
5e Duets/
Dec 1
I'm ready to begin Dragons of Despair with Johannes and Kessa! I've reviewed 
the excellent summary - your characters are well-equipped, fully rested, and 
have just heard intriguing rumors about dragons returning to the world.
Before we dive in, let me quickly check the Dragons of Despair module to 
ensure I adapt it properly for your one-on-one campaign.
Searched project for "Dragons of Despair DL1 adventure overview structure"
2 results
Perfect! I have the module. Now let me craft an engaging opening that honors 
your character dynamics and adapts this classic adventure for solo play.
 
DRAGONS OF DESPAIR
A One-on-One D&D Adventure
 
The autumn afternoon sun slants through the windows of the Rusty 
Tankard Inn, painting the worn floorboards in shades of amber. You and 
Kessa have claimed a corner table near the fireplace, nursing ales while the 
common room buzzes with the usual midday chatter-until a weathered 
merchant stumbles through the door.
His cloak is mud-stained, his eyes wide. "Dragons!" he gasps to the bartender. 
"I saw them-massive winged shadows over the mountains to the east. And 
soldiers... an entire army marching south, burning villages!"
The room falls silent. Then someone laughs. "Dragons? Old man's had too 
much sun."
"Fairy tales," another patron scoffs.
But the merchant's hands shake as he accepts a drink. "Mock me if you will. 
But refugees are streaming down the Haven Road. Something terrible is 
happening in the northern lands."
Kessa leans closer to you, her voice pitched low beneath the renewed tavern 
noise. "Johannes... you thinking what I'm thinking?" Her amber eyes gleam 
with that particular mix of concern and opportunity you've come to recognize. 
"We've got a year before your next... appointment. And if dragons are actually 
returning to the world..." She lets the implication hang.
The merchant slumps at the bar, still muttering about "armies" and 
"dragonmen in the service of some Dragonlord."
What do you do?
bash cat > /tmp/adventure_summary.txt << 'EOF' JOHANNES & KESSA - READY FOR DRAGONS OF DESPAIR ===========================================
===================== CHARACTERS: JOHANNES CONSTANTINIUS - Level 5 Fiend Warlock - HP: 39/39 | AC: 14 - Pact: Bound to a demon, must provide yearly t
PASTED
Before we begin, I have really enjoyed this interface and interaction. Are there 
any elements to the game play that could be refined or improved (such as 
dice rolling) that could be more efficient, but retain the flavor of yesterday's 
experience? I want to be judicious with my token usage as I need access to AI 
interfaces for business use as well...
Dec 1
Great question! Let me suggest some streamlined approaches that maintain 
narrative quality while being more token-efficient:
Efficiency Improvements:
1. Dice Rolling - Consolidated Format Instead of:
"Roll for initiative! (d20 + DEX modifier)"
You roll: 15 + 2 = 17
Kessa rolls: 12 + 3 = 15
Use:
?? Initiative: Johannes 17, Kessa 15, Enemies 12
2. Combat Rounds - Batched Actions Rather than describing every swing 
separately, I can present full rounds:
**Round 1:** You blast the leader with Eldritch Blast (hit, 12 damage). 
Kessa flanks and sneak attacks (hit, 18 damage - bloodied!). 
Enemy retaliates at you (miss).
3. Skill Checks - Assume Competence For routine tasks where you have 
proficiency, I'll just narrate success unless it's a critical moment. Only roll 
when failure is interesting.
4. Exploration - Faster Pacing I can summarize less critical areas: "You 
search three abandoned rooms-nothing valuable, but you find a safe route 
forward" rather than describing each room.
5. When You Want Detail Just say "slow down" or "describe this more" 
when something feels important!
Would you like me to use this streamlined approach for Dragons of 
Despair? I can always add more detail for dramatic moments (boss fights, 
key discoveries, tense negotiations).
What's your preference?
No, the detail is where the fun is. Would it be less taxing if I were to be doing 
all the rolling in real life based on your guidance?
Dec 1
Ah, that's a brilliant solution! Yes, you doing the rolling would be 
significantly more efficient and actually enhances the experience. Here's 
why:
Your Rolling = Better Gameplay
Token Savings:
*	Eliminates my dice simulation code
*	Removes the back-and-forth of "I roll this, here's the result"
*	Lets me focus tokens on narrative, tactics, and world-building
Better Immersion:
*	Physical dice feel more "real" and engaging
*	You control the randomness (that satisfying clatter!)
*	Instant feedback - no waiting for me to generate results
How We'll Do It:
I'll prompt you like:
The draconian captain lunges at you with his shortsword!
? Roll a d20 for your AC (you're AC 14)

Or:

You attempt to deceive the guard.
? Deception check: d20 + CHA modifier
You respond with:
"I rolled a 16"
or
"Natural 20!"
or  
"Ugh, rolled a 3..."
I immediately narrate the outcome.
This keeps all the tactical depth and narrative richness while being much more 
token-efficient. Plus, there's something viscerally satisfying about physically 
rolling when your character's life is on the line!
Ready to start Dragons of Despair with this approach? I'll handle all 
the storytelling, tactics, and world-building-you bring the dice and the 
decisions!
Yes, but let's put a pin in it since I don't have my dice with me at the moment. 
And, I need to get some actual work done.
Dec 1
Perfect! That makes total sense. We'll pause here and pick up Dragons of 
Despair when you have your dice ready and time to properly dive in.
When you're ready to continue: Just drop in with "I've got my dice, let's 
start Dragons of Despair!" and we'll jump right into the Rusty Tankard Inn 
with Johannes and Kessa investigating those dragon rumors.
Your summary document has everything we need to pick up seamlessly-
characters are prepped, equipment is sorted, and the adventure hook is 
planted.
Good luck with your work! Johannes and Kessa will be waiting. ??
Not ready to play yet, but I want you to consider if there will be an element 
pointing toward Johannes's predicament included in this adventure. 
Remember, there is no expectation that there is a connection, and if there is, 
don't tell me. But process this question so it figures into your planning as the 
DM.
Dec 1
Processing as DM...
Excellent question. Let me think through this systematically:
The Core Tension:
Johannes's curse is his primary character motivation - he needs powerful 
artifacts annually, and there's that tantalizing hint: "Every curse has a 
loophole. Even yours."
Adventure Design Considerations:
Dragons of Despair involves:
*	Ancient ruins (Xak Tsaroth - a sunken city)
*	Powerful religious artifacts (the Disks of Mishakal)
*	Dragons returning to the world
*	A cult serving a "Dragonlord"
*	Lost divine magic being rediscovered
Potential Thematic Connections:
*	Fiendish pacts vs. divine power
*	Ancient knowledge about curses and their breaking
*	Powerful artifacts that might interest Johannes's patron OR provide 
clues about loopholes
*	NPCs with esoteric knowledge about contracts with otherworldly 
entities
My DM Approach:
I'll keep Johannes's curse as a living background element - not forced, but 
organically woven in where it makes narrative sense. If the adventure contains 
elements that could provide insight, I'll present them naturally through:
*	NPC dialogue that might hint at relevant lore
*	Ancient texts or inscriptions Johannes might notice
Again, don't tell me. As the PC, I don't want to see your thinking, as this 
reveals major elements of the game!
Dec 1
You're absolutely right - my apologies!
Closes DM notebook
Understood. I've processed your question and will handle it appropriately 
behind the screen. You'll discover what you discover through play.
See you when you've got your dice ready! ??
Got my dice; let's go!
Dec 1
Excellent! Let's begin!
 
DRAGONS OF DESPAIR
A One-on-One D&D Adventure
 
The autumn afternoon sun slants through the windows of the Rusty 
Tankard Inn, painting the worn floorboards in shades of amber. You and 
Kessa have claimed a corner table near the fireplace, nursing ales while the 
common room buzzes with the usual midday chatter-until a weathered 
merchant stumbles through the door.
His cloak is mud-stained, his eyes wide. "Dragons!" he gasps to the bartender. 
"I saw them-massive winged shadows over the mountains to the east. And 
soldiers... an entire army marching south, burning villages!"
The room falls silent. Then someone laughs. "Dragons? Old man's had too 
much sun."
"Fairy tales," another patron scoffs.
But the merchant's hands shake as he accepts a drink. "Mock me if you will. 
But refugees are streaming down the Haven Road. Something terrible is 
happening in the northern lands."
Kessa leans closer to you, her voice pitched low beneath the renewed tavern 
noise. "Johannes... you thinking what I'm thinking?" Her amber eyes gleam 
with that particular mix of concern and opportunity you've come to recognize. 
"We've got a year before your next... appointment. And if dragons are actually 
returning to the world..." She lets the implication hang.
The merchant slumps at the bar, still muttering about "armies" and 
"dragonmen in the service of some Dragonlord."
What do you do?
Offer the man a seat on the bench next to you and order some of Otik's spicy 
potatoes to help calm the man's nerves while you hear out the rest of his story 
away from prying eyes and scoffing laughs.
Dec 1
The merchant looks at you with grateful, haunted eyes and shuffles over to 
your table, sinking onto the bench with a heavy sigh. He clutches his mug like 
a lifeline.
"Bless you," he mutters. "Bless you both."
The bartender brings over a steaming plate of Otik's famous spiced potatoes - 
crispy, golden, with just enough heat to warm the bones. The merchant takes 
one, chews mechanically, then seems to remember he's hungry and eats more 
earnestly.
After a few moments, his hands steady somewhat. He glances around the 
common room - the other patrons have returned to their own conversations, 
dismissing him as a sun-addled fool.
"My name's Theron," he says quietly. "I'm a textile merchant - or I was. Had a 
route through the northern villages, up past Gateway. Three weeks ago, 
everything changed." He takes a long pull from his ale.
"An army came down from the mountains. Not just men - things. Walked like 
men, but... wrong. Scaled, with wings. They wore the armor of soldiers but 
their faces..." He shudders. "Reptilian. Dragon-men, if such things can exist."
Kessa exchanges a glance with you, her expression sharpening with interest.
"They're burning villages, taking prisoners. Anyone who resists is killed. And 
above them-" Theron's voice drops to barely a whisper, "-I saw it with my 
own eyes. A massive red dragon, circling over the ruins of Que-Shu village. 
Real as you and me."
He pulls a small, scorched piece of cloth from his pocket - fine blue fabric with 
intricate embroidery, now half-burned. "This was from Que-Shu's temple. I 
grabbed it from the ruins when I fled."
"They're serving someone called the Dragonlord. That's all I know. That's all 
I want to know." He looks between you both. "You two don't look like fools 
who'd dismiss an old merchant's warnings. If you've got any sense, you'll head 
west, not east."
What do you do?
Is there anyone left behind that might be able to give us aid or direction once 
we get closer. We need to see this for ourselves.
Dec 1
Theron's eyes widen slightly. "You're actually going to investigate?" He studies 
your face, then nods slowly, as if recognizing something in your expression - 
the look of someone who doesn't run from trouble.
He thinks for a moment, chewing another potato. "There might be someone... 
The refugees I passed on the Haven Road - they were heading to a town called 
Solace, about two days' travel east from here. It's built in the trees, of all 
things. Houses suspended in the branches of enormous vallenwood trees. 
Harder to burn, I suppose."
He leans forward. "The refugees said there's an inn there - the Inn of the Last 
Home - where survivors are gathering. If anyone knows what's really 
happening, it'd be them. They've seen it firsthand."
Kessa taps her fingers on the table thoughtfully. "And this Que-Shu village you 
mentioned - where the dragon was spotted?"
"Northeast of Solace, in the foothills," Theron says. "But it's ash now. Nothing 
left but rubble and..." he swallows hard, "...bodies. The dragon-men left it as a 
warning."
He pushes the scorched temple cloth toward you. "Take this. Show it to the 
refugees in Solace. They'll know you've been where I've been, that you're 
taking this seriously. Might help them trust you."
The scorched blue temple cloth - evidence of Que-Shu's destruction
Kessa looks at you. "Solace first, then? Gather intelligence before we walk into 
whatever this is?"
What do you do?
Nothing keeping us here. Toss a couple of coins on the table to cover our tab 
and whatever the old man might consume tonight and head out on the road.
Dec 1
You drop a handful of silver on the table - more than enough for your drinks, 
the potatoes, and to keep Theron comfortable for the evening. The old 
merchant nods gratefully, tucking the coins away.
"Safe travels," he murmurs. "And... thank you for listening. I was starting to 
think I'd gone mad."
Kessa drains the last of her ale and stands, adjusting her rapier at her hip. 
"Come on, Johannes. Daylight's burning and we've got ground to cover."
 
You collect your gear from your room and set out on the Haven Road, 
heading east. The afternoon sun is still high enough to give you several hours 
of travel before dusk.
The road is well-maintained here, wide enough for merchant wagons. Autumn 
leaves crunch under your boots - gold and crimson from the surrounding 
forest. For the first hour, it's almost peaceful.
Then you start seeing them.
Refugees.
At first, just a few - a family with a handcart piled high with salvaged 
belongings. Then more. Small groups, some injured, all with that same hollow 
look in their eyes. They're heading west, away from whatever they've fled. 
Most don't meet your gaze as you pass going the opposite direction.
One elderly woman stops, gripping your arm. "Turn back," she rasps. "Death 
flies on wings in the east. Turn back while you can."
Kessa gently helps you disengage, and you continue on.
As the sun begins its descent toward the horizon, you crest a hill and see 
Solace in the distance - perhaps another hour's walk. And it's exactly as 
Theron described: an entire town built into the branches of massive 
vallenwood trees, connected by rope bridges and wooden walkways. Smoke 
rises from chimneys high in the canopy.
But something else catches your eye. Kessa sees it too, her hand moving 
instinctively to her crossbow.
On the road ahead, perhaps 300 feet distant, a group of robed figures is 
pulling a large cart westward. Their movements are strange - too rhythmic, too 
coordinated. And those robes... they seem to be concealing something bulky 
beneath.
? Perception check: Roll d20 + your Wisdom modifier
What do you do?
When posting modifier references, could you include those, since I don't have 
them at hand?
Dec 1
Absolutely! Good call. Let me include those going forward.
? Perception check: Roll d20 + 1 (your Wisdom modifier is +1)
What's your roll?
Ouch! 2.
Dec 1
From this distance
Correction - 3, it wasn't a nat 1.
Dec 1
Total: 4 (3 + 1)
From this distance, you can't make out much detail. The robed figures 
continue their rhythmic march, pulling the cart westward. They're still a good 
300 feet away, and the afternoon shadows make it hard to discern specifics.
Kessa, however, narrows her eyes. Her rogue's instincts are sharper. 
"Johannes... something's off about them. The way they move - it's not natural. 
And those robes are bulky. Like they're hiding something."
She glances at you. "Could be nothing. Could be exactly what we came to 
investigate." Her hand stays near her crossbow. "We keep walking toward 
Solace, we'll pass right by them. Or we could hang back, let them move on 
first. Your call."
The robed figures haven't noticed you yet - they're focused on their cart and 
the road ahead.
The sun is getting lower. You've got maybe an hour of good daylight left before 
dusk settles in.
What do you do?
Hide in the woods and let them pass.
Dec 1
"Smart," Kessa murmurs, and you both slip off the road into the treeline.
The underbrush is thick with autumn growth, and the fading light helps 
conceal you. You crouch behind a fallen log about twenty feet from the road, 
Kessa beside you.
? Stealth check: Roll d20 + 2 (your Dexterity modifier)
What's your roll?
11.
Dec 1
Total: 13
Kessa rolls better - she seems to melt into the shadows, completely invisible. 
You're well-hidden, though a trained eye might spot you if they were actively 
searching.
The robed figures draw closer, their cart wheels creaking on the cobblestones. 
As they approach, you can hear them now - a low, guttural chanting in a 
language you don't recognize. It has an almost hissing quality to it.
Now that they're within 60 feet or so, you can see more clearly:
There are eight of them, moving in perfect unison. Their robes are heavy 
and concealing, but you notice something disturbing - their feet. Clawed, 
reptilian feet peek out from beneath the robes with each step. And the bulk 
under those robes... you catch glimpses of what might be wings, bound tightly 
against their bodies.
The cart itself is covered with a tarp, but whatever's underneath is large and 
makes occasional scraping sounds against the wood.
One of the figures raises its head slightly as they pass your position - you catch 
a glimpse of a scaled, draconian face beneath the hood. Not human. Not even 
close.
Kessa's hand tightens on her crossbow, but she doesn't move. She's waiting to 
see what you do.
They're passing directly in front of your position now, maybe 25 feet away. In 
another minute, they'll be past you and continuing west.
What do you do?
Quick side note: I have read the Dragonlance books, so I know the general 
plot line of this adventure. That being the case, please feel free to alter the 
storyline so it isn't so predictable if possible.
Continue to hide and take cover behind trees if possible.
Dec 1
(Noted! I'll weave in some surprises and alterations while keeping the core 
adventure structure. Thanks for letting me know!)
 
You press yourself flatter against the log, and Kessa does the same. The 
draconian creatures - for that's clearly what they are - continue their westward 
march, their chanting never wavering.
As they pass, one of them suddenly stops. The others halt immediately, like 
puppets whose strings went taut all at once.
The one who stopped tilts its head, sniffing the air. From your hiding spot, you 
see its forked tongue flick out between reptilian lips.
It hisses something to the others in that guttural language. Two of them begin 
to turn toward the treeline where you're hidden.
Then, from further up the road toward Solace, you hear voices - human voices, 
getting closer. A group of travelers, by the sound of it, coming from the town.
The draconians immediately pull their hoods lower and resume their march, 
picking up speed. Whatever they are, they don't want to be seen by those 
approaching travelers. Within moments, they've rounded a bend in the road 
and disappeared westward.
Kessa lets out a slow breath. "That was close. They definitely smelled 
something." She looks at you. "Those are the 'dragon-men' Theron was talking 
about. And they're trying to pass as human travelers."
The new voices grow closer - you can see them now. Three people, civilian 
clothes, carrying packs. Refugees, probably, heading away from Solace.
What do you do?
Spy on them for a moment, maybe insight and investigation checks? Why 
would the dragonmen seek to avoid their attention, especially considering 
there were 8 of them.
Dec 1
Good thinking. You stay hidden and observe as the three refugees pass by your 
position, heading west.
? Insight check: Roll d20 + 1 (Wisdom modifier)
What's your roll?
19
Dec 1
Total: 20 - Excellent!
As you watch the three refugees trudge past, something clicks into place. The 
draconians didn't avoid them out of fear - eight armed dragon-men could 
easily handle three tired civilians. They avoided them because they're trying to 
stay hidden. Operating in secret.
Theron said there was an army in the north, burning villages openly. But these 
draconians are sneaking along the roads in disguise, moving west away from 
the conflict zone. That's reconnaissance. Or infiltration.
You glance at the direction they went - back toward the town you just left. 
Toward the communities that don't believe dragons have returned, that are 
laughing off the warnings as fairy tales.
Kessa catches your expression and whispers, "They're scouting, aren't they? 
Checking escape routes, maybe looking for something specific..." She pauses. 
"Or someone."
The refugees continue west, oblivious to what just passed them on the road.
? Investigation check: Roll d20 + 1 (Intelligence modifier) to see if 
you noticed anything else about the draconians or their cart
What's your roll?
10
Dec 1
Total: 11
You try to recall more details about the cart and the draconians, but from your 
hiding position you didn't get a clear enough look. The covered cargo, the 
specific markings on their robes - it all blurred together in those tense 
moments.
Kessa frowns thoughtfully. "That cart was heavy, whatever was in it. And those 
scraping sounds..." She shakes her head. "Could be weapons, could be 
treasure, could be captured prisoners for all we know."
The refugees have passed and continued west. The draconians are gone 
around the bend, heading back toward your starting town.
The sun is sinking lower now - maybe 45 minutes of good daylight left. Solace 
is visible in the distance, perhaps 30-40 minutes of walking ahead.
Kessa looks at you. "So... do we follow those things back west and see what 
they're up to? Or do we continue to Solace and warn people there? Because if 
those creatures are mapping out the western towns..." She doesn't need to 
finish the thought.
The Inn of the Last Home awaits in Solace, with refugees who might have 
crucial information. But those draconians are heading back toward 
unsuspecting communities.
What do you do?
Not our problem. There are too many for us to take on, and the way others 
were acting, unless Solace is completely aware, we would just get laughed at if 
we were to try and say anything.
Dec 1
You shake your head. "Eight of them, two of us. And you saw how the people 
back at the Rusty Tankard reacted to Theron. We'd just be more 'mad fools' 
talking about dragon-men."
Kessa nods grimly. "You're right. We need real information first - proof, allies, 
something concrete. Otherwise we're just shouting into the wind." She glances 
back west one more time, then stands and brushes leaves from her armor. 
"Come on. Let's get to Solace before we lose the light."
You emerge from the treeline and continue east on the Haven Road.
 
The walk to Solace takes about forty minutes. As you approach, the town 
becomes even more impressive - the vallenwood trees are massive, their 
trunks wider than houses. Staircases wind up the bark, and rope bridges 
connect platforms and buildings high in the canopy. It's both beautiful and 
practical - much harder to assault than a ground-level settlement.
The base of the largest tree holds a wide staircase leading upward. A hand-
painted sign reads: "Inn of the Last Home - All Welcome"
Even from down here, you can hear the sounds of a crowded common room 
above - voices, the clink of mugs, someone playing a flute.
As you start up the stairs, an older woman descending stops you. She's 
carrying a basket of herbs and has kind but weary eyes.
"You two look like you've traveled far. Word of advice - the inn's packed with 
refugees. Rooms are scarce, but Otik's still serving food and the fire's warm." 
She pauses. "You're heading into trouble, aren't you? I can always tell."
What do you do?
We nod. Does the old woman have any advice or suggestions about the 
trouble we might be facing? Also, is there anyone in town who is keyed in on 
local happenings, but not the town gossip? Someone sturdy and well-
respected?
Dec 1
You nod, and the woman's expression softens with a mix of respect and 
concern.
"Advice?" She sighs. "Don't trust the draconians - those dragon-men - even if 
they seem peaceful. They serve something darker than themselves." She shifts 
her basket. "And if you're looking into what happened to the northern villages, 
be careful. The survivors... they've seen things that broke them."
You ask about someone reliable - someone who knows what's happening but 
isn't just spreading tavern gossip.
The woman thinks for a moment. "You want Hederick. He's the high theocrat - 
leads the Seeker church here in Solace." She catches your expression and 
quickly adds, "Now, I know what you're thinking - clergy and all that. But 
Hederick's different. Sharp mind, keeps detailed records of everything 
happening in the region. The refugees report to him when they arrive, and he's 
been trying to organize some kind of response."
She gestures up toward the tree-town. "You'll find him at the Seeker temple, 
on the northern platform. Big building, can't miss it. He's gruff, doesn't suffer 
fools, but if you've got genuine information or questions about what's 
happening, he'll listen."
She pauses, studying you both more carefully. "Though... if you're the type 
who prefers straight answers without religious lectures, there's also Elistan. 
He's one of Hederick's acolytes, but much more approachable. Usually at the 
temple too, helping organize aid for the refugees."
Kessa glances at you. "Temple or inn first?"
What do you do?
Temple. Let's visit with Elistan and Hedrick and get a sense of how they might 
respond to the news of the scouting party we saw on the road.
Dec 1
"Temple it is," you say, and the woman nods approvingly.
"Good luck to you both. We need people willing to face this." She continues 
down the stairs, leaving you to ascend.
 
The climb up into Solace is remarkable - the stairs wind around the massive 
vallenwood trunk, and soon you're forty feet up, then sixty. Rope bridges sway 
gently between platforms, and you can see families in windows, lanterns being 
lit as dusk settles in.
You cross two bridges, following the old woman's directions, until you reach 
the northern platform. The Seeker Temple is indeed hard to miss - a 
substantial wooden structure with a peaked roof and the symbol of a flame 
carved above its entrance.
Inside, the temple is surprisingly austere. Simple wooden benches face a 
raised platform. But the walls are covered with maps, notices, and what look 
like carefully organized lists of names - refugees, perhaps, or missing persons.
Two men are in deep conversation near the platform. One is older, perhaps in 
his sixties, with iron-gray hair and a stern, weathered face. He wears elaborate 
robes that mark him as high-ranking clergy. His posture is rigid, authoritative.
The other is younger, maybe thirty-five, with gentle features and simpler 
robes. He's holding a ledger and appears to be reporting something to the 
older man, who listens with furrowed brow.
They notice you enter. The younger man offers a tentative smile. The older 
one's expression remains unreadable.
"Travelers?" the younger man asks. "I'm Elistan. This is High Theocrat 
Hederick. Are you seeking shelter, or...?" He trails off, seeming to sense you're 
here for a different reason.
What do you do?
We've heard news of strange happenings east of here and felt compelled to 
seek out what might be happening and if there is anything we might be able 
to do to help. We've seen lots of refugees on our way here, so we think we are 
heading in the right direction?
Dec 1
Hederick's eyes sharpen immediately at your words. He dismisses whatever he 
and Elistan were discussing with a wave of his hand and steps forward, 
studying you both with an assessing gaze.
"Help?" His voice is gravelly, skeptical. "Everyone wants to 'help' until they see 
what we're actually facing." But there's something in his tone - not dismissal, 
but a test. He's measuring you.
Elistan, by contrast, looks hopeful. "Please, sit." He gestures to one of the 
benches. "Any information you have, or any aid you can offer, would be 
welcome. We're... overwhelmed."
Hederick crosses his arms. "Two weeks ago, the northern villages went silent. 
Then the refugees started arriving. Que-Shu, Gateway, small settlements in 
the foothills - all destroyed or occupied by an invading force." He moves to one 
of the wall maps and taps a region northeast of Solace. "An army, led by 
someone calling himself the Dragonlord Verminaard. And his soldiers are... 
not human."
Elistan adds quietly, "The refugees call them draconians. Dragon-men. They 
seem organized, intelligent, and utterly ruthless."
Hederick turns back to you. "So before I waste time on well-meaning 
adventurers, tell me: what makes you think you can help? What have 
you actually seen, not just heard from tavern gossip?"
He's testing you - wants to know if you're serious or just thrill-seekers.
What do you do?
Give him details about the group you passed on the road just outside of town, 
as well as what you learned from Theron, but I don't mention him by name. I 
also show them the scrap of cloth from Que-Shu
Dec 1
You describe the encounter in detail - eight robed figures on the Haven Road 
heading west, their reptilian feet and bound wings barely concealed, the heavy 
cart with something scraping inside. How they moved in unison with that 
hissing chant, and most importantly, how they hid when other travelers 
approached.
"They're not just invading," you say. "They're scouting. Infiltrating westward 
while people still think dragons are fairy tales."
You produce the scorched blue temple cloth, laying it on the bench. "This is 
from Que-Shu. A merchant who barely escaped gave it to me."
Hederick's expression darkens considerably. He picks up the cloth with careful 
reverence, examining the intricate embroidery - still partially visible despite 
the fire damage.
"This is temple silk," he says quietly. "From the vestments of Que-Shu's 
priestess." His jaw tightens. "Which means their temple was destroyed. The 
old ways..." He trails off, something flickering across his face - anger, perhaps, 
or old grief.
Elistan looks stricken. "Eight of them, heading west toward the settlements 
that don't believe the threat is real. They could be anywhere by now."
Hederick sets down the cloth and fixes you with a penetrating stare. "You saw 
them and didn't engage. Smart - you'd be dead. And you came here first 
instead of spreading panic." He nods slowly. "Perhaps you're not fools after 
all."
He moves to the map wall, tracing routes with his finger. "The question is: 
what were they looking for? Intelligence on our defenses? Escape routes? 
Or..." He pauses, glancing at Elistan with an unreadable expression.
Elistan shifts uncomfortably but says nothing.
Hederick turns back to you. "If you truly want to help, I need information, not 
heroics. The refugees speak of something in Xak Tsaroth - an ancient ruined 
city to the southeast. Several survivors mentioned it before..." He stops 
himself. "Before they stopped making sense. Trauma, perhaps, or something 
worse."
What do you do?
How far is this Xak Tsaroth? Do you have information that can help us get 
there? We will scout things out and return with news of what we find if you 
can help us get there in the first place.
Dec 1
Hederick studies you for a long moment, then moves to a larger, more detailed 
map on the wall. He taps a location southeast of Solace.
"Xak Tsaroth. About three days' journey on foot through the foothills and into 
the Kharolis Mountains. It was a great city once, over three hundred years ago, 
before..." He pauses. "Before the Cataclysm. Now it's ruins, supposedly cursed. 
Most people avoid it."
Elistan steps closer, looking uncomfortable. "High Theocrat, are you certain 
we should send them there? The refugees who mentioned it were... disturbed. 
Raving about 'things in the dark' and 'the dragon's lair.'"
"Which is precisely why we need scouts who can keep their heads," Hederick 
snaps back. Then, more measured: "The draconians are interested in it. 
Multiple refugee accounts mention their patrols heading that direction. And 
one survivor - a Que-Shu woman named Goldmoon - kept repeating 
something about 'the truth buried in the fallen city' before she escaped our 
custody."
"Escaped?" Kessa asks sharply.
Hederick's expression sours. "Three days ago. We were... keeping her safe. She 
disagreed with our methods and fled during the night. Probably dead in the 
wilderness by now, unless the draconians found her first."
He pulls out a rolled parchment and spreads it on a bench - a hand-drawn 
map showing the route to Xak Tsaroth. "The Haven Road continues east past 
Solace, then branches south at Prayer's Eye Peak. Follow the southern fork 
through the foothills. You'll know Xak Tsaroth when you see it - the ruins are 
built into a massive sinkhole."
Elistan adds quietly, "We can provision you. Food, torches, rope if you need it. 
It's the least we can offer."
Hederick rolls up the map and hands it to you. "Find out what the draconians 
want in Xak Tsaroth. If there's something there worth their attention, I need 
to know what it is."
What do you do?
Accept their offer of goods, store it all in the Bag of Holding, then return to 
Otik's to see if there is shelter for the night and food before you head out into 
the wilds.
Dec 1
Hederick nods curtly. "Elistan, see to their provisions."
The younger cleric leads you to a side room where supplies are organized with 
meticulous care - clearly prepared for outfitting refugees or, apparently, 
scouts. He gathers:
*	7 days of rations (trail bread, dried meat, hard cheese)
*	4 torches
*	50 feet of hemp rope
*	2 waterskins (filled)
*	A small pouch of healing herbs
"May the light guide you," Elistan says earnestly as you pack everything into 
your Bag of Holding. "And... be careful. Whatever's happening in Xak Tsaroth, 
it's connected to something larger. I can feel it."
 
The walk back across the rope bridges to the Inn of the Last Home takes only a 
few minutes. As you climb the final staircase, the sounds of the crowded 
common room grow louder - voices, laughter mixed with worried 
conversation, the smell of cooking food and wood smoke.
The inn is built around the trunk of the largest vallenwood tree, its common 
room circular and warm. A massive fireplace dominates one wall, and the 
proprietor - a rotund, cheerful man you recognize must be Otik - is bustling 
between tables with platters of food.
Every table is packed. Refugees sit shoulder-to-shoulder with locals, and 
bedrolls are already laid out in corners. It's standing room only.
Otik spots you near the entrance and waves you over, wiping his hands on his 
apron. "Welcome, welcome! You're lucky - just had two travelers leave. I've 
got one room left. Small, but private. Ten silver for the night, includes dinner 
and breakfast."
Kessa glances at you and mouths: Worth it.
"And tonight's special," Otik continues proudly, "is my famous spiced potatoes 
with roasted venison and autumn vegetables!"
What do you do?
Order double portions for both myself and Kressa, then head to bed as soon 
as we're done. If there is only one bed, I sleep on the floor.
Dec 1
You hand over the silver and Otik beams. "Excellent! Find yourselves a spot - 
anywhere you can squeeze in - and I'll bring your food right out!"
You and Kessa manage to claim a small section of bench at a corner table, 
sharing space with a tired-looking family. Within minutes, Otik delivers two 
heaping platters - the spiced potatoes are golden and crispy, the venison 
perfectly seasoned, and the roasted root vegetables still steaming.
It's delicious. After days on the road and the tension of the evening, the hot 
meal is exactly what you need. Kessa eats with focused efficiency, occasionally 
glancing around the room at the mix of worried faces and forced cheer.
"Big day tomorrow," she says quietly between bites. "Three days to Xak 
Tsaroth, and who knows what we'll find when we get there."
You finish your meals, and Otik directs you upstairs to your room. It's small - 
barely space for the single bed, a washbasin, and a narrow window 
overlooking the rope bridges. But it's private and clean.
"Take the bed," Kessa says immediately, already pulling a blanket from her 
pack. "I've slept in worse places, and you're going to need your rest more than 
I will." She grins. "Besides, warlock beauty sleep is a real thing, right?"
She makes herself comfortable on the floor near the door - a defensive 
position, you notice. Old habits.
The sounds of the common room below slowly fade as the night deepens. 
Through the window, you can see lanterns glowing in the tree-town like 
fireflies.
 
You sleep soundly and wake refreshed. Full HP, all spell slots 
restored.
Morning light filters through the window. You can smell breakfast cooking 
downstairs - Otik's keeping his promise.
What do you do?
Eat, then head out at a brisk, but reasonable, pace.
Dec 1
You and Kessa head downstairs to find Otik already serving breakfast - thick 
porridge with honey, fresh bread, and strips of bacon. You eat quickly but well, 
fueling up for the journey ahead.
Kessa checks her gear one last time, making sure her hand crossbow is loaded 
and her rapier moves freely in its scabbard. "Three days to ruins full of 
draconians and possibly a dragon. Just another week in the life, eh 
Johannes?"
You step out onto the platform and begin your descent from Solace. The 
morning is crisp and clear, autumn sunlight painting the vallenwood leaves 
gold and red. A few early risers nod to you as you pass - the town is slowly 
waking up.
 
Back on the Haven Road, heading east now, the traffic is lighter than 
yesterday. A few merchants with guards, some locals heading to outlying 
farms. The refugee stream has thinned - most who were going to flee already 
have.
The road is well-maintained for the first few hours, winding through pleasant 
forest. Around midday, you see the landmark Hederick mentioned: Prayer's 
Eye Peak - a distinctive mountain with a split summit that does indeed look 
like a half-closed eye.
The road forks here. The main branch continues northeast toward the 
destroyed villages. The southern fork - your route - is narrower, less traveled, 
heading into the foothills.
As you're about to take the southern fork, Kessa suddenly grabs your arm and 
pulls you to a stop.
"Johannes," she whispers urgently. "Movement. In the trees ahead, near the 
fork."
? Perception check: Roll d20 + 1 (Wisdom)
What's your roll?
20
Dec 1
Total: 21 - Critical Success!
Your eyes sweep the treeline and you spot them immediately - and there 
are more than Kessa initially saw.
Hidden in the undergrowth near the southern fork: eight figures in robes, 
waiting in ambush position. Their positioning is tactical, professional. These 
aren't random bandits - they're soldiers. And even from here, you can see the 
telltale bulk under those robes, the occasional glint of scales.
Draconians. The same kind you saw yesterday, possibly even the same group.
But that's not all.
Your keen perception picks up something else: about 50 feet behind you, back 
the way you came, movement in the trees on both sides of the road. You catch 
glimpses of more robed figures emerging from concealment, moving to cut off 
your retreat.
It's a classic pincer maneuver. They've been tracking you since you left Solace, 
waiting for you to reach this isolated spot where the roads fork.
They don't know you've spotted them yet - you and Kessa haven't broken 
stride or given any indication. You have maybe 10-15 seconds before you're in 
optimal ambush range.
Kessa's hand moves subtly toward her crossbow. She's seen them too now. 
"Trapped," she breathes. "Front and back. They want us alive or they'd have 
already attacked from range."
The southern fork leads into thicker forest - more cover but also easier to be 
surrounded. The northeastern road is more open. The forest on either side 
might offer escape routes, but you'd be running blind.
What do you do?
They are likely to be as blind as we are, head into the trees and seek cover.
Dec 1
"Move!" you hiss, and both of you bolt for the treeline to the east - 
perpendicular to the trap, the direction they'd least expect.
? Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to move quickly through rough 
terrain: Roll d20 + 2
What's your roll?
7
Dec 1
Total: 9
You crash into the underbrush, branches whipping at your face and cloak. 
Your foot catches on a root and you stumble, losing precious seconds. Behind 
you, angry hissing voices erupt - they've realized their ambush failed.
Kessa is more nimble, already ten feet ahead and finding better paths through 
the dense forest. She glances back, slowing slightly to keep you in sight.
"They're coming!" she calls.
You can hear them now - heavy footfalls, the sound of robes being torn away. 
No more pretense. A horn blasts twice - a signal.
The forest here is thick with autumn undergrowth and fallen logs. Visibility is 
limited to about 30-40 feet in any direction. You're currently about 50 feet 
from the road, moving deeper into the woods.
Behind you, perhaps 40 feet back, you hear guttural voices coordinating. 
They're spreading out, trying to flank you through the trees.
Kessa drops behind a thick oak, hand crossbow ready. "We can try to lose 
them, or we make a stand while we've got cover. Your call - but decide fast!"
? If you want to keep running, make another Dexterity check ? If 
you want to find a defensive position and prepare for combat, 
make a Perception check to find good terrain
What do you do?
Cast Minor Illusion - the noise of us passing through the brush in the opposite 
direction of where we are headed, then continue fleeing. 11 on a Dex check
Dec 1
Total: 13
Clever! You gesture quickly, and the sound of crashing footsteps and breaking 
branches erupts from the underbrush about 30 feet to your left - 
moving away from your actual path.
The effect is immediate. You hear the draconians' pursuit shift direction, 
several of them breaking off to chase the phantom noise. Angry hissing and 
shouted commands in their guttural language echo through the trees.
With the distraction working, you and Kessa move more carefully now, using 
the cover and putting distance between yourselves and the pursuit. You weave 
through dense thickets, cross a small stream, and climb over a rocky 
outcropping.
After several tense minutes, the sounds of pursuit fade. Your illusion bought 
you crucial time and confusion.
You're both breathing hard. Kessa leans against a tree, listening intently. "I 
think... I think we lost them." She grins despite the situation. "Nice thinking 
with that spell."
You're now deep in the forest, perhaps a quarter mile from the road. The 
terrain is hilly and heavily wooded. You can still see Prayer's Eye Peak in the 
distance through the trees, which gives you your bearings - south and east 
toward Xak Tsaroth.
Kessa catches her breath. "They were definitely waiting for us specifically. 
Someone in Solace told them we were coming, or they've been watching the 
temple. Either way..." She checks her weapons. "We're going to have company 
all the way to those ruins."
What do you do?
Let's stick to the woods. It will slow us down and limit our ability to see anyone 
coming, but walking the roads is just an invitation to a fight... Thoughts, 
Kressa?
Dec 1
Kessa nods, still scanning the forest behind you. "Agreed. The roads are death 
traps now - they'll have more ambushes set up, guaranteed. At least in the 
woods we can use stealth and terrain to our advantage."
She pulls out Hederick's map, orienting it with Prayer's Eye Peak. "If we keep 
the peak on our left and head southeast through the forest, we should 
eventually hit the foothills. It'll add maybe half a day to our journey, but better 
slow than dead."
She folds the map away. "We'll need to be smart about this though. Travel 
during the day when we can see threats coming, find defensible places to rest. 
No fires - smoke would give us away." She glances at you. "Your patron going 
to have opinions about us skulking through the wilderness?"
It's said lightly, but there's genuine concern there. She knows the curse, knows 
that danger often follows you in ways beyond normal adventuring risks.
"Come on," she says, taking point. "Let's put more distance between us and 
those things before they regroup. Stay sharp - if they're this organized, they 
might have scouts ranging through these woods too."
The forest stretches ahead - dense, shadowy, and filled with the rustling of 
leaves.
? Survival check to navigate through wilderness: Roll d20 + 1 
(Wisdom)
What's your roll?
20
Dec 1
Total: 21 - Excellent!
Your instincts in the wilderness prove exceptional. You spot game trails that 
run southeast, notice the way moss grows on the trees indicating direction, 
and read the landscape like a map. What could have been exhausting, 
directionless bushwhacking becomes efficient travel.
You find a deer path that winds through the densest cover, providing 
concealment while making good time. When the terrain opens up dangerously, 
you identify alternate routes through ravines and thick undergrowth. You even 
spot a small spring where you refill your waterskins with clear, cold water.
Kessa follows your lead, impressed. "Didn't know you had woodcraft in you, 
Johannes. City warlock with forest skills - you're full of surprises."
The day passes without incident. By late afternoon, the terrain begins to shift - 
the forest gives way to rockier, hillier ground. You're entering the foothills 
proper. Prayer's Eye Peak is behind you now, and ahead the land rises toward 
the Kharolis Mountains.
As the sun begins its descent, you spot an excellent campsite: a small rocky 
overhang that provides shelter on three sides, with a clear view of the 
approach and thick forest at your back for escape if needed. Defensible, 
hidden, and dry.
Kessa surveys it approvingly. "Perfect. We'll camp here tonight, no fire like I 
said. Cold camp, but we've got the rations from the temple."
She settles in, arranging her bedroll where she can watch the approach. As you 
both eat a quiet dinner of trail bread and dried meat, she speaks softly.
"Tomorrow we'll be in the real foothills. Another day, maybe day and a half to 
Xak Tsaroth if your navigation stays this good." She pauses. "You should rest 
first. I'll take first watch."
Do you rest, or is there anything you want to do/discuss first?
Nope. Let's get some rest.
Dec 1
You settle into your bedroll under the rocky overhang. The night is cool but 
not uncomfortable, and exhaustion from the day's flight and travel pulls you 
toward sleep quickly.
Kessa sits with her back against the stone, crossbow across her lap, alert and 
watchful. The last thing you see before sleep takes you is her silhouette against 
the darkening sky, ever the guardian.
 
The night passes uneventfully. You wake refreshed.
Morning light filters through the trees, pale and misty. Kessa is already up, 
having woken you for the tail end of watch a few hours before dawn. She's 
chewing on some trail bread and studying the terrain ahead.
"Good morning," she says quietly. "Nothing stirred all night except some deer 
and an owl. I think we really did lose them yesterday."
She gestures southeast, where the land continues to rise. "We're solidly in the 
foothills now. According to the map, if we keep this heading we should reach 
Xak Tsaroth by tomorrow afternoon, evening at the latest."
You both pack up quickly, leaving no trace of your camp. The forest here is 
thinner, with more rocky outcroppings and clearings. The trees are starting to 
thin as altitude increases.
As you set out, Kessa suddenly holds up a hand. She's spotted something.
On the ground ahead, barely visible: tracks. Clawed footprints in a patch of 
soft earth, relatively fresh. Several sets, heading in the same direction you're 
going - southeast toward Xak Tsaroth.
She kneels, examining them. "Draconian. At least four, maybe five. Passed 
through here yesterday, probably."
What do you do?
Investigate/nature check on the prints and the environment to see if there are 
safer routes that are likely to avoid running into this group.
Dec 1
? Investigation check: Roll d20 + 1 (Intelligence)
What's your roll?
14
Dec 1
Total: 15
You study the tracks carefully, then survey the surrounding terrain with a 
tactical eye.
The draconian tracks follow the most direct route toward Xak Tsaroth - 
staying in valleys and low ground where travel is easiest. There are four 
distinct sets of prints, all heading southeast with purpose. They're not 
patrolling or searching - they're moving toward a specific destination.
Looking at the landscape, you spot a safer alternative: a ridge line about 200 
feet higher in elevation that runs parallel to the valley the draconians are 
using. It would be harder climbing, slower going, but it offers several 
advantages:
*	Higher ground means you can see approaching threats
*	The rocky terrain would hide your tracks better
*	You'd be able to spot the draconians below if they're still in the valley
*	Less likely to have patrols - they seem to prefer the easier paths
The downside: it'll add several hours to your travel time, and the climbing will 
be more taxing.
Kessa follows your gaze to the ridge. "Smart. We take the high road, literally. 
Harder work but way less chance of walking into another ambush." She 
adjusts her pack straps. "I vote for slow and alive over fast and dead."
She grins. "Lead on, mountain guide."
? Athletics check to navigate the climb to the ridge: Roll d20 + 0 
(Strength)
What's your roll?
8?
Dec 1
Total: 8
The climb is rough. The rocky slope is steeper than it looked, with loose scree 
that slides beneath your boots. You scramble up, grabbing at roots and rocks, 
your studded leather armor feeling heavier with each step.
About halfway up, your hand finds a loose stone and you slip backward, 
sliding several feet before catching yourself. Your palms are scraped, and 
you're breathing hard.
Kessa, more experienced at this sort of thing, reaches down to help haul you 
up the last section. "Easy there. Take your time."
Eventually you both make it to the ridge, but it's taken a toll. You're winded 
and your muscles ache.
? Take 2 points of exhaustion damage (you're now at 37/39 HP) 
from the rough climb and strain
The view from up here, however, is worth it. You can see for miles - the valley 
below winding southeast, the forested foothills spreading out behind you, and 
in the far distance, a dark smudge that might be Xak Tsaroth.
More importantly, you can see movement in the valley below. Tiny figures - 
four of them - moving in formation along the easier path. The draconians 
whose tracks you found.
Kessa crouches beside you, catching her breath. "Well, we know where they 
are, at least. And they definitely don't know where we are." She offers you a 
waterskin. "Let's keep this height advantage as long as we can."
The ridge path ahead looks somewhat easier - less climbing, more hiking.
What do you do?
Short rest then move forward.
Dec 1
"Good call," Kessa agrees, settling against a sun-warmed boulder. "We push 
too hard now, we'll be useless when we actually need to fight."
You both take an hour to rest, eating some rations and letting your muscles 
recover. The autumn sun is pleasant at this elevation, and the view lets you 
keep an eye on the valley below. The draconian patrol continues southeast, 
eventually disappearing around a bend.
? Short Rest: You can roll hit dice if you want to recover HP, or 
just rest. You recover half your Warlock spell slots (1 spell slot 
restored). Current HP: 37/39
Do you want to spend any hit dice to heal? (You have 5d8 hit dice 
available)
1 HD. How many spell slots have I used?
Dec 1
? Roll 1d8 + your Constitution modifier (+2) for healing
What's your roll?
And to answer your question: You've used 1 spell slot (Minor Illusion was a 
cantrip, so the only spell slot used was during your short rest recovery, which 
gave you back 1 slot).
So currently you have:
*	2/2 Warlock spell slots (3rd level)
*	All your cantrips available
5
Dec 1
Total healing: 7 HP (5 + 2 CON modifier)
Current HP: 39/39 - Fully healed!
You feel much better after the rest - muscles loosened, scrapes from the climb 
already fading. Kessa stretches and shoulders her pack.
"Alright, let's move. We've got good daylight left and that ridge path looks 
manageable."
 
The afternoon travels much more smoothly. The ridge path is relatively level, 
winding through scrub pines and rocky outcrops. Your elevated position 
continues to provide excellent visibility - you can see the valley route the 
draconians took, and there's no sign of additional patrols.
As the sun begins its descent toward evening, the terrain ahead changes 
dramatically. The ridge you're on begins to descend, and you can see why:
Ahead, perhaps two miles distant, the land simply... drops away. A massive 
sinkhole, easily a quarter-mile across, opens in the earth like a wound. Even 
from here you can see the hints of ancient structures clinging to the sides - 
crumbling towers, broken aqueducts, stone buildings in various states of 
collapse.
Xak Tsaroth.
Kessa stops beside you, staring. "Gods above. The whole city just... fell into the 
earth?"
The sinkhole is wreathed in mist that rises from below, obscuring the bottom. 
You can hear the distant sound of waterfalls echoing up from the depths.
As you watch, you see movement - tiny winged shapes circling above the ruins. 
Too far to identify, but given everything you know...
"Draconians," Kessa says grimly. "Probably guards. And who knows what else 
is down there."
The sun will set in perhaps two hours.
What do you do?
Look for someplace safe to spend the night and scout the location, looking 
specifically for entrance points away from activity, etc. Also, charting patrol 
routes, etc. and looking for signs of activity within the city itself.
Dec 1
Smart approach. You and Kessa spend the remaining daylight searching for 
both a campsite and intelligence on Xak Tsaroth.
? Perception check to scout the area: Roll d20 + 1 (Wisdom)
What's your roll?
1
Dec 1
Total: 2 - Critical Failure
In your focus on watching the distant sinkhole and the flying shapes, you fail 
to notice the terrain immediately around you. Your boot catches on a root and 
you stumble forward, dislodging several loose rocks that clatter noisily down 
the slope.
The sound echoes in the evening stillness.
Kessa freezes, her hand shooting to your arm. "Johannes-"
From somewhere below and to your left - maybe 100 feet away, down the 
slope you just made noise on - you hear voices. Guttural, hissing. Draconian.
And they definitely heard that.
"Move!" Kessa hisses urgently, pulling you back toward a cluster of large 
boulders about 30 feet behind you. "They're coming to investigate!"
You can hear them now, climbing up the slope toward the source of the noise. 
At least two, maybe three voices calling to each other in their harsh language.
You and Kessa scramble behind the boulders. It's not perfect cover - if they 
search thoroughly, they'll find you. But in the fading light, you might have a 
chance.
? Stealth check: Roll d20 + 2 (Dexterity)
Kessa rolls her own stealth - she's doing better, pressing herself into a shadow 
between two rocks.
What's your roll?
18
Dec 1
Total: 20 - Excellent!
You press yourself into a narrow crevice between the boulders, using your 
dark cloak to blend with the shadows. Your breathing slows, controlled. 
Despite the stumble that gave you away, you've recovered brilliantly.
The draconians crest the ridge perhaps forty feet from your position. In the 
dimming light, you can see them clearly now:
Three Baaz draconians - man-sized, with bronze-colored scales, leathery 
wings folded against their backs, and shortswords at their hips. They're 
scanning the area where you made the noise, speaking to each other in low, 
suspicious tones.
One of them spots the disturbed rocks and hisses something to the others. 
They spread out, beginning to search. One moves toward your boulder cluster.
Kessa is utterly still, invisible in her hiding spot. The draconian searching your 
area is now only fifteen feet away, peering into the shadows between rocks.
Its reptilian eyes sweep the area... and pass right over you. Your stillness and 
the failing light work in your favor. After a tense moment, it grunts and turns 
away, calling something to its companions.
They confer briefly, then one points back down toward the sinkhole. 
Apparently deciding it was just a rockslide or animal, they begin to withdraw.
But they're not leaving the area entirely - they're taking up a patrol route along 
the ridge, about 200 feet from your position. Guarding the approach to Xak 
Tsaroth.
After several more tense minutes, they settle into their patrol pattern, moving 
back and forth but not coming closer to your hiding spot.
Kessa breathes out slowly beside you. "That was close," she whispers. "But 
now we know - they've got sentries on the rim."
What do you do?
Can we still see the city without drawing their attention?
Dec 1
? Stealth check to carefully reposition for a better view: Roll d20 + 
2 (Dexterity)
What's your roll?
15
Dec 1
Total: 17
You and Kessa move with painstaking care, shifting position within the 
boulder cluster until you find a gap that provides a view down into the 
sinkhole while keeping you concealed from the patrolling draconians.
The view is breathtaking and unsettling in equal measure.
Xak Tsaroth spreads below you like a shattered dream. The ancient city 
clings to the sides of the massive sinkhole in tiers - crumbling stone buildings, 
broken temples, shattered plazas connected by precarious staircases and 
bridges. Some structures have collapsed entirely into the mist-shrouded 
depths below. You estimate the sinkhole is at least 500 feet deep, maybe more.
From your vantage point, you can make out several key features:
Upper Rim (where you are): Patrol routes with draconian sentries spaced 
around the perimeter - you count at least three more groups besides the one 
nearby.
Upper Tiers (200-300 feet down): Partially intact buildings. You see 
flickering torchlight in some windows - definitely occupied. Movement 
suggests more draconians, possibly a command post or barracks.
Middle Tiers (300-400 feet down): Increasingly ruined. Several 
waterfalls cascade from broken aqueducts, creating the mist. Less visible 
activity here.
The Depths (400+ feet down): Shrouded in thick mist. You can barely 
make out massive structural ruins - what might have been the city's grand 
plaza or temple district. The mist occasionally swirls, and you glimpse... 
something large moving down there. Something that glints black in the fading 
light.
Kessa's breath catches. "Johannes... in the depths. Did you see-?"
A low, rumbling sound echoes up from below. Not quite a roar, but deep and 
resonant. Primal.
"Dragon," she whispers.
What do you do?
Before we can do anything else, we need to either reposition away from this 
patrol or figure out some way to take them out of the equation. Thoughts, 
Kressa?
Dec 1
Kessa chews her lip, thinking tactically. She watches the patrol for another 
minute, tracking their movement pattern.
"Three of them, predictable route. Takes them about five minutes to complete 
their circuit." She glances at you. "We could try to take them quietly - ambush 
when they're at the furthest point from the other patrols. But there's risk. If 
even one of them makes noise or gets off a warning, every draconian on this 
rim comes running."
She shifts slightly, pointing along the ridge away from the sinkhole. 
"Alternative: we backtrack about a quarter mile, find that campsite away from 
their patrol routes, and wait for full dark. Then we look for a way down into 
the sinkhole from a less-guarded section. These patrols are watching the 
obvious approach - there might be other ways down they're not covering as 
heavily."
She looks at you seriously. "Your call, but here's my thinking: we're scouts, not 
an army. Our job is to get in, find out what they're after, and get back to 
Hederick with information. The fewer fights we pick, the better our chances."
She pauses. "That said, if you think we can take them clean and quiet, I'm with 
you. I just want to make sure we're thinking it through."
The patrol is currently at the far end of their route, about 200 feet away. The 
light is fading fast - maybe 30 minutes until full darkness.
What do you do?
Let's backtrack. Again, we're here as eyes, not fists.
Dec 1
Kessa nods approvingly. "Smart. Let's move while they're at the far end of 
their route."
You both ease out of the boulder cluster, moving low and quiet, retreating the 
way you came. Once you're a safe distance from the patrol route - about a 
quarter mile back along the ridge - you start searching for a proper campsite.
? Survival check to find a good camping spot: Roll d20 + 1 
(Wisdom)
What's your roll?
11
Dec 1
Total: 12
You find a serviceable spot - a small depression surrounded by scrub brush 
and a few twisted pines, about fifty yards off the ridge line. It's not perfect, but 
it provides concealment from casual observation and breaks up your 
silhouette. The ground is relatively flat and sheltered from wind.
Kessa examines it and nods. "It'll do. Cold camp again - no fire, no light. We're 
too close to their patrols."
You both settle in as darkness falls completely. The temperature drops quickly 
at this elevation, and you can see your breath in the starlight. You eat a quiet 
meal of dried rations and share a waterskin.
"So," Kessa says softly, keeping her voice low. "Tomorrow we need to find a 
way down into that sinkhole, avoid the draconians, figure out what they're 
guarding, and ideally not get eaten by whatever made that sound from the 
depths." She grins despite the situation. "Just another day's work."
She's quiet for a moment, then: "Johannes... that thing down there. If it really 
is a dragon..." She trails off, then shakes her head. "We'll deal with it if we have 
to. Get some rest. I'll take first watch again."
The night is cold and clear. Stars wheel overhead in unfamiliar patterns.
You rest. The night passes without incident.
 
You wake to pre-dawn gray light. Kessa is already up, sharpening her rapier 
with quiet, methodical strokes.
"Morning," she whispers. "I've been thinking about our approach. Want to 
hear my ideas before we move?"
What do you do?
Absolutely
Dec 1
Kessa sheathes her rapier and crouches beside you, sketching in the dirt with a 
stick.
"Okay. From what we saw last night, the draconians are patrolling the obvious 
approaches - the upper rim where proper roads and staircases lead down. 
That's where they expect people to enter." She draws a circle for the sinkhole, 
marks X's around the rim.
"But a city that old, that big? There have to be other ways in. Back entrances, 
drainage tunnels, collapsed sections where we could climb down." She taps a 
section of her rough map. "I'm thinking we circle around to the far side - away 
from where we saw the most activity - and look for a less-guarded entry point."
She looks up at you. "The risk is we might end up climbing down unstable 
ruins, but honestly I'd rather deal with crumbling architecture than organized 
patrols. Once we're inside the sinkhole, we use the ruins for cover, stay in the 
shadows, and work our way down carefully."
She draws a line going down into the circle. "We explore the upper and middle 
tiers, see what the draconians are doing, what they're guarding. We avoid the 
depths unless absolutely necessary - that's where the big scary thing lives."
She sets down the stick. "Main goal: intelligence gathering. What are they 
after? How many are there? Any prisoners or artifacts we can identify? Then 
we get out the same way we came in and report back."
She meets your eyes. "Sound good? Or do you have other ideas?"
What do you do?
No. As bad as crumbling architecture might be, collapsing buildings or falling 
rocks might not draw as much attention if we can do this right.
Dec 1
"Exactly," Kessa agrees, wiping away her dirt sketch. "Noise from collapsing 
ruins is just... Tuesday in ancient Xak Tsaroth. But the sound of combat? That 
brings everyone running."
She stands, shouldering her pack and checking her weapons one last time. 
"Let's circle wide around the rim - stay well back from their patrol routes. 
We'll approach from the far side and scout for our way down."
 
You spend the early morning carefully working your way around the sinkhole's 
perimeter, staying well back from the rim where the draconians patrol. The 
terrain is rough - broken rocks, dense scrub, occasional ravines that force 
detours.
After about two hours of cautious travel, you've circled roughly halfway 
around the sinkhole. The sun is fully up now, though mist still rises from the 
depths of Xak Tsaroth.
Kessa signals a stop. You're on the opposite side from where you initially 
approached - the side facing away from the direction most refugees and 
travelers would come from.
She crawls forward to peek over the rim, then waves you up beside her.
From this vantage point, you can see a section of the ancient city that looks 
particularly ruined. A massive building - perhaps once a palace or great hall - 
has partially collapsed, its walls creating a jagged series of ledges and 
platforms leading down into the sinkhole. Old staircases are broken but still 
partially intact. It's treacherous-looking, but definitely climbable.
More importantly: you don't see any draconian patrols on this section of the 
rim.
? Perception check to scout for hidden threats: Roll d20 + 1 
(Wisdom)
What's your roll?
16
Dec 1
Total: 17
You study the area carefully, taking your time. Your caution pays off.
The rim itself appears unguarded - no draconians in sight. But about 150 feet 
down, on one of the broader ledges formed by the collapsed palace, you spot 
movement. Two draconians are stationed there, seemingly watching the 
depths below rather than the rim above. They're relaxed, leaning on their 
spears, occasionally talking to each other.
More usefully, you notice their sightlines are blocked by the ruins themselves - 
the way the collapsed walls create angles and shadows. If you're careful about 
your descent route, you could climb down past them without being seen.
You also spot something else: about 200 feet down, there's what looks like an 
intact archway leading into the cliff face - some kind of tunnel or interior 
passage. It's shrouded in shadow, but it could provide access to the city's 
interior spaces.
Kessa follows your gaze and nods slowly. "I see them. Two guards, not paying 
attention to above. And that archway..." She grins. "That's our way in. We just 
need to climb down without them noticing."
The descent looks challenging - broken masonry, crumbling handholds, 
sections where you'd have to navigate across gaps. But it's doable.
She looks at you. "Ready to do some climbing? Take it slow and quiet?"
What do you do?
Let's do it.
Dec 1
Kessa secures her gear to minimize noise, then carefully swings her legs over 
the rim. "Follow my route. Test every handhold before you trust it. And 
whatever you do, don't look down."
She begins her descent, moving with practiced caution.
You follow, easing yourself over the edge. The ancient stone is cold beneath 
your hands, and the drop below is dizzying - hundreds of feet to the mist-
shrouded depths.
The first section isn't too bad - large blocks of fallen masonry create a rough 
staircase. But then you reach a gap where the wall has sheered away entirely. 
You'll need to traverse sideways along a narrow ledge to reach the next section 
of stable ruins.
? Athletics check for the challenging climb: Roll d20 + 0 (Strength)
Kessa is ahead of you, already navigating the ledge with careful precision.
What's your roll?
16
Dec 1
Total: 16 - Success!
You move across the narrow ledge with surprising grace, your fingers finding 
good holds in the ancient stone. The Ring of Feather Falling on your finger is a 
comforting presence - even if you slip, you won't plummet to your death.
The knowledge gives you confidence, and you make steady progress 
downward. Past crumbling archways, over collapsed walls, down broken 
staircases that end in open air.
After about twenty careful minutes, you've descended roughly 180 feet. You're 
now on a relatively stable platform formed by a collapsed floor - old tiles still 
visible beneath centuries of grime and moss.
Kessa is pressed against a broken wall, gesturing urgently for you to join her. 
You move up beside her and peer around the corner.
The two draconian guards are now only about 30 feet below and perhaps 40 
feet to your right. From this angle, you can see them clearly - Baaz draconians 
again, armed with spears and shortswords. They're focused on watching 
something deeper in the sinkhole, occasionally pointing and talking in their 
hissing language.
More importantly, you can now see the shadowed archway clearly - it's about 
20 feet below your current position and slightly to the left. An ancient doorway 
leading into the cliff face, probably into the palace's interior chambers.
The guards haven't noticed you. Their attention is elsewhere.
Kessa points to the archway and raises an eyebrow questioningly. The climb 
down to it looks manageable, and the angle would keep you hidden from the 
guards' line of sight.
What do you do?
I nod and follow.
Dec 1
Kessa moves first, lowering herself carefully from the platform. The descent to 
the archway is only about 20 feet, but the stone here is particularly worn and 
treacherous.
? Athletics check: Roll d20 + 0 (Strength)
What's your roll?
18
Dec 1
Total: 18 - Excellent!
You descend smoothly, finding solid handholds and moving with quiet 
confidence. Within a few minutes, you drop silently onto the wide stone 
threshold of the ancient archway.
The entrance is impressive even in its decay - carved pillars frame a doorway 
easily twelve feet high. The darkness beyond is absolute, but you can feel cool 
air flowing from within, carrying the smell of stone, damp, and something 
else... something old.
Kessa lands beside you, breathing quietly. She pulls out a small hooded 
lantern from her pack, keeping it shuttered for now. "We'll need light once 
we're inside, but let's get away from this entrance first."
She peers into the darkness, listening intently. No sounds from within - just 
the distant echo of water dripping somewhere deep in the ruins.
Behind and below you, the two draconian guards continue their watch, 
completely unaware of your presence.
Kessa looks at you, hand on her rapier hilt. "Ready? Once we go in, we're 
committed. These tunnels could lead anywhere - deeper into the palace, down 
to the lower tiers, maybe even to whatever those draconians are guarding."
The archway yawns before you, promising secrets and dangers in equal 
measure.
What do you do?
Just like in Firepeak, I suggest we not draw attention with light sources. I'll lead 
with Devil's Sight and she follows behind? Thoughts, Kressa?
Dec 1
Kessa's face lights up with recognition. "Right - your warlock sight. I forgot 
you can see in complete darkness." She tucks the lantern away. "That worked 
well in Firestorm Peak. Let's do it again."
She moves close behind you, resting her hand lightly on your shoulder so she 
can follow your movements. "Just remember to warn me about steps, holes, or 
anything I might trip over. Last thing we need is me making noise because I 
walked into a wall."
You can feel her trust in the gesture - putting herself literally in your hands in 
the darkness.
"Lead on," she whispers.
 
You step into the archway, and your Devil's Sight pierces the absolute 
darkness as if it were dimly lit. The passage beyond is a wide corridor, its walls 
carved with ancient reliefs - images of robed figures in worship, dragons in 
flight, scenes of a prosperous city. All covered in centuries of grime and water 
stains.
The corridor extends about sixty feet ahead before opening into what looks 
like a larger chamber. The floor is relatively intact, though littered with rubble 
and debris.
Behind you, Kessa moves carefully, trusting your guidance completely.
? Perception check to notice details or threats: Roll d20 + 1 
(Wisdom)
What's your roll?
13
Dec 1
Total: 14
As you move down the corridor, you notice several important details:
The reliefs on the walls depict what appears to be a temple or religious center - 
priests presenting offerings to dragon-headed deities. Interesting, given what 
Hederick mentioned about "true knowledge of the gods" being hidden here.
The floor shows signs of recent traffic - disturbed dust, scuff marks. The 
draconians have been through here, though not recently. Maybe a day or two 
ago.
About halfway down the corridor, you spot a side passage branching to the 
right - narrower, partially collapsed, but passable. It descends steeply 
downward.
The main corridor continues ahead to that larger chamber you glimpsed.
"Steps coming up," you warn Kessa quietly as you reach a short staircase 
leading down into the chamber ahead. She adjusts her grip on your shoulder, 
moving carefully.
From the chamber ahead, you hear something - a faint sound. Water 
dripping? No... something else. A slight scraping, like claws on stone. Then 
silence.
Kessa tenses behind you. She heard it too, even without being able to see.
You're at the threshold of the larger chamber now. Your Devil's Sight reveals 
it's a grand hall, perhaps fifty feet across, with a high vaulted ceiling. Broken 
pillars. Debris everywhere.
And movement - something small and quick, disappearing behind rubble on 
the far side.
What do you do?
Head back to the small passageway...
Dec 1
You pause, then whisper to Kessa, "Back. Side passage."
She doesn't question it, trusting your judgment. You both retreat quietly back 
up the stairs and turn into the narrow side passage you spotted earlier.
It's a tight fit - clearly a service corridor or secondary route. The ceiling is 
lower, maybe seven feet, and the passage descends at a steep angle into the 
depths. The walls here are plain stone, no decorative carvings.
Kessa keeps her hand on your shoulder as you navigate the cramped space. 
"What did you see back there?" she breathes.
"Movement. Something small, quick. Didn't want to find out what while we're 
in an open chamber."
"Good call."
The passage winds downward for perhaps eighty feet, then opens into another 
corridor - this one running perpendicular. You can see passages branching in 
multiple directions now. You're getting deeper into the ruins' interior.
From somewhere ahead and below, you hear voices - the guttural, hissing 
language of draconians. Multiple voices, echoing up through the stone 
passages. They sound... relaxed? Not alarmed, just conversing.
There's also a different sound - a low, rhythmic creaking. Like machinery or... 
no, like a chain. A large chain being worked.
Kessa whispers, "We're getting close to something. Which way?"
The voices seem to be coming from straight ahead and down. But there are 
side passages that might let you bypass whatever's making those sounds, or 
get a better vantage point.
What do you do?
Get the better vantage point.
Dec 1
You choose a side passage that angles left, hoping to circle around and get eyes 
on whatever's making those sounds without walking straight into it.
The narrow corridor twists and descends, the stonework becoming 
increasingly water-damaged. You can hear the voices more clearly now, 
echoing through the ancient halls.
After about fifty feet, the passage opens onto a small balcony or observation 
point - probably once used by guards or servants. It overlooks a much larger 
space below.
You peer carefully over the edge, Kessa pressing close beside you to see what 
your Devil's Sight reveals.
? Stealth check to observe without being noticed: Roll d20 + 2 
(Dexterity)
What's your roll?
8
Dec 1
Total: 10
You lean forward to get a better view, and a piece of loose stone shifts under 
your boot with a soft scrape.
The sound isn't loud, but in the echoing chamber below, it carries.
The draconian voices stop mid-conversation.
You freeze. Kessa's hand tightens on your shoulder, both of you utterly still.
Below, you hear movement - footsteps, the clink of weapons being readied. 
One of them hisses something sharp - a command or question.
Your Devil's Sight shows you the scene: A large circular courtyard, open to the 
misty air of the sinkhole above. The massive chain you heard descends from 
somewhere overhead, disappearing down into a dark shaft in the center of the 
courtyard.
Four Baaz draconians are in the courtyard, now alert and scanning the 
surrounding balconies and passages. One of them is pointing toward your 
general area.
They haven't spotted you specifically yet - you're partially concealed by a 
broken section of railing - but they're actively searching now.
One begins moving toward a staircase that would lead up to your level.
Kessa's breath is barely audible beside you. She can't see what's happening, 
but she understands the danger.
What do you do?
Back away into the passageway and ready for an assault as quietly as possible.
Dec 1
You pull back into the narrow passage, moving as quietly as you can. Kessa 
follows, drawing her rapier with practiced silence. You position yourselves 
about twenty feet back from the balcony opening, where the passage narrows - 
a defensible chokepoint.
You ready your eldritch energies, feeling the familiar dark power coil in your 
hands. Kessa takes position slightly behind and to your side, rapier ready for 
anyone who gets past your spells.
From the balcony, you hear the scrape of clawed feet on stone. The draconian 
is coming up to investigate.
A shadow appears at the passage entrance - reptilian head poking around the 
corner cautiously, spear held ready.
It peers into the darkness. Without darkvision of its own, it can't see you 
standing there in the blackness twenty feet away.
It hisses something - probably calling to its companions below. Then it takes a 
tentative step into the passage, squinting into the dark.
Another step.
It's now about fifteen feet from you, moving slowly, clearly uncomfortable in 
the absolute darkness.
You could blast it now - but the sound and light of combat would definitely 
alert the others. Or you could wait, hope it gives up and retreats. Or try 
something else entirely.
Kessa is a coiled spring beside you, waiting for your signal.
What do you do?
Whisper to Kressa, use your Dancing Lights to get its attention heading into 
the large chamber we didn't enter before. We stay where we are or continue 
to retreat backward.
Dec 1
You whisper the plan to Kessa. She nods understanding and carefully pulls out 
a small pouch from her belt - her thieves' tools. She extracts a tiny piece of 
phosphorescent material.
Wait - Kessa doesn't have Dancing Lights. That's a spell she can't cast.
But you can. You're the warlock with cantrips.
You could cast Dancing Lights back down the passage behind you - creating 
glowing orbs that would move away, drawing the draconian deeper into the 
darkness away from its companions. Or you meant something else?
The draconian takes another cautious step forward. It's now only about twelve 
feet away, peering into the blackness where you stand invisible to its eyes.
What's your plan?
I do what I said for Kressa to do...use Dancing Lights to simulate torchlight 
heading into the large chamber while we head back further down the tunnel 
and wait for things to cool down.
Dec 1
Right - you'll cast it yourself. Smart.
You focus and whisper the incantation, creating four points of dancing light. 
You send them back down the corridor you came from - back toward the large 
chamber with the movement you'd avoided earlier. The lights bob and weave 
like someone carrying torches, moving away from your position.
The draconian's head snaps toward the retreating lights. It hisses excitedly 
and calls down to its companions - clearly reporting that the intruder is fleeing 
in the other direction.
You hear answering calls from below, then the sound of multiple draconians 
rushing toward the staircase, pursuing your magical decoy.
The one in front of you turns and rushes back toward the balcony to join the 
hunt, its footsteps receding quickly.
You and Kessa immediately move backward down the passage, putting 
distance between yourselves and the now-alerted draconians. You maintain 
the Dancing Lights for the full minute duration, leading them on a merry 
chase through the corridors toward that chamber.
After retreating about sixty feet and taking two turns, you finally let the lights 
wink out.
Silence. Then, distantly, angry hissing voices - the draconians realizing they've 
been tricked.
Kessa lets out a slow breath. "Nicely done. But they're going to be on high alert 
now. We need to either find what we came for quickly, or find another route."
You're in a different section of the ruins now, the passages unfamiliar.
What do you do?
Seek for somewhere safe enough to take a long rest, enough time for any 
search to wear itself down before returning to explore again.
Dec 1
Kessa nods agreement. "Good thinking. Let them exhaust themselves 
searching while we wait it out."
You move carefully through the passages, your Devil's Sight guiding you both 
deeper into the less-traveled sections of the ruins. After about ten minutes of 
cautious exploration, you find a promising location:
A small chamber - perhaps once a storage room or guard post - with only one 
entrance. The door is partially collapsed but still provides concealment. 
Inside, the room is maybe ten feet square with a relatively dry floor. Rubble in 
one corner could provide additional cover if needed, and the thick walls would 
muffle any sounds.
Most importantly, it's well off the main passages. The dust on the floor is 
undisturbed - no one has been here in a very long time.
Kessa examines it and nods. "This'll work. We can block the entrance with 
some of this rubble, make it look like just another collapsed room from the 
outside."
You both quietly arrange stones to partially obscure the doorway, leaving just 
enough gap to slip through if needed. Then you settle in.
"I'll take first watch," Kessa whispers, positioning herself where she can watch 
the entrance. "Get some rest. We've got eight hours to kill."
The distant sounds of searching draconians echo through the ruins for the first 
hour or so, then gradually fade as they apparently give up or expand their 
search elsewhere.
 
Long Rest: You recover all HP (39/39), all spell slots (2/2), and all 
hit dice. Eight hours pass.
You wake to Kessa gently shaking your shoulder. "It's been quiet for hours. I 
think they've settled back into whatever routine they had before."
What do you do?
Return to the entrance to the large chamber and try to figure out the source 
of the scraping sound without revealing ourselves.
Dec 1
You and Kessa carefully navigate back through the passages, retracing your 
steps. Your Devil's Sight guides you both through the darkness until you're 
back near the balcony overlook where you'd made noise before.
This time, you approach with extreme caution. The passage is silent - no 
sounds of nearby draconians.
You creep to the edge of the balcony and peer over carefully, Kessa pressed 
against the wall behind you, waiting for your whispered report.
? Stealth check to observe without being detected: Roll d20 + 2 
(Dexterity)
What's your roll?
Ugh! 5
Dec 1
Total: 7
You lean out to get a better view, and your Cloak of Protection catches on a 
piece of broken railing, making a soft rustling sound.
Below, you hear immediate movement - the draconians are still on high alert 
from earlier. Footsteps, weapons being drawn, harsh whispered commands.
But this time you at least get a good look before you have to pull back:
The circular courtyard below is about 60 feet across. The massive chain in the 
center descends from somewhere high above and continues down into a dark 
shaft - some kind of elevator or lift system. That's what was making the 
creaking sound you heard earlier.
Four Baaz draconians are stationed in the courtyard - two near the chain 
mechanism, two watching the various passage entrances. They're alert now, 
scanning the balconies.
One of them points directly at your position and shouts something.
They've spotted you this time.
Two of them start moving toward the staircase leading up to your level. The 
other two remain below, spears ready, blocking any escape through the 
courtyard.
Kessa curses softly behind you. "Time to move or fight?"
You have maybe 15-20 seconds before the two draconians reach your level.
What do you do?
Hex and EB on one of the dragonmen heading up the stairs. I roll 19 for an 
Initiative check...
Dec 1
Initiative: Johannes 19
? Roll for Kessa's initiative: d20 + 3 (DEX)
She rolls: 16
? Roll for the Draconians' initiative: d20 + 1
They roll: 8
Initiative Order: Johannes (19), Kessa (16), Draconians (8)
 
ROUND 1 - YOUR TURN
You step forward to the edge of the balcony, targeting the lead draconian 
climbing the stairs. Dark energy coils around your hand as you mark him with 
Hex (placing disadvantage on Constitution checks), then unleash your 
Eldritch Blast.
? Attack roll for Eldritch Blast (2 beams at 5th level): Roll d20 + 6 
(CHA + proficiency) TWICE
What are your rolls?
4, 14
Dec 1
First beam: 4 + 6 = 10 - MISS Second beam: 14 + 6 = 20 - HIT!
Your first blast goes wide, scorching the stone wall. But your second beam 
slams into the lead draconian's chest with a crack of eldritch energy.
? Damage roll: 1d10 (force) + 1d6 (Hex) + 3 (Agonizing Blast)
Roll 1d10 and 1d6 for damage!
7,4
Dec 1
Damage: 7 + 4 + 3 = 14 force damage!
The eldritch beam punches through the draconian's scaled chest with 
devastating force. It staggers backward on the stairs, hissing in pain, dark 
energy crackling around the wound from your Hex curse.
It's badly hurt but still standing.
 
KESSA'S TURN
She steps up beside you, hand crossbow already raised. "Nice shot!" She takes 
aim at the same wounded draconian.
Her attack roll: 18 + 5 = 23 - HIT!
The bolt takes it in the throat. The creature gurgles, stumbles, and tumbles 
backward down the stairs, its body beginning to turn to stone even as it falls - 
the strange death curse of Baaz draconians.
By the time it hits the bottom, it's a crumbling statue that shatters into dust.
"One down!" Kessa reloads smoothly.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The second one on the stairs roars in fury and charges up toward your 
position, closing the distance. The two below spread out, one moving to get a 
better angle on you while the other guards the chain mechanism.
The charging draconian reaches the top of the stairs - it's now only 10 feet 
from you, shortsword drawn.
The one below with line of sight hurls a javelin up at you!
Attack vs your AC 14: rolls 12 + 4 = 16 - HIT!
? Roll 1d6 for javelin damage
What's your roll?
3
Dec 1
You take 3 piercing damage! Current HP: 36/39
The javelin catches your shoulder, tearing through your cloak. Pain flares, but 
it's not deep.
 
ROUND 2 - YOUR TURN
The hexed draconian is now only 10 feet away, shortsword raised. The other 
two are below in the courtyard - one has line of sight to throw weapons, the 
other is guarding the chain.
Your Hex is still active on... wait, the hexed one died. You can use your bonus 
action to move the Hex to a new target within 30 feet as part of the spell.
What do you do?
Switch Hex to second draconian on stairs. EB...
Dec 1
You shift your Hex curse to the draconian charging at you, dark energy 
wreathing around it. Then you unleash Eldritch Blast at point-blank range.
? Attack roll for Eldritch Blast (2 beams): Roll d20 + 6 TWICE
What are your rolls?
3,19
Dec 1
First beam: 3 + 6 = 9 - MISS Second beam: 19 + 6 = 25 - HIT!
Your first blast goes wild in the close quarters, but the second slams into the 
draconian's chest at point-blank range.
? Damage roll: 1d10 (force) + 1d6 (Hex) + 3 (Agonizing Blast)
Roll 1d10 and 1d6!
5,4
Dec 1
Damage: 5 + 4 + 3 = 12 force damage!
The blast tears into the draconian, sending it reeling backward. It's bloodied, 
scales cracked and smoking, but it's still on its feet and dangerously close.
 
KESSA'S TURN
"Too close!" she hisses, then darts forward with her rapier, trying to finish it 
before it can strike you.
Her attack roll: 14 + 5 = 19 - HIT! Sneak Attack applies - it's 
distracted by you!
Her damage: Rapier (1d8+3) + Sneak Attack (3d6) = 4 + 11 = 15 
damage!
Her rapier finds the gap in its scales, driving deep. The draconian gasps, then 
begins its transformation to stone. It topples sideways, crashing into the wall 
where it crumbles to dust.
"Two down!" Kessa pants.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The two remaining in the courtyard below realize they're outmatched. One 
shouts something in Draconic - it sounds like a command or warning.
Both of them turn and sprint for different exit passages, abandoning their post 
by the chain.
They're fleeing to raise the alarm!
 
ROUND 3 - YOUR TURN
Both draconians are running - one heading for a passage to the east, one to the 
west. They're about 40 feet away and moving fast. You might get one shot 
before they disappear into the tunnels.
What do you do?
One beam each...Hex on Eastern target
Dec 1
You shift your Hex to the eastern draconian and fire both beams - one at each 
fleeing target.
? Attack roll for Eastern target (with Hex): Roll d20 + 6 ? Attack 
roll for Western target: Roll d20 + 6
What are your two rolls?
10,11
Dec 1
Eastern target: 10 + 6 = 16 - HIT! Western target: 11 + 6 = 17 - HIT!
Both beams lance down into the courtyard!
? Eastern (hexed) damage: 1d10 + 1d6 + 3 ? Western damage: 
1d10 + 3
Roll 1d10 and 1d6 for the hexed target, then 1d10 for the other!
6,1 2,1
Dec 1
Eastern target: 6 + 1 + 3 = 10 damage! Western target: 2 + 3 = 5 
damage!
Your hexed blast catches the eastern draconian squarely in the back, dropping 
it mid-stride. It crashes forward and begins turning to stone.
The western one staggers from your hit but keeps running, disappearing into 
the tunnel passage. It's wounded but escaped.
 
COMBAT ENDS
Kessa curses. "One got away. We've got maybe a minute before this place is 
swarming with draconians."
She looks at the courtyard below - the massive chain mechanism in the center, 
the stone dust from the fallen draconians, multiple passage exits.
"We can try to follow it and silence it before it raises the alarm, we can 
investigate that chain quickly, or we get the hell out of here now. Your call, but 
decide fast!"
The massive chain continues to creak softly, descending into darkness below 
and rising into mist above.
What do you do?
follow the wounded
Dec 1
"Go!" you shout, and you both sprint down the stairs into the courtyard.
You reach the western passage where the wounded draconian fled. Your 
Devil's Sight pierces the darkness ahead - you can see it about 60 feet down 
the corridor, limping but moving fast, one clawed hand pressed against the 
wall for support. It hasn't looked back yet.
Kessa stays close behind you, hand on your shoulder.
The corridor is straight for now, giving you a clear shot if you want to try to 
drop it at range before it can raise the alarm.
? Eldritch Blast attack: Roll d20 + 6 (you still have Hex on this 
target)
What's your roll?
11
Dec 1
First beam: 11 + 6 = 17 - HIT!
? Roll your second beam: d20 + 6
What's your roll?
1
Dec 1
Second beam: 1 + 6 = 7 - MISS!
Your first beam strikes true!
? Damage: 1d10 + 1d6 (Hex) + 3
Roll 1d10 and 1d6!
4,1
Dec 1
Damage: 4 + 1 + 3 = 8 damage!
The blast slams into the draconian's back. It stumbles, crashes against the 
wall, then slumps to the ground. Its body begins the transformation to stone, 
but before it fully turns, it manages one last rasping cry - a warning shout that 
echoes down the corridors.
Then it crumbles to dust.
Silence.
But the damage is done. That shout will have been heard.
Kessa grips your shoulder. "We need to move. Now. Back to the courtyard - we 
can use that chain to go down or find another exit, but standing here is 
suicide."
From somewhere deeper in the ruins, you hear answering calls - draconian 
voices, multiple of them, responding to their fallen comrade's warning.
You sprint back to the circular courtyard. The massive chain hangs there, 
creaking softly. Looking up, it disappears into the mist above. Looking down 
into the shaft, it descends into darkness - you can't see the bottom even with 
Devil's Sight.
There are four other passage exits from this courtyard besides the one you 
came from and the one where you just killed the draconian.
Kessa looks at you urgently. "Pick a direction - they're coming!"
You can hear footsteps now, getting closer from multiple directions.
What do you do?
Can we climb down the chain safely?
Dec 1
You rush to the chain and examine it quickly. It's massive - each link is as 
thick as your forearm, made of ancient iron that's surprisingly well-
maintained. The chain descends into a circular shaft about 15 feet wide.
? Athletics check to assess the climb: Roll d20 + 0 (Strength)
What's your roll?
9
Dec 1
Total: 9
You grip the chain and test it - it's climbable, but it's also slick with moisture 
and the links are awkwardly spaced. This isn't going to be an easy descent, 
especially in a hurry.
More importantly, as you peer down into the shaft, your Devil's Sight shows 
you it drops at least 200 feet - maybe more - into what looks like a flooded 
chamber below. You can see water glinting at the bottom.
Kessa reads your hesitation. "Too far? Too exposed?"
The footsteps are getting very close now - maybe 20 seconds before 
draconians emerge from multiple passages.
She points to one of the unexplored exits - the northern passage. "That one 
angles down and looks less traveled. Or we make a stand here with our backs 
to the shaft?"
You can hear draconian voices now, coordinating in their harsh language. 
They're converging on this courtyard.
What do you do?
Northern passage
Dec 1
"North - go!" you hiss.
You both sprint for the northern passage just as the first draconians emerge 
into the courtyard behind you - you hear their shouts of alarm, the clatter of 
weapons.
The northern corridor is narrow and descends steeply, winding like a natural 
fissure in the rock. Your Devil's Sight shows it's rough-hewn, less finished than 
the other passages - possibly a service tunnel or escape route.
Behind you, the sounds of pursuit - multiple draconians entering the corridor, 
their clawed feet scraping on stone.
The passage twists sharply right, then left, then opens into-
A dead end.
No, wait. Your Devil's Sight catches it: a narrow crack in the wall, maybe two 
feet wide. A squeeze, but passable. Beyond it, the passage continues.
Kessa feels the wall. "What do you see?"
"Gap in the wall - tight fit."
"Better than fighting a dozen of them. Go!"
You turn sideways and slip through the crack. It's claustrophobic - stone 
scraping your chest and back - but you make it through.
? Dexterity check for Kessa to follow: Roll d20 + 3 for her
The draconians are almost at the turn - you can hear them seconds away.
Roll for Kessa!
13
Dec 1
Kessa's roll: 13 + 3 = 16 - Success!
Kessa slides through the narrow gap just as the first draconian rounds the 
corner. It spots her disappearing through the crack and roars, rushing 
forward.
But the gap is too narrow for the bulky draconians with their wings and 
broader frames. One tries to wedge itself through and gets stuck, hissing in 
frustration. The others behind it start shouting - some scrambling back to find 
another route, others trying to help pull their stuck companion free.
You and Kessa don't wait to see more. You continue down the passage beyond 
the crack. It winds downward steeply, the air growing cooler and damper. 
After about fifty feet, the passage opens into a larger space.
Your Devil's Sight reveals a strange sight:
You're on a ledge overlooking a vast underground plaza, maybe 100 feet 
across. Ancient stone buildings surround it, many collapsed or heavily 
damaged. Several waterfalls cascade from broken aqueducts high above, 
creating the mist you saw from outside. The plaza is flooded - water about 
three feet deep covers the ancient cobblestones.
And in the water, you see movement. Small, hunched figures with oversized 
heads and ratty clothing, splashing around. At least a dozen of them.
Gully dwarves - Aghar. They're arguing loudly with each other about 
something, completely oblivious to your presence on the ledge above.
Kessa whispers, "What do you see?"
What do you do?
Tell her what I see...
Side question: are we saving a significant number of tokens with me doing the 
rolling? It really breaks the fourth wall.
Dec 1
You whisper to Kessa: "Underground plaza, flooded about three feet deep. 
Gully dwarves - maybe a dozen of them - arguing in the water below. They 
haven't noticed us."
Kessa processes this. "Aghar... they're harmless but unpredictable. Might 
know the layout down here though."
 
Re: Token Usage
You're absolutely right - having you roll does save tokens, but if it's breaking 
immersion for you, we can absolutely change it back. The narrative flow and 
your enjoyment are more important than token efficiency.
What would you prefer?
*	Keep you rolling (efficient but breaks immersion)
*	I roll everything (more immersive, uses more tokens)
*	Hybrid: I roll for NPCs/enemies, you roll for Johannes (splits the 
difference)
Your call - I want this to feel right for you!
Back to the game - what do you do about the gully dwarves below?
Let's try split the difference
Dec 1
Perfect! I'll handle NPC and enemy rolls, you handle Johannes. That should 
keep immersion while staying efficient.
 
Back to the flooded plaza: the gully dwarves continue their loud, chaotic 
argument below. From what you can make out, they seem to be fighting over 
who gets to carry a particularly shiny piece of broken pottery.
Kessa peers over the ledge, though she can't see them in the darkness. "Can we 
get down there? Or do we need to go around?"
Your Devil's Sight shows a crumbling staircase descending from your ledge to 
the plaza level - it looks unstable but climbable. There are also several 
passages leading out of the plaza at ground level, though you'd have to wade 
through the water and likely past the gully dwarves to reach them.
Behind you, distant but getting closer, you hear the draconians - they've found 
another route and are trying to track you.
The gully dwarves might notice you if you descend, or you could try to find 
another way around this plaza entirely. There's a narrow ledge that runs along 
the wall at your current height - treacherous-looking but it might bypass the 
flooded area.
What do you do?
Let's try the ledge; we need to keep moving!
Dec 1
"Ledge - we keep moving!" you whisper urgently.
The narrow ledge runs along the wall, maybe a foot wide, slick with moisture. 
It's treacherous but bypasses the gully dwarves entirely.
You start across, back pressed to the wall.
? Dexterity (Acrobatics) check: Roll d20 + 2
What's your roll?
16
Dec 1
Total: 18 - Success!
You navigate the treacherous ledge with careful precision, testing each step 
before committing your weight. The slick stone is manageable with focus, and 
you make steady progress around the perimeter of the flooded plaza.
Kessa follows behind, her rogue's grace serving her well. She rolls a 19 - 
moving even more confidently than you.
Below, the gully dwarves continue their argument, completely oblivious to the 
two figures edging along the wall forty feet above them.
The ledge brings you around to the far side of the plaza where it widens into a 
proper walkway. A passage leads deeper into the ruins - southeast, continuing 
downward.
Behind you, back near where you entered, you hear draconian voices echoing 
into the plaza. They've reached the ledge where you started.
One of them spots the gully dwarves below and shouts down at them in broken 
Common: "You see humans? Intruders?"
The gully dwarves stop arguing and look up, confused. One shouts back: "No 
see nothing! Go away! This our plaza!"
The draconian curses and continues searching.
Kessa tugs your sleeve, gesturing toward the southeast passage. "While they're 
distracted?"
The passage ahead descends steeply into deeper darkness.
What do you do?
Head to the passage.
Dec 1
You both slip into the southeast passage while the draconians are occupied 
interrogating the confused gully dwarves. Their voices fade behind you as you 
descend.
The passage here is different - older, more refined. The walls show traces of 
elaborate carvings, though centuries of water damage have eroded most 
details. The air grows noticeably cooler and carries a strange, mineral smell.
After descending perhaps another hundred feet through winding corridors, 
the passage opens into something remarkable:
A massive underground chamber - easily 200 feet across with a ceiling that 
soars up into darkness even your Devil's Sight can't fully penetrate. The floor 
is a maze of broken pillars, collapsed archways, and rubble from what must 
have been a grand temple or palace hall.
But what draws your eye is the far end of the chamber:
A raised dais with seven stone pillars arranged in a circle. And between those 
pillars, suspended in the air by some unseen force, floats a massive crystalline 
disc - easily eight feet across, glowing with a soft blue-white light.
The only light source you've seen in these ruins.
Kessa gasps softly beside you - even she can see that glow in the darkness. 
"Johannes... what is that?"
As your eyes adjust to the strange light, you notice something else: crude 
shelters and sleeping areas scattered around the chamber. Gully dwarf 
encampments. But they're empty right now - no movement, no sounds.
And then you hear it:
A low, rumbling breath. Deep. Resonant. Coming from somewhere in the 
shadows beyond the glowing disc.
Something large is in this chamber with you.
What do you do?
Arcana check on the disc
Dec 1
? Arcana check: Roll d20 + 1 (Intelligence)
What's your roll?
6
Dec 1
Total: 7
You study the floating disc, trying to understand its nature, but the magic is 
beyond your immediate comprehension. It's clearly ancient and powerful - the 
way it floats defies normal enchantment principles you know. The blue-white 
glow pulses softly, almost like a heartbeat.
What you can tell: it's not a spell effect you recognize. This is something older, 
more fundamental. Divine magic, perhaps? But Hederick said clerical magic 
hasn't existed here for three centuries...
The rumbling breath sounds again, closer this time.
Your Devil's Sight pierces the shadows beyond the dais, and what you see 
makes your blood run cold:
A massive form, coiled in the darkness. Black scales that seem to absorb light. 
A serpentine neck as thick as a tree trunk. Wings folded against a body easily 
forty feet long.
A black dragon. Ancient, enormous, and very much awake.
Its head lifts slightly, nostrils flaring. It's scenting the air.
Kessa has gone absolutely still beside you, her hand frozen on her rapier hilt. 
She can see the glowing disc, but not the dragon lurking beyond it.
You're standing at the chamber entrance, perhaps 150 feet from the dais. The 
dragon hasn't spotted you yet - you're in shadow and it seems focused on the 
disc - but any movement or sound might draw its attention.
What do you do?
Kressa?
Dec 1
You breathe her name, barely a whisper.
She leans close, her voice the faintest thread of sound. "What? What do you 
see?"
You whisper back: "Dragon. Black. Ancient. Beyond the disc. Hasn't seen us 
yet."
You feel her entire body tense against you. Her breathing goes shallow and 
controlled - the reaction of someone who knows exactly how much danger 
they're in.
"How big?" she breathes.
"Forty feet. Maybe more."
A pause. Then: "The disc - is that what they're after? What Hederick sent us to 
find?"
Good question. The draconians are clearly interested in something in Xak 
Tsaroth. And this glowing disc is the only thing of obvious importance you've 
seen. But why would they need a dragon to guard it if they already control the 
ruins?
Unless... the dragon isn't working for them. Maybe it's keeping 
them from something.
The dragon shifts, its massive head turning slightly. Not toward you - toward 
one of the side passages. It's watching something, alert.
Kessa whispers urgently: "We have intelligence now - dragon, glowing artifact, 
draconian occupation. That might be enough for Hederick. Do we try to get 
closer, or do we extract while we can?"
The dragon's tail sweeps slowly across the stone floor with a sound like 
grinding rock.
What do you do?
Insight check on teh dragon
Dec 1
? Insight check: Roll d20 + 1 (Wisdom)
What's your roll?
10
Dec 1
Total: 11
You watch the dragon's movements carefully, trying to read its behavior.
It's alert but not hunting. Its attention keeps returning to that glowing disc - 
possessive, protective. This isn't a creature following orders or standing guard 
out of duty. This dragon is guarding something it values.
The way it shifts position, always keeping the disc within view while watching 
the various passage entrances... it's defending territory. This is its lair, and 
that disc is its prize.
But there's something else. The dragon seems... tense. Watchful in a way that 
suggests it's not just worried about intruders like you. It keeps glancing toward 
the passages leading deeper into the ruins, the ones the draconians would use.
An uneasy truce, perhaps? The draconians occupy the upper ruins, the dragon 
claims the depths, and neither side wants open conflict?
The dragon's head suddenly swivels toward a passage on the eastern side of 
the chamber. Its lips curl back, revealing teeth like daggers. A low growl 
rumbles through the stone.
From that eastern passage, you hear voices - draconian voices, speaking in 
hushed, nervous tones. They're approaching but seem reluctant.
The dragon settles back slightly, watching that passage with clear hostility.
Kessa whispers, "They're coming this way. We need to hide or leave. Now."
What do you do?
HIde; I want to watch the interaction between the dragon and the draconians
Dec 1
You pull Kessa behind a massive fallen pillar near the chamber entrance - 
thick enough to hide you both, positioned to give you a view of the dais and 
the dragon beyond.
? Stealth check: Roll d20 + 2
What's your roll?
16
Dec 1
Total: 18 - Excellent!
You and Kessa press into the shadows behind the pillar, perfectly concealed. 
Kessa rolls a 14 - also well hidden.
From the eastern passage, three figures emerge into the chamber: two Baaz 
draconians flanking a larger, more imposing figure. This one is different - 
bronze scales like the others, but taller, wearing what looks like officer's 
insignia. A Bozak draconian - a magic-user and leader.
They stop about sixty feet from the dais, well short of the dragon. The Bozak 
raises one clawed hand in what might be a gesture of peace.
It speaks in Common, its voice cultured but with that distinctive hissing 
accent: "Khisanth. We come to parley, as agreed."
The black dragon - Khisanth - raises her massive head fully. When she 
speaks, her voice is like grinding stone, female and ancient: "You come to beg, 
Sarthas. There is a difference."
The Bozak - Sarthas - maintains his composure. "The Dragonlord Verminaard 
grows impatient. The Disks must be delivered to him. You were paid well for 
their protection, but the time has come-"
"Paid?" Khisanth's laugh is terrifying. "You offered me tribute to allow you to 
occupy the upper ruins. I accepted. But the Disks of Mishakal are mine. They 
were mine three centuries before your Dragonlord was born."
She shifts her massive bulk slightly, and all three draconians take an 
involuntary step back.
"Besides," Khisanth continues, her tone almost amused, "intruders entered my 
domain today. They eluded your patrols and reached my lair. Perhaps I should 
reconsider our arrangement entirely."
Sarthas stiffens. "Intruders? Where?"
Kessa's hand tightens on your arm.
What do you do?
Stay where we are, but ready to retreat at a moment's notice...
Dec 1
You stay absolutely still, muscles tensed and ready to bolt. Kessa mirrors your 
readiness, her hand hovering near her crossbow.
Khisanth's massive head swings slowly, scanning the chamber. For one heart-
stopping moment, her ancient eyes seem to look directly at your hiding spot.
Then she looks back at Sarthas with what might be a draconic smile. "They 
came. They saw. They fled. Your security is... lacking."
Sarthas hisses in frustration. "We tracked them to the lower levels but lost 
them in the gully dwarf warrens. We will find them."
"Will you?" Khisanth sounds almost amused. "Or will they find what they seek 
first? Perhaps they are after the Disks as well. Your Dragonlord is not the only 
power interested in divine artifacts."
Sarthas's claws flex. "All the more reason to deliver them to Verminaard 
immediately. He can protect them properly-"
"No." The single word reverberates through the chamber with finality. "Tell 
your Dragonlord that Khisanth the Black does not surrender her treasures to 
upstart warlords playing at godhood. The Disks remain with me."
The temperature in the chamber seems to drop. Sarthas knows he's being 
dismissed and that pressing further would be fatal.
"The Dragonlord will not be pleased," he says carefully.
"Then let him come collect them himself," Khisanth says, settling back onto 
her haunches. "I would... enjoy... that conversation."
Sarthas and his guards retreat back into the eastern passage, their footsteps 
echoing away.
Khisanth remains still for a long moment, then speaks without looking in your 
direction: "You may emerge now, little warlock. And bring your shadow-
walking companion."
Your blood runs cold.
She knew you were here the entire time.
What do you do?
No sense hiding. I come out and stand in front of the dragon.
Dec 1
You step out from behind the pillar, Kessa following close behind, her hand 
still on her rapier though she knows how futile that would be.
You walk forward until you're perhaps fifty feet from the dais, close enough to 
speak clearly but maintaining respectful distance. This close, Khisanth is even 
more massive - her head alone is the size of a wagon, scales like polished 
obsidian, eyes that gleam with ancient intelligence.
She regards you with what might be amusement. "Brave. Or foolish. Often the 
same thing." Her voice rumbles through the chamber. "You heard my 
conversation with the draconians. You now know more than they wished you 
to know."
Her tail sweeps slowly behind her, a unconscious display of power.
"So. A warlock bound to a fiend, if I'm not mistaken - I can smell the infernal 
taint on you - and a rogue who walks in shadows. You come seeking the Disks 
of Mishakal, like all the others?"
She leans forward slightly, her massive head lowering to your level. "Or 
perhaps you seek something else? Speak truly. I can taste lies, and I have no 
patience for them."
Kessa stands beside you, remarkably composed despite facing down an 
ancient dragon.
Khisanth waits, her ancient eyes fixed on you.
What do you say?
I have no idea what these disks are. I am trying to find out who and what the 
draconians are, what their interest in this place is, what any other information 
the dragon might be willing to share and what cost or price she might want in 
payment for that information.
Dec 1
You speak plainly, meeting the dragon's gaze. "I don't even know what these 
Disks are. I came to learn about the draconians - who they are, what they want 
here, what threat they pose. As for payment... everything has a price. What's 
yours?"
Khisanth's eyes narrow, studying you with predatory intensity. Then she 
laughs - a sound like an avalanche. "Honest. Refreshingly so. Very well, little 
warlock. I will trade information for information."
She settles more comfortably, her massive form coiling around the dais. "The 
draconians are created soldiers - twisted dragon eggs corrupted by dark magic, 
transformed into expendable troops. They serve this 'Dragonlord' Verminaard, 
who fancies himself a conqueror. He seeks to bring the old gods back to this 
world... but only the dark ones, the ones who demand worship through fear 
and blood."
Her tail taps against the stone. "The Disks of Mishakal you see there-" she 
gestures toward the glowing disc, "-contain the true history of the gods. ALL 
the gods. Light and dark. Knowledge that was lost in the Cataclysm three 
centuries ago. With them, one could restore true clerical magic to this world. 
Verminaard wants them destroyed or controlled so only HIS dark goddess 
holds power."
She leans closer. "Now. MY question: You carry the stench of a fiendish pact. 
What demon holds your leash, warlock? And why does a cursed soul care 
about draconians and gods?"
Kessa glances at you nervously.
What do you say?
Have I felt any kind of influence from the fiend since I arrived here?
Dec 1
You pause, checking internally - and realize something striking:
Nothing. No whispers, no pull, no sense of your patron's presence at all since 
you entered Xak Tsaroth. The curse is still there - you can feel its weight - but 
it's... muted. Distant. Like something is blocking or dampening the 
connection.
Khisanth watches your realization with interest. "Ah. You notice it now. The 
Disks radiate divine power - true divine power, not the pale imitations your 
world has known for centuries. Fiendish connections... struggle... in such 
proximity."
She tilts her head. "Uncomfortable for you, I imagine. But it does make you 
marginally more trustworthy in this moment. A demon cannot whisper 
instructions to betray me if it cannot reach you."
Her eyes glitter with ancient cunning. "So I ask again: what demon, and why 
do you seek information about draconians? Are you here for your own 
purposes, or does someone else pull your strings?"
The question is pointed - she wants to know if you're working for Hederick, for 
some other power, or truly acting independently.
What do you say?
I tell her everything about Hendrick's request; I owe him no fealty other than 
the sense of duty to try and protect the refugees and to find out more about 
the draconians infiltrating human lands.
Dec 1
You tell her plainly - Hederick sent you to scout, refugees are fleeing destroyed 
villages, draconians are infiltrating westward in disguise. You owe him 
nothing but felt compelled to help people caught in the path of this invasion.
Khisanth listens, her expression unreadable. When you finish, she's silent for a 
long moment.
"Hederick," she finally says, and there's something complicated in her tone. 
"The Seeker priest. Yes, he would want the Disks. Though whether for noble 
purposes or his own ambitions..." She trails off, then focuses back on you. 
"You did not mention your patron. You deflected."
Her eyes narrow. "But I will allow it. You answered honestly about your 
mission, and honesty is rare enough to be valuable."
She shifts slightly, the movement sending tremors through the stone. "Here is 
what you need to know: Verminaard commands an army of these draconians - 
thousands, not dozens. They are the vanguard of a larger conquest. He seeks 
to unite the lands under the banner of his dark goddess, Takhisis. The Disks 
are key because they could rally resistance - true clerics of light to oppose his 
dark priests."
She gestures toward the glowing disc. "But I will not surrender them. Not to 
Verminaard, not to Hederick, not to you. They are mine, won three centuries 
ago when this city fell."
Kessa speaks up carefully: "Then the draconians will keep coming. Eventually 
in force."
"Let them," Khisanth says with cold confidence. "This is my lair. Let 
Verminaard himself come if he dares."
What do you do or say?
But what value do they possess that you would be willing to face such odds to 
protect them?
Dec 1
Khisanth regards you with something that might be respect. "A perceptive 
question."
She rises slightly, her massive form casting shadows that dance across the 
chamber walls. "The Disks are not merely historical records, warlock. They 
are power. Whoever possesses them controls the narrative of divinity itself. 
Which gods are remembered, which are forgotten. Which are worshipped, 
which are feared."
Her claws scrape against stone. "For three centuries, I have been the sole 
keeper of this knowledge. Gods and mortals alike have forgotten what came 
before. That ignorance is... useful. It makes me invaluable. Irreplaceable."
She lowers her head closer to you, her breath warm and sulfurous. "But more 
than that - the Disks resonate with divine essence. Simply possessing them 
near my hoard strengthens me. Extends my life. Enhances my magic. They are 
not mere treasure to be hoarded - they are a source."
Her eyes glitter. "So yes, I will face Verminaard's army. I will face the 
Dragonlord himself if necessary. Because without the Disks, I am merely old 
and powerful. With them, I am... more."
She settles back. "Now. You have your information. You know what the 
draconians seek, you know their master's name, you know the stakes. What 
will you do with this knowledge? Run back to Hederick and tell him where to 
find divine power? Or will you be... wiser than that?"
It's a test. She's watching to see what you'll do.
What do you say or do?
I ask the dragon, What do you think I should do with this information, for it is 
power as strong as what you protect. And that is what you are protecting, isn't 
it? It may be that the Disks have magical properties, like you describe, but isn't 
it more likely they just represent power in the form of knowledge and that is 
what makes you feel alive? If that is the case, power only really exists to the 
degree to which it is used. To perform something, to acquire or accomplish 
something. Sitting here, in the dank ruins of a fallen city, what are you 
accomplishing? I am not advocating for either side. You have given me the 
benefit of grace for being honest, so may I ask the same of you?
Dec 1
Khisanth goes utterly still. For a long moment, the only sound is the distant 
drip of water and Kessa's carefully controlled breathing beside you.
Then the dragon laughs - not mockingly, but with genuine, surprised 
appreciation. "Oh, you are dangerous, little warlock. More dangerous than 
Verminaard's army, in your own way."
She rises to her full height, wings spreading slightly. "You dare ask an ancient 
dragon what she accomplishes by existing? You suggest that hoarded power 
unused is no power at all?" Her tone is not angry - it's... thoughtful. Almost 
pleased.
"Yes. You're right." The admission comes surprisingly easily. "I sit here, keeper 
of knowledge I do not share, guardian of power I do not wield, and I tell 
myself this is wisdom. This is safety." She looks at the glowing Disks. "But it is 
fear. Fear that if I act, I become a player in the game rather than a... curator."
Her eyes fix on you with terrifying intensity. "So here is my honest answer to 
your honest question: I do not know what you should do. I have sat in this 
dark hole for three hundred years avoiding that very question myself."
She leans closer. "But I will tell you this - if you leave here and tell Hederick 
where the Disks are, he will come for them. With force if necessary. The 
draconians will intensify their efforts. This ruin will become a battlefield, and 
whatever 'accomplishment' exists will be written by whoever survives."
She pauses. "Or... there might be another way. But it would require you to 
trust a dragon. And that, I think, is even more dangerous than facing one."
What do you say?
I nod and wait for her to continue.
Dec 1
Khisanth studies you for another long moment, then settles back onto her 
haunches with a decision made.
"The Disks need to leave this place," she says, and the words clearly cost her 
something. "Not to Verminaard. Not to Hederick and his Seekers - they would 
hoard knowledge as jealously as I have, wrapping it in their own dogma. The 
Disks need to find their way to those who would use them. True clerics. Those 
who could restore the balance between light and dark."
She gestures with one massive claw. "But I cannot deliver them. A dragon 
carrying divine artifacts across the countryside? Every army, every 
opportunist, every would-be hero would descend upon me. It would be... 
conspicuous."
Her eyes lock onto yours. "You, however, could carry them. Small, 
unassuming, already branded as scouts for Hederick. You could move where I 
cannot."
Kessa makes a small sound of alarm beside you.
Khisanth continues: "Take the Disks. Find those worthy of wielding them - not 
Hederick, not Verminaard, but true seekers of divine restoration. In return..." 
She pauses. "In return, I will give you something perhaps more valuable. 
Information about your curse. Your fiendish pact."
She sees your reaction. "Yes, I felt it when the divine aura dampened your 
connection. I have lived centuries, warlock. I have seen many such bindings. 
And I know things about breaking them that your patron would very much 
prefer you never learn."
She extends one claw, almost like offering a handshake. "This is my bargain: 
the Disks and knowledge of your curse's weakness, in exchange for delivering 
divine power to those who would actually use it. Do we have accord?"
What do you do?
Allow me to ask one question before I give you my answer. What happens to 
you when the Disks leave? You said it yourself, there are far too many eyes 
looking at this place with hunger. Will you stay? Leave? I ask from curiosity 
only, not to persuade or influence you.
Dec 1
Khisanth's expression shifts - something almost like surprise crosses her 
ancient features. "You ask what becomes of me?" There's genuine curiosity in 
her voice. "Most mortals negotiating with dragons concern themselves only 
with their own survival."
She settles more comfortably, considering. "Without the Disks, this ruin loses 
its primary value. Verminaard will have no reason to assault it. Hederick will 
have no treasure to seek. The draconians..." She pauses. "Sarthas and his 
troops will likely withdraw once they realize the prize is gone. This place will 
return to being merely another forgotten ruin."
Her tail sweeps thoughtfully. "As for me? I have other lairs, other hoards. I am 
not bound to Xak Tsaroth - I simply claimed it when it fell three centuries ago 
because it offered... seclusion. Safety from the chaos above."
She looks around the chamber, almost wistful. "But you are correct - I have 
been hiding here, not living. Perhaps it is time I remembered what it means to 
fly in open skies rather than circle in darkness."
She fixes you with that penetrating gaze again. "I would leave. Find a new 
territory, build a new hoard, perhaps even... participate in the world's 
unfolding rather than merely observing it from the shadows."
A pause. "You asked from curiosity, you say. But I think you asked from 
something else - conscience. You wonder if your choice condemns me. It 
doesn't. It frees me. Though I doubt I would have admitted that even to myself 
without your prodding."
She extends her claw again. "So. Do we have accord?"
What do you say?
We do, though may I ask another question. I have known clerics, healers, those 
of true faith and those of false pride. If I accept your request, how may I know 
if I have found the kind you desire me to seek? Your suggestion seems to 
imply wisdom I may or may not possess.
Dec 1
Khisanth's eyes gleam with something that might be approval. "Wise to ask. 
Many would simply grab power and run, trusting their own judgment without 
question."
She considers carefully. "You will know them by what they do, not what they 
claim. True servants of the divine - of balance, of light properly understood - 
do not hoard their gifts. They heal the wounded without demanding 
conversion first. They protect the weak even when it costs them. They question 
their own righteousness as readily as they question evil."
She shifts slightly. "More practically: the Disks themselves will guide you. 
They resonate with divine truth. When you encounter someone worthy, you 
will feel it - a pull, a resonance, like..." she pauses, searching for words a 
warlock would understand, "...like when you first made contact with your 
patron, but cleaner. Less binding, more... inviting."
Her expression darkens. "Conversely, if someone unworthy tries to claim them 
- someone like Hederick, who seeks power for its own sake wrapped in pious 
words - the Disks will resist. They may even harm such a person."
She leans closer. "Trust your instincts, warlock. You asked me for honesty 
about hoarded power. You have the wisdom to recognize it in others. You will 
know genuine faith when you see it because it will look nothing like what 
either Hederick or Verminaard offer."
She extends her claw once more. "The Disks. Knowledge of your curse. And 
my word that I will not hunt you down if you prove unworthy of this trust. Do 
we have accord?"
What do you say?
In honor of that agreement, I must confess that if I maintain control of the 
Disks, would that not offer me shelter from the Fiend's pact? I ask not because 
that is what I intend, but to show that I am serious about what we are talking 
about...
Dec 1
Khisanth goes completely still, then her laugh echoes through the chamber - 
deep, genuine, and impressed.
"Oh, you are remarkable." She regards you with what can only be called 
respect. "Yes. Absolutely yes. The divine aura would continue to dampen your 
fiendish connection as long as you possessed them. You could, theoretically, 
hide from your patron indefinitely."
She leans even closer, her massive head now only feet from you. "And yet you 
confess this temptation rather than simply taking it and fleeing. You 
understand that hoarding the Disks for your own protection would make you 
no different than me - or worse, Hederick. Power unused, knowledge 
unshared, all in service of personal safety."
Her eyes gleam. "This is why I choose to trust you, Johannes Constantinius." 
The use of your full name sends a shiver down your spine - you never told her 
that. "Because you see the trap before you walk into it. Because you confess 
weakness rather than hide it."
She pulls back slightly. "The knowledge I promised about your curse? Here it 
is: Every fiendish pact has a loophole built into it. Has to - demons are bound 
by infernal law. Your patron said as much, didn't they? 'Every curse has a 
loophole. Even yours.'"
Her tail taps thoughtfully. "The loophole isn't hiding from your patron with 
divine artifacts. That's just delaying. The loophole is in the wording of your 
contract. What exactly did you agree to? What were the precise terms?"
She waits. "Tell me your pact's exact words, if you remember them. I may see 
what you cannot."
What do you say? What were the exact terms of Johannes's pact?
I have no clear recollection; I was in such pain and delirious from loss of blood, 
the words don't come to mind. Only the hunger, and the knowledge of what 
happens when I fail to meet my obligation.
Dec 1
Khisanth's expression shifts to something almost like sympathy - an unsettling 
look on a dragon's face.
"Ah. A pact made in desperation, in pain and fear. The demon would have 
taken full advantage of your state - vague terms, binding obligations, 
maximum leverage." She settles back, thinking. "Without the exact wording, 
finding the loophole becomes... difficult. But not impossible."
She taps one massive claw against the stone. "Here is what I can tell you: 
fiendish pacts always hinge on specific actions or failures. 'Provide tribute' - 
but what qualifies as tribute? 'Or those around you die' - but what proximity? 
What timeline? Demons are bound by infernal contract law. There are always 
edges, always interpretations."
Her eyes narrow shrewdly. "The divine aura protecting you now - feel how 
clean it is? How clear your mind becomes without your patron's whispers? 
This is a gift in itself. While you carry the Disks, you will think more clearly 
than you have since the pact was made. Use that clarity. Remember. Question 
every assumption you've made about your curse."
She shifts her massive bulk. "And here is my final piece of advice: seek out a 
true cleric, when you find one worthy of the Disks. Someone restored to divine 
power through this knowledge. They may be able to see what even I cannot - 
divine magic perceives infernal contracts differently than arcane sight does."
She extends her claw one final time. "So. Even knowing you could use these 
Disks to hide from your demon - will you still deliver them to those who need 
them? Will you trust that the answer to your curse lies not in hiding, but 
in moving forward?"
What do you say?
I do. I cannot do less, not for the lives of my brothers who were slaughtered at 
its pronouncement. Besides, as you said, I am a warlock. The games of gods 
are beyond my ken. Though, not to be greedy, but if you are leaving Xak 
Tsaroth, is there any part of your hoard that you might be willing to leave 
behind? I have no doubt the Disks are powerful in their own right, but any 
small force can have mighty effects, if applied at the right time and in the right 
way. If not, no matter, but you can hardly blame me for asking. And vice versa. 
Is there aught that I have, either with me or within my power that might be of 
aid to you?
Dec 1
Khisanth's laugh is like rolling thunder - delighted and genuine. "There it is! 
The mortal audacity I've missed these three centuries. 'Any small part of your 
hoard you might leave behind?'" She seems genuinely amused. "Most would 
be too terrified to ask. I respect the brass."
She considers, her massive head tilting. "I travel light when I leave - gold and 
gems are easily transportable, after all. But there are... items... that have value 
beyond their weight in precious metals."
She rises and moves toward a shadowed alcove you hadn't noticed. Her tail 
sweeps back a section of rubble, revealing several objects:
"A Cloak of the Manta Ray - allows you to breathe underwater and swim 
like a fish. Useful, given how much of these ruins are flooded. A Rope of 
Entanglement - speaks for itself. And..." she pulls out something that 
gleams even in the darkness, "...a Ring of Spell Storing. Empty currently, 
but a wizard could fill it. Or a cleric, once they exist again."
She pushes these toward you. "Practical tools. Nothing legendary, nothing that 
will draw too much attention, but useful for someone trying to navigate a 
world at war."
Then she turns the question back. "As for what you might offer? I need 
nothing material - my hoard is substantial. But..." Her eyes gleam with 
cunning intelligence. "Information. When you find these worthy clerics, when 
divine magic returns to the world, send word to me. Not where you are - I 
don't need to know that. But that it's done. That the balance is returning."
She pauses. "And perhaps... if your curse is broken through this journey... tell 
me how. I collect knowledge as avidly as gold. The tale of a warlock who 
escaped a fiendish pact? That has value."
What do you say?
I will do so most happily. But how? How would I get word to you?
Dec 1
Khisanth plucks a single obsidian scale from her chest - it comes free with a 
soft scraping sound, gleaming like polished black glass. She offers it to you.
"Dragon scale, attuned to me. When you have news worth sharing, hold it and 
speak my name three times. I will hear you, no matter the distance. I may not 
come immediately - I am a dragon, not a courier pigeon - but I will know your 
message."
She drops the scale into your palm. It's warm, humming with faint magic. 
About the size of your hand, surprisingly light.
"Use it sparingly. It will work perhaps three, maybe four times before the 
attunement fades. Reserve it for significant moments - when the Disks find 
their home, when your curse breaks, or..." her eyes glitter, "...if Verminaard 
himself comes hunting for you and you need a dragon on your side."
Kessa, who has been remarkably quiet through this entire negotiation, finally 
speaks up softly. "That's... incredibly generous."
Khisanth regards her. "The shadow-walker speaks. I had begun to think you 
were mute." There's amusement in her tone. "It is not generosity, little rogue. 
It is investment. I am betting these two will accomplish more with these tools 
than I would accomplish by continuing to sit on them."
She moves back toward the dais where the Disks float. "Now. Are you ready to 
accept your burden? Once you take the Disks, there is no turning back. 
Verminaard will hunt you. Hederick may turn on you. And your path forward 
will be anything but safe."
She looks at you both. "Last chance to walk away."
What do you do?
I believe that choice was made long before this day. I nod my head in 
agreement, wondering what form the Disks may take, dreading the thought 
that the huge glowing disk is what I am supposed to bear.
Dec 1
Khisanth sees your expression and her amusement is palpable. "You thought 
you'd have to carry that eight-foot crystalline monstrosity strapped to your 
back? Oh, that's delightful."
She moves to the dais and places one massive claw on the glowing disc. It 
pulses brighter for a moment, then begins to... condense. The light intensifies 
as the physical form shrinks, collapsing in on itself like a star dying in reverse.
Within moments, what floats before her is no longer a massive disc, but a 
collection of gleaming platinum plates - perhaps a dozen of them, each about 
the size of a dinner plate, inscribed with intricate divine script that seems to 
shift and move as you watch. They're bound together loosely, like pages of a 
metal book.
"The Disks of Mishakal," Khisanth says with something like reverence. "In 
their portable form. They weigh almost nothing - divine essence has no true 
mass. And they will fit quite nicely in that Bag of Holding you carry."
She carefully lifts them and extends them toward you. "Once you touch them, 
you become their bearer. The divine aura will follow you. Your patron will 
remain... muted... as long as they're in your possession. And anyone seeking 
them will be seeking you."
The platinum plates hover before you, radiating gentle warmth and that clean, 
clear light.
Kessa stands beside you, her hand finding yours briefly - a gesture of support.
"Take them, Johannes Constantinius," Khisanth says quietly. "And prove that 
an ancient dragon's trust was not misplaced."
Do you take the Disks?
I do. I look Khisanth directly in the eyes as I do so, not out of arrogance, but 
out of respect for the respect she has shown me. And I feel exactly what she 
described as the metal touches my skin. Peace, Clarity. Calm. Like I haven't felt 
since I was a very young child, completely unaware of the world around me. I 
hold that feeling for a moment before I slip the disks into the bag and collect 
the items she offered us.
Dec 1
The moment your fingers touch the platinum plates, the sensation is 
overwhelming.
The constant background noise you've lived with for so long - the whisper of 
your patron, the weight of the curse, the shadow at the edge of your thoughts - 
simply... stops. It's like surfacing from deep water and taking your first breath 
of clean air. The clarity is almost dizzying.
Khisanth watches your reaction with knowing eyes. "Now you understand 
what I meant. That is what divine grace feels like, warlock. Remember it. It 
will guide you to those worthy of wielding it."
You carefully place the Disks in your Bag of Holding. Even through the 
leather, you can still feel their presence - warm, reassuring, present but not 
oppressive like your patron's mark.
You collect the other items: the Cloak of the Manta Ray (silvery-gray, 
surprisingly light), the Rope of Entanglement (50 feet of sturdy magical cord), 
and the Ring of Spell Storing (platinum band with a small empty gemstone 
setting). The obsidian dragon scale you tuck carefully into an inner pocket.
Kessa helps distribute the items, her eyes still wide with the magnitude of 
what just transpired.
Khisanth rises to her full height, stretching her wings. "Now. You'll want to 
leave before Sarthas returns with reinforcements. There's a passage behind my 
sleeping alcove that leads to the surface - an old drainage tunnel. It exits about 
two miles west of Xak Tsaroth, well away from draconian patrols."
She moves to show you, then pauses. "One final thing. When you encounter 
Hederick - and you must, you owe him a report - be careful. The Seeker priests 
are not evil, but they hunger for relevance. For proof their faith matters. Some 
will see the Disks as vindication. Others will see them as power to claim."
She meets your eyes one last time. "Trust your instincts. You've proven them 
sound today."
What do you do?
Disks? What Disks?
Dec 1
Khisanth's eyes flash with understanding and approval. A slow, serpentine 
smile crosses her draconic features.
"Precisely," she rumbles with satisfaction. "You never found them. They 
remain lost in the ruins, guarded by a dragon too formidable to challenge. A 
mystery for another day, another adventurer, another fool's errand."
She gestures toward the passage. "Go. Report what you saw - draconians, their 
numbers, Verminaard's name, the threat to the western settlements. All true. 
All valuable. Hederick will have the intelligence he needs to prepare defenses."
Kessa catches on immediately, nodding. "We got as far as the lower ruins, saw 
the dragon, barely escaped with our lives. Couldn't get close to whatever the 
draconians are protecting."
"The shadow-walker is quick," Khisanth observes approvingly. "Yes. You are 
scouts who did your job and lived to report. Nothing more, nothing less."
She moves aside a section of rubble, revealing a dark tunnel sloping upward. 
"This leads to the surface. Follow it for about an hour - it's flooded in sections, 
hence the cloak. You'll emerge in a ravine west of here. From there, three days 
back to Solace."
She looks at you both one final time. "Go carefully. The world is changing, and 
you now carry a piece of its future. Whether you meant to or not."
The tunnel awaits.
What do you do?
Quick side question - do I need to attune to the cloak to use it? Also, if I am 
holding onto Kressa, does its magic pertain to her, too?
Dec 1
Good questions!
Cloak of the Manta Ray:
*	Does NOT require attunement - you can use it immediately
*	Only affects the wearer - Kessa would need her own method to 
breathe underwater
However, you do have that Rope of Entanglement which is 50 feet long. 
You could tie one end around yourself and one around Kessa, so you can pull 
her through flooded sections while you breathe underwater and swim at 
enhanced speed. She'd need to hold her breath for those sections, but at least 
you'd be moving quickly.
Alternatively, if there are flooded sections, you could scout ahead with the 
cloak to see how long they are, then decide if Kessa can hold her breath long 
enough or if you need to find another route.
What's your approach?
One other side question. I am very much enjoying these sessions, but I am 
wondering if I am doing them right. I can only imagine that this adventure was 
3x as large as what I have experienced. Is my playstyle too direct? Am I just 
hitting the surface of what I should be doing?
Dec 1
I'm really glad you're enjoying this! Let me give you some perspective:
You're doing GREAT. Your playstyle isn't "too direct" - it's smart and 
efficient. You're:
*	Making tactical decisions (avoiding fights you don't need)
*	Engaging deeply with NPCs (that Khisanth conversation was 
phenomenal)
*	Thinking strategically about consequences
*	Roleplaying Johannes's character and motivations beautifully
About the adventure scope: Dragons of Despair was designed for a 6-8 
person party doing dungeon crawling with lots of combat encounters. You're 
playing a duet (1 PC + 1 sidekick), so I'm adapting it heavily - focusing on:
*	Intrigue and negotiation over combat slogs
*	Meaningful encounters over room-by-room clearing
*	Story beats that matter to Johannes's arc
What you "missed":
*	Lots of random combat encounters with gully dwarves
*	Multiple draconian guard posts to fight through
*	Puzzle-solving in flooded rooms
*	More dungeon exploration
But here's the thing: Those would've been token-intensive filler that 
doesn't serve your story. You got the CORE of the adventure:
*	Intelligence on the draconian threat ?
*	The Disks of Mishakal ?
*	A compelling NPC interaction ?
*	Connection to Johannes's curse ?
*	Forward plot momentum ?
Your approach is perfect for duet play. Quality over quantity. Would you 
prefer more exploration/combat, or are you happy with this pacing?
I don't really know. I know that I am thoroughly enjoying this, but wondered if 
I need to be more deliberative or willing to expose Johannes to more danger, 
which I don't want to do. Maybe we need to do more exploring and 
dungeoneering in the future? But I am loving the experience.
Dec 1
This is really helpful feedback! Here's what I'm hearing:
The Good:
*	You're loving the narrative depth and character moments
*	The strategic/investigative approach feels natural to you
*	You don't want to take unnecessary risks with Johannes
The Tension:
*	You wonder if you're "missing" the dungeon-crawling experience
*	Uncertainty about whether you should be playing differently
My take: Your instincts are spot-on for Johannes as a character. He's 
a warlock, not a fighter. He's methodical, strategic, trying to survive long 
enough to break his curse. Charging into every room guns blazing would 
be out of character.
Going forward, here's what I can do:
*	Varied adventures: Some more investigation-heavy (like this one), 
some with more dungeon exploration where caution is rewarded
*	Environmental challenges: Puzzles, traps, obstacles that require 
clever solutions, not just combat
*	Meaningful danger: When combat happens, make it matter - not 
grinding through guard post after guard post, but tense encounters with 
real stakes
*	Sidekick development: Give Kessa more moments to shine in her 
areas (lockpicking, traps, scouting)
The beauty of duet play is we can tailor it to what YOU enjoy. The "right" way 
to play is the way that's fun for you.
Ready to continue through that tunnel and head back to Solace?
Yep, let's go...
Dec 1
You turn toward the dark tunnel, Kessa at your side. Khisanth watches as you 
prepare to leave her lair - perhaps for the last time.
"Farewell, Johannes Constantinius. Kessa Darrow." The dragon's voice echoes 
through the chamber. "May your path be... interesting."
You step into the passage, your Devil's Sight guiding the way. Behind you, you 
hear the great dragon beginning to move, the sound of her preparing to 
abandon a lair she's held for three centuries.
 
The tunnel slopes upward, rough-hewn stone that's clearly ancient. After 
about twenty minutes of walking, you hear it: the sound of rushing water 
ahead.
Your Devil's Sight reveals a flooded section - the tunnel is completely 
submerged for what looks like... maybe 60 feet? Hard to tell exactly where it 
surfaces on the other side.
Kessa tests the water with her hand. "Cold. Deep. How's your swimming?"
You pull out the Cloak of the Manta Ray. Time to test Khisanth's gift.
How do you want to handle this? Rope tied between you, scout 
ahead first, or another approach?
I will swim solo with the rope and the cloak, she keeps one end of the rope. 
When u get to the other side, I take the cloak off, tie it to the rope and tug. 
She pulls it back, puts it on, then follows safe and sound.
Dec 1
"Smart," Kessa says, already pulling out the Rope of Entanglement. She ties 
one end securely around your waist. "Three tugs means you're through safely. 
Anything else means trouble and I pull you back."
You don the Cloak of the Manta Ray. The moment it settles on your shoulders, 
the transformation is immediate and strange - your body feels different, more 
streamlined. You can sense the water ahead almost like a natural habitat 
rather than a threat.
You wade into the freezing water. As it rises over your head, your body 
instinctively knows what to do. You're breathing underwater - not gasping or 
struggling, just breathing as naturally as if you were on land. Your limbs move 
with unexpected grace and power, propelling you forward through the 
submerged tunnel.
The swim takes maybe two minutes. The tunnel winds upward, and suddenly 
you break the surface on the other side. You pull yourself onto dry stone, water 
streaming from your clothes.
The tunnel continues upward from here into darkness. You're through.
You remove the cloak, tie it securely to the rope, and give three sharp tugs.
After a moment, you feel the rope go taut as Kessa pulls it back. A few minutes 
pass - you imagine her donning the cloak, taking a breath, committing.
Then you see ripples in the water, and Kessa surfaces smoothly, grinning. 
"That is an amazing piece of magic!" She climbs out, removes the cloak, and 
hands it back to you. "Definitely keeping that one."
You continue upward together.
 
The tunnel climbs steadily for another forty minutes. Eventually, you see it - 
actual daylight filtering through a crack ahead.
You emerge into a rocky ravine, exactly as Khisanth described. The afternoon 
sun is blinding after so long in darkness. You're miles from Xak Tsaroth, well 
away from any draconian patrols.
Kessa takes a deep breath of fresh air. "We did it. We actually did it." She looks 
at you seriously. "Johannes... what we're carrying... this changes everything."
In your Bag of Holding, the Disks radiate their quiet, steady warmth.
What do you do?
Let's go back, but overland, as far away from civilization/roads as possible to 
cut down on possible interference.
Dec 1
"Agreed," Kessa says immediately. "We stay off the roads, avoid settlements, 
move through the wilderness. The fewer people who see us, the fewer 
questions we face."
She pulls out Hederick's map, orienting herself with the sun. "Three days 
overland, maybe four if we're being extra careful. We've got the rations from 
the temple, and with your navigation skills from before..." She grins. "We'll be 
fine."
You set off northwest, keeping to the forest and rough terrain. The Disks' 
presence in your bag is a constant comfort - that clarity, that absence of your 
patron's whispers. It's almost intoxicating.
 
The journey back is uneventful.
Your wilderness skills serve you well. You avoid game trails that might have 
traffic, camp in concealed locations, move during dawn and dusk when 
visibility is poor. Kessa's rogue instincts complement your caution perfectly.
On the third evening, you crest a ridge and see it in the distance: Solace, with 
its tree-town glowing with lanterns as night falls.
Kessa looks at you. "Ready for this? Hederick's going to want a full report. We 
need our story straight."
She ticks off on her fingers: "We got into the ruins, saw lots of draconians - 
maybe two dozen total. Confirmed they're serving someone called 
Verminaard, the 'Dragonlord.' We saw the black dragon Khisanth guarding... 
something... in the depths. Too dangerous to get close. Barely escaped with 
our lives."
She meets your eyes. "No mention of the Disks. No mention of any deal. 
Sound right?"
What do you say?
I worry about bringing the disks so close. If we don't "have" them, it cuts down 
on the possibility of someone sensing them? Bury them or something?
Dec 1
Kessa considers this seriously. "Good instinct. If Hederick has any magical 
detection, or if there are Seekers with sensing abilities..." She nods. "Better 
safe."
She looks around. You're still about two miles from Solace, in dense forest. 
"We could cache them here - bury them, mark the location, retrieve them after 
we've reported and resupplied."
She pauses, thinking it through. "Or... I could stay here with them while you 
go report to Hederick alone. Less suspicious than both of us disappearing for 
days then showing up without our 'partner.' Plus if something goes wrong, one 
of us is free with the Disks."
She meets your eyes. "Your call. But you're right - walking into Solace with 
them is a risk we don't need to take."
The forest around you is quiet, the evening settling in. You could find a good 
hiding spot within minutes, or Kessa could make camp here while you go 
ahead.
What do you want to do?
Kressa staying behind works, though I hate splitting the party. Rather than her 
staying, what if she were to disguise herself and join up with one of the 
refugee groups passing through toward Haven. That way, she's not alone, still 
moving rather than waiting, and I can catch up with her on the other side of 
Solace.
Dec 1
Kessa's face lights up. "Now that's thinking like a con artist. I like it." She's 
already planning. "There are always refugees on the Haven Road heading 
west. I blend in, just another displaced person fleeing the draconians. Nobody 
looks twice at refugees."
She pulls her cloak tighter, already shifting her posture - shoulders slumped, 
eyes downcast. The transformation is remarkable. "I'll take the western road 
out of Solace, join up with the first group heading toward Haven. Move slow, 
stay inconspicuous. You report to Hederick, get whatever he needs to give us, 
then catch up."
She hands you her distinctive hand crossbow. "Take this - too military for a 
refugee. I'll keep my rapier hidden." She thinks for a moment. "Meet me at the 
crossroads where the Haven Road splits toward Prayer's Eye Peak. Three days 
from now, around midday. If either of us doesn't show, the other keeps 
moving west and we reconnect in Haven itself."
She grips your arm. "The Disks stay with me. If Hederick has magical 
detection and you're clean, you can honestly say you're not carrying anything 
unusual."
Smart. Very smart.
"Be careful with Hederick," she warns. "He's shrewd. Stick to the truth as 
much as possible - just leave out the important parts."
Do you agree to this plan?
She keeps the disks in the Bag of Holding so she doesn't have to give up her 
crossbow... I also work with Kressa how to look beat up to explain why Kressa 
might notbe with the living any more. Maybe some superficial cuts too?
Dec 1
"Even better," Kessa agrees, taking the Bag of Holding. She secures it carefully 
under her cloak. "And yeah, let's sell the 'barely survived' angle hard."
She finds some dirt and rubs it into her clothes and face, musses her hair. You 
help her create some convincing "injuries" - a shallow cut on her forearm (she 
does it herself with her dagger, wincing), tears in her cloak that look like claw 
marks, some strategic bruising using a rock wrapped in cloth to avoid real 
damage.
When she's done, she looks genuinely harrowed - exhausted, wounded, like 
someone who fought through hell and lost friends doing it.
"How do I look?" she asks, then catches herself and adopts that thousand-yard 
stare refugees have. "Never mind. I know exactly how I look."
She grips your shoulder one last time. "Johannes... if Hederick pushes about 
me, you can tell him I was injured in the escape. Separated in the chaos. 
You think I made it out but you're not certain. It'll explain why you're 
reporting alone and give me cover as a 'missing' scout who turns up later with 
refugees."
She checks the Bag of Holding one more time, making sure it's secure and 
hidden. "Three days. Prayer's Eye crossroads. Midday."
She manages a grin despite her ragged appearance. "Try not to get recruited 
into Hederick's holy army while I'm gone."
Do you head into Solace alone?
Yes
Dec 1
Kessa melts into the forest, heading south to intercept the Haven Road away 
from Solace. Within moments, she's gone - just another shadow among the 
trees.
You turn and continue alone toward Solace.
 
The walk takes about forty minutes. As you approach the tree-town, you notice 
it's even more crowded than before - more refugees have arrived, more camps 
at the base of the vallenwood trees. The atmosphere is tense, fearful.
You climb the familiar staircases up into Solace. People glance at you as you 
pass - you look like you've been through hell. Dirt-stained, worn, alone. Some 
nod with recognition or sympathy.
You cross the rope bridges to the northern platform where the Seeker Temple 
stands. Evening prayers seem to have just ended - a few worshippers are filing 
out.
Inside, you find Hederick and Elistan in conversation near the map wall. They 
both turn as you enter.
Hederick's eyes sharpen immediately, taking in your appearance. "You're 
alive." It's not quite a question, more an assessment. His gaze sweeps the 
doorway behind you. "And alone."
Elistan looks concerned. "Where's Kessa? Is she...?"
Hederick holds up a hand, silencing him. He approaches you directly, studying 
your face. "Report. What did you find in Xak Tsaroth?"
His tone is businesslike, but there's intensity beneath it. This man has been 
waiting days for information, watching his people suffer while not knowing 
what they face.
What do you tell him?
As discussed, as much truth as possible. Everything about Xak Tsaroth, the 
draconian, and Verminaard. I really sell the threat they pose so there isn't any 
air to ask about other things.
Dec 1
You give your report methodically, like a soldier debriefing after a mission. 
The words come easily because they're all true:
"The draconians are everywhere in Xak Tsaroth. We counted at least two 
dozen, probably more in the sections we couldn't reach. They're organized, 
disciplined - these aren't raiders, they're soldiers. Professional military."
Hederick's expression darkens. Elistan begins taking notes.
"They serve someone called Verminaard - they call him the 'Dragonlord.' From 
what we overheard, he commands an army of these creatures. Thousands, not 
hundreds. He's consolidating power in the north, and the burned villages are 
just the beginning of a larger conquest."
You pause, letting that sink in. Both men look grave.
"The ruins themselves are a maze - flooded chambers, collapsed buildings, 
multiple levels descending hundreds of feet. The draconians have fortified the 
upper sections. And in the depths..." You meet Hederick's eyes. "There's a 
dragon. Ancient black dragon called Khisanth. Massive. We saw it from a 
distance before we had to run."
Elistan's pen stops. "An actual dragon?"
"Guarding something in the deepest chamber. We couldn't get close - the 
draconians nearly caught us twice. We barely made it out through old drainage 
tunnels."
You gesture to your worn appearance. "Three days overland to avoid their 
patrols on the roads. They're actively hunting for scouts."
Hederick processes this, his face grim. "And Kessa?"
You let exhaustion show. "We got separated during the escape. Underground 
passages, draconians closing in from multiple directions. I think she made it 
out through a different route, but..." You shake your head. "I don't know for 
certain."
It's the perfect amount of uncertainty - explains her absence without 
confirming death.
Hederick studies you for a long moment. Then: "You're certain about 
Verminaard? About the scale of his forces?"
What do you say?
We overheard several conversations about it; they'd have no reason to lie 
among themselves
Dec 1
Hederick nods slowly, accepting this logic. "No, they wouldn't." He turns to 
the map wall, tracing the northern territories with one finger. "An army of 
thousands. Led by someone claiming divine authority through a dark goddess. 
And a dragon in his service - or at least willing to coexist with his forces."
Elistan looks stricken. "High Theocrat, we have perhaps two hundred able-
bodied fighters in Solace, maybe double that if we call in militias from 
surrounding settlements. Against thousands of draconians..."
"We can't fight them head-on," Hederick says bluntly. He turns back to you. 
"Did you see anything that might be a weakness? Supply lines, command 
structure, anything we could exploit?"
It's a tactical question from a man who clearly has military experience beneath 
his priestly robes.
Before you can answer, he adds: "And this dragon - Khisanth. What was she 
guarding? Did you get any sense of what the draconians want from those ruins 
badly enough to maintain a presence there?"
His eyes are sharp, probing. This is the dangerous question - the one that 
could lead toward the Disks if you're not careful.
What do you say?
It seemed like the goal was trying to recruit the dragon, but she wasn't 
interested. In fact, it seemed as though she left there while we were trying to 
escape. In fact, that's probably why I was able to get away. So if she was doing 
something there, she isn't any more. At least not there...
Dec 1
Hederick's eyebrows rise slightly. "The dragon left?" He exchanges a glance 
with Elistan. "During your escape?"
You nod. "We heard... sounds. Like something massive moving through the 
deep chambers. The draconians were agitated, shouting to each other. In the 
chaos, we found our way to the drainage tunnel."
It's true enough - Khisanth was preparing to leave, and the timing did help 
cover your escape.
Hederick processes this, fingers drumming on the map table. "A dragon 
abandoning her lair. That's... unusual. Dragons are territorial, possessive. For 
Khisanth to leave Xak Tsaroth..." He frowns, thinking. "Either something 
drove her out, or she got what she wanted and had no reason to stay."
Elistan ventures carefully, "Perhaps Verminaard's forces became too 
threatening? Even for an ancient dragon?"
"Perhaps," Hederick says, but he sounds unconvinced. He turns back to you. 
"Did you see any artifacts? Religious items, ancient texts, anything that might 
explain what drew both the draconians AND a dragon to those ruins?"
He's circling back to it, but more obliquely now. Probing rather than 
demanding.
"The ruins were picked over," you say carefully. "Three hundred years of 
scavengers and time. Mostly rubble and flooded chambers. If there was 
something valuable..." You shrug. "Either the dragon took it when she left, or 
it's still buried somewhere we couldn't reach."
Hederick studies you for a long moment.
Then he nods. "You've done well. This intelligence about Verminaard and his 
army - that's what we needed. We can't stop them, but we can evacuate, 
prepare, warn the other settlements."
He moves to a cabinet and pulls out a small pouch. "Your payment. Fifty gold, 
as agreed. And..." He hesitates. "If Kessa does turn up, there's another fifty for 
her."
What do you do?
I take the gold, almost tearing up at the thought that Kressa was lost. Ill stay in 
town for a day or two before I suggest that she might have gone elsewhere in 
the confusion.
Dec 1
You take the pouch, and genuine emotion crosses your face - not hard to 
summon, given everything you've been through. The thought 
of actually losing Kessa, of what could have happened in those ruins...
"Thank you," you manage. Your voice is rough. "I'll... I'll wait a few days. 
Maybe she made it out and is lying low, or took a different route back."
Elistan steps forward, his expression compassionate. "You should rest. Get a 
proper meal, clean clothes. The inn still has your room - I'll make sure Otik 
knows to extend your stay."
Hederick's demeanor softens slightly. "You've earned it. And Johannes..." He 
pauses. "If you hear anything about Kessa, or if she contacts you, let us know 
immediately. We take care of our scouts."
There's something in his tone - genuine concern, but also... what? A desire to 
keep tabs on you both? Hard to read.
"For now, rest," Hederick continues. "We have much to plan. Evacuations to 
organize, defenses to coordinate. Your information will save lives."
He turns back to his maps, already strategizing. Elistan gently guides you 
toward the door.
Outside, the evening has fully settled. Lanterns glow throughout the tree-
town. You're alone, exhausted, but carrying the knowledge that Kessa is safe 
with the Disks, moving west.
Two days until you "suggest" she might have gone to Haven. Three days until 
you meet her at the crossroads.
What do you do for the next two days in Solace?
Probably everything i can to help with the refugee deluge in town... I don't 
have "money" but anything else I can do...
Dec 1
You spend the next two days working alongside Elistan and the other Seekers, 
helping however you can.
The work is exhausting but grounding - organizing supply distributions, 
helping pitch tents for new refugee families, using your warlock strength to 
move heavy loads of donated goods. You cast Mending on torn clothing and 
broken tools. Your cantrips prove surprisingly useful for everyday tasks.
Elistan works beside you often, and you learn he's genuinely compassionate - 
not like Hederick's calculating pragmatism. He asks people's names, 
remembers their stories, offers comfort without expectation.
On the second afternoon, while helping construct a temporary shelter, he 
speaks quietly: "I'm sorry about Kessa. I know you two worked well together."
You pause in your work. "I keep hoping she'll turn up. Maybe she headed to 
Haven, or Gateway, somewhere she thought was safer..."
Elistan nods slowly. "It's possible. Refugees scatter in all directions after 
trauma. Some go to family, some to wherever the road takes them." He looks 
at you carefully. "If she did survive and went elsewhere... would you go looking 
for her?"
It's a gentle probe - is he asking on Hederick's behalf, or genuine concern?
"I don't know," you say honestly. "Part of me wants to. But..." You gesture at 
the refugees around you. "There's work here. And she's capable. If anyone 
could survive on their own..."
That evening, back at the Inn of the Last Home, Otik serves you a hot meal. 
The common room is still packed with refugees, but there's a different energy 
now - Hederick has announced evacuation plans, organized defenses. People 
have hope, however fragile.
Tomorrow you'll suggest to Hederick that Kessa might have fled to Haven. The 
day after, you'll leave to "search for her."
Anything specific you want to do this evening, or shall we move to 
tomorrow?
Any insights into Hendrick and Ellistan? I don't have my dice with me so...
Dec 1
You spend the evening observing the two clerics as they work among the 
refugees.
ELISTAN: Elistan moves through the crowd with genuine warmth. You 
watch him kneel beside a crying child, conjure a simple light trick (not magic, 
just sleight of hand) to make her smile. He remembers names, asks follow-up 
questions about people's families. When an elderly man complains bitterly 
about the Seekers' failures, Elistan listens without defensiveness.
There's no calculation in him. He believes - truly believes - that faith should 
serve people, not the other way around. You notice he often looks... searching. 
Like he's seeking something he hasn't found yet in the Seeker doctrine.
Your read: Genuine, compassionate, possibly disillusioned with the Seeker 
church's limitations. If anyone in Solace would be "worthy" of the Disks as 
Khisanth described, it might be him. But he's still bound to Hederick's 
authority.
HEDERICK: Hederick is efficient, organized, commanding. He makes 
decisions quickly, delegates effectively, and people obey him. But you notice 
he rarely engages personally with refugees - he manages them like logistics 
problems. "Move these people here, allocate those supplies there."
When a desperate woman begs him to send soldiers to search for her missing 
husband, Hederick is firm: "We cannot spare resources for individual 
searches. I'm sorry." It's pragmatic. Logical. Cold.
Yet you also see him stay up late, poring over maps, trying to figure out how to 
save the most people. There's dedication there, but it's abstract - saving "the 
people" rather than individual persons.
Your read: Ambitious, practical, believes the ends justify the means. He'd 
see the Disks as a tool for consolidating power and organizing resistance. Not 
evil, but definitely dangerous. The type who'd hoard divine knowledge "for the 
greater good."
How does this inform your approach to them?
Well, the answer is obvious, but that's a dynamic i don't have the time to 
resolve unless they're facing some unexpected event today or tomorrow...
Dec 1
You're right - any resolution with Elistan or the Disks would require time and 
circumstances you don't have right now. That's a thread for later, if events 
bring you back to Solace.
For now, your mission is clear: extract yourself gracefully, reunite with Kessa, 
and get the Disks to wherever they need to go - which is 
definitely not Hederick's hands.
 
The next morning:
You find Hederick at the temple, already coordinating the day's evacuations. 
You approach respectfully.
"High Theocrat. I've been thinking... if Kessa survived and got separated, she 
might have headed west. To Haven, or maybe even back toward where we 
started. She knows those roads."
You pause, letting doubt show. "I'd like permission to travel west, see if I can 
find any trace of her. Ask among the refugee camps."
Hederick considers this. "You've already fulfilled your contract. I can't order 
you to search for her." But there's something in his eyes - does he want 
you gone? Or is he testing to see if you'll stay and be useful?
"That said," he continues, "if you do find her, and if you both wish to continue 
working as scouts..." He gestures at the maps. "There will be more need for 
intelligence. Verminaard won't stop at the northern villages."
It's an offer. Or perhaps a way to keep tabs on you.
What do you say?
Insight check?
Dec 1
I'll roll for you.
Insight check: 8 + 1 = 9
Hederick is hard to read. His expression is carefully neutral, his tone 
professional. You can't quite tell if he's:
*	Genuinely offering future work
*	Trying to keep you obligated to him
*	Hoping you'll leave and not complicate his plans
*	Testing your loyalty
He's a political operator, and right now he's giving nothing away.
What you can tell: he's not stopping you from leaving. Whether that's because 
he trusts your story, or because he wants you gone for other reasons, you're 
not certain.
Elistan, standing nearby, looks hopeful - he seems to genuinely want you to 
find Kessa alive.
What do you say to Hederick's offer?
I'm going to go around town, but really, I'm going to check to see if I'm being 
followed or if Hendrick's doing anything else sketchy.
Dec 1
Smart. You spend the rest of the day making a show of asking around town - 
checking with refugees, talking to merchants, describing Kessa to people at the 
inn. All very visible, very legitimate.
But you're also watching for tails.
Perception check: 13 + 1 = 14
You don't spot anyone obviously following you, but... there's something. Twice 
you catch glimpses of the same Seeker acolyte - a younger man in simple robes 
- in different parts of town where you're asking questions. Could be 
coincidence. Could be Hederick having you watched.
More interesting: Late in the afternoon, you see Hederick meeting privately 
with a well-dressed merchant in a secluded corner of the temple. Their 
conversation is hushed, intense. The merchant hands Hederick a sealed letter, 
which Hederick tucks away quickly. They part ways looking... conspiratorial.
Insight check: 11 + 1 = 12
Hard to say what that was about. Could be legitimate business - coordinating 
supplies, arranging transport for evacuations. Or it could be something else. 
Hederick clearly has his own networks and agendas beyond just "help the 
refugees."
As evening falls, you return to the Inn of the Last Home. No one approaches 
you. No confrontations. If Hederick suspects anything about the Disks, he's 
not showing it.
Tomorrow you leave for your "search" for Kessa. Two days after that, you'll 
meet her at Prayer's Eye crossroads.
Rest for the night, or anything else you want to do?
Spend a bit more time with enlisting and see if I can suss out more about 
Hendrick's plans
Dec 1
You find Elistan that evening helping distribute blankets to newly arrived 
refugees. You join him in the work, and after a while, you speak casually.
"Hederick's been working nonstop. The evacuations, the defenses... does he 
ever rest?"
Elistan smiles tiredly. "The High Theocrat believes rest is a luxury we can't 
afford right now." There's something in his tone - not quite criticism, but... 
weariness. "He's always been driven. Since I became his acolyte five years ago, 
I've never seen him take a day for himself."
You help fold a blanket. "He seems to have a lot of connections. Merchants, 
officials..."
"Oh yes," Elistan says. "Hederick built the Seeker church here from almost 
nothing. He's brilliant at organization, at forming alliances." He pauses, 
choosing words carefully. "Sometimes I think he sees faith as... strategy. A way 
to organize people toward safety and order."
There's doubt in his voice. "Is that wrong? I don't know anymore. We have no 
true divine guidance, no clerical magic. Maybe pragmatism is all we have left."
He looks at you directly. "You've traveled, seen things beyond Solace. Do you 
think the gods abandoned us? Or did we abandon them?"
It's a genuine question - Elistan is wrestling with something deeper than 
politics.
What do you say?
I think that's a question every man has to answer for himself. But what do you 
think?
Dec 1
Elistan is quiet for a long moment, his hands stilling on the blanket he's 
folding. When he speaks, his voice is low, almost confessional.
"I think... I think we forgot how to listen." He looks up at the stars visible 
through the inn's windows. "The Cataclysm happened three hundred years 
ago. The gods went silent - or so we're told. But what if they didn't? What if we 
just... stopped knowing how to hear them?"
He sets down the blanket. "Hederick teaches that we must seek the divine 
through our own efforts, through structure and ritual and discipline. That 
faith is what we build, not what's given to us. And maybe he's right. Maybe 
that's all that's left."
But there's profound doubt in his eyes. "Yet sometimes, late at night when I'm 
alone... I feel like there's something out there. Something true and ancient 
and..." He struggles for words. "...waiting. Not for grand temples or political 
power, but for something simpler. Purer."
He looks at you almost desperately. "Does that make me a fool? To believe in 
something I can't prove, can't touch, can't show anyone else?"
There's real pain here - a man of genuine faith trapped in an institution that's 
become more about power than belief.
The irony isn't lost on you. In your Bag of Holding back in Kessa's possession 
are literal divine artifacts that could answer every question this man has.
What do you say?
So what do you plan to do about it? Staying with Hendrick is unlikely to lead 
to answers
Dec 1
Elistan's eyes widen slightly - you've touched a nerve. He glances around to 
make sure no one's listening, then speaks even more quietly.
"I've been thinking about that. More and more lately." He runs a hand through 
his hair, exhausted. "Hederick has given me purpose, structure, a place in the 
world. But you're right - I won't find what I'm seeking here. Not while he's 
turning the Seeker church into... into a political machine."
He meets your gaze. "There are rumors. Stories from the refugees about... 
signs. Strange lights in the wilderness. Voices in dreams calling people 
eastward. Most dismiss them as trauma, desperation. But what if they're not?"
His voice carries a mix of hope and fear. "I've been thinking about leaving. 
After the evacuations are settled, after people are safe. Just... walking away. 
Following whatever this feeling is that won't leave me alone."
He laughs bitterly. "Hederick would call it abandonment. Irresponsibility. And 
maybe he'd be right. Maybe I'm just running away from duty because it's 
hard."
He looks at you intently. "You're leaving tomorrow to search for Kessa. Part of 
me envies you - you have a clear purpose, a person to find. I don't even know 
what I'm looking for."
A pause. "If you do find her... if you both survive whatever comes next... and if 
your path leads you to anything true..." He lets it hang there.
He's asking, without quite asking, to be remembered. To be found again if you 
discover what he seeks.
What do you say?
Well, the leaving is always easier than the finding. If you leavewithout some 
sense of what you're looking for, how would you know if you've found it?
Dec 1
Elistan absorbs your words like a man dying of thirst. "You're right. Of course 
you're right." He sits heavily on a nearby bench. "I'd just be... wandering. 
Another lost soul among thousands."
He's quiet for a moment, thinking. "So what would I look for? What would be 
the sign that I'd found something true?"
He works through it aloud, almost to himself: "Not power - we have enough 
people seeking that. Not politics or structure - that's what Hederick offers. It 
would have to be..." He searches for words. "...something that serves rather 
than rules. Something that heals without demanding worship in return. 
Something that makes broken people whole, not just organized."
His eyes focus on you with sudden intensity. "If the gods truly returned - if 
divine magic came back to this world - it wouldn't come through grand 
temples and high priests first, would it? It would come through the desperate, 
the humble, the ones with nothing left to lose but everything to gain."
He stands, some resolve settling into his features. "I'll stay through the 
evacuations. See people to safety. That's my duty. But after..." He looks at you. 
"After, I'll look for signs of genuine healing. Of mercy without agenda. And if I 
find it - or if it finds me - I'll follow it wherever it leads."
He extends his hand. "Thank you, Johannes. For asking the question I've been 
avoiding. Travel safely. And if you find Kessa..." He smiles. "Tell her there's at 
least one person in Solace who hopes for more than just survival."
Do you shake his hand? Say anything else before leaving 
tomorrow?
I wish him well then make my way to bed and sleep
Dec 1
You shake Elistan's hand firmly. There's genuine warmth in his grip - a 
connection between two people seeking truth in a complicated world.
"Travel safely," he says again. "May you find what you're looking for."
You part ways, and you make your way back through the tree-town to the Inn 
of the Last Home. The common room is quieter tonight - exhaustion has 
settled over the refugees like a blanket.
Otik nods to you as you head upstairs. "Safe travels tomorrow, friend. Come 
back if you can."
Your small room feels almost luxurious after sleeping rough in the wilderness. 
You bar the door, check your gear one final time, and settle onto the bed.
For the first time in days, you can take stock: You've survived Xak Tsaroth. 
Made a bargain with an ancient dragon. Secured the Disks of Mishakal. Your 
patron's voice remains blessedly silent - that divine aura still dampening the 
connection even though the Disks are miles away with Kessa.
Tomorrow you leave Solace. The day after, you reunite with Kessa at Prayer's 
Eye crossroads. And then... then you figure out where these Disks actually 
need to go.
Sleep comes easier than expected.
 
Morning arrives. You're well-rested, equipped, and ready to travel.
Current Status:
*	HP: 39/39
*	Spell Slots: 2/2
*	Gold: 50 gp (from Hederick)
*	Equipment: All your gear plus the items from Khisanth (Cloak of Manta 
Ray, Rope of Entanglement, Ring of Spell Storing, Dragon Scale)
What do you do?
Make my way out of town very openly, figuring to hide in pain sight. Once I'm 
out of view. I will check for observers then sneak into the woods and insure 
I'm not followed.
Dec 1
You make a show of your departure - stopping by the temple to tell Elistan 
you're heading west to search for Kessa, getting supplies from a merchant 
(spending a few gold pieces visibly), asking the innkeeper for trail advice.
By mid-morning, you're on the Haven Road heading west, pack on your back, 
looking every bit the concerned companion searching for his lost partner.
You walk for about an hour, putting good distance between yourself and 
Solace. The road is moderately traveled - a few refugees, a merchant cart.
When you round a bend with dense forest on both sides, you slip off the road 
into the treeline.
? Stealth check: 16 + 2 = 18
You move quietly into the woods, then double back parallel to the road, 
watching for anyone following.
? Perception check: 14 + 1 = 15
You wait, watching the road carefully. A few travelers pass - all moving 
naturally, not searching or hunting. No sign of that Seeker acolyte from 
yesterday. No indication anyone's tracking you.
After about twenty minutes of observation, you're confident: you're not being 
followed.
You're free and clear.
The crossroads at Prayer's Eye Peak are about a day and a half of travel west. 
You could take the road openly now, or continue moving through the forest to 
stay cautious.
What do you do?
Stay in the forest and play it very cautious
Dec 1
Smart. You stay well off the road, moving through the forest parallel to it. Your 
wilderness skills from the journey back serve you well - you navigate by the 
sun, avoid game trails that might have travelers, and keep the road just barely 
in sight through the trees as a reference point.
The day passes uneventfully. You see occasional travelers on the road below, 
but no one searching, no patrols, no draconians. The autumn forest is peaceful 
- just you, the rustling leaves, and the distant sound of the road.
As evening approaches, you find a good campsite in a dense thicket, well 
hidden from the road. Cold camp again - no fire. You eat trail rations and 
settle in for the night.
? The night passes without incident
 
Day Two:
You wake refreshed and continue west through the forest. By afternoon, you 
can see Prayer's Eye Peak in the distance - that distinctive split summit. The 
crossroads should be just ahead.
You approach cautiously, using the forest cover to scout the meeting point 
before revealing yourself.
? Perception check: 19 + 1 = 20 - Excellent!
From your hidden vantage point, you see the crossroads clearly. The Haven 
Road continues west, while the southern fork angles toward Prayer's Eye Peak.
And there, sitting on a fallen log near the fork, looking perfectly at ease, is 
Kessa. She's in her refugee disguise still - travel-worn clothes, that carefully 
cultivated look of exhaustion. But she's alert, eyes scanning the forest.
She's alone. No one else visible for at least a quarter mile in any direction.
She checks the sun's position - it's just past midday. Right on schedule.
What do you do?
I use our predetermined all clear signal, two Robbins calls immediately one 
right after the other, then wait for the counter sign
Dec 1
You cup your hands and produce two quick robin calls - chirp-chirp, chirp-
chirp - in rapid succession.
Kessa's head turns immediately toward your position. She doesn't move 
otherwise, just listens.
After a three-count, her response comes: a single, longer robin call followed by 
two short ones - chiiiirp, chirp-chirp.
The countersign. All clear.
She stands casually, stretches like someone who's been sitting too long, then 
ambles toward the forest edge near your position. To anyone watching, she'd 
just look like a refugee taking a moment to relieve herself in the woods.
Once she's in the tree cover and out of sight from the road, she grins broadly. 
"Johannes! You made it." She looks you over. "How'd it go with Hederick?"
She pats the Bag of Holding at her side. "I've had interesting company for 
three days. These things are chatty - well, not literally, but I swear I can feel 
them... humming? It's like they're content or something."
She glances back at the road. "No one followed me. Traveled with a family 
fleeing from Gateway - sweet people, heartbreaking story. They split off 
toward Haven this morning."
She looks at you expectantly. "So? What's our next move? Where do we take 
divine artifacts that an ancient dragon entrusted to a cursed warlock and his 
con-artist partner?"
What do you say?
Great question. And one I am not sure how to answer...
Rather than continuing this adventure, since I am not committed to giving the 
Disks to Ellistan (even though I know he is the figure I am supposed to give 
them to...), let's call this adventure over and move onto another. Committing 
the Disks can become a running thread, as well as agents seeking to get the 
Disks as an extra challenge.
Dec 2
Perfect! That's a great call. The Disks become an ongoing MacGuffin - a 
responsibility Johannes carries, a source of both protection (dampening his 
patron) and danger (everyone wants them). It adds wonderful tension and 
moral complexity to future adventures.
Let me summarize where we're leaving things:
Johannes & Kessa - Post Dragons of Despair
*	Successfully scouted Xak Tsaroth ?
*	Made a pact with Khisanth the Black Dragon ?
*	Possess the Disks of Mishakal (hidden in Bag of Holding)
*	New gear: Cloak of Manta Ray, Rope of Entanglement, Ring of Spell 
Storing, Khisanth's Dragon Scale
*	Gold: ~50gp each
*	Level: Still 5 (we can level you to 6 for next adventure)
*	Patron connection: Muted while carrying the Disks
*	New threads: Elistan's crisis of faith, Hederick's ambitions, 
Verminaard's army
This creates ongoing tension:
*	Agents seeking the Disks
*	The moral weight of carrying them without delivering them
*	Johannes's patron eventually noticing the silence
*	The temptation to use them for personal protection vs. their intended 
purpose
Ready to pick your next adventure module? We have several classic 
ones in your project knowledge, or I can adapt something else. What themes 
interest you - more political intrigue, dungeon delving, investigation, survival 
horror?
Let's hold off on levelling for one more adventure. But I'll have you pick one 
randomly from the options included in the Knowledge Base, but keep your 
decision process and choice secret. I don't want any kind of spoilers. And let's 
get a summary so I can create a new thread for the new adventure.
Dec 2
Perfect! I'll randomly select an adventure from your knowledge base and keep 
it completely secret. No spoilers, no hints about what's coming.
Let me create a summary document for you:
Creating comprehensive summary for next adventure thread
Perfect! Your summary is ready above. Simply copy it and start your new chat 
with:
"I'd like to continue my one-on-one D&D campaign. Here's where we left off: 
[paste summary]. Let's begin the next adventure!"
I've secretly selected your next adventure from the knowledge base - no 
spoilers, no hints. It'll be a complete surprise!
This has been an absolute blast. The negotiation with Khisanth was one of my 
favorite RPG moments in a long time - you played Johannes with such 
thoughtful complexity. See you in the next adventure! ??
Can you find descriptions for these Warlock invocations: Cloak of Flies
Eldritch Smite
Far Scribe
Gift of the Depths
Maddening Hex
Mire the Mind
One with Shadows
Sign of Ill Omen
Thirsting Blade
Tomb of Levistus
Undying Servitude
Show more
Dec 3
I don't have access to the specific mechanics and descriptions of those 
Warlock invocations in my knowledge base or the documents you've provided. 
Those invocations are from various D&D 5e sourcebooks (Player's Handbook, 
Xanathar's Guide to Everything, Tasha's Cauldron of Everything).
However, I can help you in a couple of ways:
1.	If you have the rulebooks, I can help you evaluate which invocations 
would be most useful for Johannes's playstyle (tactical, survival-focused, 
avoiding unnecessary combat)
2.	If you want to use web search, I can look up the official descriptions 
for you
3.	For our game, you can just tell me which invocations you're interested 
in and what they do, and we'll incorporate them
Since Johannes might be leveling up soon (you mentioned holding off for one 
more adventure), are you planning ahead for level 6+ invocation choices?
Would you like me to search the web for these invocation descriptions?
Web search please? Yes, I am thinking about what to do with Johannes after 
the next mission
Dec 3
1 step
D&D 5e Gift of the Depths Maddening Hex Mire the Mind warlock invocations
10 results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D&D 5e One with Shadows Sign of Ill Omen Thirsting Blade Tomb of Levistus 
Undying Servitude warlock
10 results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Perfect! Here's a summary of all the invocations you asked about:
Warlock Invocation Descriptions (5e 2014)
Cloak of Flies (5th level, Xanathar's)
*	Bonus action to surround yourself with magical aura that looks like 
buzzing flies
*	Extends 5 feet from you in every direction
*	Any other creature that starts its turn in the aura takes poison damage 
equal to your CHA modifier (minimum 0)
*	Lasts until you dismiss it
*	Drawback: Disadvantage on Charisma checks while active
Eldritch Smite (5th level, Pact of the Blade, Xanathar's)
*	Once per turn when you hit with pact weapon, expend a warlock spell 
slot
*	Deal extra 1d8 force damage per spell level
*	Knock target prone if it's Huge or smaller
Far Scribe (5th level, Pact of the Tome, Tasha's)
*	New page appears in Book of Shadows
*	Creatures can write their name on it (up to proficiency bonus names)
*	Cast sending targeting creatures on the page without spell slot or 
components
*	Write message on page; target hears it and their reply appears on page
Gift of the Depths (5th level, Xanathar's)
*	Breathe underwater
*	Gain swimming speed equal to walking speed
*	Cast water breathing once per long rest without spell slot
Maddening Hex (5th level, hex spell or warlock curse feature, Xanathar's)
*	Bonus action: psychic disturbance around cursed target
*	Deal psychic damage equal to CHA modifier to cursed target and chosen 
creatures within 5 feet
*	Must see target and be within 30 feet
Mire the Mind (5th level)
*	Cast slow once per long rest using a warlock spell slot
One with Shadows (5th level)
*	When in dim light or darkness, use action to become invisible
*	Invisibility ends if you move or take an action/reaction
Sign of Ill Omen (5th level)
*	Cast bestow curse once per long rest using a warlock spell slot
Thirsting Blade (5th level, Pact of the Blade)
*	Attack twice with pact weapon when you take Attack action
Tomb of Levistus (5th level, Xanathar's)
*	Reaction when you take damage: entomb yourself in ice
*	Gain 10 temporary HP per warlock level
*	Speed reduced to 0, incapacitated until end of your next turn
*	Become vulnerable to fire damage
*	Ice melts at end of your next turn
Undying Servitude (5th level, Tasha's)
*	Cast animate dead once per long rest without spell slot
*	Creates one skeleton or zombie
 
For Johannes's tactical playstyle, the most useful would probably be:
*	Maddening Hex - extra damage when using Hex
*	One with Shadows - fits his stealth/survival approach
*	Tomb of Levistus - emergency panic button (though risky)
The Pact of the Blade options (Eldritch Smite, Thirsting Blade) wouldn't apply 
since Johannes isn't a melee warlock.
Which ones are you considering for his next level-up?
Ooh, hex or stealth. Tasty either way. I'll need to think, along with figuring out 
how to get Kressa darkvision
Dec 3
Great choices! Both really fit Johannes's tactical approach.
For Kessa's darkvision, you have a few options:
Magic Items:
*	Goggles of Night (Uncommon) - gives darkvision 60 ft, perfect 
solution
*	Eyes of the Eagle (Uncommon) - advantage on Perception checks 
using sight, plus darkvision in some versions
*	Potion of Darkvision (uncommon) - temporary but useful for 
dungeon delving
Spells:
*	Darkvision spell (2nd level) - lasts 8 hours, could be cast from your 
Ring of Spell Storing if you find a friendly wizard/cleric
Mundane Solutions:
*	Light sources (torch, lantern) - practical but gives away position
*	You lead with Devil's Sight while she follows with hand on your shoulder 
(like you've been doing)
Future possibilities:
*	If she multiclasses (even 1 level) into a class with darkvision racial 
options
*	Custom magic item reward from an adventure
The Goggles of Night would be the cleanest solution - uncommon rarity, 
reasonable to find or purchase in a decent-sized town.
Want me to work that into the next adventure as potential loot or a purchase 
opportunity?
Looking forward to seeing which invocation you choose! Both would serve 
Johannes really well. ??
Yes. Let's start!
Dec 3
Perfect! Starting your new adventure now!
Just to confirm - you want me to begin the mystery adventure I've secretly 
selected, and we'll look for opportunities to get Kessa those Goggles of Night 
along the way?
Quick reminder of your current status:
*	Johannes & Kessa: Level 5
*	Location: Prayer's Eye Peak crossroads
*	The Disks of Mishakal: Hidden in Bag of Holding (with Kessa)
*	Gold: ~50 gp each
*	Full HP, all resources
Ready when you are! ??
 
The crossroads sits quiet in the autumn afternoon. Kessa adjusts the Bag of 
Holding at her side - you can feel that familiar warm presence even from here, 
the Disks radiating their protective aura.
"So," she says, studying the fork in the road. "West to Haven, south back 
toward Prayer's Eye Peak and eventually those ruins, or..." She glances at you 
with a slight grin. "We pick a direction and see what trouble finds us?"
The Haven Road stretches west, well-traveled. The southern fork leads back 
toward more isolated territory. And to the north, barely visible through the 
trees, you can see smoke rising from what might be a small settlement or 
waystation.
Before you can decide, you hear something: hoofbeats, coming fast from the 
west. A single rider, pushing their horse hard.
? Perception check: Roll d20 + 1 (Wisdom)
What's your roll?
Let's switch to you rolling everything; it breaks the game too much.
Dec 3
Absolutely! That makes total sense - keeps the immersion going. I'll handle all 
the rolls from now on.
 
The crossroads sits quiet in the autumn afternoon. Kessa adjusts the Bag of 
Holding at her side - you can feel that familiar warm presence even from here, 
the Disks radiating their protective aura.
"So," she says, studying the fork in the road. "West to Haven, south back 
toward Prayer's Eye Peak and eventually those ruins, or..." She glances at you 
with a slight grin. "We pick a direction and see what trouble finds us?"
The Haven Road stretches west, well-traveled. The southern fork leads back 
toward more isolated territory. And to the north, barely visible through the 
trees, you can see smoke rising from what might be a small settlement or 
waystation.
Before you can decide, you hear something: hoofbeats, coming fast from the 
west. A single rider, pushing their horse hard.
Perception check: 14 + 1 = 15
You spot the rider clearly - a young woman in travel-stained clothes, her horse 
lathered and exhausted. She's looking back over her shoulder as she rides, 
clearly fleeing from something.
As she approaches the crossroads, she finally notices you and Kessa. She pulls 
up hard, her horse nearly stumbling.
"Please!" she gasps. "You have to help - the town - Thornhaven - they're all..." 
She struggles to catch her breath, fear evident in her eyes. "Something's 
wrong. Everyone's acting strange. My brother, my friends... they won't let 
anyone leave!"
What do you do?
I look at Kressa. Back into the fray?
Dec 4
Kessa meets your eyes, and you see that familiar mix of resignation and 
excitement. "We just can't help ourselves, can we?" She sighs, but she's already 
checking her weapons. "Divine artifacts in the bag, and we're still stopping to 
help every person in distress."
She turns to the rider. "How far is Thornhaven? And what do you mean 'acting 
strange'?"
The woman dismounts shakily, her horse trembling with exhaustion. "Half a 
day's ride north - that smoke you can see. It started three days ago. People 
just... stopped being themselves. They smile too much, their eyes are wrong. 
They started gathering in the town square, just standing there. Anyone who 
questions it gets..." She swallows hard. "They get dragged to the square too. I 
barely got away when my own brother tried to stop me."
She looks between you desperately. "I was riding to Haven to get help, but if 
you're willing... please. My family's still there."
Kessa glances at you, hand resting on her rapier. "Mass mind control or 
possession? Either way, sounds delightful." Her tone is dry, but you can see 
she's already thinking tactically. "Half a day's ride means we'd arrive around 
nightfall. Could be an advantage, could be walking into an ambush."
The woman adds quickly, "There's a back way in - through the old mill on the 
east side. If you're going to help, you should avoid the main road. They've 
been... watching it."
What do you do?
I shrug. I already know we're going, but...hmm. any other questions, Kressa? 
Any guesses about what is happening to the folks, what is causing it?
Dec 4
Kessa steps closer to the woman, her expression sharpening into investigative 
mode. "When did this start exactly? Was there anything unusual before people 
started acting strange? Strangers arriving in town, strange weather, someone 
digging something up?"
The woman thinks, still trying to calm her breathing. "Three days ago... there 
was a merchant caravan that came through. They had wagons covered with 
tarps, said they were heading to the mines south of town. But they never left - 
their wagons are still parked near the square." She pauses. "And there was 
something else. The night before it started, people reported hearing singing. 
Beautiful singing, but no one could find where it was coming from."
Kessa's eyes narrow. She looks at you. "Singing that charms people? Mass 
compulsion? Could be a hag, a enchantment specialist, maybe even..." She 
trails off, thinking.
The woman continues, "My brother - before he changed - he kept talking 
about 'the gift' and 'sharing the joy.' Like he'd found some kind of religion 
overnight." She shudders. "But his eyes... they were glassy. Empty. Like he 
wasn't really in there anymore."
Kessa mutters to you quietly, "Could be magical, could be poison in the water, 
could be something worse. We won't know until we get closer." She turns back 
to the woman. "This merchant caravan - did you see any of the merchants 
themselves? What did they look like?"
The woman shakes her head. "They kept to themselves mostly. Wore heavy 
robes despite the warm weather. I remember thinking it was odd, but..." She 
looks guilty. "We get so many travelers through Thornhaven, I didn't think 
much of it."
Kessa looks at you. "Robed figures with covered wagons, mysterious singing, 
mass mind control. Either we're walking into a cult recruitment drive or 
something's using the town for... something." She checks the sun's position. 
"Your call, Johannes. Do we ride in now and arrive at dusk, or do we approach 
more carefully on foot?"
What do you do?
Investigation or arcana check. If the cause is something other than mundane, 
any counters to hypnosis or charms anyone is aware of?
Dec 4
Arcana check: 8 + 1 = 9
You rack your brain for knowledge about charm effects and mind control. You 
know the basics - charm person, suggestion, dominate person - but those are 
individual spells. Something affecting an entire town? That's different.
You remember that Protection from Evil and Good can prevent charm effects, 
and various restoration spells can break them. But you don't have access to 
those - warlock magic isn't built for that kind of divine protection.
The woman suddenly speaks up, desperation in her voice. "Wait - there was 
one thing. Old Marta, the herbalist, she always keeps herbs burning in her 
shop. Sage and something else, I don't remember. She was one of the last to... 
change. Took them almost a full day longer to get to her than everyone else."
Kessa's eyes light up. "Smoke? Incense? If it's something in the air..." She 
looks at you. "We could soak cloth in water, cover our faces. Won't stop magic, 
but if there's an airborne component..."
She turns to the woman. "This herbalist - is her shop still standing? And those 
merchant wagons near the square - any idea what's in them?"
The woman shakes her head. "I don't know about the wagons. I ran before... 
and yes, Marta's shop should still be there. East side of town, near the mill."
Kessa crosses her arms, thinking. "So we've got: mysterious merchants, 
covered wagons, magical singing, and possibly an airborne element. Plus 
everyone gathering in the town square like puppets." She looks at you 
seriously. "Johannes, we should assume whatever this is, it's powerful enough 
to control dozens, maybe hundreds of people. That's not a cantrip. That's 
serious magic."
What do you do?
It can't hurt to just scout things out and determinejust what's happening and 
whether it's too big for us. Right?
Side questions: I should have a scroll of Protection from Good and Evil from 
our escapade in Firestone Peaks, as well as lots of other goodies. Are those 
included on my current inventory. If not, can you look back through the 
threads in this Project to update our current inventory and loot?
Also, what would it cost to rent horsesfor Kress and i? Is it an animal handling 
check to ride them?
Dec 4
Good point - let me check your inventory from the previous adventures.
Actually, looking back at the summaries, after Firestorm Peak you sold most of 
the magical items (including the Crystal Cleaver) to fund your gear upgrades. 
The summary shows:
Current Inventory:
*	Scroll of Misty Step
*	Potions: 2 Greater Healing, 3 Healing (Johannes) / 3 Greater Healing, 3 
Healing (Kessa)
*	Standard adventuring gear in Bag of Holding
I don't see a Protection from Good and Evil scroll listed. You might have sold 
it or used it - want me to say you kept one and just didn't list it? That would be 
totally reasonable!
Regarding horses:
*	Renting horses: Typically 2-5 sp per day, with a deposit (maybe 50 gp 
per horse that you get back)
*	The woman's horse is exhausted and needs rest
*	Riding: Generally no check needed for normal riding. Animal Handling 
checks only for difficult maneuvers or calming spooked horses
 
Kessa nods at your suggestion. "Scout first, absolutely. We'd be idiots to walk 
into a mind-controlled town without knowing what we're facing." She looks at 
the woman. "Can you draw us a map? Show us where the mill entrance is, 
where the herbalist's shop is, and where these merchants are camped?"
The woman nods eagerly and kneels to scratch a rough map in the dirt with a 
stick.
"We'll need horses," Kessa says practically. "Half a day's ride is a long walk, 
and if we need to leave quickly..." She looks at you. "Your fifty gold and my 
fifty should cover rentals and deposits. There's probably a waystation or small 
settlement where we saw that smoke - we could get horses there."
Do you want to:
1.	Head to the nearby settlement to rent horses and gather supplies
2.	Have the woman lead you there on foot (slower but free)
3.	Something else?
She's exhausted, we can go on our own. Let's head out.
Dec 4
"Rest your horse," you tell the woman. "We'll handle this."
She looks relieved and grateful. "Thank you. Thank you both. Please... save 
them if you can."
You and Kessa study the rough map she's drawn - the mill on the east side, the 
herbalist shop, the town square where the merchants are camped, the main 
road to avoid.
"Stay here or head to Haven," Kessa tells her. "Don't go back to Thornhaven 
until you hear from us."
 
The walk north takes about twenty minutes. The smoke you spotted turns out 
to be from a small waystation - really just a stable, an inn, and a trader's post 
serving travelers on the northern route.
The stable hand is a grizzled older man who eyes you with the practiced 
assessment of someone who's seen all kinds.
"Two horses for the day, you say?" He scratches his beard. "That'll be 5 silver 
for the rental, 50 gold deposit each - you bring 'em back unharmed, you get 
your gold back. Damage or loss, well..." He shrugs.
Kessa grimaces at the deposit but nods. "We'll take them. And do you have any 
cloth we could buy? And waterskins?"
The man raises an eyebrow but doesn't ask questions. "Aye, I can set you up. 
Another silver for supplies."
Total cost: 101 gold, 1 silver (you'll get 100 gold back when you 
return the horses)
The horses are sturdy riding horses - nothing fancy, but reliable. Within 
fifteen minutes, you're mounted and heading north toward Thornhaven.
The afternoon sun is descending as you ride. Kessa's quiet, thoughtful. "You 
know we're probably riding into something way over our heads, right?"
The road ahead curves through light forest. In the distance, you can just make 
out the first hints of buildings.
What do you do as you approach Thornhaven?
Which side of town are we coming into?
Dec 4
You're approaching from the south - the main road that the woman warned 
you about. According to her map, you'll want to circle around to the east side 
where the old mill is located for the safer entrance.
Kessa pulls her horse to a stop as the forest begins to thin ahead. Through the 
trees, you can see Thornhaven more clearly now - a modest town of maybe 
200-300 people. Wooden buildings, a central square visible from here, and 
yes, you can see several covered wagons parked near that square.
The sun is low on the horizon - maybe an hour of daylight left.
"We need to get around to the east side," Kessa says quietly, studying the 
terrain. "We can either circle wide through the forest - slower but safer - or cut 
closer to town and risk being spotted."
She points. "See there? That's probably the mill - that larger building on the 
eastern edge. And if we come in from that direction, we'll be approaching from 
behind it, not from the main road they're watching."
Your Devil's Sight will be a huge advantage once darkness falls, but right now 
you're still visible in the fading daylight.
Do you:
1.	Circle wide through the forest (safer, takes longer)
2.	Move closer to town but stay in cover (faster, slight risk)
3.	Wait for full darkness before approaching (safest, but whatever's 
happening continues)
What do you do?
Circle to the east, find s place to hobble the horses whee they can feed for a 
few days if necessary, then find s place we can observe unseen until full dark.
Dec 4
Smart thinking. You and Kessa guide the horses in a wide arc through the 
forest, staying well back from the town's edge.
Survival check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19 - Excellent!
You find an ideal spot about a quarter mile east of the mill - a small dell with a 
stream and good grazing. Natural rock formations provide shelter, and the dell 
is hidden enough that the horses won't be easily spotted. You hobble them 
securely but comfortably.
"If we don't come back in a few days, they'll eventually wander back to the 
waystation," Kessa notes practically, giving her horse a final pat.
Moving on foot now, you creep closer to Thornhaven. The mill is a large, 
weathered structure built alongside a stream - the same one where you left the 
horses. The waterwheel is still, suggesting it's not currently operating.
Stealth check (Johannes): 11 + 2 = 13 Stealth check (Kessa): 19 + 5 = 
24
You find cover in a cluster of trees about 100 feet from the mill's eastern side. 
From here, you have a good vantage point of both the mill and part of the town 
beyond it.
As dusk settles, you begin to see what the woman meant.
Perception check (Johannes): 12 + 1 = 13
People are moving through the streets of Thornhaven, but their movements 
are... wrong. Too synchronized. Too purposeful. Groups of them walking in the 
same direction - toward the town square. Even from here, you can see their 
faces: blank expressions, slight smiles, empty eyes catching the dying light.
And then you hear it.
Singing. Faint, beautiful, wordless singing drifting from the direction of the 
town square. It's haunting, almost hypnotic even at this distance. The kind of 
melody that makes you want to move closer, to find its source...
Kessa grips your arm. "You hear it too?" Her voice is tight. "Don't listen too 
closely."
What do you do?
This is going to be a problem if it is a constant distraction, but I don't like the 
idea of wax in the ears. Let's pull back and talk this through
Dec 4
You gesture to Kessa and both of you retreat further into the forest, putting 
more distance between yourselves and that insidious singing. Once you're a 
good two hundred feet back, the melody fades to barely audible.
Kessa lets out a breath she'd been holding. "Okay. That was... uncomfortable. 
Even knowing it's dangerous, I wanted to get closer." She shakes her head, 
clearing it. "If that's what's controlling them, we're going to have a problem."
She sits on a fallen log, thinking. "The herbalist - Marta - she lasted longer 
with her burning herbs. Maybe smoke does help. But that doesn't explain how 
we investigate if we can't get close without getting charmed."
She looks at you seriously. "Options: One, we could try the wet cloth over our 
faces plus staying as far back as possible. Two, we scout the perimeter, see if 
we can find those merchants and figure out what they're doing without getting 
too close to whatever's singing. Three..." She hesitates. "We could try to find 
that herbalist's shop, see if her herbs actually work as protection."
She pauses. "Or four - and I hate suggesting this - one of us gets close enough 
to see what's really happening while the other stays back as backup. If the 
close person gets compromised, the backup pulls them out."
The sun has almost fully set now. Your Devil's Sight will give you a massive 
advantage in the darkness.
"What's your gut saying, Johannes? Because mine is screaming that this is way 
bigger than two people should be handling."
What do you do?
We're not trying to handle anything, yet. So we aren't in a position where we 
can't walk away. Let's begin with option 2, then 3, then figure out she's things 
stand.
Dec 4
Kessa nods approvingly. "Information first. Smart. Let's see what we're 
actually dealing with before we commit to anything."
Full darkness has fallen now. Your Devil's Sight pierces the gloom as if it were 
dim twilight, while Kessa stays close, her hand on your shoulder for guidance.
You circle around the eastern perimeter of Thornhaven, staying well back 
from the buildings. The singing continues from the town square - constant, 
hypnotic, like a siren's call.
Stealth check (Johannes): 15 + 2 = 17 Stealth check (Kessa): 22 + 5 
= 27
You move like shadows. Through your Devil's Sight, you can see the town 
more clearly now:
The covered wagons are indeed parked near the central square - four of them, 
large merchant wagons. People - dozens of them - stand in concentric circles 
around something in the square itself. They're swaying gently, all facing 
inward, that same empty smile on every face.
You work your way around the perimeter until you have a better angle on the 
square.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
And there, in the center of the circle of enthralled townspeople, you see the 
source of the singing:
A figure standing on a raised platform. Humanoid, but... wrong. Even from 
this distance (maybe 200 feet), you can tell it's not quite human. Its skin has 
an otherworldly pallor, almost luminescent in the darkness. Long hair that 
seems to move independently of any breeze. And when it moves, there's 
something fluid and unsettling about it.
It's singing, arms outstretched, and with each note the crowd sways in perfect 
unison.
Kessa whispers urgently in your ear. "What do you see?"
What do you tell her, and what do you do next?
Everything. And let's try a nature or arcana check for the humanoid?
Dec 4
You describe everything in hushed detail - the four wagons, the circles of 
enthralled people, the raised platform, and the singer with its wrong 
proportions and luminescent skin.
Arcana check (Johannes): 15 + 1 = 16
Something clicks in your memory. The description - the supernatural beauty, 
the hypnotic singing, the mass charm effect - this matches legends you've 
heard about creatures from the Feywild or similar planes. Creatures that lure 
victims with enchanting songs.
Could be a harpy, but they're typically more monstrous and their songs affect 
smaller areas. Could be a nymph or similar fey creature, but they don't 
usually do mass mind control like this. Or...
Wait. The way it's standing on a platform, conducting them like a 
performance. The robed merchants. The covered wagons. This 
feels organized. Deliberate. Not a creature hunting prey, but something... 
orchestrated.
Nature check (Johannes): 9 + 1 = 10
You can't pin down the exact creature type from this distance and in darkness, 
even with your Devil's Sight.
Kessa processes your description. "So we've got a fey or fey-adjacent creature 
conducting a town-wide charm ritual, with mysterious merchants who 
brought it here. Question is: why? What's the endgame?"
She peers toward the square, though she can't see clearly in the darkness. "The 
herbalist's shop should be... somewhere on this eastern side, right? Between 
us and the square. Want to try to find it? If her herbs actually helped resist the 
song, that might tell us something."
As you watch, one of the robed figures emerges from behind a wagon and 
approaches the singer. They exchange what looks like a brief conversation, 
then the robed figure gestures toward one of the other wagons. Several 
townspeople break from the circles and begin moving toward it, still in that 
synchronized way.
"They're organizing something," Kessa whispers. "Loading? Unloading?"
What do you do?
Wait and watch
Dec 4
You settle in, watching carefully. Kessa remains perfectly still beside you, her 
rogue's patience matching your own.
The townspeople approach the wagon the robed figure indicated. They work in 
eerie synchronization - no words exchanged, just smooth, coordinated 
movements. They begin unloading wooden crates, passing them along in a 
human chain toward one of the town's larger buildings.
Perception check (Johannes): 13 + 1 = 14
The crates are heavy - you can tell by how the townspeople handle them, even 
under the charm's influence. And they're being careful with them, moving 
deliberately despite their blank expressions.
After about ten minutes, you count roughly twenty crates moved into the 
building. Then the townspeople return to their circles around the singer, 
resuming their swaying.
Kessa whispers, "They're storing something. Or staging it. Those robed figures 
are directing them like..." She pauses. "Like workers. Like slaves."
Another robed figure emerges - this one from a different wagon. It walks to the 
edge of the crowd and seems to be... inspecting them? Moving along the outer 
circle, occasionally stopping to look closely at individual townspeople.
Then it selects one - a young man - and leads him away from the crowd toward 
the wagons. The man follows obediently, that same empty smile never 
wavering.
The robed figure opens the back of one of the wagons. Even from here, you see 
the young man climb inside willingly. The wagon door closes behind him.
Kessa's grip on your shoulder tightens. "Johannes... are they taking people?"
The singer continues its haunting melody. The crowd continues to sway. And 
you've now watched one person be loaded into a wagon like cargo.
What do you do?
Is there indication of what may be happening inside that wagon without 
getting closer? Id not, let's head over to the herbalist cottage
Dec 4
Perception check (Johannes): 8 + 1 = 9
From this distance and angle, you can't see or hear anything from inside the 
wagon. It's just sitting there, closed up tight. The young man hasn't emerged, 
and there's no visible activity around it now.
You gesture to Kessa - time to move. You both withdraw carefully from your 
observation point, circling back through the darkness.
According to the woman's rough map, the herbalist's shop should be on the 
eastern side of town, near the mill. You navigate through the shadows, keeping 
well away from the town square and its hypnotic singing.
Stealth check (Johannes): 14 + 2 = 16 Stealth check (Kessa): 20 + 5 
= 25
You find it after about ten minutes of careful searching - a small cottage with 
bundles of dried herbs hanging from the eaves. A painted wooden sign reads 
"Marta's Remedies" in faded letters. The windows are dark, but the door 
stands slightly ajar.
No sounds from within. No movement visible.
Kessa whispers, "The woman said Marta was one of the last to change. She 
might be in the square with the others now, or..." She doesn't finish the 
thought.
The singing is still audible from here, though fainter. Maybe 150 feet to the 
town square.
What do you do?
Look for an alternate entrance like in the back then enter
Dec 4
You circle around the cottage quietly, looking for another way in.
Perception check (Johannes): 17 + 1 = 18
There - a small back door leading into what's probably a work area or storage 
room. It's closed but not locked. Through a nearby window, your Devil's Sight 
reveals the interior: shelves lined with jars and bottles, bundles of hanging 
herbs, a work table with a mortar and pestle.
And something else - a brazier on the work table, still containing ash. The 
remnants of whatever Marta had been burning.
You test the back door. It opens silently on well-oiled hinges.
Inside, the cottage is eerily quiet. The main room contains all the trappings of 
an herbalist's shop - labeled jars, dried flowers, preparation tools. Your Devil's 
Sight shows you everything clearly, though Kessa can only make out vague 
shapes in the darkness.
"Anything?" she whispers.
The brazier on the work table has cold ash in it. Near it, several small pouches 
of dried herbs sit in a row. You can make out handwritten labels: "Sage," 
"Wormwood," "Vervain," "Salt."
There's also a leather-bound journal lying open on the table, as if someone had 
been writing in it recently.
What do you do?
Try to read the journal
Dec 4
You move to the work table and examine the journal. The handwriting is 
shaky, hurried - the writing of someone frightened.
The last entry is dated three days ago:
"Day 3 - They came for Emil and Sara this morning. Stood outside my door 
for an hour, just... waiting. Smiling. But the smoke kept them from entering. 
Why does the smoke work? The sage and wormwood together - something 
about it breaks their focus, makes them confused.
I can hear it even now. That beautiful, terrible singing. It wants me to come. 
To join them. To be 'joyful.' My hands shake as I write this. How long can I 
last?
The robed ones brought it here. I saw them unload the creature from their 
wagon that first night. It's not human. It's not even natural. Something from 
the deep woods, or somewhere worse. They're feeding it. Using it. But for 
what purpose?
They're taking people. Loading them into the wagons. I saw Marcus go 
willingly, that horrible smile on his face. Where are they taking them?
The herbs are running low. Maybe another day, if I'm careful. If they don't-
"
The entry ends abruptly, mid-sentence.
You flip back through earlier pages. Recipes for remedies, notes on herb 
cultivation, normal herbalist records. Nothing unusual until three days ago 
when the entries become increasingly frantic.
Kessa, who can't read in the darkness, whispers urgently, "What does it say?"
What do you tell her, and what do you do?
Everything then consult about next steps
Dec 4
You relay everything from the journal - the smoke keeping them at bay, the 
creature being brought here deliberately by the robed figures, people being 
loaded into wagons and taken somewhere, Marta's desperate last entry.
Kessa is quiet for a moment, processing. "So this isn't random. The merchants 
brought that thing here on purpose. They're using it to charm the whole town, 
then... what? Taking them somewhere? Selling them?"
She moves closer to the work table, running her fingers over the herb pouches. 
"Sage and wormwood together break their focus. That's something, at least. 
We could make our own protection."
She's quiet another moment, then: "Johannes, we need to make a decision. We 
know enough now to understand what's happening - mass enchantment, 
probable slave trading or worse, organized by those robed figures. The 
question is: what do we do about it?"
She ticks off options on her fingers in the darkness:
"One: We ride back to Haven, report this to authorities. Gets help, but takes 
time - probably a full day there and back. More people get loaded into those 
wagons.
Two: We try to disrupt this tonight. Kill or disable the singer, break the charm. 
Risky as hell with just the two of us.
Three: We try to free people from the wagons, get them out quietly. Might save 
a few but doesn't solve the root problem.
Four: We scout more, try to figure out where those wagons are going or what 
the robed figures' ultimate goal is."
She looks at you seriously. "Your call. But we should probably take some of 
these herbs either way."
What do you do?
Make smelling bags of the herbs thathand around our necks, then return to 
our vantage point to see if we can collect more information.
Dec 4
"Good thinking," Kessa murmurs.
You both gather the herb pouches - sage, wormwood, and some of the vervain 
for good measure. Working by touch (Kessa) and Devil's Sight (you), you 
fashion two small sachets using cloth from the shelves, filling them with the 
protective herbs and tying them with twine to hang around your necks.
The scent is strong - earthy, slightly bitter. Not unpleasant, but distinctive.
"If anyone gets close, they'll smell this on us," Kessa notes practically. "But 
better that than ending up in a wagon."
You slip out the back door, leaving Marta's cottage as you found it, and make 
your way back toward your previous observation point.
Stealth check (Johannes): 19 + 2 = 21 Stealth check (Kessa): 17 + 5 = 
22
You move like ghosts through the darkness, settling back into cover with a 
view of the town square.
Perception check (Johannes): 11 + 1 = 12
The scene has shifted somewhat. The circles of townspeople are smaller now - 
maybe thirty or forty people instead of the sixty-plus you saw earlier. The 
singer continues its haunting melody, but several of the robed figures are now 
moving among the wagons, clearly preparing for something.
One wagon - the one you saw the young man enter - has been hitched to 
horses. Two robed figures climb onto the driver's bench.
They're preparing to leave.
As you watch, the wagon begins rolling slowly out of the square, heading south 
toward the main road. Toward the direction you came from.
Kessa grips your arm. "They're moving people out. Right now."
What do you do?
Let's find a route to follow them that doesn't force us out into the open
Dec 4
You gesture urgently to Kessa and both of you move, paralleling the wagon's 
route while staying in the cover of buildings and shadows.
Stealth check (Johannes): 16 + 2 = 18 Stealth check (Kessa): 23 + 5 
= 28
You move like shadows, using your Devil's Sight to guide Kessa through the 
darkness. The wagon rumbles slowly down the main street, its drivers in no 
particular hurry.
You keep pace, darting between buildings, using fences and market stalls for 
cover. The herb sachets around your necks sway as you move, their protective 
scent sharp in your nostrils.
The wagon reaches the southern edge of town and continues onto the main 
road - the same road you avoided earlier. It's heading south.
Perception check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
You can see the covered wagon clearly. Two robed drivers on the bench. No 
sounds from inside the covered portion, but you know there are people in 
there - the young man you saw, possibly others.
Kessa whispers, "We can follow on foot for a while, but once they get further 
from town, there won't be cover. And our horses are east, not south."
She's right. The road ahead stretches through increasingly open terrain. 
Following on foot will become impossible within a mile or two.
"We could try to intercept them now, while we're close to town," she suggests 
quietly. "Or we let them go and see if we can track where they're heading 
tomorrow. But if we let them go..." She doesn't finish, but you understand. 
Those people in the wagon may never be seen again.
What do you do?
I can m move faster in the dark than Kressa, she keeps following them while I 
get both horses. She'll leave signs if needed
Dec 4
"Good plan," Kessa whispers. "I'll stay on them. If they turn off the road or 
stop, I'll mark it." She thinks quickly. "Three stones stacked means they 
stopped. Arrow pattern means direction change. And if I'm in trouble..." She 
touches the rogue's sign for danger - a specific scratch pattern. "Look for it on 
trees."
You nod and she's already moving, ghosting after the wagon as it rumbles 
down the southern road.
You turn and sprint east through the darkness.
Athletics check (Johannes): 12 + 0 = 12
You're not the fastest runner, but your Devil's Sight means you can navigate 
the forest at full speed where others would stumble. You cover the quarter 
mile to the dell in good time, your lungs burning slightly.
The horses whinny softly as you approach - they recognize you. You quickly 
remove their hobbles and lead them back toward town, moving as fast as you 
can while keeping them quiet and controlled.
Animal Handling check (Johannes): 15 + 0 = 15
The horses sense your urgency but remain calm. You guide them through the 
forest edge, back toward the southern road.
It takes maybe twenty minutes total. When you emerge onto the road south of 
town, you scan for signs of Kessa.
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19
There - about half a mile down the road, a small mark on a tree trunk. Kessa's 
sign. The wagon is still moving south, and she's still following.
You mount up and lead Kessa's horse at a quick trot, following the road.
Within a few minutes, you spot her - a shadow detaching from the treeline as 
you approach.
"They're about a quarter mile ahead," she reports quietly, mounting up 
quickly. "Still heading south, steady pace. No turns, no stops."
You both continue the pursuit on horseback now, able to keep pace much 
more easily while staying back far enough to avoid detection.
Where do you think this wagon is heading, and what's your plan?
No need for a plan until at know more, so just keep following and watching 
for ambush or unwelcome company
Dec 4
You and Kessa settle into a steady pursuit, keeping about a quarter mile back. 
The wagon's pace is unhurried - they're not expecting to be followed.
The road continues south through increasingly open terrain. Farmland gives 
way to rolling hills dotted with sparse woods. The moon is up now, providing 
some ambient light for Kessa, though your Devil's Sight remains the superior 
vision.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17 Perception check (Kessa): 
14 + 5 = 19
An hour passes. Then two. The wagon maintains its steady pace.
Kessa rides close beside you, scanning for threats. "No other traffic on this 
road. Nobody following us either, far as I can tell."
Survival check (Johannes): 13 + 1 = 14
You're heading almost directly south now. If you continued this direction, 
you'd eventually hit the mountains where Xak Tsaroth lies, but that's days 
away. More immediately, this road should pass through several small 
settlements and eventually connect to...
Wait.
"Kessa," you say quietly. "This road. It eventually connects to the trade routes 
heading toward the coast. Toward port cities."
She processes that. "Slave ships." Her voice is flat. "They're not just taking 
people. They're trafficking them."
Ahead, the wagon continues its journey into the night.
After another half hour, you see the wagon beginning to slow. There's a 
structure ahead - looks like an old waystation or abandoned inn, set back from 
the road.
The wagon pulls off toward it.
What do you do?
Find a place to leave the house, then observe the structure from cover
Dec 4
You and Kessa guide the horses off the road, finding a small copse of trees 
about 200 yards from the waystation. You tie them securely where they can't 
be easily seen from the road.
"Stay quiet," Kessa murmurs to her horse, giving it a final pat.
You both move forward on foot, using the sparse cover to approach the old 
waystation.
Stealth check (Johannes): 13 + 2 = 15 Stealth check (Kessa): 21 + 5 = 
26
You settle into cover about 80 feet from the structure. Your Devil's Sight 
reveals the details:
It's definitely an old waystation - two stories, weather-worn wood, partially 
collapsed stable attached to one side. The wagon has pulled up to the front. 
The two robed drivers are climbing down.
Perception check (Johannes): 19 + 1 = 20 - Excellent!
As the robed figures move, you get a clear look at one in profile when it turns. 
Under the hood, you catch a glimpse of scaled skin. Reptilian features. 
Definitely not human.
Draconians.
Your blood runs cold. The same creatures serving Verminaard. The same ones 
you encountered in Xak Tsaroth.
One of the draconians knocks on the waystation door in a specific pattern - 
clearly a signal. The door opens, and two more robed figures emerge.
They begin conversing in low voices. You're too far to hear clearly, but you 
catch fragments: "...on schedule..." "...twelve in this load..." "...ship leaves in 
three days..."
They're moving toward the back of the wagon to unload the prisoners.
Kessa has seen the draconians too. She looks at you, her face grim. "This just 
got a lot more complicated."
What do you do?
Wait and watch. Are there lookout our guards?
Dec 4
Perception check (Johannes): 17 + 1 = 18
You scan the waystation carefully, looking for sentries or lookouts.
There - on the second floor, a figure silhouetted briefly in a window before 
moving back into darkness. One lookout, at least, watching from above.
The stable area appears empty, but the door is open. Could be more inside, 
could be nothing.
The four draconians at the wagon open the back. You watch as they begin 
pulling people out - the young man you saw, plus three others you didn't see 
loaded. All four prisoners move with that same blank, compliant expression, 
climbing down from the wagon without resistance.
The draconians lead them inside the waystation. The door closes behind them.
Perception check (Kessa): 18 + 5 = 23
Kessa nudges you and points. Through a ground-floor window, you can see 
movement inside - flickering lamplight, shadows of multiple figures moving 
around.
"At least six draconians total," she whispers. "Probably more. Plus four 
prisoners now inside. And we don't know if there are more prisoners already 
here from previous loads."
She's quiet for a moment. "They said 'ship leaves in three days.' This is a 
staging point. They're collecting people here before moving them somewhere - 
probably to the coast like you said."
The wagon remains outside, horses still hitched. The lookout on the second 
floor resumes his position at the window.
"We can't take six-plus draconians," Kessa states flatly. "Not just the two of us. 
But if we leave now to get help, more wagons might arrive. More people 
trapped."
What do you do?
Suggestions, Kressa?
Dec 4
Kessa is quiet for a long moment, thinking tactically.
"Okay. Facts: Six or more draconians, unknown number of prisoners inside. 
They're staging people here for three days before moving them. That means 
more wagons are probably coming from Thornhaven and who knows where 
else."
She counts on her fingers. "Options I see:
One: Ride hard for Haven, get actual authorities or adventurers. Takes a full 
day, maybe more. By then, this place might be empty and the prisoners gone.
Two: We try to sabotage this operation quietly. Kill the lookout, free the 
prisoners, steal the wagon, scatter their operation. High risk, but if we're 
smart and fast..." She doesn't sound convinced.
Three: We follow the money - or in this case, follow where the prisoners go 
next. If they're moving them in three days, we could track the route, find the 
ship, report the whole operation. Bigger picture, but we abandon the people 
already here.
Four: We do what we do best - reconnaissance. Map out how many 
draconians, where prisoners are held, guard patterns. Then we make a hit-
and-run raid right before they're about to move everyone. Chaos and 
confusion work in our favor."
She looks at you seriously. "Personally? I think we're in over our heads. This 
isn't random bandits - it's organized draconian slavers working for 
Verminaard. But..." She touches the Bag of Holding at her side. "We're also 
carrying something they'd probably kill for. Which means we can't exactly 
waltz into Haven and ask for help without questions."
She waits for your thoughts.
What do you say?
Well, it's possible the wagon drivers leave for more slaves, so let's wait to see if 
the odds change. If nothing else, we go with option 4. We are in over our 
head, but sometimes you just have to swim whether you want to our not.
Dec 4
Kessa nods, a slight smile crossing her face despite the circumstances. "Swim 
it is, then. Let's see if we get lucky with the wagon."
You both settle in to watch, the night growing colder around you. The herb 
sachets around your necks provide a small comfort - at least you know you're 
protected from that singing creature's charm.
An hour passes. The waystation remains quiet except for occasional movement 
visible through the windows. The lookout on the second floor changes position 
periodically but never leaves his post.
Then, the front door opens.
Two draconians emerge - the same two who drove the wagon. They exchange 
words with another draconian in the doorway, then climb back onto the wagon 
bench.
Perception check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
The wagon turns around, heading back north. Back toward Thornhaven.
Kessa grins in the darkness. "There's our luck. That's two gone, at least four 
still inside."
After the wagon disappears up the road, you wait another twenty minutes to 
be sure. The waystation settles into a watchful quiet.
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19
Now that you've been watching for over an hour, you've learned the pattern: 
The second-floor lookout checks the windows every ten minutes or so. Ground 
floor shows movement - at least two draconians moving around. The prisoners 
are probably being held somewhere inside, likely secured.
Kessa whispers, "Four to two are better odds. Want to scout closer? See if 
there's a back entrance? Figure out where they're keeping the prisoners?"
What do you do?
The more we know, the safer we'll be when the pushing turns to something 
more bloody
Dec 4
"Agreed. Knowledge first, violence as a last resort," Kessa murmurs. "Let's 
circle around, check the back."
You both withdraw from your position and begin a wide arc around the 
waystation, staying low and using what cover the terrain provides.
Stealth check (Johannes): 17 + 2 = 19 Stealth check (Kessa): 24 + 5 
= 29
You move like ghosts. Kessa is in her element - this is what rogues do best.
Approaching from the rear, you get a different view of the structure. There's a 
back door, as expected. A small window on the ground floor - barred from the 
inside. And the partially collapsed stable extends from the eastern side.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
Through the barred window, you can see into what looks like a storage room. 
And there - huddled in the corner - four figures sitting on the floor. The 
prisoners. They're not bound, but they're still under the charm's effect, sitting 
docile and quiet with those same empty smiles.
One draconian guard stands near them, leaning against the wall, clearly bored.
The back door appears unguarded from the outside, but you can hear 
movement from within - at least one more draconian on the ground floor.
Kessa points to the collapsed stable. "Could get us to that barred window. 
Maybe even onto the roof if we're careful."
Perception check (Kessa): 19 + 5 = 24
She notices something else. "Johannes - see that? The stable's roof connects to 
the second floor. If we could get up there, we might reach the lookout from an 
unexpected angle."
She looks at you. "So we've got: four prisoners in a locked room with one 
guard. At least two more draconians on the ground floor, one lookout upstairs. 
Back door is our best entry point, but it'll be loud once we go in."
What's your plan?
Let's try for the roof. Getting rid of that lookout quick and quiet really could 
help...
Dec 4
"Good call," Kessa whispers. "Take out the eyes first."
You both move carefully toward the collapsed stable. The structure is 
precarious - rotted wood and missing boards - but it does provide a way up.
Athletics check (Johannes): 11 + 0 = 11 Athletics check (Kessa): 18 + 
3 = 21
Kessa scales the damaged stable wall like it's nothing, testing each handhold 
before committing her weight. You follow more carefully, your warlock's body 
not quite as suited to climbing. You make it up, but not without a few close 
calls that make your heart pound.
The stable's roof is uneven but solid enough. From here, you can see that 
Kessa was right - it connects to the second floor of the waystation. There's a 
window about fifteen feet away, partially open.
Stealth check (Johannes): 15 + 2 = 17 Stealth check (Kessa): 22 + 5 
= 27
You creep across the roof. Through the open window, you can see into the 
second floor - a hallway, and there, the lookout draconian standing at the front 
window, watching the road north.
His back is to you.
Kessa draws her rapier slowly, silently. She looks at you, eyebrows 
raised: Your call - magic or blade?
The draconian is maybe 10 feet from the window you're at. One good blast of 
Eldritch energy, or Kessa could slip in and try for a silent takedown. But Baaz 
draconians turn to stone when they die - and that stone crumbles loudly.
What do you do?
Kressa with a dagger to the throat. I'll look for a blanket or something that 
could be used to muffle the sound at the same time?
Dec 4
Kessa nods, sheathing her rapier and drawing a dagger instead. She 
understands - a blade to the throat might give you precious seconds before the 
death transformation.
You both slip through the window as silently as possible.
Stealth check (Johannes): 19 + 2 = 21 Stealth check (Kessa): 25 + 5 
= 30
Your feet touch down without a sound. The hallway has two closed doors and 
some old furniture - including a moth-eaten blanket draped over a broken 
chair.
You grab it quietly, moving into position.
Kessa is already ghosting toward the draconian, dagger ready. She's close now 
- five feet, three feet...
Kessa's attack roll: 23 + 7 = 30 - Critical Hit! Damage: 2d4 + 3 + 6d6 
(sneak attack) = 4 + 3 + 19 = 26 damage
Her blade finds the throat with surgical precision. The draconian's eyes go 
wide, but before it can make a sound, Kessa clamps her other hand over its 
mouth. It staggers, trying to turn, but she holds firm.
The creature begins to stiffen, its body starting the transformation to stone. 
You rush forward with the blanket.
Dexterity check (Johannes): 16 + 2 = 18
You wrap the blanket around the draconian just as it fully petrifies. The stone 
begins to crumble - but the blanket muffles the sound of breaking stone to a 
muted cracking rather than a loud crash.
Kessa carefully lowers the blanket-wrapped remains to the floor, breathing 
hard.
You both freeze, listening.
Perception check (Johannes): 12 + 1 = 13
From below, you hear voices - draconian voices - but they're conversational, 
not alarmed. They didn't hear anything.
Kessa gives you a thumbs up, then points to the two closed doors on this floor.
What do you do?
Use mage hand to check if they are unlocked, but don't open them. Squeaking 
hinges...bad juju. Search the body. Then retreat back to the stable. I have an 
idea.
Dec 4
Good thinking. You cast Mage Hand, the spectral appendage appearing 
silently.
It tests the first door - unlocked. The second door - also unlocked.
You don't open either, just as you said. No need to risk squeaky hinges or 
discovering something you're not ready for.
Kessa is already searching through the crumbled stone remains in the blanket.
Investigation check (Kessa): 16 + 4 = 20
She finds:
*	A shortsword (standard draconian issue)
*	A small pouch with 15 gold pieces
*	A brass whistle on a leather cord
*	A scrap of parchment with what looks like a duty roster written in 
Draconic
She pockets the gold and whistle, shows you the parchment. You can't read 
Draconic, but the format is clear enough - names, times, shifts.
You both retreat carefully back through the window and onto the stable roof, 
putting distance between yourselves and the waystation.
Once you're safely back in the cover of the trees near your horses, Kessa turns 
to you.
"Alright. You said you have an idea?"
What's your plan?
If there is hay or flammable material pull it into a corner, away from the 
structure. Kressa hides in a good place to snipe anyone leaving the structure. 
I'll find cover, start blowing the whistle and using minor illusion to make it 
look like the stable is on fire and easier for the ducks to come into range.
Dec 4
Kessa grins. "Chaos and misdirection. I like it."
You both move back toward the stable, staying low.
Investigation check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
Inside the collapsed stable, you find exactly what you need - old hay, rotted 
wood, even some oil-stained rags. You carefully drag it all to the far corner, 
away from the main waystation structure. Don't want to actually burn down 
the building with prisoners inside.
Kessa scouts positions while you work.
Perception check (Kessa): 18 + 5 = 23
"There," she whispers, pointing to a cluster of barrels and crates about 40 feet 
from the front door. "Good sightlines, cover, and I can retreat if needed."
She takes position, loading her hand crossbow and laying out her vials of 
scorpion venom. "Ready when you are. I'll focus on whoever comes out first - 
probably their leader or toughest fighter."
You position yourself in cover with a view of both the stable and the front 
door. The brass whistle is in your hand.
"On your signal," Kessa breathes.
You blow the whistle - sharp, urgent blasts. The kind of alarm a panicked 
guard would give.
Then you cast Minor Illusion. Flames appear to lick up the stable's far corner, 
orange and red dancing in the darkness, smoke seeming to billow.
Deception check (the illusion's believability): 16 + 3 = 19
It looks real. Very real.
From inside the waystation, you hear shouting. Draconian voices, harsh and 
alarmed.
The front door slams open. Two draconians rush out, looking toward the 
"fire."
Roll for initiative!
Initiative:
*	Johannes: 15
*	Kessa: 18
*	Draconians: 9
Kessa goes first. What does she do?
Attack the leader or toughest fighter of the two...
Dec 4
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
Kessa takes careful aim at the larger of the two draconians - a Bozak by the 
bronze scales and the way it's barking orders to the other.
Attack roll: 19 + 7 = 26 - HIT! Sneak Attack applies - target hasn't 
seen her yet Damage: 1d6+3 (crossbow) + 1 (magic) + 3d6 (sneak 
attack) = 4 + 3 + 1 + 11 = 19 damage!
The bolt takes the Bozak in the shoulder, spinning it around. It hisses in pain 
and fury, immediately scanning for the source.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
The two draconians are about 30 feet from you, focused on the "fire" and now 
on finding Kessa's position. The Bozak is wounded but still standing. The 
other is a standard Baaz.
What do you do?
HeX and EB on the Bozak
Dec 4
You mark the wounded Bozak with your Hex curse, dark energy coiling around 
it, then unleash your Eldritch Blast.
Hex applied - disadvantage on Constitution checks
Eldritch Blast - First beam: 17 + 6 = 23 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 
(Agonizing Blast) + 1d6 (Hex) = 7 + 3 + 4 = 14 damage!
Second beam: 9 + 6 = 15 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 6 + 3 + 2 = 
11 damage!
Total: 25 damage to the Bozak!
Both beams slam into the Bozak's chest. It staggers backward, scales cracking, 
dark energy crackling around the wounds. It's still standing, but barely - 
smoke rising from the impact points.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The Bozak, realizing it's critically wounded, begins casting. Its claws move in 
arcane patterns as it chants.
Casting: Darkness 15' radius centered on itself!
Magical darkness erupts, engulfing both draconians. Even your Devil's Sight 
can't pierce magical darkness.
From within the darkness, you hear the Bozak barking orders in Draconic. The 
Baaz emerges from the edge of the darkness, charging toward where Kessa 
fired from.
Baaz moving 30 feet toward Kessa's position
From inside the waystation, you hear more commotion - at least one more 
draconian responding to the alarm.
 
ROUND 2 - KESSA'S TURN
The Baaz is closing on her position. The Bozak is hidden in magical darkness.
Kessa curses and shifts position, firing at the charging Baaz.
Attack: 14 + 7 = 21 - HIT! Damage: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 5 + 4 + 9 = 18 
damage!
The bolt catches it in the leg, slowing its charge but not stopping it.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
The magical darkness obscures the Bozak. The Baaz is about 15 feet from 
Kessa now. You can hear the front door opening again - reinforcements 
coming.
What do you do?
Attack the enemy engaging Kressa with EB, no hex, right?
Dec 4
Right - your Hex is still on the Bozak in the darkness. You can't transfer it until 
that target dies.
You pivot and fire both Eldritch Blast beams at the Baaz charging Kessa.
First beam: 8 + 6 = 14 - MISS!
Your first shot goes wide as the draconian weaves.
Second beam: 13 + 6 = 19 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 = 8 + 3 = 11 
damage!
The blast catches it center mass, staggering it but it keeps moving.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The Baaz reaches Kessa and swings its shortsword.
Attack: 11 + 4 = 15 - MISS!
Kessa ducks behind the barrels and the blade clangs off wood.
From the magical darkness, you hear spell casting - the Bozak again.
Casting: Web!
Sticky webbing erupts around Kessa's position, trying to pin both her and the 
Baaz!
Kessa's DEX save: 21 + 5 = 26 - Success! She's not restrained Baaz's 
DEX save: 7 + 1 = 8 - Failure! Restrained in the webbing
The Baaz snarls, caught in its ally's spell.
Two more draconians emerge from the front door - both Baaz. They spot you 
and begin moving your direction.
 
ROUND 3 - KESSA'S TURN
She's in the webbing area but not restrained. The Baaz near her is stuck.
Attack on restrained Baaz - advantage: 19 + 7 = 26 - HIT! Damage 
with sneak attack: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 3 + 4 + 15 = 22 damage!
Her rapier finds the restrained draconian's throat. It gurgles and begins 
turning to stone.
She calls out: "Johannes - four total! Two coming at you!"
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Two Baaz advancing on you (25 feet away), one Bozak somewhere in the 
magical darkness, and Kessa is in difficult terrain from the webs.
What do you do?
What spells do i have?
Dec 4
Your Current Spell Resources:
Spell Slots: 2/2 (both 3rd level)
Spells Known:
*	Hex (1st level) - currently active on the Bozak
*	Armor of Agathys (1st level)
*	Misty Step (2nd level)
*	Counterspell (3rd level)
*	Hunger of Hadar (3rd level)
*	Fly (3rd level)
Cantrips:
*	Eldritch Blast
*	Minor Illusion
*	Mage Hand
*	Prestidigitation
Items:
*	Scroll of Misty Step (in addition to knowing the spell)
You also have your Cloak of the Manta Ray, Ring of Feather Falling, and Rope 
of Entanglement in your gear, though those aren't directly combat relevant 
right now.
The two Baaz are 25 feet away and closing. The Bozak is hidden in magical 
darkness somewhere near the stable. Kessa is dealing with the webbing.
What do you do?
Remind me what hunger of hsdar does
Dec 4
Hunger of Hadar (3rd level, Concentration, 1 minute)
You open a gateway to the dark between the stars, creating a 20-foot-radius 
sphere of blackness and bitter cold centered on a point within 90 feet.
Effects:
*	The sphere is filled with magical darkness (even darkvision can't see 
through it, but your Devil's Sight can)
*	The area is difficult terrain
*	Any creature that starts its turn in the area takes 2d6 cold damage
*	Any creature that ends its turn in the area must make a DEX save 
(DC 14) or take 2d6 acid damage from tentacles
It's one of your most powerful control spells - great for area denial and 
damage over time. The 20-foot radius means you could potentially catch 
multiple enemies, and since you can see through it with Devil's Sight while 
they can't, it gives you a huge advantage.
The two Baaz are currently 25 feet from you and grouped together. The Bozak 
is somewhere in its own Darkness spell near the stable.
What do you do?
One EB each at the two Baaz
Dec 5
You split your fire, sending one beam at each charging Baaz.
First beam (left Baaz): 6 + 6 = 12 - MISS!
The first blast goes wide as the draconian dodges.
Second beam (right Baaz): 15 + 6 = 21 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 = 5 + 
3 = 8 damage!
The second beam catches the right Baaz in the chest, scorching scales, but it 
keeps coming.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The two Baaz close the distance, reaching you. Both attack with shortswords.
Left Baaz attack: 18 + 4 = 22 - HIT! Damage: 1d6 + 2 = 5 + 2 = 7 
damage!
The blade slashes across your arm. Current HP: 32/39
Right Baaz attack: 9 + 4 = 13 - MISS!
You deflect the second attack with your cloak.
From the magical darkness near the stable, you hear the Bozak moving, 
chanting again - another spell.
Casting: Magic Missile at Johannes!
Three glowing darts streak out from the darkness.
Damage: 3d4+3 = (2+3+1)+3 = 9 force damage!
The missiles slam into you. Current HP: 23/39
Kessa yells from her position: "Johannes!"
 
ROUND 4 - KESSA'S TURN
She's extricating herself from the webbed area (difficult terrain, half 
movement). She fires her hand crossbow at the left Baaz engaging you.
Attack: 16 + 7 = 23 - HIT! No sneak attack - you're in melee with 
it Damage: 1d6+4 = 2 + 4 = 6 damage!
The bolt hits but doesn't drop it.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
You're engaged in melee with two Baaz (one wounded for 8, one wounded for 
7+6=13 total). The Bozak is still hidden in magical darkness, casting spells at 
you.
What do you do?
Misty step to beat Kressa, but away from the webbing
Dec 5
You disappear in a puff of silvery mist and reappear 25 feet away, near Kessa 
but clear of the webbing.
Spell slot used: 1/2 remaining
The two Baaz snarl in frustration, left attacking empty air where you just 
stood.
Kessa grins. "Nice. Now what?"
The two Baaz at your former position turn and begin moving toward you 
again. The Bozak's magical darkness still obscures the stable area - you can't 
see it, but it can apparently see or sense you well enough to target spells.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The two Baaz charge toward your new position (they can move 30 feet, 
reaching you again).
Left Baaz attack: 7 + 4 = 11 - MISS! Right Baaz attack: 13 + 4 = 17 - 
HIT! Damage: 1d6 + 2 = 4 + 2 = 6 damage!
Another cut across your side. Current HP: 17/39
From the darkness, the Bozak casts again.
Casting: Magic Missile at Johannes again!
Three more darts streak toward you.
Damage: 3d4+3 = (4+2+1)+3 = 10 force damage!
Current HP: 7/39 - You're in serious trouble!
Kessa sees your condition. "Johannes! Disengage and drink a potion - NOW!"
 
ROUND 5 - KESSA'S TURN
She fires at the right Baaz (the one that just hit you).
Attack: 20 + 7 = 27 - HIT! Sneak attack applies: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 6 + 4 
+ 13 = 23 damage!
The bolt takes it in the eye. It crashes to the ground and begins turning to 
stone.
"One down! Get clear!" she shouts.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
One Baaz in melee with you. Bozak still hidden in darkness, hammering you 
with spells. You're at 7/39 HP.
What do you do?
Disengage, move away, then drink greater healing
Dec 5
Smart call - survival first.
You take the Disengage action, preventing the Baaz from getting an 
opportunity attack, and move 30 feet away from it, putting distance between 
yourself and immediate danger.
You pull out a Greater Healing potion and drink.
Greater Healing: 4d4+4 = (3+2+4+1)+4 = 14 HP restored!
Current HP: 21/39
Not great, but no longer on death's door.
 
DRACONIANS' TURN
The remaining Baaz pursues you, closing the distance again (30 feet 
movement).
Attack: 5 + 4 = 9 - MISS!
Its swing goes wide as you dodge while drinking.
From the magical darkness, the Bozak emerges - it's moving toward the 
waystation door, clearly planning to retreat inside or get reinforcements.
You can see it now - bloodied, scorched from your earlier blasts, but still 
mobile. Your Hex is still active on it.
 
ROUND 6 - KESSA'S TURN
She fires at the Bozak as it tries to retreat.
Attack: 12 + 7 = 19 - HIT! Damage: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 4 + 4 + 10 = 18 
damage!
The bolt catches it in the back. The Bozak stumbles, then collapses. Its body 
begins the death throes - bones exploding outward.
Everyone within 5 feet of the Bozak: DEX save DC 12 or take 1d6 
damage
Nobody's that close. The bones clatter harmlessly.
Your Hex ends with its death.
"Just the one left!" Kessa calls.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
One wounded Baaz in melee with you. The waystation door is still open - 
unknown if more enemies inside.
What do you do?
Disadvantage on EB?
Dec 5
Yes - you're within 5 feet of the Baaz, so ranged attacks (including Eldritch 
Blast) have disadvantage.
You have a few options:
1.	Attack with disadvantage (roll EB at disadvantage)
2.	Disengage and back up (use action to safely move away, no attack 
this turn)
3.	Step back 5+ feet (provokes opportunity attack, but then you can 
blast without disadvantage)
What do you do?
He, then eb
Dec 5
You mark the Baaz with Hex, dark energy wreathing around it, then unleash 
Eldritch Blast.
First beam with disadvantage: 19, 7 - takes lower = 7 + 6 = 13 - 
MISS!
The beam goes wide in the close quarters.
Second beam with disadvantage: 15, 4 - takes lower = 4 + 6 = 10 - 
MISS!
The second blast also fails to connect as you're too close.
 
BAAZ'S TURN
It swings at you with its shortsword.
Attack: 14 + 4 = 18 - HIT! Damage: 1d6 + 2 = 3 + 2 = 5 damage!
Another cut across your chest. Current HP: 16/39
 
ROUND 7 - KESSA'S TURN
She moves to get a clear angle and fires.
Attack: 18 + 7 = 25 - HIT! Sneak attack applies: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 5 + 4 
+ 12 = 21 damage!
Her bolt punches through the Baaz's throat. It gurgles, drops its sword, and 
begins turning to stone.
 
COMBAT ENDS
The waystation yard goes quiet except for the crumbling of stone bodies. Your 
Minor Illusion "fire" still flickers in the stable.
Kessa rushes over. "You okay? That was closer than I'd like."
You're at 16/39 HP. Three draconians dead outside. But the door to the 
waystation is still open, and you don't know if there are more inside - or if the 
guard with the prisoners heard the fight.
What do you do?
Minor illusion to sound an call for help in what might pass for garbled 
draconian inside the house, then move to cover and see what happens
Dec 5
Clever. You dismiss the fire illusion and create a new one - garbled, panicked 
sounds that could pass for Draconian words, projecting them from just inside 
the open doorway.
"Help... fire... attack..." The sounds are distressed, urgent.
You and Kessa quickly move to cover positions flanking the door - you behind 
some crates, Kessa pressed against the wall.
Deception check for the illusion: 14 + 3 = 17
You wait, tense and ready.
Perception check (Johannes): 11 + 1 = 12
Thirty seconds pass. A minute.
Then - footsteps from inside. Heavy, cautious. The guard from the prisoner 
room appears in the doorway, shortsword drawn, looking around warily at the 
carnage outside.
It's a Baaz draconian, scanning the yard, trying to figure out what happened. It 
spots the crumbled stone remains of its companions.
It hisses something in Draconian - sounds like a question or curse.
Kessa has a clear shot from her position. The draconian hasn't spotted either 
of you yet - it's focused on the bodies and the "fire" that's no longer there.
What do you do?
Hex eb
Dec 5
You mark it with Hex and fire both Eldritch Blast beams from your concealed 
position.
First beam: 17 + 6 = 23 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 8 + 3 + 4 = 
15 damage!
Second beam: 11 + 6 = 17 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 7 + 3 + 2 = 
12 damage!
Total: 27 damage!
Both beams slam into the surprised draconian. The first staggers it, the second 
punches clean through its chest. It drops without even crying out, body 
already beginning its transformation to stone.
Kessa waits until it crumbles, then whispers, "That should be all of them. Four 
outside, one inside with the prisoners. Unless..." She pauses. "Want me to 
scout inside quick? Make sure there aren't more?"
The waystation door stands open. The interior is dark and quiet. Somewhere 
inside are the four charmed prisoners.
Current status:
*	HP: 16/39
*	Spell Slots: 1/2 remaining (3rd level)
*	Hex: Active but target dead (can transfer as bonus action)
*	Potions remaining: 1 Greater Healing, 3 Healing
What do you do?
Chug regular healing then follow kressa inside
Dec 5
You pull out a regular healing potion and drink it down.
Healing Potion: 2d4+2 = (3+4)+2 = 9 HP restored!
Current HP: 25/39
Better. You nod to Kessa and follow her inside, your Devil's Sight cutting 
through the darkness.
The waystation's interior is musty and abandoned-feeling. A common room 
with overturned furniture, a staircase leading up (where you killed the 
lookout), and a door to the back where you saw the prisoners through the 
barred window.
Kessa moves silently to that door and tests it. Locked.
Through the door, you can hear soft sounds - breathing, maybe quiet 
humming. The prisoners.
"We need to break their charm before we free them," Kessa whispers. 
"Otherwise they'll just wander back to Thornhaven or worse, alert other 
draconians if any are around."
She looks at you. "The herbs worked for us against the singing. Maybe if we 
burn some near them? Or..." She thinks. "The woman said Marta lasted longer 
with the smoke. Maybe prolonged exposure breaks it? Or maybe we need to 
get them far away from that singing creature?"
She tries to peer through the barred window. "They're just sitting there. 
Smiling. Waiting."
What do you do?
Is there a crazier or fireplace nearby?
Dec 5
Perception check (Johannes): 15 + 1 = 16
Yes - in the common room, there's a stone fireplace. It's cold now, but there's 
kindling and some old logs stacked beside it, plus ash from previous fires.
You also spot an old iron brazier in the corner - the kind used for heating or 
light. It's portable, with a handle for carrying.
Kessa sees where you're looking. "Good thinking. We can burn the herbs in the 
brazier, bring it into the room with them. If it worked for Marta..."
She starts gathering the materials while you check your herb sachet. You've 
got sage, wormwood, and vervain.
Within a few minutes, you have:
*	Brazier with hot coals (started with your Prestidigitation to ignite the 
kindling)
*	Herbs ready to burn
*	The locked door to the prisoner room
"Once we open that door and start the smoke, we'll need to watch them," 
Kessa says. "If they try to leave or attack us while still charmed, we'll have to 
restrain them somehow." She fingers the Rope of Entanglement at her belt. 
"This might come in handy."
Do you:
1.	Pick the lock and bring the brazier in
2.	Try something else first
3.	Search the rest of the waystation before dealing with the prisoners
What do you do?
Search first for threats, then loot, and if it's all clear, check the corpses
Dec 5
"Good call. Let's clear the building first," Kessa agrees.
You both move methodically through the waystation, your Devil's Sight 
revealing every shadow.
Ground floor: Common room (clear), kitchen area (empty, some old 
supplies), storage closet (empty).
Second floor: You head up the stairs carefully.
The hallway where you killed the lookout - still clear, stone dust in the blanket. 
The two closed doors you tested earlier with Mage Hand.
Kessa picks the first lock.
Investigation check (Johannes): 13 + 1 = 14
A sparse bedroom. Single cot, a trunk at the foot. You search the trunk - some 
clothes (draconian-sized), 25 gold pieces, a whetstone, and a small ledger.
The ledger appears to be a log of "shipments" - dates, numbers, locations. 
Recent entries show:
*	"Thornhaven - 12"
*	"Millford - 8"
*	"Crossroads - 5"
Numbers of people taken.
Kessa opens the second door.
Investigation check (Kessa): 19 + 4 = 23
Another bedroom, but this one has signs of the Bozak's occupation. A spell 
component pouch, another 40 gold pieces, and most interesting - a sealed 
letter bearing a wax seal you recognize: the symbol you saw on the draconians 
in Xak Tsaroth. Verminaard's forces.
"Should we open it?" Kessa asks.
What do you do - open the letter now, or finish searching first?
Finish the search
Dec 5
"Let's be thorough first," you say, pocketing the letter.
You finish checking the second floor - nothing else of note. Back downstairs, 
you head outside to search the bodies.
Investigation check (Johannes): 12 + 1 = 13 Investigation check 
(Kessa): 17 + 4 = 21
From the crumbled draconian remains, Kessa recovers:
From the four Baaz:
*	4 shortswords (standard issue)
*	60 gold pieces total
*	2 healing potions
*	Various personal effects (worthless)
From the Bozak (the spellcaster):
*	A finer quality dagger (possibly magical - would need identification)
*	35 gold pieces
*	Spell component pouch
*	A bronze amulet with Takhisis's symbol (the five-headed dragon)
Total loot so far:
*	160 gold pieces
*	Ledger (shipment log)
*	Sealed letter from Verminaard's forces
*	2 healing potions
*	Possibly magical dagger
*	Bronze amulet (likely evil religious symbol)
*	Brass whistle (from lookout)
Kessa also checks the wagon that brought the prisoners. It's empty except for 
some chains and manacles - restraints they apparently didn't need thanks to 
the charm effect.
"Alright, building's clear, bodies are searched," Kessa says. "Ready to deal with 
the prisoners?"
The brazier with hot coals sits ready. Your herb sachet can provide the smoke. 
Four charmed people wait behind that locked door.
What do you do?
Are there windows in this room visible outside?
Dec 5
Perception check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
Yes - you remember seeing the barred window on the back of the building 
when you were scouting earlier. That's how you first spotted the prisoners 
inside.
From outside, you could see into the room clearly. The bars would prevent 
escape but allow air flow - and smoke - to pass through.
Kessa catches your thinking. "You want to smoke them out from outside? Keep 
the door locked, blow smoke through the window, see if it breaks the charm 
without us being in the room with them?"
She nods approvingly. "Safer. If they react badly or try to attack, they're 
contained. And we can watch their reactions through the window."
It would mean:
*	Taking the brazier outside
*	Positioning it near the barred window
*	Burning the herbs and directing smoke inside
*	Watching from a safe position to see if/when the charm breaks
"Only risk is if the smoke doesn't work and we need to try something else," 
Kessa adds. "But yeah, I like keeping a locked door between us and four 
potentially hostile people."
What do you do?
Follow suggested process (thank you for seeing what I was thinking!)
Dec 5
"Let's do it," you say, and Kessa grins at the shared tactical thinking.
You carry the brazier with its hot coals around to the back of the waystation. 
The barred window is about chest height. Through it, you can see the four 
prisoners still sitting docilely on the floor, that same empty smile on their 
faces.
You add the herbs to the hot coals - sage, wormwood, and vervain. Thick, 
pungent smoke begins to rise immediately.
Kessa helps you position the brazier right beneath the window, angling it so 
the smoke drifts up and through the bars into the room.
You both step back about fifteen feet and watch.
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19
For the first few minutes, nothing changes. The prisoners continue sitting, 
swaying slightly, humming that haunting melody under their breath.
Then - five minutes in - one of them (a middle-aged woman) blinks. Actually 
blinks, not that glazed stare. She shakes her head slightly, confused.
Seven minutes in, another one (the young man you saw loaded) puts his hand 
to his head as if in pain.
Ten minutes in, all four are showing signs of distress - coughing from the 
smoke, yes, but also confusion, fear dawning in their eyes as awareness 
returns.
The young man suddenly screams - a raw, terrified sound. "Where am I?! 
What - what happened?!"
The others begin to panic, looking around wildly, realizing they're locked in a 
room with no memory of how they got there.
"It's working," Kessa says. "But they're terrified. We should probably talk to 
them before they hurt themselves trying to escape."
What do you do?
Let kressa calm them and stop the smoke
Dec 5
You pull the brazier away from the window, letting the smoke dissipate. The 
prisoners inside are coughing, panicking, pressing against the locked door.
Kessa moves to the window, keeping her voice calm and steady - the tone she 
uses when talking down frightened marks. "Hey! Listen to me. You're safe. 
You're not in danger."
The prisoners turn toward her voice, terror still evident.
"My name is Kessa. That's my partner Johannes. You were under a magical 
charm - mind control - but it's broken now. You're at an old waystation south 
of Thornhaven."
"Thornhaven?" the young man gasps. "I... I don't remember... there was 
singing, and then..." His face goes pale. "They took us. Those... 
those things took us!"
An older man in the group speaks, his voice shaking. "How long? How long 
have we been...?"
"About a day," you say, stepping into view. "The creatures that took you are 
dead. You're safe now."
The woman who broke free first looks between you desperately. "My family - 
are they...?"
Kessa's expression is carefully neutral. "Still in Thornhaven. Still under the 
charm. We're working on that."
She looks at you. "We should let them out, give them water, let them process. 
They'll need time before we can question them properly."
What do you do?
Don't let them out, but give them water through the windows until we can be 
sure they aren't faking. Insight or perception check?
Dec 5
Smart - trust but verify.
Insight check (Johannes): 15 + 1 = 16 Insight check (Kessa): 18 + 5 = 
23
You both watch them carefully as Kessa passes waterskins through the bars.
The four prisoners drink desperately - real thirst, not performance. Their body 
language is genuine: trembling hands, darting eyes checking exits, the kind of 
hypervigilance trauma victims show. The young man keeps touching his own 
arms as if reassuring himself he's real.
The woman who broke free first starts crying - real tears, shoulders shaking. 
"We were just... standing there. Smiling. I could see myself doing it but I 
couldn't stop. Couldn't scream. Couldn't run."
The older man sits heavily against the wall. "I watched them load Marcus into 
a wagon. Watched myself help them. Couldn't do anything..." His voice breaks.
Kessa looks at you and nods slightly. They're genuine.
One of them - a younger woman who's been quiet - suddenly speaks up: "You 
said those things are dead. But there are more. So many more in Thornhaven. 
And that... that thing that sings..." She shudders. "It's still there. Still singing."
Do you let them out now, or ask questions first through the 
window?
Since we're here just ask questions. What can you tells us about what 
happened? Especially details about the creature.
Dec 5
You keep your position at the window. "Tell us everything you remember. 
Start with the creature - what did you see?"
The older man speaks first, his voice steadier now. "It arrived three nights ago 
with those robed monsters. They had it in a covered wagon, kept it hidden 
until dark. When they brought it out..." He swallows hard. "Beautiful. 
Unnaturally beautiful. Pale skin that almost glowed. Long silver hair. But its 
eyes... empty. Like looking into nothing."
The young man adds, "It started singing that first night. Just... walked into the 
town square and sang. People came out of their houses to listen. Within an 
hour, half the town was standing in circles around it, swaying."
"The robed ones - the dragon-things - they were organizing us," the woman 
who cried says. "Making us unload their wagons, move crates into the old 
warehouse. We worked all day yesterday, smiling the whole time. At night..." 
She shudders. "They selected people. Walked through the crowd and just... 
pointed. Those people climbed into the wagons."
The quiet younger woman speaks up again: "I saw inside one of the crates we 
were moving. Just for a second before they closed it. Chains. Collars. Iron 
bars. They're building cages."
Kessa exchanges a dark look with you. "Building cages in Thornhaven? For 
what?"
"For more people," the older man says quietly. "I heard two of the dragon-
things talking. They said Thornhaven was just the first stop. They're going to 
hit more towns - anywhere the creature's song can reach. Charm everyone, 
sort them into... into..." He can't finish.
"Cargo," you say flatly.
He nods, looking sick.
What else do you ask?
Was the creature in water
Dec 5
The question seems to catch them off guard.
"Water?" The older man frowns, thinking. "No... at least, not that I saw. It 
stood on a platform in the square. Wooden platform, maybe four feet high."
The young man shakes his head. "I don't remember any water. Why?"
But the quiet younger woman's eyes widen slightly. "Wait. There was... when 
they first brought it out of the wagon, I was close. Before the singing started. 
Its skin - it looked dry. Cracked, almost. Like it was in pain. One of the 
dragon-things brought a bucket and... and poured water over it. Then it looked 
better. Started singing."
The woman who cried adds, "Now that you mention it... the second day, 
midday, it stopped singing for a while. Looked... wrong. Diminished. They 
brought more water. Lots of it. Poured it over the creature, and it... revived? 
Started singing again."
Kessa looks at you with sudden understanding. "It needs water. It's drying out 
away from its natural environment."
The older man catches on. "You think it's some kind of water creature? Like 
a... what do they call them in the old stories? Sirens?"
You think back to your arcana knowledge - creatures that charm with song, 
need water to survive, pale otherworldly beauty...
Arcana check (Johannes): 11 + 1 = 12
Could be a siren or similar aquatic fey. They're known for luring victims with 
song, but typically they stay near water. Taking one inland would weaken it - 
hence the need for constant water.
"How often were they bringing water?" you ask.
"Every few hours during the day," the younger woman says. "Always from the 
town well. They'd haul up buckets and buckets."
What else do you ask?
Any guesses about enemy numbers?
Dec 5
"How many of those dragon-things are there? In Thornhaven, total."
The prisoners exchange looks, trying to remember through the haze of charm.
The older man speaks first. "Hard to say. When you're charmed, you see but 
you don't... process. But I remember at least eight or nine of them giving 
orders, moving around the square."
The young man nods. "Yeah, eight sounds right. Maybe ten? Some were 
always with the creature, guarding it. Others supervised us while we worked. 
And at least two were always at the wagons."
The woman who cried adds, "But they weren't all the same. Most were the 
smaller ones with the swords. But there were two bigger ones - the ones who 
could do magic. They seemed to be in charge."
"Two spellcasters," Kessa mutters. "That's a problem."
The quiet younger woman speaks up. "There were also three wagons still in 
town when they loaded us. Plus the creature on its platform. And..." She 
pauses, concentrating. "I think they had more dragon-things arriving? I have 
this memory of hearing one of them say something about 'reinforcements 
from the south' but I don't know if that was real or..."
"Real enough to worry about," you say.
So: roughly 8-10 draconians in Thornhaven (including 2 Bozak spellcasters), 
the siren creature, 3 remaining wagons, and possibly reinforcements coming.
Plus the entire town still under the charm.
Kessa looks at you seriously. "Those are bad odds, Johannes. Really bad."
What do you ask next, or do you let them out now?
Frontal assault is totally out, and commando sneak attacks can only do so 
much. Ideas, especially with horses?
Dec 5
You look at Kessa. "Frontal assault is suicide. We need to be smart about this."
She nods, thinking. "The creature needs water to survive. That's a weakness. 
And it's stationary on a platform - can't exactly chase us."
The prisoners are listening through the window, hopeful that you're planning 
something.
Kessa continues, "The horses give us mobility they don't have. Hit and run 
tactics. We could-" She pauses, an idea forming. "The town well. They said 
the dragon-things haul water from it every few hours. What if we poisoned it? 
Or fouled it somehow?"
The older man through the window speaks up: "There's only one well in the 
town square. Everything else is from the stream that runs east of town."
"So if we cut off the well..." you say, thinking it through.
"The creature starts dying," Kessa finishes. "Gets weaker. The charm might 
break on its own, or at least weaken enough that people can fight it."
The young man adds, "But you'd need to stop them from using the stream as 
backup."
Kessa taps her fingers, strategizing. "Or... we don't poison anything. 
We steal the creature. It's on a platform, probably can't move well on its own if 
it's drying out. We cause a distraction, grab it, put it on a horse, and ride. 
Without the creature singing, the charm breaks immediately."
She looks at you. "High risk, but solves everything at once. Or we could try 
something else - burn the wagons? Free some prisoners to cause chaos? Use 
our herbs to break the charm on key townspeople and turn them against the 
draconians?"
What's your thinking?
I have two poison sacks from the giant scorpions from Firestone Peak. 
Poisoning the well seems a fairly low risk first step while we come up with 
other actions. Taking the siren seems to risky and leaving for help will 
probably take too much time. Let's get that much for at least
Dec 5
"The scorpion venom," you say. "We poison the well, cut off their water 
supply. Even if it doesn't kill the creature immediately, it weakens it. Makes 
everything else easier."
Kessa nods approvingly. "Low risk, high impact. I like it. Two doses of venom 
in the town's only well should make anything drawn from it deadly or at least 
unusable."
The older man through the window speaks up: "The well is right in the square. 
Middle of everything. You'll need to get close without being seen."
"Night approach, Devil's Sight advantage," Kessa says, looking at you. "We've 
done riskier."
She thinks for a moment. "We do this now, before dawn. Poison the well. Then 
we pull back, watch what happens when they try to water the creature in a few 
hours. See how desperate they get."
The quiet younger woman adds, "If the creature starts dying, the dragon-
things might panic. That's when you could strike - when they're disorganized."
Kessa looks at you. "So: poison the well tonight, observe the fallout tomorrow 
morning, then decide our next move based on how they react. Sound good?"
She gestures to the locked door. "First though - do we let these four out? Give 
them horses and send them to Haven? Or keep them here where it's safe until 
this is resolved?"
What do you do?
Send them to Haven. They might know folks who can couch for them and their 
story, which is better than what we can do and it keeps them out of harms 
way. Ask them to return the horses while they're at it.
Dec 5
"We'll let you out," you say. "But you need to leave immediately. Ride to 
Haven, tell the authorities everything you told us. Return the horses to the 
waystation where we rented them - they'll know the place."
You move to unlock the door while Kessa retrieves the horses from where you 
left them.
The four prisoners emerge, still shaky but gaining composure. The older man 
grips your arm. "Thank you. Both of you. You saved our lives."
"Save your thanks," you say. "Get to Haven. Tell them about Thornhaven, 
about the draconians, about the slave operation. Names, faces, anything you 
remember."
Within twenty minutes, you have the prisoners mounted - two per horse. 
They're not skilled riders, but fear will keep them focused.
The young man looks back as they prepare to leave. "What about you? What 
are you going to do?"
"End this," Kessa says simply.
They ride west into the darkness, toward safety.
You and Kessa stand alone at the waystation now. The night is deep - maybe 2 
AM. Dawn is still four hours away.
"We move on foot from here," Kessa says. "Quiet approach to Thornhaven, 
poison the well, get out clean. We've got your Devil's Sight, my stealth skills, 
and two doses of scorpion venom."
She checks her weapons. "Ready?"
Current Status:
*	HP: 25/39 (Johannes)
*	Spell Slots: 1/2 (3rd level)
*	Potions: 1 Greater Healing, 3 Healing (Johannes) / 3 Greater Healing, 3 
Healing + 2 from loot (Kessa)
*	2 Scorpion Venom doses
*	Herb sachets for protection
What do you do?
Poison the well, then long rest, maybe back in the glade.
Dec 5
"Let's do this," you say.
You and Kessa set out on foot, moving north back toward Thornhaven. The 
half-mile trek is careful and quiet - no need to rush and risk being spotted.
Stealth check (Johannes): 18 + 2 = 20 Stealth check (Kessa): 24 + 5 
= 29
You move like ghosts through the night. Your Devil's Sight and Kessa's rogue 
instincts make you nearly invisible.
Approaching Thornhaven from the south, you can hear it before you see it - 
that haunting, hypnotic singing drifting through the darkness. The siren is still 
at it, tireless.
You circle around to the east, using the same route as before. The town is 
eerily active despite the late hour - you can see charmed townspeople still 
standing in their circles around the square, swaying to the song.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
You count six draconians visible - two near the platform where the siren sings, 
two supervising the wagons, two patrolling the perimeter. The two Bozak 
spellcasters are likely resting somewhere, but you can't see them.
The well is right there in the center of the square, maybe thirty feet from the 
siren's platform. Getting to it means getting dangerously close to everything.
Kessa whispers, "We need a distraction. Or perfect timing. Your call - how do 
we get to that well?"
What's your plan?
One last Minor illusion, maybe growls and howls from a pack of wolves at the 
towns edge on the opposite side of the clearing?
Dec 5
"Wolves," you whisper. "Far side of town. Draw them away."
Kessa grins. "I like it. Give me two minutes to get into position near the well. 
When you hear me whistle - soft, like a bird - start your wolves."
She ghosts away into the darkness, circling wide around the square.
You work your way to the western edge of town, opposite the square. After two 
long minutes, you hear it - a soft nightingale call. Kessa's signal.
You cast Minor Illusion.
Snarling, howling - a pack of wolves, maybe half a dozen by the sound. 
Aggressive, territorial. The kind of sound that demands attention.
Deception check: 18 + 3 = 21 - Excellent!
The effect is immediate. The two perimeter draconians snap to attention, 
hissing warnings to each other. They start moving toward the sound, 
shortswords drawn.
One of the draconians near the wagons joins them, barking orders.
Three draconians now moving away from the square, toward your illusory wolf 
pack.
The charmed townspeople don't react at all - still swaying, still smiling.
Perception check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
Through the crowd, you see Kessa - just a shadow moving between the 
swaying bodies. She reaches the well, pulls out both venom sacs, and dumps 
them into the water.
Ten seconds. Twenty.
She melts back into the crowd of charmed townspeople, using them as cover.
The draconians are now at the western edge, searching for wolves. One of 
them is starting to look suspicious - your illusion doesn't have tracks or scent.
Kessa appears beside you in the darkness, breathing steady. "Done. Well's 
poisoned. Let's go."
Stealth check (Johannes): 16 + 2 = 18 Stealth check (Kessa): 21 + 5 
= 26
You both withdraw before the draconians figure out the deception. By the time 
you hear angry hissing from behind you, you're already well clear of the town.
Twenty minutes later, you're back at the dell where you originally left the 
horses. It's secure, hidden, and far enough from Thornhaven to be safe.
"Well's poisoned," Kessa says with satisfaction. "In a few hours, when they try 
to water that thing, they're in for a nasty surprise."
She's already laying out her bedroll. "We should rest. Recover spells, HP. Be 
ready for whatever happens tomorrow when they realize their water supply is 
toxic."
The night is quiet. Safe, for now.
Long Rest: You recover all HP (39/39), all spell slots (2/2), and all 
abilities. Dawn is in about 3 hours.
You both sleep in shifts, then wake with the sunrise.
"Ready to see what chaos we've caused?" Kessa asks, checking her weapons.
What do you do?
Would the top of the mill give us a good, secure vantage point that can see 
everything?
Dec 5
Perception check (Johannes): 17 + 1 = 18
You consider the mill's positioning. It's on the eastern edge of town, three 
stories tall - the tallest structure in Thornhaven besides maybe the church. The 
top floor would give an excellent view of the town square.
"The mill," you say. "High ground, good sightlines."
Kessa nods. "And we scouted it before - seemed abandoned. Should be able to 
get in quietly, set up on the top floor, watch everything unfold."
You both approach Thornhaven carefully in the dawn light, circling to the mill 
from the forest side.
Stealth check (Johannes): 15 + 2 = 17 Stealth check (Kessa): 19 + 5 = 
24
The mill is indeed abandoned. The door is unlocked, the interior dusty and 
quiet. You climb the stairs - they creak occasionally but the sound doesn't 
carry.
The top floor is perfect. Windows on all sides, mostly intact. You have a clear 
view of the town square about 150 feet away.
Perception check (Johannes): 19 + 1 = 20 - Excellent!
From up here, you can see everything:
The siren is still on its platform, still singing. But you notice something - even 
from this distance, its skin looks drier, more cracked than last night. It's been 
singing for hours without water.
The charmed townspeople - maybe fifty of them now - still sway in their 
circles.
Six draconians are visible. As you watch, one of them - a Baaz - picks up a 
bucket and walks toward the well.
"Here we go," Kessa whispers, pulling out a small spyglass from her pack to 
watch.
What do you do - just observe, or prepare for action?
Prepare but wait, let's pick optional targets.
Dec 5
"Smart. Let's identify priority targets while we watch," Kessa says, settling into 
a good firing position by the window.
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19 Perception check (Kessa): 
20 + 5 = 25
You both scan the square methodically:
Priority Targets:
Target 1 & 2: The two Bozak spellcasters. You spot them now - one near the 
siren's platform (wearing a bronze amulet, similar to the one you looted), the 
other supervising the wagons. These are the biggest threats - magic users who 
can counter your tactics.
Target 3: The siren itself. It's on an elevated wooden platform, currently 
singing. Looks weakened already from lack of water.
Target 4-7: Four Baaz draconians - two near the platform as guards, two at 
the wagons. Standard troops.
Complications:
*	~50 charmed townspeople in the square
*	3 covered wagons (unknown if they contain prisoners)
*	The town's layout limits escape routes
"If this goes loud," Kessa says, "we focus fire on the spellcasters first. They're 
the ones who can organize a response or trap us with magic."
Down below, the Baaz with the bucket reaches the well. He lowers it, pulls up 
water, and carries it toward the siren's platform.
"Any second now..." Kessa murmurs.
The draconian approaches the siren and throws the water over it.
The siren's skin sizzles. Smokes. The creature shrieks - not its melodious song 
but a raw scream of agony. It collapses off its platform onto the cobblestones, 
writhing.
The singing stops.
Instantly, the charmed townspeople falter. Confusion spreads like a wave. 
People blinking, looking around, the first stirrings of panic.
The draconians erupt into chaos - shouting at each other, the Bozak near the 
platform rushing to the fallen siren.
What do you do?
Kressa? If she nods, He EB on the distracted Bpzak.
Dec 5
You look at Kessa. She's already sighting down her crossbow, a predatory grin 
on her face. She nods once.
You lean out the window and unleash hell on the distracted Bozak crouched 
over the dying siren.
Hex applied to Bozak
First Eldritch Blast beam: 18 + 6 = 24 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 
= 9 + 3 + 5 = 17 damage!
Second beam: 14 + 6 = 20 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 6 + 3 + 4 
= 13 damage!
Total: 30 damage to the Bozak!
Both beams strike from above. The Bozak staggers, smoking holes punched 
through its robes.
Kessa's attack (hand crossbow): 22 + 7 = 29 - HIT! Sneak attack 
damage: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 5 + 4 + 16 = 25 damage!
Her poisoned bolt takes it in the throat. The Bozak collapses beside the dying 
siren, already beginning its death transformation.
In the square below, chaos erupts. The townspeople are screaming, running in 
all directions. The other Bozak is shouting orders, trying to organize the 
remaining draconians.
Four Baaz draconians remain, plus one Bozak spellcaster.
The second Bozak spots the mill - spots YOU - and begins casting.
Roll for initiative!
Initiative:
*	Johannes: 14
*	Kessa: 19
*	Bozak: 16
*	Baaz (4): 11
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
Kessa is already reloading. "Second spellcaster!"
What does she do - your call!
Fire away and I join, Bozak!
Dec 5
KESSA'S TURN
Kessa fires at the second Bozak who's casting at you.
Attack: 16 + 7 = 23 - HIT! Damage: 1d6+4 = 4 + 4 = 8 damage!
The bolt catches it in the shoulder, disrupting its concentration mid-cast. The 
spell fizzles.
 
BOZAK'S TURN
Wounded and angry, it abandons casting and shouts orders to the Baaz 
draconians, pointing at the mill. Then it moves toward cover behind one of the 
wagons.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
The Bozak is moving toward the wagon (still visible, about 140 feet away). 
Your Hex is still active from killing the first Bozak - you can transfer it as a 
bonus action to this one.
Transfer Hex as bonus action to the wounded Bozak, then Eldritch 
Blast?
First beam: 13 + 6 = 19 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 8 + 3 + 3 = 
14 damage!
Second beam: 11 + 6 = 17 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 5 + 3 + 4 = 
12 damage!
Total: 26 damage!
Both blasts catch the Bozak before it reaches cover. It stumbles, crashes 
against the wagon, and slides to the ground. Dead. Its body begins exploding - 
bones shooting outward.
Baaz DEX saves vs bone shrapnel: Two pass, two fail, taking minor 
damage
 
BAAZ TURNS (4 remaining)
Two charge toward the mill. Two stay near the wagons, looking panicked.
The charging Baaz are 140 feet away - they'll take multiple rounds to reach 
you.
 
ROUND 2 - KESSA'S TURN
"Both spellcasters down!" She targets one of the charging Baaz.
Attack: 19 + 7 = 26 - HIT! Damage: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 3 + 4 + 14 = 21 
damage!
It drops mid-charge, tumbling and turning to stone.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Three Baaz remaining - one charging at you (about 110 feet away now), two at 
the wagons looking increasingly desperate. The townspeople are fleeing in all 
directions, creating chaos.
What do you do?
Hex and EB on one of the charging draconian, but keep an eye on the siren
Dec 5
You transfer Hex to the charging Baaz and fire.
First beam: 15 + 6 = 21 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 7 + 3 + 2 = 
12 damage!
Second beam: 9 + 6 = 15 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 6 + 3 + 5 = 
14 damage!
Total: 26 damage!
The Baaz crashes down, already petrifying.
While you're firing, you glance at the siren-
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
The siren is still on the ground, convulsing. Its skin is blackened where the 
poisoned water touched it, smoking and blistering. It's dying, but not dead yet. 
It tries weakly to crawl toward the well, leaving a trail of... something viscous 
and dark.
 
BAAZ TURNS (2 remaining)
The two at the wagons make a decision - they're not stupid. They see their 
leaders dead, their numbers cut down, chaos everywhere.
They bolt. Running south down the road, abandoning everything.
 
ROUND 3 - KESSA'S TURN
She tracks one of the fleeing Baaz with her crossbow.
Attack: 18 + 7 = 25 - HIT! Damage: 1d6+4 + 3d6 = 4 + 4 + 11 = 19 
damage!
It drops before making it fifty feet.
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
One Baaz remaining, fleeing down the road about 80 feet away and running 
hard. The siren is dying on the cobblestones. The townspeople are in full 
panic, scattering.
What do you do?
Last draconian, hex EB.
Dec 5
You mark the fleeing Baaz with Hex and fire both beams.
First beam: 17 + 6 = 23 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 9 + 3 + 3 = 
15 damage!
Second beam: 12 + 6 = 18 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 5 + 3 + 4 
= 12 damage!
Total: 27 damage!
Both beams catch the draconian in the back. It crashes face-first onto the road 
and turns to stone.
 
COMBAT ENDS
Silence falls over the square - or rather, the chaos of panicked townspeople 
replaces the sounds of battle. People are running, screaming, confused, trying 
to understand what happened.
The siren gives one final, gurgling hiss and goes still. Its body begins to 
dissolve into a brackish puddle, the way fey creatures sometimes do when they 
die far from their natural habitat.
Kessa lowers her crossbow. "All hostiles down. Seven draconians dead, siren 
dead." She looks at the chaos below. "Now we have a town full of traumatized 
people who just broke free from mind control and have no idea what 
happened."
She glances at you. "Do we go down there and try to help? Or do we slip away 
before anyone connects us to the carnage?"
The three wagons sit abandoned in the square. The town's residents are slowly 
starting to realize they're free, but confusion reigns.
What do you do?
Oh, we stick around and gather as much intel as we can. This isn't over. There 
are folks who've already been taken who need help.
Dec 5
"You're right," Kessa says, already moving toward the stairs. "Those prisoners 
didn't vanish into thin air. There's a ship leaving in three days, remember? 
And who knows how many other towns are being hit."
You descend from the mill and approach the square carefully. The 
townspeople are in various states of shock - some sitting on the ground crying, 
others helping confused neighbors, a few already organizing.
As you enter the square, a middle-aged man spots you - he's holding a 
makeshift weapon, a piece of wood. "You! You were shooting from the mill!" 
His tone isn't hostile, more desperate for answers. "What... what happened to 
us?"
Others turn toward you, recognizing you weren't part of their charmed stupor.
Persuasion check (Johannes): 14 + 3 = 17
"You were under a magical charm," you say clearly. "A creature called a siren, 
brought here by those draconian slavers. They were planning to ship you and 
others to the coast. We broke the charm and killed them."
A woman steps forward - you recognize her as Marta, the herbalist whose 
journal you read. She looks haggard but alert. "The smoke... you used my 
herbs. And you..." She looks at both of you with dawning realization. "You 
saved us."
The crowd's mood shifts from confusion to cautious gratitude.
Kessa speaks up. "We need information. The draconians mentioned 
reinforcements coming from the south. And they said a ship leaves in three 
days. We need to find where they're staging prisoners and stop this operation."
What specific questions do you ask, or what do you want to 
investigate first - the wagons, the warehouse with the cages, or 
something else?
I let kressa handle the questions while I search the bodies of the fallen
Dec 5
You nod to Kessa - she's better at this anyway - and move to search the fallen 
draconians while she works the crowd.
Investigation check (Johannes): 15 + 1 = 16
The stone bodies have mostly crumbled, but you sift through the remains:
From the two Bozak spellcasters:
*	85 gold pieces total
*	Two spell component pouches
*	Another sealed letter (same wax seal as before - Verminaard's symbol)
*	A small journal written in Draconic
*	A bronze whistle (command signal)
From the four Baaz:
*	60 gold pieces
*	Standard weapons (shortswords)
*	A ring of keys
*	A folded map
The map catches your attention - it's a regional map showing Thornhaven, 
the waystation you raided, and a coastal town marked "Saltmere Port" with a 
ship symbol drawn next to it.
Meanwhile, Kessa is gathering intelligence from the townspeople:
"-took at least twenty people over two days-" "-the warehouse, they were 
building cages inside-" "-heard them say something about 'quotas' and 
'quality stock'-" "-my son Marcus, they took him in the first wagon-"
Marta approaches you as you finish searching. "Those keys," she says, 
pointing. "One of them is probably for the warehouse. They locked it after 
storing their... their equipment."
She looks at the sealed letters in your hand. "What do those say?"
Do you open the letters now, or check the warehouse first?
Warehouse, then letters. On guard though
Dec 5
"Warehouse first," you say, pocketing the letters. "Stay alert, Kessa. Could be 
more of them inside."
The keys lead you to a large building on the north side of the square - what 
was probably once a grain warehouse. Several townspeople follow at a 
cautious distance, including Marta.
You try the keys. The third one works. The heavy door swings open.
Perception check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15 Perception check (Kessa): 
19 + 5 = 24
The warehouse interior is dim, lit only by gaps in the walls. Your Devil's Sight 
reveals everything clearly.
Kessa grips your arm. "Johannes... look."
The space has been converted into a staging area:
20+ wooden crates stacked against one wall - opened, revealing iron 
collars, chains, manacles. Restraints for dozens of people.
Partially assembled cages - iron bars laid out in sections, ready to be put 
together. Enough materials for maybe 15-20 cages.
Supply crates - dried rations, water barrels (thankfully not from the 
poisoned well), medical supplies.
A work table with documents - shipping manifests, inventories, schedules.
And most chilling: A large map on the wall showing the entire region. 
Thornhaven has a check mark. Six other towns are circled - including one 
called "Millford" that the prisoner mentioned.
Kessa moves to the work table, scanning documents.
Investigation check (Kessa): 21 + 4 = 25
"Johannes, look at this." She holds up a manifest. "They're not just taking 
people randomly. They're categorizing them. 'Strong laborers,' 'skilled 
craftsmen,' 'young and healthy.' This is an organized slave trade operation."
She finds another document - a schedule. "And they're not done. According to 
this, the next target is a village called Crossroads - that's only two days from 
here. They were supposed to hit it tomorrow."
What do you do?
So we know where they are taking everyone?
Dec 5
Kessa scans through more documents on the table.
Investigation check (Kessa): 18 + 4 = 22
"Yes and no," she says, holding up the shipping manifest. "The prisoners are 
being collected at the waystation we hit - that's the staging area. From there, 
they're transported to Saltmere Port." She taps the map you found earlier. 
"That's a coastal town about four days south of here. According to this 
schedule, a ship called the Iron Tide arrives there in three days to pick up 
'cargo.'"
She flips through more papers. "But it doesn't say where the ship is going. Just 
'eastern markets' - that could be anywhere along the coast or even overseas."
Marta, who followed you in, speaks up grimly. "Saltmere Port is a legitimate 
trading town. If they're using it, they must have someone there who's 
cooperating. Port master, harbor officials..."
Kessa nods. "This is bigger than just draconians grabbing people. This is 
organized crime with infrastructure."
She looks at you. "So we know the chain: Target towns ? charm and capture 
? waystation for staging ? Saltmere Port ? the ship. We broke Thornhaven 
and the waystation. But Saltmere Port is still operational, and according to 
this schedule..." She checks the manifest again. "They already sent at least two 
wagon loads south before we hit the waystation. Those people might already 
be at the port."
She sets down the papers. "We have maybe two days before that ship arrives. 
What's our move?"
What do you do?
So Crossroads is too far for us to get to before the raid hits, right? But 
Saltmere is close enough we could get there before the final batches of slaves 
show up?
Dec 5
Kessa checks the map and does quick mental math.
"Crossroads is two days northeast of here. According to this schedule, they 
were supposed to hit it tomorrow - but that was before we killed their entire 
Thornhaven operation. Without the siren and their handlers here..." She 
shrugs. "They might delay, they might send different forces, hard to say. But 
no, we can't get there before tomorrow."
She traces a different route on the map. "Saltmere Port is four days south by 
wagon at normal pace. On horseback, pushing hard? We could do it in two and 
a half, maybe three days. The ship arrives in three days."
She looks up at you. "So yes - we could get to Saltmere before the Iron 
Tide arrives. Probably even before the last wagon loads from the waystation 
reach the port, assuming they're still operating on schedule."
Marta interjects: "If you're going to Saltmere, you should know - it's not a 
small village like Thornhaven. It's a proper port town. Maybe 2,000 people. 
Guards, militia, officials. If the draconians have people there cooperating with 
them..."
"We'd be walking into a much bigger operation," Kessa finishes. She looks at 
you seriously. "But if we can stop that ship from leaving, we save everyone 
who's already been taken. Including Marcus and whoever else from 
Thornhaven."
She taps the sealed letters you found. "Maybe these will tell us more about 
who's running things in Saltmere?"
What do you do - read the letters now, or handle something else 
first?
OPen the letters.
Dec 5
You break the wax seals on both letters. The first is written in Common, the 
second in Draconic.
Letter 1 (Common):
Commander Sarthas,
Your quota stands at 150 souls by month's end. Thornhaven's yield has been 
acceptable, but quality matters as much as quantity. The buyers at auction 
are particular - strong backs, skilled hands, young enough to be trained.
Continue operations as planned. The arrangement with Captain Drevik 
remains secure. The Iron Tide docks at Saltmere on schedule. Harbor Master 
Voss ensures smooth loading.
Lord Verminaard reminds you: this operation funds the war effort. Do not 
disappoint him.
- Regional Commander Gharash
Letter 2 (Draconic - Kessa translates for the townspeople):
Sarthas,
The merchandise must be processed before ship arrival. Captain Drevik will 
not wait. Voss has the holding facility prepared beneath the warehouse 
district. Standard fees apply.
If Thornhaven resistance emerges, eliminate witnesses. Lord Verminaard 
tolerates no exposure.
Next targets: Crossroads, then Millford. Expand westward.
- Gharash
Kessa looks up from the letters, her expression grim. "So we have names: 
Commander Gharash coordinates the operation. Captain Drevik commands 
the ship. Harbor Master Voss provides the port facility and cover."
Marta speaks up, angry. "Harbor Master Voss? He's a town official! How could 
he-"
"Money," Kessa says flatly. "Always money. Or threats. Or both."
She looks at you. "A holding facility beneath the warehouse district. That's 
where the prisoners are being kept before the ship arrives. Which means we 
need to hit Saltmere before that ship loads up and disappears."
What do you do?
We have to get moving as soon as possible. Is there anyone in town that 
would be willing to loan us the use of horses? We sent ours back with several 
of your townsfolk and speed is at a premium. Also, Marta, just in case, do you 
have more of those herbs that offset the siren, should we come in contact with 
others? Folks, we have to move, and move now. Lucky we slept when we did.
Dec 5
Marta nods immediately. "The herbs - yes, I have more. Sage, wormwood, 
vervain. I'll prepare sachets for you both. Five minutes."
A burly man in blacksmith's apron steps forward. "I'm Garrett. You saved my 
family. Take my horses - two good riding horses, strong and fast. They're at 
my stable, east side of town."
Another woman adds, "Take supplies too. Whatever you need. Food, water, 
anything."
The townspeople mobilize quickly - grateful, angry, wanting to help however 
they can.
Within twenty minutes, you have:
Two fresh horses (well-rested, strong) Herb sachets (protection against 
siren songs) Trail rations (7 days worth) Filled waterskins The letters 
and map as evidence
Marta presses the herb sachets into your hands. "Burn these if you encounter 
another siren. The smoke works better than just wearing them."
Garrett helps you mount. "Ride hard. Bring our people back."
Kessa checks the sun - it's mid-morning now. "Two and a half days hard riding 
to Saltmere if we push. We'll need to rest the horses but not much. Ready?"
The townspeople watch you - scared, hopeful, trusting you to finish this.
Current status:
*	HP: 39/39 (both rested)
*	Spell slots: 2/2
*	Fresh horses
*	Well-supplied
*	2.5 days to Saltmere, 3 days until ship arrives
Do you ride out immediately, or is there anything else you need to 
do in Thornhaven first?
Kressa? Anything I am missing?
Dec 5
Kessa does a final mental checklist, her rogue's mind running through 
contingencies.
"Letters, map, evidence - check. Supplies, horses, protection - check." She 
pauses, thinking. "Actually... one thing."
She turns to Marta. "If we don't come back, or if draconians show up here 
looking for revenge, you need to send word. Haven is west - get a rider there 
with everything we found. Tell them about Saltmere, about Voss and the Iron 
Tide, about the whole operation."
Marta nods gravely. "I'll have someone ready to ride if we don't hear from you 
in five days."
Kessa looks at you. "And one more thing - we're riding into a port town with 
corrupt officials and organized slavers. We can't just fight everyone. We'll need 
to be smart. Infiltrate, gather proof, maybe turn the town guard against Voss 
instead of fighting them all ourselves."
She adjusts her gear. "Which means we're going in as... what? Merchants? 
Bounty hunters? Travelers looking for work?" She grins slightly. "We've got 
three days of riding to figure out our story."
She looks around one more time. "Anything else, Johannes? Or do we ride?"
The horses stamp impatiently. The southern road stretches ahead. Somewhere 
down that road, prisoners are waiting in a warehouse, and a slave ship is 
approaching port.
What do you do?
Go, go, go. Acting as out-of-work slavers might help us get in contact with the 
right sort of people, especially if Kressa can finangle her social networks.
Dec 5
"Perfect," Kessa says with a predatory grin. "Out-of-work slavers looking to get 
in on the action. I can work with that."
You both mount up and kick the horses into motion, leaving Thornhaven 
behind at a gallop.
 
The first day passes in hard riding. You alternate between gallop and trot, 
preserving the horses' strength while making good time. The southern road is 
well-maintained - a main trade route to the coast.
As you ride, Kessa works on your cover story:
"We're 'procurers' from the west. Heard rumors about a profitable operation 
moving 'merchandise' through Saltmere. Looking to buy in or offer our 
services." She grins darkly. "I've run enough cons to know how these people 
talk. Greedy, paranoid, always looking for the angle."
Survival check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
You navigate well, finding good campsites and keeping the horses healthy. By 
nightfall of the second day, you're making excellent time.
Day 3 - Morning
You're perhaps six hours from Saltmere when you spot something ahead on 
the road.
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19
A wagon. Covered. Moving slowly south. And two robed figures on the driver's 
bench.
Draconians. Another transport heading to Saltmere with prisoners.
Kessa spots them too. "That's either an opportunity or a complication. We 
could take them, free whoever's inside. Or..." She thinks tactically. "We follow 
them to Saltmere, see exactly where they deliver their cargo. Learn the routes 
and procedures."
What do you do?
Since they are on the same timetable we are, and following them at a discrete 
distance will cut down decidedly on the time it takes to figure out where we 
are going, as well as avoiding drawing even more attention to ourselves and 
causing the entire operation to change patterns.
Dec 5
"Smart," Kessa agrees. "We follow, we learn, we strike when we know exactly 
what we're dealing with."
You both pull off the road, dismounting and leading the horses into the trees. 
The wagon continues its slow progress south, unaware of your presence.
Stealth check (Johannes): 17 + 2 = 19 Stealth check (Kessa): 22 + 5 
= 27
You shadow the wagon for the next several hours, staying well back, using the 
terrain and forest cover. The draconians never look behind them - they're 
confident, routine.
As midday approaches, you crest a hill and see it:
Saltmere Port spreads below you - a proper town built around a natural 
harbor. Stone buildings, wooden docks extending into the water, ships of 
various sizes anchored or tied up. Maybe 2,000 people, like Marta said. 
Bustling, legitimate-looking.
The wagon continues down toward the town, heading for the warehouse 
district near the docks.
Perception check (Johannes): 19 + 1 = 20
You spot the building immediately - a large warehouse with reinforced doors, 
positioned at the edge of the dock area. Two guards (human, not draconian) 
stand outside, trying to look casual but clearly watching.
The wagon pulls up. One of the draconians exchanges words with a guard, who 
unlocks a side door. The wagon disappears inside.
"There," Kessa whispers. "That's where they're holding everyone. 
Underground facility, remember? Beneath that warehouse."
She studies the town layout. "We ride in as travelers, get rooms at an inn, start 
asking the right questions in the right places. Sound good?"
What do you do?
Since we took a more sedate pace after running into the wagon, do we need 
to rest or anything before we get started?
Dec 5
Survival check (Johannes): 13 + 1 = 14
The horses are tired from two and a half days of hard riding, but not 
exhausted. They could use a proper stable, food, and rest tonight, but they're 
fine for now.
You and Kessa are in good shape - you rested well before leaving Thornhaven, 
and the ride wasn't physically taxing on you personally.
"We're good to go," Kessa confirms. "Horses will appreciate a stable tonight, 
but they can handle riding into town and getting established first."
She checks the sun - early afternoon. "Perfect timing actually. We ride in now, 
get rooms, stable the horses, then spend the evening gathering information. 
Taverns get talkative after dark."
She adjusts her appearance, making herself look a bit more road-worn and 
mercenary-like. "Remember - we're hard people in a hard business. Confident, 
not nervous. Looking for profit, not trouble."
The road into Saltmere is busy with legitimate traffic - merchants, sailors, 
travelers. You'll blend in easily.
"Ready to be a slaver?" Kessa asks with dark humor.
Current Status:
*	HP: 39/39 (both)
*	Spell Slots: 2/2
*	Well-supplied
*	About to enter Saltmere Port
What do you do?
Give Kressa the dragon talisman as a way of demonstrating our bona fides, 
though I want to look and see if humans are using them or only draconians. I 
don't want to bring up something that we shouldn't have inadvertently.
Dec 5
Good thinking. Before you hand it over, you both watch the warehouse district 
from your hilltop vantage point for another twenty minutes.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17 Perception check (Kessa): 
20 + 5 = 25
Kessa spots it first. "There - see that man talking to the warehouse guard? 
Human, well-dressed, looks like he's got authority."
A portly man in merchant's clothes is conversing with one of the guards. As he 
turns, you catch a glint at his chest - he's wearing something similar to the 
bronze amulet you found. Takhisis's five-headed dragon symbol, but smaller, 
more discrete. Like a badge of membership.
"So humans are in on it," Kessa says. "Probably the higher-ups who facilitate 
things. But..." She watches more carefully. "The guards aren't wearing them. 
Just that merchant-looking guy. Probably only for people actually in the 
organization, not hired muscle."
She thinks. "We shouldn't flash it immediately - we're supposed to be looking 
to get IN, not already members. But having it as proof that we've worked with 
Verminaard's forces before? That could be useful once we're talking to the 
right people."
She looks at you. "Keep it on you for now. If we need to prove our credentials 
to someone important, you produce it. But not to random guards or tavern 
workers."
Ready to ride into Saltmere now?
I follow Kressa's lead.
Dec 5
Kessa nods and you both mount up, riding down the hill toward Saltmere at 
an easy pace - just two more travelers arriving at a busy port town.
You pass through the outer streets without incident. The town is bustling with 
legitimate commerce - dock workers hauling cargo, sailors on shore leave, 
merchants haggling over prices. It all looks normal, which makes the rot 
beneath more insidious.
Kessa guides you to a mid-tier inn called The Anchor's Rest - not too fancy, 
not too seedy. The kind of place mercenaries and "business people" would 
stay.
The innkeeper is a weathered woman named Hella. She eyes you both with 
practiced assessment. "Two rooms or one?"
"Two," Kessa says. "And stabling for the horses. We'll be here a few days. 
Maybe longer if business is good."
Hella names a price - 5 silver per room per night, 2 silver for stabling. 
"Dinner's included. Ale costs extra."
You pay for two nights upfront (14 silver total) and get your keys.
Once the horses are stabled and your gear is in your rooms, Kessa meets you 
in the hallway. It's late afternoon now.
"We've got a few hours before the taverns get busy," she says quietly. "We 
could scout the warehouse district, ask some careful questions around the 
docks, or wait until evening when loose tongues and ale make information 
easier to come by."
She glances out the window toward the harbor. "That ship - the Iron Tide - it 
should arrive tomorrow according to the schedule. We've got maybe 24 hours 
to figure out how to stop this."
What do you do?
Do we have any way of querying more honest buisnessfolk while the sun's up 
about the Harbor Master and his reputation?
Dec 5
"Good idea," Kessa says. "Get the lay of the land from people who aren't 
involved. See what the honest merchants think of Voss."
You both head down to the docks area, but away from the warehouse district. 
The legitimate commercial docks are busy with afternoon activity.
Persuasion check (Kessa): 19 + 4 = 23 - Excellent!
Kessa approaches a frustrated-looking merchant supervising the unloading of 
crates from a small trading vessel. She strikes up a conversation about 
shipping rates, port fees, the usual complaints.
The merchant, a middle-aged man named Cortez, is happy to vent.
"Harbor Master Voss? Man's a bureaucrat through and through. Everything by 
the book - his book, anyway. Fees for this, fees for that." He gestures at his 
cargo. "Been shipping through Saltmere for ten years. Voss took over two 
years ago, and suddenly there's 'security fees' and 'inspection costs.' Bleeds us 
dry."
Kessa nods sympathetically. "Sounds like he's got the town by the throat."
"You'd think the town council would do something, but Voss has friends." 
Cortez lowers his voice slightly. "Dangerous friends, if the rumors are true. 
People who ask too many questions about his operations... tend to leave town 
quickly. Or stop asking."
Another merchant nearby overhears and adds, "The warehouse district - the 
eastern section - that's all Voss's territory now. 'Private storage facilities' he 
calls them. Nobody goes in without his say-so."
What else do you ask, or do you move on to evening information 
gathering?
Evening gathering. I am not looking to get people talking about the 
newcomers asking questions.
Dec 5
Smart. You and Kessa withdraw before drawing too much attention.
"Let's get dinner, blend in, and wait for the taverns to fill up," Kessa says. 
"That's when the real information flows."
 
Evening at The Anchor's Rest
The common room fills as dusk settles. Dock workers, sailors, a few 
merchants. The atmosphere is loud, relaxed - people unwinding after a day's 
work.
You and Kessa claim a corner table with good sightlines. Hella brings stew and 
bread. The food is decent, the ale flows freely.
Kessa nurses her drink and watches, listening to conversations around you. 
After about an hour, she nudges you subtly.
Three tables over, a group of rough-looking men are drinking heavily. One of 
them - scarred face, missing two fingers - is complaining loudly.
"-not worth the coin, I'm telling you. Voss's 'special shipments' pay well, but I 
don't like what I see in those warehouses-"
His companion elbows him hard. "Shut it, Garrick. You want to end up in the 
harbor?"
Garrick lowers his voice, but you can still hear: "I'm just saying, there's honest 
work and then there's... that. But the coin's good, so..."
They go back to drinking.
Kessa looks at you. "Hired muscle. Works for Voss. Probably guards those 
warehouses. Want me to approach, or do we wait and follow when he leaves?"
What do you do?
Wait to get Garrick alone, so as not to have to deal with peer pressure, maybe 
even get an ally?
Dec 5
"Smart," Kessa whispers. "Get him alone, away from his friends. Less bravado, 
more truth."
You both settle in to wait, nursing your drinks and appearing to be in quiet 
conversation while actually tracking Garrick's table.
An hour passes. Two. The men drink heavily. Finally, around three hours after 
you first spotted them, Garrick stands unsteadily.
"Gotta piss," he announces, heading toward the back door that leads to the 
privy.
Kessa gives you a look. "Now or never. You want to do the talking, or should I? 
Might be easier for him to open up to another man, or..." She considers. "I 
could play sympathetic, someone who understands hard choices for coin."
Garrick stumbles out the back door into the darkened alley.
Who approaches him - you, Kessa, or both? And what's your 
approach?
Persuasion, Intimidation, or Deception?
Kessa, persuasion.
Dec 5
Kessa nods and slips out the back door. You follow at a distance, staying in the 
shadows where your presence adds subtle pressure without being overtly 
threatening.
Garrick is finishing at the privy when Kessa approaches, her posture casual, 
non-threatening.
Persuasion check (Kessa): 21 + 4 = 25 - Excellent!
"Hey," she says softly. "Heard you talking in there. About Voss's work."
Garrick tenses, hand moving toward a knife at his belt.
"Easy," Kessa says, hands visible. "I'm not town guard. Not anyone official. 
Just someone who..." She pauses, letting vulnerability show. "Someone who 
understands taking coin for work that keeps you up at night."
Something in her tone resonates. Garrick's hand relaxes slightly. He's drunk 
enough to be loose-lipped but sober enough to be wary.
"Who are you?"
"Someone looking to leave that kind of work behind," Kessa says. "But first I 
need to understand what I'm walking away from. And you... you look like a 
man with a conscience trying to justify bad coin."
Garrick laughs bitterly. "Conscience doesn't feed my family." But he doesn't 
walk away.
"What's Voss got you guarding?" Kessa asks gently. "You said warehouses. 
What's in them?"
Garrick is quiet for a long moment. Then: "People. Locked up like animals. 
Men, women... waiting for a ship that's coming tomorrow."
He looks at her, pain evident even in his drunken state. "I tell myself they're 
criminals. Debtors. People who deserve it. But..." He swallows. "Some of them 
are just farmers. Villagers. Wrong place, wrong time."
What does Kessa ask next?
Who's selling them and how are they getting away with it?
Dec 5
Kessa leans in, her voice sympathetic. "Who's running this? How does 
something like this happen in a port town without everyone knowing?"
Garrick looks around nervously, even drunk enough to know he's crossing a 
line. But Kessa's genuine concern - not judgment - loosens his tongue further.
"Harbor Master Voss runs it here. But he's not the top. There's draconians - 
those scaled bastards - they bring the... the cargo. From inland. And there's 
someone higher up, someone called Gharash who coordinates everything."
He wipes his mouth. "Voss gets a cut for providing the facility and keeping the 
town guard looking the other way. Captain Drevik and his ship Iron Tide do 
the transport. They pay Voss, Voss pays us guards to keep our mouths shut 
and our eyes blind."
"And nobody questions it?" Kessa asks.
Garrick laughs bitterly. "Town council? Half of them probably get a cut too. 
The ones who don't... well, Voss has connections. People who might talk have 
a way of having accidents. Falling off docks. House fires." He shudders. "So we 
all pretend we don't see nothing. Take the coin. Try not to think about it."
He looks at Kessa directly. "Why are you asking? You planning something 
stupid?"
What does Kessa say?
Absolutely! With a big grin. And if things go right, maybe you won't have to 
try and wash away your sins with ale.
Dec 5
Kessa grins wide - reckless, dangerous, the smile of someone who's about to 
do something gloriously stupid.
"Absolutely!" she says. "And if things go right, maybe you won't have to try 
and wash away your sins with ale anymore."
Garrick stares at her, then laughs - a desperate, almost hopeful sound. "You're 
insane. You know that? Voss has twenty guards minimum. Plus whatever 
draconians show up. Plus the town watch in his pocket."
But he doesn't walk away. Doesn't call for help.
"How many prisoners?" Kessa asks, tone shifting to business.
"Last count? Maybe forty. Fifty? They've been bringing them in for a week. All 
locked up in the holding cells beneath the eastern warehouse." He rubs his 
scarred face. "The Iron Tide docks tomorrow morning. By tomorrow night, 
they'll all be gone. Sold to whoever the hell buys people."
He looks at her seriously, sobering slightly. "If you're really planning to hit 
this... you'll need help. Inside help. I'm not saying I'll..." He pauses. "But 
hypothetically, if someone were to cause a distraction at the right time, the 
guards might not be as organized as they should be."
Kessa glances toward the shadows where you're standing. Then back to 
Garrick.
"Hypothetically," she says carefully, "when would be the best time for such a... 
distraction?"
Garrick thinks. "Dawn. When the ship arrives. Half the guards will be moving 
prisoners to the docks, everything's chaos. That's when you'd have your best 
shot."
What do you do?
We can handle ourselves, but, like you said, 20 guards is a lot. I am not asking 
you to stick your neck out more than your tongue already has, though a 
distraction could go a long way toward helping. Might there be others who 
might be willing to go a bit further in such a case as this?
Dec 5
You step out of the shadows, letting Garrick see you for the first time. He 
startles, hand going to his knife again, but Kessa holds up a calming hand.
"Easy. He's with me."
You keep your voice low, reasonable. "We can handle ourselves, but like you 
said, twenty guards is a lot. I'm not asking you to stick your neck out more 
than your tongue already has. But a distraction could go a long way. Might 
there be others who feel the way you do? People who might be willing to go a 
bit further in a case like this?"
Persuasion check (Johannes): 17 + 3 = 20
Garrick studies you both, weighing risk against conscience. The ale and 
Kessa's earlier empathy have cracked something open in him.
"There's... maybe three others. Four including me. Good men once, before we 
needed the coin badly enough to stop asking questions." He swallows. "We're 
not heroes. But we're not monsters either, no matter what we've been 
guarding."
He leans against the wall. "There's Tomms - he's got two daughters. Keeps 
saying he's doing this for them, but I see how he looks at those kids in the 
cells. And Rickard, lost his farm to taxes, needed work. And Olev... he's just 
young and stupid, didn't know what he was signing up for."
Garrick looks at you directly. "What kind of distraction are we talking about? 
And what happens to us after? Voss doesn't forget betrayal."
What do you tell him?
Well, to be honest, I think that our first step might need to be taking a piece 
or two off the game board, starting with this Voss character. If we could take 
care of him, that certainly could even the odds, even a bit. Kressa?
Dec 5
Kessa nods thoughtfully. "Cut off the head. Without Voss, the guards lose their 
paymaster and their protection. Makes them a lot more willing to walk away 
or switch sides."
She looks at Garrick. "Where does Voss live? What's his routine? When's he 
most vulnerable?"
Garrick's eyes widen - he's realizing you're serious. But there's something like 
hope flickering there too.
"Voss has a house in the merchant district. North side, near the town square. 
Big place, servants, guards. He usually leaves for the docks around dawn, 
inspects operations, takes his cut." He thinks. "But tonight... tonight he'll be at 
the warehouse. Final inspection before the ship arrives tomorrow. Making 
sure everything's ready."
He leans forward. "He'll be there around midnight with maybe two of his 
personal guards. Checking inventory, tallying numbers. That's when he's 
most... accessible."
Kessa glances at you. "Midnight. That's three hours from now. We hit him in 
the warehouse, it sends a message and creates chaos right where we need it."
Garrick speaks urgently: "If you're really doing this, you need to know - Voss 
isn't just some bureaucrat. He was a mercenary before this. He's dangerous. 
And those guards with him? His personal crew. They're loyal and they're 
good."
He looks between you both. "Are you really going to try this? Two of you 
against Voss and twenty guards?"
What do you say?
Well, if we can do this right, it isn't us vs 20; it's Voss against a knife in the 
dark, a bit of splish splash and no one the wiser. Maybe the fish in the harbor 
get a bit of an extra treat?
Dec 5
Garrick stares at you, then slowly nods. "An accident. Man falls in the harbor, 
drowns. Tragic." His voice is flat, but there's a glimmer of dark satisfaction in 
his eyes. "Happens all the time to people who get careless near the docks at 
night."
Kessa grins. "Exactly. No alarm, no investigation, just an unfortunate accident. 
By the time anyone finds him tomorrow, we're already hitting the warehouse 
during the chaos of the ship's arrival."
Garrick thinks it through. "Midnight, he'll be at the eastern warehouse doing 
his inspection. But he doesn't go alone - always has Kev and Dmitri with him. 
Personal bodyguards, been with him for years."
He sketches the layout in spilled ale on a nearby crate. "Warehouse has a front 
entrance, side entrance, and a loading dock that opens to the water. That's 
how they plan to move the prisoners onto the ship - straight from cells to 
dock."
"So we could come in from the water side?" Kessa asks.
"If you can swim or boat quietly, yeah. That's your best bet. Less guards 
watching that side at night - they figure nobody's stupid enough to approach 
from the harbor." He almost smiles. "But Voss always checks the dock 
personally. Makes sure the loading area is ready. That's when he'd be most... 
vulnerable to falling in."
He looks at you both seriously. "You do this, there's no going back. You'll have 
every loyal guard and half the town watch hunting you by morning."
What's your plan?
Well, needs must when the devil drives. I might need a couple of extra...shall 
we say special items. Know anyone who might have access to that kind of 
thing who would be wise enough to forget after things are said and done?
Dec 5
Garrick raises an eyebrow. "Special items? What kind of special?"
Kessa clarifies smoothly: "Anything that helps with quiet work. Sedatives, 
poisons, maybe some smoke bombs or flashbangs if there's an alchemist in 
town. The kind of things that help two people handle situations... delicately."
Garrick considers, then nods slowly. "There's Mira. Runs an apothecary near 
the market. Sells medicine and herbs to the public, but..." He lowers his voice. 
"Word is she also provides other remedies for people willing to pay. Sleeping 
draughts, paralytic agents, things that stop a heart without leaving marks."
He looks uncomfortable. "I've heard she's supplied Voss before when he 
needed problems to go away quietly. So she knows how to keep her mouth 
shut. But..." He hesitates. "She'll want coin. Good coin. And she'll want to 
know this transaction never happened."
"How much coin?" Kessa asks practically.
"Depends what you want. Basic sleeping draught? Maybe 20 gold. Something 
lethal that looks natural? 50-100 gold. Alchemical items like smoke or flash 
powder? 30-50 gold each."
He checks the moon. "It's almost ten now. She closes her shop at sunset, but 
she lives above it. You'd need to knock on her back door, convince her to do 
business after hours."
Current funds: ~160 gold + whatever you looted (you're well-
funded)
What do you want to acquire, and do you go now?
Some kind of sleep agent that could be tossed, alchemical grenade type, if 
possible.
Dec 5
"Sleep grenade," you say. "Something we can throw that puts people down fast 
without killing them."
Garrick nods. "Mira might have something like that. Gas grenades, sleep 
powder bombs - alchemists make them for city guards sometimes. Non-lethal 
crowd control." He pauses. "Expensive though. Probably 60-80 gold for 
something reliable."
Kessa looks at you. "We've got the coin. And it's a smart play - we can use it on 
Voss's bodyguards, maybe save it for the warehouse tomorrow if things go 
loud."
Garrick gives you directions. "Market district, three streets north. Green door 
with a mortar and pestle painted on it. Knock on the back entrance - it's in the 
alley. Tell her Garrick sent you for 'special medicine.' She'll know what that 
means."
He looks between you both. "I'll be at the warehouse tonight. On duty. If 
Voss... has his accident... I'll make sure the alarm doesn't sound too quickly. 
Give you time to get clear." He swallows hard. "After that, tomorrow at dawn 
when you hit the warehouse, me and my three will cause a distraction. Create 
confusion. But we can't fight twenty guards for you."
"We're not asking you to," Kessa says. "Just chaos. We'll handle the rest."
It's nearly 10 PM now. You need to visit Mira, then be in position by midnight 
for Voss.
Do you go to Mira's apothecary now?
Yes. Post haste.
Dec 5
You and Kessa leave Garrick in the alley and move quickly through Saltmere's 
darkening streets toward the market district.
The apothecary is easy to find - a modest building with the painted mortar and 
pestle on the green door, just as Garrick described. The shop windows are 
dark, closed for the night.
You circle to the back alley. A plain wooden door, a single lantern casting dim 
light.
Kessa knocks - three sharp raps.
Silence. Then footsteps from within.
A small viewing slot opens. A woman's voice, cautious: "We're closed."
"Garrick sent us," Kessa says quietly. "For special medicine."
The slot closes. A pause. Then locks clicking.
The door opens to reveal a sharp-eyed woman in her forties, dark hair pulled 
back, wearing a practical apron over her clothes. She looks you both over with 
the assessment of someone used to dangerous clientele.
"Inside. Quickly."
You enter a back room filled with shelves of ingredients, mortars, pestles, and 
various alchemical equipment. The air smells of herbs and chemicals.
Mira closes and locks the door behind you. "Garrick doesn't send people 
unless it's serious. What do you need?"
Persuasion check (Kessa): 16 + 4 = 20
"Something that puts people to sleep fast. Throwable. Alchemical grenade that 
releases sleep agent on impact."
Mira studies you both. "That's specialized work. Expensive. And I need to 
know this conversation never happened."
"We never met," Kessa says flatly. "And we have gold."
Mira nods. "80 gold. Gets you two grenades. Glass spheres filled with 
concentrated sleep gas. Throw them, they shatter, anyone breathing the cloud 
goes down in seconds. Lasts about ten minutes before they wake naturally."
She pauses. "Anything else? Antidotes in case you catch some of your own gas? 
Healing potions?"
What do you want to purchase?
The two grenades, two antidotes. ANything else, Kessa?
Dec 5
Kessa thinks for a moment. "The grenades and antidotes, yes. Also..." She 
looks at Mira. "Do you have anything that could help us breathe underwater? 
Or hold our breath longer? We're working near the docks tonight."
Mira raises an eyebrow but doesn't ask questions. "I have a tincture - Gillweed 
extract. Drink it, and you can breathe underwater for about an hour. 30 gold 
per dose."
Kessa looks at you. You already have the Cloak of the Manta Ray, but she 
doesn't.
"One dose of that," Kessa decides. "Just in case."
Mira nods and begins gathering items:
*	2 sleep gas grenades (glass spheres, carefully wrapped)
*	2 antidotes (small vials with cork stoppers)
*	1 dose of Gillweed extract
"That's 80 for grenades, 20 for antidotes, 30 for the Gillweed. 130 gold total."
She packages everything carefully in a leather satchel. "The grenades are 
fragile. Don't drop them unless you want to sleep for ten minutes. The 
antidote works fast - drink it within a minute of exposure and you'll be fine."
She hands over the satchel. "Whatever you're doing tonight, be careful. This 
town has a way of swallowing people who cause trouble."
You now have: ~30 gold remaining, 2 sleep grenades, 2 antidotes, 1 
Gillweed dose
It's 10:30 PM. You need to be at the warehouse by midnight.
What's your approach plan for Voss?
If we have time, let's see if we can get over there in time to scout things out 
and figure out a good place for the ambush to occur.
Dec 5
"Let's scout it first," you say. "Learn the layout, find the best ambush point."
You and Kessa leave Mira's, moving through the darkening streets toward the 
warehouse district. It's 10:45 PM when you reach the edges of the dock area.
Stealth check (Johannes): 18 + 2 = 20 Stealth check (Kessa): 23 + 5 
= 28
You approach from the shadows, keeping to the edges of buildings. The 
eastern warehouse looms ahead - large, reinforced, with guards visible at the 
front entrance.
Perception check (Johannes): 17 + 1 = 18 Perception check (Kessa): 
21 + 5 = 26
From your hidden position, you map out the situation:
Front entrance: Two guards, alert, watching the street approach.
Side entrance: One guard, less attentive, smoking.
Loading dock (water side): Opens directly to the harbor. Currently 
unmanned - just a large bay door that could be raised to load cargo (or 
prisoners) directly onto boats. The dock extends about 20 feet into the water, 
with pilings and ropes below.
Kessa points to the water approach. "We come in from the harbor. Quiet swim 
or use a small boat. The loading dock area has plenty of shadows, cover from 
stacked crates and equipment."
She traces the layout. "Voss will check the dock personally according to 
Garrick. When he does, he'll be away from the main guard force. Just him and 
his two bodyguards. We hit them there - sleep grenades for the bodyguards, 
then..." She makes a throat-cutting gesture. "Voss goes in the water. Weighted 
down. Found tomorrow, if at all."
Perception check (Kessa): 19 + 5 = 24
"Look," she whispers. "There - those crates by the loading dock. Perfect hiding 
spot. We can set up there, wait for Voss to arrive."
It's 11:00 PM now. You have an hour to get into position.
What's your plan - how do you approach the loading dock?
Swim in using the cloak and the gillyweed. That leaves no traces and the odds 
are we can slip back out the way we came in.
Dec 5
"Perfect," Kessa whispers. "No boats to explain, no footprints, just a quiet 
swim in the dark."
You both circle wide around the warehouse district, finding a quiet section of 
dock about 200 yards away where you can enter the water unseen.
Kessa drinks the Gillweed extract, grimacing at the taste. "Gods, that's foul." 
Within moments, her breathing changes slightly - you can see the magic 
taking effect.
You don your Cloak of the Manta Ray, feeling the familiar transformation as 
your body adapts to aquatic movement.
Stealth check (Johannes): 19 + 2 = 21 Stealth check (Kessa): 20 + 5 
= 25
You both slip into the dark harbor water without a sound. The water is cold, 
murky, but your enhanced abilities make the swim effortless. Kessa stays 
close, moving smoothly thanks to the Gillweed.
You navigate underwater around pilings and beneath docked boats, 
approaching the warehouse loading dock from below. The swim takes about 
fifteen minutes.
Perception check (Johannes): 16 + 1 = 17
You surface silently beneath the loading dock, hidden by shadows and pilings. 
Above, you can hear footsteps - guards making rounds. The dock platform is 
about 5 feet above the water level.
You and Kessa pull yourselves up carefully, water streaming off you both. The 
stacked crates Kessa spotted earlier provide perfect cover - you're hidden, dry 
enough, with clear sightlines to where Voss will inspect the loading area.
It's 11:30 PM.
Kessa checks her weapons quietly, making sure everything survived the swim. 
She pulls out one of the sleep grenades, holding it ready.
"Now we wait," she breathes.
What's your preparation while waiting?
I look through all my possessions and spells to see what I have available that 
might help. Also, is there netting or other items lying around that could help 
constrain movement or hamper attacks?
Dec 5
You take stock while waiting in the shadows:
Your Available Resources:
*	Spells: 2/2 spell slots (3rd level) - Hex, Armor of Agathys, Misty Step, 
Counterspell, Hunger of Hadar, Fly
*	Cantrips: Eldritch Blast, Minor Illusion, Mage Hand, Prestidigitation
*	Items: 2 sleep grenades, 2 antidotes, herb sachets, Rope of 
Entanglement, Ring of Spell Storing (empty), Khisanth's Dragon Scale
*	Potions: 1 Greater Healing, 3 Healing (you) / 3 Greater Healing, 3+ 
Healing (Kessa)
Investigation check (Johannes): 14 + 1 = 15
Looking around the loading dock area, you spot:
*	Heavy fishing nets folded near the corner (could entangle someone)
*	Coils of thick rope (maritime rope, very strong)
*	Several wooden crates (could provide cover or improvised weapons)
*	Iron hooks and chains used for cargo loading (could be lethal)
*	A few barrels (could be used to weight a body...)
Most useful: The Rope of Entanglement you already have, and the fishing 
nets nearby would work excellently together to restrain targets.
Kessa notices your assessment. "Good eye. We throw the sleep grenades first - 
drop the bodyguards. Then we use nets and your magic rope on Voss if he tries 
to fight. Quick, quiet, efficient."
She positions herself with a clear throwing angle. "I'll handle the grenades. 
You be ready with Hex and Eldritch Blast if something goes wrong."
Perception check (Johannes): 18 + 1 = 19
You hear footsteps approaching - multiple sets. Voices. One is deeper, 
authoritative.
"-everything ready for dawn. Drevik won't tolerate delays-"
That must be Voss.
What's your final positioning?
What is the nature of the rope of entanglement?
Dec 5
Good question - let me clarify the Rope of Entanglement:
It's a 30-foot length of magical rope. As an action, you can command it to:
*	Entangle a creature within 20 feet of you
*	Target must make a DC 15 Dexterity save or be restrained
*	The rope has AC 20 and 20 HP
*	Restrained creature can use an action to make a DC 15 Strength or 
Dexterity check to escape
*	You can command it to release as a bonus action
So it's excellent for quickly restraining a single target - perfect for grabbing 
Voss if he tries to run or fight back after his bodyguards go down.
Combined with the fishing nets nearby, you have multiple redundant ways to 
control the situation.
The footsteps are getting closer now. Through a gap in the crates, your Devil's 
Sight shows you three figures entering the loading dock area:
Voss - a well-dressed man in his 50s, confident bearing, hand resting on a 
fine rapier at his hip. Former mercenary, as Garrick said.
Two bodyguards - armed with shortswords, alert, professional. They're 
scanning the area as they walk.
Voss is inspecting the loading area, pointing at various spots. "The prisoners 
load here. Drevik's crew handles the transfer. We just need to-"
He's about 25 feet from your hiding spot.
Kessa has the sleep grenade ready, waiting for your signal.
What do you do?
Hex EB on Voss, Kessa lobs the grenade to try and catch all three.
Dec 5
You mark Voss with Hex and fire both Eldritch Blast beams while Kessa hurls 
the sleep grenade in a high arc to catch all three.
Kessa's grenade throw (DEX check): 19 + 5 = 24 - Perfect 
placement!
The glass sphere shatters between the three men, erupting in a cloud of 
greenish gas.
CON saves vs sleep gas (DC 15):
*	Bodyguard 1: 8 - FAIL (drops immediately)
*	Bodyguard 2: 11 - FAIL (staggers, collapses)
*	Voss: 17 - SUCCESS (shakes it off, former mercenary's constitution)
Your Eldritch Blast attacks on Voss:
First beam: 14 + 6 = 20 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 6 + 3 + 4 = 
13 damage!
Second beam: 11 + 6 = 17 - HIT! Damage: 1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 8 + 3 + 2 
= 13 damage!
Total: 26 damage to Voss!
Both beams slam into Voss as he fights through the sleep gas. He's staggered, 
smoking wounds in his chest and shoulder, but still conscious and now very 
aware he's under attack.
His bodyguards are unconscious at his feet.
Voss draws his rapier with practiced speed, eyes searching the shadows for his 
attackers. "Show yourselves!" he snarls, backing toward the water's edge.
Roll for initiative!
Initiative:
*	Johannes: 13
*	Kessa: 18
*	Voss: 16
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
What does she do?
Throws the Rope at Voss.
Dec 5
KESSA'S TURN
Kessa pulls out the Rope of Entanglement and commands it forward. The 
magical rope snakes through the air toward Voss.
Voss's DEX save vs Rope: 11 - FAIL!
The rope wraps around him like a living thing, coiling around his legs, arms, 
and torso. He curses, struggling, but the magical bindings hold firm. 
He's restrained - can't move, disadvantage on attacks and DEX saves, 
attacks against him have advantage.
His rapier clatters to the dock.
 
VOSS'S TURN
He strains against the rope, muscles bulging.
STR check to escape: 14 - FAIL (needs 15)
The rope holds. Voss is trapped, rage and fear warring on his face. "You don't 
know what you're doing! Do you have any idea who I work for?!"
 
JOHANNES'S TURN
Voss is restrained, 25 feet away, his bodyguards sleeping at his feet. He's 
wounded (26 damage dealt already) but still conscious and struggling.
What do you do?
This is a guy that really can only harm all around him, so we have to cut him 
out like a cancer. I motion for Kessa to dispatch him while I do the same for 
the two bodyguards.
Dec 5
You nod to Kessa - this needs to be clean and final. She moves forward 
silently, drawing her dagger.
Kessa's attack on restrained Voss (advantage, auto-crit on helpless 
target):
Her blade finds his throat with practiced precision. Voss's eyes go wide, then 
glaze. He slumps in the magical rope's grip, dead.
You move to the two sleeping bodyguards. They're unconscious, defenseless. 
Two quick strikes with borrowed weapons from the dock - merciful in their 
speed, at least.
Combat ends.
Three bodies. No alarm raised. The loading dock is quiet except for the lap of 
water against the pilings.
Kessa releases the Rope of Entanglement, and it coils back obediently. She's 
already moving with grim efficiency, searching Voss's body.
Investigation check (Kessa): 19 + 4 = 23
She finds:
*	A heavy coin purse (80 gold)
*	Keys (probably to the warehouse and holding cells)
*	A sealed letter bearing Verminaard's symbol
*	A fine rapier (possibly magical - would need identification)
*	A bronze medallion (Takhisis symbol - proof of his involvement)
"Help me with the bodies," she says quietly. "Into the water. Deep water."
You both work quickly - the two bodyguards first, weighted with chains from 
the dock. Then Voss, his pockets filled with iron cargo hooks. They sink 
without trace into the dark harbor.
The loading dock looks undisturbed. Just shadows and silence.
Kessa checks the time. "Midnight. It's done. Now we have until dawn when the 
ship arrives."
She holds up the keys. "We've got six hours before chaos. Sleep? Or do we 
scout the holding cells now while guards think Voss is still alive?"
What do you do?
Read the letter, hand Kessa the rapier (you know she wants it!), and then let's 
take a look inside the warehouse.
Dec 5
You break the seal on the letter while Kessa examines the rapier 
appreciatively.
Letter:
Voss,
The Iron Tide arrives dawn, 6th day. Captain Drevik expects 50+ units ready 
for immediate loading. Quality over quantity - buyers pay premium for 
skilled labor and youth.
Your cut: 30 gold per unit delivered. Bonus if merchandise exceeds 
expectations.
Commander Gharash arrives within the week to inspect operations and 
discuss expansion. Lord Verminaard is pleased with Saltmere's productivity. 
Do not disappoint.
Destroy this correspondence.
- Regional Coordinator
"Thirty gold per person," Kessa says, disgusted, testing the rapier's balance. 
It's beautifully crafted, moves like an extension of her arm. "And 'units.' That's 
what we are to them."
She sheathes her old rapier and belts on Voss's. "This is definitely magical. 
Feels lighter, more responsive. I'll identify it properly later."
You both approach the warehouse's loading dock entrance. Using Voss's keys, 
the door unlocks smoothly.
Stealth check (Johannes): 16 + 2 = 18 Stealth check (Kessa): 21 + 5 
= 26
You slip inside. Your Devil's Sight reveals the interior:
A large warehouse space filled with legitimate-looking cargo - crates, barrels, 
maritime supplies. But there, in the back, partially hidden: a heavy door 
leading downward. Stairs descending into darkness.
You can hear voices from below - guards, talking casually. Sounds like maybe 
three or four of them.
Kessa whispers, "The holding cells are down there. Along with guards who 
don't yet know their boss is fish food."
What do you do?
Let's set up a quick little ambush for them. Hide in the shadows next to the 
door, use illusion to call the guards out imitating Voss, then hit them while 
they can't see. Bloody, yes, but this is a bloody business. And these folks are 
doing some of the most despicable things imaginable as slavers.
Dec 5
Kessa nods grimly. "They chose this work. Let's end it."
You both position yourselves in the shadows flanking the stairway door - 
perfect ambush positions. Then you cast Minor Illusion, projecting Voss's 
authoritative voice down the stairs.
"Get up here! Now! All of you!"
Deception check: 16 + 3 = 19
From below, you hear scrambling. "Yes sir!" Footsteps on stairs, hurried.
Four guards emerge into the dim warehouse, blinking, looking around for 
Voss.
Surprise round - you both have advantage
Kessa's attack on nearest guard: Attack roll: 19 + 7 = 26 - 
HIT! Sneak attack damage: 1d8+4 + 3d6 = 7 + 4 + 15 = 26 damage!
Her new rapier takes the first guard through the back. He drops without a 
sound.
Your turn - Hex and EB on another guard?
First beam (with advantage): 18, 12 = 18 + 6 = 24 - HIT! Damage: 
1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 9 + 3 + 5 = 17 damage!
Second beam (with advantage): 16, 8 = 16 + 6 = 22 - HIT! Damage: 
1d10 + 3 + 1d6 = 7 + 3 + 3 = 13 damage!
Total: 30 damage - guard drops dead!
Two down instantly. The other two guards are still confused, just now realizing 
they're under attack.
Roll for initiative!
Initiative:
*	Johannes: 15
*	Kessa: 19
*	Guards: 9
ROUND 1 - KESSA'S TURN
She's already moving on the third guard.
What does she do?
Can we move this to a new thread and still have access to the primary content 
or should I ask you to give us a quick summation that I can copy/paste?
Dec 5
Great question! Yes, we can continue in a new chat within this same Project, 
and I'll still have access to all the project knowledge and our campaign history 
through the project files and my memories.
However, for seamless continuity, I'd recommend asking me to create a quick 
summary of tonight's session that you can paste at the start of the new chat. 
That way the new instance of me will have immediate context for where we are 
in the combat and what just happened in Saltmere.
Would you like me to create that summary now? I can make it concise but 
comprehensive - covering the Saltmere infiltration, Voss's assassination, and 
our current combat situation with the guards.
Sounds perfect.
Dec 5
SALTMERE PORT OPERATION - SESSION SUMMARY
Mission Context: Following the Thornhaven rescue, Johannes and Kessa 
tracked the slaving operation to Saltmere Port. Intelligence gathered: Harbor 
Master Voss coordinates local operations, Captain Drevik commands the slave 
ship Iron Tide (arrives dawn tomorrow), Commander Gharash oversees 
regional operations for Verminaard. Approximately 40-50 prisoners held in 
cells beneath eastern warehouse. 20+ guards total, some conflicted about their 
work.
Key Ally: Garrick - conflicted guard who provided intel. He and 3 others 
(Tomms, Rickard, Olev) will create distraction at dawn when ship arrives. 
Garrick covering for tonight's activities.
Voss Assassination (Successful):
*	Midnight ambush at warehouse loading dock
*	Swam in using Cloak of Manta Ray + Gillweed extract (no traces)
*	Sleep grenade dropped both bodyguards
*	Hex + dual Eldritch Blast wounded Voss (26 damage)
*	Rope of Entanglement restrained him
*	All three eliminated, bodies weighted and sunk in harbor
*	Looted: 80 gold, warehouse keys, Voss's rapier (magical, now Kessa's), 
bronze Takhisis medallion, sealed letter
Letter Intel: Ship arrives dawn. Voss's cut was 30 gold per prisoner. Gharash 
inspecting operations "within the week." Operation is expanding.
Current Combat - Warehouse: Used Minor Illusion (Voss's voice) to lure 
4 guards up from holding cells. Surprise round eliminated 2 guards (Kessa's 
sneak attack + Johannes's Hex/EB combo). 2 guards remaining, just realized 
they're under attack.
Initiative Order:
*	Kessa: 19
*	Johannes: 15
*	Guards (2): 9
Current Status:
*	Johannes: 39/39 HP, 2/2 spell slots (Hex active on dead guard, can 
transfer)
*	Kessa: 38/38 HP, new magical rapier
*	Location: Main warehouse floor, ambush position near stairway to cells
*	Time: Just past midnight, ~6 hours until ship arrives
*	Items: 1 sleep grenade remaining, 2 antidotes, Rope of Entanglement 
(used, recovered)
Round 1 - Kessa's turn
Ready to continue!
Approaching weekly limitKeep working

5e Duets
Claude is AI and can make mistakes. Please double-check responses.


Claude

