Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09063 N 1 Against The Cult Of The Reptile God"
See other formats
~ Dungeon Module N1 
Against the Cult of the Reptile God 

by Douglas Niles 

AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3 


Terror by night! The village ot Orlane Is dying. Once a small and thriving community, Orlane has become 
a maze of locked doors 
and frightened faces. Strangers are shunned, trade has withered. Rumors flourish, growing wilder with 
each retelling. Terrified 
peasants flee their homes, abandoning their farms with no explanation. Others simply disappear... 

- ' ' 

No one seems to know the cause of the decay-why are there no clues? Who skulks through the twisted 
shadows of the night? Who 
or what is behind the doom that has overtaken the village? It will take a brave and skillful band of 
adventurers to solve the dark riddle 
of Orlane! 


This module is designed for 4-7 characters of first through third levels. It includes a map of the village 
and a description of its 
buildings and occupants, an overland journey to a challenging underground adventure for especially 
brave (or foolhardy ...) 
characters, and a list of pre-rolled first level characters. 


TSR Hobbies. Inc 
POB 756 
L-alte Geneva. 

Wl 53147 


TSK Hobbies (UK) Lid 
The Mill, Raihmore Rood 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


TbctjiiinrWiiiinls 

~ M Ricktt Htstiirt 


1982 TSR Hobbles. Inc. All Rights Reserved 



















































































































































































































































































































































































(r) 1980 Tsr Hobbies. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 





























































































































































































































































































Dungeon Module N1 

Against the Cult 
of the Reptile God 

by Douglas Niles 

AN ADVENTURE FOR 
CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3 


Terror by night! The village of Orlane Is dying. 
Once a small and thriving community. Orlane 
has become a maze of locked doors and 
frightened faces. Strangers are shunned, trade 
has withered. Rumors flourish, growing wilder 
with each retelling. Terrified peasants flee their 
homes, abandoning their farms with no expla 
nation. Others simply disappear... 

No one seems to know the cause of the decay 
-why are there no clues? Who skulks through 
the twisted shadows of the night? Who or what 
Is behind the doom that has overtaken the 
village? It will take a brave and skillful band of 
adventurers to solve the dark riddle of Orlane! 

This module is designed for 4-7 characters of 
first through third levels. It Includes a map of the 
village and a description of its buildings and 
occupants, an overland journey to a challenging 
underground adventure for especially brave (or 
foolhardy...) characters, and a list of pre-rolled 
first level characters. 


(r) 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random 
House, Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Hobbies (UK), Ltd. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and ADVANCED 
D&D are registered trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

The designation "TM" is used to refer to other trademarks 
owned by TSR Hobbles, Inc. 

This module Is protected under the copyright laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other unauth 
orized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR 
Hobbles, Inc. 



ISBN 0-88038-000-4 9063 

394-52864-6TSROS50 PRINTED IN U.S.A. 









ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) 

Dungeon Module N1 
Against The Cult Of The Reptile God 

If you plan to participate in this module as a player, please stop 
reading here. Knowing the details of this module will make it 
less fun to play for all concerned. 

This module, N1, is the first in a line of modules written for 
novice level players and Dungeon Masters. 

INTRODUCTION 


This module is designed for play by 4-7 characters of 1st 
through 3rd levels. It includes a map of the town and a 
description of its buildings and occupants, a challenging 
underground adventure forthe especially brave (orfoolhardy...) 
characters, two additional scenarios using the town as a base, 
and a complete list of pre-generated 1st level characters. It is 
recommended that the party have at least one elf. 

The Dungeon Master (DM), should read the module carefully 
before running it for the players. Study the maps while reading 
the AREA KEYS in the module booklet. Important encounters 
are indicated by numbers on the maps. These match the 
numbers given in the area keys. The area keys have boxed 
information that may be read aloud to the players. Unboxed 
information is for the DM to use to guide the characters 
through the adventure. The DM decides how much of the DM 
information the players may learn. The DM can add or change 
the given information as desired to increase the enjoyment of 
the players-adding descriptions of room dimensions, smells, 
temperatures, the physical features/clothing/equipment of 
NPCs (non-player characters), and so on. 

The following abbreviations are used to summarize the 
information given about monsters and NPCs: 

AC = Armor Class; MV = Move; HD = Hit Dice; NM = Normal 
Man, F = Fighter, MU = Magic-User; C = Cleric; T = Thief; 
hp = hit points; #AT = Number of Attacks; D = Damage; 
SA = special attack; SD = special defense; S = Strength, 

1 = Intelligence, W = Wisdom, D = Dexterity, C = Constitution, 
Ch = Charisma. 

The AC,#AT, and Damage numbers will be adjusted for melee 
combat; with Strength, magic, and Dexterity defense bonuses 
figured in. Bonuses and damage for missile fire will be different 
in most cases. 

Atypical non-player character (NPC) would be given as: 

Dorian, an elf (F/MU 3/3; AC -2; MV 12"; hp 13; #AT 1 at +2; 
D 1-8+1; S 17, I 17, W 10, D 18, C 14, Ch 12; chainmail +2, 
shield, longsword, longbow). 

This means Dorian is an elf who combines the abilities of the 
Fighter and Magic-user classes, at 3rd level in each. His chain 
mail and shield give him a base Armor Class of AC 4; the magic 
bonus of the chain mail (+2) improves this to AC 2, and the 
defensive bonus due to dexterity (-4) gives the final adjusted 
AC of-2. The 12" move means Dorian can move 120 yards per 
game turn out-of-doors and 120 feet per game turn inside or 
underground. Dorian can take 13 points of damage before 
being out of action. He may attack once per round with his 
longsword at+1 due to his Strength and+1 because elves get a 
special +1 "to hit" bonus with a longsword. The damage 
caused by the sword is 1d8, with a +1 bonus for Strength. 


If Dorian attacks with his longbow, some of his numbers will 
change. His AC goes to -1 because he loses the benefit of his 
shield. He can fire twice each round at +4 (a +3 from his 
dexterity and+1 because elves get+1 "to hit" with longbows). 
Damage becomes 1d6 against all opponents. 


DM BACKGROUND 

The border between Gran March and the Kingdom of Keoland 
has been a peaceful one for many years. In the western section 
of this frontier, the stagnant bogs and slime-coated pools of 
the Rushmoors occupy much of an otherwise fertile plain. To 
the north of the marsh, the dark recesses of the Dim Forest 
cause even the most stalwart travelers think twice before 
entering among the tall trunks and dangling tendrils of moss. 

Only a few years ago, a group of adventurers opened a small 
caravan track through the previously untraveled Dim Forest. 
This track connects the town of Hochoch with Gran March's 
thriving capital of Hookhill. The track cuts through a narrow 
finger of the forest, and traders have to take precautions 
against the marauding creatures there. Ogres and goblins 
have been reported, often in large and bloodthirsty bands, and 
only lucky or well-armed caravans can expect to make the 
journey in safety. 

Orlane itself was founded nearly a generation ago, when 
explorers from Hochoch reported that the land between the 
Rushmoors and the Dim Forest seemed to be extremely fertile. 
Soon after the arrival of the first farmers, a temple to the 
chaotic good goddess of agriculture, Merikka, was erected, 
and thus, the village of Orlane was born. The land here proved 
to be very rich, often producing crops half again as large as 
those grown in more mundane soil. Orlane quickly grew into a 
thriving community of 300 people. 

Occasionally, the settlers were harassed by bands of hu 
manoids from the forest, or strange, scaly creatures from the 
swamp. These farmers were hardy folk, however, and were not 
intimidated by a few raids. Instead, they organized a well- 
trained militia to meet the assaults of the monsters with cold 
steel. The humanoids soon learned that Orlane was a village 
best left alone. 

Throughout the past year, the population of Orlane has 
undergone a steady decline. Many farmers have packed their 
possessions and, for unknown reasons, migrated to other, less 
fertile areas. Some homes have simply been found abandoned, 
with food on the table or crops unharvested in the field. No 
explanation has ever been offered for these strange dis 
appearances. Sometimes the families have returned in a week 
or two, and other times they have never been heard from again. 

The friendly character of Orlane has vanished as those who 
remain have become suspicious of the strange occurrences. 
Families have drawn in upon themselves, rarely conversing 
with their neighbors. Now, strangers in Orlane are more often 
met with questions and challenges than friendly invitations. 

Something sinister is at work in Orlane! 


NOTES FOR THE DM 

The Cult of the Reptile God adventure is divided into three 
parts. The first part includes adventures in the village itself, 
with special maps for the Golden Grain Inn, the Inn of the 
Slumbering Serpent, and the Temple of Merikka. The second 
part outlines adventures on the trail to the lair of the reptile 
god. The third part details both levels of the lair itself. 


2 



Orlane 

The village of Orlane (Greyhawk map hex 113/K5) is a small 
community (see the map on the inside of the module cover). 
The buildings of the village and their inhabitants are described 
in this booklet. The boxed part of each building description 
may be read aloud to the players by the DM, as they describe 
obvious features that will be noticeable at a glance. Generally, 
the players will only learn other information by questioning 
village residents or by exploring the area. 

The people living in Orlane will be identified as either reptile 
cult members or citizens. In general, there will be no visible 
distinction between the two, but clues are often given in the 
individual descriptions that will allow alert players to guess the 
difference. 

Unless otherwise stated, cult members are lawful evil, AC 10, 
and level 0. They will tend to be curious about the party, and 
will perhaps even act friendly in an effort to determine what 
brings the group to Orlane. The cult has a secret sign, made by 
pressing the right palm to the forehead, and members will 
often surreptitiously perform the gesture in order to identify 
new members. Of course, specific instructions in the key will 
always supersede these generalities. 

Citizens are generally neutral good, AC 10, and level 0. As with 
cult members, exceptions to these guidelines are mentioned in 
the key. They will generally be suspicious and noroommuni- 
cative. Most citizens are puzzled and frightened by the change 
in the character of their community. Any attempt by a party to 
run rough-shod over the entire village will result in their 
organized resistance, with the mayortaking charge. All citizens 
are worshippers of Merikka, the chaotic good goddess of 
agriculture. 

In many cases, people have been described at their daytime 
locations (children at play, farmers at work, and so on). These 
locations may be changed at the DM's discretion for evening 
and night encounters. Remember that people in a farming 
community tend to go to bed and rise early. 

The Cult 

The cult of the reptile god is being spread by a spirit naga (see 
the Monster Manual). Below the fetid waters of the Rushmoors 
extends a two-level network of damp and dingy tunnels. This is 
the headquarters of the cult and the lair of the evil spirit naga 
that has installed itself as a god. Here, kidnapped citizens are 
brought and subjected to the permanent charm of the foul 
serpent. Charmed persons are returned to the village as cult 
members, and in this insidious fashion the cult has slowly been 
growing in size. 

Victims who somehow resist this potent charm (i.e. save vs. 
Paralyzation) remain in the dungeon. They are fed to the many 
hungry reptiles there, orare turned into zombies by the naga's 
cleric and doomed to serve as mindless slaves in the naga's 
labyrinth. Current prisoners will be released and the charmed 
victims will be freed if the party can defeat the naga. 

First, however, the characters must discover how to get to its 
lair. This means investigating the local centers of cult activity; 
especially the Golden Grain Inn and the Temple of Merikka. 
The party will probably meet Ramne, a local enchanter who 
can guide them. Otherwise, the DM can guide the player 
characters along as desired-a map in either center, a 
kidnapping party to follow, another NPC who acts as a guide, 
or so on. 


START 

A group of inexperienced but courageous adventurers has 
become aware of the change in Orlane through some vague 
rumors that have been circulating around Hochoch. (The 
characters will know at least two of the following rumors 
before they plan the expedition. Roll a d6 twice; if the same 
number is rolled, roll again. A character who expresses an 
interest in learning more before the group sets out will be able 
to hear all of the rumors.) 

Rumors about Orlane 

1 The well water throughout the village of Orlane has been 
poisoned with a powerful drug, (false) 

2 Sinister and mysterious evil is at work in the village, (true) 

3 A huge, many-headed creature has been stealing children 
at night, (false) 

4 A sorcerer from the Valley of the Mage has moved to the 
Dim Forest, and is working foul enchantments there, (false) 

5 Savage crocodiles are straying far from the marsh. (true,) 

6 People in Orlane are being altered (true), and the 
"changeling" can be recognized by fang marks in their 
throats, (false) 

The party will make its preparations in Hochoch (WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(tm) map hex 114/N5), purchasing supplies from the 
charts in the Players Handbook. If pre-generated characters 
are used, allow them 2 gp per hit point for buying supplies 
beyond their weapons and armor. In other words, Ruskin, with 
5 hp, would have 10 gp for torches, rope, or whatever. Magic- 
users are assumed to be carrying their books with them. 

The adventures in Orlane are designed to be played over 
several gaming sessions. Generally the player characters will 
not be able to advance in level without training, and the nearest 
training facilities are in Hochoch, several days journey away. If 
the characters make the journey, the activities of the cult of the 
reptile god will continue in their absence (see the section on 
Cult Activities after the KEY TO ORLANE). 

BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 

The journey to Orlane will be swift and uneventful (the DM can 
cover this with a few words of description). The DM may wish 
to require a traveling order here, so that players get used to 
being on their guard. 


From Hochoch, the Realstream is quickly crossed at a 
shallow ford, and you follow a caravan track that winds 
along the south side of a narrow creek. The plains here 
are flat and grassy. Occasionally, large cottonwood trees 
grow along the stream, but in general the plain is 
unforested. 

For several days, you pass through an uninhabited 
region with no untoward experiences. Finally, staying 
always to the right of the creek, the track enters a region 
of prosperous farms surrounded by fields of grain or 
pastures for cows and goats. 

Early on the fourth afternoon of the trip, a cluster of 
buildings and trees becomes visible ahead, with the 
stone walls of a temple beyond-ORLANE. 

At the outskirts of Orlane, a large grove of elms is visible 
to the left, while several wooden buildings border the 
road to the right. 


Atthis point, the adventure begins with the characters entering 
along the track at the west edge of the village map. 


3 





KEY TO ORLANE 


Most of the buildings in Orlane have not been mapped. If the 
party chooses to enter one of them, the DM should describe a 
typical interior. Houses and shops will be one story in height 
and will have both front and back doors unless otherwise 
mentioned. Many buildings have porches. 

1. PLEASANT FARMHOUSE AND BARN: 


This wooden house is surrounded by attractive flower 
gardens, with a small barn beyond. A teenage girl is 
churning butter on the porch, but she sees your group 
and runs into the house at your approach. Shadowy 
forms are visible behind closed curtains. 


The farmer, Hewitt Twaine, and his two grown sons (AC 10; 
hp 5,4,4) will watch strangers suspiciously through the win 
dows, while the wife and daughter hide in the kitchen at the 
rear of the house. If anyone stops, Hewitt will do all of the 
talking. He will be polite, but quiet. He will never allow 
strangers inside his house. Hewitt understands that his town 
has changed drastically, but he does not know why. His barn is 
well-stocked with corn and wheat, and a dozen goats are 
penned in the back. Beneath the planks in his bedroom floor he 
has stored a sack with 54 gp, 86 ep, and 240 sp in it. 

2. CONSTABLE'S QUARTERS: 


This nondescript square wooden building has heavy 
shutters closed over the windows. The door looks stout, 
but stands open. No people are visible. Behind this 
building is another long, low structure. 


Cult members! Inside is the constable, Grover Ruskadal (F2; 
AC3; MV9"; hp 12; #AT 1; D 1-8; S 15, I 7, W9, D 14, C 15, Ch 10; 
banded mail, shield, longsword, light crossbow). He has been 
a cult member for eight months. With him are two other men 
who have recently arrived, ostensibly to visit him. The 
newcomers are also cult members: 

Donavan Allard: F4; AC 1; MV 12"; hp 21; #AT 1 at+2; D 1-6+2; 
S 17, I 9, W9, D 14, C 13, Ch 6; plate mail +1, shield, spear+1, 
and longsword. 

Hulbar Onfre: F2; AC 2; MV 9"; hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-8; S 14, I 12, 
W10, D9, C16, Ch9; banded mail, shield+1, longsword, light 
crossbow. 

If they are hailed, Grover will do most of the talking. He will try 
to find out what the characters are doing in town, how long 
they plan to stay, and so on. He will try to disarm their 
suspicions and warn them to stay out of trouble. His friends 
will support him. 

Later, if these three become aware of a group asking "too many 
questions," they will attempt to intimidate the party into 
leaving town. 

Grover keeps a sack in his desk that contains 21 gp and 88 sp. 

3. EMPTY BARRACKS: 

The building behind the constable's quarters is a barracks that 
used to be occupied by guards for the caravans traveling 
through the Dim Forest. The barracks is empty. 


4 








4. DAIRY FARM: 


This house and barn are clean, whitewashed wooden 
buildings. Several cows chew their cud just outside the 
barn. Three little girls playing in the yard of the house 
stop to gawk at your group. 


The girls are not yet old enough to be afraid. There is a 75% 
chance that an older sister of the girls will see any strangers on 
the road, and will rush outside to hustle the little ones in. 
Regardless of how this encounter starts, the party should 
eventually meet Nowell Graven, the dairyman (AC 10; hp 5), 
who will be in the barn. He has been blessed with five 
daughters, who share the house with him, his wife, and his 
mother-in-law. He is a kindly man, and if his judgement tells 
him that the strangers are friendly, he might even invite them in 
for tea and cheese. He is concerned about matters in Orlane, 
but can offer no explanations. He has 35 gp and 472 sp hidden 
in a milk can in the barn. 

5. WEAVER'S HOUSE AND SHOP: 


A sign with a spinning wheel and a loom hangs outside 
this new building. Several bales of wool are stacked on 
the wide porch. No people are visible. 


The front part of this building contains a shop. Here Galen 
Weaver, the weaver (AC 10; hp 4), runs his large loom while his 
wife works a spinning wheel. Many piles of wool, yarn, and 
cloth lie about in a state of confusion. A small bell will ring if the 
door is opened, bringing the weaverfrom his home behind the 
shop. He is a young man, newly married and moved to Orlane, 
trying to make a go of his first business. His wife is attractive 
and they are both friendly. 

If questioned, they will respond that "people are strange 
hereabouts," but they know of no reason for their neighbors' 
aloofness. They will welcome the chance to talk to outsiders, 
even inviting a small group in for a glass of wine if the time of 
day is appropriate. If the conversation continues for awhile 
they will warn strangers that the Golden Grain Inn is a strange 
place, to be avoided if at all possible. 

6. GOLDEN GRAIN INN: 


This is a large wooden inn. It is decorated with carvings 
of sheaves of wheat along the eaves of the roof. The inn 
was whitewashed at one time, but much of the paint has 
peeled. A sign picturing a cluster of wheat and a pitcher 
of beer or ale hangs over the door. A corral and stable, 
apparently empty, are off to the side. 


If the characters go in, the DM should turn to the description of 
the Golden Grain Inn following the KEY TO ORLANE. A 

complete map of the inn is also provided. 

7. JEWELER AND MONEYCHANGER: 


A gem-encrusted ring is pictured on a sign outside of this 
establishment. The doors and windows are open. The 
building is small, but looks extremely sturdy; the shutters 
and doors are of heavy wood, reinforced with iron bands. 


Haskali Ull, the jeweler/moneychanger (AC 10; hp 3), tries to 
make a living from the travelers passing between Keoland, 
Gran March, Bissel, and Geoff who require his services. His 
business has fallen off considerably in the last year. After dark, 
his doors and shutters will be locked. Haskali and his over 
bearing wife (AC 10; hp 8; Strength 16) live here with two 
guards: 


Erroll Rocktyn: F2; AC 7; MV 12"; hp 16;#AT1; D1-8; S15, I 12, 
W 9, D 13, C 17, Ch 12; leather armor, shield, longsword. 

Wylie Dunn: T3; AC 6; MV 12"; hp 10; #AT 1; D 1-8; S 13, I 11, 
W 10, D 16, C 13, Ch 15; leather armor and Shortsword. 

The latter is posing as a fighter, but is actually a cult member 
waiting for the right moment to betray his employer. 

Haskali is skilled at working with stones and soft metals, and 
will negotiate a reasonable fee for this work. He will also 
exchange types of currency for a 5% charge. In a metal box in 
his office he has 50 pp, 250 gp, 400 ep, 800 sp, 800 cp, and 30 
gems, worth 1,000 gp, 500 gp (x2), 100 gp (x3), 50gp (x4), and 
10 gp (x20). In addition, four works of jewelry are displayed in 
his shop and locked in the box at night. They are worth 1,400 
gp, 800 gp, and 400 gp (x2). 

He has several locked chests hidden beneath a secret trapdoor 
in his bedroom. The first contains 2,000 gp and 2,000 ep; the 
second 2,000 sp and 2,000 cp; and the third 500 pp and five 
gems each of 1,000 gp, 500 gp, and 100 gp worth. Each of the 
chests has a poison needle trap in the lock. The jeweler carries 
the keys on a thong about his neck at all times. His guards do 
not know about the chests. 

The DM may wish to keep track of the moneychanger's 
transactions. For example, if the player characters want to 
exchange gold for gems, and the moneychanger is out of 
gems, they may have to wait until more gems become available 
(or go to a larger town, like Hochoch). 

8. LIVERY STABLE: 


This is an exceedingly run-down structure of wood. Faint 
traces of a former paint job cling to small parts of the 
walls, but in some places the bare wood has started to 
rot. A fenced walkway leads from the road to the back of 
the house, and horse manure is scattered liberally about. 

A little boy, his face covered with dirt, is playing on the 
front porch. As you approach, he toddles out to the road, 
smiles, and says "hi!" 

This is the village stable, as the characters' noses will already 
have suggested. Much of the ground has been trampled into 
mud. The front of the dilapidated house is sheltered by a wide 
porch. All appearances to the contrary, the liveryman is quite 
well-to-do. He is simply not concerned with presenting a front 
of wealth and polish. 

The liveryman, Kilian Gade (AC 10; hp 5), his wife, and their 
three small children live here. The wife is timid, but there is an 
80% chance that she will see her son talking to strangers. If so, 
she will rush out to collect him, staring at the party with fearful 
eyes as she snatches him up. If a character makes a friendly 
comment, she will stop, embarrassed, and mutter some 
explanation about "mealtime." She will then dash into the 
house with the child. 

Kilian is at work in the stables, but his wife will call him after 
any encounter with strangers, and he will hurry to the house. If 
the party is still in front when he gets there in two rounds, he 
will step outside to apologize for his wife's hastiness. "These 
are strange times, you understand..." Unlike many Orlanians, 
he is affable and willing to carry on a conversation. He will, 
however, keep his guests on the porch. 

Kilian cannot explain the forces at work in the village, but he is 
very observant. After some small talk, he will begin to share his 
knowledge. He is suspicious of the two strangers who moved 
into the cottage across the road (9) several weeks ago. "They 
don't seem to be interested in mixing with anybody." He shares 


5 




the weaver's apprehensions concerning the Golden Grain Inn, 
and will recommend the Inn of the Slumbering Serpent for its 
superior wine and friendly atmosphere. After an hour of 
conversation, he will mention his neighbors at the general 
store: "They up and disappeared a couple months ago; gone 
fer nearly a fortnight, then the whole family came back. Didn't 
even leave one of the boys to mind the store!" 

His stable contains 4 light horses, 2 draft horses, 3 mules, 2 
oxen, and 2 small carts. His life savings (950 gp and a 200 gp 
gem) is buried in a wooden box in the farthest stall of the 
stable. 


DoRiaN aNb LlywillaN, 

Much has happeNGb iN My life siNce we f ought sibe by sibe iN the tnoll 
wait. I hope, soMGtiMe, to have a chaNce to talk with you about the 
MaNy pieasaNt thiNQS. 

My puRpose now, sably, is to ask - Nay, beg - My couuageous 
coMuabes to aib My people iN a tiMe of bine Neeb, 1 caNNOt gvgn 
bescnibe to you the baNtjGR that thReatGNS ORlaNe, fOR I kNow Not its 
tRue NatuRe. I bo kNow that, UNiess it caN soMehow be stopped, this 
evil will consumg My little village aNb its faMilies, we will vaNish 
without tRace iNto ttje the bust of histoRy. 


9. SMALL COTTAGE: 


This small, sguare building has been freshly white 
washed. Heavy curtains hang over the windows, and the 
door is shut. 


This cottage is the home of two elves. 

Dorian: F/MU 3/3; AC-2; MV 12"; hp 13; #AT 1 at+2; D 1-8+1; 
S 17, I 17, W 10, D 18, C 14, Ch 12; chainmail +2, shield, 

longsword, longbow; missile attacks at +4 due to dexterity 
ana elf bonus. 

Dorian's spells include: 

First level: magic missile, protection from evil 
Second level: web 

Llywillan: F/J 2/2; AC 5; MV 12; hp 10; #AT 1 at +2; D 1-8+1; 

S 14,110, W12, D 17, C 11, Ch 14; leather armor, longsword 
+1, longbow; missile attacks at +3 due to dexterity and elf 
bonus. 

The townsfolk are suspicious of the pair. Only the mayor 
knows why they are here, since he has asked them to 
investigate the strange occurrences in Orlane. The elves have 
learned that an evil cult is somehow controlling the minds of 
certain citizens, including the two clerics of the temple (21), 
the proprietor and regular customers of the Golden Grain Inn 
(6), the constable (2), and the blacksmith (15). The elves are 
careful, however and will not reveal this information unless 
they are absolutely certain that the party is opposed to the cult. 
Any elves present in the party will cause the pair to feel a 
natural affinity toward their cousins, but this will in no way 
lessen theircaution. In general, the party will have to engage in 
combat and capture or slay some of the known cult members 
to win the trust of these elves. 

When Dorian and Llywillan are convinced that the party is an 
ally, they will share their information. They will not join the 
group forexploringeitherthe town of the dungeon, preferring 
to work on their own. 

The elves will remain in their cottage during the day, but at 
night it is 80% likely that they will be out observing either the 
temple or the Golden Grain Inn. They have asmall metal box in 
acupboard. It is stoutly locked, and Llywillan carries the key at 
the bottom of his quiver. A thief can try to pick the lock at -10%. 
The box may also be pried open, but this will release a sleep 
gas that will affect everyone in the cottage (no saving throw) 
for 3-18 hours. Note that elves will be highly resistant to this 
gas. Roll the time of unconsciousness separately for each 
character. The gas is inside the chest, hence no attempt to find 
or remove traps will be successful. Using the key or picking the 
lock will bypass the trap. The box contains 200 pp, 55 gp, and 
this note: 


A siNisteR fORce is at woRk tiene, aNb it is Made all the morg 
fRiQhteNiNQ by the fact that its tRue NatuRe is coNceaieb iN a web of 
feaR aNb suspicion l pieab with you comg to ORiaNe, ignD yoim skills 
to RevealiNQ this MGNace, that it May fiNaliy be bestRoyeb! 

youR coMRabe, 


ZakaRias ORMONb 
Mayok of ORiaNe 


10. MAYOR'S RESIDENCE: 


This house is set well back from the road, and is partially 
screened by a pair of medium-sized elms. 

This is byfarthe most imposing house in the village. The 
walls have been regularly whitewashed and the roof 
gleams with new wooden shingles. A wide porch crosses 
fne entire front of the house, and columns of wood 

support the overhanging roof. The columns have been 

carved into leafy patterns by a skilled craftsman. 


This is the home of the village mayor and his family. The mayor 
is Zakarias Ormond, a retired but still capable 3rd level fighter 

(AC 10; hp 16; S 16, I 14, W 15, D 10, C 12 ,Ch 14; chain mail, 

shield +1, longsword +1). He keeps his weapons and armor in a 

bedroom closet (AC 3; #AT 1 at +1; D 1-8+2). The mayor's 

cheerful wife and two daughters live here, as well as two older 

sons (AC 10; hp 5,4; ring mail and shields (AC 6), and 

longswords in their room). The mayor's personal bodyguard is 
also concealed in the house. 

Zakarias is polite and curious with strangers, and is willing to 
spend hours conversing. Always, however, he is discreet, 
seeking information more readily than giving it away. He is an 
astute leader and has recognized that something is warping 
the people of his village. He has associated the changes with 
recent midnight disappearances, noticing that the folks who 
return are in a somehow altered state. He is convinced that the 
storekeeper, the smith, the carpenter, and the clerics are all 
members of this secret order. He has formed the false 
hypothesis that the old hermit in the grove west of town is 
behind the whole thing. Lack of proof has kept him from acting 
on this assumption, however. 

Hiding inside the mayor's house is his old bodyguard, Traver 

Stoutheart(F5; AC 3; MV 9"; hp 40; #AT 1; D 2-8+2; S 15, 1 7, W 9, 

D 11, C 17, Ch 9; banded mail, shield, broadsword +2). Traver 
will stay concealed in a curtained alcove until needed. He is a 
ruff, uncommunicative old soldier, who will spring from his 
iding place in a curtained alcove at the first sign of an overt 
act against the mayor. (Traver's interpretation of an "overtact" 
maybe taken very loosely-the sight of a person who might 




6 




have placed something in the mayor's wine, or a hand 
suspiciously concealed underatable, could bring him charging 
into the room with a bloodthirsty challenge. The mayor will be 
quite embarrassed if this occurs.) 

Behind the mayor's house is his woodcarving workshop, with 
tools, woodshavings, and some fine pieces of hardwood lying 
about. He did the carvings on the columns before his house. 
He is half-finished with a remarkably lifelike bust of his wife. 
Beneath the floorboards in the shop he stores a small chest, 
keeping the key in a secret pocket of his tunic. The chest 
contains 364 pp, 750 gp, 1,200 sp, and three gems worth 1,000 
gp apiece. 


11. TAILOR SHOP: 


A sign crudely depicting a needle piercing the seat of a 
pair of pants hangs before this establishment, a small, 
ramshackle building in need of considerable repair. A 
shutter hangs loosely, shingles are missing from the 
roof, and the walls show signs of rot in several places. 


This is the shop and home of the village tailor, a meek, elderly 
bachelor, Myron Tweed (AC 10; hp 3). He is terrified of 
strangers and will answer no questions. If asked to do some 
tailoring, he will allow only one person at a time into his shop, 
and will be nervous and fretting about the whole business. He 
has a sack containing 56 gp, 99 ep and 175 sp hidden among 
the bundles of cloth at the rear of his home. 


12. VILLAGE STORE: 


This isafairly well-kept establishment with an assortment 
of farm implements and cooking utensils on the wide 
porch. The door stands open, and a well-painted sign 
depicting a pot, a plow, a sack, and a lantern hangs over 

all. 


Cult members! This family was converted about three months 
ago. The husband, wife, and three grown sons (AC 10; hp 
5,3,7,6,5) will all fight, if necessary, using Shortswords. The 
husband and wife will greet customers in the store. The sons 
will remain screened by a curtain leading to the back porch, 
aiming cocked crossbows at strangers. If the visitors are 
hostile or too curious, the sons will step forward and demand 
that they leave the store. If strangers behave violently, the sons 
will shoot first and then leap into the room with swords drawn. 

The storekeeper and his wife will put on a friendly front with 
customers, knowing that their sons are backing them up. 
Mundane items such as cooking pots or sacks of meal will 
always be available. Most items listed in the Players Handbook 
can also be found here (75% chance). Weapons and armor will 
only be found on a 20% chance, rolled separately for each item. 

There are a table and several benches in the store. When 
strangers visit, the storekeeper will invite them to sit and have a 
glass of wine. There is an 80% chance per character that the 
individual will find it to be the best wine he has ever tasted. If 
asked about the wine, the storekeeper will say that it comes 
from the local winery behind the Inn of the Slumbering 
Serpent. He will attempt to get as much information from the 
party as possible, but will reveal very little about himself or his 
family. The store's cashbox contains 10 gp, 50 ep, and 100 sp. 

His house, 40' behind the store, is very run-down. In a closet in 
the master bedroom is a locked chest with 58 gp, 107 ep and 
240 sp in it. There is a poison needle trap on the chest, while the 
key is under the mattress. The rest of his valuables have been 
donated to the cult. 


13. RUNDOWN FARMHOUSE: 


This house is in desperate need of repair. The front door, 
porch steps, and visible roof supports are missing. The 
barn is in even worse condition, but the many chickens in 
the yard suggest that the place is indeed inhabited. 


Cult members! A farmer and his adult son (AC 10; hp 6,5) live 
here. The wife became the victim of the reptile god six months 
ago, when she was not charmed. The two men are rude and 
untalkative, and will claim to be busy with work around the 
farm. In fact, only small crops of corn and oats are in the fields. 
They have no treasure, save 31 sp in a kitchen jar, having 
donated their other worldly goods to the cult. 

14. CARPENTER'S SHOP: 


A wooden board in the shape of a saw hangs before this 
well-constructed building. The front part of the structure 
is unwalled, and inside of this breezy area the carpenter 
is at work. Many tools (saws, hammers, nails, prybars, 
etc.) are scattered about, and some boards are mounted 
on sawhorses. 


Cult members! The carpenter and his wife (AC 10; hp 3,3) are 
very recent cult initiates; in fact, their teenage son and 
daughter may still be alive in the snakepits of the reptile god! 
(The latter pair, of course, resisted the naga's charm.) The 
carpenter serves as a furniture maker as well as a builder, and 
numerous examples of his handiwork are placed around his 
shop. Tables, chairs, and desks-all of exquisite 
craftsmanship-may be seen in a casual inspection. The table 
that is presently under construction, however, is much more 
shoddily put together, as are the pair of chairs he has just 
completed. The latter await a coat of stain, whereas all of the 
other furniture is finished. 

His wife will spy upon strangers through a small hole in the 
door of the house. She carries a longsword that has been 
smeared with snake venom, and will attack hysterically (+1 on 
"to hit" rolls) if her husband appears to be in danger. The 
deadly venom has suffered somewhat from exposure to the air, 
so persons struck will save at +4. 

The carpenter has designed a clever secret panel in his 
bedroom wall that will slip aside to allow access to a 
compartment beyond (treat as a secret door). Here he has 
hidden a wooden box, elaborately carved with intricate leafy 
patterns. The box is worth 400 gp intact. Only the carpenter 
knows which combination of leaves to press or twist to open 
the box (a thief may try to open it at-15% to the open locks roll). 
The carpenter's treasure, soon to be donated to the cult, is 470 
gp, 175 sp, and a 500 gp piece of jewelry. 

15. BLACKSMITH'S SHOP: 


This is obviously a smithy, though no sign hangs here. 
The shop part of the building is unwalled, and two 
brawny lads operate a bellows while a giant of a man 
hammers thunderously upon a piece of metal that will 
soon become the blade of a shovel. Soot and smoke 
abound. 


Cult members! The smith, his wife, their two sons and 
daughter have been members for nearly a year. The man still 
does his work with the mechanical precision that has allowed 
him to maintain the quality that he has always been known for. 
Formerly a short-tempered and irritable man, the charm of the 
naga has unbalanced his mind slightly. There is a 25% chance 
that the approach of strangers will cause him to fly into a 
violent rage, threatening them with the wrath of the gods if they 


7 





do not flee at once. His sons will attempt to restrain him, but if 
an individual or group continues to approach, the smith will 
break free and attack. 

Even if he does not fly into a rage, the smith is unpleasant and 
rude in conversation. Any slightly aggressive orfaintly insulting 
comment will probably (66%) cause him to become enraged. 
His sons will be unable to hold him as he rushes forward. If 
combat begins they will support their father. Because of their 
size and strength, all three are formidable foes, though they 
fight at 0 level. 

Smith: AC 8; hp 8; #AT 1 at +2; D1-4+5; Strength 18(80) 

Sons: AC 8; hp 7 each; #AT 1 at +1; D 1 -6+2 

The smith will use his hammer as a weapon and the sons will 
grab Shortswords that they have hidden in the shop. Because 
of their leather aprons, all three have an AC of 8. All of their 
valuables have been donated to the cult. 

16. BATTERED AND WEATHER BEATEN STRUCTURE: 


The doors and windows of this large building are 
boarded up. A sign lies face-down in the weeds before 
the porch, which may be reached by climbing three 
broken steps. The roof has several gaping holes, and the 
general appearance of the place suggests that it has 
been long abandoned. 


The sign in the weeds, if looked at, reads in faded paint: 
FOAMING MUG INN. This establishment has been abandoned 
for nearly a year, following an attempt by the cult to kidnap the 
proprietor and his family. The attempt was foiled by the 
courage of several citizens, and a fierce fight followed, during 
which all of the citizens at the inn, as well as several cult 



members, were killed. The battle remains a mystery to the rest 
of the village, and has been dismissed asjustanotheraspectof 
the mysterious problem besetting Orlane. 

The Foaming Mug is not really abandoned, however. If the 
party should break in, or discover the secret door in the rear 
wall, they will find the ground floor in a state of total disarray, 
left as it was following the fight. A cellar door is visible, hanging 
on one hinge, and a creaky staircase leads into darkness. 

The cellar is a gloomy place and smells musty and rotten. 
Characters may notice (50% chance, 90% for elves) a foul, 
swampy stench in the air down here. Most of the cellar is one 
large room, containing several crates of spoiled foodstores 
and three kegs of wine (still good). Two doors lead to smaller 
storage rooms: a fruit cellar and a toolroom. 

The former is empty. In the latter awaits the source of the 
odor-3 troglodytes (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2; hp9; #AT 1; D 1-8; SA 
revulsion odor)! The troglodytes will have heard the party 
descend the stairs, and will be hiding to avoid detection. If the 
doorto the toolroom is opened, they will attack savagely. Each 
carries a stone axe. They have hidden a small sack in an empty 
tool crate behind the door. It contains 7 pp, 80 gp, 120 ep, 130 
sp, and 5 100 gp gems. 

The toolroom also contains hammers, nails, some long timbers, 
and a saw. 

17. DECREPIT FARMHOUSE AND COLLAPSED BARN: 


Doors and shutters swing freely here. The whole 
appearance is one of abandoned desolation. Weeds 
choke the yard before the house. 


Inside the house, searchers will find articles of clothing, 
cooking utensils, and moldy scraps of food in closed cup 
boards. It is obvious that the residents left suddenly. There are 
two bedrooms in the house, one with a double bed and the 
other with two small beds. A family of four lived here until the 
troglodytes and cult members dragged them off to the dungeon 
of the reptile god nine months ago. The evil will of the nagawas 
unable to corrupt any of them, so shortly thereafter some of the 
crocodiles ate very well... 

The unfortunate farmer's treasure remains in a hollow beneath 
the rear porch steps. Several leather sacks there contains 2 gp, 
250 ep, and 307 sp, as well as a jade statuette worth 200 gp. 

18. FARMHOUSE AND BARN: 


This farm looks moderately prosperous. The house and 
barn are in good repair, although several flower gardens 
that used to bloom in the yard have become choked with 
weeds. A strapping youth is splitting wood in the yard 
beside the house. 


Cult members! This is the home of a woman and her three 
grown sons (AC 8; hp 2,5,4,3; #AT 1; D 1-6). Her husband died 
many years ago, but the four of them have managed the farm 
quite well. They have been cult members for nearly a year, and 
the men are quite active in recruiting new members; i.e. they 
help the troglodytes subdue captives of the cult, and use the 
farm cart to transport the prisoners beyond the boundaries of 
Orlane. They have become very good at this, each performing 
as a 1 st level thief as far as "to hit" rolls, strike from behind , and 
moving silently. They have no other thiefly abilities. 

If the mother's suspicions toward the party are aroused, she 
will detail one ortwo of her sons to spy on the group and report 
on its activities. She, in turn, will keep the clerics informed. All 
of her possessions of any worth have been donated to the cult. 


8 







19. FARMHOUSE WITH SEVERAL SMALL OUTBUILDINGS: 


The smell of this area identifies it as a hog farm. In 
addition to swine, many chickens scratch about the yard, 
while a rooster and several turkeys strut regally. A 
teenage boy watches from the porch of the house. 


If anyone approaches the house, the lad will run inside, 
returning shortly with his father. This proud farmer (AC 10; 
hp 6) has been disturbed by changes in his community, and 
will send visitors on their way quickly. He will answer no 
questions, and if a group persists in trespassing, he will display 
a loaded crossbow that he has concealed on the porch, 
ordering them off of his land. The son and wife will have hidden 
in the house. The boy (hp 2) will have another crossbow aimed 
out of a window, while his mother (hp 3) waits behind the door 
with a poised spear. 

The farmer has made a decent living-his savings of 35 pp and 
328 sp is concealed in a wooden box in the chicken feed. 

20. SMALL, NEATLY KEPT COTTAGE: 


Brilliant flower gardens surround this quaint little home. 
Clean shutters flank several large windows, and fancy 
curtains are visible inside. The building is sheltered by 
several large elm trees. 


This is the home of Vilma Merridie, an elderly widow. She is 
physically weak and unable to walk more than a few feet 
between rests. She is an astute observer of occurrences in 
Orlane. She and her husband moved to the village 50 years 
ago, occupying farm 24 together until his death. For the last 
eight years, she has lived in this cottage, doing small mending 
and tending chores for her neighbors to earn a few coppers. 
Mostly, she lives off the rather considerable sum that the 
couple accumulated over forty years of farming. She wears a 
number of jeweled rings. 

Vilma will welcome visitors and invite them in for tea or wine. 
She is willing to talk and has much information to share, but if 
not questioned, she will ramble through an animated dis 
sertation about "the old days." She will tend to return to this 
topic with regularity, even when specific questions are being 
asked, but will supply answers in a roundabout way. The DM 
should prepare a few details of her rambling before play. 

She strongly suspects the carpenter (14), the smith (15), the 
farmers at 18 and 19, the clerics and temple servants (21), the 
farmer at 22, and the two people (she does not know they are 
elves) living near the mayor (9). 

Admitting that she has no factual basis for her suspicions, she 
will state that the family across the road from her (19): "used to 
be real nice, but now they act suspicious toward everyone; 
even me!" She has never liked the family at farm 18, and will 
report seeing the lads go out at all hours. The smith, she says, 
has always been an ill-tempered lout, but lately "there's just no 
talking to the man!" She has a very high opinion of the mayor, 
and hopes that the two strangers living next to him don't bring 
him any harm. If asked where to stay for the night, she will 
recommend the Inn of the Slumbering Serpent. 

She will readily admit that she doesn't know much about 
occurrences on the west end of town." I don't get out too much, 
you know..." She has seen scaly humanoids with fin-like crests 
on their heads crossing north of her cottage and climbing the 
walls of the temple. She will boldly state that she no longer 
allows the clerics to visit her, saying that they changed after 
going away suddenly for a week about a year ago. 


She wears several rings upon each hand, decorated with a 
variety of stones. The rings are worth 1,000 gp, 800 gp, 500 gp, 
and 200 gp. She has an unlocked case of jewelry worth another 
4,500 gpand a large cookie jar containing 24 pp, 85 gp, 150sp, 
and 256 cp. Vilma has lived a good life, and has been a faithful 
worshipper of Merikka throughout. If any harm is done to her, 
including theft, that benign goddess will see that a run of bad 
luck falls upon the perpetrator. This will affect party members 
or cult members alike, and consists of a -2 penalty for the next 
three days on rolls that the character or group makes (including 
initiative and surprise rolls). All rolls are affected! 

21. TEMPLE OF MERIKKA: 


This is the only stone structure in Orlane. A wall of 
granite blocks surrounds the temple, and sturdy wooden 
gates give access to a courtyard. The temple is on the 
highest piece of land in Orlane-a full 20' above the 
stream and pond. 


Cult members! The gates to the courtyard will be standing 
open during the daylight hours, but will be shut and barred 
with the setting of the sun. Vigorous pounding after dark will 
usually (100% at sunset, -5% for each hour thereafter) bring a 
servant to open them. If the characters enter, go to the Temple 
Key that follows the KEY TO ORLANE. There is a special map 
to this area also. 

22. SHABBY FARMHOUSE AND BARN: 


This residence gives the impression that it has seen 
much use and that its owners have had little time for 
improving its appearance. A small infant is playing next 
to the house, and several chickens and a huge rooster 
poke about the yard. 


Cult members! This family has recently been converted. The 
group consists of a husband (hp 6), his wife, their adult 
daughter, their son (hp 5), son-in-law (hp 4), and the younger 
couple's small child. The farm is well run, though battered (it 
has looked that way since long before the family's indoc 
trination into the cult). Large stores of barley, wheat, and corn 
are in the barn. A small vineyard west of the house is lush with 
ripe grapes. All of the persons here have been slightly numbed 
by their recent experience with the naga, and will appear 
distant and removed if talked to. They will be neither friendly 
nor hostile, and questions may have to be repeated several 
times before getting an answer. 

Because of the confused state of the family, shrewd questions 
might gain some useful information. The attention span of 
these folks is too short for them to conduct any significant 
conversation, however. 

23. PROSPEROUS FARMHOUSE AND BARN: 


Two small children play in the yard, but at the sight of the 
party they immediately run for the house. This building 
looks solidly constructed and has been recently 
whitewashed. The barn is a clean structure, though not 
painted, and several goats wander in a small corral. A 
pen housing an immense pig is visible just south of the 
barn. 


This farmer is actually a ranger, Alan Clayborn (R4; AC 10; 
hp 29; #AT 1 at+2; D 1-8+3; S 16, I 13, W 15, D 12, C 15, Ch 12). 
He has retired from the adventurous life with his wife, Marieke 
(F3; AC 7; hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-6; S 15, I 12, W 10, D 17, C 14, 
Ch 16). They have three small children. The couple has been 
very successful as farmers, and the barn is well stocked with 
corn, oats, and beans. Besides theirf ive goats and the pig, they 
9 are the proud owners of two mules. 




Although retired from actively seeking adventure, the couple is 
proud and resolute in their determination to succeed, and are 
determined to defend their home and family with every means 
at their disposal. To this end, there is a secret closet in the 
house that contains Alan's chainmail +1, shield, sword +2 
longbow, 40 arrows, and Marieke's plate mail +1, shield, 
longsword, and spear. 

Also in the closet is a locked strongbox with the remainder of 
the treasure gathered by the pair over several years of 
adventuring. Of course, most of the funds were needed to buy 
the farm. They still have 50 pp, 430 gp, and four gems-1,000 
gp (x2), 800 gp, and 600 gp. 

Alan will be polite but firm in dissuading any questioners. He 
has noticed too many odd things occuring around Orlane to 
take chances by inviting strangers in. However, he will give a 
secret sign that any ranger in the party has a 50% chance of 
noticing. If the ranger in the party chooses to identify himself 
as such, Alan will take the group into his confidence. As a 
relative newcomer to the community, however, his knowledge 
of the cult will be minimal. He will be aware that his neighbors 
to the east (farm 22) mysteriously left their home one night and 
were gone for ten days. Since he did not know the family very 
well before this departure, he has not noticed any significant 
change in their behavior. 

Alan, if asked forfurther information, will mention the strange, 
bedraggled figure, apparently an old man, who seems to live in 
the grove of trees to the west. He will describe the man as a 
hermit who keeps to himself. 


24. ABANDONED FARM: 


This is a fairly well-built house that has had all of its 
windows and doors boarded over securely. The barn 
doors swing freely in any passing breeze. 


This residence shows sign of occupancy as recently as several 
months ago. When they left, whoever lived here took all of their 
possessions with them. The floorboards in a corner of the 
bedroom are torn up, exposing an empty space beneath, and 
even the furniture has been removed. The barn is likewise 
empty. 

The widow Merridie, now living at 20, used to live here. 


25. INN OF THE SLUMBERING SERPENT: 


A large, colorful sign pictures a red dragon with its head 
resting contentedly on its paws. A plume of smoke rises 
from the serpent's nose and its eyes are closed. This inn 
issmallerand olderthan the Golden Grain. Several beds 
of flowers brighten the front, however, and the large 
middle-aged woman sweeping the porch looks cheerful. 
She greets you with a friendly wave. 


This is Belba Cralloon. She and her husband Ollwin run this 
inn. They possess the knack of making a weary traveler feel at 
home. At any pause on the part of a group, she will bustle down 
the porch steps and invite them inside. 

If the party enters, use the additional description of the Inn of 

the Slumbering Serpent following the KEY TO ORLANE. A 

map of the inn will be found in the map section. 


26. MILLHOUSE, WATERWHEEL, AND POND: 


Around this large mill is scattered much in the way of 
children's toys, tools, and farm implements. The most 
imposing part of the structure is the tall millhouse, but it 
is obvious that a family lives in another wing of the 
building. Two children play in the yard, but stop and 
stare at the sight of your group. 


If the group approaches, the youngest will run for the house. 
The other, a lad of ten, will squint at the party as it advances, 
mimicking the stance of a belligerent adult. 

This is obviously the home of the village millerand his family (a 
wife and nine children!). Shortly after the child enters the 
house, the miller, Kenton Miller, and his four adult sons will 
emerge (AC 10; 5,4,4,3,3). The man will call his younger son 
back to him and await the party on the porch. 

The miller is by nature a friendly man, but recent events have 
made him suspicious of even his neighbors. He will feel fairly 
safe with his sons backing him up, and will spend a little time in 
conversation with strangers. He will only discuss things such 
as the weather, or his work. He has no specific knowledge of 
the cult in any event, although he is aware of some strange 
goings-on at the Golden Grain Inn-much activity late at night, 
and many strangers lurking there. 

His treasure is in a locked box, hidden inside of a hollow below 
an old mill wheel on the cellar floor. He keeps the key with him 
at all times. The box contains 52 pp, 164gp, 372 ep, 589 sp, and 
2,056 cp. Also kept there are three gold rings - 100 gp (x3). 

27. GROVE OF STATELY ELMS: 


The narrow trail winds among majestic elms, at times 
disappearing into thick shrubbery. The bushes between 
the trees are dense, rising to a height of eight or ten feet. 
The elms themselves average 75' tall, and they are the 
only trees here. They are widely spaced, allowing much 
sunlight to pour between their ancient boughs. 


The venerable hermit has a ramshackle cottage on the far side 
of this small grove. The bent and graybearded resident is a 
loner, and none of the village people have gotten to know him. 
He is actually a 7th level magic-user named Ramne (M7; AC 8; 
MV6", due to age; hp 16; #AT 1 at-1 orspell; D 1d6-1; S7, I 17, 
W 16, D 9, C 7, Ch 13). He wears a ring of protection +2 and 
bears a gnarled wooden staff with no magical properties. 
Ramne has been living in this one room hut for over a decade, 
and is quite comfortable here. He rarely leaves his grove, as his 
legs are weak and he tires very easily. 

Ramne has a familiar, a clever weasel named Whiskers (AC7, 
hp 3). Whiskers has a powerful sense of smell and can trail the 
troglodytes to their lair in the Rushmoors, even if the trail is 
very old. Normally, Whiskers may be found perched on 
Ramne's shoulder. 

Despite his feeble physical appearance, Ramne knows more 
about the cult than any citizen in Orlane. He has gathered this 
knowledge through patient observation. He despises the cult, 
and will be willing to aid a group that acts toward its 
destruction, but only after he is convinced of the party's 
integrity. This might take several weeks, depending on the 
group's activities. For example, if they defeat a band of 
troglodytes, the time period will be shortened; but if they stay 
at the Golden Grain Inn, it will take longer to convince him. 

In a wizard-locked, lead-lined box under the floor is Ramne's 
store of magical items. If he aids the party, he will certainly 
bring these things along, using them at what he judges to be a 


10 




strategic moment. The box contains an elven cloak, which 
Ramne will wear; a bottle of healing potion, with 2 doses; a 
potion of speed; and a wand of wonder, with 8 charges left. 
Only reluctantly will he use the unpredictable wand indoors or 
underground, since he had a bad experience when it cast a 
lightning bolt in a small cave many years ago. In addition, the 
box holds a pouch that contains 83 gp, 20 sp, and 5 gems (3 x 
1,000 gp; 800 gp; and 750 gp). 

Ramne's spells are: 

First level: light, magic missile, sleep, read magic 
Second level: invisibility, continual light, wizard lock 
Third level: dispel magic, lightning bolt 
Fourth level: minor globe of invulnerability 

Except in unusual circumstances, such as a showdown with 
cult members in the town, Ramne will not extend his aid to the 
group until they are ready to depart from Orlane and seek the 
headquarters of the cult. If the group then asks him for help, he 
will tell them that Whiskers should be able to follow the trail to 
the reptile god's lair. 

Even if asked, however, Ramne will never reveal his class or 
level. He will suggest that the group might be well-advised to 
take him along, explaining that he has had experience in 
fighting evil, and has some little knowledge of objects arcane. 
The force that they are up against, he will state, is obviously 
very powerful and perhaps possesses some evil magic. 

If taken, Ramne will slow the group's progress because of his 
weakened state (MV 6"). He will be able to maintain this pace 
for five out of six turns, if he can lean on a character's arm for 
support when walking. 

If the party refuses to take Ramne, he will offer to send 
Whiskers with them. Ifthey refuse Whiskers, Ramnewill wish 
them well and the DM must use another method to get the 
party to the lair. 

Important Note: The DM must avoid making the player 
characters too dependent on Ramne. Ramne is a 
CHARACTER-he does not know everything the DM knows. 
Further, Ramne should only use spells when they are critically 
needed to save lives. The DM should allow Ramne to give 
advice only when asked (and he may be wrong!). He will refuse 
to lead the party. 

Although the DM may choose to allow Ramne's intervention 
when the characters are about to take an action that will 
destroy their chances for success, such aid should be limited 
to perhaps thrice during the entire adventure. The DM should 
play up the enchanter's age, weakness, and fallibility when 
possible to encourage the player characters to take the lead. 
It's THEIR adventure, not Ramne's. 

KEY TO SPECIFIC AREAS IN ORLANE 

This section describes the Golden Grain Inn (building 6), the 
Inn of the Slumbering Serpent (building 25), and the Temple of 
Merikka (building 21). Maps of these buildings are given at the 
center of the module. 

GOLDEN GRAIN INN 

The Golden Grain is one of the headquarters of cult activity in 
the village. The owner, Bertram Beswill (AC 10; hp 8), was one 
of the earliest converts, and has modified the inn over the last 
year to serve the needs of the cult. He carries a dagger beneath 
his apron at all times. All of the customers present will be cult 
members, usually from outlying farms. 


1. COMMON ROOM: 

This room seems like a pleasant place, but the people are 
subdued, generally sitting alone. Those sitting together are 
not talking and no fires are lit in the fireplaces. Several barrels 
of light and dark beer are tapped behind the bar. 

Cult members! Here, 3-12 (3d4) customers sit quietly about 
the large common room, sipping from mugs. There is an 80% 
chance that the assassin, Derek Desleigh (room 6), will be 
present. Bertram Beswill, the hefty proprietor, will greet 
strangers cheerfully and offera drink of beer, wine, or brandy, 
since his instructions from the cult direct him to behave thus. 
Food and rooms are also available. Beswill will attemptto learn 
why the party is in Orlane, and if his suspicions are aroused, he 
will try to persuade them to stay in his inn for the night. If 
Beswill feels that they are a threat to the cult, he may even offer 
a reduced rate in order to arrange an ambush (see Cult 
Activities). He may also offer free drinks that have been 
drugged by his cook (see room 2). 

Food and drink are available here, but the quality is poor and 
the prices nothing short of outrageous. 

Golden Grain Price List 


breakfast 

1 sp 

beer, 

pint 

1 sp 

breakfast, fancy 

3 sp 

beer, 

pint, dark 

2 sp 

supper 

4 sp 

wine, 

pint, watery white 

2 sp 

supper, fancy 

1 ep 

wine, 

pint, watery red 

2 sp 

soup or stew, bowl 

2 sp 

wine, 

Orlane Special, pint 

i gp 


2. KITCHEN: 


This room is obviously a kitchen. Jars of beans, bread, 
flour and dried meat can be seen stored in several open 
cupboards. A short, rat-faced man is busily wiping off a 
none-too-clean table. 


The chief cook, dishwasher, and so on is Snigrot Dogroot 
(Assassin 3; AC 9; hp 11; #AT 1 at+1; D 1-41; S 1, W8, D 15, C 11, 
Ch 5). He keepsadagger+1 in his boot. Snigrot will be rude and 
short-tempered toward any strangers in his kitchen. There is 
nothing of special value or interest here. 

Snigrot is a master of drugged drinks. These have a delay of 
2-12 turns, after which the victim must make a save vs. Poison. 
If the save is made, the person will feel groggy and know 
something is wrong (-2 on all "to hit" rolls). If the save is failed 
the character is rendered unconsciousfor5-10 (1d6+4) hours. 
If some player characters are captu red, seethe notes on captu red 
characters in the Cult Activities section. 

If the drinks are drugged, Beswill will attempt to disarm party 
suspicions until at least half the party is affected. He will then 
call for the five cult members in room 11 to help take them 
prisoner. Particular attention will be paid to magic-users 
(Beswill knows about sleep spells!). The cult members in the 
common room will not generally press the attack unless led by 
the main NPCs (Beswill, Snigrot, and Derek). 

The party's best response is immediate flight, for the cult 
members will not pursue outside the inn itself. If the characters 
leave quickly enough, they may not even be in great danger, 
for Beswill will not orderthe capture until he is nearly certain of 
its success, at minimal risk to himself. 

3. OUTHOUSE: 

This isasmall, battered-looking shack with asagging door and 
the regulation hole in the seat. 


11 




4. BERTRAM'S DEN: 


Four large and comfortable chairs face a huge fireplace 
in the east wall, while a bare wooden table has four hard 
chairs placed around it. Crates of plates and mugs are 
stacked in the southeast corner. 


If Bertram is in the bedroom, the doorwill be locked; otherwise, 
it stands open. 


5. BERTRAM'S BEDROOM: 


Ahuge, soft bed is the majorfeature ofthis room. Adesk 
strewn with papers and a hard wooden chair sit next to 
the bed. Several plain woolen rugs lie on the floor. A 
large brass-bound wooden chest rests against the north 
wall. 


An examination of the documents will show them to be the very 
poorly kept bookkeeping records of the inn. 

The chest is trapped with a dose of slow gas that will be 
released if the chest is opened without a key. (The key to the 
chest is in a niche carved into the underframe of the bed.) The 
gas will affect everyone in the room, no saving throw. The 
effect lasts eight rounds. The chest contains fresh aprons, a 
longsword, and routine items of clothing. There is a secret 
panel in the bottom of the chest, below which is stored 
Bertram's latest offering to the cult. He intends to deliver it to 
the temple as soon as the sum is rounded off: 136 gp, 496 sp, 
and 889 cp. 

One rug conceals the trapdoor to the secret room in the cellar 
(room 18). 


6. LARGE GUEST ROOM: 


This room contains a bed, a storage chest, a table, and 
four chairs. A rough rug covers the center of the floor. 


Thisisthechamberof Derek Desleigh (Assassin 4; AC5; hp 15; 
#AT 1; D 1-6; S 14, I 12, W 8, D 16, C 14, Ch 7). There is only a 
20% chance he will be here during the inn's normal hours, 
otherwise he will be in the common room (room 1). Derek 
bears a Shortsword and wears leather armor +1. A long scar 
runs down the right side of his face, making his appearance 
bizarre and frightening. Derek is certainly the meanest person 
in Orlane: he considers a murder rushed if less than three 
hours elapse between the first wound and the coup de grace. 
He uses a slim dagger for this work, carrying the blade in a 
sheath at the nape of his neck. 

Derek is the only person to somehow mask the fact that he was 
not charmed in his meeting with the reptile god. He is 
masquerading as a cult member, but his first priority always 
concerns himself. He follows the orders of the innkeeper in 
abducting persons from rooms 7-10, but he has been siphoning 
off many of the funds gathered by the cult. If his cover 
becomes shaky, he will leave town. 

He has a locked iron strongbox under his bed, and he always 
keeps the key on a string around his neck. A poison needle trap 
in the lock could bring an abrupt end to the unwary (and 
unlucky!) thief who tries to pick the lock without removing the 
trap. The chest contains five gems (500 gp x 2; 450 gp, 300 gp, 
and 200 gp), 160 pp, and 1,087 gp. Three bottles are wrapped in 
a lush velvet cloth, each containing a clear liquid. They are a 
poison potion (save at +4 if only a sip is taken), a potion of 
healing, and potion of gaseous form. Each bottle contains one 
dose. 



12 














7. SMALL GUEST ROOM (2 gp per night)-. 

This room has two large beds and a desk. The one-way secret 
door can only be opened from the far side, by releasing a catch 
and pushing it into the room. It is used for kidnapping guests 
(see Cult Activities). 


8. SMALL GUEST ROOM (2 gp per night): 


14. DORMITORY ROOM: 

This was a popular and inexpensive room before Bertram's 
conversion, though now it is used but rarely. Since guests are 
usually assigned to the ambush rooms across the hall, the only 
people who use this room are the cult members staying in the 
village for some reason. It is currently empty. 

15. MAIN CELLAR ROOM: 


This room contains three beds, but is otherwise identical to 
room 7. 


9. CROWDED GUEST ROOM (12 sp per night, per bed): 

This small room has four beds crowded into it, with a plain 
table and four chairs in the center. The secret door is the same 
as in rooms 7 and 8. 


10. POSH GUEST ROOM (4 gp per night): 

This large room has a luxuriously soft bed, a small closet, and a 
nicely constructed table and chairs. Its fireplace is topped with 
an ornate mantle, carved with detailed images of sprites and 
dryads. The secret door is the same as the others. 


11. CULT MEMBERS' ROOM: 


This room looks like common sleeping quarters. There 
are five armed men in this room, who rise when you open 
the door. 


Cult members! The five men (NM; AC 6; hp 5 each; #AT 1; 
D 1-6) stay here, rarely venturing out of this orthe neighboring 
room. They wear studded leather armor and carry shields and 
Shortswords. These cult members aid Derek in abducting inn 
guests and villagers (see Cult Activities). They take their meals 
in room 12 , and don't enter the common room ( 1 ) when 
customers are present. They have donated their worldly goods 
to the cult, and consequently are penniless. They will come out 
of their room to investigate a disturbance on the second floor, 
or if called by Bertram, Derek, or Snigrot. 

12. CULT UTILITY AND DINING ROOM: 

Two tables and eight chairs occupy this otherwise bare room. 
A tray with six dirty plates and mugs on it sits on one of the 
tables. 


13. SMALL GUEST ROOM: 

Iggy Olivero (AC 10; hp 4), a merchant from Hookhill, has been 
a long-time resident of this room. When traveling through 
Orlane several months earlier, he was foolish enough to take a 
room at the Golden Grain Inn, from which he was abducted 
and charmed. A ransom demand was sent to Hookhill, claiming 
that Iggy was in the hands of Dim Forest bandits. The money 
was long since paid, the proceeds going to the coffers of the 
reptile god of course, and the merchant will be returned to 
Hookhill as soon as enough cult members can be spared to 
give him a safe escort through the forest. Once home, the 
merchant will begin to pave the way for a cult chapter in that 
fair city. All of his belongings have been confiscated, so he 
lives here with merely the robe he wears. If discovered by 
adventurers, he will claim to be a prisoner, although his door is 
unlocked. As soon as possible, he will betray or escape his 
"rescuers." 


The stairway from the kitchen ends in this dark and musty 
room with no windows. Many tables and chairs, some broken, 
are stacked against the south wall. Cobwebs cover much of the 
ceiling, filling in the spaces between the rafters. Two unlocked 
wooden doors flank the stairway, and the walls have many 
torch sockets arranged along them at neat intervals. One 
opens the secret door to room 18. 

16. WETGOODS STORAGE: 


A dozen kegs and casks of various sizes are kept here. 
The room has a dirt floor and the air here is damp and 
chilled. 


Two small casks contain red and white wine, while the rest 
contain different types of beer. The outside cellar door is 
locked and barred from the inside. There is nothing else of 
interest here. 

17. DRYGOODS STORAGE: 


This room has a wooden floor, upon which are stacked a 
number of crates and boxes. 


These contain the necessary implements forthe running of the 
inn: extra platters, utensils, cases of flour, grain and dried 
beans. There is nothing further of interest here. 

18. SECRET MEETING ROOM: 

The catch of the secret door is released by pulling down on a 
torch socket in room 15. The room beyond contains a table, 
several benches, and a ladder rising to a trapdoor in the ceiling 
(to Beswill's room, 5). In the southeast corner is a stout 
wooden door with a bar across this side holding it firmly shut. 
The room is otherwise empty. 

19. UNDERGROUND PASSAGES: 


The corridor beyond the southeast door has been hastily 
excavated from the dirt, and is shored at 5' intervals with 
heavy timbers on the walls and ceiling. The ceiling is only 
6' high. The floor is smooth dirt, and there is an odor of 
must and decay here. The air is unusually cold. Many rats 
scurry for cover as the door is opened. 


The rats are harmless and will not attack. 

20. CENTRAL CHAMBER: 


The corridor gradually descends away from the inn. At 
first, there is only 6' of headroom, but in this room the 
ceiling is 10' off of the floor. 


Coiled around a rotting rafter is a constrictor snake (AC 5; 
MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 16; #AT 2; D 1-4/2-8 + constriction). The 
snake will drop onto a character passing beneath it, surprising 
on a 1-5. If the group has stated that they are examining the 
ceiling, however, the chance forsurprise is normal. Because of 
the chilly temperature, the snake moves at half speed and 
attacks at -2 "to hit." 


13 




21. SECRET TREASURE ROOM: 

This secret door is made of canvas over a wooden frame, 
painted to blend into the earth of the chamber walls. It is not 
locked, since its construction is too frail to prevent a determined 
person from entering in any event. 

The room beyond has a low (5') ceiling. The dingy chamber 
has three chests in it that are used to store the donations to the 
cult when they fill the chest in Bertram's bedroom. Since the 
entire hoard was moved to the temple and then to the naga's 
lair less than a month ago, all three chests are open and empty. 

22. LARGE DIRT CHAMBER: 


This room appears empty, and is noteworthy only forthe 
fact that the timbers at the far end have collapsed, 
leaving a pile of loose earth against the wall. 


If the characters disturb the dirt they will awaken the mudviper 
there (giant poisonous snake, AC 5; MV 15"; HD 4+2; hp 19; 
#AT 1; D 1 -3 + poison). Because of the chilly temperature in the 
chamber, the snake's movement and number of attacks are cut 
in half. It also strikes at -2 "to hit." 

23. GHOULISH VAULT: 

Herein lies the true horror of this small network of tunnels, and 
the reason for the bar across the outer door. Three ghouls 
(AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 8 each; #AT 3; D1-3/1 -3/1 -6 + 
paralyzation) occupy this bone-littered room, surviving on rats 
and the occasional unfortunate captive or animal that is turned 
loose in the labyrinth. 

24. STATUE OF THE NAGA: 

The human face of this statue is the first thing seen by 
characters entering the chamber. This extremely authentic 
carving has been created out of several tusks of ivory, skillfully 
blended by a master craftsman and raised on a stone dais. It is 
worth 5,000 gp, but is equivalent in weight to 8,000 gp, so 
moving it will be very difficult. The statue may be broken into 
smaller parts to be moved, but each break will detract 1,000 gp 
from its total value. There is a 15% cumulative chance that each 
break will cause the statue to shatter into worthless scraps 
(previously separated pieces are worth 1,000 gp each). 

25. EMPTY CHAMBER: 

There is nothing in this area. 


INN OF THE SLUMBERING SERPENT 

Belba and Ollwin Cralloon's establishment is not fancy, but 
offers a homey atmosphere that most travelers find more 
pleasant than the cheerless Golden Grain Inn. In addition, 
prices are reasonable and the quality of food and drink is good. 

1. COMMON ROOM: 

If it is daytime, the shutters will be flung wide and sunlight 
streams into the room from a number of large windows. At 
night, three fireplaces give the room a cheerful atmosphere. 
During business hours, 2-8 customers will be here, enjoying a 
drink or five at the large table in the center of the room. (There 
is a 25% chance that one of the customers will be a spy forthe 
cult from one of the outlying farms, however.) 

Conversations here are cheerful, and occasionally rowdy or 
ribald, but Belba will not tolerate outright vulgarity. If wine is 
ordered by a newcomer, Ollwin will break out his homemade 
special and the first glass will be on the house. It is of 
exceptional quality, and there is an 80% chance that each 
character will find it to be the best he or she has tasted. 

Ollwin is the only resident of Orlane who knows much about 
Ramne, since the old hermit occasionally comes to the inn to 
purchase supplies. The innkeeper knows that Ramne is 
something more than he seems, and senses that the oldtimer is 
of good alignment. If a party expresses a desire to get to the 
bottom of the town's mystery, Ollwin will suggest that they see 
Ramne. 


Slumbering Serpent Price List 


breakfast, fancy 

2 

sp 

beer, 

pint 

5 

cp 

supper 

2 

sp 

beer, 

dark, pint 

1 

sp 

supper, fancy 

8 

sp 

malt, 

pint 

2 

sp 

dinner, the works 

1 

gp 

wine, 

white, pint 

2 

sp 

grapes, bunch 

2 

cp 

wine, 

red, pint 

2 

sp 

soup, bowl 

5 

cp 

wine, 

Orlane Special, pint 

1 

gp 




brandy, Keoish, gill 

1 

ep 


2. KITCHEN: 

The kitchen is just to the right as one enters from the common 
room. It is a neat, well-ordered cooking area, and Belba rules 
here with an iron mitten. Anyone venturing here is likely to be 
put to work washing dishes, peeling potatoes, or the like. 
Three ovens heat the room well, and the Cralloons usually eat 
at the small table in the center. 


3. PARLOR: 

Beyond the kitchen is a parlor or sitting room with several 
comfortable chairs, a large fireplace, a solid wooden table, and 
several shelves holding many varieties of potted plants. 

4. BEDROOM: 

The Cralloon's bedroom has a bed with a soft feather mattress, 
a desk, and several bookshelves supporting the business 
records of the inn. A large, walk-in closet is in the southeast 
corner, and here are all of the couple's clothes. A board in the 
floor of the closet is loose; beneath it are leather sacks holding 
39 pp, 496 gp, 110 ep, 670 sp, and 896 cp. 



14 


5. OUTHOUSE: 

The structure is simple, but clean. 




6. WINERY: 

This is Ollwin's pride and joy. Fermenting here are some of the 
finest grapes grown for many leagues, slowly turning into both 
red and white wines of excellent quality. The outer room is a 
small office with a desk and many records of different batches 
of wines, ranging back for nearly 40 years. The large inner 
room has huge vats of grapes in various stages of fermentation; 
two large clay jars, stoppered, at the west end; and two dozen 
casks of wine stacked against the north wall. In the center of 
the room is a huge bin full of fresh grapes. 

7. LAVISH GUEST ROOM (4 gp per night): 

This room has a luxurious featherbed, a closet, desk, table with 
chairs, and an empty trunk with a key in the lock. As with all of 
the guestrooms, this one is empty. (A traveler through Orlane 
is a rare creature these days.) 

8. STORAGE CLOSET: 

In this closet are extra sheets, pillows, and blankets for the 
bedrooms of the inn. 

9. PRIVATE GUEST ROOM (2 gp per night): 

This room has a fluffy featherbed, a desk, and a table with three 
chairs. 

10a. - b. MULTIPLE-GUEST ROOMS (8 sp per bed, per night): 

Each of these rooms contains several beds. They are otherwise 
bare of furnishings. 

11a. -c. DOUBLE GUEST ROOMS (15 sp per bed, per night): 
Each of these rooms contains two beds, a desk, and a chair. 

12. CELLAR: 

This is a large, open room supported by two central columns. 
Between the columns are many crates containing supplies for 
the inn; such as platters, mugs, towels, cheap silverware, a 
saw, an axe, and several spare hinges. More crates along the 
north and west walls contain stores of food: beans, grain, 
flour, potatoes, carrots, dried and smoked meat, and several 
kegs of beer. The outside cellar door is locked and barred 
when not in use. Many long planks have been piled along the 
south wall. A box containing a hammer and hundreds of nails 
sits on top of these boards. There is nothing here of special 
interest. 


THE TEMPLE OF MERIKKA 

Cult members! The temple of Merikka was dedicated to that 
benign goddess when it was constructed from granite blocks 
brought all the way from the Lortmil Mountains. However, the 
naga's possession of the two clerics and their servants has 
made a mockery of the church's original purpose. Although 
weekly services are still held to keep up the pretense, the 
clerics are among the cult's most adamant proponents. They 
play an active role in the deception of unsuspecting victims. 

The granite wall around the temple is 20' high. The gates are 
strong and wooden. Carved into them with precise crafts 
manship is an ornate carving of the chaotic good goddess 
Merikka, portrayed as a beautiful young woman. The temple 
building itself is made of solid granite blocks, and is completely 
windowless. 


1. COURTYARD: 

During the day, the courtyard is open. A broad path leads to 
the doors of the temple. The courtyard itself is empty except 
for a gardener, and its grounds are not well tended. If 
disturbed, the gardener (a temple servant; AC 8; hp 4) will 
rudely direct the characters to the main temple, then ignore 
them. 

After dark: The gates to the temple are closed and barred from 
the inside, and two trained wolves are released to roam the 
courtyard. These will obey any of the five servants who care for 
them. The servants alternate the duty of patrolling, and two of 
them will be with the wolves at all times. 

Wolves: AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 11 each; #AT 1; D 2-5 
Servants: 0 level; AC 8; MV 12"; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-6 

If a fight breaks out, the three servants who are not on patrol 
will hear it and join their comrades. 

2. OUTBUILDINGS: 

The largest outbuilding is a kennel and private quarters forthe 
wolves and servants who patrol the grounds at night. Adven 
turers investigating it will be rudely turned away. The other 
buildings house general supplies, farming tools, and the like. 

3. CENTRAL SANCTUARY: 


This large room has a tile floor decorated with an 
abstract mosaic pattern in orange, tan, brown, and blue. 
Several tapestries decorate the walls, ail depicting scenes 
of lush farmland and crops in various stages of maturity. 
Five huge elm trunks serve as columns in the room, and a 
statue of Merikka, carved from a solid piece of jade, is 
mounted on a low dais at the north end of the room. 


If the adventurers are just visiting, they will be met in this area 
by Misha Devi, a priestess of the temple (see room 9). She will 
caution them that non-members are not allowed beyond this 
area. She will answer questions politely and try to find out what 
the characters are doing in the area without revealing any 
information of importance. She will not let the characters get 
too close to her, and if the party is hostile, she will flee and warn 
the rest of the temple. Alternately, the DM could have the 
characters meet a temple servant, with similar results. 

The statue of Merikka is worth 5,000 gp, but weighs the 
equivalent of 10,000 gp. 

4. MEETING ROOM: 


This is apparently a larger room, divided by a rich blue 
drapery just west of the door. The area that you see is 
empty except for three plain wooden benches. 


Behind the drapery is a softly carpeted room with three 
comfortable chairs placed around a low table. A small shelf to 
the side holds several unopened bottles of Orlanian Special 
wine, and a half dozen glasses. 

5. DINING HALL: 

This is the room where the clerics, monks, and servants all take 
their meals together. The pretense of goodness is maintained 
in a handsome display case, which contains examples of some 
of the finer harvests to come from the Orlane area: a huge 
carrot, a plump ear of corn, a cluster of tall wheatstalks, and a 
bottle of the local wine. 


15 




6. KITCHEN: 

Three medium-sized ovens occupy the south wall, while 
cupboards take up most of the storage space. A small table is 
in thecenterofthe room. The cupboards contain grains, flour, 
beans, carrots, and dried meat; as well as pots, pans, platters, 
cups, and utensils enough to serve large and elaborate meals. 

7a. - e. MEDITATION CELLS: 

These were formerly used as places for clerics to pray to the 
gentle Merikka, but that use is long forgotten. Now each 
contains a only a simple reed prayer mat. 

a. This cell is empty except for the reed prayer mat. 

b. -d. Each of these cells is occupied by a single evil monk 

(Monk4; AC7; MV 18"; hp 12each;#AT5/4 rounds; D 1-6). 

e. The prayer mat in this cell covers a trapdoor to the lower 
level (area 19). 

If the west door to the cell area is opened, all three monks will 
be ready for combat (no surprise), but they will not fight unless 
one of the cell doors is opened. When this occurs, the one who 
has been disturbed will fight in his room, while the other two 
will spring into the hallway to the aid of their fellow. All three 
will fight with bare hands. They have no treasure-their cells 
are bare except for the reed mats on the floors. 

8. MISHA DEVI'S OUTER CHAMBER: 

This room is bare except for three wooden benches. The east 
door (locked) leads to the quarters of Misha Devi (room 9). 

9. MISHA DEVI'S QUARTERS: 

Misha Devi will be found here during the evening, and 50% of 
the time during the day. If not here, she will be tending to 
business in another room on the ground floor of the temple. 

A small bed, a trunk, and a desk are the only items in the room. 
The trunk is not locked and contains only a few clothes and, 
perhaps, herchainmail armor, shield, and mace. Underthe bed 
is a trapdoor leading to the lower level of the temple (area 19). 

Misha is a slender and attractive young woman who has been a 
cult member for nearly a year (C3; AC 9; hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
S 12, I 12, W 16, D9, C 10, Ch 15). She wears a ring of protection 
+1, and a snakeshead amulet around her neck that is made out 
of gold and has two 200 gp rubies foreyes. The amulet is worth 
1,000 gp intact. Misha has a suit of chain mail and a shield in 
hertrunkthat she will don if given warning of an attack (AC 3). 
She wields a mace. Originally dedicated to Merikka, Misha 
now seeks to undo her former service in the advancement of 
the cause of the reptile god. 

Her spells are: 

First level: detect good; darkness (light reversed); detect 
magic; cure light wounds 
Second level: augury; silence; hold person 

10. HALL OF STATUES: 


This hall has a gleaming white tile floor and a series of 
alcoves along the east wall. Each alcove is lined with 
black velvet to highlight the beautiful golden items there. 


All of these statues represent plants that Merikka's benign 
blessing helps to nurture. Each contains an amount of gold 
equal to 500 gp, but the workmanship of the statues makes 
them worth 5,000 gp each. From north to south, the niches 
contain replicas of a stalk of wheat, a potato, a cluster of oats, a 
cornstalk, a large carrot, three turnips, a bunch of grapes, a 
cluster of barley, and a pile of beans-intricately molded 
statues of pure gold. 

The fact that the reptile god's minions have let the exquisite 
items remain in their traditional spots should suggest that it is 
best not to tamper with them. This is true, since Merikka's 
curse will immediately befall anyone who touches one of them. 

The effect of this curse is similar to that of the reverse of the 
third level clerical spell remove curse, but is more difficult to 
remove. Curses from touching more than one item are 
cumulative, but only the individuals who actually handle the 
statues are cursed. Thus, if a character disturbs three of the 
objects, three curses would be received. (If more than one 
curse indicates that an ability score is lowered to 3, it will be a 
different ability each time.) A saving throw vs. Spells is allowed 
for each curse, with those saving still suffering a -2 penalty on 
all dice rolls for three days. Failure means the curse will be 
permanent until a cleric of at least 12th level casts a remove 
curse and an atonement on the culprit. 

11. GUARDROOM OF THE UNDEAD: 


This bare room contains only some wooden benches 
and 8 skeletons standing against the walls between 
them. 


These undead (AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
SD half damage from edged weapons) will remain motionless 
until a living creature enters the room. If that creature makes 
the secret sign of the cult as it comes through the door, the 
skeletons will remain motionless and allow it and anyone with 
it free passage through the room. If no secret sign is made, the 
undead will attack as soon as the first creature has entered the 
room, fighting until they are destroyed or the intruders driven 
off. 

12. LIBRARY: 


This room contains many shelves of books, and two 
small tables. 


Most of the volumes deal with mundane aspects of agriculture 
or religion. The most ornate book in the room is on one of the 
tables, entitled: A MOST WORSHIPFUL GUIDE TO BENIGN 
MERIKKA. The huge and richly embossed volume will not fit 
on any of the shelves. It contains many colorful paintings and 
was formerly very valuable, but all of the illustrations have 
been crudely defaced. Some of the pages have rusty brown 
spots on them. 

13. SMALL MEETING ROOM: 


This chamber contains a small table and two comfortable 
chairs, with an unopened wine bottle and two clean 
glasses on a shelf in the corner. 


As soon as a party enters room 13 or 14, the goblins in room 15 
will spy upon them through slits in the secret doors. All of the 
secret doors are one-way only, from 15 into 13 or 14. When the 
entire party has entered room 14, the nine goblins will attack 
(AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1-1; hp3each;#AT1; D 1-6). They will attack 
in groups of three, one trio through each secret door. 


16 




14. TORTURE CHAMBER: 


A rack and a table with heavy straps attached to it occupy 
the center of the room, and an iron maiden stands in the 
corner. Several empty pine boxes, about 6' x 2' x 3', are 
stacked against the west wall. 


What was formerly a storage room for the ample supplies of 
grain and vegetables that the faithful provided fortheirclerics 1 
disposal has now been outrageously defiled. It is here that 
Derek Desleigh does much of his dirty work. Misha and 
Abramo also use the devices as a means of coaxing information 
from reluctant citizens before they have been converted. 

15. GOBLINS' QUARTERS: 


This room is barren, except for nine straw mats and a 
low, crudely-built table. 


The DM may want to change this strategy if the party is very 
low level or the players are new to the game. Alternately, 
Abramo can be given a sanctuary spell or a few henchmen if 
the party is very strong. The DM may wish to playtest key 
encounters like this one against the party characters before 
actually running it for the players; this can give a good feel for 
game balance. 

17. ABRAMO'S CHAMBER: 


This room is decorated in a bizarre fashion. There is a 
dirty straw pallet on the floor, yet two soft and expensive 
armchairs rest at a low table. A beautiful robe hangs on 
the wall above a battered, locked chest, while the floor is 
strewn with muddy rags. An exquisitely crafted wooden 
desk has been placed near the northeast corner of the 
room. At various points around the walls, small iron 
hooks for hanging tapestries have been set into the 
stone. 


The nine goblins who live here were captured by the cult's 
members in the Dim Forest and dragged to the dungeon of the 
reptile god. There, they were charmed and ordered to serve as 
temple guards, out of sight of the citizens of Orlane (see room 
13). 

16. ANTECHAMBER: 

The door to this area is unlocked. When it is opened, several 
small bells attached to it will chime softly. 


The walls of this chamber are scratched, stained, and 
covered with strange markings. Loose chips of stone lie 
scattered on the floor. Aside from the southeast exit, the 
room appears empty. 


This is the antechamber to the quarters of Abramo, originally a 
cleric of the gentle Merikka. His charming by the naga and 
resultant alignment change has seriously unbalanced his 
mind. He has scrawled meaningless gibberish on the walls of 
this room with soot and colored pigments. 

Abramo will always be around the double corner at position b, 
watching the party. He will flee if the party appears too strong, 
but he will otherwise attack as suggested later. 

Abramo is a 7th level cleric (C7; AC 1; MV 12"; hp 28; #AT 1; 
D 1-6; S 13, I 10, W 17, D 15, C 12, Ch 9). He always wears his 
chainmail +2 (even in bed!), and his shield and mace will be 
handy. His spells are: 

First level: curse (reversed bless); command; cure light wounds; 
detect good; cause fear (reversed remove fear) 

Second level: speak with animals; spiritual hammer; snake 
charm; detect charm; silence 
Third level: animate dead; cause blindness; prayer 
Fourth level: undetectable lie 

A good strategy for Abramo is the following sequence of 
actions: 

Prayer self, with party in area of spell effect. 

Cast silence on a coin and toss it into the party as they round 
the corner (thus negating party spellcasters). 

Charge the lead characters and melee, keeping the party 
jammed into the confined (silenced) space. 

If things go badly, he can run into his room and bar the door. 


There is nothing of value in this room. The rags are barely 
recognizable as tapestries. At onetime, these showed pastoral 
harvest scenes. The desktop is covered with insane scribblings 
in the lawful evil alignment tongue: "Snake mother..." and "A 
crocodile has many teeth" are examples of Abramo's scrawl- 
ings. The chest contains only ripped clothing of poor quality, 
and worthless fragments of ivory that once made up a statue of 
Merikka. 

The secret doorto room 18 used to be masked with atapestry, 
and now may be detected at +1. It is opened by simply pulling a 
hidden switch on the desk. This door can be barred from the 
other side. If Abramo passes through the door and bars it, he 
will be able to escape through the secret door in room 18 
before the party can break in. 

Abramo carries a ring of keys on his belt at all times, including 
the keys to his chest and the chests in room 18. 

18. SECRET ALTAR ROOM: 


This large room is dirty and unkempt, with shards of rock 
lying around four crude granite statues standing about 
the room in haphazard locations. In the southeast corner 
is a polished jade figure of a snake with a female human 
head that is set apart from the other statues by its 
obviously superior crafting and material. Near it, a small 
cage with iron bars holds the listless figure of a beautiful 
young woman clothed in tattered rags. In addition, two 
brass-bound chests sit next to the east wall. 


This chamber provides final proof of Abramo's corruption. The 
woman, Cirilli Finla (AC 10; hp2), is really no more than a girl. 
She is the daughter of the village storekeeper. Her listlessness 
will vanish with the prospect of rescue. She made the trek to 
the naga's lair with the rest of her family; but some untapped 
reserve of courage and determination prevented her from 
succumbing to the charm. Her youthful appeal struck a chord 
somewhere in Abramo's demented subconscious, and he 
brought her back as his personal prisoner. She has been 
beaten and mistreated overthe last three months, but her spirit 
has not been broken. If Abramo is not yet dead, she will 
attempt to kill him if she gets the chance. 

She has seen the effect of the charm on her family and will not 
wish to return to them. She understands that they would only 
betray her, unless the charm can somehow be broken. Cirilli 
will relate everything that she knows, but under no circum 
stances will she return to the lair of the reptile god. Cirilli 
knows that the chests were emptied recently, so the hoard is 
now quite meager (12 gp, 14 sp, and 29 cp). 


17 





The jade statue is a skillfully carved image of the naga, whom 
Cirilli will name as Explictica Defilus. Shades of violet, brown, 
and green jade have been blended into a masterpiece of evil. 
Light from torches or lamps will cause the colors to swirl and 
shimmer in an almost hypnotic pattern. The statue is worth 
7,500 gp intact, and weighs that much in gp equivalent. It is 
impossible to break into smaller parts while retaining any of its 
value. 

The other statues in the room have been chipped from granite, 
and are as ugly as they are poorly crafted. Abramo created 
them himself, and gleefully explained them to his captive; so 
the lass can identify them as a crocodile, two large lizards, and 
a coiled cobra. The fragments of rock are the remnants of a 
statue that has been shattered. At one time it was a likeness of 
Merikka. 

Behind the statue of the naga is a secret trap doorthat leads to 
room 9 on the ground floor level of the temple. Only Abramo 
knows about it, and he will use it to escape if hard pressed. 


19. HIDDEN HALLWAY: 

This hallway connects rooms 7e and 9. It is entered through 
either of the two hidden trapdoors. The walls, floor, and ceiling 
are of rough stone. 


20. MAZE: 

This small maze has been built in a formerly empty storage 
room. The walls of the maze are studded with iron spikes at 
odd intervals and heights. Here, the cult members have 
captured and charmed a small ogre (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4+1; 
hp 13; #AT 1; D 3-8 (1d6+2), keeping it in a nearly starved state. 
It will not attack a person or group making the sign of the cult, 
but all others are fair game. The ogre waits at the position 
marked with an "X" on the map, but will always hear the door 
open and move to investigate. As with most cult members, it 
has no treasure of its own. 


21. SECRET DOOR: 

The secret door of the maze is opened by pulling on a low spike 
in the proper wall section. It leads to a narrow, dirt-filled 
crawlspace. At the far end is the year-old grave of a courageous 
temple servant who tried to resist the kidnapping by the cult. 
The body is very old, and wrapped in a rotting leather tunic. 
Nothing of value may be found here. 

22. TROGLODYTE TUNNELS: 


This earthen tunnel has no stone shoring or supporting 
timbers. Consequently, much fresh dirt lies on the floor. 


Two sets of earthen stairways descend a total of 80' before the 
passage forks. Here sits a squat, mushroom-shaped lump about 
4' high. 

Thisshrieker(AC7; MV1"; HD 3; hp 15, #AT0) has been placed 
as a watchfungus. The four troglodytes (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2; 
hp 8 each; #AT 1, D 1-6 with stone axes; SA revulsion odor) in 
the room at the north end of the tunnels will certainly hear the 
shrieker's alarm if the party is careless, and move to attack. 

The shaded sections of the tunnel have about T of mud 
collected on the floor. These areas slow walking movement to 
1/2 normal normal speed (applies to troglodytes also). The 
four troglodytes will split up, a pair advancing down each 
tunnel. They will attack any enemies they meet, and if the party 
has all gone down one tunnel, the two troglodytes that they do 
not meet will come around to attack from behind. 

In the eastern corridor are two solid wooden doors set into 
heavy frames that are barred on the outside. They are used 
occasionally for storing prisoners, but are now both empty. 

In the troglodyte's lair at the end of the tunnels is a small chest 
buried in the dirt by the north wall (the excavation will be 
noticed as if it were a secret door). The chest is locked, and the 
key is buried in the loose dirt at the mouth of the chamber. The 
treasure contains 45 gp, 89 ep, 204 sp, 460 cp, and a silver 
brooch of shielding (absorbs 30 points of damage). 


18 









CULT ACTIVITY AS TIME PASSES 


Kidnapping Party Members. If the party decides to stay at the 
Golden Grain Inn, the cult will act immediately to capture 
some of the characters. To set this up, let the characters select 
their rooms (Beswill may try to split them up). As DM, ask 
about theirsleeping arrangements, being sure to mention that 
sleeping in armor is uncomfortable and may attract parasites 
or disease (most characters will probably be AC 10, though a 
generous DM may allow base protection of up to AC 8, 
leather). 

The targeted individuals will be those in the room with the 
smallest number of occupants. The attack will come between 
2:00 and 4:00 in the morning. If only one or two people are in 
the room, Misha Devi, Derek Desleigh, and the five lackeys 
from room 11 will make the attack. If more than two people 
must be dealt with, both clerics and the three troglodytes from 
the ruin of the Foaming Mug Inn will join Derek and his 
cohorts. (Note: Players may have to be separated briefly while 
the kidnapping is enacted, since those staying in other rooms 
will not know what has happened.) 

Misha will cast a silence spell upon a small stone, silently open 
the hall door with Bertram's passkey, then cast in the stone to 
coverthe room in silence. Two lackeys will enter by the door, 
while three come through the secret door ahead of Derek. If 
the larger group is needed, all lackeys will attack through 
Misha's door, while the troglodytes precede Derek and Abramo 
through the secret door. 

Under cover of the silence, which prevents those in its area 
from spell casting, the cult members will attempt to overpower 
and bind the prisoners. (The DM may use the Non-Lethal 
Combat System from the DMG; or just use the normal combat 
system, counting characters reduced to 0 hp or below as 
knocked out instead of killed.) The clerics may continue to 
cast supporting spells from outside the silenced area, if 
desired. If any of the victims manage to wound a troglodyte, it 
will release its revulsion odor. The smell will affect every 
human and demihuman in the room, and has a 25% chance per 
room of alerting characters in either of the two neighboring 
rooms. If the battle starts to go against them, the cult members 
will flee. 

If the kidnapping is successful, the victims will be removed to 
the secret room in the cellar of the inn, where Derek will stay to 
keep an eye on them. All of their valuables (including magic) 
will be confiscated forthe chests in temple room 18, although 
there is a 66% chance that Derek will manage to skim 10-40% of 
the cash off the top. They will be kept in the cellar for 24 hours, 
and on the following night they will be moved to the cells in 
section 22 of the temple. After 3-18 (3d6) days, an expedition 
will be ready to departforthe dungeon, and then-again in the 
middle of the night-the prisoners will be started on the road to 
the reptile god. The expedition will include the fourtroglodytes 
from below the temple, Donavan Allard from the constable's 
office (2), and two of the men from farm 18. Any other 
prisoners taken by the cult during this time will also accompany 
the group, but treasure will only be carried if one of the chests 
in the temple has been filled. If a chest is brought, the prisoners 
will carry it. 

The Naga. Once at the dungeon, the prisoners will be marched 
directly to Explictica Defilus and confronted with the naga's 
gaze (save vs. Paralyzation or be charmed). Newly converted 
members, and those who attempt to disguise the fact that they 
have not been charmed will remain with the naga for about 


three hours. During this time she will talk to them and wrap 
them in her coils. It is 80% (-1% per level of experience) likely 
that those who have not been charmed will react with revulsion 
toward these advances, thus revealing their deception. 
(Example: a 3rd level character would have a 77% chance of 
being discovered.) 

All those who fail to become charmed will be placed in 
dungeon area 23, where they will remain for 2-8 weeks. After 
this time they will be fed to a group of the hungry reptiles that 
roam the underground lair (75%) or killed and animated as 
zombies (25%). 

Those characters that the naga charms will be pumped for 
information. After several days, they will be assigned to serve in 
the cult as given on the table (roll percentile dice for each 
initiate): 


01 - 40 Serve as guards in dungeon area 8 
41 - 60 Serve as lackeys at the Golden Grain Inn 
61 - 80 Serve as guards and servants at the temple 
81 -95 Escort Iggy Olivero(the merchantatthe Golden Grain 
Inn) to Hookhill, and help him start a cult chapter 
there 

96 - 00 Serve as Explictica Defilus' personal bodyguard in 
dungeon area 37 (males); or assist the cleric in 
dungeon area 27 (females) 


Kidnapping NPCs. If the party does not stay at the Golden 
Grain, cult activity will not be directed at them immediately. In 
that case, there is a 10% chance each night of the cult 
attempting to capture a citizen orfamily from the village. When 
an attempt is made, roll 1d6 on the Cult Target table. If an 
attempt is made on a given night, however, the next four nights 
will pass with no activity; and then the 10% checks will begin 
again. These checks are also taken if the player characters 
leave Orlane for a time without destroying the cult there. 


Cult Targets in Orlane 

1 Widow in cottage 20 

2 Tailor in house 11 

3 Elves in cottage 9 

4 Jeweler, wife, and guard in 7 

(betrayed by the spy) 

5 Liveryman and family in 8 

6 Weaver and wife in 5 


The numbers afterthe victim's names referto their location on 
the map of Orlane. 

The attack pattern in these cases will vary only slightly from 
that used at the inn. The clerics will call on their victims 
between 9:00 and 10:00 at night. When they are inside the 
home (or if they are denied admittance, as the widow and elves 
will do), one will cast a silence spell. Derek, his lackeys, and the 
three troglodytes will then charge in and proceed with the 
abduction, taking the prisoners directly to the cells in temple 
area 22. The time schedule wilt be stepped up with local 
residents and they will be started on the road to the dungeon 
the following evening. After being charmed, they will return to 
their positions in the village with all possible haste. Those 
saving vs. the naga's charm will meet the same fate as 
characters; i.e. imprisonment followed by death at the jaws of 
hungry reptiles or enslavement. Unless party members are in a 
position to intervene, these attacks will automatically be 
successful. 


19 



Charmed Player Characters: Characters who meet the gaze of 
the naga and become charmed can be a special problem for 
the DM. The player should be taken aside, the situation 
explained, and the player encouraged to play the situation in 
character-as a loyal follower of the naga! If the player 
cooperates, the situation can become very interesting; if not, 
the DM should disallow actions he deems out of character. If 
the player is uncooperative to the point of trying to aid the 
other players, this is extremely unfair-the DM should disallow 
actions by other characters based on such aid. A charmed 
character may also be run as a NPC by the DM. 

The Captured Party: In the course of the adventure, it is 
possible that an entire party may be captured. While it is 
possible for the DM to declare the adventure over, it is often 
more interesting to keep the plot going. Clevercharacters may 
work out a plan of escape, or an opportunity might present 
itself. Outside rescue cannot be dismissed, as long as Ramne, 
the ranger, and the mayor are still active. The most important 
consideration is that the players assume key leadership roles 
as often as possible. 


M5 L5 K5 J5 15 H5 G5 F5 E5 D5 C5 B5 



120 119 118 117 116 115 


TRAIL TO THE REPTILE GOD'S LAIR 

The trail (GREYHAWK hexes 112/J5; 111/15; 111/H5; 112/H5). 

It is assumed that the players have now determined that the 
cult headquarters are not located in the village. If Ramne goes 
as an advisor, he will not use his spells unless the success of 
the expedition is jeopardized, and he will certainly save his 
minor globe of invulnerability for the confrontation with the 
naga herself. He will counsel that departure be delayed until 
any lost hit points and spells can be restored. 


The route of the cult members (both human and reptilian) from 
Orlane to their dungeon headquarters occupies four days 
travel time. The first day will be spent crossing the plains east 
of Orlane. Few, if any, monsters will be encountered here. The 
second and third days will be spent crossing through the Dim 
Forest. It is very likely that unfriendly beings will attempt to 
molest the group beneath those dark boughs. The fourth day 
will find the party slogging through themire of the Rushmoors. 
It is a virtual certainty that some of the marsh's inhabitants will 
be encountered here. 


Appropriate wandering monster charts are given for each area 
in the corresponding section of the module. 

The DM must remember that it is important that the party get to 
the dungeon. Encounters that are obviously too strong for the 
group (especially if they have been weakened by previous 
encounters) should be reduced or bypassed-for example, the 
party might come across a predator's kill or war party's trail 
instead of the the actual monsters; or they might be able to 
sneak past a monster that is otherwise engaged. On the other 
hand, a very strong party might encounter up to double the 
number of creatures or more. In all cases the DM should match 
the challenge to party strength and to the general flow of the 
adventure. 

Whiskers can follow the trail of the troglodytes automatically, 
although the DM may want to roll some percentage dice to 
make the party apprehensive. If Ramne and Whiskers are not 
accompanying the group, a ranger may attempt to follow the 
trail. Use the table in the Players Handbook to determine 
success, modified as follows: 


A. Add +25% to the roll due to the oft-used state of the trail. 

B. Dice must be rolled for each day spent crossing the plains or 
forest. (The trail in the swamp is obvious.) 

C. If no cult members have used the trail during the adventure, 
assume that seven days have passed since the last one 
traveled it. 

D. Losing the trail means a one day delay. A subsequent 
success means the trail has been found. 


Crossing the Plain. The first day of travel from Orlane will be 
spent crossing the grassy plains east of the village. The farther 
from Orlane the party progresses, the fewer signs of civilization 
will be seen. Most of the farms here have been abandoned or 
are occupied by cult members. No travelers have been met, 
since the trouble in Orlane has put a halt to the caravan traffic. 
At the end of a day of traveling, the farms will be left behind and 
the trees of the Dim Forest will be visible in the distance. The 
trail has been following the track to Hookhill thus far, but the 
party will need to pause for the night. 


A wandering monster check should be made for the first night. 
Roll a d6, with a result of "6" indicating an encounter. If a 
monster happens along, check the Dim Forest wandering 
monster table to see which of the Forest's denizens has 
wandered out onto the plain. 


20 











Through the Dim Forest. Early on the second day of travel, the 
party will enterthis region of permanent twilight. Moss dangles 
from the limbs over the party's heads, and no sunlight pierces 
the thick greenery of the ancient trees. This is a hushed wood; 
the common sounds of squirrels and birds are missing. Several 
hours after entering the forest, the trail to the dungeon parts 
from the track, veering sharply to the right. Because of the lack 
of sunlight there is little underbrush, so the party may walktwo 
or three abreast if they desire. The remainder of this day and all 
the next are spent following a faint trail across the forest floor. 

Wandering monster checks in the Dim Forest should be made 
once each day and twice each night spent therein. If an 
encounter is indicated, roll a d8 to determine what is 
encountered. 

Dim Forest Wandering Monster Table 

1 Goblins: (2-8) AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1-1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-6 

2 Wild boar: AC 7; MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 18; #AT 1; D d10+2 

3 Troglodytes: (1-4) AC 5 MV 12"; HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1; D 1-6; 

SA revulsion odor 

4 Ogre: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 16; #AT 1; D 1 -10 (carries sack 

with 17 gp, 88 sp) 

5 Zombies: (1-6) AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1; D 1-8; always 

attack last in round 

6 Wolves: (1-4) AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 2-5 

7 Black Bear: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3+3; hp 18; #AT 3 D 1 -3/1 -3/1 -6 

+ hug for 2-8 

8 Skeletons: (2-8) AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-6 

Once a group of wandering monsters has been met, it will not 
be encountered again. 

The Muck of the Rushmoors. At the end of the second day of 
travel in the forest, the trail will reach the edge of a broad and 
fetid marsh. Thick rushes, interspersed with patches of scummy 
water, stretch as far as the eye can see (even if someone climbs 
one of the trees at the edge of the forest). Further advance will 
involve wading through one or two feet of water and slimy 
mud. The good news is that the trail is very obvious here, since 
the rushes have been crushed out of the way to open the 
passage. It will take one full day of travel to cross the short 
distance to the mouth of the dungeon, since movement is very 
slow here. 


Because the swamp is teeming with awful things, four 
wandering monster checks should be made during the 
crossing. If two have resulted in encounters, however, disregard 
any remaining checks. Use a d4 to determine the beast or 
beasties encountered. 


Rushmoors Wandering Monster Table 

1 Giant Leeches: (1-4) AC 9; MV 3"; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-4; 

SA blood drain 

2 Stirges: (1-6) AC 8; MV 3718" HD 1+1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-3 

SA blood drain 

3 Troglodytes: (1-4) AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-6 

SA revulsion odor 

4 Giant snapping turtle: (small specimen!) AC 0/5; MV 37/2"; 
HD 4; hp 17; #AT 1; D 2-12 

If the party elects to travel at night, the trip will still take four 
periods of travel broken by three rests. There will actually be a 
greater chance of encounters at night, since most of these 
creatures are nocturnal; so add an extra check each night. 


THE DUNGEON OF THE REPTILE GOD 


The Dungeon (GREYHAWK hex 112/H5). After a wearisome 
trekthrough aseemingly endless sea of rushed, the adventurers 
will see a low barrier in front ofthem. Soon thereafter, they will 
reach this barrier-a circular dike made from mud and wood. 
The dike holds the swampwater back from a small island of dry 
land, barely fifty feet across. If the tired band of adventurers 
elects to spend the night here, they will have no encounters. 
They will have to rest soon, however, or begin to suffer from 
fatigue (-2 from all "to hit" rolls). 

If the players ask, they will find that the water level in the 
swamp is above the entrance to the dungeon. Thus, if the dike 
were destroyed, the labyrinth would slowlyfill with water. If the 
group should attempt this at the present time, however, the 
dungeon's inhabitants would soon emerge to see what was 
causing the leak. The dike would quickly be repaired, and 
party members fleeing through the marsh would soon be 
overtaken by monsters capable of much swifter movement in 
the mucky environment. 

If Ramne is present, he will strongly advise against flooding the 
dungeon before exploring it, mentioning that there may well 
be helpless prisoners somewhere down there. (Special note: If 
Ramne is not present, or is killed, the party should find a scroll 
with a minor globe of invulnerability spell and a dispel magic 
spell (7th level caster ability) before they reach the final 
encounter. They will need these spells to have a chance 
against the naga). 

Entry to the dungeon is easy, since there is a gaping hole in the 
ground at the center of the dry land. If a character looks down 
this, he will see a muddy set of wooden stairs descending into 
the earth. The corridor within is about 10' high and the same 
distance wide. 

General Description of Dungeon Conditions. The lair of the 
reptile god differs somewhat from the average subterranean 
setting in that it has been excavated in an area of soggy dirt, 
not rock. Corridors will be 10' high and 10' wide unless 
otherwise indicated, and at 5' intervals the walls and ceiling will 
be supported by massive, though usually slightly rotten, 
timbers. The wooden doors will be swollen with moisture and 
will generally be stuck closed. 

The dampness is inescapable, as are the smells of rot, mold, 
and swamp gas. The floor is always wet and slippery, but in 
some areas a thick layer of mud must be walked through. 
These places are indicated on the map with shading, and the 
DM must mention that movement is slowed to 1/2 the usual 
rate when the group crosses one of these areas. In some cases, 
which will be mentioned in the key, movement is slowed even 
more drastically. In addition, a slurping sound is produced 
when a party passes through the mud, eliminating any chance 
of surprising a quiet and stationary creature. 

Water trickles everywhere through the tunnels, working its 
way down to the pumproom (29). This trickling should be mentioned 
frequently to distract the players. 

Wandering monsters skulk through the tunnels of the reptile 
god's lair. Different wandering monstertables are given forthe 
first and second levels of the dungeon, so be sure to consult 
the appropriate chart. 


21 



KEY TO DUNGEON LEVEL 1 


Wandering monsters are checked for every third turn. A roll of 
"6" on 1d6 indicates an encounter. 

Wandering Monsters, Level 1 

1 Giant rats: (2-8)AC7; MV 127/6"; HD 1/2; hp2;#AT 1 D1-3 + 

disease 

2 Giant lizard: AC 5; MV 15"; HD 3+1; hp 16; #AT 1; D 1-8 SA 

double damage on a "20" 

3 Poison snake: AC 5; MV 15"; HD 4+2; hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-3 + 

poison; SA surprises on 1-4 

4 Constrictor: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 6+1; hp 23; #AT 2; D 1-4/2-8 

+ constriction 

5 Troglodytes: (1 -4) AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1; D 1 -6 + 

+ revulsion odor 

6 Giant weasel: AC 6; MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 18; #AT 1; D 2-12+ 

blood drain 

1. WOODEN STAIRS: 

The muddy wooden stairs are slippery. Characters who do not 
take special precautions (roping, etc.) must roll their dexterity 
or less on a d20 or slip and tumble to the bottom. Characters 
who fall will knock any characters in front of them down as 
well. The stairway descends for 60' before ending in the 
relatively dry room at the bottom. No damage is taken in the 
fall. 

2. ENTRY ROOM: 

Here, four human guards with spears are on duty (AC 7; MV 9"; 
HD 1; hp4each;#AT 1; D 1-6). If some characters have taken 
the rapid route to the bottom of the stairway, the guards 
automatically have initiative the first round if a fight develops. 
Note that their eyes are accustomed to the dim light from 
above-this chamber is unlit. They have no treasure. 

3. CHAMBER OF THE FROGS: 

The wooden door to this room is swollen from the dampness, 
and opening attempts are at -1 penalty. 


Beyond the door is a room almost totally filled with a 
murky brown pool of water. The smell of swamp gas is 
very strong here. A thick, slime-covered column rises 
from the center of the pool to support the sagging 
timbers of the ceiling. Across the chamber, a small, 
muddy shelf extends into the pool. 


Hiding in the water near the center of the pool are two killer 
frogs (AC 8; MV 67/12"; HD 1+4; hp 8 each; #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/ 
2-5). They will attack anyone stepping through the door. The 
pool is 3' deep throughout, with an additional 1' of mud on the 
bottom. Wading through it is at 1/4 the usual movement rate. 
There is no treasure here. 

The secret door is actually a plug of dirt that fills a 3' diameter 
hole. It may be detected with the usual roll, allowing elves and 
half-elves their bonus, of course. If noticed, the "door" may be 
removed in two turns of diligent digging, revealing a narrow 
tunnel that snakes back into a room. 

4. CULT TREASURE CHAMBER: 


The ceiling of this chamber is 8' above the floor. Three 
large chests resting upon a 5' x 5' wooden platform are 
raised 1' above the muddy floor in the center of the room. 


This is a minor treasure room of the cult. The sides of the 
platform are solid, so it cannot be looked under without lifting 
or destroying it. The platform is hollow and empty beneath. 
The chests are not trapped, but are locked and bound with 
brass, making them virtually impossible to break into by force 
(-10% from a roll to bend bars/lift gate, allowing each player 
one roll.) The first chest contains 12,070 cp; the second, 4,560 
sp and 450 ep; and the third, 87 ornamental stones (azurite, 
lapis lazuli, obsidian) worth an average of 10 gp apiece, and six 
semi-precious stones (onyx, zircon, and jasper), worth 25 gp 
apiece. 

5. CAVE-IN: 

The west wall of the tunnel has collapsed here, burying the 
supporting timbers under tons of mud. The widened cavern 
has a layer of mud at least 3' deep over the entire floor. 
Movement through this chamber is at 1/4 normal speed for 
humans and elves, but only 1/10 normal for dwarves and 
halflings. 

6. BURIAL POOL: 

The door, swollen from dampness, is opened at a penalty of -1. 


The pool here has been the final resting spot for many a 
skeleton, afterthe slimy creatures of the lower level have 
picked it clean. Two mossy columns support a low 
ceiling. The floor is entirely covered with clear water, 
sloping to a depth of 6' in the center. Dozens of skeletons 
are visible, and a strong smell of death and decay is in the 
air. 


There is nothing of value here. 

7. HOME OF THE GREEN SLIME: 

In the center of the muddy section of this corridor a green 
slime (AC 9; MV 0"; HD 2; hp 7; D turnsflesh to slime) awaits the 
unwary foot. If the party is prodding the mud before them, the 
chance for surprise is normal, but if the characters merely walk 
through the mud they will be surprised. Movement through the 
mud is at half normal speed. The doorjust beyond the pool is 
false. 

8. HUMAN CULT MEMBERS' ROOMS: 

These five rooms shelter the sixteen level 0 humans who have 
been assigned to serve as dungeon guards. Four of them were 
already met at the entrance chamber, and the othertwelve will 
be here. Loud noises in this area will bring all of them running 
in 1-4 rounds. These rooms are lit by lamps and torches. Other 
cult members will have light sources when encountered. 

8a. The door is unlocked. In this room, four female cult 
members (AC 7; MV 9"; HD 1-1; hp 3 each; #AT 1; D 1-6) 
are sitting listlessly on wooden bunks. One is sharpening a 
spear, and the others have similar weapons near at hand. 
They will attack strangers on sight. As with all of these cult 
members, they have no personal treasure. 

8b. This door is locked. This empty room belongs to the four 
men on guard duty. Four bunks against the walls and a 
small table are the only items in here. 

8c. This door is locked. The room contains four cult spearmen, 
asleep. (AC 9; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-6) Their 
shields and spears are handy, but they will not stop to put 
on theirarmor (AC 7) in an emergency. If they are attacked 
without being alerted, they will have no action on the first 
round and automatically lose initiative on the second 
round. 


22 




8d. This room is the same as 8c, including four sleeping 
spearmen. 

8e. This room has a long table with benches to either side of it. 
Dirty platters and several stained mugs are strewn around 
the tabletop. At the west end of the room is a small oven, 
vented through an 8" diameter hole in the ceiling. Several 
closed wooden boxes contain more platters, pans, mugs, 
several bottles of very low-grade wine, dried beans, and 
lard. There is nothing of interest or value here. 

9. STORAGE ROOM: 

The doorto this room is locked. Beyond, crates, barrels, cases, 
and racks contain most of the dungeon's supplies. Ten spears, 
four daggers, and a Shortsword are protected from dampness 
by a rack on the wall. The crates contain dried beans, wheat 
flour, cornmeal, potatoes, turnips, oil, lard, and salt. Boxes of 
large spikes, several hammers, a pile of stout timbers, and four 
shovels are the building materials present. Several dozen fresh 
torches are stored in a barrel. 

10. EMPTY POOL: 

This shallow pool of clear, still water was revealed when a 
section of the tunnel wall caved in. Hundreds of small and 
apparently blind fish dart through the water, but there is 
nothing else of interest here. 

11. WINE STORAGE: 

This room is stoutly locked. When the door is tried, a little dirt 
will fall from the ceiling. If the door is forced, a large section of 
dirt will fall from the ceiling onto any characters within 10' of 
the door, doing 1-4 points of damage to each. The room 
contains 15casksand kegs, raised off the dirtflooron wooden 
shelves. Most of these contain the low-grade wine and watery 
beer that is given to low level cult members, but four small 
casks are private stock for the reptile god and her higher 
minions. These are all full. Two contain a strong, dark beer; the 
others contain Velunan Fireamber and Orlane Special wines. 
The casks weigh 250 gp each, and are worth lOOgp (beer) and 
200 gp (wine). 

12a.-12b. EMPTY ROOMS: 

These chambers have unlocked, but stuck doors. Each has a 
pile of mud in a far corner from a slowly eroding wall, but they 
contain nothing of value. 

13. ENTRY HALL: 

This lofty room has a ceiling 15' overthe floor, supported by six 
stout columns of unadorned wood. The pool of mud in the 
center will reduce movement by half, but is otherwise 
unremarkable. 

14. LIEUTENANTS' QUARTERS: 

Herein dwell the reptile god's higher level human followers: 
two assassins, a fighter, and a cleric. These rooms are the most 
comfortable in the dungeon, and three of the four residents will 
be in them. (The fourth, a cleric, is tending to the altar of evil on 
the second level. More about him later...). 

The outer door is heavily barred (-2 on opening rolls). If it is 
smashed in on the first attempt, the assassins will be in room 
14a and the fighter will be in room 14c. If the first attempt to 
break the door is unsuccessful, they will have assumed 
defensive positions by the time the group enters. The fighter 
will be in the center of room 14a and the assassins will be 
flanking the door. 


Jarvis Inigar (F3; AC 4; hp 18; #AT 1 at +1; D d8+1; S 17, I 10, 
W 11, D 14, C 16, Ch 8; scale mail armor, shield +1, and 
longsword) 

Blayze Gobbar (Assassin 2; AC; hp6; #AT 1; D 1-6; S 13, I 13, 
W 10, D 14, C 13, Ch 6 leather armor, shield, and Shortsword.) 

Benn Griff (Assassin 2; AC 7; hp7; #AT 1 at +1; D 1d6+1; S 13, 

I 13, W 10, D 14, C 13, Ch 6; leather armor, shield, and 

shortsword +1, +2 vs. scaly creatures) 

14a.This room contains four soft chairs and several small 
tables. A fire is burning in the large fireplace and a large 
stack of wood is next to it. A keg of Orlanean wine (about 
1/4 full) is set in the corner, and two glasses are on one of 
the tables. 

14b. Benn Griff and Blayze Gobbar share this room. It contains 
two beds and mattresses, two chairs, and six wall pegs. 
Two woolen cloaks are in here, but the room is otherwise 
empty. 

14c.This is Jarvis Inigar's room, containing a bed, chair, and 
several pegs on the wall. A woolen cloak hangs from one 
of these, and a thick quilt covers the bed. There is nothing 
else in the room. 

14d.This door is locked, and leads to the cleric's room. A soft 
bed, desk, chair, and wooden chest are the only objects in 
the room. The chest is hidden under the bed. A small, jade 
image of the reptile god (worth 75 gp) is on the desk. The 
chest is locked and protected by a glyph of warding that 
will paralyze a creature opening it for 3-18 turns. The code 
word to open it safely is "EXPLICITICA." Within the chest 
is a clerical robe of black and crimson, a mace, and a scroll 
with two cure light wound spells. 

15. CROCODILE POOL: 

This large room has no doors; the corridors leading to it simply 
end at the water's edge. While very shallow around its 
perimeter, the pool reaches a depth of 4' in the center. The 
muck on the bottom will reduce movement to 1/4 normal 
speed. A stagnant, musty smell is strong here. The water is 
relatively clear and many small fish can be seen. The more 
noteworthy residents of the chamber are resting on a mud 
shelf at the northeast end of the room. Any ripple in the water 
will cause them to enter the pool and swim toward the source 
of the movement. 

3 Crocodiles: AC 5; MV 67/12"; HD 3; hp 13 each; #AT 2; 

D 2-8/1-12 

(Note: The crocodiles will not use their second attack unless 
the victim is out of the water.) They have no treasure, since any 
baubles dropped by previous victims might have been collected 
by the troglodytes that routinely clean the chamber. 

15a. HIDDEN BOAT: 

This small alcove hides a small boat the cult members use to 
cross the crocodile pool. The boat holds up to 10 characters, 
and the crocodiles will not attack it unless disturbed. 

16. ARCHED CHAMBER: 

The doorto this room is unlocked, and has been scorched by 
the cult members with a large black "X." Within, four thick 
columns support the beams of an arched chamber ceiling, 25' 
high. A 20'wide, 20' high corridor leads from the southern side 
of the room. 


23 



As soon as the harpy in room 17 hears creatures enter, the evil 
birdwoman will attempt to work the magic of her song. All 
characters who save vs. Spell will be unaffected by the harpy's 
song for this encounter. All failing the saving throw will be 
charmed by the singing. They will approach the harpy and 
become bogged down in the mud of the connecting corridor. 
This mud is 6' deep and especially thick-any creature trying 
to cross it will become stuck fast about the midpoint. Outside 
aid, such as a ropes or poles, will be necessary to rescue stuck 
creatures. 

Meanwhile, the harpy (AC 7; MV 6715"; HD 3; hp 11; 
#AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-4) will fly down the passage to attack the 
rest of the party. She will attempt to strike with her claws, thus 
charming any who fail a saving throw (remember elves are 90% 
resistant). Charmed characters will immediately stop their 
attacks on the harpy, but she will not take the time to direct 
them to actively aid her. 

If the harpy's victims are not rescued, she will blind them with a 
dagger taken from a previous victim and take them to her den. 
If they are not rescued by comrades, the harpy will torture and 
kill her "guests" at her leisure. If a blinded victim is rescued, a 
heal or regenerate spell will be necessary to restore sight. 


17. DEN OF THE HARPY: 

The southern chamber can barely be seen from the north end 
of the corridor. A thief could reach it, avoiding the mud, by 
making two climb sheer surface rolls and moving laterally 
along the walls. One of the 20' timbers from room 9 could be 
brought and used as a bridge, but would require a strength 
(combined) of 40 to lift, and could only be carried through the 
dungeon at the fully encumbered movement rate (3"). 

This chamber is much like chamber 16, except that the four 
columns in the southern chamber have been connected to 
each other with branch-like perches, 5-10' off the floor. The 
harpy has collected jewelry and medallions as her prizes, and 
these are draped decoratively from her perches. The jewelry 
(necklaces, bracelets, and chains) is worth 250 gp, 100 gp (x2), 
90 gp, 75 gp, and 50 gp (x4). A ruby medallion worth 800 gp and 
a necklace of adaptation, which looks like a 50 gp necklace, 
also hang in here. A hole in the ceiling, unreachable by 
climbing, leads to an exit through a hummock in the marsh. 


18. LAIR OF THE GIANT WEASEL: 

The watery corridor leading to this muddy den may be waded 
through, since it is only 2' deep. Because of the muck on the 
bottom, however, movement is at 1/4 the normal rate. If the 
weasel has not been encountered as a wandering monster, it 
will be found in its lair. At the sound of a group approaching, it 
will enter the corridor and attack. 

This is the lair of the giant weasel (AC 6; MV 15"; 
HD 3+3; hp 14; #AT 1; D 2-12 + blood drain). Here is a torn 
leather pouch, as well as some rusty buckles and a tattered 
tunic. Buried in the mud of the chamber are 300 gp and 800 sp. 
A character who digs through the mud will find 10% of these 
each turn spent searching. 


19. CORRIDOR: 


20. TROGLODYTE'S GUARDROOM: 

This network of chambers gives access to the lower level of the 
dungeon, and as such a permanent guard of troglodytes has 
been assigned here. Each door will be barred on the side 
opposite the adventurers approach. They are difficult to force 
open (-1 penalty). 

20a. The outerguardroom has two troglodytes (AC 5; MV 12"; 
HD 2; hp 10; #AT 1; D 1-6 + revulsion odor) within, each 
carrying a stone battleaxe. Three wooden benches are the 
only items of furniture in the room. The troglodytes will 
release their stench as soon as the door is hit, and one will 
bang on the door leading to 20b and 20c to alert the other 
four troglodytes. The latter will arrive in two rounds, and if 
the battle is still in progress, they will unbar the door and 
join the melee. 

If the first two guards have been killed, or if the four hear 
no sound beyond the door, they will leave the bar across it 
and wait for the party to come through. The four late 
arrivals are also armed with stone axes and have 10 hp 
apiece. 

20b. This is simply a large, empty room. 

20c.This is where the guards sleep. Many fishbones are 
scattered around the floor, and there is a low table in the 
center of the room. Each troglodyte has a small leather 
pouch at its waist with a few coins inside. The total carried 
by all six is 16 gp, 20 ep, 57 sp, and 180 cp. 



KEY TO DUNGEON LEVEL 2 


The walls of the dungeon's lower level are irregular and 
winding. Timbers are still used as supports, but not necessarily 
at the neat 5' intervals of the first level. The trickling noise of 
water is more pronounced, and the smells are, if anythinq, 
worse. 


This watery hall is similar in depth and effect on movement to 
the route to the weasel's lair. It leads to a dead end. 


24 


Wandering monsters are checked forevery third turn. A roll of 
"6" on 1d6 indicates an encounter. 



Wandering Monsters, Level 2 

1 Large spiders: (1 -4) AC  MV 6"; HD 1+1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1 

+ poison (save at +2) 

2 Troglodytes: (3-6) AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-6 

SA revulsion odor 

3 Giant rats: (3-12) AC 7; MV 127/6"; HD 1/2; hp2;#AT1 D 1 -3 

+ cause disease 

4 Zombies: (1 -6) AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1 -8 (always 

attack last in melee round) 

5 Ghouls: (1-4) AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp7; #AT3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6 + 

paralysis (except elves) 

6 Carrion Crawler: AC 3/7; MV 12"; HD 3+1; hp 16; #AT 8; 

D paralysis 

21. MUD CAVERN: 


Two large columns support the roof in this large room, 
and the floor is coated with mud. 


The mud slows movement by half. The stepping stones allow 
the party to cross the room at normal speed in single file. There 
is nothing else of interest here. 

22. HUGE SPIDER'S LAIR: 

This appears at first glance to be nothing more than an empty, 
dirt-walled room. The adventurer who steps in will quickly 
learn otherwise as he is instantly leaped upon by a huge spider 
(AC 6; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 11; #AT 1; D 1-6+poison, save at+1). 
The spider will surprise on a 1-5 on 1d6. There is nothing of 
value here. 

23. SECOND TREASURE ROOM: 

From the entrance, this large room appears to be filled with a 
pool of murky brown water. Actually, hidden around a bend in 
the wall is a shelf of dirt and the cult's second treasure stash. A 
secret door, made of wood but plastered with mud to match the 
wall, can be opened by prying at the edge with a sharp object 
such as a sword or a dagger. Within, a small boat may be found. 
It can carry two man-sized characters, oronecharacterand an 
equivalent amount of treasure (about 2500 gp weight). 

On the hidden shelf around the bend is a raised wooden 
platform (as in room 4) with two medium-sized chests on it. 
The chests are locked. One contains a poison needle trap in 
the latch that will be released by any unsuccessful attempt to 
pick the lock unless it is successfully removed first. The poison 
on the needle has grown stale with time, however, so victims 
will save at +3. The trapped chest contains 300 pp, 600 gp, and 
1000 sp. The other holds 600 ep, a 1000 gp jeweled bracelet, 
and 20 small gems worth 25 gp apiece. 


24. CHAMBER OF THE DEAD: 

The door to this room is swollen with moisture (-1 to open). 
There is a thick column in the center of the room and the smell 
of death permeates the air. Behind the pillar stands a coffer 
corpse (AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-6; SD can only be 
damaged by magic weapons). The creature will step into view 
as the characters enter the room. It resembles a zombie, but is 
treated as a wraith on the cleric vs. undead table. It will 
advance on the party, claw-like hands outstretched. 

Normal weapons will seem to do damage to the ghastly 
monster, and if it takes more than 6 hp damage in a single 
round it will fall to the ground. However, it will rise to its feet on 
the following round, and all characters seeing it must save vs. 
Spells or flee in panic for 2-8 rounds (2d4). When the coffer 


corpse scores a hit, this indicates that it has locked its hands 
around the victim's throat. Each following round, it will inflict 
1-6 points of damage to its victim until one or the other is dead. 
There is no treasure in this room. The door to the north is 
locked and must be picked or forced. 

25. CELLS OF THE DOOMED: 

The door leading to the five cells is locked. A party entering 
here will find three cells unoccupied. The other two contain 
prisoners who have succeeded in saving vs. the naga's charm. 
They have been penned up here waiting for whatever 
unthinkable fate is in store for them. 

The first cell contains the son and daughter of Orlane's 
carpenter. The second holds a prosperous merchant from 
Hookhill, taken with his ill-fated caravan in the Dim Forest, and 
a poor wife from one of the farms east of Orlane who saw her 
husband charmed into a life devoted to the reptile god. In 
addition, any prisoners taken by the cult during the course of 
the adventure who have resisted the naga's charm will also be 
found here. 

The prisoners will be extremely grateful to be rescued and will 
tell all they know of the naga's chamber (room 37). They will 
not fight, however, and none of them has seen the secret 
passage between rooms 27 and 37. 

26. ZOMBIE FACTORY: 

This room is bare, except forfive wooden benches about 3' off 
the floor. Here, Garath Primo, the naga's evil cleric, performs 
his sinister spells, restoring "life" to the bodies of dead 
humans. There are neither corpses nor zombies in the room 
now. 

27. ALTAR OF EVIL: 

The door to this room is unlocked. Garath Primo, the cleric, is 
aware of the defeat of his coffer corpse and is expecting 
visitors. 


This is a long room whose walls are covered by wooden 
panels. At the far end is a raised wooden dais with an 
altar supporting a statue of the reptile god - a snake with 
a human head. Next to the altar is a man dressed in 
clerical robes who seems to be expecting you. The 
shadowy human form of what might be his assistant can 
be seen skulking behind the statue of the reptile god. 


This is the room where Garath Primo (C5; AC 4; MV 9"; hp 21; 
#AT 1 orspell; D 1d4+1; S 13, I 12, W 16, D 10, C 12, Ch 8) pays 
homage to the image of the reptile god. He wears chain mail 
and carries a shield and a wicked hammer with a head like that 
of a snake. He has a ring of keys on his belt which contains the 
keys for all of the doors in 24 and 25, as well as the chests in 
rooms 4 and 23. 

Garath Primo's spells: 

First Level: cure light wounds (x2); detect magic; darkness; 
detect good 

Second Level: chant; hold person; know alignment; resist 
fire; snake charm 
Third Level: animate dead 

After the party enters the room, Garath's sinister assistant will 
reveal itself to be a wight (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; 
#AT 1; D 1-4 + energy drain; SD silver or magical weapons 
needed to hit). Garath will allow the wight to attack first, while 
he casts spells into the melee, using the hold first. 


25 




The naga statue is carved from stone, while the altar is made of 
wood. Rotating the head of the statue in either direction will 
cause a wooden panel in the north wall to drop through the 
floor, revealing a secret passage. The door is indetectable by 
normal searching (including elves) until the statue's head is 
moved. 

28. GIANT CENTIPEDE COLONY: 


This open area is choked with mud. 


The mud slows movement by half. Nine centipedes (AC 9; 
MV 15"; HD 1/4; hp 2; #AT 1; D poison, save at+4) dwell along 
the perimeter of this room. They will rush to attack any 
creature who enters the room from either end. There is no 
treasure here. 

29. PUMPROOM: 


The passageway slants downward - small rivulets of 
water trickle into the darkness. Creaking and splashing 
noises can be heard from further along the passage. 


This is the lowest room in the dungeon. Here the water that 
seeps and trickles through the labyrinth finally collects in a 
muddy pool. Five zombies (AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; 
D 1-8; always strike last in a round) operate a system of 
buckets connected to a stout rope and pulley. As the pulley 
turns, the buckets are dipped into the pool and filled, then 
lifted through a hole in the ceiling. Another pulley is concealed 
in a hummock in the marsh. At the top of the cycle, the buckets 
are tipped by a cleverly placed block of wood, emptying the 
water into the marsh and returning for another load. 

The zombies here are very singleminded of purpose, and will 
not react to persons entering the room. If one of them is 
attacked, however, all will stop working the pulley and defend 
themselves. 

30. MUD TRAP: 


This dank and dingy chamber contains a small chest 
upon a raised wooden platform. 


The chest is bolted firmly to the platform and may not be 
moved. It appears to be locked, but any attempt to pick the lock 
will cause it to open. A successful attempt to find traps by a 
thief, or detect unsafe walls/ceiling by a gnome will reveal the 
trap. 

When the chest, which is empty exceptforthe trap mechanism, 
is opened, all the ceiling supports in the room will be released 
and a mass of mud will fall into the chamber from above. 
Characters in the room must roll their dexterity or less on a 
d20, ortheywill be struck by one of the timbers fori -6 points of 
damage. Those struck must again roll their dexterity or less on 
a d20. If they fail the second roll, they are trapped under the 
beam and will suffocate unless rescued. 

Characters that are not trapped under the timbers, regardless 
of whether they were struck or not, have a 100% chance of 
escaping the room if they do so immediately. Characters trying 
to rescue trapped friends should be told that their chances for 
escape will go down the longer they remain in the chamber. 
Each character can make one attempt at rescue per round by 
rolling a d20. If the resulting number is equal to or less than the 
character's strength (treat 18+ as 19), they have rescued a 
comrade. There is no actual reduction in the chances to 
escape for the first two rounds, but starting with the third 
round, the chances go down 10% per round. 


For example, a character with 15 strength sees his friend 
buried under a heavy timber, and attempts a rescue. Without 
giving actual numbers, the DM tells him that his escape 
chances are still good, but will go down the longer he remains 
in the room. The charactercontinues, making a roll of 16 on the 
first round of reaction-his friend is still pinned under the 
timber. The second round he elects to make another attempt 
rolls an 8. The trapped character is freed, but neither can 
actually escape the chamber until the third round. They will 
each have a 90% chance of success, since this is the third 
round afterthetrap was sprung. (The DM may allowthe player 
to roll his own escape dice.) The rescued character rolls a 42% 
and escapes to safety. The rescuer rolls a 97%, and finds a 
permanent tomb in the lair of the reptile god! 


31. EMPTY CAVE: 


The floor of this cave is fairly dry. It is also littered with 
bones, and the area smells faintly of rot. 


This cave is empty. 


32. EMPTY CAVE: 


The walls of this cave drip and glisten with moisture, but 
the area is apparently empty. 


If the party listens carefully they can hear trickling water and 
faint creaking noises (from 29), but will not be able to 
determine the direction the noises are coming from. There is 
nothing of interest here. 


33. TROGLODYTE LAIR: 

A party coming from the south will smell afoul stench from this 
cavern well before they enter it. A party from the east will begin 
to smell it as they pass the northern corridor to 30. 

Both the south and east corridors leading to the cavern are 
guarded by a male troglodyte (AC5; MV 12"; HD 2; hp lOeach; 
#AT 1; D 1 -6) at position "t." As the party approaches, the trogs 
will retreat to the southern leg of the lair and blend into the 
walls, where they will be joined by 5 females (AC 5; MV 12"; 
HD 1+1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-6). They will viciously defend 
their eggs and the viper eggs in 34 and 35. 

All 7 adult troglodytes will be camouflaged, surprising the 
party on a 1-4. To start the attack, one of the males will hurl a 
frail wicker cage at the party (roll to hit AC 10). If a hit is scored, 
the cage breaks against a member of the party, releasing a 
thoroughly enraged mudviper (AC 5; MV 15"; HD 4+2; #AT 1; 
D 1 -3 + poison) which attacks the same round. The troglodytes 
will charge, giving the snake a wide berth until it is dead. This 
attack can be very dangerous to a low level party, as the attacks 
are coming from many directions. The troglodytes will not 
pursue fleeing characters. 

The major treasure store of the troglodytes is in a few leather 
sacks buried in the loose dirt at the northwest corner of this 
area. The excavation may be detected as if a secret door. The 
sacks contain 47 pp, 273 gp, 490 sp and 4 gems worth 350 gp, 
200 gp, 110 gp, and 80 gp. 


34. TROGLODYTE HATCHERY: 

This chamber contains nearly 1,000 troglodyte eggs, with a 
few of them beginning to crack open. None of the little 
monsters has totally emerged from its shell yet, but obviously 
they will be swarming forth in a short time. 


26 




35. MUDVIPER HATCHERY: 


This room contains several thousand poisonous snake 
eggs, and quite a few of these have broken to reveal their 
squiggly contents. 


The little snakes are easy to kill, but every bit as venomous as 
their grown relatives. Careless characters may undergo normal 
mudviper attacks (poison only) at the DM's discretion. Note 
that both troglodyte and mudviper eggs and hatchlings will die 
if the dungeon is flooded. 

36. BONESNAPPER'S LAIR: 


This small chamber holds a savage-looking reptile that 
strongly resembles a miniature tyrannosaurus rex. It is 
chained to the north wall of the cave and looks as if it can 
not come closer than 5' to the south wall. Several 
disturbingly human bones are scattered about, and four 
jaw bones have been driven into the dirt walls of the 
chamber. 


This is a bonesnapper (AC 4; MV 6''; HD 4; hp 20; #AT 2; 
D 1-8/1-4). Its jaws can deliver a vicious bite. The creature's 
second attack comes from its tail, which can lash around to 
strike a creature in front of the reptile. The chain does prevent 
it from approaching closer than 5' from the south wall. 

Its main purpose is to snarl, growl, bellow, and otherwise 
create noise as creatures pass it, thus warning the naga that 
something approaches. It will not hesitate to attack and 
attempt to snack on any creatures foolish enough to step 
within reach of its chain. 

37. THRONE ROOM OF EXPLICTICA DEFILUS: 


This huge cavern is lit by a ghostly green glow emanating 
from the eight columns supporting the vaulted ceiling. A 
rather large flatbottomed boat is set at the shore of the 
pool before you, and the water seems to occupy most of 
the cavern. 


The boat can carry ten persons, and has a long pole inside 
which can be used to propel it at a movement rate of 3". 
Ramne, realizing that the end of the quest is near, will cast his 
globe of invulnerability. He will caution his comrades to stay 
close to him (but will nottell them why). He will tell them about 
the naga's charm ability and what he can do to counter it 
(dispel), and ask the party to tell him when to cast it- as he will 
be avoiding the naga's gaze as long as possible. 

Explictica Defilus arrogantly awaits the party in her alcove. 
Here, the spirit naga who has proclaimed herself ''reptile god" 
is coiled atop a collection of her favorite treasures, as well as 
the skulls of her most hated enemies. In addition to the 
permanent charm cast on any creature meeting her evil gaze, 
she can use the following and magic-user and clerical spells: 

Magic User Spells 

First Level: detect magic; sleep; shield; ventriloquism 
Second Level: ESP; web 
Third Level: fireball 

Clerical Spells 

First Level: detect good; darkness 
Second Level: know alignment 



When the party is nearing shore, Explictica will throw the 
fireball first. As the party is protected by the globe, this is a 
flashy effect only. As this will be unsuccessful, she will cast her 
shield. Realizing her magic is useless, she will await the party 
on shore. If Ramne still has his lightning bolt he will use it now. 
Explictica may use her darkness defensively, while Ramne 
may counter with a light. 


Enraged at the boldness of the party, Explictica (AC 4; MV 12"; 
HD 9; hp 40; #AT 1; D 1-3 + poison) will try to destroy them in 
melee after they debark (which takes a full round). Ramne will 
stay in the boat, avoiding her gaze and waiting to throw his 
dispel magic if too many party members are charmed. 

In addition to her normal attack, Explictica will meet the eyes 
of one party member each round unless the character is 
avoiding her gaze (and taking a -4 "to hit" penalty). The victim 
must make a save vs. Spell or be charmed. The naga is too 
arrogant to give charmed characters any orders during the 
fight (she has plans for them later . . . ). Remember that the 
naga's bite is poisonous and that when Ramne casts the dispel, 
all the potions in the area must save vs. being destroyed. 

One way to eliminate the naga's gaze attack is to cast a light or 
continual light on the naga's eyes. If the naga misses her save, 
she will be blinded, unable to use her gaze and attacking at a -4 
"to hit" penalty. The DM should use this ONLY if Ramne is in 
immediate and extreme personal danger-it is his ace in the 
hole. Give the players every opportunity to come up with this 
one themselves, and don't use it if they don't need it. 


For stronger parties (L2-L3), the DM should adjust the above 
sequence for balance-maybe the lightning bolt or dispel has 
been used, or maybe Explictica will order charmed characters 
to fight. Or perhaps there are a few more crocodiles or 
mudvipers around . . . 


27 
















The precious possessions that Explictica has collected can be 
seen as a pile of yellow and silvery coins, with some bottles and 
leather items partly buried in the pile. A close examination will 
reveal 110 pp, 890 gp, 1302 sp, a 400 gp jeweled bracelet, a ruby 
ring worth 800 gp, a bag of holding (empty, 500 gp capacity), a 
pair of elven boots, a horn of bubbles, a ring of protection +1 , a 
ring of free action, and six potions in separate bottles, one use 
per bottle. The potions are gaseous form, invisibility, 
clairvoyance, philter of love and two healing (these potions will 
have been out of the area of Ramne's dispel). 

Two ivory scroll tubes of brilliant white are also buried in the 
treasure pile. Each is sealed and elaborately carved with leafy 
patterns. These carvings must be arranged in a pre-designed 
pattern to release the catch at the end of the tube, thus 
allowing it to be opened. By rolling his percentage to pick 
locks, a thief may open these. If the tubes are broken, the 
scrolls will explode, doing 1-8 points of damage to anyone 
within 10.' Intact, each scroll tube is worth 400 gp. 

Each tube contains a scroll. The first, for magic-users, has 
three spells written on it (slow, stinking cloud, detect magic at 
L7 caster ability). The other holds three clerical spells (heal, 
cure disease, and dispel magic at L 11 caster ability). 

Ramne will take the ring of free action and a potion as his share 
of magic-he is not interested in wealth. The DM may have 
Ramne take more if more is available per share, or the DM 
wishes to further limit the magic that the player characters 
receive. Remember that characters must often sell magic to 
pay for training-first level characters who survive all the 
adventures in this module will probably become second level. 

If the naga is killed, all creatures who have been charmed by 
her will be freed from the enchantment. They will have vague, 
dreamlike memories of cult activities, but will not remember 
the experience as being real. This includes all humans and 
humanoids, no matter where they are. It should be noted that 
the troglodytes were not charmed to begin with, and will still 
consider humans as mortal enemies. 


PRE-ROLLED CHARACTER LIST 


Name 

Class 

Race 

STR 

INT WIS 

DEX 

CON 

CHA 

HP 

Magnus 

F 

Dwarf 

18(60) 

9 

8 

12 

16 

10 

12 

Kendrick 

F 

Human 

16 

8 

10 

16 

15 

12 

8 

Ballard 

Ranger 

Human 

17 

14 

14 

12 

17 

15 

15 

Maidel* 

F/MU 

Elf 

16 

17 

12 

17 

11 

14 

5 

Brenton 

T 

Human 

14 

14 

10 

17 

15 

10 

6 

Wendelainf 

C 

Human 

12 

12 

17 

15 

15 

12 

7 

Ruskin 

F/J 

Halfling 

16 

8 

10 

18 

12 

14 

5 


'Maidel's Book: Detect Magic, Protection/Evil, Read Magic, 
Sleep 

t Wendelaine can take any three first level spells from the level 
1 list when memorizing at the beginning of the day or 
when recovering spells (DMG p.39). 


THIEVING 

ABILITIES 

PP 

OL F/RT MS 

HIS 

HN 

cw 

Ruskin 

45% 

45% 30% 

35% 

35% 

15% 

70% 

Brenton 

35% 

35% 20% 

20% 

15% 

10% 

85% 


FURTHER ADVENTURES 


If the party succeeds in destroying the cult, Orlane will begin to 
return to normal. Any characters who wish to take up residence 
here will find that things are still pretty lively, however. 

The normalization of life within Orlane will begin with the 
naga's death. Of course, there will be a period of readjustment 
and guilt as the former cult members realize some of the things 
that they have done. Human nature is resilient, however, and 
after a month or so, the little village will have returned to its 
atmosphere of friendliness and optimism. 

If the characters choose to remain in the village, they will be 
accorded the status of honored citizens. Ramne will be able to 
teach lower level magic users enough to advance them a level, 
providing of course that enough experience points have been 
earned. Thieves, clerics, and fighters will have to journey to 
Hochoch for the necessary instruction, but will be welcomed 
upon their return to Orlane. The usual costs for level 
advancement will be charged to all, of course. 

The denizens of the Dim Forest will also note the destruction of 
the cult, forthe reptile god's minions caused a number of those 
humanoids to withdraw deep into the woods and cease their 
depredations against the village. Too many goblins and more 
than a few ogres were captured by the cult, with most of them 
being used as reptile food. Now, however, that obstacle has 
vanished, and the formerly strong militia of Orlane is but a 
memory. 

The rest of the Dim Forest is still mysterious and unexplored, 
so a creative DM may want to use this as an arena for future 
expeditions. The additional scenarios included here could 
serve as an introduction to the network of goblin tribes that 
lurk here. A DM should feel free to add a map or some other 
clue to these settings that can be used as a key for further 
adventures. 


PRE-ROLLED CHARACTER STARTING EQUIPMENT 

Magnus: Scale mail, shield, battle axe, mace, 24 gp 
Kendrick: Scale mail, shield, longsword, longbow, 16 gp 
Ballard: Chain mail, shield, longsword, longbow, 30 gp 
Maidel: Chain mail, shield, longsword, longbow, 10 gp 
Brenton: Leather armor, shortsword, dagger, darts (x4), 12 gp 
Wendelaine: Scale mail, shield, mace, holy water (x4), 14 gp 
Ruskin: Leather armor, shield, shortsword, shortbow, 10 gp 


CREDITS 

Designer: Douglas Niles 

Development: Douglas Niles, Alien Hammack 

Editing: Jon Pickens 

If you have any rules questions, please write to TSR. Ask the 
questions so they can be answered by a "yes," "no," or short 
answer. You must include a self-addressed, stamped enve 
lope. Write to : TSR Hobbies, Inc., PO Box 756, Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147, ATTN: Rules Editor. 


28 




This product is only one of the many popular playing aids for the ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS" 
Fantasy Adventure 


Game produced by TSR Hobbies, Inc. Playing aids currently available tor the AD&D'" game system 
include: 


Players Handbook (everything the AD&D player needs to know) 

Dungeon Masters Guide (the essential reference work for DMs) 

Monster Manual (over 350 monsters, with full explanations and many illustrations) 

DEITIES & DEMIGODS'" Cyclopedia (over a dozen pantheons in AD&D game terms to aid the DM in 
expanding a campaign) 
FIEND FOLIO'" Tome of Creatures (a collection of new and fearsome monsters by British contributors 
and artists) 

AD&D Dungeon Masters Screen (combat tables, saving throws, psionics, and many other valuable 
reference tables for DMs and 
players) 

THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK'" Fantasy World Setting (two full-color continental maps, with complete 
descriptions of history, 
geography, and legends. Approved for use with the AD&D game system) 


Dungeon Module A1 (Slave Pits of the Undercity) 

Dungeon Module A2 (Secret of the Slavers Stockade) 
Dungeon Module A3 (Assault on the Aerie of the Slave Lords) 
Dungeon Module A4 (In the Dungeons of the Slave Lords) 
Dungeon Module Cl (The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan) 
Dungeon Module C2 (The Ghost Tower of Inverness) 
Dungeon Module D1-2 (Descent Into the Depths of the Earth) 
Dungeon Module D3 (Vault of the Drow) 

Dungeon Module G1-2-3 (Against the Giants) 


Dungeon Module II (Dwellers of the Forbidden City) 
Dungeon Module LI (The Secret of Bone Hill) 

Dungeon Module Q1 (Queen of the Demonweb Pits) 
Dungeon Module SI (Tomb of Horrors) 

Dungeon Module S2 (White Plume Mountain) 

Dungeon Module S3 (Expedition to the Barrier Peaks) 
Dungeon Module S4 (The Lost Caverns of Tsojcanth) 
Dungeon Module T1 (The Village of Hommlet) 
Dungeon Module U1 (The Sinister Secret of Saltmarsh) 


Other releases of additional items relating to the AD&D game system are planned for the future. TSR 
Hobbies publishes a complete 
line of games, playing aids, and gaming accessories available from better hobby, game, and department 
stores nationwide. 



ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and ADVANCED D&D are registered trademarks owned by TSR 
Hobbles. Inc. 
The designation "TM" Is used to reler to other trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies. Inc. 


ISBN 0-88038-000-4 
394-52864-6TSR0550 





% 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 




