Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Original Adventures Reincarnated #4: The Lost City"
See other formats
MNS oy 
“g 




fe eoAgy 
OAAPLSL PLD BP 




A FIFTH EDITION CONVERSION & CLASSIC HOMAGE 




® B4: THE LOST CITY 
Conversion by Chris Doyle and Tim Wadzinski 




2 




ler 




T 




1 




Tier 




Side View of Secret Door 




Tier 3 




116-F-9049 




Bae) 1 square ~ 10 feet 




Hole in Floor 
and Ceiling 




| Pit 




Trap Door \ i] e peas 
i Fisbr | NS, | Fountain 




Curtain 




Slide 




Hinged Floor 
: Section 




Rubble 




i} Altar 




—D8D. 




THE LOST CITY 




A FIFTH EDITION CONVERSION & CLASSIC HOMAGE 
B4: THE LOST CITY 




Conversion by Chris Doyle and Tim Wadzinski 




THE LOST CITY 




Full credits for the original edition of The Lost City can be found in its 




respective section of this book, where it is scanned verbatim from a prior printing. 




The credits that follow are for the 5E portion of this work. 




Original Writer 
5E Conversion Design and Writing 
5E Editing and Additional Support 


Additional Writing 




Special Thanks 


5E Edition Playtesters 
Additional Research 
Cover Design 


Cover Art 


Interior Layout 
Interior Art Direction 
Interior Art 




Cartography 
Scans and Restoration 




Publisher 




Tom Moldvay 


Chris Doyle 


Tim Wadzinski 


Joseph Goodman, James Maliszewski, 
Mike Mearls 


Harold Johnson 


Alec Doyle, Lisa Doyle, Devin McCullen 
Scott Fitzgerald Gray 


Lester B. Portly 


Jim Holloway 


Matt Hildebrand 


Joseph Goodman 


Brad McDevitt, Chad Sergesketter, Chris 
Arneson, Cliff Kurowski, Fred Dailey, Jesse 
Mohn, Peter Mullen, Stefan Poag, Tom 
Galambos, William McAusland 


William McAusland 


Steve Crompton 


Joseph Goodman 




This volume is produced under permission from Wizards of the Coast. Dungeons & Dragons is a trademark of Wizards of the Coast. Good- 
man Games and the Goodman Games logos are trademarks of Goodman Games. Contents ©2020 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Box 707, 
Renton, WA 98057-0707, USA. Wizards of the Coast, D&D, their respective logos, and all adventure titles are trademarks of Wizards of the 
Coast LLC in the USA and other countries, and are used with permission. First Printing. Printed in China. 




Visit US ONLINE at: www.GcooDman-GameEs.com 




NRE NE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED 




aa 




ESI SEE SE A IT AIS 0 ETO 




Se OES OS 




¢ THE LOS 




‘ 
T city 




it GL NNR ET AN ER 




ESSE ATL RPTL EAS A RNR TPT IE 




TABLE OF CONTENTS 




CHAPTER ie INTRODUCTION is:asctesccaceva tanec a stoken eaeantocaay sasndas atasiucescasansssenmraaennan nets 4 
CHAPTER 23. Ba: THE LOST Ciry —ORIGINAT; PUBLICATION 2, dessssceesidseesconnisesceesavtte 16 
CHAPTER 3 sD AEKGROUNDD cxrteccccncrne: xt wenusaencon tt 18. au cceca tt te ngvecaicectoP ee yee aeane ectenteaset Ge: 57 
GARTERS SIHE UPPER VRAMID" Soe ticecdanved: acoceeecsoma uae sstatas ha toy Meese Hie. 7 
CHAPTERS. VHE. WOW PR WRAMIDG un seeac a evesee en teens he aiataa sae Uae ee ne Cuan erase 104 
GHAPTER:G. IME: LOST CrivOr CYNIDICEA dd crtec cca ustecue teases redisesenis ta bousesacvusttediees 128 
CEAP TERT. VHE MG ORMIN CAVES a oy coves scoiissayanadecnu nuances caseauseeicae a eauuicasventeaadte 161 
HAPTER Ss LEE POWER CATACOMBS osc cu scancaieccareerees eid tdaee da edt cate deeaue asics: 194 
‘APPENDECAC IN EW: VIAGIC- ITEMS er OPELES 2syiescstessuacsordisstacaedseu an censuennea loser 223 
ZAPPEND IR: Be NEW VION STEIS woz iay recess evans Goa Ciccsstoh see caocae MAveuan fevestes encores diainen eas 227 
PPPEND DAG? CHARACTERS 42a vase en csres ren esec antes ctaramenic as divans aca at aneuen eeane Aa 262 
APPEN DISC 1 IAN DOU Ss Mt rrastesecisarescenicais avauterse ti cieve Git in erucgs icine ead aati 285 
HAD PENI Iolo WANS vo coves gouaoauekes suns Uianuceres (cers eaasie ee Pusu aan aus gush ei see rian Mua acemeeeawonabentne 292 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ° THE Lost City 




CHAPTER ONE 




Author's Introduction 
by Chris Doyle 




playing games. That is the day when I came home from school 
and sitting on the dining room table was the Dungeons & 
Dragons Basic Rules boxed set, obtained from Sears via mail order. 
This was the set graced with purplish-hued Erol Otus cover art of 




| consider February 2, 1981 as the date I started playing role- 




an underground scene depicting a fighter and a magic-user (before 
we called them wizards) in a desperate struggle against a draconic 
creature emerging from a pool. As I type this, I glance upon a viny] 
print of the artwork hanging on my basement wall, which I picked 
up at a Gary Con auction a few years back. I’m lucky enough to have 
tracked down Mr. Otus to have him sign it. How do I remember 
that particular date so clearly? It just so happens to be the day my 
niece was born. 




Back then, I was only a player. And did we play. At recess during 
school, after school, on the weekends, on summer vacation. We had 
raided the Caves of Chaos, found the ruined halls of Quasqueton, 
battled the Slave Lords, and explored the Palace of the Silver Prin- 
cess. It was late 1982, or maybe early 1983, when a good friend of 
mine (also named Chris) offered to DM B4: The Lost City. 1 was a 
huge fan of Egyptian mythology, pyramids, dusty trap-filled tombs, 
giant scorpions, sandy wastes, you name it. So even though we could 
not find any other players, we played anyway, and I ran all four PCs! 




After getting stuck in a sandstorm, we sought shelter in the ruins of 
a city revealed by the storm. Soon, we were trudging down a dusty 
corridor searching for traps. We battled some fire beetles, a flock of 
stirges in a concealed room, and a gang of sprites (in the desert?) with 
a proclivity for pyrotechnics. That encounter should have been a clue 
to things to come, but the fey were soon defeated and we had a few 
crates of fireworks now. 




Then we came to a door. As per standard operating procedures, we 
listened at the door and heard strange idle chatter, but not in any 
recognizable humanoid tongue. (They must be gnolls! None of us 
speak that tongue!) We then searched for traps. Finding none, we 
kicked in the door and encountered five mask-clad humans, armed 
and armored. I grabbed my lucky six-sided die and chucked it for 
initiative. (Yes kids, back in the ‘80s we used a six-sider for initia- 
tive and rolled once for the whole party. And rolled each round of 
combat!) I rolled terribly, and the opposition didn’t, so they acted 
first. The DM rolled 2d6 (why?) and then instead of attacking, the 
humans greeted us with open arms! What? They didn’t attack? D&D 
was all about exploring dungeons, kicking monster butt, and taking 
their loot. It never crossed my mind that we could talk to inhabitants 
of the dungeon. (Keep in mind, I’m 12 years old.) 




So, we talked (and glossed over the fact that they spoke in their own 
language which we could not understand). It was awkward at first, 
like talking to a girl for the first time alone. We traded some fireworks 
for food and water (we were lost in the desert without many supplies, 
after all) and eventually learned they were part of a Brotherhood. They 
asked us to join, so we did, not really knowing what else to do. Besides 
we really needed to rest at this point and there is safety in numbers. 
We met their leader and soon were outfitted with masks of our own. 
We spent most of the rest of the session (a few hours) just talking, 
mostly about an underground city and where to get more food and 
water. I’m not even sure what we discussed to be honest. But it was 
soon time for dinner (and homework!), so we had to end the session. 




Despite my pleas the next few days, we never did finish our adven- 
tures exploring The Lost City. As it turns out, the DM was not overly 
fond of the talking and much preferred chucking dice during com- 
bat. Within a few months, he wasn’t even playing D&D anymore, 
and I’m fairly certain he didn’t serve as DM again. A big part of the 
reason was his discovery of sports, and he was truly a gifted athlete, 
regardless of the sport. We were still good friends, but when we hung 
out it was just to play football or stickball. I had to find others to 
share my enjoyment of role-playing games. And I did just that. 




After tracking down a copy of B4 ata local Toys R Us, I read it cover 
to cover and was fascinated by the factions, the backstory of the lost 
city, and the Cynidicean people clearly in decline. It was the revela- 
tion I needed to understand that D&D was a blank canvas and there 
was the potential to “role” play and not just “roll” play. Soon after 
I was buying modules whenever I could scrounge up the money or 
convince the folks I really needed this book. (It’s a book! I want to 
read! That's a good thing!) And then I became a Dungeon Master so 
I could be in charge of the stories I wanted to tell. Sure, in the begin- 
ning, much of it was still about poking things with a 10-foot pole, 
kicking in doors, and rollicking combats with evil foes. But it was all 
part of the process. As a DM, eventually I grew as an arbiter of the 
rules, and as a “role” player, although I still relied on off-the-shelf 
published adventures. 




By the mid-‘80s the fad of D&D was dying down in my area. But I 
kept playing, bouncing from group to group. The local 4H even had 
a D&D club for a while, including a sleepover D&D camp where 
I became introduced to organized and tournament play. By the late 
‘80s I was designing my own adventures and attending game con- 
ventions. This was when I was introduced to the Role Playing Game 
Association (RPGA) and began to play in regional and national tour- 
naments. At some of these events (especially the Master and Grand- 
master sanctioned events) it was not uncommon to spend an entire 
session role-playing, and never removing your dice from your pouch. 




jee a Rc NNR Sse 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED * THE LOST City 




Se Sao 




SRREPERS 




Goodman Games announced this book at Gen Con 2019. Here you see author Chris Doyle, right, and editor Tim Wadzinski, 
left, holding the original announcement poster at the Goodman Games seminar. 




So, it is with great fondness that I look back on my brief adventures in 
B4: The Lost City. Even though | thought I was exploring the pyramid 
in The Lost City, | was really exploring the many layers of the role- 
playing game genre. And although I never finished the journey to 
Zargon’s lair, or the cavern below the pyramid, B4 was clearly the start 
of my journey as a Dungeon Master, eventually an adventure designer, 
and then a published author. It’s ironic that Tom Moldvay was the 
primary author of the Basic set that started my journey, as he was the 
author of B4: The Lost City. It’s also ironic that the D&D brand has 
outlasted both Toys R Us and (soon to be) Sears! 




And although the world and I lost my dear friend, DM Chris, way too 
early at the age of 23 due to a battle with leukemia, I'll never forget that 
after-school D&D session of B4: The Lost City. Or that perfect over- 
the-shoulder touchdown pass during flag football that sealed a win. 




;]|clCl 000 
Chris began playing role-playing games in the early ‘80s (decades before 
it became mainstream and popular) and began freelance writing for the 
game industry in the early “90s. His first publication was for WEG’ Star 
Wars: The Roleplaying Game, which might be a contributing factor to his 
unhealthy fascination with jawas. He is most fond of writing adventures, 
and has been published by TSR, Wizards of the Coast, and Atlas Games. 
He has been writing for Goodman Games since 2004, starting with the 
original third edition Dungeon Crawl Classics line of adventures. Re- 
cently, he has penned several of the Fifth Edition Fantasy adventures for 
Goodman Games, and is the developerlco-author of OAR #1: Into the 
Borderlands, OAR #2: The Isle of Dread, and OAR #4: The Lost City. 
In his spare time, he is an avid tabletop role-player and board gamer. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED * THE LOST City P 




The Lost City: 




An Overlooked Classic 
by Mike Mearls 




hile 7he Lost City, having never been included in a Basic Set, 
W lacks the iconic stature of Keep on the Borderlands or In Search 


of the Unknown, it is a worthy successor to those classics. It is 
perhaps the most playable adventure out of the box compared to others 
of its era, with its emphasis on history, roleplay, and a clear, campaign- 
long goal. Why does it stand the test of time? Probably because it was 
ahead of its time. 




A Campaign Villain 


The dreaded, god-like Zargon looms as a villain worthy of building a 
campaign around. Prior to this point in TSR’s publishing history, we 
had powerful NPCs and monsters in adventures, but now for the first 
time we have a grand, powerful villain who looms as the final enemy. 




True, you could argue that Lolth serves as D&D’s first boss monster in 
the GDQ series, but Lolth remains a passive, distant threat in that series 
until Queen of the Demonweb Pits. In contrast, Zargon is the catalyst 
behind the adventure, the source of its greatest threats, and the final 
enemy who must be defeated. 




Like any good villain, Zargon is more than a powerful monster at the 
bottom of a dungeon. Yes, the tentacled beast hides there, but its cult- 
ists are the most powerful enemies the characters face in the adventure. 
Dismantling the cult and then solving the riddle of how to destroy the 
beast for good is the stuff of a dozen gaming sessions. 




A Sense of History 




To overcome the threats of Zhe Lost City, the players must come to grips 
with the history of lost Cynidicea. With The Lost City, the concept of the 
elaborate backstory hit the perfect balance between too little to give the 
adventure a distinct flavor and dense lore that remains hidden from play. 




The ziggurat the characters must explore to enter the city is filled with 
clues that smart players can unravel to learn the story of the city’s rise 
and fall. That information is critical to completing the adventure. With- 
out it, the players can never truly unravel the mystery of Cynidicea and 
understand how to defeat Zargon for good. 




Tom Moldvay is perhaps the first designer to build an adventure where 
the backstory is so important. That he pulled this off while also making 
that story relevant and important to the action at the table is a testa- 
ment to his genius. 




Factions 




A good adventure gives the players meaningful choices. The Lost Citys 
factions provide plenty of those, along with the opportunity for the 
DM to set up politics, alliances, and treachery. The three factions of the 
city have clear agendas, obvious incompatibilities, and enough com- 
mon ground that smart players can bring them together. 




Factions are a big part of RPGs, whether tabletop or digital, but can 
you think of an earlier D&¢D adventure that presents them with such 
clarity and places them in a prominent part of the adventure? Success 
in this adventure is impossible without the backing of at least one fac- 
tion, placing a focus on roleplay and planning that is rare in D&D 
adventures in any era. 




If you've played an Elder Scrolls game or an MMO, you can thank 
Tom Moldvay for making factions such a prominent part of a fantasy 
gaming world. 




Strangers in a Strange Land 




Finally, we come to the most compelling part of this adventure, the bi- 
zarre citizens of Cynidicea. Pulled straight from the grandest traditions 
of pulp fantasy, Cynidicea and its strange, drug-addled people are the 
perfect sort of culture for characters to interact with. The Cynidiceans 
are strange but understandable, trapped in a prison of their own crea- 
tion that reflects their cultural slide into decadence. 




As a DM, the Cynidiceans are a fertile field for exciting roleplay. Their 
strange dreams make everyday interaction a puzzle, but there is a logic 
and stable structure beneath the Cynidiceans’ hallucinations. Once 
more, Moldvay’s ability to weave history and legend into the immediate 
action of the adventure looms large. Yes, the Cynicideans seem random 
and strange, but beneath that seeming is a solid, understandable frame- 
work for their strangeness. 




An Overlooked Classic 




Running The Lost City takes a little work. Moldvay had only 28 pages to 
work with, leaving many of the lowest dungeon levels with little detail 
beyond the most basic information. The full depth of the factions and 
the city is left to the DM to develop. 




However, if you are looking to run a classic adventure for the latest gen- 
eration of D&D players, you can’t go wrong with this gem. The initial 
levels of the buried step pyramid allow you to launch your campaign 
with minimal prep. As the players explore, work between sessions to 
flesh out the factions and add details you need to the city below. When 
Darius finally falls to the PCs, they are ready to enter the city and take 
the fight to the cult of Zargon. Luckily, that process should buy you 
weeks of time to prepare for the next phase of your campaign. What are 
you waiting for? The treasures of Lost Cynidicea await! 
—————_ i __—__s 
Mike Mearls manages the D&D creative team at Wizards of the Coast. He 
was the co-lead designer on D&D Sth edition. His work includes Xana- 
thars Guide to Everything and Volo’s Guide to Monsters for D&D, 
and the board games Castle Ravenloft and Betrayal at Baldur's Gate. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED * THE LOST City 




An Appreciation of Tom Moldvay 
and his Work on The Lost City 




by James Maliszewski 




om Moldvay’s death on March 9, 2007 was indeed untimely— 
Te only because he was 58 years old at the time, but also be- 


cause it occurred just as the re-appraisal and re-appreciation of 
early role-playing games and their designers were getting under way. 
As the editor of the second edition of the Dungeons & Dragons Ba- 
sic Set, Moldvay would have undoubtedly received much-deserved 
accolades on the blogs and forums that incubated the Old School 
Renaissance. The 1981 Basic Set, with its glorious Ero] Otus cover 
and clear, straightforward rules presentation, was indeed a “Gateway 
to Adventure” for many. I have no doubt that, had he lived a little 
longer, Tom Moldvay would have come to realize just how much of 
an impact his earlier work had had on a generation of role-players. 




That impact wasn’t limited to the Basic Set. During his time at TSR 
Hobbies, Moldvay wrote or co-wrote several adventure modules for 
both D&D and AD&D, perhaps the most famous of which is mod- 
ule X1: The Isle of Dread, produced in collaboration with David Cook 
(and recently reincarnated through Goodman Games). Because X1 
was included with the boxed 1981 Dungeons & Dragons Expert Set, 
it’s probably the most widely known—and played!—adventure that 
Moldvay ever wrote. 




I like to say that The Isle of Dread is the first part of Tom Moldvay’s 
“pulp fantasy trilogy.” I don’t mean this literally, of course. There is 
no direct connection between the three adventures I include in the 
trilogy— The Isle of Dread, Castle Amber, and The Lost City—but all 
of them draw heavily on themes and subject matter deriving from 
the fantasy tales found in the pages of the pulp magazines from the 
first half of the 20th century. They are all terrific modules and I have 
a fondness for each of them for different reasons, but I have a par- 
ticular fondness for The Lost City, because it’s so often overlooked 
compared to its “big brothers.” 




Part of that might be because 7he Lost City was written to support the 
Basic Rules. I remember well that some gamers of the time turned 
their nose up at the Basic Rules as “kiddie D&D” (compared to 
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, which was “the real thing”). Even 
those who didn’t feel that way often neglected to look at low-level 
adventures. After all, how many level 1-3 modules does a Dungeon 
Master need, especially if he has a long-running campaign? Further- 
more, Mike Carr’s /n Search of the Unknown or Gary Gygax’s The 
Keep on the Borderlands were both well known, thanks to their inclu- 
sion in various editions of the Basic Set, making them part of many 
gamers’ earliest memories of learning to role-play. By comparison, 
The Lost City might seem unexceptional. 




That judgment would, in my opinion, be in error, for reasons I will 
briefly elaborate. 




The Lost Citys connection to pulp fantasy is readily apparent, as it pre- 
sents a decadent subterranean civilization of great antiquity known 
as Cynidicea. This civilization has fallen in thrall to a foul alien be- 
ing known as Zargon, whom many Cynidiceans worship as a god. 
Lost in the desert, the player characters stumble upon the uppermost 
portion of a Cynidicean step pyramid, the bulk of which is now 
buried beneath the sands. As they explore the tiers of the pyramid, 
the characters come into contact with the fringes of the remnant 
Cynidicean society, which is riven with factions and secret societies, 
each of which has its own plots and goals. Success in the module is 
judged at least in part by how adeptly the characters can navigate the 
treacherous waters of Cynidicean society in order to achieve their 
own goals, whatever they may be. 




I found Moldvay’s set-up very compelling. The adventure consists pri- 
marily of a dungeon crawl inside the aforementioned buried step pyr- 
amid. The pyramid itself is a well-presented low-level dungeon (with 
the obligatory wight encounter—nearly every introductory module 
of the era included an encounter with these level-draining undead, 
it seems), but what attracted me to the module was the eponymous 
Lost City and its factions. These are only briefly sketched out in the 
actual text of the module, taking up two pages of its 32. Nevertheless, 
these brief sketches are pregnant with ideas, many of which sustained 
my campaign for weeks and months after the player characters had 
finished exploring the dusty rooms of the pyramid itself. 




What Moldvay did in 7he Lost City is a master class of imagination 
and concision. Not only did he provide us with a fun, varied low-level 
dungeon crawl filled with a good mix of monsters (several of which 
are unique to this module), treasures, traps, mysteries, and, of course, 
empty rooms, but also the outline of how an enterprising Dungeon 
Master might expand on the material he provided. Re-reading the 
module in preparation for writing this introduction, I was frankly 
amazed by how many ideas Moldvay strews through its pages. 




The subterranean Lost City of the Cynidiceans is a good example of 
what I mean. There are less than 20 keyed encounter areas to go with 
the map of the city provided and none of them is more than five or 
six sentences long (with most being two or three). Yet, many of them 
could easily inspire adventures of their own. For example, the Island 
of Death in the middle of the Underground Lake boasts a Stone- 
henge-like structure that predates the Cynidiceans, as well as caves 
filled with undead. Likewise, goblins and hobgoblins inhabit a series 
of cliff dwellings nearby and, in the middle of the Wasteland, is a lava 
pit called the Eye of Zargon, guarded by creatures of elemental flame. 




Then there are the Cynidiceans themselves, who, we are told, “spend 
most of their time living in strange dream worlds.” They wear styl- 
ized masks of animals and unusual costumes, which only serve to 




THE Lost City 




strengthen the dreams they experience. With each generation, fewer 
and fewer tend to the needs of their society and those that do serve 
Zargon, a powerful monster masquerading as a god. There are even 
game stats for Zargon, so that enterprising—or foolish—characters 
can attempt to overthrow it and restore sanity to the Lost City. This 
latter endeavor is only one of eight “further adventures” Moldvay of- 
fers up as examples of how to continue to use Zhe Lost City after the 
dungeon has been thoroughly explored. 




I can’t stress enough how inspirational I found this module when | 
first read it. Having just re-read it, I find myself tempted to call it the 
best adventure Moldvay ever wrote and one of the great adventures 
of the first decade of the hobby of role-playing. 7he Lost City presents 
no story; it’s almost pure location and so much of that location is left 
to the Dungeon Master to develop for himself, aided by Moldvay’s 
evocative suggestions and his own imagination. That's what a good 
adventure module should do in my view, particularly those geared 
toward beginning role-players, as this one is. 




The Lost City is, | think, an under-appreciated masterpiece—but 
don’t just take my word for it! I can think of no better way to honor 
the memory of Tom Moldvay than to read what follows and im- 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED ° 




merse yourself in its details. Then, go ahead and use it in your own 
campaigns, in whatever way you choose. Like the best modules of 
the past, it can serve as a springboard to all manner of memorable 
fantastic scenarios. 




Enjoy! 
—_~_~_a__-L___ _——- 




James Maliszewski started role-playing in the late Fall of 1979, when he 
opened up a copy of the Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set edited by Dr. J. 
Eric Holmes originally purchased for his father. More than 40 years later, 
hes still playing. James is known for his blog Grognardia, which was the 
focal point of the OSR movement in its early days. 




His memories and musings about role-playing games and related nonsense, 
as well as articles about the history of the hobby from its earliest beginnings 
to the present day, remain of interest to readers to this day. 




THE Lost city 




Goodman Games Interviews 




Harold Johnson 
by Tim Wadzinski 




of the Coast, from April of 1979 through December of 1999, 


in a variety of roles, and worked on multiple editions of Dun- 
geons & Dragons. Among his many accomplishments are the classic 
AD&D module Cl: The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan; contributions 
to the Dungeon Masters Guide and the Slave Lords / “A” series; work 
on the Dragonlance, Forgotten Realms, and Ravenloft product lines; 
and writing for the Gamma World, Gangbusters, and Indiana Jones 
role-playing games. He and Jon Pickens are credited with editing B4: 
The Lost City. Mr. Johnson remains very active in the gaming conven- 
tion scene. He also runs the Breadloaf Book Shop in Lake Geneva, 
Wisconsin, and is a member of the Geneva Theatre Actors Guild. 




‘a arold “Wisconsin” Johnson spent 21 years at TSR and Wizards 




We were excited to speak with him about his tenure at TSR, his 
many contributions to the role-playing hobby, and his work with 




Tom Moldvay on The Lost City. 




Goodman Games: | did some research on you and your affiliation 
with TSR and I'd like to know what prompted you, coming out of 
school, to apply there for a game editor position. 




Harold Johnson: Well, | had a degree in biology and nowhere to go 
but to become a biotechnician for places like Abbott Labs, or work 
for a drug company, because a Bachelor of Science in biology doesn’t 
do much for you—and I hated that concept. I was trying to figure 
out what to do with my life. 




[had a job, at the time, working for a union parking cars, and I went 
to Gen Con in 1978 and found out that TSR had an opening for 
a game editor. I got back from Gen Con, I picked up the phone, I 
called Mike Carr—who was the one who answered the phone—and 
said they probably had already hired somebody, but they wouldn't 
know my skills if they didn’t give me an interview. So, they invited 
me up for an interview. 




I had no car, so I actually had to take the train up to Milwaukee, a 
bus down from Milwaukee, and then walk to the interview. It was 
a good interview. | made myself a portfolio of my work from my 
campaign, with my charts and so on that I had been developing. Our 
group had noticed there was no Dungeon Masters Guide at the time, 
and so we were creating our own. 




I met with Gary Gygax after talking with Mike. It was identified that 
the position had already been filled, that there was no position avail- 
able. But Gary and I talked, and at the time, I pretty much thought 
nobody knew who I was. About 10 years ago, I realized that was not 
so, but at that time, I thought nobody knew who I was. 




I was talking to Gary. He asked what got me up there. I said, “Well, 
I have a minor in history, but it’s not a typical minor in history, it’s a 
minor in ancient Near Eastern religions, so Hittites, Acadians, Sumer- 
ian, Babylonian, Canaanite, Egyptian, Greek, Roman. That sort of 
stuff. Mythology.” When I said the word ancients, Gary—who was in 




love with ancients—perked up his ears, and the two of us spent the 
rest of the time doing a role-playing game for ancient societies, which 
later Dangerous Journeys was, but that was many, many years later. 




I went home with no job, and about three months later, there was 
a position posted to become the lead designer for Dungeons & 
Dragons because Gary was the only one writing for it. I applied. 
My whole goal was ot to take the job. My whole goal was to get the 
company to be convinced that I would be a good hire, to offer me 
the job, and then I would say, “I’m a scientist. No, thank you.” The 
point being that I was trying to give myself an ego boost so I could 
go back and enter the actual business world versus working for TSR. 




GG: [Laughs] That’s quite a story. 




HJ: True story. When I was eventually offered the job, I then said 
to my friends, “Well, now is the next step where I call them and 
say, “Thanks, but no thanks,” and my friends said, “Are you insane?! 
There are lots of people who would kill for this opportunity. You've 
been offered the number one job and lead designer for the company,” 
and I said, “Yeah, yeah, but I'm a scientist. My dad will kill me.” 
Turns out, my dad actually thought it was a great idea. They con- 
vinced me to take the job. 




I called back and said I'd take the job. Two months later, Gary called 
and said the editor they had hired quit, and they were in the midst of 
doing Dungeon Masters Guide. They needed me up there as an editor 
since I had applied as an editor. I said, “But... but... I want to be a 
writer now.” I had been a writer for some time. I was a playwright; I 
had published my own magazines with amateur writings from vari- 
ous people. [Laughs] It was interesting. I came up as an editor with 
the understanding that one day, I would transfer back to the design 
department, which did not happen. 




GG: Really? Never in all your years at TSR? 




HJ: No. I became an editor; | worked as an editor for about a year, 
and then I was made a manager. That really came about because they 
would say to me, “Well, this is your next project,” and I would say, 
“No, its not,” and they'd get this puzzled look on their faces and 




nD « 




say, “Yes. It’s what we need you to do next.” “No, actually, you dont 
need me to do that. What you need me to do is answer the phones 
for Gen Con because you have nobody here answering the phones, 
and you have all these customers calling concerned about Gen Con, 
and the only person running Gen Con is offsite and not available to 
take any of the phone calls.” So I did that a lot to them, in the first 
year, about different tasks and different assignments. In the end, they 
said, “Hmm. He likes to boss people around. Why don’t you make 




him a boss?” 
GG: Would you say you were you a tough boss or a fair boss? 




HJ: I think I was a coach. I was manager of design for about a month, 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED * THE LOST City 




and then Allen Hammack, who had seniority on me, asked to be in 
charge of design, so I stepped over to become manager of editing. 
My goal was... Bosses have a different way to handle things. A lot 
of bosses, if it’s a victory, it’s the boss’s victory, and if it’s a failure, he 
points at the team and says it’s their fault. 




GG: Sure. We've all seen that. 




HJ: I did it the other way. | said if it was a victory, it wasn’t me, it was 
the team who did it, and if it was a failure, it was my fault because 
I didn’t communicate well. And I kept a low profile. I gave credit to 
the staff, even though, at times, I actually was the editor as well as the 
editor-in-chief as well as the developer on a product—but the goal 
was to promote the credits of my staff, so I gave them credits for do- 
ing some of the tasks. The editor of the Dungeons & Dragons Basic 
set, Anne Gray—later Anne McCready—was actually our copyedi- 
tor. I was the editor; she was the copyeditor. I took the developmen- 
tal credit, is what I put myself down as. 




GG: You were there for quite a while, and you wore many hats work- 
ing in many areas of the company. I don’t know if you can even 
answer this, but what was your favorite part of working at TSR? 




HJ: My favorite part of working there was the people and the crea- 
tivity. But if you're asking as far as tasks and assignments, I think it 
was working with Gen Con. Gen Con and meeting planning was 
when people came to know that Harold Johnson existed because 
even though I was the editor-in-chief on everything and the director 
of publishing, I took a backseat, so they didn’t know who I was. Even 
my design, I would give credit to a coauthor, and in some cases, it 
was just someone who gave me ideas, and I did all the writing, but I 
gave them credit for it. 




When I became the director of consumer services, which included 
Gen Con, I found that Gen Con was a little bit of everything. It was 
negotiation; it was marketing; it was planning; it was innovating; 
service; lots of things, and always different every day. I took a little 
pride in working with Gen Con, and during that time, we changed 
our attitude from “We're doing you a favor letting you exhibit at Gen 
Con” to “Oh, no, no, no, we're here to help you guys succeed. We're 
a service organization. We're not taking pride that this is our conven- 
tion and we're just doing you guys a favor letting you be here.” 




I became very helpful to the community, to the industry, as well as to 
the attendees, and that’s when people started to know. “Oh, who do 
you want to talk to? You want to talk to Harold. He can fix things.” 
{Laughs] I thrive on that. I like doing that a lot. 




I got to talk to media. I was one of the first ones, actually, allowed to 
officially speak for the company in public, on public radio, later on 
public television, that sort of thing, so that’s good. I was an actor be- 
fore I ever came to the company. I had made my career, since age 14 
on, as a paid actor, playwriter, director, and that’s where my money 
came from to go to school. I like applause. I like celebrity. That’s a 




good thing. [Laughs] Gen Con let me be a celebrity. 




GG: That’s awesome. Along those lines, everyone knows you wrote 
the classic module 7he Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan. You contributed 
heavily to the Dragonlance line, which was also huge. What do you 
consider your greatest accomplishment in gaming? 




HJ: In gaming? Wow. [Laughs] I think my greatest accomplishment 
in gaming, people don’t notice. It was to be a leader and teacher of 




saa a RT 




aca em tem SS scorer 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED 




“In the ‘A’ series, it starts out with you 
fighting half-orcs at mid-level, and by the 
time you are at high level, you are fighting 
kobolds, and it progressed downwards. It 
went from half-orcs to orcs to hobgoblins 
to goblins to kobolds, and as the player 
characters got more powerful, the monsters 
got weaker, and yet we challenged the 
heroes because of the strategy and the 
story and the planning.” 




TED 
e 




those who use our products. When I did Cl: The Hidden Shrine of 
Tamoachan—which, by the way, was a typo; it was supposed to be 
Tamoanchan, but the N got dropped out and had been from that 
point on—I was trying to do an adventure in a different way from 
all those that had come before. I was inspired by some of the things 
that Gary showed in Village of Hommlet, where he had text set out 
that was something that can be revealed to the player characters right 
away, and then more text that youd have to search for—you'd have 
to interact with the environment and the creatures and so on—to 
learn that information. 




I said, “Well, I want drama.” A playwright, right? [Laughs] “I want 
drama. I want theater. I can’t be certain that the Dungeon Master’s 
going to understand how to create that drama and that atmosphere, 
so I’m going to write descriptive text. I'm going to give you a story 
piece that you can read to the players ahead of time,” and that be- 
came a standard in the industry; still is today. 




A lot of the other things I did... I said, “The previous adventures were 
all ‘Here’s a monster. Fight the monster. Kill him. Get his treasure. 
Here’s the treasure.” Tended to be lists of monsters with treasures. 
Mine said, “Let’s talk about tactics. Let’s talk about consequences to 
action. Let’s talk about lessons that the players need to learn to work 
effectively as a team and to thrive in a dungeon.” 




In Yamoachan, there’s a place where there’s a pile of gold sitting on 
the floor right in the middle of the corridor, and the lesson that 
you're going to learn, if you mess with that gold, is there’s no such 
thing as a free lunch because, of course, it’s trapped, and you should 
have been wary of it anyway. It’s just lying there unprotected! Come 
on! [Laughs] You really think we would design an adventure that 
way? Tamoachan set the standard that is even now used today, 40 
years later. 




When I helped contribute to the “A” series... in fact the “A” se- 
ries was based on the only adventure I ever ran for any people who 
worked for TSR. One day, I brought them in, and they said, “You 
want to do an adventure?” I said, “Give me some time.” I wrote char- 
acter backgrounds, I mixed them up randomly and handed them 
out to the players, and I put them in a country that was occupied 
by an invading force. Within 15 minutes of play, each one at a sepa- 
rate time, they all got arrested and thrown in jail for one offense or 
another. I threw them in prison, and they sat in prison for a while, 
and then they were, the next day, put on a ship to sail across the bay. 




THE Lost City 




es evs ND a mo 




cas 




em URE 




Harold Johnson's Book Store 




Since 2011, Harold Johnson has operated the Breadloaf Book Shop in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin. The store of- 
fers new and used books. It is part of the Geneva Village Shops inside a former church, at 727 Geneva Street. 
The location is mere blocks from the Gygax family home, the Horticultural Hall that hosted the first Gen Con, 
and the building that once housed The Dungeon Hobby Shop. For more information, call (262) 248-9446 
or visit the store on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/Breadloaf-Book-Shop-1440863886141160. Here 
are some photos taken by OAR series editor Tim Wadzinski on a recent visit. 




souoy yo njogg Coe toy 




¥ weal oigiaag NY TINO] 
iiind> 




NMBO AWW 




The front door to the Breadloaf Book Shop in Lake Geneva. 




The Breadloaf Book Shop is located at 727 Geneva Street in Lake Geneva, Tim Wadzinski and Harold Johnson outside 
Wisconsin, as part of the Geneva Village Shops inside a former church the Breadloaf Book Shop. 




oe a a ae 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED * THE LOST City 




They still did nothing. I actually had maps that were miniature scale, 
so you could put your miniatures on them. I was doing it back then. 
They do it nowadays, but back then, nobody was doing it. Stage. 
Theater. [Laughs] : 




We got across the bay, and we came to this big wall, and there was 
a door in this cliff face, huge door, and they creaked the door open, 
and as they creaked the door open, this goblin bolts out through the 
door, runs down through the surf, and takes an arrow in the back 
of the head and falls dead in the surf. All the players felt “Uh-oh.” 
[Laughs] I threw them into a dungeon with no weapons, no posses- 
sions, minimal spells, and said, “Survive.” This was based, of course, 
on the “Star Trek” episode “Arena.” Afterwards, they said, “Oh, this 
is cool. We need to do this. Giving players at even a high level the 
chance, the sense of risk and drama, it happens if you take away 
everything you have, so we know what we're going to do for a round 
of this tournament.” 




When we did the “A” series, the other lesson I taught was monsters 
are not stupid. Monsters are as smart as the players. Up to this point, 
monsters would just attack. You could stand in a doorway, narrow 
the attack, and wait for them to come at you one at a time and pick 
them all off. When we did the “A” series, I said, “Let’s not do that. 
Let’s teach them several lessons.” One of the lessons we taught was 
strategy: ambushes, tricks. There’s a scene where these orcs are stand- 
ing ona set of stairs, so they get different levels. There’s a heavy force 
up front defending the ones further up on the stairs, and the ones 
on the stairs have missile weapons, and at the very back, magic-users. 
“Gee, oh, these monsters are ready for us, and we've got to run down 
the corridor at them. Boy, that really sucks.” 




We were showing them strategy. I wanted to show them that that 
could happen. The other thing that the “A” series did was because 
I do not like monster inflation. I think that a game, as you advance 
in level, should challenge you mentally, should challenge the play- 
ers and the heroes mentally, more than “We have to create bigger 
monsters because you're tougher.” In the “A” series, it starts out with 
you fighting half-orcs at mid-level, and by the time you are at high 
level, you are fighting kobolds, and it progressed downwards. It went 
from half-orcs to orcs to hobgoblins to goblins to kobolds, and as the 
player characters got more powerful, the monsters got weaker, and 
yet we challenged the heroes because of the strategy and the story 
and the planning. Those who would follow used this as a basis to 
write their own adventures, and they started going, “Oh. Monsters 
aren't stupid.” [Laughs] 




I think that’s the thing that I feel I contributed mostly to role-playing 
games, and all of my work at the game company was always to say, 
“Just because it hasn’t been done this way before does not mean that 
we should be satisfied with the past. Let’s see if there’s an evolution, 
if there’s another thing that we can do.” 




When we did Ravenloft, originally vampires were vampires were vam- 
pires. I suggested that wasn’t so, that if you had a vampire who drains 
you by music, that would be a different vampire. You would go, “Oh 
no, now I have to learn how to defeat this vampire. It’s not like I know 
the standards for killing vampires.” Or one that does it through laugh- 
ter or one that does it through, I don’t know, leaching plants. We then 
wrote a series of adventures, the Van Richten’s Guides, and you would 
get mini adventures featuring 13 different takes on golems or 13 dif- 
ferent takes on a vampire to show you that things differ. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARTA 




TED 




LEY SELENE ELSE LE RELIST LEED TE LIEN TLE III 




One of my biggest pet peeves in gaming and role-playing is that not 
every kender is Tasslehoff Burrfoot. I know; /im Tasslehoff Burrfoot. 
He was my character; I created him; I know who he is. Every kender is 
as different as every human being is from the next human being, and if 
you believe the drawings of some people who illustrated kender, they 
all look exactly like Tasslehoff Burrfoot. Bah. He’s a unique character. 




I did write a two-part story for Dragon magazine, which introduc- 
es you to 10 different takes on kenders—10 different characters of 
kenders—just to show you that there are evil kenders, and there’s 
good kenders, you know? {Laughs] People are people are people; 
they're unique. Kenders are people. Dwarves are people. They may 
have some common traits, they may be corrupt, they may like to 
drink, they may be immune to magic, but one dwarf is not the same 
as the next dwarf to him, and I'd like people to learn that, too. There's 
a lot of fun in looking at your non-player characters—at your mon- 
sters and your supporting humanoids—and making each one unique 
and different because it adds so much more depth to your story and 
your adventure. 




“There’s a lot of fun in looking at your non- 
player characters—at your monsters and 
your supporting humanoids—and making 
each one unique and different because it 
adds so much more depth to your story 
and your adventure.” 




ee SSSSoons 




GG: When you worked with Tom Moldvay on The Lost City, were you 
able to apply any of these principles you've been talking about here? 




HJ: I was, and we did, but we also did it in the design of The Lost City. 
I just noted that the original Lost City, we drilled the first edition so 
that it could be added to a three-ring binder. It had three holes in it 
so that you can put it in a three-ring binder, and we were proposing 
to do this with adventures. That one happened, and then when they 
reprinted it, management thought it was stupid and stopped doing 
that. We came back to it with the Monstrous Compendiums, and we 
did loose-leaf so you could pick and choose—instead of carrying 20 
tons of support product to a game, you could just pick the monsters 
you want and the portions of the adventure you want. Throw it into 
a three-ring binder, and just carry that to the game. We did that. 




Another thing that we did, we actually learned from the past as well. 
When Mike Carr did Jn Search of the Unknown, the very first “B” 
module—Lost City is B4; In Search of the Unknown is B1—he made 
it so that it was not just a pre-generated adventure or dungeon or 
ruin. He made it so that you can personalize it as a DM, that it was a 
teaching guide. We did that with Lost City so that the upper levels are 
in detail, and the lower levels are mapped out with some suggestions 
as to what is there, but we really left it vague so that the nouveau 
referee, the Dungeon Master, could personalize it, could pick which 
monsters he wanted to use. 




The one thing about role-playing that we don’t talk a lot about is eve- 
ry role-playing adventure is unique to you. Your story is not the same 
as somebody else who plays the same adventure because different 
things happen, and different takes on challenges and how the mon- 




THE Lost City 




eae STS TERE 




PST a TS PE EA GN i Ur 




sters react with you are based on the creativity of the Dungeon Mas- 
ter. The players, with their Dungeon Master, are creating a unique 
story, which is one of the reasons you would find role-players who 
would sit down and want to tell you the story of their adventure be- 
cause it was unique to them. If you didn’t play with them, you didn’t 
experience what they experienced, and it was enjoyable just to retell 
it. We did that in B4. We designed it so that as you went further into 
it, it would become vaguer as you went. 




What we did in B4 would later be used when I did the Dragonlance 
products two years later. We did some of the things I did in C1. I did 
a monster chart so I didn’t have to list monster stats in the encounter. 
That always took up a lot of space, so I did it on a master chart, and 
I could leave the monster statistics—the armor class, hit points, and 
so on—off, out of the module. It made the module interesting to 
read without stopping and just glossing over the stats, plus you could 
always find the stats; they're always in one place. 




Another thing that we then would do—in Tamoachan, we gave the 
monsters tactics. In Lost City, we gave ideas for what we later came to 
call adventure kernels or seeds. They were ideas for adventures, and 
they might have something at its core. In the case of the last layer 
of B4, you encounter Zargon, the one-eyed beast. But even with 
Zargon, while we've given you his stats, we made him immortal. He 
has the ability to regenerate, although you don’t know it because it’s 
a slow regeneration. [Laughs] You can kill him and think, “Ah, I’ve 
managed,” and down the road, a couple weeks from now, a couple 
years from now, Zargon could reappear because he regenerated and 
he’s back alive. 




This led to another thing we did. We have a cursed item. There's a 
scroll you read, and it changes the body of the person who reads it. It 
changes you to look like a mini copy of Zargon. 




GG: [Laughs] Yes. That is quite nasty and fun. 




HJ: You think that Zargon’s just trying to be a spirit possessing a hu- 
man, and that gets you to ignore the fact that Zargon’s over here on 
the right regenerating because you now think, “Oh, he is a spirit that 
jumps from body to body.” 




GG: He is a great villain. Was he inspired by anything in particular? 
Or was he purely constructed by the team? 




“Tom and | both had a love of Robert E. 
Howard’s Conan stories and H.P. Lovecraft’s 
‘The Call of Cthulhu’ and the Eldritch 
monsters. A lot of the monsters that we 
have created and added to Dungeons & 
Dragons are based on this otherworldly 
nature that’s almost Cthulhuian, and | think 
that was Zargon. Zargon is a creature right 
out of a Conan story.” 




HJ: Well, mostly it was Tom’s idea, but Tom and I both had a love of 
Robert E. Howard’s Conan stories and H.P. Lovecraft’s “The Call of 
Cthulhu” and the Eldritch monsters. A lot of the monsters that we 




cnmeairaas 




it eee ee nD a NEN NNT 




ft RSG NS A SE RSE EESTI SS a ET 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REincaRnAtED e 




have created and added to Dungeons & Dragons are based on this 
otherworldly nature that’s almost Cthulhuian, and I think that was 
Zargon. Zargon is a creature right out of a Conan story. It would 
have been something that would have been very much at home with 
Conan—and Robert E. Howard was a big fan of H.P. Lovecraft. If 
you look in some of his short stories, he actually chants one of the 
chants from “The Call of Cthulhu.” All I remember right now is that 
fhtagn is one of the words. 




I think that you'll see that was where Zargon comes from, and right 
now, a lot of the creatures that I created—the cloaker, the gibbering 
mouther—they’re very Cthulhuian. They're very odd, alien, unnatu- 
ral things. They're not a fairy; they’re not an orc; they're not a witch. 
They’re something that is unpredictable. You don’t know what it is. 




In the early days, the standard was that—and Gary started this stand- 
ard—when you wrote an adventure, you would introduce at least one 
new monster, so that was a perk that the people who bought it would 
get. The remorhaz appears in the Against the Giants series, in The Gla- 
cial Rift of the Frost Giant Jarl. We would always do that. When I did 
Tamoachan, there are several new monsters, as well as classic monsters 
are then referenced, like the amphisbaena. The werejaguar—we didn’t 
have a werejaguar in our thing, but a jaguar is equivalent of a tiger in 
South America and Central America. We would introduce something 
new. I think that’s where Zargon comes from. 




GG: The adventure as a whole, and the idea of a lost underground 
city—were those inspired by any books or movies? 




HJ: Conan the Barbarian. We were very much into Conan. A lot of 
the birth of Dungeons & Dragons came about by the reintroduction 
and the public’s rediscovery of the Conan stories, done mostly by 
Curtis Magazines with Marvel—Marvel owned the black-and-white 
Curtis Magazines—and The Lord of the Rings, which had reached the 
stage in the late 1950s, early 1960s, and that brought fantasy into 
what we were doing. We were originally just doing historical armies, 
and then we said, “Ooh, we could do dwarves; we could do giants.” 
[Laughs] Dave Arneson, the one who introduced dragons, said, 
“Ooh, we could do these things, too,” and that’s where fantasy came 
from. I know that Gary, myself, a lot of the design team were fans of 
those grandfathers—or uncles—of horror and modern fantasy. 




GG: What about the concept of the different factions in The Lost 
City? That’ certainly interesting. Where did that come from? 




HJ: There is a Conan adventure called “Red Nails,” and in it Conan, 
who comes out of a jungle having fought an earth dragon—which, 
in fact, is just a giant dinosaur—and killed this dinosaur, finds this 
encapsulated city, and he goes into the city. 




The Conan material was written as a series of entries in magazines, 
so it was a serial, and serials tended to be cliffhangers at the end of a 
chapter. In that story, “Red Nails,” he encounters two factions. One 
has him captured and is torturing and killing parts and members of 
the other faction. He decides to throw his fate in with the underdog 
and rescues the underdog, only to find out that he’s a prince of the 
second faction, and that city has the two factions going on, plus the 
one faction has a wizard with a flute that can summon ancient ter- 
rors—again, Cthulhuian-like terrors—from the bowels of the earth 
and bring them up to kill the other. It’s the Hatfields and McCoys 
with X factors thrown in, such as the outsider Conan. A lot of the 
Conan stories had that kind of aspect. 




TA IAT 




THE Lost City 




ULMER AE ALLE TES OEM EE ESSE LAD APTI NN PN 




We were inspired by those stories. We always did our own, but I 
think there’s a desire in what I write to give you a sense of “Oh! Boy, 
this feels familiar.” That's what I want. [Laughs] I want you to sit 
there and go, “Oh my. I think I know what this is,” because if you 
think you know what it is, I’m going to mislead you and take you in 
a different direction and surprise you. [Laughs] 




GG: What was it like working with Tom Moldvay? 




HJ: Wow. I worked on many projects with Tom. We did D&D Basic 
and D&D Expert together as editing and development teams. He 
helped cowrite or type up the updated version of A2: Secret of the 
Slavers Stockade because as the manager, I was always behind sched- 
ule. I would give him my notes and explain to him what my inten- 
tion was, and then he'd go off and write. He very much got my ideas. 
I would give him a half-baked idea; he'd come back, “Well, I did 
this.” “Well, that’s right! That's what I meant!” or “No, no, no, do it 
this way, Tom.” [Laughs] He was very responsive. 




I don’t know that Tom and I were friends, but we were friendly co- 
workers, and I certainly respected his skills as an author. I was sad 
when he departed the company. I was happy when he brought out 
his own role-playing game, Lords of Creation, that was published by 
Avalon Hill. 




I saw a lot of the things that he had learned while he was working 
with TSR helped develop role-playing further. What we would see 
from other companies was an adding on of layers of complexity to 
existing role-playing. Our friends at Iron Crown started with Arms 
Law and Claw Law, and those were critical hit tables. It was just 
books and books of tables, and it was levels and levels of complexity, 
which it did drive us to do and include some of this stuff standard, 




but we didn’t need books and books of tables. [Laughs] 




Tom actually got that it was story, that what we were doing was a 
game that was creating a story, not a facsimile of reality. We didn’t 
care. We were there to entertain and tell a story and get you to help 
direct the story and determine the stages of drama and wherever it 
was going to go with the legend you were forging for your heroes. 




GG: I can see how the design of The Lost City fits in with those ideas. 
Did you have a favorite or a least favorite part of that module? Does 
anything stick out? 




HJ: I wanted to do more with the actual Lost City. We just devoted 
a page to ideas and, as I said, we have what we call adventure kernels 
or adventure seeds, so we would describe “Here’s this underground 
chasm that is beneath the lake. It has undertows,” and things like 
that. We would describe it, but I could envision something dark, 
like from the Mariana Trench, living down in that chasm beneath 
the underground lake and that it was a danger. As a matter of fact, 
later on, you see something that would have lived in that chasm: 
the aboleth, another Cthulhuian-like creature, rises up out of a deep 




underground chasm in Zeb Cook’s Dwellers of the Forbidden City. 




I wish we had had more space than one page, but I was delighted that 
we could get one page and not ignore the fact that the city was there be- 
cause what we were trying to do was give you—a term I’ve recently be- 
come familiar with, and by this I mean two months ago—we gave you 
a “sandbox,” an early sandbox. ‘That is to say, “Here’s the tools you need 
to run your own campaign. Here’s random encounter charts. Here's 
backstories. Here’s maps of the area. Okay, now you start overlaying 




IMAL ADVE 




SSS SS 




a al Lm 




——a 




your own adventures, challenges, traps, and stories to this setting and 
the underground city.” The lost city of Cynidicea actually is one of the 
first sandboxes that was ever published. It gives you that sense of “Ooh, 
I could run many adventures here around each of them.” 




Later on, I did my own adventures that I wrote for the RPGA Net- 
work and their tournaments. Bear of Tristor is based on a campaign 
adventure that I wrote for my local players, and you were chasing 
what you thought was a killer bear who had taken a child, and you 
wander across this entire terrain, which has landmarks and various 
challenges. I actually had wandering things—I had a goblin band, 
I had wolves, and I had two bears because, of course, there’s a red 
herring in there—and those things would move when the players 
moved, so they’re moving around the map, too. [Laughs] 




What people said to me, after we'd played the adventure—you had 
destroyed the one bear, saved the other bear, saved the child, brought 
him home—was, “I need another adventure,” and I would go and Id 
look at this map that I did for Bear of Tristor, and I said, “Ah. I could 
use these landmarks to start another adventure.” One landmark is a 
knoll with a worn-out dolmen at the top surrounded by heather— 
purple heather—and when you step on the heather, as you approach 
this dolmen, there’s the sensation of somebody just walked across 
your grave—you know, a chill up and down your back. Why? I don’t 
know! I thought it was neat. [Laughs] 




When I first did it, it was just drama, so when we did a further adven- 
ture of that setting, as in Cynidicea again, a sandbox is what it became 
for me. I could look at the landmarks I established and say, “Oh, let 
me further divine what’s here at this landmark, this ruined chapel, 
this cave in the hills—whatever,” and I think that that’s what we see 
in Lost City: the potential for finding side passages to levels that we 
didn’t even know existed or a set of caverns or, in this case, the city. 




“The lost city of Cynidicea 
actually is one of the first sandboxes 
that was ever published.” 




GG: Do you remember anything particularly entertaining or inter- 
esting that characters did while adventuring in the Lost City in the 
module? 




HJ: Oh, wow. [Laughs] Oh my goodness. You know how long ago 
that was? We're talking 1982. 




GG: I was hoping there was that one story, that classic story that 
endures forever because the players did something so crazy. 




HJ: I’m sure there are many stories. The adventures I write myself, 
they're invented in my head. I can’t get rid of them. People say, “How 
do you come up with the ideas?” and Id say, “I don’t. I'm recording 
the ideas.” “Where do they come from?” “ 
the historian than the creator.” I know them as a piece of history, 
but something like Lost City, I was oversight. [Laughs] I was Tom 




Moldvay’s muse at that point. I gave him ideas, and he would run 




I don’t know. I'm more 




some playtests on his own, and then there'd be some games where I'd 
witness it, but you might see only two or three encounters, and that’s 
not really indicative of the whole adventure. 




MNTVURES REINCARNATED ° THE LOST City 




ES NS SEE: 




2 2 RES aan Dw ay ee ea ame LO A 




2S HT TL ATT ST TR 




Tim Wadzinski, Andy Frielink, Harold Johnson, and Todd Kath at Gary Con XI (March 2019 in Lake Geneva, WI), immediately 
after Johnson TPK’d their party in an AD&D tournament game 




GG: You mentioned playtesting. In the formative years of the hobby, 
how did playtesting work at TSR? Did people volunteer or were they 
assigned to it? When they had feedback, how did that process work? 




HJ: That’s a great question. I would say unlike Wizards of the 
Coast, who hired people to do the playtesting of Magic: the Gather- 
ing—and they would do it 24 hours a day and that was all they did 
was they'd come in and they'd do iteration after iteration of cards 
and see how the balance and imbalance was—at TSR, it really came 
down to the designer. 




Tracy Hickman J/oved to flesh out his maps. He’d finish his maps first. 
I'm a “maps last” kind of guy; Tracy is a “maps first” type of person. 
He would flesh out that. He'd create some of the encounters based 
on the neat sections he'd put to the map, and then he would gather 
players, have them generate characters, so they were random char- 
acters—the original Tasslehoff Burrfoot, the precursor, was a hobbit 
thief named Almar Tann—and he’d run us through the adventure 
not knowing what to expect. He knew what encounters he had, but 
he didn’t know the drama, the theater. That was really provided by 
the playtesters. 




He chose to do that at his apartment offsite. There were ones that 
would do it at lunch hours in the games library; there ones that 
would do it on weekends at their house or in the evenings at their 
house. I would do it at conventions. I would go to conventions, and 
people would seek me out and say, “What are you running?” and I'd 
say, “Nothing. I came to play!” [Laughs] They'd say, “Oh, no, no, 
you've got to run something!” “I didn’t bring anything!” Eventually 
Id bring out my notes on the adventures that I was working on then, 
and we would play that, and then I would go back and say, “This 
worked; this didn’t work. I need more definition,” or “I need to add 
an element that will get it across.” 




I have an adventure I just wrote. One encounter has these mysterious 
black lobes come down through a chimney and fall, and they turn 




into spiders. When you smash a spider, it goes up in a puff of smoke, 
and the surviving spiders all grow a little bigger till there’s one spider 
who’s about the size of a horse. Now, I knew what I intended, which 
was you should have figured out killing the spiders is a bad thing. 
[Laughs] You should trap them somewhere while they're weaker be- 
cause, eventually, you’re going to make this gargantuan spider that’s 
going to kill you. I don’t think the players got it during the playtest, 
so I've gone back and thought, “Hmm. Maybe I should add some 
sort of element to give them a clue to that effect.” 




It doesn’t even have to be about the spiders. It could be about some- 
thing else. It could be about drugs and how a drug has a certain effect 
as a poison when ir’s at full titration, but when it is weakened and 
divided and subdivided and sub-subdivided, it becomes an enhance- 
ment for astral projection or something like that, and that would 
give them a clue to look at the idea about “divide and conquer.” 




It changes. We do adjust things when it plays. We do not have the 
hubris of saying, “Ha! I killed all the characters!” A lot of people talk 
about Hidden Shrine of lamoachan being one of the deadliest adven- 
tures ever out there. I'll tell you that there are other ones, like 7omb 
of Horrors. It was never my intention to make it a deadly adventure. 
It was my intention to make you move fast. That’s why there’s poison 
gas. It’s really not poison gas. It was later defined by, I think, on a 
rewrite as poison gas, but it was stale air. It was a lack of oxygen. 
That’s what you were suffering from, and the reason I did damage to 
you was to say, “If you keep dawdling, you're just going to die of as- 
phyxiation, so you need to move. You need to make quick decisions. 
You need to move swiftly and get to fresh air, or you're going to die.” 
That’s why it’s there. It’s not there to kill them all off, but it does a 
good job of doing that. [Laughs] 




GG: Yes, indeed! Harold, thank you very much. Those are some 
great stories. 




HJ: No problem. 




BEE SR eT SS SSS SE SN ES Ec REISS OO 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED * THE LOST City 




1 CT SSR UA SE ST VAC 




essa rtp ba SR ERS 3 ND ANU 




1) ee ES SE 




eT TT SR FTP FESR oe RT FOTN PEAT AME SR CE ATF 




CHAPTER TWO 




B4: The Lost City 
Original Publication 




he Lost City was originally published by TSR in 1982. Unfor- 
T tunately, as with many early TSR products, there are no de- 
finitive records of the printing history. Dedicated collectors 
have pieced together some of the printing history, and based on their 
notes we believe there were at least four printings of 7he Lost City, 




possibly five. 




The first printing had a yellow diagonal stripe at the upper left corner. 
After several printings, the format of the cover changed to include a 
red horizontal banner across the top. There were at least two print- 
ings of the “yellow banner edition,” based on the shift in placement 
of the ISBN and product number/piece code. There may have been 
a third printing, based on the hole-punching and slight change in 
cover dimensions (by approximately 1/8”) evident in some editions. 
There may even have been a fourth printing, based on some editions 
that have a card stock header attached, although this may have sim- 
ply been a repackaged edition of a first printing. There is believed to 
be only one printing of the “red banner edition.” 




What follows here is a complete scan of what we believe to be the 
first printing of 7he Lost City. Following that complete scan is a scan 
of the cover for the first “red banner edition.” The interior contents 
of that later printing are essentially identical to prior printings. 




Through the course of creating our SE conversion of The Lost City, 
we identified a number of typographical errors in the original— 
more than was typical for a TSR publication. In the off chance that 
a reader of this volume intends to run a game from the original TSR 
edition, here are some things to be aware of, mostly related to map 
discrepancies. You can reference the 5E conversion maps for correc- 
tions to many of these issues. 




Map Issues 




e Areas 1 & 6 are connected by a trapdoor that isn’t shown in either 
room. (In addition, falling through it causes 1d6 damage despite 
the ceiling height of area 6 being 15 feet.) 




¢ Area 17a is not labeled on the map. The text for this area doesn’t 
match the map (20x10 vs. 10x10). It is implied that there are two 
normal doors, whereas one is secret on the map, and then area 18 
is called “Secret Room.” 




e Areas 24 and 24a are transposed on the map. 
¢ Area 27a is not labeled on the map. 
¢ In area 44, the room description should say 27a, not 27. 




* Area 50 has several issues. The double doors are not clearly marked 
on the map. The boxed text and room text conflict on northeast vs. 
northwest directions. 




¢ Area 50a is not labeled on the map. 




Text Issues 




e Area 56. The boxed text should not be boxed (or at least that’s our 
interpretation). 




° Area 57 refers to 54 and 55 but should say 55 and 56a. 




¢ Areas 71 and 72. Both say Usamigaras but we believe one of these 
should be for Madarua. 




As always, some of the printing information in this entry owes a debt 
of gratitude to The Acaeum, an online site for D&D collectors. For 
more information, visit www.acaeum.com. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Dungeon Module B4 




by Tom Moldvay 
AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3 




af STS 
er WES SSS LE 




\) 4 ay 




Lost in the desert! The only hope for survival lies in a ruined city rising out of the sans. Food, water, and wealth await heroic 
adventurers inside an ancient pyramid ruled by a strange race of masked beings. 




This module includes a cover folder with maps, anda descriptive booklet with a ready-made adventure for the 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® BASIC game. It also includes enough information to continue the adventure beyond level 3,using 




the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Expert game rules. 




© 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




PRINTED IN U.S.A 




IEEE EEE EP NID 




“onicinaL AD VENTURES REIMCARMATED e “THE Lost city 




REED ILS EI SEND TL EC SEMEL LIL ID 




Side View of Secret Door 




Tier 2 




Tier 1 




116-F-9049 




‘) 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




Dungeon Module B4 
The Lost City 




by Tom Moldvay 
AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3 




Lost in the desert! The only hope for survival lies in a ruined city rising out of the sands. Food, water, and wealth await heroic adventurers 
inside an ancient pyramid ruled by a strange race of masked beings. 




This module includes a cover folder with maps, anda descriptive booklet with a ready-made adventure for the DUNGEON & DRAGONS® 
Basic game. It also includes enough information to continue the adventure beyond level 3, using the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Expert 




game rules. 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks of TSR Hobbies, Inc. 




Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Hobbies (UK} Ltd. 




© 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




TSR Hobbies, Inc. TSR Hobbies, (UK) Ltd. 
POB756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Lake Geneva, Cambridge CBI4AD 
WI53147 United Kingdom 
The Game Wizards 
© 1980 TSR Hobbies. inc ~ Ail Rights Reserved 




PRINTED IN U.S.A. 9049 




ISBN 0-935696-55-5 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




19 




20 




Dungeons & Dragons® Basic Set 
Dungeon Module B4 




THE LOST CITY 




This module requires information found only in the D&D Basic 
game rules, and cannot be played without a copy of those rules. 




PART 1: INTRODUCTION 




If you plan to play in this module as a character, please stop 
reading here. The information in the rest of this module is for your 
Dungeon Master (DM) so that he or she may guide you and other 
players through the adventure. Knowing the details of this adven- 
ture will spoil the surprises and the excitement of the game for 
everyone concerned. 




The Scope of the Module 




The basic adventure in this module is the exploration of the upper 
levels of a step-pyramid.* The party, lost in a desert, finds an 
ancient ruined city. The pyramid is the largest building in the ruins. 




This module is designed for a party of 6 to 10 player characters of 
the lst through 3rd levels of experience. If the players do not 
already have characters, the pre-rolled characters given at the end 
of the module may be used. If the party is weak, the DM may allow 
non-player character (NPC) retainers to strengthen the party. The 
Dungeon Master may also weaken, strengthen, or otherwise 
change the suggested encounters to give the players a fair and 
exciting adventure. 




This is a long-term adventure, designed to be completed in several 
sessions of play. Successful characters will probably reach the 3rd 
level of experience by the time they are finished with the third 
dungeon level. The DM should not move the action too quickly, 
butgive the players time torestand regain spells between sessions. 
Note especially that the characters have no way to replace equip- 
ment or supplies except by finding items in the Lost City. 




If the DM wishes to expand the adventure further, Part 5 of the 
module outlines a lower pyramid area. A map of a hidden under- 
ground city is also provided. The DM can develop these into an 
entire campaign in which the player characters find and rebuild a 
lost civilization. (If the continent map in module X1 is used, the 
Lost City can be anywhere in the Alasiyan Desert.) 




Notes for the Dungeon Master 




This module, The Lost City, is adungeon adventure module in six 
Parts. 




Part 1 is an introduction that outlines the adventure and gives 
the DM background information. 


Part 2 details the first dungeon level. 


Part 3 describes the second dungeon level. 


Part 4 details the third dungeon level. 


Part 5 outlines lower dungeon levels that take the adventure 
beyond the D&D Basic rules. If the expanded adventure is to be 
used, the DM may find a copy of the D&D Expert rules helpful. 
Part 6 details the new monsters used in this module. 




The Glossary after Part 6 has definitions of words that might be 
unfamiliar. Words listed in the glossary will have an asterisk (*) 
after them the first time they appear. 




Before beginning the adventure, please read the module thorough- 
ly to become familiar with the Lost City. The DM’s Background 
explains the Lost City’s history. The Players’ Background is to 
be read to the players before the adventure begins. In the Encoun- 
ter Keys, the encounter number matches the location of the 
encounter on the maps. The boxed encounter information can be 
read aloud to the players at the right time. The DM must decide 
how much of the rest of the information should be told to players 
and how much should be kept secret. The DM may also add more 
details as desired, such as room dimensions, smells, sounds, 
tastes, feelings of hot and cold, and so on. Plan how monsters will 
react if the party does nothing; this is especially important for 
intelligent monsters. 




Most of the monsters in this module are found in the 2nd edition of 
the D&D Basic rule book (the red-covered book). Complete 
information will be given for any new monsters. Enough informa- 
tion will be given in the room encounters and Wandering Mon- 
ster Tables so that DMs with the lst edition of the D&D Basic 
rule book (the blue-covered Basic) will be able to use all monsters 
in this module. When monsters or non-player characters (NPCs) 
are described in the text, their details will be listed in the following 




order: 




Name(Armor Class; Hit Dice or Class/Level; hit points; Move- 
ment per round; Number of Attacks per round; Damage 
per attack; Save as Class and Level; Morale; and Align- 
ment) 




Armor Class = AC; Hit Dice = HD; Cleric = C, Dwarf =D, Elf=E, 
Fighter =F, Halfling =H, Magic-user = M, Thief = T, Normal Man = 
NM; Level=a number; hit points = hp; Movement = MV; Number 
of Attacks = #AT; Damage = D; Save = Save; Morale = ML; 
Alignment = AL. 




Class/Level is used for NPCs, while Hit Dice is used for all other 
monsters. Movement is the distance covered in one combat 
round. Movement distance in a game turn is three times the 
movement distance for one combat round. 




The DM should always give the player characters a reasonable 
chance for survival. The emphasis is on “reasonable.” Although 
there should be a chance that an unlucky or foolhardy character 
will die, give the party the benefit of the doubt whenever possible. 
Everyone should co-operate to make the adventure as muchfunas 




possible. 




Sometimes a new player will want to join the party, or a player will 
want to replace a character who has been killed. The DM can 
always treat new characters as wandering adventurers or other 
members of the party’s original caravan (see Players’ Back- 
ground). As this caravan was scattered ina sandstorm, it is always 
possible that other characters may chance upon the Lost City. 




The DM can also make a players’ map by drawing the square 
outline of each tier* (or step) of the pyramid on a blank sheet of 
graph paper. The Tier 1 map should be marked with the secret 
entrance and that part of the passage the characters can see from 
the outside. The outline of each tier can then be given to the 
players as needed. The DM should mark on the players’ map 
where the party enters each tier. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




DM’s Background 
The Fall of Cynidicea 




Centuries ago, Cynidicea was the capital of a rich and fertile 
kingdom. Its people reclaimed much land fromthe desert, especial- 
ly during the reign of King Alexander—the last and greatest king of 
Cynidicea. Upon King Alexander’s death, a huge pyramid was 
raised in his honor. This pyramid was the largest and most impor- 
tant building in the city. 




The fall of Cynidicea began on the day that workers, digging under 
the great pyramid, chanced upon the lair of a strange monster 
called Zargon. Zargon was roughly humanoid in shape, though 
larger than most humans. In place of arms and legs it had twelve 
tentacles. Its head was that of agiant lizard, with alarge black horn 
in the middle of its forehead. 




Zargon killed most of the workers, then began hunting prey at 
night through the streets of Cynidicea. The city guard was not able 
to kill the monster. At last, the city rulers began sending criminals 
from the jails into the pyramid for Zargon to feed on. 




In time, a strange cult arose that worshipped the monster asa god. 
The cult viewed the monster’s victims as religious sacrifices. The 
worship of the ancient gods of Cynidicea—Gorm, Usamigaras, 
and Madarua—was forsaken in favor of the worship of the monster 
Zargon. Finally, most of the citizens of Cynidicea worshipped it. 




The worshippers of Zargon began to look for strange pleasures. 
They sought oblivion in rare wines and bizarre drugs. Workers no 
longer repaired the irrigation ditches. Rich land turned into desert. 
The army lost its discipline. People outside the city rebelled, or 
moved away as chaos spread outward from Cynidicea. 




Later, barbarian warriors stormed over the walls and destroyed 
the city. The only people of Cynidicea who survived its destruction 
were those who had fled underground to the vast catacombs* 
under the city. There, led by Priests of Zargon, the Cynidiceans 
tried to rebuild the city. 




The surviving people based their new life around a huge under- 
ground lake fed by channels cut through solid rock. Built in the 
reign of King Alexander, the lake had been the original city’s water 
supply. On its shores, the people grew mushrooms and other 
edible fungi. They built houses using stones from the ruins above. 
The new underground city was much smaller than the ancient 
capital, but it was safer because it was hidden beneath the desert 
sands. Above, drifting sands covered the original city, and Cynidi- 
cea was lost in the vastness of the desert. 




The Cynidiceans 




Generation after generation of Cynidiceans have lived out their 
lives underground. Though still human, their skin has become very 
pale and their hair is bone-white. The Cynidiceans have developed 
infravision and, like goblins, attack with a penalty of -1 to hit when 
fighting in full daylight. 




Every Cynidicean wears a stylized mask, usually of an animal or 
human face. Some are made of wood, some of paper mache’, and 
some of metal. They are decorated with beads, bones, feathers, 
and jewels. Most Cynidiceans wear fancy clothes, flashy jewelry, 
andcarry short swords. Some paint their bodies with bright colors. 




The Cynidiceans are a dying race. Each new generation: is smaller 
than the last. Most Cynidiceans have forgotten that an outside 
world exists, living most of their lives in weird dreams. The times 
when they seem normal, tending their fields and animals, are 
becoming fewer and fewer as the dreams replace reality. Their 
unusual costumes and masks only strengthen their dream worlds. 
Typical Cynidicean encounters are given in Part 6. 




resus mech cepa 




EL NLS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




Factions of Cynidicea 


A few Cynidiceans are nearly normal. These Cynidiceans are 
trying to restore the worship of the old gods—Gorm, Usamigaras, 
and Madarua. They hope to stop the slow death of their society 
and regain the past glory of Cynidicea. 




The Brotherhood of Gorm. Their god, Gorm, is the god of war, 
storms, and justice. The followers of Gorm are male fighters of 
Lawful alignment. All wear golden masks of the face of Gorm, a 
long-haired, bearded man with a stern gaze. Each Brother also 
wears iron chain mail over a blue tunic. Under the armor, each has 
a small blue lightning bolt tattooed on his right shoulder. The 
Brothers believe in justice tempered by mercy. They worship 
Gorm on the fourth day of each week and consider lightning 
storms to be holy. 




The Magi of Usamigaras. This faction worships Usamigaras, 
the god of healing, messengers, and thieves. They are all Neutral 
magic-users, wearing silver masks of the face of Usamigaras, the 
smiling child. The Magi also carry silver daggers and wear rainbow- 
colored robes. 




The right palm of each is marked with small silver lines in the shape 
of a five-pointed star. The Magi are usually friendly toward clerics, 
thieves, elves, and magic-users, but look down upon fighters, 
dwarves, and halflings. Usamigaras is worshipped on certain days 
when the heavenly stars and planets are in the right patterns. The 
Magi record the positions of the stars and planets so that they will 
know when their holy days are. 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua. The Maidens worship Ma- 
darua, goddess of birth, death, and the changing seasons. They 
are Neutral female fighters. The Warrior Maidens wear bronze 
masks of Madarua, a beautiful woman. They also wear bronze 
chain mail armor over green tunics. Each Maiden has a small, 
sickle-shaped scar on the inside of her left wrist. Madarua has a 
special holy day at the beginning of each of the four seasons. 




The three factions do not get along well. Each faction is sure that 
only its members know the proper way to restore the lost great- 
ness of Cynidicea. Often, when members of different factions 
meet, they argue or fight. It is possible for the three factions to 
cooperate, but such cooperation is rare. 




The bickering between the three factions, and their attempts to 
restore sanity to Cynidicean society, give the DM the chance to 
add character interaction to the adventure. While the factions 
can be played as simple monsters with treasure, the DM and 
players can have a lot of fun with the plots and feuding of the 
factions. If this is done, the DM should plan in advance what the 
faction members may say or do if the party tries to talk, attack, or 
wait to see what the NPCs do first. It is important for the DM to 
avoidforcing the action toa pre-set conclusion—theactions of the 
players must be able to make a difference. 




If the player characters join one of the factions, it will be easier for 
them to get supplies and rest between adventures. All the factions 
may accept player characters as members. 




The Brotherhood of Gorm will take male fighters, male dwarves, 
male halflings, and male elves as full members. The Magi of Usa- 
migaras will take any magic-user, elf, cleric, or thief. The Warrior 
Maidens will take female fighters, female elves, female dwarves, 
and female halflings as full members. Also, any character may 
become a lesser member of a faction, if desired. Factions will not 
do as much for lesser members, and a lesser member can never 
become powerful within a faction. The DM should decide how 
much a faction will do for its members. 




The Priests of Zargonarea fourth faction. They are found mainly 




in areas outside the basic adventure. The Priests of Zargon serve 
the evil monster Zargon and control the underground city. 




ses 




YO 21 




Players’ Background 




Days ago, your group of adventurers joined a desert caravan. 
Halfway across the desert, a terrible sandstorm struck, separat- 
ing your party from the rest of the caravan. When the storm 
died down, you found you were alone. The caravan was no- 
where in sight. The desert was unrecognizable, as the dunes 
had been blown into new patterns. You were lost. 




Youheadedeast, the same way the caravan washeaded before 
the storm. Days passed. Your mounts died and you soon drank 
the last of your water. The end of the desert was not in sight. 




The second day after your water ran out, you stumbled upon a 
number of stone blocks sticking out of a sand dune. Investiga- 
tion showed that the sand covered the remains of a tall stone 
wall. On the other side of the stone wall was a ruined city. 




The stone blocks of the city had toppled and cracked with the 
passing of time. Sand had covered most of the buildings. The 
stones that remained uncovered had been scoured smooth by 




the blowing sands. 




In the center of the city towered a step-pyramid. It had five 
step-like tiers, each 20’ high. The bottom-most tier was almost 
completely covered with sand. On top of the highest tier were 
three 30’ tall statues. 




The statue on the left was of a strong, bearded man holding a 
balance* in one hand and a lightning bolt in the other. The 
middle statue was of a winged child with two snakes twined 
about its body. The child held awandin one hand anda handful 
of coins in the other. The statue on the right was of a beautiful 
woman. In her hands she held a sheaf of wheat and a sword. 




On the south side of the pyramid, a ramp with stairs led from the 
ground to the top of the highest tier. A quick search of the ruins 
revealed no source of foodor water, so you decided to climb the 
pyramid. In the side of the ramp, level with the floor of the top 
tier, you found a secret door .. 




PART 2: TIERS 1 AND 2 (Dungeon Level 1) 




The first dungeon level consists of Tiers 1 and 2 of the step 
pyramid. The first tier is room 1. The second tier includes rooms 
2-12. 




The pyramidis made oflarge, smooth stone blocks. The rooms are 
made of bare stone slabs, except where noted otherwise. Passage 
ceilings are usually 10’ high. Room ceilings are 15’ high. Most doors 
will be stone slabs that push inward to open. Doors will tend to 
close unless held, jammed, or spiked open. Unless otherwise stat- 
ed, the pyramid will be unlit. 




Remember that the characters are out of food and water. They 
must have these supplies soon or theywill die. In your descriptions, 
keep reminding the party that they are hungry, thirsty, and tired. 
This will help the players role play. 




Wandering Monsters 




Wandering monsters are encountered on arollof 1 on 1d6. Check 
for wandering monsters once every 2 game turns. Roll 1d8 for the 
monster encountered, or choose one. 




Wandering Monster Table: Level 1 




Die Wandering 
Roll Monster No AC HD hp #AT Damage Move Save ML AL 
1 Centipede, 


Giant 3 9 % 2 af poison 20° NM 7 N 
2 Cave Locust 5 4 2 9 1 1-20r1-4 —_20°/60’ FI 5 N 
3 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
4 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
5 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
6 Ferret, 


Giant 4 5 1+1 6 1 1-8 50° Fl 8 N 
7 Gnome 6 5 1 5 1 1-6 20° D1 8 L 
8 Goblin 7 6 1-1 4 1 1-6 20’ NM 7 C 


4 




Seen ANTAL EE LNT 




EOE RE ER OT 




(Sea TET DRT LNT Dy AS HST TS TA 




PTET TT EE I ET EAT EES HT 




Centipede, Giant. Giant centipedes are described in both edi- 
tions of the D&D Basic rules. Their bite is poisonous. 




Cave Locust. Cave locusts are 3’ long gray grasshoppers. They 
are immune to poison and yellow mold. If disturbed, cave locusts 
will panic and jump up to 60’ in a random direction (50% chance to 
jump toward the party). Anyone hit by a jumping locust takes 1-4 
points of damage. Cave locusts may bite for 1-2 points of damage. 
They also shriek when frightened, having a 20% chance to attract 
wandering monsters. If cornered, a cave locust will spit a brown 
goo up to 10’ (any target is AC 9 for this). A character hit by the goo 
must save vs. Poison or be too sick to do anything for 1 turn. Other 
characters coming within 5’ of the victim must save vs. Poison or 
also become violently ill for a turn. The victim has this effect until 
the goo is washed off. 




Cynidicean. Cynidiceans live underground in the Lost City. They 
are pale-skinned, white-haired humans with large eyes and infravi- 
sion. Cynidiceans wear masks and brightly colored robes. They 
will be acting out strange dreams when encountered (see the DM’s 




Background information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, usa- 
ble for all dungeon levels, are given under Cynidiceans in Part 6. 
The DM may use these encounters or make up his or her own. 




Ferret, Giant. Giant ferrets look like 3’ long weasels. They hunt 
giant rats underground. Ferrets are highly unpredictable and 
sometimes attack humans. 




Gnome. Gnomes are described in both editions of the D&D 
Basic rules. These gnomes have traveled underground to the Lost 
City through the tunnels and canals that empty into the under- 
ground lake (see the Underground City map). 




Goblin. Goblins are described in both editions of the D&D Basic 
rules. The goblins live in caves across the underground lake from 
the Cynidiceans (the Underground City map, O). The goblins 
serve Zargon (Part 5, room 100). If no Cynidiceans volunteer to 
go to Zargon, the goblins kidnap victims to feed the monster. 
Otherwise, the goblins do not usually harm Cynidiceans. After all, 
if the Cynidiceans died out, Zargon would start eating goblins! 




KEY TO TIER 1 




1. STATUE ROOM 




The slab of stone that hid the secret entrance to the pyramid is 


now held open by the dead body of ahobgoblin. The body has a 


large crossbow bolt sunk deep in its chest. The hobgoblin has 
been dead several weeks. 




There is nothing of interest around the body, and all its equipment 
has been taken. Beyond the stone slab is a 10’ wide passage, 
leading into the pyramid. The passage floor is covered with dust. 
Several pairs of footprints can be seen leading inward. In a niche* 
in the wall opposite the secret door, the party will see a large 
crossbow (la) pointed at them. The crossbow is not loaded. The 
crossbow trap was triggered by a hidden pressure plate in the floor 
just inside the secret door. The hobgoblin stepped on the plate, 
springing the trap. The secret door to the pyramid will swing shut 
behind the party unless they jam it open. It can be forced open 
normally. 




The highest tier of the pyramid is a single 40’ square room. The 
room smells old and musty. The dust on the floor has been 
disturbed, though no special details can be made out. Three 
huge bronze cylinders reach from the floor to the ceiling in the 
middle of the room. In the center of each cylinder, facing you at 
floor level, is a bronze door. Each door has abronzehandle that 
can be used to pull the door open. 




DM Note on Traps: Normally the characters won't find traps 
unless they are looking for them. Traps that work automatically 
can be avoided by taking special precautions. The DM rolls the 
dice whenever characters are looking for (or thieves are removing) 
traps. More information on traps can be found on page B22 of the 
D&D Basic rules. 




Trap 1b. The door to the room, as usual, will swing shut unless 
held or jammed open. In each corner of the room are small holes 
that release gas into the room. The gas trap is triggered by opening 
the door. The gas is odorless, tasteless, and invisible. An elf or thief 
has a 50% chance to hear the hiss of escaping gas. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES 




The gas will take one round to build up in the closed room before 
doing any damage. During this round the characters will feel a little 
dizzy. Each round after the first, the gas does 1 point of damage. 
When they start taking damage, the party will realize it is getting 
hard to breathe. Rags or iron spikesjammed into the holes will stop 
the gas from filling the room. If both the room’sdoor and the secret 
door are jammed open, the gas will escape without harming the 




party. 




The bronze cylinders are actually the hollow bases of the statues of 
the Cynidicean gods on top of the pyramid. The cylinders will 
sound hollow if tapped. The doors into the cylinders are also 
trapped (1c,1ld, and le). 




Trap Ic is in the west wall next to the base of the left statue 
(Gorm). Four darts will fire out of the wall when the door’s handle is 
pulled. The darts can only hit someone standing directly in front of 
the door. Roll to hit as if each dart was fired by a 1 HD monster. 
Each dart that hits does 1-3 points of damage. 




Trap 1d in the base of center statue (Usamigaras) is harmless. If 
the party searches this area, they will find dried blood in front of the 
cylinder. The trap was triggered by anearlier party. (Normally, two 
spears would shoot out when the door is opened. Each attack 
would be rolled as if a 1 HD monster was throwing the spears at 
characters standing directly in front of the door. Each character hit 
would take 1-6 points of damage. The DM may have this trap reset 
if the party leaves and comes back.) 




Trap le is a special hinged paving stone in front of the base of the 
right statue (Madarua). The stone will drop open when the door 
handle is pulled. Anyone standing in front of the door will fall to 
room 6 below and take 1-6 points of damage. 




The bronze cylinders are hollow. A ladder going both up anddown 
will be found inside each cylinder. Anyone climbing up a ladder will 
find that it goes up inside one of the statues on top of the pyramid. 
Each statue has a special speaking tube which allowed its priests to 
speak the god’s will. The character will also see anumber of levers. 
These levers can be used to move parts of the statue (arms, head, 
eyes, and so on). A character climbing down any ladder will enter 
room 6. 




REINCARHATED e THE LOST City 




BETS 




Yi24 




KEY TO TIER 2 




2. STORAGE ROOM 




This room contains rotting bales of what might be cloth, and 
dusty crates. The room smells like it has been closed off for a 




long time. 
The room is an old storage room that has long been abandoned. 
The food once in the crates, and the clothing once in the bales, is 
now rotted and worthless. Otherwise, the room is empty. 




3. SECRET ROOM 




Inside this room you see seven bird-like creatures with long 
beaks like tubes. A faint glitter catches your eye fromthe center 
of the room as the bird-like creatures fly toward you. 




The attacking bird-like creatures are stirges (AC 7; HD 1*; hp 4 
each; MV 60’; #AT 1; D 1-3; Save F1; ML 9; AL N). A flying stirge 
gains a bonus of +2 to hit due to its speed. 




Once a stirge’s attack hits, its beak attaches to the victim. The 
stirge sucks blood for an automatic 1-3 points of damage every 
round until either the victim or the stirge is dead. 




The glitter comes from four gems lying in a pile of dust. The gems 
are worth 100 gp, 100 gp, 500 gp, and 1000 gp. The room also has a 
small hole high in the north wall. The stirges fly through the hole 
when they go out hunting at night. 




4. PRIEST'S QUARTERS 




The room is sparsely furnished with rotting furniture. This 
includes a bed, a desk, a chest, a writing table with wooden 
chair, and a wooden holy symbol shaped like a lightning bolt. All 




of the furniture is covered witha thick layer of dust. On the floor 
lies the body of adead hobgoblin. The body looks several weeks 
dead. Its left arm is swollen and discolored. 




This room was once the quarters of a high priest of the Brother- 
hood of Gorm. The hobgoblin was killed by a killer bee from room 
7. His body has a full water bottle and a purse with 135 sp and 40 gp 
in it. Otherwise the room is empty. 




5. FIREWORKS STOREROOM 




This room seems drier than the rest of the pyramid. In the 
center of the room are a half dozen small crates. Seated on the 




crates are nearly a dozen 1’ tall winged people. They are talking 
a strange musical language and laughing merrily. 




These small winged people are sprites (AC 5; HD 1/2; hp 3 each; 
MV 20, fly 60’; #AT 1; Dcurse; SaveE1;ML 7; ALN). There are 10 
ofthem. They will be friendly and chatter merrily if approached ina 
friendly manner. They are interested in everything, but nothing 
holds their attention long. They will not join the party, but the DM 
may use them to hint about what lies ahead. If attacked, five sprites 
acting together can cast one curse spell. The curse will take the 
form of a magical practical joke (like suddenly making a fighter’s 
armor turn into a pile of rust, or gluing a character’s boots to the 
floor). The sprites will cast one or two curses, then fly away 
through a 1’ X 1’ concealed door high in the northeast wall. If 
pursued, they will try to escape by flying over the green slime in 
room 8, 




The crates contain fireworks packed in sawdust. There is only a 1 
in 1d6 chance that a crate of fireworks is still usable after all this 
time. Any usable crate of fireworks is worth 100 gp resale value. 
The ancient priests of Cynidicea used the fireworks to help fake 
“miracles.” If the players decide to keep the fireworks, a usable 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMNATED e THE LOST City 




crate contains 1-6 charges of flash powder, 2-8 roman candles, 1-4 
skyrockets, and 3-12 strings of small firecrackers. The DM should 
only allow these firecrackers to make a lot of smoke, bright lights, 
and noise. The firecrackers should not do any damage or cause 
blindness. 




5a. POTTERY JARS 




These three pottery jars are 4’ tall. The first contains sand. The 
others, which used to store water, are now dry and empty. The 
contents of the jars were to be used if a fire broke out in the 
fireworks room. 




6. SPECIAL STOREROOM 




A 10’ radius circle at the foot of each ladderis lit by aglowing, 2’ 
long beetle. Each beetle has three glowing spots. 




The three beetles are fire beetles (AC 4; HD 1+2; hp 6 each; 
MV 40’; #AT 1; D 2-8; Save F1; ML 7; AL N). Each beetle has three 
glands that glow and give off light for a 10’ radius. The glands will 
continue to glow for 1-6 days after they are removed. The beetles 
are hungry and will attack if disturbed. 




This room holds spare parts for the machinery inside the statues. 
There are also several large, covered, clay pots. These pots held oil 
tolubricate the machinery. The oil has almost evaporated over the 
centuries, even through the pots were sealed. The party can 
recover 6 flasks of oil that will burn poorly and make thick clouds of 
smoke if lit. It will take 2 turns to recover all the oil. There is also a 
small foundry here for fixing broken statue parts. It has a forge, an 
anvil, tongs, hammers, and so on. 




7. TREASURE ROOM 




In the center of the room you see a 10’ tall cage. In the bottom of 
the cage is a pile of coins and gems. Hanging from the top of the 
cage is a giant beehive. Several large, 1’ long bees are buzzing 




around the room. Themeshof the cage is wide enough for them 
to fly through. There is also a 1’ square hole high in the south 
wall. 




The locked cage holds the treasure of the Brotherhood of Gorm 
(rooms 11 and 12). The treasure is guarded by 5killerbees (AC 7; 
HD 1/2*; hp 2 each; MV 50’; #AT 1; D 1-3+ special; Save F1; ML9; 
ALN) flying around the room. The killer bees have learned that 
persons wearing a mask of Gorm are friendly. They will not attack 
anyone wearing the mask of Gorm unless attacked first. 




The killer bees will automatically attack any other persons who go 
into the room. If the bee attack is successful, the stung victim must 
save vs. Poison or die. The bee will die after stinging. Even charac- 
ters who save must take 1 round toremove the stinger. Otherwise 
the stinger will continue to work its way into the victim doing 1 
point of damage per round. 




The treasure lying on the bottom of the cage is 2000 sp, 500 gp, 2 
gems each worth 100 gp and one piece of jewelry worth 700 gp. 




The bees inside the hive will not attack the party unless the hive 
itself is attacked. Inside the hive are 4 more bees with 1hit die each 
(4hp), anda 2 hit die queen bee (9 hp). The queen, unlike all other 
killer bees, can sting repeatedly without dying. A special kind of 
honey is found inside the beehive. If eaten, the honey acts as one 
half-strength potion of healing, curing 1-4 points of damage. All the 
honey in the hive is needed to cure one character of 1-4 points of 
damage. 




8. ABANDONED ROOM 




The entire floor of this room is covered with green, oozing 
slime. Otherwise the room appears to be empty. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 
eR ANTHRO ET: wR . aa a nee eRe SARTRE Ln TIRES: ae ROP ATION eR 




The green oozing slime is green slime (AC n/a; HD 2*; hp 9; MV 1’; 
#AT 1; D special; Save F1; ML 12; ALN). Green slime canonlybe 
hurt by fire or cold. It dissolves wood and metal in 6 rounds. If it 
touches flesh, it will turn the victim to green slime in 1-4 rounds 
after the first 6 rounds. Green slime can be burned off, but this 
does, 1/2 damage to the slime and 1/2 damage to the character. 




9. ABANDONED PRIEST’S QUARTERS 




The room contains an old bed, writing table, chair, and a chest. 
From the looks of the furniture, the quarters have been long 
abandoned. From behind the bed come scuffling sounds. Sud- 
denly you see the head of a large, pale blue lizard with orange 
spots burst suddenly into view. 




The lizard is aGecko (AC 5; HD 3+1; hp 15; MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
Save F2; AL N). It is munching on the body of an unfortunate 
Cynidicean. If the party enters the room without looking up, they 
will be surprised by a second Gecko that drops down from the 
ceiling (hp 12). The mask worn by the Cynidicean is of some 
birdlike creature. It is inlaid with gold and worth 80 gp. 




10. ABANDONED PRIEST’S QUARTERS 




This room might once have been the quarters of a cleric, but it 
looks like it has been abandoned for a long time. It contains 




musty, dust-covered furniture: asleeping pallet*, a writing desk 
with a wooden stool, a chest, and a wooden holy symbol that 
looks like a balance. 




The room holds nothing valuable. 
11. BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 




The room contains three double bunk beds. Five men are 
seated on the lower bunks talking. Each man wears iron chain 
mail over a blue tunic. All wear steel helmets, and each man’s 




face is covered bya golden mask. All their masks are the same. 
They show a long-haired, bearded man with a stern gaze. 




Thefive men belong to the Brotherhood of Gorm (AC 5; F1;hp5 
each; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1; ML 8; AL L). The Brother- 
hood of Gorm controls rooms 11, 12, and 24. 




If the party does not attack, the men may ask them to join the 
Brotherhood. The DM may decide this or roll 2d6. A roll of 9-12 
means the party willbe asked to join. A roll of 6-8 means the party 
members may join, but will not be asked. A roll of 2-5 means the 
Brothers will assume the characters are thieves or spies and attack 
or drive them away. Only male fighters, dwarves, halflings, and 
elves of Lawful alignment may become full members, but any 
character may become a lesser member. Characters who want to 
join the Brotherhood will be taken to room 12. 




If fighting starts, the Brothers of Gorm in room 12 will hear the 
fighting and rush to help their fellow Brothers. 




This room contains the Brothers’ equipment, including food and 
water. The only treasure is the Brothers’ masks, which are worth 
100 gp each. 




lla. STATUE OF GORM 




At the end of thecorridor you see a glittering statue. The statue 
appears to be a smaller version of the bearded man wielding a 
lightning bolt you saw on top of the pyramid. 




The statue may appear at first to be made of gold. Actually it is a 
wooden statue painted with golden paint. It is man-sized and firmly 
set into a heavy stone base. This statue of Gorm has no gp value. 




ENE TRE AEP EE AV — 




12.GRAND MASTER OF THE BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 




The room has three double bunk beds along the walls. Six men 
stand around the room talking. All wear chain mail armor over 
blue tunics. Each man also wears a steel helmet and a golden 
mask. The masks look like a long-haired, bearded man with a 
stern gaze. 




Five of the men are Brothers of Gorm (AC 5; F1; hp 5 each; MV 20’; 
#AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1; ML 8; AL L). The tallest, oldest man is 
Kanadius, the Grand Master of the Brotherhood of Gorm (AC 4; 
F3; hp 25; #AT 1 at +1; D 1-8 +1; Save F3; ALL; S 14,112, W 9, 
D 12, C 10, Ch 12). He wears a fancier helmet. He also gives all 
Brothers a morale of 9 when they are with him. 




Kanadius is stern-looking but basically kindly. He prefers to out- 
manuver opponents, but is brave if fighting is necessary. He is 
somewhat absent-minded with unimportant details, but not with 
major ones. He leads his men rather than orders them. Under his 
leadership, morale is high. 




If the party attacks: the Brothers in room 11 will rush to the aid 
of their fellow Brothers. 




There is a secret trapdoor behind one of the beds in the southeast 
corner of the room. If the party attacks and is winning, Kanadius 
may try to escape through this door. It leads down into the secret 
chamber next to room 24 on Tier 3. Unless their morale fails, the 
Brothers will fight to help Kanadius escape. 




If Kanadius is attacked and escapes, the DM may create a special 
encounter for later in the adventure. The encounter would be with 
Kanadius and a dozen Brothers of Gorm who try to revenge their 
fellows. The special encounter could replace a wandering monster 
encounter, or it could happen at some place the DM chooses. 




This area contains the equipment of the Brothers, including food 
and water. The Brothers’ masks are worth 100 gp and Kanadius’ 
fancy helmet is a helm of telepathy, usable three times each day. 




If the party does not attack: the Brothers in this room may ask 
them to join (see room 11). This happens if the DM rolls a 9-12 on 
2d6. If this is the first time the party has met the Brothers, the 
Brothers may become suspicious and attack (a 2d6 roll of 2-5). 
They stay neutral on a roll of 6-8. 




Before anycharacters actually join, Kanadius will secretly test their 
sincerity with the helm of telepathy. As DM, ask the player 
whether his or her character is sincere. Make it clear that you, as 
DM, may forbid the character to take certain actions later that go 
against what the player decides now. Then ask for the player’s 
decision. 




Only male fighters, dwarves, halflings, and elves of Lawful align- 
ment may become full members of the Brotherhood of Gorm. 
They will be taken to room 24 on Tier 3 for a simple initiation 
ceremony run by Kanadius. Other characters, if accepted as lesser 
members, will be given a necklace with a small golden mask of 
Gorm attached (worth 20 gp). 




Regular members will be given tunics, masks, and any normal 
armor or weapons they might need. The Brotherhood has another 
stronghold deep in the underground city. Extra masks and neckla- 
ces are stored there. It will take about half a day for a messenger to 
go to the stronghold and return with extra masks and necklaces. 
While the party waits, the Brothers of Gorm will aid the party 
against wandering monsters. The DM may also treat the Brother- 
hood’s rooms as “safe” (free from wandering monsters). The party 
can rest, rememorize spells, and so on if they stay long enough. 




PART 3: TIERS 3 AND 4 (Dungeon Level 2) 




Thesecondlevelofthe dungeon consists of Tier 3 and Tier 4 of the 
pyramid. Tier 3 includes rooms 13-24. The third tier contains the 
headquarters for the Brotherhood of Gorm, the Magi of Usamiga- 
ras, and the Warrior Maidens of Madarua. These can become 
“safe” areas for characters who join these groups. Tier 4 includes 
rooms 25-40. It holds the burial chambers of King Alexander, 
Queen Zenobiaand many important court officials from their time. 




The Revolving Passage. The central area is the most unusual 
feature of the third tier. It houses a passage on a turntable. A 
machine-like system of weights and counter-weights makes the 
Passage turn. 




On the wall inside each end of the revolving passage is a row of 
eight buttons. They match the buttons in the halls. When one of 




the inside buttons is pressed, that end of the passage will swing 
clockwise to line up with the proper hall. 




A door to the centralarea will open only if the revolving passage is 
lined up with it. Next to each door to the revolving passageway is a 
button with a symbol on it. When the button is pressed, the 
passage swings clockwise to line up with the door, making faint 
grinding noises. If the passage is = clteady lined up with the door, 
nothing happens. 




Wandering Monsters 




Wandering monsters are encountered on aroll of 1 on 1d6. Check 
for wandering monsters once every 2 game turns. Roll 1d8 for the 
monster encountered, or choose one. 




Wandering Monster Table: Level 2 




Die Wandering 
Roll Monster No AC HD hp #AT Damage MV Save ML AL 
1 Bat, Giant 7 6 2 9 1 1-4 60° Fl 8 N 
2 Brotherhood 


of Gorm 8 5 1 5 i 1-8 20’ Fl 8 Iy 
3 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
4 Hobgoblin 6 6 1+1 6 1 1-8 30’ Fl 8 Cc 
5 Magi of 


Usamigaras 5 9 1 3 1 1-4 40’ M1 8 N 
6 Rock Baboon 6 6 2 9 2 1-6/1-3 40° F2 8 
7 Snake, Spit- 


ting Cobra 3 7 1* 5 1 1-3 30’ Fl 7, N 


+poison 


8 Warrior Maidens 


of Madarua 8 5 1 5 1 1-8 20’ Fl 8 N 




Bat, Giant. Giant bats “see” by echo-location (like radar). One of 
the giant bats encountered is a giant vampire bat. Any character 
bitten by this bat must save vs. Paralysis or fall unconscious for 
1-10 rounds. Any character killed by the bite of a giant vampire bat 
must save vs. Spells or become an undead creature 24 hours after 
death. The DM chooses which undead creature the victim will 
become. 




Brotherhood of Gorm. This encounter will be with a party of the 
Brothers of Gorm traveling to their shrine in room 24. For more 
details about the Brothers see rooms 11 and 12. 




Cynidicean. See the encounters given under “Cynidicean’ in Part 
6: New Monsters or make up new ones. 




Hobgoblin. Hobgoblins are described in both editions of the 
D&D Basic rules. These are ona mission for the Priests of Zargon 
(capturing prisoners, raiding another faction, or so on). 




Magi of Usamigaras. This is a party of Magi traveling to their 
shrine in room 14. For more details about the Magi, see room 14. 




Rock Baboon. Rock baboons are larger, more intelligent versions 
of normal baboons. They will eat anything, but prefer meat. Rock 
baboons do not make tools but use bones or branches as clubs. 
They are ferocious and have vicious tempers. These are hunting 
for food. 




Snake, Spitting Cobra. A spitting cobrais a 3’ long grayish-white 
snake that can squirt astream of venom a distance of 6.’ It aims for 
its victim’s eyes. If the venom hits, the victim must save vs. Poison 
or be blinded. While the snake will usually spit its venom, it may 
bite instead. If a victim is bitten, he or she must save vs. Poison or 




die. 




Note on Blindness. In the D&D Basic rules, a blinded character 
cannot attack (the DM may allow attacks at -4). The DM may 
create special ways to cure blindness. For example, the DM might 
allow washing the victim’s eyes with holy water, then casting a 
cure light wounds spell on the victim. The cure spell would not 
restore any lost hit points if it was used to heal blindness. Instead of 
being immediately cured, sight might return in 1-6 turns. 




ARLENE TATE SS RES 




Warrior Maidens of Madarua. This party of Warrior Maidens is KEY TO TIER 3 
traveling to their shrine in room 21. For more details about the 
Warrior Maidens, see room 23. 




DM's Note: The outcome of an encounter with one of the three 13. ABANDONED CEREMONIAL CHAMBER 
factions often depends on previous encounters. For example, 
characters who have joined the Brotherhood of Gorm, and are 




wearing its masks or necklaces, will likely find a group of Warrior This room is a ruined chapel of some kind. Tattered tapestries 
Maidens unfriendly, if not openly hostile. hang from the walls. A dusty altar along the north wall is 
REVOLVING PASSAGEWAY SYMBOLS covered with a rotted altar cloth. The candlesticks, offering 
Door Symbol bowl, and holy symbol on the altar are carved out of wood. The 
holy symbol looks like an eye. Next to the altar you see a6’ long 


lizard with wide flaps of skin between its legs. 




S 




The giant lizard is a Draco (AC 5; HD 4+2; hp 20; MV 40,’ fly 70’; 
#AT 1; D 1-10; Save F3; ML 7; AL N). Behind the altar is the 
remains of a human thief. The body has a full canteen and a sack 
containing 400 gp and 2 gems, each worth 100 gp. The candle- 
sticks, bowl and holy symbol are made from rare teakwood. They 
are worth 50 gp, 25 gp, and 25 gp respectively. 




14. THE MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 




This corridor has been painted black with tiny white stars to 




resemble the night sky. The door on the north wall to chamber 14a 
is iron and has a star carved into it. If the party opens the door, a 
W bell will begin to ring. 




14a. THE CHAMBER OF THE MAGI 




Along the north and west walls of this room hangs a large 
tapestry showing the major constellations. You have interrupt- 
eda religious service. Thirteen figures in rainbow-colored robes 
and silver masks stand in front of astone, star-shaped altar. The 
masks match the face of the middle statue on the pyramid, the 
winged child. The center-most figure of the group wears a silver 
crown. 




Sw — 




NW 




The worshippers are the Magi of Usamigaras (AC 9; M1; hp 3 each; 
MV 40°; #AT 1; D 1-4; Save M1; ML8; AL N). Twelve of them are 
first level magic-users. The one wearing the silver crown is Auriga 
Sirkinos, Chief Mage of Usamigaras (AC 9; M3; hp 10; MV 40’; 
#AT 1;D 1-4;S 9,118, W 10, D 12, C 10, Ch 15). Each Mage has 
silver lines forming a small star symbol on the palm of his or her 




right hand. 




tries his best to hide this under a pleasant manner. While he will 
welcome the party, he will also do his best to insure that he, 
personally, retains the most power in the cult. However, if it comes 
to a choice between the Magi of Usamigaras or the personal power 
of Auriga Sirkinos, he will choose personal power. 




If the party attacks: the twelve first level magic-users each have a 
different spell. Each has one of the twelve first level spells listed in 
the D&D Basic rules: charm person, detect magic, floating 
disc, hold portal, light, magic missile, protection from evil, 
read languages, readmagic, shield, sleep, and ventriloquism. 
Auriga Sirkinos has the spells detect magic, hold portal, and 
phantasmal force. Those with attack spells will cast them at the 
party. Those with defensive spells will cast them. All will attack the 
party hand-to-hand, though Auriga will run through the door and 
cast hold portal on it if things are going badly. 




E 




SE 




Ses FEST, 




Stout Auriga Sirkinos appears to be jolly and fun-loving. His mirth 
actually hides a ruthless personality. He is a fanatic who will do 
a anything to promote the cult of Usamigaras and his own power. He 




INMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




aE PT ASD 




Hidden inside the stone altar is a secret compartment. It is protect- 
ed by a poison needle trap (save vs. Poison or die). Anyone who 
tries to open the compartment without finding and removing the 
trap will trigger it. Inside the compartment is a mace +1 anda 
wand of magic detection with 5 charges. The silver masks are 
worth 20 gp each and the crown is worth 200 gp. Each magic-user 
also has a silver dagger worth 30 gp. 




If the party doesn’t attack: they may learn that the Magi of 
Usamigaras is another cult trying to restore the lost glory of 
Cynidicea. All current members are Cynidiceans, but the Magi are 
willing to let outsiders join. The DM can decide this or roll 2d6. Ona 
roll of 9-12 the party members will be asked to join. On a roll of 6-8 
the party members may join, but will not be asked to. On a roll of 
2-5 the party will be attacked or driven off as enemies or spies from 
one of the other cults. Subtract 3 from the roll if the party shows 
any signs of belonging to one of the other groups (such as wearing a 
mask of Gorm). Add 2 to the roll if the party can convince the Magi 
that the party has defeated members of another cult. 




Only magic-users, elves, thieves, and clerics may become full 
members. Other classes may only become lesser members. Full 
members will be initiated by placing their right hand on the center 
of the altar, palm down. They then recite the pledge: “I, (charac- 
ter’s name), do hereby pledge to serve and obey the great Usamig- 
aras.” When he or she says the name “Usamigaras,” a five-pointed 
star will be magically burned into the character’s palm. Full 
members will be given silver masks, daggers, and rainbow-colored 
robes. 




Lesser members will not be initiated, but will be given a silver ring 
carved with Usamigaras’s face. The robes, masks, daggers, and 
rings are kept in a stronghold in the underground city. It will take 
about half a day for them to be fetched. While the party waits, the 
Magi will aid them against wandering monsters, and will provide 
food and drink. The DM may make this a “safe” area. 




15. QUARTERS FOR THE MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 




This room contains six double bunkbeds. At the foot of each 
bunkbed are two wooden chests. The room looks clean and 
well kept. 




The wooden chests are foot lockers. Theycontain spare robes and 
various personal belongings, but nothing of great value. The first 
level Magi in room 14 stay here when away from their faction’s Lost 
City stronghold. 




16. QUARTERS FOR THE CHIEF MAGE OF USAMIGARAS 




This is a comfortable-looking bedroom that shows signs of | 
recent occupation. Chained to the foot of the bed is a gray wolf. 
The wolf growls when the door is opened. | 
The wolf (AC 7; HD 2+2; hp 11; MV 60’; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save F1; 
ML6; ALN) was captured asa cub and has been trained to actasa 
watch dog. It is guarding the personal funds of Auriga Sirkinos: 


2500 sp and 200 gp kept in a locked metal chest under the bed. 




17. ABANDONED STOREROOM 




This room is filled with shelves. Most of these are empty, but 
some contain old crates. The shelves are covered with dust and 
a vile-looking yellow fungus that grows in large, thick clusters. 




Theyellowfungus is yellow mold (AC n/a; HD 2 per 10square feet; 
hp 9 per 10 square feet; MV 0; #AT 1; D 1-6 +spores; Save F2; ML 
n/a; AL N). Themoldcovers shelves along all four walls. Each 10° 
square of the room has 2HD worth of mold covering it. Hence, 
there are six separate sections of mold, each with 9 hp. Yellow 
mold can only be killed by fire. If it is touched, there is a 50% chance 




10 




the mold will shoot out a 10’X 10’X 10’ cloud of spores. Anyone 
caught in the cloud takes 1-6 points of damage and must save vs. 
Death Ray or choke to death within 6 rounds. There is nothing of 
value in the crates. 




17a. WATER TRAP 




When a human-sized character crosses the room, the DM rolls 
1d6. Ona roll of 1 or 2, the trap is sprung. Both doors slam shut and 
water pours into the 10’ X 10’ area from vents high up in the walls. 
Unless the trapped character forces openadoor within three tries, 
or thinks of some way to breathe, he or she will drown. 




Once the room fills with water, concealed drains in the floor open. 
The water drains out, and the trap automatically resets. If a charac- 
ter opens the door to room 18 while the water is pouring in, the 
water will rush into room 18. The water will overturn the basket 
and free the pit vipers inside it (see room 18), then disappear down 
concealed drains. 




18. SECRET ROOM 




| This room looks empty except for a large wicker basket in the 
middle of the room. 




Coiled atop the pile of treasure in the basket are two 5’ long pit 
vipers (AC 6; HD 2*; hp 9 each; MV 30’; #AT 2; D 1-4 + poison, 
Save F1; ML 7; AL N). The bite of these snakes is poisonous. Pit 
vipers always attack first, due to their quickness. No initiative roll is 
needed. The wicker basket contains 3000 sp and 5 gems (10 gp, 
50 gp, 100 gp, 100 gp, and 500 gp). 




19. SHIFTING WALL 




| At the end of this short corridor is an 8’ tall bronze statue of a 


winged child with two snakes twined around its body. It holds a 
wand in one hand and a handful of coins in the other. The statue 
looks firmly connected to the wall. 




This statue of Usamigaras is hollow and hides a shifting wall. If the 
wandis pulled left, the wall shifts westward to the end of the hall. It 
will block the last 10’ section of the hall. Thewall will staythere for 3 
turns, then move back to its original position. 




If the wand is pulled right, the statue will breathe out a cloud of 
choking gas. The gas cloud covers the 30’ length of the corridor. 
Anyone who stays in the area will take 1 point of damage per round 
from the gas. 




The gas will disappear after 2 turns (120 rounds). There is only one 




gas charge in the statue (the Magi recharge the statue when 
necessary). 




19a. STOREROOM 




The room is filled with crates and barrels. Four large brown 
beetles, each about 3’ long, are breaking into them. 




The beetles are oil beetles (AC 4; HD 2*; hp 9; MV 40’; #AT 1 + oil; 
D 1-6; Save F1; ML 8; ALN). Oil beetles can squirt an oily fluid at 
one victim up to 5’ away. If the oil hits, it raises painful blisters, 
causing the victim to fight with a penalty of -2 on his or her “to hit” 
rolls until a cure light wounds spell is used or until 24 hours have 
passed. If the spell is used to cure the blisters, it will not also cure 
points of damage. Oil beetles also have a bite attack. 




The crates are filled with dried food and the casks are filled with 
wine. This food was recently stored here by the Magi of Usamiga- 
ras and is edible. As long as the crates and casks have not been 
broken open by the beetles, the foodand wine will be good, even if 
the crate or barrel has been sprayed with the beetles’ oil. 




oS SSS 




es 




SS STN TL LL TT TT NANT 




a OT A ET EN RT ae 




an ETE SB TH NT 




20. ABANDONED CEREMONIAL CHAMBER 




This room looks like a ruined chapel. It has been looted and | 
deliberately wrecked. The stone altar has been smashed, and | 
no ceremonial equipment can be seen. The word “Zargon” has | 
been scrawled on one wall in large letters. | 




nce ag meee esa 




This ceremonial chamber of the old gods of Cynidicea was 
wrecked by the followers of Zargon centuries ago. Except for the 
wreckage, the room is empty. 




20a. ENTRANCE TO TIER 4 




A 20’ long section of the floor in the southern part of the room has 
been hinged to swing down to the west when anyone steps on it. It 
swings slowly down to rest against a ramp in room 38. The hinged 
floor section is the entrance to Tier 4. Characters can walk down 
the floor section into room 38. 




uf 




WAALS 




LF SSR TT SEES TEE 




11 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINC 




Sepa EERE 




21. ARCH OF THE WARRIOR MAIDENS 




You see two 10’ tall statues of women fighters. The fighters 
wear masks with the face of the female statue on top of the 
pyramid. The two statues stand with spears outstretched to 
form an arch. The only way down the corridor appears to be in | 
single file under the crossed spears. | 




Just beyond the arch formed by the spears is a hidden pressure 
plate in the floor. Each time someone steps on the plate, a hidden 
chime rings in room 23. The chime warns the Warrior Maidens 
that someone is approaching the shrine and reveals howmany are 
in the party. 




21a. THE CHAMBER OF MADARUA 
The door to this room is locked. If the party cannot unlock the 




door, it can be battered down in 1 turn. If the door is battered 
down, the Warrior Maidens in room 23 will come to investigate. 




Near the northeast corner of this room is an altar covered witha 
green and white cloth. On the altar sits a 3’ tall statue of a 
woman holding a sword and a sheaf of wheat. To each side of 
the statue burns a large white candle. In front of the altar itself, 
incense burns in three small braziers*. White drapes hangon all 
the walls and the floor is covered by a green carpet. The room is 
dust-free and has been scrubbed clean. Except for the cere- 
monial equipment, the room appears empty. 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua keep their shrine clean, with 
candles and incense burning all year round. From tiny holes in the 
wall, hidden by the white cloth hanging, the Warrior Maidens in 
room 23 can hear any loud noises. The sound carries through 
room 22, which also has been fitted with listening holes. The 
Warrior Maidens will investigate any loud noises. If any party 
member has desecrated* the shrine, the Warrior Maidens will 
attack. 




22. TREASURE ROOM OF THE WARRIOR MAIDENS OF 
MADARUA 




The room appears to be empty except for a large stone vault in : 
the middle of the east wall. The vault has a keyhole. It looks like 
the stone slabs that make up the vault are too heavy to be 




moved. | 
S| 




The stone vault contains the treasure of the Warrior Maidens. It is 
trapped. Any character standing in front of the keyhole who tries 
to open the vault and fails will be hit by a large stone block that falls 
from the ceiling. The stone block will not fall if the key is used or the 
lock is successfully picked. The stone block does 2-12 points of 
damage. The Warrior Maidens in room 23 will hear any loud noises 
in this room (see room 21a). The treasure of the Warrior Maidens 
of Madarua is 600 ep, 1000 gp, and 300 pp. 




23. WARRIOR MAIDENS OF MADARUA 




Ten women are seated around a table. They all wear bronze 
chain mail over green tunics. Each woman's face is covered bya 
bronze mask of the face of the woman whose statue is atop the 
pyramid. 




The women are all Warrior Maidens of Madarua. Seven are Ist 
level fighters (AC 5; F1; hp 5 each; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1; 
ML8; ALN). Two are 2nd level (AC 5; hp 9; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
Save F2). The leader of the Warrior Maidens is Pandora, Mada- 
rua’s Champion, the tallest and oldest of the women (ACS; F3; 
hp 20; MV 20’; #AT 1 at +3; D 1-8+3; ALN; S 17,1 12, W 11, D 12, 
C 15, Ch 14). She wields a sword +1, has a+2 bonus in combat 
from Strength, and raises the morale of the Warrior Maidens to 9. 
She also carries the key to the treasure vault in room 22. 




ARNATED e THE LOST City 




yi 
camer Reta 




Pandora prides herself on being a simple fighter. She claims that 
swift action is the best solution to any problem. “When in doubt, 
attack” she often says. Actually she is more subtle than she leads 
people to believe. She always keeps track of the odds. While she 
often uses force to settle problems, she tries to make sure that the 
odds are with her. She raises the morale of any Warrior Maidens 
she is with to 9. 




If the party doesn’t attack: they may find that the Warrior 
Maidens of Madarua are another group trying to restore the lost 
glories of Cynidicea. All the current members are Cynidicean 
female fighters, but they are willing to take outsiders as members. 
The DM may decide or roll 2d6. On a roll of 9-12 party members will 
be asked to join. On a roll of 6-8 the party may join, but will not be 
asked. On a roll of 2-5, the party will be attacked or driven off as 
enemies and spies. Subtract 3 from the roll if any characters show 
signs of belonging to another group. Add 2 to the roll if the party 
proves that they have defeated another cult. 




Female fighters, female dwarves, female halflings, and female elves 
can become full members of the Warrior Maidens of Madarua. All 
other characters may only become lesser members. 




Characters wanting to become full members will undergo a short 
initiation ceremony. The character draws her sword and pricks 
one of her fingers with it. She smears the blood from her finger on 
the sword blade. The sword is then placed on the altar of Madarua. 
The character swears to uphold the honor of Madarua, even with 
her own blood if necessary. Finally, a small sickle is branded on the 
inside of the initiate’s left wrist. Full members will be given bronze 
masks and green robes. 




Lesser members will not be initiated. They will be given a bronze 
bracelet showing Madarua’s face. The bracelets, robes, and masks 
are kept in a stronghold in the underground city. It will take about 
half a day for them to be fetched. While the party waits, the Warrior 
Maidens will aid them against wandering monsters. Food and drink 
will be provided, and this may be a “safe” area. 




24. DOOR TRAP 




You see an iron door at the end of the corridor. The door has 
three lightning bolts engraved on it. 




The door guards the ceremonial chamber of Gorm (room 24a). 
When anyone comes within 10’ of the door, it glows with a crack- 
ling blue light. The door is locked. Once the words “By the great 
god Gorm” are spoken, the door stops glowing and it is safe to 
enter. Anyone who touches the door without saying the proper 
words automatically takes 1-4 points of electrical damage. The 
door lock can be picked by a thief willing to take damage while 
trying to pick the lock. 




24a. THE CEREMONIAL CHAMBERS OF GORM 




The walls, ceiling, and floor of this room have been painted sky 
blue. A golden marble altar, surrounded by golden candle- 
holders and braziers, rests along the middle of the east wall. On 
top of the altar is asmall stone statue of a bearded man throwing 
a lightning bolt. Next to the statue rests a golden bowl. 




These are the ceremonial chambers of Gorm. No non-members 
are allowed in this room. New members of the Brotherhood are 
initiated here. The initiation is simple. The character dresses in a 
white robe and ritually washes his hands in the bowl (which con- 
tains water). He draws his weapon and kneels before Gorm’saltar. 
He then swears, in Law, to uphold the ideals of the Brotherhood 
and to promote the worship of Gorm. Finally, the new member 
receives a tattoo of a blue lightning bolt on his right shoulder. 




The secret door in the west wall conceals a ladder up to room 12 on 
Tier 2. 




s pismo ecm era 




KEY TO TIER 4 




Tier 4 holds the burial chambers of King Alexander, Queen Zeno- 
bia, and major nobles, clerics, and others who lived during their 
reign. 




25. NOBLEMAN’S BURIAL ROOM 




This room has scenes of warfare painted on the walls. It also has 
a large wooden sarcophagus” standing upright along the south 
wall. Painted on the outside of the sarcophagus is the picture of 
a warrior in armor. Squatting on each side of the sarcophagus is 
a large ape with white fur. 




These two creatures are white apes (AC 6; HD 4; hp 18 each; 
MV 40°; #AT 2; D 1-4/1-4; Save F2; ML 7; ALN). The white apes 
have made this room their lair. When the room door is opened, the 
apes will beat their chests and threaten the party. If their threats 
are ignored, they will attack. 




White apes sometimes throw rocks for 1d6 points of damage each. 
These have gathered a plentiful supply of rocks to defend their lair. 




Inside the sarcophagus is a mummified body wearing full plate 
armor and holding a sword. The sword is a magical sword + 1. 




25a. GHOSTLY HAUNTS 




As you walk down the corridor, the shimmering, ghostlike 
figures of a man and a woman appear before you. They are 
dressed in costly clothing, and both wear golden crowns. The 
man raises his hand and gestures for you to stop. 


“Go no further,” he warns, “lest the curse of King Alexander 
overtake you!” 




“I am Queen Zenobia,” the woman says. “Turn back; only 




death awaits you!” 




The shimmering figures of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia are 
haunts. Characters who see the haunts must save vs. Spells or try 
to run away in fear. The fear lasts for 1-4 turns. The haunts are 
otherwise harmless. Since they have no real physical existance, 
haunts cannot be hurt by physical attacks or spells. 




26. TOMB ANNEX 




The floor of this long, narrowroom has a red and white check- 
erboard pattern of 2’X 2’ squares. Court scenes are painted on 
the north and south walls. In the east wall, there is a 2’ high 
opening at floor level near the southeast corner. 




Room 26 is the annex to the burial chambers of King Alexander 
and Queen Zenobia. This corridor was kept open when the pyram- 
id was built in order to bring in the bodies of the king and queen. 
After the funerals, the corridor was sealed from the outside. 




26a. TOMB TRAPS 




Three pendulum blades are hidden in the ceiling. If a character 
walks into any of the three marked squares, roll 1d6. Ona roll of 1 
the trap is triggered. Victims caught in the trap, or characters who 
try to run through the swinging blades, will be unhurt if they roll 
their dexterity score or lower on 1d20. Those who fail each take 
1d10 points of damage. The pendulum shafts are covered with a 
sticky green goo that looks like green slime. The goo is harmless. 
The blades will swing for one turn, then automatically reset. 




Special 10’ square ceiling blocks were designed to fall and block the 
passage after the burials. The 2’ high opening in the east wall was 
formed when one block failed to fall all the way. A 2’ high crawl- 
space remains between the floor and the bottom of the block. The 




se pra ee eee 




30» ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED_ e “THE Lost city 




ey, 
“cca TON 




AAAS 




en eye ete NN A ak EAE SATS 




STATA RRA SESS Aaa mR aN TD 




block looks like it will fall no further. But the party cannot be sure. 
The DM should increase the tension by telling the party that they 
hear creaking noises coming from the stone block as they are 
crawling underneath it. 




The next obstacle the party must overcome are two stone blocks 
that cracked into rubble when they fell. It will take the party a full 
turn to clear away enough rubble so they can go further. 


The final obstacle is a narrow, twisting corridor, wide enough for 




but one person at a time. The corridor was formed when several 
stone blocks fell crookedly. 




27. COUNCILOR’S BURIAL ROOM 




The door to this room has a 2’ wide hole gnawed in it near the floor. 




Painted on the walls of this room are scenes of a throne room 
with a man giving advice to kings and queens. In the center of 
the room lies a wooden coffin. Large holes have been gnawed in 
the sides of the coffin. 




The holes in the coffin and the door have been gnawed by 3 giant 
shrews (AC 4; HD 1*; hp 4 each; MV 60°, #AT 2; D 1-6/1-6; Save 
F1;ML 10; ALN). The giant shrews have made the coffin their lair. 
The coffin is empty except for the giant shrews. The body and any 
treasure have been stolen. 




The giant shrews have burrowed through a weak spot in the door 
and use the hole as an exit when they go hunting in the pyramid 
corridors. 




Like bats, giant shrews depend on sound “echoes” to “see.” As 
soon as the giant shrews sense anything nearby, they will attack. 
Because of their quickness, they always gain initiative on the first 
attack, and are +1 on initiative for the second attack. Their ferocity 
is so great that any character of third level or less attacked by them 
must save vs. Death Ray or run away in fear. A silence, 15’ spell 
will blind them. 




27a. TRAP DOOR 




In the middle of the floor at this point is alarge stone slab with =i 
bronze ring bolted deeply into it. 




The slab is a trap door. When the trap door is opened the party will 
see an iron ladder leading down to room 44 on Tier 5. 




28. HIGH PRIEST’S BURIAL ROOM 




The door to this room is scorched, as is the end of the corridor. 
The outline of a man-sized humanoid form is etched into the 
scorched wall section. The door to the roomis slightly open, but 
not enough to see into the room. 




The man-sized outline is that of a ghoul. The ghoul was blasted to 
ashes when it accidently triggered the magical trap guarding the 
door. Now that the trap has been triggered, the door can be 
opened safely. 




Alongthewallsare paintings of a priest performing ceremonies. 
Ona raised dais* in the middle of the room lies an open bronze 
sarcophagus. Here, three hideous, beast-like humanoids are 
tearing a mummified body apart with their sharp claws. 




The three creatures are ghouls (AC 6; HD 2*; hp 9 each; MV 30’; 
#AT 3; D 1-3 all; Save F2; ML9; ALC). Any non-elf creature hit bya 
ghoul must make a save vs. Paralyzation or be paralyzed. Tossed 
inside the sarcophagus are a jeweled necklace worth 1500 gp and 
two jeweled bracelets each worth 600 gp. The ghouls have stripped 
them from the body and thrown them away. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTV 




Rene: 




13 




RES REI 




a 




29. EMBALMING ROOM 




This room contains several large tables. Around the walls are a 
number of large jars and casks. There is a bin in the northwest 
| corner of the room. 




This room was used for embalming (preparing bodies for burial). 
Concealed in the room are 5 shadows (AC7; HD 2*; hp 11 each; 
MV 30’;#AT 1; D 1-4+drain strength; Save F2; ML 12; ALC). They 
will surprise the party on a roll of 1-5 on 1d6. These intelligent 
ghost-like creatures look like real shadows. If a shadow scores a 
hit, it will drain 1 point of Strength in addition to doing normal 
damage. This weakness will last 8 turns. Shadows cannot be 
affected by sleep or charm spells. They can only be hit by magic 
weapons. If the party has no magic weapons, it is suggested that 
the DM let them run away after the first shadow attack. The 
shadows will not leave this room. 




If the party destroys the shadows they can search the room. The 
jars and casks are filled with various spices used inembalming. The 
spices have been stored in this room so long that they are now 
worthless. The bin is filled with rotten linen winding cloths. Under- 
neath the rotten linen is a potion of invisibility and a chest filled 
with 3000 gp. 




30. LADY-IN-WAITING’S BURIAL ROOM 




| Awhite ivory coffin lies in a niche in the east wall. Painted on the 
walls are scenes from court life, focusing on the life of ladies-in- 
| waiting to Queen Zenobia. 




The coffin is empty. Except for the coffin, the room is empty. 




31. GUARD CAPTAIN’S BURIAL ROOM 




A mummified human in plate armor and holding a halberd 
stands at attention against the west side of the south wall. 
Grouped around the mummy are nine skeletons holding 
swords, also at attention. 




The mummified body is one of the guardcaptains from the reign of 
King Alexander. It is not an undead monster and its armor and 
weapons are normal. The skeletons are undead monsters (AC 7; 
HD 1; hp 4 each; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save F1; ML 12; AL C). 
They will attack the party as soon as the characters enter and will 
fight until destroyed. There is no treasure here. 




2s cere ae WES ee RD eo — V4 
CARMATED e THE LOST City 4 




r 
= scamarencemsceummemsmemadh Ny 




ak ¢ a 
Vt 




32. QUEEN ZENOBIA’S BURIAL CHAMBER 




The walls of this room are plain stone. An oblong box made 
from stone slabs lies in the center of the room. Written in 
several languages on the side of the box are the words: “May 
the curse of darkness destroy all who dare desecrate my resting 




32 \ 




place.” The box is 3’ high, 7’ long, and 3’ wide. 




The stone box contains the wooden coffin of Queen Zenobia. If the 
coffin is opened, the party will find that Zenobia is now a wight 
(AC 5; HD 3%; hp 24; MV 30’; #AT 1; D energy drain; Save F3; 
ML 12; AL C). She will attack on sight (roll initiative normally). A 
wight can only be hit by silvered or magical weapons. Each hit by 
the wight drains one level of experience (including one hit die) from 
the victim. The queen’s chamber once containeda treasure trove. 
However, the only treasure left is the jeweled crown she wears 
(5000 gp) and her sceptre (actually a wand of paralyzation with 8 
charges). Since becoming a creature of darkness, she has forgot- 
ten how to use the wand. 




33. FALSE TOMB 




This room contains two large sarcophagi. Both gleam with 
golden highlights. One sarcophagus is marked “Alexander,” 
the other is marked “Zenobia.” Surrounding the sarcophagi are 
a number of large wooden chests. The room is littered with 
broken objects: two smashed thrones, a broken chariot, 
smashed pottery, broken weapons, and torn clothing. Piles of 
bones cover the floor. On the walls is a mosaic* showing 
famous events from the reign of King Alexander and Queen 
Zenobia. 




This is not the real tomb of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia. 
This is a fake tomb to fool grave robbers. The bodies inside the 
sarcophagi are actually those of royal slaves. The real burial 
chambers of the king and queen are rooms 32 and 34. 




The sarcophagi are made of wood, painted to look like gold. The 
chests contain small items a king and queen might need in the 
afterlife. All the items have been ritually “killed” (broken, ripped, or 
smashed) just like the larger items littering the floor. The piles of 
bones are the remains of royal slaves and royal animals killed after 
the funeral. 




Four chests apparently contain 5000 sp, 6000 gp, 3000 ep, and 2000 
pp. In the sarcophagiare 50 gems and 12 pieces of jewelry. All coins 
and treasure are cheap counterfeits. The actual value of all the 
items in the room is only 450 gp. Dwarves or thieves will notice that 
the gems, jewels, and coins are fake ona roll of 1-5 (on 1d6, one roll 
only). If the party does not have a dwarf or a thief, they will only 
notice the deception on a roll of 1-3. 




If the party taps on the walls (using a hammer, wooden pole, or 
some similar object) they will notice hollow sounds where the 
secret doors open into the hidden corridors. If the party cannot 
open the secret doors, they can try to break them down. This will 
take 6 turns plus 1d6 turns. The DM should hint by description that 
the party is making progress (though slowly) until they finally break 
in. The DM should describe all the noise the party is making as well. 
Wandering monsters are rolled for normally. 




34. KING ALEXANDER’S BURIAL CHAMBER 




| The walls of this room are bare. In the center of the room is an 
oblong box made from stone slabs. Suddenly, rising out of the 
| stone box is a translucent, ghost-like figure. The pale figure has 




| ; 
| glowing red eyes and a large, dark mouth. 




The translucent, ghost-like figure is a banshee (AC 3; HD 5*; hp 
26; MV 50’; #AT 1; D wail for 1-4; Save F5; ML L 12; AL C). The 
banshee is a new monster. A banshee is a supernatural creature 
that warns certain families of an approaching death or mourns for 
certain individuals after their deaths. Banshees can only be hit by 
magical weapons or harmed by magical spells. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




1 square = 10 feet 




Cross-section View KEY 




N Level 6 Room, 66 




a Level 7, Room 79 Trap Door 
in Floor 




Door 




Level 8, Room 90 




Stairs 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 33 




34 




aac 




SUSRSBEREL, wap 




j , 




KEY 




Fo 
Hole in Floor 
and Ceiling 
Hole in Ceiling 
oa 
Level 8, Room 90 
Stairs 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Tier 7 




Cross-section View 




Level 6 Room, 66 




Level 7, Room 79 




is wall 




Sand level 




2 




Tier 10 




: ZX 
Ruins \ ETO 




| 
q ge BAAS Ml soon M ass? EES 2S Ges Fe ter . Step pyramid oa 




Underground city 




Lower catacombs 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




BS. 




i tH | 
nh 


hy ‘ 
CT a L 




: i 
i A 




a Bla 
vl | ie 




= ti 




ret se SSMS st LG LTR ed ER SERRA EN De TT eal na Tia Se ranaaatir 
oricinat ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED ° THE Lost city 




a a OE EE Ee 




dep Ayig punoibsapuyr) 




AS TET SON LE OTE LTE 




coe RRR SRE ERTIES 




This banshee is guarding King Alexander’s grave. It attacks by 
wailing. The DM should describe the banshee’s piercing wail and 
tell the party they can feel an icy death-like chill. Then the DM 
should roll initiative. If the party wins initiative and runs out of 
range, they take no damage. Otherwise, all individuals within 30’ of 
the wailing banshee take an automatic 1-4 points of damage per 
round from the wailing attack. If the party can get outside the 
room, and close the door between themselves and the banshee, 
they will be safe (even if still within the 30’ range of the wail). The 
banshee will attack as soon as the tomb door is opened. 




King Alexander’s tomb was looted long ago, except for the trea- 
sure inside the woodencoffin (which is inside the stone box). King 
Alexander wears a jeweled crown worth 5000 gp. He has plate 
armor +1 and a sword +2. 




35. SLAVE’S BURIAL ROOM 




This room is filled with skeletons. The bones lie in piles on the 
floor. They cover the floor so thickly that it is impossible to walk 
across the room without walking on bones. 




The skeletons are the remains of household slaves belonging to the 
various individuals buried in the pyramid. Upon the deaths of their 
masters, the slaves were herded together and killed, then tossed 
into this room. The skeletons are not undead. They are merely 
bones. 




36. CHAMBERLIN’S BURIAL ROOM 




The walls of this room show painted scenes of a man signing 
documents and organizing tax collection. A wooden coffin that 
has been smashed open is lying on the floor. Six pale-skinned 
humans stand around the coffin. They all have wounds bad 
enough to kill a normal person. 




The six humans are zombies (AC 8; HD 2; hp 9 each; MV 40’; #AT 
1; D 1-8; Save F1; ML 12; AL C). Zombies are undead. They will 
attack the party on sight and fight until destroyed, always striking 
last. Zombies are immune to sleep and charm spells. The coffin 
has already been looted. 




37. GIANT RAT LAIR 




This room appears to be empty except for an odd-shaped 
mound in the southwest corner of the room. Rustling and faint 
squeaking noises seem to come from the mound. 




Ten 3’ long, gray rats have made a nest in the corner of the room. 
These are giant rats (AC 7; HD 1/2; hp 2 each; MV 40’ #AT 1; D 1-3 
+ disease; Save F1; ML 8; ALN). Eachgiantrathasa 1 in 20 chance 
of havinga disease. A character bitten by a diseased rat must save 
vs. Poison or be infected. The disease has a 1 in 4 chance of being 
fatal in 1d6 days, otherwise the character will be sick in bed (no 
adventuring) for one month. 




The rats’ nest conceals a small hole in the west wall. This hole is just 
big enough for a giant rat to crawl through. It leads to the corridor 
to the west. Inside the rat’s nest are 300 gp and four 500 gp gems. 
38. JESTER’S BURIAL ROOM 




The floor from the tier above (20a) hinges down to meet arampin 
this room. 




Painted on the walls of this room are court scenes showing King 
Alexander and Queen Zenobia being entertained by a dwarven 
jester. A small coffin rests in aniche in the east wall and in each 
corner of the room is a large brass jar. 




oT sea 




LLL SLED LETT LNT ELE EEN ON EBT TE ETAT IE 




15 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCA 




If the lid of the coffin is touched, it will spring off. An oversized 
wooden model of the head of the dwarven jester, painted in bright 
colors, will jump up. The head is attached to a coiled spring like a 
jack-in-the-box. The coffin also contains the ashes of the jester. 
The brass jars look empty, but any item put completely into any of 
them will be instantly teleported into a large concealed hollow 
beneath the coffin. The jars were used by the jester as his master 
trick, in which he made items disappear to amuse the court. The 
party can get to the hollow by removing the coffin. 




39. ROLLING BOULDER TRAP 




Any character who reaches the west door to room 39a will trigger 
this trap. The wall in the north corridor opens anda 10’ wide, round 
boulder rolls out of the hidden area. The boulder will roll down the 
long corridor at 40’ per round. When it stops, it will block the 
corner near room 40. 




This boulder trap is not meant to kill player characters, only scare 
them. Unless the party does something obviously stupid (like 
standing and arguingwhile the boulder is rolling toward them), the 
DM should let the party escape after a close shave—into the room 
or aroundacorner. The DM should describe the rolling boulder as 
graphically as possible: crashing sounds echoing down the corri- 
dor, stone chips flying where the boulder smashes against the wall, 
the corridor floor shaking from the force of the boulder, etc. The 
encounter should be exciting, but not deadly. 




If the boulder strikes a character, it will do 3-30 points of damage. 




The boulder will stop after it strikes one character or reaches the 
end of the hall. 




39a. NOBLE LADY’S BURIAL ROOM 




A sarcophagus rests on a dais in the center of the room. The 
dais is 10’ square. From each corner of the dais rises a slender, 
6’ tall column. The tops of the columns meet the corners of an 
arched dome above the sarcophagus. On the dais at each end 
of the sarcophagus is a brass jar from which flames dance. 
Finally, the walls of this room are painted with scenes from the 
life of a noble lady. 




The noble lady’s mummified body rests in the sarcophagus. The 
jewelry once worn by the corpse has been stolen. The brass jars 
are bolted to the floor and their flames cannot be put out. Howev- 
er, behind one of the brass jars is a small bronze tube. It contains a 
piece of parchment. The parchmentis a map of the southwest part 
of this tier marked with a large black “X.” The “X” represents the 
location of the trap door at 27a. The DM can either make amap or 
guide the party to the trapdoor when they get close. 




40. MASTER THIEF’S BURIAL ROOM 




Anelaborate jeweled coffin lies in the center of the room. Next 
to the coffin is a worm-like creature, 9’ long and 3’ high. It has 
many legs and its mouth is surrounded by eight tentacles. Each 
tentacle is 2’ long. 




The creature is a carrion crawler (AC 7; HD 3+1*; hp 13; MV 40’; 
#AT 8; D paralysis; Save F2; ML 9; AL N). A hit by a carrion 
crawler paralyzes the victim unless a save vs. Paralysis is made. 
The paralysis can be removed by a cure light wounds spell, but 
any spell so used will have no other effect. Without a spell, the 
paralysis will wear off in 2-8 turns. The jewels on the coffin are 
worth 3000 gp. Asearch of the body will discover a set of lockpicks. 




A master thief from the reign of King Alexander and Queen Zeno- 
bia used his skills to steal a place near the King and Queen in the 
afterlife. He managed to exchange his own coffin for that of the 
nobleman who was supposed to be buried in this room. 




e THE Lost City 




ase Re 




RITATED 




LGN 




PART 4: TIER 5 (Dungeon Level Three) 




The third dungeon levelconsists of Tier 5 (rooms 41-58). This tier, 
including the pyramid’s main entrance, is buried under the sand. 
Hidden in the main entry chamber (room 50) is a secret door toa 
passage leading to the underground city (see Part 5: Expanding 




Wandering Monsters 




Wandering monsters are encountered ona roll of 1 on 1d6. Check 
for wandering monsters once every 2 turns. Roll 1d8 for the type of 




the Adventure). monster encountered, or choose one. 
Wandering Monster Table: Level 3 
Die Wandering 
Roll Monster No AC HD hp MV #AT Damage Save ML AL 
1 Beetle, Giant: 
Tiger Beetle 5: 3 3+1 14 50° 1 2-12 F2 9 N 
2 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
3 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
4 Cynidicean for details see Part 6: New Monsters 
5 Driver Ant 4 3 4* 19 60° 1 2-12 F2 7 N 
6 Lizard, Giant: 
Tuatara 2 4 6 27 30’ 3 1-4/1-4/2-12 F3 6 N 
7 Rust Monster 1 2. 5 24 40’ 1 special F3 7 
8 Thoul 4 6 at" 13 40’ 2 1-3/1-3 F3 10 c 
Tiger Beetle. Tiger beetles are 4’ long and have striped carapa- hungry. A tuatara has a membrane over its eyes which, when 
ces* that look like tiger skins. They are carnivorous and will attack lowered, gives the giant lizard 90’ infravision. 
if hungry. 
Rust Monster. Rust monsters are described in both editions of 
Cynidicean. As usual, the DM may use the encounters given in ue D&D Basic rules. This one escaped from the Magi of 
Part 6, or make upa new one. Thiscould also be anencounter with Samigaras: 
members of one of the factions. Thoul. A thoul is a magical combination of a ghoul, a hobgoblin, 
. : : , and a troll (for trolls, see D&D Expert rules). Thouls look like 
Driver Ant. Driver ants are giant black ants about 6’ long. When hobgoblins. The party will think these thouls are hobgoblins until 
hungry, they will eat anything in their path. Further, once in com- they attack. In combat, a character hit by a thoul must save vs. 
bat, they will fight to the death with no morale checks. The DMcan Paralysis or be paralyzed. (This is like a ghoul’s touch, even though 
add a special tunnel to their lair, if desired. thouls are not undead.) A thoul regenerates lost hit points while it is 
alive. After a thoul is hit, the DM adds 1 to its hit points at the 
Tuatara. A tuarara is an 8’ long giant lizard that looks like a cross beginning of each combat round. The thouls serve the Priests of 
between an iguana anda toad. It has pebble-colored olive skin and Zargon. They hunt for prisoners to take back to the Underground 
white spikes along its back. It is carnivorous and attacks when City. 
KEY TO TIER 5 




41. STORAGE ROOM 




Shelves line the walls of this room. Stored on the shelves are 
items used in religious ceremonies (candles, incense, clerical 
robes etc.). Three huge, fearsome human-like creatures wear- 
ing animal skins have smashed open a box of candles and are 
eating them. 




The three human-like creatures are ogres (AC 5; HD 4+1; hp 19 
each; MV 30’; #AT 1; D 1-10; Save F4; ML 10; ALC). Ogres are not 
too bright. They thought the candles looked good to eat so they 
started eating them. They have three huge leather sacks holding 
500, 500, and 400 gp, a ring of fire resistance, and a magic- 
user/elf scroll (continual light, levitate, read lanquages). 




16 




SEMA TREE SLL EL AEE IS IE AN ES eM 




42. CLERIC’S QUARTERS 




This room contains three bunk beds. Lying on them are hu- 
mans dressed in bright yellow robes. They wear masks of a 
boar, a tiger, and a wolf. 




The masked humans are actually dopplegangers (AC5; HD4*; 
hp 18 each; MV 30’; #AT 1; D 1-12; Save F10; ML 10). The 
dopplegangers took the forms of three Cynidiceans, then killed the 
originals. They will try to join the party, choosing one victim each. 
When they have a chance to do it secretly, they will change shape 
to look like the victim, then try to kill the victim and take his or her 
place. They are immune to sleep and charm spells. The dopple- 
gangers carry 9 gems worth a total of 1500 gp. 




eid PCBS EEE Se EF eg a ety IE ART GET 




ornicinaL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE Lost city 




ee eee 




43. TREASURE ROOM 




A slight breeze stirs in the room when the door is opened. A 
large, padlocked wooden chest sits near the north wall of the 




room. Behind the chest is a huge tapestry of a desert scene. 




The tapestry is actually a new monster, the polymar (AC9; 
HD 10; hp 45; MV 20’; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-6; Save F5; ML 10; AL C). 
A polymar is a semi-intelligent, many-celled creature that can 
reshape its body to look like any creature of 10 HD or less, or any 
object up to 10’ X 10’ X 10’ in size. The polymar will not have any 
special abilities, only the shape of the object or creature copied. 




A close examination will show that the tapestry is not actually 
made from woven threads. There is a 1 in6 chance that one of the 
player characters will notice something suspicious, even without a 
close examination (2 in 6 if an elf is present). For example, the 
tapestry will not move in the breeze created when the door is 
opened because the polymar is much heavier than a real tapestry. 
If the polymar is not detected, it will attack with surprise. 




The treasure in the locked chest is 3000 ep and 5000 gp, a potion of 
invisibility, chainmail +1, and a dagger +1. 




44. SECRET ROOM 




The ladder from the trap door at 27 leads down into this room. The 
room is empty. 




45. BEDROOM 




This room contains a bed, a table, a chair, a lantern, and a 
wooden holy symbol of two intertwined snakes. The furniture is 
made of wood. A hooded white robe is draped over the chair. 
Except for the furniture and the robe, the room appears to be 
empty. 




This was once the bedroom of Demetrius, a 6th level cleric. 
Demetrius wasan elder in the cult of Usamigaras. His twin brother, 
Darius, was a 6th level cleric in the cult of Zargon. Years ago, 
Demetrius vowed to destroy the cult of Zargon, especially his evil 
brother. But Demetrius was assassinated before he could even 
begin his quest. 




Demetriusmadea dying wish that his spirit live on until Darius was 
destroyed. The spirit of Demetrius now rests in the white robe. 
Any character touching the robe must make a save vs. Dragon 
Breath or be taken over by the spirit of Demetrius. Demetrius will 
only possess the character long enough to kill Darius (see room 
58). 




17 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




Though outwardly unchanged, the possessed character is now a 
6th level Lawful cleric. The character will have Demetrius’s Wis- 
dom (16), Intelligence (10), and hit points (31). His saving throws 
will become: 




Death Ray or Poison = 9, Wands = 8, Turn to Stone = 12, 
Dragon Breath = 14, Spells = 10. 




If Demetrius is reduced to 0 hp, the possessed character will die. 
Demetrius has the following spells: 




1st level: cure light wounds, detect evil 
2nd level: bless, hold person 


*3rd level: striking 


*4th level: cure serious wounds 




* If using the D&D Expert rules only 




The DM should allow the player whose character has been pos- 
sessed to play Demetrius. Take the player aside and tell him or her 
what is happening, with as much background as you think is 
needed. Encourage the player to role play Demetrius as much as 
possible. Be ready to remind the player, if necessary, that Deme- 
trius’ only goal is to kill his brother Darius, and consider disallowing 
player actions that are out of character. 




Demetrius knows the way to room 58, including any secret doors 
on the way. He does not know about any of the traps on this level. 
As long as the party moves by the quickest route to Darius (room 
58), Demetrius may help them defeat monsters. 




Demetrius will depart once Darius is dead, and the white robe will 
disintegrate. The possessed character will be magically restored to 
his or her own full hit points when Demetrius leaves. 




46. KITCHEN-DINING ROOM 




This room appears to be an abandoned kitchen and dining 
room combination. The cupboards, table, and chairs are co- 
vered witha thin layer of dust. Near the table, twolarge snakes 
with brown and yellow scales are coiled around the body of a 
woman wearing a rabbit mask. 




The two snakes are rock pythons (AC 6; HD 5*; hp 23 each; 
MV 30’; #AT 2; D 1-4/2-8; Save F3; ML 8; ALN). They will attack 
the party on sight. If a python’s bite attack is successful, it will coil 
around the victim and constrict in the same round for 2-8 points of 
damage. Thereafter, the constriction attack automatically hits 
each round. Around the neck of the dead Cynidicean is a necklace 
worth 700 gp. Concealed in her robes is a full water bottle and a 
small pouch of food. 




47. LIVING ROOM 49a. PIT TRAP 




The room looks like a living room. It contains wallhangings and 
ornate divans*. There are several pieces of sculpture in the 
room, as well as an iron statue of a warrior on each side of the 
doorway just inside the room. Everything is covered by a thin 
layer of dust. 




This floor section conceals a hidden 10’ deep pit filled with spikes. 
The DM should roll for each character entering this area—the trap 
is triggered ona roll of 1 or 2 on 1d6. Characters falling into the pit 
will take 2-12 (2d6) points of damage. Remember that Demetrius 
does not know about this pit. 




The statues are actually living iron statues (AC 2; HD 4*; hp 18 
each; MV 10’; D 1-9/1-8+ special; Save F4; ML 11; ALN). Theywill 50. MAIN ENTRY CHAMBER 
attack if the party enters the room and allows the door to swing 
shut. While the door is held or jammed open, the statues will not ‘Fic high arched ealian of fhisaoom ie suoportaibyadaible 
attack. : et ee : : 


row of pillars. Each pillar is carved into a statue of a king or 
queen of Cynidicea. A series of mosaic pictures decorate the 
walls of the room. These start in the northeast corner and 
continue clockwise around the room. Inthe center of the north 
wall is a a pair of huge stone doors. At the base of the double 
doors, the floor is partially covered with sand. 




If a statue is hit by a non-magical metal weapon, the attacker must 
save vs. Spells. Failure means the weapon sticks to the body of the 
iron statue and cannot be pulled away until the statue is destroyed. 
Living iron statues are not affected by sleep spells. 




48. HIDDEN GUARDROOM 




The mosaics show scenes from the history of Cynidicea. From the 




Four humans wearing stylized rat masks and red robes northwest corner, the mosaics show: 
trimmed with rat fur leap to their feet and look at you. In the 
northeast corner of the room are stairs going down. 1. A tribe of squat, heavy-browed humanoids wielding crude 




The four men are actually wererats (AC 7; HD 3*; hp 13 each; Stowe: Weapons: Wotship:a lizard headed god: 




MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-4; Save F3; ML 8; AL C). These lycanthropes 9 
are disguised as Cynidiceans so they can safely rob the citizens 
when they get a chance. If threatened, the wererats will change into 
giant rat form and fight or run. Like other lycanthropes, wererats in 
animal formcan only be hit by silvered or magical weapons. They 
have asmall chest with 2000 sp and 4 gems worth a total of 700 gp. 




. Alarge band of tall, black-haired people battle the humanoids 
and take over their hunting grounds. 




3. A village rises over the scene of the battle. In the arid lands 
around the village are fields of grain and vast herds of cattle 




and sheep. 


The stairs end ina bricked-up wall, unless the expanded adventure 


is being played (see Part 5: Expanding the Adventure). 4. Agreat leader arises in time of need and gathers the villagers 
into an army that destroys an enemy army of snake-headed 
humanoids. 




5. The victorious leader is crowned king, thus founding the line. 
of the rulers of Cynidicea. 




6. The stone city of Cynidicea is built on the site where the village 
stood. 




7. Scenes of the splendor of the kingdom at its height. 
8. The births of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia. 




9. The great pyramid is built. 




10. Slaves digging under the pyramid uncover the foundations of 
a pre-historic temple. 




49. CONSULTATION ROOM 




; ; 4 11. The death of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia and their 
The room is paneled with wood, and a dusty carpet covers the burial in the pyramid. 
floor. A large, heavy desk sits in the center of the room. Several 
eee ra Certain arco acl ~ mes 12. Theworship of the old gods Gorm, Usamigaras, and Madarua 
Isa ASE PiUshy Gals W ny aoe’ COUT Was, is replaced by the worship of a large humanoid with many 
a mounted lion’s head. Four large painted urns* stand in the tentacles 
corners of the room. Finally, on both sides of the north doorway E 


tone pedestals* with st tatues of winged beasts with ‘ : me 
ee ee ee ee eee ese 13. Life becomes a year-round carnival for the Cynidiceans. All 
claws, fangs, and horns. Bats 
Cynidiceans are now masked. 




The two statues are gargoyles (AC 5; HD 4*; hp 18 each; MV 30,’ oe? : : 


fly 50’; #AT 4; D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4; Save F8; ML 11; AL C). Ifthe party 14. The Cynidiceans meet a barbaric, golden-haired people (the 
is expecting gargoyles when they see the statues, roll initiative ancestors of the Heldann tribes mentioned in module X1). 
normally. If not, the party will be surprised. The gargoyles will 
attack as soon as the party enters the room. They can only be hit 
with magical weapons and are not affected by sleep or charm 
spells. The desk has three drawers anda locked cabinet. Inside the 




15. The final pictureisnota mosaic. It is a crudely painted sketch 
that shows the tribesmen looting Cynidicea. 




cabinet are 2000 ep, a mace +1, anda poison potion. Hidden in There is room on the wall for more pictures, but the space is blank. 
the cushion of the plush chair are 18 gems each worth 100 gp. The The huge doors, which open outward, are blocked by sand and 
urns and lion head contain nothing of value. cannot be opened. There is no treasure here. 


18 




ET TT RE TS TE a ET TST TT ST 




ERR see 




Se RRR eS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED > e THE Lost city 




ES LTE LLL TEED TELE EL TELE LE LE 




LLL LET LAERTE 




LLL LLL TL LTTE LISTE LARTER 




ame aE a eC UE Tra STS 




ST A TS 




50a. SECRET ENTRANCE TO THE UNDERGROUND 
CITY 




This secret trap door leads to a passageway to the underground 
city (see the Underground City Map, area S): The party can find 
this door only if the DM is continuing the adventure past the upper 
pyramid (see Part 5: Expanding the Adventure). 


51. CHAPEL 




Thislarge room is obviously a place of worship. On each side of 
abroad center aisle are rows of high-backed wooden benches. 
Narrow aisles along the walls run past ornate mosaics to two 
small fountains set into the walls. Just past the fountains, a large 
dais fills the southern end of the room. On the dais near a stone 
altar lie three large statues that look like the ones on top of the 
pyramid. The statues have been toppled from their bases. A 
mananda woman stand near the toppled statues and talk softly 
to each other. They wear brightly colored clothing and small 
bronze fox masks. Both have red hair and there seems to bea 
resemblance between them. 




This brother and sister are actually werefoxes (AC 9, 6 as fox; 
HD 3+2*; hp 16 each; MV 40’, 60’ as fox; #AT 1; D by weapon or 
1-6; Save F3; ML 8; ALN). They are disquised as Cynidiceans to be 
better able to hunt for treasure and supplies. Werefoxes are a new 
type of lycanthrope (see Part 6). Each werefox can try to charm a 
personof the opposite sex in one round. This ability is like a charm 
person spell, but lasts only one day. A werefox can charm up to 
three times per day. 




These werefoxes may bargain with the party or try to charm them. 
They will try to trick the party out of as much treasure andmagic as 
possible. The two will not take risks they can avoid, or fight 
stronger opponents unless forced to. They rely on their wits to 
survive. If attacked, the two will turn into foxes to fight or escape. If 
hard pressed, they may turn back into human form and surrender. 
The werefoxes will lie, cheat, and bribe the party if necessary to 
survive. They are carrying three pieces of jewelry worth a total of 
3000 gp, a sword +1, casts light on command (30’ radius), a 
helm of alignment change, and a potion. So far, they have been 
afraid to test the potion and don’t know what it is. It is a potion of 
levitation. If forced to fight as humans, the female will use the 
magical sword in combat. 




This room was once the main chapel for Cynidicea. It is seldom 
used now. The fountains are fed by an underground lake. These 
will provide all the water the party needs to drink or to fill their 
water skins. 




52. TRAP ROOM 




The entire room is a large sunken pool filled with a bubbling 
liquid. In the center of the room is a box made of stone slabs. 
The lid of the box is about a foot above the surface of the liquid 
and is locked with a large iron padlock. 




The bubbling liquid is acid. It will destroy any material except stone 
and will do 2-8 points of damage each round to creatures that fall 
into it. The acid is 6’ deep. The stone box is on a special pedestal. 
The pedestal will sink at arate of 1/2’ per meleeround if any weight 
is placed on the box. If the weight is removed the pedestal will rise 
at the same rate (though never higher that 1’ above the surface of 
the acid). Inside the box are 20,000 sp and a clerical scroll (purify 
food and water, remove curse). 




53. ABANDONED CLERICAL QUARTERS 




This roomseems oddly damp. A strange moist odor fills the air. 
The room contains a low bed, some wooden shelves, and a 
small chest. The contents of the room seem to shimmer, as if 
seen through clear water or a thick pane of glass. 




EO AFR FEN A TIT A STR WHT 




RTA TRS EELS ET EE TM Ee SES EE 




19 




ROH eRe TTA 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REiNCARMATED e THE Lost city 




Just inside the doorway is a gelatinous cube (AC 8; HD 4*; hp 18; 
MV 20’; #AT 1; D 2-8 + paralyzation; Save F2; ML 12; ALN). The 
party is viewing the room through the gelatinous cube. The mons- 
ter will move toward and attack the party immediately. Victims hit 
by a gelatinous cube must make a save vs. Paralysis or be para- 
lyzed for 2-8 turns (unless the paralysis is removed bya cure light 
wounds spell). The cube may be harmed by fire or weapons, but 
not by cold or lightning. There is nothing of value in the room. Its 
rotted contents will crumble when touched. 




54. STORAGE ROOM 




This room is lined racks of wine bottles. Along the west wall are 
large casks and barrels. Several casks have beensmashed open 
and their contents drained. Suddenly, from behind a stack of 
barrels, a huge bear-like creature with the head of a giant owl 
appears and staggers toward you. 




The creature is an owl bear (AC 5; HD 5; hp 30; MV 40’; #AT 3; 
D 1-8 each; Save F3; ML 9; AL N). It is completely drunk and 
ravenously hungry. If not fed immediately it will attack. It attacks at 
-2 to hit, but its morale is 10. If both paws hit the same opponent 
in one round, the owl bear will “hug” for an additional 2-8 points 
of damage. The room contains 400 bottles of wine worth a total of 
100 gp. 




55. PARTY ROOM 




Nine men and women in bright costumes and fancy masks are 
drinking, talking, and dancing in this room. It appears to be a 
masked ball. Most of the people are dancing as if they had 
invisible partners. You hear snatches of conversation, most of 
which makes no sense. The people seem to be talking to them- 
selves. 




These nine people are Cynidiceans (AC 9; NM; hp 4 each; MV 40’; 
#AT 1;D 1-6; ML special; AL C). As usual, the Cynidiceans are in 
their own dream world. They will assume that the characters are 
merely part of the dream. There is no treasure here. 




56. CRASHING WALLS 




A hidden pressure plate in the center of the hall triggers this 
trap. The walls just ahead of the party crash together and fly 
apart. The trap is automatically triggered the first time the party 
passes. 




This trap has two purposes. First, it alerts Darius in room 58 that 
someone is coming. Second, it will be a dangerous hazard to a 
party leavingroom 56a if everyone forgets it is here. (In this case it 
is triggered by a 1d6 roll of 1 or 2, and does 3-18 points of damage to 
characters behind the triggering character). The pressure plate will 
be easily seen and avoided if the characters are looking for it on the 
way out. 




56a. LOBBY 




Ten Cynidiceans wearing dark robes and masks of fearsome, 
imaginary monsters sit in a circle in this room. They are staring 
straight ahead, but don’t seem to be looking at anything in 
particular. 




The Cynidiceans (AC 9; NM; hp 4 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
ML special; AL C) are in their own dream world. These particular 
Cynidiceans, however, are in nightmare worlds. They will react to 
party actions, and may even attack the party, but the Cynidiceans 
will never speak, even if they are wounded. They might scream at 
random from some unseen terror. This screaming, however, will 
not match reality (that is, they will not scream if touched or 
attacked). 




mumeees 




57. GAMBLING ROOM 




A dozen brightly robed men and woman masked as various 
animals are playing games of chance. Card games are being 
played at one table, dice games at another. In the center of the 
room is a large wheel of fortune. Many silver and gold coins, 
gems, and pieces of jewelry are changing hands as people win 
and lose. 




Because they are sharinga common dream, these Cynidiceans act 
more normally than those in rooms 54 and 55. They will continue 
gambling and talking about gambling unless physically attacked. 
They may even invite the party to join in. If attacked, they will fight 
back. They will assume that a gang of robbers has broken into the 
game room to steal their money. Further, if the party tries to take 
the money without winning it, the cleric and his hobgoblin guards 
from room 58 will enter through the secret door in the south wall 
and attack. 




If the player characters want to join the games and gamble, the DM 
may use any simple system to work out the results. For example, 
the DM and the player might each roll 1d20. The highest roll wins 
and the player loses all ties. Wagers are set before the dice are 
rolled (aminimum of 50 gp and a maximum of 1000 gp are suggest- 
ed). The characters cannot win any more money than is currently 
in this room. If the characters begin winning large sums, the cleric 
from room 58is likely to attack since he considers all the money in 
this room to belong to him—as a priest of Zargon he plans to take 
most of the money as “taxes.” 




Acharacter possessed by Demetrius will go immediately to the 
proper wall section and start looking for the secret door. He will 
know his enemy is very close. 




The gambling room contains 3000 sp, 5000 gp, 26 gems worth a 
total of 3100 gp, and six pieces of jewelry worth 6000 gp total. 




58. CLERIC’S CHAMBER 




This roomcontains the evil cleric Darius and his hobgoblin guards. 




They will be ready for the party to enter, but it is more likely they 
will come charging out of the room as the party tries to take the 
treasure in room 57. If the party has tried to steal the treasure, the 
Cynidiceans in room 57 will join Darius to fight the party. Other- 
wise, these will do nothing unless attacked. The forces of Darius 
include: 




Darius: AC5; C6; hp 22; MV 20’; #AT 1 at +1, or spell; D 1-6+1; 
Save C6; ML 10; ALC; S 13, 19, W 16, D9, C 13, Ch 14. 




Darius has the following spells: 




1st level: cure light wounds, light** 
2nd level: bless**, silence 15’ radius 
*3rd level: striking 
*4th level: cause serious wounds 




*If using the D&D Expert rules only. 
**Reverse if using the D&D Expert rules. 




6 hobgoblins: AC6; HD 1+1; hp 5 each; MV 30’; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
Save F1; ML 8; AL C. The DM maychange the number of hobgob- 
lins as desired. 




12 Cynidiceans: AC 9; NM; hp 4 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-6; ML 
8; ALC. 




Suggested spell use for Darius: 




Before melee: bless the hobgoblins (or blight the party) 




round 1: silence a party magic-user 
round 2: striking on his own mace 
round 3: other spells as appropriate 




Darius may use spells in a different order as the fight develops, but 
he will always use his spells as intelligently as possible. 




Except for Darius and the hobgoblins, there is nothing of interest in 
this room. 




PART 5: EXPANDING THE ADVENTURE 




The basic pyramid adventure can be continued. This section out- 
lines the lower pyramid levels and the underground city. Sugges- 
tions for further adventures are also given. The DM will find the 
D&D Expert rules helpful if the adventure is expanded. 




The lower levels have new and more dangerous monsters (as well 
as larger treasures). As before, enough information is given in the 
encounter keys so these can be used. If all the characters are low 
level, these monsters will be very dangerous. If most of the charac- 
ters are first or second level, they should adventure here only with 
a larger party than normal and should expect to lose characters 
often. The DM should think about providing enough supporting 
characters so the player characters have a chance. 




Only key features of the rooms are described so that the DM can 
gain experience in setting up encounters. On Tier 6, the room titles 
will suggest what type of details to add. On Tiers 7-9, all the rooms 
are cave-like chambers with paintings on the walls and ceilings. 
The paintings are described, and the DM may add more details if 
desired. Tier 10, Zargon’s lair, is described in detail. 




How to Design an Encounter. To design an encounter, decide 
why a monster is there. For example, see the hellhounds on Tier 7, 
room 79. Since the Priests of Zargon often take prisonersdown to 
room 100, and since there are trolls nearby in room 78, the 
hellhounds could be guarding the way down for the Priests. Nowa 




duamesiat SSE ie SE LS 




20 




i rem MN ATS WLI ee a a aN ee 
oriGcinaL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED | e THE Lost city 




Vi USES ES fA ee RP ERS Se eSATA SN RN ST 




reason for the pile of copper is needed. One reason: the hounds 
will let anyone who throws a copper piece on the pile go down the 
ladder without a fight. The special magic items are buried and 
hidden from sight (though the party will see the glow if a detect 
magic is cast on the pile). An encounter “script” is made up as 
follows: 




As the party enters, they see the pit, ladder, large reddish dogs, 
and the pile of copper (the magic is well buried). The hellhounds sit 
and grin when they see the party, but remain watchful (normal 
initiative if the party attacks—no hellhound attack if the party is 
surprised). They are waiting for the party to throw some coins on 
the pile and go down, just like everyone else does. It is important 
that the dogs see the party and sit before the party has a chance to 
react—this is a signal that something weird is going on. If the party 
doesn’t catch on quick (the DM should help them with suggestive 
growls and whines) the dogs will start to get nervous, then suspi- 
cious, then will start stalking the party—growling softly, hackles 
raised. If no one catches on, and the party stays in the room or tries 
to go down, the hellhounds will attack. Their true nature will 
become obvious as soon as they breathe. 




There are many other ways to set up this encounter, but the basic 
ideais to give the monster areasonto be in the area. If there are no 
monsters, you might give clues to nearby monsters: tracks, 
smashed furnishings, bones, and so on. 




AES a tes 




ERE pT SRS PAT OLB He EA se gt 




TIERS 6-10 




Tiers 6-10 were dugafter the main pyramid was built. Tier 6 housed 
slave workers and their guards. The lower tiers were to be a series 
of chambers showing the journey of the spirit after death. Each 
room was to have a painting of another stage in the journey. The 
final tier, where Zargon now lives, was to have a painting of the 
Cynidicean paradise. The painting was never made. 




The Cynidiceans do not usually venture into the lower tiers. These 
are the haunt of Zargon, the tentacled monster the Cynidiceans 
worship. Cynidiceans found on these tiers will most likely be 
Zargon’s prey, or Priests of Zargon. 




Wandering Monsters 




Wandering monsters are encountered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check 
for wandering monsters once every 2 turns. 




For the lower pyramid, the DM should make up his or her own 
wandering monster tables. Typical encounters might include spid- 
ers, snakes, living statues, undead, Priests of Zargon, or the new 
creatures given below. Tier 6 equals Dungeon Level 4, Tiers 7-8 
equals Dungeon Level 5, and Tiers 9-10 equal Dungeon Level 6. 




KEY TO TIER 6 (Dungeon Level 4) 




Room 58. Storage Room 
This empty room was once used to store tools for workers. 




Room 59. Abandoned Guards’ Quarters 


Monster: 1 black pudding (AC 6; HD 10*; hp 45; MV 20’ #AT 1; 
D3-24; Save F5; ML 12; ALN). It dissolves wood and metal in one 
turn, and can only be killed by fire. Weapons and other spells break 
it into smaller puddings (AC 6; HD 2*; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1). 
Treasure: None 




Room 60. Abandoned Overseer’s Room 


Monster: 3 blink dogs (AC 5; HD 4*; hp 18 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; 
D 1-6; Save F4; ML 6; AL L). They have limited teleportation 
ability. Any round they have initiative, blink dogs can attack and 
blink away before being hit. 


Treasure: 2000 sp and a gem worth 500 gp. 




21 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Room 61. Abandoned Slave Quarters 


The stairs here lead up to room 48 on Tier 5. 


Monster; 1 giant scorpion (AC 2; HD 4*; hp 18; MV 50’; #AT 3; 
F 1-10/1-10/1-4 + poison; Save F2; ML 11; AL C). Its sting attack 
(1-4) is poisonous. If either claw 1-10) hits, the sting attack is +2 to 
hit. 


Treasure: None 




Room 62. Abandoned Guard Captain’s Room 
This room is empty. 




Room 63. Abandoned Guard Captain’s Room 


Monster: 2 wraiths (AC 3; HD 4**; hp 18 each; MV 40,’ fly 80’; 
#AT 1; D 1-6+energy drain; Save F4; ML 12; ALC). These undead 
drain one energy level when they hit. They can be hit only by silver, 
magic, or magical weapons, and are immune to charm, sleep, and 
hold spells. A L3 cleric can turn wraiths on a roll of 11 on 2d6. 
Trap: Treasure chest with poison dart trap. Fires as a 6 HD 
monster, for 1d4 + poison. 


Treasure: 3000 ep, 5000 gp, 8 pieces of jewelry worth 9600 gp 
total. 




Room 64. Abandoned Kitchen 


Monster: 2 weretigers (AC 3; HD 5*; hp 23 each; MV 50’; #AT 3; 
D 1-6/1-6/2-12; Save F5; ML 9; AL N). Theselycanthropes can only 
be hit with silver, magic, or magical weapons. 


Treasure: 2000 ep and 3 gems worth 1510 gp total. 




Room 65. Old Food Storeroom 
This room is empty. 




Room 66. Old Tool Storeroom 


The trap door conceals a ladder down to room 79 on Tier 7. 
Monster: 2 wood golems (AC 7; HD 2+2*; hp 11 each; MV 40’; 
#AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1; ML 12; AL N). These crude, 3’ tall manlike 
figures move stiffly and havea penalty of -1 oninitiative rolls. They 
can be hit only by magical weapons. Wood golems are immune to 
sleep, charm, and hold spells, as well as all gases. They burn 




a easily, making saving throws against fire-based attacks at -2 and 




taking one extra point of damage for each die of damage fromfire. 
Treasure: None 




Room 67. Abandoned Guards’ Quarters 
This room is empty. 




Room 68. Abandoned Messroom 
This room is empty. 




Room 69. Abandoned Slave Barracks 


Monster: 2 medusae (AC 8; HD 4**; hp 18 each; MV 30’; #AT 1+ 
stone gaze; D 1-6 + poison; Save F4; ML 8; AL C). A character 
meeting a medusa’s gaze will turn to stone if a save vs. Turn to 
Stone is failed. A medusa’s hair is made of poisonous snakes (her 
normal attack). 


Treasure: 11 gems worth 1100 gptotal, rope of climbing, potion 
of heroism, potion of animal control, magic-user/elf scroll 
(phantasmal force), ring of weakness. 




Room 70. Abandoned Cleric’s Quarters (Gorm) 
This room is empty. 




Room 71. Abandoned Cleric’s Quarters (Usamigaras) 
Monster: 1 caecilia worm (AC 6; HD 6*; hp 27; MV 20’; #AT 1; 
D1-8;Save F3;ML9; ALN). Anunadjusted “to hit” rollof 19 or20 
means the caecilia has swallowed its prey whole. The victim takes 
1-8 points of damage a round until it or the caecilia is dead. The 
caecilia burrowed into this room, but the tunnel has collapsed 
behind it. 




Room 72. Abandoned Cleric’s Quarters (Usamigaras) 
Monster: 2 minotaurs (AC 6; HD 6; hp 27 each; MV 40’; #AT 2; 
D 1-6/1-6; Save F6; ML 12; AL C). Once in combat, these bull- 
headed men will pursue as long as their prey is in sight. 
Treasure: 4 gems worth a total of 1700 gp. 




TIERS 7 AND 8 (Dungeon Level 5) 
Key toTier7 




Room 73. The painting shows the various stages in preparing a 
body for burial. 
Contents: None 




Room 74. The painting shows Cynidiceans in mouming. 
Monster: 2 mummies (AC 3; HD 5+1*; hp 23 each; MV 20’; #AT 1; 
D 1-12 + disease; Save F5; ML 12; AL C). Characters seeing these 
undead must save vs. Paralysis or be paralyzed with fear until the 
mummies attack. Mummies are immune to all attacks except 
spells, magical weapons, or fire attacks, all of which do half dam- 
age. They are also immune to sleep, charm, and hold spells. The 
disease caused by amummy lasts until magically cured. It prevents 
magical healing of wounds and makes wounds take 10 times the 
normal time to heal. A L4 cleric can turn mummies on a roll of 11 
on 2d6. 


Treasure: 5000 gp and 4 pieces of jewelry worth 3200 gp total. 




Room 75. The painting shows a funeral. 


Monster: 3 giant weasels (AC 7; HD 4+4*; hp 22 each; MV 50’; 
#AT 1+ drain blood; D 2-8; Save F3; ML 8; ALN). Once they bite 
successfully, weasels hold on and suck blood, doing 2-8 points of 
damage each round until their prey is dead or they are killed. 
Treasure: The body of a previous victim with 77 gp and a 
magic-user/elf scroll (dispel magic, web). 




Room 76. The painting shows a funeral procession. 
Contents: None 




Room 77. The painting shows various types of coffins, caskets, 
and sarcophagi. 


Monster: 2 displacer beasts (AC 4; HD 6*; hp 27 each; MV 50’; 
#AT 2; D 2-8/2-8; Save F6; ML 8; ALN). Because of its displace- 
ment ability, anyone attacking a displacer beast must subtract 2 
from the “to hit” roll. The displacer beast also receives a +2 bonus 
on all saving throws. 


Treasure: 4 gems worth 700 gp total. 




Room 78. The painting shows the building of a gravesite. 
Monster: 2 trolls (AC 4; HD 6+3*; hp 30 each; MV 40’; #AT 3; 
D1-6/1-6/1-10; Save F6; ML10; ALC). The third round after being 
damaged, trolls regenerate 3 hp each round. Trolls can only be 
completely destroyed by acid or fire. 


Treasure: 6000 gp in rotting leather sacks. 




Room 79. The painting shows various scenes of natural death. 
Monster: 2 hellhounds (AC 4; HD 5*; hp 23 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; 
D 1-6 or breath; Save F5; ML 9; AL C). In melee, a hellhound will 
attack one person each round, breathingfire (1-2 on 1d6) or biting 
(3-6 on 1d6). Its breath does 5-30 points of damage, half if the vicim 
makes a save vs. Dragon Breath. Hellhounds can detect invisible 
within 60’ (75% chance). 


Treasure: 9000 cp, sword +1, +3 vs Dragons, and a wand of 
trap detection with 12 charges. 


Ladder: The roomcontains a huge open pit with aladder going up 
to room 66 on Tier 6, and down to room 90 on Tier 8. 




Room 89. The walls, floor, and ceiling are all painted black. 
Monster: 2 werebears (AC 2; HD 6*; hp 27 each; MV 40’; #AT 3; 
D 2-8/2-8/2-16; Save F6; ML 10; ALL). These lycanthropes can 
only be hit by silver or magic. If both paws hit, werebears automati- 
cally hug for 2-16 (2d8) points of additional damage. They may be 
friendly if approached in a friendly manner. 


Treasure: 4000 ep. 




Room 81. The painting shows an individual choosing a gravesite. 
Contents: None 




Room 82. All the walls in the room are painted black except for the 
east wall, which shows a rising sun. 
Contents: None 




22 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Key to Tier 8 




Room 83. The painting shows a narrow bridge over an abyss*. 
Contents: None 




Room 84. The painting shows a group of spirits crossing an 
underground river in a ferry-boat. 


Monster: 1 basilisk (AC 4; HD 6+1**; hp 28; MV 20’; #AT 1;D 1-10 
+stone gaze, stone touch; Save F6; AL 9; ALN). If this lizard hits in 
melee or if its gaze is met, the victim must save vs. Turn to Stone or 
be turned to stone. 


Treasure: 4000 gp and 2000 pp in a loose pile. 




Room 85. The painting shows a ferry-boat and its ferryman, who 
wears a black hooded cloak. 
Contents: None 




Room 86. The painting shows a party of spirits walking across a 
narrow bridge over an abyss. 


Monster: 1 eight-headed hydra (AC 5; HD 8*; hp 64; #AT 8; 
D 1-10 each; Save F8; ML9; ALN). For every 8 points of damage a 
hydra takes, one head will no longer be able to attack. 
Treasure: 4000 cp, 3000 gp, and 4 pieces of jewelry worth 3800 gp 
total. 




Room 87. The painting shows a woman in white robes kneeling 
next to a pool of fire. 


Monster: 1 Djinni (lesser) (AC 5; HD 7+1*; hp 33; MV 30,’ fly 80’; 
#AT 1+ special; D 2-16 (fists) or 2-12 (whirlwind); Save F14; ML 12; 
ALN). Adjinni can perform any of the following three times a day: 
create food and drink (for 12 men and their mounts), create 
metallic objects of temporary duration (varies with hardness— 
gold, 1 day; iron, one round) to a maximum of 1000 cn weight, 
create soft goods and wooden objects (permanent) to a maxi- 
mum of 1000 cn weight, become invisible, assume gaseous form, 
or form itself into a whirlwind. In addition, a djinni can create 
illusions at will that affect both sight and hearing. These last until 
touched. The djinni will let the party pass for a suitable bribe or 
service. 


Stairs: The spiral staircase leads down to room 96 on Tier 9. 




Room 88. The painting is of a gloomy underground river. 
Monster: 2 hill giants (AC 4; HD 8; hp 36 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; 
D 2-16; Save F8; ML 8; ALC). 


Treasure: 12,000 sp, 5000 gp, 1 piece of jewelry worth 1100 gp, 
potion of healing, sword +2, helm of reading languages and 
magic anda cursed scroll (the reader will become 1” tall unless a 
save vs. Spells is made: MV 1’; #AT 0). 




Room 839. A paintingshows an underground pool of fire. 
Monster: 1 manticore (AC 4; HD 6+1*; hp 28; MV 40’ fly 60’; 
#AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/2-8; Save F6; ML 9; AL C). This winged lion with 
the headof amanhas aspikedtail. It can shoot 6 spikes from its tail 
each round. The spikes do 1-6 points of damage each. A total of 24 
spikes can be fired. 


Treasure: 4000 gp, and 6 pieces of jewelry worth 6000 gp. 




Room 990. The walls, floor, and ceiling in this room have all been 
painted the color of sunlight. 
Contents: None 




Room 91. The painting shows a ferry-boat approachinga group of 
Cynidicean spirits waiting on the bank of an underground river. 
Monster: 1 spectre (AC 2; HD 6**; hp 27; MV 50, fly 100’; #AT 1; 
D1-8+ drain 2 energy levels; Save F6; ML 11; ALC). This undead 
creature has no solid body, and can only be hit by magic or magical 
weapons. Its touch drains two levels. It is immune to charm, 
sleep, and hold spells. A L5cleric can turn spectres on arollof 11 
on 2d6. 


Trap: Gas trap on treasure chest. Save vs. Spells or lose half 
Strength and Dexterity (-20% on all thiefly ability rolls) for 24 turns. 
The gas fills the entire room for one hour. 


Treasure: 7000 gp. 




228 SRT EU RL A EE ON SATE EES 




TIERS 9 AND 10 (Dungeon Level 6) 




Key to Tier 9 




Room 92. The painting shows evil spirits being judged (the evil 
spirits turn black upon judgement). 


Monster: 1 devil swine (AC 3; HD 9*; hp 40; MV 60,’ 40’ in human 
form; #AT 1; D 2-12; Save F9; ML 10; ALC). This lycanthrope can 
only be harmed by silver, magic, or magical weapons. It can cast a 
powerful charm person spell up to 3 times per day (save vs. Spell 
at -2). However, charmed creatures cannot use spells or magical 
devices. 


Treasure: A locked chest containing 4000 sp. 




Room 93. Trap Entrance to Zargon’s Lair. 


Trap: The hallway to room 93 turns into a slide when entered, 
tumbling the party into Tier 10, the lair of Zargon. 


Description: A painting shows glowing spirits boarding a winged 
boat made of golden light. 


Contents: None 




Room 94. A painting shows a winged boat of golden light ap- 
proaching a group of glowing spirits. 


Monster: 1 vampire (AC 2; HD 9**; hp 40; MV 40,’ fly 60’; #AT 1; 
D1-10+ drain 2 energy levels; Save F9; ML 11; ALC). This undead 
can only be hit with magic or magical weapons and is immune to 
sleep, charm, and hold spells. It regenerates 3 hp per melee 
round, starting the round after it is hit. It can charm those looking 
into its eyes (save vs. Spells at -2). It can become gaseousat will and 
will use this form to escape if reduced to Ohp. AL6cleric can turn 
vampires on a roll of 11 on 2d6. 


Treasure: 6000 gp, and 10 pieces of jewelry worth 7000 gp total. 




Room 95. The painting shows Madarua dressed in the robes of a 
judge. 


Monster: 1 chimera (AC 4; HD 9**; hp 40; MV 40,’ fly 60’; #AT 5+ 
breath; D 1-3/1-3/2-8/2-8/3-12 + breath; Save F9; ML9; ALC). A 
chimera is part goat, part lion, and part dragon. In addition to its 
claws, the goat head gores for 2-8, the lion head bites for 2-8, and 
the dragon head either bites for 3-12 (50% chance) or breathes a 
10’x 50’ cone of fire for 3-18 points (50% chance, save vs. Dragon 
Breath for half damage). The dragon head can only breath three 
times a day. 


Treasure: 12 pieces of jewelry worth 13,000 gp. 




Room 96. The painting shows a woman dressed in white washing 
the spirits of the dead in a pool of fire. 


Monster: 1 bone golem (AC2; HD 8**; hp 36; MV 40’; #AT 4; 
D 1-8 each; Save F4; ML 12; AL N). This four-armed skeleton 
wields four swords at the same time. It will attack up to two 
enemies each round. Bone golems are immune to sleep, charm, 
and hold spells, plus fire, cold, and electrical attacks. They can 
only be hit by magic or magical weapons. 




Room 97. The painting shows good spirits being judged. After a 
good spirit has been judged, it glows with a golden light. 
Monster: 1 blue dragon (ACO; HD 9**; hp 40; MV 30’; fly 80’; 
#AT3 or breath; Damage 2-7/2-7/3-30; Save F9; ML 9; ALC). The 
dragon breathes lightning in a line up to 5’ x 100’. The breath does 
damage equal to the dragon’s current hit points (save vs. Dragon 
Breath for half). It has a 20% chance of being asleep when the party 
enters the room. This dragon does not talk or use spells. 
Treasure: A mound consisting of 6000 sp, 15,000 gp, and 18 
pieces of jewelry worth 20,000 gp total. 




Room 98. The painting shows Gorm dressed in the robes of a 
judge. 
Contents: None 




Room 99. The painting shows Usamigaras dressed in the robes of 
a judge. 
Contents: None 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SA ES: Nea ES TCA OY PERS PIS tA TE MA SE SS 




23 




Key to Tier 10 
100. LAIR OF ZARGON 




Sliding into a large, slime-covered chamber, you find that the 
floor is littered with bones. Suddenly, you hear a rustling noise 
from the north wall. There, a huge humanoid figure rises from 
the slime, standing 15’ tall. Its head is that of a giant lizard. A 
black, 2’-long horn curves upward above its single red eye, 
and sharp teeth fill its mouth. Instead of arms, the creature has 
six tentacles, three on each side of its body. These end in 
razor-sharp talons. Instead of legs, the creature slithers toward 
you on six more powerful tentacles. 




This creature is Zargon (ACO; HD 12*; hp 80; MV 30’; #AT 7; 
D6x 1-8/3d8; Save F12; ML 12; ALC). It will try to attack and slay 
any party members it can catch, striking with its claws and biting. 
The party can climb back up the slide with difficulty (if Zargon lets 
them). 




Although Zargon is ancient, it is no god. It is a cunning creature 
that discovered its “gqodhood” makes it easier to get victims. Zar- 
gon was worshipped by primitive peoples in early times, but re- 
treated underground when the primitives were wiped out by the 
ancestors of the Cynidiceans. Zargonremained in astrange hiber- 
nation for many years. By chance, the Cynidiceans built the pyra- 
mid on the spot where Zargon’soriginal shrine stood, and the later 
digging of the Cynidicean slaves awakened the creature. 




Zargon can regenerate its body as long as its great horn is not 
destroyed. Regeneration from the bare horn may take anumber of 
years, but otherwise Zargon is likely to be at full strength whenever 
the party encounters it. Zargon’s horn can only be destroyed by 
being cast into a volcanic fire (like the Eye of Zargon in the 
underground city, area Q). Zargon will not regenerate during an 
encounter (it regrows too slowly for that). 




In the slime of Zargon’s lair is the treasure it has gathered. This 
includes: 58,000 sp, 9000 pp, chain mail +2, a shield +2, a spear 
+2, a cursed scroll (turns the reader into a miniature of Zargon, 3’ 
tall, without the power of regeneration: AC 9; hp as character; 
#AT 7; D 6x 1-2/1-6), a wand of illusion with 7 charges, and elven 
cloak and boots. 




i / i, 




THE UNDERGROUND CITY 




If the players enjoyed the pyramid adventure, the DM may want to 
create further adventures near the Lost City. Such adventures 
could take place in the underground city, or in the desert wilder- 
ness around the pyramid. A map of the underground city is pro- 




vided for the DM, and its most important features are briefly 
described. Suggestions fOr additional adventures are given at the 
end of this section. 




KEY TO THE UNDERGROUND CITY 




The underground city was built in the catacombs below the old city 
after the old city was destroyed. About 1000 adult Cynidiceanslive 
there. The most important features of the city are: 




A: Underground Lake. The underground lake is the water 
supply for Cynidicea. It is a deep, fresh-water lake fed by channels 
cut through solid rock. The many fish that live here provide the 
Cynidiceans with fresh meat. 




B: The Island of Death. In the middle of the underground lake is 
an island that is pockmarked with caves. In the center of the island 
is a Stonehenge-like group of arches made fromlargestone blocks. 
It existed before the first Cynidiceans came here. No one is quite 
sure who built it or what its original purpose was. It is rumored to 
be a place of great power. When the Cynidiceans built the under- 
ground city, they dug up all the bodies in the upper catacombs and 
burned them in one mass pyre*. The ashes were then ferried to the 
island and re-buried. Some time later, the island became the home 
of undead and is now avoided by the Cynidiceans. 




C: City Docks. The docks extend out into the lake, forming a 
harbor for the fishing fleet. 




D: Water-Filled Chasm. When the underground lake was first 
flooded, water flowed into this nearby chasm. Cynidicean fisher- 
men avoid the chasm because there are dangerousundertows and 
sharp rock ledges hidden just beneath the surface of the water. 




E: Rock Bridges. Two natural rock arches form bridges across 
the water-filled chasm. They look sturdy. 




F: Mushroom Fields. The Cynidiceansfarm mushrooms, edible 
fungi, and lichens. These fields are not well tended. They are 
overgrown, looking more like fOrests of giant mushrooms than 
cultivated fields. 




G: Stock Pens. The Cynidiceans also herd giant underground 
animals. Their main sources of meat (other than fish) are non- 
poisonous giant snakes, a type of cave locust, and giant rats. They 
keep the animals in stockade-like pens made from giant mushroom 
stalks. Like the fields, the animals are poorly tended. Some pens 
contain only deadanimalsbecause the Cynidiceans have forgotten 
to feed them. In other pens, the animals have broken down the 
walls and now roam freely among the mushroom forests. 




H: Water Channels. The Cynidiceans have laboriously cut 
channels through solid rock to feed the underground lake. These 
channels lead under the desert to hidden springs. Although they 
are 10’ high and 10’ wide, the water level in the channels is usually 
only 2-3’ deep. Sudden floods have been known to occur, however. 




I: Orpheus Park. When the underground city was first built, 
Orpheus, a wealthy citizen, had a park built in his honor. A sandy 
path leads into the park from a small beach. A tiny stream also 
trickles through the park from the underground lake. The park is 
landscaped with giant mushrooms and strange rock formations. 




J: Main Streets. The two main streets, lined with marble co- 
lumns, cross near the middle of the city. The streets, Alexander 
Way and Zenobia Street, are named after King Alexander and 
Queen Zenobia. 




ONE 




nie 




" ccumsmnmenmarcnmam 




aE 




24 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e Tt 




K: The Temple of Zargon. This the largest building in Cynidicea. 
It holds a temple to Zargon and barred cells where prisoners are 
kept until the priests feed them to Zargon. The temple services are 
poorly attended, but the Priests of Zargon are still the strongest 
power in the underground city. 




L: Stronghold of Gorm. The Brotherhood of Gorm turned the 
houses in this area into a stronghold surrounded by stone walls. 
Inside the walled area is a large building with two stone towers. 




M: Stronghold of Usamigaras. The Magi of Usamigaras made 
the houses in this area into a stronghold. Their walled area has a 
large central building and guard posts at each corner of the wall. 




N: Stronghold of Madarua. The Warrior Maidens of Madarua 
turned the houses in this area into their stronghold. This walled 
area houses a large tower. 




O: Goblin Cliff-Dwellings. On the far shore of the lake, sheer 
cliffs rise to a plateau. In the cliffs are caves where goblins and 
hobgoblins live. The goblins and hobgoblins usually climb down to 
thern by ladder, though some caves can be reached by handholds 
cut into the rock. In addition, many of the caves are connected by 
tunnels within the cliffs. These cave-dwellings also house thouls, 
bugbears, ogres, and trolls. 




P: The Wasteland. The top of the plateau is a wilderness of giant 
stalagmites*, stalactites*, strange rock formations, geysers, and 
bubbling pools of mud. 




Q: The Eye of Zargon. In the midst of the wasteland is a lava pit 
knownas the “Eye of Zargon” because the crater glows as redly as 
Zargon’s single eye. The approach to the crater is guarded by flame 
salamanders led by a lesser efreeti (or other creatures chosen by 
the DM). 




R: Entrance to the Lower Catacombs. The entrance to the 
lower catacombs is sealed shut by ahugestonestab. Thisslabcan 
be lifted only by a special winch, using pulleys and heavy chains. 
The entrance, slab, and winch are housed in this special building. 
The underground city was built only in the upper catacombs 
because the lower catacombs holds terrible monsters. The DM 
may use the lower catacombs for special adventures. 




S: Entrance to the Pyramid. Adventurers who enter the under- 
ground city from the pyramid will come onto the map at point S. 
The passage also leads back to room 50 on Tier 5. All of the 
factions have their own secret entrances to the pyramid (not 
shown). 




After the pyramid has been completely explored, the DM and 
players may want to have a special series of adventures in the 
underground city. The following suggestions all have acommon 
goal: the rebuilding of the Cynidicean civilization by the player 
characters. These adventures are intended to require many 
different styles of play, so the DM and players can try different 
approaches to the game. For simple dungeon adventures, the 
| DM can always open new tunnels to other catacomb areas. 




parE EERE 




HE Lost City 




ee ee ee 




LESS LEN RR T ERLE E 




ee LATA A RENN TAN RTE 




a LN A A TSE PR AT SL LIS TOT TLE TENE 




FURTHER ADVENTURES 




1. Uniting the Cynidiceans. The player characters must find a 
way to bring order to the Underground City. While the safest way 
is to unite the factions of Gorm, Usamigaras, and Madarua, the 
DM should allow for other player actions. Typical player plans 
include getting the other factions to combine aginst the evil Priests 
of Zargon, defeating all the factions except the one they support, or 
destroying all factions and taking over the underground city 
themselves. 




2. Destroying Zargon’s Horn. This assumes the player charac- 
ters learn the truth about Zargon’s ability to regenerate its body. If 
they are ever to be completely free of Zargon, its horn must be 
destroyed by dropping it into the lava pit at S. Thepartywill have to 
organize a major expedition, journey to the lava pit, and deal with 
the creatures guarding it to succeed. 




3. The Ambush. The Priests of Zargon try to ambush the party, 
perhaps with the aid of the goblins and hobgoblins. The DM starts 
this scenario like any other adventure. At some point, however, 
the DM springs the ambush. This is a prepared plan of attack 
combining missiles, magic, and melee against the party. Be sure to 
give the party a reasonable chance to survive whensetting up this 
type of situation. The DM should be able to estimate what a given 
party can handle, but if the ambush is too strong, the characters 
should be given a chance to surrender or escape. 




4. Raid on the Temple of Zargon. Even without Zargon, the 
Priests of Zargon are still a strong force in Cynidicea. If the player 
characters have destroyed Zargon, the priests will definitely want 
revenge. On the other hand, a faction the party has joined might try 
to raid the temple, or the party might try to rescue a kidnapped 
character who is being held there. The party could be given a 
general map of the temple, but not the details of guardians, traps, 
and so on. The emphasis would be on planning a good raid. 




5. The Prophecy. A relic of great power belonging to one of the 
factions lies hidden on the Island of Death (B). Its return to the 
stronghold of the faction will complete part of a prophecy that tells 
of Cynidicea’s recovery. The DMshouldcreate the prophecy, then 
give the party a scrap of parchment with the prophecy on it—the 
wordsare clues to the proper path thatleads to the relic. The relic 
itself should pass from play once its purpose is accomplished. 




6. The Antidote. A cure is found for the dream-like state of the 
Cynidiceans. The main ingredient is a small white flower found only 
in certain areas of the lower catacombs. The player characters 
must raise the stone slab (R) and venture into the lower catacombs 
to bring back samples of the flower. Arriving in the proper area 
after a few encounters, the party discovers a mysterious guardian 
whom they must talk or trick into giving them the flowers. The idea 
is to put the party in asituation where magic and cold steel are not 
enough to solve their problems. They must also use their wits to 
complete their task. The guardian could test the worthiness of the 
party before giving them the antidote. The mysterious guardian 
might even be Gorm, Usamigaras, or Madarua in disguise! 




7. The True King. After the deaths of Alexander and Zenobia, the 
royal family did not die out. A descendent of the royal line still lives, 
but would be killed if discovered. The party must protect and 
advise the royal heir, teaching the non-player character howto bea 
king or queen, until it is safe for him or her to take the throne. This 
can runasa long-term theme through any of the other adventures. 




8. Leaving the Desert. The player characters began the adven- 
ture lost in a sandstorm. The DM may create a special wilderness 
adventure for them to find their way out of the desert. (The D&D 
Expert booklet provides rules for adventuring in wilderness 
settings.) 




PART 6: NEW MONSTERS 




sien awn ewe aor awe: 




By SAG 




Oe a Lx BON d 
: =, Sy 




NS 




2D NR NB rN 




eT LEE TEAL: TOOTS 




25 




onicinaL ‘ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE Lost city 




SIC Ny oa STEN OT 




ORE E TH ams 




Banshee* 


Armor Class: 3 No. Appearing: 1 (1) 


Hit Dice: 5* Save As: Fighter: 5 
Move: 150° (50’) Morale: 12 
Attacks: special wail Treasure Type: C 
Damage: 1-4/round Alignment: Neutral 




Banshees are pale ghost-like figures. Their shape is roughly hu- 
manoid, though longer and thinner than most humans. They have 
glowing red eyes anda large, dark mouth. Banshees are supernat- 
ural creatures that haunt certain families. They warn the family 
that one of its members will soon die. Banshees may also mourn for 
a person after his or her death. Thus, they may be found guarding 
graves, catacombs, or tombs. 




Banshees can only be hurt by magic or magical weapons. They are 
immune to sleep, charm, and hold spells. They are not undead, 
and cannot be turned. Disturbed banshees attack with a special 
wail. All those within 30’ of the wailing banshee take 1-4 points of 
damage each round automatically. Doors or walls will block the 
sound. A banshee will attack any living creature it sees. It will 
continue to wail until it is destroyed or until the intruders have run 
away. 




[HRI ARENT BS RESTS: ee 




=r Sater rsomneeTnameceeemA? 




Cynidiceans 




Armor Class: 9 




No. Appearing: 1-6 




the invisible snakes and warn the party to walk around the 
snakes. There are, of course, no snakes. 




This party of four wear insect masks, carrylarge clay jars, and 
hum like bees. They will stop and ask the party to drink from 
the jars. Everyone who does has 1-4 points of damage cured, 
as these jars contain honey from the lair of killer bees. If the 
Cynidicens are attacked, or if someone tries to drink twice the 
Cynidiceans will smash the jars and attack berserkly 
(AC 9; NM; hp 3 each; MV 40’; #AT 1 at +2; D 1-6; ML 12; 




This party of four wears animal masks: Hawk, Fish, Cat, and 
Fox (these are also the character’s names). They are carrying 
a stretcher with a gourd on it. These characters are rushing 
their “sick friend” (the gourd: Dog) toa cleric. If the party has 
a cleric, the Cynidiceans will insist that the cleric cure 




This group of six in bright yellow robes and human masks will 
stop and stare at the party. They will “recognize” a party 
member as the Kihg or Queen of Cynidicea. They will follow 
the character, sing songs of praise, and wait on the character 
hand and foot. In general, they will smother the character with 
attention. However, they will not fight for their King or Queen. 
They are more likely to grab the character and try to rush him 
or her to safety. Theyare AC 9; NM; hp 4 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; 
D 1-6; ML 7; AL C. Their spokesman is Policrates the 




A group of fOur Cynidiceans in feathered robes and bird 
masks approach. On seeing the party, the Cynidiceans will 
“fly” (run) forward, flapping their arms and squawking. They 
will invite the party to fly along and will lead them on a merry 
chase through the pyramid. If the party refuses to join the 
Cynidiceans, the Cynidiceans will insult the party as poor 
creatures who cannot fly (“Thou land-bound slugs!”), circle 
three times, and “fly” away. If attacked, the Cynidiceans 
(AC 9; NM; hp 4; MV 40’; Save: F1) will “fly” away. 




A group of six Cynidiceans with their bodies painted black and 
wearing vulture masks walk quietly toward the party. They 
carry long wooden boards, but seem friendly and normal. 
They will follow the party, waiting for something to be killed. 
When it is, they will rush over and start building a coffin to fit 
the body. When they are done, they will demand a 10 gp 
payment. They will attack if they are not paid (AC 9; NM; 
hp 4 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-6; ML 8; AL C). 




These five Cynidiceans are a NPC Party. They will think the 
player characters are some kind of monster. Turn to the 
Wandering Monster: Level 2 table inthe D&D Basic rules 
(p. B55) and roll for the type of monster the Cynidiceans think 
the player characters are. The Cynidicean party has: 




13: pratense tren emerge 




Hit Dice: 1 Save As: Fighter: 1 6. 
Move: 120’ (40’) Morale: Special 
Attacks: 1 Treasure Type: A 
Damage: 1-6 Alignment: Cc 
Cynidiceans are a special type of normal humans who live in the 
Lost City. They have pale skin, white hair, large eyes, and infravi- 
sion. They wear colorful masks, bright clothing, and carry short AL C). 
swords. The Cynidicean have lived underground so long that they 
have a -1 to hit when attacking in full sunlight (like goblins). They 7 
spend most of their time living in strange dream worlds. Special 
Cynidicean characters can be set up just like normal NPCs. More 
details on the Cynidiceans will be found inthe DM’s Background 
in Part 1 of this module. A dozen encounters with Cynidiceans 
have been outlined. The DM may use these or make up his or her their friend. 
own. 
8. 
Cynidicean Encounters 
1. One character in a wolf mask (AC 9; NM; hp 3; MV 40’; 
#AT none; ML 7; AL C) is encountered. This Cynidicean 
believes he is awerewolf. When he sees the party, he will drop 
to all fOurs, howl, sniff, circle, and generally behave like a wolf. 
He may try to bite if approached too closely. He thinks he 
cannot be harmed, and will only be afraid of magic or silver 
weapons. Herald. 
2. Three characters approach the party, dressed in dark robes 9. 
and devil masks. They carry incense burners. These Cynidi- 
ceans think they are powerful clerics (AC 5; C3, C2, Cl; 
hp 13, 9,4;MV 30’, #AT 1; D 1-6; ML8; ALC). They see the 
party as demons and will try to drive them off with loud cries 
and foul-smelling smoke. The leader’s name is Brother 
Theodeus. 
3. One Cynidicean dressed in bright green robes and a bird 
mask approaches the party (AC 9; NM; hp 3; MV 40’; #AT 1; 
D 1-6; ML 11; AL C). She will walk slowly up to one party 10. 
member, hand him or her a small pouch, smile, and walk on. 
She will not notice any attempt the party makes to talk to her. 
The pouch contains a strange powder that smells like cloves. 
The powder has no special properties at all. 
4. This group of five Cynidiceans is dressed in brightly colored 
robes and masks with human faces. They will think the party is 
the same band of barbarian raiders who looted the city 
centuries ago. They will flee in panic as the party approaches. 11. 
5. Six Cynidiceans in striped robes and camel masks zig-zag 
slowly down the hall in single file. They are trying to avoid the 
invisible snakes on the floor. They will try to show the party 
26 
é 
r \ * ia Re” TAR AS A AES ; EE LSS LS NLR NSB TSE ET NONE AN ™ NET 
48 ». ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




8 
%, 




y 
SOT ANE 




Sd 




F3 (AC 5; hp 14; MV 20’; #AT +1 at 1; D 1-81; Save F3; ML 8; 




F2 (AC 5; hp 10; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F2; ML 8; AL C) 


F2 (AC 5; hp 8; MV 20’; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F2; ML 8; AL C) 


M2 (AC 9; hp 6; MV 40’; #AT 1 or spells; D 1-4; Save M2; ML 8; 
AL C) Spells: hold portal, magic missile 


C2 (AC 5; hp 8; MV 20’; #AT 1: D 1-6; Save C2; ML 8; AL C) 
Spell: cure light wounds 




12. The party encounters a Priest of Zargon (AC 5; C3; hp 12; 
MV 20’;#AT 1; D 1-6; Save C3; ML 8; AL C; Spell: cure light 
wounds x2 . He has twelve fanatic followers (AC 9; Fl; 
hp 4 each; MV 40’; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save F1; ML 12; ALC). They 
are ona holy quest and will insist the party come along. (The 
priest will try to trick the party and take them prisoner.) 




Lycanthrope, Werefox 




Armor Class: 6 (9) No. Appearing: 1-4 (1-6) 
Hit Dice: 3+2* Save As: Fighter: 3 
Move: 180°(60’) Morale: 8 
Attacks: 1+ charm Treasure Type: C 
Damage: 1-6 Alignment: Neutral 




Werefoxes are foxes that can change into human form. In human 
form, the werefox will have fox-like red hair and an Armor Class of 
9. A werefox in human form has the ability to charm a person of 
the opposite sex. This ability works like a charm person spell, but 
lasts only one day. In fox form, the werefox can charm animals. 
The werefox can charm any one normal or giant animal for one 
day. A creature or person who saves vs. Spell willnot be charmed. 




Once a creature or person is charmed, it will remain charmed for 
that day, even if the werefOx changes form. The charm ability can 
be used only three times per day. For example, a werefox could try 
to charm two humans and one animal in the same day. 




Werefoxes are clever and cunning. They live mainly by their wits. If 
combat is goingagainst them they will prefer to trick or bribe their 
opponent rather than fight to the death. 




Polymar 


Armor Class: 9 No. Appearing: 1-2 (1-3) 
Hit Dice: 10* Save As: Fighter: 5 
Move: 60’ (20’) Morale: 10 
Attacks: 3 Treasure Type: B 
Damage: 1-6/1-6/1-6 Alignment: Chaotic 




The polymar is a semi-intelligent creature that can change its 
shape. It can look like any creature with 10 hit dice or less, or any 
object no larger than 100 cubic feet (10’ X 10’ X 1,’ for example). 
The polymar gains no special abilities by changing. 




This change ability is physical, not magical. Thus a detect magic 
spell will not detect the polymar. The change, however, is not 
perfect. Characters, including NPCs, have the same chance to 
detect the polymar as they do to find secret doors. Thus, elves are 
more likely to notice polymars than other character classes. If the 
polymar is not detected before it attacks, it will attack with 
surprise. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




27 




GLOSSARY 




abyss. An abyss is a deep crack or bottomless pit in the earth. 




balance. A balance is an instrument used for weighing. It has two 
small pans hanging from either end of a balancing crossbar. When 
equal weights are placed in both pans, the crossbar will be level. 




brazier. A container for hot coals. 




catacomb. A catacomb is an underground tunnel, often usedas a 
burial place. 




carapace. A carapace is a hard, shell-like covering that protects 
the bodies of certain animals (like beetles). 




dais. A dais isa raised platform, onwhicha throneor seat of honor 
is placed. 




desecrate. To desecrate is to destroy the ceremonial purity of a 
holy place, making it unfit as a place of worship. 




divan. A divan is a large, low couch, usually without arm rests or 
back. 




haunt. A haunt is a ghost or a strange image. 




mosaic. A mosaic is a picture made by setting small bits of colored 
stone or glass into mortar. 




niche. A niche is a small open hollow in a wall, usually holding a 
statue or vase. 




pallet. A pallet is a straw bed or mattress. 




pedestal. A pedestal is ashort column, usually supporting a vase, 
statue, or similar. 




pyre. A pyre is a pile of wood used to burn bodies. 




sarcophagus. A sarcophagus is a stone coffin, especially one 
found in a large tomb. It usually holds a smaller wooden coffin. 




stalactite. A stalactite is a piece of stone that looks like an icicle 
hanging from the ceiling of acave. A stalactite is formed by dripping 
water that contains lime. 




stalagmite. A stalagmite is a piece of stone that looks like an 
upside down icicle pointing up from the ground in a cave. A 
stalagmite is formed by water that contains lime dripping from 
above. 




step-pyramid. A step-pyramid is a pyramid made of several dis- 
tinct levels, each smaller than the one below it. 




tier. In this module, it means one “step” of the pyramid. 




urn. An urn is a vase often used to hold the ashes of the dead. 




“49 




50 




READY-TO-PLAY CHARACTERS 




The following first level characters can be used as player charac- 
ters or NPCs. Armor Class and hit points have already been 
adjusted for Dexterity and Constitution. These characters can be 




CLASS AChp S_ I W D C Ch gp Weapon/Armor 




Cleric 3 5 9 11 14* 14 11 13 90 mace/chain mail 
+ shield 


Cleric 5 4 12 8 17* 8 11 10 110 mace/chain mail 
+ shield 


Cleric 4 6 13* 9 13* 10 14 11 80 mace/chain mail 
+ shield 


Dwarf 5 7 14* 11 11 8 15 8 90 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Dwarf 4 7 16* 11 6* 9 14 9 110sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Elf 3 5 13* 14 9 13 9 12 120 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Spell: magic missile 


Elf 4 6 12 16 10 11 13 15 100 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 
Spell: sleep 


Fighter 4 6 17* 10 6* 10 12 9 90 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Fighter 2 7 14* 11 10 12 12 13 100 sword/plate mail 
+ shield 


Fighter 4 8 15* 10 11 10 14 9 80 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Halfling 4 6 16* 11 7* 9 15 10 90 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Halfling 3 7 13* 12 11 13 13 12 90 sword/chain mail 
+ shield 


Magic 8 2 12 13 9 13 10 12 110 dagger/none 


user Spell: sleep 


Magic- 9 4 6* 15 12 9 12 8 80 dagger/none 


user Spell: magic missile 


Magic 9 3 7* 16 8* 10 11 14 80 dagger/none 


user Spell: sleep 


Thief 5 3 14* 12 10 16 9 10 80 sword/leather 
armor 


Thief 6 4 10 9 10 15 9 13 100 sword/leather 
armor 


Thief 6 4 12 10 8* 13 13 9 130sword/leather 
armor 




*Special bonus or penalty. See the D&D Basic rule book, p. B7. 
117-T-9048 




28 




made higher level by rolling the extra hit dice and adding any 
Constitution bonuses for each level above first. 




STANDARD EQUIPMENT PACKS 




Normally, the characters will equip themselves using the gold 
provided. To set up more quickly, ignore the gold and use the 
standard equipment packs instead. The players copy one pack 
type (thieves and clerics must take Pack C) and they are ready to 
go! 




PACK A PACK B PACK C 


Backpack Backpack Backpack 


Large sack 2 Large sacks 4 Small sacks 


Lantern 6 Torches Holy Symbol (cleric) OR 
2 Oil Flasks 3 Oil Flasks Thiefs Tools (thief) OR 
Tinderbox Tinderbox Vial Holy Water (others) 
12Iron Spikes _10’ Pole 12 Iron Spikes 


Small Hammer 50’ Rope 50’ Rope 


Waterskin* Waterskin* Waterskin* 


Normal Rations* Normal Rations* Normal Rations* 


5 gp Mirror 




*The waterskins are all empty at the start of the adventure and 
the rations have been eaten. 




CREDITS 


Designer: Tom Moldvay 


Development: Tom Moldvay, Jon Pickens 


Editing: Harold Johnson, Jon Pickens 


Art: Jim Holloway, Harry Quinn, Stephen D. Sullivan 




Playtesting: Dave Cook, Helen Cook, Clint Johnson, Steve Kas- 
zar, Bill Wilkerson, Jeff Wyndham, and The Kent State University 
Gamer’s Guild 




Special Thanks: To Jon Pickens for his invaluable assistance 




If you have any rules questions, please write to TSR. Ask the 
questions so they can be answered by a “yes,” “no,” or short 
phrase. You must include a self-addressed, stamped envelope. 
Write to: TSR Hobbies, Inc., PO Box 756, Lake Geneva, WI 
53147, ATTN: Rules Editor. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




le GS Pe eR SES eA ESI 




YE FAST PACK 
PACK C 




PACK A PACK B 




Backpack 




Backpack Backpack 




Large Sack 2 Large Sacks . 4 Small Sacks 




Lantern 6 Torches Holy Symbol (cleric) OR 
2 Oil Flasks 3 Oil Flasks Thief’s Tools (thief) OR 
Vial Holy Water (other) 




Tinderbox 




Tinderbox 




12 Iron Spikes 10’ Pole 12 Iron Spikes 




Small Hammer 50’ Rope 50’ Rope 




Waterskin Waterskin Waterskin 




Normal Rations Normal Rations Normal Rations 




Mirror 




5 gp 




COST: 42 gp 




—_ - 




COST: 38 gp COST: 32 gp 




onicinaL L ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE Lost city 




SDL DEO SELECTED LLL SELLA DID 




LEE LEDC ARETE LEE EEE IE RE OOM TBE SPEEE ELIE ALE ALTE SEIDEL EEE TIELEEET  EIONTNNR ETESTETOEER P 




on See 




26 




ot 




KEY 




Hole in Floor 
and Ceiling 




Hole in Ceiling 




in Floor 




Trap Door . 
[| Trap | Slide 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTy 




7 




Hinged Floor 
Section 




mw 
IS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES 




REIMCARNATED e THE LOST CiTy 




This item is only one of the many popular playing aids for DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Fantasy Adventure Game produced by 
TSR Hobbies, Inc. Other playing aids for the D&D® game system currently include: 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Basic Set (contains everything DMs and players need to get started, detailing character creation, 
spells, and dungeon levels 1-3). 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Expert Set (designed to be used with the Basic Set, the Expert Set covers higher-level 
characters, deeper dungeon levels, and adventures in wilderness areas). 




Dungeon Module B1 (In Search of the Unknown) 


Dungeon Module B2 (The Keep on the Borderlands) 


Dungeon Module B3 (Palace of the Silver Princess) 


Dungeon Module X1 (The Isle of Dread) 


Dungeon Module X2 (Castle Amber - Chateau d’ Amberville) 


Monster and Treasure Assortment, Sets One to Three Levels One Through Nine (makes the job of stocking dungeon levels easy) 


Dungeon Geomorphs (allows the DM to create thousands of different dungeon levels by arranging the geomorphs in different 
combinations) 


D&D Player Character Record Sheets (allows players to record all important information about their characters in any 
easy-to-use format). 




Releases of additional items relating to the D&D game system are planned for the future. TSR Hobbies publishes a complete line 
of games, playing aids, and gaming accessories available from better hobby, game, and department stores nationwide. 




ISBN 0-935696-55-5 DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks of TSR Hobbies, Inc. 394-52498-5TSR0550 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




e DUNGEONS 
DRAGONS’ 




Basic Game Adventure 




The Lost City 




by Tom Moldvay 




TSR, Inc. 
PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION™ 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D and PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST CiTYy 




e DUNGEONS 
Go DRAGONS: 




Basic Game Adventure 




The Lost City 




by Tom Moldvay 




The ancient desert holds many secrets, like the 
mighty civilization that long ago disappeared 
into its timeless sands without a trace, its people 
never again to feel the scorching blaze of the 
sun's fire or the stinging bite of windblown sand. 




Who were they? Where did they go? None can 
say. Certainly not the master of the caravan who 
hired your group as guards some days before! 




By day, armed caravans like yours ply the routes 
between Ylaruam, capital of the Emirate, and 
lands surrounding the great Alasiyan Desert. By 
night, old tales and the brooding weight of ages 
past lie heavily on your camps. 




The days have been hot and dusty, the nights 
cold and lonely. The trip so far has been without 
incident. Yet something waits, perhaps over the 
next dune, perhaps beyond the horizon. And 
there is something in the air... 




This module is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS Basic Set, and cannot be played with 
out the D&D Basic rules produced by TSR, Inc. 




© 1982 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 




TSR, Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 
POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB1 4AD 
WI 53147 United Kingdom 




ISBN 0-935696-55-5 
394-52498-5TSRO550 




| 
46363"09049 




9049XXX1401 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ANN ER 




CHAPTER THREE 
Background 




his adventure module is a fifth edition conversion 
4 of the classic dungeon module B4: The Lost City, 


originally published in 1982. The Lost City was 
designed as a classic dungeon crawl through an ancient 
step pyramid*, but the lower levels of the pyramid were 
only outlined with the briefest of notes to encourage a be- 
ginning Dungeon Master (DM) to design their own dun- 
geons and stock them with monsters and treasures. This 
section of the adventure has been fully designed as part 
of this conversion. The DM is still strongly encouraged 
to review appendix A of the Dungeon Masters Guide, spe- 
cifically the sections on stocking a dungeon and dungeon 
dressing, prior to running this adventure, should even 
more content be desired. Finally, the Lost City below the 
Lower Pyramid is a sandbox adventure locale that has 
been detailed in this conversion. 




The upper part of the pyramid (chapter 4) is designed 
for characters of 1st and 2nd level. The lower part of the 
pyramid (chapter 5) is designed for characters of levels 
3rd through Sth (and higher). The original adventure 
was intended for a group of six to 10 characters, but the 
fifth edition conversion is suitable for a group of four to 
six characters. Note especially that the characters have no 
way to replace equipment or supplies except by finding 
items while exploring the Lost City. 




If you plan to participate in this module as a player, 
please stop reading at this point! The information in the 
rest of this module is for your DM only, so that she may 
guide you and other players through the adventure. KnowI- 
edge of the contents of this module will spoil the surprises 
and the excitement of the game for everyone concerned. 




NOTES FOR THE DUIGEOTr 
MASTER 




The Lost City is a dungeon adventure module in six chap- 
ters. This chapter is the Background, which outlines 
the adventure, contains useful information on the set- 
ting, and details how the DM can start the adventure 




Taare ini SESS ST 




A NAMA RIE FAS RE SEITE SEES Nt ITE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED ° THE Lost city. "4 




and customize encounters to suit the characters. Chapter 
4 describes the Upper Pyramid encounters. Chapter 5 
lays out the Lower Pyramid, fully detailed for this fifth 
edition conversion. Chapter 6 presents set encounters 
throughout the Lost City, located in a huge cavern un- 
der the pyramid. Chapters 7 and 8 describe several new 
adventure locations designed for the fifth edition of this 
module. The various appendices contain new spells and 
magic items, full stat blocks for monsters introduced in 
this module, nonplayer characters (NPCs), pre-generated 
characters, player handouts, and maps. 




Before beginning the adventure, please read the module 
thoroughly to become familiar with the details of The Lost 
City, including the extensive backstory, information on 
the Cynidiceans who dwell in the underground city, as 
well as the details on the various factions in the city and 
their motivations. To run the adventure efficiently, you 
need the fifth edition D&D core rulebooks: the Players 
Handbook, Dungeon Masters Guide, and Monster Man- 
ual. The Monster Manual contains full statistics blocks 
for many of the creatures encountered in The Lost City. 
Stat blocks for creatures that don’t appear in the Monster 
Manual are in appendix B, and details on the fully devel- 
oped NPCs are in appendix C. When you see a creature’s 
name in bold, that visual cue directs you to the look up 
the full statistics block in the Monster Manual, or the text 
will direct you to the appropriate appendix. Spells and 
normal equipment are detailed in the Players Handbook. 
Magic items are described in the Dungeon Masters Guide. 
New spells and magic items introduced in this adventure 




are fully detailed in appendix A. 




In the encounter keys, the encounter number matches 
the location of the encounter on the maps. Encounter 
sections that appear in italics are designed to be read 
aloud to the players when their characters first arrive at 
a detailed encounter, or under a specific circumstance as 
described in the text. More experienced DMs are encour- 
aged to paraphrase or embellish these read-aloud sections 




SS Sr SATE 




SiMessatttare SEE SITS pte 




as they feel comfortable. The DM is encouraged to use 
not only visual descriptions, but audible, olfactory, or 
even tactile cues when describing an adventure site for 
the first time. 




e ® 
WHaT DOI SEE? WHat DO I 




HEAR? 




These adventures beneath the desert take place in 
long-forgotten locations, areas home to a lost civiliza- 
tion and bereft of sunlight. Without the use of magic, 
the characters may have difficulty seeing in the dark- 
ness and understanding the Cynidicean language. It's 
up to the Dungeon Master how to help the players 
work through these encounters, as an occasional bit of 
“hand-waving’ may be required in certain roleplaying 
situations. Wherever possible the spirit of the original 
modulehas been maintained in this newconversion. 




For example, in the Upper Pyramid (chapter 4) ghostly 
images of an ancient king and queen talk to the char- 
acters. Presumably they are speaking the forgotten 
Cynidicean tongue, and since it is critical for the PCs 
to comprehend their words, it is suggested that rather 
than get hung up on technicalities, they simply be al- 
lowedto understand. 




Regarding the pervasive darkness, the room descrip- 
tions tend to assume the characters can see clearly 
out to distances of 100 feet or so. There are some crea- 
tures—like sprites and white apes in the Upper Pyra- 
mid, and even a hill giant in the Goblin Caves (chap- 
ter 7)—that cannot see in the dark yet there they are, 
dwelling in or exploring unlit subterranean environ- 
ments. Here again, the suggestion would be to simply 
run with it. 




—ooEoEOEOEeEeEeEeEeEeEee 




The other sections of the encounter contain information 
the players should not know in advance but may learn as 
they explore the area, interacting with the monsters or 
NPCs, or delving into the backstory of the adventure. 
These key features are presented in order of prominence, 
or in the order that the characters are likely to encoun- 
ter them. This is by design, in effort to assist the DM in 
processing the information at a glance while running the 
game. Before the adventure (or a particular encounter) 
begins, the DM should decide what information to give 
the players (and how they can get it) and what informa- 




tion to hold back. 




PSTN MAN ETRE 




SET = ee RTE ae 




oriGinaL L ADVENTURES REICARIATED e THE LOST city 




At the end of this chapter is a glossary of terms used 
throughout this book that the DM or players might not 
be familiar with. Words listed in the glossary will have an 
asterisk (*) after them the first time they appear. 




eo YC 10 
ABBREVIATIONS 




AC=Armor Class 
DC = Difficulty Class 
XP = experience points 




= lawful good 
CG = chaotic good 
NG = neutral good 


= lawful neutral 




pp = platinum piece(s) 


gp = gold piece(s) N =neutral 


ep = electrum piece(s) CN = chaotic neutral 
sp = silver piece(s) = lawful evil 




CE = chaotic evil 
NE =neutral evil 
DM = Dungeon Master 




cp = copper piece(s) 
NPC=nonplayer character 
PC = player character 




oe—____________e 




This fifth edition conversion has been designed for a 
party of four to six Ist-level characters. A good mix of 
character classes, including at least two fighter-types, an 
arcane spellcaster, and a divine spellcaster would be ideal. 
A ranger and/or a druid would be particularly suitable to 
aid in overcoming the survival challenges of this adven- 
ture, should the DM elect to use the “Suggested Players’ 
Background” section below. 




If the players do not already have characters, the pre-gen- 
erated characters in appendix C may be used. If the party 
has few members or is lacking some of the typical classes 
for a balanced team, the DM may allow NPC retainers 
to strengthen the party. The Dungeon Master is also en- 
couraged to adjust the challenge of the encounters based 
on the relative power of the characters and the skill of 
the players to provide a fair and exciting adventure. The 
end of this chapter includes notes and details on how to 
adjust encounters into suitable challenges. 




Sometimes a new player will want to join the party, or 
a player will need to replace a character who has been 
killed. The pre-generated characters can be used for this, 
or the player can create a level-appropriate character on 
their own. The DM can always treat new characters as 
wandering adventurers or other members of the party’s 
original caravan (if the “Suggested Players’ Background” 
section is used). As this caravan was scattered in a sand- 
storm, it is always possible that other characters may 
chance upon the Lost City. The new player character can 




SA PL PME MPAA 




Se 




RA TEE 




OEP a TR aN TINT 




ST lh SR SM Ta 




(WR AEe SASS RIE NT IIE TT TESTO LE IEE TET ECE LLL LEER TE NOS NCCE ERLE IEEE Ti 




oRiGinaL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE Lost city 




ESOS meTenate oT a 




Tg TTT TPMT TTT et 




even be a prisoner of one of the factions, or of one of the 
humanoid bands that lair near the Lost City. 




This is a long-term adventure, designed to be complet- 
ed in several sessions of play. Successful characters will 
probably reach the 3rd level of experience by the time 
they are finished with the upper tiers* of the pyramid. 
Should they continue their quest into the depths of the 
Lower Pyramid, they will likely reach Sth or 6th level 
by its conclusion. The DM should not move the action 
too quickly, but instead give the players ample short rests 
between encounters and long rests to regain spells and 
powers between sessions. 




As the characters delve deeper beneath the shifting sands 
of the desert, the challenges get even more difficult. The 
DM can track experience points normally or use the 
milestone progression as described on p. 261 of the Dun- 
geon Master’ Guide. For optimal encounter balance, the 
characters levels should match the appropriate section of 
the adventure, as summarized on the table below: 




SUGGESTED CHARACTER LEVELS 




Chapter Description Suggested PC Levels 
Chapter 4 The Upper Pyramid 1st Level 
(Tiers 1-3) 
Chapter 4 The Upper Pyramid 2nd Level 
(Tiers 4-5) 
Chapter 5 The Lower Pyramid 3rd Level 
(Tiers 6-7) 
Chapter 5 The Lower Pyramid 4th Level 
(Tiers 8-9) 
Chapter 5 The Lower Pyramid 5th Level or higher 
(Tier 10) 
Chapter 6 The Lost City 4th to 5th Level 
Chapter 7 The Goblin Caves 4th to 5th Level 
Chapter 8 The Lower Cata- 6th Level or higher 
combs 




It is likely that the characters will not be able to defeat the 
final enemy in the Lower Pyramid on the first encounter. 
But if the DM wishes to expand the adventure further, 
chapters 6, 7, and 8 of the module outline the hidden un- 
derground city and several additional adventuring sites. 
This portion of the adventure is open-ended and is de- 
signed for experienced DMs. The DM can develop these 
into an entire campaign in which the player characters 
find and rebuild a lost civilization, assuming they can de- 
feat the malevolent creature that holds the Cynidiceans as 




SEER 




SRE SE RSS STE 




SASS Sa a TT ARNE scnaectaur as 




PORES EST IS YET 




thralls. Astute characters can forge alliances with factions 
as well as discover knowledge and powerful magic items 
to aid in their quest. 




The Lost City is set in a remote sandy desert wasteland at 
least a week to 10 days’ travel to the nearest settlement of 
note. Although the adventure contained herein assumes a 
trackless sea of sand dunes, the pyramid can exist in any 
isolated valley in an arid rocky terrain of the DM’s home 
campaign. If the Forgotten Realms setting is used by the 
DM, the great Anauroch Desert is a suitable location, 
as would be the edge of Raurin, the Dust Desert. In the 
World of Greyhawk, the Sea of Dust is a logical setting, 
although with some modifications, the Bright Desert or 
the Barren Wastes could work. In Eberron, the Lost City 
should be in a sandy stretch of the Demon Wastes, south 
of the Lake of Fire. If the DM’s campaign is set in Mys- 
tara (otherwise known as the Known World, as depicted 
in OAR #2: The Isle of Dread), the Lost City can be any- 
where in the Alasiyan Desert. 




Dimml’S BACKGROVITID 




THE FALL OF CYNIDICES 




Centuries ago, Cynidicea was the capital of a rich and 
fertile kingdom. Its people reclaimed much land from 
the desert via an extensive network of irrigation ditches, 
especially during the reign of King Alexander—the last 
and greatest king of Cynidicea. In the years preceding 
King Alexander’s death, a huge pyramid was raised in his 
honor, the largest and most important building in the 
city. Upon his death, he was laid to rest in the great struc- 
ture along with his Queen, Zenobia. The digging con- 
tinued until a massive cavern was located, complete with 
an underground lake of pure water. Greedy to plumb the 
depths of more bounties, the excavating pushed on. 




The fall of Cynidicea began on the day that workers, dig- 
ging under the great pyramid, chanced upon the lair of a 
strange monster called Zargon. Zargon was roughly hu- 
manoid in shape, though larger than most humans. In 
place of arms and legs it had 12 tentacles. Its head was 
that of a giant lizard, with a large black horn in the mid- 




dle of its forehead. 




Zargon slaughtered most of the workers, yet its hunger 
was not satiated. Soon it began hunting prey at night 
through the very streets of Cynidicea. This became known 
as the Time of Rage. The city guard valiantly attempted 




seam ana 




Be 
seca —, 
~ 4 




to kill the monster, but their attacks were largely ineffec- 
tual. At last, the city rulers began sending criminals from 
the jails into the pyramid for Zargon to feed on in the 
hopes that the brutal slayings would end. 




In time, a strange cult arose that worshipped Zargon as a 
god. The cult viewed the monster’s victims as religious sac- 
rifices. As long as the sacrifices were regular, the monster 
was content to wallow in its slimy lair at the base of the 
Lower Pyramid, “adored” (more like feared) by its people. 
The worship of the ancient gods of Cynidicea—Gorm, 
Usamigaras, and Madarua—was forsaken in favor of the 
worship of the monster Zargon. Eventually, most of the 
citizens of Cynidicea worshipped it, while the few scat- 
tered worshippers of the old gods retreated into hiding. 




The worshippers of Zargon (called Zargonites) began to 
look for strange pleasures to escape their dismal existence 
as the thralls of a malevolent monster. They sought obliv- 
ion in rare wines and bizarre drugs as a form of escape. 
Workers no longer repaired the irrigation ditches, and they 
fell into disrepair. Soon the arid desert reclaimed the fer- 




, ai 




tile agricultural land and no crops would grow. The king’s 
heir went missing, the city’s leaders fell into a drug-induced 
stupor, and all began to decay. Soon, the army lost its dis- 
cipline and disbanded. People outside the city rebelled or 
moved away as chaos spread outward from Cynidicea. This 
made the surface city ripe for invasion, and eventually bar- 




barian warriors stormed over the walls and destroyed the 
city. The only people of Cynidicea who survived its de- 
struction were those who had fled underground to the vast 
catacombs* under the city. There, led by Priests of Zargon, 
the Cynidiceans tried to rebuild the city. 




The surviving people based their new life around a huge 
underground lake fed by channels cut through solid rock. 
Built in the reign of King Alexander, the lake had been 
the original city’s water supply. On its shores, the peo- 
ple grew mushrooms and other edible fungi. They built 
houses using stones from the ruins above. The new un- 
derground city was much smaller than the ancient capi- 
tal, but it was safer because it was hidden beneath the de- 
sert sands. Above, drifting sands covered the original city, 
and Cynidicea was lost in the vastness of the desert. It was 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AIRE LERNER ANTE RC EY 




i EAE Nt GN a We 




easy for the Zargonites to assume control of the desper- 
ate population. With aid of a renegade mind flayer and 
his darkling allies in the Lower Catacombs, the Priests of 
Zargon developed a method to poison the underground 
water supply, crucial for the population’s survival. 




Decades ago, a pair of famous adventurers came to the 
Lost City from distant lands and managed to unite the 
factions briefly and destroy Zargon. Confident their duty 
was complete, the glory seekers moved on to their next 
great adventure, and disappeared into the vast North, 
never to be heard from again. But these brazen heroes 
never finished the deed of destroying Zargon’s Horn, and 
within weeks, the Returner was back, although weakened, 
and exacted its revenge on the populace again through 
the use of humanoid allies. Defeated again, the factions 
retreated into hiding. 




| 
SOURCE MATERIAL 




Although much of the backstory presented in this 
chapter was gleaned from the original adventure 
module, we also incorporated some of the additional 
background developed by Michael Mearls in an arti- 
cle that appeared in the January 2004 issue of Dragon 
magazine, “Mystara: Return to the Lost City.” 




CYNIDICEANS 




Generation after generation of Cynidiceans have lived 
out their lives underground. Though still human, their 
skin has become very pale and pasty. Their hair is now 
bone-white or sometimes light gray. The Cynidiceans 
have developed darkvision in their new environment, but 
also a sensitivity to bright light, such as daylight. 




The Cynidiceans are a dying race with each new genera- 
tion smaller than the last. Most Cynidiceans have forgot- 
ten that an outside world exists, living most of their iso- 
lated lives in subterranean caves or buildings falling into 
disrepair, often in drug-induced dreams of fantasy and 
whimsy. The times when they seem normal, tending their 
fields and animals, are becoming fewer and fewer as the 
dreams replace reality. Their unusual costumes and masks 




3 8) 
THE ELIXIR OF FANTASY 




This potent poison was developed decades ago by the 
Zargonites to control the general populace. But the 
mind flayer Cephalakor and his darkling allies, ac- 
complished in alchemical crafting, developed a large- 
scale processing of the darkspores, along with the 
calculations needed to determine the dose that must 
be administered to the underground water supply of 
the Cynidiceans. The resulting low-dose poison has a 
cumulative effect on the imbiber. The dose rate and 
timing to spike the water supply are controlled by the 
Zargonites to effectively subjugate the Cynidiceans. 




Elixir of Fantasy (Ingested). If imbibed before dilu- 
tion, the imbiber must succeed on a DC 20 Constitu- 
tion saving throw or enter a dream-like state and be- 
come lost in vivid fanciful fantasies. This effect lasts 
for 8 hours. Over time the imbiber begins to revisit the 
same fantasies. 




If the elixir is diluted into a liquid, the Constitution 
saving throw DCstarts at 5, but increases by 1 for every 
week the diluted form is ingested. The save DC resets 
to 5 if the tainted water is not consumed for at least 1 
week. 




Regardless of how the elixir is consumed, while un- 
der the effects of the dream-like state, the target has 
disadvantage on all initiative rolls, as well as saving 
throws pertaining to illusion spells and effects. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City yf 61 




only strengthen the connection with their dream worlds. 
This drug-induced state is fostered by the Zargonites and 
their allies hiding in the Lower Catacombs. A mind flayer 
outcast named Cephalakor has developed an alchemical 
process to mass produce a distilled byproduct from a rare 
type of fungus called a darkspore. Called the elixir of fan- 
tasy (see sidebar), this hallucinogenic substance is care- 
fully dosed into the underground lake. The result is an 
enthralled population that has all but given up hope of 
resisting its oppressors. 




Every Cynidicean wears a stylized mask, usually of an 
animal or human face. Some are made of wood, some of 
papier-maché, and some even composed of metal. They 
are decorated with beads, bones, feathers, and jewels. 
Most Cynidiceans wear fancy clothes and flashy jewelry 
and carry shortswords. Some even paint their bodies with 
bright colors. See appendix C for more information on 
the Cynidiceans, and some typical encounters and names. 




FACTIONS OF CYNIDICES 




A few Cynidiceans are nearly normal, resisting the urge 
to succumb to the falsehood offered by the drugs. These 
Cynidiceans are trying to restore the worship of the old 
gods: Gorm, Usamigaras, and Madarua. They hope to 
stop the slow death of their society and regain the past 
glory of Cynidicea, by opposing Zargon, and embracing 
the old worship. But their members are few and scattered. 
Since they generally don’t trust or even get along with the 
other factions, Zargon’s faithful have kept them unorgan- 
ized, and generally inept at instituting radical change. 




The DM should consider reviewing the “Factions and 
Organizations” section in chapter 1 of the Dungeon Mas- 
ters Guide (pp. 21-23). If the renown rules presented 
therein are utilized, all characters will start at 0 renown 
when they first join a faction. Full members of a faction 
can rise in ranks as the DM feels appropriate, although 
this will take many game sessions and involve several side 
quests to further the particular faction’s goals. 




The Brotherhood of Gorm. Their god, Gorm, is the god 
of war, storms, and justice. The followers of Gorm are male 
fighters of lawful alignment. All wear golden masks of the 
face of Gorm, a long-haired, bearded man with a stern 
gaze. Each Brother also wears iron chain mail over a blue 
tunic. Under the armor, each has a small blue lightning 
bolt tattooed on his right shoulder (see Handout #1 in 
appendix D). The Brothers believe in justice tempered by 
mercy. They worship Gorm on the fourth day of each week 




[cc i ELLE EE TLE 




ORIGINAL AD 




Onna naR RSA RAI 




VENTURES REINCARNMATED e 




} fh, f 
oint : 


: Mire 
pes 


and consider lightning storms that frequently occur in the 




desert, and magically-produced lightning, to be holy. 




Motto: “Justice shall be swift, like a sandstorm.” 


Beliefs: The Brotherhood’s beliefs can be summarized as 
follows: 


¢ Might makes right. 


¢ Punishment shall fit the crime, yet be merciful. 


¢ Rules are essential to order. 


Goals: Overthrow the reign of Zargon and return the Cy- 
nidicean people to their former glory. 




The Magi of Usamigaras. This faction worships Usami- 
garas, the god of healing, messengers, and thieves. They 
are all neutral wizards, wearing silver masks of the face of 
Usamigaras, the smiling child. The Magi also carry silvered 
daggers and wear rainbow-colored robes. The left palm of 
each Magi is marked with small silver lines in the shape of 
a five-pointed star (see Handout #2 in appendix D). The 
Magi are usually friendly toward clerics, thieves, elves, and 
arcane spellcasters, but look down upon fighters, dwarves, 
and halflings. Usamigaras is worshipped on certain days 
when the heavenly stars and planets are aligned, as de- 
scribed in texts recorded when they dwelled on the surface. 
The Magi use these texts, along with complicated calcula- 
tions, to determine when holy days occur. The Magi are 
eager to trade magic items for inscribed spells as most have 




been lost during the plight to the Lost City. 




RTE NH 




Motto: “Knowledge is true power, and always will be.” 


Beliefs: The Magi’s beliefs can be summarized as follows: 


¢ If it’s not written down, it never happened. - 


¢ The answer to any conundrum is always right there. You 
just need to know how to look for it. 


¢ Study an enemy to learn his weakness. 


Goals: Discover Zargon’s weakness and exploit it to free 


the Cynidicean people from its heinous slimy grasp. 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua. The Maidens wor- 
ship Madarua, goddess of birth, death, and the chang- 
ing seasons. They are neutral female martial experts and 
of the three factions are the most openly aggressive to 
the Zargonites. The Warrior Maidens wear bronze masks 
of Madarua, a beautiful woman. They also wear bronze 
chain mail armor over green tunics. Each Maiden has a 
small, sickle-shaped scar on the inside of her left wrist 
(see Handout #3 in appendix D). Madarua has a special 
holy day at the beginning of each of the four seasons. 




Motto: “Fear is a shackle that can bind us to inaction. 


Throw down those shackles and swing a sword!” 


Beliefs: The Maidens’ beliefs can be summarized as follows: 


* Actions, not words, define those who are great. 


¢ Strength comes from within. 


¢ Death is simply the end of a chapter, not the whole 
book. Birth is the beginning of a new chapter. 


Goals: Destroy Zargon and its followers to pave the path 


for the rebirth of Cynidicean civilization. 




The three factions have never seen eye-to-eye, and 
Zargon’s agents continue to foster this distrust. Each 
faction stubbornly assumes only its members know the 
proper way to restore the lost greatness of Cynidicea. Of- 
ten, when members of different factions meet, they argue 
or even come to blows and shed blood in open conflict. 
It is possible for the three factions to cooperate, but such 
cooperation is rare. 




The bickering between the three factions and their at- 
tempts to restore sanity to Cynidicean society give the 
DM the chance to add quite a bit of social interaction to 
this adventure. While the factions can be played as simple 
monsters with treasure, the DM and players can have a 
lot of fun with the plots and feuding of the factions. If 
this is done, the DM should decide in advance what the 
faction members may say or do if the party tries to talk, 
attack, or wait to see what the NPCs do first. The DM 
is encouraged to review the “Social Interaction” section 
in chapter 8 of the Players Handbook (pp. 185-186) if 




this campaign direction is desired. It is important for the 




ORIGINAL ADVE 




TURES R 




DM to avoid forcing the action to a pre-set conclusion 
regarding the factions and their motives. The actions of 
the players must be able to make a difference. 




If the player characters join one of the factions, it will 
be easier for them to get supplies and rest between ad- 
ventures. All the factions may accept PCs as members. 
The Brotherhood of Gorm accepts male fighters, rangers, 
and even paladins of dwarven, halfling, and elven stock as 
full members. The Brotherhood distrusts half-orcs, drag- 
onborn, and gnomes. The Magi of Usamigaras accept 
any wizards, sorcerers, warlocks, or even rogues as full 
members. The Magi prefer humans and elves, as they are 
natural wielders of the arcane arts, but have no particular 
dislike of other races. The Warrior Maidens accept female 
martial characters such as fighters, rangers, and monks as 
full members—although human, elves, and halflings are 
preferred, as other races are less trusted. 




Also, any character may become a lesser member of 
a faction, if desired. Factions will not do as much for 
lesser members, and a lesser member can never rise to a 
powerful rank within a faction (maximum renown score 
of 10, if those rules are used). The DM should decide 
how much a faction will do for its members based on 
the circumstances. 




The factions present the characters with an opportunity to 
face challenges that would typically be above their average 
level. If the PCs continue the adventure throughout the 
locales in the Lost City and the Lower Catacombs, any aid 
will become crucial to their success. It should even be pos- 
sible for the characters to unite the factions to overthrow 
the Zargonites and their allies in the deep below. 




The Priests of Zargon are a fourth faction. They are 
found mainly in areas outside the basic adventure. The 
Priests of Zargon serve the evil monster Zargon and con- 
trol the underground city, but mostly through humanoid 
allies, as they are not plentiful. They often wear blue or 
purple robes and wield maces. 




Motto: “Zargon is our true master!” 


Beliefs: The Priest’s beliefs can be summarized as follows: 


* All shall bow to the might of Zargon. Or they shall die! 


¢ Deception can be a powerful ally, if used wisely. 


¢ Defeating Zargon is but a temporary setback. For he is 
the Returner! 


Goals: Protect Zargon and maintain its cruel apprecia- 


tion through ample sacrifices. Keep the Cynidicean peo- 


ple under its slimy tentacles of oppression. 




cee aro 




EINMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




SS NEES TORT ON LEE NT TI 




WANDERING ENCOUNTERS In 
THE DESERT 




If the characters depart the adventure site and attempt 
to trek across the desert, this table can be used. Wan- 
dering monsters are encountered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. 
Check for wandering monsters once every 3 hours of 
exploration. If a wandering encounter is indicated, the 
exact monster is determined by rolling percentile dice on 
the table. The table includes the monster encountered, a 
recommended number appearing, experience point (XP) 
value per creature, the source, and any additional notes. 
For a more detailed description on each encounter, refer 
to the section below. Based on the notes below, the DM 
should determine how far away creatures are at the start 
of the encounter. Alternatively, it can be rolled randomly 




as 4d6 x 10 feet. 




The DM should use logic when rolling wandering mon- 
sters, or if desired select an appropriate encounter. The 
same is true for creating encounters that are a suitable 
challenge for the characters. Thus, inclusion of the XP 
value on the tables. Using the XP amounts, the DM can 
adjust the number of monsters encountered, or replace 
with a similar, more challenge-appropriate monster via 
an XP budget. This depends on the level of the characters 
and the number of characters. Consult the “Designing 
Appropriately Challenging Encounters” section below 
for advice on how to do this. 




WANDERING MONSTERS: DESERT 




BROWN DRAGON 




Dagothra, young brown dragon (see appendix C) oc- 
casionally leaves his underground lair (see Cavern E in 
chapter 8) to hunt for fresh prey. His favorite food is 
horse flesh and he is willing to bargain for it. His favorite 
ploy is to hide under the sand—except for his head, 
which he conceals under a blue dragon skull. He address- 
es the characters in Common, posing as the ghost of a 
powerful blue dragon and offers to trade information— 
perhaps on a nearby water source, or the oasis lair of a 
band of desert raiders—in exchange for a horse. He does 
not accept camel flesh in a trade, as he finds it distaste- 
ful. Should a suitable trade not be possible, he attacks, 
preferring to grab a target and pull it under the sand in 
the hopes of suffocating it. If the characters inflict 40 or 
more hit points of damage, the dragon flees by burrowing 
deep into the sand, eventually returning to his lair. If the 
characters encounter him again, he is hostile and attacks 
without hesitation. 




CARAVAN 




The characters come across a caravan train making steady 
progress toward their destination many miles away. The 
caravan train includes 4d4 camels, tended by one human 
drover (commoner) for every three camels. The cara- 
van is led by 1d4 human merchants (commoners) who 
employ 3d4 human mercenaries. These mercenaries are 
guards, except they only carry shields (AC 13) and wield 
shortswords (+3 to hit, 4 [1d6 + 1] piercing damage) and 
shortbows (+3 to hit, range 80/320 ft., 4 [1d6 + 1] pierc- 
ing damage). 




D100 Encounter #App XP Source Notes 


01-10 Caravan Varies Varies Varies See description 
11-15 Desert raiders Varies Varies Appendix C See description 
16-24 Dust diggers 2d4 200 Appendix B See description 
25-34 Vultures 3d4 10 MM, p. 339 See description 
35-44 Giant sidewinder snakes 1d3 50 MM, p. 327 As giant poisonous snake 
45-59 Vermin Varies Varies Varies See description 
60-69 Giant Gila monster 1 450 Appendix B 


70-79 Giant sand lizards 1d4+1 50 MM, p. 326 As giant lizard 
80-86 Death dogs 1d2 200 MM, p. 321 


87-91 Thunderherder stampede NA NA Appendix B See description 
92-96 Brown dragon 1 2,300 Appendix C 


97-100 Mirage NA NA NA See description 




LSA SI Ag OES 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ea TEETER EES EEN 




Sec A PR RSL 8 




Each caravan carries 5d4 x 100 gp worth of trade goods 
(see the table below), plus plenty of food and water for 
the entire train for at least one week. They begin any en- 
counter with the characters as indifferent (fearing they 
may be desert raiders), but if swayed to friendly agree to 
share camp and/or trade supplies. 




D6 Trade Goods 
1 Spices and herbs 




Example Goods 




Cinnamon, cloves, pepper 




2: Silk Bolts, robes 
3 Weapons and Spears, daggers, arrows, 
armor shields, leather armor 
Fabrics Cotton, canvas, wool, burlap 
5 Tools Shovels, picks, hammers, 
cookware 
6 Metals Bronze, brass, copper, gold 




There is a 15% chance that the caravan train is actually 
a desert raider party in disguise. See below for details on 
the composition of this raiding party. 




DEATH DOGS 




Death dogs roam the desert wastes either in pairs or soli- 
tarily. These two-headed canines often track prey during 
the daylight hours but prefer to attack in the still of the 
night. Although they fear fire, they fight to the death. 




DESERT RAIDERS 




Numerous bandits and brigands wander the desert look- 
ing for caravans or settlements to attack and plunder. The 
band includes 2d4 + 2 desert raiders (see appendix C) 
riding camels. There are another 1d6 + 1 pack camels 
laden with food, water, tents, and perhaps plunder. The 
raiders are led by a bandit captain (wearing no armor; 
AC 13). There is a 50% chance the desert raiders have 
3d6 x 100 gp worth of trade goods (silk, carpets, jewels, 




etc.) from a successful raid. 




There is a 20% chance that this band is a group of slavers 
led by a jackalwere. The jackalwere uses its sleep gaze to in- 
capacitate targets to facilitate capture. This band already has 
a chain gang of 2d4 human slaves (commoners; although if 
the DM needs a replacement PC this would be the perfect 
opportunity to introduce one). A pack of 3d4 normal jack- 
als shadow this band, loyal to the leader. Should a confron- 
tation occur, these allies enter the fray after 1d4 rounds. In 
addition to the slaves, there is a 20% chance this band has 
2d4 x 100 gp worth of ill-gotten trade goods (as above). 




( “1g tol Gta, age 
>: Te ae iB 




ry ‘ 
y : . i 4 
A 
YS 




S <A IS A at A 
DUST DIGGERS 




The characters stumble (maybe literally) into the hunting 
ground of 2d4 dust diggers (see appendix B) concealed 
under the sand. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) 
or Wisdom (Perception) check, or a passive Perception 
score of 15, reveals the concealment prior to attack. Oth- 
erwise, the dust diggers attack with surprise. There is a 
25% that the encounter is with 1d3 giant dust diggers 
(see appendix B) instead. 




GIANT GILA MONSTER 




The characters wander into the current hunting ground 
of a hungry giant Gila monster (see appendix B). This 
massive lizard hides in a rocky outcropping; it attempts 
to ambush prey with a quick bite and then following up 
with its Poison Breath action. If unsuccessful after a few 
rounds, or if the targets flee, it retreats to its concealed 
niche*. If the lizard is defeated and the characters take 
the time to cut open its gullet, they are rewarded with a 




golden topaz worth 500 gp. 




a EERE IE STS GP WATT ETN ISAS GY OTS SST SST SER SY SNES TS aS pea 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ar Sate Ze EE 




ERNE MRR A 




SSIES 




soe eR APR SIRT PETTERS EN BS TTL TTI 




GIANT SAND LIZARDS 




A pack of tan-colored giant sand lizards (use the statis- 
tics for giant lizards) either hide among the rocks of an 
outcropping or are buried under the sand. The predatory 
lizards attack with a short burst of speed trying to over- 
come opponents in a flurry of snapping jaws. They fight 
to the death. 




GIANT SIDEWINDER SNAKES 




One or more giant sidewinder snakes (use the statistics 
for giant poisonous snakes) are sunning themselves on 
a rock or a patch of warm sand. Startled, the giant snakes 
attack, although if one is reduced to half hit points or 
fewer, it is content to flee across the dunes in its unusual 
mode of locomotion. 




MIRAGE 




The characters discover what appears to be an oasis, 
roughly 1 mile in diameter. The oasis includes several lush 
palm trees surrounding a crystal-clear, spring-fed pool of 
water, perhaps 500 feet across at its widest point. The 
oasis is a powerful illusion, essentially a permanent mi- 
rage arcane effect. Although the illusion includes audible, 
visual, tactile, and olfactory effects, drinking the water 
does not quench one’s thirst, and removing any physical 
element from the 1-mile-diameter location results in the 
component disappearing. 




The purpose and backstory of the illusion, in addition to 
an adventure site, are left to the DM to design, although 
it is recommended that the illusion be hiding a location. 
See the table below for a few ideas on what it could be 
concealing, 




D6 Structure Concealed Possible Encounter 




1 Obelisk Magic portal to a far- 




away location 




2 Temple Haunted by a ghost 


3 Encampment Band of desert raiders 
(see appendix C) 


4 Cave Slumbering adult blue 
dragon 


5 Tomb A mummy 


Gas “Crater An army in magical stasis 




THUNDERHERDER STAMPEDE 




The characters are in the direct path of a thunderous 
stampede of about 60 thunderherders (see appendix B). 
The characters can hear the thundering cacophony a few 
rounds before it arrives, but unless they can get airborne, 
or have some other method of enhanced mobility, they 
become trapped in the stampede for 1d4 + 1 rounds. 
Note that the beasts are not attacking per se, just mov- 
ing from one location to the next and unfortunately the 
characters are in their path. If the characters wait out the 
stampede, the worms disappear into the dunes as quickly 
as they came. 




VERMIN 




A wide variety of vermin inhabit the desert surround- 
ing the Lost City, including some of monstrous size that 
would prey on the characters. Roll 1d8 and consult the 
table below for the type of vermin and the number en- 
countered. These mindless beasts attack out of hunger or 
to defend a lair. They fight to the death and lack any 




treasure. 




D8 _ Encounter #App XP _ Source 
1 Giant oil beetles 2d4 50 Appendix B 
2-4 Giant scorpions 1d3 700 MM, p. 327 
5-7 Giant sand 1d3 +1 200 Appendix B 
spiders 
8 Giant ant lion 1 450 Appendix B 
VULTURES 




Carrion birds are common in the desert. If this encounter 
occurs, a flock of vultures begin to shadow the characters 
for the rest of the daylight hours. They can be observed 
circling overhead, or perhaps perched on a rocky outcrop- 
ping or a massive tree-like cactus. They only attack if the 
characters seem to be weak (such as suffering a few levels 
of exhaustion from lack of water) or obviously wounded, 
or if they can pick off a straggler. A show of force or flashy 
magic is suitable to get them to flee. 




There is a 30% chance this encounter is with 1d4 + 1 giant 
vultures instead. These monstrous carrion birds also cau- 
tiously stalk their prey but are willing to keep up the hunt 
for several days. They are also more likely to attack, espe- 
cially if any characters are wounded, and fight to the death. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNHATED e THE LOST City 




DESIGNING APPROPRIATELY 
CHALLENGING ENCOUNTERS 




The Lost City is designed for characters of 1st through 6th 
level. Although the Upper Pyramid (Tiers 1-5) is fully de- 
veloped with (mostly) balanced encounters, the DM must 
exercise caution when utilizing encounters for the party 
from the Lower Pyramid. These encounters vary in chal- 
lenge rating, and possibly need to be modified based on 
the number of characters and their level of experience. 
There are four categories of encounter difficulty: Easy, Me- 
dium, Hard, and Deadly. The XP value of all the monsters 
or NPCs is used to calculate the difficulty of the encounter. 
Most encounters should be Easy or Medium, with Hard 
and Deadly encounters reserved for set pieces, sub-bosses, 
or even boss battles. A typical, balanced, well-equipped 
party of adventurers with average luck can handle six to 
eight Medium or Hard encounters before requiring a long 
rest in a typical dungeon setting, such as the pyramid de- 




tailed in The Lost City. 




TABLE 1: EXPERIENCE BUDGETS 




Character Level Easy 
Ist 100 
2nd 200 
4 Characters sai a 
4th 500 
5th 1,000 
6th 1,200 
Ist 125 
2nd 250 
3rd 372 
5 Characters ea, 625 
5th 1,250 
6th 1,500 
Ist 150 
2nd 300 
6 Characters a le 
4th 750 
5th 1,500 
6th 1,800 




If the characters get in over their heads with a particular 
encounter, encourage them to flee. Or perhaps have a wan- 
dering monster arrive, attracted to the commotion of the 
battle to help even the odds. Finally, consider having one of 
the various factions come to the aid of the party. This tactic 
should be used sparingly and will likely require the charac- 
ters owing the faction some type of debt or at least a favor. 
The DM should be prepared to turn this into a full-blown 




social interaction encounter used to drive the campaign. 




Table 1 summarizes the experience budgets for a typical 
party of characters (four to six in number) from 1st level 
through Gth level. The experience budgets are categorized 
by encounter difficulty (Easy, Medium, Hard, and Deadly). 




To use Table 1, first determine the number of characters 
in the party, including any NPCs (on the left-hand side of 
the table). Next determine their average level; the table has 
XP budgets for levels 1 through 6, although the DM can 
expand the table to include higher levels (or more charac- 
ters) as needed. Then cross-reference the XP budgets for 
the different encounter difficulties. 




Equivalent Experience 




Medium Hard Deadly 
200 300 400 
400 600 800 
600 900 1,600 


1,000 1,500 2,000 
2,000 3,000 4,400 
2,400 3,600 5,600 
250 Ses 500 
500 750 1,000 
750 1,125 2,000 
1,250 1,875 2,500 
2,500 3,750 5,500 
3,000 4,500 7,000 
300 450 600 
600 900 1,200 
900 1,350 2,400 
1,500 2,250 3,000 
3,000 4,500 6,600 
3,600 5,400 8,400 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




For example, if the party includes a 4th-level wizard, a 
Sth-level rogue, a 3rd-level fighter, a 4th-level cleric, and 
a 4th-level ranger, there would be five characters averaging 
4th level. An Easy encounter for this group would be 625 
equivalent XP, while a Deadly encounter would be 2,500 




equivalent XP. 
TABLE 2: MULTIPLIERS 
# of Monsters Encountered XP Multiplier 
1 al 
2 x 1.5 
3-6 x 2 
7-10 ee 
11-14 a 
15+ x4 




To determine how difficult an encounter is, add up the 
XP of all the combatants and then adjust the amount by 
using the multiplier in Table 2, based on the total number 
of combatants. Monster XP values are based on challenge 
rating (CR) values and are included in the Monster Man- 
ual, the wandering monster tables, or stat blocks provided 
in the appendices. For example, a giant scorpion (CR 3, 
700 XP) would be an Easy encounter for our described 
party. But three wererats (CR 2, 450 XP each) would be a 
Deadly encounter for our five 4th-level characters (3 x 450 
= 1,350 x 2 = 2,700 equivalent XP). Note that this calcula- 
tion is the equivalent XP for the encounter. The characters 
are only awarded the actual experience points (in this case, 




1,350 XP) for defeating this group of monsters. 




The DM has the option to award bonus experience points 
for overcoming traps and tricks, or for particularly savvy 
roleplaying with key NPCs. This likely will come into play 
if the characters seek one or more alliances with any of 
the factions in 7he Lost City. Using bonus experience point 
awards is perfect for increasing the characters’ power in or- 
der to face the deadlier challenges of the Lower Pyramid, 
or the Lost City. Table 3 summarizes the recommended 
XP award ranges based on character level. 




TABLE 3: XP AWARDS 


Character Level XP Award 
Ist-3rd 25 to 50 
4th-6th 50 to 100 
7th-10th 100 to 250 




a 




ADVENTURE HOOKS 




It’s up to the DM to decide how to get the characters to 
the Lost City and start the adventure. Below are a few 
suggested adventure hooks, but most require additional 
details provided by the DM. The recommended player’s 
beginning is the last one presented, followed by read-aloud 
text to set the opening scene. 




¢ The characters come into possession of a map showing 
the location of an ancient city buried in the sands of the 
desert. Surely untold riches await those with the courage 
to plunder the ruined city. They mount an expedition or 
are hired by a wealthy patron to find the Lost City and 
investigate it. 




° Desert raiders stage a daring attack on a small settlement 
or encampment that the characters are visiting. Several 
innocent victims are kidnapped and carried away. The 
characters are hired by a wealthy patron to track down 
the raiders and return the victims. Perhaps one of them is 
important to the characters, such asa relative or a mentor. 
The desert raiders are bringing the victims to the ruins of 
the Lost City, to be turned over to the Zargonites. Unless 
the characters can intervene, the victims are destined for 
the slime pit of Zargon and its insatiable hunger. 




The characters are hired to escort a caravan to cross the 
sandy wastes of a desert. During the trek, a massive sand- 
storm strikes, separating the characters from the rest of 
the caravan. After days of wandering, and dwindling 
food and water, the characters discover the upper ruins of 
an ancient city, including a step pyramid. In a desperate 
search for water and supplies, the characters investigate 




the pyramid. 




SUGGESTED PLAYERS’ BACK- 
GROUND 




Days ago, your group of adventurers joined a desert caravan. 
Halfway across the desert, a terrible sandstorm struck, separat- 
ing your party from the rest of the caravan. When the storm 
died down, you found you were alone. The caravan was no- 
where in sight. The desert was unrecognizable, as the dunes 
had been blown into new patterns. You were lost. 




You headed east, the same way the caravan was headed before the 
storm. Several days passed. Your mounts died and you soon drank 
the last of your water. The end of the desert was not in sight. 




The second day after your water ran out, you stumbled upon a 
number of stone blocks sticking out of a sand dune. Investiga- 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




tion revealed that the sand covered the remains of a tall stone 
wall. On the other side of the stone wall was a ruined city. 




The stone blocks of the city had toppled and cracked with the 
passing of time. Sand had covered most of the buildings. The 
stones that remained uncovered had been scoured smooth by 




the blowing sands. 




In the center of the city towered a step pyramid. It had five 
step-like tiers, each 20 feet high. The bottommost tier was al- 
most completely covered with sand. On top of the highest tier 
were three 30-foot-tall statues. 




The statue on the left was of a strong, bearded man holding a 
balance* in one hand and a lightning bolt in the other. The 
middle statue was of a winged child with two snakes twined 
about its body. The child held a wand in one hand and a 
handful of coins in the other. The statue on the right was of a 
beautiful woman, holding in her hands a sheaf of wheat and 




a longsword. 




On the south side of the pyramid, a ramp with stairs led from 
the ground to the wp of the highest tier. A quick search of the 
ruins revealed no source of food or water, so you decided to 
climb the pyramid. In the side of the ramp, level with the floor 
of the top tier, you found a secret door... 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GLOSSARY 




Abyss. An abyss is a deep crack or bottomless pit in the 
earth. 




Accoutrements. Accoutrements are additional items of 
dress or equipment, or other items carried or worn by a 
person or used for a particular activity. 




Balance. A balance is an instrument used for weighing. 
It has two small pans hanging from either end of a bal- 
ancing crossbar. When equal weights are placed in both 
pans, the crossbar will be level. 




Brazier. A container for hot coals. 




Carapace. A carapace is a hard, shell-like covering that 
protects the bodies of certain animals (like beetles). 




Catacomb. A catacomb is an underground tunnel, often 
used as a burial place. 




Dais. A dais is a raised platform, on which a throne or 
seat of honor is placed. 




Desecrate. To desecrate is to destroy the ceremonial pu- 
rity of a holy place, making it unfit as a place of worship. 




Divan. A divan is a large, low couch, usually without arm 
rests or back. 




Embalm. To embalm is to preserve (a corpse) from decay, 
originally with spices and now usually by arterial injec- 
tion of a preservative. 




Flowstone. Flowstone is a rock deposited as a thin sheet 
by precipitation from flowing water. 




Haunt. A haunt is a ghost or a strange image. 




Mosaic. A mosaic is a picture made by setting small bits 
of colored stone or glass into mortar. 




Niche. A niche is a small open hollow in a wall, usually 
holding a statue or vase. 




Pallet. A pallet is a straw bed or mattress. 




Pedestal. A pedestal is a short column, usually support- 
ing a vase, statue, or something similar. 




Pyre. A pyre is a pile of wood used to burn bodies. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Sarcophagus. A sarcophagus is a stone coffin, especial- 
ly one found in a large tomb. It usually holds a smaller 
wooden coffin. 




Stalactite. A stalactite is a piece of stone that looks like 
an icicle hanging from the ceiling of a cave. A stalactite is 
formed by dripping water that contains lime. 




Stalagmite. A stalagmite is a piece of stone that looks like 
an upside-down icicle pointing up from the ground in a 
cave. A stalagmite is formed by water that contains lime 




dripping from above. 




Step pyramid. A step pyramid is a pyramid made of sev- 
eral distinct levels, each smaller than the one below it. 




Tier. In this module, it means one “step” of the pyramid. 




Urn. An urn is a vase often used to hold the ashes of the 




dead. 




Vestment. A vestment is a chasuble or other robe worn 




by the clergy or choristers during services. 




CHAPTER FOUR 




The Upper Pyramid 




TIERS I AND 2 
(DUNGEON LEVEL I) 




The first dungeon level consists of Tiers 1 and 2 of the 
step pyramid. The first tier is a single room (area 1). The 
second tier includes areas 2-12. 




DM Note: If using the suggested background, recall 
that the characters are out of food and water. They must 
have these supplies soon or they will die. To encourage 
roleplaying and add a sense of urgency, as the characters 
explore the pyramid keep reminding them that they are 
hungry, thirsty, and tired. 




Food. A character requires 1 pound of food per day and 
can go without food for a number of days equal to 3 + 
their Constitution modifier (minimum 1). Once this lim- 
it is reached, at the end of each day, the character suffers 
one level of exhaustion, which is summarized on the table 
below. A normal day of eating resets the count of days. 




Water. A character needs | gallon of water per day, or 
2 gallons per day in hot weather. The open desert and 
the Upper Pyramid levels (Tiers 1-5) are considered hot 
weather, while underground locations (Tiers 6-10) and 
the massive cavern under the pyramid are considered 
normal conditions as these underground locations are 
cooler. Without a suitable amount of water, a character 
suffers one level of exhaustion (summarized on the table 
below) at the end of the day. If a character receives half 
the required water, they must succeed on a DC 15 Con- 
stitution saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion 
at the end of the day. If the character already has one or 
more levels of exhaustion, they take two levels instead. 
Drinking the required amount of water removes one level 
of exhaustion, but only a long rest and the required water 
can remove all levels of exhaustion. 




This table summarizes the various levels of exhaustion 
and their game related effects. Please note that all game 
effects are cumulative. That is, if a character has two levels 
of exhaustion, they have disadvantage on ability checks 
and their speed is halved. 




EXHAUSTION SUMMARY 


Level Effect 
Disadvantage on ability checks 


2 Speed is halved 
Disadvantage on attack rolls and saving 
throws 




Hit point maximum is halved 
5 Speed is reduced to 0 
6 Death 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The pyramid is made of large, smooth 
stone blocks. The rooms are made of bare stone slabs, 
except where noted otherwise. It’s not uncommon for in- 
terior locations to be covered with a few inches of sand. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 
feet high, while room ceilings are 15 feet high. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and push 
inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can be 
burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the pyramid is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 30 minutes of exploration. At the Dun- 
geon Master’s discretion, wandering monster checks can 
be called for if the characters make a prolonged amount 
of loud noise, such as combat. Roll 1d8 for the type of 
monster encountered or choose one from the table be- 
low. The DM should also adjust the number of creatures 
encountered based on the size of the party, their average 
level, and their general health. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 1 




D8 Encounter # App XP 
Giant centipedes o 50 


2 Giant cave locusts 5 50 


3-5 Cynidiceans Varies 


6 Giant ferrets 4 29 
Deep gnomes 6 


8 Goblins i 50 


CYNIDICEANS 




The Cynidiceans (see appendix C) are degenerate humans 
that live underground in the Lost City. They have pale, 
pasty skin, with bone-white hair and oversized eyes. Cy- 
nidiceans typically wear masks and brightly colored robes 
and often are acting out strange dreams when encoun- 
tered (see the “DM’s Background” section in chapter 3 
for more information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, 
usable for all dungeon levels, are presented in appendix 
C. The DM may randomly determine one of these en- 
counters or use them as a guide to design her own. 




DEEP GNOMES 




These deep gnomes (svirfneblin) have traveled under- 
ground to the Lost City through the tunnels and canals 
that empty into the underground lake (see chapter 6 for 
more details). The deep gnomes are no allies of the Cyn- 
idiceans, but start any encounter with the characters as 
indifferent. If the characters can speak Gnomish, Terran, 
or Undercommon, they could avoid a fight with some fast 
talking—but first they need to offer something in trade, 
such as gems or information. This party is scouting the 
pyramid (they came via the giant ant warrens; see chapter 
G6) and are investigating the whereabouts of recently cap- 
tured deep gnomes (long since devoured by Zargon). 




GIANT CAVE LOCUSTS 




Giant cave locusts (see appendix B) are 3-foot-long gray- 
white grasshopper-like insects that dwell underground. 
They detect the characters long before they are noticed, 
remaining motionless and utilizing their False Appear- 
ance trait. If disturbed, giant cave locusts panic and leap 
up to 60 feet in a random direction with a 50% chance 
to jump toward a random character. If within 10 feet of 
a character following a leap, a giant cave locust spits its 
poison goo. When frightened (such as when they leap or 
spit their poison), they emit a loud shriek, which has a 




Varies 




100 




Source Notes 
MM, p. 323 
Appendix B 
Appendix C 
Appendix B 
MM, p. 164 




MM, p. 166 




See description 




See description 




20% chance to attract another wandering monster (reroll 
on the table, ignoring any result indicating more giant 
cave locusts). 




GIANT CENTIPEDES 




The characters blunder into a nest of giant centipedes 
concealed under the sand. They attack a random charac- 
ter with surprise. 




GIANT FERRETS 




Packs of giant ferrets (see appendix B) hunt giant rats 
underground. They are highly unpredictable and some- 
times attack (60%) or flee (40%). 




GOBLINS 




Many goblins live in caves across the underground lake 
from the Cynidiceans (see area O in chapter 6) in the 
underground cavern. The goblins serve Zargon, often 
forming raiding parties such as this one to kidnap victims 
to feed the monster. Typically, the goblins do not harm 
the Cynidiceans. After all, if the Cynidiceans died out, 
Zargon would start eating goblins! 




KEY TO TIERI (MAP I) 




AREA 1 - STATUE ROOM 




The slab of stone that hid the secret entrance to the pyramid is 
now held open by the dead body of a hobgoblin. The body has 
a large crossbow bolt sunk deep in its chest. The hobgoblin 




has been dead several weeks. 




There is nothing of interest around the desiccated body, 
and all its equipment has been removed. Beyond the 
stone slab is a 10-foot-wide passage, leading into the pyr- 
amid. The passage floor is covered with sand and dust. 
Several pairs of footprints can be seen leading inward. In 
a niche in the wall opposite the secret door, the party will 




a 
4 




*\ Per NEE ATEN IE TP TSE TR ASI aT SNe BME ITH DA AE A ER SSI TTT we 
72 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE Lost city 
esac muenizavnonetamerstes Tt A RON I SS SS OTS Su oe 54 MSE SLE RT SSE 




ST RT a NS SS 




see a large crossbow (la) pointed at them. The crossbow 
is not loaded. The crossbow trap was triggered by a hid- 
den pressure plate in the floor just inside the secret door. 
The hobgoblin stepped on the plate, springing the trap. 




The corridor turns to the north and ends at a stone door. 




The secret door to the pyramid swings shut behind the 
party unless they jam it open or leave something in 
the threshold. It does not lock and can be forced open 
normally. 




Once the characters open the stone door and enter the 
chamber beyond, continue: 




The highest tier of the pyramid is a single 40-foot-square 
room. The room smells stale and musty. The dust on the floor 
has been disturbed, though no special details can be deter- 
mined. Three huge bronze cylinders reach from the floor to 
the ceiling in the middle of the room. In the center of each 
cylinder, facing you at floor level, is a bronze door. Each door 
has a bronze handle that can be used to pull the door open. 




DM Note on Traps: Normally the characters won’t find 
traps unless they are searching for them, although the 
DM is encouraged to use passive Perception checks if 




TRC = Ry A BD PeCRnemmTaRES 




warranted. The DM should roll the dice whenever char- 
acters are looking for traps to conceal a failed attempt. 
Traps that work automatically can be avoided by taking 
special precautions, as described in the text. More infor- 
mation on traps can be found in the Dungeon Master’ 




Guide (pp. 120-123). 




Trap 1b. The door to the room, as usual, swings shut 
unless held or jammed open. A gas trap is triggered by 
opening the door, although it can be detected with a suc- 
cessful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. In each cor- 
ner of the room are small holes that release gas into the 
room. Each can be plugged using suitable material (cloth, 
wax, or even an iron spike) with a successful DC 16 Dex- 
terity check. The gas is odorless, tasteless, and invisible, 
although when it’s filling the room a character can detect 
faint hissing with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. 




The gas takes 1 minute to build up in the closed room 
before doing any damage. During this time the charac- 
ters feel a little dizzy. Each round after, on their turn a 
character takes 1 poison damage. When they start tak- 
ing damage, the characters are aware it’s getting difficult 




TaN 




Rate SN Gury al chau ee ee ee: 
as t aL: PP 




= \ 9 in Floor 
, O Cylinder 
@ -* Corpse 




By ( Door 


4 55, Hole in 
_- ‘~* Ceiling 
> oo Ladder 




4 &® Statue 




* Secret 
Door 




Trapdoor 


qf in Floor 
7G a © Trapdoor 
, in Ceiling 




a ae 




* a 




\" 
> 




o 
~ 
3 
a 




BEREEEEEE sere: 
= 8K 
| | | BR 21 | 




| 20, | 
EES 
|_| 20a) 




f 




lh f 




AANA et 




Na 
Nig 
ace os 




&) Statue 




Trapdoor 
© in Ceiling 
t Trap 




Zy Altar 




& Rubble 9 
aN 




: Curtain 




\ ee 




a 




™ 
IRRERED ENED BSS 




§ Secret Door 




yo) aul 
Hh is 




Ve uli 




Hh 




L ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




to breathe. If reduced to 0 hit points, a character falls 
unconscious, but still takes damage on their turn each 
round. If both the room’s door and the secret door are 
jammed open, the gas dissipates without harming the 
party. 


The bronze cylinders are actually the hollow bases of the 
statues of the Cynidicean gods on top of the pyramid. 
The cylinders sound hollow if tapped. The doors into the 




cylinders are also trapped as described below (traps Ic, 




1d, and le). 




Trap 1c. This trap is located in the west wall next to the 
base of the left statue (Gorm) and can be detected with 
a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. If dis- 
covered, the firing mechanism can be jammed with an 
object, requiring a successful DC 13 Dexterity check. If 
not disarmed, four darts fire out of the wall when the 
door’s handle is pulled. The darts can only hit someone 
standing directly in front of the door. Each dart makes a 
ranged attack against a random target in front of the door 




(+5 to hit, range 5 ft., 2 [1d4] piercing damage). 




Trap 1d. This trap was located in the base of center statue 
(Usamigaras), but now it’s harmless. If the base of the 
cylinder is searched with a successful DC 11 Wisdom 
(Perception) check, dried blood is found. The trap was 
already triggered (but see “Development,” below). 




Trap le. This trap is a special hinged paving stone in 
front of the base of the right statue (Madarua). It can be 
located with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The hinge can be jammed with a flat metal object 
(such as a dagger blade), requiring a successful DC 16 
Dexterity check. If not disabled, when the door handle is 
pulled, a target standing in front of the door falls to area 6 
below (Tier 2) and suffers 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. 




The bronze cylinders are hollow. A ladder going both up 
and down can be found inside each cylinder. Anyone 
climbing up a ladder finds that it leads to the inside of 
one of the statues on top of the pyramid. Each statue has 
a special speaking tube which allowed its priests to speak 
the god’s will. The character also locates a number of le- 
vers at the top. These levers can be used to move parts of 
the statue (arms, head, eyes, and so on) to augment the 
speaking deception. A character climbing down any lad- 
der enters area 6 (Tier 2). 




Development. If the DM wishes, the trap on the mid- 
dle cylinder could be reset, increasing the challenge of 
this encounter. Perhaps it’s reset if the characters return 




to this chamber at a later time. In this case, two spears 
are launched when the door is opened. Each spear tar- 
gets a random character standing directly in front of the 
door with a ranged attack (+6 to hit, range 10 ft., 3 [1d6] 




piercing damage). 
KEY TO TIER 2 (MAP 2) 




AREA 2 — STORAGE ROOM 




This room contains rotting bales of what might be cloth, and 
dusty crates. The room smells like it has been sealed for a long 
time. 




The room is an old storage room that has long been aban- 
doned. The crates once contained food, and the bales 
once held clothing, but now both are rotted and worth- 
less. Otherwise, the room is empty. 




AREA 3 —- SECRET ROOM 




DM Note: This chamber is hidden by a pair of secret 
doors. It requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check to locate one of these doors from either cor- 
ridor. From inside the chamber, these doors are easily 
located. 




Inside this room you see seven black bird-like creatures with 
long tube-like beaks. A faint glitter catches your eye from the 
center of the room as the bird-like creatures fly toward you. 




The approaching seven bird-like creatures are stirges. 




Disturbed by the door opening, the flock swarms to at- 
tack and fights to the death. 




The room also has a small hole high in the north wall that 
can be located with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. Only a Tiny creature can squeeze through 
the hole. The stirges utilize the hole when they go out 
hunting at night. 




The glitter comes from four gems lying in a pile of dust. 
‘The gems include two pieces of amber (100 gp each), a 
blue spinel (500 gp), and a yellow-green sapphire (1,000 




gp). 




AREA 4 — PRIEST’S QUARTERS 




The room is sparsely furnished with rotting furniture. This 
includes a bed, a desk, a chest, and a writing table with a 
wooden chair. All the furniture is covered with a thick layer 
of dust. On the floor lies the body of a dead hobgoblin. The 
body looks several weeks dead. Its left arm is swollen and 
discolored. 




(ezuaersnt rep se agouti tan Bete SPRY NPR FO RL ORS Tf TS SE SU TA REE ESS MS NE SIO AMEE NATE BASIS HARTA SETA PM Shel 




16 EE RS ae. 
ORICILAY, ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE Lost « cy 




This room was once the quarters of a high priest of the 
Brotherhood of Gorm. On the desk is a wooden holy 
symbol shaped like a lightning bolt (5 sp). 




The hobgoblin was killed by a killer bee sting from area 
7. A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
reveals the cause of death was poison, and the actual 
stinger. His body has a full water bottle (holding 1 gal- 
lon) and a purse with 135 sp and 40 gp. 




Otherwise the room is empty. 




AREA 5 — FIREWORKS STOREROOM 




This room seems drier than the rest of the pyramid. In the 
center of the room are a half-dozen small crates. Seated on 
the crates are nearly a dozen 1-foot-tall elven-like human- 
oids with gossamer wings. They are talking in a strange mu- 
sical language and laughing merrily. 




These diminutive winged fey are 10 sprites. They begin 
the encounter friendly and chatter merrily (in Sylvan) if 
approached in a friendly manner. They prefer to speak in 
Sylvan, although they understand and can converse in 
Common and Elvish. Being tricksters, they likely feign 
understanding only Sylvan for a time. They are interested 
in everything, but nothing holds their attention long. 




If attacked, five sprites can act together and use an ac- 
tion to bestow a special kind of curse. The curse takes the 
form of a magical practical joke, such as suddenly turn- 
ing a fighter’s armor or shield into a pile of rust, gluing a 
character’s boots to the floor (escape DC 
12), or warping a wizard’s staff. None of 
these effects should cause any damage; 
they should focus on embarrassing the 
characters. A group of five sprites can 
bestow one curse per day. The sprites 
curse one or two characters, then flee via 
flight through a 1-foot-high door con- 
cealed high in the northeast wall. It takes 
2 rounds for all to escape, so the others 
fly out of reach and use their shortbows 
to provide cover. If pursued, they try to 
lead the characters into the green slime 
in area 8, because that would be fun. If 
the characters disagree or catch them, 
they turn invisible and flee the pyramid. 




The six crates contain fireworks packed 
in sawdust. There is only a 1 in 6 chance 
that a crate of fireworks is still usable af- 




che ame ese EMMA 




FSU an Peo a 




Aa mS 




ina ei wedges Pascoe alse eeareeesn: Sr NOTES RRL 
76 x ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REI incarnateD e THE Lost city 
fo 




ter all this time. Any usable crate of fireworks is worth 
100 gp. The ancient priests of Cynidicea used the fire- 
works to help fake “miracles.” If the players decide to 
keep the fireworks, a usable crate contains 1d6 charges 
of flash powder, 2d4 roman candles, 1d4 skyrockets, 
and 3d4 strings of small firecrackers. These firecrackers 
make a lot of smoke, bright lights, and noise (possibly 
calling for a wandering monster check). The firecrackers 
do not cause any damage or blindness but could fright- 
en beasts. 




Development. The sprites will not join the party, but the 
DM may use them to hint about what lies ahead on this 
tier of the pyramid. 




AREA 5A — POTTERY JARS 




Each of these three pottery jars is 4 feet tall. The first 
jar contains sand. The others, which once held water, are 
now dry and empty. The contents of the jars were to be 
used if a fire broke out in the fireworks storeroom. 




AREA 6 — SPECIAL STOREROOM 


A trio of 2-foot-long black beetles with glowing abdomens pro- 
vide flickering illumination in this 40-foot-by-40-foot cham- 
ber. Three ladders extend from the floor to the ceiling above. 




The three beetles are giant fire beetles. Each beetle has 
two glands that glow and give off bright light in a 10-foot 
radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. The beetles 
are hungry and attack if disturbed. 




ATES SE MIO 




Gane 




This room holds spare parts for the machinery inside the 
statues, such as pulleys, gears, and levers. There are also 
several large covered clay pots. These pots once held oil 
to lubricate the machinery. The oil has almost evaporated 
over the centuries, even though the pots were sealed with 
wax. The characters can recover 6 flasks of oil, although 
they burn poorly and make thick clouds of smoke if lit. 
Collecting all 6 flasks of the oil takes about 20 minutes. 
There is also a small foundry here for fixing broken statue 
parts. It has a forge, an anvil, tongs, and hammers. 




Developments. If a character falls into this chamber 
from the trap in area 1, they land prone at the base of the 
right cylinder. The giant fire beetles move to attack, get- 
ting advantage on their initiative roll. 




The glowing giant fire beetle glands continue to glow for 
1d6 days after they are removed with a successful DC 12 
Intelligence (Nature) check. 




AREA 7 — TREASURE ROOM 




In the center of the room you see a 10-foot-tall cage. In the 
bottom of the cage is a pile of coins and gems. Hanging from 
the top of the cage is a giant beehive. Several large, 1-foot- 
long bees are buzzing around the room. ‘The mesh of the cage 
is wide enough for them to fly through. There is also a 1-foot- 
square hole high in the south wall. 




The cage’s lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a 
successful DC 13 Dexterity check. It holds the treasure 
of the Brotherhood of Gorm (see areas 11 and 12). The 
treasure is guarded by five killer bees (see appendix B) 
flying around the room. The killer bees have learned that 
persons wearing a mask of Gorm (gold, depicting an old 
man) are friendly. Thus, the killer bees will not attack 
anyone wearing the mask of Gorm, unless attacked first. 
The killer bees automatically attack any other persons 
who enter the chamber. 




The treasure lying on the bottom of the cage is 2,000 sp, 
500 gp, two red garnets (100 gp each), and a gold chalice 
set with tiny emeralds (700 gp). 




Developments. The killer bees inside the hive do not at- 
tack unless the hive itself is disturbed. Inside the hive are 
four more killer bees and a killer bee queen (see appen- 
dix B for both). A special kind of honey is found inside 
the beehive. If eaten, the honey acts as a one half-strength 
potion of healing, curing 1d4 + 1 hit points. All the hon- 
ey in the hive must be consumed by one character to get 
the curative benefits, and this also counts as enough food 
for a Medium-sized creature for one day. 




ET LRT MENTE AD 




RLS REAR ne 




ARS I 




AREA 8 - ABANDONED ROOM 




The entire floor of this 20-foot-by-20-foot room is covered with 
green, oozing slime. Otherwise the room appears to be empty. 




The green oozing slime is indeed green slime (see “Dun- 
geon Hazards” on p. 105 of the Dungeon Masters Guide). 
It dissolves flesh, organic material, and metal. A creature 
that comes into contact with green slime takes 5 (1d10) 
acid damage at the start of each of its turns, until it is 
scraped off or destroyed. Against wood or metal, green 
slime causes 11 (2d10) acid damage each round, and de- 
stroys any nonmagical wood or metal object used as a 
tool to scrape it off. Sunlight, any effects that cure dis- 
ease, or any source of cold, fire, or radiant damage can 
destroy a patch of green slime. There are four 10-foot 
patches in the chamber. 




AREA 9 —- ABANDONED PRIEST’S QUAR- 
TERS 




The room contains an old bed, writing table, chair, and 
chest. From the looks of the furniture, these quarters have 
been long abandoned. From behind the bed come scuffling 
sounds and suddenly you see the head of a large, pale blue 




lizard with orange spots. 




The lizard is a giant gecko lizard (use the statistics for a 
giant lizard, with sticky footpads granting it the Spider 
Climb trait). It is consuming the body of an unfortunate 
Cynidicean. Unless the characters make a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check, they are surprised by a 
second giant gecko lizard that drops down from the ceil- 
ing. 


The furniture is mundane and worthless. The mask worn 
by the Cynidicean depicts some kind of bird-like crea- 
ture. It is inlaid with gold and is worth 80 gp. 




AREA 10- ABANDONED PRIEST’S QUAR- 
TERS 




This room might once have been the quarters of a cleric, 
but it looks like it has been abandoned for a long time. It 
contains musty, dust-covered furniture: a sleeping pallet*, a 
writing desk with a wooden stool, and a chest. 




The room holds very little of value, aside from the stand- 
ard furnishings. The chest is unlocked and contains a 
wooden holy symbol that looks like a balance (5 sp). 
Etched into the south wall with a sharp object is the fol- 
lowing passage written in Common: “Barnabas Bladecut- 
ter was here.” 




FS TN RAT 




nein MN 
Cannatep + tHE Lost city 77 >< 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AREA 11 - BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 




The room contains three double bunk beds. Five men are 
seated on the lower bunks deep in conversation. Each man 
wears iron chain mail over a blue tunic. All wear steel hel- 
mets, and each man’ face is covered by a golden mask. All 
their masks are the same, depicting a long-haired, bearded 
man with a stern gaze. 




The five humans are Cynidiceans that belong to the 
Brotherhood of Gorm (see appendix C). The Brother- 
hood of Gorm controls areas 11, 12, and 24 of the Up- 
per Pyramid. Seeing other non-humanoids, the Brother- 
hood begin this encounter indifferent. If the characters 
are aggressive and threatening, it takes little to provoke 
the Brothers into a battle (see “Developments,” below). 
Otherwisé, the Brothers are willing to parley. During this 
social interaction encounter, if the characters sway the 
Brotherhood to friendly, one or more characters may be 
asked to join the Brotherhood (see the sidebar near area 
12 for details). If the Brotherhood remain indifferent, no 
such offer is made, although the Brotherhood does not 
become hostile and might be willing to trade supplies or 
information. If the Brotherhood becomes hostile, they 
attack, as described below in “Developments.” It is rec- 
ommended that this encounter be roleplayed, although 
several ability checks (such as Persuasion or Insight, al- 
though Deception and Intimidation could also be a tac- 
tic) could be used. 




This room contains the Brothers’ equipment, including 
food and water for five Medium-sized creatures for one 
week. The only treasure is the Brothers’ masks, which are 
worth 100 gp each. 




Developments. If fighting breaks out in this room, the 
Brotherhood of Gorm in area 12 hear the fighting and 
rush to help their fellows, with three arriving through the 
adjoining door after 1 round. The remining two Brothers 
and their leader exit their chamber, circle around, and at- 
tack from the entry door, behind the characters. 




AREA 11A —- STATUE OF GORM 




At the end of the corridor you see a glittering statue. The 
statue appears to be a smaller version of the bearded man 
wielding a lightning bolt you saw on top of the pyramid. 




The statue fppears at first to be made of gold, but a suc- 
cessful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals it 
is a wooden statue covered with golden paint. The statue 
is worthless. The statue is about 6 feet high and is firmly 




set into a heavy stone base. It can be removed with a suc- 




cessful DC 22 Strength check. 




AREA 12 — GRAND MASTER OF THE 
BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 
The room has three double bunk beds along the walls. Six 




men loiter around the room engaged in conversation. All 
wear chain mail armor over blue tunics. Each man also 
wears a steel helmet and a golden mask. ‘The masks look like 
a long-haired, bearded man with a stern gaze. 




Five of the humans are members of the Brotherhood of 
Gorm (see appendix C). The tallest, oldest man is Ka- 
nadius, Grand Master of the Brotherhood of Gorm 
(see appendix C). He wears a fancier helmet, which is 
actually magical. Kanadius is stern-looking but basical- 
ly kindly, once he warms up to you. He prefers to out- 
think opponents but is brave if fighting is necessary. He is 
somewhat absent-minded with unimportant details, but 
not with major ones. He leads his men rather than orders 
them, and under his leadership, their morale is high. The 




Brothers will not flee as long as their leader still stands. 




This area contains the equipment of the Brothers, includ- 
ing food and water for six Medium humanoids for one 
week. The Brothers’ masks are worth 100 gp each and 
Kanadius’ fancy helmet is a helm of telepathy, 




Developments. If the party gets into combat in this 
room, and the other Brotherhood members are in area 
11, they respond in 1 round to aid their fellow Brothers. 




There is a secret trapdoor under one of the beds in the 
southeast corner of the room. It requires a successful DC 
20 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. If the charac- 
ters defeat all the other Brothers, Kanadius may try to 
escape through this door. It leads down into the secret 
chamber next to area 24 on Tier 3. If Kanadius escapes, 
the DM may create a special encounter for later in the 
adventure. The encounter would be with Kanadius and 
a dozen Brothers of Gorm who try to revenge their fel- 
lows. The special encounter could replace a wandering 
monster encounter, or it could happen at some place the 
DM chooses. 




SLSR gate a SN RM HAN ART 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 
ee 7 ET ENC : eee SS ee TE et 2g AN NE I A ITE 




@——___. —_— -~ 
JOINING THE BROTHERHOOD 
OF GORM 




Depending on the course of this encounter, the men 
may ask some of the characters to join the Brother- 
hood. Only male martial types (fighters, rangers, pala- 
dins, or even monks) of lawful alignment may become 
full members. Full members also must be human, 
dwarven, halfling, or elven. Any other character may 
become a lesser member. Before any characters actual- 
ly join, Kanadius, the Grand Master of the Brotherhood, 
secretly tests their sincerity with his helm of telepathy. As 
DM, ask the player what their character's motivation is 
for aiding the Brotherhood, and their sincerity. Mean- 
while, Kanadius uses the detect thoughts ability of the 
helm to discern the true motivations and sincerity of 
the character. Should the character willingly try to de- 
ceive him, Kanadius gives a secret signal to the Brother- 
hood, and they all attack the following round. 




The Brotherhood is not quick to take action against 
the Zargonites, or the other factions, stemming from 
a debacle with the last outsiders that allied with this 
faction. Kanadius is thoughtful and cautious, requir- 
ing new members of the faction to prove their worth 
before granting full trust. This could be accomplished 
via running errands or undertaking side quests, and 
eventually earning the respect to attempt the “Gaunt- 
let,” a trap-filled labyrinth below the Brotherhood's 
stronghold in the Lost City. 




Any accepted members are taken to area 24 on Tier 3 
for a simple initiation ceremony run by Kanadius. Reg- 
ular members are given tunics, golden masks (100 gp), 
and any normal armor or weapons they might need 
during this ceremony. Other characters, if accepted 
as lesser members, are given a necklace with a small 
golden mask of Gorm (20 gp) attached. 




The Brotherhood has another stronghold deep in the 
underground city (seearea L in chapter 6). Extra masks 
and necklaces are stored there. It takes about half a 
day fora messenger to go to the stronghold and return 
with extra masks and necklaces. While the party waits, 
the Brotherhood of Gorm aids the characters against 
wandering monsters. The DM may also treat the 
Brotherhood's rooms as “safe” (i.e., wandering mon- 
ster checks are not required). Here, the partycantakea 
long rest without fear of interruption. 




e—_____________e 




=e RR ETO SATE RT ETI A LE TTL 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




TIERS 3 AND 4 
(DUNGEON LEVEL 2) 




The second level of the dungeon consists of Tiers 3 and 4 
of the pyramid. Tier 3 includes areas 13-24. The third tier 
contains the headquarters for the Brotherhood of Gorm, 
the Magi of Usamigaras, and the Warrior Maidens of 
Madarua. These can become “safe” areas for characters 
who join these factions. 




Tier 4 includes areas 25-40. It holds the burial chambers 
of King Alexander, Queen Zenobia, and many important 
court officials from their time. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The pyramid is made of large, smooth 
stone blocks. The rooms are made of bare stone slabs, 
except where noted otherwise. It’s not uncommon for in- 
terior locations to be covered with a few inches of sand. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 
feet high, while room ceilings are 15 feet high. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and push 
inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can be 
burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the pyramid is unlit. 




Revolving Passage. The central area is the most unusual 
feature of the third tier. It houses a passage on a turntable. 
A machine-like system of weights and counterweights 
makes the passage turn. 




On the wall inside each end of the revolving passage is a 
row of eight buttons. They match the buttons in the halls. 
When one of these inside buttons is pressed, that end of the 
passage swings clockwise to line up with the proper hall. 




A door to the central area only opens if the revolving 
passage is lined up with it. Next to each door to the re- 
volving passageway is a button with a symbol on it. These 
symbols are summarized below and on Handout #4 in 
appendix D. When the button is pressed, the passage 
swings clockwise to line up with the door, making faint 
grinding noises. If the passage is already lined up with the 
door, nothing happens. 




f 
J 




PERE INCE LTS SLRS 




WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 2 




D8 




Coo CO SY UR Re tO oe 




ff 




% Y iii iitniaea 




oricinaL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED ° _THE Lost city 




= LSS A aL TE 




YX f 80 4 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encountered on a roll 
of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering monsters once every 30 minutes 
of exploration. At the DM’s discretion, wandering monster checks 
can be called for if the characters make a prolonged amount of loud 
noise, such as combat. Roll 1d8 for the type of monster encountered 
or choose one from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the party, their 
average level, and their general health. 




BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 




This encounter is with a party of the Brotherhood of Gorm (see ap- 
pendix C) traveling to their shrine in room 24. They are either com- 
ing from areas 11 or 12 on Tier 2 or are en route from the Lost City. 
For more details about the Brothers, and how they might react to the 
characters, see areas 11 and 12. 




CYNIDICEANS 




The Cynidiceans (see appendix C) are degenerate humans that live 
underground in the Lost City. They have pale, pasty skin, with bone- 
white hair and oversized eyes. Cynidiceans typically wear masks and 
brightly colored robes and often are acting out strange dreams when 
encountered (see the “DM’s Background” section in chapter 3 for 
more information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, usable for all 
dungeon levels, are presented in appendix C. The DM may randomly 
determine one of these encounters or use them as a guide to design 
her own. 




GIANT BATS 




Giant bats inhabit the lower caverns, but occasionally enter the pyra- 
mid seeking a route out. One of the giant bats encountered is a giant 
vampire bat. Treat this individual as a giant bat but replace its bite 
attack with the following: 




Blood Drain: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, and the bat attaches to the target. 
While attached, the bat does not attack. Instead, at the start of each 




Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


Giant bats E 50 MM, p. 323 See description 
Brotherhood of Gorm 8 50 Appendix C 


Cynidiceans Varies Varies Appendix C See description 
Hobgoblins 6 100 MM, p. 186 


Magi of Usamigaras 5 100 Appendix C 


Rock baboons 6 25 Appendix B 


Spitting cobras 3 25 Appendix B 




Warrior Maidens of Madarua 8 




re a ES rr —— 




50 Appendix C 




te RD TE ETT 




SANE a a eS TT 




of the bat’s turns, the target loses 5 (1d6 + 2) hit points 
due to blood loss. 




‘The bat can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its move- 
ment. After draining 10 hit points, it detaches and flies 
away to digest its meal. The target continues to lose blood 
through the wound, losing 2 hit points at the start of 
each of its turns until administered first aid with a suc- 
cessful DC 11 Wisdom (Medicine) check or receiving 
any cure wounds spell. 




HOBGOBLINS 
These hobgoblins are shock troops for the Priests of 




Zargon, tasked with either capturing prisoners or gen- 
eral raiding, especially targeting the other factions. They 
are hostile and attack without cause. If they feel they 
can overpower the characters, they strike with nonlethal 
blows (using the flats of their blades), attempting to cap- 
ture them for transport to the Temple of Zargon below 
(see area K, chapter 6). If the characters seem to be pow- 
erful, they quickly alter tactics to lethal blows. 




MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 
This is a party of Magi of Usamigaras (see appendix C) 




traveling to their shrine in area 14. For more details about 
the Magi, and how they might interact with the charac- 
ters, see area 14. 




ROCK BABOONS 




Rock baboons (see appendix B) are larger, more intelli- 
gent versions of normal baboons. Although omnivorous, 
these savage primates prefer meat, and are out hunt- 
ing. Rock baboons do not make tools but use bones or 
branches as clubs (+2 to hit, 3 [1d6] bludgeoning dam- 
age) in addition to throwing rocks. They are ferocious 
and have vicious tempers. 




SPITTING COBRAS 




A spitting cobra (see appendix B) is a 3-foot-long snake 
that can squirt a stream of venom at a target up to 10 feet 
away. It aims for its target's eyes and has a chance to cause 
blindness. The characters disturbed this nest, creating an 
aggressive response. If the characters cautiously retreat, 
the snakes do not pursue. 




WARRIOR MAIDENS OF MADARUA 
This party of Warrior Maidens of Madarua (see appen- 




dix C) is traveling to their shrine in area 21. For more 
details about the Warrior Maidens, see area 23. 




si Eee IIE SE ES 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




DM Note: The outcome of an encounter with one of the 
three factions often depends on previous encounters. For 
example, characters who have joined the Brotherhood 
of Gorm, and are wearing its masks or necklaces, likely 
find a group of Warrior Maidens to be unfriendly, if not 
openly hostile, to begin an encounter. 




KEY TO TIER3 (MAP 3) 




AREA 13 - AAANDONED CEREMONIAL 
CHAMBER 




This room is a ruined chapel of some kind with tattered tap- 
estries hanging from the walls. A dusty altar along the north 
wall is covered with a rotted cloth. The candlesticks, offering 
bowl, and holy symbol on the altar are carved out of wood. 
The holy symbol looks like an eye. Next to the altar you see 
a 6-foot-long lizard with wide flaps of skin between its legs. 




‘The creature is a giant draco lizard (see appendix B). The 
beast climbs on top of the altar and launches itself toward 
the characters, using its flaps to fly. Consider this a special 
one-time charge attack where the giant draco lizard has 
advantage on its attack roll. It then fights to the death. 




Behind the altar are the remains of a human rogue (per- 
haps a survivor from the caravan the characters belonged 




to, if the DM is using that adventure hook). ‘The body has 




We ; 




nepmgea Tse Teena! 




a full canteen of water (1 gallon) and a sack containing 
400 gp and two brown tourmaline gems (100 gp each). 
The candlesticks, bowl, and holy symbol are made from 
rare teakwood, worth 50 gp, 25 gp, and 25 gp, respectively. 




AREA 14 —- CHAMBER OF THE MAGI 




Along the north and west walls of this room hangs a large tap- 
estry showing the major constellations. You have interrupted 
a religious service. Thirteen figures in rainbow-colored robes 
and silver masks stand in front of a stone, star-shaped altar. 
The masks match the face of the middle statue on the pyra- 
mid, the winged child. The central figure of the group wears 




a silver crown. 




Twelve of the worshippers are the Magi of Usamigaras 
(see appendix C). The one wearing the silver crown is Au- 
riga Sirkinos, Chief Magi of Usamigaras (see appendix 
C). Each Magi has silver lines forming a small star symbol 
on the palm of their left hand. The silver masks are worth 
20 gp each and Auriga’s crown is worth 200 gp. Each Magi 
also has a silvered dagger (worth 100 gp). Although just 
interrupted, the Magi begin the encounter indifferent, 
unless the characters are displaying the accoutrements* of 
one of the other factions. If swayed to friendly, Auriga of- 
fers one or more characters of the appropriate types mem- 
bership in the faction (see sidebar for details). The DM is 
encouraged to roleplay this interaction, although several 
successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) checks can be 
used for a convincing argument. If the characters present 
evidence that they have opposed another faction, they get 
advantage on these rolls. 




Stout Auriga Sirkinos appears to be jolly and fun-loving. 
His mirth actually hides a ruthless personality. He is a 
fanatic who will do anything to promote the cult of Us- 
amigaras and his own power. He tries his best to hide this 
under a pleasant, even joking, manner. Although he might 
welcome the characters to the faction, he views them as 
mere tools and does his best to ensure that he personally 
retains the most power in the faction. However, if it comes 
to a choice between the Magi of Usamigaras or the per- 
sonal power of Auriga Sirkinos, he chooses personal power. 




If combat occurs, the Magi with defensive spells—such as 
blade ward, fog cloud, grease, mage armor, protection from 
good and evil, and shield—cast them, and one Magi casts 
hold portal on the door to prevent escape. Meanwhile, of- 
fensive spells—including charm person, color spray, ray of 
sickness, and sleep—are cast at the characters. These are 
designed to incapacitate the characters, not kill them. 
Should this plan fail, the Magi switch to Ist-level spells 
such as magic missile and thunderwave. Auriga augments 




ses eas 




sonserdraseremipenanrhacimauremenerets 




SEED CSET EP API ERO EIET 




oriinaL ADVENTURES REINMCARN ATED e THE Lost city 




NLP ET SENT I TS NS 




——EEEEEEE———EEEEE= 
MAGI SPELL SELECTION 




Inthe original version of B4: The Lost City, the Magi were 
all 1st-level magic-users, and each could cast a different 
1st-level spell. If the DM feels confident managing an 
encounter with 12 spellcasters, each with a slightly dif- 
ferent list of prepared spells, consider swapping out the 
Magi's detect magic spell (as presented in appendix C) 
with these spells, one for each Magi: 




charm person protection from evil and good 




color spray ray of sickness 
fog cloud shield 
grease sleep 




hold portal (see appendix A) Tenser's floating disk 




mage armor thunderwave 




——ooEoEOoOoOoOEeEo 
this magical barrage with ray of enfeeblement and color 
spray. Should defeat appear inevitable, he casts darkness 
and attempts to flee out the door, placing old portal on it 
to make good his escape back to the Lost City. If the char- 
acters are all disabled, they will be tied up and eventually 
transported to the Magi stronghold in the Lost City (see 
area M, chapter 6). 




Hidden inside the stone altar is a secret compartment that 
can be located with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. It is protected by a poison needle trap, that 
can be detected with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (In- 
vestigation) check. The needle trap can be disarmed with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 18 Dexterity check. 
Anyone who tries to open the compartment without find- 
ing and disabling the trap triggers it. The needle causes 1 
piercing damage, and the target must make a successful 
DC 14 Constitution saving throw or suffer 9 (2d8) poi- 
son damage and become poisoned for 1 hour. Inside the 
compartment is a +/ mace and a driftwood wand of magic 
detection with its command word (“nifd-enacra”) carved 
on its shaft. 




AREA 14A — MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 


This corridor has been painted black with tiny white stars 
to resemble the night sky. The door on the west wall is 
iron and has a star carved into it. 




The western door is unlocked. If the characters open the 
door, a bell begins to ring. Continue with the area 14 de- 
scription. 




SLR 




LESSER LEIA UES LCE SERN STE RENE 




LLL LT a TREN 




Sc 




oo _________e 
JOininG THE MAGI OF 
USAMIGARAS 




If the party doesn't attack, they may learn that the 
Magi of Usamigaras is another cult trying to restore 
the lost glory of Cynidicea. All current members are Cy- 
nidiceans, but the Magi are willing to let outsiders join, 
unless they have already pledged allegiance to anoth- 
er faction. Only wizards, sorcerers, rogues, and clerics 
may become full members. Only humans and elves 
are granted full membership as well. Other classes and 
races may only become lesser members. Full members 
are initiated by placing their left hand on the center of 
the altar, palm down. They then recite the pledge in 
Cynidicean: “I, (character's name), do hereby pledge to 
serve and obey the great Usamigaras.” When he or she 
says the name “Usamigaras,” a five-pointed star is then 
magically burned into the character's left palm. Full 
members are then given silver masks (20 gp), silvered 
daggers (100 gp), and rainbow-colored robes. 




Lesser members are not initiated; instead, they are 
given a silver ring (5 gp) carved with Usamigaras's 
face. The robes, masks, daggers, and rings are kept ina 
stronghold in the underground city. It takes about half 
a day for them to be fetched. While the party waits, the 
Magi aid them against wandering monsters and pro- 
vide ample food and drink. The DM may declare areas 
14 and 14a safe from wandering monsters during this 
time, allowing the characters a place fora long rest. 




Auriga is not too fond of the characters’ arrival or the 
idea of them joining the faction, despite the vocal 
pleas from his underlings. (This group is led by Loraya, 
a young female Magi of Usamigaras [see appendix C] 
of high morals, who clearly feels they need additional 
support in their plight.) He would prefer to trade mag- 
ic items to the characters for any inscribed spells. Al- 
ternatively, he could order the new members on side 
quests to recover lost lore or inscribed spells. If the 
characters succeed and gain renown in the faction, at 
the DM's option, Auriga could be a traitor. After using 
them, he betrays them and aids in their capture by the 
Zargonites. 




ETE LITE RO TT ETE PATE EATS SE 




i A EATS A TIS SU Uo OSE IE tS 




oricinaL ADVENTURES ‘REINICARMATED e “THE Lost City 




SIRES SRE 1 SESS TY SINT STR IE 




AREA 15 — QUARTERS FOR THE MAGI 
OF USAMIGARAS 




This room contains six double bunk beds. At the foot of each 
bunk bed are two wooden chests. The room looks clean and 




well kept. 




The wooden chests are unlocked footlockers. They contain 
spare robes and various personal belongings, but nothing 
of great value. The Magi in area 14 stay here when away 
from their faction’s Lost City stronghold. 




There is a secret door centered along the south wall. It can 
be located with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) 
check, and is opened by pushing on the right-hand side, 




revealing a center pivot. 




AREA 16 — QUARTERS FOR THE CHIEF 
MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 




This is a comfortable-looking bedroom that shows signs of re- 
cent occupation. Chained to the foot of the metal bed is a 
large gray wolf. The wolf growls when the door is opened. 




The wolf was captured as a cub and has been trained to 
act as a watchdog. It is guarding the personal funds of Au- 
riga Sirkinos. The chain is about 10 feet long and its lock 
can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 12 
Dexterity check. Although the wolf is chained to the bed, 
the metal frame is light, and the wolf can move the bed 
with some effort. Its speed is reduced to 15 feet, and it has 
disadvantage on all attack rolls during a turn in which it 
moves. 




Under the bed is a locked chest; it takes thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 17 Dexterity check to unlock, and it 
holds 2,500 sp and 200 gp. 




Auriga has the keys to unlock the wolf’s chain and the 
chest. 




AREA 17 — ABANDONED STOREROOM 
All four walls of this chamber are occupied with shelves. Most 




of these are empty, but some contain old crates. ‘The shelves are 
covered with dust and a vile-looking yellow fungus that grows 
in large, thick clusters. 




The yellow fungus is yellow mold (see “Dungeon Haz- 
ards” on p. 105 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). The mold 
covers shelves along all four walls, the equivalent of 18 
patches of yellow mold. If a patch is disturbed, it releases 
a cloud of spores in a 10-foot cube originating from the 
mold. Any creature in the area must succeed on a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or suffer 11 (2d10) poison 




Jn 




FET AS TRC ETT NT LT TIS PRATT ™, y 4 




rere eee 




XC 83 




OX 




' 




damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. While poi- 
soned, a creature suffers 5 (1d10) poison damage at the start 
of each of its turns. The creature can repeat the saving throw 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the poisoned condi- 
tion on itself with a successful save. Sunlight or any amount 
of fire damage instantly destroys a patch of yellow mold. 




There is a secret door concealed in the center of the south 
wall. The door can be located with a successful DC 20 
Wisdom (Perception) check, but this certainly disturbs 
the two yellow mold patches on these shelves. The stone 
door is difficult to open, requiring a DC 12 Strength 
check and swings inward to area 17a. 




AREA 17A — WATER TRAP 




When a Medium-sized character crosses the room, the 
DM rolls 1d6. On a roll of 1 or 2, the character steps on 
a hidden pressure plate, triggering this trap. Both doors 
slam shut, and water pours into the 10-foot-by-20-foot 
chamber from concealed vents high up in the walls. Both 
doors are now considered barred and need to be forced 
open. Two feet of water fill the chamber per round, so 
after 3 rounds characters need to start to hold their breath. 
A Strength check to force a door while underwater is 
made with disadvantage, but a second character can use 
the Help action to assist. 




The ceiling is 20 feet high here, so it takes 10 rounds 
for the chamber to fill with water. Five minutes after the 
room fills with water, concealed drains in the floor open. 
The water drains out, and the trap automatically resets. 




Developments. If a character opens the door to area 18 
while the water is still pouring in, the water rushes into 
area 18, sweeping characters in unless they make a suc- 
cessful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw to grab onto the 
door threshold. The water overturns the basket in area 18 
and releases the pit vipers inside it. The agitated snakes 
attack. The water then disappears down concealed drains 
along the east wall. 




AREA 18 — SECRET ROOM 




This area looks empty except for a large wicker basket in the 
middle of the room. 




Coiled atop the pile of treasure in the basket are two 
5-foot-long pit vipers (use the statistics for poisonous 
snakes). Due to their innate quickness, pit vipers have 
advantage on their initiative rolls. If disturbed, they at- 
tack and are quite adept at swimming, should the room 
become flooded from the trap in area 17a. They fight until 
defeated. 




a ARLE T ey! S 




oricinaL _ ADVENTURES REINCARMATED | e AE Lost city 




Se PRT LILLE ELL LTE LTE 




The wicker basket contains 3,000 sp and with five gems 
mixed in. These are a jagged piece of obsidian (10 gp), a 
bloodstone with reddish-orange flecks (50 gp), two creamy 
white pearls (100 gp each), and a peridot (500 gp). 




AREA 19 — STOREROOM 




This 30-foot-square room is filled with crates and casks. Four 
large brown beetles, each about 3 feet long, are busy boring 
into the soft wood with their wicked mandibles. 




The four beetles are giant oil beetles (see appendix B). 
When the encounter begins, the beetles are preoccupied 
with the crates. If the characters cautiously close the door, 
they can avoid an encounter with these vermin. Other- 
wise, the giant oil beetles gladly shift their attention to a 
“fresher” food source. Each beetle has a 75% chance of 
squirting oil on its first turn in combat; it then switches to 
bite attacks while its oil recharges. 




The crates are filled with dried food and the casks are filled 
with wine. There are six casks, each holding 10 gallons 
of poor-quality wine (2 gp each). The food was recently 
stored here by the Magi of Usamigaras and is edible. There 
is enough food to feed 12 Medium-sized creatures for two 
weeks. As long as the crates and casks have not been bro- 
ken open by the beetles (a task that takes several more min- 
utes), the food and wine is suitable for consumption, even 
if the crate or barrel has been sprayed with the beetle oil. 




AREA 19A —- SHIFTING WALL 




At the end of this short corridor is an 8-foot-tall bronze statue 
of a winged child with two snakes entwined around its body. 
It holds a wand in one hand and a handful of coins in the 
other. ‘The statue looks firmly connected to the wall. 




This statue of Usamigaras is hollow and hides a shifting 
wall. If the wand is pulled left, the wall shifts westward 
to the end of the hall. It blocks the last 10-foot section of 
the hall, and thus the door to area 15. However, it pro- 
vides access to the door to area 14. The wall stays there for 
30 minutes before moving back to its original position. It 
takes a full minute for the wall to move into position and 
then back to its original location. 




If the wand is pulled to the right, the statue breathes out 
a cloud of choking gas that fills the 30-foot length of the 
corridor. A creature in the poison gas cloud takes 1 poison 
damage at the start of its turn and must make a successful 
DC 13 Constitution saving throw or gain the poisoned 
condition for 1 hour. The gas dissipates after 20 minutes. 
There is only 1 gas charge in the statue, requiring the Magi 
reset the trap when necessary. 




ie 




Se a eee TE 




EES Peet AA ot a a PN IT ATE RA 




sn a re er oe RT ROUSE 




AREA 20 - ABANDONED CEREMONIAL 
CHAMBER 




This room looks like a ruined chapel. It appears to have been 
looted and deliberately wrecked. The stone altar has been 
smashed, and no ceremonial accoutrements are present. The 
word “Zargon” has been scrawled on one wall in large letters. 




This ceremonial chamber of the old gods of Cynidicea was 
wrecked by the followers of Zargon centuries ago. Except 
for the wreckage, the room is empty. 




AREA 20A — ENTRANCE TO TIER 4 




A 20-foot-long section of the floor in the southern part 
of the room has been hinged to swing down to the west 
when anyone steps on it. A successful DC 11 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check is required to locate the concealed 
catch and discover its trigger. This releases the floor, which 
swings slowly down to rest against a ramp in area 38, lo- 
cated on Tier 4. The hinged floor section provides a route 
to that lower tier of the Upper Pyramid. Once opened, 
characters can walk down the floor section into area 38. 




AREA 21 — CHAMBER OF MADARUA 




The door to this room is locked, requiring thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check to unlock. Pan- 
dora (see area 23) has the key. If the characters cannot 
unlock the door, it can be forced or destroyed by weapon 
blows, although this loud process alerts the Warrior Maid- 
ens in area 23. They come to investigate in 1 minute. 




Once the door is opened, continue with the following: 




Near the northeast corner of this room is an altar covered 
with a green and white cloth. On the altar sits a 3-foot-tall 
statue of a woman holding a longsword in one hand and a 
sheaf of wheat in the opposite. To each side of the statue burns 
a large white candle. In front of the altar itself, incense burns 
in three small braziers*. White drapes hang on all the walls 
and the floor is covered by a lush green carpet. The room is 
dust-free and has been scrubbed clean. The room does not ap- 
pear to be currently occupied. 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua keep their shrine clean, 
with candles and incense burning year-round. From tiny 
holes in the wall, hidden by the hanging white cloth, the 
Warrior Maidens in area 23 can hear any loud noises. 
‘The sound carries through area 22, which also has been 
fitted with listening holes. Unless all the characters are 
using Stealth, the Warrior Maidens investigate any loud 
noises in this chamber after 1 minute. If any character 




ERED 59 ER TERRE PI REDACTED SSSI TST SAE AY SSA aH ES 




oe ATVI NF 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




DAA BOS 




PSs 
SSS SS SSS 
*\ Ae 




desecrates*, or is in the process of desecrating, the shrine 
when the Warrior Maidens arrive, they are hostile. Other- 
wise, they are indifferent. 




Behind the drapes on the south wall, a secret door to area 
22 can be located with a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. 




AREA 21A — ARCH OF THE WARRIOR 
MAIDENS 




You see two 10-foot-tall statues of women warriors. The fight- 
ers wear masks with the face of the female statue on top of the 
pyramid. The two statues stand with spears outstretched to 
form an arch. The only way down the corridor appears to be 
in single file under the crossed spears. 




Just beyond the arch formed by the spears is a hidden 
pressure plate in the floor. It requires a successful DC 20 
Wisdom (Perception) check to locate the pressure plate. 
Each time someone steps on the plate, a hidden chime 
rings in area 23. The chime warns the Warrior Maidens 
that someone is approaching the shrine and reveals how 
many are in the party. 




SASSER eS UE RE STITT a ae 




TSE ATER PTE SES SEE BN BI pea SECA SOM TE PST 




AREA 22 — TREASURE ROOM OF THE 
WARRIOR MAIDENS OF MADARUA 




The room appears to be empty except for a large stone vault in 
the middle of the east wall. ‘The vault has a keyhole. It looks 
like the stone slabs that make up the vault are too heavy to 
be moved. 




The vault is trapped, of course. The trap can be detected 
with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. The 
leader of the Warrior Maidens (see area 23) has the key, 
but the lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a suc- 
cessful DC 17 Dexterity check. Any character standing in 
front of the vault who fails to open it on the first attempt 
releases a stone block from the ceiling. The target must 
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by the 
stone slab, suffering 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage. 




There are secret doors in the north and south walls. The 
northern one can be found with a DC 15 Wisdom (Per- 
ception) check and is then easy to open. The southern one 
can be located with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. The door is a solid block of stone, designed to 
slide into this chamber after the concealed catch is released. 
Figuring out the catch release requires a successful DC 11 
Intelligence (Investigation) check and 1 minute of time. 




The stone vault contains the treasure of the Warrior Maid- 
ens. Inside the vault are the following coins in organized 




stacks: 600 ep, 1,000 gp, and 300 pp. 




Development. If the stone block trap is triggered, the 
Warrior Maidens in area 23 are alerted and use the secret 
door to arrive in this chamber. Unless the characters can 
do some fast talking, the Maidens are hostile, assuming 
the characters are stealing their treasure. 




AREA 23 — WARRIOR MAIDENS OF 
MADARUA 




Ten women are seated around a table. They all wear bronze 
chain mail over green tunics. Each womant’ face is covered by 
a bronze mask depicting the face of the woman whose statue 
is atop the pyramid. 




Nine of the women are Warrior Maidens of Madarua, 
and the tenth—their leader—is the tallest and oldest of 
the women, Pandora, Champion of Madarua (see ap- 
pendix C for both). Pandora is noticeably stronger than 
the other warriors, and one of her shortswords glows blue. 
She also carries the key to the treasure vault in area 22, 
hidden in her left boot. A successful DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check is required to find the key secluded 




amen sree Te 
yA 




TEE SA SERA PAN enna Sl RE tet ne 




ESRC OT RS iy ENR 




TST AES 




oricinaL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED | e “THE Lost city 




in a flap of leather. The bronze masks worn by the women 
are ornately designed and are worth 15 gp each. 




Pandora prides herself on being a simple fighter, but she 
is a cunning opponent. She claims that swift action is the 
best solution to any problem. “When in doubt, attack,” 
she often says. She is actually much subtler than she leads 
people to believe. She always keeps track of the odds. 
While she often uses force to settle problems, she tries to 
make sure that the odds are in her favor. She is respected 
by the other warriors, and they fight to the death while she 
still stands to lead them. She is openly friendly to outsid- 
ers and welcomes appropriate candidates to the faction. 




If the characters were observed desecrating the Warrior 
Maidens’ shrine (area 21), stealing their treasure (area 22), 
or openly supporting one of the other factions, the War- 
rior Maidens begin the encounter hostile. In this case, it 
requires fast talking and a successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Deception or Persuasion) check to halt their attack long 
enough to open negotiations. Otherwise, the Warrior 
Maidens are indifferent, and curious regarding the arrival 
of such strangers. Pandora, always interested in stacking 
the odds, could be convinced to allow one or more of the 
appropriate characters to join their faction (see sidebar for 
details). This likely requires astute roleplaying, or a few suc- 
cessful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) checks. If the char- 
acters produce any evidence they have clashed with any of 
the other factions, these checks are made with advantage. 




The secret door in the north wall works the same way as 
described in area 22. A character unfamiliar with its opera- 
tion must make a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to locate it, and then spend 1 minute and make 
a successful DC 11 Intelligence (Investigation) check to 
figure out how to open it. 




AREA 24 - CEREMONIAL CHAMBERS 
OF GORM 




The walls, ceiling, and floor of this room have been painted sky 
blue. A golden marble altar, surrounded by golden candlehold- 
ers and braziers, rests along the middle of the east wall. On top 
of the altar is a small stone statue of a bearded man throwing a 
lightning bolt. Next to the statue rests a golden boul. 




These are the ceremonial chambers of Gorm, where new 
members of the Brotherhood are initiated. Non-members 
are forbidden in this room. The initiation is simple. The 
character dresses in a white robe and ritually washes his 
hands in the bowl (which contains water). He draws his 
weapon and kneels before Gorm’s altar and then swears to 




en SE SST Ti aan TET UE 




SaSsuit en — 




GAN RT SAIC AR TE TOV EE REI HS 




e—_____________________@ 
JOiIninG THE WARRIOR MAIDENS 
OF MADARVA 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua are another group 
trying to restore the lost glories of Cynidicea. Specifi- 
cally, they martially oppose the Cult of Zargon, believ- 
ing (and rightly so) that the monster's allies are under- 
cutting the Cynidicean society. All the current members 
are Cynidicean female fighters, but they are willing to 
take female outsiders as members. Female martial 
characters (including fighters, rangers, and monks— 
but not paladins) are welcome to become full mem- 
bers. In addition to humans, dwarves, halflings, and 
elves can become full members of the Warrior Maidens 
of Madarua, but gnomes, half-orcs, and dragonborn 
are naturally distrusted. These races can only join if 
they have proven themselves in battle. All other char- 
acters may only become lesser members. 




Characters wanting to become full members need to 
undergo a short initiation ceremony. The character 
draws her sword and pricks one of her fingers with 
it. She then smears the blood from her finger on the 
sword blade. The sword is then placed on the altar of 
Madarua, while the character swears to uphold the 
honor of Madarua, even with her own blood if neces- 
sary. Finally, a small sickle is branded on the inside of 
the initiate's left wrist. Full members are then given 
bronze masks (15 gp) and green robes. 




Lesser members are not to be initiated but can attend 
the ceremony. Lesser members are given a bronze 
bracelet (5 gp) showing Madarua's face. The bracelets, 
robes, and masks are kept in a stronghold in the un- 
derground city. It takes about half a day for these items 
to be fetched. While the characters wait, the Warrior 
Maidens aid them against wandering monsters. Food 
and drink are provided, and areas 21 through 23 are 
considered to be a “safe” area. No wandering monster 
checks are made, and the characters can enjoy the ben- 
efits of a long rest without interruption. 




e “ene SAVE 
uphold the ideals of the Brotherhood and to promote the 
worship of Gorm. Finally, the new member receives a tat- 




too of a blue lightning bolt on his right shoulder. 




There are two gold candelabras (50 gp each) and four 
small gold braziers (75 gp each). The golden bowl is plain 
and worth 150 gp. 




ORIGINAL 




The secret door in the west wall requires a successful DC 
18 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. The door pivots 
on a center pole and can be opened by applying pressure 
on the left-hand side. Beyond is a 20-foot corridor with 
a ladder at the far end that leads up to area 12 on Tier 2. 




AREA 24A —- DOOR TRAP 




You see an iron door at the end of the corridor. The door has 
three lightning bolts engraved on it. 




The door guards the ceremonial chamber of Gorm (area 
24). When anyone comes within 10 feet of the door, it 
glows with a crackling blue light. Anyone who touches 
the door without saying the proper words automatically 
takes 2 (1d4) lightning damage. Once the words “By the 
great god Gorm” are spoken in Cynidicean, the door stops 
glowing and it is safe to enter. 




The door is locked, and Kanadius (see area 12) has the 
key. The door lock can be picked by a character willing to 
take damage during the attempt. It requires thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 17 Dexterity check to pick the lock. 




Each failed attempt incurs more damage. 




KEY TO TIER 4 (MAP 4) 
Tier 4 holds the burial chambers of King Alexander, 




Queen Zenobia, and major nobles, clerics, and others 
who lived during their reign. 




AREA 25 - NOBLEMAN’S BURIAL ROOM 




This room has scenes of warfare painted on the walls. It also 
has a large wooden sarco phagus* standing upright along the 
south wall. Painted on the outside of the sarcophagus is the 
picture of a warrior in armor. Squatting on each side of the 
sarcophagus is a large ape with white fur. 




These two creatures are white apes. The white apes have 
made this room their lair. When the room door is opened, 
the apes beat their chests and threaten the party, clearly 
an act of hostility. If their threats are ignored, they attack 
anyway. These primates have gathered a plentiful supply 
of rocks for use as ranged weapons to defend their lair. 




Inside the sarcophagus is a mummified body wearing plate 
armor and holding a longsword. Although the longsword 




does not glow, it isa magical +/ longsword. 




AREA 25A —- GHOSTLY HAUNTS 




As you walk down the corridor, the shimmering, ghostlike 
figures of a man and a woman appear before you. They are 




oe: 




: 




SE 
| 25a) 


2 a 
npr 




i) 
2 


& 
a 




Hom 




; by 
Gy 4 ; 4 » 
> ® Trap Door on Floor —%¥ ! 
Z % Ws y 
OG —& Door 
“yoy yi 
Ye’, S— Secret Door tg 
%y ” R 
Yt i Rubble * Ms 
j Mc meal - iY 
la _____} Hinged Floor Section 
BFP i. 
YN a * 
Yh ‘ 4 Yi Pe 4 EY 
hy 0 ppp ty 6 “ oo e W..: 
%G WZ Uy Y Y Y le - 
L YY My, A Pr 
Gi a 
g y) % & % 4 Uh @ % i 5) o” 
AA g & Q “4 
; a 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




raises his hand and gestures for you to stop. 




“Go no further,” he warns, “lest the curse of King Alexander 
overtake you!” 




‘T am Queen Zenobia,” the woman says. “Turn back; only 
death awaits you!” 




The shimmering figures of King Alexander and Queen 
Zenobia are haunts*. After they deliver their dire warn- 
ing, each character that can see and hear the haunts must 
succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become 
frightened for the next 1 minute. This effect is similar to 
a fear spell. Affected characters drop whatever they are 
holding and must take a Dash action to move away from 
the haunts. 




The haunts are otherwise harmless. The haunts are incor- 
poreal and cannot be hurt by physical attacks or spells. 
They materialize each time a living creature enters the cor- 
ridor. A character making a successful saving throw can 
pass through the corridor normally. 




The secret door on the southern wall can only be located 
if a character gets past the haunts. It can be located with 
a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, since the 
door is slightly off-color from the surrounding walls. The 
stone surface slides to the west to provide access to area 




20. 




AREA 26 - TOMB ANNEX 




The floor of this long, narrow room has a red and white check- 
erboard pattern of 2-foot-by-2-foot squares. Court scenes are 
painted on the north and south walls. In the east wall, there is 
a 2-foot-high opening at floor level near the southeast corner. 




This hall is the annex to the burial chambers of King Al- 
exander and Queen Zenobia. This corridor was kept open 
when the pyramid was built in order to bring in the bod- 
ies of the king and queen. After the funerals, the corridor 
was sealed from the outside. 




AREA 26A — TOMB TRAPS 




Three pendulum blades are hidden in the ceiling. It re- 
quires a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check to 
discover the trap before it is triggered. A target that makes 
this check has advantage on its first Dexterity saving 
throw to avoid the blades. Each of the pendulum blades 
need to be located separately and likewise each needs to 
be disabled with a separate action. It requires thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 21 Dexterity check to disable each 
pendulum blade. If a character walks on any of the three 
marked squares, roll 1d6. On a roll of 1 the trap is trig- 
gered. Victims caught in the trap, or characters who try 
to run through the swinging blades, must make a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw or suffer 11 (2d10) slashing dam- 
age. The pendulum shafts are covered with a sticky green 
goo that looks like green slime, but the goo is harmless. 
The blades swing for 10 minutes, then automatically reset. 




Special 10-foot-square ceiling blocks were designed to 
fall and block the passage after the burials. The 2-foot- 
high opening in the east wall was formed when one block 
failed to fall all the way. The result is a 2-foot-high crawl- 
space between the floor and the bottom of the block. A 
Medium-sized creature can squeeze through the area. The 
block looks like it will fall no further, but the DM should 
increase the tension by telling the party that they hear 
creaking noises coming from the stone block as they are 
crawling underneath it. 




The next obstacles the party must overcome are two stone 
blocks that cracked into rubble when they fell. It takes 
the characters 2 man-hours to clear away enough rubble 
so they can go further. For example, it would take two 
characters an hour to clear the rubble, but four characters 
would only take 30 minutes. This is a noisy process, so 
the DM should make an extra wandering monster check 
during the excavation. 




The final obstacle is a narrow, twisting corridor, wide 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City ¢ 89 




enough for but one Medium-sized creature to pass 
through at a time. The corridor was formed when several 
stone blocks fell crookedly. 




AREA 27 -COUNCILOR’S BURIAL ROOM 
The door to this room has a 2-foot-wide hole in it near the 
floor. 


When the characters enter the chamber, continue: 




Painted on the walls of this room are scenes of a throne room 
with a man giving advice to kings and queens. In the center of 
the room lies a wooden coffin. Large holes have been gnawed 




in the sides of the coffin. 




The holes in the coffin and the door have been gnawed by 
three giant shrews (see appendix B). The giant shrews have 
burrowed through a weak spot in the door and use the hole 
as an exit when they go hunting in the pyramid corridors. 
The giant shrews now lair inside the coffin. The body and 
any treasure that was once inside have been stolen. 




Like bats, giant shrews depend on sound “echoes” to “see.” 
Therefore, a silence spell blinds them while in its area of 
effect. This fact can be recalled by a character spending an 
action and making a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Na- 
ture) check. The giant shrews attack with ferocity once 
they detect potential prey in the chamber, and they fight 
to the death. 




AREA 27A — TRAPDOOR 




In the middle of the floor at this point is a large stone slab 
with a bronze ring bolted deeply into it. 




The slab is a trapdoor. It is heavy and requires a successful 
DC 17 Strength check to open, although another char- 
acter can Help with this check. When the trapdoor is 
opened, the party discovers an iron ladder leading down 
to area 44 on Tier 5. 




AREA 28 —- HIGH PRIEST’S BURIAL 




ROOM 


The door to this room is scorched, as is the end of the corridor. 
The outline of a man-sized humanoid form is etched into the 
scorched wall section. The door to the room is slightly open, 
but not enough to see inside. 




The man-sized outline is that of a ghoul. The ghoul was 
blasted to ashes when it accidently triggered the magical 
trap guarding the door. Now that the trap has been trig- 
gered, the door can be opened safely. 




Along the walls of the chamber are paintings of a priest 
performing ceremonies. On a raised dais* in the middle 
of the room lies an open bronze sarcophagus. Here, three 
hideous, beast-like humanoids are tearing a mummified 
body apart with their sharp claws. The three creatures are 
ghouls and when disturbed ignore the mummified body 




they are feeding on and move to attack. 




Tossed inside the sarcophagus is a gold necklace set with 
blue and purple quartz (1,500 gp) and two gold bracelets 
studded with rosy quartz (600 gp each). The ghouls have 
stripped them from the body and discarded these valuables. 




AREA 29 —- EMBALMING ROOM 




This room contains several large stone tables. Around the 
walls are a number of large jars and casks. There is a bin in 
the northwest corner of the room. 




This room was used for embalming* bodies prior to burial. 
Concealed in the dimness of the room are five shadows. 
They use their Shadow Stealth trait to attempt to surprise 
the characters. These intelligent ghost-like creatures look 
like real shadows. Shadows have many damage resistances 
and immunities, so the DM might want to warn the char- 
acters if their attacks are ineffective, or even encourage 
them to flee. Note that a cleric turning undead or the use 
of radiant damage sources might sway the tide of battle. 




If the party destroy the shadows, they can search the 
room. The jars and casks are filled with various spices used 
in embalming. The spices have been stored in this room 
so long that they are now worthless. ‘The bin is filled with 
rotten linen winding cloths. Underneath the rotten linen 
are several worthless embalming tools plus a potion of in- 
visibility. Hidden under a cask covering an open cavity 
carved into the floor is an unlocked chest. It requires a 
successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check to find the 
chest. The chest is filled with 3,000 gp. 




AREA 30 — LADY-IN-WAITING’S BURIAL 
ROOM 




The door opens to reveal a 40-foot-square chamber. A white 
ivory coffin lies in a niche in the east wall. Painted on the 
walls are scenes from court life, focusing on the life of ladies- 
in-waiting to a queen. 




The floor of this room is covered with a thick layer of dust. 
Except for the coffin, the room is empty. The coffin itself 
is also empty. 




AREA 31 —- GUARD CAPTAIN’S BURIAL 
ROOM 




A mummified human in plate armor and holding a halberd 
stands at attention against the west side of the south wall. 
Grouped around the mummy are nine skeletons holding 
longswords, also at attention. 




The mummified body is one of the guard captains from 
the reign of King Alexander. It is not undead and its ar- 
mor and weapons are functional. The nine skeletons are 
animated and attack the party as soon as the characters 
enter the room proper. They are armed with longswords, 
wielded with two hands (+2 to hit, 5 [1d10] slashing dam- 
age). The skeletons fight until destroyed. 




There is no treasure here. 




AREA 32 —- QUEEN ZENOBIA’S BURIAL 
CHAMBER 




The walls of this room are plain stone. An oblong box made 


from stone slabs lies in the center of the room. The box is 3 
feet high, 7 feet long, and 3 feet wide. Written in several lan- 
guages on the side of the box are the words: “May the curse 
of darkness destroy all who dare desecrate my resting place.” 




The stone box contains the wooden coffin of Queen Ze- 
nobia. If the coffin is opened, the party discovers that Ze- 
nobia is now a wight. She attacks as soon as the coffin is 
opened, and unless the characters take precautions, she is 
granted surprise by the suddenness of her attack. She has 
no weapons, so she is limited to using her Life Drain. 




The queen’s chamber once contained a treasure trove. 
However, the only treasure left is the gold crown set with 
rubies she wears (5,000 gp) and her scepter, a gold-gilded 
shaft set with mother-of-pearl. Although it appears to be 
worth 250 gp, it is actually a wand of paralysis. The com- 
mand word (“ffits”) can be found cunningly hidden along 
the shaft with a successful DC 17 Intelligence (Investiga- 
tion) check. Since becoming a creature of darkness, she 
has forgotten how to use the wand. 




AREA 33 — FALSE TOMB 




This room contains two large sarcophagi gleaming with gold- 
en highlights. One sarcophagus is marked “Alexander,” the 
other is marked “Zenobia.” Surrounding the sarco phagi are a 
number of large wooden chests. The room is littered with bro- 
ken objects: two smashed thrones, a broken chariot, smashed 
pottery, broken weapons, and torn clothing. Piles of bones 
cover the floor. On the walls is a mosaic* showing famous 




etna gee pea tN ABT RET ES TSM TIES SE ES LAD 




Searee 




= SESRED ROS M TTE SES 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES: REINCARNATED e “THE Lost city "4 




Lk EES TE SSS oT 




events from the reign of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia. 




This is not the real tomb of King Alexander and Queen 
Zenobia. This is a fake tomb to fool graverobbers. The 
bodies inside the sarcophagi are actually those of royal 
slaves. The real burial chambers of the king and queen are 
areas 32 and 34, respectively. 




‘The sarcophagi are made of wood, painted to look like 
gold. This fact can be discerned with a successful DC 
14 Intelligence (Investigation) check. The chests contain 
small items a king and queen might need in the afterlife. 
All the items have been ritually “killed” (broken, ripped, 
or smashed) just like the larger items littering the floor. 
The piles of bones are the remains of royal slaves and royal 
animals killed after the funeral. 




The four chests are unlocked and apparently contain 5,000 
sp, 3,000 ep, 6,000 gp, and 2,000 pp, respectively. In the 
sarcophagi are 50 assorted gems and 12 pieces of jewelry. 
All coins and treasure are cheap counterfeits, which can 
be determined with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (In- 
vestigation) check. The actual value of all the items in the 
room is only 450 gp. 




There are two secret doors concealed in this chamber. 
Each leads to a real tomb: one for the king and one for 
the queen. The doors are cunningly hidden, requiring a 
successful DC 21 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. 
If the characters tap on the walls with a hard object, they 
have advantage on the checks to find the secret doors 
due to hollow sounds. Each door has an elaborate lock- 
ing mechanism that needs to be tripped before it can be 
opened, requiring a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Inves- 
tigation) check. Of course, the characters could also break 
down the stone doors (AC 18, 40 hit points, vulnerability 
to bludgeoning damage, resistance to piercing and slash- 
ing damage), but this creates quite a bit of noise which 
requires at least an extra wandering monster check. 




AREA 34 —- KING ALEXANDER’S BURIAL 
CHAMBER 




The walls of this room are bare. In the center of the room is 
an oblong box made from stone slabs. Suddenly, rising out of 
the stone box is a translucent, ghost-like figure. The pale figure 
has glowing red eyes and a gaping dark mouth. 




The figure is a banshee, a twisted, evil undead creature 
that mourns for King Alexander. It is guarding King Al- 
exander’s grave and begins the encounter by wailing. The 
DM should describe the banshee’s piercing wail and tell 




MTORR TS =I Tense 




the party they can feel an icy, death-like chill. If the char- 
acters heed the warning, any who win initiative can flee 
and leave the area of effect. Otherwise, all creatures within 
30 feet of the wailing must succeed on a DC 13 Constitu- 
tion saving throw or be reduced to 0 hit points. If it still 
faces combatants following the wail, the banshee uses its 
Horrifying Visage or touch attack as appropriate. 




King Alexander’s tomb was looted long ago, except for 
the treasure inside a wooden coffin secluded inside the 
stone box. King Alexander wears a gold crown set with 
diamonds (5,000 gp). The body is clad in +/ plate armor 
and a +2 greatsword lies by its side. 




AREA 35 — SLAVES’ BURIAL ROOM 
This room is filled with twisted piles of bones on the floor. 




Several intact skeletons are strewn about among the piles like 
discarded playthings. They cover the floor so thickly that it is 




impossible to walk across the room without walking on bones. 




The floor of this chamber is considered difficult terrain. 
The skeletons are the remains of household slaves be- 
longing to the various individuals buried in the pyramid. 
Upon the deaths of their masters, the slaves were herded 
together and killed, then unceremoniously tossed into this 
room. The skeletons are merely bones and not undead. 
There is nothing of value among the bone piles. 




There is a secret door situated on the east wall. It can be 
located with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The door trigger is a concealed knob that needs to 
be twisted counterclockwise, allowing the door to slide to 




the left. 




AREA 36-CHAMBERLAIN’S BURIAL ROOM 




The walls of this room show painted scenes of a man signing 
documents and organizing tax collection. A wooden coffin 
that has been smashed open is lying on the floor. Six pale- 
skinned humans stand around the coffin, picking through the 
splintered wooden fragments. The all have pallid skin and 




sport wounds grievous enough to kill a normal person. 




The six humans are zombies. They mindlessly shamble to 
attack the party on sight and some of them grab jagged 
pieces of timber to bludgeon their targets. These impro- 
vised greatclubs are wielded two-handed (+3 to hit, 5 [1d8 
+ 1] bludgeoning damage); the other zombies rely on slam 
attacks, and all fight until destroyed. 




The coffin has already been looted. 




AREA 37 — GIANT RAT LAIR 
This room appears to be empty except for an oddly shaped 




mound in the southwest corner of the room. Rustling and 
faint squeaking noises seem to come from the mound. 




Ten 3-foot-long, gray rats have made a nest out of dis- 
carded rotting cloth, burlap, and organic woody debris in 
the corner of the room. These are diseased giant rats. If 
the nest is disturbed, the rats attack to defend their lair. If 
the characters avoid the nest, there is only a 30% chance 
the rats become aggressive and attack. If six or more of the 
rats are defeated, those remaining flee into a small passage 
in the west wall. 




The rats’ nest conceals a small hole in the west wall. This 
hole is just big enough for a Small-sized creature (such as a 
giant rat) to squeeze through. It leads toward the corridor 
to the west, but it terminates at a rough-hewn cavity, the 
giant rat’s nest. Inside the rat’s nest are 300 gp and four 
matching pieces of alexandrite (500 gp each). 




AREA 38 — JESTER’S BURIAL ROOM 




DM Note: The floor from the tier above (area 20a) swings 
down to meet a ramp in this room. The hinge and edges 
of this opening can be observed when the characters enter 
the chamber. 




Painted on the walls of this room are court scenes showing 
King Alexander and Queen Zenobia being entertained by a 
dwarven jester. A small co ffin rests in a niche in the east wall 
and in each corner of the room is a 4-foot-high brass jar. 




If the lid of the coffin is touched, it springs off and an 
oversized wooden model of the head of the dwarven jester, 
painted in bright colors, springs up. The head is attached 
to a coiled spring like a jack-in-the-box. Although it likely 
startles the characters, the effect is otherwise harmless. 
The coffin also contains the ashes of the jester. 




The brass jars look empty, but items put completely into 
any of them are instantly teleported into a large concealed 
hollow beneath the coffin. The jars were used by the jester 
as his master trick, in which he made items disappear to 
amuse the court. The characters can locate the 8-foot-di- 
ameter hollow by simply moving the coffin, or via a suc- 
cessful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. The hollow is 




empty, unless the characters placed any objects in the jars. 




AREA 39- NOBLE LADY’S BURIAL ROOM 
A sarcophagus rests on a dais in the center of the room. The 
dais is 10 feet on a side. From each corner of the dais rises a 
slender, 6-foot-tall column. The tops of the columns meet the 




sar aR ee ee ee ee Ae i Re 




pura eee err ee cee ananarasarm saints nineties 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




EE Ee FL ESN ESLER US SRNR RAE LIAS LIAL TNL ED OE ETN RE ETRE ONES 




ET LE TTS AS EP IT 




corners of an arched dome above the sarcophagus. On the 
dais at each end of the sarcophagus is a brass jar from which 
flames dance, throwing flickering illumination throughout 
the chamber. Finally, the walls of this room are painted with 
scenes from the life of a noble lady. 




The noble lady’s mummified body rests in the sarcopha- 
gus. The jewelry once worn by the corpse has been stolen. 
The brass jars are bolted to the floor; their flames are con- 
jured by a continual flame spell and last until dispelled. 
However, behind one of the brass jars is a small bronze 
tube that can be located with a thorough search of the 
room, or a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
It contains a rolled-up piece of parchment. The parchment 
is a crude map of the southwest part of this tier, marked 
with a large black “X.” The “X” represents the location of 
the trapdoor at 27a. If the characters find this map, show 
them Handout #5 in appendix D. 




AREA 39A — ROLLING BOULDER TRAP 




DM Note: This corridor is sloped slightly down, from the 
north to the south. This fact can be discerned following 
examination of the stone floor and a successful DC 20 
Intelligence (History) check. Any character who reaches 
the west door to room 39 triggers a pressure plate that 
activates the trap. The wall in the north corridor slides 
open and a 5-foot-diameter boulder rolls out of the hid- 
den area. The boulder rolls 40 feet down the long corridor 
on initiative count 5. When it stops, it blocks the corner 
near area 40. 




This boulder trap is not designed to kill targets, only scare 
them. Unless the characters do something obviously stu- 
pid (like standing and arguing while the boulder is rolling 
toward them), the DM should let the characters escape 
after a close call, either into the room or around one of 
the corners. The DM should describe the rolling boulder 
as graphically as possible: crashing sounds echoing down 
the corridor, stone chips flying where the boulder smashes 
against the wall, the corridor floor shaking from the force 
of the boulder, etc. Perhaps a few Dexterity saving throws 
should be called for, but only a natural 1 would have dire 
results, as determined by the DM. The encounter should 
be exciting, but not deadly. 




If the boulder strikes a character, it does 16 (3d10) bludg- 
eoning damage. The boulder stops after it strikes one 
character, is blocked with a large sturdy item, or reaches 
the end of the hall. This trap would need to be manually 
reset. Pushing the boulder requires a successful DC 15 
Strength check. 




EGP TN eT HENS LTE a steed 




TT 




Bag 
o) 
y] 




Z 
Ml) 




‘1 NG NS 
IN ORS 
NOR ‘ 


AREA 40 — MASTER THIEF’S BURIAL 
ROOM 
The door to this room is locked and the key has long since 
been lost. It can be forced open, or the lock picked with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. 




This 30-foot-square chamber is dusty. An elaborate jeweled 
coffin lies in the center of the room. 




Concealed on the ceiling, 15 feet overhead, is a carrion 
crawler. The carrion crawler can be detected with a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, otherwise it 
attacks a random character with surprise. It dangles from 
the ceiling while it attacks. It prefers its meals tenderized, 
so once it paralyzes a creature, it draws it up to the ceiling 
and then drops it on the stone floor for 3 (1d6) bludgeon- 




ing damage; it then targets another creature. 




Hidden in the northeast corner of the ceiling is a 2-foot- 
wide shaft the carrion crawler used to enter the chamber. 
It can be found with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Per- 
ception) check. A Small-sized creature (or a worm-like 
creature, such as the crawler) can squeeze through it. It 
can lead to an area or corridor on Tier 2 or Tier 3, or the 
surface at the DM’s discretion. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City yw 93 




‘The jewels on the coffin include 10 violet garnets and 20 
pieces of deep green jade. All the gems are worth 3,000 
gp, although it takes about 30 minutes to pry them out 
of the wood. 




There is a body inside the coffin, that of a master thief 
from the reign of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia that 
used his skills to steal a place near the King and Queen in 
the afterlife. He managed to exchange his own coffin for 
that of the nobleman who was supposed to be buried in 
this room. Concealed on his body is a fine set of lockpicks 
(worth 50 gp for the craftsmanship). 




TIER 5 
(DUNGEON LEVEL 3) 




The third dungeon level consists only of Tier 5 (areas 41- 
58). This tier, including the pyramid’s main entrance, is 
buried under the sand, and thus noticeably a few degrees 
cooler. Hidden in the main entry chamber (area 50) is a 
secret door to a passage leading to the underground city 




(detailed in chapter 6). 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The pyramid is made of large, smooth 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the pyramid is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 30 minutes of exploration. At the DM’s 
discretion, wandering monster checks can be called for if 
the characters make a prolonged amount of loud noise, 
such as combat. Roll 1d8 for the type of monster encoun- 
tered or choose one from the table below. Ihe DM should 
also adjust the number of creatures encountered based on 
the size of the party, their average level, and their general 




health. 




CYNIDICEANS 




‘The Cynidiceans (see appendix C) are degenerate humans 
that live underground in the Lost City. They have pale, 
pasty skin, with bone-white hair and oversized eyes. Cy- 
nidiceans typically wear masks and brightly colored robes 
and often are acting out strange dreams when encoun- 
tered (see the “DM’s Background” section in chapter 3 
for more information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, 
usable for all dungeon levels, are presented in appendix 
C. The DM may randomly determine one of these en- 
counters or use them as a guide to design her own. This 
could also be an encounter with members of one of the 




stone blocks. The rooms are made of bare stone slabs, ex- factions. 
cept where noted otherwise. It’s not uncommon for inte- 
rior locations to be covered with a few inches of sand. GIANT ANTS 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 
feet high, while room ceilings are 15 feet high. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 17, 
35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, resist- 
ance to piercing and slashing damage) and push inward to 
open. A door that is barred or stuck can be burst open with 
a successful DC 15 Strength check. A locked door can be 
forced open with a successful DC 18 Strength check. 




WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 3 




Giant ants (see appendix B) are 3-foot-long black insects, 
foraging for food. They consider the characters to be food 
and attack until destroyed. At the DM’s discretion, some- 
where on this level can be a tunnel that accesses the giant 
ant colony (see chapter 6, area T for details on this ad- 
venture location). This provides another route from the 
Upper Pyramid to the Lost City, not used by any of the 




factions or the cult of Zargon. 




D8 # App XP Source Notes 


1 Giant tiger beetles 5 100 Appendix B 


2-4 Cynidiceans Varies Varies Appendix C See description 
5 Giant ants 4 25 Appendix B 


6 Giant tuatara lizards 2 100 Appendix B 


7 Rust monster 1 100 MM, p. 262 


8 Thouls 4 200 Appendix B 




GLA LE TLE LL OT SLED LEE DEE ELSES TE NOE EEE EE ENO ISSN EEE ARETE 




onicinaL "ADVENTURES ReincaRnateD e ae port cre 




SHR ARSENE EEE TES SER SE 




SR ERIC HERE TE RATE RTE PR tO tate ten Reena TE 




cae EIR aE SL AAS IS Sa Ah ea a et art ag SURREY 




eEEenReN 




cement 




GIANT TIGER BEETLES 




Giant tiger beetles (see appendix B) are 4 feet long and 
have orange-striped black carapaces* that look like tiger 
markings. They are carnivorous and attack. 




GIANT TUATARA LIZARDS 




A giant tuatara lizard (see appendix B) is an 8-foot-long 
lizard that looks like a cross between an iguana and a 
toad. It has pebble-colored olive skin and white spikes 
along its back. It is carnivorous and attacks when hungry, 
which is most of the time. 




RUST MONSTER 




The Magi of Usamigaras often capture strange magical 
creatures to study. This rust monster was one of those, 
but it recently escaped. It is ravenously hungry; if the 
characters toss it some metal (several iron spikes, or per- 
haps a shield) it is content to break off pursuit and enjoy 
its metal meal. 




THOULS 




A thoul (see appendix B) is a magical combination of a 
ghoul, a hobgoblin, and a troll, although it is not undead. 
Thouls appear to be hobgoblins, but their true nature will 
be revealed once they attack. The thouls loosely serve the 
Priests of Zargon, occasionally hunting the levels of the 
pyramid for prisoners to take back to the temple in the 
Underground City. 




KEY TO TIER'5 (MAP 35) 




AREA 41 —- STORAGE ROOM 




Shelves line the walls of this room. Stored on the shelves are 
items used in religious ceremonies such as candles, incense, 
and clerical vestments*. Three huge, fearsome humanoid 
creatures wearing animal skins have smashed open a box of 
candles and are eating them. 




‘The three huge creatures are ogres. The ogres are not too 
bright. They thought the candles looked good to eat so 
they started eating them. They were wrong, but the ar- 
rival of the characters could be a much tastier option! 




They have three huge leather sacks holding 500 cp, 500 
sp, and 400 gp. Mixed in with the copper coins is a bronze 
ring lacking any markings but set with an orange-red gar- 
net. Although it appears to be a quite valuable mundane 
ring, it’s actually magical: a ring of resistance (fire). Unless 
the coins are dumped on the floor, it requires a success- 




SRST 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST 




ASL TE ES ATIVE SLATE TO NEE EE I ILI ET I ILL IEE 




ful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate the ring 
rummaging around through the sack. In the sack with 
the gold coins is a plain wooden scroll tube holding three 
spell scrolls. Each scroll has a single spell inscribed on it: 
arcane lock, continual flame, levitate. 




AREA 42 — CLERIC’S QUARTERS 




This room contains three bunk beds. Lying on them are hu- 
mans dressed in bright yellow robes. They wear the masks of 
a boar, a tiger, and a wolf. 




The masked humans are actually doppelgangers. The 
doppelgangers took the forms of three Cynidiceans, then 
killed the originals. They try to join the party, each choos- 
ing one victim. They are not adversely affected by bright 
light like a typical Cynidicean, which might tip off the 
characters regarding their deception. They are armed with 
daggers (+6 to hit, range 20/60 ft., 6 [1d4 + 4] piercing 
damage). 




Each doppelganger carries three gems hidden in its cloth- 
ing, requiring a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to locate. These might be secluded in a secret flap 
of a pouch, sewn into the folds of clothing, or hidden ina 
boot. Doppelganger #1 has three pieces of fossilized coral 
(50 gp each), doppelganger #2 carries three moss opals 
(250 gp each), and doppelganger #3 carries two pieces of 
snowflake obsidian (50 gp each) and a sunstone (500 gp). 




Developments. When a doppelganger has a chance to do 
it secretly, it attempts to separate a victim from the rest of 
the party. Then the doppelganger changes shape to look 
like the victim, attacking to kill. Its plan is to assume the 
character's place in the party. If successful, pull the player 
aside and explain the situation. Offer to allow the player 
to roleplay the doppelganger to set up another betrayal. 
If the player agrees and continues the deception, consider 
rewarding him or her when a new character is created. 
‘This reward could be monetary, a minor magic item, or a 
+2 bonus to the attribute of choice. 




AREA 43 — TREASURE ROOM 




DM Note: A secret door located in area 45 conceals pas- 
sage into this chamber. 




A slight breeze stirs in the room when the door is opened. A 
large, padlocked wooden chest sits near the north wall of the 
room. Behind the chest is a huge tapestry of a desert scene. 




The tapestry is actually a polymar (see appendix B), a 
creature that can assume the appearance of an object. A 




= is $s ms ay 4 
: ~, 
VW 




seaierenrasoreonmeanreserpadl 




Ma \ eT MA ALT 
a ' q) ‘Mp ik , 
MAP 5 Tier 5 




THE UPPER 
PYRAMID 




{! Door © Secret Trapdoor | 
=S= Secret Door a Pit 
>) Fountain ee 
} Curtain Sand 
eo Ladder Jy) Stairs 
; 5 Stone Doors & Statue 




[_]=10 Feet 
A 2S yt Wit ax 




s 
] 




KN 
i =i if ! 




| il : ' : : f i \ 
Giulio tas ans 




96 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ZALMAN WA 




close examination with a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check reveals that the tapestry is not ac- 
tually made from woven threads. Even without a close 
inspection, the characters have a chance to discern the 
tapestry’s true nature. A successful DC 18 Wisdom (Per- 
ception) check reveals something suspicious, such as the 
tapestry not moving in the breeze created when the door 
is opened because the polymar is much heavier than real 
fabric. The polymar attacks the first character that exam- 
ines the chest. If the polymar is not detected, it attacks 
with surprise, utilizing its Ambusher trait. 




The chest is locked but not trapped. The key has long 
since been lost but the lock can be picked using thieves’ 
tools with a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. It holds a 
mess of coins consisting of 3,000 ep and 5,000 gp. Mixed 
in with the coins is a potion of invisibility. Folded at the 
bottom of the chest under the coins are a suit of +/ chain 
mail and a +1 dagger. The armor appears to be sized for a 
dwarf, but it magically changes size to comfortably fit any 
Medium-sized humanoid creature. 




AREA 44 — SECRET ROOM 
DM Note: A secret door located in area 45 conceals pas- 




sage into this chamber. 




This 20-foot-by-20-foot dusty chamber is empty save for a 
metal ladder leading to a trapdoor in the ceiling. 




The ladder from the trapdoor at area 27a leads down into 
this room. The room is empty. 




AREA 45 - BEDROOM 




This room contains a bed, a table, a chair, a lantern, and a 
wooden holy symbol of two intertwined snakes. The furniture is 
made of wood. A hooded white robe is draped over the chair. Ex- 
cept for the furniture and the robe, the room appears to be empty. 




ORIGINAL 




ASSL PO TEI I ETE TELAT rR 




f ‘ay 
i i Uf, 
OG) ie ASO 
} 4% ‘3 
el 




Pact 
nO) 




Irmitn 




This was once the bedroom of Demetrius, a cleric dedi- 
cated to the teachings of Usamigaras. His twin brother, 
Darius, was also a cleric, but he fell into the ranks of 
the cult of Zargon. Years ago, Demetrius vowed to de- 
stroy the cult of Zargon, especially his evil brother. But 
Demetrius was assassinated before he could even begin 
his quest. Demetrius made a dying wish to Usamigaras 
that his soul persist until Darius was destroyed. His dy- 
ing wish was granted, and Demetrius is now a ghost. The 
soul of Demetrius now resides in the white robe. Any 
character touching the robe must succeed on a DC 13 
Charisma saving throw or become possessed by Deme- 
trius. (See sidebar.) While possessed, the character insists 
on wearing the robe. 




The secret doors in the north wall require separate suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks to locate. 




Developments. The DM should allow the player whose 
character has been possessed to roleplay Demetrius. Take 
the player aside privately and tell him or her what is hap- 
pening, with as much background as you think is needed. 
Encourage the player to roleplay Demetrius as much as 
possible. Be ready to remind the player, if necessary, that 
Demetrius’s only goal is to kill his brother Darius, and to 
consider disallowing player actions that do not further 
this goal. Demetrius knows the route to area 58, includ- 
ing any secret doors on the way. However, he does not 
know about any of the traps on this level. As long as the 
party moves by the quickest route to Darius (area 58), 
Demetrius aids the party to defeat monsters, using his 
defensive spells as appropriate. 




When Darius is encountered, Demetrius attacks without 
hesitation. He uses hold person on his brother, followed 
by shield of faith and striking on the possessed character 




to enhance the PC’s attacks and defense. Once Darius is 




ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City x 97 




TRL AE LE ETT 




Vue 




defeated, Demetrius’s soul can finally rest, and the white 
robe disintegrates. The possessed character is granted a 
special charm of healing as a supernatural gift. (See pp. 
227-228 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide for more on su- 
pernatural gifts.) The PC is immediately restored to their 
full hit points as Demetrius’s soul departs the possessed 
body. Award the party the equivalent of a CR 4 experi- 
ence award (1,100 XP) for completing this side quest. 




ye 
BECOMING DEMETRIUS 




When possessed by the spirit of Demetrius, the char- 
acter assumes a part of his personality. In addition, he 
can speak and read Cynidicean. Encourage the player to 
change his voice and add a few personality quirks (such 
as a lisp, or a strange accent) when roleplaying Dem- 
etrius. Though outwardly unchanged, the possessed 
character is now lawful good with an Intelligence of 
10 (+0) and a Wisdom of 16 (+3). The character is now 
a spellcaster and gains the following trait while pos- 
sessed: 
Spellcasting: The possessed character is now a 6th- 
level spellcaster. Their spellcasting ability is Wisdom 
(save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). The possessed 
character has the following cleric spells prepared (an 
asterisked spell is from appendix A): 
- Cantrips (at will): guidance, resistance, spare the dying, 
thaumaturgy 
- 1st level (4 slots): bless, cure wounds, detect evil and good, 
shield of faith 




- 2nd level: (3 slots): hold person, prayer of healing 
- 3rd level: (3 slots): mass healing word, revivify, striking” 




EEE 
AREA 46 — KITCHEN-DINING ROOM 




This room appears to be a combination kitchen and dining 
room, although it has not seen use in decades. The cupboards, 
table, and chairs are covered with a thin layer of dust. Near 
the table, two large snakes with gray-brown and yellow scales 
are coiled around the body of a woman wearing a rabbit 
mask. The woman is no longer struggling. 




The two snakes are rock pythons (see appendix B). The 
snakes attack on sight, preferring to constrict. They fight 
to the death to protect their meal. 




Around the neck of the dead Cynidicean is a silver neck- 
lace set with obsidian (700 gp). Concealed in her robes 




SEALE TES wR AP = 




is a full water bottle (1 gallon) and a small pouch of food 
(enough for one Medium-sized creature for one day). 




AREA 47 — LIVING ROOM 




This room looks like a living room. It contains wall hangings 
and ornate divans*. There are several pieces of stone sculpture 
in the room, as well as an iron statue of a warrior on each side 
of the doorway just inside the room. Several tapestries hang 
on the walls. Everything is covered by a thin layer of dust. 




The statues are actually living iron statues (see appendix 
B). The statues attack if a creature enters the room and 
allows the door to swing shut. The door is equipped with 
a spring-loaded hinge, so it automatically shuts, unless 
the door is held or jammed open. If opened after the stat- 
ues attack, they cease their aggression and return to their 
pedestals*. 




The stone sculptures are crude and worthless, depicting 
typical desert creatures. The tapestries are likewise worth- 




less and fall apart if disturbed. 
AREA 48 - HIDDEN GUARDROOM 




DM Note: The corner passage that leads to this room 
is behind a secret door, which requires a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. To open it, a 
character must push either side and it will rotate on a 
central axis. 




Four humans wearing stylized rat masks and red robes 
trimmed with rat fur sit at a table deep in conversation. 
They leap to their feet, drawing shortswords, awaiting your 
next move. In the northeast corner of the room are stairs go- 
ing down. 




The four humans are wererats, disguised as Cynidiceans 
so they can safely rob the citizens when they get a chance. 
They are holed up in this chamber plotting their next ca- 
per. If two of them are killed or disabled, the remaining 
two assume giant rat form and attempt to flee. 




The wererats have a small unlocked chest under the table. 
It holds 2,000 sp and four gems: two moonstones (50 
gp each), a pale green chrysoberyl (100 gp), and a black 
pearl (500 gp). 




The stairs end in a bricked-up wall, blocking the access 
to the Lower Pyramid (area 61). This stone wall can be 
broken through with 20 man-hours of hard labor. This 
noisy process incurs the usual wandering monster checks 
every 30 minutes, and might attract something from Tier 
6, once the characters finally break through! 




AI SLOG ESET RE TE st ON SRR Groen 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AREA 49 — CONSULTATION ROOM 




This room is paneled with wood and a dusty carpet covers 
the floor. A large, heavy desk sits in the center of the room. 
Several wooden chairs are grouped north of the desk. Behind 
the desk is a large plush chair, while behind the chair on 
the south wall is a mounted lions head. Four large painted 
urns* stand in the corners of the room. Finally, on both sides 
of the north doorway are stone pedestals with stone statues of 
winged demonic humanoid beasts. These beasts bear wicked 
claws and fangs, and horns adorn the crowns of their heads. 




The two statues are gargoyles, using their False Appear- 
ance trait to appear as inanimate statues. If the party is on 
their guard, roll initiative normally. Otherwise, the gar- 
goyles attack with surprise shortly after the party enters 
the room. They fight until destroyed. 




The desk has three drawers and a locked cabinet. The key 
is hidden under the urn in the southeast corner of the 
room, requiring a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check to locate. The lock could also be picked with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. 
The wooden cabinet could also be smashed open with a 
few blows from a bludgeoning weapon, but this shatters 
the delicate glass bottle holding the potion. Inside the 
cabinet are 2,000 ep in four tied sacks, a +1 mace, and 
a potion of poison. Hidden in the cushion of the plush 
chair are 18 bloodstones (100 gp each); it requires a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check to locate 
the gems. The urns are copper, empty, and worthless. The 
mounted lion head has deteriorated over time and is like- 
wise worthless. 




AREA 49A — PIT TRAP 




The floor at this intersection conceals a hidden 10-foot- 
deep pit filled with spikes. The pit can be detected with 
a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check. A char- 
acter tapping the floor with a 10-foot pole or the butt 
of a spear has advantage on this check. The pit is trig- 
gered when 50 or more pounds of weight are placed on 
it. It can be disabled by jamming the hinge (using an 
iron spike, for example), but this requires a successful DC 
13 Intelligence (Investigation) check to determine, and 
a successful DC 17 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools 
to perform. Characters falling into the pit take 3 (1d6) 
bludgeoning damage from the fall plus 11 (2d10) pierc- 
ing damage from the spikes that line the floor of the pit. 
The lid does not lock closed after the trap is triggered. 




DM Note: Recall that Demetrius does not know about 
this pit, should he be possessing one of the characters on 
the way to defeat his brother. 




AREA 50 — MAIN ENTRY CHAMBER 




the high, arched ceiling of this room is supported by a double 
row of pillars. Each pillar is carved into a statue of a king 
or queen of Cynidicea. A series of mosaic pictures decorate 
the walls of the room. These start in the northeast corner 
and continue clockwise around the room. Inthe center of the 
north wall is a pair of huge stone doors. At the base of the 
double doors, the floor is partially covered with sand. 




The mosaics show scenes from the history of Cynidicea. 
From the northeast corner and moving clockwise, the 
mosaics depict: 




1. A tribe of squat, heavy-browed humanoids wielding 
crude stone weapons worship a lizard-headed god. 




2. A large band of tall, black-haired humans battle the 




humanoids and take over their hunting grounds. 




3. A village rises over the scene of the battle. In the arid 
lands around the village are fields of grain and vast 




herds of cattle and sheep. 




4. A great leader arises in time of need and gathers the 
villagers into an army that destroys an enemy army of 
snake-headed humanoids. 




5. The victorious leader is crowned king, thus founding 
the line of the rulers of Cynidicea. 




6. The stone city of Cynidicea is built on the site where 
the village once stood. 




7. Scenes of the splendor of the kingdom at its height. 
8. The births of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia. 
9. The great pyramid is built. 




10. Slaves digging under the pyramid uncover the foun- 
dations of a prehistoric temple. 




11. The deaths of King Alexander and Queen Zenobia 
and their burial in the pyramid. 




12. The worship of the old gods Gorm, Usamigaras, and 
Madarua is replaced by the worship of a large hu- 
manoid with many tentacles. 




13. Life becomes a year-round carnival for the Cynid- 
iceans. All Cynidiceans are now masked. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




14. The Cynidiceans meet a barbaric, golden-haired peo- 
ple (the ancestors of the Heldann tribes mentioned in 




OAR #2: The Isle of Dread). 




15. The final picture is not a mosaic. It is a crudely paint- 
ed sketch that shows the barbaric tribesmen looting 
Cynidicea. 




There is room on the wall for more pictures, but the 
space is blank. The huge doors, which open outward, are 
blocked by sand and cannot be opened, as this level is 
buried. There is no treasure here. 




AREA 50A — SECRET ENTRANCE TO 
THE UNDERGROUND CITY 




This secret trapdoor leads to a passageway to the under- 
ground city (see chapter 6, area S). The party can find 
this trapdoor only if the DM is continuing the adventure 
below the Upper Pyramid. It is at the DM’s discretion 
on whether a successful Wisdom (Perception) check is 
required to locate the trapdoor. The recommended DC 
would be 20, but to move the adventure on, the trap- 
door might be damaged or partially open and easy to spot 
without a skill check. 




AREA 51 — CHAPEL 




This large room is obviously a place of worship. On each 
side of a broad center aisle are rows of high-backed wooden 
benches. Narrow aisles along the walls run past ornate mo- 
saics to two small fountains set into the walls. Just past the 
fountains, a large dais fills the southern end of the room. On 
the dais, near a stone altar, lie three large toppled statues 
that look similar to the ones on top of the pyramid. A man 
and a woman stand near the toppled statues talking softly to 
each other. They wear brightly colored clothing and delicate 
bronze fox masks. Both have red hair and there seems to be a 
resemblance between them. 




fr. 
gf %, eee SLR hy ec IES AE TB SS PTL ERS ET ITS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




<TD eee ee SEP ESOS == ——— 




This twin brother and sister—Danara and Danielth—are 




werefoxes (see appendix B) currently in humanoid form. 
They are disguised as Cynidiceans (their masks are worth 
50 gp each) to be more efficient at gathering supplies and 
hunting for loot. When they notice the characters, they 
feign being friendly while sizing up their opponents. A 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals their 
deception. These werefoxes may bargain with the party or 
try to charm them. If possible, they prefer to try to trick 
the party out of as much treasure and/or magic items as 
possible. The male especially tries to trade his magic helm 
(which is cursed) claiming it to be a helm of comprehend- 
ing languages. They rely on their wits to survive and avoid 
a physical confrontation with obviously stronger groups. 
Once they determine who the leader is, they target that 
character with their charm person spells. 




If attacked, they polymorph into fox form to escape. If 
hard pressed, they may turn back into humanoid form 
and surrender, especially if one of them is captured. But 
this is another deception, as the werefoxes lie, cheat, 
bribe, and eventually betray the party in order to survive. 
‘The female werefox wears three pieces of jewelry, includ- 
ing a gold ring (250 gp), a pair of gold earrings set with 
emeralds (1,000 gp), and a gold tiara set with mother-of- 
pearl (1,750 gp). She also wields a +/ shortsword (+5 to 
hit, 6 [1d6 + 3] piercing damage) that casts light on com- 
mand (“thirb-thilg”). The male werefox carries a helm of 
opposite alignment (see appendix A) and a potion. So far, 
he has been afraid to test the potion and doesnt know 
what it is. The fizzy light blue liquid is a potion of levita- 
tion (see appendix A). 




This room was once the main chapel for Cynidicea. It is 
seldomly used now. The fountains are fed by an under- 
ground lake and can provide all the water the party needs 
to drink or to fill their waterskins. 




ita 




A ESE OST 




SSA RE A A 




TSR A Ye mo a FURAN RT 




AREA 52 — TRAP ROOM 




The entire room is a large sunken pool filled with a bub- 
bling liquid. An acrid smell assaults your nostrils shortly af- 
ter opening the door. In the center of the room is a box made 
of stone slabs. ‘The lid of the box is about a foot above the 
surface of the liquid and is locked with a large iron padlock. 




The bubbling liquid is acid, about 6 feet deep throughout 
the chamber. The acid destroys any material except stone 
and causes 7 (2d6) acid damage each turn a creature 
comes into contact with it. If fully immersed, it causes 35 
(10dG) acid damage per turn to unprotected flesh. 




The stone box is on a special pedestal. The pedestal sinks 
at a rate of 1/2 foot per round if any additional weight is 
placed on it. If the weight is removed, the pedestal rises 
at the same rate (though never higher than 1 foot above 
the surface of the acid). The massive iron padlock takes a 
full round to pick with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 
22 Dexterity check. Inside the box are 20,000 sp and two 
spell scrolls buried in the coins. It takes 1 round to locate 
each scroll. Each is inscribed with one spell (purify food 




and drink and remove curse). 




NS cea me TEP ERE SST ESE SLR TT RG 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 4 




AREA 53 - ABANDONED CLERICAL 
QUARTERS 




This room seems oddly damp. A strange moist organic odor fills 
the air. The room contains a low bed, some wooden shelves, 
and a small chest. The contents of the room seem to shimmer, 
as if seen through clear water or a thick pane of glass. 




Just inside the doorway is a gelatinous cube. The room’s 
contents appear to shimmer due to the characters view- 
ing the room through the gelatinous cube. It requires a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to discern 
the cube due to its Transparent trait. Otherwise, the first 
character to enter the room blunders into the cube and is 
subject to being engulfed. The cube then moves to attack 
with surprise. 




There is nothing of value in the room. Its furniture is rot- 
ted and crumbles when disturbed. 




There is a secret door at the end of the passage that leads 
north away from these quarters. It can be found with a 




successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. 




AREA 54 —- STORAGE ROOM 




This room is lined racks of wine bottles. Along the west wall 
are large casks and barrels. Several casks have been smashed 
open and their contents drained. Suddenly, from behind a 
stack of barrels, a huge bear-like creature with the head of a 
giant owl appears and staggers toward you. 




The creature is an owlbear. The monstrosity is ravenously 
hungry, so if the characters immediately toss it a large 
portion of meat, it ignores them and eats. The owlbear 
has sampled many of the bottles of wine over the past few 
hours and is now completely drunk. It has disadvantage 
on its attack rolls due to the intoxicating effects of the 
wine, but it fights to the death. This owlbear has learned 
how to crush its foes with a devasting hug; it gains the 
following action: 




Hug: If the owlbear hits with both its beak and claws 
attacks on the same Large or smaller target in the same 
turn, it can take a bonus action to embrace the target in a 
deadly hug, causing an additional 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeon- 
ing damage. 


The room once contained over 600 bottles of wine. Now, 
only about 400 remain, and they have not aged properly. 
The result is mostly poor-quality wine worth a total of 




100 gp. 




se 




AREA 55 — PARTY ROOM 




Nine men and women in bright costumes and fancy masks 
are drinking, talking, and dancing in this room. It appears 
to be an odd masked ball. Most of the people are dancing as 
if they had invisible partners. You hear snatches of conversa- 
tion, most of which make no sense. The people seem to be 
talking to themselves and are oblivious to your intrusion. 




These nine masked humans are Cynidicean commoners 
(see appendix C), in the throes of a drug-induced revel, 
under the effects of the elixir of fantasy (see chapter 3 for 
more details). The Cynidiceans are in their own dream 
world and assume that the characters are merely part of 
the dream. These Cynidiceans have no cares, and simply 
want to be left alone to pursue their hedonistic debauch- 
ery. The characters are certainly welcome to join in, and 
if they do so, they might be able to glean some valuable 
information about the Cynidiceans or the Lost City (see 
chapter 6)—but it might require a few successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Insight) checks to determine the lucid facts ver- 
sus the utter nonsense. The DM is encouraged to create 
a few cryptic passages of sample conversations in advance 
should the characters wish to partake in the festivities. 




There is no treasure here, although there are several, 
mostly empty, wine bottles and partially eaten foodstuffs 
discarded about the chamber. 




AREA 56 — LOBBY 




Ten humans wearing dark robes and masks of fearsome, im- 
aginary monsters sit in a circle in this room. They are staring 
straight ahead, but don’t seem to be looking at anything in 
particular. 




These humans are Cynidicean commoners (see appen- 
dix C), but they are not in their own dream world like 
those previously encountered. These particular Cynid- 
iceans are facing their worst conjured fears in nightmare 
worlds. They do react to the characters’ intrusion, and 
may even attack, but the Cynidiceans never speak, even 
if they are wounded. They occasionally scream at ran- 
dom from some unseen terror, but this screaming does 
not match reality. That is, they do not scream or react if 
touched or attacked. 




AREA 56A — CRASHING WALLS 




A hidden pressure plate in the center of the hall triggers 
a trap. The pressure plate can be located with a success- 
ful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. If located, it can 




be easily avoided. Once discovered, it takes a successful 




DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check to determine 
the trap’s function. If its function is understood, it can 
be disabled with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 
Dexterity check. If triggered, the walls just outside of area 
56 crash together and then crumble apart. The trap is au- 
tomatically triggered the first time more than 25 pounds 
of weight is placed on it. Up to two targets in this 10-foot 
section of the corridor each take 17 (5d6) bludgeoning 
damage; a successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw re- 
sults in half damage. Following being triggered, the floor 
in this 10-foot section of the corridor is now considered 
difficult terrain. 




This trap has two purposes. First, it alerts Darius in area 
58 that someone is coming. Second, it is a dangerous haz- 
ard to a party leaving area 56 in a hurry and everyone 
forgets it is here. 




AREA 57 —- GAMBLING ROOM 




A dozen brightly robed men and women masked as various 
animals are playing games of chance. Card games are being 
played at one table, and dice games at another. In the center 
of the room is a large wheel of fortune. Many silver and gold 
coins, gems, and pieces of jewelry are changing hands as they 
are engrossed with gambling. 




Because they are sharing a common dream, these Cynid- 
icean commoners (see appendix C) act more normally 
than those in rooms 55 and 56. They continue gambling 
and talking about games of chance unless physically dis- 
turbed or attacked. They may even invite the party to join 
in. If attacked, they will fight back. They assume that a 
gang of robbers has broken into the game room and is 
attempting to steal their money. Further, if the party tries 
to take the money without winning it, the cleric and his 
hobgoblin guards from area 58 enter through the secret 
door in the south wall and attack. 




The secret door in the south wall can be located with a 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Once a 
series of three knobs are located and all twisted counter- 
clockwise, the door slides open to the right. 




If the player characters want to join the games and gam- 
ble, the DM may use any simple system to work out the 
results. For example, the DM and the player might each 
roll 1d20 with the highest roll winning, and the player 
losing all ties. Wagers are set before the dice are rolled (a 
minimum of 50 gp and a maximum of 1,000 gp are sug- 
gested). The characters cannot win any more money than 
is currently in this room. If the characters begin winning 




ee rd AS a we RTA RT SET 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SST ANT SE PAE RE NTT EL ETS EE DT HIE TY 




large sums, the cleric from room 58 is likely to attack 
since he considers all the money in this room to belong 
to him. Asa priest of Zargon, he plans to take most of the 
money as “taxes” anyway. 




The gambling room contains 3,000 sp, 5,000 gp, 26 
various gems worth a total of 3,100 gp, and six pieces of 
jewelry worth 6,000 gp total. The jewelry includes three 
silver rings, an electrum necklace set with jet, a platinum 
anklet, and a pair of matching gold bracers. 




Developments. A character possessed by Demetrius im- 
mediately goes to the proper wall section and starts look- 
ing for the secret door. He senses his enemy is very close, 
and therefore has advantage on all checks to find the se- 
cret door. 




If Darius and his guards from area 58 attack in this cham- 
ber, the gambling Cynidiceans draw hidden daggers (+2 
to hit, 2 [1d4] piercing damage) and join the fray against 
the characters. 




AREA 58 — CLERIC’S CHAMBER 




DM Note: This is a particularly challenging encounter 
based on the number of combatants, especially if the 
fight spills into area 57, and the Cynidiceans there join 
in. Based on the characters’ health and resources remain- 
ing, you might want to consider removing a few hobgob- 
lins or some of the Cynidiceans to keep this a fair fight. 




This room contains the evil cleric Darius and his hobgob- 
lin guards. They constantly spy on the gambling hall via 
several peepholes, so they are ready for the party to enter. 
But it is more likely they come charging out of the room 
via the secret door as the party tries to take the treasure 
in room 57. 




Darius (see appendix C) wears chain mail and carries a 
greatflail. His forces stationed in this room include six 
hobgoblin guards and 12 Cynidicean commoners (see 
appendix C). Darius prefers to hang back and use his 
spells while his hobgoblins rush to engage the charac- 
ters. The Cynidiceans also hang back and form a protec- 
tive circle around their beloved leader, but they attack 
if Darius is in danger. Darius begins by casting bane on 
the party, and then follows up with si/ence on an obvious 
arcane spellcaster. He reserves one or more hold person 
spells for particularly strong fighter-types, and striking or 
inflict wounds should melee become inevitable. 




Except for Darius and the hobgoblins, there is nothing 
of interest in this room—just a few battered tables and 
chairs. 




Developments. Demetrius’s goal is to defeat his evil 
brother, so the possessed character moves at full speed to 
engage with the evil cleric. Consult area 45 for details on 
his tactics and any rewards the party are granted should 
they succeed. 




ik SRE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City ; 




eee ee eee 




x 0d 




CHAPTER FIVE 




The Lower Pyramid 




Lower Pyramid chambers were only outlined, so 


that the Dungeon Master can gain experience in set- 
ting up encounters. On Tier 6, the room titles suggested 
what type of details to add. On Tiers 7-9, all the rooms 
are cave-like chambers with paintings on the walls and 
ceilings. The paintings were described, but it was up to 
the DM to add more details if desired. Tier 10, Zargon’s 
lair, was described in detail. For the fifth edition con- 
version of this classic adventure, the Lower Pyramid has 
been fully detailed and described in a format similar as 




that presented for the Upper Pyramid. 




4 n the original version of the adventure module, the 




DM Note: The challenges presented in the Lower Pyra- 
mid are more dangerous than a group of Ist- and 2nd- 
level characters can likely handle. Tiers 6 and 7 are de- 
signed for 3rd-level characters while Tiers 8 and 9 are 
designed for 4th-level characters. Tier 10 (Zargon’s lair) 
is designed for Sth-level (or higher) characters. Even at 
5th level, it’s likely the characters can be overwhelmed by 
Zargon, unless they have the aid of one of the factions or 
several NPCs. The pre-generated characters described in 
appendix C can be used to round out the party or substi- 
tuted for fallen PCs. 




TIERS 6 AND 7 
(DUNGEON LEVEL 4) 




Tier 6 housed slave workers and their guards, many of 
which were put to death following the completion of these 
chambers. Tiers 7-9 were to be a series of chambers show- 
ing the journey of the spirit after death. Each room was to 
have a painting of another stage in the journey. The final 
tier, where Zargon now lives, was to have a painting of the 
Cynidicean paradise. That painting was never completed. 




The Cynidiceans do not usually venture into the lower 
tiers. These are the haunt of Zargon, the tentacled mon- 
ster the Cynidiceans worship, plus mindless beasts, con- 
structs, and undead. Intelligent monsters encountered 
here are loyal to Zargon or are seeking some gain by an 




ff See Me aka GRRE ae NS ee Na bay art earns ese 




aE aE: 




“oniGinaL ‘ADVENTURES REINCARMATED | e “THE Lost city 




affiliation. Cynidiceans found on these tiers will most 
likely be Zargon’s prey or cultists loyal to Zargon. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Lower Pyramid chambers were dug 
out after the main pyramid was constructed. The walls are 
rough-hewn, unless otherwise described, and although 
the floors are somewhat smooth, cracks and accumulated 
sand are common in locations. 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid. 
The air is still dry, with a very faint organic smell. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 
feet high, while room ceilings are 15 feet high. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and push 
inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can be 
burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the pyramid is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 30 minutes of exploration. At the DM’s 
discretion, wandering monster checks can be called for if 
the characters make a prolonged amount of loud noise, 
such as combat. There are several empty chambers in the 
Lower Pyramid. At the DM’s discretion, when entered for 
the first time, a wandering monster encounter check can 
be made. Roll 1d8 for the type of monster encountered or 
choose one from the table below. The DM should also ad- 
just the number of creatures encountered based on the size 
of the party, their average level, and their general health. 




2 TET TES ES, 




ESR a MR TE Cm FERRE IE SEG” 




WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 4 




ees 




D8 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


1 Cynidiceans Varies Varies. Appendix C See description 
v3 Giant spitting spider 1 450 Appendix B 


3-4 Cult members 7 Varies Appendix C See description 
5 Black pudding 1 1,100 MM, p. 241 See description 
6 Gray oozes 3 100 MM, p. 243 


7 Hobgoblins 8 100 MM, p. 186 See description 
8 Wight 1 700 MM, p. 300 See description 


BLACK PUDDING and often are acting out strange dreams when encoun- 




A black pudding roams the halls and empty chambers 
on Tier 6. See area 59 for details. Many of the stone doors 
have gaps wide enough for the pudding to enter, although 
it prefers to hunt in the long western and southern cor- 
ridors between areas 58 and 71. If the black pudding is 




defeated, or this result is rolled on Tier 7, reroll. 




CULT MEMBERS 




This group is a band of six Cynidicean cultists of Zargon 
led by a Cynidicean cult fanatic of Zargon (see appen- 
dix C for both). They are conducting a task for their dark 
master, perhaps transporting food to Zargon or searching 
for escaped sacrifices. Each cultist carries 1d6 sp and the 




cult fanatic has 2d6 gp. 
CYNIDICEANS 




The Cynidiceans (see appendix C) are degenerate humans 
that live underground in the Lost City. They have pale, 
pasty skin, with bone-white hair and oversized eyes. Cy- 
nidiceans typically wear masks and brightly colored robes 




tered (see the “DM’s Background” section in chapter 3 
for more information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, 
usable for all dungeon levels, are presented in appen- 
dix C. The DM may randomly determine one of these 
encounters or use them as a guide to design her own. 
Note that Cynidicean commoners don’t typically wander 
about the Lower Pyramid. If any are encountered here, 
they are probably loyal to the cult of Zargon or are es- 
caped prisoners ultimately destined for the slime pits of 
Zargon (area 100). 




GIANT SPITTING SPIDER 




A giant spitting spider (see appendix B) ambushes the 
party while perched on the ceiling, hoping the characters 
blunder into its web curtain first. The webs are consid- 
ered difficult terrain, and a creature entering them must 
succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or become 
restrained (escape DC 12). It prefers to hang back and 
use its poison spit attack. If reduced to half hit points or 
fewer, it scurries away. 




A ETT ERY CTT aE TEST one eTeS Sia ua apr cep 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City ‘I 




LES TT AN SELLS ALS ELLE ATI 




AT OSE TY 




nates BS PLES REL LIAL 




GRAY OOZES 




A variety of oozes and slimes are attracted to Zargon and 
its malevolent essence. This trio of gray oozes are at- 
tached to the ceiling of the passage or chamber the char- 
acters are traveling through. They begin the encounter 
utilizing their False Appearance trait to appear as a damp 
patch of rock. They attack with surprise, and mindlessly 
fight until defeated. 




HOBGOBLINS 




Bands of hobgoblins, loyal to Zargon and its cult, roam 
the passages of the Lower Pyramid often transporting 
prisoners or hunting down escaped prisoners. There is 
a 50% chance they are leading 2d4 Cynidicean com- 
moners (see appendix C) in leg irons to an unpleasant 
fate in area 93. One of the hobgoblins carries the key to 
the locks, although they can be picked with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. Alternatively, 
the chains can be burst with a successful DC 21 Strength 
check. Each hobgoblin carries 2d4 gp and one has a whip 
(+3 to hit, reach 10 ft., 3 [1d4 + 1] slashing damage) to 




discipline the slaves, if present. 




WIGHT 




A lone wight wanders the forsaken halls of this tier. Once 
a champion of Zargon, his petty arrogance lead to his dis- 
favor and eventual downfall. After his slaughter at the ten- 
tacles of his master, he is now cursed to march in undeath 
for all eternity. As such, he despises the living and attacks 
without abandon. Clad in slime-covered chain mail (AC 
16), he wields with two hands a black iron longsword with 
a ruby set in its pommel (500 gp). (He has no longbow.) 
If the characters defeat the wight, he can’t appear again as 
a wandering monster so reroll this encounter. 




KEY TO TIER.6 (MAP 6) 




AREA 58 — STORAGE ROOM 




This chamber is 40 feet by 40 feet. Not only is the room 
devoid of furnishings, but the floor is clean of all organic 
debris. Several odd piles of sand, each no more than a few 
inches high, are scattered about. In addition to the door used 
to enter this room, there is one more present. 




This empty room was once used to store tools for work- 
ers. The black pudding from area 59 often hunts here 
(passing through a gap in the door), hence the lack of any 




furniture or other objects. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




EB ION STAI $5 LODE A SONA I I et RRR MO ND SH NY I, 




AREA 59 - ABANDONED GUARDS’ 
QUARTERS 




The stone door to this room is ajar. Beyond is a rough-hewn 
rectangular chamber, about 50 feet by 40 feet. The flagstone 
floor is clean, and no furnishings are present to provide any 
hints at the previous purpose of this chamber. A mass of inky 
darkness writhes in the southeast corner. 




The black mound of pulsating sticky goo is a black pud- 
ding dissolving a hobgoblin it recently captured in the 
outer corridor. When the characters approach to within 
60 feet, it uses its blindsight to detect them, and quickly 
moves to attack anticipating another meal. The black 




pudding fights to the death. 
The corrosive form of the black pudding has dissolved 




all wood, metal, and bone material that once was in this 
room. Formerly, the room served as a barracks for the 
guards that oversaw the workers digging these passages. 




Development. If the black pudding is destroyed, it can’t 
appear as a wandering monster on this tier (reroll or se- 
lect another encounter). Likewise, if the black pudding is 
defeated elsewhere on this tier, it doesn’t occur here. 




AREA 60 - ABANDONED OVERSEER’S 
ROOM 




The door to this chamber is locked and the key was mis- 
placed decades ago. The door can be destroyed, or the 
lock picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 
Dexterity check. 




The door is trapped. If an attempt is made to force or de- 
stroy the door, or if a lock-picking attempt fails, the trap 
is triggered. The trap can be located with a successful DC 
20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Once located, it can be 
disarmed with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 18 Dex- 
terity check. If triggered, a stone block from the ceiling 
falls into the 5-foot square in front of the door. A creature 
in that square must make a successful DC 16 Dexterity 
saving throw or suffer 22 (4d10) bludgeoning damage 
and become restrained, pinned by the stone. A success- 
ful saving throw results in half damage and no restrained 
condition. The stone now blocks the door and requires a 
successful DC 25 Strength check to move, or it needs to 
be destroyed (AC 17, 25 hit points, resistance to piercing 
and slashing damage). Destroying the stone block neces- 
sitates a wandering monster check due to the noise. 




Once the door and trap are dealt with, the characters can 
enter the chamber: 




eee er ce ere 




sh TU 
f ik j 
1) YG) } 
We 




é AY \\" WN 
MEWS 
was MAP 6 Tier6 *, 
/THE LOWER PYRAMID 
(mBSRRA 
| || 4= 




| 58 | | | | TSS 
GREE SMG SEE 
al LL | 




488008 & 
4587 OE? RRR 
| | 




£ g AGE 
Che Pte ReP Rea Res 1 ee 
' | ann 




\\\ 
Nh . 




\ 
\ 




i \ 




= 


. : a 
a. BCS a~ ae 
Be a ee 
s a = 1. Sane 




= 


g ‘| 
EAA a 
x 


a | 


A | 


N 




Vy 




naa i ~~ € . S 
a 
—7/- WO COM (9 




Cross Section 
Leveli6: Room: 66 ‘ Door 




Level\7,,Room:79 ‘i \ Trapdoor 
TEN BM in Floor 




j “\ & eX\ Sy 




y y | N | oh fe af i iH ft \ Lt ih ) ap Vrs NY \ 
Ma ) DO Sips si 7 Ue AAs in TAL RW RON ‘ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




The chamber beyond has very rough, unfinished walls and is 
perhaps 60 feet by 40 feet in size. A collapsed wooden bed is 
located along the south wall, along with the broken remains 
of a table. Several piles of woody debris were likely chairs. 
Along the north wall are mounted several weapons, clad in a 




thick layer of dust and grime. 




This abandoned room was once the living quarters for an 
overseer, responsible for leading the troops tasked with 
maintaining discipline over the workers. The room has 
been sealed for decades and thus undisturbed. The fur- 
nishings are broken and useless. A careful search with a 
successful DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a 
metal skeleton key among the wreckage. This key unlocks 
the door to area 67. The weapons include a halberd (al- 
though the shaft is rotted and useless), a greatsword, a 
pair of crossed shortswords, and three flails with a variety 
of heads. The weapons (except for the halberd) are all 




normal and functional. 




Hidden under the wreckage of the of the bed is a secret 
compartment, built into the stone floor. It can be located 
with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
The compartment hatch is a 3-foot-square stone block, 
adorned with a recessed scarab beetle, about 4 inches in 
diameter. (See Handout #6 in appendix D.) The only 
way to open the compartment, short of a knock spell, is 
to place the corresponding stone scarab beetle into the re- 
cess and then turn it counterclockwise. The stone scarab 
beetle can be found in area 69. 




Inside the compartment is a metal box. The box is locked, 
and the key has been lost. The lock can be picked with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 22 Dexterity check. In- 
side the box is a pile of 2,000 sp. Mixed into the coins is a 
yellow sapphire, but it is flawed and thus worth only 500 
gp. Ihe bottom of the box has a secret compartment that 
can be located with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. Inside a velvet-lined cavity is a crystal statu- 
ette of a trio of playful canines, about 4 inches high. This 
is a figurine of wondrous power (trio of crystal blink dogs) 
(see appendix A). However, the command words to acti- 
vate these constructs are lost and require sagely research 
that would take a few weeks in a large metropolitan city. 




AREA 61 - ABANDONED SLAVE 
QUARTERS 




This expansive chamber is about 60 feet by 70 feet, with a 
ceiling stretching to a height of 20 feet. A total of four stone 
doors provide obvious exits from the room, and a carved 




gv 
g Ti SE ATE A RED I 




‘a * 




“Donen erent atamemassant eres Me RTS RN RR Ee 




a 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REiNCARMATED | e THE Lost city 




RSE as SSA TL TOT HS BS eR NE Sa A TEE RUT BS ETO, 




stone staircase occupies the northeastern corner of the room. 
A massive black scorpion, the size of an elephant, snaps its 
claws in anticipation and arches its tail over its back. A sick- 
ly drip of venom oozes from its tail stinger. 




This was once acommunal living area for dozens of slaves. 
Now, a giant scorpion makes its lair here, near the stone 
stairs. This mindless vermin attacks with reckless aban- 




don, and fights until destroyed. 




There is nothing of interest here. The stairs here lead up 
to area 48 on Tier 5. 




AREA 62 - AAANDONED GUARD 
CAPTAINS’ ROOM 




This empty chamber is about 40 feet wide from east to west 
and 50 feet wide from north to south. The ceiling has col- 
lapsed in several locations, leaving scattered piles of rocky 
debris throughout. 




The piles of rock are considered difficult terrain. Al- 
though the jagged ceiling looks unstable and prone to 
further collapse, it is quite safe. 




This room was once reserved for the guard captains that 
supervised the troops assigned to oversee the slaves and 
general workforce during the construction of these pas- 
sages. This room is empty, although the DM might want 
to check for wandering monsters the first time the char- 
acters explore this chamber. 




AREA 63 - ABANDONED GUARD 
CAPTAINS’ ROOM 




This chamber has very rough walls that appear to be unfinished. 
The chamber is about 40 feet in diameter. Centered along the 
south wall is a massive wooden chest with thick iron bands. 




This chamber belonged to two despicable guard captains. 
They performed numerous atrocities on the helpless 
slaves and workers forced to toil in the halls of the Lower 
Pyramid. Eventually, they were killed by their “loyal” 
guards while they slept. The guards were afraid to disturb 
their treasure hoard, and for good cause, as the captains 
eventually became wraiths. If any creatures disturb the 
chest, the wraiths attack. Their forms appear to be wear- 
ing armor and wielding longswords, but these have no 
game effects. 




The chest is unlocked but trapped with poison darts. The 
trap can be discovered with a successful DC 17 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. Following a successful DC 15 Intel- 
ligence (Investigation) check, an attempt to disarm the 




SA aE I TIS Se NESE HAT tHE 




ae 




SAAR ARNOT 




poison dart trap can be performed. This requires thieves’ 
tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Failure 
triggers the trap, which fires four darts in an arc in front 
of the chest. Each dart makes a separate ranged attack 
against a random target in the arc (+8 to hit, range 10 
ft., 2 [1d4] piercing damage plus poison; see below). A 
creature hit by a dart must succeed on a DC 14 Consti- 
tution saving throw or suffer 7 (2d6) poison damage and 
become poisoned for 1 hour; success indicates half dam- 
age and no poisoned condition. 




The chest contains 3,000 ep and 5,000 gp in sacks of 500 
each, plus eight pieces of jewelry worth 9,600 gp total. 
These include a pair of silver earrings (300 gp), a pair of 
plain gold bracers (500 gp), two plain gold rings (400 
gp and 750 gp) a sapphire-studded gold ring (1,800 gp), 
an electrum brooch set with onyx (600 gp), a platinum 
bracelet set with tiny rubies (1,500 gp), and a silver dia- 
dem set with banded agates (3,750 gp). 




AREA 64 - ABANDONED KITCHEN 




This tidy chamber is 50 feet by 40 feet. All the woody debris 
here, likely old ruined furniture, has been collected into a 
neat stack along the south wall. Several plush carpets and 
grimy yet comfortable pillows are strewn around a copper 
brazier holding glowing embers. A male and female human 
in loose-fitting silk robes sit cross-legged near the brazier. 




The humans begin the encounter as indifferent, but if the 
characters display a show of arms or flashy magic they can 
be cowered into friendly—but this is a deception. These 
two are neutral evil weretigers that have traveled from a 
distant jungle bordering the great desert. They represent 
a cadre of lycanthropes and tried to bribe Zargon with 
wealth hoping for an alliance. Zargon and its cultists have 
refused this monetary bribe, as only sacrifices of sentient 
beings can appease its hunger. The weretigers decide to at- 
tempt to capture the characters and offer them to Zargon 
in return for loyalty. Since they are likely outnumbered, 
they resign themselves to feigning friendship, seeking an 
opportunity to split up the party and overpower them 
in smaller groups. This deception can be revealed with a 




successful DC 16 Wisdom (Insight) check. 




Hidden under several throw carpets and pillows are four 
sacks that contain the bribe for Zargon. The sacks hold 
2,000 ep and three gems: a piece of petrified wood crudely 
shaped like a tiger (10 gp), a cat’s eye yellow topaz (500 
gp), and a cat’s eye green sapphire (1,000 gp). The brazier 
is worth 55 gp. 




a me Sl A a rE Ee RE A rr A A 




RS ES HY I RR a REPT LI fi TED 




original ADVENTURES REincaRnatED- e THE Lost city 




- Pe eras 
——aee os s 
ra v4 th 
Z 
* 
2 = Bs 
- ay Prre 
aw 




=. eee 




AREA 65 —- OLD FOOD STOREROOM 




This room measures 80 feet east to west and about 40 feet 
north to south, yet oblong in shape. Numerous ancient crates 
were once stacked neatly here, but now, most are toppled 
over, smashed to debris, or simply rotten and crumbled from 
time. Many of them sport gnashing teeth marks from count- 
less rodents and vermin. 




Once an old storeroom, all the crates are empty, the con- 
tents long since consumed by vermin over the years. Be- 
sides the woody debris, there is nothing of value here, 
although the DM may want to roll for a chance at a wan- 
dering monster. 




AREA 66 —- OLD TOOL STOREROOM 




This 50-foot-by-50-foot room has doors centered on the 
north and south walls. The east and west walls are truncated 
toward the northern door. The chamber is empty save for 
piles of wood scraps along the east and west walls. 




‘This area was once used to store tools used to excavate 
and finish the passages of the Lower Pyramid. The cult of 
Zargon has created two wood golems (see appendix B) 
and placed them in this chamber to guard the concealed 
trapdoor that leads deeper under the pyramid. When one 
or more creatures enter the chamber proper, each wood 




golem extracts itself from the piles of wood. Each appears 
to be a 3-foot-tall humanoid composed of odd pieces of 
planks and tool handles, and a pair of magically glow- 
ing eyes. Although they move awkwardly with a stiff 
gait, they move into position between the characters and 
the trapdoor. As soon as the floor is searched, they at- 
tack, unless the characters openly display a holy symbol 
of Zargon. If this occurs, the wood golems stand down. 
If combat occurs here, the constructs continue to attack 
until defeated. 




There is trapdoor in the center of the room that can be 
located with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The trapdoor conceals a ladder that leads down to 
area 79-on' Tier 7. 




AREA 67 - ABANDONED GUARDS’ 




QUARTERS 




The door to this room is locked. They key can be found 
in area 60. Otherwise, it requires thieves’ tools and a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Dexterity check to open, or good old-fash- 




ioned weapon blows. When opened, continue: 




The door opens to reveal a roughly triangular chamber about 
50 feet wide and 40 feet deep. The air is dry and stale here, 
and a thick layer of dust covers the uneven floor. There do not 
appear to be any exits. 




This room is empty. 




Development. Since this room has remained sealed for 
decades, it would make an ideal location for the characters 
to rest and recuperate. At the DM's discretion, they could 
complete a long rest here without being interrupted. 




AREA 68 - ABANDONED MESS HALL 
this 40-foot-by-40-foot hall is abandoned. Along the east 




wall is an outcropping of strange green stone that extends 
about 5 feet into the room. The shattered remains of several 
wooden tables and sturdy benches dot the floor. 




The wooden tables and benches are ruined and worth- 
less, unless the characters need a suitable source of dried 
firewood. The strange green stone outcropping on the 
east wall is just a different type of common mineral that 
is much harder and denser than the native stone. It was 
easier to leave than remove with hand tools, so the work- 
ers did just that. There is nothing else of value here. 




AREA 69 - ABANDONED SLAVE 
BARRACKS 




DM Note: Sitting to the right of the door to this cham- 
ber is a small locked metal box. The Zargon cultists have 
the keys to this box, although the lock can be picked with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 18 Dexterity check. 
Inside the box are a dozen strips of heavy black cloth 
measuring about 3 feet long by 4 inches wide. These are 
blindfolds, used by the cultists when they need to interact 
with the inhabitants of the room beyond. 




When the characters enter the room, continue: 




Upon opening the door, you are greeted by the soft glow of 
warm light coming from the far side of the rough-hewn 
chamber. The light comes from a pair of battered bronze 
braziers in the northeast and southeast corners of the room. 
Along the east wall are several changing screens depicting 
geometric shapes. However, the cloth of the screens is dirty 
and torn in several locations. Several robes and dresses are 
draped over the screens. 




A collection of pillows is situated in the middle of the room. 
Two lithe figures adorned in cloaks with drawn hoods quietly 
chant and hum, while gently swaying to and fro. 




The two robed figures are medusa sisters, named Sardoz 
and Zodras. The sisters traveled a great distance from 
the Underdark to pledge their worship to Zargon and 
its unholy cadre of cultists. But their supernatural pow- 
er to turn mortal creatures to stone is frowned upon by 
Zargon, as it prefers live victims to quench its insatiable 
hunger. Still, the cult sees a grant advantage in having 
such powerful allies. The cult has relocated them here and 
made them comfortable. Any stony victims (accidental or 
not) are moved to area 70. 




The sisters are feigning a trance but are well aware crea- 
tures have entered their lair. With surprising speed, they 
throw back their hoods and attempt to petrify all inter- 
lopers. When the cultists come here for business, they 
don blindfolds. If the characters have blindfolds on, they 
are unaffected by each medusa’s Petrifying Gaze and the 
medusas attitude shifts to indifferent as the PCs are as- 
sumed to be cultists. If they are not blindfolded, or the 
characters don’t play the part of cultists, the medusas turn 
hostile and attack. If one sister is defeated, the other sur- 
renders and begs for mercy. She is willing to trade infor- 
mation or some of their treasure for her life. 




Behind the changing screens are several gowns and dress- 
es, all once fancy but now sporting stains or rips. Hidden 
among the clothes is a pouch that can be located with a 
successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check. It holds 
11 pearls, each worth 100 gp. Behind the brazier in the 
northeast corner of the room is a wooden chest with a 
broken lid. The lid is held down with a frayed rope (actu- 
ally a rope of climbing, revealed with a detect magic spell or 
close examination with a successful DC 14 Intelligence 
[Investigation] check). Inside the chest is a potion of hero- 
ism, a potion of animal friendship, a \oose spell scroll (in- 
scribed with a phantasmal force spell), and a plain copper 
ring. The ring is a cursed ring of weakness (see appendix 
A). Finally, a 4-inch-diameter stone scarab beetle can be 
located in the chest. This is the key to unlock the com- 
partment in area 60. 




AREA 70 - ABANDONED CLERIC’S 
QUARTERS 




This oblong, hewn chamber is about 40 feet wide east to 
west and 50 feet long north to south. The door is situated 
in the southwest corner of the room. Several stone statues of 
humanoids are randomly placed throughout the room. The 
statues all bear horrific expressions on their faces, and many 
feature splayed arms in a vain attempt to shield their eyes. 




This room once served as the chamber for a cleric of Gorm. 
Now, the cultists use it to store petrified victims, turned to 
stone by the medusa sisters in area 69. Thereare 17 statues 
here. Most (11) were Cynidiceans, but there are also three 
orcs, a tall human fighter-type (complete with plate armor 
and swinging a greatsword), a dwarf, and a gnoll. 




AREA 71 - ABANDONED CLERIC’S 
QUARTERS 




This chamber appears to be unfinished. Although apparently 
designed to be 40 feet square, the northwestern wall is angled 
away from the door, truncating the north wall to about 20 
feet wide. The east wall is a pile of rubble, perhaps a col- 
lapsed tunnel or passage. Writhing in the center of the room 
is a massive slimy worm-like snake. It has folds of gray skin 
but lacks eyes. It does have a gaping circular mouth and 
seems to be alerted to your presence. 




The worm is a caecilia worm (see appendix B) that re- 
cently burrowed its way to this chamber. The unstable 
passage collapsed, trapping it here. Until it decides to 
burrow out, it has been trapped and is now hungry. The 
worm attempts to swallow a target, before seeking escape 
via burrowing away. If reduced to 20 hit points or fewer 
it also attempts to flee via burrowing. 




This chamber was a temporary lair for a cleric devoted 
to Madarua. There are no remaining furnishings from its 
previous purpose. Despite the unfinished northwest sec- 
tion, the odd shape of the room was by design, as area 
70 occupies the location on the opposite side of the wall. 




AREA 72 - ABANDONED CLERIC’S 
QUARTERS 
The door opens to reveal a 40-foot-by-40-foot chamber. A 




formerly plush—now rotting—carpet covers the stone floor 
in tatters, and fine wooden bookcases were once inset into 
the east, west, and south walls. These have since rotted and 




collapsed in piles on the floor. 




A pair of hulking bull-headed humanoids are busy taking 
out their frustrations on a divan with very large axes. They 
pause at your arrival, issue a phlegmy snort, and charge! 




The humanoids are a pair of minotaur mercenaries 
working for the Zargonites. They are the enforcers, will- 
ing to introduce those to the business ends of their axes. 
‘They attack without provocation and fight until defeated. 
They even pursue fleeing characters throughout this level 
to satisfy their lust for bloodletting. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ARPES 




Each minotaur carries two gems. One carries a pale blue 
zircon (50 gp) and a black opal (1,500 gp), and the other 
carries a yellow citrine (50 gp) and a rough piece of jade 
(100 gp). 




KEY TO TIER7 (MAP 7) 




AREA 73 —- EMBALMING ROOM 
This dry, dusty chamber is about 50 feet by 50 feet. Three 




low stone tables occupy the chamber, undisturbed for many 
years. The west and north walls are covered with paintings. 




This room was used to prepare bodies for mummifica- 
tion. The paintings show the various stages of preparing 
a body for burial. The process starts in the southwest cor- 
ner of the room, and the process continues through all 
stages until the end at the northeast corner. ‘The detail of 
these are almost as if they comprise a pictorial guide for 
how to embalm a body for mummification. 




AREA 74 - VIEWING ROOM 




This chamber is 60 feet north to south and 50 feet west to 
east. Along the west wall are two plain stone sarco phagi. Ar- 
ranged in the center of the floor are three rows of dusty stone 
benches, situated parallel to each other. 




Following the embalming process, a body was moved to 
this chamber so loved ones could pay respects and say 
their final good-byes. A painting on the west wall depicts 
Cynidiceans lining the benches in mourning. 




‘The sarcophagi are sealed, and it requires a successful DC 
15 Strength check to break the seal and remove a lid. 
Another character can use the Help action to assist with 
this task. Inside each is a mummy, desperate to get out. 
When they sense living creatures, they double their ef- 
forts. If left alone, one mummy bursts free in 2d4 rounds. 
As soon as one is free (from the characters or its own 
accord) the other bursts free, likely with surprise, the fol- 
lowing round. The mummies seek to destroy the living 
and pursue characters throughout this level if needed, to 




finish the deed. 




Scattered in the bottom of one of the sarcophagi are 5,000 
gp. The other mummy is wearing four pieces of matching 




jewelry. These include a gold ring set with malachite (550 
gp), a plain gold bracer (150 gp), a gold necklace set with 
malachite (800 gp), and a plain gold circlet (1,700 gp). 




AREA 75 — SHRINE 




This chamber was once a shrine or temple. The hall is 60 
feet wide from east to west, and 50 feet long from north to 
south. Centered along the west wall is a plain stone altar. 
The rotting remains of wooden pews, once arranged in rows 
but now piles of woody debris, occupy the floor. A body is 
sprawled over an altar, currently being nuzzled by a 5-foot- 
long, slinky, brown-furred rodent. 




The brown-furred creature consuming the body is a gi- 
ant weasel. There is another giant weasel hiding behind 
the altar and is concealed in a pile of wood. If disturbed 
the giant weasels attack. The one in the wood pile waits 
for 1 round and then bursts out with surprise. The giant 




weasels fight to the death. 




The body is long dead, wearing torn leather armor. A 
discarded shortsword lies nearby behind the altar. This 
human tomb raider died behind the altar after triggering 
a poison needle trap on a secret compartment. A success- 
ful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals the 
tell-tale signs of a pricked finger, along with the discol- 
oration of poison. The compartment door is slightly ajar, 
but examination reveals the compartment is empty. The 
body has a full pouch, holding 77 gp, and underneath are 
two spell scrolls (pulled out of the compartment before the 
poison set in). One is inscribed with a web spell, and the 
other has dispel magic written on it. 




This temple was used to hold holy services honoring 
those who have died. A painting on the west wall depicts 
a funeral service, although the paint is flecking and the 
details are difficult to discern. 




AREA 76 — EMPTY ROOM 




The door opens to reveal an empty room, perhaps 40 feet on a 
side. The west, north, and east walls are covered with colorful 
paintings. 


The purpose of this room has been long forgotten, and 
there is nothing of value here. The wall paintings depict a 
funeral procession through the streets of a dimly lit city. 
‘The procession starts along the west wall and continues 
in a clockwise direction until the southeast corner of the 
room. 




Development. At the DM’s discretion, she can check for 
wandering monsters the first time the characters explore 
this area. 




e THE Lost City 




RSP eS tp HO Te 




CG om 




MWY Lif) WN) es y 
hone aes Lee 




5) | oe 
Dol [sl | AN Zz 
/ im Ce 




Te 
Re 




et ee 
guiaen - Bes te 
Bt 2 




Y 


Yj 
yy 


yy 




Hole in Floor 
and Ceiling - 




SSS 




~~ SSSSSS SSG 




- 




Level'7; Room}79 “ 




TIMRERRRROREIBL 




Level 8=Room 90 ; 




nae po HA ai li * [ea oa ao ait 




LRT SENT ES ETT SI OE OI 




AREA 77 — ABANDONED WORKSHOP 
DM Note: The door to this chamber is locked. The cult- 




ists of Zargon are responsible for the feeding and care of 
the beasts kept here, so they have the key. Otherwise, the 
lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful 




DC 17 Dexterity check. 




This 40-foot-by-30-foot room is cluttered with several stone 
worktables and discarded wooden planks and tools. Most of 
the tools are ruined or in disrepair. Among the wreckage are 
a pair of sleek blue-black felines that eye you with a ma- 
levolent gaze. Oddly, these cat-like beasts have three pairs 
of powerful legs, and a pair of tentacles sprouting from their 
shoulders. The tentacles end in barbed pads. 




This room was once a workshop used for crafting wooden 
coffins and stone sarcophagi. The worktables were used 
with a variety of tools to shape the wood and adorn it 
with decorations befitting the deceased. The painting is 
limited to the south wall and depicts numerous crafts- 
men toiling to create various types of coffins, caskets, and 




sarcophagi. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIN 




EOE EES IO NIN 




ARIIATED e THE LOST city 




The agitated felines are two displacer beasts, Zargon’s be- 
loved pets. The cultists despise these beasts, as they have 
preyed on several loyal subjects. But nonetheless, they are 
forced to care for them. Their definition of care equates 
to nothing short of abuse and underfeeding. When the 
door is opened, the beasts size up the characters for 1 
round and then leap to attack. If one is defeated, the oth- 
er seeks to escape out the door, and becomes a wandering 
encounter. 




The displacer beasts have a few playthings: four valuable 
gems. It requires several minutes of searching to locate 
each gem, which requires a successful DC 13 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. The gems include a red carnelian (50 
gp), a piece of blue jasper (50 gp), a small violet garnet 
(100 gp), and a pale blue spinel (500 gp). 




AREA 78 — TROLL LAIR 




On opening the door to this chamber, your nostrils are as- 
saulted by the stench of rotting organic debris and offal. It 
is difficult to discern the true size of the room due to the 
unevenness of the walls, but youd guess about 50 feet in di- 
ameter. Two gangly, green-skinned humanoids with 
sharp features and unkempt black hair in topknots 
are hunched over a haunch of bloody meat. Their 
wart-encrusted rubbery hides are covered with fray- 
ing loincloths, but the humanoids are not armed. 




The humanoids are two troll mercenaries hired 
by the cultists to patrol the halls of the Lower 
Pyramid. This is a task the trolls find boring, and 
thus ignore, preferring to lazily lounge about. 
When the characters arrive, the trolls are hostile 
and immediately attack. If one is defeated, the 
other surrenders, begging for mercy. He offers 
his treasure in return for his life. He is actually 
just biding his time while his fellow regenerates, 
and he resumes the attack when the other is ca- 
pable. Of course, if the characters use fire the 
surrender is genuine. In this case, during the bar- 
gaining session, the remaining troll tries to only 
part with half his coins. 




Paintings on the west and east walls depict the 
building of tombs for the royalty and gravesites 
for the workers. There is no furniture in the 
room, save for two nasty-smelling sleeping piles 
of rotting cloth, burlap, and straw. 




ST ALE LUI TR EEE TELE SES IESE EOE LEE 




Along the south wall are 12 rotting leather sacks, full of 
coins. The 6,000 gp found in these sacks represent the 
payment the trolls have received for very little work. 




Developments. This is a potentially difficult encounter 
for the characters, especially if they don’t employ fire. Al- 
low the characters to attempt a few DC 14 Intelligence 
(Nature) checks to discern the type of creature they face 
and another check to determine their weakness is fire. If 
they are still in trouble, have a band of six Cynidicean 
cultists of Zargon led by a Cynidicean cult fanatic of 
Zargon (see appendix C for both) burst into the room 
wielding torches. Disappointed in the trolls’ effort, con- 
sidering their lucrative pay, the Zargonites decide to end 
the bargain with the lazy trolls with the characters’ aid. 
Assuming some cultists survive, they insist on recovering 
the majority of the treasure, but might try to ally them- 
selves with the characters if they don’t display any alle- 
giance to the other factions. 




AREA 79 — HELLISH KENNEL 




This octagonal chamber measures about 60 feet by 60 feet. 
All the walls are covered with detailed colorful paintings. 
A 10-foot-diameter hole in the floor is centered beneath a 
similar hole in the ceiling. A sturdy metal ladder provides 
access to each level. In the middle of the room is a pile of 
copper coins. Sitting near the pile are two hefty mastiffs with 
black fur and piercing, glowing embers for eyes. Each hound 




is carefully watching you, panting, with a sinister smile. 




This chamber provides access to an upper and lower 
tier and is guarded by two hell hounds. These fiendish 
hounds don’t immediately attack, and if the characters 
initiate combat, they can gain surprise. The hounds are 
instructed to wait for a few moments to see if the inter- 
lopers toss a copper coin on the pile. This action signifies 
the characters are allowed to use the ladder to access the 
lower level (Tier 8). If they don’t toss copper coins on the 
pile, the hell hounds become agitated and begin to pace, 
getting their hackles up. After a few rounds of this—a 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check can reveal 
the impending aggression—or if anyone attempts to use 
the ladder, the hell hounds attack. Both breathe fire with 
their first action, and then move in for bite attacks while 
their breath weapon recharges. The hell hounds fight to 
the death. 




The paintings are inscribed on all eight walls and depict 
various scenes of natural death. The room contains a huge 




open pit, about 10 feet in diameter, with a ladder going 
up to area 66 on Tier 6, and down to area 90 on Tier 8. 




The pile contains 9,000 cp. Buried in the coins are a drag- 
on slayer longsword and a metal wand of trap detection (see 




appendix A). 
AREA 80 —- EBONY CHAMBER 




Both doors leading to this chamber are locked from the 
outside. The Zargonites have the keys, or the lock can be 
picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 15 Dexter- 
ity check. 




The walls, floor, and ceiling of this chamber are all painted 
pitch black. Through the inky darkness you can make out the 




forms of two burly humanoids. They seem relieved to see you. 




The two humans are merchants from a distant land. 
‘They were seeking a trade route through the desert a few 
months ago, when their caravan was destroyed during a 
sandstorm. They arrived at the pyramid and were soon 
captured. They tried bargaining with the cultists to no 
avail. When they were offered to Zargon as a sacrifice, it 
refused to consume them due to their cursed state (see 
below). The cult is at a loss of what to do with them, 
although they might soon be petrified by the medusa sis- 
ters (see area 69). 




The merchants, Akhem and Ahmid, begin the encoun- 
ter friendly. They seek to escape and are willing to aid 
the characters. They are also very interested in turning a 
profit, even after their imprisonment. So, they might be 
willing to adventure with the characters for a bit assum- 
ing they could get a share of the treasure. They delight in 
the process of bargaining, and the more complicated the 
better. Both merchants are actually werebears, but they 
keep this secret, as most folk distrust shapechangers. 




The secret door in the east wall is difficult to locate. It 
requires a successful DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check 
to locate. Once a concealed button is pushed, the door 
slides to the left. 




AREA 81 — CHAMBER OF REFLECTION 




This room is about 50 feet by 40 feet and appears to be emp- 
ty. The north and south walls are covered with paintings. 




This chamber is indeed empty. It once was used as a place 
of reflection and meditation. The paintings on the walls 
depict an individual pondering and reflecting on his life, 
while choosing a gravesite. 




AAA 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City x 




DM ISASE 




AREA 82 — CHAMBER OF RENEWAL 




This hidden chamber is about 30 feet on a side. The walls 
are painted black, although it flecks in places. ‘The east wall 
depicts a painting of a rising sun. A dusty chest is pushed up 
against the north wall. 




The cultists of Zargon are unaware of this room, as are any 
denizens on this level. Therefore, if the characters take a 
long rest here, there is no worry of wandering monsters, 
assuming they seal the secret door and don’t leave obvi- 
ous signs of their passage. The room has a soothing effect. 
If the characters take a short rest here, spellcasters can 
regain one spell slot of level 2 or lower. If they take a long 
rest here, they regain all used Hit Dice for the purposes 
of regaining hit points. 




The chest is unlocked and contains 4,000 ep. 




TIERS 8 AND 9 
(DUNGEON LEVEL 5) 




Tiers 8 and 9 were originally designed as lower burial 
chambers for royalty and their retainers. Now the cult of 
Zargon maintains these chambers for Zargon’s pets (such 
as the hydra and the chimera) and its powerful loyal al- 
lies (such as the vampire and the devil swine). These very 
chambers are tainted with the filth of Zargon due to 
the proximity of its slime pit lair (area 100). Monstrous 
slimes and oozes are common throughout these tiers. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Lower Pyramid chambers were dug 
out after the main pyramid was constructed. The walls are 
rough-hewn, unless otherwise described, and although 
the floors are somewhat smooth, cracks and accumulated 
sand are common. 




WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 5 




D8 Encounter # App XP 
1 Green slime 1 NA 
2 Necrotic ooze 1 450 
3-4 Cult members 9 Varies 
5 Black pudding 1 1,100 
6 Gray oozes %, 100 
7 Ochre jellies 2 450 
8 Stun jelly 1 700 




ROL 




ZR NRE PALATE LL LE ELIS 




A LDL NA SEAMS TS 




oricinaL ADVENTURES REIMCARTATED — e ee LOST, city 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid. 
The air here is somewhat moist, and surfaces are covered 
with harmless mold and slime growths. A character tak- 
ing the Run action must make a successful DC 13 Dex- 
terity saving throw or fall prone, ending their movement. 
These halls have a strong organic stench. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 
feet high, while room ceilings are 15 feet high. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and push 
inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can be 
burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the pyramid is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. A variety of oozes and slimes are 
attracted to Zargon and its malevolent essence. These 
slimes and oozes are common in these chambers and 
hallways. Wandering monsters are encountered on a roll 
of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering monsters once every 
30 minutes of exploration. At the DM’s discretion, wan- 
dering monster checks can be called for if the characters 
make a prolonged amount of loud noise, such as combat. 
There are several empty chambers in the Lower Pyramid. 
Atthe DM’s discretion, when entered for the first time, 
a wandering monster encounter check can be made. Roll 
1d8 for the type of monster encountered or choose one 
from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health. 




Source Notes 
DMG, p. 105 
Appendix B 
Appendix C 
MM, p. 241 
MM, p. 243 
MM, p. 243 




Appendix B 




See description 




See description 




A DDS GUST a I ATO EBON ap ENTS 




Or 




sas nvr ce mT RR eet 




ne 




cate, 




eee 




eens 




Eero 




RSE amt NE eS RM 




BLACK PUDDING 
A black pudding roams the halls and empty chambers of 




these tiers. However, only one black pudding is present, so 
once it is defeated roll again on this table ifa result calls for 
a black pudding encounter. 




CULT MEMBERS 




This group is a band of eight Cynidicean cultists of 
Zargon led by a Cynidicean cult fanatic of Zargon (see 
appendix C for both). They are conducting a task for 
their dark master, perhaps transporting food to Zargon or 
searching for escaped sacrifices. Each cultist carries 1d6 sp 




and the cult fanatic has 2d6 gp. 




GRAY OOZES 




This trio of gray oozes are attached to the ceiling of the 
passage or chamber the characters are traveling through. 
They begin the encounter utilizing their False Appearance 
trait to appear as a damp patch of rock. They attack with 
surprise, and mindlessly fight until defeated. 




GREEN SLIME 




A patch of green slime (see “Dungeon Hazards” on p. 105 
of the Dungeon Masters Guide) hangs on the ceiling and 
drops onto a random character. If discovered with a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, the target can 
avoid it by succeeding on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. 
A target takes 5 (1d10) acid damage at the start of each of 
its turns until the green slime is scraped off or destroyed 
(by sunlight, an effect that cures disease, or by cold, fire, or 
radiant damage). 




NECROTIC OOZE 




A necrotic ooze (see appendix B) is created when an ooze 
engulfs an undead creature and becomes infused with ne- 
crotic energy. This ooze uses its False Appearance trait to 
appear as a wet spot on the ceiling or wall, and attacks with 
surprise. 




OCHRE JELLIES 




While traveling down a corridor or exploring an empty 
room, the characters encounter an ochre jelly. It doesn’t 
bother to conceal itself and moves to attack. The characters 
are likely not aware of the second ochre jelly nearby, which 
attacks with surprise from the rear or by dropping from 
the ceiling. 




RMT SEER EEA TEIN TOE FS ARTES TI 




i Ibe en 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED — e THE Lost City 




LET TOT ST Be LE TS TR NT ER 




STUN JELLY 




A stun jelly (see appendix B) clings to a wall, using its 
False Appearance trait to appear as a simple wet spot. It 
attacks a random character as the party passes by. There are 
several bones suspended in the oozy mass. One is a partial 
arm and hand, on which a silver ring set with a single blue 




topaz (250 gp) is stilled wrapped around a finger bone. 
KEY TO TIER'8 (MAP 8) 




AREA 83 — ILLUSORY CHASM 




This chamber is 50 feet north to south and 30 feet east to west. 
The west wall is covered with a fanciful painting. Both doors 
leading into this area are located on the east wall. Separat- 
ing the doors is a 20-foot-wide opening that leads to a gaping 
chasm. A simple three-rope bridge—one rope for walking and 
two for holding onto—spans the chasm, which appears to be 
about 30 feet wide with a landing on the far side. The ropes 




are thick and sunk into the walls via large metal rings. 




This chamber was used to test the faith of those who would 
be honored with burial in the pyramid. The painting on 
the west wall depicts a narrow bridge over an abyss*. 




The chasm is a permanent illusion. If examined, there does 
not appear to be a bottom, and dropping an object (such 
as a coin) does not create the telltale sound of hitting bot- 
tom. The rope bridge is very real and is sturdy enough to 
support 300 pounds of weight—and, in reality, is only 5 
feet off the ground. Crossing the bridge is tricky, requiring 
three successful DC 15 Dexterity checks. Failure indicates 
a fall and forces the character to make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw. A success here reveals the illusion, but a 
failure indicates the victim believes they truly fell to their 
death; they enter a catatonic state (treat as incapacitated) 
for 10 minutes before returning to normal. 




AREA 84 - OFFERING ROOM 


This irregular, 40-foot-by-50-foot chamber is occupied by a 
large wooden chest with stout iron bands. The chest is nearly 
10 feet long and 5 feet wide and high. The west wall is covered 
with paintings. 


Before the journey to the afterlife, the family of the de- 
ceased would place valuable goods in the chest here, for 
use in the underworld. Many of these goods were collected 
by the clergy and repurposed in the living world, unbe- 
knownst to the donators. The painting depicts a group of 
spirits crossing an underground river in a ferryboat laden 
with material wealth. 




fr 




SS as TEE SG eR Catt i Se LN Se RMN ys 




ra 




%, 
se aR OE a . 




117 




Ki 
jg ™ 




Y 




WY (yp Vb, jp, Wl iit 
Vv Zl U4 y jr 
4/0 THE LOW 


by Wij ALYY Yy 




Uj, 




Zi Z oo Ladder 


Ye Slide }))))) Stairs 


ty = @@ 
UY &< Hole in Ceiling } 4° 
Z, Lj G — Rope Bridge if y 




Lava Pit 
The Lost City 




= A 




| o bs YZ Gy, 
“4 ss a : 


44 ® - == Z 
g ‘ : J 


g ), Gooey 


} Side View ; ANG / 


y : : : . Yl Yyp 


V. 4 


Uj 




y,,A~ | 
PP 




a) yup ddibbe 




Wy yy 




hed 




Y Yj Wy Yy yyy Y 
YY Yj Uy 4 Yy Uj YY iif, Uf 
V ie YY Wiyj Wy fy Myf: 




LLL TEE NOEL STALE SOE DIT: 




ce 




The chest is locked, and they key is nowhere to be found. 
The lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a success- 
ful DC 20 Dexterity check. The chest is trapped with a 
ayph of warding (cast using a 4th-level slot) that triggers 
when the chest opens. The glyph is nearly invisible and can 
only be discovered with a successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. The glyph can be deactivated with 
a dispel magic spell (DC 14), but it can’t be disabled any 
other way. If triggered, it casts conjure monstrosity (see ap- 
pendix A) to summon a basilisk. The basilisk appears to 
issue forth from the chest, and likely surprises one or more 
targets with its gaze attack. The conjured basilisk stays in 
this room for 1 hour, unless destroyed. 




Inside the chest are 4,000 gp and 2,000 pp in a loose pile. 




AREA 85 — BOAT ROOM 




This oblong room is about 50 feet by 30 feet, with the ceiling 
about 30 feet overhead. The room is dominated by the bulk 
of a sailing ship, a full 30 feet long. It appears to be composed 
of ancient wooden planks lashed together with ropes. A single 
tattered sail is attached to a center mast, and 10 pairs of long 
wooden oars reach over the gunnels. The southern and eastern 
walls are covered with paintings. 




The ship is real, painstakingly dismantled by slaves and 
workers, transported here and then reassembled. The 
wooden planks are rotted in places and many of the ropes 
holding planks together need replacing. But overall, con- 
sidering the age of the ship, the condition is fair, except for 
the tattered sail. The painting depicts a similar ferryboat 
and its ferryman, who wears a black hooded cloak that 
conceals his features. 




There is nothing else of value in the ship or in the chamber. 




AREA 86 - MANY-HEADED GUARDIAN 




This roughly 50-foot-diameter chamber has a strong animal 
stench. The massive bulk of a draconic creature with five sin- 
ewy snake-like heads grabs your attention. It issues a guttural 
howl! followed by a series of hisses. At first you wonder why the 
agitated monstrosity doesnt attack, but then you notice that 
each of its four trunk-like legs is attached to a thick iron band. 
The band is attached to a thick chain, only a few links long, 
which is secured to a metallic plate affixed to the floor. ‘The 
creature has very limited mobility, although its necks provide 
a degree of reach to those in the chamber. ‘The north and east 
walls are covered with paintings. 




This was another processional chamber, designed for the 
common folk to observe the pre-burial rites and pay re- 
spects. The painting depicts a group of spirits walking 
across a narrow bridge over an abyss. This chamber has 
been repurposed by the Zargonites as a guardroom, and 
now contains a bound hydra. The hill giants in area 88 are 
tasked with caring for this beast. 




The hydra is securely bound to the center of the room 
but with the 10-foot reach of its necks it effectively can 
attack targets in a 30-foot diameter from the center point 
of the chamber. Thus, it can just about reach anyone in 
the chamber, save those in the northeast corner or along 
the south wall. The hydra is foul-tempered from years of 
imprisonment and abuse, and attacks if it can. There are 
no keyholes for the leg bindings, but the hydra can burst 
one with a successful DC 22 Strength check. If the hy- 
dra gets free of one binding, subsequent Strength checks 
are made with advantage. Once the hydra succeeds on a 
second Strength check, the hydra completely breaks the 
remaining bindings with a single action. The hydra fights 
to the death. 




In the northeast corner of the room is a pile of treasure. 
The pile contains 4,000 cp, 3,000 gp, and four pieces of 
jewelry: a gold chain set with a triangular piece of jade 
(400 gp), a red dragon-hide gauntlet set with 10 tiny ru- 
bies (2,500 gp), a platinum hand mirror (700 gp), and a 
gold snuff box set with obsidian (200 gp). 




AREA 87 — ROOM OF CLEANSING 
This chamber is bathed in a soft glow and feels warmer than 




the surrounding chambers. In the center of the room is a stone 
staircase descending to the depths below. The illumination 
comes from a 5-foot-wide circular pit in the southeast cor- 
ner of the room. The southern wall is covered with a detailed 
painting. 


The stone stairs lead to Tier 9 (area 96). In addition to this 
chamber providing access to the lower level, the magical 
fire in the pit was used to cleanse objects (and sometimes 
bodies) prior to burial. The painting depicts a woman in 
white robes kneeling next to a pool of fire with greedy 
flame-like tendrils. 




The circular pit is 20 feet deep and has smooth walls and 
a flat bottom. Climbing down the walls of the pit requires 
a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. Although 
there is no fuel, nor are the walls scorched, the pit contains 
a magical eternal flame from a weak connection once estab- 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




lished to the Elemental Plane of Fire via powerful magic. A 
creature in the pit takes 7 (2dG) fire damage per turn. The 
flames burn hotter on the floor of the pit; a creature there 
takes 14 (4d6) fire damage per turn. The floor of the pit has 
a glyph of warding cast upon it. The glyph can be discerned 
with a successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check, 
made with disadvantage due to the flickering flames that 
dance about. Touching or stepping on the bottom of the 
pit triggers the glyph, which casts a hold person spell that 
targets one humanoid creature. The target must succeed 
on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become paralyzed 
for 1 minute. The spell magically resets at dawn each day. 




Resting on the floor of the pit, unharmed by the flames, is 
a gold ring set with a single massive diamond. The ring can 
be noticed from the exterior of the pit with a successful DC 
14 Wisdom (Perception) check or discovered without a 
check if someone enters the pit to investigate the floor. The 
ring appears to be worth 10,000 gp on first examination, 
but it’s much more valuable than that: it is a ring of djinni 
summoning. The command word (“Nomsum Zuraara el- 
Akram”) is cunningly hidden in the flowing patterns on 
the interior of the ring. If the ring is placed on a finger 
and the command word is spoken, it summons Zuraara 
el-Akram, a djinni, which appears within 120 feet of the 
wearer's location. Zuraara is friendly and serves the wearer 
for up to 1 hour or until he is reduced to 0 hit points. He 
asks for a bribe of no less than 5,000 gp—preferably in 
gems or jewelry—to serve but this is not required. His de- 
ception can be revealed with a successful DC 14 Wisdom 




(Insight) check. 




AREA 88 — GUARDROOM 
This smelly room is about 40 feet by 40 feet, although the 




hewn walls are irregular and unfinished, save for the southern 
wall. That wall is covered with a stylistic painting and along 
it is a pile of jagged boulders. In the southwest and southeast 
corners of the room are piles of mangy furs, likely the beds for 
the two hulking brutes that stand over you. These pot-bellied 
humanoids stand over 15 feet tall, and proudly display just 




about the largest clubs you have ever seen. 




These two dimwitted giants are hill giants in the employ of 
the Zargonites. They fancy themselves as beast caretakers; 
they are responsible for the “care” and feeding of the hydra 
in area 86, the manticore in area 89, the chimera in area 
95, and the blue dragon in area 96. As such, they have a 
pair of bloody sacks to transport meat and several 12-foot- 
long metal poles to hold the creatures at bay during the 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIN 




ha acini 




CARMATED e THE LOST City 




process. The hill giants start the encounter as hostile, but 
fast-talking characters could convince the dim-witted gi- 
ants they work for the Zargonites with a successful DC 13 
Charisma (Deception) check. Otherwise, the giants attack 
and fight to the death. If one is defeated, the other sur- 
renders, fleeing to area 89 to release the manticore. The 
pair then tries to hunt down the characters, fighting to the 




death if need be. 




The fur piles reek and the once valuable animal pelts are 
now stained and worthless. The pile of boulders has 11 
rocks suitable for throwing. The painting depicts a gloomy 
underground river. 




There is a recessed area of the floor covered with a gray 
cloth that can be located with a successful DC 13 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. The recessed area is about 4 feet in di- 
ameter and nearly 5 feet deep. It is full of coins: 12,000 
sp and 5,000 gp. Mixed into the coins are a coral statue 
of a leviathan with blue quartz eyes (1,100 gp), a potion of 
healing, a +2 shortsword, a helm of comprehending languages, 
and a cursed spell scroll. If the scroll is examined closely 
(such as to determine what spell it holds) the reader must 
succeed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or be trans- 
formed into a ]-inch-tall version of itself. The creature is 
now Tiny-sized, has its Strength reduced to 3 (-4), and has 
its speed reduced to 5 feet. This effect can only be canceled 
with a dispel magic (DC 16) or remove curse spell. 




AREA 89 — MANTICORE PEN 




DM Note: This door is barred from the outside with a 
thick piece of iron. Removing the iron bar is easy, but it 
alerts creature inside the room. 




On opening the door, you are greeted by the leering visage of a 
beast with a vaguely humanoid head—but its body is that of 
a lion, with draconic black wings and a ball-like tail bristling 
with wicked spikes. The creature crouches in anticipation, its 
spiked tail whipping about with excitement. With a toothy 
grin, it leaps! 




This room is a pen for a manticore, the favored pet of the 
hill giants in area 88. It wears a black leather collar with a 
ring (which can be attached to the leash hanging on the 
wall). The manticore’s name, “Spike,” is crudely painted on 
the collar in Giant. The manticore’s opening leaping attack 
is more an invitation to “play.” If he hits, the target takes 
6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone 
unless it makes a successful DC 13 Strength saving throw. 
If the characters don’t “play” in return, the manticore soon 
shifts to more deadly attacks. If reduced to 15 hit points or 




na 




ELE 




fewer, the manticore retreats to a corner of the room with 
its tail between its legs and cowers. 




Hanging on the south wall near the door is a 20-foot-long 
leather leash with a metal clip that connects to the man- 
ticore’s collar. If the leash is attached to the manticore, it 
immediately calms down and stops attacking, assuming it’s 
getting a treat and going for a walk. Attaching the clip to 
the collar during combat requires an action and a success- 




ful DC 18 Dexterity check. 




Hanging from the ceiling on a chain is thick leather sack 
holding 500 gp used as a punching toy. In the northwest 
corner of the room is a pile of coins consisting of 3,500 gp. 
There are five battered gold plates (each worth 200 gp, but 
once much more valuable), also used as toys, mixed into 
the coins. Not only does Spike catch these, but he also uses 
them as target practice with his tail spikes if tossed in the 
air. The pile also contains a strange flat piece of rusted met- 
al—the key to the metal box in area 91—and a gold idol of 
an amorphous humanoid belching ichor (5,000 gp). 




There is a painting on the north wall, but due to the zeal- 
ous playing of the manticore, most of it is worn away. A 
successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals 
the painting depicts an underground pool of fire. This is a 
representation of the Eye of Zargon (see chapter 6, area Q). 




AREA 90 — ROOM OF DAWN 




This 40-foot-square room has walls that are nearly smooth. 
The walls, floor, and ceiling have all been painted a bright 
shade of yellow. 




The ladder ends on the floor of this chamber. It leads up to 
area 79 on Tier 7 (and eventually up to Tier 6). The walls, 
floor, and ceiling in this room have all been painted the 
color of sunlight. There is nothing else of interest here. 




AREA 91 — FORSAKEN CHAMBER 




DM Note: Each of these doors leading into area 91 are 
barred from the outside, as the Zargonites fear the undead 
spirit contained therein. 




This 40-foot-square room appears undisturbed for many years, 
as everything is covered with a thick coat of dust. In the center 
of the room is a metal box, although it does not appear to have 
any seams or lock. The south wall is covered with a painting. 




The Zargonites avoid this chamber. The painting shows a 
ferryboat approaching a group of Cynidicean spirits wait- 
ing on the bank of an underground river. 




The unquiet spirit of a former high priest of Gorm haunts 
this room as a specter. 




The metal box is locked, but first the concealed lock needs 
to be discovered with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (In- 
vestigation) check. The lock can be picked with thieves’ 
tools and a successful DC 18 Dexterity check. The box is 
trapped, which triggers if the box is opened without its key. 
They key can be found in area 89. The trap can be found 
with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. It 
can be disabled with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 18 
Dexterity check. If triggered, the trap releases a cloud of 
weakness gas that fills this chamber in 3 rounds. It takes 1 
hour for the gas the disperse naturally. A creature inside the 
cloud must make a successful DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned for 6 hours. While poisoned, the 
creature suffers disadvantage on all attack rolls, Strength- 
and Dexterity-based saving throws, and ability checks. 




Inside the chest is a pile of 7,000 gp. 
KEY TO TIER9 (MAP 9) 




AREA 92 — LAIR OF THE SWINE 




This 20-foot-by-40-foot hall is covered with a grimy carpet. In 
the middle of the room is a battered black metal brazier, softly 
glowing with embers. At the far end of the room is a table with 
one chair. The chair is occupied by a grossly overweight human 
with greasy black hair, tastelessly combed over. He seems preoc- 
cupied with counting stacks of coins. The north wall is covered 
with a painting. 


This is the lair of one of Zargon’s powerful allies: a shape- 
changing lycanthrope that can assume the form of a boar 
called a devil swine (see appendix B). This is Sus Scrofa, 
a clean-shaven and bald overweight human with saggy 
jowls and a sloped forehead. His smooth skin is marred 
with warts and oozing sores. Sus is a despicable, gluttonous 
individual, concerned only with himself, his silver coins, 
and when his next meal is served. He begins the encounter 
indifferent and assumes the characters are cultists bring- 
ing him his next meal. Once he determines they are not 
loyal to Zargon, he attempts to parley with them, using 
carefully-placed charm person spells to sway them to his 
service. Sus is bitter rivals with Lady Sabina (see area 94). 
He offers half his silver coins if they not only defeat the 
wicked Lady Sabina, but also humiliate her. He does not 
disclose her undead abilities, though. In human form he 
carries a shortsword under his robes, but he is a poor fight- 
er, preferring to use his spells or shapechanging ability first 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




if melee is unavoidable. If reduced to 10 hit points or fewer, 
he surrenders and grovels for his life. He gladly parts with 
his treasure, but outside of betraying the Lady Sabina, he 
(falsely) claims to lack knowledge on other parts of this level. 




On the table are 40 stacks of 50 silver coins each (2,000 
sp total). Behind the table is a pile of mangy furs (his bed) 
and a chest. The north wall’s painting depicts evil spirits 
being judged by an unseen arbiter. The evil spirits are being 
turned back upon judgment. 




The chest is locked and contains the rest of the devil swine’s 
hoard of silver coins. The key is hidden in the burning em- 
bers of the brazier and requires a successful DC 17 Wis- 
dom (Perception) check to locate. If not removed with a 
tool and allowed to cool, touching the metal key causes 1 
fire damage. The lock can also be picked with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Inside the chest 
are 2,000 sp. 




AREA 93 — TRAP ENTRANCE TO 
ZARGON’S LAIR 




The door to this room is kept locked, and the cultists of 
Zargon have the key. Otherwise, the lock needs to be 
picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexter- 
ity check. 




Beyond the door is a short corridor that spills into a chamber. 
The walls of this chamber are covered with an elaborate paint- 




ing of a scene of spirits boarding a dazzling golden-winged boat. 




The hallway to room 93 turns into a slide when entered, 
tumbling the party into Tier 10, the lair of Zargon. The 
cultists typically open the door and dump sacrificial crea- 
tures on the pressure plate that triggers the trap. The trigger 
can be detected with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. If more than 50 pounds of weight is placed 
on the second square of the corridor, the entire 20-foot 
corridor tilts and turns into a slide. Any creature in the 
corridor must attempt a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw; 
failure indicates the creature tumbles down the slide, tak- 
ing 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage, landing prone in area 
100, and being stunned for 1 round. Success indicates half 
damage and no stun effect, although the creature is still 
prone in area 100. There is no method to disable the trap 
from the corridor. One minute after the slide trap is trig- 
gered, it resets. 




The 20-foot-square chamber at the end of the corridor 
is empty. A painting depicts glowing spirits boarding a 
winged boat made of golden light. 




AREA 94 — LADY SABINA’S LAIR 
DM Note: Each door to this chamber is locked and sports 




a massive keyhole. There is no key, as the cultists are for- 
bidden to enter, and the occupant enters and departs as a 
cloud of mist. Each door can be unlocked from the inside, 
or the lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a success- 
ful DC 22 Dexterity check from the outside. Picking a 
lock alerts the occupant that interlopers are coming. 




This softly lit chamber is cozy, with a thick plush rug covering 
the floor and dark tapestries concealing the walls. The illumi- 
nation emits from a fireplace set into the northeast wall, its 
flames dancing on logs that don’t appear scorched. The scent of 
incense tingles your nostrils, intermingled with fine perfume. 
In the southwest corner of the room is a black wrought-iron 
bed piled high with silken sheets and numerous pillows. A pale 
female human wearing a tight gown lounges on the bed un- 
concerned with the intrusion. She sips a crimson drink from 




a crystal goblet. 




This is the lair of Zargon’s most powerful ally, the Lady Sa- 
bina. Despite her benign appearance, she is a foul vampire. 
She sips the blood of a recent victim and greets the charac- 
ters with a wry smile. When encountered, she assumes the 
characters are allies of Zargon and is indifferent. Regard- 
less, she attempts to charm the most handsome character, 
all the while engaging the others in conversation about the 
all-powerful Zargon and its unquenchable hunger. She de- 
spises Sus (see area 92) and suspects the characters might 
be in league with him. If so, she offers double the sum he 
agreed to—plus his wealth—in return for them betraying 
him. She cares not, as she plans to betray the characters 
after using them as pawns (see “Developments,” below). 




If she is attacked, she again uses her Charm action to turn 
the tables on the characters. If need be, she relies on un- 
armed strikes and bite attacks, while summoning a host of 
bats to confuse targets. If reduced to 50 hit points or fewer 
then she turns to mist and flees. 




The fire in the fireplace is a continual flame effect. The car- 
pet is normal, but four of the tapestries are worth 500 gp 
each. Behind the tapestry on the west wall is a painting de- 
picting a winged boat of golden light approaching a group 
of glowing spirits. 




Lady Sabina wears six pieces of matching platinum jew- 
elry, set with jagged pieces of onyx. These include two 
bracers (worth 250 gp and 550 gp), a pair of earrings 
(800 gp), a necklace (2,400 gp), and two rings (worth 
400 gp and G00 gp). 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Developments. If she is forced to 
flee, she regenerates while using spi- 
der climb to hide on a corridor ceiling. 
She calls to her prey and mocks them, 
and either leads them to her pet (area 
95) or to the clutches of Zargon via 
area 93. 




If she strikes a friendship with the 
characters, she gladly leads the char- 
acters to Zargon, falsely promising to 
aid in its defeat. In this case, she leads 
them to area 93, unlocks the door, 
and encourages them to enter. She will 
even enter first to prove its safe. When 
several characters are in the corridor, 
she willingly triggers the slide trap and 




turns to mist to avoid its effects. 




AREA 95 — LAIR OF THE 
GREAT BEAST 
The floor of this 20-foot-by-30-foot chamber is scorched and 




covered with soot. Curled in the northwest corner of the room, 


among gleaming golden and silvered objects, is a magnificent 
multi-headed beast. The creature sports the cruel head of a 


red dragon, the regal head of a lion, and the stubborn head of 
a ram, complete with black spiraled horns. It lifts its leonine 
head with effort and issues a thundering roar that rouses the 
other heads, while unfurling its draconic wings. 




The beast is a chimera, forced to reside in these cramped 
quarters, which has bestowed upon it a most foul disposi- 
tion. Unless the Lady Sabina is present with the characters 
(she has a calming effect on her beast), the chimera is hos- 
tile and unleashes its fiery breath before closing into melee. 
It is content to use its bite, horns, and claws while its Fire 
Breath recharges. When available, it uses its Fire Breath 
instead of its bite. The chimera fights to the death. 




The chamber smells faintly of animal waste. The painting 
on the north and west walls depicts the warrior maiden 
Madarua, although dressed in the formal robes of a judge. 
She is presiding over and issuing justice among the com- 
mon people, clearly basking in her wisdom. 




The chimera is placated by numerous valuable art objects 
and jewelry, collected in the corner of the chamber. These 
valuables include three rings (two are gold and one is elec- 
trum, worth 200 gp, 500 gp, and 700 gp, respectively), a 
golden scepter set with pearls (3,675 gp), a silver crown 




% 4 yy iu. RELL anit 
Vi, Wo Le Sy ii j/// 
if F7. AyD ||| 




a ARRAN 
HAY 




q 




set with emeralds (1,850 gp), a pair of matching plati- 
num chalices set with sapphires (2,000 gp each), a string 
of cream-colored freshwater pearls (450 gp), a crystal orb 
the size of an orange (125 gp, but enchanted with Mystul’s 
magic aura), and three electrum ingots (500 gp each). The 
crystal orb appears to be a crystal ball (and it does radiate 
magic), but its true value can be discerned with a success- 




ful DC 17 Intelligence (Investigation) check. 
AREA 96 — BONE PILE 




DM Note: If the characters enter this chamber from Tier 8 
via the stairs, alter the following read-aloud text: 




This 30-foot-by-30-foot room is covered with bleached bones, 
about knee-deep. A staircase carved into the stone ends in the 
center of the room, providing access to the level above. A color- 
ful painting decorates the south wall. 




The bones are from humanoids, and many of them are bro- 
ken, shattered, or splintered making movement through- 
out this chamber difficult at best. The floor is considered 
difficult terrain and movement faster than a walk (includ- 
ing combat) requires a successful DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw, or the creature falls prone, suffering 3 (1d6) pierc- 
ing damage from a splintered bone. The cultists of Zargon 
have hidden a guardian in the bone pile: a bone golem 
(see appendix B). Without the use of magic, it is impos- 
sible to discover the construct until it moves. It does not 
attack those traveling down the stairs unless they spend 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City "4 
LESION a REINER | EERE SY SM eM Se eae eat Nea bs = 8 lia eA mm ds aS a eR ERE Biting a i Y 




more than 1 minute in the room. Likewise, it does not 
immediately attack a creature that enters via a door, heads 
directly to another door, and exits, within 1 minute. Any 
further delay, and the bone construct rises from the pile 
and reveals a pair of greatswords carved from mastodon leg 
bones (two attacks, +4 to hit, 9 [2d6 + 2] slashing dam- 
age each). Once activated, the bone golem fights until de- 
stroyed, even following creatures that attempt to flee the 
chamber. 




The painting on the south wall depicts a woman dressed in 
white, washing the spirits of the dead in a pool of fire dis- 
played in brilliant oranges, reds, and yellows. Aside from 
the bones, there is nothing else of value in the room. 




AREA 97 - DRAGON’S LAIR 




DM Note: The inhabitant of this chamber is usually asleep. 
But, due to its keen senses (it has Perception [+9]), grant it 
an opposed check to the characters’ attempt at Stealth (if 
any). If the characters succeed, they catch the dragon sleep- 
ing; adjust the read-aloud text below. If the characters are 
not attempting Stealth, or fail, the dragon is awake when 
they enter. 




An acrid tinge of sulfur assaults your nostrils as you push open 
the stone portal to the next chamber. Beyond is a 30-foot-by- 
30-foot, rough-hewn chamber with a high ceiling. The north 
wall is smooth and covered with a detailed painting of a com- 
plicated scene. Curled on a pile of coins and precious metal 
objects along the southeast corner of the room is a majestic 
draconic form with brilliant blue scales. Its wings are folded 
over its body serving as a blanket, and a forepaw with wicked 
talons covers its nose. Yet the dragon is wide awake, as piercing 
blue eyes bore into your very souls. 




The draconic form is a young blue dragon named Azurux. 
At great cost in both monetary wealth and cultists’ lives, 
the Zargonites struck a deal with a local blue dragon will- 
ing to sell one of her wyrmlings. The wyrmling grew and 
has lived in this chamber since, but has done little to fur- 
ther the goals of the cult. Mistreated, underfed, and gener- 
ally ignored at best—and physically and verbally abused 
at worst—the dragon has a foul temper, and is little more 
than a killing machine, unaware of its true might. It begins 
any encounter as hostile, but quick-thinking characters 
might be able to parley with the dragon with a success- 
ful DC 23 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Azurux lusts for 
treasure, like most dragons, and an offer of at least 1,000 
gp in sapphires or blue quartz gems grants advantage on 
any skill checks to sway its disposition. In combat, Azurux 




begins with its breath weapon, and then follows up with 
its typical claw/claw/bite routine while his breath weapon 
recharges. 




Aside from the dragon’s hoard, there is nothing of interest 
in the chamber. The painting along the north wall depicts 
lawful spirits being judged. After a lawful spirit has been 
judged, it glows with a golden radiance. 




The dragon’s hoard contains the following treasure. The 
coins were painted by the cult to deceive the dragon into 
believing its hoard is much more valuable. A close inspec- 
tion reveals the paint with a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. 




° 6,000 sp 


* 15,000 gp (actually copper coins covered with gold paint) 
* Six gold ingots (each worth 1,000 gp) 


* A silver coffer set with blue quartz (2,500 gp) 


* A pouch of sapphire dust (inside the coffer; 750 gp) 


¢ A bronze gong engraved with a hippogriff (no stand; 450 




gp) 
* A leather cape studded with sapphires (1,750 gp) 




° A silver platter and four matching silver goblets (500 gp 
as a set) 




¢ An ironwood baton gilded with gold and set with blue 
quartz (800 gp) 




* A collection of three matching blue coral statuettes, de- 
picting merfolk maidens in different poses (each worth 




300 gp) 
¢ A massive, but flawed, dark blue sapphire (1,000 gp) 




* A longsword with silvered blade and a blue spinel set in 
its pommel (600 gp) 




¢ A platinum crown set with a large blue topaz (4,000 gp) 




AREA 98 — SLIME ROOM 




This chamber is roughly 30 feet in diameter, although the 
walls are very rough and irregular. The walls are covered with 
a violet slime that oozes from the ceiling and forms puddles on 
the smooth floor. The east wall appears to be painted, but this 
is covered with a slimy residue as well. 




This chamber is empty. The violet slime is harmless, al- 
though it appears to be oozing out of cracks along the walls 
and the ceiling. The slime is a by-product of Zargon’s influ- 
ence and the proximity to its lair (area 100). If the east wall 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




is cleaned, a thankless task that takes about 20 minutes, 
the painting on the wall can be examined. The painting 
depicts Gorm dressed in the robes of a judge. 




AREA 99 —- MOLD ROOM 




This square chamber is 20 feet on a side, although the walls 
are rough-hewn and uneven. A pair of stone doors provide 
entrance to this room. The walls, ceiling, and floor are cov- 
ered with patches of sickly green-blue mold colonies. The mold 
stalks are several inches long and undulate even though there is 
no breeze or other air movement. The east wall appears to have 
a painting, but it is obscured by the mold. 




This chamber is empty save for the mold colonies. The 
mold growth is bolstered by the proximity of Zargon’s lair 
(area 100). The mold is harmless, although if disturbed (the 
colonies can be avoided with careful movement) it releases 
clouds of spores (also harmless). The DM should make the 
characters roll a few fake saving throws just to keep them 
on edge. If the east wall is cleaned, which takes 20 minutes 
and disturbs several colonies of mold, the party can exam- 
ine the painting underneath. The painting depicts Usami- 
garas dressed in the robes of a judge. 




TIER 10 
(DUNGEON LEVEL 6) 




KEY TO TIER_I0 (MAP I0) 




AREA 100 —- SLIME PIT LAIR OF ZARGON 




DM Note: Most likely, the characters arrive in this cham- 
ber from the slide trap in area 93. Zargon surprises any 
creatures that tumble down the slide, and unleashes all its 
fury, eager to feed once again. 




Sliding into a large, slime-covered chamber, you find that the 
floor is littered with bones. Suddenly, you hear a slopping noise 
from the north wall. There, a huge humanoid figure rises from 
the slime, standing a full 15 feet tall. Viscid slime drips from 
its form as it reveals its massive bulk. Its head is that of a gi- 
ant lizard and a 2-foot-long horn—colored black with silver 
flecks—curves upward above its single red eye. The aberration 
sports a wide mouth full of sharp teeth. Instead of arms, the 
creature has six tentacles, three on each side of its body, each 
ending in razor-sharp talons. Instead of legs, the creature slith- 
ers toward you on six more thick, powerful tentacles. 




The slime pit lair of Zargon (see appendix C) is 40 feet by 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City "4 




40 feet with somewhat finished walls. The ceiling stretches 
to a height of 30 feet to account for Zargon’s height. The 
floor is covered with brown slime that is considered difh- 
cult terrain. Attempts at running or acrobatic combat ma- 
neuvers require a creature to make successful DC 15 Dex- 
terity check, with failure resulting in the creature ending its 
movement and falling prone. The slide back up to area 93 
is 90 feet long and difficult to climb. It requires a success- 
ful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check during each turn of movement to ascend. Failure 
indicates a slip and the target slides back down to area 100. 




Zargon’s rubbery bulk is concealed under the slime, but as 
the characters arrive here, it soon presents itself, confident 
it soon shall feed. Overconfident, it begins attacking with 
its tentacles, attempting to grapple targets. A grappled tar- 
get is moved closer to its space for bite and gore attacks. It 
reserves legendary actions to use innate spellcasting abili- 
ties. It starts by casting freedom of movement and then trans- 
mute rock (see appendix A). It then casts conjure ooze (see 
appendix A) as appropriate, preferring to summon a black 




a 
ZARGON’S LAIR ACTIONS 




On initiative count 20 (losing all ties) Zargon takes a 
lair action to cause one of the following effects: 




- Zargon causes a patch of slime to drop from the ceil- 
ing onto a 10-foot-square section of the floor. The 
slime is considered green slime (Dungeon Master's 
Guide, p. 105) and targets all creatures in the area of 
effect. 




- Zargon releases a cloud of spores in a 10-foot cube. All 
creatures in the area of effect must make a success- 
ful DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 1 (2d10) 
poison damage and gain the poisoned condition for 1 
hour. The spore cloud dissipates after 3 rounds. 




-Zargon belches forth slime in a 30-foot cone. All crea- 
tures in the area of effect must make a successful DC 
17 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) acid dam- 
age and 11 (2d10) poison damage, gain the poison 
condition for 1 hour, and be pushed back 10 feet. A 
creature succeeding on the saving throw takes half 
damage and is not pushed back. 




DM Note: Zargon cannot cause the same effect in con- 
secutive rounds. 




e—____________e 




AAS sa mr ynttss \ : sd pl . ANG A Ly eg Wir, i Y, y 
i wa | iN \ \ By) By Ni Nt y rane rs Lie Wn ae Up, 




\" 




= 




am 




i 




yy 




Be, y - \ 
Mh aN 
ww) 




HIME 




RGN r 




See 




& 
SSS 




WhiMaantt 




RT ERIE LN SS +S SR TERT 




URES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




SS ap ET YB sm ae Te 




LLL LIL FS aI EE ATELY TH TT BAC AL SON EN RE TT 




pudding first, and then two ochre jellies on subsequent 


castings. Each turn, it takes advantage of its lair actions 


(see sidebar). Zargon fights to the death, confident that its 


Regeneration trait will alleviate the permanency of death 
(<4 » 


(see “Developments,” below). 




Although Zargon is ancient, it is no god. It is a cunning 
aberration that discovered its “godhood” makes it easier 
to get victims. Zargon was once worshipped by primitive 
humanoids in early times but retreated underground when 
the primitives were wiped out by the ancestors of the Cy- 
nidiceans. Zargon remained in a strange hibernation for 
many years. By chance, the Cynidiceans built the pyramid 
on the spot where Zargon’s original shrine stood, and the 
Cynidicean slaves’ later digging to create the Lower Pyra- 
mid chambers awakened the creature. 




In the slime of Zargon’s lair is the treasure it has gathered, 
mostly collected by its cult. All these items are covered with 
noxious slime and require thorough cleaning, The hoard 
includes 58,000 sp, 9,000 pp, a suit of +2 chain mail, a +2 
shield, a +2 spear, a cursed spell scroll, a wand of illusion (see 
appendix A), a cloak of elvenkind, and boots of elvenkind. A 
character reading the cursed spel! scroll must succeed on a 
DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or by polymorphed into 




a miniature 3-foot-tall version of Zargon. In this form, the 
character has AC 11 and no special traits, but can make six 
tentacle attacks (+2 to hit, 1d4 bludgeoning damage) and 
one bite attack (+2 to hit, 1d6 piercing damage) per turn. 




Developments. If reduced to 0 hit points, Zargon even- 
tually regenerates and resumes its diabolic feeding frenzy 
and subjugation of the Cynidicean people. Its horn is the 
power source of its regeneration. If forcefully removed via 
a successful Strength contest, Zargon can be permanently 
destroyed—assuming the horn is then cast into the fires 
of the Eye of Zargon (see chapter 6, area Q). Destroy- 
ing the horn must be completed within 24 hours of its 
removal for Zargon’s death to be permanent. The factions 
opposed to Zargon have the knowledge of this weakness 
and some magic objects to aid in this quest. (See chapter 




6 for details.) 




Experience. Simply facing Zargon and surviving is worth 
a CR 4 experience reward (1,100 XP). If the characters 
reduce Zargon to 0 hit points but fail to remove the horn 
and destroy it in the fires of the Eye of Zargon within 24 
hours, award them a CR 6 experience award (2,300 XP). 
Only if they permanently destroy Zargon should they get 
the full CR 12 experience reward (8,400 XP). 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City x 




CHAPTER SIX 




The Lost City of Cynidicea 




lower portions of the pyramid, the Dungeon Master 


may want to create further adventures in or around 
the Lost City. Such adventures could take place in the 
underground city or in the desert wilderness around the 
pyramid. A layout of the Lost City is provided for the 
DM on map 12, and its most important features are de- 
scribed, but the DM is encouraged to develop even more 
locations to spin the types of stories she wants to tell. 
Suggestions for additional adventures are given at the end 




of this chapter. 




4 f the players enjoyed adventuring in the upper and 




GENERAL FEATURES 




The underground city was built in the Upper Catacombs 
below the old city after the surface city was destroyed by 
a barbarian horde. About 1,000 adult Cynidiceans cur- 
rently reside in the city. 




Construction. The buildings of the Lost City are all con- 
structed of cut rock. 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid. 
The air is still dry, with a very faint organic smell. 




Ceilings. The main cavern that houses the Lost City is 
about 300 feet high along the eastern side and increases 
to about 450 feet high as one moves to the west. Interior 
building ceiling heights vary; see the individual text de- 
scriptions for details, but the DM can assume a default 
height between 10 and 15 feet. 




Doors. Unless otherwise noted, all doors are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and push 
inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can be 
burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. There is no natural light in the Lost City. 
However, there is a perpetual dusk-like illumination cre- 
ated by phosphorescent fungus that adorns the walls and 
ceiling of the cavern. The fungus is cultivated by the Cy- 
nidiceans and strategically encouraged to grow in select 
locations, such as along the pillars that line the streets 
and above doorways and archways of structures. These 
growths are maintained by the zombie gangs that wander 
the streets. For game purposes, treat this as dim light. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 30 minutes of exploration. At the DM’s 
discretion, wandering monster checks can be called for if 
the characters make a prolonged amount of loud noise, 
such as combat. Some areas of the Lost City have their 
own wandering monster tables, as described below. Roll 
1d20 for the type of monster encountered or choose one 
from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health. 




BLACK PUDDING 




Several black puddings roam the passages and empty 
streets of the Lost City and the surrounding environs. 
The Cynidiceans are good at avoiding them, and occa- 
sionally when one gets too close to populated areas, a 
squad of hobgoblins is called in to corral the ooze and 
move it to a better hunting ground. 




CULT MEMBERS 




This group is a band of six Cynidicean cultists of Zargon 
led by a Cynidicean cult fanatic of Zargon (see appen- 
dix C for both). They are conducting a task for their dark 
master, likely moving to the Temple of Zargon (area K) 
or away from it to the passages of the pyramid. Each cult- 
ist carries 1d6 sp and the cult fanatic has 2d6 gp. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




WANDERING MONSTERS: THE LOST CITY 




D20 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


1-4 Cynidiceans Varies Varies Appendix C See description 
5-8 Zombies 8 50 MM, p. 316 


9-11 Cult members he Varies Appendix C See description 
12-14 Goblinoids 11 Varies Varies See description 
15 Black pudding 1 1,100 MM, p. 241 


16-19 Hobgoblins 8 100 MM, p. 186 See description 
20 Deep gnomes S; 100 MM, p. 164 


CYNIDICEANS 




The Cynidiceans (see appendix C) are degenerate humans 
that live underground in the Lost City. They have pale, 
pasty skin, with bone-white hair and oversized eyes. Cy- 
nidiceans typically wear masks and brightly colored robes 
and often are acting out strange dreams when encoun- 
tered (see the “DM’s Background” section in chapter 3 
for more information). A dozen Cynidicean encounters, 
usable for all dungeon levels and the Lost City, are pre- 
sented in appendix C. The DM may randomly determine 
one of these encounters or use them as a guide to design 
her own. 




DEEP GNOMES 




This trio of deep gnomes is scouting the outskirts of the 
city. They use Stealth to escape scrutiny, although the 
characters can detect them with a successful Wisdom 
(Perception) vs. Dexterity (Stealth) contest. These deep 
gnomes can speak Common, so even if the characters are 
unaware of their presence they are likely followed and 
spied upon, to determine their allegiance. At the DM’s 
discretion the deep gnomes might reach out to the char- 
acters and offer to parley. These scouts are allied with Ke- 
ogh’s band (see chapter 8, cavern A, area 5). 




GOBLINOIDS 




These 10 goblins hail from the caves at area O and areled 
by a single bugbear. They are performing a task for the 
hobgoblins garrisoned in the city, or simply on patrol and 
looking to get into trouble. Bored with their current task 
they gladly engage with the characters to blow off some 
steam. They flee if half of their numbers or their leader is 
defeated or incapacitated. Each goblin carries 1d4 sp, and 
the bugbear carries 2d8 sp and 1d6 gp. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




HOBGOBLINS 




Bands of hobgoblins, loyal to Zargon and its cult, act as 
enforcers in the Lost City. They are stationed either in the 
temple (area K) or the building that guards the entrance 
to the Lower Catacombs (area R). There is a 50% chance 
they are leading 2d4 Cynidicean commoners (see ap- 
pendix C) in leg irons from the city to either the temple 
or to Zargon directly (see area 93 in chapter 5). One of 
the hobgoblins carries the key to the locks, although they 
can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 
15 Dexterity check. Alternatively, the chains can be burst 
with a successful DC 21 Strength check. Each hobgoblin 
carries 2d6 gp and one has a whip (+3 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
3 [1d4 + 1] slashing damage) to discipline the slaves, if 




present. 




ZOMBIES 




The high priest of Zargon animates dead bodies as zom- 
bies and commands them to loosely patrol the city 
streets. They tend to the litter and debris and cultivate 
the phosphorescent fungal growth. They have orders to 
ignore others while performing their duties, although if 
attacked, they mindlessly defend themselves. 




2 




~ 




 & 




iT 


a eS we 


Em SD aS Saat SUS BN BN HE wa 
ee OS IA LP ELS 




KEY TO THE LOST CiTy (mApP I2) 




Map 11 depicts a side view of the surface ruins, the pyra- 
mid (both the upper and lower levels), the Lost City, and 
the caverns underneath. Map 12 shows the encounter lo- 
cations in the city and the surrounding area. The most 
important features of the city are: 




AREA A - UNDERGROUND LAKE 




The underground lake is the primary water supply for 
Cynidicea. The locals refer to it as Lake Moldvay after 
a great Cynidicean hero from long before King Alexan- 
der’s reign. It is a deep freshwater lake fed by channels 
cut through the solid rock. These were engineered with 
the aid of deep gnome allies centuries ago. The lake is 
teeming with large fish that provide a suitable source of 
food for the Cynidiceans. Quippers are also common in 
the deep cold waters of the lake, and they occasionally 




coalesce into a swarm of quippers to feed on larger prey. 
Cynidicean fishermen sometimes catch 3-foot-long giant 
quippers (see appendix B) in their nets, although they 
are not particularly tasty. The Zargonites, with their allies 
in the Lower Catacombs, have poisoned the lake with 
mass-produced elixir of fantasy (see sidebar). This helps 
maintain control of the general populace by drugging 
them into a dream-like state of mind where the Cynid- 
iceans succumb to wild hallucinatory fantasies for most 
of their waking hours. This partially explains their erratic 
behavior. 




AREA B - THE ISLAND OF DEATH (MAP 
13) 


In the middle of the underground lake is a twisted crag 
of rock that juts up from the lake bottom. The island has 




a flat top and its steep slopes are pockmarked with caves. 
From time to time, glowing lights are observed flitting 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




.. W 
TaintED waTteERs 




If the DM plans to continue the adventure into the 
Lower Catacombs (see area R), the characters can dis- 
cover the origin of the sinister group that is poison- 
ing the Cynidicean people. Using a distilled poison, 
agents of the Zargonites have gradually tainted the 
underground lake. The poison is extremely low-dose 
due to the dilution of the lake. In order to become 
poisoned a creature needs to drink the water every 
day for several weeks, so there is very little risk that 
the characters will be affected during the course of 
their adventures. For more details see the “Elixir of 
Fantasy” sidebar in chapter 3. 
oO YY 9 
about the cave entrances. In the center of the island is 
a Stonehenge-like group of standing stones constructed 
from large granite blocks, among several ancient toad- 
stools that nearly reach a height of 20 feet. It was con- 




structed long before the first Cynidiceans came here and 
built the pyramid. No one is quite sure of its original 
purpose or who built the structure—or how they even 
transported tons of standing stones to the island—but 
it is rumored to be a place of great power. When the 
Cynidiceans built the underground city, they dug up all 
the bodies in the Upper Catacombs and burned them in 
one mass pyre*. The ashes were then ferried to the island 
and scattered throughout the numerous caves. Sometime 
later, the island became the haunt of various types of un- 
dead and is now shunned by the Cynidiceans. 




B1. If the characters approach the island seeking a place 
to moor a boat, a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) 
check leads them to this location, where the water is only 
10 feet deep. There appears to be a set of steps carved into 
the rock that leads from the water’s edge to the top of the 
island. There was once a wooden dock here (similar to 
the docks in area C) but it has since rotted away (or been 
destroyed), although the stone pilings to which the tim- 
bers were once attached are still present. If the pilings are 




Standing 




ae Stone 




es 




ad | Leda 
arate ao 
SUL a Be 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




not noticed with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check, one is struck by the approaching boat and 
all creatures aboard must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity 
saving throw or fall into the water. The resulting splash- 
ing attracts the attention of a swarm of quippers which 
arrives after 1d3 rounds, in search of a meal. 




B2. A set of stairs has been carved into the rock here. Al- 
though steep and uneven, this staircase is the easiest route 
to the top of the island. The steps are flanked by three pairs 
of stone columns. Four wights, once foul military lead- 
ers for an ancient civilization, guard this route. They wear 
black chain mail (AC 16) and helms shaped like horned 
beasts. They wield jagged greatscimitars with both hands 
(+4 to hit, 7 [1d10 + 2] slashing damage) in addition to 
their standard longbows. Two of the wights are positioned 
atop the columns and use arrows to pin down combat- 
ants while the other two engage in melee on the steps. The 
steps’ unevenness makes this area difficult terrain. Ifa char- 
acter engages in combat here, then they must make a DC 
13 saving throw at the start of their turn; failing the save 
results in the character slipping and falling prone. 




B3. There are 13 caves scattered along the steep rocky 
slopes of the island. Each slope is between 40 and 50 feet 
high and requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check to scale. Each cave opening is 5 to 10 feet high and 
leads to 2d6 + 2 unlit natural chambers that honeycomb 
through the rocky island, occasionally connecting with 
other entrances. This confusing network of caves is not de- 
picted on a map. A trio of will-o’-wisps haunt these caves 
and attempt to lure unsuspecting victims to their demise 
at the incorporeal talons of the undead that reside herein. 




The caves are full of unquiet dead from the Cynidiceans’ 
despicable actions centuries ago. If a cave is entered, roll 
on the table below to determine the type and number of 
undead encountered: 




UNDEAD ENCOUNTERS IN THE CAVES 




er - ie 
RY ey = © 3 




If a2 or a 12 is rolled, make additional rolls as indicated 




(ignoring additional results of 2 or 12 results) to deter- 
mine the multiple types of undead that are encountered. 




Scorched skeletons are treated as unarmed skeletons 
(Slam action only, +2 to hit, 4 [1d4 + 2] bludgeoning 
damage). Their bones are blackened and charred from be- 
ing burnt long ago. 




B4. These standing stones were placed here long before 
the Cynidiceans settled the underground city. The seven 
blocks weigh several tons each, and it must have required 




2D6 # App XP Source Notes 


2 Special NA NA NA Roll twice on this table 


3 Flameskulls 1d3 1,100 MM, p. 134 


4-5 Shadows 4d4 100 MM, p. 269 


6-8 Specters 2d4 200 MM, p. 279 


9-10 Wraiths 1d2 1,800 MM, p. 302 


11 Scorched skeletons 4d6 50 MM, p. 272 As skeleton; see text above 
12 Special NA NA NA Roll three times on this table 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




great effort to transport them to the island and put into 
place. Each is composed of rough-hewn black granite 
with speckled mica, a type of rock that does not naturally 
occur anywhere within 100 miles. In the center of the 
structure is a smooth, solid block of pure black granite 
that is strangely warm to the touch. On the ground on 
the north side of the altar-like rock is a secret compart- 
ment that requires a successful DC 22 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check to locate. Inside is a platinum offering plate 
(500 gp), a matching plain platinum chalice (750 gp), 
and a scroll tube made of purplish metal. The tube holds 
a spell scroll inscribed with raise dead. 




AREA C - CITY DOCKS 




Two large ancient wooden docks extend out into the lake, 
forming a harbor for the fishing fleet. The wooden planks 
of the dock were collected in a distant forested region 
and transported across the desert for their current pur- 
pose. The Cynidiceans use boats and canoes carved from 
great mushroom stalks to set nets and traps to capture 
the bountiful fish that inhabit the lake. Recent neglect of 
the fishing gear and lack of training younger able-bodied 
fishermen have decreased the efficiency of fishing, result- 
ing in an increase in fish populations, especially the pred- 
atory quippers (all varieties; see area A above). 




AREA D — WATER-FILLED CHASM 




When the underground lake was first flooded, water 
flowed into this nearby chasm. Cynidicean fishermen 
avoid the chasm because there are dangerous undertows 
and sharp rock ledges hidden just beneath the surface of 
the water. If a boat or canoe is piloted here, at the start of 
each of their turns the pilot must make a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Survival) check or hit one of these sharp 
rock ledges. Striking a ledge capsizes the boat, throwing 
all occupants into the water. It requires a successful DC 
18 Strength (Athletics) check to pilot a boat to escape 




ENCOUNTERS IN THE MUSHROOM FIELDS 




the undertow and exit this treacherous stretch of water. 




Swimming in this area is difficult due to the undertows 
and powerful undercurrents. It requires a successful DC 
15 Strength (Athletics) check to swim here, with a failure 
indicating that the swimmer has struck a rocky ledge and 




suffers 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage. 
AREA E - ROCK BRIDGES 




Two natural rock arches form bridges across the water- 
filled chasm. They are sturdy and safe to cross as long as 
care is taken to move slowly over the uneven surfaces. 
Falling off one of these bridges dumps a creature into the 
water-filled chasm (area D). 




AREA F - MUSHROOM FIELDS 




The Cynidiceans farm mushrooms, edible fungi, and li- 
chens. These fields are not well tended these days, as the 
Cynidiceans slip deeper into the throes of their dream- 
like stupor. They are overgrown, looking more like forests 
of giant mushrooms than cultivated fields. For every 10 
minutes the characters spend exploring here, they have a 
1 in 6 chance of an encounter. Roll 1d8 for the type of 
monster encountered or choose one from the table below: 




D8 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


1 Spore cloud NA NA NA 10-foot cube; DC 13 Constitution save or poi- 
soned for 1 hour 


2 Violet fungi 1d3 50 MM, p. 138 


3-4 Shriekers 1d4+1 10 MM, p. 138 Attract a nearby band of 3d4 goblins 


5-6 Giant ants 3d4 25 Appendix B 


W, Gas spore 1 100 MM, p. 138 


8 Giant wolf spiders 1d2 50 MM, p. 330 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED 




eB 7S eA UT ERAT ANA ETI, 
e THE Lost City 




SS aomnae 




ENCOUNTERS IN THE STOCK PENS 




D8 _ Encounter # App XP 
1-2. Giant rats 4d4 25 
3-4 Giant cave locusts 2d4 50 
> Giant constrictor snakes 1d2 450 
6 Giant spiders 1d3 200 
7 Zombies bd3- <3 50 
8 Goblins 3d4 50 




AREA G —- STOCK PENS 




The Cynidiceans also herd giant underground animals. 
Their main sources of meat (other than fish) are nonpoi- 
sonous giant snakes, giant cave locusts, and giant rats. 
They keep the animals in stockade-like pens fashioned 
from giant mushroom stalks. Like the fields, the animals 
are poorly tended due to the condition of the Cynid- 
iceans. Some pens contain only dead animals because the 
Cynidiceans have forgotten to feed them. In other pens, 
the animals have broken down the walls and now roam 
freely among the mushroom forests. 




For every 10 minutes the characters spend searching in 
this area, there is a 1 in G6 chance of a random encounter. 
Roll 1d8 for the type of monster encountered or choose 
one from the table above. 




AREA H — WATER CHANNELS 
The Cynidiceans, with the aid of deep gnomish engi- 




neers, have laboriously cut channels through solid rock 
to feed the underground lake. These channels lead under 
the desert to hidden springs and a massive underground 
aquafer. Although they are 10 feet high and 10 feet wide, 
the water level in the channels is usually only 2 to 3 feet 
deep. Thus, these passages could be traversed by boat or 
swum. Such a journey would be long and harrowing, and 
sudden floods have been known to occur. Where these 
channels lead is up to the DM to decide. 




AREA I - ORPHEUS PARK 




When the underground city was first built, Orpheus, a 
wealthy citizen, had a park built in his honor. A sandy 
path leads into the park from a small beach. A tiny stream 
also trickles through the park from the underground lake. 
The park is landscaped with giant mushrooms and strange 
rock formations, although due to recent neglect the fun- 
gus is somewhat rampant. The rock formations are all 
natural and were carefully removed from locations in the 
Lower Catacombs and transported here for display. Many 




Source Notes 
MM, p. 327 


Appendix B 


MM, p. 324 


MM, p. 328 


MM, p. 316 


MM, p.166 —_1d6 sp each 




are natural representations of common everyday things or 
mundane creatures and have unofficial names. Examples 
include the weeping armadillo, the broken broom, the 
talon, the stretching osquip, and the falling star. 




AREA J — MAIN STREETS 




The two main streets, lined with marble columns, cross 
near the middle of the city. The tops of the marble col- 
umns glow softly with phosphorescent fungus. Groups of 
1d3 x 3 zombies mindlessly perform the tasks of tending 
these fungal patches and cleaning the streets. The streets, 
Alexander Way and Zenobia Street, are named after King 
Alexander and Queen Zenobia. The streets are quite 
busy with foot traffic, so wandering monster checks oc- 
cur every 10 minutes, and there is a 3 in 6 chance of an 
encounter. 




AREA K —- THE TEMPLE OF ZARGON 




(MAP 14) 
This the largest building in Cynidicea. It holds a temple 




to Zargon and barred cells where prisoners are kept un- 
til the cult members feed them to Zargon. The temple 
services are poorly attended, but Zargon’s cult is still the 
strongest power in the underground city. 




K1. There are two stone door entrances to the temple. 
Although unlocked, a contingent of four hobgoblin 
guards are positioned in front of each door. They serve 
10-hour shifts and are relieved from others stationed in 
area K2. Any humanoids that display a holy symbol of 
Zargon (see Handout #7 in appendix D) are allowed to 
pass freely, or a successful DC 20 Charisma (Deception 
or Intimidation) check will gain passage. Otherwise, the 
guards use force and are reinforced by their comrades sta- 
tioned at the other door and both areas K2, who respond 
in 1d3 rounds. 




K2. These two rooms are identical and serve as the 
barracks for the guards stationed at the temple. It is a 
high honor to receive an assignment for guard duty at 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED e THE LOST City 




MAP 14 Area K 




THE TEMPLE 




+ Door [__] Altar 
-S= Secret Door 




Dd Pit JD Stairs ; 
® Statue 




Cha “Floor eral =% 




tg Peo 
ot ae ee 
Peed eRe - Se 7 
SCPE Pee 
TCL L_LNLELEEELLELLL_ 
Ce 
| fey es | Pe tt LCL 
Tey TT Terror « 
Pee ae ee ee eee, 
2uGEe Seeks Aa 
- Soe CE Ke | [| 




2 




YY 




as iz 


ad ie = a a = 


| ik7|| ik EN kT), 
a ae 




fr 
eutectic nan ane a ie WR RRS Se MO SE era i aes omni 




SPA SAP ES AAS LE aR EUS AE Rr ETT 




V4. 
oricinaL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE Lost City > 




AGRRTEP ETE 




cs 




cn TO Ae, 




LDN le 




Z 




the temple, and as such these hobgoblins have the fin- 
est weapons and armor, and wear black tunics displaying 
crossed longswords dripping with blood. Each chamber 
houses eight hobgoblins, but at any given time half are 
at their post at the front doors. Simple bunk beds line the 
walls, each with a matching footlocker. These footlockers 
are locked (the guards carry the keys), but they can be 
picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 15 Dex- 
terity check. Each footlocker contains spare tunics, 3d6 
gp, and various personal effects. Each locker has a 30% 
chance to contain a valuable object worth 1d6 x 10 gp, 
such as a gem, a bottle of spirits, or a jeweled object such 
as a dagger or comb. 




K3. This is the main worship area. Unless there is a cer- 


emony going on (DM's discretion) this area is empty. The 


statue depicts a 10-foot-tall version of Zargon with a jew- 


eled horn (1,000 gp). The horn is tricky to remove, re- 


quiring a series of twisting and pulling motions that can 


only be deduced by making a successful DC 20 Intelli- 


gence (Investigation) check. This process takes 5 minutes. 


Additionally, each day the high priest places a guardian of 
faith spell on the statue to prevent theft of the horn. 




In front of a large stone altar is a 20-foot-square pit that is 
usually closed. The trigger to open the pit is a concealed 
lever on the back side of the altar. This lever can be found 
witha successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The 
pit is 30 feet deep and contains a twisted ooze-like creature 
called a corrupture (see appendix B). The high priest uses 




ORIGINAL A 




LE OLR ATI 




RALSTON UNE 




DVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




the pit during minor ceremonies to sacrifice lesser crea- 
tures (mostly goblins and weak or elderly Cynidiceans) in 
the honor of Zargon. Prime healthy sacrifices go straight 
to Zargon in the Lower Pyramid (see chapter 5, area 100). 




K4. These two locations are identical and are the living 
quarters for the cultists of Zargon. Each location serves as 
the living quarters for 12 Cynidicean cultists of Zargon 
(see appendix C). However, at any given time half of 
these cultists are not present, either running an errand 
for the high priest in the city or the pyramid, or even on 
a trek through the desert. Simple beds line the walls and 
each cultist has an unlocked locker with spare clothes and 
personal effects. 




K5. This room is a storeroom, containing dried food, 
pure (non-poisoned) water, and religious accoutrements. 
The latter includes candles, incense, spare robes, prayer 
cushions, etc. The cushions are used in area K3 during 
ceremonies. 




K6. The door to this chamber is locked. The high priest 
has the key, or the door can be burst with a successful DC 
22 Strength check or picked with thieves’ tools and a suc- 
cessful DC 20 Dexterity check. The chamber is divided 
into eight 10-foot-by-10-foot cells with iron bars. The 
keys to these cells are also held by the high priest. The 
bars can be bent with a successful DC 23 Strength check, 
or the locks can be picked with thieves’ tools and a suc- 




cessful DC 20 Dexterity check. 




LTC EGINTS BO RIOR PE A RST RET 




At any time, there are 2d4 prisoners in these cells, typi- 
cally goblins, or dispirited Cynidicean commoners (see 
appendix C). These unfortunate prisoners are destined to 
be sacrificed to the corrupture in area K3 during an up- 
coming ceremony, or possibly to Zargon itself. If the DM 
needs a replacement PC, this would be an ideal location 




to place an NPC. 




K7. These three second-story chambers are similar in 
function but vary in furnishings. Each room serves as 
the living quarters for four Cynidicean cult fanatics of 
Zargon (see appendix C). Each room contains semi-pri- 
vate beds and storage lockers, plus a battered table. The 
lockers contain spare clothing, religious paraphernalia, 
and 4d6 gp in random coins and personal effects. One 
locker (determine randomly) contains a potion of healing 
stuffed in a dirty sock. Two of the rooms are reserved for 
males and the other is reserved for females. Except dur- 
ing times of rest, these rooms are empty, as these higher- 
ranking members of the cult are busy tending to the af- 
fairs of the high priest. 




K8. The third floor of the temple is a single chamber 
reserved for Danacretes, High Priest of Zargon (see ap- 
pendix C). He recently ascended to the title of high priest 
after poisoning the previous high priestess, Zaranna, fol- 
lowing a disagreement on long-term goals for the cult. 
Danacretes is a foul-mouthed, ill-tempered devotee to 
the disgusting Zargon. A gluttonous man, he is feared 
by all and is likely the most powerful individual in the 
Lost City. Yet he, too, is but a puppet of a greater evil (see 
the Lower Catacombs in chapter 8 for details). Dana- 
cretes does not parley with intruders, and gleefully shouts 
an alarm while using spells to combat the characters. 
He starts with conjure ooze, and then employs offensive 
spells such as hold person, inflict wounds, and silence on 
enemy spellcasters. He reserves a slot for meld into stone 
to make good an escape. If he flees, he rallies the guards 
and cultists for a grand showdown in area K3, in which 
he attempts to lure the characters to their doom in the 
sacrificial pit. 




His chamber is lavishly decorated with wrought-iron 
furniture, including a bed and a table with chairs. Sev- 
eral comfortable divans stuffed with owlbear feathers 
complete the ensemble (800 gp each). The corner of the 
chamber is a closet holding clerical vestments and the 
like. Hidden in the closet is a secret door that requires a 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. 
This leads to area K9, the temple treasury. 




K9. This 10-foot-by-20-foot secret chamber contains the 
temple treasury. On the floor inside the secret door is a 




glyph of warding, triggered if stepped on without first ut- 
tering “In Zargon’s Honor” in Cynidicean. The glyph can 
be spotted with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investi- 
gation) check. The glyph casts guardian of faith to conjure 
a guardian that resembles Zargon. The DC for the spell’s 
Dexterity saving throw is 15. 




Zargon demands most of the material wealth collected by 
its faithful followers, but Danacretes and his predecessor 
have managed to stockpile some treasure here. Along the 
far wall are three locked chests (Danacretes has the keys). 
The locks can be picked with thieves’ tools and a success- 
ful DC 18 Dexterity check. The chests contain 9,500 sp; 
5,450 gp; and 110 pp, six orange topaz gemstones (500 
gp each), three gold ingots (750 gp each), anda platinum 
necklace (3,000 gp). 




AREA L - STRONGHOLD OF GORM 
(MAP 15) 




The Brotherhood of Gorm turned the houses in this area 
into a stronghold surrounded by stone walls. Inside the 
walled area is a large building with two stone towers. 




L1. The walls of the stronghold are patrolled at all times 
by six Brotherhood of Gorm (see appendix C). In addi- 
tion to longswords, each guard carries a heavy crossbow 
(+2 to hit, range 100/400 ft., 5 [1d10] piercing damage) 
and 10 bolts. At each corner of the stronghold is a stash 
of extra bolts plus four loaded heavy crossbows ready for 
use. 




L2. This hall is reserved for formal meetings and ses- 
sions of court wherein justice is handed down according 
to Gorm’s will. There is a large stone table with several 
chairs behind it as well as numerous wooden benches for 
onlookers. Mosaics on the back wall depict Gorm dis- 
pensing justice to his faithful and the royal. 




L3. This great hall has walls adorned with paintings de- 
picting Gorm’s faithful handing down judgment to the 
general populace. A pair of metal spiral staircases provide 
access to areas L7 in the upper levels of the towers. Hid- 
den in the floor is a secret trapdoor that leads to Gorm’s 
Gauntlet (see sidebar), a series of chambers used to test 
and train the faithful of Gorm. The door can be located 
with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
When one is judged to be worthy to attempt the Gaunt- 
let, there is an elaborate ceremony held in this chamber. 




L4. These two rooms are identical and serve as dormito- 
ries for the Brothers. Each room is large enough to house 
eight Brotherhood of Gorm (see appendix C), although 




except during times of rest these chambers are likely to 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City ¥ 




) MAP 15 Area L (Cie 
‘STRONGHOLD oF ‘sie 




7 




; “R JJ)))) Stairs 




; { 
cL 
Be SRR Sole 


CAPR 
ae a a 




Sannpe= me 




Be 
kel PL TY leo Tt feet | PT I 
REE RAS PERRET eee 5 
A a 
oe ee ee es HHH 12 
- hie] ht | : 
aUinee ‘so : 
RAP NRE RRR. 
Seen 480 RE SHR IRRER 
Pe ae bt k 
SEER ERE ERE 
BRERBREEREE RERECE 
SERRE Ee < 
saesaaeeses oy 




e THE Lost City 




LR IN NSE NST NOL ES AS NTI 




RN ATED 




eR RATER IERIE 




be empty. The walls are lined with bunk beds and each 
Brother has an unlocked chest to store personal effects. 
Each chest holds 2d6 gp worth of personal items and ran- 
dom coins. 




L5. This is a storeroom, piled high with crates and casks. 
The casks hold fresh water (unpoisoned), while the crates 
hold various dried foods and rations as well as mundane 
items. 




L6. This is a mess hall, complete with stone tables, bench- 
es, and a cooking hearth. 




L7. These two locations are identical and serve as housing 
for the Brothers. Each accommodates four Brotherhood 
of Gorm (see appendix C), and when not on an errand 
for the Grand Master, they can be found here resting, 
debating, or studying the teachings of Gorm. These initi- 
ates have shown promise in the ranks of the Brotherhood 
and hope to one day “run the Gauntlet” in the glory of 
Gorm, with the hopes of defeating Zargon. These broth- 
ers have eschewed all worldly effects save the clothes on 




their backs. 




L8. These two locations are identical, and feature upgrad- 
ed furnishings for comfort. Each room is an apartment 
for two Brotherhood of Gorm (see appendix C)—the 
favored of the Grand Master. The Brothers residing here 
are very close to “running the Gauntlet” and therefore 
are not bothered with trivial tasks. Their focus is on be- 
coming physically and mentally prepared to overcome 
the challenges of the Gauntlet and then eventually con- 
fronting Zargon. These Brothers, too, have eschewed all 
worldly effects save the clothes on their backs. 




L9. Kanadius, Grand Master of the Brotherhood of 
Gorm (see appendix C), resides in this chamber on the 
upper level of the East Tower. A plush carpet covers the 
floor, and a comfortable bed and sturdy table round out 
the furnishings. Kanadius spends very little time in his 
room, aside from resting. He can be found teaching and 
training the Brothers, either in the upper levels of the 
pyramid or somewhere in the city. Hidden under the car- 
pet is a key to area L10 that can be located with a success- 




ful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. 




L10. The door to this chamber is locked. Kanadius has 
hidden the key in area L9, or the lock can be picked with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. 
There are two stone chests here, both unlocked but 




trapped. 




Chest #1: Trapped with poison darts. The trap can be 
noticed with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. Deducing how to remove it requires a successful 




ORIGINAL ADV 




FT pS r ATE ATTRACT SS) 1 




NTURES REiNCaRn AT 




DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Disabling the 
trap requires thieves’ tools and a successful DC 17 Dex- 
terity check. If triggered, four darts are launched from 
the front of the chest, each with an attack bonus of +6 
and a range of 10 feet. A hit causes 1 piercing damage 
and the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour. The chest 




holds 4,400 sp. 




Chest #2: Trapped with two poison needles (each needs 
to be detected and disabled as separate actions). A Nys- 
tul’s magic aura spell (false aura) has also been placed on 
this chest. The needles can be noticed with a successful 
DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. Deducing how to 
remove each needle requires a successful DC 16 Intel- 
ligence (Investigation) check. Disabling the trap requires 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 17 Dexterity check. If 
triggered, the needle stabs with an attack bonus of +9. 
A hit causes 1 piercing damage and the target must suc- 
ceed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 7 
(2d6) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 hour. 
The chest holds 2,150 gp and a gold balance (1,500 gp) 




used in ceremonies in area L2. 




L11. This is a Test of Strength. On the stone floor is a 
message that reads “The true path leads to the righteous” 
in Cynidicean. There are two false doors, one on the east 
wall and one on the west wall. Each is rigged with a fall- 
ing block trap. The trap can be located with a success- 
ful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, and a method to 
disable each can be discovered with a successful DC 14 
Intelligence (Investigation) check. Each trap can be disa- 
bled with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity 
check. If triggered, a target standing in front of the door 
must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or be 
hit by the falling block and take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning 




damage. 




The real exit can be found by pushing a stone block to the 
north. This block can be discerned with a successful DC 
18 Wisdom (Perception) check. The block is on a set of 
rollers but still requires a DC 18 Strength check to move 
forward into a passage. Along the east wall is a secret door 
that is rather easy to detect, with a successful DC 13 Wis- 
dom (Perception) check, but to unlock the door the stone 
block must be pushed all the way to the north to trigger 
a pressure plate (as depicted on the map). 




L12. This is the Test of Balance and Ingenuity. The floor 
is covered with several feet of sand. In the middle of the 
chamber is a metal scale, with a pile of feathers on the 
northern plate and a stone block on the southern plate. 
On the back wall is a clue painted in red, in Cynidicean: 




a 




ED e THE LOST City 




RRS TP a TS 




ERE = 




pak & i \eWs\ GORM’S GAUNTLET 4 




A eee L\f 
> = = res La 




Ke 




Yr 
S Secret Door 4 
ZY 




YZ jod 
Be 
FY a 
ee) 
eC 
ee) 
ees 
i 




é Fire Curtain ie 




a: Le Gg } 
A TG ‘ 
Ma ast 
vil > VAIN 




NZ 




> 




“>, Hole in 
~ Ceiling 




ally 
| Wi y 
wl 




if 4 ; _ : 7 


ye eee 


War ae 


ie Mn 
mI 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




) 




GORM’S GAUNTLET (MAP I6) 




The Gauntlet of Gorm is a series of chambers under- 
neath the Stronghold of Gorm, comprising areas 
Ln through L17. They have been designed to test the 
Brothers to deem if they are a worthy challenge to 
face Zargon. If a Brother completes all the challenges 
they are rewarded with a powerful magic item to aid 
them in their task to defeat Zargon. This has occurred 
numerous times over the past decades, but each time 
Zargon prevailed and the magic item was subse- 
quently recovered and returned here. The Gauntlet is 
designed for one challenger at a time, but there is no 
rule that states a group can't run it together. If one or 
more characters become members of the Brotherhood 
they can eventually learn of the Gauntlet, but in order 
to “run the Guantlet” they must prove to be worthy in 
Gorm's eyes. This involves a short quest, such as infll- 
trating the Magi of Usimigaras’s stronghold to steal a 
book from the archive (area M4), or a successful foray 
into the cliff caves of the goblin king (area O). 




e__________# 




.! y 
~.) Sa 
—_ ak “ fe 
RUTTRMO We’ 
mah’) 
cA Si 
ds LES VE 
a) 
’ 
Vi 




| (ey i ft 




“Only one feather is needed to restore balance.” A secret 
door can be easily found on the north wall with a suc- 
cessful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check, but the tricky 
part is unlocking the door. To unlock the door, the scale 
must be balanced by placing 56 % pounds (the weight of 
the block) of counterweight on the northern plate. This 
can be done with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check, but a character holding down the plate can’t reach 
the secret door. The plates have perforated bottoms, so 
sand just flows through (although if a cloak or blanket 
covers a plate, sand can be piled on the plate). There are 
17 feathers, each from a cockatrice (worth 5 gp each), 
including one that is red. The easiest way to solve this 
conundrum is to dig through the sand. In the southeast 
corner is an iron feather that weighs 56 % pounds, per- 
fect to serve as a counterbalance. 




L13. This room is lined with exotic wood paneling. The 
room is the lair of a rust monster, that greedily seeks to 
feed on the any metal carried by the characters. In the 
round after the room is entered, four wood golems (see 
appendix B), concealed in the wood paneling, step out 
and close to attack. The wood golems attack until de- 
stroyed. The rust monster can be distracted with a suit- 
able source of metal (a weapon composed of metal or 
several iron spikes) but pursues creatures if the doors are 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST CiTYy 141 




not closed after they exit. Note that since the golems are 
composed of only wood, the rust monster ignores them. 
On the west wall is a secret door that can be found with a 




successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. 




L14. This chamber is heavily obscured by thick fog gen- 
erated from a guards and wards spell. Five pit traps are 
concealed on the floor. Finding a pit requires a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, but due to the heavy 
fog, characters have disadvantage on these checks. If de- 
tected, the pits can be avoided. They can be disabled with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 14 Dexterity check. 
Each pit is 20 feet deep, and a creature that triggers one 
must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or fall 
in, taking 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. Success indicates 
grabbing onto the ledge. The last pit (that stretches from 
wall to wall) has a stinking cloud spell that is triggered 
if a creature falls in. Just inside the room, a suggestion 
spell has been placed. All creatures who can understand 
Cynidicean must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving 
throw or “run straight ahead,” likely falling into a pit. If a 
character falls into a pit, the suggestion effect ends. When 
a pit trap is triggered, one of two magic mouth spells issue 
a cacophony of maniacal laughter. 




L15. The floor of this chamber, save for two 10-foot 
ledges along the north and south ends of the room, is 30 
feet lower. Falling to the floor causes 10 (3d6) bludgeon- 
ing damage. The floor is covered with a huge colony of 
green slime (see p. 105 of the Dungeon Masters Guide). 
A creature that falls to the floor can’t avoid the slime. At- 
tached to the ceiling via thick iron rings are three equidis- 
tant ropes, partially covered with more green slime. These 
can be used to swing across the recessed floor to exit the 
room. Jumping and grabbing onto a slime-free segment 
of the first rope requires a successful DC 17 Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check, swinging from one rope to the next— 
while avoiding the slime—requires a successful DC 15 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, and making the jump to 
the north ledge requires a final DC 17 Dexterity (Acro- 
batics) check. 




L16. A one-way stone door blocks passage to this large 
chamber. Once passed through, it automatically swings 
shut and locks, unless jammed open with something 
metal. Once closed it can only be opened by destroying 
it. Beyond is a chamber with a 20-foot-high ceiling. This 
room is the lair of a giant troll (see appendix B). This 
brute is not too bright, and is dumbfounded by the one- 
way door, and fears the curtain of fire that blocks the exit 
to area L17. The giant troll attacks with fury and fights 
to the death. Combat with the giant troll is designed to 




ORIGINAL ADVENTVU 




aaa 




RES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




mimic combat with the regenerative abilities of Zargon. 
The giant troll has a pile of mangy (worthless) furs for a 
bed in the southwest corner of the room. 




L17. A curtain of magical fire (similar to a wall of fire 
spell) blocks access to this niche. The wall can be removed 
via dispel magic (DC 14) or passed through. A creature 
passing through the fire must make a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage on a failure, 
or half as much damage on a success. Beyond is a plain 
20-foot-square chamber. On a stone pedestal in the cent- 
er of the room is a suit of +/ chain mail and an ornate 
brown leather belt adorned with metal studs. This is a be/t 
of stone giant strength. This latter magic item would be 
most useful in the task of removing Zargon’s horn. 




In the northeast corner of the room is a secret door that 
can be found with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. The door leads to a 10-foot shaft with a metal 
ladder leading to the surface of the underground cavern, 
some distance away from the stronghold of Gorm. 




Development. If the characters survive the Gauntlet and 
use this exit, they are greeted by Kanadius and a host 
of cheering Brotherhood of Gorm. Assuming they have 
the magic belt, the characters are encouraged to confront 
Zargon. Characters that run the Gauntlet should receive 
an award of 1,000 XP. 




AREA M —- STRONGHOLD OF USAMIGA- 
RAS (MAP 17) 




The Magi of Usamigaras converted the houses in this area 
into a stronghold. Their walled area has a large central 
building (the archive of their guarded secrets) and guard 
posts at each corner of the wall. 




M1. A stone double door gate blocks entrance to the 
compound beyond. The doors are always locked, and 
normally only unlocked for Magi. The characters can 
try to make a compelling argument to the guards on the 
wall. This likely requires a successful DC 20 Charisma 
(Deception or Persuasion) check. 




M2. The walls are patrolled regularly by four Magi of Us- 
amigaras (see appendix C), armed with light crossbows 
(+2 to hit, range 80/320 ft., 4 [1d8] piercing damage). 
The tops of the walls can be accessed from trapdoors at 
the corners of the stronghold that lead to a metal spiral 
staircase in each area M3. 




M3. These four locations are all similar and each one 
serves as the living quarters for six Magi of Usamigaras 
(see appendix C). Each location contains beds, storage 
for personal effects, and a small hearth to prepare and 




LMT 




MAP 17 z ‘Area M 




Ki S1RONGHOLD o OF ‘USAMIGARA A 




ee 
| easel ee: 


| | Ms fT | PLT TTT Msi Rae 
| COR 
Jn coh BECERRA) EE 
| | ||| 
ian Ee || | | i | 
| | a | | EEE 8 
inn EE ft] | i | 
1 | | | | Ean 8 


_| mt Zann 
See =se en 2: 
s| | oe | BEREn HY 


| | | ims [| | | | [| mst | A - 
|e pore 
ERR BERR 
Ae ee Beer eee . GRE 
“71 ea Kya LTT 
eS ~ 
ok LS) ee 




mat = 




wi 




TTL LS 




LAELIA LL ET LS EE LET TE TL TH HT PT TT TO TTT a , / 
sneer ADVENTURES REINCARMATED- ° THE LOST city > 4 




SE at TNS ES TN EE RST a 




take meals. A spiral staircase provides access to the top of 
the stronghold’s wall (area M2). At any given time, these 
areas are only half occupied, as the Magi are either patrol- 
ling the walls above, running errands, or in the archive 




(area M4) studying. 




M4. This main room is an archive, maintained by the 
Magi. Nearly all the wall space is covered with book- 
cases crammed with tomes, manuals, and texts, as well 
as scrolls on a variety of topics such as history, politics, 
and science. In addition, five more free-standing book- 
cases are likewise full of reference materials. The archive 
is the treasure of the Magi; the characters find no material 
wealth in this stronghold. 




MS. This small room is an office. Inside is a desk and sev- 
eral cabinets of small cards depicting information on the 
contents of the archive. Following 1d3 x 10 minutes of 
effort, a Magi can use this catalog of cards to find in area 
M4 any books on a particular topic. 




M6. Each of these six cubicles is identical. Each contains 
a sturdy desk and chair plus writing implements and a 
stash of paper. During the waking hours, these cubicles 
are all in use as various members of the Magi are research- 
ing or copying text for preservation. 




M7. This small chamber serves as the living quarters for 
Auriga Sirkinos, Chief Magi of Usamigaras (see appen- 
dix C). If not found in the Upper Pyramid locations, he 
is often here poring over ancient texts. The chamber has 
a bed, a comfortable chair, a small hearth, and a table. 
Under the table is a concealed trapdoor that leads to the 
lower chambers and a powerful ally (area M8). The door 
can be located with a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check. 




M8. Climbing down the metal ladder deposits the 
characters at a short corridor leading to a door. On the 
door, inscribed in Cynidicean, is the phrase “Call her 
thrice, and heed her advice.” Opening the door reveals 
the brightly lit, sweeping expanse of harsh desert, with 
a black obelisk in the distance. Mixed into the sand are 
thousands of humanoid bones from the victims of the 
guardian that lurks here. 




The room is under a powerful enchantment, tied to an 
extraplanar location—but the tie to that alien place is 
tenuous at best. It serves as the lair of a powerful ally: the 
great gynosphinx Ankhara. If the characters make the 
trek to the obelisk (which takes about 30 minutes despite 
covering a distance of only 40 feet), they can summon 
the protector by uttering her name three times while in 
front of the stone structure. Her name is hidden in the 




1 OE EA 




PST 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LO 




tT TT 




THE TEST OF KNOWLEDGE 




If the characters have joined the Magi of Usamigaras 
faction, they may eventually learn that the Magi all 
aspire to take the Test of Knowledge. Before the char- 
acters are allowed to enter area M8 and test their wor- 
thiness to the guardian there, they need to prove their 
worth to Auriga. This will likely require some type of 
quest, such as infiltrating the Temple of Zargon (area 
K) or traveling to the Eye of Zargon (area Q) and con- 
ducting research on the fire snakes that lair nearby. 
Auriga would also be very interested in an accurate 
map of the lower levels of the pyramid. Following a do- 
nation (of knowledge, not wealth) to the archives, the 
characters are permitted to enter area M8 and take the 
Test of Knowledge. 




OCP 
fanciful runes adorning the obelisk, which can be found 
with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check. Otherwise, her name is known by Auriga, and can 
be gifted to the characters if they perform a great task for 
the Magi (see the “Test of Knowledge” sidebar). 




Ankhara is an ancient being, serving the Magi long before 
the arrival of Zargon. Bound to her extraplanar lair, she 
can only provide aid in the form of knowledge—knowl- 
edge that the petty Cynidicean factions fail to heed. But, 
if the characters make their way to this chamber and im- 
press the sphinx with their knowledge of riddles (see the 
“Riddles” sidebar), she can impart important informa- 
tion such as: 




¢ Zargon’s weakness is tied to its horn. Only when it is 
removed can Zargon truly be defeated. 




¢ Zargon’s horn can be permanently destroyed by tossing 
it in the lava pool at the Eye of Zargon (area Q). 




¢ The Brotherhood of Gorm has a powerful relic that can 
aid in the defeat of Zargon. 




¢ The Warrior Maidens of Madarua have a powerful relic 
that can aid in the destruction of Zargon. 




* King Alexander and Queen Zenobia had a single heir: 
a son named Aleczander. To protect him from his many 
enemies he was secreted in a massive, faceted ruby— 
but the ruby was lost and now has become his prison. 




Developments. If the characters are here to find the lost 
heir, Aleczander, and they pass the test, Ankhara gives 
them a magic club and tells them: 




st city 




SS ee SR ESTEE TREE AER CEP POS TT 




ee RY 




“Strike the face of bronze, 
with this fanciful baton. 
Off to his verdant prison. 




Return him is your mission.” 




The weapon is a special +/ club. If used in area Q4 it can 
transport the characters to Aleczander’s hedge prison in- 
side a majestic fire ruby. 




——— 9 
RIDDLES 




The use of riddles in a roleplaying game is a classic 
trope, yet very difficult to pull off without frustrating 
the players. If the DM desires to use riddles as part of 
the social interaction encounter with Ankhara, the DM 
may wish to alter the encounter to suit the play style 
of the players. This could be a winner-takes-all contest 
of a single riddle. Or, it could be a series of riddles first 
asked by Ankhara and then asked by the characters. 
If this method is used, three riddles is about right for 
the duration of the contest. Or, the characters could 
be tasked with simply posing riddles to the sphinx. If 
the group is composed of “roll players” have them toss 
some dice in a series of Charisma, Wisdom, or Intelli- 
gence skill checks. Failure at the riddles could result in 
combat, loss of a magic item or valuable treasure, or 
Ankhara casting bestow curse (which replaces remove 
curse on her spell list). Or, Ankhara could just return to 
her lair, leaving the characters with nothing to show 
for their efforts. The key here is to create an enjoyable 
social interaction encounter that plays to the players’ 
strengths, not highlighting their weaknesses. 




El 




ETE AS ITY 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AREA N —- STRONGHOLD OF 
MADARUA (MAP 18) 




The Warrior Maidens of Madarua turned the 
houses in this area into their stronghold. This 
walled area houses a large tower. 




N1. The walls are patrolled by four Warrior 
Maidens of Madarua (see appendix C) armed 
with shortbows (+4 to hit, range 80/320 ft., 5 
[1d6 + 2] piercing damage). 




_ N2. The inner courtyard is used as a training 
ground. There is a 50% chance that 2d4 + 1 
Warrior Maidens of Madarua are training 
with weapons and unarmed combat under 
the watchful eye and constant tutelage of two 
Warrior Monks of Madarua (see appendix 
C for both). Along the south wall are several 
human-sized sparring mannequins, and along the north 
wall are several well-used targets for archery practice. 




N3. This entry hall leads to the rest of the tower. The 
north wall is covered with a majestic painting of the War- 
rior Maidens practicing weapon play. A pair of 8-foot-tall 
statues depicting Madarua are situated near the doors to 
the rest of the tower. Each statue is a caryatid column 
(see appendix B) with orders to attack any unescorted 
humanoids and prevent them from entering the doors. 
A secret trapdoor in the floor requires a successful DC 
22 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. It is locked, 
and Pandora (see area NG) carries the only key. The lock 
can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 
20 Dexterity check. The trapdoor leads to a shaft with a 
metal staircase providing access to areas N10 and N11. 
The Warrior Maidens gather in this chamber when one 
of their own attempts the challenge below. 




N4. This room was once used as a workshop to create 
guardians that served the Warrior Maidens (see areas N3 
and N10). The Warrior Maidens currently lack a crafts- 
woman to create more golems and constructs. The cham- 
ber contains a few stone tables, a box of humanoid bones 
(for the golem in area N10), masonry tools, and carpen- 
try equipment. The room is now used as storage, with 
several crates of dried foodstuffs and three large casks full 
of fresh water. 




N5. This area serves as a mess hall and meeting room. 
There are six stone tables and matching benches carved 
from giant mushroom stalks. Along the northwest wall is 
a massive hearth and cooking equipment. 




N6. These three locations are reserved for Pandora, 




Champion of Madarua and the six Warrior Monks 




BREST 




LOI MLE ARIE GE LNT LN TEESE, Fg 




of Madarua (see appendix C for both). Pandora’s pri- 
vate chamber is along the north wall, while three Warrior 
Monks dwell in each of the other two rooms. Pandora’s 
room contains a simple bed, table, two chairs, and a foot- 
locker of personal effects. Her room is immaculately clean 
and organized. The Warrior Monks’ rooms are similar and 
contain wood pallets as beds and prayer rugs. All personal 
effects of the Warrior Monks are carried on their person. 




N7. This large open area serves as communal living quar- 
ters for the Warrior Maidens of Madarua (see appen- 
dix C). Enough bunk beds line the walls for 30 maidens, 
along with matching footlockers. The footlockers each 
contain extra weapons (shortswords or daggers), personal 
effects, and 2d6 gp. There are typically only eight or fewer 
maidens here at any given time. The others are either pa- 
trolling the walls (area N1), training in the courtyard (area 
N2), or on an errand in the city or the Upper Pyramid. 




NB8. This level of the tower is a weapons storeroom. The 
walls hold racks of spears and shortswords (40 of each). 
A stone table is covered with supplies to craft arrows and 
bows. Nearby is a crate holding 200 arrows, and 18 short- 
bows are neatly stacked along one of the stairwell walls. 
Equally spaced along the outer walls are 16 arrow slits, 
which provide three-quarters cover. A metal ladder leads 
to a trapdoor in the ceiling providing access to the rooftop. 




N9. The rooftop has crenellations, which provide half 




cover. Stationed here at all times are two Warrior Maid- 




oe 
THE TEST OF BLADES 




If any characters have joined the Warrior Maidens of 
Madarua faction, they can eventually learn about the 
Test of Blades. Before they are allowed to attempt the 
test, they need to prove their worth to Pandora. This 
can be accomplished by demonstrating prowess with 
weapons and akeen understanding of tactics. Pandora 
likely sends the characters on a short quest—perhaps 
a foray into the goblin caves to defeat the goblin king 
(area O) ora mission to bring back proof of destroying 
a troll—to determine their worthiness. Another op- 
tion is for a single character to challenge Pandora to a 
one-on-one nonlethal duel. 




ess sy 
ens of Madarua (see appendix C). There are 12 shortbows 
stored here along with three barrels each holding 100 ar- 
rows. A wooden rack holds 24 javelins and 12 spears. 




N10. This underground chamber is designed to assess 
the worthiness of the maidens, in the Test of Blades (see 
sidebar). Those that pass are granted the right to wield 
a magic sword to face Zargon. Pandora and her trusted 
companions watch from the peepholes in area N11. 




Save for ledges along the north and south walls, the floor 
is 40 feet below the door. Falling causes 14 (4d6) bludg- 




eoning damage and results in failure of the test. Suspend- 




TTD 




r zs aaa 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SSS 




Pe 




FS RES AL SI IS 




i a 




BN Ni we mw ‘i i Wilke ay iif f } el | ‘ale a ) Wy 




© Trapdoor 




AY in Floor 
y y ®& Statue ~ 




Mg © Pillar 




oad 




\\ 




\ > 




istit as 




L 
Y 
4| & 
\Z 




\\ 
\ 




iW MUS 
+ \\ W | 




x a Wh SAVER mK 


a ; Se 
Na ys SS 
AL tii tito 




lS Panera ey 


E REE AOS A Us Wore evel $2 


es — ot siete 


saa ey 


y BNA Ve ya ee ae H) Pn 
VUE Y a 7 K Al aS aie VISSTe WEG a at \ 
, J YM AYN My hie | i] MEM nae Ml Mt in iran Wl ti | hon Ady al CENA \ iy I Sr th li ti he \ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




in Ceiling _ 
Trapdoor * 




ed from the 70-foot-high ceiling are nine 5-foot-diameter 
circular wooden platforms attached via chains. Although 
they swing freely, the platforms can be used to move 
across the room to the other ledge. It requires a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to jump from one 
platform to another and hold on. Combat on a platform 
requires a successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw each 
turn, with failure indicating the combatant has fallen off. 
If a creature is not using one hand to hold on, it has dis- 
advantage on this saving throw. 




Standing on the north ledge awaiting a worthy combat- 
ant is a six-armed bone golem (see appendix B). Its true 
form is concealed by an illusion of a marilith demon (see 
Monster Manual, p. 61), simply a more pleasing image 
for the Warrior Maidens to behold. If interacted with, 
a creature can use an action to see through the illusion 
with a successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check. The bone golem waits for a combatant to reach 
its ledge, at which point it engages in melee with its six 
weapons. If the combatant hangs back or uses ranged at- 
tacks, the bone golem jumps from platform to platform 
to close and enter melee. It always uses one hand to hold 
on (reducing its number of attacks to five). It fights until 
destroyed or a combatant falls to floor, ending the test. 




This unique bone golem has the following changes, which 
increase its challenge rating to 3 (700 XP): 




¢ Its AC is 19 (natural armor). 
¢ Its Dexterity score is 14 (+2). 




° It makes six longsword attacks when taking the Multiat- 
tack action. 




* One of its swords is a +2 longsword (+6 to hit, 8 [1d8 + 
4] slashing damage). 




¢ One of its swords is a longsword of wounding. 




Development. If a combatant wins the test by defeat- 
ing the bone golem, she is awarded one of the magic 
longswords and is then encouraged to confront Zargon. 




ENCOUNTERS IN THE WASTELAND 




Assuming the characters agree, they are accompanied by 
Pandora and six of her best maidens. Award the charac- 
ters 1,200 XP for overcoming the Test of Blades. 




N11. This is a secret viewing chamber. The secret door 
leading here can be discovered with a successful DC 18 
Wisdom (Perception) check. Five peepholes line the wall 




that provide a view into area N10. 




AREA O — GOBLIN CLIFF-DWELLINGS 




On the far shore of the lake, sheer cliffs rise to a pla- 
teau. In the cliffs are caves where goblins and hobgoblins 
live. The goblins and hobgoblins usually climb down to 
them by ladder, though some caves can be reached by 
handholds cut into the rock. In a pinch, a conveyer belt 
contraption used to deliver water from the lake below can 
be used to scale the cliffs. This would be a perfect route 
for a band of adventurers wishing to stealthily infiltrate 
the caves. In addition, many of the caves are connected 
by tunnels within the cliffs. The lower cave-dwellings also 
house thouls, ogres, and trolls. Additional information 
and detailed encounters for this location can be found in 




chapter 7. 
AREA P — WASTELAND 




The top of the plateau is a wilderness of giant stalagmites*, 
stalactites*, columns, strange rock formations, geysers, 
and bubbling pools of mud. For every 10 minutes that 
the characters travel through or explore this area, there is 
a 1 in G chance of a random encounter. If so, roll 1d12 
and consult the table below. 




If a natural hazard is indicated the characters have blun- 
dered too close to a steam vent, mud pot, or geyser of hot 
water. Choose a random character to make a DC 13 Dex- 
terity saving throw. Failure indicates they stumbled into 
one of these hazards, taking 7 (2d6) fire damage. Success 
indicates half as much damage as the hazard was partially 
avoided. 




D12 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


1-4 Natural hazard NA NA NA See below 
5-6 Fire snakes 1d3 200 MM, p. 265 


7-8 Steam mephits 1d4 50 MM, p. 217 


S| Mud mephits 1d4+1 50 MM, p. 216 


10-11 Goblins 3d4 50 MM, p. 166 


12 Necrotic ooze 1 450 Appendix B 




sieeutee ” 1. i NR a spare pete GET aE Pa aR NCEA es arr RT UST PROT TEST ESE LES RLS EI ey PT aah TRG NSLP EEN eT NAT A 
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




a ANE 2 hE OSI AH RR PTL 




SASSI PT SL Mey om TU Ag NR RT 




AREA Q - THE EYE OF ZARGON (MAP 19) 




In the midst of the Wasteland is a crater and lava pit 
known as the “Eye of Zargon” because the crater glows a 
hellish red, just as Zargon’s single eye. An efreeti named 
Nizaar al-Rasul lords over this forsaken place from a 
blackened fortress floating above the lava. The approach 
to the crater is dangerous due to the natural hazards and 
the efreeti’s loyal guards. 




Q1. The area surrounding the crater is even more dan- 
gerous than the Wasteland. There is a safe path among 
the geysers of hot water, steam vents, and mud pots. It 
requires four successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) checks 
to negotiate the hazardous terrain. Each failure results in 
1d3 random characters being exposed to a hazard. Have 
each affected character make a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw; on a failure they take 10 (3d6) fire damage and are 
blinded for 1 hour. 




In addition to those natural hazards, the path is the habi- 
tat for numerous fire snakes that enjoy the warmth of the 
crater. The characters encounter two clutches of 1d4 + 2 
fire snakes, always looking for a fresh meal. The fire snakes 




fight to the death. 




Q2. A clear path winds its way up the slope to the crater’s 
edge. This path is guarded by two salamanders loyal to 
Nizaar. The salamanders prevent the characters from us- 
ing the path, attacking if needed. However, if the char- 




URES REINCARMATED e THE LOST 




acters speak Ignan, the guards can be bribed with at least 
1,000 gp worth of red or orange gemstones, or a durable 
magic item that can withstand heat. Any other bribe re- 
quires a successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If 
the bribe is accepted, the salamanders lead the characters 
to area Q3 and avoid the guardian there. 




Q3. Overlooking the lava lake 100 feet below is a black- 
ened stone ledge that extends about 15 feet over the edge. 
This was once used for sacrifices to the “fire gods” ages 
ago, but that practice has tapered off. Floating about 60 
feet above the lava is a scorched miniature castle. The 
characters need to devise a method to get to the structure. 
The heat from the lava lake is oppressive here, as are the 
noxious gases. A character takes 1 fire damage at the start 
of each turn spent here. Every 10 minutes, a character 
needs to succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw 
or become poisoned for 1 hour. 




A fire elemental lairs below the stone ledge. Unless the 
characters are escorted here by the salamanders from area 
Q2, they need to defeat this guardian to gain access to the 
fortress. 




Q4. The fortress is a modified Daern’ instant fortress with 
a permanent /evitate effect on it. It is a roughly 20-foot- 
square structure composed of scorched metal. A creature 
takes 2 (1d4) fire damage at the start of each turn spent 
touching the fortress, or inside of it while it floats above 
the lava lake. The ruler 
of the fortress, an efreeti 
named Nizaar, can control 
the /evitate effect and knows 
the command words to ac- 
tivate and deactivate it. He 
is served to by six magma 
mephits that flit around, 
tending to his every need. 
This mostly equates to mas- 
saging his feet and other 
such menial tasks. 




There is a magically locked 
trapdoor on the roof that 
opens by a command word 
issued by Nizaar, or with a 
knock or dispel magic spell. 
The efreeti is likely aware 
of the characters’ intrusion 
and is willing to parley be- 
fore inviting them inside. 




be ss} AT LS HT 




city < 




PIR L LG III OLED FELICE ET IT TINGED 




1) MAP 19 AreaQ’ fj. 
., THE EYE OF he = 
,, ZARGON ¥ 




BEE Mane ree 
—F ERR EE pondcy 
BeELENSS 


ae 




ie 




ay | = 
oh eS 


A eI 
* 
~ 




J 




t | 
aie 




el Se cne 
; ny eka INS 




= 
ee 
| 
ks 
A 


‘ 




KF 




¥ y 


Ela 84 ~ 


| Be Toa 
gi 




a Saige 




ee Bp 




C Dg 




This is merely a stalling tactic as he assumes the characters 
are not immune to fire damage or are using temporary mag- 
ic to avoid the effects of the lava. Inside is a single, roughly 
20-foot-square chamber with a 30-foot-high ceiling. The 
chamber contains a black iron throne and a massive bronze 
gong on a metal stand. The gong depicts Zargon’s head, 
meticulously pounded into the metal surface. 




Nizaar is a barrel-chested genie wielding a massive scimi- 
tar. He sports one horn on the left side of his bald head, 
with the other three being ground smooth. The single 
horn is topped with a gold cap set with rubies (3,000 gp). 
This should be a dead giveaway that he is loyal to Zargon. 
He has a pact with Zargon to prevent anyone from de- 
stroying the monster’s horn in the lava; the pact lasts an- 




other 555 years. 




Should the characters attempt to toss Zargon’s horn into 
the lava, the fire elemental in area Q3 or the magma me- 
phits here quickly retrieve it before it is destroyed, bring- 
ing it to their master. If the party is not here to destroy the 
horn, after some casual banter Nizaar politely asks them 
to leave. He attacks if they refuse. 




Nizaar wears a jagged fire ruby on a thick black chain 
around his muscular neck. The gem is worth 10,000 gp, 
and if examined carefully with a successful DC 22 Intel- 
ligence (Investigation) check, a tiny humanoid figure can 
be spied, captured in the facets of the gem. This is Alec- 
zander, the last true heir to Cynidicea. If the magic club 
from area M8 is struck on the gong (the “bronze face”), 
the gem is shattered and all within 100 feet are transport- 




ed to Aleczander’s hedge prison—from which he can now 




possibly be freed. Note that the transported group might 
include the efreeti and/or his mephits. Nizaar is aware of 
the importance of the ruby and is biding his time to use it 
to bargain for his freedom, hoping it’s good to shave a few 
centuries off the length of his forced servitude. 




Development. If the characters recover the fire ruby and 
use the club to access the Verdant Prison, the action shifts 
to area U. 




AREA R —- ENTRANCE TO THE LOWER 
CATACOMBS (MAP 20) 




The entrance to the Lower Catacombs (see chapter 8) is 
sealed shut by a huge stone slab. This slab can be lifted only 
by a special winch, which uses pulleys and heavy chains 
powered by unfortunate slaves under the frequent lashes 
of hobgoblin taskmasters. The entrance, slab, and winch 
are housed in this special building. The underground city 
was built only in the Upper Catacombs because the Lower 
Catacombs hold terrible monsters and a route to the Un- 
derdark. This route is heavily guarded because a greater 
evil lurks below, an evil allied with Zargon and its loyal 
fanatics, that helps hold sway over the whole population 
of Cynidicea. 




R1. The streets and alleys around this windowless stone 
building are heavily patrolled. Two squads of eight hob- 
goblins are within 200 feet of the structure. Each carries a 
horn to summon the other squad (and alert the guards in 
area R2) in case of conflict. These humanoids are armed 
with longswords and heavy crossbows (+3 to hit, range 
100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] piercing damage) instead of 
longbows. Each carries 2d6 gp. 




' The hobgoblins use the pillars as 
f cover and pin down attackers while 
awaiting reinforcements, or they 
attempt to fall back to the front of 
= the building. Should combat hap- 
# pen near the front of the building, 
= the guards in area R2 shoot cross- 
bow bolts through the arrow slits as 
support fire. 




8 R2. The main door is locked and 
barred and none of the exterior 
hobgoblins has the key (the lead- 
er here has it). The interior of the 
; structure is a single 60-foot-square 
FE room with a 30-foot-high ceiling. 




\4 el y 
. ph 
ph wy. |@}-——— e+ 4 
A RARER SERRE ARE 
Cay Bi 
ee | td gm sn 
PTT TTT Ted tT TT 
PTET TTT ry yg ieey TT | | W 
PCCEELLLULA Lie LLL PT Tver 
SRE en se KAR 
BERR EERMNE SERRA CREE 




Y 
My 
agit i Tt itty 




. 
= 
wv 




F 
> 
fo 
oT i 
we = 
SA, 
¢ 




7; 
lw 
,, 
Ls, 
Y ae 
Vy 
he 
Z 




a | Saaaeee 




Y ie “Lipo “Zs ty, Yi 




There is a 20-foot-high balcony above the door with a 
short wall that provides half cover. The west wall is lined 
with four arrow slits which provide three-quarters cov- 
er and allow attacks on the exterior of the front of the 
building. On this balcony are six additional loaded heavy 
crossbows and a barrel holding 120 bolts. Six hobgoblin 
guards are stationed here at all times. 




The center of the room is dominated by a metal tripod 
and pulley system. It is positioned over a 15-foot-square 
stone slab covering the entrance to the Lower Catacombs. 
The slab can be removed using the elaborate winch, which 
is powered by a wheel turned by up to 10 slaves. The 
slaves are manacled to the east wall when not “working.” 
A 10-foot-square “cage” of fungus stalks can be raised and 
lowered down the shaft to provide access to the catacombs 
below. This lowering (or raising) process takes 2 minutes 
when powered by a full complement of slaves. Currently 




10 slaves are imprisoned on the walls. These are six Cyn- 
idicean commoners (see appendix C) and four goblins. 
The bugbear (see below) has the keys to their manacles, 
or they can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful 
DC 17 Dexterity check or burst with a successful DC 23 
Strength check. 




gy 




oricinaL ADVENTURES REincaRnateD e THE Lost city 




i a ua ie at 




Z : 
yp 
— im A 
a V2 “tn 
STE. a 




ide 




Eight more hobgoblins and a bugbear leader are sta- 
tioned here at all times. They pass their time mistreating 
the slaves and partaking in games of chance. They are 
quick to take up arms and defend the access to the cata- 
combs. Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp and the bugbear 
carries 11 ep and 22 gp. 




Developments. If the characters seem to have the upper 
hand, the bugbear is willing to offer up the slaves to bar- 
gain for his freedom. If allowed to depart, he returns to 
the building in about an hour with 20 more hobgoblins 
and three additional bugbears to secure the area. 




If the characters descend the shaft to explore the Lower 
Catacombs, refer to chapter 8. 




AREA S —- ENTRANCE TO THE PYRAMID 




Adventurers who enter the underground city from the 
pyramid (area 50 on Tier 5) arrive here. All the factions 
have their own secret entrances to the pyramid (not shown 
on the map), and there is another entrance through a gi- 
ant ant nest (area T). 




SAE ES STS Se see ae 




ERNE LEER SILI I TERE 




AREA T - GIANT ANT NEST (MAP 21) 
On Tier 5 of the Upper Pyramid, at the DM’s option, there 




can be an entrance to a giant ant colony. If the characters 
explore the colony’s nest, they can discover another route 
to the Lost City that is not used by any of the factions. 




The tunnels of the giant ant colony are about 3 feet wide 
and 3 feet high. Thus, bipedal Medium humanoids need 
to travel on all fours to pass through these passages. This is 
effectively squeezing, so movement costs are 1 foot more 
for each foot of movement. Small humanoids or the giant 
ants are not hindered by this, although all combatants in 
a passage make attack rolls, Dexterity saving throws, and 
Dexterity checks with disadvantage. The keyed encounter 
areas are all 5 to 7 feet in height, so Medium creatures can 
move and attack normally at these locations. 




T1. There are numerous locations like this chamber 
throughout both the upper and middle levels of the colo- 
ny. Each is roughly 10 to 15 feet in diameter with one or 
more entrances and exits. Each time the characters enter 
one of these chambers, they encounter 1d4 + 2 giant ants 
(see appendix B). These are the typical worker ants that 
collect food for the colony and tend to the fungus rooms. 
There is a 25% chance of encountering 1d2 giant soldier 
ants (see appendix B) here as well. All ants fight to the 
death. 




T2. These three slightly larger chambers are identical, each 
being about 20 to 30 feet in shape. The floor here is cov- 
ered in dark, rich soil that was moved here and tended to 
by the worker ants. Growing in the soil are plump, pasty 
white mushrooms and various other fungi. These fungi 
are carefully culled and used to feed the colony. At any 
time 2d4 + 2 giant ants (see appendix B) are here tending 
the fungi. 


T3. Each of these five 15-foot-diameter chambers con- 
tains either a tunnel in the floor leading to a lower level 
or a tunnel in the ceiling leading to an upper level of the 
colony. The southwest chamber on the middle level has a 
tunnel that leads to the lower level. Each of these cham- 
bers is guarded by four giant soldier ants (see appendix 
B) that fight to the death. Climbing from level to level 
requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. 




T4. The lower level is essentially one huge cavern with 
ceilings typically 10 to 15 feet high. The shaded interior 
walls are constructed from giant ant carapaces cemented 
together with secreted goo that has since hardened. These 
walls typically reach the ceiling (but some end a few feet 




from it) and are easy to climb, requiring only a successful 
DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. A carapace wall can 
be destroyed with weapons. Assume a 10-foot-by-10-foot 
section has AC 10, 15 hit points, and immunity to poison 
and psychic damage. 




This level is “patrolled” by seven giant soldier ants (see 
appendix B). At any given time, a group of 2d6 + 2 gi- 
ant ants (see appendix B) are moving about from the egg 
chamber (area TG) and the upper levels. 




T5. A pair of giant wolf spiders have created a lair along 
the southern wall of this chamber due to the abundant 
food source. The giant ants simply avoid this area, but 
eventually the giant soldier ants will deal with this infesta- 
tion. The giant wolf spiders are concealed under debris 
and giant ant carapaces. If this area is explored, the spiders 
burst from hiding to attack. If the giant wolf spiders win 
a Stealth vs. Perception contest, they attack with surprise. 




T6. The southeast corner of this level serves as the incuba- 
tion area for the colony’s eggs. Over 300 eggs are stored 
here, each about the size of a large melon. At any time, 
there are 1d4 + 1 giant ants (see appendix B) here care- 
fully tending to the eggs. 




T7. In the northeast corner of this cavern is the nearly 
immobile giant queen ant (see appendix B). The queen 
has a 12-foot-long bloated body. She is tended to by six 
giant ants at all times, along with four giant soldier ants 
(see appendix B for both). Scattered around the queen’s 
bulk are a few random bits of treasure, including 66 gp, 
three small pieces of purple amethyst (100 gp each), and 
a silver ring set with a majestic star sapphire. This is a ring 
of shooting stars, although the command words to activate 
its various powers need to be researched. 




Development. If the queen is attacked, she releases a 
pheromone that causes the giant ants in the colony to has- 
ten to the egg chamber (area T6) and remove the eggs to 
a safe location—likely somewhere on Tier 5 of the Upper 
Pyramid. In addition, 12 giant soldier ants (see appendix 
B) hasten to the queen’s aid, arriving in waves of three 
every other round. These soldiers fight to the death. 




T8. In the upper northeast corner of the cavern is a pas- 
sage that winds its way eventually to the Lost City. This 
passage is about 5 feet high on average and travels ap- 
proximately 1,500 feet before arriving in the cavern that 
houses the city (map 12, area T). If the characters use this 
route to access the cavern, they have at least one encoun- 
ter with a group of 10 giant ants accompanied by four 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 4 




[Pp 




y ; AD SU | MR YANG) Boj NYS NZS NY, 
ARAL i BW KG VE a =I <a S555 /<S> SS 
ENA ; QS \3 NS IBZ 
Vive \S 




F 4 , L b, = ~ 4 / \ . é Re W ‘S 
‘ VP \ N=), 7 5 - ae Vip WY 
MAP 21 AreaT SSG INNING ano ot 
. ye yal S\N WN 4 
_ 




¥ ZZ "MO yyyie BZ 




in / ii, 
SEK 
fi Psy, by j 
Me 




ZS Ii 
NSS 




« [Sihvalrs 
* N ZA ~ Wis BS 
Nj 




ZS ANNs 
aN = 
AN AINY 
Cs 


ZA 




<<, “i 
PAS 




SG 
CALS 




Ny Y, ——] is 
Y NS 
A 




iw es et wes 
Y aaa dee 
wy, - a A Wie, te 




Mig Ss 
: 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




giant solider ants (see appendix B for both). This group 
is returning from foraging in the fungal forest (area F) and 
may be dragging a few goblin bodies for use as compost. 




AREA U-THE VERDANT PRISON (MAP 22) 




This location is not depicted on map 12, as it is a demi- 
plane prison created to hide the lone heir to the Cynid- 
icean empire. If the characters struck the “face of bronze” 
(the bronze gong in area Q4) the fire ruby is destroyed, and 
the party is magically transported to area U1. The only way 
to return is to recover the Verdant Heart and likewise shat- 
ter it—but if the characters don’t rescue the Cynidicean 
heir first, he is doomed to imprisonment for all eternity. 




The walls of the prison are composed of thick, twisted 
hedges. These hedges are impassable. Pushing into them 
deposits the creature right back where they started. Al- 
though there is no ceiling a creature using magical flight 
or levitation never reaches the top for an aerial view. The 
area overhead is bathed in pleasant sunlight, although the 
hedge walls throw a gloaming overcast which is consid- 
ered dim light. The ground is soft, fertile soil to a depth of 
10 feet. Below that is solid stone. 




Magic is slightly altered in the Verdant Prison. First, time 
does not pass for mortal beings trapped here. They don’t 




require food or water and breathable air never runs out. 




oe ______— 
VERDANT HAZARDS 




There are two hazards unique to the Verdant Prison. 




Grab Grass. This is vibrant green grass, standing about 
2 feet high. A typical patch is 20 feet by 20 feet, although 
larger patches are possible. Grab grass is considered dif- 
ficult terrain. When a creature enters a patch the grass 
attempts to grab and restrain it. When entering a patch 
of grab grass or starting its turn in a patch, a creature 
must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be- 
come restrained (escape DC 13). 




Slit Grass. The leaf blades of slit grass are a pale green 
to light brown and about 1 foot high. Passing through 
slit grass is considered difficult terrain for non-plant 
creatures. A creature entering, or starting its turn in, a 
patch of slit grass must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw; failure indicates the creature takes 4 (1d6 + 1) 
slashing damage. A creature moving more than 10 feet 
per turn has disadvantage on the saving throw. 




eS: 2:2080N—"w 




Second, conjuration magic (either spells or magic items) 
does not function in the Verdant Prison. These spells 
simply fail, although spell slots or item charges are still 
expended. Finally, magical fire is suppressed in the Ver- 
dant Prison. All saving throws against magical fire effects 
are made with advantage, and all magical fire damage is 
halved. Normal fire sources are not affected. 




U1. Any creatures transported to the Verdant Prison are 
deposited here at the entrance, directly in front of a stone 
fountain overrun with lush vine growth. Water trickles 
from an unknown source on the hedge wall and tumbles 
over a stone structure of four nixies frolicking. The water 
is cool, refreshing, and magical. A living creature drink- 
ing from the fountain is healed 5 (1d10) hit points. A 
particular creature can only benefit from the restorative 
powers of the water once. If removed from the font, the 
water loses its restorative powers after 1 minute. Any who 
drink from the fountain also hear the following, in their 
native language, but in the melodious voices of the nixies: 




“Sunder the Verdant Heart, 
To go back to where you start” 




U2. A 40-foot section of this corridor is covered with grab 
grass (see sidebar). If one or more creatures become re- 
strained in this hazard, four needle blights step out of the 
walls and attack. They hang back and pepper the targets 
with needles, preferably restrained ones. If the characters 
enter melee, the needle blights use an action to meld back 
into the hedge walls. 




U3. At the end of this 50-foot corridor is a stone altar 
covered with decaying vines and vegetation. If the veg- 
etation is cleared away, it is revealed that the surface of 
the altar is carved, depicting several frolicking nixies tend- 
ing to the tresses of their queen with various brushes and 
combs. The 40-foot corridor leading to the altar is covered 
with a spike growth effect. The hazardous terrain can be 
discerned with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The area is considered difficult terrain and when 
a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 5 (2d4) 
piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels. 




Behind the altar is a bundle of plain wooden planks, 
about 2 feet long and 1 foot in diameter. This is easily 
found if the vegetation is cleared away. Otherwise, a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check is required 
to locate it among the rampant growth. This is a folding 
bridge (see appendix A). A trio of command words (“nu- 
fulr,” “derbig,” and “rollluup”) are faintly etched onto the 




et STEEE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




mre 




fr 
fn 


Yy 156)¢ 
\ f 




Wall of -. te 
Thorns Y 




€ 
See 




Fawn a 




\ 




Na? 
s 




. 
Sc aa etn eo nr sen watts 




piso TREES a rN LO 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




a 




(RRMA 




ce emt ae 




ea RRL E HS A OT 




imonscarets oes 




Began: 




RE Ny 




i a= = - 
We 




A 




“ QN 
fe AN 




. 
N 
\ 




SRE, 
‘ 
+ 




. —. 
Ps fs ate 
BN Nw Fs ere ~S 
= 




WZ XN 




SN A 




edge of one plank, which require a successful DC 16 In- 
telligence (Investigation) check to spot. The first forms a 
rope bridge, the second forms a slatted bridge, and the 
third deactivates either type of bridge. 




U4. An 80-foot-long, 20-foot-wide patch of slit grass 
(see sidebar) grows in this wide meadow-like hallway. 
Shortly after the characters enter the hall, the verdant 
minotaur (see appendix B) steps out of the east hedge 
wall. He growls a challenge and charges a target, using 
its Reckless trait. The verdant minotaur is merely toying 
with the characters, learning about their tactics. He fights 
until reduced to 30 hit points or fewer, and then he flees 
back to his lair (area U7), allowing time to regenerate his 
wounds. 




US. At the end of this corridor is a statue of a beautiful el- 
ven maiden (but see the sidebar “The Many Guises of the 
Earth Mother”) that is overgrown with a noxious tangle of 
sickly pale green vines. A creature that touches the vines 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or 
become poisoned for 6 hours from envenomed thorns on 
the vines. Clearing the vines away reveals a passage carved 
into the base of the statue, written in Sylvan: “You may 
inquire, for what you require.” 




Once per year, if a character prays at the statue and asks 
for help, that character is bestowed a commune with nature 
spell that pertains only to the Verdant Prison. The three 
bits of knowledge gained can be about the guardians, haz- 
ards, or magical effects of the prison. If they ask how to 
escape give them the message in area U1. If they ask how 
to find Aleczander, the reply is: 




“To find the heir, 
erst find his lair. 
Then to get there, 
stroke the queen’ hair.” 




@e——_______ 2 
THE MANY GUISES OF THE EARTH 




MOTHER, 




The default shape of the statue is an elven maiden. 
However, the statue should depict a goddess (or god) 
of nature used in the DM's campaign. Therefore, the 
DM should be prepared ahead of time for an alternate 
description of the statue if needed. A successful DC 16 
Intelligence (Investigation or Religion) check reveals 
which deity is depicted. 




GI 




Sah: 




U6. At the end of this corridor is a statue of a beautiful 
water nymph, with flowing tresses of hair covering her in 
all the right places. This statue depicts the Naiad Queen. 
If a creature strokes the statue’s hair, the statue briefly ani- 
mates to embrace the creature. The next instant, the crea- 
ture is transported to area U7. This is the only way to get 
to that location. 




U7. This is the verdant minotaur’s lair and he can always 
be found here. In the southwest corner of the room is 
a trickling fountain. The centerpiece is a smooth marble 
carving of the Naiad Queen, her arms outstretched as if 
awaiting an embrace. Ifa living creature enters the waters 
and “embraces” the statue, it is transported (with wet feet) 




back to area UG. 




Once all the characters arrive at this location, the ver- 
dant minotaur (see appendix B) steps out of area U8, 
the wall of thorns to the north. He then attacks, prefer- 
ring to Charge whenever possible. He uses his lair actions 
(see sidebar) during the combat as appropriate. He fights 
until reduced to 10 hit points or fewer before fleeing via 
melding into a nearby hedge wall. He makes his final 
stand in the hallway beyond the wall of thorns, hopefully 




after another period of regeneration. 




A secret door in the southeast corner of the room can be 
located with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The door slides to the left, but only after a pressure 
plate is triggered on the wall to the left. It takes a successful 
DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check to determine the 
trigger. Beyond is a 10-foot-square chamber with a stone 
pedestal. Resting on the pedestal is a gold chalice (worth 
5,000 gp), that on command (“illuminous”) glows various 
shades of red, orange, yellow, and purple for 1 minute. 




U8. This 20-foot-by-20-foot section of the corridor is 
blocked by a permanent wall of thorns. It can be removed 
via dispel magic (DC 16) or passed through. If the folding 
bridge (from area U7) is activated near the wall, it arches 
over the thorns and provides safe passage. 




U9. Each of these identical corridors is covered with 
rampant vegetative growth. The growth conceals two pit 
traps. The pits are open but detecting them still requires a 
successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. If actively 
looking for additional pits, a character has advantage on 
this check. Each pit is 20 feet deep and falling in causes 
7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. A character that makes a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw manages to grab 
onto the ledge of the pit, preventing a fall. The bottom of 
each pit is lined with wooden spikes covered with poison. 




fr : 




rn z ———— FRE ASSET TRIN a RASTA LL TN 4 X 
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City , 8K 




ISH RTE 0 Em ere ean) 




ee W 
VERDANT MinoTaAuR Lair ACTionsS 




While in the Verdant Prison, the verdant minotaur can 
invoke the ambient magic of the prison to take various 
lair actions. On initiative count 20 (losing all ties), the 
verdant minotaur takes a lair action to cause one of the 
following effects: 




- As a bonus action, the verdant minotaur melds into a 
nearby hedge wall, as pera meld into stone spell. 




- The verdant minotaur summons a magical giant bat 
that attempts to steal an object from a character. The 
batis Large and has a flying speed of 60 feet, a Dexter- 
ity score of 22 (+6), and immunity to all damage types. 
It succeeds in stealing an object if it wins a Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) contest with the creature holding the ob- 
ject. It can swipe an object weighing up to 10 pounds, 
and if available it prefers to swipe the black key (see 
area U9), the chalice (see area U7), or the folding bridge 
(see area U3). Otherwise, it grabs a melee weapon or 
perhaps a spellbook or wand from a random charac- 
ter. The item is deposited in a random location of the 
hedge maze, with areas U3, Us, U6, and U9 being pre- 
ferred. (Roll a d12, rerolling any 12's; the number rolled 
is the area where the item is dropped.) The magical gi- 
ant bat can be summoned up totwice per day. 




- The verdant minotaur creates a 10-foot patch of grab 
grass (see sidebar) that appears anywhere within 60 
feet of him. The patch persists for1 hour. 




- The verdant minotaur creates a 10-foot patch of slit 
grass (see sidebar) that appears anywhere within 60 
feet of him. The patch persists for 1 hour. 




-If a target is restrained by a patch of grab grass or is 
moving through a patch of slit grass, the verdant mi- 
notaur can cause the hazard to develop poisoned 
thorns. During each turn restrained by the grab grass 
or taking damage from the slit grass, the target must 
make a successful DC 14 Constitution saving throw or 
suffer 3 (1d6) poison damage and gain the poisoned 
condition for1 hour. 




——— eg 
The spikes cause an additional 5 (2d4) piercing damage, 




and the victim needs to make a successful DC 15 Consti- 
tution saving throw or suffer 10 (3d6) poison damage and 
gain the poisoned condition for 3 hours. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES 




SS 




At the end of the corridor, around the corner, is a sim- 
ple metal pedestal. On one of the pedestals rests a large 
black iron skeleton key. The metal pedestal is actually a 
powerful magnet, holding the key fast to its surface. It 
requires a successful DC 17 Strength check to remove the 
key from the magnet. The DM can randomly determine 
which pedestal the key is on, or arbitrarily decide it is on 
the second pedestal discovered. The key unlocks the port- 
cullis at area U10. 




U10. A massive black portcullis blocks access to area U11 
beyond. The portcullis is covered with thick (but harm- 
less) vine growth, obscuring the chamber beyond. If the 
black metal key from area U9 is simply touched to one of 
the bars, the vines magically retract and the massive gate 
opens on its own. Otherwise, dispel magic, knock, or brute 
strength is needed to open this portcullis. Lifting or bend- 
ing the bars requires a successful DC 25 Strength check. 




U11. Beyond the black portcullis is a 60-foot-wide, 
40-foot-deep chamber. The floor is covered with a tangle 
of grasses and weeds, which is considered difficult terrain. 
Along the opposite wall is a stone altar, overgrown with a 
tangle of decaying vines. Resting on the altar in an eternal 
slumber is the last true heir to Cynidicea: Prince Alec- 
zander. He is a young adult Cynidicean commoner (see 




YiLiy Ys 




UGYLIL4) 
ty Yj, 
Ye 




- AY TF 
Catt 
} Q — 


Z 




appendix C) with shoulder-length white hair with a dis- 
tinct birthmark on his right forearm recognizable by Cyn- 
idicean scholars. He is entwined by the vines and growth, 
and placed on his chest is a massive emerald, crudely chis- 
eled into the shape of a humanoid heart that pulses green 
illumination every 5 seconds. The emerald is worth 5,000 
gp, but it is the Verdant Heart the characters need to find 
and sunder to escape the Verdant Prison. The emerald has 
AC 16, 12 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic 
damage, and vulnerability to bludgeoning damage—but 
getting to the Heart can be tricky. 




The overgrown vines and other decaying vegetative matter 
on the altar are a shambling mound. A vine blight also 
grows in the soil in front of the altar. In the round after 
it detects the presence of sentient creatures in the cham- 
ber, the shambler begins to coalesce around the Verdant 
Heart. Once fully formed, the Heart is concealed inside 
its bulk and can only be retrieved by defeating the plant 
creature. Meanwhile, the vine blight picks up the heir and 
holds his incapacitated form out of reach, 15 feet over- 
head. A successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check 
reveals the vine blight tendrils are bored directly into the 
Prince’s skin. 




Developments. Once the shambling mound and the vine 
blight are destroyed, the Prince wakes up. He is dazed and 
confused from his centuries of imprisonment in the Ver- 
dant Prison. Assuming the characters sunder the emerald, 
all are transported back to area Q4. 




FURTHER ADVENTURES 




After the pyramid has been completely explored, the DM 
and players may want to continue with a series of adven- 
tures in the underground city. The following adventure 
suggestions all have a common goal: the rebuilding of the 
Cynidicean civilization with the aid of the player charac- 
ters. These adventures are intended to require many dif- 
ferent styles of play, so the DM and players can try differ- 
ent approaches to the game. For simple dungeon crawl 
or exploration adventures, the DM can always open new 
tunnels to other catacomb areas (see area R) or send the 
characters to the goblin caves (area O). 




Unite the Cynidiceans. The characters must find a way 
to bring order to the Lost City. The safest way is to unite 
the factions of Gorm, Usamigaras, and Madarua through 
a series of social interactions and side quests to prove their 
worth and gain favor. The DM should allow for other op- 




tions to be viable as well. These could include getting the 
factions to unite against acommon enemy, such as the evil 
cult of Zargon (see area K), or the mysterious dark power 
holding the population under its sway with the elixir of 
fantasy (see chapter 3). The characters might decide to 
aid one faction in defeating the other two factions. The 
characters might even decide that none of the factions are 
worthy of reviving the civilization, and they might seek to 
overthrow all factions and assume control of the under- 
ground city themselves! These two options are likely to be 
more heavily politically-themed adventures as opposed to 
open conflict and exploration. 




Destroy Zargon’s Horn. This assumes the characters 
learn the truth about Zargon’s ability to regenerate its 
body, likely from the gynosphinx in area M. If the Cyn- 
idicean people are ever to be completely free of Zargon, 
the horn must be destroyed by dropping it into the lava 
pit at the Eye of Zargon (area Q). After getting the horn 
from Zargon, the characters need to mount an expedition 
through the Wasteland, picking a safe route to the crater. 
Once there, they need to oppose the creatures guarding it 
to succeed. Oh, and they have a time limit of 24 hours to 
accomplish this task (fully known by the efreeti guardian). 




The Ambush. Zargon’s cultists try to ambush the charac- 
ters, perhaps with the aid of goblin and hobgoblin troops. 
The DM starts this scenario like any other adventure. At 
some point, however, the DM springs the ambush. This is 
a prepared plan of attack combining ranged attacks, mag- 
ic support, and melee attacks against the party. Although 
this should be a Deadly encounter (with a challenge rating 
about 4 higher than the average level of the characters; see 
chapter 3), the characters should have a reasonable chance 
to survive the conflict. The DM should allow the PCs 
a chance to surrender or escape, or perhaps get support 
from one of the factions or another benefactor. This sup- 
port and aid might come with strings attached, and lead 
to a side quest. 




Raid on the Temple of Zargon. Even with Zargon defeat- 
ed (though maybe not permanently), the cultists are still a 
strong force in Cynidicea. If the characters have destroyed 
Zargon, the cultists seek revenge, and more importantly 
try to discover the fate of the horn. On the other hand, a 
faction the party has joined might try to raid the temple, 
or the party might try to rescue a kidnapped NPC who is 
being held there. Perhaps the NPC has important knowl- 
edge needed by the characters or the faction. The charac- 
ters could be given a general map of the temple, but not 




ORIGINAL SDVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




the details of guardians, traps, and so on. The emphasis of 
this quest would be on planning a suitable infiltration raid. 




The Prophecy. Each faction has a relic that could be used 
to destroy Zargon as described in areas L, M, and N. In 
the case of Usamigaras, the relic is knowledge, either con- 
tained in a tome or from the gynosphinx. The relic has 
been stolen or lost ages ago and the characters must find 
it and return it to its rightful faction. Only then can the 
relic be used to aid the quest to defeat Zargon and its al- 
lies. The relic could have fallen into the hands of another 
faction, hidden on the Island of Death (area B), stashed 
in the vast hoard of the goblin king (area O), or lost in 
the Lower Catacombs (see chapter 8). Its return to the 
faction’s stronghold completes part of a prophecy that de- 
scribes Cynidicea’s recovery. The DM should create the 
prophecy, tailored to the type of story he would like to tell 
and then plant the clues for the characters to discover it. 
The relic itself is much too powerful for the characters to 
keep, and thus should pass from play once its purpose is 
accomplished. 




The Antidote. The source for the dream-like state of the 
Cynidiceans is the spore of a rare fungus that grows in the 
Lower Catacombs. There, a mysterious malignant power 
has discovered the secret to harvest the spore and distill it 
into a biological weapon suitable to enthrall an entire city, 
once dispersed in the population’s drinking water source. 
The characters defeat the hobgoblin troops stationed at 
the entrance to the catacombs (area R) and must raise 
the stone slab to venture into the Lower Catacombs (see 
chapter 8). After a few encounters, the party discovers a 
mysterious race of fungus men forced to grow and culti- 
vate the mushrooms in vast fields. The characters must use 
their wits to disrupt the production of the spores and then 
discover the hidden laboratory used to distill the elixir to 
complete their task. 




The True King. After the deaths of King Alexander and 
Queen Zenobia, the royal family did not actually die out. 
A descendent of the royal line still lives but would be 
quickly killed if discovered. Centuries ago, Prince Alec- 
zander was concealed in a hedge maze prison for his own 
safety and the future hope of the Cynidicean people. First, 
the characters must discover the Prince is still alive (likely 
from the Magi of Usamigaras), and then how to access 
his demi-plane prison (see area Q). Finally, they need to 
travel to the hedge maze (area U) and return him to the 
Lost City to assume his rightful claim to the throne. But 
if the DM wishes, the challenge doesn’t need to end there. 




premise = 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




The characters must protect (as he has many enemies) and 
advise the royal heir, teaching him how to be a king, until 
it is safe for him to assume the full responsibility of the 
throne. This can run as a long-term story arc through any 
of the other adventures suggested herein. 




Escape the Desert. Depending on the hook used to start 
the adventure in the pyramid, the characters might have 
begun lost in a sandstorm, seeking shelter in the pyramid. 
The PCs simply might desire to escape the desert. The 
DM may create a special wilderness adventure for them 
to find their way out. Chapter 3 has a table of random 
wilderness encounters which can get the DM started on 
designing the challenges to escape the desert. The DM 
is also encouraged to review the Dungeon Masters Guide 
(chapter 3, chapter 5, and appendix B, respectively) for 
information how to create adventures, wilderness encoun- 
ters, and monster lists based on terrain. 




The Guardian. During a myriad of adventures through- 
out the pyramid and/or the environs of the Lost City, the 
characters might come across a mysterious guardian or 
require an unknown benefactor to aid them in their time 
of need. The guardian tests the worthiness of the party 
before giving them a valuable piece of information to fur- 
ther their quest, or in response to saving their hides. The 
mysterious guardian’s true identity is up to the DM to de- 
cide, and might even be Gorm, Usamigaras, or Madarua 
in disguise! 




Explore the Underdark. The caverns of the Lower Cat- 
acombs (see chapter 9) are connected to a vast under- 
ground realm called the Underdark. These tunnels and 
caverns range for hundreds of miles, creating an under- 
ground realm ripe for adventure. Inhabited by evil drow, 
duergar, and the alien mind flayers, the characters find 
few allies in these dark twisted passages. But there are a 
few bastions of good secluded in side passages and hid- 
den in gloomy grottos—such as the deep gnomes, former 
allies of the Cynidiceans. If the Cynidiceans throw down 
the shackles of enslavement from Zargon and return to 
their former glory, it would be in their best interest to 
reestablish peaceful trade that would benefit both sides. 
The characters could be tasked first with finding the deep 
gnomes, and then convincing them of the Cynidiceans’ 
good intentions. Or perhaps the characters simply wish to 
explore the unlit chambers and passages of the Underdark 
and plunder its bounty of precious resources... 




1 




CHAPTER SEVEN 




The Goblin Caves 




Lost City environs were only outlined so that the 


Dungeon Master could gain experience designing 
encounter locations and stocking them with monsters 
and treasures. One of these locations was the Goblin 
Caves, an area riddled with passages and caves set on a 
sheer cliff face overlooking the underground lake. A large 
tribe of goblins lives in the upper caves, while the milita- 
ristic hobgoblins in league with the cult of Zargon lair in 
the middle caves. Finally, the lower caves are inhabited by 
ogres, thouls, and even a troll! For the fifth edition con- 
version of this classic adventure, the Goblin Caves have 




been fully detailed and described. 




4 n the original version of the adventure module, the 




There are numerous cave openings labeled with letters on 
map 23, which depicts the side view of these entrances. 
Maps 24-29 depict the interiors of the various cave levels, 
with these letters repeated on the maps to cross-reference 
which entrance leads to which cave. 




DM Note: The challenges presented in the Goblin Caves 
are suitable for character levels 4 to 5. As the characters 
delve deeper into these caves, the challenges increase. If the 
characters are not powerful enough to challenge Zargon, 
this is the perfect adventuring site to hone their skills, 
gather experience points to level up, and perhaps gather a 
few choice magic items. Any of the factions could send the 
characters on a quest to these caves to prove their loyalty, 
retrieve a lost relic, or rescue a prisoner vital to the faction. 
Consult the “Further Adventures” section of chapter 6 for 
ideas on ways to get the characters to this location. 




It’s possible the characters might not be ready for the chal- 
lenges of this goblin lair. In that case, the DM is encour- 
aged to adjust the challenge of the encounters based on 
the number of characters and their average levels, as de- 
scribed in the “Designing Appropriately Challenging En- 
counters” section of chapter 3. The pre-generated charac- 
ters described in appendix C can be used to round out the 
party or substituted for fallen characters. In the latter case, 
it is likely the NPCs would be prisoners of the hobgoblins 
(or even the goblins) and would need to be freed. In this 




case, they would have no starting equipment or money. 
However, they would be very loyal to the characters for 
being rescued, and if properly equipped would gladly join 
them to face the threat of the goblin king! 




GOBLIN CAVES (LEVELS 0-2) 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Goblin Adaptations. This particular tribe of goblins 
call themselves the Scalers, which suits their affinity for 
serpentine allies and their proficiency at climbing walls. 
They have resided in these cliff dwellings for centuries 
and as such have honed their skill at climbing rocky sur- 
faces. All goblins encountered in this location substitute 
the Acrobatics skill for Stealth. In addition, they gain the 




following trait: 




Rock Scaler: When the goblin is climbing a rocky sur- 
face, it may make a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check instead 
of a Strength (Athletics) check. 




The goblins have carved many footholds and handholds 
into surfaces they often climb, such as the cliff face and 
the walls in area 10. These allow a climber to have advan- 
tage on all climb checks, assuming they have knowledge 




of the holds. 




Poles. The goblins have mounted metal poles throughout 
their cave dwellings (area 10) and even on the exterior 
ledges to facilitate quick movement from higher to lower 
elevations. When used to slide down, a successful DC 
10 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check is 
needed to move at double normal movement rate. Fail- 
ure indicates a fall and the appropriate bludgeoning dam- 
age based on the distance of the fall. A successful DC 13 
Strength (Athletics) check is needed to ascend the pole at 
normal climbing rates. 




Goblin Weapons. Unless otherwise noted in the text, 
the Scalers are typically armed with shortswords (+4 to 
hit, 5 [1d6 + 2] piercing damage) and slings (+4 to hit, 




EERIE TT 




oricinaL ADV ER IURES REINCARTATED e THE Lost city ( 




FLITE Ie BIT 




LE EASES AEA IF GPE ET TES SET TRL TL 




Yb 4 oo 




ae 0 
ae 




Conveyor 
with Trough 




Side View of Entrances. . jf Cave 
a? ae © Pole 
M,_ Not to Scale 




fi yy, 
fe Yy, 




Water Level 




ie ‘ te" 
: ye 




4 




y 
4y 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST CiTY 




range 30/120 ft., 4 [1d4 + 2] bludgeoning damage). Each 
goblin carries a pouch of 1d6 + 9 sling stones, and there 
are plentiful replacement stones throughout the caves to 
ensure a nearly endless supply, so the DM need not worry 
about tracking ammunition. They do not carry shields, 
but they wear studded leather armor (AC 14). Each gob- 
lin carries a vial of basic poison, collected by the snake 
handlers or shaman from the tribe's snake allies. If a gob- 
lin spends an action applying the poison to a slashing 
or piercing weapon, a hit requires the target to make a 
successful DC 10 Constitution saving throw or suffer an 
additional 2 (1d4) poison damage. The poison lasts on a 
weapon for 1 minute before drying. 




Construction. These caves are natural passages and 
chambers, although in places minor carving and exca- 
vation have been performed. The walls are rough-hewn, 
unless otherwise described, and the floors are smooth al- 
though occasionally uneven, with cracks and debris being 
common. 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are well below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid 
locations. The air is still dry here, but the humidity in- 
creases as the characters delve deeper and closer to the 
underground lake. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 8 
to 10 feet high, while room ceilings are on average 8 to 
12 feet high. A notable exception to this is area 10, which 
sprawls over three levels and itself is about 130 feet high. 




Doors. There are few doors in the goblin caves. All are 
stone (AC 17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning 
damage, resistance to piercing and slashing damage) and 
push inward to open. A door that is barred or stuck can 
be burst open with a successful DC 15 Strength check. A 
locked door can be forced open with a successful DC 18 
Strength check. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the Goblin Caves is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. Several patrols of goblin guards 
wander the caverns. Each patrol consists of six goblins. 
Wandering goblin patrols are encountered on a roll of 1 
on 1d6. Check for wandering monsters once every 30 
minutes of exploration. If encountered, two of this group 
flee to get reinforcements from the closest guardroom or 
barracks (area 1, 3, 5, 12, or 16). 




KEY TO LEVELS 0-2 (MAPS 24-26) 




AREA 1 - CONCEALED GUARDROOM 




DM Note: The entrance to this chamber is concealed be- 
hind asecret door. Locating the secret door requires a suc- 
cessful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check; the PCs have 
advantage on these checks. The goblins are lazy regarding 
concealing their movements here, so searching the corri- 
dor for tracks with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) 
check reveals numerous goblinoid tracks leading to the 
door. The secret door opens by simply pushing inward. 




If the characters don’t travel past this room first (alerting 
the guards to their presence via the peepholes) they can 
gain surprise on these guards. Adjust the read-aloud text 
below as needed: 




This chamber is 20 feet by 20 feet, with a battered table and 
chairs positioned in the middle of the room. Surrounding the 
table are several goblinoids clearly armed and ready for battle— 
but caught unaware. They leap to their feet and draw swords! 




This is a secret guardroom. The five goblin warriors (see 
appendix B) posted here are responsible for observing the 
entrance passage and tending to the beast locked up in 
area 2. They fight to the death, and one uses an action to 
pull down the lever on the north wall. 




Along the north wall are three peepholes allowing obser- 
vation of the corridor outside the room. These peepholes 
are concealed with stones on this side of the wall, although 
they are slightly discolored from the surrounding rock. A 
successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals the 
peepholes. There is also a wooden lever about 4 feet off 
the floor nearly centered on the north wall (among the 
peepholes). The lever is usually in the upright position. 
Pulling the lever down raises the portcullis blocking the 
route to area 2. 




The table and chairs are normal. Scattered on the table is 
an assortment of coins used for gambling. These include 
87 sp, 11 gp, and a tiny red garnet (50 gp). Each goblin 




warrior carries 2d6 sp. 




Development. If the lever is pulled down (by the goblins 
or the characters) it releases the hook horror in area 2. 
The horror takes a moment or two to get its bearings, 
but within 1 minute it leaves the room. The raising of the 
portcullis creates a noisome grinding sound that gets the 
attention of the guards in area 3, and in 2 rounds they 
come to investigate. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




pete. 7g 
puejajsem . V 
401,40 




A 




is a ek ie 




| 




= alike S , VE ' 
lm : a . & 2 A F 4 Y 
VAY AS 0 ws . — > Shp i uP] i * 
5 ve AN A = a Sil, } Ve AS La ih ZA $ Zz 3] UG 
Y S = > ah = = j \ INS ‘ Sik 9) ¥ Z SS a p 
Y 5 é SS Is ! f — = - Cy “ + “ y 
yy, 5 DING LY b AY) = Mt ; Up ,, > Ty Fl ’ ONG i Z 
na SSIVAWA= , 4 / ” Ws A\% <i ig Y= 
TNA > ze + ke 
” PA 




\ 




ft 


t 


Ins cl A a) WAVE as, BA 
pus [seis b ve 
= Ny7= : ANY, 1 WY 




280 S[PAa] 
0} uado 




il 




ay US 
5 i F “| 
ZA\ fg 
EI) SEZ MS 
—4F “ A \ o> 




i al j 




A as a a IAISS es 4 Y 
y | mal Ve YN) S95 Awe sy ved ot= [_] 4 
mE ON SC ae 1 




SSA z, 
s 7 




\ 




id \ 
NG li a EN 
Y ENTREES 
SOMES \ 
Cee A fs 
5 a) 




<A a\\s 
. 
Y, 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




4 ie 




< ive L Er 
YER i i! j 
aR OWS | T 120a7 tL & 
VAS IWS 
SK 
\e alas y; Ov»21y PZ dVN 




SNA 1 


=Z\ SS NS = < =a \4 SAAVO NITGOO a7 


ae Co hee 


LRA mS EN eG 
a XUN Ce RE a 




WA 




KK 
Ke 




x 
3 
KG 




D 




< 
We 
Ss 
\ NY j 
r 
SS 
Zs ‘ 
ws 




PS i 
me ; 
ih 




| 




DO, NT 
AREA 2 —- HOOK HORROR PEN 




An) 




DM Note: This hallway is blocked with a black metal port- 
cullis, keeping the occupant of the room captured. The 
portcullis can be raised by pulling the lever in area 1. Oth- 
erwise, it requires a successful DC 20 Strength check to lift 
the bars or a successful DC 22 Strength check to bend or 
break down the bars. If the characters antagonize the hook 
horror (such as attacking it through the bars) it attempts 
to break down the portcullis to get at its foes. If reduced to 
half hit points or fewer, it has advantage on this skill check. 




This roughly 25-foot-diameter cavern has rough-hewn walls 
and smells of animal waste. The western corner has a group 
of rocks arranged to hold a pile of rotting fungus and other 




organic debris. 




The goblins have captured a hook horror and trapped it 
here to serve as a guardian. It has a nasty disposition as it 
is tired of eating fish plus the occasional goblin. It craves 
different flesh and attacks with abandon if the opportu- 
nity presents itself. 




There is nothing of value in its nest. 




Development. If the hook horror is released it likely 
heads deeper into the caves. If it runs into opposition in 
the form of guards, it likely doubles back. If reduced to 
10 hit points or fewer, it seeks to flee, preferably to find a 
route outside of the caves so it can retreat into the main 
cavern, perhaps eventually making its way back to the 
Underdark via the Lower Catacombs. 




AREA 3 - GUARDROOM 
This chamber is roughly circular and about 35 feet in di- 




ameter. Soiled canvas hammocks are strung from the walls. 
Numerous goblins wearing scale mail mill about this room. 




This somewhat larger chamber is another guardroom. Six 
goblin warriors (see appendix B) are stationed here. In 
addition to the 10 hammocks there is a dented metal bra- 




LL LPS IR RT Be SS fT IS ET 5 EEG EE 




ORIGHIAL ADVENTURES PETE COR nAL ED e THE Lost city 




LTT SELLE SST 




zier holding hot embers in one corner of the room. Hang- 
ing on the wall are numerous gutted dried fish. Along the 
east wall is a rack holding eight longspears (the shafts are 
12 feet long) used to keep the hook horror in area 2 at 
bay while entering its pen. If a longspear is wielded in 
combat, treat it as a lance (Players Handbook, p. 148) 
with the additional restriction that two goblins must co- 
operate to wield it properly; if only one goblin attempts 
to wield it, the goblin has disadvantage on attack rolls. 




Each goblin warrior carries 2d6 sp. 




Development. If combat occurs here, one goblin warrior 
attempts the flee the battle, hastening to area 5 to rouse 
the guards there. 




AREA 4 - COMMUNAL ROOM 




The corridor empties into a large chamber, measuring perhaps 
60 feet in diameter. The center of the room has a firepit, softly 
aglow from dying embers. Hanging over the firepit is a massive 
pot of bubbling stew. Several benches and tables are scattered 
about, tended to by several goblins. 




This room serves as a communal gathering area and mess 
hall for the tribe. At any given time, there are 3d4 gob- 
lins here taking meals, preparing meals, or meeting in 
small groups. If obvious intruders enter this location, the 
goblins are quick to respond by taking up arms and at- 
tacking (see the “Improvised Weapons” sidebar). At least 
one goblin tries to slip away in the chaos of the battle to 
area 5 and summon the guards stationed there. 




‘0 eine 
IMPROVISED WEAPONS 




Although most are armed and wearing armor, some 
goblins might grab improvised weapons (a cleaver, a 
chair, a red-hot poker, or perhaps a pot of scalding water) 
to use in a pinch while in the communal chamber. This 
could result in quite a memorable encounter. An impro- 
vised weapon deals 1d4 damage of a type (bludgeoning, 
piercing, or slashing) as appropriate to its normal pur- 
pose. For example, a large frying pan deals bludgeoning 
damage, while a poker deals piercing damage. If either 
ofthese were red-hot when used, perhaps an additional 
1 fire damage would be called for. Assume the goblins 
are proficient with these improvised weapons, thus hav- 
ing a +1 or +4 to hit depending if the attack is Strength- 
or Dexterity-based, respectively. A thrown improvised 
weapon has a range of 20/60 ft. 




ee 




217 Ste y as 
».< 165) 
SSeS SRS cas He —— A \4 




Pana RR 




Sf 
/N. 




The furnishings are all normal and heavily used. Assorted 
cookware is scattered about, most of it caked with old food 
and in generally poor condition. Along the east wall are 
racks of dried lizard meat and dried fish. The pot of stew 




is a foul-smelling fungus concoction in an oily fishy stock. 
Each goblin here carries 1d6 sp. 




Development. If the guards from area 5 are summoned to 
this chamber, they arrive in 2 rounds. Several spend their 
first actions flipping over a few tables to use as half cover. 
The others crouch behind the tables and make ranged 
attacks until melee becomes inevitable. The guards fight 
to the death. 




AREA 5 - GUARDROOM 




This rough-hewn chamber is oval in shape and approximate- 
ly 35 feet across. The walls are lined with hammocks. An 
unlit brazier is tucked in a nook along the north wall, and a 
wooden crate is along the east wall. 




Six goblin warriors (see appendix B) are stationed here, 
often asleep, or possibly (but unlikely) practicing weapon 
play. Each goblin warrior carries 2d6 sp. 




The crate contains a variety of weapons, but all are bat- 
tered and in poor condition. If a natural 1 is rolled while 
attacking with one of these, the weapon breaks and 
is rendered useless. The crate contains: a mace, a flail, 
a longsword, a hand axe, three daggers, a sickle, and a 
light crossbow with no string. The brazier is covered with 
grime, but a close investigation reveals it is a soot-covered 
and composed of copper with fanciful designs etched 
into its surface. If cleaned, it would fetch 60 gp. 




Development. If combat breaks out in area 4, these 
guards need to succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom check to get 
up the gumption to investigate. 




AREA 6 — POLE ROOM 




The corridor ends at this oblong chamber perhaps 20 feet 
wide and 30 feet long. The ceiling stretches upwards at least 
50 feet, into the gloom of the shadows above. Sunk into the 
floor are three metal poles extending up. A trio of goblins 
hang on the poles at various heights scaling them up and 
down almost in a choreographed dance of sorts. 




The ceiling here is about 60 feet high, and the metal poles 
in the floor extend all the way to the ceiling. The three gob- 
lins here are practicing their pole climbing skills, having re- 
cently arrived at the caves from another tribe in the Under- 
dark. They wear their armor, but their weapons are piled in 




UNS EMG 2 A ARS a 




SE SET ET ANDERS TPT ENS | HRT TA ESSE TET STE SS OSTREAM 1 1 TTT IT 




a heap to the left of the cavern entrance. A fourth goblin is 
in the shadows near the ceiling. This fellow is a goblin war- 
rior (see appendix B) and is leading the training session. 




The goblins each carry 1d6 sp, while the goblin warrior 
carries 2d6 sp. 




AREA 7 — GARBAGE SHAFT 




DM Note: The corridor before this chamber is blocked by 
a black metal portcullis. On the right-hand wall about 10 
feet before the metal bars is a wooden lever that can easily be 
located. The lever is in the upward position. If pulled down, 
the portcullis raises. Otherwise, the bars can be lifted with 
a successful DC 18 Strength check or bent with a success- 
ful DC 22 Strength check. Area 7 reeks of decaying organic 
matter and offal, which can be detected at the portcullis. 




The corridor ends in a roughly 40-foot-diameter natural 
shaft that disappears into the darkness below. There are nu- 
merous ledges, nooks, and crannies along the shafts walls, 




and these are full of debris and waste deposited here by the 




goblins. Careful observation reveals movement from below. 




This shaft is used as a waste pit by the tribe. After years of 
discarding organic waste here, the stench has attracted nu- 
merous giant rats. If the characters spend more than 3 min- 
utes exploring or entering the shaft, they encounter 2d6 + 2 
giant rats. If combat occurs, another 1d4 + 1 giant rats are 
attracted to the sounds of battle and a potential fresh meal. 




Development. The portcullis does not prevent the giant 
rats from entering the goblin lair. The giant rats have little 
reason to do so, as they have plenty of food in area 7. On 
occasion a few do wander the caves and are generally ac- 
cepted by the goblins. The portcullis is designed to keep 
out an even larger predator that lairs down below (see 
area 15 on level 3, below). 




AREA 8 — STOREROOM 




DM Note: An unlocked stone door blocks the entrance 
to this storeroom. 




After pushing open the stone door you observe a roughly circular 
chamber about 25 feet in diameter. Several piles of crates are 
haphazardly stored here. Hanging from the ceiling on several 
ropes are dried haunches of meat and several large salted fish. 




This chamber is a storeroom. Mostly foodstuffs are stored 
here but a few of the crates contain mundane items like 
cookery, rope, and blankets. The foodstuffs are all dried 
rations, such as jerky, nuts, and dried fruit. These were 
plundered from a caravan months ago. One crate is full 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




of 50 pounds of salt used to preserve meat and fish. 




Hanging from the ceiling are seven haunches of meat 
(most of it is giant lizard meat, but two of the haunches 
appear to be humanoid) and five large fish. Tucked be- 
hind a few crates are three bolts of silk, each weighing 25 
pounds and worth 75 gp. 




AREA 9 — PRACTICE ROOM 




This is less of a chamber, but more of a widened corridor that 
terminates at a shaft that leads upward. The ceiling disap- 
pears in the shadows, and the northwest surface was once a 
majestic flowstone* but now is worn, pitted, and crumbling. 
Several goblinoids are scaling the wall and a pair of goblins 
at the base of the wall are barking commands—and possibly 
crude insults as well. 




The goblins are focusing on the task at hand (climbing) 
and are likely unaware of the characters at first. Quick- 
thinking characters can attack with surprise. There are 
seven goblins climbing the wall, each 2d3 x 10 feet off the 
floor. The two goblins shouting orders and instructions 
are goblin warriors (see appendix B). Once aware, the 
goblin warriors attack as the goblins on the wall scramble 
down to engage. Part of their training included climbing 
while armed and armored, so these climbing goblins are 
ready for battle. One or more goblins on the wall might 
decide to leap on a target. If they score a hit, the leap 
causes an additional 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. If they 
miss, the goblin takes appropriate falling damage. 




The top of the shaft is about 70 feet overhead. At the 
top is a secret door that can be discovered with a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. It is noth- 
ing more than a rock plugging a corridor. Beyond is a 
5-foot-wide passage that winds its way for another 100 
feet or so, gradually climbing until it reaches the surface 
in the Wasteland (see chapter 6, area P). The exit there is 
covered with a flat rock that can be easily moved aside. 




The goblins each carry 1d6 sp, while the goblin warrior 
carries 2d6 sp. 




AREA 10 - GOBLIN COMMUNAL CAVE 




The corridor ends at a ledge overlooking a massive cavern. 
The floor below disappears into inky darkness as your fee- 
ble light source fails to penetrate it. Overhead, the ceiling 
stretches for at least 30 feet. The ledge wraps around to the 
right and then ends. Other ledges can be seen leading to fur- 
ther cave entrances, some dark and some softly aglow. Many 




(i ae oe Area a a 
g7essTHE GOBLIN CAVES 




<i Level 0 




y 




or 




8 M4 —_ -€ 
LRSS (Py aN \\\' u SSS 
§\ ATHY ee) 
‘ Pa y, sy > + me A dx 
i A “Ss 7a = 




we 




Zl 




VN 




ee Open to || lp ae 7 
ae levels 1&2 mw We . 
Pho ht 




ORIGINAL VENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




of these are higher or lower than your current elevation. Sev- 
eral metal lines and rope bridges can be seen spanning the 
cavern. To the left is a metal pole near the ledge, originating 
from the ceiling, and disappearing into the gloom below. 




DM Note: Consult the “A Dynamic Adventure Locale” 
sidebar before running this encounter. 




This massive cavern is well over 100 feet in diameter. The 
ceiling is about 50 feet overhead, and the floor is 80 feet 
below, making the overall height 130 feet. Ringing the 
cavern are numerous (15 to be exact) cave entrances all 
about 5 to 10 feet wide. These lead to various goblin liv- 
ing quarters (see area 11 for details). 




When the characters first arrive, unless they have a light 
source, they are not instantly spotted. Careful observa- 
tion reveals several goblins moving about, and with a few 
successful DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) checks, the charac- 
ters can remain unseen for a few minutes to get a good 
look at the cavern. Eventually a goblin (maybe even a 




patrol coming from behind) should spot the characters, 
which alerts the entire area. At that point all heck breaks 
loose! Although it takes a few rounds, starting on the 
third round, 1d6 + 2 goblins exit the caves each round, 
armed and ready for a fight! 




There are many features of this cavern: 




Walls. Over the years, the goblins have chiseled numer- 
ous handholds in the walls to make climbing easier. A 
character can climb up or down a wall with a success- 
ful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. Failure necessitates 
a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw to attempt grabbing a 
ledge. A character succeeding here takes 2 (1d4) bludg- 
eoning damage but a failure results in a fall and taking 
the appropriate falling damage based on height—which 




easily could be deadly for low-level characters. 




Poles. The goblins have mounted metal poles (as indicat- 
ed on the maps) to facilitate climbing and sliding between 
levels 0, 1, and 2. (See “General Features” above for how 




a 




AS DYNAMIC ADVENTURE LOCALE 




The area 10 encounter is a complicated set piece that 
spans three levels and hosts a multitude of adversaries 
that can overwhelm even an experienced group of play- 
ers. Of course, it's a challenge to run such an encounter. 
Here are a few tips to consider before the characters ever 
get here: 




- Determine the number of goblins in each area 11 ahead 
of time. There are 15 such areas across levels 0,1, and 
2. Populate each area by rolling randomly (1d4 + 2) or 
simply assume there are four goblins in each chamber. 
There should be a total of 60; mark them on the map. 




- This is a three-dimensional encounter site, so use that to 
the goblins’ advantage. Of course, the players could use 
it to their advantage as well. 




- Area-of-effect spells (such as fireball) can even the play- 
ing field. But, based on the size of the chamber and the 
multiple levels, it is likely only a limited number of gob- 
lins are caught in a spell's area of effect. Such a show of 
force would still likely cause some goblins to flee or at 
least reconsider clashing with such a powerful foe. 




-To speed play, consider not rolling damage for the gob- 
lins. Instead just assign average damage amounts. 




ORIGINAL 




RTS LA 




ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




- Use a battle mat and miniatures even if this is normally 




not the case at your game table. It facilitates tracking 
who is where in this 3D environment. 




- Think “cinematic” and feel free to use some comedy for 




good effect. For example, just before a goblin strikes 
a killing blow on a character, another goblin falls on it 
from above. Of course, in the next round the character 
now faces two goblins! 




- Allow plenty of time in the game session to realize the 




full potential of this set piece. 




What can the DM do if the characters are being overrun, 
and it looks like asure TPK? 




- Have the goblins switch to nonlethal combat to capture 




the characters. Shortly after the fight they are traded to 
the hobgoblins below and imprisoned in area 16 on level 
3. The focus of the adventure can now become escape. 




- Have arandom monster show up to even the odds or at 




least provide a distraction. This could be the hook horror 
if it's free from area 2, one or both of the carrion crawl- 
ers from area 15 on level 3, or even aswarm of giant rats. 




eee ee Se RTS SER 




ELS LN LEA ELE ELA NETL 




}?] 
oH 
Ew FE 
Lo] 
oat 
| 
ame | 
_e 
/_ 
[: 
ey 
ml 
ge 
fof 
a 
ix | 
ig | 
4 
i> | 
aL in| 
ice 
S | 




ORIGINAL 




the goblins use these.) A character can slide down a pole 
safely at double speed with a successful DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. Climbing 
a pole requires a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) 
check. Failure indicates falling damage, but for only half 
the distance of the fall. 




Zip Lines. The goblins have mounted oiled metal cables 
to serve as zip lines. The zip lines are labeled with letter 
codes A, B, and C. These indicate where each zip line 
originates and ends; A connects levels 0 and 1, B is on 
level 1 only, and C connects levels 1 and 2. The goblins 
can use their leather slings to slide down these quickly 
from one level to another. If a character attempts to use a 
zip line, they must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity (Acro- 
batics) check to travel without falling. Climbing a zip line 
requires a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. 




Rope Bridges. Rope bridges span the cavern at various 
points. Crossing one requires a successful DC 10 Dex- 
terity (Acrobatics) check. During combat on a bridge, 
checks are made with disadvantage and are required each 
turn. Suffering damage while on a rope bridge requires 
another check to remain on the bridge; the DC is 5 + the 
amount of damage taken. A generous DM might allow 
a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw to grab onto the bridge 
before plummeting. 




Floor. The floor of this chamber has four large stalag- 
mites that are big enough to grant half cover. The floor is 
also covered with a writhing mass of snakes—enough to 
constitute a dozen swarms. Movement across the floor is 
considered difficult terrain and requires a DC 13 Dexter- 
ity saving throw be made at the end of each turn to avoid 
the snakes; failure indicates blundering into a swarm of 
snakes. Treat each as a swarm of poisonous snakes but 
with no poison damage and a reduced challenge rating of 




t (200 XP). 




AREA 11 —- GOBLIN LIVING CAVE 




Down a short corridor is a rough-hewn chamber with a low 
ceiling. The walls are covered with crude paintings depicting 
goblinoids doing mundane tasks, plus random graffiti. Sev- 
eral dirty pallets lined with mangy furs are scattered about. 




In each of these 15 caves lives 1d4 + 2 goblins; there are 
60 total. Each has a small firepit, several pallets for sleep- 
ing, and perhaps the odd piece of woody fungal furniture. 




In addition to each goblin carrying 2d6 sp, each cave has 
a small amount of treasure stashed in a hidden location, 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




LTS 




perhaps under a rock, inside a cask, or stuffed in a cavity 
in the wall. Finding each stash requires a separate suc- 
cessful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. Each stash 
contains 8d6 sp, 2d4 gp, and a gem or small art object 
worth (2d8 + 2) x 10 gp. 




Development. It’s likely these goblins are not encoun- 
tered in these caves. If alerted to the characters’ presence 
in area 10, eventually all the goblins exit their caves and 
engage in the battle. 




AREA 12 — BARRACKS 




DM Note: If these goblin guards are summoned to the 
battle in area 10, adjust the read-aloud text: 




The walls of this roughly 30-foot-diameter room are lined 
with carved sleeping nooks allthe way up to the ceiling. Most 
are occu pied, and your intrusion creates a flurry of activity. 




This area serves as a barracks for 14 goblins tasked with 
guarding this secret entrance to the lair. If not on alert 
or responding to an incursion, these goblins are mostly 
asleep and take a few rounds to mount an effective resist- 




ance. But when they do, they fight to the death. 




Each goblin carries 2d6 sp. In addition, there is an un- 
locked chest tucked under some dirty blankets along the 
south wall. The chest contains 112 cp, 88 sp, and 13 gp. 
Buried in the coins is a golden ring set with an impressive 
emerald. It appears to be worth 2,000 gp, but a success- 
ful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals it is 
a fake (the emerald is glass and the ring is copper painted 
gold) and only worth 15 gp. 




There is a secret door on the northeast wall. It can be 
located with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The door, once found, easily slides to the left, re- 
vealing a corridor that exits the lair onto a ledge over- 
looking the underground lake, near the top of the water 
conveyor system. A boulder is pushed up against this en- 
trance to conceal it from casual view. 




AREA 13 — GOBLIN FISHERFOLK 




This chamber is perhaps 30 feet in diameter. Several worn 
nets adorned with tiny fishhooks hang from the ceiling to 
dry. The room smells like rotting fish. Several filthy pallets are 
strewn about the floor. 




In this cave, nine goblins that specialize in fishing spend 
their free time while their nets soak in the lake below. 
These goblins wear no armor (AC 12) and wield tridents 
(+1 to hit, range 20/60 ft., 2 [1d6 - 1] piercing damage, 




oe ede enecryreae aH, 4 




ASSN NE RE 




TT TP AIT RSE SES SET SSS aE MSN 




LED pm I EON Ls a PRIS cere 
; Or’ ”. b; 5 —« ae SAW 
6 A : iy: wo ee 




4. ‘THE ~*~ i bye liege 4 | 
GOBLIN CAVES, US i & ip Yh ysps\\ — oe) 




sags = 




mw « Wii/k opel i a 
GAA 
OT TSR 
x | 15) | Reine h 
7S CS 




\\ 


D 


OTR 
SS 




‘, 




PS SQ SO 
by a4 er Ss She by 
TE 
\ yon 
ae AY 
ie 




aN ’ 


Ur tS agi 


SAGA 
= whe 


_ < 




7 * 
\ 
r e “iit 
« = 4 my 
‘ *, 
‘ 
iy Sf VG 
> 
1 




\ 




waa > 
-—~ . Sy 
Sy WE © ss 
v4 ¢. 
AVA Ys 
SA batt Co 
AR er) ASE 
Vases : 2, 
ae 




\ i 




ES a 
Wall Ron eS 
JES a Ae 
clic) Sm ee 2 


Fe VED: | | AN 


Pat | | TL th ASAP 




{| 




Ni 




ay ry 
fit, ; 
Sw TE SUS 
Mi ai ia 




Lm Se Vite 




d 
1 




— 
ane 
| 




R} 




‘i 




S ae 
7 4_¥ 




s 
54 
\ SST 
* aed . 
¥ a) 
ae ieee 
a 
f NW eens, Fh Se 
y wT Am, *° ~ 
=, bd rd ¥ v i] 
Ae ; 7 AN 8 if J e*\ u 4 
y hur i i < 




door 
i> in‘FloorgZ/ 
-Down/to/Level 




Ne 




dl 




a NN 




wa 
See rice tear 
a a lad i 




The i@ - x. = el ‘ eae Set = eo Ee hae, ES Gry Tp” « ; a) a ) f me 
bi SOLD pn ei hy. cin, ae ee ce pre A OE \\,. id) ele * AE , a 
Cy Ae iy ama WEE! ae Say LH, re ee el ty ZZ Pal Ni, rit he Bo, * SON” 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




5 AT EE YET PSE SE Po RI FN 




or 3 [1d8 - 1] piercing damage if used with two hands to 
make a melee attack) that are normally used to spear fish. 
There are five nets hanging from the ceiling. A goblin can 
spend an action releasing a net, hoping it falls on a target 
(+4 to hit). If hit, a Large or smaller target is restrained. A 
restrained creature can spend an action to make a DC 10 
Strength check to escape, with failure resulting in taking 
3 (1d4 + 1) piercing damage from the fishhooks set in the 
net. The net can also be cut (AC 10, 5 hit points) with 
a slashing weapon to release a restrained target. If a net 
misses its target, a goblin may spend an action to gather 
it for use the following round (+1 to hit, range 5/15 ft., 
target may be restrained as above). 




These goblins are quite successful at their trade, as evi- 
denced by the bounty of dried fish stored in area 14. As 
such, they can afford to sell some of their fishy wares to 
the hobgoblins below—on the sly of course. Behind a 
rock in the west wall, which requires a successful DC 17 
Wisdom (Perception) check to locate, is a hidden cavity. 
Inside the cavity is a smelly sack that holds 355 sp and 
223 gp. 




AREA 14 - STOREROOM 




This small, tidy chamber is stacked high with casks. Hanging 
from the ceiling are numerous bizarre-looking salted fish, 
some over 4 feet long. 




This is a water storeroom. Water is collected from the un- 
derground lake and transported here via the water con- 
veyor (see area 1 on level 4), for use in the entire goblin 
lair. There are five stacks of casks, each four high. Most 
are filled with lake water, although there are three empty 
casks. Each cask holds 25 gallons. 




The goblin fisherfolk also store their dried and salted fish 
here on hooks set into the ceiling. The casks are used to 
place and retrieve the fish. There are 17 large fish pre- 
served here. 




Years ago, a goblin thief hid some ill-gotten goods in a 
cavity at the base of the north wall that has remained 
unfound. It is covered with a rock but can be located 
with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. In- 
side the cavity is a sack holding 88 gp, three small pink 
pearls (100 gp each), a silver puzzle box (55 gp), and a po- 
tion of healing. The puzzle box can be opened with three 
consecutive successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) 
checks. Inside is a ring of water walking. 




Secs nes meres 




kL TL ED LS LNT See TSE 




AREA 15 — SNAKE HANDLERS 




A short flight of natural steps descends into this damp cham- 
ber. The ceiling is low, perhaps only 7 feet high, and two 
naturally formed columns occur here. The floor is a writhing 
mass of snakes, many brightly colored or with bands of alter- 
nate colors. Several goblins, resting in hammocks and nooks 
carved into the walls, are startled by your arrival, and ready 
themselves for battle! 




Several members of the tribe have become experts in han- 
dling snakes and surround themselves with poisonous 
snakes. These handlers have become proficient in picking 
up snakes and hurling them toward attackers. Over re- 
peated bites, they have even developed a resistance to the 
snakes’ poison. Use regular goblin stats for these seven, 
but replace Stealth (+6) with Animal Handling (+3) and 




add the following new trait and action: 




Venomous Tolerance: The goblin has been bitten so 
many times by poisonous snakes that it has advantage on 
all saving throws regarding poison. 




Throw Snake: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 10 
ft., one target. Hit: The poisonous snake makes a bite 
attack against the target with advantage on the roll. 




—— ERG RI, 




cl 




There is the equivalent of three swarms of poisonous 
snakes on the floor. The goblins have a virtually endless 
supply of snakes to throw, so that is their preferred tactic. 
If a goblin rolls a natural 1 while throwing a snake, the 
goblin is bitten. 




Each goblin snake handler carries 3d6 sp. In addition, 
hidden in a hole in the floor at the base of the north wall 
under a pile of shed snake skins is a small wooden chest 
with iron bands. The chest is not locked but has a crude 
needle trap. The trap can be discovered with a success- 
ful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check and disabled with 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 13 Dexterity check. If 
triggered, the trap causes 1 piercing damage and the tar- 
get must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw 
or suffer 5 (2d4) poison damage. The chest contains 255 
gp, a lump of pink coral (100 gp), a potion of animal 
friendship, and three +1 arrows bound together with a silk 
scarf set with gold thread (20 gp). 




AREA 16 - GUARDROOM 




DM Note: These three guardrooms are identical except 
for the northernmost one, which has a secret door that 
can be discovered with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Per- 
ception) check. Alter the read-aloud text if needed: 




This 20-foot-by-30-foot room appears to be a barracks of 
sorts. Numerous wooden pallets line the walls and a sturdy 
table and chairs rest in the center of the room. 




Each of these locations houses six goblin warriors (see 
appendix B). While stationed here, these goblins are 
armed, armored, and ready to respond to an incursion in 
the entry corridor from area D, or to the king in area 17. 




They fight to the death to defend the lair or their king. 




Each goblin warrior carries 4d6 sp. 




AREA 17 — HALL OF THE GOBLIN KING 




DM Note: A locked stone door blocks access to this 
chamber. The door can be picked with thieves’ tools and 
a successful DC 17 Dexterity check, or it can be forced 
with a successful DC 22 Strength check. Forcing the door 
open certainly alerts the Goblin “King,” who summons 
more guards from area 16. 




This massive hall is about 50 feet wide and 70 feet long. 
At the far end is an immense wooden throne adorned with 
rough gemstones. Sitting on the throne is a pudgy goblinoid 
wearing a fancy robe. His feet rest on a kneeling goblin. Four 




armored guards stand around the throne ready to protect 




their king. Several tapestries are draped from the ceiling. 
This is the Goblin “King’s” throne room—but the Goblin 




“King” is not what he seems to be. A few years ago, the 
leader of the tribe was killed and replaced by a doppel- 
ganger in league with a powerful female goblin named 
Gurtella. She desired to rule the tribe as her own, but 
understood the goblin rabble would never remain loyal 
to a female boss for very long. So, she conspired to over- 
throw the previous king and place her ally on the throne. 
Meanwhile, she is the true leader of the tribe (see area 19 
for details). 




The Goblin “King,” Olliva, prefers to hang back and let 
the guards engage with intruders. He is quick to raise 
an alarm to summon any remaining guards from areas 
16 (who arrive in 2 rounds). If all else fails, the “Gob- 
lin King” grabs a battleaxe leaning next to the throne to 
defend himself, wielding it with two hands (+2 to hit, 
5 [1d10] slashing damage). The guards are four goblin 
warriors (see appendix B) and since they are the elite of 
the tribe, each has maximum hit points (21). The unfor- 
tunate kneeling goblin is being punished for being lazy. 
Assuming a fight breaks out here, it pulls a dagger (+4 to 
hit, range 20/60 ft., 4 [1d4 + 2] piercing damage) and 
joins the fray. 




Behind a tapestry along the north wall is a secret door 
that requires a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to locate. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Inves- 
tigation) check is needed to discern how to trigger the 
release to open the door. There is a hidden catch that 
needs to be released, before the door pivots open on a 
central bar. The door is trapped, which is revealed by a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The trap 
can be disabled with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 
16 Dexterity check. If triggered, a block falls out of the 
ceiling, and a target trying to open the door must suc- 
ceed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take®7 (2d6) 
bludgeoning damage. 




Centered on the west wall is another secret door. This one 
can be discovered with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Per- 
ception) check, and once located can be easily opened. 
There are four peepholes along the west wall at various 
heights. Detecting these from this side requires a success- 
ful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check. These are 
used by Gurtella in area 19 to spy on the throne room. 




The throne is set with 12 crude pieces of blue quartz (50 
gp each). Three of the tapestries are worthless, torn or ru- 




ined by mold. However, a successful DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check reveals the tapestry covering the se- 
cret door to area 18 is in good shape (150 gp). 




AREA 18 — TREASURE ROOM 




The secret door opens to reveal a dark 20-foot-by-20-foot 
chamber. Three large chests are pushed up against the north- 
ern wall. 




The goblin tribe has amassed quite a bit of treasure and 
most of it is stored here, except for the amount removed 
by Gurtella and stored in area 19. The chests are all locked 
with large padlocks. Gurtella has hidden the keys in area 
19. Each lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a suc- 
cessful DC 17 Dexterity check or forced open with a le- 
ver and a successful DC 20 Strength check. 




Chest #1: 2,560 sp, 441 ep, and 876 gp. 




Chest #2: 17 copper ingots (20 gp each), three peridots 
(500 gp each), and a teak box carved with an underwater 
motif (125 gp) that holds a leather pouch of 12 obsidian 
game pieces (25 gp each). 




Chest #3: Four bolts of silk (200 gp each), a silver-han- 
dled magnifying glass (175 gp), an electrum-framed oval 
mirror (450 gp), and a red dragon-hide diary set with tiny 
rubies (675 gp) and filled with sappy Gnomish poetry. 




There is a secret false bottom in the third chest that can 
be found with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. Inside is a folded cloak of protection, a potion of bill 
giant strength in a crystal vial (85 gp), and two loose spell 
scrolls (blink and water breathing). 




The secret door on the west wall can be located with a 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Once 
found it can be easily pushed opened. It leads to a short 
corridor and another secret door that requires a successful 




DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. 




AREA 19 — TRUE THRONE ROOM 




DM Note: The only way into this chamber is via secret 
doors. It is unlikely that the characters can arrive here un- 
announced, so the occupants are ready for the intrusion. 




The floor of this 40-foot-by-50-foot chamber is covered with 


a stained rug. At the western end of the chamber is a pile of 
grimy pillows. Lounging on the pillows is a flabby goblinoid 
wearing chain mail and eating meat from a silver platter. 


Five goblinoid guards stand nearby, ready for action. 




This is the hidden sanctuary of Gurtella, the goblin 




queen (see appendix B). She is attended by five pow- 
erful female goblin warriors (see appendix B) wield- 
ing longswords with two hands (+3 to hit, 6 [1d10 + 1] 
slashing damage). Assuming Gurtella has been alerted to 
the intrusion (from spying on area 17 via the peepholes), 
her lounging posture is a ruse to get the characters to let 
down their guard. She speaks Common and wishes to 
bargain with the characters, unless she feels confident she 
can overcome them. She offers the characters their choice 
of three pieces of her jewelry in exchange for her life and 
the safety of her tribe. This is but a deception, as she is 
hoping more goblins are on the way. Eventually, she grabs 
her +J battleaxe hidden in the pillows and attacks with 
reckless abandon. She and her goblin guards fight to the 
death! 




Along the east wall are four peepholes that are used to 
spy on the false throne room (area 17). The secret door 
on the north wall requires a successful DC 18 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to locate. The release is hidden in a 
2-inch slot that can be tripped with a dagger blade or the 
tip of a sword. This can be deduced with a successful DC 
14 Intelligence (Investigation) check. 




The pillows are silk but have become ruined and stained. 
There are two animal pelts that are still valuable but need 
a thorough cleaning first: a silver fox pelt (600 gp) and a 
cave bear pelt (350 gp). Gurtella wears too much gaudy 
jewelry, which includes seven rings, six earrings, six brace- 
lets, and three necklaces. The total value of these pieces is 
1,650 gp. There is also a silver platter (75 gp) and a silver 
chalice (175 gp) among the pillows. 




AREA 20 - WEAPON STOREROOM 
This oblong cavern is about 40 feet long and 30 feet wide 




and appears to be a storeroom. Several crates are stacked 
along the west wall. Along the east wall are three open casks 
full of javelins. Centered on the north wall is a stone box 
with a flat slab top. Hanging from pegs in a northeastern 




niche are numerous suits of scale mail armor. 




This chamber is used to store weapons for the goblin 
tribe. There are eight crates, each holding 10 shortswords 
and 20 leather slings. Each open-ended cask holds 30 
javelins. In the niche are 15 suits of scale mail sized for 
(Small) goblins. Removing the lid of the stone box re- 
quires a successful DC 15 Strength check, but a second 
character can use the Help action to assist. Inside are six 
wooden racks, each holding six clay vials. Each vial con- 
tains one application of basic poison (see p. 153 of the 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Players Handbook). Also, in the stone box is a poison- 
ous snake that attacks with surprise if not first noticed 
with a successful Wisdom (Perception) contest against 
the snake’s Dexterity check. 




On the northwest wall is a secret door that can be located 
with a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. It 
leads to a short corridor that ends at another secret door; 
this second door can automatically be found from this 
side and opens to area 16. 




On the east wall is a secret door that can be located with a 
successful DC 21 Wisdom (Perception) check. The door 
can be opened by pulling down the only peg in the near- 
by niche that doesn’t have a suit of armor hanging from 
it. This can be discerned with a successful DC 15 Intelli- 
gence (Investigation) check. Beyond the door lies a short 
corridor leading to a trapdoor in the floor; it is unlocked 
and is a secret route to the Hobgoblin Stronghold (see 
area 11 on level 3). 




AREA 21 — SHRINE TO THE SNAKE GOD 




This large area is at least 60 feet long and 40 feet wide, with 
a cavernous ceiling overhead. At the opposite end of the hall 
is a crude stone altar, stained dark crimson. Behind the altar, 
a single wiry goblinoid wearing studded leather armor and 
brandishing a wooden staff carved into the shape of a snake 
head leads a congregation of kneeling goblins in a chant. The 
walls are covered with paintings of goblins worshiping a vari- 
ety of serpents. Situated on the wall behind the altar is a stone 
door carved in the likeness of a hooded cobra about to strike. 




The goblin snake shaman (see appendix B) is leading a 
ceremony for nine goblins dedicated to a foul snake god. 
All are enthralled in the ceremony, and although the sha- 
man has a normal chance to detect an intrusion, the con- 
gregation has disadvantage on any Wisdom (Perception) 
checks to discover the characters. A flying snake hovers 
near the shaman, its trusted ally and companion. The fly- 
ing snake is used to send messages to the hobgoblins on 
level 3, or to the hobgoblins stationed at the Temple of 
Zargon (see chapter 6, area K). 




Once alerted, the goblins require a round to get their 
bearings before drawing weapons and attacking. The sha- 
man hangs back behind the altar (which counts as half 
cover) and uses spells such as poison spray or thorn whip 
to attack. He uses the spell scroll stored in the altar to cast 
hold person on an obvious arcane spellcaster. When the 




shaman enters melee, he uses his staff of the adder. If he 




Re 




=e 




es " pea Se ee 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SSE SPS TS INNES RC TET 




thinks he can make an escape, he flees to the snake door 
and uses an action to open it (he is aware of the trigger’s 
location; see below), fleeing to area 22. The door auto- 
matically shuts immediately after he passes through it. 




The altar is stained with blood. On the opposite side is 
a hollowed cavity that can be easily located. It holds a 
leather waterskin nearly full of basic poison (17 applica- 
tions; see p. 153 of the Players Handbook), a spell scroll of 
hold person, and a silvered, curved dagger set with pieces 
of jet in its blade (300 gp). Along the west wall is a stone 
table, covered with clay sculpting tools and 11 dried clay 
vials with cork stoppers suitable for holding poison. Next 
to the table is a battered metal urn that contains dried 
powdery clay and a small cask holding 3 gallons of water. 
If the clay powder is mixed with water at the correct ratio 
it can be used to sculpt waterproof vials or containers. 




The stone door is locked but there is no key. The only 
way to open the door is for a creature to place its hand 
into the snake’s mouth and trigger a release button. This 
causes the mouth to snap shut, and if unaware where to 
place its hand when it shuts, the target must succeed on a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be bitten for 1 piercing 
damage. If rushing to open the door (such as racing to 
follow the shaman) the creature has disadvantage on the 
saving throw. A bitten target must then succeed on a DC 
14 Constitution saving throw or suffer 10 (3d6) poison 
damage and become poisoned for 6 hours. The door can 
be opened with a knock spell, or by picking with thieves’ 
tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. (Note that 
a failed pick attempt triggers the trap.) The door stays 
open long enough for one creature to pass through, then 
shuts and re-locks automatically. 




Developments. If it appears the characters have the up- 
per hand, the shaman uses animal messenger on its flying 
snake companion and orders it to alert the hobgoblins on 
level 3. The snake flies up to the ceiling 25 feet overhead 
to make its escape, and then hastens to level 3 to alert the 




hobgoblin warlord. 
AREA 22 — TOMB OF THE SNAKE GOD 




The corridor slopes down while twisting to the east. The air 
here is colder and damp, with a faint musky smell. The cor- 
ridor ends in a 25-foot-diameter rough-hewn chamber. The 
floor is a tangled mess of bleached bones. At the opposite side 
of the room is a natural flat-topped boulder, behind an open 
pit perhaps 5 feet across. Sitting on the boulder is a jade 
carved statuette of a coiled snake about to strike. 




ALI YIN PE SG ARV REN 




SAORI LI IATL NOTE SOT TTI IT A A TET: TT 




a 




This is the tomb of the snake god that is venerated by the 
goblin shaman—but feared by the goblin rabble. The snake 
god is Magda, a spirit naga transformed into a bone naga 
ages ago. She speaks Goblin and whispers terrible things to 
the shaman, who is completely under her sway. She sens- 
es the characters’ arrival and exits the pit with a hypnotic 
dance. Her eyes burn with an unholy green fire and as she 
undulates her brittle form snaps and clicks of bone on bone. 




Her hatred for non-goblinoid humanoids is fierce, so af- 
ter a short exchange of threats (and liberal use of detect 
thoughts to learn about her foes), she unleashes a fury of 
spells. She starts with Aightning bolt, and then hold person 
targeting able-bodied warrior-types. She reserves sleep for 
weak-looking arcane spellcasters or obvious rogue-types. 
If all else fails, she resorts to bite attacks, and being an 
undead creature, she fights until destroyed. 




The walls are covered with paintings of a race of nagas 
dominating a human population. The pit is 20 feet deep, 
although half-filled with bones. A fall into the pit causes 
3 (1d6) bludgeoning plus 3 (1d6) piercing damage from 




the sharp bone fragments. 




The jade statuette is worth 4,000 gp. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




HOBGOBLIN STRONGHOLD 
(LEVEL 3) 




Level 3 of the cave system is the stronghold ofa militaristic 
tribe of hobgoblins. They are well-trained, well-equipped 
since they have their own forge, and disciplined. As such, 
the cult of Zargon has an agreement with the tribe to 
act as enforcers for them. The hobgoblins enjoy the pur- 
pose, respect, and coin this arrangement provides. Plus, 
they get to use their weapon training often, and bully the 
weak. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Hobgoblin Weapons. These hobgoblins prefer to wield 
war picks (+3 to hit, 5 [1d8 + 1] piercing damage) or 
battleaxes (+3 to hit, 5 [1d8 + 1] slashing damage, or 6 
[1d10 + 1] slashing damage if used with two hands). As 
for ranged weapons, the hobgoblins prefer heavy cross- 
bows (+3 to hit, range 100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] piercing 
damage). 




Construction. The hobgoblin stronghold consists of nat- 
ural passages that have been worked and are now smooth, 




~~ WS SSS oN 
PSSA SSNS ET a PS wen 
% My ue ~ Ww _— } hin i SS 




> .9- 




\ 
AVS 
Waa | | 
ZS te 


\ 




BN 
= 




NS 
= 




N 




<4, a 
Regt 




<4 
~~ 
—= 
J] 
ij 




ox WG (in 
4 EY 
“e. 




ANE; 




“Gh 




Bi a NG ‘ON Le 




Al 




hese) = 


=; 


Ax 
ay 
= + 




zk 




= * 2 




est 




ve "hi 




hd a 




U 




ae 9 4 




5: 
SS 




NT 




Bry 




iz 




“> 




1OKanuoy 12}eM 




Benn =n 




>) 




Ve 
ah. A Oe 




rr SANA 
NE 
ia we NY 




IR 
> 




ya = ee 


a i nko 
| | es 
Ae 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




SIC ecoe ¥ 




finished stonework, with mostly angular chambers. The 
walls are rough-hewn, unless otherwise described, and 
the floors are smooth although occasionally uneven. The 
floors are free of stone debris and kept clean. Hobgoblin 
guards are instructed to clean the rooms and corridors as 
part of their training. 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are well below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid 
locations. The air is still dry here, but the humidity in- 
creases as the characters delve deeper and closer to the 
underground lake. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 8 
to 10 feet high, while room ceilings are on average 8 to 12 
feet high. Exceptions include area 7 and area 16. 




Doors. There are many doors in the hobgoblin strong- 
hold. All are stone (AC 17, 35 hit points, vulnerability 
to bludgeoning damage, resistance to piercing and slash- 
ing damage) and push inward to open. A door that is 
barred or stuck can be burst open with a successful DC 
17 Strength check. A locked door can be forced open 
with a successful DC 21 Strength check. 




Portcullis. Located in the western corridor en route to 
areas 15-17 is a stout iron portcullis. The lever to control 
the portcullis is easily located along the northern wall just 
west of the door to area 5. The lever requires about 20 
pounds of pressure to move, so a mage hand spell is un- 
able to manipulate it. The bars can be lifted with a suc- 
cessful DC 22 Strength (Athletics) check or bent apart 
wide enough for a Medium-sized creature to slip through 
with a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check. A 




second character can Help with either of these checks. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the hobgoblin stronghold is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. A troop of four hobgoblins 
armed with halberds (+3 to hit, reach 10 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] 
slashing damage) actively patrols most chambers of the 
stronghold. These hobgoblins lack shields (AC 16). They 
conduct a regular patrol from the entrance corridor (area 
1) through the main hallway passing by areas 5 through 
7, into the mess hall (area 8) and storeroom (area 9), and 
then all the way to check on the prisoners (area 15) and 
the forge (area 16). Once complete, they retrace their 
route. All told, it takes about 30 minutes to perform the 
deliberate march. When in the entrance hall they make 




sure the floor is clean and there is no obvious evidence of 
their passage through any of the secret doors, so as to lure 
intruders to the trapped false door at area 4. 




KEY TO LEVEL 3 (MAPS 27 & 28) 




AREA 1 — TRAPPED CORRIDOR 




A plain-looking corridor with smooth, finished walls extends 
for at least 120 feet. 




A thin, nearly invisible ankle-high tripwire is placed about 
20 feet from the cave entrance. The tripwire is difficult to 
notice, requiring a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) check to discover. If tripped, it doesn’t appear to do 
anything. However, it rings tiny bells in areas 2 and 3, 
alerting the guards. Just past the tripwire is a peephole on 
the south wall that is actively watched by a hobgoblin in 
area 2, so even if the tripwire is discovered and bypassed it 
is likely the characters are detected entering via this route. 




As indicated on the map there are three black iron port- 
cullises. The first is usually in the down position. The 
portcullis can be lifted (a second character can use the 
Help action to assist) with a successful DC 20 Strength 




Psd 


Ui WN 
A) 


RS ‘| 




eer * eam = NN 
Md at’ 2 ee 




eZ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




um creature to squeeze through with a successful DC 23 
Strength check. The controls for all the portcullises are in 
area 2. A hobgoblin can trigger a portcullis to fall manu- 
ally by throwing a lever. A character under the portcullis 
when it falls must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or suffer 10 (3dG6) piercing damage and become 
restrained. Success indicates the character leapt away in 
time, but note the player needs to specify in which direc- 
tion, as two concealed pits are present in the hallway. 




As indicated on the map, there are two 10-foot-square 
covered pits in the corridor. Each can be detected with a 
successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. They are 
both 20 feet deep and falling into one causes 7 (2d6) 
bludgeoning damage. A pit is triggered by placing 20 or 
more pounds of weight on it. The pits can be manually 
locked from the control room (area 2). Breaking through 
a locked pit requires a successful DC 20 Strength check, 
or the pit lid (which is reinforced wood painted to appear 
as stone) can be smashed with a weapon (AC 15, 10 hit 
points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage). 




The walls between the portcullises are lined with eight 
murder slits concealed by gray canvas. It requires a suc- 
cessful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check to notice 
these before they are used. The guards in areas 2 and 3 
use these slits to attack targets with their halberds. The 
attackers are granted three-quarters cover but, due to the 
angle, all their attack rolls are made with disadvantage. 




Developments. Assuming the characters are detected, 
the guards in areas 2 and 3 are ready. They wait to drop 
the portcullises, attempting to harm a character or at least 
split the party. Two hobgoblins in area 2 operate the levers 
for the portcullises and pit lids. Meanwhile, guards open 
the secret doors in the niches and take position to deploy 
crossbows while using the edge as half cover. Four hob- 
goblins from area 3 exit the room and circle around to the 
westernmost secret door and take up positions in those 
niches, also armed with crossbows and plenty of bolts. 




AREA 2 - CONTROL ROOM 




DM Note: The only entrance to this room is behind a 
secret door that requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to locate. If the peephole in area 1 is 
discovered or if the party was attacked through the slits 
from area 2, the check to find the secret door is made 
with advantage. 




This 20-foot-wide chamber is about 50 feet long. A wooden 
table and several chairs are positioned in the center of the 




room. Along the south wall, six halberds are carefully placed. 




A sealed cask rests in the southeastern corner of the room. 




This is a guardroom, typically occupied by seven hob- 
goblins. It is likely that the hobgoblins attacked when 
the characters entered area 1. If the characters somehow 
surprise these troops, they are lounging about the room, 
talking, sharpening weapons, or playing games of chance. 




The table and chairs are normal. The cask is filled with 
water, and nearby is a ladle used to drink it. Along the 
north wall are four murder slits covered with canvas. 
Also, along the north wall are five levers. Three control 
the portcullises in area 1 and the other two control the 
lids of the pit traps in area 1. A creature can spend one 
action to move two levers. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. On the table is a random as- 
sortment of coins used for betting: 131 sp, 12 ep, and 18 gp. 




AREA 3 - GUARDROOM 




DM Note: There is an entrance to this room hidden 
behind a secret door that requires a successful DC 20 
Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. If the party was 
attacked through the slits from area 3, the check to find 
the secret door is made with advantage. 




This spartan chamber is 20 feet wide and 60 feet long. 


Propped up along the north wall are 10 halberds. At the 
far end of the room is a battered crate sporting three holes of 
various sizes. A collection of smooth rocks is scattered around 
the base of the crate. 




This is another guardroom. Typically, nine hobgoblins 
are stationed here. It is likely that the hobgoblins at- 
tacked when the characters entered area 1. If the char- 
acters somehow surprise these troops, they are lounging 
about the room, talking, sharpening weapons, or play- 
ing a game of skill they call “Rockhole” that utilizes the 
crate with holes. The object of the game is to toss rocks of 
various sizes into the holes, which also vary in size. More 
points are awarded for larger rocks and/or smaller holes. 
Bets are placed inside the box and awarded to the overall 
winner of the round or game. Scattered about the base of 
the crate are 17 rocks, roughly of three sizes. The small 
rocks are painted with a “1,” medium rocks have a “2,” 
and the large rocks a “4.” 




Along the south wall are four murder slits that can be 
used to attack targets in the entrance hallway (area 1). 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. Inside the box are 54 sp 




and 17 gp—wagers from an interrupted match. 




AREA 4 —- TRAPPED FALSE DOOR 




The corridor ends at an empty chamber measuring about 20 
feet by 30 feet. Centered on the opposite wall is wooden door: 
Along the north wall is a dented metal gong attached to a 
ramshackle frame with pieces of leather. 




The gong is normal, although a baton to strike it is no- 
where to be found. The frame is worthless but the gong 
itself would fetch 20 gp. If the gong is struck, it alerts the 
occupants of areas 5 (immediately to the north) and 7. 




The wooden door is false and trapped. The trap can be 
detected with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. The trigger mechanism is complicated, so before an 
attempt to disable the trap occurs, a successful DC 15 In- 
telligence (Investigation) check is required. Only then can 
a DC 18 Dexterity check with thieves’ tools be attempted 
to disable the trap. If triggered, the spring-loaded door flies 
open toward the north wall. The target opening the door 
must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 
(3d6) bludgeoning damage and be thrown into the north 
wall, crashing into the gong (unless it has been moved). If 
the save is successful, the target avoids the door by leaping 
back, but now is in the line of fire for four spring-loaded 
javelins that are launched down the corridor towards the 
entrance. Each javelin makes a ranged weapon attack with 
a +6 bonus to hit, a range of 30/120 ft., and causing 6 (1d6 
+ 3) piecing damage on a hit. The trap must be manually 
reset, a process that takes about 30 minutes. 




AREA 5 - GUARDROOM 




DM Note: There are four of these identical guardrooms. 
For variety, the DM can determine the number of hobgob- 
lins present in each by rolling randomly (1d4 + 4) when a 
room is entered, or by assuming a default number of six. 




The door opens to reveal a 30-foot-by-30-foot room. In the 
center of the room is a round table surrounded by four chairs. 
Along the walls are a total of 12 simple beds. On the walls 
are various pegs holding shields, helmets, and weapons such 
as longswords, war picks, and heavy crossbows. 




Each of these barracks is designed for 12 hobgoblins. 
At any given time, at most six are present; others are sta- 
tioned elsewhere in the stronghold, in the Lost City, or 
running an errand. The rooms are spotless, and all the 
furnishings are mundane. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. In addition, each bed has 
a small storage chest underneath. These contain mun- 
dane items, perhaps the occasional dagger, and 2d4 x 10 
gp in assorted coins or other small valuables. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE 




Development. If a general alarm is raised or the charac- 
ters make noise near one of these chambers, these guards 
hasten to investigate as appropriate. 




AREA 6 - WEAPON STORAGE 




This 40-foot-by-30-foot room appears to be a storeroom. 
Hanging on the north and east walls are numerous weapons 
in pristine condition. A metal rack along the west wall cra- 
dles several heavy crossbows. Several flat wooden crates are 
nearby and propped up in one corner are several longswords. 




This chamber indeed serves as a weapons storeroom for 
the stronghold. On the north wall hang 30 battleaxes, 
while the east wall is covered with 20 war picks. The metal 
rack holds 15 heavy crossbows. There are 10 longswords 
in the corner of the room. There are six flat crates; five 
each hold 50 heavy crossbow bolts with red fletching, 
and the sixth holds 60 replacement crossbow strings and 
a small box of tools for the upkeep of crossbows. 




Lost City 




AREA 7 — TRAINING HALL 




DM Note: As the characters approach this chamber, they 
hear sounds of battle and guttural shouts and commands 




in Goblin. The door is slightly ajar. 




Peering through the cracked door, you spy an expansive hall 
with a vaulted ceiling, stretching to 30 feet overhead. The 
chamber must be at least 80 feet long and 50 feet wide. Sev- 
eral armor-clad hobgoblins are sparring against each other, as 
another wearing gleaming half plate armor issues commands. 
The far end of the room is separated by bars, forming a cage. 
Three white apes rattle the bars and growl as the training ses- 
sion unfolds just outside the reach of their simian claws. 




This hall is used as a training room to hone the tribe’s 
weapon skills. Currently, four hobgoblins face off 
against each other wielding longswords, while a hobgob- 
lin captain observes. The captain is in a foul mood and is 
harshly critiquing their lack of skill with the blades. The 
hobgoblins are engrossed in their training session, so all 
Wisdom (Perception) checks to notice the characters are 
made with disadvantage. If combat breaks out here, the 
hobgoblin troopers advance, eager to display their prow- 




can een TERY ES SSN TASTE 




sors, 




“easement SR aE = 




ts 5 : Mr na BAT ethene —_ ART RcA ERIE 2TH Te TT 5 L 
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ess with longswords. Meanwhile, the hobgoblin captain 
retreats to the caged apes, grabbing a heavy crossbow on 
the floor while en route. He lets a bolt fly, and then on his 
next turn spends an action pulling a lever that opens the 
cage, releasing the bloodthirsty apes. 




The three apes are carnivorous white apes. Use the ape 
statistics but with improved Strength 18 (+4), Athletics 
(+6), and Fist (+6 to hit, 7 [1d6 + 4] bludgeoning dam- 




age) attack, and the following new action: 




Improvised Weapon Throw: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to 
hit, range 10/30 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing or 




bludgeoning damage, as appropriate to the item thrown. 




The carnivorous white apes are kept as pets and combat- 
ants by the hobgoblins. They are mistreated, and eager 
to kill. These three apes fear the hobgoblin captain and 
refuse to attack him—but have no similar fear of the 
other hobgoblin rabble present. They wade into combat 
randomly attacking characters and hobgoblins alike. They 
have no rocks to throw, but as they close for melee, they 
might (50%) pick up a discarded weapon (an axe or club, 
or perhaps a crossbow) and awkwardly throw it at a target. 




Along the south wall are four archery targets littered 
with holes. Nearby, six well-used crossbows rest next to 
an open barrel full of bolts. Along the north wall are 10 
wooden mannequins used for combat training, splin- 
tered and battered. Hanging on the walls are a variety of 
weapons, such as longswords, shortswords, spears, quar- 
terstaffs, maces, and flails. Several of these weapons are 
scattered on the floor as well, being used during the cur- 
rent training session. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. The captain carries 6d6 
gp and a silvered dagger with inlaid gold on its blade (125 
gp). One of the apes sports a leather collar set with six 
tiny rubies (100 gp each). 




Developments. The hobgoblins and apes fight to the 
death. Since there is usually combat-related noise coming 
from this chamber, nearby guards to not respond to any 
commotion, assuming it’s just practice. 




AREA 8 — MESS HALL 




The door opens to reveal a brightly lit, 50-foot-square cham- 
ber. Several stone tables lined with rough, uncomfortable- 
looking stone benches occupy the room. Along the north wall 
is a large hearth with a roaring fire. Situated over the greedy 
flames is a beast, slow-roasting and charred beyond recogni- 
tion. Several closed doors exit this chamber. 




This location is acommunal mess hall for the stronghold. 
There is a 40% chance that 1d4 + 2 off-duty hobgoblins 
are here “tending” to the roast, gathered at a stone table 
discussing a random topic. Just because these troops are 
off-duty doesn’t mean they are not ready for battle. All 
wear armor and carry war picks, but no heavy crossbows. 
If they need improvised weapons, they grab nearby pots, 
pans, or cutlery for use (+3 to hit, 2 [1d4] damage of a 
type appropriate to the item). One hobgoblin tries to flee 
out the west door to summon help from the nearby guard- 
room. The others attack, using the tables as half cover or 
to gain a tactical advantage. One might attempt to shove a 
target into the hearth, which causes 2 (1d4) bludgeoning 
damage and 2 (1d4) fire damage. 




The stone tables and benches are normal and as uncom- 
fortable as they appear. Along the north wall are several 
metal shelves holding myriad pots, pans, and vicious- 
looking knives and cleavers (treat as daggers if used in 
combat). Dangling from the metal shelves are numerous 
bundles of herbs and spices, some of them valuable. A 
successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation or Nature) 
check reveals three bundles each worth 12 gp. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. The beast roasting in the 
hearth is a giant lizard. 




AREA 9 —- STOREROOM 




This somewhat small chamber is piled high with crates. Sev- 
eral casks also rest along the northeast corner. 




This is another storeroom, although this one is dedicat- 
ed to foodstuffs for the stronghold. There are 20 crates, 
most of which contain a variety of dried meats, nasty 
hard cheeses, and stale bread. Two crates lined with leath- 
er hold salted fish. There are six casks, although one is 
smaller than the rest. Three casks (25 gallons each) con- 
tain poor quality ale. Two casks (25 gallons each) contain 
untainted water. The small cask (5 gallons) is nearly full 
of salt. Hidden in the salt is a pouch containing a stone 
key with a hexagon head that unlocks the secret door. 
Unless the salt is dumped out, locating the key requires a 
successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. 




Behind the casks is a secret door that requires a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. Although 
relatively easy to find, the secret door is locked. A small 
hexagon-shaped keyhole in the stone can be located with 
a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The 
door can be unlocked with the key, or with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. A knock spell 
would do the trick as well. 




AREA 10 — WATER STORAGE 




This 20-foot-square chamber is dominated by an 8-foot-di- 
ameter bowl-like metal cistern with an open top, sitting on 
four short legs. A wooden ladder is pushed against one of its 
sides, Along the north wall are six large buckets carved out of 
woody fungal toadstool caps complete with leather carrying 
straps. Crouched in opposite sides of the room are three feral 
humanoids that appear to be twisted mockeries of goblinoid 
flesh. They sport gangly arms ending in dirty black claws and 
black greasy hair in a tangled mess. 




The hobgoblin warlord Khalkhan has managed to lure 
three thouls (see appendix B) from their lair below (see 
level 4) to serve the stronghold with the promise of fresh 
corpses to feed on. They will eventually be assigned of- 
ficial quarters, but for now they live here in the water 
storage room. As such they are responsible for collecting 
water from the wheel and hauling it here for storage in 
the cistern. The thouls are unarmed, but their craving of 
fresh flesh is insatiable, so they attack with claws. They 
fight to the death. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




The cistern holds about 150 gallons and is currently half 
full. There is a spigot on the north side for easy removal, 
but the only way to fill the vessel is to lug water from the 
water wheel (outside of Cave F). Water is then moved 
throughout the stronghold as needed, with the smithy 
accounting for much of it. At the bottom of the cistern 
is a discarded blue tourmaline (500 gp), but it requires a 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to notice. 




There is a secret door on the east wall that can be located 
with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
Once found it can be easily pushed open from below. On 
the other side is a corridor that eventually leads to the 
ledge. A rock conceals this entrance and requires a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Strength check to move to the side. Rest- 
ing in this corridor is an unlocked wooden chest. Inside is 
a collection of finger bones, 112 gp, and six rings. Three 
are silver (worth 45 gp, 75 gp, and 150 gp, respectively), 
one is electrum (400 gp), and one is gold set with an 
emerald (650 gp). The last is an unadorned bronze band 
that is a ring of warmth. 




AREA 11 — HIDDEN CHAMBER 




DM Note: The door to this room is locked and only 
Khalkhan has the key. It can be picked with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 18 Dexterity check. 




This circular chamber is perhaps 30 feet across. On the oppo- 
site wall is a metal staircase leading to the ceiling and what 
appears to be a trapdoor. In the center of the room is a large 
metal ring sunk into the stone floor. Chained to the ring 
are three twisted humanoids in tattered loincloths covering 
pallid skin. Although each is limited in movement due to a 
length of chain, their eyes flicker with piercing hatred at your 
arrival, and they lunge to attack. 




This hidden chamber contains a trapdoor in the ceiling that 
leads up to level 2 of the goblin lair. The guardians main- 
tained here are more to prevent a goblin incursion than to 
prevent any from traveling to the goblin lair from here. 




The guardians are three ghouls, each bound to a 15-foot 
length of chain. They can move about the chamber but 
can't leave. The chain is stout, requiring a successful DC 
20 Strength check to burst. If taunted with ranged at- 
tacks, grant each ghoul an action to attempt to burst its 
chain as it tries to get to its prey. These mindless undead 
fight until destroyed. 




ee nner 




ee 




oricinaL L ADVENTURES: REIRCA RATED ° THE Lost Cay 




Ss eS ee 




2 a Nl 




AREA 12 — CAPTAIN’S QUARTERS 




DM Note: There is a secret door at the end of the hallway 
to these three rooms. It can be located with a success- 
ful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. The door easily 
swings inward to a 10-foot-square antechamber. There is 
another secret door here, but it is obvious from this side. 
It leads to area 13. 




The three chambers are identical. One of the hobgoblin 
captains is in area 7. If a captain is here, he is likely resting 
(40%), tending to armor and weapons (40%), or taking 
a meal (20%). If resting, he is not wearing armor—it’s 
hanging on the rack—so his AC is 12. Adjust the read- 




aloud text as needed: 




This 20-foot-by-20-foot chamber is neat and clean with 
a smooth floor and ceiling. A simple bed and footlocker 
are pushed along the east wall. Hanging over the bed is a 
greatsword. Near the bed is a metal rack designed to hold a 
suit of armor. A leather quiver holding several javelins rests 
on the rack. 




Each of these identical chambers is the private room for a 
hobgoblin captain. The bed and footlocker are normal, 
and the latter is unlocked. Each footlocker contains spare 
clothes, mundane objects (a whetstone, diary, or some 
such), and a bit of personal wealth: 




Western chamber: 47 gp and a potion of luck (see ap- 
pendix A) 




Central chamber: 84 ep, a silver mask of a fox (225 gp), 
and an empty crystal perfume vial shaped like a songbird 




(15 gp) 
Eastern chamber: 25 gp, 5 pp, and a +/ dagger 




AREA 13 —- MEETING HALL 




This immense chamber is about 60 feet long and 50 feet 
wide. A massive stone table occupies the center of the room. 
Along the south wall is a massive black metal gong resting on 
a metal stand. Flanking the gong on racks are two ornate sets 




of plate armor, holding halberds. 




This chamber serves as a meeting room for the strong- 
hold. It is here that the warlord Khalkhan addresses his 
captains and the rank and file troops to issues his orders. 
The table is used to display battle plans and new tactics 
to work on. 




The suits of armor are fancy plate armor, sized for a Medi- 
um humanoid. Due to the craftsmanship and embellish- 




ments (gold gilding, ee and silk lining) each suit is 




cee We EE aI 




= TaN I OE STS Se 




worth 2,000 gp. The gong is fashioned from a fire giant’s 
shield. Although it weighs 75 pounds, it would fetch 250 




gp to a collector. The halberds are normal and functional. 




There is a secret door in the north wall. It can be de- 
tected with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. Once found, it can be easily opened, leading to a 
10-foot-square closet. On the opposite wall of the closet 
is another secret door, but from this side it can be auto- 
matically found and opened. 




Developments. If the gong is sounded (a club is stashed 
behind one of the suits of armor), the entire stronghold— 
save for areas 16, 17, and the area 5 near those locations— 
and any remaining hobgoblins hasten to this chamber, ar- 
riving in waves assuming this is some type of drill. 




AREA 14 - WARLORD’S PRIVATE 
CHAMBER 




This 40-foot-by-20-foot chamber features a metal-framed 
bed covered with sheets and blankets. At the foot of the bed is 
a wooden chest with iron bands and a large padlock. A table 
and two chairs rest against the north wall. In the southeast 
corner of the room is a metal rack suitable for a suit of armor. 




This is the private chamber of Khalkhan, a hobgoblin 
warlord and the supreme commander of this stronghold. 
He is cruel and demanding (but fair), and he runs his 
stronghold with an iron fist. He has the respect of his 
troopers, and they would gladly die in his service. He 
wields a +2 longsword (+11 to hit, 9 [1d8 + 5] slashing 
damage, or 10 [1d10 + 5] slashing damage if used with 
two hands) he calls Paramelle. He also carries a +/ shield 
(AC 21) and a potion of heroism, which he quaffs at the 
first sign that battle is inevitable. If combat occurs he first 
shouts an alarm, summoning the guards from the nearby 
area 5. They arrive in 2 rounds via the secret door, ready 




for battle. The hobgoblins all fight to the death. 
The chest is locked and Khalkhan has the only key. The 




lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful 
DC 17 Dexterity check. Inside the chest are the follow- 
ing items: a thunderherder-hide sack (60 gp) holding 
150 pp, a red dragon-hide pouch inlaid with gold thread 
and a gold chain drawstring (375 gp) holding four fire 
opals (worth 1,000 gp each, although one is flawed and 
only worth 250 gp), a circlet of blasting, and metal scroll 
tube set with tiny aquamarines (200 gp) holding two spell 
scrolls. One scroll is inscribed with fireball and the other 
with wall of fire. 




The secret door on the south wall is fabricated from wood 
painted gray, and is quite easy to find, only requiring a 
successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check. It leads 
to a hallway with another secret door (also wood) which 
can be automatically found from this side. It leads to the 
nearby guardroom. The wooden doors facilitate the travel 
of sound for alerting purposes. 




The secret door on the north wall is cunningly disguised, 
requiring a successful DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check 
to locate. The secret door leads to a storage closet that is 
20 feet long by 10 feet wide. This is where the hobgoblins 




keep their treasure. It includes: 




¢ Three unlocked wooden chests reinforced with iron 
bands. Each chest holds 1,000 gp (salaries to pay the 
troops). 




*A crate holding 10 drow-made black metal +/ 
shortswords. f exposed to sunlight for more than 1 hour, 
these weapons lose their enchantment bonus. 




* A crate holding five adamantine bars (2,000 gp each) 
that weigh 25 pounds each. 




° Three full casks (25 gallons each) of fine stout duergar 
ale (250 gp each). 




° A silk-lined silver casket (250 gp) holding a spellbook. 
The spellbook contains the following spells (and plenty 
of empty pages): animate objects, arcane eye, blink, fear, 
ty, haste, polymorph, stone shape, and water breathing. 




Developments. If reduced to 10 hit points or fewer, 
Khalkhan flees through the secret door in the south wall. 
If it has not been opened (and thus the guards did not en- 
ter through it), he bursts through the door, gladly taking 
1d3 bludgeoning damage. He flees to area 5, rousing the 
guards (if they are present), and if he has time, proceeds 
to throw the lever opening the portcullis. He hastens to 
area 17 to make his final stand there. 




AREA 15 — BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT 




DM Note: Once the door to this area is opened, the 
characters are assaulted by the stench of rotting organic 
material and death. The short corridor leads to the bot- 
tom of a natural sinkhole. 




As you reach the end of the corridor the stench is nearly over- 
powering. The source of the awful smell is a garbage heap at 
least 10 feet high in a shaft about 30 to 40 feet in diameter. 
This appears to be the bottom of the shaft. High overhead, 
the shaft extends into darkness. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City ¥ 




This is the bottom of the shaft that originates at area 7 
on level 1. That area is 120 feet overhead. The goblins 
on level 1 above toss their garbage here, and the hobgob- 
lins on this level also deposit waste here. The walls here 
are somewhat smooth and require a successful DC 20 




Strength (Athletics) check to climb. 




A pair of carrion crawlers make their lair in a crevasse 
about 40 feet above the trash heap. They feed on the 
abundant giant rats up above (none that wander down 
here survives long) and rummage through the trash de- 
posited here. Each is hungry and there is a 10% cumula- 
tive chance each minute the characters spend here that 
one investigates the characters and attacks. If so, the sec- 
ond one enters the battle 1d3 + 1 rounds later. If reduced 
to 5 hit points or fewer, a crawler retreats up the shaft to 
hide in a crevasse. 




There is a bit of random treasure to be found, for those 
who desire to pick through the mess. For each minute 
spent picking through the trash, there is a 15% chance of 
finding something valuable. Roll 2d6 below to see what 
is found. However, for every 5 minutes a character spends 
poking around, they need to succeed on a DC 11 Con- 
stitution saving throw or contract sewer plague (see Dun- 




geon Master's Guide, p. 257). 
2D6_ Item(s) Found 
2 Dark blue rhomboid ioun stone of awareness 




3 Bone flute set with obsidian (115 gp) 
4 Small cream-colored pearl (75 gp) 




5 2d12 gp 
6-8 — Assorted random coins (1d6 cp, sp, and gp) 
2 2d8 ep 




10 — Small piece of purple amethyst (50 gp) 
11 Gold tuck box (165 gp) 
1 Platinum ring set with a diamond (1,700 gp) 




AREA 16 —- CELL BLOCK 
DM Note: The door to this cell block is always locked 




from the inside. The torturer has the only set of keys, or 
the lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful 




DC 20 Dexterity check. 




The thick door finally opens to reveal a grim sight. Beyond is 
an L-shaped hallway, lined with barred doors. Blocking the 
route to the cells is a muscled goblinoid wearing studded leath- 
er armor and holding a whip in one hand and a longsword in 
the other. His face and arms are scarred and burned. 




oricinaL L ADVENTURES RE{NCARMATED e HE Lost city _ 




EERE EE SGA A ETS RTE 




The hobgoblins use slave labor in the smithy (see area 17) 
to assist with the crafting of their arms and armor. The 
slaves are kept in these cells when not toiling away in the 
heat of the forge. The single guard is a grizzled, balding 
hobgoblin named Turkou. Use the hobgoblin captain 




statistics with the following modifications: 
¢ His AC is 15 (+1 studded leather armor). 
* He has 55 hit points. 


* His Strength score is 18 (+4). 


¢ He has the Intimidation (+5) skill. 




¢ He has the following modified Multiattack trait and 
replacement weapon attack actions: 




Multiattack: Turkou makes two attacks: one with 
his longsword and one with his whip, or two with his 




longsword. 




Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (1d10 
+ 4) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




Whip: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing damage. 




Turkou is a cruel keeper of the slaves, preferring to use 
his whip or his bare fists to command respect. If chal- 
lenged by the characters, he gladly wades into com- 
bat, starting with his longsword and whip at the same 
time. If necessary, he drops the whip and uses just his 
longsword with both hands. He fights to the death with 




glee, taunting the characters in Goblin the whole way. 




oO 
REPLACING PLAYER CHARACTERS 




The cell block (area 16) is an ideal location to plant an 
NPC, or anew player characterto replace a fallen one. 
This even works if a new player would like to join the 
campaign. Simply replace one or more of the prison- 
ers with an NPC. If the current party is having trou- 
ble with the challenges of the Goblin Caves, the DM 
should consider placing a helpful NPC here. Using 
the pre-generated characters in appendix C would 
be a great place to start. It is recommended that the 
NPC be one or two levels lower than the party's aver- 
age character level. As for the new character's gear, 
perhaps its hidden in area 14 or has been discarded in 
area 15. To make it easier, Turkou could have the gear 
collected in a chest in this room. 




SHY PS ITE ET SSP 




SN 
en 
SS 




rf 
eo” = 
Wi 




There are six prisoners locked in the cells at this time. The 
rest are in area 17. Turkou carries a massive ring of cell 
door keys, or the locks can be picked with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 17 Dexterity check. 




There are four goblins and two Cynidicean commoners 
(see appendix C). All are weak, suffering level 3 exhaus- 
tion and possessing only 1 hit point due to mistreatment 
and grueling working conditions. Consult the “Replac- 
ing Player Characters” sidebar for ideas on alternate pris- 
oners that could be held in these cells. Expired slaves are 
fed to the apes in area 7 or the thouls in area 10. 




Development. Freeing the slaves (even the goblins) should 
warrant an experience bonus of 25 XP per slave. Double 
this amount if the characters escort the slaves to a place of 
relative safety. None of the slaves is in any mental or physi- 
cal condition to aid the characters while adventuring. 




AREA 17 —- THE FORGE 
DM Note: A hellish glow and the sound of iron striking 




iron can be heard long before this chamber is entered. 




The corridor ends at a brightly lit circular chamber, probably 
70 feet across. The ceiling is perhaps 30 feet high and cov- 
ered with a thick layer of soot. ‘The light seems to emit from 
a shaft in the floor to the left. Several forlorn humanoids, 
such as goblins and Cynidiceans, toil under the watchful eye 
of a smoldering, crimson serpent-like humanoid. They carry 
buckets of water or finished bladed weapons, or transport 
ash to holding bins. The opposite wall is a series of hearths 
with anvils placed in front. Each hearth glows with red-hot 
embers. Along the right wall are several troughs of water. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOS 




» Wy 




This is the hobgoblin smithy, often busy 20 hours a day. 
The hobgoblins have an accord with a salamander to aid 
in the weapon crafting. The salamander “harvests” lava 
from a stream that passes below the bottom of the shaft 
(the source of the heat and light in the chamber) to stoke 
the hearths. Meanwhile the 10 slaves here are forced to 
assist. There are six goblins and four Cynidicean com- 
moners (see appendix C; but see the “Replacing Player 
Characters” sidebar for notes on replacing any of these 
with NPCs). Currently, they are producing an assort- 
ment of swords for the warlord. 




The salamander is quick to respond to intruders by grab- 
bing his nearby spear. He could also improvise by splash- 
ing lava (+2 to hit, range 10 ft., 24 [4d10 + 2] fire dam- 
age) or hot embers (+2 to hit, range 5 ft., 12 [3d6 + 2] fire 
damage, and the target is blinded until the end of its next 
turn). It could even try to shove a target into the shaft, if 
nearby. The shaft is 20 feet deep and ends in a stream of 
lava; a creature falling in suffers 99 (18d10) fire damage. 
The DM might want to allow a DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw to grab onto the edge of the pit to prevent certain 




death. The salamander fights to the death. 




The salamander is paid in rubies. This clutch is hidden 
under the coals of the rightmost hearth and can be found 
with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
Rummaging through the coals to find these precious 
stones causes 3 (1dG) fire damage each turn due to the 
heat and touching the stones with an unprotected hand 
before they cool causes 7 (2d6) fire damage. There are nine 
rubies (eight worth 1,000 gp and one worth 5,000 gp). 




ra 




Rie —s So 




ES SSA ER VSS HOO A ALISA 




— 
i=) 
o 
iy) 


aad 




ae LI, 
o~ ES ss eS \ = 




Y Ua QS y we uy P ; | Ss 
Ay y 4 7 dN fi A Rts 
BA leah oOCe REI 




SS W/W) 
A wi WA 




ig erie eh 
~S = - Fe//2 =A 
LE UIN <5 




In 




NERS AAT LT ATEN TT 




LOWER CAVES (LEVEL 4) 




The lower caves are a collection of natural chambers and 
passages inhabited by a host of fell humanoids. These in- 
clude barbaric thouls, a small clan of ogres, and a soli- 
tary hill giant. For the most part these humanoids are 
ignored by the goblins and hobgoblins, and the Cynid- 
iceans of the Lost City. The notable exception is the hill 
giant, the source of the brute strength that powers the 
water conveyor apparatus (see below). The thouls hunt 
the expanse of the Wasteland (chapter 6, area P) and oc- 
casionally creep to the fringes of the Lost City to prey on 
unsuspecting victims. The hobgoblins in the stronghold 
find the thouls to be too unpredictable and bloodthirsty 
for loyal allies—but the warlord keeps trying to assimilate 
some of them into his militaristic society. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Water Conveyor. A crude conveyor apparatus has been 
installed for the ease of transporting water from the un- 
derground lake to the upper levels of the caves. See map 
23 for a depiction of the water apparatus. It is construct- 
ed of chains on a pulley system, attached to a wheel at 
the mouth of Cave I. Turning this wheel enough to raise 
a trough one level requires a successful DC 15 Strength 
check. The conveyor is affixed to six swinging wooden 
troughs, each holding about 20 gallons of water when 
full. The troughs are also used by the goblins and hob- 
goblins to move between levels. Small metal bells are at- 
tached to each trough. If the unit is vigorously shaken 
from above, the hill giant that lairs near Cave I comes out 
and turns the wheel. Typically, a small bit of treasure or 
meat is placed in one of the empty troughs on the way 
back down to reward the giant. 




Construction. The lower caves are natural and un- 
touched by tools. Walls and ceilings are rough, and while 
the floors are mostly smooth, they are covered with scree 
and rocky debris, and often slope in random directions. 




Ambient Conditions. These chambers are well below the 
scorching desert sands and thus are cooler and pleasant. 
Characters require less water (1 gallon per day) than in 
the desert or while adventuring in the Upper Pyramid 
locations. The air is damp here as the characters approach 
the waters of the underground lake. Area 10, especially, 
is damp with a faint stench of rotting organic matter and 




fouled fish. 




Ceilings. Unless otherwise noted, passage ceilings are 10 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REiMCARMATED e ies Lost City 




SCENE 




to 15 feet high, while room ceilings are on average 12 to 




25 feet high. 
Doors. There are no doors in the lower caves. 




Illumination. Unless otherwise stated in the room text, 
the interior of the lower caves is unlit. 




Wandering Monsters. There are no wandering monsters 
on this level. 




KEY TO LEVEL 4 (MAP 29) 




AREA 1 —- GIANT’S CAVE 




This cave smells faintly like an animal pen with an inter- 
mingled stench of body odor. The cavern is about 40 feet 
at its widest point, and about 50 feet long. The 25-foot- 
high ceiling is covered with tiny stalactites, but the larger 
ones seem to have been knocked off. A pile of rocks is care- 
fully placed in a natural niche in the northeast corner of the 
chamber. At the opposite end of the room is a large pile of 




brown furs. 




This cave is the home of a solitary hill giant named “Re- 
dan the Giant” by the goblins. He is a barrel-chested 
18-foot-tall behemoth, with wild long red hair and fuzzy 
muttonchops, despite an otherwise clean-shaven face. 
He has a sloping forehead, a wide nose, and somewhat 
oversized eyes that almost bulge out of his face. A loner 
most of his life, the giant lives here serving the goblins 
and hobgoblins above to power the water conveyor in 
exchange for fresh meat and the occasional bauble. He 
has performed this task for years and has developed the 
Athletics skill (+8) as a result. Overall, he is lazy and com- 
fortable with his role, and often spends most of his time 
sleeping or eating. 




If the characters move the water conveyor (such as by rid- 
ing or climbing on it), Redan is alerted, and approaches 
the mouth of the cave with a rock in hand. Another pile 
of throwing rocks is located to the left of the cave mouth. 
Redan throws rocks first, but gleefully uses his greatclub 
in melee. If reduced to 10 hit points or fewer, he surren- 
ders, offering half of his treasure if the characters leave 
him alone. 




The pile of furs consists of one cave bear pelt—which 
is worth 400 gp following a good cleaning—mixed in 
among seven worthless deep rothé pelts. A flat rock cov- 
ers a cavity in the floor along the south wall. It can be 
located with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. Inside the cavity is the wealth Redan has accumu- 




- b A he 




gS somone TE EDT 




TEN = een aaa Rc” 




lated over the years: 3,332 cp, 1,112 sp, 668 gp, a copper 
crown (55 gp), a gold bracer (115 gp), three small silver 
trade bars (25 gp each), a dented metal +/ shield with an 
owlbear insignia, and a pouch holding 66 unusual chunks 




of minerals, rocks, and glass. They are mostly worthless 
but a careful examination of these rocks and a successful 
DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals one to 




be a fiery orange jacinth (5,000 gp). 
AREA 2 — DEADFALL TRAP 




The corridor winds its way, but as you turn the corner, it 
comes to an end. 




The nearby ogres have fashioned deadfall traps at the ends 
of two corridors. The purpose is not so much for defense, 
but as a means to occasionally add some additional meat 
to the firepit, as roaming predators are common. They also 
serve as a warning device. If triggered, one or two ogres 
make their way from area 3 or 4 to investigate in 2 rounds. 




A successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check is re- 




quired to locate a thin tripwire that crosses the corridor 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




about 5 feet from the rock wall. The tripwire, if noticed, 
can easily be avoided, or it can be disabled with thieves’ 
tools and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. If this at- 
tempt fails, or the tripwire is triggered, several large rocks 
carefully placed on the ceiling come raining down on all 
targets in the last 10 feet of the corridor. Each target in 
that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw; a 
failure results in the target taking 13 (3d8) bludgeoning 
damage, and a success results in half as much damage. 
These traps need to be manually reset, which takes about 
30 minutes. 




AREA 3 — OGRE LAIR 




The corridor ends at a roughly circular natural cavern per- 
haps 40 feet in diameter. There are three piles of mangy furs: 
two along the east wall and one along the north wall. 




Three ogres live in this cave. They have their greatclubs, 
but no javelins. Instead, if these brutes require a ranged 
weapon, they pick up any of the numerous rocks strewn 
about and toss them (+4 to hit, range 30/90 ft., 11 [2d6 
+ 4] bludgeoning damage). The ogres don’t take kindly 
to intruders and attack on sight. If possible, one hastens 
to area 4 to rouse back-up before returning to toss rocks 
into the melee. The ogres fight to the death to protect 
their lair. 




The furs are worthless deep rothé pelts. Each ogre has a 
leather sack full of valuables hidden under the pelts that 
form its bed: 




Bed #1: A moldy half-eaten round of hard cheese, a col- 
lection of ornate colored glass bottles (5 sp each), a rusted 
animal trap, and a platinum whistle (75 gp). 




Bed #2: An unopened bottle of fine elven wine (20 gp), a 
pouch of 15 ancient Cynidicean gold coins (10 gp each), 
a chunk of amber the size of a grapefruit (500 gp), and 
the skeleton of an osquip. 




Bed #3: A silver mirror with a scratched surface (85 gp), 
a potion of healing, a purple metal mace, a leather thong 
holding five gnomish skulls, and a drinking horn carved 
from a blue dragon’s horn and set with obsidian and silver 




inlays (875 gp). 
AREA 4 — LARGE OGRE LAIR 




Warm light flickers from this natural cavern. The source of 
the light is a firepit in the center of the chamber with an odd- 
ly shaped deep cooking pot suspended over it on a metal rack. 
The metal pole holding the immense blackened pot is bowing 




from the weight of the unseen contents. The oval chamber is 
about 50 feet wide and stretches for at least 70 feet. ‘The ceil- 


ing is naturally arched and bristling with small stalactites. 


The opposite wall is covered with a flowstone formation, now 
marred with deep scores and accumulated soot. A few piles of 
furs are scattered about the floor: 




This is another lair, belonging to three more ogres. Two of 
the ogres are normal, but one of them, the default leader 
of this small clan, has the following statistics alterations: 




¢ His AC is 16 (chain mail). 




¢ He has a Constitution score of 18 (+4) and 66 (7d10 + 
28) hit points. 




° He wields a greatsword (+6 to hit, 18 [4d6 + 4] slashing 
damage). 




These ogres also lack javelins but can use rocks (+4 to hit, 
range 30/90 ft, 11 [2d6 + 4] bludgeoning damage) as 
ranged weapons if needed. The ogres respond to any intru- 
sions in area 3 but fall back to this chamber to make a final 
stand. If acreature is near the firepit, an ogre could attempt 
to shove the creature into it; if successful, the creature falls 
prone, taking 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage and 2 (1d4) fire 
damage. The ogres fight to the death to defend their lair. 




The fur piles are mangy and worthless. The largest ogre 
wears a gold chain around his neck (1,250 gp). The large 
metal pot over the firepit is actually a soot-covered cop- 
per bell. It can hold 15 gallons of liquid, and if cleaned, 
is worth 300 gp—although it weighs nearly 50 pounds. 
Discarded among the beds are three flagons carved from 
mastodon ivory bearing fanciful designs (200 gp each). 




Along the north wall is a large boulder blocking passage 
to another small chamber. This can be discovered with a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, although 
the hefty size of the boulder requires a successful DC 18 
Strength check to move it aside. Beyond is a natural cav- 
ern about 25 feet deep and 20 feet wide. The ogres hide 




their treasure here: 




° Three bolts of fine silk. Each is 25 square yards in size, is 
worth 250 gp, and weighs about 20 pounds. 




¢ Four casks of mundane ale (25 gp each). 




° Five large burlap sacks: four hold 1,000 sp each, and 
one holds 800 gp. 




e An unlocked battered wooden chest full of a random 
assortment of coins: 557 cp, 345 sp, 112 ep, 251 gp, 
and 11 pp. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




° A mithral breastplate sized for a dwarf. 




¢ An ironwood longbow with an electrum bowstring 
(150 gp). 


* A stone coffer holding a silver bracelet (350 gp), a pale 
yellow topaz (500 gp), and a pouch of platinum filings 
(65 gp). The coffer has a false bottom the ogres have 
not discovered. It can be found and opened with a suc- 
cessful DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Hid- 
den inside the secret compartment are four potions of 
invulnerability. However, the liquid of each potion has 
evaporated. If reconstituted with pure water and a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check, these magi- 
cal elixirs can be used as normal. 




AREA 5 — GALLERY OF CORPSES 




On entering this round chamber, you are greeted by a grim 
sight. Hanging from hooks suspended from the ceiling are 
several corpses. Most appear to be goblinoid, but a few hu- 
mans are present as well. 




The thouls that live in the chambers beyond store their 
extra food here. There are 12 metal hooks attached to 
the ceiling via short lengths of chain. Currently eight 
corpses are drying on the hooks, including five goblins, 
a hobgoblin (still wearing his chain mail), and two hu- 
mans (one of which is a Cynidicean). A successful DC 12 
Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals each victim was 
slaughtered via deep slashing wounds (such as made by 
talons or long claws). 




AREA 6 —- THOUL LAIR 




This natural cavern is about 30 feet wide and extends about 
50 feet. The rough walls are covered with crude paintings 
in a variety of colors. Several mats of soiled furs and spongy 
fungus are scattered about. On the south wall, several crude 
longbows hang by their drawstrings, with a pile of rudimen- 
tary arrows piled nearby. Pushed against one wall is an open 




cask filled with a nasty liquid. 
This is the lair of four thouls (see appendix B). These 




humanoids only use the longbows for hunting, instead 
preferring to rip the flesh off intruders with their dirt- 
encrusted claws. They lack coordinated tactics, each at- 




tacking with bloodlust and fighting until destroyed. 




There are five piles of sleeping material. Each contains a 
random assortment of treasure: 3d20 coins (sp, ep, and 
gp) and 1d3 small gems (25 gp each). The longbows are 
shoddy; they only have a range of 100/400 ft. and break 




Fl a , 
XX onIGINAL SDN ERIRES REINCARMATED | e THE Lost city 




if a natural 1 is rolled to hit. Likewise, the arrows are poor 
quality, only causing 1d6 piercing damage. The open cask 
contains a weak brine holding a decomposing giant fire 
beetle. 




The cave paintings are elaborate and represent centuries 
of carefully scribed history. If a character examines them 
for 30 minutes and makes a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check, they can determine that the thouls 
have a spiritual connection with pale humanoids of short 
stature (the Cynidiceans). Older paintings depict the two 
races working together, although the thouls are usually 
portrayed as aggressive and warlike, and the humanoids 
more thoughtful and cultured. It could be deduced that 
Cynidicean arcanists likely created the thouls as a servitor 
race long ago. At some point, a rift developed between the 
two races, and the thouls became shunned and outcast. 
The thouls then seemed to degenerate into a skulking so- 
ciety of the forgotten and ignored. ‘The newer pictures de- 
pict scenes of hunting various creatures of the Underdark. 




AREA 7 — THOUL CAVERN 




The corridor ends in a cavern roughly 40 feet in diameter. 
Several stalactites adorn the ceiling, two of which have 
merged with stalagmites to create natural pillars. Draped 
around these pillars are two worn and ripped nets. Where 
smooth, the walls of this chamber also are covered with 
paintings. Several piles of moist furs and semi-rotting fungus 
are scattered about. 




Three thouls (see appendix B) reside in this dead-end 
cavern. These, too, eschew using weapons such as bows 
or the nets. They do use the columns as half cover and to 
maneuver into a better attack position if applicable. The 
thouls are cornered and fight to the death. 




Stashed behind one of the columns are three crude long- 
bows (similar to those in area G6), but no arrows are to be 
found here. The nets are in poor condition; when making 
a Strength check to free a restrained target, a size Medium 
or Large creature has advantage on the roll. The nets are 
used to trap small vermin, such as rats and large insects, 
eaten by the thouls when other more suitable prey is not 
available. 




At the base of the eastern column is a small hollow cov- 
ered with gray canvas. It is easy to locate with a successful 
DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check. Secluded in the hol- 
low are 222 gp, a silver ring (200 gp), a black pearl (500 
gp), and an ebonwood wand of magic detection (with the 
command word “Carana” inscribed in silver). 




meee 




Lo mR Re 




SE ST SS a 




AREA 8 - THOUL KING 




This long, cavernous chamber is about 40 feet wide and 
stretches for at least 60 feet. The ceiling is at least 30 feet high 
and bristling with stalactites of various sizes. Three natural 
terraces, each approximately 5 feet high, disrupt the other- 
wise smooth floor. At the far end of the chamber, perched 
on the highest terrace, is a ramshackle throne composed of 
ill-fitting humanoid bones. Sitting on the great chair is an 
orange-skinned humanoid with a piercing gaze. Three mas- 
sive green-furred mastiffs rest at his feet. 




This is the lair of the self-proclaimed thoul king, a thoul 
necromage, and his three pet trollhounds (see appendix 
B for both). The necromage assumes the characters are 
hostile and orders his trollhounds to attack. Meanwhile, 
the necromage hangs back, using the throne as half cover 
while employing his wand of paralysis and ranged spells 
such as eldritch blast, ray of sickness, and witch bolt (with 
a 2nd-level slot). The trollhounds utilize their Pounce 
trait, attempting to knock targets off the terraces if pos- 
sible. It is not uncommon for a trollhound to disengage 
and retreat to set up another Pounce. If melee occurs, 
the necromage casts blade ward, chill touch, and inflict 
wounds (with a 2nd-level slot) before resorting to his 
magic longsword. Note that the command word for the 
wand (“Zeefre”) is not inscribed anywhere and needs to 
be researched. Also note that it must be uttered in the 
Goblin tongue to activate the wand. The necromage and 




the trollhounds all fight to the death. 
The terraces are each 5 feet high, and although a climb 




check is not needed to scale them, moving up in elevation 
requires an extra 10 feet of movement. Moving down 
from one terrace to another does not cost additional 




RY A eT RTI EE TET 




SE ES i ES 




SSE SHEEN TATE A LR LE TURE 




Ae CHU EA ES SEN ES ES 




ATT, 




movement, but an uncontrolled fall (such as from a troll- 
hound’s push) causes 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage. The 
bone throne can be used as half cover, but it’s not very 
sturdy. It has AC 15, 12 hit points, resistance to piercing 
damage, and vulnerability to bludgeoning damage. If re- 
duced to 0 hit points, it collapses in a heap and no longer 
provides any cover. 




Behind the bone throne is an unlocked stone chest. In- 
side is the thouls’ communal treasure: 655 ep; 51 pp; a 
pouch of nine tiny rubies (500 gp each); a silver crown 
set with rubies, sapphires, and emeralds (4,200 gp); a yel- 
low diamond elemental gem; and a necklace of prayer beads 
with two beads of blessing, one bead of curing, and one 
bead of smiting. 




AREA 9 — SHAFT 




The corridor ends in a shaft perhaps 25 feetin diameter. The 
bottom of the shaft disappears into the darkness. 




The shaft descends about 80 feet. A discarded tangle of 
humanoid and animal bones clutters the bottom. If the 
characters poke around, they can find 2d12 coins (either 
sp or gp) on the floor for each minute of searching. A 




total of 88 sp and 41 gp can be found here. 




About 20 feet from the bottom of the shaft is a 5-foot- 
high passage that leads to the west. The corridor is damp 
and ripe with the stench of rotting organic matter; it 
slopes down and to the north and then east about 20 feet 
before reaching area 10. 




AREA 10 - TROLL LAIR 




This damp cavern is about 35 feet in diameter. The ceiling is 
covered with tiny stalactites that are currently dripping with 


moisture. The floor is slick with condensation and strewn 


with fish bones and rocky debris. A pile of moist rubbery 
fungal stalks the size of logs rests in the eastern corner of 
the chamber. Along the north wall is a pool of dark water. 


Resting against the wall to the left of the pool is a gleaming 
trident. 




This dank chamber is the lair of a solitary troll. This re- 
clusive giant has adapted to its environment, becoming 
a proficient swimmer (it has Athletics [+7] pertaining to 
swim checks) and—over years of training—learning to 
hold its breath for 1 more minute than a typical troll (i.e., 
7 minutes total). The troll uses the submerged passage in 




the pool to exit its cave and enter the underground lake, 
to hunt large fish with its magic trident. The troll is not 
immune to the elixir of fantasy (see chapter 3), so due 
to its extended exposure to the tainted water and fish, it 
often spends hours retreated in a dream-like state or gib- 
bering madly about its existence. 




The troll starts the encounter submerged in the pool, 
which grants it advantage on all Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks to hide. Shortly after the characters fully enter 
the chamber, it attempts to burst out of the water with 
surprise, targeting a creature that gets close to the wa- 
ter’s edge. The troll tries to grapple a target, moving it or 
simply shoving it into the pool. While wet, the troll is 
resistant to nonmagical fire damage. If fire is used against 
it, the troll jumps back into the water to extinguish any 
persistent flames. The troll does not use the trident to at- 
tack, instead relying on its claw/claw/bite attack routine. 
If reduced to 10 hit points or fewer, it flees by jumping 
into the pool and exiting through the submerged pas- 
sage. It remains in the hidden cavity (see below) for a few 
minutes, allowing a chance to regenerate, before moving 
into the lake. 




The fungal logs serve as a crude bed of sorts. A half-eaten 
3-foot-long fish carcass is concealed under the logs. The 
trident has an electrum-plated fork with barbed tines and 
a driftwood shaft. It’s a +2 trident and although it gleams 
from time to time, it does not shed appreciable light. 




The pool is about 10 feet deep. Near the bottom is a pas- 
sage, about 4 feet in diameter, that leads to the northeast. 
After about 70 feet the passage widens, and the ceiling ex- 
tends above the water line. This algae-lined area is about 
10 feet in diameter and holds some breathable air. Hid- 
den submerged here is a stone chest that blends in with 
the rocky corridor, requiring a successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to locate. The chest is unlocked and 
contains the troll’s treasure: 2,023 gp, 47 pp, seven fresh- 
water pearls of various shades of cream and white (100 
gp each), two electrum candlesticks (400 gp each), a gold 
ring (550 gp), and a dagger of venom. 




The passage continues for another 100 feet before depos- 
iting the swimmer into the underground lake (chapter 6, 
area A). The troll uses the air in the cavity to safely make 
the trek to and from his cave to the bountiful hunting 
grounds in the depths of the lake. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City >" 4 




CHAPTER EIGHT 
The Lower Catacombs 




he Lost City was built over ancient catacombs. 
2 The cavern that houses the city proper was the 


Upper Catacombs. Below the city were the Lower 
Catacombs, but these fell caverns were sealed off since 
they are stalked by terrible, monstrous foes. The Cynid- 
iceans shun these caverns, which recently have been used 
to bend the fallen civilization to its knees by a dark power 
allied with the Zargonites. Fleshing out the Lower Cata- 
combs is the perfect way to expand the current adventure 
and hidden in those depths are numerous exits to delve 
even deeper into the bowels of the Underdark. 




Map 11 depicts a side view of the Lost City and environs 
(see chapter 6), as well as the five primary caverns that 
form the Lower Catacombs. Each of these caverns is la- 
beled (A through E) on the side view map. In addition, 
Cavern F, a stalactite hideout on the ceiling of Cavern D, 
is presented. Each of these caverns provides a sandbox 
of adventuring opportunities. These are outlined below 
with just enough detail to get the Dungeon Master on 
the path to develop further adventures. 




The Lower Catacombs contain challenges suitable for a 
balanced party of characters of at least 6th level. If the 
party is lower-level, consider adding another NPC or 
two (see appendix C for example pre-generated charac- 
ters, and adjust their levels accordingly), or hedge them 
toward a more suitable adventuring locale (such as the 
Goblin Caves in chapter 7). Reducing the challenges pre- 
sented in this chapter is not recommended, as the Lower 
Catacombs are the deadliest sites below the Lost City. 
Characters who plumb these depths have the opportuni- 
ty to discover an evil master that feigns loyalty to Zargon, 
but in reality, holds the Cynidiceans under its sway. If the 
characters truly wish to free the Cynidicean population 
from the shackles of evil, they need to deal with the dark 
master that reigns in these under-caverns. 




Several of these caverns contain catacombs. These ancient 
honeycomb passages lead to burial chambers, alcoves, and 
niches. Although not clearly marked on the outside, the 
interior corridors tend to be covered with ancient inscrip- 




tions that indicate who was buried here—and perhaps a 
bit of history. Unquiet dead occasionally stalk these halls, 
but they generally stay within. 




Each cavern is presented below and has a correspond- 
ing map. Each cavern is a slightly different environment, 
and each introductory entry contains a brief summary of 
its general features. Following this section is a table and 
notes on wandering monsters (if any), followed by out- 
lines of select encounter areas. 




CAVERN A—THE GLOAM 




The largest cavern of the Lower Catacombs is called the 
Gloam by its inhabitants, since it is in a perpetual dusk- 
like state due to the luminescent fungus adorning the 
walls and ceiling. The elevator located in the Lost City 
(chapter 6, area R) leads to this cavern, depositing its rid- 
ers in the middle of a hobgoblin camp. These troops are 
on assignment from the Temple of Zargon (chapter 6, 
area K) to secure this cavern and moderate movement 
between the Lost City and the Gloam. Regular patrols of 
hobgoblins are common here. 




The hobgoblin camp (area 1) guards the entrance corri- 
dor to Cavern D, an important location for the dark mas- 
ter that reigns down here. In addition, a great sinkhole 
(area 3) leads to Cavern B. An established fungus forest 
(area 4) occupies much of the cavern floor, and a vale- 
like side passage (area 6) conceals numerous catacombs 
once designated for kings and queens. A steep embank- 
ment isolates the northeast part of this cavern, a natural 
plateau inhabited by a reclusive race of humanoids (area 
9), more catacombs (area 10), and a hidden route to the 
Underdark (area 8). Hidden in the embankment (at area 
7) is a guarded route that leads to Cavern C, the Mines 
of Misery. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Gloam is a natural cavern and has 
been used for centuries by the denizens of the Underd- 
ark, and occasionally the Cynidiceans. There are carved 
catacombs in two locations: along the north wall on the 
plateau and in a vale-like fissure along the southeast wall. 




Ceiling. West of the river, the ceiling height ranges from 
100 to 150 feet high with some stalactites present. The 
middle part of the cavern has the lowest ceiling height, 
averaging 40 feet. The ceiling here is relatively smooth 
and roughly worked in places. To the east, it opens to 
about 150 feet, with many large stalactites occurring 
here. The plateau rises about 75 feet over the cavern floor, 
so the ceiling here is on average 75 feet high. Scores of 
giant bats live on the ceiling of the Gloam among the 
rocky formations. 




Doors. There are no doors in the Gloam. 




Illumination. This cavern gets its name from its per- 
petual twilight-like illumination. This effect is created by 
luminescent fungi that grow on the walls, ceiling, and 
even the floor in places. The resulting eerie purple haze 
is equivalent to dim light conditions (see p. 183 of the 
Players Handbook). Oddly, the fungi occur much less fre- 
quently in the section of the eastern cavern on the pla- 
teau. This is partially a natural occurrence as it is drier 
here, but also it is physically inhibited by the inhabitants 
(see area 9), who prefer darkness. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 30 minutes of exploration. A wandering 
monster check could also be called for if the characters 
employ flashy magic (such as fireball or lightning bolt) or 




make an unusual amount of noise. A typical skirmish or 




WANDERING MONSTERS: THE GLOAM 




combat would likely not attract a wandering monster. 
Roll 2d6 for the type of monster encountered or choose 
one from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health 




CYNIDICEANS 




A group of 2d4 Cynidicean commoners (see appendix 
C) encountered in the Lower Catacombs are likely to be 
escaped slaves hiding from the hobgoblins or darklings. 
They are initially hostile but after some quick thinking 
on the characters’ side (and perhaps a successful DC 15 
Charisma [Persuasion] check or two) these unfortunates 
can be swayed to friendly. They might have information 
on the fungal farming (see Cavern D) or the mining op- 
erations (see Cavern C) occurring down here to undercut 
the Cynidicean way of life in the Lost City. Alternatively, 
the DM may choose any of the dozen Cynidicean en- 
counters usable for all challenge levels located in appen- 
dix C. The DM may randomly determine one of these 
encounters or use them as a guide to design her own. 




DEEP GNOMES 




This quartet of deep gnomes is part of a larger group 
and uses Stealth to view the characters from afar. Their 
band traveled to the Lower Catacombs and established 
a small base of operations (see area 5). The svirfneblin 
are investigating the disappearance of several scouting 
parties and have tracked their fellows here. No allies of 
the Cynidiceans, these gnomes start any encounter with 
the characters as indifferent. If the characters can speak 
Gnomish, Terran, or Undercommon, they could parley. 
If the characters can sway them to friendly, the PCs are 
invited back to their camp to meet their leader. 




2D6 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


2 Cynidiceans Varies Varies Appendix C See description 
3 Deep gnomes 4 100 MM, p. 164 


4-5 Giant bats toe Ei y Of) MM, p. 323 


6-8 Hobgoblin patrol Varies Varies MM, p. 186 See description 
9 Goblins Dae. 021 0) MM, p. 166 


10 Thouls 4 200 Appendix B 


11 Immature xorn a 450 Appendix B 


12 Giant slug 1 2,900 Appendix B 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT BATS 




Many giant bats roost on the ceiling of the Gloam. From 
time to time a few of these use their echolocation to home 
in on likely prey, and then perform a few flyby attacks. If 
they encounter strong opposition, after a few rounds they 
flap away to seek easier prey. 




GIANT SLUG 
A giant slug (see appendix B) slowly creeps along the 




floor (and sometimes walls) of this cavern. Not particu- 
larly aggressive and generally slow in its movements, this 
enormous beast can be avoided. It will fight back if con- 
fronted, starting with its acidic spray. If defeated, and its 
gullet is located with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Sur- 
vival) check and cut open, a large ruby (5,000 gp) can be 
recovered. 




GOBLINS 




These wandering goblins live in caves across the under- 
ground lake from the Cynidiceans (see area O, chapter 
G6). They are supposed to be hunting but are easily dis- 
tracted and spend much of their time pulling pranks and 
trying to find treasure. 




HOBGOBLIN PATROL 




This is a disciplined patrol of six hobgoblins performing 
a specific task. They might be escorting prisoners (2d4 
Cynidicean commoners; see appendix C) or deliver- 
ing food to a hobgoblin camp in this or a nearby cavern. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. 
IMMATURE XORN 




Three immature xorn (see appendix B) roam about the 
Lower Catacombs looking for precious metals and gems 
to consume. These energetic youths act like rowdy teen- 
agers, bullying organic life-forms into giving metals or 
precious gems in return for not “roughing them up.” If 
one of the characters speaks Terran (or Goblin, as they 
understand a smattering of that tongue), a successful 
DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion) check can sway them to 
friendly. If that is the case, the xorn are willing to trade 
information for metal or gems. They are fully aware of 
the mines (Cavern C), as they are frequently driven away 
by the guards there, and the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F). 
If swayed to friendly, the xorn have a habit of popping 
up (literally, out of the stone floor) at the worst possible 
time to make an encounter more dynamic (or difficult). 




The DM should play these bizarre creatures more for 
comedy than a physical threat, although they do attack 
if prompted. 




THOULS 




This is a wandering pack of four thouls (see appendix B) 
hunting throughout the caverns. There is a 60% chance 
they are lugging a carcass back with them from a success- 
ful hunt. The carcass could be a humanoid body (a quag- 
goth, or perhaps several Cynidiceans) or a beast such as a 
giant lizard. They attack on sight, starting an encounter 
using their crude weapons but quickly shifting to claw 
attacks in close combat. Each is armed with a shoddy 
set of hunting gear consisting of a longbow, a quiver of 
20 arrows, and a net. If a thoul rolls a natural 1 on a 
bow attack (+3 to hit, range 100/400 ft. 4 [1d6 + 1] 
piercing damage) the weapon breaks. A thoul’s successful 
net attack (+5 to hit, range of 5/15 ft.) still results in a 
Large or smaller creature being restrained, but a Large or 
Medium creature has advantage on the DC 10 Strength 
check required to free a restrained creature. (See p. 148 
of the Players Handbook for more on nets.) They fight to 
the death. 




KEY TO THE GLOAM (MAP 30) 




AREA 1 - HOBGOBLIN CAMP 




The elevator from the Lost City above (chapter 6, area R) 
deposits riders on this plateau. The plateau is a natural 
defensive location, augmented by a 10-foot-high fungus 
log stockade fence as depicted on the map. A crude gate 
leads to a set of steps carved into the steep embankment 
to provide easy access to the cavern floor. Hobgoblins 
from the stronghold (chapter 7) are stationed here on 
6-month rotations. Their orders are to secure this cavern 
and the entrance to the Shroom Farms (Cavern D). 




a. Elevator. This is the destination of the elevator from 
above. Four hobgoblins armed with heavy crossbows (+3 
to hit, range 100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] piercing dam- 
age) and longswords are stationed here at all times. At 
the first sign of trouble, they alert the other hobgoblins 
in the camp, which muster in 3 rounds to respond to any 
conflict. 




b. Small Tent. These two tents are identical; they are 
composed of thick gray canvas and measure about 10 feet 
by 10 feet. Between them is an outdoor firepit and com- 




munal mess area. 




ER SERS Sf eh a Ra AR 




ELLE REESE LESSEE EOD ELLE ANT 




SEE TTL TE TE 




yNoW aed w® 




| 


ae 
Bol | | 
US 




= 4 
pm® | <> 




pal 
ee oe 




aS 




a 




oe " 




\P 




VN AUG A 
Ky, oe 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




The tent closest to area d is reserved for an ogre (see area 
d) tasked with moving the rock that seals the route to 
Cavern D. Inside is a pile of furs and a chest holding 550 
gp and a gold orb set with diamonds (1,800 gp). 




The other tent is reserved for two hobgoblin captains 
tasked with overseeing the operation of the camp, set- 
ting up duty details, etc. Each has a bed and an unlocked 
chest containing some personal wealth: 




Chest #1: A potion of healing, a pouch with 25 pp, and an 
electrum pin in the shape of a dragon (65 gp). 




Chest #2: A +J/ dagger, a pouch with 23 gp, and a book 
written in Dwarvish on how to be an effective leader (40 
gp). Ihe book’s margins are scribbled with notes that ap- 
ply only to goblinoids. 




c. Barracks. Each of these three tents is composed of 
thick gray canvas and measures about 10 feet wide by 20 
feet long. Each has enough bunk beds to accommodate 
20 troops, although only 10 hobgoblins are present at 
any time. The rest are on patrol or in other locations in 
the Lower Catacombs. The barracks are cramped, with 
barely enough room for extra gear (weapons and armor). 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




All personal effects are carried by the hobgoblins in back- 
packs. Each hobgoblin carries 3d6 gp (weekly pay). 




d. Sealed Passage. A large flat rock is positioned in front 
of this corridor. It can be moved with a successful DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check. An ogre is resting against this 
rock. It is his responsibility to move the rock as needed 
for the troops to access the passage. His greatclub is near- 
by, and he would relish at the chance to break up the mo- 
notony of his existence by bashing a few puny humans. 




AREA 2 — FUNGAL BRIDGE 




A sluggish river roughly bisects the cavern floor. The river 
is about 20 feet deep and averages about 20 feet wide. A 
30-foot-long bridge, crafted from massive hewn fungus 
logs lashed together with way too much rope, provides 
access to the opposite bank. Although the bridge sways 
quite a bit and appears not entirely stable, it is suitable 
and can support 500 pounds of weight. Combat on the 
bridge is tricky due to its movements. A combatant must 
succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw at the start 
of its turn or fall prone. 




The bridge was crafted by the troops and they maintain a 




presence here guarding it. Four bored hobgoblins stand 
guard here, two on either side. They refuse to let the char- 
acters pass, unless they succeed on a DC 20 Charisma 
(Deception or Persuasion) check. Adding a bribe of at 
least 100 gp grants advantage to either type of check. 
Likewise, a DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation) check can 
be used to force passage over the bridge. If the charac- 
ters fail one of these checks, they are apparently granted 
passage, but during their crossing the hobgoblins quickly 
sever a few key ropes that tilt the bridge toward the water. 
A character on the tipped bridge needs to succeed on a 
DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the river. 




A giant gar (see appendix B) lives in the river and re- 
sponds to any significant disturbance of the water’s surface 
by a Small or larger creature. It uses Stealth to attempt to 
attack with surprise. If the giant gar swallows a Medium 
creature or two Small creatures it disappears upstream to 
digest its meal. Otherwise, it fights until reduced to 15 hit 
points or fewer, at which point it dives to the bottom and 
flees upstream or downstream, as appropriate. 




Developments. If the giant gar is not defeated and the 
characters enter the river, there is a 10% cumulative 
chance they attract the gar’s attention. It again takes its 
time, using Stealth to attempt an ambush with surprise. 
Swimming across the river requires a successful DC 15 




Strength (Athletics) check. 




AREA 3 — THE WAY DOWN 




This gaping sinkhole is roughly 30 feet in diameter. The 
natural shaft travels about 60 feet straight down, arriving 
at Cavern B, the Sink. The walls are worn and somewhat 
difficult to climb, requiring a successful DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 




AREA 4 ~— CAVERN FLOOR AND FUNGUS 
FOREST 




The cavern floor is wide open save for occasional rocky 
debris. Packs of 1d6 + 2 giant lizards roam this area. There 
are two varieties: one drab gray, muscular giant rock liz- 
ard and then another, lighter build with sticky pads on 
its feet. Use the giant lizard statistics presented in the 
Monster Manual for both, with a few alterations: 




¢ The giant rock lizard has 25 (3d10 + 9) hit points. 
° Its Strength is 17 (+3) and its Constitution is 16 (+3). 




¢ It has an improved bite attack: 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. 




° The sticky pad giant lizard’s AC is 14. 
* Its Strength is 13 (+1) and its Dexterity is 17 (+3). 
¢ It has one new trait and a modified bite attack: 




Spider Climb: The lizard can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage. 




Giant rock lizards are aggressive but are occasionally muz- 
zled and used as pack animals. Sticky pad giant lizards are 
skittish at best and seek to flee whenever possible. They 
often seek to climb a nearby wall to get out of reach from 
predators. 




As indicated on the map, a stand of massive 10-foot-high 
toadstools and other bizarre fungus occupies a portion 
of the cavern floor. The forest is considered difficult ter- 
rain, and the larger fungus trunks can be used for half 
cover. Both types of lizards prefer to graze here, so there 
is an increased chance of encountering one or more packs 
here. Amid the fungal overgrowth is a circle of five black 
standing stones, a structure from a bygone age. Characters 
that stand in the middle get an odd tingling sensation, 
but nothing else. The origin and purpose of the standing 
stones is left to the DM to decide. Options include it be- 
ing the focus of a powerful scrying device, it being an inac- 
tive teleportation portal, concealing a massive treasure, or 
augmenting a spellcaster’s ability if consecrated somehow. 




Three gas spores also float about the tangle of fungal 
growth, These investigate any disturbances, such as char- 
acters hacking through the growth, looking for specific 
types of fungus, or spending significant time investigat- 
ing the standing stones. 




AREA 5 - DEEP GNOME HIDEOUT 




DM Note: It is unlikely the characters can locate this 
hideout without being led here by some of the deep 
gnomes. There is a concealed twisting trail that winds its 
way up to a hidden cave entrance. It requires a successful 
DC 25 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate and only if 




actively searching the base of the wall for such a route. 




A band of 13 deep gnomes, led by a deep gnome ranger 
named Keogh (see appendix C), have set up a temporary 
camp in a cave about 40 feet above the cavern floor. This 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SSSss 




= Ss. 5 




_———— __ 
SS 5 




MA 
Si ¥i\ 




elusive band hails from a deep gnome settlement about 10 
miles to the south of the Lower Catacombs. Recently, sev- 
eral deep gnome hunting bands have gone missing, and 
Keogh has deduced the Lower Catacombs as the likely 
destination of his missing comrades. He is correct, as nu- 
merus deep gnomes have been recently captured by the 
darklings and now toil away in the Mines of Misery (Cav- 
ern C). As these fellows have arrived only recently, they 
haven't yet discovered the route to the mines (area 7). 




Their cave is about 30 feet in diameter. The floor is littered 
with simple bedrolls and survival gear, such as ropes, ra- 
tions, and waterskins. The band can be packed and ready 
to depart in minutes. The characters can safely take a long 
rest here without fear of wandering monsters. 




Keogh has a journal filled with notes and sketched maps. 
If the band becomes friendly, they are willing to share 
any information with the characters. The deep gnomes 
have fully explored this cavern, so they are aware of the 
darklings occupying the ancient tower (area 9) and most 
of the details of Cavern B. They are yet to find the route 
to Cavern C, or sneak past the hobgoblin camp at area 1 
to explore Cavern D. 




STON 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




* 4 




Developments. The deep gnomes likely spy the characters 
long before the characters discover them (see the wander- 
ing monster table entry). The svirfneblin watch the char- 
acters for several hours (the DM can opt to grant them 
a few Perception vs. Stealth contests to discover Keogh’s 
spies) before deciding to make contact. The deep gnomes 
begin the encounter indifferent, but very suspicious, unless 
they observed the characters in open conflict with the hob- 
goblins. If swayed to friendly, the characters have, at mini- 
mum, a secretive band of allies and a safe resting location. 
Or, they might gain highly trained troops to openly con- 
front the hobgoblins or darklings, should the characters 
wish to escalate the attack on the oppressors on this level. 




AREA 6 — VALE OF THE ANCIENT KINGS 




Behind the tangle of the fungal forest along the south- 
east wall is a natural fissure that created the steep walls 
of a vale-like crevasse. An ancient civilization that pre- 
dated the Cynidiceans tread here and consecrated it as a 
holy location. They carved catacombs into the walls and 
laid to rest many kings and queens. Today, many of these 
poorly constructed passages have caved in, and the ones 
left are unstable and dangerous. 




If explored, there is a 20% chance per 10 minutes of ex- 
ploration for a minor cave-in to occur. A character caught 
in a cave-in must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and become 
trapped. It takes 4d4 man-hours of hard labor to clear 
a passage wide enough for trapped characters to escape. 
For every 30 minutes explored, there is a 10% chance 
the characters locate a valuable item, typically a jeweled 
art object or some type of jewelry set with precious gem- 




stones (3d4 x 100 gp). 




At the far end of the fissure is a bizarre 15-foot-long slug- 
like aberration. This strange creature is Ggneiss, a delver 
(see appendix B) that for some time has inhabited the cav- 
erns of the Lower Catacombs. Unfortunately, Ggneiss re- 
cently consumed some impure metallic ore, and now he is 
hopped up, incoherent, and has lost all directional sense. 
He believes he is trapped in the fissure, although he could 
clearly turn around and exit, or even dissolve the rock floor 
and make his own route. If the characters can speak Terran 
or Undercommon they could converse with him, although 
it might be better to wait until he becomes more lucid 
(which takes a few hours). Until then, he constantly bangs 
against the sheer rock wall, trying to escape. He expresses a 
need for urgency, as if someone—a group of dark, shadowy 
sprites—is coming for him. These are the darklings that re- 
cently drove him away from their ruby mine in Cavern C. 




Developments. If the characters strike an unlikely friend- 
ship with Ggneiss (once he sobers up) and offer him some 
pure metal (he prefers electrum; at least 600 pieces) or 
sapphires (at least 2,000 gp worth), he offers to show them 
the route to the mines—as long as the characters promise 
to keep the “shadow sprites” away from him. He promises 
all the rubies they could ever want to eat! Ggneiss also 
knows the approximate location of a route to the Under- 
dark (area 8) since he is the one who tunneled it months 
ago. The darklings have since concealed that route, but 
Ggneiss remembers enough to eventually find it. 




AREA 7 - EMBANKMENT AND HIDDEN 
ENTRANCE 
This embankment is about 75 feet high. Short of magical 




means, it provides the only access to the plateau above— 
but there are no easy routes to scale this feature. Climb- 
ing the embankment is laborious, but not too difficult. It 
only takes a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check 
to scale, and using ropes and grappling hooks grants ad- 
vantage on all checks. The embankment is home to nu- 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




merous gricks. There is a 60% chance that 1d3 gricks 
attack characters while they climb, unless a successful DC 
15 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check is 
made first. Essentially, a successful check indicates the 
characters have found a location with too few nooks 
and crannies for predators to lurk. A favorite tactic of 
the gricks is to sever climbing ropes with their slashing 
tentacles. Then they casually move to the cavern floor to 
consume their pre-tenderized meal at leisure. 




There is a concealed passage leading down to the Mines 
of Misery (Cavern C) as depicted on the map. This gen- 
eral area is avoided by the gricks, as it is actively patrolled 
by four darklings (see appendix B). These darklings 
are responsible for preventing the entrance from being 
discovered at all costs. However, there is a great deal of 
movement to and from the tower above (area 9) and the 
hobgoblin camp (area 1) through this route. Thus, per- 
sistent observation or outright tracking, requiring a suc- 
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check, could lead the 
characters to this entrance. If a normal search of the area 
is performed, looking for tracks, it requires a successful 
DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check to locate the entrance. 
The passage winds its way downward for about 85 feet 
before ending at area 1 in Cavern C. 




Developments. Eventually, Keogh and his band of deep 
gnome spies will observe this entrance being used. After 
a quick reconnaissance, this discovery might prompt the 
deep gnomes to seek an alliance with the characters to 
explore the Mines of Misery. 




Ee 
DARKLING SNIPERS 




The darklings beneath the Lost City have become pro- 
ficient with the hand crossbow. Perhaps they were 
trained by the drow, or they acquired the weapons dur- 
ing a brazen raid in the Underdark—the exact details 
are left to the DM to flesh out, if necessary. 




All normal darklings (see appendix B) encountered in 
the Lower Catacombs have an additional attack action: 




Hand Crossbow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 
If the darkling has advantage on the attack roll, the at- 
tack deals an additional 7 (2d6) piercing damage. 




GSS ees 




SUN ER 




Zo Sp ne Un CO ORE NET IMENURESD 




AREA 8 - ROUTE TO THE UNDERDARK 




Hidden on the southeast wall of the plateau is a route to 
the Underdark. This passage was created by the delver 
Ggneiss (see area G), and he offers the best chance to lo- 
cate it. If the characters are merely searching at random, it 
requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check 
to locate after an hour of searching. 




The passage is about 10 feet wide and 10 feet high. It winds 
its way for several hundred feet before linking with a dry 
river bed that heads east/west. By traveling east, the upper 
reaches of the Underdark can be located. This is would the 




perfect place for the DM to expand the adventure. 




AREA 9 - FORGOTTEN TOWER 




Alone on the plateau is a strange black metal tower, an 
edifice from a bygone era. Currently, the structure is con- 
trolled by a band of darklings loyal to the mind flayer and 
their dark master (see Cavern F). The darklings live in 
the tower and are responsible for overseeing the mining 
operations below (see Cavern C). 




The door is the only entrance from the surface. It is 
locked and lacks a keyhole. A series of concealed pan- 
els needs to be pressed in the proper order for the door 
to open. The panels can be discovered with a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. Pressing them in the 
correct pattern requires a successful DC 22 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. Each time this check is failed, the 
next check’s DC decreases by 2, as trial and error aids in 
solving this puzzle. 




The structure is 30 feet to a side and 20 feet high, with 
additional 5-foot-high crenelated walls on top. Stationed 
on the flat top are two darklings (see appendix B) with 
loaded hand crossbows. Both open fire using the walls as 
half cover. In the next round, one flees into the tower to 
alert the inhabitants. 




The interior of the tower is magically larger than the out- 
side. The first floor is a grand trophy room that is 60 feet 
on a side with a 20-foot-high ceiling. Many metal stat- 
ues depicting bizarre humanoid creatures (left to the DM 
to describe) line the walls. The walls are adorned with 
dusty tapestries, and the floor is covered with a deep red 
plush carpet. Six darklings (see appendix B) hide in this 
chamber, using the tapestries and shadows to remain con- 
cealed. They attack with hand crossbows, but then prefer 
to hide again on their next turn. A metal spiral staircase 
provides access to the second floor. 




A secret trapdoor in the floor is covered by the carpet. 
It is so cunningly disguised that even the darklings are 
unaware of it. It requires a successful DC 22 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to locate. The door is sealed with an 
arcane lock and leads to a forgotten cellar (see below). 




The second floor is 90 feet on a side with a 15-foot-high 
ceiling and appears to be a library. It is full of metal racks 
holding ancient books, texts, and manuals. This is the lair 
of a darkling elder and six of his loyal darkling guards 
(see appendix B for both). There are hundreds of books 
here, and the whole collection would easily fetch 5,000 
gp. A successful DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check after 
1 hour of searching reveals a magical book: a manual of 
stone golems. A metal staircase provides access to the third 
floor. 




The third floor is 120 feet on a side with a 10-foot-high 
ceiling. This room originally was a barracks, and now is 
used for a similar purpose. There are 40 bedrolls but only 
eight darklings (see appendix B) are here at any time. 
There is a secret trapdoor in the ceiling that requires a 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. 
It leads to the rooftop. 




The cellar is a shadowy, 30-foot-diameter crypt-like 
chamber. The chamber is the haunt for three wraiths, 




USS OS aN PR ig TS RRO ER te TT IA TTT 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SL I ASE FOLIOS aa IN CAIRO a - eT So MEET ASTER 




the former apprentices of the evil arcanist that created 
this magical tower. At the DM’s option, there could be a 
hidden entrance to dungeon level(s) below the tower. If 
so, the undead arcanist might still be present there in one 
of the following forms: 




° CR 4: A malevolent ghost. It can only gain eternal rest 
by undoing a terrible deed. 




*CR 10: A weakened mummy lord (no Spellcasting 
trait). It can only regain its missing arcane spellcasting 
powers by slaughtering foes and cursing them to the 
eternal damnation of undeath. If restored, adjust its CR 
to 15. 




* CR 13: A vampire. It craves to be freed to begin assem- 
bling an army of spawn to do its bidding. 




AREA 10 - SHUNNED CATACOMBS 




Along the north wall of the plateau are three passages 
leading to a series of ancient crypts. The walls near the 
entrances are covered with goblinoid markings and 
glyphs warning of danger, death, and worse. The interiors 
are devoid of light, dusty, and partially collapsed in loca- 
tions. The walls bear fanciful frescos and bas-relief carv- 
ings. They depict Cynidicean writings and pictograms, 
mostly dealing with mundane activities in a fertile cradle 
surrounding a surface city. The population appears robust 
and content, often pursuing fine arts and recreational ac- 
tivities such as sports. 




However, these catacombs are shunned as undead stalk 
the halls. There are 13 wights, 21 shadows, and one 
wraith throughout these forsaken corridors. If the char- 
acters explore here they encounter small groups of un- 
dead, but the opposition gradually increases until they 
have a showdown with the wraith and his personal cadre 
of three wights. There is no treasure here, as those buried 
in these chambers were mere commoners. 




WANDERING MONSTERS: THE SINK 




2D6 Encounter # App XP 


oe Giant slug 1 2,900 
3 Deep gnomes 4 100 
4-7 Giant cave locusts 2d6+4 50 
8-9 Quaggoths 1d3+1 450 
10 Giant spiders ? 200 
11 Caecilia worm 1 700 
12 Immature xorn 3 450 




Sem a a TF TE A PE TTR TH STALIN TPE EO TET 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE Lost city 




aio enepsity SSR EB AT FE SETI ATE r eee eer A > f 




FELT ESS 




CAVERN B — THE SITIK 




This small cavern lies below the Gloam and can be ac- 
cessed via a large sinkhole shaft (Cavern A, area 3). This 
natural cavern is host to a large pack of giant cave locusts 
that roam the open areas. A tribe of quaggoths prey on 
the vermin, effectively keeping their population in check. 
The quaggoths reside in a set of ancient catacombs along 
the south wall. The quaggoths occasionally sneak up into 
the upper caverns to hunt, preferring to pluck slumber- 
ing giant bats off their roosts. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Sink is a natural cavern that became 
linked to Cavern A during an earth tremor hundreds of 
years ago. Shortly after the sinkhole appeared, the Cynid- 
iceans were quick to explore its limited depths, and add- 
ed some catacombs along the south wall and in a natural 
alcove in the southeast corner of the cavern. 




Ceiling. The ceiling height of the Sink ranges from 20 
to 40 feet high with some stalactites present. The lowest 
part of the ceiling is on the northern side, with a gradual 
increase in height as one moves to the south. 




Doors. There are no doors in the Sink. 




Illumination. The dusk-like illumination, created by lu- 
minescent fungi that grow on the walls and ceiling, that 
exists above in the Gloam occurs here, too. The resulting 
eerie purple haze is equivalent to dim light conditions 
(see p. 183 of the Players Handbook). This fungus covers 
most surfaces as the caves of the Sink tend to be some- 
what moist and humid. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 10 minutes of exploration. A wandering 
monster check could also be called for if the characters 




Source Notes 
Appendix B 
MM, p. 164 
Appendix B 
MM, p. 256 
MM, p. 328 
Appendix B 
Appendix B 




TERT SRE TT LEN ES EN SP TERA f SPST oe, * VA 




P aes 




X 203)¢ 
IN / 




employ flashy magic (such as fireball or lightning bolt) or 
make an unusual amount of noise. A typical skirmish or 
combat would likely not attract a wandering monster. 
Roll 2d6 for the type of monster encountered or choose 
one from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health. 




CAECILIA WORM 




An immense caecilia worm (see appendix B) senses the 
characters treading on the rocky terrain and moves to in- 
vestigate. Unless the characters make a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check, the worm bursts through 
the rocky floor in their midst and attacks with surprise. 
If it swallows a creature, or is reduced to 15 hit points or 
fewer, it retreats into its hole and flees. 




DEEP GNOMES 




This quartet of deep gnomes is part of a larger group. 
Their band traveled to the Lower Catacombs and estab- 
lished a small base of operations (see Cavern A, area 5). 
The svirfneblin are investigating the disappearance of sev- 
eral scouting parties and have tracked their fellows here. 
No allies of the Cynidiceans, these gnomes start any en- 
counter with the characters as indifferent. If the charac- 
ters can speak Gnomish, Terran, or Undercommon, they 
could parley. If the characters can sway them to friendly, 
the PCs are invited back to their camp to meet their leader. 




GIANT CAVE LOCUSTS 




Giant cave locusts (see appendix B) are 3-foot-long, 
gray-white grasshopper-like insects that dwell under- 
ground. They detect the characters long before they are 
themselves detected, and remain motionless, utilizing 
their False Appearance trait. If disturbed, a giant cave lo- 
cust panics and leaps up to 60 feet in a random direction 
with a 50% chance to jump toward one of the PCs. If 
within 10 feet of a character following a leap, a giant cave 
locust spits its poison goo. When frightened after being 
disturbed, it emits a loud shriek that has a 20% chance of 
attracting another wandering monster (reroll on the table 
and ignore any result indicating more giant cave locusts). 




GIANT SLUG 
A giant slug (see appendix B) slowly creeps along the 




floor (and sometimes walls) of this cavern. Not particu- 
larly aggressive and generally slow in its movements, this 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




enormous beast can be avoided. It will fight back if con- 
fronted, starting with its acidic spray. If defeated, and its 
gullet is located with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Sur- 
vival) check and cut open, a large ruby (5,000 gp) can be 
recovered. 




GIANT SPIDERS 




The characters are ambushed by a trio of giant spiders. 
This encounter works best with a low ceiling (20 feet or 
less) with the giant spiders using Stealth to avoid detec- 
tion. If unnoticed, they silently drop into the midst of 
the characters, suspended on webs and attacking with 
surprise. If two are defeated, the remaining spider flees. 




IMMATURE XORN 




Three immature xorn (see appendix B) roam about the 
Lower Catacombs looking for precious metals and gems 
to consume. These energetic youths act like rowdy teen- 
agers, bullying organic life-forms into giving metals or 
precious gems in return for not “roughing them up.” If 
one of the characters speaks Terran (or Goblin, as they 
understand a smattering of that tongue), a successful 
DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion) check can sway them to 
friendly. If that is the case, the xorn are willing to trade 
information for metal or gems. They are fully aware of 
the mines (Cavern C), as they are frequently driven away 
by the guards there, and the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F). 
If swayed to friendly, the xorn have a habit of popping 
up (literally, out of the stone floor) at the worst possible 
time to make an encounter more dynamic (or difficult). 
The DM should play these bizarre creatures more for 
comedy than a physical threat, although they do attack 
if prompted. 




QUAGGOTHS 




A bestial band of quaggoths resides in one of the cata- 
combs secluded in the depths of the cavern (see area 4). 
This small hunting band is roaming its way to or from 
area 2 of this cavern, or even from Cavern A, above. They 
attack on sight, eager to add fresh flesh to their diet, as 
although the abundant giant cave locusts provide basic 
sustenance, they don’t taste particularly good. If half of 
this band is defeated, the rest seek to flee, possibly by 
climbing out of reach of the characters. Eventually, they 
return home to area 4. 




KEY To THE SINK (MAP 31) 




AREA 1 —- THE WAY UP 




A 30-foot-wide opening that leads up to Cavern A is lo- 
cated here. The walls of the sinkhole are somewhat dif- 
ficult to climb, requiring a successful DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check. If the characters make loud noises or 
use bright lights while climbing here, they have a 40% 
chance to attract the attention of five quaggoths from 
area 4. These bestial humanoids use their natural climb- 
ing prowess to engage the scaling characters. A favorite 
ploy is to grapple a target, wrench it free from the wall, 
and toss it to the floor below. 




AREA 2 —- CAVERN FLOOR 




The cavern floor of the Sink glistens with moisture and 
is neatly covered with a fine coat of lichen and fungus. 
The lichen is grazed on by packs of 2d4 + 6 giant cave 
locusts (see appendix B). There are scores of these vermin 
roaming around the cavern. They are easily startled and 
take to the wing to escape predators. During lean times, 
the quaggoths from area 4 cull these packs, although they 




prefer red meat. 




AREA 3 — MINIATURE PYRAMID 




Situated in this natural alcove is an 8-foot-high smooth 
stone pyramid. The base is 10 feet by 10 feet. On its 
eastern surface is an indentation several inches deep and 
shaped like an ankh (see Handout #8 in appendix D). 
Aside from this odd indention there are no other distin- 
guishing features on this edifice. There are no doors or 
any moving parts. 




The origin and background of the miniature pyramid are 
left to the DM to detail. But if the gold ankh key (see 
Cavern E, area 5) is recovered and placed in the indenta- 
tion, something fantastical occurs. A few ideas to whet 
the DM’s imagination include: 




° A chain lightning spell is unleashed from the top of the 
pyramid. It first arcs toward whoever placed the key, 
then toward three other randomly-determined targets 
within range. 




¢ The pyramid is transformed into a solid gold pyramid 
standing 1 foot high (with a 1-foot base). This tiny pyr- 
amid weighs 500 pounds but is solid gold and worth 
10,000 gp. 




° All creatures within 100 feet of the pyramid are magi- 




We oe 
m4 a Ad BDO "§P__ + 
4 7 . —" a - a 




cally shrunk and transported into a tomb secluded in- 
side the pyramid. The only way to escape is to defeat the 
mummy guardian of the tomb and invoke an incanta- 
tion with its enchanted scepter. 




¢ All creatures within 100 feet of the structure are tel- 
eported to a full-sized pyramid located hundreds of 
miles away (or even on another plane of existence, if the 
DM wishes). The miniature pyramid is an exact rep- 
lica of this edifice. By exploring the pyramid and then 
overcoming the traps and guardians within, perhaps the 
PCs can return to the Lower Catacombs. 




AREA 4 — QUAGGOTH LAIR 




Along the south wall are five sets of catacomb passages 
that burrow into the sheer cliff face. Outside the entranc- 
es is a field of humanoid bones and skulls, some crudely 
impaled on the ends of poles and stalagmites. These an- 
cient remains are all that is left of the bodies once interred 
here centuries ago. The new inhabitants of the catacombs 
cleaned out the bodies and deposited them here as a grim 
warning. 




A tribe of 33 quaggoths now lives in these twisting pas- 
sages and niches. They are led by a psionic quaggoth 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SEE SE SLR TTT LO NT TE 




STEERS SE RT SS 




S208) 




RR iP ELS PEA A TAP NLR 




+ Zoe 
AOS 


aw) 


*. 




a 




gq uszanyd TE dVW 




quioseyey Way 
~ SP} = 




© ay ‘Ss 




Yo. 




aT [Maes 




“ay! iis <li zis 




Us 




I< 
To kere 
eli | | tt | | loko tis 




OQ uszanyd 2 dVW 




= UE RS . } 
SA SUE VN 




is ee 
, Mr F R= d ta = 
sy 




SquioznDD 4JaMO07T ZY 




‘jc: wy 
aust mers 


aD) “ Pre Per : 
aS A Rif pH 
IG & Fj lao 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMNATED e THE Lost city 




thonot that has learned how to wield a +1 greatsword 
(+6 to hit, 11 [2d6 + 4] slashing damage). Usually about 
1d12 of these bestial humanoids are out and about the 
Lower Catacombs hunting for fresh meat. 




In the far reaches of the central set of passages is the lair of 
the thonot and the communal treasure. It includes 3,323 
gp, a plain silver crown (145 gp), an electrum chalice set 
with a single sapphire (1,800 gp), six small rubies (500 gp 
each), and a potion of flying in a gray metal vial. 




CAVERN C— THE MINES 
OF MISERY 




The route to this cavern is hidden, a secret protected by 
the darklings. There were ancient catacombs here, but 
years ago the discovery of a ruby mine along the south 
wall prompted a large-scale mining operation spearhead- 
ed by the darklings and their overlord. These catacombs 
have been converted to a mine, and only close inspection 
reveals the original purpose of the chambers. The rubies, 
although not particularly plentiful or of high quality, are 
enough to fund the hobgoblins as guards to forward the 
overlord’s dark designs. A small vein of iron ore discov- 
ered in the northeast corner of the cavern is maintained 
as a source of raw materials for arms and armor. 




This cavern is drier, and the active hobgoblin and darkling 
patrols largely keep the local fauna of the Underdark at 
bay. If the occasional creature appears, such as the delver 
Ggneiss or the giant slug, the hobgoblins exert opposition 
that is usually enough to discourage a long stay. The hob- 
goblins tolerate the wandering packs of giant cave locusts 
and are trained to avoid startling them—and occasionally 
use them as target practice and to supplement to gruel 
served the slaves. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Mines of Misery is a natural cavern. 
The ancient catacombs described above have been con- 
verted, and the constant sound of pick on stone rings out 
throughout the chamber. The floor, although uneven at 
times, is kept free of debris and fungal growth to facilitate 
the movement of slaves, troops, and mined ore. All rock 
and debris are piled up in two towering mounds (area 7) 
near the primary mine entrance (area 4). 




In Chains. Most prisoners encountered here are mana- 
cled together. These chains are thick, requiring a success- 
ful DC 24 Strength (Athletics) check to burst. The locks 
can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 18 
Dexterity check. Hobgoblin guards typically carry a ring 




of keys to unlock the prisoners. 




Ceiling. The ceiling is low throughout this cavern. To 
the east, the ceiling is at most 30 feet high with some 
stalactite formations present. As one moves to the west, 
the ceiling height reduces to about 20 feet, and fewer sta- 
lactites adorn this area. 




Doors. There are no doors in the Mines of Misery. 




Illumination. The dry ambient conditions and the con- 
stant movement of hobgoblins and slaves have reduced 
the luminescent fungal growth common in the other 
caverns. Therefore, the mines are shrouded in darkness. 
Characters bringing light here are soon set upon by an in- 
vestigating patrol of hobgoblins (see below). Occasional 
packs of wandering giant fire beetles provide some areas 
with their illumination. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering monsters 
once every 10 minutes of exploration. Although a typical 
skirmish or combat would likely not attract a wander- 
ing monster, the DM should make an immediate check 
if the characters employ flashy magic (such as fireball or 
lightning bolt) or make an unusual amount of noise. If a 




WANDERING MONSTERS: THE MINES OF MISERY 




2D6 Encounter # App XP 


2 Darklings 2 100 
3-5 Giant fire beetles 4 10 
6-7 Giant cave locusts 2d6+4 50 
8-11 Hobgoblin patrol Varies Varies 
12 Immature xorn 3 450 




Source Notes 
Appendix B 
MM, p. 325 
Appendix B 
MM, p. 186 




Appendix B 




See description 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




natural 1 is rolled on the d6 then a hobgoblin patrol is 
automatically sent to investigate (see below). Otherwise, 
roll 2d6 for the type of monster encountered or choose 
one from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health. 




DARKLINGS 
This pair of darklings (see appendix B) skulks around 




in the shadows, looking for escaped prisoners and sup- 
porting the hobgoblin troops when needed. It’s likely the 
characters never see these two before hand crossbow bolts 
find their mark. After taking a few shots from conceal- 
ment, the darklings flee to summon hobgoblin guards. 




GIANT CAVE LOCUSTS 




Giant cave locusts (see appendix B) are 3-foot-long, 
gray-white grasshopper-like insects that dwell under- 
ground, They detect the characters long before they are 
themselves detected, and remain motionless, utilizing 
their False Appearance trait. If disturbed, a giant cave lo- 
cust panics and leaps up to 60 feet in a random direction 
with a 50% chance to jump toward one of the PCs. If 
within 10 feet of a character following a leap, a giant cave 
locust spits its poison goo. When frightened after being 
disturbed, it emits a loud shriek that has a 20% chance of 
attracting another wandering monster (reroll on the table 
and ignore any result indicating more giant cave locusts). 




GIANT FIRE BEETLES 




Several of these giant vermin roam about the cavern floor. 
If left alone, the giant fire beetles ignore the characters, 
but if harassed, they fight back. If giant fire beetle glands 
are harvested with a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Na- 
ture) check, they glow for 1d6 days—with the added 
benefit that nearby hobgoblins and darklings ignore the 




illumination, assuming it is from a beetle. 




HOBGOBLIN PATROL 




This is a disciplined patrol of 10 hobgoblins performing 
a specific task, such as responding to an alert or escort- 
ing a group of prisoners. All prisoners—either 3d4 Cy- 
nidicean commoners (see appendix C) or 1d4 + 2 deep 
gnomes—are manacled together. Each hobgoblin carries 




2d6 gp. 




IMMATURE XORN 




Three immature xorn (see appendix B) roam about the 
Lower Catacombs looking for precious metals and gems 
to consume. These energetic youths act like rowdy teen- 
agers, bullying organic life-forms into giving metals or 
precious gems in return for not “roughing them up.” If 
one of the characters speaks Terran (or Goblin, as they 
understand a smattering of that tongue), a successful 
DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion) check can sway them to 
friendly. If that is the case, the xorn are willing to trade 
information for metal or gems. They are fully aware of 
the mines (Cavern C), as they are frequently driven away 
by the guards there, and the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F). 
If swayed to friendly, the xorn have a habit of popping 
up (literally, out of the stone floor) at the worst possible 
time to make an encounter more dynamic (or difficult). 
The DM should play these bizarre creatures more for 
comedy than a physical threat, although they do attack 
if prompted. 




KEY To THE MINES OF 
MISERY (MAP 32) 




AREA 1 — GUARD POST 




Two hobgoblins are stationed here on a rock ledge about 
10 feet off the cavern floor to the right of the corridor. 
They observe all who pass from Cavern A to this cavern, 
and if they become suspicious, open fire with heavy cross- 
bows (+3 to hit, range 100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] piercing 
damage). During its second turn, one uses an action to 
sound a horn that alerts the hobgoblins in area 5. Each 
carries 2d6 gp. 




AREA 2 — IRON MINE 




As the characters approach, they hear the din of metal 
on rock. There are two rough-hewn entrances that lead 
to small sets of winding mine shafts. Iron ore was dis- 
covered along this rock, and the darklings began mining 
the ore for use in crafting weapons and armor. It’s a very 
poor vein however, and the darklings are getting close to 
abandoning the operation. 




A token collection of 11 manacled deep gnomes slaves 
are still forced to toil here for hours on end in the hope 
of extracting what meager iron is left in the walls. Each is 
down to half its hit points and suffering level 3 exhaus- 
tion. They are watched by five darklings (see appendix 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




IMs 




B) armed with whips (+5 to hit, reach 10 ft., 5 [1d4 + 3] 
slashing damage) instead of daggers. These masters are 
cruel, but if the deep gnomes sense the characters are an 
opportunity to escape, they attempt to aid, using their 
manacles and chains as improvised weapons (+4 to hit, 2 




[1d4] bludgeoning damage). 




Developments. Freeing these slaves earns the characters 
a 1,000 XP bonus. If they are returned to Keogh and his 
band of deep gnome spies (see Cavern A, area 5), the 
characters gain a staunch ally. Keogh eventually repays 
this debt, either in the form of treasure, by saving the 
characters from certain death with a surprise attack from 
his band, or by offering to escort them deeper into the 
Underdark if that is their ultimate destination. 




AREA 3 — WATERING HOLE 




In the southeast corner of the cavern is a spring-fed pool 
of cold, fresh water. The pool is about 30 feet deep. The 
pool is used by the denizens of this cavern as a source 
of untainted drinking water. Daily, slaves hauling large 
buckets tarry back and forth from the pool to area 5 to 
resupply the casks stored there, or to transport water to 
the slaves in the mines. They also transport some of this 
water to the hobgoblins in the Lost City. 




A few months ago, the hobgoblins captured an albino 
giant crocodile and transported it to this pool. The great 
beast spends all its time on the bottom, save for surfacing 
to breathe. The hobgoblins now use the pool as a con- 
venient way to dispose of expired slaves, or to sometimes 
punish unruly slaves to make an example. As such, if a 
creature approaches the water’s surface, the giant croco- 
dile waits a few rounds, assuming a meal is coming. If 
no offering is made, it lunges out of the water to grab 
its prey. Treat this attack as a surprise, unless the char- 
acters detected the beast. Keep in mind that submerged 
creatures have advantage on all Stealth checks. If the croc 
grabs a creature in its jaws, it is content to retreat to the 
bottom of the pool and casually consume its meal after it 
ceases to struggle. 




AREA 4 — RUBY MINES 




Along the south wall is an extensive set of mines, actively 
worked to extract precious rubies. These passages were once 
ancient catacombs. All evidence of their previous use is 
gone, although the occasional new passage or burial cham- 
ber is unearthed. There is a constant parade of manacled 
slaves moving from the tunnels to the rock piles (area 7). 




This area is busy with activity. At any given time, three 
teams of slaves work the rock walls. There are two groups 
of 12 goblins each, and the other is a group of eight deep 
gnomes. The slaves have blunt picks and shovels. All 
slaves have half their normal hit points and three levels of 
exhaustion. They are overseen by 16 hobgoblins divided 
into four groups of four, armed with heavy crossbows (+3 
to hit, range 100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] piercing damage) 
and whips (+3 to hit, reach 10 ft., 3 [1d4 + 1] slashing 
damage). These guards also carry longswords and 2d6 gp 
each. Three of the groups each oversee a team of slaves 
while the other wanders the passages performing a rou- 
tine patrol. A hobgoblin captain leads the troops here. 
He carries 4d6 gp, a ring of keys to the manacles, and a 
sack of the day’s extracted rubies: 4d4 rough pieces worth 
200 gp each. Once these gems are cut and polished they 
will increase to a value of (1d6 + 4) x 100 gp. 




The hobgoblins respond to any attack with a quick, or- 
ganized counter, while one group attempts to flee to area 
5 to assemble more troops. The goblins cower during any 
attack by the characters, but some of the deep gnomes 
could help even the odds. If it appears the characters have 
the upper hand, the deep gnomes join the combat using 
their manacles, chains, and tools as improvised weapons 




(+4 to hit, 2 [1d4] bludgeoning damage). 




Developments. If the characters disrupt this operation 
and free the slaves, award them 1,000 XP. If the goblins 
are freed, they flee, eventually finding their way back to 
the Goblin Caves (chapter 6, area O). If the deep gnomes 
are freed, they offer to aid the characters. If reunited with 
Keogh and his band (Cavern A, area 5), the characters 
gain a staunch ally. Keogh eventually repays this debt, ei- 
ther in the form of treasure, by saving the characters from 
certain death with a surprise attack from his band, or by 
offering to escort them deeper into the Underdark if that 
is their ultimate destination. 




AREA 5 - HOBGOBLIN OUTPOST 




This 20-foot-by-20-foot tent serves as an outpost for the 
hobgoblins stationed in this cavern. The interior is di- 
vided into two sections. There is a barracks area that has 
16 hammocks used by the hobgoblins to grab some rest 
between shifts, and the remaining part of the tent is a 
mess hall and kitchen to prepare food for the troops and 
a pasty gruel for the slaves. 




At any time, there are 10 off-duty hobgoblins present; 
eight are resting and two are in charge of food prepara- 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




tion (a task viewed as punishment). A 
hobgoblin captain oversees the duty 
rosters and other daily routine tasks. 
Hobgoblins carry 2d6 gp each and the 
captain carries double that amount. 
This captain also carries a set of keys 
to the slaves’ manacles and for the gate 
at area 6. Outside the tent is an open 
cask holding crossbow bolts, and six 
more casks holding water collected 
from the nearby pool (area 3). Near 
the casks are four halberds employed 
by the hobgoblins to keep the giant 
crocodile at bay while slaves fill the 
casks. 




AREA 6 — SLAVE PEN 




A metal gate blocks access to this natural fissure with 
steep walls that reach a height of about 30 feet. Two hob- 
goblin guards are stationed here at all times. There is a 
crude gate that is locked with a huge padlock (the captain 
at area 5 has the only key). The bars can be bent enough 
to provide access with a successful DC 24 Strength (Ath- 
letics) check, or the lock can be picked with thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. 




Inside the pen are slaves manacled to chain gangs in 
groups of six. There are 21 goblins, five Cynidicean 
commoners (see appendix C), and four deep gnomes 
here. All have half their normal hit points, but only one 
level of exhaustion due to reasonable rest. 




Developments. If the characters free these slaves, grant 
them a 1,000 XP award. If the goblins are freed, they flee, 
eventually finding their way back to the Goblin Caves 
(chapter 6, area O). The Cynidicean commoners are no 
help to the characters and need to be escorted back to a 
safe location. If the deep gnomes are freed, they offer to 
aid the characters assuming they can be outfitted with, 
at minimum, weapons. If reunited with Keogh and his 
band (see Cavern A, area 5), the characters gain a staunch 
ally. Keogh eventually repays this debt, either in the form 
of treasure, by saving the characters from certain death 
with a surprise attack from his band, or by offering to 
escort them deeper into the Underdark if that is their 
ultimate destination. 




t 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNA 




SLY 
" 




ESET 




ED e THE Lost City 




SSS SE TET BSS SIG BST aS LTP SS a TNE 




m TY  ceuacllllilae Lm ae 
Lipa Le . whet ibas lh 




Teme Pasig V a ashi p Phat i, sin 1 




i, 
hme g beter Lindy aki) 
“Ha ahi? sidan 




7 




AREA 7 — ROCK PILES 




Outside of the mine entrances are two massive piles of 
mine tailings. The western pile is larger, being nearly 20 
feet high and 30 feet in diameter. The eastern pile is about 
10 feet high and 20 feet in diameter. A nonstop parade of 
weary slaves hauls the tailings by hand, sack, and fungal 
sled from the mine passages to these piles. 




Although the piles do provide cover to avoid the hobgob- 
lins, a grick alpha has recently moved into the larger pile. 
If the characters spend more than a few minutes at this 
pile, the grick alpha attacks. Once this predator picks off 




a few slaves, the hobgoblins will be forced to drive it away. 




AREA 8 — HIDDEN PASSAGE TO THE 
UNDERDARK 




Along the north wall is a hidden passage that winds its 
way deeper into the earth, to the bowels of the Under- 
dark. If the DM desires, this would be the perfect loca- 
tion to design further adventure locations. The darklings 
are aware of the passage, but the hobgoblins are not. The 
darklings took it upon themselves to seal the route and 
conceal it behind a boulder. 




Finding this route requires a successful DC 22 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. An easier method would be to glean 
this information from either a darkling captive, or one of 
the sentient denizens of the caverns in the know. These 
would include Ggneiss the delver, Keogh and his deep 
gnome spies, or the gang of immature xorn. Moving the 
boulder aside requires a successful DC 20 Strength (Ath- 
letics) check. 




APTS eA at 0 HH ARE EG PEI ST SE 




CAVERM D—THE SHROOM 
FARMS OF DOOM 




This natural cavern is the second largest of the Lower 
Catacombs and is home to a colony of myconids. The 
peaceful myconids have taken advantage of the natural 
conditions of the western part of the cavern to cultivate a 
fungus farm. An evil mind flayer arcanist, Cephalakor, re- 
alized the potential of this site to mass produce darkspore, 
a fungus that can be used to distill a mind-influencing 
toxin from its spores. By mass producing the growth of 
darkspore over the past several years—and adding the 
concentrated distilled toxin to the underground lake— 
Cephalakor has the Cynidicean population enthralled in 
a dream-like state which makes them far easier to sub- 
jugate for his master, Zargon. Now the myconids have 
fallen under the sway of the mind flayer, and the farms 
have been converted to produce the fell shroom at peak 
efficiency, to further Cephalakor’s evil machinations. 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Shroom Farms of Doom is a natural 
cavern, but the western half has been extensively altered 
by a colony of myconids. These fungal humanoids have 
transported tons of rich fertile soil and organic compost 
to the terraced farm fields to create a suitable habitat for 
mushroom production. 




There is a small stream, about 3 to 6 feet wide, that origi- 
nates from a crack in the northeast wall, tumbling down 
to the cavern floor and winding its way to an exit on the 
opposite side of the cavern. This stream is easy to cross, 
being sluggish and only about 2 feet deep. There is a sim- 
ple fungal log bridge that joins the sides of cavern, and 
the water on the Shroom Farms of Doom side has been 
partially diverted to the fungus farms as a crude irrigation 
system. 




Ceiling. The eastern half of the cavern has a vaulted ceil- 
ing that ranges in height from 180 to 200 feet. Giant 
bats are common on this ceiling, hanging between its 
numerous stalactites. There is one massive stalactite, the 
Dripping Nadir (see Cavern F), that is about 60 feet in 
diameter at its base and extends about 120 feet towards 
the floor directly over area 4. In the western half of the 
cavern, the ceiling height starts at 25 feet and decreases 
to 10 feet. This area is very damp and moldy, due to its 
proximity to the underground lake above. The constant 
seepage creates the perfect environment to cultivate fun- 
gus. A large opening in the ceiling tapers to a 10-foot- 
diameter shaft that twists and ascends to the Dragon’s 
Domain (Cavern E). 




Illumination. This cavern is bathed in perpetual twi- 
light-like illumination, similar to the Gloam (Cavern A) 
but at reduced intensity. This effect is created by lumi- 
nescent fungi that grow on the walls and ceiling. Despite 
its weakness, the purple haze is still equivalent to dim 
light conditions (see p. 183 of the Players Handbook). 
The fungi that have this luminescent characteristic are 
less common in the western part of the cavern (the tend- 
ed shroom fields), as the myconids carefully remove it to 
encourage more desirable fungal growth. 




Wandering Monsters. Wandering monsters are encoun- 
tered on a roll of 1 on 1d6. Check for wandering mon- 
sters once every 10 minutes of exploration. A wandering 
monster check could also be called for if the characters 
employ flashy magic (such as fireball or lightning bolt) or 
make an unusual amount of noise. A typical skirmish or 
combat would likely not attract a wandering monster. 
Roll 2d6 for the type of monster encountered or choose 
one from the table below. The DM should also adjust the 
number of creatures encountered based on the size of the 
party, their average level, and their general health. 




WANDERING MONSTERS: THE SHROOM FARMS OF DOOM 




2D6 Encounter # App XP Source Notes 


2 Darklings o 100 Appendix B 


3-5 Hobgoblin patrol 6 100 MM, p. 186 


6-8 Myconids Varies Varies MM, pp. 230-232 See description 
9-10 Ogre spore servants 3 450 Appendix B 


11 Giant bats 4 50 MM, p. 323 


12 Immature xorn 3 450 Appendix B 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED e THE LOST City 




IN 




f 




= if> Eo 




Tle 3 
gies PEs. 
Ssh pads 




WOOUHS AHL 
qd wi2an £¢ dv 




SquioznID_D JaMo7] ay] 




ye | 
V2 
WOOGd JO SWHV4 




sik 
oe 




Kai 
ie 
Ae 
bs 
; 




Ted 
0 




O 




2 | 
Pasir 
boleh 


cs 


|| 




AD 
lan 
\e 
\ 
XS 




yy 




i 




aie 
ae 1a = 
| Lf 
PZ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




DARKLINGS 
This pair of darklings (see appendix B) skulks around 




in the shadows, ensuring the myconids remain loyal and 
supporting the hobgoblin troops when needed. It’s likely 
the characters never see these two before hand crossbow 
bolts are released in a surprise attack. After taking a few 
shots from concealment, the darklings flee to summon 




hobgoblin guards. 
GIANT BATS 




Many giant bats roost on the ceiling of the Shroom Farms 
of Doom. From time to time a few of these use their echo- 
location to home in on likely prey, and then perform a few 
flyby attacks. If they encounter strong opposition, after a 
few rounds they flap away to seek easier prey. 




HOBGOBLIN PATROL 




This is a disciplined patrol of six hobgoblins performing 
a specific task. They might be escorting prisoners (2d4 
Cynidicean commoners; see appendix C) or deliver- 
ing food to a hobgoblin camp in this or a nearby cavern. 




Each hobgoblin carries 2d6 gp. 
IMMATURE XORN 




Three immature xorn (see appendix B) roam about the 
Lower Catacombs looking for precious metals and gems to 
consume. These energetic youths act like rowdy teenagers, 
bullying organic life-forms into giving metals or precious 
gems in return for not “roughing them up.” If one of the 
characters speaks Terran (or Goblin, as they understand a 
smattering of that tongue), a successful DC 17 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check can sway them to friendly. If that is the 
case, the xorn are willing to trade information for metal 
or gems. They are fully aware of the mines (Cavern C), as 
they are frequently driven away by the guards there, and 
the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F). If swayed to friendly, the 
xorn have a habit of popping up (literally, out of the stone 
floor) at the worst possible time to make an encounter 
more dynamic (or difficult). The DM should play these 
bizarre creatures more for comedy than a physical threat, 




although they do attack if prompted. 




MYCONIDS 
This is a mixed group of 3d4 myconid sprouts and 1d3 




+ 1 myconid adults. These fungus men are moving be- 
tween area | and the farms at areas 2 and 3. This group 
is indifferent when encountered. If convinced to interact 




with the characters, several myconids move closer and re- 
lease rapport spores (which could be interpreted as an at- 
tack, at the DM’s discretion). The myconids seem to be in 
a drunken state and repeat over and over they must get to 
work in the fields, or back to their caves to meld. If it’s the 
latter, the characters are invited to the meld. (See area 1] 
for details.) Otherwise, the myconids hurry to areas 2 and 
3. There is a 50% chance this encounter is observed by a 
pair of darklings (see above; see appendix B for stats). 




OGRE SPORE SERVANTS 




This group of three ogre spore servants (see appendix 
B) are used to transport harvested darkspore mushroom 
caps from the fields at area 3 to the landing pad at area 6 
for eventual delivery to the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F). 
Although not undead, these vegetative “constructs” ig- 
nore all interaction with the characters in pursuit of their 
mindless task of transport. If directly prevented from this 
task, they attack and fight until destroyed. 




KEY TO THE SHROOM FARMS 
OF DOOM (MAP 33) 




AREA 1 —- MYCONID CAVES 




This is a set caves located along the north wall. A foot- 
path meanders from the cavern floor to reach these caves. 
There are 10 total caves on four levels. 




The first two levels (six caves total) are used by 48 my- 
conid sprouts. Each cave is about 20 feet in diameter 
and covered with a fine layer of rich, dark soil that the 
myconids “plant” themselves in while resting for about 
8 hours each day. The rest of their time awake is divided 
into “melding” (see sidebar) and working the Shroom 
Fields of Doom (areas 2 and 3). 




The third level consists of three caves. Each is home to 
eight myconid adults. A typical cave on this level is 30 
feet in diameter and it has a thicker layer of fertile soil 
for the adults to “plant” in while resting. These adult my- 
conids share a similar structured daily schedule: 8 hours 
of rest, 8 hours of melding (see sidebar), and 8 hours of 




working the fields. 




The last cave is situated above all the others, about 50 feet 
off the cavern floor. This cave is about 40 feet in diameter 
and is reserved for the myconid sovereign. The cave con- 
tains a crude stone table (where the sovereign mixes its 
elixirs and creates spore servants), and a pile of compost 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City x 




s “ tS ae B . 
it uses to “plant” into when it needs rest. The sovereign 
controls all the activities of the myconids. Control the 




sovereign, and you can control the entire tribe—which is 
precisely what Cephalakor has done. Each day the mind 
flayer visits the sovereign’s cave and casts dominate mon- 
ster, directing the myconids to do his bidding. That bid- 
ding is to produce as much darkspore fungus as possible. 
Although the myconid population is aware of this cor- 
ruption, there is little they can do to resist its effects. 




The sovereign is indifferent if the characters arrive here 
to parley. It acts aloof and uncaring, claiming it has no 
time for “fleshwalkers.” During conversations, it drops 
hints about the subjection of its colony, and adds hints 
of “grasping tentacles of evil” and such. Although unable 
to openly betray its master, it also tries to encourage the 
characters to meld with a circle of myconids hoping their 
dream-like state is enough to unveil the darkness grip- 
ping its people. 


Stored on a shelf above the stone table are six potions 
brewed by the sovereign. Each is in a hollowed woody 
mushroom cap with a lid. These potions include: three 
potions of healing, a potion of mind reading, a potion of vi- 
tality, and a potion of luck (see appendix A). The sovereign 
gives these potions to the characters if they destroy Ceph- 
alakor and restore order to the myconid community. 




AREA 2 —- MUSHROOM FOREST 




The upper terrace is a more natural fungal forest, similar 
to the one in the Gloam. A variety of wild, untamed fun- 
gal growth—from massive toadstools to short puffballs 
and shelf fungus—teems here. Slowly, this terrace is being 
converted. When the characters first arrive here, they like- 
ly encounter a myconid meld taking place. (See sidebar.) 




THE MELD 




For 8 hours a day, a circle of myconids enter a trance- 
like state of communal meditation through the use 
of rapport spores, pacifying spores, and the myconid 
sovereign's hallucination spores. A circle consists of 
16 myconid sprouts and eight myconid adults. If the 
characters sway a group of myconids to friendly, they 
are invited to join a circle to meld. 




During the dream-like trance, the characters observe 
the colony conducting everyday activities in distinct 
harmony. But then darkness descends on the colony 
in the form of shadowy cloaked figures (darklings). 
Finally, a purple-skinned tentacled humanoid materi- 
alizes from the shadows and the sovereign is hopeless 
in its presence. Its four tentacles probe the sovereign’s 
cranium as arcane energy sweeps from its hands. Soon 
the sovereign is in complete control, and the leader's 
demeanor switches to that of a servant, full of despair... 




Before the meld is complete, a force of 10 hobgoblins 
led by four darklings (see appendix B) attacks the 
characters. The PCs are in a haze for the first 3 rounds 
of the combat, having disadvantage on all attack rolls, 
saving throws, and skill checks. Meanwhile the myco- 
nids scatter. 




e—__________________e 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AREA 3 — DARKSPORE FIELDS 




These fields are the Shroom Fields of Doom, as the myco- 
nids have been forced to convert the once lush tangle of 
rampant fungus growth to a monoculture of short toad- 
stools with purple hues and black pustules containing 
the spores. Called darkspores, these fungi produce spores 
that are harvested and distilled to extract a potent toxin 
used to create the elixir of fantasy (see chapter 3) that is 
being used to control the Cynidicean population. When 
ripe and full of spores, these toadstools are harvested by 
the myconids, transported by ogre spore servants to the 
landing pads (area G), and then shuttled up the Dripping 
Nadir (Cavern F) via giant bats. 




The fields are tended by rotating shifts of 16 myconid 
sprouts and eight myconid adults. They are assisted by 
12 hobgoblin spore servants in the fields and six ogre 
spore servants (see appendix B for both) that move the 
harvested toadstools to area 6. All this activity is under 
the watchful eye of 10 hobgoblins armed with heavy 
crossbows (+3 to hit, range 100/400 ft., 6 [1d10 + 1] 
piercing damage), and four darklings (see appendix B) 
skulking in the shadows. 




AREA 4 — ALCHEMICAL POOL 




Directly under the Dripping Nadir is a pool of alchemi- 
cal goo that has seeped its way from the laboratory above 
to accumulate here. The pool is about 15 feet in diam- 
eter and 10 feet deep, and the caustic substances are eat- 
ing away at the stone floor of the cavern. Observing the 
pool for a few minutes reveals the constant dripping from 
above, although the massive stalactite itself can’t be ob- 
served in the gloom high overhead. 




A bizarre ooze-like creature called an alchemost (see ap- 
pendix B) has been created from this noxious effluent. 
It attacks any that approach within 10 feet of the pool. 
Cephalakor has conducted experiments on this pool us- 
ing arcane energy sources to cultivate it. He is fascinated 
by its traits and in time would like to learn about how to 
create more of the stuff for some forsaken purpose. 




AREA 5 - HOBGOBLIN CAMP 




Located on this natural plateau situated about 20 feet 
off the cavern floor are several canvas tents; steps carved 
crudely into the cliff face provide easy access. This is an- 
other hobgoblin encampment. There are four 10-foot- 
by-10-foot tents and one 10-foot-by-20-foot tent. Three 
of the small tents house six hobgoblins each, while the 




remining tent is used by a hobgoblin captain that over- 
sees this force. Ten of these troops are stationed in the 
fields (area 3) so only eight are likely to be encountered 
here. The large tent is used as a mess hall and for weapon 
storage. 




AREA 6 — LANDING PAD 




Three small 10-foot tents are located near an elevated sur- 
face. The tents are used by six darklings (see appendix B) 
stationed here to oversee operations. Four of these dar- 
klings are usually skulking about in this cavern or one of 
the others, so only two are likely to be found here. The 
tents contain hammocks for sleeping, but nothing else in 
the way of personal effects. 




The elevated surface was once a natural ledge, about 30 
feet long and 10 feet wide. The ledge has been smoothed 
with tools and on either side crude steps have been chis- 
eled into the stone to provide access to the elevated sur- 
face. It now serves as a landing pad for giant bats and 
riders from the Dripping Nadir (Cavern F) above. A few 
times per day, four giant bats with goblin riders arrive 
at this pad to collect baskets of harvested darkspore toad- 
stools for transport to Cephalakor’s stalactite lair and lab- 
oratory. It usually takes them three or four trips to shuttle 
up all the harvested toadstools. 




CAVERN E — THE 
DRAGOT’S DOMAIN 




A somewhat small cavern is situated above the Shroom 
Fields of Doom (Cavern D). This cavern is the home 
of Dagothra, young brown dragon (see appendix C). 
Dagothra is active, often wandering around the desert 
above, accosting travelers for a snack of horse flesh or 
pulling some kind of juvenile draconic prank. Note that 
juvenile draconic pranks are often lethal to humanoids! 
There is only a 50% chance he is in his lair if the charac- 
ters arrive here, possibly playing in his sand pit (area 2) or 
lightly sleeping on his geothermal pad (area 3). 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Dragon’s Domain is a natural cavern, 
although it’s been altered by Dagothra’s burrowing. He 
also transported tons of sand from the desert above to 
this chamber for his own comfort. The passage from the 
ceiling in Cavern D winds its way up to this chamber, of- 
ten requiring vertical climbs. These climbs require three 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ites RSTAESES oI) 




separate successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) checks to 




navigate safely. 




Ceiling. The ceiling here is about 25 to 35 feet high. 
Most of the stalactites once here have been broken and 
removed, mostly for use as snacks over the years. Dago- 
thra enjoys munching on the mineral-laden rocks as if 
they were candy, and much like a box of chocolates, you 
never know what the taste will be, as it is based on vary- 
ing mineral content! 




Illumination. There is no illumination here. 




Wandering Monsters. There are no wandering monsters 
encountered in the Dragon’s Domain. He eats them all! 




KEY TO THE DRAGON'S 
DOMAIN (MAP 34) 




AREA 1 — ESCAPE ROUTE 




Dagothra maintains a passage he burrowed up to the Lost 
City as an escape route. (Once in the city he then has 
other concealed routes to get to the surface.) The passage 
is in the ceiling, about 20 feet off the floor. It requires 




, 34 Cave 
# The Lower Catacombs 




DOMAIN vii 




ew? 




SHY ReARZe 
SKS “ 
Se BET ACTS 
3 Bm 




a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to no- 
tice from the floor, unless the dragon is observed fleeing 
through it. It winds vertically for about 75 feet, requiring 
a successful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) check to climb. 
It leads to an abandoned building in the city and is con- 
cealed with a massive slab of stone. To move the stone 
from below a creature must succeed on a DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Unless the creature is Large or bigger 
it has disadvantage on the check, because it needs to bal- 
ance in the shaft during the process. 




AREA 2 —- SAND PIT 




A natural alcove in the cavern is about 50 feet across and 
60 feet wide. This is actually a 25-foot-deep pit, but the 
floor is covered with black sand that is slightly warm to 
the touch. The warming effect is from geothermal heat. 
Dagothra uses this area as a playroom, enjoying burrow- 
ing into the sand and hiding boulders for seeking later. 
There are three such boulders in the sand. 




When the characters arrive here, there is a 30% chance 
Dagothra is here hiding and awaiting them. Otherwise 
he is in his warming pit. 




— 




a 




Clligg 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




we WSN 
et 


fi fee a i . 
OMA 




AREA 3 — WARMING PIT 




Most of this area is depressed about 10 feet below the 
cavern. The floor here is warm to the touch, from geo- 
thermal heating, and covered with a fine layer of sand 
perhaps 6 inches deep. Some of the sand is piled up as a 
nest for the dragon. This is where Dagothra sleeps, and if 
present in his lair when the characters arrive, he is most 
often here (70% chance). 




Dagothra is young and cocky. He assumes he is more 
powerful than puny humans and demands to know why 
they assault his lair. While not fond of talking, he is fond 
of pranks. He often extends a claw to shake on a deal, 
only to use acid splash for a good laugh. If the charac- 
ters are willing to trade him a horse (to eat) he might be 
willing to share information, such as a route to the sur- 
face or something about Cephalakor and his operation. 
The dragon avoids the mind flayer, and his minions give 




Dagothra plenty of space. 




Unless the characters woo him and appeal to his dracon- 
ic vanity, the intrusion likely leads to a fight. Dagothra 
starts with his breath weapon. Then he uses his Sand- 
storm action, as there is enough sand here for a suitable 
effect. Then, while his breath weapon recharges, he enters 




\\\ ; ‘A i 
ie 
i" Wp yi ey 




A 




SS aw St 
PF TA ATE 




melee with claw/claw/bite attacks. If reduced to 20 hit 
points or fewer, he flees to the surface via area 1. 




AREA 4 — SECRET PASSAGE 




A large rock covers this secret route down to the upper 
chambers of the Dripping Nadir (Cavern FE area 12). The 
mind flayer recently had this passage installed as an escape 
route of his own. In exchange for a pile of treasure and six 
fine horses, Dagothra permitted its installation and use. A 
large rock covers the entrance, requiring a successful DC 
18 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate and a successful 




DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check to move aside. 




AREA 5 - CONCEALED TREASURE 




Dagothra is like most dragons in that he adores a large 
pile of treasure—it’s just that he would prefer the comfort 
of warmed sand as opposed to sleeping on his loot. Thus, 
his treasure is hidden in a cavern behind a large rock. It 
requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check 
to locate this chamber. Next, it takes a successful DC 22 
Strength (Athletics) check to remove the rock blocking 
access. Beyond is a 10-foot-high chamber perhaps 30 feet 
in diameter. On the floor is a mound of treasure: 




LS ET AL ENN ETSI 




‘Wm tei at atten RE pe URE SEA ET ARANDA STDS INE IO ES GET SENET SELENE SEADOO AT SN eA 




° A pile of coins including 16,355 cp, 8,876 sp, 2,567 gp, 
and 222 pp 




¢ An assortment of gems including three red carnelians 
(50 gp each), seven violet garnets (100 gp each), a pale 
green peridot (500 gp), and two star rubies (1,000 gp 
each) 




¢ A 2-foot length of silver chain (225 gp) 


* An elven harp with electrum strings (675 gp) 


¢ A wooden sarcophagus inlaid with gold (800 gp) 
° A gold statuette of a dragon (1,150 gp) 




* A golden ankh (1,500 gp) (see Handout #8 in appendix 
D) 




¢ A platinum bracelet set with rubies (2,200 gp) 
° A mace of disruption 


° A cloak of the bat 


° A staff of healing 


© A ring of resistance (cold) 




Development. The golden ankh is actually a key to un- 
lock the miniature pyramid in Cavern B, area 3. 




CAVERN F — THE 
DRIPPING HADIR 




The Dripping Nadir is a massive stalactite that is located 
on the ceiling above the Shroom Fields of Doom (Cav- 
ern D). In league with Zargon is a powerful mind flayer 
arcanist named Cephalakor. He chose this remote area as 
his personal lair and the location of an alchemical labora- 
tory used to produce the elixir of fantasy. By administer- 
ing this toxic elixir to the Cynidicean water supply (the 
underground lake) he keeps the population in a dream- 
like state, making them easy to confuse and manipulate. 
This is the basis of Zargon’s rule—although it really could 
be considered Cephalakor’s rule, as he does all the work 
while Zargon wallows away in its slime pit trying to sati- 
ate its hunger. At some point, the power-hungry mind 
flayer might be so bold as to wrest control of the Cyn- 
idiceans from Zargon and its cult, and then he and his 
minions the darklings can reign supreme. 




eee 




oricinaL | ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE Lost City 




LS SEN TLE AT RTT TT 




GENERAL FEATURES 




Construction. The Dripping Nadir was a natural forma- 
tion. The interior rooms of the stalactite were carved with 
magic and tools, as was the exterior spiral staircase lead- 
ing to two levels of chambers in the ceiling. These loca- 
tions are all hewn stone that has been finished. 




Ceiling. The ceilings inside the Dripping Nadir and the 
associated upper levels are all 10 feet high and smooth, 
finished stone. 




Doors. All doors in the Dripping Nadir are stone (AC 
17, 35 hit points, vulnerability to bludgeoning damage, 
resistance to piercing and slashing damage). Forcing one 
open requires a successful a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) 
check. 




Illumination. The interior chambers of the Dripping 
Nadir are dark, unless otherwise noted. 




Wandering Monsters. There are no wandering monsters 




in the Dripping Nadir. 




et 




SE stra ee AIT RN ES PR NE Ta 




TARR 




eames 




KEY TO THE DRIPPING NADIR. 
(MAP 35) 




AREA 1 — LANDING PLATFORMS 




At the bottom of the Nadir, on its exterior surface are two 
flat stone shelves. One is 15 feet wide and 30 feet long, 
while the other (lower) one is 15 feet wide and 20 feet 
long. A staircase is carved into the exterior of the Nadir 
to provide access to the upper chambers. Hanging under 
each of the platforms are six giant bats. They are loyal to 
the werebat Bathora (see area 2) and are used to transport 
the darkspore fungus from the cavern below to the labo- 
ratory above. Unless the characters disturb the giant bats 
when they arrive here, the giant bats are content to sleep 
peacefully and ignore them. 




AREA 2 - BATHORA’S CHAMBER 




A stone door blocks access to this chamber. Inside is the 
lair of Bathora, a female werebat (see appendix B) loyal 
to Cephalakor. She is responsible for tending to the giant 
bats in area 1, and for assisting the riders (see area 3) with 
handling the giant bats during transportation. She often 
assumes giant bat form and flies nearby when transporta- 
tion is occurring, which is typically once or twice a day 
for about an hour. At other times she can be found here 
resting, although there is a 20% chance she is out hunt- 
ing in one of the caverns. 




Her chamber is a rough-hewn hollow about 10 feet in 
diameter. She has a simple bed, table, and chair, all com- 
posed of woody fungus logs. Under the bed is a leather 
sack that contains her treasure: 300 ep, 75 gp, and 10 
gold trade bars (50 gp each). The latter are 6-inch-long 
gold ingots used by Underdark traders instead of coins. 
Each is marked with a mushroom, the symbol of a distant 
drow merchant company. Bathora wears six gold earrings 
(75 gp each) and three gold rings (worth 55 gp, 85 gp, 
and 225 gp, respectively). 




AREA 3 — BAT RIDER BARRACKS 




A stone door blocks access to this chamber. Inside is a 
cramped, 15-foot-diameter, hollowed-out room with six 
hammocks. This room is reserved for six goblins trained 
to fly the giant bats. They spend their down time sleep- 
ing and throwing dice in games of chance. Bat riding is 
dangerous work (a goblin falls to its death about once 
every month), so these humanoids are paid well. Their 




collected gambling loot includes 221 ep and 469 gp. In 




EFTTA ETT 




Sy ee PE ND SPE I SP APRESS SED HRSA BE SRT STR 




RN ELE ITT PES IS IT ERLE CUES 




addition to several mundane sets of dice (some are load- 
ed) one goblin has a set of six purple quartz dice (worth 
120 gp as a set). 




AREA 4 — STOREROOM 




A stone door blocks access to this chamber. The exterior 
staircase ends here. Inside is a 25-foot-diameter room. 
Hanging on the circular walls are 12 leather saddles sized 
for Small creatures, designed to be affixed to giant bats. 
These are for the goblin bat riders and are stored here 
when not in use. There is an obvious trapdoor in the ceil- 
ing with a rope ladder hanging from it. This leads to the 




lower level of the complex in the ceiling. 




Inside the shaft, metal rungs are set into the wall. The 
third rung is a trap and the residents in the facility know 
to skip it. If not detected with a successful DC 15 Wis- 
dom (Perception) check, a target that grabs that rung 
pulls it out and must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw. A success indicates the target grabbed onto an- 
other rung, but a failure results in the target falling and 
taking 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. Unless magical si- 




lence is used, this alerts the guards in area 5. 




AREA 5 —- GUARDROOM 




Four darkling (see appendix B) guards are posted in this 
chamber. If the characters triggered the ladder trap below, 
these guards are waiting to attack with surprise in the first 
round. If not, the darklings assume the characters are gob- 
lins or Bathora coming up to the labs. In this case, they 
don’t attack until they identify the characters. Glib charac- 
ters can try to fast-talk their way past these guards, but it re- 
quires a successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check and 
speaking in Elvish or Sylvan. The guards fight to the death. 




There is a secret door on the north wall. It can be located 
with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
Once found, it can be easily opened by sliding it to the 
left. It leads to area 9 on the level above. 




AREA 6 — EAST LABORATORY 




A stone door leads to this 40-foot-diameter circular labora- 
tory. There is a stone table in the center and many smaller 
tables along the walls. The interior of the room is black- 
ened, as if scorched by an explosion. The floor is covered 
with shattered glass and there is an acrid smell to the room. 
Two grates on the floor dump waste outside of the Nadir 
(which accumulates in area 4 of Cavern D). A few weeks 
ago, there was an explosion here, hence the destruction. 




eet sts rremtaeeerst rnnensarasrST SSIES ST PRELETT GTE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE Lost city 




SSS TS PPS ST 




> 




\ 
. aM. 
S-hiry {Rwy 
v 




, " 


a. vp * 
ws 


NS # 


a Nine 


“ie wi \ 


Ly t oe 


‘ 


: 0; 


é } 


I f 




x 
7, 




SS 
bs | 




I 




A 




V, 




Did Sujpun7 
Sint 




da 




DD. ! 




X 




ONId 
PO 9 >) 




ae 




~ 
~ 
: d 




=YIGWN 




\Aes 
Sq 




Aaser: 
UEOQNISST: 




EN 




Kee 
iN Na-7 y ef 




LY 
a 
A=aaaT 1230 
AWSr, 
i aa] 42 
<i Ul 




Se i: X 




S 
Viz 




a 
ips 
TRUSS 




SN Wey 
SIAS 
SY UGE - = 
Ay 




3) 
TPS 




iy 




A PS 
) 
TLD S 
ft tT | DA 
Z 4 
< 




\ aX Z 
Gy 




| 




AL, 




y, 
DP 




Sit 
/) 




\ Nae 




STENT 




aaa i = 
g 
Wh, 




2dRJING O}U] 
Panies sueys | 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




AREA 7 — WEST LABORATORY 




This is a fully functioning alchemical laboratory. The 
center of the room is dominated by a stone table, its sur- 
face pitted and scored by acid. Around the room are sev- 
eral other smaller stone tables. All the tables are covered 
with glassware, beakers, tubes, and other alchemy sup- 
plies. Most of the equipment pertains to distilling. This 
is where the darkspore fungus spores are extracted and 
distilled to create the elixir of fantasy. All told, the lab 
equipment here is worth 4,000 gp, but most of it is deli- 
cate and transporting it would be a slow process. 




There is a 40% chance the darkling master (see appen- 
dix B) is here, distilling darkspore toxin. If he is not here, 
then he can be found in area 10. If encountered here, he 
attacks with his magic rapier but refuses to use alchemi- 
cal bombs as there is fragile equipment that would likely 
get damaged. If outnumbered he tries to flee to area 5, if 
possible, to use the secret door, using his Necrotic Dark- 
ness to cover his escape. If that route is blocked, he flees 
to area 8; while en route he quaftfs his potion and prepares 
to use the alchemical bombs once in the storeroom. 




AREA 8 —- STOREROOM 




Each of these two chambers is a 20-foot-by-30-foot store- 
room. 




The eastern storeroom contains 15 crates, each holding 
20 empty glass vials. These are used to store the elixir of 
fantasy before it is administered to the water supply. 




The western storeroom is packed with 35 crates. Most 
(22) of these are full of rubbery fungus packing material 
enveloping 10 glass vials. These vials are full of elixir of 
fantasy, ready for distribution. 




AREA 9 —- BARRACKS 




This 30-foot-by-50-foot room serves as living quarters for 
the darklings stationed here. There are 10 beds lining the 
walls, and an area to cook and take meals. There are only 
six darklings (see appendix B) present here at any given 
time, as the others are stationed in area 5. 




Development. Any battle here gets the attention of the 
darkling master (from area 10) and Cephalakor (from 
area 11). If present at those locations, they arrive here in 
2 rounds ready to support the guards, Cephalakor with 
spells and the darkling master with alchemical bombs. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Seem, 




AREA 10 - DARKLING MASTER ROOM 




This circular chamber belongs to the darkling master 
(see appendix B). If not encountered in area 7, then he is 
here poring over texts of alchemical formulae. If encoun- 
tered here, the darkling master unleashes his alchemical 
bombs before switching to his magic rapier to defend 
himself. If reduced to 10 hit points or fewer and he sees 
an escape route, he uses his Necrotic Darkness and flees 
toward area 11 to use the secret route there. 




The chamber has a plush carpet, a divan, and a wrought- 
iron bed. There is a stone table and a bookcase built into 
the northeast wall full of books. The books are all journals 
and alchemy texts written in Elvish. There are 17 books, 
each worth 25 gp, plus numerous other journals, logs, 
and notebooks of data and records. Under the bed is an 
unlocked wooden chest that holds 120 pp and a pouch of 
four rubies (1,000 gp each). 




AREA 11 —- CEPHALAKOR’S ROOM 




This circular chamber belongs to the mind flayer arcan- 
ist Cephalakor. He can often be found here, except dur- 
ing his daily trek to Cavern D to cast dominate monster on 
the myconid sovereign. If confronted here, he strikes out 
with his Mind Blast. While that recharges, he uses spells. 
He prefers to cast invisibility, and then prepares to cast an 
offensive spell such as lightning bolt, ray of enfeeblement, 
or confusion. The mind flayer fights to the death, know- 
ing failure will result in Zargon’s wrath. Tucked into the 
folds of his robes is a key, which can be used to unlock 
the chest in area 12. 




The mind flayer has a loyal dust mephit named Silt. The 
dust mephit acts as a courier for the mind flayer, being 
kept busy delivering missives to the various outposts in 
the lower caverns, the hobgoblin stronghold up above, 
the cult of Zargon, and even Zargon itself. There is a 60% 
chance that the mephit is on such an errand when the 
characters arrive. If he is present, he will defend his mas- 
ter. He starts by using his breath weapon and then uses 
an attuned wand of web while that recharges. If his master 




falls, Silt flees. 




This room is covered with a plush carpet. An iron bed 
covered with silk pillows and sheets (worth 400 gp as a 
set) is pushed against one wall. A silk changing screen 
(worth 300 gp, but delicate) is unfolded near the bed, 
and numerous cloaks and robes are on pegs affixed to 
the wall behind it. A stone table and a comfortable 




=< ms SAE He EET RE RR 




f 
STREET FEHR TRE TEE 




a ATL AIT EH LEAT 




Reet : 
sda he 




i 




high-backed chair are along the north wall. Sitting on 
the table, on a platinum holder (1,100 gp), is a crystal 
ball. Cephalakor uses it to scry on many locations in the 
Lower Catacombs (observing his operation), in the Lost 
City above, and even in the pyramid at times. Based on 
his observations, he is quick to respond by sending his 
mephit courier or by taking more forceful action. Nearby 
on the table are journals of notes on darkspore produc- 
tion and dosing calculations in massive amounts of water, 
recorded in Deep Speech. Examining these notes for 1 
hour reveals his whole diabolical plan of domination in 




the glory of Zargon. 




There is a secret door on the east wall. It can be found 
with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
Once found, a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investiga- 
tion) check is required to find and operate the release, 
which allows the door to push inward. It leads to area 12. 




SA RPE IA ORT 




——— ST 
p 
»% 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCA 




"nase pane aOR, NATO IE 5 Sr a 




Jn 
\(2225 
A \ f 




oar PIES 




RATED e THE Lost city 




AREA 12 —- SECRET CHAMBER 




This 10-foot-wide hallway is 20 feet long. It ends at a 
trapdoor in the ceiling with metal rungs leading up to it. 
Through the secret door is a passage that climbs about 50 
feet toan exit in the Dragon’s Domain (Cavern E, area 4). 




Also, in this chamber is a large stone chest that is locked. 
Cephalakor carries the only key. The lock can be picked 
with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity 
check. The chest contains: 




° 1,225 pp 




° A velvet-lined teak box (200 gp) holding three rubies 
(5,000 gp each) 




* A string of black pearls (1,700 gp) 


* A platinum rod set with sapphires (3,000 gp) 


¢ A clay urn holding four doses of Keoghtom’ ointment 


° A periapt of health 


° A +2 shortsword 


— And here ends the exploration of The Lost City. — 




FT RST SETS SEIT 




SST T EAST 




1m eter EE 




APPENDIX A 




New Magic Items & Spells 




NEW MAGIC ITEMS 




FIGURINE OF WONDROUS POWER 
Wondrous item, rarity by figurine 




This figurine is shaped like the beast it becomes, and is 
small enough to fit in a pocket. In all respects, it is simi- 
lar to other figurines described in the Dungeon Masters 




Guide (pp. 169-170). 
Crystal Blink Dogs (Rare). These clear crystal statuettes 




always come in sets of three, sometimes set on a leather 
cord to wear around one’s neck. They shimmer and wink 
when reflecting light. Each statuette can become a blink 
dog (Monster Manual, p. 318) that loyally serves the 
bearer. The blink dogs can be summoned one at time, in 
a pair, or all three at once. They last for 6 hours total be- 
fore becoming inert for 7 days. This duration is reduced 
the more dogs are summoned: one summoned blink dog 
lasts 6 hours, two summoned blink dogs last 3 hours, and 




all three blink dogs last for 1 hour. 




FOLDING BRIDGE 




Wondrous item, rare 




This object appears to be a bundle of firewood or wood- 
en slats about 24 inches long and 12 inches in diameter, 
secured by silk rope with silver woven throughout. The 
whole bundle weighs only 5 pounds. It has three command 
words, each requiring you to use an action to speak it. 




One command word causes it to unfold into a 2-foot- 
wide, 60-foot-long rope bridge. Each rope end acts as a 
rope of climbing, automatically securing itself to a suitable 
anchor point. The bridge can support 1,500 pounds in 
this form. 




The second command word creates a stiff, slatted bridge 
that can be arched to pass over something with an eleva- 
tion of 10 feet. In this case its distance is reduced to 40 
feet in length, but it is stronger and can support 2,000 
pounds. 




The third command word causes the bridge to fold back 
up. If this command word is uttered while a creature is 
on the bridge (either form), it must succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw to safely get off the bridge. 




ORIGI 




HELM OF OPPOSITE ALIGNMENT 




Wondrous item, uncommon 




This appears to be a typical metal cap or helm. It radiates 
a faint magical dweomer. If held and examined for more 
than a few moments, a creature must succeed on a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw, or place the helm on its head, 
triggering the curse. 




Curse. Once a creature places the helm on its head, the 
curse takes effect immediately. The creature’s alignment 
shifts to the radical opposite: good to evil, law to chaos, 
and neutral to an absolute commitment (LE, LG, CE, or 
CG). Unless a remove curse spell is cast within 10 minutes 
of placing the helm on its head, only a wish spell can 
break the enchantment, allowing the helm to be removed 
and returning the creature’s alignment to its original state. 




POTION OF LEVITATION 




Potion, rare 




When you drink this potion, you gain the effects of the 
levitate spell for 10 minutes (no concentration required). 
The potion’s light blue fluid is carbonated and seems to 
be light and airy. 




POTION OF LUCK 




Potion, very rare 




This viscid liquid appears to be quicksilver and it has an 
acrid, metallic taste. When you quaff this potion, you are 
infused with magical luck. Over the next hour, you may 
reroll an attack roll, saving throw, or ability check. This 
luck effect can be used three times, but only once for a 
particular attack roll, saving throw, or ability check. You 
must use the second roll. Lady Luck is fickle, and it’s not 




all good luck! 
RING OF WEAKNESS 




Ring, uncommon (requires attunement) 




This simple copper band lacks all markings, although it 
does radiate magic if detected for. The ring doesn’t appear 
to do anything until it becomes attuned. 




Curse. Once attuned, the wearer’s Strength is reduced to 3. 




TIAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City xX 




WAND OF ILLUSION 




Wand, uncommon (requires attunement by a spellcaster) 




This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can use 
an action to expend a charge to cast major image. The 
major image can be maintained with concentration for 
up to 10 minutes for each additional charge expended. 
For example, you expend 1 charge to cast the spell and 
another 1 charge (2 total) for a 10-minute duration, an- 
other 2 charges (3 total) for a 20-minute duration, etc. 




The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at 
dawn. If you expend the wand’s last charge, roll a d20. 
On a 1, the wand dissolves into a puff of magical energy 
and is destroyed. 




WAND OF TRAP DETECTION 




Wand, uncommon 




This metal wand has 3 charges. While holding it, you can 
expend 1 charge as an action to cast find traps. The wand 
points and vibrates at any trap within 120 feet of you. 
Any saving throws to avoid the effects of a detected trap 
are made with advantage. 




The wand regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. If 
you expend the wand’s last charge, roll ad20. On a 1, the 
wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED 




NEW SPELLS 
CONJURE MONSTROSITY 




4th-level conjuration 




Casting Time: 1 action 


Range: 60 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a bit of bone or fur, or a coin) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You summon monstrosities that appear in unoccupied 
spaces that you can see within range. You choose one of 
the following options for what appears: 


* One monstrosity of challenge rating 3 or lower 


¢ Two monstrosities of challenge rating 2 or lower 


¢ Four monstrosities of challenge rating 1 or lower 




¢ Eight monstrosities of challenge rating 1/2 or lower. 




A summoned creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit 
points or when the spell ends. 




The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your 
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures 
as a group, which have their own turns. They obey any 
verbal commands (such as attack, guard, etc.) that you 
issue to them (no action required by you). If you don’t is- 
sue any commands to them, they defend themselves from 
hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions. 




At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using certain 
higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summon- 
ing options above, and more creatures appear: twice as 
many with a 6th-level slot and three times as many with 
an 8th-level slot. 




CONJURE OOZE 




5th-level conjuration 




Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 60 feet 




Components: V, S, M (a bit of slime or gooey substance 
such as honey or tree sap) 




Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 




You summon ooze creatures that appear in unoccupied 
spaces that you can see within range. You choose one of 
the following options for what appears: 




* One ooze creature of challenge ratting 4 or lower 
¢ Two ooze creatures of challenge rating 2 or lower 
¢ Four ooze creatures of challenge rating 1 or lower 




¢ Eight ooze creatures of challenge rating 1/2 or lower. 




e THE Lost city 




A summoned creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit 
points or when the spell ends. 




The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your 
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures 
as a group, which have their own turns. They obey any 
verbal commands (such as attack, guard, etc.) that you 
issue to them (no action required by you). If you don’t is- 
sue any commands to them, they defend themselves from 
hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions. 




At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using certain 
higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summon- 
ing options above, and more creatures appear: twice as 
many with a 7th-level slot and three times as many with 
an 9th-level slot. 




HOLD PORTAL 




1st-level transmutation 




Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 120 feet 




Components: V, S, M (a few splinters of wood, flecks of 
stone, or filings of metal) 




Duration: 1 minute 




This spell magically bars any nonmagical door or gate up 
to 10 feet in height. The appropriate material component 
of the material to be held must be supplied during the 
casting. The casting holds the door fast as if it were locked 
or barred. The portal can’t be picked with thieves’ tools, 
although a dispel magic or knock spell can be used to bypass 
this magic. A successful DC 22 Strength (Athletics) check 




will break down such an enchanted portal. 




At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration of the spell 




increases by 1 minute for each slot level above 1st. 




SLIME SPIT 




Conjuration cantrip 


Casting Time: 1 action 


Range: 30 feet 


Components: V, S 


Duration: Instantaneous 


You spit a wad of viscid slime at a target within range. 
The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
be struck by the slimy goo. A struck target takes 1d8 acid 
damage immediately and 1 acid damage at the end of its 
next two turns. 




This spell’s base damage increases by 1d8 when you reach Sth 




level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8). The extra 
damage increases by 1 point when you reach Sth level (2 per 
turn), 11th level (3 per turn), and 17th level (4 per turn). 




SLIMY GRASP 




Ist-level conjuration 




Casting Time: | action 


Range: Touch 


Components: V, S 


Duration: Instantaneous 


You reach out to grasp a target within range. Make a 
melee spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target 
takes 2d6 acid damage, and it is restrained until the end 
of its next turn. 




At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 
for each slot level above 1st. 




SNAKE CHARM 




Ist-level enchantment 




Casting Time: | action 


Range: 60 feet 


Components: V, S 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 




By swaying your holy symbol and your whole body, 
you can create a hypnotic effect that charms snakes. All 
snakes within range must make a successful Wisdom 
saving throw or become charmed for the duration. While 
charmed, the snakes are incapacitated and have a speed 
of 0. If the snakes were aggressive (ie., attacking) when 
this spell is cast, or they are giant varieties of snakes, their 
saving throw is made at advantage. 




STRIKING 




3rd-level transmutation 




Casting Time: 1 action 


Range: Touch 


Components: V, S 


Duration: 1 minute 


You touch a magical or nonmagical weapon. On a hit 
using that weapon, the wielder does an additional 1d8 
force damage. If the weapon was nonmagical, it is now 
considered magical, although it does not gain any bonuses 
to hit or to damage. 




At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 
for each slot level above 3rd. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City ; 




TENTACLE PULL 




Transmutation cantrip 




Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 30 feet 




Components: V, S, M (a bit of dried flesh from a creature 
with tentacles) 




Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 




You create an incorporeal tentacle that lashes out at your 
command toward a creature in range. Make a melee spell 
attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature 
is restrained (escape DC is your spell save DC). In the 
following round on your turn, you can use a bonus action 
to pull the restrained target 10 feet closer. 




TRANSMUTE ROCK 




5th-level transmutation 




Casting Time: 1 action 


Range: 120 feet 


Components: V, S, M (clay and water) 
Duration: Until dispelled 




You choose an area of stone or mud that you can see that 
fits within a 40-foot cube and that is within range, and 
choose one of the following effects. 




Transmute Rock to Mud: Nonmagical rock of any sort 
in the area becomes an equal volume of thick and flowing 
mud that remains for the spell’s duration. 




If you cast the spell on an area of ground, it becomes 
muddy enough that creatures can sink into it. Each foot 
that a creature moves through the mud costs 4 feet of 
movement, and any creature on the ground when you 
cast the spell must make a Strength saving throw. A 
creature must also make this save the first time it enters 
the area on a turn or ends its turn there. On a failed save, 
a creature sinks into the mud and is restrained, though it 
can use an action to end the restrained condition on itself 




by pulling itself free of the mud. 




If you cast the spell on aceiling, the mud falls. Any creature 
under the mud when it falls must make a Dexterity saving 
throw. A creature takes 4d8 bludgeoning damage on a 
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 




Transmute Mud to Rock: Nonmagical mud or quicksand 
in the area no more than 10 feet deep transforms into 
soft stone for the spell’s duration. Any creature in the 
mud when it transforms must make a Dexterity saving 
throw. On a successful save, a creature is shunted safely 
to the surface in an unoccupied space. On a failed save, 
a creature becomes restrained by the rock. A restrained 
creature, or another creature within reach, can use an 
action to try to break the rock by succeeding on a DC 20 
Strength check or by dealing damage to it. The rock has 
AC 15 and 25 hit points, and it is immune to poison and 
psychic damage. 




VENTRILOQUISM 




Illusion cantrip 




Casting Time: 1 action 


Range: 120 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a small cone of parchment) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 




This spell allows you to make it sound as if your voice 
seems to originate from another location, such as another 
creature, a statue, or behind a door. The effect must occur 
within range, and you can mimic up to four additional 
voices or sounds, although not simultaneously. You are 
limited to the languages you speak and other simple 
sounds that can be reproduced such as screams, banging 
on wooden objects, or even footsteps. A creature hearing 
the sound can take an action to focus on it, and make a 
successful Wisdom saving throw to discover the ruse. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




APPENDIX B 
New Monsters 




ALCHEMOST 


Large ooze, unaligned 


AC: 7 


Hit Points: 60 (8d10 + 16) 


Speed: 20 ft., climb 10 ft., swim 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
11.40) 5:-G3). 142) 1:5) 6:62) (5) 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 




exhaustion, frightened, prone 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 
Languages: - 
Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Alchemical Discharge: Each time the alchemost is struck 
by a weapon and takes damage, it discharges a random 
alchemical effect. Roll 1d6 and apply the following 
effects, but only one effect per turn can be discharged: 




1. Acid Splash in a 20-foot cone. Each target 
in the area must make a DC 10 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) acid damage 
on a failed save, or half as much damage 


on a successful one. 




2. Alchemical Fire Blast in a 10- 
foot radius. Each target in the area 
takes 7 (2d6) fire damage, and at 
the start of each of its turns takes 
another 3 (1d6) fire damage from 
the sticky flammable goo. A creature 
can spend an action to make a DC 
10 Dexterity check, putting out the 
flames on itself or another creature 
within reach on a success. 


3. Billowing Smoke in a 20-foot 
radius. The alchemost is considered 


to be heavily obscured for its next 3 
turns, unless this smoke is dissipated 
sooner via heavy wind. 




omer Ree RS IT PSE EDN PT SH 




esses sme me NS ER AS STE PE SHELL 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




4. Alchemical Flash in a 60-foot radius. Each creature in 
the area that can see must make a DC 10 Constitution 
saving throw or become blinded until the end of its next 
turn. 


5. Poisonous Cloud in a 20-foot radius. Each creature in 
the area must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, 
taking 14 (4d6) poison damage and becoming poisoned 
for 1 hour on a failed save. On a successful save, the 
creature takes half as much damage and is not poisoned. 




6. Thunderblast in a 20-foot radius. Each creature in 
the area must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, 
taking 9 (2d8) thunder damage and becoming deafened 
until the end of its next turn on a failed save. On a 
successful save, the creature takes half as much damage 
and is deafened as above. 


Amorphous: The alchemost can move through a space as 
narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. 


False Appearance: While the alchemost remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a pool of 


alchemical waste. 




ACTIONS 




Pseudopod: Melee Weapon 
Attack: +2 to hit, reach 
10 ft., one target. Hit: 
7 (2d6)  bludgeoning 
damage plus 3 (1d6) acid 




damage. 




This pool of cloudy 


viscid water 
has colorful oily 
swirls throughout. 
Its rippling 
surface is mesmerizing. 
=> It extends a club-like 
<< - pseudopod, dripping with 




caustic ichor. 




rainbow 




BONE GOLEM 
Medium construct, unaligned 
AC: 17 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 39 (7d8 + 7) 
Speed: 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
P42) LOGO) TG Wei5)> -1OGOy: + TS) 




Damage Resistances: piercing, slashing 
Damage Immunities: cold, fire, lightning, poison, psychic 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, f 
exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned i 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft. darkvision 60 ft., passive 
Perception 10 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 2 (540 XP) 




Immutable Form: The golem is immune to any 
spell or effect that would alter its form. 




Magic Resistance: The golem has advantage . 
on saving throws against spells and other 
magical effects. 




Magic Weapons: The golem’s weapon attacks 
are magical. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The golem makes four attacks 
if wielding weapons one-handed, or two 




attacks if wielding weapons two-handed. | 
ath 
Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to eS 
' CEN 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) ix 
nn ta 




slashing damage, or 7 (1d 10 + 2) slashing 
damage if used with two hands. 




Cobbled together with ill-fitting bones of 
various sizes and shapes, this bone-like 
humanoid moves with swift grace that 
belies its bony structure. It sports four 
mismatched arms, each wielding a 
battered longsword. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




EL RR LA SII SRR WIRED SA TO PIRES GE NP SN BARE DMN ST I TANS NUON TES RAL RD SEAL NH 




aA SE LRAT SBE 




CAECILIA WORM 
Huge beast, unaligned 


AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 92 (8d12 + 40) 
Speed: 30 ft., burrow 10 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
19 (+4) 12 (+1) 20(+5) 3(-4) 1060) 4 (-3) 




Saving Throws: Con +7 


Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: - 


Challenge: 3 (700 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. If the target 
is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this 




grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the worm can’t 
bite another target. 




Swallow: The worm makes one bite attack against a 
Medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack 
hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. 
While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it 
has total cover against attacks and other effects outside 
the worm, and it takes 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of 
each of the worm’s turns. 




If the worm takes 15 damage or more on a single turn 
from a creature inside it, the worm must succeed on a 
DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn 
or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone 
in a space within 5 feet of the worm. If the worm dies, 
a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and 
can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, 
exiting prone. 




A 30-foot-long gray worm, slick with a slime-covered body, 
bursts free from the ground. It lacks eyes, but its circular maw 
homes in on nearby prey regardless as its muscular serpentine 
form lashes about. 




~ ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REincaRnATED e “THE Lost city 




SSL etn 8 RE SN ESA ad EE SF ESE TTA AR IA EE EEE PMMA SESS FSO AS PARES NM So IF SS TES RT 




CARYATID COLUMN 




Medium construct, unaligned 
AC: 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 22 (4d8 + 4) 
Speed: 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
16 (+3) 12 (41) 13 (+1) 3(¢-4) 11640) 8 (-1) 




Damage Resistances: bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks 


Damage Immunities: poison, psychic 


Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 


Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 


Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




False Appearance: While the caryatid column remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from an inanimate 
statue. 




Innate Resistance: The caryatid column makes all saving 
throws at advantage. 




Stony Body: Any manufactured weapon that hits the 
caryatid column has a base 25% chance of breaking, 
rendering it useless. For every “plus” of a magic weapon, 
this chance is reduced by 5%. Therefore, a +4 longsword 
would only have a 5% chance of breaking on each hit. 




ACTIONS 




Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 
+ 3) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




The stony column transforms into a fleshy female humanoid 
with fair, porcelain-like skin. With surprising agility, the 
feminine form advances, brandishing a previously hidden 
slim sword. Although its large eyes are emotionless, grim 
determination is etched on her smooth facial features. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED e THE LOST City 




SS SS SASS TT test UH 




AS ES TL ET RAS 




Se) 




CORRUPTURE 


Large ooze, unaligned 


AC: 6 


Hit Points: 85 (9d10 + 36) 


Speed: 20 ft. climb 20 ft. swim 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
16 (+3) 3(-4) 18(+4) 1(-5) 6(-2)  1(-5) 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 




exhaustion, frightened, prone 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP) 




Acid Sheath: The corrupture’s form is sheathed in 
corrosive acid. Ifa creature successfully touches, grapples, 
or attacks a corrupture with a natural weapon, the creature 




takes 7 (2d6) acid damage. 




Amorphous: The corrupture can move through a space 
as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. 




Amphibious: The corrupture can breathe air and water. 




Spider Climb: The corrupture can climb difficult 
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without 
needing to make an ability check. 




ACTIONS 




Pseudopod: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 
(2d6) acid damage. 




Acid Burst (Recharge 6): The corrupture releases a burst 
of acid from its body in a 20-foot cloud. Each target in 
the area of effect must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save the target takes 21 (6d6) acid 
damage immediately and 7 (2d6) acid damage at the end 
of its next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half 
as much damage immediately and no damage thereafter. 




This hideous mass of flesh and slime cascades down the 
corridor with a sickening popping of pustules and warts, 
excreting foul ichor. Its nauseating yellow-green form 




undulates as it extends a probing pseudopod. 




=o SS cURL TR Pun noes CERES WRT 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SS RT ST SSS TL SPT EE 




7 sie ena TPT MI 




ABKm. 2019 os 




"HX 
T= 2? LDP TIAA 




Pe é 
if hy y 
W 




Leese i Ce a sr ed 




DARKLING 
Small fey, chaotic neutral 




DARKLING ELDER 
Medium fey, chaotic neutral 




AC: 14 (leather armor) 
Hit Points: 13 (3d6 + 3) 




AC: 15 (studded leather armor) 
Hit Points: 27 (5d8 + 5) 




Speed: 30 ft. Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
9(-1) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 10 (+0) 12 (+1) 10 (+0) 13 (+1) 17 (43) 12 (41) 10 (+0) 14(42) 13 (+1) 




Skills: Acrobatics +5, Deception +2, Perception +5, 
Stealth +7 




Senses: blindsight 30 ft. darkvision 120 ft. passive 
Perception 15 




Languages: Elvish, Sylvan 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Death Flash: When the darkling dies, nonmagical light 
flashes out in a 10-foot radius as its body and possessions, 
other than metal or magic objects, burn to ash. Any 
creature in that area and able to see the bright light must 
succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be 
blinded until the end of the creature’s next turn. 




Light Sensitivity: While in bright light, the darkling 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Dagger: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft., or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
piercing damage. If the darkling has advantage on the 
attack roll, the attack deals an additional 7 (2d6) piercing 
damage. 


A diminutive humanoid clad in dark wrappings bears elven 
features upon its twisted visage. In one hand is a wicked 
dagger, ready to strike true. 




Skills: Acrobatics +5, Deception +3, Perception +6, 
Stealth +7 


Senses: blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 16 




Languages: Elvish, Sylvan 
Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Death Burn: When the darkling elder dies, magical light 
flashes out in a 10-foot radius as its body and possessions, 
other than metal or magic objects, burn to ash. Any 
creature in that area must make a DC 11 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 7 (2d6) 
radiant damage and, if the creature can see the light, is 
blinded until the end of its next turn. If the saving throw is 
successful, the creature takes half damage and isn’t blinded. 




ACTIONS 
Multiattack: The darkling elder makes two melee attacks. 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. If the 
darkling elder has advantage on the attack roll, the attack 
deals an additional 10 (3d6) piercing damage. 




Darkness (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest): The 
darkling elder casts darkness without any components. 
Wisdom is its spellcasting ability. 




Tall and lanky, this elf-like humanoid is clad in black 
wrappings. It holds a smooth bladed shortsword under the 
folds of the cloak. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




DARKLING MASTER Necrotic Darkness (Recharges after a Short or Long 
Medium fey, chaotic neutral Rest): The darkling master casts darkness without any 




Gal 7 (nicied lead ieranmnan Aloneor pnnenzon) components. Wisdom is its spellcasting ability. If a living 




Hit Points: 45 (7d8 + 14) 
Speed: 30 ft. 




creature starts its turn inside this darkness, it takes 7 
(2d6) necrotic damage. 




Tall and lanky, this elf-like humanoid is clad in a voluminous 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA midnight cloak. In one hand is a thin blade while the other 
14 (+2) 18 (+4) 15 (+2) 14 (+2) 10 (40) 14 (+2) holds a black clay orb the size of a grapefruit. 




Skills: Acrobatics +6, Deception +4, Perception +4, 
Stealth +8 




Senses: blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 14 




Languages: Elvish, Sylvan 
Challenge: 3 (700 XP) 




Special Equipment: The darkling master wears a black 
cloak of protection and carries a potion of superior healing 
and four alchemical bombs. He wields a drow-made 
adamantine +/ rapier held in a scabbard made from umber 




hulk hide and set with sapphires (worth 650 gp). 




Death Burst: When the darkling master dies, magical 
light flashes out from it in a 15-foot radius as its body and 
possessions, other than metal or magic objects, burn to ash. 
Any creature in thatarea must makea DC 12 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 14 (4d6) 
radiant damage, is stunned, and, if the creature can see the 
light, is blinded until the end of its next turn. If the saving 
throw is successful, the creature takes half damage and isn't 
stunned or blinded. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The darkling master makes two melee 
attacks. 




+1 Rapier: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage. If the 
darkling elder has advantage on the attack roll, the attack 
deals an extra 14 (4d6) piercing damage. 




Alchemical Bomb: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
range 15/30 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d8) fire damage 
plus 9 (2d8) acid damage immediately, and 9 (2d8) acid 
damage at the start of each of the darkling master’s next 
2 turns unless washed off with plenty of water. All other 
targets within 5 feet of the explosion take 4 (1d8) acid 




damage from splash effects. 




PS A ean RSS aR 




Weare 




— 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REiMCARMATED e THE Lost City XX 




SE PET SSAA LEY SOE EN LE PELTED LARC NIE DAT EOE EE A RE ALD LEE NL EER OE INTE IMEI 




DELVER 




Huge aberration, neutral 




A\\ 




YU HH 
«( Ni | 




\ 
AC; 20 (natural armor) ‘4 \it, 
Hit Points: 184 (16d12 + 80) Hh 




Speed: 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA / A ANGUS 
25:(47)) 1040)? 215) 12, el): 14 G2). 1140) Wy 
Damage Immunities: acid 
Senses: blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 12 
Languages: Terran, Undercommon 




Challenge: 8 (3,900 XP) 




Corrosive Skin: The delver produces an acidic mucus 
along its body. A creature that touches the delver takes 
7 (2d6) acid damage. This acid is particularly suitable 
for dissolving stone and metal; an object made of those 
materials (including weapons and armor) that touches 




the delver takes 14 (4d6) acid damage. 




Tunneler: The delver can burrow through solid rock 




at half its burrow speed and leaves a 10-foot-diameter 
tunnel in its wake. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The delver makes two slam attacks. 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 10 
(3d6) acid damage. 




A 15-foot-long, teardrop-shaped aberration pulls itself along 
with a pair of massive paddle-like appendages. Its stony hide 
glistens with moisture, and although it appears to lack a 
mouth, its single black eye displays a glint of intelligence. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




DEVIL SWINE 




Medium humanoid (human, shapechanger ), chaotic evil 




AC: 9 in humanoid form, 12 (natural armor) in giant 
boar form 




Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) 
Speed: 30 ft. (40 ft. in giant boar form) 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
16 (+3) 8(-1) 17(4+3) 14(+2) 12 (+1) 7 (-2) 




Skills: Athletics +5, Perception +3 




Damage Immunities: bludgeoning, piercing, and 




slashing damage from nonmagical attacks not made with 
silvered weapons 




Senses: passive Perception 13 
Languages: Common 




Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP) 




Shapechanger: The devil swine can use its action to 
polymorph into a giant boar, or back into its true form, 
which is humanoid. Its statistics, other than AC, are 
the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or 
carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it 




dies. \: ta 
Charge (Giant Boar Form Only): If the devil swine Wy : 
moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then KAY 
hits it with a tusk attack on the same turn, the target f 
takes an extra 7 (2dG) slashing damage. If the target is 
a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving 
throw or be knocked prone. 


Innate Spellcasting (3/Day): The devil swine can innately 
cast charm person, requiring no material components. Its 
innate spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 12). 




ACTIONS 




Tusk (Giant Boar Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: +5 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing 
damage. 


Shortsword (Humanoid Form Only): Melee Weapon 
Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) 
piercing damage. 


This flabby, rotund human fills out his robes. Clean-shaven 
and bald, he has saggy jowls, a sloped forehead, and piercing 




eyes. His smooth skin is marred with warts and oozing sores. 




PSTD NT 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST CiTy } ‘ 




AE ATT ETI 




DUST DIGGER 




Large beast, unaligned 




ACTIONS 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 30 (4d10 + 8) 
Speed: 20 ft., burrow 20 ft. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is a Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape 




DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 




16 (+3) 12 (+1) 15 (+2) 2(-4) 10(+0) 5 (-3) 




Skills: Stealth +3 


Senses: tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 


Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




the dust digger has advantage on all bite attacks against 
the grappled target, and the dust digger can’t grapple 




another target. 


This drab-colored starfish-like creature has five bony barbed 
legs to facilitate burrowing. Its circular mouth surrounded 
by swaying cilia is located on the dorsal surface of its body. 




Sand Camouflage: The dust digger has advantage on all 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks made when hidden under at 




least 1 foot of sand. 




at 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




ese 




OO SRB 




FOX 
Small beast, unaligned 
AC; 12 
Hit Points: 3 (1d6) 
Speed: 40 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
7 (-2) 15 (+2) 10(+0) 2(-4) 12(+1) 5 (-3) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 11 
Languages: - 
Challenge: 0 (10 XP) 




Keen Smell: The fox has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: | piercing damage. 


This diminutive dog-like mammal has bright red fur with 
white and black highlights and a bushy tail. 




3 nF SS eS 




SEA STR ER I 2 ST A A GS 




AGATA EERE PT EEE OS SS EYP SE SMT SL RET LAI 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT ANT 


Small beast, unaligned 


AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 10 (3d6) 
Speed: 40 ft., climb 20 ft. 




STR 
8 (-1) 




DEX CON 
14 (+2) 11 (+0) 




INT WIS 
3 (-4) 10 (+0) 




CHA 
43) 




Senses: passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 
Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




A giant ant is about 3 feet long with three distinct body 
segments. Its carapace is black or deep brown, and it sports 




sharp mandibles. 




: a 
, = 
ae - Ve 
hs Sine 




<n p< OE TO 
SEY 




eS aS SS ae a 
237 




mT LIT EE 




GIANT ANT LION 


Large beast, unaligned 


AC; 13 (natural armor) 


Hit Points: 76 (9d10 + 27) 


Speed: 30 ft., climb 20 ft. 
STR DEX CON 
19 (+4) 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 3 (-4) 




Senses: tremorsense 120 ft., passive Perception 10 




INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 4 (-3) 




Languages: - 
Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target 
is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the 
target is restrained, and the ant lion can’t bite another 
target. 




Sand Trap (1/Day): The ant lion creates a 60-foot- 
diameter sand trap in loose sediment. If a creature enters 
the sand trap, the ant lion can use an action to create a 
funnel of shifting sands. The trap persists for 5 rounds. 
A creature in the 60-foot-diameter funnel must make a 
successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone 
and be pulled 20 feet toward the ant lion. On its turn 
the ant lion can take a bonus action to make a bite attack 
against a prone target in the sand trap. 




Once triggered, it takes the ant lion 3 hours to rebuild its 
sand trap in a suitable location. 




This vermin is about 15 feet long with a drab brown carapace 
and reduced wings. Its abdomen is plump, while its head is 
flat and features sickle-like mandibles. 




GIANT CAVE LOCUST 




Small beast, unaligned 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 13 (3d6 + 3) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
LO): TA GD AC 24s 10-0) 24) 
Skills: Stealth +4 




Damage Immunities: poison 
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




False Appearance: While the cave locust remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a boulder or rocky 
outcropping. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing damage. 


Leap: As an action, the cave locust can jump vertically up 
to 30 feet or horizontally up to 60 feet. There is a 50% 
chance it jumps into another creature’s space, if possible. 
If this occurs, treat it as: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
range GO ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning 
damage. 


Poison Spit (Recharge 6): Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to 
hit, range 10 ft., one target. Hit: The target is covered 
with sticky, smelly poison spittle and gains the poisoned 
condition. This condition lasts for 10 minutes or until 
washed off with a suitable amount of water or another 




fluid. 




REACTIONS 




Shriek: When the cave locust is frightened (such as when 
it takes damage or another creature approaches within 
30 feet of it), it emits a shriek audible out to 150 feet. 
It continues to shriek until the disturbance moves away, 
and for its next 1d4 additional turns after that. 


These monstrous grasshopper-like insects have 3-foot-long 
chitinous bodies with flat black to mottled gray coloration, 
often covered with minute protrusions. They have oversized 
rear legs and bulbous eyes. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT DRACO LIZARD 




Large beast, unaligned 




GIANT DUST DIGGER 
Huge beast, unaligned 




AC; 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 26 (4d10 + 4) 
Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft., fly 30 ft. 




AC: 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 95 (10d12 + 30) 
Speed: 20 ft., burrow 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
15 (+2) 15 (+2) 13 (41) 2(-4) 10(40) 5 (-3) 20 (+5) 12 (+1) 17 (+3) 2(-4)  10(+0) 5 (-3) 
Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Skills: Stealth +3 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage. 




This 6-foot-long lizard has green skin with brown mottled 
splotches. It sports pale green flaps of skin between its legs 
granting it the ability to glide from heights while hunting. 




Senses: tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP) 




Sand Camouflage: The dust digger has advantage on all 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks made when hidden under at 
least 1 foot of sand. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is a Huge or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape 
DC 15). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, 
the dust digger has advantage on all bite attacks against 
the grappled target, and the dust digger can’t grapple 




another target. 




This massive drab-colored starfish-like creature has five 
bony barbed legs to facilitate burrowing. From leg tip to leg 
tip, the creature extends nearly 15 feet. Its circular mouth 
surrounded by swaying cilia is located on the dorsal surface 




of its body. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT FERRET 




Small beast, unaligned 




GIANT GAR 
Huge beast, unaligned 




AC: 13 
Hit Points: 11 (2d6 + 4) 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 85 (9d12 + 27) 




Speed: 50 ft., climb 20 ft. Speed: swim 40 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
GGL) 173) JAG) 264) 10 G0) 5-3) 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 2(-4) 10 (+0) 5 (-3) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. 




This 3-foot-long rodent-like creature has short brown and/ 
or black fur, often with white undertones. It typically sports 
a black “mask” of fur around its eyes giving it a mischievous 
countenance. Its body is slender and wiry, and it has a whip- 




like, furry tail. 




ORIGINAL 




ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Skills: Stealth +7 
Senses: passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP) 




Water Breathing: The gar can breathe only underwater. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 22 (Sd6 + 5) piercing damage. If the target 
is Medium size or smaller, it must succeed on a DC 12 
Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed by the gar. If 
the target does not have a swim speed, this saving throw 
has disadvantage. A swallowed creature is blinded and 
restrained, it has total cover against attacks from outside 
the gar, and takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of 
each of the gar’s turns. The garcan have only one Medium 
target or two Small or smaller targets swallowed at a time. 




If the gar takes 10 damage or more in a single turn 
from a creature inside it, the gar must succeed a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw at the end of its turn or 
regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a 
space within 5 feet of the gar. If the gar dies, a swallowed 
creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from 
the corpse by using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. 




This enormous fish is fusiform in shape with light green 
scales and heavy dark bars on its flanks. Its triangular head 
is massive, with alligator-like extendable jaws lined with 




dagger-like piercing teeth. 




GIANT GILA MONSTER 




Large beast, unaligned 




GIANT OIL BEETLE 




Small beast, unaligned 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 60 (8d10 + 24) 
Speed: 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON _ INT 
18 (+4) 11 (+0) 16 (+3) 2 (-4) 




WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 5 (-3) 




Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) 




poison damage. 




Poison Breath (Recharge 6): The Gila monster exhales 
poison gas in a 10-foot cone. Each creature in that area 
must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 
(3d6) poison damage and gaining the poisoned condition 
for 1 hour on failed save, or half as much damage and no 
poisoned condition on a successful one. 




This 12-foot-long lizard has drab gray-brown skin with an 
orange mottled pattern of blotches and stripes. 


Its head is thick and flat, and its body is 
bulky with stout powerful legs. 




INNS 




= 




) 




SSy 




Se 
SSE 
Ses 


SS: 
se" 




SS 
Se 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




IRAQI AE FES ETS SL AIS FM TT. AL EY RT 




AC: 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 16 (3d6 + 6) 




Speed: 30 ft., fly 20 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
14-2) 12-GAy 152)! 234) 90140) 4-3) 




Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




Squirt Oil (Recharge 6): Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to 
hit, range 10 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) acid damage. 
The oil causes the target’s skin to blister with painful sores. 
Until this damage is cured, the target has disadvantage on 
all Dexterity ability checks, Dexterity saving throws, and 
melee attack rolls. 




This giant beetle is about 3 feet long with a shiny black 
carapace and a bulbous abdomen. It has a small head but is 
armed with sharp mandibles. 




LLL ATE TT A) SES LTT SAE HE IC 




GIANT QUEEN ANT 
Large beast, unaligned 




GIANT SAND SPIDER 




Large beast, unaligned 




AC: 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 85 (10d10 + 30) 
Speed: 5 ft. 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 32 (5d10 + 5) 
Speed: 30 ft., burrow 10 ft., climb 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA STR DEX CON INT WIS’~ CHA 
14 (+2) 7(-2) 16(+3) 3(-4) 10(+0) 4 (-3) 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 3(-4) 11(40) 4 (-3) 
Senses: passive Perception 10 Skills: Stealth +7 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




This bloated giant insect is about 10 feet long with reduced 
legs and a head that is disproportionally small when 
compared to the bulk of its thorax and abdomen. 




GIANT QUIPPER 
Small beast, unaligned 


AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 18 (4d6 + 4) 
Speed: 0 ft., swim 30 ft. 




STR 
8 (-1) 




Senses: passive Perception 10 




INT WIS 
2 (-4) 10 (+0) 




CHA 
5 (-3) 




DEX CON 
17 (+3) 12 (41) 




Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 


Blood Frenzy: The quipper has advantage on melee 
attack rolls against any creature that doesn’t have all its 
hit points. 




Water Breathing: The quipper can breathe only underwater. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage. 




This 3-foot-long fish has deep blue-green sides but a blood-red 
belly, Its oversized jaw is filled with protruding triangular teeth. 




x) 




Senses: blindsight 10 ft, darkvision 60 ft., passive 
Perception 10 




Languages: - 
Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Sand Walker: The spider ignores movement restrictions 
caused by sand or sandy surfaces. 




Surprise Attack: If the spider surprises a creature and 
hits with an attack during the first round of combat, the 
target takes an additional 9 (2d8) damage from the attack. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 
13 (3d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
on a successful one. If the poison reduces the target to 0 
hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour. 
Even after regaining hit points, the target is paralyzed 
while it retains the poisoned condition. 


This arachnid is about the size of a horse. It has a light tan 
hairy hide and sports a pair of wicked black mandibles 
dripping with poison. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT SHREW 
Small beast, unaligned 




AC: 14 
Hit Points: 9 (2d6 + 2) 
Speed: 40 ft., burrow 10 ft., climb 20 ft. 


STR DEX CON INT WIS 
8(-1) 18 (+4) 13 (41) 24) 14 (+2) 
Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +6 
Senses: blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 14 




CHA 
o3) 




Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 


Blind Senses: The shrew can’t use its blindsight while 
deafened and unable to smell. 




Improved Initiative: The shrew has advantage on 
initiative rolls. 




Keen Hearing and Smell: The shrew has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. 




This 3-foot-long rodent-like creature has short gray fur. It 
has a pointed pink snout and sharp teeth protruding from 
a small jaw. It seems to lack or have reduced eyes, covered 




mostly with fur. 




GIANT SLUG 


Gargantuan beast, unaligned 


AC; 12 (natural armor) 


Hit Points: 186 (12d20 + 60) 
Speed: 20 ft. 




STR 
20 (+5) 6 (-2) 




DEX CON 
20 (+5) 




INT 
3 (-4) 




Damage Resistances: slashing 




WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 4 (-3) 




Damage Immunities: bludgeoning from nonmagical 
attacks 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 
Challenge: 7 (2,900 XP) 




Rubbery Body: The slug can squeeze through a space 
that is only 5 feet wide. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 




acid damage. 




Spit Acid (Recharge 6): The slug spits acid in a line that 
is 60 feet long and 10 feet wide. Each creature in that 
line must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
39 (6d12) acid damage on a failed save, and half as much 




damage on a successful one. 




A 25-foot-long invertebrate has a mucus-covered rubbery 
body shaded creamy white to deep purple. The eyeless beast 
sports a long pair of twitching black antennae, as its flesh 
undulates while it plods along. 




Pe Rs ll sel 
i he ait Nu i aN 




GIANT SOLDIER ANT 
Small beast, unaligned 




AC: 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 22 (4d6 + 8) 
Speed: 40 ft., climb 20 ft. 




STR 
8 (-1) 




DEX CON INT 
14 (+2) 15 (+2) 3 (-4) 




WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 4 (-3) 
Senses: passive Perception 10 


Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The ant makes two attacks: one with its bite 
and one with its sting. It can’t make both attacks against 
the same target. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage. 




Sting: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 
10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 




The giant soldier ant is about 4 feet long with three distinct 
body segments. Its carapace is black and adorned with hooks 
and spines in select locations. It has oversized mandibles and 
a wicked tail stinger. 




GIANT SPITTING SPIDER 




Large beast, unaligned 
AC; 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 37 (5d10 + 10) 
Speed: 40 ft., climb 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT 


14 (+2) 18 (+4) 14(+2) 3 (-4) 
Skills: Stealth +8 


Senses: blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 60 ft. passive 




WIS 
11 (+0) 




CHA 
4 (-3) 




Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Pounce: If the spider moves at least 20 feet straight 
toward a creature, it can make a second bite attack as a 
bonus action. 




Spider Climb: The spider can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 




Web Sense: While in contact with a web, the spider 
knows the exact location of any other creature in contact 
with the same web. 




Web Walker: The spider ignores movement restrictions 




caused by webbing. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 
10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. If the poison damage reduces 
the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable, but poisoned 
for 1 hour. 




Poison Spit (Recharge 4-6): Ranged Weapon Attack: 
+6 to hit, range 15/30 ft., one creature. Hit: The target 
makes a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 
(4d6) poison damage and becoming poisoned for 1 hour 
on a failed save, or half as much damage and no poisoned 
condition on a successful save. 




Web (Recharge 5-6): Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to 
hit, range 30/60 ft., one Huge or smaller creature. Hit: 
The creature is restrained by webbing. As an action, the 
restrained creature can make a DC 12 Strength check, 
escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect 
ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 
10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, resistance 
to bludgeoning damage, and immunity to poison and 
psychic damage. 




This enormous brown spider has eight spindly legs and 
a smallish abdomen. Yellow viscid venom drips from its 
mandibles as it anticipates a feast. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




GIANT TIGER BEETLE 
Medium beast, unaligned 


AC; 14 (natural armor) 


Hit Points: 26 (4d8 + 8) 
Speed: 50 ft., fly 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
14 (42) 14 (+2) 15 (+2) 3(-4) 10(+0) 4 (-3) 
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 




Languages: - 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




This giant beetle is 4 to 5 feet long with distinct orange 
stripes on its otherwise black carapace. It has large bulging 




eyes, walks on slender yet powerful legs, and brandishes a 
curved pair of wicked mandibles. 




GIANT TROLL 




Huge giant, chaotic evil 




AC: 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 115 (10d12 + 50) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
20:(45): 10. (40) 2045). 7:G@2)> 10.0) 7(-2) 




Skills: Perception +3 


Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages: Giant 


Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP) 




Keen Smell: The troll has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell. 




Regeneration: The troll regains 5 hit points at the start 
of its turn. If the troll takes acid or fire damage, this trait 
doesn’t function at the start of the troll’s next turn. The 
troll only dies if it starts its turn with 0 hit points, suffered 
at least 10 acid and/or fire damage, and doesn't regenerate. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The troll makes two claw attacks. 


Spiked Greatclub: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 
10 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage 
plus 3 (1d6) piercing damage. 


Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage. 


This humanoid stands 12 feet tall, and has sickly green 
wart-encrusted skin and long gangly arms. It hefts a massive 
wooden club bristling with iron spikes. 




EB ea eg a Ne i 2 aR em PPAR OHS EES ——— LTT, gf % 
oRiGinaL ADNEDEURES REI FincaRnateD — e EME Lost city 4 248) 
PLE RELL TI TESTA TELL SELLE ESE OID OLE LOL TE SEE OO TET AR OTE PS STEIN eu oi Nea RN i > 




GIANT TUATARA LIZARD 




Lanse beaskteaBoned 


AC; 13 (natural armor) 


Hit Points: 45 (6d10 + 12) 


Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft., fly 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT 
16 (+3) 15 (+2) 15 (+2) 2 (-4) 




WIS 
10 (+0) 




CHA 
O53) 
Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The lizard makes two attacks: one with its 
bite and one with its claw. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage. 




Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. 




This 8-foot-long lizard has pebble-colored olive skin with 
white spikes along its back. A pale white membrane covers 
its oversized eyes. 




GOBLIN QUEEN 
Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil 




AC: 16 (chain mail) 
Hit Points: 34 (8d6 + 6) 




Speed: 30 ft. 


STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
13:(41), 1462) 1G) 12-41). 8 1) 861) 
Skills: Stealth +6 




Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9 
Languages: Common, Goblin 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Special Equipment: The goblin queen wields a +/ battleaxe. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The goblin queen makes two attacks with 
its +1 battleaxe. 




+1 Battleaxe: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) slashing damage, or 7 (1d10 
+ 2) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




Handaxe: Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 20/60 
ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) slashing damage. 




This bloated goblinoid has long black hair pulled into a 
topknot affixed with bones. Her flabby flesh overflows the 




Zee \ 




$ 4 
\ Ws 
<3) Ff ee 
\ Uy} Ca 


y y) ley \ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTY 




GOBLIN SNAKE SHAMAN 
Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil 




GOBLIN WARRIOR 
Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil 




AC: 14 (studded leather armor) 
Hit Points: 18 (4d6 + 4) 
Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS 
10°G0O) 14:42) 12-1) 12-1): 14142) 
Skills: Religion +5 




Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 




CHA 
8 (-1) 




Languages: Common, Goblin 




Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Special Equipment: The goblin snake shaman possesses a 




staff of the adder. 




Spellcasting: The goblin snake shaman is a 4th-level 
spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 
12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following druid 
spells prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




¢ Cantrips (at will): poison spray, shillelagh, thorn whip 




* 1st level (4 slots): animal friendship, snake charm, * speak 
with animals 




¢ 2nd level (3 slots): animal messenger, beast sense, 
protection from poison 




Venomous Resistance: The goblin snake shaman has 
advantage on saving throws against poison. 




ACTIONS 




Staff of the Adder: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage. 




This thin wily goblinoid has a steeply sloped forehead and 
scraggly black hair. It wears a leather jerkin studded with 
iron, and its exposed arms are scarred by old bite wounds. 
It leans on a gnarled oaken staff with a carved snake head. 




AC: 16 (scale mail) 
Hit Points: 13 (3d6 + 3) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
12 (+1) 14 (42) 12(+1) 10 (+0) 8(-1) 8(-1) 




Skills: Acrobatics +6 
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9 




Languages: Common, Goblin 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Acrobatic Climb: The goblin warrior can nimbly climb 
rocky surfaces. It can make a Dexterity (Acrobatics) skill 
check to climb. 




ACTIONS 




Scimitar: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage. 




Javelin: Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 30/120 
ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. 




This small goblinoid is stocky like a dwarf. It wears dirty 
scale mail, and in addition to its curved blade, it carries a 
quiver of javelins slung over its back. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




HOBGOBLIN SPORE SERVANT 
Medium plant, unaligned 




AC: 16 (chain mail) 
Hit Points: 11 (2d8 + 2) 




Speed: 20 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
13 (+1) 12 (+1) 12(+1) 2(-4) 6(-2)  1(-5) 




IMMATURE XORN 




Small elemental, neutral 


AC; 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 32 (5d6 + 15) 
Speed: 20 ft., burrow 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
13 (41) 10(+0) 17 (+3) 9(-1) 10(+0) 10 (+0) 




Senses: blindsight 30 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 


Damage Immunities: poison 


Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, frightened, 
paralyzed 


Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage. 




A once proud goblinoid is now a shell of its former self. Its 
pallid orange flesh is coated with fungus poking through the 
links of shoddy chain mail in random places. Its eyes are 
unblinking and opaque with no hint of life. 




Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +2 


Damage Resistances: piercing and slashing weapons 
from nonmagical attacks that aren’t adamantine 


Senses: darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 30 ft., passive 
Perception 14 


Languages: Terran 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Earth Glide: The xorn can burrow through nonmagical, 
unworked earth and stone. While doing so, the xorn 
doesn’t disturb the material it moves through. 




Stone Camouflage: The xorn has advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks to hide in rocky terrain. 




Treasure Sense: The xorn can pinpoint, by scent, the 
location of precious metals and stones, such as coins and 
gems, within 30 feet of it. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The xorn makes three claw attacks and one 
bite attack. 




Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) slashing damage. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (3d4 + 1) piercing damage. 




This 4-foot-tall rocky creature has three stubby legs. Each of 
its three spiked arms ends in three wicked talons. Its yellow 
eye is situated under a massive maw lined with teeth located 




on top of its form. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




KILLER BEE 




Tiny beast, unaligned 




KILLER BEE QUEEN 




Small beast, unaligned 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 5 (2d4) 
Speed: 10 ft., fly 60 ft. 




AC: 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 18 (4d6 + 4) 
Speed: 10 ft., fly 40 ft. 




CHA 
5 (-3) 




STR DEX CON 
10 (40) 17 (+3) 11 (+0) 




INT WIS 
2 (-4) 10 (+0) 




INT WIS CHA 
2 (-4) 10(+0) 5 (-3) 




STR DEX CON 
10 (40) 15 (+2) 12 (+1) 




Senses: passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Sting: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. one 
creature. Hit: 1 piercing damage, and the target must 
make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) 
poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage 
on a successful one. On a failed save, the target gains the 
poisoned condition for 1 hour. After a successful sting, 
the bee is reduced to 0 hit points on its following turn. 




A droning buzz betrays the appearance of a swarm of 1-foot- 
long flying insects. Each has coarse hair in alternating black 
and yellow bands and is aloft via a pair of delicate gossamer 
WINgs. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST Cit 




Senses: passive Perception 10 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Sting: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. one 
creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 
7 (2d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. On a failed save, the target 
gains the poisoned condition for 1 hour. The killer bee 
queen can sting repeatedly without dying. 




This droning insect is larger and plumper than the rest of the 
swarm, yet it sports the same coarse hair in alternating black 
and yellow bands, and is aloft via a pair of larger, somewhat 
stouter gossamer wings. 




TSC A EAE A MER 




NRRL 




y 
yd 
sme 




ee, 




i f 
249K 




ee 




LIVING IRON STATUE 




Medium construct, unaligned 
AC; 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 22 (5d8) 
Speed: 10 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS' CHA 
15 (+2) 10 (+0) 11 (+0) 1(-5) 5(-3) 1 (-5) 




Damage Resistances: piercing, slashing 




Damage Immunities: poison, psychic 


Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 


Senses: blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 7 




Languages: - 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




False Appearance: While the statue remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from an inanimate 
statue. 




Magnetic Body: If the statue is struck by a nonmagical 
metal weapon, the wielder must make a successful DC i Wy 
12 Dexterity saving throw, or the weapon becomes 
stuck on the statue’s body. A stuck weapon can be 
removed by using an action to make a successful 
DC 15 Strength check. If not removed, the metallic 
weapon is slowly absorbed into the statue’s body over 




3 days 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The statue makes two longsword 
attacks, 


Iron Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) slashing 
damage, or 7 (1d10 + 2) slashing damage if used with 
two hands. 
This smooth metal statue depicts a typical human 
guardsman. Ornate wrought-iron plate armor, a helm 
with a visor, and a longsword complete the design. Its 




eyes flicker with pale yellow radiance as it advances. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




LYLE PLN TELE LLL LL ELIEIELELLIESLA LE LLL L ELE DEN LE LEE LED LESS ID 




SRL EET RRL OEE SE 8 TE STN NN AOS BSS 




NECROTIC OOZE 
Large ooze, unaligned 


AC: 8 


Hit Points: 37 (5d10 + 10) 
Speed: 20 ft., climb 10 ft. 




STR DEX CON 
14 (+2) 6(-2) 15 (+2) 




INT WIS 
2(-4) 6 (-2) 




CHA 
1 (-5) 
Damage Resistances: acid, necrotic 


Damage Immunities: lightning, slashing 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 
exhaustion, frightened, prone 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Amorphous: The ooze can move through a space as 
narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. 




False Appearance: When the ooze remains motionless, it 
is indistinguishable from wet rock. 




Spider Climb: The ooze can climb 
difficult surfaces, including upside 
down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 




ACTIONS 




Pseudopod: Melee Weapon Attack: 


+4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) necrotic 
damage plus 3 (1d6) acid 




damage. 




This sickly gray blob of ooze undulates 
as it rolls, revealing a collection of 
jagged bones that rupture its 
surface and then are engulfed 
back into the mass. 




OGRE SPORE SERVANT 
Large plant, unaligned 




AC; 11 (hide armor) 
Hit Points: 59 (7d10 + 21) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
19 (+4) 8(-1) 16(+3) 2(-4) 6(-2)  1(-5) 




Senses: blindsight 30 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 
Damage Immunities: poison 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, frightened, 
paralyzed 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage. 




A towering humanoid with drooping 
flesh covered with fungal growth 
lumbers toward you, arms limply 
dangling at its side. Its eyes 
are lifeless and opaque, and 
creeping fungus grows out of its 
nose, mouth and ears in odd tufts. 




— sn — * y x 
> 251% 
ape memocmet meade WY neues 




yy 
WZ, Y 




if 
Vy, 
ll LY, 




Vey Y f y 7 
YY; Yep 
j 4 Yl If ‘ay ty 
Wy) f 
Yi Y = Ne Vy, 
f, i, 




Y/Y wy iy), 
w Ne 
 d 




” 




J , yr 
oY y) yy 




a _———_\. : 
i gues 
iN\\ Pv ag an Wy | 
\\\ \ \\ “ - 
POLYMAR 
Medium monstrosity (shapechanger), neutral 
AC: 14 (natural armor) ACTIONS 




Hit Points: 60 (11d8 + 11) 
Speed: 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
16 (+3) 12 (+1) 12 (+1) 7(-2) 14(42) 13 (+1) 




Multiattack: The polymar makes three slam attacks. 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. 




The tapestry hanging on the wall falls on your ally while she 
was examining the chest. Enveloped by the sheet-like form, 
your ally struggles as the tapestry forms club-like pseudopods 
Languages: - and begins to pummel the trapped target. 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Skills: Deception +3, Insight +4 




Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 




Shapechanger: The polymar can use its action to polymorph 
into any creature or inanimate object that is size Large or 
smaller it has seen, or back into its true (amorphous) form. 
Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. 
Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. 
It reverts to its true form if it dies. This trait is not perfect; a 
creature can discern the deception with a successful DC 12 




Wisdom (Perception) check. 




Ambusher: The polymar has advantage on attack rolls 
against any creature it has surprised. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




ROCK BABOON 
Small beast, unaligned 


AC: 12 


Hit Points: 9 (2d6 + 2) 
Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft. 




STR 
11 (40) 14 (+2) 




CHA 
6 (-2) 




DEX CON 
12 (+1) 




INT WIS 
4(-3) 12 (+1) 




Senses: passive Perception 11 
Languages: - 
Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




Pack Tactics: The baboon has advantage on an attack roll 
against a creature if at least one of the baboon’s allies is 
within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The baboon makes two attacks: one with its 
bite and one with its claws. 


Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage. 


Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d4) slashing damage. 


Rock: Ranged Melee Weapon: +4 to hit, ranged 10/30 ft., 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. 




These gray-furred primates are about 4 feet tall. They have 




black claws and prominent canine teeth. 




ROCK PYTHON 




Large beast, unaligned 




AC: 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 15 (2d10 + 4) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
14 (+2) 14 (42) 14 (+2) 2(-4) 11(40) 3(-4) 




Skills: Perception +2, Stealth +4 


Senses: blindsight 20 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: - 


Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




Stone Camouflage: The python has advantage on 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. 




SSSA NE 




Se 




“oRiGinaL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED | e THE Lost city A 




1 ST AE af EBT TS STAGE AG eS RSS PTT PERT A SR SDT ATES ERATE Wi NTC TIO T 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




Constrict: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage, and 
the target is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple 
ends, the creature is restrained, and the rock python can’t 
constrict another target. 




This 10-foot-long snake has gray-brown skin adorned with 
textured knobby protrusions along its thick body. Its forked 
black tongue flickers from a wide mouth situated on a tri- 
angular head. 




SPITTING COBRA 
Tiny beast, unaligned 




AC: 13 
Hit Points: 3 (1d4 + 1) 
Speed: 30 ft., swim 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT 
2 (-4) 16(4+3) 12(+41) 1 (-5) 




Skills: Perception +2 




CHA 
3 (-4) 




WIS 
10 (+0) 




Senses: blindsight 10 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 1 piercing damage, and the target must make a 
DC 10 Constitution saving throw, taking 3 (1d6) poison 
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a 
successful one. 




Poison Spit (Recharge 6): Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 
to hit, range 5/10 ft., one creature. Hit: The target must 
make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) 
poison damage and becoming blinded for 1 hour on a 
failed save, or half as much damage and no blindness on 
a successful one. 




This 3-foot-long snake is black with yellow striations and 
sports a hooded head, as it arches with a hiss of warning. 




SAS RIN EN Re ECP PEELS aS RNS STATIN 




STUN JELLY 
Large ooze, unaligned 


AC: 6 


Hit Points: 66 (7d10 + 28) 
Speed: 20 ft., climb 10 ft. 




STR 
16 (+3) 




DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
3(-4) 18 (+4) 1(-5) 6 (-2) 1 (-5) 




Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 




exhaustion, frightened, prone 




Senses: blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 




passive Perception 8 
Languages: - 




Challenge: 3 (700 XP) 




Amorphous: The jelly can move through a space as 
narrow as | inch wide without squeezing. 




False Appearance: When the jelly remains motionless, it 
is indistinguishable from wet rock. 




Spider Climb: The jelly can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 




ACTIONS 




Pseudopod: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 3 
(1d6) acid damage. If the target is a creature other than 
an undead, it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution 
saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success. 




Engulf: The jelly moves up to its speed. While doing so, 
it can enter a Large or smaller creatures’ spaces. When- 
ever the jelly enters a creature’s space, the creature must 
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. An incapacitated 
creature automatically fails this save. 




On a successful save, the creature can choose to be 
pushed 5 feet back or to the side of the jelly. A creature 
that chooses not to be pushed suffers the consequences of 
a failed saving throw. 




On a failed save, the jelly enters the creature’s space, and 
the creature is engulfed. If the engulfed creature is not 




se ASE eT ia A Re 




Sn Ra MCU 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




commen ESS EERE RE SAE SEES GS ER A GY ESE IS SU rete 




5 NE ES ee ae ee 




an undead and not already paralyzed, the creature must 
succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be 
paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success. The engulfed creature can’t breathe, is 
restrained, and takes 14 (4d6) acid damage at the start 
of each of the jelly’s turns. When the jelly moves, the en- 
gulfed creature moves with it. 




An engulfed creature that is not paralyzed can try to 
escape by taking an action to make a DC 13 Strength 
check. On a success, the creature escapes and enters a 
space of its choice within 5 feet of the jelly. 




The moist patch of stone suddenly reaches out with a sticky 
pseudopod. Its cold gelatinous grasp causes a burning sensa- 
tion and then a tingling feel as if energy is playing across 
your skin. 




tren ta mS A AT RAE ST 




THOUL 




Medium monstrosity, chaotic evil 




THOUL NECROMAGE 




Medium monstrosity, chaotic evil 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 30 (4d8 + 12) 
Speed: 30 ft. 




AC: 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 52 (7d8 + 21) 
Speed: 30 ft. 




WIS CHA 
11 (+0) 7 (-2) 




STR 
16 (+3) 12 (+1) 16 (+3) 




DEX CON INT 
6 (-2) 




INT WIS CHA 
12 (+1) 7 (-2) 




STR DEX CON 
16 (+3) 12 (+1) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 




Saving Throws: Con +5 


Skills: Perception +2 


Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: Giant, Goblin 


Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Keen Smell: The thoul has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell. 




Regeneration: The thoul regenerates 5 hit points at the 
start of its turn. If the thoul takes acid or fire damage, this 
trait doesn’t function at the start of the thoul’s next turn. 
The thoul dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points 
and doesn’t regenerate. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: A thoul makes two attacks: two with its 
claws or one with a weapon and one with its claws. 




Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is a 
creature other than an elf or undead, it must succeed on 
a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 
1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 




SUCCESS. 




Standing a full 6 and a half feet tall, this burly humanoid 
has pale orange skin and dark gray to black unkempt hair. 
Yellow eyes pierce out beneath a beetling brow, and its wide 
mouth is full of pointy, yellowed teeth. Its limber arms seem 
stretched, and its hands end in wicked black claws. 




Saving Throws: Con +5 


Skills: Perception +3 


Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages: Giant, Goblin 


Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Special Equipment: The thoul necromage carries a +/ 
longsword and a wand of paralysis made from bone. 




Keen Smell: The thoul necromage has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. 




Regeneration: The thoul necromage regains 5 hit points at 
the start ofits turn. If the thoul necromage takes acid or fire 
damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the thoul 
necromage’s next turn. The thoul necromage dies only if it 
starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. 




Spellcasting: The thoul necromage is a 4th-level 


spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell 


save DC 11, +3 to hit with spell attacks). The thoul 


necromage has the following cleric, warlock, and wizard 


spells prepared: 


* Cantrips (at will): Glade ward, chill touch, eldritch blast, 
resistance 


* Ist level (4 slots): bane, inflict wounds, ray of sickness, 
witch bolt 


* 2nd level (3 slots): ray of enfeeblement 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The thoul necromage makes two attacks 
with its claws, one longsword attack and one claw attack, 
or two attacks with its longsword wielded with two hands. 




+1 Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 
(1d10 + 4) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




HE Lost city 




PSS ME SiS 




siBK M 2019 




Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is 
a creature other than an elf or undead, it must succeed 
a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 
1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 
SUCCESS. 




Standing nearly 7 feet tall, this muscled humanoid has pale 
orange skin and dark gray to black unkempt hair. Yellow 
eyes pierce out from beneath a beetling brow, and its wide 
mouth is full of pointy, yellowed teeth. In one gangly hand 
is a glowing longsword, while the other brandishes a bone 
wand. 




256 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED e THE LOST City 




SUA ES TE ALATA 




THUNDERHERDER 
Large beast, unaligned 




AC; 12 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 68 (8d10 + 24) 
Speed: 30 ft., burrow 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 
19 (+4) 10 (+0) 17 (+3) 2(-4) 10(+0) 5 (-3) \ 
Wi 




Senses: tremorsense 120 ft., passive Perception 10 Se eo TS iia ANA 
: . te tak See N Wy 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Thunderous Stampede: If at least 40 thunderherders are 
moving through an area, they stampede. Any creature 
in the area of a thunderherder stampede suffers 9 (2d8) 
thunder damage due to the trumpeting cacophony from 
these beasts, which can be heard out to a distance of 300 
feet. The creature must also succeed on DC 13 Strength 
saving throw or be pushed 10 feet and knocked prone. 




ACTIONS 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone. 




This 10-foot-long brown-tan worm undulates its segments 
as it pushes through the sand. Nearly half as wide as long, 
the beast has a pointed snout with a small circular maw. A 




knobby blowhole is situated on the top of its head. 




cS OR PE EP I ESE A RETO STS CMS SDAIN i AL gh RE a SE os Naat RT cP TT 




oRiGinaL ADVENTURES REiMICARMATED e THE Lost city > 
PR LSI EE ST ERT TOSS TUE UES NE RE ESE _— j \ / ‘es 




SPA TOS ARSE Dace 




TROLLHOUND 




Medium monstrosity, neutral evil 




AC; 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 30 (4d8 + 12) 
Speed: 40 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
17 (+3) 14 (+2) 17 (+3) 2(-4)  12(41) 3 (4) 
Skills: Perception +5, Stealth +4 




Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Keen Hearing and Smell: The trollhound has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. 




Lockjaw: After making a successful bite attack, the 
trollhound can use a bonus action to lock its jaws. The 
target is grappled (escape DC 13) if it is a Large or smaller 
creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, 
the trollhound can’t bite another target, and the target 
takes 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage at the start of each of 
the trollhound’s turns. 




Pounce: If the trollhound moves at least 20 feet straight 
toward a Medium or smaller target, and then hits 
with a bite attack on the same turn, the target must 
succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or take 5 
(1d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage and be pushed back 5 
feet and knocked prone. If the target is not locked in 
the trollhound’s jaws, the trollhound can make one bite 
attack against it as a bonus action. 




Regeneration: The trollhound regains 5 hit points at the 
start of its turn. If the trollhound takes acid or fire damage, 
this trait doesn’t function at the start of the trollhound’s 
next turn. The trollhound dies only if it starts its turn 
with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate. 




ACTIONS 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage. 


A massive mastiff-like canine stands ready to pounce, 
issuing a deep grumbling growl as viscid drool drips from 
its maw. Its coarse fur is a mix of gray and drab green, and 
it has a powerful neck and shoulders, yet more streamlined 
hind quarters with a knob-like tail. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMNATED e THE LOST City 




VERDANT MINOTAUR 
Large plant, unaligned 




AC: 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 93 (11d10 + 33) 
Speed: 40 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
20 (+5) 11 (+0) 16 (+3) 6(-2) 16(+3) 9 (-1) 




Skills: Perception +7 
Damage Vulnerabilities: fire 




Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaustion, 




poisoned 
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17 




Languages: Abyssal 
Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP) 




Special Equipment: The verdant minotaur wields a +/ 
greataxe. 




Charge: If the verdant minotaur moves at least 10 feet 
straight toward a target and then hits it with a gore attack 
on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing 
damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it 
must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be 




pushed back 10 feet and knocked prone. 




Labyrinthine Recall: The verdant minotaur can recall 
any path it has traveled throughout the Verdant 
Prison. 




Reckless: At the start of its turn, the verdant 
minotaur can gain advantage on all melee weapon 
attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack 
rolls against it have advantage until the start of 
its next turn. 




Regeneration: The verdant minotaur 
regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn 


if it is still in the Verdant Prison. If the 
verdant minotaur leaves the Verdant Prison 
or takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn’t 
function at the start of the verdant minotaur’s 
next turn. The verdant minotaur dies only if 
it starts its turn at 0 hit points, suffered at 
least 10 acid and/or fire damage, and doesn't 




regenerate. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMATED e THE LOST City 




srs Ee eR eT SS REET NTT NET TE I TE 




Verdant Stride: Once on its turn, the verdant minotaur 
can use 10 feet of its movement to step magically into 
one 5-foot section of the hedge wall within its reach and 
emerge from a second 5-foot section within 120 feet of 
the first section, appearing in an unoccupied space within 
5 feet of the second section. 




ACTIONS 




+1 Greataxe: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) slashing damage. 




Gore: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. 


This bulky humanoid sports a bull/human hybrid form, yet 
its skin is greenish and covered with plant growth and shaggy 
roots. It hefts a massive glowing greataxe with a keen blade 
and its horns are ivory-white and sharpened to curved points. 
The stench of decaying plants permeates around its bulk. 




ay 
h fn our ¥ a 
Wo to i ee A Ys 
Aha h WH” fv FAiha yh 
aD é ¥ 




/ 
(i 




reste 




ff 
AEP LSE LEI LL NE et 




WEREBAT 


Small humanoid (goblinoid, shapechanger), neutral evil 


AC: 13 


Hit Points: 24 (7d6) 


Speed: 30 ft. (climb 30 ft, fly 60 ft. in bat or hybrid form) 




STR DEX CON 
8 (-1) 




INT WIS CHA 
17 (+3) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 12 (+1) 8(-1) 




Skills: Perception +3, Stealth +5 




Damage Immunities: bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks not made with 




silvered weapons 




Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages: Goblin (can’t speak in bat form) 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Shapechanger: The werebat can use its action to 
polymorph into a Medium bat-humanoid hybrid, or into 
a Large giant bat, or back into its true form, which is 
humanoid. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same 
in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying 
isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. 




Echolocation (Bat or Hybrid Form Only): The werebat 
has blindsight out to a range of 60 feet as long as it’s not 




deafened. 




Keen Hearing: The werebat has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on hearing. 




Nimble Escape (Humanoid Form Only): The werebat 
can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action 
on each of its turns. 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the werebat 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only): In 
humanoid form, the werebat makes two scimitar attacks 
or two shortbow attacks. In hybrid form, it can make one 
bite attack and one scimitar attack. 


Bite (Bat or Hybrid Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: 
+5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing 
damage, and the werebat gains temporary hit points 
equal to the damage dealt. If the target is a humanoid, it 




em ANT mE omneuenes 




a 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or 
be cursed with werebat lycanthropy. 


Scimitar (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only): Melee 
Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 
(1d6 + 3) slashing damage. 


Shortbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only): Ranged 
Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. 
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 


This short, pale-skinned humanoid is pudgy with a full head 
of unkempt hair. Its face is somewhat flat, with a flattened 
nose and large, slightly pointed ears complete with tufts of 
long hair sprouting from the folds of flesh. 




WEREFOX 




Medium humanoid (human, shapechanger), neutral 




AC: 12 in humanoid form, 13 (natural armor) in fox or 
hybrid form 


Hit Points: 32 (5d8 + 10) 


Speed: 30 ft. (40 ft. in fox form) 




CHA 
17 (+3) 




STR DEX CON INT WIS 


11 (+0) 15 (+2) 14(42) 12(41) 11 (40) 
Skills: Deception +5, Persuasion +5, Stealth +4 
Damage Immunities: bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks not made with 
silvered weapons 
Senses: passive Perception 10 




Languages: Common 




Challenge: 3 (700 XP) 




Shapechanger: The werefox can use its action to 
polymorph into a fox-humanoid hybrid, or into a Small 
fox, or back into its true form, which is humanoid. Its 
statistics, other than its size and AC, are the same in 
each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t 
transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. 




Innate Spellcasting (Fox or Humanoid Form Only): 


The werefox’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell 


save DC 13). The werefox can cast the following spells, 


requiring no material components: 


° 3/day: charm person (humanoid form only, and only 
against the opposite sex) 




°1/day: animal friendship (fox form only) 




a 




~) 
~D iy 
\S 




\ ys 
in 
W 




\ 




Keen Hearing and Smell: The werefox has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell. 




Underbrush Stride: Difficult terrain composed of normal 
vegetation doesn’t cost the werefox extra movement. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only): The 
werefox makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with 
its shortsword. 




Bite (Fox or Hybrid Form Only): Melee Weapon Attack: 
+4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing 
damage. If the target is a humanoid, it must succeed on 
a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with 
werefox lycanthropy. 




Shortsword (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only): Melee 
Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 
(1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 


This female humanoid has a lithe, curvaceous form with 
strawberry-red hair and pale freckles on her smooth cheeks. 
Adorned in a fine, low-cut dress, a shortsword proudly hangs 
at her waist. 




SR EE TS TS NC eT RE eS STE 




Sign ana naREREIENEE Sa 




WOOD GOLEM 




Small construct, unaligned 




AC; 11 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 19 (3d6 + 9) 
Speed: 20 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT 
12 (+1) 8(-1) 16(+3) 1 (-5) 




WIS 
10 (+0) 




CHA 
1 (-5) 




Damage Vulnerabilities: fire 


Damage Immunities: poison, psychic 


Condition Immunities: blinded, charmed, deafened, 
exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 




Languages: - 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




Immutable Form: The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form. 




Stiff Gait: Due to the wood golem’s awkward gait, it 
has disadvantage on initiative rolls and Dexterity saving 
throws. 




ACTIONS 




Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) bludgeoning damage. 
This 3-foot-tall humanoid is crudely fashioned out of odd 




pieces of wood. Several of its wooden body parts are warped 
or splintered and it stiffly moves with an awkward motion. 




ED e THE LOST 




APPENDIX C 
Characters 




his appendix includes a summary of pre-generated 


3 characters that can be used by either the Dungeon 
Master or the players, as well as stat blocks and 
information on the important nonplayer characters en- 




countered in The Lost City. 
READY-TO-PLAY CHARACTERS 




The following 1st-level characters can be used as player 
characters or NPCs. Armor Class and hit points have 
already been adjusted for Dexterity and Constitution. 
These characters can have their levels increased by adding 
a suitable archetype (martial archetype for a fighter, bard 
college for a bard, etc.) and rolling the extra hit dice and 
adding any Constitution bonuses for each level above 1st. 




a ee 




aa 




Ga OS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




St Se 




STANDARD EQUIPMENT PACKS 
(YE FAST PACKS) 




Normally, starting characters are equipped using the gold 
randomly determined by their class (see page 143 of the 
Players Handbook). To set up more quickly, ignore this 
gold and use the standard equipment packs instead, as 
shown on Handout #9 in appendix D. Each player cop- 
ies one pack type (rogues and clerics must take Pack C) 
and they are ready to go! Recommended packs are listed 
in the tables below. 




DM Note: The waterskins are all empty at the start of the 
adventure and the rations have been consumed. 




Name Ottellia Durnan Tristen Hugin Gruenor Sheela 
i Sex | Female Male Male 
Race | Human Hill Dwarf | Human | Human | Mountain Stout Halfling 
Dwarf 
Level (HD) | 1 (1d8) 1 (1d8) 1 (1d8) 1 (1d10) 1 (1d10) 1 (1d10) 
Class | Cleric Cleric Druid Fighter | Fighter Ranger 
Background Hermit Soldier | Folk Hero | Soldier Outlander Noble 
Alignment | LG | LN N | NG | CG NG : 
AC 16 | 18 14 17 | 18 14 
Initiative +1 -l | +2 +0 r el +2 
| _ Speed | )8=625f. =| | 30 f. 25 ft. 25 ft. 
Prof. Bonus | +2 | +2 | +2 | +2 | +2 +2 | 
Hit Points | | | | | 




Strength 




Dexterity 




Constitution 




Intelligence 




Charisma 




( 
( 
( 
( 
( 




4 
Li 




Skills & 




Proficiencies 




Insight +5 




Athletics +4 Animal Handling | Animal Handling | Acrobatics +1 ] History +2 
+5 +2 
Nature +2 Athletics +5 Athletics +6 Nature +2 




ee 
= Religion +2 




Herbalism kit +2 Dice set +2 




Medicine +4 




Perception +5 




Intimidation +2 




Religion +2 




Survival +5 




Intimidation +1 




Persuasion +2 




Perception +2 Survival +1 Stealth +4 




Herbalism kit +2 | Playingcardset | Brewer's supplies Survival +4 
+2 +2 
Mason’s tools +2 | Vehicles (land) +2 | Vehicles (land) +2 Drum +2 Dragonchess set 




+2 




Vehicles (land) +2 




Woodcarver’s 
tools +2 




Armor Chain shirt Chain mail Hide Splint Chain mail Studded leather 
Shield Shield Shield None None None 
Weapons Mace Flail Scimitar Greatsword War pick Rapier 
Sling Light crossbow Quarterstaff Shortbow 
Javelins (3) Shortsword Dagger Daggers (2) | 
Special Items Flasks of holy | Vials of antitoxin | Druidic focus, Silvered dagger | Drum, potion of Vials of basic 
water (2) (2) potion of healing healing poison (2) 
Fast Pack ‘Si C i. G 




SPER tf hs LS 




SSA 




THE Lost City 




ES TLS SSIS ese TT TT 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMATED e 




WTEC ALENT TP RSA NOI 




Arienne Theocrates Dayla 
Female Male Male Female 
High Elf Human Cynidicean High Elf Lightfoot Human 
Halfling 
Level (HD) 1 (1d6) 1 (1d6) 1 (1d6) 1 (1d8) 1 (1d8) 1 (1d8) 
Class Wizard Wizard Sorcerer Bard Rogue Rogue 
Background Charlatan Urchin Entertainer Criminal 
Alignment | LG | CG a = 8=—h(NG NG Cea. a! 




Initiative 
Speed 
Prof. Bonus +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 +2 
HicPoins [= = 7 (fo ls 
Strength 10 (+0) 8 (-1) 10 (+0) 12 (+1) 13 (41) 10 (+0) 
Dexterity 12 (EAD) 16 (+3) 1 (E20) 17 (43) 15 (+2) 17 (+3) 
Constitution 1140) | 1241) 1140) | 13 (+1) 14 (42) 11640) | 
Intelligence 18 (+4) 15 (42) Sys) 9 (-1) 8 (-1) 11 (+0) 
Wisdom Pm iim ##)» hem 
Charisma 14 (+2) 14 (+2) 13 (41) 14 (+2) Ie (esl) 17 (+3) 
Skills & Arcana +6 Arcana +4 Arcana +4 Acrobatics +5 Acrobatics +4 Acrobatics +5 
Proficiencies History +6 Deception +4 History +4 Deception +4 ~ Athletics +3 Deception +5 




Sleight of Hand +5 | Persuasion +3 Persuasion +4 Performance +3 Perception +4 




Persuasion +4 Disguise kit +2 Sleight of Hand +5 | Sleight of Hand +4 | Sleight of Hand +5 




Three- Dragon Forgery kit +2 Stealth +5 Stealth +4 Stealth +5 
Ante set +2 
Disguise kit +2 Disguise kit +2 Dice set +2 
Lyre +2 Lute +2 Thieves’ tools +2 
Pan flute +2 Thieves’ tools +2 
is cule crt | 
lll 
Armor None None None Leather Studded leather Leather 
Shield None None None None None None 
Weapons Dagger Quarterstaft Rapier Shortswords (2) Longsword 
Daggers (2) Darts (12) Light crossbow Hand crossbow Hand crossbow Shortbow 
A Daggers (2) Daggers (3) 
Special Items Component Component Arcane focus, vials | Lyre, pan flute, Caltrops Potion of healing 
pouch, spellbook | pouch, spellbook | of holy water (2) shawm 
Fast Pack B B A Cc C G 




ETSI 2 aT Ee CTT APRESS PO SNE et TSS BN i TH ST ARS STD 




fr, 
ay f ~~ Pe TEST 2 LT PTT eo TOT PGA sets bean cE 
Wy % . * * * 
x 264K ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 
w * y egress zu ue ‘ 2 scristisics SS SS ye — suka ry ERs 




i 
eT Em ee = = 




5 2 Eee TROT PE 




SE eMac 




SSS RTE LSE PPS RIN TP SSP AE TENS SE Rt TRAE A CST ICS TE ET TG EST aN WTS SS LTE LE TEN OE EAT IITA ITT 




po ot era emo a A NP SS BE Dw seers UA NE RRR RAG EAMETS ERA WI IETS OES ak EL rp EMS ae aR : = mee 




MNONPLAYER CHARACTERS 




The following nonplayer characters (NPCs) occur throughout the pages of this adventure. Their full statistics are pro- 
vided in this central location for ease of use during the game. 




AURIGA SIRKINOS, CHIEF MAGI OF 
USAMIGARAS 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), neutral 
AC: 11 
Hit Points: 18 (4d8) 
Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 13 (41) 10(+0) 17 (+3) 11 (40) 11 (+0) 
Skills: Arcana +5 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 




Languages: Cynidicean 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Spellcasting: Auriga is a 3rd-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 13, +5 
to hit with spell attacks). Auriga has the following wizard 
spells prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




*Cantrips (at will): minor illusion, shocking grasp, 
ventriloquism™* 


* Ist level (4 slots): color spray, detect magic, hold portal* 


¢ 2nd level (2 slots): darkness, phantasmal force, ray of 




enfeeblement 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, Auriga has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Dagger: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) pierc- 
ing damage. 


This human is stout and somewhat portly. He wears loose- 




fitting rainbow-colored robes, and a silver mask of a winged 
child. In addition, a silver crown rests on his head. 




PLT NT ASTOMIEIE 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




7 
“( ie : 




vail 




BROTHERHOOD OF GORM its face is concealed by a golden mask depicting a long-haired 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean ), lawful good male with a beard and a stern gaze. 


AC; 16 (chain mail) 


Hit Points: 13 (2d8 + 4) 


Speed: 30 ft. 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
13 (+1) 11 (40) 14 (42) 10 (40) 10(4+0) 11 (+0) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the Brotherhood 
of Gorm has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 




Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) slashing damage, or 6 (1d10 
+ 1) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




These humans each wear iron chain mail over blue tunics 
and carry longswords. Each wears a small steel helmet and 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




a 




CYNIDICEAN ACOLYTE 


Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 
AC: 10 


Hit Points: 9 (2d8) 


Speed: 30 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 11 (+0) 11 (+0) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 11 (+0) 




Skills: Medicine +4, Religion +2 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 12 




Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) i 




Spellcasting: The acolyte is a 1st-level spellcaster. Its TN => il 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to <3 lif 
hit with spell attacks). The acolyte has the following cleric ‘ 
spells prepared: 




¢ Cantrips (at will): guidance, resistance, thaumaturgy 




* Ist level (2 slots): bless, healing word, sanctuary 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the acolyte 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Club: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage. 




This human wears dark blue robes held in place with a rope 
belt on which dangles a smooth club. It wears a demonic 
mask complete with recurved horns and a leering toothy grin. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMNATED e THE LOST City mx 267 




Op ra eT 2s RET 




CYNIDICEAN COMMONER 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 
AC; 10 


Hit Points: 4 (1d8) 




Speed: 30 ft. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 10(+0) 10(+0) 10(4+0) 10 (40) 10 (+0) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 0 (10 XP) 


Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the commoner 




has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage. 




ORIGIN 




This human has pasty white skin and white hair. It has large 
eyes, wears gayly colored robes, and carries a shortsword on 




a simple belt. 




Oe 8 
CYNDICEAN NAMES 




The following is a collection of Cynidicean names the 
DM canuse for NPCs encountered during the explora- 
tion of the Lost City. 




Male Names: Bruticrates, Charaius, Eros, Gaius, lako- 
vos, Karolos, Likourgos, Lucius, Manelatos, Marcellus, 
Mathaios, Oppius, Paschalis, Stathis, Thanassis, Zach- 
aries. 




Female Names: Amatia, Caedicia, Caestia, Chara, Cin- 
cia, Efthumia, Egnatia, Eliana, Kalliroi, Kalomira, Louk- 
ia, Novia, Quirinia, Sotiria, Tusia, Volcatia. 




—————————————————————————— 




CYNIDICEAN CULT FANATIC OF 
ZARGON 


Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 
AC; 12 (leather armor) 


Hit Points: 33 (6d8 + 6) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 1341) 12(41) 1040) 14 (+2) 14 (42) 




Skills: Deception +4, Persuasion +4, Religion +2 
Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 


Special Equipment: The cult fanatic of Zargon carries 




a black iron holy symbol of Zargon (see Handout #7 in 
appendix D). 




Dark Devotion: The cult fanatic of Zargon has advantage 
on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. 




Spellcasting: The cult fanatic of Zargon is a 4th-level 
spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save 




DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). The cult fanatic 
of Zargon has the following cleric spells prepared (an 
asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




* Cantrips (at will): resistance, slime spit,* tentacle pull,* 
thaumaturgy 




* Ist level (4 slots): bane, inflict wounds, slimy grasp* 
* 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, prayer of healing, spiritual 




weapon (tentacle) 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the cult fanatic 
of Zargon has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 




Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The cult fanatic of Zargon makes two me- 
lee attacks, 




Flail: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage. 




This human wears a hooded blood-red cloak and proudly dis- 
plays an iron holy symbol of a tentacled horror. A tentacled 
iron mask conceals its face, and it wields a black-headed flail. 




yaya sntnren ren exeneuppc it Tar 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 
Rega A aE ER ET EPS aE TEAR eT ete NC A 2 EPS Le TTD 2 TR RE NTE 




IUGR Tn TUN cenit 




CYNIDICEAN CULTIST OF ZARGON 




Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 




CYNIDICEAN MAGE 




Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 




AC; 11 (leather armor) AC: 10 
Hit Points: 11 (2d8 + 2) Hit Points: 9 (2d8) 
Speed: 30 Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
12 (+1) 10 (+0) 12(+1) 10(+0)10(40) 12 (+1) 10-40). ILO). 1640) 1663) 11'G0). 11 G0) 
Skills: Deception +3, Religion +2 Skills: Arcana +5 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 


Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the cultist of 




Zargon has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. 




This human wears crimson robes and carries a shortsword 
proudly on its belt. A mask of a tentacled horror conceals its 
VISALE. 




4 Pr 
VS 
27 
w™ 




% 




» 
* 


r 


gf * 
? 




gt Os oT ESET 




STA RANT TE 




Mh, | a enna aeeinnimee ein 
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




SES TTT SS FST SAT EL ATM A AG SEES WS TPES ET SD TEESE Pf ORY SE ETAT SENOS ST LT ATR 2 EE HT 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Spellcasting: The mage is a 2nd-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 13, +5 to 
hit with spell attacks). The mage has the following wizard 
spells prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




* Cantrips (at will): dancing lights, minor illusion, shocking 
grasp 


* Ist level (3 slots): burning hands, feather fall, hold portal, * 
mage armor, magic missile 


Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the mage has 




disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Dagger: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 
5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing 
damage. 




This human wears purple robes and gold mask of a hedgehog. 
Arcane energy dances along its fingertips as it gives you a wry 
smile. 




SAMBA eRe AN SR NN RU NE RE AN RE 




CYNIDICEAN PRIEST 




Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 




CYNIDICEAN WARRIOR 




Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 




AC; 12 (leather armor) 
Hit Points: 22 (4d8 + 4) 




AC: 13 (studded leather armor) 
Hit Points: 16 (3d8 + 3) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
10 (+0) 13 (+1) 12 (+1) 10(+0)14(4+2) = 14 (+2) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
13 (41) 12 (41) 12(41) 10 (40) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 




Skills: Religion +2 


Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 


Spellcasting: The priest is a 3rd-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to 




hit with spell attacks). The priest has the following cleric 
spells prepared: 




¢ Cantrips (at will): guidance, mending, resistance 
* Ist level (4 slots): command, cure wounds, shield of faith 
¢ 2nd level (2 slots): aid, silence 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the priest has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Mace: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. 




This human wears plain dark robes and is adorned with an 




ornate mask depicting a devilish visage. It carries a pewter 




incense burner which emits a curl of reddish smoke. 




IRR STN SN ITT 




Ss ISTO TENTED VENTE ELE EEE EER LEON 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 
Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the warrior 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) slashing damage, or 6 (1d10 
+ 1) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




This human has pasty white skin and white hair. It has large 
eyes and wears gray leather armor studded with black iron. 
It cradles a longsword in its hand with the flat of the blade 




resting on its shoulder. 




an 




EE SE SEE ST IES ISIE IS ENED (SELIG PS NE OR IT a ERAS TLE TN — é 
oricimaL ADVENTURES REICH RIT ATED e THE Lost city ary 
a = TS eA EP ® 
of / 




SES SNA SE TT LE YT ERS IT 




y 4 % 




\ 




DAGOTHRA, YOUNG BROWN DRAGON 
Large dragon, neutral evil 


AC: 16 (natural armor) 


Hit Points: 102 (12d10 + 36) 


Speed: 40 ft., burrow 60 ft. 




STR DEX CON CHA 
18 (+4) 10 (+0) 17 (+3) 14 (+2) 
Saving Throws: Dex +3, Con +6, Wis +5, Cha +5 
Skills: Perception +8, Stealth +6 




Damage Immunities: acid 




INT WIS 
12 (+1) 14 (+2) 




Senses: darkvision 120 ft., tremorsense 120 ft., passive 
Perception 18 




Languages: Common, Draconic 




Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP) 




Innate Spellcasting: Dagothra’s innate spellcasting ability 
is Charisma (spell save DC 13). He can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components: 




° 1/day each: acid splash, create or destroy water 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: Dagothra makes three attacks per round: 
one with his bite and two with his claws. 




aaa ara ER SSR 
a 




ROE ROE HSA SR ES TE Ne LEAT LTA ES 




Sa I Te ee 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIN CA RATED e THE Poor elny 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage. 




Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. 




Acid Breath (Recharge 5-6): Dagothra exhales acid in 
a 40-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that 
line must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
35 (10d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much 




damage on a successful one. 




Sandstorm (1/Day): Dagothra creates a vortex of swirl- 
ing sand in a 20-foot-diameter cloud up to 100 feet away 
from him. Any other creature that starts its turn inside 
the vortex takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage, is blinded, 
and must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or 




be knocked prone. 




This draconic beast has light tan hide covered with leathery 
scales. Several bony protrusions adorn its head and neck, and 
it sports an elongated maw. Its claws are short and powerful 
with thick webbing between the appendages. On its back are 
two useless wing stubs. 




AES LA TES A API 




SATS LE ST INE SP NT TORO ALAN RET TEI SPS 




i 80 1H a eA TR SETTER EA 




SREB UT NE IT TPE SE DMR TRS 




DANACRETES, HIGH PRIEST OF 
ZARGON 


Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean ), lawful evil 
AC: 19 (+/ plate armor) 


Hit Points: 67 (9d8 + 27) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
15 (+2) 10 (+0) 17 (+3) 10 (+0) 18 (+4) 14 (+2) 




Saving Throws: Wis +7, Cha +5 


Skills: Persuasion +5, Religion +3 


Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 14 
Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP) 




Special Equipment: Danacretes wears +1 plate armor 
and carries a tentacle rod. He proudly displays a black iron 
holy symbol of Zargon (see Handout #7 in appendix D) 
and carries three spell scrolls of cure wounds. He has a ring 
of keys that unlock various doors, cells, and chests. (See 




areas K6 and K9 in chapter 6.) 




Regenerate (1/Day): As a bonus action, Danacretes can 
utter a prayer to infuse himself with the regenerative 
powers of Zargon. He regains 10 hit points at the start 
of each of his next 3 turns if he has at least 1 hit point. 




Spellcasting: Danacretes is a 9th-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 to 
hit with spell attacks). He has the following cleric spells 
prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




¢ Cantrips (at will): guidance, resistance, slime spit, * sacred 
flame 


* Ist level (4 slots): bane, command, inflict wounds, slimy 
grasp” 


* 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, silence 




¢ 3rd level (3 slots): animate dead, dispel magic, meld into 
stone, striking* 




° 4th level (3 slots): divination, guardian of faith 
° 5th level (1 slot): conjure ooze* 
Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, Danacretes 




has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




| SSE ie Pm St NNR RL PT St I 




Unholy Smite (2/Day): As a bonus action, Danacretes 
can utter a prayer to Zargon that calls down unholy 
energy. He deals an extra 13 (3d8) necrotic damage when 
he hits a target with his next weapon attack. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: Danacretes makes three tentacle rod attacks. 




Tentacle Rod: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 
ft., one target. Hit: 3 (ld6) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is hit three times by the rod on one turn, the target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or 
suffer the following effects for | minute: the target’s speed 
is halved, it has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws, 
and it can’t use reactions. Moreover, on each of its turns, 
it can take either an action or a bonus action, but not 
both. At the end of each of its turns, it can repeat the sav- 
ing throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. 




This aging human is bald and sports a mangled ear and a 
nasty scar on the right side of his face. He wears black plate 
armor and carries a rod tipped with three violet writhing 
tentacles bristling with wicked suckers. 




DARIUS 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), lawful evil 




AC: 16 (chain mail) 
Hit Points: 39 (6d8 + 12) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
13 (+1) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 




Saving Throws: Wis +5, Cha +4 


Skills: Persuasion +4, Religion +2 


Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 3 (700 XP) 




Spellcasting: Darius is a Gth-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to 
hit with spell attacks). He has the following cleric spells 
prepared (an asterisked spell is from appendix A): 




* Cantrips (at will): Light, resistance, sacred flame, slime 
spit™ 


* Ist level (4 slots): bane, guiding bolt, inflict wounds, 
slimy grasp * 


* 2nd level (3 slots): hold person, silence, spiritual weapon 




(flail) 




° 3rd level (3 slots): bestow curse, striking* 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, Darius has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




Unholy Smite (2/Day): As a bonus action, Darius can 
utter a prayer to Zargon that calls down unholy energy. 
He deals an extra 9 (2d8) necrotic damage when he hits a 
target with his next weapon attack. 




ACTIONS 




Greatflail: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d10 + 1) bludgeoning damage. 




This bald human sports tattoos of purple tentacles on his face 
and wrapping around his neck. He wears bronze chain mail 
over a dark green tunic and carries a two-handed flail with 




two spiked heads. 




vy) 




INI 




n\ 




WER 




A 
Nn 




yas © 




MY) 




Mh; abe 




MWI1/ y ES 




Th 
itt hy 




subi? 
KY 




t 
xsS 
why + 




DESERT RAIDER 


Medium humanoid (human), any alignment 
AC: 11 


Hit Points: 1 3 (2d8 + 4) 


Speed: 30 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
12 (+1) 13(+1) 14(+2) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 11 (+0) 




Senses: passive Perception 10 
Languages: Common 




Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP) 




ACTIONS 




Scimitar: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) slashing damage. 




Shortbow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. 




Covered with loose-fitting white robes and a black turban, 
this human has dried, weather-worn skin. Black tattoos 
adorn powerful arms and a curved blade dangles from a 
loop on its belt. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




RE ERA TTT EER TEE TESTE SC A RTT TS CEET IT 




KANADIUS, GRAND MASTER OF THE 
BROTHERHOOD OF GORM 


Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), lawful good 


AC; 16 (chain mail) 


Hit Points: 26 (4d8 + 8) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
16 (+3) 11 (+0) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 11 (+0) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 


Special Equipment: Kanadius wears a helm of telepathy. 




Bolster: At the start of his turn, Kanadius can use a bonus 
action to grant an ally within 30 feet of him who is not 
incapacitated advantage on its next attack roll. 




Sunlight Sensitivity; While in sunlight, Kanadius 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Longsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 
+ 3) slashing damage if used with two hands. 




This imposing human wears iron chain mail over a dark blue 
tunic. His gold mask depicts a bearded male with a stern gaze. 
His silver helmet is more ornate and has a protective visor. 




KEOGH 




Small humanoid (gnome), neutral good 




AC: 15 (chain shirt) 
Hit Points: (7d6 + 14) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
16 (+3) 14 (42) 14(42) 12 (+1) 12 (41) 11 (40) 




Skills: Investigation +3, Perception +3, Stealth +4 
Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages: Elvish, Gnomish, Terran, Undercommon 




Challenge: 2 (450 XP) 




Favored Enemy: Keogh’s favored enemy is the drow. 
Keogh has advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to 
track drow, as well as on Intelligence checks to recall 
information about them. 




Gnome Cunning: Keogh has advantage on Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. 




Innate Spellcasting: Keogh’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Intelligence (spell save DC 11). He can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components: 




¢ At will: nondetection (self only) 


° 1/day each: blindness/deafness, blur, disguise self 
Spellcasting: Keogh is a 3rd-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 11, +3 to 




hit with spell attacks). He knows the following ranger 
spells: 




* Ist level (3 slots): cure wounds, hunters mark, longstrider 




Stone Camouflage: Keogh has advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: If Keogh has both shortswords drawn, he 




can make two shortsword attacks. 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 




Hand Crossbow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
30/120 ft. one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




ica So 




IGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




fh 
VARS 
MERA BK In. 2019 


BS ETE Ses 




REACTIONS 




Giant Killer: When a Large or larger creature within 5 
feet of Keogh hits or misses him with an attack, he can 
attack that creature immediately after its attack, provided 
that he can see the creature. 




Although short at 3 ¥% feet tall, this completely hairless deep 
gnome is well-muscled. He has a proud chin and slightly 
pointed oversized ears that flair straight out. His nose is wide 
and flat. He wears a fine chain shirt under his leather jerkin 
and a pair of shortswords swing at his side. He holds a hand 




crossbow. 




MAGI OF USAMIGARAS 




; ae ACTIONS 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), any alignment 
AC: 10 Dagger: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 
Hit Points: 9 (2d8) 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing 
Speed: 30 damage. 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA These humans wear rainbow-colored robes and silver masks 
TOTO) AGO) 0aeO): 14 G2) 110) © 110) depicting a winged child. Each wields a curved dagger. 




Skills: Arcana +4 


Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 


Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Spellcasting: The Magi of Usamigaras is a 1st-level 
spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell 
save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). The Magi of 
Usamigaras has the following wizard spells prepared: 




¢ Cantrips (at will): blade ward, chill touch, ray of frost 




* Ist level (2 slots): chromatic orb, detect magic, magic missile 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the Magi of 
Usamigaras has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




oe eens Fe 




aes == So SY PRO Ty 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED THE Lost City 




‘ears na mae Ree yn ELE =A ESS UL SRE Et GE ME ey 2 SARE AL RE RR GARTEN MOT EOE BB ATTIRE Se ee ee 




PANDORA, CHAMPION OF MADARUA 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), lawful good 




AC: 16 (chain mail) (i a | : ht Hoe ei? 
Hit Points: 30 (4d8 + 12) a: | oe yy h 
Speed: 30 




4 4 
MOO OOH f 
eae VG, 
. E ss, 




} 
4 
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA iy 
17 (+3) 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 
Challenge: 1 (200 XP) 




Special Equipment: Pandora wields a +/ shortsword in 
her right hand and a normal shortsword in her left. 




Improved Critical: Pandora's weapon attacks score a 
critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20. 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, Pandora has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 




(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: Pandora makes two shortsword attacks. 




+1 Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage. 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 




This warrior maiden is taller than the others but wears a 
similar suit of chain mail over a green tunic. Likewise, she 
hefts two shortswords, one emitting a soft blue radiance. 




278K ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




WARRIOR MAIDEN OF MADARUA 
Medium humanoid (human, Cynidicean), lawful good 




AC: 16 (chain mail) 
Hit Points: 11 (2d8 + 2) 




Speed: 30 
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
12 (+1) 14(+2) 13(+1) 10(+0)10(40) 11 (40) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 




Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP) 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the Warrior 
Maiden of Madarua has disadvantage on attack rolls, as 
well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 36279 




BeKn.2017% 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: When wielding two shortswords, the War- 
rior Maiden of Madarua makes one attack with her pri- 
mary hand and another with her secondary hand. She 
does not add her ability modifier to the damage of the 
second attack. 




Shortsword (Primary): Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 




Shortsword (Secondary): Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1dG) piercing damage. 




These humans wear bronze chain mail over green tunics. 
Each wears a bronze mask of a warrior maiden and carries 
a pair of shortswords. 




WARRIOR MONK OF MADARUA 
Medium humanoid (buman, Cynidicean), lawful good 
AC: 15 


Hit Points: 19 (3d8 + 6) 


Speed: 40 




STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
11 (+0) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 11 (+0) 




Senses: darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages: Cynidicean 
Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP) 




Ki Points: The Warrior Monk of Madarua has 3 ki 


points. She can spend 1 ki point as a bonus action to gain 


one of the following benefits: 


¢ Flurry of Blows: Immediately after taking the Attack 
action on her turn, the Warrior Monk of Madarua 




makes two unarmed strikes. : y Ee , TRRPNUY Iban 2017 Feet 
¢ Patient Defense: The Warrior Monk of Madarua can 




take the Dodge action on her turn. 




¢ Step of the Wind: The Warrior Monk of Madarua can 
take the Disengage or Dash action on her turn, and her 
jump distance is doubled for the turn. 




Sunlight Sensitivity: While in sunlight, the Warrior 
Monk of Madarua has disadvantage on attack rolls, as 
well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 




Unarmored Defense: While the Warrior Monk of 
Madarua is wearing no armor and wielding no shield, her 




AC includes her Wisdom modifier. 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: The Warrior Monk of Madarua makes one 
shortsword attack and one unarmed strike. 




Shortsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 




Unarmed Strike: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage. 




These humans wear simple brown robes with rope belts. Each 
wears a bronze mask of a warrior maiden, and has a curved 
shortsword strapped to her back. Their hair is pulled back 
tight and in a topknot. 




serait & nC SENET SPEAR Ta ee DI FS Hah RAT RE HR tT NT 
T city 




eeepc 




X | ” icine, RCT te — se rin ny ea TRE RN TAC TREN CERRO 
} 4 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LO 
CO sccseceensmonesns eae EER I I EP a SET PS 




ELSPA RN NOR NOUN SRE BRE STR RESERNITE 




,, 
SANs 




SAN 


\ 1 


FF aeitig , Sb ty 
nal. er 




ZARGON 
Huge aberration, lawful evil 




AC: 19 (natural armor) 
Hit Points: 175 (13d12 + 91) 
Speed: 30 ft., swim 30 ft. 




CHA 
14 (+2) 




STR DEX CON INT WIS 
25 (+7) 14 (+2) 24 (+7) 20 (+5) 18 (+4) 
Saving Throws: Dex +7, Con +12, Wis +9 
Skills: Athletics +12, Perception +9 
Senses: blindsight 120 ft., darkvision 120 ft., truesight 
120 ft., passive Perception 19 
Languages: Common, Cynidicean, telepathy 1,000 ft. 
Challenge: 13 (10,000 XP) 




Horn: Zargon’s horn is the source of its regeneration. To 
remove its horn a creature must enter its space and succeed 
on an opposed Strength contest. If the horn is removed, 
Zargon loses its Legendary Resistance and Regeneration 
traits. If Zargon is reduced to 0 hit points, but its horn is 
not removed and destroyed, its entire body regenerates in 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City M28 
. — — . - —— ~» 




J, me 
{ it! i 




mg 
{ 
* ora € 




: 7 — RS « 
tet “7; “FZ 
* ‘4 7 a Z 
7 “ G "“@, 
iA 




a 
a oe A. 
“i Rx yet 
ae =ci(f0" 
ote 
rm 




2 




13 years. Its horn can be destroyed by bathing it in lava 
of the “Eye of Zargon” (see chapter 6, area Q) within 24 




hours of removal. 




Innate Spellcasting: Zargon’s innate spellcasting ability 
is Intelligence (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell 
attacks). Itcan innately cast the following spells, requiring 
no material components (an asterisked spell is from 




appendix A): 


© At will: freedom of movement 


° 1/day: transmute rock* 


° 3/day each: conjure ooze, * slime spit* 




Legendary Resistance (3/Day): If Zargon fails a saving 
throw, it can choose to succeed instead. 




Nondetection: Zargon can’t be targeted by any divination 
magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors. 




Regeneration: Zargon regains 25 hit points at the start 
of its turn, as long as it has 1 hit point remaining and its 
horn is still intact. 




Mm 
r 




Se mee ree a f, 




nee mermnmere 




tt 
ta 




V4 




ACTIONS 




Multiattack: Zargon can make six tentacle attacks against 
up to three different targets within range. In addition, it 
can make one bite attack and one gore attack. 




Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) 
acid damage. If Zargon hits the same target with three or 
more tentacle attacks in the same turn, the target is grap- 
pled (escape DC 17). Until this grapple ends, the target is 
restrained, and Zargon can’t use these tentacles on another 
target. At the start of each of the target’s turns it takes 16 
(2d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) acid damage. 




Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 12 (1d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) 
poison damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed 
on DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become corrupt- 
ed with Zargon’s foul slime. The corrupted target can’t 
regain hit points except through the use of magic. The 
creature must repeat the saving throw each day, taking 13 
(3d8) poison damage on a failed save. If the creature dies 
while corrupted, it turns into a pool of noxious slime. A 
cure disease spell removes this effect. 




Gore: Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) 




acid damage. 




Spew Slime (Recharge 5-6): Zargon spews brown acidic 
slime in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must 
make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 
(4d8) acid damage and become blinded until the end of 
its next turn on a failed save, or half as much damage and 
no blindness on a successful one. 




LEGENDARY ACTIONS 




Zargon can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the 
options below. Only one legendary action option can be 
used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s 
turn. Zargon regains spent legendary actions at the start 
of its turn. 




Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions): Zargon casts one spell 
from its Innate Spellcasting trait. 




Tentacle Attacks: Zargon makes three tentacle attacks 
against a single target. 




S 




Unholy Smite: Zargon touches a target (no attack roll 
needed) within range, causing 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. 




Zargon stands a full 15 feet tall on a squirming mass of 
tentacles. Its rubbery body has six lashing tentacles each end- 
ing in wicked black barbs. Sickly brown slime drips from its 
bulk and yellow ichor oozes from its pores. Its head is lizard- 
like with a wide maw of recurved teeth. Above its bloody 
single eye is a black horn with silver flecks. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




CYNIDICEAN ENCOUNTERS 




Cynidiceans are an ethnic offshoot of normal humans 
who dwell in the Lost City of Cynidicea. The Cynid- 
iceans have lived underground so long that they have 
pale skin and typically bone white to light gray hair. They 
have developed oversized eyes that grant them darkvi- 
sion to a range of 30 feet, but also sensitivity to bright 
light such as daylight. Cynidiceans tend to wear colorful 
loose-fitting clothing such as robes, cloaks, or togas, and 
typically wear simple sandals. They are fond of wearing 
elaborate masks often depicting animals, adorned with 
feathers, beads, and animal teeth or bones. Cynidiceans 
typically eschew armor but some carry shields. Favored 
weapons include shortswords, spears, and clubs. 




Cynidiceans often behave oddly, and sometimes down- 
right irrationally. This is due to spending most of their 
time awake living in hallucinatory dream worlds stem- 
ming from an addiction to narcotic fungus (the elixir of 
fantasy). For examples of this queer behavior, consult the 
list of random encounters, below. More details on the 
Cynidiceans are found in the “DM’s Background” sec- 
tion in chapter 3. 




A dozen encounters with Cynidiceans are presented here 
for the DM to use when prompted in the text of the ad- 
venture. All relevant stat blocks are listed earlier in this 
appendix. The DM can pick one or roll 1d12 to ran- 
domly determine the nature of the encounter. The DM 
is encouraged to use these sample encounters as a basis to 
create his or her own. 




1. The characters encounter one Cynidicean commoner 
in a wolf mask. This Cynidicean believes he is a werewolf 
and when he sees the party, he drops to all fours, howls, 
sniffs, circles, and generally behaves as a wolf. He may try 
to bite if approached too closely. He falsely believes he 
is immune to mundane weapons and only cowers if the 
characters brandish magic or silvered weapons. 




2. Three Cynidiceans approach the party, dressed in dark 
robes and devil masks. They carry lit incense burners that 
trail scented purple smoke. These are two Cynidicean 
acolytes and a Cynidicean priest in a delusional state. 
They believe they are much more powerful spellcasters. 
They see the party as demons and try to drive them off 
with loud cries and foul-smelling smoke. The priest’s 
name is Brother Theodeus. 




3. One Cynidicean commoner dressed in bright green 
robes and a bird mask approaches the party. She saunters 
slowly up to one party member (determined randomly) 
and hands them a small pouch. With a smile, she contin- 
ues to walk on, ignoring any attempt the characters make 
to talk to her. The pouch contains a strange powdered 
substance that smells like cloves. The powder has no spe- 
cial properties. 




4. This group of five Cynidicean commoners are dressed 
in brightly colored robes and wear masks with human 
faces. They assume the party is the same band of barbar- 
ian raiders who looted the city centuries ago. As such, 
they flee in panic as the party approaches. 




5. Six Cynidicean commoners, wearing striped robes and 
camel masks, zig-zag slowly down the hall in single file. 
They are trying to avoid the invisible snakes on the floor. 
They spend the time and effort to show the party the invis- 
ible snakes and encourage the characters to walk around 
the snakes. They get very frustrated if the characters don’t 
heed their warnings. There are, of course, no snakes. 




6. This group of four Cynidicean commoners wear in- 
sect masks, carry large clay jars, and hum like bees. They 
stop and ask the party to drink from the jars. Anyone 
who does regains 1d4 lost hit points, as these jars contain 
royal honey from the lair of killer bees. If attacked, or if 
someone tries to drink twice, they fly into a rage, smash 
the jars, and recklessly attack with concealed daggers (+2 
to hit, 2 [1d4] piercing damage). 




7. This party of four Cynidicean commoners wear vari- 
ous animal masks: Hawk, Fish, Cat, and Fox. These masks 
also serve as their names. They are carrying a stretcher 
with a gourd on it. These Cynidiceans are rushing their 
“sick friend” (the gourd: Dog) to a cleric. If the party has 
a cleric, the Cynidiceans insist that the cleric cure their 




friend. 




8. This group of six Cynidicean commoners are clad in 
bright yellow robes and human masks. They stop and 
stare at the party for a minute, before the leader “recog- 
nizes” a character (determined randomly) as the King or 
Queen of Cynidicea. They follow the chosen character, 
sing songs of praise, and wait on the character hand and 
foot. In general, they smother the character with atten- 
tion, while largely ignoring the others. However, they 
will not fight for their King or Queen. They are more 
likely to grab the character and try to rush him or her to 
safety. Their spokesman is named Policrates the Herald. 




IR RERSINER LUN LODO DAN TE REIL RE REL DLE GE ELLEN EE LIES LO IELTS LE OLLIE LEN AELAES SELENE EET LETTING RELENTLESS ILE DELL AALS LE, 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




it EIS I IE TR UNEASE TRIRESASIT SR ERIS PSN 




ERR NL 




2 IU OS LE NEE TE 




9. A group of four Cynidicean commoners in feathered 
robes and bird masks approach. Upon seeing the party, 
the Cynidiceans “fly” (run) forward, flapping their arms 
and squawking. They invite the party to fly along and 
happily lead them on a merry chase through the pyramid, 
the streets of the Lost City, or wherever the encounter 
occurs. If the party refuses to join them, the Cynidiceans 
insult the party as poor creatures who cannot fly with 
taunts such as, “Thou land-bound slugs.” They circle 
three times, and “fly” away. They will also “fly” away if 
attacked, squawking and hooting as they go. 




10. A group of six Cynidicean commoners, with their 
bodies painted black and wearing vulture masks, walk 
quietly toward the party. They carry long wooden boards 
but seem friendly and normal. They will follow the party, 
waiting for something to be killed. When it is, they will 




rush over and start building a coffin to fit the body. When 
they are done, they will demand a payment of 10 gp. 
They attack with clubs (+2 to hit, 2 [1d4] bludgeoning 
damage) and light hammers (+2 to hit, range 20/60 ft., 2 
[1d4] bludgeoning damage) if they are not paid. 




11. These five Cynidiceans are a band of adventurers. They 
assume the characters are some kind of monster (random- 
ly pick something, like a troll or a band of goblins), and 
attack. The group consists of three Cynidicean warriors, 
a Cynidicean mage, and a Cynidicean acolyte. 




12. The party encounters a Cynidicean cult fanatic of 
Zargon and his 12 Cynidicean cultist of Zargon fol- 
lowers. They are on a holy quest and insist the party joins 
them. This is a ploy to capture the characters when they 
let their guard down. If captured, they are destined for 
eventual sacrifice to Zargon. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMNATED e THE LOST City 




APPENDIX D 
Handouts 




HATIDOUVT #I 




. 




¥, = 
JBKN-2O7f 




\i rele “77, 




HANDOUT #2 




HANDOUT #3 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST CiTYy 
wf %® yd ee a Sa Rane Tae enn] 




ut 
iain 




HANDOUT #4 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




HANDOUT #5 




M288 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




en ae 




HANDOUT #6 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST C 




ity 




LH LOOGCUVH 8# LOOGCUVH 




TT TR wee? 
Bicioe wah 
Ge 




Pack A Pack.B Pack C 




Backpack Backpack Backpack 
Sack 2 Sacks 4 Pouches 
-Hooded Lantern 6 Torches Holy Symbol (Cleric 
_ 2 Oil Flasks 3 Oil Flasks or Thieves’ Tools (Rog 




S Tinderbox or Other Tools/Kits 
l0 Iron Spikes 10-Foot Pole _—_10 Iron Spikes 
= - Hammer 50 Feet of Rope 50 Feet of Rope — 
ers Waterskin Waterskin 
(Empty) (Empty) 
Steel Mirror 




ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City S$(2919¢ 




APPENDIX E 




Maps 




here are many maps of the step pyramid and the areas in and around the Lost City in this book. They are in- 
4 cluded in the preceding chapters near their encounter descriptions, and they are also collected here in this ap- 
pendix for ease of use by the Dungeon Master. 




| Nae At AAA UM Me GTM aa ETN nly Ta) et ul PENI Jaye 




~~ MAP 2 Tier 2 ¥ 
Mi a UPPER PYRAMID 7% 
maaan . [_]=10 Feet . , 




LY, Trapdoor 
U ® in Floor 




O Cylinder 
-# Corpse 




t Trap 




[] =10 Feet 




» Secret 
y Door 




y Trapdoor 
@) in Floor 




7 © Trapdoor 
in Ceiling 




- Zan 6 




Zino 




Stairs 




t Altar 




yy @® Statue 
A Trapdoor 
in Ceiling 




& Rubble 




3 Curtain 




§ Secret Door 




ASSAD A RR 




sass 5 7 ‘ cesvaareneren srepugcne aaeaenebai 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE LOST City 




aR a 




lS lal — lla 
ig 




Teeei 6 
~ J 




et 
2 ae 
Te fe Tos TTT | 




AGS: WY 


s y ‘. we Sw 
& OF SN 
s . 2 OY 




RK \ 
$ Qn» 
Way 
\ SRA 




293 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




MAP 5 Tier 5 




THE UPPER 
PYRAMID 




1 Door 




© Secret Trapdoor 




=S= Secret Door a Pit 
= s 




> Fountain Acid 
Sand 




ee Ladder 7)» Stairs 




®& Statue 




j Curtain 




VSS 




wa pS] S| 
at = 




UX a 




ING 
> 




\> 




wR STS) 




Tul 




by 




VV 




: y ‘ 
/ 


\ S 
=\\>57// 




~~ 




\v Y 
ee) 




27 
/ \5 —I~ 




~ \yNsy, a ——\ 
\S LE 4 aa) 
Wee 
—! 




I. 




Av 




[EA 




Y ae ae 




Wy Ws Hy; yy On U 
Wai Ti Lig §= 2 




TSR 
(ZS Aves lines 




Ne 
cS be ze S SWWAE = i 




= IN DU) VY 
sam moe ee 




ma 
= 




SNe 




STZ 




Oy /, 




AE TIS J 




BAS 




— JAS 




= 




DL Z 




N\A RVENI 
& A TcSSemeeae ms AKIN: 




| 




J 
2 




THINGS 
lE Ayal 7 EN 
Fs USS 




==a5== a TY 




NOS rs Ms 




: | 
GE*) Sa 
y a Ze 
ee - all eye 
ae Sua 
aN 1 ae ave 
SCCe Cee ee Nae 




FE ed IS 




> PG Gee A CAE 
Gas _| (RD I) RT AN RS7 Ts ihe ¥ 
i we “il 




Se_ VA 
Se GP = 




VT, 




FS 
RENT 
sj 




NA Li ue UNG G; GAME 




| caret) 




zi if : : AS 
mht i i ie i Ms Si ae mal uy we 




————a = 




Kody ericinaL ADVENTURES REITICARTIATED ° THE Lost city 




ZS 




At < 




(oF ee 




ANY \\ \ 




i 
WY 




WANE 




fu 




Me 




Wi 
a wb My 




v) 
@! 




: a ait AY i} My 
eases coms 




Hi ied Dey 
i PAA TY 




Ni. 




MAP 6 Tier 6 




7 leah elastance alee 
a 
Rd 
a 




- AGERE 
Suscepeusaussnacie7en 
TEERE 


a p| | | ld 




\ i 
“Ee. 
‘SEOnE: 
| 66 | | 
2 plobad 




2 
yy 




gunngonnnguansnuungevsnadar 3824 
“. 




SS ec i 
Cross Section wd : ! 
. << ve ny 
E { mney 
“Level G Room 66 ce se 




fe 




Level:7, Room-79 an , Trapdoor 
foo in Floor 




Level’ 8; Room 90 Ly 




- 




ack ip ey S 
ae Sasa ju oh ans SO) jeans WK 
a nh Eel see 7 me WAN aie SNS Ww IS A a \ 




: — 
onicinaL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e THE Lost city Ox 




Sees 




iN 




\ 




= 




Vy Uy YY 
WAS fee 




AY AN x 




: 




\\ 




vA 




Y a 
“\\N 




Hole in Floor 
and Ceiling 




3° Cross Section 
USING 




/ 




iy . ’ ” - 
M. | Or a 1 4 
1 




nO wet ed mG 7 PTT (I 
PON AN i, EI jae ish 
MAL OI oh yi ine i a Nah 




Ws } 
Pee } 




Ai 




a HSE 
ces 




SE 




a Up i ’ “ ‘Ny \ 
blll fl Katt! | 2 thal NY ANN Awl 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




reassess 




U4 ute Uy up ypuygVE bj 




, Uf 




Wo Why \ 
NK. K 




Wy 
WS 




AN \ 




fz 
Up y Uy = Lava Pit 




Island The Lost City 
| 




UY LA MAP 11 
Vf, UY}! Z e 7 
wy YA Side View 
Vi ¥ a 




Wh 4p. fff, q Yo fj, Yf, Wy YY fy YG “iy Vl), Ly, Z 
“UY Low Goa MU MWAEYSD Yi 
LL Lele ae Massel gh he 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMATED e THE LOST City 




tT Eee 




PIS Rah | SNA NC ge Pal Gaal NTN i US) NES at 




> 




a cy 




S| 




\ 
he 




2 SN 
Se 2 
4 < 




Hy 




| 
wm 




ae / 




J OUD oon 
Hy p08 9.0000. 
~ ~ : ti ~ > 




Wo) é 
XP, Di acta OOS § 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTyY 




298 




WZ 




ee | 
“ae aalling 




ay, PCa a7 Pee 
oe wr ‘ge aml pl 




iva Senne 
<> Stone 




Thine 
Stairs 




SWAY fee eee 




h 




u 




MN 




4 
ii 
«@ 
AL 
¢ 




Be 
pa 
fe HA Ne A | RSS 




Sn eaate 




BEDS se eee Oc 4 
eth | Bl Ba ea 




SIS i ‘ : 
A Ea SS 




SSS 




ERAN SQN 
(Vy r 




WSS 
We) 




Wy. 




Ne 
. Mae 




ae 




nie 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City >’ 




Lo 




(299 




. = oo - ' J 9 \ 
~<+ Door Altar | 
-S= Secret Door 




~ & pit JD Stairs - 




THE TEMPLE & 
F ZARGON x 




Va iy 




witht), 




as 
~\ 




a 




13] 2 




ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




; MAP 15 Area uf 
' . STRONGHOLD oF :“5 




‘ y 3)))) Stairs 




-& Door 




Trapdoor 




in floor 




- 
o 
rn 
| 




eee SS SE SS 




“oniGimaL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE Lost city 




Se Es = Se eR Se EI Ps Soe Se 




a ry 




X Te |. 3 


Rai y) CAA ZN q Fire Curtain Ja 
NaN Ne Mowe sul xy Ox. Z 
CL Oe <i : Res a } Scale 
DS . ik Ze 
A ag {DDD Stai 


. airs 


AE wD Q WES 




RSFSR EAL4 «, Hole in 
~* Ceiling 




x ’ We EN: 
[SS ge Wy Ze 
Shee 




Ne 
S %: l 




: X VE 
z/ 




fal) 
SS 




— 




\ 




__| iL 12 + ZA 




Si 




SSIEWAS 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMATED e THE LOST City 




ay 




SEES 




OI 9 




4 LZ ah MAP 17 v | Area M | Z 


_ \STRONGHOLD or ‘USAMIGARAS / 
coon dees 
[[roind Floor 




KDA) 




1 oO) | mame | | 
Senn. 7——" a8 
OF (2 Reeeeee 
Ae ot 
eT Te 
PEACE ere 
ARRAS eee 
a 
Y 




Cs 
a aoa = 
Lower: Level 7 fe | 4 




VAIN IR 




= 


Ki a1 IE = 
mee ton - 
ial 


# 




JESS 




Z 




“tn 
4, 




ERR 




LD) 
ZD) 




oricimar ADVENTURES REincaRMAtED | ° ‘THE Lost city D> < 
SSN Soe = Ee ff \ 4 




aon WV, yr UY 
ty, Z 




MAP 18 Area a 
SISUNGHELE OF acaba K( 




re IN r. ie 
VT Ter hm’ | Secret ‘i = =f 


na ee re ed 


a Lt | _D Trapdoor ‘ 


PT TEL TT te © in Ceiling _ 




HST in 
| 




Ayn, | q 
\\ ; yy 
tell 
| ‘Aa |) 




} 




® Trapdoor * 
in Floor 




| i ®) Statue “ f 
= % 




My 
ie ~~ 




= y 
—S 
Zee 
Z >} 
ZZ 
é 




4 Wa YY olay: 


r > fan i] US Niza 


PPro Per TA bese 
ERM ae 


dee assent s 


Wy, us cies ag SES a € 




ax PA imu Hi Dari ti ait ail 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNMATED e THE LOST City 




MAP 19 AreaQ fy. 
THE EYE OF hy A 
rain accel 




ae 
el Vee 
: | ‘| fF 




AEN 




aie as 
1 A VIN 




{ 




ar Ben 
el 




ame 
faa 
ie 
nen 
Bae. 




BERR gas: SMa a 


ares 2 Ui ett 
[Ree ae ITN 


a ES 3 BES 




ae 
BERSReSa sae: sR 
Saget et ee Plt 
me Biota 
aaa A Ae at 
- tet ee ee 
MAGES | Fe) | AD 
ESBE EPS T ER 




gD | 
eed 
at 




Trapdoor “~ 7 
in FLoor y™%/°. 




reas Pre 2s FS SE ST — eS 




ST EE 




onicinaL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE Lost city , 




SS 




ZZ 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTYy 




GZ Vy \ 5 SUNY WJ ANN) YAN Sr CARES Zap 
We, FV REC NEA NE Piet 
Sa. WAAASS IE Ng Na Vi aS NS NIZZAS 
“MAP 21 AreaT 4% ae 
GIANT »B2n yea 
4 Z Nj ph = Z. Sa SH 
: ans SEL ae d 
ae \ wie 




NS 




| 




ie 




Fi, 0 Ty? | 
sm, 




ys 
AK 
PY TEs 




| 




we 
4; 
Y 
q 




“2 ya ZA) 
Moss 
TEAS — 




W7) 
iy 




Z 




AN 




A ='\ SIN 
IA\ ew gos SA 




ING 
NIA 




CA es ASE 
ani | eee) Ai 


ES a5 ZS s/s 
KUED 5 Alia 




SWE 
ENA 




Bs 




Oe =\ 




CANA 
Ts SS 




K 




NS i] 




Pz. WAAR y qe 
i) = \ : : 
NST IRA 




Ty NN 




TR 




GIA = ZB WA. 5 
VO fed al 




——" 
~ 




8 




Qe 




bas 




——— a 
& 




KS 




= 
TS 




AS 




<7 
Sz \ 
jy FS Nie ie = 3 
Y ess SSeS < Ss Ses Sr 
CSS x E> SSSR 5 
. SS aS 




I 
<j\\ 




et [SS 
— 




SS SS 




— s y 




DO 




} s NS Se ai i p ‘ = - At 
; : Ge es B ANA 
VIN SIN VAL iXd SEL NBN ES Al 




© 




Aw 




7 N \ 
SSNUGRUNGS 




1 PIN FAY 




HN 




WN 




\ 
/ | / 
\ 




SS 




0 
i 
w” 
1°) 
J 
We 
= 
iH 
e 
Q 
wt 
ob 
: 
eZ | 
'< 
S) 
|e 
a 
4 
ia 
wy | 
> 
+ 
ie 
an 
s 
Q 
t 
a 
< 
| 
= 
nh 
10) 




THE GOBLIN CAVES ‘' 4 




Side View of Entrances. 




42 Conveyor 
with Trough 




@ Cave 




ame Pole 




™ 




j The Wa eland a ‘ (| 
Yy BU ea Lh ah ne 
y Level 1 




2) 
3 




= 


® 


Sc 


© 


= 


A) 
ee FSIS 
see ve “Sis 




pe gts 
Ae” ‘~ 




ye 




ji 




{\ 


"| 


\\\ 
A\ 




NANA | 




4 
; x g : ~ \ aij = 
j INS = Till 
b] 




> Sy 
ONG 


\) 


S, a 




VAY 
3 iy 
Pe 




SS 




DN), MAP 24 AreaO 9 ) Ge We 
THE iF OS Ni I an, 
® GOBLIN CAVES {SSS UN OIA Oe NEN a 
Ye M, W/, SS) Nil; \% LN 4 = \ \ 7 < 


af Level 1 J. = A 




AIS) SS 
Aa 
iS 
v 




Ss 
\) 




ONY, 




vw 
Anis 
. IS i 




of RE 
—— 
XK i) 
ds 


—\ 




A 




SS |i KK aX) = RUE, y Le ERE R 
NINE SWAT Re » 


SEE IRONS, 11 SIRE | ee 


3 ee ae Ie Y 




UE 




=10 Feet 




= 
\ 




IRS 
EA 
A 




ill 
li 




iy 




qd) 
diy | 
DTA Zan 
Fag Se! Ui 
NG 4 fe met! 
~ \ Wis 




» 
NH WW 
K SAY 5 \ 
ZG yy, 
a) 




We 




A i ORS exit Bes NWR |S) as 
Gl \ = 




(re 




Val 
ah x 




ASK aS NEN) 




f 




A\Y if 
2 7a TISAI r 
AGS SiR len i] 
“ar yy, aa = 
ZS \\ y “INS K 
WG, NT 




= ‘ Z ; ’ DT PAUitReANGIS 
y Y “a\)" ——fNOHAS P= an 
eis AL alate ie iy AL ce ¢ 
Ha i, a p to’the are " ra , Wi 
at 5 soa ee rH mas : 
| j 




WG 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




Suri . OE, w 2 Ti 
Ko Y '" MAP 25 AreaO 
a s~sTHE GOBLIN CAVES 
> fy a Level 0 




" [| =10 Feet 




“Y 




>| WIR Open’ to 
E UR | | | Levels 1 & 2 i 




pee ol | | | | Re 
Macc 




y 




Y 
1 
y: 
A 
7 >, 


\s> -, 
~ 
Tite 
g SA, 
WA 




» 




> 




Mf: — 
= (8 




IN 
Ley 




<a 
WKS 
LEX RS 
Salen 
INR 




NINAGENS 




OY 




G 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




a 




WTS 




— 




a ', 4 
S dh. J 
AN 




STIG 




Sik 




a 
E 




— 




egy, AM? 
ad 




wy 
A 




neal 




- 
. —S 




TP 




I| an 
0 Ys = 
ES 




a STS ! 
kee eee 




as ; 2h ee 
SR TS re WES 




i 
4) z , > 
-: 


\ a 




Cup Oe sa’ BH 
Secret 4 ym 
Door e Pole ‘by ® PRR 




“ 




SS 




\ tl Xe Wy Ny 




a. 




Dp 




mee Bet a AM, Ze 




ee 




7 




AWS 




INP a 
RNY La Apia 4 
NS A= ’ 


re ON : 




ES 
sul 




MNS pe 




~ 
a\\ Ay 
Be oe ag a Pt ty yt | [Water Conveyor|_| 
Ee aS RRR ARR ae 
ba HES - , te oe . 




ay SF. - 




~ ot 5 
<n” ABE oro at We Hed 
. / TE OT, i, MN Ly, tigi? Lp 




. 
Ua 




> acy Wisma) 




ee 




ee 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e THE LOST City 




a se 
PAE 




As 
i 




HOBG 
ne 




om aN 




5 
* 1E 
: SS 1/ 




wT ==§ 
As Al i= 
i] 




SZ 




= 




ECAR | 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




iY, 
WE pA 
>. “ie 




= 
= 




( ra y 
Zs . ES i\- 
OY Q ZEAL 
Pal WK) NBS eer TT 
a SIN NN, lee 
iy i 




a | Ra a at ee 




i 
l Dy: 
ee Dieter er! 
oo Sy, Vibe i a, 




. TENSES WAS Spx ENE inal Ww 
. AW ‘1 




¢) 




Cm MAP 28 AreaO ~ #ERAQR®Y 
Sig THE HOBGOBLIN~{22 
Ef. STRONGHOLD 245) 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




OSs Y SS \ . 
“ Xe vy SS 
Lat (AN 




S 




2204 OT 




8 a ANS nF 
TT PAA. Set 
ASCE AM} p 
» LP | Jot EZ Yi & 
5 aS 
| A 
"Sy 




pass |: 




| ESDK YS: 
ZOO 
Ae |Z u Vas Ze 




=A 
S\ Cay Y) 
> = 




Ts Gap 
BEN > 




TIN yee 
_| ee it m 




= (NF th\ 4 
Wi 




|| ay, 
= I= PS 
KFS 
TRC SIAIRA 




Sp 


INNES) < 


ZWD ne 
SNS 




JOAGAUOZ Ja}eEM 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e THE LOST City 




WN 
! 




\ i 
v7 age ta 
fs w sed tae 


BL re 


A —3\y 7 [d {Wa | 


v Y) 
ra) jp. 
YL yj 
y, Lar ~y 
» > 




j £1 




MAP 30 CavernA 
The Lower Catacombs 




“Key 




LS Catacomb 




Gq Fungal Forest 
@ Cave Mouth 




| nt 


pay) ib, 
a 
rs 




RNS | tal 
a oe 




Jay 4) ‘i Wy ‘y < V); Ty 
: Son, OES 




THE GLOAM 




3] 
apes (AW HN 
NS Ki 




, Cw 
ie | 
24 <CGi Rana Sso 
ATT Tr ie 
TT TT | eel} $ ria 
{nue S 
|| Fi 




LA 




) 




Ne 




zKel | | PR 
PRAT) RS. | 
al 




an ld 




NPR 




/ 




re 
Ze INN 




A 
i 
Me 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTy 




\\ \ 4 




SS mS IWS — eae mS x SS . 
Se i a <= doce, ers SA 
: ES SLES. Sy x ~ «< Ce Wis = Ni 
Ss Sas RAY XS orien 
ik ane ee WK a. . 2 : " q 
: - SA - oa WY 
" BS “é ix a ae 




q us2any TE dVW 




7 x De z 




js 
SQUuIOIDIDD 4aM07T ay] 




77) 




Quiodeye) 
ee ay 




$s 
% 




4 . 
7 SS) 
A 




SYS, ae ag 




7 ZASS 




AY) 




Ye. 
pg 
aM 




—=s, 




7) 
) 
= 
cS) 
of 




\ 
=)\ 
A\ 
\ 




Lio 


— 


es) 


= 


rm 
| ” 
S) 


z 


Sos 




MSIL Ge 
ees A ff, : 
WANS y. 




\ 




= 
= 
© 
EG 
ye. 
g © 
— 
= Qu. 
o 
al 
B 




‘ 
é 
> i. 
sallix 
v us 
WY 
\ 




S 
‘oe . 
WURAING _{] | DS); 
> qj = 
4 i/s ee nH) 
Bey st |e oS 
» <— 
\ 
: a 
ie Sy\ A 
oN \\ 
Nee 
ois 
a 
aS > i 




ona 




y 
y 




Sines 
Ree 
22 ea 


br | 


i 
Wee 




=i 




Y/ 




es 
Rta 
pte” 




| an gual 
ay 
£\ 




iNT 




W 
5 




S 
q 




« LRA 




SA . 
ei 
¢ 
% 
AY 
CJ —_ 




y s' 


ES | iS; 
UIE! Sy yy = . 
Sine Tl SS \\= 




aie eee 


NINOS) ds WA 


TARTS ESN \ 
Se 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST City 




squioznjoD 4amo7 ayy 
qd ¥saany €€ dVN 




\) 




wr 




= 
ty aris 




Bese ei 
Shae 




nee 
wel x 




Bh “TP BD, 
f \ if < 
; Cave “Aly ae AVE 
XN The Lower Catacombs Al d 3 
4% ‘ ff 7) ey; ‘ \ SS vs 
THE DRAGON’S 47 f# rah BS | st a i 
. ‘GINIE = g 'p to e | UN: a x oy 
« DOMAIN MNS: 7 SIS IEE, 
a ee 1 UR scan «fe lie 
I | Y 1 act 




G on AS 
VIL 277 




SI Ee 
SACS. 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e THE LOST City 




—_/ 
\ 
Re 




= a 
S 




ow 




BE je fis 
tty g 




SSN 




Ny) . 




eh bed Me 




ert a x eS Are 




; ike [My 
im im x a 6 S 
hee i a 
poeceral | fo | Je 




OGL 
LS 7 i 




(Ze, 




DST ODS a 




<5 
D 




TX ae TR Stairs Carved|. 
Ppper, Level FAKE North ~ : Into Surface |~ 




POLED 




ae 




Wt 




ower Le 




S| i <a} 
oo 


bay had 2 ial 
\ i ee a4 




= z o 2 




aS s 




ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e THE LOST CiTy 




Dungeon Module B4 
The Lost City 




by Tom Moldvay 




AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3 




a 




2a / * / 
' ORE £ : We 
‘ ~ hen = > | iN Te 
YS <9) A : 
TELS Yee Be 2 Te 
‘om (VIN BW 
: se? N z Ai} Wal vw? —— a } “, SS 
ae \ y 5 ea awa \\) 
¥ —< ‘ : - \ j 4 
ee es \ . > 2 | 72 e@ WY 
SS % \ : = | 
ee \ \ | : 
h ta N oo 
s A 
i\——— 
b 
-_- 
- =. 
= be 
“ 
= r > 
li 
LS 
he mon 
Pe 
~ as bt 
Aa f 




Lost in the desert! The only hope for survival lies in a ruined city rising out of the sans. Food, water, and wealth await heroic 
adventurers inside an ancient pyramid ruled by a strange race of masked beings. 




This module includes a cover folder with maps, anda descriptive booklet with a ready-made adventure for the 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® BASIC game. It also includes enough information to continue the adventure beyond level 3,using 




the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Expert game rules. 




PRINTED IN U.S.A 




© 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




TSR Hobbies, Inc. 
POB 756 




Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 




JS 




The GameWizards 
~All Rights Reserved 




TSR Hobbies, (UK) Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CBI4AD 
United Kingdom 




9049 




This item is only one of the many popular playing aids for DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Fantasy Adventure Game produced by 
TSR Hobbies, Inc. Other playing aids for the D&D® game system currently include: 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Basic Set (contains everything DMs and players need to get started, detailing character creation, 
spells, and dungeon levels 1-3). 




DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Expert Set (designed to be used with the Basic Set, the Expert Set covers higher-level 
characters, deeper dungeon levels, and adventures in wilderness areas). 




Dungeon Module B1 (In Search of the Unknown) 


Dungeon Module B2 (The Keep on the Borderlands) 


Dungeon Module B3 (Palace of the Silver Princess) 


Dungeon Module X1 (The Isle of Dread) 


Dungeon Module X2 (Castle Amber - Chateau d’ Amberville) 


Monster and Treasure Assortment, Sets One to Three Levels One Through Nine (makes the job of stocking dungeon levels easy) 


Dungeon Geomorphs (allows the DM to create thousands of different dungeon levels by arranging the geomorphs in different 
combinations) 


D&D Player Character Record Sheets (allows players to record all important information about their characters in any 
easy-to-use format). 




Releases of additional items relating to the D&D game system are planned for the future. TSR Hobbies publishes a complete line 
of games, playing aids, and gaming accessories available from better hobby, game, and department stores nationwide. 




ISBN 0-935696-55-5 DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks of TSR Hobbies, Inc. 394-52498-5TSRO550 




THE LOST CITY 
A MINI-CAMPAIGN THAT TAKES CHARACTERS FROM LEVEL 1 TO 7 




Lost in the sweeping dunes of an expansive desert! Your band, separated from its caravan during a sand- 
storm, stumbles upon the ancient ruins of a city, mostly buried in the sands. One of the structures, a prom- 
inent step pyramid, juts above the sandy wastes, beckoning for exploration. There must be untold riches 
secluded inside its dusty halls and crypts. But, more importantly, you desperately hope there is water, food, 
and relief from the unrelenting sun to be found therein. For without those basic necessities, your band will 
succumb not to some fell beast, but this harsh environment instead. Onward, as all heroes wish to meet 
their end while swinging a sword or unleashing arcane magic! 




So, check your weapons, adjust your armor, and inventory your precious remaining food and water sup- 
plies. High adventure awaits in the underground chambers and tiers of a pyramid covered by the sands of 
time. But what of the peculiar masked humans who rule the upper levels of the pyramid? And what of the 
dark master that rules these humans from the lower levels of the forsaken halls? An adventure inspired by 
the classic pulp stories such as Robert E. Howard’s famous Conan story Red Nails.... 




This tome is an homage to the original dungeon crawl and sandbox setting first explored decades ago as B4: 
The Lost City. Herein, you will find high-quality scans of the original Basic edition adventure module, plus 
commentary by a variety of gaming luminaries. This includes an interview with Harold Johnson, the mod- 
ule’s original developer, who also discusses his work on playtesting, Dragonlance, and other TSR titles. Also, 
herein is a full fifth edition conversion of the original adventure as well as brand new additional dungeons, 
such as the fully developed lower pyramid, additional details on the Lost City itself, and the dreaded Low- 
er Catacombs. Although converted for the most recent edition, this material is presented in a distinct early 
1980s style, tone, and presentation. This is the perfect setting for a fully playable fifth edition mini-campaign, 
starting at 1st level and reaching all the way up 7th level or beyond. 




Original Adventures 
Reincarnated 




$49.99 GMG50004