Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09152 I 7 Baltron's Beacon"
See other formats
Adventure for 5-10 Characters, Levels 4-8 


9152 



Advanced 

Dungeons0|)ra3ons 


Official Game Adventure 


Baltron's Beacon 

Philip Meyers 






TSR, me. 

PRODUCTS O' YOU* 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. AD&D. PROCKJCTS OF YO<IR IMAGIh ATION. and the; TRR logo are 
rradcmarM* owned toy TAR Inc 







* 19S3TSR. Ik. All Ri^n* RhueiimI. PiinUd In H.6.A. 


MAP 1 


Scale: 20 feet per hex 




Swamp 



Solid ground 



Pond'stroani 




Partial wall 



Bridge 


























































MAP 2: GATEHOUSE 


Scale: 5 feet per square 


1 


- ¦" 

i 

1 


i 

1 

1 i 

i 

r< 

QK 

! 

• I 

i 

T 

1 

L a 

J 

i 

- J 



~ -i 

i 

T 

1 

; 

1 

; 

1 

1 

: G9 

1 

1 

i 

1 

1 

a 

r 

_ j 


ROOF 




MAP 3: THE KEEP 



SECOND FLOOR 











% 

C 





i _ 









T 

o 

T 











C 

>33 

J T 

'G 


A 


E 


7 

- 

- 

- 

F 





R 


_ 

LJ 





n 

nn 

rn 





W 



E 


Scale: 5 feet per square 



FOURTH FLOOR & ROOF 



Key 

EEE3 

E3 

cm 



j ww j 

m 

E51 


f* 

Si 


M 

Sc 


Door 

Serret door 
Trap door 
Portcidlis 
Crenelated I 
Rubble 
Arrow silts 
Stairs (dire* 
Capstan an" 
Curtain 

Statue 
Cell bars 
Special feat 


FIRST FLOOR 








































































































































































































MAP 4: DUNGEON LEVEL ONE 

Scale: 5 feel per square 



MAP 5: DUNGEON LEVEL TWO 

Scale: 10 feet per square 




H 




:iel door or panel 
p dour 
tcullis 

nelaled battlement 
ible 

OTV silts 

Ira (direction of arrmv) 
star and winch 
tala 

tue 











bars 


dal features (see text) 




(•) 




O 



LO 

r 

l 

2 

9 


(•) 

1 ABC D E F G| 










27 











26 


W 


N 


Q 



















































































































































Advanced 

DungeonsjJipragons 

OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE 


For 5-10 Characters, Levels 4-8 



Baltron' s Beacon 


by Philip Meyers 


CREDITS 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Development: FrankMentzer 
Editing: Frank Mentzer and Barbara Deer 
Cover Art: Larry Elmore 
Illustrations: lames Roslof 
Cartography: David C. Sutherland HI 
Typesetting: Betty Elmore and KimLindau 
Special Thanks: Steve Bill 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Ran 
dom House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House ofCan- 
ada. Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by 
regional distributers. Distributed in the United Kingdom 
by TSR UK Ltd. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, 
FIEND FOLIO, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, 
and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR Inc. 

" Copyright 1985 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

This product is protected under the copyright laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other unau 
thorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR 


TSR Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, CainbridgeCB14AD 

WI53147 United Kingdom 



TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION(tm) 


NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

Before the Adventure . 

Background. 

Encounters. 

Preparing for the Adventure . 

New Monsters . 

PROLOGUE . 

Start . 

THE SWAMP . 

THE BEACON . 

ENCOUNTER KEYS . 

Map #1: Outer Areas and Yard . 

Map #2: The Gatehouse . 

Map #3: The Keep . 

Map #4: Dungeon Level One. 

Map #5: Dungeon Level Two. 

EPILOGUE. 

PULLOUT SECTIONS 

Random Encounter . 

Illustrations #1 and #2 . 

Players' Map . 

Graph Paper . 

Pregenerated Characters . 

Illustrations #3 and #4 . 

Illustrations #5 and #6 . 

MAPS 

Map #1: Outer Area and Yard . 

Map #2: The Gatehouse . 

Map #3: The Keep. 

Map #4: Dungeon Level One . 

Map #5: Dungeon Level Two . 

Demetrios' Scroll. 

Players' Map . 


2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

. 4 

5 

6 
6 

7 

7 

8 
10 
23 
25 

32 


. 13 

.14 

. 15 

. 16 

. 17 

. 19 

. 20 

. inside cover 
. inside cover 
. inside cover 
. inside cover 
. inside cover 
outside cover 
. 15 


Printed in the U.S.A. 

0-88038-237-6 

ISBN 394-54876-OTSR0600 


9152 


































Notes for the 
Dungeon Master 



Before the Adventure 

Baltron's Beacon is designed for play by 5- 
10 characters of fourth to eighth level of expe 
rience. The party should include several 
strong fighters, at least one magic-user of fifth 
level or higher, and one or more elves. A party 
of pregenerated adventurers has been pro 
vided for use if desired. As Dungeon Master 
(DM), you may use Baltron's Beacon in any 
campaign or world setting you choose. 

Read the adventure carefully before run 
ning it for the players. Study the maps while 
reading the area descriptions. Important 
encounters are indicated by numbers on the 
maps which match the numbered area 
descriptions. Read the boxed information to 
the players. Do not read unboxed information 
aloud; it is for your use in guiding the charac 
ters through the adventure. You must decide 
how much of the unboxed information to 
reveal to the players, and when. 

The following abbreviations are used in this 
adventure: 


c 

= 

Cleric 

d 

= 

die 

F 

= 

Fighter 

XP 

= 

Experience 






Points 

MU 

= 

Magic-User 

PP 

= 

platinum 






piece 

T 

= 

Thief 

SP 

= 

gold piece 

AC 

= 

Armor Class 

ep 

= 

electrum 






piece 

MV 

= 

Movement 






rate 

sp 

= 

silver piece 

HD 

= 

Hit Dice 

cp 

= 

copper piece 

MR 

= 

Magic 






Resistance 

AL 

= 

Alignment 

hp 

= 

hit points 

L 

= 

Lawful 

#AT 

= 

number of 






Attacks 

N 

= 

Neutral 

SA 

= 

Special 

C 

= 

Chaotic 



Attacks 




SD 

= 

Special 






Defenses 

G 

= 

Good 

Dmg 

= 

Damage 

E 

=Evil 

S 

= 

Strength 

D 

= 

Dexterity 

I 

= 

Intelligence 

Co 

= 

Constitution 

w 

= 

Wisdom 

Ch 

= 

Charisma 


Background 

A strangely delivered advertisement draws 
the characters to an odd sage named Deme- 
trios. He needs a rare component to create a 
new but desperately needed potion. To 
accomplish this, however, the party must first 
go to a castle ruin in the middle of a large 
swamp, and then find a substance known only 
as "black flame." 

A 16th level magic-user named Baltron is 
said to have gone to this deserted tower about 


a year ago, and claimed it as his own. After 
rousting the creatures that had infested the 
place, he set about a great summoning of the 
legendary Nakimas, the great elemental spirit 
of the marsh. The spell failed disastrously, 
destroying Baltron and parts of the keep and 
its outer defenses. Now a powerful green light 
shines blindingly from the remains of 
Baltron's workroom, an impressive reminder 
of his failure. This light is now an object of 
worship to the denizens of the swamp, includ 
ing several thousand lizard men. 

But some do not hold the eerie beacon in 
such awe. The tower is currently inhabited by 
Leptor, an eighth level chaotic evil magic-user, 
formerly Baltron's apprentice. When the bea 
con appeared, Leptor knew that some power 
ful magic had failed and started at once on the 
perilous journey through the swamp. He was 
not motivated by love for his teacher nor by 
hope of coming to his aid. Rumors said that 
Baltron had perished, and Leptor was eager to 
glean the remnants of powerful magicks 
denied him by his former master-along with 
Baltron's not insignificant hoard of treasure. 

Leptor is accompanied by his assistant, 
Virna. For safety, Leptor hired the services of 
the renegade Antarcus (a former ranger) and 
his henchmen, using what small funds he had 
as advance payment and hoping to find suffic 
ient treasure in the keep to settle the bill. 
Unfortunately, Leptor has not succeeded in 
locating Baltron's secret treasury, and Antar 
cus' patience is wearing thin. 

Leptor's success in rousting the many foul 
residents of the keep has not yet equalled 
Baltron's. Leptor holds a mere section of the 
place, and the monsters who overrun the rest 
serve to insulate him from Antarcus and his 
band, who use the gatehouse as a base of oper 
ations. These mercenaries are reluctant to 
leave without their pay, so they allow Leptor to 
continue his search of the tower. But they also 
make sure that he does not try to leave. 

Encounters 

When the party finally nears the keep, refer 
to Map #1 (Area overview). As the characters 
approach a numbered area, describe it using 
the map and information given in the text. 

When the party's location can be found on 
Map #1, roil ld6 each 3 turns to check for ran 
dom encounters. If the result is 1 or 2, roll 
IdlOO, and refer to your "Yard and Keep 
Encounters" chart (page 13) to determine the 
type of creature. Make an extra check for any 
turn in which the party produces loud or unu 
sual noises (including the sounds of battle). 

The entries for placed encounters in the 
outer areas and the yard of the keep have an 
"A" prefix. Areas within the gatehouse (A9) 
are described in detail, each with a "G" pre 


fix, and are illustrated on Map #2. The 
remaining encounters-in the keep itself and 
the two dungeon levels below-have no letter 
prefix, all being numbered in sequential 
order. These areas are illustrated on Maps #3, 
#4, and #5. 

Standard chances of surprise should be 
checked in each encounter, rolling ld6 for 
each side, unless the encounter description 
gives other instructions. 

Whenever human or demi-human NPCs 
are detailed, examine their ability scores care 
fully to determine hit roll bonuses (if any). 
Damage ranges given include all Strength and 
magic bonuses. 

Preparing For The Adventure 

Before starting, you should become famil 
iar with the primary opponents. These oppo 
nents and where they are located include: 
King Yiss and his followers and allies (Swamp 
and several other areas), Antarcus (area G8) 
and his henchmen (G6), Leptor and Virna 
(area 10), and a special guardian (area 35). 

If the players use their own characters, and 
if these characters are at separate locations in 
your campaign world, you have two options to 
bring them together. You may either create 
different preliminary adventures for each 
group or individual, or maneuver the charac 
ters into a single group by some means. The 
arrival of the scroll-advertisement occurs in 
either case, leading to this adventure. Modify 
the following boxed text accordingly, if 
needed, to suit your campaign and prefer 
ence. 

Carefully remove pages 13-20 from this 
booklet. They form two sheets of paper, of 
four pages apiece. Cut or tear the center sheet 
in two, so that the characters (pages 17-18) 
and the map and graph paper (pages 15-16) 
are on separate sheets. 

If the players want to use the pregenerated 
characters, give them pages 17-18. They 
should transfer the information to standard 
character sheets, and add other details from 
the Players' Handbook as needed. If the play 
ers use their own characters, you may add 
these characters to your existing stock of 
NPCs. Be sure to review their equipment first, 
adding or deleting items to match other NPCs 
of comparable level in your game world. Do 
not give out the Players' Map at this time. 

The scroll illustrated on the adventure cover 
will soon be needed. If you are using the cover 
as a DM screen, keep that panel folded in and 
unseen by the players. 


2 













Neyv Monsters 


New Monsters 

In most TSR adventures, new monster descrip 
tions are placed at the end, in an appendix. After 
you run this adventure, please write to TSR and 
tell us which you prefer-descriptions here, in 
the DM notes, or at the end. 

VAMPIRE MIST 

FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1-3 
ARMOR CLASS: 4 (8) 

MOVE: 12 "(6" after feeding) 

HIT DICE: 3 
% IN LAIR: 60% 

TREASURE TYPE: E 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-8 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
INTELLIGENCE: Average 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral evil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/Nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: IV/280 + 3 per hp 


VITRIOLUS 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 
NO. APPEARING: 10-100 or 100-1,000 
ARMOR CLASS: 8 
MOVE: 6" 

HIT DICE: 1/2 
% IN LAIR: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: I 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: See below 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Exploding 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
INTELLIGENCE: Non- 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral (Chaotic) 

SIZE: S (3' tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/Nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: 11/32 + 1 per hp 

Vitrioli are enchanted monsters native to the 
Para-elemental Plane of Ooze. They do not 
respond to conjurations by any known spell, but 
can be summoned by use of a special liquid. 
Though anyone can use the liquid, only its crea 
tor can command the vitrioli only when they first 
appear. 

Vitrioli appear on the Prime Plane as tiny faceless 
humanoids that appear to be made of sand. They 
glow with a dim green light. Excitable even on their 
home plane, they become enraged when drawn 
from it, attacking any living thing they see, except 
each other. All details here apply only to their Prime 
Plane forms, as they have thus far eluded close 
observation in their native environment. 



The vampire mist is related to the crimson 
death, and is suspected to be the immature form 
of that horror. It appears as a pale cloud, nor 
mally 5-8 feet in diameter but variable in size 
and density. It is encountered only in bogs, 
swamps, and similar chill and damp places, 
including dank subterranean areas. 

Healthy vampire mists have maximum hit 
points (8 per die), but are almost never encoun 
tered in this state. A 'mist loses 1 hp for each 12 
hours without feeding, and is thus always hungry 
when encountered wandering. It regains hit 
points by enveloping its victim with its gaseous 
tendrils, and draining the victim's fluids, turn 
ing a pink hue after feeding. The 'mist regains 1 
hit point for each 2 points of blood drained, but 
this is not regeneration. 

Though this is the 'mist's primary reason for 
attacking, it is quite capable of defending itself 
even when fully sated. The slightest touch of its 
airy tendril inflicts 1-8 points of damage, drain 
ing blood that the monster simply discards. 

Non-magical protections are usually of no 
value against the 'mist's attacks. Character types 
are thus treated as base AC 10. modified only by 
Dexterity and magical protections (shields hav 
ing no effect). 


If the 'mist's hit roll is 4 or greater than the 
minimum needed, its enveloping attempt is suc 
cessful. No further hit rolls are needed; the 'mist 
automatically inflicts ld8 points of damage each 
round thereafter until it flees or is slain. If the 
'mist is struck while its victim is enveloped, the 
damage from the blow is divided evenly between 
the victim and the 'mist. An enveloped victim 
may attack the mist physically, without risk of 
sharing the damage. However, the enveloping 
damage is constant, disrupting concentration, 
and thus preventing the victim's use of spells and 
most magical devices. 

A 'mist can normally be damaged only by 
magical weapons and spells that affect air, 
including lightning and magic missile spells. 
After feeding, however, the monster takes on 
substance; it slows to 6'' rate, its Armor Class 
drops to 8, and it can then be damaged by nor 
mal weapons. 



A Vitriolus explodes when hit or when it hits 
an opponent. The explosion has a 5-foot radius, 
and produces both fire and acid damage. Each 
victim in the area must make two Saving Throws 
vs. Breath Weapon. The fire damage is ld8 
points plus the original hit points of the Vitriolus. 
The acid damage is 2d4 points. A successful sav 
ing throw reduces damage to one-half in each 
case. Failure of either saving throw requires fur 
ther saving throws for items carried. The explo 
sion can also cause structural damage: 1 point to 
wood, l h point to metal, but no damage to earth 
or stone. The Vitriolus is immune to fire and 
acid-based attacks. It loses 1 hit point per 6 hours 
spent away from its home plane, disintegrating 
when reaching 0 hit points. 

Vitrioliquid: A cleric may create a vial of this 
rare fluid by combining three types of acid, 
swamp water, and graveyard soil in the proper 
proportions. The following spells must be cast on 
the mixture, in this order: light, flame strike, 
animate object, command, implore, and quest. 
Some knowledge of the Para-elemental Plane of 
Ooze is also required. There is a 30% chance that 
the finished liquid suddenly and permanently 
drains 1 point of Constitution from the caster, 
probably because of some force emanating from 
the monsters' home plane. Such damage cannot 
be avoided except by chance, though it can be 
repaired in the usual ways. 

Vitrioliquid is always kept in a glass vial, for 
glass is the only known substance through which 
the liquid cannot eat. If the entire potion is 
poured out or the vial broken on earth or stone. 


10-100 vitrioli appear from the spot at the rate of 
one each two segments (5 per round). If only part 
of the liquid is used, the number of creatures 
appearing is proportionately fewer. If the liquid 
is poured into a swamp or other mixture of water 
and abundant plant life, the number of creatures 
summoned is greater by tenfold (100-1.000), as 
the rich muck beneath the water somehow 
enhances the effect. If the liquid is poured out 
onto any other substance except glass, it eats its 
way through and continues downward until it 
reaches stone or earth. 

A sip of vitrioliquid causes 1-6 points of dam 
age; drinking more than a sip is extremely dan 
gerous. The foolish imbiber must roll ld20; a 
result of 1-19 indicates death (immediate reduc 
tion to -20 hit points), and a result of 20 means 
that the victim survives the experience but with 
only 1-4 hit points remaining. This effect super 
cedes and negates the usual effects of the liquid; 
no creatures are summoned, and the liquid does 
not eat its way out of the victim. 



3 














A 

J. \.t the appropriate time, read the 
following boxed section aloud to the players: 


You are walking from your lodgings to the 
local tavern when, without warning, some 
thing soft and light drops from the sky and 
lands on your head with a "plop." You 
look up to see a crow 10 feet overhead. If 
crows could smile, you'd swear he looks 
very pleased with himself. 

Reluctantly, you raise your hand to feel 
the top of your head. To your surprise, it is 
dry. The crow laughs raucously and turns 
off toward the east. Looking down, you 
notice a rolled parchment tied with a stout 
cord. Picking it up, you break the string 
and read it. 


Reveal the scroll illustration on the adven 
ture cover to the players. You may copy, roll, 
and tie it beforehand, if you wish. 

Give the players a few minutes to discuss 
the message and decide how to proceed. Of 
course, if they decline the opportunity, this 
adventure does not occur. You may need to 
drop unsubtle hints to that effect. 

If the characters ask townspeople how to 
reach Labalna, they are told that it is "off to 
the southwest" (or whatever direction suits 
your campaign). You may extend this section 
by adding encounters along the way if 
desired. 

If the characters have never adventured 
together before, they should meet on the road 
to Labalna or when they reach Demetrios's 
dwelling. If the former occurs, an amusing 
encounter might result if you ask for surprise 
rolls, separate the players, and carefully 
describe the "monsters" each has encoun 
tered (meaning, of course, the other PCs). If 
so, try to steer the action away from immedi 
ate combat with high chances of lethality, as 
this could seriously interfere with future party 
cooperation. 

If they travel separately, some characters 
may reach the old sage's house before others. 
This would be a good time for introductions, 
and an astute player might take the first steps 
toward assembling an adventuring party. This 
may in turn produce a natural party leader, or 
it may lead to some rivalry or jealousy. In any 
event, Demetrios does not answer the door in 
haste-perhaps not for hours, as he is quite 
arbitrary at times. 

Demetrios' house is typically secure, lack 
ing windows but having a broad and inviting 
front porch. Its only adornment is an ornately- 
carved padded rocking chair. If any character 
sits in it, however, the chair starts rocking ofits 
own accord. The character cannot rise volun 
tarily, and the rocker's speed increases rather 
quickly, until the trespasser is suddenly and 


forcibly ejected from it, taking 1 point of 
damage in the process. The rocker then slowly 
comes to a stop. 

In the middle of some PC conversation, 
preferably just before tempers start to boil 
over, the door opens and the ancient sage 
steps out onto the covered porch. Read the 
following to the players: 


"Welcome! Welcome, brave adventurers. 
By the look of you, I see you have traveled 
a great distance to seek employment. Ah! I 
see you have one of my advertisements. 
Who would have thought those ravens 
could travel so far? I did want my notices 
spread about, you see, and as Crackle and 
his flock were willing to work for chicken 
feed. 

"Enough. I know you haven't come all 
this way to listen to the rambling s of old 
Demetrios. It was the gold - eh?-the 
gold that caught your fancy. I mentioned it 
in my flyer - Ho. ho, flyer,..ravens with 
notices...heh, heh! That's funny, yes? 
Well, ahem, I see yourpatience is strained 
just now, and as you have come so far, and 
as no one else has shown up, well, we 
should get right to the heart of it, eh? 
Eh?" 


The adventurers may become impatient 
and want to ask Demetrios questions about 
the job, particularly about their payment and 
the risks involved. Demetrios absent- 
mindedly relates the following information, 
but he should get around to answering their 
questions eventually. When portraying 
Demetrios, remember that the wizened sage is 
not as doddering and senile as he seems, and 
that he is exceedingly fond of puns. 

Demetrios comes out, locks his door, and 
teeters over to his rocking chair, which accom 
odates him peacefully. He will not explain any 
earlier misbehavior. He invites the group to be 
seated, although there are no chairs other 
than the rocker, and none are provided, even 
on specific request. 

You may relate as much ofDemetrios's story 
as you feel the players should know. It is more 
in the spirit of the game to make them work 
for the information by asking questions than 
to read it to them in a long narrative. 

"Is one of you perhaps a student of 
metaphysics or theology? Oh, too bad. Ido so 
love a rousing discussion. I have spent my life 
studying minor deities, their followers, and 
why some men are attracted to one, some to 
another. Interesting study, to be sure, to an 
old gray beard like me, but not terribly practi 
cal to such folk as yourselves, I'm sure, eh? 
Eh? Or is it? No? Well, then. 


"About a halfyear ago, news came to me 
from the south. Horribly disturbing news. 
Ah, but you are strangers here and don't 
know our history. Just have patience a bit 
longer. All this is really quite important. 

"Perhaps a hundredyears ago, the evil Cult 
of...I hesitate even now to speak the name 
aloud...it was in Arthemene's day when they 
arrived, led by their high priest, Ohjos. Ah, 
but you must have it all if you are to know 
what you face. Ohjos sought leave for his fol 
lowers to build a tower on a small hill amidst 
the vast, trackless swamp that lies to the east. 
No one knew, then, why they desired to settle 
in such a desolate place. Nor did we know 
then what evil rites they practiced there undis 
turbed. 

"But several of our youths, who were drawn 
to the cult out of curiosity or boredom, 
escaped to tell of the terrible black name. This 
flame, when touched to a living creature, 
burns cold and drains the victim's life force. 
Worse still, once the flames begin to burn 
upon a victim, no normal means can extin 
guishing them. 

"Boazor, our lord's youngest son, was one 
of the youths drawn to the Cult of the Black 
Flame. He was not so fortunate as the other 
disillusioned ones. The boys who escaped told 
a horrible tale of how he was consumed by the 
black flame that does not burn, rolling and 
writhing upon the ground until only an 
empty husk was left, with not a mark on him. 
Ohjos laughed, the boys said, and bade them 
heed the example of what happens to those 
who break faith. 

"But Ohjos had gone too far. Two of the 
bravest boys managed to slip away while all 
the congregation were gathered for some 
despicable ritual. When our lord heard their 
tale, he gathered his fighting men and called 
for all his vassals to send troops. Soon, a great 
army gathered on the plain below the lord's 
stronghold. The common people came too, 
bearing pitchforks, scythes, whatever they 
owned that would serve as weapons. For they 
had also lost sons. 

"They all marched off through the 
swamp-a force so large that even Yiss the 
Old, whose domain it is, feared to confront 
them. But Ohjos must have received warning, 
for when they arrived, the tower and its sur 
roundings were abandoned. They must have 
used some arcane knowledge to make good 
their escape so thoroughly. The rooms were 
stripped bare, and nothing of value was found 
there. Nothing except three boys of the vil 
lage, drained and lifeless. A warning, some 
said, not to pursue Ohjos and his minions. 

"One of those boys was Enrix, my own son. 
My only son. My dear, poor Enrix. 


4 















"Well, onward. Since that day I have stud- pie of the Flame, in that long-deserted tower gossip. Only 
take the seeds to the tower, roast 

ied all I can learn about the Cult of the Black in the swamp. Our army never found the tern- them in the 
black flames, and return them to 

Flame. But they seemed to disappear without pie, and none from the village have gone back me. There 
is sure to be gold for you if you can 

a trace. No word of them was heard until just a there since. It is an accursed place. find the cult's secret 
temple; they cannot have 

month ago. In my long life I have traveled "Someone has been living there, though, carted it all off in 
their haste. And Baltron, it 

only a few miles from this little village, but and recently. A powerful magic-user named is said, could 
have paid any amount for ser- 

news comes to me. The sage Orimaxes, who Baltron took up residence about a year ago. vants had he 
found some willing to follow 

lives far to the south, knew of my interest in His purpose was to conduct some arcane him. His treasure 
is doubtless still in the 

the Cult of the Black Flame and sent word that research in an out-of-the-way place with a tower. 

it has surfaced again in his country. The new damp, boggy environment. He passed "Your road lies to the 
east through the great 

high priest is not content to use the black through our village, discovered he could not swamp. You 
cannot fail to find your way; the 

flames to control his own followers only. He hire porters or servants to live in that place for beacon will 
guide you by night. Go now, and 

has found a way to use them as a weapon and any amount of gold, and left immediately. He swiftly 
return. My prayers will be with you, 

has begun to gain power in the land, leaving has not been seen or heard from since. brave adventurers." 

only the empty shells of those who dare "Several months later, an eerie green light 

oppose him. appeared in the marsh, shining upward from START 

"For many long years I have feared they the old tower and disappearing into the sky. Once the preceding 
information has been 

would come again. Now Orimaxes, the friend Ah, I see by your sidelong looks that you have revealed, 
the stage is set, and the adventure 

of my youth, has begged my help, and for that seen it as you approached our village, eh ? Eh ? can 
begin. Allow the PCs to buy more equip- 

1 need you. You could hardly have missed it. It is visible ment in the village if they wish. When the 

"I have developed a formula for a potion for miles, particularly at night. No one knows characters arc 
ready, they set forth on the jour- 

that can extinguish the black flames! But the what happened to Baltron, but I sometimes ney. Tell the 
players that accurate directions 

potion is useless without one ingredient: speak with those living nearer the marsh, and have been 
obtained, and specific details are 

ferlow seeds roasted in the source of the black they say that the lizard men of the swamp wor- not 
necessary. A detailed map of the swamp is 

flames. Here is a small bag of them. The ship the green light. not included. You may, of course, draw up 
the 

potion does not require many. I think that one "Rumors abound among the common folk, area before 
the adventure begins, to extend 

source of the black flames lies within the Tern- of course, but I shan't bore you with baseless the scope 
of the adventure even further. 


5 

















reach the tower, the party must 
first journey 30 miles from the nearest habita 
tion and then pass through 20 miles of a vast 
swamp. Several thousand lizard men inhabit 
an area of 100 square miles surrounding the 
tower. Their king. Yiss the Old, is allied with 
a powerful pan lung (oriental dragon) also 
here. 

The water depth in the swamp varies from 1 
foot at high ground to almost 20 feet where 
numerous small rivers run through the mire. 
The party can wade through the swamp, 
avoiding deep areas, at a rate of 5 miles per 
day. By poling a raft or barge, the party can 
advance 15 miles per day, traveling for 12 
hours and resting for 12 hours. If the travel 
period is during the day, there is a 50 % chance 
of becoming lost in the trackless swamp (or 
10% if a ranger is present). But the party can 
not become lost at night, unless the fog is very 
thick, because the green light is always visible 
in the distance to guide them. 

At 1 mile from the keep, a roadway may be 
discovered. Refer to area Al. 

Random Encounters 

The party may have encounters during the 
trek through the swamp. Roll ld6 for each 12 
hours of travel, a result of 1-3 indicating an 
encounter. When the party is within 10 miles 
of the tower, increase the frequency of checks 
to one per 6 hours, but decrease the chance to 
1-2 (on ld6). If an encounter occurs more 
than 10 miles from the tower, you may use the 
encounters given in the Dungeon Masters 
Guide for uninhabited sub-tropical marsh 
(page 184). Nearer the tower, use the random 
encounter chart provided here (page 13, on 
the front of your pullout section). 

A small party of adventurers is not likely to 
cause the reptilian forces of King Yiss to 
mobilize. Small bands of lizard men encoun 
tered are usually unfriendly (-20% penalty to 
reaction rolls), but proper and apologetic 
character actions might keep the affair to mere 
insults, avoiding combat. 

The following PC actions are those most 
likely to provoke a mass attack by the lizard 
men: 

Interference with the green light (now a 
holy symbol, of sorts) 

Entering the marsh with a force of 100 or 
more creatures 

Slaying King Yiss, the pan lung, or 100 or 
more lizard men 

If the lizard men do mobilize to repulse 
invaders, the pan lung usually aids them at 
Yiss's request. Note, however, that the lizard 
men are primitive and not well organized. King 
Yiss can summon 500 lizard men in a few hours, 
and 2,000 in one day. If the pan lung joins the 


attack, it uses its scaly command power to bring 
2-12 giant lizards, 1-8 minotaur lizards, 3-24 
crocodiles, and one giant crocodile. If Antarcus 
and his band (Gatehouse encounter key, areas 
G6 and G8) notice the fight, they will aid the 
lizard men, for Antarcus is on good terms with 
King Yiss. There is also a 75% chance of 2-12 
trolls joining the attack in hopes of gaining fresh 
meat. They are not exactly friends of the lizard 
men, but their aid will surely not be rejected. 
The lizard men attempt to surround the party 
and fight fanatically until two-thirds of their 
number have been slain; only then do they 
check Morale. 

If the characters are attacked by an army of 
lizard men and then enter the keep for refuge, 
King Yiss lays siege to the place. One hundred 
additional lizard men join the attack each day 
the siege lasts, to a maximum of 3,000 lizard 
men. The appearance of large numbers of 
vitrioli (see new monsters) would immediately 
cause the attackers to rout, but King Yiss can 
rally his forces by the next day. If King Yiss is 
killed, the lizard men go berserk and attack 
without regard to the consequences. 

Yiss, lizard king: AC 3; MV 157/12"; HD 8; 
hp 51; #AT 1; Dmg 5-20; SA skewering; 
MR 20%; AL N (See FIEND FOLIO(tm) 
Tome, pg. 61) 

Dragon, Oriental (Pan Lung): AC 2; MV 12 7 

12" 1/9"; HD 8 (huge); hp 56 (very old); 
#AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/2-16; SA scaly com 
mand power, charm monster 3 x/day, water 
fire, bite hit attaches (Dmg 1-8 and 2-12 
constriction); SZ L; I High (See FIEND 
FOLIO(tm) Tome, pg. 29) 

The Beacon 

When the characters are in sight of the 
keep, hand out the Players' Map (pages 15 
and 16), and read the following aloud: 


A beam of unearthly green light shines 
into the sky from the broken top of a 
square stone building ahead. This tower 
stands atop a hill on an island in the 
swamp. Both it and the surrounding struc 
tures are made of greenish-gray limestone, 
but are in a state of moderate disrepair. 
The tower is encircled by a wall that con 
nects four smaller round towers, each fairly 
intact. The wall itself has collapsed at one 
or more points. In contrast, a solid-looking 
gatehouse straddles the road that leads to 
the keep. Outside the wall are a few soggy 
islands surrounded by stagnant water. 


If the characters are approaching at night, 
they also see lights shining from various rooms 
of both the gatehouse and the main tower. 


ENCOUNTER KEYS 

Outer Areas and Yard 
Al. ROADWAY 

The remains of a roadway made of lime 
stone blocks lead west to a gatehouse. This 
road once extended a full mile, making the 
final approach to the keep much easier. Parts 
of the road have sunk and are now under 
water, and the entire road is partially over 
grown. A dank, mouldy odor rises from the 
stones. 

A2. WEST BRIDGE 

Six trolls live near this bridge, and may 
(50% chance) be nearby. If so, they attack 
intruders, preferably by ambush. One troll 
suddenly rises from the reeds along the road 
ahead of the party, while two more make 
ready to rise from under the bridge at the east 
edge of the stream. The other three wait until 
they hear the sounds of combat, and then qui 
etly climb up the west end of the bridge, hop 
ing to attack with surprise from the rear. 

Note that the trolls attack the first group of 
intruders to cross the bridge. This might be all 
or merely some of the characters. 

Roll normally for surprise for the party 
when the first three trolls appear. The trolls 
cannot be surprised unless all the characters 
are invisible. If any character specifically 
watches the rear after combat begins (assum 
ing that the entire party is being attacked), 
the other trolls do not gain surprise. If no such 
action is described, apply a -2 penalty to the 
party's second surprise roll, and a +1 bonus to 
that of the trolls. 

The trolls' lair is somewhere along the 
banks of the stream within 8 map hexes of the 
bridge (its exact location left to your choice). 
It consists of a few shallow holes dug in the 
boggy soil, to afford some meager protection 
against attacks. Lair treasure is split in four 
parts and buried. It consists of the bones of 
several humans, demi-humans, and lizard 
men, 240 cp, 372 sp, 41 ep, 2,750 gp, 4 gems 
each worth 100 gp, a string of pearls worth 
3,500 gp, a dagger +2. two potions of heal 
ing, and a scroll of protection from add. 

Trolls (6): AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6 + 6; hp 38; 
35, 33, 28, 26, 23; #AT 3; Dmg 5-8/S-8/ 

2-12; SD regeneration 


6 















A3. EAST BRIDGE 

If the trolls attacked at the west bridge, no 
encounter occurs here. If the trolls were 
absent, 40 lizard men may have planned an 
ambush for this location. The chance is nor 
mally 25%, or triple that if any lizard men 
have been previously slain by PCs. 

If they are here, the lizard men are sub 
merged in the stream, with 10 lizard men per 
map hex to either side of the bridge. If any 
character's vision is magically aided (using 
detect invisibility, for example, but not 
including infravision), neither side gains sur 
prise. Otherwise, a -1 penalty applies to the 
party's surprise roll, and a + 1 bonus to that of 
the lizard men. 

If the monsters gain surprise, only the 10 
closest (five from either side) can use all their 
surprise segments for attacks. The others lose 
1 segment per half-hex of movement 
required- i.e. 10 use one segment for move 
ment, 10 use two, and the remaining 10 move 
for three segments before engaging. 

Lizard Men (40): AC 5; MV 67/12"; HD 
2+1; hp 15 (x4), 13 (xl2), 11 (xl2), 9 
(xl2); #AT 1 or 3; Dmg 2-8 or 1-2/1-2/1-8 

A4. OUTER WAT,I, 


The walls surrounding the keep were once 
20 feet high and 3 feet thick. The height of 
the walls is now less than 10 feet in many 
damaged places, and only 1 foot or less in 
the gaps. A round tower 30 feet high and 
15 feet in diameter stands at each turn in 
the wall. 


With the exception of area A6, the interior 
of each tower has collapsed. They are now 
empty stone cylinders. If the players inspect 
any of the hollow towers, the doors are rusted 
shut (as with A6). If they gain access, the char 
acters find only a huge pile of stone and rub 
ble at the bottom. A patch of sky above gapes 
like an open mouth, the jagged battlements 
its teeth. 

A5. OUTBUILDINGS 

Three rotted wooden buildings stand at the 
base of the hill on which the keep is built. The 
building to the north is an old stable; those to 
the west and south are storage sheds. Marsh 
vegetation covers all their outer walls. The 
soggy ground sucks noisily at the adventurers' 
feet as they lift them out of the muck. The 
buildings are so covered with plant life that 
the doors are not easily found. The doors are 
half off their hinges and held shut only by 
creeper vines which appear to grow and inter 
twine even as they are watched. 

The buildings to the east and south are not 


inhabited. The remains of a shambling 
mound lie in the old stable (north outbuild 
ing), apparently crushed by a fallen beam. 
This monster is actually quite unharmed, nap 
ping as it awaits prey. If the building is 
entered, the shambler rises and attacks. 

Shambling Mound: AC 0; MV 6"; HD 9; hp 
38; #AT 2; Dmg 2-16/2-16; SA entangle if 
both attacks hit (producing suffocation in 
2-8 rounds); SD immune to fire, half dam 
age from blows, half or no damage from 
cold, grows 1 HD from lightning 

A6. EAST WATCHTOWER 

Entry to this 30-foot structure is blocked by 
an iron door. From the third level of the tower, 
just below the roof, two iron doors give access 
to the walkway atop the adjoining walls. 
Three arrow slits with iron shutters face south 
east, east, and northeast, and crenelated bat 
tlements edge the roof. 

The small door on the ground floor is rusted 
fast. It is too small for more than one person to 
push against, and is so corroded that anyone 
trying to open it has a + 3 penalty to the roll. 
The upper doors open with only a little shov 
ing. 

Each of the three interior levels is a simple 
round room, shrouded in spiderwebs. Trap 
doors in the ceilings and floors near the west 
wall are the only access between levels, but the 
ladders are long gone. The trap door in the 
ceiling of the lower level hangs open. The trap 
door to the roof is rusted shut. 

Two large spiders cling to the ceiling of the 
lower level. The rooms of the tower are empty. 

Large spiders (2): AC 8; MV 6"* 15"; HD 
1 + 1; hp 4, 3; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA poison 
(save at +2) 

A7. HIDDEN DOOR 

This slight pocket of ground is marked only 
for your reference, and cannot be found by 
the characters except from the underside. It is 
the location of the exit from area 24, the emer 
gency escape room in dungeon level one. The 
door is covered by a layer of dirt and rotted 
vegetation two feet thick. 

A8. PIT 

The outer wall is no barrier here, south of 
the keep. A pit 20 feet across and 20 feet deep 
has formed beneath the spot where the wall 
once stood. The entire pit is heavily over 
grown with vegetation, but is reasonably dry. 
Scuttling sounds are audible from within the 
mass of vines and branches. 

If the party clears or burns the plant life, 
numerous small and harmless animals (mice, 
frogs) flee the pit in a mass exodus. The bot 
tom of the pit is filled with rubble from the 


collapsed wall. 

An escape tunnel from the keep collapsed 
here, opening the diggings on the lower level 
to the outside. If the party clears the brush 
and inspects the bottom of the pit, they find 
an opening leading north. Ten ogres live 
there, just north of this pit. They will hear the 
party's work (unless magical silence is used) 
and take appropriate measures to set an 
ambush; refer to area 22 and Map #4 for 
details. The lower pit also gives access to a tun 
nel leading south, partially blocked by debris; 
see area 24 for more information. 

A9. GATEHOUSE 

The gatehouse of the keep was constructed 
as two rectangular three-story towers. The 20- 
foot space between the towers is bridged at the 
second floor by a one-story guardroom over 
the main entrance. A portcullis, now rusted to 
iron scraps, once blocked the roadway, but 
does so no longer. The gatehouse is intact 
except for a large hole at ground level in the 
west (outer) wall of the south tower. 

Conspicuous tracks of humans, horses, and 
wolves can be seen hereabouts. The doors of 
the gatehouse are all made of iron. The win 
dows are mere slits, each 6 inches wide and 2 
feet from top to bottom. If it is night, several 
lights can be seen shining from the window 
slits. The building's most dangerous occu 
pants are on the third floor, including Antar- 
cus (area G8) and his henchmen (area G6). Be 
sure you are familiar with the abilities of these 
NPCs before continuing. Others present 
include some bandits (mostly in area G5) and 
various monsters. 

The occupants of the gatehouse have a clear 
view to all sides, and attack if an obviously 
well-equipped group is seen approaching. 
The party can easily avoid this by entering at 
night. The mage Leptor (Keep area 10) might 
not intervene if he hears a fight. He will go 
upstairs to area 16, send his quasit for a better 
look, and wait to see who is winning. If the 
party is having great difficulty defeating 
Antarcus, Leptor will probably hold off in the 
hope that the two groups will exterminate one 
another, or that the surviving group will be 
greatly weakened. If the party seems power 
ful, he is likely to aid Antarcus by casting 
spells from the safety of the keep. Antarcus 
will then ask aid of Yiss, the lizard king, by 
tying a message to the leg of his blood hawk. 

If an invading party gets past the active 
defenses at the gatehouse, Leptor will make 
preparations to ambush them at the entrance 
to the keep. Refer to Keep area 1 for complete 
details on this operation. Some or all of the 
bandits in the gatehouse will try to get to the 
keep before the party, whether by sneaking 
around them or a simple dash for safety. They 
will obey Leptor's commands upon arrival. 


7 













The Gatehouse 

Gl. SOUTH TOWER, 1ST FLOOR 

This room has no doors. It can be entered 
through a hole in the southwest wall, or by 
using a trap door above that corner. 

The hole is partially blocked by rubble 
piled 3 feet high. It is a tight squeeze, but 
passable if the characters are not too heavily 
laden. The room appears to have once been a 
storeroom. It contains several empty barrels in 
which rodents have nested, a pile of fetid 
sleeping mats, and an iron tub with a hole in 
the bottom. 

The trap door is wizard locked at eighth level 
of magic use. Furthermore, the passage is 
blocked from above by a pile of crates loaded 
with stones. If the door is opened, the crates can 
be moved from below with two rounds' work. 

G2. NORTH TOWER, 1ST FLOOR 

A ground-level iron door in the east wall of 
this room faces the keep. This door is locked, 
and has a glyph of warding upon it (Fire, Dmg 
10). If the party has not been seen before 
entering, describe the room as follows: 


Whatever its former purpose, this room is 
now used as a stable. Straw covers the floor 
and a ladder leads to a trap door in the ceil 
ing by the southwest comer. Within, a 
bandit in leather and a lizard man are cur 
rying two horses. 


Bandit "Harry": AC 7 (leather* shield); MV 
12"; HD 1-1; hp 4; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-6 
(Shortsword) or 1-6/1-6 (shortbow); AL N 
Lizard man "Gyruga": AC 5; MV 6"//12"; 
HD 2 + 1; hp 9; #AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/1-8; 
ALN 

Medium warhorses (2): AC 7; MV 18"; HD 
2 + 2; hp 11, 13; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/1-3; 
ALN 

G3. SOUTH TOWER, 2ND FLOOR 

The door in the south wall, which leads to 
the walkway atop the outer wall, is locked and 
trapped with a glyph of warding (Fire. Dmg 
10) on its outer side. The door in the north 
wall, connecting to room G4, is not trapped or 
locked. A trap door is visible in the ceiling by 
the east wall, but is bolted from the room 
above (G6). A heavy pile of crates loaded with 
stones conceals a trap door (to room Gl) in the 
floor's southwest corner. 

Four bugbears are here. Each is armed with 
a morning star, light crossbow, torch, and two 
flasks of oil. The room contains dozens of 
rocks, light crossbows and bolts, and other 
assorted weapons for use against invaders try 
ing to climb up through the trap door (+ 4 to 
hit roll, Dmg 2-12 each). If attacked, 1-2 of 


the bugbears will hurry off to inform Antarcus 
and his henchmen (areas G6 and G8). 

Bugbears (4): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3 + 1; hp 19, 
17, 15, 13;#AT X Dmg 2-8 (morning star) 
or 14 (light crossbow) 

G4. GUARD ROOM 

The doors in the north and south walls are 
not locked. A rancid smell greets anyone 
entering this room. The floor is pierced by 
murder holes over the main entrance to the 
yard of the keep. Several bales of hay are 
stacked in the southwest corner, and a large 
black kettle is mounted on a raised platform 
in the northwest corner. The kettle is empty 
except for an oily residue that clings to its 
inner walls. This kettle is used to heat oil, for 
pouring through the holes onto intruders. 

G5. NORTH TOWER, 2ND FLOOR 

The doors to this room are secured as those 
of room G3-the outer one locked and 
trapped on the outside with a glyph of ward 
ing (Fire, Dmg 10), and the inner one 
unlocked and not trapped. Trap doors are visi 
ble in the floor (southwest corner) and the 
ceiling (by the east wall), leading to areas G2 
and G8 respectively. 

The possessions, supplies, and weapons of a 
band of fighting men litter the floor. Thread 
bare blankets are stretched over piles of straw 
around the outer walls of the room. A lantern 
hangs from a hook in the ceiling. 

If one of the bugbears from room G3 has 
given an alarm, no one is in this room. Other 
wise, eight bandits and their leader (a warrior) 
are here playing dice. If they are taken by sur 
prise, they take two rounds just to find their 
own weapons, and may even then quarrel 
among themselves over possession of certain 
choice blades. 

If the party permits conversation, the ban 
dits will not pursue a fight. They have not 
been paid in weeks, and their loyalty to Antar 
cus is waning, even if their fear of him is not. 
The bandits fear that the party will tell Antar 
cus (who has forbidden gambling) of their 
pastime, and may try to bribe the PCs to keep 
the matter quiet. 

Each bandit has 3-18 sp and 2-8 gp in a pack. 
The leader has 95 gp and one 10 gp gem. 

Bandits (8): AC 7 (leather* shield); MV 12"; 
HD 1-1; hp 6 (x2), 5 (x2), 4 (x2), 3 (x2); 
#AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-6 (Shortsword) or 1-6/ 
1-6 (shortbow); ALN 

Ivral Zahn, 2nd level human fighter: AC 4 

(chain & shield); MV 9"; hp 12; #AT 1 or 
2; Dmg 1-8 (longsword) or 1-6/1-6 (short 
bow); ALLE 


G6. SOUTH TOWER, 3RD FLOOR 

Supplies and personal belongings are 
arranged in orderly piles near the west wall of 
this room. Trap doors, one above the other, 
are in the floor and ceiling near the east wall. 
A ladder leads up to the one above. 

No common bandits occupy this room. 
Antarcus's trusted retainers, a rather odd group, 
are resting their elbows in the remains of a hearty 
meal while discussing the oyster beds off Jetsam 
Island, good taverns, blondes they have known, 
and the diminishing likelihood that Baltron's 
treasure will ever be found. 

The group consists of a pair of human iden 
tical twins (fighters), each wearing plate 
armor, another man (a cleric) with a fiery sym 
bol on his breastplate, a gnome (illusionist) in 
multi-colored robes, and a half-ore (thief) in 
leather armor. If the bugbears from G3 have 
raised the alarm, these mercenaries have gone 
off to fight the intruders. 

In addition to the equipment noted with 
the statistics, the NPCs have the following 
valuables. The twin fighters carry 28 gp each. 
The cleric carries 30 gp, 25 pp, 2 vials of 
unholy water, and one 250 gp gem. The 
gnome illusionist has 70 gp and a potion of 
plant control. The half-ore thief carries 35 gp 
and one 250 gp gem. Each NPC also owns 
standard equipment and provisions. 

The gnome's spell books are hidden among 
the piled equipment, and contain the follow 
ing spells. Level One: change self color spray, 
darkness, detect illusion, read illusionist 
magic; Level Two: blindness, mirror image. 
The first page of the book is blank except for a 
brief note, written and signed by the gnome's 
mentor (one Eggy Gax by name, a spell 
binder) in illusionaiy script. This message, 
safely read only by illusionists, is merely a per 
sonalized autograph; but it causes any non 
illusionist reading it to become confused (no 
saving throw) for 5-20 turns, minus 1 turn per 
level of the victim. 

The twins have identical characteristics and 
equipment. The thief has a special dislike for 
magic-users, and will concentrate attacks on 
them if possible. 

Cyrus and Tyras Thyrian, 3rd level human 
fighters: AC 2 (plate & shield); MV 9"; 
hp 20; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2-9 (longsword, 
bonuses included) or 1-6/1-6 (composite 
longbow); ALLE 

S 16, I 9. W 8, D 13, Co 12, Ch 10 

Borg the Sly, 5th level half-ore thief: AC 5 

(leather); MV 12 hp 26; #AT 1: Dmg 1-8 
(longsword) or 2-5 (dagger + 1); AL CE 
Thief skills: PP 50%; OL 57%; F/RT 45%; 
MS 45%; HS 36%; HN 25%; CW 95%; 
RL 15 %; backstab at + 4 for triple damage 
S 12, 1 14, W 8, D 17, Co 15, Ch 9 


8 













Boris the Baffler, 3rd level gnome illusionist: 

AC 7 (robes); MV 12"; hp 9; #AT 1; Dmg 
\-4 (silver dagger); AL N 
S 9, I 17, W 10, D 16, Co 10, Ch 11 
Spells: 

1st level: color spray, darkness 
2nd level: blindness 

Rothgar Redmace, 5th level human cleric: AC 

4 (chain & shield); MV 9"; hp 23; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2-7 (mace); AL LE 

5 12, I 11. W 16, D 9, Co 11, Ch 13 
Spells: 

1st level: command, cure light wounds 
(x2), detect magic, light 
2nd level: hold person (x2), resist fire, 
silence 15' radius, speak with animals 
3rd level: dispel magic 

G7. GUARDROOM ROOF 

This section of the gatehouse roof is 10 feet 
below the tops of the north and south towers. 
Two doors, one at each end of the roof, lead to 
the third floor rooms of the towers (G6 and 
G8). The roof is empty. A 4-foot-high crenel 
ated battlement encloses this area on the east 
and west sides. Glyphs of warding (Electric, 
Dmg 10) have been placed on the outer side of 
each door. 

G8. NORTH TOWER, 3RD FLOOR 


There is no hint of elegance here. This is 
the spartan, functional chamber of a mer 
cenary leader. A crude cot covered by a 
good wool blanket lies against the wall to 


the left of a narrow window. A small pack 
and a lantern stand on an overturned crate 
used as a makeshift nightstand. The west 
end of the room is piled with straw. A 
strong animal odor fills the air. There are 
trap doors in the floor and ceiling at the 
east end of the room. 


If Antarcus, his blood hawk, or his hieraco- 
spliinx has been killed in a swamp encounter, 
or if the bugbears in room G3 have raised the 
alarm, this room is unoccupied. But if Antar 
cus is taken by surprise, add the following: 


At the west end of the room, a powerful 
man in plate armor is fussing over a large 
monstrous form-a hawk-headed winged 
lion. The man is grooming the creature 
with a coarse brush. A large hawk-like bird 
sits on the sill of the west window. In the 
southeast corner, between the trap door 
and the entry, a huge wolf lies curled on 
the floor. 


The fighter will parlay unless attacked first. 
This is Antarcus, who is always accompanied 
by his pets, a worg and a blood hawk. The 
hieracosphinx serves as his flying mount. 
These creatures are totally loyal to him and 
obey all his commands. Antarcus has a meager 
175 gp and one 500 gp gem, which he keeps 
in a leather pouch hidden in the worg's sleep 
ing straw. Antarcus's pack contains only ordi 
nary clothing and supplies. 

Antarcus was once a ranger, but lost this sta 
tus because of acts of cruelty to helpless foes. 


He and his employer, the mage Leptor, are not 
on the best of terms, because Leptor has thus 
far failed to find sufficient treasure in the keep 
to pay for Antarcus's services as escort and 
guide. This is especially galling since the 
former ranger accepted the employment par 
tially because of his lack of funds. 

Antarcus might be persuaded to aid the 
party in getting rid of Leptor, but once 
Baltron's treasure is discovered, the alliance will 
abruptly end. Antarcus will turn on the party 
and try to take all the treasure for himself. 

Antarcus Giantbane, 9th level human fighter: 

AC -3 (plate +1, shield +2); MV 12 "; hp 
89; #AT 3/2 (giant slayer longsword +2) 
or 2; Dmg 8-15 (ld8 + 7, including 
bonuses) or 1-6/1-6 (composite longbow); 
AL NE; wears cloak of elvenkind 
S 18/92, I 15, W 14, D 16, Co 18, Ch 16 

Blood Hawk: AC 7; MV 24 "; HD 1 + 1; hp 9; 

#AT 3; Dmg 1-4/1-4/1-6; AL N 
Hieracosphinx: AC 1; MV 9736"; HD 9; hp 
47; #AT 3; Dmg 2-8/2-8/1-10; AL CE 
Worg: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4 +4; hp 25; #AT 
1; Dmg 2-8; ALNE 

G9. SOUTH TOWER ROOFTOP 

A 4-foot-high crenelation encloses this 
rooftop. The area is bare and windswept. The 
iron trap door to the room below (G6) is 
rusted shut. 

G10. NORTH TOWER ROOFTOP 

The rooftop is bare, enclosed by a 4-foot- 
high crenelation. The trap door to Antarcus's 
room (G8) is locked from below. 


9 























The Keep 

This section begins with the second floor 
rooms, since a hallway is the only easy means 
of entry. 

If the party ignores the gatehouse and pro 
ceeds directly to the keep, Antarcus and his 
band attack at the first favorable opportunity 
(assuming, of course, that at least one PC 
could be seen by sentries). Their attack might 
be supported by spells from the mage Leptor 
(Keep area 10), as detailed in the general 
description of the Gatehouse (A9). Statistics 
for the attacking forces are given in Gatehouse 
areas G5, G6, G8. Should the party get past 
the defender's resistance and try to enter the 
keep, Leptor will have gathered any available 
forces (including Virna his lady weretiger, 
Hardrack his guard in room 9. the mimic in 
room 12, and any mercenaries fleeing here 
from the gatehouse) and prepared an ambush 
at area 1. Refer to that area description for fur 
ther details. 

The keep is 40 feet square and 70 feet high. 
An explosion about halfway up the southwest 
corner has destroyed the room from which the 
green light now issues. The second and third 
floors are damaged, and the roof has fallen in 
over this section. The building has not been 
well cared for, and the harsh environment of 
the swamp has caused deterioration in other 
places as well. The windows of the keep are 
archer slits, 3 feet long and 6 inches wide. 
Their iron shutters are missing. Wooden inte 
rior doors are reinforced with iron. The first 
floor windows are 20 feet off the ground. 


1. PROTECTED ENTRANCE 

The keep has no entrance at ground level. A 
narrow stone staircase with no railing hugs the 
keep wall. It ends abruptly, 15 feet off the 
ground and 5 feet from a small platform in 
front of the entryway. This gap is bridged by 
two boards, the remains of a door. 

The entry hall is 5 feet wide. It extends 10 
feet into the keep before turning west. The ceil 
ing at the turn contains a portcullis, normally 
open, which can be lowered by operating the 
turn wheel in room 2. The north wall at the turn 
is pierced by an archer slit 3 inches wide and 3 
feet tall, and a similar slit marks each side of the 
hallway. The ceiling is perforated by dozens of 
holes, each about 2 inches across. 

The hall continues 5 feet west of the port 
cullis before turning north, then continuing 
for 5 feet and ending at a doorway. This door 
(half open at the moment) can swing about 
fully, to close off either the entry hall or the 
doorway to room 3. 

Ambush 

If Leptor is ready for the party's arrival, he 


has set up as much of the following as possi 
ble. The portullis is down, in closed position. 
A small table stands in the northeast corner of 
the hall; this is actually Leptor's charmed 
mimic, from room 12, which will attack only 
when such is convenient. Two carrion crawlers 
fill much of the hall, having been dragged 
here from room 5 by Hardrack, a guard who is 
immune to paralysis. Archers should be 
posted in room 5 at the arrow slits (though 
none will be in room 3, because of the 
untamed monsters). The archer at the end of 
the hall has dipped the ends of several arrows 
in oil. Leptor is in room 5 with a lit torch, and 
with his belt pouches open for quick access to 
spell components. Finally, someone is upstairs 
with both oil and water ready, the former for 
dumping on invaders, the latter for prevent 
ing the spread of fire. Given 3 turns' time to 
prepare, the oil is boiling hot; but whether 
heated or not, it is still used. 

A minimal setup finds Leptor and Hardrack 
at the north end of the hall, with Virna tend 
ing the oil and water upstairs. 

Expected visitors will be allowed to deal 
with the carrion crawlers and the mimic before 
the others attack. When the oil is poured, 
each victim in the hall must make a Saving 
Throw vs. Breath Weapon. Those in the 
northern 5 feet are past the ceiling holes, and 
gain a + 5 bonus to the saving throw. Success 
indicates a mere splattering with oil; failure 
means a thorough soaking. If the oil is boil 
ing, it inflicts 5-30 (5d6) points of heat dam 
age to those failing the saving throw, or half 
damage to those who succeed. At least one 
archer will then use flaming arrows on the vic 
tims. Anyone completely soaked with oil and 
then lit will burn for a full turn, taking 1-8 
points of damage each round. If merely splat 
tered, the victim burns for half that time, and 
for half that damage (ld4) per round. 

The whole affair will probably attract the 
vampire mists from room 3, who are immune 
to fire. They should arrive shortly after the oil 
is poured. 

Those quick to react to being doused with 
oil may, of course, simply dash back outside. 
The first person to hastily cross the boards 
between the landing and the stair will knock 
them to the ground. Those following suffer a 
delay of 1-2 segments when preparing to 
jump from the landing to the stairs. At that 
point, it may be better for a soaked but 
unburnt victim to simply jump, taking the 1- 
6 points of damage from the fall instead of 
risking shots from flaming arrows. 

If the defenders manage to capture any 
PCs, the losers are stripped of all equipment 
(excepting only their normal clothes) and 
imprisoned in the cells (area 20). Leptor sends 
word to King Yiss for the lizard men to be on 
the lookout for fresh meat. Prisoners will be 


divided amongst the cells as evenly as possi 
ble, including cell E (which has a secret escape 
route). Assume that any thief prisoners have 
concealed their lockpicks well enough that 
such are not discovered in the search, though 
no other useful equipment remains. Finally, 
be prepared to run an interesting adventure 
when the characters try to escape and sneak 
out through the swamplands. 

2. DINING HALL 


In this room, apparently an old dining 
hall, old bones shrouded in cobwebs litter 
the remains of several square tables. Splin 
tered chairs lie scattered throughout the 
room. 


The floor section surrounded by the dotted 
line is unsafe, and will collapse if stepped on 
by anyone weighing 100 or more pounds, 
plunging the victim to room 7 for 2-12 points 
of damage and a sojourn with the trolls. 

3. SITTING ROOM 

Two rotted, broken armchairs and a 
decrepit sofa with very short legs appear to 
float 12 inches above the floor. A second look 
shows that the furniture legs are concealed by 
a white mist that covers the floor to a depth of 
a foot. The mist appears identical to normal 
swamp mist, but is actually three living crea 
tures. The room contains nothing of value. 

These vampire mists are intelligent and will 
make coordinated attacks, one flowing out the 
window to the stair, the other two flowing out 
through the archer slits opening into the entry 
hall. They fear Leptor (area 10) and do not attack 
ifhe is present. Antarcus (G8) periodically deliv 
ers a freshly killed animal to placate them. 

Vampire mists* (3): AC 6; MV 12 HD 3; hp 

22, 15, 11; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA envelop 
ment; SD spell immunities 
*New Monster, described on page 3 

4. KITCHEN 

If the party has slain a will-o-wisp in a ran 
dom encounter, this area (and its lair nearby) 
is uninhabited. Otherwise, roll ld20 when the 
room is entered: 

1-6 Monster is away and does not return for 
2-5 hours. 

7-14 Monster is in lair (see below). 

15-20 Monster is away, but returns while the 
party is in the room. It then tries to lure 
them away from the room, or attacks. 

A large iron stove squats in the northeast 
corner of the room. Only half of a trap door 
remains to cover a 2-foot-square shaft in the 
northwest corner. Thirty feet down the shaft, 
light reflects off the inky water in this old well. 


10 















The well is 70 feet deep. An underwater 
side cavity, 60 feet from the top, is only visible 
when observed from within 10 feet of it. This 
3-foot-wide cavity is the lair of the will-o- 
wisp. The lair contains 3,000 sp, 40 gems 
worth 100 gp each, a crown (1,500 gp), a 
gold-plated sword hilt (100 gp), an emerald 
ring (1,000 gp), a platinum bracelet (400 gp), 
and a mace + 1/ + 4 vs. undead. 

The 'wisp fears Leptor, who has hit it with 
magic missiles more than once. It will thus 
flee immediately after taking damage from 
this spell. 

Will-o-wisp: AC -8; MV 18" (MC:A); HD 9; 
hp 46; #AT 1; Dmg 2-16; SD affected by 
any blows but immune to all spells except 
magic missile, protection from evil, and 
maze 

5. LARDER 

A narrow corridor running east and west 
opens into an irregularly shaped room with a 
stairway to the third floor at the south end. 
The two large cabinets in this room are empty. 
In the northwest comer, a nest made of sticks 
and debris protrudes from the general mess on 
the floor. The nest contains several eggs and 
the partially consumed body of a lizard man. 

The two carrion crawlers here are quite hun 
gry, surviving on the bloodless corpses of vic 
tims of the vampire mists (area 3). Their 
presence is known to Leptor and his allies, but 
tolerated. The 'crawlers will be so overjoyed to 
see living prey that they gain a + 2 bonus to 
their hit roll, this lasting until either is dam 
aged. The 'crawlers lurk at the spots marked 
"C" on the map. The one by the stairs is on 
the floor, hidden in shadows; the other clings 
to the ceiling. 

Carrion Crawlers (2): AC 3/7; MV 12"; HD 
3 + 1; hp 16, 12; #AT 8; Dmg 0; SA paraly 
sis 2-8 turns 

6. ALCOVE 

A heavy oak trap door in the floor stands 
open, leaning against the south wall. Metal 
rungs in the wall form a stair down to the 
ground level of the keep. A pulley attached to 
the ceiling above the door is used to lower 
goods to that storage area. Anyone listening at 
the open trap door hears the grunts of some 
thing (trolls) foraging below. 

7. STORAGE ROOM 

The entire ground level of the keep is a sin 
gle large storeroom with a 15-foot ceiling. 
Three trolls are foraging among the items. 

Driven by hunger, these trolls recently crept 
in secretly. Their presence is not known to the 
keep's inhabitants. Features of the storeroom 
identified by letters A through G on the map 


are described in detail below. Each troll's loca 
tion is marked by a "T." 

Trolls (3): AC 4, MV 12", HD 6 + 6, hp 36, 
30, 28; #AT 3; Dmg 5-8/5-8/2-12; AL CE; 
SD regeneration 


At the middle of the north wall, a wooden 
6-foot square column (A) extends from 
floor to ceiling. Four large chests (B) stand 
against the east wall, north of the trap door 
in the ceiling. Two large casks (E) and a 
huge chest (D) are set against the south 
wall. The alcove north of them (C) has 
been made into a large bin, now filled by 
rotten tubers. Shelves (F) lining the north 
wall hold a variety of ordinary items, 
mostly jars. Four kegs and three barrels (G) 
stand on end in the center of the room. 
The trolls have opened the barrels. 


A. This square wooden column surrounds the 
well shaft from room 4. 

B. The chests lined up here contain cloth of 
wool, linen, and cotton. 

C. The bin holds rotted tubers and troll dung. 
Five rot grubs are hidden within: 

Rot Grubs (5): AC 9; MV 1"; hp 1; #AT 1; 
Dmg burrowing (kills in 1-3 turns unless 
destroyed by flame or cure disease) 

D. This large chest is filled with yellow mold. 
The chest does not appear sturdy. On close 
examination, a faint yellow discoloration can 
be detected around its edges. 

Yellow Mold: AC 9; MV 0"; HD 2; hp 15; #AT 
1; Dmg 1-8; SD when hit. 50% chance for 
poison spores in 10-foot cube, SD affected 
only by light (calms for 2-12 turns) or fire; 
ALN 

E. The large casks set here contain sour ale and 
wine. 

F. These shelves hold jars, pottery, dirty rags, 
soap, a box of nails, two bags of cement, a 
large wooden tub, a tinderbox, torches, a set 
of false teeth for a humanoid, and several 
rusted but useable keys. 

G. Four small kegs (of brandy, water, pitch, 
and oil) are stacked here by three barrels 
(dried salted meat, flour, and hardtack. 

A secret trap door just west of the kegs leads 
to the dungeon below by way of a square shaft 
with a ladder built into one side. The shaft 
extends 40 feet down to room 18. The trap 
door is padlocked, but one of the rusty keys 
can unlock it. 


8. LANDING 

The stairway leads to a square landing. The 
floor of the landing is covered with loose rocks 
and dust. An arrow slit penetrates the west 
wall, giving a clear view of the usable tower 
(A6). The door opposite opens westward, with 
hinges on the north edge. It is closed and 
locked. Anyone opening it feels resistance, as 
if someone were holding it shut from the 
other side. This is merely because of an old 
but very heavy rug, nailed up above the door 
on the west side. 

9. UPPER H AL LWAY 

A heavy old rug covers the door in the 
southeast corner. The light from a torch set in 
the east wall thus cannot be seen from the 
landing. Another old rug covers several holes 
in the floor (over the entry hall, area 1). An 
arrow slit in the south wall gives a view of the 
outside yard. Five feet of the west wall and a 
good part of the ceiling have fallen into rub 
ble. The door in the solid wall north of the 
rubble leads to area 12; a solid chair stands in 
the corner nearby. 

A man in plate mail guards the door to the 
northeast. This is the fighter Hardrack, who 
stands guard before the door to the alchemy 
lab. Though of Lawful Good alignment, he 
was tricked by Leptor into donning a cursed 
helm of freedom. He now has a Wisdom of 2, 
and is under Leptor's charm as well. Hardrack 
will attack any creature entering the hall other 
than Leptor, Virna, or Leptor's quasit, using 
methods described below. He does not alert 
his master before attacking, but loud noise of 
battle might do so. However, at the time of 
the party's arrival, Leptor is using a squeaky 
grindstone in room 10, and will not hear the 
sounds of melee unless they include shouting, 
explosions, or some other loud or unusual 
noise. 

Movement of the rug over the door alerts 
Hardrack. If those arriving push through 
immediately, he draws his sword and moves to 
engage, then falling back to his original posi 
tion before the northeast door. If the intruders 
hesitate at the rug's resistance, Hardrack 
quickly grabs the chair (around the corner to 
his right) while drawing his bow. He places 
the chair just south of his door, kneels behind 
it, drops his shield, and readies an arrow. This 
results in 75% cover, for a -7 bonus to both 
Armor Class (revised AC -5) and saving 
throws. In this concealed and alert position, 
treat Hardrack's ensuing surprise roll as an 
automatic 6, and apply a -1 penalty to the par 
ty's roll. 

Note that all of the above actions are 
because of Leptor's detailed instructions. 
Hardrack is not stupid, merely unwise. 


11 














The helm gives Hardrack immunity from 
paralysis and hold spells. His primary loyalty 
can only be redirected by a charm from a more 
powerful caster (10th or higher level), though it 
can be removed (by dispel magic, at the usual 
chances of success) or divided (by still another 
charm). The cursed helm cannot be removed 
until after treatment with a remove curse spell 
produced by an 8th or higher level caster. (The 
curse can only be permanently removed by a 
caster of 12th or higher level. In addition to the 
immunities bestowed, as noted above, the 
helm enables the wearer to produce a produce a 
knock spell effect 3 times per day if the proper 
command word is known, though this has not 
been discovered as yet.) 

If spared and rescued from Leptor's control, 
Hardrack will be exceedingly grateful and will 
serve one rescuer (the party leader, unless 
good reason is given otherwise) for the 
remainder of the adventure. 

Should access to area 15 be desired, the rub 
ble can be cleared in 3-18 man-turns. A small 
hole, suitable for crawling, can be opened in a 
tenth that time. 

Hardrack, 7th level human fighter: AC 1 

(plate & shield) or -5 (with cover); MV 9"; 

hp 63; #AT 3/2 or 2; Dmg 3-10 (longsword 

+ 7) or 1-6/1-6 (shortbow); AL LG 

S 15, 19, W 2 (11), D 14, Co 15, Ch 11 

10. ALCHEMY LAB 

The party must perform well to enter with 
out alerting Leptor the mage. If alerted by 
combat outside the keep, Leptor has already 
left this area to either observe or conduct the 
defense from area 17, or to organize the 
ambush in area 1. In any case, he and Virna 
are not thereafter found here. They may have 
vacated the keep completely, or may be in the 
dungeon areas. If you choose the latter, keep 
track of the pair's activities and location; the 
party may be along shortly. 

If the characters manage to enter quietly, 
they surprise Leptor and his lady Virna, and 
may act for 1-4 (ld4) surprise segments before 
their enemies can react. Read the boxed text 
labeled "A" after the door is opened, and skip 
the text marked "B". 

If alerted by the noise of combat with 
Hardrack in area 9, Leptor overturns Virna's 
chair and hides behind it, while she changes 
to weretiger form and moves to the room's 
southwest corner, so that the opening door 
will shield her from sight. Skip text "A" and 
read text "B" aloud. 

A. Party Surprises Leptor 


The door opens into the southwest corner 
of a long room, about 25 feet north-to- 


south and 15 feet wide. A gaunt man in 
normal clothes is sitting at a grindstone 
near the north wall, busily working its 
squeaky foot pedal and honing a large 
knife. A fiercely beautiful woman sits in a 
large stuffed chair by a small open furnace 
in the northeast corner, fondly gazing into 
the flames. A bat hangs from the ceiling 
above a long table by the east wall. 


The craftsman is the mage Leptor, of 
course, and the woman is his ally Virna. The 
mage will throw the knife he is honing, given 
the chance to do so (treat as a dagger, throw 
ing ranges l"/2"/3"). 

B. Combat in Area 9 Has Alerted Leptor 


The door, hinged along the south edge, 
opens into the southwest corner of a long 
room, about 25 feet north-to-south and 15 
feet wide. The floor is tiled with red and 
white squares, and the walls are plastered 
and painted white. The only visible exit is 
a door in the west wall. A tall closed cabi 
net fills the northwest corner, and a pedal- 
driven grindstone stands along the north 
wall. A large well-padded chair sits empty 
before a small furnace in the northeast cor 
ner, and an exhaust pipe projects through 
the ceiling. A long workbench occupies the 
east wall. Three long wall shelves over the 
workbench are filled with hundreds of bot 
tles, some sparkling clean, others dusty. 
Many have peeling, unreadable labels or 
no labels at all. 


If characters enter the room without cau 
tion, they are automatically surprised for 2-5 
segments. If someone examines the area 
slowly, with care, without entering, and using 
a detect invisibility spell, Leptor is seen hid 
ing, and Virna's breathing is heard behind the 
door. The party's actions will most likely fall 
somewhere between these extremes, so use 
your judgment for modifiers to the surprise 
rolls. Note that if PCs spot and move toward 
Leptor, Virna may attack from the rear and 
gain surprise as well. 

While the quasit is within 10 feet of its mas 
ter, Leptor is a 9th level magic-user with 25 % 
magic resistance, and regenerates at the rate of 
1 point per round. If the quasit dies, Leptor 
immediately becomes a fourth level magic- 
user. You must then delete some spells from 
the list given, leaving 3 of first level and 2 of 
second level. 

Leptor wears a brooch of shielding (42 
charges), and thus cannot be harmed by 
magic missile spells. He also carries 20 gp, 15 
pp, and a potion of diminution. Should his 


future look dim, he tries to retreat through 
the west door. This portal bears his fire trap 
(Dmg ld4+9 in a 5-foot radius), and thus 
only he can safely enter the Library. 

The quasit follows Leptor into the Library if 
he retreats, and its special status as familiar 
avoids detonating the fire trap. However, it 
keeps its bat form whatever the course of the 
battle, and does not fight physically. It readily 
abandons Leptor if damaged at all, fleeing to 
some other room nearby to avoid danger. 
Should this occur, Leptor remains 9th level 
but loses the magic resistance and regenera 
tion power. 

Leptor, 9th (8th) level Magic-User: AC 5 

(bracers of defense AC 8); MV 12 "; HD 9 
(8); hp 39; #AT 1; Dmg 3-6 (dagger +2); 
SD regenerates 1 hp/round; MR 25 %; AL 
CE; has brooch of shielding, potion of 
diminution 

5 11,1 18, W 12, D 17, Co 15, Ch 11 
Spells: 

1st level: charm person, magic missile (x2), 
protection from good 
2nd level: detect invisibility, invisibility, 
web 

3rd level: dispel magic, fireball, fly 
4th level: ice storm, polymorph other 
5th level: hold monster 

Virna (weretiger form): AC 3; MV 12"; HD 

6 + 2; hp 26; #AT 3; Dmg 1-4/1-4/1-12; 
SA rear claws (Dmg 2-5/2-5); SD hit only 
by silver or magic weapons 

Virna (human form, 4th level fighter): AC 8; 
MV 12 "; hp 26; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-4 (dag 
ger) or 2-112-1 (using six arrows +1 and 
composite longbow); ALN(E) 

S 13, I 12, W 8, D 16, Co 15, Ch 16 
Quasit (bat form): AC 2; MV 15"; HD 3; hp 
17; #AT 0; SA detect good, detect magic 
1/day rear 3" radius; SD save as 7 HD, 
become invisible at will, immune to cold, 
fire, lightning, and normal weapons; MR 
25%;AL CE" 

Reveal some or all of the following details, 
as needed, if the party examines the room 
carefully. 

The laboratory contains many items for use in 
alchemy. Labeled bottles and jars on the shelves 
contain nitric acid, sulfuric acid, formic acid, 
holy water, unholy water, an ammonia salt, cop 
per sulfate, gelatin, alum, giant bee wax, pow 
dered silver, powdered lead, zinc and iron 
filings, bat guano, graveyard soil, olive oil, snake 
tongues, and two umber hulk eyes in a clear liq 
uid. The cabinet contains an hourglass, an astro 
labe, prisms, lenses, metal connecting rods for 
supporting glassware, clamps, rubber tubing, 
brushes, and the skull of a unicorn. The work 
bench is solid stone, built into the wall. At one 


12 
















Swamp Encounters 


IdlOO Roll 

Creatures Encountered 

01-25 

10-40 lizard men (see note A) 

26-30 

1 quasit (from keep area 9) in bat form (see 
notes B and C) 

31-40 

1 will-o-wisp (from keep area 4; see note B) 

41-50 

2-12 trolls 

51-60 

Antarcus (see note D) 

61-80 

1-2 fog giants 

81-85 

2-12 ghouls, and 10% chance for 1-2 ghasts 
as well 

86-88 

2-8 shadows 

89-92 

1-4 wraiths 

93 

1 spectre 

94-00 

pan lung (see notes B and E) 


Yard & Keep Encounters 

IdlOO Roll 

Yard Keep Creatures Encountered 

01-10 01-20 1 will-o-wisp (from keep area 4; see note B) 
11-15 21-30 1 quasit (from keep area 9; see notes Band C) 

16-30 31-45 14 trolls 

31-39 46-50 1 shambling mound 

40 1 -2 algoids 

41 -45 51 -56 10-40 lizard men (See note A) 

46-49 4-9 giant frogs 

50-52 2-8 killer frogs 

53 2-8 poisonous frogs 

54-56 2-8 giant lizards 

57-58 3-6 crocodiles 

59-60 1 giant snake, constrictor 

61-62 1 giant snake, poisonous 

63-66 57-60 2-8 gargoyles 
67 1 hieracosphinx 


IdlOO 

Roll 


Yard 

Keep 

Creatures Encountered 

68 


1 criosphinx 

69-70 

61-69 

1-4 giant weasels 

71-75 

70-74 

2-8 giant wasps 

76-78 


2-8 giant toads 

79-81 

75-76 

1 meazel 

82 


1 dragon, black (see notes B and F) 

83-86 

77-82 

2-12 ghouls, and 10% chance for 1-2 
ghasts also 

87-91 

83-87 

2-8 shadows 

92-93 

88-90 

1-3 wraiths 

94 

91 

3-12 needlemen 

95 

92 

1 spectre 

96-98 

93-98 

1-3 vampire mists (see new monster, page 5) 

99 


1 cifal 

100 

99 

pan lung (see notes B and E) 


100 

1 gas spore (90%) or 1 beholder (10%) 


Monster Statistics 

Algoid: AL CN; MV 6"; HD 5; AC 5; #AT 2; Dmg 
1-10/1-10; SA controls trees as treant; SD + 2 or 
better edged weapon to hit, immune to magical 
fireball, lightning; I Semi; SZ M; Psi 101-120 
(FF 11) 

Beholder: AL LE; MV 373"; HD 10; hp 45; AC 
0/2/7; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; SA eyes; SD front anti 
magic eye; SZ L; I Exc (MM 10) 

Cifal: AL N; HD 8; AC 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-12; SD 
edged weapon inflicts 1 point only; SZM; I Non 
(FF 19) 

Crocodile: ALN; MV67/12"; HD 3; AC 5; #AT2; 
Dmg 2-8/1-12; SZ L; I Ani (MM 15) 

Dragon, black: /L CE; MV 12724"; HD 7; hp 35; AC 
3; #AT 3; Dmg 1-4/1-4/3-18; SA breath 6" x V4", 
fear aura; SD save as 9 HD; SZ L; I Ave (MM 31) 

Dragon, Oriental (Pan Lung): AL CN; MV 
127127/9"; HD 6-8; AC 2; #AT 3; Dmg 
1-3/1 -3/2-8; SA scaly command power, charm 
monster 3x/day, water fire, bite hit attaches 
(Dmg 1-8 and 2-12 constriction); SZ L; I High 
(FF 29) 

Frog, giant: AL N; MV 3 7 19 "; HD 2; AC 7; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-6; SA leap for surprise on 1-4, tongue 
attacks at +4, swallow on natural 20; SZ S; 

I Non (MM 41) 

Frog, killer: ALN; MV 67/12"; HD 1+4; AC 8 
#AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1 -2/2-5; SA leap for surprise 
on 1-4, tongue attacks at +4, leap 18"; SZ S; 

I Non (MM 41) 

Frog, poisonous: AL N; MV 37/9"; HD 1; AC 8; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1 + poison ( +4 to save); SA leap 
for surprise on 1-4, tongue attacks at +4, leap 
18"; SZS; I Non (MM 41) 

Gargoyle: AL CE; MV 9715"; HD 4 + 4; AC 5; 
#AT 4; Dmg 1-3/1 -3/1 -6/1 -4; SD magic 
weapon to hit; SZ M; I Low (MM 42) 


Gas spore: AL N; MV 3"; HD ; AC 9; THAC 0 
20; #AT 1; Dmg disease (kills in 24 hours); 
SD explodes if hit (Dmg 6-36 in 10' radius); SZ 
L; I Non (MM 42) 

Ghast: AL CE; MV 15"; HD 4; AC 4; #AT 3; Dmg 
1 -4/1 -4/1 -8 + paralysis; SD stench 10' radius, 
immune to sleep and charm; SZ M; I Very (MM 43) 
Ghoul: AL CE; MV 9"; HD 2; AC 6; #AT 3; Dmg 
1-3/1 -3/1-6; SA paralysis per hit; SD immune 
to sleep and charm; SZ M; IN Low (MM 43) 
Giant, fog: AL NE; MV 15"; HD 14; AC 1; #AT 1; 
Dmg 4-24; SA surprise 80% in fog, throw rocks 
(range 24 ", Dmg 2-20); SD surprised on 1 only; 
SZ L; I Ave (FF 42) 

Lizard man: AL N; MV 67/12"; HD 2 + 1; AC 5; 

#AT3; Dmg I-2/1-2/1-8; SZM; 1 Low (MM62) 
Meazel: AL CE; MV 12"; HD 4; AC 8; #AT 2; 
Dmg 1 -4/1-4; SA surprise allows strangulation 
in 2 rounds; SZ M; I Low (FF 63) 

Needleman: AL N; MV 9"; HD 3 +4; AC 6; #AT 
1-6 (range 20'); Dmg 1-2 each; SA surprise 
75% in undergrowth; SZ M; I Low (FF 67) 
Quasit (bat form): AL CE; MV 15"; HD 3; AC 2; 
#AT 0, SA polymorph to bat or wolf, detect 
magic, detect good, invisibility, fear 3 " radius 
1/day; SD regenerate 1 hp/round, immune to 
cold, fire, lightning, and normal weapons, save 
as 7 HD; MR 25%; SZ S; I Low (MM 80) 
Shadow: AL CE; MV 12"; HD 3+ 3; AC 7; #AT 1; 
Dmg 2-5; SA hit = drain 1 STR for 2-8 turns; 
SD magic weapon to hit, immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, cold, 90% invisible except in 
bright light; SZ M; I Low (MM 86) 

Shambling mound: AL N; MV 6"; HD 8; AC 0; 
#AT 2; Dmg 2-16/2-16; SA 2 hits entangle (suffo 
cate in 2-8 rounds); SD immune to fire, half or no 
damage from cold, half damage from blows, grows 
1 HD from lightning; SZ L; I Low (MM 87) 


Snake, giant constrictor: AL N; MV 9"; HD 6+1; 

AC 5; #AT 2; Dmg 1-4/2-8; SZ L; 1 Ani (MM 88) 
Snake, giant poisonous: AL N; MV 15 HD 4 + 2; 
AC 5; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3 + poison (Dmg 2-12 
and save or die); SZ L; I Ani (MM 88) 

Spectre (1-6): ALLE; MV 15 '730"; HD 7 + 3; AC 2; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-8 + double energy drain; 
SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, cold, poison, 
paralysis; SZ M; I High (MM 89) 

Sphinx, Crio-: ALN; MV 12724"; HD 10; AC 0; 

#AT 3; Dmg 2-8/2-8/3-18; SZL; I Ave (MM 89) 
Sphinx,Hieraco-: ALCE; MV9736"; HD9; AC 1; 

#AT3;Dmg2-8/2-8/l- 10;SZL: I Low (MM 89) 
Toad, giant: AL N; MV 6"; HD 2 +4; AC 6; #AT 1; 

Dmg 2-8; SA hop 6"; SZ M; I Ani (MM 95) 
Troll: AL CE; MV 12"; HD 6 + 6; AC 4; AT 3; 
Dmg 5-8/5-8/2-12; SA regenerate 3 hp/round 
starting 3 rounds after wounding, slain only by 
fire or acid; SZ L; I Low (MM 97) 

Vampire mist: ALNE; MV 12"; AC6; HD 3; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-8; SA envelopement; SD immune to all 
spells except air-affecting; SZ M; I Ave (new 
monster, page 5) 

Wasp, giant: AL N; MV 6'721; HD 4; AC 4; #AT 2; 
Dmg 2-8/1-4 + paralytic poison; SZ M; I Non 
(MM 99) 

Weasel, giant: ALN; MV 15 "; HD 3 + 3; AC 6; #AT 
1; Dmg 2 -12; SA attaches with bite; SZ M; I Ani 
(MM 100) 

Will-o-wisp: AL CE; MV 18"; HD 9; AC -8; #AT 1: 
Dmg 2-16; SD immune to all spells except 
magic missile, protection from evil, and maze, 
become invisible for 2-8 rounds; SZ S; I Exc 
(MM 101) 

Wraith: AL LE; MV 12724"; HD 5+3; AC 4; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-6 + 1-level drain; SD silver or 
magic to hit, immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
cold, poison, paralysis; SZ M; I Very (MM 102) 


Special Notes 

A. Lizard Men: There is a 5 % chance that King Yiss 
will be present with an additional 10-40 lizard men 
and Shagroth, a witch doctor lizard man. See note B 
also, with reference to King Yiss and Shagroth. 

Shagroth (cleric/magic-user, levels 7/2): ALN; MV 6"// 
12"; HD 7; AC 4; hp 37; #AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/1-8; 
SA magic use; SZ M; I Ave (MM 62); spells: 

1st level: dancing lights, shield, cute light 
wounds, cause fear, light 


2nd level: speak with animalsxl, augury 
3rd level: dispel magic, cure disease 
4th level: neutralize poison 

B. If this creature is slain, adjust the appropriate 
encounter key for its absence. 

C. The quasit remains in bat form, and does not 
attack. It is a familiar, reconnoitering for its master 
Leptor (keep room 10). 

D. Antarcus: See the gatehouse key (G8) for statis 
tics. This 9th level fighter may (80%) be riding his 


hieracosphinx, but will always be accompanied by 
his blood hawk. 

E. Pan Lung: This creature will be polymorphed as 
an old man if encountered in the keep. If the party 
has recently acquired treasure, he will demand a 
share. He is likely to parley with the party out of 
curiosity. 

F. Black dragon: This creature lives in the swamp 
within two miles of the keep. It is a medium-sized 
adult, and cannot speak nor use spells. Its mate, a 
large-sized adult, waits in the lair. 


13 
















































































PLAYERS' MAP 






Swamp 


Solid ground 


Pond/stream 


Partial wall 




Bridge 











































































Pre-generated Characters 



0@ff8(c) 

Name: Karis Sunpriest 
Race/sex: Human male 
Alignment: Lawful Good 
Level (XP): 6 (27,501) 

Hit points: 36 

Abilities: S 15, W 16, Co 15, 

I 12, D 10, Ch 13 

Armor Class: -1 

Armor type: Plate + 1, shield +2 
Weapons: 2 hammers, mace + 1 
Proficiencies: Flail, hammer, mace 
Turn undead: D-skeleton, zombie, T-ghoul, shadow, 4 
wight, 7 ghast, 10 wraith, 13 mummy, 16 spectre, 20 vampire 
Magic Items: As above, and scroll of 1 spell (commune) 

Spells: 5 LI, 5 L2, 2 L3 

Personality notes: You are fresh from training, having recently 
reached the status of Canon. Though you are holding back your 
sinful pride, you still emphasize the title, and suggest to others 
that they use it when addressing you. You are gentle and kind, 
with no prejudices against any creature. You believe that all dif 
ferences can be solved by talking things out reasonably, and often 
play the role of peacemaker and arbiter for party disputes. You 
are willing to help any who seek your aid. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 



Name: Rayche Firebrand 
Race/sex: Human Male 
Alignment: Neutral Good 
Level (XP): 8 (140,672) 

Hit Points: 57 

Abilities: S 18(49), W 10, Co 16, 

I 9, D 14, Ch 17 

Armor Class: 0 
Armor Type: Plate mail, shield +2 
Weapons: Longsworcl +i, two-handed sword, dagger 
Proficiencies: Longsword, two-handed sword, dagger, spear, 
short bow, scimitar 

Magic Items: As above, and ring ofwarmth 

Personality notes: You are driven by a need to help others fight 
against injustice and evil. Your methods are simple: try the direct 
approach first; when that fails, get sneaky. Bending the laws of 
the land is all right if it serves a greater good. As a result, while 
your previous adventures have been successful, you are not wel 
come in several kingdoms, as you have incited the populace to 
overthrow tyrannical rulers, refused to pay taxes, and encouraged 
court intrigues. You have promised yourself to avoid unnecessary 
conflicts-until you find a cause that will fail without your help. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 



HgOntlcgi? 

Name: Krondar Hammerhand 
Race/sex: Dwarf male 
Alignment: Lawful Good 
Level (XP): 7 (72,358) 

Hit points: 58 

Abilities: S 17, W 10, Co 17, 

19, D 13, Ch 11 

Armor Class: 1 
Armor type: Chain mail +2, shield + 1 
Weapons: Hammer + 1, dagger, light crossbow 
Proficiencies: Club, dagger, hammer, spear, Shortsword. light 
crossbow 

Magic Items: As above 

Personality notes: You are very open-minded. You don't even 
mind the presence of elves, since one of them saved your life. You 
are an excellent strategist, once a general in the dwarven forces. 
Your background affects your dealings with others, as you try to 
keep everyone working together in an organized manner. You 
may become irritated when they resist proper discipline. When 
you are overexcited, you lapse into dwarvish without realizing 
it-which causes others to worry, as you keep your hammer in 
hand most of the time. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 



nSaHrngg(r)!? 

Name: Deric Blackstone 
Race/sex: Human male 
Alignment: Neutral Good 
Level (XP): 6 (71,911) 

Hit points: 43 

Abilities: S 16, W 15, Co 16, 

I 13, D 10, Ch 14 

Armor Class: 1 
Armor type: Plate mail, shield + 1 
Weapons: Longsword +2, 2 daggers, longbow 
Proficiencies: Dagger, longsword, spear, longbow 
Magic Items: As above, and potion of plant control 

Personality notes: Abandoned in the woods at a young age, you 
learned the woodland ways as you grew. Your only friends were 
animals and birds until a kindly ranger adopted and educated 
you. You haven't had much contact with the outside world, and 
don't really understand the customs and prejudices of the 
human race. Some laugh at your speech and habits, so you copy 
the ways (and even speech patterns) of those around you when 
adventuring with a group. You harbor only good will toward all 
living things, and are willing to help wherever needed. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 



17 













Magp(g°[0S(gff 

Name: Nicholas Mysticus 
Race/sex: Human male 
Alignment: Lawful Good 
Level (XP): 6 (51,993) 

Hit points: 17 

Abilities: S 9, W 10, Co 10, 

I 17, D 16, Ch 10 

Armor Class: 7 
Armor type: Robes, ring of protection + 1 
Weapons: Dagger + 11 + 2 vs. Large, silver dagger, normal dag 
ger 

Proficiencies: Dagger 

Magic Items: As above, and scroll of 3 spells (knock, dispel 
magic, charm monster) 

Spells: 4LI, 2L2, 2L3 

Spell book: LI- charm person, comprehend languages, magic 
missile, read magic, spider climb, unseen senumt 

L2- detect invisibility, knock, pyrotechnics, rope 
trick, stinking cloud 

L3- fireball, lightning bolt, water breathing 

Personality notes: Others with less tact often refer to you as 
"awful good." You have often been accused of forcing your val 
ues and beliefs on others, though you see it as educated guid 
ance. You are criticized for voicing your thoughts so often that 
you seem sarcastic and unpleasant at times. You suggest that oth 
ers simply cannot see the obvious. Nevertheless, you have only 
the best of intentions, and will risk yourself to help an ally in 
trouble. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 



Name: Lintra Silverleaf 
Race/sex: Half-elf female 
Alignment: Chaotic Good 
Level (XP): 5/5 (29,081/29,081) 

Hit points: 22 

Abilities: S 13, W 12, Co 12, 

I 16, D 15, Ch 13 

Armor Class: 2 
Armor type: Chain mail + 1, shield 
Weapons carried: Dagger + 1, dagger, longsword, longbow 
Proficiencies: Dagger, spear, longsword, longbow, sling (as 
fighter); staff (as magic-user) 

Magic Items: As above, and cloak of elvenkind, 4 arrows + 1 
Spells: 4 LI, 2 L2, 1 L3 

Spell book: LI- detect magic, hold portal, read magic, sleep, 
ventriloquism 

L2- ESP, invisibility, magic mouth, strength 
L3- fireball, fly, slow 

Personality notes: You are a free-wheeling, outgoing adventurer, 
with many tales to tell-both true and otherwise. You are proud 
ofyour lineage. You never hesitate to voice your opinion, though 
you tend to phrase it as example of some thing that happened "in 
the past" (describing things that are always colorful but not nec 
essarily accurate). You watch your comrades carefully, and if any 
one seems annoyed with you, you start voicing opinions that 
coincide with theirs, to encourage their friendship. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 




Name: Slu Tippy 
Race/sex: Halfling female 
Alignment: Chaotic Neutral 
Level (XP): 7 (44,722) 

Hit points: 30 

Abilities: S 12, W 8, Co 15, 

I 10, D 17, Ch 9 

Armor Class: 6 
Armor type: Leather 
Weapons: Shortsword +1, 3 daggers, silver dagger, sling & 20 
bullets 

Proficiencies: Dagger, sling, Shortsword 
Thief skills: PP 70, OL 67 ,"f/RT 55, MS 70, HS 63, HN 30, CW 
79, RL 30 

Magic Items: As above, and rope ofclimbing 

Personality notes: You are a sly creature with the heart of a trick 
ster. You refer to your profession as "treasure finder." Though 
you like the stuffy folk with whom you adventure, you relish 
playing practical jokes on them when they least expect it. When 
asked for your opinion, you enjoy miming your ideas, to silently 
show how they should work. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 




$nft(gff/nflflQnd](r)onQg3ft 


Name: Alberich Delversson 
Race/sex: Gnome male 
Alignment: Neutral Good 
Level (XP): 5/4 (21,512/16,512) 
Hit points: 29 

Abilities: S 14, W 12, Co 16, I 18, 
D 17, Ch 16 


Armor Class: -1 

Armor type: Plate mail, shield 

Weapons: Shortsword + 1, hand axe, dagger, 3 darts, sling & 20 
bullets 

Proficiencies: Hand axe, dart, sling, spear, Shortsword (as 
fighter); dagger (as illusionist) 

Magic Items: As above, and bag of holding (500 pound capacity) 

Spells: 2LI, 1 L2 

Spell book: LI- change self, detect illusion, hypnotism, read 
illusionist magic, wall offog 
L2- blur, invisibility 


Personality notes: You grumble a lot about any mission you 
undertake, and you have the typical gnomish black humor which 
makes humans and their ilk a bit nervous. Nevertheless, you 
don't hesitate to throw in a few "gallows" jokes when your opin 
ion is requested. You have a great fondness for short folk of all 
sorts, and sympathy for the problems resulting from their (and 
your) diminutive stature. 

(c)1985 TSR, Inc. 


18 










































































end of its flat surface, an iron door covers a 1- 
foot-square compartment. At the other end of 
the workbench, a bowl filled with green jelly 
gives off acrid fumes. 

The powdered silver is worth 10 gp. One 
aquamarine lens is worth 300 gp. The unicorn 
skull will bring 200 gp from the right buyer. 
You may assign other values as fit your cam 
paign; they should range from a few coppers 
to as much as 100 gp per item. 

Anything placed in the small compartment 
is immediately disintegrated (as the 6th level 
magic-user spell, but affecting a lesser volume) 
when the door is closed. This compartment was 
designed for disposal of the hazardous and nox 
ious waste products of alchemical experimenta 
tion. It cannot be safely removed or tampered 
with. The green jelly is an incomplete potion of 
plant control presently poison. A drawer in the 
workbench contains a number of small cages, a 
bellows, and other implements. There is a cru 
cible in the furnace that holds molten gold 
worth 250 gp. 

Baltron had converted this chamber into his 
alchemy lab. Leptor and Virna have continued 
that use, and have been trying to duplicate 
Baltron's experiments with less disastrous 
results. 

11. LIBRARY 

This area was one of Baltron's greatest 
secrets. All spell effects here were cast by him, 
at 16th level magic use. 

Dusty shelves of books, scrolls, and tomes 
line the walls of this room from floor to ceil 
ing. All are built into the walls. A single desk 
and chair stand in the center of the room. One 
shelf on the east wall, holding twelve books, is 
enclosed by glass doors. 

A small mouse hole penetrates the back of 
the lowest shelf along the west wall, leading 
into the closet (area 13). If Leptor flees into 
this room, he drinks his potion of diminution 
and takes that route, continuing under the 
door and into the bedroom (area 12), the hall 
(9), and out from there. 

The desk has one drawer, secured by 
Baltron's wizard lock, but the drawer is empty. 
One shelf section on the north wall can be 
pulled away to reveal a secret compartment. 
Treat this as a secret door for detection pur 
poses. The compartment contains two large 
ivory keys that radiate magic; each is 6 inches 
long and worth 50 gp. Any one of these will 
operate the teleporter in room 14. 

The glass doors of the one shelf are wizard 
locked, and the glass is unbreakable glassteel. 
The 12 books therein also radiate magic, but 
none have visible titles. 

Originally, there were 15 magic books behind 
the glass. The three missing books were all nas 
tily trapped, and Leptor destroyed them (and 
they nearly destroyed him) in his searching. His 


experiences with these prompted him to leave 
the remaining ones alone. 

A search of the non-magical texts in the 
library will quickly reveal one that describes 
the Cult of the Black Flame (written in the 
common tongue). It prominently mentions a 
password (which is needed in area 28, though 
that detail is not given). The other works deal 
with psionics, magic, marsh and swamp life, 
legends of the gods, beasts and monsters, dis 
eases, leadership, history, religion, elemen- 
tals, summonings, and grammar of various 
languages. The complete collection will allow 
a sage of the Supernatural and Unusual (such 
as old Demetrios) to gain a + 10% bonus 
whenever the base percentage roll for knowl 
edge is made. Portions of the collection 
retrieved augment that roll proportionately. 

Magical Tonies 

a. The magic on this book is an unknown 
type; the book is impressed with strong psy 
chic traumas. It deals with psionics, but any 
psionically-endowed character touching it is 
immediately hit by a 75-point psychic crush. 
This effect may recur indefinitely. 

b. The magic here is an alteration. This tome tells 
how to build psionic powers. If the reader cannot 
use psionics, the tome has no effect. If the reader 
is psionic, the study confers 25 more psionic 
strength points immediately, and (at the usual 
rate, with level progression) one new attack mode, 
one new defense mode, and one minor discipline. 
If the reader is not psionic but is not prohibited 
from such powers, the study pennits a check for 
them at double normal chances, even if a previous 
roll for psionics has failed. However, if the roll is 
more than 30% under the minimum needed to 
gain such abilities, the victim is struck by catatonia 
(insanity) that can only be cured by a heal spell. 
The tome vanishes either after proper use or after 
causing three cases of catatonia. 

c. This book's magic is an evocation. This is a 
religious manual on Lawful Evil practices, its 
clasp is guarded by a fire trap (Dmg ld4 + 16 
in a 5-foot radius). 

d. This is Baltron's diary. Its magic is an altera 
tion. The first page is written in explosive 
runes (Dmg 6d4 + 6 in a 5-foot radius, reader 
gets no saving throw). It documents Baltron's 
attempt to summon Nakimas, the great spirit 
of the marsh. Baltron theorized that Nakimas 
is not an individual entity, but rather a com 
posite life force of all the myriad living crea 
tures of the swamp. 

e. The only magic on this book is an illusion/ 
phantasm. Nystul's magic aura. The book is 
about leadership, but no Charisma is gained 
from its lore. 

f. This text is a dissertation on marsh diseases. 
Its magic is an illusion/phantasm, another 
application of Nystul's magic aura. 


g. This rare text details the life cycle of the 
beholder. Its magic is an alteration; a magic 
mouth that cries "Help! Help! I'm being 
stolen!" when the book is touched. 

h. This is an account of the life of Keswin, a 
good high priest. Its pages somehow magically 
glow when touched for easy reading; this 
magic is an alteration. 

i. This book, bearing necromantic magic, is a 
cursed manual of flesh golems. After its direc 
tions are followed, the completed golem will 
go berserk at the end of the second round of 
its first melee. 

j. Necromantic magic can be detected here. 
This false book has a square space inside, in 
which rests a scarab of death. 

k. This wizard locked spellbook contains eight 
first level magic-user spells. Select new ones 
for your campaign, using the spell list in 
Unearthed Arcana. 

l. This book bears conjuration magic, and 
radiates evil; its subject matter is demonology. 
It contains the spells cacodemon and 
spiritwrack on vellum pages, and also the 
truenames of one demon each of types I 
through V. Each time the book is touched, 
however, there is a 5 % chance that a type I, II, 
or III demon (by random roll) will appear vol 
untarily (not summoned or controlled) and 
immediately attack the reader. Folded and 
carefully hidden in the book's spine is a scroll 
of protection from possession. 

12. BALTRON'S BEDROOM 

This well-furnished bedchamber contains a 
large double bed, a dresser, and a nightstand 
upon which rests a stack of books and a small 
shaving basin. A mirror and razor lie by the basin. 

The top dresser drawer contains pots of cos 
metics, perfumes, and salves, a tortoise shell 
brush and comb, a large felt mouse stuffed 
with catnip, and several neatly folded gowns. 
The lower drawer contains men's clothing. 
The hand mirror and razor radiate magic. The 
mirror shows any cerebral parasites infesting 
the person who uses it. The razor is magically 
sharp (as a sword ofsharpness) but cannot cut 
living flesh. It is useless as a weapon but excel 
lent for shaving. 

The books on the nightstand are Leptor's spell 
books. If Leptor's charmed mimic died in the 
entry hall ambush, the nightstand is mere furni 
ture; it is otherwise this creature. If present, the 
mimic will attack any intruder except Leptor. The 
spell books contain 10 first level spells, 8 second 
level spells, 6 third level spells, 4 fourth level 
spells, and 2 fifth level spells. They include the 
spells Leptor has memorized and others that you 
may select as desired. 

Mimic: AC 7; MV 3"; HD 7; hp 18; #AT 1; 

Dmg 3-12; SA glue; SD camouflage 


21 













13. CLOSET 

The door to this small room fits poorly. 
Within, various robes, cloaks, shirts, and 
other garments hang from hooks set into the 
walls. A pile of wooden boxes stands against 
the back wall. 

The clothing belongs to Leptor, Virna, and 
Hardrack. Virna's fur cape, worth 100 gp, will 
be uncovered if the closet is thoroughly 
searched. The boxes at the end of the closet 
contain Baltron's old garments, now mil 
dewed. They conceal a secret compartment at 
the back of the closet that contains a pair of 
boots of levitation and a magical ivory key 
identical to the keys hidden in the library. 

14. TELEPORTATION CHAMBER 

The chamber floor is almost completely 
covered by a round stone platform 6 inches 
high and 9 feet in diameter. The platform has 
a silver rim, a keyhole at its center, and five 
complex runes spaced evenly around its sur 
face. Show the players illustration #5 of the 
teleportation platform (page 20, pullout sec 
tion). 

The runes radiate magic. If a read magic 
spell is employed, they translate as (reading 
clockwise) ANNOTIUM SHINER PAWMS 
DALINS NOUDENG. When the letters are 
unscrambled, the words individually become 
mountain, shrine, swamp, island, and 
dungeon, respectively. 

All of the magical ivory keys (found in 
rooms 11 or 12) will fit the keyhole. When one 
is placed in a keyhole, a glowing light appears, 
forming an arrow pointing at the "annotium" 
rune. Though made only of light, this arrow 
can be moved by physical or magical means, 
and can be turned to point at any one rune. 
When this is done, the chosen rune begins to 
glow, its brightness increasing with each pass 
ing second. If the key is quickly turned again, 
the arrow may be reset before any effect 
occurs. If the key is removed, the rune stops 
glowing, the arrow vanishes, and nothing 
happens. 

If the arrow is not moved for 3 segments, 
the glowing of the rune reaches full brilliance, 
and everything on the platform is teleported 
to the destination represented by the glowing 
rune. The key used is also teleported, arriving 
in an identical keyhole in the center of the 
platform of destination, except in one case. 
No platform exists at the "dungeon" destina 
tion, so the key reappears here in room 14, 
again in the keyhole. 

Those teleporting to the DUNGEON arrive 
in room 20, cell A. 

The destination of the SWAMP rune is a 
point one mile from the keep, at the end of 
the roadway (Map 1, Al). 

The SHRINE rune sends users to room 25, a 
matching platform. 


The ISLAND rune is keyed to a far place, 
the Isle of Banburn, which is not detailed in 
this adventure. Users arrive on a platform atop 
a tower in the midst of the ruin, once a great 
stronghold of the Cult of the Black Flame. 
That platform has only one rune, readable as 
"WROTE", and a keyhole. It functions in 
similar fashion, sending its occupants back to 
the TOWER (this room). The Isle is uninhab 
ited except for thousands of sea birds, and 
covered by heavy jungle. It is so small that the 
characters can see the whole place without 
leaving the platform. 

Users of the MOUNTAIN room teleport 
back to this chamber. The rune is keyed to a 
fortress of the Cult atop a high mountain, but 
this rebound effect has occurred ever since 
that peak became an active volcano. The for 
tress, of course, has long since become a pud 
dle of molten slag. 

15. CHAMBER OF LIGHT 

It is difficult to tell that the south and west 
walls and the roof of this chamber have been 
destroyed. Only the humid, swampy breeze 
blowing through the hole where the rubble of 
the inner wall has been removed gives any clue 
that the room has been breached. The entire 
chamber is so blindingly illuminated by a 
strange green light that nothing else can be 
seen. 

The light emanates from a disc-shaped area 
3 feet off the floor in the center of the room. 
No source for the light can be found; it simply 
appears from this volume of air. The beam of 
light shines upward, passing through the hole 
in the roof to create a giant, gradually fading 
cone of light above the keep. The light 
remains very bright to a height of 500 feet, 
then rapidly fades. 

The light is strongly magical, but is treated 
as if produced by a 32nd level magic-user. It 
ages living creatures and causes decay or corro 
sion in any inanimate object other than stone. 
The effect produces the equivalent of one year 
of aging or ten years of decay and corrosion per 
round of exposure to the light. If a living crea 
ture dies as a result of the magical aging, that 
creature is immediately reincarnated (using 
the druid spell chart to find the new form). 
The life force instantly occupies the new form 
somewhere at ground level, 101-200 yards 
from this beacon. 

If the light is blocked or turned off, the liz 
ard men for several miles around the keep will 
react. King Yiss will eventually hear of it and 
immediately march on the keep to slay the 
ones committing this sacrilege. (See page 4 for 
details.) 

16. DAMAGED ROOM 

The stairway ascends to a large room with a 
10-foot gap in its west wall. The chimney of 


the alchemy lab furnace (area 10) passes 
through the floor and the roof, at the north 
east corner of the room. A winged reptilian 
creature lies against the warmth of the flue, 
sleeping cozily. 

Three wyverns make their lair in the 
remains of this room. These creatures usually 
fly out of the marsh to hunt. At any given 
time, 1-2 wyverns are present. The absent 
wyvern will return 1-100 turns later. The crea 
ture curled against the chimney (40 hp) never 
leaves the lair because it has an injured wing 
and cannot fly. If a second is present, it is in 
the southwest corner. The lair contains 
numerous bones but no treasure. 

Wyverns (3): AC 3; MV 6724" (MC:E); HD 
7+7; hp 50, 43, 40; #AT 2; Dmg 
2-16/1-6; ALN(E); SA poison tail 

17. ROOF 

The stone roof of the keep is flat, sur 
rounded by a 4-foot crenelated battlement. 
Large sections of the room in the southwest 
and northwest corners have collapsed. The 
green light shines up through the gaping hole 
at the southwest corner. The roof is bare 
except for debris. 

There is a 50% chance per round that the 
wyverns (room 16) will notice activity on the 
roof, and investigate. 

There is a 75% chance that anyone 
approaching within 5 feet of the jagged edge 
of the roof will cause a partial collapse and 
take 2-12 points of damage while plunging to 
the area directly below that point (second 
floor). 


22 












Map # 4: Dungeon Level One 










Dungeon Level One 

18. ROUGH-HEWN CHAMBER 

The walls of this empty room are rough 
rock, worked but not dressed. A thick layer of 
dust carpets the floor, unmarked by tracks of 
any sort. A ladder built into the west wall dis 
appears upward into a square shaft. A narrow 
corridor leads east 15 feet to a door, which is 
locked and barred on this (west) side. 

One of the keys from room 7 fits the lock on 
this door. Anyone teleporting to room 20 can 
not force this door without magic, since the 
bar is on the west side. 

19. JAILER'S OFFICE 

The walls and contents of this room are 
thickly covered with brown and yellow mold. 
Water drips from a crack in the ceiling and dis 
appears between the flagstones of the floor. 
The room contains a crudely made desk and 
matching chair, both unusually large and 
badly rotted. A long mold-covered lump is 
atop the desk. A normal door is centered in 
the south wall, opposite the desk. A door in 
the east wall is of prison type, made entirely of 
bars. 

The mold is harmless; it can easily be 
scraped off or burnt away. One of the keys 
found in room 7 will open the barred door; 
the others fit the cell doors and the normal 
door leading to room 21. The mound upon 
the desk conceals a large wooden club. The 
desk drawers are not locked. They contain 
three empty bottles, a set of rusty manacles 
with a key, a ring, and a rotting bag. The bag 
contains 55 cp and 12 sp. The ring is magical, 
a ring of spell storing containing two scone to 
flesh spells. 

A 3-foot-square trap door in the southwest 
corner of the room is simply a flagstone (a 
secret door concealed further by mold). It has 
no handle, but can be raised by prying. The 
floor of the 5-foot-deep pit below is loose rub 
ble. Lying atop the rubble is an intact adven 
turer's pack. The pack contains a few pieces of 
typical equipment and small tract promoting 
the Cult of of the Black Flame. The word 
"Surteek" is hand-written on the first page, 
and the word "Sosume" is similarly inscribed 
inside the back cover. Both words are mean 
ingless, even to magical aid. The first is the 
name of the pack's owner, a former Cult mem 
ber who has become the apparition in room 20 
(Cell B). The second is the password needed to 
calm the guardian in area 35 and corresponds 
to the word that can be found in the Library, 
room 11. 

This pit is actually a shaft 100 feet deep, 
connecting to the second dungeon level 
(rooms 25-37). It was filled with rocks when 
the teleporter system was completed. Nearly 
6,000 man-hours of work would be required 


to clear the shaft without magical aid. 

20. JAIL 

This large room is divided into six areas by 
bars of typical prison type. The bars are intact 
and firmly set into the solid rock walls, ceil 
ing, and floor. One area, 5 feet by 20 feet in 
size, is lined with doors of the same style. It 
provides access between room 19 and the 
other five areas of this room, which are cells. 
Four of the cells (A, B, D, and E) are each 10 
feet square; the largest, at the east end (C), is 
15 by 25 feet. 

Each of the five cell doors is locked, but the 
door to room 19 will open easily. The cells con 
tain decayed straw, wooden benches, and 
bowls filled with the moldy remains of ancient 
meals. The large cell (C) is also equipped with 
seven sets of manacles anchored in the east 
wall. 

Cell A may contain a living being, if one 
has teleported here from room 14. Cell B con 
tains a human skeleton, still clad in rotted 
clothing. If these remains are disturbed, an 
apparition appears 3-6 rounds later; see below 
for details. 

A secret panel in the wall of Cell A conceals 
a leather scrollcase containing a scroll of one 
clerical spell, word of recall. If used by a cleric 
who has not previously prepared an appropri 
ate sanctuary as a destination, the spell effect 
transports the caster to a point atop the main 
altar of his or her home church. 

The secret door at the back of cell E opens 
into an escape tunnel that leads 100 feet to a 
cavern. If this passage is taken, read the fol 
lowing aloud, and then refer to area 22. 


The secret door opens to reveal a long tun 
nel, about 10 feet wide and 10 feet high, 
extending due south. After you proceed 
about 50 feet, you hear guttural, argumen 
tative voices ahead. You cannot make out 
what they are saying, but the speakers 
must be large, judging by the sounds they 
make. 


The Remains in Cell B 

The skeleton here radiates both evil and 
magic. Its long, bony fingers clutch an 
antique medallion. This device sports the 
symbol of the Cult of the Black Flame. It is 
worth 250 gp to certain scholars (such as 
Demetrios), but if shown to any other person 
in this region, the bearer will be accused of 
membership in that vile organization, and 
prosecuted if such is possible. 

The skeleton is that of poor Surteek, a Cult 
member placed here for disciplinary reasons 
but abandoned when the keep was evacuated. 
His spirit lingers here in the form of an appari 
tion, but he will not arise unless his remains 


are disturbed (including the medallion). If 
disturbed, a ghostly skeletal form rises from 
the remains 3-6 rounds later, and moves 
quickly (24" rate) toward the vandal. 

Unfortunately, the medallion is needed in 
area 35, for use against the guardian. If the 
characters take it, they must deal with Sur 
teek; if they do not, they will have a tough 
time later. 

Surteek's apparition can be Turned by a 
cleric (treat as a spectre). He can also be immo 
bilized by two methods. If called by his name, 
which can be found on materials in the secret 
pit in room 19, he stops and faces the person 
speaking. He may then be conversed with nor 
mally, and will describe his doom and ask to 
be either left undisturbed or released. He will 
reveal the command word (sosume) if asked, 
and will even reveal that it calms the guardian 
of the Black Flame (though not its location). 
He will not speak at all, however, unless first 
called by name. 

Surteek can also be immobilized by appli 
cation of the spell needed to release his spirit, 
an exorcise. The apparition is effectively para 
lyzed (but cannot be attacked) when that spell 
is begun, and remains so until the spell is 
either interrupted or completed (the latter 
possibly requiring up to 100 turns of time, as 
explained in the spell description). 

If Surteek's remains are restored to their 
original condition (clutching the medallion), 
the apparition vanishes instantly. 

If the apparition catches its victim, no hit 
roll is needed. The monster has closed its bony 
fingers around the victim's throat, and the 
player must roll 3d6. If the total is less than 
the character's intelligence score, the attack 
has no effect; otherwise, another 3d6 roll 
must be made. If this second roll is less than 
the victim's Constitution, he or she flees in 
terror for 1-4 rounds; otherwise, the victim 
falls dead of fright (treat as immediate reduc 
tion to -20 hp, but with no visible wounds). 

If not stopped, Surteek will attack all the 
intruders. He remains ethereal, immune to all 
attacks, except during the round in which he 
is attacking. If attacked on the ethereal plane, 
he is AC 7 (#AT 1, Dmg 1-12). 

Apparition: AC 0; MV 24 "; HD 8; hp 56; #AT 
1; Dmg special; SD ethereality (immune 
to attacks) or brief appearance (hit only by 
magic or silver weapons); AL CE 

21. TORTURE CHAMBER 

A heavy layer of dust mercifully obscures 
most details of this room, and nothing of 
value remains here. If the pieces are dusted 
off, several bizarre artifacts are revealed. Large 
iron boots stand empty before a tall chair, 
from which hang the rotting remains of 
leather straps. A device the size of a bedframe, 


23 














with a crank mechanism at its head, is over 
shadowed by a huge pair of pliers hanging 
from the south wall. An iron cauldron filled 
with dirty oil stands next to a brass brazier, the 
latter green with tarnish. Three branding 
irons lean against the brazier. 

22. CAVERN 

This area is irregular and large, the ceiling 
ranging from 15 to 25 feet in height. This is 
the lair of 10 ogres. Their positions (and that 
of their one captive) are noted by small circles 
on the map. 

The 100-foot-long tunnel from the jail 
(room 20) opens into the north end of this 
cavern. 

If the pit area south of the keep (A8) is exca 
vated, two corridor openings may be found; 
the northern leads into this area. Two ogres 
nearby will hear the sounds of digging and 
alert their fellows. 

In an alcove northwest of the cavern, one 
ogre sits watching his bound captive, a live liz 
ard man. Just outside that alcove, five ogres 
are clustered around a small fire, over which 
hangs a boiling kettle. These five are arguing 
heatedly over the proper proportion of frogs 
to lizards in their recipe. One ogre is busily 
drawing pictures on the cavern wall (just west 
of the north corridor) with a piece of charcoal, 
and another is taking a nap in the east alcove. 

A large pool of clear water in the western 
pan of the cavern is used by the residents but 
poorly cared for, now becoming polluted. A 
passage to the southwest leads to the lair of 
three fog giants, who are feared and served by 
the ogres. 

Five other ogres and one fog giant were 
slain by Antarcus (G8) and his gang during 


the last month. They are now all in hiding, 
waiting for an opportunity to escape and fear 
ful of those living above. They have explored 
the north tunnel, but have not found the 
secret door entrance to the cells. 

Ogres (10): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 + 1; hp 29, 
27, 25, 23, 21, 19, 17, 15, 13, 11; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-10; ALCE 

Lizard Man: AC 5; MV 67/12"; HD 2 + 1; 
hp 11;#AT 3; Dmg 1 -2/1 -2/1 -8; AL N 

23. SOUT HE AST CAVE 

This area, southeast of the main cavern, is 
littered with bones and filthy animal skins. 
This is the temporary lair of three fog giants, 
masters of the ogres in area 22. Plenty of loose 
boulders lie about for their use against 
intruders. 

Three leather sacks stand against the south 
wall; these contain the giants' treasures. The 
first and second sacks contain 8,000 sp each; 
the third contains 3,000 gp and a potion of 
climbing. 

Fog Giants (3): AC 1; MV 15 "; HD 14; hp 66, 
58, 49; #AT 1; Dmg 4-14; AL NE; SA hurl 
rocks; SD surprised on 1 only 

24. EMERGENCY EXIT 

If the party has not cleared the refuse in the 
pit (A8), that must be done before the south 
corridor leading to area 24 can be reached. 

The tunnel between the pit and area 24 has 
been blocked by some debris from a partial 
collapse, but the refuse can be cleared by 1-4 
man-hours (6-24 man-turns) of work. Beyond 
the blockage, the tunnel continues south for 
100 feet and ends in a locked door. No keys 


found in this adventure will fit the lock. 

A ladder built into the south wall of this 20- 
foot-square room leads to a trap door in the 
southwest corner of the ceiling. The room is 
empty except for a chest in the northwest cor 
ner. The chest contains 50 feet of rope, an 
empty leather backpack, an empty tinder box, 
a one-inch stub of tallow candle, an empty 
water skin, 40 gp, three 100 gp gems, and a 
suit of clothing. The chest has a false bottom, 
and the concealed compartment contains a 
magical cloak. If the cloak is touched, a glyph 
of warding lining the compartment detonates 
(Electrical, Dmg 24 points). The cloak can be 
turned into wings of flying by use of the 
proper command word, which unfortunately 
is not included here. 

The trap door in the ceiling is secured by a 
bolt, which can easily be drawn. Iron rungs in 
the south wall then continue up a square 
shaft, which ends 40 feet up in another trap 
door, again bolted. This is yard area A7. 
When this bolt is drawn, the door falls open, 
and the foot of soil atop it pours into the 
shaft. This is not detectable as a trap. 

Tell the player of the character opening the 
door to roll 3d8. If the total is equal to or less 
than the character's strength score, the victim 
holds the rungs tightly enough to avoid fall 
ing. However, if the roll is greater than the 
character's strength score, the character falls, 
and must make a normal hit roll. If that 
attempt hits AC 5 or better, the victim grabs a 
rung in passing, and takes only 1-6 points of 
damage from the incident. If a miss is indi 
cated, the victim falls the 50 feet to the floor 
of room 24, taking 5-30 points of damage on 
impact. 
















Dungeon Level Two 

This dungeon level is normally accessible 
only from area 14 of the keep, using the tele 
porter system. During his stay in the keep, 
Baltron discovered and made use of this area. 
Leptor has not found any ivory keys, and is 
extremely frustrated because he knows the 
purpose of the platform (in room 14) but can 
not activate it. Neither Antarcus nor any ofhis 
band are aware of this dungeon level. 


25. HALL OF DOORS AND STATUES 

Read the following aloud if the PCs have 
arrived by teleporter platform. 


You see nothing but blue spots for a short 
while after the brilliant flash, but your eyes 
adjust quickly. You are still on a round 
stone platform, 6 inches tall and 9 feet in 
diameter, but it bears only a single rune; 
you must be in another place. A key is in 
the keyhole in the center. 

The platform is centered in a room 30 
feet square, with an iron door centered in 
each wall. One door is adorned by a 
demonic face in bas-relief, but the others 
are plain. You don't know which direction 
is north. Four statues stand in the corners, 
their heads nearly reaching the 20-foot 
ceiling of the room. The creatures depicted 
are an efreeti, sahuagin, raven, and xorn. 


Only one rune, magically readable as 
WROTE (Tower), is on this platform. The two 
sources of magic in the room are the platform 
itself and an alteration (actually three magic 
mouth spells) on the demonic face of the 
south door. 

Pipes hidden in the four statues allow the 
room to be completely flooded with water and 
then drained. The floor of the room (but not 
the platform) is pressure sensitive. If the east, 
north, or west door is open, this trap will not 
become active. Otherwise, when the floor 
supports 50 or more pounds of added weight, 
water starts gushing from the mouths of the 
statues, and each of the four doors emit three 
loud clicks. The demonic face says "Ah, ha, 
ha, ha! You fools have sealed your doom!" 
and laughs evilly. The room floods to the ceil 
ing in 10 rounds, remains for 25 rounds, and 
then drains away in 5 rounds, leaving only a 
few shallow puddles. The teleporter ceases to 
function when water reaches its surface, one 
round after the trap is triggered, and is not 
usable again until the water has drained away. 

The south door (with the face) is a false one. 
If it is touched, the demonic face on the door 
says "You shall never get by me!" and chuck 
les and gurgles horribly. If this door is opened, 
it reveals a dead end six inches behind it. If 


any other door is touched, the face says "You 
are wasting your time, fools! You will be dead 
in minutes. lust sit back and enjoy your 
deaths, like good little prisoners!" The east 
door, if opened, reveals a dead end seemingly 
identical to that southward, but a secret door 
therein gives access to the corridor leading to 
areas 26 and 27. 

26. HALL OF THE GORGON 


The hallway proceeds east 60 feet from the 
secret door, where a side passage branches 
south. The side passage is also 10 feet wide 
and tall, and ends in an unusual circular 
door. Looking ahead, you see a 20-foot by 
30-foot chamber. Within it is another 
round platform, though this one seems to 
have no rune or keyhole. A stone bull's 
head is mounted on the east wall. 


Show the players illustration #1 (top of 
page 14) to show the door to room 27. Sharp- 
eyed characters see some horizontal marks on 
the door as well. If they investigate or can see 
clearly at a distance, show the players illustra 
tion #6 (bottom of page 20). Refer to area 27 
for more details. 

The scaly stone head in room 26 is magical. 
It is no mere decoration, actually protruding 
from a place behind the wall in which the life 
essences of three gorgons are magically kept. 
When any living creature stands on the plat 
form, the head breathes a petrifying mist. 
Each creature on the platform must then 
make a successful Saving Throw vs. Petrifica 
tion or turn to stone. The mist is breathed out 
each round in which a living creature is on the 
platform, but no more than 12 times per day. 
The cult used this device often, both to pun 
ish misbehavior and to ensure that no pris 
oners escaped. Two very lifelike statues of 
warriors stand to either side of the platform. 

27. FALSE TREASURY 

If you have not already shown the players 
illustration #6 (three rods), do so at this time. 
The peculiar round door is 7 feet in diameter 
and 1 foot thick, made of layers of steel, lead, 
and granite. The hinges are not visible. 

The door can be opened when each of the 
rods is moved to the correct numeral. You may 
select the three correct positions for the rods. 
A thief's Open Locks attempt must be 
checked separately for each sliding rod. A 
knock spell will cause two of the rods to move 
to their proper positions. 

The door opens to reveal a treasure vault. 
Read the following text aloud. 


The walls of the vault are made of steel. 
Life-sized statues of a centaur, an armored 


man, a robed man, and a young woman 
stand near the entrance. Near the south 
wall beyond the statues are four wooden 
chests, their lids wide open. A closed iron 
chest and two large wooden crates are by 
the east wall. 


The vault is insulated with layers of steel, 
lead, and granite in the same manner as the 
door. The four statues are actually creatures 
petrified by the gorgon head in room 26, 
placed here for storage. The centaur is Caer- 
ron, companion of a seventh level human 
ranger named Andar, who is now the 
"armored man" statue. The two were hired to 
find and return the young son of a local noble 
who was abducted by the cult. The young 
woman is Theandra, daughter of a powerful 
noble in a nearby kingdom. She was abducted 
and held for ransom, but the ransom never 
arrived and, rather than feed useless merchan 
dise, the cult petrified her. The fourth statue 
is Torm Blackmace, a fourth level cleric of the 
Cult of the Black Flame, who was turned to 
stone for allowing a prisoner to die too quickly 
under torture. These four have been statues 
for nearly a century. 

If both Caerron and Andar are rescued, they 
offer to repay their debt by aiding the party until 
the seeds are roasted and safely returned to Deme- 
trios. If either is restored alone, he thanks his res 
cuers profusely, but hurries off to find some way of 
rescuing his comrade. Theandra can offer no 
reward; the last member of her family died 60 
years ago. Blackmace, the evil cleric, will fail to 
understand that the cult has gone, and will 
attempt to detain the party until they can be 
questioned by his superiors. He has nothing of 
value except a medallion of the cult, identical to 
the one in cell B (room 20), that is hidden by his 
garb. 

Centaur Caerron (SS 95%); AC 5; MV 18"; 
HD 4; hp 24; #AT 2; Drag 1-6/1-6; AL 
NG; composite longbow, 25 arrows 

Andar, human 7th level ranger (SS 88%): AC 

7 (leather & shield); MV 12 HD 8; hp 41; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2-9 (longsword) or 2-5 (dag 
ger); AL LG 

S 15, I 16, W 14, D 14, Co 14, Ch 15 

Theandra (normal human woman, SS 85%): 
AC 10; MV 12"; HD Vt; hp 4; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-4 (silver dagger); AL CG 

Torm Blackmace (human 4th level cleric, SS 

85%); AC 10 (robes); MV 12"; HD 4; hp 
19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type (none car 
ried); SA spells (none memorized); AL LE 
S 14, I 11, W 17, D 13, Co 13, Ch 12 


25 

















AREA 27 


























Map ft 5: Dungeon Level Two 


The first three open chests contain 6,000 
cp, 6,000 sp, and 6,000 sp (respectively). The 
fourth contains 6,000 coins that seem to be 
gold pieces, which are merely gilt coppers (the 
combined value equivalent to silver pieces). 
The two crates contain 150 daggers and 350 
darts, respectively. The iron chest is locked, 
and contains three bolts of silk worth 300 gp 
each. Wrapped in the silk are two potions of 
heading and a wand case, the latter containing 
a wand of wonder (6 charges). 

28. HALL OF DOORS 

This corridor (north of room 25) can only be 
traversed by solving the puzzles posed by 
seven magical doors along its length. Baltron 
solved them all, and thereafter used the vault 
beyond (area 29) as his treasury. 

The walls, floor, and ceiling of the corridor 
are constructed of layers of steel, lead, and 
granite, only the outer (steel) being visible. 
The steel and granite radiate magic as well. 
The combined effect renders all surfaces 
immune to non-magical penetration from 
either direction, and the combination of 
dweomers (actually three alterations) reflects 
all magic (including "at will" spell-like 
effects) back at the creature or item producing 
it. Even other-planar and trans-dimensional 
access (ethereality, teleport) is blocked by the 
combination of protections found here. 

The doors spaced at 10-foot intervals in the 
corridor (excepting only the third) are pro 
tected in like manner, as is the vault beyond 
(area 29). 

Spells not directed at the surfaces, such as 
those of personal use-for example, detection 
spells and others of the divination category- 
can be used with normal effect. Though it 
should not occur in play, the protections can 
be bypassed by use of a magical digging tool, 
such as a mattock of the titans. The work 
would take a considerable amount of time- 
perhaps months. 

The method for opening or passing each 
door is different. All the doors open inward. 
The opposite (north) side of each door bears a 
large handle and heavily sheathed hinges; 
each can easily be opened from that side. 

Read the boxed text describing each door 
aloud, and use illustration #1 (top of page 14) 
for every door. You will also use illustrations #3 
and #4 (page 19) to show certain inscriptions. 

A. First Door 


Ten feet beyond the door from the hall of the 
statues, you see a circular steel door, 7 feet in 
diameter. The steel door has no apparent lock, 
and its surface is smooth and unmarked. No 
hinges for the door can be seen. 



This was wizard locked by a 12th level 
caster. It opens automatically when that effect 
is countered (by the usual means). 

B. Second Door 


Ten feet beyond the featureless door is 
another, similar but more elaborate. 
Thirty-three keyholes are spaced evenly 
around its perimeter, each about six inches 
from the edge. 


All of the locks appear identical, even to x- 
ray vision , though that spell or a find traps 
spell could certainly spot the traps described 
below. The door swings open automatically 
when seven of them are unlocked. Remember 
that a knock spell cannot work, instead 
rebounding to the caster. 

Take a moment and use the spaces below to 
note the different locks (your choice). Avoid 
logical placement and symmetry. Use a clock 
wise numbering system for reference, with 
lock #1 at the top of the door. Reveal this 
numbering system to the players, as this will 
speed play and cannot adversely affect results 
(unless you employ an easily deduced system 
of lock placement). 

The seven locks which secure the door are 
those numbered: 


Thirteen of the other locks are trapped as 
follows. The remaining thirteen have no prac 
tical purpose. 

Poison needle traps in 6 locks, numbers. 
Make a Saving Throw vs. Poison or 
receive ld6 points of damage. 

Glyph ofwarding (blindness) traps on three 
locks, numbers: 


Acid traps in 3 locks. Each sprays in a 5-foot 
radius (Dmg 2-8). If the trapped lock is picked 
or if an attempt to remove the trap fails, the 
victim may (25% chance) be seriously 
blinded, a regenerate needed before a cure 
blindness can succeed. These three locks are 
numbers: 


One trap spews forth a cloud of gas in 10- 
foot cube; each victim must make a successful 
Saving Throw vs. Poison at -4 or sleep for 2-8 
days. The sleep cannot be removed by non- 
magical means, and any magic employed 
must affect the poison (not a disease or other 
affliction). This trap is in lock number: 


C. Third Door 


After the door of many locks lies a third 
door which appears exactly the same as the 
first-totally featureless. 


The third portal is a permanent illusion. It 
can be passed only when the character success 
fully disbelieves its reality, determined by the 
usual Saving Throw vs. Spells after the player 
specifically announces the attempt. Wisdom 
bonuses or penalties apply. If the illusion is 
detected, apply a +4 bonus to the roll. If one 
or more characters pass through, apply a +4 
bonus to subsequent rolls. Bonuses are cumu 
lative. A maximum of 3 attempts (saving 
throws) are allowed per person per day. 

D. Fourth Door 


Ten feet further on, you are faced with yet 
another door. This door is unmarked 
except for a message etched on its surface. 


This door is not locked and opens easily 
when pushed. It is detectable as a trap. Any 
one passing through it is teleported to the 
platform in room 26 (and must thus save or be 
petrified). To avoid this, the proper password 
must be spoken aloud by the person stepping 
through the doorway. 

The message inscribed on the door is in the 
secret language of the cult, unknown to any of 
the PCs. It reads, "Sayez Chi, Passant Avan- 
tre," ("To pass through, say who.") A compre 
hend languages effect (the spell or helm) will 
prove useful, but as the writing is not magical, 
read magic is useless. 

The password is "who," spoken in the lan 
guage of the cult ("Chi"). The word is easily 
found, as it is part of the inscription; but the 
players must realize this and act on the knowl 
edge. If they do not specify otherwise, assume 
that the characters' attempts are made in the 
Common tongue. The natural inclination of 
the caster is to ignore the language of the mes 
sage and concentrate on the magically trans 
lated version, which is ineffective here. 

E. Fifth Door 


Is this procession of doors endless? The 
fifth door has a large dial at its center. The 
numbers 1 through 21 are inscribed 
around the dial at even intervals. A silver 
bar extends from the top of the dial and 
points to the number one. To either side of 
the dial are rows of numbers, two rows to 
the left and one to the right. 


Show the players illustration #3 (top of 
page 19). This is a magical combination lock. 


27 

















and any Open Locks attempt by random die 
toll automatically fails. The players must fig 
ure it out by examining the rows of numbers 
for patterns. In each case, a sequence is given; 
the next (missing) number in the sequence is 
needed to open the lock. 

In the first sequence of numbers (upper 
left), each number is the sum of the previous 
two; the next in the sequence would be 13. In 
the second row (right of the dial), each num 
ber is double the previous one; the next would 
thus be 16. The third series is produced by 
alternately adding 6 and subtracting 2 from 
the previous number; the next in the 
sequence is thus 15. Therefore, when the dial 
is moved to the numbers 13, 16, and 15 (in 
that order), the door opens. 

In campaign play, you may wish to replace 
the sequences given above with others more 
difficult to deduce, changing the combina 
tion thereby. Be sure that each sequence con 
tains enough elements to produce a unique 
solution; you must otherwise permit success 
for any logical process that could explain the 
sequence. 

F. Sixth Door 


The fifth portal opens to reveal yet another 
door 10 feet beyond. This one is nearly fea 
tureless, but has three locks near its right 
edge. And, for the first time, the corridor 
is not unmarked! A hole in the east wall, 
about a cubic foot in size, is filled with a 
tangle of brass keys. Another hole in the 
west wall is empty, a brass plate lines its 
base. 


The door locks serve no purpose, although 
three of the brass keys will fit them. If exactly 
seven of the brass keys are placed in the west 
(empty) niche, the portal will open one seg 
ment later. It will stay open so long as the keys 
remain there. More or fewer keys will not pro 
duce the desired effect, but as the process is 
mechanical, any objects weighing precisely 
the same amount as seven keys will do nicely. 
If a character searches, he discovers the symbol 
for a scale beneath the dust engraved above 
the west wall, and the symbol for one pound. 

G. Seventh Door 


A seventh door blocks the hallway ahead. 
Seven symbols are etched in its surface-a 
moon, hexagon, triangle, square, star, 
pentagon, and sun. 


Show the players illustration #4 (bottom of 
page 19). The door opens when the triangle, 
square, pentagon, and hexagon symbols are 
all glowing. This occurs when they are 


touched by living flesh in that order. The star 
may be touched at any time without affecting 
the results, but touching any other symbol 
will ruin the sequence, as will touching a sym 
bol out of order. Any glowing symbol remains 
lit until it is touched again, or until any sym 
bol produces a shock, or until the sun is 
touched. 

All the symbols can glow except for the 
moon and sun. If a symbol can glow but fails 
to do so when touched, it produces a shock. 

The square will not glow unless the triangle 
is already lit. The pentagon will not glow 
unless both the triangle and square are lit. 
The hexagon will not glow unless the triangle, 
square, and pentagon are all lit. The star 
always glows when touched, but has no other 
effect. The moon always produces a shock, 
but no other effect. If the sun is touched, any 
and all glowing symbols are extinguished, but 
no shock occurs. 

If a symbol produces a shock, the creature 
touching it takes 3 points of damage, regard 
less of immunities. No saving throw applies. 
This damage can only be cured by a heal spell, 
a wish, or normal rest, the latter at the rate of 
1 hp per week. 

29. BALTRON'S TREASURY 


The seventh portal opens to reveal a vault 
lined by the same metal as the corridor and 
doors. Two statues, one of an armored 
fighter and the other of a man in robes 
clutching a long pole, stand in the corners 
nearest the entrance. Along the far wall are 
three small chests, a sealed vase, a sealed 
glass bottle filled with a white mist, a large 
stone chest, and a table supporting an 
open book in a glass case. 


The statue to the left appears to be a petri 
fied fighter, but is actually a stone golem. It 
attacks any living being who enters the room 
unless deactivated by a command word. 
Unfortunately, the command word was 
known only to Baltron, and is long lost. 

Stone golem: AC 5; MV 6"; hp 60; #AT 1; 
Dmg 3-24; SA produces slow every other 
round to 10-foot range; SD + 2 weapon to 
hit, affected only by earth-based spells 

The right-hand statue is a tenth level 
monk, petrified by Baltron for trying to 
destroy the mage's evil experiments. The 
monk may be restored by a stone to flesh spell 
(such as those found in the ring from room 
19). He will be very grateful for rescue, offer 
ing to repay the debt by serving the party as 
best he can until the party mission is accom 
plished. 


Eson the Wise, human 10th level monk (SS 
80%): AC 3; MV 24"; HD ll;hp27;#AT 
lor2;Dmg8-13(ho stick +2) or 3-13/3- 
13 (hands); SA/SD standard monk 
powers; AL LG; wears ring ofspell turning 
S 15. I 8, W 16, D 15, Co 12, Ch 10 

The glass case is made of unbreakable glas- 
steel, and bears both a wizard lock and a fire 
trap (Dmg ld4 + 16 in 5-foot radius). If unse 
cured, the case easily separates into two 
pieces. Within the case is a book of infinite 
spells, open to a page containing the first level 
illusionist light spell. Eight pages of the book 
remain unused. You may select the remaining 
spells; new ones for the campaign, from 
Unearthed Arcana, are recommended. 

The large stone chest contains the jade 
statue of a dragon (worth 500 gp), packed in 
straw, and a small case which holds a ring of 
swimming and a potion oflongevity. 

Two of the small chests contain 1,500 gp 
each; the third holds 800 pp. The vase con 
tains a rare aromatic oil worth 300 gp. The 
glass bottle contains an imprisoned vampire 
mist. 

Vampire mist: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 3; hp 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-8; SA envelopement; SD 
immune to all spells except air-affecting; 
SZ M; I Ave (see new monster) 

As with the other magical portals, the trea 
sury door can be easily opened from the north 
side. It closes slowly but automatically when 
no living creatures remain in the vault. It can 
not be forced to remain open. 

30. HALL OF SPIKES 

The walls of this 30-foot-long hall are stud 
ded with 2-foot spikes from floor to ceiling. 
They all point toward the center of the corri 
dor, leaving a clear pathway 6 feet wide. Each 
spike is coated with a dull black substance. A 
door at the far end of the hallway is cloaked in 
shadow. 

The black substance on the spikes is a con 
tact poison. Anyone touching it must make a 
saving throw, but as the substance is very old 
and dry, a + 5 bonus applies to the roll. Suc 
cess indicates no effect, and even failure 
means that only 1-4 points of damage are 
taken. However, the damage cannot be cured 
until the poison is neutralized. 

This hall appears ominous and forbidding, 
but there is nothing more to it. The cultists 
wanted to scare intruders into thinking that 
this hall was a trap leading to a dead end. 

31. DARK CHAMBER 

Be sure you are familiar with all of the fol 
lowing details before starting this encounter. 
This room bears an old but still powerful 


28 
















enchantment that dims the sight of those 
entering. Torch and lantern flames seem to be 
extinguished upon entry. Light spells seem to 
have no effect, and magical blades seem to 
become non-magical as they enter, their 
bright glows suddenly vanishing. Even a con 
tinual light effect seems reduced to dim torch 
light herein. The enchantment does not truly 
affect anything but the senses, however, light 
less flames are still hot, and can still burn. 

Describe the room's contents only if some 
light source nearly equal to full daylight is 
employed, such as continual light. The room 
is 30 feet square. An eerie mist swirls over the 
floor of polished black stone. The walls are 
lined with rotted tapestries into which some 
unknown craftsman wove a procession of 
cloaked, hooded figures. The two lines of evil 
worshippers appear to advance to an open 
doorway to the west. In mouldy splendor, the 
leader of each line of the procession carries a 
lamp from which burns a black flame. 

The mist emanates from a 10-foot-diameter 
pit in the center of the room, but this gaping 
hole is so covered by mist as to be invisible. 
The pit ends 40 feet below at the surface of a 
subterranean pool. The pool is 30 feet deep at 
this point, and varies from 10 to 80 feet in 
depth over its entire length. Refer to area 34 if 
the pool's occupants have any unexpected visi 
tors. 

Any character roped to or held by another 
can avoid an accidental fall into the pit, but if 
an unsecured character has such an accident, 
the player must make a Dexterity check, as 
follows. The player rolls 3d6. A total equal to 
or greater than the character's Dexterity score 
means that the victim falls in head over heels. 
A lesser total indicates a near miss, the charac 
ter being able to regain his or her balance 
without toppling. 

An invisible stalker now waits in this room. 
It will bide its time, seeking the best opportu 
nities to attack, unless an intruder carries a 
medallion of the Cult of the Black Flame 
(such as the one found in cell B of room 20). 
The monster will attack such a person imme 
diately upon entering, trying to throw that 
person into the pit by using a grappling 
attack. The medallion need not be visibly 
worn or carried; the creature senses its pres 
ence. The stalker is blind, and thus suffers a -4 
penalty on all hit rolls. 

The stalker scores no damage with its grap 
pling attack. Instead, any victim hit must 
make a Dexterity check (as described above) or 
fall into the pit. Furthermore, a penalty 
applies to the player's roll if the character 
attacked is within 10 feet of the pit. Add a + 6 
penalty if the character is within 5 feet of the 
pit, or a + 3 penalty if from 5 to 10 feet away. 
Victims who avoid being thrown into the pit 
are instead thrown to the floor in prone or 


supine position (player's choice), and suffer a 
+ 4 Armor Class penalty until they regain 
their footing. 

A -2 penalty applies to every initiative roll 
for the stalker except for the round in which it 
first attacks. If the monster loses the initiative, 
it cannot grapple, and instead takes a feeble 
swipe at its victim. Although it is a conjured 
creature, and cannot reach anyone within a 
protection from evil 10' radius, the lesser pro 
tection from evil will not stop its grappling, 
merely preventing damage and penalizing the 
monster's chance to hit. The stalker can fly, 
should it choose to do so, and thus cannot 
itself be effectively thrown into the pit. 

Long ago, this poor creature entered this 
room seeking a mage who conjured it, and was 
trapped by the dweomer. After nearly a cen 
tury of imprisonment and darkness, it has 
become weak, blind, and insane. When 
"slain" or otherwise released, its life essence 
returns to its elemental home, where it can be 
cured in time. It will remember the scents of 
those who release it, and reward all of them at 
another place and time, though not with its 
service. 

Invisible stalker: AC 3; MV 12 HD 8; hp 39; 
#AT 1; Dmg grappling or 2-8; AL N; SA 
surprise on 1-5; SD invisibility; MR 30%; 
SZL 

The grappling system described above is the 
simplest of several options given in Unearthed 
Arcana. One of the more complex versions can 
be used, if you wish. 

The doors leading north and south are both 
secret and concealed by the tapestries, and are 
thus hard to find by non-magical means. An 
elf does so only if searching, and then only on 
a roll of 1 on ldlO. A character of any other 
race has a chance half that (1 on ld20) at best. 
If the curtains are moved and the wall itself 
searched, use the dice noted above, but apply 
ing a -2 bonus to the roll. 

32. TRAPPED HALL 


Beyond the open doorway, the floor of the 
hallway slopes upward at a 30 degree 
angle. It is made of the same smooth black 
stone as the floor in room 31. The hallway 
ends in a closed door. 


Only solid stone lies beyond this false door. 
When it is opened, a hidden mechanism on 
the wall over the door fires a spray of old. ran 
cid, but slippery oil down the corridor. 
Another nozzle spits out sparks, which set the 
oil afire. Each victim in the corridor must 
make a Saving Throw vs. Breath Weapon. 
Those failing are soaked; those successful are 


splattered. Anyone soaked with oil takes 2-12 
points of fire damage per round; anyone 
merely splattered takes only 1-6 points per 
round. The fire lasts for 10 rounds before the 
oil burns itself out. Enough oil remains in the 
trap to produce the effect another 19 times. 

Once the trap is sprung, anyone who tries to 
move will slip, fall, and then slide down the 
sloping hall and fall into the pit in room 31. 
Assume a base 25% chance of success if any 
one in room 31 tries to grab a sliding victim, 
but disallow such attempts by anyone who is 
surprised (as per the usual die roll). 

33. SECRET CRYPT 


A rough-hewn passage leading 40 feet 
north from the secret door ends in a small 
cave containing four stone sarcophagi. 


No treasure remains here, but each sarcoph 
agus is occupied. The monsters continue their 
dreamless sleep until their rest is disturbed, 
either by opening their sarcophagi or by the 
sound of the chime in room 36. If the former 
occurs, the monster disturbed tries to slay the 
person doing so. If successful, it returns to its 
rest, replacing the cover on its sarcophagus. If 
the chime sounds, all the monsters awaken, 
emerge, and take the most direct route to 
room 36, attacking any living thing they 
encounter there or along the way. If Turned by 
a cleric, the monsters simply return to their 
sarcophagi for more rest. The usual duration 
of the Turn result is curtailed if the monsters 
are reawakened by either of the means noted. 

Mummies (3): AC 3; MV 6"; HD 6 + 3; hp 33, 
28,22; #AT 1; Dmg 1 -12; AL LE; S A sight 
within 6" produces fear and paralysis, hit 
causes disease; SD hit only by magic weap 
ons, half damage from blows, immune to 
sleep , charm, hold, cold, poison, and 
paralysis 

Son of Kyuss: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 15; 
#AT 1 and 1; Dmg 1-8 and worm burrow 
ing; AL CE; SA emanates fear 30' radius, 
hit may (25%) cause disease; SD regener 
ates 2 hp per round 

34. UNDERGROUND POOL 

The shaft of the pit in room 31 empties into 
an underground pool with very murky water. 
Nothing is visible below the surface unless 
light brighter than a torch or light spell is 
used. The lake covers 5,000 square feet, and 
its depth varies from 10 to 80 feet. It has no 
shores, but fills an irregularly shaped cavern of 
solid but unworked rock. A dozen lizard man 
skeletons reside in the pool, and attack any 
one who drops in. 


29 














Map it 5: Dungeon Level Two 



Lizard man skeletons (12): AC 7; MV 12"; 
HD 2 + 1; hp 15, 14, 13, 12, 12, 10, 10, 9, 
9, 9, 7, 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; SD half dam 
age from edged weapons, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, and cold 

If the bottom of the pool is explored, an 
underwater stairway at its north end can be 
easily found. The stairs emerge from the water 
five feet from a locked iron door, and continue 
up to that portal. 

35. PLACE OF THE GUARDIAN 

The characters may arrive here by teleporta 
tion from room 37, or may enter through the 
unlocked iron door to the south. A large stone 
throne stands by the north edge of this round 
room. On the throne is a chest, and on the 
chest is a creature. The monster is an unfamil 
iar type-a green froglike being with long 
fangs and claws. In the center of the room is a 
familiar-looking stone platform, 9 feet across 
and 6 inches tall. It has a keyhole at its center, 
and a single rune upon its surface. 

This guardian daemon will attack anyone 
entering the room (by any means) unless the 
intruder visibly wears or carries a medallion of 
the cult. If an intruder does have such a 
medallion, the daemon says (using the secret 
language of the cult) "Speak, then." The 
intruder must respond either with the single 


word of calming or the phrase giving the 
words of release, again using the secret cult 
language. If neither response is given within 5 
segments, the daemon attacks. 

The word of calming is "Sosume" (which 
can be found in the old diary in room 19). If 
calmed, the daemon will not attack unless it 
or its treasure chest is disturbed or attacked. 
The words of release are "Karuglamurin, be 
gone!" but they are known only to the high 
priests of the Cult. If that phrase is somehow 
known and spoken, the daemon vanishes 
instantly, leaving the chest on the throne. 

Guardian daemon: AC 1; MV 9"; HD 9; hp 
51; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-12/1-12; ALN; SA 
fire breath (30-foot cone 10 feet across, 
Dmg 5-30); SD +2 weapon to hit, 
immune to charm, hold, sleep, poly 
morph, fear, and all magic-user spells 

The teleporter here works in a manner simi 
lar to that in room 14. However, it requires 3 
rounds to activate, rather than 3 segments. 
The rune on its surface can be translated, by 
read magic, as SHINER. The platform thus 
sends users only to room 37, the SHRINE 
anteroom. 

This room was constructed by undead at the 
bidding of Ohjos, high priest and founder of 
the Cult of the Black Flame. When the cult 


was attacked, he hid many important items 
here and charged the guardian daemon with 
the task of protecting them until a high priest 
of the cult should return to claim them. 

The chest on the throne contains a staff of 
withering, a talisman of ultimate evil with 
three charges, and a stoppered glass vial con 
taining a luminous green liquid. The latter 
item is a potion of sons, but is not drinkable. 
The green liquid is vitrioliquid, a potent acid 
that conjures 10-100 small enchanted mon 
sters, called vitrioli, from the earth. See page 5 
for details on both the creatures and the 
potion. 

Vitrioli (10-100 or 100-1,000): AC 8; MV 6"; 

HD >/ 2 ; #AT 1; Dmg exploding; AL (C)N; 
SA explode in 5-foot radius upon contact, 
producing fire (Dmg 1-8 + hp) and acid 
spray (Dmg 2-8); SD immune to fire and 
acid; SZ S 

36. SHRINE 

Show the players Illustration #2 while you 
describe this room. Beyond the secret door, a 
20-foot-long corridor leads to a pair of bronze- 
bound oak doors. They are not locked or 
trapped, and open easily. The oddly shaped 
room beyond is fashioned completely of black 
stone. The 10-foot-wide south wall is carved 
with the images of a multitude of leering 

























demons. The decoration conceals the outline 
of the secret door leading to area 37, and a 
small peephole. Just before this wall, atop a 
raised area, stands a cloaked and hooded skel 
eton, apparently made of iron. Steps lead up 
to this area, and a stone altar stands at the base 
of the steps. Upon the altar rests a book, a 
small chime, and a large ruby (worth 8,000 
gp) firmly held by an iron frame connected to 
the altar. 

A small figure by the west wall holds a bowl 
filled with murky water. This figure is a 
fanged frog-like being made of iron. The 
carved 10-foot wall behind the thing depicts a 
foul marsh teeming with all manner of deadly 
creatures. Anyone drinking the foul water in 
the bowl must make a successful Saving 
Throw vs. Polymorph or be changed into a 
killer frog. 

To the east, a large block of obsidian stands 
before a smooth wall. The block supports a 
brazier of gray stone. Oddly, the brazier is still 
burning, and the flames are black. 

This, the Shrine of the Black Flame, 
remains as it was when the keep was aban 
doned by the cult. The book, chime, ruby, 
murky water, and black flames all radiate 
magic. The book and the water also radiate 
evil. The chime rings itself whenever anyone 
not wearing a medallion of the cult 
approaches within 15 feet of it. The ringing of 


the chime awakens and summons the undead 
in the crypt (room 33), and also shatters the 
ruby, releasing a Type I demon from within. 
The chime becomes non-magical after it 
chimes. 

The sounding of the chime can be pre 
vented by use of a silence 15 ' radius spell, of 
course. The range of its sound is 180 feet, so if 
magically transported beyond that distance 
from the ruby (or vice versa, but either with 
out approaching the chime), the shattering of 
the gem can be averted. No non-magical 
means will stop the sound, but the enchant 
ment in areas 28 and 29 will block the tone. 
The gem cannot be pried loose from a dis 
tance, but a thiefs Remove Traps skill may 
produce success, again assuming that the 
chime is somehow moved away first. 

The black flames burn cold. In this con 
tainer, they can only be extinguished by 
Demetrios' completed potion. They burn, 
and "set blackfire" to any living tissue they 
contact, except plant life. However, resist cold 
confers immunity for the duration of that 
spell. When burning tissue, the flames can be 
extinguished by a dispel magic or wish (either 
having automatic success). A victim "set on 
blackfire" takes 2-12 points of magical dam 
age per round. The victim takes no visible 
damage, but becomes a lifeless husk upon 
reaching -10 hit points. The flames do not 


affect mineral objects nor undead; in fact, 
undead and other evil creatures are attracted 
by their presence. 

The book is the unholy scripture of the cult. 
Any evil character will enjoy reading its con 
tents. Any character of Good alignment takes 
damage from merely touching the book, the 
amount being a base 2-12 points, plus 2-12 
points if Lawful, or plus 1-6 points if Neutral. 
The damage cannot be avoided nor magically 
healed, the hit points only returning at the 
rate of 1 per week's rest. A character of purely 
Neutral alignment who touches the book feels 
compelled to read it (no saving throw). This 
person must also make a Saving Throw vs. 
Spells, with a -4 penalty, during each round of 
reading the tome; any failure causes his or her 
alignment to instantly change to Chaotic Evil 
and he will attempt to lead friends into dan 
ger and betray them. The victim's original 
alignment can be restored by the usual means 
(such as the application of an atonement 
spell). 

If the demon is loosed, it immediately tele 
ports to a place nearby (room 31 or 37, for 
example) and considers its situation. It has 
been imprisoned long, and seeks revenge on 
those responsible-assumed to be the charac 
ters. It is not overly bright, but neither is it 
forced to attack; it has some measure of free 
will. As it ponders, the demon will use each 
























round constructively by producing darkess 
here and there, using its limited telepathy to 
eavesdrop on the characters, and give itself 
detect invisibility, h will renew the latter spell 
effect as needed, to avoid surprise. For calcu 
lating variable details of its spell-like powers, 
treat the demon as an 8th level caster. 

The demon will try to explore a bit, seeking 
a good place for "hit-and-run" type attacks. If 
it happens into area 32, it may dismantle the 
trap to get the oil, as it is immune to non- 
magical fire. Should the monster happen to 
discover area 31, it will probably decide to 
attack from there as the characters depart. 


Demon, Type I: AC 0; MV 12"/18 " (MC: A); 
HD 8; hp 40; #AT 5; Dmg 1-4/1-4/1-8/ 
1-8/1-6; SA (at will) darkness }' radius, 
detect invisibility, limited telepathy, tele- 
kinese 5,000 gp weight, teleport (no 
error), gate (10% success for a Type 1); SD 
half damage from cold, electricity, magical 
fire, or gas, MR 50%; SZ L; I Low 


37. SECRET PLATFORM 

This anteroom of the shrine contains only a 
9-foot-diameter platform several inches high, 
similar to the ones previously encountered. A 
keyhole is in the center of the platform, and a 
complex rune on its surface reads CLAPE OF 
THE DRAGUNIA. A small peephole in the 
north wall gives a fair view of the Shrine (area 
36), but is partially blocked by the skeletal 
iron statue there. 

The runes unscramble to "Place of the 
Guardian," as this platform sends users only 
to room 35. It otherwise operates exactly as 
does that in room 14. Only the high priests of 
the cult knew of the existence of this chamber. 


Epilogue : Ending The Adventure 


When the adventurers have found the 
secret temple and roasted the ferlow seeds in 
the black flames as Demetrios instructed, they 
must use all that they have learned to get 
safely out of the keep and the swamp. Use the 
random encounter tables for this portion of 
the trip. 

Once the party leaves the marsh, they can 
return swiftly and uneventfully to Demetrios's 
house in Labalna. You may add other 
encounters as desired. Bedraggled and weary, 
the characters eventually make their way to 
Demetrios's shady porch where they collapse 
on the steps and possibly in the old sage's 
rocking chair-which will promptly throw 
them back out, as before. 

If a character gathers strength and knocks 
on the front door, there is no response. A sec 
ond knock, even with more force, will go 
unrewarded; there is no sound of sage feet 
hurrying to answer. Just before the third 
knock, the door is jerked open from inside. 
Demetrios' head peers around the edge of the 
door. He stares at the adventurers with suspi 
cious eyes. 


"What do you mean, disturbing a venera 
ble sage in the middle of his studies, eh? 
Eh? Just because I work at home, everyone 
in the neighborhood seems to think I 
don't really work at all. It's always, 'Deme 
trios, while you're home can you take in a 
package?' or 'Demetrios, will you watch 
the children while we're gone to market, 
thank-you bye,' or even 'Demetrios won't 
mind running the village beautification 
committee; he doesn't have any real work 
to do.' Hrumph!" 

"Say, you're not salesmen, are you, eh? 
Eh? You're always coming around trying to 
sell me encyclopedias. I'm a sage; I write 


encyclopedias! How do you think you'll 
get more to sell if you keep pestering me? 
Be quick about it, and tell me what you 
want." 


After all the trouble they have gone 
through to procure the one missing ingredient 
for Demetrios's potion, the characters may be 
taken aback by his reception. After several 
minutes of explanations, the light of recogni 
tion dawns in the old sage's eyes. 


"Ah, yes. Now I remember you. I see 
you've had a rough time of it. Goodness, 
do you mean that you have the seeds? Oh, 
forgive my lack of manners. Come in, 
come in!" 


The characters troop into the cool dimness 
of the house, and are soon seated in comfort 
able stuffed chairs with refreshing beverages 
at hand. They relate all their adventures with 
Antarcus, Leptor, and the ancient keep of the 
Black Flame. When the tale winds down, 
Demetrios disappears into his workroom. He 
returns after some time, holding a small stop 
pered flask containing a livid blue potion. 


"You see here, my friends, the result of all 
of our labors. With this potion, the Black 
Flame may be extinguished wherever it 
burns. The seeds you have brought me will 
serve to make many more such flasks, but 
this first potion is vitally important. With 
this vial, my formula, and a packet of the 
roasted ferlow seeds, my dear friend Ori- 
maxes can manufacture the potion him 
self. 

"Oh. but however shall I send it to him? 
I am too old and frail to undertake such a 


trip. Think of the hazards along the way! 
There may be fearful monsters guarding 
treasure hoards, or unspeakably rich evil 
magicians. And the Cult of the Black 
Flame, of course, is in its new headquar 
ters, with all of the riches they managed to 
spirit out of the old keep a hundred years 
ago. 

"You wouldn't, by any chance, know 
where I could find a brave group of adven 
turers, to undertake the journey, would 
you?" 


32 


















Official Game Adventure 


Baltron's Beacon 

Philip Meyers 


A strangely delivered advertisement has led 
you to a sage named Demetrios. He needs a 
rare component to complete a desperately 
needed potion* The journey to retrieve it will 
take you through a large, unexplored swamp to 
a ruined keep, the former headquarters of a vile 
cult that once claimed the lives of many inno 
cent youths. 

You cautiously accept the mission. But who 
knows what monsters lurk in the vast marsh? 
Are the old ruins occupied, perhaps by things 
even more dangerous than the previous resi 
dents? Beware, for the eerie green light shining 
upward from the central tower, the beacon that 
guides your way, may attract others as well. To 
succeed, you must penetrate the keep and find 
a unique Black Flame worshipped by the old 
cult. Could those evil ones be lurking about 
still? You will know soon.... 

To solve the mysteries of Baltron's Beacon, 
the characters must excel in handling wilder 
ness, building ruins, dungeons, traps, puzzles, 
and new monsters. This adventure, originally 
designed for tournament use, is now available 
for your own campaign. 

An Adventure for 5-10 Characters, Levels 4-6 


Copyright ItJK Inc. All Ri.jhts Resolved. Piinled in tlie O.3.A. 


I SK Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl53147 


TSR tlK Ltd. 
The Will, Rathmnrr Rood 
Co ill bridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038-237-6 

rSBN 394-54876-0TSR0600 



























