Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 03101 AD& D 1 E Birthright Blood Enemies Abominations Of Cerilia"
See other formats
3101 










Blood Enemies: 


Abominations of cerilia 




-cy. 



























blood enemies 

abominations of cerilia 


Written by: slack 

Development & Editing: Steven E. Schend 
Creative Direction: Roger E. Moore 
Cover: Jeff Easley 

Color interior illustrations: Denis'Bcauvais, Charles Lang, William O'Connor, & Arnie Swekel 
Monochrome interior illustrations: Randy Asplund-Faifhr Adrian Bourne. Alvce Biicker Cosart, 
John Dollar, David Mac Kay, Tony Szczudlo, & Susan Van Camp 
War card art: Douglas Chaffee & Les Dorscheid 
Backdrop painting and art frames: Dee Barnett 
Graphic design & development: Dee Barnett & Renee Ciske 

Cartography: Diesel 

Art coordination; Peggy Cooper & Paul Jaquays 
Typography by: Nancy J. Kerkstra 
Electronic Press Coordination by: Tim Coumbe 
Special Thanks: Rich Baker, Carrie A, Bebris, Anne Brown. Colin McComb, Ed Stark 


Advanced Dungeons & Dkagons, AD&D, and'D ungeon Master arc registered trademarks owned byTSR. 
lnc. 
Birthright, Monstrous Manual and the tsr. logo ate trademarks owned by tsr, '; ic - 

AH TSR characters, character names, and the distinct likenesses thereofire trademarks owned by TSR. 
Inc. 

Random House and its affiliated companies have worldwide distribution rights throughout the book 
trade lor 

English-Language products of 1 SR H Inc, 

Distributed to the toy anti hobby irarfe by regional distri butors. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd, 

This material is protected under the copvright laws of the United States ot America and other countries 
Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the written material or artwork contained herein is prohibited 

without the express written consent of TSR. Inc. 

First Printing, June, 1995. 

(c)1995, TSR, Inc* All Rights Reserved, 

Produced and printed in the United States of America, 


TSR, Inc. 

201 Sheridan Springs Road 
Lake Geneva 
W1 53147-0756 
United States of America 



TSR Ltd 
120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


31G1XXX150I 



















table of contents 


Introduction 


3 


The Major Awnsheghlicn , * * . 

Apocalypse..*. 

Banshegh ,*.**.*. . 

Basilisk... 

Boar ....... .. 

Chimaera - * *. 

Gorgon .. 

Hag of Miiden..,, * 

Harpy. ***...".,*..*.**. 

Hydra. ,,***.**.**. 

Kraken..... . " . 

Lamia... 

Leviathan. . , *•••*¦*•***.,* 

Maalvar the Minotaur. 

Magian 

Manticore, >***,.*..., , 4 

Raven,>*,,. . 

Rhuobhe Manslayer {the Elf) 

Seadrake ........ . 

Serpent . . r . 

Siren*. *.*.*,,, t *, * 

Sphinx ..* . , , . . . . 

Spider. 

Vampire.. 

White Witch. 

Wolf ..***,*,. 


6-113 
... 6 
... 8 
.. 14 
.. 18 
. * 22 
. . . 29 
. . 34 
38 
. . 42 
. . 46 
.. 48 
,.,52 
54 
. . 58 
. , 62 
*, 66 
.. 72 
. . . 76 
. . . 78 
. . 84 
. . 90 
... 96 
. . 100 
. * 106 
. . Ill 


Lesser Awnsheghlien & Other Blooded NPCs .. . 114-123 

Binrnan, Black Princess........ 115 

Borelas, Dame Wither, Diabolyk. ...116 

Fae, Faun. Carafe* Golden Unicorn* Green Man....,117 

Hoarfrost, Kiras* Languis. Meson.....118 

Pegasus, Phoenix, Prtkesk, ..... . 119 

i. Quiekfoot* Rage of the Sea* Ruovar ..120 

Shadows, Stag, Swordhawk..... 12 1 

4. £ynmth, Terror, Tollan ..* . *.....122 


Tfeant, Warlock, Water Maiden, White Goblin *... , . , ....123 

tendix: Blood Abilities 


124-127 













































The 

world of Cerilia is 
unlike any other Advanced 
Dungeons & Dragons(r) 
game world. Player characters of a Birthright'" 
campaign are now the rulers, and their focus is no 
longer on themselves but on those they rule. Many 
would believe this allows the players an easier time 
in fighting monsters and keeping everything safe. 

That is a false assumption, however, for the mon 
sters are no longer simple sword or spell fodder. 

Just as the PCs rule over their domains, some mon 
sters have also become rulers, and these beasts are 
far more powerful than any creatures that roam the 
other AD&D(r) worlds. 

The divine right of kings that courses through the 
player characters also flows through that of the 
monstrous rulers known collectively as the 
awnsheghlien (awn-SHAY-Ien. an elven term that 
translates into "blood of darkness"), though they 
are sometimes simply called abominations. Like the 

introduction 


howto 
use this book 

o 


heroes of Cerilia. the power of the awnsheghlien 
traces back to the battle at Mount Deissmar, and 
their bloodlines are all tied to the evil might that 
was once Azrai the Shadow. Unlike the heroes' 
bloodlines, Azrai s taint gives his evil scions power 
at great cost: To use the power of Azrai is to lose 
personal identity and humanity. Many abomina 
tions were once human, but are now' corrupted in 
body and spirit by their very powers. A glimpse 
inside this tome reveals the awful changes wrought 
on these creatures' original forms. 

Bear in mind that this is not a complete catalog of 
those whose power is tied to Azrai. nor is it an 
exhaustive list of every being considered an 
awnshegh. This is a collection of awnsheghlien who 
are regents and rulers of their ow'n domains in Cer 
ilia. and it provides notes on a few others who draw 
power from Azrai, For centuries, these beings have 
wielded powers and hungered for more; it is easier 
to guard power in secret and remain hidden until 
they can strike and gather more from unsuspecting 
heroes of the blood. Fool and king alike must 
beware the shadows. , . . 


utside of this introduction and the appen 
dices needed for readers and players, the 
Blood Enemies book exists as a "real" man 
uscript under the title of Daznigs Libram on Those 
Enemies of the Blood-, Daznig, a sage and explorer, 
maintains the original bound sheaf of parchments 
himself, and has provided copies of it to the 
libraries of the prince of Avanil. The Mhor. and the 
Royal College of Sorcery in the Imperial City. 

Below, "Daznig's Introduction" explains itself and 
the book's inner construction as it appears to natives 
of Cerilia. In short, each of the main entries in this 
book is laid out in the following pattern: an autobiog 
raphy or interview with the awnshegh (if it has 
enough intelligence to be interviewed at all); 
Cerilian sages' conceptions (some incorrect) of 
the creature based on ancient tomes, personal 
accounts, and the many rumors and legends sur 
rounding the creature; and finally the statistical 
information needed for the AD&D 
game, including information on realms should the 
awnshegh be a ruler or major power in part of Cerilia. 

With three or more forms of data given for the 
awnsheghlien. it can be difficult to determine which 
information is accurate and which is inaccurate. 
For the DM's sake, only the AD&D game statistics 
for the awnshegh and the realm information are 
absolutely accurate. The remainder of the informa 
tion provides color for use in a game. The inter 
views give DMs a roleplaying aid. showing how the 
creature speaks and thinks. Daznig's notes give 
more information and legendary details, many 
of which can be false rumors to throw off the y \ 
players. DMs are encouraged to use the infor 
mation as they see fit, taking what they like 
and ignoring the rest. In this way. a partic 
ular awnshegh in one DM's campaign 
differs slightly from that in another. 

Note: Throughout this book, the 
Dungeon Master'-"' Guide is 
abbreviated as DMG and the 
Players' Handbook is abbre 
viated as PHB. 







awnshegh 

statistics 

Each entry provides the same facts as those in the 
Monstrous Manual " tome, though the format of 
statistics and descriptive text has changed a bit. 
Brief explanations follow. 

? Intelligence shows the relative intelligence 
level of an awn she gh. Ratings approximate these 
Intelligence ability scores: 


0 

Nonintelligent or not ratable 

1 

Animal intelligence 

2-4 

Semi-intelligent 

5-7 

Low intelligence 

8-10 

Average (human) intelligence 

11-12 

Very intelligent 

13-14 

Highly intelligent 

15 16 

Exceptionally intelligent 

17-1.8 

Genius 

19-20 

Supragenius 

21-25 

Godlike intelligence 


4- Activity Cycle is the time of day when the 
awnshegh is most active. 


4 SIZE reflects an 

awnshegh's height, length, or 
diameter. Size is abbreviated as 
follows: 

Size Explanation 

T Tiny (2 r or less) 

S Smaller than human (2"+ to 4") 

M Man-sized (4'+ to 7*) 

L Large (7 + to 12') 

H Huge (12 + to 25') 

G Gargantuan (25'+) 

4 Armor Class measures an awnshegh^ natural 
defense against damage before anv magic, armor, 
or other protective bonuses are added. Such 
bonuses are noted in parentheses. 

4 Hrr Points marks the total points of damage an 
awnshegh can withstand before death. This num 
ber is derived from Hit Dice (which are eight 
sided), which arc approximated under Saves As. 

4 Saves As tells the DM which table the creature 
uses to make a saving throw, and gives the rela 
tive power of an awnshegh using a comparable 
character class and level. This reference also esti 
mates its Hit Dice. The following abbreviations 
are used for character classes: F (Fighter), 
P (Priest), T (Thief), and W (Wizard). 


4 Diet categorizes the abomination s food of choice. 
Carnivores eat meat, herbivores consume plants, and 
amn hwres eat both plants and meat, to name some 
common diets. Less common are the atinoVdres, 
who gain sustenance from air, synaptovores, who eat 
thoughts, and others detailed in this book. 



ALIGNMENT defines the general behavior of 
an awnshegh. Its servants, followers, or off 
spring may be of the same alignment, 
though this is by no means the rule. 

4 MOVEMENT is an awnsheghs speed 
rating. Unusual movement types arc 
noted as follows: Cl (climbing). Ft 
(flying), Ml (melding through solid 
objects), Sw (swimming), Te 
(telepo rtat ion) t and Wb 
(moving across webs), 

' w& 


4 THACO (abbreviated from To-Hit-Armor* 
ClassAT) is the attack roll the awnshegh needs to 
hit an AC of zero. THACO does not include any 
special bonuses noted in the descriptions of indi 
vidual attack forms. 

4 No, OF Attacks shows the bask attacks the 
awnshegh can make in a single melee round, 
excluding special attacks. This number can be 
modified by hits that sever limbs, spells such as 
haste and slow, and so forth. Multiple attacks 
indicate several combative limbs, raking paws, 
multiple heads, etc. 

4 Damac.E/AitACK shows the amount of damage a 
given attack causes, expressed as a number and 
type of dice, if the awnshegh uses weapons, the 
damage done by the weapon will be annotated by 
the parenthetical note "by weapon type" and 
explained in detail within the text* Strength 
bonuses to damage are listed following the dam 
age range. 




? Special Attacks lists unique attacks, such as 
breath weapons, spell use. poison, etc. These are 
detailed further in the text. 

? Special Defenses are unusual resistances to 
harm and are further detailed in the text. 

? Magic Resistance is the percentage change 
that any magic cast at an awnshegh will fail, even 
if creatures nearby are affected. If the magic pen 
etrates the resistance, the creature is still entitled 
to any saving throw allowed. Certain awnshegh- 
lien are resistant to specific spells, but "magic 
resistance" as described here is effective against 
all spells and magical abilities. 

Morale is the general rating for the abomina 
tion's resolve in combat and its willingness to 
continue a battle, even under dire circumstances. 
Morale ratings correspond with the following: 

Morale Explanation 

2-4 Unreliable 

5-7 Unsteady 

8-10 Average 

11-12 Steady 

13-14 Elite 

15-16 Champion 

17-18 Fanatic 

19-20 Fearless 

? Blood lists the being's bloodline and its rank 
and strength. 

? Blood Abilities are the powers granted by this 
bloodline, and they are cataloged here. The use 
of these powers is explained in the appendix and 
in the Rulebook of the Birthright Campaign Set. 

? XP Value is the amount of experience points PCs 
can earn for defeating or slaying the awnshegh. 
DMs might want to provide smaller amounts of 
experience for simply surviving an encounter with 
one of the awnsheghlien. 


daznio's 

introduction 


"Good morrow, kind patron, and welcome to my 
humble attempt at gathering information on those ter 
rors stalking our land who are called the Awnsheghlien. 
I intend to provide you with knowledge in the hopes 
that a bold knight (or, mayhap, our beloved ruler him 
self) might learn how to send an abomination onto its 
rightful death, just as Haelyn and his fellows smote 
down the Shadow at Deissmar. For. while I shall give 
all rulers their due respect, the awnsheghlien fill my 
heart not with loyalty but with fear and loathing. It is 
hoped that my tome will grant you the knowledge you 
need to find and destroy them. 

"Interviews or autobiographies of those awnshegh 
lien who could communicate with us were done under 


great risk to my fellow sages and interviewers. Some 
awnsheghlien herein were unknown (save by reputa 
tion or by name alone) before we undertook this task. 
To make this tome invaluable to its readers. My associ 
ates and I felt that actual interviews would be ideal 
ways to delve into these beings' evil minds. Of course, 
knowing the source of their powers, one should 
assume that many awnsheghlien lied to us, for it is not 
in their nature (nor was it ever in Azrai's) to abandon 
deceit. Because of this, accept not their words but their 
characters, and hear what they do not say. for nothing 
can truly hide its mind when its mouth is open. 

"The sage's notes, written by me, are culled from 
innumerable rumors and tales and from an assembly 
of manuscripts, tablets, scrolls, and diaries of those 
who have come into contact with an awnshegh. 
Moreso than the interviews, this legendary data 
could be in error, since much of it is more allegory 
and fable than fact, and folk seem unable to isolate 
facts from the telling of a good tale. While I 
expurgated most of such hyperbole, there 
are some instances (due to the power 
and excesses of the creatures) 
where it was impossible to 
discern between fact 
and exaggeration." 






apocalypse 

N o interview or statement was possible with 
the creature (or whatever it is) known as 
the Apocalypse. Much of its entire exis 
tence is patterned on conjecture, rumor, and leg 
ends that this sage does not find particularly 
reliable. 

Should it even exist, the so-called Apocalypse is 
an uncertain force of nature, and it is impossible to 
guess its motivations and its source of power. How 
ever, the Apocalypse has been mentioned in a num 
ber of different sources, which lead to its inclusion 
within our text as an 
abominable danger 
to Gerilia, 

OcoibtV Phenomena 
is a unique and large 
tome of unknown 
authorship found only 
in the library of Ralath, 
an accomplished and 
revered sage in Talinie whose major fields of study 
are Rjurik and Anuirean folklore. In an entry dating 
300 years after Deisma&r, the tome states the fol 
lowing: "Strange weather was reported in Lipshaal 
shortly alter dawn bv a local farmer. He reported 


that an unusually warm wind blew in from the 
east, carrying with it a pekuliar odoure.' Soon 
thereafter, his neighbor's cattle dropped in mid 
stride. The farmer's own dogs heaved and fell to 
whimpering instantly. Other strange effects were 
reported throughout that day by many folk in the 
village, all beginning with that strange wind. 

'Surely the apocalypse itself is upon 
us,' cried the farmer, 'for the whole 
world crumbles all around us.(tm) 
Sages studied accounts of the dis 
aster as well as 
other local 
happenings 
and reached a 
logical conclu 
sion, Earlier 

that week, a rat-infested town to the west of Lipshaa! 
was burned to the ground to prevent a plague from 
spreading. The smoke from this inferno drifted with 
the local weather patterns, and the plague and other 
evil humors thus infested the next town. 


the major 
awnsheohlien 



6 



































Among Ralath's library are 
collections and transcripts of provincial 
poetry and folk songs, and an assortment of per 
sonal diaries sold to him for his research. One 
small, nondescript journal, written apparently by a 
young girl, contains one page of interest that per 
tains to the Apocalypse: "I saw a face in the gray 
clouds today. It looked like a huge, mustached 
man s face with pointed teeth like a starving beast. 
For a second. I thought it looked at me, but it 
didn't come at me, so it must not have. . . While 
Ralath himself wishes to believe this testimony, 
much of the girl's diary is filled with trite ramblings 
of lunacy and hallucinatory tales, discrediting her 
statements. 

Another apocryphal text source within Ralath's 
library is the Armais of the Divinely Disfigured, a poorly 
constructed and badly researched text which nonethe 
less served as an authoritative text on awnsheghlien 
for the last two centuries: it exists in at least three 
languages and 
there are nearly 20 
copies still in exis 
tence in Cerilia. In 
reference to the 
Apocalypse, a 
speak with dead 
spell was used on a 
fallen priestess of 
Anduiras after she 
succumbed to a 
mysterious rotting 
disease, and her testimony adds more commentaiy on 
the nature of the Apocalypse: "A heinous wind 
plagues the land-the last dying breath of Azrai, the 
withering mist of the Shadow-land, the waning scream 
of the dead gods . Azxai cannot enter this world as long 
as he is in want of his breath. Take heed: the putrid 
mist prowls the land in search of its master, hoping to 
once again be united with him. Do not allow the 
breath to enter Azrai's lungs, for the land is doomed if 
he should breathe once again. .. 

The tome states that its researchers used a 
detect lie in conjunction with the speak with dead 
spell, but the results were inconclusive. It is 
unclear if the spirit of the dead priestess was 
telling the truth or if she was lying. Thesselon, an 
Anuirean sage learned of things awnshegh, con 
jectures that the spirit contacted was not even the 
priestess: instead, he surmises that some minion 
of evil was sent from the Shadow World to cause 
panic and disorder-something the god needs to 
feed upon in order to return. 


Intelligence: Unknown 

Activity Cycle: Any 

Diet: Atmovore and Hemovore (Blood) 

Alignment: Neutral evil 
Movement: FJ 6 (E) 

Size: 5,000 cubic yards 

Armor Class: Inapplicable 

Hit Points: Inapplicable 

Saves As: Unknown 

THACO: Unknown 

No. OF Attacks: Unknown 

Damage/Aitack: Unknown 

Special Attacks: Death touch (see below) 

Special Defenses: None 
Magic Resistance: Unknown 
Morale: Unknown 
Blood: Theorized--Great (Azrai) 34 
Blood Abilities: Theorized-Death Touch 
(Minor), Detect Life (Great), Invulnerability 
(Great), Major Resistance-Magic, Nonmagical 
Weapons. Poison (Great), 

XP Value: Unknown 

The Apocalypse can move in any direction, despite 
wind and air currents. It usually travels with the 
wind to disguise itself, though even with a tail wind 
it never exceeds a movement rate of 6. If the Apoc 
alypse discovers a large group of living beings (a vil 
lage or settlement), it usually changes direction and 
heads directly" for the largest concentration of 
people. 

If this gray translucent cloud contacts an NPC or 
PC, he must save vs. death magic or contract a dis- 1 
ease that causes ld4 points of damage each day 
(starting immediately). This cannot be cured with 
out casting both remove curse and dispel magic spells 
on the afflicted individual. Both spells must be 
administered within an hour of each other to be 
effective. Cure wound and heal spells negate the 
damage but do not terminate the condition, result 
ing in continued damage the next day. 

The Apocalypse has no apparent pattern to its 
travels and no reason for its existence. It was 
first seen in Stjordvik where a small farming 
community, Lipshaal, was devastated, 
leaving it a ghost town. Since then, it 
was believed spotted in the Siel- 
wode, Baruk-Azhik, and most 
recently in Rohrmarch. 




JUA I \ fc 





bunshevh 

f irst, let me eradicate a popular and major mis 
conception: I am not the Banshegh* 1 do not 
emerge trom my den at night to scream at 
people, enter their dreams, and kill them in their 
sleep, I don't know how the rumor got started, but It 
is all baseless and untrue, I have, in fact, put a bounty 
of two thousand gold pieces out on the Banshegh, 
hoping that someone will destroy the creature and 
thus disprove the rumor. Despite the emptiness of 
this gossip, I am known across Ceriiia as the Ban 
shegh, and nearly everyone save my loyal subjects 
has forgotten mv real name: Justina Heuiough. 

*'I am a just and kind ruler While 1 impose a tax 
on each of my subjects, it is a fair tax that all pay- 
paupers and nobles alike, I have little need of this 
money personally, but it is used well to protect my 
people from roving bandits and the threat of enemy 
incursion. When times are good, I use the additional 
funds to sponsor galas for my people s pleasure or 
have the money pul to use in constructing granaries 
or other structures useful for all my people, I sleep 
well at night, knowing that my people have lived 
well under my rule, i suspect the rumors of my 
being the awnshegh known as the Banshegh were 
started by a grasping noble or another of the ruling 
class, jealous of the prosperity and benevolence of 
my rule, 

"I use the essence Ive inherited to ensure my 
people that my courts are just and right. All who 
come before the courts for any wrongdoing shall 
always, as long as l sit upon my throne, have a fair 
trial. To our knowledge, not one person innocent of 
a crime has been convicted. The guilty, though, bear 
the full responsibilities of their actions and the pun 
ishment of my laws. 

"Thanks to those vicious allegations that I am the 
Banshegh, or that we simply inhabit the same form, 
my kind but simple people have need of a dusk-to- 
dawn curfew, and I am sealed in my chambers each 
night by my chamberlain to prevent my alleged noc 
turnal reign of terror. It is unsettling to see my 
people believe in such superstitions and falsehoods, 
but a ruler does what sufferance she must as a mild 
price for her people's happiness. I just wish that 
more sensible folk would rise to quench these wild 
theories about me." 


Justina Heuiough is a dangerous opponent, but she 
doesn't realize her own power There are 


























two versions of the Banshegh (well-documented out 
side of her domain), and she is an awnshegh despite 
any personal protests. 

The first Banshegh is Justina Heutough-the 
elven leader of a very small independent nation of 
humans nestled among the Mountains of the Silent 
Watch. She is a just leader who protects her people 
like a mother lioness does her cubs. She commonly 
visits the few hamlets in her domain so the people 
can talk to her and express their complaints and 
commendations. She truly listens to their ideas for a 
better country, though she is always careful before 
acting on any of them. 

Justina is a handsome elven woman. She has 
never been an enchantress by any means, though 
her sweet disposition and kind wisdom have many 
seeing her through compassionate eyes. She is wid 
owed, her human husband having died nearly 30 
vears ago, and she has three children who are grown 
and living with their spouses deep in her domain or 
in Rheulgard, Her half-elven children live under 
aliases, not letting anyone know who they truly are 
(though they have ways of proving their legitimacy 
and status as Justina's heirs, should the need arise), 

The second Banshegh arises whenever Justina falls 
asleep, Almost like an astral travel spell, the Banshegh 
separates from Justina's corporeal body like a spirit 
and haunts the Mountains of the Silent Watch and 
nearby Treucht and Rheulgard. There is a connection 
between the two, which has been ascertained from 
the use of locate person spells on the sleeping Justina: 
they indicate that she is in two locations at once. Not 
even this evidence can sway Justina Heulough's mind 
to believe this, as she harshly dismisses anyone who 
even suggests that there is a connection between her 
and the hated name ol the Banshegh. 

Regardless of Justina's inclination to ignore the 
evidence, the Banshegh closely resembles her face 
and form, though it is made entirely of dark mists 
and some low. blue-glowing energy. The Banshegh is 
rarely seen directly, but is visible out of the corners 
of one's eyes; looking at her most often results in 
looking through her. 

Sages who study the awnsheghlien have two the 
ories on Justina and the Banshegh. Some believe 
that Justina and the Banshegh are one 
and the same, and her dual 
form is simply a 



9 t f 






i 


9 























unique way of manifesting her Azrab 
bom abilities. A second theory states that 
the Banshegh is some previously unknown 
form of divine essence, and it entered justina 
some time after the destruction at Mount Dehmaar; 
those who subscribe 

to this theory cannot offer any evidence that this 
essence inhabited other beings in the past 1,500 
years. The Banshegh's activity in this area (or in 
Cerilia at all, by any accounts) did not begin until 
after the death of Justina's husband, and it has 
apparently lived within Justina for nearly 30 years. 

Both theories are torn over how to dispose of the 
Banshegh, for all agree that the Banshegh is as 
malevolent and dangerous as Justina is kind and 
just By killing justina. the Banshegh will definitely 
be destroyed. However, sages can t decide if killing 
the Banshegh would kill Justina, If the Banshegh is 
actually a manifestation of the sleeping Justina's 
spirit, both would die if the Banshegh is slain. If the 
Banshegh is simply some malevolent invader linked 
to Justina, severing that link or destroying the Ban 
shegh could either free Justina of her curse or set 
the Banshegh free to roam the land night and day. 
no longer held in check by Justina. 

A set of scrolls rests in the Royal College of Sor 
cery s library at the Imperial City of Anuire, and it 
is collectively known as The Scrolls of the Tainted , 
These 2G-year*old scrolls hold a different story on 
Justina. The scrolls' author used ^unspeakable 
arcane methods to locate the "true" relationship 
between Justina and the Banshegh. He allegedly 
found that she was cursed by Carat, a cousin of the 
provincial leader of Rheulgard and a priest of Azxai, 
Despite AzraTs destruction at Deismaar. Carat 
drew power from some source for spells, though 
this is not elaborated upon in the texts. 

Carat evidently summoned a Shadow World wraith 
of sorts to haunt Justina, It is inactive during the day 
and can only come out at night, giving the impres 
sion that the Banshegh is only around when 
Justina sleeps. No spells have vet been 
used to check for such a curse. 






Justina 

16 

Day . 

Omnivore 
Chaotic good 
12 

M (6 r tall) 

I 

56 

F9 

12 

1 

By weapon 
None 
None 
Nil 

II 

Minor (Azrai) 33 
2,000 


-? 

Intelligence 
Activity Cycle 
Diet 

Alignment 

Movement 

Size 

Asm ok Class 
Hit Points 
Saves As 
THAC0 
No. o\- Attacks 
Damage/Aitack 
Specias Attacks 
Special Defenses 
Magic Resistance 
Morale 
Blood 
XF Value 
? 


Banshegh 

16 
Night 
Svnaptovore 
Chaotic evil 

15 

M (6 tall) 
-1 
79 
Fll 
10 
1 

IdS {touch) 
Dreams, wail 
Spell Immun. 
50% 
13 

Minor (Azrai) 33 
11,000 


Justina's Blood Abilities: Jnvulnerahaity (Great), 
Persuasion (Major), Unreadable Thoughts (Minor) 
Banshegh's Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Major), 
Fear (Major). Invulnerability (Great), Major 
Resistance-Magic, Nonmagical Weapons 
(Major), Wither Touch (Minor) 



The Banshegh and Justina do not share the same 
blood abilities and this, sages believe, tends to prove 
that the two are separate entities that share the same 
body during waking hours. In any event, the Ban 
shegh is a very dangerous opponent in both forms. 

In addition to her blood abilities, the Banshegh's 
nighttime incarnation has all the known powers of 
common banshees, including a wad that kills even 
the heartiest hero and an immunity to charm , steep, 
and hold spells. 

The Banshegh's 
unique ability 
allows her to 
enter the minds 
of sleeping vic 
tims and frighten 
them to death. 

The few who 
encountered 
her and 


10 








lived to tell of it 
aged 10 years in their sleep: 

Meson the Wblfman is an awnshegh whose 
dream-battle with her ended in a draw' and forged a 
life-long enmity' between the two. The dream-tales 
are wild and unbelievable, as the Banshegh can 
seemingly manipulate dream events and interact 
with the sleeper's mind, causing damage incurred to 
a dream-self to happen in the real w r orld (25% of 
damage done in a dream is incurred by the charac 
ter's real body). Of the few' survivors ol a dream- 
battle with the Banshegh, most report that she most 
often prefers to manipulate the landscape and set 
ting of a dream rather than directly fight with a per 
son's dream-self, putting "earthquakes" and deep 
crevasses underfoot to frighten and injure the 
dreamer. 


Domain Name: 

The Bansheghs 
Domain 
Location: 
Mountains of the 
Silent Watch 
Alignment: 
Neutral good 
Status: 

Not available for 
PC use 

Provinces/Holdings: This domain consists of 
Pashact, a Level 2 province. 

Law: Justina controls all law holdings in her 
domain. 

Temples: There are currently no controlled 
temple holdings within this domain. 

Guilds: justina holds all the guild power in this 
domain as well as two guild (1) holdings in Miiden 
and Treucht. 

Sources: The source holdings within the domain 
are held by the vizier Gastus. 

Regency Generated/Accumulated: 8/20 RP 
Gold Generated/Accumulated: 4/8 GB 

Army: When a person reaches the age of 13. he or 
she is trained in fighting by members of the militia. 
For a year, members are taught to use the long 
sword, dagger, and either a crossbow or longbow' 
(with sheaf arrows or bolts). Once this training is 
complete, each person owns a sword, a dagger, and 
a missile weapon. 



The persons showing the best aptitude for com 
bat or volunteering for further training are inden 
tured as soldiers in the capital of Pashacht and are 
called The Patrol. These highly trained veterans are 
the elite fighting force for the Banshegh as well as 
the trainers of the militia. They are taught advanced 
weapon techniques for hand-to-hand and ranged 
weapons. They are also trained in survival methods 
needed to live indefinitely in the cold, the moun 
tains. and the steppes. Due to their intense famil 
iarity with the landscape of their country, they 
surprise their opponents most of the time (-1 on 
opponents' surprise rolls) and they can only be sur 
prised 10% of the time (1 in dlO). 

Occasionally (10% of the time), trainers find a 
person with an aversion to fighting. Whether it's a 
religious or a philosophic view, these individuals are 
not forced into learning the techniques oi war. 
Instead, those w'ith the aptitude are trained in 
herbalism and the treatment of wounds. By training 
nearly every' individual in her realm for either com 
bat or healing, the Banshegh has created a loyal 
force that belies the size of her nation. 

If there is a call-to-arms to repel an invasion, her 
alds are sent to each hamlet and village proclaiming 
the danger. All militia members grab their weapons 
and respond to the attack. 

Militia (400): Int 11-12; AL N; AC 7; HD 1-1; hp 
4; THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA ranged weap 
ons; Save FI; SZ M (6' tall); MV 12; ML 12; XP 
15/ea. 

Healers (50): Int 11-12; AL N: AC 7; HD 1; hp 
5; THACO 20; #AT 0; Dmg nil; SD animal lore, 
healing, herbalism, weather sense; Save FI; SZ M 
(6' tall); MV 12; ML 11; XP 15/ea. 

The Patrol (50): Int 17-18; AL LN; AC 4: HD 2: 
hp 16: THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA ranged 
weapon, -1 on foes' surprise rolls, proficient in most 
hand-to-hand weapons, animal lore, healing, 
herbalism, weather sense, survival in cold, moun 
tains, steppes; SD surprised on 1 in d 10; Save F2; 
SZ M (6 r tall); MV 12; ML 17: XP 200/ea. 

Constabulary (25): Int 13-14; AL LG; AC 7; 

FID 2; hp 10; THACO 19; #AT 1: Dmg ld6: 

Save F2; SZ M (6' tall); MV 12; ML 12; 

XP 35/ea. ' '> 





Regent; Justina Heulough/Ebe Banshegh 


LIEUTENANTS; Two men* Derf Greenfields and Tre- 
bor Terazza!, aid Justina in protecting her Lands, 
Deri leads the militia as second-in-command of the 
Patrol, and he is responsible for training the citizens 
in warfare. Trebor. Master of the Patrol and the best 
friend of Justina's deceased husband, keeps the 
Patrol at battle-readiness at all times and maintains 
the weaponry with his battery of blacksmiths. Both 
Trebor and Derf are lOth-levd warriors who will 
protect Justina with their lives, 

Justina's vizier and court advisor is the elderly 
half-elvea wizard Gastus Rcigaart (W13), He is 
Justinas closest friend and confidant, and has spent 
years magically keeping those people close to 
Justina and the entire populace of Pashacht from 
falling into the deadly clutches of the Banshegh. 
This drives the Banshegh out into the rural areas* 
but Gastus* prime consideration is Justina and her 
welfare, not protecting the peasants* 

Important NPCs: Briei Threefmgers is the 
domain's master smith, and he sets the standard by 
which all blacksmiths are rated in the surrounding 
three domains a$ well as his own. He is able to per 
form his tasks in half the speed normally required 
by lesser smiLhs* and he and his assistants report 
directly to Trebor when working on weaponry and 
other works tor Justina or the Patrol* 


Domain Description; 

'Hie Banshegh controls a small semi 
independent nation in a basin within the western 
Mountains of the Silent Watch. It consists of about 
10 small villages and hamlets of farmers, woods 
men, herders, and a small population of miners. 
Mountainous crags frame the country to the north, 
south, and east, while soft, rolling hills border its 
western side. With mountains on three sides* the 
easiest access to the Banshegh's domain is from the 
west. Of course, the largest defensive fortifications 
for the domain are to the west, Since the nation is 
so small, it would normally be difficult to create a 
standard army to protect her land. However, the 
militia and army system established in this domain 
is highly effective and doesn't deplete the realm's 
resources by constantly maintaining a huge standing 
army. 

The domain is surprisingly fertile for planting, 
with abundant sources of water and rich minerals 
washing down from the surrounding mountains 
each spring* However, the spring Lhaw also brings 
flooding into many areas of the country except the 
western hills. Due to the topography, the water 
drains off more slowly than normal, and there are a 
few weeks in the early spring where roads are next 
to impassable due to mud or standing water, A 
number of villages in the center of the domain 





Pashaci 

Mountain - 

rr Sotirhbri 

, " .A i* V"? 


'Silent Watc 


Barrier 

Mount Anglem. 


12 








- 





have their buildings' foundations built up a toot or 
more from the ground to prevent their homes from 
flooding in the spring. 

Since nearly everyone in the nation is armed, the 
amount of crime-violent or otherwise-is lower 
here than in many other realms- Few individuals 
wish to rob a house when they know the homeowner 
is often as proficient in using weapons as they are. 
As a result, the constabulary is very small in relation 
to the number of people in the nation. Each hamlet 
has one constable and each village has five consta 
bles; the constables serve as peacekeepers and 
judges alike, and many are the higher ranked mem 
bers of the militia. 

Domain Capital: Pashacht 
Domain Villages; South bridge, Tabre Mountain 
Special Locations: Mount Anglem. Mountains of 
the Silent Watch. Tabre Mountain 
Trade GOODS: The sole trade route into and out 
of the domain runs from Pashact to Miiden at 
the city of Barrier. The people export surplus 
wool and grains, raw gems from Tabre Moun 
tain, and carved woodcrafts from craftsmen in 
the southern forest. They import such items as 
clothing, literature, and raw materials and ore 
for weaponmaking. 


Allies: The Banshegh 
has peaceful ties with the 
nation of Miiden. The country 
covertly provides hers with raw ore for 
weapons to use against Rheulgard. This fight 
and this trade have continued for years. In return, 
Justina provides Miiden with surplus weaponry and 
jewelry. 

Enemies: The fight against Rheulgard began nearly 
40 years ago, when Justina and her husband moved 
to rule this isolated province separate from Rheul 
gard, The war has fallen to minor skirmishes from 
the south, as the ruler of Rheulgard is afraid of the 
Banshegh s power. 

Other Notes on the Banshegh's Domain 

Tabre Mountain: This medium-sized mountain is 
a source for high-quality emeralds. 

The Banshegh's Castle: Justina's fortress ties 
nestled amid the slope of the mountains, overlook 
ing the city of Pashact, where her former palace lies 
at the city's center; due to the danger of ihe Ban 
shegh, her court has been moved here for protection 
(of Justina and her people). Thus. Pashact and the 
center of the domain is guarded by the castle (4). 


f 


























•'Vt i i-m- Ifi. 




gUg 




11 "" 




a< 

Hi 


i i id 


fefjfci;- r yMv j) 



1 L- ^ i ¦ J W f " 




basilisk 


I t is has been nearly a century since any 
reports of intelligence were attributed to the 
awnshegh called the Basilisk. Its depravities 
and corruption have apparently stripped it of its 
original intellectual faculties. This is not to say that 
the Basilisk is not cunning, malevolent, or danger 
ous r it simply no longer has the capacity for com 
munication with intelligent beings nor its original 
- { capability of casting spells, 

The normally poor reference known as the 
Annuls of the Divinely Disfigured provides a 
dear view of the Basilisk as it existed 
between one and two centuries ago. 
Four complete copies of this 
reference exist in the 
Khinasi lands along 
with a number 

, of other 


*k 



incomplete copies. All of them have an interview 
with the Basilisk, which is reconstructed here. 
Notations have been added by this author to cor 
rect or corroborate any apparent elaborations on 
factual history by previous scribes or the Basilisk 
itself. The Basilisk may lack intellect now, but the 
awnsheghTs savage cunning existed even at this 
stage. 

"I Hate. I am Hate incarnate. Everything that is 
Hate is me and everything that is me is Hate. 
There's no way to separate me and Hate. Once the 
son of the Prince of Malik el-Badn 1 %vas forced into 
this form from a curse -The Curse from Azrai, the 
creation that built Hate, and I Hate for that- My 
name, long forgotten in time, is now Hate. 

"My father stood for everything loyal and beauti 
ful, His gardens were always neatly trimmed; His 
wife, daughters, and son were beautiful to the eye: 
and his house was the finest in the land-bright and 
cheerful, even at night. His knowledge was infinite, 
and his use of that knowledge was wise. He knew 
what to say and when to say it. There was nothing 
he could not do. How could a child live up to such 
perfection every moment of his life? 

"Mv father was so proud of his son. So proud was 
he. that he forced me into a mold my body and my 
mind were neither ready nor inclined to fit, He 
wanted a clone of his younger self, some 
one to fit into his shoes 



14 






















when 
he died. He 
wanted me to be him: proud, 
beautiful, loved, and a great leader, All I 
wanted was to be left alone to mv studies, so I 
rebelled. 

"Rebelled, 1 did, and I brought discord into the 
perfect gardens. I placed worry onto the noble fea 
tures of my father and family. My wicked tongue 
spread malice and guile upon many targets, to jus 
tify my quest for isolation. My eyes could deter the 
kindness of others with a brutal look. And 1 
rejoiced, for it left me to my own council and my 
own wants and desires. 

"One day. it became apparent that I had fallen 
from my father's favor and the favor of the gods 
themselves. My voice became so caustic, I poisoned 
myself and everything 1 touched. Everything of 
beauty I gazed upon wilted and died. That was the 
moment I turned fully to Hate, for I had nowhere 
else to dwell. The Hate in me renounced everything 
my father stood for, and I now 1 punish all that is not 
Hate and destroy all that is beautiful." 

What motivates the loathsome creature called the 
Basilisk? Long ago. the answer was simpler, as is told 
by the monster's own tongue: It is angry for being 
bom to a destiny it did not wish to bear, and its inter 
nal venom and hatred molded its body to the reptil 
ian form it wears today. Now', it simply responds to 
primal drives of hunger and territory, though it is 
certainly more dangerous than any animal. 

Originally the son ol the Prince Malik el-Badr, a 
sorcerer and the last ruler of the lands now r known 
only by their monstrous inhabitant, Bali rebelled at 
an early age. He preferred the security of the iso 
lated study of magic, and he put his faith in shad 
ows and intrigue, not the honor and trust of his 
father's way. The Prince wanted nothing but the 
best for his son and raised him to the best of his 
ability; his son's darker side, however, was too 
strong and too deeply rooted. 

The Scrolls of the Tainted gives a brief history' of the 
Basilisk, but it contradicts what the awnshegh says 
about itself. The scrolls state that the Prince con 
jured the Basilisk from a vat of venom, sulfur, and 
malignity', and cast his heinous incantations over the 
vile fluids, Out from this abominable ichor rose the 
Basilisk, who followed the Prince's every bidding, 

It is certainly likely that neither source is per 
fectly accurate, and the Basilisk as it exists today 
can never tell us the truth of its existence. Its past 
and its path of becoming the heinous abomination it 
is now are lost deep within the recesses of a poi 
soned, corrupt mind. All anyone needs 


know now of the Basilisk is that it is a shrewd, 
malignant brute that enjoys torturing its prey, not 
unlike a cat toying with a mouse. It has brought 
ruin upon this once spectacular plain, and its poiso 
nous reek lingers on everything it has ever touched. 



Intelligence: Semi- (3) 

Activity Cycle: Day 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Neutral evil 
Movement: 15 
Size: M {T long) 

Armor Class: 5 
Hrr Points; 74 
Saves As: W16 
THACO: 12 

No. of Attacks: 6 (bite/tail lash/4 claws) 
Damage/Attack: Id8/ld4/ld6 (x4) 
Special Attacks: Stench, Poison gaze 
Special Defenses: Stench 
Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale: 12 

Blood: Major (Azrai) 48 
Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Great), 
Death Touch (Major), Invulnerability 
(Great), Major Resistance- 

Poison (Great), Poison Sense 
(Minor), Regeneration 
(Minor) 

XP Value: 17,000 




. *' rm 


4M 


i * J.3 

i I 











Once human, the Basilisk barely 
retains the appearance of such. The Basilisk is 
a man-sized creature that appears closer to a reptile 
than its formerly human nature. It is covered with 
rusty scales that ooze a clear, poisonous secretion. 
That same poison drips from its fangs and sharp 
daws in more concentrated forms. The Basilisks 
eyes have no irises, its external ears have fallen 
away, and its spine has extended into a large, pre 
hensile tail. The Basilisk has no body hair, and it has 
a crest running from head to the small of its back. 

The Basilisk's standard attacks involve slashing 
with its claws and biting its primary foe. Both the 
claw and bite attacks deliver the awnshegh s death 
touch ability in addition to their normal damage, 
The Basilisk's tail is often used as a bludgeoning 
weapon, Lhough it can wrap around one target and 
hold it with 18/00 Strength, 

The slime covering the awnshegh's scaly skin has 
a caustic reek that can be detected miles away and 
this stench can linger for weeks after the Basilisks 
passing; in a calm breeze, the stink can even be 
detected upwind. Within 60 feet of the Basilisk, the 
stench has a ruinous effect on the creature's oppo 
nents (or any creatures), A saving throw vs, poison 
must immediately be rolled; if failed, the victim can 
do nothing but fall to the ground paralyzed by nau 
sea that continues for Id 10 rounds or until the 
stench is gone. Those who make the saving throw 
suffer a *2 on all attack rolls and saving throws while 
in the stench. If any flesh touches the slime, it lakes 
ld3 points of damage. 


With. its gaze T the 

Basilisk can cause any fluid to change 
into deadly poison. Pools of water it glances at 
are instantly envenomed, bodies of water are tem 
porarily polluted, and heavy fogs change into poiso 
nous mists; all who drink or breathe the poisons 
must make a saving throw vs T poison or suffer ld8 
points of damage. If a living creature is looked at, 
the water contained in the eyes, tear ducts, and 
mouth are poisoned unless a saving throw vs. poison 
is successful. If the saving throw is failed, the victim 
loses ld4 points of Strength and Constitution per 
round. If either statistic is reduced to 0 or four 
rounds elapse without aiding the poisoned charac 
ter, the victim dies. If the toxins are neutralized in 
four rounds, all statistics and the Movement Rate 
return to normal in ld6 hours. 

Realm Name: The Basilisk's Domain 
Looyhon; East of the Tarv an Waste 
Alignment: Neutral evil 
STATUS: Not available for PC use 
Provinces/Houjings: 

Law: There is nothing hut lawlessness in this poi 
soned land, with brigands, giants, and an awnshegh 
imposing order by force. The giants control a hold 
ing (1) in Broken IT ills. 

Temples; The once-great temples were shattered 
over a century ago by one of the Basilisk's rampages. 








Skeletal remains of the clerics Utter the ruins of their 
temple in el-Besr. 

Guilds; Guild holdings are restricted to the paltry 
collections of loot made hv Kalilah Sun-eyes' Dark 
Blades or the giants' raiding parties (one point each 
in el-Besr and Broken Hills). 

Sources: Up until the last century, the magic here 
was strictly and greedily controlled by the Basilisk. 
There are ley lines established to draw power to its 
seat of power at Brokendale, but it has been 
decades since any force has used the powers here. 
While most agree that the beast cannot control the 
power any longer, few are willing to venture into 
Brokendale to test their theories. They also believe 
the pollution of the lands by the Basilisk have 
destroyed much of the magical potential of the terri 
tory anyway. 

Regency Generated/Accumulated: 2/10 RP 
Gold Generated/Accumulated; 0/12 GB 

Army: None 

Regent: This lawless land is directly ruled by no 
one, but the Basilisk remains the only true control 
ling power within its blasted homeland. 

Lieutenants': The Basilisk has no followers or 
immediate support, since no one survives its ven 
omous presence for long. 

Important NPCs: Outlaws called the Darkblades 
have recently established a lair in el-Besr. Unlike 
the other marauders scattered within the 
Basilisk's domain, the Darkblades consider them 
selves exiles from their native land of Aftane. 
Their leader. Kalilah Sun-Eves, claims to be the 
daughter of the deposed sultan of Aftane. and 
heir to the throne usurped by the Red Kings. 
Kalilah is a striking woman, a skilled sorceress, 
and an accomplished leader. Her hand has done 
well in the new' hideout, and many Darkblades 
wonder if their leader's enchantments have 
charmed the Basilisk since it has not challenged 
their presence. 

The Broken Hills are home to a hill 
giant clan that lives in a stock 
ade overlooking 


the Zhamge. The giants 
periodically trade with bold 
rivermen, exchanging their live 
stock for tools or baubles. More often, 
they raid the southern provinces of 
Kozlovnvy. The Basilisk has eaten the giants' cattle 
and sheep for years, and several giants Have died 
trying to slay the beast. Now. they simply drive their 
herds into the stockade when they smell the 
Basilisk. 

Domain Description: Once this area was part of 
Djira and was known for its ideal grazing land. The 
Basilisk's arrival 400 years ago changed that. The 
awnshegh destroyed the towns and palaces of the 
Djirans, leaving a scarred and poisoned landscape 
littered with nothing but ruins and corpses in its 
wake. After dozens of attempts to kill the creature, 
the region was abandoned and inhabitants migrated 
elsewhere. 

Now, the entire domain is an envenomed waste 
land. Great tracts of land are permanently fouled by 
the beast's presence; trees and the soil are black 
ened and dead, all normal animals have fled, and 
even springs and aquifers are poisonous. Anyone 
entering this region should bring food and water to 
survive the passage through this domain. 

Crumbling boroughs and castles dot the land 
scape. Looters have picked these ruins clean, 
although many perished as a result of their fool 
hardy ventures. Many treasure hunters believe that 
these ruins still hold much wealth, and insist that 
vaults still lie unspoiled beneath the ruins of the 
Golden Horn, the great castle now inhabited by the 
Basilisk. 

Domain Capital: Golden Horn 
Domain Villages; Broken Hills. el-Besr 
Special Locations: Zhamge River 
Trade Goods: No trade is conducted with 
surrounding domains due to lack of 



boar ^ 

N o interview was possible with the 

Boar, since it was and still is a dan 
gerous beast with no discernible mind 
whatsoever However sages were able to peaceably 
contact the druids of Thuringode to gain their 
insights on the beast. The druids of Thuringode are 
a secretive group and they allowed this interview 
only on the grounds that the location of their 
stronghold never be revealed. The interviewed 
druid appeared to be a younger man of Anuirean 
descent, and his name was Samoveh 


"So you would leant of the Bane of Thuringode, for 
that is how it is known within our sylvan home. 
Listen well and record my words for those who 
might read this long after my voice should fail to 
reach others' ears. 

"Now, the outskirts and the outer rim of the for 
est are left wild and almost hostile to its inhabitants 
and invaders alike. Bandits, gnolly and a few goblin 
tribes exist within that harsh territory and we are 
careful to stay well-hidden from such distasteful 
people, That dense, dark thicket and its unsavory 
inhabitants should be enough to deter all but the 
most foolhardy explorers. Still, there are rare occa 
sions that a person or group of inimical intentions 
enters the heart of the woods searching for trea 
sures or some other wild fabled goal. It is in human 
nature to seek that which is hidden, and the shad 
ow boughs of Thuringode apparently hold enough 
mystery to drive greedy souls into its murky depths 
in search of answers, 

"It was a number of seasons ago-thirty, more or 
less-that the heart of our forest was invaded by 
human despoilers, Someone dressed as a local 
noble-his heraldry was unknown to me and my 
comrades-led a hunting party into 
the forest and was wantonly 
destroying trees and 
wildlife. We and a few 
dry ad allies 
descended upon 
the plunderers, 
giving them 
fair warn 
ing and 






suggesting they remove themselves from the woods. 
They resisted with weapons and spells, staying my 
mother and two dryads in anger. This brought the 
wrath of Thuringode's protectors down on the 
noble's party 

"In the battle that ensued, the noble escaped, 
ignobly abandoning his allies in panic, though he 
was sorely wounded. In my rage, I followed with my 
father, Aldran, both of us wanting this evil mao to 
pay for his crimes. Staggering through the forest, 
the fool stumbled across a boar's den and disturbed 
a mother boar with her young. In his wounded 
state, he was hardly a match for an enraged boar, 
and it gored him to death, 

' While I said a silent prayer to Erik in thanks for 
his servant's aid in the death of my enemy, my litany 
was interrupted by a loud crackling, the likes of 
which I had never heard. My father and ! turned 
and witnessed a wild maelstrom of energy erupt 
from the corpse of the nobleman r Some of the 
energy leapt into the boar, turning its coat white 
and increasing its size by more than half! The rest 
of the energy vortex felled a number of trees all 
around and blasted the ground beneath the 
corpse to bare rock. We realized then 
that this corrupt, grasping 



























nobleman was unde 
servedly filled with the power of 
the gods themselves-the dark blood of 
Azrai, most likely-and his death passed on this 
pow 7 er to the boar, transforming it into an 
awnshegh. My father and I saw the birth of the 
abomination against Erik and nature itself, now 
known as the Boar of Thuringode, Not knowing 
what it would become, we let it live that day. 

"In the intervening years, a number of folk have 
entered the Forest of Thuringode seeking to slay 
the beast. We fully support this, as the creature is 
an abomination against nature and we have little 
enough power to protect our sylvan glades at the 
forest's heart than to kill it ourselves. Unfortu 
nately, many of the blooded heroes who seek to 
hang the Boar s white pelt as a trophy have fallen to 
its savage tusks. With each hunter's death, the Boar 
increases in size, till it is now the size of a house. 
Mv father also fell to its ravening tusks, and I pray 
daily to Erik to see us and our forest saved from this 
baneful monstrosity. Mayhaps your chronicle will 
bring someone of valor and strength enow to bring 
this beast low. Erik be praised, should it be so." 

The Boar is an easily documented awnshegh 
because, unlike many other awnsheghlien, the sto 
ries, eyewitness accounts, and fables regarding the 
Boar do not contradict each other. This, of course, 
makes a sage's or historian's job very easy indeed. 

About 35 years ago, tales of a large white boar of 
unusual ferocity 7 and constitution in the forest of 
Thuringode circulated through the country of 
Massenmarch. The tales spoke of a white beast the 
size of a fortress with tusks as thick as I2-year-old 
oaks and a tempered spirit to match. Everyone 
{those possessing rational thought, at least) avoided 
the woods and prayed the terror would stay put. 

Like even' powerful legend, there's always some 
one who wishes to prove something or make him 
self legendary by killing or conquering it. Thus was 
Alfredo Stade-a man of impeccable features and 
skill. He heard the tales of the Beast of Thuringode 
and believed them to be fables concocted by the 
ale-drenched brains of witless illiterates. He wanted 
to see for himself what the legends held. 

Alfredo searched throughout the country oi 
Massenmarch for a guide who knew the Forest of 
Thuringode well but found no one to aid him. No one 
was willing to step into the forest prowled by the infa 
mous albino awnshegh. After searching for nearly a 
year, he was ready to give up all hope of finding the 
magnificent beast when he heard of an old, contorted 
wizardess with silver hair who lived in a tree on the 
western outskirts of the forest. 


His source was true, 
and he found the tree of the Silver 
Wizardess, as she is called in Stade's jour 
nals. But upon discovering her lair, he also found 
to his amazement that she was hardly the bent old 
crone he had been told about. Within moments of 
meeting, Alfredo was madly in love with a dryad of 
Thuringode. After four years of happily enspelled 
servitude on the outskirts of the woods, he regained 
his freedom and she taught him about the Boar and 
its destructive ways. 

Alfredo Stade went on his way, closely following 
the wizardess's directions on where to find the 
gigantic beast. After traveling through the thick 
trees, pushing through thickets as dense as stone, 
and crossing 
over steep 
hills, he 
reached the 
forest's heart 
when he heard 
a tremendous 
noise ahead. 

He climbed 
an ancient oak 
and peered 
ahead through 
the dense leaves. What he saw almost sent his pan 
icked heart into his throat. The Boar of Thuringode 
stood before him. Its pelt was the purest white, and 
its huge eyes glittered darkly. The beast stood at 
least 32 hands tall at the shoulder. The sparse, 
coarse hair on the Boar hackled when it caught 
Alfredo's scent, but the beast, even at its great size, 
never looked up a nearby tree for the invader. 

After the huge beast snorted, stomped, and left, 
Alfredo climbed down from his lofty seat and ran in 
the other direction until he returned to the safe 
lands of Massenmarch. He never returned to the 
interior of the forest, fearing the power of the 
Boar more than desiring the honor oi killing 
such a creature. 

The Boar still roams Thuringode, killing 
anv and all that cross its path. Alfredo 
Stade, on the other hand, now graying 
and showing the signs of distinction 
and age, comes once a year to the 
tree near the outskirts of the for 
est, hoping to find the wiz 
ardess. His yearning and 
searching are of 
no avail. 







Intelligence; Semi- (3) 

Activity Cycle: Day 
DlEE Omnivore 
Alignment: N 
Movement: 15 
Size: L (14* tall) 

Armor Class: 4 

Hit Points: 82 

Saves As: FI 1 

THACO; 10 

No, or Attacks: 1 

Damage/Attack: 3d 10 (Tusk) 

Special Attacks: Trample 
Special Defenses: Nil 
Magic Resistance; Nil 
Morale: Champion (16) 

Blood: Tainted (Azrai) 16 
Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Great)* 
Invulnerability (Great)* Regeneration (Minor) 
XP Value: 6,000 


The Boar's tusks are its most 
frequently used weapons, and these have 
grown to the size of small logs. Shattered remnants 
of its tusks have been found in various parts of the 
forest, and the pieces are often carved into daggers 
by and for the druids. 

The Boar also has a tendency to charge its prey 
and trample it to death. If the Boar charges for 30 
feet or more and contacts an opponent, it inflicts 
3dl2 points of damage to the trampled victim* 
There are a number of 'lanes" within the western 
and northern sections of Thuringode Forest, areas 
of fallen trees and cleared brush resulting from the 
Boar's charges. The only good effect this has for the 
forest s inhabitants is to create deadfall. lumber and 
firewood without having to incur the druids' or 
dryads' collective w r rath. 

The Boar has been hunted by a number of scions 
of Anuirean and Brecht realms, but none have slain 
the beast. There were two isolated instances where 

the beast appeared 
to be killed, but its 
wounds disappeared 
and it savagely 
gored the surprised 
hunters quickly 
thereafter. It is in 
El my opinion that it 

has an ability pro 
fit tecting it from 

death. At the least, 
separate its head 
from its body to 
slow its recovery 
and perhaps remove 
its tusks . . . ? 

Province Name: 
The Forest of 
Thuringode 
Location: 
Massenmarch 
STATUS: Not available 
for PC ownership 
Alignment: Neutral 


Ihe Forest of 
Thuringode is a 
province of Massen 
march, and all hold 
ings and resources 
are considered prop 
erty of the ruler of 


Like any wild boar, 
the Boar of 
Thuringode prefers 
the forested areas 
that have always 
been its home. It 
eats omnivorously, 
and its former bad 
temper has simply 
increased with its 
size, appetite, and 
power* Of die circle 
of druids that lives 
in the forest, seven 
of them have met 
death under the 
hooves or bv the 

y tusks of the 
Boar simply 
v for crossing 
its path* 








































Massenmarch. However, the druids do control the 
magical sources in the forest, despite some attempts 
from Massenmarch to gain them. 

The Forest of Thuringode has no official standing 
army, nor does Massenmarch place troops there. 
Instead, a circle of 12 druids and 20 dryads try to 
keep the inner forest in pristine condition, safe from 
human exploitation and relatively safe from the 
Boar's ravaging. The outer third of the forest is 
inhabited by four small tribes of goblins, two gnoll 
tribes, and at least one bandit band, all of which raid 
and harrass Kiergard and Massenmarch. 

Important 

NPCS; Elias Oakheart leads the druids' circle of 
Thuringode. He has collected around him a group of 
eleven other druids who serve and learn directly 
from him. Among them are Samovel, Artus, and 
Elias' second, the lovely Gerydda, a Rjurik woman 
with strong ties to the dryads of the forest as well. 

Elias Oakheart (Dll): Int 17. Wis 18: AL N; AC 
6; HD 11; hp 47; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (bat- 
tleaxe); SA spells; SZ M (6' tall); MV 12; ML 18; 
XP 1.420. 

Other Druids (11): Int & Wis 14-16; AL N; AC 6; 
HD 1-6; hp 1 d4+1/HD: THACO Var.; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld6 (quarterstaff, axe. or spear); SA ranged weap 
ons, spells; SZ M (6 tall); MV 12; ML 16; XP 65 
(2), 120 (2), 175 (2), 270 (2), 420 (2), 500 (1). 

Dryads (20): Int 13-14; AL N; AC 9; HD 2; hp 
16; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (knife); SA charm: 
SD dimension door; Save M2; SZ M (5' tall); MV 
12: ML 12; XP 975/ea. 

Domain Description: The forest of Thuringode 
was once a beautifully natural location throughout, 
but it is now primarily seen as a dark, unsettling 
place with the scent of menace all around. The outer 
rim of the woods has been reduced to a dark, 
tangled thicket with an evil reputation. Many ban 
dits, goblins, and gnolls lurk in its trackless mazes. 
Due to this murky and dangerous perimeter as well 
as the horrific and powerful beast that lurks within 
its depths, the Forest of Thuringode is one of few in 
Cerilia that is free of human logging. 

The Boar lives a relatively solitary life 
unlike normal boars who prefer to live 
in small groups, since there are 


no others of its size. 

Recently, a rumor has circulated 
in the capital of Massenmarch stating 
that the druids are trying to give the Boar 
a lifemate. This is a truly frightening concept 
to many. This rumor has spawned many 
a quest into the forest to destroy the Boar and slay 
any and all druids in order to shatter the chances of 
that occurring. Sages, on the other hand, do not put 
stock into this rumor at all: knowing the druids' 
hatred of the twisted and corrupt creature, they fear 
this constant incursion into Thuringode is only 
going to fuel the druids' hostility against outsiders 
even more. 

On occasion, loggers or hunters will enter the 
area to hunt game or saw down trees. If not discov 
ered immediately by the Boar, dryads, or druids, 
they will fell trees while the opportunity presents 
itself. This never lasts more than a few days before 
the incursion is discovered. Soon thereafter, the 
dryads charm the loggers, the druids weave their 
natural magic, and the Boar charges, scattering the 
loggers to the wind. 

Druids, wherever they may live, are very strong 
allies of the inhabitants of the Forest of Thuringode. 
Everyone else throughout the land is either scared 
of the forest or wants the Boar, the druids, and the 
dryads all slain in order to exploit the land fully. The 
lumber available from this area is considered some 
of the best on the continent, second only to the 
quality wood that can be found in the domain of 
another awnshegh, the Spider's wooded domain of 
Spiderfell in central Anuire. 











chimaem 



I mmortality. Though few have the temerity to 
admit it, immortality is the ultimate quest in 
life; for taking your life in your hands and 
seeking to postpone its end makes life worth living, 
"Of course, many a soul has tried to achieve this 
goal, but most have failed- Correction-all have 
failed before me. Yes, there are those corrupt 
beings known as awnsheghlien who have slowed 
time's effects on them, but that is a godly gift. 1. 
on the other hand, chose to seek immortality and 
grant it to myself. Immortality given to you is not 
a prize; to win immortality through your own 
efforts, skills, and creations is the true test and a 
true reward. 

"Now am I known as the Chimaera, and this 
name suits me. There are those who believe that 
my other, more . . . bestial form belies a lack of 
sanity or purity. How drolL How . . . jealous. I 
chose my own path to immortality-who am i to 
curse the gods for the forms 1 wear in that immor 
tality? I am satisfied in my goals-1 shall live for 
ever, and 1 have power. True powder Power over 
the beasts, power over the rabble who laughed 
and scorned me, and power over the destiny of 
our land of Cerilta. 

"I, Damta Kusor, spent my life learning the ways 
ol elves and the ways of humanity. ] studied die liv 
ing and the dead. I learned from the animals, mun 
dane and monstrous alike. That knowledge gained 
for me a glimpse into Life itself and how to postpone 
the coming of death, Am I mad for having done 
this? 1 say nay* a thousand nays! Immortality is 
worth far more than the tortures one endures w hen 
sharing the form of a beast. And power, as many 
can attest who bear AzraVs tainted blood or the 
purest of Anduiras' blood, is worth nearly any 
price. Should these powers make me mad, 
then 1 shall suffer the burden of being 
called mad by lesser, weaker minds. 
Only those who share my gift 
can know the majesty' 
and magnificence 
of true power 
and life ever 
lasting." 



22 



ffi 


f 


Danila Kusor was a wizardess with a penchant for 
necromancy and an alchemical specialist by trade. 
With skills learned from her parents (a Vos midwife 
and an elf herbalist), she specialized in creating 
potions and herbal remedies for common ailments 
like botls. warts, heartburn, rashes, and hair loss. She 
used the profits of her alchemical trade to finance her 
studies of death and her quest for immortality. 

She studied with unequalled vigor, trying to 
determine the reasons for death and aging. Her 
greatest desire was to discover the secrets of 
immortality and eternal youth. 

Danita's first step toward her twisted form of 
immortality was to study death, corpses, and the 
effects of decay on the human condition. Once she 
understood what happened after death, she needed 
to find out if life could be restored to a dead body 
without the intervention of the gods. It was at this 
time that some dose friends noticed a change in her 
thinking, an obsession in her goal barring all else, 
which they blamed on overexposure to her elixirs. 

After years of trial and error, Kusor created a 
glowing, azure elixir that would theoretically satu 
rate a corpse with life once again. Her experiments 
with this elixir led her to believe that no one race or 
species alone could regenerate fully, but a combina 
tion of factors in dwarven* elven, and human physi 
ology could allow her potion to work and reanimate 
the dead tissues, Danita s murders of a number of 
people in Sendoure and the Coulladaraight resulted 
in her being driven away from civilization and into 
the Bamnvmarsh, Many of her potions drew their 
power from the rare and exotic animals that dw F dl 
within the swamp. Eventually, she ended up in the 
Iron Peaks. There, more than a century ago. she 
completed her horrific creation which is now called 
the Bin man (see page 115), 

For nearly a year* Danita Kusor attempted to put 
life into her creation using potions, elixirs, and 
other magics, but none animated the constructed 
corpse-being. After brewing yet another potent 
elixir. Kusor made her latest attempt to resuscitate 
her creature. During the Rinmans immersion in a vat 
of alchemical brew, a minor awnsheghlien (a menace 
then called the Iron Troll by miners of the Iron 
Peaks) invaded Kusor's laboratory, searching 
for food and treasure. She slew* it with an 
array of deadly spells, hut 



she 

suffered grievous 
wounds in the process. 

With the Iron Troll's death, his birthright 
was released in an explosive display of energy 
drawn to both the wounded Danita and her inert 
creation in its alchemical bath, inundating them 
with cascading energy. After absorbing the blood 
taint of Azrai irom the deceased awnshegh, the Bin- 
man quickened to life without being fully alive at 
the same time. It smashed its way out of its bonds 
and alchemical tank, soaking its wounded creator in 
the magically charged chemicals. 

Danita noticed some physical changes in her body 
immediately, but did not gain a chance to act on them 
or study them. The mute Binman quickly gained con 
trol over its powerful body and attacked, using sharp 
shards of its life-giving tank as weapons. Having 
retained some basic warrior's abilities, it attempted to 
kill its creator, but succeeded only in forcing her to 
flee for her life. Soon after its reanimation, the Bin- 
man left the now-ruined tower behind and headed 
out of the Iron Peaks to Binsada. Danita Kusor, 
reluctant to abandon all her equipment and her still- 
unique library of knowledge, soon returned to her 
tower to finish her quest for immortality. 

After her battles with the Iron Troll and the Bin- 
man. Danita knew she had gained some power but 


its exact nature remained unknown to her. She 
believed the energy affected even' potion within her 
laboratory, and she needed more of that power to 
gain immortality. She combined a number of older 
potions in a reconstructed vat with new ingredients 
such as dried dragon's blood (for ties to a nearly 
immortal creature-a truly rare find!) and the saliva 
of a displacer beast (a connection to the Shadow 
World, where death is near but always far). She cast 
various spells into the magical mixture, charging it 
with energy she believed would revive the power 
left by the Iron Troll's death throes. W r hen she 
immersed herself in her magical, energy-laden vat 
of liquids, she was a highly focused and powerful 
half-elven wizardess; what exited the vat in an erup 
tion of power and pain was a partially human form 
with dragon's wings and four arms that soon 
became known as the Chimaera. 

Over the past century, Danita's form has 
advanced further into an awnshegh state, though 
due to the odd circumstances of her power acquisi 
tion, she can revert to her original form for short 
periods of time. Neither her Chimaera form nor her 
true half-elven form are fully sane, but she is a bit 
more lucid in female form; her beast-form is feral 
and dangerous. Since her initial transformation, she 
allegedly can wear her normal form only when calm 
or under a full moon, though this may be little more 
than a false tale. Danita Kusor has been seen in a 











































number of forms over the past few decades, and there 
seems to be little rhyme or reason to her shapechang 
ing other than her own will. With tier newly assumed 
power, Danila used her burgeoning might to exert her 
will over the areas surrounding her tower, and the 
land now bears her name as the Chimaeron. 

What was once the greatest library in Anuire 
devoted to the studies of life* death, and states in- 
between has lain in shambles for over 50 years. 

_ While 


Danita can 
still talk in 
either 
form with 
intelligent 
beings, her 
reasons for 
destroying 
her 
research 
are hid 
den. Does 
she wish 
for no one 

else to learn her secrets, or is it just a sign of mad 
ness? None are so curious as to ask her directly 
and risk almost certain death, and she offers no 
clues to her motives. 

In recent decades, many blooded daredevils 
from Rohxmarch, Coeranys, and Osoerde have 
tried to kill the Chimaera. to no avail. With the 
death of these empowered heroes, she has grown 
even stronger still, but at an apparent cost. Her 
usual contacts with the governing body of Chi 
maeron report that she is less clearheaded and far 
more brutal now than ever before. Some goat 
herders who live close to the ruined tower of 
Danita Kusor. now known as the Chimaeron 
Refuge, say the creature has been changing, alter 
ing her appearance, and increasing her appetite. 

She is never seen wandering the hills in her 
female form, a habit she had for nearly three 
decades, These uneducated herders are 
incapable of fully vocalizing what hor 
rors they may have seen, but their 
fear and their anger at the losses 
in crops and animals are real 
enough. 


* 






"4 






Danita 

-?- 

Chimaera 

19 

Intelligence 

6 

Any 

Activity Cycle 

Any 

Omnivore 

Diet 

Omnivore 

Chaotic evil 

Alignment 

Chaotic evil 

12 

Movement 

15, FI 18 (C) 

M (5 + tall) 

Size 

L (IT long} 

10 

Armor Class 

1 

87 

Hit Points 

87 

WI3 

Saves As 

W13 

9 

THACO 

5 

i 

No. of Attacks 

5 (bite/claws) 

Bv weapon 

Damage/Attack 

3d4/2d4 (x4) 

Spells 

Special Attacks 

Nil 

Nil 

Special Defenses 

-2 on foe's THACO 

Nil 

Magic Resistance 

Nil 

Elite (14) 

Morale 

Elite (14) 

n,ooo 

XP Value 

_?_ 

13,000 


Blood: Minor (Azrai) 38 

Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Special; Great), 
Divine Aura (Major Aura), Enhanced Senses 
(Minor), Long Life (Major), Regeneration-Stan 
dard and Major (Great) 

The Chimaera prefers to begin combat with a sur 
prise attack; usually, she swoops down on her oppo 
nents from the air. Aerial tactics are her standard, as 
she often hovers low over targets and daws at them 
with four or more of her bestial claws, Her second 
set of arms always stays in humanoid form, and she 
can wield wands or daggers in them. 

The Chimaera can be bargained with, and she is 
willing to discuss terms with any she considers her 
prey. This, of course, depends on a variety of fac 
tors, including her hunger, patience, and the moon's 
presence-Danitas intense personality stabilizes as 
the moon grows fuller. While still intelligent, she 
lacks Wisdom (Wis 8); if she is angered by insults, 
attacks, or mere whim, make a Wisdom check to 
keep her from immediately attacking in beast form. 

Realm Name: Chimaeron 

Location: North of the Gulf of Coeranys, near the 
Iron Peaks 

Alignment: Chaotic evil 
Status: Not available for PC use. 







Provinces/Holdings: 

While the Chimaera is the 
official regent of her namesake 
domain, she is most often a ruler in 
absentia, allowing the Council of Leaders 
relatively free reign in controlling the land. On infre 
quent occasions, she will emerge from Chimaeron 
Refuge and make demands of the Council of Lead 
ers, though she has not done so in over 10 years, 

The Chimaera does, however, keep incredibly 
tight control over the magic sources within the Chi 
maeron. and anyone attempting to tap into any of 
this power is subject to her immediate attack; she 
has played a game of cat-and-mouse with a group of 
mages known only as Three Brothers, allowing them 
to find and control some sources and biding her 
time before removing them from her domain. 

There allegedly are temples to Nesirie and 
Cuiraecen hidden high up in the peaks of the moun 
tains, hut no one knows what lone priests might 
maintain them. 


? 


Province 

Law 

Temples 

Guilds 

Sources 

Bamiere (1/4) 

CoL(l) 

- 

- 

Ch (4) 

Careine (2/6) 

CoL(l) 

TF (1) 

CoL (2) 

Ch (5) 

Hamein (1/5) 

CoL(l) 

WB (1) 

CoL(l) 

TBM (4) 

Lyssan (2/7) 

CoL (2) 

WBfl) 
TF (1) 

CoL (2) 

Ch(7) 

Mhowe (2/4) 

CoL (2) 

- 

Col (2) 

TBM (4) 

Ruorkhe (1/6) 

CoL(l) 

- 

Cold) 

Ch (6) 

Sakiene (1/5) 

CoL (1) 

- 

- 

Ch (5) 


Abbreviations: CoL=Coundl of Leaders: Ch=the Chimaera; 
TF=The Fortress (Tugaere Issimane): WB=Water's Blessing 
(Phisaid Uriene); TBM=Three Brother Mages. 

-- + - 

Regency Generafed/Accumuiated: 26 RP/35 RP 

(Chimaera); 2 RP/4 RP (Council Leader/ea.) 

Gold Generated/Accumulated: 0 GB/8 GB 
(Chimaera); 1 GB/2 GB (Council Leader/ea.) 

The leaders of the Council, as the Chimaeras vas 
sals, donate 1 RP/tum and 1 GB/turn to her. 

Army: The Chimaeron does not have a 
standing army, relying instead upon a 
militia-like constabulary. 

Summoned from each 
village or small 
city, the total 
forces that 



















can be rallied in the Chimaeron count 
100 members. These 100 policing officials 
are effective as local sheriffs and. peacekeep 
ers, but they are not trained to work as an army 
However, they are very good at small-group skir 
mishes and ambush attacks, 

Constabulary (100) tnt 8-12; AL N; AC 10; HD 
1-1; hp 3; THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; Save FO; 
SZ M (6' tall); MV 12; ML 8; XP 15/ea. 

Regent; Chimaera, with the Council of Leaders 

LIEUTENANTS; The Council of Leaders consists of 
nine members, one from each town and village. They 
make laws, collect taxes, and pay for the salaries of 
the constabulary. At! of the leaders are charismatic 
and powerful local bosses, though their power bases 
vary in nature; only two of them are natives, while all 
others are fugitives from the justice of outlying 
domains. The Council's leaders are as follows: 

Bamiere: This poor village is occupied by farmers* 
expatriate Khinasi, and fugitives from other domains' 
justice. Living on the outskirts of the Chimaera's 
shadow, this village has more Khinasi influences than 
Anuirean, reinforced by its mayor, Hakim el-Qadr. 

Careine: This town is one of the most developed 
in the Chimareon and is ruled by Lord Mayor Cow 
ell, an exiled Anuirean wanted for murder in three 
provinces in Medoere and AvaniL While he is a known 
extortionist, he manages to maintain a few small trade 
routes with Coeranys and Barok-Azhik. 

Hamein: This inner port controls the mouth of 
the river leading into Rohrmarch, and thus holds a 
large bargaining chip with that country, The town s 
mayor, Lord Myonos t often is heard promising visi 
tors "anything is possible here in Lagos for a price/ 1 
The town is named after the natives' original name 
for the lake to the north, 

Luandar: Ruled by an unscrupulous paranoid 
Rjurik named Qtslof Luandar is a poor, dirty port 
on the border with Coeranvs. About die only 
reason for folk to visit this port in the 
province of Lyssan is to seek a 
4 pirate crew or an assassin, 

Lyssan; The domain 
capital solely by its 
central location, 
this town is 
a small 


' HjjL. 4 * -i 

M* ¦ \ 




collection of stone and wood buildings built onto a 
mountain plateau* A large tower rises against the east 
ern cliff, and this is the meeting place of the Council 
of Leaders. This towns money k garnered from min 
ing and smithwork (both in weapons and jewelry). 
Lord Mayor Yuri Khavlor was once a Vos druid who 
lost his faith in Erik and gained a love for gold. 

Mhovve; This is the richest town and port of Chi- 
maeron, hands down, and it is the best kept town 
simply because of its distance from the attentions 
of its monstrous overlord. The self-proclaimed 
"Prince" Denerik is a fugitive from Brecht justice 
and has been branded a "pirate and thief of the low 
est order/' Denerik controls much business and 
trade from his tower at the town's center, including 
some minor smuggling through the brigands in 
Harrowmarsh, He* foremost among all his compa 
triots in the Council of Leaders, wants to take con 
trol of the country, and hoards poisons of a most 
virulent sort in planning the removal of his fellow 
Council members, 

Ruorkhe; Directly under the ga^e of the Chi- 
maera, Ruorkhe is a blasted, ruined village of poorly 
kept hovels and storehouses. However, Ruorkhe is 
also one of the Chimaeron s richer towns. Much of 
Ruorkhe s life takes place underground, as it affords 
better protection from the Chimaera's rages. The 
person responsible for this deceptive place and its 
lower tunnels and chambers is the town's leader, an 
exiled dwarf named Charrek Iron fist. 

Saiviene: Farther out in the Gulf of Coeranvs, 
Salviene is prosperous due to its gambling and 
excesses not found in ports within Coeranvs. Its 
ruler Chandof a self-proclaimed duke, is a native of 
the Chimaeron, 

Tulear: This small port in the province of Mhowe 
stays alive because of its industrious shipbuilding. 
It is the only settlement within the Chimaeron not 
dominated by criminals and fugitives, and its leader. 
Mayor Shanol, seems woefully out of place as an 
honest, hard worker among his fellow' leaders. 

Domain Description; Thirty years ago, the iso 
lated and self-sufficient settlements within the Chi 
maeron attempted to rid themselves of the 
Chimaera. It was the first time they worked 
together, and this brought them under 
one flag and under one 



leadership. When this new country was formed, 
Lyssan was chosen as its capital due to its central 
ized location, size, and revenue. The Council of 
Leaders was stationed there the following week. 

When the Council of Leaders at Lyssan were 
unsuccessful at destroying the Chimaera, she met 
with them and threatened each of them with the 
utter destruction of their towns and their power 
bases, while sparing their lives. She would withhold 
such destruction if she were granted titular rule and 
granted concessions at her whims. Having little or 
no bargaining positions to work from, the Council 
of Leaders acceded regency rule to the Chimaera. 

To placate her (and the populace), dangerous 
criminals who are caught are "allowed the chance to 
work for society and slay the fearsome creature that 
holds us in her grasp." Serious disruptors of the sta 
tus quo are ushered to the Chimaeron Refuge 
under the pretense of slaying the Chimaera; these 
criminals are quickly killed by the Chimaera. The 
Council enjoys this easy method of disposing of 
overly troublesome elements. 

This new realm, called the Chimaeron, is not a 
force in the political arena of either Anuire or Khi- 
nasi. It has trade agreements with nearby domains, 
but it carries no political weight whatsoever. Mili 
tarily, they are even weaker-the only thing that 
prevents an invasion is the awn she gh and the out 
siders' fear of her leading the troops. 

Domain Capital: Lyssan 

Domain Towns: Careine Town, Salviene, Hamein, 
Mhowe, Tulear 

Domain Villages: Bamiere, Ruorkhe, Luandar 
Special Locations: Broken Hill. Chimaeron 
Refuge. Iron Peaks, Table Mountain 


Trade Goods: Filled 
mostly with herders and 
hunters, the Chimaeron 
exports beef and lamb, 
as well as hides and wool 
for clothing and rope. 
Several businesses in 
Tulear utilize these raw 
materials to make sails, 
leather armor, and cloth 
ing, selling them to 
nearby countries and at 
the docks. The Chi 
maeron also has a few 
farms, but the produce is 
for internal consumption. 

Allies; The Chimaeron 
has good relations with 
Rohrmarch, Open trade 
exists between these countries. A single trade route 
runs through the Chimaeron and passes through 
Careine, Ruorkhe, and Barniere, allowing 
Rohrmarch to trade freely with minimal fees for 
routing through the Chimaeron. 

Special Conditions: A blooded hero-well on his 
way to becoming an Ehrshegh-is rumored to exist 
within the Chimaeron. and will destroy the Chi 
maera: a few of the Council and many natives cling 
to this hope. A few guides for our sages identified a 
lonely cave within the Iron Peaks as the home of this 
rumored savior. If rumors are held to be true, this 
hero is a blooded warrior dedicated to Vorynn, and he 
is slowly taking a huge bear's form. Called the Bruin, 
this rumored savior keeps his true name secret. 











4*2 




i 


27 
















































































































I was the firstborn of the Lord of the First House 
of Andu, but since I was a bastard birth, I did 
not enjoy the prestige and glory my two 
younger legitimate brothers were given. 1 never let 
this disappointment show, and that might have been 
my downfall, I think our father loved me more, but 
found it impossible, due to cultural restraints, to show 
it properly. But then again, that was also his downfall. 

"In spite of the restra ints placed on me because of 
my lack of proper station, l was able to associate 
with my half-brothers; my father was kind enough 
to let me live in the same house as he. his wife, and 
his two legitimate sons. I taught my brothers much 
of my skill at swordplay and horsemanship, and my 
tutoring ga%'e both Haelyn and Roele an excellent 
grasp of the fundamentals of warfare. After several 
years as their teacher, I started yearning to see the 
world, so w'hen 1 turned 16 years of age, I left to 
explore Ceriiia. I felt my brothers were the only 
ones who cared about my leaving. 

"I traveled about, grappling with monsters and ban 
dits, slowly increasing my abilities as a warrior. I felt 
that I was on the way to help shape the course of the 
world. Everywhere I went, I was seen as the charis 
matic leader and heroic warrior of great promise that 
1 truly was. For once in my life, 1 w r as seen as someone 
other than an illegitimate heir, and my confidence 
grew with my popularity' among the people, 

"I eventually fell in with a woman and her band ol 
warriors in southern Anuire, She hoped to lead us 
against a tribe of gnoll raiders ard take back the 
wealth the jackal-men had spent years stealing from 
passing caravans. After tw r o months of constant 
fighting, w'e succeeded in capturing their den and 
securing their horde. Unfortunately, my compan 
ions all died in that last battle or shortly thereafter 
from w'ounds. Despite the victory, there was no one 
to share it and the wealth. I was overwhelmed with 
grief that day, for that woman, the fair Syflandara, 
was to bear me a son. I lost both that day. 

"When I returned home, battle-wearv and 
scarred, my father gave me the title Black Prince, 
as mv armor had turned a sooty color 
during my adventures. Despite 
my many victories 


and the accolades from 
our people, one thing 
changed about my relationship 
with my sire: He never told me any 
thing in confidence after my return, as if he 
no longer trusted me. I felt that my newly-acquired 
experience and popularity should never have gained 
me such treatment-it should have granted me 
rightful recognition with my far-less-deserving 
brethren. I never forgave him lor that, and over 
many months, my anger grew. 

"After a particularly exceptional night of indulgence 
soon after my father's death, I had a remarkable dream 
which set my feet on the path to power undreamt by 
mortal man before. Fog enshrouded our entire empire, 
and out of that fog came a clear vision of a handsome 
male face. He spoke to me, consoled me in my discon 
tent, and made me see things the way I should have 
seen them years before. He told me he understood the 
anguish I felt because I, being my father's eldest son, 
received no birthright w hen he passed away and held 
nothing now except pitiable indulgences. He told me 
he held the legacy that was rightfully mine, and all I 
needed to do was ask for it. 1 did, and he made me his 
son and heir. I knelt to this powerful vision that filled 
me with power and might and rage. 1 now was the off 
spring of Azrai, and no longer w'ould 1 hold ties with 
my more worthy brothers. 

"I quietly garnered supporters from across the 
Andu lands, for my new' sire recommended guile and 
patience in building our power, not wielding the brute 
rage 1 had held in check for so long. With my best art 
fulness, 1 went to the tribes of the Andu to seek allies 
and was not disappointed at the backing I received. 
Many people, especially the warriors and magicians, 
were ready for change and itching for power. The 
complacency they upheld was wearing thin and not 
suited to their restless spirits. When our time came, 
my allies and I made our true power and desires 
knowm at Deismaar; I had the chance to show my 
upstart brothers Roele and Haelyn who 
should truly rule. 








fd ,. 

a-jfc : 

t dfJm 




"When the gods destroyed them 
selves to kill my patron and the only one 
of them who understood power, I gained 
much as Azmi's third Champion* though not as 
much as Azrai T s other favorites, My anger against 
my brothers kept me on Cerilia, 
rather than rising to godhood like Kriesha and 
Belinik. 1 absorbed much of Azrai's dsvindling 
essence, and the battle I fought with my brothers 
over the empire was over for the moment. The earth 
splitting force of the gods 4 destruction shattered both 
Mount Detsrnaar and the empire, scattering all the 
armies and their principals far and wide* 

In the years of wandering that followed, I showed 
the many lessen* who crossed my path what made 
me the sole remaining Champion of Azrai and 
rightful ruler of Cerilia. And with each victory, mv 
might grew. And my power changed me, shaped me 
into a fearsome creature that men called Gorgon* It 
matters little-I am still Raesene, no matter what 
tag they give me, and I shall rule* 

"'When the time came for Michael Rode and me 
to meet on the field of battle, I was victorious, 
From his faintly beating heart* I tore the power and 
the birthright that was due me all those years 
before. Anuires power was crushed and fear and 
confusion blew society apart like the house of cards 
that it was . For the House of Roele knew nothing of 
power nor how to wield it. Look at it today-the 
landscape dotted with idiots pompously perched on 
little thrones, hardly conceiving of what they do, let 
alone how they do it. Should they ever learn to act 
in concert and wield their might, I could be inter 
ested in hearing what they say. As it is. they are 
little more than crowned lambs awaiting slaughter." 

While it is not my place to correct or argue truth or 
its nature with one so versed with power as the Black 
Prince. Raesene* much of his diatribe is peppered 
with subjective half-truths, to say the least. If 
one reads the historical records of Cerilia (all 
cultures, not just Anuirean), the truth 
always fails somewhere in between, 
and the Gorgon's story does 
not in many cases* 
According to the 
personal diary 
of a known 
tutor of 



30 


Roele's at the Anuirean court, Racsene returned 
from his adventures across Cerilia a changed man* 
His mind was corrupt and power-mad. and his 
anger rotted him away from inside, leaving nothing 
but contempt and feelings of vengeance* The king 
sensed this and confided his dread in the tutor with 
this dread fully in mind, Raesene*s father granted 
him the title of the Black Prince, a title which still 
follows him today. Normally this version of events 
might be ascribed as hearsay, hut Roele's memoirs 
also recount this scene and both accounts are iden 
tical in all ways. Raesene's fall and Azrai's ultimate 
plans for the Anuirean traitor are not recorded for 
history, leading many into conjecture about exactly 
what drove both the Shadow Lord and his Cham 
pion to their fates. It can be assumed that Azrai 
wanted to have an ultimate champion in Cerilia i 
and he wanted that champion to lead the destruc 
tion of Anuire, the gem of Cerilia. He accomplished 
that havoc when Raesene chose his power and thus 
split the ruling family With Azrai's destruction at 









I 


Mount Deismaar, 
any of his plans for Cerilia 
through Raesene ended, and the Gorgon's 
own plans and intrigues began. 
Raesenes motivations began as rather straightfor 
ward and simple things, though they have grown 
hydralike over the passing centuries. A thirst for power 
and influence drove him first from his father's favor 
and finally from the favor of any save the most evil of 
the gods. Raesene, blind with years of anger and jeal 
ousy. once wanted nothing more than to destroy his 
privileged ha lf-brothers. Now. his original goal either 
accomplished or out of his reach, he seeks to undo any 
of their works and gamer more power for himself. 

A number of 
hidden sources 
within Kal- 
Saitharak and out 
lying provinces 
within the Gor 
gon's Crown say 
that the Gorgon's 
final battle with 
the House of 
Roele was not as 

great a victory' as often painted. When they fought 
at Battlewaite, Raesene underestimated his young 
foe s determination to save his people from the 
Gorgon. He gained huge amounts of power, but 
that drove the last remnants of humanity out of 
him. While he still believes himself to be Raesene, 
all that truly remains is the Gorgon, 

The greatest rumor of this battle involves Michael 
Roele's final sacrifice for his people. With his dying 
breath, he apparently was able to somehow' tap into 
his reservoirs of strength and ground much of his 
escaping power as he died. If this is true, the Gor 
gon ultimately lost more power than he gained with 
the murder and bloodtheft; some who believe in 
this tale also believe the Gorgon's own power is tied 
to his castle, and he may be diminished if he should 
he leave the walls of Battlewaite. There is little evi 
dence, beyond hope, to support this idea, but any 
one who visits the castle can feel the walls hum with 
confined power. 



Intelligence: 19 (Supragenius) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 9 
Size: L (8' tall) 

Armor CLASS: 0 (base); -10 (with armor) 
Hit Points: 170 


Saves As: F25 

THACO: -4 (base); 8 (Strength plus spec.) 

No, of Attacks: 2 (fists) or 5/2 (specialized 
weapon) or 2/1 (ordinary weapon) 
Damage/Attack: ld8 (fist or by weapon) 

Special Attacks: Kick, gaze attack, weapon 
specialization. 

SPECIAL Defenses: +2 or better weapon to hit, 
immune to gaze attacks 
Magic Resistance: 40% 

Morale: 20 (fearless) 

Blood: True (Azrai) 100+ 

Blood Abilities: Alertness (Minor), Bloodform 
(Great). Divine Aura (Great), Heightened Ability 
(Great), Long Life (Great), Poison Sense (Minor), 
Regeneration-Standard and Major (Great) 

XP Value: 32,000 

S: 20 (+3/+S) D: 15 (0, 0,-1) C: 21 (+6 hp/tevel) 
I: 19 W: 18 Ch: 18 


The once-human Raesene the Black Prince has 
been the Gorgon for centuries now, and he is the 
most feared awnshegh in all Cerilia. He is a mas 
sive, giant, stony-skinned humanoid with a bull-like 
head complete with horns, and powerful goatlike 
legs with diamond-hard hooves. Everything about 
the Gorgon suggests that he is power and terror 
personified. 

When human, Raesene was one of Anuire's pre 
mier swordsmen. He was skilled in many weapons, 
and even specialized in a few, making him a truly 
dangerous foe. Now, with more than a thousand 
years of weapons practice and warfare, he wields 
nearly every weapon found in Cerilia as if he were a 
specialist with it (only a 5% chance that the Gorgon 
does not gain specialization bonuses). 

As if his physical s kills are not complete, the Gor 
gon has two potent gaze attacks that he can use 
once every other round. After a full round of con 
centrating on one foe (no more than parrying 
attacks), he can turn his target to stone or cause 
it to fall dead on the spot. The stone gaze 
attack requires a saving throw vs. petrifica 
tion with a -2 penalty. The second 
demands a save vs. death magic. 

Finally, the Gorgon can but rarely 
uses his goatlike legs to deliver 
a powerful kick (2d6 points 
of damage). He can kick 
even while making ( 
an ordinary 
attack. 


m*; 








but he takes a +2 AC penalty for 
the entire round to do so. 

The Gorgon's defeases are formidable as well. First, 
his stony skin gives him an AC ol 0, His bloodfamt 
also grants him a 40% magic resistance and immunity 
to weapons of less than +2 enchantments. 

His magical armor and weaponry includes: Kingsrop- 
per, a giant-sized suit of plate mud +5; A Gentle Word, a 
shield +5; and Llfertder, a great sword made of tigh- 
maevril and the Colon's primary weapon of choice. 



I Realm Name: 

| The Gorgon's Crown 
Location: North of 

I Kiergard and southeast 
of the Giantdowm 
Alignment; Lawful evil 
Status: Unavailable for 
PC use 

Provinces/Holdtntgs; 
While the Gorgon controls everything within his 
domains, he does parcel out some small amount of 
responsibility to his vassals, both to test their loyal 
ties and to free him from the drudgery of overseeing 


all such operations directly. 


Province Law 

Abattoir (3/6) Go (3) 
Anathar (1/6) Go (1) 
Elfseves (2/7) Go (2) 
Jogh Warren (3/3) Go (3) 
Kal-Saitharak (4/5) Go M) 
Mettle (2/4) Go (2) 

Motile (2/3) Go (2) 

Mutian's Point (1/6) Go (l) 
Omg T s Head (2/5) Go (2) 
Pelt (1/6) Go (1) 

Plumbago (2/5) Go (2) 
Sage's Fen (2/5) Go (2) 
Sere* Hold (2/4) Go (2) 
, Sideath (2/7) Go (2) 

1 Stone s End (1/6) Go (1) 
T Sunder Falk (1/4) Go (1) 
if Zaptig (2/5) Go (2) 


Temples 

Guilds 

Sources 

- 

- 

Go (6) 

HOA(l) 

- 

Go (4) 

- 

- 

Go (7) 


- 

Go (2) 

HOA {4} 

- 

Go (5) 


- 

Go (3) 


* ¦ • 

Go (3) 

HOA(1) 

- 

Go (4) 

_ 

- 

Go (4) 

_ 

- 

Go (4) 

_ 

- 

Go (5) 

HOA (2) 

- 

Go (5) 

_ 

- 

Go (4) 

HOA (2) 

- 

Go (5) 

HOA (1) 

- 

Go (4) 

HOAH) 

- 

Go (3) 

- 

- 

Go (4) 


. Abbreviations: Goethe Gorgon; HOA=Hand of Azrai 

mmm 



Regeno' Gen eMfeb/ Accumulated: 
90+ (additional RP from vassal rulers 
of Kiergard, Markazor and Mur- 
Kilad) /200 RP. 
Gold Generated/ 

^CUMULATED: 60+ 

GB/150+ GB 


Army: The Gorgon's 
army is a collection of the dregs of 
Cerilia. He controls captive goblin forces from 
the Stone Gaze campaigns, gnolls expelled from 
the Giantdowns, orogs from the south, a number 
of troll mercenary troops out of the Hoarfeil 
Mountains, and evil dwarves and Anuirean 
humans whose ancestors believed Raesene to be a 
true power of unstoppable proportions. Kiras 
Earthcore. the Gorgon*s immediate lieutenant, 
spends much time keeping the racial factions in 
the army from killing each other. Aside from harsh 
discipline or keeping them on the march, he has 
yet to find a way to keep the differences from 
causing skirmishes and brawls, 

Because of the dangerous nature of the Gorgon's 
Crown and hearsay it is rarely possible to get exact 
counts on the size of the Gorgon's armies. The last 
confirmed report was made almost 20 years ago, 
but his troops were also mixed with those of his 
vassals, fouling a completely accurate account. At 
that time, the troops under the Gorgon consisted 
of 10 units of goblin infantry, five units of human 
aTchers, eight units of human infantry, six units of 
human light cavalry, three units of human heavy 
cavalry, six units of gnoll infantry, and five units of 
orog infantry. The state of his current army is 
unknown, though it is no doubt the largest and 
most powerful army in Anuire with the widest 
racial mix of malevolent beings. 

Regent: The Gorgon 

Lieutenants: Kiras Earthcore, titular 'Hand of the 
Gorgon,* is the subcommander of the Gorgon's mil 
itary forces. He also controls the production of 
weapons and armor for the troops. 

Tollan manages the money m the Gorgon s Crown 
and the income from the vassal states. Tollan also 
supervises the network of spies and assassins used 
by the Gorgon across Cerilia. Kiras and Tollan are 
detailed further in the "Lesser Awnsheghlien and 
other NPCs" section. 

The Gorgon's other lieutenants are the puppet rulers 
and important personages within Kiergard, Mur-Kilad 
and Markazor, These latter two are noted within the 
Ruins of Empire hook from the BntfHRiGKi Campaign 
boxed set 











Important NPCs: The Hand of Azrai is one of the 
most powerful and influential people within the 
Gorgon's Crown, and she is the only figure in power 
that is not blooded* She is a mysterious woman from 
the lands to the far east, and her reasons for arriving 
and staying in the Crown are unknown, Some spec 
ulate that she is in love with the Gorgon, though her 
reticence and the Gorgon s impassive glare tell of 
nothing that might pass between them. While she is 
unblooded, she is a high-level priestess to Azrai, 
Kriesha. and Relinik, and maintains their temples in 
states far better than most other buildings outside 
of Kal-Saftharak, 

The other most important NPCs are the chiefs 
and respective leaders of the Gorgon's armies, for 
they are a loose assembly of tribal factions held 
together only by Kiras' cruel discipline and the fear 
of retribution from the Gorgon. The gnolls are led 
by Courrak Lone Hunter, an old but powerful gnoli 
chieftain, The Goblin King Charqek Tallies unifies 
the goblins under his banner, and the humans and 
dwarves are immediately led by the awnshegh Kiras* 

Domain Description: The Gorgon rules the Gor 
gon's Crown, a huge expanse northeast of Anuire. 
Under his indirect rule are a few neighboring 
domains* The Crown is a mountainous wasteland 
filled with small volcanoes, barren terrain, and val 
leys and sheer cliffs rife with avalanches. At the cen 
ter of the Gorgon's land is a forest of pines that stay 
firmly rooted in the harsh soil in spite of the mild 
earthquakes that occasionally rock the region. 

At the center of the forest sits KaTSaitharak* the 
Gorgon's castle; this citadel Ls better known as Bat 
tle waite throughout Anutrean lands, The Gorgon 
commands and controls his hordes from this mam 
moth structure. Beneath Rattlewaite, dungeons 
extend deep into the heart of the earth: thus far, no 
one* save perhaps the Gorgon, knows the extent and 
the true awesome size of these earthen formations* 

The Gorgon's throne room is well adorned with 
weapons in easy reach of the throne. Among these 
are the Sword of the Anuirean Empire, a tighmaevril 
weapon once believed destroyed in battle with the 
Gorgon, a morning star known as Thunderclap, a 
spear called The Spear of Destiny, and his 
own great sword Li fender. 


Domain Capital.; 
KaTSaitharak 
Domain Cities: Abattoir, Mettle, 
Mutian s Point* Plumbago 
Domain Villages: Anathar. Chalybrate, 
Elfseves, Motile, Orogs Head, Pelt, Sage's 
Fen, Sere's Hold, Sideath, Sunder Falls, Zaptig 
Special Locations: Stone Gaze Mountains 

Trade Goods: Wood used for fuel and building sup 
plies is the Gorgon's greatest import* The Gorgon 
exports ores, metals, and weapons to his vassals, his 
only trading partners. 

Allies: The Gorgon doesn't invite allies, though he 
accepts vassals. There are several domains that he 
now controls (Kiergard, Markazor. Mur-Kilad), and 
their peoples are considered little more than slaves. 
Rumors talk of a pact among Raesene, the Raven, 
and the Magian to destroy all other regents in Cer- 
ilia, though few believe this rumor. 

Enemies: Any who are not slaves or underlings of 
the Gorgon are ranked among his enemies. 

Special Conditions: The Gorgon has ordered his 
mercenaries to kidnap miners and smelters to smelt 
the iron of the Crown into weapons. All the 
domains bordering the Gorgon's Crown have suf 
fered a number of blacksmith disappearances, and 
the Gorgon is most likely responsible for most, if 
not all, ol them. 





Witt 


'-£. 7 ?' **<*"- " < * 













the haqf 


W ell, my pretty . , . heh. Pretty, I used to 
be pretty, I used to be beautiful. Men 
from across CeriUa knew of my beauty, 
and sought mv favors. Heh, heh. Would they like 
my kisses now, do you think? 

"It s nice to have someone to talk to, I suppose, 
after all these years. Oh t yes, the men stopped com 
ing when I began to exert ray . , , abilities. It cost 
me, yes, it cost me everything I had, but look at 
what I have nowl My own land, my powers, and 
eternal life, That s rights I II live forever, forever! 


And you. pretty? Why, your warm skin is already 
starting to cool. 

"But don't worry pretty, you'll , . , be around a 


Little longer. Pretty-pretty, so beautiful, so arrogant, 
so foolish, Thought you could tempt power and not 
pay the price? No, there is a price for everything- 
everyone pays a price. My price for power was my 
looks, my loves, my men. What is your price, pretty- 
pretty? What did you have to give up? Was it worth 
it? Do you even know what you had to give up, what 
you lost? Do you seek to avenge yourself on those 
whoVe never paid a price for power? 

"Well, that's not my concern, pretty, Fve talked 
enough, and I'm . . , hungry. Oh. you don't shudder 
at that, you don't even move! Are you brave, pretty, 
or foolish? Well, you needn't worry ... I don't eat 
cold meat, pretty, and vour skin has grown quite 
cold indeed.'' 


The Hag has been an exiled ruler in her own 
domain for generations. Some Legends say that the 
Hag is actually just the current incarnation of a ter 
rible awnsheghlien bloodline. Whichever legend you 
believe, they all start with the story of a young 
Brecht woman of noble birth named Fulda Geissen. 

Fulda was a first cousin to the then-ruler of 
Grabentod, the regern Mordan Furgal, She was 
active at court, and those chronicles that still speak 
of her (mainly those from Drachenward) say that 
she was both beautiful and intelligent, if somewhat 
haughty 7 . 
























Growing 
up in the court of 
Grabentod, Fulda 
learned to use her 
looks and her 
intelligence to her 
advantage* She 
made many allies 
among the nobles, 
many of whom 
resented their regent, Mordan, because of his youth 
and untried valor* 

But Mordan was not blind. He saw Fulda's grow 
ing influence and he found a solution. There was a 
small, unsettled province to Grahen tad's east, 
claimed by both Grabentod and Drachenward, but 
neither pushed the matter. Peasants from both 
domains hunted and fished in the mountains, and 
shipwrights took lumber from the region* 

Mordan was eager to expand his holdings, but 
Drachenward was a strong neighbor with a friendly 
regent-and Kordan (as the region was called) was 
hardly worth a war. But Mordan saw a way to gain die 
area without a fight, , * and to solve another problem. 

He sent heralds to Erach of Drachenward and his 
son T Kurrd. He proposed a marriage between Fulda 
and Kurrel "as a bond between our two friendly 
realms." Mordan hinted that Kordan would be an 
excellent bride-price. and he would send two of his 
best ships as a dowry. 

Erach and Kurrei agreed, for Erach was old and 
ready to resign his regency and Kurrel was unmar 
ried* Fulda, apparently, was pleased with this solu 
tion as well. Even though she would he giving up 
influence in Grabentod. she would be a consort of a 
larger domain. She had no doubt she could work 
her wiles in this new land. 

So the marriage took place. Hie bride and groom 
took a honeymoon aboard ship, touring the coast 
lines of GrabenLod and Drachenward* They 
returned to Drachenward, apparently content . . * 
though not for tong. 

Mysteriously, Kurrel took ill and died* It hap 
pened so quickly that the court priests and physick- 
ers could do nothing* Rumors of foul play would 
come later, but the court of Drachenward was in 
shock. Erach, who had planned to abdicate in his 
son s favor, was heart-broken* His only other heir 
was his daughter* a mere six years old* He would 
have to rule for at least another decade before tak 
ing his well-deserved rest. But there was Fulda. 

Fulda was out of her grave-clothes, 



Drachenward tans say* 
almost before her husbands grave 
was filled. While that is undoubtedly 
inaccurate (both Drachenward and Grabentod 
had proscribed periods of mourning for their roy 
ally), there is no question that Fulda hardly grieved 
for her dead husband. Instead, she saw a tremen 
dous opportunity. 

In both domains, it was not uncommon for an aging 
ruler to appoint a guardian regent for a youthful heir 
That guardian would rule until the heir was old enough 
to assume the bloodline and rulership of the domain* 
and then the guardian would usually become a chief 
advisor. In most good or lawful kingdoms, this was an 
accepted practice. Had Fulda waited and bided her 
time, she might have won her suit for guardianship, 
But, judging wrongly that Erach was on the verge of 
death, she asked too soon. Proposing such things so 
quickly after her husband's death caused only hard 
feelings and even harder talk. The aged ruler chastised 
her for her rudeness and asked if she might he more 
happy in her home domain. Ashamed and enraged, 
Fulda made preparations to leave, 

Mordan was incensed at both Fulda and Erach* 
He was less wise than in later days, and instead of 
sending an appeal to Drachenward asking that 
Fulda be allowed to make amends, he sent a 
scathing reprisal filled with insults and accusations* 

Had Erach been younger, he would have 
answered the insult directly. Instead, he sent an 
army into Kordan to evict Grabentod s settlers and 
claim the province. This grew in responses until a 
border war erupted. At its end* Grabentod had the 
worst of it. hut Drachenward fared little better. 
Hatreds seethed on all sides, but neither could act 
without ruining both domains, 

Fulda* with the help of a few loyal retainers and 
some Drachenward nobles* kidnapped the heir 
and fled to Kordan. There, she planned to ren 
dezvous with her cousin's forces and bargain 
with her father-in-law for the area. Fulda \ 

wanted revenge on Erach and a return to a 
prominent position hack at Grabentod s 
court. / 


The move backfired. When he heard 
his cousin's boastful report, Mordan 
was horrified. A due! was his way 
of avenging insult-anti if not a 
duel, war was acceptable- 
kidnapping innocent 
children 



was not. He commanded 
Fulda to return Drachenward's heir 
unharmed and to present herself for punishment. 
He sent apologies to Erach* assuring him that he 
would do everything to get the child hack 
unharmed. 

When Fulda heard she was to return to court in 
disgrace* she panicked and fled with the child into 
the mountains. What happened to the young heir of 
Drachenward is unknown to this day Fulda herself 
escaped pursuit and hid herself away During this 
time, her heart twisted with paranoia and hatred 
and evil + she became the awnsbegh known as the 
Hag. 

Since that time, Dr&chenward and Grabentod 
have not seen peace. While no wars have been 
fought, skirmishes and disputes occur with regular 
frequency. Treaties have been signed over the years 
only to establish efforts to destroy the Hag. Distrust 
and old enmities have unfortunately always arisen 
to break the peace. 

The Hag herself enjoys goading the two sides 
against one another. She uses her powers to throw 
up nets in her mountains to trap the unwary' scouts 
and messengers, and her illusions assault both 
Drachenward and Grabentod, Occasionally she will 
capture folk from cither domain, and send them 
home mad with fear, sick with poison, and telling 
tales of horror and depravity. Any children that 
come into the Hag's clutches are never seen again. 


Intelligence: Genius (18) 
ACTTYtTY Cycle: Day 
Diet; Omnivore 
Alignment: Chaotic evil 



Movement: 9 
Size: L (10' long) 

Armor Class: -2 
Hrr Points; 90 
Saves As: W15 
f THACOr 5 (base) 

NO. of Attacks: 2 (weapons) or 6 
(clavv/claw/bite/bite/b it e/bite) 
Damage/Aitauk: By weapon type or 
ld6 (x2)/2d4 (x4) (+8 for strength on 

claw's) 

Special.Attacks: Poison, spells 
Special Defenses: Nit 







Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale: Champion (15) 

Blood: Minor (Azrai) 39 

Blood Abilities: Alertness (Minor), Animal Affin 
ity (Great), Blood form (Great), Enhanced Sense 

(Major), Fear (Major), Long Life (Great). Major 

Regeneration (Great), Regeneration (Great) 

XP Value: 25*000 

S: 20 (+3, +8) D: 19 (+3 r -4) C: 22 (*6) 

1:18 W: 12 Chill 

Spells Memorized: The Hag casts spells as a loth- 
level wizard. Memorized spells are: 

1st Level: Alarm, charm person, grease, magic mis 
sile, sleep , 

2nd Level: Darkness . 15 ' radius, ESP, flaming 
sphere , stinking cloud, web. 

3rd Level: Blink, dispel magic, hold person, light 
ning bolt* non-detection . 

4th Level: Charm monster, Evard's black tentacles. 
hallucinatory terrain , shadow monsters, wizard eye . 

5th Level; Cone of cold * hold monster, shadow door, 
summon shadow f transmute rock to mud (or its 
reverse)* 

6th Level: Programmed illusion, shades. 

7th Level: Shadow walk 

Realm Spells: The Hag can cast realm spells. The 
only spells she knows or can tap are Dispel Realm 
Magic t Scry , and Subversion. 

Once a beautiful woman, Fulda Geissen became a 
monster in a few short years. The blood of Azrai 
runs deep, and her heinous acts against the most 
innocent creatures awakened her bloodline's evil 
potential and exposed Fulda's inner evil In the ugli 
ness of the Hag, 

Because of the Hag's horrific appearance* all who 
see her must save versus petrification or flee in hor 
ror from her for 2d6 rounds. Hirelings and hench 
men must make morale checks immediately at a -4 
penal tv (even if they do save), This check or saving 
throw occurs only upon the first viewing of the Hag* 
not later confrontations. 

The Hag can wield weapons, often those taken 
from fallen foes. A report had her using a two- 
handed sword in one hand, while another said she 
wielded a long sword and dagger like a ranger. She 
always has at least a dagger. 

The Hag is not without her own natural weapons. 
Her lower body no longer has legs, but consists of a 
mass of very dangerous snakes. These can make up 
to four attacks per round (while the Hag 


uses her clawed hands or weapons) on one or more 
opponents A bite from these snakes does normal 
damage, but bitten characters must save vs, poison 
at -2 or fail into a deep, nightmare-ridden coma, A 
character sleeps for a number of hours equal to 24 
minus his Constitution score. At that time, a suc 
cessful system shock roll allows him to wake; 
unsuccessful rolls result in death. A survivor of the 
Hags poisons wakes up feeling tired and looking 
pale. For one week (unless a neutralize poison and a 
remove curse are used on him), he performs all 
actions at a -2 modifier from lack of energy and 
focus. Poisoned victims are usually taken back to 
Lhe Hag's lair and tormented until they die or are 
inexplicably Let go to wander back to known lands 
in a daze, to recover or die soon after. 

Realm Name; Kordan (The Hag's Domain) 
Location: South of Drachenward, East of Grahentod 
Star s: Not available for PC use 
Alignment: CE 

Provinces/Holdings: The Hag's domain is a single 
province. She has set up access to a Level 5 magical 
source in the domain, but its location is entirely 
unknown* There are no other holdings controlled by 
the Hag, since there is nothing in trade or law to 
control. 

Regency G enerated/Accumu lated: 6/18 RP 
Gold Generated: 0 GB/2 GB; 'The Hag gets gold 
from fools or adventurers who venture into her 
domain. As she spends none of it, it has accrued 
over the centuries to an impressive hoard, which is 
kept In many caches. 

Army: The Hag has no army in the conventional 
sense, though there are many serpents in the 
domain that respond to her will. She uses her magi* 
cal powers to entrap, bewilder, and charm adventur 
ers, and she may have servitors from the Shadow 
World, (hough it is uncertain how she maintains 
them in Cerilia, 


Regent; The Hag 
Lieutenants: Recent reports 
state that the Hag somehow managed 
to enslave a nobleman of Drachenward, 
named Orin Hawk, and his entourage, and 
they now guard the northern border of her 
domain, Orin is* or was, a ranger of some ability, 
and now he uses his skills in her service. There have 
been, and still are, others over the years who serve 
the Hag willingly or unwillingly 

Domain Description: The Hags domain is little 
more than forest-blanketed mountains. Several 
known hunters' camps or long-abandoned settle 
ments are shown on the map. Sometimes* they are 
used by brave folk who dare to venture into the 
Hag's domain; at other times, they are used by the 
Hag herself as temporary lairs* The Hag has many 
lairs in her domain, and she hides treasures 
throughout the province to tempt treasure-hunters 
into her clutches. Where her central lair lies is 
unknown; the Hag is wily and evil, and does not 
reveal secrets easily 












the harpy 

o few folk of the mainland have the courage 
to come out to the Harpy's inland, and seek- 
ing only knowledge rather than power-your 
bravery is greater indeed for that. Such boldness 
deserves reward, and your reward is the informa 
tion you seek and your lives. 

"Memories of our life before we came to rule this 
island are unclear, as we have little need to dwell on 
those days and that was also before our life truly 
began. Still, for your tome to provide a true and 
accurate account of ourselves and our reign, one 
must push aside the fog of the past anti look upon it 
again, 

"We were not always the Harpy-in fact, we were 
once two separate beings. Part of us was the queen 
of the ha rpies and much of us was an acknowledged 
worker of magic and music. Khaharah Hahban, our 
mortal self, learned her magics in the form of music 
and song, and she sang her spells to life beautifully. 
Her only trouble in life was keeping in check a dark 
blood taint her great-grandfather left to his off 
spring, and she ted an upstanding Life of goodness 
rV to counter its corrupt nature, 
j! ?¦ 'She adventured along the Zikalan coast of the 
Bafr el-Mehare with a number of comrades, seek 
ing to gain fame and strike down injustice. She 
sang of the mighty warrior Garik Olafssen when 
our other self first met her* The wanderers were 
- set upon by a group of harpies and their mates, 
the warbirds. fed by ourself, their queen. They 
r fought bravely, both the heroes and the harpies, 
and we claimed lives on both sides. Still, the 
x f heroes were outnumbered and weary, and victory 
fell to the harpy queen. 

"Only Khaharah and one other^-a wounded fel 
low close to death-still lived and she faced the 
harpy queen alone. Her only thought was 
(light, and she began a song to change 
her shape to a bird's to escape, The 
harpy queen was armed with a 
sword that she received 
from a gray man in 
her dreams the 
night before. 



She struck as the magician's form began to shift 
toward falcon form. Whether it was some property 
of the sword, the disruption of the song spell, or 
perhaps the woman's blood taint, we know not, but 
the magic went awry and both Khaharah and the 
harpy queen converged into us, the regal being you 
see before you as the Harpy 

H Since that time, we have lived as one on the 
Harpy's island, fully in command of our magic and 
the flocks of harpies and warbirds that populate 
these isles. We lead our fellow harpies and warbirds 
on minor raids against nearby lands and passing 
ships, seeking plunder that is rightfully ours bv 
force of arms and wings. We do not lead our flocks 
wantonly or without purpose-everything we do is 
for the good of the flock. 

"There are those that call us awnshegh t and we 
suppose there is merit in that title, but that is inac 
curate tn assessing who we are and why w r e rule. 
We are not defined bv such 'blood of darkness.* We 
continue to live our life in a true and honorable 
fashion, fulfilling our purpose with zeal. The blood 
taint of Azrai may mark us* but it does not rule us. 
Make sure we have made ourself clear on that* 
chroniclers. We. the Harpv T are not held to lies. 
Believe that." 

Khaharah Habban* as stated in the interview, was 
united mysteriously with one of the harpies from 
the Island off the coast of Binsada during an attack 
over a century ago. History recorded her use of 
songs in spells* and spell failure was rare for 
Khabarah. A sage versed in the knowledge of gods 
old and new (especially Azrai, Beiinik. and 
Kriesha), believes the song was tampered with by 
one of Azrai s successors to achieve some greater 
end. That end is still merely conjecture* but the 
inhabitants of the Isle of the Harpy are now more 
controlled and organized than they ever have been. 
Luckily for mainlanders, some of Khaharah s moral 
ity remains in the Harpy. Raids on Binsada or 
Zikala are rare, and passing ships are raided only 
slightly more frequently. However, when the Harpy 
and her forces strike, their precision and deadlines* 
are devastating. 

The mysterious short sword wielded by the 
harp>- queen was dropped and forgotten 
in the initial pain and 




agony of her merging with Khabarah. Soon after, 
the vrarbirds collected their wounded queen, now' 
an amalgam of the lovely half-el ven bard and the 
harpy, and flew off with much of the fallen heroes' 
treasure. The only survivor was the wounded 
priest of Avani, [man Tenek, and he healed his 
w-ounds and recovered the sword after the harpies 
had fled. 

After surviving and returning to Andujar* I man 
discovered through research that the mysterious 
dull gray short sword was once called The 
Heamword and it was wielded by an ancient assas 
sin known to have been banished to the Shadow 
World. The sword's original enchantments, which 
still seem to be in place, allowed a wielder to 
assume the form and shape of a person or creature 
kilted by the sword. Few humans even know of this 
sword s existence, though it is well-known among 
the halfUngs, who shudder at its mention, The 
sword was recently stolen from the son of Jinan and 
its whereabouts are unknown. 


Intelligence: 16 
Activity Cycle: Day 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 9. FI IS (C) 

Size: M (6 f tall) 

Armor Class: 4 
Hit Points: 62 
Saves As: Ml2 
THACO: 14 
No, of Attacks: 3 

DAMAGE/AnACK; Id4/ld4/ld4 {daw/cl aw/d agger) 
Special Attacks; Songs (see below) 

Special Defenses: Songs (see below) 

Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale: 16 

BLOOD: Tainted (Azrai) 18 

Blood Abilities: Enhanced Senses (Minor), Long 
Life (Minor), Major Resistance-Charm (Major) 
XP Value: 10,000 




T* 





































Pro vi nces/H oldings: 

The Isle of the Harpy and surround 
ing islands are considered her domain, though it 
is hardly a controlled realm. The islands are popu 
lated only by harpies, war birds, and a few other 
indigenous wild creatures. 

Law: Aside from the pattern of food gathering 
and a few organized raids, there is no law within this 
domain. 

Temples: There are no temples or any organized 
religion on these islands. 

Guilds: 

111 ere is little 
trade and com 
merce with the 
Islands of the 
Harpy, aside 
from what the 
birds bring 
back from 
raids, and 
money from a 
trader in Binsada who buys a rare herb that grows 
only on the Harpy's main island. This small amount 
of money is held by the Harpy. 

Sources: The Harpy controls the magical sources 
of the islands, though she cannot establish ley lines 
between islands and tap all their power from her 
main home island* On the main isle, she can tap a 
Level 4 source. 


Regency Gener^d/Accumulm^j 5/10 RP 
Gold GENERAJ^/AccuMuiJerED: 1/2 GB 


Army: The Harpy doesn't have a standing army by 
any means* She does, however, have dose to 1.000 
bird and harpy followers that live on the island 
chain. All the males, about 200 in strength, help 
guard the island from attack as well as reinforce a 
raiding party. 

Harpies (200) Int 5-7; AL CE; AC 7: HD 7; lip 
42; THAC0 13; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6 or 
ld3/ld3/weapon; SA charm touch, singing; SD nil; 
Save F7; SZ M (6' tall); MV 6. FI 15 (G); ML 13- 
14; XP 1,400/ea, 

War Bird (200) Int 3-5; AL NE; AC 7; HD 5; hp 
28; THAC0 15; #AT3; Dmg Id6/ld6/2d6; SA diving 
attack (2xDamage); SD nil; Save F5; SZ M (6 r tall); 
MV 3, FI 48 (D): ML 13; XP 420/ea. 


Songs 

IstJevel: Comprehend languages, featherfall t 
gaze reflection . hypnotize, spider climb. 

2nd-Ievel: Alter self darkness 15 J radius, ray of enfee* 
btemem. strength * whispering wind. 

3rd4evd: Blink, fly. haste, hold person, wraithfom. 
4th-Ievel: Polymorph other , polymorph self, solid fog, 
Stoneskin, wizard eye. 

5th-level: Avoidance t fabricate* stone shape , teleport, 
transmute rock to mud (rev). 

6th-!evd: Death fag, disintegrate, move earth. 

What remains of Khabarab Habban in her new 
amalgamated form is her intellect and her basic beau* 
tiful shape* though she now has wings, blue hair, and 
the claws of a harpy* She also retains her ability to 
sing spells, though she cannot sing a spell and attack 
with her claws or dagger simultaneously. When she 
casts a spell song, it has the same initiative modifier 
as the spell when cast normally, and all have the same 
effect as though cast by a I2th4e%'el spellcaster. 

Realm 

NAME: Isle of the Harpy 
Local ION : South of Binsada 
Status; Not available for PC use 
Augnmeni: Lawful evil 


40 








Regent: The Harpy 
Lieutenants? None 
Important NPCs: None 

Domain Description: The domain of the Harpy 
consists of a cluster of eight islands off the southern 
coast of Binsada. The main island is long and thin 
with a large bay on the northern shores; the second 
largest island lies to the southeast. To the northeast 
are the remaining islands, Five of these are uninhab 
ited while the largest of these northern six is popu 
lated bv a few small clutches ol independent birds 
and other animals. 

The interiors of these islands are mostly plains, 
but the coastlines are often high cliffs with only a 
few beaches on which to land. The interior of the 
largest island sports several rocky crags that house 
the birds and their leader, the Harpy. The Harpy's 
domicile is on the highest peak at the center at the 
island. The aerie ! the harpy and bird equivalent of a 
town) and the Harpy s domain capital is called 
Winged butte. Here, the birds living on the island 
and its neighboring two tiny islets pay homage (with 
spoils taken from their victims) to their leader. 

Many of the place names used to mark certain 
locations are simply old references from a map of 
the islands made years ago by a sage and traveler: 
the Harpy simply uses these same place names as 
familiar location names for various aeries and 
dutches of warbirds and harpies under her rule. 

Domain Capital: Wingedhutte 
Domain Towns: The Alp, Salt Crag 
Domain Villages: Aerocnurt, The Boroughs, Drift- 
wood, Flit Hill, Windsail 

Trade Goods: The fishing in the Bay of Aerocourt 
is controlled by the Harpy. She allows Binsadan 
fishermen to fbh these fertile waters tor a small 
(5%) portion of the take. The fish are distributed to 
all the birds and harpies living on the large island. 

Allies: While a number of rulers believe there to be 
some official alliance among Binsada. Zikala, and the 
Harpy, their only ties are in information. The island 
serves no real polideal purpose in the greaLer 
scheme of diplomacy of the countries 
along the Suidemiere, but 
Bmsada and Zikala 


use the island and its 
inhabitants as a source of 
sailing information. Whenever 
ships pass within 30 miles of the island, 
the Harpy's servants inspect the ship's ban 
ners, cargo, passengers, and crew, and relay all this 
information to the Harpy. She, in turn, gives this 
information to the leaders of Binsada and Zikala in 
exchange for news from the mainland. Rumors talk 
of a loose agreement between the Harpy and Zikala 
that would have the Harpy and a token force of war- 
birds act as mercenary forces if the Sphinx should 
attack Zikala: few believe this rumor, though the 
Harpy is one of a few wizards who might be able to 
slow down the Sphinx, 



Special Conditions: The Harpy while very lucid 
and in contra!, has adopted a number of paranoid 
tendencies unconsciously. She has broken and 
destroyed all her musical instruments, and little sur- 
vives of her original equipment except her song- 
books of spells. The spelibooks and about 30% of 
her total treasure are stored at her main home in 
Wingedhutte, while the rest of her 
treasures are kept in caves all 
about the islands, guarded 
by servant harpies 
and warbirds. 






mu':' 


;* -jUtr 


hydra 


O ur team of sages, eager to discern infor 
mation firsthand about the deadly Har- 
rowmarsh and its awnshegfa inhabitant, 
had secured passage on a barge that traveled the 
Asarwe River, aod the barge captain gave them the 
tallowing testimony before delivering them to the 
outer edge of Harrowmarsb. 

Ok, friend-you asked and I'll tell you what 1 
know of the Hydra and its home. Many a fugitive 
from Binsadan justice hides out within the twisted, 
dark trees of that swamp, and that alone makes it 
dangerous enough to traverse. Add to those small 
outposts of renegades a huge variety of crea 
tures-the hydra's hideous offspring-that fiv t 
hop, and slither throughout the Harrowmarsh that 
arc not as powerful as a normal awnshegh hut are 
still dangerous. Lastly, you've got the Hydra iLself 
to worry about. Some say that the Hydra's got 
eight heads, and all of 'em are of different races; 
whenever the Hydra eats some noble folk with the 
blood right of ruiership, they hecomc part of it and 
it gains some of their power. If tales are true, it's 
defeated and consumed at least se% r en or eight 
blooded folks in the past thousand years. All 1 
know is that no money is enough to make me enter 
that swamp and meet it!* 

Sages theorized about the Hydra's existence and 
power and appearance for centuries, and lew had any 
proof to back up their theories unlit now. Careful 
study ol all travelers' accounts of the Harrowmarsh 
and its monstrous inhabitants (there are over a dozen 
texts that mention legends and tales of the Hydra and 
the swamp it lives in) led to these conclusions: 

The Hydra is, in truth, a monstrous reptilian crea 
ture with multiple heads and a voracious appetite. 

It was once a large crocodile that was infected with 
the taint of Azrai at some point after the fall at 
Deismaar, It grew to larger proportions and con 
sumed nearly everything it encountered, Each time 
it consumed a blooded scion who came to slay it r 
that scion s head sprouted out of its gargantuan 
body now linked with the Hydra's brain. 

The various blooded heroes 



42 




























who fell victim to 
y% the Hydra and arc 
now evident as part 
l of the creature s col 
lection of heads arc: 
Astrid, a famous 
¦f and mighty- wizardess 
and ps ionic ist from 
Mliden who special 
ized in telepathic 
skills and necroman 
tic spellcraft; 

Garik Blackhand. a w-arrior (some say a paladin!} 
of incalculable bravery who was dedicated to the 
service of Andutras; 

Charboth Ruhrfoot, a male halfling of Abu ire 
who bore the title of the Quickfoot, whose head 
now screams incessantly, and whose birthright 
granted the Hydra its speed today: 

Bhaervas Whyrven III, the human grandson of 
the ehrshegh called ihe Golden Unicorn and a 
priest of Haetyn in 
his own right; 

Illyram, a power 
ful elf warrior and 
alleged son of 
Rhuobhe 

Manslayer himself, 
who may have kept 
more of his original 
mind than any 
other victim in the 
Hydra; 

An unknown 
male human w f ith 
gold eyes; and 
An equally unknown female half-elf whose head 
cries pitifully and continuously 

Intelligence: 8 
Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Chaotic neutral 
Movement: 16 
Size: L ( 2 V laU) 

Armor Class: 2 
Hit Points; 113 
Saves As: FI 8 
THACO: 12 
No. of Attacks: 4 or 6 
Damage/Attac K: t d4 /1 d4/2d 8/2 d 10 
{bite/bite/bi te/tail) 

Special Attacks: Grapple 
Special Defenses; Nil 




Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale; 18 

Blood: Minor (Azrai} 47 
BLOOD Abilities: Detect Life (Major), Fear 

(Major), Invulnerability (Great), Long Life 

(Great), Unreadable Thoughts (Minor) 

XP Value: 18.000 

Finding the Hydra 
is almost as diffi 
cult as surviving a 
meeting with it. It 
has absorbed 
some intelligence 
and cunning from 
its own prey, and 
it uses the swamp 
to avoid being 
seen until it can 
get an easy attack 
on its foes. 

The Hydra's primary' attacks are bites from its 
collection of heads on one prey LTsually, only two 
smaller heads (with the faces of heroes that died 
fighting the Hydra) and the large, central crocodile 
head can bite one target and the Hydra lashes its 
tail at another. If the Hydra foregoes any bite 
attacks in one round, k can attempt to grapple a foe 
with ks stunted but strong limbs: with a successful 
hit, the Hydra holds a foe with 18/00 Strength and 
then can hold onto that foe so up to five heads can 
bite it automatically in the next round. 

When in combat, all the Hydra's heads make 
noise, some of them even using their original Ian- 
gtiages. Attempts to communicate with any but the 
central crocodile head will be met with an attack by 
adjacent heads. 



Domain Description: While not a domain, the 
Hydra's swampy habitat is large enough that some 
one could conquer it and claim it as a domain; few, 
however, wish to fight for a swamp infested with 
insects, criminals, and awnsheghlien. Originally 
named Sodden Falls by Binsadan cartogra 
phers, this area has simply reverted to 
"The Hydra s Domain" or its widely 
used name ofHarrawmarsh. k con 
sists of water-logged land with 
hundreds of small islands of 
solid, damp earth. The 
salty sea water mixes 
with the fresh 






















watershed in the south 
ern half of the domain, creating an 
unusual ecological system . Tall trees with wide, 
bell-shaped tmnb that feed off the saltwater silt donv 
inate the southern half of the domain, while a highly 
fragrant tree similar to eucalyptus struggles for pre 
cious fresh water rooting soil. 

The rest of the world views Harrowmarsh as a wet* 
swampy insect-infested area that has no attraction 
other than that it confines the Hvdra and a number 
of fugitive criminals* Rumors of the Hydras beastly 
habits and die wild, feral creatures that populate the 
lands keep outsiders irom invading Harrowmarsh. 
Some of these rumors about the Hydra are started by 
those in Harrowmarsh to keep people out, 

file people of Harrowmarsh are all fugitives from 
the justice of other outlying domains. Life in the 
swamp is tranquil* simply because there are hardtv any 
sizable collections of people to breed trouble. Among 
human settlers within the swamp, no one has ever laid 
eyes on the Hydra itself, and some of the inhabitants 
now believe it is nothing more than a concocted fable. 
Others who have encountered some of the hydrakin 
monstrosities that infest the central and southern 
parts of Harrowmarsh are less swift m writing off the 
Hydra as only a nightmare to scare children. 

The Hydra, however, keeps to itself in an old. 
abandoned watch tower called WaterQord Tower* in 
the fjords near the gulf. No one who lives in Har 
rowmarsh has the backbone to pay the awns he gh a 
visit. Anyone who visits the tower will most likely 
find it empty Soon after, he will be ambushed bv 
the cver-hungry Hydra-its ability to sense the loca^ 
tion of prey does not allow folk to approach its lair 
safely unless it's asleep. 


OiHiiR Denizens of Harrowmarsh: Harrowmarsh 
supports all the standard wildlife of a swamp, from 
crocodiles and frogs to insects. In addition, the 
Hydra and its offspring infest the swamp; the 
caracdir are now a viable species that breeds true, 
and the creatures known as hydrakin cover nearly 
every part of the swamp in various frequencies. 

The Hydrakin: Scattered all over the swamp, the 
Hydra s young--the hydrakin-glean what food they 
can from fish, crawfish, ground-nesting birds, and 
unwary hunters or fishermen. The hydrakin are not 
a species, but simply random results of the Hydra's 
asexual reproduction: what it eats is sometimes 
reproduced as a composite with traits of the Hydra 
and other prey. Whenever prey is eaten* there is a 
2% chance per hit point that it will be disgorged in 
ld8 days as hydrakin. 


44 










As the Hydra is a very old awmhegh. there have 
been hundreds or even thousands of different 
hvdrakin. Types recorded by sages included a 
human head with crocodile jaws on tarantula legs, a 
tiny human torso on a dragonfly and a water snake 
with a female's torso, eyes, and hair. No one can 
predict what bizarre blooded creatures might he 
found within Harrowniarsh. 

Hydra kin : Int l-10; AL CN: AC 5-9; HD ldG; hp 
8+4/HD: THACO 21-HD: #AT ld4: Dmg ld4 
(bite). 1 d8/ld8 (claws); SA poison in claws or 
mouth: SD immune to poison and disease: B Minor 
(Az): BA Bloodform, Death Touch ; Save F10: SZ S- 
M (3-6 tall); MV 948; ML 3-12; XP35-175/ea, 


The Caracdir: Soon after the Hvdra was invested 
with Azmi's power, it was possessed of a hunger that 
drove it to eat many crocodiles and salamanders as 
well as a few humans living in the swamp. Among the 
first hydra kin, these creatures were a blend of croc 
odile. human, and salamander that bred true and 
are now a race known as the araedir. These 
'lizard men" live in primitive tribal camps 
throughout the swamp, and 
they avoid 



humans and the Hydra* 
Caracdir scavenge Hydra 
attack sites for any armor or 
weapons they can find. 

Caracdir (3-30; total of 900 within swamp): 

Int 10-12; AL N; AC 5; HD 3+3; THACO 18; #AT 
3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld8 (claw/claw/bite): 

SA poison bite; SD immune to poison and disease; 
B Minor (Az); BA Death Touch : Save F3; SZ M {5' 
tall); MV 9, Sw 12; ML 12; XP 65/ea. 

Domain Villages: Althlone Island, Blackwater 
Sound, Chalky Inlet, Drogheda Bay Dundalk* 
Gweebarra, Laoghaire Point, Longfjord, Nenagh 
Birr, Tory. Westport, Youghal Harbor. 

Trade Goods; Harrowmarsh natives export exotic 
pets like birds, lizards, and other unusual animals to 
the rich of surrounding countries or traders from 
ships that stop at the marsh ports on the Gulf of 
Coeranys. 

An alchemist who lives in Westport, Dwynaa the 
Bose, collects virulent poisons secreted by frogs 
found in the swamp* He sells the ceramic vials of poi 
son to the highest bidder. They are highly effective 
and fast acting poisons: a saving throw vs, poison at a 
-4 penalty Is required to survive such a poison. 






t 








45 




























kraken 


I f you want to hear about mv 'near-death expe 
rience 1 with the Kraken, you're cinching up 
the wrong brace-hook, lad There aren't 'near- 
death' brushes with it-there's only death and 
there s life. All you'll hear about the Kraken is from 
sailors who saw an attack from afar. 

"The Kraken was swimmin' the waters of Kraken- 
nauricht and the Black Ice Bay before there was 
ships, 1 heard once it was one a those monsters 
from the wreckage of Ddsmaar. Maybe. But, then 
again, maybe not. Maybe the Kraken's been here 
longer* 

"They say there's natives on the Krakenstaur who 
worship the Kraken as a god. I don't know' about 
that, since IVe never been there. Tales I hear about 
ships sunk by the Kraken all say it happened within 
a few miles o' that island's shore. Sailors steer dear 
o' those waters and hug the Zwdlunds tight when 
they go north, 

*Mv experience with the Kraken? Well, we were 
making the switch around the Zweilunds and going 
south, not north, when the lookout starts scream* 
ing. Not 'land ho!' or 'ship ahoy'--no. he just starts 
screaming! 

T get sent up to calm him down, but halfway to 
the nest, 1 see what he's screamin about. Don't ask 
me to describe it. *cuz 1 can't* It was wrapped 
around some poor ship that looked like a toy splin* 
taring in the beast's grasp. Little figures-I guess 
they were men-'were Falling into the sea, and a 
moment later, everything wenl beneath the weaves. 
Everything was gone. 

"When vve made landfall, I heard Toddens Pride 
had been sent out of Grahentod to look for pirates 
in the Krakennauricht. No other ships were in the 
area at that time, and the Pride, with her 
armored sides and hold full of weapons and 
marines, never made port again/' 

The Kraken is not a typical 
awnshegh-it is tar 
larger than any 


landbound 

awnshegh, 



confirmed origin. It haunts the Kraken nauricht. the 
former 'Great Bay/ and attacks ships that come too 
close to its island. Why the Kraken chose the hay as 
its territory, none can say. 

The oldest theory about the Kraken involves 
Azrai in the years before the battle at Dcismaar. 
They say he came to Cerilia bv water with cor 
rupted, monstrous sea creatures, and one of these 
creatures was the Kraken. With the passing of 
Azrai, the Kraken moved its territory- north into the 
bay, where it remains today. 

Recently certain Brecht priests have begun to 
preach another, less dogmatic idea that the Kraken 
is from another plane entirely-perhaps the Ele 
mental Plane of Water They think the Kraken is 
some sort of monster brought to this world by the 
cataclysm at Mount Deismaar, They also say it is 
bound here by a blood tie to Azrai until its purpose 
on this plane is fulfilled. 

Intelligence: Genius (19) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Carnivore 
Movement: Sw 9, Jet 24 
Alignment: Chaotic evil 
Size: G (MG' long) 

Armor Class: 0 (tentacle) / *5 (body) 

Hit Points: 220 
Saves as: F24 
THACO: 2 (base) 

No. of Attacks: 9 

DamAGE/Ajtack: Idl0+10(x2)/2d8(x6)/10d4 
Special Attacks: Constriction, ink cloud 
Special Defenses: See below 
Magic Resistance: 30% 

Morale: Fearless (20) 

Blood: Major (Azrai) 47 

Blood Abilities: Death Touch (Major), Long Life 
(Great), Major Regeneration (Great), 
Regeneration (Great) 

XP Value: 29,000 

The largest monster in Cerilia, the Kraken acts like 
nothing more than an animal, though some say it 
has exceptional intelligence. 

Two of the beast's tentacles are barbed, and it 
uses them to latch onto the sides of 
ships, whales or giant squid 


46 


when 
it hunts, These 
tentacles do IdlO+lQ points of 
damage per hit, and can be used with all the 
creature's other attacks. The smaller tentacles are 
used for constricting and crushing targets; Six can 
be used each round, though only two can attack a 
single man-sized creature, A character hit by a 
smaller tentacle takes 2d8 points of damage and 
must save versus paralyzation or be wrapped up, 
immobilized in the tentacle (automatic damage 
each round) until the Kraken lets go or someone 
severs it with 20 points of damage (the larger tenta 
cles take 30 points before severing). All tentacles 
are AC *5 because of their extreme toughness. 

The Kraken s bite is used only on a ship itself or 
on food; its beak does 10d4 points of damage to 
anything it bites. 

Unlike other kraken. the Kraken does not retreat 
once it attacks a vessel. The creature heals quickly, 
so it can lose a few tentacles or even an eye, to gain 
a goal. Should the Kraken wish to retreat, however, 
it shoots a jet of black ink 80 feet high and 120 feet 
long toward its opponents. The ink is poisonous- 
this is the Kraken's death touch , as described under 
M Blood Abilities" in this book-but dissipates in 2*5 
rounds, while the Kraken uses its jets to flee. 

Some say the Kraken devours the crews of ships 
and hauls the shattered vessels to a cavern beneath 
the Krakenstaur. No wreckage or survivors are ever 
found after a Kraken attack, but its treasure hoard 
must be monstrous, if this theoiy is to be believed. 

DOMAIN Description: The Krakennauricht is a 
large bay in a cool climate. While it never com* 
pletely freezes over, icebergs and white-caps are not 
unusual sights throughout much of the year. 

The Krakenstaur is a smalt island with two tall 
peaks. Some years, only the mountains themselves 
are above the water. Contrary to popular belief, 
expeditions have reached the island and returned 
unharmed, There were reports in the past of men, 
or some humanoids, dwelling on the island and wor 
shiping the Kraken as some deity Evidence of sacri 
fices had been found on the island, though no one 
was ever able to question the natives. 

About 170 years ago, a Brecht explorer named 
Monk von Luftar swore to find the secret of the 
Kraken, Morak landed on Krakenstaur four times 
in two years, and on his fourth trip, he was deter 
mined to question a native. When Morak searched 
the island, he couldn't find one humanoid-they 
had all disappeared. 







































the lamia 


I am insulted that you must journey this far to 
compel me to answer your questions* I 
thought my accomplishments would have pre 
ceded me- 1 guess the destitute, the witless, and the 
illiterate would not know me, for how could they? 
My intellect, my beauty, and my magnificence far 
exceed the paltry awarenesses of the plebeian, 

4 Five centuries ago, my parents were bom poor in 
eastern Mhoried, and they spent their lives selling 
trinkets, small totems, and fetishes to survive* They 
made the items in their tenement above the store, 
but they told the customers that the items were 
authentic , ancient items of jewelry. This scheme 
continued until my fifteenth year when they made 
the mistake oi inviting a customer for an carlv- 
evening dinner. When he saw the workshop, he told 
other customers. In their rage, they broke in and 
stole everything of value. My parents tried to stop 
them, but one of the men rewarded my father and 
mother both with a kniie in their stomachs. They 
burned my home and my parents' bodies, and I was 
left a destitute urchin, destined for a hard life in the 
streets. At that moment, l vowed vengeance, 

"Later that year, after locating all the murderers, I 
sol out late one night and took a torch to the homes 
of the people responsible for my parents' horrid 
deaths. Only one person escaped from those fires. 
He was badly burned, but 1 remembered his face 
well: He was the one who put the knife into my 
father's belly and struck down my mother. I made 
sure I returned the favor that night. 

"I joined a traveling carnival and spent my time as 
a vulgar side show attraction. Many believed that J 
was as vulgar as my act, but I sought to improve my 
lot. Every coin that job gave me was spent on learn 
ing. An old magician taught me to read, write, man- 
j age money, and wield a dagger, 

the carnival a few years later after a quick- 
scheme soured and the authorities tried to 
imprison us all for swindling a hunch of 
greedy fools. We ended up as criminals with 
a two thousand gold piece bounty on our 
heads. Loren, my paramour, and I 
left Mhoried and headed east 
through the Iron Peaks. 
'Shortly alter we left the 
mountains, we came 
across the scene 





of a great battle 

Cadavers littered the ground and the 
stench of blood attracted carrion feeders. Loren 
and I searched the bodies for any coin they would 
no longer need, hut I found a corpse that still lived, 
though barely so, Jn his delirium, he attacked me 
and almost buried his blade in me, I fought and 
killed him with my dagger. 

As the last breath left his mouth. T felt an incred 
ible charge of energy fly from him and invade my 
mouth and nostrils. His blood burned my skin and 
the energy washed over me, sending horrible sensa 
tions all through my body. I think T passed out, but I 
awakened later, cared for by Loren. As we kept 
moving across the Khinasi lands, heading east, I 
began to notice changes in mv body. I was becoming 
swifter than Loren by far, and my feet had become 
padded like lion's feet, 

"When we were later beset by a trio of gnoils, a 
rage in me fueled my savage counterattack. During 
the battle, my leathers stretched and burst as my 
lower body became that of a mighty lioness. With mv 
new daws, l shredded two of the gnoils as Loren 
claimed the third. After the battle, I saw that I main 
tained my beautiful cell only from the waist up. 
Loren, horrified by the changes, fled from me, and J 
have not seen the boy in more than five hundred 
years* 

T accepted my fate and kept moving onward* I 
finally came to BesaVam, a principality south of 
Cwmb Bheinn. Seeking naught hut solitude. I 
settled in an isolated forest, hut my troubles were 
not quite over. When the ruler discovered my exis 
tence, his sentinels arrested me and took me to him. 
He wished to prove his power to his courtiers, and 
challenged me-"a mortal divinely maimed by the 
evil blood of Azrai!'-to battle. As I am here with 
you, l was obviously triumphant, I absorbed more 
strange energy from the foolish king's death, hut 
this was diflercnt-I felt now that 1 belonged here* 
The land was a part of me* and with his death, I slid 
neatly into the vacant throne* The name of the 
country soon changed to mv newlv received alias: 
The Lamia. I've ruled my domain for o% F er five hun 
dred years and none can say that I have not done 
well. 1 * 

The Lamia once was a proud and beautiful 
human woman named Keta Pechaya. an exotic 
dancer who used her wiles and beauty to rob male 
customers charmed by her sensuality. Kela s greed 
and lust for power grew stronger with each suitor; 
soon she was under suspicion of fraud, along 
with her accomplice, Loran. They fled 


. .. 







east, encountering a dying man on a field of battle 
whose blood taint was transferred to his mur 
derer-Keta. Her abilities quickly manifested, and 
she later slew the last ruler of BesaTam, absorbing 
his birthright and regency, claiming the land itself 
as her prize. She now uses her domain to fund 
vainglorious monuments and trappings of her rule, 
for no one is more important to the Lamia than 
herself. 

Intelligence: 14 
Activity Cycle: Day 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 24 
Size: M (4W tall T long) 

Armor Class: 3 
Hit Points: 63 
Saves As; F9 
THACO: 11 

No. of Attacks: 1 or 2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 (hand talons) or bv weapon; 

ld4 (x2) (front foot claws) 

Special Attacks: Charm gaze, Wisdom drain 
Special Defenses: NO 
Magic Resistance: 30% 

Morale: 14 

Blood: Minor (Azrai) 38 

Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Great), Charm Aura 
(Great), Divine Aura (Major), Long Life (Great). 
Persuasion (Major), 

XP Value: 8,000 

When the Lamia is first encountered, all male view 
ers must roll a saving throw vs. spells (females auto 
matically save). If successful the victim is horrified 
by the Lamia s appearance: the victim is charmed as 
per the spell if the save fails. While charmed, victims 
have total devotion to the Lamia and see her as a 
perfect woman, and they will protect her from ene 
mies to the best of their abilities. 

The Lamia can use her charm ability with a glance 
whenever she chooses, To reinforce this ability, the 
Lamia s touch permanently drains Wisdom from a 
victim with each touch; when a victim's Wisdom 
drops below 6 that person obeys the 
Lamia's orders Indefinitely and 
never sees her as 



49 




























V s (c) 






-A.- ,f 


anything other than a 
beautiful mistress. This is how 
she keeps her lieutenants under 
her control 

The only limitation to the Lamia's 
immediate powers is her inability to charm 
women; while her other blood abilities can 
affect females in her presence, those abilities are 
not nearly as reliable as her enthralling powers. In 
fact, the Lamia can't abide the sight of another 
pretty woman within her castle at Cravengate, as it 
reminds her of her lost human beauty. 

The Lamia s left hand is slightly different from 
her right-her left fingernails have become black 
talons that extend when she is angry. like a cat's 
daws. Stronger than bronze, the Lamia's hand 
talons can score a metal shield and can certainly 
shred weaker armor, dealing 1-6 points of damage 
to her target. 












Province Law 

Bmessin (3/4> U (3) 
Coromandel f 1/6) La(l) 
Cravengate (3/4) La 43) 
Kanicra {1/6) La (I) 

Motere (2/5) La (2) 

North Marten (2/5) La (2) 
South Marten (2/5) La (2) 


Temples Guilds Sources. 
Med (2) Bes (3) Das (4) 
Med (I) Bes {1) Das (6) 
Grd (3) Das (3) 
Med (I) Bes (1) Das (3) 
Med (2) Bes (2) - 

Med (I) Grd (3) Das (4) 
Med (2) Grd (21 - 


Abbreviations: La=Laima; Med=Medecian Way of Avaiti 
(Incas Narvadae): Bes^Besaim Guild (a group of local 






Realm Name: Besaiam (The Lamia's Domain ) 
Location: South of Cwmb Bheinn 
STATUS: Not available for PC use 
Alignment: Chaotic evil 

Pro v i nces/Hqldtngs : The majority of the hold 
ings within the domain fall under the control of the 
Lamia, as her charmed puppets are in positions of 
power and control. While she takes a direct inter 
est in trade with the Gradny Coster of Kozlovnyy. 
she leaves much of the other governing to her 
underlings. 


traders): Da.s=Dashid the Astronomer; Grd=Gradnv Coster 
of Kozlovnyy. 


Regency Generated/Accu>iulathd: 36/60 RP 
Gold Generated/Accumuiated: 24/12 GB 

ARMY: The Lamia's army consists of hundreds of 
charmed and fanatic warriors. led by her chief lieu- 
tenant, the gigantic Vos warrior Pyotr Borochevsky 
However, most enthralled forces are used strictly in 
the defense of Cravengate. Most invasion forces of 
the Lamia are mercenary troops from the Iron 
Hand Tribes. 








* Bheinn 

\ - • gr*i O 1 

Xs/Zfi&jjron Band Tribes 


Kozlovnyy 41 / 


r ? BIriessin 

Coromandel 


7 Motere 


^ ^ Kaniera 

forth Marten x ^ ^ / 

South Marten 4 4 3 


South 


MindusaL 

cfH.} 


50 #$? 

"a? 


A 












Regent: The Lamia 

Lieutenants: The most important lieutenant is a 
Vos warrior. Pyotr Boroehevsky. who senses as the 
captain of her personal guard. A withered old Khi- 
nasi man named jamal ekNumir acts as the Lamia s 
majordomo and 'watches over the day-to-day busi 
ness of the government. The Lamia also has the 
wizard and stargazer Dashid the Astronomer ready 
to use his potent arsenal of spells as she commands. 

Domain Description: Settled 600 years ago by 
Khinasi pioneers from Medeci, BesaTam soon felt 
under the control of the Lamia. The Lamia's 
domain consists of deep, twisted forests and rugged 
mountains. The eastern quarter opens to hilly pas 
ture that is often roamed by bands of the Iron Hand 
Tribes. The two adjoining domains do not fight over 
this land; it absolutely belongs to the Lamia, but its 
use allows the Iron Hand tribes access to attack the 
frontier of Rhuannach freely-and the Lamia likes 
Rhuannach to stay busy and away from her domain 
borders. 

The Lamia is more concerned with personal 
wealth and power than with the kingdom she rules. 
Her taxes are ruinous, and she often resorts to 
extortion and terrorism in her quest for money to 
create her latest personal vanities, whether they are 
public buildings or murals of her or new trappings 
of unimaginable expense. 

The common people of BesaTam have known the 
Lamia only by way of rumors and stories. The 
t-fearmed nobles and leaders insist that the rumors 
are lies and that nothing's wrong* At least the Lamia 
doesn't ravage the countryside, and this is a major 
factor in the people s willingness to live under her 
rule. 

Domain Capital: Cravengate 
Domain CmE5; Mot ere, North Marlon 
Domain Villages: Coromandel, Kaniera, Rua- 
puke, South Marion 

TRADE Goods: The Lamia exports lumber to a fcw T 
of the Iron Hand Tribes, but she's competing with 
Mtn Dhousai and Cwmb Bheinn and losing heavily, 
She also sells the pow dered horns of a near-extinct 
breed of deer to alchemists and speJIcasters, who 
use the powder for divination potions and spells. 
This breed of deer was once found throughout the 
forest, but she sent hunters into nearby domains 
to exterminate their numbers in order 


to make them rare and 
under her control. Also exported is 
iron ore and gold from the hills south of 
North Marten. The domain imports grain, weap 
ons, and mining equipment. 

Allies: The Lamia maintains a close alliance with 
the Iron Hand Tribes, allowing them free access to 
her eastern highlands as long as her citizens are not 
plundered. This access assures continued raids 
from the Iron Hand against Rhuannach. While 
Rhuannach forces are busy fending off the plunder 
ing Iron Hand Tribes, they're not harassing the 
Lamia's lands. 

The Lamia has a mysterious ally in the Raven. 
They have met regularly over the past few years, 
and a rumor the two are romantically involved has 
crept up in the Raven's Domain. The two have a 
vocal nonaggression pact and share a common 
hatred of Cwmb Bheinn, It's believed they will soon 
move against the country that separates the two 
with the desire to divide the land between them. 

Special Conditions; In the forest of the domain, 
there is a clearing with a low hill. From that hill 
grow shards of crystal and metal. None know why, 
hut they are highly magical, and they are tightly 
guarded by tribes of brownies and centaurs. 



51 





















the leviathan 



L ike other entries, there was no way to inter 
view the Leviathan, as it has not been seen 
in almost a century and it b most likely 
incapable of communication. There are also few 
recorded survivors of Leviathan attacks. Mikhail 

Kaninskiy, former 
Vos captain of the 
Brecht ship 
Unquenchable 
Pride, heard our 
plight and offered 
this interview. The 
meeting took place 
in the Imperial City 
of Anuire* where he 
lives out liis 
remaining years. 


"Twere near seventy years ago. I was master of the 
trading vessel, and Td agreed to take a load of spices 
from Khinasi to GrevesmiihL We were hugging the 
shore since there'd been reports of pirate activity' in 
the area. Winter uz drawing near, and the ices were 
forming over the northern waters, 

( "I thought we could make it through the 
Leviathans Reach before the ice froze that oven too, 
but no such luck. We were stuck in the middle of the 
Reach in one of the coldest winters in remembered 
history, We knew' the Leviathan was rumored to be 
active after its last 80-year sleep, but we'd heard that 
before and weren't really expecting to see much. 

"When the ice froze us in, I sent some of the 
swabbies to walk south and see how far the ice 
/ sheet extended, I suppose their steps must've hit 
a particularly echoing patch of ice, 'cause they 
s didn't make it more than 50 yards more. 

A great spray of ice and freezing water 
erupted front below em. sending most 
pi" 'em flying. We never saw the bodies 
of a couple sailors; figured it meant 
that the Leviathan*d taken 'em 
right away. Those who'd been 
knocked around Jay on the 
ic£ in all directions, scat* 
tejfed bv the blow. 
Even as we 



readied a party to go 

out and get 'em, the Leviathan 

started picking 'em off one by one. Anything 

that cast a shadow through the ice was fair game, 

and I lost a quarter of my crew out on that shattered 

ice, The only good that came of the whole episode 

uz that the Leviathan had shattered enough of the 

ice that we were able to get ourselves out of that 

Nesirie-forsaken place, 

'*Unfortunately, it wasn't far enough. We traveled 
near 40 miles back east through the slush-filled 
waters, tmng to steer clear of the Leviathan. While 
the ship was at anchor for the night, we heard the 
sound of ice creaking back to the west; like a fool, 1 
assumed that it was just the booming of ice forming. 
1 found out different about ten minutes later, 

*T was hurled from my bunk and landed in a 
rapidly growing pool of water. It seems the ship'd 
been bitten in half, and wc were sinking to a watery 1 
grave. I managed to squirm through a porthole, and 
1 struck out for shore. I knew I wouldn't last for long 
in the icy water, and it was only through pure luck 
that I managed to reach an ice floe that was close to 
a stable ice sheet. It was even more luck that the 
Leviathan didn't take me, II certainly got most of 
my friends, E heard their screams through the night, 

"After making my way through the wilds of Vosgaard 
and the Hag's domain, I finally made it to Grevesmuhl, 
'Course, they didn't 
believe my story 7 any 
more than I would've, 
but I was still insulted 
when they suggested it 
was my incompetence 
that lost the ship. 

'I never got a clear 
look at the monster. 

All I saw was a tail 
that*d put a whale to 
shame-though it 
DID look like a 
whale's tail-a pair of mighty flukes, and teeth that 
were longer than 1 am tall, shining like metal under 
the winter sky, 

i still have nightmares about the Leviathan, Even 
though it was seventy years ago, the thought of that 
thing keeps me awake nights, They say that you 
can't get the call of the sea from your blood; Pm liv 
ing proof that you can, I haven't set foot on even the 
smallest boat since that day," 

There is no actual depiction of the Leviathan in 
any records. All accounts recall the flashing teeth 
and the mighty flukes, but some call it a large 
whale and others a gigantic serpent. 






Perhaps it is a strange mix between the two. 

The history of the creature is unclear as well. By all 
reports, it was one of the few awnsheghlien that 
began its career as a monster, mutating further as the 
blood of Azrai twisted it. Ancient Masetian records 
found near the Khmasi lands tell of a creature that 
bedeviled their ships as they sailed off to fight the War 
of Shadow: this may well be that beast. 

Whatever the case, the monster has become less 
intelligent over the passage of centuries. Once able 
to demand tribute from ships in the Reach, the past 
five hundred years have seen it degenerate into 
simple savagery. Now it attacks anything that sails, 
swims, or flies nearby, 

Intelligence Semi- (4) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Neutral (evil) 

Movement Sw 36 

Size: G (200+ long) 

Armor Class: -2 
Hit Points: 150 
Saves As: F20 
THACO: 1 

No. of Attacks: 1 or 2 

Damage/Attack: 3dl0 (bite) or 2dl0(x2) (flukes) 
Special Attacks: Swallow, tail smash 
Special Defenses: Nil 
Magic Resistance: 30% 

Morale: Champion (16) 

Blood: True (Azrai) 85 

Blood Abilities: Long Life (Great), Regeneration 
(Great) 

XP Value: 22,000 

The Leviathan attacks with a powerful bite from its 
shining metalic teeth, which are able to pierce armor 
and crush, mighty ships with a single motion of its 
jaws. The Leviathan also strikes with its flukes to 
drive waves over the vessel, usually swamping ships 
that managed to stay afloat after its first strike. The 
flukes are also excellent far scattering bodies, long 
boats, or killer whale pods to the four winds. 

If there is a particularly troublesome vessel or 
opponent, the Leviathan attempts to destroy 
it with a pass of its great tail. One 
smash of the tail causes 4-40 



damage, and 
raises a wave 
over 20' high, Any 
one who can weather 
these two is truly a 
sailor of some ability'. 

The Leviathan can swallow elephant-sized prey 
whole. If it rolls a natural 16 or better on its attack, 
the victim is swallowed alive. Those so ingested take 
Jd8 points of damage per turn while inside the great 
bellv of the beast. The Leviathan takes only J4 dam 
age from any weapon inside t and only weapons of 
size M or smaller can he wielded in the belly of the 
beast. If a victim inflicts over 20 points of damage, 
the Leviathan spits its last 24 hours of prey back 
into the sea, leaving them behind. 


Notes: The Leviathan swims alone in the Leviathan's 
Reach, It's unknown exactly how the Leviathan 
chooses its victims. Are they simply those who sail 
near, or do certain types of travelers draw its ire more 
than others? As the interview shows, the Leviathan 
pursues its prey doggedly attacking until either its 
hunger is sated or that which offends it is gone. 
Though all the animals of the reach allow' the 
Leviathan swimming room, great white sharks fol 
low behind it, as da killer whales, hoping to feed off 
food left behind by the Leviathan, 

Some say that the Leviathan has a huge treasure 
trove under the waves. Anyone brave enough to ven 
ture into the reach can find shattered ships decorating 
the ocean floor. Some are treasure or trading galleons, 
while others are simply pleasure ships or something 
equally useless. All told, the combined treasure of 
these hulks is well over 100 GB, 

The Leviathan is known to hibernate frequently^ 
has not been seen for over eighty' years, and it 
is '-veil known tiiat the creature lies dor 
mant for decades at a time. 

Unfortunately when it 
awakens, it does so 
with a ravenous 
hunger that Isn't 
easily slaked, 






maalvar 
the minolaur 


1 


I hardly know why I T m talking to you. I don't 
know why I haven't ripped you limb from limb 
yet. f suppose you should feel honored I've 
granted your request for an audience, I know not why 
you should or why I did. That's just the wav things are. 

The way things are. IVe heard that often enough. 
It's a major tenet of Itave philosophy; They're a small 
people, easily frightened, and they use that philoso 
phy 1 to explain why they re grubbing around in a dirty 
little Land while those around them have castles and 
cities and finery. I think they're pathetic, but they've 
survived. There are a lot more who haven't, 

+ *Not loo maudlin for you, am I? Not that I care, 
but if I thought you weren't listening, I might just 
grab you by the ears and shake some sense into 
you. Heard that, didn't you? I should hope so, 
f suppose 1 rule die Itave in your limited way of 
understanding Life and society. They live in mv Maze 
and they do what I say. They don't do anything stupid 
like tty to kill me or take what's mine. If that's ruler- 
ship. I guess I have it. 1 haven t seen any of 'my 
people' In weeks, and IVe hardly noticed. 

"Vede? No, he's not arx Itave. He's a . . # no, You 
warn to know about Vedc, you ask him. You said 
you wanted to know about me, 

"Where did I come from? What am I doing here? 
My plansf Well, I came from somewhere else, a long, 
long time ago, My plans are my own-I keep to 
myself and I expect others to do me the same cour 
tesy, Anyone who doesn't finds that I can defend my 
territory better than he might suspect,, , , 

'"What's ray true name? What was I before? Tins 
interview is at an end + Get out." 

There are few awnsbegh more cryptic than the 
Minotaur, In all the years of his existence, few 
scholar s have found out more than a liny part 
oi his history. In recent years, bards and 
loremasters have linked the Mino 
taur by name with a legendary 



adventurer named 
Maalvar Not all 
historians (this 
sage 
included) 



F 


believe this is a true link, but the theory hinges on it. 

Maalvar was an adventurer-a blooded merce 
nary' in the pay of any regent or general who would 
have him, To his credit, no chronicle tells of Maal 
var ever lighting on the side of evil, and there are 
several tales in his history' that tell of his heroics on 
the side of good. Still, Maalvar may have been cast 
in such a light because he was almost always on the 
victor's side of any fight. Victory ensures that his 
tory and battle-songs will report events as the vie- 
tors wish them to be viewed. 

Early m his career Maalvar was recognized as a 
gifted leader and, some say a military genius. He 
%vas respected by his employers and enemies alike. 
He lought well, and with honor, despite which side 
of the battle he fought on. But Maah f ar grew bored 
with the military Too often he went to war for trivi 
alities and saw good men die for no purpose. Maal 
var decided to strike out on his own. 

Some say this is when Maalvar first felt the pull of 
his Azmi bloodline. Maalvar r s victories became more 
and more costly and vicious. Due to his reputation, 
Maalvar often fought forces three to four times the 
size of his army, and his battles were all hard-fought. 
Some say Azrai was trying to corrupt him and force 
him to butcher, rather than kill honorably 

Maalvar gave up his considerable influence and 
power to become a nameless adventurer, and he dis 
appeared for a time. Mention of a masterful warrior- 
lor-hire, who always gained victory for himself and 
his friends, popped up across Cerilia every so often. 

The last mention of Maalvar in the histories of 
Cerilia comes from a 300-year-old Khinasi tale. He 
went into the desert after his companions were all 
brutally murdered by the Sandpiper, an awnshegh of 
ample power in the Tarvan Wastes. The tale makes 
no mention of success or failure, but the Sandpiper's 
remains were found later, surrounded by blasted 
ground and shattered trees-but no sign of Maalvar. 

A few years later t a power rose in the Maze, dri 
ving out those Khourane forces who secured it and 
leaving only the Itave, an ancient race of native Geni 
talis,The Itave and the Minotaur are the only inhabi 
tants to this day. The Minotaur has been seen on the 
edges of the Maze many times. Sometimes he is 
attended by a few Itave, but more often, he is alone. 

The power now known as the Minotaur wa_s once a 
large, hirsute human whose torso is now mounted on a 


54 


I 



_ 


-_ £ _ 


-- 


- 


















































¦ 


bulls lower body, and a large pair of 
curling horns glowing with carved runes sprouts 
from the sides of his head. The Minotaur's link to 
Maalvar is dear, however: Maalvar wore an ancient 
suit of blackened scale mail similar to that worn bv 
Prince Raesene millennia ago-some believe it may 
even be the actual suit!-and the Minotaur wears the 
chest armor on his human torso when patrolling his 
boundaries. These circumstances lead to curious ques 
tions. b the Minotaur actually Maalvar, the hero of the 
south, or did the awnshegh slay Maalvar centuries agp? 
Why did Maalvar have this particular suit of armor? Is 
there a connection between the Gorgon and the Mino 
taur? These questions can only he answered by the 
Minotaur, and he is not willing to talk much. 

Intelligence: 16 
Activity Cycle: Day 
Diet: Omnivore 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic neutral 
Movement: IB 
Size: L (10' long and 8' tall) 

Armor Class: 0 (base) 

Hit Points: 352 
Saves As* FIS 
THACO: 3 (base) 

No, of Attacks: 2 (weapons or fists) 

D amagl/Attac k : By weapons or 2d8 (+12 Strength 
bonus for both) 

Special Attacks: Trample 
Special Defenses: Nondetection 
Magic Resistance: 50% 

Morale; Fearless (20) 

BLOOD: Minor (Azrai) 36 

Blood Abilities: Alertness (Minor). Battle wise 
(Major), Detect Illusion (Minor), Enhanced Sense 
(Major), Iron Will (Minor), Long Life (Great). 
Major Resistance-Magic (Major), Resistance 
(Great) XP Value; 22,000 


S: 24 (+6, + 12) D: 18 (+2, +2, -4) C: 23 (+6) 

I: 16 W: 15 (+1) Ch: 16 (+4. +5) 


Iff 

mm) 




The Minotaur looks more like a bull-centaur 
than a classical minotaur. His bull-body is 
jrnuscular and remarkably agile, while his 
ruddy, powerful human torso is devel 
oped in proportion to his size and 
weight. The horns that pro 
trude from his head are 
more ram-like than 
bull-like; they 
are carved 






A 




with glowing runes that 

protect the Minotaur just like an 

amulet of proof against defection and location, but 

the real nature of the runes is unknownu 

The Minotaur retains the fighting skills and 
knowledge of battle he learned while still human, 
and he has shown on several occasions that he is 
more than willing to defend his isolated domain 
from all intruders, whether they are good or evil. 

The Minotaur's trample attack is a frightening 
show of savagery- and strength. Maalvar can trample 
an opponent standing, sitting* or lying on open 
ground with a normal attack roll. If he hits, he does 
2-16 points of damage from the weight of the 
impact, The victim must save versus paralyzation to 
roll out of the way Otherwise, he takes an added 4- 
40 points of damage from the trampling hooves, and 
the victim is stunned during the next round. 

In battle, Maalvar will try to use strategy and his 
instincts to overcome any opponent, Maalvar grew up 
fighting and winning against forces and opponents 
many times his own size, Now, with his blood abilities 
and his awnshegh form, he is nearly unstoppable. 

The only "advantage" a would-be opponent has 
over the Minotaur is his berserker fury. When in 
battle t Maalvar will sometimes, for no apparent rea 
son, go mad with bloodlust (1-5 on Xd2Q after any 
damage taken). He will attack and try to kill anyone 
within reach. During these rages, Maalvar will not 
use any blood abilities he has to concentrate on, but 
simply his hands or weapons. When enraged, he 
gains 50 temporary hit points and a +3 bonus to his 
damage bonuses* but he cannot plan* retreat, or 
yield. If reduced to zero hit points in this state* 
Maalvar merely falls unconscious-it takes another 
twenty hit points to kill him. 

The Minotaur can come out of these rages as easily 
as he enters them. Once every turn, the gamemaster 
should roll a d20. On a five or less, Maalvar returns to 
normal. Otherwise, he keeps raging. 

As powerful an opponent as Maalvar Is, however, 
he would rather avoid contact with other people- 
especially the Itave* whom he protects from out 
siders lest he fall inexplicably into a berserker rage 
and attack them without reason or honor. 

Realm Name: 

The Maze of Maalvar the Minotaur 
Location: South of the Magians Domain 
Status: Not available for PC use 
Alignment- Chaotic neutral 

Pro viNc es/HdldiNGS : Held is the only permanent 
habitation In the Labyrinth, where 


Maalvar lives. The other provinces are merely tem 
porary seasonal dwellings of the Itave. 

Vede maintains one-point temple holdings in 
el-Saroume, Itave, and Beid provinces. Maalvar 
himself holds all sources within d-Saroume (1/3), 
Ras Nabul (0/3), Itave (1/2), Cape Aswfr (0/4). and 
Beid (1/5), 

Regency Generated/Accemulated: 20/10 RP 
Gold Generated: 1 GB/3 GB; The Itave "sacrifice" 
gold and animals to the Minotaur While the Min 
otaur has no use for the gold, he keeps it in his 
fortress with other treasures. 

Army: The Itat'e are mainly warrior barbarians and 
rangers. The Minotaur keeps no obvious standing 
army, but there are rumors that Maalvar trains 
selected Itave champions to serve him from time to 
time and sends them back among their people to 
teach the ways of warfare. Anyone who invades the 
Maze of Maalvar and gets through the Labyrinth 
and its dangers may find a few unpleasant surprises 
waiting among the Itave, 

Regent: Maalvar the Minotaur 

Lieutenants: The Itave are led by chieftains and 
elders in the tribal unit. Sometimes, the Minotaur 
will summon champions from different tribes to the 
Labyrinth and command them to perform some ser 
vice for him. At any time, there could be two to 
twenty of these Itave rangers or warriors {usually 
with the barbarian kit) in attendance somewhere in 
the Labyrinth, The only permanent lieutenant is a 
druid of unknown origin named Vede, whom the 
Minotaur often uses as a go-between when he wants 
to talk to the itave or trespassers in hts domain. 

Domain Description: The Maze was constructed 
before men came to Cerilia by forces or peoples 
unknown to present daymen, elves, or dwanes. There 
are some who say halfiings made it, but most scoff at 
such a suggestion. The Labyrinth is a darksome maze 
of blank stone. In the center is Bei'd, where the 
Minotaur has his residence. The Minotaur has 
been using his own skill at masonry, and 
the strong backs of the have, to 
add to the 





Labyrinth for years now. Some say the Minotaur now 
worries about invasion by the Magian or other forces, 
but most believe it is a safeguard against his own irra 
tional impulses to protect the Itave. 

The Labyrinth is so convoluted and extensive that 
even exhaustive mapping and spells are unlikely to 
proride an accurate picture. Some magic is embedded 
in the stone, too strong for anyone to dispel Only the 
Minotaur (when calm), Vede, and a few Itave can nav 
igate the labyrinth without becoming lost for days. 

Finally, the Labyrinth and the Minotaur's domain 
outside the Labyrinth are home to fearsome and 
unusual creatures. Animals and monsters that appear 
nowhere else on the continent exist inside its walls. 
Some hypothesize that portals to the 
Shadow World also exist within 
the Labyrinth, explaining 
some of its odd, magi 
cal effects and 
monsters. 


1 

- t fo 









the maoian 


T oo much chaos. Absolutely too much 
chaos. Caravans pay duty to a hundred 
border taxes and again to bandits, though 
the differences between them are scarcely noticed. 
The world is full of strife over this or that piece of 
territory, and all that does is remove the base from 
which taxes are acquired-the people. All this leads 
to one thing: commerce, the distribution and acqui 
sition of wealth, is affected. 

li this world is to prosper and see economic, tech 
nological, and magological growth, things must 
change. The land must become one with itself, and 
the peoples of all races and creeds must become uni 
fied. This land has very few leaders with the vision 
and tenacity to achieve this. Only one \Tsionarv in the 
past might have reached this goal: Rode, He was 
Cerilias great leader, but his vision was undermined 
from within by his owtl corrupt, chaotic brother. 

If tbb lack of order and law continues, the land 
will iall into another dark age. Another visionary is 
needed to pull the lands together into one unified 
body and mind, and this leader is needed at any price. 

I am that visionary The price is my tainted blood and 
my body's decline with my rising power. While I am 
fed by this power of chaos in my blood, it rules me 
not-T rule it* unlike these awnsheghlten who seem 
only fit to provide sport for noble hunters. 

Since my arrival in the lands 1 now inhabit there 
has been no rebellion. The people are fed and 
happy, and only one tax is paid by any one individ 
ual or business. I've constructed an unstoppable 
army with an ingenious battle plan to crush any 
incursions into our lands, This same force is 
designed to unite the world under one leader* and 
that leader is called Magian. 

1 plan to unite the land under one banner, 
with one law, one court, one allied people* 
one coin and one tax. In this world* no 
longer will merchants he forced to 
pay border fees at realm 
boundaries or grease the 
palms of crooked 
constables, and 


no longer 
will their 


- 




58 











































customers be charged these extra fees. The price of 
goods will drop and the overall wealth of even' citi 
zen on the land will increase, as will the quality of 
life. And they shall gratefully thank me, their liege 
lord that brought them together into this new 
Golden Age for the continent, the Magian," 

The Magian's origins are obscure, and his name 
was unheard of in Cerilia until six years ago, The 
Magian was a spellcaster from across the Sea of 
Dragons, and he landed on the shores of Pipryel 
(that which is now known simply as the Magian's 
Domain) with his band of loyal followers. The 
Magian quickly dispatched the domain s leader and 
his family* With the birthright powers absorbed 
from the rulers and his own sorcery, the Magian 
proclaimed himself sovereign with little difficulty. 
His tyranny, since his emergence as a ruler, is leg 
endary outside his own domain; within the domain, 
he Is revered. He and the followers crush whole 
armies with magical and military might, 

Once the Magian empowered himself as ruler of 
this domain* he completely changed the way the 
country treated its citizens. Despite his ruthless 
ness during the coup, he s apparently been a just 
and fair monarch. Quality of life has increased* and 
people live more comfortably than ever. Prosperity 
has its price-the country has gone to war more 
times in the last 6 years than In the previous 60 
years. Tacticians believe his sights are set to the 
west and north, and if his army proves as potent as 
it has in the past, the Magian will crush Min Dhou- 
sai and Khourane in short order. He denies that he 
has any plans to annex these two domains. 

The Magian's exact appearance is unknown to his 
people, as he cloaks his Form in magical darkness 
whenever he appears. Few inside the realm know 
exactly what he looks like* and that is all part of the 
plan* The figure most see and understand to be "the 
Magian" is a figurehead placed there by the true ruler 
to draw attention (and any potential assassins). The 
puppet is the Magian's protege, Ahazarus. and he is a 
mage of some power and blood ability, though not 
nearly enough to challenge his master. 

The Magian is a powerful being, but he has not 
been alive for nearly 200 years, Sheer willpower and 
magic sustained it for much of that time. Now, he 
is immortal, as the blood of Azrai removed the 
frailties of his undead state* 


INTELLIGENCE: 22 
Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: None 

Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 6 
Size: M (6V tali) 

Armor Class: 0 
Hit Points: 160 
Saves As: W20 
THACO: 9 
No, of Attacks: I 

Dam Ac f/Aitack: By weapon or death touch 
Special Attacks: Blood abilities, spells 
Special Defenses: Spell immunities 
Magic Resistance: 25% 

Morale: 19 

Blood: Minor (Azrai) 44 

Blood Abilities: Death Touch (Great), Divine 
Aura (Major), Fear (Great), Invulnerability 
(Great), Major Resistance-Magic. Nonmagteal 
Attack (Great), Wither Touch (Great) 

XP Value? 27,000 


S: 12 D; 18 (+2,+2,-4} Cr 17 

1:22 W: 18 Ob; 15 

As a 2Gih-!evel spellcaster, the Magian regularly 
memorizes the following spells: 

1st Level: Burning bauds, hypnotism, shield, 
spook, wall of fog . 

2nd Level: Alter self. ESP, hypnotic pattern, scare, 
summon swarm. 


3rd Level: Blink, clairatidtencc, clairvoyance r fire 
ball phantom steed. 


4th Level; Confusion, enervation, ice stdfm, phan 
tasmal killer, polymorph other 
5th Level: Animal growth, animate dead, cone of 
cold, domination, feeble mind. 

6th Level: Chai>j lightning T disintegrate, eytfbiie, 
veil 


7th Level: Control uttdead, mass invisibility, pris 
matic spray , 

Stli Level: Mass charm , maze, sink. 

9th Level: Imprisonment, blood line corrupt 
dan (see p. 65). 

Realms AH. 


The Magian's divine aura and /i?ar 


times. Anything of 
less than 7 





Hit Dice or levels that comes 



within 50 feet of him must save vs. spell or 
flee in terror for 5d4 rounds; the Magian cannot 
deactivate this power* If he touches a living being, 
he automatically invokes his death touch . but the 
miker touch is under his control. 

The Magian is totally immune to all charm, sleep, 
enfeeblemem. polymorph , cold t fire, or death spells, or 
any spells that affect living tissue or the mind. Also, 
the Magian is immune to the turning effects of cler 
ics and paladins. 


Realm Name: The Magtan's Realm 
Location: Esenshal Peninsula 
Status: Not available for PC use 
Alignment: Lawful evil 


PkOVTNCES/HOLDLNGS: 

-:-?- 

Province Law Temples 

Aktarsk (3/3) Mg (3) Bnk (3) 
Boloshy (2/5) Mg (1) EtS (1) 
Donskoy (3/6) Mg (3) Bnk (3) 
Kivegov (3/5) Mg (3) Bnk (2) 
Melekes (2/6) Mg (2) EtS(l) 
Pipryet (2/3) Mg (2) Bnk (3) 
Ry'Peski (2/7) Mg (2) EtS (2) 


Guilds Sources 
DrC (3) Mg (3) 
MCS(l) Mg (4) 
DrC (2) Mg (4) 
- Mg (5) 

MCS(l) Mg (5) 
DrC (2) Mg (3) 
MCS(l) Mg (6) 


Abbreviations: Mg=the magian; DrC= Huseti Trosane 
(Dragonsea Coster): BnK=AlmigKty Temple of Bdinik 
(Gabrend Sonlrene): EtS=Chureh qf the Eternal Seas 
(Cedriane Alghasne); MCS = Sarand Fasir (Merchant 
Consortium of Suiriene). 

-- 

Regency Generati^/Accumulated: 48/25 RP 
Gold Gr nerated/Accumulaied: 30/IQ GB 


Army: The Magian is a 

shrewd individual He has gathered 

together a very potent army. Totalling over 12 

units* his army is divided into three distinct groups. 

The Riders, a group of 12 undead warriors and 
wizards are the Magian s generals and oversee all 
aspects of his rule throughout his domain, The Rid 
ers came across the Sea of Dragons with the 
Magian, so their true identities and aspects are 
unknown. They wear burnished armor painted in 
cryptic runes, and helmets cover their faces, though 
sharp-eyed individuals can spot pale white bone and 
red, glowing eyes behind the visors. 

They coordinate closely with the Magian himself 
whenever they're out in the field. Most likely 
responsible for the sheer brilliance in the Magtan's 
armies' tactics, the Riders are usually found in the 
forefront of any attack formation. The Riders collec 
tively are considered one unit of infantry* 

The Riders (12) Jnt 17-18; AL LE; AC 1; HD 10; 
hp 90 (at 0 hit points, a rider is dispelled for 2d4 
days unless holy word is cast as it reaches 0 hit 
points); 

IHAC0 H: #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (+6) (broad sword); 
SA fear (5' radius), defect invisibility, detect magic at 
will, dispel magic and fear twice/d ay, 12 HD fireball 
once/day: 5D cannot be turned except by holy vpord, 
power over undead as evil P6; Save FI0; SZ M {?' 



60 












tall}: MV 12: ML 19; MR 75% (10 or less on dlOO 
roll reflects spell back at caster): XP 8.G0G/ea, 

The Battle Division is the backbone of the Magian's 
army- Two units are on horseback and considered 
medium cavalry; there is one unit each of lightly- 
armored archers and scouts: and three units of stan 
dard infantry round out the group. They are strong 
and well trained, and quickly gaining a name for 
themselves. Simply called the Magian's Battle Divi 
sion, they are well known throughout nearby lands. 

Battle Division: Int 10-12; AL LN or LE; AC 5-8; 
HD 1; hp 6; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA 
Ranged weapons (ld6); Save PI; SZ M (6' tall); MV 
12 or 15; ML 14: XP 35/ea. 

The Construction Brigade is a group of five units 
of hard-working individuals who construct bridges, 
build siege weapons, and raise army defenses. They 
can build, destroy, or dig twice as fast as any other 
team throughout the land. In a fight, they are con 
sidered light infantry. 

Construction Brigade: Int 12-14; AL LN; AC 8; 
HD 1: hp 5; THACO 20; #AT i; Dmg ld4 (tools); 
Save FI; SZ M <6 taU): MV 9; ML 12; XP 15/ea. 

Regent: The Magian 

Lieutenants: Ahazams (MA\v/W10/Azl3/LE) is the 
figure most often seen ruling in Aktarsk. He is a 10th- 
level mage with some small blood abilities gained dur 
ing the culling of the old bloodline: as a result* he has a 
hloodmark that has altered his coloration to ashen 
hues. He knows who is in charge, hut he relishes the 
opportunity^ to be of service to his master* Only the 
Magian and the Riders know of this deceit: all others 
see Ahazams as the Magian* ignoring their true ruler 
as "that cloaked ad\isor," Important NPCs: The Rid 
ers are the other most powerful individuals in the 
realm. Three of them in particular could be considered 
the Magian's closest companions. Perdue the Shadow- 
borne. Bread the the Death knight, and Kevel the 
Lichlord are the leaders of the Riders and the Liaison 
between the Magian and the Riders whenever 
they're on a mission (via magical communication 
through their umuieta). 


Domain Description: 

The Magian's Domain rests 
on the eastern coast, bordering 
the Sea of Dragons. Once called 
Pipryet* this domain was conquered within a 
matter of months by the Magian and his forces 
(including the citizens of the Pipyet province who 
joined his ranks to fight for a better future). Since 
then, the Magian has entrenched himself in the cap 
ital city, and has earned the respect and love of the 
citizens, despite his merciless tactics in battle and 
"governmental restructuring/ 1 He will soon set his 
sights beyond his own borders. 

Domain Capital: Aktarsk 

Domain Cities: Melekes, Pipryet 

Domain Villages; Donskoy, Guryev, Kivegov, 

RyTeski 

Special Locations: Boloshoy Kavkaz* Essenshaal 
Penninsula* Sea of Dragons 

Trade Goods: The Magian's Domain exports fish 
and crustaceans to the interior domains of Rhuan- 
nach* interior Khourane. and the Lamia. The 
Magian imports ores from the Iron Peaks for forg 
ing into weapons for the Magian's army. 

Allies: Officially, the Magian has no allies. He 
views every leader and every blooded individual as a 
hindrance to his long-term plans of continental con 
quest. He knows, however, that publicizing his con 
tempt would unite the realms against him, so he 
keeps this personal view in check. Instead, the 
Magian has made peace pacts with nearby coun 
tries* including Mbasa, YenlnsJdy, and Rhuannaeh Lp 
particular. He feeds them ties about the two 
domains he wants to overthrow immediately (Mm 
Dhousai and Karusha) in order to justify his inten 
tions of amassing troops and constantly keeping his 
troops in battle-read in ess* 











manticore 

N o, I am sorry, learned ones. The Manticore 
is not one to be disturbed lightly. While we 
advisors and folk of knowledge understand 
the importance of proper historical records, 1 am 
afraid our liege deems them of little import to him. 
If you should need an account of the Manticore's 
arrival in our lands, then !, his faithful Y'urre, can 
accommodate you in that, 

"Soon after the Magian began his conquest of the 
Bsenshal Peninsula and the domain therein, news 
of the atrocities committed there spread. jusL- 
minded iolk for domains around were outraged and 
set out to stop this interloper. Qandar the Right* 
eous, a paladin of Avani and relation to the ruling 
bloodline of Pjafta, joined the many heroes seeking 
to stop the Magian. 

"Nothing was heard for months, though news 
often moves slowly through enemy lines, After a 
year, most folk assumed the heroes were either 
captured or dead* and that was correct, Of thirty 
crusading heroes that set out to stop the Magian, 
only seven returned home, scarred and broken. 
Nine of the thirty heroes had blooded abilities, 
and of these, only Qandar escaped after nearly a 
year of captivity. 

,l Qandar came north, avoiding his normal haunts, 
and arrived in our fair land four years ago a broken, 
tormented soul. He was a friend of my cousin, the 
crowned prince of this realm, and the royal family 
took him in. He told of unspeakable tortures and 
some strange magical ceremony forced upon him by 
the Magian itself; while he did not elaborate, he 
said that since that time, his demeanor had turned 
dark, his temper raged to break his control, and he 
could not use his paladin s abilities. Soon after his 
arrival, the entire royal family was found slaugh 
tered in its banquet hath victims of Qandar's rage. 
With the assumption ot their blooded abilities, 
Qandar's corruption was revealed; He was becom 
ing an awnshegh! He now had a massive tail and 
daws that ripped right through his own skin, and 
Qandar became known as the Manticore, 

'1, and all of us here, serve him out oi fear, 
though I must admit he tries to fight his 
now-corrupt nature. 


62 


























Rather than 
return to lands of his own 
people, he remains here, his power 
tied to the land where he will not bring harm upon 
his own family and comrades in Djafra. Would that 
he thought so kindly of our people/ 

Intelligence- 12 

Acnvmr Cycle: Any (night preferred) 

DteT: Omnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 9 
Size: L <s r tall) 

Armor Class: 5 (base), -2 (with armor) 

Hit Points: 120 
Saves As: F14 
THACG: 7 
No, of Attacks: 2 

Damage/Attack: 2d8/2dS or by weapon 
SPECIAL AiTACKS: Weapon specialization 
Special Defenses: Nil 
Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale: 16 

Blood: Minor (Azrai) 31 

Blood Abilities; Alertness (Minor), Bloodform 
(Great). Divine Wrath (Major), Regeneration 
(Minor), Travel-Azrai or Basaia (Great) 

XP Valve: 12,000 

S: 19 (+3,4-7) D: 16 ( 4 1, +1* -2) C:18(+4) 

I: 16 W: 14 Ch: 12 

Qandar's corruption into an awnshegh is happening 
slowly, but already he has sprouted a monstrous 
tail, and his finger bones burst through his skin and 
formed into daws His left arm is longer than his 
right, and his eyes are changing to be more catlike 
and reflect light. While his skin currently looks nor 
mal, it is as hard to the touch as chain mail, and 
grants him a natural armor class of 5; some predict 
that when the Manticore is wounded and heals, his 
skin will start to take on a more metallic look. 

Qandar was once a paladin of Avani, but all that 
remains of that noble figure is his armor and weap 
ons, and they are swiftly falling to disrepair. As the 
Manticore, he still retains his fighting skills, includ 
ing weapon specialization with his bastard sword, a 
vorpal blade +3. 

The Manticore can attack with both daws for 2d4 
points of damage with each claw attack, Qandar is 
still ashamed of his appearance, but if suitably 
enraged, he wall abandon use of weapons and slash 
at foes with his claws. 


bludgeon, inflicting ld4 points of damage and 
knocking foes over, if they fail a Dexterity check. 

Realm Name: The Manticore's Domain 
Location: North of the Raven 
STATUS: Not available for PC use 
Alignment: Neutral evil 

Pro vinces/Holdings: The Manticore's domain 
Contains four provinces: Arrowsmith, a province 
(2): Madrik and Morrins, two provinces (4); and a 
province (i) called Okati. Wlule Y'urre acts as the 
Manticore's servant, he truly controls many hold 
ings within the domain. 

Law: Y'urre "passes all military commands to the 
army from the Manticore himself/ thus controlling 
the law of the land. Local leaders are restless, and 
resistance has begun to form, though none can yet 
challenge the awnshegh. 

Temples: Temple holdings are controlled by local 
priests of Kriesha. Y'urre plans on goading the 
Manticore into destroying their main temple at 
Morrins, as religion gives people the hope and 
respite to Tesist the tyranny of their rule. 

Guilds: Y'urre's manipulation of trade with 
Velenoye, Melyy, and Zoloskava has given him the 
bulk of control over the domain guilds. He also has a 
rare spell-components trade with other awnsheghlien, 
particularly with the Magian and the White Witch, 

Sources: All magical sources are currently 
uncontrolled, though sharp eyes keep watch over 
them should anyone attempt to use the power 
against the Manticore, Many wizards capable of 
tapping that power have been methodically killed 
by Y'urre and the Manticore. 

-- ? -- 

Province law Temples Guilds Sources 

Arrowsmith (3/4) Y(I) TCV(l) YI - 

Madrik (4/1) Or (3) TCV (3) Or (3) - 

Morons [4/1) Y (3) TCV (3) Y(3) - 

Okati (3/5) - TCV (3) - - 

Abbreviations: Or-Order of the Moon (Darec Guinsky); 

Y'urre; TCV-One True Church of Vosgaard (Petrov 
Dlinskar). 


Regency Generated/Accumulated: 18/6 
(Y'urre) 

Gold Generated/ 

Accumulated; 10/4 GB (Y'urre); 6 
GB per turn go to the Manticore 








Army: Y'urre has a small army com 
pared to the size of the domain: many of its 
more honorable commanders and soldiers met 
death in attempts to rid the domain of the 
Manticore. Currently, there are three units of light 
infantry within the standing army* 

Vos Infantry (300): fnt 13-14; AL LG; AC 6: HD 
1-1; hp 6; FHACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; Save Pi; 
SZ M (6 f tall); MV 12; ML 12; XP 15/ea, 


Rf.gent: Turre (pronounced ee-OGR-ee; 
MYos/W7/Azl 4/NE) is the true domain ruler, 
though the rest of the world believes that the Manti 
core controls the land. Y'urre ts behind all the polit 
ical dealings, though he has everyone believing he is 
only a go-between or messenger. He's the man who 
taxes and builds armies, deals with foreign powers, 
and decides what laws govern the people. This 
closely guarded secret is only known to the Manti 
core, \ urre* and Y urre's wife N chei, He does not 
enjoy playing the cowardly sycophant, but it does 
afford him a way to ferret out rivals and keeps him 
safer than most rulers, "sitting on their thrones, 
making themselves targets." 

Y'urre, in fact, is responsible for the domain's cur 
rent situation. He eavesdropped on the prince s audi 
ence with his friend Qandar upon hts arrival, hoping 
to overhear something to use as blackmail. He discov 
ered the paladin s loss of faith, his corruption by the 
Magian. and his hopes that he could keep this blood- 
taint under control. The prince agreed and swore a 
vow of secrecy to his friend, Y'urre built a bond of 
trust with Qandar over a few months, and then he let 
loose Qandar's secret to gossips and blamed the 
prince for the impropriety Qandar. enraged over 
being exposed and betrayed, lost control. In a fmy he 
slaughtered the entire royal family at the banquet 
where the gossip exposed his shame, Thai day, he 
grew his claws and tail and began his status as the 
Manticore, Y'urre, once ninth in line for the throne, 
was now the heir t but he "was forced into a life of 



servitude tinder my family's destroyer to save mv life," 
For years. Y'urre has managed the Manticore, 
working with him as a friend and allowing no 
one else to see him* It is a partnership that 
stiU works for Yu m, and the brooding 
Qandar would rather he left alone in 
his misery Invaders, including the 
Raven, stay outside of his bor 
ders for fear of the 
awnshegh ' ruler." 


Yurre's method of ridding himself 
of troublesome warriors and nobles is unique. He 
clandestinely recruits them to "kill the nasty beast 
that is despoiling our fair land," but lo no avail. 
Dozens of his finest, most honorable warriors and 
spellcasters have been dispatched throughout the 
years in hopes of sending the beast to its final resting 
place, but the brave men and women never return. 
Y'urre has yet to have anyone suspect his duplicity 
and those that have, met the Manticore soon after. To 
maintain appearances that the government wants to 
be rid of the Manticore, Y'urre currently has a 5,000 
gp reward for the Manticore's proven death, though 
he certainly does not wish anyone to claim it soon. 

Lieutenants: Y'urre has no lieutenants, aside from 
his wife, simply hccause he is paranoid and trusts no 
one, lo public eyes. Y urre is the much-beleaguered 
servant, advisor and mouthpiece of the Manticore, 
kept at his side for fear that the awnshegh will slay 
his wife. 


Important NPCs: A famous herbalist named 
Morita Greenfingers lives in the sparsely populated 
province of Arrowsmith. She is best known for the 
ability to grow any plant in any condition or envi 
ronment. The plants she works with are excellent 
components for potions and spells, making her ser 
vices much in demand. 

Domain Description: The domain borders the 
Raven s northern perimeter and is hemmed on the 
east by the Sea of Dragons. A mountain range, lack 
ing in quality ores, helps stabilize the western bor 
der with Rovninodensk, Arrowsmith, the domain's 
southernmost province, is populated by a small ban 
dit group called the Order of the Horn that makes 
its living hy blocking trade routes and demanding a 
toll, II tlie toll is not paid, the bandits take every 
thing-including lives If necessary. 

Madrik, a province with lev lines to all other 
provinces in the domain, is the Manticore s home. 
Several army units reside here, trying to keep the 
Manticore at bay Y'urre, the domain's true regent, 
has lost more troops to the Manticore s voracious 
appetite than to any outside influences. 

Domain Capital: Morrins; The capital is relatively 
small, but it is set up as two separate cities; one 
main city and port on the hav, and one fortified 
small city set a mile south of it, Both are referred to 



port of Morrins/' and the other is colloquially 
known as "the Manticores Lair." The southern Lair 
used to be the major seat of the ruling family, but Is 
now a relatively empty castle inhabited only bv 
Y'urre, his family, the Manticore. and a number of 
press-ganged servants from surrounding areas. 


leam more, especially since 
he still needed to understand his 
own new blooded abilities. 

Qandar was held in a dungeon for months 
while the Magian studied him and other blooded 
captives* He was the only survivor when the Magian 
perfected his new spell. During a three-day cere 
mony, the Magian added the corruptive taint of 
Azrai's blood into Qandar; while Qandar still kept 
his old blood abilities, he gained bloadform and 
other abilities and became the corrupt awnshegh he 
is today. 


Domain CmE$: 

Okati 

Domain Vil 
lages; Arrow- 
smith, Madrik. 

Special Loca 
tions: The 
Manticore s 
Lair 

Trade Goods; 

The domain 

exports plants used fur magical concoctions and 
enchantments to every area in the world. Most of 
the plants are grown in the province around Arrow- 
smith under the intense scrutiny of Marita Green- 
fingers. Ores and weapons are a great import, since 
the northern mountains lack quality ore. 

Allies: The province's only allies are those who 
depend the most on the domain s imports of rare 
herbs and plants. The Magian and the White Witch 
depend greatly on the components from this area, 
and they are always ready to back the Mantkores 
domain in any political strife, The Manticore him 
self knows nothing of this alliance, set up hy Y'urrc. 

Enemies: The Raven is a quiet, respectful enemy, 
and he bides his time against the Manticore's ruler- 
ship, The Raven s spies found out Lhe secrets of how 
this domain is run, and the former Warlord Tusilov 
simply waits for the delicate house of cards to fall in 
on the greedy ''servant" oi the Mantfcore. Once that 
occurs, he can easily enter and conquer the domain, 
including its remorseful awnshegh "ruler," 

SPECIAL Conditions: The Manticore is an awnshegh 
brought into being by the Magian. Wlien Qandar 
was captured by the Riders, he had shown 
his blooded powers. The 
Magian wanted to 




Bloodline Corruption (Alteration) 

9th-Levci Wizard Spell 

Range: 50 feet 

Components: V, 5, M 

Duration: Permanent 

Casting Time: 60 hours 

Area of Effect: 2 creatures 

Saving Throw: None 


This spell changes the bloodline of a creature 
from its original source to that of AzraL forcing 
the creature to become an awnshegh. Bloodline 
corruption forms a link between the caster (or 
another creature) and the recipient: for every 
three points of bloodline strength in the target 
creature, the spell drains one point of bloodline 
strength either from the caster or a character set 
to donate its strength. The recipient maintains his 
current bloodline strength and abilities, but his 
blood becomes the blood of Azrai and he gains the 
curse of bloadform and Id4 abilities available to 
Azrai bloodlines, 

The Mantle ore is the only known recipient of this 
spell* and the Magian is the only wizard with knowl 
edge of this spell on Cerilia. To foment chaos to 


exploit later, the 
Magian set up four 
scrolls with this 
spell on them to be 
"stolen" and scat 
tered about 
Cerilia. 






' Jfl ¦iCMi 

*t. Mar "*' 1 ' 


**, *7 m v r rHMPfr 

1 i % * fl - -d'l 

<Jd fwg k . 

. cc 

65 rtf 


X . F r 'W ¦¦ 





raven 


JA ccordlng to the people, there are 

LA only three true powers in this world: 

The Magian, the Gorgon, and me, the 
Raven. They say that few have the ability to stop us, 
and thoughts of the min we will hring fills the air of 
this world with panic* It is rare when rabble are 
correct. 

"I have watched for centuries from across the 
Evanescence-the barrier between here and what 
the masses call the Shadow' World. I know' every 
one's weaknesses, and I know their strong points. 1 
enjoy turning weaknesses against foes unexpectedly 
to cripple their strength. Fret not-'twill be vour 
turn soon enough. 

"Why has the Raven returned to Cerilia? A fool 
inherited this throne, he gave it to me, and 1 
granted it to another for its own salvation. My 
plans, chroniclers, you shall write upon their 
fruition in days to come. You shall write that the 
Son of Azrai led the Vos to glory unheard of in a 
millennia* For that shall be the truth. 

"The Gorgon, Azmi's grandest mortal champion, 
has survived since Deismaar; impressive, though 
his guile and artifice are child's play compared to 
mine. The Magian is new to this continent; like all 
those with power, the corruption runs deep, and 
even an immortal may fall from rot within. 1 have 
but recently returned to claim a throne and a right 
ful place of power* Even so, we are a triumverate 
and we shall unite to bring all lessors down before 
us. The Gorgon is our juggernaut, a primal engine 
of destruction. Hie Magian is our wizard, the twin 
farces of blood and magic fully attuned for chaos to 
bring about order. I, the Raven, am the general, a 
practiced leader and strategist beyond compare. I 
could exercise the strengths of both my comrades 
and none of their weaknesses* but my 
time of ascension is yet to come, 
and then I shall soon not 
need them. When the 
time is right, w 7 ith 
r the will of Azrai 

and Befinik 
behind me, 
all shall see 
me van 
quish 
my 




partners and finally become my father's son in truth 
as in title." The Raven speaks strangely, as if he 
existed long ago on this continent. While there was 
once a wizard known as Raven before the Deis- 
maar, he disappeared 2,000 years ago* Still, War 
lord Tusilov has changed since taking the throne, 
and not all for the good. 

By all accounts, Tsar Lenski of the Ust Atka 
domain was a weak leader He couldn't get the 
noble families to work together, and territorial and 
commercial conflicts disrupted Ust Atka for 
decades- The five leading Vos families were always 
at odds over one issue or another. Tsar Lenski 
started looking for any sources to help unify his 
country. He looked toward his loyal army, and 
raised a Vos warrior named Pyotr Tusilov to his side 
as a military advisor. With Tusilov's aid, Lenski 
hoped to bring his people together--by Force* if 
necessary. For a short time, this solidified the tsar's 
power, but civil war broke out soon enough* each 
noble family backing an army in the conflict. Tusilov 
made it clear that his support was temporary, and 
when he had quelled the unrest, he would return to 
claim the tsar's throne by force. 

Tsar Lenski, in desperation, turned to magic to 
aid him. He bought help from Clemedh. an obscure 
wizard from M era set, who promised a solution with 
a price. After much deliberation, the Tsar accepted* 
Closely following Clemedh's directions, Tsar Lenski 
traced an elaborate pattern of movements around 
his estate* unaware that he was being stalked by 
Warlord Tusilov. Both men were led by Glemedh's 
directions unwittingly into the Shadow World and 
to the edge of a targe pool of blood* 

Lenski, still oblivious to Tusilov's presence, spot 
ted a large raven along the shore and approached it* 
The raven asked, "What is it you seek?" Lenski 
replied, H I search for a way to unite my shattered 
people, and I fear this lack of unity will be our even 
tual downfall. I want the power to coalesce my 
people* and Tm willing to pay any fair price." The 
raven cawed in joy and shook its feathers* "Very 
well, I can help you, and the price is quite fair* Pay 
him, warlord." 

As Lenski spun around in horror, he met the 
blade of a broad sword ending his 
life. As the tsar's birthright 



C/ 



escaped, the raven 
absorbed every iota of energy from 
the dead ruler, much to the surprise of War 
lord a Tusilov, "Wony not, my friend. You too have 
your purpose here, and your body shall wield more 
power than you ever dreamed ! M croaked the raven. It 
flew toward the warlord and entered his body 
through his screaming mouth, evicting his own spirit 
and stranding it in the Shadow World. 

When the warlord returned to Cerilia with the body 
of Lenski, changes started occurring. Warlord Tusilov 
took the throne and executed the heads of the noble 
families, absorbing power from their minor bloodlines 
as well. Soon, the once-handsome warlord began wear 
ing a hood or helm to cover his face. In almost 75 
years, no one has ga^od on the face of Warlord Tusilov, 
now known as the most ruthless general of Vosgaard. 
the Raven. Given the harshness by which he con 
quered the realm, many believe he has started to 
change into an awnshegh, though none can prove it. 

Despite the Ravens brutalities, he has managed 
to unite the country under one ruler and one ban 
ner (a red field with a raven with a single white 
eye stretching its wings across the banner), The 
Raven has even gained land to the east and south 
east, conquering six provinces owned by 
Zoloskaya and Yeninskiy. They were easy acquisi 
tions and the Raven plans on continuing east till 
he reaches the sea. 

At times, the Raven refers to himself as the Son of 
Azrai, an affectation that disturbs many, Many say 
that the Raven wields power with an ease dial terrifies 
even the hardest of hearts. Whether "Son of Azrai ' is 
just an assumed title by a proud warrior or it has some 
shred of truth to it is unknown. The sheer hubris of 
this title (and the incumbent dangers it involves) is 
enough to impress even the might)' Gorgon. 

Many rumors swirl about the Raven in terms of 
evils or powers he has '"but keeps secret," If any i ; 
are to he believed, the Raven can fly by night on 
wings of darkness, steal bloodline strength 
from a ruler with a glance, and attack a loe 
with at least seven sword blows in a second! 

Tales of its appearance claim its skin is 
covered by black feathers and his face 
has grown a beak: his armor is empty* 
filled only by his power; or the 
Raven is actually two people-a 
warrior and a mage-that 
appear in public covered 
with the same 
illusions! 







































Blood Abilities Alertness (Minor), Bloods 
form (Major) t Heightened Ability (Minor). In vul 
nerability ('Great), Regeneration (Major), 
Shadowform (Great), Travel (Great). 

XP Value: 21.000 

S: 19 (+3, +7} D: 21 (+4 +4, -5) C: 23 (+6) 
1:22 W: 22 Ch: 17 

The Raven is a formidable enemy in battles of amis 
or spells. His usual weapons include two long 
swords (a frostbrand +2 and a /lametoiigwe +3, 
wielded simultaneously) and he keeps two daggers 
+ J tucked in his belt. He also keeps a scimitar of 
speed and a magical bardiche in his chambers. 


Finally a recent rumor implies that the Raven is 
one ol Ihe Lost, the original human sorcerors 
taught true magic by Azrai This, however, is in seri 
ous doubt since it is a well-known fact that all of the 
Lost were killed at Deismaar. 

Intelligence: 22 
Activity Cycle: Day 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement 12 
Size; M 161 6)' tall) 

Armor, Class: 4, (-2 with armor) 

Hit Points: 166 
Saves As: F17 or Wl4 
THACO: 4 
No. of Attacks: 2 
Dm G/AtTAt; K: By we a pon type 
Special Aitacks: Spells 
Special Defenses: Nil 
y Magic Reslsiance: Nil 
Morale: 20 (fearless) 

Blood: True (Azrai) 77 


Finally, he has a dagger that hums with latent power, 
but its magic cannot be tapped. It lacks a gem in the 
haft of the pommel, and this may be the key to its 
power. Only the Raven knows of this* 

The Raven also casts wizard spells at 14th level of 
ability His most common spells are: 

1st Level: Change self, color spray, enlarge, magic 
missile ( x2) 

2nd Level: Blur, ESP, fog cloud, scare, wet, 

3rd Level: Dispel magic, fireball, fly, haste, slow 
4th Level: Charm monster confusion* dig , mass- 
morph 

5th Level: Chaos, demi-shadow monsters , shadow 

magic (x2) 

6 th Level: Demi-shadow magic, mislead. 

7th Level: Shadow walk 
Realm: AH 








Realm Name: The Raven's Domain (Ust Atka). 
Location: East of Kal Kalaihor. 

Status: Not available for PC use. 

Alignment; Lawful evil 

Provtnc es/Holdings; Through agents, the Raven 
controls nearly all the law; source, and temple hold 
ings In his domain. The Wing, a guild network, man 
ages both his trade holdings and espionage activities 
for the domain. 


Regency Generated/Accu 
mulated; 82/100 RP 
GOLD GeNERWED/ACCUMULATED: 

35/15 GB 

Army: The Raven has a lethal and devastating 
armv, Each province along the domain's northern, 
southern, and western borders possesses one unit 
of infantry. Die eastern border provinces are occu 
pied by eight units of cavalry and infantry in vari 
ous concentrations along the border. Imminent 
plans for the overthrow of Zoloskaya and Veninskiy 
have caused these severe movements. At this 
point, the plan is for one force to move into 
Zoloskaya, not stopping until the easternmost sec 
tions are reached. The second force will create a 
blocking file to protect the main force s southern 
flank from retaliation by Yeninskiy. Once the sea is 
reached, much of the force will be placed along the 
Yeninskiyan northern border. The blocking file 
then moves south into Yeninskiy and the protec 
tive forces along the Raven s eastern border move 
in from the east. The only things in question are 
when the Raven plans to initiate the attack and 
how long his opponents will he able to hold his 
forces back. 

Regent: The Raven. He dresses all in black, and 
even his sword, armor, and helmet are coated in a 
black matte finish. The steel mesh mask he wears 
under his helmet completely covers the face, allow 
ing only one glaring eye to be seen, In the decade 
since its appearance, no one has ever seen the 
Raven's face. It should be similar to the image of 
Warlord Tusilov, but this is doubtful, given the 
nature of the awnsheghlien. 


Law 

Temples 

Guilds 

Sources 

_ 

TC% : (1) 

Nal 

Rv (3) 

Rv (3) 

Bnk (2t 

W (3) 

Rv (2) 

Gr(2) 

TCV(l) 

Gr(l) 

Rv<3) 

Rv(2) 

- 

- 

Rv (2) 

Rv (2) 

Bnk (2) 

W (2) 

Rv(i) 


- 

W(l) 

Rv (4) 

Rv{2) 

- 

- 

- 

Rv(l) 

rev (2) 

<- 


Rv (1) 

Bnk (1) 

W{2) 

- 

Rv{2> 

TCV (2) 

W (3) 

Rv (2) 


_ _ 

- 

Rv (4) 

Rv (3) 

Bnk (2) 

- 

- 

Rv (5) 

Bnk (4) 

W (4) 

- 


- 

- 

Rv(5) 

Rv-the Raven; Bnk: 

r Almighty 

Temple of 


Province 
Akar Bluffs (3/3) 
An gar (3/2) 

Ayon (3/3) 
Dmitriva (2/3) 
Irtysk (2/3) 
Kolyma (1/4) 
Laptevykh (2/3) 
Nikolai (3/4) 
Patea (4/2) 
Proliv (3/3) 
Tommot (1/4) 
Ust Atka (3/4) 
Yanskia (5/2) 
Zaliv (0/8) 


ueuniiv uiunirotivu uv uic -- ~.r~ 

lackev priest); Gr^Gregon Hand! (Pietro's Men). 
TCV=One True Church of Vosgaard (uncontrolled); 
Na-Natalia Geriver (the Hunters); W=the Wing 
(tra de/thi eves 7a s sassins guild). 


Lieutenants: The Raven has seven lieutenants that 
control his border patrols and armies. Three are 
in control of the western, northern, and 
southern border patrols (one per bor 
der), while the other four help 
conduct the eastern 
aggressions (two per 
front), 



















Important NPCs: There are two main dissident* 

f toward the Raven's actions. The first is a woman 

named Natalia Geriver irom Akar Bluffs, Her 
h people are a small group of hunters who don't 

Sfr { take kindly to being forced into the roving armies 

of an insane leader. Natalia has kilted about seven 
members of the army when they stray too far from 
their own numbers and are alone. The Raven is 
very well aware of her presence, but doesn't seem 
too interested. The army has standing orders to 
kill dissidents in the area, but they are not to 
actively search for them. Outside her small 
community. Natalia has little influence 
since the Raven has been responsi 
ble for increasing the spend 
ing capital of each 
citizen, Most arc 
very content 
with their 

" \ ' lives and 


see the recruitment of the army as a necessary side 
effect, 

The second dissident is a Vos city guard from 
Ayon named Gregor* Handl. This mao goes by a 
wide number of aliases (Pietro is his most com 
mon pseudonym) whenever he's disguised and try 
ing to rally people to his side. He's surprised at 
how few people are willing to fight for their 
beliefs. Most people, he s discovered, are content 
to wait and see what happens, or to allow their 
government to do what it will. Thus far, Gregor* 
(disguised as Pietro) has rallied only seven core 
members, and together the eight are trying to 
increase their numbers. 

The Raven has caught wind of a dissident called 
Pietro and has decided to try to stop him. Even 
though Pietro is not as powerful as Natalia, he hap 
pens to be close enough to the Yeninskiy front that 
the Raven fears the agitator may become effec 
tive-or worse yet, a martyr. Mouths can be 
silenced-martyrs cannot. 



Domain Description: The Raven has been the 
ruler of Ust Atka for only about 10 years, Before 
that time Tsar Lenski was the country's leader and 
the Raven was shackled in the Shadowland, 
never able to get out without an invita 
tion from someone outside. 


70 





In the 10 years 
since his arrival, the Raven 
was able to coalesce the factions that 
threatened to split the country apart and to increase 
their land holdings by about 30%. His greedy needs 
are not yet kindled, and his aggressive posturing 
along his eastern border is evident of this. The only 
problem facing his successful conquest is the moun 
tain ranges that border Zoloskava and Yeninskiy. 
Luckily these are soft mountains of great age which 
will make their ascension relatively simple. 

Domain Capital: Yanskia 

Domain Cities: Angar* Laptevykb, Proliy. Ust Atka 
Domain Villages: Akar Bluffs, Avon. Dmitriya. 
Irtysk, Kolyma, Nikolai, Patea. Tommot, Zativ 
Special Locations: The mountains along the 
Raven's eastern border, the Calumb Range, are rich 
in metal and bandits. 

Trade Goods: The Raven exports huge quantities 
of food. Grains, breads, and meats are the domain's 
greatest exports. This is also what helps fuel the war 
machine. Without this necessary money the Raven 
would be unable to properly feed and supply his 
forces* 

The Raven imports ore, even though the moun 
tain ranges in his domain supply a great deal of his 
metallic needs. He wants to make sure that his 
forces are well supplied-preferably over supplied. 

Allies: There are unsubstantiated rumors that the 
Raven and the Gorgon have a silent pact of nonag 
gression. This rumor was given a bit more substance 
when a group of assassins from Alamie passed 
through Kiergard heading for the Raven's capitol 
city of Yanskia to assassinate him. The Gorgon's 
troops, well outside their normal range, found the 
assassins and tortured them to death. 

Enemies: Boris Tetchayav, a young boy yet but 
growing fast, is learning his weaponry skills and 
prays diligently to Kriesha to deliver the Raven to 
him. Boris is the last son of the Tetchayev clan that 
controlled the southern provinces of the Ravens 
domain, and he wants revenge for the death of his 
family and its power. The Raven hardly considers 
the boy a threat, and allows his tutoring in priestly 
orders and battlecraft to continue, hoping to meet a 
worthy opponent in decades to come. 


Special Conditions: There is a particular ancient 
tree within the estate grounds of the Raven s 
fortress at Yanskia that appears dead and rotted 
from within. Its trunk has an irregular fissure in it, 
and folk say that they see glowing eyes looking out 
from inside the tree. In truth, this tree contains a 
portal to the Shadow World, though accessing it is 
possible only by the following method: On a moon 
less night, carry an iron key over your heart, walk 
around the castle three times, always turning to 
your left, approach the tree and step in with your 
left foot first. I f these steps are followed, a portal to 
the Shadow World is temporarily opened within the 
hollow of the enormous dead oak. This entryway 
was used by Tsar Lenski and Warlord Tusilov to 
reach the Shadow WorLd and bring back the Raven, 
though they knew it not at the time, 





71 



rhuobhe 

mcuislayer 

1 Rhuobhe Manslayer, once trusted others- 
hut never Again- I trusted humans in our joint 
conquest of the goblins, We elves tried to rid 
ourselves of the constant menace and plundering of 
those gods-forsaken creatures. When the humans 
first set foot here, we saw them as an arriving for 
tune, We petitioned for their assistance, and they 
readily joined us in our battle. They'd fought thiev 
ing goblins in their homeland, and they didn't want 
to play victim to them any longer. 

"Once the goblin threat was removed from our 
forests and valleys, the humans became the next 
menace. I thought the goblins were bad. but the 
humans were Far worse in their own ty rar *nical ways. 
The humans loved to rape the land for its resources. 
W'hether in the ground or above it. Our forests were 
defoliated faster than they could repair themselves, 
and the humans could not begin to care, given the 
shortsightedness of their brief lives. All in the name 
of commerce and industry, the forests were chopped 
with axes and laws, then converted into homes and 
heating lumber. The Land was stripped of game for 
clothing and sport. War with the humans was 
inevitable, 

"We fought the humans with little success at 
first-they bred almost as fast as the goblins, and 
they were far tougher and more stubborn. In 
response, we created the gheallie Sidhe-i the Hunt 
of the Elves, for you simpletons who cannot learn 
our language! This special team of elves was 
extremely effective in killing the encroaching 
humans, I joined its ranks and underwent more 
battle training that 1 thought possible. After the 
education. I became what was needed of me: I was 
now a machine of war and a verifiable enemy of the 
human plague that racked our lands. I knew my 
enemy well, and I knew it feared me. 

"Mission after mission, we hunted the intol 
erable humans with a fervor, promising our* 
selves and the citizens of every elven 
nation that we would never cease 
until each and every lying human 
on Cerilia was killed or 
forcibly removed from our 
homelands. After mv 
LQ Oth con 
firmed kill. 



1 became known as 

Rhuobhe Manslayer, a name I carry as 
a badge of honor among our people to this day. 

"The Hunt was approached by that which was 
called Azrai with a plan to cull the humans. 1 joined 
his entourage eagerly, and he led us to further vic 
tory against the humans. At Mount Delsmaar, many 
of my people abandoned Azrai and all that had led 
us close to dominating the cursed humans, and 1 felt 
betrayed once again! When Azrai was destroyed by 
the traitorous humans and elves alike, my hatred 
and fury- gathered some of his essence, and it fuels 
my rage yet today. 

'Today and forever, my followers hunt our lands, 
looking for hated humans to kill. Not only do 
humans continue to despoil the lands, their pres 
ence has distracted the elves and thus caused the 
return of the goblins again. Once I bated goblins 
more than anything, but humans caused goblins to 
return, and therefore I hate humans more, 1 shall 
not rest until each human, be it man, woman, or 
child, is slaughtered. And then shall come the gob 
lins' day of reckoning," 

As a young elf in southern AeMnnwode on the 
hanks of the River Maesil, Rhuobhe Manslayer met 
his first humans. Hoping to find peace with the 
humans in a common enemy the elves sought their 
aid in neutralizing the rising goblin tide. Human 
and etl worked together for a short lime, and they 
learned much about each other. As the humans and 
elves pushed the goblins hack, Rhuobhe found him 
self fascinated by the humans and the way they fell 
into war so easily. 

After the goblins were beaten, the humans began 
to settle in larger numbers on the Cerilian shores, 
Rhuobhe saw little problem with this* and even 
befriended a few newcomers, showing them Cer 
ilia s secrets, 

But once the forests began to fall at a rapid pace to 
the humans 1 axes, Rhuobhe went to his friends and 
pleaded with them to cease their damaging ways, hut 
to no avail Bitter and angry, he joined the gheallie 
Sidbe and began hunting humans with a zeal unseen 
by any elf, soon gaining the label of Mansbyer, 

When Azrai came to the elves with his plan to 
destroy the human a, Rhuobhe and hundreds of 
elves eagerly allied themselves with the god. 
Although the elves deserted him upon finding what 
Azraf stood for, Rhuobhe remained with the god of 
evil. He was astonished that his fellow elves could 
forsake thetr hatred of the humans so quickly. As a 
result of his loyalty, Rhuobhe was 





bathed in Azmi's 
power at Dehmaar. 

Rhuobhe Mans layer has used 
his power to further his agenda of 
human extermination. Moving west ol his 
homelands, Rhuobhe placed himself in an impor 
tant pass between the Seamist and Stonecrown 
mountain ranges where he has harried humans for 
centuries. 


Intelligence: IB (Genius) 

Activity Cycle: Night 
Diet: Special 
Alignment: Neutral evil 
Movements 15 
Size: L (7' tall) 

Armor Class; 6 (base), -8 (with armor) 

Hn Points; 88 

Saves As; Best of F16 and WI5 
THACO: 5 (base). -2 with sword or bow 
No* OF Attacks: 2 

Dmg/ Attack : 2d4+7 (sword) or ldS+3 (bow) 
Special Attacks: Create arrows 
Special Defenses: +3 or better weapon to hit, 
immune to launched missiles. 

Magic Resistance: 25% 

Morale: 20 (Fearless) 

BLOOD: True (Azrai) 95 

Blood Abilities: Awareness (Minor), Bloodform 
(Major). Enhanced Sense (Major), Fear (Major), 
Regeneration (Minor) 

XP Value: 21,000 

S: 19 (+3, +7) D: 18 ; {+3 f +3, -4) C: 15 ( + 1) 

I; IS W: 14 Ch: 17 

(8/non-elves) 

Rhuobhe Mamiayer appears as a tall* regal elf, but 
his skin is now a shadowy gray, and he looks more 
like a marble statue than a living being. His eyes 
have become cold, solid-white orbs that 
blaze with fury when Rhuobhe is 
mad. 

The Elf has a mighty 
arsenal of magical 
weapons and 
armor at 
his 





























command; Gfaivefereaker, a suit of efvett 
plate mail +4; Angpr's Turning, a shield +3: 

Heartspi Her, 

Rhuobhes primary weapon, a bastard sword of life 
stealing +4; and Winged 



Death, a fong&ow +3, Rumors say that he might even 
have a tighmaevril weapon in his hoard! 


Rhuobhe does not cariy a quiver of arrows with 
him, because he can conjure arrows of energy at 
will. The radiant blue arrows have no attack bonus, 
but cause normal sheaf arrow damage and are +5 
weapons for the purpose of hitting creatures resis 
tant to normal weapons. When they hit, the arrows 
cause an additional ld6 points of damage unless the 
target saves vs. spell. 

The blood of 
Azxai has 
altered 

Rhuobhe's skin, 
darkening and 
toughening it. 

The elf can no 
longer be hurt 
by arrows and 
other bow- 
launched mis- 
s9es. Though 
daggers, 
thrown stones, 
and axes still alfect him, arrows and crossbow bolts 
bounce off his skin harmlessly. 

Nothing invisible escapes Rhuobhe s pearly eyes. 
They uncover all subterfuge and illusions, forcing 
his enemies to fight him on even ground. However, 
his sensitive eyes canT abide bright light; when in 
highly illuminated areas (normal daylight or 
brighter), Rhuobhe attacks with a -4 penalty. As a 
result, he can no longer operate during the day; he ? s 
a c reature of dusk who he hates those who enjoy 
I the sun, 

Rhuobhe is also a potent sorcerer. He can 
cast spells in combat while wearing his 
plate armor, though he must have 
? his hands free to do so. His 

most common memo 
rized spells are: 


Ist-level: Charm person . chill touch, jump, magic 
missile (x2) 

2nd-level; Blindness, fog cloud, levitate. siinJUitg 
cloud, web 

3rd-level: Blink, dispel magic * fly, haste, lightning 
bolt 

4th-level: Fire shield , ice storm, minor globe of 
invulnerability , plant growth, polymorph self 
5th-level: Animate dead , conjure elemental, contact 
other plane, dismissal, telekinesis 
6th4evd; Disintegrate, Otilukes freezing sphere , 
7th-level; Pmmafic spray 

Realm Spells; Demagogue, dispel realm magic , 
mass destruction, raze, scry , subversion, warding 

Realm Name: Rhuobhe 

Location: North of Avanil and south of Boerume 
Status; Not available for PC use 
Alignment: Neutral evil 

Provinces/ Holdings? This is a single province 
(2/6) with no developed areas beyond the camps of 
Rhuobhes forces and his fortress Tower Ruannoch, 
a castle (5). Rhuobhe controls all law and source 
holdings within his domain, and he is especially 
careful to guard access to the magical sources, 
which are centered near Ruannoch, As an "uncivi 
lized' 1 elven area, there are no guild or temple hold 
ings within its borders. 

Regency Generated/Accumulated: 17/35 RP 
Gold Gbnermed/Accvmxjijkied: 8/12 GB 

Army: Rhuobhe now spends his time in Tower 
Rhuannooh plotting humanity's removal from Ger- 
ilia. He has gathered a force of hundreds of elves to 
him and is training them to destroy the neighboring 
kingdoms. In all, Rhuobhe has four units of elven 
infantry and two units of medium elven cavalry. 




Regent; Rhuobhe Maoslayer 
Lieutenants: Rhuobhe has no direct lieutenants, 
as he puts great faith and trust in all of his loyal 
band. His favorites and constant companions 
include a female named Gwyn and the young hot 
headed elf Nhoun, whom Rhuobhe nicknamed 
"The Butcher" after his Last bloody encounter 
with human loggers. 



74 







Imomm NPGs: Rhuobhe has completely cleared 
his forest domain of humans. If humans enter the 
area. Rhuobhe somehow senses them, and blood 
thirsty' culling raids are sent out against such impru 
dent folk. 

One such foolhardy human, an elf-hater named 
Baracus, calls himself Rhuabheslayer. He is hunting 
for the Elf. hoping to kill him and thus end the ugly 
war. Baracus magically disguises himself as an elf to 
pass through the land safely. He dresses in animal 
skim in order to keep himself separate from the 
rest of elven culture and prevent his disguise irom 
being compromised. Those looking to rid the world 
of the menace called Rhuobhe Manslayer should 
seek out this human, who sometimes rests in Tuor* 
neti. His knowledge of Rhuobhe's domain is impres 
sive, to say the least. 

Domain Description; Unspoiled by even the 
smallest of roads, the domain is among the most 
undeveloped and wild areas in Anuirean lands. If 
vou did not know elves populate this expanse, 
you would never believe the forest or mountains 
were ever touched by even a footprint. There are 
small e!veo camps where the trees are shaped 
and constructed around natural dwellings, but 
the bulk of the domain is wild and untamed, like 
its ruler. 

Rhuobhe Mans layer's Tower Ruannoch is a tall, 
blackened spire of wood and stone, which sits on 


the banks of Clearwater Lake- its base is a colossal 
tree stump- Surrounded by a wall of brambles and 
thorns, the keep can be reached only by a small, 
well-protected path that leads to a portcullis and 
gate. Cages dangle off outcroppings along the sides 
of the spire from the ground to its peak; the cages 
are occupied by the skeletons of traitorous el\es 
who betray Rhuobhe and humans who foolishly 
attempt to destroy the Manslayer and his kin. 
Rumor has it that something truly malevolent-all 
eyes and teeth, if one survivor is to be believed, 
lives within the wall of brambles surrounding Tower 
Ruannoch, and that creature is linked to the 
Shadow World. 


Domain Capital: Ruannoch 
Domain Villages; Elfexult, Sylvan Crater 
Special Locations; Clearwater Lake 
Trade Goods; Ml Rhuobhe and his followers could 
want is found in the forests and mountains where 
they make their home. They can create weapons, 
should they need them, but the elves take pride in 
wielding weapons forged before man came to Cer- 

j]j a _and they vow to wield them until mankind has 

left again. There are no exports or imports for this 
realm. 


Allies: Rhuobhe Manslayer has no dose allies. Hie 
elven nations scattered around Cetilia bear no ani 
mosity toward the Elf. but they don t support his 
hostile ways, either. He's become far too diabolical 
in his intents for their liking. 

Special Conditions: Rhuobhe has changed over 
the past 1.500 years with his awnshegh status from 
Deismaar. In the years since the gods' destruction, 
he has become more lawful and more stringent in 
his actions, rather than trusting to the chaos that 
once ruled his life. He is committed more to pre 
serving and expanding the elven way of living than 
enjoying his own life, a far cry Irons the usual elven 
outlook. Traditionally chaotic, elves are suspi 
cions that he has drifted toward neutrality 
Thus, some would say he is unfit tor the 
ghealie Sidhc and fighting for the elven ~ 

way of life, though he still believes in ; > 

driving humans out of Cerilia. . . _ L , 









75 



seadrake 


I was a merchant, and my wife and daughter 
had the best things my profits tould afford. I 
loved them more than anything else, and 
everything I did was for them. That s why i risked 
my life sailing the Straits of Aerele, 1 made my trade 
earning goods and passengers, and it was profitable 
for years, My luck ran out the day a green-cloaked 
passenger booked passage with his weight in gold. 
He spoke very little 
and always in a 
whisper, I was sus 
picious. but the gold 
clouded my reason, 

<r We embarked in 
early afternoon with 
full sails unfurled 
and good weather. 

Un fort u nate ly, we 
were caught in a 
furious storm. The 
strange passenger lost his hood, and we saw him in 
his fall* scaled ugliness. He attacked a woman who 
screamed in terror, and a battle began. Many of my 
crew fell to the creature before 1 crept behind the 
creature anti stabbed it with a harpoon. The beast 
cursed my name and my family as its dark ichor 
stained my deck. 

M was cursed by the diabolic beast, and I soon 
took on its characteristics. In desperation, 1 tried to 
drown myself but 1 found I could breathe water as 
easily as air. Now, I'm cursed to live my life here in 
the Straits of Acre le. To this day, I don't know why it 
was so important for the scaled man to gain passage 
to Mieres. Still, the lime for stories is done, and you 
owe me two hundred gold pieces for sale passage. 1 ' 

About 600 years ago, while Roeles still ruled 
Anuire. Garrilein Suliere, an Anuirean merchant, 
sailed the Straits of Aerele, selling grains, steel, 
and fabrics to Micren merchants. In return, he 
came home with gold, spices, and silk. He 
and his family lived well off the profits, 
but he was ever greedy far more. On 
.v- . his trips, he sometimes supplc- 

^ mented his cargo with passen 

gers who wished to visit 
^ v die other side of the 

^ ' Straits. One 

* tBr 7 ¦ v 'Jv * 

.. ¦ \ mysterious 

4 f : S,; 

x v 

76 T '• - 


cloaked passenger in particular, who 
paid his weight in gold, proved to be Garrilem s 
undoing. That trip and passenger irrevocably 
changed Garrilein's fife. 

A storm came up and the wind blew the passen 
gers cloak from his face. He was scaled and homed, 
a horrible lizard-creature that slaughtered the crew 
members where they stood. Though Gamlein was 
only a mediocre fighter, he couldn't stand by and 
watch his crew die. Summoning his paltry courage. 
Garrilem crept up behind the beast and drove a har 
poon through its back. The scaled beast perished, 
curbing Garrilem all the while. 

Whether it was the curse or the slaying of the 
creature that awoke Gamlein's blood abilities, he 
gradually took on the beast's scales over the next 
few years. Soon, he could no longer show 7 his face in 
public and did his business through intermediaries 
and couriers. His appearance continued to worsen, 
until at last he slipped into the sea in an attempt to 
drown himself. 

He found that immersion in water didn't kill him; 
instead* the salt water of the Straits sped up his 
transformation, and he swiftly became a sea ser 
pent. The years have seen the creature become 
larger and more powerful. Despite the fact that he 
isn't evil, his evolution continues, 

The Seadrake currently appears as a 50-foot-Iong 
serpent with a large, fan-like crest adorning his 
back. He is mottled green and blue, and he blends 
easily with the turbulent waters of die Straits. Fangs 
fill the Seadrakes mouth, and he moves powerfully 
through water with great speeds. He is no longer 
even remotely human except for his morals and his 
ability to speak; sailors of the Straits speak of the 
Seadrake as "he," not "it." 

The Seadrake can breathe either water or air with 
no difficulty, but he has difficulty 7 moving on land, 
He has, in the past, pursued enemies onto shore* 
but he prefers the water, where he can maneuver. 

Although he lias little use for it* the Seadrake still 
collects treasure, taking it from the captains of ves 
sels that navigate the Straits of Aerele. ties terror 
ized merchant ships for the past 500 years. After 
the first few years, rumors rendered the brave weak; 
few now dare to deny him the treasure he seeks. He 
doesn't take life when it can he avoided. He kills 
only in self-defense or when he attacks pirate ships 
that disrupt his tribute. Apparently he feds some 
obligation to earn the money he takes from the 
traders. 





Intelligence: 10 (Average) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Omnivore 
Alignment: Neutral 
Movement: 6, Sw24 
Size: L (50' long) 

Armor Class: 0 
Hit Points: 100 hp 
Saves As: FI5 
THACO: 5 

No. OF Attacks: 1 (bite) or 2 (flukes) 

Dmc/ Attack: 3d 10 (bite) or 2d8/2dS (flukes) 

Spec lal Attacks: Crushing coils, Swallow 
Special Defenses: Ink cloud, regeneration 
Magic Resistance: Nil 
Morale: 17 (Fanatic) 

Blood: Great (Azrai) 60 

BUdod Abilities: Bloodforra (Great). Major Regen- 
eration (Great), Regeneration (Great). 

XP Value: 14.000 

Ship captains rarely resist giving their tribute to the 
Seadrake* since he is quite well equipped to destroy 
their small ships. His bite causes 3d 10 points of dam 
age with his razor-sharp teeth. Alternately, he can 
make a crushing attack with the two flukes of his 
tremendous talk each causing 2d8 points of damage. 
Breakable objects with a victim must save vs. crush* 
ing blow when hit by either attack or he shattered. 

The Seadrake has growm to a sufficient size where 
he can swallow man-sized enemies. If attacking with 
his bite, the Seadrake can swallow his victim whole 
on an unmodified roll of 19 or 20. The victim takes 
an added id2G points of damage from its teeth. 
When a victim enters the Seadrakes gullet. he has 
ld6 rounds to cut his way free-by causing 20 
point s of damage to AC 5-before he drowns and is 
consumed in the stomach. Only small slashing and 
piercing weapons can be used inside the creature to 
cut a way out; there's no room for larger weapons, 
and bludgeoning weapons have no effect, 

The Seadrake can wrap his length around a ship 
that's smaller than 20 feet across and crush it by eight- 
cuing the coil. If the wood of the ship cannot save 
vs, crushing blow, the hull is pulverized and the 
ship sinks into the ocean, taking ld4+2 
rounds to submerge. If the Sead 
rake chooses to 


remain wrapped around 
a foundering ship, the hulk 
sinks at the end of the round as 
the Seadrake's weight drags it to a 
watery 7 grave. 

II hLs life is in serious jeopardy the Seadrake can 
emit an inkcloud from under his flukes to escape. 
This defense mechanism acts as a darkness spell with 
a 50-foot radius underwater; this protection is inef 
fective above water or on land. 

The Seadrake regenerates two hit points per 
round. If a wound is exposed to air for more than 
three rounds, it must heal normally If reduced to 
-10 hit points, the Seadrake dies. 

The Seadrake patrols the Straits of Aerele, eating 
sharks and whales. If these are not available, he can 
eat plankton or seaweed just as easily. His home is a 
grotto under Baergos Isle, where he drags the trib 
ute lelt by sailors eager to avoid hLs wrath; at this 
time, the Seadrake has accumulated over 50 GB 
worth of treasure in his grotto. A few brave souls 
have stolen from this grotto, planning carefully to 
enter when the Seadrake is a way - but this is a 
chancy venture, for the Seadrake keeps no set 
schedule and might return at any instant. Despite a 
generally paeifistic nature, he will kill anyone he 
finds tampering with his treasure. Though he has no 
use for it, he still enjoys its presence. Some suggest 
the Seadrake collects treasure to remind him of his 
lost humanity, 

Prospective travelers on the Straits are warned: 
Though the Seadrake can be bargained with, he 
always demands tribute and is angered if denied it. 
There has never been a recorded case of someone 
escaping from the Seadrake by promising to return 
later with gold. Though he is greedy he is not stu 
pid, No one escapes an encounter with the Sead 
rake with purse intact. 



- % 


77 




serpent 

am the Voice of the Serpent, and you will heed 
my words and despair. The Serpent is a god 
unto his followers, and a fiend unto his ene 
mies, Those who do not bow down and worship die 
Serpent as a new god coiled upon our lands and 
seas w ill learn, much to their quaking terror, that he 
is the true heir of Azrai T and not some petty tyrant 
as some fools would hope and suppose, 

u The Serpent alone of the awnsheghlien bom at 
Mount Deismaar can assume the form of the Great 
Snake, which all truly wise folk know to he divine. 
In this form, he can consume whole villages * or 
strangle the life out of the world, but in his munifi 
cence he chooses not to do so. 'Oie Serpent is a true 
god, and he will reward those faithful who serve 
him with their whole bodies and spirits. 

'Take heed! The Masetiaa people live on under 
the Serpent's watchful gaze! The Sons of the Ser 
pent gain their righteous powers from his holiness, 
and their true faith is rewarded by his favor. The 
Priest-Lord Lakial rules the Sons and pays homage 
to the Serpent, and I. who was once Ekila, speak 
with his true Voice, Even the Basarji, who have not 
yet fully accepted the true faith of the Serpent, pay 
tribute to him, that they might deter his righteous 
wrath. 

"The day is not long in coming when the Sons of 
the Serpent shall go forth into the world and 
spread the true word of their god to all the peo 
ples of Cerilia. Already, the Serpent confers with 
the Celestial Brotherhood of Serpents, and he 
foretells the approaching Lime of the great cru 
sade. All resistance shall be swept away before his 
devoted, and the Serpent shall bring order to all 
peoples, Bow down to his holiness now and spare 
yourselves from his wrath, , , ¥ 




i, •-4 


mjMR 


m'-ft 


•. t ' f '% m:' ^ 

78 


Known alternatively as the Serpent's 
Voice, the Serpent's Tongue, or the 
Voice of the Serpent, Ekila is 
an apparently young 
Masetian woman. 
She is the 





spokes 

woman 



for the Serpent, and she supposedly has his voice 
speaking through her to all the Serpent's subjects 
but the select few actually admitted into the Ser 
pent's presence. In recent years, it has been 
reported that only the High Priest (a wizened old 
man named Thatio, who calls himself the t( High Son 
of the Serpent'}, a few of his High Clerics t and 
Ekila herself have actually seen and spoken to the 
Serpent in person, Anyone else who has met the 
Serpent has not lived to tell the tale. 

The Sons of the Serpent devoutly believe that the 
Serpent has stopped showing himself to the people 
he governs because he has ascended to a heavenly 
throne and now' comes to the mortal world of Cer- 
ilia in his tangible form only when it pleases him to 
do so. They profess that the Serpent, now a god in a 
pantheon of all serpent gods, rules over his domain 
from the heavens. 

Those who doubt the Serpent's divinity have a 
more pragmatic explanation: The Serpent has 








"invented'' his own pantheon 
of gods and has inducted himself as a 
member. Whether he truly believes himself to be a 
creature of divinity is something no one but his 
closest advisors can say-and if Ekila and Priest 
Lord Lalrial believe this self-concocted myth, the 
Serpent can fool anyone in his domain, 

But there are still a few questions that trouble the 
Serpents detracters, What is this "Celestial Broth 
erhood of Serpents" the Voice speaks of, and why 
has no one else ever recorded the existence of such 
a pantheon? Has the Serpent made contact with 
some divine powers other than those previously 
known to Cerilia? Has he made some unholy bar 
gain with them? If the Serpent is only an awnshegh 
and not a god, how can logic explain the spells that 
the Sons of the Serpent* the Serpents worshipers, 
are able to cast? If the Serpent himself is not divine, 
what power fuels their magic? 

For centuries* the only news and stories that 
made it across the waves of the Bair el-Mehare 
about the Serpent were ones that spoke of his 
utter cruelty, savagery, and inhuman ruthlessness 
in enslaving his once-noble people. One can only 
hope that whoever-the Serpent himself, the 
Voice, or another among the Serpent's Chosen- 
has of late tempered the awnshegh s legendary 
cruelty and man-eating tendencies will continue 
to do so, While this makes his followers that much 
more loyal, and many now seem to serve him out 
of reverence rather than fear, it may also mean 
that the Serpent could be undergoing another 
metamorphosis-perhaps one less dangerous to 
his Khinasi neighbors and Cerilia in general, or 
one even more startling than the changes wrought 
at Deismaar. 

Intelligence: 15 
Acnvrrv Cycle: Night 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: Lawful evil 
Movement: 12 (all forms) 

Size: M (6^) r tall), L (9' tall), or G (5CT long) 

ARMOR Class: 2 (human/serpent-man) / -4 (serpent) 
Hu Points: 130 
Saves As: F18/W12 
THACO: 3 (base) 

No. OF Attacks: 2 (human): 3 (serpent-man); or 1 
(giant serpent) 

D mc./Attack: By weapon; Idb/ld6/2d8 
(daw/cfaw/bite); or 4d8 (bite) 






A*' 





















Special Attacks: Spells (human & 
serpent-man), Poison (serpent-man & giant 
serpent), constriction* swallow (serpent) 

Special Defenses: +2 or better weapons to hit (all) 
Magic Resistance; 25% 

Morale: 20 

Blood: True (Axrai) 77 

Blood Abflittes: Bloodform (Great), Charm Aura 
(Major), Divine Aura (Great), Fear (Major), 
Long Life (Great), Major Regeneration (Great). 
Major Resistance-Magic (Minor), Regeneration 
(Great) 

XP Value: 2S,000 


Human Ability Scores 

S: 19 (+3, +6) D; 16 ( + 1,+1.-2) C: 19 (+5) 
1:15 WM8M) Gh: 21 

Serpent-Man Ability Scores 

S: 23 (+5* +11) D: 18 (+2.+2,-4) C: 21 (+6) 

1:15 W; 18 (+4) Ch: 17 



The Serpent is an awnshegh that stands out as 
something truly extraordinary, something more 
than half-monster and Jess than half-man. He is 
also something of a deity, at least among his own 
people on the Isle of the Serpent, and this worries 
many of his neighbors. These outsiders deny his 
divinity, yet they cannot refute the evidence that his 
priests, who worship him , can cast spells. Either the 
Serpent has become something far more powerful 
than an awnshegh, or there are a multitude of 
secrets about him and his people that no mainlan- 
der can begin to guess. 

Whether he is a deity or just an awnshegh, the 
Serpent is a dangerous, reclusive foe. If he is 

forced into 
combat, he 
can fight as a 
serpent 
headed 
humanoid* 
using claws 
and fangs* or 
he can 
shapcchange 
into a giant 
constrictor 
serpent, the 
tikes of 
have 


seen before m Cerilia. 

As a humanoid, the Serpent appears 
as a tall, well-proportioned man with the head of 
a giant snake: the Serpent has not shifted back to 
his original form of a Masetian male in over 400 
years, hut whether he chooses not to or cannot 
change is a mystery, As a serpent-man, his body 
motions are smooth and precise, but his head darts 
about like that of a hunting snake-back and forth, 
his forked tongue flicking in and out continuously. 
In this form, the Serpent disdains the use of weap 
ons. His claws and fangs can act as +4 magical 
weapons in terms of which targets they affect, 
Quick and agile, the Serpent is almost impossible to 
hit. and his smooth, almost perfect skin is harder 
than the densest plate mail. The Serpent wears only 
a silk loincloth and a loose ornamental collar. He 
might also wear a weapons' belt with a pouch 
attached, but what he keeps in that pouch is 
unknown. Perhaps it is where he keeps spell compo 
nents-many people have forgotten that the Serpent 
ts a powerful wizard as well as an awnshegh and a 
warrior. 

if a character is bitten by the Serpent in either 
his humanoid or serpent form, a saving throw ver 
sus poison is required at a -4 penalty If the char 
acter succeeds, he takes 2-8 hit points of damage 
along with the bite damage. The poisoned charac 
ter fights at a -2 penalty on all rolls until a neutral 
ize poison is cast on him or he gets at least 24 
hours of rest. If the character fails his saving 
throw, he takes the damage listed above, and. if he 
survives, the Serpent decides the character is 
"worthy* to serve him. In one round, the victim 
will then either change into a constrictor snake 
{see the MONSTROUS MANUAL'", Snake) under the 
Serpent's total control, or he will retain human 
form and be subject to a powerful domination 
spell Either magic lasts until the victim is killed or 
a full phase of the moon passes (about a week), At 
this time, the Serpent wilt either consume the vic 
tim or release him-there is no telling which the 
Serpent will choose at any given time, A wish spell 
is all that can free a character from the Serpent's 
control before the poison wears off. 

The Serpent can also cast spells while in human 
oid (or human) form, and he casts them at 12th 
ieve! of ability. Commonly memorized spoils include 
the following: 














1st Level; Color spray, grease, magic missile fx2) 

2nd Level: Darkness 15 radius, ray of enfeebh- 
ment " scare, web 

3rd Level: Dttpd magic, fireball baste , slow 

4th Level: Confusion, dig. Otiluke's resilient 
sphere, shout 

3th Level: Animate dead, cone of cold, domination , 
monster summoning 111 

6th Level: Monster summoning A r 

Should the Serpent choose to change into his con 
strictor form, the danger will only increase. Over the 
past few centuries, the Serpent has become more ani 
malistic in his habits-he used to be lawful evil, and 
now he is almost completely chaotic in his monstrous 
form. He fights as an animal, squeezing the life out of 
his foes, then swallowing them whole. He can 
shapechange in one complete round of combat. 

If the Serpent hits a character with his coils, that 
character takes IdS points of damage and must suc 
cessfully save vs, paralyzatiun or be trapped in the 
Serpent s coils. Each round thereafter, the character 
takes 2dS points of damage automatically and is 
allowed another save to try to escape again. If the 
character has a Strength score of 19 or higher, he 
can add half of his Strength damage bonus to his 
saving throw. The Serpent can hold and constrict up 
to six man-sized characters at once. Characters held 
in the Serpent's coils are virtually immobile-they 
cannot attack, defend, draw weapons, or cast any 
spells that require movement or the use of compo 
nents. However, they are protected from other 
external attacks by the Serpent s own armor class. 



The Serpent, like a 
few other awnsheghIieii T has 
become more animalistic and less 
human over the years. He has taken to 
a snake's habits: He is primarily nocturnal 
and dislikes going outside during the daytime. In 
fact, the Serpent is uncomfortable in open spaces or 
in broad daylight: if put in these situations, the Ser 
pent's morale drops to 13. This may be the reason 
he speaks to his followers only through the Voice. 

A final irony: Once a great Masetian sea captain, 
the Serpent is building a great armada to invade his 
coastal neighbors, but it is highly unlikely that he 
will captain any of his ships himself, even on a noc 
turnal voyage. 

All of the Serpent's blood abilities can be used in 
any of his forms and in conjunction with any other 
abilities. The Serpent can speak in either form 1 
though he is difficult to understand because of his 
spitting and hissing. If the Voice is nearby, she usu 
ally speaks for the Serpent, or reiterates in clearer 
language what he relates. 


Realm Name: Isle of the Serpent 
Location: East of Ghamouxa in the Ajari Deeps 
Status: Unavailable to PC use 
Alignment: Lawful evil 

Provinces/Holdings: The two areas on the Isle are 
Calliana, province (1), and Masetium, the civilized 
province (6), No matter where you go, the Serpents 
presence is everywhere. 

Law: The Sons of the Serpent are the awnshegh's 
police force, and control all the law holdings but 
yield the regency to the Serpent, 

Temples: The Sons of the Serpent have a large 
series of temples throughout the island, and worship 
at these is mandatory Attempts have been made at 
expanding the Serpents worship, and there are one 
or two small temples on the islands off the coast of 
Ghamoura and Khouraae with small enough follow 
ings to not attract the attentions of the 
region's political and religious 


leaders. 

Guilds: The Society 
of the Serpent, the 
thieves' guild of 
the domain. 


¦ ;<y&& 





M 














dominates the guild traffic 

of the island and much of the 

coastal lands along Bair el-Mehare; 

if anyone seeks to do trade, whether 

honest or illicit, they must first deal with 

the Society of the Serpent. This Isle is the 

only area where they operate openly as a true 

trade guild; anywhere else, their home is among the 

shadows while their presence is felt everywhere. 

Sources: The northern province is almost totally 
uninhabited as per the Serpent s centuries-old 
orders, and this provides him with a powerful level 
8 source for magic. 

Regency G en ekaied/Accu ml: lated : 

21/100 RP, plus an added 30 RP/tum from vassals 
and 25 EP/tum from the Society of the Serpent's 
scattered holdings and influence. 

Gold G eNERATED/Accumulatedi 10/35 GB t and 
an extra 15 GB/turn from vassals. 


Army: The Serpent s army is 10 units strong, contain 
ing 6 infantry units, 3 elite units of Serpent Guards, 
and a unit of artillerists. In addition, the Serpent's 
navy has a complement of 4 dhows, 8 Serpent galleys* 
and 5 dholiras, all complete with full crack crews, 


Regent: The Serpent 

LIEUTENANTS: Little is known of Ekila, the Voice of 
the Serpent (FKh/P2/?/N). She seems to have given 
over her entire identity to the service of her master. 
Everything she says is attributed to the Serpent, 
though it is unlikely that they have some sort of 
telepathic bond. Likewise, Ekila does not seem to 
be dominated by the Serpent-she serves him for 
other reasons. She is the youngest of the Serpent's 
inner circle, but is accorded a great deal of respect 
despite her youth. 

Thatio, the High Son of the Serpent 
(MKh/P6/VolO/LE), runs the Sons of 
the Serpent cult and is dominant 
in its priestly hierarchy, He 
and his clergy control 
much of the day-to- 
day business of 
the Serpent s 





be troubled by these petty concerns of mundane, 
mortal life," 

Thalias Sons of the Serpent worship the Serpent 
completely, and they are rewarded for their devo 
tion. They make up the SerpenLs ruling bureau 
cracy* and those that progress in the priestly arts 
can cast up to 5th-level priest spells. Of course, 
those who violate the Serpent's or Thatio's rules of 
order and compliance find themselves serving their 
god in another way-human and dcmihuman sacri 
fice are common punishments on the Serpent's Isle. 

Important NPCs: Darius Asparta ( MKh/T13/ 
Br23/NE) is the native Masetian leader of the Soci 
ety of the Serpent, the deadliest guild of assassins 
and thieves along the Bair el-Mehare and beyond. 
He is a master of poisons, which is how he came to 
his position of power He secretly plots to slay his 
master the Serpent, but delays for fear that he may 
be found out. He continues to plan, though, and 
waits for the right time to strike. 

Domain DESCRIPTION; The Isle of the Serpent is a 
lush T warm island covered with mountainous 
forests* steep gorges and waterfalls* and the over 
grown remains of the fallen Masetian Empire, 
Aside from the Serpent's worshipers, there are no 
people of Masetian descent throughout Cerilia, In 
decline as a sea power, the Masetian culture and 
people died out roughly 500-600 years after the 
destruction of Mount Deismaar and the last and 
greatest outing of the entire Masetian fleet. 

The ruins of the Masetian Empire are high in the 
mountains as well as just outside the city of 
Masetium. Rumors oflosl treasures and ancient 






magics lead many to explore the mins all over the 
island, and hidden traps and other dangers still 
active after a thousand years claim the lives of 
most such fortune-hunters. With the bulk of the 
population limited to the southern half of the 
island, many of the former roadways, buildings, 
and small outposts of the Masetians have become 
lost amid the rapid growth of the jungle. What was 
once a center of learning 1,400 years ago is now a 
vine-wrapped ruin and home to a wide variety of 
large apes. Folk also talk of various creatures that 
wander the northern jungles of the island, from 
wandering ghosts of bygone days to giant vampire 
hats or invisible apes. 

Domain Capital: Mas et him; This city* is built over 
the ruins of the earlier seat of the empire, and the 
Serpent's palace h one of the few surface buildings 
that survives intact from the days of empire. 
Under the palace and the city are miles of labyrin 
th irie tunnels and dungeons that the Serpent now 
uses as his lairs rather than occupy the above 
ground structure, which houses his lieutenants and 
guards. 


Enemies: The surrounding isles of Ghamoura and 
Suiriene have kept the Isle of the Serpent and his 
fanatical populace under close scrutiny for cen 
turies now, While the Serpent is one of the least 
active of the awn shegh lien, residents of his two 
closest neighbors say it's only a matter of time 
before he (or his servants, in his name] goes on a 
rampage. Both countries maintain small naval 
forces in addition to normal trade vessels to protect 
their coasts against the Society of the Serpent's 
raids, 

A P 

Special Conditions: Many mainlanders believe 
that the Serpent s hulk and fierce fighting capabil 
ities have dulled its wits, turning it more into a M j 

true snake. However, when in human or human 
oid form, the Serpent is one of the most meticu- * 
lous and fax-sighted planners this world has 
ever seen. While many Anuireaus quake at the 
multilayered intrigues of the Gorgon, the V 
Serpent's plans and strategies are best 
described as coils within coils within coils, 



w 



Domain Towns: C a Ilian a 

Trade Goods: The Serpent does not import or 
export any goods to or from the island. 



Allies: None 






















the siren 

iven the known power of the Siren s voice, 
our team of sages found it rather odd that 
she would not speak with them, but the 
facts about the Siren have always been 
cloaked. All that was previously known about her 
south of the Aelvinnwode was that she was a lovely 
woman from Talinie who had the power to charm or 
destroy with her voice. The following testimony was 
apparently written by the Siren herself and deliv 
ered to our sages to place within this test. 

"My true name is Jerusha Fjoldan, though my title 
and power ts that of the Siren. All throughout the 
early part of my life, l wanted only one thing-to 
sing, 1 was orphaned at birth-found crying, I am 
told, in a derelict cabin in the Aelvinnwode just 
north of the Black River-but I was raised well as 
the daughter oi a merchant and his wife in Nowel- 
ton, My early years were uneventful, spent mostly in 
childish pursuits, though I always enjoyed and 
excelled at singing, 

"'On the day of my fifteenth birthday, we were 
visited by an old friend of mv father-a half-elf 
man named Jobhel, Alter hearing me singing softly 
while preparing dinner, he made us an offer, Job 
hel ran a traveling show that went from town to 
town in Talinie, Boeruine, Taeghas, and Tuornen, 
and, after some study, he wanted me to join them 
as a singer of tales and ballads. With my parents' 
blessing, I joined JobheTs Illustrious Minstrels 4 
Consortium. 

"Within months, 1 learned every song in Jobhels 
repertoire and performed with the troupe at way- 
sides, in taverns, at circuses and fairs, and even 
/ out of our own wagons under the stars. While 
\ we were hardly famous and even less rich, 

everyone thought it was a wondrous time. 
Until a fateful night near Chalktop Hill in 
central Talinie, all was well within the 
Minstrels' Consortium, 
i kr We had camped for the night in 
the woods, but I was restless. 
The clear summer skv beck- 

rW_ I / * \ * 

}y t ; 1 oned to me. 1 roamed by 

myself, not expect 
ing danger 


for none of us had ever heard of 
trouble within this part of the woods, jobhel 
had mentioned that he knew of some nearby 
ruined elven towers, and he planned on showing 
them to us the next day. 1 came upon such a ruin 
in my walk, finding an old tower with a hooded fig 
ure leaning against it and looking directly at me! 

M To this day, 1 curse my boldness and wish 
dearly to change what happened! hut 1 stood my 
ground that night, curious to find a person in 
these rutns. He threw back the hood of his cloak, 
and his perfect features and broad smile drew me 
forward. Then he began to sing. It was the most 
beautiful, haunting, and powerful ballad I had 
heard, and it was in a tongue I did not know but 
somehow understood. The singer sang of sorrows 
of loss and the hope to rise again from defeat, and 
I began to cry in sympathy. The stranger dried my 
tears and began another song, an elven ballad of 
which I had heard only pieces before. Without a 
thought, I began singing along, even the parts I 
did not know before, astonishing myself and 
amusing my partner with our perfect harmony. 
The night went on forever, it seemed, and ! sang 
better than I ever had before. To this day, I 
remember the melodies perfectly, but the words 
are lost, blurred by the veil of memory. 

"The last thing I remember was my partner lean 
ing over me and staring deep into my eves. He 
spoke, for the first time not In song, and his voice 
was rich and powerful as he said; 'My darling 
woman, you know not what legacy lies within you. 
There is power to be awakened, and that power is 
song. Your father learned well from me, and you 
too have learned my song this night. We will never 
meet again, but song shall always bind us 
together,' My next memory was awakening at sun* 
rise at the camp with no recollection of having 
traveled there. 

*T said nothing of that night, but when I next 
took the stage, I chose a song I learned from the 
stranger. Singing to a group of woodsmen at their 
camp. I felt a spark ignite within my heart and 
grow to crescendo with the song, My audience and 
friends all sat as if charmed. When I hit the high 
note of the song, my song became a furious force 
of energy, killing many who heard the devastating 
sound! 

*1 fled from that carnage, little realizing until later 
what had caused such destruction. Luckily, a few 
survived hearing my fledgling Siren's Song, but they 
organized parties to hunt me down, and I had to 
flee. Every time I tried to speak, the 














sound of my voice would 
cause the utmost destruction* 
preventing me from speaking in my 
defense. So* I ran and continued to run 
for months* heading north, then following the 
coast along Tad Firth west and north until I 
reached the farthest point west on Cerilia-an iso 
lated area devoid of people who would hound me for 
what I had done, 

"As 1 made my way toward a secluded cabin I had 
spotted from a nearby hilltop, 1 heard the sounds of 
battle* I crept around a snow-covered pine to see 
what was happening* w hen lour small children burst 
through the branches and barreled into me in a 
panic, followed soon after by their pursuers-two 
gnolls brandishing axes. Forgetting my need to 
remain mute. 1 screamed at the gnolls to stay away 
from us. There was little left of either gnoll or two 
surrounding trees after my power tore them all 
apart with surprising force, 

"Collecting myself and leaving the children hid 
den beneath another tree's branches* I faced yet 
more attackers. My power and spirit built up to rag 
ing. The children's parents were set upon by three 
more gnolls led by a dark-skinned awnshegh I later 
learned was the Dusk Man: a thief* marauder* and 
creature of power who had tormented the folk ol 
Svinife and Halskapa for years. Flush with rage and 
power* 1 sang a battle hymn that sent out waves of 
force and killed the advancing gnolls almost 
instantly* The Dusk Man weathered the tury of my 
song, however, closing with me and forcing me 
down into the snow, 

"Though in pain from my song* he clamped his 
hand over my mouth, recognizing my powerful blood 
ability. He swore he would claim it upon my death* 
While he ranted about my being tainted by Azrags 
touch hut remaining so pure. I pulled my dagger and 
stabbed him. Energy spilled out of him as I 
watched the light drain from his eyes, and 1 
felt a rush of power rise within me. 

My slaying of the Dusk Man 
and protection of an inno 
cent family gave me 
power to mitigate 






















but not cancel my Siren's Song, and it 
also gave me many loyal friends who have 
awarded me a crown to rule them-1 do not rule 
or use power to conquer, only to protect those who 
wish to be left atone. 'That Is the Sirens true wish." 


Upon further investigation of the incidents men 
tioned above, we have concluded that this story is 
truthful and sheds new light on the awnshegh 
known as the Siren. Unfortunately, no one can con 
firm or find who Jerusha's mysterious mentor and 
stranger was, though some colleagues suggest that 
she slipped into the Shadow World for the night and 
was corrupted by one of the evil denizens of that 
realm. Minor magical examinations reveal that 
Jems ha's unknown parents had the blood of Azraf 
which is responsible for her power. 

In Jerusha s flight north after her power emerged, 
she caused a number of smaller, local disturbances 
(accidentally destroying a bam with a cough, creat 
ing a crater in the forest of western Thurazor with a 
shriek, slaying an entire goblin tribe, etc.). When 
word of the Dusk Man's death spread, she found 
herself attracting a large following. Several months 
later, the people appealed to her to be their ruler, 
and she accepted, if only to have a secure place to 
five and use her power to protect those few friends 
she made here. 


With the help of seven advisors, the Siren, as 
Jerusha was called due to her power laid down a 
loose set of laws, levied moderate taxes, and started 
work on reconstructing the stronghold of the Dusk 
Man to become her home. Within a year, Siren's 
Cry was completed and the small peninsula soon 
became known, as it has for 27 years now, as the 
Siren's Domain. 

A year after the Siren's arrival, Halskapa sent a 
company of 50 soldiers and dignitaries to Newton or. 
the domain capital. They falsely petitioned for a 
lasting peace: the only power that kept Hah 
skapa away before was the Dusk Man, and 
they believed they could claim large por 
tions of land from this untried 
woman in return for a nonag 
gression pact. The con 
tempt and spite the 
Halskapans had 
for her bind 
those she 
ruled 





was maddening to the Stren. though she and her 
advisors held firm. 

During their stay at Siren's Cry the Halskapans 
attempted to slay Jerusha and her advisors in a 
bloody coup. She destroyed them all in a furious 
display of power. To this day, no Halskapan has ever 
walked the halls of Siren's Cry, nor has any great 
attempt been made to annex the small territory by 
military force. 

Intelligence; 16 

Activity Cycle: Day 

DIET: Omnivore 

Alignment: Neutral 

Movement: 12 

Size: 554' tall 

Armor Class: 6 

Hrr Points; 48 

Saves As; F6 

THACO: 15 

No. of Attacks: 1 

DAMAGE/AnACK! Id4 (dagger) 

Special Attacks; Siren's Song 
Special Defenses: Nil 
MR: Nil 
Morale: 12 

Blood; Minor (Azrai) 29 

Blood Abilities: Divine Aura (Major). Healing 

(Minor), Regeneration (Major) 

XP Value: 5,000 

The Siren cannot speak at all without loosing her 
Siren s ioug, a powerful blast of sound and force 
shaped like a cone 100 feet long in a 90° arc in front 
of her All creatures in it must make a saving throw 
vs. death magic, while objects need a saving throw 
against crushing blow. .Anyone outside the area of 
effect hears a high-pitched blast but is not harmed 
by it. Living beings who fail their saving throws are 
subject to 3d 10 points of damage, but damage is 
halved with a successful save. Physical objects 
either survive the Sirm's song with a successful save 
or are blasted to pieces by its fury 

The Siren's other blooded abilities manifested 
more recently, after the power she assumed from 
the Dusk Man gave her slight control. By hum 
ming various tunes, Jerusha can use her 
other listed abilities* While 



many believe she has much more power than exhib 
ited. she and many sages believe that the bulk of 
her power keeps her Siren 's song from overwhelming 
hen 

The Siren and Radnor, her chamberlain and one 
of her chief advisors, developed a complex scries of 
hand signals so Jerusha could directly communicate 
with her advisors despite being effectively mute. 
Anything of great detail is written out, and the 
library at Siren's Cry is filled with an elaborate col 
lection of documents (and many songs) written by 
the Siren. 

Realm Name: The Siren's Realm 
Location: South of Halskapa 
Status: Not available for PC use 
Alignment: Neutral 
PROVING ES/HOLDl NGS: 

- 4 - 

Province Law Temples Guilds Sources 

CallanLirs (2/4) Sr (2) - Can (2) - 

Dantier Island (1/6) - - BA(1) - 

Gigha(2/5) Sr (2) - Wis (2) - 

Newtonor (3/3) Sr (2) CTN (2) Can (2) - 

Pori Helen (1/4) Sr(2) CTN(l) Wisfl) - 

Abbreviations: Sr=the Siren; Can-Cann<xk; BA=Ban- 
nier Andien (Andien and Sons): CTN^Coastal Temple of 
Nesirie (Abrek); Wis-Wisbeck 

- -0 - 


Law: The Siren controls all the law holdings 
within her domain through her militia and the Elite 
Guard. 

Guilds: While the Siren taxes the people to main 
tain the Elite Guard and pay the militias, much ot 
the commercial and mercantile power is in the 
hands of Cannock and Wisbeck, two of her advisors 
and the owners of the primary trade fleet and the 
shipbuilding company that made the fleet. 

Sources: All the magic is currently uncontrolled, 
though three of the Siren's advisors are looking into 
tapping the power of their rough land to further 
defend itself against Halskapa. 

Temples: There are two temples within the 
domain, which have been built since the Siren took 
power; both are dedicated to Nesirie, and the high 
priest is one of Jerusha's closest confidantes outside 
of her advisors, Ahrek j/P9/Nel4/NG). Aside from 
the two temples at Newt on or and Port Helen, 
there are only small personal or familial shrines 
to Erik and Voiynn dotting the domain. 
















Regency Generated/Accumulaxed: 16/20 RF 
Gold GeneraesVjIcclmulcted; 8 GB/2 GB 



, IE 


Army: The Siren has a loosely organized army 
assembled from among her sparsely populated 
provinces, consisting of some heavily trained Rjurik 
soldiers (known as the Siren's Guard) and levied 
irregulars from the outlying provinces. Included 
with their statistics are those for the individuals who 
reside with her in her stronghold at Newtonor: 


Advisory Council (7): Int 17-18; AL LN or N: AC 
8; HD 1 or 2: hp 6 or 12: THAC0 20; #AT I; Dmg 
ld4 (dagger); Save FI; SZ M (6' tall): MV 12; ML 
18; XP 35 or 65/ea. 

Elite Guard (75); Int 12-15; AL LN; AC 4; HD 
F2; hp 18; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8: SZ M (S' 
tall): MV 12; ML 16: XP 45/ea. 

Irregulars (200): Int 9-11; AL LE; AC 6; HD Fl- 
1; hp 4; THACO 20; #AT 1: Dmg ld6; SZ M (6' 
taU); MV 12; ML 12: XP 15/ea, 

Militia Leaders (5): Int 17-18; AL LE; AC 0; HD 
F4: hp 32; THAG0 16; #AT 1: Dmg IdS: SZ M (6 1 
UU); MV 12; ML 18; XP 175/ea. 

Household Services (12); lot 8-12; AL N; AC 10; 
HD 0; hp 2; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld2 (tools); 
Save FQ; SZ M (5 W tall); MV 12; ML 8-10; XP 
7/ea. 


Regent. The Siren 


Lieutenants; Hie 
members of the Advi 
sory Council help the 
Siren make all deci 
sions, though the final 
word is hers even tf all 
disagree with her So 
far, the Siren has lis 
tened to them and 
considered 



their words. The members' names are 
Birkenhead, Cannock. Hanley, Radnor, 
Thorpe, Wisbech, and Wolds, 


3 ' . 




Important NPCs: Hie five militia 
leaders, Bardsey, Go van, 
Hugh, Ryde. and 


g - 


Shanklim are the pri- 

'rT 

mary military 
minds of 


jMiliP 


w 


\ J I: 




88 


domain. All former members of the 
Elite Guard, they act as constables, policing the 
domain and helping lead the army in war* All are 
older, patient men and serve the Siren with respect; 
Cavan's family was saved from the Dusk Man by 
the Siren, and he and his sons will defend her with 
their very 7 lives. 

Hie Captain of the Elite Guard is a burly, honor 
able man named Rolf junnarson. He keeps the 
Guard and its equipment in peak shape, ready to 
repel attacks on Siren's Cry at any moment. He 
hoped that this would help him gain the affections 
of his ruler, but he realizes he has lost her to another 
(whom he now jealously plans to murder). 


Domain Description: The Sirens Domain is a rela 
tively happy place to live. Many of her citizens are 
here to avoid persecution in other countries, or they 
simply like the hardy life the stormy coast has to 
offer. Little more than a collection of insular towns 
and fishing or hunting villages, the Siren s Domain 
is perfect for those seeking quiet and solitude. 

The windswept hills and rocky cliff-ridden coast 
line that form much of the domain are harsh terrain 
for living, even in midsummer. The Rjurik folk who 
have dug out meager Lives here are grateful for the 
protection of the Siren and are glad to be free of the 
oppression of the Dusk Man, but most have few 
concerns about the politics of whoever has the 
throne. They worry more about feeding and housing 
their families through the winter. 


Domain Capital: Newtonor 
Domain Towns: Callanlars, Faikart 
DOMAIN Villages: Arkaig, Clvden, Gigha, Grange 
mouth, Port Helen 

Special LOCATIONS: Miere Rhuann, Siren Peak 
Trade Goods: The Siren currently has a solid sea 
trade route set up between Port Helen and Dantier 
Island, and a trade triangle with Dantier and Nowel- 
ton In Talinie, The Siren exports crafts, arms forged 
by the master smiths in Newtonor and Grange 
mouth, and various herbs and fish. Imports include 
Talinien goods and rare seaweed from Dantier that 
Is a spell component for an improved divination 
spell used by some of the Siren's advisors* 



Allies: Dantier Island operates solely as a trading 
partner and offers little aid as a mihLary or political ally 


Enemies: Due to the incident over 20 years ago, 
Halskapa is an enemy in all but name. 


m 





Officially, Halskapa is deemed a reluctant ally, held 
in check by fear of the Si ren using her power against 
it. Superstitious Halskapans actually believe she 
could decimate the city of Odemark from the walls 
of Siren's Cry Should they gain a chance to remove 
the Siren, Halskapa would overrun the domain 
swiftly and decisively. This, of course, is understood 
and guarded against by the Siren at all times. 

Special CQNprnoNS; Newtonor is the largest of the 
settlements in the Siren's domain, and it is the main 
trading port for all the provinces. Many mines in the 
hilts of the domain smelt their ores close to the 
mines and travel to Newtonor with raw metals to 
trade to the noted blacksmiths for forged weapons 
and tools. Over half of the domain's people live 
either inside the city or within three miles of its cen 
ter, the citadel called Siren's Ciy. 

Sirens Cry, to the surprise of some, is not a high 
castle like those in Anuirean lands, but a large 
three-story stone villa surrounded by a stone wall; 
two stories extend below ground to provide bar* 
racks for the guards, prisons, and storehouses. 
Should any danger come to the domain, the peoples 
best place for protection would be Sire ns Cry. 

Set on the large island off the mainland from 
Newtonor, Grangemouth is the shipbuilders' port, 
sporting a tall lighthouse that is the pride and joy of 
its citizens. The lighthouse brazier at Newtonor is 
kept lit at all times during the autumn and winter, 
when the Sea of Storms is at its worst. On clear 
nights, the light from the Grangemouth tower can 
sometimes be seen on Dantier Island. 

The Advisory Council is quite pleased with, one 
recent development 4 . The Siren has fallen in love 
with a recent arrival to her domain. His name is 





Dhaelrik, a 
wandering 
ranger of 
Rjurik 

blood. Little 
else is 
known of 
him. and the 

Siren is refusing to allow the advisors or others to 
badger him with questions. What little can he found 
out about Dhaelrik is that he worships both Nesirie 
and Erik, and he has spent much of his time adven 
turing in the Blood Skull Barony. His reasons for 
arriving in the Siren's domain are as yet unknown. 

There is a 
mysterious 
mountain at 
the southern 
tip of die 
outer island, 
dose to 
lesser isle of 
Gigha. 


through the 
peak; 

wind blows 
through it 
certain times, 
a high-pitched 

cry is heard for miles. Long before Jerusha was even 
born* this mountain bore the name Siren's P 
though some superstitious folk claim the mountain 
called to her and that is what brought her here. 



89 




























































& 








the sphinK 

I was hunting somewhere near the Tarvanian 
Hills. I was searching for the lost great cats 
that reportedly killed wantonly and crept 
into pole-houses to attack women and children. 
They were believed extinct, but I knew better, ! 
could feel in my heart they still prowled the savan 
nah. and I wanted to hunt one and bring it down. 1 
had something to prove, but wouldn't admit that 
for the world, I wanted to search the plains for 
one, sight it with my bow and kill it before it did so 
to me, f was in touch with my primitive self, and it 
made me feel more alive. My friends told me 1 was 
crazy with a death wish but they didn't under 
stand. I didn't want to use my magic-for 1 was a 
spelkaster-but the instruments of our ancestors 
to prove the cat's mortality 

"The savannah is a big place. It stretches far 
beyond the horizon and it ail looks the same: soft, 
rolling hills with a few twisted trees to break the 
monotony, and these trees were my only hiding 
place, I stealthily made my way up to one of these 
trees, threw my bow over my shoulder and started 
my ascent, 1 climbed about 10 feet when l grabbed 
a tuft of hair, My heart sank as I looked up in time 
to have a huge forepaw slice my face. It caught me 
below and through the left eye and I fell, landing on 
my back with a huge savannah cat leaping upon me 
with unsheathed fangs and daws, 

M I don't recommend being mauled by daws and 
torn bv fangs, nor do t recommend having your 
skull crushed by the canines of a large predator. The 
feeling is indescribable, as 1 was mysteriously still 
cognizant and feeling every bit of this in the worst 
way. As the beast chewed and swallowed my dead 
body, 1 still retained consciousness. I remember the 
warmth of its stomach, the pounding of the beast's 
heart, and an odd clarity as my consciousness 
finally came to rest in the creature's brain. 

"For the first time, 1 saw from the great cats' point 
of view. The colors were dull, muted, and grey but my 
ability to detect motion and heat were uncanny 1 
don't know how it happened, but my awareness over 
powered that of the lion that originally bore this body 
and had consumed my own flesh. When 1 saw the 
delicious irony of it t the savannah heard for the first 
time the sound of a lion s laugh." 

The Sphinx originated from the happenstance 


coalition between a lion and a human named Danil 
the Inquisitive. The Sc rafts of the Tainted , an 
Anuircan collection of scrolls with information on 


the awnsheghfien as they were seen decades ago. 
tells a version of the Sphinx's origin that differs 
slightly from the above interview. The scrolls state 
that Danil the Inquisitive was on a exploratory 
mission to determine if the muchTeared savannah 
cat was extinct or not. For decades, the domain of 
Zikala tried in vain to kill off the savannah cat and 
prevent the loss of any more of its peoples to their 
savage appetites. Only in recent years did it 
appear successful, Ztkalan provincial leaders 
wanted to determine if any cals still prowled their 
lands and the nearby domains, so they sent a num 
ber of sages into the wilderness to find the cat. if it 
still existed, and direct where hunters could return 
to destroy them. 

This account makes it appear that Danil was 
there only as an observer, not as an antagonist If 
this is true. Danil probably wouldn't have been 
attacked, since the savannah cat is not known for 
its attack on humans and elves without provocation 
(rabies, charm spells, and other mental-debifitative 
effects notwithstanding). 

Tbeocrats of Mystical Forces, a tome of large 
parchments within a heavy leather-wrapped 
wooden cover and bound in iron, is a wellspring of 
information on magic and blood abilities (and the 
awnsheghlicn). The original book rests in the tower 
ol Khufti the Mad, a wizard long believed dead, 
though something keeps people out of his tower in 
the city of Zikala. There are copies of every section 
of the book all over Cerilia, though only five sages 
have access to the complete text. It gives a small 
account of the Sphinx gained, as the book 
statesjrom a telepathic link engaged several years 
ago: "A strange duality existed within the Sphinx, An 
intelligent, knowledgeable being was the vanguard 
consciousness, but a primitive, violent, savage, and 
instinctive force waged a mild but constant war 
against the more civilized mind, Tills conflict often 
forced the intellect into submission and made 
die Sphinx prone to fits of anger and rage dial 
resulted in catastrophe and death for those 


around him." 

The violent side to the Sphinx's 
temper is also documented m 
the Scrolls, of the Tainted. An , / \ 

account by a now- ^ h * 

deceased Khinari <* . 


Jtr 


negotiator states > 
"We had 





never seen such a horrible display in 
all our lives, The awnshegh drew itself into a 
red-eyed frenzy of wrath when we refused to give it 
the concessions it asked for. The Sphinx grabbed 
our lead negotiator and removed her head from her 
shoulders with nary any trouble, It threatened war 
far more savage and as deadly than you can ever 
imagine' and came forward as though to kill us all 
We had no choice but to concede to its demands, 
[ Unfortunately, our leaders reneged on these agree 
ments several months later and lost three counties 
in the process as a result.)" 

This reference pertains to a short-lived skirmish 
along the border between the Tarvan Wastes and the 
Domain of the Sphinx. This battle saw the defeat of 
the Tarvan s Rioters and the loss of three counties to 
the Sphinx. This battle is known as the Camegaua 
Resolution in the Sphinx's domain, and as the 
Carnegauan Massacre nearly everywhere else. The 
people in the Tarvan Wastes will not allows this 
atrocity to continue for long. War is inevitable. 

Intelligence: 37 
Acnvrnr Cycle: Day 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: Neutral evil 
Movement 24 
Size: L ( 9 * long) 

Armor Class: 2 
Hit Points: 84 
Saves As: W12 
THACO: 9 
No. of Attacks: 3 

Damage/Attack: Bite (2d8); Claws (2d6/2d6) 
Special ATTACKS: Control Cats, Roar ? Spells 
Special DEFENSEsfNil 
MR: Nil 

Morale: Elite (17) 

BLOOD: Major (Azrai) 47 

Blood Abilities: Bloodform (Great), Charm Aura 
(Great), Create Fear (Major), Divine Aura 
(Major), Regeneration (Great) 




m 


jf 
Rsit 

h 


First, the Sphinx's huge paws make such a 
lethal assault they can IdU an average man 
with a single swipe. This attack form can 
be made once per round and involves 
a double-strike with both paws. 
This attack affects its target 
like a vorpa/ blade attack, 
severing limbs with a 
solid hit. The 
Sphinx 




/ 




N 


P 


92 


rarely uses this attack, 

hut if he does, he often removes his 

prey's legs to immobilize them. 



Second, the Sphinx has a unique ability to mur 
and use the abilities of fear and divine aura against 
any creatures within 200 yards (saving throw' vs. 
wands or face the effects of either particular blood 
ability). In addition, anyone within 30 feet of the 
Sphinx when he uses his war power falls over unless 
it is a large creature (8 or taller) and needs to make 
a successful saving throw vs. breath weapon to 
avoid falling unconscious for ld6 rounds. 

Third, the Sphinx's form has shifted slightly more 
toward humanoid form within the past few decades, 
and he can now cast spells as if he were a 12lh-Level 
wizard again, These spells are those commonly 
memorized bv the Sphinx, 

1st-Level: charm person, detect tnagic , hypnosis, 
magic missile 

2nd'Level: ESP, know alignment, ray of enfeeble- 
mem, web 

3rd-Levek (SrebaU, hold person, lightning bolt, non- 
detection 

4th-Level: fire shield , monster summoning If poly 
morph other, stoneskin 

5th-Level: cone of cold, false vision, monster sum 
moning ILL wall of force 

6th-Ievel: mass suggestion 

Finally, the Sphinx's other power is the ability to 
control any and all types of felines, from domesti 
cated cats to lions. This power works as a combina 
tion of the charm aura and divine attra blood 
abilities, giving the Sphinx an immediate range of 
control of 150 feet. 

REALM NAME: Domain of the Sphinx 
Location: North of Zikaia. East of Binsada 
Status: Unavailable for PC use 
Alignment Chaotic evil 



standing bodyguard of 
elite infantry at Irbouda. 
The Sphinx's progeny from 
both human and leonine mates are a 
mixture of semi-sentient felines that can 


Pro vinces/H o ldi n g s: 

- ? 


Province 

Agradil (2/3) 
Akhada ( 3 / 2 } 

Beir el-Tehara (1/4 ) 
Birbeg (0/5) 
Facessin (0/5) 
Irbouda (2/3) 
Khousahd < 2/31 
Meid Ain (2/3) 
Meid Tarvai (1/4) 
Meid Zhtrgen (3/2) 
Seif et-Avarra (2/3) 
Strife! (3/2) 


Law Temples 

Sxfi) - 

Sx (!) - 


5x(2) - 

Sx (1) - 
Sx (2) - 

Sx(l) - 
Sx (1) - 


Guilds 

Sources 

Sx(l) 

Sx (3) 

-. 

Sx (4) 

- 

Sx (5) 

- 

Sx (5) 

Sx(l) 

Sx (3) 

- 

Sx (2) 

Sx(2) 

Sx(l) 

Sx (1) 

Ada (4) 

Sx (!) 

Sx (2) 

- 

Sx (2) 

Gho(l) Sx (1) 


Abbreviations? Sx= the Sphinx; Ada-Adara of Shoufal (a 
local sorceress of growing power who has managed to 
avoid die Sphinx so far); Gho=the Ghoudaia Coster (local 
trade guild). 

---?- 



speak, albeit in broken sentences, and slightly feral 
humanoids that are intelligent though dangerously 
temperamental. 

They take 
orders from the 
Sphinx (and no j 
one else) and 
are willing to 
fight for The 
cause," but not 
slavishly fight to 
the death. 

All the cats 
below are listed 
as having a 
morale of 20* 
though they will 
not fight to the death. Once death is imminent, the 
beast turns tail and runs from the battle to find a 


Recency G enekatee/Ac CP m u e .Arm : 49/100 RP 
Gold Generaifc/Accumulated; 12/25 GB 

Army: The Sphinx's subjects are cutthroats and 
marauders. If the Sphinx raises a militia, the units are 
treated as if they were irregulars, Gnolls. goblins, and 
human brigands make up the units-four to ten might 
be active at any given time, The Sphinx keeps a 


secure place to rest and lick its wounds* Once 
healed, regardless of the amount of time necessary, 
it returns to the ranks of the Sphinx's army. As an 
army, the cheetahs t jaguars, and leopards fight as 
one unit, as do the great cats. 

Cheetah (50): Int 1; AL N; AC 5; HD 3; hp IS: 
THACG 17; #AI 3; Dmg ld2/ld2/ldB; SA rear 
daws ld2; SD surprised only on a 1; SZ M (4-4 ft* 





93 














long); MV 15, Sprint 45: ML 20; XP 175/ea, 
Jaguar (50): Ini 2*4: AL N; AC 6; HD 4+1; 
hp 25; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg ld3/M3/IdS; SA 
rear daws ld4+1; SD surprised only on a 1; SZ L 
(5-6* long); MY 15: ML 20; XP 42Q/ea, 

Leopard (50); Int 2-4; AL N: AC 6: HD 3+2; 
hp 20: THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SA 
rear claws ld4; SD surprised only on a !: SZ M (4- 
4Vi long); MV 15; ML 20; XP 270/ea. 

Lion (50): Int 2-4: AL N: AC 5/6; HD 5+2; hp 
32; THACO 15; #AT 3: Dmg Id4/ld4/ldl0; SA 
rear claws Id6+1: SD surprised only on a 1: SZ M 
t4&6W long); MV 12: ML 20; XP 650/ea. 

Savannah Cat (25): Int 1; AL N; AC 6; HD 7+2; 
hp 44; THACO II; #AT 3; Dmg ld4+l/Jd4+l/2d6: 
SA rear daws 2d4; SD surprised only on a 1; SZ L 
(S-12 long); MV 12: ML 20; XP 1.400/ca, 

Regent: The Sphinx 

Lteutemants: 

The most direct 
and obvious 
minions of the 
Sphinx are the 
great cats; his 
animalistic 
nature links it to 
these mighty 
predators, and 
no such animal 
can resist the 
awnsheghs 

command. A few rare lions and savannah cats have 
semi-sentience through their association with the 
Sphinx, as do a number of rumored half-human, 
hali'-tion humanoids. Together, the intelligent cals 
are the Sphinx's agents and assassins throughout 
its domain, and the lionme humanoids aid 
him in his ruined capital at Irbouda. 

The only humans with any real 
influence within the Sphinxs 
domain are the khourscti 
alif 7 the Hands of 
the Sphinx. As 
its cat allies 
are not 



capable ol managing his holdings, the khorseti aUf 
control all law and guild holdings in the Sphinx's 
name. Tills small cadre of servants is widely known 
and feared within the domain, but exists only in 
rumors outside its borders. 

Most human or humanoid servants of the 
Sphinx tend to be short-lived: sooner or later they 
displease their master, and his bestial temper 
brings lethal results from his vexation. However, 
the leader of the Jtbourscfi alif, the priestess Tuara 
min Mesire, seems to have some influence over 
the beastly awnshegh and has avoided death for 
some time. She sometimes acts as the Sphinx's 
voice, speaking for the monster. 

Important NPCS: The strongest allies of the Sphinx 
are the Yezdaga gnolls, a savage hand of raiders who 
attack the surrounding Lands from their citadel in the 
Meid TarvaL A powerful witch-chieftain known as 
the Yezd (MM/F6/-/CE} leads them; he is a clever 
war-leader who wishes to replace the Sphinx as ruler 
of these lands, but he is cunning enough to conceal 
these plans from anyone. 

luri Ilyich (MVo/ F7, DrS/-/N) is currently the 
man most hated by the Sphinx. This Vos druid and 
warrior wanders the northern range of the Sphinx's 
domain, challenging his control over the great cats 
with his own spells. His lone war has wreaked havoc 
in the north, leading to a 5.000 gp bounty on his 
head for his death. 

Domain Description: The domain is a range of 
dry, broken badlands-the least hospitable part of 
the entire Bair el-Tehara, The Khinasi domain of 
Irbouda once dwelt proudly here, hut the Sphinxs 
growing power led to its fall centuries ago. 

Few honest people live in the Sphinx's Lands, due 
to both fear of the creature and its bestial subjects 
and a relatively rough environment. The awnshegh 
abides a few hi 11-tribes and herdsmen, and they 
build their settlements with high walls to deter the 
entrance of any great cats. Only the awnshegh T s 
true followers-the felines-are truly at home here* 
In recent years, the Sphinx has augmented his 
armies by pressing more of the hill-folk and 
nomads into service, as well as recruiting 
gnoU mercenaries. 








Within the Sphinx 's domain is a strictly held 
social structure t starting with the Sphinx at the top 
and the humans on the bottom of the social order. 
The exact layers are: the Sphinx, the paw, the slept, 
the purr, and the tuft. 

The tuft is the largest group. It consists of every 
living creature in the Domain of the Sphinx that is 
not feline and has no special skills for the Sphinx to 
exploit. This includes humans and humanoids and 
is the largest caste group. Those in the tuft do not 
have any rights and are often killed without fear of 
punishment 

The purr is the lowest caste group of felines* The 
common cats all reside in this caste, This consists of 
over 92% of the felines, 

The slept caste consists of the upper-class citi 
zenry, Over 7% of the population fits into this caste. 
The few humans in it are business owners, spell cast 
ers, and the khourseti alif 

The paw caste consists of the Claw leaders 
(equivalent to dans or bloodlines among the feline 
inhabitants } and the Sphinx's offspring. Less than 
1% of the felines fit into this caste, 


Domain Capital: Irbouda 

Domain Cities: Akhada* Meid Ain, Seif el-Avarra 

Domain VlUAGES: Agradil, Beir el-Tehara, Birbeg, 

Facessin, Khousaba, MetdTarvai, Meid Zhirgen, 

Serifel 

Special Locations: Adel-Esa Oasis, Dongala 
Oasis, Jalo Oasis, Khaybar Oasis 

TRADE Goods: The Sphinx's people produce few 
goods and barely manage a subsistence survival in 
the harsh environment, The gnolis frequently raid 
surrounding lands, and live quite well on the booty. 
Some raiders sell loot to their neighbors, only to 
steal it back later* 

Allies: The khoitrseii alif, or the Hands of the 
Sphinx, serve the monster by controlling the erratic 
humanoids and brigands of the domain. Most 
Hands are warriors or thieves, but there are some 
priests who worship the Sphinx and the savannah 
cats of the Bair el-Tehara. Since few subjects know 
who may be one of the Hands, they live in fear of 
these agents. 

Other Information: Over the years, the Sphinx 
has been increasing its forays across the Bair el- 
Tareine. Thus, many trade routes across the steppes 
have been abandoned as the awnshegh has made 
them untenable. This threat to the livelihood of 
Binsada. Sendoure. and Zikala lias the three realms 
talking of ridding themselves of the awnshegh by 
any means possible, 

According to a Sendouran traveling minstrel, the 
Sphinx has also undertaken a massive excavation 
effort in the Tarvantan Hills, but the reason for this 
exercise is unknown at this Lime, 






spider 

T he elves are elitists who think they're the 
only beings worthy of the gift of life, Big* 
oted attitudes like that must be extermi 
nated. and I dedicated my life to removing fanatics 
from my land. I became a master of hunting and 
trapping the murderous elves, never allowing them 
to escape with their Jives. The Dark Woods that 
became my home soon was called the Spiderfelf- 
like a spider's web, once you've entered, there is 
no escape, and I was henceforth nicknamed the 
Spiderlord. 

'Though you may recognize me already, I am the 
goblin king TaUQazar As the leader of the greatest 
army of goblins and gnolls to ever scar the earth, it 
is my responsibility to make their voices heard and 
never suppressed, and I have accomplished that, but 
at the expense at my body and my spirit*" 

"How many centuries ago it was I know not, but I 
stood with the so-called forces of darkness at Oeis- 
maar, and 1 and my troops slew our share of nobler- 
than-fhou elves and their comrades. The only time 
our forces faltered was when the world shattered 
about us with the deaths of the gods. Out of that 
destruction. I and a handful of my troops 
survived to return, to our citadel and tend to our 
wounds* Since that time, I've changed mightily. I 


think the gods were 

pleased with my achievements, and 

they spared my life and my people so J could 

continue exterminating the vicious elves. 

"I soon discovered, following that awful day that 
the death of the gods granted me great powers, 1 
started using these abilities to bring my people- 
goblins and gnolls-together into one house, Some 
formerly loyal henchmen turned on me, using power 
of their own they garnered at Deismaar, but mv wits 
and superior power allowed me to slay them and 
claim their power as well* After a few 'examples' of 
what happened to those who turned on TabQazar, 
my plans began to work. Goblin and gnoll worked 
side by side, coordinating their strikes and raids, 
meeting with incredible success* 

- Unfortunately, these successes all came with a 
price, and S paid that price. As 1 used my powers, 
my body started to change, If I didn't use my power, 
the changes ceased but didn't reverse, 1 tried to 
refrain from using my new abilities, but others rose 
up from the ranks to challenge my position, and 1 
was forced to use the powers to retain my station* 
After killing the last subchieftain who stood with me 
at Deismaar, I noticed a great change in power and 
shape-my body was actually shifting to earn me a 
new nickname-the Spider! 






















"After the changes slowed to a crawl, I was no 
longer goblin, but much t much more. I had the mul 
tiple legs and pedipalps of a spider, w T lth my own 
legs converted into spider legs as well. My torso was 
now more 
strongly 
muscled and 
powerful, and 
it sat upon this 
stable frame 
like a proud 
beacon on a 
shoreline, 

My hands 
became daws 
so massive and 
sharp, I could 
trim small 
trees, disloyal 
goblins, and spying elves with a second's effort, I 
control the giant spiders of my woods as easily as I 
command my goblins, and I now literally spin the 
webs of intrigue that gained me the name Spiderlord 
at the beginning, 

"To hear those whining fools in surrounding Anuire 
say I am mad and a corruption of nature makes me 
smile at their hypocrisy. They covet this power; if they 
could have it, they would welcome the changes that 
come with it. I believe it rankles them that they can 
not conquer Tal-Qazar's stronghold.'' 

The Spider is one of the most gruesome-looking 
awnshegh still alive today and the least sane creature 
in Anuire. Its spiderlike frame, its cunning, madness, 
and its abhorrent need to kill elves and anyone who 
stands in its way makes it even more repellent than it 
ever was when it was simply Tal-Qazar the Goblin 
King. The above interview was transcribed over 200 
years ago; it w T as the last civil audience given by the 
Spider before his mind was lost, Certain questions 
and rumors regarding this dangerous awnshegh, how 
ever, have been raised recently. 

A small number of tomes, including one called 
Tkeran's Torment which was recently found in 
Endier, mention the Spider as a corrupt, evil elf 
out to assassinate the Goblin King Tal- 
Qazar. They say Tal-Qazar 
returned from 


Deismaar flushed with 
power and overconfidence 
and he easily fell to the killer's 
knife, During the murder, this 
unnamed elf was invested with the Spider's 
Azrai-tainted blood and energy, and the power 
swiftly shifted him into the form of the Spider as it 
is known today. 

In his research and studies of awnshegh blood 
lines, a scribe named Thesselonius of Bindier dis 
covered a tattered and dry-rotted bundle of scrolls 
in a cave near the Straits of Aerele. The original 
scrolls are preserved, but they are incredibly old and 
fragile-some associates estimate the bundle is at 
least 400 years old-so Thesselonius copied their 
contents into a journal. This transcript is the only 
existing copy of this writing. 

The document, now known as the Aerele Scroll, 
seemed to be a collection of information on early 
shipping and trade along the Straits of Aerele and 
the Gulf of Coeranys, including a few notes on 
where certain ships sank. Its interest to Thesselo- 
nius (and to us) Lies in a short reference to a human 
named Tal-Qazar, the widely accepted original name 
of the Spider. According to this chronicle, Tal-Qazar 
was an avaricious and ruthless spice merchant who 
sailed along the Southern Coast of the continent 
looking for the quickest profit possible. His greed 
caused him to swindle a haphazard magician self- 
named the Impeccable Borderf out of a great sum of 
money and a sizable shipment of herbs and spices, 
The miffed magician retaliated by placing a very 
powerful curse on Tal-Qazar that turned the 
wretched, miserable, and selfish Tal-Qazar into his 
present form as the Spider. 

Other undocumented stories and rumors about the 
Spider attribute just about any ill or bad happen 
stance around the Spiderfell to it: Plagues in Ghoere, 
Medoere, and Roes one are caused by its breath; the 
fishing is bad in the Spider River because the Spider 
fouled it in the spring. Almost as many 
ills are blamed on the Spider as 
are blamed on the Gorgon. 


•v" z .ffioi 






Intelligence: Very (11) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: CE 
Movement: 15 
Size: L (T tall, T long) 

Armor Class: -2 (carapace)/4 (underbelly) 

Hit Points: 81 
Saves As: FI3 
THACO: 7 

No, OF Attacks: 3 (claw/daw/bite) or 1 (web) 
Damage/Aitack: Idl0/ldl0/ld6 (claw/claw/bite) 
Special Attacks: Jump, poisonous bite, web 
Special Defenses: Spittle, regeneration 
MR: 15% 




Morale: 20 (Fearless) 

Blood: True (Azrai) 95 

Blood Abilities: Animal Affinity-Spiders 
(Great), Bloodform (Great), Invulnerability 
(Great), Long Life (Great), Major Regeneration 
and Regeneration (Great) 

XP Value: 14,000 

The Spider is not the most powerful Anuirean 
awnshegh, but it is still a powerful foe. With its spi 
der legs, it can move quickly from side to side, eas 
ily dodging attacks. Its primary attacks are its 
powerful daws followed by the bite of its razor- 
sharp teeth, If the Spider successfully bites an 
enemy, the target must make a saving throw vs, poi 
son at a -2 penalty or die immediately. Successful 
saves prevent death, but the target still takes 20 
points of damage. 

The Spider is able to jump up to 30 feet in the air; 
with a successful attack roll* it can land on a target 
50 feet away, causing 3d6 points of damage. This is 
usually not a combat tactic but a maneuver for 
ambush or escape. 

The Spider's altered body has spinnerets in its tail 
to emit a single strand of web behind it or actually 
The web covers a 40 , x4O'x4O r area 
holds any creatures in that area 
with the effectiveness of a web 
spell. This web cannot be 
burned away, but it dis 
solves afterld20+20 
hours. 
If the Spider's 
life is in seri* 
ous danger, 
it uses a 


f jf i \ . 


spray 

of 



blinding spittle to escape. This can hit three indi 
viduals up to 15 feet away with a successful attack 
roll for each victim, and it blinds them for ld6 
turns. If a save vs* poison is failed, the spittle also 
causes ld6 points of damage after one round* The 
eyes can immediately be flushed with water to pre 
vent the damage but not the blindness. 

The Spider's blood abilities let it regenerate one hit 
point per round, even below *10 hit points. It can also 
regenerate entire limbs; with its invulnerability, it is 
almost impossible to kill* It is said that the Spider's 
death is ensured only by performing the following rit 
uals: Reduce its body to scattered remnants and keep 
them separated; use wood from a dryad's tree to bum 
the pieces of its body; and, after a day of burning, 
extinguish the fire and generously sow the earth 
where the ashes lie with salt, plowing all remains of 
the Spider into now-barren soil Obviously, this series 
of activities is not likely to happen unless someone is 
able to destroy all the Spider's followers-hundreds 
of gnolls and goblins, and thousands of normal and 
giant spiders!-who will all aid their ruler. 

Realm Name: The Spiderfell 

Location: South of Ghoere, north of Diemed. 

STATUS: Not available for PC use. 

Alignment: Chaotic evil. 

Provinces/Holdings: This realm Is only a single 
province. Nearly all holdings within the Spiderfell 
are tightly controlled by the Spider itself. The magi 
cal sources* which tt cannot tap, it jealously guards. 
However, the mage Caine has nonetheless seized 
control of some of the magic. 

Regency Generated/Accumulated: 7/10 RP 
Gold Generafed/Accumuiaxed: - / 20 GB, 

Army: The Spider's armies are feared by all the sur 
rounding realms, since they pillage without cause or 
reason and none can tell where they will strike next* 
Beyond its armies of goblin and gnoll raiders, it has 
a strange control over spiders. No one knows what 
the full extent of this pow r er is T but many believe it 
works like a standard animal affinity blood ability 
over spiders. This phenomenal control over spiders 
keeps the Spider's goblins and gnolls from 
harm by the many poisonous 
denizens of the Spiderfell 






Gnoll Raiders (50) 
Int 5-7; AL CE; AC 5; HD 2; hp 
9; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (Weapon); 
Save F2; SZ L (7 %)' tall); MV 9; ML 11; XP 35/ea. 

Goblins (400) Int 5-10; AL LE; AC 6; HD 1-1; 
hp 4; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (by weapon); 
Save FI; SZ S (4' tall); MV 6; ML 10; XP 15/ea. 

Goblin Spider-Riders (100) Int 5-10; AL LE; AC 
6; HD 1*1; hp 5; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (by 
weapon); SA Ranged weapons-bows (ld6) Save FI; 
SZ S (4' tall); MV 12; ML 12; XP 35/ea, 

Giant Spiders of Spiderfell (100) Int 3-6; AL CE; 
AC 4; HD 3+3; hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8 (bite); Save F3; SZ L (S' diameter); MV 12; 
ML 13; XP 975/ea. 

Note: The mounts for the Spider's goblins are a 
type of giant spider indigenous only to the Spider- 
fell. They act as steeder spiders (see the 
Monstrous Manual tome) for the goblins, 

Regent: The Spider. 

Lieutenants: Two goblins and gnoll s stand with the 
Spider at all times, taking orders from the insane 
awnshegh and translating the ranting into recogniz 
able orders for the troops. This assignment rotates 
among the spider's many minions. 

Important NPCs: Rumors from Ghoere talk of an elf 
assassin, Denin the Mutable, who has infiltrated the 
Spiderfell A master magician, he can alter his shape 
to match his surroundings. He is apparently so good 
at hiding himself that rangers are unable to track him 
or discover his whereabouts. Since no one has found 
this elusive elf, even those interested in helping his 
cause, there is no knowing this story's accuracy. If an 
adventuring parly or team of assassins could ever find 
this elf and gain his thrust, assuming he exists, they 
might discover exactly how he plans on a successful 
execution of the Spider. 

Domain Description: The Spider controls the Spi 
derfell a forest that lies in the midst of the lands of 
Anuire, It's one of the most dangerous, deadly and 
foul forests in all Cerilia, filled with natural pitfalls and 
traps, and crossed by game trails that lead into bogs, 
quagmires, and webs spun by the spiders or their 
monstrous ruler. The forest is filled with spiders, gob 
lins, and gnolls, all ready to do the Spider's bidding. 

Centuries have passed since anyone tried to usurp 
the Spider's position or power; tales that still circulate 
around the campfires do well to keep any insurgents 
quiet. The Spiderfell is a legacy to the Spider's cun 
ning in that it has survived this long among so 
many realms hostile to its existence. 


Domain Capital: The Web 



Trade Goods: The Spiderfell exports nothing. 
Imports include whatever the raiding parties find in 
their assaults 


The 
of 

Roesone, 

Medoere, 
and Diemed 
are all fearful 
of the Spi 
der's power, 
but they do 
not attack 

the Spiderfell itself. They do keep heavily armed 
patrols around the forest when the raiders make 
themselves known outside the treeline, 



Special Conditions: The Web would hardly be 
seen as a city let alone a domain capital* in any 
other land in Anuire, but this settlement of goblins 
is the seat of the Spider's power. Nestled among the 
trees at the center of the Spiderfell the Web is a 
collection of dwellings carved out of the living trees 
themselves, with platforms and huts attached to the 
trees. These dwellings are connected from tree to 







the vampire 


T he Sinister and my battle with it signalled 
both the end and the beginning of my life. 
When I was simply young Britter Kalt* I 
was eager to please those in power, including my 
liege. He requested the aid of any heroes of power 
in ridding his lands of the ravages of an awnshegh 
known as the Sinister, For years, I and my compan 
ions had hunted the lesser awnshegh in Rohrmarch 
and Kiergard* This time, we answered the call and 
faced the abomination in its own lair, 

"It was truly a simple matter to slay the Sinister, as 
it had become powerful but lazy and used to slaying 
foes at a distance. It was unprepared to face one of 
my bravery and strength, for when I closed with it to 
fight with my sword, he quickly fell. Even his mighty 
gaze that turned other men to vapor was ineffectual in 
stopping my killing blow! Finally, I had met a foe wor 
thy of my ability and I had slain it, gaining much of its 
power. As I had been angry beyond belief and par 
tially transformed to mist when I was struck by the 
Sinister's energies, my corporeal form re const!- 
itself in a form that was anger personified. 

I looked around to find that I had 
willing to sacrifice all for the good of 
my liege lord, but he was not willing to sacrifice any 
thing for me, 1 saved his land from the Sinister-I 
performed his regal duties of protecting his people! 
If I was to bear a ruler's responsibilities, I was due a 
ruler's crown. Therefore, I slew my former, unde- 
d and claimed the territory as mine, 

everyone in my domain gains what they 
work for and what they deserve. If they do what I 
deem best for them, they live happy and prosper 
ous lives, I alone know what is best for my 
people, and that is what is best for me." Kalt 
slew the Sinister and became an equally dan 
gerous awnshegh that was soon known as 
the Vampire. While my sages' interview 
with the Vampire was a little sparse in 
detail on its rise to power* recorded 
histories within Kiergard tell us the 
beginning of the tale and a jour 
nal of one of his surviving 
comrades sheds some light 
on the birth of the 
: V R %/' Vampire. 


Approximately 1100 years ago, a 
Brecht warrior named Britter Kalt was honor 
bound to kill the being that slew his father. The 
being that murdered his kind and noble father was 
the Sinister, a three-eyed being of unimaginable 
fright and ruinous power. When his prince 
beseeched warriors to gather and slay the Sinister, 
Britter knew he had to slay the beast in order to 
regain his family's honor and some recognition of 
his own heroism and bravery. 

It took Britter and his companions two years to 
finally locate the location of the awnshegh, as the 
Sinister survived by staying mobile at all times. Brit 
ter became obsessed in his search for this evil being, 
and he was quite ruthless in using every means at 
his disposal to reach his goal and kill the Sinister* As 
he readied himself for the battle at the Sinister's 
refuge in the Vicissitude Mountains, he seemed a 
man possessed and on the verge of madness now 
that his goal of many years was within reach* 

Acromeire, a long-time acquaintance of young 
Kalt and his father and one of his companions on 
the quest for the Sinister* was the only other surviv 
ing member of that expedition. He lived for 15 
years after the encounter, and he penned the only 
written account of Britter Kalt's battle with the Sin 
ister, The excerpt below* in Acromeire's own words* 
gives some startling details about both the Sinister* 
the Vampire that was once Britter Kalt, and the 
effects of bloodtheft, 

Though we had heard stories of the Sinister and 
its malevolent power, we had never seen its effects 
at hand* and only knew we had our mission to slay 
this foul abomination. Britter had stopped talking to 
anyone days before* just after we left the city* and 
there was nothing in his stance or his eyes but burn 
ing hatred. When we arrived at the noisome cavern 
that allegedly housed the Sinister, Britter dashed 
inside immediately without regard for his own or 
anyone else's safely, We were to pay for that. 

T fought alongside the elder Kalt and his young 
son against many evils that terrorized the forests of 
Kiergard, Rohrmarch, and Massenmarch. I was 
never so afraid as when we hastily entered the lair of 
the Sinister, The cold dankness and gloom of the 
cave was heightened by the sight of shattered 
swords, rent shields, and the rotted remains of those 
who came before us. ^ 

"Suddenly without warning or fanfare, it was 
upon us* To this day I shudder as I remember poor 
Runthar, a hearty ranger with a rumbling laugh, 
screaming pitifully as he dissolved into a 
























fog and swirled upward and out of sight overhead. 
As I later found, the Sinister's main power was to 
turn its opponents to mist and absorb them into 
itself for added strength and vitality. All but three of 
us fell to the the deadly gaze of the Sinister, as it 
cattily loomed over us in the darkness of the cav 
ern's high ceiling. When my enchanted arrows 
finally brought it to ground, it was only slightly 
wounded. It managed to knock me out with a back* 
handed slap that sent me into a rock wall. As my 
eyes clouded over, I saw him mercilessly tear our 
wizardess companion to pieces. 

"When I came to moments later, Blitter Kalt was 
toe-to-toe with the Sinister, his magical blade glow 
ing brightly against the gloom and illuminating his 
enrapt face and that of the furious Sinister, The 
awnshegh appeared to have forgotten all others and 
was now bringing his gaze to bear on young Kalt. 
B ritter's legs began to become hazy^and mist like, 
and the Sinister laughed; it was its final mistake, as 
the enraged Britter Kalt buried his father's 
enchanted sword into the cackling creature even as 
his arms lost their solidity, 

"As the body of the Sinister fell to the floor of 
the cave, the mist that was once Britter Kalt was 
inundated with wild energies that exploded 
from the collapsed body of the awnshegh, A 
shriek of agony echoed off the cave 
walls, louder than the crackling 
energy of the Sinister's 
birthright emanations. I 
shielded my eyes 
for but a 
moment, 



102 





and when I looked again, what I saw turned my 
hair white and shook me to my very core. 

"Britter Kalt stood with us once again, but he was 
changed, poisoned by the touch of Azrai's blood 
from the Sinister While he still appeared as Britter, 
his teeth and ears had grown sharp points, his skin 
was like alabaster, and his metal armor was 
replaced by armor made of shadow that glistened 
most unnaturally. I did not know at the time exactly 
what had overcome my young friend, but he helped 
me return to the city and report the Sinisters death 
to the prince. Had I known then what he had 
planned in his obsessive mind, I would have tried to 
slay him myself before we returned. 

"He had seemed a bit distracted on our return trip, 
but I attributed that to a usual reticence after such a 
brutal battle. When we arrived and were granted 
audience with the king, we were offered much gold 
and high honors, Britter ignored all of it and stalked 
up to our ruler; after easily batting away four per 
sonal guards, he executed our helpless ruler, threw T 
his body to the floor, and sat down upon his throne. 
That was the last day the sun shone brightly in what 
is now the Vampire's Domain." 

Intelligence: 14 
Activity Cycle: Night 
DIET: Hemovore (blood) 

Alignment: Chaotic evil 
Movement: 12, FI 32 (B) 

Size: M (654)' tall) 

Armor Class: 2 
Hit Points: 116 
Saves As: F10 
THACO: 11 
No. of Attacks: 1 

Damage/Attack: 3d4 (claws) or by weapon 
Special Attacks: Life draining attack 
SPECIAL Defenses: Darkness, immune to normal 
weapons, 

MR: 15% 

Morale: 18 

Blood: Major (Azrai) 49 

Blood Abilities: Bbodform (Great), Regeneration 
(Minor), Shadow Form (Great), Travel (Great) 

XP Value: 15 t 0GO 


S: 18/00 (+3/+S) Dr 17 C: 20 (+6 hp/levei) 

I: 14 W: 12 Ch: 15 

The Vampire is totally ruthless and has no honor-it 
will do anything to destroy a foe. The Vampire's 
most common attack is its claws, which cause 3-12 
points of damage. If it chooses to wield a weapon, it 
wields it with 18/00 Strength and adds bonuses 
accordingly; its primaiy weapon is the long sword +3 
that slew the Sinister-its once silver-white metal 
has turned black over the years. 

If the Vampire makes two successful attack rolls in 
one round, he inflicts no damage but grabs his target 
and bites its neck. After one round, during which the 
Vampire only holds and bites its prey, the held victim 
is dead, its body a dessicated husk, and the Vampire 
gains one permanent hit point per level or Hit Die of 
the victim. Blooded victims are drained of blood abil 
ities as if he has used a tighmaevrii weapon to slay 
them. Victims can attempt to break free when first 
grabbed (Strength check at -4 penalty against the 
Vampires hold); if still held, they need a successful 
saving throw vs* death magic to resist the Vampire's 
bite* If successful, they only suffer 2d4 points of dam 
age and are stunned for ld6 rounds. 

For defenses, the Vampire's form naturally 
attracts darkness, keeping him in an almost eternal 
twilight. During nighttime hours, the Vampire's 
cloak of shadow grants it a +3 Armor Class bonus 
and a +3 bonus against any light- or vision-based 
attacks and spells. 

The Vampire has batlike wings that fold against 
its back, and can use them only at night; if his wings 
are unfolded outside of his aura of darkness in sun 
light, they begin to burn, dealing Id 12 points of 
damage to the Vampire per turn and preventing him 
from using the wings for ld6 hours* 

Finally, the Vampire's most dangerous ability is 
its combined shadow form and travel blood abilities. 
Unlike the standard forms of these abilities, the 
Vampire can reduce his form to a dark mist three 
times a night or once during daylight. It uses this 
form to flee by transporting itself to the Shadow 
World at any location, creating his own portal with 
this variant power. If used during the day, it cannot 
teleport, only fly slowly (9 Move rate, Maneuver 
ability E) but is immune to attacks of any less than 
+2 enchantments, though spells affect it, 


Realm Name: The Vampire's Realm* 

Location: South of Massenmarch. 

Status: Not available for PC use. 

Alignment: Chaotic evil 

Provinces/Holdings: The three provinces of the 
Vampire's Domain are Bloodshroud (4/3), Lands- 
borough (3/4), and Ruapacht (1/7)* 

Law: The Vampire controls his three generals and 
the armies through them, thus holding all law pow 
ers in his domain. 

Temples: Cults to Haelyn and other gods are grow 
ing in the domain, but the only temples are dedicated 
to Kriestal and AJenecht. All the Vampire's soldiers 
are worshippers there, and the high priest is among 
the Vampire's highest ranking lieutenants. 

Guilds: The Vampire allows his minister of 
finance to control trade and internal taxtation. 

Sources: All magical sources within this domain 
are currently uncontrolled, 


Province 

Law 

Temples 

Guilds Sources 

Bloodshroud (4/5) 

Vp (4) 

A1 (2) 
Kr<2) 

Vp (3) - 

Landsborough (3/6) 

Vp (3) 

Al(2) 

Vp(l) - 

Ruapacht (3/6) 

Vp(l) 

Kr (I) 

Vp (1) - 


Abbreviations: Vp=the Vampire; Al=Black Church of 
Alenecht (Gustaf Kremler); Kr^Tempie of the White 
Hand of Kriestal (Karyana Damov), 

Regency Generated/Accumulated: 16/40 RP 
Gold Generated/Accumulated; 8/8 GB 

Army: The Vampire keeps a standing army within his 
domain to crush any internal dissidence. While it 
might normally equal three units of human infantry 
and one cavalry unit, they are never collected as an 
army to invade other domains or protect the entire 
domain* The units are scattered among the settle 
ments of the domain, keeping nearly every person 
that lives within the domain borders under strict mar 
tial law. The army enforces the implied law of the 
land: The Vampire, your deserving ruler, wishes you 
to be happy. Be happy or be dead* 

The only army the Vampire wields against 
outlying domains is a swarm of bats that he 
commands through the use of a special 
amulet. He only resorts to this tactic if 
he hears rumors of troops massing V * 

against him; he travels through 
the Shadow World to scat 
ter the assembling 
armies, and his bats 
lend additional f . 'f 









-confusion and fear. This warning served him well in 
deterring two campaigns against him. 

Regent; The Vampire 

Lieutenants: The Vampire has three generals who 
maintain the order in his domain by their local con 
trol of the military personnel in each province: Gen 
eral Karl Haasen of Bloodshroud, General Henricht 
VonStaffel of Landsborough, and General Josef 
Bellshauf of Ruapacht. The three men work well 
together, supporting each others actions along 
provincial borders whenever necessary, making 
their efforts successful and bloody 
The high priest of the Black Church of Alenecht is 
Gustaf Kremler (MAw/P 11/Az9)/CE), and he fre 
quently makes trips through each of the 
provinces with the generals, "converting" 
tlje people to the worship of darkness, 
I > Most often, he conscripts the farmers 

¦J and peasants into work on his 

major temple at the capital at 
Bloodshroud. 


v.. •.*, *y r *a: ;• • 

, ' •; 

^ w/ * life! 


1 


104 


JfT}|| 

i lii 


M w.jjni 


¦; 


Important NPCs: Two new champions are gaining 
public popularity though not such widespread pop 
ular support as to bring them to the Vampire's 
notice. These champions hail from Zimmerhaben 
and Ruapacht. 

Zimmerhabens champion, Roe Se'ame, is a 
young woman of fine standing who returned to 
her Zimmerhaben home after a five-year con 
scripted stint in the Vampire's army. She's gath 
ered a small following, mostly the young (25 years 
of age and younger), who are tired of living under 
the tyranny of the Vampire. They want to see a 
ruler who does not wage war and injustice against 
his own people. Landsborough, a town in the 
same province, has been showing signs of support 
for this beautiful champion, who regularly con 
venes dissident meetings late at night in some of 
Zimmerhaben's taverns. 

Ruapacht's champion, Josef Bladesmith, is an 
elderly man in his 70's, an unusual lifespan for a 
human in this area. He wants to change his home 
land from its basis on military might and violence to 
one based on education and knowledge* He believes 
that by creating a land of peace in the midst of the 
current chaos, the domain will flourish and nearby 
provinces from other domains-or even full 
domains-will flock under its banner. 


ft 


Domain Description: The Vampire's domain con 
tains three mountain ranges that cut across the land 
from northwest-to-southeast, Heavy, deciduous 
forests cover the rest of the land. Small pockets of 
cleared land and trails between them allow the few 
towns and villages of this domain to survive. 

The people living in the larger towns and the cities 
are now expanding the land for crops fay cutting down 
the trees and using the timber to build new homes, and 
to continually improve the capital city of Bloodshroud* 
Bloodshroud, though it contains about 2,000 
people, has wood-slat streets, elevated sidewalks, 
and beautifully reconditioned homes and build 
ings; the smell of cedar still is strong. It is a grow 
ing city, despite the oppression of the Vampire's 
centuries-old regime, though what grows quick 
est in it are thoughts of rebellion. These pockets 
of rebellion and their champions, thus far, have 
been suppressed, hut they have yet to be totally 
eradicated, 

Domain Capital: Bloodshroud. 

Domain Cities; Ruapacht, 

Domain Villages: Fielding Bluffs, Landsborough, 
Zimmerhaben. 

Special Locations: Vicissitude Mountains. 

Trade Goods: The Vampire must import at least 
one-third of the consumed food in his domain from 
outside, and much of his trade comes from 
Massenmarch, The greatest export the Vampire 
has is minerals. The unstable Vicissitudes are 
unusually rich in gold deposits, iron, and a suU 
furous mineral called uxoricore. When put in con 
tact with liquids tike water or blood, uxoricore 
heats up very quickly, causing incredible burns to 
anything touching it This deadly mineral is stored 
in ceramic jars far away from the mines. The Vam 
pire uses captured goblins to shape arrowheads 
from this soft ore. When used in weapon construc 
tion, the uxoricore adds 2d6 points of burn damage 
on top of normal weapon damage (no saving throw 
allowed). 

Allies; The Vampire has no allies, though he has sev 
eral domains that ''tolerate" him because of the 
threat they fear he poses. Rumors tell of a 
planned movement to over 
throw Kiergatd, 


but these are unsub 
stantiated. Others talk of an 
alliance with Massenmarch, 
though those dose to the Swordhawk 
laugh at such a suggestion. 


Special Conditions: The Vicissitudes are the 
southernmost mountain range of unstable peaks in 
the Vampire's Domain. In one human lifetime, 
they've expanded, grown, and altered in response to 
great earthquakes reported in Rohrmarch to the 
south. Bloodshroud is a constantly-remodeled, 
beautiful, yet dark town nestled among these moun 
tains that serve as the home of the Vampire. 

Permits for intercity travel are needed wherever one 
goes. Permits are also needed for hunting, fishing, and 
trapping. Anyone traveling the roads (especially at 
night) is stopped and checked for papers. If they're not 
in order, the traveler is immediately incarcerated and 
put to work in the mines by Fielding Bluffs or as the 
labor for the official buildings in Bloodshroud. 

The Vampire has uncovered the dissident Josef 
Bladesmith, but is currently studying the exact 
threat he poses. Rumors state that the Vampire 
plans to crush the life from this frail man only when 
he becomes a true nuisance or when the Vampire is 
in need of a diversion. 

Recently, alchemists and magicians from across 
the land have petitioned the Vampire for permission 
to study the Vicissitudes. This unusual mountain 
range is highly active and these wise men believe 
that many questions regarding nature and its effects 
on magic can-he answered here. The Vampire has 
allowed this, but he charges extraordinary fees for 
''protection" during their stays. This money has 
been most recently used to procure high-quality and 
(relatively) trustworthy mercenaries for deeds 
unknown to all but the Vampire. Little information 
has been made public by these Kiergardian and 
Binsadan sages, 
though news is 

H 

the year, 


% far.** 


expected with 





105 




the white witch 


The White Witch is egotistical and arrogant beyond 
many of the other awnsheghlien. She believes she's 
the best at everything, and to some extent, she's 
As the leader of one of the largest realms 
on the continent, she has some support toward her 
thoughts of greatness. 

She claims to be a great leader, and it s impossible 
to prove this allegation wrong, unless the leader is 
absolutely tyrannical. Some in her realm believe she 
great sovereign, while others disagree. Despite 
split, she has maintained the safety of her sov 
ereign lands. She or her underlings have kept the 
borders clear of invaders for years; in fact, the 
White Witch's forces have expanded into nearby 
domains, on occasion without the knowledge of the 
invaded domain's leaden 

The White Witch is a financial genius. l( one 
considers that she receives very little in taxes but 
manages to wage war and infiltrate guilds in 


I am the White Witch. That is all anyone truly 
need call me. Do not concern yourselves with 
where I come from and from whence I gain 
my awesome powers-only those of the blood of 
royalty and the gods need to concern themselves of 
such things. 

I am the mistress of one of the largest realms in 
all Cerilia and that, in itself, is a great responsibility. 
I am the most beautiful creation on the face of the 
land-that, too, carries with it great responsibility. 1 
must always deal with suitors who feel they are 
qualified to spend their mediocre lives in my pres 
ence, though very few are worthy of such a boon. 

"I am a great leader and my children have never 
felt the invasive forces of an enemy since my uncle's 
weak-spined rule was overthrown. My financial 
genius and my magic have ensured that my children 
have never felt hunger. I am a shrewd arbitrator and 
never lose when it comes to negotiation. I am con 
stantly looking for ways to expand the borders of 
my domain in order to more properly provide my 
children with whatever they need or desire. Soon, 
the entire northern half of this continent will belong 
to the children of the White Witch. For they, and I t 




nearby domains. its frighten 
ing to think of what she could accomplish 
with the monetary diet of a country like Ghoere or 
Mhoried. Thus far t she controls much of the guild 
activity in Hogunmark, Red Skull Barony, and Llu- 
abraight. 

She takes credit for the lack of starvation in her 
country, but she really has no part in feeding her 
people. Most of her provinces contain self-sustain 
ing individuals who sustenance hunt and fish, and 
gather and store food during the warmer months. 
They often sell furs and jerked meats from their 
kills in order to pay the taxes demanded from them. 
These hearty folk also protect their personal lands 
jealously from any intrusion. Often, the arrival of a 
tax collector is considered an intrusion; given the 
retribution associated with the death of an official 
of the domain ruler, few resist the fight taxes, 
though they do not relish them. 

Stories and tales about the 
White Witch are numerous, 
and a number of written 
sources in Anuire and parts 
north and east of it have con 
flicting accounts of who she is 
and what she looks like. The 
only facts that agree across 
most accounts are that she is 
the niece of a usurper jarl 
named Gunnar, though none 
can trace a given birth name 
to her, Upon her ascension to 
rule, she became the White 
Witch. Since ascending to the 
throne, she has emerged from 

her castle at Mandal only twelve times, and only to 
go to war. 

Some talk of the White Witch as the most beauti 
ful woman in personality and form. Standing over 5 
feet tall, she has a long mane of frost-white hair and 
the lithe figure of a young girl, even though she has 
ruled her domain for over 30 years* She reportedly 
prefers elegant silk dresses that ding to her shape 
as clothing. 

Other sources tell a different story of the Witch, 
reporting her to be a very ugly old woman. This dis 
gusting, twisted crone was summarized as being 
highly vindictive, using magic to infiltrate the minds 
of men and to bend their wills to her bidding. 

Both forms are reported to be powerful priestesses, 
though the young, beautiful White Witch is more 
inclined to use items of power, and the crone is more 
apt to use spells. Well, our research has discovered 



that both the crone and the beautiful winter maiden 
are one and the same-the White Witch shows her 
young face and form to her public, and she only 
reveals her twisted, true form to her immediate 
lieutenants and military advisors. 

According to the recently penned Theocrats of 
Mystical Forces (a definitive tome on practitioners 
of magic in Cerilia), the White Witch uses magical 
items and spells of her own device to change her 
appearance. The items can be used to make her 
appear as a captivatinglv beautiful woman. The side 
effect of these items, however, also alter her person 
ality, making her several shades kinder. With this 
benign attitude, she can't negotiate with her usual 
ruthlessness, so she refrains from it. The White 
Witch realizes this fallacy when the items and spells 
are in effect, and she can refuse to negotiate under 
these terms as well. 

When the spells and items are not in effect, the 
White Witch is a shrewd negotiator. When negotiat 
ing a treaty, haggling for hunting or logging rights 
or bargaining in business deals, she's always in 
cloaked in darkness and hid 
den from direct view* Her 
most effective tactic is to 
appear as her young self, flat 
ter guests and negotiators 
over dinner, and excuse her 
self early, but invite a negotia 
tor to her chambers for 
further discussions. Once 
there, she drops her illusions, 
keeping her voice the same 
and hiding behind bed cur 
tains and darkness, and con 
tinues a harsher negotiation 
while her guest is off-balance 
and distracted by the setting. 

The White Witch, in her normal nonillusory form* 
is psychotic and must always get her way. When she 
doesn't, she uses her cfearm aura ability or spells to 
increase her effectiveness. She has grown to rely 
on her charm aura in all her dealings, making 
her extremely successful. When this tactic 
fails (against elves, half-elves, and people -rS. ? 
and awnsheghiien with a natural immu 
nity to charm), she threatens with r 
spells and military mighh in 
hopes of forcing them into 
submission through 
threat of widespread 


harm and curses. 


Idi 


a m 

w 













Without Illusion 

-?-- 

With Illusion 

20 

Intelligence 

20 

9 

Charisma 

19 

Any 

Activity Cycle 

Any 

Omnivore 

Diet 

Omnivore 

Neutral evil 

Alignment 

Lawful good 

12 

Movement 

12 

M (5' 1" tall) 

Size 

M (5' 6* tall) 

3 

Armor Class 

6 

45 

Hit Points 

45 

PI4 

Saves As 

P14 

13 

THAC0 

13 

1 

No. of Aitacks 

1 

By weapon 

Damage/Ahack 

By weapon 

Charm, Spells 

Special Ait 

Charm, Spells 

Nil 

Special Def 

Nil 

Nil 

MR 

Nil 

13 

Morale 

10 

13,000 

XP Value 

__?-- 

13,000 


BLOOD: Minor (Azrai) 20 

BLOOD Abilities: Charm Aura (Major), Heightened 
Ability (Minor), Major Resistance-Charm 
(Great), Persuasion (Major), Unreadable 
Thoughts (Minor), 



The White Witch abstains from physical combat and 
allows her guards to contain and remove any physi 
cal threat to her person. If necessary, she carries a 
small jewelled dagger in an ankle scabbard that's hid 
by her long gowns. She supports her guards by cast 
ing spells, if trouble arises- The White Witch can 
cast spells as a 14th-level priestess of Karesha, and 
: the spells she often receives are listed below, 

IstJevet Bless/curse, command, cure/cause light 
wownds, detect evtl/good, detect magic , invisibility to 
undead, magical stone , protection from evil/good, 
purify/putrefy food & drink, remove fear . 

2nd-leveh Augury , enthrall , fire trap , heat metal 
hold person* resist fire/cold, silence 15 ' radius , spiri 
tual hammer , wyvem watch . 

3rd4evel: Cad lightning , change self, dispel 
magic , feign death t glyph of warding, magical 
vestment , meld into stone, prayer. 
\4tMevel: Cloak of bravery, control 
temperature 10' radius, divination, 
I ,V free action , imbue with spell 

ability, improved invisibil- 
ity* produce fire t 

reflecting pool, 
tongwes. 



5th-Ieveh Atonement, communion, divination, 
plane shift, quest, 

6th-leveh Blade harrier , weather summoning, word 
of recall. 

7th-level: Confusion, enaction, 

Magical Items: The White Witch has one of the 
largest collections of magical items in Cerilia, and 
she uses them to maintain her rule over her large 
domain. 

Wintering: The White Witch always wears one 
item, a ring of artifact status called Wintering. 
Upon her ascension to the throne of this domain, 
the priestess who is now the White Witch was vis 
ited in a dream by Karasha and granted a gift to 
further her power in Cerilia. When she awoke, the 
wintering was on her finger, where it still remains 
today. The ring has the following powers at 12th 
level: 

+ all the powers of a ring of wamtb; 

? Immunity to cold-based damage; 

+ Flash frost, an effect identical in effect to a fireball 
spell but with a wave of cold; 

+ Ice storm , three times per day; and 
+ Weather summoning to call a blizzard, once per 
week. 

The Ring of Beauty: The other most constant 
item she uses is her ring of beauty , which is respon 
sible for her transformation from crone to beautiful 
maiden. Not simply an illusion, but a limited poiy- 
morph self that alters any being to the brink of per 
fect physical beauty. In terms of game mechanics, it 
adds a +8 Reaction bonus for the Witch and +10 
Charisma from the character's normal base score. 
The ring of beauty's only side effect alters the 
wearer's alignment to lawful good and renders the 
wearer incapable of deceit; the wearer is aware of 
the personality change, and can avoid any circum 
stances that might reveal any deception. If the ring- 
wearer wished to steal something or behave in other 
than a lawful or good manner, he or she would have 
to remove the ring. 

Realm Name: Realm of the White Witch. 

LoCATtON: North of Giantdowns, 

Status: Not Available for PC use. 

Alignment: Lawful evil 







Provinces/Holdings: The White Witch keeps a 
firm grip on all holdings in her domain, whether 
controlling the fur trade through taxes or the law 
with her armies. She covetously guards her magical 
sources, though one in Vejle was claimed by a new 
settler there, a Rjurtk mage called Ohlaak the 
Dragon; the White Witch plans on removing this 
usurper soon. Aside from small shrines on the tun 
dra or personal shrines to gods in peoples' homes, 
the only temples in the domain are the grand temple 
to Karasha by the Witch's castle at Mandal, and the 
lesser temples at Oulu and Boden. 


Province 

Bjornoya (1/6) 

Boden (2/3) 

Folda Fjord (1/4) 

Halten (0/7) 

Innherad (0/7) 

Kandalask (1/4) 

Mandal (4/3) 

Nordcapp (0/5) 

Oulu (3/4) 

Pitea (2/3) 

Rovan (1/6) 

Soiling Bank (1/6) WW (1) 
Soroya(l/4) - 

Torne (0/5) 

Vejle (1/6) WW(1) 


Law 
WW(1) 
WW (2) 
WW(1) 


WW (1) 
WW(3) 

WW (2) 
WW{1) 


Temples Guilds Sources 


Kar (2) 


Kar (4) 
Kar(3) 


WW(1) 

WW(1) 


WW(1) 4- 
WW (4) - 

WW (3) - 
WW(1) - 

WW(1) - 


Oh (4) 


Abbreviations: WW=the White Witch; Kar=Great White 
Church of Karasha (the White Witch); Oh=Oblaak the 
Dragon. 


Regency Generotd/Accumulated: 44/20 RP 
Gold Generated/Accumulated: 20/5 GB. 

Army: The Witch Witch's army is split into two 
groups, The first group consists of her personal 
guards, which equal one unit of elite foot soldiers. The 
other group in the army is five units of soldiers. The 
Witch can collect an additional three units of levied 
troops within one month's time in her domain. 

Elite Guard (50): Int 13-14; AL LN; AC7; HD 2: 
hp 12; THAC0 19; #AT tj Dmg IdB; SZ <M 6' tall); 
MV 12; ML 16; XP 65/ea. 

Rjurik Irregulars (500): Int 9-12; AL LN: AC 9; 
HD 1; hp 7; THAC0 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SZ (M 6' 
tall); MV 12; ML 13; XP 35/ea. 

Regent: The White Witch, 


Lieutenants: The Witch has no immedi 
ate lieutenants save her personal 
guard, Captain Haghar, He 
is a mountain of a 
man, and he is 
one of few 
who does 


¦yr 









not flinch from the White Witch in 
either form. Haghar has the respect of his 
Rjurik brethren and is a capable leader, 
though he dislikes the Witch's excesses. He 
loathes the Blood Skull orogs and relishes any 
chance to lead troops over their borders, 

Domain Description: The White Witch's domain is 
a frigid and wind-blown landscape of permafrost 
and sweeping glaciers in the north and tundra in the 
central and southern areas. 

Each county has one fairly-large community and 
at least one other tiny settlement with at least a 
trading post, a lodge that often serves as an inn and 
a tavern, and two or three other buildings for hous 
ing of animals or vagabonds, a slaughterhouse, or 
food storage for the clan, 

Domain Capital: Mandat. 

Domain Cities: Roden, Oulu* 

Domain Villages: Bjomoya, Fotda Fjord, Halten, 
Innherad, Kandalask Cuba, Nordcapp, Pitea, 
Rovan, Solung Bank, Soroya, Tome, Vejle + 

Special Locations: Folda Fjord, Kandalask Guba, 
Solung Bank* 

Trade Goods: The domain's major exports, and 
the only ones widespread enough to merit atten 
tion, are furs and meat. The domain imports grain 
goods from the south, 

Enemies: The White Witch is not on friendly terms 
with any nearby domain, though open hostility only 
crops up during the summer when travel is feasible 
across the northern plains. She plans on annexing 
independent domains that surround her borders 
one province at a time. Over the past 20 years, 
she's been successful at adding seven provinces to 
her domain. 

Special Conditions: A few centuries ago* 
rumors of the existence of a strange 
awnshegh circulated throughout the 
northern realms. These rumors 
claimed that an alluring 
shadow of inky black 
ness flowed across 
the land. This 
darkness 
was the 

^ r. 

*4 •, *-'v' 

¦pip, ^ i + 


uo 


supreme ruler over all it surveyed, and no other 
ruler could dare annex the land. This sable vapor 
would sap the strength and the health from 
whomever it surrounded. The onyx cloud never 
killed anyone outright, but its touch would leave a 
person bedridden for days after contact (3d 10 
days). The people who lived in the area learned to 
avoid the mist when possible. 



Sages still argue over whether these accounts 
were either completely fictitious or not. Those who 
believe these stories now hypothesize that the jet 
mist was cither an early version of the Apocalypse 
or another evil gas form of malevolence. Few think 
that the two creatures are one in the same, as 
accounts and rumors of the effects matching those 
of the Apocalypse have never been reported fur* 
ther north than the Sielwode. Since the appear* 
ance of the White Witch perfectly followed the 
disappearance of the life-tapping cloud, many 
believe she know^s something about it and its with 
drawal from activity. There are those who believe 
the black cloud still exists, but is currently dor 
mant. If this is true, it should be interesting how 
the White Witch and the nearby domains react to 
it when it arises and terrorizes their territories 
anew r after 30 years. 





the wolf 


T he Wolf is a mysterious and shy beast that 
is rarely seen outside its current territory; 
its range of movement is known to change 
with the seasons and the encroachment of elven 
and human settlers, but there has been little change 
in its territory in decades, Wolfgaard t the official 
name for the Wolfs territory, can be found in the 
inhospitable terrain south of the Hag's Domain and 
north of Grevesmlihl, bordering on the eastern 
edge of Krakenspiel Bay Wolfgaard, while mapped 
and referred to as a distinct and separate domain, is 
simply an independent group of provinces under 
the regency and control of Hjorig. 

Our interviewer, an Aimirean named Shaeron, 
and her guide, Naple of Grabentob, were among 
the first recorded people to ever encounter the Wolf 
in a nonaggressive manner Shaeron was chosen for 
her rogue talents of telepathy and empathy; as 
advised by Daznig, she kept a complete diary- of the 
trip. This journal has her thoughts, her feelings, and 
experiences while on this tour into Wolfgaard. 

Day 33: For over one month, we've made an 
intensive search for the Wolf, but have found no 
trace of the beast whatsoever, Could the existence 
of this creature be merely a rumor? 

Day 42: Naple found a large scat pile 


from a predator about an hour before camp (bone 
chips were found in it). Two-day old tracks from a 
large canine lead from the deposit and head to the 
north. 

Day 47: We've followed the tracks for five days 
into progressively denser woods, Naple thinks the 
beast is hunting-tracks show signs of jumps in 
speed and erratic movements. 

Day 50: Today the tracks are very fresh, and they 
lead right up to a large crag of rock. We found a 
bedding that appears to have been used just a few 
hours ago, Naple has been finding territorial mark 
ings on trees and outcroppings, so he thinks w T e're 
very close to the creature's den. 

About an hour before we set up camp, Naple sud 
denly felt very uncomfortable. I could see the color 
drain from his face, and he complained of being 
watched. We searched around after five terrifying 
minutes, and we found fresh tracks of a canine 
beast-the Wolf was watching us! It may have been 
watching us for hours, or even days, 

Day 51: Today we spotted the creature's den, It 
was about one mile away from last night's camp 
site, and we decided to set camp within sight of the 
cave opening. We were very conscious of the noise 
we made because we didn't want to disturb or Irri 
tate the Wolf. 

Day 60: We've seen the Wolf several times each 
day since our arrival. Last evening it spent about 45 
minutes staring at us. I think it was wondering what 
we're doing here and if we pose a threat. 

Day 72: The Wolf was in our camp last night. It 
ate some food, stole a pack of supplies, and marked 
the entrance to our tent. Its tracks come up to the 
fire-I thought all animals were frightened of fire. 

I later established an empathic link with the beast 
for the first time and was surprised at the result. 
The Wolf seethes with emotion and seems capable 
of a full range of emotional responses. The emotion 
from this creature was far stronger than any I 
ever felt. 

Day 100: Fve come to the opinion that the 
Wolf is a highly emotional creature, 
the emotions are so strong that 1 get pulled 
into their continual ebb and flow. I'm 
going to try a telepathic link next, to 
find out more. 

Day 130: I haven't yet tele 
pathic ally linked with the 









agreeing recently, and he complains 
that I've become obsessive. I think he's jeal 
ous, and I find that so irritating. I've stopped trying 
to explain the situation to him. He just doesn't 
know. 

Day 138: Today I tried a telepathic link with the 
Wolf and I was amazed. He is intelligent, but hb 
thought processes are very different from our own. 
A refreshing innocence pervades his mind. His only 
concern is with "the now" and he lives with more 
vigor and amazement than a young child. 

Day 156: I've linked telepathically with the Wolf 
every day for several weeks. 1 can't believe the sim 
plicity of his thoughts when compared to the com 
plexity of his emotions, 

Note: After this point in the diary, the narration is 
executed by Naple. 

Day 177: 1 think Shaeron has lost control of her 
wits, I considered forcing her from the area but I'm 
afraid she's got some link with the Wolf and might 
convince him to attack, Eve stopped talking with 
her, as she makes less sense each day She speaks of 
things that either don't matter or about things 1 
don't understand, Shaeron's even talking in a gut 
tural language at times, and I've no idea what she 
says. 

Day 191: The Wolf and Shaeron ran into the 
woods together. Very late in the evening, they came 
back dragging a moose carcass. I moved to cut a 
piece off for my supper but was met with two pairs 
of devilish eyes and bared teeth. I ended up waiting 
until they were done with their binge and asleep 
before I ate, 

Day 202: 1 can't tell who's more the beast any 
more-Shaeron or the Wolf. It shows more human 
qualities than she does now, I decided to leave her* 
as she's attached to the Wolf in many ways. Maybe 
someone smarter can save her, but I am only able to 
watch her become a madwoman who wishes to be a 
wolf. 



Intelligence: Low (7) 

Activity Cycle: Any 
Diet: Carnivore 
Alignment: Neutral 
Movement: 18 
Size: L (9' long) 

Armor Class: 5 
Hit Points: 46 
Saves As: F6 
THACO: 15 
No, of Attacks: 1 or 2 

Damage/Aitack: 2d6 (bite) or Id8/ld8 (paws) 
Special Attacks: Nil 
Special Defenses: Nil 
MR: Nil 

Morale: Elite (13) 

Blood: Tainted (Azrat) 11 

Blood Abilities: Bloodmark (Minor), Heightened 
Ability-Intelligence (Minor), Major Resis 
tance-Nonmagieal Attack (Minor), 

XP Value: l t 400 

The Wolf is not the fearsome beast that everyone 
suspects it is. When it's hungry, it kills, preferring to 
kill things with less intelligence than himself: Intelli 
gence tends to bring out caution in the creature. 
The Wolf either consumed a being with Azrai's 
blood or was infected in an unknown way. It is a 
blooded awnshegh, but all this taint has done is 
increase its size and intelligence. 

The Wolf is content in the security of the woods 
uninhabited by humanity. It prefers to move to a dif 
ferent spot rather than share its territory with a Large 
number of humans or humanoids. The Wolf has 
moved its territory three times. First, it was located 
in southern Drachenward, but it left the area when a 
dragon attacked it. The Wolf moved to the eastern 
part of the Hag's territory but a forest fire forced it 
west into Grabentod, The Wolf stayed there until its 
territory was invaded by humans, who established a 
settlement to mine gold from the mountains. The 
Wolf then moved into its new location, the western 
most provinces of Hjorig. The Wolf seems to like this 
current home, as it has fended off three human and 
one goblin incursions into its territory. 

If attacked or threatened, the Wolf can attack with 
its paws, striking opponents for L& points of damage 
per forepaw, or its bite, which deals 2-12 points of 
damage. There is no threat of disease from the Wolf's 
bite unless the wound is left open and exposed to dirt 
or other substances. Hie Wolf only turns tail and tries 
to escape its opponents only when there is an over 
whelming force against it. 



Important NPCs: Shaeron was 
a woman with empathic talents 
who was sent by Daznig to 
study the Wolf, After her initial 
stay in Wolfgaard, her compan 
ion Naple had to leave her and 
return with the journal to 
Alamie for Daznig to study. 
Shaeron lives two miles from 
the Wolf's den. She has been 
tiying to change herself into a 
wolf, but she has no access to 
alteration spells. Her love for 
the Wolf runs so deeply that 
anyone passing close to the 
Wolf must deal with her first. 
However, she will befriend 
spellcasters by giving them 
food, water, and a place to 
keep warm. Once she's made 
friends, she will try to buy a 
polymorph spell. 


Shaeron is a 5th-level 
diviner with minor access to 
the enchantment/charm and abju 
ration spheres, and she has talents of 
empathy and telepathy. She's willing to trade 
perusal of her spellbooks for a polymorph spell (or its 
equivalent) with a permanency spell. 

Domain Description: Wolfgaard includes three 
provinces-Holde, Nourne, and Sorfeet-and 
Hjorig has not received the Wolf well. When it first 
appeared in their western provinces, many soldiers 
were dispatched to rid Hjorig of the enemy Appar 
ently, the Wolf decided to make a stand. After 
nearly 30 deaths, Hjorig ceded the territory to the 
Wolf and set up ley lines leading back into Hjorig to 
tap the magic the land naturally carries. 

Because the Wolf is so feared, the area has been 
cut off from the rest of Hjorig. Taxes are sometimes 
taken from the human populace, but this is infre 
quent at best* Few taxmasters willingly journey to 
the area, choosing instead to say they were robbed 
in the Wolfgaard woods. 


Province Name: Wolfgaard 

LOCATION: South of Drachenward and west of 
Hjorig 

Status: Provinces of Hjorig 
Alignment: Neutral 

Provinces/Holdings: Holde, Nourne, and Sorfeet 
are the western provinces of Hjorig currently con 
sidered part of Wolfgaard. It is sparsely populated 
with hunters and fishermen, and the small settle 
ments herein are each little more than a trading 
post, a tavern, and a bunkhouse for those far away 
from their own shacks in the mountains. 


Army: The Wolf travels in a pack with eight normal 
wolves, as per the Monstrous Manual accessory. 
Five are males and three are females, and all are sub 
ordinate to the Wolf and follow its every lead. They 
share in the hunting, denmaking, and protecting the 
den from predators. The Wolf is the breeding male and 
as such, it is the leader (alpha) of the pack. 

Wolves (8): Int 5-6; AL N; 

AC 7; HD 3; hp 18; THACO 
18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l; SZ 
(S 3'-4' tall); MV 18; ML 10; 

XP 120/ea. 


























t this juncture, I, 
Daznig, have taken 
the liberty of col 
lating and organizing a wide number of legends, tall 
tales, eyewitness accounts, and other reliable or 
questionable sources to provide the kind reader 
with a wide range of knowledge on a number of 
other blooded scions that roam Cerilia. These 
entries are little more than rumors and tales, for 
that is all that could be ascertained about these per 
sons without even more grave risks by my associ 
ates* Needless to say, they were sufficiently rattled 
by interviewing the Gorgon, Lamia, and other such 
notables that no amount of coercion could convince 
them to continue their researches on these beings 
noted below. As such, it is imperative 
that the reader understand that these 
notations are a combination of my 
own theories, what few facts we 
know about each 
being, and the few 
tales that seemed 
to hold true over a 
number of tellings. 

Not everything 
within the entries can 
be assumed as true, 
but neither can one 
assume that everything 
is false. Simply judge 

for yourself, and should you find out more about 
any of the following creatures of evil or the rare 
good beings, pray tell you should take steps to 
reach me at the Imperial City and enlighten me to 
your new intelligence. And should you bring one to 
its doom, l should like to know of that as well, for 
such things are of import to all in Cerilia. 

Entries are noted in alphabetical order by their 
most common name or title. Names are followed by 
a classification as awnshegh ("Blood of Darkness" 
for corrupted, inhuman evil creatures), ehrshegh 
("Blood of the Light" for altered, nonhuraanoid 
creatures of good), or simply Blooded (for charac 
ters and beings of varied bloodlines who have a cer 
tain stake with the awnsheghlien or ehrsheghlien). 

BInman: (Awnshegh) This grisly being is the 
result of a horrible experiment conducted over a 
century ago by a mad wizardess from Sendoure 
named Dan it a Kusor. This creature was created by 
grafting various body parts and limbs from elves, 
dwarves, and humans together into one form, but it 
remained inert despite the intense magics used 
on it. When Kusor was interrupted at 


lesser _ 
awnsheghlien 

& other npcs 


her gruesome work by a 
wandering awnshegh seeking power, 
she slew it with spells; as a result, she and 
what is now known as the Binman each absorbed 
some of the attacker's fleeting birthright. The Bin- 
man became animate, if not quite alive; after an ini 
tial period of adjustment, the mute Binman gained 
control over its body* Having retained some basic 
warrior's abilities, it attempted to kill 
Danita Kusor, but only succeeded in forcing her to 
flee for her life; she now resides in Chimaeron as its 
namesake awnshegh, the Chimaera. The Binman left 
behind the ruined tower in the Iron Peaks and 
headed through Rohrmarch to Binsada, 

The Binman currently still wanders the lands of Bin- 
sada, Zikala, and Sendoure, seeking a true purpose 
and more power* It generally lolls any 
one who challenges it, but it also has 
befriended thieves and honest folk alike 
{though said friends are few and far 
between). The Bin- 
man sometimes 
lends itself out as a 
mercenary. It has 
fought against the 
invading forces of 
the Sphinx, helped 
Sendoure ward off an 
attack by a coalition of 
orog tribes from Coullabf 
hie, and has worked with 
adventurers and other awnsheghlien alike in short 
term quests of power and gold. Few know or can 
gauge how much power the Binman wields, and 
fewer stiU can guess how it will 
cumstance; it is my the 
had conflicting natures 
lives come to the fore 
chaotic nature 
that protects 
the Binman 
from dashes 
with other 
blooded crea 
tures, but a 
battle 

between the 
Binman and 
the Sphinx is 
inevitable* 



Black Princess: (Awnshegh) Known in 
varied texts as "First Consort," "Raesene's Lady/' or 
"The Gorgon's Queen," the Black Princess is one of 
the least encountered yet most fabled of the 
awnsheghlien, The first wife of the Black Prince Rae- 
sene, this raven-haired beauty was called Tara, and 
she was the sole daughter of a highly placed noble 
family of Anuire. She was present in her pavilion near 
the battle of Deismaar. and was thought buried under 
tons of rock in the final explosions that rocked the 
mountain. Legends say that she survived the fall of 
Azrai and the rise of her husband, though no histori 
cal accounts tell of her rise from the rubble of Mount 
Deismaar. Believers of the legends say she has grown 
to loathe the creature her husband has become, and 
she bides her time in marshalling her power and 
learning magic to destroy him. Few speak of how she 
changed over the years, though one legendary 
account describes her as an exquisite female whose 
flesh appears made of solid onyx, her hair and eyes 
flashing blue and white with lightning. If she still lives, 
she will be one of the main agents to rally against the 
Gorgon to bring about his downfall. 



Borelas the Badger: (Ehrshegh) Borelas is a 
human ranger who wanders the great northern woods 
in Rjurik lands, seeking to protect the lands and 
people from suffering at the hands of awnsheghlien 
and other rampaging monsters. A rare, emerging 
ehrshegh, he has just recently begun a transformation 

into his totem animal: 
a badger His face 
and left arm are the 
only parts of him that 
been affected. If 
encountered, he is 
soft-spoken, dis 
trustful of strangers 
to a point, and very 
careful to leave his 
hood up and his cloak 
wrapped around his 
left ami, keeping his 
changes hidden. He 
is uncertain why the 
changes are happen 
ing, but he is confi 
dent that his path is 
true and so maintains 
his course. 


Dame Wither: (Blooded) Within 
the southern regions of the Coutladaraight in 
Rheulgard, rumors talk of an old crone who lives deep 
in the woods with her three sons, Dame Wither, as 
she is called, acts as a seer, midwife, and minor wiz 
ard ess for those willing to pay for her services. Where 
her power comes from, none know, though it is cer 
tain she has been alive for nearly 200 years. 

Her sons are identical triplets, aU three huge, bar 
rel-chested woodcutters with wild manes of flaming- 
red hair and beards. They are all nearly a century 
old, but none looks older than his mid-twenties. 
Known as Bori, Molor, and Tynnos, these men are 
never without their heavy axes or knives. 

If rumors are to be believed, it is best not to cross 
either Dame Wither or her sons. She may have the 
wither touch of Azrai's blood, though she is not cor 
rupted in body by this taint. Her sons apparently 
have a peculiar ability to see through each others' 
eyes and think as one. "All the better to protect 
Mother," they say 

Diabolyk: (Awnshegh) One of the first true 
awnsheghlien, the Diabolyk was an enemy of all 
blooded scions who lived, and he remained nearly 
equal to the Gorgon in power for centuries until the 
death of Michael Roele. Originally the Diabolyk 
was Daryn Theros, an assassin and spy within 
Prince Raesene's entourage, and as such he was pre 
sent at the battle for Mount Deismaar, His blood- 
form abilities became immediately apparent after he 
slew a number of retainers, absorbing their power; 
his own body began to run like quicksilver, allowing 
arrows and swords to pass wholly through him. With 
this power, Daryn Theros became the Diabolyk, a 
faceless humanoid whose solidity changed at will. 
While inherently one of the most dangerous of the 
early awnsheghlien, he apparently fell victim to the 
Gorgon over 400 years ago; the Gorgon's then-new 
ability to paralyze folk with a gaze overpowered the 
Diabolyk's ability to shift around kilting blows. One 
account describes the final blow that "shattered the 
Diabolyk into a thousand razor shards of stone that 
swiftly melted into a pool and drained away into a 
running stream/' 

There are some that believe the Diabolyk stilt lives 
today and is biding time and planning revenge 
against the Gorgon. However, little activity of any 
thing resembling the shifting form of the Diabolyk has 
been reported in centuries. Of course, the awnshegh 
was always crafty, even when he was human. 








" 


t* 


Faun; (Ehrshegh) Little is known of this particu 
lar blooded creature, save that its form is that of a 
Rjurik man's body with the legs of a goat; many sus 
pect that the Faun is a former druid of Erik. It 
apparently resides somewhere within the great 
northern forest that covers the Blood Skull Barony 
just north of the Silverhead Mountains. Tales tell of 
the Faun's singing being irresistible to any who hear 
it. Apparently, those who dance and drink with the 
Faun "for a night'' return to their homes days later 
but are years older for their diversions. 


Fae: (Ehrshegh) This 

stunning woman was once known as Ryllimahr, a elf 
of such magnificence "that no man of any race could 
bear to part from her presence once he saw her 
beauty." She also was a high-ranking elf--some even 
say she was their queen-in a clan that formerly lived 
in the Forest of Thuringode, According to legend, her 
magic grew after the battle at Deismaar and she 
began to change, her hair shifting to silver and even 
tually to shining reflective crystal. These changes did 
not alter her demeanor, which was always agreeable 
and kind. Eventually she grew "wings of mist, morn 
ing dew, and frost" and flew away over the Kraken- 
nauricht, apparently to her death, over 700 years 
ago. But recent tales from the Hoarfell Mountains 
tell of a dazzling figure that walks the mountains at 
moonrise and sings ancient elven ballads. The few 
eEves who claim to have seen her beheve this creature 
of living crystal is the Fae, though those who set out 
to seek her have never returned. 


Whyrven was a high priest 
and healer dedicated to 
Anduiras. Upon his assumption of 
power, Bhaervas allowed his frloodtra it to 
overwhelm him to aid him in healing the sick 
and wounded, as well as protecting his allies from 
the Black Prince's power-hungry forces. Within a year 
of Deismaar's fall, Bhaervas had become the Golden 
Unicorn, and a mere lock of its mane could cure ill 
ness while a touch of its hom restored a persons total 
health and youth. The last record of its presence 


Garak the Glutton: (Awnshegh) This evil dwarven 
mercenary fought on Azrai's side at Deismaar and 
gained much power with the battle s conclusion. This 
power has cost him much, though, as he has been con 
sumed by a ravenous hunger for over 1,000 years. 
Garak is a fierce, disagreeable creature to be near, as 
he still resembles a dwarf only in stature; his jaw and 
mouth have widened to mirror his hunger, and his skin 
has adopted a leathery hidelike appearance the color 
of coal. His hunger drives him to consume everything 
within reach: food and drink, rock and raw ore, gold 
and precious stones, or even his own fallen enemies. 


Golden Unicom: (Ehrshegh) An ally and 
retainer of Haelyn at the battle for 
Mount Deismaar, Bhaervas 


within Anuire lands was in a ballad first 
sung at the height of the Empire 
says the Golden Unicom gal 
loped off across the waves 
of the Gulf of Coer- 
anys, vowing to 





peace and did not need its healing pow 
ers. The now-ruined tower of the Whyrven 
family in northern Aerenwe is still held as a 
holy place for those pilgrims seeking miracle cures. 

Green Man: (Awnshegh) Once a minor elven war 
rior among Rhuobhes forces, this young elf held a 
minor taint of Altai's power in his blood. Recently, 
on a raid into Boeruine, this unnamed being slew 
two human guards (each with a taint of Vorynn's 
blood) and assumed their power His entire body 
took on green hues, and many say his mind shattered 
that day. Now called the Green Man, this awnshegh 
is a totally unpredictable hazard to those traveling 
anywhere within the Aelvinnwode. While his power 
hardly contests Rhuobhe's, each elf covets the 
others power and they have dashed twice in the past 
year with no apparent result. The Green Man s most 
unique ability involves travel by leaping into a tree 
and appearing out of the trunk or branches of 
another tree, allowing him a quick escape at all times 
within his own territory 


Hoarfrost: (Awnshegh) No one knows if he still 
roams the northern coasts of Vosgaard, but mothers 
still frighten their children with horrific tales of 
Hoarfrost, an awnshegh that, according to current 
tellings, kidnapped naughty children and fed them 
to his pet varsks. 

In truth, Hoarfrost was a descendant of one of 
Kriesha s retainers and a strong bloodline continued 
through till nearly 50 years ago. The true name of the 
bloodline is now lost, but the last remaining member 
of that line became the awnshegh known as Hoarfrost, 
A burly Vos warrior of enormous height, he had grown 
a tail and his legs resembled a varsk's; his skin was the 
color of glacial ice and frigid to the touch; and his scalp 
and beard were thick with snow at all times. Anything 
he touched froze, and his icy footprints were once a 
common sight to natives of Hjorig and Drachenward. 

According to a Local legend in Icemarch, Hoar* 
frost fell prey to a giant bird of fire, and he 
melted away somewhere on the northern 
plains off Leviathan's Reach. Most 
Vos believe this to be false, 
since the Phoenix (the 
only known crea 
ture to fit the 


-• 



description) 

would 

not 




stray so far from home, and there are recent reports 
of overflowing spring streams suddenly icing over in 
Berhagen and Kal Kalathor and freezing sleet falling 
in a forest in Molochev at midsummer. Hoarfrost 
himself has not been seen in more than 50 years, 
but few believe him to be gone entirely 

Kiras: (Awnshegh) Kiras Earthcore, and old 
dwarf from Mur-Kilad, has proved his worth and 
loyalty to the Gorgon enough to have been 
granted the infamous title and position of the 
"Hand of the Gorgon ,* the Gorgon's primary 
enforcer within the Crown. At last sighting eight 
years ago, Kiras still retained most of his dwarven 
features, though his hair was falling out at an 
exaggerated pace. Like the former Black Prince, 
he is arrogant, takes offense at the slightest hint 
of insult, and shows a remarkable aptitude and 
desire for causing others pain. 

Current rumors tell of Kiras' fall into awnshegh 
status. His body now resembles its original shape, 
but has no features aside from smooth granite skin, 
a wide fanged maw, and razor sharp talons where 
fingers once were. It is astonishing to hear of an 
awnshegh transformation happening so swiftly; one 
suspects the Gorgon may be punishing him for trea- 
sonous plotting. A terror within the Gorgon's 
Crown, Kiras would certainly be a danger should he 
go on rampage. 

Languis the Protector: (Blooded) While I 
believe this to be little more than folklore, a num 
ber of sources talk of a being most often known as 
Languis, whose abilities mark him as a scion of 
the blood. If the stories are held as true, Languis 
never ate, slept, or drank, but simply acted as a 
guardian and provider They say he survived off 
the goodwill his kindness fostered, and that 
tragedies force him to move on to another village 
or family. The last known legend of such a protec 
tor placed Languis near the lands of the Basilisk, 
where the legend mentions the ransacking and 
destruction of a nearby farming community by a 
tribe of gnolls. Languis either couldn't fight the 
gnolls or was lax in his duty. This happened over 

40 years ago, and no current tales are told of 
Languis the Protector 



Meson the Wolfman: 

(Awnshegh) This creature stalks its prey in 
the Coulladaraight, most often near Treucht and 
Rheulgard, but he was once spotted as far afield as 
Ktergard. The best account on Meson is given to us 
by a militiaman from the realm of Justina 
Heulough, also known as the Bansheghs Domain: 

"The wolfman stands at the height of a normal 
man, and he wears a finely-crafted suit of armor 
with wolf motifs all over. All I saw other than the 
armor was his face and hands, and they were cov 
ered with a fine, glossy brown fur, finer than a 
wolf's pelt, but his fingers ended in huge claws* 

"We were fighting Rheulgardian invaders in a 
clearing when the wolfman burst out of the woods 
and started tearing everybody apart. Within min 
utes, we're the only ones left standing-and he just 
bowed, said a polite how-do-you-do, gave his name 
as Meson, and bounded off* His accent placed him 
from somewheres east of here, but l can't say that 
his features looked human at all,* 

"Maybe he's not half-wolf and half-man, but he 
was obviously dangerous. I still don't know T why he 
left us alone, but I'm grateful. Maybe he's just out 
to kill Rheulgardians too, like us, do you think?" 


Pegasus: (Ehrshegh) This skittish beast b a pow 
erful horse with wings, and it makes its home some 
where within the Seamist Mountains. At the fall of 
Deismaar, Haelyn rose up to godhood, and his 
charger gained power, too: intelligence and its wings* 
Since Deismaar, the Pegasus has aided the forces of 
good, though only the Rode bloodline could call on 
it* None have seen the Pegasus in years. 


Phoenix: (Ehrshegh) Many details on this 
being's life are steeped in legend, but it is known 
that the Phoenix was once the daughter of a promi 
nent Khinasi house and a priestess to Avani. She 
became so peaceful and so close to the gods that 
she burst into flames and became the firebird 
known as the Phoenix. That ts all that can be cor 
roborated in texts* Oral traditions of southern Cer- 
ilia offer over 200 versions of the Phoenix's tale, 
each tied to the teller's family or a friend's family* 
While she has not been officially sighted in over 300 
years, the Phoenix might roost at the peak of Ras 
Deissid on the isiand of Ghamoura. 


Prikesk: (Awnshegh) Prikesk was a young Vos 
squire with the troops at Deismaar, and he and his 
master were among the few who did not abandon 
Azrai. Invested with power upon the gods' destruc- 








tion, Prikesk stopped aging. After 700 years, he still 
appeared as a boy of 11, though his mouth was filled 
with razor-sharp fangs and he could climb walls like 
a spider. Often taken in as an orphan to work as a 
-castle squire, Prikesk fed on unwitting blooded 
scions within reach of his venomous fangs. While 
the Gorgon claimed to be Prikesk's final master and 
slayer, tales of a young lad with similar abilities still 
filter out of Vosgaard. 

Quickfoot: (Blooded) This honorary title is 
granted to the eldest son of the Rhurfoot halfling dan 
of Avanil upon the investiture of power from father to 
child. The current Quickfoot is the 40th halfling to 
hold this title and the position as Special Messenger 
for his Grace, the Duke of Avanil. Each Quickfoot for 
centuries has been granted this ability (usually from 
father to son, though there were 12 females who bore 
the Quickfoot name in the past) to run as swiftly 
as a riding horse for three full days without tir 
ing. Quickfoot once ran more swiftly and for 
^ longer periods-Quickfoot the 3rd 
.allegedly rai* from Vosgaard to Avanil 
in four days!-but the powers were 
lessened by the 19th title- 
bearer, who invested half 
of the power into 
each of his twin 
/ sons. One 

m fell 


to the power of the Hydra, and only the other 
remained to ensure the survival of this bloodline, 
which continues today as a proud and noble lineage. 

Rage of the Sea; (Awnshegh) A new menace in the 
waters off the coast of southern Anuire, the Rage of 
the Sea appears to be a mixture of Anuirean woman 
and shark. Nothing is known about her, other than 
the fact that she is consumed with anger, and she has 
attacked a number of ships in the waters off Medoere 
and Ilien. Tylas, a scribe in the city of Ilien, cited her 
name as the Rage of the Sea, for that is her popular 
name among seafarers. Tylas also suggested that a 
link to her origins might be found in an old seamans 
tale of a lonely young wife losing her man to the sea, 
and longing for any way to swim out and bring him 
back. As this awnshegh has been spotted only twice in 
the past two years and the story he quotes is a cen 
turies-old folk tale, little stock is put in it. 

Ruovar the Red Bull: (Awnshegh) Ruovar, one of 
Rhuobhe's lieutenants* was always an elf of fiery 
temper and brash actions. As the power of Azrai 
twisted his form toward an unearthly crossing of elf 
and bull, Ruovar increasingly lost his self-control 
and staged many frequent raids against nearby 
human "encroachments," By the time his transfor 
mation was complete (as a red-pelted bull with 
sharp, horn-like ears and a slimmer but muscular 
form), he was nearly mindless. Over four centuries 
ago, Ruovar and Ruabhe parted company, and the 
former began a decades-long trek across 

\ 












the land, killing any 
one or anything that crossed 
his path, including a few posses 
sors of blood abilities. Ruovaris hunger 
for power was inestimable, and it is unknown 
how much additional power Ruovar gained from 
these kills. The beast was reported missing over 
seven decades ago near the land now known as the 
Magian's Domain, and there is only idle speculation 
as to Ruovaris current whereabouts and status. 


Shadows: (Blooded) This devious little halfling is 
known only as Shadows, and no halfling clan across 
Cerilia lays claim to his birth, so one can only won 
der at his origin. It would be hard to mistake this 
halfling for another, as he is an albino, with pure i 
white hair, red eyes, and a very pale complexion. 

Tales are told of him waylaying lone travelers or small 
groups on lonely roads during the nights of the new 
moon, stealing valuables and lives. Given the generally 
affable nature of halfltngs, this is quite a disturbing 
image for most, especially halflings (though Shadows 
has never been known to harm his own i. . yet). 

Some legends suggest that this malevolent little 
being spirits folk away to the Shadow World, 
whether in broad daylight or deepest night, by 
enveloping them with thick tendrils of shadow. They 
say this is why there are rarely more than a few 
scraps of bloodied cloth left at the scene when 
Shadows strikes. As few survive meeting Shadows, 
only he knows his true motives and abilities for cer 
tain. It is almost certain, given his prod ivitWto ward 
death and ill will, that Shadows draws his power 
from the blood of Azrat and not a little power from 
a very direct tie to the Shadow' World, 


4 

** -t 

*4 


Stag of Sfelwode; (Blooded) This creature is 
guaranteed to pique the curiosity of any blooded 
scion. It is a veritable questing beast, as it is seem 


ingly immortal and ageless. Thirteen times this 
black-haired stag w T ith a rack of pure silver 
horns has been brought to 
ground, and thirteen times 
has it gotten up and 



escaped while 
being dragged 
out of the 


Pi 





JP 


m 



¦ ¦ 






Sielwode* It is fast, cunning, and nigh- 
impossible to kill-it'd even test the forest 
god Erik's skills at the hunt! 


>V 



Swordhawk: (Awnshegh) The current ruler of 
Massenmarch, Karl Bissel has only begun his trans 
formation towards his ultimate form and powers. 
Wild rumors float about Massenmarch and the sur" 
rounding lands about BisseTs actual appearance, 
announcing anything from eyes on the sides of his 
head and wings on his back to blades sprouting out 
the length of his arms. The only guaranteed facts 
are that he keeps his face and body hidden beneath 
armor (including full gauntlets and basket helm) 
almost all the time he is in public. Despite this 
transformation to awnshegh form, Karl Bissel is 
still one of the most ruthless, cunning, and capa 
ble leaders within the Brechtur lands on the 
Krakennauricht. His appellation as the Sword- 
hawk is a self-proclaimed title from his days as a 
bandit and assassin, and he uses it now as a badge 
of distinction, warning all who cross his path that 
the Swordhawk is on the road of power, and shall 
not be stopped- 


Synnith the Wraith: (Blooded) Many believe 
Synnith is currently allied with the Magian, though 
he has spent the past 30 years traveling the conti 
nent as a mercenary. While short and wiry, he still 
appears as an Anuirean human, though his eyes are 
wholly black with no irises or pupils-some say his 
gaze freezes a man's blood cold with terror! He is 
also well known by a habit of chuckling evilly from 
shadows before he strikes. His name stems from his 
particularly strong blood ability to travel- if 
accounts are to be believed, this man has enhanced 
that ability to allow himself to teleport between our 
world and the Shadow World at will, despite time of 
day or location. It is this ability that has both saved 
him from assassination and aided him in killing 
other blooded foes* 

Terror: (Awnshegh) They say the 
, > | . Terror is only a shadow, but 
this shadow has more 
substance and 
power than 
most. If the 
rumors 
are to 



%.v\. 

¦immm 






J >%¦ 




be believed, this creature was once a trusted emis 
sary and sometime spy for the ruler of Elinie, but he 
gave in to his greed and his tainted blood, swiftly 
becoming the living silhouette known as the Terror. 
He now stalks the nighttime lands surrounding Elinie, 
seeking out folk of the blood to increase his power in 
the hopes of conquering Elinie someday soon, 

Tollanr (Awnshegh) A new lieutenant of the 
Gorgon, Tollan is a far less powerful awnshegh at 
this stage in his life, for he is less apt at combat 




122 







and claiming the 
blood abilities of others and 
more apt at skulking and intrigues involving 
money. Totlan manages the Gorgon's few trade routes 
and oversees the latter's spies and assassins- He is 
changing slightly and is certainly no common human, 
as his skin and fingernails have taken on a gold hue, 
and his teeth have become ruby fangs. Tollan consid 
ers taking on an appellation to underscore his hlood- 
form , but he has yet to create one to his and his 
masters satisfaction {and he has killed the insolent 
spy who dared nickname him ll The Living Hoard'"). 

Treant: {Ehrshegh) A former Grand Druid, Gun- 
nar Svotjinn now lives an immortal life as the Treant, 
a true part of nature. His form is that of a monstrous 
oak with a discernible bearded face within its bark. 
The Treant has not moved or spoken to anyone other 
than his dryad companions in over 250 years, though 
a number of druids make a trek to his clearing within 
the Aeivinnwode in Cariele in hopes of gaining wis 
dom from him. Tales say he can uproot every tree 
within a mile of him to send it on the march, though 
such a thing has never been seen, and it is doubtful a 
creature of nature would ever resort to such tactics, 
no matter what the provocation, 

Warlock; (Awnshegh) Allegedly one of the sur 
viving children of Prince Raesene T s early attempts 
at founding his own dynasty, the Warlock lives a life 
of paranoia and distrust, always believing his 
power-mad father seeks his death at every turn. The 
Warlock is not without his own power, and after 
l t Q00 years, he is one of the premier wizards on the 
face of Cerilia, surpassed only by the Magian. He 
plans on facing his father some day, but not before 
he has the might to bring the Gorgon down. 

Water Maiden: (Ehrshegh) The Water Maiden 
was a faalf-elven wizardess and consort to an elven 
lord in the forests of Lluabraight. She could per 
form amazing magic with water, though she had no 
power over ice or mists. According to a poem found 
in Hjorig, she could transform her body into water 
and flow to safety when threatened. The last time 
she was seen, she used this transformation to 
escape the pursuit of the Gorgon, but with no 
prominent water sources nearby, sages believe she 
evaporated and died somewhere within the foothills 
of the Stonecrown Mountains of Markazor* A 
diviner who inspected the area recently claims that 
an immense aquifer lies relatively close to the sur 
face. Could this be the Water Maiden or simply a 
new well? 



White Goblin: (Awnshegh) The White Goblin is 
a vile beast that barely resembles its former hobgo- 
bilin status. It stands a full three feet taller than the 
average goblin and has double the weight, and has a 
deathly white pallor-even its bristlelike hair is 
wan. It possesses the tusks of a boar and razor- 
sharp claws that it uses to shred prey and oppo 
nents. A potent leader of a renegade band of 
thieving and murdering goblins and gnolls, the 
White Goblin is worshiped by its followers as a god 
{just as its great-grandsire, the Spider, has been 
worshiped for centuries), It is quite powerful, hav 
ing slain many minor blooded persons within its 
short 40 years as a known awnshegh, though its 
life span is considered to be coming to a close 
now that the White Goblin is encroaching on 
the Massenmarch landtf of Swordhawk Sfc 

{whose power is evidently on the rise, J \ \ 
with the swiftly fading humanity of £y 
the ruthless Karl Biss el). C 1 l 





< 55 ^- 


fm 


Mr 


W 



> * 

& 




JJL 

123 









\ 


he Rulebook of the Birthright campaign 
set details bloodline abilities for all scions 
of the ancient gods, including those 
bloodlines descended from Azrai. These abilities 
are the basic core gifts, but there are many more 
available to awnsheghlien and heroes alike, as will 
be shown in this appendix. However, differences 
between heroes of Cerilia and their monstrous 
counterparts affect how their abilities manifest, 
The new abilities given here demonstrate how and 
why much of the power of the awnsheghlien is 
placed in their transformed bodies, 

power or curse? 

Some awnsheghlien in this book have new abilities, 
but not all new abilities are included in the tables 
below. The powers wielded by the Basilisk or the 
Siren, for example, are unique. Why are these 
beasts given such power? Why can't the heroes tap 
such might? Simply put, drawing upon such power 
most often comes at a high cost: the person's 
humanity. 

To summon an old adage: "Power corrupts, and 
absolute power corrupts absolutely/' A large propor 
tion of an awnsheg Ws power actively alters that 
being's original form, feeding it power but simultane 
ously forcing it to become more like the base creature 
the being is in spirit* Given the penchant of those 
with the blood of Azrai for selfishness, greed, or 
unabashed evil, those beings tied to Azrai become the 
horrific awnsheghlien. The majority of the power 
adapts and maintains the changes wrought on a body 
keeping it in monstrous form.Awnsheghlien still have 
access to the standard and new blood abilities* but it 
is more likely for them to 
have unique skills tied to their 
attered forms, 

Though most blooded 
heroes are loathe to 
allow their powers to 
build up enough to 
change them physi 
cally, a select few 
advanced their 

blood abilities beyond the norm in the 
Krause of good. These rare beings are 
collectively called the Ehrsheghlien, 
'blood of the light," and are 
mentioned in the 11 Lesser 
W 7 /vAwnsheghlien and 
Other NPCs" 
section. 


new blood 
abilities 


VI ; 


rp 






'4t 

tn 

ft - 

m 


w 


This section details new powers, along with any lim 
itations or consequences. A chart provides the 
Dungeon Master with a random way to assign these 
powers to future NPCs or to PCs as further 
birthrights* 

Blood Abilities XI Table 
d% Ability 

01-25 Bloodform (Major* Great) 

26-28 Bloodtrait (Major, Great) 

29-33 Charm Aura (Major* Great) 

34-40 Detect Life (All) 

41-45 Death Touch (Minor, Major) 

46-48 Invulnerability (Great) 

49-60 Long Life (Major* Great) 

61*63 Major Regeneration (Great) 

64-70 Major Resistance (All) 

70-72 Wither Touch (AH ) 

73-00 Roll on Standard Blood Abilities Table* 

'Table 13i Blood Abilities can be found in tbe Ruldboob of the 
Birthright campaign set. 

Bloodform Major, Great 

Derivation: Azrai 

This is the power that causes an awnshegh's form to 
shift toward its most corrupt state; from the character's 
perspective, he is achieving power that ultimately 
,0 suits his nature (if 

not his aesthetic 
wishes). An uncon 
trolled power* blood' 
form 
manifests 
whenever a 
character 
invested with 
the blood of 

Azrai (and this ability) taps his powers. 

In many ways* bloodform is more a curse than an 
ability, but many awnsheghlien look at it as a mixed 
blessing. Initial changes are small but noticeable; 
for example* a human female with Azrai's bloodline 
is wounded, and when she uses her regeneration abil 
ity* her body heals over the wound with different 
skin, almost a scaled hide. Continual use of blood 
abilities brings these physical changes more to the 
forefront until they totally alter the original crea 
ture* creating an awnshegh; our example 



blood abilities 


124 



of the human female could eventually become the 
Naga or some other suitably scaled creature of 
nightmares. Depending on the amount and fre 
quency of powers used, as well as the character s 
bloodline strength, the transformation to awnshegh 
form could take as little as three years or as many as 
six centuries. 

When a character with the bloodform ability 
receives any additional power, through bloodtheft 
or other channels, there is a 75% chance that the 
new ability will manifest as a physical change in his 
body which allows either a new attack (claws, beak, 
fangs, etc.), a new defense (armored or furred skin, 
increased speed, etc.), or a new physical ability 
entirely (the Gorgon's paralytic gaze, the Vampire's 
mist form, etc.)* 

The ultimate transformation of a character to 
awnshegh status should be carefully planned by the 
DM, so there is a logical progression of the crea 
ture's form, attack and defense modes, and final 
powers based on the character's personality and 
nature. If this is a player character, discussions with 
the DM on the character's drives and goals can help 
to divine how r the PC's bloodform will be manifest. 

Bloodtrait Major, Great 

Derivation: Any except Azrai 

Blooded characters can change their physical 
forms to access their blood abilities more evoca 
tively, In effect, a character can use this gift to alter 
his body to accurately reflect his powers. This is 
very similar to the uncontrolled bloodform ability 
that creates awnsheghlien, though the characters 
partially control the power changing them. The 
exact form of these bloodtrait transformations is not 
controlled by the blooded character, but the timing 
of the change is. Therefore, these characters choose 
to exhibit their special legacies openly. An NPC 
with a bloodtrait is unsettling to normal mortals, 
though, and results in a +1 to +4 encounter reaction 
penalty, depending on circumstances. 

Examples: A character with Vorynn's bloodline 
might choose to change her entire head to resemble 
that of an owl in order for her to more easily tap her 
animal affinity talent. Another blooded character 
might shift his hand from appearing as 
solid flesh to something crys 
talline that glows 


ffi 


when the healing talent 
is used. Unlike the blood - 
form, this change does not 
advance uncontrollably; it advances 
and alters a character further only if so willed 
by the character, 

It is rare that any regent or scion of any bloodline 
would choose to significantly change his form, as this 
sort of alteration of form is most closely linked in 
many peoples' minds with the awnsheghlien. Within 
the first eight centuries after Deismaar, though, cir 
cumstances forced this ability into use in order for 
the forces of good to vanquish the growing evil of 
rampaging awnsheghlien. While no one in the public 
eye has actively used this power to change himself 
in recent centuries, a few ancient heroes embraced 
this ability to become servants of good who moved 
beyond humanity. Known ehrsheghlien (elvish for 
"blood of the light") that still exist within Cerilia 
include the Pegasus, the Phoenix, and the Treant. 

Charm Aura Major, Great 

Derivations: Azrai, Basaia, Brenna 

Similar to divine aura , charm aura projects an 
invisible shroud of power around the blooded char 
acter. Rather than enthralling onlookers with awe 
and majesty, this aura also mesmerizes and controls 
those within 50 feet. As a major ability, the charac 
ter can charm 1-6 nonhosttle creatures or scare ene 
mies. As a great talent, charm aura inflicts either 
muss charm on nonbostiles or confusion on hostiles 
within 75 feet. This power, regardless of its rank, is 
usable only three times per day and affects only 
nonbloodcd creatures of six or fewer hit dice. 

C harm aura T when used with a divine aura T can 
extend the range of either aura to 100 feet. 


Death Touch Minor, Major 

Derivation: Azrai 

A character afflicted with this ability can exude a 
virulent poison in some manner. Contact 
with this toxin results in disease 
or death, depending on the 
strength of the abil 
ity. With the 
slightest con 
tact, death 
touch 


W' 



125 


spoil food and drink, or pollute a small 
well or enclosed pool of water. This abil 
ity manifests in a wide variety of ways, such 
as a skin-contact poison (emitted through 
pores on hands or other appendages), injected 
poisons (introduced through fangs or another 
piercing implement) t or a spray or cloud (anything 
from a mist-like breath weapon to an underwater 
ink cloud). At its widest dispersal, the death touch 
affects only those creatures within a 25-foot 
radius of the emission point. 

At minor levels, contact forces a victim to save vs. 
death magic or else contract a disease and lose ld4 
hit points per day until a neutralize poison or a cure 
disease Is cast on the victim. A major death touch is 
moTe virulent, and an immediate save vs. death 
magic is needed to stave off death in 1-10 rounds; if 
successful, the effects still operate as per the minor 
ability. 

Obviously, some awnshegBlien have even more 
dangerous variants of this ability, exuding natural 
poisons of extremely virulent natures. While they 
are listed as having this ability, their particular poi 
sonous touches (or effects) are unique and detailed 
under each specifically empowered awnshegh. 

Detect Life Minor, Major, Great 

Derivation; Any 

The blooded character can sense all living crea 
tures and things within a particular range. At 
minor ability, the character can sense animal life in 
general amounts (little to a lot) and the exact 
amount and location of tiving plant life within 100 
yards per Intelligence point. Major ability grants 
the character a range of 300 yards per Intelligence 
point, the power focused to detect exact amounts 
of animals and a general amount of sentient life. 
At great ability, detect life can pinpoint exact num 
bers of all forms of life (sentient or not) within 


500 yards per Intelligence point, 



Invulnerability Great 

Derivations: Azrai, Basaia, Vorynn 

The blooded character that possesses this blood 
ability is not fully immortal, but he cannot be killed 
except under specific circumstances. This ability 
renders him immune to all spells and effects that 
use the Death Magic saving throw matrix. He is 
also immune to the effects of all poisons, no matter 
how virulent. 

A character with invulnerability can be killed only 
under a particular set of deadly conditions which 
are unique for each blooded scion. If an NPC has 
this ability, the DM must decide what procedures 
must be accomplished for it to be slain, As an exam 
ple, a being might need to be slain like so to bypass 
its invulnerability and end its life: "It must be 
reduced to less than -10 hit points, the head must 
be severed, and its heart must be removed from its 
chest. The parts must each be burned separately on 
open fires." 

If even one of the proscribed steps is not done 
properly, the character regenerates one hit point 
each hour until it reaches one hit point. The normal 
healing process for that individual then takes over 
at that point. Unless it is truly destroyed, the 
blooded character does not lose any of its birthright 
or regency. 

Long Life Minor, Major, Great 

Derivation: All 

With this ability, a blooded character enjoys a 
greatly increased life span, as the aging process is 
vastly slowed down, This does not protect a charac 
ter from normal damage from combat or poisons, 
but simply postpones the ravages of age, A charac 
ter with the minor ability ages only one year for 
every five that pass. A major (oMg life sees a charac 
ter age one year across 25 years. Characters with 
this great ability, like the Gorgon, are aging at a rate 
of only one year each century. 

Major Regeneration Great 

Derivation: Azrai, Reynir 

This ability is available only to those blooded 
scions who also have the standard regeneration 
ability; this is simply an extended version of 
that ability. With this ability an 
awnshegh or scion of 



Reynir can regen 
erate lost limbs, damaged 
organs and senses, and heal wounds much 
faster than normal or blooded beings. 

The character regains lost hit points at a rate of 
one per round. If limbs, organs, or senses were lost, 
they are restored in weeks {30 days, reduced by one 
day per Constitution point). 

This power, when used by a blooded character of 
Azrai, dramatically increases the speed of the trans 
formation to awnshegh status, as restored limbs 
and senses are rarely those of the character's origi 
nal race. 

Major Resistance Minor, Major, Great 

Derivation: All (see below) 

The resistance ability in the core rules outlines 
only the most common resistance to attacks or 
spells prevalent in each particular bloodline. Like 
the original ability, major resistance at minor rank 
affords 25% immunity, major rank allows 50% 
immunity, and a great rank major resistance grants 
the blooded scion 75% immunity to the noted 
effect. Again, this ability is most similar to the resis 
tance an elf has to sleep and charm spells. 

Below are additional resistances, and under each 
resistance are those bloodlines that have access to 
this major resistance , 

Charm : This ability is identical to the elves' resis 
tance to charm spells and spell-like effects or the 
standard resistance ability of the Anduiras bloodline. 
This further conveys resistance to the fear blood 
ability. New derivations: Azrai, Brenna, Reynir, 
Magic: Like a number of rare creatures, this scion 
of the blood is naturally resistant to the effects of 
magic, whether from spells or items. This ability 
applies to all types of magic except blood abilities. 
Note: This ability is only accessible to those of 
Great bloodline rank or higher, and can be accessed 
only at Minor rank (25% magic resistance). New 
derivations: Anduiras, Azrai, Reynir, Voiynn. 

Nonmagical Attacks: Unlike the other major resis 
tances, this ability does not immediately prevent 
attacks or effects from happening, but it does 
lessen their impact. Those same immunities per 
rank (25% / 50% / 75%) mark the amount by which 
damage from normal weapons or natural attacks is 
reduced. For example, an awnshegh with this abil 
ity at minor rank is damaged for 8 points of dam 
age, but only 6 points are subtracted from its v 
hit-point total (25% of 8 is 2), New derivations; 
Azrai, Brenna, Masela. 


Poison: If a character with this ability is exposed 
to any type of poison (by gas, venom, poisoned 
weapon, potion, etc.), he rolls to neutralize the poi 
son outright according to his rank ability. If that roll 
fails, he still gains his saving throws vs, poison, at a 
+ 1 bonus per rank ( + 1/+2/+3). New derivations: 
Azrai, Basata, Brenna, Masela, Reynir. 

Bear in mind that blooded scions may have other 
types of resistance , but these abilities are currently 
limited enough to be considered unique to one fam 
ily or bloodline. 


Wither Touch Major, Great 

Derivation: Azrai 

just as touch of decay ruins and destroys inani 
mate objects, wither touch desiccates and withers 
living tissue on contact. The scion affects only 
extremities like arms or legs, but its effects are the 
same no matter the target. 

When touched by this major ability, a victim must 
save vs. polymorph or suffer Id8 points of damage; 
the affected limb is emaciated, and full use of it is 
impossible for ld6 days. A character's Strength is 
reduced by an amount equal to the damage to a 
minimum score of 2. If the blighted limb is not 
removed, heated, or regenerated by blood ability in 
2d4 days, the victim permanently loses the ability 
to fully use the limb, and a character's Strength 
remains permanently reduced* 

At great rank, wither touch emaciates an entire 
creature and initially reduces Strength and hit 
points by Id 12 points each. It also forces victims to 
save vs. death magic once each day. If this saving 
throw is failed, the victim dies. This blight can be 
cured by healing or regeneration , but if this isn't 
done within 2d4 days, the creature Is permanently 
emaciated and reduced in Strength. At that time, 
no further saves vs. death magic are needed as the 
curse has run its course. 

Both ranks of wither touch are usable only once 
per week. 








• Thousands of entries from A to Z! 
Each magical item completely detailed! 

• Includes every magical item 
ever published by TSR! 
¦ From every TSR campaign world, 
accessory, adventure, and 
magazine article, even 
The Strategic Review 
and Imagine/ 


Volume I, A-D 

TSR *2141 
ISBN 1-56076-842-8 

Volume II, D-P 

TSR #2152 
ISBN 0-7869-0124-1 

Volume III, P-S 

TSR #2157 
ISBN 0-7869-0187-X 

Volume IV, S-Z + Index 

TSR *2161 
ISBN 0-7869-0289-2 


Twenty-one 
years in the making! 


Sug Retail Each $2$ 00 . CAN $32.00; El5,99 U K. 
(r) and 


designate trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. 
(c)1995 TSR, Inc. AH Rights Reserved. 


The most far-reaching and detailed 
compilation of magical items ever 
published for any role-playing game 
in four volumes. 









Gorgon's Goblin 
Infantry 

Move: 1 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X 


# BE50 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 1 

+1 bonus vs. pikes 


0 :a|jssj|N 
l :ae|e|/\j 
m i 



Gorgon's Troll ^ # BE52 

Mercenaries Melee: 5 



Move: 2 


OJ 


Defense: 4 
Morale: 




Vampire's 
Bat Swarm 

Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X 





X 0> 


JZ 

\ 


^ # BE54 




Melee: 2 
Charge: 3 

Ignore terrain 
penalties. 


Z :eBiei|0 
(. :aa|3|/y 
HH 


Awnshegh Commander 

This card may stack with any units in one area. 

Any unit accompanied by its awnshegh commander automatically 
succeeds all morale checks and gains a special power. 

Special Powers: 

Gorgon: +1 bonus to all melee attacks, 

Magian: Units gain a saving throw versus spells. Roll any die; an odd 
result cancels the spell's effects; an even result indicates normal 
spell effects* 

Raven: +1 to ail defense ratings. 

Rhuobhe: Units treat all rout results as fall back, 

# BE56 


3101XXXQ607 






















































































































Khinasi Spearmen 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: T V 


A- n BE4i 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 3 

+i bonus vs. 
mounted units. 


3 :a]issilAI 
z : 33 |atAI 
HH l 




Khinasi Spearmen 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f ^ 


# BE42 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 3 

+T bonus vs. 
mounted units. 


2 :a|i5si|A| 
Z:e3|9|N 
HH l 




Gorgon's 
Human Archers 

Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X 




-A- # BE43 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 4 

+7 bont/s vs. 
mounted units. 


£ :9|tss;^| 
t :aa|a|ft| 
HH l 


Gorgon's 
Human Archers 

Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X ? 


-A- s BE44 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 4 

+ ? bonus vs. 
mounted units , 


4 °S 

Till 
Til 


cv< 




e :a ii ss iw 

I. :ee|0|/\| 

HH l 



Gorgon's 
Orog Infantry 

Move: 1 
Defense: 3 



# BE45 

Melee: 3 

*7 bonus vs, pikes 
and irregulars, 




Z :eeieim 
HH v 


.xVr 



Gorgon's 
Orog Infantry 

Move: 1 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f K 



# BE46 

Melee: 3 

+ 7 bonus vs. pikes 
and irregulars. 



Z :ee|eifl| 
HH V 


3 w 

(r) l 

$ W , 





Gorgon's Gnoll 
Infantry 

Move: 2 
Defense: 4 
Morale: ^ 


# QE47 

Melee: 4 
Missile: 2 

+f bonus vs, pikes 
and irregulars. 


I : (r)I! SS !W 
£ :eete|/y 
HH l 






Gorgon's Goblin 
Infantry 
Move: 1 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X 


tt BE48 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 1 

+1 bonus vs, pikes 
and irregulars ¦. 


o :s|issi|/y 

i :eaieifli 

HH l 


310IXXX0606 








































































































































































































Goblin Guards 

Move: t 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f V 


# BE33 

Melee: 4 
Missile: 2 

+1 bonus vs. pikes 
and Irregulars. 


X S " 
nSE 


I. :d|issi|A| 
E :aaiay\i 
1!H i 




Goblin Guards 

Move: 1 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f ^ 


t> BE34 

Melee: 4 
Missile: 2 

+ 1 bonus vs. pikes 
end Irregulars 


.. at 

Xat.!2 

nEE 


i :a|tssi|Ai 

£ :"iaH 
1!H k 



x 

CM . 


Rhuobhe's 
Elf Archers 

Move: 3 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X f V 


^ # BE35 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 5 

Ignore terrain 


Rhuobhe's 

# BE 36 


Elf Scouts 

Melee: 3 

f 

Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X K 

Missile: 3 

Ignore terrain 





4 " (r) 

? </) Oi se 
^_0) ^ 


j8§ >*¦; 


| |k 

csjSS 

z '-mm 


"H l 




** __ s 




Rhuobhe's 
Elf Cavalry 

Move: 4 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X 


¦ # BE37 


Melee: 4 
Charge: 5 
Missile: 3 


Z :s|!SSt|N 
:a6jeqo 
£ :aaiew 
MH k 


£jii 

X OtjC 
cmSU 




Serpent Guard 
i/love: 2 
Defense: 4 
Morale: X f ^ 


* # 0E38 

Melee: 4 


CM 

i 

at 


£ :aaiaiAi 



Serpent Guard 

Move: 2 
Defense: 4 
Morale:X! < 


* BE39 

Melee: 4 


X at 

esiE 


E :aa|SIAi 
t!H k 

? ' 



Serpent Guard 

Move: 2 
Defense: 4 
Morale: X ¥ V 


# BE40 


Melee: 4 


I - 

28 

*3 

C4 5 




E :aapW 
l!H l 


3I01XXX0605 










































































































































































\ 


Goblin 


# BE25 




Spider-Riders 
Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X 


Melee: 3 
Charge: 4 
Missile: 1 


<mo 


t. :e|f5S!|Al 
e:aojeMO 
Z :WWI 
1 !H 1 



Z :e|issi|m 
a f a lN 

IIH V 


# BE26 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 3 


Goblin Marauders 


Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: V 


Raven's Infantry 
Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X V 



# 8E27 

Melee: 3 

+ f bonus vs. pikes 
and irregulars. 


X 0> 
CM S 


z :&9|3|fl| 

UH 1 




Raven's Infantry 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X < 


it 8E28 

Melee: 3 

+ 1 bonus vs. pikes 
and irregulars. 


£ $ 

x| 

CM 5 



Raven's Pikemen 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X < 


it BE29 

Melee: 3 

+T bonus VS. 
mounted units. 





Raven's Cavalry 

Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f ^ 


# BE30 

Melee: 3 
Charge; 4 


fl $ jj? 

x 

(mSU 


g laBje^o 
Z :a3|3|/y 



Raven's Cavalry 

Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: * ^ 


# BE31 

Melee: 3 
Charge: 4 


Goblin Archers 

Move: 1 
Defense: 2 
Morale:^ 


# BE32 

Melee: i 
Missile: 3 

+ f bonus vs. 
moun ted units. 


^ O ** 

f *. 0> 

'll! 


s; 


2 :e|!ss;||\| 
0 :ee|a|/\| 
HH i 




3101XXX0604 












































































































































































\ 


Banshegh Militia 


Move: 1 
Defense: 1 
Morale: X 



"8E1 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 1 


o 

4 ° ai 
f aft 7 * 

xB.SS t:a||SS!ift| 

04 S 2 i :03|0|fl 

1!H l 



Banshegh Patrol 


Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X f 


4b- § BE2 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 1 


o 

l iJ 

£ %% 

Ii.2 


0:enssii/y 
2:eeieiM 
l!H V 


53" 

iii'il 

* * P 
o° 




Chimaera 
Constabulary 
Move: 1 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X 


Melee: 2 
Missile: t 


a 

7! aj 


£11 

Ini.!!! 

o :a|!ssi|/\| 

oil! 

Z :aafaiAI 


1!H i 


Harpies 
Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f V 




CM 

4 TT o> 

* 

x " (r) 

cnSO 



4b- #8£4 

Melee: 3 
Charge: 4 

+1 bonus vs. 
mounted units. 


e :sBjbl|o 
Z :93|eiM 
1!H l 


ng" 
(3 (r) (r) 


? 






Iron Hand Scouts 

Move: 3 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X % 


H BEE 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 3 

Scouts ignore 
terrain penalties. 


A O .. 

m <u 

x G) 
cmT - 


5 :a li ss !IAI 
f :ae|9|AI 
i!H l 


Iron Hand Cavalry * be? 

Move: 3 5i'(r) ,ee:2 " 

Defense: 2 Charged 

Morale: ¥ ^ Missile: 3 

_ ^_ 

r 


Jt 


2 Hits 
Melee: 0 
Charge: 2 
Missile: 1 



3 :a|!SS!iAJ 

£ :o6jeM0 

l :03|0|A| 

HH l 

'j It 

^ in fe. * 




Iron bland 
Skirmishers 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X f 


* BE 6 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 2 

+ 1 bonus vs. 
irregulars, 


O 

ai 

X'V - 


l :e|iss!im 
Z :ee|a|fl| 
l!H L 


310IXXX0601 









































































































































































Magian s Riders 

Move: 2 
Defense: 8 
Morale: X T V 


CM 


rt CM 


Q> 

o> pr= 
*: a> m " 
-r ^ 5 </j 


(c) 

cmSO 



# BE9 

Melee: 4 
Charge: 5 
Missile: 4 

frwnune to all spelts. 


3QS U 


e :3|jSS!iAl 

tr :eBjeno 
£ :ae|3|rt| 
HH I- 


<D " 
'to 



Magian's Cavalry 


Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f V 



Melee: 3 
Charge: 5 
Missile: 1 


&Z* 1 

cmSOS 


{. :ei!SSjim 
t? :e6jEMD 
2 :eeieifl 
HH l 



tt BE10 


Magian's Cavalry 

Move: 3 
Defense: 3 
Morale: • ^ 

- i 


l :at!Ss;iAI 

fr :efijeL |0 

Z :ee|eiflj 
1!H l 


|| i 

X o j 

CM 5 C 


Melee: 3 
Charge: 5 
Missile: t 


# BE11 




Magian's Archers 
Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X ^ 


m m 

T cn a? " 

¦H (U W 

X 0.2 
<nEE 


# BE 12 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 4 

+T bonus vs, 
mounted units. 


E :aussiy\| 
f :aa|3W 
l!H L 



Magian's Infantry 

Move: 1 
Defense: 3 
Morale: ¥ V 


A # BE13 

Melee: 3 

+ f bonus vs. p/fres 
and /rregu/ars. 


5 8 

X o 

CM £ 


2 :ea|ew 

HH l 


Magian's Infantry 


Move: 1 
Defense: 3 
Morale: f V 



A- # BE 14 

Melee: 3 

+ ? bonus vs, ptfres 
and /rregu/ars. 



2 :ee|aw 
HH l 



Magian's Scouts 


Move: 3 
Defense: 1 
Morale: ¥ ^ 



-A- # BE 15 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 2 

Seouts ignore 
terrain penalties. 


j .. ai 

£81 

Xsi.iQ 


l :ailssi|Al 
2 :ae|e^ 
HH l 



Siren's Guard 

Move: 3 
Defense: 4 
Morale: X ¥ V 


A # BEl6 


Melee: 3 
Charge: 4 
Missile: 1 



. CD o) 


* w QJ 

y> m p= 
Qi }= cn 

Xo(r).S2 

wSuS 


:os w 


L :a|jSS!lA| 
E :a6jeijo 
Z :"WN 
MH L 


m ~CQ 

Q TO 



3I01XXX0602 






































































































































































I ° 

i2g 

TO 

<mS 


Siren's Irregulars 
Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X T 


P BE1 7 

Melee: 2 


l :aa|ayg 
l!H l 



^ Oj j| 

Xq> 

w S g :aaiaifl] 

m v 

¦W' 


Sphinx's Infantry 
Move: 2 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X ¥ 


•m- P BE18 

Melee: 3 

+ 7 bonus vs. pikes 
and irregulars 


Lions' Pride " beis 

Move: 3 Melee: 5 

Defense: 3 Charge: 6 

Morale: ¥ V 


co 


4 <u 
* £ $ 2* 
x|>j: 

<sj S Q 



s :a6jeiio 

t7 :aa|3|Ai 

1!H l 


Oi 


(Q 

o 


u 



Sphinx's Gnoll -A- # BE20 

Marauders Melee: 3 

Move: 2 Missile: 2 

> 

Defense:3 


Morale: ¥ X j 


V 


o 


f y (r) 



X o .2 t :a|issj|/\j 

/ Mfir|. 2 ai 

j :aa(ai/\| 


1!H l 


? 




Sphinx's Gnoll 
Marauders 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: T 


# BE21 


.. 0) 

£ GJ <J5 
Xu"! 
cmSS 


Melee: 3 
Missile: 2 


l :a|jSSMflj 
Z :ae|ai/\| 
l!H I. 



White Witch's 
Guard 

Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: X f 



-*• # BE23 

Melee: 4 
Charge: 5 




CO 


4 <" 

S' 

X O JC 
cmSO 


t? :06 jgmo 

£ :aa|3|AI 
l!H l 



Rjurik Irregulars * be24 

Move: 2 Melee: 2 

Defense: 2 Missile: 2 

Morale: ¥ V 



L :a|!SSj|Af 
l :aa|aiA[ 
HH L 

¦W 


* 


O 

o .. 

v a> 

x"" " 

n2S 



3I0IXXXO6O3 













































































































































o :a|!ssjyy 
V :03iaiAl 
1!H l 


Gorgon's Goblin 
Infantry 
Move: 1 
Defense: 2 
Morale: X 


* BE49 

Melee: 2 
Missile: 1 

+1 bonus vs. pik&s 
And irregulars. 




Gorgon's Troll 
Mercenaries 
Move: 2 
Defense: 4 
Morale: f V 


. # BE51 


Melee: 5 


t? :ea|av\| 
1!H I. 


Hydra's Protectors 


Move: 2 
Defense: 3 
Morale: < 



* # BE 53 

Melee: 3 
Missile: 2 

+7 bonus vs. 
mounted units . 


** 0) 
Ail 
*ii 


I. :a|iSS!iAl 
2:ee|3|AI 
1!H i 





Awnshegh Commander 

This card may stack with any units in one area. 

Any unit accompanied by its awnshegb commander automatically 
succeeds all morale checks and gains a special power. 

Spbclal Powers: 

Gorgon: +1 bonus to all meke attacks, 

Magian: Units gain a saving throw versus spells. Roll any die: an odd 
result cancels the spell's effects; an even result indicates normal 
spell effects. 

Raven: +1 to all defense ratings, 

Rhuobhe: Units treat all rout results as fall back. 

# BE55 























Vi *:£• : \> ^^ t r ^ } - • ti 

C erilia: Where gods died and kings now rule with divine powers. Where' dark 
powers contaminate flesh and blood, and evil shows its true visage in the 
abominations that stalk the land. Where monarchs both pure and corrupt 
clash over rulership of the BIRTHRIGHT 1 ' 1 campaign world! 


This book, designed for the Dungeon Master, is a guide to the most dangerous 
creatures on the face of Cerilia: the awnsbegfelfew. Sovereign rulers of their own 
realms, these dark creatures wield their power with iron fists, and many seek tp;tear 
more power from weaker leaders. These 12S pages' worth of monstrous dictators 
and wandering nightmares will strike fear into the hearts of all blooded rulers from 
the Sea of Storms to the Isle of the Serpent! 


,'3V *£* 


TSR, Inc. 

201 Sheridan Springs Rd. 
Lake Geneva 
W] 53147 
U.S.A, 



Sug. Retail 


TSR Lid. 
120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


U.S. $18.00 


CAN $23.00 U.K. £10.99 


Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Is a regisiccvd trademark owned by TSR, lac . 
Birthright and the TSR logo arc trademarks owned by TSR, ln,t, 

(c)1995 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A, 


















