Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09406 WGM 1 Border Watch"
See other formats
WGM1 

ACCESSORY 


for 4-6 characters of levels 1-3 


Advanced D un%eonsjy ragons 


Border 





























































































































































One square = 10 feet 




1 

1 





3 






. 

15 


it 




i 




















































































































Official Game 
Adventure 


Borderwatch 


Credits: 


Table of Contents 


Design: Paul T. Riegel 
Editing; Andrew Steven Harris 
Cover Art: Paul Jaquays 
Interior Art: Erie Hotz 
Cartography: Chris Ferris 
Production: Robert Repp 


Introduction.. 

Greatwall.. 

Ambush!_...._ 

Fort Disaster.....*.15 

Behold Barduk.........18 

The Cragson Mines.............26 

The Secret Base..-. 29 


TSR, Inc, TSR Ltd. 

POP 756 120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 

Lake Geneva Cambridge CB1 3LB 

WI 53147 U.S.A. United Kingdom 

Random House and its affiliate comps nies have worldwide distribution 
rights iit die book trade for English language products of TSR, hie. Distrib 
uted to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Dis 
tributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, WORLD OF GREYHAWK 
and GREYHAWK are registered trademarks owned by TSR, liie. 

DUNGEON MASTER, DM, and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by 
TSR, hie. 

Alt TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses 
thereof are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc, 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of Lite United States of 
America, Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or 
artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written con 
sent of. TSR, Inc. 

Copyright (c) 1993 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved- Printed in the U.S.A. 

ISBN 1-56076-631-X 
9406XXX1501 


Thanks to the playtesters from the Wanna Play Role Playing 
Gamers-they know who they are. Thanks also to Lisa Riegel, 
Andrew Os ten burg, William Duffy, Edward Holzman, and Kerry 
Cook. 

Special thanks to Paul J. Hollingsworth and George R. Strayton. 


00 to 




















































The war is over , . . but not for luz. 

Behind his newly-conquered borders, luz plots 
a scheme to strike at the very heart of Furyondy. 
What starts out as a simple border watch assign 
ment for the characters becomes an adventure of 
war, espionage, and intrigue that may shake their 
nation to its highest levels! 

This adventure, designed for four to eight charac 
ters of levels 1-3, takes place on the Furyondy-Iuz 
border in the wake of the recent Greyhawk Wars. 
The DUNGEON MASTER(tm) should familiarize play 
ers with the current situation in Furyondy, luz, The 
Shield Lands, and The Horned Soeiety, as detailed 
in the From The Ashes boxed set. The PCs begin the 
adventure at the citadel of Greatwall, sometime 
during the month of Patchwall (October). 

Great wall 

The war has transformed Greatwall from a sim 
ple farming village into a stronghold that stands 
against the dread forces of luz. The citadel's 
defenses have continued to expand during the 
summer months, and now nearly a quarter of the 
town's population of 3,900 belongs to the military. 

The remaining populace labors 14 hours a day 
in the fields, struggling to keep the stronghold 
self-sufficient, hut finds that it cannot survive 
without the traffic of the area merchants. Mer 
chants who do make the trek find it extremely 
profitable--usually receiving 300 percent of the 
normal market price for their goods-but despite 
the lure of such money, few take the risk. Great- 
wall stands as one of the key barriers holding luzs 
forces at bay, and the raiding parties which cross 
the Veng River make regular commerce along the 
trails impractical. 

With a small civilian population, however, and lit 
tle in the way of natural resources, Greatwall relies 
more on such merchants than even Count Artur 
Jakartai would like to admit. This means Jakartai 
must find some way to convince the merchants that 
trading with Greatwall can be both practical and 
profitable-which is where the PCs come in. 

The Mission 

Jakartai needs the trade routes reestablished, 
also has a second, secret mission for the PCs 
to accomplish that not even they know about. The 
count suspects (correctly) that luz is plotting a 
new offensive, so he must fortify Greatwall quickly 


before the Iuzian forces strike. To do that, how 
ever, he must send a large amount of gold to 
Willip, where officials there can provide Greatwall 
with the supplies necessary to survive the Iuzian 
attack and the upcoming winter. Jakartai cannot 
send the gold in several small shipments-that 
might take too long. He must also keep the ship 
ment secret, since luz would certainly cross the 
river and attack to seize that amount of gold. 

The count, therefore, has decided to conceal 
the shipment under the guise of another needed 
mission (the trade route), and has chosen several 
unknown adventurers (the PCs) to avoid appear 
ing conspicuous. The trade route takes the party a 
stone's throw away from the Iuzian border, where 
JakartaFs enemy would never suspect he would 
transport such important cargo. And, in the 
meantime, Jakartai has sent out several other 
"dummy" caravans, with more well-known adven 
turers, to throw off suspicion, 

Furthermore, because Jakartai suspects luz of 
readying a surprise attack, he has sent a secret 
agent, Jetero, to pose as a merchant in the cara 
van and collect intelligence along the way. 
Because the route skirts the Veng, Jetero will have 
the opportunity to keep close track of the Iuzian 
troop movements and report back to Jakartai 
upon the mission's completion. 

Thus, while the PCs may not realize it, they 
hold the future of Greatwall-and perhaps all of 
Furyondy-in their hands. 

The Adventurers 

The PCs do not currently lead a very exciting 
life in Greatwall. Perhaps they grew up in town, 
and saw it transformed from a small farming vil 
lage into a war-forged stronghold. Perhaps they 
became adventurers by fighting in the war, or per 
haps they came to Greatwall as part of one of the 
many merchant caravans that once passed 
through to or from Willip. 

By now, however, the PCs have had a chance to 
explore all that Greatwall has to offer, which isn't 
much. Individuals can join the local militia, work 
the fields, or work as an artisan. If the PCs join 
the militia, they will get the exciting task of stand 
ing guard duty for eight hours a night without any 
recognition for their diligence. There is no glory 
in working the fields, and adventuring skills do 
not usually lend themselves to artisanship. 

The PCs have, however, managed to get some 


Introduction 


2 


















practical experience by helping to fend off a few of 
the initial raids sent against the citadel in the 
war's aftermath. Such border raids break the 
monotony of citadel life, but are too erratic and 
unspectacular to provide any ongoing excitement. 
After one such minor expedition, as the PCs sit in 
Great wall's only tavern, The Behir and Beholder, 
that the real excitement finally begins. 


Batlet, a small hamlet guarded by a border post 
nicknamed Fort Disaster. The PCs soon find out 
why it has earned its nickname--it is almost 
always under attack. Indeed, another attempt to 
break the fort comes during the PCs' stay, and the 
PCs again see that their companion Jetero is more 
than he seems. 

The fourth leg of the trip takes the party mem 
bers to the Crystal River, where they stumble 
across a nighttime orcish caravan fording the 
waters to head into Furyondy. Defeating the ores, 
the PCs find the wagon filled with foodstuffs and 
other supplies-a peculiar cargo for ores, who usu 
ally simply take what they need by raiding. This bit 
of information tips Jetero off to the fact that luz 
must be building a secret stronghold inside of Fury 
ondy itself, and he realizes he must warn Jakartai 
as soon as possible. Reaching Barduk, Jetero 
reveals himself to the PCs and asks them to take 
his secret journal to a Ranger contact nearby, who 
will bring the intelligence information to Jakartai. 

The PCs meet Jetero's strange contact: A lizard- 
man ranger, unnaturally intelligent for his race and 
who has aligned himself with the side of good. The 
lizard man lives in the woods near the Crystal River 
with a female druid, guarding a group of Shield 
Land refugee children whose families perished dur 
ing the war. The PCs pass on their information to 
the lizardman, and discover through conversation 
that the sergeant at Greatwall has betrayed Fury 
ondy. Realizing Jetero's life may be in jeopardy, the 
PCs rush back to Barduk to warn him. 

Back at Barduk, however, luz's forces have 
sprung a surprise attack. The purpose of the 
attack is not so much to damage Barduk as it is to 
cover an assassination: that of Jetero. The PCs 
return just in time to find the orcish raiders 
retreat and Jetero die before their eyes. 

An investigation by the PCs reveals Jetero's 
killer, a drow agent for luz. The drow, under inter 
rogation, confirms that luz has set up a secret 
base within Furyondy, and barters his life in 
exchange for its location, The PCs head to that 
location and launch a strike against the strong 
hold, aided by some of Barduk's men. After a 
pitched battle with the humanoid leadership at 
the secret base, the party breaks luz's plans, and 
saves Furyondy from a deadly attack within. The 
caravan continues on to Willip under protection 
from Barduk's men, while the PCs return to 
Greatwall, hailed as heroes. 


Adventure Summary 


Here is how the story will most likely unfold for 
the adventurers: 

The party, spending a quiet night in Greatwall, 
suddenly finds itself brought before Captain Gill- 
more, head of the Greatwall guard, Gillmore tells 
them of his need for adventurers for an important 
mission leaving at dawn-a caravan, leaving for 
Willip, to bring crucial supplies to the border 
posts along the Veng Riven The expedition will 
then return and bring similar supplies to back to 
Greatwall. 

Unknown to Gillmore, however, there is a traitor 
in his midst; his sergeant, Krayquer, has sold out to 
luz, and as the sergeant briefs the PCs on their mis 
sion he feeds them false information. Then Kray 
quer tells the enemy forces that a Fury on di an 
secret agent named Jetero will accompany the car 
avan, and to lay plans to assassinate him. 

The party, meanwhile, meets with the caravan's 
merchants to discuss the trip, and then sets out 
with them in the morning. The first leg of the trip 
passes uneventfully, but during the second leg the 
party finds a destroyed wagon train, similar to their 
own. Investigating, they find the body of Jetero's 
twin brother, a merchant named Jasmalus who 
traveled this route, and whom Jetero impersonated 
for this trip. Through misfortune, the orcish raiders 
stumbled onto his brother's caravan first, and, 
thinking his brother to be the secret agent, 
attacked. The raiders realized their mistake when 
they could not find the important government doc 
uments the caravan should have carried, and so set 
up traps to spring another ambush. 

After defeating the ambush, the party heads to 
Fort Belvor, named after Furyondy's ruler, which 
sits across the Veng from one of Iuz's most power 
ful strongholds, Molag, Here, the PCs begin to see 
something of Jetero's true nature, as an orcish 
catapult attack comes just as Jetero meets with 
his secret agent contact. 

From Belvor, the caravan heads to the village of 


Introduction 












greatwall 

Read the following to the players: 


You sit in The Behir and Beholder, the 
only tavern in Greatwall, taking the chill off 
the autumn night. Suddenly, the front door 
bangs open and three Greatwall guards 
enter. You recognize them as a sergeant and 
two men-at-arms. As they approach you, 
you see another three Greatwall guards 
enter through the back door and head 
toward your table* 

As they arrive, the sergeant-a harsh-look- 
ing human with a long scar on the left side of 
his face-- turns to you with his finger pointed* 

"You . . . and you . . . and you * , T He 
identifies each of you in turn, then barks a 
command: "Your presence is required by 
the captain of the Greatwall guard. Gome 
with me." 


PCs who refuse or demand a further explana 
tion are summarily arrested. If any resist, 
remind the players that fighting the citadel 
guard at a time of near-war might be considered 
act of treason. If PCs persist, run a combat 
in which the sergeant (a 6th-level fighter) and 
five guards (4th-level fighters) attempt to sub 
due them. In the miraculous possibility that 
things go badly for the sergeant and his men, 
have the citizens in the tavern continue to 
fetch more city guard until the PCs relent. (Of 
the PCs at this point will have some 
explaining to do). 


which Sergeant Kravquer has brought you 
here," Gillmore begins, his deep voice res 
onating throughout the vast chamber. "But 
our time grows short. Please sit down and 
relax, as I have something which I need to 
discuss with you*" He claps his hands twice, 
and two servers appear with jugs of wine 
and begin serving you. Then he orders 
everyone else besides you and Krayquer out 
of the room. 

When all have left, Gillmore begins. 

"As you are aware, luz and his forces of 
evil continue to pressure us, despite the 
peace agreement* This jeopardizes Great- 
walPs strategic position; we rely almost 
entirely on outside sources for supplies, and 
the violence has made the journey here too 
unprofitable for most merchants. Even our 
traditional trading partners in WiUip refuse 
to take the risk. 

"I need to prove to them they can make 
the trip safely and profitably. This is where 
you come in* 

"1 wish you to escort a caravan of three 
merchant wagons to Willip and back. The 
caravan leaves tomorrow at dawn and must 
return as quickly as possible, before winter 
strikes* The wagons carry traditional trade 
goods, to be exchanged for the food and sup 
plies we will need to survive the oncoming 
winter, luz's raids have occupied my forces 
so completely that I must turn to you. 

"You must use the old Grabford-Gritwall- 
Willip trail to resupply the border posts and 
to show the Willip merchants that it can 
still be traveled safely* I understand this will 
put you along the Veng River, a stone's 
throw from the land of luz. Fear not-bor 
der patrols guard the riverbanks from luz's 
incursions, 

"For your heroic service to Greatwall, I 
will award you each 1,000 gold pieces upon 
your return." He claps his hands again and 
the sergeant re-enters with several sacks, 
each containing 250 gp. "This additional 
payment should be enough to cover what 
ever expenses you might have before you 
leave," He pauses again and looks at each of 
you confidently. "Well, my friends . . . what 
do you say?" 


The sergeant escorts you, under guard, 
into the main hall of Greatwall Keep itself, a 
giant pillared room containing a massive, 
wall-length hearth. A raging fire warms the 
barren marble walls and floor, and illumi 
nates a long and wide oaken table covered 
with parchment and maps* 

After about 10 minutes the guards snap 
to attention as double doors at the end of 
the hall swing open. In strides Gillmore, 
}f the Greatwall guard, a well-built 
man with a war-hardened face but a manner 
more cordial than the sergeant who escorted 

I must apologize for the manner in 




















Qreatwall 


Gillmore refuses to haggle over the price, 
and seems offended at the very notion of per 
sonal greed outweighing the need to save Great- 
wall from luz. Should the PCs refuse the offer, 
Gillmore jails them for treason and eventually 
executes them unless they relent. Should they 
agree, he concludes their business: 


" Sergeant Krayquer here will brief you on 
the mission. The merchant Malin, and two 
trader comrades, shall meet you at the 
citadel gates at dawn tomorrow. You may 
meet them tonight at The Behir and 
Beholder, if you wish." 


Gillmore then departs, leaving Krayquer to 
inform the party about the specifics of their 
mission. Unknown to Gillmore, however, Kray 
quer is secretly an agent who has sold his loy 
alty to the forces of luz. In fact, Krayquer 
picked the party members for this mission 
specifically because he knew of their inexperi 
ence and expects they will not survive to tell of 
his treachery. 

To guarantee that they do not, however, 
Krayquer briefs the PCs with false information. 


lie does not tell the party anything glaringly 
untrue, but he does distort and mislead enough 
to put the party in jeopardy. He gives incorrect 
travel times between border posts, inappropri 
ate terrain information and inaccurate descrip 
tions of orcish raiding tactics. 

He remains characteristically rude and unsa 
vory during the briefing; this should (hopefully) 
cement the information in players' minds 
enough that they remember who told it to them 
when things start going wrong. 

Most importantly, however, Krayquer 
instructs the PCs to kill any lizardmen on 
sight. Krayquer knows of Jetero's secret con 
tact in the woods, and that the lizardman has 
nearly stumbled across his true allegiance sev 
eral times. He suspects Jetero may attempt to 
contact the lizardman along the way, and 
doesn't want the PCs to make any connections 
between what the lizardman says and his own 
behavior. 

If the PCs ask for an explanation, Krayquer 
tells them luz uses lizardmen as spies who 
travel unhindered beneath the waters of the 
Veng. In reality, this isn't true; there are hardly 
any lizardmen in the area at all. 

Krayquer does give the PGs an accurate map 























































































































































































Jasmalus, 5tli-level Wizard: Str 8, Dex 12, Con 
10, Int 18, Wis 12, Cha 14; hp 16; AC 10; 
THACO 19; Dmg spells or by weapon (dagger); 
AL NG. 

Spells: magic missile , shield , sleep, stinking 
cloud t web, fireball. 


Jasmalus, a human in his mid-50s, stands a 
full 6 ? 1" but weighs only 155 pounds, giving 
him a frail and tired look. His solid white hair 
tapers into a nicely-trimmed beard and mus 
tache, but his clothing suggests a ragged beg 
gar more than it does a well-groomed 
merchant. This inconsistent appearance pro 
vides a clue that Jasmalus is not what he 
seems-in fact, he is not Jasmalus at all. He is 
Jetero, Jasmalus's twin brother, who works as 
a secret agent for the count. Jetero frequently 
poses as his merchant brother to travel to dif 
ferent areas without suspicion, as he plans to 
do now. 

Jetero (as Jasmalus) must guarantee the 
safety of the gold, and collect intelligence on 
luzian troop movements in an effort to deter 
mine when Iuz will strike. Jakarta! suspects 
that luz's border raids conceal a much larger 
hidden agenda, and it is Jetero's task to uncover 
it. 

Neither Malin nor Emerald have had much 
contact with Jasmalus over the years, so do not 
suspect the ruse. 

The PCs have the opportunity to discuss the 
journey with the merchants, including any spe 
cial preparations they might have to make. The 
merchants will suggest the PCs use the gold 
they received from Gillmore to buy horses, 
even though the caravan travels slowly; the PCs 
can command more of a deterrent presence 
from horseback, and can deal with crisis more 
effectively on horseback than if they rode up on 
the wagons. 

None of the merchants will engage in combat 
unless absolutely necessary; they are poorly 
armed and armored, and after all, that's why 
Gillmore hired the PCs onto the journey. When 
combat strikes, they will help the teamsters 
control the horses, put out any wagon fires 
started by flaming arrows (a favorite tactic of 
the ores), and generally take cover inside, 
under, or behind the wagons. 

The ores, meanwhile, make little effort to 


of their route. Show players the color map on 
the outside gatefold of the module, and allow 
them to reference it during the adventure. 


Malm, 3rd-level Fighter: Str 13, Dex 10, Con 
14, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 16; hp 20; AC 10; 
Til AGO 18; Dmg by weapon (dagger); AL LN. 

Malin, a boisterous middle-aged man, stands 
5'9" and weighs about 50 pounds more than he 
should. His full brown beard and mustache 
frame a fun-loving face, but grey has begun to 
streak his chestnut-brown hair. Similarly, a 
grumpy demeanor now occasionally colors his 
regular exuberance, usually when he drinks too 
much (like now). Once the dealmaking begins, 
however, both grumpiness and exuberance van 
ish, and Malin turns into as cutthroat a mer 
chant as they come. 


Emerald, 3rd4evel Thief: Str 8, Dex 15, Con 
11, Int 17, Wis 14, Cha 18; hp 16; AC 10; 
THACO 19; Dmg by weapon (dagger); AL CG. 
Thief Abilities: PP 50%, OL 35%, F/RT 30%, MS 
25%, HS 25%, HN 15%, CW 85%. 


Emerald, a beautiful, poised, half-elven 
female, stands only 5 r and weighs a mere 90 
pounds. Her flowing, sandy-brown hair offsets 
her piercing green eyes, and at only 24 years 
old, she holds an unusual position of statute in 
her community. She uses both her beauty and 
her age to skillfully disarm her negotiating 
opponents. She has traveled extensively with 
Malin, who has become a bit of a father figure 
to her. He tutors her in the art of dealmak 
ing, and she keeps him from turning into a 
grump. 


fjreatwall 


Contacting the Merchants 


After meeting with Krayquer, players can 
find the trio of merchants-Malin, Emerald, 
and Jasmalus-at The Behir and Beholder. 
The PCs recognize them as having entered the 
bar for dinner shortly before the sergeant and 
his men appeared. Malin and Emerald now 
drink together at a table, while Jasmalus sits 
in a corner booth by himself having a quiet 
cup of tea. 



















I 


I 



CjreatwaLL 


attack the merchants; they're not entirely stu 
pid, and know that the caravan guards pose the 
true hazard. Once the guards are gone, the 
teamsters and the weakling merchants become 
easy pickings. 

If the party appears in jeopardy, Jetero may 
casts spells to aid them, but he will keep his 
efforts concealed-perhaps casting from behind 
a wagon, or when the PCs are too occupied by 
combat to notice, Jasmalus is not known to 
have any magical ability, and Jetero does not 
want to raise any suspicions from Malin or 
Emerald. 

Occasionally on the trail, party members 
may see Jasmalus making notes in a small 
book, particularly when the trail winds near the 
river. These notes are for Jakartai, constituting 
Jetero's records of Iuzian troop movements and 
similar observations, Jetero guards this book 
closely, and would prefer to keep its existence 
hidden entirely. Nevertheless, he recognizes 
the impossibility of doing that when traveling 
so closely with so many people for so long. 


If any question him on it, he describes it as 
his "personal diary" and asks that the inquisi 
tive person respect his privacy. He will feign 
offense at any further attempts to discover the 
journal's contents. 

He has also protected the book with two 
magic mouth spells-one that shouts "Alarm!" 
when the book is picked up by anyone other 
than Jetero, and one that shouts "Alarm!" 
when someone other than him opens it. 


i 































































































Mmbusfi! 


Three wagons arrive at the citadel gates at 
dawn. Each carries a teamster (driver) and one 
of the merchants. The teamsters, rough-looking 
men, appear as if they pulled their wagons 
themselves rather than drove them. 

Heavy tarps cover the wagon crates. The 
merchants tell inquisitive characters the crates 
contain general supplies, but they hold some 
thing far more important: GreatwalTs collected 
treasury of nearly 50,000 gp in gold and silver 
bars, along with important government docu 
ments about the citadel. The wagons do carry 
some supplies, mostly to cover the more impor 
tant shipment, and which the merchants will 
sell along the way. 

Disuse has allowed the early part of the old 
trail to become overgrown recently, but deeply- 
cut ruts, from the commerce that once flour 
ished along the route, still mark it well enough. 
Flat, open grassland dominates the first part of 
the trail until the road winds eastward to follow 
the Veng River. 


Encounters on the Trail 


The trail is a dangerous place; friendly 
encounters are few and far between. Random 
encounters are optional (particularly for a 
beginning party). Dungeon Masters who want to 
give their parties an extra challenge can check 
for encounters as per page 101 of the 
DUNGEON MASTER(tm) Guide (about one 
encounter every three or four days). Use the 
encounter tables in the From the Ashes boxed 
set during the daytime, and use the following 
table for nighttime encounters. 


Id8 Roll Encounter 

1 Wolves 

2-3 Ore Raiding Party 

4 Bandit Raiding Party 

5 Goblins 

6 Giant Badger 

7 Fire Beetles 

8 Destroyed Wagon 


Wolves (1-6): These beasts attack only if they 

Int Semi; AL N; AG 7; 
THACG 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
!; ML Avg (10); XP 65, 


8 






















I 

* 



When the party nears the wagons, read the 
following boxed text. 


fXmhusfil 


Once the cavalrymen depart, the DM should 
convey a sense of vulnerability to the players; 
the PCs now stand alone against the raiding ore 
and hobgoblin hordes. Despite such tension, 
the caravan reaches Mors ten without incident 
(unless the DM chooses to roll for random 
encounters) ? 

Characters will have little chance to explore 
Mors ten; they arrive in the evening and 
be ready to leave again at first light. 


Ore Raiding Party: The ores are on their way to 
a raid (2d4+8 ores if before midnight) or on 
their way back from a raid (ld6+5 ores if after 
midnight). Ores: Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; 
HD 1; hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15, All 
ore raiders carry a short bow. In addition, 50% 
carry an axe and 50% carry a broad sword. 

Bandit Raiding Party: The bandits are on their 
way to a raid (ld6 + 6 bandits if before mid 
night) or on their way back (ldS+4 bandits if 
after midnight). Bandits: lnt Avg; AL CE; AC 7; 
MV 9; HD 1; hp 5; THACO 20; Dmg by weapon; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Avg (10); XP 15. All 
bandits carry short bows and short swords. 


Goblins ( 1 - 10 ): Goblins who have long plagued 
the Veng River valley spot the caravan at it 
travels along the riverbank. Goblins: hit Low; 
AL LE; AC 6; MV 6; HD 1-1; hp 4; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ 3; 
ML Avg (10); XP 15, All goblins carry axes. 


Giant Badgers (1-3): lnt Semi; AL N; AC 4; MV 
6; HD 3; hp 14; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1- 
3/1-6; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M ML Avg (8); XP 65. 


Fire Beetles (3-12); Int Non; AL N; AC 4; MV 
12; HD 1+2; hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; 
SA Nil; S13 Nil; SZ S; ML Steady (12); XP 35. 


Destroyed Wagon: The PCs come upon the 
charred remains of a cart and several ravaged 
bodies. From the look of the corpses, it appears 
that the attack took place only about a day ago. 
The small farming family ventured onto the 
trail to flee the increasing number of raids near 
their town along the Iuzian border when a band 
of hobgoblins fell upon them. 


The Trip to Fort Belvor 


Unease builds during the second leg of the 
journey as the caravan begins to skirt the Veng 
River, the only barrier that separates Furyondy 
from several thousand bloodthirsty Iuzian 
troops. The leg takes eight days, and 
beginning of the last day both the teamsters 
merchants have grown significantly nervous. 
The teamsters push the wagons as fast as they 
dare go, but they eventually push too much, and 
a wagon throws a wheel in the late morning. 

This takes more than four hours to fix, and 
sets the caravan back considerably; Malm had 
hoped to reach Fort Belvor by nightfall* Now 
the caravan must either travel in darkness-far 
too dangerous in this area-or find a safe 
to camp. Still, Malm insists on pressing the car- 
avail for as far as it can go before bedding down 
for the night. 

As they press on, reading the following. 


The Trip to Morsten 


The teamsters press the wagons at the fastest 
possible, speed--about 15 miles a day-so the 
merchants expect the journey to take a little 
more than a month. The trip to Morsten should 
take about six days. An escort of 10 Greatwall 
cavalrymen accompanies the party for the first 
half of the first day, but then turns back toward 
the citadel, leaving the caravan on its own* 


Tensions run high as dusk begins to fall, 
and you plainly see fires burning in the dis 
tance on Iuzian side of the riven Then you 
slowly realize that one of the fires isn't from 
across the river at all, but on the winding 
trail up ahead. When the trail straightens 
out, the source of the fire comes into view: a 
burning wagon, on its side in the middle of 
the road, part of an ambushed three-wagon 
train. 


















tXmbusfi! 



You see that the middle of three wagons 
lays overturned and virtually demolished on 
the road. To the right lies the charred 
wagon, still smoldering. To the left stands a 
third wagon, apparently undamaged but 
awash with blood. Large spots of blood also 
dot the surrounding area, but you see no 
signs of bodies anywhere. Cargo from the 
three wagons lies ransacked arid scattered 
across the roadway, but little appears taken. 
You also note numerous crudely-fletched 
arrows lying among the cargo, several 
charred near their arrowheads. 


simply read this to them as they poke through 
the wreckage.) 


Characters who scan the surrounding area 
note several small copses of trees set apart from 
the woodland beyond; in one of them they can 
find the nine bodies of the caravan members 
who died in the raid. 

One of the bodies will provide some surprise: 
It is Jasmalus, Jetero's twin, killed by a dagger 
thrust in the back. Thieves immediately recog 
nize the dagger as the mark of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood, and easily note the poison com 
partment concealed in the hilt-now empty. 

The discovery shocks and upsets Jetero, but 
he does not reveal his ruse; continuing to call 
himself Jasmalus, Jetero gives his brother his 
own name and describes him as a merchant 
who also frequented this area. (The module, to 
emphasize his double-role, will continue to 
refer to the PCs' traveling companion as 
"Jetero", but the DM should remember to call 
him "Jasmalus" when speaking of him to the 
players.) 

The pretense is a difficult one for Jetero, but 
he resolves to grieve privately later. As an agent 
for Jakarta!, he long ago steeled himself to the 
sorrows of war, and recognizes that the needs of 
Furyondy supersede his own personal pain. 

Still, he insists that the caravan's members 
receive a proper burial, which will take several 
hours. Malin appears reluctant but agrees, 
resolving to spend the time sifting through the 
caravan's cargo for anything of measurable 
worth. 

As the PCs begin to dig the graves, read to 
them the following boxed text. (The PGs may 
decide not to look for bodies; if that occurs, 


You suddenly hear a loud "snap" come 
from the woods nearby. Looking up, you see 
an ore, spying oil you, appearing alarmed at 
having mode such a noise. In a fit of panic, he 
turns to run, and disappears into the woods. 


This is a ploy intended to lure characters 
away from the caravan. An ore raiding party 
waits in ambush, with orders to kill Jetero. The 
ores had originally attacked Jasmalus's caravan, 
mistaking him for Jetero, who was delayed by 
the thrown wheel. It was mere coincidence that 
Jasmalus, an area merchant, carried a shipment 
from Belvor to Mors ten at the same time that 
Jetero traveled in the opposite direction. 

The ores soon realized their mistake when 
they could not locate the special government 
documents Jetero's caravan carries. They now 
lie in wait, the woodlands in the area nearby 
trapped to capture and kill anyone going into 
them. 

Anyone following the ore on horseback has a 
75% chance per round of tripping one of the 
traps. Anyone pursuing on foot has a 50% chance 
per round of tripping a trap. The area is infested 
with these traps; anyone moving even a few feet 
has a chance of stumbling across a new one. 

The decoy ore, of course, knows where the 
traps are laid, and tries to draw pursuers 
directly into them; anyone on the verge of 
reaching him has a 10% higher chance of trip 
ping a trap that round. The DM can either pick 
the trap or roll for it randomly (ld3): 

Pit Trap: The ores have dug these 10-foot 
wide, 5-foot-deep trenches to lame any horse 
falling into them, Each pit also contains a bed 
of sharpened spikes. Horses tumbling in suffer 
Jd6+2 damage and have a 75% chance of falling 
lame. Those on horseback must make a Riding 
proficiency check or be thrown to the pit floor, 
and those without the proficiency must make a 
Dexterity check at -8. Those failing suffer 
ld3 + l (horses, being larger, suffer more dam 
age from the spikes). 

Those simply walking across a pit trigger it 
only 50% of the time, since the ores designed 
them to collapse under a horse's weight. 















I 


Net Trap: These nets xSpring up from under 
neath a carpet of leaves whenever a hoof or foot 
snags a tripwire. The nets usually catch only the 
front end of the horse, causing it to rear up and 
possibly throw the rider (the nets cannot actu 
ally entrap an entire horse). Characters with the 
Riding proficiency can control their horses on a 
successful check, while those without the profi 
ciency must make a Dexterity check at -8. Those 
failing the check are thrown; those succeeding 
remain mounted but must spend the next round 
allowing the horse to regain its footing. Thrown 
riders suffer ld6 falling damage. 

Individuals on foot may be caught by a net 
trap if they fail to make a Dexterity check at -4; 
it takes three rounds to escape a net, during 
which time attackers gain a -h4 to hit. 

Log Traps: A log tied back and suspended 
high enough so that when the horse triggers the 
trap, the log swings down and hits the rider full 
force. Victims suffer IdlO damage and must 
make a Strength check at (MS) 10 to remain 
mounted (falling inflicts ld4 damage). This trap 
has no effect on unmounted characters; the 
logs swing over their heads. 

Once the traps have sprung, the ores attack. 
Ore Group One leaps out of the woods in front 
of the caravan and opens fire with shortbow, 
using flaming arrows to set the wagons ablaze. 
This slows their rate of fire to 1/round, but the 
arrows inflict an extra point of damage against 
people (ld6-tl) or force target objects to save 
against fire (wagons are thick wood against nor 
mal fire). Once all the wagons are ablaze, the 
archers turn their attention to the party. A 
wagon, once ablaze, becomes completely awash 
in flames in ld4 rounds unless someone 
attempts to control the fire (the merchants and 
teamsters can do this automatically, though it 
takes them ld6 rounds to put the fire out com 
pletely). 

Ore Group One (4): hit Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 
9; HD 1; hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); 
XP 15. All wield short bows and hand axes. 

One round after the archers launch their 
first volley, Ore Groups Two and Three crash 
onto the trail from the woods behind the cara 
van. One group attacks from each side to cut off 
retreat. The ores first attack any PCs who did 


fXmhusfil 

not pursue the lone ore into the woods; if all 
PCs followed the ore, then both ambush groups 
converge on Jetero. 

Ore Groups Two & Three (4 each): Int Avg; AL 
LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML 
Steady (12); XP 15. All wield broadswords. 

The ores fight until their morale fails, then 
flee through the trapped area of the woods. 

The possibility exists, of course, that the PCs 
do not attempt to pursue the lone ore. If this 
occurs, the ores simply launch their ambush 
attack but receive a -2 penalty to their morale 
scores. 

If the PCs capture any ores alive they may 
interrogate them, but must speak orcish. The 
ores will spout for a few minutes in racial pride 
and false bravado, but they're just ambush 
troops and not really courageous at all. After a 
few minutes of threats from the PGs, the ores 
will break down and beg for mercy, telling the 
party all it wishes to know. They tell of orders 
to attack a three-wagon caravan that was to 
have passed by a few hours earlier, with a mer 
chant resembling Jetero. When the caravan 
they attacked did not have the proper govern 
ment documents ("writin's;" the ores say), they 
realized they had ambushed the wrong caravan 
and set up for another attack. They do not 
know who issued the order to attack, only that 
an orog commander relayed it to them. 

If questioned about the dagger, they say that 
a human brought it to their orog leader several 
days earlier (Sergeant Krayquer, actually). If 
pressed for a description of the human, the ores 
simply shrug and say that all humans look the 
same. 

The ores can also tell of the local raids, and a 
bit about their nearby forces, but know nothing 
of the secret base inside Fury on dy. 

The party can set off at daybreak and reach 
Fort Reiver well before noon. Five cavalrymen 
from the fort meet the caravan five miles out 
side the fort and escort it in. 

Fort Belvor 

Read the following to the players. 










tZmbusfi! 






As you approach the fort, you see it sits 
directly across the Veng River from the 
Horned Society capital of Molag, now under 
luzian control- Tt is an old fort, with an 
intact but deteriorating 3 O'-high curtain 
wall surrounding the main compound. Two 
towers on the curtain wall side face the 
Veng River, while a massive gatehouse faces 
the west. 

You pass through an abandoned village 
outside the stronghold; the people still 
come here during the day to tend the fields 
and graze their livestock, but all have left 
the village for the safety of the fort. Many of 
the buildings stand burned or battered: 
damaged by the war, assaulted by raiders, or 
cannibalized for their resources. 

The cavalrymen escort you toward the 
massive pair of banded wooden gates, 
guarded by four halberdmen standing duty 
outside. With the approach of the wagons, 
the massive doors swing wide, and the cara- 
van enters the fort itself. 


Malm and Emerald set up shop almost imme 
diately and begin to sell things to the citizenry. 
Jetero helps with setup but later disappears, to 
meet with his contact in Belvor. If questioned 
later on his disappearance, he simply says he 
went to visit an old friend, to tell him of his 
brother "JeteroV death. In actuality, he met 
with Mi kin us, head of the Belvor guard, to tell 
him of the ambush on the road. He has deduced 
that Greatwall must have a traitor in its midst, 
since the ambushing ores knew of his presence. 

As the PCs wander around the fort, read the 
following. 


Looking about the fort, you notice the 
fort's garrison stands somewhat depleted 
when compared to the troop presence in 
Greatwall. Judging by the size of the fort, it 
should hold more than 250 men, but has 
only about half of that. You're also unable 
to miss the signs of flame arrow attacks, 
and the numerous water buckets strategi 
cally positioned in anticipation of the next 
attack. 


'is) dJxtJMsur^ mjy Yj ,r 













































SXmbusfi! 


As you wander about, the inhabitants 
of the fort recognize you as outsiders and del 
uge you with questions of the outside world, it 
becomes clear that they have little opportu 
nity to stray far from the safety of the fort, and 
that, at least for them, the war is still very real 


The DM should roleplay with the players, as 
locals bombard them with questions about this 
hamlet and that hamlet, which ones survived 
the war, and have they seen their 
sister/brother/cousin from village so-and-so. A 
bard will become especially popular here. 
When the PCs have had enough of this, allow 
them to explore the fort and resupply them 
selves with anything they might need for the 
next leg of the journey. 

General supplies are limited (200% of PH 
listed price, and nothing too unusual), but the 
PCs can barter down to normal prices in 
exchange for adequate news of the outside 
world. The fort guard can replace arms and 
armor (within reasonable limits) for free, and 
clerics will also freely heal injured party mem 
bers. Residents of the fort still consider this 
wartime, and pitch in however they can. 

The captain of the guard, Mikinus, meets the 
PCs after they return to the caravan and offers 
them drinks and dinner. He expresses his grati 
tude for the supplies they have delivered and 
says that he wants to discuss the orcish attacks 
they've seen on the trail. 

In actuality, however, he seeks to test if any 
in the caravan have betrayed Furyondy, con 
cerned about the information that Jetero has 
passed to him. Read his opening discussion to 
the players. 


"Ores seem to have some kind of plan to 
keep us pinned here, and they do a fine job 
of it. They're also not alone-we've seen 
more and more human bandit raids, proba 
bly from the former Bandit Kingdoms. It's 
strange, too, that we've seen so many ores- 
this area used to be attacked mostly by hob 
goblins, so I suppose that means luz is 
moving his troops. They tell us the war is 
over, but it sure doesn't seem that way from 
here," 


If the PCs talk at length with Mikinus about 
the area-which he is happy to do, to pump 
them for information-they can get more accu 
rate Information about travel times, terrain, 
and enemy tactics. The DM can use Mikinus to 
contradict Sergeant Krayquer's information, 
and thus give players more of a fighting chance 
out on the trail, 

Mikinus knows nothing of Krayquer, and if 
asked about the difference in information, he 
laughs and says, "That's what you get for listening 
to a backfield sergeant who won't come close to 
the fighting." He has trouble doubting the word of 
a Furyondian soldier, however; more likely, he 
secretly suspects the PCs have deliberately dis 
torted the information for the merchants. 

If asked about Itzardmen, Mikinus shakes his 
head and says that he hasn't heard about any 
sightings in the area at all. 

After the PCs have retired, at around mid 
night, read the following to the players. 


What you hoped would be a quiet night 
off the trail becomes a flurry of shouts and 
the sounds of running guardsmen. As you 
wake, you hear the sound of a fiery catapult 
shot soar above the Veng river and crash 
down in a loud explosion near the base of 
the fort. The walls shudder from the impact, 
and patches of plaster and dust fall from the 
ceiling. You race to the window to see the 
fiery shot tumble down into the river, which 
extinguishes it in a sizzling hiss. 

You note with relief that the shot failed to 
breach the fort's wall, just in time to see 
another fiery ball come hurtling over the 
river. This one crests the wall and lands 
inside the fortress courtyard, destroying a 
small building and setting part of the wall 
ablaze. Guardsmen race with buckets to 
extinguish the flames, while others run to 
man their posts and fortify the stronghold's 
defenses. 


Though this appears to be an emergency for 
the fort, this actually occurs almost every 
night, and the soldiers spend the large part of 
the next day fixing the damage from the night 
before, luz may one day launch a full-scale 
























Stmbusfi! 


intends only to keep the forces inside depleted 
and occupied, while he foments other plans. 

The attack continues for about an hour, with 
another catapult shot coming every Id 10 
rounds. None manage to damage the fortress 
significantly, though the attack does keep the 
stronghold's forces occupied. 

During this attack, the PCs can discover 
Jetero consulting with Mikinus in a corner near 
the fort's walk The pair had hoped to meet in 
secret, but now have been interrupted by the 
ore attack. As a catapult shot sails overhead, 
the flames illuminate the courtyard and the 
PCs catch a glimpse of Jetero and Mikinus in a 
heated exchange. 

It is unlikely that PCs will be able to reach 
the two before they part ways and disappear 
into the fort, but if they do, they catch only bits 
of a conversation drowned out by the chaos in 
the fort. They hear Mikinus attempt to con 
vince Jetero that the PCs are untrustworthy, 
his suspicions fueled by the inaccurate infor 


mation they spoke to him about, while Jetero 
refuses, convinced of the PCs' loyalty by their 
bravery in fighting on the trail. 

If the PCs later question Jetero about the 
meeting, he denies it, suggesting that they mis 
took someone else for him during the tumult of 
the attack. If the PCs actually catch the pair in 
the act, Mikinus orders the pair back to their 
rooms and Jetero explains that he only sought 
the captain's attention to get a guard posted by 
the wagon cargo. He denies that the conversa 
tion related to the PCs, claiming that they must 
have heard incorrectly among the din. 

Characters might wish to help the soldiers 
cope with the attack-putting out flames, tend 
ing to the injured, or standing watch against an 
ore raid. If they do, Mikinus J s opinion of them 
changes considerably, and he outfits all of them 
with fresh steel before their departure in the 
morning. 

At daybreak, the merchants cheek their 
cargo (undamaged) and head out for Batlet. 


y 


14 

































I 



( Tort 'Disaster 


The trail turns southwest, with terrain of 
rolling hills and small patches of trees. The trip 
to Batlet takes eight days, and Mai in orders the 
caravan to bypass Fendrelan to make up for 
lost time. The DM can roll for encounters nor- 
mally, or, if the PCs have fared well up to this 
point, might insert the optional encounter 
listed below. The attack occurs just after the 
party has descended one hill into a small valley 
and begins to climb another hill. 


The Ambush 


Three groups of ores, along with their lead 
ers, have strategically positioned themselves in 
the area. One group hides on the trail ahead, 
just over the crest of the oncoming hill. Another 
hides behind the hill the party has just 
descended, having quietly allowed it to pass. A 
third lurks in "turtled" positions along the trail, 
ready to attack (a turtled position is one in 
which an individual is buried with only a small 
breathing tube to the surface). 

The caravan spots ambush group #1 as it 
appears on the crest of the hill in front of the 
wagons. The ores rain flaming arrows down on 
the caravan, with +1 to attack rolls because of 
higher ground. After a round of arrow fire, 
ambush group #2 appears on the hill behind 
the caravan and charges downhill to attack (+2 
to hit when they reach the caravan at the end 
of the round). Ambush group #3 leaps up from 
turtled positions at the beginning of round 3. 
The archers in group #1 then cease their fire 
and rush in to attack. 

Ambush group #1 consists of the following: 
Ores (4): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Ding by weapon; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All wield 
shortbows and spears. 


Orog (1): Int High; AL LE; AG 4; MV 6; HD 3; 
hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
(broad sword); SA +1 to damage; SD Nil; SZ M; 
ML Elite (14); XP 65. 

Ambush group #2 consists of the following: 
Ores (4): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All wield 
broadswords. 


Orog (1): Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; TID 3 
hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
(broad sword); SA +1 to damage; SD Nil; SZ M; 
ML Elite (14); XP 65. 


Ambush group #3 consists of the following: 
Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; IiD 1; 

6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All wield 
broadswords. 


This is a simple ore border raid; they know 
nothing of the caravan's contents, of Jetero, or 
of the secret Iuzian base within Furyondy. 


Fort Disaster 

The caravan will stop in Fendrelan only 
absolutely necessary; otherwise, it will head 
straight on to Batlet, Read the following boxed 
text to the players as the PCs approach, infor 
mation which they see for themselves, or have 
gained through conversations with Mikinus at 
Fort Belvor or the merchants and teamsters on 
the trail. 


The village of Batlet consists of several 
dozen small hovels scattered about sur 
rounding a dilapidated fort, A small hamlet 
of only 100 people, Batlet contains of mostly 
farmers and fishermen, whose sole source 
of protection is Border Post Three. The 
locals, however, have a different name for it: 
Fort Disaster. 

Unlike Port Belvor-which officials con 
structed to stand against The Horned Soci 
ety capita! of Molag-the border posts were 
only intended to staff a small garrison for 
local defense and provide stopping-off 
points for merchants traveling the Grab- 
ford-Critwall-Willip trail. As such, officials 
didn't give the posts names, and had to hap 
hazardly convert them into military forts 
when the war began. 

Border Post Three is one such fort, and 
leaves a great deal to be desired. It suffered 
heavy damage during the war and has not 
yet been repaired. The post's defenses con 
sist of a 30Miigh tower, which has numer 
ous chips and nicks covering its outside 




















r T ort r Disaster 



wall Still, it shows no signs of obvious pene 
tration points-yet. The fort's battlement 
did not fare nearly as welL About half of it 
now litters the ground around the tower. 
You feel a sense of desperation about your 
mission as you approach the ragged-looking 
fort: If this is the best protection that Fury- 
ondy can provide merchants along this 
trade route, commerce has hit a new low 
indeed. 


Bloody Axe Inn 

One square = 10 yards 


Second Floor 


Allow the players a few moments to react to 
the scene, and perhaps have PCs talk to a few of 
the villagers (who find it relatively funny that 
they he planning on re-establishing a trade 
route here). Then read them the following 
boxed text. 


First Floor 


Three wide, well-worn stairs lead up to a 
large, reinforced door which would bar the 
entrance to the tower, though it now hangs 
open and unguarded. As you enter, you see 
a barren, filthy tower interior that appears 
as If it hasn't been cleaned or straightened 
in months. This is just one symptom of the 
breakdown of morale and discipline among 
the troops defending the border post. 

Next to the tower stands the ruins of a 
fortified stone house, with the second story 
collapsed onto the first. The fort appears 
capable of 65 men or so, but right now there 
couldn't be more than 40 or so manning the 
defenses. Somehow, despite it all, the fort 
has managed to hold off the orcish offenses 
and continue to make its stand. 


tens). The DM should try to avoid running a 
full-scale combat with the full roster of guards 
and attackers; this would be far too cumber 
some for most DMs. Better to pick a few of the 
attacking creatures in relation to the PCs' abil 
ity, and let the guards take care of the rest. Per 
haps the PCs might take on a mix of ores and 
orcish leaders, or perhaps they might all gang 
up on the attacking force's ogre. Perhaps they 
might join in with a contingent of guards in 
fending off some of the bandits. The DM should 
use his best discretion in determining what 
kind of fight the PCs are capable of and the 
players are interested in. 

The attackers strike about an hour after mid 
night, with three groups of 10 humanoids each 
firing flaming arrows at the garrison as they row 
across the Veng. Once reaching the shores, 
they will launch a full-scale attack. Bandit 
forces, meanwhile, wait just outside the tower, 
ready to attack anyone who attempts to flee. 

Humanoids fighting in this battle receive a -4 
bonus to their morale rolls-Iuz has grown 
impatient with the war band's failure to take 
down such a decrepit fort, and has ordered 


Despite the fort's decrepit condition, Malin 
insists on stopping at the border post overnight, 
since the only other alternative would be to 
spend the night on the road. This proves to be 
an unfortunate decision for the party, since 
Iuz's forces decide to mount another offensive 
that very night to break the fortress once and 
for all. 

The DM can simply describe the attack in 
summary to the players, or allow the PCs to 
engage in the fighting if they feel up to it 
(remember, though, they're low-level charac- 


rh H | 

|1 J 

1 1 j \ 


Lj 

-I 


jar 

Tal 

bles 



n n n r 

LdJ 

vj- 

ZL 





































































'Toil c Disaster 


them to return victorious or not return at all, 
TJhe DM should create the atmosphere for 
the players of desperate battle anarchy during 
the attack-this may indeed be Fort Disaster's 
last stand! 


Ores (24): hit Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; 
hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All 
wield shortbows and hand axes. 


Ore Leaders (3): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 
HD 2; hp 11; THACO 19; #AT 1; 
weapon; SA +1 to damage; SD Nil; 
Elite (14); XP 35. All wield broadswords 


Grogs (2): Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; IID 3; 
hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
+ 1 to damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 
65. Both wield broadswords. 


Ogre (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; 
hp 21; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA +2 to 
damage; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Steady (12); XP 175. 


Bandits (20): Int Avg; AL CE; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
1(tm)1; hp 6; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All 
wield short bows and short swords. 


The human bandits have no loyalty to luz, 
and fight on the side of the ores only as a mat 
ter of convenience, to profit from their raids. 
Thus, they get no morale bonus, and are easy 
to break if they find themselves overwhelmed. 

When invasion hits, some of the populace 
panic and run, only to be caught by the bandits 
waiting outside. Most others simply hide in 
their homes, hoping to escape the barrage of 
flaming arrows. Some form a fire brigade to put 
out any fires caused by the raid, A few pick up 
weapons and fight as ragtag defenders when the 
ores breach the compound. 

The entire garrison turns out in five rounds, 
starting with the 10 on watch and then six from 
the tower each round as the combat progresses. 
The humanoids breach the defenses on round 
six, swarming into the courtyard and tower and 
triggering a full-scale fortress defense. 


Garrison Troops (40): Int Avg; AL LG; AC 
MV 12; HD 1; hp 8; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14). 
Those on watch wield short bows and long 
swords. The rest wield only long swords. 


Characters watching the tower during the 
battle spot a mage on the top hurling spells 
down against the invaders. Those passing a 
Wisdom check think it looks like their mer 
chant companion Jasmalus, but between the 
darkness, the distance, and the confusion of 
the battle they have difficulty saying for cer 
tain, They will not find "Jasmalus" until 
the battle, when they discover him hiding in his 
room, allegedly taking shelter from the combat. 
He denies participating in the battle, intent on 
keeping his impersonation intact. 

The DM should allow the guardsmen to even 
tually drive off the invaders, unless the PCs do 
something remarkably stupid that ends up acci 
dentally aiding the ores. In that ease, allow the 
PCs to flee with the caravan as the tower falls, 
punching through a line of attacking bandits in 
their escape. 

After the attack, garrison soldiers pick up the 
pieces from the battle, a racket which contin 
ues well into the morning and prevents the PCs 
from getting any real sleep-a fitting end 
their stay at Fort Disaster. 















^Behold r Bardufi 

The fourth leg of the trip takes eight more 
days, taking the party across the Crystal River 
and into the town of Barduk. The DM can roll 
for random encounters during the trip, but no 
set encounters occur until the party fords the 
Crystal River. 

When the PCs near the river, read the follow 
ing to the players. 


Recent rains have swollen the river, so the 
humanoids are indeed too occupied with the 
task of crossing the water to notice the party- 
for once, the PCs can get the jump on the ores. 
After the free round, the ores rush to attack, 
possibly meeting the party in the middle of the 
water. This should provide some dramatic com 
bat, as the PCs clash with the surprised ores 
under the night sky, the swollen river rushing 
by them. 

If the PCs do not charge to attack, the ores 
take refuge behind their wagons (+6 to AC) and 
pepper the party with flaming arrows. If the 
PCs retreat, the ores do so as well, leaving the 
pair of caravans in a Mexican standoff. The ores 
can wait like this until sunrise, at which point 
they must head back into hiding and try again 
the next night. 

The water is knee-deep and moves swiftly. 
Anyone meleeing in the water does so at a -2 to 
hit (archery is unaffected) and must make a 
Dexterity check when struck, or fall into the 
water. (Consider ores to have Dexterity 11 and 
the orog to have Dexterity 13,) 

Individuals who fall into the water lose all 
Dexterity and shield bonuses to AC, while the 
attackers receive an additional +2 bonus to 
their THAGO. Individuals struck while fallen 


slip further and become caught in the river cur 
rent. This sweeps them downstream (60 feet 
per round), inflicting ld4 points of additional 
damage from swallowed water and jagged rocks. 

A fallen individual may regain his footing at 
any time by making a Dexterity check, though 
this takes the entire round to do so. Individuals 
swept away by the current make the check at 
-2, or continue to hurtle downstream (taking 
ld4 damage per round). 

Individuals on horseback may fight in the 
waters without penalty (the horses are strong 
enough to ford the currents without problem), 
but the ores will quickly recognize their disad 
vantage and attempt to unseat the rider-usu 
ally by killing the horse. Individuals thrown 
from their horses for any reason are automati 
cally swept downstream for ld4 damage (in 
addition to the ld6 for falling off the horse). 

Both horses and footmen move at A rate 
when in the waters. 

Ores (8): lot Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
6; TPIACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; 


Night has already fallen, but Malin insists 
you press on until you reach the next 
town-Barduk is just past the Crystal River, 
and you can already hear the river now. As 
the trail bends around a small hillock to 
turn towards the river ford, you spot the 
Crystal's dark, rushing waters. You also 
spot-ores! A two-wagon train, led by the 
humanoids, fords the river toward you and 
into Furyondy. They seem to be too busy 
crossing the river to see you yet. You have 
surprise! 




18 



































































TiefioLd ^Barduk 



SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (12); XP 15. All wield 
short bows and hand axes. 

Ore Leaders (2): Int Avg; AL LE; AG 4; MV 9; 
HD 2; hp 11; THAGO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
+ 1; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 35. Both 
wield broadswords. 

Orog ( 1 ): Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; HD 3; 
hp 21: THAGO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon +1 
(long sword); SA Nil; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite 
(14); XP 175. 

After the combat, players find the ore wagon 
train (two wagons in all) filled with supplies, 
including foodstuff, orcish weapons and armor, 
and 1,000 gp worth of crudely-forged gold 
ingots. Captured ores offer no explanation of 
why they transported such supplies into Fury- 
ondy; they would rather take a quick death now 
than face what luz would have in store for them 
for betraying his stronghold. 

Still, the existence of the caravan heading 
into Furyondy in the dead of night is enough to 
tip Jetero off; he realizes that the troop move 
ments he has tracked indicate a secret luzian 
base within Furyondy itself. The wagon train, 
filled with supplies, confirms its existence. 
Presently he says nothing, but he resolves to 
warn Jakarta! once the party reaches Barduk. 

An hour later, Border Post Number Four comes 
into view. Read the following to the players. 

The post at Barduk consists of an earthen 
wall surrounding a battered 30'-high tower, 
with little else. A small town which has seen 
better days surrounds the fort, but the village of 
Barduk appears mostly deserted. 


Two riders from the fort meet you on the 
outskirts of town. They escort you through 
the empty town and into the fort. As you 
pass through the town, you notice most of 
the buildings appear damaged, either from 
physical attack or from fire. Most of Bar- 
duk's barns, warehouses, and shops lie 
demolished, while evidence of heavy ore 
raids-arrows, rusted shields, and axes- 
remain strewn about on the ground. 


The Village of Barduk 

Because major events in the adventure occur in 
Barduk, the module describes the town in depth. 

Barduk once prided itself as a prosperous 
town, aided by its location near the fords over 
the Veng and Crystal rivers. As Barduk grew, 
officials established Border Post Number Four. 
The tower had seen incalculable caravans pass, 
prior to the war. 

Barduk sits in a small valley between two 
hills, with the fort atop the hill that overlooks 
the Veng River, This gives the tower a com 
manding view of all of the surrounding terri 
tory. A nearly sheer cliff drops off from the 
fort's outer wall facing the riverbank, giving it a 
strong defensive posture. 


Since the war, however, the town has 
begun to disintegrate. Many of the town's 
men became soldiers and did not survive 
the war, and many families have moved 
away to find work in Willip, Last winter 
brought an epidemic to the town, which 
additionally reduced its population, and 
now the increase in orcish raids threatens 
to shrink it even further. 

But the plague, and the raids, have not 
tapered only the town's population, they 
have virtually decimated its militia. The 
military compliment once stood at 65; now, 
it stands at 12, Were it not for the orcish 
war bands also contracting the plague, the 
fort would have fallen long ago. 

A Shield Lander named Captain Rildillian 
heads the ragtag remnants of the border post, 
all veterans of the recent war. The general 
populace of Furyondy usually resents Shield 
Land refugees, but residents here accept 
them as fighters in the greater cause. Indeed, 
they have to-were it not for the Shield Lan 
ders, Barduk would have no militia at all. 

By coincidence, the entire surviving gar 
rison hails from the same town inside the 
Shield Land, thus earning Border Post Num 
ber Four the nickname "Fort Critwall"- 
even though it lies 100 miles from that 
captured city's border. 



















^Behold 'Barduk 



Fort Grit wall 

As they reach the fort, read the following. 


Morin, 4tli-level fighter: Str 18, Dex 11, Con 
16, Int 12, Wis 8, Gha 8; THACO 15; hp 40; 
Weapon battleaxe +1; AL LG. 

Frakus mans the stables and cares for the 
horses at the fort. 

None at the stables realize Frakus is actually 
a half-ore, and most simply think that he is an 
exceptionally large human teenager whose par 
ents perished during the war. His 14-year-old 
frame stands 6' tall and weighs 220 pounds, 
though he has the mind of a 7-year-old and 
upsets easily when Morin is not around. 

He possesses a natural affinity with animals, 
is a particularly good groom, and locals treat 
him with the proper amount of kindness and 
respect. 

Frakus: Str 17, Dcx 12, Con 14, Int 4, Wis 5, 
Cha 4; THACO 20; Weapon axe; hp 12; AL NG. 

The Bloody Axe Inn 

Read the following boxed text when the play 
ers reach the inn. 


Behind the bar stands a 4 r 6" dwarf named 
Borik. Borik, like Morin, is a holdover from the 
war Bonks one goal in life is to run a great bar. 
A warm and friendly bartender, he is also 
versed in the classics of the Dwarven Kingdoms 
and is not above acting as the bar's own bard. 

He thrills at the chance to sing tales of hero- 


The Smithy and Stables 


When the players enter the smithy or sta 
bles, read the following to them. 


The smithy and stables stand one story 
tall, 30 1 wide and 60' long, of simple wood 
construction. Double-doors mark the main 
entrances to both halves of the structure. 

The smithy portion of the building con 
sists of a hearth, an anvil, and a wide variety 
of tools and tool-making equipment. Goal 
and iron bins sit just inside the doors. 

The stables consists of a small corral 
holding the fifteen horses owned by the mil 
itary. The horses roam their wooden pen 
during the daytime, and at nighttime remain 
in their stable stalls, 

A mountain dwarf named Morin runs the 
smithy, and spends virtually all of his time 


An earthen wall, 20' tall, surrounds the 
fort, apparently of new construction. The 
wall slopes up to a 10-foot-wide top, with 
randomly-placed spikes covering the outer 
side of the wall. A 6'-deep, lQ r -wide trench 
surrounds the wall, completely encircling 
the fort save for the main avenue that leads 
into its entrance. 

You pass through the guarded entrance to 
enter a small, open plaza. In addition to the 
tower, the earthen wall circles a two-story 
inn and a combination smithy and stables. 


During the war, the post served as the 
southern end of the border defenses against 
The Horned Society. Prior to the war, It did 
not share a common border with The 
Horned Society, and so became the place 
where Furyondy sent its least capable 
troops. Thus, it was not well built, nor was it 
maintained well with the little money it did 
get. 


working metal for the garrison of the fort. A 
veteran of the war against luz, he broods a 
bit too much now that he has lost his family. 

He has, however, taken a mentally handi 
capped teenager named Frakus under his 
protection, so now Morin feels a compelling 
reason to stay in Barduk rather than to 
return to his underground homeland. 


The Bloody Axe Tnn dominates the inte 
rior of the fort. At one time, it laid claim as 
the largest inn on the Grabford-Critwall- 
Willip trail. The front of the building has 
two large pane-glass windows, still intact, 
with a well-used swinging wooden door 
between them. 






























%efiold f Barduk 


well as a gaping 3-foot-wide hole about 15 feet 
up the wall. 

The door opens up into a chamber 30'x3Q'. A 
large hearth dominates the far wall. An open 
staircase to the right of the room ascends to the 
upper floors. The rest of the wall is used for 
racks to hold garrison weapons, hi the center of 
the room is a table, 10 1 in diameter, surrounded 
by 10 wooden chairs. 

The second story contains another 30'x30' 
room. This is the garrison's quarters. This is 
filled with beds, but otherwise is identical to 
the floor below. A handed wooden chest sits 
under each bed, and extra blankets cover a 3'- 
wide hole in the tower wall, keeping out the 
chill air. 

The third story holds another 30'x30' room, 
and serves as the storage room for the fort. It 
contains food, wine, weapons, and armor for 
the fort's garrison. The provisions are the most 
that could be gathered before the winter. 

The top story holds the battlements of the 
tower. Looking out from here, the PCs can both 
of the fords under the fort's protection. It also 
has a commanding view of the Shield Land ter 
ritory on the far side of the Veng River. Fires, 
inside the Shield Lands, can be seen in the dis 
tance, even during the day. 

The captain of the garrison is a Shield Lander 
named RiIdi Ilian. Rildillian is a young soldier but 
a veteran of hard fighting. lie wants nothing 
more than to see his homeland free from the evil 
of Iuz, Rildillian, 4th-level fighter: Str 16, Dex 
12, Con 14, hit 12, Wis 4, Cha 12; TLIACO 15; hp 
37; Weapon two-handed sword; AL NG. 

The Secret Mission 

As soon as the party reaches the Bloody Axe 
Inn, Jetero tells the PCs he needs to talk to 
them right away. He becomes uncharacteristi 
cally aggressive, and insists that the PCs check 
in quickly and head to his room right away. If 
they appear reluctant, he notes that the cara 
van appears to be in danger, and that he wishes 
to meet with them to make new plans. 

He leaves Malin and Emerald to set up for 
business the next morning. Then he heads 
upstairs with the party. Read the following to 
the players. 


ism and love, and, for a dwarf, has a fairly 
melodic voice, 

Rorik is a master brewer as well, as he makes 
much of the beer and ale he serves in the bar. 
He has set aside a portion of the storeroom as a 
small brewery. 

Borik, 3rd4evel fighter: Str 16, Dex 11, Con 
17, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 15; THACO 17; hp 25; 
Weapon broadsword; AL CG. 


A small office sits behind the counter at the 
entrance of the inn. The office has a desk (usu 
ally stacked high with parchments) and a large 
strongbox with the inn's gold (about 1,000 gp) 
beneath the desk. 

The kitchen is well-kept and exceptionally 
well-run by the cook, Squarin. The house spe 
cialty is an exquisite lamb stew, but it is also 
known for its pheasant when in season. A door 
on the far side of the room leads to the store 
room, and a door on the rear wall leads outside. 
The only other door leads to Morin's sleeping 
room. 

Squarin is a human female with a command 
ing presence in the kitchen. She demands 
respect from the serving girls in the inn, and 
gets it. 

Squarin stands 5'4" and weighs 220 pounds. 
She has short, dark brown hair and dark brown 
eyes. She takes great pride in her food and in 
its service. 

The storeroom is divided into two sections, 
the brewery and the storage area. The brewery 
always has several large casks of beer and ale 
aging. The storage area consists of supplies 
needed to run the inn. 

Upstairs is a long hallway with numerous 
doors leading into the rooms of the inn. The 
first room on tire right leads to the female staffs 
quarters. The first door on the left leads to the 
male staffs quarters. At the far end of the hall is 
the room of Celini, a half-elf who plays a large 
role in the later part of the adventure. The 
room to the right of the staircase is used as 
more storage space. 


Tlie Tower 


The tower stands 30 feet, tail and is made of 
stone. The walls show signs of serious attack, 
with large bits of bricks and mortar missing, as 


21 

























Hedold ^Bardufi 







Jasmalus seems to study each of you 
intently as you enter the small room. Clos 
ing the door behind him, he begins to speak. 

"1 know how odd this must seem. 1 real-ize 
Ido not present my friendliest face to the 
world, but my privacy has its reasons. Never 
theless, the death of my brother, and other 
events on this trip, force me to reveal myself. 

"I told you my brother's name was Jetero, 
That was a lie. My brother's name was Jas 
malus, and he was the merchant who trav 
eled these routes. MY name is Jetero, and 1 
am a special agent for Count Artur Jakartai. 
The count sent me with this caravan, posing 
as my brother, to secretly scout the border 
and track Iuris troop movements." 

He takes out the small book you have 
seen him writing in during the course of the 
journey. 

"My information of these troop move 
ments is contained in here. It points to one 
invariable conclusion: that Iuz has manned 
a secret humanoid base within Furyondy 
itself. Moving troops and supplies in during 
the dead of night, he has used these not.-so- 
random border raids to cover his true 
intent. The caravan we stumbled across a 
few hours earlier could mean nothing else. 

"A secret Iuzian base hidden within our 
borders could spell doom for Furyondy. I 
must warn Jakartai immediately and have 
him pass word along to Beivor. To do this, I 
must deliver this book. 

"1 have a problem, however. Someone 
has betrayed my position, someone within 
the Furyondian command. The ores 
attacked my brother's caravan because they 
believed him to be me. Only a few knew of 
my impersonation-it can only mean we 
have a traitor in our midst. 

"But it also means that I cannot deliver 
this book myself. With the fate of Furyondy 
at stake, I cannot endanger this information. 

"I have contacted one of Jakartai's scouts 
in the area, a trustworthy agent named 
Jeremiah. You can find him at a safehouse 
in the woods nearby. I will give you direc 
tions there. He . . . well, you will know him 
when you see him." 


Jetero will answer any questions about the 
rendezvous, but he emphasizes that the PCs 
must be the ones to deliver the book-as mere 
caravan guards, they are inconspicuous and 
will attract little attention leaving the fort. 

He refuses to give PCs a description of Jere 
miah; the possibility still exists that they might 
be captured, and he cannot risk compromising 
the identity of such a valuable agent. 

The party is to meet the contact on the 
banks of the Crystal River. Jetero describes a 
pair of flat rocks which lean against each other, 
forming an inverted "V" shape at the river's 
edge. The contact, he says, will meet them 
there. 

After the PCs depart, read the following to 
them. 


You travel for nearly an hour upon small 
pathways through the brush near the river's 
edge; though a roadway follows the river 
southward, you know that many riverside 
landmarks could not be spotted from the 
road. Even without a clear path to travel on, 
however, you travel steadily, if not rapidly, 
to the meeting place. 

Then, after nearly an hour of travel, you 
spot two rocks forming an inverted "V" just 
as Jetero had described. Then, as you scan 
the brush for a pathway to the landmark on 
the river's edge, you hear a rustling sound in 
the brush to your left. 


The noise comes from a small, freckle-faced 
girl named Sarah Jean. Only six years old, 
Sarah Jean has wandered away from her nearby 
home to quickly become lost in the woods. She 
obviously fears the strange PCs, but fears wan 
dering alone in the woods even more. 

Though the PCs do not realize it yet, Sarah 
Jean is one of several Shield Land orphans 
watched over by Jeremiah and his druid com 
panion, Alexia. The children all lost their fami 
lies in the war. Now the ranger and the druid 
shelter them in a woodland cabin, away from 
the violence that plagues the nearby border 
towns. 

Sarah Jean managed to wander off while 
both adults discussed matters privately (actu 
ally, the meeting with the PCs). Sarah Jean, of 


22 























course, knows nothing of the meeting, and sim 
ply wants the PCs to help her find "Mr. Iggy" 
and "The Leaf Lady," 

Presuming the PGs are not hostile towards 
hep she begins to talk with them, though, obvi 
ously, her knowledge is limited to that of a six- 
year-old. She cringes if the PGs carry any 
exposed weapons around her; the horrors of 
war have clearly marked this child, and the PGs 
would do well to keep their weapons put away. 
They might try to take her mind off her situa 
tion by discussing things that she's interested 
in-flowers and butterflies being particularly 
appropriate-or simply try to help her find her 
way back home. 

Allow the players to roleplay with Sarah Jean 
for a few minutes, and then read the following 
boxed text to them. Read it to them immedi 
ately if the PGs take any hostile action towards 
her. 


Give the players a moment to react, and then 
have the lizardman growl in a low hiss, "Unhand 
the girl, banditssss-sssshe issss under my pro- 
tecssssion!" 

Jeremiah will fire the arrow at anyone who 
takes offensive action. If this occurs, however, 
have Sarah Jean prevent full-blown combat by 
shouting, "Mr, Iggy T " and running up to hug his 
leg. 

Jeremiah will drop his bow and lift her up, 
confident the PGs will not strike him while he 
is holding the child. He then replies, playfully, 
"I told you to stop calling me that, you little 
wanderling-my name is Jeremiah. TJ 

This should allow the PCs and the ranger to 


r Behold r Bardufi 


dissolve any initial hostilities. Once they make 
proper introductions, Jeremiah accepts Jetero's 
book from them and then invites them back to 
his cabin. If they accompany him, read the fol 
lowing boxed text. 


As Jeremiah reads the notebook, Alexia 
introduces herself and offer the PG J s food and 
drink. She answers any questions about Jere 
miah, herself, or the children, and offers to heal 
any PGs who are wounded. 

During this time, the children also begin to 
approach the PGs. The DM should try giving 
each child a slightly different personality, using 
the descriptions below as a guide. 


The Cabin's Inhabitants 


Jeremiah, 5th-level ranger (lizard man): Str 
17, Dex 12, Gon 13, Int 16, Wis 12, Cha 9; AC 
5; MV 6, 12 in water; HD 5; hp 31; #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon; THACO 15; Weapons sword, dagger; 
ALNG. 


Taking Sarah Jean's hand in his own, 
Jeremiah leads you down an almost invisi 
ble trail on the opposite side of the nearby 
road. You soon come upon a log cabin, vir 
tually unnoticeable behind a thorny wall of 
brush. A narrow strip of land separates the 
cabin from its camouflage. 

Once inside, you see a small fire light the 
cabin's interior from the hearth on the wall 
opposite the door. Near the fireplace, a 
woman in a light green gown smiles at Jere 
miah, and then nods toward you. 

Sarah Jean rushes off towards the woman, 
but soon you see several other children 
quickly pop their heads out of hiding. They 
eye you cautiously for a moment, then head 
over to the young girl to excitedly pepper 
her with questions about you and her 
adventure in the woods. 

Jeremiah smiles at the children and then 
motions you toward a few benches. "Ple- 
asssse, take a ssssseat," he says. "I may 
need to asssk you sssome quessstionsss 
about thisssss. 77 Pie taps a finger on the 
notebook, and then sits down to quickly 
begin reading it. 


Suddenly, a shadowed humanoid figure 
crashes through the bushes, seemingly out 
of nowhere. Its jagged teeth flash in the 
moonlight as it sweeps away the brush with 
a powerful swing of its thick, scaly tail. Mus 
cles ripple beneath its reptilian skin, and a 
loud hiss coats its forked tongue with glis 
tening spit. Before you even realize it, the 
creature has a bowstring pulled taut, a 
gleaming arrowhead aimed at you at point 
blank range. You have only a few seconds to 
move, but the creature clearly has you dead 
to rights. 


23 



















c .Befiold 'Banin k 


decided to follow the path of warriors. They 
idolize Jeremiah, and stare in awe at the PCs 1 
gleaming weapons. The pair will gladly demon 
strate their fighting prowess with a pair of 
"dueling sticks" (dead tree branches) they 
practices with. 

Luke: This 8-year-old almost always has a 
thoughtful look on his face. More than any of 
the others, he seems to understand exactly 
what the horrors the war have wrought. Though 
terminally quiet, he's often found lurking near 
other people's conversations, like a shadow-a 
habit that's earned him the nickname among 
the other children, "Luke the Spook." 

Gregory, Game, and Heather: These three tod 
dlers keep a fair distance between themselves 
and the PCs, though proper urging may draw 
them out. 

Roleplay the children for as long as the play 
ers seem interested, and then have Jeremiah 
finish reading the book. Read the following 
boxed text to the players. 


If the players do not seem speculative, Jere 
miah asks them to recount the events of the 
mission for him. If players do not mention the 
sergeant in their summary, the DM should have 
Jeremiah ask them about the person who 
briefed them on the mission, mixed in with 
other unrelated questions. This should get 
them thinking about Krayquer. 

When the discussion does turn to Krayquer, 
Jeremiah mentions that the sergeant occasion 
ally runs missions to him, and thus he is famil 
iar with the area. This might tip players off to 
the fact that Krayquer should have known the 
correct information that he improperly pre 
sented to them during the briefing. 


Jeremiah, an unnaturally intelligent lizard- 
man, has aligned himself with the side of good* 
He works for Count Jakarta! as a scout and spe 
cial agent, using his ability to travel underwater 
to infiltrate enemy defenses* 

Jeremiah never quite fit in with liis fellow 
lizardmen. He tended to care more deeply for 
the land and creatures around him than for his 
brethren and their aggressive activities. As the 
Greyhawk Wars began, Jeremiah's tribe 
expelled him-it would rather he died trying to 
fend for himself than protect him when he 
would not fully contribute to the tribe. During 
the war, he learned to survive in the woods, and 
spent many months secretly helping Furyondv 
in its fight against the luzian forces. 

Jeremiah's actions earned him many friends 
by war's end. When one of them, the druid 
Alexia, asked him to assist her in raising and 
protecting young refugees from the Shield 
Lands, he knew he had found a new home. 

His actions in the war, and afterwards also, 
brought Jeremiah to the attention of Jetero* In 
the wake of the war, Jetero convinced Jeremiah 
to aid him in keeping a close watch on the 
forces of Iuz* He acts as border guard along this 
section of the river, and using Alexia's pet 
hawk, he informs Captain Rildillian at Fort 
Grit wall of any orcish movements he may dis 
cover* 


Alexia, 3rd-level human druid: Str 12, Dex 12, 
Con 11 , Tnt 12, Wis 14, Cha 16; hp 13; AC 8 
(currently 10); Weapon staff; AL N* 


Alexia, a strong-willed human druid, has a 
deep platonic affection for Jeremiah. Though 
she detests war, she gives him moral support in 
his decision to work against the forces of Iuz. 
Individuals, she knows, must each choose their 
own way. 


The Children 


Sarah Jean: This freckle-faced 6-year-old loves 
all things beautiful, and her reaction to the PCs 
here will depend on their treatment of her dur 
ing the previous encounter* 


John and Mathew: These identical twins are 
only 11 years old, hut both have already 


"Unfortunately," Jeremiah says, closing 
the book, "I believe Jetero'sss conclusionsss 
are correct. I cannot think of any other 
reassson for orcsess to take sssuppliesss 
into Furyondv, other than to sssstock a 
fortresssss within. 

"And indeed, there ssseemsss to be a trai 
tor in our ranksssss. Have you any idea who 
it isssss?" 


I 
















c .Behold 'Barduk 




These realizations should work to remind 
players that Krayquer urged the PCs to kill 
any llzardman on sight-an order he would 
have never normally given knowing that 
Jetero's caravan would be passing near Jere 
miah's cabin. 

Tills should be enough to allow the players to 
determine the identity of the traitor. In the 
event that they don't, have young Luke pipe in 
with the following information at an appropri 
ate moment. 


Surprisingly, little Luke suddenly speaks 
up, his quiet voice interrupting the loud dis 
cussion, 

"Mr Iggy 7 are you talking about the scar 
faced man who meets with the pig men? I 
saw him give them a book just like that/' he 
says, pointing to Jetero's notebook. 

"I know the pig-men is bad," he adds, 
looking down at his shoes, "but I didn't 
want to say nuthin 'cause I thought you 
might get mad at my leaves dropping," 


Luke, of course, means "eavesdropping," for 
which Alexia often scolds him (though really he 
just wants to be part of the conversation). 

When questioned, Luke explains what he 
saw: The last time the scar-faced man (Kray 
quer) came to meet Jeremiah, Luke followed 
him out of the house because he wanted to ask 
questions about what it was like to live in a for 
tress, Before Luke could catch up with him, 
however, the boy saw Krayquer meet with three 
ores and a "dark, pointy-eared boy" (a drew), 
to give them the book. 

This took place about two weeks after the 
PCs left GreatwalL Though he didn't know it, 
Luke bore witness to Krayquer delivering infor 
mation about Jetero to the ores, and hiring a 
dark elf to assassinate the secret agent when 
the caravan reached Barduk, 

If the players don't need any help in deduc 
ing the traitor, let Luke chime in anyway to 
confirm their suspicions. 

Then have Jeremiah become apprehensive 
and gather his things hurriedly. He urges the 
PCs to do the same-he must get the book to 
Jakarta!, and they must return to Barduk to 
warn Jetero of Krayquer 


Cragson Mines Office 

One square = 10 feet 
First Floor 


Second Floor Attic 


i j Trash Piles 


Alexia will cast a brief spell over the 
waterproof it, and then the group returns to 
riverbank. 

At the river's edge, Jeremiah tucks the book 
into a beltpouch, and then bids the 
farewell. He swims into the current, disappear 
ing beneath the murky waters. 

Using the rivers to hide his movements, 
will take the Crystal up until it meets the Veng, 
and then take the Yeng until he reaches Great- 
wall. 


i j Trash Piles 





















































Giant centipedes infest the remnants of the 
bunks, and attack if disturbed or if the PCs 
linger too long on the first floor. 

Giant Centipedes (18): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; 
MV 15; HD 1/4; hp 1; TIIACG 20; #AT 1; Dmg 
Nil; SA Poison; SD Nil; SZ T; ML Unsteady (7); 
XP 35. 


The second story resembles the first except 
that someone has piled the trash from the 
bunks into the far corner of the room. Giant 
rats have made their home in these former 
bunks, and they attack PCs who become too 
inquisitive. Otherwise, they simply stay con 
tent to just hide in the junk. 

Giant Rats (8): Int Animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 1/2; hp 3; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg; 1-3; SA 
disease; SD Nil; SZ Tiny; ML Unsteady (6); XP 
15. 


3. Office 

The only other multi-floor building in the 
camp is the former work camp office, where the 
mine's owner once lived. It stands three stories 
tall, with some signs of recent repair. Single 
doors lead into the building from the front and 
the back. 

The front door leads into the main office of 
the mine, now barren except for several large 
tables. The rear door leads into a private 
kitchen, once used to fix meals for the owner of 
the mine and his private guests. Some rotted 
meat and blackened, rock-hard bread sit on a 
large, heavy, food- preparation table (to have 
been eaten by the three men in the processing 
building). Another door leads from the kitchen 
to the office, and an open staircase rises up 
along the office's east wall. 

Upstairs, a hallway leads to four rooms-a 
library, a sitting room, a dining room and a pri 
vate bedroom. The library contains empty 
bookshelves, with a secret door in the corner, 
opening up into a staircase that leads to the 
attic. 

Giant rats have infested the private dining 
room, eating food left by the three men from 
building #1. If the PCs enter, they attack. 

Giant Rats (4): Int Animal; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 1/2; hp 3; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; SA 
disease; SD Nil; SZ Tiny; ML Unsteady (6); XP 
15. 


r rhe Grayson Mines 


Humans founded the Cragson coal mines more 
than 100 years ago. For more than 70 years it 
served as the top producer of coal in Furyondy, 
Then disasters struck: cave-ins, dry veins, 
and rumors of hauntings after several acciden 
tal deaths. Eventually, most of the workers left 
out of superstition, and the mines became too 
unprofitable to maintain. 

The mines sit 10 miles southwest of Barduk 
in an area of large hills. As the PCs approach, 
they can spot the mine entrance at the base of 
the hill and the mining camp's buildings scat 
tered about the top. The entrance to the mine 
appears sealed by a cave-in about 100 yards 
into the shaft. Another entrance exists in one of 
the buildings in the camp. Characters may 
climb the hill from any direction. 


1. Main Processing Building 

The Main Processing Building stands three 
tall. It has a pair of two-story-high dou 
ble-doors at each end, though the doors hinges 
have rusted and the wood has begun to rot. The 
rest of the building appears in a similar state of 
disrepair. 

Inside, the players find a single large, open 
room, three stories high. The room contains a 
rock crushing machine, along with several ore 
wagons. A large pile of raw ore still sits by the 
machine, awaiting processing. 

If the PCs investigate the raw ore, they 
uncover the rotted bodies of three humans. 
These men secretly worked the mine before the 
ores came, bringing out small amounts of gold 
ore. The three quarreled, began fighting, and 
accidentally hit the lever that released the coal 
ore from above. The coal buried them, killing 
all three instantly. Players can still find one of 
the bodies clutching a small leather purse, con 
taining 250 gp worth of unworked gold ore. 


2. Barracks 

The barracks, one of the largest buildings in 
the camp, stands two stories tall. Double-doors 
to the south open up into the main chamber, as 
does a side door to the east. 

Inside, the PCs see a large open bay filling the 
entire first floor. The room once house more 
than 100 bunks, the remnants of which still lie 
scattered about the bay. An open staircase rises 




i 




















The sitting room still contains several broken 
and rotting chairs in the room. The bedroom, 
once affluent, has fallen into similar disrepair. A 
large pile of trash covers the corner of the floor, 
while several sleeping rolls lie spread out in 
another corner The PCs can also find some gen 
eral adventuring supplies among the bedrolls. 

The attic lies virtually empty, save for two 
trash piles and 12 giant bats which enter and 
exit through a broken section of the peaked roof. 
Characters spot the bats immediately upon 
entering the attic, but the animals do not attack 
unless disturbed or the party makes a particu 
larly loud noise. The trashpile furthest from the 
staircase contains a secret cache. The mine's for 
mer owner plastered it into the ceiling of his 
attic for safekeeping, hut its weight eventually 
caused a patch of roof to collapse and the cache 
fell to the floor, covered in rubble, (This is the 
hole through which the bats travel.) 

The cache, in a small iron box, contains 750 
gp worth of various uncut gems (turned up in 
the mining), a wrought platinum ring with 150 
gp, and a ring of protection +1. 

Giant Bats (12): hit Animal; AL N; AC 8; MV 3 
FI 18; HD 1/2; hp 2; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-2; 
SA Nil; SD Confusion; SZ M; ML Unsteady (5); 
XP 35. 


4, The Smelter 

This stands as one of the larger single-story 
buildings in the camp, and seems of more recent 
construction than the surrounding buildings. 
The entrance-wide enough to handle sizable 
wagons- opens into a large single room with a 
small smelting furnace in the center. Tools for 
melting down ore into ingots sit neatly stacked 
in one corner. Three empty triple-ingot molds lie 
on the ground next to the furnace. 


5. Mess Hall 

This long, single-story building has three single 
doors on the front and one leading out the back. 
The front doors lead into the mess hall, where 
four ores currently eat among the broken tables. 
Ores (4): Tut Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
7; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15. All wield 
short swords. 

The rear door leads into the main kitchen, 
with an open doorway connecting the two 


c Jfie Cracjson Mines 


rooms. Individuals entering through the kitchen 
can hear the ores eating in the main room, and 
perhaps gain the advantage of surprise. 


6. The Master Miner s House 

This simple, single story building represents 
the only stone building in the complex. Charac 
ters may enter through a metal-banded wood 
door, the building's only entryway. 

The building once housed the master miner's 
living quarters. Ores recognized it as a dwarfs 
home, and ransacked the house in a particularly 
disgusting fashion. That, however, has allowed 
an ogre to feel right at home amid the offal and 
disarray, and now he sleeps in the bedroom. 
When PCs enter the main room, the ogre 
emerges to see who has broken into "his" house. 
Ogre (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; 
hp 20; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg: 1-10; SA +2 
weapon damage; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Steady (12); 
XP 175. 


The ogre attacks unarmed, but has a 
handed sword in the bedroom. 


7, The Livery 

This building shows signs of recent, minor 
maintenance. An oversized set of double doors 
leads in from the front. 

Inside, the PCs find an anvil and a 
set of blacksmith tools. Crudely-forged orcish 
metalwork, such as spikes and wagon wheels, 
lean against the wall near the anvil. 


8, The Stables 

This poorly-constructed building has large 
double-doorways at both ends, though only one 
set of doors still stands (the other set has come 
unhinged and lies under a thin carpet of dirt on 
the ground). The walls have numerous boards 
missing, and slats of sunlight stream into the 
musty stalls. 

The ores have stabled six draft horses 
along with three orcish wagons. 


9. Storehouse 

The storehouse, a single-story structure, has 
two sets of double doors in front. Inside, the 
PCs find a large open room with several 
and many crates. The kegs contain orcish 
(relatively rancid), and the crates hold several 























l Tfie Cragson Mines 

thousand arrows, all bearing the distinctive 
fie tellings of the Shield Land. 


10. Ore Storehouse 

The ore storehouse is a large, flat-topped 
building used to contain the ore while awaited 
processing. Except for some coal dust, it is now 
empty. 

11. General Store 

The general store consists of a building with 
three single doors that each lead into a separate 
room. At one time, the store supplied miners 
with their living needs. It now stands filled with 
rubbish. 

Anyone opening the center door triggers a 
crossbow trap set by the ores. It strikes with a 
THACG of IS and inflicts ld6 damage. 

12. Tavern 

The tavern, a small, well-built building, has sin 
gle doors in the front and back. Six ores currently 
have a drunken card game within; the PCs auto 
matically gain initiative the first round and gain a 
+2 on initiative the second round. The alcohol 
has also tampered with their THACO scores, but 
has improved their bravery (morale score). 

Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
7; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (15); XP 15. All wield 
short swords. 

These ores are the drivers of the wagons from 
building #8, so they have only limited knowledge 
of the underground operations. The ores drink 
out of a keg of the rancid ale, and have 154 silver 
pieces in various piles on the table. 

13. Church 

This building served as the church for the 
miners. A large padlock and chain currently bars 
the double-doors to the finely-built structure. 

Players might suspect the chain is to keep peo 
ple out, but in actuality it is meant to keep some 
thing in-the skeletons that have risen in the 
aftermath of the ores' desecration of the temple. 

Should the PCs pick the lock and open the 
door, or smash a window to gain entry, they 
find themselves struck by a foul stench-one so 
fierce it makes them retch unless they make a 
Saving Throw vs. Poison at -4. Those failing the 


save spend one round retching and suffer a -2 
penalty to THACO for IdlO rounds. Characters 
must cover their mouths and noses to enter. 

Once inside, skeletons rise up from the rub 
ble the next round and attack. Note that PCs 
must keep their faces covered during the com 
bat, or suffer the effects of the stench. 

Skeletons (8): Int Non; AL N; AG 7; MV 12; HD 
1; hp 6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
Nil; SD spell immunities, half damage from 
edged or piercing weapons; SZ M; ML Special; 
XP 65. All wield long swords. 

14. Chimney 

This is the smallest building in the complex. 
It could easily be mistaken for an outhouse. It 
has one single door, which opens into a chim 
ney extending into the mines below. (DMs 
should be especially mindful of characters 
bashing the door in; it could turn into a fatal fall 
into the mineshaft.) The shaft is 7 feet wide and 
extends downward, out of sight. A 200-foot-long 
coil of rope sits lashed to a deeply-driven stake 
just inside the doorway. 

The luzian Plan 

luz himself developed this plan to strike at 
the heart of Furyondy and rekindle the war as 
the humans attempt to rebuild. The plan is 
deadly in its simplicity: First, he has ordered a 
series of border strikes to draw attention and to 
deplete the reserves of the border posts. In the 
meantime, he has secretly established a human 
oid base within Furyondy, using the raids as 
diversions for secret shipments of cargo and for 
the quiet movement of troops. 

When the base stands ready, luz will step up 
his border attacks and force Furyondy to move 
most of its troops up to the front. Then, with the 
inner regions of Furyondy vulnerable, luz's secret 
base will strike, capturing undefended territory 
and cutting off supply lines to the border troops. 

The hordes of The Horned Society will then 
swarm across the Veng, pinning down the bor 
der troops. They eventually will join up with 
the inner front, serving as reinforcements. 
Then the united humanoid forces will sweep 
overland, crushing Furyondy once and for all. 

The PCs now enter luz's secret base itself, 
perhaps the only hope that stands between 
luz's plan and the final defeat of Furyondy. 


28 















The chimney, an air duct for the former mine 
below, widens and narrows during the 200-foot 
descent but always remains passable enough for 
large humans to fit through (ogres have a tight 
squeeze). The chimney ends in a dead drop to 
chamber #1. 

Dwarven miners carved the rooms and passage 
ways out of hard, solid rock. Ceilings run 10 feet 
high unless specified otherwise, and PCs must 
provide their own sources of light. 

The ores in the complex represent Iuz J s better 
troops, so have higher-than-usual morale scores. 

The DM might wish to check for wandering 
encounters in the mine if the party dawdles * 
makes too much noise, or the players want a bit 
more excitement. Check once per turn on ldlO; 
encounters occur on a roll of 1. Use the following 
chart to determine encounters: 


ld8 Roll 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 


Creature 
Ore Party 
Orog party 
Ogre 

Carrion Crawler 
Giant Rats 
Giant Centipedes 
Camprats 
Ore Leaders 


Ores (4): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 6; 
THAC0 19: #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15. All wield 
broadswords. 

Grogs (2): Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; HD 3; hp 
IS; Til AGO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA +1 to 
damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65. Both 
wield long swords. 

Ogre (1): hit Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; 
hp 22; THACO 17; #AT 1 Dmg 1-10; SA +2 to 
weapon damage; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Steady (12); XP 
175. It fights unarmed. 

Carrion Crawler (1): Int Non; AL X; AC 3/7; MV 
12; HD 3+1; hp 19; THACO 17; #AT 4; Dmg 1-2; 
SA paralysis; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Special; XP 270. 
Four tentacles have been severed in skirmishes 
with the ores, and the creature may only concen 
trate its attacks on one target at a time. If encoun 
tered, remove the creature from Chamber #8. If 
slain in Chamber #8, remove it from the wander 
ing encounters list and substitute a patrol of ores 
(listed above). 


'T fie Secret r Base 


Giant Rats (18): Int Semi; AL NE; AC 7; MV 12; 
HD 1/2; hp 3; TIiACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; SA dis 
ease; SD Nil; SZ T; ML Unsteady (5); XP 15. 
Camprats (20): Int Animal; AL N; AC 6; MV 15; 
HD 1/4; hp 1; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ T; ML Unsteady (5); XP 7. 

Giant Centipedes (22): Int Non: AL N; AC 9; MV 
15; HD 1/4; hp 1; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg Nil; SA 
poison; SD nil; SZ T; ML Unsteady (5); XP 35. 

Ore Leaders (2): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 4; MV 9; HD 
2; hp 12; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
+1 to Damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65. 
Both wield long swords. 


Chamber #2 

The ores use tills 20-high chamber as their bar 
racks. A single torch lights the room, sconced in 


Chamber #1 

This chamber, beneath the chimney, has a 15- 
foot ceiling. Two ores stand guards here, using their 
infravision in the pitch darkness. The ores attack 
immediately once the first PC climbs down into the 
chamber. This gives the ores automatic initiative 
and allows them to attack without regard for the 
PC s shield or Dexterity armor class bonuses. The 
PC can avoid these penalties by simple dropping 
down the last 15 feet, but this causes ld4 damage 
(falling onto hard stone). 

Other PCs can descend the last 15 feet safely 
while the ores are engaged in combat. PCs will have 
a difficult time attempting to aid in the combat 
while hanging from the rope; somatic spellcasting 
and archery are impossible, and this position makes 
most other weapon attacks too unwieldy. Impress 
upon players the exact precariousness of their char 
acters situation - dangling from a thin rope in 
pitch darkness, suspended 15 feet above a whirling 
combat of clashing steel. 

Ores (2): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 7; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 15. They wield long 
swords and spears. 

If the PCs engage the Chamber #1 ores in com 
bat for more than two rounds, the ores in Cham 
ber #2 send one of their number to investigate. 
This ore arrives on round 5, and joins in the bat 
tle. Should the ore not return to his comrades, the 
remaining ores head to Chamber #1 and arrive in 
round 10. (See Chamber #2 for details on these 
ores.) 


29 





















c The Secret r Base 


Chamber #6 

This chamber houses the main barracks for the 
ores, who currently sleep in their beds. Anyone 
besides a thief who enters this room inadvertently 
wakes one of the ores. The ore shouts a warning 
to his comrades, who leap up naked from their 
beds and grab weapons nearby, attacking at the 
end of the round. Thieves who make successful 
Move Silently rolls each round may slay the ores 
as they sleep (one ore per round), but any failure 
wakes one of the ores and triggers the combat. 
Ores (12): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 10; MV 9; HD 1; hp 
6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Drng by weapon; SA Nil; SD 
Nil; SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15. All wield broad 
swords. 

The PCs find 220 gold pieces among the ores' 
possessions. 


Chamber #7 

The ores have tethered their wolves here, and 
put a slatted wooden gate across the entrance, fas 
tened by a small padlock. The wolves start to bark 
and howl if they catch scent of the PCs, a 50% 
chance each round the PCs stay within 30 feet of 
the chamber opening. The noise does not attract 
any ores-none are nearby-but it should panic 
the players enough to give them a bit of a scare. 

If released, the wolves will attack the PCs, but 
otherwise are helpless in their pen, (Characters get 
no experience points for slaying helpless crea 
tures.) Wolves (4): Int Semi; AL N; AC 7; MV 18; 
HD 2+2; hp 18; THACO 19; #AT 1; Drng 2-5; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; SZ S; ML Avg (11); XP 65. 


Chamber #8 

This 30-foot-high chamber contains the main 
orcish food supply. A carrion crawler lurks amid 
the boxes, tamed by the ores after several skir 
mishes. PCs entering the chamber see a fresh slap 
of meat near the entrance. The carrion crawler 
attacks from behind one of the crates shortly after 
the PCs enter. Roll normally for the monster's 
chances to surprise the characters. 

The carrion crawler has only four attacks, hav 
ing lost half its tentacles in its fights with the ores. 
It must concentrate all of its attacks on one oppo 
nent. 

Carrion Crawler (X): Int Non; AL N; AC 3/7; MV 
12; HD 3+1; hp 19; THACO 17; #AT 4; Drng 1-2; 
SA paralysis; SD Nil; SZ L; ML special; XP 270, 

The crates contain various orcish delicacies 


the south wall. The room contains six rough wood 
bunks, a table, and four chairs. 

The ores in this room may have gone to Cham 
ber #1 during the combat there. If not, the PCs 
catch these ores off guard and receive a free 
round of attack. 

Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 7; MV 9; HD 1; hp 6; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15, All wield broadswords. 

The ores have 40 gold coins of Shield Land 
mintage and 240 gp worth of looted jewelry, scat 
tered among the various hunks. 


Chamber #5 

This chamber stands 20 feet high and is lit by 
two torches, one on the east wall and one on the 
west. As the PCs round the second turn in the 
approach tunnel, they hear an argument erupt 
filled with loud, barking shouts. Those that speak 
orcish recognize it as a fight over a card game. 
Pour ores stand over a small table, yelling at and 
pushing each other, while two more ores lie on 
beds nearby. The argument has momentarily dis 
tracted the ores, and attacking PCs can automati 
cally gain initiative for the first round. 

Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 7; MV 9; HD 1; hp 5; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15. They wield 
broadswords. 

The PCs find 180 sp in the room, mostly on the 


Chamber #3 

The ores use this dark chamber for storage. 
Crates and boxes fill the area, holding Shield Land 
weapons and armor. Giant centipedes have 
infested the crates; when PCs open one of the 
boxes, Id 10 of the creatures attack. 

Giant Centipedes (ldlO): Int Non; AL N; AC 9; MV 
15; HD 1/4; hp 1; THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg nil; SA 
Poison; SD Nil; SZ T; ML Unsteady (5); XP 35. 


Chamber #4 

This 25-foot-high chamber houses the barracks 
for the orogs. A single torch lights the chamber 
from an alcove to the north. As soon as the PCs 
enter, the orogs attack. 

Orog (4): Int High; AL LE; AC 5; MV 6; HD 3; hp 
18; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA +1 to 
damage; SD nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65. They 
wield long swords and carry 50 gp each. 


i 


30 























'7 fie Secret c Base 


nation reveals this as the chamber from which the 
three humans found the gold ore, though the vein 
is mostly spent now-an individual with the Min 
ing proficiency can, if given time, extract about 
100 gp worth of raw gold. 


Chamber #12 

This room contains the linchpin encounter of 
the adventure, the Elders of the Orcish War Band, 
Slaying these leaders will rout the orcish forces 
inside the base and scatter them back across the 
Veng. Four torches light the 15-foot-high cham 
ber, one in each wall. The Elders have heard the 
combat as PCs fought their way through Chamber 
#13, and now stand ready to fight. These 
humanoids represent the elite of luz's secret 
forces in Furyondy, 

Ore Leaders (4); Int Avg; AL LE; AC 4; MV 9; HD 
2; hp 16; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
+ 1 to weapon damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite 
(14); XP 65, Both wield long swords, 

Orogs (2): Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; HD 3; hp 
24; THACO 16 (adjusted); #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; 
SA +1 to weapon damage (not including magical 
long sword); SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65. 
Both wield long swords +1* 

Ogre (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; 
hp 33; THACO 17; #AT 1 Dmg: 1-10; SA +2 to 
weapon damage; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Steady (12); XP 
175, It fights unarmed. 

The PCs find maps detailing luz's war plans 
spread on a table in the center of the room, as 
well as 300 gp and two healing potions in a chest 
in a corner. The maps detail the war plan 
described at the beginning of the chapter. 

When the ores discover the death of their lead 
ers, their morale automatically fails and they 
shout the news throughout the complex as they 
attempt to flee. Of course, the possibility exists 
that the PCs won't realize that the deaths of the 
Elders will cause the remainder of the ores to bolt; 
rangers will automatically know this, but give 
other PCs an Intelligence check to make the obvi 
ous deduction-they've fought enough ores by 
now to know how they operate! 

Of course, if the PCs don't make this realiza 
tion, they might simply snatch luz's plans and 
hightail it out of the complex-which, since the 
ores will eventually stumble across their fallen 
leaders, will do the trick too. 


and foodstuffs (edible, but generally repulsive, to 
non humanoids). In addition, the PCs find a crate 
containing six potions of healing . 


Chamber #9 

This serves as an outpost station to prevent 
entry into Chamber #10, The chamber, 30 feet 
high, contains both ores and orogs in the guard 
post. 

Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 7; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15. All wield 
broadswords. 

Orogs (2); Int High; AL LE; AC 4; MV 6; HD 3; hp 
15; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA +1 to 
damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65. Both 
wield long swords. 

The passage to the south leads to the caved-in 
mine entrance (impassable). The passage to the 
north leads to the complex's payroll depository. 


Chamber #10 

This 25-foot-high chamber contains the payroll 
depository for the war band. A wooden slatted 
gate fastened with a small padlock covers its 
entrance. The PCs can see numerous crates and 
sacks through the gaps between the slats. 

An ogre inside waits to attack any unauthorized 
individuals in the chamber. It takes him only a 
moment to realize this also includes the PCs. 
Since he hides behind several large crates, roll his 
chances for surprise normally. 

Ogre (1): Int Low; AL CE; AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; 
hp 22; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA +2 to 
weapon damage; SD Nil; SZ L; ML Steady (12); XP 
175, 

The various crates contain 2,000 gp, 8,000 sp, 
and 12,000 ep, all of mixed mintage. A broad 
sword +7 has been hidden underneath the crate 
containing the copper pieces. Players will be 
tempted to have the PCs take as much treasure as 
they can possibly carry, but remind them about 
encumbrance and the effects it could have on 
their characters' combat abilities. If the players 
seem greedy, be sure to have them specifically 
account for the amount of weight their characters 
carry. 


Chamber #11 

The ores had no particular use for this cham 
ber, so left it empty and unguarded. Close exami- 


31 
















c T(ie Secret 'Base 





Chamber #13 

This chamber guards the war room of the War 
Band Elders, and contains some of the best regu 
lar ore troops in the complex. All have superior 
morale scores. 

Ores (8): lilt Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 8; 
THACQ 19; #AT 1; Ding by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 15. All wield long swords. 

The noise of the fighting in this room alerts the 
Elders, who prepare for battle. If the PCs some 
how bypass these ores without battle, give them a 
+ 2 to initiative on the first round of combat 
against the War Band Elders, 


Chamber #14 

This chamber also serves as barracks, and has 
features identical to Chamber #2, including the 
ores. These ores, however, arc too far away to 
hear the combat in Chamber #1. The can PCs find 
60 gp total at various bunks in the chamber. 


Chamber #18 

This chamber holds the main orcish armory. 
Weapons and armor fill large crates, as well as 
lying scattered about the 20-foot-high chamber. 
Another padlocked, slatted gate blocks its 
entrance. 

Inside are enough arms and armor to equip a 
small army. Most of the armor is heavy orcish 
leather (treat as studded leather), designed for 
hit-and-run ground skirmish troops. 


Chamber # 16 

This chamber is the base's main guard station, 
safeguarding the entrance to the complex. This 
means the ores here are ready for trouble; little 
chance exists to surprise them. 

Ores (6): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 6; MV 9; HD 1; hp 6; 
THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ M; ML Steady (13); XP 15, All wield broad 
swords. 

Ore Leaders (2): Int Avg; AL LE; AC 4; MV 9; HD 
2; hp 12; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SA 
+1 to damage; SD Nil; SZ M; ML Elite (14); XP 65, 
Both wield long swords. 


Chamber #17 

Guard wolves inhabit this chamber, howling 
when they catch the scent of nonhumanoids in 
much the same manner as the wolves in Chamber 


#7. Unlike those wolves, however, these howls 
manage to alert the humanoids in Chamber #16, 
The wolves have a 50% chance per round of catch 
ing the scent of any nonhumanoid who passes 
within 30 feet. 

Again, the ores have penned in the wolves. The 
wolves attack if PCs let them loose, but are other 
wise helpless. Their chamber, unlit, stands only 4 
feet high. 

Wolves (3): Int Semi; AL N; AC 7; MV IS; HD 2+2; 
hp 18; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2-5 SA Nil; SD Nil; 
SZ S; ML Avg (11); XP 65. 

The tunnel to the north leads out of the com 
plex, to a secret entrance hidden in the nearby 
woods. 


Conclusion 


The defeat of the Elders of the Orcish War Band 
scatters the secret humanoid forces and destroys 
Iuz's fledgling plan to conquer Fur yon dy. With 
Iuz's war maps now in hand, Jakartai and Belvor 
can anticipate his moves and prevent him from 
fomenting a similar plan. Border posts along the 
trade route are fortified, fully garrisoned, and 
given adequate funds for their maintenance. 
Jeremiah successfully delivers Jetero's book, 
which provides ample evidence to convict 
Sergeant Krayquer as a traitor, GilImore has him 
interrogated until he talks, and then orders him 
executed, 

Malin and Emerald successfully make the jour 
ney to Will ip and back again, delivering the ship 
ment of gold and returning to Great wall in time to 
stock it for the winter. Willip merchants still won't 
travel the trade route for the time being - per 
haps by the spring, when things have settle down 
-'but, after all, Jakartai cant have everything. 

As for the PCs, Jakartai gives them a hero's wel 
come in Great wall, doubles their reward and 
offers them positions with the Furyondian secret 
forces. The DM can use this as a good starting 
point for future adventures, or can devise other 
rewards that provide equally opportune jumping- 
off points. 

And, of course, there is always the matter of 
Iuz's revenge! The demi-power continues to 
scheme, outraged that his brilliant plans have 
been foiled by a group of rank amateurs. Next 
time, he will make sure not to entrust his plans to 
incompetents . . . Next time , . . 






















c 

rag; 

SOI 

n / 

viin< 

iS 


















c 

>ne sq 

uart 

 = 

20 fe" 

it 














































11 






















r 

, i- \-A-r - 






1 












1 



pL 









1 


2 

J 








Ji 

2 










1 

L 

d 


J 












| 


CI3 

Hi 

M 












10 








F 






















1 


















1 - '1 . : 





























1 J 







































































































































































1 

4 

--- 






















[ 

3 

















































m 

m 






















< 























i. 

j 




























i 









































WM -1 





4 




3 





































L 

Li 
































| 























i 

IL 

1 




















1 


" u 

1 
















l 

r 





















8 










































































































































































































































































)>-{ 


-7^// V^5z/ \ A f~^~ 

rVVV )~a 

A. y 

AflflpA/S 



kh/n/f f- '?i /-'" 7* rT.7y7 

Ax-  

3 HK V-( a )- 

- jyp-- f >. 



> /A. < 







"Pf/ \ / ^ 

/L yid/iM p / KP/l/ 
vOx ;* / 

iiichtnvC#. / 




> "7" V;,-< 

/ \ / j# // A /x )v-\ / if /V H gPV / 




/ / [ 

|y^c^ j | ^ 


M 


\ 

Y7 T 


// \_y \ / \ / v 

i / / \ / \ / \ 


\ / \_/ \ / \ /j 

7\ / \ / \_/^g 



^*^K?xVtHS)W' 17 r 

x)//h 

idspor^W Q r 

>&a/w<wt 


/ -\>l 




v 7 w , 


" \ 7#a- 



' ffijkti '^ 5 *': j ; - - hJI. A / 





\_/ Xz 

j ,/y 1 7 JvaI 




W&2| 

.p/7x7y7\ 

==X~aZTjvX 

\ fs2\ 



































Si 

m 

J# 

m 

lg| 


reatwall is in peril 


not from the military forces of 
Dll Iuz, but from lack of goods and supplies. Caravans 

> from Willip have ceased thanks to increased dangers 

on the Willip Critwall Grabford Trail. As the key fort 
positioned to contain the Iuzian flood, Greatwall is a 
strategic necessity. Its failure would mean a major 
incursion along the border. 

Your characters are hired to escort a caravan from Greatwall to 
Willip; if its merchants are afraid to come to the fort, the fort will 
go to them. This should be simple, cut and dried guard job. Right? 

Of course not. There are many surprises in store for your little 
caravan, and your characters will need to keep their wits about 
them day and night in order to make it to the other end. Secret 
plans are afoot, conspiracies are brewing, and nothing is as it 
seems while on the Border Watch. 

This module uses information presented in the From the 
Ashes boxed set and the Iuz the Evil accessories. However, 
ownership of these two products is not necessary to play this 
module. 


Advanced Dunffeons|^ragons 


Border Watch 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
WI53147 
G.S.A. 


TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 




ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and GREYHAWK are registered trademarks owned by TSR, 
Inc. The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. Copyright (r) 1993 TSR, Inc. AH Rights Reserved, 
Printed in G.S.A. 


781560"766315 






















