Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09222 WG 7 Castle Greyhawk"
See other formats
ruse with ADVANCED D&Ø* Game rules 


Approvei 


Advanced Dungeon 


Fantasy World Adventure 











Advanced Dungeons^pragons 


\VORJDof GRfVl IdWK 

Fantasy World Adventure 

Castle Greyhawk 



cceOits 


tABle of Contents 


Gditing: Mike Breault with 
Jon Pickens 

Cover Art: Keith Parkinson 
Interior Art: Jim Holloway with 
Jeff Easley 

Typography: Kim Janke 
Cartography: Stephen Sullivan 
Keylining: Stephanie Tabat and 
Dave S. LaForce 


Diatributcd to Ih* book tråde in Ihc l'nitcd State* by Ran 
dom Houm*. Inc., and tn Canada by Random lluuse of Can 
ada. Lid. Dist nbut ed to the to> and hobby trade by regional 
di"tributom Dtstributed in Ihe l'nited Kingdom by TSR UK 
Ud. 

ADVANCED DUNGBONS & DRAGONS. ADVANCED D&D. 
ADA I). WORLD OF GREYHAWK. DRAGON. PIEND FOLIO. 
PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION. and the TSR logo are 
tråde mark s of TSR. Inc. 

This advemurr in protected under Ihe copyright laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other unau- 
thorizrd uae of the raaterial or artwork cantained hc-rein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, 
Inc. 


c 1988 TSR, Inc. AH Right" Reserved. Prinled in U.S.A. 


TSR. Inc. 
POB756 
l.ake Geneva, 
W! 53147 USA 


TSR UK Lid. 
The Milt" Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 



TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF TOUR IMAGINATION'" 


Prinled in U.S.A. 


ISBN 0-088038-530-8 
9222 


What's Happening Now at Castle Greyhawk.2 

by Chris Mortika 

Level 1: Against the Little Guys .12 

by Steve Gilbert 

Level 2: It's Mv Party and 

PH Die if I Want to.21 

by Rick Swan 

Level 3: Too Many Cooks.32 

by Guy McLimore, Gr eg Poehlein, and David Tepool 

Level 4: There's No Place Like Up.44 

by Paul Jaquays 

Level 5: The Name of the Game.54 

by John Terra 

Level 6: The Temple of Really Bad 

Dead Things.63 

by Greg Gorden 

Level 7: Queen of the Honeybee Hive .73 

by Grant Boucher and Kurt Wenz 

Level 8: Of Kings and Colonels.83 

by John Nepbew 

Level 9: Vices 'N Virtues.92 

by Scott Bennie 

Level 10: Fluffy Goes Down the Drain.102 

by Rlck Reid 


Level 11: Mordenkainen's Movie Madness ... 111 

by Ray Winninger 

Level 12: Where the Random 

Monsters Roam .119 

by Steve Perrin 















(what's happening now 
.t castle QReyhawk? 



Greyhawk Castle 


S^ nctuf|T(5 storeys)' 


Scale: 1 Square = 30 Feet 




¦ 

¦1 

H 


m 


m 

V 

s 

IL* 

>9; 

1 Tr 

91 


The self-proclaimed Herzog Akitrom the 
Merely Womed is the latest in a long line 
of lords of Castle Greyhawk. He has initi- 
ated an intense campaign of advertise- 
ment meant to encourage worldly 
powers such as the Queen of Celene and 
the petty nobles of the Wild Coast to send 
daring settlers to the lands about the cas 
tle. 

As the Player Characters begin their 
adventuring, the Herzog is currying the 
favor of three VIP guests and all seems to 
be going well. But hold! The druids of the 
Golden Bough (in retaiiation for the Her- 
zog's Fireball Fun in the Forest program 
for visiting mages) are pummeling Castle 
Greyhawk with ferocious predators, 
tragic agricultural disasters, and horrific 
weather effects. Most disturbing of all, 
however, is the mysterious flood of fiend- 


ish monsters and ghastly creatures that 
has inexplicably overrun the proud 
dungeons under the castle. Wherefore 
this invasion? Someone must find out! 

A Layout and 
Description of 
the Castle 

Castle Greyhawk is more properly a 
walled compound that encloses two great 
towers and the Citadel Umon, a semicir- 
cular building positioned so that its 
rounded side faces away from the tow 
ers. The wall is circular, 25 feet high with 
a diameter around 400 feet. The only 
building outside the wall is a stables next 
to the southem gate. Otherwise the cas 


tle is surrounded by a clearing, whose tall 
grasses are poor and damaged by the 
usually inclement weather. The clearing 
extends in all directions from the com 
pound for 500 yards, and the castle 
guardsmen are frequently called upon to 
clear away any woodland encroachment. 

The wall itself consists mainly of un- 
worked metals (iron, lead, and perhaps 
some copper and zinc) with a brickwork 
covering. Thus it confounds rock to mud 
spells and it produces unusually strong 
defenses (80 defense points per 10-foot 
section). The wall is patrolled by 14 
members of the castle guard (one myrmi- 
don with long bow and broad sword every 
100 feet; see the description of the guard 
below) who scan both inside the com 
pound and out. Should a guardsman see 
something amiss. he will shout for help 


2 














before rushing to attack. 

The wall has one gate, on its Southern 
face. The gatekeeper is a crotchety old 
man who will demand a toll of 40 gold 
pieces less one for each point of Charisma 
of any females in the group desiring pas 
sage. This toll is for the whole party. 

The compound is the home of about 
150 NPCs. An eariy effort on the part of 
Herzog Akitrom to interest adventurers 
in settling at Castle Greyhawk, in combi- 
nation with an understandable craving for 
security, spurred the Herzog to hire al- 
chemists, sages, trainers, and many oth- 
ers whose professions might serve a 
party of adventurers well. Indeed, the 
castle contains nearly every luxury the 
PCs might desire. 

Qualifying this convenience, however, 
is the general attitude on the part of most 
NPCs toward strangers. Whatever the 
reasons, no Citizen of Castle Greyhawk is 
inclined to cooperate with the party un- 
less doing so would be to the NPCs ad- 
vantage. In all cases, dealing with the 
shopkeepers, clerics, guards, herdsmen, 
cheap troflops, and other castle inhabit- 
ants should be expensive and exasperat- 
ing, calling upon the DM s observation of 
the most petty and unattractive aspects 
of human nature. Consider the folio wing 
example: 

The fighter Celowin Silvershield, fresh 
from rescuing the castle from demonic 
hordes, has worked up an appetite and 
seeks repast in the Inn of the Snooty Sal 
amander, a tavern of high repute. How 
ever, Celowin's inquiries are met with 
derision from Tregillish Mul, the maitre 
d\ who informs brave Celowin that "All 
the tables are filled. There's a 10-tura 
wait just to get on the reservation list. 
Now be off with you!" Unless Celowin is 
quick with a pouch of gold (or perhaps 
even a minor item of magic!), the maitre 
d' will slam the door, and dinner will be 
iron rations yet again. 

Roil ldlOO and consult the following 
chart when the party interacts with an 
NPC. 


The "What's It Worth to Ya?" Table 
DIOO 

Roil Reaction from NPC 

Below NPC refuses to have anything to 
15 do with the PC and contracts an 
assassin at the earliest opportu- 
nity. 

15-30 NPC remains calm but refuses to 
cooperate. Given a chance, NPC 
shouts to the guard to arrest the 
PC as a dangerous assailant. 
31-40 NPC immediately attacks the PC 
for no good reason. 

41-50 NPC appears cooperative but 
takes active steps to frustrate 
the PC whenever possible. 

51-75 The NPC simply has better 
things to do than deal with the 
PC. 

76-85 The NPC, if approached kindly, 
gives the time of day, but nothing 
more. 

86-95 NPC cooperates with the PC as 
long as no danger or great incon- 
venience is involved. 

96-105 The NPC cooperates to any rea- 
sonable extent, and is even 
pleasant about it. 

106 and 

above The NPC is deliriously loyal to 
the PC and goes out of his way to 
follow the PC's dictates. (True 
fiendishness must be the DM's 
rule of thumb here.) 

There are, of course, modifiers to this 
roli, as follows: 

Each 10 gp worth of bribe +1% 

Magical bribe +20% 

PC's Charisma modifier Asper PH 
PC has helped the castle + 5% 

PC has personally helped the NPC +10% 
PC is of a different race -10% to -20% 
PC is known to be of a differing 
alignment -10% to-25% 

PC has charmed the NPC + 50% 

PC has interacted with this NPC be 
fore +10 to - 50% 

The casting of charm person spells or 
the like as a means of ensuring coopera- 
tion is considered a criminal act by the 
community of Castle Greyhawk. Discov 
ered perpetrators are likely to be fined 


severely, banished from the compound, 
or executed. Likewise, no NPC magic- 
user would ever consent to teach, or 
even admit to know, the spell. Even re- 
questing such a spell at the Temple of 
Wizardry is a great taboo. Nonetheless, a 
merchant or guard will occasionally fail 
into the particular type of stupor which 
results from being simultaneously under 
the effects of three or more charms. 

As with the clearing outside Castle 
Greyhawk, the areas of the compound 
between buddings suffers from the mete- 
oroiogical onslaught of the local druids. 
Characters traveling between buddings 
must allow for the weather as per the Wil- 
demess Survival Guide. Each game day, 
the DM must roil percentde dice and con 
sult the following table. 

Weather Table 
DIOO 

Roil Day's Forecast 

1-20 Bright sun, or partly sunny day, 

with pleasant temperatures and 
birdsong audible in the trees. A 
simply lovely day. 

21-40 Torrential rains and winds gust 
ing to 50-90 miles per hour. 
There is a 35% chance of a tor 
nado touching down somewhere 
in the compound. 

41-45 Chdly temperatures and over- 
cast skies. There is a percentage 
chance equal to the first two dig- 
its in the DM's telephone num- 
ber that there wdl be a hadstorm 
(largest possible hadstones). 
46-60 Arctic conditions, with tempera 
tures between 0 degrees and 
-40 degrees. There is often 
heavy sieet or snow, and winds 
reach 50 mdes per hour. 

61-75 Blisteringly hot temperatures 
(ranging from 90 degrees to 130 
degrees evaporates any precipi- 
tation from the previous day. The 
sun is mercdess, the air is still 
and dry. 


3 









76-80 Temperatures are mild, winds 
are strong (30 to 50 miles per 
hour) and there is some rain if 
the roil of ld20 is greater than 
that of ld8 rolied simultaneously. 
But best of all, there is a tremen- 
dous electrical storm. Charac- 
ters caught outside are 10 times 
as likely to be struck by lightning 
as in the WSG rules (due to the 
localization of the storm). There 
is a 20% chance for manifesta 
tions of ball lightning, which is 
harmless but dosely resembles a 
will-o-wisp. 

81 -90 Pea-soup fog with incessant driz- 
zle. 

91-100 Dust storm of greatest severity. 

The DM should note that any attempt 
at predicting weather will fail utterly. In- 
deed, attempting to cast such a spell will 
subject the caster to ldlO rounds of stun- 
ning with a 5% chance of temporary in- 
sanity. 

Regardless of where in the compound 
the party wanders, the DM should roli for 
chance encounters once every two tums 
(a 1 on ld6 indicates that an encounter 
occurs). The chart in Appendix C of the 
DMG is to be consulted with the follow- 
ing addendae: 

* The compound is certainly not a place 
where one finds travelers frequently 
passing through. Hence, all encountered 
characters are residents of Castle Grey- 
hawk rather than visitors, with the ex- 
cepdon of the visiting diplomats and 
officials covered below. Thus encounters 
are to be conducted within the guidelines 
set up for the mhabitants as detailed over 
the next few pages. For example, there 
are no druid encounters in the city! 

As a general rule of thumb, any en 
countered NPC is four levels higher than 
half that of the most powerful PC in the 
party. In all cases, encountered charac 
ters assume an air of haughtiness and dis- 
dain, for no particular reason. 

However, lest the DM think that all is 
mapped out for him, and that all he need 
do is consult his copy of this data, he is in 
for a serendipitous treat! There is not 
enough space to detail every NPC. Many 


are referred to by name, occupation, and 
pertinent details. Others are merely 
hinted at. It fails to the DM to flesh these 
NPCs out and make them truly memora- 
ble. 

The Tower 
of Wizardry 

This edifice is in the northwestem sec- 
tion of the compound. It is a five-storey 
structure, with all but the top floor re 
served for the study and tutelage of 
magic. The tower is 75 feet in diameter 
and reaches a like distance toward the 
sky. Another, hidden level lurks below 
ground, where illusionists practice their 
mysterious arts. 

There are several means of entrance 
into the Tower of Wizardry. The most ob- 
vious is a set of flouble doors on the north 
side. The doors are wizard locked at 15th 
level but otherwise free of locks or traps. 
Any Player Character who uses the re- 
sources of the tower frequently will have 
the option of buying a ring of passage, 
which allows the wearer to open the 
doors simply by speaking a command 
word. The price of this ring is 1,500 gold 
pieces. less 100 gp for each level of expe- 
rience the character has obtained. 

Should a PC not wish to buy a ring, he 
may simply knock on the door to be let in. 
Of course, anyone answering the door 
loathes such minor annoyance, and will 
charge 10-120 gp each time a character 
needs to be let in or out. (A PC who does 
not buy a ring of passage would be well- 
advised to carry a pouch laden with gold 
and gems!) 

Unfortunately, the castle's Thieves' 
Guild has made sport of these rings. 
Every one to three months, the burglars 
and magsmen get hold of a ring and the 
corresponding password. When this hap 
pens, the Tower of Wizardry will regret- 
fully inform the PCs that the password 
needs to be changed, and that new rings 
are available for the same price as the old. 


General Layout 

All levels except the top floor of the 
Tower of Wizardry have identical floor 
plans. There is a circular central room (35 
feet in diameter) with a spiral staircase 
rising through the center that connects 
with the adjacent le vels. There is a door 
to the north and one to the south. The 
rest of the level, an annulus (like a dough 
nut) 20 feet wide, is divided into two 
rooms: the northem half of the annulus 
and the southem half. 

By each door in the central room is a 
crevice marked with a sign reading (in 
common), "In case of Emergency." In 
side is a scroll with anti-magic shell in- 
scribed thereon. All rooms on all levels 
are lit with contmual light spells except 
where otherwise noted. Should the 
emergency scrolls be used. of course, 
the contmual lights will blink out. In the 
event that a PC uses an emergency 
scroll, the cost of replacing the scroll 
(2,000 gp) as well as that of the magical 
studies and experiments which must, the 
wizards insist, be restarted from scratch 
(100-2,000 gp) will be assessed. If the 
residents of the tower do not agree that 
the situation warranted the use of the 
scroll (and they are loath to admit that 
their own abilities might not have proven 
superior to unforeseen contingencies), 
then the PC will be charged triple the 
above costs. to discourage such hooligan- 
ism in the future. The scrolls disintegrate 
outside the tower. 

First Floor 

Center Room: This room contains 
storage and supplies for the rest of the 
tower. Because of the value of many of 
the spell components, such as vellum 
sheets with demons' true names in- 
scribed thereon, only authorized magi 
are allowed here. The door is enchanted 
with a permanent magic mouth, which 
will shout "Naughty, naughty!" at anyone 
trying to open the portal. Since all the au 
thorized wizards are of at least enchanter 
level, most of them merely cast dimen 
sion door to enter the storage area. Un- 
authorized intrusion into this chamber is 


4 









punishable by expulsion from the Tower 
of Wizardry (often from its highest pinna- 
cle!), banishment from the compound, or 
even execution. In extreme cases, per- 
petrators may be subject to the leeture of 
tedium by Ch'phon the Alchemist. Des 
perate characters fadng such a terrible 
fate have volunteered to impromptu ex- 
perimentation involving potion miscibil- 
ity. 

North Room: This is the residence of 
Merrang the Enchanter, one of the two 
sages in Castle Greyhawk. Merrang's at 
titude of imperious disdain toward any 
who dåre disturb his celestial musings 
hide an acute business aeumen. He wears 
a ring of truth and only memomes one 
spell: suggestion. His favorite use of this 
spell comes in casting it just as he casually 
asks, "Oh, that depends. Tell me, just 
how mueh money do you have?" His 
knowledge in the areas of the supematu- 
ral and the physical universe are average 
for a sage, but his fees tend to be 20% 
liigher than normal. He will unhesitat- 
ingly double these fees should he hear 
that his client has seen Zuphaitz (see 
page 9), as the two sages are bitter ri 
vals. 

South Room: This is the common li 
brary in the tower. The number of tomes 
is impressive. Any character abie to read 
both Suloise and Old Oerdian or Common 
can act as a sage with no fields of exper- 
tise by Consulting the library for 12 hours 
every day. Each dav of study runs a cu- 
mulative 1% chance (1% the first day, 2% 
the second, and so on) of coming across 
the only magical tome in the library, a 
Vacuous Grimoire. As the book moves 
around, it is possible for a character to 
come across the cursed manual even by 
picking up previously perused books. 
The librarian (Allam Oad, a bookish little 
thaumaurgist) has heard that the pesky 
book is present, but she will not wam the 
party without a hefty bribe. 

Additionally, along the northem comer 
of the eastem wall is a secret door that 
leads down to the illusionists' quarters 
below. Allam has yet to notice the traffic 
to and from that comer of the room. 

Allam is a gentie and helpful soul, will- 
ing to answer any questions to the best of 


her abilities, but she is stem with anyone 
who speaks in the library above a whis- 
per. (A typical punishment might be a si- 
lence spell made permanent on the 
offender.) 

Second Floor 

Center Room: This is the training 
chamber for magic-users leaming new 
spells. It is a sparsely decorated room, 
containing little other than a few buekets 
of sand and some scattered bone frag 
ments. This room is bound by two en- 
chantments. The first prohibits cantrips 
from operating within the confines of the 
chamber. The second acts as a dispel 
magic, cast at 12th level, on any magical 
effeet trying to leave the room. There is a 
concealed door in the Southern half of the 
floor, leading to the storage room below. 

North Room: This is a workroom for 
the scribes and clerks of the compound. 
Should the party require a translation of a 
text, it is 85% likely that at least one of 
the scribes will be able to read whatever 
is asked. Various inks, used in preparing 
scroll spells, are kept here. A less-than- 
scrupulous clerk may be persuaded (on a 
reaction roli of 125 after modifications as 
given on page 3) to seil a couple of vials 
for 500 gp per dram, as one dram is re- 
quired for the inscription of each spell. 
This cost is over and above any bribe the 
buyer might wish to offer. 

South Room: Contained in this room 
is a large magical device that regulates 
the temperature and humidity in the en- 
tire Castle Greyhawk. Therefore, try as 
they might, the local druids cannot affeet 
the interiors of any of the structures as 
long as this machine, which has ties to the 
elemental planes of both Fire and Water, 
remains. Likewise, were this machine 
destroyed, say by saboteurs, all charac 
ters in the compound would be affeeted 
by the weather. 

Also in this room are four xeg-yi (AC 0; 
MV 6"; HD 5,5,5,7; hp 23,36,21,35; 
#AT 1; Dmg 7-12: SA Energy Drain; SD 
+1 to hit, special; MR15%; IN High; AL 
N; SZ M) that rush to attack anyone who 
lingers in this room (10% eumulative 
chance per round). The xeg-yi have 


drained the continual liglu in this room 
long ago, and their inky black forms are 
-4 to be hit in the dark comers of this 
room. Should the regulatory device in the 
room receive at least 25 points of damage 
from detonating xeg-yi, it will cease to 
funetion. In the case that the PCs are re- 
sponsible for this disaster, the dungeons 
under Castle Greyhawk might seem a 
welcome haven. 

Thirdly, and perhaps best of all, this 
room contains three chests, for some 
reason reason or other. All three are 
made of boxwood and are secureiy bound 
in silver. Each is locked. The first chest 
contains 50 copper pieces and a cloaker 
(AC 3 (1); MV 1 '715"; HD 6; hp 22; #AT 
2 + special: Dmg Id6/ld6 + special; SA 
special; SD special; MR standard; IN 
High: AL CN; SZ L) that lies in wait and 
tries to radiate magic until someone puts 
it around his shoulders. The second chest 
contains 50 copper pieces. The third 
chest contains another 50 copper pieces, 
but painted on the bottom is a map of a 
section of the seventh dungeon level. 

Should an anti-magic scroll be read on 
this floor of the tower, it will cancel out 
the effeets of this machine for the dura 
tion of the spell. This will not occur if the 
anti-magic is invoked from any other 
room. 

Third Floor 

Center Room: This chamber seems 
to be yet another storeroom, littered 
with chests. In truth, this is the head- 
quarters of the Castle Greyhawk Assas- 
sins' Guild. Casseulet the Chief Assassin 
(AC 3: MV 12"; Lvl 12; hp 42; UKT 1; 
Dmg by weapon type; THACO16; ST17, 
IN18, WI12. DX15, C016, CH11; AL 
LE. Carries a short sword +3, a ring of 
protection +4, and a cloak of elvenkind .) 
and his two 5th-level henchmen train 
here most of the day. unless contracted 
to do a job. 

Should any character investigate this 
room, the assassins quickly disguise 
themselves as delicate elven maidens. 
Unfortunately, they can do nothing to im- 
prove their Chaiisma scores and hence 
appear to be particularly homely delicate 


5 









elven maidens. Their honey-sweet (if 
baritone) invitations to come in and "join 
us in a frolic amongst da old cases and, 
uh, some vials of, er, sumpthin' or 
odder" will require a saving throw vs. 
paralyzation on the part of the character 
who might attempt to stay. (As most PCs 
will race to see who's first out the door, 
this ought not be a problem.) 

Xorth Room: Here is the workshop of 
Ch'phon the Alchemist. He works with- 
out assistants and is expert at his work. 
However, he insists on being paid in the 
form of rare herbs that can be found "just 
a few miles to the East." Indeed. such 
herbs are both readily identifiable (with 
the proper nonweapon proficiency) and 
plentiful. Retrieving such plants, how 
ever, might prove to be an adventure in 
its own right as a trip to harvest the herbs 
is certain to run afoul of many gruesome 
creatures in the mountains. 

South Room: This is the quarters of 
Trucran and Ybenso. 14th-level wizards 
and apprentices of the great mage Rasp. 
Each knows the following spells (they 
share a spell book): Affed Normal Fires, 
Buming Hånds. Charm Person. Deted 
Magic. Friends. Grease. Identify, Melt, 
Message, Nys tul's Magic Aura. Taunt, 
Wizard Mark, Deted Invisibility. Flaming 
Sphere. Levit ate. Protection from Can- 
trips, Scare, Shatter, Web, Whip, Blink, 
Dispel Magic, Fireball, Fly. Item. Mate- 
rial, Sepia Snake Sigil, Tongues, Dig, 
Fear, Polymorph Other. Shout, Contact 
Other Plane, Extension II. Mor- 
denkainen's Faithful Hound, Wall of 
Stone, Mordenkainen 's Lucubration, Re- 
pulsion, and Mordenkainen 's Sword. 

These two wizards are in charge of 
training magic-users below 7th level. 
Trucran is grim. and speaks only to cor- 
rect and to reprimand his charges. 
Ybenso, on the other hånd, seems to en- 
joy tormenting his charges nearly as 
much as the DM enjoys torturing play- 
ers. He takes pains to show his students 
just how hopeless they are. Should a PC 
find himself being tutored by Ybenso, 
training will take an extra two weeks, at 
full cost, and there will be no 10% bonus 
to experience for one game month, so 
traumatized is the PC. 


Also in this room are five novice presti- 
digitators, eager to outdo one another in 
an attempt to hire out as someone's 
henchman. Between the five novices, 
they have collected virtually every can- 
trip they can find, and have had no end of 
amusement in casting these at embar- 
rassing moments. This behavior might 
well persist if one of these NPCs is per- 
suaded to join the party. 

Fourth Floor 

This is the inner sanctum of the Tower 
of Wizardry. Permission must be granted 
before entrance is allowed. 

Center Room: The lightdng in this 
chamber is dark and oppressive. The sole 
source of illumination is a brazier of coals, 
enchanted to remain warm and buming 
10 times as long as normal. Two bowls of 
incense are kept by the coals. In the cen 
ter of the room is a pentagram inlaid into 
the floor itself. Should red incense be 
placed into the fire. the pattem shifts and 
becomes a magical circle. Black incense 
also changes the pattem. fashioning it 
into a thaumaturgical triangle. (Yellow in 
cense changes it back into a pentagram.) 
This room is of course the conjuring labo- 
ratory, and it is here that the mage of the 
tower conducts his experiments. 

North Room: These are the personal 
quarters of the mage Cardoon (AC 0; MV 
10": MU 17; hp 40; *AT 1; Dmg per 
weapon or spell; ST 11, IN18, WI16, DX 
8. CO 16, CH 13: THACO 13; AL N). 
The DM should arrange his room such 
that Cardoon is unassailable here. His 
only weapon is a staff of the magi. Every- 
thing else was sold for the books in the 
southem room. 

Cardoon is a crusty old man who 
charges triple normal training costs. 
However, he is so expert at his skiils and 
at his teaching that he takes only half the 
usual time to train a pupil to rise in level. 
Once the student reaches lOth level, 
Cardoon insists that the character assist 
in the training of less advanced students. 
The magic-user will find his duties taking 
up five weeks every six months, during 
which time he will receive 250 gold. This 
assignment may be waived for a donation 


of a magical item worth at least 2,000 gp. 

Cardoon's spell books contain any spell 
he might need. He prefers to teach one of 
the spells known by his apprentices, and 
charges an extra 50 gp to teach another. 
The exception to this rule is the charm 
person spell. which neither Cardoon nor 
his assistants will ever reveal. 

South Room: This is Cardoon's per 
sonal library. All the books are written in 
Suloise and are extremely valuable. The 
books detail almost every spell known in 
the land. and provide recipes for inks and 
command words for legendary items of 
magic. 

This information is protected from un- 
authorized prying by the random inser- 
tion of booby-trap spells throughout the 
texts. Interlopers have a 5% chance per 
day (noncumulative) of running across 
one of these booby-trapped texts and suf- 
fering 30d6 of damage. Only Cardoon 
knows the locations of all the traps. 

Fifth Floor 

This floor is unlike the rest of the 
tower. As the highest point in Castle 
Greyhawk, the fifth floor was designed to 
be a key element in the defense of the 
place. The entire floor is one big room. 

There are two ways of entry. The first 
and most common is by teleporting. Al 
most as likely a means of entrance is the 
door leading from the fourth floor, which 
is wizard locked to prevent curious or un- 
invited people from descending the 
stairs. The floor here includes slots in the 
walls for the shooting of arrows, plus a 
catapult to launch normal rocks that poly 
morph into black pudding or rust mon 
sters upon landing. Thus far, this floor 
has gone unused throughout the castle's 
history. 

Underground Level 

This level is arranged much like the 
floors above, with a circular room flanked 
by two semi-annular rooms. But a pecu- 
liar addition to the floor plan marks the 
utilization of this floor by illusionists. 

Center Room: This room is the train 
ing arena for illusionists wishing to rise in 


6 







experience level. Its walls are covered 
with mirrors, but the room is otherwise 
barren. A secret door in the ceiling leads 
to the storeroom immediately above. 

North Koom: It is here that Paneuch 
the Illusionist (AC 3; MV 12"; ILL15; hp 
37: ST7 IN15 WI15 DX16 CN14 CH14: 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon or spell; THACO 
16; AL N) and his two visionist assistants 
reside. Paneuch wields a staff +4, a ring 
ofprotection +4, and a wandoflightning. 
Paneuch keeps this level of the tower se 
cret; not even Cardoon or the Herzog 
himself know of the illusionists. How- 
ever, should a PC illusionist find this lair 
and wish to train, Paneuch will be more 
than happy to assist, for appropriate pay- 
ment of course. He will reduce payment 
to 80% normal for gnome illusionists, and 
will charge deep gnome students only 
60% of normal training fees. This is due 
in part to the illusionist's earnest desire 
to leam how to pronounce "svirfneblin," 
and in part to his amusement at the possi- 
bilities of the Test (see below). 

South Room: The western half of this 
room is filled with gems, delicately 
carved figures, and other material com- 
ponents for illusionist spells. The eastem 
half, however, forms the Test Chamber. 

In order for an illusionist to pass his 
level training, he must pass a test devised 
by Paneuch. Prefabricated walls can be 
erected so as to engineer a diabolical lab- 
yrinth in this area, which Paneuch is cer- 
tain to change each time. The goal of each 
test differs. Sometimes the student need 
merely thread the maze. At other times 
the pupil might be required to combat a 
foe, recover a treasure, or cast a particu- 
lar spell at a target. 

To spice things up a bit, Paneuch hires 
three duergar warriors to provide opposi 
tion in the maze. These fighters attack 
with anklys, but only to subdue, as Pa 
neuch does not desire to see his cus- 
tomers killed in his Test. The gray 
dwarves will make an exception to this 
policy should a deep gnome be found in the 
maze. In this case, the gnome must fiee or 
defend himself, as the duergar will seek to 
kill their hated rival. As gray dwarves are 
totally immune to illusion, the svirfneblin 
may be in for quite a battie. 


Somewhere in the labyrinth is a one- 
way teleporting pad. Anyone who stands 
on the pad for one round is immediately 
teleported to a randomly chosen spot in 
the sixth level of the Greyhawk dungeon. 

The Citadel Union 

The hub of the day-to-day activities in 
the compound, the Citadel Union stands 
as a single-storey edifice to the routine 
that has become unique to Castle Grey 
hawk. The union has two doors on its 
north wall and frequent Windows along aU 
its sides, but alas, no more can be de 
tailed regarding the interior of the Citadel 
Union's floor plan. The amount of space 
necessary to describe every nook and 
cranny of the budding is prohibitive. 
Should the DM recognize in himself a 
deep spiritual need for maps, it is recom- 
mended that he seek out a copy of the Hili 
Giant Fort (module GI, Gl-3, or GDQ 1- 
7) and cut out an appropnately-shaped 
section of the map, relabeling the rooms 
as he sees fit. 

The Union houses all manner of NPCs, 
and again the task of fleshing out the pop 
ulation of goodwives, brazen strumpets, 
and vampires that players naturally ex- 
pect to meet must fail on the able shoul- 
ders of the DM. Herein are described 
just those locations and businesses in the 
Union with which a party of bold adven 
turers might make frequent contact. 

Above Ground 

The Citadel Union has two levels, one 
above ground and one below. While one 
might imagine that living underground 
might produce a "bunker mentality" or at 
least a Vitamin C deficiency, it is assur- 
edly preferable to seeing the local 
weather every day. The following loca 
tions are found on the upper level. 

The Bazaar: This is one of the most 
complete magic shops in the Wild Coast. 
Its proprietor, Goodmerchant Keilbasa, 
is always eager to make a deal on any 
item in stock. He is 80% likely to have 
handy any potion the party might desire, 
50% likely to have any miscellaneous 
magical item. 35% probable to be willing 


to seil any magical weapon the party 
might name, and 2% capable of producing 
most artifacts of which the characters 
might have knowledge. 

Keilbasa is also willing to purchase 
magical items from the party and will 
press the matter if the characters have a 
particularly attractive item of magic. 

Keilbasa sets prices for magic at five 
times list price for potions and a full 10 
times list price for any other item. He is 
willing to bargain, but will incessantly 
point out the fine workmanship and deli- 
cate composition of his wares. Likewise, 
he will pay only 75% of the standard price 
of any magical item unless it is unques- 
tionably pristine. "Used wands aren't 
worth much more than used scrolls, you 
know," he has been heard to say. 

Keilbasa gets away with much of this 
by employing eyes of charming that an 
adventuring party once foolishly sold to 
him, as well as any potions of glibness he 
has on hånd and can swig while the party 
isn't looking. 

Keilbasa is somewhat dwarven- 
looking, with bright eyes and a keen wit. 
He keeps the shop himself, although he 
employs efreeti as guards in most cir- 
cumstances. 

The Merry Memory Moss Tavem: 
Run by the intelligent stone golem Hops, 
this is the only bar in Castle Greyhawk 
and hence the only place to take out ag 
gressive feelings without suffering im- 
prisonment. There is a perpetual bar 
fight in the joint, which has a cumulative 
3% chance per round of sweeping up any 
individual character. Should a PC be 
caught up in the fight, he will find himself 
facing three to five veterans, all of whom 
are very intoxicated. In addition to any 
other experience a character might re- 
ceive, he eams 5 x.p. each round he re- 
mains inside the tavem. All prices are 
reasonable, and Hops has more than ade- 
quate product to offer. For 150 gp, he will 
dmg anybody's drink with sleep poison. 

The Castle Greyhawk Guard 
Headquarters: This is the place to find 
both the offices and barracks of the 
guardsmen. The Captain of the Guard is a 
superhero who calls himself McDougal. 
He is generally uncooperative with any 


7 







Player Character (-30% on the Reaction 
Table). He most likely refuses to allow 
any of his guardsmen to accompany a 
party into the depths of Greyhawk's 
dungeon complex, but if he is persuaded 
otherwise. he chooses the most ineffec- 
tual, noisome, and irritating guards he 
can find. 

In the center of the barracks area is a 
red square painted on the floor. Anyone 
who stands on this shape and says the 
magical phrase ("Euler's Constant, 
Square root Pi. Take me to a circle on 
high! ") will be teleported to the fifth floor 
of the Tower of Wizardry (see above). 
Unfortunately, McDougal and his men 
hum this ditty most of the day, so every 
now and then a guard disappears acciden- 
tally. Because the telepordng is one-way, 
and because the door to the fifth floor is 
locked from below, some guards have 
starved to death before anyone in the 
compound noticed their messages for 
help tied to rocks and hurled from the top 
of the tower. 

The Headquarters of the Cava 
liers' Club: Located near the guard 
headquarters and in rivalry with them, 
the cavaliers and paladins here find fre- 
quent excuses to practice combat either 
outside in the courtvard (in all but arctic 
weather) or in the ballroom on the lower 
level. Every month. the cavaliers declare 
a "friendly" war on the local barbarians 
(including any PC barbarians) and issue a 
challenge. So far the barbarians have sent 
a token force to battie the knights while a 
major expedition sacks this headquar 
ters. This seems to satisfv both camps. 

The leaders among the cavaliers are 
between 8th and 13thlevel, while the ma 
jor paladin is Edrithabew the Antiseptic, a 
paladin of llth level who refuses to teach 
any weapons other than long sword, 
broad sword, lance. and scimitar, believ- 
ing all other weapons to be beneath the 
calling of a noble paladin. He does not 
charge for his services as a trainer. per 
se, but he scoms to tutor anyone who 
does not reward him handsomely, as gen- 
erosity is a hallmark of knighthood. 

Temple Greyhawk: This temple is a 
masterwork of political influence. Here 
can be found clerics of literally every 


Power in the Greyhawk pantheon, even 
those antithetical to one another. The 
priests here have noted that the Powers 
do not engage in direct confrontation but 
rather employ agents to achieve their 
goals. Seeking to emulate their masters 
in all things, the clerics, too, employ 
agents rather than take direct action 
against each other. And those agents, 
too, employ underlings rather than act on 
their own. Somewhere in the Castle, 
there are Street urchins calling one an 
other names, such is the extent of the an- 
tagonism between these priests. 

They are all eager to render any aid 
that the PCs might request. Because of 
intense competition, the individual orders 
hold frequent sales on particular types of 
spells they are willing to cast (roil ran- 
domly each game week). They are also 
willing to seil the party any magical items 
relating to their deities, such as mandes 
of Celestian or rings ofBoccob, or even 
cougb syrup of Incabulos. They will bless 
each item they sell, charging thrice 
standard price for such. The DM should 
consider this somewhat tasteless compe 
tition as a hybrid between a souvenir 
stand and the medieval peddlers of reli- 
gious icons. 

Herbalist's Shop: On the top floor of 
the Citadel Union, close to the staircase 
leading to the lower level, can be found 
the shop of Bheannhe of Tenser's Keep, a 
smaller proprietary than most, but at- 
tached to a greenhouse and a fungus gar 
den, each of prodigious dimensions. 
Bheannhe is a pleasant-looking woman in 
her mid-forties, but best ot all, she is an 
expert herbalist. Her prices range from a 
few coppers for common plants to 200 gp 
for exceedingly rare specimens. How- 
ever steep her price, however, she can 
guarantee to have just the sprigs, leaves. 
roots. fruit. bark, etc. that the party 
might require. And yes, she does carry 
the herbs that Ch'phon demands. 

Bheannhe is, however, a spy for the 
Golden Bough. She seems curious about 
such matters as castle defenses and ac- 
tivities in the forest. If the party answers 
her questions, she will subtract 50 gp 
from the price of any goods they pur- 
chase. 


Bheannhe is herself a druid, an initiate 
of the Sixth Circle, and will train any PC 
druid for half the standard fees in return 
for that character's sworn word to com- 
mit dire acts of espionage on her behalf. 
These activities might range from the 
theft of an important item of magic from 
some powerful NPC to getting an accu- 
rate accounting of the number of guards 
men to a quest to discover the means by 
which the Castle Greyhawk buddings are 
impervious to the siege of weather ef- 
fects. 

Lower Level 

Untouched by sunlight, the lower level 
of the Citadel Union is lit only in some of 
the shops and businesses, and not at all in 
the passageways between such estab 
lishments. The inhabitants, of course, 
know their way around the Union so the 
black-as-pitch sections do not bother 
them, but the PCs will most likely need 
either torches or some other source of 
light. If the party insists on stumbling 
around in the dark, then they might well 
find a forgotten, one-way passage that 
has led them to the dungeon's fourth 
level. And let nature (or what passes for 
it in the dungeons) take its effect. 

Because of the dampness on this lower 
level of the Union, all doors are swollen 
shut. This means an "open doors" roll by 
the party each time they wish to enter or 
leave any establishment. 

Ballroom: Close to the stairwell lead 
ing to this level, the original purpose of 
this 65 foot by 80 foot by 40-foot-high 
room has been lost in legends. There are 
torches lining the walls, but anyone who 
touches one must save vs. spell or be 
cursed to speak only lies until a remove 
curse spell is cast. Various organizations 
that require large areas for practice their 
skiils are often found here. The room 
gets its name from the grandiose masked 
ball the Herzog holds here every year. 

Former Torture Chamber: This 
room was once an arena for physical pun- 
ishment and torture. Now it is a squash 
court, primarily patronized by yuppie 
cavaliers. 

Should a PC wish to play, a game costs 


8 








3 pp. An opponent can be generated us- 
ing Method Five in the Unearthed Arcana 
tome. Players aitemate roils of 4d6 
against their Dexterity scores. The first 
player to roil above his PC's Dexterity 
score loses the point. (Games go up to 21 
points.) A player may subtract one from 
his roil for every two experience levels of 
the player and for each nonweapon profi- 
ciency slot the PC has assigned to his 
squash skilis. The first player to win two 
games wins the match. 

Money rarely changes hånds here, but 
a PC can eam (or forfeit) respect in the 
eyes of an opponent ( +1 or -1 on the 
Reaction Rolis for the NPC for every 
game won or lost). 

Combat Training Facility: The phil- 
osophical differences between Rhie, a 
neutral evil Lord of 12th level, Vernol, a 
neutral good 13th-level ranger Lord, 
Gorp, a chaotic neutral barbarian of 12th 
level, and Sushi. a iawful neutral Master 
of the West Wind. have been put aside so 
that the four may profit from the opening 
of this facility. The rates for training are 
standard, and this is one of the best 
places in the Castle to look for fighting 
henchmen. 

Rhie is a brutal trainer, having leamed 
torture methods from a half-orc once. His 
students suffer 1-2 points of damage per 
day of training. As Rhie does not allow 
breaks in the Schedule for healing. many 
of his slow-leaming students die in train 
ing. 

Vernol is a lover of the woods, and will 
insist that his students practice their 
skilis in the forests. His area is far enough 
away that the weather is not too bad, but 
the woods are not known for safety. 

Gorp, as mentioned earlier, leads his 
charges against the snooty cavaliers each 
month. 

Sushi's training involves the success of 
the student in personal combat. He will 
insist that the PC seek out someone of his 
own level and, without explanation, beat 
them in some sort of combat. He will 
sometimes assign such a target; this tar- 
get may be another PC. 

Stuck Doors B Us: These two enter- 
prising characters, a dwarf named Snap 
per and a half-ogre named Fido, will open 


stuck doors for the party for 50 gp. Even 
in the dungeons, these two have a knack 
for showing up just when they are most 
needed. 

Citadel Sage's Quarters: In and 
among the seamier sections of the Cita 
del Union can be found the dwelling of 
Zuphaitz, a sage of high repute. His major 
field is humankind, with special emphasis 
in legends, history, customs. and mixed 
drinks. He has no minor fields. Due to an 
unusual (in a sage) stupor, he will take 
twice the normal time to research an an- 
swer for any employer. 

Moreover, a rivalry exists between 
Zuphaitz and Merrang (see page 5), and 
neither sage will aid a party that admits to 
seeing the other sage. However, should 
the party be short of money, Zuphaitz will 
waive his fees in return for the PC s' 
agreement to steal a particular treatise 
on magical intoxicants from Merrang's li 
brary. The details of this misadventure 
are left to the DM, whose mind no doubt 
already races with sinister ideas. 

Dw-arven Pride Armory and 
Smithy: Here is the workshop of Hard- 
tack the Mighty, who can craft anything 
from metals that the party would desire. 
He can tum out goods at the rate listed in 
the DSG, but insists on payment in the 
form of labor, with two PC s serving as ap- 
prentices for one day per 10 gp cost. 

Moneychanger, Vault, and Tax 
Collector: At the entrance to the 
dungeons waits Fudge the Incessant, 
hand-picked by the Herzog to monitor 
the monies coming from the dungeons 
and make certain that the castle gets 
more than its fair share. Fudge is 
equipped with a wand of metal and min 
eral detection (just enough charges) and 
will spot any attempt to sneak money 
past him. Tax rates at Castle Greyhawk 
are 1% times the average level of the 
PCs. 

Aside from taking money, Fudge can 
also store it for the party (2% interest 
charge per game month) or lend it (at an 
interest rate of 2% per game week and 
the borrower's finest item of magic as 
collateral). 

One genuinely useful service Fudge 
provides is to exchange bulky copper and 


silver pieces for more convenient coins 
or gems. He can convert any amount the 
PCs request to any medium, with his 
magical bag of exchange (which converts 
monies according to the will of its owner), 
for a fee of 100 gp. 

Thieves' Den: This is not precisely a 
location, as the den is never in the same 
place twice. The den master, a 17th-ievel 
Master Thief, goes by the name Prain- 
gaim. Lest thief-acrobats fret, it should 
be pointed out that Praingaim owns a hat 
of difference, with which he becomes a 
17th-level Master Thief-Acrobat. He 
never holds den meetings in the same lo 
cation twice. Possible locations include 
the uppermost floor of the Tower of Wiz- 
ardry, the Dwarven Pride Smithy, the 
Headquarters of the Guard, the kitchen 
of the Herzog's Sanctum, and the ninth 
level of the dungeon. 

Praingaim is always assisted by 1-4 
students of levels 4-9. The Master Thief 
has a particular fondness for anything 
magical and is more than happy to relieve 
the PCs of anything magical that isn't 
held tightly. Supply Praingaim with lots of 
nasty equipment if the PCs are foolish 
enough to attack him. 

The Herzog's 
Sanctum 

The third budding of Castle Greyhawk 
is a three-level tower in the northeast 
area of the compound. In this bemoated 
cylinder may be found the living quarters 
of the Herzog, his family, and guests; it is 
here that the PCs can find lodging and 
companionship. 

Like the Wizards' Tower, the Herzog's 
Sanctum has but three chambers per 
level. However, the floor plan is arranged 
a bit differently. The central spiral stair- 
case has one door every three feet of ele 
vation (three doors for every 360-degree 
full circle of the spiral). Thus doors 1,2, 
and 3 (leading to rooms 1, 2, and 3, re- 
spectively) are on the first floor (even 
though room 2 is three feet higher than 
room 1. and room 3 is three feet higher 
still). Rooms 4, 5. and 6 form the second 
floor, etc. The arrangement is such that 


9 







room 4 is directly above room 1 and is 
nine feet higher. Likewise with rooms 2 
and 5 and rooms 3 and 6. 

The rooms in this tower are all in the 
shape of pie slices. All rooms are locked, 
and only Herzog Akitrom and his fair 
daughter have keys. However, once a 
thief can pick any iock successfully, he 
may add a +30% bonus to any roll in an 
attempt to pick any other lock in the 
Sanctum thereafter. 

Lighting arrangements in the Sanctum 
were designed by the Herzog's grandfa- 
ther. whose sense of decor was a bit bi 
zarre. Each room is lit by a ceramic frog, 
its open mouth revealing the light of a 
continual light spell. These light sources 
are permanently affixed with a quantity of 
sovereign glue, and any attempt to budge 
one results in its destruction instead. 

Room 1: This northem room has an 
outer door leading to the bridge across 
the moat. This room, the parlor of the 
Sanctum, is populated by six permanent 
unseen servants, who wiU attempt to 
strip all visitors of cloaks, weaponry, ar 
mor, and perhaps clothing. These items 
are stored in a small anteroom o ff to the 
Southwest, under Room 3. There are a 
few comfortable chairs in the parlor, but 
little else. 

Room 2: This is the kitchen for the 
Sanctum. Two servants, J'nierce and En- 
frahl. are always busy here. Their rec- 
ipes run the gamut from the mundane to 
the decidedly exotic. such as Gorgon- 
burgers and the breakfast feature of 
sweet-trolls. the latter to be eaten with 
inordinate promptness. 

Room 3: This is the Dining Hall. Along 
the tastefully wood-paneled walls are 
portraits of the Herzog's ancestry. He 
can spend hours recounting their ex- 
ploits. On the table is a candelabra, which 
is usually lit during meals. There is a 5% 
chance each meal for the candles to actu- 
ally be a form of incense of obsession. If 
so, anv deric at the table must make a 
save vs. paralvzation to avoid the effects 
of the smoke. 

Room 4: This room has plenty of 
bunks and a wash basin. This is the room 
given to the PCs during their stay here. 
The beds are comfortable but spartan. 


Room 5: This is the headquarters of a 
competing adventuring party. Higher 
level than the PCs and bullying whenever 
the opportunity arises, these adventur 
ers have fallen on hard times of late. Re 
cently. they were attacked by troils and 
slaughtered until only the druid, LeDurt, 
remained. Mighty though he was, Le 
Durt could only reincamate his allies and 
hope for the best. They did not get lucky. 

Nesselrode is a 12th-level wizard who 
finds that a badger body. being ill- 
equipped for either verbal or somatic 
components, is a severe handicap for a 
spell-caster. He carries with him a ring of 
shooting stars and a staff of the magi. His 
mood is generally dour, and he has been 
known to bite characters on the ankle for 
little or no provocation. 

Kashahr was a lOth-level paladin be- 
fore he came back as a pixie. Although he 
still retains his paladin abilities, his war- 
horse died of laughter upon seeing his 
new condition, and he has not yet been 
able to summon a new one. Not surpris- 
ingly, Kashahr carries no magical items. 

Brabu's thieving skiils were drastically 
affected by her reincamation as a cen- 
taur. (Racial modifiers to thieving skilis 
are as foliows: PP: -15%, OL: -10%, 
FT/RT: +5%, MS: -50%, HS: -25%, 
HN: +5%, CW: -85%, RL: +15%.) 
She treasures her ring oftiying. 

The NPCs were willing to kill them 
selves and try again, when LeDurt was 
attacked by a handful of wights and re- 
duced to third level. He carries a staff of 
the woodlands +2 and has decided that 
the dungeons undemeath Castle Grey- 
hawk are too lucrative to pass up, and 
hence has not allied himself with the 
Golden Bough in their efforts to reduce 
the castle to rubble. 

The Dungeon Master should feel free 
to use this party to irritate the PCs at any 
reasonable opportunity. They have a 
knack for finding secret doors the party 
overlooks and for daiming any mound of 
treasure the PCs abandon. These NPCs 
are also more than willing to undertake 
any assignment for the Herzog, and are 
spiteful enough to do so for the sole pur 
pose of denying the assignment to the 
PCs. 


Room 6: This room is normally un 
used, but any other adventuring parties 
or additional guests may be boarded 
here. 

Room 7: The foreign diplomats and 
envoys the Herzog wishes to entertain 
stay in these opulent quarters. The spe- 
cific occupants should come and go at 
regular intervals, but they should without 
exception be haughty and condescending 
to the loutish PCs, as it is beyond their 
understanding why the Herzog would 
embarrass himself by keeping such 
scoundrels within his walls. 

Room 8: This double-sized room is 
the lair of both His Excellency, the Her 
zog Akitrom, and (behind a screened-off 
area) his lovely daughter Risotta. 

The Herzog is blond, with a heavy 
beard and 40 pounds of encumbrance 
around his waist he could do without. He 
is a 15th-level Lord (96 hit points) who al 
ways wears bracers of de fense, AC3, a 
ring of protection +3, a cloak of protec- 
tion +2,aringofmagicresistance, 15%, 
and a defender sword +4 named Her 
bert. He may wear other items of magic 
as the DM feels appropriate. 

The Herzog is a kindly man who does 
his best to accomodate the PCs. within 
reason. As long as they carry out his will, 
he is most generous. However, he 
brooks no foolishness, and his will can be 
hard at times. He has an 18 Wisdom and 
cannot be intimidated. 

His daughter is the most treasured of 
his possessions, his fine dungeons Corn 
ing a close second. Risotta is the arche- 
type of romantic princesses. Her black 
hair sweeps around the classic lines of 
her face. She is graceful, charming, and 
tasteful. Alas, she also has the brains of a 
three-day-old tuna fish sandwich. Her 
most endearing qualities are her delicate, 
piercing scream and her ability to faint at 
will. 

Unless the PCs break into this room, 
they will never enter, as the Herzog 
keeps these quarters closely guarded. 
The most noticeable feature may be the 
three efreeti he keeps here as guards. 


10 















The Herzog's Problem 

Akitrom has reason to be proud of his 
accomplishments. Delegates from 
nearby lands have finally begun coming to 
Castle Greyhawk in order to observe the 
security of the place and its worthiness as 
a place to send criminals...er, that is set- 
tiers. 

But the idiot druids of the Golden 
Bough are making a hash of things and. to 
make matters worse, there's something 
going on in the dungeons. 

Of late, the voluminous passageways 
and labyrinthine chambers below have 
been filling up with monsters of all sorts. 
Indeed, some of them have been spilling 
over into the castle proper. At appropri- 
ate times in the campaign, the DM should 
alert the PCs to such emergencies as: 

1 Mustard Jelly: AC 4; MV 9": HD 
7 + 14; hp 47; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 5d4 or 
2d4/2d4; SA special; SD special; MR 
10%; INT Average; AL N; SZ L in the 
kitchen. 

3 Ixitachitl: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 1 +1; 
hp 4. 6, 9; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; SA Nil; SD 
Nil; MR Standard; INT Average; AL CE; 
SZ M in the Sanctum moat. 

10 Tiraphegs: AC 10; MV 3"; HD 2; hp 
10 each; #AT 3; Dmg ld4 (x3); SA Stran- 
gle; SD Illusions; INT Average; AL N; SZ 
M making a nuisance of themselves in the 
bar. 

200 Mini-onions of Set: AC 9; MV 6"; 
HD 1/4; hp 1; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA Nil; SD 
Nil; MR 2%; INT Low; AL LE; SZ S [1 
inch tall] terrorizing the Tower of Wiz- 
ardry as agents of the Golden Bough. as a 
distraction from a force of vegepygmies 
or needlers attacking the gate. 

1 Crypt Thing: AC 3; MV 12"; HD 6; 
hp 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA Teleport; SD 
Magic needed to hit; MR Standard; INT 
Very; AL N; SZ M hanging around the 
Darty's quarters for lack of any thing more 
constructive to do. It will teleport party 
members 0-3 (ld4-l) levels below the 
deepest they have explored in the 
dungeon below, if the characters fail their 
saving throws vs. paralyzation. 

And so on. 

The Herzog would gladly clear his 
dungeons himself, but he has no time to 


spare for such delights, as his guests 
must be wined and dined and the Golden 
Bough must also be tackled. And so, he 
calls the party together and requests 
their aid. 

He will put the resources of Castle 
Greyhawk at the PCs' disposal (for the 
appropriate user-fee, of course) if they 
can determine the cause of the infestation 
and put an end to it. There are items of 
power as well as vast treasure in the 
rooms below, and the PCs are welcome 
to all they can carry, minus the small tax 
as noted earlier. Also, if they could con- 
sent to map out the layers below, the 
Herzog would deeply appreciate it, and 
will in faet pay 1,000 gp per dungeon level 
entirely mapped. He can offer no more. 

"Oh, piease," sighs Princess Risotta, 
"Say you'll do it." 

And so begins the adventure! 



11 





¦ Level i : AQAinsi 
IShe Little quys 



Greyhawk Dungeon-Level 1 


Glowing Wall 


Ci.V* 


Scale: 1 Square =10 Feet 


Key 

Barret 

Column 

Stalagmite 

Pit 

Iron Bars 
Gate 
Dry Moat 
Secret Door 


This adventure is for five to eight charac- 
ters of 0 to 2d level. The dungeon itself is 
very light-hearted in tone, with a wide va- 
riety of humorous creatures and charac- 
ters whose behavior ranges from zany to 
comic-bookish. DMs looking for a hard- 
core dungeon dive should probably by- 
pass this adventure. But for those of you 
interested in a break from your typical 
save-the-universe-before-sundown ad- 
venture, this may be what you were look 
ing for. Be forewamed, though, that 
some of the encounters in this dungeon 
are exceptionally dangerous and require 
thoughtful play to overcome. 


DM's Information 

The dungeon in this adventure is the 
first level beneath Greyhawk Castle. 
While this adventure can be played inde- 
pendent of the other adventures, the 
story line is linked with the grander 
scheme of the dungeon. 

The Random Monster Generator, lo- 
eated on the lowest level of the dungeon, 
is running on Full Automatic. Most of the 
random monsters created are normal, 
but a few, as always happens in mass pro- 
duction, have a defect or two. Fortu- 
nately, the Random Monster Generator 
is equipped with an intemal quality Con 
trol mechanism that teleports below- 
standard monsters out of the immediate 
area. To be specific, these monsters are 


teleported to the first level. 

It is there that Zando the Great, a mi 
nor magician, first encountered some of 
these deviant monsters. Zando, known 
to his friends as "The Weasel," immedi- 
ately had a plan. With a little work this 
dungeon level could be fixed up, cages in- 
stalled, a spot of paint, a few posters and 
viola!...Zando's Emporium of Exotic and 
Rare Beasts. 

Three weeks later Zando was almost 
ready, the cages were built, the beasts 
gathered and the dungeon cleaned. The 
dav before Zando was going to make his 
big announcement to the citizens of 
Greyhawk. disaster struck. One of the 
creatures escaped, captured Zando. 
threw him into a large cage and released 
all of the other monsters; many of whom 
immediately tumed on the would-be 


12 




zoo's employees. The only person to es 
cape was Culum, a small boy, who was 
able to slip through the bars of the cage 
and make his way to the Greyhawk ba- 
zaar. 

Culum is a well-known troublemaker 
and is often found nearby whenever 
something breaks or falis or disappears. 
Because of his reputation, no one in 
Greyhawk is willing to listen to, much 
less help, Culum rescue Zando (who isn't 
overly popular either). 

The adventure begins in the Greyhawk 
bazaar with Culum looking for a "mark," 
someone he can trick into rescuing Zando 
for free. 

The Adventure 

As the party reaches the end of yet an- 
other in the endless rows of stalls, tell 
them that they hear a disturbing noise. It 
sounds like a child crying. When they go 
to investigate, read the following aloud. 


As you tum the comer you see a small 
red-haired boy, perhaps nine or 10 
years old, sitting with his back against 
the wall. His clothes are dusty and 
ragged. His face is tear-streaked, with 
dark smudges covering his freckled 
cheeks. His hånds are clutched around 
a small battered tin cup that contains a 
single copper coin. From his neck 
hangs a tattered sign with the word 
"Orphan" written on it. 

Upon seeing your party, the boy at- 
tempts to dry his eyes with the tom 
sleeve of his shirt, smiles bravely, and 
says, "Copper for a new orphan?" 


This is Culum McCreedy. Culum has 
already decided these adventurers are 
just the pigeons he's looking for. The 
"new orphan" comment is designed to 
get the conversation rolling, but if your 
players are an especially hard-hearted 
bunch, then Culum won't hesitate to 
speak first. He'll tell the sad tale of how 
"Poor ol' dad has been lost in the 
dungeons below the castle for two days 
now. I can only assume the worst, 
ma'ams and sirs." 


Culum McCreedv: AC 9; Move 12"; 
HD 0; hp 2; ST7 1N13 W12 DX15 CNll 
CH14; #AT 0; Dmg 0; THACO 20; AL 
CN. 

Culum speaks with a cockney accent, 
and will answer all of the players' ques- 
tions with a "Yes, Sir," "No, Sir," "Beg'n 
your pardon, Ma'am," etc. Occasionally, 
Culum's tiny body is wracked with sobs 
when speaking of how his "Dear ol' dad 
was just tryin' to eam a few coppers for 
the evenin' stew. (Sob) His dream has al- 
ways been for me to taste a bit o' potato 
before I'm a full-grown man. Bless his 
soul." 

Show no mercy when playing Culum. 
Lay it on thick and pull every heart string 
you can find. 

Culum's goal is to get the adventurers 
to go down into the dungeon. To this end, 
he'll continually use phrases like "pre- 
sumed dead," and "assume the worst," in 
an attempt to get the characters to volun- 
teer to search the dungeon for his dad. If 
that doesn't work, Culum pathetically of 
fers them his one battered copper, (actu- 
ally he has 15 silver stashed in his boot) to 
look for dad. If the adventurers still won't 
go to rescue dear ol' dad then Culum will 
flat out ask them. Continued refusal 
means that you have no adventure this 
evening-close the book, fold up the 
screen, and stare at your players until 
they get the hint. 

Culum is a scoundrel and a scamp, (not 
evil, just annoyingly neutral). The only 
reason he's doing any of this is because 
Zando promised him "a piece of the 
action" if Culum would find someone to 
rescue him. 

Once your players agree to help, Cu 
lum beams with gratitude, thanking them 
repeatedly. He then takes a PC's hånd (if 
possible, that of the female with the high- 
est Charisma) and starts to lead the party 
to the dungeon entrance. As your adven 
turers make their way back through the 
bazaar, comment on how the shop own- 
ers keep eyeing Culum with obvious hos- 
tility and fear. (One pudgy apple seiler 
actually throws her arms over her apple 
basket as Culum walks by.) 

If the PC s talk to any of the store own- 
ers, they're told that Culum is a thieving 


little monster who ought to be packed off 
to reform school. Culum remains silent 
during the accusations until the adventur 
ers move away from the shop keeper. 
Then he apologizes saying, "Miss Tucker 
was tell'n the truth. I have wronged her, 
but my poor ol' dad was sick at the time 
and I had to get him some food or he'd 
have died, and that's the truth." 

Eventually Culum leads the characters 
into a two-storey shop. In the center of 
the floor is a trap door, bolted shut. 
"That's it. That's where my poor 'ol' dad 
went." Culum explains. 

Observant players may have a number 
of questions, such as "If your poor ol' dad 
is so poor, how can he afford a shop like 
this?" and "Why is there a private en 
trance in your house to the dungeons be 
low?" To all such questions Culum simply 
answers, "I don't know, Sir." 

If your adventurers want, they can in 
vestigate the rest of the house. The first 
floor contains nothing of interest. Up- 
stairs they find a small but well-stocked 
kitchen and a combination bedroom/ 
study with a single bed. 

In the bedroom is a table filled with pa- 
pers and legal documents. all of which 
concem zoning rights for keeping animals 
within the castle walls. A hidden com- 
partment in the table contains 50 gold 
pieces. A closet is filled with moderately 
priced magicians' cloaks. Characters may 
note that there is absolutely no evidence 
that Culum lives in this building. 

If questioned about this, Culum breaks 
down crying, "he was like a father to 
me." As usuai, Culum is lying. 

When the adventurers finally get ready 
to go down into the dungeon, Culum in- 
sists on coming along. If the adventurers 
refuse, Culum pretends to relent but fol- 
lows them down after they leave, catch- 
ing up as soon as they encounter the first 
monster. 

Thereafter feel free to use Culum to 
your advantage, having him run off at in- 
opportune moments, or urging the ad 
venturers on if they're about to give up. 
As Culum was present during the con- 
struction of the zoo, he is thoroughly fa- 
miliar with most of the monsters. From 
time to time you might want to have him 


13 










share this knowledge with the PCs. For 
example: 

Culum (clapping hånds on side of head): 
"Oh no, not (dramatic pause) 
...horizontal jet-propelled piercers!" 

Life In The Dungeon 

Besides being populated with defective 
monsters, this dungeon is constructed 
like a zoo. This means the PCs are going 
to see a number of unusual sights during 
the adventure. (Not many dungeons have 
a tumstile by the main entrance). When 
running the adventure. think of the Island 
of Misfit Toys from Rudolf the Red- 
Nosed Reindeer-toy trains with square 
wheels, a Jack-in-the-box named Her 
man, etc. 

As the adventurers joumey into the 
dungeon, point out how clean and well 
ventilated it is. Many of your players will 
probably think the entire dungeon is an il 
lusion. Let them, they'U find out the truth 
soon enough. 

Most of the monsters have left their 
cages. A few, such as aquatic creatures, 
had no choice but to remain where they 
were. As is always the case whenever 
large numbers of monsters are left alone 
together, the creatures of the dungeon 
have already begun to stake out lairs and 
prey upon one another. 

Sigh. Monsters will be monsters. 

The Dungeon of Misfit Monsters 
Area 1 


The trapdoor opens to reveal a sturdy 
wooden staircase leading downward. 
Attached to the wall to either side of 
the staircase is a hånd rail. 

At the bottom of the stairs, built into 
the wall, is a small wooden guard 
house with barred Windows, and an 
elbow-high shelf with a tiny slot just 
above it. On the front of the guard- 
house is a sign. It reads, "Adults-3 
copper, Children under 12-Free." 


The guardhouse is empty. 

A natural passage runs west from this 


point. Observant players who stop to ex- 
amine the passage will note that while it is 
a natural tunnel, the Door has been 
smoothed and dried, giving it a finished 
look. Ceiling height in the dungeon's tun 
nels varies from eight feet to 12 feet. 

Area 2 


The tunnel leads into a large chamber 
with grey, fitted-stone walls and a 
finely-polished limestone floor. A few 
reddish-brown stalactites and stalag 
mites protrude from the ceiling and 
floor, attesting to the faet that this is a 
natural chamber. In the center of the 
room are four pinewood tables, each 
surrounded by five stools. Against the 
northem wall stands an elbow-high 
counter. Two beer taps are built into 
the counter, and a small, stone fire- 
place is recessed into the wall behind 
the counter. A sign above the counter 
reads as follows: 


Ale, Pixie mug 
Peasant mug 
Jumbo mug 
Monsterburger 
Full tour 


10 copper 

1 silver 

2 silver 
1 silver 
Free 


Three small passages lead out of the 
chamber to the north, east, and south. 
An arrow painted at the entrance to 
the southem passage has a profile of a 
sea serpent emblazoned upon it. A 
similar arrow pointing toward the 
northem passage shows a bear. The 
third passage, the one you just en- 
tered from. has an "Exit" sign 
mounted above it. Other exits from 
the chamber include a wooden door 
set into the southem wall and a large 
natural passage leading farther to the 
west. A plaque mounted beside the 
last passage reads "This way to tre- 
mendous monster of gigantic propor 
tions." 


This chamber is a combination conces- 
sion stand/tour meeting area. Most of a 
zoo's profit comes from concessions, 
namely selling low-quality food at high 
prices. To this end, Zando set up his own 


concession stand. Once the zoo opens, a 
free tour of the zoo will leave this cham 
ber every hour. Between tours, zoo visi- 
tors must wait here, while their taste 
buds are tantalized by the aroma of Zan 
do's Monsterburgers, (no they aren't 
made from monsters but they are very 
large). 

Stored in cabinets beneath the counter 
are a number of untapped kegs of ale, 
several dozen mugs in three different 
sizes, 20 steak knives, 30 cloth napkins, 
three lantems, 15 flasks of oil, and a large 
supply of rapidly deteriorating vegeta- 
bles, (primarily tomatoes and onions for 
the Monsterburgers). Characters who 
search the counter have a 25% chance of 
finding a secret drawer (the register), 
which contains 53 sp and 110 cp. 

The fireplace is perfeetly normal and 
the chimney actually adjoins the chimney 
of Zando's house on the Street above. 
Beside the fireplace is a wooden crate 
filled with 40 pounds of coal. (Cooking 
over a coal fire tends to smother the fla- 
vor of the meat, a highly desirable result 
considering the meat Zando plans on us- 
ing.) 

The tables and stools are of your typi- 
cal barroom variety. The oniy thing of in- 
terest about them is that they seem to be 
newly made (Zando just purchased 
them). 

Area 3 


The door opens to reveal a short T- 
shaped corridor. The two ends of the 
T each end in another wooden door. 
Emblazoned upon one of the doors is a 
silhouette of a barbarian warrior hold 
ing a battie axe. Upon the other door is 
a silhouette of well-proportioned 
woman wearing a long flowing gown. 


These are the bathrooms, or rather 
these will be the bathrooms when the zoo 
opens (neither one has ever been used 
before). The door with the barbarian sil 
houette (area 3A) leads to the men's 
room. The other door leads to the wom- 
en's (area 3B). 

When the adventurers open one of the 


14 















doors, regardless of which one, tell them 
they see a small bathroom. The accom- 
modations are primitive but clean. A mir- 
ror, wash bowl, and towel sit on a shelf 
attached to one of the blue-tiled walls. 
The toilet itself is simply a round opening 
that disappears into darkness (the pipe 
leads to a central septic tank between the 
two bathrooms-more on this in a mo 
ment). You might also want to include a 
potted plant in the lady's room, perhaps a 
hanging fem. 

When the characters open the second 
door, describe the room as "identical to 
the last room, but there is a strange 
sound coming from the toilet, almost like 
a rumbling." 

This rumbling comes from a two- 
headed hydra that has taken up residence 
in the septic tank. 

1 Hydra: AC 5: Move 0" [stuck in sep 
tic tankl; HD 2; hp 16; MT 1 in each 
bathroom: Dmg Idé: THACO 16: SD re- 
generates severed head in ld4 melee 
rounds; AL N. 

This hydra has an exceptionally long 
neck. It has only two heads with 8 hit 
points each. While the hydra does grow 
back severed heads (i.e., heads that have 
been reduced to 0 hp), it does not grow 
them back at the two to one ratio as do 
normal lemaean hydras. However, what 
this hydra lacks in physical abilities it 
makes up for in intelligence. 

The rumbling sound heard by the charac 
ters is a ploy by the hydra to get the adven 
turers to tura their backs on the other 
bathroom. Immediately after making the 
rumbling noise in one bathroom, the hydra 
sticks his head up through the other bath 
room and attempts to attack one of the ad- 
venturers from behind. If the door to the 
bathroom is dosed, the hydra opens it with 
his teeth. Characters who aren't watching 
the door behind them are automatically sur- 
prised. As soon as the characters tum to 
face this attack then the second head rises 
out of the other bathroom and attacks, with 
surprise if possible. 

If one of the heads is defeated (treat 
them as two separate 8 hit point crea- 
tures), then the other head will suddenly 
retract back down the hole for ld4 melee 
rounds until the second head has regen- 


erated, at which time both heads will re 
sume the battie. As with the lemaean 
hydra, buming the neck stump perma 
nently kills a head. If both heads are dead, 
the hydra dies. 

Incidentally, any character who uses ei- 
ther bathroom before the hydra attacks is 
in for a big surprise. 

Area 4 


This bizarre chamber looks as if it's 
been tilted on its side. Stalagmites and 
stalactites are growing horizontally 
from the walls! In the center of the 
room is a pit covered by an iron grate. 
Milling slowly about the bottom of the 
pit are a number of giant mushrooms, 
their color varying from light green to 
bright blue. 


The stalagmites and stalactites are ac- 
tually horizontal jet-propelled piercers. 

24 Horizontal Jet-Propelled Piercers: 
AC 3: Move 1"; HD 1: hp 7.7,7,7,7, 
6,6,6,6,6,4,4,4,4,4,3,3,3,3,3, 3.3,2.2; 
#AT 1: Dmg ld6; THACO 19; AL N 
Horizontal jet-propelled piercers are 
indistinguishable from horizontal stalag 
mites until they are examined closely 
(from five feet away or less). These bi 
zarre creatures collect methane from the 
dungeon air, storing it in a special lung lo- 
cated at the base of their cone. Adjacent 
to the storage lung is another organ called 
the pyreen. On command the pyreen 
emits a small flame, igniting the stored 
methane, which propels the piercer 
through the air toward its target. Hori 
zontal piercers have a range of about 20 
feet and can actually adjust their trajec- 
tory in mid-flight simply by altering the di- 
rection of the methane emissions. 

These piercers mindlessly attack any 
creature that comes within 20 feet and is 
directly in front of them, regardless of the 
size of the creature (they sense body 
heat). After attacking once, it takes sev- 
eral days for the storage lung to restock 
its supply of methane, until then the hori 
zontal piercer can do nothing but ding 
helplessly to a wall. 

As soon as the characters enter the 


room, ld4 horizontal piercers attack. 
Thereafter, for every round that the 
characters reraain here, ld4 more pierc 
ers will attack until all 24 have fired. 

The pit is roughly cut about 10 feet 
deep and lined with fitted stones. The 
mushrooms are called leakers. 

4 Leakers: AC 7; Move 1"; HD 3: hp 
12,12,12,10: MT 0; AL N. 

A leaker is actually a strange variety of 
shrieker. Unlike a shrieker. however, a 
leaker makes no sound whatsoever, but 
when it is prodded or damaged, a brightly 
glowing green sap flows from the leaker's 
body. This sap will continue to glow, illu- 
minating an area 30 feet in radius, for up 
to eight hours before fading. Each leaker 
can produce enough sap to fill a lantem, 
thereafter the leaker must rest for 24 
hours. 

Area 5 


On the outer edges of the cavera, nu- 
merous stalagmites and stalactites 
cover the ceiling and floor. obscuring 
the room's perimeter in dark 
shadows. In marked contrast, the cen 
ter of the chamber has been cleared of 
all natural rock formations. Pock- 
marks and stumps are all that remain 
of the stalagmites and stalactites 
which once stood there. 


On the outer edges of the chamber are 
two features of interest. The first is a 
door on the northem wall. Painted on the 
door are the words, "EMPLOYEES 
ONLY." The second feature of interest is 
a two-foot-diameter black sphere, hidden 
in the shadows against the west wall. The 
sphere feels smooth and rock-like to the 
touch, but when tapped it reverberates 
with a hollow sound. 

Solid gas spore (AC 0; Move 0": HD 4; 
hp 16; MT 0; Dmg 2d4 + save vs. poi- 
son otherwise character is infected as per 
normal gas spore; SA Explode when 
punctured; AL N. 

Solid gas spores differ from normal gas 
spores in two way. First, they aren't 
nearly as easy to puncture (edged non- 
magical weapons break on a roil of 1 when 


15 








used against a solid gas spore). Second, 
when solid gas spores explode they inflict 
2d4 points of damage to everyone within 
30 feet due to shell fragments. 

Area 6 


Against the northem wall, separated 
from the rest of the chamber by a dry 
moat, stands an iron-bar cage. A 
plaque at the base of the cage reads, 
"Extreme Danger-Do Not Feed 
Meat." The cage is empty except for a 
few bones littered about its floor. 


This cage used to house the two mini- 
taurs now in area 9. 

There are two exits from the room-a 
natural tunnel leading south, and a 
wooden door with the words "EMPLOY- 
EES ONLY" printed on it. 

A ranger will recognize the bones as 
those of a bear. The bones were placed 
there by Zando to impress visitors. 

Area 7 


An iron gate lies propped against the 
wall. Brownish-red stalagmites and 
stalactites, light grev columns, and nu- 
merous patches of grey flowstone 
compete for space within the chamber. 
A tiny stream of clear water winds its 
way through the chamber occasionally 
widening into a small pool. 


Lurking amongst the flowstones and 
stalagmites is a ropeless (i.e., a small 
roper without any strands). 

Ropeless: AC 0: Move 3"; HD 5; hp 
15: #AT 1; Dmg ldlO: THACO 15: AL 
CE 

The ropeless is hiding in the southeast 
corner of the room and can only be spot- 
ted (10% chance) by characters actively 
looking. (Exception: Adventurers with 
out torches who are using infravision au- 
tomatically spot the ropeless.) The 
ropeless continues to hide until a charac 
ter approaches within five feet, at which 
time it suddenly springs up and attacks, 
surprising on a 1-5. 

Like a roper, the ropeless has a 


gizzard-like organ that contains 3d6 plati- 
num pieces and may contain ldlO gems 
(35% chance). 

As a simple advertismg gimmick, 
Zando plans on asking tour groups to play 
"Spot the monster." The first person to 
spot the ropeless wins five copper 
pieces. 

Area 8 


The passage opens up into an unusual 
cavern. The left half of the room is 
blocked ofr from your area by iron 
bars. An iron door in the center of the 
bars is shut. On the far side of the bars 
is a pool of water. Stalactites and 
stalagmites droop down from the ceil- 
ing and rise out of the water, occasion 
ally meeting to form glistening white 
columns. Swimming in the shallow 
pool between the columns are several 
sharks. 

A wooden door to your right leads 
out of the chamber. A sign hung on this 
door reads, "EMPLOYEES ONLY." 


These are not normal sharks-these 
are land sharks. 

3 Land Sharks: AC 6: Move 24" 16"; 
HD 3: hp 17,12,11; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 + 1; 
THACO 16; AL N. 

As their name suggests, land sharks 
can leave the water: in faet they can stand 
upright, walk, and even manage a short 
loping sprint on their rear fins when nec- 
essary (such as when the prey is running 
away). 

Characters who check find that the lock 
on the cage door is broken. Adventurers 
may tie the door shut with available sup- 
plies (rope, cloth, wire, etc.), 

When the characters enter the cham 
ber the sharks immediately spot them, 
swim over to the bars, and glare menac- 
ingly. This is meant to scare the party 
away (the sharks aren't particularly hun 
gry right now). 

If the adventurers attack or taunt the 
sharks in any way. all three sharks will 
rise up out of the water (the water is only 
waist high) and move toward the cage 
door with surprising speed. If the door 


has been barred by the characters then 
the sharks retreat back behind the 
columns and hide on the bottom where 
they are immune to all missile attacks. 
Otherwise the sharks charge out of the 
cage and attack with mindless ferocity. (If 
the battie is going too mueh in the sharks ' 
favor, have them stop attacking and drcle 
for a while-walk around the adven 
turers-until the party regroups.) 

Area 9 


This crowded room, smelling of salted 
meats, is lit by a glowing crystal ball 
attached to the ceiling high above. A 
small wooden table sits in the center of 
the room, surrounded by several 
chairs. In one corner stands an oak 
desk, the brass plaque upon it reads, 
"Zando-Office Manager." Stacked 
against the far wall are several dozen 
crates and barreis labeled, "Meat." 
Two creatures are struggling to tip 
over one of the barreis. The creatures 
are three feet tall with bodies like 
those of men, but heads like buils. 


If Culum is with the group he screams 
in terror, (destroying any chance of sur 
prise), crying out "Oh no, not mini- 
taurs!" Upon hearing the scream, both of 
the minitaurs wheel about and snarl at the 
party. 

2 Minitaurs: AC 6; Move 12": HD 1 
+2: hp 10,9: #AT 1; Dmg ld6; THACO 
18: AL CN. 

These are two very hungry minitaurs 
and they've staked out their claim. If the 
characters make any hostile gestures or ap 
proach the barreis, then the minitaurs at 
tack, trying to drive o ff the invaders. If the 
characters offer the minitaurs food, then 
the minitaurs drop all signs of hostility and 
scamper over to the party, whining and 
snorting like two playful pit bulis. Thereaf- 
ter the minitaurs foilow' the characters 
where ever they go, behaving as domesti- 
cated dogs (snar! at strangers, etc.). 

This room is a combination storeroom/ 
office/employee lounge. The dimensions 
of the room are 30 feet by 30 feet, with a 
15-foot-high ceiling. 


16 












The crystal ball is attached to the ceil- 
ing with magical glue. A dwarf or gnome 
may attempt to remove the globe by 
making a Dexterity Check. Success 
means that the globe has been detached 
intact. Failure means that the globe shat- 
ters and the spell is broken. 

The crates and barreis in the comer 
contain. for the most part. low-quality 
meats and grains for feeding the animals. 
The meats are packed in salt and must be 
washed thoroughly before they are given 
to the monsters. No human food is kept 
here. (Employees go to the bazaar during 
their lunch hour.) 

The oak desk in the comer is Zando's. 
Stacked upon it are a number of papers 
dealing with employee salaries, release 
forms, tax forms, etc. There is nothing of 
interest in the desk. A poster above the 
desk shows a number of cartoonish fig 
ures laughing hysterically and rolling 
around the floor. The caption beneath the 
figures reads. "You want it when?" 

Area 10 


The passage opens into a large, low- 
ceilinged cavem, the walls of which 
are covered with a luminous green 
fungus. Flowing through the center of 
the cavem is a stream. A newly-made 
wooden bridge crosses the stream. 
On the far side you see a holding pool 
of some type. Built around the holding 
pond is a five-foot-wide dry moat. 

A water trough has been cut into the 
natural stone floor, leading from the 
stream to the holding pool. Another 
trough winds its way around the out- 
side of the chamber, exiting down a 
wide, dark passage. A sign beside this 
passage reads, "Zando's Performing 
Porpoises-Showtimes: 10:00,12:00, 
2:00 , 4:00." At present both water 
troughs are dry, their connections to 
the stream blocked by boards. 

Two other passages lead out of the 
cavem. One follows alongside the 
stream, the other, a small damp pas 
sage, heads south. 


This room is frequently occupied by 
monsters stopping to quench their thirst. 
Roil for a random encounter as soon as 
the characters enter this chamber. 

The stream passing through this cham 
ber is just one of several that flow be 
neath Greyhawk Castle. The water is 
dark and cool, but quite clean and re- 
freshing. Characters checking for depth 
discover the water level to be just over 
waist deep (chin high on a halfling). Ad 
venturers may freely wade up- or down- 
stream if they so choose. When heading 
upstream, the ceiling gradually becomes 
lower and lower, until characters are 
forced to completely submerge them 
selves to continue. PC s who proceed be- 
yond this point will eventually drown. 
Characters who wade downstream reach 
area 12. 

The bridge over the stream is sturdy, 
made of newly cut oak, sanded and pol 
ished, with guardrails on either side. 

The fungus covering the walls is a 
harmless variety of green slime. Charac 
ters who touch the fungus find that it 
readily stains fingers and clothes. There 
are no other effects. The stain will wash 
out in warm water. 

The holding pond is a natural depres 
sion in the floor, some 20 feet in diameter 
and about 15 feet deep at its central point. 
The floor of the pool is carpeted with a 
layer of copper coins, sprinkled with a 
few silver pieces. Floating just above the 
coins is a spherical creature with one 
large eye in the center of its body, two 
eye stalks, and two thin arms, each of 
which end in claws. A small plaque at 
tached to the floor of the cavem beside 
the pool reads, "Cast a coin, and the de 
mon of the deep shall grant your wishes 

This is the official zoo wishing well. 
The treasure in the pool was placed there 
by Zando to encourage people to throw 
more coins in. 

The creature is an eye of the shallows 
(sort of a cross between an eye of the 
deep and a dolphin). His name is Howard. 

Eve of the Shallows: AC 5; Move 6"; 
HD 8: hp 35; #AT 3; Dmg Id6/ld6/ld6; 
THACO 12; SA Hold person spell once 
per round; AL CG 

While Howard looks like an eye of the 


deep. he behaves more like a dolphin, 
frolicking about the pool, attempting to 
splash the characters as they walk by. (Of 
course, your adventures might not real- 
ize Howard is playing.) 

If attacked, Howard casts hold person 
on the offending party and then retreats 
to the bottom of his pool to sulk. If espe- 
cially hard pressed in battie, Howard can 
cast a blinding flash of light from his main 
eye once per day. All characters within 
this conical ray (cone 1/2" at eye extend- 
ing 3" to a 2" diameter base) must save 
vs. death ray/poison or be blinded for 2d6 
tums. 

Howard has no need for the treasure in 
his pool. If the characters show a strong 
desire for this treasure without attacking 
(such as trying to fish some of it out with a 
small net), Howard will help out, scoop- 
ing up large mouthfuls of coins and then 
shooting them at the players (no damage 
but it stings a little). In all there are 500 
cp and 75 sp in the pool. 

The moat around the pool is five feet 
deep. 

The water troughs in the floor are one 
foot wide and eight inches deep. Zando 
carved out these troughs so he could refill 
Howard's pool and the dolphin pool in 
area 13 at will. 

Area 11 


This is a small cavem. In the center, 
supported by several sawn off stalag 
mites, is an oaken table, on top of 
W'hich sit four large aquariums. A rafl 
ing surrounds the table. Two orcs are 
standing beside the table. They look 
surprised to see you. 


The orcs standing before the party 
aren't really orcs at all-they're gas orcs, 
a strange mutant variety of the gas spore. 
Gas orcs look almost identical to real 
orcs, including the appearance of armor 
and weapons (one of the gas orcs is carry- 
ing a gas spear and the other a gas 
sword). 

2 Gas Orcs: AC 9; Move 3"; HD 1 Hit 
Point; #AT 0; Dmg 2d4; SA Explode 
when punctured; AL N. 


17 

















Gas orcs sense body heat. Whenever a 
living creature comes within 20 feet, the 
gas orc will drift slowly toward the crea 
ture. propelling itself with the millions of 
tiny cilia on its outer skin. If a gas orc suf- 
fers even one point of damage it explodes 
and all creatures within 10 feet receive 
ld4 +1 points of damage. plus they must 
save vs. poison. Characters who fail their 
saves are infected with gas orc spores. 
Thereafter the victim has 24 hours to get 
a cure disease spell cast upon hirn or he 
will die two days later and sprout 3d4 
more gas orcs. 

When the party enters, the orcs simply 
stand there staring at the adventurers. 
During the first round there is a 90% 
chance that the characters will mistake 
the gas orcs for real orcs. If the charac 
ters don't attack immediately, then the 
gas orcs' true nature becomes apparent 
as they drift toward the characters sev- 
eral inches above the floor, in the best 
balloon fashion. without moving their 
legs. Characters using just infravision 
cannot see the gas orcs. 

Once the characters have dealt with 
the gas orcs, they can examine the rest of 
the chamber. As stated. there are four 
aquariums on the table. each containing a 
creature captured by Zando and a name 
plate identifying it. In order, the crea 
tures are a normal gar, a normal crab, a 
normal crayfish. and a normal pike. 

With all the giant varieties of these 
creatures running about, people don't 
get to see the small ones anymore. (Inci- 
dentally, Zando is pulling a fast one on his 
customers. the crab isn't normal, it's just 
a baby giant crab, but that won't become 
apparent for several more years.) 

Area 12 


The path opens into another large ca- 
vem. Here the stream forks, flowing 
around a large moss-covered island, 
then comes together again to flow out 
the far side of the cavem. A fence of 
long steel spikes and rope surrounds 
the two forks of the stream and the is- 
land. A plaque by the fence reads, 
"Uniduck Island." 


The room is empty. For more informa 
tion on uniducks, see the Wandering 
Monster Encounters section (on page 
20 ). 

Area 13 


The tunnel descends into a large rec- 
tangular chamber. On either side of 
you are bleachers, cut into the natural 
stonework. all facing toward the far 
half of the room. There. well lit by 
more of the green fungus. is a swim- 
ming pool, its bottom sprinkled with 
silver coins. Above the pool is a 
wooden bridge, suspended beneath 
which are three hoops, several feet 
above the surface of the water. As you 
enter, three dolphins simuhaneously 
leap from the water, fly through the 
hoops, and fali back into the pool's 
cool, clear water. 


In the last chamber the characters en- 
countered Howard, the friendly eye of 
the shallows. Remember how Howard 
got all his goodness from his dolphin half. 
and his horrid appearance from his eye of 
the deep half? These dolpliins are just the 
reverse-these are killer dolphins. 

3 Killer Dolphins: AC 5; Move 30"; HI) 
2+2; hp 16, 14, 12; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; 
THACO 16; AL CE. 

These dolphins are highly intelligent, 
and they're also very hungry. When the 
characters enter the room, the dolphins 
pretend not to notice them. Instead the 
dolphins put on a show-they leap 
through the hoops, tread water on their 
back fins, summersault in the air, etc. 

After a few minutes one of the dolphins 
will pretend to suddenly see the party. 
When this happens the dolphins step up 
the pace of the show as if they are trying 
to impress the characters. The dolphins' 
ultimate objective is to coax one of the 
characters into the water. If a character 
does come near the water, one of the dol 
phins will swim by, chatter excitedly, and 
splash the character lightly, using its side 
flipper. As soon as a character enters the 
water, the dolphins attack mercilessly. 

Scattered about the bottom of the pool 


are 300 sp. These were placed here, 
once again, by Zando in an attempt to get 
the crowds to throw money. Zando still 
doesn't know that these are killer dol 
phins, although he is a little suspicious 
since three of his dolphin trainers have 
disappeared. 

Area 14 

This long. wide, natural corridor leads 
to Zando's main exhibit area. Ever as- 
tute, Zando has used the great length of 
the corridor to build suspense. Posted 
along the walls are a series of signs- 
"500 Feet to Terrible Monster of Gigan- 
tic Proportions," "400 Feet to Terrible 
Monster of Gigantic Proportions," etc., 
the last sign, just outside the curtain to 
area 15 reads, "0 Feet to Terrible Mon 
ster of Gigantic Proportions." While 
walking down the corridor, dwarves and 
gnomes have a 50% chance of noticing 
that it gently slopes downward. 

Area 15 


The chamber is circular in construc- 
tion. Dominating the center of the 
room is a 30-foot-diameter, conical- 
shaped, steel bar cage surrounded by 
a small moat. The door to the cage lies 
bent and twisted near the far wall, as if 
tossed there by whatever was once 
held within. On the floor of the cage 
lies the leg bone of some great beast, 
shattered on one end. The air in this 
chamber feels thick and smells of ani- 
mal fur. A smaU bronze plaque on the 
side of the cage reads, "Gigantic Mon 
ster of Incredible Proportions." 


This is Zando's main exhibit room. The 
main exhibit has obviously escaped. In 
faet, this was the creature that released 
all of the other creatures in the zoo. 

On the floor of the cage are several 
tufts of hair. A ranger who makes a suc- 
cessfiil Intelligence Check can identify 
the hair as that of a mammoth. Similarly, 
the bone in the cage is the leg bone of a 
mammoth. The bone is covered with 
teeth marks. 

In the center of the northem portion of 


18 











the wall is a wide tunnel leading north. An 
arrow sign, hung just inside the tunnel's 
entrance, reads, "Herbivore Exhibit 
This Way." 

Area 16 


The corridor ends abruptly in a bal- 
cony. Fifteen feet below is a large nat 
ural stone chamber. Reddish-purple 
stalagmites and stalactites cover the 
floor and ceiling, occasionally meeting 
to form huge, multi-colored columns. 
Flowing through the center of the 
chamber is a swift, dark stream. On 
the far side is a gigantic two-headed gi- 
ant. Scattered on the floor beside him 
are a variety of bones. 

Beyond the giant is a cage, within 
which sits a dejected blue-robed fig- 
ure. 

The air is heavy with the smell of 
buming flesh. 


This room was originally intended to be 
a natural habitat for dungeon herbivores, 
allowing them to roam free while watched 
by the paying public. Unfortunately for 
the herbivores. the cretin (sort of like an 
ettin but not as smart), moved here after 
escaping from the cage in area 15 and 
freeing the other monsters. Since then, 
all of the herbivores have been eaten as 
have all of the zoo personnel. Zando, the 
magician locked in the cage, is next on the 
menu. Incidentally, the two heads of the 
cretin are named Burt and Jimmy; like 
most giant heads. they speak with a cock 
ney accent. 

Cretin: AC 5; Move 12"; HD 8; hp 38; 
#AT 2; Dmg Idl2/ldl2 (each hånd holds 
a giant spiked club); THACO 12; SD Sur- 
prised only on a 1; AL CE. 

If the adventurers are very quiet, allow 
them to observe the cretin without alert- 
ing it. Of course, at your discretion, Cu- 
lum can always point and shout. "Look, a 
monster!" 

Burt and Jimmy are not very bright. In 
faet, just about any reasonable trick will 
work against them (getting the heads to 
argue with each other, throwing a rock in 
the comer to distract them, etc.). Unrea- 


sonable tricks may also work (convincing 
Burt and Jimmy to club each other to 
death, telling them that cretins are sup- 
posed to be vegetarians, daring them to 
swim underwater downstream as far as 
possible, etc.). 

Strapped to the cretin's hip are keys 
for the cage. Thieves attempting to 
sneak up on Burt and Jimmy have their 
percentage chance of success reduced by 
15% (two heads are better than one, as 
they say). 

Players who try to wait until Burt and 
Jimmy are asleep before acting will be 
sorely disappointed, as both heads never 
sleep at the same time. 

Some players may opt for the more di- 
rect hack-n-slash approach. If attacked, 
Burt and Jimmy become enraged, charg- 
ing at the nearest opponent and attacking 
him repeatedly until he is oatmeal. Burt 
and Jimmy can easily climb onto the bal- 
cony in one round. They won't stop at 
tacking until all perceived enemies have 
left the immediate area (or been tumed 
into oatmeal). 

If the cretin spots the characters while 
they're still on the balcony, then Burt and 
Jimmy simultaneously let out a blood- 
curdling yell, designed to scare off the ad 
venturers. (Normally Burt and Jimmy 
would attack but, having just eaten an en- 
tire herbivore habitat over the last two 
days, they're rather bloated.) 

Zando (4th-level magician): AC 10; 
Move 12"; MU 4; hp 12; MT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; THACO 20; ST 10 IN14 WS7 
CN11 DX13 CH8; AL CN. Spells: none 
memorized. Wears a small key on a silver 
chain around his neck. This is the master 
key to all of the locks on this level of the 
dungeon. 

Because of his hectic business Sched 
ule, Zando hasn't studied any spells for 
the last three weeks. Not ha ving any 
spells at his disposal, fearing that Culum 
failed, and knowing that he's next on Burt 
and Jimmy's list of appetizers. have all 
left Zando feeling rather depressed. 

When the adventurers arrive, Zando is 
sitting in the cage with is head hung low. 
At some point in the rescue, Culum whis- 
pers, "There's dear ol' dad" and points 
toward Zando. 


If the characters want, they can try to 
signal Zando by throwing a rock near the 
cage. If successful, and if Burt and Jimmy 
haven't been alerted, Zando will sud- 
denly become very animated, trying to 
come up with a plan for getting around 
Burt and Jimmy. In faet, he may become 
so animated that the characters fear dis- 
covery because of Zando's wiid arm ges 
tures. If the characters start to leave 
after signaling, Zando becomes very irri- 
tated. In faet, he becomes irritated to the 
point of yelling, "Don't leave me." (If 
nothing else, more prisoners mean more 
appetizers for Burt and Jimmy to select 
from, reasons Zando.) 

If Zando is rescued, Culum immedi- 
ately walks up to him. plants both feet in 
front of the magician, and demands, 
"That's 15 silver pieces you owe rac for 
reseuing you.'' 

Zando grumbles, reaches down inside 
his robe, pulis out 15 silver pieces, and 
counts them out, one at a time for Culum. 
"Now get outta my face, kid, you bother 
me." 

Needless to say, your players may be 
somewhat disgruntled by this tum of 
events, especially if several of their com- 
panions died during the adventure. 

Zando then turns to the adventurers 
and makes them an offer. If they'll help 
him get the zoo back into running order 
he'll give them 5% of the first year's 
gross. Hard-bargaining players might 
work Zando up to 20%, but he won't go 
any higher than that ("Hey, I gotta pro- 
tect my profit margin, right?") 

Getting the zoo back in running order 
mean s rounding up all the creatures run 
ning loose and putting them back in their 
cages unharmed. After that Zando has a 
secret room where, "These critters just 
appear out of thin air, from time to time." 

The room Zando refers to is area 18. 
The Random Monster Generator on the 
lowest level teleports defeetive monsters 
to that room at a rate of about one mon 
ster per week. 

If the adventurers agree to Zando's of 
fer. then Zando shows them the secret 
door leading to his private office (area 
17), takes them there, and has them sign 
numerous legal doeuments. 


19 










During the entire proceedings, play 
Zando like an overiy slick, used-car sales 
man. If you're doing it right, paladins and 
lawful good characters should fear for the 
pureness of their spirits. 

At the end of the one-year period each 
percentage point of profit is worth 25 gold 
pieces. For example, if the characters 
agreed to Zando's offer of 5% of the 
gross, they would receive 125 gold 
pieces to split amongst themselves. 

Area 17 


The winding tunnel ends in a small nat 
ural cavem. Stalagmites and stalacti- 
tes circle the perimeter of the room. 
but in the center all such obstructions 
have been cleared. Situated at one end 
of the clearing is a finely polished ma- 
hogany desk, behind which sits a blue 
plush chair. A set of bookshelves stand 
against the far wall and covering the 
floor is an exquisite silver-threaded 
rug. As you step across the rug, you 
hear the hollow sound of wooden 
planking beneath it. 


This is Zando's private office. 

The bookshelf contains numerous edi 
tions of various tax manuals, along with 
all of Zando's spell research material. 

The desk also contains files on the vari 
ous employees, as well as notes on the 
various creatures (what they eat, how 
much they eat, how to care for them, 
etc.). Characters who search the desk 
find a small secret compartment in the 
back of the top right-hand drawer. There, 
wrapped in soft cloth, is a 50-gp ruby with 
a continual light spell cast upon it. This is 
Zando's office light. 

The blue chair is extremely comfort- 
able. Characters who search the chair 
have 25% chance of finding the secret 
compartment beneath the seat. There, 
neatly stacked, are 350 gold pieces. 

The rug is of fine quality and was won 
by Zando in a card game several years 
ago. At the bazaar similar rugs seil for 
200 gold pieces. Beneath the rug is an 
even layer of pine boards. These were 
placed here by Zando to keep the rug off 


the floor so that it won't get damp and to 
cover up the deep hole. Unknown to 
Zando this hole leads to the next level of 
the dungeon. 

Area 18 

This is the room where defective mon 
sters are teleported. Fearful of escapes, 
Zando had a solid iron door installed to 
keep the creatures in. Zando keeps this 
gate locked at all times and wears the key 
around his neck. Once per day Zando 
drops by to see if there are any new arriv 
als. If the adventurers get past the lock 
and open the door, tell them it appears to 
be a normal empty room, except for one 
wall that shimmers grey, twinkling almost 
as if it was sprinkled with silver dust. 

This unusual wall is the portal that con- 
nects the Random Monster Generator 
with this level. Creatures flop through 
this wall at a rate of about one per week. 
For all practical purposes, the wall is solid 
to the characters (i.e., it is a one-way 
portal, monsters check in but they don't 
check out). 

Wandering Monster Encounters 

This table is included as an aid to the 
DM. Roil ld4 once per tum. On a 4, the 
party has encountered one of the wan 
dering monsters listed below. Roil again 
to see which monster is encountered. 
Note that there are a limited number of 
wandering monsters in this dungeon; 
once one of the monsters listed below has 
been slain or captured it cannot be en 
countered again. If the encounter die roli 
calls for a second encounter with the 
same monster, there is no encounter. 

1. One Gelatinous Disk (AC 8; 
Move 1/4"; HD 4; hp 14; MT 1; Dmg 
2d4; SA Paralyzation; THACO 20; AL N. 
Similar to a gelatinous cube in most re- 
spects, the gelatinous disk is much less 
feared because its unusual shape leaves it 
almost immobile. Thus while the gelati 
nous disk has 4 Hit Dice, it only attacks as 
a 1-1 Hit Die creature. There is nothing 
of interest within the body of this gelati 
nous disk. 


2. Four Little Guvs: AC 8; Move 9"; 
HD 1 + 1; hp 9,9,8,7; MT 1; Dmg ld8; 
THACO 18; AL CN. These are miniature 
giants (about five feet tall). In order of 
most hit points to least, there is Arghh 
the fire guy, Glacon the frost guy, Rocky 
the stone guy, and Jethro the hiil guy. 
Since they got smaller and became sub- 
ject to being eaten by bears and wolves 
and gelatinous disks, they've become 
pretty nice to most adventurers. In faet, 
these guys will do just about anything to 
get out of fighting. 

3. Four Uniducks: AC 7; Move 3"/ 
15"; HD 1-1; hp 4,4,2,1; MT 1; Dmg 
ld2; THACO 20; AL LG. Like unicoms, 
uniducks are loyal and true beasts, the 
very essence of all that is noble and good. 
However, unlike unicoms, uniducks 
make very poor steeds, as they are just 
knee-high, and tend to squash when sat 
upon. 

4. Six Goblins: AC 6; Move 6"; HD 
1-1; hp 7,7,4,4.3,2; MT 1; Dmg ld6 
(spiked club); THACO 20; AL LE. These 
really are normal goblins. They wan- 
dered onto this dungeon level two days 
ago and have been exploring it ever 
since. The leader of the goblins, Gunter, 
is an especially nasty fellow, he's always 
quick to commit his troops to a fight to 
the death. 



20 










level 2: it's my paRty an6 
'll Pie if i want to 



This adventure is designed for up to 
five characters of le vels 3-4. A variety of 
character dasses will help, but not much. 

DM Introduction 

This level of the castle is entirely occu- 
pied by orcs, ogres. goblins, and other 
evil types. They're all bored stiff and hate 
being stuck here because there's nothing 
to do. Sure, there's an occasional gang 
fight between the orcs and goblins. and 
once in a while there's a lost adventurer 
to slaughter, but most of the time it 's duli, 
duil. duli. Everyone dreams of finding an 
evil power to serve, a mighty demon or 
devil who'U take them away from their 
miserable existence and lead them on a 
glorious conquest of Greyhawk and the 
rest of the known world. 


Trouble is, nobody knows how to go 
about this, since there's not exactly a 
surplus of brain cells in these parts. Wy- 
perag, the bugbear chieftain, has trouble 
finding the pointy end of his sword. let 
alone a halfwav-decent demon lord. Gor- 
gie, the ogre leader, can't remember how 
to work a doorknob. The evil mage Mor- 
tykraken and his assistant Mudstone 
have come up with a few semi-interesting 
magical devices, but have zippo for plans 
to attract an evil master. 

Until recently, that is. A few days ago, 
while trying to decipher some of the big 
words in a volume of arcane lore, Morty- 
kraken got an idea. Since e very body likes 
a good party, why not throw a big get-to- 
know-you bash for the evil powers and in- 
vite them all to attend? They could 
introduce themselves to all the local dev- 


Greyhawk 
Dungeon 
Level 2 

["O-j Door 
f-GD-) Locked Door 
|-{gB-| Broken Door 
| [c~; | Trap Door (Celling) 

I B i Trap Door (Floor) 

1 \ , Broken Wall 
I &) [ Ptt 

1 X 1 Random Encounter 
Check 

Scale: 1 Square = 10 Feet 

I 

N 


ils and demons and impress them with 
how good they were at serving and grov- 
eling. And out of all the evil powers that 
were sure to show up, at least one of 
them would be impressed enough to take 
them on as followers. 

The plan was met with immediate en- 
thusiasm. Nobody was quite sure what 
kind of party to throw, but Mortykraken 
figured that even demons must like to 
eat, so they decided to make it a banquet. 
Also, nobody was quite sure how- to go 
about inviting the guests of honor, but 
Mortykraken came up with an idea for 
that, too (see room 26 for details). 

Unfortunately, the day before the 
party, Mortykraken brought in a giant 
frog which promptly ate him. Without the 
organizational talents of Mortykraken. 
meager though they were, the plans be- 


21 




















gan to (alter, until Wyperag and Gorgie 
rose to the occasion and sorted out as- 
signments as best they could. 

General Course of Play 

The adventure opens on the moming 
before the party. The residents are under 
the impression that special servants have 
been summoned to help out at the ban- 
quet. This may have been the intention, 
but nobody every got around to doing it. 
When the PCs show up. the residents wiil 
assume they're the expected servants 
and will treat them accordingiy. 

The Setting 

All the rooms and corridors in tilis level 
are made of stone. Torches are set in the 
walls at regular intervals to provide illu 
mination. The whole place is filthy and 
stinks of rotting garbage and orc dung. All 
of the doors are numbered and none of 
them are locked, except those at the en- 
tryway and room 24. 

Orcs, goblins, bugbears, and ogres are 
everywhere, pushing carts, hauling 
crates, and carrying out all the tasks nec- 
essary to prepare for the party. Their 
typical statistics are given below. 

' Orc: AC 6; MV 9": HD 1; hp 6; MT 1; 
Dmg ld8 (axe or s word); THACO19; AL 
LE. Carries 2d6 ep. 

Goblin: AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1-7 hp: hp 5; 
MT 1; Dmg ld6 (short sword or spear); 
THACO 20; AL LE. Carries 3d6 sp. 

Bugbear: AC 5: MV 9"; HD 3 +1; hp 
16; MT 1; Dmg 2d4 (sword); THACO 
16; AL CE. Carries 2d4 gp. 

Ogre: AC 5: MV 9"; HD 4 +1; hp 21; 
#AT 1; Dmg ldlO (two-handed sword); 
THACO 15; AL CE. Carries 2d4 x 10 gp. 

Additionally, there are a number of 
bugbear and ogre guards patrolling the 
corridors and stationed at various rooms. 
Here are their typical statistics. 

Bugbear guard: AC 4; MV 9"; HD 4; 
hp24; #AT 1; Dmg2d4 (sword); THACO 
15; SA +1 to damage: AL CE. Carries 
2d4 gp. 

Ogre guard: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 7; hp 
30; MT 1: Dmg 2d6 (two-handed 
sword); SA +1 to damage; THACO 13; 


AL CE. Carries 2d4 x 10 gp. 

Impress upon the PCs that these crea- 
tures are all over the place. If the PCs 
want to demolish a few, that's fine, but 
there are plenty of replacements. For 
game purposes, assume there are as 
many bugbears, orcs, ogres, goblins, and 
guards as you need. Use the above statis 
tics when running any of these creatures. 
but feel firee to vary the hit points, weap- 
ons, and treasure, within the guidelines 
given in the Monster Manual. 

Random Encounters 

Whenever a PC enters an area on the 
map marked with an X, roll ld8. On a roil 
of 1 or 2, there is a random encounter. 
Roll ldlO to determine which one, as fol- 
lows. 

1. Goblin Butchers (ld6): (same 
statistics as regular goblins) 

From around the nearest comer 
(choose randomly). a group of goblins 
dressed in white aprons and armed with 
meat cleavers (Dmg ld8) charge the 
PCs. The goblins believe the PCs would 
make a tasty dish to serve at the party 
and intend to butcher them on the spot. If 
more than half of the goblins are killed, 
the rest flee. 

2. Headless Mouse Horde (100): 

AC 10; MV 6"; HD 1-1; hp 1; Dmg 1; 
THACO 10; SA claws; AL N. 

From around the nearest comer 
(choose randomly), a horde of headless 
mice runs frantically toward the PCs. 
Each PC must make a Dexterity Check 
on ld20. Those who fail fail down and get 
swarmed by the mice. The mice only at- 
tack for one round, then they continue on 
their way. Every successful hit from a PC 
kills ldlO mice. 

Mudstone has been making mouse- 
head hors d'oeuvres for three days in 
room 25, but he is too lazy to dispose of 
the bodies. He uses a special animate 
dead spell to order the bodies to run to 
the swill pit (room 18) and dispose of 
themselves. 

3. Giant frog: AC 7; MV 3"; HD 3; hp 
22; MT 1; Dmg Id3/ld6/2d4; THACO 
16; SA surprise on 1-4, leap 18", tongue 
strikes at +4 to hit; AL N. 


This is the giant frog that escaped from 
room 11 (see Encounter Key for details). 
It attacks the PCs from around the near 
est comer (choose randomly). The frog 
is hungry and will eat as many PCs as it 
can. If the PCs flee, the frog pursues, but 
if the PCs duck into a room or elude it for 
three rounds, the frog loses interest and 
hops away. (If the PCs kill it and this en 
counter is rolied again, roll for another.) 

4. Baby Bugbear: (see room 2 for 
statistics) 

A baby bugbear is casually crawling 
down the corridor. This is the escaped 
baby from room 2 (see Encounter Key 
for details). If the PCs haven't been 
there, they probably won't attach any 
special significance to it. All other crea 
tures in the corridor will ignore the PCs' 
requests for help or information, and no 
one else will take the infant. The PCs can 
take it along if they like or let it crawl 
away, whichever they prefer. 

If the PCs have been to room 2, they 
should recognize this as the missing baby. 
They are still free to let it crawl away, but 
if they return it to room 2, Yekki (who will 
be back on duty) will thank them and re- 
ward them with mouse-head hors 
d'oeuvres. (If the PCs return the baby 
and this encounter is rolied again, roll for 
another.) 

5. Flesh Golem Butler: (see entry- 
way encounter in Encounter Key for sta 
tistics) 

The PCs see a flesh golem stumbling 
towards them, muttering, "Hors 
d'oeuvres?" over and over. Like the go 
lem they met in the entryway, this one 
carries a covered tray of mouse-head 
hors d'oeuvres. The golem misunder 
stood his orders and believes that all 
guests must take one, and he assumes 
the PCs are guests. 

If the PCs each take an hors d'oeuvres 
(they don't have to eat it), the golem con- 
tinues on his way. If they refuse, he gets 
angry and insists. He won't attack, but he 
follows the PCs relentlessly until they 
each take one of his treats. If they go into 
a room, he will be waiting outside. 

6. Frantic Orc: An orc breathlessly 
runs up to the party and says they've 
been ordered to a pårticular room. (Roll 


22 










Id20 to see which room; for instance, on 
a roil of 6, the orc is referring to room 6.) 
The orc doesn't know why they're 
wanted. but insists they'U all be killed if 
they don't go. Questioning him does no 
good. If the PCs try to hold him, the orc 
says he has to go. If they don't release 
him, the orc screams for help, attracting 
the attention of as many guards as it takes 
to convince the PCs to release him. 

In truth, the PCs aren't wanted any- 
where. Like so many here, the orc is 
hopelessly confused. If the PCs don't go 
to the room, nothing happens. If they do 
go, use the information in the Encounter 
Key and treat it as a normal encounter. 

7. Ogre Guards (2): Two ogre guards 
confront the PCs and order them to go to 
a particular room (choose as in random 
encounter 6). If the PCs resist, have as 
many additional guards arrive as needed 
to convince them to cooperate; unlike the 
previous encounter, the PCs have no 
choice but to go. 

The guards will accompany the PCs to 
the indicated room. If the door is closed, 
the guards wait until the PCs knock, then 
leave. Use the information in the En 
counter Key and treat it as a normal en 
counter. 

8. Garbage Collector: A goblin 
pushing a cart full of rotting vegetables, 
decaying meat, and other fetid garbage 
approaches the PCs. He demands they 
relieve him and take the stuff to the swill 
pit. If they refuse, he calls for guards. and 
enough show up to make sure the PCs do 
what the goblin asks. If the PCs don't 
know the location of the swill pit, the gob 
lin gives them directions. 

It only takes one PC to push the cart. 
Any time the cart tums a comer, the PC 
(or PCs) pushing it mast make a Dexter- 
ity Check on ld20. If a check fails, the 
cart toppies over and garbage spilis all 
over the floor. The guards in the area de 
mand that the PCs clean it up. If they 
refuse, the guards take them to the swill 
pit for punishment. (See the Disobedi- 
ence section below.) 

Any PCs who pick up the garbage must 
roil on ld6. On a roli of 1. the PC is at- 
tacked by rot grubs (apply flame or cast 
cure disease to avoid ld6 damage). On a 


roil of 2, the PC is attacked by green 
slime (must be scraped off or otherwise 
disposed of or the affected PC tums into 
green slime in four rounds; see the Mon 
ster Manual for details). These creatures 
are hidden in the garbage and cannot be 
spotted by ordinary means. 

If the garbage is delivered to the swill 
pit, the guards there accept it for disposal 
and send the PCs on their way. 

9. Dish Carrier: An orc scurries 
around a comer (choose randomly) and 
heads toward the PCs. He carries a tall 
stack of dishes that prevents him from 
seeing where he's going. The PCs must 
make Dexterity Checks on ld20 to avoid 
crashing into him. The first PC to fail his 
throw collides with him, sending dishes 
flying everywhere. The orc is furious. If 
the PC apologizes, the orc mutters to 
himself and tells the PCs to get lost. If the 
PC doesn't apologize, the orc yells for 
the nearest guards who will take the en- 
tire party to the swill pit for punishment. 
(See the Disobedience section below.) 

10. Magical Broom: An animated 
broom is whisking down the corridor to 
ward the PCs. It is sweeping up dust and 
debris. When it nears the PCs, it attacks 
them as if it were a 4 Hit Dice monster. It 
attacks with its blunt end twice per 
round. causing ld3 points of damage 
when it hits. It is AC 7 and has 18 hit 
points. If the PCs stand and fight, it will 
attack until destroyed. If they flee, it 
sweeps on. 

If the PCs destroy the broom and this 
encounter is rolied again, roil for another. 

Disobedience 

When punishment is called for, as many 
guards as necessary immediately show 
up to take the entire party to the swill pit. 
Unless otherwise specified, guards will 
take the PCs back to the scene of the 
scene of the crime after they've been 
punished, usually for another chance to 
complete their task. Don't roli for ran 
dom encounters on trips to and from the 
swill pit. (For details about the swill pit 
punishment, see room 18.) 

Note that killing orcs, goblins, and 
other residents isn't necessarily a pun- 


ishable crime. Squabbles of all kinds often 
result in a fatality or two, so nobody pays 
much attention to bodies lying around. If 
the PCs go on excessive and unwar- 
ranted killing sprees, however, the DM 
has the option of a swill pit trip to con 
vince the PCs to fighten up. 

Getting Started 

The PCs begin the adventure by drop 
ping through a trap door in the ceiling into 
the entryway. Since the PCs need all the 
time they can get to explore this level be- 
fore the party begins at midnight, tell 
them it is early moming when they ar 
rive. If drcumstances are such that the 
PCs arrive here at a later time of the day, 
have them wait in the entryway until 
moming to get a good rest. In any case, 
no amount of pounding or lock picking will 
open the north door of the entryway be- 
fore moming. 

As the PCs explore this level, it should 
dawn on them that something is sched- 
uled to happen at midnight. If they don't 
figure this out themselves, they have a 
couple of chances to leam the details in 
rooms 18 and 25. When midnight rolis 
around, go to the final encounter, Party 
Time. The only way out of this level is 
through the trap door in room 25. 

Encounter Key 

Entryway 


You're in a dark stone room where the 
air is cold and dry. The room is 20 feet 
square with a 10-foot high ceiling. A 
10' x 10' rusty iron door is set in the 
north wall. The door has no omamen- 
tation or visible locks of any kind. 

From the other side of the door 
come the sounds of heavy bolts and 
latches slowly unlocking. The door 
groans open. moving toward you. You 
can see the door is nearly three feet 
thick. 

Standing in the doorway is a seven- 
foot-tall man, ghostly pale, looking as 
if he has been stitched together from 
pieces of dead bodies. He wears a tat- 


23 





tered black waistcoat and carries a 
trav covered with an iron bowl. He 
speaks in a low monotone, "What-is- 
the-password?" 


The monster is a flesh golem, ordered 
to make periodic checks to see if any of 
the extra help has arrived. The golem 
was instructed to ask for a password, but 
nobody ever got around to thinking one 
up. The golem is actually asking the PCs 
if they know what it's supposed to be. 

Flesh golem: AC 9; MV 8"; HD 9; hp 
40; HAT 2; Dmg 2d8/2d8; THACO 12: 
SA 1% per melee round cumulative 
chance to go berserk: SD no harm from 
normal weapons, fire- and cold-based 
spells slow it by 50% for 2d6 melee 
round. other spells have no effect; AL N. 

The golem accepts any response from 
the PCs as the password. If they hesitate 
or try to talk to him, he repeats his ques- 
tion until he gets some kind of answer. 
The golem won't attack, but he will de- 
fend himself by kicking (Dmg 2d8). Get- 
ting past the golem does the PCs no 
good, as the next chamber of the entry 
way has a similar iron door that only the 
golem can open. 

If the PCs pacify the golem by giving 
him a password, he bows and takes the lid 
off his tray. He then offers the PCs one of 
his treats. sugar cookies frosted with 
whipped sour cream with a mouse head in 
the center. The golem will not let them by 
until they each take one. Whether they 
eat the treats is up to them, but anyone 
who does must roll a Constitution Check 
on ld20. Failure means a sick stomach 
and 1 point of damage. 

When the golem is satisfied, he leads 
them into the next chamber and closes 
the door behind them. He unlocks sev- 
eral bolts and latches on the next door 
and pulis it open wide. 


Ahead of you is a stone corridor, dank 
and stinking. lit by flickering torches 
imbedded in the walls. The corridor 
teems with scurrying creatures. Five 
goblins rush by carrying armloads of 
boxes and sacks. Several bugbears 


pass the other way carrying long 
wooden planks. They in tum pass two 
orcs pushing a cart overloaded with 
meat scraps and other garbage. Two 
fierce-looking ogres armed with large 
swords stalk by. They all glance in 
your direction, but none of them 
shows much interest in your group. 


The golem ushers the PCs inside, then 
pulis the door closed behind them, lock- 
ing it. With the entryway door secured 
behind them, the PCs can't get back the 
way they came in; there are always 
enough guards around to make sure they 
don't try. 

Note to the DM: Make it clear to the 
PCs that all of these evil creatures see 
them standing in the doorway but basi- 
cally ignore them. This should puzzle the 
PCs, as these creatures normally would 
treat them as enemies. What the PCs 
don't know is that the creatures assume 
the PCs are the expected extra help. 

Unless directed otherwise in the En- 
counter Key or by a random encounter. 
the creatures ignore the PCs and go on 
about their business. If the PCs question 
or speak to any of these creatures, the 
reaction will always be a gruff "Mind your 
own business! " or "Get back to work! " If 
the PCs persist, the creatures will run or 
fight back, whichever the DM feels is 
most appropriate. Killing the creatures 
won't generate any particular interest 
from other passing creatures. The DM 
should assume he has an unlimited num- 
ber of creatures to fill the corridors and 
use as he pleases. 

Room 1-Meeting Room 


This room appears to be the site of a 
recent battie. It is filled with over- 
tumed tables and braken chairs. Pa- 
pers and broken dishes litter the Door. 
A goblin with a knife in his back is 
slumped over one of the chairs. Three 
dead orcs are piled in a comer. 


This is the room where the creatures 
had their final organizational meeting last 


night, supervised by Gorgie and Wy- 
perag. A few fights broke out. resulting in 
these dead bodies. 

The scraps of paper contain only mean- 
ingless scribbles. If the PCs search the 
bodies, they come up with 24 ep and 10 
sp. 

Room 2-The Nursery 


A huge bugbear female is standing in 
the doorway, looking up and down the 
corridors. She shouts at you. "Get 
over here! Now!" Two large male 
bugbears emerge from the room and 
stand beside her. pointing their 
swords in your direction. 


The males are bugbear guards. the fe 
male is named Yekki (same statistics as a 
bugbear guard). If the PCs don't come as 
asked or if they attack, Yekki yells for 
help. and enough guards instantly appear 
to make sure the PCs comply. 

This room is a bugbear nursery, and 
Yekki is the nanny who's been waiting im- 
patiently for someone to show up to re- 
lieve her from caring for the obnoxious 
tots. There are nine bugbear infants 
crawling all over the place, some crying 
hysterically, some playing with their 
toes. some whacking each other with 
stuffed bugbear dolis. Ten empty wooden 
crates line the walls. 

Yekki and the guards usher the PCs 
into the room and close the door. Yekki 
says she has business elsewhere and or- 
ders the PCs to take care of the babies. 
She says the babies must be diapered, 
fed, and tied into their cribs. Since no 
body wants this miserable job, Yekki as- 
sumes that whatever the PCs tell her is 
an excuse to get out of it. so she ignores 
anything they say. If the PCs resist. Yekki 
and the guards threaten them. calling for 
more guards if necessary to haul them to 
the swill pit (see room 18 for details). If 
swill pit punishment is necessary. the 
PCs will be retumed here to do what 
Yekki wants. 

Assuming the PCs agree to cooperate, 
Yekki gives them an armload of diapers, 
baby bottles filled with weasel milk, and 


24 














strands of heavy rope. She offers no fur- 
ther instructions before leaving. The 
guards stay behind to keep an eye on the 
PCs, ready to summon heip if the PCs re- 
quire punishment for disobedience. 

9 Baby bugbears: AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1; 
hp 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1 (bite); THACO 19; 
AL CE. 

The babies are used to a very spedfic 
routine. If the PCs attempt to feed or dia 
per them before tving them into their cribs, 
the babies attack; they won't do much 
damage, but they refuse to eat and will rip 
off their diapers. If the PCs wise up and tie 
them into their cribs first, the babies coo 
contentedly while the PCs put on their dia 
pers and give them their bottles. When the 
babies are fed, diapered, and tied, the 
guards tell the PCs they are free to go. 

Observant PCs will notice that there 
are 10 cribs but only nine babies. If 
asked, the guards shrug, saying tliey 
have no idea what happened to the other 
one. (Earlier the baby crawled away un- 
noticed. For details, see random en- 
counter 4. The only way the PCs can 
recover the baby is by discovering it 
through a random encounter.) 

If the PCs return a second time by choice 
or because of a random encounter, and the 
baby has not yet been found, Yekki tells 
them they better bring back the baby or 
they will pay for it later. If the baby has been 
retumed, Yekki tells them to go away be 
cause the babies are sleeping. (See the final 
encounter. Party Time, to see what hap 
pens to the PCs if they don't recover the 
missing baby by midnight.) 

Room 3-Barracks 

This room used to be a barracks for 
some of the orcs, but a troil wandered in, 
killed all the orcs, and took it over for 
himself. He is very nasty and has no in- 
terest in the plans for the party or any- 
thing else that goes on in this level. 
Except for an occasional foray in search 
of food, he never leaves his room. 

Troll: AC 4: MV 12"; HD 6 + 6; hp 48; 
MT 3; Dmg ld4 +4/ld4 +4/2d6; 
THACO 13; SA can fight three oppo 
nents at once; SD regeneration; AL CE. 

The troll is fed up with all the commo- 


tion connected with the party prepara- 
tions. If the PCs knock on his door or 
open it, the troll jumps out and attacks 
them in the corridor. The troll will fight to 
the death, but if the PCs flee, he only 
chases them for 30 feet before retuming 
to the privacy of his room. 

If the PCs defeat the troll and search 
his room. they find a cloth sack under a 
garbage heap in the comer containing 900 
gp, a black opal worth 1,000 gp, and a 
clay jug containing two doses of potion of 
sweet water. 

Room 4-Barracks 

These are the barracks for the bug 
bears. Most of them are occupied else- 
where, but 12 of them are here now, 
relaxing after a hard night's work. 

The exhausted bugbears ignore any 
calls from the outside or knocks on their 
door. If the PCs enter, the bugbears an- 
grily stare at them, hånds on their weap- 
ons, refusing conversation. If the PCs 
persist, the bugbears attack, fighting to 
the death or until the PCs leave. 

If the PCs search the room, they find 
little here other than dozens of straw 
sleeping mats and a few wooden chests 
containing filthy bugbear clothing and 
dirty eating utensils. Hidden among this 
junk are 500 ep, 40 gp, and an axe +1. 

Room 5-Closet 


This is a dark closet containing rows of 
wooden shelves filled with towels, 
bedding, and rags. Piles of dirty laun- 
dry are stacked in the back. Aprons, 
smocks, and similar garments in all 
sizes hang on hooks along the wall. 


The PCs are free to outfit themselves 
in work clothes if they think it'U help them 
fool the creatures, but it isn't necessary, 
since the creatures are fooled already. 

Room 6-Private Quarters 

This is the private quarters of Wy- 
perag, the bugbear chieftain. The room is 
empty, as Wyperag is presently arguing 
with Gorgie in room 15, 


A black silk robe has been carefiilly laid 
out across a large straw sleeping mat. A 
chest at the foot of the mat contains Wy- 
perag's regular clothes, along with a 
leather pouch containing 10 sp and eight 
gp. An ink pot, a feather pen, and a parch- 
ment are on a wooden desk in the comer. 
The parchment contains many boxes and 
check marks; "ME" is written in large 
letters across the top. Any PC succeed- 
ing in an Intelligence Check on ld20 rec- 
ognizes this as a crude seating chart with 
"ME" in a position of honor. 

Room 7-Constxuction Room 


From behind this door come the 
sounds of hammering, sawing, and 
other construction activity. There's 
much shouting as the workers strain 
to be heard above the racket. 


There are 20 bugbears and 18 goblins 
doing carpentry work in here; the east 
wall connecting with room 9 has been 
broken down to give the workers more 
space. The work is being supervised by 
Rampit, a bugbear guard. Rampit is in a 
bad mood because he has been given too 
many workers to supervise by himself. 

No amount of pounding on the door by 
the PCs can be heard inside. If they open 
the door, an exasperated Rampit demands 
to know what they want. Rampit makes it 
clear that he doesn't need any more help 
and tells them to go away. If the PCs are cu- 
rious about what's going on inside, they 
need to convince Rampit why he should let 
them in. Rampit doesn't have time to ar- 
gue, and he'll let them in if they come up 
with any reasonable excuse. 

The goblins and bugbears ignore the 
PCs as they go on with their work. Most 
of them are making tables and chairs of 
various sizes. One chair under construc 
tion has legs that are about 30 feet long. 
(This is for Wyperag; the workers don't 
know what it's for, they've just been or- 
dered to make it.) In one comer is a large 
burlap bag, tightly bound with thick rope. 
Something is moving inside. The work 
ers don't know what this is, either, but 
they tell the PCs to leave it alone. (It con- 












There are 12 ogres and 40 orcs work- 
ing here; the east wall connecting with 
room 10 has been broken down to give 
the workers more space. The work is be- 
ing supervised by Serud, an ogre guard. 
Unlike his counterpart across tlie corri- 
dor, Serud welcomes all tlie help he can 
get because his workers spend too mueh 
time fighting. 

Since Serud is hoping more help will ar 
rive. he's at the door immediately if the 
PCs knæk or peek in. He demands they 
enter. If they resist, Serud summons 
enough guards to see that they do. 

Once inside, the PCs see construction 
work similar to that going on in room 7. 
There's no huge burlap bag, but there is 
another 30-foot chair being built. (Gorgie 
has the same idea as Wyperag.) Unlike 
the other work room, there is a lot of 


squabbling. The orcs slap at each other, 
toss hammers across the room. and con- 
stantly insult each other, mueh to the 
amusement of the ogres. 

The PCs are ordered into a comer to 
pound nails into boards with a group of 
eight orcs. (Resistance is håndled in the 
usual manner.) No sooner do the PCs 
start work than the orcs begin to insult 
them and flick nails at them. Regardless 
of the PCs' response, the orcs attack 
them with their hammers (Dmg ld8). As 
the fight begins, the rest of the workers 
stop what they're doing and rush to form 
a tight circle around the PCs and orcs, 
forring them to fight to the death. 

Assuming the PCs are victorious, the 
circle breaks up and everyone goes back 
to work. Serub tells the PCs to get out- 
he doesn't need any more trouble- 


tains a lurker above which will later be 
made into a party decoration. If the PCs 
are stupid enough to let it out, it attacks 
everyone in sight. Its statistics are given 
in the final encounter, Party Tune.) 

If the PCs linger too long, Rampit orders 
them to leave. If the PCs resist or start a 
fight, Rampit yells for guards who instantly 
show up in sufficient number to take the 
PCs to the swill pit for punishment. 


Room 8-Construction Room 


From behind this door come the 
sounds of hammering, sawing, and 
other construction activity. Sounds of 
shouting are mixed with loud banging 
and screaming. 


26 
















makers. (If the PCs return as a result of a 
random encounter or for any other rea- 
son. Serud refuses to let them in, calling 
for the guards if necessary.) 

Room 9-Construction Room 

The west wall of this room has been 
tom down to give the workers in room 7 
more space. Treat an encounter here the 
same as for room 7. 

Room 10-Construction Room 

The west wall of this room has been 
tom down the same as in room 9. Treat 
an encounter here the same as for room 
8 . 

Room 11-Broken Door 


The door to this room has been com- 
pletely shattered. Wood splinters are 
scattered on the floor as if something 
burst through the room. 


This is the room where a giant frog was 
kept. It was the intention of some goblin 
chefs to use the frog in a special dish for 
the banquet, but the frog ate the goblins 
and broke down the door. Unless the PCs 
have already found it and killed it (see 
random encounter 3), the frog is hopping 
through the corridors looking for more 
food. 

The room is empty, except for some 
tom ropes and a scribbied parchment. 
Any PC succeeding in an Intelligence 
Check on ld20 recognizes the scribblings 
as a recipe for frog's legs. 

Room 12-Storage 


This is a storage room containing 
shelves stacked with iron plates, 
wooden cups, and eating utensils 
carved from bone. There are a few 
covered wooden barreis along one 
wall. In the back of the room is a large 
crystal fountain nearly 10 feet in diam 
eter. The fountain is filled with a 
golden liquid that gives off a greenish 
tinge. 


The liquid in the fountain is actually a 
transformed varrdig. The varrdig took 
great pains to assume this shape and 
hopes to impress the evil powers at to- 
night's banquet. 

Varrdig: AC 5; MV 6" //18"; HD 6 +6; 
hp 45; #AT 2; Dmg Id4/ld4 (4d4); 
THACO 13; SA water jets; SD +1 or 
better weapon to hit. immune to water- 
based spells; AL NE. 

If the PCs disturb the liquid or the foun 
tain in any way, the varrdig instantly re 
sumes its actual form and attacks with its 
water jets until dead or until the PCs 
leave the room. 

There is nothing here of interest. The 
barreis contain goat tripe, glazed ticks, 
and other delicacies. 

Room 13-Centerpiece Room 


An ogre guard is standing in the door- 
way, looking up and down the corri 
dors. Beside him is a pile of 
coconut-sized purpie globes and an- 
other pile of weeds. He shouts at you. 
"Hurry up! We haven't got all day! 
Where've you been?" 


The ogre guard is named Hock. About 
an hour ago, he sent another ogre to find 
somebody to move the globes and weeds 
into room 13. (The ogres won't do it- 
that's what servants are for.) Hock as- 
sumes that's what the PCs are here for, 
and he won't listen to any excuses. If the 
PCs won't do as he says, he summons 
enough guards to convince them. 

Hock wants the PCs to pick up this 
stuff and put it on the tables inside for the 
workers to process. There are 12 globes 
and six armfuls of weeds. The PCs can di 
vide the chores among themselves any 
way they piease, but Hock insists they do 
it now; there's no time to look for a cart 
or any other carrying device. 

The globes are actually retch plant 
fruit. Regardless of how they are trans 
ported, each globe has a 10% chance of 
bursting. If a globe bursts, it splashes 
nauseating fluid over a five-foot-radius 
area (25% chance for contact at five to 
nine feet away). Those splashed will 


vomit and retch for the next three rounds 
and will be at 50% normal strength for the 
next six hours. If the PCs don't clean up 
any messes, Hock summons guards to 
take them to the s will pit. 

The weeds are strangle weeds. There 
is a 25% chance that a given armload con- 
tains one still-living frond. Because the 
frond has been out of the water for some 
time, it has enough strength for only one 
attack. The frond grabs the nearest PC 
for ld6 points of damage, then expires 
from the effort. Hock finds this quite 
amusing. 

Inside, eight ogres are seated around a 
long table, putting toge ther centerpieces 
for tonight's banquet. The centerpieces 
consist of a pile of strangle weeks with a 
retch fruit carefully placed in the center. 
If the ogres see any sign of movement 
among the strangle weeds, they beat the 
weeds savagely with clubs. 

When the PCs finish their job, they are 
sent on their way. If a random encounter 
brings them back later, Hock tells them 
they aren't needed and sends them away. 

Room 14-Dessert Room 

Six female bugbears are seated at a ta 
ble in the center of this room facing the 
door. Next to the table is a large tank 
filled with floating eyes. The bugbears re- 
move the eyes with tongs, place them on 
the table, then use spatulas to completely 
cover the eyes with whipped cream. 

If the PCs knock on the door. one of the 
bugbears sweetly calls out, "Come on in! 
Door's open!" If they like, the PCs may 
open the door without knocking first. 

If the PCs open the door, find out spe- 
cifically which ones are looking inside. 
There is no way for these PCs to avoid 
gazing into at least one of the floating 
eyes. These PCs must make saving 
throws vs. paralyzation or become hyp- 
notized and remain stationary for 2d4 
rounds. 

20 Floating eyes: AC 9; MV 30"; HD 
1-4 hit points; #AT nil; Dmg nil; SD hyp- 
notism ; AL N. 

The bugbear females weren't expect- 
ing anyone as ugly as the PCs. When they 
see them. one of the bugbears shrieks at 


27 












the top of her iungs. Two bugbear guards 
instantly show up and fight to the death. 
ParaJyzed PCs can do nothing until the ef- 
fects wear o ff. The female bugbears do 
nothing but huddie inside the room. 

Assummg the PCs win the fight, the fe 
male bugbears demand they leave. If the 
PCs hesitate, the females scream for 
guards to take them to the swill pit. (Af- 
ter punishment, the PCs will not be re- 
tumed to the scene of the crime, but 
instead will be released in the corridor 
outside the swill pit.) 

There is nothing in the room of interest 
to the PCs. If they return later as a result 
of a random encounter or for some other 
reason, the females cry for guards as 
soon as they see the PCs. If the PCs 
don't take off, the guards show up for an- 
other swill pit trip. 

Room 15-Private Quarters 


Two creatures are arguing loudly in 
side this room. One sounds like an 
ogre, the other a bugbear. 


If the PCs listen at the door, they hear 
that the creatures are arguing about seat- 
ing arrangements. "All the good ideas 
was mine! So I get to sit in front!" "Orc 
dung! I'm gonna sit in front!" 

The creatures are Wyperag and Gor- 
gie. They have spent most of the day ar 
guing about the party. Each wants to 
make sure he's the one who makes the 
best impression. They've both ordered 
special thrones built, now they're argu 
ing where they'll put them. 

Wyperag (bugbear chief): AC 3; MV 
9"; HD 4; hp 30; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 
(sword); THACO 15 +2 to damage; AL 
CE. Carries eight gp. 

Gorgie (ogre chief): AC 4; MV 9"; HD 
7; hp 35; #AT 1; Dmg 2d6 (two-handed 
sword); THACO 13; SA +2 to damage; 
AL CE. Carries 50 gp. 

Wyperag and Gorgie will not tolerate 
interruptions while they hash out these 
important decisions. Therefore. if the 
PCs open the door or knock, Wyperag 
and Gorgie scream for guards who in 
stantly descend on the PCs. "Haul them 


to the swill pit" commands Wyperag, and 
off they go. (The PCs are released in the 
corridor outside the swill pit when their 
punishment is complete.) 

Room 16-Barracks 

This is the barracks for the ogres. Four 
of them are here now, resting. 

The ogres hate to be disturbed. If the 
PCs knock or open the door, two of the 
ogres angrily rush to the doorway to see 
who's bothering them. The ogres con- 
sider anyone other than a guard or a fel- 
low ogre to be fair game, so they attack 
the PCs. As long as the PCs stay and 
fight, the ogres continue their attack. If 
things go badJy for the ogres, they are 
joined by their two companions. If the 
PCs flee, the ogres let them go. 

If the PCs kill all four ogres, they can 
search the room to find an iron chest con- 
taining 300 sp, 350 gp, five emeralds 
(1,200 gp each). and a ring of shooting 
stars. 

Room 17-Latrine 

As the stomach-wrenching stench 
clearly indicates, this room is used for a 
latrine. Waste products from the latrine 
run through grates on the floor and are 
collected in a large pipe that empties into 
the swill pit. 

Room 18-Swill Pit 

The swill pit always has two ogre 
guards stationed outside. If the PCs 
come here on their own, the guards send 
them away. 

The room has a 15-foot-diameter pit 
centered in the floor. about 30 feet deep 
with an iron grid lining the bottom. About 
five feet from Lhe top are two large pipes 
opening into the pit. One pipe leads from 
the latrine, the other from the kitchen. 
When a guard pulis a chain near the door 
way, both pipes open and spill the last 
hour's worth of sewage and garbage into 
the pit, where it eventually seeps 
through the grid in the bottom and into a 
bottomless cavem. 

When the PCs are brought here for 
punishment, they are tossed in the pit. 


taking ld6 points of damage each when 
they hit the layer of sludge on the bottom. 
The guard then pulis the release chain, 
and the PCs are drenched in a torrent of 
disgusting muck from the kitchen and la 
trine. There is always enough muck per 
torrent to fill the pit to a depth of four to 
five feet. 

After the muck is released, each PC in 
the pit must make a Constitution Check 
on ld20. Those who fail take ld6 + 3 
points of damage. Those who succeed 
take ld4 + 2 points of damage. The dam 
age represents injuries from heavy 
chunks of debris and general nausea. 

At the end of the punishment, the 
guards lower ropes into the pit and haul 
out the offenders. The walls are too slimy 
to climb, and the watchful guards stand 
ready to summon help if necessary to 
thwart any serious escape attempts. 

When the PCs are hauled out, they are 
doused with a bucket of water. Guards 
then escort them back to the scene of 
their crime, unless otherwise specified in 
the Encounter Key. 

If the PCs are brought to the pit a sec- 
ond time for punishment, they find an orc 
named Kurd in the bottom waiting to be 
punished along with them. Whether the 
PCs ask or not, Kurd mumbles about be- 
ing treated unfairly by someone name 
Garcan (see room 19). "How am I sup- 
posed to know how much time's left? Do I 
look like a clock?" 

The PCs have about 15 minutes to 
question Kurd while the guards wait for 
the pipes to fill up with muck. Since Kurd 
is angry, he'll talk freely with the PCs if 
they ask the right questions. Kurd was 
assigned to pluck sea gulis in the kitchen 
and was sent here for plucking too slowly. 
He knows everybody is frantically getting 
ready for a big party tonight at midnight. 
Demons and other evil powers are in- 
vited, and if they're impressed, they'U 
lead the locals on a grand conquest of 
Greyhawk and the rest of the world. 
Kurd is fuzzy on the details, but knows 
that Mortykraken, the mage, thought it 
all up before he died. 

When everyone is hauled up after the 
punishment. Kurd is escorted back to the 
kitchen while other guards escort the 


28 






PCs to wherever they're supposed to be. 
This is the only opportunity the PCs have 
to meet Kurd; if they make it to the 
kitchen, Kurd has already been sent else- 
where. Treat subsequent trips to the 
swill pit as regular punishment routines. 

Room 19-Kitchen 


The deiicious aroma of roasting meat 
drifts from behind this door, mixed 
with some definitely less appetizing 
odors that are difficult to identify. 


If the PCs knock or open the door, an 
imposing bugbear wearing a greasy apron 
and holding a large iron spoon immedi- 
ately appears and looks at them with dis- 
gust. "Don't stand there like idiots," he 
says. "There's still a lot of work to do!" If 
the PCs resist, the bugbear hollers for 
nearby corridor guards who make sure 
they go inside. 

The bugbear is named Garcan (same 
statistics as a bugbear guard, spoon does 
ld6 points of damage). He is in charge of 
this kitchen and assumes the PCs have 
been sent to help. Attempts at conversa- 
tion are ignored. If a PC resists any of 
Garcan's orders or starts a fight, Garcan 
summons guards to take him to the swill 
pit, after which he will be retumed here 
to pick up where he left o ff. 

The kitchen is a flurry of activity. Along 
the west wall, eight bugbears remove 
dead sea guils from a large pile, chop off 
their heads, pluck their feathers, and im- 
pale them on spits to roast over a large 
fire pit. Six goblins serub pans and dishes 
in a long sink that covers half of the east 
wall. Seven more goblins stir sizzling 
pans and boiling pots on three iron stoves 
along the south wall, while five bugbears 
work at a counter on the west wall, 
kneading black dough and chopping vege- 
tables. Four bugbear guards circulate 
throughout the room to make sure every- 
one keeps busy. 

Garcan selects two PCs (choose ran- 
domly) and sends the rest to wash 
dishes. He takes the chosen PCs to the 
stoves. "I want you to taste this," he 
says. "Give me your honest opinion." He 


offers the PCs a spoonfuJ of thin gray 
soup with black lumps. "Cream of leech," 
he says. "Eat it!" If a PC resists, Garcan 
whacks him with the spoon; further re- 
sistance is met with the usual threats of 
the swill pit. The soup tastes as good as it 
sounds; a failed Constitution Check on 
1 d20 results in ld4 points of damage from 
nausea. Garcan repeats his request with 
the other selected PC, this time offering 
a forkful of steamed beetle and goat 
cheese casserole. Same threats, same 
damage on a failed Constitution Check. 
He asks the PCs how the dishes tasted; if 
the PCs aren't enthusiastic, Garcan 
forces them to eat another sample. 

After the dishes are sampled, Garcan 
announces that the time has come to pre- 
pare the main course. He asks for volun- 
teers to be the butehers. Of course, 
there aren't any, so he selects the PCs 
and gives them each a meat cleaver (Dmg 
ld8). He orders the guards to take them 
to the butehering room (see room 22 for 
details). If the PCs put up a fight, enough 
guards show up to make sure they com- 
ply. 

When the PCs finish their business in 
room 22, the guards bring them back to 
the kitchen where Garcan thanks them 
and sends them on their way. If the PCs 
return to the kitchen because of a random 
encounter or for any other reason, Gar 
can will force one of them (choose ran- 
domly) to sample his scalloped scum 
creeper (same threats and damage as 
with the other recipes), then sends them 
on their way, saying he has no further use 
for them. 

Room 20-Barracks 

This large room is the barracks for the 
goblins. It is empty now, as the goblins 
are all occupied elsewhere. 

The room is filled with sleeping mats, 
assorted goblin debris, and several 
wooden chests containing their personal 
items. If the PCs rummage through the 
chests, they only tum up 22 cp and a 
chunk of rock crystal (value of 70 gp). 
However, in the northwest comer of the 
room is a pair of bone dice and a pile of 
coins totalling 150 cp, 110 sp, and 80 gp. 


The coins were left behind when the gob 
lins were abruptly ordered to work. 

Room 21-Barracks 


The sound of deep snoring comes 
from behind this door. 


This room is the orc barracks. Only 
nine are here now. They were ordered to 
clean up their filthy quarters, but they're 
sleeping instead. 

The ores have stacked a tower of metal 
cups behind the door. If the PCs knock, 
there is no response, but if they open the 
door even a crack, the cups fali over and 
wake up the ores. The ores leap out of 
bed and pretend to be cleaning, certain 
the PCs have been sent to check on 
them. 

The ores are fearful and cooperative, 
although they have no information. The 
PCs may freely inspect the barracks 
while the ores pretend to clean. The con- 
tents are similar to those in room 21. If 
they search the place, the PCs tum up a 
box containing 10 pink pearls (200 gp 
each), 50 gp, a flask containing two doses 
of podon of healing, and another flask 
containing one dose of podon of clairaudi- 
ence. The ores are too intimidated to 
stop the PCs from taking their treasure. 
If the PCs go along with the charade, the 
ores won't attack, although they defend 
themselves if necessary. 

Room 22-Butehering Room 


Vigorous scratching and clawing can 
be heard from behind this door. 


The room is empty except for a carrion 
crawler and the remains of a large burlap 
bag. The carrion crawler is intended as 
the main course for tonight's banquet, 
but so far nobody has gotten around to 
killing it. 

Carrion crawler: AC 3/7; MV 12"; HD 
3 + 1; hp 18; #AT 8; Dmg paralysis; 
THACO 16; AL N. 

If the PCs have been brought here 
from the kitchen, the guards throw them 
in, tell them to kil! the crawler, and slam 









the door shut. The guards won't let them 
out until the battie is finished. If the PCs 
succeed in killing the carrion crawler, the 
guards take them back to the kitchen, 
leaving the body for someone else to 
process. 

If the PCs go to this room before they 
go to the kitchen, they are under no pres 
sure to fight the carrion crawier, although 
they may if they wish. If they kill it and 
are brought here tater by the kitchen 
guards, the guards return them to the 
kitchen after they see the crawler's body. 

The carrion crawler fights viciously 
with its tentacles. It intends to paralyze 
all its attackers (saving throw vs. paraly- 
zation when hit to avoid effects), then eat 
them at its leisure. 

Room 23-Freezer 


This 20-foot-wide door is made of 
iron. Its surface is cold. The door is 
unlocked. 


In spite of its size, two PCs of average 
or higher Strength can pull it open. If they 
do, they are hit with a biast of cold air. 

This room is used for a freezer. Frost 
covere the walls. and heavy slabs of fro- 
zen meat hang on hooks from the ceiling. 
In the back of the room is a block of ice 20 
feet across and 15 feet high. The block is 
completely covered with a black doth. A 
large white toad sits in the center of the 
room. facing the door. 

Ice toad: AC 4: MV 9"; HD 5; hp 25; 
#AT 1; Dmg 3d4; THACO 15; SA radi- 
ates cold; AL N. 

The ice toad keeps the freezer cold and 
also protects the block. If the PCs come 
in. the ice toad attacks and continues to 
attack as long as PCs remain in the room. 
Because a lot of its power is used to keep 
the room cold, creatures within 1" suffer 
only 2d6 points of damage instead of the 
usual 3d6. 

If the PCs kill the toad or otherwise 
manage to get past it, they can uncover 
the block. It is a solid ice block containing 
a frozen ceratosaur. The ceratosaur is to 
be a special offering at the banquet. 

Note to the DM: Since the ceratosaur 


is needed for the banquet. have a squad of 
guards show up to chase the PCs out of 
the freezer if they attempt to thaw it out. 

Room 24-Banquet Room 


The entrance to this room is a 20' x 20' 
iron door. securely locked with a num- 
ber of heavy bolts and latches. Two 
ogre guards stand at attention on each 
side of the door. 


This is where the party will be held to- 
night. If the PC linger in the area, the 
guards angrily tell them to go away and 
come back at midnight. If necessary, the 
guards summon help to chase them away. 

Note to the DM: Although a few guards 
are occasionally allowed through the door 
to help set up for the party, do your best 
to keep the PCs out until you're ready for 
the final encounter, Party Time. (If the 
PCs miss the party, the adventure will be 
a lot less fun.) If the PCs do manage to 
sneak in (say, by tuming invisible and fol- 
lowing in an ogre delivery boy), tell them 
that all they see is a few ogres and bug- 
beare setting up tables and chairs. A 
stack of chairs covers the trap door so the 
PCs don't see it. 

Room 25-Private Quarters 


As you approach this door, a friendly 
voice calls from inside the room. 
"Come on in! I know you're out 
there!" 


This is where Mudstone the magician 
lives. His ESP informed him the PCs 
were in the corridor. Since nobody ever 
visits him, he is eager for company. 

Mudstone (9th-level magic-user): AC 
7; MV 12"; hp 20; MT 1; Dmg ld4 (dag 
ger); THACO 19: St 7, In 10, Wi 7. Dx 6, 
Co 9, Ch 6: AL LE. 

Spells: 

lst level: dancing ligbts (x 3), light 
2d level: ESP (x 3) 

3d level: feign death (x 3) 

4th level: charm monster, plant growth 
5th level: animate dead 


Mudstone was the assistant to the late 
Mortykraken. He is middle-aged and has 
a pot belly and long greasy hair. He wears 
a wrinkled purpie robe that hasn't been 
washed in months. He spends most of his 
time sulking in his room. 

The room is sparsely fumished with a 
table, two sagging beds, two dusty 
desks, and shelves of seldom-used 
books. In the northwest comer is an 
enormous pile of dead mice. A flesh go 
lem (see Entryway encounter for statis- 
tics) sits beside the pile, cutting off 
mouse-heads to make sugar cookie and 
sour cream hore d'oeuvres. When the 
mouse bodies pile up, Mudstone uses his 
special ammate dead spell to send them 
to the swill pit. 

If the PCs enter. the smiling Mudstone 
greets them and seats them around the 
table. He eagerly asks them how the 
party preparations are coming along, 
sighing that he wishes he had more to do 
than prepare hors d'oeuvres. If the PCs 
ask the right questions. Mudstone tells 
them whatever they want to know: the 
purpose of the party, what happened to 
Mortykraken, what's supposed to hap 
pen at midnight. He doesn't know a way 
out of this level and also refuses to leave 
his room. At some point, he'll mention 
that he's got a plan to make the best im- 
pression at the party, cackling. "Tonight, 
the dead will rise!" 

If attacked, Mudstone uses feign death 
on himself. The golem ignores any bat 
ties, except to defend himself. 

Room 26-Message Center 


The room is empty except for the ceil 
ing, which is completely covered with 
bats. All of the bats have notes at- 
tached to their legs with string. 


Unless the PCs startle them with a loud 
noise, the bats stay clinging to the ceiling. 
Since the ceiling is only about six feet 
high, a bat can easily be plucked from the 
ceiling without disturbing the rest. 

100 Bats: AC 8; MV l"/24"; HD 1-2 
hit points: hp 1; #AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 
20; SA cause confusion by swarming 


30 













when startled; AL N. 

All of the bats have the same message: 
"ATTENTION FIENDS OF ALL 
PERSUASIONS-RARTY TONIGHT AT 
MIDNIGHT. ALL YOU CAN EAT! JUST 
FOLLOW THE BATS." 

Mudstone released these bats out of a 
small window located in the east wall of 
this room. This was Mortykraken's plan 
for sending invitations to the evil powers. 
All of the bats have now retumed. 

There is a sheer drop from the window 
into a bottomless cavem. 

Party Time 

About half an hour before midnight, all 
of the residents stop what they're doing 
and move toward room 24. If the PCs 
don't join them. guards approach and 
force them in the right direction. 

When they near the door. the PCs see 
swarms of goblins, orcs, bugbears, and 
ogres pouring into room 24, chattering 
excitedly. If necessary, guards are availa- 
ble to herd them inside. 

If the PCs didn't recover the missing 
baby bugbear, Yekki and her two guards 
spot the PCs in the corridor outside room 
24 and attack them, crying "Baby 
trillers! " They fight to the death, but stop 
if the PCs duck into room 24. 

Once in the room, the PCs see it has 
been prepared for a magnificent banquet. 
There are tables and chairs for hundreds 
of guests. The tables are loaded with 
platters of roasted sea gulis along with 
serving dishes of soup, casseroles, and 
other treats from the kitchen. The tables 
also contain frosted fioating eyes and cen- 
terpieces of strangle weed and retch 
globes. On a platter on the main table par 
allel to the north wall is the roasted car- 
rion crawler with a retch globe stuck in its 
mouth. In the center of the room is the 
varrdig fountain (assuming the PCs didn't 
kill it). The ice block with the frozen cera- 
tosaur is centered against the west wall. 
Under the ice block and out of sight is a 
trap door leading out of this level. 

Near the middle of the main table are 
two 30-foot-high chairs. Wyperag and 
Gorgie are already in them, trying to look 


impressive. Mudstone is seated at a table 
near the high chairs. Behind them, the 
lurker above is spread out and nailed to 
the wall. The greeting "WELCOME 
HELLSPAWN" is painted across its body 
in large red letters. 

When the PCs get inside, four ogre 
guards hånd them water pitchers and or 
der them to keep glasses filled. 

By 10 minutes before midnight, every- 
one is seated, except the servers (includ- 
ing the PCs). In all, there are about 400 
present. Five minutes later, several 
servers bang iron gongs, signaling that 
midnight is at hånd. The room fails silent. 

Tension is high as the final minutes 
crawl by. Midnight arrives. Nothing hap 
pens. 

More time passes. No one moves a 
muscle (guards guarantee silence from 
the PCs). Still nothing. 

An hour goes by. Gorgie and Wyperag 
shift uneasily in their high chairs. Some of 
the creatures begin to mutter. Two orcs 
begin an argument. One breaks a retch 
globe over the other's head. 

Just as it looks as if a food fight is about 
to start, the room begins to tremble, gen- 
tly at first, then hard enough to rattie the 
glasses. The room grows silent again as 
the tremors increase. 

There is a crack of thunder from out 
side the south wall, and the door slams to 
the floor. Standing in the doorway is a 
homed fiend over 13 feet tall; he looks 
angry. Three 12-foot-high homed mon- 
strosities accompany him. 

Asmodeus (arch-devil): AC -7; MV 
12"/24"; HD 199hitpoints: H AT 1; Dmg 
2d6 + 2; SA pyrotechnics, produce flame, 
wall of fire, ice storm, wall of ice, contin- 
ual light, read languages. read magic, de- 
tect invisible, locate object, invisibility, 
dispel magic, bold person, bold monster, 
sbape change, beguile, rulerslup, mass 
charm, geas, restoration, raise dead 
fully, wish, all once per tum or melee 
round; symbol o f pain, symbol of insanity, 
symbol of hopelessness, unholy word, all 
once per day; gaze causes fear, fear and 
weakness, or chili ; SD +3 or better 
weapon to hit; MR 90% AL LE) 

3 Pit fiends (greater devils): AC -3; 
MV 6" //15"; HD 13: hp 70; HAT 2; Dmg 


ld4 +4/ld6 + 6; THACO 9; SA Pyro 
technics, produce flame, wall of fire, de- 
tect magic, detect invisible, polymorph 
self, hold person, gate, all once per tum 
or melee round; symbol of pain once per 
day; SD +2 or better weapon to hit; MR 
65%; AL LE. 

Asmodeus studies the room, shaking 
his head in disbelief. At last he speaks. his 
voice like thunder. "Who dåres 
summon-" 

Mudstone leaps to his feet, and Asmo 
deus stops in mid-sentence. Mudstone 
thrusts his hånds in the air and cries, 
"Let the dead arise!" Instantly, Mud 
stone's special animate dead spell takes 
effect and every roasted sea guil in the 
room begins to dance on the table tops. 

Asmodeus watches the dancing sea 
guils for a moment, then erupts in a roar 
of laughter. He and the pit fiends cast a 
total of nine produce flame spells around 
the room, then vanish, never to return. 

All this happens so fast, the PCs can do 
little else but watch. However, if they try 
to escape, attack, or otherwise draw at 
tention to themselves, the pit fiends cast 
pyrotechnics and produce dame as nec 
essary to keep them in their place. 

When Asmodeus departs, the entire 
room is ablaze, and panic sweeps the 
room as quickly as the Dames. Creatures 
are screaming and trying to make their 
way to the south exit. 

One of the fire blasts struck near the 
ice block. The ceratosaur will be free in 
five minutes. 

Ceratosaur: AC 5; MV 15"; HD 8; hp 
50; HAT 3: Dmg Id6/ld6/4d4; THACO 
12; AL N. 

The ice block was concealing a trap 
door. When the ceratosaur is free, the 
trap door is revealed. (If the PCs aren't 
looking, have the ceratosaur roar to at 
trået their attention.) The confused cera 
tosaur won't leave the area, so the PCs 
will have to kill it or drive it away with 
torches to get to the trap door. 

When the ceratosaur is out of the way, 
the PCs can open the trap door and es 
cape to the next level. As for the locals 
and their problems, they'11 have to dream 
up a new plan some other time. 


31 







fjlLevel 3= 

Hoo niAny cooks 


nnngeon-Level 3 


Too Many Cooks is prepared for use by 
five to eight characters of 5th to 6th level, 
though DMs should be prepared to be 
flexible, based on the performance of the 
characters in the first two levels of the 
Castle Greyhawk dungeon. 

Encounter Setting 

The entrance from the level above 
leads to a prison level once used by the 
rulers of Greyhawk. This area was walled 
up years ago but has recently been 
reopened-from the inside! The pris- 
oners of this level were a trio of inept 
cooks: Chef Molenhowad. Baker Lari- 
fyne, and Candymaker Kurlenshembes, 
who served many inedible meals in the 
castle above. They were consigned to 


long imprisonment after one disastrous 
effort that left 30 important guests in the 
care of the castle's healers. 

With the help of Galomohgen, an ine- 
briated wizard who was similarly impris- 
oned, the cooks escaped into a series of 
cavems connected to the dungeon level. 
Apparently swept away in the current of 
an underground river, the cooks and the 
wizard were forgotten and the level was 
sealed off. The quartet of fugitives actu- 
ally survi ved, however. Though they 
feared pursuit, in truth everyone was 
glad to be rid of them. The cooks have 
made their home below ground ever 
since, leaming a bit of magic from their 
companion and growing increasingly 
dotty as time wore on. 

Galomohgen created a safe haven for 
his friends in the hidden caves. while they 


searched for the perfect menu that would 
win them back into the good graces of the 
rulers of Greyhawk. Years passed, and 
Galomohgen's alcoholic excesses finally 
got the better of him. Knowing he was 
soon to die, the crocked-but-kindly 
magic-user prepared magical items that 
would help the cooks survive until they 
could return to the outer world as true 
masters of the culinary arts. 

But after the wizard's passing, the 
strain of magical cookery on the less- 
than-keen brains of the chefs just made 
them more and more eccentric. The ec- 
centricity would have remained harmless 
had it not been for the activation of the 
Random Monster Generator. Somehow, 
the cooks' magical kitchen utensils tied 
into the vast power of this bizarre arti- 
fact, bringing their culinary creations to 


O- Door 
-t/> Secret Door 


o: 


o . , , 

Glowing 

Wall 

. ' O ¦ 

o- 

° -  or-' 


 Bars 

Curtalns 

Scale: 1 Square = lOFee 


32 








life. Some of these melt-in-your-mouth 
monsters are harmless, some are 
strange and dangerous. and a few are 
downright evil. 

To survive this level of the dungeon and 
pass on to the next, the characters will 
need to deal with the cooks' creations, 
find the key to their connection with the 
Random Monster Generator, and defeat 
the plans of their most intelligent and dan 
gerous creation, Mentu the Mind-Fileter. 
An ally is available to them in the pudgy, 
adorable form of Poppinfarsh, a miniature 
dough golem. It is also possible that the 
party can summon the spirit of Galo- 
mohgen himself for aid. 

NPCs 

Chef Molenhowad: AC 8; MV12"; MU 
1; hp 6: H AT 1; Dmg by weapon; THACO 
20; ST 12 IN 12 WS 3 DX 11 CN 17 CH 
11; AL N. Molenhowad has a spæn of 
stirring and an apron ofprotection +2 (as 
ring). He also has a key ring that opens all 
doors in the cooks' compiex. The Chef is 
the most belligerent of the three cooks; 
he tends to be suspicious of everything 
and everyone that is new or unfamiliar. 
He is strong-willed, tricky, and hard to 
reason with under the best of circum- 
stances. Molenhowad and his two part 
ners are only magic-users by the 
broadest definition. They have received 
enough training to operate Galomohgen's 
magical items, but they know no spells of 
their own. 

Baker Larifyne: AC 8; MV 12"; MU 1; 
hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg bv weapon; THACO 
20; ST 11 IN 10 WS 3 DX 12 CN 16 CH 
11; AL NG. Larifyne has a self-rolling 
rolling pin and an apron ofprotection +2 
(as ring). He also has a key ring that 
opens all doors in the cooks' compiex. 
The Baker is the most reasonable of the 
trio. but he is easily swayed from one 
viewpoint to another by his fellow cooks 
or by others of strong will. such as Mentu 
the Mind-Fileter. 

Candymaker Kurlenshembes: AC 8; 
MV 12"; MU 1; hp 7; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; THACO 20; ST 12 IN 8 WS 3 
DX 10 CN 18 CH 12; AL CG. Kurlen 


shembes has a candy probe/taster of 
cooling and an apron ofprotection +2 (as 
ring). He also has a key ring. but it is 
rarely with him. (At this time. he has lost 
it and it can be found by the characters.) 
The Candymaker is open and friendly but 
hopelessly scatterbrained. He is child- 
like and subject to a child's mood swings, 
tantrums, etc. He gets bored easily, and 
is very much a coward, even more so 
than the other two. 

Poppinfarsh the Dough Golem: AC 5; 
MV 6"; HD 3; hp 12; #AT 1; Dmg nil or 
by weapon; THACO 16; SA nil; SD see 
below; AL LG. Poppinfarsh is unfailingly 
friendly, helpful, courteous, and cute to 
the point of making the average person 
ill. He has a pleasant little giggie that rap 
idly becomes annoying, a bouncy way of 
walking that gets on people's nerves after 
a while, and an innocently optimistic Out 
look on life that would make the mildest 
saint want to strangle him after about 20 
minutes. Poppinfarsh has the mind and 
attention spån of a six-year-old. Despite 
this, he is the closest thing to a friend the 
characters are likely to find on this level. 

Galomohgen the Wizard: AL CG. 
Standard statistics are meaningiess for 
Galomohgen, since he exists at this time 
only as a disembodied spirit called by the 
Gobiet of Ghosts. Unlike a true ghost, 
spectre, etc., Galomohgen cannot affect 
or be affected by anything on the Prime 
Material Plane, except to drink from the 
Gobiet and converse with those who 
summon him. He cannot roam more than 
30 feet from the Gobiet of Ghosts (and 
would not want to in any event), and will 
remain only as long as the Gobiet has 
wine or other alcoholic beverage inside it. 

Galomohgen is constantly drunk, and 
gets more drunk still as he guzzles from 
the Gobiet. The characters will have a 
hard time making the beverage in the 
Gobiet last long enough to keep Galo 
mohgen's spirit on this plane for any 
length of time. He is friendly with anyone 
who buys the drinks and seems to have 
the best interests of the chefs at heart, 
but he is hostile and uncooperative to 
those who are stingy and mean-spirited. 
Even at his most cooperative, Galo 
mohgen's mind wanders, making him an 


unreliable source of information at best. 
Though he will try to pace himself if 
asked, he loves wine, ale, etc. and will 
guzzle it rapidly as long as it is available. 

Mentu the Mind-Fileter: AC 5; MV 
12"; HD 6; hp 20; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 or by 
weapon; THACO 13; SA mind fileting; SD 
nil; AL NE. Mentu is seven feet tall. and 
his body is stitched together from various 
cuts of meat. His thighs are huge hams, 
his arms are legs of lamb, his fingers are 
sausages, etc. His head is a rather poorly- 
preserved octopus. Mentu avoids combat 
whenever possible, preferring to use his 
special mind-fileting attack. By concen- 
trating. Mentu can cause the minds of up 
to 10 intelligent fæs to become fogged. 
Victims of this power suffer a -4 penal ty 
to all saving throws and roils to hit for as 
long as Mentu concentrates. If Mentu is 
wounded for more than 3 points of dam 
age, or directly engaged in melee, his con- 
centration is broken. 

The mind-fileter is a born plotter, de- 
lighting in elaborate and dastardly plans 
to conquer the Upper World (which he 
has never seen). In faet, he is better at 
planning than at carrying through his 
plans. (Otherwise, he'd have been out 
and conquering long since.) 

Mentu is very strong-willed and his in- 
fluence over the cooks is very great. 
They recognize his intelligence (but not 
his evil) and consider him their most 
trusted adviser. He uses this position of 
trust to feed their egos and mampulate 
them into creating ever-more-powerful 
and useful creations, which Mentu will 
soon gather into a conquering army. 
Mentu is convinced of his physical and 
mental superiority over "breadthings" 
like Poppinfarsh and "unenhanced ani- 
mals" (his private name for intelligent be- 
ings who do not consist of sewn-together 
meat products). 

Encounter Key 

The Prison Section 

The exit from the level directly above 
leads only to a large archway that was ap- 
parently bricked up at one time but is now 
passable. Broken bricks lie mostly to the 


33 






outside of the walled-up area. Any char 
acter making a reasonable inspection will 
realize that the brickwork was smashed 
from the inside (by gummy werebears 
sent on a surface errand by Mentu). 
There are unidentifiable footprints of 
something large, shoeless, and two- 
legged in the dust. Beyond the entrance 
is a stairway going down to the prison 
level, opening into a second archway and 
the Entry Hall. 

Area 1: Entry Hall 

This room was once the piace where 
arriving off-shift guards checked in. It is 
in a State of disrepair. It is rough-hewn 
from the surrounding rock, with large 
wooden pillars and beams now beginning 
to dry-rot. A wooden rack for doaks, 
sword belts, etc. still hangs crookedly on 
the north wall. The open eastem door is 
of heavy but now-rusting metal, and 
hangs loosely from broken hinges. It has 
a small, barred peephole at eye level. 

Area 2: Guard Room 

The guard for this cell block once spent 
most of his time here. The room is now in 
a State of disrepair similar to that in area 
1. A half-rotted wooden table and a decid- 
edly rickety chair are the only fumishings 
left. The door to the south leads to a stor 
age area that holds racks, shelves, and a 
couple of empty barreis. (The storage 
room was deared out years ago.) 

The door to the west is of similar con- 
struction to the door from area 1. It is 
dosed, but not locked. The door to the 
north is of lightweight wood and has no 
lock. 

Area 3: Cell Block 

This corridor has two barred cells each 
to the north and south. The cells are sep 
arated from the corridor and each other 
only by closely spaced iron bars. The cell 
doors are all open, and each cell contains 
only a thin metal platter and a ragged pile 
of doth and sawdust that might have once 
been a crude mattress. 

There is graffiti scrawled on the walls 
of the cells, mostly in the common tongue 


of Greyhawk. A set of tally marks, num- 
bering 394 in all, covers one section of a 
wall in the SE cell. A number of tic-tac- 
toe games have been scratched in the 
wall near the bars between the NE and 
NW cells. A number of recipes for choco- 
late mousse are scratched in crude hand- 
writing on the walls of the NW cell. 
Magical symbols and numbers adorn the 
walls of the SW cell. At the end of one in- 
comprehensible string of symbols is writ- 
ten the word "Eureka!" The wall and 
floor near this point are blackened, as if 
by a small fire. 

Area 4: Corridor 

This corridor is breached at one point 
on the north by a crude hole in the wall. 
Again, there is evidence this had been 
walled up, then broken out from the in 
side. Down the corridor to the east is a 
lightweight wooden door that hangs open 
on one hinge. 

Area 5: KitchenyDining Area 

Once used by the guard on duty, this 
was a small kitchen in which both the 
guard 's lunch and the prisoners' gruel 
was prepared. A heavy table with two 
chairs still stands in the room's center, 
though it is dusty and covered with spider 
webs. A few cupboards along the east 
wall stand open and empty, with a few rat- 
gnawed bags and casks still inside. A 
small fireplace is set in the south wall, 
with a couple of logs in it along with lots of 
ashes. An odd sharp/sweet smell can be 
detected faintly near the cupboards or 
the fireplace. 

Two black licorice snakes are curled up 
in the fireplace. If it is approached and ex- 
amined closely (ashes stirred, etc.) they 
will be disturbed and will attack. A third 
black licorice snake is in one of the floor- 
level cupboards and will attack by sur 
prise any one searching the cupboards. 
Disturbing one snake awakens all of 
them. 

3 Licorice Snakes: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 
2; hp 7: #AT 1: Dmg2d4; THACO16; SA 
constriction; SD none: AL N. These ap- 
pear at first glance to be large black con- 


strictor snakes. They make a similar 
hissing sound, but are actually just hollow 
tubes of licorice that cannot bite, but can 
swallow and eventually digest prey sev- 
eral times their diameter after killing it in 
their crushing coils. They smell sharp/ 
sweet, like black licorice, and once killed 
are just inanimate candy. They are also 
available in red strawberry flavor, if the 
DM wants another encounter some- 
where. (See MM7 entry for giant con- 
strictor snakes for details on constriction 
attacks.) 

Area 6: Food Storage Caves 

This natural cavem section was discov 
ered when the corridor to the south was 
first dug. It is used to store foodstuffs to 
make the prisoners' gruel. There are 
various broken and empty barreis here. 
A small spring of cool, clean water is lo- 
cated in one comer. 

Area 7: River Opening 

This tunnel opens onto a small section 
of a fast-moving underground river, 
which runs into the cavem and out again 
through openings below the surface of 
the water. A rickety wood-and-vine 
bridge has been siung across the water to 
an opening on the far side. It is safe. but 
the DM is urged to make the PCs as ner- 
vous as possible here, describing the 
swaying, creaking, decaying bridge in 
loving detail. The water is cold, clear, and 
rather deep. It moves fast from south to 
north and has a tricky undertow. Anyone 
jumping or falling in will be very lucky not 
to be swept away to drown. (This is 
where the cooks and the wizard were 
thought to have been killed.) The tunnel 
across the bridge leads north and south. 

Area 8: The Greenhouse 

The door into this cavem is heavy 
metal, in excellent repair, and is light- 
tight (thanks to strips of leather around 
the inside of the doorjamb). It is not kept 
locked. There are two empty torch- 
holders affixed to the walls just outside 
the door. 

The spacious room is brightly lit from 









above. Anyone looking up will see three 
glowing quartz crystal spheres hanging 
from the 20-foot-high ceiling. The 
spheres are three feet in diameter and 
are enchanted with permanent continual 
light spells as bright as noon sunlight. Re 
moval of any sphere will cause it to shat- 
ter violently and stop glowing. (This will 
annoy the cooks no end if they find out- 
they have no way to replace the 
spheres.) 

The Southern part of the cavem is filled 
with a large stand of wheat and a few 
rows of com. Both are tall enough to con- 
ceal a full-grown man. The grain rustles, 
and stray noises can be used to lead char- 
acters to believe someone or something 
is inside. (The DM may wish to place an 
encounter with several licorice snakes 
here.) The yield of com and wheat seems 
unusually large-much larger than any 
the characters have seen before. 

There are many types of vegetables 
and herbs growing in the northem por 
tion of the greenhouse cave, including 
sugar beets, carrots, lettuce, and onions. 
All seem enormously healthy and very 
large. All the plant life is irrigated by a 
well-tended network of small ditches, fed 
by a small spring in the Southwest comer. 
The entire installation is nothing short of 
ingenious. 

Anyone walking through the carrot 
patch will find a large key ring holding 
several keys and a number of thin strips 
of metal of various lengths and shapes. 
This is Kurlenshembes's key ring, and it 
opens most of the doors in the complex 
(except those to Mentu's lab. study, and 
quarters, and the secret doors in that 
wing). 

Area 9: Cave 1 


This open cave has several empty 
metal torch holders set about three 
feet from the floor. It is very clean for a 
cave and has a small spring outlet with 
a pool of cool water in the Southwest 
comer. 


The secret door to the west looks like 
part of the rock wall and is very cunningiy 


disguised. All chances for discovering it 
by nonmagical search are reduced by 
one-half. The door is a heavy section of 
wall that slides back on a counterweight. 
It is triggered by the insertion of the 
proper thin metal strip from any key ring 
into a narrow slit between the rocks. 
Finding the slit and the proper key from 
Kurlenshembes's key ring will be difficult 
and time-consuming. Even if the door is 
discovered, it cannot be forced open 
without biasting or tunneling. Halve all 
chances of picking this lock, as it is of a 
particularly cunning type. 

As the characters start up the corridor 
to the north toward area 10, they detect a 
strong odor of strawberries. 

Area 10: Cave 2 

Moving up the corridor toward area 10, 
the odor of strawberries gets even 
stronger, as the party sees a transparent 
pink jelly-like wall moving toward them. 
The corridor is blocked at the north end 
by a strawberry gelatinous cube moving 
slowly south. Several metallic objects are 
caught up in it. including three spoons, a 
small dagger, a flour scoop, and a 
breadknife (the Mithril Breadknife of 
Greyhawk-see below). 

Strawberry gelatinous cube: AC 8; MV 
8"; HD 5; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; THACO 15: 
SA paralyzation. smell; SD see below: 
AL N. Strawberry gelatinous cubes were 
one of the first magical creations of the 
cooks. These monsters are scavengers 
similar to their non-edible cousins. They 
have the same paralyzing touch and dis- 
solving effect as the normal gelatinous 
cubes (see MMD¦ Because of their pink 
color and strong odor, they cannot sur 
prise their victims. Instead, they lure 
their victims, salivating hungrily, to them 
(saving throw vs. poison to resist). Once 
familiar with the cubes, no saving roil is 
needed. 

The cube is affected by weapons, fire. 
magic. etc. just as a normal gelatinous 
cube. When killed, it loses its shape and 
becomes a pile of yummy strawberry gel- 
atin that soon becomes a sticky mess if 
not cleaned up. There are several of 
these cubes in the complex; for every 15 


minutes of play, there is a 1 in 6 chance of 
an encounter. If left alone, they move 
through the halls and rooms, eating any- 
thing organic and leaving the tunnels neat 
and tidy, with a fresh strawberry scent. 
Of course. the residents know enough to 
stand aside when one comes through. 

The Mithril Breadknife 
of Greyhawk 

Back when the cooks were employed 
in the kitchens of Castle Greyhawk, they 
made the mistake of serving the manor 
lord a loaf of bread that he could not cut 
with a battie axe. Enraged, he ordered 
them put to death if they ever again 
served him bread too tough to cut. The 
terrified cooks bribed the castle armorer 
to forge a specially enchanted breadknife 
made of mithril that was able to cut any 
sort of bread or pastry with ease. Thus, 
the manor lord never again had problems 
cutting the bread. When sent to the 
dungeons, Kurlenshembes brought the 
knife with him. The guards confiscated 
and used the knife, but it was misplaced 
after a time. The strawberry gelatinous 
cube recentiy tumed it up on a sweep 
through the prison wing. 

The Mithril Breadknife will cut any sort 
of baked goods with ease. This is a minor 
magical ability, to be sure-unless you 
are faced by monsters made of pastry or 
dough! Against creatures such as the 
Gingerbread Man, fiapjacks, doughple- 
gangers, bread pudding, or poor little 
Poppinfarsh, it serves as a dagger +6 
that does twice normal damage! If driven 
into the pulsating raisin on the back of the 
Gingerbread Man (by a successful back 
stab), it will kil! him outright! 

The Mithril Breadknife is not balanced 
for throwing and doesn't really look like a 
fighting weapon. It is obviously very valu- 
able, however (perceived value about 
2,000 gp), and radiates a strong aura of 
magic. The Seal of Greyhawk is engraved 
in the handle. The cooks and Mentu will 
all recognize it on sight, and want it back 
very badly. Poppinfarsh has never seen it 
and knows nothing about it, but the very 
sight of it will make him ven,' nervous un- 
til it is put away. 

There are two secret sliding rock 


35 










doors on the nortli and west walls. Both 
open with keys from either Poppinfarsh 
or Kurlenshembes's key rings, but they 
are well-concealed. Treat as the secret 
door in area 9. 

A narrow leg of the cavem to the east 
is illuminated by a small torch set in a 
holder on the north wall about three feet 
off the ground. The torch is half bumed 
down. The tunnel to the east is covered 
at one point by a series of thick, coarse 
curtains made of woven vines. These 
form a "light trap" to keep Iight out of the 
mushroom room. The curtains can easily 
be pushed aside to enter this corridor. 

Area 11: The Mushroom Room 

This room and the corridors leading to 
it are deliberately kept dark. Mushrooms 
grow best in the dark, and the special 
mushrooms grown here are rather 
annoying when exposed to light. As the 
characters enter, from either entrance, 
take note of what light sources they have. 

The corridor opens up ahead of them, 
and their light will dimly show a room 
ahead. The room's walls seem to glow 
very, very dimly of their own accord. 
There is a strong odor of decay in the 
room, as if from a compost pile. Decaying 
stalks, leaves, and clippings can be seen 
scattered about. The shapes of large 
mushrooms can be seen in the gloom 
ahead. Suddenly. the party will notice the 
movement of something white among the 
shadows. 

The white shape is Poppinfarsh, the 
dough golem (see NPCs). If the charac 
ters call out, he will hide. Whether the in- 
truders are strangers or bullying gummy 
werebears. he has nothing to gain by 
speaking up. Poppinfarsh can see well 
enough in the half-dark created by the 
phosphorescent moss on the walls to find 
his way about. If the characters approach 
with torches or unshuttered lantems, 
they will spot Poppinfarsh's little wheel- 
barrow about the time they come within 
range of the morel shriekers. The fights 
will cause the shriekers to emit a pierc- 
ing, high-pitched scream. 

20 Morel shriekers: AC 7; MV 0"; HD 
2; MT 0; Dmg nil; THACO nil; SA nil; 


SD see below; AL N. These close cous- 
ins of the regular shrieker fungus have 
been raised by the cooks for their mouth- 
watering Qavor. Unlike the normal 
shriekers, they are not mobile, nor does 
movement disturb them. This makes 
them a bit easier to tend. Bright light 
(such as from a torch or unshuttered lan- 
tem) within about 15 feet causes them to 
suddenly emit a painfully piercing shriek 
that lasts for ld3 melee rounds and can be 
heard at least 200 feet away with ease. 
These specimens are about four feet tall 
and are crowned with tall, spongy caps 
rather than the broad flat caps associated 
with normal shriekers. 

If the shriekers start making noise, 
Poppinfarsh will panic. He knows the 
noise will disturb the gummy werebear 
guards. He will pop out of hiding and run 
around frantically. The party can easily 
fade back into the shadows of the other 
big normal mushrooms and hide. If they 
stay in plain view, with torches lit, Pop 
pinfarsh will see them and run for the far 
exit. 

One turn after the noise starts (or 
when Poppinfarsh tries to leave), two 
gummy werebear guards (one red. one 
green) enter through the opening oppo- 
site the one the players entered. Each is 
carrying a short spear made of candy 
cane and has a short sword at his belt. 

If the party is hidden, the guards will 
blame Poppinfarsh for the noise, and 
start kicking him around a bit, calling him 
a "clumsy dough-thing" and a "lazv refu- 
gee from a cookie-cutter." The punching 
and kicking won't actually injure Poppin 
farsh, but it hurts and he will cringe and 
complain. The aim of the DM should be to 
get the party interested in protecting the 
poor little dough golem from the big bul- 
lies. If the party stays hidden, the guards 
will go away after awhile. Poppinfarsh will 
brush himself off and go retrieve his 
wheelbarrow. He will spot the hidden 
party at this time. 

If, for any reason, the guards see the 
party, they will drop-kick the little dough 
golem out of the way. He will cringe in the 
comer as one of the guards blows a whis 
tle. This calls four more guards. who will 
arrive in five melee rounds. The guards 


order the intruders to surrender and drop 
their weapons. If the party surrenders, 
they are marched directly to Mentu in 
area 13. with Poppinfarsh dragged along 
as well. If not, the guards attack. 

2 Gummy werebears: AC 6; MV 3"; 
HD 5; hp 18, 17; MT 1; Dmg ld6 or by 
weapon; THACO 15; SA nil; SD see be 
low; AL CN. These critters are intelli 
gent guards now under Mentu's orders. 
They resemble big. muscular man-bears 
made of some sort of flexible, transpar 
ent material in bright red, green, blue. 
yellow, and purpie. They move slowly 
and are not very dextrous, but they are 
much stronger than a normal human. 
They have no sharp claws, but their big 
rubbery paws hit for ld6 points of dam 
age. 

Gummy werebears speak the common 
tongue, but are no smarter than the aver 
age orc. Impact weapons such as maces 
do only half normal damage against the 
rubbery werebears. They do not bleed or 
have vital organs, therefore cutting and 
slashing weapons such as swords and 
daggers do half damage as well. Magical 
weapons, spells, and fire do full damage. 
Gummy werebears are an odd form of ly- 
canthrope that never changes from the 
were-form except in death. When killed 
they become cute. one-foot-tall jelly ba- 
bies of humanoid shape. 

Poppinfarsh will be grateful to anyone 
who rescues him from the cruel gummy 
werebears. He is quite unconcemed 
about their deaths. "Easy come, easy go. 
The Great Chefs will just make more, I 
suppose," he will say. If questioned, he 
will introduce himself as "Poppinfarsh, 
the dough golem," and declare himself 
the servant of the Great Chefs of Grey- 
hawk. This, of course, will make the 
party want an explanation. and Poppin 
farsh will be only too happy to oblige. tell- 
ing the story as the chefs have told it to 
him. 


"Long ago," Poppinfarsh say s in his 
cute, squeaky little voice, "three won- 
derful chefs lived in the Castle of 
Greyhawk far above our cavems. 
They were the greatest chefs in all the 


36 










as possible about what is really going on 
here, and will answer their questions 
with more questions whenever possible. 
He will tell the party that the Chefs "can't 
possibly be disturbed at this time," and 
will not change his mind on that score. If 
the characters mention that they are on a 
mission to the lower depths, or that they 
are searching for the Random Monster 
Generator, he will look thoughtful, strok- 
ing his tentacled chin. 

"Perhaps I can help you," Mentu will 
say. "I know of a secret tunnel that goes 
down into the depths of this dungeon 
where none of us have ventured in recent 
years. I will take you there, if you will 
give me a bit of assistance first." 

The task Mentu wants performed is 
very simple. In the storage area adjoining 
the lab are several huge loaves of un- 
baked dough. He will tell them to handle 
the loaves carefully once unwrapped, 
commenting that the gummy werebears 
are too clumsy to do the job right. He will 
ask them to place the loaves in the large 
oven in the lab. 

If the characters agree, Mentu will un- 
lock the airtight door into the storage 
chamber to the east (only his key s work). 
The chamber is cool and dry "to preserve 
the dough," Mentu explains. He has no 
idea how this is done-it has always been 
that way. (Powerful magic is at work 
here. provided years ago by Galomohgen 
the Wizard.) 

Inside are 15 man-sized loaves of 
dough wrapped carefully in wax-coated 
parchment. He will unwrap one loaf at a 
time and ask each character in turn to 
carry it to the oven and shove it inside. 
The loaves are heavy, but none of the 
characters will have any trouble moving 
one. He will admonish them to be gentie, 
while trying to ensure that each character 
has carried one loaf. (DM Note: Keep a 
secret record of who has and has not car 
ried a loaf. The players should not be al- 
lowed to suspect anvthing unusual at this 
point!) If any characters refuse, Mentu 
will appear reluctant to give them the in 
formation they need. "After all, if one 
cannot count on one's friends...." 

Once one loaf per PC is placed in the 
oven, Mentu will lock up the storage area 


and thank the party. He will close the 
oven door and order the gummy were 
bears to stoke the fire, tuming over a 
large hourglass as he gives his orders. 
Even if some have refused to help, 
Mentu graciously offers to help put them 
on their way to the lower depths, and will 
lead them to the secret door in area 15. 

If the lab is approached at any other 
time in the adventure, it is locked. The 
heavy metal door can be opened only by 
major force or by a key on Mentu's own 
key ring. The lab is empty at such times, 
with something in the hot oven if the 
characters have earlier aided Mentu in 
moving the loaves. If the baking loaves 
are checked, they are discovered to be 
half-formed but recognizable duplicates 
of the characters who carried them. If 
found in the oven, they are not yet alive. 
These are doughplegangers, explained 
further in encounter 24. 

Area 14: Mentu's Quarters 

The heavy wooden door here is kept 
locked. Mentu has the only key. The in 
side is not opulently fumished, but it is 
more comfortably maintained than any- 
place else in this complex, with a couple 
of rather nice tapestries that were once 
the property of the wizard Galomohgen. 
(These two bulky tapestries are worth 
about 200 gp each, if they can be brought 
to the surface.) 

There is a bed with a wom but still 
serviceable mattress. Beneath it is a non- 
magical wooden staff. A large table is 
covered with papers and notes, most of 
which are impossible to read because of 
Mentu's poor handwriting. 

The wooden door to the west leads to a 
walk-in closet. It is locked and Mentu has 
the only key. Inside, just above the door- 
sill, is a counterweighted bell and a thin 
glass sphere fiHed with Instant Taffy. The 
bell will ring and the sphere will fali if the 
door is forced in any way, but not if the 
lock is successfully picked. When bro- 
ken, the sphere releases a gas that 
hardens instantly into tough taffy-like 
strands that act as a web spell. This filis a 
10-foot space around the doorway. These 
strands remain until bumed or cut away. 


The bell summons two gummy werebear 
guards in two melee rounds, with four 
more arriving five rounds after that. 

Inside the closet are several garments 
wom by Mentu, some of which once be- 
longed to Galomohgen. Four sets of 
robes are decorated with gold thread and 
semi-precious stones. These are worth 
about 250 gp each. One rather drab grey 
robe (that Mentu never wears) is a robe 
of useful items containing the standard 
items called for in the DMG, plus the fol- 
lowing: two flasks of fine elven wine. 1 
scroll (Tenser's Qoating disc), 1 potion of 
extra-healing, 1 bag of 100 gold pieces 
(these are very old coins, worth three 
times face value to a collector), and one 
five-foot-wide by four-foot-deep cast-iron 
cauldron. All other items of dothing are 
virtually worthless. 

The floor has a concealed panel (found 
like a secret door) beneath which Mentu 
has stashed a large chest containing trea- 
sure that the gummy werebears have 
brought back from their expeditions to 
the upper levels and the surface. The 
trap door is neither locked nor trapped, 
but the locked chest has a concealed nee- 
dle on the lock mechanism that will jab 
anyone who tries to pick it (unless spot- 
ted and disarmed first). The needle is 
covered with Essence of Blueberry, 
which will cause the stung hånd to tum 
blue and swell up like a balloon, making it 
useless for holding items, picking locks, 
etc. for about 24 hours. No saving throw 
is allowed. 

The chest contains three green gems 
worth about 150 gp each, 200 gp in coins, 
two flasks marked "Nectar of the Gods" 
(actually they contain a rather bitter 
dwarven wine, but Mentu has a weak- 
ness for the stuff), and a golden crown set 
with red jewels worth about 1,000 gp. 
The latter is something Mentu intends to 
wear when he becomes Ruler of the Up 
per World. 

The western wall of the closet slides 
aside to reveal a secret door. The narrow 
passage behind it leads to the Ginger- 
bread Man's lair in area 18. This is the en- 
trance that Mentu would normally use to 
approach the monster. Anyone coming 
into the lair this way automatically gains 


38 





surprise on the contentious confection, 
who expects only his master to use this 
door. 

Area 15: Small Guard Station 

There is a recessed nook in the corri- 
dor at the bend, where a single gummy 
werebear guard is always stationed. He 
will challenge anyone Corning through the 
corridor except Mentu or the cooks (or 
those escorted by them). A secret panel 
behind the guard's chair reveals a rough- 
hewn cavem corridor through which 
Mentu disposes of intruders. He will lead 
the party here, claiming that this is the 
way to the lower depths. In faet it is, but 
Mentu doesn't know that. He is really 
sending the characters into a trap, in- 
tending for them to be killed by the bread 
pudding. He will allow Poppinfarsh to ac- 
company the characters, and Poppinfarsh 
will be quite happy to go. If the PCs won't 
take him, Poppinfarsh will be taken by the 
guards to Mentu's quarters and locked in 
after the characters leave. 

The sliding rock that conceals the en- 
trance is dosed behind the characters af 
ter they proceed down the corridor a bit. 
Once closed and blocked from the out- 
side, it cannot be opened again from the 
inside short of a major explosion or multi 
ple attacks by forces as powerful as a 
Ughtning bolt. 

Area 16: The Bread Pudding's 
Lair 

The corridor widens at this point into a 
dark cavem, with stalactites hanging 
from the ceiling. Large boulders are 
strewn randomly across the ground. 
Shadows move across the uneven ground 
in all directions as the torches move, 
makmg this a perfeet location for an am 
bush. The characters detect an awful 
smell as they approach, as if something 
large and unsanitary had died here. The 
opening to the west is clearly visible from 
the eastem entrance. 

Once the characters are halfway into 
the room, the bread pudding flows si- 
lently to the attack from a hiding place 
near the southem wall. As the monster 


moves, it releases its characteristically 
atrocious stench, which the party must 
overcome to battie it. Poppinfarsh has no 
knowledge of the pudding. It will not at 
tack him. however, because both are 
bread creatures. Poppinfarsh does not 
attack unless direetly ordered to do so, 
but he yells encouragement throughout 
the battie. ("Wbw! This is great! Hit it 
again! Ow, I bet that smarts!") 

Bread pudding: AC 6; MV 6"; HD 5: hp 
21; #AT 1; Dmg2d8; THACO 15; SA see 
below; SD immune to sharp weapons and 
fire: AL N. The bread pudding is a sloppy 
and horrible-smelling concoction that 
even the cooks won't admit to creating. 
Mentu was told to dispose of it, but in- 
stead he hid and fed it until it grew to a 
size of about eight feet across. It is now 
loyal only to Mentu, and will attempt to 
devour a ny thi n g else it encounters. 

The pudding is free-flowing. formless, 
greyish-brown, and lumpy, thus it con 
ceals itself well among rocks and dirt. 
The disgusting smell of the pudding is un- 
mistakable and is its greatest weapon. It 
smells bad when standing still, but its 
scent is overpowering when it moves to 
attack. This requires all in the area to roli 
a saving throw vs. poison. Failure leaves 
the victim unable to detend himself, 
throwing up uncontrollably for ld6 melee 
rounds. (Poppinfarsh can smell tlie pud 
ding. but it doesn't bother him.) 

It attacks by flowing over a victim, 
causing damage with an acid-Jike secre- 
tion. Full plate armor protects a victim for 
two melee rounds before the acid gets in 
side. Other forms of armor protect for 
only one round. The pudding is not 
harmed by sharp weapons. Impact weap 
ons such as maces hurt it by breaking up 
the lumps that form it. It is invulnerable 
to fire, but other attack forms cause nor 
mal damage. 

The niche against the southem wall, 
where the pudding is waiting, contains 
the skeletal remains of sorne of its other 
victims. Among the awfut-smelling debris 
can be found 180 gp in miscellaneous 
coins, a normal long sword, and a mace 
+ 2 . 


Area 17: The Trash Pit 

The heavy iron door to this room is 
tight-fitting and unlocked. Beyond is a 
smooth, bowl-shaped room. The cavern 
ceiling rises 30 feet above the doorway 
and is covered with stalactites and out- 
croppings. From the doorway, torches ii- 
luminate the ceiling dimly, with lots of 
dancing shadows. A huge pile of junk al 
most filis the room. Stone steps wide 
enough for one person at a time lead 
down into the room. 

The junk includes discarded items of all 
sorts, such as bent spoons, broken 
crockery, discarded boxes, barreis, and 
bottles. Also present are a few rusty 
suits of armor. bent swords, and other 
weapons, none of which prove useful if 
examined. The mounds of junk are so 
high that the party must climb over them 
in order to cross the room. 

One item will attract the attention of 
Poppinfarsh if he is here-a battered 
metal bottle that looks vaguely like a 
pitcher. If the dough golem is not with the 
party, the first person to declare he is 
iooking through the junk will find this 
item. The bottle is made of an odd and at- 
tractive reddish metal. It is tightly closed 
with a metal stopper marked with a set of 
unusual runes. Poppinfarsh will recognize 
the marks as the signature-runes of the 
oid wizard, Galomohgen. 

The stopper is tightly wedged into the 
bottle, requiring a Strength Check on 3d6 
to pull free. Poppinfarsh will be enthusi- 
astic about opening the bottle, sure that it 
is full of one of the wizard 's wonderful po 
tions. The bottle is heavy, but does not 
slosh. It must be opened to determine its 
contents. if any. 

If opened. the bottle will rapidly fill with 
a translucent yellow liquid. with floating 
slices of lemon and chunks of ice. It is. in 
faet, a decanter of endless lemonade. 
The lemonade is cold and delicious, and 
continues to well up in the bottle and 
overflow as long as it is unstoppered. 

As soon as he sees what is inside. Pop 
pinfarsh will squeal delightedly and grab 
for the bottle to take a drink. In the proc- 
ess, he will knock the stopper from the 
hånds of the person holding it and it will 










bounce away into the trash pile. lf the 
characters look for it. they will not find it 
immediately among all the metal and 
crockery. Meanwhile, the lemonade con- 
tinues to flow, complete with lots of ice 
chunks and lemon slices. The flow accel- 
erates the longer the bottle is open, until 
lemonade is gushing out at a rate of gal 
lons every second. Covering the bottle 
with a liand only works until the pressure 
builds up a bit. Likewise, any other sort 
of stopper only holds back the delicious 
flood for a few minutes. Drinking the lem 
onade is a temporan' solution at best. 

The intent here is to get the characters 
frantically searching among the junk for 
the missing stopper. Roli dice secretly for 
their attempts, but ignore the results. 
They just can't seem to find that stopper! 
DMs are encouraged to play this for all it 
is worth. The high-pressure stream of 
lemonade should soak everyone. It will 
soon fill the bowl-shaped room, lapping at 
their ankles within five minutes. Of 
course, looking for the stopper gets 
much harder in ankle-deep lemonade. 

If the characters decide to abandon the 
lemonade gusher, introduce a couple of 
new complications. The sides of the 
bowl-shaped floor are too smooth to 
climb, so the only way up and out is the 
narrow stone steps. When the PCs start 
up, they hear a rustle from above. Look 
ing up they see moving shadows among 
the stalactites. When they are halfway 
up, a group of flat, disc-shaped forms 
dives down into the room. These are the 
flying pies. an odd life-form for which the 
cooks could find no use, and abandoned 
here. 

12 Flying Pies: AC 6; MV 18" flying; 
hp 1; #AT 1: Dmg ld2; THACO 15; SA 
see below; SD nil; AL N. These mon 
sters resemble spinning, flying cream 
pies about 10 inches across. They come 
in lemon, coconut, and Boston creme va- 
rieties. They normally remain attached to 
high ceilings, feeding off moss and ab- 
sorbing water through their bottom 
crust. Movement attracts them. causing 
them to swarm about and make suicidal 
diving attacks on anything in motion. 
They are fast and hard to hit. They Con 
trol their flight well, making their attacks 


quite accurate. Each successful attack 
ends with the pie creature splattered in 
the face of the victim. Those hit suffer lit- 
tle damage, but are blinded by gooey pie 
for ld3 melee rounds. If a victim fails to 
rofl his Dexterity or less on ld20, he is 
knocked down. 

There are at least 12 flying pies in the 
swarm, but the GM should feel free to 
add a second swarm and keep up the at 
tacks as long as they are funny. The pies 
concentrate on those characters dimbing 
the stairs, trying to knock them back into 
the lemonade lake. When the players be- 
gin to get bored, allow them to make it up 
the stairs. 

If anyone decides to make one last dive 
for the stopper, he will find it with little 
difficulty. Poppinfarsh will offer if no one 
else wants to try. Once found, the stop 
per can easily be replaced. The decanter 
can then be taken along by the party. If 
the stopper is not replaced, the level of 
the lemonade in the room will continne to 
rise. Note whether or not the characters 
close the door behind them if the lemon 
ade is left running. Also, require saving 
throws for any items carried by the party 
that might be damaged by moisture (like 
scrolls and books). The party' will be 
pretty sticky until they have a chance to 
clean up. 

Area 18: Lair of the Gingerbread 
Man 

The northem door is made of heavy 
iron, like that of area 17, but it is not 
locked. The room is darkened and rough- 
cut, looking more like a natural cavem 
than something that was deliberately dug 
out of the rock and soil. The roof is dome- 
like and rises 20 feet above the rocky 
floor. There are two similar doors on the 
wall to the south. Sitting on the ground in 
front of them is an eight-foot-tall mon- 
strosity of baked goods-the Ginger 
bread Man. 

Gingerbread Man: AC 5; MV 6"; hp 
50; tf AT 1; Dmg 3dl0; THACO 10; SA 
nil: SD nil; AL N. The Gingerbread Man 
is actually the ultimate product of the 
same series of experiments that pro- 
duced Poppinfarsh. However, while the 


little dough golem is cute and soft. the 
Gingerbread Man is nasty and powerful. 
He is flattened grey-brown gingerbread 
of unusual toughness and his arms and 
legs are outlined with icing. His body is 
studded with crushed nuts and oversized 
raisins. If viewed from behind, one raisin 
in his back seems to throb and pulsate. If 
this raisin is stabbed with the Mithril 
Breadknife (requiringa -4 penalty to the 
attack roli for the small size of the target). 
the gingerbread monster dies instantly. 
The Gingerbread Man is only semi- 
intelligent, but he is a fearless and tire- 
less fighter. He is the guardian of this area 
and attacks all who enter, except Mentu. 

If the PCs manage to kill the Ginger 
bread Man, they find that only the east- 
emmost door is unlocked. This leads to 
Mentu's quarters. The other is locked 
and only Mentu has the keys. A success 
ful lockpick attempt or major force will 
open it. The door also has a small amount 
of open space at the bottom. If a charac 
ter suggests it, Poppinfarsh is flexible 
enough to shove his doughy body under 
the door. It opens easily without a key 
from the inside. Poppinfarsh will not think 
of this on his own. 

Area 19: Galomohgen's Tomb 

The door opens onto a short corridor, 
decorated with crude but recognizable 
paintings of an elderly wizard. The pakn 
ings show various scenes, including the 
escape of Galomohgen and the chefs from 
the prison cells, the rescue al llie rushing 
underground river, and the creation of 
the greenhouse cave. (DM: Make up de 
tails as you desire.) In each scene, the 
wizard is carrying a golden gobiet. 

The corridor opens into a large cavem. 
Against one wall, on a raised stone plat 
form, is a marble vault adomed with the 
rune-signature of Galomohgen. A golden 
gobiet, now dusty and long-unused, sits 
atop the vault. 

If Poppinfarsh is present, he will enter 
with reverence. "This is the tomb of the 
great and powerful Galomohgen. wizard 
to kings and king of wizards!" He will en- 
courage characters to remove hats and 
helmets and approach with dignity. 


40 






"I haven't been here to see the mighty 
one since Mentu took over," Poppinfarsh 
will explain. "I'd almost forgotten he was 
here." Then he will become agitated. 
"Oh, dear! Oh, my! Do any of you have 
any wine?" If the characters do, he will 
ask to have the cup filled in honor of the 
old wizard. "He so loved his wine," ex- 
plains Poppinfarsh. 

If the characters do not have Poppin 
farsh as a companion, they will have to 
figure things out for themselves. The 
magical runes around the edge of the 
golden cup can be read by any magic- 
user. They read "May your cup never 
run dry." The cup itself is exquisitely 
made and decorated with small jewels, 
worth no less than 400 gp in the city. 

If wine (or any other alcoholic 
beverage-lemonade doesn't work) is 
poured into the cup. a satisfied sigh can be 
heard from within the marble vault. The 
transparent ghostly form of Galomohgen 
will rise from his body's resting place, pick 
up the cup. and take a deep drink. 

"That hits the spot." says Galo 
mohgen. His voice is deep but his words 
are a bit siurr ed. He looks at the now- 
much-lowered level of fluid in the cup and 
says "Looks like 1 haven't long to be 
here. Who summons me?" 

Galomohgen will answer questions as 
long as wine is placed in his cup. but it 
never takes him long to drink it all, no 
matter how often the characters tell him 
to take it easy. He will explain. hesitantly 
and in a rambling. undirected sort of way, 
that he used his magic to help the cooks 
for many years before his liver finally 
gave out on him. "They're good men, 
though they never were much in the 
kitchen without me. to tell the truth. But 
they were my friends, so when I knew I 
was dying, 1 made them each a magical 
kitchen tool that would protect them and 
let them turn the few things they could 
raise down here into decent food. Little 
Poppinfarsh was my final gift to them-a 
loyal and true servant." 

Galomohgen will be surprised to hear 
about the variety of nasty food-creatures 
that have been cooked up since his de- 
mise. "I can't imagine how my magical 
kitchenware could have instilied such evil 


lifeforce into simple food. Certainly I am 
not surprised that the poor chefs could be 
tricked by an evil one. They are simple 
souls-not in the least evil, just mis- 
guided, I imagine. Be gentie with them." 
If the Random Monster Generator is 
mentioned, Galomohgen will express the 
theory that the magic utensils somehow 
are drawing on the wicked power of the 
evil artifact in the dungeons far below. 

Galomohgen's main concem is with the 
welfare of the chefs. "Promise me that 
you will get rid of those who use my 
friends as dupes, and that you will escort 
them safely to the upper world. If you will 
do this, and get them the pardon of the 
Lords of Greyhawk, I will grant you a gift, 
and point you on the correct path for your 
quest." He will insist that the cooks be 
rescued and brought to his tomb before 
he discusses the bargain further. Once 
the wine is gone (and before the charac 
ters ask more questions), liis spirit will 
burp once and return to its resting place. 

Pursuit of the Chefs 

The return, which must be made 
through the secret entrance into Mentu's 
quarters, is without incident. No one is 
present in the quarters or labs at this 
time. At the guard station (area 12), the 
guards only fight to stop the characters if 
the party' acts guilty or suspicious. 

As the party enters the corridor at area 
12 again, they see Mentu come around 
the comer at area 15. He is accompanied 
by three men in chef hats and aprons. 
They all stop and stare at the party for a 
second, then tum and run back around 
the comer. "It's the Great Chefs," says 
Poppinfarsh. "We must wam them of 
Mentu's treachery!" The guards will 
suddenly realize something is up at this 
point, and will try to delay the party. 
Don't let them be delayed more than a 
few melee rounds, though. It is important 
that the party have the opportunity to 
pursue the chefs at this time. 

Area 20: Guard Barracks 

The door to this area is of metal- 
banded heavy wood and is never locked. 


Two gummy werebear guards are always 
on duty immediately inside the doorway, 
armed with candy-cane spears and short 
swords. The southem wall on either side 
of the doorway has racks holding 30 each 
of these weapons. All of the other walls 
are broad shelves set floor to 15-foot- 
high ceiling. Gummy werebears of all col- 
ors lie unmoving on these shelves. When 
more guards are needed, the guards on 
duty simply drag them down from the 
shelves to activate them, and send them 
out. If the inert werebears are disturbed 
at all. they will begin waking up. 

Area 21: Kitchen Wing Entry 
Hall 

As the party rounds the comer at area 
15, they see Mentu leading the chefs 
through the door into this room. By the 
time they reach the light wooden door, it 
is bolted from the inside. The characters 
will have to chop it down. Meanwhile, 
Mentu herds the by-now-terrified chefs 
through the eastem secret door. It is 
closed and well-concealed by the time the 
characters enter. 

The southem door, however, is wide 
open, and leads to a trap prepared at area 
23. If the characters stop to search, they 
have the usual chance to locate the east 
em secret door. Poppinfarsh is not famil- 
iar with this part of the complex, so he is 
of no help navigating. 

Area 22: Griddle Controls 

The cooks had this special griddle pre 
pared to cook giant flapjacks. When the 
flapjacks tumed out to be dangerous (see 
area 23). they closed them off in the grid 
dle room and abandoned it. This room 
contains the Controls for the griddle. 
Mentu has sent the cooks ahead to the 
main kitchen. He is waiting here and 
watching through the grating overlooking 
the griddle until all the characters enter. 
Using these Controls, he pulis a large le 
ver that locks the counterweighted door 
behind the PCs. 

A second sliding control operates the 
magical fire that heats the griddle. Mentu 
sets the heat on high to warm up the 









party (and stir up the flapjacks). He then 
proceeds to the main kitchen. 

Area 23: The Griddle 

Both northern and Southern doors are 
made of heavy metal, but they swing eas- 
iiy, as if counterweighted by a hidden 
mechanism. If the doors are examined 
closely from the outside, the party will 
see that the mechanical lock system can 
be disabled with a few minutes work (or a 
couple of good whacks with a battJe axe). 

The room inside has stone walls and a 
smooth metal floor. The ceiling is stone, 
with three circular discolored spots about 
10 feet across. (DM: Do not describe the 
ceiling unless the characters make a point 
of examining it. They are likely to be in a 
hurry and might miss this due.) There is 
a metal grating set in the center of the 
eastem wail at eye level, through which 
light can be seen. 

The door may be spiked to prevent its 
dosing, but there is only a 1 in 6 chance 
that a single spike will do the job. Failure 
will only delay the closing for one meiee 
round. More spikes will improve the 
chances-2 in 6 chance for two spikes and 
so on. Six will hold it firmly open, jam- 
ming the dosing mechanism. 

The floor begins to heat up rapidly once 
the doors close. The characters hear Men 
tu's evil laughter and hear a door close be- 
yond the grating. Barefoot characters, like 
Poppinfarsh, and those with thin footgear 
will notice the rising warmth first. 

Just as the floor begins getting really 
hot (after about live meiee rounds), the 
characters will hear a popping sound from 
above. As they look up, one of the discol 
ored patches on the ceiling pops loose. It 
is a flapjack, which falis on the PC with 
the lowest Dexterity and forces him to 
the floor, smothering him. 

3 Flapjacks: AC 8; MV 2"; HD 4: hp 17, 
19, 16; #AT special; Dmg special; 
THACO nil; SA smothering; SD nil; AL N. 
About 10 feet wide and several inches 
thick, the flapjacks are attracted by heat. 
which is why the griddle hasn't been used 
in a while. When they sense heat, they fail 
from the ceiling, where their rough exte- 
rior conceals them. They glide down and 


try to land on the nearest moving object. 
Anyone trapped by a flapjack is thoroughly 
pinned by its bulk and strength, and cannot 
use weapons or spells. Others must free 
the victim within six meiee rounds or he 
will smother. Flapjacks are immune to all 
fire and heat attacks. They are repelled by 
cold, which causes them to withdraw rap 
idly and leap back to the ceiling. 

The characters have four meiee rounds 
to free the trapped member of the party 
before a second flapjack falis. Arrows or 
spells may be used against the flapjacks 
on the ceiling once they are recognized. 
The third falls five meiee rounds after the 
second. When a flapjack falls, all un- 
trapped characters, including Poppin 
farsh, must roli ld6. The character with 
the lowest roil is trapped. Break ties with 
a second roil. After the first surprise at- 
tack, victims get a last weapon attack be 
fore they are crushed to the floor. 

Besides the danger of smothering, vic 
tims trapped beneath a flapjack suffer ld6 
points of damage per meiee round from the 
hot floor. Those standing on the hot floor 
take ld3 points of damage per meiee 
round. 

If characters look through the grating, 
they can see into area 22. The iron grat 
ing is set firmly into the stone and cannot 
be removed. The bars are two inches 
apart. The Control panel is only half- 
visible from the grating, but one big lever 
can be seen sticking up. It is about six 
feet from the grating. A long pole weap- 
on's haft or a slim staff could be used to 
push it, or il could be hit by an arrow (- 6 
penalty to the attack roll). This opens the 
doors. A safety mechanism tums off the 
griddle when the doors are open. The 
floor cools enough to be nondamaging in 
three meiee rounds. 

If Poppinfarsh is trapped. he does not 
smother. but if not freed in three meiee 
rounds, he comes out as a flat, brown. 
cookie golem. He is otherwise unhurt, 
and his statistics do not change. Only his 
appearance is altered. 

Area 24: Main Kitchen 

The northern entrance to this room has 
no door, just a high arched entryway. 


Above the door is a bronze plaque with 
the phrase "Don't disturb the Chefs!" 

The room is lit by two of the perpetual 
light globes seen earlier in the green- 
house. The walls are lined with cabinets 
and shelves containing an incredible array 
of cooking utensils and supplies. The 
great fireplace in the western wall con 
ceals a secret exit. A huge cook pot hangs 
within. There is an open fire pit contain 
ing hot coals in the center of the room. A 
metal spit is suspended over the fire; it 
turns constantly with no visible means of 
operation. There is a smaller archway to 
the southeast. Against the Southern wall 
sits a four-foot-tall by seven-foot-wide 
closed wooden bin marked "Flour." 

As soon as the PCs have had time to 
get a look around the room, they hear 
someone sneeze. A second sneeze is 
soon heard from the direction of the flour 
bin. If the characters attack, or call for 
the hidden individuals to surrender, the 
cooks pop out of the bin in a cloud of flour. 

Altematively, if someone opens the 
bin, Molenhowad pops up and brains the 
intruder with his magical spoon. No dam 
age results, but the character is sur- 
prised and stunned for one meiee round. 
All the cooks, covered with flour, jump 
out and run around the room. Play this for 
as many laughs as possible. The panicked 
cooks toss flour, sugar, and other food- 
stuffs, shoot whipped cream from small 
tubes they get out of a cabinet, run 
around and around the fire pit, etc. Use 
your imagination. 

If the characters get serious about 
hurting the cooks, the three flee through 
the Southwest archway to the safety (?) 
of their individual rooms, where they 
must be coaxed out from under the beds. 

If the party ceases all attacks and 
makes an effort to calm the cooks down, 
they are willing to chat. They had no idea 
that Mentu tried to kill the characters. 
Mentu had told them that the party was a 
group of assassins sent from Greyhawk 
to hunt them down and slay them. Once 
the cooks are convinced that this isn't 
true, they beg the party to intercede with 
the Lords of Greyhawk to allow the cooks 
to return to the surface. 

Wait until the party notices that Mentu 






^ 7 = 







is not present. Then one of the cooks will 
wonder about him. "He toid us to hide, 
and he'd take care of you," says Larifyne. 
"Where did he go?" 

At this cue, the big fireplace slides 
away and Mentu makes his dramatic en- 
trance. With him are any doughple- 
gangers activated earlier by the party 
(see area 13). He also has two gummy 
werebear guards for each member of the 
party who refused to carry one of the 
loaves in that encounter, and one each for 
the three cooks and Poppinfarsh. 'Tm 
right here," says Mentu, "and now I will 
slay you all! Then my edible army will 
march on the Upper World!" The in 
traders then attack the party. 

Each doughpleganger attempts to en 
gage its original, and the werebears at 
tack the others. Mentu stays out of direct 
combat as long as possibie and uses his 
special mind-fileting power on the party, 
redudng their concentration and ability to 
fight. He stops concentrating only if di- 
rectly engaged in combat and wounded. 
The doughplegangers and Mentu fight to 
the death. The guards, however, surren 
der if Mentu is killed or captured. 

Role play the combat for maximum fun 
and excitement. The cooks and Poppin 
farsh should be able to hold their own 
against one guard each with no trouble, 
hitting them with their magical utensils or 
throwing things at them. If one of the 
party finishes off his foe too quickly, make 
it necessary for that person to rescue one 
of the cooks or Poppinfarsh to keep 
things interesting. Bring in more gummy 
werebear guards if you need to-there is 
an endless supplv available. 

If, on the other hånd, the party seems 
overwhelmed, the cooks and Poppinfarsh 
can finish off their foes quickly and then res 
cue their rescuers. If the characters earlier 
left the decanter of endless lemonade run- 
ning somewhere, this would be a good time 
to bring a flood of lemonade, ice, and float- 
ing slices of lemon in to sweep everyone off 
their feet and break Mentu's concentration. 
The more outrageous this combat is, the 
better. In the end, however, the party will 
no doubt triumph over the nasty meat-thing 
and his hordes. (Surely your party is not so 
inept as to be beaten by crummy candy 


monsters?) 

Doughplegangers (number varies): AC 
5; MV 9"; HD as the original; hp as the 
original; Dmgld6orby weapon;THACO 
15; SA nil; SD nil; AL N. The doughple 
gangers are a variant of the dough golem 
and Gingerbread Man formulae. Mentu 
tricked the cooks into making a set of 
loaves, which he then hid until forgotten. 
These loaves have the potential to de- 
velop into living forms because of the 
magical utensils' connection with the 
Random Monster Generator. Once 
touched by a living being, then baked, 
they become duplicates of the person 
who touched them. 

A baked doughpleganger has the gen 
eral appearance of its original and has hit 
points and weapon abilities to match. 
Mentu has provided candy cane dupli 
cates of the appropriate weapons as well, 
although the weapons do not duplicate 
magical abilities. Doughplegangers have 
no spell abilities. They have only their 
natural armor class to protect them, 
though they appear to be wearing the 
same armor as their originals. A dough 
pleganger above all wants to kill its origi 
nal, and will fight its original to the death 
before tuming to any other foes. 

Area 25: Molenhowad's Room 

This is a bare little cubicle. with a bed, 
desk. and large closet full of identical 
white pants, tunics, aprons and hats. 
Dirty dothes tossed on the floor of the 
closet magically clean themselves and 
hang themselves up, thanks to Galo- 
mohgen's magic. The attached privy also 
is magically self-deaning. 

Area 26; Larifyne's Room 

Similar to area 25, including the magical 
closet. The walls are lined with shelf after 
shelf of cookbooks. Many are truly odd, 
like "Trollburgers: The Never-Ending 
MeaT and 'T001 Wavs to Prepare Yellow 
Mold." 

Area 27: Kurlenshembes's Room 

Just like the other two, except that 
empty food containers dog every nook 


and cranny. Under the bed can be found a 
couple of dozen comic books featuring 
"Captain Koala" and "ZapMan." 

What's for Dessert? 

With Mentu destroyed and his crea- 
tions dealt with, the cooks are grateful for 
the party s help in exposing his plotting. 
They make a great ceremony of present- 
rag the party with their greatest trea- 
sure, a set of heavy gold-decorated cook 
pots that are worth 1,200 gp. These are 
very bulky and heavy, and weigh about 
100 Ibs., counting the trunk in which they 
are kept. The cooks fix a snack for the 
party, then propose that they take a skin 
of wine to Galomohgen's tomb. 

When Galomohgen is summoned by 
filling his gobiet, he thanks the PCs for 
their help. (Heaven help them if they've 
hurt the cooks! Galomohgen may haunt 
them forever, or at least until they per 
form some sort of task to redeem them 
selves!) He confirms that the magical 
utensils are trapping the power of the 
Random Monster Generator. He re- 
moves the magic from the items with a 
wave of his hånd. At this point, all the 
creations except Poppinfarsh cease to 
exist. 

If the party promises to see the cooks 
safely back to Castle Greyhawk and ob- 
tain a pardon for them (which will be 
granted swiftly, as no one even remem- 
bers the cooks anymore), Galomohgen 
will show the party a secret button that 
causes his marble vault to move aside. 
revealing a hidden corridor. The tunnel 
moves past an odd section of smooth wall 
that glows with a mild pearly light to a 
stairway leading down. 

Galomohgen then retums to his final 
rest, and his gobiet vanishes with him. 
Poppinfarsh decides to return to the Up 
per World and remam with the cooks. 
Once the party has helped the cooks, 
they may use this level as a base camp for 
explorations deeper into the dungeons. 
This provides the party with food and wa- 
ter and a relatively safe place to rest, at 
least until monsters start wandering in 
from the other levels. 


43 








H Level 4: 
ike up 

The fourth dungeon level of Greyhawk 
Castle is designed as a challenge for 
about six PCs of 7th-8th experience 
le vels. Although this level need not be 
played before attempting the dungeon's 
lower le vels. the PCs may gain some ad- 
vantage if they attain this level's magical 
prize first. 

The Dungeon Masters Guide, the 
Player's Handbook, the Dungeoneer's 
Sunival Guide, Monster Manuals I and 
II, and the FIEND FOLIO " tome are 
necessary to play this level. Other 
AD&D(r) game manuals are not required 
but may be used as desired. 

DM's Information 

The builders of Castle Greyhawk and 
its dungeon took great precautions 
against the eventuality that their crea- 
tions would get out of hånd. For this pur- 
pose, they created Ye Secrete Tome of 
Inestimable Knowledges and carefully hid 
it on the dungeon's fourth level. 

The tome was supposed to be used 
only in case of an emergency, such as 
huge hordes of monsters invading the 
castle. Although it is centuries old, the 
items magical effect is to provide current 
and useful secrets (for details, see page 
53). 

The Herzog Akitrom knows of the 
Tome and its potential value, but until 
now he has never seen a need for its use. 
For all he knows. it could be just a one- 
use item. 

The Adventure 

To get the party to investigate dungeon 
level four. set up the folio wing scenario: 

Somewhere in the castle's Citadel Un 
ion (where the adventurers reside) a 
scream echoes, loud enough to drown 
out even the 24-hour (no waiting) bar 
fight. When the PCs arrive, a group of 
very attractive and obviously quite 
wealthy young men and women (cour- 
tiers on a holiday-including the lovely, 
but menace-prone princess Risotta) are 
being menaced by three of the most grue- 
some horrors yet seen. Unless dis- 


theRe's no pLace 


tracted, these creatures will soon have a 
yummy snack that builds bodies in twelve 
disgusting wavs. Any nearby low-level 
castle guards are already just smears on 
the wall. 

For this scenario, the DM must make 
up three monsters from the Random 
Monster Generator. All three should be 
of the icky-awful variety and have at least 
one special ability. Two of them have 7 
Hit Dice, the biggest (and ickiest) will 
have 10 HD and at least two special abili- 
ties. During the fight, the monsters will 
go out of their way to trash up the place. 

Herzog Akitrom the Merely Worried is 
distraught. Never have monsters actually 
invaded the castle in such force. A balu- 
chiterium in the dining hall is one thing, 
but such ickyness in the Citadel Union is 
altogether untoward. Something is seri- 
ously wrong down in the dungeon. 
Maybe it's time to get out the dungeon's 
secret instruction manual. 

In response to questions of "Why 
didn't you give this to us before?" "What 
secret instruction manual?" or just 
"Huh?" Herzog Akitrom will explain that 
he doesn't actually have the manual, just 
instructions on how to find it. Actually, it 
never really seemed all that important 
before. 

From a secret compartment in the cas 
tle's wine cellar, a crumbling wooden box 
is brought forth. In it are instructions on 
how to find the entrance to the fourth 
dungeon level (which, coincidentally, is 
the same door the monsters just came 
from) and a sparkling skeleton key carved 
from a single ruby-one of the Tbme 's 12 
gemstone keys (this key checks in at 
about 5,000 gp). Unfortunately, what ap- 
parently were at least a dozen pages con- 
ceming the Tome's defenses have been 
reduced by centuries of neglect to "and 
rememberest thou to looketh out for 
ye..." 

"Of course," the Herzog harrumphs, 
"If you ist not interested in retuming mit 
der Tome und basking in glory und riches, 
dose odder adventurers may be inter 
ested in making an easy hundred 
'tousand or so gold pieces." 


Area 1: The Entryway from 
Anywhere 

The stair down from the castle (or 
down or up from any other dungeon level 
or darkened passage) ends at a locked 
door just outside area 2. 


The stair ends at an eight-foot- 
diameter circular stone door carved 
and painted in the likeness of a huge 
jack o' lantem face. Magical light 
streams from its eyes, nose, and 
mouth. On the pumpkin face's fore- 
head is a carved sign that reads: "Are 
You Prepared for Etemal Autumn?" 

To the left of the door is a familiar- 
looking patch of opalescent wall. 


Deep in the recesses of the jack o' lan 
tem's mouth is a keyhole that. once un- 
locked, will open the door. The key 
provided by the castle owners (or any of 
the Tome keys) will unlock the door. Any 
attempt to pick the lock, or use any other 
type of key (including a magical key) will 
cause the trapped mouth to rapidly shut 
and open again (doing2dl0 damage to the 
violator who fails to make a Dexterity 
Check). The door is wizard locked (as by 
a 12th level magic-user). A magic mouth 
spell shrieks "trick-or-treat, trick-or- 
treat!" 

If the door is forced, all orifices on the 
pumpkin face belch eight-foot-long 
tongues of magical fire while the magic 
mouth spell shrieks "trick-or-treat, trick- 
or-treat!" The flames do 14 points of 
damage to characters who do not save 
vs. spell (the effects are similar to a glypb 
of war ding). 

Characters who make the saving throw 
take half damage. 


44 






















Area 2: Ye Secrete Tome of 

Inestimable Knowledges 

The room beyond the jack o' lantern 
door is plain and unadomed except for 
a tapestry on the far wall, a small sign 
next to it and a door mat beneath it and 
a pile of pumpkins in the comer, 
coated lightly in frost. The tapestry 
depicts angelic beings walking up and 
down a glowing stair case that ascends 
toward a heavenly glow. Inscribed 
above the stair is the motto "Be Pre- 
pared." 

The sign next to the tapestry reads 
as follows: 

"Ereh eb ey eterces emot of 
elbamitseni segdelwonk." 

The door mat says, "Welcome." 


Beneath the door mat is a sapphire 
gemstone key. another of the 12 (hey, 
where else would anyone keep a 4,000- 
gp sapphire key?). The pumpkins are 
here solely for color. 

Behind the tapestry is a vault door with 
12 key holes arranged in a three-by-four 
pattem. To open the door, at least seven 
of the Tome Keys must be inserted and 
tumed, each key within 30 seconds of the 
previous key. 

If any other attempt is made to open on 
the vault door or if the party pulis aside 
the tapestry and does nothing to open the 
door (for at least a minute), then IT hap 
pens. 

IT is the following: 


Everything (inciuding tapestries, wel 
come mats, pumpkins, stupidly enci- 
phered signs, walls, ceilings, the room 
with the pumpkin door...just every 
thing) disappears and the floor rips 
open loudly like overstressed paper, 
and you fali into swirling mist and fail 
and fali and fall.... 


Go to area 2A. 


Area2A: ...and fall and fall.... 


The mist parts and you seem to be fall- 
ing just above tree tops. The air is 
chilly and leaves show the brilliant 
goids, oranges, and reds of autumn at 
its peak. The autumnal forest extends 
as far as you can see above and below 
you. It also seems to surround you like 
you're falling through the inside of a 
tube or shaft. Through the treetops, 
you glimpse piles of raked leaves and 
bushels of ripe apples. The branches 
sting as you fall through them. 


If the PCs wish, they can fall forever. 
However, the sting of the branches in- 
flicts 1 point of damage every two rounds 
of falling. Eventually, this will batter a 
character to death. 

The PCs can stop themselves by grab- 
bing on to tree branches (a Dexterity 
Check to grab and a Strength Check to 
hold on), lassoing branches (only a Dex- 
terity Check if the rope is tied to the PCs, 
otherwise it's just as if they grabbed at 
branches), casting web spells between 
the branches ahead of them. using 
feather fall to slow their rate of descent, 
any flying magics to control their descent 
or anything that would reasonably work. 

Assume that each round the PCs faU 
1,000 feet regardless of physics. So if it 
takes five rounds for all characters to 
come to a complete stop, they will be 
strung out over about a mile of territory 
on encounter map 4. The first PC to stop 
always stops at area 6. 

Area 3: Yuck 

If the players are running out of hit 
points because they can't figure a way to 
stop falling, then warm up the 'ol deus ex 
machina (an improbable plot device used 
to resolve a tangled situation). Unfortu- 
nately, the only one available at the time 
is a large, bloated blob (the inflated ego of 
something with little to be proud of). 
Needless to say, the goo is unpleasant. 


Below you, and on a collision course 
with you, is a huge, writhing, bloated 
mass of dark gelatinous goo. 


If the PCs attempt to destroy the goo, 
treat it as a super-dooper ochre jelly. 
Subsequent contact (collision) will result 
in damage (each colliding character in- 
flicts ld6 damage to the goo). 

Inflated Ego (ochre jelly): AC 8; MV 
3": HD 12; hp 45; #AT 2; Dmg 3d4; 
THACO 10; SD lightning divides crea- 
ture into smaller blobs; SZ XL ("Holy 
Cow, Get a Load of That!"). 

The impact with the smelly goo causes 
it, the disgusted PCs, and a small flock of 
pigeons to careen into disgusting entan- 
glement with the tree tops, leaving the 
party hanging on huge stringers of mucus 
a few feet above the ground. Unfortu- 
nately, their Charisma scores are re- 
duced by 2d4 until they can properly 
bathe (if they do not remove the goo 
within 48 hours, reduce Charisma by 1 
point permanently). The party is to- 
gether on encounter map 4. 

Area 4: The Upcountry 

To reach the ground. the party must 
climb down the tree limbs. (Note: The 
first PC to land is assumed to be at en 
counter 6 and follows directions given 
there.) A non-thief can climb down a tree 
at 30'/round (or about three rounds to 
reach the ground). A thief climbs twice as 
fast. Thieves climb at their normal climb- 
ing skili plus a tree bonus. Non-thieves 
climb at a base climbing skiil of 40% plus 
the tree bonus. The tree bonus is 20% 
(characters in metal armor are 
-15, those in leather or padded armor 
are - 5 and those in plate mail of any kind 
cannot climb at all). Characters who fail to 
make their climbing roil take ld6 of dam 
age for each full 10% by which their roli 
exceeds their climbing chance, minimum 
of ld6 damage. 

Once the party is all down, they find 
themselves in the endless expanse of the 
Etemal Autumn Woods (area 4). Al- 
though the woods continue on endlessly 
in every direction, its major landmarks 


46 









are repeated. Assume that when the 
party leaves one edge of map 4, they en- 
ter again on the opposite edge (though 
foes encountered are left behind). 

Even though the landscape appears 
level from where the party stands, the 
Cardinal directions here are not north, 
south, east and west-they are up, down 
and sideways (right or left). Characters 
move sideways at their normal speeds. 
Characters move up at half their normal 
rate (unless flying) and feel as if they are 
climbing a steep hiil. Characters move 
down at double their normal rate, as if 
running down a steep hili. Once they be- 
gin to move down, it is hard to stop (Dex- 
terity Check required) without falling 
down. Characters move diagonally up at 
3/4 normal speed and diagonally down at 
11/2 times normal. 

The PCs can see three hexes (3,000 
feet) in all directions. Food is plentiful 
here (fali is harvest time). 

Meanwhile, the servants of Voyeux are 
on the move. Make an encounter check 
on the following chart for every five 
hexes of travel. 

Of the fixed encounters, encounter 7 
cannot occur until the party has met Ver- 
ticulous Vibratiuncie (encounter 5), En 
counters 11A and 11B are airbome. 


Encounter Table 

D20 

Roil Result 

I- 9 Nothing 

10 A random monster 

II- 13 Flail Snail: AC 4; MV 6*"; HD 6; 

hp 35; #AT 12*; Dmg ld8/ 
tentacle; THACO 13; SA/SD Its 
shell causes a special magic 
resistance-40% chance of a spell 
malfunction, 30% chance of spell 
working normally, 20% chance of 
failure, 10% chance of spell af- 
fecting someone else (usually the 
PC nearest the snail). The hasted 
flail snail is smashing its way 
through the woods, mace-like 
tentacles a biur as they mow 
down trees before it. It searches 
for the PCs and attempts to close 
with them. Killing the snail sum 
mons the levitraitors (see below). 

14-15 3 Garbugs (violet): AC 5; MV 6" I 
9"; HD 3 + 1; hp 17. 19, 21; AAT 
2 and 6; Dmg Id6/ld6/par- 
alyzation; THACO 16; SA Paraly- 
zation from tentacle attacks. 
These flying purpie lobsters with 
yellow claws harry the party. On a 
d8 roil of 7-8, the levitraitors are 
near enough to hear the commo- 
tion. 

16 Levitraitors. Through the forest, 
the party can see a group of four 
men in oriental garb floating 
above the trees, obviously 
searching the woods for some- 
thing. These are former adven 
turers, now the servants of the 
wizard Voyeux (see encounter 19 
for details). They are searching 
for the party to prevent them 
from gaining more keys and the 
Tome. The flail snail and garbugs 
are their allies. If the party fights 
them here, the garbugs join the 
battie in round three and the flail 
snail joins the battie in round 
seven. 

17-20 Verticulous Vibratiuncie (see en 
counter 5). 


Area 5: Why is up? 


You encounter an uptight little man 
wandering around in the black robes of 
a university professor. Oblivious to 
the world, he is up to his nose in a 
scroll of some sort. Something crys- 
talline dangies on a cord at his waist. 


Of course the "something crystalline" 
is a gemstone key, a 6,000-gp emerald 
gemstone key to be exact. It is in the pos- 
session of Verticulous Vibratiuncie, a 
strange little philosopher who has been 
wandering through Eteraal Autumn for 
what seems like...well...an etemity. If 
distracted from his reading he will look 
the party straight in the eyes and ask, 
"Why is up?" 

Like all philosophers, deep thinkers, 
and sports broadcasters, he is serious 
and thinks that his question is a reason- 
able one. Any reasonable answer wilJ do: 
"Without up, there would be no down," 
or "Without up, we would have nothing 
to see when we tilted our heads back," or 
"The sky gods would be out of a job," etc. 
If insulted, ignored, orattacked, Verticu 
lous begins to ooze tar from his pores and 
sprout wings as he polymorphs into a 
farastu (tarry) demodand and makes the 
party pay for their uppity attitude. 

Tarry Demodand: AC -1; MV 15"/ 
30"; HD 11: hp62; #AT3; Dmg ld6 + l/ 
ld6 + l/3d4; THACO 10; SA spell 
powers and sticky skin that makes any 
object it strikes or that strikes it have a 
5% chance of sticking; SD immune to 
nonmagical weapons, fear, illusion, acid, 
and poison. half damage from cold and 
fire; MR 15% 

If the party answers his question he 
thanks them and goes on his way, then 
stops and says "Was there something 
else?" If the party asks for the gemstone 
key, he will continue to ask questions like 
"Sideways-faet or fiction?" and "If 
there were no down, would there be an 
up? " If the party answers with something 
reasonable again. he is amiable to trade 
the key for something (preferably food 
other than apples). Again, uppityness 
brings out the demodand in him. 







Area 6: Up the Down Staircase 


You find the ruins of a grand staircase. 
No building, no upper floors, just a 
grand staircase. Next to it is a histori- 
cal marker that reads: "On this site 
...oh, about an etemity or so ago...the 
upwardly mobile young upstart, Verti- 
culous Vibratiuncle, built the first 
stair, symbofizing the belief that the 
only way out of Etemal Autumn is up." 


From this point, if they look up, the 
PCs should be able to see a glowing door 
hanging at least 500 feet in the air above 
them. Above the door in glowing red let 
ters is the word "EXIT." 

Area 7: And She's Buying a 
Stairway to... 

This encounter can only occur after the 
party has encountered Verticulous Vibra 
tiuncle. It then occurs within ld3 hexes of 
movement thereafter. 

If the party descends the well (area 9) 
and opens the door at the bottom, the 
drop down to the ground is 500 feet. 


A small wooden hut stands next to a 
shiny metal box with a door in it. the 
brightly glowing sign above both of 
them proudly proclaims "Ascendus's 
Scandent Coin-Op Acclivity." The en- 
tire affair is surrounded by many glow 
ing, blinking, and flashing arrows, all 
pointing skyward. The floating exit 
door is clearly visible from here. 


The hut belongs to Ascendus, a 
smartly dressed little grippli (a 2 l k foot 
tall tree frog-like humanoid) smoking a 
big cigar and talking like a gangster. "Up 
good people? Up? Only a coin, one coin 
will take you up," he says with a froggy 
grin. 

Ascendus the grippli: AC 9; MV 9" I 
15"; HD 1 + 1; hp 7: #AT 1; Dmg ld4; 
THACO 16: SA surprise on 1-4 
Ascendus's Scandent Coin-Op Accliv 
ity is a coin-operated stairway. To oper 
ate, the PCs must insert a coin (a silver 
piece) into the slot in the door. The door 


then opens and a single step is visible (but 
only through the door). A second coin re- 
ceptacle sprouts from the step. The cost 
for the next step is another silver piece. 
This continues for each step. However, 
steps 11 through 20 cost two sp each, 
steps 21 through 30 cost three sp. and so 
on up to step 101 at the glowing door 
which costs 11 sp (for a grand total of 561 
sp). 

However, each step onl> lasts 20 sec- 
onds if the step beyond it is not pur- 
chased. Thus it is possible to lose ground 
if delay is incurred. 

If the party does not have sufficient sil 
ver pieces (only silver works), Ascendus 
will make change (he always cheats by 
ld3 sp/gold piece). If caught, he is 
shocked and aghast and quickly makes up 
the difference. 

The EXIT door only opens with a 
1,000-gp citrine gemstone Tome key 
possessed by Ascendus the grippli). As 
cendus couldn't part with the key for less 
than 5,000 gp. 

After step 30, begin rolling an en 
counter check on ld20 each 10 steps. 

I- 10 No encounter 

II- 16 The party has been sighted by the 

Levitraitors (see area 4) 

17-20 A nasty random monster is either 
flying up or climbing the stair be- 
hind the party. 

Area 8: Pearly Gates 


Shimmering like mother-of-pearl, an 
opalescent panel stands upright be- 
tween a pair of lustrous posts. 


This is one of the gates from the Ran 
dom Monster Generator on level 12. If it 
is touched. roli ld6. On a roli of 1-2, a 
random monster steps through. 

Area 9: Upwelling 

The exit from map 4 opens onto a 10- 
foot-diameter, dark, cylindrical shaft (a 
well) made of mortared fkid stone and 
filled with fresh water to a depth of four 
feet. A strong current runs through the 
water. If the party looks up, they can see 


a dim light. 

If the party climbs up the slippery stone 
shaft (the 50-foot-deep well can be 
climbed only by thieves, at the rate of six 
feet per round, with a 10 times normal 
chance of falling). 

An opening in the side of the shaft 30 
feet up leads to encounter 13, the slime 
slide. The top of the well opens onto the 
paved stone floor of area 12. 

The bottom of the well feels pebbley. If 
the PCs check it, they find treasure: 
2,000 cp, 300 sp, 500 gp, three gems 
(2,000 gp each), a 1,500-gp jade dog 
sculpture, chain mail +1, a mace of dis- 
ruption, and a topaz Tome key (4,000 gp). 

Let the party bob for goodies for four 
rounds. On the fifth, somebody grabs a 
tentacle (or vice versa). Regardless, on 
the fifth round in the well, eight tentacles 
come up out of the water and attack the 
PCs (use giant squid statistics). 

8 Giant squid tentacles: AC 7; MV Nil; 
HD 12; hp 10 per tentacle; #AT 8; Dmg 
ld6 (x8) + 2d6 constriction on subse- 
quent rounds; THACO 9; SA constriction 

Area 10; Upfitter's Emporium 


Multicolor fights proclaim the en- 
trance to "Upfitter's Emporium, spe- 
cializing in all that's fit to go up and 
stay up." Through the glass you can 
see a vast array of bottles, ropes, 
spikes, wings, cloaks, boots, and 
something moving around. 


This is a store that contains items use- 
ful to the PCs in their upward quest. Of 
course they are all hideously expensive. 
Upfitter's Emporium reappears later in 
the adventure to allow the adventurers to 
restock. but each time the prices go up. 
The proprietor, Garbug Upphitter (pro- 
nounced Up-fitter) is an intelligent violet 
garbug. Around his neck is violet gamet 
U key (worth 1,000 gp and on sale now 
for only 3.000 gp). 

Garbug Upphitter: AC 5; MV 6"/9"; 
HD 3 +1: hp 25; H AT 2 and 6; Dmg ld6/ 
ld6/paralyzation: THACO 16; SA tenta 
cle hits paralyze 

Upfitter's seils both normal and magical 


















items. The normal items are to be had at 
a mere 10 times their usual cost. How- 
ever, each time the PCs visit Upfitter's, 
the cost is double the previous time. 

Terms and Credit 
Garbug Upphitter prefers to take the 
PCs' magical valuables in trade for his 
items. He will take promissory notes but 
States that the PCs will owe double the 
sum borrowed upon repayment. Magical 
items are initially for sale at the prices 
given in the DMG. However, they may 
be rented for l/10th that amount (retum- 
able intact at the end of the adventure). 

50' of rope: 2 gp 

Iron spikes: 10 cp each 

10' pole: 30 cp 

Hammer: 1 gp 

Grappling hook: 10 gp 

12' Wooden ladder: 20 gp 

Leather gloves: 5 gp 

Wmgs ofOying (1): 7,500 gp 

Gauntlets of swimming and climbing 

(1): 10,000 gp 

Ebony fly (1): 5,000 gp 
Serpentine owl (1): 4,000 gp 
Broom ofOying (1): 10,000 gp 
Carpet ofOying (1): 25,000 gp 
Boots of levitation (1): 15,000 gp 
Ring offeather falling (2): 5,000 gp 
Podon ofOying* (7): 750 gp 
Potion of levitation* (6): 400 gp 
Potion of diminution* (4): 500 gp 
Bag of winds (1): 5,000 gp 
This bag contains wind. When opened a 
stiff breeze blows out, equivalent to the 
MU spell, gust of wind. 

Djinn bottie: 8,000 gp 
Opening this bottle (once per week) 
summons a commandable djinn for sbc 
tums. Djinn: AC 4; MV 9"/24"; HD 
7 + 3; hp 37; MT 1; Dmg 2d8; THACO 
13; SA create whirlwind 
Flask of Air Elementals: 6.000 gp 
Opening the flask summons a command 
able air elemental for three tums (once per 
week). Air elemental: AC 2; MV 36"; HD 
8; hp 45; MT 1; Dmg ldlO; THACO 10; 
SA whirlwind; SD +2 or better weapon to 
hit 

Magical Rope: 1,000 gp 

This one-use rope works only in the 


confines of level 4. Throwing it up in the 
air allows the party to escape or avoid one 
encounter (see encounter 11). 

* Items marked with an asterisk are for 
sale only. 

All displayed items are fake, but repre 
sent what is available. Upphitter will ex- 
plain each if asked. All the real items are 
stored out of sight. 

Killing the garbug causes the store to 
collapse in on itself and all goes dark. 
When light retums, the characters are 
once again falling across the Etemal Au- 
tumn landscape (area 2A). 

Garbug Upphitter and a few friends re 
turn (even if killed) later in the adventure 
to collect any rented items (see en 
counter 21). 

Encounter 11: Using the Magical 
Rope 

This encounter occurs if the party buys 
the magical rope from Upfitter's Emporium 
or if they climb the rope in room 16D. The 
PCs can use the rope to bypass any one en 
counter. Whenever magical rope is thrown 
upward, read the following: 


The rope seems to fly upward, stiffen- 
ing into an easily climbable pole that 
fades into nothingness at the top. 


If they climb up, read the following: 


You climb upward into thickening, damp 
mist. Suddenly you break free into 
bright light on top of a fluffy cloud. As 
soon as you are up, a fiery biast strikes 
the cloud, destroying a huge tract of 
fluffy real estate and barely missing you. 
Less than 1,000 feet away, a red dragon 
wheels about for another pass and, as 
luck would have it, a black gemstone 
key hangs around its neck. 


The black opal Tome key is worth 
3,500 gp. The dragon will not consider 
giving it up. 

The cloud is roughly 100 feet in diame 
ter and hilly. It is like walking on a soft 


sponge. It begins at location 11A above 
map 4. 

Far below the cloud, the endless forest 
of Etemal Autumn can be seen. 

All around the PCs are other clouds 
similar to their own. Some even have oc- 
cupants (roli random monsters if the PCs 
move to these clouds). 

If the party surveys their surroundings 
closely, read this: 


Several miles away is a flashing sign 
that brightly States "EXIT" as it 
hangs above a shimmering door set 
into the side of another cloud. 


The Exit cloud is located at position 
11B above map 4. 

If the PCs did not buy the bag of winds. 
djinn bottle, or air elemental Oask, their 
cloud is probably motionless, a sitting 
duck. 

If the PCs possess any magical item or 
can command any creature that can make 
wind, the cloud is class E maneuverability 
and has a speed of 9". 

The red dragon's fire will punch a hole 
20 feet in diameter all the way through 
the cloud. The hole reseals in two 
rounds, but the cloud loses 5 feet of diam 
eter. 

Red dragon: AC -1; MV 9"/24"; HD 
10; hp 60: MT 3; Dmg Id8/ld8/3dl0; 
THACO 10; SA breath weapon 

If the party causes its cloud to collide 
with another cloud, 1 to 3 10d6 dice light- 
ning bolts are generated. They hit any- 
thing within 300 feet (to give the hint, 
have the PCs' cloud accidentally collide 
with another). 

If characters fali off the cloud (whether 
dead or alive) or if the dragon is killed, the 
bodies drop until they are once again fall 
ing endlessly over the crisp orange tree- 
tops of Etemal Autumn. It is possible to 
bring the PCs' cloud low enough to re 
cover lost friends or key s. The dragon's 
beliy is enerusted with 50,000 gp worth 
of gold coins and gems (it takes one tum 
to remove 5,000 gp worth). 

If the PCs use the magical rope to come 
to tlus encounter and then use the Exit 
door in the cloud, it takes them to the en- 


49 










counter that would follow next in se- 
quence after the encounter they use the 
rope to avoid. If they climbed the rope in 
area 16D, they come out of a closet in the 
back of Upfitter's in area 16E. 

The PCs may also retrace their steps 
through Etemal Autumn (area 4), if they 
so desire. 

Area 12: Flying Buttresses 


You seem to be standing next to the 
walls of a great cathedral. The black- 
ness here is pushed back only slightly 
by the harsh light from the Upfitter's 
sign and the warm glow that filters 
down from the stained glass Windows 
above. Looking up even farther. be- 
yond the multi-colored glass is the 
faint shimmering rectangular outline 
beneath the shining letters E, X. I, 
and T. 


There are three places to go here. Up 
fitter's (area 10), up the cathedral walls 
to the exit door, and out into the intense 
darkness, away from cathedral. 

The darkness is flecked with pairs of 
pinpoint glows. like eyes. Their location 
is indistinct, and they cannot be reached. 
Light of any kind only functions within 50 
feet of the cathedral. If the PCs head into 
the darkness, it is like w'alking downhill. 
Each round the PCs spend in the dark roil 
ld20. On a roll of 10 or more. an en 
counter with a monster created by the 
Random Monster Generator occurs. 
Monsters that attack the PCs always at- 
tack with surprise. If the party wants to 
go back to the cathedral, roll ld8 for the 
direction they walk each round. Only a 
result of 5 will return them to the lighted 
area again. 

Climbing or flying up through the flying 
buttresses that support the cathedral 
wall is a challenge. Climbing characters 
treat the walls as smooth but cracked. A 
thief must lead the way and set ropes. 
Flying characters must make a Dexterity 
Check each round of flight to avoid collid- 
ing with the three-dimensional maze of 
buttresses and pillars. A collision does 
ld3 damage and the character must make 


a second Dexterity Check to avoid falling. 

The back-lit glass panels depict 
dungeon scenes. The left-most window 
shows living food menacing victims. The 
center window is a huge blob in the cen 
ter of a web of pipes surrounded by 
smaller blobs and spiders. The right- 
most window depicts a fat orange-and- 
black striped cat with bulging eyes sitting 
on a black book, surrounded by a dozen 
multicolored keys. 

If the PCs examine this glass panel 
closely (within 10 feet), they see that one 
of the keys is not a picture, but is actually 
a Tome key made of fire opal (2,000 gp). 

To remove the key. the party must 
break the window. During the attempt. 
shadowy forms gather on the far side of 
the glass. When the glass breaks, six 
bony hånds on the ends of armored tenta- 
cles clutch and grab at anything nearby 
for two rounds. If they hit they pull in 
with an effective Strength of 21. Any hit 
to a tentacle causes it to retreat, but it in- 
flicts 2d6 damage to the attacker. 

6 Tentacles: AC -2; MV Nil: HD 10; 
hp N/A: #AT 6; Dmg special: THACO 
10; SA grab, SD hitting it causes attacker 
damage; MR 50% 

Anything or anyone pulled through 
must roll a successful saving throw vs. 
death ray or be shriveled down to charred 
bones and melted metal and then spat 
back out. Those who are dragged 
through but make their save are spat 
back after taking 5dl0 points of electrical. 
fire, cold, and acid damage and another 
6d6 points of falling damage if they hit the 
ground. The glass then melts together to 
seal the hole. 

Complicating matters here are the vi- 
cious gargoyles who guard the Exit. 
They attack once the characters reach 
the stained-glass window level. 

Gargoyles (2 per PC): AC 5: MV 9"/ 
15": HD 4; hp20each: #AT 4; Dmg ld3/ 
Id3/ld6/ld4; THACO 10: SD magical 
weapons needed to hit 

The Exit door here is very small. In 
faet, any character larger than a halfling 
must drink of potion of dinvnution before 
entering. The cathedral exit opens onto 
the lobby of the Hellivator (area 14). 


Area 13: Slime Slide 

The opening is an access into a five- 
foot-wide, five-foot-high, 25-foot-long 
passageway that ends in a locked wooden 
door. A brass plaque on the door says 
"Diamond Key Repository." The door 
can be picked, forced, or knocked at nor 
mal chances. Beyond the door, read the 
folio wing: 


The door opens onto a 10-by-15 foot 
room in which every surface is cov 
ered in damp moss. Ten feet away on 
the opposite wall is another moss- 
covered wooden door. Near the cen 
ter of the room is a moss-covered, 
box-shaped lump. 


Any attempt to open the door (which is 
false) or the box causes the entry door to 
slam shut and the floor to swing down like 
a trap door, dumping all in the room down 
a slimey, mossy slide to an arena on the 
fifth dungeon level-room 9. 

Carefully read the encounter key de- 
scription for this room on level 5 and tell 
the players what their characters see go- 
ing on in the arena, then read the follow- 
ing: 


As you peer past the pyrotechnic may- 
hem surrounding the golem and its 
foe, you glimpse a glowing red Exit 
sign above a faintly shimmering door. 
You also hear a magically mouthed 
message. "Waming to scarlet clear- 
ance intruders. The abacus has deter 
mined that you do not have proper 
security clearance for this area. Leave 
immediately or you risk premature 
termination. Thank you. The abacus is 
your friend. Have a nice day." 


If the PCs look behind them. the en- 
trance is (of course) gone. The marked 
exit they see takes the place of one of 
room 9's normal entrances. To reach it, 
the party must either cross or circle 
around the arena, risking fallout from the 
battie. 

The golem and its foe completely ig- 
nore the PCs. However, the destruction 
they huri like rain will affeet any caught 










within it (refer to the room 9 description 
for details). 

Once the PC s reach the exit, it is 
locked, completely unopenable. How- 
ever, the small sign spray-stenciled on 
the door gives a hint of what is required: 


"Emergency exit only. 

Use diamond key. 

-House Hacknslashi.'' 


If the PC s watch the iron golem, they 
see that a diamond Tome key (worth 
around 10,000 gp) is inserted about eight 
feet up its right leg. If they can manage to 
get to the golem and grab the key, it 
comes out easily. Unfortunately, it also 
tums the golem off. The angry orc inside 
the golem bails out and the attention of 
his titanic foe is tumed toward him and 
the other tiny humanoids in the arena. 

Should the PCs survive to reach the 
exit door. it opens onto an unseen closet 
in Upfitter's Emporium, which at this 
point is located just off whatever en- 
counter would have been logically next in 
sequence had the party not explored the 
passage leading to the slime slide. 

By the time the party returns to 
dungeon level 5, the iron golem is back in 
operation, but without the diamond key 
problem. You can also be sure that the orc 
in the golem will pav a little more atten 
tion to teeny humanoids in the arena. 

Area 14: Hellivator 


The door opens onto a smartly deco- 
rated room with a polished granite 
floor, gold trim everywhere. a ceiling 
painted to look like open sky and a pair 
of omate red and gold sliding doors on 
the opposite waD. Adjacent to the 
doors are two buttons. The one with 
an arrow pointing up is labeled "Ye Se- 
crete Tome of Inestimable Knowl- 
edges.'' The other with an arrow 
pointing down is labeled "Diamond 
and Amethyst Key s." However. what 
you thought to be a mirror is actually 
an opalescent panel set into the wall. 


The opalescent panel is a gate from the 
Random Monster Generator. Each time 
the PCs enter the Hellivator lobby, roil an 
encounter check on ld20. If the result is 
17 or greater, a monster walks through 
the panel. 

If either button is pressed, a loud ding 
sounds and the red and gold doors slide 
open to reveal a well-lit, 5-by-4 foot cubi- 
cle, also immaculately deoorated. There 
are three buttons inside, one up and two 
down. 

The doors close once the party enters 
(or after 30 seconds). If the party 
pressed the down arrow, the Hellivator 
immediately drops downward so fast that 
the party is knocked to the floor. The Hel 
livator does not stop until it reaches room 
10 on the 6th level. 

If they pressed the up button, there is a 
brief pause and then a ghostly face and 
torso pops out of the woodwork and 
spectrally whispers, "Going down?" as it 
reaches for the down arrow buttons. 

At this point both the DM and one of 
the players roil ld6. Subtract 1 from the 
player's roli. If the player's modified roli 
beats the DM's, the PC presses the but 
ton of his choice before the ghost can 
press one. If the DM's roil beats the play 
er's modified roli, the ghost presses one 
of the down buttons. If the difference is 
only 1 to 2 points, the Hellivator goes to 
room 9 on the 5th level. If the difference 
is 3 or greater, the Hellivator goes to 
room 10 on the 6th level. 

As the Hellivator drops, it becomes in- 
tensely hot and seems to drop forever. 
When it stops, the doors siide open with a 
ding. 

Room 9, Level 5: If the party has 
never been here before, go to encounter 
13 at the point the PCs enter the arena. 
The back wall slides forward to force the 
PCs out. If they have the diamond Tome 
key already. the arena is heavily scarred 
and cratered. A giant iron golem lies 
prone on the floor. If the PCs wish, they 
may try to pry magical devices from it. 
However, ldlO rounds after they enter. 
the iron golem's foe retums and begins to 
attack. The exit on the opposite wall is 
still the only way out and it opens onto the 
Hellivator lobby again. 


Room 10, Level 6: The doors open 
onto a library and cool dusty air replaces 
the parched heat of the Hellivator. As the 
doors open, the ghost reappears and 
whispers. "Sixth floor. Books. gastropod 
poetry, egos, and really bad dead things. 
Enjoy your stay." The back wall slides 
forward to force the PCs out and the Hel 
livator door seals tight. Only a keyhole 
remains. 

The room's other exits are also sealed. 
To get out, the PCs must find the ame 
thyst Tome key. It is between the pages 
of a book of poetry labeled Ode to the 
Ground Snails of Greyhawk. Vblume 7 by 
Snagiy Hairtooth. Only the amethyst key 
will reopen the Hellivator door. However, 
the door opens onto the Hellivator lobby 
again, as if they had just stepped out of 
the cathedra! exit. 

Going up: Should the PCs manage to 
do this. the Hellivator door dings open at 
encounter 16. 

Area 16: You and Your Little Dog 
Toto Too! 


The Hellivator doors open into a 
shabby. drab little room in what seems 
to be a shabby, drab little farmhouse. 
That is, except for the faet that a biting 
wind is howling through the open Win 
dows, the house seems to be spinning 
about madly and a green-skinned 
woman in black clothing is flying 
around the house on a broom stick and 
throwing balis of flame into the house 
and cackling at you. Otherwise. eve- 
rything appears to be normal. 


Miss Gulch, the woman on the broom 
of Oving. is a green hag who has the spe 
cial ability to huri an unlimited number of 
Melfs minute meteors at the rate of 
three per round (ld4 points of damage 
each) as she circles the house. This is in 
addition to her other innate powers. 

Green Hag: AC -2; MV 12"//12"; 
HD 9; hp 44; #AT 2; Dmg ld2+6/ 
ld2+6; THACO 12; SA spell powers; 
MR 35%. She can fire into any room once 
per round. 

The house seems to be spinning and 



















whirling in a gray misty area (actually the 
border area of the Ethereal plane). 

Four of the five rooms of the house 
each have ld4 ogres lounging around on 
its shabby, drab fumishings and laughing 
at the party's attempts to attack the 
green hag or avoid her attacks. The 
ogres move about in all the rooms as if 
gravity pulled toward the floor. 

Ogres (4-16): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4 + 1; 
hp 21 each; #AT 1: Dmg ldlO; THACO 
15 

The house consists of five rooms: 

A. Hellivator Room: Contains the 
red and gold Hellivator doors, ld4 ogres, 
and gravity toward floor. 

B. Dining Room: The room appears 
to have a level floor. However, the grav 
ity pulis toward the east wall. Another 
ld4 ogres are on the east wall. The floor 
feels like a steep slope. 

C. Bedroom: Gravity pulis toward the 
north wall. The floor is like a vertical wall 
to the PCs. A rope lies on the floor from a 
door in the north wall; ld4 ogres are 
lounging around on the north wall. If the 
party climbs the rope through the door, 
go to encounter 11. 

D. Upfitter's Emporium Redux, 
Too: Yes. it's Upfitter's again. No ogres 
here. 

E. The room with no ceiling: The 
small, drab room has no ceiling. Instead, 
a wide shaft extends upward as far as the 
PCs can see. In the center of the room is 
a fiery orange gemstone Tome key (made 
of jacinth, 4,000 gp). If the party at 
tempts to retrieve the key, go to en 
counter 17. There are ld4 ogres here. 

Area 17; Updraft 

Beneath the shaft, gravity is reversed. 
Anyone under here who is not restrained 
in some way is automatically sucked up 
ward. Anyone holding onto something 
must make a Strength Check to resist be- 
ing sucked upward and then flung into the 
spherical arena (area 18). 


Area 18; Through the Air with 
the Greatest of Unease 

Encounter 17 flings the PCs upward 
into a 1,000-foot-diameter spherical 
arena. The opening of the shaft then 
closes to a mere five feet across. The 
PCs fail for 3d6 damage if they cannot 
stop themselves in some way. There is 
gravity on the walls of the sphere up to 
the "equator line." Opposite the entry 
shaft is a small five-foot opening with a 
ladder hanging down. This is the exit. 

Located around the equator are three 
equally spaced opaiescent random mon 
ster gates. Three rounds after the party 
enters, a group of levitraitors (see area 
19) enters through a gate and swoops 
down to attack the PCs. Every five 
rounds thereafter, make an encounter 
check (1-3 on ldlO) for more random 
monsters to come through the gates). 

The way out is up (to area 20). 

Encounter 19: Levitraitors 

The levitraitors are adventurers who 
have chosen to serve the wizard Voyeux 
(see level 12). Their mission here is to 
prevent characters from reaching the 
Tome. Use the adventurers from the cas- 
tle section of this module (the ones who 
compete against the party). Modify their 
statistics as necessary to make them all 
7th- and 8th-level characters. Although 
they are dutiful, they will not fight to the 
death if the situation turns ugly. Each 
levitraitor possesses one of the following 
magical items: wings of fiving. broom of 
flying, winged boots. ring of levitation, 
and fan-like swim fins (MV 9"). 

One levitraitor possesses a gemstone 
Tome key. a crimson coral key (800 gp). 

Area 20: There's No Place Like 
Tome 

The ladder up from the spherical arena 
ascends a 60-foot-long, five-foot-diam- 
eter shaft that ends in a locked trap door. 
Any one of the Tome keys will open this 
door. The trap door comes up beneath 
the welcome mat in area 2. If the charac 
ters use the seven keys needed to open 


the vault, read the following: 


The heavy vault door creaks open to 
reveal...a cat-a large, fat. orange- 
and-black striped cat with bulging, 
half-lidded eyes. It blinks at the light, 
scratches the key holes in its belly and 
says "Hi, I'm Ye Secret Tom. What's 
to eat?" 


The X.P. value for each Tom key re- 
trieved is equal to 25% of the gp value of 
the key. 

Encounter 21: The Game is Up! 

If the party has rented anything from 
Upfitter's and not retumed it, Garbug 
Upphitter retums to collect, along with 
six trolis. 

6 Troils: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 
32 each; #AT 3; Dmg Id4+l/ld4 + l/ 
2d4; THACO 13; SD regeneration 

If Garbug Upphitter is not paid here, he 
retums later in the adventure (usually the 
castle) to plague the adventurers with 
even larger groups of monsters. 


52 









Appendix 

Ye Secret Tom of 
Inestimable Knowledges 

No, it's not a typographical error. If you 
read encounter 20 you'l) see that this is 
indeed a tom, a tomcat that is. Tom is an 
intelligent, personable, gem-encrusted, 
animated magical construct in the form of 
a normal-sized, male house cat. On Tom's 
tummy are 12 keyholes, numbered 1 
through 12. When any of the 
Tome...er...Tom gemstone keys is in- 
serted into a numbered keyhole and 
turned (and Tom's belly has been 
scratched to his satisfaction), Tom re- 
cites the clue relating to the correspond- 
ing keyhole. As he recites, the key 
crumbles into dust (although if asked, he 
will redte the clue a second time without 
a key). 

Tom acts in most ways like a normal cat 
(demands petting, likes to play with 
string, chases mice, rubs legs. purrs, 
meows when startled. etc.). However, 
he also talks and wisecracks about char- 
acters' appearances or the quality of their 
skiils. The last comment he may ever 
make may well be ''Hey, watch it! Re- 
member, no Tom...no Inestimable 
Knowledges!" 

Still, if treated like a member of the 
party, he will use his other skiils and 
powers to aid them. 

Ye Secret Tom: AC -1; MV 15"; HD 
3; hp 18: #AT 1 combination daw/claw/ 
bite/rip; Dmg ld6 +special; THACO 
13*: SA attacks as a 7-HD monster, suc- 
cessful hit causes flesh and biood foe to 
lose one level of attack skiil per round un- 
til poison is negated or one hour, which- 
ever is sooner; SD same immunities as a 
stone golem: MR 15%, immune to all 
mental spells: gp value 40,000 gp; XP 
6,000 

Tom's special powers: In addition to 
those described above and his question- 
answering powers, Tom can hide in 
shadows, move silently, and climb like a 
15th-level thief. He can also use magical 
spells like a 9th-level illusionist (but must 
have access to an illusionist's spell books 
to leam any). 


Tom's Clues 

The keyhole number the key is in- 
serted into corresponds to the levels 
within the dungeon. Some levels have no 
clues. 

Level 1: No clue. 

Level 2: "The fun begins at midnight. 
The Boys are gonna party 'til they hit 
bigtime." 

Level 3: No clue 

Level 4: "The way out is up. But hey, 
you guys already know that, right?" 

Level 5: 

"The game never stops, 

The game never ends, 

Some you meet are enemies, 

And some you meet are friends. 

"Play by the rules, 

Whichever you may find. 

Then drive away The S", 

And the madness stays behind." 


Level 6: "If you hope to make your 
mark, you'd better trademark it first!" 

Level 7: No clue 

Level 8: No clue 

Level 9: "Look before you leap" 

Level 10: "Slime and bugs, ick and 
goo. They're pals of something bigger 
than you." 

Level 11: No clue 

Level 12: "Look before you cast," and 
"He's watching." 



53 










B Level 5: the name of 
he game 



Greyhawk Dungeon-Level 5 


Door R53 
Secret Door KOH 
Arch I Pi) 
Hiil EZI 
lllusionary Wall 1-=4 

Pool sa 

Glowing Wall 

Stalra I -*il 


Scale: 1 Square = 10 

o 


This level is designed for six to 10 charac- 
ters of 9th to lOth level. 

Setting 

Among the uninvited guests that have 
moved into the lord's dungeons are a 
group of wizards. Whether or not the Ran 
dom Monster Generator brought them is 
anyone's guess. Since multilevel, subter- 
ranean dungeons are every wizard's 
dream, this group has made itself at home. 

Of course, no wizard could be satisfied 
by merely being an occupant. Aware that 
there are other realities and parallel 
worlds, the wizards got together and at- 
tempted to conjure forth representatives 
from innumerable time periods and reali 
ties. 


Imagine their disappointment when, in- 
stead of massive armies, they were 
showered with brightly colored boxes 
made of strangely textured paper. Open- 
ing these boxes revealed odd books and 
dice of strange shapes. 

Possibly thinking that these were 
tomes of power, the wizards began trans 
lating the odd books using unsafe, forbid 
den spells of unpredictable results. Their 
hopes were shattered when they discov 
ered the books were rules for things 
called "role-playing games." Disgusted, 
they tossed the books to the monsters 
for them to eat. 

Ah, but here is where the unpredicta 
ble magics came in to play! Enhanced by 
the forbidden ancient magics, the rule 
books took on a life of their own, trans- 
forming the creatures' minds and physi- 


cal appearances to enable the games to 
be played on a level-wide scale. The 
games then retumed to the wizards' 
room. to stay close to their source of 
new-found life. Every attempt the wiz 
ards made to drive them away failed. 
However, they noticed that the games 
did no harm to them, so they let them be 
and resumed their quest for power. 

In order to properly play this level, 
bear the following things in mind. All 
creatures have been empowered to 
speak Common, whether or not they had 
the brains or even the vocal cords to do 
so in the first place. This does not mean 
that their intellects have been raised. All 
game systems are in competition with 
each other, but will probably not chase 
the PCs into another territory unless es- 
pecially irritated. 


54 



















Encounter Key 

After the adventurers descend the 
stairs from level four, they come up to a 
set of 10-foot-high double doors made of 
iron. The doors are unlocked. and the 
party can hear harmonious singing from 
within. The stairs continue down to level 
6 . 

Area 1 

This 40'-by-40' chamber is devoid of 
detail except for the brass doors on the 
east wall. Huddled in a circle in the middle 
of the room are 10 bearded men wearing 
tight blue pants witli small rivets on the 
pockets. They also wear odd short- 
sleeve shirts of bright colors and flimsy 
fabric. These shirts are donned by puUing 
them over one's head. Emblazoned on 
their chests are odd words ending with 
the letters "CON." There are odd- 
shaped dice scattered at their feet, and 
swords and axes in their hånds. 

When the PCs enter, the men stop 
singing, and wam the characters away, 
fear evident on their grizzled faces. They 
babble on and on about "monsters not ac- 
tin' like they should." 

These men were once proud adventur 
ers now reduced to the mental level of 
berserkers because of the horrifying 
things they saw. If the party refuses to go 
away, they attack in berserker fashion. 

Berserkers: AC 7; MV 12": HD 7; hp 
50: MT 2; Dmg ld8, ld6; THACO 13; 
AL N; They may attack once at +2 or 
twice at no bonus. They have no trea- 
sure. 

Area 2 

Anyone who listens at this door hears a 
grand commotion, with no recognizable 
words. The chamber is 100 feet by 60 
feet and filled with ruined fumiture. A 
white drape is hung over a 10-foot section 
of the east wall. 

In this room are five red imps, four or 
ange bugbears, three yellow gnolls, two 
green trolis, a blue dragon, an indigo 
cloud giant, and a blue storm giant. All 
have glassy eyes and chant in unison, 


"The abacus is your friend, serve the ab- 
acus, traitors are everywhere, trust no 
one!" 

The imps, bugbears, gnolls, and trolis 
carry hand-held crossbows. The giants 
carry ballistae. They all fire upon the 
party, the dragon using his lightning 
breath with no regard for his companions. 
Oddly enough, all the monsters except 
the dragon use only their hand-held 
weapons. 

They cannot be reasoned with. They 
shout "Traitors!" to the party and con 
tinue firing. In each comer of the room, 
where the ceiling meets the walls, there 
is a small golden orb which upon inspec- 
tion is found to be a wizard eye. 

Imps: AC 2; MV 6"/18"; HD 2 +2; hp 
16: MT 1: Dmg ld4 (bolt): THACO 16: 
AL LE; SD only magic weapons can hit, 
regenerates one hp per round, save as 7- 
HD creature. 

Bugbears: AC 5: MV 9"; HD 3 +1; hp 
20; MT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 16; AL 
CE. 

Gnolls: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 14: 
MT 1; Dmg ld4: THACO 16; AL CE. 

Trolls: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 34; 
MT 1; Dmg ld4: THACO 13; AL CE: 
SD Regenerate 3 hp per round, three 
rounds after being damaged. 

Blue Dragon: AC 2; MV 9"/24"; HD 
10; hp 50; MT 3; Dmg Id6/ld6/3d8; 
THACO 10; AL LE; SA Breath weapon: 
lightning. 

Cloud Giant: AC 2; MV 15"; HD 12 + 

1- 7; hp 67: MT 1; Dmg 3d6 (ballista); 
THACO 9; AL NE. 

Storm Giant: AC 1; MV 15"; HD 15 + 

2- 7; hp 77; MT 1; Dmg 3d6: THACO 8; 
AL CN; SD Immune to electricity. Note 
that this giant is unable to east spells. 

All these creatures are charmed by the 
high wizard who programs the abacus. 
They will defend the abacus to the death, 
and may even chase the party down the 
halls. 

Area 3: The Abacus Room 

The most dominant feature of this 50' 
x 60' room is the 60-foot-long abacus 
propped up against the south wall. This 
room is comfortablv fumished with a soft 


bed, work bench, desk, and wardrobe. 
Atop the desk is a crystal ball, which is 
somehow connected to the four wizard 
eyes in the previous room. 

From here Wes Tend, the game wizard. 
programs the abacus and oversees his 
eharmed followers as they root out trai 
tors. He uses his wizard eyes to see that 
they do not slip up. 

Wes Tend: ST 9, IN 18, WI14, DE 16, 
CO 10, CH 9; MU 11: AL CN; AC 2; MV 
12"; hp 26. Select spells for the wizard. 
He wears bracers of de fense, AC 6 and 
carries a staff of power with 16 charges. 
While exploring this level, Wes found a 
copy of a game and was charmed. and 
consequently eharmed some monsters to 
help him play. He is dressed in white and 
is quite paranoid. His treasure is under 
his bed in a wizard locked chest. It con- 
tains 500 pp, two diamonds worth 500 gp 
each, a pair of golden lion figurines, and a 
decanter of endless water. 

Area 4; Antechamber 

The stone doors to this 40'-by-60' 
chamber are locked. Freshly carved on 
the walls, close to the ceiling, are the 
words "The room of many marvels. 
Tarry at your own risk." Closer inspec- 
tion shows that the carvings are recent. 
The room is nicely decorated with expen- 
sive tapestries and soft, comfy sofas. An 
expensive platinum um worth 5,000 gp 
sits atop an ebony stand. If touched, a 
magic mouth screams out "It's clobberin' 
time!" repeatedly. This brings forth the 
occupants from the adjoining rooms. 

Area 5: The Amazing Driderman 

A huge male drider lives in this sparse 
chamber littered with corpses. He wears 
a red hood that covers his face from view. 
As he fights the party, he drones on and 
on about his sick aunt and finicky 
girlfriend. All who hear this must roil a 
saving throw vs. spell, allowing no bo 
nuses except Wisdom. If failed, the PC 
screams in disgust and recklessly 
charges Driderman and tries to strangle 
him, screaming "shut up, shut up!" re 
peatedly. Such PCs lose Dexterity bo- 


55 







nuses to Armor Class and cannot use 
spells. The drider has no treasure. 

Driderman: AC 3; MV 12": HD 6 + 6: 
hp 40; MT 1; Dmg ld8 long sword; 
THACO 13; AL CE; SA spells as a 7th- 
level MU 

Area 6: The Inedible Bulk 

A huge, green-tinted clay golem 
charges at the party. It has a mop of 
green hair and wears ugly purpie pants 
that look shredded. It has no treasure. It 
is permanentlv hasted. 

Clay Golem: AC 7; MV 7*; HD 11; hp 
50; #AT 2; Dmg 3dl0; THACO 10; AL 
N; SD struck oniy by blunt magical weap- 
ons 

Area 7: Da Ting 

Da Ting is an orange-colored stone go 
lem that looks as if he was made of bricks. 
He wears a pair of stupid-looking blue 
shorts. As he hits his victims, he yells 
such intelligent phrases as "Thoom!" 
"Pow!" "Whom!" He has no treasure. 

Da Ting: AC 5: MV 6"; HD 14; hp 60; 
MT 1; Dmg 3d8; THACO 8; AL N; SA 
cast slow spell; SD +2 or better weapon 
to hit 

Area 8: The Non-Human Scorch 

Scorch is a fire elemental who was 
summoned a while back and decided to 
stay (OK, so he's an odd fire elemental, 
so sue him.) He runs around yelling 
"Flame on!," which is sort of stupid con- 
sidering his flame is always on. He has no 
treasure. 

Scorch: AC 2; MV 12"; HD 16; hp 90; 
MT 1; Dmg 3d8; THACO 7; AL N; SD 
+2 or better weapon to hit 

Area 9: Arena 

This vast 80'-by-l60' chamber has a 
sandy floor and a vaulted ceiling 40 feet 
high. Along the north and south walls are 
vast stone benches for spectators. 

The most unusual feature is the 30- 
foot-tall iron golem squaring off against an 
Apparatus of Kwalish. Both combatants 
are bristling with wand tips. self-loading 


crossbows, nozzles and spearheads. A 
successfiil Wisdom Check (on ld20) by a 
party member means that he notices a 
humanoid form inside the head of the go 
lem. 

If the party enters, the combatants no- 
tice them but are too busy fighting to 
worry about the PCs very much. 

Iron Golem: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 18; hp 
80; MT 8; Dmg see below: THACO 8; 
SA see below; AL N; SD +3 or better 
weapon to hit, affected only by electrical 
spells. 

The golem has two wands: Breballs and 
lightning bolts. Each inflicts 6d6 points of 
damage. The two crossbows are heavy 
and automatically self-loading; they cause 
2-5 points of damage. Two spear 
launchers are also self-loading and cause 
ld6 damage. The nozzle shoots flaming 
oil in a 40-foot-long jet, inflictmg 8d6 
points of damage, a savmg throw vs. 
breath weapon cuts the damage in half. 
This can fire every other round. The final 
attack is the golem's fist, which causes 
3d8 points of damage. 

The golem has a control center inside 
its head, arrayed with levers and buttons. 
There is room for one operator, in this 
case an orc by the name of Fahzah. 

Fahzah: AC 7; MV 9"; F3; hp 23; MT 
1; Dmg ld6 short sword; THACO 16; AL 
LE 

The Apparatus is armed with the exact 
same inventory except the golem's 
punch. Instead, it has two pincers that do 
2d6 each, 25% chance to hit. 

The driver is a Type V demon named 
Katrina, who hijacked the Apparatus for 
its cargo of treasure! 

Katrina: AC -7/-5; MV 12"; HD 
7 + 7; hp 55; MT 7; Dmg 2d4 + 6 x ld8 
swords; THACO 12; AL CE; SA con- 
striction; SD +1 or better weapon to hit; 
80% MR 

If the PCs attack either combatant, 
both stop their fight and attack the PCs. If 
the PCs try to sneak through the arena 
without bothering the behemoths, they 
are inadvertantly caught in the crossfire 
of one of the combatants' weapons each 
round (roli randomly for which weapon 
and which PCs are affected by it). 

Inside the Apparatus are two locked 


chests. One contains 5,000 gp, the other 
contains an arrow of demon slaying, a 
doak +2, a ring of wizardry levels one 
and two, and a shield +3. 

Characters who wish to control the go 
lem must roil a successful Intelligence 
Check (on ld20) each round. Failure 
causes the golem to move and fire in a 
random direction. 

Area 10 

Through this set of sturdy iron double 
doors, the party sees a 20-foot-wide cor- 
ridor extending 60 feet to the east and 
trailing off into darkness. Once they get 
to the "X," the corridor, which is illusory, 
vanishes, revealing an arena much like 
the one to the west. 

In the northeast comer there is an odd- 
looking, steam-powered vehicle manned 
by four dwarves wearing odd-looking 
white helmets. In the southeast comer 
there is a similar vehicle manned by 
gnomes in red helmets. Both vehicles 
have armor plates hammered onto them. 
as well as the exact same sort of arma- 
ment that the golem and Apparatus had in 
room 9. The cars are AC 2, can take 100 
points of damage before breaking down, 
and can move at a rate of 18". 

The gnomes and dwarves are fighting 
over a pile of emeralds and gold ingots, 
the gold valued at 10,000 gp and the em 
eralds at 30,000 gp. This pile sits out in 
the open in the southeast comer. A fe- 
male dwarf (bearded) and a female 
gnome, wearing blonde wigs. bikinis and 
big smiles, are to present the awards to 
the victors. The sight of these two in biki 
nis should be enough to cause any male 
human to roli a Constitution Check (on 
ld20); those failing become violently and 
copiously ill. 

Of course, both contenders stop their 
fighting and attack the players, yelling at 
them to get away from the loot. 

Dwarves: AC 5 chain mail, crash hel 
mets; MV 6"; F5; hp 45; MT 1; Dmg 
ld4 + l hammers/ld8 battie axes; 
THACO 15; AL CN 

Gnomes: AC 7 leather, crash helmets; 
MV 6"; F4/IL4; hp 20; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
short swords; THACO 15; AL CN: SA il- 


56 









lusion spell use 

Note that neither vehicle will give 
chase, since they don't trust each other 
alone with the gold and the (shudder) 
giris. 

Area 11: Beam Me Up 

This wooden door is locked. Beyond it 
stands an odd scene. An ogre lies face 
down on the floor. A skeleton kneels beside 
him, while a six-foot-tall green elf looks 
aloofly about the room, and a djinn wearing 
a gold shirt looks heroic. At their feet are a 
drum, a lute, a flute, and pipes. They are 
playing a very discordant tune of their own 
accord. The room is otherwise made up as 
a very comfortable looking parlor. 

"He's dead, djinn," the skeleton says 
as the party enters. "You did all you 
could, Bones," the djinn replies. "Dam- 
mit, djinn, I'm a deric. not a serving 
wench!" the skeleton sputters for no 
good reason. 

"Captain," the green elf intones, "our 
instruments indicate the presence of 
other life forms." The elf points to the 
wildly playing musical instruments, then 
to the party. 

The trio introduce themselves as the 
djinn Kork, a Captain of the guard at the 
palace of the djinn viziers, his elfin monk/ 
sage companion Mees Taspark and the 
skeleton cleric Bones, Kork and Mees 
were plane traveling when they decided 
to rest here. A wave of magic went 
through them, then they met Bones. 
Now they are trying to piece together 
what happened and what the exact nature 
of this level is. 

All three are pleasant. They are not 
hostile. If asked about the drums, etc., 
Mees will explain that these are his in 
struments used in gathering data. They 
are 100% reliable and honest, for they do 
not have a single lyre in their midst. 

Captain Kork (djinn): AC 4: MV 9"/ 
24"; HD 7+3; hp 56: MT 1; Dmg2d8; 
THACO 12; AL CG; SA whirlwind plus 
see below. Kork is a very handsome 
djinn. So much so that any female who 
sees him must roli a successful saving 
throw vs. spell or fail in love with him. So 
enamored are they that they will be will- 


ing to do unbelievably stupid things for his 
sake, even betray their party. 

Mees Taspark (elf): ST 15, IN 18, WI 
18, DE 18. CO 13, CH 12; Monk 9; AL 
LN; AC 3; MV 23"; hp 28; See Players 
Handbook for monk abilities of this level. 
Mees is a scholar devoted to logic. He 
has his emotions under right control. 
Mees is also a sage, specializing in the 
Physical Universes. 

Bones (skeleton): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 
1; hp 8: MT 1; Dmg ld6 + l mace; 
THACO 19; AL N; Level 1 cleric. Bones 
was a normal human cleric wandering 
down on this level, when the wave of 
magic washed over him and tumed him 
into this. He's a bit emotional about it, 
and gets these urges to say 'Tm a cleric, 
not a (insert noun here).'' 

None of the group has any treasure or 
magical items, and as a bit of advice they 
wam the party away from the north door. 
They claim there are "cling-ons" behind 
it. Kork then yells "energize!" and all 
three disappear. 

Area 12: Vargouille Lair 

This 40'-by-60' room is gloomy with its 
arches and flying buttresses casting 
shadows all about. Great cobwebs hang 
menacingly from the ceiling, obscuring 
vision. There appear to be no li ving crea- 
tures in here. 

One round after the door has been 
opened, two dozen vargouilles swoop 
down and attack the party, clinging onto 
them as thev repeatedly bite them. 

Vargouille: AC 8; MV /12"; HD 1 + 1; 
hp 9; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 18; AL 
NE; SA save vs poison or damage is per 
manent 

Under a particularly large pile of cob 
webs are the remains of two humans. 
One has Geld plate +1, shield +2, and 
carries a flametongue long sword +1, 
the command word being "Kriket." The 
other has nothing of value. By the way, 
the robed corpse was Fubar the Continu- 
ously Unfortunate Wizard, and the war- 
rior was Phydeaux the Stubbomly Loyal 
Even Unto Painful Death. 


Area 13 

The door to this four-room complex is 
unlocked, but bears the sign: "Danger! 
DO NOT ENTER! Go away! Vamoose! 
Amscray! Beat it! Take off. eh! Seat! 
Shoo!" If the party enters, a chorus of 10 
magic mouths say, "You'll be sooorrrrr- 
ryyyy!" in sing-song voices. 

The complex consists of four rooms, 
each 30 feet by 30 feet and interconnect- 
ing via doors in the middle of the appro- 
priate wall. Odd music at a fast tempo 
blares conrinuously, featuring horns, xy- 
lophones and kazoos, and every noise the 
party makes is exaggerated and comes 
out almost phonetically (i.e. when a door 
is closed, the party hears "Slam!" or 
when an arrow is loosed, they hear 
"Twang!") 

The rooms are all empty, with gaily col- 
ored murals on the walls depicring coun 
try side landscapes, village squares, the 
open sea, the Abyss, and the polar re 
gions. 

There are six denizens of this complex, 
with ld6 of them appearing in any of the 
four rooms at any given time, even if en- 
countered in the previous room. When 
met, they always have full hit points and 
look fine even if killed in an earlier en- 
counter. Party members who were 
killed, maimed, or otherwise injured are 
instantly brought to life and good health 
when the party enters another room. 

The murals themselves act as gates 
into their environments. One can also 
travel into an adjacent room by going into 
one mura] and coming out another one. 
The murals are as follows: 

A: The west wall has a mural of a vil 
lage. One can make out a smithy, an inn, a 
stable, a tailor. and a buteher. The PCs 
can avail themselves of these NPCs' 
services and even bring non-hving things 
back with them into "reality." 

B: The west wall has a mural of polar 
landscape, with a howling blizzard and 
large snowdrifts. Sadistic DMs may roli 
for wandering monsters using the Arctic 
subtable in the DMG. 

C: The north wall contains a mural of a 
pleasant field with a road running to the 
horizon. The weather is spring like, with 


57 







lush green trees and chirping birds. If the 
party persists on using the road, let them 
stay on it for a turn, then hint that it con- 
tinues to the horizon. If they still con- 
tinue, have five talking heads of stone 
come bouncing down the road singing 
"We're on a road to nowhere!" If they re- 
main stubborn, then let them keep going 
for an hour; eventually they come upon 
the remains of a lion. a tin golem. and a 
scarecrow, all ha ving died horribly. 

If even this does not deter them. then 
tell them the road is now paved with odd 
bricks. Anyone who checks them out will 
find that they all have writing on them 
saying "Good intentions" in Common. 
Anyone who continues for another hour 
lands smack in the middle of the ninth 
plane of Hell. If this sounds harsh, re- 
member that they had their chances. 

D. This room has two murals. The east 
wall shows the open sea, a strong breeze 
creating waves as sea guils fly by. Anyone 
in armor who steps through sinks like a 
rock. Seabome encounters may be rolied 
randomly. 

The second mural is on the south wall, 


and portrays what is clearly the Abyss, 
the 663rd layer to be exact. Roil for ran 
dom abyssal (see Manual of the Planes) 
encounters once a round. 

Note that in all cases, intelligent mon 
sters will not give chase outside their mu 
ral. Travel from one mural to another 
takes one round, and is done simply by 
willing it so. The denizens of the rooms 
are as follows: 

* A bugbear with buckteeth, wearing a 
pair of fake rabbit ears. He talks as if lie's 
from Brooklyn or the Bronx. He wields a 
carrot +2, which he chews but never 
seems to be able to finish, since it replen- 

Bugsbear Bunny: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 
3 + 1; hp 25; MT 1; Dmg ld4 ( + 2) car 
rot; THACO 15; AL CE 

* A dao wearing a fake duck bill. This 
dao is quite insane, bouncing off walls and 
yelling "Woo-hoo! Woo-hoo!" He speaks 
with a lisp. 

Daffy Dao: AC 3; MV 9"/15"; HD 
8 + 3; hp 64; MT 1; Dmg 3d6; THACO 
12; AL NE; SA spell use; SD immune to 
earth-affecting spells 


* A fat, stuttering orc with very pro- 
nounced pig-like features waves at the 
party. He appears to be friendly. 

Porky Orc: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 8; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6 club; THACO 19; AL 
LE 

* A stench kow with fake moose ant- 
lers stares balefully at the party. This is a 
buil. Slowly it advances upon the party, 
and says. in a silly voice, "Hey. Rotty, 
watch me pull a tarrasque out of this hel- 
met!" 

A giant black flying squirrel wearing a 
leather cap with two lenses on it pops into 
view and says "Aw, that trick never 
works!" 

The kow grabs the nearest PC helmet, 
mutters "Nothin' up muh sleeve..." and 
reaches into the helmet. If the kow is not 
stopped, he has a 30% chance of pulling 
out a tarrasque. who will proceed to go 
berserk. The other 70% of the time, the 
kow pulis out a far worse creature. 

If the PCs interfere with the trick or if 
they express their dislike of it. the kow 
and squirrel attack. 

Bulistinkle the Stench Kow: AC 2; MV 


















15"; HD 3 + 3; hp 23; tfAT 1; Dmg 2d4; 
THACO 15; AL NE; SA bad breath. 
charge damage; SD immune to cold, fire, 
poison 

Rotty the Giant Flying Black Camivo- 
rous Squirrel: AC 6; MV 9*715"; HD 
1 +1; hp 9; tfAT 1; Dmg ld3; THACO 18; 
AL NE. 

* The last denizen is a flind wielding a 
double-barreled heavy crossbow. He 
wears an odd cap with ear flaps, which 
covers his bald pate. When he sees the 
party, he puts a finger up to his mouth and 
says, "Shhh. Be vewy, vewy quiet. I'm 
hunting wascally wabbits." In faet, any- 
thing he says is tainted by his pronounc- 
ing all r's and l's as w's. If the PCs tell him 
that there's a bugbear imitating a wab- 
bit...er, rabbit, his face fights up with joy, 
and he demands to know where it's lo- 
cated. He'll dash off, muttering, "At last 
I got you, you wascal, you!" 

Elmer Flind: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 2 +3; 
hp 15; tf AT 2; Dmg ld4 +1 heavy cross 
bow; THACO 16; AL LE 

As the party departs this suite of 
rooms, the orc's face magically appears 
on the door and says, "Th-th-th-that's 
all, folks!" 

Area 14: Crypt 

The ponderous door is made of steel, 
and feels very, very cold. Moisture con- 
denses on its rusty surface. Engraved in 
stark letters is the word "Crypt." An iron 
ring, twisted to the right, opens the door 
easily, as it squeals on rust hinges. 

The crypt is cold and damp. The ceiling 
is vaulted, and extends 60 feet and even 
farther into darkness. Rows upon rows of 
stone tombs, with carved effigies atop 
them, extend along the floor into the far 
comers of the room. Shelves containing 
yet more coffins are recessed into the 
west and east walls. 

Suddenly. three kobolds leap out from 
behind a sarcophagus and say, "Are you 
ghosts?" These kobolds are dressed in 
coveralls with their names stitched on 
their left breasts. Their names are 
"Gurk." "Woohag," and "Pattoie." Each 
holds a nozzle of some sort that is at- 


tached by a tube to an odd box strapped 
to their backs. 

They explain that they are 
"Ghostbreakers," and have heard that 
there are ghosts in here, and seeing as 
they "ain't 'fraid of no ghost," they de- 
cided to come in here and wipe them out. 
If questioned about their backs, they 
pridefully declare that these are "spirit 
weapons" used to kill ghosts, but will not 
divulge their exact nature. 

Any further questions are interrupted 
by an unearthly howling as a ghost mate- 
rializes at the north end of the crypt and 
advances at the party. 

The three kobolds bravely advance for 
ward and spray the ghost with strange 
liquids. The PCs smell wine, mead, and 
brandy, and well they should because 
these idiotic kobolds are using spirits 
against this spirit, the only result being a 
wet, angry ghost. The furious spirit ma- 
terializes, and in one swell foop kills all 
tliree kobolds, this taking one round. 
Then it advances on the party. 

Ghost: AC 0 (or 8): MV 9"; HD 10; hp 
57; tf AT 1; Dmg age 10-40 years; 
THACO 10; AL CE; SA magic jar, fear by 
sight; SD semi-material ghosts unaf- 
feeted by nonsilver and nonmagical weap 
ons. 

There is no treasure in here except 
what was buried with the corpses. The 
kobolds' wine, mead, and brandy are 
each worth 500 gp. 

Area 15: Study 

This richly-decorated 30'-by-40' room 
has a plush red carpet, overstuffed chairs 
and sofa, and shelves of books. There is a 
wooden door on the east wall. 

Poring through the books are three 
green slaad, plus a fourth off in the far 
southeast comer putting on a black tur- 
tleneck sweater. The three studious 
slaad are dressed in odd tan coats with 
many pockets. They each wear a Fedora 
hat and dark glasses, and are armed with 
hand-held crossbows. 

They explain that they are agents for 
the NSA, Nice Slaad Agency, and are 
hunting "those dirty Reds." They intro- 
duce themselves as Shef Slaad. Toonah 


Slaad, and Seezar Slaad. Their compan- 
ion in the comer, they say, is Lohkal 
Slaad, dressing. 

Green Slaad: AC 3; MV 9"; HD 9 + 3; 
hp 60; tf AT 3; Dmg 2d8/ld6+2/ld6+2; 
THACO 12; AL CN; SA spell use; SD 
+1 or betler weapon to hit, MR 50% 

Before any further conversation can be 
attempted, a tliump is heard from the 
eastem door. The slaad rush to the door 
and break it down. 

Area 16: Office 

Tlris 40'-by-40' room is just as com- 
fortable and lavish as the study, but in- 
stead of bookeases, there is a massive 
oak desk. This apparently is where the 
lord of the castle conducts business. 

Clustered around the desk, picldng the 
lock. are three red slaad, attired similar 
to the green slaad. with a fourth in the 
southeast comer, putting on a tuxedo. 
They look up and say. "Curses, com- 
rades, the imperialists have found us!" 
They pull out hand-held crossbows and 
begin firing. 

These slaad are members of the GRU. 
Great Reds United. Their names are, 
Froot Slaad, Makaronee Slaad, Poh 
Tayto Slaad, and the one in the comer is 
Ruhshin Slaad, dressing. These slaad 
were apparently breaking into the lord's 
desk to acquire information. 

After a furious crossbow battie, the 
reds gate back to Limbo. Of course, if the 
party fights them, the slaad may end up 
dead before they can escape. 

Red Slaad: AC 6; MV 6"; HD 7; hp 35; 
tf AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/2d8; THACO 13; 
AL CN; SA poison pellets and spell use; 
SD regenerate, MR 35% 

If the red slaad are repulsed, the green 
slaad begin investigating the desk. They 
find dead roaches in the desk and under 
the rug ("Just as I thought, they planted 
bugs."). Documents in the desk give evi- 
dence of the existence of a Random Mon 
ster Generator and Magical Item 
Coin-Operated Dispenser. The only 
other doeument of interest is an order 
form for a "Ranger Fooler" and a 
"Dungeon Cleaner," whatever they are. 

If the party helped the green slaad, the 


59 









slaad express their gratitude and give 
each member a 500-gp gem. They will 
also allow the party to take the slaad sym 
bols out of any dead red slaad's skuil. 

Area 17 

This 50'-by-50' chamber appears to 
have recently sundved an explosion. 
There is nothing identifiable in here, but 
as the characters look around. an oblong 
blue box slowly materializes in the room, 
making loud wheezing and rattling 
noises. 

Before the startled party can react, out 
bounds a halfling with thick, curly, brown 
hair. A large, floppy hat covers most of 
his hair, and a long, multicolored scarf is 
wrapped around liis neck. Flanking him 
are two absolutely gorgeous women in 
flimsy mini-dresses. They appear to have 
no romantic interest in the halfling. All 
males must roll a successful Wisdom 
Check (on ld20), or start to salivate un- 
controllably and do stupid, attention- 
getting things for the women, who, of 
course, appear oblivious to this. 

The last thing to emerge is a suit of 
canine-shaped armor, with some sort of 
dog obviously in it. It introduces itself as 
B-9, a friendly and helpful blink dog. It re 
fers to the halfling as Master, and seems 
to be quite intelligent, even more so than 
the halfling himself. 

The halfling introduces himself as Pro 
fessor Why. If asked about his device, he 
shrugs and says that it is his CURDIS, 
which is an acronym for Chronieally Un- 
able to Reach Destination In Silence. 

Prof. Why: ST9, IN 11, W118, DE 17, 
CO 14, CH 15; Cleric 5; AL CG; AC 7; 
MV 12"; hp 20 

Absolutely Gorgeous Women: ST 7, IN 
18. W110, DE 18, CO 10, CH 18; Fighter 
1; AL CG; AC 6;MV12";hp 10 

Any who enter the CURDIS find it is 
much more spacious inside (the size of a 
large mansion) than outside (a 10'-by-10' 
cube). If asked about this, he says he 
stole the technique from some female 
witch by the name of Bobbi Yogurt, Barbi 
Yuckka, Babababa barbara-ann, or some- 
thing like that. 

Suddenly, a hut mounted on a pair of gi- 


ant chicken feet materializes next to the 
CURDIS. "Oops! It's her!! Oh, well, 
must pop off! Cheerio!," the Professor 
says as he ushers his lovelies back into 
the CURDIS. Male PCs still affected may 
attempt to follow, but if they do, they' 11 
never be heard from again, since the Pro 
fessor cannot control this thing properly 
and won't materialize here again for ages 
to come. 

However, the hut's door opens. to re- 
veal an absolutely horrendous hag. This 
is Baba Yaga. If you do not have the good 
fortune of owning DRAGON(r) magazine 
#83, which features this powerful witch 
and floor plans for her hut, then play her 
as a short-tempered, 25th-level neutral 
evil wizard. 

She juts her head out and says, "Al- 
right, where is he? Where's that furry 
footed fruitcake?" If the party asks 
"Who?" or "What," she shakes her head 
and says, "No! Why!" This could obvi 
ously start a rather confusing dialogue. 

Consider her to be under 90% cover, 
making her virtually impossible to hit. Af- 
ter about two rounds of pointless conver- 
sation, she'11 leave in pursuit of Professor 
Why, her hut fading into the netherworlds 
as it clucks ominously. 

Area 18: Trashed Room 

This 40'-by-50' room is similar to area 
17, in that it is scorched and ruined. The 
cause is still here, too. Eight orcs, 
sheathed in Steel cones with a stick-like 
projections at eye-level, are running 
about the room shouting "Exterminate!" 
The orcs are speaking in Common. 

The stick-like projections are wands of 
lightning bolts. The orcs, from inside 
their cones, fire the wands at anything 
that moves-sometimes at things that 
don't move, too! When they see the 
party, one orc shouts, "Look! Adventur 
ers! Let's dust 'em!" Another orc will 
say, "Shh! Stick to the script!" The first 
orc will whisper, "Sorry." Then shout 
out, "Exterminate!" as will the others. 
They have no treasure, and each wand is 
conveniently expended by the time the 
party eliminates the orcs. 


Area 19: Indiana Gnome 

When the party arrives at the "X," 
they hear a low rumbling, which in- 
creases in volume. Three segments 
later, they hear heroic, upbeat music. In 
another three segments, they see a 
gnome running toward them wearing a 
leather jacket and battered fedora hat. 
The gnome has a whip attached to his 
belt, and he appears to be running with 
much urgency. Tucked under his arm is a 
golden idol worth 1,000 gp. 

Seeing the party doesn't slow his 
stride. Gripping his fedora so it won't 
blow off, he says, "Sorry I can't stop and 
talk. You'd better go too if you know 
what's good for you." He dashes down 
the hall to area 1, enters it, and is not 
seen again. 

Indiana Gnome: ST 16, IN 12, WI 14, 
DE 17, CO 18, CH 10; Fighter 5; AL CG; 
AC 7; MV 12"; hp 50; Dmg ld2, whip 

The rumbling is now ominously loud, 
and a massive boulder comes rumbling 
down the hall at 12" per round. Any poor 
soul overtaken gets hit for 6dl0 points of 
damage. and all items must save vs. 
crushing blow. 

One round later, a dozen kobolds in 
black uniforms and red armbands come 
up to the party. The leader, who has a 
monode, interrogates the party. 

"Vere ist der Indiana Gnome?" he de 
mands. "Do not remain silent. Ve haf 
vays of making you talk!" Each kobold is 
armed with a hand-held crossbow. 

Kobolds: AC 7; MV 6"; hp 4: #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4 hand-held crossbow; THACO 
20; AL LE. They have no treasure. 

Area 20 

The cyclopean iron portals that face the 
frail party are awash in the primordial 
slime of die ages. The rusty iron is cold 
as the grave to the touch. The skull- 
shaped door handle squeals in protest 
when tumed. and centuries-old hinges 
groan under their burden. 

The air is dank, filled with the odor of 
something that nature never wished 
alive, and never had a hånd in creating. 
Shouts echo from the chamber beyond. 










The stalwart heroes go in, their eyes 
widening in horror at the vision of insanity 
that looms before them. A great human- 
oid, 20 feet high. with great bat-like 
wings and blood-caked claws stands in 
defiance like some accursed statue. Its 
bulbous head trails horrid tentades from 
its mouth. It's horrible, it's maddening. 
it's...it's.... 

It's a mind flayer who drank one too 
many wineskins iaced with potions of 
growth. It fashioned a pair of bat-wings 
out of thin wood and vellum, and now it 
runs around drunkenly scaring the day- 
lights out of any hapiess creature it finds. 

Mind Flayer: AC 5: MV 12"; HD 8 +4; 
hp 66: MT 4; Dmg 2 points each; 
THACO 12; AL LE; SA mind biast; SD 
MR 90% 

All PCs who see this thing roil a suc- 
cessful Wisdom Check (on ld20) or go in- 
sane for ld4 hours. In any case, the party 
is paralyzed into inaction for ld3 rounds. 

One round after the party enters, a 
group of six halflings talking in British 
accents push their way in. "Out of our 
way, we know the andent ways to put 
down this fouJ abomination! " the one who 
is obviously the leader grumbles. 

He has a thick book called the Metro- 
gnomicon. commonly known as the Field 
Guide of Citv-Dwellmg Gnomes. This 
halfling begins to chant deep, arcane 
phrases of banishment: 

"Ti od em edam draeh ecurb! Siht rof 
em emalb t'nod!" 

One halfling bums a candle at both 
ends. Another picks his nose with a dag 
ger. Yet another stands on his head and 
blows a razzberry at the mind flayer. 
Even another makes hånd gestures at the 
beast, while the last one takes out se- 
lected pieces of fruit and dashes them 
against his forehead while chanting, 
"Oogah Boogah!" repeatedly. 

The mind flayer looks amused. waits 
around, then blows their little minds out 
of their little heads with a mind biast. 

Area 21 

This 60-foot-diameter chamber is more 
like a cave, with stalactites on the ceiling 
and unusual crystal formations jutting out 


of the walls. In the center of the diamber 
is a pool 30 feet in diameter. The room is 
ominously quiet. 

Suddenly, out of the pool, a half dozen 
six-foot-tall turties come leaping out. 
They are attired in samurai armor and 
wield katana. Before the party realizes 
what the heck is happening, they are at- 
tacked. All six turties holler "Banzai!" as 
they charge. 

Adult Samurai Mutated Turties: AC 2; 
MV 6"; HD 8; MT 2: Dmg IdlO katana: 
AL N. Detail-loving DMs may wish to 
flesh out the turtles with samurai abilities 
from the Oriental Adventures book. 

These turtles cannot be bargained 
with. Furthermore. they only speak Japa- 
nese. The party has invaded their turf, 
and honor demands that the turtles either 
kill the PCs or drive them off. Since killing 
is much more fun. they attempt that first. 
They will not pursue fleeing opponents. 

Should the turtles be defeated, the 
lucky victors will find treasure hidden on 
a shelf one foot under the surface of the 
pool. The treasure is made up of 20 
pearls worth 500 gp each, two potions of 
water breathing, a jade statue of Su Shi 
(the goddess of raw fish) worth 2,500 gp, 
and an arcane book that teaches the 
reader the proper way to wash a car 
("Wax on, wax off!"). 

The cryståls in the walls are valuable. 
A party of six digging for 2d4 tums will 
free 3d6 cry ståls worth 5d4 x 20 gp each. 

Area 22 

This massive chamber contains a 
vaulted ceiling painted sky blue with an 
occasional painted cloud. The air is arid 
and hot. and the floor is covered in brown 
dust. To the northeast lies a small hili, 30 
feet high at its apex. It is dotted with 
boots. To the west lies a large wooden 
s true ture. The walls are murals of desert 
landscape. They are nonmagical. but a 
eruel DM can hint that they are similar to 
the ones found earlier. 

Anyone smart enough to explore the 
hiil finds dozens of pairs of boots. For 
every round spent looking around, 
there's a 5% chance of finding a pair of 
boots of elvenkind, dancing. levitation, 


speed, striding and springing. winged, or 
north. Allow no more than one pair of 
each type to be found. 

Also in area 22, two manticores are 
face to face. Both human heads are wear- 
ing cowboy hats, and one chews for a 
while then spits out some disgusting 
brown juice. 

Perched on a cactus are two harpies, 
watching the manticores with malign an 
ticipation. They are drooling, and mum- 
bling things like, "Dibs on the fat one," 
"Sure wish they'd hurry up, I'm fam- 
ished." 

"You low-down, philanderin' polecat!" 
the first manticore growls, "I told yuh ta 
get outta town by sundew down." 

Indeed, if the party looks to the north- 
west, one can see a sundew on the wall, 
looking very depressed. 

"Ah don't take no orders from some 
tin-plated lawmanticore. Draw!" the 
other growls. Both tails rise up over their 
heads and prepare to fire. 

Before the manticores unleash their 
volleys, the harpies sight the party (un- 
less the PCs came in invisibly or other- 
wise concealed). "Look!" they screech, 
"Interlopers! Humans! Lunch!" 

The manticores tum and face the PCs, 
and each unleashes a spike volley, then 
attempts to melee, while the harpies be- 
gin singing. The sundew remains in the 
comer, looking depressed. 

Manticores: AC 4; MV 12" /18"; HD 
6+3: hp 48: MT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld8; 
THACO 13; AL LE; SA tail spikes 

Harpies: AC 7; MV 6"/15"; HD 3: hp 
24: #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; THACO 
15; AL CE; SA singing & charm 

If the party approaches the sundew. 
the PCs notice it still looks quite de 
pressed. Suddenly, a canine figure mate- 
rializes between it and the party. 

The canine is a moon dog. and it po- 
liteiy explains that it is eclipsing the sun 
dew, so that it will die and not be a threat 
to any living thing. If asked why he didn't 
help fight the manticores, he explains 
that the eclipsing takes all his energy. If 
left unmolested, the sundew will be dead 
in one turn. 

Armstrong (moon dog): AC 2/0/-2; 
MV 30"; HD 8 +16: hp 80; MT 1; Dmg 


61 






3d4; THACO12; AL NG: SA spell usage, 
howl; SD +2 or better weapons to hit, 
spell use 

The building has a sign over the en- 
trance that savs "Saloon." The sound of a 
piano playing can be heard. The entrance 
has swinging doors. 

Inside, an elf wearing flashy clothes 
and gem-studded eye glasses plays piano 
while a voluptuous woman wearing a low- 
cut dress and large hat and veil belts out a 
tune. 

Elfin John (high elf): AC 6; MV 12"; 
HD 1; hp 8: AL CG. Don't kill him, he's 
just the piano player. 

Mae Doosah (medusa): AC 5; MV 9"; 
HD 6; hp 45; #AT 1; Dmg ld4: THACO 
13; AL LE; SA petrifying gaze + poison. 
Mae is the chanteuse who gets the cus- 
tomers stoned. 

Among the customers, suitable for 
fleshing out by the DM: 

* A lOth-level ranger who wears a 
black mask and travels alone. He also 
loans people money if they need it. 

* A group of three deva who wear yel- 
low coveralls and welders' goggles. 
Every five minutes. they rise in unison, 
salute, and chant, "Are we not men? We 
are deva!" 

* A poker game between a needleman, 
a drow. an erinyes, and ogre, and a wiz- 
ard. There is a total of 934 pp. 1,472 gp 
and eight gems worth 250 gp on the table. 
Feel free to also include any stili-living 
NPCs whom the party has already met. 

At some point, a brawl breaks out 
when a stench kow wanders in and 
breathes on the card-playing wizard. Ev- 
eryone in the saloon joins in, smashing 
each other with fumiture (treat as a club). 

Area 23 

This door is locked. If it is unlocked and 
opened, the party linds a 30-foot square 
room, with someone sitting at a desk. 
The person is a man with brown hair and 
eyes. He is wearing one of those odd 
shirts found in area 1. Pinned on his chest 
is a disk with the letters "Author." 

The man takes a bite of a strange bread 
covered with cheese, tomatoes, and 
mushrooms, washes it down with some 


liquid in a red and white metal canister, 
and begins pressing buttons on a box in 
front of him. A second box with a green- 
ish glowing face lights up with odd sigils 
and runes. 

The man does a doubletake at the party 
and scowls. "All right, very funny! Now 
why don't you jokers just get out of here 
and let me finish my work in peace? I'm 
past the deadline and they' 11 have my hide 
if it's any later. Now go on. get out of 
here!'' 

If the party refuses to budge, he grins 
evilly and begins typing furiously. Sud- 
denly, a titan appears. and lifts the floor 
up, dumping the party back through the 
door and into the hallway. The sound of 
more furious typing is heard, and the 
door vanishes. 

Author: AC -10; MV Unlimited; HD 
25; hp 200 +: #AT unlimited; Dmg unlim 
ited; AL N; SA Can alter reality at will, 
whatever he says or writes goes; SD can- 
not be hit 

Area 24: The Answer to it All 

This vast room measures 60 feet by 90 
feet. The door is locked and trapped with 
explosive runes. Through the door, 
chanting can be heard. If a magic-user 
succeeds in listening, he can tell it's de- 
finitely a spell being cast by six people. 

Entering the room, the party finds six 
wizards sitting cross-legged around a 
cauldron belching forth prismatic smoke. 
Strewn about the floor are brightly col- 
ored boxes. all glowing with an evil light. 
Many odd-shaped dice are whirling 
around the room like insane ioun stones. 

An odd, metallic box 10 feet square sits 
in the northwest comer. It has a small 
slit, a lever, and a chute. 

The sound of the party entering shakes 
the wizards out of their spell casting. 
These six are the ones who conjured all 
these games here in the first place. 
They're still trying to conjure true power 
from other worlds and dimensions. Natu 
rally, when they see the party, they at- 
tack with spells. 

Evil Wizards: MU 11; AL NE; AC 3; 
MV 12": hp 35. All of them have bracers 
AC 6, rings ofprotection +2, and dag 


gers +2. Each has one of the following 
wands: fire, conjuration, wonder, poly- 
morph, paralyzation, lightning. The first 
one has a staff o f the magi. Their names 
are Randalf, Berlin, Morty Kanen, El 
Finster, Timmy, and Harry'. 

As for spell selection, give them the 
normal amount of spells, trying to avoid 
excessive duplication. Their spell books 
are tucked away in the northeast comer, 
so they will not cast area-effect devasta- 
tion spells in this room. If they are 
gravely injured they will try to teleport 
out or bargain with the PCs. 

They have no treasure. They will ex- 
plain why this level is as it is. Their depar- 
ture will cause the games to lose their 
power, and the creatures will begin acting 
themselves again. All the props that 
would normally not be found in a fantasy 
setting will vanish. 

The big metal box is a magical item dis 
penser. A PC need only deposit a gold 
piece, pull the lever, and out pops a ran 
dom magical item. Use the Unearthed 
Arcana random treasure charts to deter- 
mine what comes out. This only works 
once per PC. 

Area 25 

The door to this 30-foot square room is 
wizard locked at llth level. 

In the room lies a friend of the lord of 
the castle, Sir Cumference, a man with a 
roundabout way of talking. If released, he 
will thank the party profusely in a round 
about sort of way. 

Sir Cumference: ST 16/20, LN 11, WI 
13. DE 17/76, CO 18/12, CH 10; Cava- 
lier level 10; AL LG; MV 12" unarmored; 
AC 7; hp 88. Sir Cumference is a friendly 
man who was waylaid by the wizards. 

Area 26 

A stairway heads downward. On the 
wall is carved. in Common, "You are leav- 
ing Level 5. Piease have a nice day." 








flevel 6= the temple op 
Seally baO OeaO thinqs 



Greyhawk Dungeon Level 6 



This adventure is recommended for 
four to six characters of llth to 12th 
level. The scenario should be played after 
the adventure on the preceding pages 
and before the next one. Of course, if you 
want to ignore our instructions, fine. go 
abead, play this scenario whenever you 
want, you won't catch us pouting. Much. 

DM Information 

The adventure begins at the entrance 
to the Temple of Really Bad Dead Things. 
While descending the staircase the party 
will have to wade through parchment 
sheafs of errata and addenda from the 
previous level. The stairway soon clears. 
The party will have noticed that the stone 
has changed from the color of the pre 


vious level to soft robin's-egg blue, crys- 
talline veins the color of amethyst 
running throughout the walls, floors. and 
ceilings. The air is mild, but humid 
enough to cloy uncomfortably to the skin. 

The temple is dedicated to the god 
Genericus Brant the Universally Bland. 
At one time Genericus was worshiped by 
a medium-sized horde of average fol 
io wers, served by a bunch of undistin- 
guished Priests of the Mediocre, all of 
whom served under the Faceless One, 
who was renowned for his bottomless 
barrel of clichés. 

Alas, the good old days are no more. 
An Evil Presence invaded the temple, ig- 
noring repeated requests that it leave. Its 
minions enthusiastically slew the horde of 
average followers, and engaged in joyous 
combat with the Priests of the Mediocre. 


It wasn't quite so joyous for the pnests. 
After hours of fighting priests who were 
mind-numbingly alike, it wasn't so much 
fun for the minions either. 

Just as the attackers were about to suc- 
cumb to the boredom of the temple, the 
minions overwhelmed the defenders, 
putting the priests to the sword. The final 
defender. the Faceless One, was trapped 
in the Reasonably Inner Sanctum. There 
he was confronted by the Evil Presence, 
who still had faint hope of wringing some 
drama from this confrontation. The Evil 
Presence stood before the Faceless One. 
Its aspect grew, arms thrown wide, tow- 
ering over the Faceless One. Laughter 
rumbled from the walls as if the room it- 
self were laughing. The Faceless One 
cocked his head, crossed his arms. and 
said. 


63 





























"Yeah? Well, he who laughs last iaughs 
best." 

That did it; the Evil Presence could not 
take any more. It vented its rage in a 
curse upon the Faceless One. a curse ftxli 
of polysyllabic horrors and short grue- 
some words such as ''fiense.'' It was 
quite an original curse. 

By committing originality, the Evil 
Presence had fallen for a completely pre- 
dictable plot twist. Genericus Brant 
blasted the Evil Presence and its min- 
ions, stripping them all of their indrvidual- 
ity and of their lives. Cursed, they are 
trapped in the Temple of Really Bad Dead 
Things, generic creatures unable to en 
gage in more than the most hackneyed 
plots, hanging around in rooms waiting 
for adventurers to come and kill them. 

Ernst Magor 

Genericus Brant is not a cruel god. In 
faet he is a decent enough guy. He saved 
the Faceless One from his curse. Not be- 
fore the Faceless One had died, but hey. 
even a god has his limits. He reincamated 
the Faceless One as Ernst Magor. Bu 
reauerat Ordinaire Second Class and put 
him in charge of the Trademark Office in 
the temple. 

Emst Magor is a man in his middle 30s, 
with close-cropped brown hair. dark 
eyes. a pleasant smile, firm handshake, 
and a nearly inexhaustible supply of 
sports shirts. He will always cite the Cy- 
clopedia of Proper Procedure, by vol- 
ume, section number, and paragraph as 
reason for not doing anything helpful 
other than run the party through the pa- 
perwork maze of trademark application. 

Emst Major (15th level-cleric. but no 
spells): AC 2 (verv tough hide and thick 
skuil): MV 12". Cleric 15; hp 65: #AT 1; 
Dmg by weapon; THACO 12; ST 12, IN 
11. WS 17. DX 11, CN 11, CH 14 

Emst is armed with a diamond-tipped 
Stylus, good enough to do ld6 points of 
damage, although he prefers to be rude 
rather than violent. 


Area 1: The Not-Too-Bad Foyer 


The landing is lit by the soft glow emit- 
ted by the crystalline veins in the wall. 
There is a large ebony door in an arch- 
way flanked with ivory gargoyies. In 
the center of the archway is a pattem 
of vertical black and white lines, with 
the words "Genericus Brant" under 
nea th. There is a bronze plaque on the 
north wall. 


The gargoyies are wortfc 8,900 gp, but 
they weight 450 pounds each. Just imag- 
ine what the elephant looked like.... 

The plaque reads "Bessamo Under- 
earth Construction Co. Our MA- 
GIFLECTION construction and appear- 
ing wall traps are the best in all 
Greyhawk." 

As soon as the party either reads the 
plaque or opens the ebony doors, a blue 
wall appears to block access the the stair- 
way. As soon as the wall appears, the 
crys talline veins begin to energize, and 
after 60 seconds the veins have the same 
amethyst glow of all of the other walls. As 
soon as the glow matches thai of the 
other walls, the Magiflection construc 
tion is complete. The appearing wall is 10 
feet thick. 

Magiflection construction is indeed the 
greatest achievement of Bessamo 
Underearth Construction Co. Magiflec 
tion reflects all magic cast at it. Not just 
lightning bolts and Brebalis, but all magic. 
A character using spider climb would be 
repulsed by the wall. Dismtegrate spells 
would reflect back. A character who tried 
to teleport through Magiflection con 
struction would simply bounce about until 
the energy of the spell dissipated. Ma 
giflection construction extends through 
several dimensions: spells that are classi- 
fied as "conjuration/summoning" do not 
work unless the target of the summoning 
is within the Temple of Really Bad Dead 
Things. 

The symbol on the archway is a Uni 
versal Product Code, or UPC. Look at 
the back of this book if you want to know 
the sort of thing the PCs see. Many 
things in the Temple of Really Bad Dead 


Things, including most monsters, are la- 
beled with a UPC. In the monster de- 
scriptions there will be a line that will read 
something like "UPC: Fuzzy Cuddly 
Flesh-Eating Dungeon Denizens." The 
UPC descriptions are used when the 
party finds the code reader; they are par- 
ticularly important in the Trademark 
Room. 

Area 2: An Atrium 


The ceiling is domed, supported by 
eight pillars. Each pillar has a mantie, 
and on each mantie is a bust of a 
hooded figure. 


As soon as the party enters the atrium, 
the image of Rostros the Well-Robed ap 
pears. issuing from a cracked agate 
broach in the northeast comer. Rostros is 
a rotund man dressed in a robe of translu 
cent material, nose and cheeks contain- 
ing a bit too mueh color. The image is 
grainy and gets worse as Rostros's 
speech goes on. 


"Ah, I am glad to see you have made it 
this far. You will find that this level has 
FRATZ can be mastered with 
FLICKER, WAVER reader (the image 
of Rostros holds up a truncated oval 
about two thirds again the size of his 
hånd, the truncated edge covered with 
a gray-tinted crystal). Once the code 
BLATZZZZZBUZZZ on the creature, 
take the D1STORTION to the Trade 
mark Off-CRACKLE, WAVER AND 
BUZZZ and you can send them 
straight to-SQUAWKING FIZZLE 
SPARKS AND BOOM!!!" 


The cracked agate broach lies smolder- 
ing in the comer, its magic gone. 

The busts are made of alabaster, each 
portraying a man. The features of each 
statue look as if they have been thor- 
oughly sanded, eliminating the unique fa- 
cial feature of each bust. Each bust is 
labeled with a UPC on a brass plate. If the 
players get the code reader, they can 
read the names of the eight Faceless 
Ones who have so blandly led the temple: 


64 
















Almandbar, Strepticus, Ayded'n'abeded, 
Corfus. Eeniegh, Meeniegh, Mynee, and 
Moe. Moe was the Faceless One who 
was reincamated into Ernst Magor. 

Area 3: The Hallway of the 
Design Glitch 


The ever-present amethyst glow is 
strong here, the fluted columns cast- 
ing complex, muted shadows on the 
walls. Without waming harsh orange 
writing appears in the air not six feet 
from you. It appears to be a gigantic 
printed table of some kind, filled with 
columns of numbers and names. You 
hear the sound of dice being rolied, 
and the view of the table lurches and 
then zooms in on a single entry in the 
table. 


The party has just seen portions of the 
Random Monster Generator in action. 
Choose some undead monsters from the 
table, and have them attack the party. 
The magjc of the Random Monster Gen 
erator has summoned them. 

But...wait...isn't the entire Temple of 
Really Bad Dead Things constructed of 
Magiflection material? Yes, it is. Then 
how can the monsters be summoned 
when summoning monsters from outside 
the temple is sperifically forbidden? What 
if some player points this out? 

You would think that Highly Paid Game 
Design Professionals could avoid glitches 
like this. Apparently we cannot; the best 
advice we can give you is to have you tell 
your players, "Look it's called the Hall 
way of the Design Glitch, so, like maybe 
the designer meant this to happen?" This 
may fool your players, but don't you be- 
lieve it for a second. 

The players will probably have to travel 
through this hallway again. If you want to 
tinker with the encounters a bit. we have 
the folio wing suggestions: 

1. If you roli the same type of monster, 
let them really be the same monsters the 
characters faced before. Maybe the mon 
sters are out for biood, better armed and 
prepared than the first time. Perhaps the 
monsters can see the writing on the wall 


and try to strike a bargain with the play 
ers ("Look buddy, we know where there 
is a really good random treasure ta 
ble...."), or quail in terror. Maybe they 
will try to reason with the PCs ("Look 
buddy, if you kill us we just wait around 
for another roil of the Dice Cosmic, but if 
you buy the farm you are nothing but fer- 
tilizer. Let's forget the whole thing, 
okay?"). 

2. Build the drama, then have Generi- 
cus Brant deflate it: "You see the orange 
glowing letters erupt into a fiery line. You 
can make out the number... (roll dice) 
'104' and the words 'A Tremendously In- 
teresting and Enriching Encounter.' Sud- 
denly a symbol like the one on the 
archway appears...(roil dice)...Uh oh, it 
passes over the words and they dim. 
Now they read 'Same Old Monsters.' " 
Refer to 1 above. 

Area 4: Room of the 

Provocatively Clad 
Prisoner 


As you enter the room you see a pair 
of sturdy manacles on the back wall. In 
the middle of the room are a randomly 
generated number of corporeal un 
dead creatures. They are dressed in 
spiffy spiked metal collars and quartz 
studded brass knuckles, drinking pints 
of bitters and smoking home-rolled 
cigarettes. The rolling papers are 
stuck on their ermine-colored spiked 
hairdos. 


3d6 Ghasts: AC 4; MV 15"; HD 4; hp 
20,15,15,15. 15,10,20,15. 15, 15, 15, 
10, 20, 15, 15, 15. 15, 10: H AT 3; Dmg 
Id6/ld6/ld8; THACO 15; SA Paralyzing 
touch; AL CE; UPC: Disgusting Bad 
Smelling Punk Undead. In addition, 
ghasts have a terrible odor that will cause 
opponents to attack them at a - 2 penalty 
unless a saving throw vs. poison is made. 
The brass knuckles not only look spiffy, 
they allow the ghasts to do ld6 points of 
damage rather than ld4. 

When the party opens the door, the 
ghasts attempt to speak with them, ask- 
ing the party to come back later. Approxi- 


mate the following script using your 
worst British accent. 

First Ghast: Sony mate, you and your 
blokes will just have to come back later. 
We aren't ready for you yet. 

If the players demonstrate any curios- 
ity as to why they are not ready. the ghast 
continues. 

First Ghast: See mate, this is one of 
them "rescue rooms " so popular in 
dungeons of this type, you know the 
kind... 

Ghast Number Two: The kind with the 
damsel in distress who, when you rescue 
her, tums out to be a succubus or an evil 
sorceress or... 

First Ghast: Other form of nastiness. 
Well mate. our bird has flown the coop, 
refusing to be manacled or otherwise go 
with the gig. 

Ghast Number Two: Said she wasn't 
going to do it anymore, she did. Said she 
was tired of dungeons filled with such 
sexist sh-(First ghast slugs ghast num 
ber two, sending him spinning into a 
wall). 

First Ghast (snarling. loose flesh wig- 
gling in indignation): This is a family publi- 
cation! 

Ghast Number Two: Anyways, she 
says why not just rip them right away, 
open like? Why not just sneak up behind 
them and... 

At this point the Lady Vampire whacks 
a PC, preferably a cleric. She just 
seemed to appear out of thin air, gaining 
+ 2 to hit for the first round. She is wear- 
ing a tight-fitting red satin bodice, the lac- 
ing of which threatens to give way any 
second, black hip boots and black 
cocktail-length gloves. She is not at all 
happy about the hack's (area 13) choice of 
clothing. 

The ghasts join the attack. 

Vampire: AC 1: MV 12"/18"; HD 
8+3; hp 44: #AT 1; Damage ld6 + 4; 
THACO 10 ( + 2 Strength Bonus) UPC: 
Seductive Lady Vampire Mad As Hell 
About Her Role And Not Going To Take It 
Anymore. Vampires are affected only by 
magical weapons. Vampires may use 
their gaze to charm their victims. the vic- 
tim taking a -2 penalty to the saving 
throw vs. spell. Vampires can drain two 


65 
















experience le vels with their touch; this 
Lady Vampire is wearing gloves, and the 
drain is not effective as long as she wears 
her gloves. 

She is very angry. She will not take off 
her gloves the first time she is very an 
gry. While she is very angry her blows, in 
addition to doing ld6 + 4 points of dam 
age, will stun the victim for ld4 rounds of 
combat. Stunned characters can do noth- 
ing but make silly sound effects. 

The PCs might try to calm the Lady 
Vampire. If they are completely success 
ful, the Lady Vampire will stop her at- 
tacks and the attacks of the ghasts. If the 
players role play the negotiation well, 
they should be successful. If they offer 
the Lady Vampire something decent to 
wear, they have a 40% chance of calming 
her even if they have not role played well. 
But if they insult her or make fun of her. 
she will again become very angry. And 
this time the gloves are coming off. 

When calm, the Lady Vampire tells the 
history of the Temple of Really Bad Dead 
Things, unless the PCs show absolutely 
no interest. She knows the Code Reader 
exists and she knows of its powers, but 
as she is cursed by Genericus Brant, she 
has never been able to find it. 

Area 5: The Room of Death 
Warmed Over 


The blue walls are covered with 
threadbare tapestries of a darker blue. 
In the center of one tapestry is a red 
heraldic shield illustrated with a black- 
bereted skuli gripping a dagger in its 
teeth. The motto ribbon reads "Death 
from Everywhere." 


Once the party enters the room 7 a re- 
venant will begin to materialize, taking 
three phases to form completely. 

Revenant: AC 10; MV: 9"; FTR 15; 
HD 8 hp 37; #AT 1; Dmg 2d8; THACO 
12; AL N; UPC: Extremely Tough Un- 
dead Misused By Designer Who Gave It 
Far Too Much Stuff And Then Placed It In 
A Poorly Designed Encounter. 

The revenant is a gaunt corpse with 
pallid skin drawn tightly over hollow 


cheekbones, wearing a black beret. The 
beret has a patch labeled "Fiends For 
ever." On each hånd is a large brass and 
glass ring that looks a lot like class rings. 
The revenant appears with a dagger in its 
teeth, although it will immediately drop 
the dagger as revenants never resort to 
the use of weapons. The revenant is im 
mune to all weapons, including magical 
weapons. It cannot be tumed and is not 
affected by holy symbols, holy water, or 
any other religious paraphemalia. A re 
venant can regenerate 3 hit points per 
round, unless it has been destroyed by 
buming. It is immune to gas and acid. 

It attacks by locking its claw-like hånds 
around its victim's throat to strangle him, 
not letting go until the victim or the reve 
nant is destroyed. It has the saving 
throws and fighting ability of a 15th-level 
fighter. 

The ring on its left hånd is a ring of fire 
resistance that adds + 3 to the revenant's 
saving throw vs. fire attacks, taking one- 
quarter damage if it makes the saving 
throw, one-half damage otherwise. The 
ring on its right hånd is a class ring from 
Eastem Negative Material Plane Univer- 
sity, class of 721. 

If the adventurers are still in the room 
when the revenant forms, the vile crea- 
ture will ask them "Are any of you my 
killers?" If any of the PCs answers yes, 
or if they attack the revenant, the crea- 
ture will attack them with a rusty shriek, 
not to men tion its devastating grip. 

If the party answers no, and leaves the 
revenant alone, the revenant will pause, 
then ask the question again, explaining 
that he really cannot attack the party un 
less at least one of them claims to be his 
killer or else attacks him. Continuing in a 
voice which is both creepy and calm, the 
revenant will mention that if he does not 
attack the party there is nothing else that 
can happen in this encounter; wouldn't 
that be boring? If the party decides to tan 
gle with the revenant...well. good luck to 
them. 

If the party leaves the room before the 
creature forms, it will wait in the room 
until the adventurers return to ask them 
the question. 


Area 6: The Code Reader Room 


The doorway opens onto a room filled 
with rows of dark-stained pews. The 
ceiling of the vaulted dorne rises to ob- 
scurity beyond the range of vour light 
sources. On a dais sits a peculiar 
stone, glass, and metal altar, behind 
which there are dozens of shelves 
filled with white objects with green 
stripes. 


The altar looks like the checkout line at 
your local supermarket, with the con- 
veyor belt leading to the optical plate that 
reads UPC codes. Beneath this plate is a 
truncated oval about two thirds again the 
size of a hånd, the truncated edge cov 
ered with a gray-tinted crystal; the code 
reader mentioned by the built-in display 
that shows the result of a UPC. Currently 
it is hooked up so that it also shows the 
result of its scan on the screen above a 
cash register. 

Removing the code reader without 
damaging it requires the characters to 
make two Dexterity Checks on ld20s. If 
two consecutive rolis are less than or 
equal to the removing character's Dex 
terity, the reader is removed. If a charac 
ter fails a roli, he must add 3 to his next 
roll if he wishes to continue to remove the 
code reader. If two consecutive rolis are 
failed, the code reader is rumed. Each roll 
takes one round, and a character may 
stop after a Dexterity check in order to 
let another character have a crack at it. 

The code reader can decode the UPC 
symbols found throughout the Temple of 
Really Bad Dead Things. To decode the 
UPC on a monster, the wielder of the 
code reader must declare that he is trying 
to decode the monster's UPC and make a 
successful attack roll against the mon 
ster. If the player character is successful, 
read him the UPC description. Read it to 
him slowly, but only read it to him once 
per successful hit. 

In addition to decoding the UPCs, the 
code reader gives its owner the power of 
command over the decoded creatures. 
To command a creature, the possessor of 
the code reader must address the crea- 


66 

















ture by its full UPC descripdon. For ex- 
ample. if the code reader wielder were 
attempting to order the wraiths in this 
room to leave his party alone he would 
have to command them by saying, "Fly- 
ing Undead Stupid Enough To Attack A 
Party Far Tougher Than They, leave my 
party alone!" 

If a character messes up the name of a 
creature he has not yet commanded, it ig- 
nores the command. If the creature had 
been previously commanded, the wield- 
er's hold on the creature is broken. The 
creature may now do as it wishes until it 
is again read by the code reader. 

The shelves are lined with generic gro- 
cery products: dishwashing liquid, peas, 
com flakes, bathroom tissue, creamed 
com, beer, disinfectant, greeting cards, 
com chips.. ,you know the sort of s tuff. The 
shelves display a sign that reads "You are 
being watched. Shoplifters will be prose- 
cuted to the fuBest extent of the law." 

Scanning the generic goods across the 
code reader causes their descripdon and 
price to be displayed on the code reader, 
and if not disconnected, on the cash reg 
ister display. The goods range in price 
from one to 20 silver pieces. 

If the party takes goods off the shelves 
and does not pay for them, they will be at- 
tacked by the 30 wraiths hiding in the 
shadows of the dorne. 

30 Wraiths: AC 4: MV 12"/24"; HD 
5+3; hp 28. 25. 24. 22. 22. 22, 22. 22. 
22. 21, 20. 20. 20. 20,19. 19. 18, 17, 16 
15. 15.15. 15,15,14,14,14,12,12,11; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6; THACO 15; AL LE; 
UPC: Flying Undead Stupid Enough To 
Attack A Party Far Tougher Than They. 

Wraiths are vulnerable only to silver 
weapons (which do half damage) or magi- 
cal weapons. Wraiths are powerless in 
full sunlight. The touch of a wraith will 
drain the target of one level of experi- 
ence. 

The wraiths will descend in groups of 
10 per round. If the party happens to 
have a clerical continual light going, the 
wraiths lose their ability to drain le vels, 
and attack at - 3 modifier on their attack 
rolis. A lesser light spell will penalize the 
wraiths by -2 to attack, but will not af- 
fect their ability to drain le vels. 


While they attack, the wraiths hiss 
phrases such as "Crime does not pay, 
young man," and "You are going to have 
to live with this for the rest of your life," 
and "Shoplifting is stealing " If the char- 
acters pay for the goods, the wraiths let 
them go, at least this time. 

Area 7: The Empty Room 


The sturdy wooden door to this room 
is locked. Hung on the door is a sign 
reading "Positively No Admittance 
For Adventurers. Go Away." Painted 
in large sloppy letters all around the 
sign are the phrases "This means 
you," "Go Away," "Kill someone 
else's monsters," "Don't even 
THINK about going in." 


The room inside is empty. The party 
can hear the sound of a typewriter key 
board clacking away. If they enter the 
room, the sound of the keyboard slows 
down, becomes more sporadic, and then 
stops. After a few moments of silence, 
the party hears a strained, distant voice, 
as if the speaker were at the end of a long 
brass speaking tube. 

"Great, just great, you guys have broken 
my concentration. How am I supposed to 
make deadline if some squamous...no 
sorry, I mean famous, adventurers come 
storming through before 1 can finish the 
blasted dungeon?" The voice is that of the 
hack in area 13. He will impatiently expiain 
that he just hasn't had the time to fill in 
every detail yet, that the editor wants it 
tumed in tonight. and would they piease 
leave him alone. If the party outstays its 
welcome, the hack will write in a whirlwind 
which dumps them back in a random room. 
Roli ld6 and place the party in the appropri- 
ately numbered room. 

Area 8: The Other Empty Room 


The strong iron door into this room is 
locked. On the door is a plaque that 
says "Stay Out." Scrawled over the 
door are the words, "I really mean it 
this time, guys." 


If the party enters the room they will 
hear the sounds of a keyboard clacking 
away. As they examine the featureless 
room they will hear the keyboard pound- 
ing away furiously. As they watch. wet 
dripping stalactites and stalagmites ap- 
pear, and a small shining pool of a silvery 
liquid wells up from the floor, and... 
and...the party then hears a vigorous 
scratching sound, followed by a tearing 
and a crumpling of paper. The features of 
the room fade and disappear. There is the 
rapid, rhythmic sound of fingers rapping 
on a desktop. The hack (area 13) speaks. 

"So...you are here. How exciting for 
me. Deadline is really close, guys. You 
know what a deadline is, right? It's the 
line beyond which something dies. Prob- 
ably me. So if you bright, resourceful ad 
venturers could leave me alone in my 
predicament...wait a second! Maybe you 
could help me out!" 

The hack will ask the PC s to describe a 
really exciting room setting, one full of at- 
mosphere and visual detail. He will also 
ask for a fabulous treasure and a hideous 
monster. The hack will cajole, wheedle, 
and otherwise egg on the Creative juices 
of the players to come up with something 
really nasty. 

As the party comes to a consensus, the 
room will begin to appear. The hack will 
take the monster description given him 
by the party, make it undead (this is the 
Temple of Really Bad Dead Things, after 
all), and unleash it on the players. You will 
have to create the monster's characteris- 
tics from your players' descriptions. If 
they describe a really wimpy monster, 
have the hack sav something like "hey, 
yeah and then the critter turns out to be 
filled with enough anti-matter, that the 
destruction of the thing blows the whole 
dungeon apart! " and let the players try to 
subdue it without killing it. Of course, the 
editors would never allow a single entry 
in an anthology have the capacity to de- 
stroy all of the other levels in the anthol 
ogy. but your players don't have to know 
that. 

As for the treasure, the hack will say he 
wanted something more original, like 2d6 
x 1,000 gold pieces and a sword +1, +3 
against all monsters whose tyj>e-names 


67 











merchandise centering around the char 
acter sent to marketing. Bubble bath, pa- 
per towels, diet soft drinks, hats, shoes, 
pencil sets, three-ringed binders, break 
fast cereal, monthly fan magazines, cos- 
tumes...anything vou can think of is fair 
game. Sales of the player character line 
should be superior to those of other crea- 
tures from the Temple of Really Bad 
Dead Things. 

Area 10: The Library 


Large double doors of polished birch 
open onto a short hallway of the ever- 
present blue stone. The floor is cov 
ered with finely woven rugs showing 
people reading intently in uncomforta- 
ble cubicles. 


In case they must know, the rugs are 
worth 1,150 gp apiece and there are 
three of them. They weigh 15 pounds 
apiece. 

The library proper begins under the 
huge dorne marked by the 10. The dorne 
rises over eight storeys, intricate iron 
and silver work containing hundreds of 
panels of stained glass that depict scenes 
of men and women painting, singing, 
sculpting, writing, engaging in every 
form of Creative art. The stained glass 
murals are stunning when sunlight 
streams through them; of course, since 
the temple was built underground, your 
players will just have to take your word 
for it. The murals look sickly with the uni 
form blue glow behind them. 

There are 10 exits from the dorne. The 
entrance from the hallway is unmarked, 
but each of the other nine have a statue of 
a woman built into a niche beside the exit. 
The statues are labeled with a name writ- 
ten in common and a UPC code. The nine 
statues are: 

1. Calliope, UPC: Heroic or Epic Po 
etry. Engraved in the base of the statue 
are pictures of a plumed pen and a lute. 

2. Clio, UPC: History. Pictured in the 
base of the statue are a laurel wreath and 
a scroll. 

3. Erato. UPC: Love and Marriage Po 
etry. Carved in the base of the statue is a 


representation of a lyre. 

4. Euterpe, UPC: Music and Lyric Po 
etry. Impressed in the column supporting 
the statue is the image of a flute. 

5. Melpomene. UPC: Tragedy. Em- 
bossed on the base is a mask caught in an 
expression of extreme sadness (tragic 
mask) and a thick-soled high boot (bus 
kin) that was wom by actors in ancient 
times. 

6. Polyhymnia. UPC: Sacred Songs 
and Rhetoric. The base of the statue has 
a bas relief of a veil. 

7. Terpsichore, UPC: Dance. Sculpted 
from the base are a crown of laurel and a 
pair of cymbals. 

8. Thalia, UPC: Comedy. Etched on 
the base of the statue are a shepherd's 
staff and a comic mask-a mask that ap- 
pears to be laughing. 

9. Urania, UPC: Astronomy. Emplaced 
in the base are a small brass globe and a 
pair of compasses. 

The statues indicate what topics may 
be found in the sections of the library to 
which their exits lead. If your players are 
interested in technical manuals, they are 
just out of luck. 

Now you may be asking yourself, 
" Why Greek muses in a temple dedicated 
to an imaginarv deity named Genericus 
Brant?" Well, um...truth is, every hack 
knows that if you want to add some class 
to an adventure, you reach for some clas- 
sical mythology. The hack in area 13 is no 
exception. 

In the center of the domed area is a 
large circulation desk. About the desk are 
flitting four will-o-wisps. 

4 Will-o-wisps: AC -8; MV 18"; HD 
9; hp 68. 53,44.40,37; #AT 1; Dmg2d8; 
THACO 12; AL CE; UPC: Icky Monster 
Made Cutesy By The Hack, With Per 
mission Of The Designer. 

Will-o-wisps are immune to all spells 
except protectioa tom evil, magic mis 
sile, and maze. They cannot be tumed. 

These will-o-wisps are involved in a 
book hunt. When the party enters the 
dorne, the creatures stop moving for a 
moment. In thin. quavery voices the will- 
o-wisps begin to speak. 

"Corporeals! Someone who can pick 


up books!" 

"At last! At last we can play 'book 
hunt'." 

"Come on guys, will you play with us, 
pretty piease?'' 

"Yeah, we haven't been able to play 
'book hunt' in years." 

The will-o-wisps will not attack unless 
their lives are threatened. They will be 
shocked and hurt if the adventurers do 
not wish to play with them. Do your best 
cheerful-but-spoiled-rotten kid imitation 
when playing the will-o-wisps. They re 
ally want to play. 

To conduct the book hunt, the party and 
the will-o-wisps divide up into two teams. 
The ghostly voice of the chief librarian (an 
entity who exists in sound only) tells the 
teams the tide of the book to look for, and 
Ilte first team back with the correct book 
wins. There are three rounds, with a dif- 
ferent book each round. The will-o-wisps 
need the player characters because they 
cannot pick up the books. 

The will-o-wisps will head in a random 
direcdon (roil ldlO), going through the 
numbered exit. They are just too excited 
to think clearly, and they cannot read 
Common, which puts them at a distinet 
disadvantage when it comes to finding 
books. If the party members are not fol- 
lowing them, they will rejoin the heroes in 
ld4 rounds, darting in and out of the book 
shelves trying to find the proper book. be- 
ing very vocal about their search. 

To find a book. a character may either 
use his Intelligence or his Dexterity. The 
player roils ld20 every tura. If the roil is 
less than or equal to his chosen character- 
istic the character gains points equal to the 
difference. For example, a magician de- 
cides to use his Intelligence to discover 
the organizadon of the library shelves. His 
intelligence is 17, and the player rolis a 12. 
The character has gained five points that 
tum. To find a book a team must have at 
least two characters with at least 25 
points, one character's total gained 
through Dexterity, the other's through In 
telligence. A single character might be 
able to garn at least 25 points twice and get 
the books, but in that case the Intelligence 
points must come first. 

If a team uses the UPC code or their 


69 













own knowledge of the muses to pick the 
correct corridor in which to begin their 
search, modify their characters' roils by 
-3, making it easier to find the book. 

Now racing around the library with 
loony will-o-wisps may be exciting 
enough...nah, we didn't think so either. 
Don't forget you have the wonderful 
Random Monster Generator with which 
to spice things up. The monsters might 
have several reasons for being there: 

1. Perhaps they are having a serious 
discussion on the philosophies of Generi- 
cus Brant. They would not appreciate be 
ing interrupted by a group of adventurers 
rampaging through the book shelves. 

2. The chief librarian has checked, and 
"according to our records," the adven 
turers have been long overdue. The 
monsters have been sent to collect the 
fine and reshelve the party. 

3. Are the adventurers making a lot of 
noise as they ransack the stacks? Every- 
one knows you are not allowed to make 
noise in a library. The creatures have 
been sent to escort the PC s from the li 
brary. 

4. Oh No! The hack (area 13) made a 
mistake; the adventurers hear the sound 
of clackmg keys, and then a number of 
displaced beasties arrive to harass the 
party. Maybe the hack will get it right 
next time. 

The Books And The Prizes 

Round One: "Ode to the Ground Snails 
of Greyhawk, Vfolume VIII" by Snagly 
Hairtooth. This most tedious poem is lo- 
cated in the Euterpe (lyric poetry) sec- 
tion. Retrieving the book is worth one 
point. The prize is a scroll with three cure 
serious wound spells. 

Round Two: Popular Dervish Whirling 
Blade Tangoes of the Northern Deserts 
by Horace Oneleg. The book is located in 
the Terpsichore (dance) section. Retriev 
ing this book is worth two points. The 
prize is a wand of digging containing 25 
charges of the dig spell, and a matching 
set of earrings (500 gp). 

Round Three: A Complete Illustrated 
History of Bureaucradc Forms, Including 
the Recent Conversions Utilizing the 
Q313 by Ernst Magor. This is located in 


the Clio (history) section. Retrieving the 
book of forms is worth three points. The 
prize is a teleport scroll, a scroll with five 
linked word of recall spells. When read, 
the scroll casts five simultaneous word of 
recall spells, sending the party back to 
the Citadel Union on the surface. This 
scroll is readable by all characters except 
thieves. 

Whichever team has the most points at 
the end of the three rounds is the grand 
champion. The will-o-wisps had not 
thought of a grand prize, so they will offer 
the winning ptayers the book on bureau- 
cratic forms. If there is a tie, the will-o- 
wisps will crown as champions the team 
that won two of the hunts. and give the 
book to the team that found it as a conso- 
lation prize. 

The book contains an explanation of the 
various forms requested by Ernst Magor 
in the trademark room (area 9); "With 
the modemization of the Civil Service of 
the Worshipers of Genericus Brant, a 
move that was long overdue in the mod 
est opinion of this author, although 1 must 
admit I am qualified to speak to such a 
topic, the forms were standardized. The 
following forms are identical except for 
their names and colorations: 

27-ABK on yellow parchment 

FIL-X14 on blue parchment 

IK721.1A on purpie parchment with 
gold thread 

Q313 on white parchment 

In compliance with the Cyclopedia of 
Proper Procedure, volume 17A, Section 
2113, Paragraph 8.8.11, all forms must 
still be filed to obtain a trademark. Of 
course, all forms must be requisitioned 
before they may be filled out." 

In the back of the book are three REQ- 
UISITION 80 forms on orange parch 
ment. 

REQUISITION 80 

Required Forms Quantity 

(piease circle) (piease print) 

27-ABK 

F1L-X14 

IK721.1A 

Q313 


These forms are for record keeping 
purposes only. Applicants must provide 
their own forms, except Q313. Have a 
nice day. 

Area 11: The Gate to the Rest of 
the Place 


There is a gate that completely blocks 
the passageway. The gate is con- 
structed af the same blue-amethyst 
stone as the walls, and its four-inch- 
thick bars are set just two inches 
apart. There is a Steel box with lots of 
buttons on the north wali. 


The box has red, yellow, green, and 
gold buttons, 10 of each. Each set of but 
tons is numbered from 0 through 9. The 
readout on the display has room for five 
digits. When a button is pushed the num 
ber of the appropriate color lights up on 
the display. Undemeath the box is a long 
UPC code, which when decoded says, 
"The hack writer has introduced a red 
herring. The buttons have nothing to do 
with opening the gate. Just say 'Generi 
cus Brant is an okay guy,' and enter." 

When the party says the phrase the 
gate will open to the labored grinding of 
metal gears. The gate cannot be lifted, 
but it can be broken. It has AC 0 and 120 
hit points (remember the wall is of Ma- 
giflection construction). 

Area 12: Knight of the Living 
Dead and Spare Parts 


The door to this room is sealed with 
intricate runes. The runes are compli- 
cated pattems of twisting lines that in- 
tertwine and connect with one another 
to completely surround the door. On 
the copper surface of the door are four 
sets of etched lines. Each set of 
etched lines forms the holy symbol of 
Genericus Brant. The runes are con- 
nected to the holy symbol by finely 
traced lines in the copper. The pol 
ished copper is given an extra sheen 
by a coating of ice. 


70 










The holy symbols are UPC codes. 
They may be read with the code reader. 
At the DM's discretion a few of the words 
may be blurry due to the effect of the ice. 

Symbol One: "Beyond this door waits 
a death knight. Beware, for his powers 
are greater than any you have seen in this 
temple. If not, what are you complaining 
about?" 

Symbol Two: "In yon chamber lies the 
Holy Wire of Genericus Brant, spun from 
gold. The wire has no efficacy against un- 
dead, but it doth look impressive." 

Symbol Three: "Besides the designer 
believeths you might have some use for 
gold wire elsewhere in this adventure, 
and so had to put it in somewhere." 

Symbol Four: "Oh yes, we almost for- 
got. The door is a powerful ward that pre 
vents the death knight from leaving the 
chamber. In addition it will allow any 
cleric or paladin to utter a holy word spell 
once every 10 minutes, as long as the 
spellcaster is in the chamber. The 10- 
minute count starts from the first holy 
word uttered." 

All of the information is correct. The 
death knight awaits them inside. Be 
aware that this encounter is deadly: if the 
death knight gets to act for even one 
round after combat is started, many of 
your players can mail their character 
sheets to Paraguay: they won't be need- 
ing them anymore. Some quick thinking 
and a little bit of luck is necessary to dis- 
patch the death knight. 

Death Knight: AC 0; MV 12"; HD 9 
(10 sided): hp 70; #AT 1, Dmg ldlO + 6 
(Strength bonus): THACO: 9: AL CE; 
UPC: Horrid Magic-Resisting Undead 
Who Is Immune To The Power Of The 
Code Reader. 

The death knight has a magic resist- 
ance of 75%, and if an 11 or lower is 
rolied on percentage dice, any magical 
spell cast is reflected back at its caster. 
The death knight cannot be tumed or dis- 
pelled and has the power over undead of a 
6th-level cleric. The death knight has 
18(00) Strength, and is armed with a two- 
handed sword. The death knight contin- 
ually generates fear in a 5' radius, can 
create a wall of ice at will and has innate 


powers of detect magic and detect invisi- 
bility. Twice a day it can gate in demon 
type I (20%), type II (25%). type HI 
(30%). type IV (20%), or type VI (5%), 
the gate working 75% of the time (we bet 
your players will think it's a dam shame 
the Magiflection construction prevents 
the gate from working). It can dispel 
magic twice a day. Once a day it can use 
any one of the power word spells, a sym 
bol of pain/fear, and generate a 20-die 
fireball. For purposes of effect, a death 
knight's magic use is that of a 20th-level 
wizard. A holy word spell will stun the 
death knight rather than dispel him, as 
this death knight is of this plane. 

The death knight is immune to the 
commanding power of the code reader. 
but for all his contempt he is not immune 
to being trademarked. 

The icy coating on the door is from the 
wall of ice the death knight keeps up as a 
barrier. 

The room has murals depicting the his 
tory of the construction of the temple. 
The north wall shows dwarves carving 
out fine white marble from a huge moun- 
tain quarry. The east wall shows several 
dwarves surrounding a shimmering field 
that holds the death knight. One of the 
dwarves. whose smock has the name 
"Bessamo" stitched on it, is holding a 
beaker of blue liquid in his right hånd. and 
thin gold wire in his left. Some of the 
other dwarves are looking at the death 
knight. but most are regarding Bessamo. 

The southem panel shows spools of 
gold thread, the thread passing around 
and through the field holding the death 
knight. The other end of the thread is 
wrapped around a large block of white 
marble. Alchemists are covering the 
block with the blue liquid of Bessamo. 
Where they have treated the block it has 
transformed into the familiar blue stone 
of the temple. 

Beneath this last panel are six spools of 
gold thread, each spool being one foot in 
diameter. The spools rest on capped rods 
of the blue stone: the spools may be spun 
but they cannot be removed without con- 
siderable effort, and they turn quite 
slowly. It takes three rounds to acquire 
enough thread for a single 1K721.1A (on 


purpie parchment with gold thread). 

Each spool has 2,000 gp worth of gold 
thread. enough for several hundred 
IK721.1A's. 

Area 13: The Hack and Slash 


The cheap wooden door opens easily, 
revealing a room strewn with rubbish. 
There are paper cups and styrofoam 
sandwich containers, crushed alumi- 
num cans and empty bottles of every 
size. A piece of rope hangs from the 
air in the middle of the room. The 
room has the haif-smell. half-taste of 
bumt coffee. The incessant sound of 
rapidly clicking keys reverberates off 
the walls. To one side is a large sieve- 
like device, and behind that huge black 
wooden vat full of a pulpy mush. In 
front of the vat is a pit ftill of murky wa- 
ter. There is a rack of oversized tools 
and pieces of cloth as well as shelved 
beakers on the wall opposite the 
sieve. 


The beakers contain colored dyes that 
may be used to color the paper created by 
Slash (see below). There are beakers of 
red, yellow, blue, green, orange, and 
purpie dye. If the heroes have the gold 
thread, they may add the thread to the 
pulp used by Slash to create paper. They 
can then create the forms necessary for 
trademarking creatures or themselves. 

As the heroes enter the room. they will 
hear a voice shout, "Slash! Slash, I am 
running low on paper!" From behind the 
vat. an index finger the width of a strong 
man's thigh appears over the rim of the 
vat. It moves in a manner that suggests it 
is looking around, and then all five digits 
of a huge hånd can be seen beyond the 
rim of the vat. The hånd flexes and 
stretches as it wakes from its sleep, mak- 
ing a loud yawning sound. 

Slash: AC 2; MV 12"; MU 20: hp 50; 
#AT 1; Dmg As per Bigby's hånd spells; 
THACO Always Hits; AL N: UPC: Loyal 
Servant Of The Hack Who Is Included In 
Tilis Adventure For Reasons Of Humor 
So Weak They Scarcely Deserve Men- 
tion. 








Slash is a customized permanent ver 
sion of the Bigby's hånd series of spells. 
He is capable of operating in the modes of 
any of the spells. He has a low Intelli 
gence of his own. and can be counted on 
to carry out orders that do not require too 
much initiative. Slash cannot cast any 
spells; his level is that of the magician 
who created him. 

Slash can sub-vocalize, making sounds 
but not words. Have Slash whimper, 
snarl, moan, quaver, whistle-just do not 
allow him to speak. 

Slash will fiercely protect the hack. 
Other than that he is just an 850-pound 
friendly, playful bundle of energy. 

Once Slash is fully awake he will grab a 
handful of the goop in the vat and throw it 
against the sieve. Then he grabs the 
sieve, shakes it a bit, and lowers it into 
the pit. He sloshes the sieve around, 
raises the dipping frame every few 
sloshes, and then removes the sieve en- 
tirely. Grabbing two press cloths and a 
roller from the pulp, he then props the 
sieve against the wall, and while hum- 
ming a simple tune he fans the paper until 
it is dry enougb to handle. Slash then gets 
a spear-sized cutting blade from the rack. 
and props it against the wall. Picking up 
the new paper, Slash twists from side to 
side as if examining his work, making 
thoughtful "hmmm" noises. Finally, he 
drifts over to the cutting tool, throws the 
paper into the air, grabs the tool, and with 
a flurry of deft motions cuts the paper into 
pieces. Slash drops the tool, picks up the 
paper, and heads to the rope. If the party 
has not announced themselves before 
now, Slash notices them, and whistles 
exdtedly up the rope. 

The sound of clacking keys becomes ir- 
regular, slows, and then halts entirely. 
The hack is irritated at being interrupted. 

The Hack: AC 4 (leather and -4 Dex 
adjustment); MV 24" ("Gotta be fast to 
make a living in this business"); HD 12; 
hp 64; #AT 1; Dmg ld4: THACO 9; SA & 
SD; Gains +3 to his initiative roil, plus 
see below; AL N; UPC: The Evil Pres- 
ence Who Became A Hack As A Result 
Of A Curse From Genericus Brant. 

The hack appears to be a balding thin- 
faced man of thirty. He is no more titan 


four and a half feet tall, with an ampie tire 
around his middle. He wears small wire- 
rimmed glasses. The hack lives in a 
cramped little space atop a permanent 
rope trick. There is a sleeping pallet, a 
desk and desk lamp, a chair, and a pecu- 
liar typewriter of dwarven construction. 

The hack is immune to the code reader 
("Look, you think I could get hurt by my 
own materiai?''), although he may be 
trademarked. If attacked he will leap to 
his typewriter and write the attackers out 
of the adventure. Poof. Gone. 

The hack is cursed to continue to write 
"The Temple of Really Bad Dead 
Things" again and again. Every time an 
adventuring party comes through and 
changes something, even killing a mon 
ster, he has to rewrite it so it retums to 
its original form. He lives in constant fear 
of deadlines and "The Editors," beings of 
great power he has never seen but who 
oversee all of his work. He sometimes 
gets to write other adventures, but they 
are always derivative of someone else's, 
such as his rejected manuscript "Spar- 
rowloft." Maybe if he wrote something 
about rescuing a princess before a horde 
of undead stormed the land... 

The hack will apologize for not writing 
in an exit to this level (the hack has not 
thought through how to use the trade- 
mark room), and if bribed, might be able 
to write in an exit that was not originally 
there, although he will be sure that The 
Editors will delete it, and perhaps him- 
self, if he is not careful. 

The best way for a party to ingratiate 
itself with the hack is to praise his work 
on "The Temple of Really Bad Dead 
Things." If the praise is not obvious, bla- 
tant hoo-ha (well, maybe even if it is), 
then the hack would be willing to alter 
small portions of the temple. 

The hack will moan about his fail from 
greatness, rue the day he set foot in this 
temple, and offer the adventurers any- 
thing they may want if they can think of a 
way to get him out of here. If the charac- 
ters think to trademark the hack, the 
hack will leave them his typewriter and 
three pieces of paper. With this type 
writer and those three sheets of paper, 
the party may rewrite any three scenes 


that occurred in the "Temple of Really 
Bad Dead Things." If you are feeling par- 
ticularly generous. you might allow the 
players to rewrite other scenes in this 
dungeon as well. Don't worry. The Edi 
tors can always disallow any grandiose 
changes the party tries to make, scratch- 
ing out the new scene with a ghostly red 
pen. 



72 





18 Level 7: queen of the 
HoneyBee hive 



Greyhawk Dungeon-Level 7 




Sack in Nets 


Tubes lo Area C 


itgwwnifl iB s anws 

Scale: 1 Hex =10 Feet 


Encounter Setting 

Long ago a certain demon queen of spi- 
ders (who shall remain nameless) har- 
assed a certain region of Greyhawk (also 
nameless) using many varied and sundry 
creatures (likewise unmentionable) to do 
her dirty work. Her web of intrigue and 
deceit was renowned and feared-it was 
rumored that she even had her own demi- 
plane to play with! Not wishing to be out- 
done in front of their mutual friends 
(outer planar society is quite elitist after 
all), a certain overweight bee queen 
started her own following and rented 
some space below the castle (the unfor- 
tunate broker is currently "resting" 
somewhere within the lair). After she'd 
redecorated her Iittle demi-hive, as she 


calls it, a number of now-ardent sup- 
porters were coerced into joining the 
club. Her dreadful plots and schemes are 
close to fruition and her wretched hive's 
stingers are poised to pollinate the world. 

The party may have been led here by 
the massive increase in killer bee attacks 
around the world, the global shortages of 
honey (caused by striking bee colonies, 
agitated to insurrection by agents of the 
bee queen). or the fates (read: blind bum- 
bling or stupidity). In any case, the treat 
is critical and millions of grubbv Iittle chil- 
dren are depending on the return of their 
honey as soon as possible, and millions of 
equaUy grubby parents are tired of their 
whining. 

The party should arrive here via a 
sweetly scented wax chute, which will 
unceremoniously deposit tliem at point A 


on the map. The DM may also teleport 
them here if they swat a bee or wasp any- 
where in the vicinity of the castle. 

Their goal is to recover the candle key 
from area 4 and joumey throughout the 
hive until they find a way to use it. They 
can then meet and defeat the queen of the 
honeybees herself (in area 24)! 

Walls within the complex resemble wax 
but are impervious to all attacks or spells 
(including passwall). They are diffusely lit 
from deep within. All doors are simply 
sliding panels of wall material. 

There are no random encounters with 
sillv monsters within the hive or ridicu- 
lous spell alterations. All monsters attack 
intruders immediately because of their 
uptight and stressed-out condition (there 
are very few females within the hive). 


73 










Area 1: B-Men Headquarters 

This chamber is the central headquar 
ters of the hive's secret police, the B- 
Men. These half man/half bee crearures 
are fully trained in all investigative tech- 
niques. They wear heavy black trench 
coats (with holes in the back for wings 
and stingers), big dark sunglasses, and 
black hats pulled down over their hideous 
features. They always "follow the book" 
even though they can never find it. 

Beings entering this chamber will be 
asked to "show their hall passes" (availa- 
ble at most high schools throughout the 
country). Characters without a hall pass 
are attacked. Any hall pass will do, since 
none of these bees have ever really seen 
one to begin with. They are therefore 
very unpopular with everybody and have 
eamed a reputation for obnoxiousness. 
All bees in this adventure will be found 
carrying little slips of paper signed by the 
mysterious Mrs. Abby Hoffman. Coun- 
terfeit hall passes are big business within 
the hive. 

10 B-Men agents (hornet half-breeds): 
AC 0 in flight, 2 when settled; MV 12"/ 
24"; HD 7; hp 50 each: #AT 2. gun and 
stinger; Dmg see below and ld4 plus poi- 
sons; THACO 13; AL NE; XP 500 each; 
SA poison and incapacitation as per giant 
hornet. Each agent has a hall pass in his 
hånd and a gun of honeyed globs promi 
nently bulging from beneath his trench 
coat. 

The preferred attack form of the B- 
men is to fly over their prey. stinging and 
shooting their guns of honeyed globs. 
The famed wand of viscid globs employed 
by the demon queen of spiders and her 
minions was actually stolen from the de 
sign employed here. The gun of honeyed 
globs is identical in function to the afore- 
mentioned wand (a patent suit has been 
taken up with Interplanar Spell-Users 
Congress, or I.S.U.C.). The gun resem- 
bles a german luger, circa 1940 (pat- 
terned from a war souvenir found in the 
wreckage of areas 23-29). Each has 100 
charges before combat begins (as Big 
Bee always keeps them fully charged). If 
aimed and the command words spoken 
(usually "bang, bang." "pow," or "stop 


or I'll shoot"), a single charge from the 
gun fires a glob of gooey, sticky, sweet 
honey up to 6" away. The gooey glob 
covers a circular area about five feet in di 
ameter. Those things within that area are 
permanently bonded to each other (hånds 
to weapons, arms to shields, armor to 
bodies, codpieces to cods, etc.). 

A successful saving throw vs. wands 
indicates that the target dodges and 
avoids the glob, but the glob will land 
somewhere-either behind the original 
target, or on the floor 10d6 feet beyond 
(leaving a sticky mass that will solidify in 
10 rounds). 

The bond created by this glob is ex- 
tremely strong. Strong monsters and in- 
dividuals will tear their own bodies apart 
before breaking the seal. Creatures with 
Intelligence of 7 or higher will be aware of 
this, but those of 2-6 Intelligence should 
get a saving throw to avoid tearing them 
selves apart. The globs can be dissolved 
by alcohol (or water). The amount found 
in ordinary wine is sufficient to free two 
glued areas (painfully if flesh is involved). 

The wand may be recharged by a 
magic-user of 7th or higher level. A full 
gun is worth 4,000 xp and 20,000 gp. 

Each agent has 4d40 pp in his pockets, 
is fond of singing the blues, and loves dry 
white toast, whole fried chickens, and a 
Coke. 

Area 2: Honeybear Lockup 

When the party enters here they will 
be attacked by a mad B-man who is frus- 
trated in his attempts to exact confes- 
sions from the criminals held within. In 
each of two cells is a werebear (in bear 
form). They are pleading mercifully for 
their jailer to give them some of the food 
he is carrying. 

As soon as the B-man sees the party he 
will boldly display a jar of sweet honey 
and a handful of roasted almonds, omi- 
nously (great DM control required here) 
proclaiming that "I'm gonna tempt your 
tummy with the taste of nuts and honey, 
werebears!" If any member of the party 
just happens to be a werebear, he must 
make a saving throw vs. spell (at -4) to 
avoid being forced into werebear form. 


Such a beast will be grabbed up quickly 
and thrown into an empty cell. 

If the party is obviously unimpressed 
with the B-man's ravings, he will attack. 
The werebears, if released, will aid the 
party until any large pool of honey is en- 
countered, whereupon the bears will sit 
down and gorge themselves until they 
blow up and die. 

Captain Cheer Eo the B-man jailer 
(hornet half-breed): AC 0 in flight, 2 
when settled; MV 12" /24"; HD 7; hp 50; 
MT 2, gun and stinger; Dmg see below 
and ld4 plus poisons; THACO 13; AL 
NE; XP 500; SA poison and incapacita 
tion as per giant hornet. Captain Eo has a 
hall pass in his pocket, a jar of honey and 
some almonds in his hånds, a gun of hon 
eyed globs beneath his trench coat, and 
one sequined glove that makes him look 
very stupid. 

2 Werebear prisoners: AC 2; MV 9"; 
HD 7+3; hp 50 , 46; MT 3; Dmg ld3/ 
Id3/2d4; THACO 12; AL CG; XP 1,325, 
1,285; SA hug (2d8); SD hit only by silver 
or magicaJ weapons. 

Besides the food items, there is noth- 
ing of value in here. 

Area 3: Company B 

The main militia of the B-men is sta 
tioned here. They will attack anyone who 
enters unless he is wearing the hat, coat, 
and sunglasses of an authorized agent. 

Green Hornet, captain of the B-men 
soldiers (hornet half-breed): AC 0 in 
flight. 2 when settled; MV 12"/24"; HD 
8; hp 64; MT 3, two guns and stinger: 
Dmg see below and ld4 plus poisons; 
THACO 12; AL NE; XP 600; SA poison 
and incapacitation as per giant hornet. 
The green hornet has a hall pass and two 
guns of honeyed globs that he can wield 
simultaneously. He wears a green trench 
coat and a green hat of fire resistance. 

40 B-men soldiers (hornet half- 
breeds): AC 0 in flight, 2 when settled; 
MV 12" /24"; HD 7; hp 48 each; MT 2, 
gun and stinger; Dmg see below and ld4 
plus poisons: THACO 13; AL NE; XP 
530 each; SA poison and incapacitation as 
per giant hornet. Each agent has a hall 
pass in his hånd and a gun of honeyed 


74 






globs prominently bulging from beneath 
his trench coat. 

The only treasure here is a yellow 
jacket of protection tom rain. 

Area 4: The Room That Lets the 
Party Make It to the 
Next Set of Rooms 

The party will enter this room to see 
just enough seats for them to sit in, be- 
hind a long table. Directly across from 
these are a like number of famous celebri- 
ties and evil villains from within the hive. 
A large ovoid-shaped man with a graying 
beard and poor eyesight will tefl the 
"gentie contestants" to take a seat for 
the game. An audience of 300 cheering 
spectators is on hånd for the event. 

300 Spectators: AC body 4, eyes 7; 
MV 10": HD 4+4: hp 35 each; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4 +1; THACO 15: AL LN; XP 
665 each: SA central eye reflects spells, 
four smaller eyes cast create food and 
water, cause serious wounds, paralyza- 
don ray, and telepathy, SD senses psionic 
disciplines, better initiative rolis: MR 
5%. The spectators are guarding their 
seats (as treasure) and won't relinquish 
them without a fight. 

Egg, master of ceremonies: AC 10; 
MV 1" roli; HD 1 hp; #AT 0; Dmg 0; 
THACO 21; AL LN; XP 5. The Egg is 
simply a rather wordy egg-shaped gen 
tleman hired by the bee queen to amuse 
her followers and confuse the party. He is 
a retired toy designer. 

The Bad Guys include Sting, Buzzy Al- 
drin, Steven Biko, Big Bee (area 10), 
Aunt Bee (queen of the hive) and B.B. 
King (her consort, both from area 24). 
The Good Guys are the party (statistics 
found on character sheets). 

The game consists of three sets of 
questions. One side must win two of the 
three sets to win the grand prizes. The 
first category deals with the anatomy of 
bees. The second round investigates the 
many habits of bees. The last round is de 
voted exclusively to the study of pole 
arms, their nomenclature. and relevance 
to all aspects of gaming (including eating, 
personal hvgiene, and planetary explora- 
tion). All three categories should be won 


handily by the Bad Guys and the party will 
be losers. 

During the last round, the DM should 
roli a secret Intelligence Check for each 
party member. Successful characters will 
notice that their opponents have been 
looking at their laps dunng this line of 
questioning. A protest by the party will 
reveal a large number of Unearthed Ar- 
cana volumes secreted undemeath the 
enemy table (conveniently open to the 
pole arms chapters). They will be dis- 
qualified and the party will get to go to the 
linal round in order to win the grand 
prizes. Their foes will vow vengeance be- 
fore they teleport away. 

The party will be asked three ques 
tions. Each correct answer gets them a 
prize. They have 30 seconds to answer 
each question. 

Question Hl: "What is your favorite 
color?" Any answer is correct, as long as 
they don't yell out more than one. "Un 
der Box Hl is a (tacky) hexagonal shaped 
wax candle, made of 10 different shades 
of green and orange! '' This is the true ob- 
ject of their quest and will allow the lucky 
party the opportunity to reach the upper 
level of the hive. 

Question H2: "What is your quest?" 
Again, any answer will do. "Behind Cur- 
tain #2 is a new chariot! The latest from 
Apolio Industries. Horses not included." 
What the characters do with this fine ve- 
hicle is up to them. It is worth 20,000 gp 
and runs like a dream. 

Question #3: "What is the best way to 
defeat a flumph?" The correct answer is 
"tum it upside down," or something to 
that effect. If the party manages this one, 
they get what's behind Door #3. Door #3 
is a portal to area 18 and ieads directly to 
the upper levels of the dungeon. 

Since it is unlikely that the party will get 
question H3, they will have five rounds to 
gather up their treasure before Egg 
waves them goodbye. The characters 
will hear a buzzing sound in their ears and 
will find themselves at point B on the 
map. 


Area 5: Gooey Guard Room 

The walls of this room are covered with 
sticky animated honey. The effects are 
identicaJ to an entangle speli cast at 20th 
level of ability. Any creatures other than 
bees that enter the chamber will be at- 
tacked. Magic resistance does not apply, 
since this is a living, but unintelligent sub- 
stance. The party must either wait out 
the effects if held or proceed onward 
while slowed. 

Area 6: Otto's Irresistible Dance 
Studio 

A dreadful ritual dance marathon is go- 
ing on in this large chamber. Hundreds of 
dexterous bees are performing the irre 
sistible dance. Their leader, Otto the 
Bee-Holder, keeps the rhythm going and 
severely chastises anyone who gets out 
of step. The party will be attacked by the 
bees and Otto when they enter. 

200 Samba Bees (trained giant bumble- 
bees): AC 5; MV 6" /24"; HD 6+4; hp 50 
each; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 plus poison; 
THACO 13; AL N; XP 1,000 each; SA 
poison stinger does 5d4 points of damage 
(save for 2d4 hp), characters are -1 to 
save (strong poison) 

Otto (beholder): AC 0/2/7; MV 3"; HD 
75 hp (about 18 HD); #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; 
THACO 6; AL LE; XP 14,400; SA 
magic; SD anti-magic ray. Otto wears one 
large dark sunglass over his eye and talks 
with lisp. The shades don't affect his speli 
casting in any way. 

This is one of the most dangerous 
rooms in the hive. Every round. a party 
member will be affected by an Otto 's irre- 
sisdble dance speli (at 20th-!evel effect), 
while Otto kills these helpless characters 
with death and flesh to stone spells. Ini 
tiative and a quick cleaving of Otto are 
necessary here. 

Otto almost has his latest chorus line 
ready (a bee line if you will), and has re- 
ceived his first payment in weeks. Fifty 
rubies worth 250 gp each are hidden be 
neath some pink legless leotards in the 
southeast comer of the room. 


75 















Area 7: The Not-So-Funny 
Funhouse Mirror 

This is just another one of those nasty 
mirrors of opposition parties love so 
dearly, except that it was made some 
time ago by a rather chaotic old soul who 
put a little twist in it. 

Characters will meet their doubles as 
usual, except that they will be randomly 
distorted some way. They might be twice 
as tall and skinny, or short and fat. A long 
neck or legs is also humorous. In addi 
tion. the party member will be equally 
mutated for the duration of the battie. In 
any case, there will be no change on the 
effects of combat on the participants. 

When the character wins against his 
double, award full experience and retum 
him to his normal shape. If the mirror is 
inspected, an inscription that reads "Al- 
ways Be Yourself' is engraved along the 
top. The mirror can be removed if the 
party wants it. 

Area 8: Great Honey Chamber 

This massive room is filled with honey, 
being purified by some ancient and un- 
known process (strainers). Hundreds of 
honey bees are guarding this area to keep 
their treasure pure and uncontaminated. 
Three clear hexagonal tubes hang verti- 
cally from the ceiling and the bees send 
garbage up these suction pipes every 
round. The party must enter these tubes 
to reach point C on the map. 

150 Giant Worker Honevbees: AC 6; 
MV 9"/30"; HD 3 + 1; hp 20 each; MT 
1; Dmg ld3 plus poison; THACO 16; AL 
N; XP 230 each; SA sting once with poi 
son that does 5d4 points of damage (2d4 if 
save is successful). 

The tubes are made of the same mate- 
rial as the walls and if examined closely a 
small silver plaque can be found on each 
one. The inscription on the plaque reads 
"Another fine product of Wile E. Wonk- 
Ah (broker and inventor). Inc." There is 
no treasure in this room. The bees will 
not pursue into the tubes. If a character is 
killed or knocked unconscious, the bees 
will throw him up the tubes. 


Area 9; W.A.S.P. 

The priests of the hive are part of the 
organisation known only as W.A.S.P. 
("We Are So Powerful"). These are the 
only human followers of the bee queen 
(three men and two women) and they are 
unique in a number of respects. 

5 Human bee-following priests: AC 4, 
banded mail; MV 6"; Cl 10; hp 80 each: 
MT 1; Dmg 1-8, stinger s word plus spe 
cial; THACO 4; AL NE; XP 2,000 each: 
SA spells, stinger swords; SD spells. 
Each has a longsword ofstinging +2 that 
paralyzes any being hit for ld4 +1 rounds 
unless a successful saving throw vs. 
wands is rolied (at a -4 penalty), and 
wears painted banded armor, silly spring- 
like antennae and painted sunglasses. 
Spells: 

Level 1: cure lighi wounds, purify 
honey, penetrate disguise. sanctuary 

Level 2: hold person (x2). silence 15' 
radius, chant 

Level 3: create royal jelly (for the 
queen), dispel magic. feign death 

Level 4: improved gian f insect (also 
works on already giant bees to further in- 
crease size), s pell immunity (Sreball), 
protection tom good 10' radius 

Level 5: (lame strike, animate dead 
monsters 

Each priestess wears her hair in a bee- 
hive and all of the priests have a pair of 
decorative antennae (platinum, worth 
1,000 per set). They all wear banded mail 
(painted in yellow and black stripes) with 
the detachable sword ofstinging attached 
to the rears. Usually the priests are re- 
sponsible for purifying the honey and 
healing boo-boos, but they can fight if 
forced to do so. When combat begins, 
they will retreat to the rear of the cham 
ber, past a large rock in the center of the 
room. 

Rock Lobster: AC 0; MV 20" shuffle; 
HD 10; hp 80; MT 3, claw/claw/bite; 
Dmg 2dl0/2dl0/ldl0: THACO 10; AL 
N: XP 1,200; SD camouflages as large 
rock. Usually found at the bot tom of the 
sea, this large specimen is living it up with 
free food, "just for sitting around." He is 
semi-intelligent and about 15 feet in diam 


eter when in lobster form. Rock lobsters 
are fond of rock music (especially new 
wave). 

The rock lobster is a rare type of sea 
creature that arrived with the new wave 
of crustacean-like monsters jamming the 
oceans. 

Of course, areas 10 and 11 will be al 
erted immediately to any intrusion. 

Area 10: Attack of the Killer 
Bees 

The door to this room is labeled "Bee 
Mine." Within are giant worker honey- 
bees, giant hornets, giant wasps, and one 
leader, (very) slowly budding an expan- 
sion room to the east. The leader is none 
other than Big Bee, dreaded bee mage of 
power. 

Big Bee (bumble bee cross-breed): AC 
0 (-1 wlarmor spell); MV 12"/24"; MU 
14; hp 60 (82 wl armor spell); #AT 1 
(sting); Dmg ld4 plus poison; THACO 
16; AL NE; XP 4,000; SA spells, sting 
once with poison; SD spells. Big Bee has 
a Zagyg's spell coniponent case, the larg- 
est bag of holding (with his spell books 
and 500 pp inside), bracers AC 3, ring of 
protection +3, shades of charming (as 
per eves), gun of honeyed globs (100 
shots). and a potion o f fire resistance. He 
has an armor spell and a contingency spell 
(Sreball upon his person if slain) cast on 
his person. Spells: 

Level 1: charm person, magic missile 
(x3), enlarge 

Level 2: invisibility. mirror image, vo- 
calize, stinking cloud, detect invisibility 

Level 3: haste, hold person. Sreball, 
slow 

Level 4: fire shield, polymorph other. 
polymorph self 

Level 5: Big Bees interposing stinger. 
teleport 

Level 6: Big Bees forceful stinger. 
globe of invulnerability 

Level 7: forcecage 

40 Giant Worker Honevbees: AC 6; 
MV 9" 130" ; HD 3 + 1; hp 20 each; MT 
1; Dmg ld3 plus poison; THACO 16; AL 
N; XP 230 each; SA sting once with poi 
son that does 5d4 points of damage (2d4 if 


76 










save is successful) 

20 Giant Hornets: AC 2 in flight, 4 
when settled; MV 24"; HD 5; hp 35 each; 
MT 1; Dmg ld4 plus poisons: THACO 
15: AL N: XP 330 each; SA poison, inca- 
pacitation 

20 Giant Wasps: AC 4; MV 6" /21"; HD 
4; hp 30 each; MT 2; Dmg 2d4/ld4 plus 
poison: THACO 15: AL N; XP 440 each; 
SA paralyzing poison 

Big Bee is responsible for most of the 
construction of the hive through magic 
and labor. Like any good leader, he's al- 
ways the first to leave when the going 
gets tough (or even mildly difficult). 

There is no treasure in here except for 
that on the participants. Any combat in 
here will be noticed immediatelv in areas 
9 and 11. 

Area 11: The San Francisco 
Bay-Bees 

These mellow beings are constantly 
buzzed on the scent of honeyed incense. 
The entire rear of the giant chamber is 
filled with the smoke. Originally from an- 
other world and another time (San Fran 
cisco Bay, 1967), these ex-school 
teachers still believe they are on "one 
heck of a bad trip." They have painted 
themselves in yellow and black stripes 
and constantly talk with a low buzz to 
their voices. One of them is responsible 
for the fake hall passes throughout the 
complex. These hip-bees teach young 
hivelings what they need to become adult 
bees and how to tie-die the trench coats 
of the B-men as well. 

3 Hip-bees (human school teachers): 
AC 6 (high Dex); MV 12": HD 1; hp 8 
each: MT 0 (peaceniks); Dmg 0; 
THACO 19; AL N Buzzed; XP 100 each. 
Each hip-bee bee is wearing a button that 
says "make love, not war" and a silver 
peace symbol worth five gp. 

The walls of the area are painted in 
bright, swirling colors and have phrases 
like "Let it bee" and "We all live in a yel 
low submarine" scribbled all over the 
walls. A pile of black flexible plates stands 
in one comer. Small pieces of paper glued 
to the centers of each are labeled with 
The Beatles, the Bugaloos, Buddy Holly 


and the Crickets, and Iron Butterfly, as 
well as other famous insect titles. 

Dozens of small, noncombatant bees 
miil through the air here. Some are wear 
ing little cone-shaped hats on their heads 
that say "bumble bee," "stumble bee," 
"tumble bee," "rumble bee," as well as 
other siliy phrases. 

One of the hip-bees is carrying 100 pp 
in a small hooka of holding (250 Ibs. max). 
There is no other treasure here. 

Area 12: Beam Me Up Scotty 

A large slanted table stands just within 
the doorway to this chamber. A hex- 
shaped depression rests squarely in the 
middle. Se ven hex-shaped silver plates 
lie on the floor to the west. 

If the candle from area 4 is placed in the 
depression in the table, anyone standing 
on the silver pads (after two rounds have 
elapsed) will begin to shimmer and shake 
and awaken to find himself at area D on 
the map. 

Any character who says the magic 
words "Jim, I can't push her any faster 
than that" or "Damn it Jim. I'm a doctor 
not an engineer (or magician)" gets 5,000 
xp for being a Star Trek fan. 

The following two chambers are filled 
with the results of the bee queen's at- 
tempts to open up the hive to other 
worids and bring in new followers. 

Area 13: To Bee... 

The door is labeled in gold numerals 
"2B" (worth 10 gp per letter), If it is 
opened, a long corridor with a door at the 
end will be revealed. Any character pro- 
ceeding down the corridor and opening 
the door at the end will arrive outside the 
door to area 14. 

Area 14: ...Or Not To Bee 

This door is similar to the one above, 
but has the words "Not 2B" affixed to it. 
Following the corridor leads back to area 
13. It is possible for both doors to be 
open at the same time, allowing charac- 
ters to see themselves down the passage 
and across the room. 

The corridor serves no useful purpose. 


Area 15: "Look Ma, No Hånds!" 

This door is unmarked and opens into 
air. As far as the eye can see there is 
nothing but sky. A large sign hangs sus- 
pended in mid-air, labeled "Watch the 
first step-it's a doozy." 

Any characters prone to showing off 
are likely to get their just desserts here. 
No flying magical devices or spells will 
operate on this plane (only polymorph po 
tions and spells, etc.), so flying wizards 
will drop out of sight with a puzzled look 
on their features. 

A character stupid enough to jump out 
deserves to fail for etemity. 

If the DM is feeling particularly nasty, a 
copper coin should be suspended some 
100 yards out (seen only as a glint of gold 
in the distance). 

Area 16: Demi-Plane of Flowers 

Opening this door reveals one of the 
bee queen's few success stories. A gi- 
gantic plain covered with every imagina- 
ble type of flower and plant stretches on 
to the horizon. Aunt Bee opened a gate to 
the demi-plane of Flowers and Other 
Green Things. This is where most of the 
bees do their dirty work. The only intelli 
gent inhabitants of this region are a large 
giant, his son, and a rather slow-witted 
gardener. 

Joliet Green (storm giant): AC 1; MV 
15"; HD 15 + ld6 + l; hp 127; MT 1 
(club); Dmg 7d6; THACO 7; .AL CG; XP 
8,370; SA lightning bolts, call lightning, 
weather summoning; SD levitation, pre- 
dict weather, control winds, immune to 
electricity. Joliet is a jolly green giant who 
has no treasure and wears only a large 
green ratty tunic. 

Green Sprout (young storm giant): AC 
1; MV 15"; HD 15 + Id6 + l;hp60; MT 
1 (club); Dmg 4d6; THACO 7; AL CG; 
XP 7050; SA see above; SD see above. 
Sprout's only treasure is a small bird's 
eye opal worth 500 gp. 

Chauncey the Gardener: AC 10; MV 
12"; HD 1; hp 8; MT 0 (noncombatant); 
Dmg 0; THACO 19; AL NG; XP 10; SA 
easily misunderstood; SD high charisma. 
Chance retired here after a successful 


77 







term as president of the United States of 
America. Nobody ever noticed his very 
low Intelligence because he's so pleasant 
to be with and looks so good on TV. World 
peace was finally achieved under his 
steady hånd. 

The three peaceful beings will not at- 
tack unless provoked. Provocation in- 
cludes picking any flowers, relieving 
oneself on a hedge or tree, making ridicu- 
lous jokes about Mr. Green, etc. 

In one nearby clearing are the remains 
of three men, wearing tight satin clothing 
and piles of gaudy jewelry. A spear has 
been driven through each of their hearts, 
with a flag stating that "Disco is dead!" 
flying in the breeze. One of them is hold 
ing the remains of a small black plate. The 
still-legibie writing says simply "Staying 
Alive." The normally peaceful hip-bees 
are responsible for this attack. but will 
claim that it was in the best interest of the 
human race. 

In any case, there are 16 gold chains 
and amulets each worth 500-2,000 gp (if 
sold to people with tastes equally appall- 
ing). If tastefully smelted down, the 
items are worth 75% the previous value. 

At this point the DM should pick out 
one character with a random die roli and 
increase the magical plus of one randomly 
chosen item on their person. If the play- 
ers ask why, tell them "because it's writ- 
ten in the module." 

As implied earlier, the beautiful field is a 
favorite place of the hip-bees and they are 
usually accompanied by hundreds of nor 
mal, peace-loving bees flying harmlessly 
about the flowers. 

Area 17: Nut 'n' Honey 

This door when opened will reveal a 
beautiful, finely crafted, blood-red brick 
wall. As far as the characters dig, disinte- 
grate, or passwall through this wall, 
there'11 still be more bricks, in all direc- 
tions. This backfired experiment opens 
into the elemental plane of Inferior Con- 
struction Materials (Brick Department). 
Since bees dislike bricks immensely, it 
hasn't proved very useful. 


Area 18: Deja Vu 

This door is the flip side of Door #3 
from area 4. If opened, the sign saying 
"Door #3" will be seen hanging from a 
nail on the inside. Beyond the doorway is 
Egg, just waiting for some new eontest- 
ants. If the party enters, they will be 
shuffled immediately into their seats and 
will have to start all over again. 

Area 19: "Silly, Positively Silly." 

Beyond this door lies the most dreaded 
land ever discovered, the plane of Silly and 
Unused Monsters. This is nerd monster 
central. The achaierai. almi'raj's, asco- 
moids, atomies, axe beaks, basidironds, 
berbalangs, boggarts (not Humphrey, 
though), boggies. boobries, bookas, brain 
moles, brownies, bullywugs. bunyips, car- 
buncles, cerebral parasites, clubneks, den- 
zelians, diakka, dire corbies, ear seekers, 
eblis (storkmen), envelopers, ettercaps, 
flail snails (in abundance), flumphs (prime 
food source here), foo creatures, forlar- 
rens, fungi. galltrits, gibbermg mouthers, 
gorbels, elemental grues, gryphs. generic 
herd animals, hollyphants, intellect devour- 
ers, jellies, jermlaine, khargras, killmoulis. 
larvas, luck eaters, mephits, minimais 
(make the party bigger), mites, modrons 
(except Primus), morkoths, myconids (fun- 
gus heads), norkers, opiniais, oozes, os- 
quips, pech, pedipalpi, puddings, rust 
monsters (who can respect a creature with 
a propeller?), scarecrows, screaming 
devilkins, slimes, snyads, solifugids, stench 
kows, tasloi, thorks, thought eaters, 
tiraphegs, trillochs, tweens, unplebies, ve- 
gepygmies, vulchlings, witherstenches, 
and xvarts all infest the oceans and lands of 
this seemingly endless plane They are led 
by a fat little nilbog. 

Most of these creatures have retired 
here due to lack of interest, lack of seri- 
ous fear portrayed by their enemies, or 
outright contempt and humiliation. They 
eat rutabagas ("the vanishing vegeta- 
ble") and flumphs. They have the usual 
chances for equally wimpy treasure 
should the party be that desperate. 


Areas 20 & 21: Boarded-Up 
Doors 

Both of the doors have been boarded 
up with signs saying "Closed because it's 
just plane Silly." 

Area 22: A Raisin in the Sun. 

The party will set their sights on a 
beautiful tropical island, covered in lush, 
green palm trees and fine white sand. A 
buming yellow sun rests in clear blue sky. 
If these colors don't look right to you, ad- 
just the tint control knob on your left ear. 
A wooden sign on the bench near the 
doorway reads "Bee Ware." Beside the 
sign, in a big reclining multi-colored fabric 
chair, is a large black blob wearing dark 
sunglasses. Its skin is wrinkled and it is 
holding a tall glass filled with pieces of 
fruit and ice. It will not say anything un 
less the party greets the strange crea 
ture. Then it will tell them this, "I heard 
it through the grapevine that you cats 
were looking for the big queen. Look no 
more. She's just behind those trees in 
her giant bee ship." It will not join the 
party. 

Marvin Grape (giant raisin): AC 8; MV 
3", slow groove; HD 1 hp; #AT 2; Dmg 
4dl0/4dl0 (martial arts expert); THACO 
20; AL N; XP 300; SA martial arts 
punches if annoyed; SD mellow attitude. 
Marvin has an all-natural cool-dude drink 
in his hånd. 

The characters might believe they 
have stepped into another world, on 
some mysterious desert isle. Actually, 
the trees are plastic, the sun is a perma 
nent customized condnual light spell, and 
the balmy breezes and ocean smells 
come from gust ofwind and illusion spells 
cast by Big Bee. 

The plane-shaped structure hidden be 
hind the palm trees is in faet a plane. It is a 
renovated B-52 bomber (B-52G to be 
specific) now used as the secret head- 
quarters of the colony leadership. The 
body of the plane has been painted with 
yellow and black stripes, while the nose 
of the craft has two big bee-like eyes 
adoming it. A non-operational set of rear- 
mounted guns has been modified to look 


78 









like a stinger affixed to the tail of the fuse- 
lage. The B-52 has no landing gear and its 
belly is resting in the sand. The only en- 
trance to the craft is at area 23, and the 
DM should magicaUv ward the walls of 
the ship to prevent the party from enter- 
ing anywhere other than here. 

The DM should award 5,000 xp to the 
first player who mentions that B-52s 
never flew in WWI1 (double it if discov 
ered by a civilian). 

Area 23: "Smoking or 

Non-Smoking?" 

A large metal ramp leads up into the 
rear of the strange metal bee-ship. Two 
tightly clad wasp-women wearing silly lit- 
tle hats are waiting at the top of the ramp. 

Bar Bee and Bar Bee Cue (wasp- 
women stewardesses): AC 4; MV 12"/ 
21": HD 4: hp 24. 21; MT 0: Dmg 0; 
THACO 15; AL N: XP 200 each: SA high 
Charisma: SD high Charisma. These 
beauties serve Aunt Bee as handmaid- 
ens. 

If the party climbs to the top of the 
ramp, the two creatures will greet the 
party, take their hall passes, rip them in 
half, give one half back to the party, point 
to the front of the plane and say, "Take 
your seats, the captain will be with you in 
a moment. Thank vou for flving Bee 
Line." 

The party will enter to see eight 
leather-covered uncomfortable seats 
mounted along the walls, with a large 
metal door in the northem wall. The door 
is barred with a wall of force spell on the 
other side. During the party's wait, Aunt 
Bee will prepare for battie (if she has not 
already done so) and put on some lipstick 
and rouge. 

On a small table in the middle of the 
room are 10 assorted magazines (circa 
1940) of the type found in doctors' of- 
fices. They are uninformative and use- 
less to the party. Antennae-like 
headphones have been provided for their 
listening enjoyment. Muzak versions of 
such completely anachronous tunes as 
"Let it Bee," "Be my Little Bav-Bee," 
and "Bav-Bee Love" are plaving over 
and over again. After one boring turn, the 


party will be allowed in. 

The women carry no treasure and will 
only squeal loudly if attacked. 

Area 24: Aunt Bee's Kitchen 

The majority of the B-52's fuselage has 
been stripped of all decks and equipment 
and now serves as the lair of Aunt Bee, 
queen of bees. She rests in the north end 
of the chamber constantly gorging herself 
on royal jelly, pumped in from the wing 
tanks (see area 28). The smaller, almost 
human form of Aunt Bee (as seen by the 
party in area 4) is attached to a massive 
bloated yellow and black sac suspended 
by cargo nets and connected to the royal 
jelly tanks via rubber hoses. She can de- 
tach herself but loses the healing benefits 
of the symbiosis if she does so (see be- 
low). When complete, she looks like a gi- 
gantic bumblebee with a human head and 
arms, beehive hairdo, small bee wings, 
large bee eyes, and two antennae. 

Aunt Bee: AC -8 (-5 w/o apron ); 
MV 12"/24"; C18; hp99 (16+ HD): MT 
1. staff: Dmg ld6; THACO 7; AL CE; XP 
14,890 (148,900 if deity options used and 
killed on home plane); SA clerical spells, 
summon giant insects/bees (at will), tele 
port (no error) once per day; SD spells. 
+ 2 or better weapon to hit (or any 
weapon dipped in honey), regeneration 
when attached to food sac, super- 
sensory antennae act like true seeing 
spell in 120"-radius sphere, impossible to 
surprise, immunity to fire; MR 60%. 
Aunt Bee always wears a white apron of 
protecdon +3 (vs. frontal attacks only). 
DM's option: give Aunt Bee full lesser 
deity abilities (see Manual of the Planes 
or Legends and Lore volumes), assigning 
the Prime Material plane or the demi- 
plane of Flowers and Other Green Things 
(see area 16) as her home plane. Spells: 

Level 1: command (x3), sanctuary. 
cure light wounds (x4) 

Level 2: enthrall, withdraw, silence 15' 
radius, hold pei~son (x3). chant. messen 
ger 

Level 3: continual light, animate dead. 
cause blindness, cause chsease, death's 
door, dispel magic (x2), curse 

Level 4: protecdon from good, 10' ra 


dius, giant insect (x2, even works on 
large forms), cloak of fear, spell immunity 
(to lightning bolt), spell immunity (to 
cone ofcold), poison 

Level 5: animate dead monsters (x2), 
flame strike, insect plague. magic font, 
quest 

Level 6: bee barrier (bees instead of 
blades), word of recall, heal (x2) 

Level 7: unholy word 

Royal Jellv Food Sac: AC 10; MV 0"; 
HD 100 hp: MT 0: AL N; XP 500; SD 
royal jelly regenerates 12-135 (3d8+3 
dmes ld4 +1) hit points per round on it- 
self and Aunt Bee (when attached). 

Six black rubber tubes attach this semi- 
intelligent blob to the royal jelly tanks in 
the wing. Each tube is AC 6 and requires 
20 points of damage to sever (blunt weap- 
ons do no damage, thrusting weapons do 
10% damage). When all of the tubes have 
been cut or the sac destroyed, the heal 
ing effects of the food sac will end after 
two rounds, leaving Aunt Bee vulnera- 
ble. Until then, it is impossible to kill her 
with mere physical damage alone (as- 
sume instant regeneration). Other spells 
could still end her reign though. 

Aunt Bee was once a slightly battv, but 
lovable, housekeeper for a famous sher 
iff, Andy Taylor. One day the sheriff s 
son, Opey, showed his Aunt the descrip- 
tion of the royal jelly found in his Monster 
Manual II (which he had just purchased 
with lunch money secretly extorted from 
other students). 

Being rather naive about such things, 
she believed that it would restore her al 
ready faded youth. She quicklv became 
addicted to the expensive substance and 
ran away with a wealthy honey baron 
from Texas. The slow transformation 
tumed her into the creature she is now, 
doing anything for that "one quick fix." 
She killed the Texas baron, took over his 
hives, and began to draw a following. 
Soon, she transported herself to this 
plane where her activities would be less 
noticed. After renting this property from 
Mr. Wank-Ah (see area 29) and disposing 
of his body, she set about to rule the 
world, or at least comer the market on 
honey. The party is the only thing be- 







tween her and a total monopoly. 

Aunt Bee is accompanied by her pet 
and chief male consort, B.B. King. Both 
are always protected by four drones (who 
aiways lie to her about how beautjful she 
is) and an army of B-men soidiers, giant 
soldier honeybees, giant hornets, and gi 
ant wasps. 

B.B. King (giant rare black hornet): 
AC -2 in flight, 0 on ground; MV 24"; 
HD 10; hp 80; MT 1; Ding 2d6 plus poi- 
son; THACO 10; AL NE; XP 900; SA 
poison, incapacitation. B.B. King is a 
double-sized hornet. 

Larry, Curly, Shep, and Moe drones 
(sturdy bumblebee cross-breeds): AC 2 
with shields; MV 12"/24"; HD 7 + 4; hp 
60 each; MT 2, sword and stinger; Dmg 
Id8/ld4 plus poison; THACO 12; AL 
NE; XP 1,000 each; SA long sword of 
stinging, +2 (see area 9), sting once with 
poison. Each of these four stooges of 
Aunt Bee has a shield and a gold necklace 
worth 5,000 gp. 

20 B-men soidiers (hornet half- 
breeds): AC 0 in flight, 2 on ground: MV 
12'724"; HD 7; hp 56 each; MT 2. gun 
and stinger; Dmg see below and ld4 plus 
poisons; THACO 13; AL NE; XP 530 
each; SA poison and incapacitation as per 
giant hornet. Each agent has a hall pass 
and a gun of honeyedglobs (100). 

40 Giant Soldier Honeybees: AC 5; 
MV 12'730"; HD 4 +2; hp 34 each; #AT 
1; Dmg ld4 plus poison; THACO 15; AL 
N: XP 370 each; SA sting once with poi 
son that does 5d4 points of damage (2d4 if 
save is successful)-victims are at -1 to 
save. 

40 Giant Hornets: AC 2 in flight, 4 
when settled; MV24"; HD 5; hp40 each; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4 plus poisons: THACO 
15; AL N; XP 365 each; SA poison. inca 
pacitation 

40 Giant Wasps: AC 4: MV 6" 121"; HD 
4: hp 32 each: MT 2: Dmg 2d4/ld4 plus 
poison: THACO 15; AL N; XP 448 each; 
SA paralyzing poison 

The great battie may be fought in here, 
or out on the beach (if the party alerted 
the whole place). The DM is encouraged 
to barrage the party with aerial combat, 
flying spells, and blobs of goo. 

If the party attempts to rush past Aunt 


Bee s guardians, the enemies will lead 
the rash characters right over the trap 
doors (area 27). Aunt Bee will then pull 
the lever just to the right of her great bulk 
and send the party right back where they 
started from. loudly laughing at them as 
they fail away. 

The immense amount of treasure to be 
found here is not in the form of gold or 
jewels, but in the form of the royal jelly. 
Access to the jelly is through the rubber 
tubes. Much of it will have drained out 
into the chamber (contammated and ru 
ined), but tons of the stuff still filis the fuel 
tanks. Therefore, the treasure takes the 
form of cosmetic value, or a lifetime sup- 
ply of extra-healing potjons, as long as 
the party has space to carry them all. 

After a careful search, the party will 
find the remains of a body gooed to the 
wall and filled with dozens of stinger holes 
and bites. Examination will reveal that it 
is the corpse of a middle-aged woman 
with short. permed brown hair. Metal 
plates on a chain around her neck (no 
value) have the name Riplev engraved on 
them. 

Area 25: Red Rain 

Atop the bomber is a turret emplace- 
ment, manned by the only surviving crea- 
ture of the crash that brougnt the B-52 to 
rest in this time (before it was physically 
brought here). He is Striper. a slrange lit- 
tle reptilian creature known to modem 
science as a gremlin. Created by Japa- 
nese alchemists early in the 20th century, 
these little devils were responsible for 
more casualties than the entire Japanese 
army during WWII. Most were killed in 
the crashes they caused, but this little 
creep sent the entire plane through a 
time warp by sneezing during a bombing 
run. The crew either died in the crash, 
were killed by norkers (a great victory 
celebrated every year), or went on to in 
vent disposable diapers. 

Striper the Gremlin: AC 4; MV 12"; 
HD 1; hp 4 each; MT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ 
ld6; THACO 19; AL CE: XP 300; SA un- 
luck power. 

He mans a con vert ed machine gun. 
with a full view of the area around the 


plane. The gun shoots 60 little crimson 
stingers every round. Treat this as a 
breath weapon attack that causes 60 
points of damage per round (save for half 
damage) to any within its effect. It can 
fire for five continuous rounds before re- 
loading. 

As long as Striper remains alive, there 
is a 10% chance that any magical item 
used, spell cast, or saving throw made by 
the party will fail. All batties within 50 
feet of the plane will be so affected. The 
villains are not subject to the gremlin's 
unluck. 

Striper speaks in meaningless phrases 
like ''Baker, Baker, 1, 9" and "This is 
Roger. Do you copy?" which he picked up 
from the ex-crew members. 

Area 26: Ceiling Pizza 

This is what used to be the upper deck 
of the cockpit for the craft (the lower 
deck is filled with junk). Two B-men 
stand on lookout in here, through the lit 
tle holes in the giant insect eyes mounted 
to the nose of the plane. If the party fails 
to take adequate precautions, the B-men 
will alen the gunner in area 25 and the en 
tire force of the bee queen in area 24. An 
ambush will be laid involving spells and 
honey globs. while the gunner fires on 
the already besieged party members. 
There is no treasure in the cockpit. 

If the two B-men are attacked from 
within the ship and wounded, they will 
snicker loudly about their secret escape 
chairs and then each will press a hidden 
button-explosively launching them 
selves upward via two ejection seats. 
However, the system is not completely 
operational, as the roof will not open to 
accommodate their egress. The sneaky 
spies will be splattered upon the ceiling 
like "street pizza" except in reverse. 

2 B-men (hornet half-breeds): AC 0 in 
flight, 2 when settled: MV 12'724"; HD 
7; hp 50 each; MT 2, gun and stinger; 
Dmg see below and ld4 plus poisons; 
THACO 13; AL NE; XP 500 each; SA 
poison and incapacitation as per giant hor 
net. Each agent has a hall pass and a gun 
of honeyed globs beneath his trench coat. 













Area 27: Bomb Bay 

This is Ihe group of bomb bay doors 
(treat as secret trap doors) in the floor of 
the main hold (area 24). If the lever in 
area 24 is pulled, they will drop open, re- 
vealing a magnificent view of Bombay 
from 20,000 feet in the air (circa 1940). 
The plane appears to be circling over this 
landscape at over 600 mph and winds and 
sweet scents will rush up through the 
open bay doors. 

The party might believe that this is an 
illusion, but is another one of Aunt Bee's 
failed gate spells. If the party jumps (or 
fails) through here, they will exit this 
dungeon level (editor's choice as to final 
destination, but best to make it some- 
where in or near Greyhawk Castle or 
dungeon). Unknown to the party, Aunt 
Bee, or the residents of Bombay. a gate 
centered above the city leads directly 
back to this world. This is indeed the only 
way out of the hive except through the in- 
terpianar doorways of this level. 

The bomb bay doors can be closed 
again by retuming the lever to its pre- 
vious position. Because of the enchant- 
ments placed upon the region, there will 
be no explosive decompression when the 
doors are opened. 

Area 28: The Flight of the 
Bumblebees 

These two wings are still strongly at- 
tached to the fuselage and in relatively 
good condition. Instead of fuel in their in- 
temal tanks, they contain gallons upon 
gallons of royal jelly. The jelly has been 
deposited here regularly by the queen's 
followers and is constantly purified by 
spells. It is extremely valuable for cos- 
metic purposes and for its medicinal 
properties (see area 24 and Monster 
Manual f/, p. 17). The jelly is fed to the 
queen via metal pipes and rubber hoses. 

Each of the four sets of two engines 
(eight total) hanging beneath the wings 
contains 10 baby bumblebees. They con 
stantly pretend the plane is in the air and 
hum the melody of Rimsky Korsakov's 
"Flight of the Bumblebees." They are 
noncombatant and have no treas ure. 


Area 29: Obligatory Secret 

Treasure Guarded By 
The Equally Obligatory 
New Monster 

This is your typical secret treasure 
vault hidden behind your typical secret 
door. It contains typical random magical 
items (to make up for the ridiculous lack 
of treasure the party has been subjected 
to). The DM should choose items appro- 
priate to the performance of the party. 

There are two atypical things in here. 
The always expected obligatory new 
monster and a mysterious body. 

Obligatory New Monster: The statis- 
tics for this creature depends on the won- 
derful AD&D(r) game monster to be 
mutated here. The DM should chose a fa- 
vorite hostile monster (or roli randomly 
on whatever table he wishes-always 
trying to avoid any of the stupid monsters 
listed in area 19), and then decide which 
trait or traits have been changed (ld4 
variations possible). 

1. Color (stripes, etc.) 

2. Size (+ /-1-100%) 

3. Horns (yes/no) 

4. Casts a random magic-user spell 
once per round 

5. Immune to physical damage (made 
of rubber) 

6. Armor Class (+ 1-2) 

and so on.... 

The monsters are in all respects the 
same as those found in the AD&D(r) 
game. but are often used to replace crea- 
tivity in role playing tried and true mon 
sters. The DM should have a red neon 
sign attached to the back of the creature, 
which reads 'Tm this adventure's obliga 
tory new monster. Kick me!" Obligatory 
new monsters have no treasure in this 
adventure. 

The mysterious body is that of a man 
dressed in a purpie tuxedo with a crushed 
top hat. He was stung repeatedly and has 
been dead for months. A business card in 
his upper shirt pocket reads "Wile E. 
Wonk-Ah. Inc., broker and inventor.'' In 
his left pants pocket is a small multi- 
colored rock. It is an everlasting gobstop- 


per, one of the inventor's many wonderful 
confections. It is a sweet piece of candy 
that changes fruity flavors once per turn 
and lasts forever. It is made with Nutra- 
sweet and does not promote cavities. 

Mr. Wonk-Ah sold strange properties 
on the side to support his habit for invent 
ing. He was killed because he knew too 
much. He knew the bee queen's plans 
and where she was based-after all he 
had rented her the property. There is a 
group of little orange men staying near 
the castle who have offered a reward of 
three golden tickets for the return of his 
body. After a little starch and a bubble 
bath, he'll be as good as new, and offer 
the party a tour of his candy factory (no 
free samples) as a reward. 

Area 30: Bare Aspiring. 

Three half nude and starving men are 
lying here, close to death. They are 
grossly dehydrated and cannot speak. 
Death will come in ld4 tums to each man 
uniess the party helps them. 

If healed, each man claims to be a phy- 
sician stranded on this desert isle by 
Bandwagon, god of truth in advertising. 
Indeed, each man can bind wounds on 
others and set sprains and braken bones, 
but none of the men have any real cura- 
tive spells or even bloodletting tools 
(marks of true healers). They have no 
treasure, but each carries a small bottle 
of white tablets which they will try to ped- 
dle as "wonder drugs." If swallowed, the 
piils can relieve the minor muscie aches 
felt by fighter-types after a good hack- 
and-slash, or the throbbing head of a 
mage after casting any spell over fifth 
level. There are 100 tablets in each light- 
weight container. Because of their unu- 
sual properties, the tablets are worth 10 
gp each to an interested alchemist. 

3 Physicians: AC 10; MV 1" crawl; Cl 
0: hp 4 (max). 1 due to depleted condi 
tion; #AT 1, knives only; Dmg variable; 
THACO 21; AL NG: XP 10; SA big 
words cause confusion, high Dexterity, 
and Intelligence; SD healing proficiency. 


81 










N 


\ 


\\ 


V 


\ 


\ 























































































(Level 8: of kinqs 
nf) colonels 


Encounter Setting 

In this level of the Greyhawk Dungeon, 
the intrepid adventurers find themselves 
in the midst of a covert war between 
Colonel Sandpaper and King Burger. 

The situation may be summarized as 
follows: 

Colonel Sandpaper has been using his 
terroristic cockatrice minions (available 
in extra crispy as well as traditional rec- 
ipe) to make sandstone statues of inno- 
cent passers-by. These are then ground 
up and made into sandpaper. The sandpa 
per is then diverted to supply the Coun- 
tertop Rebels, who are struggling against 
the autocratic regime of King Burger by 
wearing away at his Profits. 

But there are dangers for Colonel 
Sandpaper. General Public has been 
pleasantly oblivious, beyond the Veil of 
Secrecy that hides from him the Web of 
Intrigue, passing the time eating pop 
corn. But if a leak is made and a 4erne/ of 
trut/i is slipped through the curtain, the 
General, angered by the deception, 
might seek a more truthful colonel to re- 
place Sandpaper. In the words of Col. 
Sandpaper to his secretary and appren- 
dce, Tela Vision, "It would notbe finger- 
lickin' good." The Colonel would then 
have to have his cooks generate some 
sympathy to regain the General's favor. 
(Sympathy is a type of dinner roli, the pri 
mary ingredients of which are shredded 
player characters and 4erne/ of truth.) 

The player characters' objective is 
simply to get through this level alive. 
This is best accomplished by not getting 
entangled in the Web of Intrigue. They'U 
have enough trouble with the Colonel try- 
ing to shred them into coleslaw, cocka- 
trices trying to get them stoned, and 
cooks trying to get them baked into din 
ner rolis. (Despite the references to get 
ting "stoned" and "baked," it is generally 
believed that the Colonel isn't involved in 
the drug trade.) 

The realm of King Burger makes up 
dungeon level 8. Here the player charac 
ters encounter the Countertop Rebels, 
who struggle against King Burger and his 
mystical Profits. The Profits predict the 


inevitable domination of the Market by 
King Burger, and they serve that cause. 
The Countertops, in trying to disrupt that 
service, have several strategies. The lat- 
est ones are to infiltrate King Burger's 
ranks with Chicken Tenders trained by 
Colonel Sandpaper, and to flood the Mar 
ket with free-willed soft drink refill ele 
mentals. 

Again, the player characters are ad 
vised to simply watch out for their own 
skins. Taking sides in the conflict is not 
recommended, as most intellectuals and 
gourmets agree that the Countertops are 
at least as greasy and unappetizing as 
King Burger himself. 

Encounter Key 

Web of Intrigue 

This magical curtain of sticky strands 
surrounds the operations of Colonel 
Sandpaper. It is a permanent, specially 
modified web (as the spell). Any charac 
ter who is in direct physical contact with it 
for more than one round must roil a suc- 
cessful saving throw vs. spell or develop 
paranoia (see DMG, p. 84). The Web is 
partially resistant to fire; if set aflame, ap- 
proximately 10 feet of it bums before the 
fire dies out. It can, of course, be relit. 
The Web's enchantments prevent view- 
ing by Astral color pool of the area inside; 
however, ethereal creatures can pass 
through. 

Besides Crossing areas 1 and 4, the Web 
filis a narrow passage that runs around 
most of this level. The height of the pas 
sage varies between 3 l & and 12 feet. Any- 
one traveling through the area has a 1 in 20 
chance per 10 feet traveled of being at- 
tacked by a pair of phase spiders. 

2 Phase Spiders: AC 7; MV 6" *15"; 
HD 5 + 5; hp 45 each; tf AT 1; Dmg ld6; 
THACO 13; SA poison (save at -2); SD 
shift out of phase; AL N. 

Area 1: And You Thought 
Salmonella Was Bad 

Just beyond the Web is a contingent of 
the Colonel's crack troops, cockatrices 
waiting to ambush any who would pass 


further. There are six regular orders and 
two extra crispy. 

6 Cockatrices: AC 6; MV 6"/18"; HD 
5; hp 24; tf AT 1; Dmg ld3; THACO 15; 
SA Petrification; AL N. 

2 Pyrolisks: AC 6; HD 4 + 3; hp 26 
each; tf AT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 15; SA 
Gaze causes victim to explode into flames 
(instant death)-successful saving throw 
vs. petrification reduces this to ldl2 +1 
points of damage; SD immune to fire; AL 
NE. 

These beasts' primary task is to make 
statues that may then be ground up and 
made into sandpaper; therefore the pyro 
lisks refrain from using their gaze attack. 
If however, they seem to be faced with a 
powerful group (this means going two 
consecutive rounds of combat without 
tuming a PC to stone), the pyrolisks will 
make full use of their incinerating gazes. 

Area 2: Secretary 


In the center of this brightly-lit room is 
a desk. Behind it sits a comely young 
woman, perhaps in her mid-20s. She 
introduces herself: "Hello. I'm Tela 
Vision, the Colonel's secretary and re 
ceptionist. Do you have an appoint- 
ment?" 


Light in this room, as in others on the 
level (except the maze, area 8), is pro- 
vided by glass tubes attached to the ceil- 
ing, upon which have been cast 
permanent continual light spells. Tela, 
the Colonel's protege, is loyal and dili- 
gent. Nonetheless, she's having second 
thoughts about the Sandpaper Affair. The 
business about the Countertop Rebels 
also concems her. 

She chats with the characters, and idly 
toys with the beans on her abacus. She 
asks whether they'd prefer a moming or 
aftemoon hearing with the colonel, and 
should General Public be there? Are they 
interested perhaps in commissioning a 
tower, since the Colonel has access to a 
lot of stone for construction? The barrage 
of such shop talk will probably go way 
over the heads of the bewildered adven 
turers. 


83 










pift 

mM^jéimIi 


?Æ'#m 

wmte 


ImtMM 


'&§?m 


i! WSSå&tm 


Web of Intrigue 


O o' 


Scale: 1 


Scale: 1 Hex = 200 Ybrds o 


2 

El 

B 


1 




















Then she'll spiil the beans. The abacus 
falis, shattering and making an awfuldat 
ter, as Tela sobs her confession and begs 
for the characters' assistance. 

A few hours ago, she made a leak to 
General Public. With the Veil of Secrecy 
thus broken, it's only a matter of time be- 
fore trouble comes. What must be done, 
she explams, is the kerne/ of truth must 
be slipped to General Public. 

She then takes out that magical com 
kerne/ from a desk drawer, presents it to 
a PC. and hurries the party through the 
south door (usmg her suggestion spell to 
encourage them, if necessary). ''You'll 
have to fight your way past the guards 
and through the Web of Intrigue first," 
Tela comments as she slams and locks the 
door behind them. 

The kemel of truth is the size and ap- 
pearance of a normal com kemel. It 
glows bright red whenever a lie is told 
within 30 feet of it. If the proper com- 
mand words are known, the kemel c an 
also be used to store information or carry 
messages: The user speaks the correct 
incantation, then States the information 
into it. and says another command to tum 
it off. Still other commands cause the ker 
ne/ to redte the information it carries. 
The kemel will not record any statement 
that is false at the time it is spoken. The 
kemel can retain up to 90 minutes of in 
formation, and currently holds (in Tela's 
voice) details of Colonel Sandpaper's op 
erations. 

If assaulted, Tela defends herself to the 
best of her abilities. 

Tela Vision (human illusionist): AC 0; 
MV 12"; 17; hp 30; #AT 1: Dmg ld4 +3: 
THACO 16: SA & SD Spells, ring; AL 
LN; ST11; IN 17: WI12; DE 18; CO 15: 
CH 17; Possessions: bracers of de fense 
AC 4. dagger +3, ring of åre resis tance: 
Spells and cantrips memorized: biur, 
chromatic orb, color spray, fascinate, 
haze. mask, mirage. mirror image, para- 
lyzation, rainbow, spook. 

Tela's spell books are kept in her desk 
(locked, of course). The spell books con- 
tain those spells memorized, plus contin- 
ual light. hypnotism, and read illusionist 
magic. 

If the characters come to this room a 


second time, Tela will have been re- 
placed. The Colonel learned of her 
treachery and decided to have her petri- 
fied and brought to the sandpaper pro- 
duction room (area 10) to await use in the 
next batch. 

To fill Tela 's post until a permanent sec- 
retary can be found, Sandpaper will have 
hired Bunny. She is tall, gorgeous, scant- 
ily clad. bat-winged. and has the most al- 
luring, delicate little horns and fangs; she 
is, in a word, a succubus. Bunny was, in 
faet, Tela's predecessor, but she was re- 
lieved of the post because she kept se- 
ducing the Colonel's business partners 
and clients-with disastrous financial and 
personal results. Bunny has a special tal 
ent for helping visitors pass the time plea- 
surably while waiting for an appointment 
with the colonel. 

Bunny (succubus): AC 0; MV 12" /18"; 
HD 6: hp 48; MT 2: Dmg Id3/ld3; 
THACO 13; SA energy drain, darkness 
5' r.. charm person, ESP, clairaudience, 
suggestion, shapechange (to humanoid 
form of roughly same size only). gate 
(40% chance of success, type IV (70%), 
type VI (25%) or lord/prince (5%); SD 
+ 1 or better weapon to hit, ethereal- 
ness. teleport no error; MR 70%; AL 
CE. 

Area 3: Guards 

A trio of extra crispies have orders to 
keep everyone away from the living room 
of General Public. (Tela was able to get 
past the guards and the Web by using oil 
of etherealness.) 

3 Pyrolisks: AC 6: HD 4 + 3: hp 35 
each; MT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 15; SA 
gaze causes victim to explode into dames 
(instant death)-successful saving throw 
vs. petrification reduces this to ldl2 +1 
points of damage; SD immune to fire; AL 
NE 

Wrapped up in the Web just beyond this 
area is some treasure: a backpack full of 
platinum (300 pp) and a beautiful necklace 
(gold decorated with platinum wire and 
15 emeralds of various sizes and shapes. 
depicting flowers and leaves) worth 
15,750 gp. 


Area 4: The Ve il of Secrecy 

This normal-lookingcurtain of cloth is a 
powerful magical cloaking device. When 
funetioning, it creates a magical curtain 
around a prescribed area. This barrier's 
effeets apply to those on both sides of it. 
Scrying devices, spells and effeets, such 
as clairaudience , clainvyance, crystal 
balls, ESP, telepathy, and x-ray vision 
cannot penetrate the barrier. Neither can 
the area protected be viewed by astral or 
ethereal beings, nor can such beings pass 
the Veil to materialize beyond it. (This 
means. of course, that characters who 
enter those planes from within the Veil's 
area would not be able to move else- 
where in those planes until the Veil was 
lifted.) In a similar vein, spells such as 
blink, dimension door, gate, and teleport 
cannot transport beings or objects across 
the curtain. Finally, the Veil itself is 
soundproof and totally opaque. 

Beyond the Veil lives General Public, 
the official ruler of this level. The General 
leaves all the administrative details to his 
assistant. Colonel Sandpaper, and spends 
his time relaxing, eating popcorn, and 
watching programmed illusions. Insu- 
lated by the Veil of Secrecy, he is blissfullv 
oblivious to what has been happening be 
yond the Web of Intrigue. 

But only a few hours before the charac 
ters' arrival. Sandpaper's secretarv (see 
area 2) came and cut a hole in the Veil, 
disrupting its magic. If the characters 
met her and received the kemel of tmth. 
they might slip it through the tear in the 
cloth. In this way. all of the drama will 
have been brought right into the living 
room of the General Public, by Tela Vi 
sion. 

Public will pick up the kemel, leam in- 
stantly of Sandpaper's covert operation, 
and fly into a rage over the deception. 
He'U tear down the Veil. stomp past the 
characters, and fly to the Colonel to have 
a little man-to-ogre mage chat. 

In order to regain the Generai's favor. 
the colonel will have to cook up some 
sympathy- and the PCs are the primary' 
ingredient. For the full recipe, see area 7. 


85 






Area 5: Li ving Room 

This large chamber is comfortably and 
luxuriously furnished with plush carpet- 
ing, soft couches, reclining chairs, foot- 
stools, an oak cabinet, and several small 
tables made of exotic wood. On the tables 
are oil lamps, bowls of popcorn, half- 
drained mugs of warm beer, and back is- 
sues of such magazines as Town & 
Castle, Interdimensional Geographic, 
Wars Illustrated, and Better Lairs & 
Dungeons. Various tapestries, rugs, and 
paintings hang on the walls. These depict 
General Public, his family, and relatives. 

In the center of the room is a huge 
(100-pound) glass cube. By mental com- 
mand, the cube can depict any of several 
dozen programmed illusions. As charac- 
ters enter, the one playing is "The 
Brownie Bunch"-a light-hearted docu- 
drama depicting dragons devouring di 
minutive demi-humans. 

Unless the kerne! of truth was slipped 
to him (see areas 2 and 4). General Public 
will be here, and will engage intruders in 
combat. 

General Public (extra-strength non- 
aspirin ogre mage): AC 2; MV 9"/15"; 
HD 10+4; hp 84: #AT 1: Dmg 2dl2: 
THACO 10; SA Fly, invisibility, darkness 
1" r., polymorph self to humanoid form, 
charm person, sleep, cone of cold (Dmg 
8d8); SD assume gaseous form, regener- 
ate 2 hp/round; AL LE 

The room's fumishings are valuable, 
but also extremely bulky (they're ogre 
mage-sized). If somehow transported 
and sold, perhaps 50.000 gp could be gar 
nered. The 12 tapestries, rugs, and 
paintings are each worth 2d4 x 100 gp. 

Inside the oak cabinet are treasures 
more suited to the mobility of player 
characters: 27 assorted gems (five are 
base 10 gp value, three are base 50, 
seven are base 100, six are base 500, 
four are base 1,000, and two are base 
5,000), 17 flasks (six oil, three unholy 
water, one oil of slipperiness, and seven 
potions: extra-healing. giant control, 
growth, healing (2). and poison), and an 
efreeti bottle. 


Area 6: Hall of the Faun 


This is a normal-looking hallway, 50 
feet long with a door at the end. Half- 
way along is a perfectly-sculpted, life- 
sized statue of a satyr. 


The hapless satyr stumbled out of a 
plane-shifting wardrobe one day, right 
into the reach of Sandpaper's sandstoning 
solicitors. Following their pecking or- 
ders, the cockatrices petrified the bewil- 
dered fellow. To commemorate the odd 
occasion. the Colonel decided to use the 
new faun statue as a hall decoration. 

If retumed to flesh, the satyr will bab- 
ble about how four thrones must have 
been filled. sing about the loveliness of 
springtime and some lion being back in 
town, and then run off in search of the 
nearest interdimensional wardrobe. 

Area 7: Headquarters 

This room is, of course, Colonel Sand 
paper's headquarters. 

The true form of this room is plain and 
virtually unadomed. (The only real ob- 
jects to be found here are Sandpaper's 
spell books; these are kept in a wall niche 
hidden by a permanent illusion). 

The room is enchanted to respond to 
Sandpaper's will and appear as the Colo 
nel desires. The appearance that the 
Colonel chooses will depend on the com- 
position of the party. Since he wants to 
choose a decor that will appeal to the ma- 
jority, the general class that the party 
composition leans toward most deter 
mines the room's appearance and the 
colonel's actions: 

Fighter (the Loyal Soldier approach): 
The room appears as spartan barracks, 
and Sandpaper seems to be a warrior in 
full battie dress. He describes liis opera 
tions as a quest to serve the greater glory 
of the General Public, and besides that, 
he was only following orders. 

Magic-Users (the Seeker of Knowl- 
edge approach): The room appears to be 
a combination alchemy laboratory and re 
search library. Wearing a white apron 
over a professor's gown, Sandpaper be- 
gins a leeture on the ecology of cocka 


trices and pyrolisks, and the sociology 
and unique powers of the Countertop off- 
shoot of the svirfneblin race. He explains 
that this information was only accessible 
through covert operations, and protests 
that. appearances aside, all Profits were 
used for humanitarian purposes only, and 
he was chiefly concemed in observing 
and recording the situation. 

Clerics (the Devout Believer ap 
proach): The room is adomed as the 
shrine of a deity worshiped by party 
members. Sandpaper, in priestly garb, 
explains that he has been bringing faith 
and hope to the Countertops, and waging 
a holy war against the infidel King Burger. 

Thieves (the Economic Pioneer ap 
proach): The room appears to be an afflu- 
ent merchant's office. The merchant 
himself, Sandpaper, explains that the ec 
onomic effeets of the Countertop Affair 
have been profoundly advantageous to 
the General Public. As to the ethical side 
of the Burger Wars-well. this is all free 
enterprise. As a corporate raider, Sand 
paper is of course a necessary part of the 
capitalistic system. 

The PCs most likely will have abso- 
lutely no idea of what Sandpaper is talking 
about, but that's OK. The objective is to 
confuse them and get them off their 
guard, so Sandpaper can face them in 
combat on his own terms. 

Colonel Sandpaper (human illusionist): 
AC -3; MV 12"; Il 26; hp 51; #AT 1; 
Dmg: THACO 11; SA & SD Spells, de- 
vices; AL LE; ST 16; IN 18; WI 13; DE 
18; CO 15; CH 17; Possessions: bracers 
of defense AC 3. ring of proteedon +2; 
Spells memorized: alter self, chaos, 
chromabc orb, conbnual darkness, con- 
tinual light, dancing lights, darkness, 
deafness, delude, demi-shadow magic, 
demi-shadow monsters, dispel exhaus- 
don. dispel magic, balludnatory terrah, 
hypnotic pattem, hypnobsm. major crea- 
bon, mass suggesbon, maze. misdirec- 
tion, permanent illusion, pbantasmal 
killer, pbantom armor, phantom wind, 
prismatic spray, prismabc wall. pro 
grammed illusion, projected image, rain- 
bow pattem, shades, shadow monsters, 
shadow walk, solid fog, spectral force, 
summon shadow, ultravision. ventrilo- 


86 









quism, vision, wall of fog, weird, whis- 
pering wind. 

If at all possible, Sandpaper will seek to 
neutralize party merabers. He can then 
make them into sympathy. General Pub 
lic's favorite dish. The recipe consists of 
shredded paper and player character, 
sawdust, and kerne! of truth. 

Area 8: Maze of Paperwork 

Actually. Paperwork lives in the Shred- 
ding Room (area 9), but he is in charge of 
maintaining the maze. Here in the maze 
one has random encounters with the 
Irate, Confused, Comatose and Crimi- 
nally Insane-each dealing with the maze 
in their own manner. A sample encounter 
list follows: 

1. Irate: Tronsuth the pit fiend is, to 
sav the least, irked to have recently been 
placed in this devil-forsaken dungeon as a 
prank, and he'd like to express his feel- 
ings in a most graphic and violent manner 
to anyone he meets. 

Pit Fiend: AC -3; MV6"/15": HD 13; 
hp 85; #AT 2; Dmg ld4 + 4/ld6 + 6; 
THACO 9; SA constriction, pyrotech- 
nics, produce dame, wall of fire, poly- 
morph self, hold person, gate (70% 
success: ld3 barbed devils (60%) or one 
pit fiend (40%), symbol of pain, radiate 
fearin20'r.; SD detect magic & invisible, 
regenerate 2 hp/round; MR 65%: AL LE 

2. Confused: This is a group of five fire 
giants who had been fighting a pleasant 
little war in Gladsheim when POOF! they 
found themselves miniaturized to the 
height of four feet and transported across 
the planes to this dungeon. Needless to 
say, they are quite bewildered. and would 
like very much to physically express their 
confusion and frustrations to anything 
that comes their way. Despite their size, 
they fight as normal fire giants. Each car- 
ries a total of approximately 3,000 gp in 
coins, gems, jeweiry, furs. etc. 

5 Fire giants: AC 3; MV 12": HD 
11+5; hp 62 each; #AT 1; Dmg 5d6; 
THACO 10; SD immune to fire; AL LE. 

3. Comatose: Three berbalangs. in as 
tral trances, are found ieaning against a 
wall in yoga positions. If their bodies are 
disturbed, the creatures' psyches return 


to them in ldlO rounds. 

3 Berbalangs: AC 6; MV 6'724"; HD 
1 +1; hp 9 each; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ 
ld6; THACO 18; AL CE 

4. Criminally insane-one beholder: 
AC 0/2/7; MV 3"; hp 75: #AT 1; Dmg 
2d4; THACO 7; SA charm person, charm 
monster, sleep, telekinesis. petrification, 
disintegration, fear. slow, cause serious 
wounds, death ray, SD anti-magic ray; 
ALLE 

The DM should check for these en 
counters whenever he feels like it, having 
the party run into one of them on a roil of 
1 on ld6. Each should be used only once. 

Area 9: Shredding Room 


This room is dominated by a giant, 
metal monster that puffs steam and 
makes hideous, screeching noises. 
Out of what appears to be a mouth 
comes a stream of shredded rubbish, 
which falis into a large vat. The mon 
ster seems to have another mouth on 
top of it; a gnome is dumping a bucket 
of paper into this. The gnome seems 
oblivious to your presence, since he 
pays you no attention as he runs 
around. examining knobs and protru- 
sions of the metal behemoth. 


The monster is a shredding machine- 
purely mechanical, steam-operated, and 
non-sentient. The gnome is named Pa 
perwork. Paperwork feeds raw materials 
into the shredder, which reduces them to 
thin strips that are then used for sandpa 
per production (see area 10). The shred 
der can also be used on PCs (it does 5dl0 
points of damage per round to any crea- 
ture placed in it), in preparation for mak- 
ing sympathy. 

Paperwork (gnome thief/illusionist): 
AC -1: MV 6": T 15/18: hp 65: #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6+2; THACO 14; SA & SD 
Spells, thieves' abilities; AL LN; ST 14, 
IN 19. Wl, 13. DE 18. CO 17, CH 10; 
Possessions: leather armor +3, ring of 
protection +2. dagger +2 longtooth; 
Spells: biur, color spray, dandng lights, 
fog cloud, gaze reflection, invisibility, 
rainbow pattem, spectral force, wall of 


fog, wraithform. 

Paperwork carries no treasure and is 
really concemed with nothing but main 
taining the maze and producing sandpa 
per. He fights only to defend himself, and 
even then prefers to flee or hide. Other- 
wise, he ignores all passers-by. 

Area 10: Sandpaper Production 


This is a very cluttered room. A most 
bizarre creature is in the center. It 
consists of two main parts: one is a cu- 
bic metal box, 10 feet on each side. 
This box is featureless, except for a 
thin horizontal slit across the middle of 
one face. A tangle of siime-dripping 
tubes connects the box to a giant, de- 
monic head, which is supported by a 
metal tripod. The head is covered with 
knobs and horns, glistening with ooze, 
and has a vast, gaping maw. Its slitted. 
serpentine eyes blink at you suspi- 
ciously. 

Scattered around the room are 
many sandstone statues of people and 
monsters. There are also several 
small stacks of sandpaper. 


The monster/machine is simply called 
the Sandpaper Producer, for lack of a bet- 
ter name. It is very stupid and of uncer- 
tain ancestry. The Colonel finds it useful, 
however, because of its curious diet and 
exerement. If fed a correct diet (and it 
must be fed: though possessing a vora- 
cious appetite, the monster is unable to 
move and acquire its own food) of sand 
stone and shredded paper, it will digest 
those substances and, after ld4 hours, 
exerete a magical waste product (from 
the box) that in appearance most closely 
resembles sandpaper. If crumpled up into 
a ball, this can be used as a weapon-if 
hurled against something (it can be 
thrown up to 30 feet), it explodes in a 
cloud of tiny mineral particles. The con- 
cussion of the explosion does 2d8 points 
of damage to those within 10 feet of the 
point of impact (successful saving throw 
vs. petrification for half damage). The 
cloud of particles obscures vision (as if a 
wall of fog 20 feet on a side) until it setties 









(in 2d4 rounds). 

Sandpaper producer: AC 0; MV Nil; 
(head)/5 (tubes)/-10 (box); HD 30; hp 
240 (head: 80, tubes: 40, box: 120); #AT 
1; Dmg: 10d6; THAC02, but can only at- 
tack something that comes within three 
feet of its mouth; SD corrosive ooze on 
head and tubes inflicts 3d8 damage to 
flesh that touches it and rums nonmagical 
objects. regenerates 5 hp/round (even if 
reduced to 0 hp or lower, like a troil) ex- 
cept electrical damage; MR 50%; AL N 

The Sandpaper Producer cannot initi- 
ate hostilities, since it is immobile. How- 
ever, it will not hesitate to bite something 
that comes too close. 

There are a total of 40 sheets of sand 
paper stored here, awaiting shipment to 
the Countertops. Nothing else here is of 
significant value. 

Area 11: Treasure Cache 

For those determined (or stupid) 
enough to hack their way through the 
Web of Intrigue, here's a prize. 


Outside the Web, as if a bubble of air 
blown in the solid rock, is this roughly 
spherical, 24-foot-diameter room. It is 
filled with a huge pile of rich treasure; 
the sight of gold, silver, gems and 
finely crafted jewelry delights your 
wonder-filled gazes. 


The treasure consists of 5,000 cp, 
6,000 sp. 3,000 ep, 4,000 gp. six base 
500 gp gems, eight pieces of jewelry 
worth a total of 15,614 gp. a potjon o f ex- 
tra healing. and a scroll of protection tom 
petrification. 

If the phase spiders haven't been en- 
countered (see Web of Intrigue) they will 
come here to attack characters sorting 
through the hoard. 

Area 12: Kitchen 


This 50-foot-square room is appar- 
ently a kitchen, though a terribly 
messy one. What grabs your attention 
most is a huge cauldron in the center 
of the room. Also. without any particu- 


lar organization, there are tables, ov 
ens, stoves, pots, pans, kettles, bar 
reis and crates of food and drink, racks 
of various utensils (mostly for cook- 
ing), a couple of maces and flails, meat 
cleavers (including a halberd), forks 
(not military), and a bastard sword, 
around which is laced a string of pop 
pies. 

Strewn all about are such foods as 
worm-infested meat, moldy bread, 
and overripe fruit. There's also plenty 
of sawdust, various partially-emptied 
containers of alcoholic beverages, and 
an occasional page tom from a recipe 
book and decorated with scribbled ob- 
scenities. Everything is covered with 
grime, and manv rats seurry around, 
eyeing newcomers warily. 


Inside the cauldron. which is being 
used as a primitive hot tub. are the cooks: 
three annis and a night hag. These evil 
she-monsters actually can prepare good 
meals for Colonel Sandpaper and his 
staff, but they are less than tidy house- 
keepers. They feed the cockatrices (area 
13) whatever they sweep up off the floor, 
which occasionally includes a rat or two. 
A special thrill for the cooks is to bake 
such delicacies as sympathy, one of Gen 
eral Public's favorites. They also like to 
cook for themselves any nonresident 
creature that they find on this level. 

3 Annis: AC 0; HD 7 +12: hp 60 each; 
#AT 3; Dmg ld8 + 8/ld8 + 8/2d4 + 1; 
THACO 12; SA grappling; SD fog cloud, 
change self, -1 dmg from edged 
weapons/+ 1 dmg from blunt weapons, 
MR 100% vs. illusion/phantasm only; AL 
CE 

Night Hag: AC 9; HD 8; hp 64; I AT 1; 
Dmg 2d6; THACO 12; SA magic missile 
(3/day; Dmg 2d8 ), ray of enfeeblement 
(3/day), know alignment, polymorph self, 
gate type I demon or barbed devil (50%/ 
50%; 50% chance of success); SD ethe- 
realness. project astrally, silver or iron or 
+3 or better weapon to hit, immune to 
sleep, charm, fear, fire, cold; MR 65%; 
AL NE; carries a periapt for astral travel 
(see Monster Manual, p. 73). 


Most of the room's 52 rats are of the 
normal variety; but seven are giant rats 
and three more are wererats. The were- 
rats infiltrated the level only recently; 
they are spies for King Burger. 

42 Ordinary Rats: AC 7; HD 1/4; hp 2 
each; #AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 21; SA dis- 
ease (30% chance to be carrier); AL N 

7 Giant Rats: AC 7; HD 1/2: hp4 each; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld3; THACO 21; SAdisease 
(60% chance to be carrier); AL N(E) 

3 Wererats: AC 6: HD 3 + 1; hp 25 
each; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; THACO 16; SA 
surprise on 1-4, control rats; SD silver or 
+1 or better magical weapon to hit; AL 
LE 

In all likelihood, the party will engage in 
melee with the cooks soon after entering 
the kitchen. The wererats will observe 
on the side; if it seems that the PCs are 
destined to win, the wererats will com- 
mand the giant and ordinary rats to fight 
on the cooks' side, because powerful ad 
venturers are a threat worse than cooks 
who were under surveillance anyway. 
The wererats will themselves avoid com- 
bat if at all possible, preferring to follow 
the party as it progresses through the 
dungeon. Then, at some opportune time 
(on this level or elsewhere) they will 
spring an ambush. 

The halberd among the utensils is a + 2 
magical weapon. The enflowered sword 
is a specially cursed/enchanted weapon: 
Its magic is meant to keep it from ever 
hitting a target, but if a particularly able 
and lucky character uses it. it may hit, 
and for devastating effects. If the ad- 
justed hit roil (i.e., with Strength bo 
nuses and so on) is 22 or higher, the 
sword will hit a target of any Armor 
Class, and will inflict 5d6 hit points of 
damage. On anv lower roli, the sword will 
miss (even if the target is AC 10!). For 
purposes of characters requiring magical 
weapons to be hit, the enflowered sword 
is treated as a + 5 weapon, though it has 
no bonuses for hit rolis or damage. 

Additional treasure is to be found in one 
of the ovens: 3,000 pp, 20 base 500 gp 
gems, and three flasks of oil ( Nystul's 
magic aura has been placed on one). 


88 












Area 13: Flying the Coop 

On the door to this room is posted the 
followmg notice. 


WARNING: This room contains pyro- 
lisks and cockatrices, which may make 
you smoke, stone you, and otherwise 
be hazardous to your health. 

(Signed) C. Everett, Coop Surgeon, 
General Public's friend 


The room beyond is indeed filled with 
the bird-monsters and their nests. There 
are presently 12 cockatrices and eight 
pyrolisks here. 

12 Cockatrices: AC 6; HD 5: hp 23 
each; #AT 1: Dmg ld3; THACO 15: SA 
petrification; AL N 

8 Pyrolisks: AC 6: HD 4+3: hp 21 
each; #AT 1; Dmg2d4; THACO 15; SA 
gaze causes victim to explode into flames 
(instant death)-successful saving throw 
vs. petrification reduces to ldl2 + l 
points of damage: SD immune to fire; AL 
NE 

The monsters are not immediately 
hostile to intruders-they usually know 
better than to indiscriminately slay those 
who feed and care for them. but they 
don't know enough to tell a party of ad- 
ventorers from their caretakers. If char- 
acters attack the pyrolisks and 
cockatrices or try to take any of their 
treasure, however, they will be assaulted 
without hesitation. 

The monsters' treasure is kept in their 
nests. Gathered together, it totals 1.318 
pp, 4,673 gp. 3,801 ep, 2,548 sp, 5,487 
cp, and 34 pieces of jewelry totalling 
14,118 gp value. Many feathers are of 
course found in the nests; detect magic 
would reveal that three feathers are 
magical- Quaal's feather tokens, in faet 
(fan, swan boat, and whip). 

Also of possible interest is a petrified 
human-C. Everett, the monsters' 
former caretaker, who made the mistake 
of thinking they wouldn't mind his taking 
a little necklace. 


Area 14: Chicken Tender 
Training Ground 

This room is very large-70 feet by 50 
feet-and entirely empty. It is part of Sand- 
paper's latest scheme to aid the Counter- 
top insurrection. He is workmg on creating 
"chicken tenders," special cockatrices who 
will infiltrate the ranks of King Burger's 
Profits. The tenders are trained in this 
room, but it is not in use at the moment. 

The Market 

This is the vast, natural cavem of this 
level. Most of it is covered with thick for- 
ests of fungi. There are many and varied 
species, from slime molds to tall, stalk- 
like growths, as well as giant and normal 
mushrooms. Characters may be tempted 
to ingest some of the fungi; if they do, roli 
ldl2 to determine the effeets (which ap- 
pear after 2d4 rounds): 

I. Curative: Will restore ld4 hit points 
to a wounded character. 

2-9. Edible: No special effeets. 

10. Poisonous: Causes 2d8 points of 
damage (save for half). 

II. Laxative: Character effeetively in- 
capacitated for ld8 turns. 

12. Hallucinogenic: For possible ef 
feets, see basidirond ( MM2 , p. 15). 

The fungi forests provide a haven for 
the Countertops, and for this reason King 
Burger is having them cut down. 

The landscape is also adomed with 
stalagmites of all sizes. Some huge ones 
actually connect with stalactites, forming 
limestone pillars that rise from floor to 
ceiling; these are noted on the map. 

Except where pits and plateaus are 
shown, the floor has a more or less gentie 
slope from the walls down to the Pool of 
Resources (area 19). 

Ideological Struggles: The struggle 
between the Countertops and Profits is 
more than a mere territorial dispute. It is 
the clash of two opposing philosophies, 
irreconcilable ideologies. In most wars a 
truce can be negotiated; but the rift be 
tween Countertops and Profits is so pro- 
found that only annihilation of one side 
can provide a resolution. 


The Profits, on the one hånd, claim to 
be the manifestation of progress. They 
believe progress is inevitable, and there- 
fore they will emerge victorious by virtue 
of the inexorabie process of history. 
Many Profits are spellcasters, since their 
ideology favors the cerebral and arcane. 
They symbolize civilization and progress, 
but at the price of innocence and purity; 
the gain of organization comes with the 
loss of individuality. This is illustrated by 
the faet that. though of diverse racial ori- 
gins, all become little more than numbers 
when grouped as Profits. 

On the other hånd, Countertops are 
long-lived and virtually unchanging, al 
most part of the Market itself; they are 
doser to material things (hence their dru- 
idic powers). Disorganized, brutal, and 
impulsive, civilization and culture are 
alien concepts to them. They represent 
the darker side of nature: violence, 
chaos, and uncontrolled power. 

It is perhaps ironic that Colonel Sand- 
paper, who is so like the Profits, is aiding 
the Countertops, but such are the quirks 
of politics. 

Countertop Rebels 

These insurgents are in faet a peculiar 
offshoot of the deep gnome, or svirfneblin, 
race. They are to be treated as svirfneblin 
(see FIEND FOLIO  tome for descrip- 
tion), with the following modifications: 

Alignment is neutral with chaotic ten- 
dencies. 

Countertops may not be illusionists; 
they may, however, be druids, and they 
excel in this field as well as their 
svirfneblin cousins do in the other. 

Instead of summoning earth elemen 
tals, the higher-level Countertops are 
able to summon soft drink refill elemen 
tals from the demi-plane of Soft Drinks 
(which is located near the demi-planes of 
Gelatin, Chocolate Milk, and Crankcase 
Oil). Countertops of 6th level or higher 
may attempt the summoning once per 
day. The specific type of elemental is de 
termined by rolling ld20: 

1. Extracaffeinated Cola Elemental 
(AC 1; MV 12"; HD 24; hp 108; *AT 1; 
Dmg 5d6: THACO 7; SD straw (Dmg 1 


89 








hp) or +2 or better weapon to hit; AL N) 
A side effect of this colossaJ being is to 
negate any sleep spells or effects within a 
30-yard radius. 

2-6. Diet Soft Drink Elemental (AC 1; 
MV 18"; HD 16; hp 72; AAT 1; Dmg 5d6; 
THACO 7; SA Those struck must roil a 
successful saving throw vs. poison or suf- 
fer nausea [incapacitation for ld4 melee 
rounds]; SD straw or +2 or better 
weapon to hit; AL N) 

7-10. Lemon-Lime Soft Drink Elemen 
tal (AC 1; MV 15"; HD 12; hp 54: #AT 1; 
Dmg 5d6; THACO 9; SD straw or +2 or 
better weapon to hit; AL N) 

11-15. Orange Soft Drink Elemental 
(AC 1; MV 24"; HD 8; hp 36; MT 1; 
Dmg 5d6; THACO 12; SD straw or +2 
or better weapon to hit; AL N) 

16-18. Swamp Water Elemental. This 
creature is a mixture of the other soft 
drink elementals. The Chemical reactions 
of all those unnatural elements makes 
tilis an unsightly and fearsome creature. 
In addition to its normal attack, the mon 
ster can spit carbonic acid each round. 
splashing one target for damage equal to 
the swamp water elemental's current hit 
point total (saving throw vs. breath 
weapon for half damage). The elemen 
tal's stats are AC -2; MV 18"; HD 10; 
hp 50; MT 1 + breath weapon: Dmg 
5d6: THACO 10; SA Acid spit; SD straw 
or +1 or better weapon lo hit; AL N . 

19-20. Summoning fails. 

Watery and usually flat, soft drink refill 
elementals are very similar to water ele 
mentals. The ice found in them provides 
them with the lower Armor Class. 

The Countertops found on this 
dungeon level are fairly high level, having 
been trained extensively by Colonel 
Sandpaper. They are a fairly crude lot, 
however, and are as likely (and as happy) 
to attack strangers as minions of King 
Burger. Standard stats are provided here 
for simplicity: 

4th-level Countertops: AC 1; MV 

12"; HD 4 + 7; hp 32 each; MT 1 or 2; 
Dmg by weapon (carry non-magical dag 
ger + 1, pick +1, and darts); THACO 15 
(+2 to hit with darts); SA blindness, 
change self. surprise 90% of the time; SD 


biur, non-detection, +3 on all savings 
throws except poison (which is +2), poi 
son gas crystals. immune to illusions: MR 
25%; AL CN 

5th-level Countertops: Stats as 
above, except AC 0; HD 5+8; hp40; MR 
30% 

6th-level Countertops: Stats as 
above, except AC -1; HD 6 + 9; hp 47; 
THACO 13; SA summon soft drink refill 
elementals: MR 35% 

Countertop Druid: Stats as 6th-level 
Countertop, plus the abilities of a 7th-level 
druid (typical spell selection: cure Ught 
woiwds, detect snares and pits, dispel 
magic, entangle. faene fire, heat metal, 
neutralize poison, pass without trace, 
snare, spike growth, trip, warp wood. 

Each Countertop carries 2d6 base 100 
gp gems and four sheets of magical sand 
paper (see area 10). 

Profits 

This is the general term for any being 
that supports King Burger. Some specific 
varieties are as follows: 

Gross Profits (aboleths): AC 4: HD 
8; hp 49 each; MT 4; Dmg ld6 (x4); 
THACO 12; SA slime transformation, il 
lusion, charm; SD mucus cloud (in wa 
ter); AL LE 

Net Profits (kuo-toan priest- 
princes): AC 4; HD 10; hp 70 each; MT 
1; Dmg by weapon +1 (armed with dag 
ger, spear, and weighted throwing net); 
THACO 9; SA lightning stroke, abilities 
of lOth-level cleric and assassin; SD skin 
secretion, detect invisible AL LE; Typi 
cal spell selection: curse, bless, cloak of 
fear. command, cure light wounds, cure 
(orcause) serious wounds. dispel magic, 
dame stiike, hold person, magic stone, 
meld into stone, protection from good 10' 
r., silence 15' r., spiritual hammer, true 
seeing, withdraw 

Profits of Doom (spirit nagas): AC 4; 

HD 10; hp 65 each; AAT 1; Dmg ld3; 
THACO 10; SA poison, charm gaze; AL 
LE; Typical spell selection (magic-user): 
magic missile. Melfs acid arrow, Melfs 
minute meteors, ray of enfeeblement, 
shocking grasp, unseen servant; (cleric): 


command, protection tom good, wyvem 
watch 

The DM is encouraged to alter the 
spell choices as he wishes. Profits do not 
usually carry treasure. 

Random Encounters 

Since this level is so large, and space for 
description is timked. it is recommended 
that the DM utilize random encounters to 
add interest to its exploration. On a roil of 1 
on ldlO (check for each hex entered), 
there will be a random encounter. Roli again 
to determine what the PCs encounter (all 
creatures can be assumed to be hostile un- 
less otherwise noted): 

1-3. Corporate Raiders: A party of 
Countertops in search of Profits. It con- 
sists of ld4 + 1 4th-level, ld4 5th-level, 
ld3 6th-level. and 0-2 druid Countertops. 

4. Id4 +1 spirit nagas. 

5. Id4 +1 kuo-toans. 

6. Profit Sharing: Characters stumble 
upon a skirmish between Profits and 
Countertops; on the Profit side are ld2 
spirit nagas and ld3 kuo-toans. They face 
ld4 4th-level Countertops, ld3 5th-level 
Countertops, ld2 6th-level Countertops, 
and a Countertop druid. 

7. Ascomoid: AC 3; HD 6 + 6; hp 54; 
AAT 1; Dmg special; THACO; SA spore 
jet; SD not harmed by blunt weapons, 1 
point damage from slashing and cutting 
weapons (but double damage from pierc- 
ing weapons more than six feet long), 
save at +4 and take 50% damage from 
magical attacks except cold, immune to 
mind-influendng magic; AL N(E) 

8.2 Basidironds: AC 4; HD 5 + 5; hp 40 
each; AAT 1; Dmg 2d4; THACO; SA 
smothering, hallucinatory spores; SD im 
mune to mind-influencing magic, coid- 
based attacks do no damage, but they 
slow the basidironds and prevent spore 
attacks; AL N(E) 

9. Id4 Violet Fungi: AC 7; HD 3; hp 
24 each; AAT 4; Dmg special; THACO 16 
(can only attack creatures within four feet 
of it); SA rot flesh; AL N 

10. Id3 Ustilagors: AC 5; HD 3 + 3; hp 
26 each: AAT 1; Dmg ld4 +1; THACO; 
SA alkaline fluids, psionics; SD immune 
to mind-influencing magic; AL N(E). 








Area 15: Rebel Encampments 

Though the Countertops are generally 
on the move, they do occasionally make 
large encampments such as these to launch 
big attacks. In an encampment are found 
2d6 4th-level Countertops, 2d4 5th-level, 
ld6 6th-level, and ld4 druids. They are au- 
tomatically hostile, since all s trangers are 
assumed to be agents of King Burger. 

Area 16: Profit Outpost 

These are round towers, 40 feet in di 
ameter and painted nauseating green 
with gray trim. from which the Profits ob- 
serve King Burgers domain. Each tower 
has four floors, plus a dungeon/ 
basement. and is staffed by se ven Profits 
of Doom and five Net Profits. 

In the dungeon is kept the outpost's 
treasure: Id6x200 pp and 3d4 gems of 
base 100 gp value. There is also a 25% 
chance of the dungeon holding a Counter- 
top prisoner who has not yet been inter- 
rogated and executed (roil ld4: 1 = 
4th-level Countertop, 2 = 5th-level, 3 = 
6th-level, 4 = druid). This Countertop 
gladly assists in destroying the outpost, 
but afterward disappears into the fungi 
forest as soon as possible. 

Area 17: Illithid Camp 

This level of the dungeon was just re 
cently discovered by mind flayers. Their 
tentative plan is to enslave the Counter 
tops. and either destroy King Burger or 
make an alliance with him. Studying the 
situation are four powerful illithids; and 
their camp is this pit. 

4 Mind Flayers: AC 5; HD 8+4; hp 66, 
64, 62. 60: #AT 4; Dmg 2 each: THACO 
12; SA mind biast, brain eating; Psionic 
abilities: astral projection, body equilib- 
rium, domination, ESP, levitation, proba- 
bility travel: MR 90%: AL LE 

A large, locked chest, with contact poi- 
son on the lock (save for 2d8 damage or 
die), contains the illithids' treasure: 
1,000 gp, six gems (worth 50 gp, 1,000 
gp (2), 1,100gp, 1,200gp. and 2,000gp), 
a scimitar of speed, two scrolls {protec- 
tion from petriBcation, possession ), and a 
potion of extra-bealing. 


Area 18: Car Pool 

This pool is named after Car, a Coun 
tertop who drowned in it several years 
ago. It is sometimes called the "transpor- 
tation pool," because of the patch of 
pearly opalescence on the bottom, 
through which monsters from the Ran 
dom Monster Generator enter this level. 

Area 19: Pool of Resources 

This is the home of four Gross Profits. 
Since they are not very mobile on land, 
they spend most of their time in the Re- 
source Pool. Countertops know better 
than to go near the pool: more than one 
careless gnome has fallen into the abo- 
leths' slimy clutches. 

At the bottom of the resource pool are 
stone ruins, the remnants of an ancient 
race that preceded King Burger and the 
Countertops. There the aboleths have 
stored their treasure: 4,000 gp, 700 pp, a 
potion of polymorph self, and a suit of 
gnome-sized chain mail +1. 

Area 20: Palace of King Burger 

Atop a hili in the southeastem part of 
the Market is the palace of King Burger. 
It is a windowless building with one 
entrance-huge double doors facing 
Southwest. The charred walls drip with 
unwholesome substances: red, white and 
yellow slimes (non-monster), and scat- 
tered chunks of green and white solids. 
Anyone foolish enough to touch this hor 
rid, caustic material will suffer ld4 + l 
points of damage from Chemical bums. 

Beyond the doors is King Burger's au- 
dience hall. The interior walls are identi- 
cal in nature to those outside. 

Area 20A-Audience Hall: In this 
room King Burger speaks with his Profits 
and anyone else who can tolerate his 
presence. The room is fomished only 
with stone benches along the walls and, 
10 feet in front of the door to his room, 
King Burger's throne (sculpted from 
salt). A guard of four Net Profits is always 
to be found here. 

Area 20B-Stairs to Level 9: A gi- 

gantic gray ooze covers these. 

Gray Ooze: AC 8: HD 15 + 15; hp 80; 


#AT 1; Dmg 2d8; SA corrode metal; SD 
impervious to heat, cold; MR immune to 
spe lis (except electricity); AL N 

Area 20C-King Burger's Cham- 
ber: The only thing in this room is King 
Burger-if "only" can apply to him. He is 
a close relative of the demon Juiblex, in 
faet, and has almost identical characteris- 
tics and statistics. 

King Burger: AC -7; hp 88; #AT 1; 
Dmg 4dl0; THACO 7; SA spew ochre- 
slime, magic use ( darkness 15' r., cause 
fear, circle of cold 10' r., detect invisible. 
locate object, ESP, By, dispel magic, in- 
\isibility 10' r.. charm monster, hold mon 
ster, telekinese 15,000 gp weight, 
project image, phase door, putrefy food 
and water, cause disease, speak with 
monsters, unholy word), psionics; SD 
+2 or better weapon to hit, regenerates 
2 hp/round, half damage from cold, elec 
tricity, fire. gas; MR 65%; AL CE 

Area 20D-Just Desserts: This 
room is locked, with a poison needle trap 
(saving throw vs. poison or dissol ve into 
a mass of protoplasm; successful save re 
sults in only 2d6 points of damage), since 
it contains King Burger's most precious 
things: his treasure and his pets. 

2 Black Puddings: AC 6; HD 10; hp 55 
each; HAT 1; Dmg 3d8; THACO 10; SA 
dissolve wood & metal; SD lightning and 
blows divide it into smaller puddings, im 
mune to acid, cold, poison; AL N 

Ochre Jelly: AC 8; HD 6; hp 48; #AT 1; 
Dmg 3d4; THACO 13; SD lightning bolts 
divide it into smaller jellies: AL N 

King Burger's treasure is kept in huge 
stone coffers, protecting it from his cor- 
rosive pets. The hoard consists of 50,000 
cp, 30,000 sp. 10,000 ep, 10,000 gp. 
3,000 pp, 316 gems and pieces of jeweliy 
(worth a total of 78,915 gp), a suit of elf- 
sized plate mail +2, a wand of paralyza- 
tion (with 75 charges), and a rod of 
resurrection (29 charges). 


91 








This dungeon level was created to stimu- 
late thought about some of the important 
themes in life, from violent conflict to 
love. Of course, the methods used to 
stimulate thought are highly chaotic in 
nature. 

On this level are a number of important 
personages: the shade demi-deity 
Darklock is imprisoned in a block of black 
malachite, the demon prince Graz'zt may 
make an appearance, and there are a 
large number of high level characters and 
creatures in the Limbo Arena area, some 
of whom are seeking clues to the nature 
of the Random Monster Generator or are 
out to steal the device. This is a danger- 
ous level. 

The ceilings of this level are 20 feet 
high, and covered with long, sharp Steel 
spikes. All corridors are lit with non- 


dispellable shadowy light (thieves hide in 
shadows at +10%). 

Divination-type spells, such as divina 
tion. detect magic. detect evil, augury, 
and Gnd traps. have a 75% chance of fail- 
ure on this level. Every square inch of 
this level radiales with a Leomund's trap. 

On the map key, two special phenom- 
ena are listed: "P" refers to Portals. All 
random monsters created by the Random 
Monster Generator that appear on this 
level materialize on a teleportal square. 
The chance of a random monster appear- 
ing is 1 in 4 per hour, for each teleportal. 

The map designation "T" refers to a 
magical trap that is activated when the 
trapped square is stepped on. The trap is 
determined at random, and each time the 
trap is activated, there is the possibility of 
a different effect. 


Roli ld8 and consult the following list 
when checking for traps. 

1) 30-foot-deep pit trap opens up, inflict- 
ing 6d6 damage, and the victim(s) must 
make a Constitution Check at -2 or be 
stunned for ld 12 rounds. 

2) Dispel magic (at 25th level of magic- 
use) on all magical items and active spells 
on the victim. 

3) Acid cloud causes 12d6 damage (save 
vs. dragon breath for half damage)- 
affects all in a 20' radius. 

4) Ceiling fails on victim, save vs. dragon 
breath or die. otherwise take 12d6 dam 
age. 

5) Arrows hit all creatures within a 20- 
foot radius of the trap, causing ld6 dam 
age. Damage from these arrows must 
heal naturally, as a sword of wounding. 

6) Reverse gravity into ceiling, doing 3d6 


92 





















































































damage, plus 2d6 x 6 points of damage 
from the ceiling's many spikes. 

7) Character must save vs. petrification 
or be tumed to stone, and even if saving 
throw is made, he receives a curse, as in 
the bestow curse spell. 

8) Two random monsters, as created by 
the Random Monster Generator, appear 
and attack. 

Stairway from Level 8 

At the bottom of the stairway is a trap; 
the last stair is an illusion, the first person 
stepping off the stair must make a Dex- 
terity Check at -4 or fali on his face. He 
will not take any damage, but as soon as 
he hits the floor, a magic mouth of hideous 
laughter will be triggered, followed by a 
message: 


"Welcome to the ninth level of my 
dungeon. You will find this a restful 
place, perhaps even your final restful 
place! Ha. ha, ha, now you just 
couldn't resist a little humor now. 
could you? Anyhow, this level is the* 
matic, designed to be informative and 
instructive, to help you ponder the im- 
portant things in life, which are often 
ignored by you brutes who spend your 
stupid lives hacking and slaying. Why 
do you do it, anyway? Never mind, if 
you survive, 1*11 speak to you about it 
later, just enjoy yourselves. There's 
lots to kill on this level, so you should 
be very happy here." 


Area 1: Room of Love 

This room is painted in pinkish tones 
and covered with statuary of lovers. 
Three columns, adorned with carved 
male and female figures, support the 
room. An overbearing perfume lingers, a 
sweet fragrance that is 10 times stronger 
than it needs to be. On the walls, if you 
examine closely, is graffiti saving: "Mor- 
denkainen loves Istus" (in a heart, of 
course), and "Robilar loves Robilar." 

The statues and the columns are not 
magical. but everything else in this room 
is; this room is very nasty. Upon entry, 


two stanzas of a poem will be recited by 
the same voice that greeted the charac- 
ters when they entered the level. When 
the verse is concluded, an action will take 
place. Characters have one round to de- 
cide whether they should leave the room 
or face the consequences of the next 
verse. If they attempt to use dispel magic 
to counter any of the room's effects, 
(i.e., prevent a vision from forming or 
creatures from being summoned), the 
room should be treated as 25th level for 
purpose of dispel magic. 

Harken to that word of words, 

O Love, of all songs most absurd, 

Worshiped by youth, longed for by the 
aged; 

That neverending battie in which we're 
engaged. 

TU show you Love, And let you see, 

A charming couple; in greatest ecstasy. 

In throes of passion, Iggwilv and 
Graz'zt. 

Before came Iuz, that pint-sized brat. 

Suddenly, a vision appears of a demo- 
ness and a beautiful witch. "Graz'zt dar- 
ling," she coos, and the black-skinned 
demon nearly melts. "Can I ask you for 
something?" 

"Anything, most loved." Graz'zt re- 
plies. 

"I. weU, I...I'd reaUy like a party of ad 
venturers, darling..." 

"Is that aU?" Graz'zt waves his fist. 
Suddenly, a dozen demons appear in the 
room: two type III, two type IV, a type 
VI, a nabassu, and six babau. 

2 Tvpe III Demons: AC -4; MV 9"; 
HD 10; hp 56, 51; #AT 5; Dmg 2d6/2d6/ 
Id3/ld3/ld4 + 1; THACO 10; SA fiear, 
le vita te, pyrotechnics, polymorph self, 
telekinesis (4,000 gp), gate (Type I, II, 
III (33% each), 30% chance of success); 
SD darkness (10' radius); MR 60%; XP 
3,184) 

2 Type IV Demons: AC -1; MV 9" I 
12" (E); HD 11; hp 66, 60: H AT 3; Dmg 
Id4/ld4/2d4; THACO 8; SA create illu 
sion, detect magic, dispel magic, fear. 
levitate, polymorph self, project image, 
telekinesis (5,000 gp), symbol (fear or 


discord), gate (Type I. II, III, IV (25% 
each), 60% chance of success); SD dark 
ness (10' radius), +1 or better weapon 
to hit; MR 65%; XP 3,976 

Type VI Demon: AC -2; MV 6"/ 
15" (D); HD 8+8; hp 62; #AT 1; Dmg 
ldl2 + l; THACO 12+ ; SA whip and 
flame (4d6) fear, detect magic, dispel 
magic, read magic/languages, pyrotech- 
nics, suggestion, telekinesis (6,000 gp), 
svmbol (fear/discord/sleep/stun ing), 
gate (Type III (80%), IV (20%), 70% 
chance of success); SD darkness (10' ra 
dius), + 1 or better weapon to hit; MR 
75%; XP 4,324 

Nabassu: AC -4; MV 15'715"(C); 
HD 5 +18; hp 43; ft AT 3; Dmg 2d4/2d4/ 
3d4; THACO 13; SA death stealing (save 
vs. death magic or become a ghast), be 
stow death (must successfully steal death 
first, save vs. death magic or become a 
shadow); SD shadowy light (20' radius), 
darkness (5' radius), thief abilities, +1 or 
better weapon to hit; MR 45%; XP 2,316 

6 Babau: AC -3; MV 15"; HD 7 + 14; 
hp 63, 60. 51, 47, 43, 41; #AT 1 or 3; 
Dmg By Weapon ( + 7) or ld4 + l/ 
ld4 + l/2d4; THACO 12; SA fear. levi 
tate, fly, dispel magic, polymorph self, 
heat metal, ray of enfeeblement, gate 
(babau, 25% chance of success); SD cut- 
ting weapons do half damage; MR 50%; 
XP 2,756 

These demons are a very unorganized 
attack force; they wiU not coordinate 
their attacks, but lash out with as much 
raw power as possible. The Type VI De 
mon will attempt to sit back and gate as 
many demons as it can, getting involved 
in the fight only if a fighter chooses to en 
gage it in melee combat. 

If a party member is kiUed in this fight, 
he wfll vanish, only to reappear in the vi 
sion as a tiny creature in the palm of Ig 
gwilv's hånd. Iggwilv wiU swaUow the 
party member three rounds after death, 
causing permanent destruction; a wish or 
limited wish is required to rescue the 
character. 

If the party members defeat the de 
mons, Iggwilv wiU give Graz'zt a very an- 
gry ståre. 


93 






Despite this setback, all is set aright, 

Or awrong, if you hate these fiends of 
Night. 

But in the Abyss, there was great cele- 
bration, 

Fiends and banes comprised the 
Daraned congregation; 

To the Loving pair, on whom black for- 
tune smiled: 

Came many cheers and whoops of a 
party most wild. 

On the proud couple, many gifts were 
bestowed. 

But did they forget about all the biood 
that has flowed? 

A vision of great wealth will appear; 
these are the wedding presents of Ig- 
gwilv and Graz'zt. If the characters reach 
into the hoard, they find that they are able 
to grab some gems (two rabies worth 
5,000 gp each), some platinum ingots 
(worth 15,000 gp), and a bright gold 
statue. If they grab it and examine it, they 
will find inscribed on its base: "From Or- 
cus With Love." 

Suddenly, Orcus's gift will explode, 
causing 20d6 damage to everyone in the 
room (save vs. death magic for half dam 
age). Then the poem will continue. 

Love is in spirit. Love is in flesh. 

And from flesh's Love, can come quite 
a mess. 

So it was with them, they had a son, 

His father's son, born to be scum. 

luz, the Powerful (and long-winded 
too). 

Iuz, the Delicious, whom daddy would 
chew, 

He licked his foul lips, and lifted the tot. 

But Iuz was hungry, daddy's thumb got 
caught. 

(In baby's fangs, that is . . .) 


The course of true Love ne'er runs 
smooth, 

As this Demon Prince and witch cer- 
tainly prove, 

They loved other creatures, their lust 
was an itch. 

Iuz loved a succubus, and Iggwilv a 
lich. 

Then they leamed the truth; long the 
Abyss shook, 

Great were the fires and demons did 
cook. 

Ask Graz'zt of the details, if he doesn't 
lie. 

He'll be here any second, good-bye! 

Suddenly, Graz'zt will materialize in 
the chamber. He will be angry. The char 
acters will have to flee or fight off the de 
mon prince. 

Graz'zt: AC -6; MV 12"; HD 41; hp 
186; MT 4; Dmg 2d4 + 7/2d4 + 7/ 
3d4 + 10/3d4 +10; THACO 3; SA alter 
reaUty (for others), chaos, continual 
darkness, disintegrate (1/day), dispel 
magic, duo-dimension, emotion, fear (60' 
radius), magic missile (five missiles), 
mirror image, polymorph any object (1/ 
day), polymorph other, polymorph self, 
read magic, telekinesis (15,000 gp), tele 
port, trap the soul (1/week, vanish, veil 
(1/day), wafer breathing, gate (ld2 Type 
VI Demons (60%), ld4 + l Babau 
(40%)); SD +1 or better weapon to hit; 
MR 70%; XP 60,000 

Graz'zt is angry, but prefers not to get 
involved in a fight if his back isn't against 
the wall. If he recognizes any of the party 
members (from reputation or previous 
encounters) he will not blmdly lash out, 
but gate creatures to do his bidding, and 
then teleport back to the Abyss, making a 
mental note that he should rid himself of 
these irritants (so many things for a de 
mon prince to do!) If he does not recog- 
nize the party, he will attack, but will 
retreat regardless if he sustains more 
than 50 hit points of damage in a round, or 
is brought below 100 hp. 


So end my thoughts on Love, now you 
know, 

And knowing is half the battie, so 

Perhaps you didn't find a fortune in 
gold. 

At least you weren't tumed into cattle, 
I'm told. 

Don't fail in Love, be an optimist, 

I'm sorry if this was a difficult jest. 

This poet's lament was really quite 
hard, 

But then again, whæver said I'm a 
bard? 

Area 2: Room of Tolerance 

The door to this room is wizard locked. 
In the center of the room are three gob- 
lins holding baskets. The room has a ran- 
cid smell, like rotting garbage, although 
except for a few discarded fruit peels, the 
room is barren. The goblins begin pelting 
the characters with rotten vegetables 
(they are otherwise unarmed). 

One of the goblins will cry out as soon 
as he sees the adventurers: "We are the 
goblins of Ghu!'' (followed by the other 
goblins chiming in "Ghu!'') "And we 
know what to do!" "Do!" Then they will 
begin shouting nasty insults such as: 
" Your father was a suit of armor, and your 
mother was an air elemental,'' or "Why 
do barbarians hate magic-users? They're 
jealous of anyone stupider than they are," 
or "Is that your face, or does Juiblex use 
it for a spitoon?" 

The goblins aren't goblins at all; in ac- 
tuality, they are nilbogs. They consider 
themselves to be invincible, and live only 
to humiliate people; they will not attack to 
inflict physical damage. They survive by 
eating from their ever-full baskets of rot 
ten food. They are extremely happy to 
get a chance to insult people. after such a 
long time. When they can no longer think 
of suitable insults, they will begin throw- 
ing rotten food again at the characters, 
chanting: "Ghu! Ghu! Ghu!" inanobnox- 
ious high-pitched squeal. 








3 Nilbogs: AC 6; MV 6"; HD 1-1; hp 
6.5,4; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; THACO 20; SA 
nil; SD gain hit points per strike; XP 59) 

These nilbogs are a very special sort, 
and are not affected by healing spells and 
potions. However, if the party is frus- 
trated by their inability to kill them, one of 
the nilbogs will shout: "You cannot kill us, 
silly adventurers, we have no weakness. 
Actually, we have a weakness, but we 
aren't going to tell you!" If the characters 
ask what it is, thev will laugh and say: 
"Well, it isn't saying our name forward- 
ooops!" The weakness is saying their 
names backward; pronouncing the word 
does 1 point of damage to each Goblin of 
Ghu within a 20-foot radius. The nilbogs 
have no treasure. 

Area 3: Room of Foolhardiness 

This room is adomed with tapestries 
showing heroic disasters: dragons slay- 
ing knights, mages' experiments going 
awry, children's crusades ending with the 
children being sold into slavery. Upon en 
try in the room, the characters will see a 
young man, a farmboy, tied to a block of 
black granite, as an axe-bladed pendulum 
slowly descends. It will touch down in a 
few minutes. He is screaming in terror. 

This is actually a programmed illusion. 
The illusion hides a sphere of annihilation. 
If the player characters rush in to save 
him, the first PC will be mstantly annihi- 
lated. If the PC s carefully examine the 
room in the few minutes remaining be- 
fore the axe-blade falis, they will discover 
that is an illusion. If a character falis into 
the trap, a new image will appear the tap- 
estrv, showing the PC jumping into the 
sphere, as the tapestrv adds to its gallery 
of foolish deeds. 

Area 4; Room of Chance 

This room is garishly lit and covered 
with suits of armor, large statues, 
wooden boxes, and curtains. To the right 
hånd side of the entrance is a small 
stepped area with seats, which hold 
about 100 phantasmal people, dressed in 
weird costumes, like a masquerade for 
the insane. As soon as the characters en- 


ter the room, the crowd cheers hysteri- 
cally, and a nasal voice shouts: "Welcome 
to 'Steal A Fortune,' the Multiverse's 
most exciting hour of fun and prizes. And 
here's your host, Jack Shade-pat, and his 
beautiful assistant, Zanna the Wight!" 

Jack Shade-Pat, and Zanna are both il 
lusions; if either are attacked, they disap- 
pear and another illusion takes their 
place. The effects of their deals, how 
ever, are quite real. Some of these games 
are as follows: 

Game #1: "Trivial Trades." Jack will of 
fer a character 50 gold pieces for every 
torch that he has on his person, or "if you 
have a tinder box, I'U give you 1,000 gp!" 

Game #2: "What Will You Do For 
Bucks." Jack will offer the character 500 
gp if he sings "Happy Birthday" to Zanna 
(tell the player to role-play the singing, or 
no gold pieces). 

Game #3: "Not-so Trivial Trades." 
Jack will come up to the character and 
say: "That looks like a pretty nice magi- 
cal sword. I'U give you 500 gold pieces for 
it. and trade you what's in the box." (At 
which point the audience will shout: 
"Take the box!") Roil ld6 to determine 
w'hat's in the box. 

1) A Year's Supply of Dragon Turtie 
Swordshining Polish ("To give your 
sword the Dragon Turtie gieam, which 
will put fear into your enemies in battie.") 

2) +3 Dagger ("Beautifully crafted by 
the grey elf smith Aldenor Masterforge, 
this dagger has a ruby-studded gold hilt, 
and is guaranteed to pierce even the 
strongest armor. sure to be an heirloom 
for generations to come!") 

3) A wand of wonder ("Yes, this wand 
can do anything, and usuallv will. Created 
by the arch-mage Xagig the Mad. and 
wielded by some of the greatest adven 
turers in the Wild Coast.") 

4) A sword +5, defender ("You'll have 
hours of fun with this superbly crafted 
long sword, one of the heirlooms of the 
House of Baddikis, of Flotsom Island, 
this sword has slain everything from de 
mons to roes and mueh more, and is still 
in flawless condition. Yours courtesy of 


'Steal A Fortune' ") 

5) A sdmitar of speed, +3 ("You'll 
never believe how fast this sword can 
strike until you try it. Newly forged from 
the fumaces of Ket, this mastercrafted 
Steel blade is made for the disceming 
slayer of monsters.") 

6) A random monster from the Random 
Monster Generator appears and attacks. 

All items must be handed over to Jack 
Shade-pat before the trade takes place. 
They vanish instantly and cannot be re 
covered. 

Game #4: "Doorway." There are three 
doors. One door is the only access (from 
this level) to the lOth level. The other 
two doors contain random monsters. 
There are seven key s, each with a gem- 
studded handle. They have to guess at 
the value of each gem, within 10% of its 
price, without going over. If they guess 
correctly, then they get to keep the key 
and try it in the door to the next level. If 
they guess incorrectly, then Zanna will 
try to see if the key unlocks either of the 
doors that contain the random monsters. 
Characters with the jeweler's secondarv 
skili may make an Intelligence Check to 
determine their value. Obviously, four of 
the keys are duds; they don't fit any of 
the locks. (Note to the DM: Prices are 
based on those given in the DMG\ if your 
campaign uses a different economic sys 
tem, then change the prices accordingly.) 



True 


Gem 

Value 

Unlocks 

1) Diamond 

5,221 gp 

Nothing 

2) Emerald 

1,050 gp 

Monster 

3) Amethyst 

108 gp 

lOth Level 

4) Ruby 

5,315 gp 

Nothing 

5) Sapphire 

1,000 gp 

Nothing 

6) Malachite 

11 gP 

Monster 

7) Black Pearl 

531 gp 

Nothing 


If the characters fail to get to the exit 
this time, then, there is the "Big Steal." 
Two characters are eligible; the charac 
ter must trade any prize they have won 
(those who have been attacked by mon 
sters are also eligible) to become eligible 
for the Grand Prize. They get to choose 
either what's behind Tapestry #1, Tapes- 
try #2. or Tapestry #3. 


95 







Tapestry #1: The party may proceed to 
the next level, ("Where you are in for lus- 
cious pleasures and spinetingling de- 
lights!") 

Tapestry H2: The character gets a helm 
of brilliance and p/ate mail of ethereal- 
ness. 

Tapestry #3: (If the characters leave 
through the secret door behind Tapestry 
#1, they will not be subject to this 
"prize," even if they choose Tapestry' 
H 3.) The characters win an all expenses 
paid (one-way) trip to the Ninth Plane of 
Hell! ("Where after a wild trip courtesy 
of Plane Shift Spell-Lines, you will stay (if 
you're lucky) for 13 unforgettable nights 
at the Asmodeus Interdimensional Grand 
Hotel, to have the hottest time of your 
life, and be served with style by Pit 
Fiends! The Asmodeus Interdimen 
sional, in the heart of Nessus, one of the 
most exotic places now!" (*poof*. char 
acters disappear to Asmodeus's plane). 

If the characters are unfortunate 
enough to end up in Nessus, you can ei- 
ther play it out (if you think you're ready 
for the challenge) or you can have Asmo 


deus appear, and offer to let them go in 
exchange for future favors. He will agree 
not to ask anything that will violate their 
beliefs (perhaps a demon lord has been 
bothering Asmodeus's servants, or one 
of his rival devils has a troublesome fol- 
lower somewhere in Greyhawk w'hom he 
wants removed); use this as a platform to 
future adventures. 

If the characters enter this room after 
the game show is over, they will find it 
empty. If they search carefully enough, 
they will find a wizard locked secret door 
(at 25th level) leading to the next level. 

Area 5: Room of Greed 

This oddly shaped room is empty, ex- 
cept for two doors on the wall. As soon as 
someone enters this room, a voice savs: 
"You have done well to come. You have a 
choice. Behind the left-hand door is a hor 
rible monster, one which must be slain, or 
it will destroy all goodness. Behind the 
right-hand door is incredible riches. You 
may only enter one door. Make your 
choice." 


The monster the characters must face 
is Greed. The two doors lead to the same 
room (5A); those who enter through the 
left-hand door will perceive those who 
entered by the right-hand door as horri- 
bly evil monsters. Those who enter 
through the right-hand door will see 
those who entered via the left-hand door 
as greedy monsters out to steal their 
wealth. In the room is 200.000 gold 
pieces, completely covering the floor, 
and making all combat at -2 to attacks 
due to unsteady footing. Under the gold 
are three decks of rnany things. When 
one group of characters is victorious, the 
illusions wnll vanish, and the party will see 
their opposition for what it really was. 

DM Note: If the characters split up, it's 
going to be easy for the players to figure 
out what's going on. Some players won't 
use this knowledge to their ad vantage. 
Others will. If you can get a second DM, 
and have a DM run each party from a sep 
arate room (use notes or run out and hold 
conferences to coordinate the ac 
tions), this will make it more of a chal 
lenge for the characters. 



96 

















Area 6: Room of Mercy 

The door to this room is wizard locked 
(25th level), and is marked with glyphs 
saying: "Ancient Darkness Imprisoned- 
Let It Rest Longer Yet." If the door is 
touched, a glyph of warding will be trig- 
gered that causes 50 points of electrical 
damage (save vs. spell for half damage). 
Upon entry, they will find that the room is 
barren and featureless, save for ancient 
dust. which heavily coats the floor. The 
air is incredibly musty, like a tomb after 
the stench of death has faded; all that is 
left is antiquity. 

If the characters try, they will find that 
neither light nor darkness spells will 
chase away the shadows of this room 
(i.e., the lighting of the room cannot be 
changed). In the center of the room, levi- 
tating in mid-air, apparently untouched by 
dust, is a three-inch-square black cube, 
apparently made from malachite. 

As soon as the characters step into the 
room, they should make Intelligence 
Checks, at a -4 penalty. If the check is 
made, then the character will hear a faint 
whisper, in an archaic dialect: "Who are 
you? Where are you? What are you? Why 
are you? Who am I? Where am I? What 
am I? Why am I?" The whispers repeat 
the same words endlessly, sometimes in 
the same language, other times in a lan 
guage that is completely unknown (un- 
less the characters are proficient in Old 
Suloise). 

The cube is the prison for Zol 
Darklock, a Power of Shadow, a high 
level shade magic-user/fighter. If dispel 
magic is successfully cast against the 
cube (treat it as 23d-level magic), then 
the entity will be released. 


Zol Darklock (Shade Prince): AC -6; 
MV 12"; FTR 16/M-U 16; hp 180 (160 in 
normal light); #AT 2; Dmg ld8 + 10; 
THACO 2 +; ST 18(00) IN 17 WS11 DX 
19 CN 17 CH 15 CM 15; SA shadow 
walk ; SD shadow images; MR 80%; AL 
N. Zol is protected by a s tone skin spell 
and has bracers of de fense AC 2, ring of 
protection +3, cloak of displaceme nt, 
sword of shadows +4 (sword drains one 
full point of Strengt?) on a natural roil of 
17-20), ring of shadowy light (20' radius) 
wand of force, winged boots (15", 
MC:A) He knows the following spells: 

Level 1: magic missile. feather fal], 
hold portal, mount, shield 
Level 2: ESP, knock, ray of enfeeble- 
ment, vocalize, web 
Level 3: detect illusion, dispel magic 
(x3), haste 

Level 4: dimension door, Sre shield, ice 
storm, polymorph self, stoneskin 
Level 5: cone ofcold, feeblemind, hold 
monster, passwall. telekinesis 
Level 6: death spell, legend lore, pro- 
ject image 

Level 7; power word: stun, teleport 
w/o error 
Level 8: binding 

Zol was a shadow prince who also lived 
for a time as a noble of the Suloise Em 
pire. He was trying to investigate a ru 
mor about Xodast, an Suel arch-mage 
who experimented with powers that 
most said were better left undisturbed. 
Xodast, it was said, had created the 
Bringer of Doom. an artifact that later 
played some part in the Invoked Devasta- 
tion that destroyed the Suel (which would 
not occur for two centuries after Zol's im- 
prisonment.) Xodast imprisoned Zol in 
"The Darkness That Holds All Shadows" 
(the cube), which was found shortly after 
the Devastation by a group of adventur 
ers exploring the ruins of the Suel city 
Suendrako. The cube eventually came 
into the hånds of the master of the 
dungeon, who placed it in an appropriate 
place. 


If Zol is released, he will be berserk 
with rage, thinking the PCs are responsi- 
ble for his imprisonment. He will shout 
words in Suloise ("Death to the friends of 
darkness!") and attack. Each round, Zol 
should make a Wisdom Check. If the roll 
succeeds, he will realize that these aren't 
Xodast's minions and stop fighting. If he 
is attacked by magic of an evil nature 
(i.e., death spells, disintegrate, or with- 
ering) or a subversive nature ( command, 
charm), he will continue fighting. 

Zol is in an unstable mental State fol- 
lowing his imprisonment. Even if he 
calms down, any sudden shocks could 
drive him berserk again. If Zol stole any 
points of Strength during the fight, he will 
apologize and shrug his shoulders, stat- 
ing, "Life and shadowhood is not always 
pleasant." Zol is willing to discuss all that 
happened to him, but will not join the 
party: he will retire for a millennium or so 
to his fortress in Shadow, if his sister 
hasn't already destroyed it with her ex- 
travagant parties. 

Under the dust in the floor is a secret 
panel that contains a ladder descending 
into pitch darkness. An inscription in the 
floor says, "To the 13th level." It is really 
a never-ending ladder; once anyone has 
stepped onto it, they can only get off by 
skipping into another plane, such as with 
a plane shift spell. 

Area 7: Room of Time 

The door to this room is copper, 
stained green from age. This door is not 
trapped, but feels warm (about human 
body temperature), and appears to have 
a heartbeat. When the door is touched, a 
magic mouth appears, saying, "Haste is 
waste," and then the heartbeat fades and 
the door cools. 

When the door is opened, the charac 
ters will gaze into a room that is empty. 
except for a leetem on which a huge tome 
rests, and a strange arcane device hang- 
ing on the wall. The device resembles a 
drcle with 12 numbers on its edge and 
two thin arrows of unequal iength point- 
ing at the numbers. The arrows are mov- 
ing around the drcle quite rapidly. The 
room is as silent as it is deserted. 


97 








However the characters choose to en- 
ter the room, the doors will not close; 
they will be left open to the outside 
world. As soon as the characters enter 
the room, they will notice the longer ar 
ro w does not appear to be moving at all. 
They will also hear a loud "tick-tock" 
noise that should have been audible out 
side the room. 

In actuality, this room is a time trap; 
time here moves very slowly compared 
to that in the outside world. One round in 
this room equals a half hour outside it. 
The tome is Seerets of Immortaiity by X. 
Gig, Magus Paragon, Regum Rex, etc., 
etc. The book is tied to the leetem by 
strange silver threads, as thin as gossa 
mer. These are strands from Istus's web 
in the plane of Time. They cannot be bro- 
ken by any force save Istus herself. Nor 
can any force move or break the leetem. 

Secrets of Immortaiity' is readable (al- 
though highly technical in its use of lan 
guage), but it is incomprehensible to all 
creatures with Intelligences below 21. 
For magic-users who have Intelligences 
of 21 who would read it, it would take 10 
years of careful study to understand its 
principles. (A nonweapon proficiency 
taken in the study of the abstract theories 
of magic will reduce the time of study to 
only three years.) If the book is mas 
tered, characters will know how to create 
an eUxir of youth, become a shade or a 
lich, and understand "general principles 
of life force extension." 

The nastiest feature of this room is that 
the time delav between inside and out 
side will allow random monsters to ap 
pear on the two teleportals outside, and 
they will immediately rush into the room 
and attack. The longer the characters re- 
main inside, the more monsters will at 
tack them. 

The clock, which is three feet in diame 
ter, is worth 2,000 gp if resold, although 
technology is shunned by most buyers in 
the Flanaess, who consider these de- 
vices to be strange and therefore evil. 
Certain high-level plane-wanderers who 
do not share this phobia will be glad to 
buy it. 


Area 8: Room of Travel 

On the wall outside this room is a set of 
strange runes. If a read magic spell is 
used on them, the character can read 
them. They say, "Beyond the wall is a 
place of challenge, a trial of mind, body, 
and spirit. It is a place of great peril. Let 
only the bravest and most able meet the 
challenge. To get to this realm, you must 
pass through the wall." 

The wall is quite sold. If a character 
tries to walk through the wall, he will get 
nowhere. If he tries to walk through the 
Border Ethereal, he will be thrown back, 
stunned for ld3 rounds. The only means 
to get through this wall is a passwall spell. 

Once the passwall is used, the area will 
shine with a glorious b!ue light. The 
passwall creates a 10'-b>-10' room. At 
the far end is a curtain of sizzling energy. 
When the characters enter, a voice will 
say, "This is the room of transport. To 
get to the surface, you must say, 
'There's no place like there' as you walk 
through the curtain. If you wish to go far 
ther on, into the place of trials, you must 
say, 'There's no place like where.' From 
either of those places, you may return 
here by casting the passwall spell at the 
place where you materialize, and then 
saying, 'There's no place like here'." 

The surface exit is close to the en- 
trance to the Castle and is easily marked. 
The exit in "The place of trials" is one of 
the wall areas of the Limbo Arena. 

Area 9: Limbo Arena 

Upon entry into this room, the charac 
ters will find themselves in a huge arena. 
The ceiling is 100 feet high; the room is 
very well lit by magical lights and spells. 
There are stairways leading to bieachers, 
where a few characters and creatures of 
great power are watching. Two men 
wearing loose clothing are currently 
wrestling. 

Suddenly, a grey frog-like creature, six 
feet tall, who appears to be officiating the 
contest, rises from his chair, and raises 
his arm. Everyone's attention focuses on 
the characters. The frog-thing addresses 
them. 


"I am B'sot Ramm, Viceroy of the 
mighty Slaad Master Zgotar, Dread of 
Limbo. It is unusual for that entrance 
to be used, but we are instructed to 
greet all who come here with hospital- 
ity. Welcome to our games, humanics, 
if that term does not offend." 

He croaks and continues: "This 
place was created by the master of 
your dungeon and cursed. We hold 
these games to keep the monsters of 
your dungeon at bay, and also to test 
our skiil. It is the law of this place that 
all who enter here must engage in at 
least one contest before they are per- 
mitted to leave. It is a law that even 
the slaad find necessary to enforce, as 
repugnant as it is to us. The contest 
need not be lethal; there are many 
ways to compete. You are free to en 
gage in any contest you desire, to 
challenge and to be challenged. If you 
choose lethal competitions, the slaad 
will take all property of the losers, un- 
less you make arrangements with 
your competitors to the contrary. Fur- 
thermore, we are your hosts. To at 
tack others, except in the arena, is a 
deadly crime. If any creature attacks 
us, you will defend your hosts." He 
then motions to the wrestlers to re 
sume. 


This room is designed to test a charac 
ter's competitive spirit. The arena is ad- 
jacent to a portion of Limbo ruled by a 
powerful Death Slaad, Zgotar. Originally, 
random monsters generated by the Ran 
dom Monster Generator were jumping 
through a portal to Limbo. To prevent his 
realm from being overcome by even 
more chaos than it already endured 
(some types of chaos are more desirable 
than others to slaad), Zgotar sealed off 
Limbo from the area, and built an arena 
around it. He then invited some of the 
most powerful combatants in the multi- 
verse to come to his arena to test their 
skilis against the random monsters and, if 
they desire, each other. 

Zgotar pays 500 gp per monster slain in 
the arena, a mere pittance, but most of 
the characters who come to the arena are 








so rich that they don't care about money. 
Zgotar, who wishes to become the third 
great slaad, has used the arena to expand 
his contacts with high-level beings. In 
this way, he has made many allies and 
useful acquaintances. 

All guests of Zgotar are served by red 
slaad. In areas behind the arena, there 
are barracks where the guests can rest. 
These barracks are secluded, blocked by 
force walls with alarm spells triggered 
when they are dispelled; characters may 
not go into their opponent's barracks, but 
may leave their rooms at any time by ask- 
ing the slaad. If the player characters ac 
cept the hospitality of Zgotar, they will be 
staying with other guests: the wrestler 
Jak Briddon. the archer Hasophel, the 
fallen paladin Percival, and the poly- 
morphed red dragon, Fearforge. 

The characters will soon realize that 
there is more than one gate to this place. 
If the characters mention the dungeon 
from which they came, Fearforge. who is 
disguised as a human female magic-user, 
will be very interested, and try to find out 
everything she can about the Random 
Monster Generator. (She is currently 
working for a group of adventurers, in the 
service of Demogorgon, who call them 
selves the Colossus of Chaos.) 

If the characters try to follow the slaad, 
they will find that there is a secret exist 
that leads to a portal into Limbo, in the 
heart of Zgotar's realm. 

In the arena, there are a number of dif- 
ferent contests that can be run. Charac 
ters may fight the random monsters, 
challenge each other to insult duels or rid- 
dling contests. wrestle, dance, debate 
various important issues of the multi- 
verse, argue about whose religion is bet- 
ter, etc. The possibilities are endless. 
Here are a few of them: 

Wrestling: Currently, a wrestling 
toumament is taking place. Here is a sim 
ple but fairly comprehensive system for 
running these events. 

There are two types of wrestling in the 
toumament: wrestling involving mostly 
strength (modern day Graeco-Roman 
wrestling, Sumo, etc.), which is referred 
to as strength wrestling, and there is 
wrestling involving strength and speed 


(such as modem day freestyle wrestling, 
or judo), which is referred to as dexterity 
wrestling. Each contest has its own for- 
mula: 

Strength Wrestling Rating = Strength + 
(Level x 2) 

Dexterity Wrestling Rating = Strength 
+ Dexterity + (Level x 2) 

If a character is a monk or barbarian, he 
is treated as if he had twice as many 
levels (a lOth-level monk is 20th level for 
the purposes of wrestling). A magic-user 
or cavalier is treated as if he had half his 
levels (a lOth-level magic-user is 5th 
level for purposes of wrestling). If your 
campaign uses nonweapon proficiencies, 
then characters with a wrestling profi- 
ciency are considered to be three levels 
higher when figuring out their wrestling 
ratings. 

There are five fighting positions in 
wrestling: Nearfall Disadvantage (NFD): 
where the wrestler is about to be pinned; 
Disadvantaged (DIS), where a wrestler 
is at a serious disadvantage: Neutral 
(NEU) where neither competitor has a 
disadvantage: Advantage (ADV) where 
the wrestler has an advantage over an op 
ponent; and Nearfall (NRF) where the 
wrestler is on the verge of winning. 

The match begins with both contest- 
ants in the Neutral position. Each impulse 
of the match consists of each wrestler 
rolling ldl2 and adding the result to his 
wrestling rating. Highest total wins the 
impulse. The winner moves to the next 
most advantageous position and the loser 
moves to the next lower position. In 
other words, the winner of the first im 
pulse is at the Advantage position while 
the loser moves to the Disadvantage po 
sition. Then the players roli again. 

If one wrestler is already in the Nearfall 
position and he wins the next impulse, he 
pins his opponent and the match is over. 

If you wish for a more realistic and in- 
teresting system, you can have wrestlers 
take penalties to their rolis in order to try 
to improve their lot by more than one po 
sition in an impulse (e.g.. a wrestler who 
has an Advantage tries to throw his oppo 


nent into a quick pin, or a wrestler who is 
in a Nearfall Disadvantage tries to get 
back to a Neutral position.) The modifiers 
are found on the following chart: 


NFD 

NFD 

X 

DIS 

X 

NEU 

X 

ADV 

X 

NRF 

X 

DIS 

0 

X 

X 

X 

X 

NEU 

-4 

0 

X 

X 

X 

ADV 

-8 

-4 

0 

X 

X 

NRF 

-12 

-8 

-4 

X 

X 

PIN 

-16 

-12 

-8 

-4 

0 


The horizontal axis indicates the c ur- 
rent predicament, the vertical axis indi 
cates the desired position. Thus a 
wrestler who is at a Disadvantage (sec- 
ond column from the left) who wishes to 
reverse the situation and put his oppo 
nent in a Near Fail gets a -8 penalty to 
his roil. If he wins, he succeeds. If he 
fails, he'Il be put into a Near Fail Disad 
vantage. 

Currently the top wrestlers in the 
arena are the following: 

Bergh (half-orc): AC -1; FTR 11; hp 
69; #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8+4; STR 18(62) 
DEX 15; AL LE; plate mad +2, +1 
sword of wounding. Bergh is from the 
Flanaess and is rumored to be associated 
with the infamous Lord Robilar (the ru 
mors are false). He is the son of a rene 
gade lord from the Bandit Kingdoms, 
who found a portal to the arena in the 
Kron Hilis. Bergh is extremely sullen; he 
will not willingly talk to anyone, nor will 
he wager on his matches, nor will he is- 
sue challenges. 

Kayden (human): AC 2; FTR 15; hp 
103: >AT 2; Dmg ldlO +12; THACO 2; 
STR 19 DEX 19; Special powers: im 
mune to hold, sleep, and slow, heal (1/ 
week); AL CN; leather armor +2, 
two-handed sword +2. Kayden is also 
from the Flanaess, from Lendore Island; 
he is actually one of the many sons of the 
Suel deity Kord. Kayden has been un- 
beatable so far, and does not believe any 
mortal can defeat him. If he is pinned, he 
will fly into a rage and immediately chal 
lenge the character to an unarmed com- 
bat fight to the death. Kayden is not 
interested in power or wealth. his exist- 
ence on Lendore Island is a simple one. 


99 









Jak Briddon (human): AC -3; FTR13; 
hp 78; t AT 2; Dmg ld8 + 5; THACO 5; 
STR 18 DEX 17; AL C(G); plate mail 
+2, long sword +3 . Briddon is not from 
the Flanaess, he comes from a world 
called Arra. He will challenge any 
doughty fighter to a contest, wagering 
large sums of money (20,000 gp-he is 
very rich). He is very boastful. but other- 
wise he will be friendly. However, to en- 
sure the success of a private wager, a 
member of the Colossus of Chaos will 
place a tasteless drug in the competing 
character s drink that will rob him of 2 
points of Strength and Dexterity. If Brid 
don is accused of cheating, he will chal 
lenge the character to a duel with 
weapons to defend his honor. 

Archery: This is a toumament with 
firee choice of the bows provided, except 
crossbows. The targets are mounted on 
pendulums, which are swung rapidly, in 
order to make the challenge more diffi- 
cult. Each contestant fires a dozen shots, 
sut from medium range and six from long 
range, with nonmagical bows and arrows 
provided by the generous slaad. The 
character then calculates what the lowest 
Armor Class that his shot could hit; the 
location of the shot is based on the Armor 
Class value. Then the character calcu 
lates the number of points for the shot, 
and after 12 shots, the most points wins. 
The amount of points is based on what 
color of the target he hit. 

The bullseye is gold, AC -8, and is 
worth 9 pts. Then there is red, AC -4, 
worth 7 pts; blue, AC 0, worth 5 pts.; 
black, AC 4, worth 3 pts; and white, AC 
8, worth 1 pt. (e.g., If a character's shot 
rolis hits AC -3, that shot lands in the 
blue; if he had rolied enough to hit AC 
-4, the shot would have hit in the red). 

There are two top archers in the arena 
at this time: 

Hasophel (elf): AC - 1; FTR 10; hp 54; 
#AT 3/2; Dmg ld8+2; THACO 10 (8 w/ 
bows); STR 11 DEX 18; AL CG; Weapon 
specialization in long bow, elfin chain +2, 
long sword+2. Hasophel is originally 
from Celene, but she decided that she 
wanted to travel, so she left that king- 
dom. and eventually ended up in the 
arena of Zgotar. She does not care about 


money or glory, she just likes shooting ar 
rows. She is friendly with elves and half- 
elves, but cool to everyone else. 

Ialko (human): AC 6; RNG 8: hp 41; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8+3; THACO 14 (11 w/ 
bows); STR 11 DEX 18; AL NG: Wfeapon 
specialization in long bow. Ialko is also 
from Arra; he is a good friend of Jak Brid 
don and will serve as his second in duels. 
Ialko likes to talk a lot about the multi- 
verse, but will say little about his home, 
which appears to be dominated by great 
evil. 

Combat: There are a number of po 
tential adversaries in the arena who are 
willing to engage in duels of a fiercer vari- 
ety. Two of these combatants fight one- 
on-one contests, the rest, such as the 
Colossus of Chaos, fight as groups. 

Lan-wing (monk of the Scarlet Broth- 
erhood, human): AC -4: MV 29"; MNK 
15; hp 66; MT 3; Dmg 6d4; THACO 
12 + ; ST 15 IN 16 WS 15 DX 17 CN 16 
CH 15; SA stun, kill, quivering palm; SD 
immune to poison, disease, slow, geas, 
quest, dodge missiles, heal self (ld4 + 10 
hp. 1/day); AL LE. He has a ring ofpro- 
tection +3. Lan-wing is one of the most 
prominent members of the Scarlet Broth- 
erhood; he is stoic, ruthless, and cun- 
ning. He is here to observe; here, 
everyone and everything is his enemy. 
He is particularly disturbed by the Colos 
sus of Chaos; if he feels they are too pow- 
erful, he will offer to ally with the 
characters to kill the Chaos Group in the 
arena. 

Lord Percival (ex-paladin. human): AC 
- 5; MV 6"; DAV 15; hp 81; MT 2; Dmg 
ld8 + 9; THACO 2; ST 18(88), IN 14. W1 
13, DE 16 CO 16 CH 18; SD regenerates 
2 hp/round (cannot regenerate from 
death, but regenerates fire and acid dam 
age); AL LG. He has fullplate armor +2, 
shield +3, long sword +5, gloves of mis 
sile snaring. ring of free action, ring of 
protection +2. Percival served on one of 
the most prestigious Orders of Knight- 
hood, the Order of the Golden Lion, 
which protected the Wild Coast from in- 
truders (especially from the Pomarj). He 
was a paragon of paladinhood, well re- 
spected, receiving many honors. 

One day, a woman came to him, asking 


for help, and he swore a sacred Oath to 
protect her from harm. She died-orc 
snipers shot her full of arrows while she 
was in his protection. Percival was so 
grief stricken that he renounced his pala 
dinhood and quit the Order. Life was un- 
bearable for him; in time, he lived for one 
thing-an honorable death in combat. 
Hearing of the slaad's arena, he decided 
to go there and fight until he dies, since 
his honor is already dead. He appears to 
be a "Black Knight." a knight without a 
shield device. 

If any obviously high-ieve! fighter tries 
to talk with him, he will immediately chal 
lenge him to combat. pretending to be of- 
fended by the pretense of comradeship, 
in the hopes of being slain in an honorable 
fashion. If Percival finds himself winning 
such a contest, he will beg the opponent 
to accept his mercy and let him spare him 
(unless the opponent has shown himself 
to be evil). If the characters accept his 
mercy and talk with him later, or if they 
talk to other competitors beforehand Gak 
Briddon knows his story), the characters 
might be able to help him. 

The Colossus of Chaos consists of five 
evils: the cambion Drumorg, son of De- 
mogorgon, the death knight Duke Grave, 
and his steed. a retriever, the lich Rahz 
(currently polymorphed into human 
form), and the dragon Fearforge (also po 
lymorphed as a human). 

The Colossus is in the arena to find the 
link to the dungeon, where they are to 
get the Random Monster Generator for 
their master, Demogorgon. If Fearforge 
finds out where the PCs are from, she 
will tell the others, and Drumorg will is- 
sue a challenge, "Meet us in the arena, or 
bow before us and acknowledge that our 
way is the strongest force in existence: 
freedom without discipline, power with 
out restraint, the whims of the mighty be 
ing appeased without moral limits." 

Drumorg (cambion): AC -5; MV 15"; 
HD 16; hp 110; MT 2; Dmg 
ld8 + 12(x2); THACO 2; ST 19 IN 16 WS 
18 DX 17 CN 16 CH 17; SA spells (16th- 
level cleric), levitate, cause fear (touch), 
detect magic, polymorph self. SD +1 or 
better weapon to hit; MR 40%; AL CE; 
XP 8,700. He has studded leather +1, 


100 










long s word + 5, ring o f vaapiric regener 
ation, ring offree action, brooch of shield- 
ing. 

Level 1: command (x3), cure ligbt 
wounds (x2), detect evil, preripitation, 
resist cold*, sanctuary 
Level 2: aid (x3), hold person (x3), 
messenger, silence (15' radius) 

Level 3: animate dead, curse, death 's 
door, dispel magic (x3), locate object, 
prayer* 

Level 4: cure serious wounds (x2), 
protection tom good (10' radius)*, spe// 
immunitv (lightning bolt)*, spike stones 
Level 5: cure critical wounds (x2), dis 
pel good, plane shit, true seeing* 

Level 6: harm, heal, word of recall 
Level 7: unholy word 

Fearforge (ancient huge red dragon): 
AC -1: MV 9'724" (D); HD 11; hp 88; 
#AT 3; Dmg Id8/ld8/3dl0; THACO 10; 
SA breath weapon. spells. aura; SD 
saves as 22-HD monster; AL CE: XP 
7,778 

Level 1: reduce, shield * 

Level 2: stinking cloud, web 
Level 3: dispel magic (x2) 

Level 4: dimension door, polvmorph 
self 

Duke Grave (death knight): AC -0; 
MV 12"; HD 9; hp 90; #AT 1; Dmg 
ldlO+8; THACO 7; SA /ear(5' radius). 
detect magic. detect invisibility, wall of 
ice, dispel magic (2x dav), gate (Types I, 
20%; n, 25%; III. 30%; IV. 20%; VI (5% 
chance of success); power word (any, 1/ 
day), symbol of pain or fear (1/day), 20d6 
hreball (1/day); AL CE; XP 5,140. He 
has a sword oflife stealing +2. 

Retriever: AC 2; MV 18"; HD 10; hp 
58; #AT4; Dmg3d6(x4): THACO 10; SA 
rays of cold, fire, lightning, transmutation 
(mud, stone, gold or lead); XP 5,888 
Rahz (20th-level lich): AC 0; MV 6"; 
HD 11; hp 69: #AT 1; Dmg ldlO; 
THACO 10; SA paralyze ; SD +1 or bet- 
ter weapon to hit, immune to charm, 
sleep, cold, electricity. insanity. death 
spells; AL CE; XP 11,604 
Level 1: light, magic missile. push, 
sleep, taunt 

Level 2: continual light, detect evil. 


ESP, levitate, shatter 
Level 3: blink, dispel magic, hold per 
son, lightning bolt, slow 
Level 4: confusion, dimension door, ice 
storm, polymorph self*, stoneskin* 
Level 5: avoidance, cloudkill, cone of 
cold, passwall, wall of ton 
Level 6: death spell. disintegrate, 
globe of invulnerability*, repulsion 
Level 7: reverse gravity, teleport w/o 
error, volley 

Level 8: maze, power word: blind, 
symbol 

Level 9: Bigby's crushing hånd, shape 
change 

The strateg^' of the Colossus is to kiil 
enemy clerics first (to prevent the dis- 
guised Rahz from being tumed) while dis- 
rupting any attempts to cast spells. They 
want to kill the party, except for one 
member. whom they will threaten to kill, 
unless they are told exactly how to enter 
the dungeon of the Random Monster 
Generator. 


If the party tried to help Percival out of 
his depression (talked to him, gave con- 
vincing arguments why he is important) 
and if the party looks to be in serious 
trouble in this battie, Percival will shout a 
battlecry: "Evil shall not prevail!" and 
leap into the battie, attacking the Colos 
sus. He will have come to realize that he 
cannot shirk duty because he failed; fail- 
ure is no reason to lose one's pala- 
dinhood. Nor do the gods feel that way; 
his paiadin powers will be restored. 

If the Colossus is losing badly, they will 
either be cut down, or members will open 
a portal or plane shtt to the Abyss. If the 
Colossus wins, and they are given the 
route into dungeon, they will spit on the 
last surviving party member, leave him in 
the dust, and depart. The Colossus will 
explore some of the upper levels first, 
giving the PCs a chance to race them for 
the bottom (if you choose to further in- 
volve them. Otherwise, they won't ap- 
pear again in this adventure.). 



101 








Level io: f Luf fy qoes 
own the ORain 



to Level 9 to Level 11 

Greyhawk Dungeon-Level 10 

KOH Secret Door 

Pool 

[ O | 3' Drains 

Scale: 1 Square = 10 Feet 


This is an adventure for four to six 
characters of 19th to 20th level. A good 
mix of character classes is recommended 
but not necessary. Animal lovers and 
those without an aversion to getting their 
feet wet should do quite well. 

The Adventure 

Party Time 

Our story opens at the Herzog's tower 
on the mom of a very special day. On this 
day, 20 years ago. a brave band of tour- 
ists held o ff an army of invading Dirtballs 
by tossing water-filled sheep bladders 
from the castle parapets. Their heroic 
action not only saved the owner a huge 
cleaning biil, but it gave the castle an ex- 
cuse to hold another annual party. Thus, 


in honor of the event, a magnificent feast 
and masquerade ball has been planned for 
the evening. 

The PCs, having been guests at the 
castle for a few day s now, all receive 
beautifully engraved invitations to the 
night's festivities. Being guests of honor, 
they are naturally expected to attend. Al- 
low them to spend the moming in prepa- 
ration for the party. They may have their 
hair done at the stylish Castle Salon 
("Bowl Cuts Are Our Specialty'') and 
perhaps while there, partake of a mani 
cure. The manicurist's name is Suzette 
and she is said to be a whiz with file and 
emery board. 

A small gift for the host to show their 
appreciation would be in order, and of 
course the Castle Gift Shoppe stocks the 
finest in silver cheese slicers, potato 


wedgers, and nut picks. Perfect gifts for 
a formal occasion. 

Then there is the matter of the dress 
for the masquerade. The Castle Boutique 
has set up a special section of costumes 
for rent, just for the big event. Here the 
PCs can choose to be big bad pirates or 
fuzzy little lambs. Almost any costume 
the characters can imagine is available for 
rent, but of course the range of sizes is 
very limited. 

It seems that wherever the characters 
wander on this beautiful moming, THE 
topic of conversation is the upcoming 
party. 

In the aftemoon the PCs have been in- 
vited to participate in a charity croquet 
match hosted by the Herzog in the Castle 
Gardens. Dress is informal but should be 
tasteful. The grueling match, between 


102 












the PCs and the Castle serving wenches, 
goes neck and neck until the final crack of 
the mallet when the group manages to 
snatch victory from the jaws of defeat 
with a well-placed ball. All in all an excit- 
ing game! 


Returning to your rooms. sweaty and 
sore from a hard round of croquet, 
thoughts of tonight's banquet and 
masked ball swirl in your head. You 
draw your bath and add just a touch of 
persimmon-scented bath salts and be- 
gin to ponder your choice of costume. 
Perhaps a cute bunny, or a dainty fairy 
princess. Maybe something unique 
like a bowl of fruit or a rock. As you 
immerse your big toe in the sudsy liq- 
uid to test the temperature, a sudden 
high-pitched scream shatters your 
revene. Grabbing a puce towel embla- 
zoned with pink seahorses (compli- 
ments of the house) you rush into the 
hallway and the source of the distur- 
bance. 


A Mystery in the Hallway 

Outside their rooms the PCs en- 
counter a 10-year-old blond, blue-eyed 
giri standing in the middle of the hall 
screaming for help. She is wearing a frilly 
light blue party dress streaked with some 
kind of green scum. Pinned to the front of 
the dress is a damp paper name tag read- 
ing "Hi! I'm Penny! Who Are You?" Her 
once-pretty face is bright red and 
streaked with tears and she is yelling 
something about dogs and drains. Be- 
cause of her hysteria, her words are very 
incoherent. If the characters can calm her 
down enough to question her, perhaps 
with offers of assistance, she will relate 
the following story in a halting, sobbing 
voice: 

Penny's Story 


My name's Penny and l'm in the Dam- 
selettes and I got to come here with 12 
other giris and stay for two days 


'cause we sold the most cookies in our 
cookie sale and I even sold two boxes 
to that mean oid Mr. Crotchet who 
lives down the Street and hates kids. 
And my Daddy, he's the mayor, not 
here, back where I live, he said if I 
could be a big giri 1 could go, as long as 
I minded Miss McGillicutty, she's our 
leader, and 1 even got to bring Fluffy 
'cause she's sorta our mascot and 
she's my dog and 1 didn't want to leave 
her at home 'cause 1 don't think Cook 
likes her and probably pulis her tail 
when I'm not around. Well we were 
playing a game of "Kill the Orcs" in 
Miss McGillicutty's room and she told 
us to go to our rooms and get ready for 
the party tonight 'cause she had a lot 
to do but as we were leaving I saw her 
lay down on her bed with a bag of ice 
on her head so I think she really 
wanted to get rid of us so she could 
take a nap. She does that a lot. So then 
! took my bath and combed my hair 
and put my dress on and then I saw 
Fluffy looking at me real sad, like she 
wanted to be cleaned up pretty too. 
Well, I 'membered my daddy telling 
me that dogs weren't supposed to 
take baths in people bathtubs, I 'mem 
bered 'cause I got spanked for it once, 
and then I 'membered that old pond 
with the statue we seen out in back so 
1 grabbed Fluffy and her brush and a 
towel and soap and a ribbon and took 
her there to give her a bath. Well 1 put 
Fluffy in the pond and she was pad- 
dling around and having a good time 
'cause she likes water and I was get- 
ting ready to wash her 'cause the wa 
ter was kind of scummy when 
suddenly that ugly statue started mov- 
ing and reached into the water and 
pulled up a big chain on a big plug and 
before 1 could move. Fluffy and all the 
water drained out down a big hole in 
the bottom of the pool. And then 1 
started yelling at that statue and told it 
to bring Fluffy back but it just stood 
there looking stupid and I WANT MY 
FLUFFFFY!!!!! Waaaaahhhh!!!!! 


The Dog-Gone Pool 

Once the characters have pledged to 
help Penny she will lead them to the scene 
of the crime at the back of the tower. The 
bowl-shaped stone pool is 12 feet in diame 
ter and sunk about three feet into the 
ground. The sloping sides of the pool are 
covered with slimy green algae and there is 
a three-foot-diameter hole in the center. A 
rank odor of sweat and unwashed bodies 
seems to emanate from the hole. Whatever 
water was once in the pool has drained out. 


A two-foot-wide rim composed of grey 
paving stones circles the outside cir- 
cumference of the pool. Standing on 
the rim is a nine-foot-tall man-like 
stone statue holding a length of chain 
attached to a three-foot-diameter, 
one-foot-thick stone plug. 


The statue is actually a stone golem. 
The stone golem was a present to the 
Herzog from one of his guests, a very odd 
but powerful magic-user. the visiting 
mage so admired the pool that he wanted 
to insure that it would always remain in 
good condition. Thus the stone golem 
was given a few simple commands by its 
creator including: "periodically drain and 
fil] the pool" (which it is now in the proc- 
ess of doing) and "repel anyone who 
might pose a threat to the completion of 
your duties." Fluffy just happened to be 
unlucky enough to be in the pool at the 
time of one of the drainings. 

When the characters come within a few 
feet of the statue, the golem will swing 
the large stone plug as a weapon. The go 
lem will purposely miss on its first attack 
as a waming, but if the PCs retaliate, or 
do not back off, it will strike in eamest. 

Stone Golem: AC 5; MV 6"; HD 60 hp; 
MT 1: Dmg 3-24; THACO 10; SA able to 
cast siow spell on any opponent within 1" of 
its front faring every other melee round; 
SD +2 or greater weapon to damage. only 
affected by the following spells: rock to 
mud slows the golem 50% for 2d6 melee 
rounds, mud to rock resteres all damage 
suffered by the golem, stone to Besh makes 
the golem vuinerable to normal attacks on 
the following melee round: AL N 


103 










Conducting an Investigation 

If the PCs investigate the drain hole, 
read the following: 


Looking into the drain you see nothing 
but a dark hole with smooth stone 
sides extending downward as far as 
the eye can see. Even with a light 
source, no bottom is revealed. A very 
offensive odor emanates from the 
hole. 


One of the larger paving stones on the 
edge of the pool next to the statue is re- 
movable. Under the stone is a metal 
valve and spigot that can be used to refill 
the pool. 

If the Herzog is questioned about the 
statue he will say that it was given to him 
a few months ago by one of his guests, a 
very famous but eccentric magician, as 
thanks for an enjoyable stay. Before he 
left, the magician instructed that the 
statue be mounted by the pool, telling the 
Herzog it wouJd come in handy in keeping 
the pool clean. Not wanting to offend a 
guest, or bring the mage's wrath down on 
the castle, the Herzog did as he was told. 
So far the statue has proved quite harm- 
less, going about its duties very effi- 
ciently, except for one time when it 
scared the heck out of two old ladies who 
happened to be soaking their feet in the 
pool at the time it began a cleamng. 

As for the pool itself, the Herzog will 
recall that it is still connected to an old 
sewer system that is no longer used by 
the castle because of the som - odor that 
kept wafting up from below. Guests kept 
complaining about the smell, so last year 
a new system was dug and the old one 
sealed off. 

Areal: Down the Drain 

The pool is drained through a smooth- 
sided three-foot-diameter stone pipe ex 
tending 100 feet straight down and 
connecting with a larger 10-foot-diameter 
pipe that runs north and south under the 
castle grounds from the point at which it 
intersects the drain pipe. The PCs can 
enter the drain using rope tied to the 


statue or by some magical means (of 
course the braver or more foolhardy 
characters may choose to jump in). At- 
tempting to climb down the slippery pipe 
is very risky, even for a thief, as there are 
no handholds or footholds to be found 
(see WSG, page 33 for Movement Rates 
on slippery surfaces). However the PCs 
decide to descend. when they reach the 
bottom they will discover that a thick web 
basket has been constructed over the 
bottom of the drain pipe < where it con- 
nects with the ceiling of the larger pipe) 
and festooned with small silver sleigh 
bells. The web (as per web spell) will halt 
the PCs descent, for anyone falling on or 
touching the web wiU be stuck tight and 
set the bells to jingling. 

At the sound of the bells. a Plumber et- 
tercap riding in a small two-wheeled 
wooden cart pulled by three giant spiders 
will appear from the north to check out 
the disturbance. The ettercap is wearing 
a cloth vest emblazoned with the words 
"Jack's Plumbing" and carrying a 
plumber's helper on one hånd. On his cart 
are painted the words "Drain A Pain? Call 
Jack!" 

"Jack" and his three heipers have the 
job of removing all obstructions caught in 
the web filters that they've spun over the 
drain pipes feeding into the main sewage 
tunnel. As all the other drains seem to 
have fallen into disuse, they tend to re- 
main in this immediate area, ever alert to 
unclog a filter. 

Jack works for the Scum God (see area 
10) and has orders to bring anything of in- 
terest that gets caught in the filters to his 
chambers (which is what he did with 
Fluffy). Thus he and his spiders will at- 
tempt to subdue the PCs and encase 
them in webbing. In the event that the 
characters were able to avoid the web 
trap without setting off the bells. they will 
encounter Jack and his spiders, standing 
at attention, 30 feet down the north pas 
sage with the same results as above. Jack 
takes his job very seriously, and will not 
answer any questions or give out any in 
formation unless it concems plumbing. 

Ettercap (1): AC 6; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 
29; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld8; THACO 
15; SA Poison; SD Traps; AL NE 


Giant Spider (3): AC 4; MV 3"/12"; 
HD 4+4; hp 19,19,18: MT 1; Dmg2d4; 
THACO 15; SA Poison; AL CE 
Once the party has escaped the web 
trap and survived their encounter with 
Jack, read the following: 


You find yourselves in a 10-foot- 
diameter stone tunnel that appears to 
be part of an old sewage system. The 
cracked limestone walls are dank and 
covered with a greenish-grey growth 
of algae. A grey foul-smelling liquid 
drips from between the cracks and 
there is about six inches of stagnant 
water covering the floor. An obnox- 
ious smell of decomposing matter per- 
meates the tunnel. From where you 
are standing, the tunnel appears to 
stretch north and south, although un- 
derground it is hard to tell directions. 


Area 2: It's No Picnic 

The south passage continues for 60 feet 
from the point where the party entered and 
ends in a 40-foot-diameter stone chamber. 
A small brass plaque over the entrance 
reads "Sewage Treatment Plant-Guided 
Tours Every Hour." Beneath the brass 
plaque a small wooden sign reads "Closed 
Undl Further Notice-Lack of Funds." The 
walls and high-domed ceiling of the cham 
ber are composed of the same material as 
the tunnel. 

This chamber once housed the machin- 
ery necessary to treat the raw sewage 
flowing through the pipes before it was 
dumped in the river. Now all the machin- 
ery has been removed from the room and 
the flow route to the river has been 
sealed by a large plaster patch on the 
southemmost wall. Pieces of rusty, bra 
ken metal pipes of various sizes protrude 
at odd angles from the walls and ceiling, 
periodically dripping moisture. 


In the center of this roughly circular 
room, on a raised mound of sand and 
silt. sits a hideous 10-foot-tall two- 
headed creature. The man-like mon- 
strosity has a roast turkey drumstick 


104 











clamped between each pair of jaws and 
is holding one end of a large wishbone in 
each hånd. Around each rubbery neck is 
tied a white bib decorated with a picture 
of a lobster. Spread out on the ground 
before him is a red and white checkered 
table cloth. On the cloth are four large 
pots and jars and a tin plate piled high 
with bones. To the right of the creature 
sits a large wicker picnic basket. A small 
fluffy white head protrudes from one 
end of the basket. Directly behind the 
knoil. gathered around a piece of cake, 
are six giant ants. 


The giant two-headed troll was given 
the job of maintaining the sewage treat- 
ment plant, again by the Slum God (see 
below). 

Since there is nothing left to maintain 
(all the machinery was removed when the 
new sewer system was dug) he spends all 
his time having a picnic. When he spots 
the party, figuring them to be spies about 
to put an end to his cushy job. he will 
scream in rage spraying bits of turkey 
meat in all directions. With a cry to "Find 
your own picnic spot!" he will hurtle the 
jars and pots at the party, one at a time. 
The crockery contains condiments (gath 
ered in the tunnels by the troil) but of a 
most deadlv variety. The first jar contains 
hot mustard jelly. The second is filled 
with olive and pimento slime. A clay 
pitcher contains crystal lite ooze and an 
open pot is filled with chocolate fudge 
pudding. 

After the troil has exhausted his supply 
of missile weapons, or if the party moves 
within melee range, he will attack, first 
with the drumsticks and then with his 
claws. If the party retreats, he will follow 
and attempt to stop them on the assump- 
tion that they are leaving to report him for 
goofing off. In addition, the six giant ants 
will move into the fray, attracted by the 
spilt food. attacking whoever gets in their 
way. If the picnic basket is inspected. it 
will be found to contain a metal cake plate 
smeared with white frosting, a metal pie 
pan smeared with dried blueberries, and 
a crude sock puppet of a dog. The puppet 
is covered with cotton balls and a iittle 


sign around its neck reads "Puffy." This 
crude Iittle toy was crafted by the troll to 
while away the time between picnics. 
Two-headed trolis are easily amused. 

Giant Two-Headed Troll: AC 4: MV 
12"; HD 10; hp 50; #AT 4: Dmg Id6/ld6/ 
ldlO/ldlO; THACO 10: SD Regenera 
tion; AL CE 

Hot Mustard Jelly (1): AC 4; Move 9" 
(or 12-18" if the creature divides in half): 
HD 7 + 14: hp45; UK T1 or 2; Dmg5d4 or 
2d4/2d4; THACO 13; SA see below: SD 
+ 1 or better weapon to hit; AL N; This 
creature, like a regular jelly, exudes a va- 
por within a 10-foot radius that causes 
victims to become lethargic and move at 
half-normal speed unless they save 
against the effect. In addition, the vapor 
of the hot mustard jelly causes a buming 
in the mouth, a watering of the eyes and 
an overwhelming desire for water. 

Olive and Pimento Slime (1): AC 9; MV 
0"; HD 2+2; hp 11; #AT 0; Dmg Nil: 
THACO 16; SA contact causes metamor- 
phosis into vegetable creature (see olive 
slime MM II pg 110); SD harmed only be 
acid, freezing colds, fire, or by a cure dis- 
ease spell; AL N; Olive and pimento 
slime is a strange combination of olive 
slime and pimento slime which has no 
properties of its own but is delicious in 
cooking. It may be recognized by its olive 
color flecked with small bits of red. 

Crystal Lite Ooze: AC 8; MV l"/3"; 
HD 4; hp 14; #AT 1; Dmg 4d4; THACO 
15; SA exudes paralyzing poison; SD Un- 
harmed by acid, cold, heat. or fire, eiec- 
tricity and magic missiles do full damage, 
weapons do 1 point of damage per hit, 
wooden weapons must save vs. acid or 
break: AL N; Unlike the normal crystal 
ooze, the crystal lite ooze comes in a vari 
ety of colors and flavors. 

Chocolate Fudge Pudding; AC 6; MV 
6"; HD 10; hp 45; #AT 1; Dmg 3d8; 
THACO 10; SA Dissolve wood, metal 
and teeth; SD Blows, cold and lightning 
do no harm: AL N; The chocolate fudge 
pudding is a very close relative of the 
black pudding except for its chocolate- 
brown coloring, its pungent cocoa odor, 
and its ability to dissolve teeth on con 
tact. 

Giant Ants (6): AC 3; MV 18"; HD 2; 


hp 15,11,11,8,6.5; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; 
THACO 16; SA 1 has poison sting; AL N 

Area 3: The Phantom of the 
Cesspool 


As you continue north down the pas 
sage, the smell of sewage and decay 
becomes much stronger. Spaced along 
the ceiling of the tunnel are the pro- 
truding ends of several more three- 
foot-diameter pipes, all capped with 
webbing. With every step your boots 
make a loud squishing sound, adhering 
to the slime and muck lying below the 
standing water. Here and there a 
melon rind, orange peel or wad of 
gummy hair bob lazily on the surface. 

Suddenly a dim light appears directly 
in front of your path. As you watch in 
horror, a spectral figure, garbed in a 
ghostly flowing hooded robe and carry- 
ing a large phantasmal pipe wrench, ma- 
terializes in front of you. 


The apparition is the ghost of Melvin, 
an evil human who in life delighted in 
stopping up sinks and toilets, causing 
much embarrassment and suffering to 
those who followed him in using the bath- 
room. He also enjoyed overflowing the 
bathtub and switching the cold and hot 
water knobs in the shower. Such were 
the extent of his evil deeds that in death 
he was consigned to wander the sewers, 
carrying a phantom pipe wrench and for 
ever searching for leaks, to atone for his 
evil acts. The ghost of Melvin hates all 
living things, especially those that prac- 
tice good hygiene, and will immediately 
attempt to magic jar the cleanest PC. 
Once this is accomplished, he will semi- 
materialize and attempt to age them with 
a touch of his ghostly finger, moaning in a 
chilling voice, "I am the Ghost of Melvin! 
In life I hated all things clean and hygienic. 
If you have no wish to share my fate, 
wash your hånds before every meal." 

Ghost: AC 0 (or 8); MV 9"; HD 10; hp 
39; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10-40 years; 
THACO 10; SA magic jar, SD can only be 
harmed by silver (half damage) or magical 
weapons when semi-materialized; AL LE 


105 











Area 4: New Construction 


Traveling further north through the 
clammy sewer, you encounter a no- 
ticeably newer 6' x 6' passage carved 
into the right-hand wall of the pipe. A 
large mound of dirt and rubble is piled 
up near the entrance next to a wooden 
placard proclairaing "Dig or Dust." A 
dim light giowing from deep within the 
smaller tunnel highlights the swirling 
clouds of dust in the air. and the 
sounds of digging and cursing can be 
detected echoing from within. 


Forty feet into the tunnel is a gang of 
four hard-hat juju zombies wielding picks 
and shovels and wearing yellow helms. 
The zombies, dressed in filthy torn white 
short-sleeve shirts and thread-bare wide- 
bottom denim pants are busily excavating 
the dirt and rock faring at the tunnel's 
end. Periodically a pick or shovel con- 
nects with zombie Oesh instead of dirt, 
with no apparent reaction from the recipi 
ent. Each zombie has a thick sputtering 


candle mounted on the top of its hat, and 
the hot wax runs in rivulets over the sur- 
faces of their undead faces. These zom 
bies were hired by the Slum God to 
expand the sewer system. Because they 
work cheap, don't take long breaks and 
are non-union, they are perfect for the 
job. The zombies will not attack the party 
unless the party attempts to interfere 
with their last command which was to 
"keep digging." They are treated as reg- 
ular juju zombies except for their magical 
hard-iwts which give them a -1 bonus to 
Armor Class. The hats can be wom by 
anyone for the same bonus protection. 
They carry nothing else of value. except 
for Ure picks and shovels (two of each) 
and a few dented Steel lunchboxes con- 
taining dead rat sandwiches and ther- 
moses of bad coffee. 

4 Juju Zombies: AC 6: MV 9"; HD 
3 + 12; hp 29,26.23,22; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4 
with picks and shovels; THACO 16; SA 
Attack as 6th-ievel monsters, SD +1 or 
better magical weapon to hit, piercing or 
blunt weapons do half damage, unaf- 
fected by magic that affects the mind. im 


mune to poison, electricity, magic 
missiles, death magic, and cold spells, 
fire attacks do half damage; AL NE 

Area 5: Take a Bath 


The stone sewage pipe in which you 
have been traveling ends in a "T" in- 
tersection and continues onward to 
the right and left a few feet ahead. 
These new sections are the same size 
and constructed of the same material 
as the one in which you are standing. 
The sour, gaseous odor seems to be 
drifting in from the pipe to your right. 

DirecUy in the center of the inter- 
section is a three-foot-diameter, foot- 
high circular pool composed of 
medium-sized gray rocks. A very 
strong sulphurous smell rises from the 
pool and the thick yellow water within 
bubbles and smokes. The bleached- 
white skuil of a steer with long curving 
horns lies next to the pool. There is a 
small brown hånd towel draped over 
one of the skull's horns and a brown 

















hooded robe hung on the other. Next 
to the skuli is a small weather-beaten 
sign with the word "Pizzen" bumed 
into its face. 


The rock pool encircles a natural un- 
derground mineral spring that forced its 
way through the bottom of the pipe. The 
sulphurous spring is actually about 200 
feet deep and the water is scalding hot. If 
the party tarries at the intersection for 
more than three rounds, the cow skuli 
will begin to shake and rattie and a skele 
tal hånd will slowly rise from the center of 
the pool holding a cake of pink heart- 
shaped soap in its bony fingers. In a raspy 
growl the steer skull will command "Take 
it! Take the soap!" and then fail silent. Af- 
ter five rounds the hånd will slowly lower 
back into the pool whether the soap is re- 
moved or not. The boney hånd belongs to 
a submerged crypt thing that is currently 
bathing in the pool. It is this creature's 
voice that seemed to emanate from the 
skull, seeking to confuse the party. This 
particular crypt thing is of the aberrant 
variety and has the ability to paralyze its 
victims while simultaneously tuming 
them invisible. If anyone reaches for the 
soap. the thing will snake out its other 
hånd and grab his wrist, employing its 
powers to make it seem like he has been 
pulled into the scalding bath, when in re- 
ality he has been invisibly paralyzed at the 
pool's edge. 

It hopes to entice one of the other PCs 
to jump into the buming water (ld6 hit 
points of bum damage per round unless 
suitably protected) to rescue their sup- 
posedly submerged comrade. If someone 
does jump into the pool. the crypt thing 
will swim toward the bottom and silently 
watch their futile attempts at rescue. 

The soap is a normal, rose-scented bar. 
However, if the cake is completely used 
up a small tin whistle will be found embed- 
ded in the center (a prize for keeping 
ciean). 

Crvpt Thing: AC 3: MV 12"; HD 6; hp 
26: MT 1; Dmg ld8; THACO 13; SA 
cast paralyze and invisible: SD only hit by 
magical weapons; AL N 


Area 6: Where the Sewer Ends 


The path to the east extends about 20 
feet and then is blocked by a huge 
wooden sign filling the entire corridor. 
Crouched directly in front of the sign, 
a menacing snarl on its whiskery face, 
is a giant sewer rat. The rat is wearing 
a black eye patch and a wicked-looking 
dagger is gripped between its pointed 
teeth. 


When the PCs approach, the rat will 
point to the sign with its long pink tail and 
emit a waming growl. In large letters the 
sign reads "STOP! This is the Exit to 
Level 9 above and Level 11 below! If you 
have not successfully completed this 
level, piease do not go any farther! Thank 
You. Signed The Management." The sign 
is actually only about one-eighth inch 
thick and easily removed. The rat will 
only attack if the PCs insist on exiting be- 
fore they finish their quest. Beyond the 
sign, the sewer pipe has crumbled into a 
mass of broken stone and fetid mud. Two 
tunnels branch ofr from this point leading 
to Level 9 and Level 11 respectively. 

Giant Rat: AC 7: MV 12"/6": HD 1/2; 
hp 4; MT 1; Dmg ld3; THACO 20; SA 
Disease: AL NE 

Area 7: A Big Hole 


Entering the right-hand section of 
pipe. you find it encased in a thick 
layer of brownish muck. There is still a 
few inches of standing water on the 
floor, but it is thick and muddy. 


If the PCs are actively searching for se- 
cret doors, there is a chance they may 
discover the secret entrance to the lair of 
the Scum God. If this occurs, proceed di 
rectly to encounter 10 and read the de- 
scription. Otherwise, continue reading 
the following: 


As you continue along the tunnel, your 
light source reveals that the path 
ahead seems to drop ofr into nothing- 
ness. As you take a few more tenta 


tive steps you hear a loud creaking 
noise and feel the entire section of 
pipe dip a few inches downward. 


Many moons ago, a shifting in the inner 
earth caused this section of pipe to split 
apart. The resulting fissure opened up a 
huge chasm below the split, and over the 
years, the run-ofr from the pipe created a 
fetid man-made lake far below. 


You find yourselves on the edge of a 
huge chasm stretching several hun 
dred feet below. The section of pipe in 
which you are standing extends a few 
feet over the edge and tilts slightly 
downward. Looking down, you catch a 
reflection of standing water far below. 
Approximately 100 feet across the 
gorge you see the other half of the 
broken pipe continuing onward. Look 
ing up at the dirt ceiling approximately 
10 feet above the top of the pipe. you 
discover clusters of long gnarled tap- 
roots hanging from the earth and ex- 
tending across the entire width of the 
gorge. 


If the PCs choose to cross the chasm, 
they may do so by magical means, with a 
rope and grappling hook, or by hanging on 
to the taproots, which hang almost in 
their faces, and going hand-over-hand. 
The taproots will support the characters' 
weight if they choose to cross that way, 
with maximum movement being 30 feet 
per round. The width of the cavem is 100 
feet and a Dexterity Check with a +2 
modifier must be made every 10 feet. 
Failure means the character has lost his 
grip on the rope, and will fali 300 feet to 
the 20-foot-deep pool below. (See DSG, 
pgs. 35-36 for effects of falling damage.) 

Area 8: Tick...Tick...Tick 

Any character who enters the 20-foot- 
deep and 100-foot-wide pool, either vol- 
untarily or involuntarily will experience 
the following: 


107 











You're floating in a large pool of ice- 
cold scum-coated water. The foul liq- 
uid filis the entire floor of the chasm; 
there are no ledges or hand-holds with 
which to climb out. As you frantically 
try to keep your head above water, 
you hear a loud ticking sound, seeming 
to come from all directions. Looking 
around, you see several log-like 
shapes, gliding through the water, 
heading directly for you. 


The creatures in the pool are giant tick 
ing crocodiles. They were flushed down 
the sewers when their owners, who 
bought them as babies for pets, realized 
that they had grown too big. The eight 
crocodiles will encircle their hapless vic- 
tim and attempt to rend him to shreds. 
Giant ticking crocodiles resemble normal 
giant crocodiles except for the loud tick 
ing noise they generate when they sense 
prey. If the crocodiles are disposed of and 
cut open, a wooden leg, an eye patch, and 
a cudass will be found inside the largest 
one. 

8 Giant Crocodiles: AC 4; Move 6"/ 
12"; HD 7; hp 44,41,34,29,29.25.21,19; 
#AT 2; Dmg 3d6/2dl0; THACO 13; AL 
N 

Area 9: A Dead End 


As you enter the broken section of 
pipe, a deep feeling of dread seems to 
envelope you. Shining a light around 
the area, you see that the pipe ex- 
tends for 30 feet and then ends in a 
large stone cap. Embedded in the 
stone cap is a human skeleton. 


Closer examination of the area around 
the skeleton reveals a small gold badge 
bearing the legend "Inspector #24" lying 
on the floor next to a scrap of parchment. 
The parchment reads "Check the west 
pipe for possible leaks. No sleeping on 
the job. Signed, The Boss." 

If the badge or paper is touched, the 
embedded skeleton will wail 'Tm not 
sleeping!" and then fail silent. This is the 
remains of a sewer inspector who was 
caught in the pipe when it was rent apart; 


the force of the upheaval embedded him 
in the stone wall. Beyond the cap is tons 
of solid earth. 

Area 10: At Last...The Scum 
God 

On the north facing of the sewer pipe 
directly behind a large fissure created by 
a rupture in the stone pipe is a 40' x 40' 
natural stone cavern. The five-foot-wide 
crack leading to the cavern is concealed 
by an old outhouse door propped up 
against the tunnel wall. Because the door 
is as thickly muck-encrusted as the rest 
of the tunnel, the PCs must be actively 
searching to notice its presence. (Treat 
as a secret door for detection purposes.) 


As you pry open the muck-encrusted 
door, a nauseating odor of ancient out- 
houses, unwashed socks, and un- 
earthed graves assaults your nostrils. 
There before you, in a roughlv square 
stone cavern, you see a nine-foot-long 
disgusting heap of blackish green, foul 
brown-and-yellow, and sickly translu 
cent grey-and-amber stretched out on 
a filthy hammock. The hammock is 
support ed by ropes held on either side 
by two large slime creatures. The 
lower body of the reclining monstros- 
ity is encased in a pair of orange, 
green, yellow and blue shorts embla- 
zoned with scenes of palm trees and 
grass-skirted dancers. Small pairs of 
dark-tinted glasses cover the rest of 
the creature's form. In one of its hånds 
is a fruit jar filled with a lumpy brown- 
ish liquid with a thin reed straw rising 
from the jar to the creature's mouth. 
In the other hånd is an unfolded paper 
fan with which the creature seems to 
be fanning itself. 

As soon as the party enters the room 
the heap will gurgle. 


"Ah, visitors! Come in! Come in! Al- 
low me to introduce myself. These pa- 
thetic creatures down here call me the 
Scum God. but you may address me 
as...Juiblex. Ah, I see by your faces 


that some of you have heard of me. So 
much the better. But perhaps you are 
wondering how 1 managed to make my 
way to your lovely plane of existen- 
ce...all in due time. First let me show 
you around my humble abode." 


This said, Juiblex will spread himself 
into a pool of slime and drip off the ham 
mock. 

The Guided Tour 

Juiblex will slime around the 40-foot- 
square by 20-foot-high room pointing out 
all of its salient features to the PCs. Pro- 
truding from the ceiling in the NW comer 
of the room is a broken section of three- 
foot drain pipe. The pipe has been uncap- 
ped and is being used by Juiblex as a 
shower. In the NE comer of the room sits 
a rickety shelf composed of bits and 
pieces of swollen rotted wood. These 
shelves hold the items Juiblex has ae- 
quired during his visit to the sewers, 
brought to him by Jack (see area 1). 
Juiblex will lovingly point to each item in 
tum, pointing out its intrinsic value to the 
PCs. Tucked among the broken bottles, 
soggy pizza crusts, gum wrappers, fish 
heads, dead rats, string, bones and 
snakeskins are jars labeled "hairballs," 
"feces." "soap scum," "teeth," "cigar 
butts," and "used undergarments." 

But Juiblex has saved the best for last. 
From a splintered rectangular wood box 
in the SE comer, a tom label on the front 
showing a dancing banana. he will pro- 
duce two battered wire cages. The first 
cage contains a green, nearly feather- 
bald parrot and the second, a small fluffy 
white dog curled in a bail and sleeping fit- 
fully. Repladng the cages in their con 
tainer. and slithering back over to face the 
PCs, Juiblex wiU relate the following: 


You see. I've always had a desire to 
visit your quaint little plane, but alas, 
the only way I could do so is if someone 
summoned me. But then the most 
amazing thing happened! It seems 
there was a pirate, who. in what I'm 
















sure he thought was an act of dever- 
ness, named his parrot after me. Not 
only that, he taught the bird to say his 
own name, among other foul epithets, 
and day and night he squawked "Juiblex! 
Juiblex!" (At this point the parrot will 
give a short demonstration by squawk- 
ing " Juiblex... Awwwkkk... C all me 
Juiblex" from the depths of the crate.) 
Well, that was all it took. One of the calls 
pierced the Abyss and here I am. Natu 
rally, I killed the pirate and sunk his boat 
for his troubles, bringing my cute little 
namesake here with me to my vacation 
retreat. 

I refer to this lovely place as my va 
cation retreat, and yes, 1 was quite 
ready for a vacation. I was tired of the 
other demons shunning me and whis- 
pering behind my back. just because I 
didn't have a face, so 1 came here to 
get away from it all. And what better 
place for a little rest and relaxation, 
than the sewers. 

But before 1 bore you, let's get to 
the heart of the matter. With my infi- 
nite genius, I've deduced that you've 
probably corne for the dog. Well, you 
see, she was a gift to me from Jack. 
one of my most loyal minions, and as 
such 1 really can't give her up. In faet 
I've even given her a name-Stinky- 
do you like it? This. coupled with the 
faet that somebody obviously flushed 
her down the dram, makes her mine 
now. 

But knowing what stubbom crea- 
tures you humans are, I suppose you'll 
want to fight for her. Very well. take 
that! 


The Fight for Fluffy 

With these last words, Juiblex will 
spray a glob of jelly-slime at the party, 
signaling the beginning of combat. 

Attention DMs: Here's your chance to 
knock those snooty high-level characters 
around a little! Juiblex will fight as nasty 
as possible using every dirty trick in the 
book. He'll start the fight by gating in 1-4 
Type 11 demons to distract the characters 


while he spews his jelly-like slime around 
the room. Then he'll probably counterby 
tossing off an unholy word or maybe a dis- 
pel magic to mess up the magic-users in 
the party. After that he might mix it up 
with a few forceful blows and noisome se- 
cretions, while his living hammock joins 
in the fun. 

When you. as DM. think that the char 
acters have had enough, Juiblex will call a 
halt to the proceeding by declaring 
"truce." He will then tell the PCs that if 
they swear blind obedience to him and 
kiss his feet, he won't kill them but will 
instead take them with him to his place in 
the Abyss to be his slaves for etemity. If 
they refuse (which they should) he will 
make another proposition. 

Forget the slave business, he'll teU 
them, just kiss his feet and swear obedi 
ence and he'll let them live. Unless the 
characters are really perverted, they 
should spum this offer as well. 

Juiblex has one final proposal. Tuming 
towards his shelves of "collectibles" he 
will remove a soggy gold-embossed piece 
of paper with one slimy appendage and 
present it to the party. The characters 
will immediately recognize it as an invita 
tion to the masked ball. Juiblex will State 
that the invitation floated down here ear- 
lier in the day (apparently someone 
dropped it in the pool before it was 
drained) and he would really like to at- 
tend. Being a demon, and a disgusting 
one at that, he's never been to a party 
and feels it would be the perfeet climax to 
his vacation. He'll give the characters his 
sacred oath that if they'11 accompany him 
to the ball, he'll promise to behave, won't 
eat too mueh and will leave promptly at 
midnight. In addition he'll return Fluffy 
and give them the parrot if they desire. 
Juiblex doesn't really want Fluffy any- 
way. He'll tell them this is his final offer, 
and if they don't accept they can resume 
battling to the death. 

Juiblex was just being naughty when he 
made his first demands. He never really 
expected the PCs to kiss his feet. All he 
really cared about was going to the party, 
but he figured by letting the PCs choose 
between the lesser of the evils they 
would be more willing to cooperate. If the 


PCs agree to this proposal he will teleki 
nese himself and the group up through 
the "shower pipe" to their destination, a 
men's room on the first floor of the cas- 
tle. 

2 Slime Creatures: AC 9; MV 6"; HD 
8 + 2; hp 54.39: tf AT 1; Dmg 4d4; 
THACO 12; SA Olive slime; SD only af- 
feeted by acid, freezing cold, fire. magic 
missiles and magical powers which affeet 
plants; AL N 

Juiblex: AC -7; MV 3"; HD 88 hp; 
tf AT 1; Dmg 4dl0; THACO 7; SA shed a 
circle of darkness, 15' radius at will, 
cause fear (as a wand), cast a circle of 
cold, 10' radius, plus do any of the follow- 
ing during a melee round: detect invisi- 
ble. locate object, ESP, dy, dispel magic, 
invisibility 10' radius, charm monster, 
hold monster, telekinese 15,000 gp 
weight, project image, phase door, pu- 
trefy food and water, cause disease, 
speak with monsters, speak an unholy 
word once per day, and gate in 1-4 Type 
II demons (70% success chance). In addi 
tion, he can spew forth a three-cubic-foot 
blob of jelly-like slime combining the ef- 
feets of ochre jelly and green slime once 
per tum with a 15' range; SD +2 or bet 
ter weapon to hit, regenerates 2 hit 
points per round; AL CE: for more infor 
mation on Juiblex or demons see MM, 
pg. 16-17). 

Fluffy's Fun Fax #38-Juiblex 
(The Faceless Lord) 

As a boy, Juiblex was teased and 
taunted by the other young demons who 
used to laugh and call him names (Scum 
Face or Barf Breath being the most popu- 
lar). They never let poor Juiblex join in 
any demonic games. While it is true that 
young Juiblex was extremely disgusting 
and had a tendency to spout caustic se- 
cretions at the most inopportune mo 
ments. the only playmates he could find 
that seemed not to mind his loathsome 
appearance were slimes, jellies, and pud 
dings . It was at this point in his life he was 
given the eruel nickname "The Faceless 
Lord," a moniker that has stuck with him 
to this very day. 

Perhaps this unhealthy beginning is 


109 















what led the adult Juiblex to seek the life 
of a recluse on the 528th layer of the 
Abyss. Here he constructed a little cot- 
tage composed of living fungus and rot. 
Since the entire layer is composed of de- 
caying matter, he never has to mow the 
lawn or rake leaves. He has no mailbox as 
no one ever writes to him and a large 
moldy "Get Lost" mat in front of his 
domicile wams away the occasional 
salesman. Therefore Juiblex whiles away 
the centuries with his favorite hobby, 
spreading himself into a vast pool of slime 
and raising up into a 20-foot column of 
sickening ordure. When he's not doing 
this, he can be found sit ting in his favorite 
fungi chair, thinking evil thoughts. His 
only visitors are the occasional black pud 
ding or grav ooze (and even they don't 
hang around very long). 

Like all demons, Juiblex can visit the 
planes of Tarterus. Hades, or Pandemo- 
nium or take a short jaunt to the Astral 
plane. Before he became entrenched in 
his hermatic lifestyle. he used to take ad- 
vantage of this abilitv but found Tarterus 
too crowded. Hades too gloomy, and 
Pandemonium too windy and noisy for his 
liking. His secret desire is to visit the 
Prime Material plane (he has heard that 
some excellent mushrooms and toad- 
stools grow there) but to do so he needs 
some help, which so far he has been 
loathe to ask for. 

Juiblex's prize possession is a small 
glass jar that once contained catfish bait 
and now contains his vital essence. The 
jar is attached to a thin silver chain and 
well secreted in his lair. If someone were 
to find this "amulet." perhaps by looking 
under the rotted-log bed in the master 
bedroom, that person would gain power 
over Juiblex for a whole day. As Juiblex 
tends to be quite stubbom and indepen- 
dent, this would probably make him very 
mad. 

If you were to meet Juiblex on the 
Street, he would be instantly recogniz- 
able. He would most likely be slithering 
by in his favorite form, that of a nine-foot- 
tall cone-like heap of disgusting matter in 
shades of blackish greens, browns and 
yellows, and translucent grays and am 
bers. Protruding from this mess would be 


several glaring red eyes, the beady orbs 
seeming to dåre passersby to make a 
smart comment. Of course his putrid 
odor would be a dead giveaway, as it is 
noticable blocks away. 

If Juiblex were ever to be invited to any 
social functions, he would probably be the 
life of the party. Being a certifiable ge 
nius, he would be able to expound his 
views on a wide range of conversational 
topics. If the festivities began to lag, he 
could entertain with a few simple parlor 
tricks, among them being locate object, 
ESP, dy, putrefy food and water and the 
ever-popular circle of darkness. 

Although the chances of you ever strik- 
ing up a friendship with Juiblex are pretty 
slim, be wamed. If he happens to take a 
liking to you, he is apt to carry you away 
to his home to become his permanent 
slave. One way to prevent this is to make 
sure you have plenty of holv symbols and 
perhaps a pentacle or two on hånd if he 
should come to visit. And just to be on the 
safe side, don't talk in your sleep. 

Juiblex at the Party 


Needless to say, your appearance in 
the midst of a discussion on polo tech- 
niques between Lord Buttertub and 
the Duke of Biscuit caused quite a 
commotion. Making your apologies 
and hurriedly leaving the startled gen 
tlemen, you steeled yourselves for 
your grand entrance. Your fears how- 
ever, proved to be unfounded. The 
guests soon found themselves drawn 
to the new arrival, captivated by his 
droll wit and unique outlook on life. Al 
though most conversations were kept 
necessarily brief, Juiblex soon proved 
to be the belle of the ball and actually 
behaved quite well for a demon. And 
even though your ears were buming 
with the few whispered comments 
that your costumes were "tacky," you 
felt a certain perverse pride when 
Juiblex won first prize for best cos- 
tume. And true to his word, he de- 
parted at midnight, amid offers to 
return next year and invitations to visit 
country estates. 


But the highlight of the evening was 
when you quietly slipped away from 
the crowd and softly made your way 
up the stairs carrying your precious 
cargo. Slowly creaking open the pol 
ished wood door, you stepped silently 
toward the moonlit bed and the small 
pale figure lying within. As you depos- 
ited the wiggling little bundle in the 
child's empty arms and heard the 
drowsy sleep-filled sigh of "Fluffy" as 
giri and dog snuggled together under 
the thick quilts, you knew it had all 
been worthwhile. 


Just Desserts 

A few days after the adventure a large 
box arrives for the PCs. Inside is a note 
that reads: "Dear PCs, Thank you so 
much for rescuing Penny's little dog. I 
was going to send each of you a 1,000-gp 
gem as a reward, but Penny insisted on 
picking out your reward herself. En- 
closed piease find a lifetime supply of 
Damselette cookies. Sincerely. Penny's 
father." 

Fluffy and Penny are characters copy 
righted by Rick Reid. 



110 











Level ii: moRftenkainen' 
ovie madness 



Setting 

The eleventh dungeon level below 
Castle Greyhawk is the home of the mas 
ter mage Mordenkainen (of "Faithful 
Hound" farne.) The arch-mage cleared 
out the entire level about four years ago 
in order to make room for his, uh, film 
studio. Needless to say, the reports of his 
death were greatly exaggerated. 

You see, after completely exploring the 
World of Greyhawk, growing weary of 
expeditions to the relatively boring outer 
planes. and wincing at the thought of just 
one more voyage to the extremely boring 
inner planes. Mordenkainen tumed his 
attention toward mapping out the various 
altemate Prime Material planes he had 
discovered during his adventures. 

On one such plane he found a world 
very similar to our own 20th-Century 
Earth. There he met Sam and Irww Split- 
tstein, a pair of down-on-their-luck film 
makers. Sam and Irwin had popularized 
the so-called "Sword and Sorcery" 
movie (the Splittsteins like to refer to 
their efforts as "flicks"). These films 
usually feature one or more bronze- 
skinned bodv builders portraving hulking 
barbarians, one or two scantily clad 
models, and a horde of "guys in rubber 
suits" (portraving the monsters that 
make up the barbarians' opposition). Un- 
fortunately, just before Mordenkainen's 
arrival, "Free the POW" and "Grim Vigi- 
lante of Justice" movies had a sudden re- 
surgence of popularity, crowding the 
Splittsteins' S word and Sorcery flicks 
right out of the B-movie bonanza. 

Always the entrepreneur, Mor 
denkainen offered the Splittsteins a deal. 
Borrowing some equipment. Mor 
denkainen offered to return to Greyhawk 
and make Sword and Sorcery flicks on a 
tiny fraction of the budget with which 
Sam and Irwin were currently operating. 
In addition, Mordenkainen promised that 
his films would capture a much larger 
share of the viewing audience because 
the arch-mage could cast real barbarians, 
dragons, and sorcerers. guaranteeing 
spectacular scenes and effects that would 
make Sam and Irwin's flicks look cheap 


by comparison (well, cheaper). In return 
for his services, Mordenkainen asked for 
a flat 35% of the box office gross (paid in 
gold and gems of course) plus exclusive 
distribution rights in Greyhawk. Sam and 
Irwin drove a hard bargain-the wizard 
only got 30%. 

This arrangement has worked out 
rather well for both parties over the past 
four years. Originally, Mordenkainen set 
up shop just outside his stronghold in the 
Great Kingdom; but after a while busi 
ness expanded so much that he was 
forced to set up another branch of his stu 
dio. He chose the dungeons beneath Cas 
tle Greyhawk for this subsidiary effort so 
he could be close to the Random Monster 
Generator (on level 12), which provides 
him with constant cast members for his 
films. 

Recently, Mordenkainen has grown as 
an artist and has began branching out of 
the Sword and Sorcery genre. When the 
players arrive on level 11, the archmage 
will be in the process of making three 
flicks. These are "Seven Secrets of Kung 
Fu Death"-a typical chop sockey star 
ring the fabled Grand Master of Flowers 
and an unlikely horde of exotic ninjas, 
"Monster Fratemity Vacation II: Day- 
tona Daze"-the sequel to last year's 
popular "Monster Fratemity Vacation," 
in which the boys once again head to Fort 
Lauderdale for spring break, and "Fan- 
tasy: The Movie"- the long-awaited film 
version of fantasv role-playing games. 
The latter film is Mordenkainen's pet 
project. 

A Word 
About Combat 

Level 11 has a couple of "realism" 
rules the DM may incorporate into the 
combat rules to make things more inter- 
esting for the players. 

Option 1 

Whenever there is a successful attack 
roil, roil ld 10 and consult the folio wing ta 
ble: 


DIO 

Roli Result 

1 Attack strikes foe's left arm. Lots 
of biood and pain. If you look closely 
you can see tiny little bone frag 
ments. 

2 Attack strikes foe's right arm. Lots 
of biood and pain. Nerve tendrils 
spring out from wound. 

3 Attack strikes foe's left leg. Ouch. 
1D4 tendons are plainly visible. 

4 Attack strikes foe's right leg. In 20 
years he/she/it will certainly de- 
velop arthritis. 

5 Attack strikes foe's left hip. Unusu- 
ally resilient pelvis puts huge notch 
in attacker's sword. Left leg 
spasms 1D4 times. 

6 Attack strikes foe's right hip send 
ing foe's armor deep into the 
wound. Damage caused by the 
blow is the percentage chance that 
the wound will tum blue and ugly. 

7 Attack strikes foe in the mouth. 
knocking out 1D4 teeth. Foe can- 
not eat com-on-the-cob for 1D6 
weeks. 

8 Attack strikes foe in the tongue. In- 
credibly realistic results defy de- 
scription. 

9 Attack strikes foe in the shoulder. 
Collar bone pops out and shoots 
across the room striking foe's near- 
est ally for ld20 points of damage. 

10 Scream "Critical Hit!" and roil ld6. 

1 Sever toe. Incredible hit. +1 to 
next strike. 

2 Deep wound. Random organ 
plops out onto the floor, foe slips on 
it, and cannot get up for ldlO 
rounds. 

3 Random limb severed. 

4 Incredibly good strike. Foe's al- 
lies lose two rounds while they ap- 
plaud. 

5 Cosmic Cataclysm-everyone 
roli all the dice you have. Make fun 
of the player with the lowest total 
for ldl2 rounds. 

6 Awesome strike. Foe cleaved in 
half. Universe no longer a grape. 
+ 7 to next strike and an automatic 
first down. 


111 











Greyhawk Dungeon-Level 11 


Scale: 1 Square = 10 Feet 









































Option 2 

This option, believe it or not, is even 
more "realistic" than option one. but you 
can only use it if you are playing with min 
iature figures. 

Whenever battie erupts, each combat- 
ant grasps his miniature and holds it out 
over the table. The various combatants 
then attempt to stick each other's figures 
with their little swords and scream out 
the amount of damage they think each 
blow would have done, while trying to 
avoid being stuck by the others. Whom- 
ever gets bored first loses and is dead. 
Make sure to have plenty of little cutting 
implements on hånd for all of the severed 
limbs, broken weapons, etc. 

Wandering Monsters 
on Level 11 

Roll ldlO on the table below every two 
tums. 

DIO 

Roll Result 

1-6 No Encounter 

7-8 2d6 Giant Trolis (AC 4: MV 12"; 
HD 8; AAT 1; Dmg 2d8: THACO 
12; SA Regeneration). The giant 
trolls are some of Mordenkainen's 
groupies from the Pomarj 

9 ld3 Nvcadaemons (AC -4; MV 
12"/36"; HD 12+36; AAT2; Dmg 
ld8 + 8; THACO 7; SA magic, see 
FF, pg 69). The Nycadaemons are 
here as representatives of certain 
high-ranking officials of Gehenna 
who are trying to seil the film rights 
to their life stories. 

10 Demogorgon (AC -8; hp200; AAT 
3; Dmg Special; THACO 4; SA 
magic, demon lord of the abyss, 
see MM, pg 16). 

Encounter Key 

Area 1: Entry Chamber 

There is very little of value in this 
room. Well-wom steps blanketed in dust 
lead up to level 10 from the center of the 
chamber, and moth-eaten tapestries de- 


picting frolicking elves are tacked to each 
of the four walls. 

Area 2: Bijou 

Mordenkainen has converted tilis area 
into a small movie theater. He holds two 
shows per day here, and charges the 
monsters from the surrounding dungeon 
levels 50 gp each for admission (on Sun- 
days there are 20-gp matinees). 

The only way to enter the bijou is 
through the huge double doors on the 
north wall, which lead into the lobby. The 
other doorways are all one way, leading 
out. Just outside the lobby entrance is a 
poster for the current feature, "They 
Saved Tenser's Brain." 

Immediately inside the lobby doors is a 
box office where Mort and Gort (two of 
Mordenkainen's apprentices) will stop 
the party and ask them each for their 50- 
gp admission fee. If the PCs refuse to 
pay, the wizards will attack and summon 
the iron golem ushers (see below). If the 
party members pay the full amount, the 
two wizards will offer to seil them pop 
corn for five gp per box. 

Mort and Gort: AC -2 (bracers of de- 
fense ACZ)\ MV 12"; MU 22; hp 42, 48; 
ST 12, IN 18, WI14, DE 18, CO 13, CH 
15; AAT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 11; AL 
CN. Both Mort and Gort wear a ring of 
regeneration and have the following 
spells memorized: 

Level 1: Charm Person (x2), Enlarge, 

Protection From Evil, Sleep 

Level 2: Detect Invisibility, Invisibility, 

Mirror Image (x2), Scare 

Level 3: Blink, Hold Person (x2). Light- 

ning Bolt (x2) 

Level 4: Fear (x2). Minor Globe oflnvul- 
nerability, Polymorph Other, Wall of Fire 
Level 5: Cloudkill. Cone of Cold (x2), 
Feeblemind, Wall of Force 
Level 6: Anti-Magic Shell, Bigby's 
Forceful Hånd, Geas, Flesh to Stone 
Level 7: Duo-Dimension, Morden 
kainen 's Sword, Power Word Stun (x2) 
Level 8; Antipathy, Mindblank, Otto's Ir- 
resistible Dance, Serten's Spell Immu- 
nity 

Level 9: Imprisonment, Power Word KM, 
Shape Change. 


The theater itself seats about 150 mon 
sters. When the party enters, they will 
find the theater completely dark. On the 
screen is a film depicting huge armies of 
90-foot-tall orcs storming all over Grey- 
hawk, lead by a severed head floating in a 
fishbowl (presumably Tenser). Three 
melee rounds after the party enters the 
theater there is a problem with the pro- 
jector, and the audience begins groaning. 
Two rounds after that, a huge riot breaks 
out and the various members of the audi 
ence begin to attack the theater and each 
other. There is a good chance that the 
PCs will become entangled in the festivi- 
ties. The following creatures are in- 
volved in the riot: 

Buford (insane evil titan): AC -3; MV 
21"; HD 22; hp 88; AAT 1; Dmg 8d6: 
THACO 7; SA see MM. pg 94. Buford 
wears a colossal backpack that is stuffed 
with 440 gp, three 75 gp gems. and two 
potions of giant strength. 

Todd and Sid (beholders): AC 0/2/7; 
MV 3"; hp 75; AAT 3; Dmg Id8/ld8/ 
3dl0; THACO 10; SA breath weapon 

Galgathrax (huge ancient red dragon): 
AC -1; MV 9"/24"; HD 11; hp 88: AAT 
3; Dmg Id8/ld8/3dl0; THACO 10; SA 
breath weapon 

Ygordrim (death slaad): AC -4; MV 
12"; HD 15 + 7; hp 127; AAT 3: Dmg 
2dl0/3d6/3d6; THACO 7; Special see 
FF, pg. 81. Ygordrim is on vacation from 
Limbo. He carries 27,000 gp in traveler's 
checks, redeemable at any bank in the 
lower planes. 

Stan (death Knight): AC 0; MV 9"; HD 
9; hp 97; AAT 1; Dmg ldlO+6; THACO 
12; Special see FF, pg. 23. 

Mordenkainen has posted an iron go 
lem (AC 3; MV 6"; hp 80, 80; AAT 1; 
Dmg 4dl0; THACO 4; Special poison 
gas) at each of the theater's two exists. 
Three rounds after the riot begins, the 
golems will attempt to quell it. 

Area 3: Projection Room 

This chamber houses the projector 
that services the adjacent bijou. The pro- 
jectionist is another of Mordenkainen's 
apprentices. Bort (with stats identical to 
those of Mort and Gort from area 2). If 


113 







the party enters this room during the 
riot, they will find Bort completely tan 
gled in film, desperately trying to restart 
the movie. 

Needless to say, there is a 70-mm pro- 
jector in the room which is enough of an 
oddity in Greyhawk to fetch a price of 500 
gp or so on the open market. Lining the 
east wall are several film reels bearing ti 
tles like: "Balzor The Warrior," "Island of 
the Sorceresses," and "Anak!" Con- 
cealed in a film canister marked "Mon 
ster Fratemity Vacation" are four 500-gp 
gems. 

Area 4: Mordenkainen's Office 

On the door leading to this chamber is a 
sign reading "PRIVATE KEEP OUT." 
From here Mordenkainen carries on all of 
his day-to-day operations. The office fea 
tures a large ivory desk (worth 750 gp). a 
collection of file cabinets stuffed full of old 
papers, and the fabled hot tub of r elaxa- 
tion. Mordenkainen himself will be in the 
hot tub with Fiona, his very special 
friend, when the PCs enter. 

Mordenkainen: AC -2 ( bracers of de- 
fense AC 2); MV 12"; MU 29: hp 110; 
ST 9, IN 20, WI17, DE 18, CO 12. CH 
18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; THACO 11; AL 
CN. Mordenkainen has a staff of the 
magi, a ring of regeneration, and the 
crown of might. He has memorized the 
following spells: 

Level 1: Charm Person (x2), Enlarge, 
Light, Magic Missile (x2). Shocking 
Grasp 

Level 2: Invisibility (x3), Mirror Image, 
Stinking Cloud. Web (x2) 

Level 3: Clairvoyance, Dispel Magic 
(x2), Hold Person, Lightning Bolt (x2), 
Protection from Normal Missiles 
Level 4: Charm Monster (x2). Fear (x2). 
Minor Globe of Invulnerability, Poly- 
morph Other (x2) 

Level 5: Bigby's Interposing Hånd, 
Cloudkill, Cone of Cold (x2), Magic Jar, 
Mordenkainen 's Faithful Hound 
Level 6: Anti-Magic Shell, Death Spell, 
Disintegrate, Geas, Otiluke's Freezing 
Sphere, Tenser's Transformation 
Level 7: Delayed Biast Fireball (x2), 
Mordenkainen's S word (x2), Power 


Word Stun, Statue 

Level 8: Incendiary Cloud, Mass Charm 
(x2). Mind Blank, Power Word Blind, 
Symbol 

Level 9: Power Word Kill (x2). Prismatic 
Sphere, Shape Change, Wish (x2) 

Fiona: AC 1; MV 12"; T 14; hp 84; ST 
16. IN 15, WI 10, DE 18, CO 16. CH 17; 
MT; Dmg ld8 + 6; THACO 9; AL N. 
Fiona wears a ring of protection +5 and 
is armed with a long sword +5. 

Also in the room are Mordenkainen's 
three nycadaemon bodyguards (AC -4; 
MV 12"/36"; HD 12 + 36; hp 130, 128, 
116; MT 2; Dmg ld8 + 8; THACO 7; SA 
magic, see FF, pg. 69). 

If any of the PCs entering this room has 
a Charisma of 16 or higher, Mor 
denkainen will frame his or her face be- 
tween his two hånds and immediately 
offer to make all of the PCs "stars." Re- 
fer to this level's Appendix for the out- 
come of any deals. 

If none of the PCs meet the Charisma 
requirement, Mordenkainen will order 
his bodyguards to remove the tres- 
passers from his office. He and Fiona will 
join in if necessary. 

Buried in the mass of papers found in 
the filing cabinets is a scroll containing the 
spells wizard lock, Mordenkainen 's faith 
ful hound, delayed biast fireball and time 
stop. In one of the desk drawers is a dag 
ger +2 and a map showing the location of 
Mordenkainen's secret stronghold in the 
Great Kingdom. 

Area 5: Mordenkainen's 
Antechamber 

This is a small alcove just off Mor 
denkainen's office. Located in this room 
is the dimensional gateway that Mor 
denkainen uses to make the joumey to 
the Splittstein's plane. The gateway ap- 
pears as a huge shimmering silver arch. 
Anyone stepping through the arch finds 
himself in Sam and Irwin Splittstein's of- 
fices on the altemate Prime Material 
plane. On the other plane the gateway is 
disguised as a cheap wall hanging. 

Mordenkainen also uses this room to 
store the treasure that he plans to bring 


back to his stronghold in the Great King 
dom. The room currently holds 15 sacks, 
each containing 200 pp. 

Area 6: Records/Script Hall 

The door to this room is locked. This is 
where Mordenkainen keeps his business 
records, scripts, and other important pa 
pers. Inside is a large oak desk (worth 
250 gp), and several filing cabinets, all of 
which are literally choked with old pa 
pers. 

Lying on the desk are several impor 
tant papers that may attract the PCs' at 
tention. These are described below: 

* Paper #1: A memo from Sam and 
Irwin to Mordenkainen. It reads, "M- 
We got the OK! This is our big chance. 
Remember, we are going to get hassled 
unless the film is as accurate a represen- 
tation of fantasy games as possible. You 
better give us a look at the screenplay be- 
fore you start shooting -Sam & 1. PS: ls 
there some way we can get Tom 'the 
Bomb' Brannigan into this one?'' 

* Paper #2: The first page of the fan 
tasy movie script: 

"FANTASY: THE MOVIE 
A Screenplay by Edgar Gordon Galaxy 

CAST OF CHARACTERS 

Boffo: A bold, hearty dwarf who often 
relies upon his formidable combat skilis 
(instead of his brains) to solve his prob 
lems. 

Vebvennena: A bold, hearty wizard 
who often relies upon his mighty magic 
(instead of his brains) to solve his prob 
lems. 

The Weasel: A bold, hearty thief who 
often relies upon his devastating back- 
stabbing ability (instead of his brains) to 
solve his problems. 

Buongiomo: A bold, hearty cleric who 
often relies upon his potent healing magic 
(instead of his brains) to solve his prob 
lems. 

SCENE ONE: The PARTY is in an un- 
derground complex deep beneath the 
planet's surface. 









BOFFO: Quickly my friends, let us en- 
ter this chamber in search of gold and ex- 
perience! 

VEBVENNENA: Gold and experience 
do little to whet my appetite, friend 
Boffo. I come questing magic. 

THE WEASEL: Spleeb this debate! 
Come Boffo, help me listen at this door 
whilst Veb prods for traps with his 10-foot 
pole and Buongiomo attempts to disbe- 
lieve. Need I remind you that we have but 
six wishes and 41 charges left in the staff 
of curing! 

BUONGIORNO: Yes, and I am sure 
that anv moment now thousands of the 
demons will be unleashed onto this plane 
in order to spirit all our princesses off to 
the Abyss! 

* Paper #3: This is a list of the props 
needed for the fantasy movie. It reads: 
"Potion of climbing, six potions of extra 
healing. six assorted scrolls, ring of djinni 
summoning. ring of fire resistance, ring 
of speil storing, ring of multiple wishes, 
rod of lordly might, rod of rulership, staff 
of curing, wand of fear, wand of negation, 
alchemy jug, apparatus ofkwalish, boots 
of elvenkind. bracers of de fense, carpet 
of flying, cloak of protection +3, cube of 
force, eyes of minute seehg, gem of 
brightness. helm of telepathy, javelin of 
piercing, necklace of adaptation, portable 
hole, talisman of zagy, trident of submis- 
sion, plate mail +5 (2 suits). shield + 5, 
shield + 4, defender sword +5, luck 
blade. 

These items are gathered and in Prop 
Storage Area #1 - M." 

* Paper #4: This is a memo from Mor- 
denkainen to his assistants. It reads, 
''For the climactic scene of the movie we 
are going to have to trash Castle Grey- 
hawk. Make sure you perform all the nec- 
essary camera maintenance. I don't want 
to have to waste another castle again be- 
cause you are using bad cameras. Filming 
is scheduled for DATE-M." 

The date on the memo is exactly 21 
days after the players find the message. 
Mordenkainen is indeed planning to 
gather his forces together and travel to 
the surface in order to destroy Castle 


Greyhawk for the climactic scene of the 
fantasy movie. If he and his apprentices 
are still alive three weeks from now you 
should create this encounter and run it. 
Most of the creatures on this level will be 
involved in the attack on the castle. (The 
druids of the Golden Bough will also join 
in. once they see what's going on.) 

Area 7: Wardrobe Room 

Mordenkainen uses this room to store 
the costumes he needs on hånd for his 
films. Lining the walls are racks contain- 
ing every sort of cheap movie costume 
imaginable: ninja suits, army uniforms, 
shining armor. space suits, police uni 
forms, etc. 

When the players enter this room they 
will encounter 12 mummies (AC 3; MV 
6"; HD 6 + 3; hp 51. 49. 47. 49, 50. 41. 
40. 46,49. 44, 48, 50; MT 1; Dmg ldl2; 
THACO 13; SA Fear, see MM, pg 72) 
that are being fitted for new bandages by 
Vort (same stats as Mort and Gort from 
area 2), Mordenkainen's tailor. The 
mummies are going to be playing a bit 
part in the fantasy movie. 

Hanging on the racks amid the other 
costumes are a cloak of elvenkind and a 
suit of leather +3. In the pockets of a 
phony wizard robe are two necklaces and 
a ring, each worth 400 gp. 

Area 8: Main Casting 

In this room the party will find a large 
desk immediately opposite the door. Sit- 
ting behind the desk is Cort, another of 
Mordenkainen's apprentices (same stats 
as Mort and Gort from area 2). There is 
also a long line of ghouls (AC 6; MV 9"; 
HD 2; hp 16. 14. 15, 16, 16. 14, 12, 16, 
16, 15. 14; MT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; 
THACO 16; SA Paralyzation) auditioning 
for a small walk-on part in the fantasy 
movie. The ghouls approach the desk one 
at a time and tap dance. Cort responds to 
their efforts with either "Next!", or 
"Don't call us, we'll be in touch." There 
are 11 ghouls in all. Cort wears a ring that 
is worth 1,000 gp. 

On the south wall of the casting office is 
a wooden door leading to a much smaller 


private casting office. The only fumiture 
in the smaller room is the unique couch of 
casting. The couch fries to charm anyone 
sitting upon it (save at -2) for the direc 
tor. 

Note: The DM should also place as 
many monsters created by the Random 
Monster Generator as he feels appropri- 
ate in the casting office. These creatures 
are also auditioning for parts in the 
movie. 

Area 9: Prop Storage #1 

There is an ivory placard outside the 
door leading into this room reading, 
"PROP STORAGE #1." Mordenkainen 
stores a lot of the little odds and ends he 
needs to make his films here. There are 
shelves lining each of the chamber's four 
walls that hold hundreds of props, gad- 
gets, and doodads. Some of the items on 
the shelves include: a yo-yo, a pair of 
boar's tusks, a number of rubber swords 
and spears, a pith helmet, a stuffed os- 
trich, the Venom Pikes' 1044 single "An- 
archy in the Spindrift Isles," a buddha 
statue with a clock in its stomach, a nor 
mal shield and helmet, and full length sil 
ver mirror. The latter item is worth 450 
gp, all the others are worthless. 

In a concealed compartment behind 
one of the shelves are a ring ofspell stor 
ing, a carpet of flying, and helmet of te 
lepathy. 

None of the items listed in Paper #3 in 
area 6 are here. 

Area 10: Special Effects 
Department 

Two of Mordenkainen's apprentices, 
Qort and Xort (same stats as in area 2) 
are on duty filming the special effects se- 
quences for the fantasy movie. There are 
two large tables in the room. On one table 
is huge model of the fabled City of Brass 
which was constructed out of solid gold (it 
was easier to work). On the other are 
various models of dragons, xoms, ti- 
tanotheres, etc. A camera is set up in the 
comer of the room to record everything 
that happens. 

As the party enters the room, they will 


115 
















find Qorl and Xort hard at work over the 
City of Brass modei, using pyrotechnics 
spells to simulate a huge firestorra. If the 
party members do nothing to disturb 
their work. the two wizards will ignore 
them; otherwise, one of the pair will try 
to flee to Mordenkainen's office (area 4) 
to summon the arch-mage and his body 
guards to deal with the intruders. 

The City of Brass model is worth ap- 
proximately 3,500 gp. and most of the fig- 
urines are worth 100 gp each (there are 
20 in all). Hidden in with the small dragon 
models is a Ggurine of wondrous power- 
ebonv fly. 

Area 11: Prop Storage #2 

This room is similar to Prop Storage Hl 
(area 9). It too has an ivory placard out- 
side the door. Items stored here include a 
sack of 450 gp. a plastic crown, a basket 
ball, three cases of beer. a pile of old 
newspapers, a model of a luxury yacht, 
an 90-foot-long coil of rope, a bass guitar, 
an electric fan, a pair of knitting needles, 
and a trash can. Other than the gold, 
there is no treasure here. 

Area 12: Commissary 

This is where the cast and crew of 
Mordenkainen's films come for lunch. 
There are cafeteria tables and benches 
scattered all along the room. Along the 
west wall is a counter where one can buy 
food. Working behind the counter is Port, 
another of Mordenkainen's apprentices 
(same stats as in area 2). On the wall be 
hind the counter is a price list that reads 
as follows: 

Cream of Human soup-40 gp 
French Fried Dwarves-35 gp 
Elf Kidney Salad-60 gp 
TODAY'S SPECIAL: 

Halfling Legs-20 gp. 

When the party members enter, they 
will find a number of creatures in the com 
missary, sitting down to a pleasant lunch. 
These include a salamander (AC 5/3; MV 
9": HD 7 + 7; hp 56; MT 2; Dmg ld8/ 
2d6; THACO 12; SA Heat, see MM pg. 


85. an umber hulk (AC 2; MV 6" (6"); HD 
8 + 8; hp 59; MT 3; Dmg 3d4/3d4/4d3-2; 
THACO 10; SA Confusion), an ettin (AC 
3; MV 12"; HD 10; hp 77: MT 2; Dmg 
2d8/3d6; THACO 10; SA low surprise), 
and 16 xvarts (AC 7, MV 6"; HD 1-1; hp 
7, 6, 7, 5, 6, 7, 5, 4, 6, 7, 7, 5, 6, 7, 5, 6: 
MT 1; Dmg ld4 +1; THACO 20. 

The creatures in this room will ignore 
the PCs unless they are disturbed. None 
of the creatures has any treasure. 

Area 13: Kitchen 

The food for the commissary is pre- 
pared in this room. There are cabinets, 
tables, chopping blocks, pots, pans, etc. 
scattered about the room. In die center 
of the chamber is a huge iron cauldron. 
Suspended above the cauldron are four 
unconscious halflings (AC 10; MV 12"; F 
4; hp 12.11.10,12; ST10, IN 10. Will, 
DE 16, CO 9, CH 13). As the PCs enter 
the room, Mike and George, Mor 
denkainen's djinni chefs (AC 4; MV 9"/ 
24"; HD 7+3; #AT 1; Dmg 2d8; SA see 
MM, pg 28), are about to lower the half 
lings into the boiling water in the caul 
dron. The halflings are aclually wealthy 
princes from the Awesome Halfling King- 
dom. If rescued and returned, they will 
reward each of the PCs with 3,000 gp. 

Area 14: Soundstage 

This is one of five soundstages on the 
level. The film, "Seven Seorets of Kung 
Fu Death" is currently being shot here. 
Mordenkainen's prop men have fixed up 
the soundstage to resemble a giant Hong 
Kong warehouse. Currently inside the 
Soundstage is SSKFD's director, Fu Han 
(AC 9; MV 21"; Th 15; hp 70; ST 11, IN 
13, WI 13. DE 15, CO 13. CH 16; 
THACO 14; Dmg ld4), 12 xorns dressed 
as ninjas (AC -2; MV 9"; HD 7 + 7; hp 
63, 61, 61, 61, 62. 63, 62, 51, 61, 60. 54. 
14; MT 4; Dmg Id3(x3)/6d4; THACO 
12; SA see A/M. pg 102, and the Grand 
Master of Flowers (AC -3; MV 32"; 
Mnk 18; hp 85; ST 15. IN 16. WI 16, DE 
17, CO 17, CH 15; AAT 4; Dmg 8d4. If 
you have the Oriental Adventures rule 
book use the rules for oriental monks and 


assume that each of the xorns have all the 
abilities of 5th-level ninjas. 

As the PCs enter, Fu Han will shout 
"Action." At that point one of the xorns 
will trade a couple of blows with the 
Grandmaster, pause, say "Ah. I see 
you've been practicing your Kung Fu!," 
and motion for the other xorns to sur- 
round the monk. The Grandmaster then 
proceeds to beat the tar out of the whole 
group. 

Fu Han is recording this entire scene 
with a camera (worth 750 gp in Greyhawk 
as an odd curiosity). Plainly visible on the 
Grandmaster is a necklace of adaptation 
and a ring worth 75,000 gp. No one will 
disturb the PCs unless attacked or inter- 
fered with. 

Area 15: Soundstage #2 

This soundstage will also be used for 
the filming of "Seven Secrets of Kung Fu 
Death." It is currently completely empty 
save for the piles of toois and boards that 
Mordenkainen's workmen will be using 
to construct the next set. The entire floor 
of the soundstage is covered by wooden 
boards. In one comer of the room (indi- 
cated on the map) there is no real floor, 
and the boards cover a deep pit. Anyone 
stepping on the boards in this area fails 50 
feet (and suffers appropriate falling dam 
age). 

Area 16: Dressing Rooms 

These chambers house the quarters of 
the various stars of "Seven Secrets of 
Kung Fu Death." Each dressing room 
features a bed, table, mirror, wardrobe, 
and desk. The individual dressing rooms 
are described in more detail below: 

A) Skrod's room: Skrod is the xom 
king from the elemental plane of Earth. 
He has signed a four-year, six-picture 
deal with Mordenkainen. When the party 
enters. Skrod not here. Skrod keeps 
nothing of value in his quarters. 

B) Cheeha's room: Cheeha is one of 
King Skrod's assistants. He too is out 
when the players arrive in his dressing 
room. Cheeha keeps the 550 gp that 
Mordenkainen paid him to do SSKFD un- 


116 








der his bed. Lying on Cheeha's table is a 
pound of coal (a late night snack). 

C) Grandmaster's room: This room is 
the temporary home to the Grandmaster 
of Flowers. The Grandmaster has five 
500-gp gems hidden under a loose floor- 
board, and a pair of cuff links ofprotection 
+2 on his table. 

D) Fu Han's room: "Seven Secrets of 
Kung Fu Death's" director, Fu Han, is 
quartered in this room. In his wardrobe 
are two expensive oriental robes worth 
300 gp each. Fu Han is in area 14 when 
the party enters his dressing room. 

Area 16: Soundstage 03 

This soundstage has been converted 
into a cheap bar for use in "Monster Fra- 
temity Vacation II: Daytona Daze." In its 
current State, the soundstage features a 
number of tables and stools, a bar, and a 
few neon beer signs. As the PCs ap 
proach this room they will hear bubble 
gum rock and roli music (the film's sound 
track, provided by a tape machine in the 
soundstage's southeast comer). 

As the party members enter this cham- 
ber they will notice 20 ogres (AC 5; MV 
9"; HD' 4 + 1; hp 33 (x 19), 5; ØKT 1; 
Dmg ldlO; THACO 15), four frost giants 
(AC 4, MV 12": HD 10 + ld4: hp 77. 73, 
80,68; (KAT 1: Dmg 4d6; THACO 10: SA 
Huri Rocks), and a huge old green dragon 
(AC 2: MV 9" /24"; HD 9; hp 54; MT 3: 
Dmg Id6/ld6/2dl0; THACO 12; SA 
Breath Weapon). These monsters make 
up the cast of "Monster Fratemity Vaca 
tion II." They are all wearing sweatshirts 
embroidered with Alpha-Delta-Delta 
symbols. As the party enters the sound 
stage, the monsters will all be gathered 
around in a cluster, waiting for their direc 
tor to return (see area 18). 

Upon seeing the party, the green 
dragon says, "No, you guys want the fan- 
tasy movie, soundstage 05 -out the door 
and take a right." The monsters will not 
attack the party unless molested. Lying 
on the ground by the door the party en 
ters, next to a clapboard bearing the 
film's full title, is a 100-gp gem that some- 
one must have dropped. 


Area 17: Soundstage 04 

This is another empty soundstage 
awaiting conversion for use in "Monster 
Fratemity Vacation II" (similar to area 
15). It too features a conceaied 50-foot- 
deep pit. Scattered all across the sound 
stage are 650 sp, the reinnants of last 
night's wild party. 

Area 18: Writers' Chamber 

The screen writers for "Monster Fra 
temity Vacation II" spend most of their 
time in this area. As they enter the room, 
the party members will find the six writ 
ers (fat orcs with perms, AC 6; MV 9"; 
HD 1; hp 6, 7, 8, 8. 8, 7: MT 1; Dmg 
ld8; THACO 19) busily clacking away on 
their type writers. The film's director, 
Yort (one of Mordenkainen's ap- 
prentices-same stats as those in area 2) 
is also in the room, waiting for the writers 
to finish the next scene. You see, Mor- 
denkainen is rushing this film out in order 
to cash in on the success of the original 
"Monster Fratemity' Vacation." The 
screenplay is being written scene-by- 
scene in order to save urne-as each 
scene is written, it is filmed. 

Each of the writers wears a small sack 
containing 2 sp (what did you expect, 
these are writers!). 

Area 19: Incredible Treasure 
Give-Away Room 

This is an empty room containing 1000 
gp, six 200-gp gems, 500 pp, 22,000 sp, a 
necklace worth 400 gp, a ring worth 275 
gp. a potion of tost giant control, two jars 
of Keoughtom's ointment, a s hort sword 
+3, and a cursed two-handed sword -5. 
No. Mordenkainen is not using these 
items as props for any movies-this room 
is here so the players quit complaining 
about the lack of treasure. Hope it works. 

Area 20: Dressing Rooms 

Except for their occupants, these 
rooms are identical to the dressing rooms 
found in area 16. These rooms are de- 
scribed in more detail below: 

A) Ogres' room: This dressing room 


quarters 20 ogres and looks like it! The 
room is an absolute mess. All of the fumi- 
ture is in splinters and half-eaten hunks of 
cheese and haunches of meat are scat 
tered everywhere. The ogres sleep on a 
pile of skins on the floor. 

As could be expected, the ogres blew 
their entire fee for appearing in "Monster 
Fratemity Vacation II" on fine wine and 
meat. In one comer of the room are two 
casks of excellent wine worth 250 gp 
each. When the player characters enter 
this room the ogres are in area 16. 

B) Dragon's room: This area serves as 
temporary quarters for the huge old 
green dragon that is appearing in "Mon 
ster Fratemity Vacation O." The dragon 
has had all of the fumiture except for the 
mirror removed, and has moved in a 
small portion of his horde so that he can 
feel at home. The room currently con- 
tains 200 gp, 2,000 sp, 500 ep, 75 five-gp 
gems, and a philter of love. The green 
dragon is in area 16 when the player char 
acters enter his dressing room. 

Area 21: Soundstage ØS 

This huge soundstage is in the process 
of being converted into the small dungeon 
complex that makes up one of the highly 
detailed and realistic sets of "Fantasy: 
The Movie." Each area is described in 
more detail below: 

A) An empty. smooth chamber. As 
soon as anyone opens the door leading 
into area A, a huge hammer swings down 
from the ceiling and strikes him for ldl2 
points of damage. 

B) Yet another empty, smooth cham 
ber. Anyone entering area B is instantly 
teleported to area C! 

C) Yet again another empty, smooth 
chamber. Anyone entering area C is in 
stantly teleported to area B! 

D) Still another empty, smooth cham 
ber. Other than the faet that there is no 
treasure, there is nothing extraordinary 
about this room. 

E) Another empty. smooth chamber. 
As the party members approach this area 
they will hear the sounds of the power 
tools that the three stone giant mainte- 
nance men (AC 0; MV 12"; HD 9 + ld3; 


117 
















hp 73. 69. 50; #AT 1; Dmg 3d6: THACO 
12; SA Huri boulders) are using to sand 
down the walls in order to make them 
nice and smooth for filming. Whether the 
player characters disturb them or not, 
the stone giants will mindlessly leap to at- 
tack, fighting until dead. 

F) Not a smooth, empty chamber! In 
the movie, this area will represent the 
obligatorv dead end passage minotaur 
lair. 

G) Still another incredibly empty, 
smooth chamber, perhaps even emptier 
and smoother than areas A through E. 
There are four more stone giant workers 
(AC 0; MV 12"; HD 9 + ld3; hp 60, 40, 
50.28; #AT 1; Dmg 3d6; THACO 12; SA 
Huri boulders). These giants ignore the 
PCs unless the PCs attack. 

H) The emptiest, smoothest chamber 
of all. In the middle of this room is a stair- 
case leading down to level 12. 

Area 22: Dressing Rooms 

Again, these rooms are similar to those 
in areas 16 and 20. This block of dressing 
rooms houses the stars of "Fantasy: The 
Movie." 

A) Tom "the Bomb" Buchannan's 
room: Tom is a popular professional 
wrestler on the Splittstein's plane. Sam 
and Irwin managed to sign him to a two- 
year, 20-picture deal and insisted that 
Mordenkainen use him in the fantasy 
movie in order to cash in on his popular- 
ity. When the partv enters the room, the 
Bomb (AC 6; MV 12"; F 15; hp 100; ST 
18(00), IN 4. WI 4, DE 18, CO 18, CH 
16; THACO 6: Dmg grappling/ 
pummeling) is sitting on his bed with two 
elven women (AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 
2. 3; #AT 1; Dmg ld3; THACO 20). His 
only comment will be, "Uh I don't sign 
autographs-why don't you leave?" 

The Bomb has quite a bit of treasure in 
his room, but unfortunately it is all in U.S. 
dollars. There is about $14,000 stuffed 
under Tom's mattress. 

B) The tarrasque's room: Mor 
denkainen managed to convince the 
dreaded tarrasque to make a cameo ap- 
pearance in "Fantasy: The Movie." 
When the party enters this chamber the 


tarrasque (AC -3; MV 9"; hp 300; #AT 
6; Dmg Idl2/ld2/2dl2/5dl0/ldl0/ldl0: 
THACO 4; SA see MMJI, pg 117) is 
sleeping, but if any of the party members 
makes the slightest sound the beast will 
leap up and viciously attack them all until 
dead. The creature is wearing a dark pair 
of sunglasses that makes it immune to 
light or continuaJ light spells cast on its 
eyes. The tarrasque has no unusual trea 
sure. 

C) Red Dragon's room: Giliwampat, 
the red dragon, has become something of 
a star in Mordenkainen's films ("Fantasy: 
The Movie" will be his eighth picture). 
As the PCs approach this room they will 
notice a group of four orcish groupies (AC 
7; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 1, 1. 1. 1; THACO 
20) waiting for autographs outside the 
dragon's door. 

Inside the dressing room, Giliwampat 
(AC -1; MV 9"/24"; HD 11; hp 88; MT 
3; Id8;ld8;3dl0: THACO 10; SA Breath 
weapon) is being interviewed by two film 
critics (AC -10; MV 48"; MU 53; hp 86, 
94; ST 21, IN 18. WI 4. DE 21, CO 19. 
CH 8; #AT 1; Dmg 3dl0) for television. 
The dragon sits perched atop a small por 
tion of his horde (4,000 gp, 35 swords 
+ 1, a ring of zero wishes, and an item 
that resembles a copper piece but is actu- 
ally worth 2,000 gp). Giliwampat, who 
wears sunglasses of hipness, will gladly 
welcome any opportunities to vanquish a 
party of dungeon explorers for the TV 
cameras. 

Area 23: Pointless trick Room 

Anyone who enters this empty room is 
instantly teleported right back out into 
the hall. 


Appendix 

Random Monsters from Level 12 

Needless to say, there is a huge pro 
cession of monsters created by the Ran 
dom Monster Generator on level 12 that 
passes through Mordenkainen's terri- 
tory. 

Cutting a Deal 
With Mordenkainen 

When the players enter area 4 there is 
a possibility that Mordenkainen will see 
something he likes and offer to give the 
party members starring roles in "Fan 
tasy: The Movie" (see area 4 descrip- 
tion). 

Before giving the PCs a part in the film, 
Mordenkainen will insist on an audition. 
He will order the party members to kill 
the giant work crews in area 21 while the 
cameras roli. If the audition goes well 
(i.e., the party wins), Mordenkainen will 
offer each party member his (Strength + 
Charisma + (Experience Level x 5)) x 
1000 gp to sign a contract to appear in the 
film. If the signing goes well, the party 
members must report back to level 11 for 
the next 20 days in order to shoot the 
movie. On each day of the filming they 
will be called upon to viciously and gorily 
slay some random creatures (from the 
Random Monster Generator) for the 
cameras. 



118 






dievel 12: wheRe the 

landom monsteRS Roam 




Greyhawk Dungeon 


Scale: 1 Square = 10 Feet 


N 


Door 
Grill Gate 
Portal 
Portal Path 
Depression 


y.i./-. 




z 


Note: Read the entire adventure, espe- 
cially Voyeux's Hospitality before begin 
ning. This scenario requires extensive 
DM preparation. 

Background: Voyeux 
The Whimsical 

Several hundred years ago, Voyeux 
was an aspiring young chaotic grød tnagi- 
cian. He set out to make a name for him- 
self as an adventuring magic-user and 
succeeded very well. For the most part, 
he had a name as a tourist - an onlooker 
who got involved when the battie came 
near to him, but who preferred to ob- 
serve the antics of his companions and 
the denizens of the areas his party adven- 
tured in. Sometimes he instigated the an 


tics by angering a denizen or playing on 
the psychological weaknesses of his com 
panions to provoke a confrontation. 

Voyeux was confident that he would 
never be truly hurt. In faet, he only died 
three times in liis entire career, and each 
time he was duly brought back to the liv 
ing by surviving party members. 

Despite his antagonistic ways, Voyeux 
was quick and intelligent and never know 
ingly let his party down if they were in 
true trouble. Therefore, Vbyeux was in- 
cluded in many adventuring bands. By 
the time he had reached 21 st level, he 
had great power and a number of magical 
objects. Two of these set his path for the 
rest of his life. 

The first was a cache of longevity po 
tjons. Voyeux is still hale and hearty. look- 
ing perhaps 35 years of age, after several 


centuries of life. 

The second was the Random Monster 
Generator (his name for it). This exotic 
artifact took up a large chunk of a lower 
level of a dungeon he adventured into late 
in his career as a magic-user. 

Totally entranced by the device. Voy 
eux determined how to pry it loose from 
its moorings and bring it out to where he 
could use it. He had to return to his main 
base, reeruit a small army of helpers, and 
refight his way into the dungeon shep- 
herding a set of ingenious carts. They 
took the device apart, loaded it into the 
carts, and fought their way out again, the 
carts pulled by several adventurers who 
had taken giant strength potions. 

Once the device was his, Voyeux de 
termined to become worthy of it. He left 
it in safe-keeping with an old friend, for- 


119 














sook his magic-user career, and began to 
adventure as a thief, converting his align- 
ment to chaotic neutral in the process. 
His natural talents helped him and he 
gained the 13th level of master thief be 
fare he once again made a career change 
and began operating as an illusionist. 

Once he had reached his current level 
of Wizard 23/Master Thief 13/Illusionist 
27, Voyeux looked about and determined 
that Greyhawk Castle would be the ideal 
retirement spot for his extremely ex- 
tended old age. 

Using the Random Monster Generator, 
he called forth some burrowing creatures 
who dug him a hole to the bottom of the 
castle's dungeons. He then linked the 
various dungeon levels to his hideaway 
with portals and set the Generator on 
random generation - herding the results 
through the portals to the other levels. 

At this time, Voyeux has explored the 
entire dungeon complex. This is rela- 
tively easy when all you want to do is 
peek in and then scamper. Certain secret 
rooms and rooms heavily defended by 
trigger-happy magicians and clerics of 
high levels have been left alone, though 
he has scanned them with wizard eye if at 
all possible. 

Now he stays at ease in how own cham- 
bers in the core of his level, observing 
events throughout the dungeon (and 
elsewhere in the world) in his Tapestry' of 
Rooms and unJeashing random monsters 
to random levels to keep the life in the 
dungeon exciting and worth watching. 

Voveux the Whimsical: AC -2; MV 
12"; M/Th/I 23/13/27; hp 60; MT 1; 
Dmg by weapon: THACO 10; ST 10, IN 
18, W1 12, DX 18, CN 15. CH 13; AL 
CN. Voyeux has bracers of AC 2), (dag 
ger +1). (ring of spell tuming), (ring of 
multiple wishes (2 left), wand of fear (56 
charges) with him at all times. The re- 
mainder of his magical possessions are 
described in the Room of the Tapestry. 


Key To 

Voyeux's Domain 

Area 1: Entry Room 

The stairway from level 11 comes out 
in the west wall of this room. The room is 
entirely walled, floored and roofed in 
stone. The stone has been recently 
cleaned. There is an opening in the east 
wall, on the south comer, leading to area 
2. The only fumiture is a free-standing 
stone bench along the west wall, posi 
tioned to look into area 2. There are no 
inhabitants. 

Area 2: Guard Room 

This room is a relatively small room, 
with all but the northwest comer easily 
visible from the opening in area 1. There 
are four mantitrices in the room. 

4 Mantitrices: AC5; MV 9"; HD 6 + 1; 
hp 30,26,27,29: THACO 13: MT 3; Dmg 
Id3/ld3/ld6; Beak, TailSpikes (ld6); AL 
CE; Size L 

Mantitrices are a combination of manti- 
core and cockatrice. Unlike either of their 
progenitors, they do not fly and have no 
wings. They mainly resemble a manti- 
core, but rather than a man-like face, 
they have the cock-iike head and comb of 
a cockatrice. 

Like a cockatrice, their peck can tum a 
victim to stone. Their tail spikes (which 
seem to be stone rather than a manti- 
core's iron) can do the same thing. 

These mantitrices are on guard duty. 
Unless the first person they see is promi 
nently wearing a special amulet (Voyeux 
wears the only one known), they attack 
with their tail spikes, fired singly against 
single opponents, or all at one if the party 
has all appeared together. 

There are certain aspects of this situa 
tion which are not immedintely apparent. 
The "opening" is, in faet, a very selec- 
tive teleportation portal. Area 2 is actu- 
ally 30 feet awav through solid stone. The 
portal lets any non-living object through 
either way. Arrows, tail spikes. thrown 
knives, etc. may pass as if the opening 
was just a chunk of open air. However, 


living beings may only pass one way. from 
area 1 to area 2. Furthermore. spells do 
not pass at all through the portal. This 
does not mean that sensory spells. such 
as clain-oyance, ESP, or wizard eye do 
not work. It does mean that any Greballs, 
lightning bolts, or the like effeetively hit 
the portal and go off, filling the room with 
the party, rather than the room with the 
mantitrices. 

Unused spells, such as those residing 
in spell books, wands and staves, magic- 
users' and clerics' minds, etc. are un- 
harmed by this block, and can travel with 
the possessor to the other room. For that 
matter, wands and staves and other magi 
cal objects, being essentially unliving, can 
go back and forth through the portal. 
However. their owners cannot. Not even 
once-living beings with any hope of a suc- 
cessful raise dead can pass the wrong 
way. 

These restrictions on movement can 
each be removed with a limited wish, and 
the entire enchantment of restriction can 
be removed with a full wish. Successful 
use of dispel magic against a 23d-level 
spell destroys the entire portal. 

Of course, a party can use teleport, di 
mension door, or passwall to get around 
this problem. Voyeux does. 

Opposite the opening is an air-tight 
stone door that leads to the rest of Voy 
eux's domain. 

Area 3: Main Corridor 

This corridor connects most of the res- 
idential areas of this level. It is rough- 
hewn from bedrock, with no supporting 
beams. Very experienced adventurers 
realize that the tunnel is the sort of thing 
done by an umber hulk. There are seven 
openings in the corridor, including the 
door at the west end, leading to the guard 
room, the side corridor leading to the 
Generator, and the door at the other end 
of the corridor, leading to Voyeux's cham- 
bers. The two doors are made of stone 
and are air-tight. The corridor itself has a 
10-foot by 10-foot cross-section. 


120 









3a. The Portal 

This 10' x 10' area on the surface of 
the east wall of the corridor has a pearly 
opalescence. It is the exit portal from the 
12th Gate in the Generator area. There is 
a 1 in 12 chance (roli 1 on dl2) that a mon 
ster will exit from this portal when a party 
is next to it. 

Area 4: Side Corridor 

This corridor leads directly to the Ran 
dom Monster Generator. There is a 1 in 
12 chance (roil 1 on dl2) that a monster 
will be in the corridor when a party enters 
it or looks into it. The monster may be 
going in either direction. either coming 
from the Generator, or finding its way 
back to the Generator from the portal in 
3a. 

Area 5: Lair of the Hexacrabs 

This cave-like room has become the 
lair of the hexacrabs, totally unintelligent 
creatures that have carapaces and front 
claws like a crab, but also feature a long 
tentacle extruded from the top carapace 
and a rosette of stings surrounding the 
tentacle. 

6 Hexacrabs: AC 2; HD 6; hp 26, 27 
28.30.26.25; MV12"; THACO13: #AT 
7; 4d6 (tentacle), 8d8 (x4) (stings), 4d8 
(x2) (claws): Special Attacks - claws 
have sharpness. like a Sword of Sharp- 
ness; Truesight: AL N. 

The hexacrabs are recent additions to 
the local menagerie. They are largely in 
ert, as they have not found much to eat in 
the bare walls of the level, though they 
attack other wandering manufactured 
monsters, and the bones of these deco- 
rate the cavem floor. Their instinctual 
tactic is to grasp a target with their tenta 
cle and kill it with their claws, while fend- 
ing off any other attackers with their 
stings. 

Area 6: Lair of the Lurkboars 

This room looks like a pigsty. and the 
sounds issuing from its inhabitants rein- 
force the image. The inhabitants even 
look like pigs-rather comical ones. They 
look like nothing so much as warthogs 


with bows around their necks and dande- 
lion heads for tails. 

ESP or any other kind of mind reading 
shows that they are unintelligent food an- 
imals, obviously kept here for the satis- 
faction of other residents. One of these 
man-sized creatures may well pretend to 
take an affection for a party member and 
follow him around like a dog. 

Closer observation shows another 
story entirely. The lurkboars are a highly 
intelligent race who use their powers of 
mindlying and camouflage to seem like 
simple bamyard animals. Careful obser 
vation will spot the bones of some of their 
victims in the muck of the room. 

4 Lurkboars: AC (7)* 3; HD 18: hp 78; 
85, 90. 82; MV 9"; THACO 7; #AT 5: 
Id8/ld8 (tentacles that look like dande- 
lion heads), 4d6 (tusks that look like 
tusks); SD Immunity to Lightning, Re- 
generate 2 pts/round; Camouflage and 
Mindlie : AL CE. 

The creatures have two magical de- 
vices with them. The gem of tuming rock 
to swill is an amber stone (seemingly 
worth about 300 g.p.). now buried in the 
filth of the sty. This tums the rock around 
it into primordial ooze by basically bring- 
ing out all of the organic material imbed- 
ded in the rock. This is how they made 
the sty out of a cave in the first place, and 
why the sty has a lowered floor. Once it 
has accomplished its purpose, it lies quiet 
until placed into a new area of bare stone. 

The root of all evil is a lossilized tree 
root with a spell of suggestion enchanted 
into it (saving throw vs. spell). He who 
possesses it has an uncontrollable lust for 
money. The lurkboars have, in faet, no 
real concept of money, and the rather un- 
defined urges they experience in the 
presence of this thing have no meaning 
for them. Voyeux had the thing in his loot 
store (it made him become a thief) and 
decided that the lurkboars were the ideal 
guardians. 

The lurkboars also have 3,500 g.p., 
1,500 p.p., and 35 gemstones worth an 
average of 450 g.p. each. These are left 
over from the purses of another party of 
adventurers who made the mistake of de- 
eiding the lurkboars were dinner. 


Area 7; Doggy Den 

This cave has been converted into a 
kennel. The cave mouthis blocked with a 
wide mesh Steel gate. In the cave are six 
large (wolfhound-sized) canines with 
soulful eyes and bristly, brindled fur who 
whine dog-fashion to be released and play 
with the party. 

These are actually shockhounds. A 
shockhound has an appealing personality 
and a malevolent heart. Their mode of 
operation is to get close enough to rub up 
against a target, then shock it to death 
with their incredible static electric 
charge. 

6 Shockhounds: AC 8; HD 9; hp42, 45, 
47. 40. 43. 44; INT 2; MV 9"; THACO 
12; #AT 2; 8dl0 (contact with fur), ld6 
(tongue); Special Attacks nil; Special De- 
fense - any touch of the fur, including 
with the blade of a weapon, sends a 4dl0 
shock up the weapon to the user; Special 
Abilities - poly self (usually into very ap 
pealing dog shape) and Invisibility (when 
they want to get away); AL CE 

Close examination shows that these 
creatures have no teeth. but their 
tongues are very hard and sharp. they 
carve up their meat with the tongues and 
absorb it that way. 

If ignored by a party, the shockhounds 
go invisible and poly self themselves into 
snakes to get out of the kennel, then fol 
low the party invisibly until they have a 
chance to attack. 

Area 8: Grayhouse 

This room is lit by a luminescence 
given off by fungus on the walls. The floor 
is covered by large fungal growths that 
grow almost up to the 10-foot-high ceil- 
ing. The fungi are a riot of obscure colors. 
There are mauve, puce, lavender, and 
other pasteis; anything but a true white 
or gray color. 

Scattered among the fungi are four 
special fungi that look like attempts to ape 
normal greenhouse flowers. They have 
petals and stamens and pistils and leaves 
and stand about three feet tall. These are 
actually gray composters. 

4 Gray Composters: AC 3: HD 4; hp 


121 








17, 19. 18. 20; MV immobile; THACO 
15; MT 9; 4d8/4d8 ("fangs" - stamens 
and pistils), 3d4/3d4 (constriction from 
long leaves). 4d6 (x4) (pincer leaves); 
Special Attacks - 3 sucker "roots" that 
hold on to the victim; AL N 

These semi-intelligent fungi provide 
extra fertilizer for the other fungi in the 
room. Anything organic is grist for their 
mill, as one lurkboar found out. Their 
usual attack is to grab a victim with 
sucker roots (which negates any AC from 
Dexterity or displacement) , then attack 
with the leaves and fangs. Evidence of 
previous victims is buried under the bot- 
tom "fronds" of the various fungi. 

Area 9: Room of the Porcupains 

This is another fungus-filled room, but 
without the composters. It is also the lair 
of a group of porcupains, which look like 
harmless herbivores. They look mostly 
like porcupines or hedgehogs, and have 
not obvious inclination to attack a party 
that observes them from the corridor. 

They look rather comical, especially 
when they rear up on their hind legs and 
waddle about, trying to get at the top 
parts of the fungus. The one part of the 
creature that does not look like a porcu- 
pine is the tail, which has a large, homy, 
knob at the end. 

These creatures are porcupains, an 
evil creature that is, in faet, herbivorous, 
but likes to cause pain to others, anyway. 

4 Porcupains: AC -1; HD 15; hp 68, 
70. 74. 69; MV 12"; THACO 8; MT 3; 
4d6/4d6 (quills), 4d8 (tail); AL CE. 

Area 10; The Room of the 
Tapestry 

This room is Voyeux's private cham- 
ber. It seems to be airy and spacious, 
which is peculiar for a cave 12 levels be- 
neath Castle Greyhawk. 

In actuality. the room is 30 feet by 30 
feet. The east wall, however, has a (per 
manent) illusion of a long, 30-foot-wide 
corridor with archways leading to other 
rooms everv 10 feet on both sides. It 
seems to stretch to infinity. 

The south wall is a permanent illusion 


of a balcony looking out into a sun-filled or 
star-lit garden (this depends on the actual 
time of day outside). The far walls of the 
garden are blocked by interposed trees 
and high brush. You can only glimpse 
enough of them to know they are there, 
not how far away they are. Strange ani- 
mals lurk among the shrubberv. 

The west wall has two doors in it. One 
leads into the Random Monster Genera 
tor and is where Voyeux can control the 
creation of monsters if he wants to. The 
Controls are currently set on "random 
generation." The other door leads to the 
corridor by which the room may be en- 
tered. 

The north wall is entirely covered by 
the Tapestry o f Rooms. This Tapestry is 
an amazing artifact Voyeux stole from the 
tyrant of Elredd on Woolly Bay. The user 
of this Tapestry can see any room (or rel- 
atively enclosed outdoor space) he has 
ever been in, just by mentally command- 
ing the picture to appear. The point of 
view given is one that the viewer previ- 
ously occupied. If all the viewer has done 
is duck his head into the room and out 
again, the view is from the door of the 
room. If he is very familiar with the room 
and has walked every inch of it, the view- 
point is any that he wants. 

Like many antifacts, this one has its 
drawbacks. In this case, it is a véry subtle 
one. The viewer is more and more in- 
clined to just sit on a couch or other seat- 
ing fumiture and watch the Tapestry - 
forsaking any activity to watch what is go- 
ing on in places where the viewer has 
been before. 

The viewer has only the basest instinet 
remaining - the only time he moves is to 
obtain food. As soon as he has food in 
hånd, he races back to the Tapestry in 
hopes of not having missed any of the ac 
tivity. Even the food is not savored. It is 
just shoved into whatever eating orifice 
the viewer has and is consumed without 
any real appreciation of its nature. It is 
said that Voyeux gained the artifact by 
poisoning the tyrant who previouslv 
owned it. 

The fumishings of the room are di- 
rected toward full utilization of the Tapes 
try. Voyeux's elegant four-poster bed 


(larger than some peasant huts) is ori 
ented for the best view of the Tapestry. 
There is also a scribe's desk with ready 
writing materials so situated that Voyeux 
can command his permanent unseen ser- 
vant to write down particular facts he 
finds interesting about what he is watch- 
ing. Unseen sen'ants are rarely literate 
- being forces rather than beings - but 
this one has been around so long that it 
has obtained some sentience of its own. 
It still does not fight or otherwise hinder, 
or help. anyone but Voyeux. Due to the 
effeets of the Tapestry, Voyeux rarely 
does anything about his records, but any 
one obtaining them will find an excellent 
guide to the hazards of the other levels of 
the dungeon, and interesting snippets of 
information on other areas throughout 
the world of Greyhawk, for Voyeux trav- 
eled extensively before he settled down 
here. Among all his various careers, he 
poked his nose into places many people 
have never heard of. 

DM Note: This is for DMs who want to 
leave dues for future adventures in other 
parts of the WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) 
game world. 

In the Southwest comer of the room is 
a larder of holding that holds \byeux's 
food supply. It has a man-sized door that 
may be walked through, gi ving access to 
an area 30' x 30' x 30', stocked with 
prepared food. One of the few times Voy 
eux bestirs himself is to restock this im- 
mense larder, which he must do every 
three months or so. 

The larder of holding holds prepared food 
in a perfeet State of preservation, but re- 
jects any other substance (except the ma- 
terial the storage shelves and bins inside 
are made o0. If an inappropriate substance 
is placed inside, it reappears outside as the 
door is closed. Some dead bodies might be 
considered "prepared," such as a flash- 
fried dragon victim, and the cupboard could 
be used to preserve them until they can be 
brought to a priest capable of casting a raise 
dead spell, but mostly the cupboard is only 
useful for carrying food. It has all the bulk 
and normal weight of an empty 6' x 30" x 3' 
wooden cupboard. 

Under his bed. Voyeux keeps his trea- 
sure, accumulated over 150 years of ad- 










venturing. Much of liis hoard has gone 
over the years to support his life on this 
level, but there are still rich pickings for 
anyone crass enough to kill the wizard/ 
master thief/illusionist. 

Among the items are Voyeux's spell 
books, carefully arranged on a bookshelf 
built into the headboard of the bed. There 
are six books of magic-user spells and 
four books of illusionist magic. For some- 
one of Xfoyeux's experience, it is easier to 
list the spells the books do not contain. 

Cantrips: chili, dampen, salt, tie, hairy, 
sour, giggie. gnats 

Level 1: buming hånds, erase, push, 
precipitadon, ventriloquism 
Level 2: Qaming sphere, Melf s acid ar- 
row, pyrotechnics, strength 
Level 3: explosive runes, fireball, 
flame arrow. Melf s minute meteor 
Level 4: Evard's black tentacles, åre 
trap, wall o f åre 

Level 5: airy water, stone shape. 
Level 6: condngency, globe of invul- 
nerability, stone to åesh 
Level 7: cacodemon, delayed biast åre- 
ball, statue 


Level 8: incendiary cloud, Otto s irre- 
sisdble dance, trap the soul 
Level 9: Bigby's crushmg hånd, cry- 
stalbrittle, meteor swarm, shape change, 
succor, dme stop 

As one can see, Voyeux has no real af- 
finity for fire magic or transformations on 
or to rock. 

Illusionist spells: 

Cantrips: all present, 

Level 1: color spray, light, wall of fog 
Level 2: deafness, detect magic, invisi- 
bility, magic mouth, mirror image, 

Level 3: condnual light, rope trick, 
phantom wind. suggestion 
Level 4: conåision, dispel magic, mass- 
morph, rainbow pattem, 

Level 5: major creation, maze, shadow 
magic 

Level 6: death fog, mirage arcane. 
phantasmagoria, 

Level 7: lst-level magic-user spells 


Under the bed. Voyeux has: 

(1) a small chest with Dve potions of 
extra- healing, three elixirs ofhealth, and 
four applications of oil o(disenchantment. 
He also has his last four potions of longev- 
ity, which he doesn't mention to visitors. 

(2) In a five-slot scroll holder, he has a 
scroll of protection tom magical edged 
weapons, a scroll o f protection tom pa 
ralysis, scroll o f protection tom undead, 
scroll of protection tom demons, and a 
scroll of protection tom elementals. 

(3) In a larger trunk he has a small ring 
box with a ring of djinni summoning 
(three uses left) and a ring of spell 
stoiing, a periapt of proof against poison 
wrapped in a robe of blending, a rod of 
portal creation which was used for creat- 
ing al) the various portals on this and 
other levels (it has three charges left, 
each capable of creating an entrance and 
an exit), and a sword case holding a bas 
tard sword + 3 frostbrand (INT 15, EGO 
16. AL CN, detects shifting walls, eleva 
tors, etc. in 1" radius, detects gems, de 
tects precious metals, speaks dwarf, 
gnome, kobold, gold dragon). Its name is 


123 








Deepdelver and, once exposed, it tells 
the world how it has been used by thieves 
(including Vbyeux). dwarves, and greedy 
humans and it has loved every minu te. 

In a money chest, Voyeaux has a jew- 
elry case with four items of jewelry worth 
1,500 g.p., 4,600 g.p., 5,200 g.p., and 
8,000 g.p., 13 gems worth an average of 
550 g.p.. 2.000 p.p., and 15,000 g.p. 

Voyeux's Hospitality 

If any party makes it to Voyeux's domi- 
cile, and does not charge in swinging, he 
welcomes them effusively and congratu- 
lates them on their feat. He also jokes 
with them about any mishaps they had on 
the way. Any party member looking at 
the Tapesur can see the corridor outside 
the room. Anyone looking at the desk 
sees a pen writing down (in shorthand) 
the conversation as it takes place. Any 
one looking down the archwav behind his 
bed sees. in the distance, indistinct hu- 
manoid shapes looking at them from 
around various pillars. Looking at the 
garden over the balcony, they see indis 
tinct monstrous shapes moving in the 
garden. 

Vbyeux offers them food from his lar- 
der of holding, mentioning that he just got 
a fresh supply from Colonel Sandpaper on 
the 8th level. Characters who have sur- 
vived both the 3d and 8th levels should 
find some familiar elements in the repast. 

If any characters have suffered great 
loss in the adventure, Voyeux does what 
he can with the potions of extra- healing), 
(elixir of health. and oil of disen- 
chantment. He does not use the last use 
of any of these. He also may hånd out 
some of the magical items that he has ac- 
cumulated and no longer has much use 
for, if a character has lost a major item. 

However, as he talks to the characters, 
they note that he is constantly looking at 
the TapesUy and acting as if he wishes 
they would just go away. Anyone looking 
at the Tapestry sees the scene change a 
number of times, either reflecting what is 
going on on upper levels or, if the charac 
ters have effectively wiped out all the 
previous levels, showing events in other 
places in the game world. There may be 


at least one scene that cleariy demon- 
strates to the characters that the Thpes- 
Uy is showing what is happening at the 
player's home base for example. 

Voyeux has no interest in letting the 
characters have the tapestry, letting the 
characters have the Random Monster 
Generator, or spending any time at all 
away from the TapesUy. He's quite proud 
of both artifacts and likes to brag about 
them, explaining everything he knows 
about them. 

If threatened, Voyeux makes an escape 
using dimension door to the inside of the 
Random Monster Generator and begins 
sending monsters at the characters. All 
these monsters have an INT of at least 8, 
AC of 0 or less. Hit Dice of at least 13, 
and at least one special attack, one spe 
cial defense, and one special ability. The 
rest of their attributes can be rolied ran- 
domly, or adjusted to avoid the strengths 
and exploit the deficiencies of the charac 
ters. Be sure to have a half dozen of 
these monsters ready to go before the 
adventure. A new monster arrives every 
combat round. 

Voyeux also has a full complement of 
spells ready both as mage and illusionist. 
Which he has ready and which he uses de- 
pends on the DM, who has seen the play- 
ers at work earlier, just as Voyeux has. 

Area 11: The Random Monster 
Generator 

This complex consists of a grid of corri- 
dors surrounding the central device. At 
the areas shown on the map, there are 
10'-by-10' squares of pearly opalescence 
on the walls. These are the entrance por 
tals to the exit portals described on other 
levels of this dungeon. 

Many of the entrance portals have dis- 
criminatory mechanisms that prohibit any 
but the proper sort of creature to walk 
through them. Others are wide open to 
anyone, even an adventurer, walking 
through. If a level has been destroyed, or 
the main impetus behind its theme 
stopped, the prohibitions also end. It is 
entirely possible for a party to finish its 
business on this level and simply step 
through the portal to the 4th level (the 


first with no real prohibitions) and then 
make their way home from there. 

lla. Portal To lst Level 

This only allows low-tevel monsters 
entrance. This can include creatures with 
either high ACs, high damage attacks, or 
high hit dice, but no more than one of 
these attributes. 

llb. Portal to 2d Level 

This portal allows only evil creatures 
with relatively weak abilities to enter. 

1 lc. Portal to 3d Level 

This portal allows nothing to enter. It 
only serves as a conveyance of the es- 
sence of the Generator to help create the 
strange things that prowl that level. 

l ld. Portal to 4th Level 

Anything can walk through this portal, 
and often does. 

l le. Portal to 5th Level 

Creatures that go through this portal 
are often ones that look like they stepped 
into the wrong game. 

llf. Portal to 6th Level 

Only creatures that share some, or all, 
their abilities and attitudes with tradi 
tional undead can transit this portal. 

lig. Portal to 7th Level 

Anything can step through this portal. 

1 lh. Portal to 8th Level 

Most things walking through this portal 
tend to be edible and look like fast food 
products. Their outward appearance is 
frequently that of various traditional 
slimes or puddings. 

llj. Portal to 9th Level 

Almost anything walks through this 
level's portal. 

llk. Portal to lOth Level 

Because this leads to a sewage level, 
the monsters going through this portal 
tend to be scavengers of one sort or an- 
other, capable of eating anything. 















111. Portal to llth Level 

Due to the stringent requirements of 
"Fantasy: The Movie," only monsters 
with a minimum Intelligence of 6 are al- 
lowed through. 

lim. Portal to 12th Level 

This allows creatures to come out of 
the portal exit at 3a. on this level. They 
generally wander around corridors 3 and 
4 for awhile, then wander back to the 
Generator and take another portal. Some 
exitees have found tenants in areas 5 
through 9 and displaced them. The most 
recent group to do this are the hexa- 
crabs. 

Inside the 

Random Monster Generator 

This strange device consists of a large 
room with odd metal grids, finely drawn 
wire connections, and small flashing 
lights. There is evidence that the entire 
object has been taken apart relatively re 
cently (within the last couple of centu- 
ries) and reassembled without any real 
regard for making the reassembly look 
pretty. Many of the supporting members 
have been roughly sawn apart and recon- 
nected with very perfunctory welds. 

Three of the doors to the room holding 
the artifact are blocked entirely by fields 
of pearly opalescence. No one can walk 
past these fields. However, one door is 
not blocked, allo wing some access into 
the artifact. 

Some things, however, walk out of the 
fields into the corridors outside the 
rooms. Usually, these are monstrous 
creatures never before seen in this 
world. They are mostly dumb beasts that 
are easily herded down the corridors and 
into the stairwells or portals that lead 
them to other levels. Some are more in 
telligent, and cause some strange prob 
lems. Usually, Voyeux comes to an 
agreement with them, and they fre- 
quently also march off to another level. 
Some are still in residence in Voyeux's 
level (see areas 5 through 9.) 

How the device manages to get the 
creatures it creates is a mystery. Voyeux 
feels that they are probably denizens of 


millions of other worlds that the machine 
reaches into and brings out, but Voyeux 
really doesn't know. Neither do the mon 
sters. 

Conversation with some of these vic- 
tims of the machine's outreach program 
confirms that they think they come from 
some other world, but their believed past 
histories might just be a further creation 
of the artifact. 

Voyeux does know how to control the 
Random Monster Generator to get just 
the monster he wants; however, he usu 
ally leaves it set to generate random cre- 
ations. 

Wandering Monsters 

New creatures come out of the Ran 
dom Monster Generator every hour or 
so. Unless drawn instinctively to a level 
best suited for it, the creature wanders 
around a bit and finally finds a portal it is 
attracted to. For the first six hours or so 
of their existence, most inductees do not 
attack anyone who does not attack them 
first, but there are still the remains of 
several creatures who died fighting other 
creatures littering the halls. Thus, it is 
likely that there are at least five monsters 
or groups of monsters in the corridors at 
any one time. 

Every five minutes the party is in the 
level, roli to see if a monster is gener- 
ated. If they are in the Generator area it- 
self. roil for a 1 on ld6 to get a monster 
every time they tum a comer until you 
get one. 

Battie with such a monster (keep in 
mind that they can come in groups) can 
produce another monster with a roil of 1 
or 2 on ld6 after each round of combat. If 
five monsters or groups are produced in 
this fashion, stop rolling, they've all 
showed up. Of course, you can always 
add the inhabitants of the various rooms, 
too. Voyeux will not come out to see 
what's happening. That's what he has the 
Tapestry for. 


Using the 

Random Monster Generator 

To determine what sort of creature has 
been brought forth on an unsuspecting 
dungeon. take up percentile dice. 

Any time the monster's power is de- 
scribed as being like a particular spell, the 
monster can be assumed to have unre- 
stricted use of the spell, rather than just 
one use a day, unless the DM wishes to 
so restrict it. 

I. Size and Number of Monsters 

01 Tiny (1-100) 

02-15 Small (1-20) 

16-85 Man-sized (1-10) 

86-99 Large (1-6) 

00 Gargantuan (1-2) 

Explanation: ''Tiny" means something 
insect-sized or smaller. 

"Small," "Man-Sized," and "Large" 
are the same as found in the Monster 
Manual 

"Gargantuan" refers to something the 
size of a brontosaurus or a blue whale. 

II. Looks 

01 Indescribable 

02-25 Hideous 
26-35 Hilarious 
36-95 Average 
96-00 Beautiful 

Explanation: Indescribable means what 
it says. The shape and form and colors of 
the creature are impossible to describe, 
usually because it is too horrifying. 

Hideous means that it is unpleasant to 
look at, but not impossible 

Hilarious means that the creature is 
very funny looking. This can disguise an 
extremely deadly monster, so don't be 
afraid to have an AC -5, energy- 
draining, death spell-using. 20 Hit Dice 
cream puff. 

Average covers a lot of sins. An orc or 
troll can be considered average by this 
definition 

Beautiful 'is positively awe-inspiring. 


125 








III. Intelligence 


V. Armor Class 


VII. Move 


01-15 

0 

01-05 

9 

16-40 

1 

06-10 

8 

41-45 

2 

11-15 

7 

4648 

3 

16-20 

6 

49-51 

4 

21-25 

5 

52-54 

5 

26-30 

4 

55-57 

6 

31-37 

3 

58-60 

7 

38-44 

2 

61-64 

8 

45-50 

1 

65-68 

9 

51-60 

0 

69-73 

10 

61-70 

-1 

74-78 

11 

71-80 

-2 

79-83 

12 

81-84 

-3 

84-86 

13 

85-87 

-4 

87-89 

14 

88-90 

-5 

90-92 

15 

91-93 

-6 

93-95 

16 

94-96 

-7 

96-97 

17 

97-99 

-8 

98-99 

18 

00 

-9 

00 

19 + 





VI. Hit Dice 

Explanation: These numbers correspond 
with those found in the Monster Manual 

01-05 

06-07 

ld8 

2d8 

IV. Alignment 

08-09 

10-12 

3d8 

4d8 

01-05 

Lawful Good 

13-16 

5d8 

06-10 

Lawful Neutral 

17-20 

6d8 

11-15 

Lawful Evil 

21-25 

7d8 

16-35 

Chaotic Good 

26-30 

8d8 

36-55 

Chaotic Neutral 

31-35 

9d8 

56-75 

Chaotic Evil 

3640 

10d8 

76-80 

Neutral Good 

4145 

lld8 

81-85 

Neutral Neutral 

46-50 

12d8 

86-90 

Neutral Evil 

51-58 

13d8 

91-00 

Hungry 

59-66 

14d8 


67-75 

15d8 

Explanation: Hungry simply means 

76-83 

16d8 

that the creature has only satisfying its 

84-90 

17d8 

appetites in mind. 

91-96 

18d8 



97-99 

19d8 



00 

20d8 


Ground Speed 

01-05 Immobile 
06-10 1" 

11-20 3" 

21-40 6" 

41-65 9" 

66-90 12" 

91-99 15" 

00 18" 

Airspeed (30% chance) 

01-25 15" 

26-50 18" 

51-70 21" 

71-85 24" 

86-95 30" 

96-99 36" 

00 40" 

Special Movement 
(25% chance) 

01-20 dimension door (as the spell) 
21-30 dimension walk (as psionic disci- 
pline) 

31-50 ethereaJ 
51-65 leap 

66-80 teleport (as the spell) 

81-95 tunnel 

96-00 wind walk (as the spell) 

U se the Ground Speed table to deter- 
mine the distance moved with Ethereal, 
Leap or Tunnel. 

VIII. Number of Types of 
Attacks 

01-25 1 
26-65 2 
66-85 3 
86-95 4 
96-00 5 


EX. Number of Attacks Per Type 

01-40 1 
41-85 2 
86-95 3 
96-98 4 
99 5 
00 6 


126 








X. Types of Attack 

01-65 Physical 
66-00 Special 

XI. Special Attacks 

01-05 Acid 
06-09 Aging 
10-15 Breath 
16-18 Cancellation 
19-23 Clerical Spells (ld6) 

24-30 Cold 

31-40 Heat 

41-45 Life Draining 

46-50 Lightning 

51-55 Magical Spells 

56-60 Paralysis 

61-65 Poison 

66-68 Presence 

69-74 Psionic Attacks (ld4) 

75-77 Rusting 
78-79 Sharpness 

80-82 Slow 
83-87 Sonic 
88-92 Suckers 
93-97 Visual 
98 Vorpal 
99-00 Wounding 

Explanation: Except as shown on the 
Special Attack Effects Table. the Special 
Attack does damage according to the 
Damage Per Attack table. 

XI.A. Special Attack Effects 

Attack Effect 

Aging As Staff of Withering 

Cancellation As Rod of CanceUadon, 

but always works 

Life-Draining ld3 life levels as Undead 
Paralysis As Ghoul 

Rusting As Rust Monster 

Sharpness As Sword of Sharpness* 

Slow As Stone Golem 

Spells Pick those that seem ap- 

propriate 

Sucker Holds victim with Ogre 

Strength 

Vorpal As Vorpal Weapon* 

Wounding As Sword of Wounding* 


Attacks table to determine how much 
damage the attack does if the special ef 
fect does not work. 

XI.B. Breath Attacks 

01-05 Acid 
06-15 Chlorine gas 
16-30 Cold 
31-40 Fear gas 
41-55 Fire 
56-65 Lightning 
66-70 Paralysis 
71-80 Repulsion 

81-90 Sleep gas 
91-00 Slow gas 

All breath attacks are treated as the 
similar dragon breath attack. 

XI.C. Poison Types 

(See DMG, Pg. 20) 

01-10 Ingestive/lnjected A 
11-20 Ingestive/lnjected B 
21-35 Ingestive/lnjected C 
36-50 Ingestive/lnjected D 
51-60 Ingestive/lnjected E 
61-70 Insinuated A 
71-80 Insinuated B 

81- 90 Insinuated C 

91- 00 Insinuated D 

XI.D. Presence Attacks 

01-18 Charm 

19-48 Disease (10-100') radius) 

49-88 Fear 

89-98 Repulsion (as spell) 

99-00 Worship 

XI.E. Sonic Attacks 

01-40 Biasting (as Horn) 

41-80 Deafening (10% permanent) 

81 Death (as Power Word KilD 

82- 91 Disintegrate (as spell) 

92- 00 Unbalance (10% permanent) 


XI. F. Visual Attacks 

01-04 Blindness (as Power World Blind 
spell) 

05-24 Charm (as vampire) 

25- 29 Confusion (as spell) 

30- 39 Death (as spell) 

40- 49 Fear (as spell) 

50- 54 Feeblemind (as spell) 

55- 64 Life Energy Draining 
65-69 Paralysis 

70- 99 Stoning (as basilisk) 

00 Tune Stop (as spell) 

XII. Number Of Special Defenses 
(25% chance) 

01-40 1 Special Defense 

41- 70 2 Special Defenses 

71- 90 3 Special Defenses 
91-00 4 Special Defenses 

XII.A. Types Of Special Defense 

01-30 Camouflage 

31- 50 Immunity 

51- 70 Magic Resistance (01-100%) 

71- 80 Mindlie 

81-95 Regeneration (ld3 pts per 
round) 

96-00 Spell Tuming (as ring) 

XH.B. Immunity Table 

01-10 Charms and Holds 
11-20 Cold 
21-25 Confusion 

26- 29 Detects 
30-39 Fear 
40-49 Fire 
50-55 Lightning 

56- 60 Magical Devices 
61 Magical Weapons 
62-66 Normal Weapons 
67-71 Psionics 

72- 76 Sonics 

77-79 Spells. magic user 
80-83 Spells, clerical 
84-85 Spells, all 
86-95 Stoning 

96-00 Wands, Rods and Staves 


* Go back to Physical Attacks table to 
determine mode of attack and Damage of 


127 










Xin. Number Of Special Abilities 

01-50 1 Special Ability 
51-85 2 Special Abilities 
86-00 3 Special Abilities 

XIII. A. Special Abilities 

01-05 Haste 

06-15 Invisibility 

16-20 Passwall (as the spell) 

21-30 Phantasraal forces 
31-40 Polymorph self 
41-55 Silence 
56-70 Special Sense. 1 
71-80 Special Senses, 2 
81-85 Special Senses. 3 
86-90 Telekinesis 
91-00 Telepathy 

Xm.B Special Senses 

01-05 Clairvoyance 
06-10 Clairaudience 
11-15 Detect astral 
16-30 Detect ethereaJ 
31-35 Detect gems 
36-40 Detect gold 
41-50 Detect illusion 
51-60 Detect invisible 
61-70 Detect metals 
71-85 ESP 
86-95 Locate object 
96-00 True sight 

XIV. Shape 

This is not a random table, because by 
now the monster creator should have 
some idea of what the critter looks like. 
Remember that the various levels some- 
times have requirements for the mon 
sters that go to them. so look for features 
that can be adapted into looking like what- 
ever seems likely to be suitable for levels 
with restrictions. 


DM Notes 

Use of the Random Monster 
Generator Tables 

DMs must realize that some monsters 
found on this table are going to be totally 
unplayable. Feel no compunction about 
discarding a monster and rolling a new 
one. Altemately. feel free to change the 
monster, or set up special criteria for 
some of the categories and just randomly 
assess the rest of them. 


Considering the special attributes of 
other levels of this dungeon, be sure to 
look at monsters for their applicability to 
being described as food, or a game piece. 
or a defective monster, etc., and be sure 
to shuffle them off to those levels to keep 
up the spirit of the situation. 

For playing this adventure, be sure to 
pre-roll lots of monsters from the random 
monsters table for Vbyeux to call on for 
his defense. Conjuring up a monster from 
this table in the middle of a game slows 
down the game unacceptably. 



128 








































Advanced Du n3eons£rpra3on s * 

ORLOof GRÅ'" Id W1 



' Fantasy World Adventure 


Castle Greyhawk 


Deep beneath the keep of Castle Greyhawk, a 
really nasty device is creating all these gross, 
mutated, and unpleasant monsters that are 
running wild throughout the castle and the 12- 
level dungeon beneath the castle. The call has 
gone out for heroic, fearless, and kinda foolish 
adventurers tp out-hack. out-slaslv$nd some- 
times even out-think hordes of doucjhmen. 
headless mice, manic bee queens, really bad 
dead things, burgei;mn, crazed chefs, and 
movie moguls. If they iurvive these and much 
odder obstacles, the chardcters still have to 
find the nasty moneter crpator and put it out of 
business. 

Castle Greyhawk contains 13 detailed levels 
for adventuring and exploration. Each level is a 
separate adventuré written by a different au- 
thor and each has its own unique brand of in- 
sane an^.baffling wei-rdness. Some levels 
involve solving puzzlt&and Some requiregood 
old hacking and slashing. "JJie adventures can 
be played separately or all together as a grand 
qu^st to free Castle Greyhawk from the evil, 
rotten hordes that are piaguing it. The'torn- 
mon theme of this dungeon is that no joke is so 
old, no pun is s6 bad, and no schtick is so obvi- 
ous that it can't be used to confuse and trip up 

PCs! 

< 

13' Adventures for Character-Levels 0 to 25 


I98fc TSR. Inc. All Right* Resefved. Printed In U.S.A. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB756 
Lake Ceneva. 

Wl 53147 USA 


TSR UK Ud. 
The Mili, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14Ab O 
S j" United Kfngdom 


ISBN 0-88038 ^jd-B 






















