Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09143 B 9 Castle Caldwell & Beyond"
See other formats
For character levels 1-3 


TSR, Inc. 

PROOUCTS or YOUR IMAGINATIC 

DUNGEONS & DRAQONS. D&£>. PRODUCTS OPVotlR IMAGINATION, jnd 


ks owned by TSR, Inc, 



.iv _ 









r /J.'v 





JjK W 

^ A 


Hk^. * J\y 























Basic Game Adventure 



Castle Caldwell and Beyond 

Harry W. Nuckols 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION . 2 

The Clearing of Castle Caldwell. 4 

Dungeons of Terror. 8 

The Abduction of Princess Sylvia . 13 

The Great Escape . 18 

The Sanctuary of Elwyn the Ardent . 25 

LIST OF MAPS, CHARTS AND PLAYING AIDS 

M AP 1: Castle Caldwell, Ground Level . 5 

M AP 2: Castle Caldwell, Dungeon Level . 10 

MAP 3: Treasure Map. 12 

MAP 4: Riddle . 12 

MAP 5: Fortress of Oliver of Horn. 15 

MAP 6: Enemy Outpost . 21 

MAP 7: Sanctuary of Elwyn the Ardent . 27 

MAP 8: Treasure Map #1 . 29 

MAP 9: Treasure Map #2 . 31 

Master Encounter Table.Inside Cover 


Adventure for character levels 1-3 


9143 


Editor: Michael S. Dobson 
Graphic Designer: Ruth Hoyer 
Cover Artist: Clyde Caldwell 
Interior Artist: Doug Watson 
Cartographer: Diesel 
Typographer: Betty Elmore 


(c) 1985 TSR, Inc 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D. PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, and Ihe TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR. 
Inc. 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random 
House, Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Dis 
tributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the mail- 
rial or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written 
permission of TSR. Inc. 


TSR. Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
W I 53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The M ill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION(tm) 


ISBN 0-88038-200-7 



















INTRODUCTION 


The five adventures in this module are 
designed for a party of four to eight player 
characters of levels 1-3. The adventures are 
arranged in order of increasing difficulty. 
Each adventure is designed to be played in 
one session of three to four hours, not includ 
ing the time needed to roll up new characters. 

The first two adventures are connected, 
the other three are not. They can be used as a 
series of adventures for a single party, with all 
characters beginning at first level, or they can 
be used independently. It is not necessary to 
use the same Dungeon Master or the same 
group of player characters for all five adven 
tures. 

If a party of player characters completes all 
five adventures as a series, each character 
should reach at least third level (higher if you 
plan to move on to the D&D(r) Expert Set), 
and the players themselves should become 
quite familiar with the game, if they are not 
already. Of course, some of the players' first 
characters may not survive all five adven 
tures, but this, too, can be a learning experi 
ence... 

Your players can either use existing charac 
ters or roll up new ones, using the character 
generation procedures in the D&D(r) Basic 
Rules. Encourage the players to choose a 
wide variety of character classes. Many situa 
tions throughout these adventures assume 
that there is at least one cleric or magic-user 
able to read a scroll or use a magic item of 
some kind. 

The adventures in this module assume that 
at least the DM (and preferably the players as 
well) is familiar with the entire D&D(r) Basic 
Set. To make the game run smoothly, the DM 
needs to know the rules thoroughly. If you 
don't know all the rules by heart yet, at least 


know where to look things up quickly. Other 
wise, the game can bog down while you are 
looking up some rule or spell. 

It is quite useful (but not absolutely neces 
sary) if you are also familiar with the D&D(r) 
Expert Set. Some of the monsters and trea 
sures found here arc described more fully in 
that game. 

A good DM not only knows the rules, he or 
she knows when to break them. Don't be a 
slave to the dice if they get too far out of line 
with common sense. But don't let your game 
become a giveaway campaign, either! The 
best kind of D&D(r) game is challenging for 
the players, but not so difficult that the party 
is easily wiped out. 

When you are confronted with some 
strange situation that is not exactly covered 
by the rules, you may have to improvise. 
Sometimes you may have to invent new or 
special rules to cover the unforseen. There's 
nothing wrong with that, as long as you are 
consistent. 

The monster encounters in this module are 
designed to be a challenge for four to eight 
low-level player characters. If your group is 
small and all are first level, you might reduce 
the number or strength of the monsters to 
give your party a fighting chance. If your 
group is large and has members of third or 
higher levels, you might make the monsters a 
bit tougher. 

If you raise or lower the number or 
strength of the monsters, adjust the treasure 
in the same manner. 

As DM, it is your responsibility to prepare 
yourself. First, read each adventure com 
pletely several times, making notes about the 
more difficult encounters. Think about how 
you might act if you were a player in this 


adventure, and how you would deal with the 
challenges presented here. Second, make any 
changes necessary to bring this module in line 
with your existing campaign, if you have one, 
or adapt it to fit the style of your game. 
Finally, prepare any special aids that you 
think might enhance the game for the play 
ers, such as encounter maps in proper minia 
ture scale. 

Once you've done all that, you're ready to 
challenge your players and create an exciting 
D&D(r) game adventure! 

Statistics for all monsters and creatures 
encountered in this adventure are provided on 
the Master Encounter Chart on the inside 
cover. The information is keyed to adventure 
and room, so all the information you need is 
in one single place. 

The room descriptions are given in boxed 
format. When your party first approaches a 
room, read ahead to know what they will 
encounter. The copy inside the box is 
designed to be read aloud when the charac 
ters first enter the room. You may have to 
modify the information slightly if, for exam 
ple, the party enters by a different door than 
the one assumed in the copy. Below the boxed 
copy is special information for the DM, 
including descriptions of monsters, traps, 
tricks, treasure, or other information about 
the room. You may end up revealing some, 
none, or all of this information, depending on 
the actions of the players. 

Some, but not all, of these adventures have 
wandering monsters listed for them. A wan 
dering monster table is given at the beginning 
of each adventure that uses them. Roll the 
dice as indicated to see when and if a wander 
ing monster encounter occurs. 


2 





THE CLEARING OF CASTLE CALDWELL 



Background 

Clifton Caldwell, a local merchant, has 
recently purchased a small castle, located a 
few miles out of town. The castle had not 
been occupied for some time. Clifton had 
purchased the castle for a ridiculously high 
price, since he had always wanted to own 
one. But when he went to visit his new home, 
he found that it was overrun by monsters! He 
was lucky to escape with his life. 

He has hired a party of adventurers (the 
player characters) to rid the castle of its mon 
strous inhabitants so that he can move in. 

Notes for the Dungeon Master 

If you wish, you can roleplay Clifton's negoti 
ations with the player characters for clearing 
out the castle. Although Clifton is wealthy, he is 
a shrewd bargainer, and initially offers the 
characters 100 gold pieces apiece, in addition, 
of course, to all the treasure they find. If 
pressed, he grudgingly increases his offer, but 
in no case offers more than 250 gp apiece. If 
you don't want to roleplay the initial bargain 
ing, just tell the players that their characters 
will receive 100 gp apiece. Half the money is 
given in advance; the remainder when the 
castle is cleared out. 

The characters should be given ample 


opportunity to purchase supplies and equip 
ment with the money they have on hand. 

Clifton takes the characters to the castle, and, 
if asked, furnishes them with a map of the out 
side of the castle (trace the outline of the castle 
on Map 1, and give it to the players.) You can 
place wandering monster encounters in the forest 
surrounding the castle if you wish. 

All the rooms on the first level of the castle 
have windows, so the party will not need 
light. The windows are too high for monsters 
to look out, and too high and narrow for the 
party to climb through. The hallway is lit by 
skylights similar to those found in rooms 3, 5, 
14, and 18. The walls, ceilings, and floors 
(except for room 31) are made of stone. The 
doors are all made of heavy oak, but are 
unlocked and open easily unless otherwise 
stated. The ceiling in all rooms are about 10 
feet high, except for the four tower rooms at 
the corners (rooms 6, 12, 20, and 26), where 
they are about 25 feet high. 

Except for those monsters that are living 
together, the monsters don't form a group. 
They happen to be using this otherwise- 
abandoned castle by chance. If one of the 
intelligent monsters should happen to dis 
cover the party without being detected, it will 
probably attempt to flee with its life and as 
much treasure as it can manage. 


Wandering Monsters 

There arc four goblins wandering the hall 
ways. They arc armed with short bows and 
daggers. Roll 1 d6 every turn that the party is 
in the hallway. On a roll of 1, the goblins 
appear coming around the nearest corner. 

The goblins are cautious, but not necessarily 
hostile. Roleplay their actions based on the 
situation and the actions of the party. Use the 
Monster Reaction Chart on p. 22 of the 
Dungeon Masters Rulebook to determine how 
the goblins act. 

The goblins live with the rest of their kind 
in room 2, They are carrying 6 ep, 7 ep, 10 ep, 
and 3 ep, respectively. 

The adventure begins with the party standing 
outside the double doors leading into the cas 
tle. The doors are unlocked, and swing open 
easily... 

1. ABANDONED DINING ROOM 


This room appears to have once been used 
as a dining room. There are tables and 
benches scattered throughout the room, 
many turned on their sides or upside down, 
Everything is covered with cobwebs. 


3 
















THE CLEARING OF CASTLE CALDWELL 


The room is empty of monsters, but there is a 
large sack under one of the tables. The party 
will find it if they take a turn to search the 
room. The sack contains 500 sp and three 
gems, one worth 300 gp and two worth 50 gp 
each. The gems cannot be seen unless the 
contents of the sack are dumped out. 

2. GUARDROOM 

If the party listens at the door before opening 
it, they hear sounds of an argument in a 
strange language. If any characters under 
stand the goblin tongue, they realize that 
there are goblins in the room arguing about 
splitting up their loot. When the party opens 
the door... 


You see four small humanoids, each 
armed with a short sword. They are argu 
ing with each other, evidently over two 
large piles of coins on the floor. 


The room is inhabited by four goblins, each 
armed with a short sword. A treasure of 3,000 
cp, 4,000 sp, and one gem worth 50 gp is sit 
ting on the floor, sorted roughly into two 
piles. The goblins will fight ferociously to 
defend their treasure. 

In addition to the treasure on the floor, the 
goblins carry 4 ep, 7 ep, 8 ep, and 7 ep, 
respectively, in their pockets. 

3. BEDROOM 

NOTE: The traders in rooms 3, 4, and 5 want 
to save their treasure and their lives. They 
prefer to deal with the party rather than fight. 
For example, they might be willing to trade 
information about the other monsters in the 
castle in return for being allowed to leave in 
peace. The traders are using the castle as a 
temporary residence far from their homes. 


You see a man armed with a shortsword 
lying on a bed. 


The room is lit by a skylight in the northeast 
corner of the room that lets in the light, but 
not the rain. The man lying on the bed is a 
human trader armed with a shortsword. He is 
allied with the traders in rooms 4 and 5. If he 
is in trouble, he pounds on the east wall with 
the butt of his sword to call the others. 
Similarly, he will respond to a signal from 
room 4 by first alerting the trader in room 5 
and then going to his friend's aid. He has a 
large pouch with 8 gp and 20 sp in it. 


4. BEDROOM 


You see a man lying on a bed. He is armed 
with an axe. There is a door at the far end 
of the room. On either side of the door are 
windows high up on the wall. 


See the note for room 3. The man lying on the 
bed is a human trader armed with an axe + 1. 
He is allied with the traders in rooms 3 and 5. 
If he is in trouble, he pounds on either the east 
or west wall to alert his fellows. Similarly, he 
will respond to a signal from either room 3 or 5 
by first alerting the other trader and then going 
to his friend's aid. He has a small pouch with 
three gems (worth 60 gp, 40 gp, and 10 gp) in 
it. 

5. BEDROOM 


You see a man lying on a bed. He is armed 
with a short sword. 


See the note for room 3. The man lying on the 
bed is a human trader armed with a 
shortsword. He is allied with the traders in 
rooms 4 and 5. If he is in trouble, he pounds 
on the east wall to alert his fellows. Similarly, 
he will respond to a signal from room 4 by 
first alerting the trader in room 3 and then 
going to his friend's aid. He has no treasure. 
This room is lit by a skylight identical to the 
one in room 3. 

6. TOWER ROOM 


You see a circular room, about 40 feet in 
diameter, with eight openings spaced evenly 
about the outside wall. The windows extend 
from about waist height to about head 
height for a normal human. These are obvi 
ously ports through which arrows can be 
fired. The room appears to be empty. 


The room is empty. 

7. UTILITY ROOM 


The east wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. The room 
appears to be empty except for a statue of a 
shepherd in the northeast corner. 


The statue is made of stone. If there is a lawful 
character in the party when it enters the room, 
the statue says, "Greetings. May I help you?" 
The statue is able to answer questions about the 
castle and its inhabitants. It will answer 


truthfully any three questions put to it by lawful 
characters once per day. It will not respond at all 
to characters of other alignments, and after it has 
answered a total of three questions in any one 
day, it will not respond at all until 24 hours have 
passed. The statue has 100 hit points. If it is hit 
by an edged weapon, there is a 15% chance that 
the weapon will break (5% chance for magical 
weapons). A broken edged weapon is forever 
useless. 

8. STOREROOM 


The east wall of this room has a ledge about 
seven feet from the floor. There are two 
small windows above the ledge. Except for 
some trash on the floor, the room appears to 
be empty. 


Except for the trash on the floor (which is 
worthless), the room is empty. 

9. STOREROOM 


The . 

east w 

all of 

this 

room has a 

ledge 

about 

seven 

feet from the floor. There are 

two 

small 

w indc 

IWS 

above the 

ledge. 

Except for 

some 

trash 

on the floor, the 

| room 

appears to be 

empty. 



Except for the trash on the floor (which is 
worthless), the room is empty. 

10. STOREROOM 


The east wall of this room has a ledge about 
seven feet from the floor. There are two 
small windows above the ledge. Except for 
two long tables along the south wall, the 
room appears to be empty. As you enter the 
room, you hear the sound of small wings. 


The ledge in this room is used as a nesting 
area by three stirges. The sound that the party 
hears is the sound of the stirges flying to attack. 
The party has a normal chance to be 
surprised by the stirges, but the stirges cannot 
be surprised. 

A flying stirge gains a bonus of + 2 on its 
first hit roll against any opponent because of 
its speed in the air. Any successful hit by a 
stirge means that the stirge has attached itself 
to the victim. Each round after the first hit, 
the stirge automatically inflicts 1-3 points of 
damage (blood drain) until either it or its vic 
tim is dead. If the victim dies, the stirge will 
attack another opponent. 

Stirges like shiny things. On their ledge are 
three gems worth 500 gp, 100 gp, and 50 gp, 


4 














c 1985 TSR. lot AI)Bi|hli RttrrvrH 
























THE CLEARING OF CASTLE CALDWELL 


respectively. The ledge can be easily reached 
if a character of normal human size stands on 
one of the tables. 

11. CHAPEL 


The east wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. There is a 
small altar on the diagonal northwest wall. 
There are several long benches in the room. 
Two of them have been pushed together in 
the southeast corner to form a rude bed. A 
woman wearing armor and carrying a 
mace kneels at the altar. 


The woman is an acolyte (1st level cleric) of 
chaotic alignment. She is armed with a mace. 
She is wearing plate mail and receives an 
armor class bonus of + 1 for high dexterity. 

There are religious items on the altar, but no 
single item is worth more than a few silver 
pieces. There is a small cabinet under the altar 
that contains tw o vials, each a potion of healing. 

If the characters do not immediately attack 
the acolyte, she offers to lead them in worship. 
She, like the traders in rooms 3,4, and 5, is anx 
ious to avoid fighting with a large party. 

12. TOWER ROOM 


You see a circular room, about 40 feet in 
diameter, with eight openings spaced 
evenly and from about waist height to 
about head height for a normal human. 
These are obviously ports through which 
arrows can be fired. The floor of the room 
is covered with rubbish. 


The room is empty. 

13. UTILITY ROOM 


The north wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. The room 
appears to be empty. 


The room is empty. 

14. BEDROOM 


Except for an unoccupied bed, this room 
appears to be empty. 


This room is lit by a skylight in the southwest 
corner of the room that lets in the light, but not 
the rain. A crab spider is clinging to the ceiling 
when the party enters, and drops down on a 


party member (choose at random), surprising 
on a roll of 1-4 on ld6. If the crab spider makes 
a successful hit, it inflicts its normal damage 
and the victim must then make a saving throw 
vs. Poison (with a + 2 bonus because the spi 
der's poison is weak) or die. 

15. STOREROOM 


The north wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. Three 
men lie on pallets near the north wall. 
They are wearing leather armor and arc 
armed with swords. A pack mule stands 
near the east wall. The room contains a lot 
of what seems to be personal gear and 
equipment. 


The three men are bandits (1st level thieves) 
who are using this room as a temporary hide 
out. All three men are armed with short 
swords. One bandit has a cursed short sword - 
1 that only inflicts 1-5 points of damage (d6-l, 
but never less than 1) and gives its user a 
penalty of -1 on hit rolls. 

The bandits have obviously been success 
ful at their trade. In addition to their personal 
gear (bedrolls, food, etc.), they have six large 
sacks, each containing 500 sp. They also have a 
small wooden box that holds six gems (worth 
a total of 520 gp) and two pear] neck-laces 
worth 400 gp each. 

The beast is a pack mule that the bandits 
keep in their room so that it will not be stolen. 
The mule fights only in its own defense, but is 
likely to get in the way of any combat in the 
room. If the party should win a fight with the 
bandits, they may, of course, use the mule for 
its own purposes. 

The bandits, like the other intelligent mon 
sters in this castle, will try to escape with their 
lives and treasure, in that order. If they 
escape and the party takes their treasure, 
they may return to take revenge, at the option 
of the DM. 

16. BEDROOM 


This room contains three small humanoids 
with scaly, rust-brown skin and no hair. 
They are armed with spears. There is a 
door at the far end of the room, flanked by 
small windows high up on the wall. 


The door leads to the courtyard (room 31). 
The humanoids are kobolds. They have no 
treasure. 

The kobolds do not speak the common 
tongue, and are very wary of a large party. 


They know about the wolves in room 31. If the 
party attacks, they open the door to the 
courtyard. The wolves, however, are as likely 
to attack the kobolds as they are the PCs. 

17. STOREROOM 


The north wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. The room 
appears to be empty. 


The room is empty. 

18. BEDROOM 


Except for an unoccupied bed, this room 
appears to be empty. 


The room is lit by a skylight in the southeast 
corner that lets in the light, but not the rain. 
The room is empty. 

19. GUARDROOM 


The north wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with small 
windows above the ledge. The room looks 
as if it might have been a guard post. 
There are a few beds, some pegs on the 
walls for clothing, a rack to hold weapons, 
and a long table with a drawer that might 
once have served as a desk. There are 
moth-eaten clothes on the bed, but the 
room otherwise appears to be empty. 


If the party searches the room, it will find 
under one of the beds a small sack that con 
tains 100 sp and 20 gp. 

20. TOWER ROOM 


You see a 

circular 

room, 

about 

40 

feet in 

diam eter, 

with eight opening 

5 S 

spaced 

evenly 

abo 

'Ut the o 

utside 

wall. 

The win- 

dows 

extend from 

about 

waist 

he 

light to 

about 

head 

1 height 

for a 

norm 

al 

human. 

These 

are 

obviously ports through 

which 

arrow s 

can 

be fired 

. The 

room 

apf 

)ears to 

be empty except for 

the remains 

of 

a skele- 

ton on 

the floor. 






The skeleton has been there for many years. It 
was once a defender of this castle. The room 
is otherwise empty. 

21. UTILITY ROOM 

The door to this room is wizard locked, and 
cannot be opened by anyone in the party. 


6 













THE CLEARING OF CASTLE CALDWELL 


If the party asks the statue in room 7 about the 
door, it will say, "Much danger, strange 
magic, and great treasure lies behind the door, 
but it cannot be opened by any means such as 
you possess." See the second adventure in this 
module for more details about what lies 
behind this door. For the time being, make it 
an unsolvable mystery for the party to ponder. 

22. STOREROOM 


The west wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. Except for 
some trash on the floor, the room appears 
to be empty. 


As soon as any character enters the room, a 
giant shrew attacks. The giant shrew "sees" 
by sound, and is not affected by light or the 
lack of it. The creature is very quick, and 
automatically gains initiative on the first 
attack. It receives a bonus of + 1 on its initia 
tive roll for all subsequent rounds of combat. 
Because of the ferocity of its attack, any vic 
tim of 3rd level or less must make a saving 
throw vs. Death Ray or run away in fear. 

If the party searches the room after dealing 
with the shrew, they find a hole in the west 
wall that the shrew used to enter and leave the 
castle. The hole is not large enough for a 
man-sized creature to climb through. 

There is no treasure here. 

23. LIBRARY 

The west wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. Book 
shelves line the north and south walls; a 
few motheaten books remain on them. 
Two huge beetles sit on the dusty carpet in 
the middle of the room. 


These are fire beetles. They have been eating 
the carpet, and would love a real meal. 

There is no treasure here, but if the party 
kills the fire beetles, they can remove the 
glowing glands from the creatures to use as a 
light source. The glands give off light in a 10 
foot radius, and glow for 1-6 days after they 
are removed. 

24. PANTRY 


The west wall of this room has a ledge 
about seven feet from the floor, with two 
small windows above the ledge. Cabinets 


and shelves line the wall. In the middle of 
the floor lies the body of a goblin with a 
horribly swollen arm. Trash and old sacks 
are scattered about the floor. 


If the characters examine the swollen arm they 
find the marks of a snakebite. One of the sacks 
in the southwest corner contains a spitting 
cobra. The cobra attacks only if its nest is dis 
turbed. If the cobra is disturbed, it spits at the 
nearest party member, automatically gaining 
initiative on the first round of combat. There is 
no treasure here. 

25. KITCHEN 


The west wall of this room has a ledge about 
seven feet from the floor, with two small win 
dows above the ledge. The room seems to be a 
kitchen. It contains four tables, a pump, 
and an old stove. A large leather chest rests 
by the middle of the west wall. 


The chest is closed and strapped with leather 
belts, but is not locked. The chest is trapped. 
If opened, a cloud of poison gas issues forth, 
catching the character who opens the chest 
and anyone else within five feet. Anyone 
caught by the cloud must make a saving 
throw vs. Poison for half damage or receive 3- 
12 points of damage. 

The chest is empty, but is worth 50 gp if 
sold. It is large enough to hold 2,000 coins. 

26. TOWER ROOM 


You see a circular room, about 40 feet in 
diameter, with eight openings spaced 
evenly about the outside wall. The win 
dows extend from about waist height to 
about head height for a normal human. A 
tree limb has grown through one of the 
windows. These are obviously ports 
through which arrows can be fired. The 
room appears to be empty. 


The room is empty. 

27. BEDROOM 


This trash-filled room contains an empty 
bed. The bed clothes are rotten and 
decayed. The room appears to be other 
wise empty. A door on the east wall is 
flanked by two small windows about seven 
feet from the floor. 


There is a large sack under the bed clothes 
that contains 300 sp and 50 gp. 


28. BEDROOM 


This trash-filled room contains an empty 
bed. There is a chest next to the bed. Oth 
erwise, the room appears to be empty. A 
door on the east wall is flanked by two 
small windows about seven feet from the 
floor. 


The chest is empty. The room contains noth 
ing of value. 

29. BEDROOM 


This trash-filled room contains an empty 
bed with all its slats removed. The room 
appears to be otherwise empty. A door on 
the east wall is flanked by two small win 
dows about seven feet from the floor. 


The room is empty. 

30. BEDROOM 


This trash-filled room contains an empty 
bed. There are scorch marks on the wall. 
The room appears to be otherwise empty. 

A door on the east wall is flanked by two 
small windows about seven feet from the 
floor. 

The room is empty. 

31. COURTYARD 

NOTE: If the party encountered the wolves in 
room 16, you must change the following 
description to account for the earlier meeting. 
If the party has already found out about the 
wolves (for example, by looking through the 
windows into the courtyard, or by asking the 
statue in room 7), they cannot be surprised 
here. Otherwise, the wolves have the normal 
chance to surprise the party. 


You see a grassy courtyard open to the sky. 
Six doors, including the one by which you 
entered, line the walls. There are two large 
wolves in the middle of the courtyard. 


The wolves had been using room 4 to get into 
the castle, but the traders had barred the door 
when they arrived a few days ago. The wolves 
are very hungry. 


7 















DUNGEONS OF TERROR 



Background 

This is the second part of the adventure in 
Castle Caldwell. When the characters cleared 
out the first level of the castle, they found a 
mysterious locked room (room 21) that could 
not be opened by any means available to the 
party. Clifton Caldwell, concerned about the 
mysterious room, hired an Enchanter to unlock 
the door. 

The room behind the door was totally 
empty, except for a trap door in the floor. The 
windows in the room had been bricked up. 

The trap door in the floor opened easily, but 
the area below was totally dark. When the 
magic-user cast a light spell through the trap 
door, she saw an empty room with an opening 
leading to a corridor. She was not willing to 
explore further, either on her own or in the 
company of a larger party. So, Clifton has once 
again contacted the adventurers who cleared 
out the castle to tackle the dungeons down 
below... 

Notes for the Dungeon Master 

This adventure is designed as a follow-up to 
the previous adventure, but you may decide 
to have a different party explore the 
dungeons (especially if the first party did not 
survive!). In that case, Clifton must tell the 


new adventurers what took place in the pre 
vious adventure. 

You can, if you wish, roleplay Clifton's 
negotiations with the party for this new mis 
sion. Claiming that the adventurers took so 
much treasure in the previous mission, and 
that there must surely be more treasure down 
below, he offers 100 gp apiece. If pressed for 
more money, he asks for a percentage of any 
treasure found in the dungeon. 

If you don't want to roleplay the negotia 
tions, tell the players that the fee for this mis 
sion is 100 gp plus treasure found in the 
dungeon. Half of the fee is paid in advance, 
the rest when the mission succeeds. 

The characters should be given ample 
opportunity to purchase supplies and equip 
ment with the money they have on hand. 

The characters can travel to the castle and 
enter room 21 without incident, unless you 
choose to add wandering monster encoun 
ters. There are no wandering monsters on the 
dungeon level. 

Except as noted in the text, none of the 
rooms on the dungeon level have light 
sources, so the party will need light. The hall 
ways are also dark. 

The walls and floors of the dungeon level 
have been cut from the rock. Some of the 
rooms (including 2, 3, and 9-13) are obvi 


ously uncompleted. All doors are made of 
heavy oak. Except as noted in the text, all 
doors are unlocked and open easily, The ceil 
ings are about 10 feet high throughout, but 
the ceilings in the unfinished areas are irregular 
in height. 

Except for those monsters that are living 
together, the monsters on this level do not 
work together against the party. All the intel 
ligent monsters know how to get out of this 
level, but none are willing to tell the party 
how to leave, even if threatened. 

Ideally, the party should first clear all the 
rooms in this dungeon except for rooms 5 and 
14, and then find the key that opens room 5. If 
possible, avoid letting the party into that 
room until all the other areas of the dungeon 
have been explored. 

If the party should take heavy damage and 
seem in danger of not surviving this level, 
you should place several potions of heating in 
one of the rooms. Do this no more than once. 

Before the game begins, prepare copies of 
the treasure map and riddle on page 12 to 
hand out to the players when their characters 
discover those items in the adventure. Use a 
separate sheet of paper for each one. 


8 










































DUNGEONS OF TERROR 


1. DUNGEON ENTRANCE 

NOTE: The monster that is about to appear 
is a doppleganger. It chooses as its first victim 
the weakest member of the party (probably a 
magic-user). Choose the doppleganger's vic 
tim first, then fill in the blanks when you read 
aloud the copy below. 


The rooir 

i appears 

to be 

empty. A 

s the last 

party mt 

imber conies 

through 

the trap 

door, the 

door slams sh 

iut above 

you. At 

the sam 

e moment a 


(man/ 

woman) 

enters the 

room 

from the 

corridor 

to the 

north. 


(He/She) is 

dressed 

in 


(robe 

s/arm or/ 

leather) 

and look 

:s quite a 

bit like 



(int 

ended 

victim). 


(He/She) 

i says 

, "Oh, don't worry 

about that old trap 

door. 

There's an exit at 

the end 

of this c 

orridor. What 

are you 

down here for?" 





Play the part of the doppleganger carefully. It 
appears to only want to help the party, and 
may actually fight alongside them against 
other dungeon monsters. Its objective is to 
find an opportunity to "talk" to its intended 
victim alone. It might tell its "friend" that it 
knows of a special treasure that they can steal 
together-but it will be ruined if the other 
party members find out about it. 

If it can get its victim alone, the dopple 
ganger attacks. If it kills its victim, it changes 
its shape to that of its victim and rejoins the 
party, making up the best excuse it can for 
what happened to the "other" person. It 
might even say, speaking as the person it is 
now impersonating, that it killed a dopple 
ganger that tried to impersonate it. Use your 
best judgement and skill in handling this 
should it occur. The doppleganger then tries 
to get each member of the party alone in turn, 
and attacks them when they are alone. 

If the doppleganger should impersonate 
one of the party members, talk to that charac 
ter's player privately. The player should play 
the part of the doppleganger without letting 
any other player know what is going on. 

The doppleganger has no treasure with it, 
but it knows that a treasure of 500 gp is con 
cealed in the west wall of this room, near the 
northwest corner. It is covered up and looks 
so much like the rest of the wall that it is 
nearly impossible to find without the help of 
the doppleganger or the treasure map that the 
characters may discover later. Even with 
knowledge of where the treasure is, the char 
acters must spend at least two turns digging 
into the wall to reveal the treasure. 

The trap door above is a magical one-way 


door. Once the final party member is inside, 
the door slams shut, and then disappears! It 
does this even if special means were used to 
prop the door open. Knock spells, thief abili 
ties, other magic, or other skills cannot open 
the trap door from the inside. The party must 
find the secret exit from the dungeon or else 
remain forever stuck. 

The doppleganger's "escape route" does 
not exist. It knows of the secret exit, but will 
not reveal it to the party under any circum 
stances. 

2. MAGIC-USER LAIR 


This room contains a sleeping area with 
two pallets, a couple of chairs, and various 
other pieces of furniture in the southwest 
corner. There is a crude laboratory along 
the north wall. It has a work bench with a 
few basic tools for doing experiments and 
an assortment of common chemicals. 
There is a faint odor of marsh gas in the 
air. A few candles provide light. Two men, 
dressed in ragged robes, sit at the bench. 


The men are mediums (1st level magic users). 
They have high dexterity, which gives them a 
+ 1 bonus to armor class. Each is armed 
with a dagger. The first has a magic missile 
spell, the other has a sleep spell. 

These magic users are insane. They speak 
softly and appear to be gentle, but they have 
murder on their minds. They approach the 
party with seeming friendliness, but if they get 
close enough, they try to bury their daggers in 
someone's ribs. They use spells only after melee 
has begun. Their morale is 12 because of their 
insanity, so they fight to the death. 

Each of the mediums carries a gem worth 
20 gp. The laboratory equipment is worth 50 
gp to a magic user. 

3. UNFINISHED ROOM 

NOTE: If any party member listens at this 
door, a low humming sound is heard. 

This room is 80 feet wide, but only about 
10 feet deep. The north wall is unfinished 
and honeycombed with natural-looking 
holes and indentations. The floor has sev 
eral coins scattered about. You hear a faint 
humming sound. 


The holes and indentations in the north wall 
are the nests of four robber flies. There are 
two exit passages that lead to the outside, but 
they are much too small for any party mem 
ber to use. 


The flies are hiding in their nests when the 
party enters. They surprise the party on a roll 
of 1-4 on 1 d6 unless someone in the party has 
heard the noise. 

There are 10 gp, 50 sp, and 100 cp scat 
tered on the floor. 

4. EMPTY ROOM 

[This room appears to be empty. | 

The room is empty. 

5. TELEPORTATION CHAMBER 

NOTE: The key to this room is located in 
either room 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13-whichever the 
characters search last-even if the room is oth 
erwise empty. Any attempt to pick the lock fails, 
regardless of dice roll (make the roll secretly and 
tell the player the attempt failed). The door is 
imbued with a special dispel magic spell that 
will foil any knock spell cast on it. 


The door to this room is securely locked. 
There is an ornate keyhole in the door. 


Characters can see nothing if they look 
through the keyhole. 

When the characters finally manage to 
enter the room, they see the following: 


The room appears to be empty except for 
an open corner cabinet in the southeast 
corner. The shelves of the cabinet are 
heaped high with treasure-brilliant gems 
and elaborate pieces of jewelry. Three 
large sacks on the bottom shelf are over 
flowing with shiny coins. The cabinet and 
the area around it seems to be bathed in a 
pale green glow. 


The cabinet is an illusion. Any character who 
approaches within 10 feet of the cabinet is 
instantly teleported to room 14. Other char 
acters in the room see the character vanish in a 
burst of green light. 

There is an invisible barrier that extends 10 
feet from the northeast corner of the room as 
long as the cabinet appears to be in the 
southeast corner. If the invisible barrier is 
struck, it yields slightly and then returns to its 
original position. 

Rooms 5 and 14 are connected by a special 
teleportation device. The two "terminals" of 
the teleporter are the illusory cabinet in room 5 
and a coffin (called the "switching coffin") in 
room 14. The direction of the teleporter (from 
room 5 to 14 or the reverse) is dependent on 
the location of the cabinet and the 


9 














?? 

m 

| ?? 

_rnmM_ 

nn 

ra 

0 


- VjUJt rii> - 


0 






































DUNGEONS OF TERROR 


switching coffin. 

When the illusory cabinet is in the south 
east corner of room 5 and the switching coffin 
is shut, the teleporter operates from room 5 to 
room 14. The invisible barrier in the north 
east corner of the room is operating. 

If the switching coffin in room 14 is 
opened, the teleporter switches directions and 
operates from room 14 back to room 5. The 
Illusory cabinet in room 5 instantly moves 
from the southeast to the northeast corner 
and the invisible barrier stops operating. Any 
character who steps into the glowing green 
circle in room 14 (see the description of that 
room) is instantly teleported back to room 5, 
and appears to walk out of the illusory 
cabinet. 

Whenever any characters are teleported 
away from the rest of the party, separate those 
players from the others. Tell the rest of the 
group only that the teleported characters have 
mysteriously vanished. The rest of the group 
should not know what happened to the 
vanished characters, or whether they are alive 
or dead. Keep the players separated until they 
all end up again in the same room. 

Sec the description of room 14 for more 
detail. 

6. ANTECHAMBER 


This room appears to be empty. There is 
trash on the floor, and a door on the far 
wall. 


The room is empty. 

7. STOREROOM 


This room appears to be empty. 


In fact, the room contains a gelatinous cube 
that surprises the party on a roll of 1-4 on 
ld6. Inside the cube are 72 sp and a dagger 
+ 1 . 

8. STOREROOM 


This room appears to be empty except for 
trash on the floor. 


The room is empty. 

9. EXCAVATION 


The ground in this area is covered with 
rubble from excavation work. Quite a few 
shiny coins are visible throughout the rub 
ble. 


If the party spends one turn gathering coins, 
they find 400 sp and 100 gp. If the party 
spends two or more turns, they find 600 sp 
and 150 gp. 

There is a 1 in 6 chance the first turn, a 2 in 
6 chance the second turn, a 3 in 6 chance the 
third turn, and so on, as long as the party is 
searching the room, that the berserkers from 
room 10 discover the party and attack. 

10. CAVERN 

NOTE: The following description is what the 
characters see from room 9. 

There seems to be a feeble light coming 
from the easternmost of the three open 
ings in the south wall. 


This is the lair of four berserkers. Three are 
armed with shortswords. One, the leader, is 
armed with a sword + 1, + 2 vs. undead. 

This area is dimly lit by a single torch stuck 
into the west wall. There are 7,000 cp scat 
tered on the floor here. 


11. CAVERN 


The floor 

here is 

covered 

with rubble. 

Except for 

a large, 

poorly 

defined 

shape 

near the south wall, 

the area 

appears 

to be 

empty. 






The shape near the south wall is a chest, 
latched but not locked. It is trapped with three 
spring darts that fire at anyone who opens it 
unless the trap is successfully deactivated or 
other precautions are taken. The darts (D 1-4 
each) hit as if they were fired by a 4 HD 
monster. Roll separately for each dart. The 
chest contains 700 sp and 100 gp. 

12. CONSTRUCTION 


[This area appears to be empty.| 


The area is empty. 

13. CAVERN 


A long, narrow passageway opens up into 
a rough-hewn chamber in the rock. Three 
ugly humanoid figures with pale, earthy 
skin are near the far wall. 


The humanoids look exactly like hobgoblins, 
but are actually thouls. 

The northeast corner of this chamber holds 
two large sacks. One sack contains 500 ep. 
The second contains 500 ep and four gems 


worth 100 gp (x2) and 50 gp (x2), respectively. 

14. TOMB 


This rectangular chamber contains ten 
stone sarcophagi with ornately carved lids. 
Each is about seven feet long and four feet 
wide. There are no doors, windows, or 
visible exits from the room. A deco-rated 
circle is inscribed on the floor. 


The coffins themselves are far too heavy to be 
moved. The stone lids can be slid aside only 
by a group of characters whose strength 
scores total 29 or higher. A character attempt 
ing to slide a stone lid must use both hands, 
and so must put down weapons and shields. 
The contents of the coffins are as follows: 

Coffin 1 or 10 (whichever of the two the 
party opens first): This coffin is the switch 
ing coffin that changes the direction of the 
teleporter (see description for room 5). When 
the lid is removed, there is a flash of light and 
the floor within the inscribed circle (see map) 
glows a pale green for about 30 seconds, then 
fades. Back in room 5, the illusory cabinet 
moves from the southeast corner of the room 
to the northeast corner. The coffin is empty. 

Coffin 1 or 10 (whichever of the two the 
party opens last): The coffin contains 1,000 sp. 

Coffin 2: The coffin contains 1,200 sp. 

Coffin 3: The coffin contains a wight, 
which attacks immediately. It surprises on a 
roll of 1-3 on 1 d6. The coffin also contains 

200 pp. 

Coffin 4: The coffin contains 1,000 sp. 

Coffin 5: This coffin is trapped with a spe 
cial spray that affects metal as if a rust mon 
ster. All non-magical weapons and armor are 
affected the player makes a saving throw vs. 
Death Ray. Magical armor and weapons and 
precious metals (silver, gold, or platinum) are 
not affected. The spray affects all metal in a 5 
ft. radius. The coffin also contains 300 gp. 

Coffin 6: The coffin contains 1,000 ep. 

Coffin 7: The coffin contains a treasure map 
showing the location of the treasure in room 1, 
a scroll of floating disc, and the piece of paper 
(sec below) with the instructions for escaping 
the dungeon level. The floating disc spell can 
carry most of the coins found in this room. It 
will go through the teleporter circle with its 
owner. 

Coffin 8: The coffin contains a wight, 
which attacks immediately. It surprises on a 
roll of 1-3 on d6. The coffin also contains two 
bracelets worth 300 gp and 500 gp, respec 
tively, and 5 gems worth 100gp(x3)and 50 gp 
(x2), respectively. 


11 












DUNGEONS OF TERROR 


TREASURE MAP 



To exit from this awful place, 

The eastern corridor you must pace 
And chant the magic words: 

OWAH 

TAGOO 

SIAM 


Coffin 9: The coffin contains 1,100 sp. 

15. ESCAPE TUNNEL 

Copy the scroll that tells the characters how to 
escape the level, and give it to the players 
when they discover the scroll in the coffin. 

The magic words "OWAH TAGOO 
SIAM" are pronounced "Oh, what a goose I 
am." The phrase must be pronounced cor 
rectly for the magic to work. 

Whenever any character in the corridor 
outside rooms 4 and 5 chants those words, the 
ten foot section of the east wall of the east cor 
ridor marked on the map disappears, reveal 
ing the exit corridor. The wall returns after 
two turns have passed, but disappears again 
whenever the magic phrase is said. Although 
this exit is shown on the map as a secret door, 
ordinary attempts to detect secret doors do 
not work on it. 

The corridor leads to a door to the outside. 
The door is not locked. Brush and scrub covers 
the doorway, but once the characters clear it 
away, they are able to look up and see the 
castle above them. There is a faint path 
around the outside of the castle, but the area 
to the east is heavily forested. 


(c) 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




THE ABDUCTION OF PRINCESS SYLVIA 



B ackground 

The country in which the player characters 
live is ruled by a good king. His daughter, 
Princess Sylvia, is very beautiful and is loved 
by all her countrymen. This coming Satur 
day, she is to marry Prince Frederick, the 
crown prince of a neighboring kingdom. The 
marriage will cement relations between the 
two kingdoms for years to come. 

But last week, while taking a ride in the 
country, the princess and her guard detail 
were overwhelmed by a large party of 
humanoid creatures. The guards were all 
killed, and the princess was kidnapped. 

Fortunately, Gerard, a peasant boy of 
about fourteen, was hunting in the forest 
nearby when the incident occured. When he 
heard the commotion, he went to see what 
was happening. He was smart enough not to 
attempt a rescue, and instead followed the 
creatures back to their hideout without show 
ing himself. 

The king has chosen the player characters 
from among dozens of volunteers to try to 
rescue the princess. He will pay a reward of 
500 gp to each rescuer if Princess Sylvia is 
returned unharmed. 


Notes for the Dungeon Master 

The princess has been abducted by a group of 
creatures who are led by Oliver of Horn, an 
evil magic-user. He has taken her to his 
gang's hideout, which has been carved out of a 
hill in a distant corner of the kingdom. Oli 
ver's gang consists primarily of lizard men 
and goblins. Gerard can describe the crea 
tures who attacked, but cannot identify them 
specifically. Only if the party members are 
quite familiar with the monsters in question 
would they be able to identify them from the 
boy's description. 

Oliver is very sure of his abilities, and 
believes that he and his gang can withstand 
anything short of a full-scale war. He is not 
aware that the kidnapping was witnessed. 

Oliver has been hired by the prime minis 
ter of Prince Frederick's country, who does 
not want the alliance to take place. However, 
Oliver has decided to play his own game, and 
plans to ransom the princess to the highest 
bidder. 

On request, Gerard will lead the party to 
the place where the kidnappers went under 
ground, but is not willing to assist the party in 
their rescue attempt. 

The walls, floors, and ceiling of Oliver's 
hideout are made of packed earth. Unless 


otherwise noted, the rooms are not lit, so the 
characters must carry their own light sources. 
Remember that a -4 penalty applies to the hit 
rolls of human characters fighting in the 
dark. If the characters cannot see and the 
enemy can, the enemy receives a + 4 bonus 
to its hit rolls. 

There are no wandering monsters in this 
adventure. 

1. ENTRANCEWAY 


The entrance tunnel is about 20 feet wide 
and slopes gradually down into the hill. 
About 30 feet from the entrance, there is a 
passageway to the right. At the point 
where the passageway begins, there is a 
small humanoid with chalky tan skin, sit 
ting in a crude chair. The chair is tilted 
back against the far wall. The humanoid 
appears to be asleep. 


The humanoid is a goblin armed with a short 
sword and a spear. He carries a small pouch 
containing 20 ep and 10 sp. He is supposed to 
be on guard, but he has fallen asleep. When 
the party has dealt with the goblin, the follow 
ing occurs: 


13 









THE ABDUCTION OF PRINCESS SYLVIA 


A large humanoid with scaly skin and a 
tail enters from the east passageway. It is 
carrying a spear, and a large club hangs 
from its belt. It readies its spear, and says 
in a low hissing voice, "Hey, what arc you 
guysss doing here? You are not with usss! 
What have you monssstersss done with 
Thorn?" 


The humanoid is a lizard man carrying a 
spear. It attacks the party as soon as it finishes 
talking. If the party has not killed Thorn (the 
goblin), the goblin wakes up. grabs its spear, 
and helps the lizard man. 

2. GUARD POST 


The room contains a desk along the north 
wall with a chair behind it, two other 
chairs, a rack on the west wall near the 
desk with several spears in it, and two 
crude pallets on the floor in the south part 
of the room. 


The desk has three drawers. The top drawer 
contains a scroll with a cure disease spell on 
it. Cure disease is a spell from the D&D(r) 
Expert set. It will cure any disease once. Only 
clerics can use the scroll. It is there in case 
someone fails to avoid the green slime in 
room 2a. All the gang members know about 
the scroll. 

The secret door leading to room 2a is acti 
vated by stepping on a special spot in the 
extreme northeast corner of the room. If this 
spot is stepped on, there is an audible "click," 
and the secret door slides open. 

2a. SECRET TUNNEL 

If the tunnel is entered from room 2, read the 
following: 

You see a tunnel with earthen walls. It 
curves to the left after 10 or 15 feet. The 
walls and ceiling are streaked with color. 
The right-hand wall is yellow, and other 
parts of the wall have red, orange, and 
brown streaks. 


The yellow on the south wall near room 2 is 
yellow mold, All the monsters know about the 
mold and avoid it when passing through the 
tunnel. 

From the inside, the doors to rooms 2 and 5 
are obviously doors. The monsters use the 
tunnel to escape from these rooms if they are 
trapped. In fact, a second goblin has just gone 
from the guard post through the tunnel to tell 
Oliver about the intruders. It will be 


impossible to surprise Oliver when he is 
encountered. 

If the tunnel is entered from room 5, read 
the following: 


You see a tunnel with earthen walls. It 
curves to the right after 10 or 15 feet. The 
walls and ceiling are streaked with color. 
The ceiling has a greenish tinge, and the 
walls have red, orange, and brown streaks. 


The ceiling near the door has a green slime on 
it. The slime drops on the first character pass 
ing beneath, surprising on a roll of 1-4 on 
1 d6. 

3. TRAINING ROOM 


This huge room is about 60 feet wide and 
over 100 feet long. It is dimly lit by a few 
torches in brackets along the walls. Bales 
of hay at the far end of the room have 
crude targets painted on them. Dummies 
and padded posts, obviously used for 
weapons practice, line the east wall. The 
west wall is lined with shackles. Also along 
the west wall, seated in a chair, is a young 
woman, bound and gagged. Standing over 
her is a huge creature that looks like a bear 
with the head of a bird. 


As noted earlier, Oliver has been notified of 
the party's arrival. He has gone into room 4, 
from which he can see most of room 3. When 
the party entered, he cast a phantasmal force 
spell, and created an illusion of Princess Syl 
via being guarded by an owl bear. The illu 
sory owl bear appears to attack, and if the 
attack hits, it will appear as if damage has 
been done. However, the illusory damage 
disappears when the illusion ceases. 

Both illusory beings vanish instantly if they 
are hit in combat or touched. 

Whenever the illusion ceases, the party 
hears a loud, sinister laugh coming from the 
east. If they inspect the cast wall, they find a 
peephole, but there is no way to enter room 4 
from this side. Oliver immediately leaves 
room 4 and heads for his laboratory (room 
13). He will arrive there before the party can 
locate him or find the entrance to room 4. 

4. OBSERVATION ROOM 

NOTE: Anyone who examines the wall 
around the secret door closely discovers a thin 
line around the door. The door can be opened 
by pressing a spot near the left (south) edge 
about two feet from the floor. The door 


swings out on its own, and a handle inside 
allows it to be pulled shut. Once the door is 
opened, read the following to the players: 


There is a high stool at the far end of the 
room. Otherwise, the room appears to be 
empty. 


The room is empty except for the stool. Any 
one sitting on the stool sees the peephole into 
room 3. 

5. GOBLIN LEADER'S QUARTERS 


There arc two beds in the northeast corner 
of this room. A rack between them has two 
swords, two bows, and two quivers hang 
ing on it. Sitting on each bed is an ugly 
humanoid with chalky tan skin. There is a 
table in the northwest corner, and an 
opening in the south wall. 


The humanoids are goblins. It takes one melee 
round for them to grab their short swords or 
short bows and quivers. 

The goblins are guarding the goblin leader 
who lives in the south half of this room. The 
goblin leader is armed with a short sword + 1 
and has high strength, for a + 1 bonus to 
damage. If the party fights the goblins, the 
goblin leader comes to aid his men. 

Each of the goblin guards carries a small 
pouch with three gems totalling 100 gp. A 
locked chest under one of the beds in the 
guards' quarters contains 720 sp. The leader 
wears a belt with a silver buckle worth 100 
gp. The wardrobe in the leader's room has a 
false bottom; inside are 90 gp and 900 sp. 

The secret door in the leader's room is sim 
ilar to the one in room 2. It is opened by step 
ping on a section of the floor in the extreme 
southwest corner of the room. If the section is 
stepped on, the party hears an loud "click" and 
the secret door opens slightly. The party can 
then open the door into the tunnel. 

6. GOBLIN QUARTERS 


This long, narrow room has several pal 
lets on the floor close to the door. Five 
small, ugly humanoids are standing 
around talking. Each carries a spear and 
has a sword hanging from his belt. 


The humanoids are goblins armed with spears 
and short swords. Each carries a small pouch 
containing 20 ep and 9 sp. 


14 













SECRET 

DOOR' 








11 

























































THE ABDUCTION OF PRINCESS SYLVIA 


7. OLIVER'S BEDROOM 

NOTE: The door to this room has an 
ordinary-looking doorknob on the left. It is a 
dummy, and is trapped with a poison needle. 
A thief has a normal chance to detect and 
remove the needle. Any character who grabs 
the trapped dummy doorknob must make a 
saving throw vs. Poison or suffer 3-18 points 
of damage. The door is actually opened by 
pulling on a rope that hangs in the corner to 
the right of the door. The rope is dirty and 
blends in with the walls, so that it is hard to 
detect. When the characters open the door, 
read the following aloud: 


This room contains a bed, two chairs, and a 
few small rugs on the floor. It is dimly lit by a 
single candle on a table by the bed. There is a 
large open closet in the southwest corner 
with clothing hanging on racks, 


There is nothing of value here. There is a 
secret door in the west wall of the closet that 
leads to room 13. 

8. LIZARD MAN 
LEADER'S QUARTERS 

NOTE: The following description assumes the 
party has entered this room from the corridor. If 
they enter from the pool, you must make the 
appropriate changes in the description. 


Sitting on each of the two beds in the 
southeast corner is a humanoid with scaly 
skin and a tail. A rack on the wall between 
the beds contains many spears. There is a 
table in the southwest corner. The west 
wall has an opening in it. 


The humanoids are lizard men. Each is armed 
with a spear and a large club. They are guards 
for the lizard man leader who lives in the west 
half of this room. The lizard man leader has 
unusual strength, and so inflicts one point 
more damage than other lizard men. The 
lizard man leader comes to aid the guards if 
there is a fight. 

Each of the three lizard men has a potion of 
healing. 

The leader's quarters in the western part of 
the room are unremarkable, except that the 
floor in the northwest corner is damp. The 
narrow corridor to the northwest leads to a 
small spring-fed pool that is about eight feet 
deep. The ceiling of the tunnel slopes down 
ward so that at the entrance to the pool, the 
corridor is only about 4 feet tall. If a character 
kneels down to look through the entrance (if 
light is available), he sees that the ceiling 


above the pool forms a shallow dome. There 
is a space of about six feet between the surface 
of the water and the highest part of the ceil 
ing. The corridor on the other side of the pool 
leads to room 9. 

The water in the pool is cold but not harm 
ful. The lizard men keep most of their trea 
sure at the bottom of this pool-a total of 
1,500 gp and 5,000 sp. Because of the reflec 
tive qualities of the water and the poor light 
ing conditions here, the coins can only be 
discovered if a character actually dives down to 
the bottom and feels around. Casting some sort 
of magical light into the area above the 
surface of the water also allows the treasure to 
be seen. 

Characters who dive into the pool wearing 
metal armor cannot stay afloat. A character 
can stay submerged for as many melee 
rounds as the character has points of constitu 
tion. It will take at least two hours of diving to 
completely clear the pool of treasure. If Oli 
ver and any of his men are still alive, of 
course, they will use this opportunity to strike 
back... 

9. LIZARD MEN QUARTERS 

NOTE: The following description assumes the 
party enters this room from the hallway. If they 
enter from the pool, you must modify the 
description accordingly. 


Three humanoids with scaly skin and tails 
sit on pallets on the floor of this long, nar 
row room. Each is holding a spear and has a 
large club hanging from its belt. 


The humanoids are lizard men. They have no 
treasure. Their quarters are unremarkable, 
except that the floor in the southwest corner is 
damp. The tunnel leading to the pool is similar 
to the one leading from room 8 to the pool. 

10. TREASURE ROOM 

NOTE: Characters searching this wall find a 
line around the edge of the door to this room 
that is just barely visible. The secret door can 
be opened by pressing a spot near the left 
(north) edge of the door about two feet from 
the floor. The door swings out on its own, and a 
handle inside allows it to be pulled shut. If the 
party opens the door, read the following 
aloud: 


The far half of the right-hand wall of this 
room seems to be made of metal. There 
are a number of sacks piled in the far left 
corner of the room. 


There is also a handle sticking out slightly 
from the north wall near the door. It is now 
pointing upward. It can be turned easily in 
any direction. Before any of the party moves 
into the east half of the room, the handle must 
be turned so that it is horizontal and points to 
the west, If this is not done, any character who 
steps into the east half of the room triggers a 
trap that moves the metal wall. Behind the wall 
are three zombies who attack immediately if 
the wall is moved. 

Oliver's treasure trove is impressive. One 
sack holds 100 gems worth 5 gp each. Another 
small sack holds 50 gems, worth 20 gp each. 
A small leather pouch holds 4 gems worth 50 
gp each, 2 gems worth 100 gp each, and 1 gem 
worth 300 gp. A small, intricately worked, 
leather-bound box (worth 60 gp itself) is filled 
with jewelry: 5 bracelets worth 200 gp each, a 
pair of earrings worth 400 gp, a ruby pendant 
worth 700 gp, and a diamond necklace worth 

I, 100 gp. Twelve large sacks hold 400 pp, 500 
pp, and 500 sp (xlO), respectively. 

II. DINING ROOM 

NOTE: If the party is quiet, they hear a low 
voice coming from this room before they 
enter. Any character who speaks goblin rec 
ognizes the language. 


This is apparently a dining room. The 
remains of a meal are being cleaned off the 
tables by a single small humanoid with 
pale, earthy skin. The small humanoid has 
its back to the door and is mumbling to 
itself. 


The humanoid is a goblin armed with a dag 
ger. It is complaining to itself in the goblin 
tongue about how unfair it is that it always 
gets stuck with KP duty. Its morale is low and 
there is a 50% chance that it will cooperate 
with the party after a little persuasion. It can 
tell the party exactly how many people are in 
the gang (goblin leader, 9 goblins, lizard man 
leader, 6 lizard men, and Oliver), but not 
where they all are. It knows that Oliver is a 
powerful magic user, but does not know Oli 
ver's level or which spells he knows. 

The goblin knows that there is a secret door 
in room 12, but doesn't know where it leads 
or what lies beyond. It knows about the secret 
doors in rooms 2 and 5 and about the tunnel 
connecting them. It does not know about the 
secret door in Oliver's bedroom (room 7), nor 
about the secret doors to rooms 4 or 10. 


16 







THE ABDUCTION OF PRINCESS SYLVIA 


12. KITCHEN 

NOTE: If the party is quiet, they hear a low 
voice coming from this room, recognizable as 
the goblin tongue to anyone who speaks that 
language. 


This room is obviously a kitchen. It con 
tains a large basin with a pump in the cen 
ter, and cabinets on the walls. A small, 
ugly humanoid with livid gray skin is 
standing at a large table in the middle of 
the room, facing the door. It has a dagger 
in its belt, and it is using a kitchen knife to 
slice into a haunch of meat on the table. It 
is mumbling angrily to itself. 


The humanoid is a goblin. It is complaining 
under its breath about the ingratitude of the 
people it cooks for (evidently they didn't like 
their last m eal). 

It is unhappy and its morale is low. There 
is a 50% chance it will cooperate with the 
party with appropriate persuasion. It knows 
the same information as the goblin in room 
11 . 

An open cabinet on the east wall contains 
dishes. A latch on the right side of the cabinet 
allows the entire cabinet to be swung out 
from the wall, revealing a door to room 13. 

There is nothing of value in the kitchen. 

13. LABORATORY 


This room is well lit by candles on the five 
rows of work benches that run north-south. 
The entire north wall is covered 


with bookshelves. In the northeast corner 
of the room is a woman, bound and 
gagged, tied to a chair. A large bear-like 
creature with a bird's beak stands guard 
over her. A small man wearing robes 
stands at one of the benches. As you enter, 
he looks up. He has a disappointed look 
on his face. He says, "Oh, well, it seems as 
if my soldiers have failed to eliminate this 
nuisance. But as I always say, if you want 
something done properly, do it yourself." 


The woman is the real Princess Sylvia. She is 
being guarded by an owl bear which has been 
charmed by Oliver to protect him. (Oliver 
found the charm monster spell on a scroll.) 

The small man is Oliver of Horn. Oliver is 
armed with a dagger + 1. His normal spells 
are: 

1st Level: shield, sleep 

2nd Level: phantasmal force, web 

Oliver's phantasmal force spell has already 
been used up. He has also cast shield on him 
self. Oliver is wearing a ring of protection + 1 
and carrying potions of healing and invisibility. 

Oliver is an intelligent, skilled magic-user, 
and uses his resources to the best of his ability. 
Since he knows that the party is on its way, he 
has already cast shield on himself. After mak 
ing his speech, above, he casts sleep at the 
party. If the party decides to concentrate on the 
owl bear, Oliver attacks with his dagger + 1. If 
the melee goes against Oliver, he flees through 
one of the secret doors hoping to lure 


the party after him. If the party follows Oli 
ver down one of the 10 feet wide corridors, 
the evil magic user casts his web spell and 
tries to capture as many of the party members 
as possible, allowing him to kill them easily. 

If Oliver takes a lot of damage, he drinks 
his potion of healing. If all else fails, he drinks 
his potion of invisibility and flees with his life. 

If the party successfully defeats Oliver and 
the owl bear, they can search the room. There 
are cabinets under the work benches. One of 
them contains 8 vials of potions, all different 
in appearance. There are 2 potions of healing, 
2 potions of invisibility, 1 potion of diminution, 
1 potion of gaseous form, 1 potion of growth, 
and 1 potion of poison. None of the vials is 
labeled. The party can sample each vial to see 
what is contained therein. A small sip will tell 
what kind of potion is there. Determine 
randomly which vial is being sampled. If the 
vial contains poison, the drinker must make a 
saving throw vs. Poison or die. Oliver's spell 
book is also hidden under one of the work 
benches. It contains all the spells listed above, 
plus read magic, read languages, and 
invisibility. 

Princess Sylvia is very grateful to be res 
cued, but will snub any party member who 
approaches her romantically. She is pledged 
to Prince Frederick and does not care for 
commoners. 

If the party captures Oliver alive, and 
returns him to the king, the king gives each 
party member an additional 500 gp reward. If 
Oliver should escape, he harbors deep 
resentment against the party, and may come 
back to exact revenge... 


17 







THE GREAT ESCAPE 



Background 

The country in which the player characters 
live is at war with a neighboring kingdom 
(not the kingdom of Prince Frederick and his 
new bride. Princess Sylvia). 

For the purposes of this adventure, assume 
that the party enlisted in the service of the 
king and traveled behind enemy lines to gain 
intelligence about enemy troop movements, 
supplies, and outposts. Unfortunately, the 
party was surprised by a large enemy patrol, 
and captured. The party members were 
blindfolded and taken to a large enemy out 
post near where they were captured, and 
placed in a cell. 

Notes for the Dungeon Master 

If you like, you can design the intelligence 
mission and the capture of the player charac 
ters, and run it as part of your campaign. If 
you do this, be careful, because intelligent 
and crafty players have a way of making the 
most cleverly-designed scenario go awry! 

If the players complain that it is unfair for 
them to start the adventure already captured, 
tell them that the enemy force greatly out 
numbered them-and that their only realistic 
choice was to surrender or die. They will 
have ample opportunity to escape and 


recover their equipment, if they play well. 

The party members start this adventure 
with no armor or weapons. The spell books of 
any magic users have been taken away. How 
ever, all spell casters in the party have memo 
rized spells (their choice), and can cast them 
normally. All obvious magic items have been 
removed from all characters. There is a 20% 
chance that small magic items (such as rings) 
may have been missed when the enemy sol 
diers searched their prisoners. 

Once the characters have escaped their 
cell, they can search for their equipment or 
leave the fortress immediately. If they leave 
without recovering their equipment, and 
make it back to their home kingdom, the king 
will equip the party with non-magical weap 
ons and armor (and possibly a few scroll 
spells for magic users, since they will not have 
their spell books) so they can go back and 
clear out the enemy outpost. They can then 
recover their equipment. If this occurs, 
replace all the men and monsters that the 
party killed during their escape. The entire 
outpost will be on alert when the party 
returns, and surprise will be impossible. 

Rooms that are empty or in which some 
one is sleeping are considered dark unless the 
room has windows or the text specifically 
states the room is lit. Rooms that are occu 


pied by people who are awake always have 
light, either through a window or by a candle 
or lantern. Doors are not locked unless the text 
specifically says otherwise, and open easily. 

The occupants of the outpost are intelligent 
soldiers. They work together, and once the 
alarm is raised or the escaping prisoners are 
sighted, they pursue the party in the most 
efficient way possible. 

Remember, the players cannot map the 
outpost until (or unless) their characters find 
mapping implements and supplies. 

The corridors and hallways of the outpost 
will be empty for exactly 10 turns after the 
party escapes from room 1. After that, the men 
and women currently eating a meal in room 2 
leave the dining room by ones and twos, with 
one group leaving every other turn. There is a 
1 in 6 chance each turn that the party will 
have a random encounter with 1 or 2 veterans. 
The veterans will attempt to sound the alarm if 
they get initiative and are not surprised. If the 
alarm is raised, the chance for an encounter 
increases to 3 in 6 each turn. If the party is 
already engaged in combat, there is a 1 in 6 
chance each melee round that 1 additional 
veteran arrives to join the fight. 


18 








THE GREAT ESCAPE 


1. PRISON CELL _ 

The flickering torchlight barely illumi 
nates the prison cell that you have occu 
pied for the past two days. Talking quietly 
amongst yourselves, you have pooled a 
pitifully scant amount of information 
about your plight. You were captured by 
an enemy patrol, blindfolded, and 
brought to this outpost. You were herded 
through corridors and finally shackled in 
leg irons in this narrow cell. 

It is clear that you did not travel far 
from where you are captured, but that is 
about all you know. Are you above 
ground? Underground? In a cave? In a 
tow n? You cannot tell. 

Once you were securely shackled, your 
blindfolds were removed, and you could 
see your surroundings. Your prison cell is 
about 20 feet wide and 80 feet long. Iron 
double doors, securely locked, are along 
one of the long walls. The leg irons are 
attached to each other with a sturdy chain, 
about five feet long. The chain passes 
through a ring that is securely embedded 
in the floor of the cell. The torches that 
light the room are in brackets high on the 
wall-too high for you to reach. 

You have heard human voices from 
time to time, but until this morning, the 
only creature you have seen is a large 
humanoid who bears a strong 
resemblence to a hyena. It has brought 
you food and water three times each day. It 
is armed with a dagger and a mace, and 
carries a large key ring with several keys 
on it. It has muttered and complained in 
the common tongue because the com 
mander has not let it torture you. 

This morning, the human commander 
of the outpost and a visitor, a female offi 
cer from another outfit, came into your 
cell and bragged about having captured 
you. He told the visitor that you are about 
to be transferred to a prisoner-of-war 
camp in the capital city of the enemy king 
dom, far from the front. There, you will 
have no hope of escape. 

If you are ever to see your home again, 
you must act soon. Soon, it will be time I 
for your noon meal... 


Give the players up to 10 minutes of real time 
to create a plan. If they decide on a plan in 
less than 10 minutes, the jailer arrives as soon 
as the plan is set. If the players have not fin 
ished their planning when their time is up, 
the jailer arrives anyway. When the jailer is 
about to enter the room, read the following: 


You hear heavy footsteps approach, and 
the sound of a key turning in the door. It is 
your jailer, coming with your noon meal. 
It enters alone, grumbling about some 
thing under its breath. It appears dis 
tracted. 


The jailer is a gnoll armed with a dagger and a 
mace. It carries a key ring with six keys. 
Only two are used in this adventure: one 
unlocks all the leg irons, and the other opens 
the prison door. 

The gnoll is not particularly bright, and will 
go along with any reasonably subtle trick, such 
as feigned illness on the part of a party member. 
If captured and threatened, it will cooperate 
with the party, but will look for the first opportu 
nity to doublecross them. It knows the party's 
equipment is in room 13, but does not have a 
key to that room. It does know that all the war 
riors (2nd level fighters) have keys. 

In order to give the party a fighting 
chance, the first magic spell that any party 
member casts in this adventure automatically 
succeeds, even if the victim is entitled to a 
saving throw. This benefit only happens once 
for the entire party. 

If the party's plan does not succeed, the 
jailer leaves, taking the noon meal. It does 
not report the escape attempt because it 
doesn't want to look bad. It returns with the 
evening meal, this tim e very alert. 

Give the party members several chances to 
arrange an escape, both during feeding times 
and when they are alone. 

If the party does not escape within two 
days (six meals), a party of armed human 
guards escorts them out of their cell, and they 
arc taken (in leg irons) to the prisoner-of-war 
camp. Any further escape attempts are at the 
discretion of the DM (remember that magic- 
users cannot re-learn spells without a spell 
book). It is possible that the characters will 
have to sit out the rest of the war, or never 
return. This effectively ends the adventure. 

If the party escapes the room, read the fol 
low ing aloud: 


As you carefully peer out the door of your 
cell, you see a corridor stretching to the 
left and right. You hear the sounds of con 
versation and laughter coming from the 
left. In both directions you see branching 
corridors and several doors. 


2. KITCHEN AND 
COMMON DINING ROOM 

NOTE: There are two openings (no doors) 


leading into the dining room, and one door 
(closed) leading into the kitchen. If the party 
peers through either door into the dining 
room, read the following: 


You see a large room with many tables and 
benches. About 20 people are sitting at the 
tables; they are laughing, talking, and eat 
ing. Both women and men are present; all 
are dressed in leather armor and seem to 
be soldiers. There is an open kitchen in 
one section of the room; a door leads out 
of the kitchen. 


If the party opens the door into the kitchen, 
read the follow ing: 


An open kitchen reveals a dining room 
beyond, filled with people. Two women 
are preparing and serving a meal. A deli 
cious aroma of cooking meat comes from 
the kitchen. 


The two women in the kitchen and ten of the 
people seated at the table are non-combatant 
servants. The rest are fighters wearing leather 
armor and armed with daggers. 

There are 6 male servants, 6 female ser 
vants, 8 veterans (1st level fighters), and 2 
warriors (2nd level fighters). Two of the vet 
erans are women. Each of the warriors has a 
key to the armory (room 13). 

3. MEN'S COMMON QUARTERS 


This room contains a number of beds and 
wardrobes, a few chairs, and a couple of 
tables. It otherwise appears to be empty. 
There is an open doorway on the far side 
of the room. 


This room provides quarters for the male ser 
vants. There is no one here at the moment. 
Under one mattress is 12 sp and 14 cp. Under 
a second mattress is 6 sp and 15 cp. A third 
mattress conceals 8 sp and 6 cp. A fourth 
holds 3 sp and 19 cp. 

4. MEN'S BATH 


This long, narrow room has an open door 
way at the far end. There are several 
wooden tubs on the floor, and what looks 
like a stove in the middle of the room. The 
floor is wet, and there is a soap smell. The 
room appears to be empty. 


This room is a bath. The stove is used to heat 
water for the tubs. The room is currently 


19 










THE GREAT ESCAPE 


empty. The floor is very slippery; if a charac 
ter searches here, the player must roll the 
character's Dexterity or less, using 3d6, or 
the character slips on the floor and twists an 
ankle. A twisted ankle cuts a character's 
movement rate by half for 1 d6 turns. 

5. MEN'S DRESSING ROOM 

NOTE: The following description assumes 
the party enters this room from the east. If 
they enter from room 6, you must make the 
appropriate adjustments. The small 
entranceway to the east of this room is cur 
rently empty. Both doors are swinging doors, 
and can easily be pushed open. 


The left wall of this long, narrow room 
seems to be a curtain. The right wall is 
lined with pegs. One of the pegs has some 
clothing on it. There is a basket near the 
far end of the room that has some cloth 
things on it. Otherwise, the room appears 
to be empty. 


This area is used by the men to change 
clothes before using the bath or the exercise 
room (room 6). The curtain has several gaps 
through which one can enter room 6. The 
clothing belongs to the man in room 6, and 
includes leather armor and a belt with a dag 
ger. The basket is filled with wet towels. 

6. MEN'S EXERCISE ROOM 

NOTE: The following description assumes 
the party enters this room from the south. If 
they come from room 5, make the appropri-ate 
adjustments. 


This looks like a work-out room. There 
are mats on the floor, weights, and other 
equipment. A man dressed only in short 
pants is doing push-ups near a rack in the 
near left corner of the room. 


This man is a veteran (1st level fighter) with 
better-than-normal armor class resulting from 
good dexterity. When he sees the party, he 
grabs a weight from the rack and uses it like 
a mace (D 2-7, due to strength). He is too far 
from the dining room to call to the others, but 
he tights as best he can. He runs to alert the 
others if he can. 

There is nothing of value in this room. If 
party members choose, they can use the 
weights as maces, but a -1 penalty to hit rolls 
and to damage applies when using them. 


7. WOMEN'S COMMON QUARTERS 


This room contains a number of beds and 
wardrobes, a few chairs, and a couple of 
tables. It otherwise appears to be empty. 
There is an open doorway on the far side 
of the room. 


This room provides quarters for the female 
servants. There is no one here at the moment. 
Under one mattress can be found 7 sp and 5 
cp. Under a second mattress can be found 8 
sp and 20 cp. 

8. WOMEN'S BATH 


This long, narrow room has an open door 
way at the far end. There are several 
wooden tubs on the floor, and a stove in 
the middle of the room. The floor is wet, 
and there is a soap smell. The room 
appears to be empty. 


This room is a bath. The stove is used to heat 
water for the tubs. The room is currently 
empty. The floor is very slippery; if a character 
searches here, the player must roll the 
character's Dexterity or less, using 3d6, or 
the character slips on the floor and twists an 
ankle. A twisted ankle cuts a character's 
movement rate by half for ld6 turns. 

9. WOMEN'S DRESSING ROOM 

NOTE: The following description assumes 
the party enters this room from the east. If 
they enter from room 10, you must make the 
appropriate adjustments. The small 
entranceway to the east of this room is cur 
rently empty. Both doors are swinging doors, 
and can easily be pushed open. 


The left wall of this long, narrow room 
seems to be a curtain. The right wall is 
lined with pegs. There is a basket near the 
far end of the room that has some cloth 
things on it. Otherwise, the room appears 
to be empty. 


This area is used by the women to change 
clothes before using the bath or the exercise 
room (room 10). The curtain has several gaps 
through which one can enter room 10. The 
basket is filled with wet towels. 

10. WOMEN'S EXERCISE ROOM 

NOTE: The following description assumes 
the party enters this room from the north. If 
they come from room 5, make the appropri 
ate adjustments. 


This looks like a work-out room. There 
are mats on the floor, weights, and other 
equipment. The room otherwise seems to 
be empty. 


There is nothing of value in this room. If 
party members choose, they can use the 
weights as maces, but receive a -1 penalty to 
both hit and damage rolls when using them. 

11. PANTRY 


This room is lined with shelves, and two 
additional rows of shelves are in the mid 
dle of the room. Sacks and barrels are 
stacked along the left wall. 


The sacks contain flour, potatoes, beans, and 
other food. The barrels hold pickles, dried 
fish, dried meat, and other preserved food. 
The shelves are not very well stocked, but 
there are wooden boxes filled with vegetables 
and bottles. On one shelf, together with bot 
tles of vinegar, oil, and other common liq 
uids, are five vials. Three contain potions of 
healing, one contains a potion of invisibility, 
and one contains a potion of poison. 

12. TRAINING ROOM 


At the far end of this room is a window, 
and three more windows line the long wall 
to the left. All are barred. The floor is cov 
ered with straw, bales of hay, and padded 
posts. 


This room is used for combat practice. The 
party cannot escape through the windows. 
Two battered shields have been tossed into 
the northeast corner of the room. The shields 
can be used. 

13. ARMORY 

Both doors to this room are locked. The com 
mander and all the warriors (2nd level fight 
ers) have keys. 


This room is full of racks on which hang a 
large assortment of armor and weapons. 


This room contains leather and chain mail 
armor in all human sizes, and a large number 
of short bows and arrows, short swords, 
spears, and shields (more than enough of 
each for all party members). 

All the party's equipment, including magic 
items and spell books, are stored here. 


20 













ENEMY OUTPOST 


1 SQUARE = 10 FEET 


k 

N 











































THE GREAT ESCAPE 


14. INTERROGATION CHAMBER 


The straw on the floor of this room is dis 
colored. A number of strange devices line 
the west wall. In the middle of the wall is a 
shallow pit. 


This is an interrogation chamber. The stains 
on the floor are blood. The pit is a fire pit with 
the ashes of an earlier fire in it. The room 
contains various interrogation devices and two 
wicked-looking whips (D 1-2). 

15. JAILER'S QUARTERS 


This messy bedroom contains a bed. a 
table, a chair, and a lot of ragged clothing. 


The gnoll jailer lives in this room. He has a 
large chest hidden under the floorboards 
beneath his bed. It is trapped with a poison 
needle. Anyone who opens the chest without 
first finding and removing the poison needle 
must make a saving throw vs. Poison or die. 
The chest contains 300 gp. 

16. WINE STORAGE ROOM 


This room contains barrels and kegs of 
various sizes. Several racks around the 
room are filled with bottles lying on their 
sides. 


This room is used to store liquor. The barrels 
are filled with ale, and the kegs and bottles are 
filled with wine. A wine rack in the south-west 
corner doubles as a secret door to the treasury 
(room 42). To operate the door, one must pull 
on the second wine bottle from the left on the 
bottom shelf. 

17. COMMON LIVING ROOM 

NOTE: The following description assumes the 
party enters this room from the west along the 
north wall. If they enter from another 
direction, adjust the description accordingly. 


This is an enormous room with many tables 
and comfortable chairs. The wall to your 
left and the far wall each have four 
windows. There is a door in the middle of 
the far wall that seems to lead outside. Two 
men dressed in leather are seated at a table 
in the far left corner, rolling dice. 


The two men are veterans (1st level fighters) 
armed with daggers. They are completely 
absorbed in their game, and are surprised on 


a roll of 1-5 on ld6. The gambling stakes on 
the table consist of 24 gp and 52 sp. 

If the fighters are attacked but not killed or 
silenced immediately, they yell for help. Make 
an immediate check to see if any of the 
wandering fighters come to help. Wandering 
fighters arrive in 1-3 rounds. 

18. COMM ANDER'S DINING ROOM 


This appears to be a dining room. There 
is a large oval table in the middle of the 
room surrounded by straight chairs. The 
floor is carpeted. A closed cabinet is in 
the near left corner. Two large windows 
are on the far wall, and there is a door in 
the right wall, near the entrance. 


This room is used by the commander when 
entertaining visitors. Inside the cabinet is a 
set of silverware (worth 600 gp) and fine 
china (worth 200 gp). There is nobody here 
now. 

19. COMMANDER'S DINING ROOM 


This seems to be a living room. There are 
some tables and a number of comfortable 
chairs around the room. The floor is car 
peted. There is a window along the left 
wall and a door in the far wall directly 
opposite the entrance. There are three 
people seated in chairs around a table 
across from the door through which you 
entered. You recognize two of them as the 
commander and the visiting officer. They 
are wearing leather armor. The third per 
son is a woman dressed in ordinary 
clothes. Each holds a glass of wine. 


The three people are the commander, his 
wife, and the visiting officer. Both the com 
mander and the visiting officer are armed 
with daggers. Their AC and damage reflect 
bonuses from dexterity and strength. The 
commander's wife does not fight. 

If the alarm has been raised, the com 
mander is armed with a short sword + 1 and 
is wearing plate mail and a shield + 1. Both 
these items are located in room 20 when not 
worn. The visitor carries a short sword. They 
cannot be surprised once the alarm has been 
given. 

The commander carries two keys: one 
unlocks room 1, the other room 13, He wears a 
pair of gem earrings worth 100 gp, two gold 
bracelets worth 300 gp each, and a gold and 
diamond necklace worth 750 gp. The visiting 
officer is wearing a ring worth 100 gp. 


20. COMMANDER'S BEDROOM 


This is obviously a bedroom. There are 
two large beds, two wardrobes, a desk, a 
table, and several chairs. There are ornate 
rugs on the floor There is a large window 
in the outside wall, a door directly across 
from the door by which you entered, and 
an open doorway in the wall opposite the 
window. 


If the commander was not alerted, a short 
sword + 1, plate mail armor, and a shield + 1 
are hanging on the wall. 

If the party goes through the open doorway 
into room 20a, read the following: 


This area appears to be a bath. There is a 
small stove at the far end and a large 
metal tub nearby. Closer to the door is a 
dressing table with a mirror. 


A drawer in the dressing table has a false bot 
tom that conceals 94 pp, 17 gp, and a cursed 
dagger -1. 

21. VISITOR'S QUARTERS 


This is obviously a bedroom, with a large 
bed, a wardrobe, a desk, a table, and sev 
eral chairs. There are a few small rugs on 
the floor. There is a large window in the 
left wall, and an open doorway to your 
right. Otherwise, the room appears to be 
empty, 


The room is empty. If the party goes through 
the open doorway into room 21a, read the fol 
lowing: 


This area appears to be a bath. There is a 
small stove at the far end and a large metal 
tub nearby. Closer to the door is a dressing 
table with a mirror. 

This room is empty. 

22. VISITOR'S QUARTERS 

This is obviously a bedroom, with a large 
bed, a wardrobe, a desk, a table, and several 
chairs. There are a few small rugs on the 
floor. There is a large window in the left 
wall, and an open doorway to your right. 
Otherwise the room appears to be empty. 


The room is empty. If the party goes through 
the open doorway into room 22a, read the fol 
lowing: 


22 














THE GREAT ESCAPE 


This area appears to be a bath. There is a 
small stove at the far end and a large metal 
tub nearby. Closer to the door is a dressing 
table with a mirror. 


This room is empty. 

23. VISITOR'S QUARTERS 


This 

is obviously a 

bedroom, with a large 

bed, 

a wardrobe, a 

desk, a 

table, and sev- 

eral 

chairs. There are a few 

small rugs on 

the floor. There is 

a large 

window in the 

left wall, another across the 

room from the 

door 

, and an open 

doorway 

' to your right. 

| Otherwise, the room 

appears 

to be empty. 


The visiting officer is quartered here. Her 
things are in the wardrobe. In addition to 
clothing, there is plate mail armor, a shield, 
and a long sword. There is also a bag of hold 
ing that contains 2,000 gp and 6,000 sp. 

If the party goes through the open doorway 
into room 23a, read the following: 


This area appears to be a bath. There is a 
small stove at the far end and a large metal 
tub nearby. Closer to the door is a dressing 
table with a mirror. 

This room is empty. 

24-41. OFFICERS'QUARTERS 

All the officers at this outpost have private 
quarters. The rooms in this section are all 
identical. They contain a single bed, a ward 
robe, a table with a chair pulled up to it, a 
low table near the bed, and a chair near the 
low table. 

2 4 . FEMALE VETERAN ' S QUARTERS 


There is a sword on the low table and 
chain mail armor draped over the chair. A 
woman in leather armor is asleep on the 
bed. 


The woman is a veteran (1st level fighter). 
The sword is a short sword. She has hidden 4 
gp, 4 sp, and 4 cp under her mattress. 

25. FEMALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 

The woman who lives in this room is cur 
rently in the lunchroom. There is chain mail 
armor and a short sword in the wardrobe. 
There is a false bottom in the table drawer that 
conceals 7 gp, 5 sp, and 10 cp. 


26. FEMALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 

The woman who lives in this room is cur 
rently in the lunchroom. There is chain mail 
armor in the wardrobe. 

27. FEMALE WARRIOR'S QUARTERS 


This room is slightly different from the 
others. Set apart from the rest of the room 
in the near left corner is a low table sur 
rounded by four comfortable chairs. There 
is a desk in the far left corner, and a sword 
hangs on the wall beside it. Seated at the 
desk is a woman dressed in leather, writing 
a letter. 


This woman is a warrior (2nd level fighter). 
In easy reach of her is a short sword + 1. 
Because of her strength, she does 1 extra 
point of damage per attack. She carries a 
large pouch on her belt containing 10 gp, 21 
sp, and 20 cp. She has a key ring with two 
keys: one to her room and one to the armory 
(room 13). 

28. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The man who lives in this room is currently in 
the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword. 
There is chain mail armor in the wardrobe. 

29. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The man who lives in this room is currently 
in the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword. 
There is chain mail armor in the wardrobe. 
The drawer in the table contains 1 gp and 3 sp. 

30. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The man who lives in this room is currently in 
the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword. 
There is chain mail armor in the wardrobe. 

31. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The man who lives in this room is currently 
in the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword. 
There is chain mail armor in the wardrobe. 
There are 4 gp and 7 sp hidden under the 
m attress, 

32. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword on the low table and chain 
mail armor draped over the chair. A man 
wearing leather armor is asleep on the bed. 


The man is a veteran (1st level fighter). The 
sword is a short sword. The drawer in the table 
contains 6 gp, 8 sp, and 2 cp. 

33. QUARTERS 


This is identical to the other bedrooms, 
but it appears to be unused. 


This room is empty. 

35. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The occupant of this room is working out in 
the exercise room (room 6). The sword is a 
short sword. There is chain mail armor in the 
wardrobe. 

36. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword on the low table and chain 
mail armor draped over the chair. A man 
wearing leather armor is asleep on the bed. 


The man is a veteran (1st level fighter). The 
sword is a short sword. A pouch attached to 
his belt contains 3 gp, 4 sp, and 2 cp. 

37. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


The man who lives in this room is currently 
in the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword. 
There is chain mail armor in the wardrobe. 
The wardrobe also holds a small pouch 
containing 6 gp and 2 sp. 

38. MALE VETERAN'S QUARTERS 


There is a sword hanging on a rack on the 
wall. 


23 


















THE GREAT ESCAPE 


The man who lives in this room is currently 
in the lunchroom. The sword is a short 
sword. There is chain mail armor in the 
wardrobe. 

39. MALE WARRIOR'S QUARTERS 


This room is different from the other bed 
rooms. Set apart from the rest of the room 
in the left corner is a low table surrounded 
by four comfortable chairs. There is a desk 
in the far left corner, and a sword and a 
shield hang on the wall beside it. 


The man who lives in this room is currently in 
the lunchroom. The sword is a short sword; 
and the shield is of normal make. There is a 
set of chain mail + 1 in the ward-robe. A 
small purse hidden in a chair contains 7 gp 
and 12 sp. 

40.MALE WARRIOR'S QUARTERS 


This room is different from the other bed 
rooms. Set apart from the rest of the room 
in the left corner is a low table surrounded 
by four comfortable chairs. There is a desk 
in the far left corner, and a sword and a 
shield hang on the wall beside it. 


The man who lives in this room is cur 
rently in the lunchroom. The sword is a 
normal short sword; the shield is a shield + 
1. There is a set of chain mail armor in the 
wardrobe. A secret compartment in the 
bottom of the wardrobe conceals 8 gp and 
20 sp. 


41. MALE WARRIOR'S QUARTERS 


This room is different from the other bed 
rooms. Set apart from the rest of the room 
in the left corner is a low table surrounded 
by four comfortable chairs. There is a desk 
in the far left corner, and a sword and a 
shield hang on the wall beside it. A man 
dressed in leather is asleep on the bed. 


This man is a warrior (2nd level fighter). His 
superior strength gives him + 1 to damage in 
any attack. He is wearing leather armor and 
has a dagger in his belt. The short sword and 
shield are of normal make. There is plate mail 
armor in the wardrobe. A key on bed-side 
table unlocks the armory (room 13). A locked 
metal box in the bottom of the ward-robe 
contains 19 gp and 20 sp. 


The west wall of this room is paneled with 
wood. If the panel nearest the north wall is 
pressed just above eye level for a normal 
human, the secret door to the treasury will 
open. One of the chairs surrounding the table 
in this corner is backed up into this corner, so 
the chair must be moved in order to open the 
door. 

42. TREASURY 


This room is empty except for a number of 
sacks along the far wall. 


This room contains most of the valuables of 
the outpost. Two small sacks contain 200 pp 
each. Six large sacks contain 500 gp each. 
Three large sacks contain 500 sp each. 
Among the sacks is a medium-sized iron box 
that is securely locked. It weighs 100 cn, and 
cannot be opened by force. A thief can pick 
the lock, or a knock spell will open it, but the 
box cannot be forced open. The box contains 
three vials, each containing a potion of 
growth, as well as a ring of fire resistance and a 
rod of cancellation. 


24 








THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 



Background 

The following legend is very well known. 
All the player characters should be quite 
familiar with it. The information of this sec 
tion can be freely given to the players. 

The Church of the Holy Sanctuary is one 
of the largest and most popular religions of 
the country in which the player characters 
live. The religion is an offshoot from the poly 
theistic faith practiced throughout most of the 
surrounding lands. It grew out of an incident 
that happened more than 300 years ago. At 
that time, there were many places dedicated 
to the worship of the gods. A small sanctuary 
in the capital city of the kingdom was one of 
those sites. 

One day, a woman who was very sick went 
to this sanctuary to pray to the gods to make 
her well again. While she was praying alone 
in the sanctuary, a being called Namyats 
appeared to the woman. He told the woman 
that the religion of her people was false, and 
that he was the only true god. To prove this, 
he laid his hands on the woman and cured her 
of her illness. He also left behind on the altar 
a wonderful magical bell. 

The bell, of ordinary size and shape, was 
made of purest platinum. What made it 
remarkable was that it had no clapper, 


Instead, it rang magically whenever it was 
picked up. 

The story of the miracle in the Holy Sanc 
tuary has spread far and wide. Each year, on 
the anniversary of the miracle, thousands of 
people flock to the small building, hoping to 
be cured by Namyats. They crowd into the 
sanctuary, a hundred or so at a time, and pray 
as the clergy sings the sacred words and lifts 
the magical bell. Most are disappointed, but so 
many have had their prayers answered that the 
religion has flourished ever since. 

All that changed about five years ago. At 
that time, there was a cleric of the Church of 
the Holy Sanctuary whose name was Elwyn. 
Elwyn was very dedicated to the Church, and 
had been well rewarded by the Patriarchs and 
Matriarchs of the Church. But that, appar 
ently, was not enough. There were rumors 
that Elwyn had begun practicing with edged 
weapons and researching the spells of the 
magic users, trying to learn the abilities of the 
other classes. This was a serious charge, 
indeed. But before anyone could prove the 
charges, Elwyn vanished without a trace. 
And to the horror of the people, the sacred 
bell of Namyats that was kept in the Holy 
Sanctuary was gone, too! 

The Church of the Holy Sanctuary has 
been in a state of crisis ever since. The faith 


ful still come to the Sanctuary on the holy 
day, but there have been no miraculous cures 
since the bell vanished. The numbers of the 
faithful have decreased in recent years. 

About two years ago, rumors of a powerful 
force began to spring up. It was said that some 
one had built a large, monstrous fortress in a 
distant section of the country, and that those 
who attempted to investigate it had not 
returned. Recently, rumors have been circulat 
ing that Elwyn might be behind this mystery. 

Because of the party's growing reputation, 
they have been asked by the King to investi 
gate the fortress, determine if Elwyn is 
involved, recover the sacred bell if it can be 
found, and bring Elwyn to justice if possible. 

The party is promised 500 gp apiece to 
investigate the fortress, 1,000 gp apiece to 
recover the bell, and an additional 1,000 gp 
apiece if they are able to bring Elwyn to jus 
tice. If the party so requests, they are given 
an advance payment of 50% with which they 
can buy non-magical equipment and sup 
plies. 

A local guide is provided to take the party 
through the wilderness to the mysterious for 
tress. He will not, under any circumstances, 
accompany the party into the fortress. 

The party arrives on the anniversary of the 
m iracle. 


25 







THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 


Notes for the Dungeon Master 

Elwyn is a woman, but the information above 
has been written in such a way so the party 
will assume Elwyn is male. Allow the party to 
believe this so that they will not realize imme 
diately that the woman's voice they hear 
when exploring the fortress is actually the 
voice of Elwyn. 

Note that the fortress is built as a double 
spiral. There is a secret corridor that runs 
alongside of the rooms and corridors through 
which the party will travel. This corridor is 
used by Elwyn to observe the party along the 
way. She occasionally provides hints to the 
party when they get bogged down (always, of 
course, in a derogatory voice accompanied 
by a diabolical laugh), feeling secure in her 
power and ability to defeat the party anytime 
she chooses. 

Unless otherwise stated, the rooms are not 
lit. The party must provide their own light. 
The only doors in the fortress (except for the 
entrance and the iron door between rooms 1 
and 2) arc secret. Once detected, they open 
easily. 

The DM should copy the two treasure 
maps ahead of time and be prepared to hand 
them out to the players. The treasure maps 
need not be drawn to scale. 

There are no wandering monsters in 
Elwyn's fortress. If desired, you can add 
wandering monster encounters in the wilder 
ness through which the party travels to reach 
the fortress, but it is important not to have the 
party seriously weakened before the adven 
ture begins! 

OUTSIDE THE FORTRESS _ 

You have traveled far into the wilderness, 
and finally you have arrived at your 
destination-the mysterious fortress that 
you suspect may harbor Elwyn and the 
mystic bell of Namyats. Your guide has 
turned back after pointing out the final 
direction you must travel. 

You follow a path that leads out of the 
forest and into a clearing. There, before 
you, is an enormous building. It is nearly 
black, and looks as if it might be made of 
iron. 

Suddenly, there is a horrid smell as four 
ugly humanoids suddenly emerge from 
the forest to your left! 


The humanoids are troglodytes. Because they 
have the ability to blend in with their 
surroundings, they surprise on a 1-4 on d6. 
Their smell is nauseating, giving their oppo 
nents a -2 penalty to their hit rolls unless the 


opponents make a saving throw vs. poison. 

The lair of the troglodytes can be found in 
the forest a short distance from the path. It 
consists of a hollow in a small clearing with an 
opening that leads to an underground lair. The 
troglodytes' treasure consists of five large 
sacks, two vials, and a piece of parchment 
with some faded writing on it. Two of the 
sacks contain 500 sp each, two contain 500 gp 
each, and one contains 500 pp. The two vials 
each contain potions of healing. The parchment 
is Treasure Map #1 (give a copy of the map to 
the players at this time), showing the location 
of the treasure in room 5. 

The party must defeat the troglodytes before 
they can enter the fortress. It is important that 
they find the lair and locate the potions and 
the treasure map. Give the players hints, or 
even a little advice, to get them to look for the 
lair. 

1. ENTRANCE 


As you emerge once again from the forest, 
you finally get a good look at the fortress. 
The walls are fully 30 feet high, and the 
jagged shape of the outside looks like a 
black dragon's teeth when it opens its 
mouth to breathe. The walls are indeed 
made of iron. There is a door visible in the 
southwest corner. 


The only entrances to the building are the 
visible entrance and the secret door near it. 
(The secret door between rooms 2 and 3 on 
the map leads to the lower level, not to the 
outside.) It is recommended that you not 
allow the party to find the secret entrance at 
this time-if they do. They avoid all the traps, 
tricks, and encounters, and find Elwyn at 
room 16a. 

The visible entrance opens easily. The cor 
ridor behind the door is dark. 


The corridor proceeds north from the door. 
After about ten feet, it opens up into a wide 
area to your left about 30 feet north-south 
by 20 feet east-west. The area appears to be 
empty. 


The area is empty. When the party has 
assembled in this room, read the following: 


A musical, low-pitched female voice fills 
the air, saying, "Who dares to enter the 
Shrine of Elwyn unbidden? Turn back! 
TURN BACK NOW, for ahead lies cer 
tain death!" The voice then breaks into a 
diabolical laugh. 


This is the voice of Elwyn, speaking from her 
secret observation corridor. The party is free 
to take her advice and leave-but this ends 
the adventure. If the party continues, wait 
until the entire party has crossed the area on 
the map indicated by a dotted line (between 
rooms 1 and 2). then read the following: 


Suddenly, you hear a resounding 
"BOOM!" behind you. When you turn 
around, you see that a solid iron door has 
descended into the corridor, blocking your 
avenue of escape. You also notice that a 
small panel in the east wall has opened. 


The open panel reveals an obvious keyhole. 
When the proper key is inserted into the hole 
and turned, the door will rise. Elwyn has the 
only key. The lock and the door cannot be 
opened by a thief's open Jocks skill, or with a 
knock spell. 

2. DAIS 


To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet north-south by about 20 feet east- 
west. The area seems to be empty except 
for a raised area occupying the middle of 
the west wall. The raised area is about half a 
foot above the floor and looks like pol 
ished stone. There is a pedestal in the middle 
of the raised area. It is about three feet high 
and two feet square, and appears to be 
made of wood. On top of the pedestal is a 
black bell. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
are needed to move it. It would be worth 500 
gp on the open market. The bell is a normal 
bell made of wrought iron, and is worth 
about 1 gp. 

The secret door between rooms 2 and 3 
leads to a stairway that is more fully described 
under room 5. It is better if the party does not 
discover it at this time. 

3. ALTAR 

If the parly has been quiet as they proceed 
north through the corridor, read the follow 
ing: 


You hear a low murmur of voices coming 
from the north. 


As the party enters the room: 


26 










FORTRESS OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 

1 SQUARE = 10 FEET 


LOWER LEVEL 






| 



5b 


f 

1 




J 


DOOR 

HIDDEN IRON DOOR 
ONE-WAY SECRET DOOR 
SECRET DOOR 
EZI ALTAR 

PIT TRAP 
CURTAIN 
STATUE 

TREASURE TROVE 
C j| TRAPDOOR IN CEILING 


B 

5a 

1 

|j 

c 

1 


UPPER LEVEL 




q8=a= 


Tl5\ 


- 

7 [I 


' 



ENTRANCE 




llli I SH. Inc. All Riglil* Rrtrrvrd 












THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 


To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The entire length of the west wall is occupied 
by an altar. The room is dimly lit by a few 
candles on the altar. Kneeling at the altar are 
six human figures wearing plate mail armor; 
they are making a low, chanting sound. 


These are six acolytes (1st level clerics) armed 
with maces. They are followers of Elwyn. If the 
door trap was triggered or the party was noisy 
coming down the corridor, the acolytes are 
aware of their coming; otherwise the party can 
surprise the acolytes. If the party tries to sneak 
past this room without alerting the acolytes, 
there is a 25 % chance they can do so. If the aco 
lytes notice the party, they attack. 

There is nothing of value in this room, and 
the acolytes are not carrying any wealth. 

4. DAIS 

To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The area seems to be empty except for an 
altar similar to the one you saw earlier. 
There is a pedestal in the middle of the altar. 
On top of the pedestal is a bell that appears 
to be made of a reddish metal. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
are needed to move it. It would be worth 500 
gp on the open market. The bell is a normal 
bell made of copper, and is worth about 5 gp. 

5. TREASURE 

OF THE TROGLODYTES 


To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The area seems to be empty. 


This is the room indicated on the treasure map 
found in the lair of the troglodytes. The room 
is empty except for the secret treasure located 
at the spot on the map marked with an "X." 
The floor in the room is hinged along the south 
wall. When the entire party has entered this 
room, Elwyn, who is observing from her 
corridor, triggers a mechanism that causes the 
floor to open up under the party... 


Suddenly, you feel the floor begin to move 
beneath your feet. As the floor swings- 
down from a hinge near the south wall, 


you fall into the darkness, landing on the 
floor below. The floor swings back into 
position above you, creating a strong gust 
of air that extinguishes all torches and lan 
terns. 

5a. TRAP ROOM 

No one in the party takes any damage from 
the slide. Party members with infravision can 
see. When light is restored, the remaining 
party members also see the following: 


You are in a room about 30 feet square. It 
appears to be empty. A corridor leads off 
in one direction. 


The room is empty. The party is now on the 
lower level of the fortress. The corridor leads 
to room 5b, and then to a series of steps that 
will return the party to the upper level, as 
shown on the map of the lower level, 

5b. ORCLAIR 


You see a large room, perhaps 50 feet long 
and 30 feet wide. There are a number of 
pallets about the room. Standing among 
the pallets are six small, ugly humanoids 
that look like a combination of animal and 
man. They are armed with short swords. 


These are five ores armed with short swords, 
and an ore leader armed with a short sword 
+ 1. The ores attack the party as soon as they 
spot them. 

If the party is using light, the ores cannot 
be surprised. If there is no light, the ores can 
be surprised, but all humans without infra 
vision receive a -4 penalty to hit rolls, and 
opponents who can see them receive a + 4 
bonus to hit rolls. 

The room contains six small sacks. One 
contains 200 gp, the others contain 200 sp 
each. The ore leader carries a small pouch 
containing 7 gems (worth 200 gp, 100 gp 
(x5), and 50 gp, respectively). The floor is lit 
tered with an assortment of bones, mostly 
human and humanoid. These are the 
remains of previous adventurers. 

The corridor leads to a stairway The stair 
way ends in a door that opens easily. This is the 
secret door between rooms 2 and 3. Do not tell 
the party where they are; let them discover it. As 
the party passes through rooms 3 and 4, read the 
descriptions of the rooms, modified by whatever 
has happened in the meantime. For example, if 
the party killed the acolytes in room 3, they find 
corpses. If they did not, the acolytes are still 
there, praying. 


When the party returns to room 5, they 
find that there is a visible border around the 
collapsing floor that is about three feet wide. 
If they wish, they can easily and safely move 
in single file to the spot marked with an "X" 
on the map. 

At the spot marked "X," there is a loose stone 
about three feet from the floor. When the 
stone is removed, a cavity behind the stone is 
found containing the following: a clerical 
scroll with three cure light wounds spells, a 
potion of polymorph self (labeled), a potion of 
growth (also labeled), a war hammer + 1, 
and another treasure map (this one leading to 
the treasure in room 9, Treasure Map #2). 

The potion of polymorph self is from the 
D&D(r) Expert Set. It allows the user to 
change shape into that of any living creature 
with hit dice or level equal to or less than his 
or her own. The transformation does not 
change the user's hit points, hit rolls, or sav 
ing throws. The user gains the physical abili 
ties of the new shape, but none of the special 
abilities (spell use, breath weapon, paralyza- 
tion attacks, etc.) The effect of the potion lasts 
for 7-12 (1 d6 + 6) turns. If the user is a spell 
caster, he cannot use his own spells while 
polym orphed. 

6. EMPTY ROOM 


To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet north-south by about 20 feet east-west. 
The area seems to be empty. 

This room is empty. 

7. DAIS 

To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet north-south by about 20 feet east-west. 
The area seems to be empty except for an 
altar similar to the one you saw ear-lier. 
There is a pedestal in the middle of the 
altar. On top of the pedestal is a bell that 
appears to be made of a shiny metal. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
are needed to move it. It would be worth 500 
gp on the open market. The bell is a normal 
bell made of brass, and is worth about 10 gp. 

8. GOLEM CHAMBER 


You sec an area to your left about 30 feet 
north-south by about 20 feet east-west. 


28 













THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 



The room contains a strange, humanoid 
creature, about three feet tall and appar 
ently made of wood. It is moving stiffly 
toward you. 


The creature is a wood golem. A golem is a 
monster created by a high-level magic user or 
cleric. Golems can be hit only by magical 
weapons. Magical attacks will work, but the 
golem is immune to sleep, charm, and hold 
spells, and to all gases. Because it is clumsy, it 
has a penalty of -1 on its initiative roll, and 
because it is made of wood, it has a penalty of - 
2 on its saving throws vs. fire-based attacks. If 
it is hit by fire, it also takes an extra point of 
damage per die. 

The room is otherwise empty. 

9. TREASURE ROOM _ 

To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The area seems to be empty. 


The room is empty, except for the secret trea 
sure located behind the wall in the spot marked 
with an "X" on the map. The treasure map 
(Treasure Map #2) found in room 5 will reveal 
its location to the party. As in room 5, the 
treasure is hidden behind a block of loose 
stone at waist height. Behind the stone is the 
following treasure: 

A smooth stick about 18 inches long. This 
is actually a wand of paralyzation (3 
charges)-any elf or magic-user recognizes it 
for what it is, and only an elf or magic-user 
can wield it. The command word is written 
on the wand. 

A sword. This is actually a normal sword + 

1 . 

A piece of rolled-up parchment. This is actu 
ally a clerical scroll containing a cure light 
wounds spell and a silence 15' radius spell. The 
silence 15' radius spell is described in the D&D(r) 
Expert Set. It will make an area 30 feet in diam 
eter totally silent for 12 turns. Conversation and 
spell use in the area of the silence spell are pre 
vented. If cast on a person, the victim must 
make a saving throw vs. Spells, or the spell 
effect will move with the victim. If the saving 
throw is successful, the spell still works, but it 
stays in one place. The victim can then leave the 
area and speak normally. 

A ring. This is actually a ring of spell stor 
ing. Its operation is fully described in the 
D&D(r) Expert Set. Once the ring is put on, 
the wearer knows what spells are in the ring 
and how to cast them from it. After a spell is 
used, the ring may be recharged by a spell 


caster, who must cast the replacement spell 
directly at the ring. The ring will not absorb 
spells cast at the wearer. The spells in the ring 
have the duration, range, and effect equal to the 
lowest level of magic use needed in order to 
cast them. This ring has two magic missile 
spells, a web spell, and a lightning bolt spell. 
The lightning bolt spell creates a 5 foot wide, 
60 foot long bolt of lightning anywhere within 
its range (180 feet). Any creature in the area of 
effect takes 5d6 points of damage. If the 
victim makes a saving throw vs. Spells, dam 
age is halved. If the lightning bolt strikes a 
solid surface before reaching its 60 foot length, 
it rebounds back toward its caster until it 
reaches full length. If it hits its caster, the caster 
takes full damage (or half damage if the caster 
makes a saving throw vs. Spells). 

10. DAIS 


To your left you see an open area about 30 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The area seems to be empty except for an 
altar similar to the ones you have seen 
throughout this strange sanctuary. There is 
a pedestal in the middle of the altar. On top 
of the pedestal is a bell that appears to be 
made of a silvery metal. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
are needed to move it. It would be worth 500 
gp on the open market. The bell is a normal 
bell made of silver, and is worth about 50 gp. 

11. STATUE 


To your right you see an open area about 10 
feet east-west by about 20 feet north-south. 
The area appears to be empty except for a 
large stone statue in the northeast corner. 
The statue is an image of Namyats. 


The statue is a living rock statue. It attacks by 
squirting magma from its fingertips as soon 
as any party member enters the space. A 
woman's diabolical laughter (Elwyn, again) 
is heard as the creature attacks. There is no 
treasure here. 

12. EMPTY ROOM 


To your right you see an open area about 
10 feet east-west by about 20 feet north- 
south. The area appears to be empty. 


29 










THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 


When the first character enters the room, a pit 
trap covering the entire 10x20 area opens up. 
The pit is 10 feet deep, and the victim takes 1 - 
6 points of damage from the fall. The room is 
otherwise empty. 

13. STATUE 


The corridor widens here to form a room 
about 30 feet north-south by about 20 feet 
east-west. The corridor continues off to the 
east. The room appears to be empty except 
for a statue of a small horse in the southeast 
comer. The statue is made of a yellowish 
metal. 


The statue is made of solid bronze, and cannot 
be moved. It is immune to any damage. If it is 
struck by a hand-held metal weapon, the 
wielder of the weapon suffers 2-5 points of 
damage from electrical shock (no saving 
throw). There is nothing else in the room. 

14. DAIS 


The corridor widens here to form a room 
about 30 feet north-south by about 20 feet 
east-west. The corridor continues off to the 
east. This area contains an altar, identical to 
the ones you have seen before. The bell on 
the altar is made of a golden metal. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
arc needed to move it. It would be worth 500 gp 
on the open market. The bell is a normal bell 
made of gold, and is worth about 500 gp. 

15. CELL 


To your right you see an open area about 
10 feet east-west by about 20 feet north- 
south. The area appears to be empty. 


The area is empty. If the entire party enters the 
room, an iron grate suddenly descends 
(triggered by Elwyn, who is watching, as 
usual), trapping the party in the room. Elwyn 
laughs diabolically. A panel opens up in the east 
wall of the corridor, across from the cell. 
Behind the panel is a keyhole with a key stuck 
in it. "Just turn the key, and freedom is yours," 
she says mockingly. The key, when turned, 
causes the portcullis to raise. 

There are several solutions available to me 
party. A knock spell cast on the keyhole causes 
me key to turn magically. If the party has the 
polymorph self potion, one member 


can drink it, change into a creature small 
enough to slip through the bars, exit the cell, 
wait for the potion to wear off (or change to a 
larger or normal form), then turn the key. A 
character can attempt to lasso the key and turn 
it in the lock by twisting the rope. This 
requires a successful hit roll with a -3 penalty, 
but unlimited attempts are allowed. Charac 
ters with a combined strength of 36 or more 
can bend the bars of the cell enough to allow 
passage; however, each character helping to 
bend the bars must make a saving throw vs. 
Paralysis or strain a muscle. The effect of a 
strained muscle is to give a character a -2 pen 
alty to hit rolls for the rest of the adventure. 
Creative players may come up with other 
unusual methods to escape this trap. Reward 
clever and creative thinking by allowing any 
reasonably good suggestion to succeed. Give a 
special award of 100 experience points to the 
player who comes up with a workable and 
creative solution to the trap. 

16. BLACK DRAGON 


The corridor widens here to form a room 
about 20 feet square. The corridor con 
tinues off to the west. A huge, black lizard 
like creature with wings is asleep and 
snoring in the comer. It has an iron collar 
around its neck and it is chained to the wall. 
There are several large sacks in the 
northwest corner. 


The creature is a young black dragon, asleep. 
The party gets one round of free attacks, with 
a + 2 bonus on all hit rolls. The chain on the 
dragon allows it to move up to 30 feet in any 
direction. If the party tries to sneak past the 
dragon, it automatically wakes up. 

The area on the map marked 16a is a secret 
door leading to the corridor from which Elwyn 
has been spying on the party. It is better if the 
party does not find the door at this time. If they 
do, proceed to the final encounter with 
Elwyn. Otherwise, the party will meet Elwyn 
here after they have been to area 21. The final 
encounter with Elwyn takes place here when 
the party tries to leave. 

17-21. THE 

INNERMOST SANCTUARY 

Read the following to the players as they 
enter the corridor that leads to area 21. 


You see a large open area, about 20 feet 
wide and more than 100 feet long. It is dimly 
lit by a few candles in sconces along the 
walls. There are four niches that 


extend out from the center aisle: two about 
30 feet from this end of the hall and two 
more almost at the end. The far ends seems 
to fade away into darkness. The walls that 
you can sec are painted with abstract 
designs in soft colors. 


This is the innermost sanctuary of Elwyn's 
fortress. The party will presumably explore the 
area as they approach area 21. Note that the 
woman portrayed in the murals located behind 
the curtains is the same in each mural. If the 
party does not realize this, tell them after they 
have seen the third mural. 

17. ALCOVE 


The west wall of this area is covered by a 
black curtain. 


If the party looks behind the curtain, they sec: 


You see a mural depicting a woman in a 
bright yellow robe with a drawn sword in 
her hand. She is surrounded by human 
victims. 


18. ALCOVE 


The east wall of this area is covered by a 
black curtain. 


If the party looks behind the curtain, they see: 


You see a mural depicting a woman in a 
lavender robe kneeling at an altar. She is 
flanked by six men wearing black robes and 
armed with maces. They arc standing at 
attention. The glint of metal armor can be 
seen under their robes. 


19. ALCOVE 


The west wall of this area is covered by a 
black curtain. 


If the parry looks behind the curtain, they see: 


You see a mural depicting a woman in a 
white robe. She is about to shoot an arrow 
from a longbow at a being who is begin 
ning to disappear into the sky. You recog 
nize the being as Namyats. 


30 
















THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 


20. ALCOVE 


The east wall of this area is revered by a 
black curtain. 


If the party looks behind the curtain, they see: 


You see a mural depicting a woman in a 
black robe about to descend into a great 
chasm. Leading her into the chasm is an 
enormous male humanoid figure covered 
with short, dark fur. Only his hands and feet 
are uncovered. He wears no clothing. 


The party member with the highest intelligence 
recognizes this being as Leptar, a chaotic crea 
ture who was long ago defeated by Namyats. 

21 . ALTAR 

Until the party has examined all four murals, 
this area is shrouded in darkness, caused by 
the clerical spell darkness, cast by Elwyn. 
(Darkness is the reverse of light, and creates a 
30 foot circle of darkness.) As soon as the 
party has examined the last of the lour 
murals, the following occurs: 


As you turn away from the mural, the 
darkness in the area to the north dissolves, 
revealing an area about 20 feet square. The 
entire area is raised about half a foot above 
the floor and looks like polished stone. 
There is a pedestal in the middle of the 
raised area. It is about three feet high, live 
feet deep, and ten feet wide, and appears to 
be made of of wood. On top of the pedestal 
is a bell that appears to be made of a silver 
metal. 


The altar is made of marble, too heavy to be 
moved. The pedestal is a solid block of 
mahogany; it can be moved, although it is 
extremely heavy. At least four party members 
are needed to move it. It would be worth 500 
gp on the open market. The bell is, of course, 
the sacred platinum bell for which the party 
has been seeking. If someone picks it up. the 
following occurs: 


As you pick up the sacred bell, it begins to 
ring. At almost the same lime, four crea 
tures appear and swoop down upon you, as 
if culled by the sound of the bell. Two of the 
creatures are ugly things with horns and 
long fangs. The other two are hard to make 
out. Their outlines seem to shimmer and 
you can almost see through them. 


The horned creatures are flying gargoyles: 
the other two creatures are shadows. They 
have emerged through the one-way secret 
doors in areas 19 and 20, and immediately 
attack the party. 

Gargoyles can only be hit with magic or 
magical weapons. They arc not affected by 
sleep and charm spells. Shadows ran only be 
hit by magical weapons. When a shadow 
stores a hit on an opponent, it drains one 
point of Strength from its victim in addition 
to causing normal damage. The loss of 
Strength lasts for eight turns, but any crea 
ture whose Strength is reduced to zero 
becomes a shadow. Shadows, like gargoyles, 
are unaffected by sleep and charm spells. 

16a. ELWYN THE ARDENT 

If the party defeats the monsters and recovers 
the sacred bell, they can then leave the for 
tress. However, as they leave, Elwyn the 
Ardent leaves her secret corridor and is wait 
ing for the party in area 16a. 

You see a woman standing in the corridor 
to the east. She is wearing a striped robe of 
bright yellow, lavender, white, and black, 
and she carries a glowing shield. She is 
clearly the woman depicted in the murals. 
There is a glint of metal armor beneath 
her robe, and on her belt is a key ring and a 
mace. As she begins to speak, you recog 
nize the voice that has taunted you 
throughout this expedition: 

"In the name of Leptar, welcome to M Y 
holy sanctuary. You have done very well; 
much better than all the other miser-able 
wretches that have tried to assault my 
fortress. I presume you found their bones 
after you defeated my ores. Oh, well, ores 
are easy to find, and they like working for 
Elwyn the Ardent. The new ones will 
enjoy feasting on YOUR bones when I get 
through with you!" 


Elwyn is wearing plate mail armor and car 
ries a shield +1. The key ring on her belt 
opens the iron door between rooms 1 and 2. 
She is armed with a mace of draning + 1. In 
addition to normal damage, this mace will, 
on command, drain one experience level 
from the character it hit, as a wight. It can 
only absorb a total of three levels. After those 
levels are used up. it becomes a normal mace 
+ 1 . 

Note that Elwyn has superior strength, 
which gives her an additional + 1 to damage 
on any attack. 



TREASURE 
MAP #2 


?H'l INK Id*. Ml Right* K"w"*rd 


31 











THE SANCTUARY OF ELWYN THE ARDENT 


Elwyn's spells are as follows: 

1st level: cause fear, darkness (used) 

2nd level: blight, hold person 3rd 
level: curse 

Most of these spells are contained in the 
D&D(r) Expert Set. 

Cause fear is the reverse of remove fear. It 
will make any one creature flee for two turns. 
The victim may make a saving throw vs. 
Spells to avoid the effect. This reversed spell 
has a range of 120 feet. 

Darkness is the reverse of light. It creates a 
circle of darkness 30 feet in diameter. Elwyn has 
already used this spell on the altar. 

Blight is the reverse of bless. It places a -1 
penalty on enemies' morale, hit rolls, and 
damage rolls. Each victim may make a saving 
throw vs. Spells to avoid the penalties. It 
affects all creatures within a 20 foot square 
area, and lasts for six turns. Elwyn casts this 
spell on the party when they first leave the 
altar. The DM should make a secret saving 
throw for each party member before they 
reach Elwyn. 


Hold person affects humans or human-like 
beings. Each victim must make a saving throw 
vs. Spells or be paralyzed for 9 turns. The spell 
may be cast at a single person or at a group. If 
cast at a single person, a -2 penalty applies to 
the saving throw. If cast at a group, it will 
affect up to 4 persons (at the cleric's choice), 
but with no penalty to their rolls. The 
paralysis may be only removed by the reverse 
spell or by a dispel magic spell. 

Curse is the reverse of remove curse. It 
causes a misfortune or penalty to affect the 
victim. Curses are limited only by the caster's 
imagination, but if an attempted curse is too 
powerful, it may return to the caster! Elwyn is 
considering a curse to make one of the par-ty's 
shoes turn to glue and stick to the floor. The 
DM, of course, may think of a more ingenious 
curse. The victim is entitled to a saving throw 
vs. Spells against the curse. 

Elwyn's strategy is to cast blight before the 
party arrives. She will then cast hold person 
followed by curse. Then, she will cast cause 
fear. Afterward, she will pull out her mace + 
1, drains life energy, and attack the party. 


If the black dragon is still alive, she frees it 
from its chain and it also attacks the party. 

Unaware that the party has acquired a web 
spell, she is standing in the narrow corridor, 
and can be quickly imprisoned if the party is 
clever. If the party uses the lightning bolt, 
they should be careful, because the rebound 
can cause a great deal of damage to their own 
side. 

Elwyn should be a tough opponent, but not 
impossible to defeat. She will never surren 
der. Once she is defeated, the party automati 
cally sees the slightly-open secret door behind 
her. Just inside the secret door is Elwyn's 
treasure: a small wooden chest containing 11 
gems (worth a total of 1650 gp), and 2 pairs of 
matching bracelets (one worth 1.000 gp each 
and the other worth 1,100 gp each). Beside 
the chest is a staff of healing. 

The party can use the key on Elwyn's belt to 
open the iron door between rooms 1 and 2, and 
exit through the front door, or they can follow 
Elwyn's secret corridor to the secret door that 
leads to the outside. 


32 




moor \ 
or rtwcriAsc 


MASTER ENCOUNTER TABLE 



ADVENTURE #1-The Clearing of Castle Caldwell 


Room Monster 


No. Hit AC HD hp 
Roll 


MV 


#AT 


D 


Save ML AL SA/SD XP 


WM 

Goblin 

4 

19 

6 

1-1 

4.5,3,6 

90'(30') 

1 

1-6 or 1-4 

NM 

7 

C 

No 

5 

31 

2 

Goblin 

4 

19 

6 

1-1 

6.6.6.4 

90' (30') 

1 

1-6 

NM 

7 

C 

No 

5 

31 

3 

Trader (Fl) 

1 

19 

6 

1 

6 

120 '(40') 

1 

1-6 

Fl 

7 

N 

No 

10 

31 

4 

Trader (Fl) 

1 

19 

6 

1 

8 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6+1 axe 

Fl 

7 

N 

N 

No 

10 

31 

5 

Trader (Fl) 

Stirge 

1 

19 

6 

1 

6 

120'(40') 

1 

1 

Fl 

7 

No 

10 

31 

10 

3 

19 

7 

1 

8.6.5 

30'(10') or 
180'(60') fly 

1 

1*3 

F2 

9 

N 

Yes 

13 

38 

11 

Acolyte (Cl) 

1 

19 

2 

1 

6 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 

Cl 

8 

C 

No 

10 

31 

14 

Crab Spider 

1 

18 

7 

2 

10 

120' < 40') 

N 

1 -8 + poison 

Fl 

7 

N 

Yes 

25 

38 

15 

15 

Bandit (Tl) 

2 

19 

6 

1 

6,6 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 

Tl 

8 

C 

No 

10 

31 

Bandit Leader 

(Tl) 

Kobold 

1 

19 

6 

1 

7 

120'(40') 

1 

1 -6-1 sword 

Tl 

8 

C 

No 

10 

31 

16 

3 

19 

7 

/a 

4.2.2 

90'(30') 

1 

1-6-1 

NM 

6 

C 

No 

5 

32 

22 

Giant Shrew 

1 

19 

4 

1 

6 

180'(60') 

2 

1-6/1-6 

Fl 

10 

N 

Yes 

13 

36 

23 

Fire Beetle 

2 

18 

4 

1+2 

6.8 

120'(40') 

1 

2-8 

Fl 

7 

N 

No 

15 

26 

24 

Spitting 

Cobra 

1 

19 

7 

1 

6 

90'(30') 

1 

1-3 + poison 

Fl 

7 

N 

Yes 

13 

37 

31 

Wolf 

2 

17 

7 2 + 2 11.12 180'(60') 1 1*6 Fl 

ADVENTURE #2 - Dungeons of Terror 

6 

N 

No 

25 

39 

Room Monster 

No. 

Hit 

Roll 

AC 

HD 

hp 

MV 

#AT 

D 

Save 

ML 

AL 

SA/SD 

XP 

P 

1 

Dopplegangcr 

1 

16 

5 

4 

18 

90'(30') 

1 

1-12 

F8 

8 

C 

Yes 

125 

28 

2 

Medium (M1) 

2 

19 

8 

1 

3.3 

120'(40') 

1 

1-4 

Ml 

12 

(: 

Yes 

13 

31 

3 

Robber Fly 

4 

18 

6 

2 

7,10,11.8 

90'(30') or 
180'(60') fly 

1 

1-8 

Fl 

8 

N 

No 

20 

36 

7 

Gelatinous 

Cube 

1 

16 

8 

4 

20 

60 '(20') 

1 

2-8 + 

? paralysis 

F2 

12 

N 

Yes 

125 

30 

10 

Berserker 

Leader 

1 

18 

7 

1 + 1 

9 

120 ' (40 ') 

1 

1-6+1 sword 

Fl 

12 

N 

Yes 

19 

27 

10 

Berserker 

3 

18 

7 

1 + 1 

9.6.6 

120'(40' ) 

1 

1-6 

Fl 

12 

N 

Yes 

19 

27 

13 

Thoul 

3 

17 

6 

3 

9,14,15 

120'(40') 

1 

1-3/1-3 

F3 

10 

C 

Yes 

65 

38 

14 

Wight 

2 

17 

5 

3 

18,15 

90'(30' ) 

1 

F.nergy drain 

F3 

12 

C 

Yes 

50 

39 


ADVENTURE #3-The Abduction of Princess Sylvia 


Room Monster 

1 Gr"hlin 

No. 

1 

Hit 

Roll 

19 

AC 

6 

HD 

1-1 

hp 

4 

MV 

90'(30') 

#AT 

1 

D 

1-6 

Save 

NM 

ML 

7 

AL SA/SD 

C No 

XP 

5 

P 

31 

1 

Lizard Man 

1 

17 

5 

2+ 1 

11 

60'(20') 

1 

1-6 + 1 

F2 

12 

N No 

25 

33 

2a 

Yellow Mold 

1 

N/A 

N/A 

2 

7 

0 

1 

1-6 + special 

F2 

N/A 

N Yes 

25 

39 

2a 

Green Slime 

1 

18 

N/A 

2 

9 

3'(D 

1 

Special 

Fl 

7 

L Yes 

30 

31 

3 

Illusory 

Owl Bear 

1 

16 

9 

5 

N/A 

120'(40') 

3 

1-8/1-8/1-8 

F3 

12 

N No 

0 

35 

5 

Goblin King 

1 

17 

4 

3 

15 

90'(30') 

1 

1-6+2 sword 

NM 

9 

C No 

35 

31 

5 

Goblin Guard 

2 

18 

5 

2 

8.9 

90'(30') 

1 

1-6 

NM 

8 

C No 

20 

31 

6 

Goblin 

5 

19 

6 

1-1 

5 each 

90'(30') 

1 

1-6 

NM 

7 

C No 

5 

31 

8 

Lizard Man 
Leader 

1 

16 

3 

4 

15 

60'(20') 

1 

1-6 +2 ST 

F2 

12 

N No 

75 

33 

8 

Lizard Man 
Guard 

2 

16 

4 

3+ 1 

14.13 

60'(20') 

1 

1-6 + 1 

F2 

12 

N No 

50 

33 

9 

Lizard Man 

3 

17 

5 

2+1 

13,9,12 

60'(20') 

I 

1-6 + 1 

F2 

12 

N No 

25 

33 

11 

Goblin 

1 

19 

6 

1-1 

4 

90'(30') 

90'(30') 

1 

1-4 

NM 

5 

C No 

5 

31 

12 

Goblin 

1 

19 

6 

1-1 

5 

1 

1-4 

NM 

5 

C No 

5 

31 

13 

Princess 

Sylvia 

1 

N/A 

8 

1 

3 

120'(40') 

0 

0 

NM 

9 

I. No 

5 

31 

13 

Owl Bear 

1 

16 

5 

5 

30 

120'(40') 

3 

1-8/1-8/1-8 

F3 

9 

C No 

175 

35 

13 

Oliver of 

Horn (M4) 

1 

19 

7 

4 

12 

120'(40') 

1 

1-4 + 1 
dagger 

M4 

9 

C Ye'- 

175 

31 



ADVENTURE #4-The Great Escape 


Room Monster No. Hit AC HD hp MV #AT D Save ML AL SA/SD XP P 

_ Roll 

WM Veteran (FI) lor2 19 7 l 7 each 120'(40') 1 1-4 FI 8 N No 10 31 

1 Gnoll 1 18 5 2 8 90'(30') 1 1-4 or 1-6 + 1 F2 8 C No 20 30 

2 Male Servant 6 19 9 1 3 each 120'(40') 0 0 NM 6 N No 5 31 

2 Female 6 19 9 1 2 each 120 '(40') 0 0 NM 6 N No 5 31 

Servant 

6 Veteran (FI) 1 19 8 1 7 120'(40') 1 1-6 + 1 ST Fl 9 N No 10 31 

17 Veteran (FI) 2 19 7 l 6.5 120'(40') 1 1-4 Fl 9 N No 10 31 

19 Commander 1 16 6 4 24 120'(40') 1 1-4+2 F4 10 L No 75 31 

(F4) ST/DX 

19 Wife (NM) 1 19 9 1 3 120'(40 ) 0 0 NM 8 L No 5 31 

19 Visiting 1 17 6 3 16 120'(40') 1 1-4 + 1 ST F3 9 N No 35 31 

Officer (F3) 

24 Veteran (Fl" 1 l 1 ' 1 -> 120'(40') I 1-6 Fl 8 N No in 31 

27 Warrior (F2) 1 19 6 2 8 120'(40') I 1-6 +2 ST F2 9 N No 20 31 

32 Veteran (FI) 1 19 16 120'(40') 1 1-6 Fl 8 N No 10 31 

36 Veteran (Fl) 1 19 7 1 6 120'(40') 1 1-6 Fl 8 N No 10 31 


41 

Warrior (F2) 

1 

19 

6 

2 

8 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 

F2 

9 

N 

No 

20 

31 




Adventure #5 

- The Sanctuary of Elwyn the Ardent 





Room 

Monster 

No. 

Hit 

Roll 

AC 

HD 

hp 

MV 

#AT 

D 

Save 

ML 

AL 

SA/SD 

XP 

P 

- 

Troglodyte 

4 

18 

5 

2 

12,14,10,10 

120'(40') 

3 

1-4/1-4/1-4 

F2 

9 

C 

Yes 

30 

38 

3 

Acolyte (Cl) 

6 

19 

2 

1 

6 each 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 

Cl 

7 

C 

No 

10 

31 

5b 

Ore Leader 

1 

18 

5 

2 

9 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 + 1 
sword 

Fl 

9 

c 

No 

20 

35 

5 b 

Ores 

5 

19 

5 

l 

6 each 

120 '(40') 

1 

1-6 

Fl 

8 

c 

No 

10 

35 

8 

Wood Golem 

1 

17 

7 

2 + 2 

14 

120'(40') 

1 

1*8 

Fl 

12 

N 

Yes 

35 

E50 

11 

Rock Living 
Statue 

1 

16 

4 

5 

23 

60'(20') 

2 

2-12/2-12 

F5 

11 

c 

Yes 

300 

32 

16 

Black Dragon 

1 

16 

2 

7 

28 

90'(30') or 
240'(80') fly 

3 

2-5/2-5/2-20 

F7 

8 

c 

Yes 

1250 

28 

21 

Gargoyle 

2 

16 

5 

4 

18.13 

90'(30') or 
150'(50') fly 

4 

1-3/1-3/1-6/ 
1-4 

F8 

11 

c 

Yes 

125 

30 

21 

Shadow 

2 

17 

7 

2 + 2 

9,12 

90'(30') 

1 

1-4 + special 

F2 

12 

c 

Yes 

35 

36 

16 

F.lwvn (C6) 

1 

17 

1 

6 

24 

120'(40') 

1 

1-6 +2 
special 

C6 

12 

c 

Yes 

500 

31 



ABBREVIATIONS 



No. - Number Appearing 

AL " Alignment 

N - 

Neutral 

Hit Roll  Hit Roll needed to hit AC 0 

SA/SD ¦ Special Attacks/Special Defenses 

C - 

Chaotic 

(subtract AC of victim to get actual hit roll 

XP  Experience Points 

NM 

¦ Normal Man 

needed) 

P  Page Number (in D&D(r) Basic Set 

ST - 

Strength 

AC - Armor Class 

Dungeon Masters Rulebook, or, if the 

DX 

¦ Dexterity 

HD - Hit Dice 

number begins with "E" in the D&D(r) 

cp - 

copper piece 

hp - hit points 

Expert Set Rulebook) 

sp - 

silver piece 

MV - Movement Rate 

WM ¦ Wandering Monster 

ep - 

elect rum piece 

#AT - Number of Attacks 

F - Fighter 

SP " 

gold piece 

D " Damage 

C ¦ Cleric 

PP " 

platinum piece 

Save - Save as: 

M " Magic User 

cn ¦ 

coin (a measure of weight) 

ML - Morale 

L " Lawful 



*198} TSR. Int All Righti Rrcrvcd 





* 



46363 09143 


Basic Game Adventure 


Castle Caldwell and Beyond 

Harry Nuckols 


Five exciting short adventures to make your 
Basic campaign come alive! 

The Clearing of Castle Caldwell-A local mer 
chant has recently purchased a small castle 
...but when he tried to move in, he discovered 
that the castle was already inhabited! 

Dungeons of Terror-A strange trapdoor in the 
floor of Castle Caldwell leads to a terrifying 
challenge! 

The Abduction of Princess Sylvia-On the eve 
of her wedding, the beautiful princess has been 
kidnapped! Can you save her in time? 

The Great Escape-Imprisoned in an enemy 
fortress, without armor or weapons, your situ 
ation seems hopeless. Yet there may be a way 
to freedom... 

The Sanctuary of Elwyn the Ardent-A mysti 
cal chime of great power has been stolen-but 
by whom? In the wrong hands, the chime can 
cause untold harm! But can you find and defeat 
this mysterious and powerful creature? 

This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS' Basic Set, and cannot be played 
without the D&D' Basic rules produced by TSR, 


< 1985 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in (J.S.A. 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge. CBI 4AD 
United Kingdom 


TSR. Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
Wl53147 


0-88038-200-7 

ISBN 394-54840-XTSR0600 


9143XXX1401 




























