Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 02181 Caves Of Shadow"
See other formats
; 'T 


L iJ ps * flni 



j ^ 

1 

, *4 S. 

\ V t rHahk.t_f till 

M ? + '-w ' 

t 1 1 ''¦a. t? 

" 1) 


f> 

jt/KSr* 


V J| • 

f MJfMr. ft 

"A W ^ByraMy- V 








1 



WHAT IS THIS? 

This game allows you and your friends to experience 
the Du ngeons & Dragons game in an easy-to-learn 
format. In this game, you use your imagination to take 
the role of a fantastic hero and to fight against horrible 
evil. If you like the idea of mighty warriors, powerful 
magic, and fantastic monsters, you will like this game. 


I 




Design: 

Editing: 

Cover 11 lustration: 
Cartography: 
Typesetting: 
Creative Director: 
Graphic Design: 
Thanks: 


CREDITS 

M onteCook 
David Noonan 
Todd Lockwood 
Todd Gamble 
Cynthia Fliege 
M ikeSelinker 
Sean Glenn, Cynthia Fliege 
Jeff Grubb,JonathanTweet 


Based on the original Dungeons & Dragons game by 
E. Gary Gygax and Dave A meson. 


This Fast-Play game is designed to give you a feel for 
playing the Dungeons & DRAGONS(r)game. The full 
game contains all sorts of optionsthat will help you 
create your own fantasy characters and play many 
swords-and-sorcery adventures. 

We call this a Fast-Play game because you can begin 
playing right now. Just gather your friends and get 
ready for adventure! 

HOW DO WE PLAY? 

U nlike other games, the Du ngeons & Dragons game 
doesnt have a board or playing pieces, and you don't 
play it on a computer. In this game, you take the role of 
a hero in your imagination. Your imagination is where 
this game takes place. And the Dungeons & Dragons 
game involves not only your imagination, but those of 
your friends at the same time. 

LET'S GET GOING! 

Your first step is to get everything you need to play: 

• Your friends (up to four of them, not including you). 

• This booklet. 

• A pencil or two. 

• And at least 3 six-sided dice. 

Second, decide who will be the Dungeon M aster. The 
Dungeon Master ("DM "for short) controls the events 
of thegameand getsto play the monsters that theother 
characters fight. The DM is like a storyteller, so think 
about that as you choose who fills this role. The rest of 
the information in this booklet is for the DM, so hand 
the booklet to that player now if it's not you. 

The DM coordinates the actions that take place in 
the game. I f you're the D M, you're the moderator and 
the referee. You tel I the other pi ayers wh at thei r charac 
ters see and hear. You help them resolve the success or 
failure of actions they want to undertake. 

You also choose actions for the other characters in 
the story. U sually, these are the "bad guys." So, if a 
player's character gets into afight with awolf, you help 


2 










the player determine whether she hits and how serious 
the wound is. At the same time, you decide what the 
wolf does, and you resolve its actions. 

Third, the other players pick characters from the 
center of the booklet. Take the center four pages out of 
the book and cut them apart so that each player has 
one. I t's 0 K for someone to take more than one charac 
ter if there arent enough players. 

Like the characters of a book, Regdar, M ialee, Jozan, 
and Lidda are the heroes who go out and experience 
the events of the story. They're the stars of the show, 
andtheDM is the director. 

Each player gets to decide what her character does at 
any given moment. When the DM tel Is the players that 
their characters see a dark, damp cave filled with fero 
cious trolls, the players get to decide whether to attack 
the trolls, attempt to talk to them, run away, or do any 
thing else they can think of. The characters usually act 
as a group, but each player portrays her character indi 
vidually. Each character tries to defeat evil monsters, 
gain treasure, and do good deeds. 

THE CHARACTERS 

For this game, the characters are provided on charac 
ter sheets in the center of the booklet. The character 
sheets tel I what each character can do (such as strike 
with a sword, pick a lock, or cast a spell), and they show 
what each character looks like. 

The DM doesn't get a character sheet. Instead, the 
rest of this booklet works I ike a character sheet for you, 
because it descri bes what happens i n the adventure and 
what characters and monsters you get to play. 

The players should look at their character sheets for a 
few minutes.The DM should keep reading this booklet. 

THE GAME SESSION 

This Fast-Play game leads you through a game ses 
sion- an adventure just like one in the D&D game. 
You will find the rules explained as you need them, so 
there's no need to memorize anything. 

The adventure is divided up into encounters. Each 
encounter has a number that corresponds to an area of 
the map. Each encounter has its own directions and 
rules, so you dont need to read ahead to other encoun 
ters. But if you have time, it's helpful to skim ahead to get 
a sense of what happens in each of the seven encounters. 


For each encounter, follow the directions, describe 
each situation as it occurs to the players, and feel free to 
add your own details. If you decide that an area has a 
spooky wind blowing through it, that's OK. You're the 
DM, so you can decide such things. 

W hen the players tell you what they want to do, you 
tell them whether they are successful and what hap 
pens when they try something. The directions and rules 
for each encounter help you make these decisions. 

The game is based on dice rolling and discussion. 
There's no need to run around and act out the events, 
although gestures and facial expressions might help 
convey what you're trying to say. Players can speak in 
the voice of their character ("I attack the ore") or refer 
to their characters in the third person ("M ialee casts 
her spell"). You can use different voices as you play the 
monsters (a gruff, low voice for the ores, or a kindly but 
shaken tone for the old man), or you can simply 
descri be the scenes I ike a narrator in amovie. 

DUNGEON MASTER ADVICE 

In this booklet, you can find many things to help you 
manage the adventure. First, the map on the next page 
provides a visual aid for the setting. It shows where the 
important locations are, and how big each room is. You 
can al so use the i 11 u strati on s throughout this bookl et to 
help describe the monsters or the setting, just like the 
illustrations on the character sheets help you visualize 
each character. 

If you flip through the booklet, you'll see text in 
shaded boxes.This iscalled "read aloud"text because it's 
meant to be read to the players to descri be the setti ng 
and the situation. 

Boxed text tells you how to handle the battles that 
occur as the characters explore. Don't read it aloud 
to the players. It's information to help you manage 
the fights. 












THE CAVES OF SHADOW 

Once the players have looked over their character 
sheets, you can start to play. Begin by reading the boxed 
text to the players. Once you start the numbered 
encounters, the read-aloud text often ends with a ques 
tion posed to the players. Their answer to thisquestion 
helps them decide what thei r characters do. 

Remember that not every character must do the 
same thing. Jozan can attack an ore while M ialee casts a 
spell and Regdar tries to open the door. You tell them 
the results of their actions: "Jozan hits the ore, M ialee's 
spell blasts another ore, and Regdar cant seem to get 
the door open." It's easiest if the players take turns 
telling you what their character is doing. That way you 
can handle each action individually. 


When something isnt covered in the rules, make up 
your own answer. That's the job of the DM . If M ialee's 
player wants her to climb up the side of a wall so she 
can leap down on a foe, you need to decide whether 
that works. It's challenging, but it's what makes role- 
playing such a great experience. The characters can do 
anything the players can think of. 

Read the foil owing text to the players: 

Each of you controls a character- a fighter, a 
rogue, a wizard, or a cleric.These characters live in 
a fantasy world where magic works and evil mon 
sters threaten the lives of innocent people. Fortu 
nately, this dangerous world has defenders who 
fight against the forces of evil and keep them at 
bay. As valiant heroes, each of your characters is 
dedicated to ridding the world of evil. 

As we play, I describe the setting and the action 
as it occurs. Tel I me when your character wants to 
do something. 

F i rst, let's have everyone i ntraduce your characters. 


H ave each player briefly describe his or her character 
so that each player knows what everyone else can do. 
Then read the foil owing text to the players: 


Long ago, the forces of darkness rose up and 
threatened the land. In those ancient days, the evil 
forces carved out the Caves of Shadow and dwelled 
within them, often striking out to raid nearby vil 
lages. Powerful heroes eventually drove away the 
creatures that populated the Caves of Shadow. But 
now ores, vile humanoids who hate humans and 
elves, have begun attacking the villages again. 
There's only one place the foul creatures could be 
coming from: the Caves of Shadow! 

The villagers have asked you to investigate the 
caves and destroy or drive off the evil creatures 
that might live within. If you can succeed, the 
people of the surrounding countryside can resume 
their peaceful lives. 


Proceed to the start of the adventure, Outside the Caves. 






















k OIJTSIDE THE CAVES 

Read the foil owing text to the players: 

You've made your way through dark woodlands. 
The clear summer sky is obscured by the clawing 
bran ches. A I i ght breeze sti rs th e u ndergrowth. U p 
ahead you see the rocky crags that hide the Caves 
of Shadow. As you approach, you can see the 
mouth of the cave, but there seems to be some sort 
of activity in front of it. As you watch, two large, 
bestial figures menace a frail-looking old man. The 
creatures carry nasty-looking spears and seem to 
threaten the man, who cowers on the ground. The 
creatures have flat faces marked by narrow eyes 
and small tusks. 

The creatures are ores. They've just attacked the old 
man, a merchant who was making his way through the 
woods with a small cart of trade goods. Other ores have 
taken the cart into the caves while these two ores tor 
mented the old man. 

The characters have many options at this point. 
Some common choices aredetailed below. 

Attack the Creatures and Help the Old Man 
This is the most heroic thing to do. The ores immedi 
ately move to fight back, and the old man cowers out of 
the way. Refer to H andling the Fight, at right. 

Watch 

If the characters decide to watch from where they are, 
the ores continue to torment and bully the old man for 
quite some time. Ask the players if they want to do any 
thing. If the characters still dont intervene, tell them 
that it seems obvious that the ores are going to kill the 
old man. Ask them again if they want to do anything. If 
the answer is still no, then the ores kill the old man, 
and the characters arent being heroic.They've also lost 
an opportunity to discover some important informa 
tion from theold man. 

Leave 

The characters can turn tail and leave the caves. That 
decision isnt heroic. U ntil they decide to come back, 
the game is over. 

Attack the Old Man 

This is a terrible course of action, and you should dis 
couraged it. Ask the players again whether they're sure 


they want to do such an evil thing.The old man isweak 
and hurt, so even a single swing from a character brings 
him down. 


HAND! ING THF FIGHT 

When the characters get into a fight with the ores, 
proceed through the combat by taking turns. First, 
let each character do one thing, such as attack an 
ore or cast a spell. Then let each ore do one thing, 
such as attack a character. Go back and forth 
between the characters and the ores until the 
battle is over. Ask each player what his character 
does, one at a ti me. W hen they're al I done, tel I 
them what the ores do. 

First, make an Attack roll. W hen a character 
attacks an ore, the player rolls 3 dice and adds the 
Attack bonus indicated on his sheet. If the player 
gets a 13 or better, his or her character hits. If the 
player got less than 13, it's a miss. M ove on to the 
next character. 

If a character hits, the player rolls for damage. 
Determine how much damage the character deals 
by rolling the dice listed on the character sheet as 
"damage." M ialee and Liddaroll 1 die for damage. 
Jozan rolls 1 die and adds +2. Regdar rolls 2 dice 
and adds +2. M ark off the amount of damage from 
the ore's hit points, shown below. An ore who has 
lost some (but not all) of its hit points is wounded. 
If an ore loses all its hit points, it is dead. When 
both ores are dead, the battle is over. 

Ore #1: o o o o o o 

Ore #2: o o o o o o 

M i al ee and J ozan can cast spel I s. I f a character 
casts a spell, follow the spell's instructions on the 
character sheet. M ialee and Jozan can cast a spell 
instead of attacking. 

When all the players have acted, it's the ores' 
turn. Each ore attacks one of the characters. For 
each ore, roll 3 dice and add 1. If the result is equal 
to or better than the Armor Class of the character 
it is attacking, the ore hits. If the ore hits, roll 1 die 
damage. FI ave the player whose character was hit 
mark off the hit points. That character is now 
wounded. Characters who lose all hit points are 
dead and can no longer act. (Remind the players 
that Jozan's cure light wounds spel Is can restore lost 
hit points.) 









Tell a good story. As you play through the battle, 
describe the action as if you were all watching a 
fantasy action movie. Tell the players about the 
howling, ferocious ores stabbing with their cruel 
spears. Describe how the ores die, clutching their 
wounds. 


Once the ores are defeated, the characters have more 
options to choose from. 

Talk to the Old Man 
The old man's name isjeffries, and he's very grateful to 
the characters who saved him from the ores. As DM, 
you pi ay Jeffries for the short time that he's involved in 
the game. You decide his actions and speak for him. 
H e's got some important things to say to the characters. 
He has information that will help them during the rest 
of the adventure. 

Jeffries is so grateful that he'll be glad to answer any 
questions, although he's pretty shaken up. H ere are 
some answers to questions the characters might ask: 

•Who are you? 

"My name isjeffries. I'm a merchant from the village 
across the woods." 

•What are you doing here? 

"1 was taking my cart through theforest with goods to 
trade when these ores attacked me and took all of my 
belongings.They even took my cart!" 

•W hat are those creatures? 

"OrcsiTerrible creatures, arent they? I think they were going 
to kill me.l saw their I eaderaswell.it was a huge ogre!" 

•W hy were they attacki ng you? 

"They stole my cart and everything I was carrying to 
town to trade. I even had a box with some magical 
potions and a magical sword. I think they took it all in 
the caves." 

•W hat do you want to do now? 

"i've got to get out of here. I f you go i nto the caves, 
you can have my potions and sword if you want. Just 
promise me that you will rid us of these evil creatures!" 

At the end of their conversation, Jeffries goes off into 
the woods. Nothing can convince him to go into the 
caves with the characters or to help fight ores. H e's an 
old man and notagood fighter. 


No matter what questions the characters ask, 
Jeffries should relate two pieces of the information to 
the characters: 

• Ores live in the cave, and an ogre leads them. 

• There are magic potions and a magic axe hidden 
within the caves somewhere. The characters can keep 
the treasure if they defeat the ores and their leader. 

Examine the Creatures 
U p close, the characters can see that the ores wore tat 
tered clothing and armor, and each ore carried a spear. 
The characters are free to take these things, but none of 
them are worth much. Each ore also has 5 gold coins in 
a pouch at its belt, however. 

Look into the Cave 

Read the foil owing text to the players: 

You can seeaflickering light at theend of a long tunnel 
that leads into the cliff-face.The cave looks empty. 

Enter the Cave 

I f the characters enter the cave, go to Area 2: Empty Cave. 

2: EMPTY CAVE 

This long tunnel has obviously been carved out of the 
earth long ago with tools. The Caves of Shadow, 
it appears, are not natural caves at all, but worked 
passages created years ago. The floors and walls 
are smoother and flatter than they would be in a 
natural cave. 

The tunnel ends where an old torch has been 
mounted to the wal I. I ts I azy fl ame I i ghts the area di mly. 
From here, you see one passage leading off to the left 
aid another leadi ng off to the right. You cant see much 
either way. From the left passage, you hear bestial 
grunting noises. From the right passage, you hear the 
faint dripping of water. 

This room isjustan empty intersection.The charac 
ters can take the torch from the wal I if they want. 

The main decision that the characters need to make 
is whether to go left or right.The choice is up to them. 
If they're eager to get into afight, they may want to go 
toward the bestial noises that the ores down the left 
passage are making. If the characters go to the left, 













REGDAR 

H uman Fighter 


Regdar is a champion of good, pledging his mighty 
sword to thecause of justice. H efightsto cut down evil 
and to gain skill and experience for hiscrusade. Of all 
the weapons he has been trained to use, Regdar prefers 
a two-handed greatsword, even though it keeps him 
from protecting himself with a shield. 

Regdar's job on an adventuring team is to kill the 
monsters and protect his teammates. 

ACTIONS 

Regdar may attempt any of the following types of 
actions. When he does, roll 3 dice and add or subtract 
the indicated bonus or penalty. The DM will tell you 
whether your total was high enough to succeed. 

Attack: +3 bonus Climb: +2 bonus 

Jump: +4bonus Knowledge: -1 penalty 

Open Lock:-10penalty Push/Pull: +2bonus 



MIALEE 

Elf Wizard 


M ialee discovered her magic powers when she was 
young, and she's been learning how to cast spells ever 
since. H er goal is to become a master wizard, so she's 
always eager to test her magic against enemies. 

Elves are short, slender people who live in the 
woods. They're renowned for the arts of magic, sword- 
fighting, and song. 

M ialee'sjob on an adventuring team is to cast her 
spells to support her teammates and help them deal 
with the monsters. As an elf, she's also a good shot with 
a bow. 

ACTIONS 

M ialee may attempt any of the following types of 
actions. When she does, roll 3 dice and add or subtract 
the indicated bonus or penalty. The DM will tell you 
whether your total was high enough to succeed. 

Attack: +1 bonus Climb: -1 penalty 

Jump: -1 penalty Knowledge: +2 bonus 

Open Lock:-10penalty Push/Pull: -1 penalty 

















1 die with bow 


f 


DAMAGE 


2 dice+2 with greatsword 


DAMAGE 


i 


i 





if the DM tells you that M ialee's bow hits, roll 1 die. 
That's how much damage the bow deals. 

ARMOR CLASS 

Armor Class: 12 

I f a foe attacks M ialee, it must roll a 12 or better to hit her. 

HIT POINTS 

o o o o o o 

M ark off these boxes as M ialee suffers damage and 
wounds. M ialee dies if all the boxes are filled in. 

SPELLS 

M ialee can cast any one of these spells instead of 
attacking: 

Magic Missile 

This spell fires an energy arrow that automatically hits 
and deals 1 die of damage. 

M ialee can castthisspell twiceduringtheadventure. 
M ark off the spell each time M ialee casts it. 

o o 


IftheDM tel Is you that Regdar's greatsword hits, roll 2 
dice and add 2 to the result. That's how much damage 
the greatsword deals. 

ARMOR CLASS 

Armor Class: 14 

I f a foe attacks Regdar, it must rol I a 14 or better to hit h i m. 

HIT POINTS 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

O 

M ark off these boxes as Regdar suffers damage and 
wounds. Regdar dies if all the boxes are filled in. 

STRATEGY 

Regdar is tough, and he deals mighty blows with his 
greatsword, so he should protect the other characters 
by going into danger first. Regdar is the strongest 
member of the group. 


Detect Magic 

Thisspell allows M ialee to know when magicisnearby 
and whether any item she looks at is magical. 



She can cast this spell twice during the adventure. 
M ark off the spell each time she casts it. 


J -i 


STRATEGY 



M ialee is not a strong combatant but she is very good at 
casting spells. This means that it's probably smart for 
her to stay beh i nd th e fron11 i n es and use h er spel I s and 
bow. M ialee is the smartest member of the group. 





















IOZAN 

H uman Cleric 



LIDDA 

H alfling Rogue 


Jozan is a loyal follower of Pelor, a mighty sun god 
devoted to the cause of good and justice. Pelor expects 
jozan to serve him by fighting evil monsters wherever 
Jozan finds them. In return, Pelor grantsjozan the abil 
ity to cast powerful spells. 

Jozan's job on the adventuring team is to heal his 
teammates with spellsand help kill the monsters. 

ACTIONS 

Jozan may attempt any of the following types of 
actions. When he does, roll 3 dice and add or subtract 
the indicated bonus or penalty. The DM will tell you 
whether your total was high enough to succeed. 


Lidda is a halfling. Halflings are about half as 
tall as humans, and they tend to be sneaky. Lidda is 
no exception. 

Lidda'sjob on an adventuring team isto handletricky 
things, such as locked doors or potential traps. I n 
combat, she does well if she can make a sneak attack 
against her opponents. 

ACTIONS 

Lidda may attempt any of the following types of 
actions. When she does, roll 3 dice and add or subtract 
the indicated bonus or penalty. The DM will tell you 
whether your total was high enough to succeed. 


Attack: 

+2 bonus 

Climb: 

+1 bonus 

Attack: +1 bonus 

Climb: 

+3 bonus 

Jump: 

+1 bonus 

Knowledge: 

+1 bonus 

Jump: -1 penalty 

Knowledge: 

40 bonus 

Open Lock: -10 penalty 

Push/Pull: 

+1 bonus 

Open Lock: +4 bonus 

Push/Pull: 

40 bonus 













DAMAGE 


1 die with short sword. 

If the DM tells you that Lidda's short sword hits, roll 1 
die. That's how much damage the short sword deals. 


SNEAK ATTACK 


One time during each fight Lidda can make a sneak 
attac k t h at d eal s 2 d i ce of d am age rath er th an j u st 1 d i e. 
When Lidda makes her sneak attack, she rolls 2 dice 
for damage. 




ARMOR CLASS 


Armor Class: 13 

I f a foe attacks Lidda, it must rol I a 13 or better to hit her. 




1 


HIT POINTS 


o o o o o o o 

M ark off these boxes as Lidda suffers damage and 
wounds. Liddadiesif all the boxes are filled in. 


DAMAGE 


ldie+2 with mace 

IftheDM tel Is you that J ozan's mace hits, roll ldieand 
add 2 to the result. That's how much damage the mace 
deals. 


ARMOR Cl ASS 


Armor Class: 14 

I f a foe attacks J ozan, i t m u st rol I a 14 or better to h i t h i m. 


HIT POINTS 


ooooooooo 

M ark off these boxes as J ozan suffers damage and 
wounds. Jozan dies if all the boxes are filled in. 


SPELLS 


Jozan can cast any one of these spells instead 
of attacking: 

CureLightWounds 

Thisspell restoreshit points to anyonejozan wishes. Erase 
all the marks i nsi de the boxes on that character sheet. 


I 



STRATEGY 

Lidda is sneaky, so she can sneak ahead and look 
around. If Lidda rolls 3 dice and gets a lo or better, she 
can see into a room without any foes seeing her. She 
can return to tell her friends what she sees. If she gets 
less than 10, she's spotted and her friends must rush up 
to help her fight the foes (unless there was no one in 
the room to begin with). 

Lidda is the quickest member of the group. 



Jozan can cast this spell twice during the adventure. 
Mark off the spell each time Jozan casts it. 

o o 


Bless 

Thisspell adds 1 to their Attack bonus of each of J ozan's 
friendsfor onefight. 

H e can cast this spell twice during the adventure. 
Mark off the spell when he casts it. 

o o 


STRATEGY 

Jozan is a strong combatant and can cast spells. H e can 
run forward to attack his enemies or cast his spells to 
help others. Jozan is the wisest member of the group. 




















describe the connecting passage for them and goto 
Area 3: Guard Post. If they go to the right, goto Area 4: 
Crossing the Crevice. 


3: GUARD POST 


As you reach the end of the passage, you see into a 
room with a closed wooden door on the opposite 
wall. I n the middle of the room are a small table 
and afew chairs. It looks like someone was eating 
here. Remnants of a nasty dinner remain on an 
iron pi ate on the table. 

Standing near the table is an ore, its spear at the 
ready. A horrible, bristle-haired rat the size of a 
large dog sits next to the ore. Its yellow teeth glis 
ten with saliva as it glares at you. 

What do you do? 


No matter what the characters do, this ore and his pet 
rat attack. 


HANDLING THE FIGHT 

Play through the combat by taking turns, just 
I ike before. 

ATTACKS: When a character attacks a foe, the 
player rolls 3 dice and adds the Attack bonus indi 
cated on her sheet. I f a character attacks the ore, 
the player needs to roll a 13 or better to hit. But if a 
character attacks the rat, he needs 14 or better to 
hitit. 

DAMAGE: Determine how much damage the 
character does by rolling the dice listed on the 
character sheet. M ark off the amount of damage 
from the hit points of theorcor rat, below. 

HIT POI NTS: The ore has 6 hit points, and the 
rat has 5 hit points. If the ore or rat loses all of its 
hit points, it is dead and can no longer act. When 
both Foes are dead, the battle is over. 

Ore: o o o o o o 

Rat: o o o o o 

M AGIC: If a character casts a spell, follow the 
spell's instructions on the character sheet. M ialee 
and Jozan can cast a spell instead of attacking. 

THE MON STERS'TURN: When all the players 
have acted, it's the monsters' turn. First, pick a 
character for the ore to attack. Roll 3 dice and add 


1. If the result is equal to or better than the Armor 
Class of the character the ore attacks, the ore hits. 
If it does, roll 1 die for damage. H ave the player 
whose character was hit mark off the hit points. If 
a character loses all of his or her hit points, the 
character is dead and can no longer act. 


N ext, pick a character for the rat to attack. The rat 
is trained to attack a different character from the 
one attacked by the ore. Roll 3 dice. If the result is 
equal to or better than the Armor Class of the char 
acter it attacks, the rat hits. If it does, roll 1 die for 
the rat's damage. 

DESCRIPTION: As you play through the battle, 
describe the action as if you were all watching a 
fantasy action movie.. Tell the players about the 
sneering, devious ore and the vicious, mangy rat 
with razor-sharp teeth. 



After the fight is over, the characters have a 
few options. 

Examine the Ore and the Rat 


The ore has a spear and a small pouch containing 5 gold 
pi eces. The rat has nothi ng, of course. 

Check the Table 

There's some half-eaten food on the plate. It's also obvi 
ous that the ore threw scraps on the floor for the rat. 
The whole scene is a little disgusting. 

Check the Door 


.1 

4 




The door is made of sturdy wood. It's locked. 
Any character can attempt to pick the lock or bash 
down the door. 

To pick the lock, a player should roll 3 dice and add 
the Open Lock bonus listed on her character sheet. If 
sh e gets a 15 or better, th e I ock open s w i th a cl i ck. 0 n I y 
Lidda has a chance to pick the lock. 

If Lidda can't open the lock, the characters can 
attempt to push thedoor in. If a character triesto break 
the door down, have the player roll 3 dice and add the 
character's Push/Pull bonus listed on the character 
sheet. (M ialee should subtract her Push/Pull penalty 
instead.) If the result is 15 or better, the character 
smashes open the door. The characters can keep trying 
until they succeed. 

Once the door isopen and the characters move on, go 
to Area 7: Ogre's Den. 












WW '] 



4. CROSSING THE CREVICE 

• 

This passage leads you into a large cave.This cham 
ber is split down the middle by a wide crevice. At 
the crevice's narrowest point, it spans 10 feet. At 
one time, a rope bridge connected both sides of 
the 20-foot deep crack, but it now hangs down 
from this side, apparently cut from the other side. 


The ores in room 5 cut the rope bridge to keep the 
players from getting across. This is a defensive strategy 
that they take whenever the caves are attacked. The 
characters need to come up with their own way to get 
across. Some options are listed below. 



0 




Jump Across 

To leap over the crevice, a player rolls 3 dice and adds 
thejump bonus listed on the character sheet. (Mialee 
and Liddashould subtract thejump penalty instead.) If 
the player's total is 14 or better, the character gets 
across. If the total islessthan 14, the character falls and 
takes damage. Roll 1 die and mark off that many hit 
points on the character's sheet. 

Climb Down, Then Up 
To climb safely, a player rolls 3 dice and adds the Climb 
bonus listed on the character sheet. (M ialee subtracts 
her Climb penalty instead.) If the player's total is 12 or 
better, the character climbs down own side and up the 
next successfully. If the total islessthan 12, the charac 
ter falls and takes damage. Roll 1 die and mark off that 
many hit points on the character's sheet. 



Fix the Bridge 

If one character climbs down (as described above), 
grabs the end of the rope bridge, and carries it up the 
other side, he can tie it off. Other characters can then 
cross safely and easily. 

FALLING: Characters who fall into the crevice need 
to score 12 or better on Climb checks to get out of the 
crevice. Once the characters are all across the chasm, 
they can proceed to Area 5: Ore Lair. 

5. ORC LAIR 

This dimly-lit, smelly cave is obviously the ores' 
sleeping quarters. Five beds are on the floor. On two 
of the beds, ores are sleeping. Another ore is awake 
and ready for you. Itholdsaknifein its hand. 

What do you do? 


In this fight, the ore with the knife attacks the charac 
ters, but it also yells for its sleeping comrades to wake 
up and help in the fight. After the characters have each 
had two turns in the fight, the other ores wake up, grab 
their spears, and attack. 


HANDI ING THF FIGHT 

Proceed through the combat by taking turns, just 
likebefore. Remember that the sleeping oresdont 
attack until after every character has acted twice. 

ATTACKS: W hen a character attacks an ore, the 
player rolls 3 dice and adds the Attack bonus indi 
cated on his or her sheet. If the player gets a 13 or 
better, he or she hits the ore. 

DAMAGE: Determinehow much damage the 
character deals by rolling the dice indicated on the 
character sheet. M ark off the damage from the 
ore's hit points below. If an ore loses all its hit 
points, it is dead and can no longer act. When all 
ores are dead, the battle is over. 


Ore with knife: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Sleeping Ore #1: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Sleeping Ore #2: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

MAGI C: If a character 

casts 

a spell, 

fol 

low 

the 


spell's instructions on the character sheet. M ialee 
andjozan can cast a spell instead of attacking. 

TH E ORCS'TURN: When all the players have 
acted, it's the ores'turn. First, pick a character for 
each awake ore to attack (each ore should attack a 
different character). For each ore, roll 3 dice and 
add 1 to the result. I f the ore's total is equal to or 
better than the Armor Class of the character it 
attacks, the ore hits. If it does, roll 1 die for 
damage. FI ave the player whose character was hit 
mark off the number of hit points inflicted on the 
character. 

DESCRIPTI ON: Asyou play through the battle, 
describe the action. Tell the players about the 
startled ores stabbing with their sharp spears or 
slashing with a knife. 


Oncethefight isover, the characters have options to 
choose from again. 














Examine the Ores 

These ores have nothing other than their weapons. 

Search the Beds and the Garbage in the 
Room 

The contents of this room are disgusting. Anyone 
examining the room I earns only that ores are foul crea 
tures. But if a player states that their character looks 
under the beds, the character finds a small golden 
statue of an ore. The characters can sell the statue at a 
nearby village for 20 gold pieces. 

Examine the Door on the Opposite Wall 
The door is made of sturdy wood and is locked. A 
player can try to pick the lock by rolling 3 dice and 
adding her character's Open Lock bonus. If she gets a 
15 or better, the lock opens with aclick. OnlyLiddahas 
a realistic chance to pick the lock. 

If Lidda can't open the lock, the characters can 
attempt to break the door down. To break the door 
down, a player rolls 3 dice and adds the character's 
Push/Pull bonus listed on the character sheet. (M ialee 
should subtract her Push/Pul I penalty instead.) If the 
total is 15 or better, the character smashes open the 
door.Thecharacterscan keep trying until they succeed. 

0 nee they open the door, the character can proceed to 
Area 6: Storeroom. 


6. STOREROOM 

This room is dark. I f they enter, the characters must take 
alittorch (perhaps from the wall in Ore Lair) with them 
to see. Once they can see, read the following to them: 

This appears to be a storage room. The only exit is 
the door you came through. I nside, you see four 
wooden crates in the middle of the room. There's 
also a wooden barrel with metal bindings against 
the nearest wal I, an i ron box agai nst the far wal I, a 
sack sitting on a shelf on the right wall, and a 
wooden cart in the far corner. 

Do you wish to examineanything here, or would 
you I ike to move on? 

There's plenty to search here. The players could 
choose to have their characters take any of the follow 
ing actions. 


, • V- 


Search the Crates 

The crates contain a 50-foot coil of rope, two empty 
sacks, clothing, unused torches, and some bread, 
cheese, and dried meat. 


The characters can take the contents of the crates if 
they want. A character who exami nes the crates finds a 
crossbow and 10 crossbow bolts (small arrows designed 
for crossbows). Any character can use this weapon to 
attack monsters. I f a character uses the crossbow, she 
deals 1 die of damage when using it, instead of what 
ever damage i s I i sted on the character sheet. 

Look in the Barrel 

The barrel isfilled with water.The water is normal in 
every way, but the players dont know that until the 
characters test it. 

Open the Box 

I nside the box are 3 green flasks stuffed amid straw 
padding. Blue liquid fills one flask, while the second 
hasgreen fluid and the third has orange fluid. 



Each flask contains a magic potion, but dont tell the 
players that right away! If M ialee casts detect magic the 
spell tells her the fluid is magical. A character looking 
at the potions can examine them closely. H ave the 
player roll 3 dice and add the character's Knowledge 
bonus. (Regdar subtracts his Knowledge penalty 
instead.) If the result is 14 or better, the character rec 
ognizes the potion as magical and knows what it does. 

A character that drinks a potion without knowing 
what itisstill gains its benefits. 



• The blue potion heals a wounded character. Roll 1 
dice, and remove that many points of damage marked 
off from that character's hit point boxes earlier in 
the adventure. 

• The green potion makes a character stronger. I f 
a character drinks this potion, add 1 to the character's 
Attack bonus and add 1 to the damage listed on 
his character sheet. The potion lasts for the rest of 
the adventure. 

• The orange potion protects a character, making her 
skin strong like steel. Add 2 to the Armor Class of the 
character who drinks the potion. This potion lasts for 
the rest of the adventure. 








•j 



Look in the Sack 

The sack isfilled with gold pieces. If acharacter investi- 
gatesit, hefinds 50 gold piecesin the sack. 

Check out the Cart 


! 




If anyone tel Is you that she looks at the cart, she finds a 
greatsword strapped underneath it. The huge sword 
looks too heavy for the ores to use. If Regdar uses the 
greatsword in a fight, he adds 1 bonus to his Attack 
bonus and adds 1 to the damage listed on his character 
sheet, increasing those scores to a +4 Attack bonus and 
a damage of 2 dice +3. The greatsword is too heavy for 
the other characters to use. 

0 n ce th e characters are don e h ere, they shou I d deci de 
what to do next. If they haven't been to guard post 
(Area 3) or ogre's den (Area 7), they need to backtrack 
to empty cave (Area 2) and proceed from there. W hat 
they found in this room will help them as they take on 
those challenges. 

I f they've al ready been to the guard post and the ogre's 
den and defeated theogre, then this room isthe last part 
of the adventure. The potions and sword are their 
reward for defeating the evil of the Caves of Shadow. 


7. OGRE'S DEN 

Once past the door from guard post (Area 3), read the 
folIowing text to the players: 

JP f ' I W •* H 



* t4m 


You stand on a ledge, looking down into a large, 
dimly-lit cave. A staircase cut into the rock leads 
down to the main level of this chamber. Below 
you, you see a huge, brutish creature talking with 
an ore. The larger creature is no ore, although it is 
humanoid in shape. It stands 8 feet tall and has 
long, black hair. It clutches a massive axe in its 
meaty hands. 



The figures in the room arejezer the Ogre, leader of 
the ores, and his ore bodyguard. If the characters stand 
on the ledge and look down, Jezer and the ore do not 
see them as long as they stay off the steps. The charac 
ters are free to look into this room and back away with 
out drawing any attention to themselves. If the charac 
ters still havent found the sword and potions Jeffries 
told them about, they might be better off going to 
storeroom (Area 6) before taking on the ogre. Jezer the 
ogre is very tough. Nevertheless, let the players decide 
for themselves what the characters do. 


Sneak Away 

If the characters havent attacked or attracted the mon 
sters' attention by talking, they can escape easily and 
safely. 

Go Down to the Lower Level 
Characters can run down the stairs and attack the ogre 
and ore. Characters could also jump down. To jump 
down, a player rolls 3 dice and addsthecharacter'sjump 
bonus. (M ialee and Lidda should subtract thejump 
penalty instead.) Ifthe total is 13 or better, the character 
jumps safely and can attack. If the total is less than 13, 
the character falls badly. Roll 1 die and have the player 
mark off that many hit points on his character sheet. 

Attack From the Ledge 
M ialee can use her bow to fire from the ledge, and any 
character who has the crossbow from thestoreroom can 
do likewise. M ialee can also cast a magic missile spell 
from atop the ledge. Characters using other weapons 
(such as Regdar's greatsword, Jozan's mace, or Lidda's 
short sword) must go down to the lower level to attack. 

I f characters attack from the ledge and no one goes 
down to where the ogre and the ore are, the monsters 
come up to the ledge and fight. 

The Monsters Come Upstairs 
If the characters do not go down to the lower level but 
do something to attract the attention of the ogre and 
ore, the monsters come up to the ledge to attack them. 

Push Someone Off the Ledge 
If thefight occurs on the ledge, a character can attempt 
to push a foe off the ledge. Pushing a foe is a two-step 
process. First, a player rolls 3 dice and add the charac 
ter's Attack bonus. If he hits, he deals damage just I ike a 
normal attack. 

If the attack succeeded, the player rolls 3 dice again, 
this time adding the character's Push/Pull bonus. 
(M ialee subtracts her Push/Pul I penalty instead.) Ifthe 
total is 15 or better, the character pushes the foe off the 
ledge. Roll 1 die and mark off that many hit points 
from the monster's total. 

If still alive, the ore and ogre come back up to the 
ledge to fight some more. 










HANDI ING THF FIGHT 

Proceed through the combat by taking turns, just 
I ike before. 

ATTACKS: W hen a character attacks an foe, the 
player rolls 3 dice and adds the Attack bonus indi 
cated on her sheet. I f the player gets a 13 or better, 
she hits the ore. If a character attacks Jezer the 
ogre, she needs a total of 14 to hit it. 

DAMAGE: Determine how much damage the 
character deals by rolling the dice indicated on the 
character sheet. M ark off the damage from the ogre's 
or ore's hi t poi nts bel ow. I f the ogre or ore I oses al I i ts 
hit points, it is dead and can no longer act. W hen the 
ogre and ore are dead, the battle is over. 


Ogre 

: o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 


o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Ore: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

MAGIC: 

If a character casts a spell, 

follow 

the 


spell's instructions on the character sheet. M ialee 
and Jozan can cast a spell instead of attacking. 

TH E M ONSTERS'TURN: W hen all the players 
have acted, it's the ore's and ogre's turn. First, pick a 
character for the ore to attack. The ore pi cks a char- 
acter on the lower level unless all the characters 
are on the ledge. Roll 3 dice and add 1. If the ore's 
result is equal to or better than the Armor Class of 
the character it attacks, the ore hits. I f it does, rol 11 
die for damage. Have the player whose character 
was hit mark off the number of hit points inflicted 
on the character. If a character loses all of his or 
her hit points, the character is dead and can no 
longer act. 

N ext, pick a character for the ogre to attack. The 
ogre chooses a different character than the one 
chosen by the ore. The ogre also prefers characters 
on the lower level, if any are available. Roll 3 dice 
and add 5. If the ogre's result is equal to or better 
than the Armor Class of the character it attacks, 
the ogre hits. Roll 2 dice for the ogre's damage. 

DESCRI PTION: Asyou play through the battle, 
describe the action asyou have in previous fights. 
This is the titanic battle with the biggest monster 
in the adventure, so make it dramatic. Describe the 
sneering, devious ore and the huge, vile-smelling 
ogre as they attempt to defeat the valiant heroes. 


After the fight, the characters can choose from any of 
theactionsdescribed below. 

Check the Ore 

Aside from its spear, the ore has a small pouch on its 
belt that holds 8 gold pieces. 

Examine the Ogre 

Jezer the ogre has a massive axe, some befouled armor 
made of animal hides, and a large gem hung around his 
neck on a chain. This necklace, if taken back to a 
nearby village, can be sold for 50 gold pieces. 

Search the Rest of the Room 
A character looking around the cave finds a large bed 
wherejezer sleeps. Under the bed isasmall bagwith 20 
gold coinsin it. 

Congratulate the players on defeating the evil of the 
Caves of Shadow! 


NOW WHAT? 

The Dungeons & Dragons(r) Player's Handbook, 
Dungeon M aster's Guide and M onster M anual let you 
create your own characters and adventures. 

Look for them at a book or hobby store near you, or 
check out www.wizards.com/dnd. 









Find Yourself. 
Somewhere Else. 


The Caves of Shadow game is only the beginning. I n the 
Dungeons & D r ago n s (r)A dventu re Game, your heroes will carry 
more spells and magical weapons into battle against villainous 
creatures. The only limitations of the game is your imagination. 



LookfortheDuNGEONs& DRAGONs(r)4dventureGameatabook 
or hobby store near you, or go to wizards.com/dnd. 


U.S., CANADA, 

ASIA, PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

P.O. Box 707 
Renton WA 98057-0707 
(Questions?) 1-800-324-6496 



B0002181 


EUROPEAN HEADQUARTERS 
Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
P.B. 2031 
2600 Berchem 
Belgium 

+32-70-23-32-77 


Dungeons & Dragons and the Wizards of the Coast logo are registered trademarks owned by Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 

All Wizards characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
Distributed to the hobby, toy, and conic trade in the United States and Canada by regional distributors. 

Distributed in the United States to the book trade by St. Martin's Press. 

Distributed in Canada to the book trade by Fenn Ltd. Distributed worldwide by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and regional distributors. 
This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the 
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 

This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely 
coincidental. 

(§2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved. Mbde in the U.S.A. Visit our website at 
www.wizards.ccm 



