Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01109 AD& D Forgotten Realms City Of Splendors"
See other formats


























IK^ e , i- ¦ -^a 

HI. 1 

v^I;, -j 


¦jjfl?- -. l| 

ft - N I I 

" "fc ,! 1 1 

1 1 

pi SyC'' V>rv 

T\ 

L.\ 

u'l 

- ¦ .ij 

*i r i 

lI ? # 1 


n 


|E^£v 

ir^Kli 


J-,- 3 M, " 

ML 

>JU 

£ 


War 

W 1 



a 

m - 

i 

. 1 


t •|"W - 

p| 


I 1 


r- • - 1 

l1 

rj| 

n 

























CampaigK) 

To the OTv 

Book I of the Cffy of Splestdotis 


by Steven Schend with Ed Greenwood 


Introductions. 2-7 

Chapter One: Geography & Environs.8-24 

Chapter Two: History of the City.25-35 

Chapter Three: The City Wards.36-55 

Sight-Seeing in Waterdeep.36 

The City Ward Keys. 40 

Chapter Four: Places of Interest & Danger.56-66 

City of the Dead. 56 

Waterdeep Harbor. 58 

City Sewers. 59 

Undermountain and the Depths Below.63 

Rat Hills. 65 

Chapter Five: The Lords of Waterdeep.67-74 

The Lords' History. 67 

The Lords' Roster. 68 

The Lords' Magic. 72 

The Lords' Agents. 73 


Chapter Six: Law & Order. 75-83 

The City Watch. 75 

The City Guard. 76 

The Magisters & The Courts. 76 

Laws of Waterdeep. 77 

Select Law Enforcement NPCs. 82 

Chapter Seven: Magic of Waterdeep.84-101 

Spells of Waterdeep. 84 

Magical Items of Waterdeep. 95 

Miscellaneous Magical Items.95 

Artifacts & Unique Items. 97 

Appendix One: Trade & Travel.102-103 

Appendix Two: Skullport. 104-111 

Appendix Three: The Blue Alley.112-119 

Appendix Four: 

Waterdeep Map Cross-Reference Keys.120-123 

Appendix Five: 

City of Splendors Index (all four books).124-128 


CnebTCs 


Original Design: Ed Greenwood 
Edititorial Help: Karen S. Boomgarden 
Cartography: Eric Hotz & Dennis Kauth 
Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra 


Development & Editing: Steven E. Schend 
Cover Art: Larry Elmore 
Interior Art: Valerie Valusek 
Production: Paul Hanchette 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, DUNGEON MASTER, D&D, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM, 
and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trade- 
marks owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the United States of America. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


ISBN 1-56076-368-1 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 



































I kTCko & not) o kj 5 


ntroductions are always the first and best way to get to know people and 
places. And, of course, one's introduction to Waterdeep forever colors 
how one sees the City of Splendors forevermore. For me, Waterdeep and 
her vistas will always be dominated by Mount Waterdeep and a fond 
memory of an alighting griffon silhouetted against the reddened skies of 
the setting sun." 



-Open Lord Piergeiron Paladinson of Waterdeep 


As the man says, everyone's introduction to the City of Splendors colors how they see the 
magnificent (or sordid, depending on your view) metropolis of the North. As witness to this, 
here are words and views and personal reflections of Waterdeep from many of those folk on 
our world who have had extensive contact with it. Keep them in mind when you see the 
streets of the Crown of the North for the first (or hundredth) time in this boxed set. . . . 


Ed Greenwood is a man who hardly needs any introduction to any fans of the Realms, but he 
gets one anyway. Ed is the original creator of the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Campaign set 
ting and his first Waterdeep supplement (FR1 Waterdeep and the North) is the source of 
much of this boxed set's basic material. Ed's latest additions to Realmslore include the Volo's 
Guides (to Waterdeep, the North, and an impending look at the Sword Coast) and the novels 
Spellfire, Crown of Fire and the upcoming Elminster: Making of a Mage. 

Go'nog Home Agalw 

Not all trails lead to Waterdeep - 
but all who travel often seem to 
find their way there. 

Samatcho Ahonu, My Travels In the Curious West 
The Year of the Turret 


I first saw Waterdeep at night. A caravan had set out-in a story I was writing about 
a fat, brawling merchant named Mirt-and I wanted to see where it would go. 

This was a caravan of golden furs, sparkling blue ice wine, and caged unicorns, all 
taken from the heart of the North, assembled in Neverwinter, and sent down a long 
and perilous coastal road, past ghost-haunted ruins and marshes, to somewhere larger, 
richer, and more sophisticated. 

A great trading city, where half the world rubbed shoulders. A place of wealth and toler 
ance, whose thieves weren't a power in the city, and whose nobles were as proud and as 
devil-may-care-if not as powerful-as the royals of many a fantasy world. A place whose 
wealth and power rivaled imperial Rome, whose sophistication outstripped Paris, whose 
color and eccentricities were a match for old London. A place where ships docked that 
hailed from half a world away, bringing exotic spices, ivory, and caged beasts from lands 
that were little more than legends to most of the swarming folk of the city. A place with a 
great natural harbor, sheltered by one arm of a mountain, where the water was deep right 
up to the shore. A place called-well, Waterdeep. 











The caravan rolled in as the blue dusk crept swiftly along 
on the heels of fading sunset, and went with it, peering-and 
marveling. This is the type of place I wanted to write about! 

Nay, to live in. A place with a whiff of Juvenal's Satires 
and an echo of Sutcliff's The Armourer's House, a place 
built of ghostwalks in York, strolls in Shrewsbury and the 
back streets of Oxford, memories of half a hundred fantasy 
novels, and of the most splendid things I could imagine. 

A place I could call home. 

A place that would grow in color and detail as the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) setting took shape around it, 
driven by the enthusiastic adventurings of a fledgling group 
of D&D(r) garners - particularly one Victor Selby, in those 
days-as they poked around in alleys, dusty shops, dim tav 
erns, dark sewers, and even slippery rooftops in pursuit of 
adventure; a running gag of these rooftop jaunts involved 
party members tumbling helplessly down the slopes of roofs 
to crash through skylights and land in the middle of food 
laden tables at feasts, the beds at poorly-timed moments in 
bedchambers, map-strewn tables around which conspirators 
were whispering, Waterdhavian nobles dueling -or 
undressing-and so on. It got so, somehow, they didn't 
want to go up on rooftops, any more. . . . 

Long before "Waterdeep Nights" was a phrase known to 
computer gamers, it was what I called my "what might hap 
pen tonight" encounter sheet, as the Company of Crazed 
Venturers set out on another aimless see-what-trouble-we- 
can-find stroll, tavern-crawl, or stealthy mission-or wild 
chase!-through the night-cloaked streets of Waterdeep. 

It was here that the Ghost Knight was born. It was here 
that a wish whose wording remains controversial to this day 
snatched Company survivors from the depths of "the Fire 
place Level" of the Dungeon of the Crypt (which lies partly 
under one of the crypts in the City of the Dead, and has 
been the meeting-place of many illicit cults and shady orga 
nizations, over the years) into the bar at the Inn of the Drip 
ping Dagger, shattering it . . . and bringing along with them 
certain explosive beasts, with immediate and dramatic 
results. It was here that the intrepid descended the shaft in 
the taprooms of the Yawning Portal for the first time, to find 
the er, glories of Undermountain awaiting them. 

It was on those nights that the Company crashed the 
debauched parties of the nobles, in many a villa in North 
Ward or Sea Ward-a most memorable night happened at 
the house of the Roaringhorns, when two sorceresses 
decided to fight a spell-duel just as the entire Flying Hunt, 
from far-off Nimbral, galloped down out of the sky to ask 
where they could find a certain mage named "Blackstaff" to 


help them deal with a sudden infestation of dragons! 

It was here that someone first began killing the city's 
Lords, and Piergeiron's daughter wore his armor and pre 
tended to be him while Durnan, Laeral, Mirt, and his ward- 
become-wife, Asper, turned the city upside down in search 
of the missing Paladinson (yes, he was found, alive and 
well, but that's a tale for another time). It was here that a 
certain Guildmaster spent a memorable night in the sewers 
with the persuasive Kitten, and emerged hopelessly in love 
and willing to let the Lords do as they pleased with his 
guild. It was here that various noble families started feuds 
and more friendly rivalries that still continue, and that I 
first found the Moon Sphere, the Blue Alley, and the Old 
Xoblob Shop; Waterdhavians, by the way, use "Xoblob" in 
the manner those of our world use the names "Joe Blow" or 
"John Doe." It was here that I found myself at home .. . 
and it is here that my heart lives. 

I could tell you tales to fill this box many times over, and 
still have more to tell-because Waterdeep is a living, 
bustling, ever-growing place, and its stories are the tales of 
people-people as vividly real as we can make them. 

And that's not a royal "we." Once it was, very briefly, 
before my players galloped madly off in all directions at 
once, exploring the place where they were supposed to just 
rest between delves into Undermountain. They got caught 
up in its intrigues, and often abandoned dungeons entirely 
for the excitement of the surface world, and then forcing 
me to eventually detail the entire Realms.. . . 

Then, years later, Karen Boomgarden and Jeff Grubb 
shoehorned what should have been this boxed set into a 
64-page sourcebook, with such dark mutterings as "Thou 
shalt never use so much mouse type again!" Certain other 
folk at TSR were awed by the size of the map Jeff had 
painstakingly taped together from the mountain of photo 
copies I'd sent (hey, a city is a city-and no city ever fits 
neatly into any size box). Waterdeep saw print, and the 
floodgates were opened. 

We've visited the city and its environs more than any 
place in the Realms-and we still have only scratched the 
surface, through the work of Volo (well, me), Allen Varney 
(in Knight of the Living Dead), Jeff Grubb (in City System), 
Elaine Cunningham (in Elfshadow and Elfsong), and Steven 
Schend (in the painstaking pulling-together of Under 
mountain, Skullport and the Promenade of Eilistraee, and 
now this box you're holding). 

You've seen almost nothing of the sewers yet, or the City 
of the Dead, or the Blue Alley, or the doings and posturings 
of the nobles, or the fashions of the city, or the Dungeon of 




the Crypt, or the various tunnels and caverns inside Mount 
Waterdeep, or the bitter guild disputes that have almost 
wrecked the city on too many occasions, or where the mer 
men dwell, or .. . But then, in the Realms as in real life, 
one should always have something else to look forward to! 

And if you should come to Waterdeep, and go for a stroll 
in one of those deep blue evenings when sky and sea seem to 
meet, and chance to see someone winking at you from the 
shadows behind the lovely lasses in the Blushing Mermaid, or 
strolling along on Laeral's arm at a gathering of the Watchful 
Order, or fencing upon the tabletops in the Inn of the Drip 
ping Dagger with Asper . . . well, it's either one of several 
thousand fellow gamers taking their characters out for a night 
on the town-or it's me. Whatever eyes I look out of, I see 
the city of Waterdeep around me-and I love this place. 

So-well met, traveler! Welcome to my home! 

Elaine Cunningham is the author of the novels Elfshadow and 
Elfsong, two novels which bring Waterdeep to life and acquaint 
us with such notables us Danilo Thann, the noble Lord Of 
Waterdeep, and his half-elven partner, Arilyn Moonblade. 
Additional stories about them and their nemesis, Elaith "the Ser 
pent" Craulnobur, appear in the short story anthologies Realms 
of Valor and Realms of Infamy. 

Wisibouos ON 
WaTeR^eep 

aterdeep is, quite simply, my favorite city in any of the 
(tm) (tm) known realms. It's got something for everyone: 
scholar, wizard, merchant, nobleman, artisan, adventurer, 
laborer, opportunist, and bon vivant (a.k.a. "party animal"). 
In writing about Waterdeep, I've found inspiration in a num 
ber of eras and places: from my years of living near Elarvard 
Square in Cambridge, in books and musicals about Berlin in 
the 1930's, and Paris-anything, anytime. If this suggests an 
impossibly wide range, then perhaps you've learned some 
thing important about this vast and wonderful city. 

Echoes of Waterdeep also greet me in unexpected places. 
Walking down the medieval streets of Disneyland's fairy 
tale section, I catch a glimpse of the whimsical shops that 
line the Street of the Sword. When my "companion" is sin 
gled out for attention by a gypsy dancer or a "bawdy 
wench" at a Renaissance Faire, for a moment we're in one 
of Waterdeep's festhalls or taverns. Believe it or not, riding 
the bike path along Venice Beach brings Waterdeep to 
mind (Hey, there's something for everyone there, too .. .). 


My son Andrew, age seven, tends to ask me earnest ques 
tions about the relative strengths and weaknesses of various 
sorts of dragons and monsters, just like any other fledgling 
adventurer. The wonderful literature and programs of the 
Society for Creative Anachronism give me a better feeling 
for day-to-day life in a fantasy medieval city. And, of 
course, I read stuff. 

Most of all, Waterdeep is indelibly engraved in my imagina 
tion. A character in one of my favorite childhood books 
described daydreams as "castles in the air." If so, Waterdeep is 
as elaborate and wondrous a cloud castle as anyone could wish. 

I've always been fond of historical novels, and I 
approach any FORGOTTEN REALMS project from that 
point of view. Many times I've used the fine gaming prod 
ucts to jump-start my imagination, but I've tried to repay 
this favor by keeping the facts and the players straight. 
Even with this concern for "historical accuracy" and conti 
nuity, there's so much room for variety and imagination 
that any storyteller - gamer or writer - can while away 
many happy seasons. I love writing about Waterdeep and 
her colorful citizens, and I'll continue to do so as long as 
people want to read about the City of Splendors. 

Jeff Grubb is equally responsible for bringing the Realms to life 
for all the funs of AD&D(r) games, having co-developed and co 
designed the original and the revised boxed sets of the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) setting. In additions, Jeff and his 
wife, Kate Novak, created some of the Realms' more enduring 
characters in Azure Bonds, The Wyvern's Spur, and Song of 
the Saurials: Alias, Dragonbait, Olive Ruskettle, and Finder 
Wyvernspur. 

BRlghT Lights, Big City 

T here is something almost supernatural about the 
attraction of urban life, the hustle and bustle, the 
huge population, the gathering of disparate peoples, the 
excitement of the unknown. Paris, London, New York, 
Chicago - all are more than just piles of stone graced with 
municipal services-they each have their own personality, 
their own individuality, their own character. There are 
those who love them and those who wonder why anyone 
would put up with such craziness on a daily basis. 

And so it is with Waterdeep, the greatest city of the 
Realms. There are others that might claim larger popula 
tions (claim, mind you), or cover more ground, or host 
more powerful rulers (though those are few and far 





between, indeed), but for sheer diversity, perversity, and 
fantastic ability, none hold a candle to the wonders that are 
native to Waterdeep alone. 

In many ways, Waterdeep is the destination for all 
natives of the Realms, the great fantasy metropolis. It is 
one thing to be the best thief in Sembia, or the local hero 
in some backwater dale, or the most powerful wizard in 
some Heartland trading city. It is quite another to be 
among the movers and shakers of the City of Splendors, 
where treasures and fortunes are won and lost daily in a sin 
gle throw of the dice, where plans are hatched and foiled 
with dramatic regularity, and where all manner of beings 
and monsters can be found on the streets (or in the subter 
ranean sewers and ruins beneath those streets). 

From brawling inns of Dock Ward to the revels of the 
high and mighty in North Ward, from the City of the Dead 
to the Palace of the Paladinson, there is something here for 
adventurers of every stripe and playing style. The very size 
of the place (and yes, Ed's description of his Waterdeep 
map photocopies is correct-it swallowed a 20-foot by 30- 
foot area outside our gaming library) defies all easy theories 
and widesweeping generalities. Just about everything can 
be found in Waterdeep. 

Everything, including adventurers. Waterdeep is a 
breathing, palpable entity because so many adventurers 
make their homes there. There is no King in the city, but 
there are the mysterious Lords. There is no immediate 
external threat to Waterdeep, but instead, a web of rivalries 
and enemies that continually plot against the peace. No 
one being rules all of Waterdeep, and this last provides 
adventurers with the chance to achieve something on their 
own, whether it be to enter into city politics or just make 
sure their favorite tavern is secure from criminals. 

In short, Waterdeep, the City of Splendors, is a place 
where any individual with a strong heart and a sound mind 
can make it big. And if you can make it there, you can 
make it anywhere. 

Karen Boomgarden has been one of the most influential people 
in the Realms since its beginnings at TSR. Tire editor on the 
original FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Campaign Setting and the 
FR1 Waterdeep and the North supplement, Karen helped Ed 
and Jeff build the foundations of TSR's greatest fantasy world 
(and made sure they spelled it right!). Karen continues us an 
influence in the Realms as the product group leader overseeing 
present and future game products. (All this, and she provided 
aid above and beyond the call on this book-Thanks, Karen!) 


FWOOMPl 

T hat sound is what comes to my mind when someone 
says "Waterdeep." Sure, it's the grandest city in all 
Faerun. Sure, it's the City of Splendors. Sure, there's enough 
to do there for a lifetime of adventure. So why "fwoomp?" 

Because that's the sound the pieces for the city map 
made when they landed on the floor outside my office. Yes, 
the legendary map of Waterdeep, on all those standard-size 
sheets of paper, each one numbered to make assembly less 
confusing for (yeah, sure Ed, whatever you say). What I 
remember most clearly is the frustration and discomfort 
that map caused, because it took up the whole floor 
between my office doorway and the ladies' room. 

But honestly. I've never played in Waterdeep. I've read 
the game products, and I dove into the Volo's Guide to 
Waterdeep with a level of anticipation that I don't have too 
often. And, looking at the past products, although lots of 
people say "Oh no, not again!" when we propose another 
item set in Waterdeep, there aren't all that many of them 
out there. And certainly none of the previous ones gave 
anyone the amount of detail provided in this set. (Steven, 
you've outdone yourself. Congrats.) The maps are wonder 
fully detailed, from the one we let Eric Hotz have free reign 
on ("Take the Thirsty Throat tavern, and have a party" we 
said; beautiful job, Eric!) to Dennis Kauth's and Rob 
Lazaretti's model of the Adventurers' Quarter (Waterdeep's 
never looked so real, guys!). This boxed set makes me want 
to play there, to have a native Waterdhavian PC, and 
make Waterdeep my home away from home. 

Oh, there's something I have to tell you. See those little 
critters on the Secrets of the City cover, the ones that look 
like reptilian pugs with exposed brains for heads? The ones 
that are supposed to be intellect devourers, but aren't quite 
what the creator had in mind? I know for a fact that 
they've got a dweomer on them that causes wizards (they're 
especially susceptible) to stop and scritch those little brain- 
heads, murmuring things like "Ooooo! Da liddle critter's 
so-o-o-o-o-o CUTE! Ooooo, woodjie-woodjie! Isn't he 
cute," and so on, all the while losing Intelligence points to 
the so-ugly-they're-cute buggers, eventually to be left 
drooling in the corner of the room or along the corridor 
wall, wondering where their pets went. 

How do I know this, you may ask. 

You may ask. I just don't have to tell you. Not yet. . . 
Now, if you'll excuse me, I have some exploring to do. I 
think I'll book a room in Sea Ward, someplace not too 




rowdy and not too stuffy, and see where my imagination 
takes me. Come on along-there's room for all of us! 

Julia Martin is one of the guiding hands behind the current 
Realms, as the editor of the new FORGOTTEN REALMS 
Campaign Set. Her ties with the City of Splendors run deep, as 
she was the editorial direction behind the Volo's Guide to 
Waterdeep and Volo's Guide to the North. 

What I ALcuays 
WawTe6 a OTy... 

W aterdeep has fascinated me since the first accessory for 
the original FORGOTTEN REALMS Campaign Set 
came out years ago. I was but a wee gamer then (all right, 
indulge me), and still in college. The cover to the Waterdeep 
and the North accessory immediately tickled my fancy. What 
kind of a fantastic place has occurrences in it that look like 
drow pool party/cookouts featuring accountants discussing 
problems with their beholder bosses? I quickly became 
intrigued with what looked to me like the biggest fantasy city 
I'd ever run across. Elowever, I admit, I was a little ticked. I 
felt like not enough meat was provided over the bones. I 
wanted more detail, more shop/tavern/inn description, more 
NPCs, more, MORE, MORE! When the City System boxed 
accessory came out, I thought, "Ah, at last." Nope. Just a big 
ger version of that map. Argh! 

As time went on, I became more familiar with certain 
parts of Waterdeep as the city was featured in TSR novels, 
comics, and other game products. I developed a working 
knowledge of Waterdeep, but still felt a niggling sense of 
irritation at the many sources I had to consult if I wanted 
to confirm something I thought I recalled. And I had to 
remember what had changed with the years, especially after 
the Avatar game modules and novels. The city had such 
potential, but was such a bear to work with. 

In 1991,1 joined the staff of TSR, and my fondest wish was 
to work on FORGOTTEN REALMS campaign setting prod 
ucts. The first one I got my editorial teeth into was the Volo's 
Guide to Waterdeep accessory. At last we could tie together 
some of those diverse sources, and Ed Greenwood could pro 
vide what I felt was missing all along-the details. Or at least 
some of them. You see, Waterdeep is so doggone big that even 
there we could only pick and choose, describing the character 
of the Wards and providing information about choice locales. 
This new, definitive City of Splendors boxed accessory 


provides a more in-depth foundation that complements the 
Volo's Guide to Waterdeep accessory so well. Steven, with 
help from Ed and other opinionated design and editorial 
personalities, has provided here a solid and bounteous fresh 
start for Waterdeep that pushes past the boundaries of old 
knowledge and brings diverse pieces of information 
together for easy reference. It also addresses specifically for 
the first time the needs of the players whose characters 
roam Waterdeep with the new Adventurer's Guide to the 
City. I look forward to wandering the streets of the City of 
Splendors once again in my mind, and turning down wind 
ing lanes and dark alleys never before encountered. 

May Selune guide your characters' steps in the night, 
and bring them to the new dawn. 

EbTtoiz's NoTe 

As you can see, Waterdeep leaves a different impression, a 
different feeling, a different memory for each and every life it 
touches. That was the purpose of this lengthy introduction: 
to show that this city will never be the same city for every 
one, not all people will share the adventures you will have 
there, but none shall doubt that Waterdeep truly fulfills its 
name as the City of Splendors. Is it fully be detailed, all of its 
secrets plundered, in the boxed set you hold in your hands? 
Don't worry-there's stories and people enough in this box to 
keep you busy many a tenday, even if it isn't complete. 
Remember, Waterdeep is a city for everyone, and only you 
and yours can determine when all its tales are told. . . . 

What's that? Oh, you want to hear my story about 
Waterdeep? Well, all right. . . . 

Steven Schend is the editor and co-designer of the boxed set you 
hold in your hands. In addition to this collection, Steven worked 
with Ed Greenwood on the original Ruins of Undermountain 
boxed set. Having spent so much time here in the past few 
years, Steven can now find things more easily in Waterdeep 
than in his own office. 

Ga Tetuay To a Whole 
Netu Would 

I t's funny how this project brings me full circle with 
TSR and role-playing games. If it weren't for fair 
Waterdeep, the City of Splendors, I might not be at this 
job today. 




A few years back, I had gone off to college and set aside 
my role-playing games, believing I wouldn't have time, or 
I wouldn't find a group to play with, or a million other 
reasons. Suffice it to say that I hadn't played in a few 
years. Well, slowly but surely, I kept wandering into a 
game store in Madison, Wisconsin and I kept looking at 
the original FORGOTTEN REALMS Campaign Set . . . 
and looking . . . and looking again . . . but I never quite 
made it to the counter with my money. I'd bought a few 
boxes in the past that promised me a complete world for 
AD&D(r) adventures, and I'd been disappointed after 
opening them. So I waited, and my skepticism kept me 
from enjoying the Realms for a few weeks, until I saw FR1 
Water deep and the North. It cost a bit less than the box, 
and the cover intrigued me, so I thought, "I'll try this sup 
plement, and if I like what I see. I'll pick up the main set 
and start up a game." Well, I got home, opened the book, 
began reading, and . . . well, I was lost to the world for too 
many hours (as I found out on an exam the next day). 
Needless to say, Waterdeep swept me off my feet, I bought 
the boxed set, and was blown away by the Realms put 
together by these two guys named Ed Greenwood and Jeff 
Grubb. I was back into gaming for good! A few short years 
later, I find myself an editor at TSR, rubbing shoulders 
with the very folks who brought me back into the fold. 
Hmph . . . funny how serendipity works out like that. . . . 

As I'm writing this. I'm also thinking through the work 
that went into this project. By the time this sees print. I'll 
have forgotten all the sleepless nights of work that caused 
me to walk around like a zombie for days; I won't remem 
ber how many times I called Canada to check, recheck, 
and corroborate facts with Ed; I might not even remember 
how much hair I pulled out in frustration while I tried to 
track down a fact I vaguely remembered about Kitten or 
the Copper Cup but couldn't find within the ten different 
texts that were consulted and compiled within this boxed 
set. (I hope the index in this box saves everyone else the 
hair loss!) What I will remember is a sense of pride and 
wonder in this marvelous place; despite severe burnout 
toward the end of this project. I'd still find myself stop 
ping to daydream on some odd toss-off idea of Ed's and 
mine, and I'd realize Waterdeep had spun its magic about 
me all over again. 

So, here we are at the gates of the City of Splendors 
once again, and you and yours are wondering what's within, 
right? What you'll find in this box is more on Waterdeep 
than ever printed before. Granted, we'll never get the 


entire city into a box, but don't worry-there's more than 
enough to keep you busy. This is the most comprehensive 
collection of data on the City of Splendors ever printed. 
You'll meet new people by the dozens, find new places for 
adventure and excitement, and hear of new dangers in the 
shadows. There are dozens of adventure hooks, plot hints, 
and ideas for further adventures within all four books, but 
like any real city, you've got to get to know the place before 
you can see its real intrigues and intricacies (in other 
words. I've given you the means to start a campaign and 
dropped a few hints about the whos/whats/whys of Water- 
deep, but it's up to the players and the DMs to make the 
city sing). 

So pack up your adventurer's kit, set your eyes west 
ward, and soon you'll see the Crown of the North at the 
end of your trail. Head through the South Gate and hang 
a left -first round at the Copper Cup's on me! Hail and 
well met! 

E&Ytoris Tbawks 

On a project this size, it's almost impossible to go through 
it all alone, so here's where I thank those who got dragged 
along for the ride. 

To Ed Greenwood: Thanks for enduring the twice- 
weekly (or more frequent) phone calls and fact checks, and 
thanks for your wonderful addenda to this wondrous city. 
Cups high, my friend! 

To Elaine Cunningham: Thanks for your aid and friendly 
commentaries, and thanks most of all for that wonderful 
Lord himself, Danilo Thann. 

To Karen Boomgarden, Julia Martin, Jim Ward, and Janis 
Wells: Thank you all for your assistance in proofing and 
making sure I didn't release too many dangers (grammatical 
or otherwise) upon the Realms. 

To Wolfgang Baur, Dale Donovan, Jeff Grubb, and Colin 
McComb: Thanks for the help with the monsters, guys; I 
couldn't face them alone. 

To Dennis Kauth, Rob Lazzaretti, Diesel, and Dave 
Sutherland: Thanks for not, screaming when you saw the 
maps of Waterdeep again. Now, seriously, your enthusiasm 
and excitement over new ways to do this city made this 
great; Dennis, I was just kidding when I suggested a poster 
sized model for Waterdeep, but I'm very glad it happened. 

To Ed, Jeff, Karen, Julia, Elaine, Paul Jaquays, Steve Per 
rin, Bob Salvatore, and Allen Varney: Your works paved 
the way to this product; I hope what's at the road's end 
makes the trip worth it. . . . 


CbapTeR 

Geography 

Ek"V)ROK35 



& 



'he Sword Coast is a sprawling mosaic of people and places all eking out lit 
tle niches of so-called civilization by sword-point and gold. It is a wild 
region, though not so brutal and harsh as its 'Savage Frontier' environs, 
capable of producing the unlikeliest of diamonds in the most unexpected of 
spots. Without any arguments, the prize gem of the Sword Coast is her 


City of Splendors, fair Waterdeep." 


- Ulmas Hriistoros, human explorer circa 1356 DR 


Geography of the City of 
Spletodorzs 

7 1| ' he City of Splendors lies on the western coast of Faerun, far to the north of Amn. 

That region is known as "the Sword Coast," because for many years it was ruled by 
the might of swordarms rather than by any laws or treaties (and some folk in the South 
still hold it to be so). Waterdeep's boundaries are strictly controlled by the mysterious 
rulers of the City, the Lords of Waterdeep, and the geography on which the city rests. 

Waterdeep's boundaries stop not due to lack of trade or need for space (in all hon 
esty, the excess of both matters strains the city's bounds to this day) but due to the 
coastlines and the edges of the high, sloping plateau surrounding Mount Waterdeep. 
The city's best physical defense, beyond its high placement on said plateau, is the Troll- 
wall - an erected barrier 10' to 20' thick in places, so named for its earliest purposes of 
protecting Waterdeep from the attacks of northern trolls. The wall surrounds the city 
on the east from its southern tip at the harbor to the northern end of the City of the 
Dead; it also surrounds the western seacoast and continues around the northern city 
perimeter to the sheer cliff at the northeast comer of the city, where the precipitous 
100' drop protects Waterdeep as well as any wall. 

The Trollwall is pierced by four gates: the South Gate; the River Gate; Northgate; 
and Westgate. Within the walls, the city of Waterdeep sprawls south and west to the 
seashore and the harbor. Despite the need for further commercial and residential space, 
an edict of the Lords forbids any habitation or encroachment into the City of the Dead, 
the public streets, and the slopes of Mount Waterdeep around Castle Waterdeep. Of 
late, some maverick members of the Surveyors', Map- & Chart-makers' Guild have new 
building designs suitable for construction on the slopes of the mountain and they hope 
to gamer the public's support to challenge the long-standing Lords' ruling and allow 
new buildings on the eastern slopes of Mount Waterdeep. 

Any aerial visitor to the City of Splendors arriving from the south can clearly see the 
general topography of Waterdeep; the city resembles a flat board raised at its north end, 
and slightly tilted downward on the west, so that it slopes down toward the mountain, 













leveling off along the Way of the Dragon (a major thor 
oughfare). Mount Water deep is, of course, the highest 
point in Waterdeep; its seaswept flanks rise to shield much 
of the city from the worst coastal storm winds, and it peaks 
some 700 feet above the waves. An aerie for aerial traffic, 
garrisoned by the city guard, stands below the peak on the 
landward side. From it, the city's defensive naval combat 
"throwers" are commanded, and patrol squadrons of grif- 
fonriders fly, keeping the skies secure from hostile flying 
creatures and folk. 

IhjTerihJdL Geogrzdphy 
of the Cfty 

The Lords of the city and the watch (the city police) divide 
Waterdeep into seven districts, or "wards." These are, 
respectively, Castle Ward, Sea Ward, North Ward, Trades 
Ward, the City of the Dead, Southern Ward, and Dock 
Ward. Divisions between these districts are not obvious to 
a visitor to the city, though the natives know the wards and 
their boundaries by heart. Industry and other activities are 
not restricted to any one specific ward (the exception being 
the City of the Dead, the only legitimate burial ground). 
The complex ward boundaries are shown on the maps 
included in this boxed set. 

• Castle Ward contains Mount Waterdeep, the Castle 
itself, Piergeiron's Palace, and many of the barracks and 
other public buildings around them. Generally only the 
wealthy and powerful live here, and then only if they are 
involved in the daily intrigue and "night life," the social 
cut-and-thrust of city life. Now, a number of temple com 
plexes and education centers occupy this ward, though 
their effects on the ward as the center of the city's politi 
cal life are minimal. 

• Sea Ward lies to the north and west of Castle Ward, all 
along the seacoast. It contains most of the large temple 
complexes found in the City of Splendors, and many 
large private villas of the noble families and the very rich 
non-nobles. If one is not noble, and not a "swinger" or 
diplomat, but becomes very wealthy, the Sea Ward is the 
place to live. 

• North Ward takes in the northeastern portion of the 
sprawling city, traversing as far south as the City of the 
Dead. It contains many noble villas and grand houses, 
but the presence of many inns and rooming-houses make 
it slightly less haughty in overall character than Sea 
Ward, the traditional home of the older, more established 
rich. North Ward inhabitants are generally thought of as 
very respectable and prosperous. 


Sea Ward 


North Ward 


k Andamaar's 
L Street 


Castle Ward 


City of! 
the I 


Trades \ 
Ward \ 

Sahtyra's Lane 


^ The High Road 
Telshambra's Street 


Dock Ward 


, Southern 
i t Ward 


9 








• The City of the Dead is a walled cemetery, strictly 
patroled at all times by the watch. No one may live 
within the burial ground and no one, whether they are 
vagrants or young noble dilettantes, can sleep overnight 
therein. The Lords and their servants maintain the 
graveyard in a beautiful, park-like open condition, its 
marble statues and tombs and gravel paths all well 
tended and clean. The City of the Dead is often used as a 
launching and meeting place by natives of Waterdeep at 
all hours (despite the watch's restrictions). 

• Trades Ward lies generally to the south of Castle Ward 
and the City of the Dead, and is an arbitrary slice of the 
bustling commercial area of the city, where most moder 
ately wealthy merchants live, and much of the city's 
light-goods and respectable trade takes place. 

• Southern Ward, as its name implies, is the southern end 
of Waterdeep, and its people and business are domi 
nated by the caravan trade, with its necessary stables 
and warehouses. Many poor but honest Waterdhavians 
live here, as well as a few rising merchants and retired 
adventurers. This is the common man's side of the City 
of Splendors. 

• Dock Ward takes in the entire dock and harbor area from 
Mount Waterdeep to the southern end of the city, and is 
the most crowded, dirty, and "rough" district of the city. 
The vital commerce (and shady dealings) of Waterdeep 
keep its streets busy at all hours. 

W&Ten&eep as a Poizt 

The City of Splendors has functioned as a port for nearly 
a thousand years, long before the city itself was even offi 
cially established. Waterdeep provides an excellent nat 
ural deep-water harbor (hence its name) and shipbuilding 
facilities; over 400 vessels can dock at once at her moor 
ings. Most merchant ships of the Realms can average 50 
miles or so per day, in moderately favorable conditions. 
Sailing along the Sword Coast region, however, varies 
from dangerous to impossible (as one goes northward and 
icebergs become more common) during the harsh storms 
of winter. Storms are almost continuous in the month of 
Hammer, and frequent in the two months that follow, 
becoming increasingly fierce but shorter, and with longer 
intervals between. Thereafter, in the fourth month, they 
are replaced by cold, heavy rains that rarely involve light 
ning or high winds, and the routes are fairly safe (if 
uncomfortable) for sailing. (For more information on 
trade routes by sea and land, see Appendix One, "Trade & 
Travel".) 


Waterdeep maintains a small navy of 16 fast "rakers": 
slim top-armored vessels that can carry up to seventy 
troops each. These rakers are armed with fire-pot cata 
pults and large deck-mounted crossbows which the 
guard uses with stunning accuracy against pirates and 
smugglers. These ships have armored bow rams, banks 
of oars (and a normal crew of 36 to man them), and two 
masts for crowding sails on in pursuit or when speed is 
essential. 

The navy's base occupies the fortified Deepwater Isle, 
which protects the harbor mouth from ill weather and 
from seaborne attackers, and is garrisoned by almost a 
thousand guardsmen at all times. At least two naval rak 
ers are always on patrol outside the harbor, and another 
two are on "ready" duty within the harbor. At least four 
others will be on extended patrol somewhere off the 
Sword Coast on any day in peacetime. These warships are 
supported by over twenty small lateen-sailed galleys, or 
"strikers," and fifteen large, wallowing troop-and-supply 
vessels. (For AD&D(r) game statistics of these vessels, refer 
to the "Waterdhavian Ship Table" listed under "The 
Order of Master Shipwrights" in Chapter Three of the 
Who's Who in Waterdeep book.) 

WaXeRdeep's SubTeRRaKieaK) 
Geography 

The City of Waterdeep is built upon the rock and rubble 
of the slopes of Mount Waterdeep, built up and quarried 
flat over generations of habitation to create the high and 
stable plateau that aids in its defense. At least three major 
networks of underground passages are known to exist 
beneath Waterdeep's busy streets. As its name implies. 
Undermountain lies largely beneath Mount Waterdeep, a 
deep, many-leveled dungeon created from a wizard's lair 
and an ancient dwarven mithral mine that is the largest 
and most famous (in tavern-talk in the city and across the 
Realms) of these. The Dungeon of the Crypt, so named 
because its above-ground entrance is one of the crypts in 
the City of the Dead, lies under the North Ward, and is 
less spoken of. The third of these labyrinths is the city 
sewers, detailed in Chapter Four of this book. The major 
channels of the sewers are navigable, and the secondary 
channels may be crawled or swum by man-sized beings of 
bravery (or stupidity), daring, and agility, although the 
curious are warned that the sewers have gratings at awk 
ward places to prevent their use as a subterranean high 
way and to hamper the movements of less desirable 
visitors from the sea depths. 




10 



Fresh, clean water (for drinking and cooking) in 
Waterdeep comes from deep wells under Castle Water- 
deep and under Farwatch Tower, and from shallow wells 
around the city. These wells are attended at all times by 
members of the Watch. To deliberately poison or 
attempt to block access to or fill in one of these wells is 
an offense punishable by immediate death (i.e. as soon 
as the offender is within blade's reach). "Spillwater," the 
not-quite-so-clean water used for bathing and washing of 
animals, buildings, and equipment, and for the watering 
of plants, comes from cisterns on the roofs and the cel 
lars of most buildings in Waterdeep; cellar cisterns are 
fed by sloping catchbasins on roofs, and have gratings to 
filter out solid debris that finds its way onto the roof out 
of the collected water as it flows down wall pipes into 
the cellar; smaller roof-cisterns are merely open-topped 
basins, and are cleaned often by users below to avoid 
contact with dead pigeons and the like. Used spillwater 
is referred to as "nightwater," and is used to sluice cham 
ber pots into the sewers. 

PopuldOoN of the OTV 

W aterdeep's population rarely falls below 122,000 
beings. The actual number varies greatly with the 
seasons, as so much of it consists of those visiting in the 
course of conducting trade. In times of busiest trade, the 
city often plays host to five times as many people. Such 
busy times (apart from special occasions caused by wars, 
bountiful harvests, Shieldmeet, and the like) occur fairly 
regularly at "full spring," when winter is fully gone without 
threat to the reasonable-minded of its return and the trans 
portation routes over land and sea are fully open, and after 
the fall harvest in the North (before the threat of winter's 
mud can become a reality, closing the roads, and the gra 
naries and warehouses are bursting with food destined for 
the South). Almost every surface-dwelling race of the 
Realms has representatives that call the City of Splendors 
their, home, though the majority is of Northern human 
descent. Respectable amounts of elves dwell here, as well as 
the rare gnomes and dwarves, but the halfling population 
grows annually, becoming the largest demihuman race in 
residence here. Even some "evil" races come to Waterdeep 
to trade, and the watch and the guard keep sharp eyes out 
for the rare ogrish and giant traders from the North and the 
lizard men from the south. 


GeocKapbv of The 
"Savage Noitth" 

W hat of the world outside of the safe, protective 
walls of Waterdeep? No city exists on its own, iso 
lated from all else, and the City of Splendors is the pri 
mary port of the northern Sword Coast! What of her 
neighbors, allies, trading partners, and the terrain from 
which the fair city grew? Here's what to expect once the 
wagons pull out the South Gate or the ship maneuvers 
out into open sea. 

"The Savage Frontier." "The Savage North." "The 
North." The terms are many but they all refer to the 
same area: The area between the Sword Coast and Anau- 
roch the Great Desert. Where the boundaries end 
depend on one's point of view. To Waterdhavians, the 
North begins at the city, stretches due east of Waterdeep 
to the desert, and encompasses all parts north of this 
line. To the satraps of Calimshan, the "cold land of sav 
ages and beasts" begins at the northern border of Amn, 
Many cartographers in the Realms today compromise 
between the many and varied "borders" and delineate the 
start of the Savage North at the northern banks of 
Delimbiyr, the River Shining. 

The North is a rugged, heavily wooded wilderness only 
lightly civilized and ruled by humans. Such civilization 
envelops the coastal regions (as far inward as the Long 
Road running from Mirabar to Waterdeep) securely; the 
vast, open, rolling valley lands of the river Dessarin are less 
secure, and the eastern regions with the High Forest and 
the mountains are only as civilized as far as one's sword 
point. The North has been this way for decades, but it 
wasn't always so. 

One thousand years ago, the North consisted of a num 
ber of civilized elven and dwarven realms surrounded by a 
wilderness roamed by fearsome monsters, and such races as 
ores, trolls, hobgoblins, and bugbears. Human tribes were 
few and primitive, dwelling along the coast. The lower 
birth rates of the demihuman races rendered them less able 
to replace casualties suffered in their almost continual 
fighting with the aggressive humanoids and their numbers 
dwindled steadily. Pushed southward by the ever-expand 
ing, fecund ore tribes, the dwarves and elves either aban 
doned realms in retreat or fell, overwhelmed by numbers 
and slaughtered. The many resulting, largely-empty dwar 
ven delves and holds are what are now referred to by 


11 




human adventurers as "dungeons." 

The demihumans, although they achieved many splen 
did victories in battle, could not stem the humanoid tide 
even when they united (see the Fallen Kingdom under 
"Places of Interest" below). Today, the dwarves remain only 
around the richest mithral mines in the North, and no 
known elven settlements of any appreciable size exist north 
of Evereska. The rise of human power in the North out 
stripped even the growth of the ores, and prevented the 
total collapse of civilization in the area. 

The North remains a land of riches, mineral wealth 
equalled nowhere else in the known Realms, and seemingly 
endless stands of timber of a size not found elsewhere in 
Faerun. Game is plentiful, and the landscape is beautiful. 
Be warned, though-danger is always lurking and, for the 
most part, the law of the North is the law of the sword. 

Places of ImTcrcsT 

Ardeep Forest 

Until recently, this ancient forest, a remnant of the woods 
that once covered the North from the river Delimbiyr to 
the mountains of the Utter North, was the home of the 
moon elves. This ancient race of elvenkind once lived in 
harmony with men and dwarves in a kingdom that 
stretched to the east of the forest, in what is now rolling 
moorlands known as the Fallen Kingdom. The forest is now 
forlorn and largely empty. The elves have left the forest of 
tall blueleaf, duskwood, and weirwood trees unattended. 
This region was once known as "Faraway Forest" to the 
elves because, although it was near the western coast of 
Faerun, it was still "far away" from what the elves consid 
ered home: the island of Evermeet. The elves have all gone 
overseas to Evermeet via many covert voyages aboard The 
Morning Bird, a ship owned by Mirt the Moneylender, a 
local merchant of Waterdeep. 

Somewhere deep in this forest is the overgrown tomb of 
Reluraun, a warrior-hero of the elves, who is said to lie in 
his vault clad in magical elven chain mail, with a sword +2, 
dragon slayer upon his breast. According to legend, the 
tomb is not unattended; magical creatures guard Reluraun's 
remains. "Ardeep" was the name of the western region of 
the Fallen Kingdom and now gives this forest its name. 

Berun's Hill 

This local landmark is a bare-topped, conical hill that com 
mands a splendid view of the valley of the river Dessarin to 
the east. This lookout has often been used in times of trou 


ble to watch for advancing ore tribes coming down from 
the north and east. It is named for the famous ranger 
Berun, who met his end here at the hands of such a horde. 
He failed to stop the ores, but singlehandedly slew over 
three hundred ere he was overwhelmed. Bandits sometimes 
watch from the hilltop for the approach of likely victims. 
Northern legend mentions an ancient dwarven tomb 
beneath the hill, rich in golden armor and treasures, but 
none have ever found it including the dwarves, who now 
know no more than the legend. 

Citadel Adbar 

This mighty fortress is named for King Adbar, the ancient 
dwarf who built it over a thousand years ago when the 
lands about were Delzoun, the Northkingdom of the 
dwarves. Quarried of granite, the Citadel can house up to 
60,000 dwarves in comfort; men find its defensive tunnels 
and hallways too dark and cramped. The Citadel today 
holds approximately 14,000 dwarves; the savage courage of 
these dwarven warriors, under King Harbromm, protects 
the mithral mines in the mountains nearby from the ore 
tribes that threaten to sweep away this last northern 
stronghold of the dwarves. Citadel Adbar still produces the 
finest metals (sword-blades, "forge-bars," and axe- and pick- 
heads are the most numerous forms in which trade leaves 
the Citadel) in the North. 

The dwarves' output has dwindled in recent years, how 
ever, as the miners grow fewer and ore raids upon the trade- 
caravans (which travel west from Adbar to the city of 
Sundabar) grow fiercer. The banner of Citadel Adbar bears 
the Forge-Mark of the King in red upon a silver field: an 
upright single-bladed handaxe enclosed by a circle of 
flames. 

Citadel of Many Arrows 

This fortified city, once known as the dwarven hold of Fel- 
barr during the time of the realm of Delzoun, stands on a 
rocky mount in the center of a mountain valley. Once 
home to 25,000 dwarves, this citadel was among the first 
abandoned by the dwarves due to dwindling mine activity. 
More than three hundred winters ago, the dwarves left, and 
the citadel was quickly claimed and garrisoned by 3,000 
troops out of Silverymoon. 

Fifty years after the human occupation began, an ore 
horde of awesome proportions surrounded and besieged the 
citadel. Heedless of losses on both sides, the Battle of Many 
Arrows lasted for more than four months, the battle so- 



named for the use of all the defenders' arrows which slew 
many ores - enough for surviving ores to climb up the 
corpses and scale the citadel walls! The battle ended with 
the fall of the Citadel of Many Arrows and the outright 
slaughter of the remaining garrisons. 

Today, some 40,000 ores are crammed into the fortified 
city, a horde far too numerous to dislodge and too danger 
ous to ignore. Patrols from the citadel regularly harass trav 
elers on the roads leading between Sundabar and 
Silverymoon, and (in infrequent raids to test the gates) 
threaten to overcome one or both cities. 

Delimbiyr, The River Shining 

This clear, cool river forms the eastern and southern 
boundaries of the High Forest, as it runs over a thousand 
miles from its headwaters in the Nether Mountains to the 
sea west of Daggerford. The River Shining is fast-flowing, 
and its waters are mint-sweet and safe to drink. It is home 
to many szorp, a brown, trout-like fish whose white flesh is 
tasty, and which forms much of the daily diet of the inhabi 
tants of Loudwater. Delimbiyr is navigable from its mouth 
to Loudwater, and from above The Shining Falls to its 
headwaters. 

Delzoun 

The Northkingdom of the dwarves, named for its founder, 
Delzoun is only a shining memory today. Once, 2,000 years 
ago, it stretched from the Ice Mountains in the utter north 
to the Nether Mountains in the south, bordered on the east 
by the Narrow Sea (an inland sea now vanished beneath 
the desert wastes of Anauroch) and on the west by Silvery 
Moon Pass (a location just east of the present-day city of 
Silverymoon). 

Delzoun was a rich and proud land, and was considered 
by some to be the height of dwarven civilization and power 
in the Realms. Its smiths carved intricate and beautiful 
mechanisms to ease every task; the great dwarven families 
grew rich and famous, and gold shone everywhere about 
the persons and homes of the dwarves of Delzoun. Dwarven 
holds spanned the North, including a few holds for hireling 
humans; nearly all of those are empty now, the once-happy 
people who populated them are gone, and their former 
strongholds now play host to monsters. 

Today, aside from the recently rediscovered Mithral Hall 
to the northeast. Citadel Adbar guards the richest mines 
still known to the Longbeards (dwarven elders), and ores 
menace men and dwarves on all sides. A trade road built by 
the ancient dwarven king Adbar runs south from the 


Citadel to the Fork, once the site of the grand mansion of 
the dwarven hero Ghaurin, but today is simply a meeting 
of roads in the wilderness. One road runs east to ruined 
Ascore, once a port on the Narrow Sea. It is still rumored 
to contain treasures - and some fell evil that keeps even 
ores away from it. The other road runs west to Sundabar, 
now a city of men. Save some forgotten dwarven tombs 
within the mountains of the Northlands, these are all that 
is left of the proud Northkingdom of Delzoun. 

Dessarin, The River 

The cold and deep River Dessarin flows into the sea just 
south of Waterdeep at Zundbridge. Its waters are home 
to the silver shalass, fish that are a delicacy across the 
North. The Dessarin itself rises in the Lost Mountains, 
two isolated peaks in the High Forest, barely five hun 
dred miles northeast of the City of Splendors, but the 
Dessarin is fed by many other rivers and streams. The 
waters of the Surbrin come down from the Endless Ice 
Sea, north of the Wall (the mountain range that marks 
the northern edge of habitable land in the North). Two 
rivers join the Surbrin from the east: the "Laughingflow" 
(the original elven name is lost, and only its rough 
translation survives) and the Rauvin (named for a leg 
endary dwarven explorer), which runs east into the 
heart of the old kingdom of Delzoun. A small boat can 
take travelers from the sea all the way to icy falls east of 
Dead Ore Pass if ore attacks and the blessing of Tymora, 
goddess of luck, allow. 

The network of rivers is fordable at Ironford and at Dead 
Horse Ford, east of Yartar. It is bridged at the Stone Bridge, 
Yartar, Nesme, Silverymoon, Everlund, and Sundabar. its 
upper reaches from a vast, open, grassy basin, rising in the 
east into the moors. These lands are still roamed by trolls 
today; in the past, "the everlasting ones" were so numerous 
that the fires set to bum their corpses raged so often that 
men though the land would never be green again. The 
"Evermoors" have proven not to be barren, however. 

Eaerlann 

Even this elven kingdom's name is forgotten to all but a 
few in the North. Once, its environs stretched from Turn 
stone Pass in the north to the Shining Falls in the south, 
encompassing the upper valley of the River Shining and 
The High Forest to a hundred miles west of the Delimbiyr. 
Eaerlann's people, deeds, and monuments are lost with 
time, with any surviving elven members gone over the sea 
to Evermeet long ago. Today, the remains of an old road 






13 


and an abandoned ruined port mark the site of Eaerlann's 
trade-link to the lands west and south of it. Once, wagons 
took trade around the Shining Falls and back onto the 
river, and Eaerlann's slim barges were seen often up and 
down the River Shining. Now, not even treasures or lost 
riches remain of this lost kingdom (or, at least, none that 
have ever been discovered and reported), but that doesn't 
stop many adventurers (and soldiers of Elellgate Keep) from 
searching the ruins. 

Everlund 

Lying to the south of Silverymoon and the River Rauvin, 
the walled city of Everlund is home to human caravan- 
masters, adventurers, and tradesmen. A Council of six 
Elders rules here. The population, always changing with 
the travel trade demands, is usually around 12,000 of all 
non-evil races. 

Everlund is an "open city," tolerant like Waterdeep, but 
it must be ever-vigilant about trolls to the west, ores from 
the mountains to the northeast, and the fell power of Hell- 
gate Keep to the east. The Council hires adventurers to 
patrol outside the city, and to bolster its defenses when 
large-scale attacks are feared. 

Fallen Kingdom 

This now-vanished realm was a short-lived effort to stem 
the demihuman decline in the North by uniting elves, 
dwarves, and humans in one common realm. The realm 
was crushed by the repeated attacks of vast ore hordes, 
although the slaughter done to the ores drove them back 
north for many generations. The Fallen Kingdom had 
many names; the "real" name is lost in time, but various 
district names still exist from that lost dominion (such 
as Ardeep). The Fallen Kingdom today refers to the 
rolling wilderness due east to the City of Splendors, 
although this was only the northwest end of the long- 
ago united realm. 

Fallen Lands, The 

This is the present-day name for the strip of habitable land 
west of Anauroch, stretching between the "Far Forests" 
(now overrun by evil things out of Hellgate Keep) and 
Weathercote Wood. The Fallen Lands are now home only 
to monsters, although rumors persist of powerful mages 
inhabiting the southern end, and hurling back the evil 
creatures with their art. This was once part of Netheril, and 
mysterious magics still saturate the area. 

When the adventurers Vanthorm and Haladan visited 


the Fallen Lands some fifteen winters ago, they found a 
beholder of awesome size with hobgoblin servants directing 
a strange bestial breeding program with captured monsters; 
since that time, anyone that went into the Fallen Lands 
has not been heard from again. The last report from here 
came two years ago by some Harpers traversing the Grey 
Peak mountains, who spotted flying creatures of monstrous 
size and unfamiliar shapes, along with many areas of 
blasted, desolate ground within the Fallen Lands; whatever 
lurks there is luckily (for the rest of the Realms) distracted 
by an interior conflict. 

Fireshear 

An isolated mining city on the frigid northern arm of the 
Sword Coast, this cold and grim human city is the site of 
extremely rich veins of copper and silver, exposed in an 
unusual rift caused by a long-ago volcanic explosion or 
meteor strike that blasted out a large bowl-like crater, 
shearing away tons of rock (hence, the name "Fireshear"), 
exposing the deposits of metallic ore for easy discovery and 
mining. Fireshear is ruled by three Senior Merchants (from 
Mirabar, Neverwinter, and Waterdeep respectively) who 
ensure that the city falls under the control of no other city 
of the North and well within the control of the Lords' 
Alliance. Fireshear's 15,000 inhabitants are all miners; all 
else-goods, food, and services-comes by ship during the 
summer, when the ice allows. Fireshear's arms are a crossed 
blade, pick, and shovel at the base of an orange, leaping 
flame on an ice blue field. 

Gauntlgrym 

Gauntlgrym is a large, underground city built by dwarves 
for humans in the early years of the amicable existences of 
dwarves, elves, and men in the North. It is now abandoned 
and holds great riches. All who have ever heard the ballads 
and tales of bards in the North know of Gauntlgrym, but 
none know the precise location of the treasure-trove. The 
dwarves themselves know only that it lies north of the 
Dessarin and its tributaries, near the valley of Khedrun. 
Khedrun was a famous dwarven hero who in legend carved 
out the homeland of the dwarves in the North with his axe 
from lands dark with wolves, ores, and bugbears; Khedrun, 
in truth, existed, but in a time so long ago that no one can 
now separate fact from fantasy. 

Ten years ago, a trio of adventurers arrived in Water- 
deep in triumph, entering the Copper Cup to immedi 
ately proclaim they had discovered Gauntlgrym! After a 
manic spending spree in Waterdeep on armor and 






weapons, the group set out again one week later to 
recover the bulk of the treasures; no one ever saw them 
again, nor has any other word been told of Gauntlgrym 
in the passing decade. 

Gaustar's Creek 

This small, fast-flowing stream has cut a narrow but deep 
gorge along its route 100 miles northeast of Waterdeep 
which ends where it merges with the River Dessarin. Many 
tiny caves and tunnels have been scratched out of the soft 
rock of the gorge by various creatures, including a long- 
established thirst of stirges. This small creek is named for 
the dwarf Gaustar, who is said to have buried a large chest 
of precious gems somewhere along the banks of the creek 
nearly 60 years ago. His people had been forced from their 
northern delves 75 winters ago and, being harried by ores 
all the way south, were slaughtered one by one. Gaustar's 
treasure has never been found, or at least no one has ever 
admitted to finding it. 

Hellgate Keep 

In days of old, when Eaerlann began to suffer ore raids from 
the north and the human realm of Netheril fell to the 
advancing Anauroch desert, the elves built a great fortress 
in the head-valley of the river Delimbiyr, commanding 
Turnstone Pass to the northwest and their own northern 
borders. That citadel, and its task of defending against ores, 
the elves turned over to humans. 

After hundreds of years of success, followed by a genera 
tion of peace when no ore raids came, the city's people 
grew proud and splendid. The fortified city, known as 
Ascalhorn-it was built on a jutting crag known as Ascal's 
Horn-was thought of, as Silverymoon is today, as another 
Myth Drannor. The folk of Ascalhorn dabbled in sorcery, 
planning to recapture that famed city's splendor and power, 
but only succeeded in destroying themselves. 

One ambitious mage opened a gate to other, nether 
planes, letting loose diabolical beings into the Realms that 
soon overran the citadel and all the humans within it. 
Magical pleas for help from the besieged natives only 
brought worse evils into Ascalhorn. The city, now known 
as Hellgate Keep, is shunned by humans and its forces are 
held in check by the allied forces of Citadel Adbar, Silvery 
moon, and Sundabar. Those cities, reinforced by the open 
city of Everlund, hold Turnstone Pass against the Keep's 
forces to prevent unchecked attacks throughout the North 
by the Keep's evil extraplanar armies. 


Helm's Hold 

Southeast of Neverwinter lies a fortified monastery dedi 
cated to Helm, the God of Guardians. The abbey was 
founded nearly twenty years ago by a retired member of the 
Company of Crazed Venturers. Starting as a single farm 
known as Helm's Stead, it has grown greatly over the years, 
with its main buildings fortified in 1353 DR against bandit 
and monster attacks (hence its current name). It is now a 
thriving and totally self-sufficient farming and religious 
community of over 700 faithful members who grow their 
own food and herd livestock, as well as patrol the area dili 
gently (especially a wild magic area in Neverwinter 
Woods). There is one small building within the 
monastery's walls set aside for helping travelers and 
strangers seeking shelter and aid. 

Since its creation. Helm's Hold and its founder, Dumal 
Erard (LG hm Pall2), have weathered many troubles. The 
Hold is regarded with suspicion by folk of Neverwinter due 
to Helm's apparent inaction during the Godswar in 1358, 
and the faithful seek to repair their god's reputation in the 
Realms. Dumal has been confronted by many paladins who 
seek his position as First Guardian of Helm's Hold (the 
leadership is decided by martial combat) and has defeated 
six challengers over the past decades. 

Herald's Holdfast 

A day's journey west of Silverymoon brings travelers to a 
dell north of the River Rauvin where lies the Herald's 
Holdfast, the spell-guarded citadel of Old Night, one of 
the five High Heralds of western Faerun. The Herald's 
Holdfast is a precious library of heraldry and genealogy of 
the known human, elven, dwarven, halfling, and gnomish 
peoples as far back as records can be traced. It is said to be 
an invincible fortress, and is respected by both good and 
evil races of the North-even some of the histories and 
badges of the ore, goblin, and hobgoblin races are pre 
served within its walls. 

High Forest 

This vast woodland covers much of the eastern central 
North, stretching for almost five hundred miles from its 
southern edges (near Secomber) to its northern end (near 
Turnstone Pass). The High Forest is home to most known 
races of intelligent woodland creatures. Treants, the "wood 
rulers," are closest to Everlund, and that part of the Forest 
is known as "The Woods of Turlang" in deference to the 
treants' aeons-old leader, Turlang "the Thoughtful." Men 
know little of the interior of the High Forest, although 



korred are known to inhabit the headwaters of the 
Dessarin, and several networks of subterranean caverns 
underlie the Forest's western edge. 

The Unicorn Run enters the interior of the High Forest 
from the south. To the east, along the western bank of the 
upper Delimbiyr, elves of old had a realm called Eaerlann 
that was abandoned when Ascalhorn fell, becoming the fell 
Hellgate Keep. Despite the dangers from the Keep, druids 
moved into the region known as the Tall Trees to preserve 
and defend the forest. To this day, the druids remain here, 
defending the trees and the forest creatures from the evil of 
Hellgate Keep as well as the careless evils of adventurers 
who might wander their way. 

The Forest is so vast that travelers can, and have, found 
every sort of woodland creature within its green depths. 
Rumors of lost cities and treasure regularly surface in tav 
erns about the North, but the truth is, few dare to investi 
gate. With all the powerful adventurers resident in the 
North, few have chosen the High Forest for their home 
(aside from the Nine and the Mistmaster, and even then 
they did not settle the Forest's interior). Lesser men have 
been much slower to cut trees and carve roads through the 
High Forest than the settlers in the Dragonreach lands. 
While few openly admit to it, there is something about the 
Forest itself that warns civilization away. Tribes of nymphs 
and dryads? Tappan, god of the korred? Perhaps Mielikki, 
the patron goddess of the rangers, or her new Champion? 
Only time and daring exploration will tell. 

House of Stone 

To the east of Ardeep Forest is a huge, square tower built 
over a thousand years ago by dwarves under the charge of 
Turgo Ironfist. The citadel was built to help defend what is 
now known as the Fallen Kingdom against tribes of attack 
ing ores, hogoblins, bugbears, and trolls. The dwarves exca 
vated huge, multileveled storage granaries out of the rock, 
and built above them a fortress cunningly crafted of fitted 
stones. The fortress came to be known as the "House of 
Stone" after an old childrens' rhyme: 

An elf calls the deepest wood his own, 

A human everywhere may roam, 

But a dwarf just wants a house of stone. 

For many years, the moon elves of Ardeep guarded the 
tower, letting no one near it. Since their departure 
decades ago, several groups of adventurers set out to 
explore the structure. As far as Waterdhavians know, 
none of these groups have ever returned. In old tales, the 
House of Stone is said to have many hidden doors, slid 


ing rooms, and chambers that rise and fall in shafts like 
buckets in a well. The House of Stone is also believed to 
have dangerous traps designed to capture intruders, and 
numerous caches of treasure (rooms of gold coin and of 
gems mined by the dwarves from everywhere across the 
North). Most importantly, an armory of weapons for the 
defense of the kingdom is apparently collected here, 
including weapons of powerful magic crafted by the elves 
and dwarves of long ago. 

The famous bard Mintiper Moonsilver was allowed to 
see the House of Stone some years ago at the permission of 
Eroan, archmage of the moon elves. He reported that the 
gates to it were open. "A hill giant had forced them apart 
some months before my visit, for its huge corpse hung just 
beyond, impaled on a massive stone claw that had sprung 
out into the space beyond the doors. The elves just smiled 
when I asked if the place was full of such traps, and said it 
was best to assume so from safely outside the walls." It 
seems unlikely that later visitors will bear Mintiper's report 
in mind as a warning. Elaith Craulnobur has been gather 
ing information on the House of Stone for nearly twenty 
years, and he will soon attempt to challenge the traps and 
dangers (with a group of expendable hirelings and adven 
turers, if possible). 

The Iceflow 

North of Luskan, this chilling, fast-rushing river thunders 
down out of the icy interior of the northern arm of the Sword 
Coast. It is not navigable by any normal means, as its waters 
are just above freezing, and travel at terrifying speed down 
through a great ice gorge. In spring and high summer, great 
slabs of ice break off the gorge walls and fall into the waters, 
shattering with the force of a triple-strength ice storm spell as 
they spray the vicinity with boulders of broken ice. These 
chunks of ice are then swept down the gorge and out to sea, 
to drift south amid the great icebergs from the Sea of Moving 
Ice. Remorhaz are known to live in the area, and great hor 
rors known as "ice spiders" and "snow spiders" have also been 
encountered here. Human prospectors who survived the trip 
there and back found no rich ores in what they could reach of 
the cliff walls, but there are ever-persistent rumors of ancient 
ruins and buried riches in secret caves in the gorge. Water- 
deep's Knights of the Sword Coast once visited the gorge 
nine years ago, and they found no treasures but stopped a 
tribe of frost giants from establishing a settlement on the top 
of the gorge above the Iceflow. 


16 



Ironmaster 

This isolated, stone-towered city of mountain dwarves is 
built into the rock walls of a frozen valley; many of its stor 
age chambers and passages are tunneled out of never-melt 
ing ice and its buildings merge seamlessly into the 
valley-side. Ironmaster is home to nearly 9,000 dwarves, 
and no other races are welcome in this city. From the deep 
est tunnels of the city, mine shafts lead down to some of 
the largest and most extensive iron deposits ever found in 
the Realms. The dwarves refine this and fashion it into 
pots, pans, and "forge-bars" (flat bars of metal that a smith 
elsewhere can forge into something). Ironmaster's arms are 
a red anvil on a gray diamond-shaped field. Its ruler is Lord 
Clanmaster Strogue Sstar (LG dm F9). 

Leilon 

This small human mining community lies along the High 
Road on the Sword Coast. It lacks defensive walls and a 
proper harbor, but an earthen embankment with a wooden 
palisade shields it on the landward side, save for the gate 
less town entrance that pierces the embankment. A dozen 
massive, battered barges are loaded into the shallows in the 
spring and summer, and are poled and then rowed out to 
meet ships and unload means of rickety cranes that rise 
from the stems of the barges into their holds. Needless to 
say, this is a fair-weather operation only, and tricky even 
then if the wind is fresh and the seas high. Increasingly, 
Waterdhavian entrepreneurs have sent wagons north to 
buy the copper, nickel, and silver of Leilon at bargain 
prices and take it south to sell at Water deep's harbor for a 
generous profit. 

Leilon's mines are guarded by the "Lances of Leilon," a 
force of some two hundred fully-armed, mounted lancers 
used to fighting off pirates, ores, bugbears, and trolls. Each 
lancer usually carries an axe and knife, a sword of some 
sort, his or her lance, and a light crossbow which he or she 
can fire easily from horseback. Leilon's total population is 
around 3,000; its ruler is Pelindar Filmarya, Lord of Leilon. 
Leilon is a firm ally of Waterdeep and the Lords' Alliance. 
In the mountains east of the mines is the abandoned dwar- 
ven hold of Southkrypt, an old silver mine in centuries past 
that is now home to many strange and dangerous monsters. 

Llorkh 

Many old, nearly-worked-out mines tunnel the mountains 
to the east and north of this isolated little town. Llorkh was 
once home to nearly 2,000 humans and 300 dwarves, but 
with the fall of their recognized ruler, Llorkh fell under the 


shadow of the Zhentarim in the guise of the town's new 
lord, Geildarr. All the dwarves have since abandoned 
Llorkh, and have now joined King Bruenor Battlehammer 
at Mithral Hall in hopes of better lives. The humans who 
remain in the town are now under the "protection" of the 
garrisoned Lord's Men, fully armored and armed men who 
defend the town and, more specifically, enforce the lord's 
will. Zhentilar reinforcements and supplies funnel through 
Llorkh with more regularity, and, while small, it seems that 
Zhentil Keep has a toehold in the North with Llorkh, 
though they too are subject to attacks from the evil 
denizens of Hellgate Keep. 

Long saddle 

This tiny agricultural village of little more than one hun 
dred persons is notable as the ancestral home of the 
Harpell clan. Many Harpells grew to become mages of 
influence and no little power in the North, including Mal- 
chor Harpell formerly of the Company of Crazed Venturers 
in Waterdeep. Longsaddle is little more than the local daily 
farmers' market with a waystables, a stirrup-maker and bell- 
caster, and an inn called the Gilded Horseshoe. The village 
Elder, or ruler, is Adanac Harpell, present patriarch of the 
Harpell family (NG hm W9). He and his clan live in 
Harpell House, called the "Ivy Mansion" by the farmers, on 
the hill at the center of Longsaddle. 

Loudwater 

This town of 4,000 lies almost at the midpoint of the 
River Shining and spans the river with a spectacular 
arching bridge made over a millennia ago by the dwarf 
Iirkos Stoneshoulder for the elves who lived here at the 
time. Few elves are here today, although almost a quar 
ter of the town's inhabitants are half-elven, the rest 
being human Here, the river has been cut into a wide 
pool to skirt around upthrusting rocks and to provide a 
loading and unloading area for cargo that of old went 
overland to north of the Shining Falls (and back to the 
river), and today goes east to Llorkh for assembly into 
caravans there. 

Loudwater is a beautiful place where green, grassy banks 
line the river, and great trees overhang it; the wooden 
buildings of the town are of all shapes and sizes, nearly 
blending back into the forest with the overgrown ivy and 
hanging plants on them. Loudwater's demesne includes its 
"claimed lands" which stretch for two days' ride up and 
down the river. Loudwater is defended by patrols of 20 war 
riors, the full guard numbering 300 in all, and all under the 



command of two "gauntlets": Harazos Thelbrimm (LN hm 
F5) and Kalahar Twohands (CG hem F6). Both of these 
men are under the command of the High Lord of Loudwa- 
ter Nanathlor Greysword (NG hm Fll); Nanathlor left his 
native Nimbral in his youth, abandoning a noble title and 
privileges in hopes of finding his own land, and he finally 
found himself ruling a land that needed him. 

Luskan 

A maritime merchant city, Luskan is fierce, warlike, and 
proud. An important port where it lies at the mouth of the 
unnavigable river Mirar, Luskan serves as the chief transfer 
point for the mineral wealth of the mines of Mirabar. The 
Mirar is fast, icy cold, and rocky, but a road parallels it 
inland to Mirabar, and down this road may come many 
wagons of forge-bars for the markets of all Faerun. The per 
ils of both the coastal Fligh Road and the interior Long 
Road south from Mirabar relegate most metal trade to ships 
out of Luskan. 

Luskan's traders "wear furs, haughty expressions, and 
ready swords," as Sammereza Sulphontis once put it, and 
can be found all down the Sword Coast. The city's popula 
tion is approximately 16,000 humans and they do not wel 
come visitors. The only known accommodations for 
travelers are the Seven Sails inn and the notorious dock- 
side dive called The Cutlass. 

Luskan is ruled by five Fligh Captains, who command a 
standing army of 200 spearmen and at least 14 warships, 
each with a crew of 70 archers. In peacetime, these ships 
operate as "unsanctioned" pirates up and down the Sword 
Coast; the High Captains direct them, but pretend they are 
independents operating in defiance of Luskan law. These 
pirates attempt to make all shippers use Luskan as a port or 
to only trust Luskan shipping by preying on all other ships 
and especially all shipping that visits Waterdeep. Due to 
this thinly veiled threat, Waterdeep's naval rakers and 
fighting ships are always on constant patrol. Luskan's 
pirates have no connection with the pirates of the Pirate 
Isles south and west of Amn. 

Luskan has waged almost constant war against naval pow 
ers it High Captains feel they can defeat. A decade ago, the 
Luskanites crushed all resistance at Ruathym and established 
a presence there (as well as subjugating the shipping out of 
Ruathym) and were only forced out of Ruathym by the com 
bined fleets of the entire Lords' Alliance. They have no 
desire to harass Lantanna shipping due to the many defeats 
(described as "humiliating slaughter" in Lantan) the Luskan 
ites have been handed; raids on Mintarn and Orlumbor con 


tinue a tradition of defeat due to the naval backing of Water- 
deep and Amn. At this time, there are a new crop of rumors 
in Luskan, hinting at connections between the Zhentarim 
and the Hosttower of the Arcane; whether true or not, it 
pays to be alert and conscious of any and all possible dangers 
within a city like Luskan. 

Maiden's Tomb Tor 

This bare, high peak is a landmark named for an unknown 
barbarian princess who was buried at the foot of the peak 
412 years ago by warriors of Waterdeep. This honor 
occurred after the princess' people had attacked the City of 
Splendors in the harshest time of winter and had been 
repelled. The princess and her bodyguard fought with such 
ferocity that they slew thrice their number of fully armored 
Waterdhavian fighters in their day-long, bloody retreat. 
The barbarians died fighting to the very last warrior, ending 
their valiant campaign at the foot of the Tor 20 miles east 
of the City of Splendors. In memory of their bravery, the 
princess and the last of her bodyguards were laid to rest in a 
cairn under the summit of the Tor. 

Ten years ago, a tribe of more than 450 kobolds, led by 
their chief Kuthil, took up residence in the caverns 
beneath Maiden's Tomb Tor. Their presence there (and 
some settlements in the Rat Hills) went unnoticed by the 
patrols of the Waterdeep guard for four years. Upon discov 
ery, the guard and various mercenary groups set upon the 
kobolds, causing them to flee deep within the many subter 
ranean passages under the Tor. The tunnels were sealed 
with rock and the area was heavily patroled for three years; 
the patrols have fallen off recently, the guard believing the 
kobolds gone for good. If kobolds (or something far worse) 
are still under the Tor and digging to the surface, no one in 
the city knows or worries overmuch. 

Mere of Dead Men 

A vast salt swamp stretches along the Sword Coast shore 
here for over a hundred miles, reaching a width of over 
thirty miles at its greatest extent. It is a desolate, insect-rid 
den place seldom visited by any civilized races, and is home 
to many fell creatures. The Mere of Dead Men gained its 
name from the thousands of men slain here when ore 
hordes that outnumbered them overwhelmed and routed 
them by striking south from the present-day site of Triboar 
and east across the Stone Bridge and Ironford. The ores 
pursued the men westward between the coastal peaks, and 
slaughtered the human army as it was forced back into the 
icy waves. 





18 



Travelers on the High Road, which skirts the Mere to 
the east, often travel for three days and nights without 
stopping to avoid camping near the Mere. Will o' wisps 
bobbing over the Mere are common sights by night on 
this stretch of the High Road. Legends speak of floating 
islands in the midst of the Mere, of lizard men under the 
command of liches, and other fantastic tales often used to 
scare children and entice adventurers. More recent tales 
to come out of the Mere, from a brave few that venture 
into the dark waters of the swamp, are rife with mention 
of darktentacles of gargantuan proportions, yuan-ti 
slavers, temples to inhuman gods, giant leeches with bul- 
lywug riders, and a will o' wisp of monstrous size that 
pulsed with black energy. One madman's ravings about a 
black worm have gone mostly ignored, save by his host, 
Blackrabbas Khuulthund the Waterdhavian sage (who 
now acts as the man's guardian); Blackrabbas believes this 
"blackened wyrm that charmed the plants and darkened 
the air before him" could be the long-lost black dragon 
Chardansearavitriol (two rare elven historical texts in 
Blackrabbas' possession refer to his legendary name of 
"Ebondeath"), a beast not seen on the Sword Coast since 
Ahghairon's youth and now become a great wyrm! 

Mirabar 

The richest city north of Waterdeep is Mirabar, the chief 
mining center of the North. The Mines of Mirabar pro 
vide almost all known metals in vast quantities, and are 
guarded from ore and monster raids out of the mountains 
by a standing army of over a thousand soldiers who ride 
mountain ponies in summer and trained rothe in winter. 
The rich, cold gray stone city is surrounded by mine 
shafts and open quarries. Across the river, the worked- 
out mines west and south of the city are now used to 
quarry building stone and rubble to shore up the ever- 
crumbling gravel roads that carry Mirabar's metal wealth 
south to the rest of Faerun. 

Mirabar's Councilors meet each autumn in the Hall of 
Sparkling Stones to determine where and when to sell their 
metal, mindful of who will use it to forge weapons to make 
war on whom. Elastul Raurym, Marchion of Mirabar, rules 
the Council. His 64 bodyguards all sport platinum-plated 
armor, and are commanded by four "Hammers": Djassar, 
Hulmm, Kriiador, and Turvon (all hm F6). 

The city is noted for its everhot forges and fine gems, 
and is crowded with 19,000 grim humans and 4,000 even 
grimmer dwarves. The Royal Badge of Mirabar is an 
upright double-bladed rust red axe with a pointed haft 


and a flaring, flat base. It is usually displayed on a black 
field, but also on a purple field, and (on ship pennants) 
on white. Mirabar's merchants own many ships based in 
Luskan. 

Mount Sar & Mount Helimbrar 

These mighty peaks rise north of Waterdeep, guarding it 
(as does Mount Waterdeep) from the worst winds of the 
North. To the east runs the Long Road to Triboar and the 
northern interior ("the Savage Frontier"). To the west runs 
the coastal High Road which, after passing the two great 
peaks and lesser hills, enters the vast and treacherous 
swamp known as the Mere of Dead Men. Farther north lie 
the ruins of Iniarv's Tower. Iniarv was a mighty archmage of 
the ancient North who became a demilich later in his life. 
Some say Iniarv still guards the ruins and his subterranean 
spell libraries, though many believe the claims of the famed 
Company of the Howling Wolf, who maintain they 
destroyed Iniarv over 50 years ago. None who have investi 
gated the area have publicly made any comments on the 
truth of this dispute, however. 

Mount Sar and Mount Helimbrar are named for two 
great fomorian giants who lived in the mountains until 
they were slain by the early Warlords of Waterdeep. 
These mountains are still said to harbor stone giants and 
more fearsome menaces, although travelers also report 
seeing sylphs on the high ledges and side peaks. Gulyaikin 
Dzrund, "The Mad Dwarf," also lived in a warren of caves 
somewhere high up in Mount Sar some 80 winters ago 
(and many believe he lives there yet). Gulyaikin allegedly 
possessed rich treasures and was noted for his occasional 
fits of berserk glee. During these fits, he delighted in 
killing all sorts of passersby by rolling large rocks onto the 
High Road below and by catapulting large boulders at 
fishing boats offshore. 

The evil wizard Marune, once one of the chief agents of 
the exiled Shadow Thieves in Waterdeep prior to his exile 
from the city with the thieves, inhabits an underground 
stronghold beneath the base of Mount Helimbrar. This 
fortress has remained undetected by Waterdeep's guard 
patrols on the Long Road or the High Road, as well as the 
local monsters and the curious travelers, for the past 70 
years. In addition to the superb secrecy of his hidden lair 
(and his primary guards-six will o' wisps!), Marune chose 
to work alone with only a few compatriots over the past 
few decades, given the Shadow Thieves debacle. He has 
not been seen or heard from since he sold his house and 
holdings in both Luskan and Mirabar 25 years ago; inquir- 



19 


ers would also be hard-pressed to find any former acquain 
tances willing or able to talk about Marune there, as he left 
not a few business associates dead. Without a doubt, he still 
schemes and plans fell magical revenge on Waterdeep and 
the Lords, especially Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, the 
son of Lhestyn "the Masked Lady" who ruined his plans 
and the Shadow Thieves Guild 70 years ago. (At his last 
recorded appearance, Marune was a Chaotic Evil male 
human 17th-level wizard; in 25 years, Marune has probably 
moved up to at least 21st level or higher (DM's choice), 
and he has an arsenal of magic at his disposal. 

Nesme 

This trading town is the only settlement in the Evermoors. 
A circular fortified settlement of some 6,000 inhabitants, 
Nesme was ruled by the priests and priestesses of Waukeen 
until ten years ago; with the apparent death of Waukeen 
during the Godswar in 1358, the priesthood lost its power 
and its hold over the city. The city is a well-defended 
haven for honest traders and adventurers (who seek out 
fame and fortune in the abandoned dwarven holds to the 
north and east). On its west, Nesme has a fortified bridge 
over the river Surbrin, and fortified stables, paddocks, and 
stock pens; to the east, beyond the city walls, lie roughly 
forty farms under the protection of the Riders of Nesme. In 
the center of the city is the spired building that once 
housed the temple of Waukeen and now serves as a board 
ing hall for visiting merchants. 

Nesme is ruled by a Council, which is ruled by its First 
Speaker, Tessarin "Longtresses" Alaraun the wizardess (NG 
hf W13). With the dissolution of the temple of Waukeen 
and the priesthood, the many native adventurers and the 
Council used their riches to refortify the city and keep the 
Riders of Nesme active in the protection of Nesme. The 
former High Priestess Jygil Zelnathra still has a say in city 
politics, though she is now holds a minor Council seat as 
the apprentice of Tessarin (LN hf W4); former political 
enemies, the strife of the Godswar and the constant trou 
bles with the Uthgardt barbarians have forced these two to 
set aside their rivalry and forge a strong, respectful partner 
ship to aid the city (their magics often turn the tide against 
rampaging ore raiders). 

The Riders of Nesme, based in the stables on the west 
bank of the Surbrin, number over 400 strong, and have 
adventurers counted among their members (including 
priests of various faiths). Besides patroling the Evermoors 
for two days' ride on either bank around Nesme, they 
police the population of the city; there is a high turnover 


rate among the settlers, as travel is demanded by a life 
dominated by trade. Last of all, they also defend the city 
when the ores come (at least once each decade, though the 
raids have occurred three times in the past ten years); the 
Uthgardt barbarians of Griffon's Nest also covet the pros 
perity and riches they see in Nesme and have organized a 
number of unsuccessful sorties against the fortified town in 
the past few years. 

Netheril 

This long-ago realm lay to the east of the river Delimbiyr, 
stretching from the Nether Mountains (which gained 
their name from this realm) to Evereska in the south, and 
east to the Narrow Sea, whose shores once ran southeast 
from Ascore (see Delzoun) for hundreds of miles ere the 
Great Desert swallowed it. Netheril was a majestic realm 
of mages and magic, where many wondrous items were 
crafted (and are still found today in treasure hoards and 
tombs across the Realms). Dekanter is the only known 
surviving ruin of Netheril, although it holds no magic any 
longer. Legend holds that the mages of Netheril tried by 
titanic efforts of Art to stem the advancing desert and 
failed; soon after, they took to the air on carpets and 
other magical conveyances including rare and wondrous 
magical beasts to search for a new home. Most sages 
believe that Netheril's culture was at its height some 
4,000 years ago (and was abandoned approximately 3,000 
years ago), and that it was the earliest human civilization 
in the North. Others hold that those dates are far too old; 
Netheril's fall cannot be more than 1,000 years old at the 
most. Hard evidence, thus far, does not exist to support or 
deny any conjecture on the issue. It is known that all 
adventuring bands, bandit bands, mercenary companies, 
and others have searched the Fallen Lands and the 
Desert's Edge in hopes of gaining any of Netheril's lost 
magic and none have claimed any success. 

Neverwinter 

This friendly city of craftsmen bustles with business, but 
does it quietly; it avoids controversy and warfare, keeping 
within its walls and dealing with the outside world largely 
through merchants in Waterdeep. On the rare occasions 
when armed men (from Luskan) or ores (a more common 
sight) show up outside the walls, explosive missiles lobbed 
among them "in such numbers that it seemed a hailstorm" 
one observer once remarked, send them away again in 
much reduced numbers. Catapults and missiles alike were 
devised by the hard-working craftsmen of the city. The city 


also has more conventional forces in its standing army of 
400 archers and spearmen; they guard the city walls and 
the harbor, and they patrol the High Road as far north as 
Port Llast and as far as 100 miles south to Leilon. In peace 
time, 60 of these soldiers are always retraining, 60 are on 
leave for rest and relaxation, and 60 act as the city's watch 
(police). Like everyone else in "The City of Skilled 
Hands," the army soldiers are efficient, quiet, and take care 
that their work is done properly. 

The water-clocks and multihued lamps of the city are 
known and sought the Realms over, as their craftsmanship 
and reliability are renowned. Equally acclaimed are the gar 
deners of Neverwinter, whose skills fill the city with fruit 
bearing trees and hanging plants in summer and can keep 
the city filled with blooming flowers throughout the winter. 
Many claim this is how the city was named, with its ever 
present flowers, while others contend that it is due to the 
Neverwinter river that flows through the city from the 
deep woods to the east-its waters are so warm thatNever- 
winter's harbor never freezes. 

The Neverwinter Woods have never been logged by 
humans, and even today are largely unknown. The depths 
are said to harbor fearsome creatures and locally are 
shunned and feared by all. Ore hordes always go around the 
woods, never through them. To the southeast lies Helm's 
Hold, whose faithful priests and paladins patrol a small sec 
tion of the Neverwinter Woods' interior and some of the 
perimeter, protecting folk from the effects of a wild magic 
area discovered therein. Farther along the eastern edge of 
the woods rises the Tower of Twilight, home of the noted 
Northern mage, Malchor Harpell. 

The city is ruled by Lord Nasher (NG hm F12), a former 
adventurer who garnered much magic in his career and 
now uses it to protect himself and his bodyguard, the "Nev 
erwinter Nine" (all LG hm F5). Nasher is an amiable but 
fearless bald man who enjoys music and news of other lands 
and peoples. He rules over Neverwinter's 17,000 people 
justly and efficiently. The Royal Badge of Neverwinter con 
sists of a white swirl connecting three white snowflakes. 
Silver and blue haloes encircle the flakes. 

Port Llast 

On the High Road some 35 miles north of Neverwinter 
stands Port Llast, a small town of 700 now known mainly 
for its skilled stonecutters. Port Llast is rule by a First 
Captain, and it closely allied to Neverwinter (largely to 
avoid being conquered by Luskan, who would like to have 
a more southerly harbor for its warships). The current 


First Captain is Haeromos Dothwintyl, a retired stonema 
son (LN hm F0). 

Port Llast was once of great importance to men as the 
northernmost point of human access to the mineral riches 
of. the North when ores and duergar held the lands where 
Luskan now lies (hence, the named "last port"). At that 
time, the port was 20 times larger in population and size, 
but rampaging ore hordes have battered down the city walls 
(or the walls were plundered by citizens to repair their 
homes); the shattered remnants of the perimeter can still 
be seen circling around the town to the east. Much of the 
lands once cleared for the port have become gardens and 
cemeteries or have been reclaimed by the forest. 

Sarcrag 

This small, jutting crag of bare rock provides a perfect 
natural lookout. On a clear day, some 60 miles of territory 
can be viewed; on clear nights, campfires can be seen 90 
miles off to the north or east. Sarcrag also serves Water- 
deep as a warning beacon. From its heights, northern 
patrols can signal the approach of attackers (as happened 
some 32 winters ago during the "Bleak Winter" of the 
Year of the Shaking Serpent). Sarcrag is said to be 
haunted by the "Howler," a bansheelike creature who is 
never around when adventurers come seeking it, but 
always seems to attack the weak or unwary. Leucrotta are 
also a persistent problem in the area, and are the main 
reason Waterdeep and Goldenfields patrol the road north 
as far as the trail that heads east to Ironford. 

According to popular legend, bandits are said to have 
buried a fabulous treasure here at the foot of Sarcrag. 
Long ago, an armed force escorting the person and regalia 
of King Jaszur of Tethyr was ambushed north of Water- 
deep and destroyed by bandits. These bandits were sur 
rounded by Waterdeep's armies and slaughtered the next 
morning. Jaszur's body was found stripped of its golden 
and bejewelled crown, orb, scepter, and sword of state (a 
flametongue long sword). The soldiers of the Waterdeep 
guard swore that no man could have escaped through 
their lines, for mages cast detect magic spells all night to 
prevent magical escapes or attacks. Likewise, the aerial 
forces from Waterdeep searched from griffonback to no 
avail. Many hopefuls have continued the search for King 
Jaszur's treasure over the 90 intervening years, but none 
have found the lost riches. 







The Selpir 

This slow, quiet creek drains Ardeep Forest south of 
Zundbridge. Lizard men sometimes lurk in the mouth of 
this marshy source, but mermen also like to congregate in 
the area; after a number of memorable skirmishes in the 
past 20 years, most of the lizard men have been driven 
from the marsh. 

In the elder days of the Fallen Kingdom, many grand 
heroes of both elven and dwarven descent were laid to rest 
in the heart of the woods (now known in their much- 
reduced form as Ardeep Forest); over the centuries, the 
waters of this tiny creek have run endlessly to the sea, 
breaching such tombs. Overgrown and forgotten even by 
the demihumans, these tombs have yielded their riches to 
the relentless water. Patient searchers have a 20% chance 
of finding any such treasures in the streambed (one check 
per 24 continuous turns, or every four hours). Examples of 
found treasures tend to be smaller, more portable, and less 
weighty, with the larger items still trapped in now-sub 
merged tombs; items should be selective and enticing, such 
as a golden key, a magical ring, or even a dagger +1. 

Silverymoon 

Aside from Waterdeep to its south, Silverymoon is the 
largest city of the North as home to 26,000 humans, elves, 
half-elves, dwarves, halflings, and gnomes. All live in har 
mony under the wise rule of Alustriel, High Lady of Sil 
verymoon (CG hf W22). Alustriel uses her magic 
sparingly, but her natural kindness, grace, and acquired 
knack for shrewd, tactful diplomacy are often employed in 
keeping the demihumans and humans of the North largely 
at peace with one another. 

Some say Silverymoon's values and preservation of music 
and learning and the arts "echo that of lost Myth Dran- 
nor" -the fabled lost city of the Heartlands where elves, 
dwarves, and humans worked together to gather knowledge 
and achieve feats in magic and the arts unmatched before 
or since. Certainly the armies of Silverymoon persist in 
behaving as though no ore threat existed in their gallantry 
and enthusiasm, and have won several "impossible" battles 
due to their boldness, persistence, and the timely magical 
aid of the Mistmaster and one known only as Shadowcloak. 
The army is known as the "Knights in Silver," for their 
appearance in a battle as described by the bard Mintiper 
Moonsilver in a ballad. 

Silverymoon lies on the northern bank of the river 
Rauvin, its walls curving in a semicircle from the river's 
waters. It has extensive docks and an arching magical 


"moonbridge" of invisible forcefields across the Rauvin. 
The bridge is visible only in moonlight, and its central 
arch can be reduced to nothingness by magic, spilling 
attackers into the river, or allowing tall-masted ships to 
pass under the bridge. 

Silverymoon's Royal Badge is a thin crescent moon curv 
ing to the right, a single star sheltering under its uppermost 
horn. The moon and star are both of silver, and the whole 
is displayed on a royal blue field (or engraved on a stone to 
mark the boundaries of Silverymoon's claimed lands). 
Alustriel's palace is just within the eastern arc of the city 
walls, east of the vast open market, and is heavily guarded 
by mages of all ranks and warriors of skill, all personally 
loyal to her. There are major temples to Helm, Lathander, 
Milil, Oghma, and Selune here in the city; there is now an 
open exchange and constant traffic of information between 
the libraries of Silverymoon (especially the Vault of the 
Sages) and the Font of Knowledge (Oghma's library and 
temple) and New Olamn (the newly-established bards' col 
lege) in Waterdeep. 

The Stone Bridge 

This massive stone arch spans the River Dessarin without 
ceremony or accompanying settlement, rising lonely and 
weathered in the midst of rolling grasslands without a 
road or building to be seen as far as the eye can scan. It 
was built by dwarves 5,000 years ago to link the now- 
ruined Halls of the Hunting Axe with forgotten dwarven 
holds somewhere to the northwest. The Halls of the 
Hunting Axe was a dwarven city 30 miles southeast of the 
bridge, and its tumbled stone ruins can still be seen today 
(as can the butchery of the leucrotta that live there). The 
Bridge was built to span the broadest imaginable spring 
flood of the Dessarin and it rises in a great arc, without 
supporting pillars, some two miles in length, reaching a 
height of 400 feet above the waters of the river (at normal 
flow). The dwarves explain this awesome size of the 
bridge-and its continued survival, despite armies and 
mages clashing on its span over the centuries-to the fact 
that it was built in homage to the dwarven god Moradin 
the Soulforger, and is, in fact, a temple to him. It is true 
that some pious dwarves do make pilgrimages there, and 
that at least once in times of darkness for the dwarves, 
Moradin appeared on the bridge. Local legend even 
claims that Moradin, when banished to the Realms, stood 
guard on the Stone Bridge, barring the passage of a num 
ber of evil avatars who sought to reach the Celestial Stair 
way at Waterdeep and cause mischief along the way. 


22 


Stronghold of the Nine 

This cavern complex is a former dwarven hold within the 
interior of the High Forest along the Unicorn Run; the 
hold was rebuilt and occupied by the Nine, a now-retired 
adventuring band led by Laeral, but has been abandoned 
for nearly ten years. The minor stone blockhouse they had 
built over the entrance to the hold has since been shat 
tered and lies where it fell, a pile of rubble seeming of little 
consequence. While unoccupied, the Stronghold still has 
strange and powerful magical guardians that include nagas 
and golems. The Nine are known to have gained much 
treasure over their years of adventuring and much of it is 
undoubtedly still within the Stronghold. If any are fool 
hardy enough to enter unbidden into the former lair of 
nine veteran adventurers (all 14th level or better!), bear in 
mind that the last sane person to walk its halls was Khel- 
ben Arunsun, the archmage of Waterdeep who is now con 
sort to the once-mad Laeral, and he is not one to leave 
matters undone (expect the strongest magical barriers and 
not a few gates leading to various points, including Black- 
staff Tower). 

The Stump Bog 

The vast, sprawling bog is named for the numerous rotting 
stumps that rise from the still, green waters like blackened 
teeth; the dead trees were cut by an enterprising woodcut 
ter long ago. Frog-fishermen are the only humans who have 
entered this marsh in the years since. The Bog's algae-cov- 
ered, muddy waters drain into this marsh from the River 
Dessarin just south of Goldenfields and are home to many 
unpleasant creatures from common leeches and slugs to 
their larger and more exotic cousins. 

The waters of the Stump Bog may very well hide many 
small treasures. Countless corpses have been dumped in the 
Bog over the years of fighting in the North; many wounded 
victims met death in the Bog by getting lost, falling into 
the sticky morass, and drowning. Today, the Bog remains a 
favorite corpse disposal site for brigands, thieves, and those 
who find it more convenient for someone to disappear than 
to be found dead; more corpses of political enemies of 
Waterdhavian nobles can be found here than any other 
specific group of people. The Bog is rife with will o' wisps, 
mudmen, and various undead creatures after dark (though 
they do not shay from the Bog, and they haven't been dis 
covered due to the Bog's size and the fact that no one tends 
to go there after dark). 


Sundabar 

This fortified city, once home to thousands of dwarves, now 
houses a human population of 36,000. Extensively rebuilt 
by human allies of the dwarves, it now hades with Citadel 
Adbar and Silverymoon, and can muster an army 2,000 
shong to turn back any encroaching ore hordes. Its coffers 
were rich enough to hire the Flaming Fist mercenary com 
pany (see the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Campaign Set or 
FR 12 Gold and Glory) to swing through Dead Ore Pass and 
fall upon an ore horde from behind. Great was the slaugh 
ter that day, and equally great was the victory for men and 
dwarves. Sundabar is ruled by Helm Dwarf-hiend, Master 
of Sundabar (LG hm F14). The city is known and 
renowned for its woodworkers, who produce carved furni 
ture, musical instruments, and travel-chests of unusual 
beauty and durability. 

Triboar 

This small walled town is strategically located where the 
Long Road and the major trail to the east (sometimes 
called the Evermoor Way, although a commonly used name 
for the route has never been established). Its people num 
ber roughly 2,500 and elect a Lord Protector every seven 
years to lead the town's militia. An able human fighter, 
Faurael Blackhammer (NG hm F6) has held this post for 
the last 40 years. Triboar has two good smithies and a wag- 
onmaker of note. Several ranches in the lands to the west 
bring their horses here to sell to travelers. Gathered armies 
have often set forth from Triboar to meet ore hordes pour 
ing south out of the mountains. Triboar's name is thought 
to have come from a century-old traveler's tale of slaying 
three boars in one day here. 

Unicorn Run, The 

This cool, gently-flowing river rises in the mountains at the 
very heart of the High Forest, where few civilized beings 
have ever ventured, save the elves (who are, as usual, quite 
reticent on the topic). The Stronghold of the Nine lies 
partway up the Run, and unicorns inhabit the woods near 
its banks in the vicinity, and are known to travel up and 
down the river's length (hence its name). 

There is a legend that an elven king buried the treasure 
of all his court somewhere along the Unicorn Run, when 
fleeing from ores and hobgoblins who had pursued his peo 
ple from the far North, and never returned, having been 
slain by his ore pursuers. Another legend holds that the 
goddess Mielikki inhabits the Forest near the Run and is 
often seen wandering in the woods near it. Harpers say that 




this "legend" is the plain truth, and make occasional pil 
grimages to certain groves there. Certainly the Run's vale 
within the High Forest is one of the most beautiful regions 
of all Faerun. Bards who come here tend to sing of it for the 
rest of their lives. Halflings from Secomber regularly travel 
upriver to just within the Forest's edge to bury their dead; 
one famous halfling adventurer visited the Run over two 
decades ago and, on his deathbed, said "I have seen the 
unicorns, and can die content." 

Weathercote Wood 

This isolated wood is avoided by all save the bravest (or 
most foolish) adventurers; it has existed since before 
Netheril's fall and continues to do so, despite the 
advance of Anauroch. Rumored to be a place of fell mag 
ics, blue mists and glowing lights are often seen in its 
interior by Zhentarim caravans passing at night to and 
from Llorkh to the west. The elves say that gates to other 
worlds lie within the depths of Weathercote, and that 
mages of awesome power from those other worlds have 
settled within the Woods to guard the gates and prevent 
any others from using them. This news has yet to be 
tested, as neither spells nor psionics seem to penetrate to 
the Woods' interior and few enter the Weathercote 
Woods willingly and walk out again. 

Yartar 

This fortified town is the site of a bridge over the Surbrin, 
just north of its confluence with the Dessarin Yartar is 
home to 6,000 people, and is the site of a major temple to 
Tymora. Many barges are built here, for use up and down 
the river, and the folk of Yartar traditionally fish the "Three 
Rivers" (the Dessarin, Surbrin, and Laughingflow) near 
their docks for much of their table fare. Yartar is the scene 
of the vast Shieldmeet of the outcasts, bandits, homeless, 
and isolated landholders of the North, who gather here in 
the thousands. Yartar's ruler is known as the Waterbaron, 
and the post is currently held by Alahar Khaumfros (LN 
hm F4). He commands an official barge that can carry 200 
men, and a mounted army (the "Shields of Yartar") to fill it 
if need be. More often, the Shields police the town and 
defend it against wandering ores and trolls (and the numer 
ous cutthroats that call Yartar home). 


Zundbridge 

Named for its creator, the wizard Zund, this squat, massive 
stone bridge spans the River Dessarin, carrying the main 
caravan road south from Waterdeep to the lands of the 
Inner Sea far to the east, and to Baldur's Gate and the 
kingdoms of the South. Zundbridge has held firmly for over 
90 winters, even in the roaring spring floods of the 
Dessarin, and has not been in need of repairs. Waterdeep 
patrols the road as far as Zundbridge and maintains a guard- 
post there to stop adventurers who come in search of a 
stone golem said to have been used by Zund in the con 
struction of the bridge. According to legend, the golem was 
left at the bridge upon Zund's death, and can be taken by 
any who can divine or stumble upon the secrets of com 
manding it. 

Over the years, many such seekers have dug around the 
bridge on both banks, swum beneath it, and even tried to 
pry stones out of the bridge arches. Waterdeep's guard fear 
that if the bridge was left unguarded, it would soon be 
demolished by these zealous, would-be golem owners. The 
post is equipped with a flight of three griffon steeds to give 
Waterdeep advance warning of the approach of any impor 
tant visiting delegation or attacking force. 





Chxpten. Tu yo: 

HteTotzv of 

WaTeRoeep 

here shall come a time when our city and its deepwater buy shall grow in 
fame and fortune across many realms and many worlds. Folk shall know of 
Waterdeep, our City of Splendors, and sing its praises. I have seen it thus, 
and I endeavor to make it true." 


- Ahghairon, the first Open Lord of Waterdeep, circa 1032 DR 

To most inhabitants of the Realms, Waterdeep, the City of Splendors, "Crown of the 
North," has "always been there." It is a vast, colorful, tolerant, and eclectic crossroads 
city where peoples of all hospitable races meet, and the most wondrous and exciting 
works are seen. Waterdeep is seen as the cradle of, and foremost in, innovation in the 
creative endeavors of all cities in the Sword Coast and perhaps in all Faerun. Inhabi 
tants of cities in Amn, Calimshan, Cormyr, Sembia, Thay, and other inland realms dis 
pute this, but they contradict a known (if unadmitted) supremacy. The "creative 
endeavors" Waterdeep's merchants and nobles deal in include magic, art, music, and 
"craftwork": the combining of wood, metal, glass, and other materials into tools and 
items of ever-increasing beauty and precision. 



Age O: TriAd&cnooTs & PloweeRS 

F ew now know the true history of this great city, which had its beginnings over 
a thousand years ago, when the North was truly what Southerners still sneer- 
ingly call it: "the Savage North." In those days, most of the North was covered 
with vast, tall forests of ancient green, and inhabited by dwarves and goblinkind 
(in the most northern mountains and foothills) and elves (in widely scattered for 
est enclaves everywhere else). A few primitive human tribes lived along the Sword 
Coast, fishing and hunting and gathering in spring and fall to trade their furs for 
the merchants' jewelry and metal tools, or the occasionally-available weapon or 
two, with vessels sailing in from the South. In the spring, these vessels came pri 
marily to cut and take huge trees for shipbuilding, trees being no longer available 
in such large sizes farther south. 

In the fall, the vessels came in to cut timber for their own repairs, or to take on a 
cargo of wood if the misfortunes of trading had left their holds low or empty. Most of 
these trademoots were at a certain place where there was a great natural deepwater har 
bor, protected from the sea by a rocky spur of land, an arm of an isolated coastal crag, 
and a rocky island beyond it. 













kce I: The Rise of The 
MVAnX.on.bs 

O ver the years, the forest was cut back farther and farther 
from the shore, and tribes began to stay most of the year 
there, farming the cleared land. The wiser among them 
claimed and controlled some of the 'timber in order to trade 
for more weaponry and tools. Such claims angered many who 
found the squatters rich from frequent trade, and brought 
attacks from land and sea, the more warlike tribes slaughtering 
the more sedentary settlers. Noted among these tribes was that 
led by Nimoar, a chieftain who ordered his people to seize the 
farms, crude wooden docks, trading sheds, and storage barns 
built up around the bay. They settled there themselves, and 
erected a log palisade within an earthen embankment to pro 
tect the holdings. After several abortive pirate and tribal raids, 
Nimoar's people thrived in their new home, a fledgling town 
referred to as "the town of Water-deep." 

Farther north, ore tribes had outgrown their mountain 
strongholds. Attempts to expand underground met with fierce 
dwarven resistance (although many small gnomish colonies 
were overwhelmed and wiped out), and the ores spread out on 
the surface of the land, coming south and down out of the 
mountains, hurling their seemingly endless numbers against 
all who stood in their path. Here and there elven enclaves 
held out, but the push southward displaced many other north 
ern inhabitants, including the "everlasting ones" (trolls), who 
came down into the newly-cleared lands northeast of 
Nimoar's Hold, those lands now known as the Trollmoors. 
Nimoar died of old age during this time of increasing danger. 
Younger War Lords led the men of Waterdeep (for so the ship 
captains called the harbor) in battles against the trolls. There 
were many bloody struggles between men and trolls for a 
decade, until the magic of a Northern youth named Ahgha- 
iron turned the fortunes of war against the trolls, and the 
"everlasting ones" were destroyed or scattered. Ahghairon rose 
slowly in skill and power with the passage of years, until he 
became a great mage. He discovered a supply of potions of 
longevity (or learned the art of making such), for he lived on, 
still physically a man in his prime, for decade upon decade. 

Fearing further attacks, the men of Waterdeep raised a small 
keep on the slopes of Mount Waterdeep above their farms, 
where fire arrows from on high could defend against attacking 
trolls. Many outlying tribes who had come to the settlement for 
safety from the trolls stayed, and expanded the walls with new 
farms several times. War Lords ruled the Free City of Waterdeep, 
holding it independent and increasingly wealthy as years passed. 






Age II* The Lords' Rule 
Beg Iks 

I n his 112th winter, Ahghairon had a sharp disagreement 
with Raurlor, who was then Warlord of Waterdeep. Raur- 
lor wanted to use Waterdeep's acquired wealth and strength-of- 
arms to create a Northern empire, with Waterdeep its capital 
(and Raurlor its ruler), and gathered armies for the purpose. 
Ahghairon defied him before all the people, and Raurlor 
ordered the mage be chained. Ahghairon magically struck 
aside all who sought to lay hands on him. In a fury Raurlor 
struck at the mage with his own blade. Ahghairon rose into the 
air, just out of reach, and, as the infuriated Warlord slashed 
repeatedly at his rising feet, gestured. Raurlor's blade trans 
muted in his hand, from steel into a hissing serpent, which 
promptly bit him. The Warlord died of the venom before the 
shocked people assembled there. Ahghairon then gathered all 
the captains of Waterdeep's army, and all the seniors of the 
families of Waterdeep. While runners sought to bring them to 
the Castle, flames roared and crackled in the Warlord's empty 
chair-of-state at Ahghairon's bidding, so that no one sat there. 
Then at a gesture from the mage, the flames were gone as 
though they had never been, leaving the chair unmarked. 
Ahghairon seated himself, then, and proclaimed himself the 
first Lord of Waterdeep, saying that henceforth wisdom and 
not armed might would rule in the city. He would gather some 
few-in secret-to rule as Lords with him, masked and dis 
guised when they appeared to the people, but equal to him in 
authority and free of coercion by any, himself included. These 
Lords were to be drawn from all walks of life in the city, and 
could serve as long as they wished. 

The people heard, and agreed, and for the next two hun 
dred years, Ahghairon ruled Waterdeep with his unknown 
fellow Lords. Over the years, the masked Lords were a 
group of sometimes five, six, or seven, who appeared sel 
dom and said little. Some whispered that they were Ahgha 
iron's servants, or even magical automatons controlled by 
the Old Mage. Still, Ahghairon's justice was swift and fair, 
his laws good, his guardsmen polite and just as ready to 
help as apprehend, and the people approved. 

The years passed in peace and prosperity. The North was 
opened to humans. Roads built under Ahghairon's direction 
linked it together, from the ruins of "the Fallen Kingdom," 
which had been shattered by goblin races' attacks before men 
were numerous in the North, to the cities that would later 
become Amn. Waterdeep grew fivefold in size and wealth. 
From all over the Realms, folk began to come to the "Crown 


of the North," drawn by money-and among them came 
those who rob, cheat, and steal. When word of doings 
extending beyond simple theft to deception-in-workmanship 
and the appearance of many flyby-night impostor craftsmen 
reached Ahghairon's ears, he called together the senior mer 
chants, "the Noble Ones," and suggested that they form 
guilds as was done in the far South to police the unscrupulous 
of their own professions. Some resisted, or were furious, but 
most saw the advantages of such an arrangement, particularly 
if they were free to set matters up themselves, and not have 
less favorable arrangements forced upon them. The Guilds 
were created forthwith. Waterdeep continued to grow in size 
and prosperity. Twice more the city walls were expanded, and 
its merchants traveled the world over, bringing back exotic 
goods from afar, and spreading word of the city's wealth to 
remote lands. In the South, some listened with an eye to con 
quest or at least plunder, but swords were already out in those 
southern lands in a time of widespread strife, and no invaders 
came. 

Ahghairon's health eventually failed and he died. He 
was buried with ceremony in his tower, which was secured 
against thieves and fools. Those who learned the arts 
arcane from the Old Mage cast the most potent protective 
magics known upon his home and resting-place (which, 
many believe, remains inviolate today). 

Age III* The Bloody 
Relgw of The 
GuVLcNrmsTeRs 

T here was great turmoil in the City as the Guildmasters 
argued amongst themselves as to who should govern 
the City, and more than one merchant of power was found 
murdered. Groups of liveried bodyguards appeared openly 
armed on the streets, accompanying their masters, and two 
very troubled months passed as they bickered and parleyed 
(and occasionally dueled in the streets). At last, they 
decided that all Masters should rule Waterdeep together, in a 
council. The lesser nobles and many townsfolk protested, 
saying that the Lords ruled by right and by the peoples' con 
sent, but the Guildmasters said that the Lords had not been 
seen since Ahghairon's death, and that they must always 
have been golems or zombies controlled by Ahghairon him 
self, to conceal his lone rule. And indeed, the Lords were 
silent and unseen, and continued to be so. 




27 



In truth, the Lords were real men and women whose 
identities had been compromised, over the years, by certain 
curious Guildmasters who had ordered them slain by their 
own closemouthed, loyal servants following Ahghairon's 
death. The only Lords still surviving (those who had 
remained secret) were Baeron, a woodworker, and Shilarn, 
an apprentice wizard. These surviving Lords kept very 
quiet, and waited. The Guildmasters thought all the living 
Lords of the City had been eliminated, and took firm rule 
over Waterdeep. 

The Guildmasters ruled Waterdeep for only six years ere 
their self-interested squabbling led to bloodshed. Open 
quarrels and a few murders quickly erupted into a brief but 
vicious series of street fights and midnight attacks. This 
strife, oftimes termed "the Guildwars" by sages (although it 
was never as long-drawn-out or so formal as to be called a 
"war" when it was taking place), left all but two Guildmas 
ters dead, most of the City's best minds stilled, and much of 
the City's gold wasted or plundered with the Guilds in dis 
array. 

The surviving Guildmasters were Lhorar Gildeggh of the 
Shipwrights and Ehlemm Zoar of the Gemcutters. These 
two-ruthless manipulators both-were well-matched and 
could not overcome each other, though their private armies 
clashed often in the streets. At length, they sickened of 
bloodshed, after many from both families were dead in the 
gutters, and agreed to rule together. Two thrones were set 
up in Castle Waterdeep, and from then the two argued bit 
terly over this and that, and the City was a place of tension 
and fear. All matters, including the recognition of new 
Guildmasters to rule the "headless" guilds, had to come 
before the Two Lords Magister, as Lhorar and Ehlemm were 
called. Few matters were settled. 

Ace IV.* The ReTuRK) of 
The Lotibs 

O ne day to the Courts of the Lord Magister came two 
people masked and robed as the Lords of Waterdeep 
of old. Where they came from no one knew, but they 
appeared in the Castle's Great Hall where the Courts were, 
and commanded the Lords Magister to leave the city forth 
with. Laughing, the Lords Magister refused, whereupon the 
shorter of the masked intruders (the lady Shilarn, appren 
tice to Ahghairon and his undeclared heir as first Lord of 
the City) blasted them with lightning and fire, and their 
very thrones were shattered and toppled. 


The taller of the two intruders (Baeron) then called for 
the heads of the noble houses to come to them, or leave 
the city forthwith and forever, if they cared not to come by 
nightfall. All in the Courts heard, and the news was cried 
in the streets. 

The surviving nobles came, reluctantly and with body 
guards, expecting such a summons to be a trap. Baeron 
spoke to them and the crowd of curious townsfolk that had 
also come, saying, "this must not happen again." If Water- 
deep was to be safe once more, he told them, all must sup 
port what he and his fellow Lord now planned, as they had 
supported Ahghairon in the past. The two would choose 
others to be Lords as before, he said, and they would rule in 
secret, as before -save for himself. He removed his mask, 
and said, "I am Baeron. I would be Lord as Ahghairon was 
before. I would be safe in this my city again." And the folk 
of Waterdeep there agreed. Shilarn, still masked, com 
manded that the houses of the Two Lords Magister be Out 
cast. There was protest, and she raised her hands that had 
blasted the thrones, and it was still again. And the house of 
Gildeggh and of Zoar were outcast. 

Peace returned to the city, and Waterdhavians to their 
labors. To inhibit discovery of who the Lords were, Baeron 
selected certain men of character whom he knew well, and 
appointed them Magisters ("Black Robes," they were soon 
called, from their robes of office) under the Lords, to judge 
and apply the laws of Waterdeep in daily affairs. These 
Magisters he paid well, to raise them from temptation, and 
gave lodgings to those who feared for safety to dwell among 
the people. To so serve, he told the city, was a burden, not 
a proud misuse of authority, and if any wished to no longer 
serve, or were found wanting, they were not to be vilified, 
but accorded respect. And over the Magisters the Lords sat 
in their Court, to correct and overrule the judgments of the 
Magisters. Baeron told the people that none were to decry 
or belittle any judgments of Magisters that the Lord saw fit 
to alter or cast aside. If any thought ill of the offices or 
those who held them they could turn back to the rule of 
sword and whim, and perish as had those before them. 
Before the Lord's Court Baeron encouraged people to speak 
freely for the length of a short candle's burning, without 
fear of chastisement or reproach from the Lords for any 
thing said, as long as they spoke openly and answered ques 
tions or opposing views put to them by any there. Thus, he 
held, just grievances of folk would be heard, no matter how 
small the matter or lowly the speaker. 

And so it was. Slow to take hold, until people knew it 
for careful justice, but enduring beyond Baeron's time, and 


28 



beyond Shilarn's time, and beyond the time of their daugh 
ter Lhestyn "The Masked Lady," who wed Zelphar Arunsun 
of Neverwinter, and was mother to Khelben "Blackstaff 
Arunsun, a Lord of Waterdeep today, who knows the 
secrets of long years as Ahghairon did. And as the years 
have passed, Waterdeep has grown in size and variety, flour 
ishing with good trade under the tolerance and protection 
of strong defenders and good government. The years passed 
not without troubles, varying from the Godswar (when 
Waterdeep played host to gods dying and ascending) to 
such occurrences as a green dragon assailing the Field of 
Triumph (part of a plot by the Knights of the Shield to 
overthrow the Lords' Rule), but the city and her peoples 
survived and prevailed against all strife. The Lords' 
Alliance provides continued safety for all the settlements 
of the northern Sword Coast and those inland, with Water- 
deep as the heart of the alliance. Though it can be 
matched in size or commerce, there is no city the Realms 
over that compares to the sheer variety of life and experi 
ences found in fair Waterdeep, Crown of the North. 

A TlmeUwe of 
WaTe^eep 's H)$Torz^ 

U sing the Northreckoning calendar system (the NR 
date), Waterdeep uses Ahghairon's rise to the ruler- 
ship of Waterdeep as the start of its calendar (not the 
actual establishment of of the settlements around Water- 
deep's harbor). The Dalereckoning calendar system dates 
from the year humans were permitted to settle the Dale- 
lands by the Elven Court; this system is used to link this 
with the timeline in the FORGOTTEN REALMS Cam 
paign Set (Grand Tour of the Realms) and other products. 

NR -2120/ DR -1088: Annual trade begins at the future 
site of Waterdeep, between the ships from the South 
and Northern human tribes. 

NR -980/ DR 52: Permanent farms established in the area 
by locally settling tribes. 

NR -864/ DR 168: Elalaster's Elold, the wizards' tower and 
fortified ramparts, is built to the north and west of the 
burgeoning farms. 

NR -725/ DR 307: The Seven, Halaster's apprentices, 
abandon the surface Hold and enter the dark ways of 
Undermountain. The tower and surface holdings fall 
into decay and ruin. All settlers avoid this walled 
"cursed" enclosure. 


NR -560/ DR 472: Ulbaerag Bloodhand and his people 
conquer the settled tribes, uniting the tribes as one. Irri 
gation of the farms starts and extensive building begins 
around the harbor area. 

NR -150/ DR 882: Nimoar the Reaver vanquishes the 
Bloodhand tribes, and he seizes the docks and harbor 
buildings. Nimoar's Hold rises at the city's current north 
end fortified by a log palisade. The city walls expand 
around the Hold and the city's perimeter. 

NR -145/ DR 887: Pirate raids in force from the South; all 
attacks on the fledgling city fail. 

NR -143/ DR 889: The Bull Elk tribe of the Dessarin sets 
Nimoar's Hold afire, but Nimoar's forces defeat them 
and drive them off. The Hold is rebuilt by year's end. 

NR -112/ DR 920: Ahghairon is born on Midsummer's 
Night, and many legends report Mystra's symbol glowing 
brightly among the stars of the North. 

NR -100/ DR 932: FIRST TROLL WAR. After a number 
of attacks on the city, Nimoar's forces clear the Ever- 
moors of trolls, burning miles of land bare while slaying 
the everlasting ones. 

NR -96/ DR 936: Heavy ore raids on the city and outlying 
farms last the full year. Nimoar dies of old age, and 
Gharl replaces him as War Lord of the tribe. 

NR -92/DR 940: SECOND TROLL WAR. This year sees 
the start of the continual troll raids and strife that last 
more than a decade; during this time, the name of 
Waterdeep comes into common usage. Six War Lords of 
Waterdeep die in battle against the trolls. Despite the 
problems, Waterdeep grows in population, as tribes 
gather within her walls for safety. 

NR -80/ DR 952: Ahghairon rises and is recognized as the 
premier mage of the Savage North. He becomes the offi 
cial adviser for the War Lord of Waterdeep. This year 
also marks the end of the Second Trollwar, the trolls 
remaining nearly extinct around Waterdeep for 100 
years. 

NR -69/ DR 963: The construction of Castle Waterdeep 
begins around the site of Nimoar's Hold on the eastern 
spur of Mount Waterdeep, just north of the city walls. 

NR -58/ DR 974: Castle Waterdeep is completed at High 
Harvestide. The city walls expand (now abutting the 
wall around Halaster's Hold for defense) and the worn 
log palisades become new, high stone walls. Lauroun 
becomes the first female War Lord of the city. 

NR -34/ DR 998: War Lord Lauroun establishes a naval 
guard to protect the city and its trading partners. Con 
struction begins on fortifying the harbor and Deepwatch 





29 


Isle. A temple and monastery to Lathander breaks 
ground far to the north of the city (at the present site of 
the Spires of the Morning). 

NR -25/ DR 1007: The city walls expand, absorbing the 
ruins of Halaster's Hold (the walls run along the lines of 
what are now the northern borders of Dock and South 
ern Wards). Ahghairon builds his tower out beyond the 
city walls, and he also places magical barriers around the 
ruins of Halaster's tower, preventing many dangers from 
escaping into the city. 

NR -22/ DR 1010: Laborers finish the extensive harbor for 
tifications at Midsummer, and the Free City of Water- 
deep is officially established, with Lauroun as its 
"Warlord" (ruler). 

NR -6/ DR 1026: Warlord Lauroun dies in a series of mas 
sive raids by the Black Claw ore tribes on the city; 
Ahghairon creates the magical axe Azuredge. The ore 
horde meets its final defeat at Stump Bog. Raurlor, 
leader of the city's army, becomes the Warlord. 

NR -2/ DR 1030: Raurlor increases the size of Waterdeep's 
standing army and navy to a size unseen since the Fallen 
Kingdom. His rulership turns Waterdeep into a garrison 
and military encampment, "to protect Waterdeep from 
her many, jealous enemies." 

NR 0/ DR 1032: Raurlor announces his plans to establish 
the Empire of the North. Ahghairon defies him and 
causes Raurlor's death. The wizard takes the Warlord's 
seat, declaring himself the first Lord of Waterdeep. He 
restructures Raurlor's armies and navies into the city 
guard (army and navy) and the watch (city police), 
bringing order to Waterdeep. 

NR 3/ DR 1035: The city grows under Ahghairon's and the 
Lords' rule, the walls expanding again (to the current 
areas of Waterdeep Way and River Street) to handle the 
increased population. The System of Wards comes into 
being, initially creating Castle Ward, Trades Ward, Tem 
ple (later Southern) Ward, and Dock Ward. 

NR 5/ DR 1037: Otherplanar creatures spill out of Under 
mountain into the city but are turned back by Ahghairon 
and Kherris, a masked Lord wielding Azuredge. Ahghairon 
refortifies the magical and physical defenses around the 
ruins. 

NR 32/ DR 1064: The city walls swell (running along the 
current locations of Selduth Street and the Coffin- 
march) to handle increasing numbers of people. A low 
wall abutting the city walls surrounds the eastern ceme 
tery of the city. The city's population surpasses 50,000 
this year. 


NR 69/ DR 1101: The Spires of the Morning, the abbey 
and temple to Lathander, becomes part of the city as the 
walls expand to accommodate more settlers. (The 
perimeter approximates the current paths of Trader's 
Way and Andamaar's Street.) The plateau north of the 
city is all irrigated farmland. 

NR 118/ DR 1150: Waterdeep is hit hard by the plague 
throughout the Sword Coast, the situation made worse 
by attacks by trolls and ore tribes. Khelben Arunsun the 
Elder arrives and settles in Waterdeep, building Arunsun 
Tower (later known as Blackstaff Tower). 

NR 147/ DR 1179: As a precursor to the Harpstar Wars, a 
group of maulagrym attack Arunsun Tower. They are 
defeated and banished from Faerun by Khelben, Elmin- 
ster, and a number of mages of Waterdeep (including 
Hamiklar Wands, the father of Maskar). 

NR 193/ DR 1235: Waterdeep is beseiged for nine months 
by the largest ore horde in recorded history. The city is 
spared when Ahghairon and his generals introduce grif 
fons as flying steeds for the army, allowing them past the 
ores to gain food and aid outside the walls. 

NR 204/ DR 1246: Kerrigan the wizard, a hidden Lord of 
Waterdeep, attempts to usurp Ahghairon's position 
and set himself up as sole ruler of Waterdeep by killing 
the other Lords and Ahghairon. After the deaths of 
three Lords, Ahghairon slays Kerrigan in Southern 
Ward (at the site of the future Adventurers' Quarter). 

NR 216/ DR 1248: Known as the Year of Bounty in Water+ 
deep, a record harvest and mercantile explosion causes a 
dramatic increase in population. Due to the expanded 
trade, the merchants form guilds, and a recognized mer 
chant gentry emerges in the city. 

NR 218/ DR 1250: Noble villas begin dotting the plateau 
north of the city. Ahghairon and other mages of Water- 
deep alter the ancient cemetery of the city, eliminating 
individual graves and creating the tombs of the City of 
the Dead. Two years later, after growing skirmishes with 
undead hordes, the Lords establish walls around the City 
of the Dead and her still-current curfews. 

NR 223/ DR 1255: Growth in trade and population forces 
the walls to move northward (to the current paths of 
Sulmoor and Julthoon Streets). The Shadow Thieves 
begin minor operations in Waterdeep. 

NR 224/ DR 1256: Ahghairon dies and the Guildmasters 
begin seizing power in the city. Khelben the Elder disap 
pears from Waterdeep, though his tower remains occu 
pied by his apprentices. The Council of Guildmasters 
grows to govern the city. 



NR 230/ DR 1262: MISRULE OF LORDS-MAGISTER. 
All but two Guildmasters slain in the "Guildwars"; Lho- 
rar Gildeggh and Ehlemm Zoar proclaim themselves the 
Two Lords Magister. The Shadow Thieves establish 
their base of operations (the Citadel of the Bloody 
Hand) inside Mount Waterdeep. 

NR 241/ DR 1273: The Lords' Rule revives with Baeron 
and Shilarn, two long-hidden Lords of Waterdeep who 
slay the Lords Magister. Baeron becomes the Open Lord 
of Waterdeep. The houses of Zoar and Gildeggh are 
Outcast (exiled from the city). The black-robed Magis- 
ters are appointed to keep justice and, by the month of 
Uktar, the Shadow Thieves' ventures are deterred and 
they, as a group, are outlawed. Waterdeep's population 
rises, reaching 100,000 by year's end. 

NR 244/ DR 1276: Shilarn, a Lord and Baeron's wife, gives 
birth to a daughter, Lhestyn. The Lords allow Water- 
deep's perimeter to expand out to the borders they hold 
to the current day. North and Sea Wards are added and 
ward boundaries are adjusted and established as they 
remain today. The Lords increase their numbers beyond 
Ahghairon's self-imposed limits, and establish sixteen 
Lords of Waterdeep. 

NR 266/ DR 1298: Lhestyn, as "The Masked Lady," infil 
trates the Shadow Thieves Guild and exposes it. Within 
the span of a bloody week, the Shadow Thieves are 
either dead or fled from the city due to the watch and 
the Lords' agents (like Lhestyn). 

NR 268/ DR 1300: Lhestyn weds Zelphar Arunsun, a pow 
erful mage from Neverwinter (and acknowledged 
youngest son of Khelben the Elder). 

NR 270/ DR 1302: Khelben Arunsun, later to become the 
archmage "Blackstaff," is born to Lhestyn and Zelphar. 
Durnan and Mirt the Merciless return from Under 
mountain and retire as rich men. 

NR DR 1306: Durnan establishes the Yawning Portal 
over the ruins of Halaster's Hold, controlling the access 
to the dungeons beneath the city. 

NR 276/ DR 1308: Baeron dies of fever, and Shilarn, his 
wife, immolates herself on his funeral pyre. Their daugh 
ter Lhestyn becomes the open Lord of Waterdeep; 
palace construction begins and the Palace of Waterdeep 
is complete by early winter. 

NR 279/ DR 1311: Zelphar dies at the hands of evil sor 
cery, though the source remains undetermined to this 
day. Lhestyn secretly names Piergeiron, a paladin and 
officer of the city guard, a Lord and her eventual succes 
sor as Open Lord of the city. 


NR 280/ DR 1312: Durnan founds the Red Sashes as his 
own personal agents, creating a precaution against such 
blatant disregards for the watch as grow common in 
Dock Ward (such as the death of Zelphar). 

NR 282 / DR 1314: Piergeiron becomes the Open Lord of 
Waterdeep upon the death of Lhestyn. 

NR 290/ DR 1322: Khelben, son of Zelphar and Lhestyn, 
claims the long-vacant Arunsun Tower as his own, 
renaming it after his new title of "the Blackstaff." 

NR 313/ DR 1345: Later known as "the Night of Temple- 
fall," fires consume the Spires of the Morning (the city's 
oldest temple) and the House of Heroes in early winter. 
Both temples are rebuilt within the next year. 

NR 325/ DR 1357: Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun shatters 
the Crown of Horns, freeing Laeral Silverhand from 
Myrkul's evil influence. He returned to Waterdeep with 
her to help her heal; within three years, they are insepa 
rable and Laeral is often referred to as Lady Arunsun. 

NR 326/ DR 1358: GODSWAR. The Time of Troubles 
sees the fallen god Myrkul in Waterdeep with his forces, 
and the resulting Wardfires from Myrkul's attacking 
legions spread throughout Dock, Castle, and Southern 
Wards. Myrkul is destroyed (along with a number of 
Market buildings) and Cyric and Midnight ascend to 
godhood from Mount Waterdeep. Ao's voice is heard by 
many in Waterdeep and his temple is established on the 
ruins in the Market. 

NR 329/ DR 1361: Rumors of the Harper Assassin travel 
throughout the city. Pilgrims and soldiers of the church 
of Helm announce their discovery of a rich land to the 
west, beyond the Moonshaes and Evermeet. 

NR 332 / DR 1364: Droughts, increased monster activity, 
and political unrest plague Waterdeep for months lead 
ing up to Midsummer. A green dragon and an appar 
ently mad bard disrupt the Shieldmeet ceremonies at 
the Field of Triumph, nearly upsetting the Lords' Rule. 

NR 333/ DR 1365: Limited trade is established between 
Waterdeep and the southern and western lands of 
Zakhara and Maztica; the high-risk ventures (as many as 
60% of the ships are lost at sea in transit) are jointly 
managed by the priesthood of Helm and various noble 
families. Piergeiron attends the coronation of Queen 
Alicia of the Moonshaes, and rumors spread furiously of 
his being seriously smitten by her (though none dare 
suggest such impropriety to the Open Lord's face). 

NR 335/ DR 1367: The year just ending. See the section 
below for current events. 

NR 336/ DR 1368: The Year of the Banner 


31 



An)<3 Nocju, the Necus... 

The following material intertwines greater and smaller 
events that occur within Waterdeep during the year of 335 
NR (1367 DR), nine years after the Time of Troubles. The 
events herein summarize or add to the many stories of the 
NPCs within the City of Splendors boxed set. 

Hammer 

• Furious northern storms hammer the City of Splendors, 
coating the streets and buildings with thick ice and 
making any travel dangerous for two tendays (assuming 
the windows and doors weren't sealed and frozen shut 
by the ice and sleet, trapping people indoors). With 
the bitter temperatures and sheer slipperiness of the 
streets, the Market becomes more skating rink than 
commercial center. 

. Many Waterdhavians of Southern Ward and Trades 
Ward are awakened for four consecutive nights at the 
end of the month by loud explosions heard from the 
direction of the Rat Hills, While nothing seems imme 
diately amiss (as per the guard and the Dungsweepers' 
Guild), some adventurers and members of the Watch 
ful Order of Magists & Protectors are dispatched to 
investigate. 

Alturiak 

• Nine hours after their entrance, the assigned party that 
has ventured into the Rat Hills dies mysteriously 
within the wasteland. A flurry of spell use and the 
sound of battle erupts quite suddenly. By the time a 
guard contingent tracks them down, all the adventur 
ers and mages lie dead; three of the bodies are missing, 
but little else can be discerned (of their deaths or their 
attackers) as the garbage heaps catch fire and soon rage 
out of control! Soon, much of the interior of the Rat 
Hills is aflame. The fires burn powerfully for two days, 
but smaller fires smolder for a full tenday, the efforts of 
the Watchful Order to quench the entire inferno for 
naught. Waterdeep is engulfed in thick, choking clouds 
of smoke and soot from the Rat Hills Conflagration. 
The guard is kept busy, however, as the fires drive out 
many inhabitants of the area, including a small tribe of 
lizard men, a pack of leucrotta, a clutch of sea zombies, 
and even a previously unknown form of gulguthra (see 
the gulguthydra MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r) 
entry). After the fires burn themselves out, the Rat 
Hills are reduced in size by more than 50%. 


• A small colony of aquatic elves is wiped out down in the 
south by a huge horde of undersea predators driven into a 
feeding frenzy by something; the twelve survivors (nine 
females, three males; two of each are children) settle 
with the mermen within Waterdeep's harbor and petition 
to join the guard as part of the contingent below. One of 
the females recalls seeing sharks working alongside sea- 
wolves and even an ixitxachitl or two! 

• Many folk in the city succumb to a mild plague caused by 
the smoke and debris carried over the city by what is now 
called the Rat Hills Conflagration. While no one dies of 
the plague, many in the sea trade get a late start at fixing 
up their ships in preparation for Fleetswake and the ship 
ping season next month. 

Ches 

• Lady Hyara Talmost's celebratory gala the first night of 
the Fleetswake festivities is a smashing social success. 
The only disturbing news involves the disappearance of 
Jynnia Gundwynd's handsome but mysterious escort; she 
claims they were alone and asleep in an upstairs room, 
"resting to get our second wind for the party," but when 
she woke up, he was gone. The only evidence left behind 
is his coat, stained a bright red on the hem and tails. 

• Fleetswake and the Fair Seas Festival. The tenday-long fes 
tival ends with its usual pomp and pageantry, and the 
donations to Umberlee's Cache are extraordinarily gener 
ous (roughly 260,000 gold pieces). The high mermaid 
shaman Thur Aquarvol demanded the money be smelted 
down and sculpted into an undersea statue for Umberlee. 
The Lords refused this change, but added a commission 
for a marble statue next year. 

Tarsakh 

• Waukeentide. On Goldenight, whether by accident or by 
Halaster's design, four aurumvorax exit Undermountain 
into the Old Xoblob Shop and rampage into the Purple 
Palace festhall next door. By the time the animals are 
disabled, three patrons and four festhall girls (wearing 
naught but gold dust) are dead due to the animals' 
attack. The aurumvorax hides are each distributed to the 
victims' families (and the festhall) as little recompense. 
The owner of the Old Xoblob Shop is at a loss as to how 
the creatures weren't affected by his usual magical safe 
guards, suggesting foul play to the watch. 


. A one-eyed sailor starts a brawl in a Dock Ward tavern, 
breaks the arms of four men, and proceeds to swing one 
man by his ankles, using him as a club. When the 
watch arrives, the sailor flees with two watch officers 
in pursuit. The two officers are found three streets 
down, both badly mauled and one with an arm missing. 
A trail of blood leads down to Smugglers' Dock, but 
the trail disappears and the miscreant escapes. The 
watch is offering a 50-gold-piece reward to anyone who 
catches this maniac. 

• Ten non-native Cyricists are arrested at the Plinth for 
disturbing the open religious services. The group of 
twelve have cast multiple darkness spells, surrounding the 
Plinth with utter blackness at highsun. Normally, this 
breach of ethics is overlooked and the worshipers are 
ushered out the River Gate; however, their services are 
interrupted by a number of devout Tyr-worshipers. The 
resulting battle of spells and steel ends with the death of 
two Cyricists and four Tyrites, as well as random damage 
to surrounding structures including the Plinth. Four 
Tyrites are arrested but are released when their fines are 
paid. No one has seen the Cyricists since the incident, 
though they did receive judgment from the Lord's Court; 
rumor has it they are now in Undermountain. 

Mirtul 

• Lady Cera Phaulkon is missing after her caravan is 
ambushed just south of Luskan. Nearly everyone is 
slaughtered and, worst of all, the heads are cleanly sev 
ered from all the dead including Lady Phaulkon. Her 
youngest daughter, Jeryth, was traveling with her and is 
currently missing; scraps of her dress and a comb are 
found at the caravan site, indicating there was some 
struggle. Little has been found about this kidnaping and 
senseless murder, made more so by the lack of thieving 
involved-Lady Phaulkon's body still wore her diamond 
rings and emerald brooch. 

• Close to dawn on the 22nd of the month, the Cliffwatch 
Inn in North Ward is engulfed in multiple magical explo 
sions that send gouts of flame far into the air overhead. 
Many claim to hear roaring and howling during the fires. 
When the flames die down, nothing is left of the inn, and 
its owner is missing. The area is surrounded by a high 
wooden wall and kept under constant guard surveillance 
(though whether they keep the curious outside the wall 
or keep something more malevolent inside the wall is 
unknown). 


Kythorn 

• Trolltide. Children about the city have small magical trin 
kets that let them growl like trolls. Some of them, how 
ever, actually turn children into trolls and a number of 
unfortunate deaths result from the transformations. Of 
the children that are saved and reverted to normal, none 
are charged with criminal wrongdoing, being not of their 
right minds, but the Lords are reportedly looking into 
this matter personally (and the Watchful Order is right 
fully worried at this). For more on this, see "Trolltidings" in 
Chapter 6 of the Adventurer's Guide to the City. 

• Ships with the markings of Luskanite pirates sink two 
Waterdhavian rakers in waters north of the City of 
Splendors, but the High Captains desperately claim no 
responsibility for the damages. They confess that a num 
ber of their own ships have been stolen by unknown par 
ties of late and are busy harrassing shipping up and down 
the Sword Coast and heaping all the blame on Luskan. 
Luskan actually cooperates and allies with Waterdeep in 
hunting down these pirates. 

• A dead drow female is found in a midden in Sea Ward, 
just off the Street of the Singing Dolphin. Her cause of 
death appears to be strangulation, but various burns 
cover her black leather armor. A broken bottle is by her 
side, and some of its liquid has melted a hole in the stone 
pavement beneath it. In her right hand, the woman has a 
pendant in her death grip: A silver pendant mockingly 
similar to the symbol of Sune, goddess of beauty, with the 
head of an illithid and added tentacles wrapping around 
its head like hair. 

Flamerule 

• Founders' Day. As some twisted form of celebrating the 
Lords' rule and the founding of Waterdeep, a disguised 
Zhentarim priest of Cyric raises the remains of the traitor 
Lord Kerrigan from the dead, setting a wraith in Lord's 
garb loose within the city. Kerrigan's wraith was pursued 
throughout the city, and it is brought low by Lord Pierge- 
iron, Vhonna Deepdell, and High Priestess Ghentilara in 
Kerrigan's Court once again. The Zhentarim wizard, 
though pursued by four watch-wizards, escapes into the 
City of the Dead, eluding his captors among the dimen 
sional burial grounds until he makes good his escape from 
Waterdeep entirely. 


• Midsummer's Night sees one of the largest crowds ever 
in Waterdeep, with every possible dock slip occupied 
and twice the normal number of caravans crowding 
the streets of Southern Ward (as well as the plains just 
outside the walls). The crowd at the Three Pearls 
Nightclub is spared much of the pickpocketing com 
mon to the rest of the city, but a performance by the 
half-elven Rheros Bladesong, the Fighting Bard from 
the Shaar, turns deadly. During his sword-dance (jug 
gling long swords while dancing), one of his swords 
breaks away from his control and flies "as if possessed 
of evil intelligence" into the chest of a Sembian carpet 
merchant. Under arrest for the murder, Rheros swears 
none of his swords are magical (a detect magic test is 
made just before each performance), that he has no 
reason to kill the merchant, and that someone is fram 
ing him. The only possible connection involves a 
troupe of traveling illusionists known as Maari 
Sithkess and her Familiars, all of whom are of Sem 
bian birth, though none have any connection with the 
merchant. 

• The Kolat Towers (AQ8) are sealed on all sides by a 
glowing, translucent field of magical energy (an arcing 
wall of force running from the top of the towers to the top 
of the surrounding property walls) for two tendays imme 
diately after Midsummer's Night. Whenever the wizards 
are seen during this time (and two months after), Duh- 
lark Kolat is distracted and quite surly, while the elderly 
Alcedor has his arm in a sling. It is soon found out that 
someone apparently entered the towers, overpowered 
Alcedor, and stole a number of scrolls and irreplaceable 
items, despite all the safeguards. 

Eleasias 

• With the arrival of the Moonshae ambassador, the city is 
abuzz over next year's visit of Fligh Queen Alicia. In 
preparation, an embassy is established close to the Palace 
and Ahghairon's Tower. Noble galas are already in the 
planning stages for her arrival in Ches. 

• Waterdeep's navy, with some help from a late-arriving 
Luskar ship, manages to capture the last of the Sword 
Coast pirates' ships with much of the crew intact. The 
pirates are of all nationalities of the Sword Coast; their 
captains (and the controlling intelligence known as the 
Black Admiral) are all missing from the capture. As in 
previous captures, the captains and some other officers 
leap overboard and disappear into the ocean rather than 
allow themselves to be captured. 


Eleint 

• An uncontrollable magical fire ravages the northern sec 
tion of Sea Ward near the Heroes' Garden, destroying a 
number of businesses and villas. Investigations later show 
the cause as a young mage's apprentice attempting a fire- 
based spell beyond his control; he set the central row- 
house of a block afire, consuming himself in the process. 
Sadly, a number of guardsmens' homes are also consumed 
by the fire, the Watchful Order's fire-fighters proving 
ineffective against the flames (though they did limit the 
damage). 

• Many new creatures are being encountered in the sew 
ers by the Plumbers' Guild, and they are growing 
understandably nervous. The newest is quickly being 
called a sewerm, with its anaesthetic bite and leechlike 
abilities. The Guild wants someone to go clean out the 
sewers of such infestations, before any Guild members 
go missing. 

• Many rumors abound through the Dock Ward about the 
unification and alliance of a number of pirate crews in 
the past few weeks. Many say the former crews of the 
Black Admiral are pulling together to attack soon and 
take over Mintarn just before winter sets in. Others whis 
per that the direchon of the pirates comes from below 
("from some new power in Skullport"). 

Marpenoth 

• At Higharvestide, the new Knights of the Sword Coast 
stand collected and exit the city as caravan escorts for 
Lord Phaulkon's last trade caravan of the season. Its final 
destination is Cormyr and, due to the coming harsh win 
ter, the Knights and the return caravan aren't expected 
until spring. 

• Gods' Day. The morning after the Gods' Day festivities, 
four watch officers and two guard officers are discovered 
stuffed into the garbage carts of the Dungsweepers' 
Guild, all decapitated. Curiously, the bodies are stone 
cold and cannot be identified without the heads, but 
none of the watch or guild posts report any missing 
patrolers. However, a laundry where some watch and 
guard members send their uniforms was ransacked the 
night before and a number of uniforms are missing. All 
watch and guard civilars and armars are keeping sharp 
eyes out for any strangers in their garb in hopes of catch 
ing the killers. 



. Toward the end of the month, the legendary axe 
Azuredge magically returns to Waterdeep. Reappearing 
apparently in answer to a bard's ballad, Azuredge embeds 
itself into the main pillar of the Safehaven Inn's tap- 
room. Many capable warriors try their hands at removing 
the axe, but none succeeds until some unknown adven 
turers claim it. The magic of Azuredge proclaims them 
the Company of the Blue Axe, causing much excitement 
within the Adventurers' Quarter. 

Uktar 

• Auril's Blesstide. The celebrations of the first frost on the 
10th of the month are marred by the discovery of three 
bizarre ice sculptures on the Seas' Edge Beach. The three 
nude male figures appear frozen in fear and they are 
carved from solid ice. No one within the city can posi 
tively identify the bodies, though a few folk recall seeing 
some braggarts in the Fiery Flagon the night before that 
looked like these men. Speak with dead magics prove use 
less and no way has been found to restore the men to 
mobility. 

. Each full moon since fire ravaged Sea Ward in Eleint, a 
sad, lonely phantom appears to remind folk that life and 
love don't always end at death. At the former second 
story level of a villa (which no longer exists), a woman 
stands by her window, her form and the shape of the win 
dow illuminated by the lantern that rests on the sill. 
Curiously enough, this apparation cannot be seen from 
the side or behind it, on Stormstar's Ride, but only when 
facing it on Phastal Street. 

• Khelben Arunsun has an uncharacteristic embarrass 
ment on his hands. Some prankster has manipulated 
the Walking Statue of Waterdeep, walking it from its 
customary spot at the top of the Cliffride to Blackstaff 
Tower, and altering its stoic face and pose to that of a 
weeping child curled up in Khelben's front courtyard. 
While the Statue was swiftly moved back into its usual 
location and form, Khelben has yet to track down and 
deal with the prankster; while many see this solely as 
humorous, others recognize the danger of some 
unknown factor being able to control one of Water- 
deep's most powerful defenses. 


Nightal 

• One of the early snows falls on the city, but curiously all 
the snowflakes are deep green in hue. The following 
morning, the green snow has evaporated, but the many 
trees and plants about the city experience large growth 
spurts and, in some cases, crack surrounding pavement. 
Though it is the start of winter, all fruit-bearing trees 
magically produce new fresh fruit overnight for two 
nights in a row, causing a frenzy at the Market for fresh 
fruit this late in the season. No other results were noted 
from the green snows, but some speculate that next year 
will be a bountiful one due to this sign. 

• At the Lord's Court on the 15th of the month, one of 
the masked Lords stands before the people (four noble 
patriarchs and five guild masters are on hand in the 
court's audience) and takes off his helm, revealing him 
self to be Khelben Arunsun! Everyone, including 
Piergeiron, is shocked, and in the surprised silence, 
Khelben says, "My fellow citizens of Waterdeep, I stand 
before you, revealed as one of the Lords of our fair city. 
For years, many have speculated that I sat among this 
august assemblage, and I admit it freely now ... as I 
retire my position as Lord. I also hereby call my succes 
sor, who shall take my place among the rulers of the 
city. Enter, Lord." With that, the doors to the Court 
open, and a masked, robed Lord strides silently in, 
bows to Piergeiron and the other two Lords in council, 
and finally takes a seat next to Khelben. Within days, 
the news spreads throughout the city, shocking many; 
the taverns buzz of no other news, and many speculate 
whether he actually has resigned from the Lords, or 
whether he's just acting out another convoluted 
scheme to draw out some enemy (since his revelation 
was not the greatest of his secrets . . . ). 

For more information on goings-on outside Waterdeep dur 
ing this year, see "News of the Realms" in Running the 
Realms, Book 2 of the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Cam 
paign Set. 



35 




CfrxpTen Tfrn.ee: 

The OTv WaRds 


es, f/ie City of Splendors is vast, but have I ever gotten lost? What a silly ques 
tion, my good fellow. The Lords rely on me far too much for me to have time 
to get lost. As it is, it isn't hard to find your way around Waterdeep, provided 
you know what you're looking for. Let me be on my way, and, in the future, 
bother the watch for directions." 

-Mulgor, City Collector of Fees, circa 1366 DR 


With a city the size of Waterdeep, it is next to impossible to depict the entire city in 
detail. A complete description of all the buildings in bustling, ever-changing Waterdeep 
is simply a task beyond the scope of this boxed set. While much of the city is detailed at 
least in name and other details, much is left open and this provides Dungeon Masters 
with the chance to make Waterdeep their own, filling in components as necessary for 
exciting play, and to spark the day-to-day adventures of player characters. What this 
chapter provides is a way to randomly determine the size, purpose, and general state of 
repair of sites undetailed within this boxed set. Finally, there is a comprehensive list of 
over 300 buildings with references for additional information on many areas. 

SigbT-Seeiwg In WaTs nbeep 

W aterdeep is a huge city with thousands of buildings of varying size, shape, and 
details, and each Dungeon Master should make the city his or her own, fitting in 
setting particulars to suit the campaign and its player characters. Random generation of 
basic building structures may be accomplished using the table below. The primary form 
and size of the buildings set up by the tables allows the DM to ad-lib during a game, 
adding features during a game session as needed. 

Random creation of Class A buildings (see below) and of specific buildings intended for use 
in play is not recommended; if they're major landmarks or buildings important to the immedi 
ate game, they should be meticulously prepared and mapped. For lesser buildings, don't worry 
about keeping every last improvised detail perfect from game to game in a Waterdeep cam 
paign; DMs who contradict themselves on building layout from one PC visit to another have a 
readily convenient explanation: Buildings in Waterdeep are constantly being rebuilt, reno 
vated, and repaired by the Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' Guild. 

Bu)Ld)Njg CLass 

Buildings in the City can be artificially divided into four classes: 

Class A Buildings: Class A buildings are always unique and distinctive landmarks of 
any scale. Most, however, are of a large and grandiose nature, almost built as much for 
show as for use. Examples within Waterdeep include the city's public structures (e.g. 
the Palace, Castle Waterdeep, the Field of Triumph, the Cynosure, et al), major tem 
ples (the Plinth, the Spires of the Morning, et al), and the nobles' villas (all walled 
villa complexes with interior gardens or enclosed grounds). 







Class B Buildings: Class B buildings cover the larger, 
more successful and elaborate single buildings within the 
city. They have up to five stories, and may have extensive 
cellars (usually connected to the sewers at some point). 
Most inns and guild halls in Waterdeep fall into this class. 
Examples include grand houses and mansions (private resi 
dences without extensive grounds or walled gardens), pros 
perous businesses, large warehouses, and the guild halls 
(randomly generating guild hall interiors is not recom 
mended, as many have specific purposes and require special 
attention). 

Class C Buildings: The great majority of buildings in 
Waterdeep are Class C-the tall row houses that line the 
streets to heights of two stories or more (some as high as 
five!). Row houses usually have shops on the ground floor, 
with offices or apartments above that. While not always 
multi-story row houses, this class includes many of the bet 
ter-kept taverns and rooming houses in the city. 

Class D Buildings: Class D buildings are lesser build 
ings, usually one-story wooden buildings used as small 
warehouses and individual homes and storage sheds for 
Waterdeep's poor. Such buildings are mainly found in Dock 
Ward (and the docks in southern Castle Ward), with a fair 
number in Southern Ward and Trades Ward. 

Buildifog G&sj&ridVosj 

Once the class of a given building has been decided by the 
DM, the following steps can be followed if speedy random 
generation of building features is desired. 

Step 1: Building Height. 

Determine number of stories in building, by deliberate 
choice or by the methods that follow. 

Class B: Roll ld8 and check results below: 

1 One story, no basement 
(cupola and/or skylights possible); 

2 Two stories, no basement; 

3 Three stories, no basement; 

4 Four stories, no basement; 

5 One story + basement; 

6 Two stories + basement; 

7 Three stories + basement; 

8 Four stories + basement 

(tower + additional floors possible). 

Class C: Roll ld4 and check results below: 

1 Two stories, no basement; 

2 Three stories, no basement; 


3 Three stories + basement; 

4 Two stories + basement. 

Class D: Roll ld4 and check results below: 

1 1 story, no basement; 

2 1 story + basement; 

3 1 story, no basement; 

4 1 story + basement. 

Class D buildings may have a dormer, cupola, or tower to 
add partial upper levels, and lean-to additions on the sides. 

Step 2: Building Conditions. 

Roll ld6 or choose the condition of the building below: 

1 Derelict, boarded up (possibly in use as a secret meeting 
place by thieves, intrigue groups, monsters, or adventur 
ers); 

2 Ramshackle, badly in need of repair; 

3 Well-worn and in heavy daily use, with evidence of 

some recent repair work with more minor work needed; 

4 Well-kept and clean, in good condition; 

5 New or pristine condition, freshly decorated or carefully- 

maintained, perhaps with ornate trim and furnishings; 

6 Currently under construction or extensive repair 
(includes recent damage by fire, collapse, weather, 
explosion, etc.). 

Step 3: Building Function. 

Roll ldlO or choose the building's purpose below: 

1 B: Warehouse (with elevator or interior hoist) 

C: Warehouse 

D: Warehouse 

2 B: Warehouse (with elevator or interior hoist) 

C: Row house, offices above ground floor shop 
D: Warehouse 

3 B: Business offices 

C: Row House, apartments above ground floor shop 
D: Warehouse 

4 B: Business offices 

C: Row house, storage or apartments above ground floor 
and second floor shops 
D: Warehouse 

5 B: Boarding/ rooming house 
C: Boarding/rooming house 

D: Private family residence, lesser merchant or laborer 

6 B: Boarding/rooming house 
C: Boarding/rooming house 
D: Boarding/rooming house 

7 B: Row house, apartments above ground floor shop 


rN. 




C: Row house, offices & apartments above ground floor 
shop 
D: Shop 

8 B: Row house, apartments above ground floor offices 

C: Row house, offices & apartments above ground floor 
shop 

D: Office(s) 

9 B: Private family residence, lesser noble or merchant 
C: Row house, ground floor & upper level apartments 

D: Multiple family residence, lesser merchant or laborer 

10 B: Private individual residence, lesser noble or merchant 
C: Row house, ground floor & upper level apartments 

D: Individual residence with rental storage 



Interior Layouts 

The layout of buildings in play may become important if 
PCs engage in extensive indoor thieving, stealthy shadow 
ing, and fighting. Space considerations prohibit the provi 
sion of floor plans for every building, but the adjoining 
maps provide basic layouts for general purpose use (such as 
randomly generated buildings). DMs must adjust the pre 
cise dimensions of the rooms depicted on these plans, alter 
ing window and door positions to fit the known exterior 
and purpose of each building. Note that ground floor win 
dows in all wards are usually barred. These maps are meant 
as guides only, and floorplan details should be regularly 
altered to avoid boredom (and easy access by unlawful PCs 
and NPCs used to specific layouts). 

Representative Floorplan Map Key 

C: Counter 

D: Display cubicle/area/case 

E: Eating area 

EL: Elevator (rope & pulleys lift platform) 

H: Hallway 
K: Kitchen 

L: Living area 

LB: Lobby, entry area 
LO: Lounge area 
O: Office 

P: Privy (water-jug flush) 

PUP: Public use privy/washroom 

S: Store 

SL: Sleeping area 

ST: Storage area (closet) 

SU: Study/meeting room/library 
T: Table 

W: Warehouse space 

X: Possible staircase, or staircase under or over the one 

shown on the plan (i.e. to a lower level), or a trap 
door or chandelier 
O Pillar 
-" Shelving 
- Curtain 

W' Pass-through window in wall (i.e. from kitchen to 
eating area). 


Shipping door 


Storage and Goods 
Preparation Area 



Shipping door 


Storage and Goods 
Preparation Area 



Vfc LO 





Apartment I I 
j y^Vpartment #4 

K 3 f SI/E 5 /L 
Tsl/e/l K (tm) 


Public door 

FLOOR OF SHOP: Plan #1 

Public door 

FLOOR OF SHOP: Plan #2 

FLOOR OF APARTMENTS # 1 

FLOOR OF APARTMENTS #2 

Back door 

" x __ 






Public door 

FLOOR OF OFFICES: Plan #1 


FLOOR OF OFFICES: Plan #2 


SHARED SPACE DWELLING # 1 SHARED SPACE DWELLING #2 


Shipping door 



WAREHOUSE FLOOR #1 


WAREHOUSE FLOOR #2 


CELLAR 

STAIRS^ 



"GREAT 

ROOM" 



If stair continues\ 
to another level, \ , 
it will be here or here: 


SL or LO 


GRAND RESIDENCE FLOOR #1 GRAND RESIDENCE FLOOR #2 


Selected Representative Floorplans for Buildings in Waterdeep 

DMs must adjust the precise dimensions of the rooms depicted In these plans and alter the positions (or 
presence) of doors and windows to fit the Known 
exterior and purposes of each building. Ground floor windows are usually barred. To avoid a "sameness" 
contributing to boredom and too easy 
unlawful, undetected PC entry and egress, DMs must vary floorplan elements; use these examples as 
guides only. 





















The OTy War& Keys 

E ach ward is individually numbered with a special prefix 
that identifies its tagged locations (see below). Each 
ward is described and keyed separately, with special, untagged 
locations mentioned and referenced before the main listing of 
its location key. The map key and the numbering system are 
organized in a pattern starting from the northwest comer of 
the city and each ward, moving east to the ward boundary 
and continuing the pattern from north to south. The city 
ward keys are all in a standard format as follows: 

Tag # Location Type: Location Name 
Building Class & # of stories 


Additional information is shaded; much of this refer 
ences other books for more on the place in question, 
NPCs that frequent said location, and any items or 
details not immediately evident. 

The rest of the abbreviations within the map keys are in 
the tables below. These tables and the map key are more 
detailed than the original map keys within FR1 Waterdeep 
and the North, the original source for the City of Splendors, 
and Volo's Guide to Waterdeep. If DMs are using these 
sources, refer to Appendix Four of this book to cross-refer 
ence old building numbers against the new keys. 

Tags Ward Placement 

$ Sea Ward location 

N North Ward location 

T Trades Ward location 

CD City of the Dead location 
S Southern/South Ward location 

A Q Adventurers' Quarter location (in South Ward) 

D Dock Ward location 

C Castle Ward location 


Location Terms 

Business 

City Building 
Festhall 

Guild Hall 

House 

Inn 

Noble Villa 

Row House 

Tavern 

Temple 

Warehouse 
Wizard's Domicile 

Referral Tag 
CG 

WW 

AG 

SC 

UMTA 

UMTC 

Volo 


Definitions 

Place of business (many with apart 
ments above) 

Place for guard, watch. Lords', and 
public use 

Place of entertainment (most with 
tavern facilities) 

Guild headquarters (many also act as 
Business) 

Privately owned abode of 

noted/wealthy person 

Tavern with beds and meals provided 

Complex of buildings owned by noble 

family 

Multi-story building with rented living 
space 

Establishment for drinking with some 
food 

Singular place of worship or confined 
complex 

Storage for saleable/raw goods 

Tower or home of wizard (danger 

imminent) 

Book Reference 
Campaign Guide to the City 
(Book I of this box) 

Who's Who in Waterdeep 
(Book II of this box) 

Adventurer's Guide to the City 
(Book III of this box) 

Secrets of the City 
(Book IV of this box) 

Undermountain Adventures 
(Ruins of Undermountain box) 
Undermountain Campaign Ginde 
(Ruins of Undermountain box) 

Volo's Guide to Waterdeep 



If you don't have all the sources listed above, don't worry; 
this boxed set is the most complete source on Waterdeep 
and provides enough information to run a Waterdeep game 
campaign. The Rians of Undermountain boxed set and Volo's 
Guide to Waterdeep are supplementary products for roleplay 
ing in Waterdeep. While they do expand on certain details 
in this boxed set, neither product is essential for running 
game campaigns based in Waterdeep. 


40 






Sea Waiz£> 

Field of Triumph: This huge, open-air stadium is the site 
of many spectacles staged for the populace of Waterdeep. 
During the late spring through to late autumn, thousands 
of people flood through the entrance (the awe-inspiring 
Lion Gate) and witness shows of magic, martial skills, horse 
races, and monstrous exhibitions of creatures big and small. 
The Field also acts as a public forum for such important pub 
lic events as the Open Lord's proclamations to the city and 
special gatherings for foreign dignitaries. 

Heroes' Garden: Waterdeep's only public park outside of the 
City of the Dead, Heroes' Garden is a large, lush area of grass, 
trees, and ponds. A number of statues decorate the sward, 
including large marble statues to the Open Lords Baeron and 
Lhestyn (in her guise as the Masked Lady, who destroyed the 
Shadow Thieves' Guild). It is often the scene of adventurers 
telling tales of their exploits to others (including local children). 
The park is tended by the watch and the local citizens who keep 
the park free of debris and refuse (as well as prevent would-be 
heroes from carving their names into the trees, though names 
on the trees include decades-old marks left by Mirt, and six 
members of the Company of Crazed Venturers). 

Seas' Edge Beach: Originally just an area of mud flats on 
the city's western seaside, the area south of the West Gate 
and outside the city walls has been covered with sand and 
turned into a beachfront. While only used as such at the 
height of summer when water temperatures rise to near-tol 
erable levels, Sea's Edge Beach is a remote place citizens 
use for reflection and solitude. This is also the ending place 
for the Auril's Blesstide Cliffs Run. 


$6 Noble villa: Emveolstone family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW p. 14. 

$7 Noble villa: Hiilgauntlet family 

3- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 16. 

$8 Wizard's Domicile: Blue Alley 
1-story Class C building 

CG p. 1, 2, 3, 41, 112-119; AG p. 17; Volo 
P . 54. 

$9 Noble villa: Gauntyl family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 15. 

$10 Temple: The Temple of Beauty 
3-story Class A building 

Temple to Sune. WW p. 62; AG p. 15, 37. 

$11 Noble villa: Brokengulf family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 11, 30; SC p. 5. 

$12 Noble villa: Raventree family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 8, 22. 

$13 Noble villa: Rosznar family 

2- and 5-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 23. 

$14 Noble villa: Jhansczil family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG p. 60; WW p. 17. 

$15 Wizard's Domicile: Naingate 

4- story Class B building 


$1 Tavern: Sated Satyr 

2-story Class C building 

AG p.37. 

$2 Inn: Wyvern's Rest 

2-story Class C building 
AG P . 17, 36, 37. 

$3 Business: Selchoun's Sundries 
2-story Class B building 

AG p. 17, 36; Volo p. 60, 228. 

$4 Inn: Golden Harp Inn 

2-story Class B building 
AG p. 17, 36. 

$5 Temple: The Shrines of Nature 
2 1-story Class B buildings 

Temples to Mielikki and Silvanus. AG p. 15, 
37; SC p. 10. 


CG p. 68, 82; WW p. 66, 78-80; AG p. 17; SC 
p. 6, 7. 

$16 Noble villa: Melshimber family 

4- and 5-story Class A buildings 

CG P . 46; WW P . 19-21, 25; AG P . 47, 52; SC 
P . 7. 

$17 Noble villa: Ilitul family 

2-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 60; WW P . 16. 

$18 Business: Aurora's Realms Shop ("Singing Dol 
phin" Catalogue Counter) 

1- story Class B building 

AG P . 17, 36; Volo P . 58, 227, 229. 

$19 Temple: The Tower of Luck 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
Temple to Tymora. AG p. 15, 37. 






41 














$20 Noble villa: Wavesilver family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 29. 

$21 Temple: The House of Wonder 
5-story Class A buildings 

Temple to Mystra. CG p. 89; WW p. 61; AG p. 
3, 15, 17, 26, 37; SC p. 8. 

$22 Noble villa: Eltorchul family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CC P . 60; WW P . 13, 14; SC p. 4. 

$23 Noble villa: Nesher family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 60; WW P . 21, 27. 

$24 Noble villa: Gundwynd family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 32; WW P . 15, 67. 

$25 Wizard's Domicile: Tessalar's Tower 
4-story Class B building 
WW P . 77. 

$26 Noble villa: Artemel family 

2- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 10. 

$27 Noble villa: Ammakyl family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 10. 

$28 Noble villa: Silmerhelve family 

3- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 23. 

$29 Noble villa: Ruldegost family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 23. 

$30 Wizard's Domicile: The Dragon Tower of Maaril 

4- story Class A building 

WW P . 56, 79; AG P . 17; SC P . 7, 11; Volo 
P . 54. 

$31 Noble villa: Husteem family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 16, 37. 

$32 Noble villa: Zulpair family 
3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 29, 67. 

$33 Noble villa: Eirontalar family 

2- story Class A buildings 

WW p. 13. 

$34 Noble villa: Tesper family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 

Known as "Tespergates." WW p. 25, 26; Volo p. 
55, 226. 


$35 Noble villa: Irlingstar family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 17. 

$36 Noble villa: Manthar family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 60; WW P . 20. 

$37 Tavern: The Fiery Flagon 

1-story Class B building 

CG P . 35; AG P . 17, 28, 37; Volo P . 56, 232. 
$38 Temple: The House of Inspired Hands 
3-story Class B buildings 

Temple to Gond. WW p. 61; AG p. 15, 17. 
$39 Inn: Dacer's Inn 

3-story Class B building 
AG P . 36; Volo P . 61, 215. 

$40 Noble villa: Ilzimmer family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 17, 67; SC P . 9. 

$41 Tavern: The Ship's Wheel 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 37; Volo P . 61, 227. 

$42 Inn: The Pilgrim's Rest 

3- story Class B building 

AG P . 17, 36; Volo P . 63, 216. 

$43 Inn: The Wandering Wemic 
3-story Class B building 
AG P . 36; Volo P . 64, 218. 

$44 Noble villa: Tchazzam family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 25. 

$45 Inn: Maerghoun's Inn 

3-story Class B building 
AG P . 36; Volo P . 62, 234. 

$46 Noble villa: Urmbrusk family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 28. 

$47 Noble villa: Assumbar family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 100. 

$48 Noble villa: Cassalanter family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 

CG P . 69; WW P . 12, 13, 67, 85; SC P . 5. 
$49 Noble villa: Thongolir family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 27. 

$50 Noble villa: Eagleshield family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 13. 


42 




















$51 Noble villa: Dezlentyr family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW p. 10, 12, 13, 67. 

$52 Noble villa: Belabranta family 

3- and 5-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 11. 

$53 Noble villa: Bladesemmer family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 11. 

$54 Festhall: The House of Purple Silks 

4- story Class B building 

AG P . 36; SC P . 8; Volo P . 64, 222. 

$55 Tavern: Gounar's Tavern 

2- story Class B building 

AG P . 17, 37; Volo P . 60, 219. 

$56 Temple: The House of the Moon 
4-story Class A building 

Temple to Selune. WW p. 61, 88; AG p. 15, 
29, 37. 

$57 Noble villa: Moonstar family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 21. 

$58 Temple: The House of Heroes 

3- story Class A building 

Temple to Tempus. CC p. 31; WW p. 61; AG 
P . 15, 37; SC P . 12. 

$59 Tavern: The Broken Lance 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 17, 37. 

$60 Business: Halazar's Fine Gems 

2- story Class B building 

WW P . 47; AG P . 17; Volo P . 59, 230. 

NoRTb Wak& 

Cliffwatch: This sheer 100-foot cliff presents a beautiful 
spot for viewing the countryside east and south of Water- 
deep as well as a valuable defense against invading ores 
and trolls; the Cliffwatch and the adjacent Trollwall 
saved the city during the decade-long Second Trollwar. 
While Khelben Arunsun offers no confirmation on the 
topic, rumors say that he and the Lords have placed two 
of the Walking Statues of Waterdeep in the base of the 
cliff, ready to animate and break up the lines of any 
advancing attackers. The cliff's edge, unobstructed by 
walls or rails, is carefully watched by the guards in the 
Endcliff Tower and the Watchway Tower (at the City of 
the Dead). 


Cliffwatch Ruins: In late Mirtul, the Cliffwatch Inn was 
engulfed in multiple magical explosions that sent gouts of 
flame far into the air overhead. Since that night, the area 
has been surrounded by a high wooden fence and kept 
under constant observation by guard and watch patrols. 
The owner, Felstan Spindriver, has not been seen since the 
destruction of his property and is believed dead. Offers to 
purchase the land have been denied until a full investiga 
tion by the Lords has been completed. 

N1 City Building: Guard Barracks 
3-story Class C building 
N2 Noble villa: Brossfeather family 
2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 60; WW P . 12. 

N3 Noble villa: Anteos family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 10, 92, 94. 

N4 Noble villa: Phull family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 21, 43; AG P . 24. 

N5 Noble villa: Snome family 

2- story Class A buildings 

CG P . 74, 85; WW P . 23, 24, 30; AG P . 59; SC 
P . 7. 

N 6 Noble villa: Crommor family 

2-story Class A buildings 

CG P . 46; WW P . 12, 37, 41, 67. 

N7 Noble villa: Piiradost family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 22, 30; SC P . 12. 

N 8 Noble villa: Thunderstaff family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 27; SC P . 11. 

N 9 Noble villa: Talmost family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 32; WW P . 24, 25. 

N10 Noble villa: Thann family 

3- story Class A buildings 

CG P . 4, 7, 46, 72, 84, 94; WW P . 5, 9, 19, 26, 
27, 85, 86; AG p. 5; SC p. 4, 6-8, 10, 11. 

Nil Noble villa: Hawkwinter family 
3- and 4-story Class A buildings 

Known as "Hawkwinter House." WW p. 15; 
AG P . 14; Volo P . 87. 

N12 Noble villa: Sultlue family 
2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 24; SC P . 11. 







43 



















N13 Noble villa: Cragsmere family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 12, 87. 

N14 Noble villa: Massalan family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 20. 

N15 Noble villa: Kothont family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 18, 88. 

N16 Noble villa: Maernos family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 18, 19, 30; AG p. 47. 

N17 Noble villa: Lanngolyn family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 18, 30, 51. 

N18 Noble villa: Ulbrinter family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 27. 

N19 Noble villa: Jardeth family 

2- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 17. 

N20 Noble villa: Gralhund family 

3- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 15. 

N21 Inn: The Raging Lion 

3- story Class B building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 98, 222, 224. 

N22 Noble villa: Maerklos family 

1- , 2- and 4-story Class A buildings 

WW P . 6, 7, 18. 

N23 Noble villa: Nandar family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 21. 

N24 Noble villa: Stormweather family 

2- and 5-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 24, 30. 

N25 Tavern: A Maiden's Tears 

1- story Class B building 

AG P . 37; Volo P . 95, 234. 

N26 Tavern: Twilight Hunters 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 30, 68; AG P . 14, 37. 

N27 Festhall: The Gentle Mermaid 

4- story Class B building 

AG P . 14, 36; Volo P . 83, 219, 223, 232. 
N28 Noble villa: Durinbold family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW p. 13. 


N29 Noble villa: Estelmer family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 46; WW P . 14, 61. 

N30 Noble villa: Tarm family 

3- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 25; AG P . 46, 60; SC P . 9, 10, 12, 15. 
N31 Noble villa: Majarra family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
CG P . 46; WW P . 19, 94. 

N32 Tavern: The Misty Beard 

4- story Class C building 

AG P . 14, 37; Volo P . 90, 215, 226, 232. 

N33 Noble villa: Agundar family 

1- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 9. 

N34 Noble villa: Amcathra family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 9-11, 67; SC P . 8. 

N35 Noble villa: Hunabar family 

2- story Class A buildings 

CG P . 94; WW P . 16, 67, 68; SC. P 13. 

N36 Noble villa: Thorp family 

3- story Class A buildings 

WW P . 27. 

N37 Noble villa: Lathkule family 

3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 18, 67. 

N38 Noble villa: Kormallis family 

1- and 2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 11, 17, 61; SC P . 9. 

N39 Noble villa: Adarbrent family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 8, 9, 67. 

N40 Noble villa: Phylund family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 6, 11, 21, 22, 30. 

N41 Noble villa: Margaster family 
2-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 20. 

N42 Noble villa: Roaringhorn family 

4- story Class C buildings 

Known as "The High House of Roaringhorn." 
Former Class A buildings fallen into disrepair. 
WW P . 23, 30, 65; AG P . 14; Volo P . 93. 

N43 Business: Ragathan Furriers 
2-story Class C building 
AC P . 36. 


44 


















N44 Noble villa: Zun family 

2- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 29. 

N45 Warehouse: House of Crystal storage 
4-story Class C building 
N46 Guild Hall: The House of Crystal 
2-story Class B building 

HQ: Guild of Glassblowers, Glaziers, & Specu 
lum-Makers. WW p. 45; AG p. 12. 

N47 Inn: The Galloping Minotaur 

2- and 3-story Class B buildings 
AG P . 36; Volo p. 98, 233. 

N48 Business: Meraedos Fine Furs 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 53; AG p. 36; Volo p. 94, 230. 

N49 Business: Sulmest's Splendid Shoes & Boots 

1-story Class C building 

WW P . 51; AG P . 12, 36; Volo p. 94, 218. 

N50 Business: Aurora's Realms Shop ("High Road" 
Catalogue Counter) 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 12, 36; Volo p. 93, 228. 

N51 Guild Hall: The House of Healing 

3- story Class C building 

HQ: Guild of Apothecaries & Physicians. WW 
P . 43; AG P . 12, 37. 

N52 Noble villa: Hothemer family 
3-story Class A buildings 

WW P . 16, 30, 92; SC p. 16. 

N53 Noble villa: Ilvastarr family 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 17. 

N54 Business: Fallen Stars Fish 
1-story Class C building 
AG P . 12. 

N55 Noble villa: Wands family 

3- and 5-story Class A buildings 

CC P . 30, 86, 95, 104, 106; WW p. 9, 13, 14, 
28-30, 48, 68, 73, 77, 81, 82; AG P . 5, 34; SC 
p. 7, 8, 11, 16. 

N56 Tavern: The Grinning Lion 
1-story Class C building 

CG P . 61; WW P . 37; AG P . 14, 37; Volo P . 96, 
221, 232. 

N57 Noble villa: Gost family 

3- and 4-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 15, 23, 67. 


N58 Noble villa: Helmfast family 

3-story Class A buildings 
WW P . 16, 52. 

N59 House: Orlpar Husteem 
3-story Class B building 

Minor noble of Husteem clan (see $31). WW 
P . 37; Volo P . 227. 

N60 Business: Downybeard Tobacconist 
2-story Class B building 
AG p. 12, 36. 

N61 Business: Hriiat Fine Pastries 
2-story Class C building 

WW P . 38; AG P . 12; Volo P . 94, 229. 

CasTLe W\n2> 

Ahghairon's Tower This small tower rises as a slim stone 
pinnacle with few windows, and a conical roof four stories 
from the street. It is always quiet, never visibly changed by 
the passage of years nor disturbed by passersby. Its interior 
(and its secrets) are left to the DM, but it should be noted 
that no one has been able to enter it since Ahghairon's 
death. The cooperative efforts of all Ahghairon's appren 
tices laid potent protective magics about it (above and 
below, as well as all about its walls). These are equal in 
effects to a permanent forcecage enclosing the entire tower 
at a distance of ten feet -a barrier visible only as a faint 
shimmering in the air unless under magical attack (which 
outlines it clearly). Several times over the century since 
Ahghairon's death, the magical barrier was dispelled or 
cancelled by enterprising mages, only to reform again - 
trapping them -1 round per attacker's level later. 

Within this forcecage is a prismatic sphere, also invisible 
except while under attack, and within it is another unseen 
field rife with contingency magic that, if dispelled, will cause 
warning trumpets to sound the alarm in the Palace, Black- 
staff Tower, and the Heralds' Holdfast (far to the north). In 
addition, the tower is encircled by a time stop spell and a 
spell turning field, and a Walking Statue is teleported from 
Mount Waterdeep to the tower and set to attack the 
intruder. Iron golems and stone guardians are believed to 
wait within the Tower to attack intruders, but details of the 
Tower's treasures and interior guardians are unknown; none 
have ever penetrated to them. 

Castle Waterdeep: Waterdeep's great fortress is a thick- 
walled stronghold that frowns down on Castle Ward from 
the flanks of Mount Waterdeep. Pennants and banners 
are often hung and flown from its battlements to signal 
the arrival of this or that diplomat or the commencement 





45 














of gathering for this or that ceremony; the great height of 
the castle walls make such signs readily visible in the 
southern half of the city. The castle's walls rise four hun 
dred feet at their greatest height from the ground, and 
average sixty feet thick, with rooms and passages tunneled 
out of their great bulk. Many protective spells have been 
placed on the walls over the years, and they have never 
been breached in battle. 

Castle Water deep's chambers can house 3,000 in com 
fort, and three times that number if every corner is used for 
accommodation and food storage. Its normal garrison is 
roughly 1,400 city guards. The many dungeon levels 
beneath it, excluding those in the Mount reachable by the 
castle, contain some 90 cells in all (at any one time, 30 or 
so will be in use), many large enough to contain six prison 
ers. The castle's larders, by edict of the Lords, must contain 
an emergency food supply (preserved fish and meat, grains 
and vegetables) large enough to feed 50,000 people for a 
week; this state is maintained, with about two days' extra 
viands, by senior guard officers. 

The guard and watch both use the castle courtyard for 
training their members, and for training horses. Their 
main stables, containing seventy or so fully-trained and 
equipped warhorses, are located in the ground level inte 
rior of the castle's south wall. 

Signal beacons and horns, and mighty catapults capable 
of commanding the entire harbor of Waterdeep as far as 
Deepwater Isle and the Torchtowers, are kept ready on the 
battlements, and there is always a garrison unit of at least 
thirty armed soldiers of the guard on duty. The castle gates 
and all stations of the walls are always guarded, and just 
within the gates is a duty guardroom where a strike squad of 
twenty crossbowmen and two wizards can reinforce the 
guards at the gate in seconds, and anywhere else in or 
under the castle in minutes. 

Space prohibits inclusion of detailed floorplans of the 
castle and its connections with Mount Waterdeep, but a 
basic floorplan layout of the castle has been done as a 
poster map and is included in this boxed set. DMs are 
advised that its twisting passages (most permanently lit by 
continual light spells) are a warren of successive defensive 
"pockets," suitable for holding off attackers from behind 
cover, and that there are extensive (known and guarded) 
secret passages allowing defenders to spy (and fire) upon 
intruders, and to withdraw into the caverns beneath Mount 
Waterdeep if necessary. Castle Waterdeep is a place of great 
age and indomitable strength. 


The Cliff ride: Starting at the Walking Statue, this 
steep, treacherous gravel slope runs along the western edge 
of Mount Waterdeep's northern spur. Its perilous slope 
leads to a popular festhall (C3: Silavene's), a rental villa 
(C2: Fair Winds), and the bards' college of New Olamn. 
The Cliffride is constantly exposed to the seawinds and 
spray from the ocean below. In winter, this area was often 
snowbound and isolated from the rest of the city in the 
past; the north end of the road is now kept open by the 
Loyal Order of Street Laborers, and Melody Mount Walk 
allows traffic to reach New Olamn on the south. 

The entire area is an easily defended pocket away from 
the city, as desired by the families who built these villas, 
but that didn't protect them from death during the vicious 
Guildwars; the four villas were bought by various surviving 
nobles and were rented for years until recently. Three of 
the four were purchased for a festhall and the bards' col 
lege; the fourth. Fair Winds, is still owned and rented out 
(available for 25 gp/month) by the Thann family. 

Fetlock Court: This large paved courtyard adjoining the 
Palace paddocks and stables is the staging area for any 
mounted contingent of the guard before they head out of 
the city for outlying patrols. It has also become an 
impromptu concert area for practicing bards (definitely a 
warmer spot than their quarters at New Olamn). 

The Market: The largest open space in the city, the 
Market is, as its name implies, an open marketplace with a 
perimeter of buildings (many moneylenders and pawnshops 
in them) that encloses the maze of temporary stalls and 
carts that appear there day and night. The Market is the 
best place to haggle for lower prices, but there's no guaran 
tee you'll be able to find what you need. 

Mount Waterdeep: The mountain is a bald, rough crag, 
topped by a lookout tower and griffon-steed eyrie; on its 
seaweed flanks are emplaced eleven gigantic triple-cata 
pults for hurling loads of rock and burning material out to 
sea against attacking ships. It is pierced by several seacaves, 
connected by tunnels of great antiquity whose creator is 
unknown, and formerly used for smuggling-but now con 
trolled (and guarded) by the city guard, and used by the 
Lords in secretive operations. The South Seacave, in par 
ticular, leads down to Skullport. 

New Olamn: Olamn was the first bards' college of 
Waterdeep centuries ago, and the original college stood at 
the current site of the House of Song (though popular 
rumor misplaces it at Halambar's Lute Shop). Due to the 
efforts of Danilo Thann, Kriios Halambar, and the Coun 
cil of Musicians, Instrument-Makers, and Choristers, New 



Olamn was rededicated in 1366. The generous donations 
of the Cliffride villas of Heroes' Rest and Stormwatch 
from Lady Hlanta Melshimber and Lord Kelthul Majarra 
placed the college in its new location in Castle Ward. 

With their continued support (as well as that of the C2 Villa: Fair Winds 
Crommor and the Estelmer noble families). New Olamn 2-story Class B building 

has become a noted education center and an excellent CG p. 45, 46; AG p. 20. 

storehouse of knowledge in just a few short years, with C3 Festhall: Silavene's 
bards coming from across the Realms to study in its walls. 

To make the bards' college more accessible, a tunnel was 

bored through the northern spur of Mount Waterdeep to C4 Temple: The Font of Knowledge 
provide access to New Olamn. The Melody Mount Walk 3-story Class C building 

tunnel is staffed by a contingent of the guard at all times 
(two guards are placed at each end of the Walk) and lit 
with magical glowing gems that brighten or change color 

according to any sound in their vicinity. C5 Temple: The Halls of Justice 

Piegeiron's Palace: This elaborate palace was built for 2- and 3-story Class A buildings 

the third Open Lord of Waterdeep, Lhestyn Arunsun, 
nearly 80 years ago and still stands as a shining symbol of 

the Lords' Rule today, its white marble walls never blem- C6 Wizard's Domicile: Blackstaff Tower 
ished by the corruption so common among Sword Coast 4-story Class B building 

governments. The Palace of Waterdeep (its official title) is 
the main location for many city officials' offices, and the 
majority of them are dedicated to the administration of city C7 City Building: The Cynosure 
services, such as the watch, the guard, city clerks, and the 2-story Class A building 

Loyal Order of Street Laborers. The Lord's Court meets in a Formerly "The Temple of the Overgod." CG p. 

large chamber on the second floor, just up the grand stair- 36; WW 37, 60, 62; AG p. 20, 29. 

case from the echoing, open entry hall. There are also C8 Guild Hall: The Market Hall 
embassies here to represent other countries and cities (the 
most elaborate is the Silverymoon Embassy, with its gate to 

Alustriel's Court). C9 Tavern: The Singing Sword 

The Palace takes its common name from its current resi 
dent, Piergeiron "the Paladinson," the fourth Open Lord of 

Waterdeep. He and his daughter Aleem Paladinstar live in CIO Festhall: The Smiling Siren 
the northern wing of the Palace, their personal lodgings 
occupying the two northern towers. Also in the northern 

wing are various guest quarters for visiting dignitaries with- Cll Inn: The Pampered Traveler 
out a separate embassy in the city. Secret tunnels run from 
Piergeiron's chambers to all the private meeting places of 

the Lords, including Blackstaff Tower. C12 Tavern: The Mighty Manticore 

Walking Statue: This huge, 90-foot-tall stone golem 
stands at the Gull Leap at the western end of Julthoon 

Street, its usual location unless moved elsewhere in the C13 Business: Diloontier's Apothecary 
defense of the city. For more information, see Chapter Five 
of the Campaign Guide to the City. 

C14 Business: Balthorr's Rare & Wondrous Treasures 

1-story Class C building 

WW p. 36; AG p. 20, 36; Volo p. 15, 216. 


1-story Class C building 

AG p. 36, 37. 


1-story Class C building 

WW p. 3, 67, 72; AG p, 20, 37. 


3-story Class B building 

AG p. 36; Volo p. 32, 217, 


2-story Class C building 

AG p. 36; Volo p. 36, 228. 


3-story Class C building 

AG p. 37; Volo p. 28, 220. 


2-story Class B building 

HQ: Council of Farmer-Grocers. WW p. 40. 


CG P . 23, 30, 35, 45, 46, 61, 97, 100; WW 76, 
80; AG p. 20; SC p. 8. 


Temple to Tyr. CG p. 57; WW p. 11, 61, 80; 
AG p. 20, 37; SC p. 9. 


Temple to Oghma. Under conversion into 4- 
story Class B wood & stone building. CG p. 22, 
94,108-110; WW p. 61, 69; AG p. 20, 29, 37. 


3-story Class B building 

CG p. 45; AG p. 20, 36; SC p. 6, 


Cl Temple: Spires of the Morning 

3-story Class A building 

Temple to Lathander. CG p. 29-31, 33, 36; 
WW p. 62, 66, 68; AC p. 20, 37; SC p. 4. 







































C15 Guild Hall: Tower of the Order 

4-story Class B building 

HQ: Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors. 
WW P . 56, 69; AG p. 18, 37; SC p. 16. 

C16 City Building: Palace Paddocks 

2-story Class C building 
C17 City Building: Palace Stables 
2-story Class C building 
C18 Warehouse: Palace storage 
2-story Class C building 
C19 City Building: Guard Barracks 
2-story Class C building 
C20 Tavern: The Crawling Spider 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 20, 37; Volo p. 21, 233. 

C21 Guild Hall: House of the Fine Carvers 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Guild of Fine Carvers. CG p. 61; WW p. 
45; AG P . 18. 

C22 Warehouse: Hilmer storage 

2-story Class C building 

C23 Business: Halls of Hilmer, Master Armorer 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 20, 36; Volo P . 17, 221. 

C24 Tavern: The Dragon's Head Tavern 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 37; Volo P . 23, 233. 

C25 Business: Halambar Lutes & Harps 
2-story Class B building 

CG P . 46; WW P . 40, 41; AG P . 20, 36; Volo P . 
16, 224. 

C26 Business: The Golden Key Locksmiths 
2-story Class C building 

CG P . 22; AG P . 36; Volo P . 15, 215. 

C27 Guild Hall: The Master Bakers' Hall 

2- story Class B building 

HQ: Bakers' Guild. WW P . 38 
C28 House: Velstrode the Venturer 

3- story Class B building 

AG P . 36, 37. 

C29 Business: Olmhazan's Jewels 

1- story Class B building 

CG P . 61; WW P . 47; Volo P . 19. 

C30 Tavern: The Asp's Strike 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 37. 


C31 Business: Rebeleigh's Elegant Headwear 

1- story Class C building 
C32 Tavern: The Elfstone Tavern 

2- story Class B building 

AG P . 20, 37; SC P . 9; Volo P . 24, 234. 

C33 Business: Phalantar's Philtres & Components 

2- story Class B building 

WW P . 37; AC P . 20, 36; Volo P . 19, 228. 

C34 Guild Hall: Pewterers' and Casters' Guild Hall 
1-story Class C building 

HQ: Pewterers' and Casters' Guild. WW p. 46. 
C35 Tavern: The Blue Jack 

1-story Class D building 
AC P . 37; Volo P . 21, 222. 

C36 Guild Hall: Guild Hall of the Order 
1-story Class B building 

HQ: Solemn Order of Recognized Furriers & 
Woolmen. WW P . 53. 

C37 Business: Aurora's Realms Shop ("Waterdeep 
Way" Catalogue Counter) 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 14, 218, 233. 

C38 Inn: The Jade Jug 

4- story Class B building 

AG P . 20, 36; Volo P . 31, 215. 

C39 Guild Hall: Fellowship Hall 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Fellowship of Innkeepers. WW p. 42; AG 

p. 18. 

C40 Guild Hall: The Map House 

2- story Class B building 

HQ: Surveyors', Map-, & Chart-Makers' Guild. 
WW P . 55; AG P . 37, 58. 

C41 House: Shyrrhr, Lady of the Court 

3- story Class B building 

WW P . 82; SC P . 4; Volo P . 14, 230. 

C42 House: Loene the Fighter 
3-story Class A building 

WW P . 66, 79; AG P . 20; Volo P . 13, 224. 

C43 Festhall: Mother Tathlorn's House of Pleasure 

5- story Class B building 

WW P . 9; AG P . 36; Volo P . 34, 231. 

C44 Guild Hall: The House of Gems 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Jewelers' Guild. WW p. 47. 

C45 House: Lady Naneatha Lhaurilstar 

3- story Class B building 

CG P . 74. 














C46 City Building: Bell Tower 

3-story Class C building 
CG p. 61; AG p. 20. 

C47 City Building: Guard Smithy 

2- story Class C building 
C48 Inn: The Yawning Portal 

3- story Class C building 

CG P . 3, 31, 46, 63-65, 69, 107; WW p. 3, 65, 
67; AG P . 36; SC p. 14; UMTC p. 8, 18. 

C49 Tavern: The Red-eyed Owl 
2-story Class D building 
AG P . 37; Volo p. 25, 216. 

C50 Tavern: The Sleepy Sylph 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 37; Volo p. 31, 218. 

C51 Warehouse: Crommor's Warehouse 

4- story Class C building 
C52 House: Mirt's Mansion 

3- story Class A building 

CG P . 64, 70, 74; AG p. 20, 24. 

C53 Tavern: The Quaffing Quaggoth 

1-story Class C building 
CG P . 74; AG p. 20, 37. 

C54 Tavern: The Sailors' Own 

1- story Class D building 

AG p. 37; Volo p. 26, 221. 

Trades Watz& 

Court of the White Bull: This place is a packed-dirt plaza 
built on a historical site. When this area was a grazing area for 
livestock outside the walls, an albino calf was born here (thus 
the name). The calf's owner eventually built the White Bull 
tavern, which thrived for years until destroyed by Thongalar 
the Mighty and Shile Rauretilar in a spell battle so great that 
Azuth, god of mages, was needed to sew reality together again. 
Ever since that time, magic often goes wild when cast inside 
the Court. The site soon became a meeting place and market 
for caravan owners to peddle their wares from the wagons. 

Virgin's Square: This market and traditional hiring 
place for fighters is named for a local legend that virgins 
were sacrificed to dragons on this spot, long before Water- 
deep. Whenever Cult of the Dragon agents are in the city, 
this is their traditional meeting place. 

T1 Tavern: The Underdark 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 63; AG p. 11, 37. 


T2 Business: Khammeral's Coins 

1- story Class C building 

T3 Inn: Inn of the Dripping Dagger 

4- story Class B building 

CG P . 3-4; WW P . 66, 75, 81, 93; AG P . 10, 
36, 37; SC 9; Volo P . Ill, 220. 

T4 Business: The Riven Shield Shop 

2- story Class B building 

AC P . 10, 36; Volo P . 123, 219. 

T5 House: Myrmith Splendon 
2-story Class B building 

Known as "The Snookery." WW p. 83, 84; 
Volo P . 118, 226. 

T6 Wizard's Domicile: Mhair's Tower 

5- story Class A building 

CG P . 95; WW 24, 28, 56, 83; AG P . 11, 33; 
SC P . 11; Volo P . 106, 225. 

T7 Business: Saern's Fine Swords 

2- story Class B building 

AG P . 10, 36; Volo P . 125, 234. 

T8 Inn: Gondalim's 

3- story Class B building 

AG P . 10, 36; Volo P . 127, 230. 

T9 Business: Dunblast Roofing Company 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 38. 

T10 Guild Hall: Citadel of the Arrow 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Fellowship of Bowyers & Fletchers. WW 
P . 41. 

Til Guild Hall: Costumers' Hall 

2-story Class B building 

HQ: Order of Master Taylors, Glovers, & Mer 
cers. WW P . 53; AG P . 10. 

T12 Business: Thentavva's Boots 

1- story Class C building 

CG P . 61, 74; AG P . 10, 36; Volo P . 121, 231. 
T13 Inn: Maelstrom's Notch 

2- story Class B building 

AG p. 11, 36. 

T14 Guild Hall: The League Office 

1-story Class C building 

HQ: League of Basketmakers & Wickerwork- 
ers. WW p. 48. 

T15 Inn: The Unicorn's Horn 

6- story Class B building 

CC p. 61; AG p. 11, 36; SC p. 9; Volo p. 128, 

228 . 





50 













T16 Business: Aurora's Realms Shop ("Street of the 
Tusks" Catalogue Counter) 

4-story Class B building 

AG P . 36; Volo p. 120, 219, 227. 

T17 Business: Orsabbas's Fine Imports 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 10, 36; Volo p. 121, 221. 

T18 Business: Riautar's Weaponry 

2-story Class C building 

WW P . 42; AG p. 10, 36; Volo p. 123, 234. 

T19 Guild Hall: The House of Song 
2-story Class B building 

HQ: Council of Musicians, Instrument-Makers, 
and Choristers. CG p. 46; WW p. 40; AG 

p. 10. 

T20 Business: Patient Fingers Finework 

2-story Class C building 
WW P . 45. 

T21 Warehouse: League of Basketmakers & Wicker- 
workers storage 

4- story Class C building 

T22 Guild Hall: The House of Cleanliness 

1-story Class C building 

HQ: Launderers' Guild. WW p. 47, 48. 

T23 Business: Belmonder's Meats 

1- story Class C building 

WW P . 44; AG p. 10; Volo p. 120, 225. 

T24 Business: Thond Glass and Glazing Shop 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 45. 

T25 Guild Hall: The Zoarstar 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Scriveners', Scribes', and Clerks' Guild. 
WW P . 53; AG p. 10, 37, 47. 

T26 Guild Hall: The Old Guild Hall 
3-story Class C building 

HQ: Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild. CG 
59-63; AG p. 10, 11. 

T27 Guild Hall: The House of Textiles 

2- story Class B building 

HQ: Most Excellent Order of Weavers & 
Dyers. WW p. 51 

T28 Festhall: Golden Horn Gambling House 

3- story Class B building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 120, 221. 

T29 Guild Hall: The House of Light 


T30 Warehouse: House of Light storage 
2-story Class C building 
T31 Guild Hall: Stationers' Hall 
2-story Class C building 

HQ: Stationers' Guild. WW p. 55. 

T32 Inn: The Gentle Rest 

5- story Class B building 

WW P . 37; AG P . 36; Volo P . 126, 231. 

T33 Business: The Gentle Rest stables 
2-story Class C building 
T34 Guild Hall: The Guild Paddock 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Stablemasters' and Farriers' Guild. WW p. 
9, 11, 54, 81. 

T35 Business: Meiroth's Fine Silks 

3- story Class B building 

T36 Tavern: The Bowels of the Earth 

2-story Class C building 

CG P . 63; WW P . 72; AG P . 10, 37, 58; Volo P . 
108, 227. 

T37 Guild Hall: Cobblers' and Corvisers' House 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Cobblers' and Corvisers' Guild. 

T38 City Building/Temple: The Plinth 

6- story Class A building 

Temple to all faiths. CG p. 33, 36, 116; WW p. 
19, 60-62, 66, 69; AG P . 3, 11, 26, 28, 57; Volo 
P . 104, 105. 

T39 Tavern: Felzoun's Folly 

3- story Class C building 

WW P . 37; AG P . 37; Volo P . 125, 220. 

T40 Business: Surtlan's Metalwares 

1- story Class C building 

WW P . 46; AG P . 36. 

T41 House: Scirkhel Wands 
3-story Class B building 

Minor noble of Wands clan (see N55) and Her 
ald of Falconfree. WW p. 9, 29. 

T42 Guild Hall: Wheel Hall 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Wheelwrights' Guild. WW P . 57; AG P . 11. 
T43 Inn: The Grey Serpent 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 128, 228. 

T44 House: Blackstone House 

4- story Class B building 

WW P . 73; AG P . 37; SC P . 5. 


3-story Class B building 

HQ: Guild of Chandlers & Lamplighters. CG 
P . 57; WW P . 44, 45; AG P . 10, 25, 58. 






51 












CITv of the Dead 

The cemetery of Waterdeep has only been in its current 
form for 115 years, but the area has served as the city burial 
grounds for long centuries. The City of the Dead's green 
lawns and white marble tombs are visited often during the 
day by many citizens, though its grounds are off-limits after 
dusk, and the gates are locked (many still hold clandestine 
meetings at night here). For more information, see pages 56 
and 57 of this book. 

CD1 Roads' End 

1-story Class C building 
CD2 The House of the Homeless 
1-story Class C building 
CD3 Ahghairon's Statue 

1-story Class A building 
CD4 Merchants' Rest 

1-story Class B building 
CD5 Warriors' Monument 

1-story Class B building 
CD6 Lords' Respite 

1-story Class A building 
CD7 The Hall of the Sages 

1-story Class B building 
CD8 The Hall of Heroes 

1-story Class A building 
CD9 Mariners' Rest 

1-story Class C building 

SouTbeRw Wand 

Caravan Court: This packed-dirt courtyard serves as a ral 
lying point for incoming and outgoing caravans. Elderly 
citizens are often found here, watching people and animals 
going hither and yon with the caravans. Many vagrants are 
here at night, sleeping with the animals for warmth. 

Waymoot: At the southern intersection of the High 
Road and the Way of the Dragon, the Waymoot is a high 
signpost mounted in the middle of the crossroads with 
hanging arrows pointing toward the harbor and the city 
gates (harbor to the west. South Gate to its east. River 
Gate to its northeast, and North Gate north up the High 
Road). Created by the Watchful Order and funded by local 
merchants, the signpost magically directs travelers to loca 
tions spoken into a crystal on the post. Once a site is spo 
ken, the Waymoot writes the destination onto the relevant 
arrow and indicates its distance from Waterdeep; therefore, 
folk are sent out the appropriate gate leading north, east, or 
south, depending on their destinations. 


51 Tavern: The Swords' Rest 

1-story Class C building 

WW P . 75; AG p. 8, 37; Volo p. 161, 217. 

52 Guild Hall: The Stone House 

1- story Class D stone building 

HQ: Carpenters', Roofers' and Plaisterers' 
Guild. WW P . 38; AG p. 7. 

53 Guild Hall: The House of Good Spirits 

3-story Class B building 

HQ: Vintners', Distillers', and Brewers' Guild. 
WW P . 55, 92; AG P . 7, 45; Volo P . 152, 219, 
220, 226, 230. 

54 Business: The Redbridle Stables 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 81. 

55 Guild Hall: The Coach and Wagon Hall 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Wagonmakers' and Coach Builders' Guild. 
WW P . 56. 

56 Guild Hall: Saddlers' & Harness-Makers' Hall 

2-story Class B building 

HQ: Saddlers' & Harness-Makers' Guild. CG 
P . 62; WW P . 53. 

57 Business: Brian the Swordmaster's Smithy 
2-story Class C building 

CG P . 68; AG P . 7, 36, SC P . 7, 16. 

58 Business: The Old Monster Shop 

4- story Class D building 

AG P . 7, 36; Volo P . 146, 220. 

59 Tavern: Midnight Sun 

1- story Class D building 

AG P . 37. 

510 Wizard's Domicile: Kappiyan Flurmastyr & Shalara 

Malarkkin 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 75, 79, 80; AG P . 8, 55; SC P . 10; Volo 
P . 138, 223, 229. 

511 Guild Hall: Builders' Hall 

2-story Class B wooden building 

HQ: Guild of Stonecutters and Masons. WW 
P . 42; AG P . 7. 

512 Business: Nelkaush the Weaver 

1- story Class C building 

513 Guild Hall: The Road House 

2- story Class B building 

HQ: Fellowship of Carters and Coachmen. 
WW P . 42. 









514 Tavern: The Full Cup 

1- story Class D building 

AG P . 7, 37; Volo p. 161, 220. 

515 Festhall: The Jade Dancer 

3-story Class B building 

AG P . 7, 36; Volo p. 155, 218, 224, 229. 

516 Business: Tehmak's Coaches 

3- story Class B building 
SI 7 Business: Hlakken Stables 

2- story Class C building 

CG P . 74. 

518 Tavern: The Spouting Fish 

4- story Class C building 

CG P . 62; AG p. 7, 37; Volo p. 159, 223. 

519 Business: Nueth's Fine Nets 

1- story Class C building 

Volo P . 159, 231. 

520 Guild Hall: Metalmasters' Hall 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths & 
Metalforgers. WW p. 50; AG p. 7. 

521 Aurora's Realms Shop ("South High Road" Cata 
logue Counter) 

4- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo p. 159, 225. 

522 Tavern: The Red Gauntlet 

2- story Class D building 

AG P . 37; Volo p. 160, 219. 

523 Business: Pelauvir's Counter 

5- story Class C building 

AG P . 7, 36; Volo p. 159, 217. 

524 Business: Bellister's Hand 

2- story Class C building 

525 Warehouse: Bellister's House 

3- story Class C building 

CG P . 62. 

526 Business: Orm's Highbench 

4- story Class D building 

Trading Company. AG p. 37. 

527 Business: Athal's Stables 

2-story Class D building 

AdveMTuReRs' QuAizTeiz 

See also: AG p. 36-64, and SC 1-16. 

AQ1 Business: Essimuth's Equipment 
2-story Class C building 

CG P . 94; WW p. 28, 64, 68. 


AQ2 Row House: Temple of Good Cheer 
3-story Class C building 
CG P . 100; WW P . 68. 

AQ3 Row House: Madame Garah's Boarding House 
2-story Class B building 
CG p. 100. 

AQ4 Business: Amrani's Laundry 
1-story Class C building 
AQ5 Business: Piatran's Clothiers 

1- story Class C building 
AQ6 House: Home of Rokkek Ingerr 

2- story Class B building 
AQ7 Business: Hemmerem's Stables 

4 1- and 2-story Class B buildings 
AQ8 Wizards' Tower: Kolat Towers 

2 4+-story Class B buildings 

Known as "Thriftowers" or "Collapse Towers." 
CG P . 34, 53, 87, 88-91, 94-96, 100,108; WW 
P . 20 . 

AQ9 City Building: Watch Guardpost 
2-story Class B Building 

AQ10 Home/Business: The Garrulous Grocer 

3 1-, 2-, and 3-story Class B & C buildings 

Known as "Jalbuck Tower." CG p. 53, 70, 81. 
AQ11 Business: Krabbellor Silversmiths 
2-story Class C building 
AQ12 Business: Laran's Cartographers 
2-story Class B building 
WW P . 9. 

AQ13 Business: Waukeen's Wares 

2- story Class D building 

WW P . 37, 86, 96. 

AQ14 Inn: The Safehaven Inn 

3- story Class B building 

CG P . 94, 98; WW p. 19, 65, 68. 

AQ15 Warehouse: Ingerr & Ingerr Warehouses 
2-story Class C Building 
AQ16 Tavern: The Beer Golem 
2-story Class C building 
AQ17 Noble villa: Phaulkonmere 

2- and 3-story Class A buildings 
CG 33, 34; WW P . 87. 

AQ18 Business: The Daily Trumpet Building 

3- story Class C building 
AQ19 Temple/House: Helm's Hall 

3-story Class C building 
AQ20 Tavern: Tymora's Blessing 
1-story Class D building 





53 










Dock WAizd 

Old Xoblob Shop: This curiosity shop is filled with lots of 
battle trophies and souvenirs from Undermountain. The 
shop is untidy and ill-organized, but worth a look to see the 
stuffed beholder hanging by the main counter (its name 
adorns the shop, and Dandalus Ruell, the proprietor, loves 
to tell the tale of his victory over Old Xoblob). For details, 
see: UMTC p. 11; Volo p. 216, 218, 221. 

D1 Tavern: The Grey Griffon 

3-story Class C building 
AG P . 37. 

D2 Business: Turnstone Plumbing and Pipefitting 

2-story Class C building 
WW P . 39. 

D3 Guild Hall: The Metal House of Wonders 

2-story Class C building 

HQ: Splendid Order of Armorers, Locksmiths, 
and Finesmiths. WW p. 47, 54; AG p. 22. 

D4 Warehouse: Dhaermos storage 
5-story Class D building 
D5 Business: Whistling Blades 

1- story Class D building 

AG P . 22, 36. 

D6 Tavern: Selune's Smile 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 37. 

D7 Inn: The Rearing Hippocampus 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo p. 205. 

D8 Inn: The Splintered Stair 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo p. 206. 

D9 Inn: The Blackstar Inn 

3-story Class C building 
AG P . 36; Volo p. 206. 

DIO Business: Serpentil Books & Folios 

3- story Class D building 

WW P . 37; AG p. 22, 36, 37; Volo p. 180, 223. 
Dll Inn: The Ship's Prow 

4- story Class C building 

AG P . 24, 36; Volo p. 190. 

D12 Tavern: The Thirsty Sailor 
3-story Class D building 
AG P . 37; Volo p. 187. 


D13 Tavern: The Thirsty Throat 

2-story Class D building 

WW P . 37, 95-96; AG p. 37; SC P . 3, 13; Volo 
P . 203, 217. 

D14 Warehouse: Helmstar Warehouse 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 36; Volo P . 173. 

D15 Inn: Warm Beds 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 24, 36; Volo P . 205. 

D16 Business: Lanternmaker Zorth Ulmaril 
2-story Class D building 
D17 Tavern: The Bloody Fist 

1-story Class D building 
AG P . 37; Volo P . 204. 

D18 Festhall: Three Pearls Nightclub 

1- story Class D building 

CG P . 62; AG P . 24, 36; SC P . 5; Volo P . 184, 
221, 233, 234. 

D19 Guild Hall: Shipwrights' House 

2- story Class B building 

HQ: Order of Master Shipwrights. CG p. 10; 
WW P . 35, 50, 52, 71; AC P . 28. 

D20 Warehouse: Red Sails 

2-story Class C building 

Storage for rent. WW p. 37; Volo p. 199. 

D21 Tavern/Guild Hall: Muleskull Tavern 

2- story Class D building 

HQ: Dungsweepers' Guild. CG p. 32, 34, 65; 
WW P . 37, 41, 88; AG P . 3, 26, 37, 40. 

D22 Festhall: The Hanging Lantern 
6-story Class C building 

WW P . 87, 88; AG P . 24, 36; Volo P . 171. 

D23 Tavern: The Sleeping Wench 

3- story Class D building 

AC P . 37; Volo P . 202. 

D24 Business: Aurora's Realms Shop ("Slut Street" 

Catalogue Counter) 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 200, 214, 217. 

D25 Festhall: The Purple Palace 

4- story Class C building 

CG P . 32, 74; AG P . 36; Volo P . 208. 

D26 Festhall: The Mermaid's Arms 

3-story Class C building 

AG P . 36; Volo P . 207, 218. 














D27 Tavern: The Blue Mermaid 

2-story Class D building 
AG P . 37; Volo p. 200. 

D28 Guild Hall: Shippers' Hall 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Fellowship of Salters, Packers, and Joiners. 
WW P . 43. 

D29 Warehouse: Shippers' storage 

3- story Class D building 

D30 Warehouse: The House of Tarmagus 

4- story Class D building 
D31 Guild Hall: Coopers' Rest 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Coopers' Guild. WW p. 40. 

D32 Tavern: The Hanged Man 

1-story Class D building 
AG P . 37; Volo p. 202. 

D33 Business: House of Pride Perfumes 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 22, 36; Volo p. 200. 

D34 House: Arnagus the Shipwright 

3- story Class B building 

WW P . 71; Volo P . 216. 

D35 Tavern/Guild Hall: Full Sails 

3-story Class C building 

HQ: Most Diligent League of Sail-Makers & 
Cordwainers. WW p. 50, 91; AG p. 24, 37. 

D36 Festhall: The Blushing Mermaid 

2- and 3-story Class C buildings 
AG P . 36; Volo P . 193. 

D37 Business: Felhaur's Fine Fish 

1-story Class D building 
D38 Business: Khostal Hannass, Fine Nuts 

1- story Class D building 
D39 Guild Hall: Seaswealth Hall 

2- story Class C building 

HQ: Fishmongers' Fellowship. WW p. 40, 43; 
AG P . 22. 

D40 Business: Nestaur the Ropemaker 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 36. 

D41 Tavern: The Sleeping Snake 

1-story Class D building 

CG P . 74; AG P . 37; Volo P . 202. 

D42 Inn: Shipmasters' Hall 

3- story Class C building 

AG P . 24, 36. 


D43 Guild Hall: Watermens' Hall 

3-story Class C building 

HQ: Guild of Watermen. WW P . 47; AG P . 22. 
D44 Guild Hall: Mariners' Hall 

3- story Class B building 

HQ: Master Mariners' Guild. WW p. 50, 73; 
AG p. 22, 24, 27. 

D45 Business: Torpus the Tanner 

2-story Class C building 
D46 Guild Hall: League Hall 
2-story Class C building 

HQ: League of Skinners & Tanners. WW p. 48, 
49, 51, 53; AG P . 22. 

D47 Guild Hall: The Butchers' Guild Hall 

2-story Class C building 

HQ: Guild of Butchers. AG p. 22. 

D48 Business: Melgard's Fine Leathers 

1- story Class C building 

AG P . 36. 

D49 Warehouse: Thomm storage 

4- story Class C building 

D50 Business: Telethar Leatherworks 

2- story Class D building 

WW P . 48; AG P . 36. 

D51 Warehouse: Fellowship storage 

4-story Class C building 

Warehouse space for Fishmongers' Fellowship. 
D52 Business: Smokehouse 

2-story Class D building 

Joint use by the Fishmongers' Fellowship and 
the Guild of Butchers. AG p. 22. 

D53 House: Jemuril the Dwarf 

2- story Class C building 

WW P . 78. 

D54 Festhall: The Copper Cup 

4- and 5-story Class C buildings 

CG P . 14; AG P . 24, 28, 36; Volo P . 197, 220, 
222, 223, 231, 232, 234. 

D55 Business: Gelfuril the Trader 

1- story Class C building 

AC P . 36; Volo P . 199, 220. 

D56 City Building: Guard Barracks 

3- story Class C building 
D57 City Building: Cookhouse Hall 

2- story Class C building 

AG P . 24. 













CbapTeR Four.* 
Places of IsftenesT 
& DawgeR 

ookingfor danger and excitement, are you? Well don't be so eager to hunt 
1 it down - it often finds you soon enough in this city. If you ever want to 
ever live to see your first gray hair, you'll learn to not rashly seek out peril 
at every opportunity. I don't mean you should stop seeking adventure, but 
Waterdeep provides enough amusements and thrills for men and gods alike 
all on its own without stirring any more up." 

-Durnan, circa 1352 DR 



While nearly every corner of the City of Splendors is interesting (and potentially dan 
gerous), this chapter deals with some of the larger, special areas guaranteed to pique the 
interest of any intrepid adventurers: The City of the Dead, Waterdeep Harbor, the sew 
ers of Waterdeep, Undermountain, and the Rat Hills. 

The City of The Dead 

T his walled enclosure on the eastern edges of Trades Ward is the general cemetery 
for Waterdeep, and its size nearly makes it a ward in and of itself. It is neatly 
tended by a contingent of watch members (who keep it peaceful with constant, strict 
patrols) and various members of the Guild of Chandlers and Lamplighters (who light 
the torches around and inside a number of the tombs). It is a beautiful, open park dur 
ing the day, one of the few places dominated by greenery that the citizens of Waterdeep 
share within the city walls. Citizens are forbidden to enter the City of the Dead at 
night; of course, many of the city's shady natives ignore this and take their chances 
having meetings here at all hours. 

When it was simply the city cemetery at the high end of the sloping plateau, the 
deceased were simply buried with simple ceremonies and placed in deep graves in the 
soil. Three decades after Ahghairon began the Lords' Rule of Waterdeep, a wall was 
erected around the cemetery that now abutted the growing city. By the year 218 
Northreckoning, the city was too large for its cemetery to contain its dead by conven 
tional means; Ahghairon and other mages of Waterdeep, most notably an expert on 
gates and teleportation named Anacaster, created the first magical tombs of the City of 
the Dead, which now allowed them to bury their dead on the unlimited expanses of 
other uninhabited dimensions. Two years later, with the high number of undead escap 
ing the tombs and graves, the walls of the cemetery were strengthened. The tombs 
became locked, defensible structures, and the Lords sent out word that no one was 
allowed in the City of the Dead after dark. In the 115 years since then, there have only 
been a few sporadic incidents involving the cemetery (see Knight of the Living Dead as 
an example from 1357 DR). 






Key To The OTy of The Dead 

The areas within the City of the Dead are filled with mar 
ble tombs, all connected along a gravel path that leads to 
all the exits of the cemetery. Unkeyed tombs are those of 
an individual noble or a wealthy family; less than half the 
noble families keep tombs here (many have family crypts 
beneath their villas, or have their dead buried in family 
land holdings outside the city), but in several cases, noble 
families share a tomb, which usually leads to separate crypts 
beneath and some floors above. 

There are two large watchtowers along the walls of the 
City of the Dead, each with an external guard posted to 
watch for trouble in the shadowy corners and alleys abut 
ting the cemetery. There are four watch members on duty 
within each of the towers; in addition, four more watch 
members make a sweep through the City of the Dead three 
times an hour, making sure no vagrants or other people are 
within the cemetery after dark. If they run into trouble, 
their horns can be heard by all posted watch members in 
the cemetery and in Trades Ward; the senior civilar of the 
City of the Dead has an enchanted horn that, when blown, 
also magically sounds inside Piergeiron's Palace and the 
Halls of Justice, summoning a contingent of clerics and pal 
adins to combat undead. 

Roads' End (City Map Location CD1): This small, one- 
story tomb is the final resting place for travelers who die 
while in the city; any unclaimed possessions are interred 
with their remains (minus any outstanding debts including 
their burial costs). Of late, the tomb has been the site of 
many robberies (thieves are usually acting upon rumors of 
some rich adventurers buried with great magic and gold). 

House of the Homeless (City Map Location CD2): This 
is a vast, two-story mausoleum with a row of low steps lead 
ing to its high metal gates. Anacaster's gate (an opaque 
energy-filled arch at the end of the echoing, empty entry 
hall) leads to an apparently endless labyrinth of under 
ground caverns. These caverns are lit by the Guild of 
Chandlers & Lamplighters, who are paid by the city for this 
service. Here lie all the dead of Waterdeep who do not 
merit, or do not own (by purchase or membership in a 
noble or wealthy family), a place in any other tomb. If their 
names are known, such are always cut into the rock above 
the hole where their cremated ashes are interred. 

Ahghairon's Statue (City Map Location CD3): This 
tall, marble sculpture is an incredibly lifelike sculpture of 
the bearded, robed mage in his prime (at a mere 70 win 


ters). Ahghairon stands atop concentric steps, facing west 
with his hands outstretched to indicate the City of Water- 
deep around him, and the statue has a smile on his face. 
The steps are lit by night with rows of torches, and are a 
favorite meeting-spot by day. 

Merchants' Rest (City Map Location CD4): Also 
known as "The Coinscoffin," this tomb also contains one of 
Anacaster's gates, which leads to a lightly wooded region 
with inset plaques on the ground marking the burial plots. 
This resting place is reserved for those who prepay for the 
honor of burial here (thus, its nickname). 

Warriors' Monument (City Map Location CD5): This is 
a 60-foot-high impressive stone sculpture depicting a circle 
of three men and two women striking down trolls, ores, 
hobgoblins, bugbears, and barbarians, all of whom are 
falling backward-outward-all around them. Seven years 
ago, the statue was renovated and magically altered to add 
a griffon-rider flying above the other warriors and spearing 
a minion of Myrkul (to commemorate those warriors who 
perished against the onslaught of Myrkul's invasion during 
the Godswar). 

Lords' Respite (City Map Location CD6): This small, 
black marble tomb is the final resting place of those Lords 
who wish to be buried in state here. Its is fronted on three 
sides by statues of the Open Lords: Ahghairon stands on 
the north side, Baeron to the east, and Lhestyn on the 
south. There is no statue on its western face, but there is a 
door apparently made of the same smoky material as the 
Lords' Helms, which prevents any from seeing or entering 
inside the tomb. Only one Lord has been buried here in the 
past 20 years, and their identities remain secret even in 
death, buried in full Lord's regalia; the tomb was built with 
funds left by Lhestyn, and she was buried there with great 
ceremony after its construction. 

Hall of Sages (City Map Location CD7): This is a spe 
cial tomb for sages, a small, dusty tomb with only about 80 
sages interred inside. What makes it interesting to some 
illicit treasure hunters is the rumor that many of the sages' 
rarest tomes and books were interred with their cremated 
remains (a false rumor maintained by Laeral and others to 
flush out dealers of forbidden lore). 

Hall of Heroes (City Map Location CD8): This is the 
official warriors' tomb of Waterdeep, for fighters and all 
who fall in battle. Its blue marble walls enclose a trophy 
hall with many remembrances of the fallen, including the 
broken pieces of Warlord Lauroun's ancient battle axe and 
the sword hilt of Raurlor (its blade long since turned into 


the skeleton of an asp). At the far end of the hall from the 
entrance is one of Anacaster's gates to pleasant rolling fields 
on an "empty," grassy plane, where the warriors are buried, 
row upon row. 

Mariner's Rest (City Map Location CD9): Decorated 
with coral carvings and built of green marble, the Mariner's 
Rest tomb is for all who drowned at sea, and all ship-cap 
tains, however deceased. Anacaster made this tomb a spe 
cial gate to a plane with infinite burial space around the 
shores of a quiet, placid lake. 

WATeR&eep Hdrzborz 

T he naturally sheltered, deepwater basin that gives the 
city its name and its wealth is a bustling place. Its 
chill waters are kept fairly clean by the diligent work of the 
Watermen (see Chapter 3 of Who's Who in Waterdeep) 
above, and hired mermen below. The mariners of the 
Waterdeep Guard control access to the harbor above the 
waves, using the retractable chain-nets and walls of the 
defensible harbor to bar entrance or exit by particular 
ships. 

Beneath the waves of the harbor lives another entire 
population of Waterdhavians: a colony of mermen and 
mermaids and recently-arrived sea elves (see Chapter Two, 
"And Now, the News"). The mermen maintain a small 
community (60 well-armed males) under Deepwater Isle in 
guarded caves, and rotate willing males of their folk to man 
it; mermen within Waterdeep Harbor are considered as part 
of the guard, though their weaponry and equipment is 
wholly their own. No young or mermaids (aside from a few 
rare shaman mermaids (treat as priests)) will be found in 
these relatively chill, inhospitable waters, but a few dol 
phins that carry messages between this outpost and the 
larger undersea habitations of these folk (in southern 
Nelanther, or the Pirate Isles) are often seen. The mermen 
are paid handsomely in food, medical supplies, and trade- 
bars (the equivalent of 25 gp per head per month) by the 
Lords in return for their loyal patroling of the harbor 
depths against invaders, predators, and hazards to shipping. 
Their aid in the recovery of corpses, spilled cargo, sunken 
vessels, and the like alone is worth their pay. Magic-users 
(an expected watch-wizard duty) communicate with the 
mermen and, by means of their Art, enable senior guard 
officers and a few senior watch officers to do the same via 
water breathing and comprehend languages magic. 

Waterdeep's sewers empty into the harbor at places cov 
ered with extremely large and strong gratings, and the mer 


men regularly patrol these areas, using catch-nets on poles 
to scoop and gather the debris into large tow-globes for 
transport far out to sea. The mermen have an undersea gar 
den in a "hot rift," where they grow and cultivate certain 
undersea plants, for use as seaborne nutrient fertilizer and 
as a supplement to their own food supplies. 

The harbor's rocky, sloping bottom is thinly covered 
with mud, especially at the southern end of the harbor, but 
is kept free of plants and litter; the harbor floor slopes south 
toward Deepwater Isle, but rises on the western and eastern 
ends, creating a lopsided bowl-like harbor. At the harbor's 
bottom near Deepwater Isle, the slope drops off sharply, 
plunging to great, unplumbed depths - this is the area 
known as Umberlee's Cache (see Chapter Two of the 
Adventurer's Guide to the City); this used to be only a slight 
depression, but mermaid shamans magically opened the 
harbor floor and found deeper caverns beneath, sending the 
tithes of the Cache away from prospective treasure hunters. 
At the edge of Umberlee's Cache stands a lighthouse with 
a magical light, which guides the mermen patrols, acts as a 
tethering spot for giant sea horse steeds, is an armory and 
storage facility for the mermen, and serves as a post for 
guarding Umberlee's treasures. It also acts as a subsurface 
beacon for the ships above. 

Due to the cleanliness of the harbor and the undersea 
lighthouse, a swimmer is likely to be noticed in a turn or 
less by the mermen (within three rounds, if near Umber 
lee's Cache), and corpses or other large drifting or unmov 
ing objects are spotted in 4-14 (ldl0+4) turns. Locathah 
sometimes come to the harbor to trade, as do mermen, but 
lizard men and sahuagin are attacked on sight; both are 
rarely seen, but there was a desperate attack on the harbor 
during the Rat Hills Conflagration by enraged sahuagin try 
ing to escape the fires near their fouled water lairs. 

The mermen are free to travel outside the harbor, but 
seldom patrol outside of it; their regular patrols usually 
move no farther west than a quarter-mile from the west 
ern shores of Deepwater Isle or a half-mile north of 
Stormhaven Island. They know something of the dan 
gerous undersea life hereabouts: eyes of the deep and 
sharks cruise these cold waters during the summer 
months. Aquatic elves can be normally be found far to 
the southwest, and around Evermeet. All aquatic races 
are to be found to the south, in warmer waters, and con 
duct much trade (and warfare) there. However, a num 
ber of mysterious occurrences have agitated the mermen 
and are a growing cause for concern above the waves as 
well. Sea elven villages are being attacked with greater 




frequency to the south (see Chapter Two), and a number 
of refugees came north to Water deep. An apparent force 
has collected a number of the sea's more dangerous 
denizens together and has them working in concert 
toward some dangerously destructive end. Other under 
sea attacks and some mysterious shipwrecks are happen 
ing up and down the Sword Coast, and the mermen are 
hoping to expand their colony beneath Deepwater Isle, 
trading the comfort of the southern waters for the 
defenses of the City of Splendors. 

The Seuoerzs of The 
C)Ty 

T he accompanying map shows the known sewers of 
Waterdeep; the uppermost portions of the sewers 
are in present use and fairly good repair, thanks to the 
efforts of the Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild. Many 
older, smaller tunnels are walled up and not in use - at 
least, not to carry sewage. . . . The map is reliable and 
accurate, but some of its features are not in exact scale; 
many features (such as the junction rooms and surface- 
shafts) are distorted in size for clarity. The sewers them 
selves have no names, and directions through them, if 
given at all, tend to be in terms of entry points and 
paces. (For example, "enter the sewers at Coach Street 
(Sewer Feature #66), take the right passage thirty paces 
northeast, and you should find . . .") 

Pass ageuuavs 

The map shows only the largest passageways of the sewers, 
such as those navigable by M-sized creatures. These are of 
two sorts: "primary" and "secondary," according to size. 

Primary passages are twenty feet across and contain 
three-foot-wide railless walkway-ledges on both sides. 
Sewer workers cross passages by means of using their 16' 
"catch poles" to vault across, or by the use of boards, which 
they lay down as temporary bridges. The catch poles are 
also more commonly used for reaching below water level to 
clear debris from sewer gratings. 

Secondary passages are twelve feet across with a single 
three-foot-width ledge on one side (usually the more 
southerly or easterly). The countless feeder pipes (any 
sewer pipe of less than a one-foot diameter) and tertiary 
tubes (which can be crawled through by slim M-sized crea 
tures only if dry, or if water breathing magic is employed) are 
not shown. 






Other Sewer Features 

Air & Light: The air supply is reasonably good in the sew 
ers; there is little danger of suffocation due to the numerous 
small feeder pipes that bring refuse and stench-ridden air 
down from the surface. There is, however, little or no light, 
lots of noise from the echoing water flow, and a terrible 
stench pervading the entire network. 

Disease: Excessive contact with sewer water (like swim 
ming or falling in, or any other activity that results in a 
character's nostrils, mouth, eyes, or ears getting wet) carries 
a 15% risk of communicating a disease; a check should be 
made with each immersion of a character's head in the sew 
ers. If DMs wish, the same checks could apply to open 
wounds and infections through them. 

Gratings: Gratings in the sewers are stout, but many 
are often old and rusty -double all bend bars chances 
against these gratings. Gratings may be permanently set 
into the stone walls or they may swing open when 
unlocked; thieves suffer a -5% chance of picking the 
locks on the gratings, since they are massive, and are 
often rusted nearly solid. 

Sewer Features & Surface References 
Junction Room: These rooms are usually 10'xlO' stone 
walled cubicles with 20'-high ceilings and a sitting ledge 
near the ceiling, above the muck. 

Surface Shaft: These 6-foot-diameter shafts have iron 
rungs set in the walls to use as ladders to and from the sew 
ers. The entrances tend to be 3-foot-wide holes capped by 
removable, metal (or metal-banded wood) covers. 

1. Surface Shaft; entrance located under the trees in the 
interior of the block west (and slightly north) of the 
shrine of Silvanus (City Map Location $5). 

2. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the northernmost 
comer of Sabbar's Alley. 

3. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the center of Shank 
Alley, just southwest of the warehouse that stands in 
the interior of the block. 

4. Surface Shaft; entrance located just south of the tree in 
Sniff Alley, south off the Street of Glances. 

5. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the central stand of 
trees in the southern end of Heroes' Garden. 

6. Surface Shaft; entrance located under a lone tree in the 
alleyway west of the Eltorchul family villa (City Map 
Location $22), south of Ivory Street and north of 
Pharra's Alley. 


Surface Shaft; entrance located in the mouth of the 
alleyway that opens north off Chasso's Trot, just west of 
Sul Street. 

8. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
a cul-de-sac due south of the Jhansczil family villa (City 
Map Location $14), across the road. 

9. Surface Shaft; entrance located under the tree in the 
alleyway just south of the Brossfeather family villa 
(City Map Location N2). 

10. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the northern end of 
a dead end alley that opens off Grimwald's Way, just 
south of the Ilitul family villa (City Map Location 
$17). 

11. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the easternmost cul- 
de-sac opening off the alleyway that bounds the Nesher 
family villa (City Map Location $23), just west off 
Mendever Street. 

12. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
the alleyway just west of the gates of the Manthar fam 
ily villa (City Map Location $36), off Delzorin Street 
between Sul Street and Shield Street. 

13. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the large clump of 
trees in the interior alleyway of the block bound by 
Vordil Street, the High Road, Delzorin Street, and 
Copper Street. 

14. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the southeastern cor 
ner. of Trollskull Alley, closest to the intersection of 
Whaelgund Way and Delzorin Street. 

15. Surface Shaft; entrance located in a cul-de-sac opening 
north off Horn Street, between Tower March and 
Whaelgund Way. 

16. Surface Shaft; entrance located under the trees in the 
dead-end alley in the southern interior of the block 
bounded by Delzorin Street, Vhezoar Street, Sulmoor 
Street, and Ilzantil Street. 

17. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the mouth of 
Sharra's Flight, where it joins the Street of Whispers. 

18. Surface Shaft; entrance located in a cul-de-sac opening 
northeast off Toalar's Lane. 

19. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located 
where Gothal Street meets Calamastyr Lane. 

20. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the southwestern 
corner of Runer's Alley. 

21. Junction Room (no surface connection); located under 
the southern mouth of Cloaksweep Alley. 

22. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the trees at the cen 
ter of the block bounded by Hassantyr's Street, the 
High Road, Julthoon Street, and Copper Street. 


60 


23. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the western end of 
Marlar's Lane (by the alleyway parallel to Tharleon 
Street). 

24. Surface Shaft; entrance located behind (due south of) 
Blackstaff Tower (City Map Location C6), at the base 
of the rocky cliff-face. 

25. Surface Shaft; locked entrance opens onto the surface 
near the top of the rocky slope of Mount Waterdeep, at 
a point due southwest of Turnback Court. 

26. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
Turnback Court. 

27. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the southwest comer 
of an alleyway opening south off Cymbril's Walk, 
between the Street of Silver and Warriors' Way. 

28. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
the southwest comer of a dead-end alley in the block 
bounded by Lamp Street, the Street of Bells, Cymbril's 
Walk, and the Street of the Sword. 

29. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the northwestern- 
most junction of alleyways in the block bounded by 
Lamp Street, the High Road, Selduth Street, and the 
Street of Bells. 

30. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the southeastern- 
most comer of an alley opening off of the High Road 
(the first north of Lamp Street, just to the west of 
Andamaar's Street). 

31. Junction Room (no surface connection); located under 
the Grinning Lion tavern (City Map Location N56). 

32. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the northwest comer 
of an alleyway that opens off Golden Serpent Street 
and Nindabar Street, just east of Mhalsymber's Way. 

33. Surface Shaft; entrance located halfway down Belzound 
Street. 

34. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the northern mouth 
of an alleyway opening south off Sevenlamps Cut. 

35. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the intersection of 
Shadows Alley and Lemontree Alley. 

36. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the alleyway just 
north of the Pampered Traveler inn (City Map Loca 
tion Cll). 

37. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the wide alleyway 
between the High Road and the Street of Bells, north 
of Buckle Alley. 

38. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located 
under the House of the Fine Carvers (City Map Loca 
tion C21). 

39. Surface Shaft; entrance located in Spindle Street, just 
south of Selduth Street. 


40. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the lane that paral 
lels Irimar's Walk on the north, west of Theln Lane. 

41. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the alleyway of the 
three trees that opens west off Wall Way, just south of 
Andamaar's Street. 

42. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the alleyway just 
north of Ironpost Street, that opens west off Wall Way, 
at the point where it joins another alley branching to 
the north. 

43. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the trees in a dead 
end alley just north of Costumer's Hall (City Map 
Location Til). 

44. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the mouth of a dead 
end alley opening east off the Street of the Tusks, just 
south of Burnt Wagon Way. 

45. Junction Room (no surface connection); located under 
the alleyway that opens south off of Spendthrift Alley, 
just behind (east of) Thentavva's Boots (City Map 
Location T12). 

46. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the cellar of the 
Unicorn's Horn (City Map Location T15). 

47. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the alley just behind 
(west) of Olmhazan's Jewels (City Map Location C29), 
between the High Road and the Street of Bells. 

48. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the end of a dead 
end alley opening south off Nelnuk's Walk (just north 
of the intersection of Adder Lane and Gut Alley). 

49. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the southwestern 
corner of a dead-end alley that opens off Shesstra's 
Street (just north of Blackstar Lane). 

50. Junction Room (no surface connection); located under 
the westernmost intersection of alleyways off Snail 
Street, north of Shesstra's Street. 

51. Surface Shaft; entrance located in a cul-de-sac opening 
off of Belnimbra's Street, in the block bounded by 
Soothsayer's Way, Snail Street, and Rainrun Street. 

52. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
the westernmost dead-end of Quaff Alley (off the High 
Road). 

53. Surface Shaft; entrance located just east of the Bell 
Tower (City Map Location C46), on Soldiers' Street 
just southeast of Watchmens' Way. 

54. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the intersection of 
alleyways just north of the Three Pearls Nightclub 
(City Map Location D18). 

55. Junction Room (no surface connection); located under 
the wide part of Candle Lane, west off the Way of the 
Dragon. 



56. Junction Room with Surface Shaft; entrance located in 
the westernmost end of a dead-end alley opening south 
off Simples Street. 

57. Surface Shaft; entrance located at the intersection of 
Tsarnen Alley and Burdag Lane. 

58. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the mouth of a dead 
end alley, where it joins Quill Alley between the Wide 
Way and Nethpranter's Street. 

59. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the western end of a 
dead-end forked alley that opens east off Rivon Street, 
north of Spendthrift Alley. 

60. Surface Shaft; entrance located in a 'cul-de-sac opening 
east off the north end of Drovers' Street. 

61. Surface Shaft; entrance located halfway down Beacon 
Street. 

62. Junction Room (no surface connection); under Grocer's 
Lane, where it meets Snake Alley. 

63. Surface Shaft; entrance located in Rednose Alley, just 
east of Saddlers' & Harness-Makers' Hall (City Map 
Location S6). 

64. Surface Shaft; entrance located in a cul-de-sac opening 
off the Rising Ride between Juth Alley and Caravan 
Court. 


Monsters of the Sewers 

There seem to be more creatures in these sewers than one 
could be expect to find food enough to survive; even if 
every person who ventured into these damp, fetid passages 
vanished into the waiting maws of these monsters, some of 
them would go hungry. Connections to the infamous 
"dungeons" of the city-Undermountain and the Dungeon 
of the Crypt-do exist, and it is through these passages that 
such creatures come. DMs are encouraged to invent adven 
tures for any PCs exploring the world beneath Waterdeep, 
and to create new passages, chambers, and features for 
characters to find. 

Sewer Encounter Table for Waterdeep 

ld8 Results of 

1-5: No Encounter 

6: Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild crew (16-35 

(ld20+15) F0 humans) armed with pipes (treat 
as club), hammers, and daggers. 

7: Rogue NPC (level and aims determined by DM) 

8: Special Encounter; roll percentile dice on the 

table on page 63 to determine the encounter: 


65. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the wide part of the 
alley that opens south off Olaim's Cut. 

66. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the wide alley north 
of Coach Street, just west of the High Road. 

67. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the alley just east of 
the former Prestar's Furniture, east of Carter's Way and 
immediately south of Coachlamp Lane. 

68. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the cellar of the 
Spouting Fish (City Map Location S18). 

69. Surface Shaft; entrance located in the wide area of the 
second alleyway north of Bellister's House (City Map 
Location S25). 

70. Surface Shaft; locked entrance located under 
Piergeiron's Palace. (This shaft opens into a cellar 
guarded at all times by five guard members and one 
armar; an alarm on the wall near them is sounded 
whenever they see or hear anything suspicious from 
the sewers below.) 








Roll 

Monster 

No. Appearing 

01-05 

Bat, Large 

3-12 

06 

Broken One, Common 

2-8 

07-08 

Carrion Crawler 

1-2 

09 

Cave Fisher 

1 

10-15 

Centipede* 1-8 

Giant (1-6); Huge (7-9); Megalo- (10-11); Tun 
nel Worm (12) 

16 

Crocodile 

2-12 

17-18 

Deepspawn 

1 

19 

Feyr, Common 

1 

20 

Gorbel 

1 

21 

Greenhag 

1 

22 

Grell, Worker 

1-3 

23 

Gremlin 

1-6 

24-26 

Gulguthra* 1-2 

Gulguthydra (1-2); Neo-Otyugh (3-5); Otyugh 
(6-12) 

27 

Jackalwere 

1-2 

28-30 

Leech, Giant 

3-12 

31 

Living Wall 

1 

32-35 

Lurker 

1-2 

36-38 

Mimic 

1 

39-43 

Mold 1 colony 

Brown (1-6); Russet (7-9); Yellow (10-12) 

44-45 

Mongrelman 

1-20 

46 

Mudman 

1-6 

47 

Obliviax 

1-6 

48-52 

Ooze/Slime/Jelly* 1-3 

Gray Ooze (1-4); Green Slime (5-6); Ochre Jelly 
(7-10); Slithering Trucker (11); Stunjelly (22) 

53-60 

Rat* 3-36 

Rut (1-8); Giant (9-10); Osquip (11-12) 

61-63 

Rot Grubs (in carrion) 

5-20 

64-67 

Sewerm 

1-8 

68-69 

Shambling Mound 

1 

70-73 

Shrieker 

1-4 

74-75 

Sinister 

1-2 

75-80 

Skeleton 

2-20 

81-83 

Slug, Giant 

1 

84-88 

Spider, Giant 

1-4 

90-93 

Stirge 

2-20 

4-95 

Tick, Giant 

1-10 

96-97 

Wererat 

2-12 

98-00 

Zombie 

2-16 


*: roll ld!2 and check the subtables above. 


UwdejwnouN"Ta)Ni ASib 
the Depths BeLotu 

U ndermountain? Ah, yes. A great place to have fun, the 
most famous battlefield in which to earn a reputation as a 
veteran adventurer - and the largest known mass grave in 
Faerun today." 

-Elminster of Shadowdale 

"What is at present the greatest city in the Realms lies atop what 
adventurers deem the greatest underground complex in Faerun. 
Remember what is above, and what is below -for so great is the 
color and wealth of Undermountain, and so great the nuked vil 
lainy and savagery of Waterdeep, that it can be hard indeed to 
tell one from the other when darkness cloaks them both." 

-Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun 

"Undermountain would not be what it is without Waterdeep, and 
Waterdeep would not been what it is without Undermountain. 
The city and the dungeon beneath it are inextricably linked, each 
one influencing the other. Undermountain is but a dark reflection 
of Waterdeep's society stripped of concern for order, propriety, or 
law. Where most can live and thrive in the insanity of commerce 
that is Waterdeep, only a select few can live and thrive in the 
insanity of survival that is Undermountain." 

-Durnan the Wanderer 

"Where Waterdeep is sunshine, life, and laughter, Undermoun 
tain is shadow, death, and despair. Both have their profits, but 
neither place allows them to come without a price." 

- Mirt the Merciless 

Chances are, if you ask anyone in Waterdeep about 
Undermountain, you'll be sat down and given a tale or 
three; whether the tales are meant as warnings or as brag 
gadocio depends on the teller. As you can see from 
above, those that truly know of Undermountain are not 
quick to divulge its secrets, only its portents. Folk 
intrigued by talk of the Realms' most dangerous dungeon 
make it a habit of visiting the Yawning Portal or the 
Bowels of the Earth, where such tales are constant. 

Dungeon Masters can tell what they wish to players as 
local lore and rumor about Undermountain, but keep these 
factors in mind: 

. Among the average Waterdhavians, even the elderly 
know little truth about the place; only those that lie as 
corpses there can do such. 



63 




. Many who talk of it have constructed fanciful tales 
themselves, to boast about themselves; many who say 
they've walked its depths have rarely made any 
encroachment beyond the first level, losing their nerve 
when the stairs growled at them. . . . 

• Those that have truly been within the dungeon's con 
fines and faced its dangers are often reluctant to divulge 
direct information; this comes less from guarding some 
secrets, but from knowing that Halaster rarely maintains 
the status quo of the dungeon for any length of time - 
what was once a kobold lair might now be the domain of 
a baatezu! 

The HteTotiy of HalAsTeR's Halls 

More than a thousand years, Halaster Blackcloak (known also 
as Hilather in historical texts) and his apprentices, the Seven, 
founded a tower far from any civilization; when Halaster's Hold 
was built, Waterdeep was no more than a few farms and shacks 
close to the coast. The tower was soon abandoned by master 
and pupils alike, once they discovered the dungeons beneath 
Mount Waterdeep-the Underhalls of the Melairkyn dwarves, 
a former mithral mine and a long-extinct dwarven clan settle 
ment. Since then, hundreds of drow, duergar, at least a score of 
dragons, and a thousand score adventurers have fallen into the 
devious traps and magics of Halaster's dungeon; the phrase 
"Halaster's Hunt" still means a "berserk raid or wilful slaughter" 
in the North today, after the mad wizard's extermination of the 
drow in the Underhalls. 

Undermountain, by all accounts, is a strange, dangerous 
world where Halaster performed many bizarre experiments 
in magic. Spells, items, and creatures unheard of in the 
sunlit lands exist by the hundreds below, and that is what 
draws folk below. So few return, but that little deters the 
greedy or the proud; it seems all the same to those of the 
dungeon, who deem clanking plate armor as a dinner bell. 

No one today knows for certain if Halaster is still alive 
or not, but those who have been deep within the evil 
place are convinced he still walks its halls, watching from 
every corner and giggling at the suffering of his home's 
invaders. Whether it is Halaster or not, there is some 
thing in the dungeon with a morbid sense of humor: lost 
adventurers can suddenly find a helping hand when all 
seems lost, as a much-needed torch or a magical sword 
falls down from overhead - accompanied, of course, by a 
human hand. Halaster indulges his cruel, whimsical 
humor on the unsuspecting, directing adventurers like 
puppets on a string. 


The Ya(JUKJ)iog PorTaL Afod) 

OTheiz EnjTra wees 

A certain inn near the docks in Waterdeep, the Yawning 
Portal-its proprietor, one Durnan "the Wanderer"-is the 
only publicly-known entrance to Undermountain that can 
be easily reached by the general public. The Portal is a 
rambling, dingy, wooden building that stands two doors 
down from The Empty Keg tavern, right next to Mother 
Salinka's House of Pleasure on Rainrun Street in upper 
Dock Ward. The inn sets squarely on the site of the long 
vanished tower of Halaster Blackcloak. 

The entrance to the dungeon is a large open-topped 
"dry" well 40' in diameter in the taproom, between the bar 
and most of the dining tables. Lit torches are always placed 
in brackets around the outer edge of the well, and an 
immense block-and-tackle hangs above the well; the well 
drops 140 feet into the Entry Chamber of Undermountain. 
Those who wish to enter the dungeon pay one gold piece 
per head to be lowered down the well; they'd best keep one 
gold piece in reserve, since that's what it costs to come 
back up again later. The descending adventurers are usually 
wagered upon and toasted by the inn's patrons as they go 
down to glory or death. The well is lit only by the torches 
at the top, and adventurers must have their own light 
sources to see by once they are lowered more than 50' into 
the well. Once beyond that, they're on their own.. . . 

Sewer Entrances 

Countless connections exist between Waterdeep's sewers 
and the halls of Halaster. Many such links are kept opera 
ble and secret by the various guilds and shady organizations 
that control them. At least one sewer accessway is 
undoubtedly used by the Xanathar and his agents (see 
Chapter Six of Who's Who in Waterdeep). 

The only known "uncontrolled" sewer/dungeon access 
is located on the sewer that parallels the docks north of 
Sail Street. This sewer branches near Mirt's Mansion, 
and runs to link up with other sewers at a junction room 
under a blind alley off Nelnuk's Walk. The entrance is 
reached by dropping down a drain and into the sewers 
beneath "The Slide," a steep alley named for its icy win 
ter purpose. A secret door in the sidewall of the sewer 
tunnel opens into a crawl-passage that runs through rem 
nants of old, forgotten cellars and eventually leads down 
to a dead-end section of tunnel set 6 inches below the 
crawlway. This 3'x3'x6' doorway is stationed above the 
room of the Grim Statue. 




Other Entrances 

The Long Dark Stair links Undermountain with an oubli 
ette (covered garbage-pit) in the alley behind the Blushing 
Nymph, a festhall on the north side of Rainrun Street. 
Going west from The Yawning Portal across Cook Street, 
the Nymph is the second building from the northwest cor 
ner of Cook and Rainrun Streets. The backyard is fre 
quented by cats and the occasional youth tossing out 
garbage from the Nymph by day -and by drunks ejected 
from the Nymph by night. 

In the past few years, Halaster has grown bored. So, 
like many kidnapers and slavers, Halaster has taken to 
pulling people directly out of Waterdeep without warn 
ing via magical mirror-gates. Somehow activating the 
magic through any reflective surface, the mirror-gates 
take any beings (and their gear) that touch the mirrors 
elsewhere without mishap. Such travel is always a one 
way affair, but if a mirror-gate is used, it will send others 
to that destination for 1 turn. Thereafter, the DM 
should roll each turn to see if the destination changes (8 
or greater on a ldlO roll). 

For more information on Undermountain, seek out the 
Ruins of Undermountain boxed sets. 

The Rat Hflls 

T his area was once a barren, windswept pebble beach, 
and waves crashed and rolled endlessly in the shal 
lows. For almost a mile out to sea, the seabed is still five 
feet or fewer from the surface of the water. Of old, ships 
used to beach here for repairs, and lumber barges pulled up 
at this spot for loading. As Waterdeep became rich enough 
to suffer raiding, its people began to see this easy landing- 
place as a danger to their safety-and a free alternative to 
Waterdeep's harbor. 

A rough shanty town came into being here, and the 
Shadow Thieves moved to control it. The Lords saw the 
danger, and acted swiftly, calling the guard out in force. 
They drove the inhabitants of "the Beach" out, slaughter 
ing those who resisted, and set fire to all that would bum. 
The Guard then camped on the spot until the fires had 
died down, keeping the area clear with strong patrols. 
Under their protection, Waterdeep's citizens began to bring 
its garbage hither in wagon loads, rather than burning it 
directly outside the city walls. 


Today, this task is done by the Dungsweepers' Guild. 
After a few years, the accumulated garbage piles became 
commonly known as the Rat Hills. At its largest, the 
Rat Hills grew to cover an area almost four miles in 
length and up to a mile in width-hills of piled, rotting 
garbage that poison the shallows and extend along the 
entire beach area, effectively barring any hostile land 
ings. Now, after the smoke and fire of the Rat Hills Con 
flagration, they are reduced to under two miles in length 
and a quarter of a mile in width. The guard patrols the 
nearby trade road, and guards the daily convoy of 
Dungsweepers' Guild garbage wagons, but otherwise 
leaves the Rat Hills alone. 

As the name suggests, these tangled hills are infested 
with rats. Scrub trees and gnarled creepers are every 
where. The reek is indescribable, and foils all attempts 
to track by scent, or to smell anything but the strongest 
perfume. Fresh garbage is brought daily, and the Hills are 
growing by almost half an acre per year. The inhabitant 
monsters make it too dangerous for dungsweepers to 
carry garbage into the interior, and fresh garbage is sim 
ply piled at the outer edge of the Hills daily; now, even 
with many of the bolder creatures scattered due to the 
fires, the Rat Hills are dangerous and a relative haven 
for many creatures. 

Crc.eaTurc.es of the Rat Hills 

Several attacks over the years, especially this year with 
the fires driving many monsters out, have made the 
Lords strengthen the guard presence around the Rat 
Hills at night. One can expect to see a guard contingent 
of twenty mounted men-at-arms or more, armed with 
lances, heavy crossbows, and personal arms; they are 
always accompanied by at least two priests (of Torm) 
and a hired wizard (who usually brings an apprentice 
along "for free"). 

The Rat Hills are known to be inhabited by many types 
of undead creatures, including sea zombies and poltergeists 
(see the CATACOMBS(tm) Solo Quest book Knight of the 
Living Dead for examples). Other confirmed creatures spot 
ted over the years include kobolds, lizard men, beholders, 
will o' wisps, and even some monstrous gulguthras. DMs 
can devise monster encounters of their own for the Rat 
Hills, using all sorts of strange creatures that could not 
otherwise realistically be found near the City of Splendors, 
or use the following table. 








Rat Hills Random Encounter Table 

(D20) Roll Encounter 

1 2-12 Land Lampreys 

2 1 Mimic 

3 1-6 Skeletons 

4 5-20 Rot Grubs (in carrion) 

5 1 Otyugh 

6 1-4 Jackalweres 

7 4-16 Wild Dogs 

8 4-24 Wererats 

9 5-50 Giant Rats 

10 2-24 Giant Centipedes 

11 2-20 Animal Skeletons 

12 1-12 Huge Spiders 

13 1-2 Nyth 

14 1-4 Leucrotta 

15 1 Shambling Mound 

16 2-12 Poisonous Frogs 

17 1-12 Zombies (or 2-8 Sea Zombies) 

18 1 Neo-Otyugh 

19 1 Catoblepas 

20 Special Encounter: DM's choice 

With the Rat Hills Conflagration, many of the monsters 
have been dispersed from the interior parts of the Hills 
closest to the city. Various changes are evident throughout 
the current timeline and power group activities listed in all 
the books of this boxed set. DMs should not, however, 
believe that this neutralizes the dangers of the Rat Hills; on 
the contrary, those that do remain there will be all the 
more wary about being discovered and exposed, or they will 
simply be hungrier. 

All manner of marine horrors still lurk in the shallows. 
Lacedons are known to overwhelm even giant gar, who 
sometimes drift into the shallows in search of prey. There 
are said to be deep pools and flooded beast-tunnels in the 
tainted waters, where oceangoing dangers lurk. Even sim 
ple contact with the water (see Tainted Dangers, below) 
has its perils. 

TatwTed DaMgeras 

Immersion or excessive skin contact with the dark, evil 
smelling water of the Rat Hills (both rainwater pools in 
the interior, and in the coastal shallows) carries a 20% 
base chance of communicating a disease. Such an expo 
sure check must be made once for each such contact (or 
once per turn of prolonged contact, such as swimming in 
the shallows, or bathing in a pool). Ingesting any water 


carries a 35% chance of disease. An exposure check 
should be made for each ingestion. Dilution with clean 
water or wine may better chances by half or even decrease 
them further; boiling the water reduces disease chances in 
all cases to 5% per contact. 

Dry land contact with the garbage of the Rat Hills (and 
the many insects that swarm in the fetid air above) carries 
its own peril: a 5% chance of disease. An exposure check 
should be made once per day in which a being is in the 
garbage-strewn interior of the Rat Hills; a character who 
enters and leaves the Hills a dozen times in a day will suffer 
only one check. If the garbage is excessively disturbed (by 
digging, explosive spell casting, fire, or a violent physical 
fight), all creatures in the vicinity must make an extra, 
immediate exposure check (one per disturbance). Chances 
of contracting disease are not cumulative. 

Eating the meat of any creature inhabiting the Rat Hills 
carries a 60% chance of communicating disease (halved if 
the meat is cooked). 

Effects of disease are left to the DM. The most common 
known affliction in the Rat Hills is "darkrot" disease. 

Darkrot causes large black patches to form on a victim's 
skin, in 1-2 days. These persist for 2dl2 days. The victim's 
breathing becomes noisy (hissing) and labored, and 2d4 hit 
points per day are lost, until the victim is at half of its nor 
mal hit points. Charisma drops by 6 points, as the eyes 
bulge, hair begins to fall out, and the black patches begin 
to emit a foul odor. Strength and Constitution scores drop 
by 1 point per day until they reach minimums of 3 for each 
score. Normal activity soon becomes impossible; bed rest 
and quarantine are advisable. The disease remains conta 
gious until the spots clear up. 

Seven days into the affliction, a system shock roll must be 
made (at a character's regular Constitution score, not the 
current one). If this succeeds, the disease runs its course 
and the character recovers. 

If it fails, the victim loses 4d4 hit points that day, and 
2d6 points are lost the next day. Thereafter, 2d4 points are 
lost each day. Death occurs at 0 hit points, although cure 
disease will end the affliction in 4d4 hours, and healing 
spells have their normal effectiveness against hit point loss. 

If the victim survives the disease, the spots grow smaller 
and eventually disappear (in ldl2 days), as the disease 
passes. Lost ability points and hit points then return at a 
rate of ld4 each per day (assuming complete rest). 




CbapTeR Five.* 
The L onbs of 
WaT enfbeep 

he Lords exist at the sufferance of their consciences and the goodwill of the peo 
ple of the Free City of Waterdeep. Though their faces are hidden, their hearts 
are ever true to the city's welfare. All but the Open Lord are unknown, so to 
better be the Everyman of the city, to represent and govern all people equally, 
to have no allegiance save to the city. By cloaking its rulers in secrecy, the city 
helps rule itself, for its rulers walk among you, ever hidden and watchful; whether out of fear or 
respect, the citizens follow Lords' Rule." 

- Lhestyn, Open Lord of Waterdeep (circa 280 Northreckoning) 

The Lords' HisTorzy 

T he Lords have existed, with only one major interruption of their reign, as the rulers 
of the Free City of Waterdeep for 335 years. Founded by the aged Ahghairon the 
Mage, the Lords have always been shrouded in secrecy, their masks and cloaks covering 
any details that could identify them. By keeping the identities of the Lords of the city con 
fidential, Ahghairon made them of equal power with himself and guaranteed that they 
would be "free of coercion by any, and drawn from all walks of life within our fair city." 

Over the years, there have been between 50 and 80 Lords of Waterdeep; of that 
number, the citizens of Waterdeep have truly known only four of them, the Open Lords 
who sat unmasked before the people: Ahghairon the Mage, Baeron, Lhestyn the 
Masked Lady, and Piergeiron the Paladinson. The Lords have, over the years, consisted 
of men and women from all the various trades and skills of Waterdeep: merchant, 
noble, wizard, warrior, priest, shipwright, plumber, blacksmith, chimney sweep, baker, 
brewer, dungsweeper, etc. While most of the city assumes the Lords are human, some of 
the Lords have been elves and half-elves, and one halfling now sits among them; no 
dwarves have ever accepted the mantle of a Lord. 

Of the august membership, only one Lord-now nearly forgotten, but once known as 
Kerrigan the Arcanist-ever abused his power, and paid the price for his treason. Kerri 
gan, through various subterfuges and hired agents, killed three of his fellow Lords before 
Ahghairon discovered his treason. A spell battle erupted between the two, which 
crossed the city and ended in Southern Ward with the death of Kerrigan. When he fell, 
Ahghairon buried his remains on the spot and cursed him "to be remembered only as a 
traitor and to lie in the dust and never have stone to decorate your passing." His final 
resting spot is the unpaved Kerrigan's Court in Adventurers' Quarter, where any stones 
larger than pebbles that touch the ground fly up again to strike the person placing them 
there; numerous attempts were made decades ago to remove the curse, but many of the 
city preferred to not disturb this still-active legacy of Ahghairon, the city's founder. 
Today, the Lords' membership is even more secretive and larger than ever before. 


m 

















After the Knights of the Shield managed to uncover the 
identities of at least three Lords and nearly bring Water- 
deep to its knees, Piergeiron and Khelben decided to 
strengthen their ranks late in the year 332 NR (1364 DR). 
The action kept absolutely secret to ensure that their ranks 
could never again be undermined or discovered by their 
enemies, the Lords increased their membership to 20 mem 
bers. The city at large is unaware that four more Lords walk 
among them. When the Lords are collected for Shieldmeet 
Council, only 16 are present, allowing four Lords to stand 
hidden in the city, ready for any troubles. . . . 

The Lords' RosTerz 

A s far as the populace is concerned, Waterdeep is 
presently governed by 16 Lords of Waterdeep, who 
are seen by the general populace only when sitting in the 
Lord's Court or when the Lords' Rule is reaffirmed each 
Shieldmeet. Their individual identities are always con 
cealed by identical masks and robes. It is rare indeed for 
more than seven Lords to sit in Court on a given occasion 
save for the Shieldmeet Council. 

This democratic council has a largely secret membership. 
Piergeiron "the Paladinson," Warden of Waterdeep (com 
mander of the guard). Overmaster of the Guilds, and Com 
mander of the Watch is the Open Lord of Waterdeep, the 
only Lord whose face is exposed and known to the public. 
The paladin sits in his golden-spired palace conducting the 
city's diplomatic and legal business. Among the citizens, it 
is generally agreed that the archmage Khelben "Blackstaff" 
Arunsun is also of the Lords (see "And Now, the News" in 
Chapter Two), but no one who knows the identities of the 
other Lords for certain has made them public knowledge. 
One hears the names Mirt, Larissa, and Texter mentioned 
as prospects. 

DMs are encouraged to develop their own Lords - eight 
are left undescribed here, although one should bear in 
mind that any Lords created should be of fairly low public 
profile (i.e. should not be noble, and cannot be guild mas 
ters), and must be of essentially good alignment (probably 
neutral, or perhaps lawful) to fit the established character 
of the council, which already has its share of chaotic good 
members, notably Mirt. This will allow DMs to use Lords 
"behind the scenes" to influence events in Waterdeep, foil 
ing any players who learn the identities of the Lords given 
here, and allow DMs some "elbow room" for future modifi 
cations that a completely open and set membership would 
not permit allow (and the mystery adds to the fun). 


The penalty for impersonating a Lord is instant death. 
Should a Lord be about the city in full regalia, officers of 
the guard or watch are dispatched to the Palace to notify 
Piergeiron. The Lords all know each other, and Piergeiron 
can demand that they unmask to him at any time (in 
secret; refusal to unmask before the Open Lord is itself a 
capital offense). Should anyone in Lord's attire be slain, 
speak with dead magics are employed later to find out why 
such a masquerade was performed. On the sly, a number of 
people, including Lucia Thione of the Knights of the 
Shield, have verbally claimed to be Lords; this is punish 
able by death as well, but only if the perpetrator is caught 
in the lie. 

KbeUbew "BLacksTaff" Aruwsuw 

Game Information: LN(G) hm W27; DEX 16, CON 16, 
INT 18, WIS 16. 

Description: Khelben appears as a 6-foot-tall, well-mus 
cled, bearded man with a receding hairline, black hair 
shot through with silver (a distinctive silver wedge in 
the center of his beard), and a distinguished manner. He 
is gravely wise, but not pompous or humorless; he even 
takes a gruff, fatherly view towards young wizards he 
might recruit into the service of the Harpers. 

Notes: Khelben is the most powerful and influential arch 
mage of the Sword Coast, and is one of the rulers of 
Waterdeep. A senior member of the Harpers, and instru 
mental in keeping the Lords' Alliance (of Silverymoon, 
Sundabar, Neverwinter, and other "good" cities of the 
North, with Waterdeep) intact, Khelben is always work 
ing to influence this or that occurrence or trend, looking 
years ahead. He is a forester and painter, and has tutored 
many mages of note including Malchor Harpell, Laeral, 
Nain, and Savengriff. His most recent (and youngest) 
apprentice was a child named Gemidan, "with the most 
remarkable intuitive grasp of magic I've seen in years." 
He is also the definitive expert in the history, lore, and 
traditions of magic as practiced by humans in the North 
since the rise from barbarism. 

It is suggested that DMs adjust Khelben's level 
upwards to at least ten levels above the strongest PC, 
for use in humbling "runaway" characters. Khelben, 
without a doubt, has the greatest cache of magical 
items ever seen on the Sword Coast, as well as the 
knowledge of over 700 spells, all of which he can rely 
on if he gets into trouble. Should he need it, he can 
always call on Malchor, Laeral, Nain, and Savengriff 
for aid by sending. 




BrUm The ScuoR<3masTeR 

Game Information: NG hm F13; STR 16, WIS 17. 

Description: A bald man with all his gray-streaked black 
hair in his beard, Brian still carries a powerful build, 
thanks to his work at the forge and his 12 years as a 
member and armar of the city guard. His gray eyes are 
no longer hidden behind constant scowls. 

Notes: Brian "the Swordmaster" is a smith of skill. His 
nickname is a title of expertise in his craft, although he 
has gone beyond his swordsmith skills, and is now a 
master armorer-Brian is as skilled a smith as humanly 
possible, able to craft items of lasting beauty, durability, 
and exquisite workmanship. Brian spends most of his 
time at his forge, and is known for his simple, direct way 
of looking at things. Brian and "Kitten" are the most 
practical of the Lords, followed by Mirt, Durnan, and 
Nindil, capable of seeing weak points in plans, and fore 
seeing problems long before they occur. 

CaladoRw 

Game Information: NG hm F12; STR 16, DEX 17. 

Description: Young, strong Caladorn stands 6' tall and is 
one of the most elegant fighters ever seen in the Field of 
Triumph. He wears his brown hair short and is clean 
shaven, with a prominent cleft in his chin. Caladorn is 
young, sardonic, very perceptive and intelligent, and 
fun-loving when he can find an occasion to abandon his 
customary serious resolve, in private. 

Notes: Caladorn, a gallant of Waterdeep, has chosen to 
drop his family name of Cassalanter until he "does 
something worthy of it," as he has told his father Ohrl, 
current Lord of house Cassalanter. This allows Caladorn 
to retain the privileges of his birth, and be gracefully 
free of his father's direct authority. Ohrl is unaware that 
his son is a Lord of Waterdeep. 

For two years, Caladorn stepped down from the Lords 
to wander the Sword Coast and recover from a broken 
heart; he fell in love with Lady Lucia Thione, and was 
merely a pawn in her bid to disrupt the Lords' Rule. For 
the past year, after returning to the city, he has accom 
panied the city's raker ship crews into battle; the raker 
captains did not know that their passenger was a Lord, 
only that he was a bored young noble who could lend 
them an extra swordarm. Khelben, Durnan, and Mirt 
view Caladorn as one of the important Lords who will 
carry on after they are gone, although they view his 
noble background as a handicap to be overcome before 


he will be truly suitable for such a task. As Mirt puts it, 
"too often that lad thinks like the blueblood he is - 
arrogant, self-assured, knows the place for everything 
and everyone-and dead wrong. A little dose of the real 
world'd do him all the good, 't would." 

Durkjaw 

Game Information: NG hm F18; STR 18(34), CON 17, 
WIS 16. 

Description: Durnan, a burly, russet-haired, middle-aged 
man, is a gruff, close-mouthed, prudent man who hates 
unfairness and injustice, but is tolerant of the differing 
interests of others, until they draw a weapon in his inn, 
whereupon he punishes them severely on the spot. 

Notes: Durnan "the Wanderer" is a retired fighter who 
now runs the Yawning Portal inn (which contains a 
shaft leading down into Undermountain). Durnan and 
Mirt are old friends, once companions in adventure. 
Many years before he met Mirt, Durnan was a solitary 
wanderer, who traveled the North extensively. 

Durnan was born somewhere in the remote North, and 
especially hates hobgoblins. Mirt believes that Durnan's 
family and friends were slain by hobgoblins, leaving Dur 
nan homeless when he was a child, but this is no more 







than a guess; Durnan won't talk of such things. When 
Durnan doesn't want to answer a question, he simply looks 
at the questioner with a calm, expressionless face and says 
nothing. He shouts in battle, but rarely gets into verbal 
arguments, retreating instead into silence. 

Nihidil MVbuck 

Notes: Nindil is described in Chapter Five of the Adven 
turer's Guide and Chapter One of Secrets of the City. As 
the most recently appointed Lord, he tends not to argue 
much with his fellows, unless he feels the demihumans 
of the city are being treated unfairly. He often avoids 
discussions with the prejudiced Sammereza. 

M)rT the MoMe\?leMdeR 

Game Information: CG hm F11/T7; STR 17, WIS 18. 

Description: A fat, casual, hard-drinking man, coarse-man 
nered and gruff, Mirt is often seen wheezing about from 
tavern to tavern in food-stained clothing. Mirt is actu 
ally one of the most shrewd Lords of Waterdeep, even if 
secretly romantic and soft-hearted. 

Notes: Mirt "the Moneylender" is a very rich man. He was 
once a successful mercenary general of the North and 
Sword Coast lands, Mirt "the Merciless." Mirt is one of 
the most influential Lords, well-loved by his fellows 


(even the paladins). He is wise in tactics and in judging 
the characters of beings of all races and creeds. Mirt's 
constant companion is the young fighter Asper, whom 
he once rescued as an infant from a sacked city, and 
later married; she is Mirt's chief agent in the city. 

Mirt's Mansion (City Map Location C52) rests on the 
southern slope of Mount Waterdeep in Castle Ward. 
Mirt practices his moneylending trade from here when 
in the city (mornings only). It is a secure, fortress-like 
home with many guards, both mortal and magical. 

Larissa NeaThaL 

Game Information: NG hf F6; CON 16, CHA 18. 

Description: Larissa is a human chameleon. With cosmet 
ics and minor magics (from Khelben and Laeral), she 
changes her hair style and color (and even her eye 
color!) to match her extravagant, provocative clothes. 
Her only constant feature is her distinctive necklace, a 
gold filigree phoenix rising from a cluster of inset rubies. 

Notes: Larissa Neathal is a courtesan of Waterdeep who 
plays a giggling, empty-headed sex-kitten with all the 
visiting envoys and diplomats she has time for, and gath 
ers all the information for the Lords that she can this 
way. When weary or upset, however, she turns to Dur 
nan for comfort. Her capacity for court parties is leg 
endary, and she can dance all day and all night if 
necessary, without apparent ill effects. 

P)eRge)ROh3 the PaLa&iwsom 

Game Information: LG hm Pall6; STR 17, WIS 16, CHA 17. 

Description: Piergeiron the Paladinson is a tall, muscular, 
handsome man, his hair only slightly graying at the tem 
ples though he is well past 50 winters. Piergeiron is the 
most quietly confident man one could meet, and his 
poise and patience have served him well with his duties 
inside and outside the city. 

Notes: Piergeiron is the only known Lord of Waterdeep, 
and speaks for all the Lords. He is also the City of 
Splendors' chief diplomat to foreign powers and its chief 
defender, being both Commander of the Watch and 
Warden (commander) of the Guard. As Overmaster of 
the Guilds, he has the authority to override guild law, 
and his decree is the only absolute law in this city of 
interpretation and evasion. As such, he is very safe from 
Waterdhavians - and his life is threatened by foreign 
powers, such as Amn, Calimshan, and Luskan, for the 
same reason. He is so above reproach, and so able in his 
administration and justice, that the city flourishes. 






Waterdhavians could not conceive of a better man to be 
the Open Lord of the city; those wishing the city ill 
want to remove him if at all possible. 

Piergeiron speaks seldom, and slowly; as a result, he is 
sometimes snidely known as "the Thickskull," but never 
to his face. He is not stupid, but often pretends to be, to 
draw others out into admissions they might not make 
otherwise. His surname comes from his father Athar, 
"The Shining Knight," The Arm of Tyr, who was a very 
famous paladin adventurer of the North. 

"KnTehj" NymAK-A Scheiizoyo 

Game Information: NG hf Til; CON 16, DEX 18. 

Description: Nymara Scheiron-known as "Kitten"-is an 
intensely secret person; few people, even among the Lords, 
know the full name of this tousle-haired, fierce female. She 
has a savage temper, and her lush, strong figure belies her 
years. Nymara can appear as a stunning, beautiful lady of 
high station if she wishes to do so (very rare), but is more 
often to be found heavily perfumed and made-up, dressed 
provocatively and lounging in a Dock Ward alley or tav 
ern. In less distinct garb, she is an expert at following peo 
ple without being noticed, and is familiar with the sewers 
of the city and the roofs in many districts, as faster and less 
crowded highways than the open streets. 

Notes: "Kitten" is a hard-bitten entertainer and sometime- 
thief of Waterdeep's docks, who was recruited by Mirt 
and Khelben 20 years ago to the Lords. It is her practi 
cality that influences the details of many an action of 
the Lords. She knows how this or that decree will 
appear to, and work among, the common folk. "Kitten" 
once fought an evil demigod (Iyachtu Xvim, the son of 
Bane) toe-to-toe with blades when a summoning by a 
company of adventurers went awry. 

She is servile to no one. She regards Mirt, Durnan, 
Larissa, and Khelben as her dear friends, and delights in 
relaxing with them on a night when she is not on the 
streets or poking about in the goods of this or that suspi 
cious visitor to the city. Kitten will not take a copper piece 
from her fellow Lords, fiercely rejecting any gifts or charity. 

SfimmeRezA SuLpbow'Ds 

Game Information: DM's Choice. 

Description: Originally a native of Calimshan, Sammereza 
has been a citizen of Waterdeep for over 30 years, yet he 
has not changed his manner of clothing. He still wears 
many layers of silks and various extravagant robes (he 


stays warm with a ring of warmth); he favors red and pur 
ple silks. His brown skin and hair are meticulously 
groomed, and his rare purple eyes are quite hypnotic. 

Notes: Sammereza Sulphontis is a slightly slimmer, slightly 
younger, and far more polished and mannered version of 
Mirt. This tireless traveling merchant is seldom to be found 
within the city walls. He will sell anything to anyone, buy 
almost anything from anyone, and trade most things with 
most people, as Durnan once put it. As this sly, witty, iron- 
nerved, sometimes oily wheeler-dealer makes his way about 
the Realms, dealing in anything from loads of fresh manure 
to slaves (although he neglects to inform Tex ter and 
Piergeiron of this latter trade good), his eyes miss little. 
Much of the Lords' information about the South and the 
lands east of the Inner Sea comes from Sammereza, who is 
known to have some means of teleporting himself back to 
Waterdeep in time of danger or when news is urgent. 

TeyTeiz 

Game Information: LG hm Pall9; STR 18(09), CHA 17. 

Description: His face ruddy and lined, Texter wears a stern, 
distinguished visage of piety and duty, his face rarely 
cracking a smile beneath his brown moustache. 





71 



7 2 


Notes: Texter is a paladin, like Piergeiron, a follower of Tyr. 
Unlike Piergeiron, Texter has little patience for ceremony, 
and prefers to be out and about doing things, such as lead 
ing road and ship patrols around Waterdeep tirelessly. His 
vigilance has prevented the City of Splendors from being 
surprised by attacking enemies on several occasions. 

Every so often, Texter feels he has to renew his faith and 
dedication to Tyr (especially of late, feeling less than faith 
ful in light of all the Tyrite zealots cropping up in the city); 
he does so by solitary rides into the Northern wilderness, 
where he singlehandedly battles any ores, trolls, or other 
evil creatures he encounters, and inspects firsthand condi 
tions in the North. Texter is almost fearless, but he is not 
stupid. He will consider attacking twelve ores single- 
handed to be fair odds, but will retreat before an ore horde 
to warn the city, rather then charging to attack. 

Dan)Lo TbaMM 

Game Information: CG(N) hm Multi -F3/W9/B13; STR 
16, DEX 17, INT 18, WIS 16, CHA 18. 

Description: Danilo is in his early 30s, his six-foot frame 
amply muscled in an elegant (but strong) dancer's figure. 
His flaxen hair is always carefully styled, and his clothes 
are always the height of fashion (and expense). His gray 



eyes can seem both serious and mischievous in one short 
exchange. Danilo is never without his gold pendant (of 
his family seal) and his green leather bug of holding, in 
which he now hides his Lord's attire. 

Notes: A fashion plate and dilettante of Waterdeep's 
young nobles, Danilo has played the fop for years, caus 
ing many still to underestimate him and believe him an 
idiot, rather than the skilled adventurer he is. His abili 
ties to mix magic and music are impressive, even to his 
former tutor, Khelben Arunsun. 

Thanks to the magics of an elven artifact and a trace of 
elven blood in his ancestry (and not a little aid from the 
goddess Mystra), Danilo Thann became the only human 
to master the elfsong, a powerful elven talent that taps 
magic through song (and normally overwhelms or destroys 
nonelves who attempt it). With it, he managed to save 
Waterdeep and the Lords from ruin by deactivating some 
powerful ancient bards' magic running rampant across the 
Realms. This also gained him his seat among the Lords; 
one of his first successful projects undertaken as a Lord was 
the reestablishment of the bards' college of Waterdeep, 
which is now a rousing success. 

While his aid in uncovering the plot of the Knights of 
the Shield was much appreciated, the other Lords were 
more impressed by Danilo's ability to work with dis 
parate people to reach his goals; few among the Lords 
could even claim the ability to work with Elaith 
Craulnobur without being tempted to run him through! 
In addition, Danilo's skills in magic, and his close ties to 
the Lords through Khelben make him, like Caladorn, 
one of the next generation of Lords who show much 
promise-though Mirt still wishes he were a commoner 
rather than "another fussy blue-blood." 

The Lords' Magic 

B elow are the magical items and artifacts that are 
wholly and exclusively for the use of the Lords of 
Waterdeep. Khelben had a hand in creating much of the 
magic surrounding the Lords and their city. Many of the 
items' secrets have been limited to one or two special agents 
in Waterdeep at one time. Currently, only Khelben and 
Laeral know all the secrets involved in creating the Lords' 
Effects; rumors about the city link the Helms and masks of 
the Lords with some lost items once common in the lands of 
Netheril. Each Lord of Waterdeep has two of each of these 
items; one of each is kept personally, while the second is 






kept in safe storage within a tower in the Palace of Water- 
deep (to be retrieved by an agent or another Lord, should 
anything happen to the other Effects). 

The Lords' Effects 

Lord's Amulet: These light, gold medallions on silver chains 
are worn under the clothes of a Lord; each is stamped with 
the symbol of the particular Lord's deity (so people will 
not think it anything other than a religious symbol). The 
Lord's Amulet acts as an amulet of proof against detection 
and location. It also allows the wearer to enter certain areas 
of the city (in the City of the Dead, the Palace, the Plinth, 
etc.), speak a command word, and activate invisible gates 
set by Khelben that can only be activated by these 
amulets, preventing pursuit. 

Lord's Helm: The enchanted helms, which are worn by the 
Lords when they appear in public, support their featureless 
masks. The wearer is protected against divination spells and 
other mind-affecting powers, including ESP and detect lie. A 
Lord's thoughts and alignment are fully obscured by the 
helm, and a Lord's voice is altered to a deep hollow baritone. 
Lord's Rings: Khelben provides a number of magical rings 
for the Lords, though these are the most common: 

• Ring of poison resistance: The wearer of this ring is 100% 
immune to any poisons (though acids still affect the 
wearer normally). 

• Ring of sending: Turning the gem on this ring causes a 
special sending to be activated, and both Khelben and 
Piergeiron receive a magical message from a ring-bearer. 

• Ring of teleportation: Twisting the gem in this ring allows 
the bearer to teleport from any location in the Realms 
to a preset location. (Danilo's ring, for example, sends 
him to Blackstaff Tower.) 

Lord's Robes: The black robes of the Lords disguise body 
shape and height within their folds, and a robe-gener 
ated illusion makes all the Lords seem six feet tall and of 
indeterminate sex. 

The WaEktwg Statues 

The Walking Statues of Waterdeep are stone golems cre 
ated by Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, and controlled only 
by Piergeiron or the Archmage of Waterdeep himself; they 
are intended for use in defending the city against any 
attack that breaches a city gate, to "hold the gap." Rumor 
holds (correctly) that eight of these pieces of statuary are 
stored, in working order, about the city; two are at the base 
of the Cliffwatch, one is placed on Gull Leap, two others 
are within Mount Waterdeep (to defend the Castle and the 


Palace), and the others are magically hidden beneath 
Northgate, River Gate, and South Gate. 

Each grey granite statue stands 90 feet tall, and looks like a 
tall, regal human with an impassive face. It has Armor Class 1, 
a movement rate of 40, 140 hit points, and attacks for 6-60 
points of damage or 3 points of structural damage per round; 
the walking statues are harmed only by +3 or greater magical 
weapons, and are affected by spells as a stone golem. 

The Loribs' AgewTs 

W henever serious threats lurk on the horizon for the 
City of Splendors, the Lords often try to alleviate 
them before they disturb the relative peace. To do so, they 
act through agents to get the job done; to act on their own 
could compromise their identities as Lords. Besides, some 
work that needs doing is not always best to do oneself. . . . 

foizce Gney 

Whenever troubles grow beyond the power to be handled 
by the watch or the guard without significant loss of life, 
Piergeiron and the Lords can mobilize Force Grey, an elite 
cadre of loyal, powerful Waterdhavians able to match or 
exceed the power of the offenders at large. The group is 
headed by Khelben Arunsun, but only when the city faces 
its most dire threats. The current membership of Force 
Grey, in addition to 2-12 warriors of 7th level or greater, 
consists of a number of illustrious Northern adventurers. 

Harshnag (CG frost giant male): A frost giant exiled from his 
people due to overly good tendencies, Harshnag lives on 
Mount Sar just outside the city; his cave is connected via 
a gate to Blackstaff Tower, and he is magically called, 
should his raw muscle power be needed for Force Grey. 
Hrusse of Assuran (LN hm P15 of Assuran; STR 17, WIS 
16): A vengeful, intense priest from the Inner Sea lands of 
Unther, Hrusse worships Assuran, the god of revenge 
(known here as Hoar the Doombringer). Taking the city's 
plight as his own when Hrusse is called to duty, any slight 
or insult or damage to Waterdeep or its Lords is never 
forgotten until properly avenged "in the eyes of Assuran." 
Carolyas Idogyr (LG hef W7; DEX 18, INT 17, CHA 18): 
Of late, this young watch-wizard worked her way up 
through the ranks and joined Force Grey rather than 
retire to a less active life. Though she and Khelben 
know each other (her uncle Gamalon is a friend of the 
Blackstaff), Carolyas thinks Khelben is too conservative 
in his use of magic, and they disagree on this often. 


Jardwim (NG hm R17; STR 17, CON 16): The official 
leader of the group, Jardwim is a ruthless, highly focused 
individual who believes if problems are harsh enough to 
merit calling in Force Grey, any resistance met by the 
group should be answered in lethal force. Jardwim hates 
to lose or even be fooled by anything; when this stocky 
ranger puts his concentration to his task, very little 
escapes him. He often travels with two blink dogs. 
Maliantor (NG hf Wll; DEX 18, INT 16): A former pupil 
of Khelben Arunsun, Maliantor is often referred to as 
"Blackstaff's Eyes," and is rumored to be one of his main 
agents in addition to her work with Force Grey. She 
often prepares scrolls with the spells needed to contain 
the problems she faces in battle. 

Red Sashes 

This mysterious group of vigilantes are experts at intrigue 
and hiding and locating wanted persons; while they do not 
wear red sashes, they tie up their targets with them and 
leave them on the Palace steps for the watch. Their mem 
bers are unknown to all but their head, known only as "the 
One," and they appear to work in opposition to the Lords 
(though they secretly do the Lords' work for them), and 
thus are often hired by other groups (like the Shadow 
Thieves) to work against the Lords. Durnan is "the One," 
the secret leader of the Red Sashes, though only Khelben, 
Kitten, Laeral, Mirt, Nindil (who sometimes works with 
the Red Sashes), and Sammereza are aware of this. This 
allows Durnan to operate in ways unapproved by the pal 
adins among the Lords, and produces good results. The 
known members are the following people: 

Baklin (LN dm F7; STR 17, CON 19): the dwarven bar- 
keep of the Quaffing Quaggoth (City Map Location 
C53), and the Red Sashes' newest recruit; 

Surrolph Hlakken (CG hm FO): the horse dealer at 
Hlakken Stables (City Map Location S17), and chief 
information gatherer for the Sashes; 

Naneatha Lhaurilstar (NG hf T4; DEX 17): a courtesan of 
the Palace with her own domicile (City Map Location 
C45), and one of two members who know the Red 
Sashes work for Durnan (though not for the Lords); 
Aletha and Jhoysil Samprava (CG hf T2; STR 16) (CG hf 
F3; DEX 17, INT 16): twin sisters and courtesans at the 
Purple Palace (City Map Location D25); 

Thurve Thentawa (CN hm FO; WIS 18): cobbler (his 
shop is at City Map Location T12) and source of infor 
mation on any illegal guild activities; 



Jurisk Ulhammond (CG hm F5; STR 17): a moneylender 
and a member who knows the Sashes work for Durnan 
(but doesn't know of the Lords' link); and 

"Red" Hlintas Urtel (N hm F8; STR 18(75), CON 18, 
INT 16): a dockhand found most often at the Sleeping 
Snake (City Map Location D41) in the evenings and 
the main arm-breaker of the group. 

lN)6epeK)6eN)T Lords' AgewTs 

Asper (CG hf F7; DEX 17, CHA 16): Asper is a lithe, 
petite beauty, soft-spoken yet merry, and a great contrast 
to her voluminous husband, Mirt. She worships Tymora, 
and often appears to take unnecessary risks to try her 
luck when adventuring with Mirt or Force Grey. 

Laeral (CG hf W25; DEX 18, INT 18): The Lady Mage of 
Waterdeep and the unofficial Lady Arunsun, Laeral is one 
of the most formidable spellcasters in the city. Former 
leader of the adventuring group the Nine, Laeral has accli 
mated herself well to the social intrigues and the power 
plays of Waterdeep. Being slightly more forthright than 
the Blackstaff, she attends to matters of a less principled 
nature than her mate, in Waterdeep, Skullport, and the 
entire Realms. 



Chapter S)y: 

Laua & Onben. 

have sworn to uphold the laws and the edicts of the Lords of the city. For much 
of my life, I've dedicated myself to that goal of keeping the peace, and I'm 
happy with that. In Waterdeep, if wrong is being done or the spirit of the law is 
broken, the situation will be corrected by me and by the watch, worry not of 
that. Law and order - sometimes it's all that separates us from becoming 
Undermountain or Hellgate Keep." 

-Waterdeep Watch Captain Rulathon 



The Lords of Waterdeep rule the city, but who is the real force for law and order in this 
city of thousands of ruthless nobles, unscrupulous merchants, and temperamental 
adventurers? The forces of law and order are the watch (the police forces), the guard 
(the army), and the Lords' appointed and administered Magisters (the judges). The 
chapter below details how each group operates and how each enforces the Lords' Rule 
from the local level with the watch up to the city level with the guard and ruled over 
all by the magisters and the courts. 

The OTv Watch 

T he watch, far more often seen by most citizens and visitors, are the city's daily, 
domestic police, and do far more than arrest offenders. They may aid passersby 
with heavy loads, give directions, search for lost children, provide basic medical aid, 
and referee gambling disputes or childrens' fights during a typical patrol. 

A watch street patrol usually consists of four members, afoot, two being officers - 
an "armar" (sergeant) and a "civilar" (captain or lieutenant) - and all are clad in 
leather and chain armor of green, black, and gold (AC 7), and armed with rods 
(treat as clubs), daggers, and short swords. The watch has access to the guard's 
armories in the Castle, Palace, and wall-towers. Reinforcements rushing to the scene 
of a dispute may be on horse and may wear all manner of armor and bear all manner 
of arms, as required. Watch patrols are many; all on-duty members of the watch can 
enter any building or area in the city without hindrance or warning, unless specifi 
cally forbidden to by a Lord (not a Magister or senior watch or guard officer) and 
search any person, place, or container at will. Certain areas of the city are, by tradi 
tion, lightly patroled (the docks, for example) and others are very heavily patroled 
(the City of the Dead, for example, and the streets around the villas of the wealthy 
in the northern areas of the city). If a watch patrol encounters a major disturbance, 
they will blow the distinctive "trembling" note horns they carry on their belts to 
summon aid, and one member of the patrol will immediately run to the nearest 
guardtower or guardpost to spread the word, usually summoning additional aid from 
the guard if necessary. 

Under the command of Piergeiron, the watch is run by Captain Rulathon. His messen 
gers are the "Officers of the Day" (four watchmen chosen from the ranks). Each ward has 










































a number of guardposts with senior civilars in charge of each 
of them; one ward civilar oversees the senior civilars. Grand 
Civilar Derek Windsfire (the half-elven commander of the 
seven ward civilars) is of equal rank with Mage Civilar 
Thyriellentha Snome (commander of the watch-wizard 
forces) and Senior Armsmaster, Helve Urtrace (the adminis 
trator of watch weaponry and equipment, and Rulathon's 
oldest friend). 

If a watch patrol makes an arrest, two of its four mem 
bers must accompany an accused to a Magister immedi 
ately, the other two remaining on patrol, or if necessary 
assisting or protecting victims or abandoned property. If a 
vendor is arrested, the two watchmen who remain must 
guard his goods and conduct business for him to the best 
of their abilities, although they are not responsible for lost 
business or losses to monies or property in the arrested 
person's absence. One officer will be with each half of a 
split patrol, never staying together while their two subor 
dinates go elsewhere together. 

For restraining and guiding very dangerous or active sus 
pects, each patrol carries two rolled-up leather "capture 
hoods" - large sacks with tiny air-holes which are thrown 
over a person's head and then drawn tight with straps 
around the person's waist or belly, pinioning arms to sides 
and hampering visibility. Guide-ropes can be clipped to the 
hood to pull a confined person along in a certain direction, 
or used by several officers and a lot of strength to hold a 
confined person away from others that the person is 
attempting to reach by pulling on lines on all sides of the 
hood, preventing the arrested from lunging. 

Watch patrols when arresting will use hand-to-hand 
fighting to disarm and capture suspects who do not 
stand and surrender or throw down or sheathe their 
weapons when challenged. If the suspect continues to 
be violent, numerous watch members will attack single 
targets in attempts to hold the suspect down by sheer 
weight while he or she is disarmed and bound, with feet 
hobbled, or a capture hood is put on. Watch-wizards 
also employ slow, sleep, and hold person spells with great 
effectiveness. 

In cases of great danger to watch officers (such as an angry, 
powerful mage or a fighter attacking with magical weapons), 
watch members can slay to defend themselves and employ 
speak with dead spells later to determine a subject's guilt or 
innocence. Innocent parties are always resurrected at the city's 
expense, if possible. Watch officers who must kill in the line 
of duty are never charged, nor held financially responsible, for 
the deaths they bring about. An officer who kills often with 


out clear cause will be dismissed. Luckily, with the advent of 
watch-wizards, these occurrences happen with far less fre 
quency, and successful arrests of even the most troublesome of 
targets has increased dramatically. 

The OTy Gwutb 

T he Waterdeep Guards are the heavily-trained, fully 
armored people who are permanently employed by 
the city as crews of the rakers, fighting troops when the city 
or its interests are attacked, road patrols outside the city 
walls, and as garrisons for Piergeiron's Palace, Castle 
Waterdeep, and the many guardposts along the city's 
perimeter - towers, walls, seacaves, jails, and armories. The 
guard also serves as bodyguards for Piergeiron and as honor 
guards for visiting diplomats. The city gates are manned by 
both by the guard, who control access and see to the secu 
rity of the city from attack, and by watch patrols, who 
observe those entering, and are ready to aid the guard in 
troubles, chase fugitives so that the guard need not aban 
don their posts, or escort visitors if required. 

The guards' uniforms are silver scale mail covered by 
black tabards with gold trim. They tend to be armed with 
rods, short bows, short swords, and daggers; different posts 
demand different weapons, so guards posted at the gates 
might be armed with spears and long swords, whereas the 
raker crews might be more proficient with crossbows and 
throwing daggers. 

The size of the guard and the watch is known only to 
Piergeiron and the Lords, but is strictly controlled, and 
thought to be approximately 1,200 guard and 1,600 watch. 
In times of strife, Waterdeep usually hires mercenaries and 
installs guardsmen as officers over them. The professionally 
curious are warned that Piergeiron has deliberately subdi 
vided the payrolls of these forces so that it is difficult for 
visiting diplomats and others engaged in snooping (pardon, 
sightseeing) to discover the true size and names of the guard 
and the watch, and these figures may only be two-thirds or 
even less of the true totals. 

The MaglsTeRS & The 
CounXs 

D irectly beneath Piergeiron and the mysterious Lords are 
the magistrates, or Magisters. The Common Courts of 
Waterdeep are conducted by 26 appointed Magisters. At least 
three such officials are always on duty at the Palace, and dur 
ing daylight hours, there is also a Magister at each gate of the 



city. These "Black Robes" can pass sentence instantly, 
although most make sentences conditional on the supporting 
evidence of witnesses. They are always accompanied by a 
bodyguard of at least six members of the city guard. 

Any citizen of Waterdeep is allowed an appeal to the 
Lord's Court within two days of any sentencing by a Magis- 
ter. The Lord's Court is chaired by Piergeiron, and is 
attended by at least two other Lords and two Magisters. It 
is held at about highsun (noon) every day. This court hears 
all cases of murder and other "severe" crimes, reports of sus 
picious deaths, rape, misuse of magic, succession and inher 
itance disputes, and appeals from the citizenry against 
Magisterial judgments. Most judgments are upheld or 
reworded in a minor way, it should be noted. The Magisters 
are good and perceptive people, or they do not hold their 
positions for long. Magisters can be created at will by pub 
lic decree of the Lords. 

Laujs of WafeR&eep 

W aterdhavians are, by and large, a law-abiding peo 
ple-when so many of the city's inhabitants earn 
their living by trade, respect for property is high, and sup 
port for a strong, objective police force even more so. 
Much of the laws of Waterdeep remain unwritten, within 
the "reasonable discretion" of the Magisters (and ulti 
mately, of the Lords who may overrule them), and there 
fore cannot all be set down here. A summary of sentences, 
the "Code Legal" is provided below. 

Code Legal- 

Crimes and their corresponding sentences, as administered 
by the Lords and Magisters, can be roughly summarized as 
set forth below. This system is known as the "Code Legal," 
and is only a basis for sentencing, not absolute rules. Note 
that both Lords and Magisters are free to determine 
absolutely guilt and innocence, and set any lesser sentence 
they consider fitting (or none at all) if a crime is deemed 
justified or largely harmless and unintentional. 

A single act can result in multiple charges, under one or 
more of the four "Plaints." Magisterial justice may be 
appealed to the Lords by anyone, but such appeals must be 
within nine days of the initial sentencing, and noncitizens 
of Waterdeep must persuade a citizen of the city ("Money is 
the great persuader," Durnan once remarked dryly . . . ) to 
appeal on their behalf. 

The four Plaints are the four different classes of aggrieved 
parties, or those who are injured by a crime. They are Crimes 


Against The Lords; Crimes Against The City; Crimes 
Against The Gods; and Crimes Against Citizens. Under each 
Plaint are four classes of crimes. These four types of offenses 
are Severe; Serious; Lesser; and Minor. 

The sentences have been set forth below in a chart to 
save space. After the letter that denotes a type of punish 
ment, an amount (of time or money) usually follows. The 
commercial nature of the city, with its emphasis on mer 
cantile trade and property, is clearly reflected in these "typi 
cal" punishments. The city is empowered to seize and sell 
the property of a convict to realize the money needed to 
satisfy the payment of fines or damages, without the con 
sent of a convict. The family, clan, guild, or business part 
ners of a convict are never liable for the payment of a 
convict's fines or damages, unless they can be proven to 
have aided, abetted, ordered, or coerced a convict into the 
criminal activity in question. 

Temples and priesthoods are not permitted to pass or 
carry out sentences under the Third Plaint; only officers of 
the city may do so. 

Convicted beings may owe fines to the city and pay as 
they can over time, but only upon permission of a Lord or 
Magister, who will typically demand at least a partial pay 
ment immediately. 

Sentences 

A Death (Instant) 

B Death (upon conviction) 

C Exile or Ban Against Future Entry 
D Mutilation (loss of offending extremities, branding) 

E Enforced Hard Labor 
F Imprisonment (dungeon) 

G Imprisonment (light work in Castle compound) 

H Fine (payable to City) 

I Damages (payable to injured party) 

J Edict Against Convicted (public pronouncement for 
bidding convicted to do something; e.g. continue in 
present business, repeat circumstances that led to an 
offense, etc.) 

The First Plaint: Crimes Against The Lords 

SEVERE OFFENSES 

• Treason (including Assault Upon a Lord): A 

• Impersonation of a Lord: A 

• Impersonation of a Magister: B after flogging 

• Forgery of an Official Document: B or C (permanent) 
plus D 

• Assault Upon A Magister: B or F (10 years) after flogging 


77 



SERIOUS OFFENSES 

• Theft, Vandalism, or Arson Against the Palace or any 
part of the City Walls: E (as justice demands) plus H 
(cost of repairs plus 2,000 gold pieces) 

• Impersonation of a Guardsman or Officer of the 
Watch: F (as justice demands) plus H (5,000 gold 
pieces) and flogging 

• Repetition of any Lesser or Minor Offense Against This 
Plaint: E or F (1 month) and/or H (up to 1,000 gold 
pieces) 

• Willful Disobedience of any Edict Uttered Against One 
By A Lord: H (up to 1,000 gold pieces) or C (up to 5 
years) 

LESSER OFFENSES 

• Unlawful Observation or Copying of an Official Docu 
ment: F (3 weeks) plus H (300 gold pieces) 

• Assault Upon Any City Officer Who Is Acting In the 
Line Of Duty: F (1 week) plus H (as justice demands, 
usually based on ability to pay; flogging if unable to pay 
anything) 

MINOR OFFENSES 

• Blasphemy Against Lord, Magister, or any City Officer: 
G (4 days) plus H (120 gp) 

The Second Plaint: Crimes Against The City 

SEVERE OFFENSES 

• Poisoning of Water (City Wells; includes attempted 
blockage or attempts to control public access, or charge 
fees for such access): A 

• Murder: B or E (10-15 years) 

• Spying, Sabotage: B or C (permanent) plus H (costs of 
repairs plus 2,000-5,000 gold pieces) or F (20 years) plus H 

SERIOUS OFFENSES 

• Fraud: C (permanent) and I (as justice demands) or F (up 
to 10 years) and I, and J 

. Fencing Stolen Goods: G (up to 2 years) and H (typi 
cally double the sale price) and J 

• Unlawful Dueling (Manslaughter): C (up to 5 years and I 
(to family, typically 1,000 gold pieces) or E (up to 3 
years) and I 

• Murder With Justification: C (up to 5 years) or E (up to 3 
years) 

• Repetition of Any Lesser or Minor Offense Against This 
Plaint: F (1 month) and H (up to 1,000 gp) and J 

• Bribery of a City Officer or Official (attempted or appre 


hended): C (up to 20 years) and confiscation of all prop 
erty except one weapon, one week's rations, and clothes 
worn by offender. 

LESSER OFFENSES 

• Unlawful Entry Into The Harbor (1 charge per vessel per 
occasion): C (1 year) and H (500 gp) 

• Unlawful Dueling (apprehended; i.e. on fatality): G (1 
week) and H (100 gp) and J 

MINOR OFFENSES 

. Bribery: G (1 week) and/ or H (amount of bribe or 
attempted bribe) 

• Unlawful Flight Intrusion (into City airspace, of intelligent 
being flying by means of an aerial mount or magic): H (300 
gp) and J (in peacetime; in wartime, sentence can be A) 

• Blasphemy Against Foreign Ambassadors: G (up to 1 
week), H (50 gp) and J 

• Vagrancy: F (overnight) 

• Littering (includes Relief of Human Wastes in Public): F 
(overnight) and H (2 sp to 1 gp, based on ability to pay) and J 

• Brandishing a Weapon Dangerously or Threateningly 
Without Due Cause (Note: being in a brawl is not "due 
cause" unless one is menaced with a weapon): F 
(overnight) and H (1 gp) 

• Dangerous Operation of a Coach, Wagon, Litter or 
other Conveyance (including Airborne): H (5-50 gp, 
as justice demands; note that this will be in addition to 
the sentence for any charges placed under The Fourth 
Plaint) 

The Third Plaint: Crimes Against The Gods 

SEVERE OFFENSES 

. Defiling of a Holy Place (Temple Burglary, Arson, or 
Vandalism): C (5 years) and I (as justice demands) or E 
(up to 5 years) or F (up to 3 years) and I 

SERIOUS OFFENSES 

• Theft of Temple Goods or Offerings (includes spoilage or 
consumption of same): F (up to 1 month) and I (double 
the estimated value of the goods) and I 

. Tomb-Robbing (or Unlawful Entry or Vandalism of a 
Tomb): G (up to 1 week) and I (cost of repairs and 
replacements plus up to 500 gp, payable to whoever 
maintains the tomb -temple, guild, city, or family) 
and J 

• Repetition of any Lesser or Minor Offense Against This 
Plaint: G (up to 1 week) and H (up to 1,000 gp) and J 



LESSER OFFENSES 

• Assault Upon A Priest or Lay Worshiper: I (up to 500 gp; 
payable to temple, and usually based on ability to pay) 
and J (in addition to charges placed under the Fourth 
Plaint arising from such an assault) 

MINOR OFFENSES 

• Public Blasphemy of a God or Priesthood: I (up to 10 gp, 
based on ability to pay) and J 

. Drunkenness (and Disorderly Conduct) at Worship: I (up 
to 5 gp, based on ability to pay) and J 

The Fourth Plaint: Crimes Against Citizens 

SEVERE OFFENSES 

• Arson (of Ship, Structure, or Stored Property): E (up to 3 
months) and I (value lost plus up to 500 gp), and/or C 
(up to 10 years) and I 

• Rape: D and I (up to 2,000 gp) or E (up to 5 years) and I, 
or F (up to 10 years) and I 

• Assault Resulting In Mutilation or Crippling: D and I 
(up to 2,000 gp) or E (up to 3 years) and I 

• Magical Assault: FI (up to 1,000 gp) and I (up to 2,000 
gp) and J 

• Forgery (not including official City documents): C (up to 
20 years) and D and the confiscation of all property 
except 1 weapon, 1 week's rations, and offender's cloth 
ing worn at the time of sentencing 

• Slavery: C (up to 10 years) and flogging if shackling, cru 
elty, whipping, branding, or physical indignities are 
observed 

SERIOUS OFFENSES 

• Robbery: E (up to 1 month) and I (value of goods lost 
plus up to 500 gp) 

. Burglary: F (up to 3 months) and I (value of goods lost 
plus up to 500 gp) 

. Theft or Killing of Livestock I (double the cost of lost 
stock) 

• Repetition of any Lesser or Minor Offense Against This 
Plaint: F (up to 1 week) and I (double normal), or G (up 
to 2 weeks) and I (double normal) 

• Usury: I (City recovers excess over legal rates, returns to 
injured party) 

LESSER OFFENSES 

• Damage to Property: I (value of goods lost plus up to 500 
gp)and J 

• Assault (Wounding): I (cost of medical attention plus up 
to 500 gp) and J 


• Assault on Livestock (non-fatal): I (cost of medical 
attention plus up to 500 gp; maximum damages always 
apply if livestock's breeding capability is impaired) 

• Unlawful Hindrance of Business I (up to 500 gp) and J 
(this charge includes instances of blocking access to a 
place of business without permission of owner or a Magis- 
ter; and trying to frighten, disgust, or drive away cus 
tomers in or in front of another's shop) 

MINOR OFFENSES 

• Assault (without wounding or robbery): F (overnight) 
and I (up to 50 gp) 

• Excessive Noise (interfering with sleep or business): I (up 
to 25 gp) and J 

A DM should use the "elbow room" created by this dis 
cretionary legal system just as the Lords do: to create any 
necessary decrees to prevent player characters from running 
amok. Magisters and Lords have in the past made laws 
(edicts) specific to certain individuals (for example, "Sibrin 
the Warrior may not enter the City of the Dead at any 
time, for any reason except his own final burial"), and will 
continue to do so. 

TrULs & SewTeNclNg 

T here is no bail in Waterdeep, although a Lord can dis 
miss charges at will. This is rarely done; usually the 
offender must be an undercover Lord or trusted agent 
involved in something important to get such a reprieve. 

There are no lawyers in Waterdeep (Piergeiron's com 
ment on this matter was that "no one should get between 
citizens and their justice"), although there are a few "pro 
fessional witnesses" who for a fee will state a case to their 
client's best advantage before a Black Robe. Expulsion from 
the city is the fate of any of these who are caught swearing 
they saw something that did not in fact occur, or that they 
were not present to see. Several minor clerics earn regular 
incomes for themselves or their temples by casting detect lie 
magics from behind concealing tapestries at a sign from a 
Magister. The fee paid by the city is 500 gold pieces per 
spell cast, and so this service is 'used only in the most deli 
cate of important cases. 

The death penalty is customarily employed only to 
deal with dangerous and incurable lunatics, murderers, 
and those who commit acts of treason against the city or 
the Lords. Sentences of death are usually carried out on 
the battlements of Castle Waterdeep if commoners or 


79 


soldiers must die -for death in such cases is by hanging, 
usually at highsun (noon). Several massive, permanent 
wooden scaffolds are cantilevered out from the Castle 
walls on the south side. Nobles die by the sword; such 
beheadings are usually carried out in front of the Palace 
gates. Floggings are more often carried out in the Court 
of the White Bull, but may be carried out anywhere if an 
example to the citizenry of a particular neighborhood is 
intended. Many people over the years have opted to stay 
an immediate death sentence for exile into Undermoun 
tain; while over 200 persons have requested this appar 
ent clemency, Laeral reports of the survival of perhaps 
10% of these. Persons sentenced to death who choose 
exile to Undermountain and are later caught in the city 
are put to death immediately. 

Specific Crimes Ato& 
SITuaTIons 

BkIId&ky 

Bribery is a most frowned-upon crime among the general 
populace. Because of the ill it brings to one's reputation, no 
one native to Waterdeep would ever attempt it, although 
they might-if very rich-bargain with the Lords to drop 
(severe) charges in return for forfeiture of a valuable prop 
erty, vessel, or cargo. (This has wryly been referred to by 
Durnan as "buying back your own skin.") 

DebTs 

Most Waterdhavians are sentenced for debts of one sort or 
another - either debts to another citizen or outstanding 
debts owed to the city due to unpaid fees or taxes or fines 
imposed by a Black Robe or Lord which cannot be (or are 
not) paid within a specified period of time. Such "payoff" 
periods are set by the sentences and are usually twenty 
days, exactly, from the date and time of the sentencing. 
Minor personal (private) debts are paid off by the offender, 
by having him work for the person he owes money to 
(Watch officers will check on attendance to, and diligence 
in, this enforced servitude) until service, at the going mar 
ket rate, equals the debt owed. Major debts may result in 
the city paying the person owed from its own coffers, and 
the offender becoming an unpaid sewer, wall, or road repair 
worker until the debt is cleared. 

In times of strife, such offenders have found themselves 
pressed into service as temporary soldiers, or rowers on a 


seagoing raker, on the understanding that they are free of 
debt if they survive to make it back to Waterdeep with 
their ship or military unit. Only the Lords can approve a 
recommendation by a Magister, senior watch officer, or one 
of their number to seize property or goods of an offender to 
pay fines; this they do rarely-but, combined with exile 
from the city, it provides an effective last-resort method of 
removing persistent troublemakers. 

Written contracts or note-of-hand are required to prove 
to a Black Robe that a debt is owed, if a citizen wishes to 
bring a complaint before the Courts. All careful merchants 
will get and give written documents in their dealings, even 
if their trade is unlawful. (For example, the selling of privi 
leged information overheard in the Palace might appear on 
an invoice as "three horses," or slaves - discussed below- 
as "six sacks of finest barley, unmilled.") 

Duels 

The wearing of weapons is allowed in the city, as is using 
them in clear self-defense, but duels are allowed only in 
specific places (such as the various open courtyards in 
the southern part of the city), and must be marshalled by 
an officer of the watch or a Magister. A duel must be for 
reasons of a specific, unprovoked injury, allowed by a 
Magister; simply killing citizens because you covet their 
money or don't like their faces is not sanctioned. Lords, 
Magisters, guard and watch members, and Fleralds (even 
visiting ones) are exempt from challenges, and the Lords 
usually forbid any duels involving the heads of guilds, 
noble houses, or priesthoods (although rank-and-file 
members of all of these organizations can and do duel, 
sometimes with great enthusiasm). Duels are seldom to 
the death; more often, they are to yield or first blood, 
whichever first occurs; and clerics usually attend to heal 
(upon payment of temple donations) the loser, and some 
times the winner too. 

Fine 

Fire is not as common in Waterdeep as it might be. The 
collapse of a building often douses the fire with a dull 
"boom" as the full water cistern on the roof is emptied 
onto the flames, or the building falls in onto a full cellar 
cistern. Watch officers are adept at fighting fires with 
sand, night soil, the removal of flammables, and in most 
cases, the full cooperation of nearby city folk. Timbers 
are used for most of the upper stories, and for floors and 
furnishings, in Waterdeep buildings, but this seacoast 
city is damp (fogs and gentle mists are common) and 



SZA 



most wood is very slow to catch fire, even when heating 
fires within are large, and ground-level stories and the 
floor directly above them are usually of stone or clay 
brick. Roofs are often a mixture of boards, thatch, and 
slates, sealed with pitch. 

Most injuries in fires come from smoke inhalation or 
being burned by raining gobbets of fiery pitch when a 
roof collapses. A typical building in Waterdeep has a base 
30% chance of an uncontrolled fire in a room spreading 
(increased if there are tapestries, or stocks of stored fuel 
such as woodpiles or oil present) to the rest of the build 
ing. If it does, usually in 6-9 (5 + ld4) rounds, the build 
ing will be engulfed, a process taking 3-6 turns, and this 
is affected by any firefighting attempted and by the 
weather. There is a 1 or 2 chance on a ld8 that the fire 
will spread to adjacent buildings; if a fire spreads to a new 
building, there is a base 20% chance of it engulfing the 
structure as the original one was, and so on. Unless aided 
by magical or very unusual winds, a fire will never leap 
over water, a street, or another already burned building 
to reach a structure farther away. 

Members of the Watchful Order of Magists & Protec 
tors will guard buildings against fire, or attempt to extin 
guish existing fires, for fees (whereas it is part of the 
watch's and guard's duty to provide assistance against 
fires). A private home of middling wealth and no espe 
cially flammable or valuable contents is 35% likely to 
have a protection contract with this guild; members will 
arrive in 4-7 (ld4+3) rounds and attempt to douse the 
flames by magical means. 

SIav&ky 

Slavery is illegal in Waterdeep; within the city walls, no 
one is deemed a slave, and may not be treated as one-no 
branding, shackling, or physical punishment. If any of 
these are observed in public (this includes inns and busi 
nesses, but not private homes, pleasure houses, festhalls, 
and warehouses), charges will result, usually including 
immediate imprisonment for the offender, so that the 
slave has time to escape. Many slaves are brought into the 
city, however, for slavery is common in Calimshan and 
Thay, and not unknown in the northern Moonsea area, 
Unther, and Mulhorand. While in the city, slaves have all 
the rights of any citizen, and wise owners make a trip to 
the City of Splendors a holiday for slaves, giving them 
some spending money, and hire bodyguards (for protec 
tion against their own temporarily free slaves, as well as 
any dangerous residents of Waterdeep) and servitors (to 


do all the fetching and carrying the slave normally does) 
for their stay in the city. Many slaves, if they are ever 
freed or escape, come to Waterdeep because of their 
happy memories of these holidays. 

The selling of slaves, even in the form of a previously- 
arranged transfer of possession that does not involve any 
transfer of payment within Waterdeep's walls, is well- 
nigh impossible given the vigilance of the guard, watch, 
and the magical arts of allies they can call upon. Durnan 
and Kitten of the Lords have both been slaves in the 
past, and the Lords as a whole take a savagely dim view 
of slavers. 

Thteverzy 

Most thieves in Waterdeep are independent artists of low 
level and, if they are not both unusually lucky and skilled, 
soon caught unless they steal seldom, taking advantage of 
misfortune, a fight, or other confusion to steal unattended 
goods. Kidnapers, those who rob and then slay their vic 
tims, and those who indulge in torture are pursued tirelessly 
by the authorities. Only blackmailers, it seems, flourish in 
Waterdeep. Thieves of all sorts are reminded (often 
painfully and too late) that .Waterdeep is a city of much 
magic and powerful (high-level) people, and escaping 
detection is difficult. There is no organized truly organized 
thieves' guild, due to diligent policing and the activities of 
the Red Sashes. (Hidden workings by the Xanathar 
Thieves' Guild, however, are starting to increase, and the 
Red Sashes are working hard to find out what they can to 
shut this group down; see Chapter Six of Who's Who in 
Waterdeep for more information.) 



Select Laoj 
EwfoRcemeKiT NPCs 

ILph 

Game Data: CN halfm T8; STR 16, DEX 18. 

Description: This black-haired halfling is slimmer than 
most, but is strong in will and body. While he still favors 
black as his primary clothing color, he has gotten quite 
comfortable in his watch uniform and leathers. 

Notes: A former sneak-thief who kept to Dock Ward tav 
erns and sewers if not roaming the rooftops of the city in 
search of booty, Ilph (real name: Myrkuth Longpipe) 
was apprehended one night two years ago while stashing 
some loot in his hiding place: A hollowed-out block, of 
stone on the roof of the Palace itself. When faced with a 
masked and robed Lord of Waterdeep who apparently 
could keep his footing as ably as Ilph did (Nindil Jal- 
buck), he finally surrendered, laughing that "if I had to 
be caught. I'm glad it took a Lord of the city to do so!" 
As his sentence for thievery and other crimes, he was 
sentenced to six years' service within Castle Ward as a 
watch-skulk. Though he hated it for the first two years, 
he has grown accustomed to his comrades and cowork 
ers, and even likes the attention and respect he gets 
from his constituents in Castle Ward. While he misses 
some of the excitement, Ilph has actually grown to 
respect the watch now, and has even taught some of the 
watchmen some of his old tricks to avoid capture. 

RuIaTboM 

Game Data: LG hm L12; STR 17, WIS 16, CHA 16. 

Description: Rulathon is a distinguished, gray-haired gen 
tleman of slight build but wiry, tough muscle. His 
square-jawed face is lined with wrinkles born of this 
everpresent and difficult duty. A devout worshiper of 
Tyr, he proudly wears his holy symbol on a necklace at 
all times. 

Notes: Rulathon is Captain (overall commander, under 
Lord Piergeiron) of the watch, and represents them in 
Palace ceremonies. Where there is any big trouble any 
where on the streets, Rulathon will arrive, clad in full 
plate and bearing his Red Sword (a sword +4, defender). 
He carries a lawful good iron horn of Valhalla for use in 
emergencies, and the distinctive note of his silver belt 
horn will alert one or more of the Lords (Piergeiron, 
Khelben, Mirt, Durnan, Texter, or Sammereza), if any 


are within range to hear it. This will bring about a 
prompt response by one or more watch-wizards on aerial 
steeds or carpets of flying, with 5-20 (5d4) fully armed 
guardsmen, on aerial steeds or afoot arriving in 4-9 
(ld6+3) rounds. If a situation is very serious, one or 
more of these arrivals will speedily go for the mercenary 
reinforcements. Rulathon is a fair man, but not one to 
fall afoul of. He'll arrest and bring individuals before a 
Magister a dozen times, if need be, until he gets a con 
viction or they take the hint and leave the city. 

Madeteow SuwdeTisTowe 

Game Data: LG hm Pall2; STR 18(72), CON 16, CHA 
17. 

Description: Madeiron stands an astonishing eight feet tall 
in height; when on duty, he wears polished, blued full 
plate (known in the Realms as "coat-of-plate"), and is 
truly an awesome sight. Madeiron is well-nigh fearless, 
and not especially bright. His perseverence, however, 
makes him a formidable foe. 

Notes: Madeiron is the Champion of Piergeiron, the spe 
cially assigned member of the guard who acts as Pierge- 
iron's personal bodyguard. He stays at Piergeiron's side 
in the Palace and outside the city, and answers any chal 
lenges to the Open Lord with his own blade or axe. The 
latter weapon is a battle axe +3 that radiates a bright 
white continual light, given to Madeiron by a High Priest 
of Tyr in the Inner Sea lands long ago, a lawful good 
weapon consecrated to Tyr, and known as "The Axe of 
Heavenly Lire." Madeiron also wields a 12-foot-long 
iron bar (treat as a triple-damage quarterstaff) when 
engaged in "crowd control" or facing many small foes, 
such as kobolds or goblins. 

Tzarc.rc.AkYM "The Youwgerc." 

Game Data: CG hm P6; STR 17, DEX 16. 

Description: Tzarrakyn is a slim, young man with long, 
brown hair worn loose in a wild mane about his shoul 
ders; he also has a close-trimmed beard and moustache. 
Always clad in his watch uniform, he also wields a short 
sword +1, flametongue that has Tymora's symbol embla 
zoned on the blade. 

Notes: Tzarrakyn's nickname is due to his famous father, 
Tzarrakyn of the Company of Crazed Venturers, who 
perished in the same epic battle with a beholder that 
claimed the life of Savengriff. Unbeknownst to Com 
pany members, Tzarrakyn had taken to wife a mer 
chant's daughter of Waterdeep, Dartheema, who died in 




childbirth less than a year after her husband. The baby, 
now known as Tzarrakyn "the Younger," was raised by 
Dartheema's parents. Nain, when he by chance learned 
the baby's parentage, gave the parents 7,000 gold pieces 
toward the boy's upbringing, but the parents themselves 
both died of a winter fever when Tzarrakyn had just 
reached the age of fourteen. 

Taken in by the watch, Tzarrakyn cared for their boots 
and weapons in return for a bed and food, and dreamed 
of being a rich warrior hero. That would need luck and a 
good sword-arm, the watchmen told him; so he became 
a worshiper of Tymora and Tempus. With the help of his 
friends, he became an adventurer, and spent much of 
the past ten years out on the Savage Frontier, winning 
fame and fortune. He returned to Waterdeep in 1365, 
and rejoined the watch as a way to balance the scales 
and give back to the watch what it had given him. He is 
now a senior civilar in Castle Ward, and is well 
respected by many Waterdhavians. 

Bizac<5 ULmemeR 

Game Data: CN hm F6; STR 17, WIS 15. 

Description: Brace is a large, beefy, hard-faced man who 
has endured much hardship; as a result, he is mildly 
paranoid and distrustful of others that he doesn't know. 
Once his trust is gained. Brace is a loyal friend but, if 
crossed, he will obsessively hunt down and kill the 
betrayer. He has a sharp, biting wit (though his jokes 
tend to be few and far between). 

Notes: Brace was a member of two short-lived adventuring 
bands: the Men of the Knife and The Company of the 
Black Hand. Both companies were decimated by mon 
sters while exploring ruins in the North. Brace won't 
discuss details of his past. Having spent eight years as a 
hiresword. Brace joined the watch as a more constant 
and steady means of income. He owns two magical 
items: a ring of regeneration, which he conceals with a 
bandage that covers three fingers and the back of a "bro 
ken" hand, and a ring of ESP (allows the wearer to 
eavesdrop on the surface thoughts of one creature, as the 
second-level wizard spell, for two rounds in every 1-turn 
period, either a single 2-round probe, or two 1-round 
probes). Brace will try to avoid people casting detect 
magic on him, and if they do so, will try to trick such 
examiners by clasping his hands together while such 



detection is operating, and by otherwise never using his 
bandaged hand, into believing he wears only one magic 
ring, not two. 

Helve UnXizAce 

Game Data: LG hm F5; STR 16, DEX 15. 

Description: Helve is a quiet, rugged man who has seen 
much fighting in his life, as is apparent from his 
scarred visage, oft-broken pug nose, and missing teeth. 
While aged and balding, he can still put many of his 
watch recruits (and any taproom brawler) through 
their paces. 

Notes: Helve is a close-mouthed, always-calm fighting man, 
who is Senior Armsmaster of the Waterdeep watch, 
responsible for purchasing, maintaining, and keeping an 
account of, all weapons used by officers of the watch. If 
one goes missing, it is he who will investigate. He is said, 
in tavern-talk, to put secret marks on all the watch 
weapons-invisible to all but himself-but this is a myth. 
Helve also drills watch officers in the use of their arms, 
and is said to know every trick of tavern- and street-fight 
ing. He also seems to have an uncanny ability to antici 
pate what an opponent is about to do and be ready for it. 
If a large brawl or magical fight erupts and a watch patrol 
calls for reinforcements, and the reinforcements in turn 
have to blow their horns for additional reinforcements. 
Helve will almost certainly (90%) arrive. He carries a rod 
of smiting when on duty, and when answering a summons 
to trouble, he is often accompanied by his daughter, Lass- 
ree, a 6th-level watch-wizard who has a ring of spell turning 
and a wand of paralyzation on hand at all times, and 11-22 
(10+ldl2) additional watch officers. 




Chxpten. Sev&to: 
Mag )o of 

WaTeKdeep 

here can one find magic in Waterdeep? Shall I stoop to a cliche of 
'every corner/ true though it might be? Spells galore are created each 
day behind the appropriately-closed doors of many a wizard's tower; 
trust in Mystra that you shall learn of such magics as your fate befits. 
As for items, shops exist here for objects mundane and amazing, but 
none traffics solely in arcane items. Magical item shops, with rare exceptions on a handful of 
worlds, do not exist, despite any fantastical ravings of some chronicler-friends of Elminster. 
The only ready peddlers of magical items in Waterdeep are those of the Watchful Order of 
Magists & Protectors, and their prices are prohibitive enough. As it is, the Lords also have 
interdictions against selling certain powerful items. ... " 

-Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun 

Spells of WaTeRdeep 

W ell, here we are at the many new wizards' spells within the City of Splendors. 

You realize, of course, this is a mere tip of the magical iceberg within Waterdeep, 
but these are the only spells Khelben and Elminster allowed us to discover. Placing 
them in a campaign is up to the Dungeon Master and the player characters. All the 
spells state who has access to the spell (DM's choice makes the spell more widely used, 
and DMs choose who knows it), so they might be learned through contact with those 
people; notes for "Guild" access mean that the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors 
has data on the spell and shares it with members for a price. Depending on who you 
talk to, the right price might get you a scroll of a relatively exclusive spell. Unless 
player characters gain the confidence of the mages involved, the spells remain only in 
the hands of NPCs. Of course, the young mages of Sevenlamps Cut are always willing 
to sell spells for a price. . . . 

FvzsT-Levet Spells 



Disarm 

(Evocation) 

Available to: Watch 
Range: 100 yards 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Casting Time: 1 
Area of Effect: 1 person 
Saving Throw: Neg. 











This spell summons minor telekinetic bursts that cause a 
wizard's opponent to drop any hand-held weapons or items. 
There is enough force behind the spell to cause the items 
to move ld20' away from the former wielder, forcing char 
acters to spend a round retrieving their weapons or stolen 
items. This spell affects only handheld items, not rings or 
belts or other items unless physically carried in the hands 
(not worn). 

Gemidan's Icicle 

(Evocation) 

Available to: Gemidan, Khelben, Laeral 
Range: 20 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: One round 
Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: One target or creature 
Saving Throw: None 

When cast, this spell summons an ice-blue bolt that streaks 
to its intended target like a magic missile. It does ld4 points 
of damage to one opponent (2d4 to fire-based or fire-using 
foes) and causes a T-thick patch of ice to form over a 3' 
radius at its impact point. The spell is designed to hit foes 
in their eyes (blinding them for one round) or their hands 
(disrupting spellcasting for one round), the target area 
named at the time of casting. The ice dissolves into mist 
after one round. 

This variant of the Snilloc's snowball spell was created by 
Gemidan, Khelben's youngest apprentice. Like its parent 
spell, it has the benefits of greater range at higher levels, 
and can be used against objects (triggering traps or placing 
ice on torches to extinguish lights, etc.). 

The material component for this spell is a piece of ivory 
or a small chunk of ice. 

Lightning Bug 

(Alteration, Evocation) 

Available to: Gemidan, Khelben, Laeral; Guild, Watch 

Range: 15 yards + 10 yards/level 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: 1 creature or target 
Saving Throw: None 


Another of Gemidan's spell variants that merges magic mis 
sile with shocking grasp, this spell allows casters to generate a 
missile of electrical energy and cast it unerringly at a target. 
When it hits the target (or an electrical conductor that 
touches an opponent's body), the lightning bug discharges 
ld6 points of damage, plus 1 point per level of the wizard 
(for example, an llth-level mage would generate an elec 
trical missile of ld6 + 11 points of damage). 

Reveal Magic 

(Alteration, Divination) 

Available to: Dagsumn; Guild, Watch, assorted mages 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

With this spell, wizards can make the hidden auras of magi 
cal spells and items visible to all, rather than personally 
viewing the same via detect magic. The spell can be cast two 
different ways, each with distinct effects. 

If cast over an area, the spell reveals all magical radia 
tions within a ten-foot radius with an additional five-foot 
radius for every two levels of the mage (for example, a 7th- 
level mage reveals magic in a 25-foot radius area). The 
intensity and type of magic cannot be determined, as all 
magical items and fields glow equally bright (akin to torch- 
light). 

If cast specifically on one item, the spell reveals the 
item's magical aura as flickering flames; the higher the 
flames, the more powerful the magic (and the color of the 
flames grants the mage a 10% chance per level to identify if 
a certain type of magic is present, like alteration, conjura 
tion, etc.). If a curse is present on the item, there is a 20% 
chance that the magical flames are colored black to signify 
the curse; if otherwise, it just registers the type of magic in 
the item. 

Like detect magic, this spell is blocked by one-foot-thick 
stone walls, solid metal of one-inch thickness, or a yard or 
more of solid wood. The spell was created by Dagsumn of 
Waterdeep, and he sold the spell information to the 
Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors for guild member 
ship and enough gold to buy a townhouse in Castle Ward. 
Dagsumn also sells the spell on scrolls to anyone with 500 
gold pieces. 




Slingstar 

(Alteration, Evocation) 

Available to: Danilo Thann, Gemidan, Laeral; Watch 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: 1 sling stone/3 levels 
Saving Throw: None 

This variant of the magic missile spell uses the movement 
of a sling as its somatic component and sling stones & 
bullets for material components. When cast, the mage 
can change the sling stones or bullets into magic missiles. 
The physical missiles are consumed and the target is hit 
without fail for ld6 points of damage, plus 1 point for 
each level of the caster. Wizards temporarily charge their 
slings with magical energy, allowing them to transform 
multiple stones over successive rounds. For every three 
levels, a caster can create another missile, but only one 
can be fired per round (for example, a lOth-level mage 
can create four slingstars within 10 rounds). Slingstars are 
affected by all items that affect magic missiles, though they 
can penetrate a shield spell. 

The material component for this spell is a small stone or 
sling bullet to be consumed by the spell. 

Trembling Horn 

(Evocation, Illusion/Phantasm) 

Available to: Watch 
Range: 50 yards + 5 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 hour 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: Up to 3 targets in 20-foot radius globe 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell, specially designed by Thyri Snome for the 
watch, allows watch-wizards to blow their horns at fleeing 
suspects and attach magical tracers to them that allow the 
watch to easily find them in crowds. When cast, the wizard 
must blow a watch horn and point at the target or targets 
in the area of effect. Targets must be at least partially in 
sight for the spell to be effective. The magic remains inac 
tive until triggered by a watch horn. 

When a watch member with a watch horn (not limited 
to caster) approaches within 30' of an affected person, the 


spell activates. A glowing, sounding horn appears 1 foot 
above the person and is easily heard. This audible image 
grows brighter and louder as the watch approaches. It fades 
after two rounds, but targets can be caught by then. 

If affected individuals evade the watch for one hour after 
casting, the spell ends without activating. Waterdhavians 
are familiar with this spell, often stopping people who have 
this cast upon them, should they hide in their midst. 

SecoN)6-Lev>el Spells 

Battering Ram 

(Evocation) 

Available to: Guild, Watch 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 round 
Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: One target or creature 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell duplicates a ring of the ram's effects. It wraps the 
caster's arm in translucent magical force, making a ram's 
head at the fist. Casters use this force in two ways: They 
have Strength scores of 19 to open doors, break items, or 
hit opponents (2d6 points of damage); or they can launch 
the force up to 30' away in the direction of pointing and 
hit targets like battering rams for two points of structural 
damage (doors, walls, and other barriers) or 2d6 points of 
damage (saving throw vs. spell or fall over; successful save 
negates the fall but not damage). The material component 
is a piece of ram's horn held in the caster's fist. 

GemidaiTs Paralytic Missile 

(Evocation) 

Available to: Gemidan, Khelben, Laeral; Watch, Guild 

Range: 40 yards + 10 yards/level 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: 1 creature 

Saving Throw: Vi 

This spell generates a missile of green magical energy that 
lances out of the caster's fingertip and always hits its target 
creature or person; the target must be at least partially visible 
for the spell to work. Creatures struck by a paralytic missile are 
immobilized for 1 round for every level of the caster. Success- 





ful saving throws against this spell reduce the duration by half. 

Originally a miscast magic missile spell, Gemidan and Khelben 
both found it to be a useful application as a defense for lower- 
level mages. Khelben promptly gave the spell's particulars to 
Mage Civilar Thyriellentha Snome, the senior watch-wizard. 

Net 

(Evocation) 

Available to: Guild, Watch 
Range: 5 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 turn/2 levels 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell, designed for the watch-wizards, conjures a 
heavy, sticky weblike net in a ten-foot cube around its tar 
get area. The net doesn't anchor itself to surfaces, but it 
entangles any moving objects or persons within it. 

Characters and creatures within the area of effect need 
to make saving throws vs. spell. If successful, they manage 
to dodge the net or break the few strands that held them. If 
they fail the saving throw, creatures are entangled by the 
net and are immobilized for at least one round. They can 
cut their way free in following rounds or break free if their 
Strength is greater than 15; the net is not flammable. 

The net spell is a lesser form of the web spell, but its limi 
tations make it far more useful for use within the city of 
Waterdeep. The net needs no anchors and can be conjured 
in mid-air, either to drop on miscreants below or to entan 
gle flying creatures. Its size limitations and shorter duration 
create fewer problems with traffic and bystanders, since it 
doesn't obstruct entire streets like a normal web spell when 
used to catch some snatch-thieves. Due to their flame 
retardance, multiple nets are also used to help smother 
small fires as part of a fire-guard. 

The material component is a bit of spider web or rope. 

Wound Bind 

(Alteration, Necromancy) 

Available to: Guild, Stavros of the Skulls 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 3 
Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Saving Throw: None 


This spell stanches the bleeding of open wounds and 
cleanses those same wounds to prevent disease. The wound 
bind reduces chances of contracting normal diseases from 
the wound to 0%, decreases the chance of mummy rot and 
other magical diseases by 10%, and reduces chances of con 
tracting lycanthropy by 25%. When cast, the wizard must 
touch the open wound or wounds; without visible wounds, 
the spell will fail. The spell does not restore hit points to 
the target creature, but prevents any further loss or damage 
from previous wounds. If cast on wounds caused by a sword 
of wounding, the spell temporarily stanches those wounds; 
after 1 round, the wounds will open again and the weapon's 
bleeding damage continues unless the wounds are bandaged 
and bound to prevent such losses. 

This spell was developed by the necromancer and Cyri- 
cist Stavros of the Skulls by order of the Lord's Court. With 
the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors, he was to cre 
ate four beneficial necromantic spells or be sentenced to 
Undermountain (while a mage of no little power, Stavros 
was genuinely afraid of such a sentence, as he'd just 
returned from there only months ago). 

Th)izd>-Level Spells 

Gamalon's Fiery Backlash 

(Enchantment/Charm, Evocation) 

Available to: DM's choice 
Range: 120 yards + 10 yards/level 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 turn + 1 round/2 levels 
Casting Time: 1 

Area of Effect: 1-4 targets in 30-foot radius area 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

When cast, the backlash establishes invisible dweomers 
around the targets chosen by the caster. Whenever the tar 
get (whether a living being or a magical item) casts a fire- 
based spell (fireball, flaming hands, etc.), the spell is 
immediately, redirected onto the casting being or object 
with all normal effects. For example, a wizard under the 
effect of a backlash can cast a fireball but find himself at the 
center of it, subject to all the damage (save for half dam 
age). If items such as wands of fire are the focus, they must 
make saving throws vs. magical fire or be destroyed. 

Originally designed in Llorbauth by a starfaring mage, its 
primary use was to defend against long-distance fire attacks, 
a favored attack form in wildspace. This spell returned and 
spread through the Realms by sources who maintain its 


87 


original creator's name. Khelben Arunsun graciously pro 
vided the spell knowledge to both the watch-wizard corps 
and the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors of Water- 
deep, as well as the Harpers. 

Fearfire 

(Enchantment/Charm, Illusion) 

Available to: Alcedor Kolat; Guild 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 4 rounds +1 round/level 
Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: 1 creature/2 levels 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

This spell is one of the flashiest illusions created within) the 
history of the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors. 
Granted to them by Alcedor Kolat the Enchanter in 
exchange for some rare material components and minor 
spells, this spell allows mages to temporarily charm large 
groups of creatures at far lower levels than before. To cast 
the spell, the mage must break a piece of wood of any size; 
once broken, a 30-foot radius area around the mage erupts 
in magical flames and energy that simulates the retributive 
strike of a staff of the magi. All creatures within the area of 
effect chosen by the casting mage must make successful 
saving throws vs. spell to resist the spell effects; those who 
fail are in awe of the caster and will obey the character's 
suggestions out of sheer terror of the mage's power. 
Affected creatures treat the mage as their all-powerful 
master, but all effects otherwise duplicate those of a mass 
suggestion spell. This charm effect also can affect elves and 
creatures normally immune to charm spells; subtract 20% 
from such creatures' normal resistances to charm when 
gauging the effects of this spell. Quite obviously, blind crea 
tures are immune to this particular charm spell. 

Healing Touch 

(Alteration, Necromancy), Reversible 
Available to: Guild, Stavros of the Skulls 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S 
Duration: One touch 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: One target 
Saving Throw: None 


When the caster touches a living being, hit points are 
transferred from the caster to the target creature. If the tar 
get is unwilling, a successful attack roll is needed. The 
caster rolls ld6, and this is the number of hit points given 
to another character or creature and subtracted from the 
caster's total. The caster must then make a successful sav 
ing throw vs. spell or be paralyzed for ld4 rounds. Any hit 
points over the target's normal total are lost. This spell, 
when cast upon undead creatures, does damage to them 
equal to the number of hit points lost by the caster. 

This spell was developed by Stavros of the Skulls to ful 
fill an order of the Lords of Waterdeep. With only minor 
adjustments to the casting, Stavros managed to create a 
reversed version of vampiric touch. 

Lightning Rod 

(Alteration), Reversible 
Available to: Guild, Watch 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Special 
Casting Time: 7 
Area of Effect: One object 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell forces magical lightning to a specific spot deter 
mined by the caster. When cast, the wizard chooses a metal 
object to become the lightning rod (a sword, a lamppost, or a 
gold piece). The focal point of the spell cannot be alive or 
heavier than 100 pounds. When any ranged electrical 
attacks occur within 150' of a lightning rod, the energy is 
redirected and absorbed into it, negating the attack and 
destroying the object (if someone is in contact with the 
lightning rod, that person receives the full damage of the 
attack). Unless the lightning rod is struck by a lightning bolt 
or a lightning bug spell (or other magical electricity), its 
magic lasts for up to 48 hours. 

This spell was developed by a watch-wizard to minimize 
random property damage when the watch (or anyone) bat 
tled a mage in the streets. This spell was refined to limit 
lightning bolts and similar energies, as they are a standard 
attack spell. Many watch-wizards cast this spell on metal 
rods, tossing them clear when anticipating spell battles. 
One unscrupulous former mage was sentenced to Under 
mountain for casting this spell on a ring and selling the 
"magical lightning-enhancer ring" to a fellow guild member 
(when the wearer cast his lightning bolt, it centered on the 
ring, killing the mage with his own spell). 



sr\ 



FounVi-Level Spells 

Blacksphere 

(Abjuration, Evocation), Reversible 
Available to: DM's choice 
Range: 10 yards +2 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 2d4 rounds +1 round/level 
Casting Time: 3 

Area of Effect: 10-foot radius globe 
Saving Throw: Special 

Created by a long-since forgotten mage (though some in 
Waterdeep insist it was once known as Hilather's Black- 
sphere), blacksphere is the core spell to the rare magical 
beads of force and the spell effects are nearly identical. 
When cast, a burst of black force erupts at the caster's 
desired focal point, causing ld4 points of damage per level 
of the caster to all creatures within the area of effect (maxi 
mum 10d4 points of damage). If creatures fail their saving 
throws vs. spell, they are also trapped within a 10-foot 
radius blacksphere for the duration of the spell; victims can 
not escape the sphere by any means less than those used to 
destroy walls of force. Successful saving throws allow crea 
tures to escape being trapped in a blacksphere, though they 
still take the full damage from the initial force burst. The 
material components of the spell are a small piece of char 
coal and a small piece of onyx. 

Delayed Magic Missile 

(Evocation) 

Available to: DM's choice 
Range: 80 yards + 10 yards/level 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 1 
Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Saving Throw: Special 

Visually, this spell is nearly identical to the first level magic 
missile spell; however, delayed magic missile allows the mage 
to deal more damage and to stagger the damage over 
extended periods of time. When cast, darts of energy shoot 
from all of the mage's fingertips, collecting into one missile 
just before striking the target creature; the target creature 
must be at least partially in sight at the time of the casting. 
The missile does ld6 points of damage for every three lev 


els of the caster (for example a 12th-level caster deals a 
total of 4d6 points of damage); the initial impact deals ld6 
points of damage to the target, and identical damage is 
taken each round after that until the duration or the total 
damage is reached. This staggered damage prevents spell- 
casters from concentrating on their own spells if it takes 
effect. On each round after the first, the target can attempt 
a saving throw vs. spell at -2 to stave off damage for that 
round; if successful, the creature can act normally, but fail 
ure indicates another ld6 points of damage taken. Regard 
less of previous saving throws, the magic remains potent 
until all damage is dealt or the duration runs out (for exam 
ple, if an opponent makes 11 successful saving throws 
against this spell thrown by a 12th-level mage, he only 
takes the initial ld6 points of damage since the duration 
was 12 rounds, the level of the caster). Like the second- 
level slingstar spell, the delayed magic missile is not deflected 
by shield spells. 

While originally created a decade ago by Khelben 
"Blackstaff" Arunsun and his consort Laeral, this spell 
has become more widely used in more recent years. Made 
for the Lords of Waterdeep, the Harpers, and select allies, 
knowledge of this spell fell into the hands of the Zhen- 
tarim and the Knights of the Shield, who spread its use 
amongst their members as well. While still relatively 
rare, many mages seek this spell for its uses against other 
mages in spell battles. 

Duhlark's Long Reach 

(Alteration, Conjuration/Summoning) 

Available to: Duhlark Kolat; Guild, Watch 

Range: 25 yards + 5 yards/level 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: 1 turn/2 levels 

Casting Time: 7 

Area of Effect: Special 

Saving Throw: None 

This spell creates one arm out of materials present at the 
wizard's chosen area of effect; the arm can form from any 
surface like a wall or from the ground, creating a large arm 
of wood, packed dirt, or stone, though the effects are the 
same. The arm can be normal human-sized or it can be up 
to gargantuan size (3 feet long + caster's level in feet max.). 
Its primary purpose is to grab and hold objects, persons, or 
creatures; it grabs at the first immediate moving target with 
the wizard's THACO with a +2 bonus and it holds its prey 



with the equivalent of 19 Strength, regardless of size. It can 
be used to punch down walls and doors (striking like a bat 
tering ram for 2 points of structural damage) and it can 
punch opponents (wizard's THACO +2, 2d6 points of dam 
age). If created of wood, the arm has an AC of 4, while a 
stone arm has an AC of 0; the arm's hit points are equal to 
the mage's and it collapses when it runs out of hit points. 

The magical arm is under the control of the caster and 
can be used for other purposes beyond capture and attack; 
the caster cannot, while controlling the arm, perform any 
other actions. Like spectral hand, successive spells cast by 
the controlling mage can be projected through the magical 
arm; if performing any other activity, the mage cannot 
move the arm during that round and it freezes in its last 
position. Once formed, the long reach arm is rooted to its 
original creation point and is limited to its specific size. 

While created by Duhlark the Transmuter, a mage of 
Waterdeep, this spell is known for its use by watch-wizards 
and is often referred to as the "Long Arm of the Law." In 
the hands of the watch-wizards, this spell performs many 
functions, like catching fleeing felons, battering down 
doors, halting runaway wagons, tossing Dock Ward rowdies 
into the harbor, and even stretching to rescue children 
trapped in burning buildings before pulling the burning 
wreck down. Duhlark is proud to see his spell in good use, 
but he grows furious if people don't use its "proper title, not 
a populist caricature of a name!" 

The material components for the spell are a small piece 
of wood or stone and a pinch of sulphur. 

Life Bolt 

(Alteration, Necromancy) 

Available to: Guild, Stavros of the Skulls 
Range: 10 yards/level 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 6 

Area of Effect: 1 undead creature 
Saving Throw: Vi 

This spell uses the energy of the caster's own life force 
offensively against undead. By holding an open palm 
toward the target and uttering the incantation, the caster 
sends a pulse of living energy toward the target creature 
(color of the energy depends on general alignment; lawful 
is white, chaotic is red, and neutral is blue). The caster sac 
rifices ld4 hit points to cast this spell; for each hit point 
lost, the caster causes ld6 points of damage to any one 


undead target. Undead get saving throws against this 
attack, with successful saving throws limiting the damage 
by half. The spell has no effect on living creatures. 

Stavros of the Skulls created this spell years ago after 
nearly losing his life to zombies that broke free of his con 
trol. He gave this spell to the Watchful Order of Magists & 
Protectors as part of his penance for damages to Waterdeep. 
Devotees of Mystra, especially priests and mages affiliated 
with the House of Wonder, are eager to learn this spell, as 
Meleghost Starseer, the Magister of Mystra, holds this up as 
an example of how "Mystra grants us the power to protect 
life through our own sacrifices!" 

Life Field 

(Alteration, Necromancy) Reversible 
Available to: Guild, Stavros of the Skulls 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 round/ 3 levels 
Casting Time: 2 
Area of Effect: The caster 
Saving Throw: None 

Stavros of the Skulls' final spell created for the Lords of 
Waterdeep is his most potent creation. By marshaling their 
own life forces, wizards can surround their bodies and 
handheld items or weapons with a shining blue radiance 
known as a life field. Once summoned, the spell remains in 
effect without concentration, allowing the mage to attack 
or cast further spells. If the caster attacks undead with a 
weapon covered in a life field, weapon damage is doubled in 
addition to the caster's level in points of damage (that is, a 
7th-level mage's quarterstaff wrapped in a life field deals 
2d6+7 points of damage to undead). Missile weapons act 
normally since they move beyond the field's range. If 
undead simply come into contact with a life field (that is, 
not one used jointly with an attack, or a hand-to-hand 
attack against someone with an active life field), they must 
make a saving throw or take damage equal to the caster's 
level due to living energy counteracting their undead state. 

While this spell does not affect living creatures (damage 
dealt is normal), further research has uncovered the reverse 
of this spell, death field, which is now in use by a number of 
evil mages including Stavros. All the effects visited upon 
undead are now usable on living targets; the death field is a 
shimmering, dark purple field of energy. The watch-wizards 
have been instructed to arrest anyone seen using this ver 
sion of the spell. 





90 


SbrTb-LeueL Spells 

Duhlark's Animerge 

(Alteration), Reversible 
Available to: Duhlark Kolat 

Range: 5 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: 2 creatures 
Saving Throw: None 

A highly specialized form of polymorph other, this spell 
allows the caster to fuse two creatures together into one 
unique, amalgamated form, allowing a number of traits 
from each creature to remain dominant in its new singular 
form. The polymorphed creature acquires the following 
basic traits from one or the other of the animals involved 
in the merge: Body shape, size, movement modes, speed, 
diet, intelligence, attack modes, defense modes, special 
attacks, special defenses, and armor class. If the caster is a 
transmuter (specialist wizard of alteration magics), the 
caster can choose which traits are adopted in the new form; 
if not, the creature created is randomly determined by the 
Dungeon Master. 

When the spell is cast, both animals must be within 
twenty feet of each other, and the final animerged crea 
ture will emerge in the former location of the larger of 
the two animals. Both animals have to make system 
shock rolls to survive the transformation (60% chance 
of survival); if one fails, the spell fails and both animals 
die. If a caster attempts to merge opposing blooded crea 
tures (warm-blooded birds and mammals vs. cold 
blooded reptiles and insects), there is a 40% survival 
chance for the creatures to be successfully animerged. 
Should either creature have intelligence greater than 
semi-intelligent (2-4), there is a 75% chance that the 
creature's mind will shatter, creating an uncontrollable 
mad animal (see Special Notes below). In such an 
instance, the creature will use every physical ability it 
has to escape and attack anything that moves, perceiv 
ing movement as something causing it pain. 

This spell will not work on any animals that have special 
magical adaptations such as plane shifting powers or fire 
breath. If the spell is used on such creatures, both target 
animals will perish due to the spell conflicting with their 
innate magics. 


For years, Duhlark Kolat's fascination with monsters in 
the Realms drove him out into the world of adventuring. 
His fame and fortune now partially established, Duhlark 
spent the last few years studying animals, monsters, and 
perfecting his transmutation magics. His research into the 
magics of ancient Netheril-as well as personal experience 
with and studies of such creatures as chimerae, gnolls, hip- 
pogriffs, owlbears, and perytons -led him to believe that 
such changing magics were once in common use and the 
continued existence of such wildly illogical animals sug 
gested to Duhlark that such creations could breed true and 
become viable species. Duhlark envisioned a simple dream 
of using such magics to create larger sheep and other 
domesticated animals to prevent food shortages, or perhaps 
creating a war horse with armor-plated skin. 

After much work, he discovered this spell twenty 
months ago and continues to test it, creating new creatures 
to study and examining their viability and usefulness for 
Toril. While the spell itself has no safeguards against its use 
on humans, Duhlark has never attempted to test this line 
of inquiry due to moral distaste. He has not revealed the 
existence of this spell to any other mages in Waterdeep, 
save his brother and Khelben, though some have heard of 
his experiments and rumors fly fast and furious -one 
patently false rumor has Khelben set to kill Duhlark for not 
sharing such a powerful secret! 

Special Notes: When Duhlark developed this spell, he did not 
limit the magic to only affecting animals, not higher lifeforms. 
Whether he realizes this or not, his spell also has the abilities and 
limitations listed below. While his ethics keep him from perform 
ing such horrific experiments, the same cannot be said of other 
corrupt spellcasters who wish to learn this spell. If evil NPC 
mages start using this spell on humans and humanoids us well us 
animals, the results are the Broken Ones in the Monstrous 
Manual; that same book's rules on creating lycunthropes are 
also useful for creating new creatures us well. (These effects and 
problems can be included later in a campaign, should the spell 
become more widely known.) 

When the physical changes and merging occurs, the caster 
rolls ld20, checking against the innate intelligences of the 
creatures involved. If the roll is less than or equal to the lesser 
intelligence, that becomes the dominant mind in the final 
creature. If the roll is greater than the lower number but less 
than or equal to the higher Intelligence, the higher mind is in 
control. If the roll exceeds both intelligences, the resulting 
creature has no conscious mind and is uncontrollable. 



Duhlark's Glasstrike 

(Alteration), Reversible 
Available to: Duhlark Kolat 
Range: 40 yards +2 yards/level 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Casting Time: 4 

Area of Effect: 1 target and all materials within 5-foot 

radius globe 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

When cast, the glasstrike alters all living and nonliving 
material to glass for the duration of the spell, making the 
target quite vulnerable to shattering and breaking. Curi 
ously, this spell doesn't affect magical items; a character 
could be turned to glass but still be wearing viable plate 
mail +2 and a ring of the ram. Living beings under the 
effects of the spell are unaware anything has happened 
and are effectively in stasis during the spell's duration; if 
the caster is a transmuter (and particularly cruel), he or 
she can allow living recipients of the spell to remain con 
scious and aware of their fragile fate. Any material turned 
to glass can be affected by such spells as glassteel or perma 
nency. The spell can be canceled by a reverse casting of 
the spell or by dispel magic. 

One alternate casting method for this spell is to cast it 
on glass surfaces. In this casting, the spell remains viable 
but unactivated and is effective for 24 hours per caster 
level. If something comes into contact with the 
enspelled surface (or is within 2'), the spell then takes 
effect as normal. The caster chooses the parameters of 
the spell trigger in terms of the type of being (i.e. the 
caster could generally specify "the spell will be triggered 
by the touch of a living creature" and have a yard full of 
glass squirrels, or "the spell activates if a humanoid 
touches it," saving the wildlife from a glassy fate) or 
material ("the spell will activate if leather contacts this 
window", "all metals will trigger the spell"). If a material 
is mentioned in the casting (as in this method), only the 
specified material is affected, making it possible for a 
thief to shatter her armor while breaking in through a 
window or a glassy spy to fall to his death, leaving some 
nice magical items behind. 

The material component for this spell is some sand or a 
small piece of glass. 


N)tfTb-LeueI Spells 

Khelben's Dweomerdoom 

(Abjuration, Evocation) 

Available to: Alustriel, Elminster, Khelben, Laeral, the 

Simbul 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: Instantaneous upon impact of focus 
Casting Time: 2 

Area of Effect: 40-foot radius globe 
Saving Throw: None 

This powerful magic allows archmages to drain magic 
directly from spellusers by eliminating the memory of cer 
tain spells. This commanding spell needs to be cast through 
an object-a magical staff, a diamond, a golden crown, 
etc.-that is made the center of the spell effect. This is not 
consumed or harmed in any way by the spell. 

When the spell is cast, the spell focus is charged with the 
magical energy; the item remains charged for up to the 
caster's level in rounds before dissipating. The dweomer 
doom activates when the charged focus item is thrown 
against a hard surface. When it strikes, a green pulse of 
energy flashes out in a 40-foot radius in all directions from 
the item (barriers of less than one-foot-thick solid stone or 
six inches of solid metal are pierced). One spellcaster 
within the radius of effect, chosen by the caster, bears the 
brunt of this spell. When the green energy pulse contacts 
the chosen spellcaster, multiple arcs of energy leap to the 
focus item, draining the spellcaster of as many memorized 
spell levels as the caster of the dweomerdoom. Eliminate 
high level spells first, with any remaining spell levels reduc 
ing the lower level spells until the spell levels are gone (i.e. 
draining 18 levels causes the loss of two 9th-level spells or 
one 8th-level, one 7th-level, and one 3rd-level). 

When the energy pulse meets any other spellcasters (wiz 
ard, priest, or other) within the area of effect, a green 
energy arc leaps to the focus item and drains the memory of 
one spell up to 9th level (DM's choice, highest level spells 
first). There is no limit to the number of spellcasters the 
dweomerdoom affects in this lesser way, provided they are at 
least partially in the area of effect (the caster of the spell is 
immune to the spell's effects, of course). 

The loss of the memorized spells is permanent, but spell 
casters can rememorize the lost spells later (and priests 
need only to pray to restore lost spell capabilities). 




92 










Example: Khelben (W27) flies over a spell battle 
within Waterdeep between Tharchion Buulgast of Thay 
(W20) and Nenex the Aged (W22) that has ruined two 
homes. He casts Khelben's Dweomerdoom on his staff and 
throws it between the two mages, spearing it into the 
ground. Buulgast loses the memory of his shape change 
spell (drained of his most powerful spell automatically). 
Khelben's main target, Nenex, loses 27 memorized spell 
levels from his most powerful remaining spells (one 9th, 
two 8th, and one 2nd): time stop, monster summoning VI, 
sink, and invisibility. 

Khelben developed this spell to deal with the increasing 
number of powerful mages disrupting Waterdeep's peace (or 
so he says; Elminster hints it might involve the many wiz 
ards about the Realms and the planes that challenge Khel 
ben to spell duels). The spell's focus is a signature for the 
casting mage, allowing drained foes to understand just who 
brought this down upon them; Khelben uses his staff, while 
Alustriel uses a moonstone pendant with her symbol and 
Elminster's focus is, of course, his pipe. Most mages very 
often stop and listen to the spellcaster, which was Khel 
ben's alleged intent: "Do you know how difficult it is to get 
the attention of a Red Wizard in the throes of a temper 
tantrum? I think this solves that problem. ..." 

Laeral's Crowning Touch 

(Alteration, Conjuration) 

Available to: Chosen of Mystra (Alustriel, Laeral, Simbul) 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S 
Duration: 366 days 
Casting Time: 7 
Area of Effect: 1 person 
Saving Throw: None 

By casting this spell, the wizard effects a debilitating curse 
upon the target. Effective primarily against mages, the spell 
is initially unnoticeable save to the targets; to them, Mys- 
tra's symbol appears on each of their palms as a glowing 
brand (the brands are invisible to all others unless viewed 
by detect magic or reveal magic). For a year and a day, the 
caster knows he has been cursed by the Chosen of Mystra 
for a transgression against her, or a misuse of power. There 
is no saving throw against the crowning touch. Most priests 
are immune to this spell, as their magic come from sources 
other than Mystra; priests of Azuth and Mystra are, how 
ever, affected by the spell just as wizards. 


The long-term effects of the spell are harsh. Whenever a 
recipient of Laeral's crowning touch casts a spell, he or she 
loses one full level per level of any spell cast, reducing Hit 
Dice, class bonuses, spell abilities, etc. accordingly (a 14th- 
level wizard casts a 6th-level spell and immediately drops to 
8th level, losing 6d4 hit points et al). Physically, the char 
acter's hair gains streaks of silver in it. With each addi 
tional spell, all hair turns silver, and then it all falls out. In 
addition, the caster's hands become gnarled, and sores form 
on the vocal cords, making it harder to vocalize spells as 
well. (These are physical manifestations of the changes 
wrought by the spell, not added penalties.) After the spell 
runs its course, all physical effects vanish, returning the 
wizard to normal; however, the caster is marked for life 
with a visible silver brand of Mystra's symbol on one 
palm-a legacy of the crowning touch. 

If cast upon a lich, the undead spellcaster gains a saving 
throw vs. spell at a -2 penalty. If successful, the spell is 
negated, but a failed saving throw causes liches to suffer 
these altered effects: each time it casts a spell, the lich 
inflicts ld8 points of damage per spell level on itself (the 
crowning touch drains its body of its source of unlife). This 
damage is unavoidable and, if reduced to 0 hit points or 
fewer, can destroy the lich and its phylactery utterly. 

This spell was developed for use only against the 
worst of transgressors. If the touched wizards are intelli 
gent or knowledgeable enough, they realize what forces 
are rallied against them, and spend the duration of the 
spell atoning for their offenses in Mystra's eyes. Effec 
tively, this sends spellcasters into forced retirement for a 
year and a day to avoid losing their power. Fools who 
don't realize who their opponent is or what she can do 
bring punishment upon themselves, draining themselves 
of abilities and scarring their bodies in irreverent, waste 
ful uses of magic. 

Also known across the Realms as "The Sisters' Crowning 
Touch," this specialized curse is a powerful spell created by 
Laeral and shared with only two of her sisters. In fact, only 
the Chosen by Mystra can wield this spell; an unscrupulous 
apprentice of the Simbul's tried the spell, only to have it 
visited on herself! The magic's message is simple: You have 
abused the right to use Mystra's magic and one of her Cho 
sen has called you to task for it. While Khelben and Elmin 
ster are certainly capable of casting this powerful magic, 
they choose not to learn or use it: "We leave it to the dis 
cretion of the Sisters to dole out these personal banes from 
the goddess herself. Some things just require the delicate 
touch of a lady. ..." 







Magical. Items of 
WafeRdeep 

M agical items are numerous and easily found, pro 
vided one knows where to look. The Watchful 
Order sells minor items from their guild hall (add at least 
40% to the gp value), and magical weapons are available in 
rare instances from weapons shops. The watch and guard 
share the largest collective cache of items in the city; it is 
kept under constant guard in Castle Waterdeep, and exists 
to aid the city defenders (wand of paralyzation, ring of the 
ram, rod of absorption, etc.). Where items are found is up to 
the DM, but remember-Waterdeep is a city of merchants, 
and gold is the least PCs will pay. . . . 

Mteceilaweous MagicaL Items 

Broom of Evercleaning 

XP Value: 1,000 
GP Value: 1,000 

This pedestrian magical item is in great demand, and Water- 
deep's Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors are, as yet, the 
only sources of these magical cleaning tools. When a command 
word is spoken, the broom proceeds to vigorously sweep a 10- 
foot radius circle around its starting point, leaving a small pile 
to be collected later. The sweeping takes only two minutes per 
20-foot diameter circle. The magic in the brooms lasts for one 
year, and it eventually crumbles into its own swept pile of dust. 

Dagger of Homing 

XP Value: 1,200 
GP Value: 12,000 

Daggers of homing appear to be daggers of average heft, bal 
anced for throwing with more weight attributed to the tip. 
When thrown, the dagger's magic adds +1 or +2 bonuses to 
hit and damage the target. The dagger delivers ld4 points 
of damage plus its magical bonus, and then it magically 
teleports back to its scabbard at the end of the current 
round. If a dagger of homing misses its target, it still returns 
to its scabbard at the end of the round. 

Known holders of such weapons (NPCs in this box) are: 
Elaith Craulnobur, Travis Deepdell, Donar Heremet, Horth 
Hunabar, Essimuth Lanys, and Danilo Thann. 

Ring of Armor 

XP Value: 2000 per 10 hp of protection 
GP Value: 15,000 per 10 hp of protection 


Alcedor Kolat's newest creation, the ring of armor is a non 
descript silver ring that, when activated by twisting the 
inset sapphire on the ring, wraps the wearer in a protective 
energy field that looks like translucent silver armor. The 
magical field absorbs damage from any physical (blunt, 
edged, or crushing) attack, protecting the wearer until its 
daily limit of absorption is reached. The ring visually mim 
ics different types of armor (the more durable the "armor," 
the stronger the magic). The ring of scale armor absorbs 20 
hp of damage/day, the ring of chain armor absorbs 30 hp of 
damage/day, and the ring of plate armor absorbs 40 hp of 
damage/day. The magic of these rings activates only if an 
attack penetrates other defenses (armor, ring of protection, 
etc.); the damage is then rolled and subtracted from the 
ring's total for the day. 

For example, a courier with a ring of chin armor can run 
through a hail of arrows safely, the ring absorbing up to 30 
points of arrow damage; if she is attacked for 31 points of 
damage or is attacked by a spell, the courier takes damage 
beyond the limits of the ring, which takes 24 hours to 
recharge before being usable again. 

As of yet, no one has a ring of armor beyond the Kolat 
brothers and their apprentice, Branta Myntion. 

Ring of Research 

XP Value: 1,000 
GP Value: 5,000 

A minor magical item at best, but one of infinite use in the 
studies of historians, sages, and mages, the ring of research is 
a simple gold or silver ring with a colored gemstone set in 
it. Wearers state (in three words or less) the item or topic 
on which they wish to find information and proceed to 
touch various objects of printed matter, whether maps, 
books, wall carvings, etc. The gem glows when the ring 
contacts (or comes within a foot of) anything related to the 
stated information; the related material glows lightly in the 
color of the ring's gemstone when viewing the tome (or 
other printed matter). This dweomer over the print lasts 
for one turn after contact. Once the ring activates and illu 
minates an item, it uses a charge; it often takes multiple 
charges to fully research a topic in a large library. The ring 
of research does not translate any text-you might be able 
to find information on Netherese blast scepters but it won't 
help much if you can't read Old Netherese. 

These rings are rare, though two clerics of Candlekeep 
have them, as does Sandrew the Wise of Oghma's temple 
in Waterdeep. Local lore says these items were first found 
in Halaster's library in Undermountain. . . . 





Sleep-Smoke 

XP Value: 75 
GP Value: 500 

Used primarily by the agents of the Xanathar Thieves' 
Guild for kidnaping, sleep-smoke is a dark-gray, smoky gas 
that rapidly dissipates when released into the air. A full 
flask of it will affect a globe 10' in diameter on the first 
round, expanding outward to 20-foot diameter in the sec 
ond round, and being harmless thereafter. (If released in 
windy conditions, the globe will move with the wind.) 

All creatures within the area of effect must save vs. poi 
son at -3 on the first round, and -1 on the second, or fall 
unconscious in 2-5 rounds. Such sleep lasts only ldl2+4 
rounds, but cannot be prematurely ended by any known 
means. Alcohol fumes or intoxication provide a small mea 
sure of protection against the effects of sleep-smoke; intoxi 
cated targets make all saving throws at normal chances. 

Spell-lens 

XP Value: 750 
GP Value: 5,000 

Spell-lenses are small crystal ovals with a socket on one edge 
that magically fit over and fuse to the tip of a wand, rod, or 
staff. All the crystal spell-lenses do is refocus and magnify 
the existing ranged spells of the wand, rod, or staff. The 
spell-lens adds +1 to each die of effect in the item's spells 
(i.e. a wand of fire shooting a fireball now does 6d6 + 6 
points of damage), but it doesn't affect non-ranged powers 
(i.e. a rod of smiting is not affected by a spell-lens). The spell- 
lens also adds 20' to the range of any ranged spells within 
the rod, staff, or wand. 

Adventurers have recently found small numbers of these 
Netherese items in Undermountain and the Dungeon of 
the Crypt, bringing them back to the city for study. With 
their powers, Mhair Szeltune and others of the Watchful 
Order are speculating about carving a spell-lens down and 
embedding one in a ring, allowing mages to enhance their 
cast spells; so far, no one has been able to separate a spell- 
lens from its attached item and all attempts to remove it or 
carve it meet with the spell-lens' destruction. 

Stamp of the Messenger 

XP Value: 200 (silver); 500 (gold) 

GP Value: 1,500 (silver); 5,000 (gold) 

Appearing as a well-crafted wax-seal stamp, this handheld 
silver seal magically produces its own sealing wax. All the 
owner has to do is press this to the flaps of an envelope or 
the edge of a rolled scroll, speak the command, and the 


magic produces a blot of hot wax on the contact point. The 
seal brands into the hot wax, cooling it instantly, and the 
document is ready for a messenger. 

A rarer version of this seal is done in gold (the golden 
stamp of the messenger), and the seal's stamp contains a 
design incorporating wings of some sort. While it magically 
seals letters closed as well, it has an added ability: The 
owner must speak the command word and the addressee's 
name to activate the magic. The seal brands into the hot 
wax, and little waxen wings flutter from the sealed wax; if 
the addressee is within two miles of the sealed document at 
the moment of activation, the wings fly it to its intended 
reader (Flying Speed 24, approximate height of 5' away 
from surfaces and contact until within 40' of addressee). If 
the addressee is beyond that range, the wings fail, and con 
ventional means must be used to deliver the sealed docu 
ment. The magic fails as well if the sealed parcel weighs 
more than one pound. 

In Waterdeep, many of the Guilds use the golden stamp of 
the messenger to deliver messages among their members 
(some guild merchants at the Market use them to request 
supplies on busy days when they can't leave their booths!). 
The guard and the watch use them to deliver reports and 
orders to their troops, a regular flow of flying messages leav 
ing the upper level windows of the Palace and Castle 
Waterdeep. Disturbing in-flight messages is illegal, and the 
watch charges perpetrators with Unlawful Hindrance of 
Business (Lesser crime. Fourth Plaint) or Impeding the 
Swift Process of Law by Delay of Guard/Watch Procedures 
(Minor crime. First Plaint). 

Wand of Fearfire 

XP Value: 1,000 
GP Value: 7,500 

Like the spell fearfire, this wand generates a flashy illusion 
of magical flame and energy like the retributive strike of a 
staff of the magi. Like the staff, the wand of fearfire must be 
broken in two to activate it. Once broken, the illusions 
erupt around the broken wand in a 30-foot radius. The 
item duplicates the spell effects of the 3rd-level wizards' 
spell. 

Created by Alcedor Kolat, the wands of fearfire are 
not available to the buying public (unless you know the 
right people to ask . ..) but are in near-exclusive use by 
the Waterdeep watch-wizards to control any large riots 
or unruly crowds and break up any large-scale mob 
problems. 


AizTifAcTs & Uwique ITems 

Amulet of Alcedor 

XP Value: 6,000 

GP Value: Nil/50,000 (if stolen) 

A unique item of his own creation, this amulet is always 
clasped about Alcedor Kolat's neck. The chain is made of 
platinum links and the amulet itself is a large sapphire 
carved to appear as a clenched fist. Whenever he activates 
it (by touch or by command word), the fist opens its fingers 
and a tight beam of blue light envelops Alcedor's oppo 
nent; the target must make a saving throw vs. spell or be 
paralyzed for ld8 rounds. In addition, for each round the 
target is within the blue light, the amulet drains ld4 points 
of the character's Strength and adds it to Alcedor's own 
Strength; the Strength points return to the target at the 
rate of one point a day. 

Alcedor Kolat created this item for simple reasons and 
with a simple message: "I'd grown tired of every idiot with a 
sword thinking they could get a bit of easy money by 
harassing this old man. Hmph! Force ends up solving noth 
ing, so I created my amulet to prove to them that my open 
fist is more powerful than their closed ones." 



Azuredge, Slayer of the Netherborn 

XP Value: 10,000 

GP Value: 100,000 (750,000 in Waterdeep) 

Azuredge is a medium-sized battle axe forged of silver, elec- 
trum, and steel alloys, its handle cast from solid steel and 
wrapped at the haft in blue dragon skin. A star sapphire is set 
into the pommel. It is as effective as a pure silver weapon 
and is magically enchanted with a number of powers, the 
least of which cause the edges of the axe head to shimmer a 
deep blue at all times. The axe has runes carved into it along 
each edge of the axe and at the center of each side of the 
axe. At various times, the runes flash with blue radiance. 
Smaller runes are also carved into the handle, but these are 
only noticeable under close scrutiny. Though the wide dou 
ble-edged axe appears quite heavy and unwieldy, it is light 
and well balanced in the hands of its chosen wielder. 

Enchanted "to be as worthy a weapon as its wielder," 
Azuredge's powers wax and wane with each new 
wielder. The blue axe's full powers and abilities are 
listed below, as well as when and how said abilities are 
activated: 

• The blue axe has no combat bonuses to hit or to damage, 
but its magical construction allows it to hit creatures 
only affected by silver or magical weapons (even those 
only affected by +3 weapons!). Its damage cannot be 
regenerated save by normal rest, making it an effective 
weapon against trolls! 

• Immediately upon gaining the use of her, the wielder can 
command Azuredge to generate light (as the lst-level wiz 
ard and priest spell). 

• After the wielder reaches 4th level (or employs her for a 
year), Azuredge can be thrown at targets a number of 
times per day equal to the level of the fighter wielding 
her (6th-level paladin = 6 throws per day). Other than 
that and the lack of combat bonuses, this power is identi 
cal to an axe of hurling (including its double damage 
when thrown). 

• At 8th level or greater, the wielder can use Azuredge 
against undead and creatures from the lower planes as 
if she were a mace of disruption. This power is coupled 
with Azuredge's ability to detect evil planar beings and 
undead, those creatures she was forged to slay; when 
ever in the presence of undead or evil beings from out 
side the Prime Material Plane, Azuredge glows brightly 
(whether her wielder wishes her to or not) with cold 
azure flames enveloping the axe head (illuminating a 
40-foot radius). 




. Azuredge is an intelligent weapon (Intelligence 14, 
Ego 12) with a female identity, hence the references to 
the weapon as "she." With this sentience, she is the 
one who chooses who her wielder can be (magically 
sticking to surfaces like sovereign glue until she is 
touched by one she deems worthy); she also has a lim 
ited detect alignment ability usable on her wielders, 
which aids her in her choice (she chooses only good, 
most often chaotic, heroes). She chooses a new wielder 
only after the passing of her previous wielder. She com 
municates by speech or telepathy, though she rarely 
does so until the wielder is 12th level or more (any 
communication previous to this is more apt to be heard 
as whispers or words in a dream). She can also resist 
identification magics at will, relinquishing only the 
information she wishes. 

Azuredge's origins are tied more tightly to the City of 
Splendors than some suspect. More than three hundred 
years ago, Ahghairon was marshaling his power as the pre 
mier mage of Waterdeep under the just, though violent, 
rule of Lady Lauroun, Warlord of Waterdeep. Ahghairon 
saw the last honorable Warlord of Waterdeep fall in battle, 
her body pierced by a score of ores' arrows. Teleporting her 
from the field, he performed her last request, "to ensure 
that she would always be able to aid the defense of Water- 
deep." Having prepared a magical axe to present to her, 
Ahghairon's magic bound a piece of Lauroun's fleeting soul 
to the weapon, making her forever an intelligent presence 
in an item capable of fulfilling her last request. Though her 
memory is not fully Lauroun's, Azuredge remembers her 
creation and history as a weapon. 

Though powerful and eager to be used in the city's 
defense, Azuredge waited six years before her initial use. 
Upon Ahghairon's establishment of the Lords' Rule, the 
axe was given to Kherris-a warrior. Lord of Waterdeep, 
and great-grandfather of Baeron-to dispatch heinous crea 
tures that emerged in the city. Coming from the ruins of 
Halaster's tower, these were the first major dangers visited 
upon Waterdeep from Undermountain. Legends tell of a 
battle late one winter's night, when a flood of ghastly crea 
tures spilled out of Undermountain, intent on wreaking 
havoc in the city herself. Ahghairon's magics slowed them 
but did not stop them all; many breached the magical walls 
around the ruins only to meet a tall, cloaked Lord holding 
the glistening blue axe. Azuredge sent all the fiends back to 
their makers, its glowing blue radiance keeping the evils 
from Waterdeep. 



The axe was not seen again by Waterdhavians until 
the time of Baeron, the next Open Lord of Waterdeep, 
over two hundred years later. After Baeron's passing 
(many attested that the axe disappeared from his belt 
on the funeral pyre), the axe is not mentioned in any 
history of the City until Beryghon, a warrior/blacksmith 
from South Ward, wielded it against Myrkul's forces 
during their invasion of Waterdeep at the Time of Trou 
bles. With Beryghon's fall, his final companion-the 
wizardess Caryn-risked a spell to teleport the axe to 
safety, sending it to Blackstaff Tower. Khelben kept 
watch over Azuredge, and added enchantments that 
allow him to watch over the wielder(s) of the axe (as 
well as provide the magical effects for her reappear 
ance). Khelben and Piergeiron will not interfere with 
Azuredge and her protection of the City, but they plan 
on keeping tabs on the axe and her chosen companions, 
ensuring they do not stray from the Lords' path, 
whether for Waterdeep's good or not. 





Bow of Hosark 


• the bow acts as an amulet of protection against detection and 
location when held or worn over the back; and 

• the bow can change an arrow into a magic missile two 
times/day (the missile does ld6+2 points of damage, but is 
affected as a standard lst-level magic missile spell; this 
power can be used with magical arrows, unerringly deliv 
ering an arrow of slaying to its target as a magic missile of 
slaying, for example). 

Travis Deepdell has been the owner of the Bow for the 
past thirty years, yet he knows nothing of its origins or its 
secrets. No sages have been able to identify it as a known 
artifact, and legend lore spells only produce the beautiful 
illusion of an elven maiden's face that cryptically asks the 
bearer to "take care of the Horn of Moon's Dawning." 
Despite the item's mysteries, many who know of it attempt 
to steal it from Travis, especially Elaith Craulnobur. 

Crown of Horns 

XP Value: 150,000 

GP Value: Nil (it will not allow itself to be sold) 

The Crown of Horns, in its original form, was an electrum 
helm fully covered with small horns and a row of black 
gems around the edge; since its reformation, the Crown is 
an electrum circlet with four bone horns mounted around 
its edge and one large black diamond centered over the 
wearer's brow-while black as obsidian, the stone is clear. 


XP Value: 5,000 

GP Value: Nil/50,000 (if stolen) 

The Bow of Hosark is a beautiful long bow carved from an 
unknown creamy-white wood that makes it look like ivory. 
Curiously enough, some people gazing at the bow see a faint 
carved outline of a unicorn's head along its outer curve; 
only rangers and druids have seen this carving, and take 
this as a sign that this weapon is connected in some way to 
either Mielikki or Lurue the Unicorn (a goddess of the 
Beast Cults). 

Whenever the bow is drawn, the bowstring glows with a 
faint blue light, empowering any arrows with certain magi 
cal abilities (adding even more power to any magical 
arrows). The powers of the Bow of Hosark are: 

• +2 attack bonus or +2 damage bonus to any arrow shot 
by the bow (choose before making attack rolls); 

• the bow magically enhances the archer's eyesight to allow 
longer-range shots (add 50 yards/feet to extreme range; 
long range is treated as medium range, medium range is 
equal to short range, and short range or less is considered 
point-blank range); 


and weird energy dances within the faceted gem. 

While powerful in its first incarnation, the Crown of 
Homs' might has only increased in the past decade. Its 
powers and abilities (derived from Myrkul's essence) are: 

• The Crown of Horns surrounds the wearer with an aura 
similar to the magical aura of a lich; as such, creatures of 
fewer than 5 Hit Dice (or 5th level) who view the 
Crown's wearer must successfully save vs. spell or flee in 
terror for 5-20 (5d4) rounds. 

• The Crown is the host for the last vestiges of the Realms' 
fallen god of the dead, Myrkul. The Crown of Horns once 
only manipulated its wearer and drove it mad; it now 
allows Myrkul to control the wearer with suggestions and 
can (for 20 rounds/day) possess the individual (the pos 
sessed wearer has Intelligence and Wisdom of 20). Don 
ning the Crown of Horns automatically changes the 
wearer's alignment to neutral evil (if the Crown is 
removed, the character's original alignment returns). 

• The Crown's wearer is immune to necromantic spells and 
death magic (automatic saving throw). 




• The Crown slowly turns the wearer into a lich as well; 
the process takes two years of constant contact with the 
artifact, but the wearer speeds the process by using the 
major powers (use of the ray of undeath or Myriad's Hand 
powers reduces the time by ld4 months). Once the 
wearer of the Crown becomes a lich, the process is irre 
versible, and the Crown itself acts as the lich's phylactery. 

• The Crown's wearer commands undead as a 6th-level 
priest (or six levels higher than the current level, if 
already a priest). 

• The Crown's wearer can teleport without error once every 
ten days; this power affects the Crown - bearer, not other 
creatures in contact with him or her. 

• The Crown of Horns' first major power is its ray of undeath, 
a dark energy ray that fires from the black diamond (maxi 
mum of one ray / turn) and covers a conical area 40' long 
and 10' wide at the base. Any creatures within the area of 
effect must save vs. death magic or die; successful saving 
throws save the creatures from immediate death, but they 
still suffer 4-48 (4dl2) points of damage from the necro 
mantic energy. If slain by the ray of undeath, any characters 
rise from death as lesser shadowrath under the total con 
trol of the Crown - bearer (see the Shadowrath 


bles to dust instantly upon the Crown's departure (1% 
chance per level of surviving as a demilich with the char 
acter's original alignment). 

The Crown of Homs is a major artifact of the Realms, 
legends giving it a key role in Netheril's downfall. Created 
by Myrkul, the god of the dead, the Crown of Horns was 
lost for centuries after the death of the magists' kingdom 
until found by Laeral Silverhand and the Nine. Donning 
the Crown, Laeral fell under its influence swiftly, and she 
attacked former friends and allies, including the Harpers. 

Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun saved Laeral from an 
awful fate when, with Mystra's aid and the sacrifice of some 
of his own power, he fought Laeral in a spell battle that 
destroyed a large part of the High Forest's interior (the for 
est is restored, but many strange, magical effects and crea 
tures linger as legacies of the battle); in the end, Khelben 
destroyed the Crown of Horns, reducing it to pieces. Now 
in the role of caregiver, Khelben collected the wild Laeral 
(driven mad by the Crown's destruction), returning to 
Blackstaff Tower in Waterdeep. Over time, Laeral recov 
ered her wits and beauty, and she and Khelben grew closer. 
Today, the power of these mages is insignificant compared 


MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM page). 

• The second major power of the Crown of Homs is Myriad's 
Hand. Similar to the power granted to his specialty priests. 
Myriad's Hand surrounds the wearer's hands with black 
flames for four rounds and can only be summoned once a 
day. If Myrkul's Hand touches any living being, that being 
must make a successful saving throw vs. death magic. If 
successful, the being resists and only takes 1-12 (ldl2) 
points of damage; if the saving throw fails, the character 
dies, consumed by the black flames. After ld4 rounds, the 
being's skin and possessions rise up as a greater shadowrath 
at the Crown - bearer's command (see Shadowrath entry on 
the MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM pages within the 
boxed set). 

• Once donned, the Crown makes its possessor paranoid and 
jealous about the artifact; the bearer does anything to keep 
others away from the Crown. To a lesser extent, it affects 
those in a 100-foot radius, instilling in them a desire to 
possess the artifact (this often forces a conflict with the 
current wearer of the Crown, but also insures that the most 
capable and powerful people wear it). 

. Once donned, the Crown cannot be removed unless 
Myrkul wishes to have a new host; then, the Crown tele 
ports elsewhere without the wearer. If the wearer has 
become a lich while wearing the artifact, he or she crum 






to their love, and Laeral is officially treated as the Black- 
staff's consort. 

After its destruction, Khelben collected the many shards 
of the Crown of Homs and carefully stored them within 
Blackstaff Tower for safekeeping (and to prevent the priest 
hood of Myrkul from gaining any power from it). With 
Myrkul's destruction outside of Blackstaff Tower during the 
Time of Troubles, Khelben and Laeral thought the threat of 
the Crown was over. However, when his avatar was slain, 
Myrkul used his lingering power to send his mind toward 
the greatest remaining concentration of his power in the 
Realms. Given his proximity to Blackstaff Tower, his 
essence forced its way into Khelben's vault where the 
Crown of Homs lay in pieces. Myrkul's divinity and much 
of his former might was granted to Cyric (and later 
Kelemvor) by Ao, but Myrkul was not fully destroyed as his 
last vestiges of energy slowly restored his unholy artifact. 
After a decade of marshaling its strength, the Crown of 
Horns is restored by the will of Myrkul into a new, powerful 
form that is not just an artifact but the vessel of a dead 
god's essence and power, wholly controlled by the mind of 
Myrkul, fallen god of the dead. 

Once the artifact was wholly in its new form, Myrkul 
teleported the Crown of Homs to many places, his hosts 
actively creating shadowrath servants (while many believe 
them a new form of undead, a few erudite sages recognize 
them from times long lost). Spending a year teleporting to 
his former sites of worship, he has kept his existence quiet, 
but has had the Crown - wearers spreading rumors among 
the Cyricists about the Crown and how it could aid the 
worship of Cyric. Myrkul actually enjoys his new existence 
and the ability to foment dissent, chaos, and death without 
the strictures inherent in being one of Ao's gods; his great 
est satisfaction is in disrupting the organization of the 
Cyric-worshipers and in destroying any worshipers of Mys- 
tra (who caused Myrkul's destruction). He would love to 
cause major strife within Waterdeep's temple to Mystra, but 
Myrkul knows Khelben's (and the other wizards of Water- 
deep) power and dares not risk a conflict with him again 
soon. For now, the Crown of Homs rests on the brow of 
Nhyris D'Hothek, a pureblooded yuan-ti who is becoming 
a growing power in Skullport, and Myrkul bides his time 
with this host, relishing the unique evils and dangers of the 
subterranean port city. 


Hedrik's Staff 

XP Value: 800 
GP Value: Nil 

Hedrik's staff was made for him by Alcedor Kolat, who 
befriended the blind boy. The staff has a rudimentary intel 
ligence (Intelligence 6) and a minor telepathic presence 
that mentally tells Hedrik what is within five feet of the 
staff. This ability and presence is enough to help direct 
Hedrik around any obstacles and keep him relatively safe. 
Few realize that this staff is magical, as Hedrik uses it like 
many other blind people to guide his way, but he often sur 
prises people by greeting them by name as they approach. 
In the hands of anyone else, the staff is useless. 

Lliira's Pendant 

XP Value: 3,000 

GP Value: Nil/1 (becomes nonmagical brass if stolen) 
Rachel Arren has never taken off this plain-looking brass 
pendant of Lliira, ever since it was given to her years ago by 
a beautiful spectral dancer (whom she believed to be Lli 
ira). The pendant is unique, and grants the following powers 
to its wearer: 

• +1 protection to armor class; 

• detect lie at all times, as the pendant grows warm when 
truth is spoken to the bearer and becomes chilled if the 
bearer is told lies or mistruths; and 

• the pendant visibly sparkles and glints (even in moon 
light or no light) when Lliira is earnestly praised. 

Staff of Alcedor 

XP Value: 12,000 

GP Value: Nil/125,000 (if stolen) 

The staff of Alcedor is a unique item custom-made by 
Alcedor Kolat for his own use. Made from a gnarled, old, 
seven-foot duskwood branch, its ends shod in brass, the 
staff rings lightly when hit on stone. While it may have 
more powers (DM's choice; limit of five), most people have 
only seen three powers that other mages can identify. 

• The staff generates a magical field akin to a ring of plate 
armor (see above); 

• the staff reflects any invocation magics back upon their 
casters without error (at the cost of one charge); and 

• with a successful attack, the staff of Alcedor can shatter or 
break any nonmagical weapon with a strike (THAC0 roll 
vs. AC -2 to hit weapon specifically; cost of one charge). 







101 


Appendix One: 

T KAvelUtog the NonTh 
by L At<td & Sea 

T here are fortunes to be made in the North, for those will 
ing to risk its dangers. Sword Coast shipping is imperiled 
by the often fierce weather and by piracy (covertly supported 
by Luskan, a city that wants to control all waterborne travel in 
the region). The Lords' Alliance and her member cities' navies 
provide some measure of protection against piracy and smug 
gling, though only obeisance to Umberlee and the sea gods can 
protect the brave (or foolhardy) folk who travel the storm- 
tossed Sword Coast seas. Naval travel, barring random prob 
lems of weather or pirates, averages about 50 miles a day. 

Overland travel is menaced by many monsters, and, as a 
result, usually takes the form of large, well-armed caravans 
accompanied by burly guardians (and wizards and priests, if 
available). The terrain and the need for constant vigilance 
keeps caravan travel slow-25 miles a day is a respectable 
pace. Horses and draft oxen cannot be used to exhaustion 
when one might be attacked at any moment, necessitating 
a quick withdrawal to safety. 

Tn&de In The NonTh 

T he northernmost settlements of the Sword Coast exist 
because of rich mines, and send their ores south by ship. 
Mining is the preeminent trade of a region that is rich in miner 
als and precious stones; agriculture, fishing, and cattle-raising 
are also becoming larger trade industries capable of feeding the 
communities of the North. Ship building and metal working 
are trades found in the larger trading centers such as Luskan, 
Neverwinter, and Waterdeep. Centers for learning are limited 
to Silverymoon and Waterdeep, though many in Luskan 
(mainly those of the Hosttower of the Arcane) dispute this; in 
the western Realms, their closest partner for scholarly pursuits is 
Candlekeep. Amongst all the settlements in the North, caravan 
services (and mercenaries to guard them) are a large part of the 
trading community, though the major trade centers are limited 
to the routes connecting Luskan, Mirabar, and Waterdeep. 

TwJfre RouTes 

The inland community of Mirabar is the richest mining settle 
ment of the Savage Frontier, and must send its metals overland to 


Inxbe & T KAvel 


southern markets via the Long Road or by the Blackford road to 
Luskan. (The river Mirar is too rough and rocky to serve as a nav 
igable river.) From Luskan, the High Road runs along the coast to 
Port Llast and Neverwinter. It continues through Leilon, cutting 
east around the Mere of Dead Men and on to Waterdeep. 

The Long Road runs south from Mirabar through the deso 
late Crags and the village of Longsaddle, past Berun's Hill, and 
then to Triboar. The Dessarin grasslands open out to the east of 
the Road here, stretching south to the sea at Waterdeep. The 
Long Road continues beside the Dessarin to the city through a 
series of small settlements spaced a day's travel or so apart. 

To the east, in the Dessarin valley, lies Nesme, the only set 
tlement in an area roamed by trolls. The lands to the east of 
the valley are largely uncivilized, although they once held great 
kingdoms of old. From the Ice Mountains (a known habitat of 
remorhaz and frost giants) to the north, this region descends 
into lesser peaks where ores dwell in the thousands. Whenever 
their numbers grow too great for the available territory, the ores 
issue forth in great hordes and sweep south; such migrations 
happen once every 50 to 75 years. They have taken only one 
settlement in centuries in the North-the Citadel of Many 
Arrows-and their numbers are suflicient to hold it. 

The mithral mines are the richest subterranean delvings 
known to exist in all Toril and are enough to keep the dwarves 
in the northeast, where their mighty fortress of Citadel Adbar, 
combined with their steadfast courage, keeps the ore hordes at 
bay. A trade-road built by the ancient dwarven king Adbar 
brings the dwarven ores south, and then the road branches 
east to Ascore and west to the fortified city of Sundabar. 

From Sundabar, trade can go west overland to Silverymoon, 
largest city of the interior Savage Frontier. During the few short 
months of summer, the river Raurin is navigable enough to 
allow trade to flow to Everlund. Silverymoon is a strong, 
bustling city and it is the height of human culture in the 
Northern interior. Along a lone crag to its west lies the Her 
alds' Holdfast. To its south lies the walled city of Everlund and 
beyond ranges the mysterious, vast High Forest, a spot rarely 
visited by men. The Unicorn Run emerges from the High For 
est at its southern end, forming the forest's edge with the banks 
of Delimbiyr, the River Shining. Delimbiyr is a swift but 
smooth-running river that is navigable from the Unicorn Run 
to the fortified town of Loudwater and beyond (though, further 
north, travelers only seek trouble with Hellgate Keep). 



Specific TriA&c Roixtes & Trzavet 
Times 

These major trade routes list approximate travel times for 
wagons to reach their final destinations from stated points, 
allowing for major stops along the way. For water routes, 
times are given for travel coming and going to certain 
spots, allowing for the ocean and river currents. Foot move 
ment along roads and trails (assuming an average load) 
moves at IV 4 times slower than the listed overland travel 
time (multiply time by 1.25), while horse travel reduces 
time by 60% (multiply the time by 0.4). 

For example, your party is traveling on foot from Leilon 
to Neverwinter. A caravan takes six days to travel that dis 
tance (a difference of 11 days and 17 days out of Waterdeep 
on the High Road). A PC band can walk this distance in 
7 V 2 days, arriving at Neverwinter on the eighth day out of 
Leilon (6 x 1.25 = 7.5). To travel from Neverwinter to 
Mirabar adds another I 6 V 4 days of traveling (17 and 23 days 
out of Waterdeep = 6 days + 7 days to Mirabar = 13 days 
wagon travel; 13 x 1.25 = 16.25 days). 

If the DM wishes to use other effects on movement, use 
Chapter 14 of the DUNGEON MASTER(r) Guide. 

Land Routes 

Blackford Road (Luskan to Mirabar): 7 days. 

East Trail (Waterdeep to Llorkh): Secomber, 11 days; 

Loudwater, 20 days; Llorkh, 27 days. 

Evermoor Way (Triboar to Silverymoon): Yartar, 2 days; 

Everlund, 15 days; Silverymoon, 20 days. 

High Road, north (Waterdeep to Luskan): Leilon, 11 
days; Neverwinter, 17 days; Port Llast, 19 days; Luskan, 
23 days. 

High Road, south (Waterdeep to Baldur's Gate): 32 days. 
Long Road, north (Waterdeep to Mirabar): Red Larch, 7 days; 

Triboar, 13 days; Longsaddle, 18 days; Mirabar, 26 days. 
Silverymoon Pass (Silverymoon to Sundabar): 6 days. 

Water Routes 

Sea of Swords, Coast route by ship: Waterdeep to Luskan, 
6 days; Luskan to Waterdeep, 8 days. Waterdeep to Bal 
dur's Gate, 9 days; Baldur's Gate to Waterdeep, 7 days. 
River Dessarin, by barge: (Waterdeep (start at Zund- 
bridge) to Silverymoon): Ironford, 6 days; The Stone 
Bridge, 14 days; Yartar, 20 days; Nesme, 30 days; Silvery 
moon, 43 days. Silverymoon to Waterdeep by river, 
reduce all times by 1/3. 





Appewdbr Tcuo: SkulLpotzT 


side from the Lords, their direct 
agents, a contingent of the city guard, 
and the few close-mouthed folk of the 
city who traffic with the lawless port, 
few within Waterdeep believe this leg 
endary port city beneath the waves truly exists beyond the 
tavern songs of sailors and other unsavory denizens of Dock 
Ward. In truth, Skullport exists beneath the South Sea- 
caves of Mount Waterdeep and, while autonomous and rel 
atively safer than the rest, is a significant part of 
Undermountain's third major level. 

What exactly is this place? Located on the banks of the 
subterranean river Sargauth, Skullport is a lawless commu 
nity of shady dealings and cutthroat justice. At its simplest, 
Skullport is merely a dark reflection of Waterdeep: a port 
city (albeit, hundreds of feet below the 'surface) that buys 
and sells any and all things (especially those products 
unavailable or illegal in Waterdeep). 

SkuVLpoizVs Goobs & 
Services 

S kullport serves as a smuggling and trading base for 
stolen cargo (or cargo that is illegal in Waterdeep), 
and as a home for those not welcome or safe in the City of 
Splendors. Drugs and slaves can be found in its dark ways, 
and its inhabitants include mind flayers, drow, vampires, 
gargoyles, beholders-and worse. Laeral, the Lady Mage of 
Waterdeep (in addition to "Kitten" and certain Lords' 
agents), keeps watch on Skullport for the Lords of Water- 
deep. She took on this dangerous, sometimes disgusting 
task because, while she sees the necessity for Skullport (to 
keep the City Above from open lawlessness), Khelben feels 
he must act when he sees its evils. 

The SIav&tzs' Tnade 

Slaves are the first thing most visitors to the Port of 
Shadow seek, having fancies of sensual pleasure-dens or 
eerie laboratories where screaming unfortunates have mon 
ster parts grafted onto them. Little of either such thing goes 
on these days-both extremes tend to drive down the mon 
etary worth of slaves. 


Most slaves are kept on Skull Isle, the large island that 
serves as Skullport's main docks. Here the smell of crowded 
captives is as far from the settlement as possible, and the 
slaves are kept close to washing and drinking water and to 
the ships that bring them or carry them away. They are also 
separated from a chance at escape into the monster- 
haunted river depths. 

Skullport has always been home to "snatch bands," who 
can be hired to kidnap people within the port or in the city 
above. Its most prominent professional slaver at present is 
Zstulkk Ssarmn, a yuan-ti who heads a small, band of pure- 
blood warriors and halfbreed "whips" (jailers). Zstulkk's 
yuan-ti have extensive merchant contacts in the Shining 
South, and some are skilled in doctoring (for steep fees). 

Ahmaergo "the Horned Dwarf," is the other major 
slaver of Skullport. He can be contacted through various 
"mouths and runners" at the Black Tankard. His office, 
somewhere under Skullport, is reached through dark sew 
ers, and guarded by several undead beholders (death 
tyrants, described in the Monstrous Manual). Ahmaergo's 
horn-adorned black armor, which he never seems to 
remove, harbors many magical weapons. Formerly just the 
agent of the Eye and the Hand (see the Ruins of Under 
mountain boxed set), Ahmaergo was given full reign over 
the Eye's slaving operations north of Skullport, while the 
Eye continues consolidating the Xanathar Thieves' Guild 
(see Chapter Six of Who's Who in Waterdeep); the Hand, 
the elite snatch band of slavers under Ahmaergo's partial 
command -he shares this command with two other 
agents of the Xanathar-is made up of any number (DM's 
choice) of 2nd- through 4th-level fighters, all of whom 
are immune to sleep-smoke (see Chapter Seven). 

A Cme f or WhaT Alls Ya_ 

Second in importance to slaves in Skullport's illicit trade 
markets are the wide variety of substances used to alter the 
senses of many different beings of the Realms-drinkables, 
poisons, pain-killers, and potions. These are offered at 
every other dark doorway and corner, but the two sources 
with the largest stock and best (if that's the word) reputa 
tions are Vhondryl and Shaun Taunador. 

Vhondryl has permanent rooms at the Deepfires. (Some 
believe she may secretly own the place; she has ready 
access to its bodyguards and secret passages.) She is a thin. 






silent, mysterious lady with chalk-white skin, knee-length 
blonde hair, and rather plain features. Her eyes are straw- 
yellow, and she is known to ardently worship Loviatar. She 
can supply any drink, poison, or potion known to the 
Realms (and all the known antidotes) on short notice, 
commands fabulously high prices, and has magical powers. 

Her chief rival, Shaun Taunador, has lower prices but a 
far more sinister reputation. He does business from a barge 
on the Sargauth moored just off the docks, or in short- 
rented rooms at the Crowing Cockatrice. A mind flayer of 
awesome powers and a titan among his own kind, he is 
always surrounded by a trained bodyguard of loyal monsters 
(of controllable sorts) and human thugs. 

Whew You Need To Get A Head . . . 

The next most important trade, in Skullport is the brisk 
business in cadavers and body parts. Although many dabble 
in this work, the present "powers" in the field are Mhaug, 
the Cryptkey mages, and Shradin, the Lord of Bones. 

Mhaug is an annis (see Hag in the Monstrous Manual) 
who spends much of her time watching events from the 
doorway of her gruesome shop at the edge of the docks. She 
hangs corpses by the neck as ornaments until sold; the flop 
ping-headed undead created from them are derisively called 
"Mhaug-hogs." 

Cryptkey Facilitation is a tomb-robbing organization 
active in the City of the Dead and in the countryside 
around Waterdeep, procuring "exhumed-to-order" corpses 
and body parts. The organization's members - estimates 
range from eight to twelve in number-wear masks and 
rarely, if ever, speak. For those who wish to create undead, 
the mysterious mages who run Cryptkey sew up wounds, 
wire bones together, and fix bones and joints with magic, 
such as mending and Nulathoe's Ninemen spells. Their shop 
in central Skullport is guarded by many undead, including 
an impressive skull-headed ettin and a scuttling legion of 
crawling claws. 

Shradin's Excellent Zombies is a dingy, run-down shop 
in the inner reaches of Skullport; parts of it seem more 
ruined than usable. The haughty, heavily-armed-with- 
wands Shradin, also known as the Lord of Bones, is a 
rather unstable archmage who has developed necroman 
tic spells far beyond what most mages know (and is 
rumored to the mentor of many of Waterdeep's more 
powerful necromancers). He sells or rents out "claws" of 
controllable zombies, for guarding, carrying, and loading 
work. A claw consists of four "normal" zombies linked to 
the control of a "leader" (ju-ju) zombie. Shradin's 


scepters, each topped with a severed hand, enable clients 
to control particular "leader" zombies. The Lord of Bones 
himself is said to have a master "Skull-Staff" that can 
override all the scepters he sells. 

Have Suooizd, W)LL Travel 

Skullport has always held an ample supply of mercenaries 
and swords for hire, from fully-trained and equipped body 
guards to desperate outlaws. Deserters from surface armies, 
adventurers down on their luck, and "bravos" (pirates too 
untrustworthy to serve as regular crew, or who currently 
lack a seaworthy ship) are always plentiful. The presence of 
large, organized bands of professional warriors tends to keep 
open, widespread warfare (as opposed to spontaneous 
brawls) outside Skullport itself. 

The nature of this work tends to make today's hero 
tomorrow's fading memory, but two rivals currently share 
Skullport's hiresword stage: Rhaunaguth and Dalagor. 
Rhaunaguth is a gallant, dashing, handsome former pirate 
who leads his band of jolly, pranksome, hard-drinking 
bravos into action as guards or ambush and sabotage teams 
in Undermountain and Waterdeep. His colorful swash 
buckling style stands in sharp contrast to that of Dalagor 
"the Cold," a calculating, vicious man who provides the 
same service with an army of ju-ju zombies and reckless 
curst (see the MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM page 
within the boxed set), who fear nothing-and thus make 
deadly opponents. There is an up-and-coming figure 
recently arrived in Skullport in the past few years who is 
usurping both mens' businesses; known as Lord Buronae 
Trilluach, this half-elf has a phenomenal number of con 
tacts throughout the Realms, and is stealing contracts away 
from Dalagor and Rhaunaguth. If they could find his home, 
Trilluach would be slain instantly; the first few assassina 
tion attempts on the man could not even penetrate his 
magically-summoned bodyguards, and served only to 
heighten tensions among the trio of mercenary lords. 

SmuggUMg Seizv)ees 

Perhaps the wisest inhabitants of Skullport are those whose 
prices are lower, but whose trade is of less danger and wider 
variety than others: the traders, shippers, and moneylen 
ders who arrange smuggling, build containers with false 
bottoms, or repack easily recognized stolen goods so that 
they can be readily resold-back to their original owners as 
replacements, for instance! -and so on. These beings must 
be shrewd to survive for long, for they cannot avoid Skull- 
port's many-fold intrigues. 


Most powerful in this field at present are Misker and 
Malakuth Tabuirr. Misker is called "the Pirate Tyrant" 
(though not to his face) because he is an old, wart-covered, 
very large beholder who wears black eyepatches over two of 
his eyes. Those who have dwelt in Skullport a long time 
warn newcomers that Misker's eyepatches do not conceal 
missing or damaged orbs-but unique eyes whose destruc 
tive blasts are powerful enough to easily rend dragon's hide, 
magical armor, and adamantite alike! This may be mere 
rumor, but the wise place no bets on the success of anyone 
stupid enough to challenge Misker; something those wild 
for entertainment - or wishing to learn more about his 
powers-have been known to hire fools to do . . . 

Misker is not the only beholder regularly found in Skull- 
port - but the other one, Seirtych Xantaun, keeps to the 
shadows, operating in much greater secrecy. The beholder 
rivalries are legendary for cruel one-upmanship and cordial 
face-to-face relations, but also much death and maiming 
between servitor underlings in dark alleyways and in the 
wild depths of Undermountain. Misker is clearly the victor 
over his rivals in present-day Skullport-but some say that 
Misker lives only so long as the Eye does not to come to 
town . . . 

Malakuth Tabuirr is a scheming drow, who worships 
Vhaeraun (see FOR2 Drow of the Underdark), and uses fel 
low worshippers as thieves and spies in his service. He 
trades poisons, deepwine, and drow armor, weaponry, and 
magic items in return for slaves, whom he takes into the 
depths (presumably to drow cities). Beautiful human and 
elven females command his highest offers. 

The SkullpoRT SkyUKie 

S kullport teems with such colorful, dangerous folk, but 
what does the visitor actually see? Well, it's dark- 
always too dark for a surface dweller's comfort. The map in 
the Ruins of Undermountain boxed set, partially reprinted in 
this appendix, can't show the criss-crossing and everchang- 
ing network of rickety wooden catwalks that link the 
homes and shops of Skullport on many levels. These pro 
vide space for hanging out washing-or the corpses of 
defeated foes, left as grisly trophies and warnings. They are 
also many-leveled stages for spectacular fast-paced and 
acrobatic sword fights. 

The catwalks and the upper areas of the Skullport cavern 
are home and habitat to a wide variety of fearsome creatures. 
Some very sly mimics lurk about these everchanging cat- 
walks-and, in fact, are parts of the catwalks. The catwalks 


sometimes serve a strategic purpose for the pedestrians: In 
years past, a gigantic gray ooze also once lurked about Skull 
port, but soon became too great a problem; it was destroyed 
spectacularly some time ago by a group of wizards (after a 
long drinking bout), along with many of the nearby build 
ings, catwalks, bystanders, and some of the stone floor and 
ceiling of the cavern. Visitors to Skullport will also notice a 
lot of will o' wisps drifting about; these creatures never 
attack directly, but try to lure the unwary out of settled areas 
to their dooms deep in Undermountain. 

The streets also hold cages of monsters that can be 
bought dead or alive (for spell or potion components, 
experimentation, sport hunting, eating, the pleasure of 
their company, or guard-use). There are dung-heaps where 
enterprising goblins grow exotic mushrooms favored by 
Waterdhavian nobles, and even shops where adventurers 
who make it this far can purchase trophies and relics of 
Undermountain-such as dragon skulls-to impress folks 
back on the surface. 

The HIsTorv of 
Skulipont 

U ndermountain and Skullport are inseparable in all but 
name, though this is one area of the Under-Realms 
which Halaster doesn't include as part of his dominion. 
Granted, he has been known to gate in a few of his more 
fearsome "pets" now and again, but he himself never 
overtly enters Skullport. This arrangement has been in 
effect for the last two centuries of Skullport's existence, all 
due to the power of Shradin Mulophor. 

Halaster and his former apprentices all have cause to 
honor a pact of nonaggression with Shradin, some out of 
respect for his power and some from fear of the same. 
Strangely enough, Halaster honors the pact out of friend 
ship-Shradin, an old comrade and contemporary from the 
fading lands of Netheril, has impressed his fellow wizard in 
his mastery of the necromantic art. Shradin is one of few 
men or beings to have met (nay, exceeded) Halaster's expec 
tations and gained his friendship. Shradin soon found his 
way to the Blackcloak's domain in Undermountain. Upon 
finding the large skull-infested cavern, he simply asked for 
Skullport as a personal demesne and was granted it. 

When Shradin and Halaster first discovered the cavern 
complex that would later become Skullport, the floating 
skulls were already there. Shradin's intense investigations 
of these phenomena continued for nearly a decade, but 
how much the master necromancer learned is unknown. 



Allegedly, Halaster quitted the place nearly 220 years ago 
and has only returned three times in the intervening years. 
Few pretend to know what the Master of the Underhalls 
thinks of this place, but many point to him as the architect 
of the macabre sentinels of Skullport. The truth on this 
matter is known only to Shradin, Halaster, and the skulls 
themselves, and none of them are talking. 

Shradin and Halaster, it is told, took to clearing out much of 
the rubble of an older city within the cavern proper, a task 
requiring one year alone. It is said that the only building which 
predates those of the current Skullport is Shradin's own, the 
tumble-down stone building which contains his shop. 

Shradin spent an additional number of years populating 
Skullport. The Sargauth was magically connected with 
deeper rivers to allow trade with the Realms Below. Shradin 
himself set up the initial trade routes and agreements with 
the Shunned Races of Toril-the drow, duergar, illithids, and 
svirfneblin. While a large number of Skullport's denizens 
began as drow and other Deep races, an increasing number 
of adventurers forged their way into Skullport. The Port of 
Shadow grew by leaps and bounds, filling the cavern within 
25 years. Buildings and homes were constructed from the 
rubble of the previous settlement as well as wood from the 
various shipwrecks out on the Sea of Swords (hauled in by 
Shradin's undead and other agents). 

Within the first eight years as an active port, Shradin 
and his undead engineered and constructed the massive 
hoist in the South Seacaves to allow direct access to the 
port from the Sea of Swords. With this construct came the 
notice of the Lords of Waterdeep. For the sake of Water- 
deep's order and trade, the Lords were actually glad to hear 
of the existence of Skullport. Having used the Underhalls 
as a place to banish prisoners, Skullport was a perfect place 
to punish unscrupulous merchants as well as acquire rare 
and wondrous items not found on the surface Realms. The 
hoist was constructed and the Lords banished a number of 
truly dishonest Waterdhavian merchants to Skullport's 
shadowed merchants' quarter. Few lasted long, but a small 
number have thrived in the shadows. 

After a decade of venturing down in the Deep Realms, 
Shradin allegedly went mad from encounters with 
unknown horrors lurking far away from any civilized out 
posts. He returned to Skullport a very unstable personage, 
and remains so to this day. Shradin no longer commands 
the respect of the dwellers and traders of the Port of 
Shadow, though he is still given little trouble due to his 
powerful wands and occasional spellcasting. 


NaTh?es of SktAlponT 
Select PoweR GRoups 

Hired Horrors 

There is a company known as the Hired Horrors, run by several 
softspoken, gentleman mages. They breed deepspawn (beasts 
that produce other monsters, detailed in the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(r) Campaign Set) in some secret location, and have 
developed spells to teleport such creatures into desired areas. 
When hired, they deliver a deepspawn directly into the home 
or headquarters of a client's rival or enemy-m the cellar of a 
Waterdhavian noble's villa, for example, or the sewers near an 
important warehouse. Until destroyed, the deepspawn will pro 
duce many lesser but deadly monsters. 

The Skulls 

The skulls of Skullport are the sentinels of order in an 
otherwise dangerous place. Shradin, being the first settler 
and merchant here, set up an unwritten code which is told 
to any arriving into Skullport-"This be safe haven to all 
traders and customers; keep thine weapons and thine 
uncivil tongue sheathed lest ye find the grinning skull of 
Death smiling in thy face." Only a select few actually 
believe (or even remember) this tale-many believe that 
the skulls set up this law even before Shradin arrived. The 
skulls enforce this beneficial code of behavior as well as 
their own code - unfortunately, they don't divulge their 
own code, but simply order beings to perform seemingly 
random tasks. Such tasks in the past have included climb 
ing to the ceiling of the cavern and shouting a certain per 
son's name twelve times, going to the Crock and Helm and 
polishing the bar, venturing north of the city and into the 
caverns to retrieve ten rocks of a certain color, or buying a 
slave of a certain name and setting him/her loose into the 
Sargauth. At times, the skulls' demands seem illogical, but 
the power they appear to wield keeps few from ignoring 
their requests. They rarely make requests of clearly power 
ful beings, though trouble makers and braggart adventurers 
often find themselves subject to the more degrading of tasks 
("Go help that poor goblin harvest his mushrooms, eh?). 

If the rule of safe haven is broken or if a being refuses to 
follow the dictates of one of the skulls, they summon a wiz- 
shade to escort the offending being(s) from the Port of 
Shadow. If met with steel or spell, the wizshade will attack 
in kind, removing the lawbreaker from the port dead or 
alive and with as much or as little destruction as necessary. 





107 



Of course, long-time natives of Skullport, few as they 
are, also tend to deal harshly with those who do not follow 
the law of Skullport: They have learned by example how 
much destruction (and lost profit) comes from having the 
wizshades arrive. Many of the merchants, as well as some 
frequent customers, will escort any and all wrong-doers 
away from their businesses-if not out of Skullport alto 
gether - to prevent undue damage to their goods when 
things get out of hand. 

Select NPCs of SkullporzT 

Aekyl Dafyre (N hm T5; DEX 17, CON 15, CHA 16): 
Aekyl Dafyre is a short, dour human with thin, brown hair 
pulled back into a ponytail, a pencil-thin moustache, and a 
dark complexion. His mood is almost always bad, most peo 
ple only hearing grunts and grumbles when they speak to 
him. Nearly 20 years past, Aekyl was the premier cartogra 
pher and guide through Undermountain's uppermost levels, 
guiding thrill-seeking nobles and guard patrols through the 
twisting tunnels of Halaster's lair. His sense of direchon 
and skill at map-making were legend . . . until the corri 
dors, and his luck, took a wrong turn. 

Escorting a trio of nobles through the northwestern pas 
sages of Undermountain's Level Two, Aekyl took an unfa 
miliar path, thanks to Halaster's teleport gates, and he 
failed to recognize warning signs of active monsters. Soon 
after, the party was ambushed by two owlbears. Aekyl and 
one of the nobles escaped with their lives, but Aekyl lost 
the use of his left arm due to severe clawing by one mon 
ster. Once safe in the Yawning Portal, the noble ordered 
him arrested for the murder of their companions. In a 
panic, Aekyl fled back into Undermountain, and made his 
way to Skullport. 

His injured arm prevented him from safely adventuring 
and his map-drawing career ground to a halt. With his mea 
ger savings, he secured rooms at The Deepfires, and began 
drowning his sorrows for days and nights on end. The skulls 
took notice of him, sending him into the caverns east of 
Skullport to find a "dragon's tooth." Aekyl returned to 
Skullport unharmed with a magical short sword of dancing 
("Dragon's Tooth" carved into the blade in Dethek runes), a 
pouch full of emeralds, and a pair of boots. The skulls simply 
nodded and let him keep his spoils. 

Aekyl now operates his new mapping shop close to the 
Deepfires, his customers keeping him well-fed and clothed 
in style. His magical boots of guiding now do the mapping 
for him, though his customers don't know this. All Aekyl 


does is walk through the dungeons with slow careful steps. 
After covering the areas required by his contracts, he 
returns to his shop, removes his boots and, on a command 
word, the boots shrink to the size of rice grains and retrace 
the previous day's steps in permanent marks on parchments 
or vellum. His maps are well known as "Aekyls's boot- 
prints," and their accuracy on a map for the Lords of 
Waterdeep secured a dismissal of charges for Aekyl's alleged 
crime. Now, Aekyl prefers the intrigues (and profits) of 
Skullport, and plans an indefinite stay in the area. 

Irusyl Eraneth (CG hf W25; DEX 18, INT 18): A 
known information broker, Irusyl can often be found in the 
Burning Troll and the Deepfires in Skullport, always seated 
in the back facing the door. Her long, black hair and 
arched eyebrows are about all any can make out of her fea 
tures, the rest obscured by heavy, black robes and a hood. 
Irusyl buys and sells knowledge from and to anyone, and 
hears every rumor, large or small, that is uttered in the tav 
erns of the cities above and below. 

Irusyl is simply a magical disguise and identity that 
Laeral, the Lady Mage of Waterdeep, uses while she is in 
Skullport; only the Lords, Khelben Arunsun, Kylia, and 
Duhlark Kolat are aware of this. 

Shradin Mulophor (NE hm W(N)21; INT 19): For all 
intents and purposes, Shradin Mulophor is an unstable, 
doddering old mage who many believe stays alive "only 
because of his marginal usefulness with undead." In truth, 
Shradin is the Lord of Skullport, though he makes sure 
no one realizes that fact. He fakes his "insanity and insta 
bility" to promote his foes' underestimation of his power 
and ability. Without having to openly show his power, he 
is left in peace by the many unscrupulous inhabitants of 
the Port of Shadow. If there are any foolish enough to 
steal from Shradin's own shop, there are none left alive 
to talk of it. 

Shradin's shop takes the majority of the space in his 
building, the laboratory and main sales room occupying 
more than half of the total building. There is a small room 
in the back with Shradin's sleeping pallet and a small chest, 
but this is simply a front. Concealed behind a lethal yet 
impressive array of deadly magics is a secret trapdoor which 
leads down beneath Skullport. The main dungeon covers 
two different levels, both extending to the north and west 
under the port. Formerly a temple to a lost god of the kuo- 
toan race, Shradin has created a luxurious palace filled with 
magical and monetary treasures. He has shared these 


108 


secrets with only four people in the past 200 years: 
Halaster, Raella Hiess, Laeral (under her alias as Irusyl 
Eraneth), and Vhondryl. He trusts these people enough to 
drop his facade of the idiot (though he wonders where Iru- 
syl's loyalties lie) when in private and they are privy to 
secrets of Skullport many spies from the City Above would 
give their souls to hear. 

Shradin, despite his unassuming role as a fool, carries 
an impressive and daunting collection of magical para 
phernalia on his person at all times. In full view, he wears 
a cowl of warding, bracers of defense AC 5, a cloak of reflec 
tion, a wand of fire, a wand ofparalyzation, a ring of protec 
tion +3, and a ring of the ram. Hidden from view, Shradin 
also habitually carries a Netherese blast scepter, a wand of 
fear, a wand of size alteration, and a horned ring, a gift from 
Halaster. His spellbooks contain every known necroman 
tic spell in the Realms. 

Sangalor of the Secrets (LN illithid P(Sp) 11 of 
Oghma): Sangalor is a strange being indeed: an old, soft- 
spoken and gentlemanly sage who always wears dark red, 
purple, or black robes, covered with glyphs and runes. His 
trade is finding out secrets for inquirers who pay well; this 
vocation is in no way hampered-though his clientele is 
kept small, and tending towards the desperate who cannot 
afford to bargain with Irusyl Eraneth-by the fact that San 
galor is an illithid, his tentacles and hairless head mottled 
white with age. "He" (though illithids are sexless, Sanga- 
lor's deep voice and occasional interest in the company of 
human females leads most folk of Skullport to regard him 
as "male") is a specialty priest of Oghma. The human 
females, by the way, are sages and specialty priests of 
Oghma that Sangalor is teaching lore to-his special ser 
vice to Oghma's priesthood. 

As a devout and energetic worshipper, Sangalor enjoys 
the spells available to human priests of the deity, and all 
the abilities of a specialty priest, as detailed in the 
FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Adventures sourcebook. Over 
the years, this quiet but effective adventurer has amassed a 
large (and well-hidden, in many small caches, guarded by 
traps and various sorts of guardian monsters) collection of 
scrolls and magic items. He can use these to trade for more 
exotic magic, save his life by unleashing surprising power 
when threatened, aid fellow faithful of Oghma, or take 
revenge on encountered foes. 


Sangalor can be hired to "question" particularly recalci 
trant (and valueless) prisoners by devouring their brains 
and thereby (through spells he has developed) clearly gain 
2d4 of their hidden thoughts, though he is reluctant to give 
in to this temptation too often, as he feels it's part of the 
baser nature of illithids that he has risen above. He will 
never use it against good or neutral beings. This fatal inter 
rogation will always focus on a specific name, word, or site 
Sangalor is after - thoughts can be gained despite magical 
safeguards, with the first one sought 77% likely to be found, 
the second 66% likely, and so on, down to a minimum 
chance of 22%. 

Sangalor has amassed relevant spells and an expert tech 
nique for interrogation (and at making the being forget all 
about the interview, afterward), and thereby makes a living 
charging 10-100 gold pieces per answer (the price varying 
with time and danger involved, importance, and amount of 
discretion guaranteed). 

Sangalor enjoys most learning the secrets of others. He 
loves playing a "father confessor" to citizens of Skullport 
and Waterdeep alike. He reserves his chief hatred for the 
arrogant behavior of most other mind flayers, his evil 
brethren (many of whom, upon learning of his station and 
lifestyle, attack him). In the short term, Sangalor is inter 
ested in forming an alliance with a company of adventur 
ers, so that he can rely on their protection in occasional, 
highly-dangerous adventuring forays, and use them to seek 
out and slay all hostile illithids in the vicinity of Water- 
deep, Skullport, and Undermountain. If he can't do this 
through friendship and an exchange of aid and services, he 
will try to do it covertly, by manipulation. 

Vhondryl (LE hf Psil4; WIS 17, CHA 18): Vhondryl is 
one of the top potions dealers in the Port of Shadow, 
though she keeps a low profile by working through interme 
diaries. Only buyers of truly rare or dangerous concoctions 
deal directly with Vhondryl-the petty poisons not worth 
her time away from "managing The Deepfires." This quiet 
and cryptic lady can truly supply any drink, poison, or 
potion known on Toril, but commands fabulously high 
prices; many find the prices reasonable given the rarity of 
some requests. Never one to be cheated or threatened, she 
has strong powers of the mind (though she hasn't advanced 
further with her powers in over ten years). (If your cam 
paigns do not use the Complete Psionics Handbook or psion- 
ics, Vhondryl can be changed to a 13th-level transmuter 
(specialist wizard).) Her psionic powers are the following: 



Psionic Strength: 171 points. 

Psychoportation: Banishment (14), Teleport (15), Tele 
port Other (12); Dimensional Door (17), Dimension Walk 
(16), Teleport Trigger (15), Time Shift (16), Time/Space 
Anchor (14). 

Psychometabolism: Energy Containment (16); Body Con 
trol (14), Cell Adjustment (15). 

Psychokinetics: Detonate (15). 

Telepathy: No sciences; Contact (17), False Sensory 
Input (14), Identity Penetration (14), Psionic Blast (14). 

Psionic Defense Modes: All 

Vhondryl has rooms at The Deepfires as a secret gift 
from Raella Hiess, the behind-the-scenes proprietress of 
The Deepfires. Vhondryl lets people believe she owns the 
establishment, while Raella, an accomplished mage (LN hf 
W10), acts as a simple barmaid. Raella and Vhondryl have 
been companions for years, having saved each other's lives 
mutual times. Vhondryl knows that Raella uses the inn as a 
place to collect information for the Lords of Waterdeep, 
but this is kept between the two of them. Raella and Irusyl 
Eraneth are close acquaintances, and exchange information 
often; Laeral (Irusyl) describes Vhondryl as a "powerful but 
vain and petty potion-peddler." 

Nevus & Rumors of 
SkuVLpont 

• For about eight years, a small group of dwarves had laid 
claim to a cave under Skull Isle-a cave with walls and 
floor of solid mithral! The cave is accessed through the 
Skullpool river basin, and only small-sized demihumans fit 
through the tunnel which surfaces into the cavern. What 
mithral they mined was converted into weapons and 
armor at Thaglar's Foundry. Mysteriously, no one had seen 
any dwarves, including Thaglar, for two months; upon 
investigating the cave, there was no mithral to be found, 
or anything else of value either-the dwarves and their 
treasure apparently vanished into thin air! 

• Over the years, various frightened people have been 
found drifting in the River Sargauth, fished out just 
before they died, and their stories have begun to overlap 
and set people to wondering exactly what lurks beneath 
the Sargauth. The reports, gasped out in desperation, 
involve "gold awash with blood, and thousands of eyes- 
horrible green eyes!"; "silver-edged water and waves with 
teeth"; and "Beware the gibbering torrent! It hungers for 
metal and blood!" 


. A number of slaver ships that travel the inner reaches of 
the Sargauth have begun complaining about more fre 
quent shipwrecks along the northern reaches above the 
Lair of the Eye (see the Ruins of Undermountain boxed 
set); while they passed the wrecks, they were pursued by 
something moving incredibly swiftly beneath the water. 
One cabin boy reported seeing a silver dorsal fin on a 
black-scaled humanoid body. While few are fully believ 
ing this story, many more mercenaries are being hired as 
onboard guards. 

> Rumors abound about Sangalor moving to the surface 
once the temple to Oghma is complete in Waterdeep; 
while many talk of this, Sangalor remains quiet on his 
plans (though he has settled many of his outstanding 
affairs and has been looking to sell his home . . . ). 

• While no one can pinpoint where and when it will 
strike, a nyth has made Skullport its home, posing as a 
caged driftglobe light. It usually strikes lone targets and 
then moves to a new location; nine people have been 
found dead within seven weeks of its arrival. 

• For now, the Crown of Homs rests on the brow of Nhyris 
D'Hothek, a pureblooded yuan-ti who is becoming a 
growing power in Skullport, and Myrkul is relishing the 
unique evils and dangers of the subterranean port city. 
Myrkul, through the Crown, is manipulating his host 
into inciting a coup and taking over Zstulkk Ssarmn's 
slaving operations; they are quite cautious and moving 
slowly at this task, stealing some slaves and turning 
them into shadowrath (see the MONSTROUS 
COMPENDIUM sheet), causing problems for Ssarmn 
and others in Skullport. 

. The Eye, now posing as the Xanathar, used his agents to 
manipulate another beholder from Skullport, Uthh, into 
attacking Xanathar in the sewers below Waterdeep; 
once Xanathar defeated Uthh, the Eye moved in, easily 
destroyed the weakened Xanathar, and absorbed its 
operations. Now, with his slaving affairs in Undermoun 
tain and Skullport managed by Ahmaergo, the Eye (as 
the Xanathar) is one of most powerful beings in the 
region, and his power grows steadily (and only a few 
select beings know that the Eye and Xanathar are now 
one and the same). 

• Deep within the shadows of Skullport lurks the mysteri 
ous Rag Mage. No one can say how long he's been at the 
port, but only in the past year has he been tagged with 
his current title, due to his apparent creation and engen 
dering of the raggamoffyn. 












A ppenblx Thtzee: The Blue Alley 


henever PCs are talking in taverns or 
shops in Waterdeep, and they volun 
teer or confirm that they are adventur 
ers, the reply will be a grin and the 
query: "Ahh, have ye tried the Blue 
Alley yet, then?" All Waterdhavians know that a mad, reclu 
sive mage, whose name they never knew, constructed the Blue 
Alley to afford himself endless amusement as various adven 
turers explored it. (He was quite rich, and an adventurer him 
self.) Some say this mad mage still watches visitors encounter 
the alley's perils, making bets with colleagues on the victims' 
probable success. All Waterdhavians know that the Blue 
Alley is in Sea Ward; all in the Sea Ward know it opens off 
Ivory Street. Its name derives from the faintly-glowing blue 
paving stones underfoot. (The color will fade if pieces are 
chipped off, or stones are pried loose.) To anyone looking into 
the alley, a carved stone face (1A) is immediately visible. 
Nothing else out of the ordinary is apparent from this vantage. 

1A. (Zdjvoeb STowe 
Face 

T he carved stone face is that of a scared human, twisted in 
fear; the mouth and eyes are holes that apparently go deep 
into the stone wall. Anyone who pushes a metal weapon into 
any of the holes receives ld6 points of electrical damage per 
attempt or round of continuous contact. Nothing else happens. 

In the open mouth rests a single convex crystal lens that 
radiates a dweomer to any magic detection. It is the left 
eyepiece of a pair of eyes of the eagle. As soon as the lens is 
touched, a magic mouth appears on the face's forehead, 
laughing in a dry, mocking male voice, and a flaming 
portcullis instantly falls at IB. 

IB. FLamlwg PokXcuWs 

A flaming portcullis falls from apparently empty air, but 
exploration reveals a ceiling created by a wall of force or 
similar means that cannot be seen. The portcullis itself cannot 
be climbed over or pushed out of the way. Normal chances to 
bend bars or lift gates apply, but unless the person or persons 
attempting this are magically protected against fire, they suffer 
ld6 points of fire damage per round or part of a round of contact. 
Note that this is fire, not heat damage per se. Metal 


gauntlets allow two rounds of "safe" contact before they heat 
enough to cause damage as from a priest's heat metal spell. 
Gauntlets stay hot for another round of contact, and then 
become searing, doing the appropriate damage. They continue 
to be searing until shaken off, or at the end of one round after 
the portcullis is released, whereupon they are hot for another 
two rounds, then cool enough to do no further damage (unless 
the victim touches the portcullis again). Eleven hours after 
falling, the portcullis rises again of its own volition. 

2. Behind The I vony 

Door 

T his room is entered through an unlocked, ornately 
carved ivory door showing a mighty warrior, sword 
held aloft, battling a dragon. Should anyone try to pry 
loose or tear away any of the ivory, or remove the door 
from its hinges, a gust of wind bursts from the door and 
forces the offender away from it, ceasing after one round. 
The ivory remains intact, despite blows with artifacts, great 
strength, missile weapons, and the like, and releases a gust 
of wind whenever a heavy blow is struck upon it. 

The room beyond the door contains only a small, flat pack 
age of oiled paper, which collapses (obviously cut apart) if lifted 
up. Within the package is a two-inch long sword of sharpness, 
useless unless enlarged-except to cut off the user's fingers. 

3 A. FeatbeRUgbT 
Steps 

A short flight of six steps leads up to a small, daylit 
room (3B). The fourth step is cracked, and anyone 
examining it carefully finds a small rectangular button of 
the same material as the step hidden within the crack. If 
the button is pushed, the step clicks and rises an inch or so. 
It can be swung upward to reveal a cavity containing a nor 
mal dagger, a scroll with two mending spells, a stoppered 
glass vial, and a gold neck-chain worth 17 gp. 

The potion in the vial is cursed. Anyone who takes even 
the smallest sip must save vs. poison at -2; failure results in 
being feebleminded for ld4 turns. Success and failure both 
result in feathers appearing on the drinker's chest. 





5B. Ws the PKs 

T his room, with its 30-foot-high vaulted ceiling, is lit by 
daylight streaming through two open, arched windows 
in the north and east walls. These windows open onto views 
of a forest of green trees, with chirping birds and soft rustlings, 
with a mossy forest floor visible just below the windowsill. 
The "ground" is solid, and can be walked on, but the forest is 
an illusion. When at least one person has walked at least 10 
feet from a window, the stone slab balanced on a center 
axle-also of stone-flips, tossing the unwary adventurer 
headfirst into a 40-foot-deep shaft ending in sharpened 
wooden stakes (falling damage plus ld6 points additional 
damage). Adventurers who survive the fall can easily climb 
the shaft's stone walls, but if they cannot heave up the slab at 
the top, they must pry up stones at the shaft's bottom. 

Lifting the slab requires a combined Strength of 20. 
Note that someone trying to climb out could well be 
knocked back down by someone else out on the slab, either 
accidentally or purposefully to aid the first victim. 

At the shaft's bottom, PCs can hear running water, but 
only faintly. If they pry up stones there, they can drop 20 
feet into Waterdeep's sewers. 

Anyone going out one of the windows and trying to climb the 
outside wall is struck by a moving slab of stone above, knocked 
onto the pivoting slab, and dumped immediately into the pit. 

In the room itself is a carved stone table in which are cut non 
sensical runes. A rough keyhole is visible among them. The 
entire table is under a Nystul's magic aura spell. The lock must be 
picked, whereupon the tabletop swings up to reveal a shallow 
recess and discharge a hail of small, black darts. These are +4 to 
hit unless the tabletop is raised with a 10-foot pole or similar 
means. The darts are poisoned and cause dizziness (-3 Dex, -2 
attack penalty) for 1-8 turns, with no saving throw. The poison 
dries quickly in air, and is inactive 5 rounds after the darts fire. 

In the table's recess is a money-ring: A brass hand ring 
onto which have been threaded 18 taols. A twist latch 
allows individual coins to be added and removed. Beside 
the ring is a small, silver metal badge shaped like a tree (a 
QuaaYs feather token - tree). 

4. Step UghTLv 

T his staircase climbs steeply upward. In the central sec 
tion is one step that affects each creature within 10 
feet each time it is stepped on. All beings in the area of 
effect fall prey to a reverse gravity spell, striking the sloping 


ceiling above the stairs for ld6 points of damage and then 
falling down, striking the steps for another ld6 points of 
damage, as well as tumbling down the stairs. Two successful 
Dexterity checks avoid the fall; fragile carried items must 
make several saving throws vs. crushing blow. 

Anyone falling as far as the bottom of the staircase 
causes a magic mouth to appear on the south wall; it merely 
laughs in a male voice. 

5. Dnxggeb frzoon 
The GizAve 

T his dark corridor is home to a row of six zombies, all 
of whom are grotesquely dressed in splendid noble 
ladies' gowns of green, burgundy, yellow, and flame-red silk. 
They shuffle forward to attack inexorably; if the undead are 
turned by a paladin or priest, they form pairs and waltz 
back into their corridor. Odd zombies without partners 
waltz with an imaginary partner. 

Zombies (6): Int Non-; AL N; AC 8; MV 6; HD 2; hp 12 
x6; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; SD immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, and cold-based spells; always strike last. 

6. So ?onb 4M<b STotoe 

A stair leads to this stone room. Halfway to its 40-foot- 
high ceiling hangs a gleaming sword, motionless in 
midair, point down. It levitates above a stone dais holding 
a fist-sized gem, glowing with a white radiance. 

The sword is an animated, enchanted flying blade. It 
attacks the first creature to touch the spell crystal on the 
dais beneath it, flashing straight for its chosen target and 
instantly drawing back 10 feet whether or not its strike is 
successful, readying for its next attack. It hits as a 14th- 
level fighter, twice per round, and pursues until its chosen 
victim escapes by spell or physical barrier or is destroyed. If 
the victim escapes, the sword waits tirelessly for the victim 
to reenter its detection range-forever, if need be. 

Flying blade: AL N; AC 4; MV 24; HD 2; hp 12; THACO 8; 
#AT 2; Dmg ld8; SD immune to cold, fire, lightning, and 
heat-based attacks. 

The blade transmits all effects listed above to the victim 
of its next strike. The blade cannot be psionically or magi 
cally controlled or affected by enchantment/charm spells, 
as it has no mind. It strikes only at its chosen victim, ignor- 



ing all others who attack it. It can only be held back by a 
Strength of 24; otherwise, it tears free of M- or L-size oppo 
nents, and drags S-size opponents along with it. Upon 
being destroyed, it shatters with a bell-like ringing, and 
crumbles into metal filings of electrum and iron. (It is made 
not of steel, but of electrum-plated iron.) 

The spell crystal is a natural rock crystal, whose enspelling 
process is a secret known to few. Within it is trapped the magi 
cal energy of two spells cast into it, which appears as glowing, 
dancing flecks of light. (Spell crystals may contain up to six 
spells of any level, of both priest and wizard types, which must 
be cast into it at the time of its making.) To release the spells, 
a being holds the crystal in its bare hands and speaks the name 
of the desired spell aloud while visualizing the effects, with tar 
get, direction, and so on in mind. 

An identify spell is needed to learn this crystal's contents, 
as stored spells cannot be visually distinguished or even 
counted. It contains control weather and spider climb (the 
latter will last 10 rounds). Once these are cast, the crystal is 
drained of power, and shatters. It cannot be recharged, nor 
can spells from a spell crystal be reused, copied, or stored in 
another form. Anyone of any race or class who can speak 
and concentrate can use a spell crystal. 

7. GoTchAl 

T his 10-foot-square cubicle is a disused ambush trap; it 
contains a crossbow on a massive wooden tripod, which 
is intended to be fired down through a murder hole at crea 
tures on the landing of the stairs leading up to 6. The hole 
and a sighting hole above it are concealed from creatures on 
the landing by a permanent illusion of solid stone. 

However, the crossbow has been turned around, and its 
trigger is attached by a thin wire to the entry door of this 
cubicle; anyone opening the door, which swings outward 
into 6, faces a crossbow bolt fired at point blank range. 
The most likely character to be hit must make three suc 
cessive successful Dexterity checks to avoid the bolt. If 
hit, the PC takes 2-5 points of damage, and then rises just 
over a foot into the air (the bolt is one of levitation) and 
hangs there, unable to move up, down, or horizontally by 
will for 2-5 turns. 

The victim can move by pushing against walls or floor 
with any weapons long enough to reach. The victim's feet 
always remain pointed down, so some awkward bending at 
the middle is necessary if the weapon is short. Companions 
can also tow the victim around, or drag him to the ground 
with 250 pounds in addition to his own weight. The afflicted 


one must be pinned for the duration of the spell, however, or 
bob back up again. A dispel magic ends the effect. 

There is only one bolt in the crossbow, and no others in 
the chamber (nor anything else of value). 

8. R AN"d R 

T his room is for rest and relaxation, its floor covered 
with lush red carpeting, walls lined with bookshelves 
filled with current light reading. Two comfortable chairs 
face each other across a small, round wooden table on 
which rests a bowl of nuts. A fireplace stands in the north 
west comer, blazing with a warm fire-a magical one, need 
ing no fuel save the occasional magic item. 

Any item with a dweomer brought into contact with the 
flames is instantly drained as by a rod of cancellation, but 
only artifacts and relics get a saving throw. The item is 
drained forever. 

Over the mantel hangs a polished copper shield: A shield 
-1, missile attractor that can be used as a mirror, its surface 
gleams so cleanly. 

Hidden behind the books on one top shelf, eight feet 
from the floor, are three scrolls containing one cure light 
wounds spell each. 

Anyone who examines the nuts finds them to be of an 
unknown type, radiating a faint dweomer. An identify has no 
effect; eating one causes the eater's ears to glow bright blue for 
2-12 rounds, but has no other ill effects. The nuts are greatly 
nourishing: Each one (the bowl holds 36) serves a being as one 
day's rations, and causes the eater to feel comfortably full after 
eating it. If thrown into the fire, they explode doing all within 
seven feet of the fire 1-2 points of fire damage. 

Under the table is a small, flat, wooden box the size of 
one's palm. If touched, a magic mouth appears briefly on the 
underside and says in a tremulous female voice: "Ooh, 
HELP! Help! Let me out! Oh, please! Let me out!" If the 
box is smashed, broken, or cut open, or pried apart, an even 
smaller iron box is revealed that immediately begins to 
grow to three-foot-square size. This box has two hinges on 
one side, a clearly-visible seam around it, and a simple snap 
latch (without a lock) opposite the hinges. 

Anyone touching the box suffers 2-12 points of electri 
cal damage each round of contact. If the box is opened, a 
will o'wisp flies out and attacks all living creatures it sees. 

Will o'wisp: Int Exceptional; AL CE; AC -8; MV FI 18 
(A); HD 9; hp 56; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 2-16; SA 
electric charge; SD immune to all except magic missile 





114 



9. C&pTrve 

A secret door leads to a woman's bedchamber. She is Nal- 
lana (CG hf F2), former mistress to the cruel mage 
Keilier Twistbeard, and she is chained here by her wrists and 
ankles. Twelve-foot-long chains connect to an iron ring about 
a stone column in the center of the room. Nallana demands 
her release through her tears. She is clad only in filthy rags and 
her knee-length black hair. Nallana knows nothing of her sur 
roundings as she was drugged and put here while unconscious, 
years ago. Her sustenance comes from a bowl and a Murlynd's 
spoon, and she is heartily sick of the gruel it produces. 

There is nothing else in the room except a latrine hole; 
drinking water flows from a hole in the wall just above it, 
and washes down the latrine. Nallana fears she is going 
insane, and promises anything to anyone releasing her. If 
the PCs want her to join the party, she gladly agrees. 

Anyone severing more than one of Nallana's chains 
causes the column in the center of the room to change its 
form, releasing the ring of chains, and activate. It is a cary 
atid column resembling Nallana in form (another of her 
former lover's cruel jokes; the sight horrifies her). The cary 
atid column attacks those who freed her, ignoring Nallana. 
It continues killing all living creatures in the room until 
only she remains, but does not slay her; it only takes up her 
chains again, and resumes its guardpost. 

Caryatid Column (Stone Golem Variant): Int Non-; AL 
N; AC 5; MV 6; HD 5; hp 22; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
2-8; SD +4 to all saving throws; hit only by magical 
weapons, but pluses do not apply (a long sword +2 does nor 
mal long sword damage); SZ M (7'); ML 20; XP 420. 

1 O. Opposites 
ATTracT 

A 10-foot-square mirror of opposition hangs here, from 
which steps an exact double of every party member 
who looks into it, complete with any magic items. When 
such 'doubles are brought to 0 hit points, they and their 
items vanish. The mirror produces only one duplicate per 
person; once a character's double has been slain, that PC 
can look into the mirror without creating a second double. 
Doubles pursue their originals inexorably, until one of the 
two is destroyed. Duplicates cannot be charmed. 

The mirror is hinged, and swings upward easily to reveal 
a corridor heading east. Characters striking the mirror 


attempting to shatter it suffer the damage of their own 
blows reflected back fully upon them, with no saving throw. 
The mirror is unaffected. 

11. Wbv Did IT Have To 

Be... 

T his door is mechanically trapped. As it is pushed open, a 
counterweighted stone block swings down from the ceiling 
10 feet behind-that is, to the west of-the door, smashing any 
one standing in the doorway or behind it for 2dl2 points of dam 
age, hurling them into the next room. Characters making a 
successful Dexterity check avoid the striking stone, leap aside, 
and take no damage. The falling stone automatically swings up 
again two rounds later, pulling the door closed; thus, anyone 
wishing to open the door again must do so and dive hastily 
through, hoping that no danger awaits beyond. On the floor 
where they must dive, is the illusion of a snake, coiled to strike. 

12. Its The PITs 
(Ag&bo?) 

T his room contains nothing. Persons entering to search 
for secret doors or treasure find that the floor col 
lapses, dumping them 20 feet into a damp pit lined at the 
bottom with rough stones (falling damage applies). This pit 
is empty save for one rather chewed human thigh-bone. 
The rough walls are easily climbed, and the floor stays 
down for 12 turns. A character trapped here can dig down 
into the sewers of Waterdeep, as in #3B. This is a slow 
process: Four feet of dirt and stones must be penetrated. 

15. Eetoie-Meetoie- 
MMe-Mo 

I n slots on the west wall of this chamber are three glow 
ing crystal levers. All are in the up position. 

Pulling the left-hand lever brings a shower of hundreds of gold 
pieces out of nowhere. The cascade of metal causes 1-2 points of 
damage to the lever-puller. As it hits the floor, the gold promptly 
vanishes again; only pieces that are caught or become lodged in 
clothing or gear are retained. The lever returns to the Up posi 
tion by itself. Pulling it a second time has no effect. 

When the central lever is pulled, a glowing dagger +1 
appears. It radiates a dweomer, but is made of wood and 
does no damage. The lever returns to the Up position on 
its own accord, and further activation has no effect. 


115 



The right-hand lever works as often as it is activated. When 
pulled, it causes a magical vortex to envelop the lever-puller 
only, stripping the PC of all items and clothing worn or car 
ried, doing ld4 points of damage in the process. The vortex 
whirls items into the air above the reach of PCs at dazzling 
speed, then vanishes in a teleport that takes nonliving items 
only with it. (Items taken reappear in a pile in room #27.) 

Each magic item receives a saving throw vs. spell equal 
to the PC owner's, up to a number of items equal to the 
number of hands the affected character has to spare (PC's 
choice of items). If saves are successful, the PC is assumed 
to have kept hold of those items. As stated above, this 
lever works repeatedly; the lever rises with the vortex. 

The crystal levers can be broken by physical attacks. Each 
shatters after taking 5 points of damage, resulting in a violent 
explosion of released magical energy equal in effect to a Mor- 
denkainen's disjunction spell. That is, all scrolls, potions, and 
magic items within 3 feet must save versus dispel magic or 
become normal and nonmagical, spells being cast and perma 
nent items included. Artifacts or relics have a 24% chance of 
being destroyed. Aside from possible arrivals of powerful 
beings upset at the destruction of "their" artifacts, and the pos 
sible permanent loss of all spellcasting abilities (save vs. spell 
at -4 to avoid), all within 3 feet of an artifact or relic being 
destroyed suffer 2dl2 points of blast damage. 

14. Exdie-eve 
Revisned 

U nobtrusive but readily visible seams outline a doorway 
within this pillar. PCs have a 1 in 6 chance of noticing 
the outlines, increased to 2 in 6 for dwarves, elves, half-elves, 
and thieves. Those deliberately examining the pillar find the 
seams automatically. The door has neither latch nor lock; 
pushing on one side causes the other to pivot outward. When 
open, the door reveals a one-foot-tall, eight-inch-wide, six- 
inch-deep recessed opening at about waist height. Inside is a 
mildewy bundle: A rotting cloak wrapped around a knapsack, 
which reeks of the moldering food inside, and a leather pouch 
containing 18 gp, 5 sp, and 3 cp. Wrapped in a scrap of leather 
amidst the food is a convex crystal lens-the right eyepiece of 
the eyes of the eagle, matching the lens at 1A. 

15. S xy$ Who? 

T his circular chamber contains a waist-high, cylindri 
cal, stone plinth on which rests a single gold piece. 
When it is touched (not necessarily removed), a dry male 


voice says "Congratulations" in an ironic tone. The voice is 
that of Keilier, through a magic mouth on the curved ceiling 
of the cylindrical chamber. 

16. Bxtotoed Book 

T his concealed room contains a permanent darkness, 
15' radius within its doorway. From it comes an inter 
mittent chiming and tinkling, as if from tiny bells. The 
blue glow that has been present since the party entered this 
dungeon is not present here. Those groping their way to 
the far end of the room pass into normal darkness, and can 
see a small, glowing, amber faerie fire radiance ahead. It 
emanates from the east wall, just above a stone shelf on 
which rests a book: A Book of Vile Darkness, described fully 
in the DMG under "Miscellaneous Magic (Books)." 

DMs who feel the effects of such a work are too powerful 
should feel free to substitute a book containing gibberish and 
explosive runes that deal 6d4+6 points of damage on the reader 
and all within a one-foot radius. The reader gets no save, but 
others can save vs. spell for half damage. The book is con 
sumed in the process. There is nothing else in this room. 

17. Stxlruvxy To... 

P Cs have a 1 in 6 chance of noticing the outlines of the 
ceiling panel in this room, increased to 2 in 6 for 
dwarves, elves, half-elves, and thieves. Those deliberately 
examining the ceiling find the seams automatically. The 
panel opens up into a 10-foot-square cubicle at the foot of a 
twisting stairway. The stairs rise another 20 feet without any 
tricks or traps, to a 10-foot-square landing leading to 18. 

18. Welcome To My 
NlghTi mxKe 

T his room contains rich red carpeting. Tapestries on the 
walls depict scenes of well-dressed humans eating, 
drinking, and lounging amid sumptuous surroundings. Ele 
gantly carved wooden tables and couches are arranged to face 
the alcove in the east wall. In this alcove sits a solid bronze 
statue of Keilier Twistbeard, who indeed has a twisted beard. 
The figure is depicted in loose robes, seated on a throne, all of 
one piece and protected by a permanent wall of force from 
magical or physical harm. A permanent illusion makes the eyes 
seem alive; they "watch" anyone passing before or into the 
alcove, and the statue laughs unpleasantly at any slow-mov- 




ing disturbance of the light before it. Thus, it appears amused 
at any sign of frustration, fatigue, or mishap among adventur 
ers. Floating just above its open right hand, outside the force 
field, is a gleaming silver stoppered vial (chromed steel). If 
anyone touches the vial, a magic mouth on the back of the 
statue says, "I am Keilier, and you are my entertainment. Take 
this gift, for you will surely need it." The potion cannot be 
identified by smell or by divination magic; any attempt causes 
Keilier's laughter to be heard, regardless of the PCs' location. 
Even a single sip causes full effects. This is an elixir of madness, 
causing effects as a symbol of insanity. 

19. DonT Look )n The... 

T his entire closet radiates a dweomer; if the door is 
opened, it becomes a gate, momentarily dematerializ- 
ing, and allows six land lampreys to burst forth. 

Land Lampreys (6): Int Non-; AL N; AC 7; MV 12; HD 
1+2; hp 10 (x2), 9, 8, 7, 6; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 1 + 1- 
hp drain for next 3 rounds; SZ S (3'); ML 10; XP 420. 

Fire causes the land lampreys to release their victims and 
drop to the ground. PCs suffer a cumulative -1 Dex penalty 
for each land lamprey attached to them. 

Visible in the closet (if anyone has the time to look) is 
an open chest filled with gleaming gold pieces, but this is 
an illusion. The door slams shut by itself. If someone opens 
the door a second time, another six land lampreys appear; 
this repeats each time the door is opened. 

20. Ooze an£> Aahs 

T his chamber only contains a puddle on the floor and 
cobwebs. However, the puddle is a ghaunadan (see 
MC sheet) trapped here by Keilier. It is quite angry at this 
situation, and attacks anything that enters the room. 

Ghaunadan: Int Very; AL CE; AC 1; MV 12; HD 5; hp 30; 
THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg 3-12; SA successful strike requires 
save vs. paralysis at +2 or suffer paralysis for 2-12 turns; can 
forego attacks to mold self around opponent's weapon; 
weapons so hit sink into body mass, requiring bend bars/lift 
gates roll to remove; SD resistant to bludgeoning attacks (suf 
fers half damage); SZ M (5-6'); ML 17; XP 4,000. 

Powerful enchantments prevent the ghaunadan from 
leaving this room; it cannot enter the corridor, but it can 
extend itself the full length and width of the room. 


21. NoThitog To See 
H&K.&... 

T his room contains 596 gp, scattered all over the floor. 
It is otherwise empty. 

22. A CLueTo an Eyff 

U pon entering this empty room, PCs see the southern 
most 10><20-foot area begin glowing with a light radi 
ance. A magic mouth on the ceiling speaks: "If you would 
leave this place, bring the dragon to the south, and on its 
golden wings you shall reach the only paradise you will 
ever know." If the statuette from #24 is brought into the 
glowing area, anyone standing in it is enveloped in a 
golden light and teleported to a refuse heap in an alley 
(#27). The statuette returns to #24. 

23. Do You Believe? 

T his room contains a puddle and cobwebs, and a pro 
grammed illusion of another ghaunadan identical to the one 
in room 20. The illusion attacks, doing no damage except to the 
victim it strikes who suffers ld4 points of damage until the image 
fades (or unless the player makes a successful Intelligence check 
for the PC and states that the PC disbelieves the image). 

24-. Owe Wav OuT 

T his room contains only a golden statuette of a ram 
pant winged dragon, standing upright in one corner. 
The statuette is solid gold, worth about 2,000 gp, and 
stands 16 inches high. It is heavy (about 200 pounds) and 
is protected against breakage or damage by magic. It cannot 
be removed from the dungeon; if PCs do not exit from #22, 
and double back to the portcullis to force their way out 
with the statuette in their possession, it vanishes as they 
pass the portcullis location (IB) regardless of magical or 
physical constraints, and reappears here in the corner. 

25. WbxTeveK You 
Do, Don't Look Doujn 

Hr' he ceiling of this vast chamber rises 60 feet above the 
railless platform onto which the door opens. The 
floor, 90 feet below, is invisible in the darkness; it is strewn 





117 




with human bones, 36 gp, and several rotting pouches, 
belts, and knapsacks, two normal long swords, and a broken 
helm, broad sword, and dagger. Falling damage of 9d6 
applies to anyone precipitously joining this scenic vista. 

An arch is visible in the southwest corner of the room, 
lower than the entry platform, but it is barred with a mas 
sive iron grating of bars nearly a foot thick. 

From the dais, floating circular disks of stone lead in a 
precarious path in a semi-circle out into the empty air. 
Their edges are five feet apart, requiring a series of jumps to 
traverse. They glow blue, like the hallways in this place, 
and in the last disc is set a great sword wreathed in blue 
flames, standing upright, hilt uppermost. 

The discs are held solidly in place by magic and do not 
shift or drift. A dispel magic overcomes a disc's levitation for 
two rounds, causing it to plunge to the floor with bone 
shaking force. The discs are smooth and afford no holds for 
grapnels, hands, or ropes. Anyone venturing onto the discs 
is attacked by four stirges, who live underneath the first, 
largest disc and rise up behind an advancing character, cut 
ting him or her off from the entry platform. 

Stirges (4): Int Animal; AL N; AC 8; MV 3, FI 18 (C); 
HD 1+1; hp 7, 6,4 (x2); THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; SA 
blood drain; SZ S (2' wingspan); ML 8; XP 175. 

Those engaged in fighting stirges risk falling. The discs 
grow progressively smaller until the last, largest one is 
reached. Anyone reaching the final disc notices that the 
zombies from #5 (those that have not been destroyed) are 
watching expressionlessly through the railing. They attack 
anyone who comes within reach of the grating. 

The flames surrounding the sword do 2-12 points of damage 
per round to anyone not protected against magical fire, and the 
blade cannot be freed unless the correct stud is pressed. It 
resists all physical attempts, regardless of the strength involved, 
and reflects all spells cast back at it 100% as if it were an infalli 
ble ring of spell turning. This latter property, like the flames, is 
part of the defensive magic and not of the blade itself. 

On the dais just in front of the flames are two hand-size 
raised studs, of the same material as the discs. Depressing 
the left-hand one causes the disc to become ethereal imme 
diately, spilling sword and any beings on the disc to the 
floor far below. Once either stud is depressed, the other 
discs become ethereal, one at a time, one every two rounds, 
beginning with the largest. Thus, two rounds after either 
stud is pressed, the disc nearest the entry platform vanishes. 
Two rounds after that the next disc follows, and so on. 


Jumps from disc to disc are needed to avoid falling. 

The sword is a bastard sword of unusual black metal, hilt and 
blade all one piece. No one in Waterdeep can identify the metal. 
Runes of green fire twist up and down the blade endlessly, and 
the blade does not otherwise glow. It has an Int of 17 and an Ego 
of 18, and its alignment is NE. It speaks common, orcish, and 
drow. It can detect evil/good in a 1-foot radius, detect invisible objects 
in a 1-foot radius, and can heal its wielder once per day. 

The blade's special purpose is slaying illusionists and mages 
of all alignments. Any mage or illusionist struck by the blade 
instantly suffers 1-4 rounds of muteness and insanity, and is 
unable to cast spells during this time. A successful saving 
throw vs. spell negates this effect. The sword is a +2 weapon, 
and is known to sages as Magebane. It was once wielded by a 
satrap of Calimshan, but has long been missing. The sword 
cannot control non-evil creatures unless they willingly grasp 
the blade for at least three continuous rounds, suffering 18 
points of damage per round (making this unlikely). 

26. Dry StoRage 

T his storeroom contains a stone table on which lie 
human bones: several partially assembled skeletons, 
but with missing bones and others of different sizes and 
ages obviously substituted for them. These skeletons are 
not animated and pose no threat. A wooden stool stands 
beside the table, and on the floor beside it sit four dusty 
glass bottles containing a black liquid-very strong, dry, 
good wine. 

27. The Bums' Rush 

T his alley is a smelly, refuse-filled dead end. Characters 
arrive here from #22, and find themselves sitting in a 
heap of garbage -unless they previously lost gear in #13, 
whereupon they arrive, painfully, on top of it. 

Epilogue 

~TZ eilier, it seems, is still alive and attentive to happen- 
ings in Blue Alley. Keilier is an evil mage of at least 
24th level, and commands much magic (considering how 
much he can afford to waste on entertainment) and proba 
bly powerful servant creatures. He could well be active on 
other planes, and have clones of himself prepared in the 
event of his death, as he acquires the necessary knowledge, 
substances, and powers to prepare himself for lichdom. The 
adventure continues! 







118 


THE BLUE ALLEY 





























H he following appendix allows Dungeon 
Masters and players alike to cross-refer 
ence the older Waterdeep source materi 
als with this boxed set. The first key 
(labeled "Current Map Key") lists the 
location tags used on the Waterdeep City Maps enclosed 
in this boxed set; by checking down its lists, it is easy to 
find some new material that has been added to Water- 
deep since 1987. Remember that the new numbering sys 
tem is broken down by wards, and this is shown by the 


symbols before the building number (for example, $1 
means Sea Ward Location #1). The second key (labeled 
"Original Map Key") reproduces the map numbering sys 
tem used in these supplements: FR1 Waterdeep and the 
North, City System boxed supplement, Knight of the Living 
Dead, the Ruins of Undermountain boxed supplement, and 
Volo's Guide to Waterdeep. Checking the numbers on the 
"Original Map Key" locates places on older maps, and 
also provides the location on the current maps with its 
new designator tag. 


CuruiexTC Map Key 


SITE # 

OLD SITE # 

SITE 

# OLD SITE # 

SITE # 

OLD SITE # 

$1 

New: Sated Satyr 

$29 

62 

$58 

49 

$2 

New: Wyvern's Rest 

$30 

63 

$59 

New: Broken Lance 

$3 

85; new location 

$31 

70 

$60 

50 

$4 

New: Golden Harp Inn 

$32 

69 

N1 

7 

$5 

76 & 77 (now Shrines 

$33 

84 

N2 

124 


of Nature) 

$34 

89 

N3 

141 

$6 

78 

$35 

93 

N4 

142 

$7 

79 

$36 

98 

N5 

143 

$8 

New: Blue Alley 

$37 

61 

N6 

123 

$9 

81 

$38 

60 

N7 

122 

$10 

80 

$39 

59 

N8 

140 

$11 

91 

$40 

64 

N9 

121 

$12 

96 

$41 

51 

N10 

139 

$13 

102 

$42 

52 

Nil 

151 

$14 

103 

$43 

53 

N12 

109 

$15 

73 

$44 

57 

N13 

116 

$16 

74 

$45 

58 

N14 

120 

$17 

75 

$46 

65 

N15 

108 

$18 

New: Aurora's Wholesalers 

$47 

67 

N16 

115 

$19 

71 

$48 

68 

N17 

119 

$20 

72 

$49 

86 

N18 

133 

$21 

83 

$50 

87 

N19 

150 

$22 

82 

$51 

88 

N20 

152 

$23 

90 

$52 

92 

N21 

153 

$24 

94 

$53 

97 

N22 

132 

$25 

95 

$54 

54 

N23 

138 

$26 

99 

$55 

55 

N24 

149 

$27 

100 

$56 

56 

N25 

154 

$28 

101 

$57 

66 

N26 

New: Twilight Hunters 




-- 


- ,<5 






-y 



SITE 

# OLD SITE # 

N27 

114 

N28 

127 

N29 

131 

N30 

148 

N31 

147 

N32 

155 

N33 

107 

N34 

118 

N35 

126 

N36 

130 

N37 

137 

N38 

146 

N39 

106 

N40 

113 

N41 

129 

N42 

145 

N43 

New: Ragathan Furriers 

N44 

158 

N45 

105 

N46 

104 

N47 

110 

N48 

112 

N49 

111 

N50 

New: Aurora's Wholesalers 

N51 

117 

N52 

128 

N53 

159 

N54 

New: Fallen Stars Fish 

N55 

125 

N56 

135 

N57 

136 

N58 

144 

N59 

160 

N60 

New: Downybeard 
Tobacconist 

N61 

134 

Cl 

43 

C2 

45 

C3 

46 (old villa); New: 
Silavene's 

C4 

47 

C5 

48 

C6 

32 

C7 

New: (Temple of Ao) 

C8 

42 


SITE # OLD SITE # 

C9 41 

CIO 31 

Cll 40 

Cl2 New: Mighty Manticore 

Cl 3 New: Diloontier's 

Apothecary 

C14 29 

Cl 5 30 

Cl 6 19 

Cl 7 18 

C18 17 

C19 7 

C20 23 

C21 39 

C22 27 

C23 28 

C24 20 

C25 26 

C26 21 

C27 22 

C28 25 

C29 38 

C30 New: Asp's Strike tavern 

C31 New: Rebeleigh's Headwear 

C32 24 

C33 33 

C34 37 

C35 36 

C36 34 

C37 New: Aurora's Wholesalers 

C38 35 

C39 16 

C40 15 

C41 14 

C42 13 

C43 12 

C44 11 

C45 10 

C46 9 

C47 8 

C48 4 

C49 5 

C50 6 

C51 2 

C52 1 


SITE # OLD SITE # 

C53 New: Quaffing 

Quaggoth tavern 
C54 3 

T1 New: Underdark tavern 

T2 New: Khammeral's Coins 

T3 168 

T4 169 

T5 170 

T6 171 

T7 175 

T8 173 

T9 172 

T10 174 

Til 176 

T12 177 

T13 New: Maelstrom's Notch 

T14 183 

T15 178 

T16 New: Aurora's Wholesalers 

T17 179 

T18 180 

T19 181 

T20 182 

T21 184 

T22 185 

T23 188 

T24 187 

T25 189 

T26 186 

T27 190 

T28 196 

T29 200 

T30 201 

T31 202 

T32 191 

T33 192 

T34 195 

T35 197 

T36 198 

T37 199 

T38 203 

T39 193 

T40 194 

T41 New: House of 

Scirkhel Wands 




SITE # 

OLD SITE # 

SITE # 

OLD SITE # 

SITE # 

OLD 

T42 

205 

AQ1 

New: Essimuth's Equipment 

D18 

273 

T43 

204 

AQ2 

New: Temple of Good 

D19 

266 




Cheer 

D20 

265 

CD1 

New: Roads' End 

AQ3 

New: Madame Garah's 

D21 

263 

CD2 

167 


Boarding House 

D22 

262 

CD3 

166 

AQ4 

New: Amrani's Laundry 

D23 

261 

CD4 

165 

AQ5 

New: Piatran's Clothiers 

D24 

New: 

CD5 

164 

AQ6 

New: Home of Rokkek 

D25 

260 

CD6 

New: Lords' Respite 


Ingerr 

D26 

264 

CD 7 

163 

AQ7 

New: Hemmerem's Stables 

D27 

257 

CD8 

162 

AQ8 

New: Kolat Towers 

D28 

256 

CD9 

161 

AQ9 

New: Watch Guardpost 

D29 

254 



AQ10 

New: The Garrulous 

D30 

253 

SI 

213 


Grocer 

D31 

255 

S2 

206 

AQ11 

New: Krabbellor 

D32 

258 

S3 

214 


Silversmiths 

D33 

259 

S4 

215 

AQ12 

New: Laran's Cartographs 

D34 

252 

S5 

216 

AQ13 

New: Waukeen's Wares 

D35 

251 

S6 

217 

AQ14 

New: The Safehaven Inn 

D36 

249 

S7 

207 

AQ15 

New: Ingerr & Ingerr 

D37 

248 

S8 

New: Old Monster Shop 


Warehouses 

D38 

247 

S9 

New: Midnight Sun tavern 

AQ16 

New: The Beer Golem 

D39 

250 

S10 

218 

AQ17 

New: Phaulkonmere 

D40 

246 

Sll 

219 

AQ18 

New: The Daily Trumpet 

D41 

245 

S12 

220 


Building 

D42 

243 

S13 

222 

AQ19 

New: Helm's Hall 

D43 

244 

S14 

221 


Orphanage 

D44 

242 

S15 

208 

AQ20 

New: Tymora's Blessing 

D45 

240 

SI 6 

New: Tehmak's Coaches 



D46 

241 

SI 7 

224 

D1 

New: Grey Griffon inn 

D47 

235 

S18 

210 

D2 

280 

D48 

234 

S19 

209 

D3 

279 

D49 

233 

S20 

225 

D4 

281 

D50 

239 

S21 

New: Aurora's Wholesalers 

D5 

New: Whistling Blades 

D51 

237 

S22 

211 

D6 

282 

D52 

238 

S23 

212 

D7 

278 

D53 

236 

S24 

226 

D8 

277 

D54 

232 

S25 

227 

D9 

276 

D55 

231 

S26 

228 

D10 

275 

D56 

7 

S27 

229 

Dll 

268 

D57 

230 



D12 

269 



DM's Note: The Adventurers' Quarter 

D13 

274 



is located 

in a previously undetailed area 

D14 

267 



of Southern Ward. Tags AQ1-AQ20 are 

D15 

270 



all new locations and are tagged on their 

D16 

271 



own separate map in this box. 

D17 

272 

















122 





Oiz)g)bJAl. Map Ke\? 

SITE # NEW SITE # 

1 C52 

2 C51 

3 C54 

4 C48 

5 C49 

6 C50 

7 C19; Nl; D56 

8 C47 

9 C46 

10 C45 

11 C44 

12 C43 

13 C42 

14 C41 

15 C40 

16 C39 

17 C18 

18 C17 

19 C16 

20 C24 

21 C26 

22 C27 

23 C20 

24 C32 

25 C28 

26 C25 

27 C22 

28 C23 

29 C14 

30 Cl 5 

31 CIO 

32 C6 

33 C33 

34 C36 

35 C38 

36 C35 

37 C34 

38 C29 

39 C21 

40 Cll 

41 C9 

42 C8 

43 Cl 

44 See Castle Ward Points 

of Interest 

45 C2 

46 C3; New: Silavene's 


SITE # NEW SITE # SITE # NEW SITE # 


47 

C4 

94 

$24 

48 

C5 

95 

$25 

49 

$58 

96 

$12 

50 

$60 

97 

$53 

51 

$41 

98 

$36 

52 

$42 

99 

$26 

53 

$43 

100 

$27 

54 

$54 

101 

$28 

55 

$55 

102 

$13 

56 

$56 

103 

$14 

57 

$44 

104 

N46 

58 

$45 

105 

N45 

59 

$39 

106 

N39 

60 

$38 

107 

N33 

61 

$37 

108 

N15 

62 

$29 

109 

N12 

63 

$30 

110 

N47 

64 

$40 

111 

N49 

65 

$46 

112 

N48 

66 

$57 

113 

N40 

67 

$47 

114 

N27 

68 

$48 

115 

N16 

69 

$32 

116 

N13 

70 

$31 

117 

N51 

71 

$19 

118 

N34 

72 

$20 

119 

N17 

73 

$15 

120 

N14 

74 

$16 

121 

N9 

75 

$17 

122 

N7 

76 

$5; part of Shrines of Nature 

123 

N6 

77 

$5; part of Shrines of Nature 

124 

N2 

78 

$6 

125 

N55 

79 

$7 

126 

N35 

80 

$10 

127 

N28 

81 

$9 

128 

N52 

82 

$22 

129 

N41 

83 

$21 

130 

N36 

84 

$33 

131 

N29 

85 

$3; new location 

132 

N22 

86 

$49 

133 

N18 

87 

$50 

134 

N61 

88 

$51 

135 

N56 

89 

$34 

136 

N57 

90 

$23 

137 

N37 

91 

$11 

138 

N23 

92 

$52 

139 

N10 

93 

$35 

140 

N8 


123 



SITE 

# NEW SITE # 

SITE 

# NEW SITE # 

SITE 

# NEW SITE # 

141 

N3 

188 

T23 

237 

D51 

142 

N4 

189 

T25 

238 

D52 

143 

N5 

190 

T27 

239 

D50 

144 

N58 

191 

T32 

240 

D45 

145 

N42 

192 

T33 

241 

D46 

146 

N38 

193 

T39 

242 

D44 

147 

N31 

194 

T40 

243 

D42 

148 

N30 

195 

T34 

244 

D43 

149 

N24 

196 

T28 

245 

D41 

150 

N19 

197 

T35 

246 

D40 

151 

Nil 

198 

T36 

247 

D38 

152 

N20 

199 

T37 

248 

D37 

153 

N21 

200 

T29 

249 

D36 

154 

N25 

201 

T30 

250 

D39 

155 

N32 

202 

T31 

251 

D35 

156 

Destroyed; see Points 

203 

T38 

252 

D34 


of Interest 

204 

T43 

253 

D30 

157 

Destroyed; see Points 

205 

T42 

254 

D29 


of Interest 

206 

S2 

255 

D31 

158 

N44 

207 

S7 

256 

D28 

159 

N53 

208 

SI 5 

257 

D27 

160 

N59 

209 

S19 

258 

D32 

161 

CD9 

210 

SI 8 

259 

D33 

162 

CD8 

211 

S22 

260 

D25 

163 

CD7 

212 

S23 

261 

D23 

164 

CD5 

213 

SI 

262 

D22 

165 

CD4 

214 

S3 

263 

D21 

166 

CD3 

215 

S4 

264 

D26 

167 

CD2 

216 

S5 

265 

D20 

168 

T3 

217 

S6 

266 

D19 

169 

T4 

218 

S10 

267 

D14 

170 

T5 

219 

Sll 

268 

Dll 

171 

T6 

220 

SI 2 

269 

D12 

172 

T9 

221 

S14 

270 

D15 

173 

T8 

222 

S13 

271 

D16 

174 

T10 

223 

Out of Business 

272 

D17 

175 

T7 

224 

SI 7 

273 

D18 

176 

Til 

225 

S20 

274 

D13 

177 

T12 

226 

S24 

275 

D10 

178 

T15 

227 

S25 

276 

D9 

179 

T17 

228 

S26 

277 

D8 

180 

T18 

229 

S27 

278 

D7 

181 

T19 

230 

D57 

279 

D3 

182 

T20 

231 

D55 

280 

D2 

183 

T14 

232 

D54 

281 

D4 

184 

T21 

233 

D49 

282 

D6 

185 

T22 

234 

D48 



186 

T26 

235 

D47 



187 

T24 

236 

D53 




f>-v 







Appebod'iy Five: Ikj bey 


This index compiles information from all four books of the 
City of Splendors boxed set. Listed in order of book appear 
ance, each entry can have up to four different sets of num 
bers, separated by codes for which book the page numbers 
reference. For example, something on page 13 of the Cam 
paign Guide and page 42 of the Secrets of the City book would 

look like this: "Something.13 (CG); 42 (SC). This 

index only covers people and places in Waterdeep and the 
North; it is not a complete index. Referrals to other compiled 
tables and reference guides have been deleted; for lists of the 
city sites and references to more information, see Chapter 
Three of the Campaign Guide. Additional subreferences are 
listed by characters' first names, though all pages are listed 
underneath family names or general topic references. 


Adarbrent. 8, 9, 67 (WW) 

Adventurers' Quarter. 5, 30, 35,40, 53, 67 (CG); 9, 25, 37, 68, 95 (WW); 

1, 8, 39-64 (AG); 1-16 (SC) 
Ahghairon. 19, 25-31, 34, 45, 52, 56, 57, 67 (CG); 5-7 (WW); 

5, 8,18, 20-22, 25-27, 40 (AG) 

Ahmaergo. 104, 110 (CG); 88-90 (WW) 

Alcedor Kolat.34, 88, 95-97,101 (CG); 42, 51, 52, 61, 62 (AG); 6-8,16 (SC) 

Aleena Paladinstar. 4 7 (CG); 80 (WW) 

Alek Lenter. 37, 86, 95, 96 (WW); 47, 58, 60 (AG); 3,13,15 (SC) 

Alustriel. 22, 47, 92, 94 (CG); 32, 81 (WW) 

Amcathra .9- 11, 67 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Amn. 8,11,18, 25, 27, 70 (CG); 6,18, 23, 30, 84-87 (WW); 

58 (AG); 4, 5 (SC) 

Ampratines. 28, 29 (WW) 

Amrani. 46, 56, 58 (AG); 5, 11-12 (SC) 

Amrani's Laundry. 46, 56 (AG) 

Anauroch. 11, 13-15, 24 (CG) 

Anchoret's Court. 7 5 , 79, 80 (WW) 

Anteos. 10, 92, 94 (WW 

Ao.31, 101 (CG); 61-63, 69 (WW); 20, 28 (AG) 

Arana Lanys. 58, 61 (AG); 5, 6, 10, 13 (SC) 

Ardeep Forest. 12, 14, 16, 22 (CG); 31 (AG) 

Aridarye Phylund. 11,21, 22, 30 (WW) 

Ariel Heremet. 57 (AG); 12-13 (SC) 

Arilyn Moonblade. 4 (CG);4, 10 (SC) 

Arkiem Arren. 68 (WW); 41, 42, 45, 49, 57, 61 (AG); 4, 8,11 (SC) 

Arren.101 (CG); 68 (WW); 41, 42, 45, 49, 57, 58, 61 (AG); 4, 5, 8,10,11 (SC) 

Arum Tarm. 2 5 (WW), 46, 60 (AG); 9, 10, 12, 15 (SC) 


14, 23, 26-28, 56, 67, 69, 72, 76, 81, 85, 86 (WW); 

4, 5, 20, 21 (AG); 5, 8,11 (SC) 

Asper. 3, 4, 70, 74 (CG) 

Athkatla . 78, 86 (WW) 

Auril. 35, 41 (CG); 27 (AG); 12 (SC) 

Aurora. 15, 91 (WW); 12, 17, 36, 45 (AG) 

Azuredge . 30, 35, 97, 98 (CG); 61, 62 (AG); 16 (SC) 

Azuth. 50, 94 (CG); 75-77 (WW); 18, 55 (AG); 7,11 (SC) 

Baeron. 28, 31, 41, 57, 67, 98 (CG); 6 (WW); 62 (AG) 

Baldur's Gate. 24, 103 (CG); 67, 72, 85, 86 (WW) 

Balthorr. 36 (WW); 20, 36 (AG) 

Bane. 71 (CG); 78 (WW) 

Bannor Karralo. 5 7 (AG); 5, 13 (SC) 

Barkess Lanys. 68 (WW); 58 (AG); 5, 8, 12 (SC) 

Beer Golem. 37, 42, 45, 57, 59, 60, 62 (AG); 3, 8 (SC) 

Belihands Masker. 9, 54 (WW) 

Belmonder . 44 (WW); 10 (AG) 

Berthist. 6 8 (WW); 5 (SC) 

Beruris Hill. 12, 102 (CG) 

Beryghon. 9 8 (CG); 61 (AG) 

Beshaba. 13 (SC) 

Black Admiral. 3 4 (CG); 88 (WW) 


Black Tankard. 104 (CG) 

Black Viper. 71, 86 (WW); 64 (AG) 

Blackhom Alley. 11 (AG) 

Blacklock Alley. 8 (AG) 

Blackrabbas Khuulthund. 19 (CG); 70 (WW) 

Blackstaff Tower. 23, 30, 35, 45, 47, 61, 73, 98, 100-101 (CG); 

76, 80 (WW); 20 (AG); 8 (SC) 

Blackstone House. 73 (WW); 38 (AG); 4 (SC) 

Blakantar Tagon. 43, 55 (AG); 8, 11, 16 (SC) 

Blazidon One-Eye . 71-74 (WW); 2, 5,10 (AG); 8 (SC) 

Bloody Fist... 37 (WW); 37 (AG) 

Blue Alley. 1, 3, 41, 112-118 (CG); 17 (AG) 

Boroldan Ilzimmer. 17 (WW); 9 (SC) 

Bow of Hosark. 9 9 (CG); 2, 4-5, 12 (SC) 

Bowels of the Earth. 63 (CG); 72 (WW); 10, 37, 38 (AG) 

Brandon Korrelwyn. 14 (WW); 4 (SC) 

Branta Myntion. 95 (CC); 42, 45, 53 (AG); 6-8,10,13 (SC) 

Brian the Swordmaster. 69 (CG); 7, 36 (AG); 7, 16 (SC) 

Briosar Helmsing. 6 2 (WW); 10 (SC) 

Brokengulf. 11, 30 (WW); 5 (SC) 

Bronson Phaulkon. 34 (CG); 45, 54, 59 (AG); 5, 6, 9, 12, 13 (SC) 

Brossfeather. 6 0 (CG); 12 (WW) 

Buckle Alley. 61 (CG); 21 (AG) 

Buckles washers. 64-66 (WW); 62 (AG); 16 (SC) 

Bungobar Talltankard. 64-66 (WW) 

Caladorn. 69, 72 (CG); 12, 67, 85 (WW); 5 (SC) 

Calimshan . 11, 25, 70, 71, 81,118 (CG); 15, 24, 28, 63, 83, 86, 93 (WW); 

3, 4, 26, 47, 54 (AG); 6, 9,11 (SC) 

Candlekeep . 95, 102 (CC) 

Caravan Court. 52, 62 (CG); 92 (WW); 7, 8, 25, 38, 56 (AG) 

Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' Guild.36 (CG); 38, 39 (WW); 7, 42 (AG) 

Carson Innes. 47, 57, 62 (AG); li, 16 (SC) 

Cassalanter. 69, 72 (CG); 12,13, 67, 85 (WW); 5 (SC) 

Cassandra Thann. 26, 86 (WW) 

Castle Waterdeep. 8,11, 28-29, 36, 45-46, 76, 79, 95, 96 (CG); 54 (WW); 

3, 5,18, 28, 38 (AG); 3 (SC) 

Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild. 51, 59, 62 (CG); 39, 49, 63 (WW); 10 (AG) 

Cera Phaulkon. 33 (CG); 46, 54 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Chauntea. 6 6 (WW);59 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Cial Myntion. 45, 57, 58, 61 (AG); 13 (SC) 

Citadel Adbar. 12, 13, 15, 23, 102 (CG) 

Citadel of Many Arrows. 12, 13, 102 (CG) 

Citta Hothemer. 16, 30 (WW); 16 (SC) 

City of the Dead.3-5, 8-10, 30, 33, 40, 41, 43, 52, 56, 57, 73, 75, 79,105 (CG); 

61, 73, 84, 87, 88, 93 (WW); 5, 8,12,15, 25, 28, 38, 51 (AG) 

Cliffride. 35, 46, 47 (CG); 5, 20 (AG) 

Cliffwatch . 33, 43, 73 (CG); 14, 27 (AG) 

Clion. 43, 49, 54-55 (AG); 4, 10, 11 (SC) 

Company of Crazed Venturers.3,15,17, 41, 82 (CG); 66, 74, 76, 78-81 (WW); 

20, 63 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Copper Cup. 14 (CG); 24, 28, 36 (AG) 

Corinna Dezlentyr. 10, 67 (WW) 

Cormyr . 25, 34 (CG); 5, 9, 25 (WW); 45, 54, 57 (AG); 9,10,12,13(SC) 

Costumers' Hall. 52 (WW); 10 (AG) 

Council of Musicians, Instrument-Makers, and Choristers. 4 6 (CG); 

40 (WW); 10 (AG) 


Cragsmere . 12, 87 (WW) 

Crommor. 4 7 (CG); 12, 37, 41, 67 (WW) 

Crown of Homs. 31, 99-101, 110 (CG) 

Cult of Ao. 60, 62, 63, 69 (WW) 

Cult of the Dragon. 50 (CG); 94 (WW) 

Cynosure. 36 (CG); 37, 61, 62 (WW); 20, 29 (AG) 

Cyric . 31, 33,101 (CG); 62, 88, 90 (WW); 28 (AG) 

Daggerford . 13 (CG); 92 (WW) 

Dagsumn. 85 (CG); 73, 76 (WW) 

Daily Trumpet. 37, 40, 47, 57, 62 (AG); 16 (SC) 

Danilo Thann. 4, 7, 46, 72, 86, 95 (CG); 5, 9,19, 27, 85 (WW); 5 (AG); 

4, 6-8,10,11 (SC) 

Deep Delvers. 9, 13, i5, 67 (WW) 

Deepdell.33, 95, 99 (CG); 68 (WW); 49, 50, 56-58, 61 (AG); 4, 5, 8-9,12 (SC) 

Deepfires. 104, 108-110 (CG); 8 (SC) 

Deepwater Isle. 10, 46, 58 (CG); 5, 27, 32, 63 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Delimbiyr. 11-13, 15-16, 20, 102 (CG) 

Delzoun. 12, 13, 20 (CG); 70 (WW); 2 (AG) 

Dessarin. 11-16, 22-24, 29, 102, 103 (CG) 

Dezlentyr. 10, 12, 13, 67 (WW) 





125 

























































































































Dimvel Stoutkeg. 65, 66 (WW) 

Donar Heremet. 95 (CG); 68 (WW); 57 (AG); 8, 13 (SC) 

Downybeard Tobacconist. 12, 36 (AG) 

Duhlark Kolat.34, 89-92, 108 (CG); 20 (WW); 42, 52, 58 (AG); 6-8, 11 (SC) 

Dumal I ran!. 15 (CG); 66 (WW) 

Dungeon of the Crypt. 3,10, 62, 96 (CG); 66, 87 (WW); 35 (AG) 

Dungsweepers' Guild.32, 34, 54, 65 (CG); 37, 41, 88 (WW); 3,12, 26, 40 (AG) 

Durnan. 3, 31, 56, 63, 64, 69-71, 74, 77, 80-82 (CG); 

3, 78, 81, 90 (WW); 7,14 (SC) 

Eaerlann . 13, 15, 16 (CG) 

Edrianna Heremet. 5 7 (AG); 13 (SC) 

Eilistraee. 3 (CG); 63 (WW) 

Elaith "the Serpent" Craulnobur. 14, 16, 72, 95, 99 (CG); 72, 85 (WW); 

4 AG); 5, 7,11 (SC) 

Elfstone Tavern. 20, 37 (AG); 9 (5C) 

Ellidis Wands. 28 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Eltorchul. 60 (CG); 13, 14 (WW);4 (SC) 

Erik. 44, 56, 60 (AG); 6, 12 (SC) 

Errya Eltorchul. 14 (WW); 4 (SC) 

Essimuth Lanys. 95 (CG); 28, 64, 68 (WW); 

36, 37, 40, 41, 50, 53, 57, 58, 60, 61 (AG); 4-6, 8,12 (SC) 

Estelmer. 4 7 (CG); 14, 61 (WW) 

Evereska. 12, 20 (CG); 5 (SC) 

Everlund. 13-15, 102, 103 (CG) 

Evermeet . 12,13, 31, 58 (CG); 55, 66, 94 (WW); 5 (SC) 

Evermoors. 13, 20, 29 (CG) 

Fair Seas Festival. 32 (CG); 27, 28 (AG) 

Fair Winds. 46, 47 (CG); 20 (AG) 

Falconfree. 51 (CG); 7, 29 (WW) 

Fallen Kingdom. 12,14,16, 22, 27, 30 (CG); 19 (WW); 2 (AG) 

Fallen Lands. 14, 20 (CG) 

Feast of the Moon. 26, 29 (AG) 

Fellowship Hall.42 (WW); 18 (AG) 

Fellowship of Bowyers & Fletchers. 41, 42 (WW) 

Fellowship of Carters and Coachmen. 42, 43 (WW) 

Fellowship of Innkeepers. 42 (WW); 18 (AG) 

Felzoun's Folly. 37 (WW); 37 (AG) 

Fetlock Court. 4 6 (CG); 49 (WW) 

Field of Triumph. 29, 31, 36, 41, 69 (CG); 12, 67 (WW); 15,17,18, 

28, 29, 50 (AG); 5,11 (SC) 

Fiery Flagon. 35 (CG); 17, 28, 37 (AG) 

Filiare . 66, 74 (WW); 10 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Fishgut Court. 41, 92 (WW); 24 (AG) 

Fishmongers' Fellowship. 40, 43 (WW); 22 (AG) 

Fishwife Alley. 40, 41, 44, 61 (AG) 

Fleetswake. 32 (CG); 27, 28 (AG) 

Font of Knowledge. 22 (CG); 61, 69 (WW); 20, 29, 37 (AG) 

Force Grey. 73, 74 (CG); 80 (WW); 34 (AG) 

Full Sails. 50 (WW); 24, 37 (AG) 

Garnet. 85 (WW); 6 (SC) 

Garrulous Grocer. see Nindil Jalbuck 

Gaundos. 75, 88 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Gemidan. 68, 85-87 (CG); 68, 75, 76 (WW) 

Ghaunadar . 63 (WW) 

Ghentilara . 33 (CG); 62, 66 (WW); 4 (SC) 

Gildeggh. 28, 31 (CG); 6, 31 (WW); 45 (AG); 2 (SC) 

Gods' Day. 34 (CG); 28 (AG) 

Godswar. 15, 20, 29, 31, 36, 57 (CG); 4, 69 (WW); 28, 33 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Goldenfields. 21, 23 (CG); 66 (WW); 38, 43, 51, 59 (AG); 6, 7 (SC) 

Goldenight. 3 2 (CG); 29 (AG) 

Gond. 42 (CG); 61 (WW); 15, 29 (AG) 

Gost. 15, 67 (WW) 

Grinning Lion. 61 (CG); 37 (WW); 14, 37 (AG) 

Grocer's Lane. 62 (CG); 37 (WW); 40, 42, 47 (AG); 4 (SC) 

Guild of Apothecaries & Physicians. 43-44, 70 (WW); 12, 57 (AG) 

Guild of Butchers. 4 4 (WW); 22 (AG) 

Guild of Chandlers & Lamplighters. 57 (CG);44 (WW); 

8, 10, 25, 44, 46, 58 (AG) 

Guild of Fine Carvers. 45 (WW); 18 (AG) 

Guild of Stonecutters, Masons, Potters, & Tile-Makers.46, 49 (WW); 7 (AG) 

Guild of Watermen. 9, 46 (WW); 22, 28 (AG) 

Guildmasters. 2 7 , 28, 30, 31 (CG); 29 (AG) 

Child wars. 28, 31, 46 (CG); 6 (WW) 

Gull Leap. 47, 73 (CC); 21, 54 (AG) 

Gundwynd. 32 (CG); 15, 67 (WW) 

Gut Alley. 61 (CG); 54 (WW); 18, 22 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Halambar Lutes & Harps. 4 0 (WW); 20, 36 (AG) 

Halaster. 29-32, 64, 65, 89, 95, 98,106-109 (CG); 

76, 85 (WW); 7,14 (SC) 

Halazar's Fine Gems. 4 7 (WW); 17 (AG) 

Halls of Justice. 57 (CG); 11, 61, 80 (WW); 20, 37 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Hamiklar Wands. 3 0 (CG); 14 (WW) 

Hammerhand Krabbellor. 44, 56, 58 (AG); 11, 13 (SC) 


Hanging Lantern. 87, 88 (WW); 24, 36 (AG) 

Harkas Kormallis. 11, 17, 61 (WW); 9 (SC) 

Harpers. 14, 23, 31, 68, 88, 89,100 (CG); 25, 29, 66, 72, 77, 81, 82 (WW); 

5, 20, 44 (AG); 4,10,16 (SC) 

Hawkwinter . 15 (WW); 14 (AG) 

Hedrik. 101 (CG); 50, 51, 53 (AG); 5-8 (SC) 

Hellgate Keep. 14-17, 75, 102 (CG) 

. 15, 21-23, 31, 35, 53, 73, 99,107,118 (CG); 10,17, 

20, 23, 66 (WW); 28, 29, 37, 46, 50, 56, 59, 61 (AG); 3-7,12,14 (SC) 

Helm's Hall. 37, 46, 50, 56, 59, 61 (AG); 3, 5, 6, 12 (SC) 

Helm's Hold... 15, 21 (CG); 66 (WW) 

Helmfast. 16, 51 (WW) 

Helve Urtrace. 76, 83 (CG); 5, 33, 34, 49 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Hemmerem. 40, 46, 56, 60 (AG); 6, 8, 12, 14, 15 (SC) 

Heralds. 15, 45, 80, 102 (CG); 7, 29 (WW) 

Heremet. 95 (CG); 68 (WW); 57 (AG); 8,12,13 (SC) 

Heroes' Garden. 34, 41, 60 (CG); 15 (AG) 

High Forest. 11-13,15,16, 23, 24,100,102 (CG); 5 (SC) 

High House of Roaringhom. 44 (CG); 14 (AG) 

High Road. 17-21, 45, 52, 53, 60-62,102,103 (CG); 37, 42-47, 50-51, 53, 

55, 66, 75 (WW); 7, 8,11,12,15,18, 25, 26, 29, 39 (AG) 

Higharvestide. 34 (CG); 68 (WW); 29 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Hilather . see Halaster 

Hilmer. 4 9 (CG); 20, 36 (AG) 

Hlaavin. 75, 87, 88 (WW); 8, 16 (SC) 

Hlanta Melshimber. 47 (CG); 20, 25 (WW); 47, 52 (AG); 7 (SC) 

Horth Hunabar. 95 (CG); 67 (WW) 

Hosttower of the Arcane. 18,102 (CG); 11 (SC) 

Hothemer . 16, 30, 92 (WW); 16 (SC) 

House of Good Spirits. 55, 92 (WW); 7, 45 (AG) 

House of Healing. 43 (WW); 12, 37 (AG) 

House of Heroes. 31 (CG); 61 (WW); 15, 37 (AG); 12 (SC) 

House of Inspired Hands. 61 (WW); 15, 17 (AG) 

House of Light. 44, 45 (WW); 10 (AG) 

House of Pride Perfumes. 4 0 (WW); 22, 36 (AG) 

House of Purple Silks. 36 (AG); 8 (SC) 

House of Song. 4 6 (CG); 40 (WW); 10 (AG) 

House of the Fine Carvers. 61 (CG); 45 (WW); 18 (AG) 

House of the Moon. 61, 88 (WW); 15, 29, 37 (AG) 

House of Wonder.90 (CG); 61 (WW); 3,15,17, 22, 27, 37 (AG); 8 (SC) 

Hriiat Fine Pastries. 38 (WW); 12 (AG) 

Hunabar. 9 5 (CG); 16, 67, 68 (WW); 13 (SC) 

Husteem. 16, 37 (WW) 

Hykros Allumen. 61 (WW); 9 (SC) 

Idogyr. 73 (CG); 61 (WW) 

Illia. 43, 59 (AG) 

Ilitul. 60 (CG); 16 (WW) 

Ilzimmer . 17, 67 (WW); 9 (SC) 

Imzeel Coopercan. 3, 67, 72 (WW) 

Ingerr. 40, 42, 47, 51, 57 (AG); 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13 (SC) 

Inn of the Dripping Dagger. 3, 4 (CG); 66, 74, 82, 84, 93 (WW); 

10, 36, 38 (AG) 

Iriaebor. 8 6 (WW); 12, 15 (SC) 

Irlingstar. 42 (CG); 17 (WW) 

Ironmaster. 17 (CG); 90 (WW) 

Irusyl Eraneth. 108-110 (CG); 7, 8 (SC) 

Iyachtu Xvim. 71 (CG); 78 (WW) 

Jaffar. 47, 57 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Jan Hunabar. 6 8 (WW); 13 (SC) 

Jardeth . 4 4 (CG); 17 (WW) 

Jeryth Phaulkon. 33 (CG); 46, 54 (AG); 9,10,14 (SC) 

Jewelers' Guild. 4 9 (CG); 45, 47 (WW) 

Jhansczil. 6 0 (CG); 17 (WW) 

Kappiyan Flurmastyr. 75, 78-79 (WW); 8, 55 (AG) 

Kelvar Helmfast. 16, 51 (WW) 

Kerrigan. 30, 33, 67 (CG); 88 (WW); 40, 44 (AG) 

Kerrigan's Court. 33, 67 (CG); 40, 44 (AG) 

Kharkos. 22, 68 (WW); 58, 60 (AG); 6,13,16 (SC) 

Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun. 3, 20, 23, 29-31, 35, 43, 45, 61, 

63, 68-74, 82, 84-89, 91-94, 98,100,101,104,108 (CG); 

14, 23, 26-28, 56, 66, 67, 69, 72, 76, 78-82, 85 (WW); 

4, 5, 20, 21, 28 (AG); 5, 7, 8,10,16 (SC) 

Kherris . 30, 98 (CG) 

Kiber Ederick. 46, 56 (AG); 3, 12, 16 (SC) 

"Kitten" Nymara Scheiron. 3, 7, 69-71, 74, 81,104 (CG); 2, 81, 90 (WW); 

6-8, 16 (SC) 

Knife's Edge. 65, 66 (WW); 62 (AG); 16 (SC) 

Knights of the Shield. 29, 68, 72, 89 (CG); 6, 65, 85, 86 (WW); 6 (SC) 

Knights of the Sword Coast. 16, 34 (CG); 68, 76 (WW); 57, 58, 62 (AG); 

4, 5, 8,12,14,16 (SC) 

Kolat. 34, 88, 89, 91, 92, 95-97,101,108 (CG); 20 (WW): 

40, 42, 51-53, 58, 61 (AG); 3, 5-8,11,16 (SC) 
Kolat Towers.34 (CG); 40,42 (AG); 3,7 (SC) 


126 


























































































































































Kormallis. 11, 17, 61 (WW); 9 (SC) 

Kothont. 18, 88 (WW) 

Krabbellor Silversmiths. 44, 56, 58 (AG) 

Kriios Halambar. 4 6 (CG); 40, 41 (WW); 20, 36 (AG) 

Kylia. 50, 52, 53 (AG); 8 (SC) 


L,aciai. >_>, oi., sj/, uu, / u, / / -t, uu, ou, yt-, y^r, iuu, iui, 

104,108-110 (CG); 56, 66, 76, 80, 81 (WW); 7, 8,11 (SC) 

Lanngolyn. 18, 30, 50-51 (WW) 

Lanys. 95 (CG); 28, 64, 68 (WW); 50, 53, 58, 61 (AG); 

4-6, 8,10,12,13(SC) 

Laran.9 (WW); 37, 47, 50, 58 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Larissa Neathal.68,70,71 (CG); 85 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Lathander . 22, 30 (CG); 19,41, 62, 66, 68, 73, 74, 91 (WW); 

20, 29, 57 (AG); 4 (SC) 

Lathkule. 18, 67 (WW) 

Laughingflow . 13, 24 (CG) 

Lauhren. 6 8 (WW); 56, 58 (AG); 4, 13 (SC) 

Lauroun. 29, 57, 98 (CG) 

League Hall. 4 8 (WW); 22 (AG) 

League of Skinners & Tanners. 48, 51, 53 (WW); 22 (AG) 

Leilon. 17, 21, 102, 103 (CG) 

Lhestyn. 20, 29, 31, 41,47, 57, 67 (CG); 23, 26, 86, 88 (WW); 27 (AG) 

Lliira. 101 (CG); 68 (WW); 29, 41, 49, 58 (AG); 4,13 (SC) 

Llorbauth. 87 (CG); 7 (SC) 

Llorkh. 17, 24, 103 (CG) 

Loene. 66, 79 (WW); 20 (AG) 

Long Road. 11,18,19, 23,102,103 (CG); 9 (SC) 

Longsaddle. 17, 102, 103 (CG); 76 (WW) 

Lord's Court. 28, 33, 35, 47, 68, 77, 87 (CC); 

6,19, 22, 30, 32,45,49 (WW); 27-29, 34, 40, 63 (AG) 

Lords Magister. 28, 31 (CG); 6, 38 (WW) 

Lords of Waterdeep. 1, 4, 8, 25, 27-31,47, 67-74, 75, 82, 88-90, 98, 

104, 107, 108, 110 (CG); 6, 7, 29, 32, 37, 54, 62, 66, 76, 78, 
80, 82, 85, 86, 90 (WW); 4, 5, 33, 62 (AG); 6, 7 (SC) 

Loudwater.13, 17, 18, 102, 103 (CG) 

Loviatar. 105 (CG); 14 (SC) 

Loyal Order of Street Laborers.46, 47 (CG); 37, 39, 49 (WW); 15, 26 (AG) 

Luskan. 16,18-21, 33, 34, 70,102,103 (CG); 3, 6,17, 32, 39, 51, 

73, 87, 92 (WW); 54 (AG); 4, 5, 9-11,15 (SC) 

Lythis (Mhairuun) Phylund .6, 22 (WW) 

Maaril. 56, 79 (WW); 17 (AG); 7, 11 (SC) 

Madame Garah. 41, 42, 46, 50-52, 56, 59, 61 (AG); 2, 5-8, 14 (SC) 

Madieron Sunderstone. 82 (CG); 5 (AG) 

Maelstrom's Notch. 10, 36 (AG) 

Maerklos. 7, 18 (WW) 

Maernos . 18, 19, 30 (WW); 47 (AG) 

Majarra. 4 7 (CG); 19, 94 (WW) 

Mai,ikir.ii Tabuirr. 105, 106 (CG); 8 (SC) 

Malchor Harpell. 17, 21, 68 (CG); 66, 73, 76, 79 (WW); 7 (SC) 

Manthar . 6 0 (CG); 20 (WW) 

Map House. 55 (WW); 37, 58 (AG) 

Marie Phaulkon. 46, 59 (AG); 14 (SC) 

Mariners' Hall. 49, 72 (WW) 

Market. 31, 32; 35,46, 96 (CG); 37 (WW); 18, 20, 26, 29, 35, 64 (AG) 

Marune. 19, 20 (CG); 86 (WW) 

Maskar Wands. 14, 28, 30 (WW); 5 (AG); 8, 11, 16 (SC) 

Masked Lady. 20, 29, 31, 41, 67 (CG); 23, 86, 88 (WW) 

Master Mariners' Guild. 4 9 (WW); 24, 28 (AG) 

Maztica. 31 (CG); 9 (WW) 

Meleghost Starseer. 90 (CG); 61 (WW) 

Melody Mount Walk. 46, 47 (CG); 20 (AG) 

Melshimber . 47 (CG); 19-21, 25 (WW); 47, 52 (AG); 7 (SC) 

Meraedos Fine Furs. 53 (WW); 36 (AG) 

Mere of Dead Men. 18, 19, 102 (CG) 

Metalmasters' Hall. 5 0 (WW); 7 (AG) 

Mhair Szeltune. 96 (CG); 24, 28, 56, 83 (WW); 11, 33 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Mhair's Tower. 5 6 (WW); 11 (AG) 

Midsummer. 29, 31, 34 (CG); 7, 20, 61, 69 (WW); 26, 57 (AG); 7,10 (SC) 

Mielikki. 16, 23, 99 (CG); 62, 71, 82 (WW); 15, 55 (AG); 5, 9,10 (SC) 

Mighty Manticore. 3, 67, 72 (WW); 20, 37 (AG) 

Milil. 22 (CG); 19, 68 (WW); 29, 41, 49 (AG); 4-6 (SC) 

Mintarn. 18, 34 (CG); 30 (WW) 

Mintiper Moonsilver. 16, 22 (CG); 19 (WW) 

Mirabar.11,14,18,19,102,103 (CG); 19, 31, 32, 46, 50, 51, 67, 68, 77, 86, 87, 

90, 92 (WW); 54 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Miri Myntion. 9 (WW); 45, 58, 60, 61 (AG); 8 (SC) 

Mirt. 2, 3,12, 31, 41, 63, 64, 68-72, 74, 82 (CG); 29, 31, 32, 79, 

81, 90 (WW); 20, 24, 27 (AG); 6, 7,16 (SC) 

Mirt's Mansion. 64, 70 (CG); 20, 24 (AG) 

Moonshaes . 31, 34 (CG); 11, 58 (AG); 5 (SC) 

Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths & Metalforgers. 40, 50 (WW); 7 (AG) 

Mother Tathlom.(WW); 36 (AG) 

Mount Sar. 19, 73 (CG) 


Mount Waterdeep. 2, 4, 8-10,19, 26, 29-31, 45-47, 61, 64, 70, 73,104 (CG); 

54, 62, 93 (WW); 3-5,18, 28, 38 (AG) 

Mouse Alley. 8 (AG); 8 (SC) 

Muleskull Tavern. 41 (WW); 37 (AG) 

Mulgor. 36 (CG); 80 (WW); 4, 5 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Murann. 67 (WW); 13 (SC) 

Myntion.95 (CG); 9 (WW); 42, 45, 53, 57-59 (AG); 4, 6-8,10,13,14 (SC) 

Myrkul. 31, 57, 98-101,110 (CC); 62, 69 (WW); 4, 28, 40, 61 (AG); 

6, 7,12 (SC) 

Myrmith Splendon. 83, 84 (WW) 

Mystra. 29, 72, 84, 90, 94,100,101 (CG); 28, 61, 76 (WW); 

2, 8,15,18, 27, 28 (AG); 7, 8,11 (SC) 

Nain . 68, 83 (CG); 66, 78, 79 (WW); 17 (AG); 6, 7 (SC) 

Naneatha Suaril. 18, 61 (WW) 

Nesher. 6 0 (CG); 21, 27 (WW) 

Nesme. 13, 20, 102, 103 (CG) 

Nether Mountains. 13, 20 (CG) 

Netheril. 14, 15, 20, 24, 72, 91, 100, 106 (CG); 7 (SC) 

Neverwinter. 2, 14, 15, 20, 21, 29, 31, 68, 102, 103 (CG); 

26, 73, 76 (WW); 4, 8 (SC) 

New Olamn. 22, 46, 47 (CG); 19, 20, 27, 41, 61, 69 (WW); 

5, 20, 24, 29, 37,49, 55 (AG); 7 (SC) 

Nhyris D'Hothek. 101, 110 (CG) 

Nimbral. 3, 18 (CG) 

Nimoar . 26, 29 (CG); 28 (AG) 

Nindil Jalbuck. 70, 74, 82 (CG); 40, 43, 51, 57, 60 (AG); 

3, 6-10,14,15,16 (SC) 

Nleera Tarannath. 25, 26 (WW) 

Northgate . 8, 73 (CG); 63 (AG) 

Northreckoning . 29, 56, 67 (CG) 

Oghma. 22, 95,109,110 (CG); 45, 61, 69 (WW); 

15, 20, 29 (AG); 7,11 (SC) 

Olanhar Wands. 28, 68 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Old Guild Hall. 10, 11 (AG) 

Old Mage. see Ahghairon 

Old Xoblob Shop. 3, 32 (CG); 24, 36, 37 (AG) 

Olmhazan's Jewels. 61 (CG); 47 (WW) 

Olophin. 43, 54, 55, 60, 61 (AG); 4, 5, 9,11,15 (SC) 

Open Lord. 2, 25, 30, 31, 41, 47, 67, 68, 71, 82, 98 (CG); 

6, 80, 86 (WW); 4, 26, 27, 62 (AG) 


Orlar Thammas. 5 6 (WW); 11 (SC) 

Orlumbor. 1 8 (CG); 51 (WW) 

Osco. 65 (WW); 62 (AG) 

Gwen. 6 8 (WW); 59 (AG); 14 (SC) 

Palace of Waterdeep. 9, 31, 34, 36, 45, 47-49, 57, 62, 68, 72-76, 

78, 80, 82, 96 (CG); 4, 30, 40,49, 53,54, 71, 72, 79, 
80, 82, 94 (WW); 3, 5,15,18, 20, 21, 29 (AG); 3, 8 (SC) 

Pampered Traveler. 61 (CG); 42 (WW); 36 (AG) 

Pelauvir's Counter. 7, 36 (AG) 

Phalantar. 3 7 (WW); 20, 36 (AG) 

Phalantar's Philtres & Components. 3 7 (WW); 20, 36 (AG) 

Phaulkon. 33, 34 (CG); 87 (WW); 45, 46, 54, 59 (AG); 4, 6, 9,11-14 (SC) 

Phull. 21, 43 (WW); 24 (AG) 

Phylund. 7, 11, 21, 22, 30 (WW) 

Piatran. 36, 47, 59, 60 (AG); 6, 9, 11, 14, 15 (SC) 

Piergeiron. 2, 3, 9, 31, 33, 35, 47, 57, 62, 67, 68, 70-73, 75-77, 79, 

82, 98 (CG); 6, 30, 44, 49, 51, 64, 80-82, 94 (WW); 

3-5,15,18, 21, 27, 32-34, 44 (AG); 5, 9 (SC) 

Piergeiron's Palace.see Palace of Waterdeep 

Piiradost. 22, 30 (WW); 12 (SC) 

Pirate Isles. 18, 58 (CG) 

Plinth.33, 36, 73,116 (CG); 19, 60-62, 66, 69 (WW); 3,11, 27, 28, 57 (AG) 

Port Hast. 21,102,103 (CG); 31, 46, 73 (WW) 

Purple Palace. 32, 74 (CG); 36 (AG) 

Quaffing Quaggoth. 74 (CG); 20, 37 (AG) 

Quallos Myntion. 45, 58-60 (AG); 3, 6-8, 14 (SC) 

Quill Alley. 62 (CG); 53 (WW); 11 (AG) 

Rachel Arren.101 (CG); 68 (WW); 41, 49, 57, 58 (AG); 4, 5,10,13 (SC) 

Raella Hiess. 109, 110 (CG) 

Rat Hills. 1,18, 32, 56, 58, 65, 66 (CG); 41, 87 (WW) 

Rat Hills Conflagration. 32, 58, 65, 66 (CG); 87 (WW) 

Raurlor . 30, 57 (CG); 28 (AG) 

Rauvin. 13-15, 22 (CG) 

Raventree . 9, 22 (WW) 

Raymid. 43, 54, 55 (AG); 4, 6, 10, 11 (SC) 

Razaar Slissin. 5 5 (WW); 59 (AG) 

Red Sashes. 31, 74, 81 (CG); 47, 66 (WW) 

Red Wizard. 9 4 (CG); 72 (WW); 50 (AG) 

Rednose Alley. 62 (CG); 8 (AG) 

Regnet Amcathra. 10, 67 (WW); 8 (SC) 

Relchoz Hriiat. 38 (WW); 12 (AG) 

Rett. 6 8 (WW); 4 (SC) 



















































































































































Rhyester. 19 (WW); 29 (AG) 

Riath. 43, 59 (AG) 

Riautarv . 42 (WW); 10, 36 (AG) 

Riven Shield Shop. 10, 36 (AG) 

River Gate. 8, 33, 52, 73 (CG); 29, 84 (WW); 7 (AG) 

River Shining. 11, 13, 14, 17, 102 (CG) 

Roaringhom. 23, 30, 65 (WW); 14 (AG) 

Rokkek Ingerr. 42, 47, 51, 57 (AG); 6, 8, 9, 12, 13 (SC) 

Ruathym . 18 (CG); 3, 86 (WW) 

Rulathon. 75 , 76, 82 (CG); 5, 33, 34 (AG) 

Saddlers' & Harness-Makers' Hall. 6 2 (CG); 53, 91 (WW) 

Safehaven Inn. 3 5 (CG); 19, 65 (WW); 

37, 41, 42, 44, 45, 49, 56, 57, 61, 62 (AG); 2, 4, 5, 8,11-13 (SC) 

Sammereza Sulphontis. 18, 71 (CG); 85 (WW) 

Sangalor. 109, 110 (CG) 

Sargair.li. 104, 105, 107, 110 (CG) 

Sarya. 43, 55, 57 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Savengriff. 68, 82 (CG); 66, 81 (WW) 

Scirkhel Wands. 9, 29 (WW) 

Scomubel. 6, 20 (WW) 

Scyphia Jalbuck. 57, 59 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Sea of Fallen Stars. 12 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Seas' Edge Beach. 35, 41 (CG) 

Secomber . 15, 24, 103 (CG); 39 (WW) 

Selchoun's Sundries. 17, 36 (AG) 

Selune. 6, 22, 43, 54 (CG); 18, 61, 64 (WW); 15, 24, 29, 37 (AG); 7, 8 (SC) 

Sembia. 5, 25 (CG); 5, 65 (WW) 

Serpentil Books &Folios. 37 (WW); 22, 36, 37 (AG) 

Sevenlamps Cut. 61, 84 (CG); 21, 37 (AG) 

Shadow Thieves.19, 20, 30, 31, 41, 65, 74 (CG); 47, 71, 86, 88, 95, 96 (WW); 

14, 21 (AG); 5,13 (SC) 

Shalar Simgulphin. 72, 81, 82 (WW) 

Shalara Malarkkin. 75, 78-80 (WW); 8, 55 (AG); 10 (SC) 

Shalrin Meraedos. 53 (WW); 36 (AG) 

Shaun Taunador. 104, 105 (CG) 

Shieldmeet. 11, 24, 31, 67, 68 (CG) 

Shilarn. 27, 28, 30, 31 (CG) 

Shining Falls. 13, 17 (CG) 

Ship's Prow. 24, 37 (AG) 

Shipwrights' House. 51 (WW); 28 (AG) 

Shradin Mulophor. 105-109 (CG) 

Shrines of Nature. 62, 70, 71, 82 (WW); 15, 37 (AG); 10 (SC) 

Shyrrhr. 8 2 (WW); 4 (SC) 

Silavene's. 4 6 (CG); 28 (WW); 20,36 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Silvanus. 60 (CG); 62, 84 (WW); 15 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Silverymoon. 12-15, 22, 23, 47, 68,102,103 (CG); 

31, 32, 61, 77, 81, 87 (WW) 
Skullport.34,46,74, 101, 104-110 (CG); 7, 63, 73, 83, 87-90 (WW); 

63 (AG): 7, 8,10 (SC) 

Smugglers' Dock. 33 (CG); 24, 27, 64 (AG) 

Snake Alley. 6 2 (CG); 39, 40, 45 (AG) 

Snome. 76, 86 (CG); 23, 24, 30 (WW); 59 (AG); 7 (SC) 

Snookery. see Myrmith Splendon 

South Gate. 7, 8,11, 52, 73 (CG); 65 (WW); 7, 64 (AG) 

South Seacaves. 104, 107 (CG) 

Spendthrift Alley. 61, 62 (CG); 52 (WW); 11 (AG) 

Spires of the Morning. 29, 30, 31, 36 (CG); 62, 66, 68 (WW); 

12,15,18, 20, 37 (AG); 4,12 (SC) 

Spouting Fish. 6 2 (CG); 7, 37 (AG) 

Stablemasters' and Farriers' Guild. 51 (CG); 9, 11, 80 (WW) 

Stavros of the Skulls. 87, 88, 90 (CG); 89 (WW) 

Stone Bridge. 13, 18, 22-24, 103 (CG) 

Stone House. 38 (WW); 7 (AG) 

Stormweather. 24, 30 (WW) 

Stump Bog. 23, 30 (CG) 

Sulmest . 51 (WW); 12, 36 (AG) 

Sultlue. 24 (WW); 11 (SC) 

Sumer. 83(WW);9(SC) 

Sundabar. 12, 13, 15, 23, 68, 102, 103 (CG) 

Sune. 33, 41 (CG); 62, 67 (WW); 57 (AG); 11 (SC) 

Surbrin. 13, 20, 24 (CG) 

Talmost. 3 2 (CG); 24, 25 (WW) 

Tarm. 25 (WW); 46, 60 (AG); 9,10,12,15 (SC) 

Telethar Leatherworks. 4 8 (WW); 36 (AG) 

Temple of Beauty. 6 2 (WW); 15, 37 (AG) 

Terresk. 43, 55, 56 (AG); 5, 11 (SC) 

Tesper. 25, 26 (WW) 

Tespergates. 25, 26 (WW) 

Tethyr. 21 (CG); 3, 45, 82, 84-86, 92 (WW); 47 (AG) 

Texter. 68, 71, 72, 82 (CG) 

Thann.4, 7, 46, 72, 86, 95 (CG); 5, 9,19, 26, 27, 85, 86 (WW); 5 (AG); 

4, 6-8,10,11 (SC) 

Tharsult. 45, 92 (WW); 26 (AG) 


Thay. 25, 81, 94 (CG); 55 (WW); 55 (AG) 

Theln Lane. 61 (CG); 11 (AG) 

Thentawa's Boots. 61 (CG); 10, 36 (AG) 

Thirsty Throat. 37, 95-96 (WW); 37, 38, 58 (AG); 3, 13 (SC) 

Thoss Bhalein. 53 (WW) 

Three Pearls Nightclub. 34, 61 (CG); 24, 36 (AG); 5 (SC) 

Thunderstaff.2 7 (WW); 11 (SC) 

Thurve Thentawa.61, 74 (CG); 10, 36 (AG) 

Thvrielentha Snome. 86 (CG): 23, 30 (WW): 7 (SC) 

Time of Troubles. 31, 32, 98,101 (CG); 60, 62, 63, 69 (WW); 

4,15, 28, 56, 61 (AG); 5, 6 (SC) 

Tolgar Anuvien. 6 6 (WW);43 (AG); 6, 7 (SC) 

Tomed Myntion. 45, 53, 59 (AG); 4, 6, 10 (SC) 

Torm. 65 (CG); 50 (AG); 3, 5, 11 (SC) 

Tower of Luck. 62 (WW); 15 (AG) 

Tower of the Order. 56, 69 (WW); 18, 37 (AG); 16 (SC) 

Tower of Twilight. 21 (CG); 66, 73, 76 (WW) 

Travis Deepdell.95, 99 (CG); 68 (WW); 49, 58, 61 (AG); 4, 5, 8, 9,12 (SC) 

Triboar. 18,19, 23,102,103 (CG); 77, 86 (WW); 64 (AG) 

Troll tide. 33 (CG); 30, 88 (WW); 28, 59, 61 (AG); 14,16 (SC) 

Trollwall. 8, 43 (CG); 8, 12 (AG); 13 (SC) 

Tsamen Alley. 6 2 (CG); 11 (AG) 

Turnback Court.61 (CG); 21 (AG) 

Turnstone Pass. 13, 15 (CG) 

Twilight Hunters. 30, 68 (WW); 14, 37 (AG) 

Tymora. 13, 24, 74, 82, 83 (CG); 62, 91 (WW); 29, 37, 38, 47, 56, 59 (AG); 

5, 6, 8, 9,12,14 (SC) 

Tymora's Blessing. 37, 38, 47, 56, 59 (AG) 

Tyr. 33, 47, 71-72, 82 (CG); 11, 61, 80 (WW); 20, 29, 58 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Umberlee . 32, 58, 102 (CG); 28-29 (AG); 15 (SC) 

Umberlee's Cache. 32, 58 (CG); 27-29 (AG) 

Underdark . 11, 37 (AG) 

Undermountain . 10, 29-33, 40, 54, 56, 62-65, 69, 75, 80, 87, 88, 95, 96, 98, 

104-106,108-110 (CG); 13,15, 63, 65-67, 71, 76, 77, 87-90, 93 (WW); 

18, 21, 24, 35, 38, 43, 61, 63 (AG); 7, 9,11,14 (SC) 

Unicom Run. 16, 23, 102 (CG) 

Unicorn's Horn. 61 (CG); 11, 37 (AG); 9 (SC) 

Unseen. 27, 30 (CG); 75, 76, 87, 88 (WW); 16 (SC) 

Urtos Phylund. 7, 11, 21, 22 (WW) 

Utter North. 12, 13 (CG); 78 (WW) 

Vahje. 8 8 (WW); 14, 16 (SC) 

Vhondryl . 104, 109, 110 (CG) 

Vhonna Deepdell. 33 (CG); 68 (WW); 50, 56-58 (AG); 4, 5,12 (SC) 

Vintners', Distillers', and Brewers' Guild. 40 (WW); 59 (AG); 14 (SC) 

Virgin's Square. 50 (CG); 33, 72 (WW); 5,11, 38 (AG) 

Volo. 28, 87, 95 (WW) 

Walking Statue . 35, 43, 45-47, 73 (CG); 21 (AG) 

Wand of the Four Moons. 15, 29 (AG) 

Wands.30,87, 96,105,107 (CG); 9,13,14, 28-30, 68, 73, 76, 81 (WW); 

5, 34 (AG); 7, 8,11,16 (SC) 

Wardfires. 31, 36 (CG); 28, 42, 45 (AG); 6 (SC) 

Warlord .27,30,57, 98 (CG); 28 (AG) 

Watch-Wizards . 58, 73, 76, 82,86-88,90, 96 (CG); 24, 28,88 (WW); 

33, 34, 43, 55 (AG); 7,11,16 (SC) 

Watcher Thistlebuck. 62, 68 (WW); 56, 57 (AG); 2, 4, 5, 10, 12-14 (SC) 

Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors.32-34,49, 52, 81, 84, 85, 87, 88, 90, 

95, 96 (CG); 24, 28, 30, 36,37, 46, 56, 57, 69, 83, 87, 88, 94 (WW); 

11, 33, 46, 52 (AG); 7,11,14,16 (SC) 

Waterdeep Harbor. 56, 58 (CG); 5 (AG) 

Watermens' Hall. 4 7 (WW); 22 (AG) 

Waukeen. 20 (CG); 37, 95 (WW); 8, 29, 36, 47, 58 (AG); 3, 6 (SC) 

Waukeen's Wares. 37, 95 (WW); 36, 47, 58 (AG); 3 (SC) 

Waukeentide. 3 2 (CG); 29 (AG) 

Wavesilver. 42 (CG); 29 (WW) 

Way of the Dragon.9, 52, 61 (CG); 37, 44, 55, 95 (WW); 7, 8, 22, 40 (AG); 

3,14 (SC) 

Weathercote Wood. 14, 24 (CG) 

Weeping Maiden's Run. 40, 41, 44 (AG) 

Westgate . 8 (CG); 84 (WW) 

Wheelwrights' Guild. 57 (WW); 11 (AG) 

Whistling Blades. 22, 36 (AG) 

Wyvem's Rest. 8 8 (WW); 17, 37, 38 (AG) 

Xanathar. 64, 81, 96,104,110 (CG); 87-90, 95, 96 (WW); 13 (SC) 

Yartar. 13, 24, 103 (CG) 

Yawning Portal.31, 63-65, 69, 108 (CG); 3, 65, 67 (WW); 36 (AG); 14 (SC) 

Zakhara. 31 (CG); 86 (WW); 58 (AG) 

Zelphar Arunsun. 29-31 (CG); 26, 86 (WW) 

Zhentarim. 17, 18, 24, 33, 89 (CG) 

Zoar. 28, 31 (CG); 5, 6, 31 (WW) 

Zoarstar . 53 (WW); 10, 37, 47 (AG) 

Zstulkk Ssarmn. 104, 110 (CG) 

Zulpair. 29, 67 (WW) 

Zundbridge . 13, 22, 24, 103 (CG) 




























































































































































Who's Who 
WATERDEEP 


yflPM 




1 


b 7 Art 



." 1 i l A , a ¦"-•- tc: 4- 


*; i "Fii T. "> 
































Who's Who 'no WaTe^deep 

Book II of the Qf\? of S pletobons 

by Ed Greenwood and Steven Schend 


Chapter One: Waterdeep Society . 2-4 

Social Level. 2 

Manners. 3 

Dress & Appearance. 3 

Factions. 4 

Chapter Two: Waterdhavian Nobility . 5-30 

History of Waterdeep's Nobility. 5 

The Nobles' World. 6 

Waterdhavian Nobles Campaign. 7 

The Noble Families. 8 

Chapter Three: Money & the Guilds . 31-59 

Money.31 

Prices. 33 

Fences.36 

The Guilds. 37 

Roster of the Guilds. 38 

Guild Portfolios. 57 

Chapter Four: Religion . 60-63 

Temples and Church Complexes. 60 

Cults of the City. 62 

Chapter Five: The Independent Factions .64-85 

Select Adventuring Companies of Waterdeep.64 

Select Sages of Waterdeep. 69 

Select Independent NPCs of Waterdeep. 71 

Chapter Six: The Enemies of Waterdeep . 86-91 

The Knights of the Shield. 86 

The Shadow Thieves. 86 

The Unseen. 87 

The Xanathar Thieves' Guild. 89 

Appendix One: Life in Waterdeep . 92-95 

Appendix Two: The Thirsty Throat . 96 


Cize&iTs 


Design: Ed Greenwood 

Editing: Karen S Boomgarden & Janis Wells 

Cartography: Eric Hotz, Dennis Kauth & 

Rob Lazzaretti 

Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra 


Additional Design Concepts & 
Development: Steven E. Schend 
Cover Art: Larry Elmore 
Interior Art: Valerie Valusek 
Production: Paul Hanchette 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, DUNGEON MASTER, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM, and 
FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the United States of America. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 


ISBN 1-56076-368-1 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
VVI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 

































CbapTeR Oboe: 

WAleizbeep 

Soc)eTy 


hat should one expect among society in Waterdeep? Anything . . . just 
about anything. The nobles aren't always noble, the merchants care 
more of coin than classes, and the commoners are certainly everything 
but common. Waterdeep is a city of people all communicating the one 
true language of commerce, money and greed." 

- "Kitten" Nymara Scheiron 

Social Level 

G iven Waterdeep's size and the presence of a well-established nobility and a prosperous 
merchant class, many natives of the Realms believe that specific social classes have been 
established, each with rules and "inherent superiorities." Instead of the fragmenting and dis 
tinct splits based on income or birth, Waterdeep has nullified such differences almost entirely. 

"Social level" and "class" are far less important in Waterdeep than in other cities of the 
Realms (and elsewhere); any prejudices against folk due to race, creed, or coin are brought 
in by visitors from outside the walls, and are not tolerated to a large extent. The crossroads 
nature of the city and the up-and-down fortunes of those who make their living in trade 
keeps the inhabitants of the city tolerant of a wide variety of peoples, with widely varying 
customs, religions, and incomes. A paladin native to Waterdeep would readily accept that 
those who reject rigid authority are just as "good" and worthy of his aid as their more 
enlightened neighbors, unless they are actively evil. In a like manner, a noble mage might 
think himself above a dungsweeper, but he would never act superior in dealings with the 
sweeper beyond slight condescension and a simplification of speech. 

In Waterdeep, low birth or station is not a recipe for rudeness from one's betters, beyond 
what one's actions would earn from one's equals in any case-if you are ridiculed in Water- 
deep, you brought such treatment upon yourself! Visiting knights-errant and paladins are, of 
course, a different matter-holding themselves above the common man and living for an 
ideal-although they are soon advised about their pompous elitism by many Waterdha- 
vians. Of course, the watch might take a hand to a very objectionable and disruptive brag 
gart. "Live and let live" best describes most Waterdhavians' attitudes; everyone is far too 
busy in the pursuit of wealth and happiness. Folk who tell others how to act and think are 
more entertainment to the hard-working folk of Waterdeep than a serious social force. 

Masjsj&ks 

T he cosmopolitan nature of the City of Splendors makes its natives very tolerant. They 
tend to be talkative, friendly, easygoing, and outspoken, but do not expect others to 
be. Good Waterdhavian merchants are quick to sense how those they meet like to speak 



















and be spoken to; this penchant allows them to make business 
deals with speed and to mutual advantage and pleasure. 

Natives of the City of Splendors are notoriously slow to 
take offense. A Waterdhavian will plainly state his or her 
feelings as a warning before showing anger. One is more apt 
to hear "I don't find that amusing, friend," said pleasantly to a 
stranger before an angry voice is raised. Some visitors misin 
terpret such behavior as cowardice or ignorance ("he was too 
stupid to know I insulted him!"); if they act on such misjudg- 
ments, however, surprise and regret are the usual results. 

Most Waterdhavians are slow to take fright unless facing 
magic or monsters. A swaggering human warrior threaten 
ing them is quite likely to be stared at calmly, or even 
sneered at. Imzeel Coopercan, the barkeep of the Mighty 
Manticore, once reflected, "A bullying braggart in a Water 
dhavian tavern is as welcome as a loud rope merchant at 
the Ropemakers' Guild meetings -no one's interested in 
what you're peddling, no matter how high a quality, as no 
one has need of nor desire for something in abundance." 
The only warriors that affect Waterdhavians with any fre 
quency wear the colors of the watch and the guard. "The 
only mortals that Waterdhavians fear are a few unstable 
wizards and the Lords," Durnan told a first-time visitor sur 
prised by the nonchalance of the Yawning Portal's regulars 
about the dungeon, "and only when they've incurred the 
wrath of said persons themselves." 

Beings of almost all races may be seen in the city, too. A 
typical Waterdhavian would react with hostility and fear 
only to a drow, an illithid, nonhuman natives of the Lower 
Planes, and, of course, "monsters" such as beholders and 
dragons; with all others, it's generally "business as usual." 

Lecherous and drunken behavior tends to be tolerated 
when considered atypical behavior, and it is treated the 
same as strange manners of speech or customs (though 
some of the Distillers' guild frequently drink to excess while 
"proving the superiority of Waterdhavian spirits to the 
uninitiated"). If a drunken outlander makes a coarse pro 
posal to a Waterdhavian who does not find it amusing or 
inviting, the suggestion will merely be ignored. If repeated, 
the Waterdhavian will leave if he or she wishes to, or sim 
ply state his or her lack of appreciation. This process con 
tinues for some time ere fists fly or blades flash. As a general 
rule-Waterdhavians with hair-trigger tempers who aren't 
powerful wizards simply don't last long. 

Waterdhavians do not discuss the weather, unless in a 
profession governed by it like farmers or sailors. Small talk 
and idle chatter normally centers on matters of commerce, 
and secondarily on warfare elsewhere in the Realms. 


Waterdhavians take a sporting interest in such happenings 
as the constant minor strife in the South, the recurring 
unrest and bloodshed in Tethyr, and traditional and long 
standing shipping discord between Ruathym and Luskan. 

D rtess & Appea^awce 

A ll manner of clothing and garb may be seen on the 
streets of Waterdeep. There are no laws relating to 
dress except to prohibit private citizens from impersonating 
the Lords of the city, the black-robed Magisters, or officers 
and members of the guard or watch. Guild livery can only 
legally be worn by guild members, and is worn when 
appearing before the Lords' Court on official business, dur 
ing holidays, outside the city on diplomatic trading busi 
ness, when appearing before a Black Robe, and at any 
private guild functions that guild laws require it to be worn 
to, such as voting meetings. Coats of arms to which one is 
not entitled cannot, of course, be copied and worn. 

Nobles usually do not wear their coat-of-arms, except in 
signet rings, belt buckles, or pendants; their servants wear 
clothes emblazoned with their coats-of-arms. Nobles wear 
any sort of dress without social censure; it is common for 
noble women attending parties and other functions to wear 
glittering, diaphanous gowns of silk and sequins, their lower 
bodies concealed by layers of translucent silk, and their 
upper bodies festooned with jewelry (and, if the weather is 
cold, fur gloves that reach up to points at the shoulders). 
Most "high fashion" noble party dresses involve masks, 
although many are not intended to conceal the wearer's 
identity, but merely to provide a means of further adorn 
ment. Younger noble ladies often wear gowns with elaborate 
filigree "stomachers" in exquisite designs (often set with 
gems), and the arms and front of the lady will themselves be 
covered with glued-on gold dust and sequins. A stomacher is 
a rigid garment, in this case, of open wire-work worn over a 
silken dress, extending from crotch to breast; Waterdhavian 
examples often sweep up both sides of the bodice into fantas 
tic swirls and points on the shoulders. 

Mercenary and adventuring company members usually 
wear the devices of their organizations openly, with pride, 
on the city streets; again, it is a crime to falsely wear such 
garb, although a plaintiff must prove (by oath of recognized 
officers of such a body, or the enlistment rolls, or both) that 
such a person is unlawfully bearing such a device -such 
complaints are, as a result, rarely successful. 

Jewelry is worn by both sexes in the City of Splendors; 
some people festoon themselves with its glitter, and others 





never wear a single bauble, regardless of personal wealth. 
All manner of hairdos may be seen, and all types and colors 
of clothing are used. There is no law against nudity or 
requiring particular areas of the body be covered, but 
Waterdeep is a coastal city -when it isn't raining (or in 
winter, snowing), there is usually mist about the streets. 
Despite the sheltering mountain, the city streets can also 
be windy in bad weather and around highsun (dawn, dusk, 
and night tends to be calmer). These conditions preclude 
light or skimpy dress for most beings, most of the time. 

The fashions of other planes, as well as other lands, may 
be seen on the city streets, so dress is individual and vari 
ance is freely tolerated. There is no such thing as "not in 
fashion" in the City of Splendors, in regards to dress. How 
ever, the younger nobles' games of one-up-manship in dar 
ing or unique clothing tend to sway opinions toward 
certain modes of dress and away from others. 

FacOoms 

N ow that Waterdhavian societal norms are covered, 
the discussion turns to what drives such a society. 
The citizens of the city can be organized in terms of "power 
groups" that collectively influence the workings of Water- 
deep, and the various "power groups" of Waterdeep can be 
divided into four factions. Picture these as the four comers 
of a rectangle or a diamond, each tugging at the others but 
all equally counterbalanced, so that although one faction 
may gain the ascendant, none can completely eliminate or 
absolutely rule the others without destroying the city. 
These four factions are the Ruling Faction, the Guilds, the 
Temples, and the Independents. 

The Ruling Faction consists of the Lords, the Magisters, 
the guard, the watch, the Palace officials and diplomats, and 
the special groups working directly (and discreetly) for the 
Lords. This faction traditionally has the upper hand in 
Waterdeep, and the Lords are extremely careful to ensure 
that things stay that way by retaining (ruthlessly, if need be) 
the absolute loyalty of the other members of this faction, par 
ticularly the guard (which, traditionally, the guilds always try 
to purchase the loyalty of). With few exceptions, the nobles 
are considered part of the Ruling Faction, as they stand 
squarely behind it. The nobles largely leave the Lords alone 
in terms of city rule, and they are thus far more free to act as 
they wish without responsibilities beyond their immediate fis 
cal duties. At one time, almost all the noble families con 
trolled the guilds; these days, most noble families withdraw 
from the cut-and&rust of active guild membership (only to 


replace such activity with the social cut-and-thrust within 
the nobility). The Lords and all their agents (the watch, et 
al) were detailed in the Campaign Guide to the City and the 
nobles are discussed in Chapter Two of this book. 

The Guilds are detailed in Chapter Three of this book. 
They operate within limits set by the Lords, some only as 
far as the Lords' vigilance forces them to. The DM should 
be passingly familiar with these guilds before any play 
involving the city commences. Their ranks will provide 
"honest jobs" for PCs, while most of the NPCs they will 
have daily dealings with will be members of various ranks 
and influence. If properly handled by the DM, the guilds 
and the quirks of each (and its members) can provide much 
of the "life" of the city in an ongoing campaign. 

The Temples and priesthoods, long thought of as "silent 
partners" among the power groups of the city, work their 
ends solely through their influence in the common people. 
Their control is evident only by exhortation and by direct 
diplomatic appeal to the Palace on behalf of one faith or 
one congregation. In recent years, since the Godswar left 
its mark on Waterdeep, the city has seen a resurgence of 
influence from the temples; while it has far from the same 
hold that mercantilism has on the collective nature of 
Waterdeep, religion grows and affects the city as it never 
has in the past. See Chapter Four of this book for details. 

The most numerous of the blocs, the Independents faction 
consists of any private citizens of Waterdeep who do not belong 
to a guild. Most adventurers (PCs and NPCs) and mercenaries 
are members of this faction, as are lone wizards and thieves. 
This faction gains its name from the independent (nonguild) 
merchants of Waterdeep. The lack of any common organiza 
tion renders this most numerous group the least powerful. 

The most active interfactional rivalry in Waterdeep is 
between the Guilds and the Ruling faction, a rivalry tradition 
ally won by the Lords because of the personal strength of the 
Lords, although weaker Lords could crack down on all other 
factions with stiffer, martial law; of course, the only effect this 
would have in the end would be to ruin Waterdeep's ever 
growing prosperity, and the Lords, own popularity. Waterdeep 
is not like many more corrupt cities in the South, however, 
which squander their time, resources, and energy in futile feuds 
and vendettas of power. By and large, everyone in the City of 
Splendors is too busy making or spending money to care 
enough about such rivalries to cause any open conflict. This or 
that individual might slay or trick a rival individual, but the 
factions do not see themselves as cohesive groups warring with 
each other. Indeed, within guilds, priesthoods, and nobles, 
there are stronger rivalries than between factions. 




CbapTeR Tujo: 

Nobles of The 

C"Ty 

- ilettantes and daggers-that's what the nobility of Water deep is all about. While 
many are ineffectual fops and dandies (and I oft play that role), the rumors, 
threats, or vows from the razor-sharp tongues of some enraged nobles can be 
more dangerous than any monsters of the Sword Coast! The ever-present par 
ties among the villas are not just considered amusements; they are wars, where 
alliances and agendas both known and covert are forged, broken, and forged anew in the space of 
an evening, and rivals can be brought low by the strength of one well-placed rumor. Few nobles 
are truly evil, but many are ruthless and opportunistic in nature; one cannot truly know another 
noble, just what face is currently offered. As I can well attest, what you see is rarely what you get 
when dealing with the gentrified denizens of Waterdeep. " 

- Danilo [harm, circa 1367 Dalereckoning 

HjsTorzY of WaTeR.£>eep 's 
Nob fifty 

O ver the course of Waterdeep's centuries-long history, the fiscal opportunities and 
the notoriety of this open port made it quite attractive to outsiders looking for 
places to establish trade. Once there, the freedoms allowed to the guilds and the mer 
chants-as well as the lack of serious political plotting between the guilds and the city 
rulers-made it irresistible, and many merchants and lesser nobles of other lands settled 
there, creating a minor nobility and merchant class during Ahghairon's rule. 

During the time of Ahghairon, nearly a hundred rich merchant families from all 
areas of the Sword Coast and parts east (including not a few lesser nobles of Cormyr 
and Sembia) settled in the fledgling city of Waterdeep, using their money and influence 
to increase the trade (and their own personal power) in the city. With these early suc 
cessful beginnings, the merchant families soon became the mainstays of Waterdeep's 
early social and civil stability. After a time, and with their growing influence in the bur 
geoning guilds, these merchants and transplanted nobles became the mainstays of 
Waterdeep's early social and civil stability and swiftly grew into the city's "high society" 
and bastions of cultural tone. 

Over the centuries, some of these families have died out or been submerged by mar 
riage, and others have arisen with each decade (see "Nobles & Their Clans" below). 
When Ahghairon died, many noble houses also controlled the guilds, patriarchs often 
being the Guild Masters themselves. While Ahghairon ruled, the Lords provided a bal 
ance to the unified power of the guilds and the nobility, and the city prospered with its 
open trade; with the great mage's passing and the subsequent hunting down and killing 
of the secretive Lords, the nobles used their own forces and the resources of their guilds 


5 










to assert the rule they believed was theirs to take. 

In the 17 years when the Guild Council governed the city, 
many members of over 30 noble houses were decimated by 
the Guildwars and other ensuing conflicts. Only eight noble 
houses fell entirely, their lands and resources absorbed into 
those of their killers. Many young heirs, cowed by the ruth 
lessness of some noble Guild Masters and the general blood 
shed involved with their internal guild politics, renounced all 
claims within the guilds and stayed out of the conflicts. By 
the time of the Lords Magister, only the noble houses of the 
Gildeggh and Zoar families still controlled any guilds. 

The houses Zoar and Gildeggh ruled Waterdeep for a 
short time, but justice prevailed at last, with the return of 
the Lords of Waterdeep under Open Lord Baeron. Because 
of their crimes against the people of the city, the families of 
the Lords Magister were declared Outcast by Baeron, and 
the Gildeggh and Zoar clans were permanently exiled from 
Waterdeep. Today, the Gildeggh family line is believed 
extinct; the arms of the Gildeggh family were a red rose 
clutched in a silver gauntlet, on a green field. The Zoar 
family is still a bitter enemy of Waterdeep's rulers, its mem 
bers dwelling in Luskan, Scornubel, and Amn, and 
rumored to be allied with the Knights of the Shield; the 
Zoar arms consist of a realistic, severed umber hulk's head 
impaled on a bloody spear, on a scarlet field. 

After the "Bloody Misrule of the Lords-Magister" and the 
return of the Lords, the noble families renounced many of 
their old guild alliances and power bases. Slavery, which 
Ahghairon banned but the Lords-Magister reinstated, was 
again outlawed in a mandate by the new Open Lord Baeron 
and his fellow Lords; the few nobles still actively involved in 
this trade were actively censured until such trade stopped 
entirely. With the stability of the Lords' rule returned, Water- 
deep soon became the thriving port city again, the trade of 
the guilds once again lawful and fair (through no small influ 
ence by the Lords upon the elections of new Guild Masters), 
and the nobles reduced to their trades and parties, not gov 
ernment. It has been nearly a century since the Lords' return, 
and the 76 noble families of Waterdeep work with the Lords 
and the Ruling Faction far more now than they ever did in 
the past (though not without some resentment. . . ). 

The NobLes' Would 

M any noble families of Waterdeep have been enno 
bled for hundreds of years -some can trace their 
genealogies, back six hundred years or more. However, 
there is no established order of precedence or seniority 


among the nobility. At Court, nobles may speak whenever 
recognized by Piergeiron, or when silently pointed at by 
one of the masked Lords. While it is of some minor effect 
among the social circles of the nobles themselves, the 
length of time a family has been nobility in Waterdeep is of 
little impact or importance to the city at large and its other 
peoples. The time merely serves as a benchmark of how 
successful a given family has been at working with the 
Lords, the guilds, and the changes of the growing City of 
Splendors. Below are a number of items that affect the lives 
of the nobles or those around them in Waterdeep: 

Nobles & Tbe)R CLams 

Given the instability and the dangers of the Realms, nobles 
and those to whom it is important to pass on a family name 
and inheritance have huge families. Most noble families 
have fifteen or so members of direct blood resident in 
Waterdeep. One or all of these may also own extensive 
holdings elsewhere in the Realms and other residences in 
the city. A noble household typically houses fifty or so ser 
vants, and has available mounts for all blood members and 
about half of the servants. Many noble families are also 
landlords of substantial holdings within the city. Owner 
ship of buildings around one's own villa is the best way to 
rid oneself of noisy, undesirable neighbors. 

Titles, lands, and funds can be inherited by any child or 
heir of a noble patriarch or matriarch. The standard prac 
tice in the Realms assumes the eldest child (regardless of 
sex) inherits the title and the majority holdings of a family, 
with younger siblings and other relations getting lesser 
legacies. Living rulers of a noble family can proclaim a dif 
ferent heir should they choose, but such a proclamation 
must take place in the Lord's Court, keeping the city rulers 
apprised of who stands to inherit the lands and titles (and 
avoiding any problems with contesting the inheritance 
after a ruler's passing). The changing of an heir is rare, most 
often occurring after the death of the heir (though a num 
ber of heirs have refused family lands and titles, dedicating 
their lives to religious orders). 

Matriarchal noble families are not uncommon in Water- 
deep or the rest of the Realms; established matriarchs wish 
ing to marry a nobleman can choose to adopt his name and 
family holdings (at which time she would abdicate her title 
and legacy to her chosen heir), or her husband can become 
a matriarch's consort (the husband abdicates any former 
family inheritances and holdings in order to share in his 
wife's title and station, and he is most often referred to as 
"Lord-Consort"). If either spouse (or both) is a solitary heir 




with no heirs to receive his or her title, family portfolios 
can combine under one name and one titular head of the 
house. When this happens, 43% of the houses retain the 
matriarchal house, 49% maintain the patriarchal house, 
and a rare 8% create an entirely new dynasty; this has hap 
pened twice within the past four decades. The Maerklos 
family was formed 32 years ago with the fusing of the matri 
archal Marrek family holdings and the Relekos clan hold 
ings of her consort. More recently. Lord Urtos Phylund II 
married Lythis Mhairuun, the sole heir of her merchant 
family, and absorbed her family holdings into his own. 

Nobles & The Cff\? 

Noble families are granted the right to bear arms-that is, 
real arms: Small private armies (no more than 70 fully- 
equipped men-at-arms) within the city to guard the secu 
rity of their goods, properties, and trade. Non-noble 
families, businesses, and individuals in the city are allowed 
no more than 16 fully-armed bodyguards, by edict of the 
Lords. While this seems unfair to outsiders, natives of the 
city recognize the benefit of these men-at-arms as addi 
tional protection (provided they are allied with a noble 
willing to provide them). As well, men-at-arms are not one 
massed army at a villa, but are scattered about all the 
noble's properties across the city. 

Nobles are also granted the right to bear symbolic arms, 
also known as "arms of grace": heraldic coats-of-arms, to be 
used as recognition-badges by such armsmen. The family 
coat-of-arms is borne by all men-at-arms and low-ranking ser 
vants of each noble family, and thus is often seen in the 
streets of Waterdeep. The heraldry of Waterdeep may seem 
simplistic and crude, but this is largely due to practical con 
siderations, such as the need to readily recognize a distinctive 
family device from afar, even in twilight, bad weather, torch 
light, or in a fight. Lastly, the heraldry reflects the personal 
tastes of the nobles and of the Heralds involved over the 
years. Close examination of the coats-of-arms will reveal 
many complex elements, although differencing (by labels) is 
rare, as only family members who have had a deep, long-last 
ing breach with their kin request differentiated arms for 
themselves-and most such individuals usually leave the City 
of Splendors for more hospitable habitations elsewhere in the 
Realms. The coats-of-arms are all displayed below with the 
noble families roster. No "arms of grace" have been granted 
by the Lords of Waterdeep in more than 30 winters (since the 
formation of the Maerklos arms); this recognition of nobility 
involves Falconfree, the Herald of Waterdeep, and unani 
mous agreement of the Lords, an action that seldom occurs. 


Villas of the nobility are all grand houses with additional 
buildings for servants and guests; the majority of the villas are 
walled around the property perimeter, many with interior gar 
dens. The walls around the villas were more functional when 
the villas were still outside the city walls, and needed walls for 
constant protection of those inside. Now, with the villas 
inside Waterdeep, the walls provide more privacy than pro 
tection, though this doesn't mean that the villas are easy to 
pillage. DMs are encouraged to invent fiendish guardians 
(from the mundane to the magical) for any noble's villa that 
PCs try to explore uninvited. Remember, money is no object 
to most nobles; they are rich enough that they need not work 
if they do not care to and can invest money in things like a 
"magical alarm system" and other surprises. 

While the nobles are afforded quite a few privileges 
within the city by the Lords, they are expected, by the 
nature and the wealth of their station, to contribute to the 
general welfare of the city and its denizens. As such, a hun 
dredth of the annual wealth of each noble family goes 
directly into the city coffers each Midsummer for the 
defense and maintenance of the city. 

One of the strictest and most harshly enforced law of the 
Lords is the prohibition against slavery in Waterdeep. In 
the past, many noble families gained great wealth through 
slave trade. Many years ago, under Ahghairon's rule and 
again with the re-establishment of Lords' rule, the nobles 
were given the choice of freeing all slaves and ceasing such 
trade, or becoming Outcast and exiled. All renounced the 
slave trade, and, aside from that in Skullport, no serious 
slavetrading has existed near Waterdeep in nearly a cen 
tury. Some vague rumors about Waterdhavian nobles 
indulging in slavetrading regularly make the rounds about 
those families with connections in the far South. 

Precise details of the wealth and full activities of the 
noble families are deliberately excluded from this chapter, 
so each DM can involve such nobility in adventures as he 
or she sees fit, tailoring details to adventures and to the 
political situations in the city in his or her individual cam 
paign. For similar reasons, many details of most of the 
prominent noble family members are up to the DM. 

WaTeRdhav)AK> 

NobLes CampalgN 

T his campaign is based entirely within the social cir 
cles of the privileged of Waterdeep and could be an 
utter gold mine of roleplaying opportunities for experi- 




enced players. In short, the campaign focuses on the activi 
ties of nobles young and old, such as: 

• Wliat do nobles do to stave off boredom in summer! As sum 
mer is the height of the social season, PC nobles have lit 
tle problem here, save for the sheer variety of activity. 
Indulgent lords might allow favored daughters and sons 
to spend money in constructive pursuits like building 
their own townhomes or establishing a festhall. Other 
exercises are finding out who's spreading vicious rumors 
about them, or deciding which parties and receptions the 
PCs will attend or host. 

. What do nobles do to stave off boredom in winter? As the sea 
son where many nobles are gone from the city, PCs can 
travel south and have adventures outside their element. 
They could also remain in the city, doing much mischief 
among the empty villas of North and Sea Wards or land 
ing in trouble in the taverns of Dock Ward. 

. How do young nobles stay on the good side of their patri 
arch/matriarch? PCs can either be embarassments for their 
respective elders and be subject to censure, or they could 
be great heroes and praised by the elder lord or lady. Of 
course, success raises the expectations of a championing 
noble and PCs might be forced into situations they can't 
succeed at. All through this, PCs must maintain a careful 
balancing act between satisfying their benefactors and 
keeping a low enough profile to stay out of trouble with 
the nobles and Lords. 

. Who are your rivals and what rumors can you spread about 
them? Who said everything had to be nice? Nobility 
thrives on back-biting, cut-and-thrust social wars, but 
skill and subtlety are more prized and impressive than 
power and directness in the verbal sparring of two ene 
mies. Rumors are best spread in taverns and inns, whis 
pering just loud enough so others can hear; regardless of 
the truth of the matter, the rumor can do its damage 
swiftly if it reaches the right ears. (To avoid a rumor 
being traced back to the PCs, rarely attempt this sort of 
thing in North or Sea Ward.) Regardless of the rivalry's 
origin (competing interests, both in love with one NPC, 
etc.), only extraordinary measures will cause truces or 
changes in the relationship. 

• How do you feel about those attention-stealing adventurers? 
While many young nobles take to the road due to lack of 
standing at home or a desire to prove themselves to the fam 
ily, adventuring for many nobles is something that happens 
when they're too slow to avoid it. Such exploits are nasty, 
unpleasant things that (thankfully) happen to somebody 
else, and can be laughed over at a party, half a year later! 


When creating noble PCs and NPCs, the players and the 
DM are encouraged to give them individual styles and 
characters; most are decadent, arrogant, and privileged, but 
few are really evil or depraved. They are all used to getting 
their own way in most daily doings. Nobles make formida 
ble enemies. Most nobles spend their adult lives in an end 
less round of parties, intrigue, dabbling in special interests, 
and partying again. 

The Noble FamiLies 

A ll of the noble families are listed below, complete 
with heraldic coats-of-arms, family NPCs, and the 
family's source of money listed in each entry. Note that the 
arms that are presented are idealized versions, as might be 
found on a tapestry within a family villa; simplified versions 
with the same basic design are on family signet rings, wax 
seals, and servants' clothes. "Prominent Members" are the 
leading NPCs of the noble family, and those with wide 
influence and fame (or infamy) in the city. A number of 
families have "regents" listed; these are people to manage 
the business interests of the family if the heir should inherit 
the titles while still a minor (under age 16). "Trade & 
Interests" refers to activities engaged in all over the 
Realms, not just in the city. 

Additional information on some noble families is given 
for the Dungeon Master, and is placed just below the stan 
dard entry. Not all noble families have extra material on 
their members; these additions are made to provide an 
introduction to noble characters and their machinations 
and intrigues, and allow DMs to work those plots into your 
AD&D(r) game campaigns. 

Family Name: ADARBRENT (Ah-DAR-brent) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Royus Adarbrent 
Consort: None 
Heir: Alroy Adarbrent 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: shipping, 
navigating, cartography, 
and exploration 
Arms: field: gold 
star: red 

stalactites: purple 
cavern ceiling: purple 




Adarbrent, Alroy: (NG hm FO; WIS 15) While not the 
most hardy of seamen on board ship, Alroy Adarbrent, 
the 37-year-old heir to the Adarbrent shipping fortunes, 
is one of the best navigators in the city today. He has 
successfully completed a trip to Maztica with his sister 
and her ships, their return to the City of Splendors elic 
iting much fanfare (and gold, from the rare import prod 
ucts brought back). Alroy is madly in love with Galinda 
Raventree, despite his father's disapproval of her family. 

Adarbrent, Ellis: (LG hm FO; CON 8, INT 17) Ellis is 
the third child of Royus, and he is the only one not working 
for his father. He works as a journeyman cartographer at 
Laran's Cartographers (AQ12 on the Adventurers' Quarter 
map), and the 23-year-old is working feverishly with Laran 
to translate his siblings' recent charts and logbooks to create 
a more detailed map of the Maztican coastlands. He is a 
very quiet man, who stutters when he gets nervous. 

Adarbrent, Royus: (LG hm FO; INT 16, CHA 17) 
Royus is a spry 60-year-old man who came to Waterdeep 
from Cormyr with his father 57 years ago. The Adar 
brent Shipping Company was a success from the start, 
and Lord Royus now has the third largest fleet of ships 
in Waterdeep (after the city guard and the Guild of 
Watermen). His wife died eight years ago after a long ill 
ness, and he is now seeking companionship, much to 
the dismay of his eldest son and heir, Alroy. 

Adarbrent, Syllia: (CG hf F3; STR 17, CON 15, CHA 
18) The only daughter of the Adarbrent family, Syllia is a 
true spitfire. She is her mother's daughter, as Royus often 
points out, with her willfulness, tenacity, and temper; these 
driving qualities, coupled with an excellent ability to lead 
others, made her the only female fleet captain on the 
northern Sword Coast! Her officers of the fleet and the 
men on her flagship, the Hippocampus, are intensely loyal 
to her. She is rarely in Waterdeep, preferring to spend 
much of her time at sea; this habit has intensified of late, as 
her father is trying to arrange a marriage for her, since he 
doesn't approve of her lover, Farid Al-Nisr (CG hm W5), 
who joined her crew a year ago in Calimport. 

Family Name: 

AGUNDAR (Ah-GUN-dar) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Torres Agundar 
Consort: Lynneth Sinmeklos 
(23-year-old fiancee) 

Heir: Torres Agundar II (27-year 
old son from first marriage) 


Trade & Interests: mercenary 

fighting, warrior training, sword-forging 
Arms: field: sky blue 
lightning bolt: white 
cloud: purple 

Family Name: AMCATHRA (Am-CATH-ra) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Challas Amcathra 
Consort: Miri Amcathra 
Heir: Arilos Amcathra (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: wine, 

sword-forging, horse-breeding 
and training 
Arms: field: red 
crescents: silver 
flame: blue 


Amcathra, Arilos: (NG hm FO) Heir to the Amcathra 
lordship, Arilos never rests on his privileges and accom 
plishments, and is constantly compelled to do his best at 
whatever he tries. Currently, he is the member rumored to 
be the next Guild Master of the Stablemasters' and Farri 
ers' Guild, and Belihands Masker publicly praises and 
endorses this middle-aged man for his industriousness. 

Amcathra, Challas: (NG hm F2) This aging noble 
was once one of the up-and-coming adventurers of the 
Sword Coast, but this ended when he inherited the 
Amcathra lordship at age 26 (plagues and tavern brawls 
killed his six elder brothers). Swiftly approaching 100 
years of age. Lord Challas Amcathra plans to pass on his 
title and responsibilities to Arilos by summer, and retire 
to a life of indolent travel. He actually has purchased 
potions of longevity for himself and his wife (to ease the 
strain of travel), and their first trip is a visit to Shadow- 
dale and its lord, their youngest son, Mourngrym. He is 
content and happy with his huge family of nine children 
and 19 grandchildren, but he longs to get away from 
Waterdeep's hustle-and-bustle and spend quiet time 
with Jhynn, his wife of 72 years. 

Amcathra, Regnet: (NG hm F4) Regnet, the second 
son of Arilos, is a popular and well known man about 
town. Famed for his tastes in clothes and drink, he has 
friends and acquaintances (and not a few enemies) in 
nearly every tavern in town; he considers the bard 
Danilo Thann, North Ward watch civilar Emmer Jund- 
hyl. Mother Tathlorn, and Scirkhel Wands among his 
closest confidantes. He is also a member of the Deep 
Delvers adventuring company (see Chapter Five). 









Family Name: AMMAKYL (AM-ah-kil) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Luth Ammakvl 
Consort: Jadzia Ammakyl 
Heir: Gural Ammakyl (second son) 

Trade & Interests: farming, 
wine-making 
Arms: field: sky blue 

ground: rich green 
water: blue & silver 
tree: black 
cloud: white 



Family Name: ANTEOS (AN-tee-oh-sss) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Dulbrawan Anteos 
Consort: Ranaya Anteos 
Heir: Korras Anteos (younger 
brother); no direct heir (first 
child stillborn) 

Trade & Interests: trading, money 
changing and barter; former 
interests in slave trade 
Arms: field: white 

spears: brown shafts, silver heads 
impaled head: brown hair & beard, 
pink flesh, red blood (lots) 



Family Name: ARTEMEL (ARR- 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Bresnoss Artemel 
Consort: Lydda Artemel 
Heir: Ord Artemel (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: hunting (boar, 
monsters), moneylending 
Arms: field: sky blue 
eagle's wing: white upper 
feathers, black lower feathers 


tem-el) 



Family Name: ASSUMBAR (Asss-UM-bar) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Laeros Assumbar 
Consort: Kerri Assumbar 
Heir: Myklos Assumbar (infant 
son); Circe Assumbar (lord's 
sister, regent until Myklos is 16) 

Trade & Interests: carpentry, 
designing exotic and splendid 
carriages 

Arms: field: pink 
goblet: silver 

helm: silver, with gold crown-feathers 
and green plume-feather 






10 




Family Name: BELABRANTA (BEL-ah-brahn-tah) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Huld Belabranta 
Consort: Alith Belabranta 
Heir: Moedt Belabranta 
Trade & Interests: griffon 
breeding & taming, hunting 
Arms: field: white 
stream: light blue 
netting: purple 


Belabranta, Huld: (NE hm W16) Known as the "Dark 
Enchanter," Lord Huld Belabranta is a powerful mage 
with a taste for power. Lord Huld uses anything from 
information to magic to steal power and wealth from 
others while he jealously hoards his own. Tavern tales 
say he was once a smiling, generous host years ago, but 
something dark now infests his home and his soul. 

Belabranta, Kerryn: (N hm T5) Second in line for 
the family legacy, Kerryn has been estranged from his 
father for years. Living in his own townhouse in Castle 
Ward, he is a friend of Arilos Amcathra and is the best 
griffon-tamer in the Stablemasters' and Farriers' Guild. 

Khaernos, Rycc: (CE hem W2; CHA 17) Though he 
seems as innocent as a child, Rycc uses Huld's paranoia 
and his position as Huld's apprentice to keep him at 
odds with his sons, hoping to inherit some money and 
power as a "more-worthy heir" of the Dark Enchanter. 


Family Name: BLADESEMMER 

(BLAYD-sem-mer) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Taeros Bladesemmer 
Consort: Onya Bladesemmer 
Heir: Dhannan Bladesemmer 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: fencing, 
sword-forging, designing 
exotic body armor 
Arms: field: orange 
blade: silver 
hand: pink flesh 
chevron: red 
upper field: light green 


Family Name: BROKENGULF (BROH-ken-gulf) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Morus Brokengulf 
Consort: None 
Heir: Prendergast Brokengulf 
(elder brother of lord) 

Trade & Interests: exploration, 
guiding, and the hunting and 
procuring of exotic beasts 
Arms: field: sky blue 
mountain: gray 
cavern and trail: red 


Brokengulf, Morus: (LN hm F2) The second son of the 
previous Lord Brokengulf, Morus is a calm, business- 
minded negotiator, and never loses his temper. He is 
also an excellent explorer and mountaineer (he is sorely 
out of practice on his fighting skills, though). 

Brokengulf, Morus II: (LG hm Pal2; STR 18(78)) 
Morus the Younger is the sole heir of Lord Brokengulf 
and his now-deceased wife Anja. For years, he 
attended the Halls of Justice, Tyr's temple, and 
believed the teachings of Harkas Kormallis, the pal 
adin. By the age of sixteen, Morus was a paladin and a 
Tyrite zealot as well, cutting off his own right hand in 
sacrifice to Tyr (he magically gained the skill and 
strength to wield a two-handed sword in one hand). 
Morus abdicated his birthright for the cause of Tyr, 
and he now roams the Sword Coast, religiously doing 
good in Tyr's name. 

Brokengulf, Prendergast: (CN hm Fll; STR 
18(57), DEX 16) The elder of the two brothers, Pren 
dergast (his friends call him "Gast") is the hunstman 
and the active agent of the family outside the city 
walls. He is a friend of Lord Phylund, and, like him, 
prefers being outdoors and outside the city. Gast holds 
no grudges against his younger brother's title, as he 
never wanted it at all. Despite some rumors he hears 
about the fates of her former consorts, Gast is currently 
head-over-heels in love with the widowed Lady 
Aridarye Phylund, and answers her every whim 
(though he will not knowingly do anything that might 
harm his old friend, Lord Urtos Phylund). 













Family Name: BROSSFEATHER 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Orbul Brossfeather 
Consort: Katya Brossfeather 
Heir: Pol Brossfeather 
Trade & Interests: forestry, 
lumbering, 
fur-trapping, guiding 
Arms: field: gold 
feathers: red 

axe: blade silver, handle brown 

Family Name: CASSALANTER (CASS-ah-lan-ter) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ohrl Cassalanter 
Consort: Sylull Cassalanter 
Heir: Panricon Cassalanter 
Trade & Interests: banking, 
moneylending, information 
gathering, rumor-mongering 
(spreading rumors, for fees) 

Arms: field: white 
yoke: green 

bird: white with gold beak, 
black feathers 

DM Note: Caladorn Cassalanter is not considered a promi 
nent family member; only the Lords and the DM know he 
is a Lord -his family believes him to be a fighting instruc 
tor at the Field of Triumph. 

Family Name: CRAGSMERE (Crags-MEER) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Japhyl Cragsmere 
("The Hawk") 

Consort: Avren Cragsmere 
Heir: Shan Cragsmere 

(eldest daughter, "Lady Hawk") 

Trade & Interests: land-owning, 
moneylending 
Arms: field: purple 
water & stars: silver 
crag: gold front, silver backslopes 
ground: black 

lower tip of shield: gold (rising sun) 


Family Name: CROMMOR (CROM-mor) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Duth Crommor 
Consort: Brigit Crommor 
Heir: Kadiou Crommor 
Trade & Interests: brasswork, 
including muscial instruments 
(trumpets on family arms) 

Arms: field: white 
bands: red 

trumpets: gold, with orange 
openings 

Family Name: DEZLENTYR (Des-LEN-teer) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Arlos Dezlentyr 
Consort: Erin Dezlentyr (second 
wife) 

Heir: Corin Dezlentyr (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: caravan 
trading and shipping, 
exploration, island settlement, 
establishment of harbors 
Arms: field: (lower half) red, 

(upper half) white 
stripes: white 
anchor: silver 
border: royal blue 
water: light blue 
island with tree: rich green 


Dezlentyr, Arlos: (LN hm FO) The fifth lord of the Dez 
lentyr family dynasty, Arlos acutely feels the weight of 
family obligations on him. He has little interest in the 
shipping business and even less in running the caravans; 
he would much rather be exploring far-off lands himself, 
rather than leaving those tasks to his children. His first 
wife was slain 14 years ago by an assassin; Arlos still 
believes a political enemy of his in Waterdeep engi 
neered the attack, as many objected when he married 
the elven maiden (some disliking the precedent of a 
nonhuman noble). He remarried ten years ago to Erin 
Cassalanter, a younger daughter of that house, and 
defers heavily to her judgment in all things. 










12 





Dezlentyr, Corin: (CG hem F2) The heir to the Dez- 
lentyr fortunes, Corin is a dashing young sea captain 
and explorer. Unlike his father, he shows a great apti 
tude for all aspects of the Dezlentyr business interests, 
and has performed every task asked of him to perfec 
tion. Despite his half-elven blood, many among the 
nobility accept him far more than they do his father. 
His twin Corinna and he are quite close, and he wor 
ries about her daredevil nature (while he revels in his 
own matching disposition). 

Dezlentyr, Corinna: (LN hef W3/F3) The twin of 
her brother Corin, Corinna is a great beauty like her 
mother with her platinum hair and blue eyes (the 
nearly-identical features on her brother appear quite dis 
tinguished). She is fully capable of running the family 
business as well as her brother (thanks to Erin's tutor 
ing), but she prefers her daring lifestyle as an adventurer. 
Always needing to be the center of attention, Corinna is 
the only woman among the noble-born Deep Delvers of 
Undermountain, and they, as well as other noblemen, 
are her constant suitors. 

Dezlentyr, Erin: (LN hf FO) Erin was the fourth 
daughter of Lord Cassalanter and inherited his business 
sense, but was not in line for the family title. This all 
mattered little when she married Arlos Dezlentyr; she 
helped him raise his two older children and three more 
of their own, and she now helps him run the business. 
Many know that Erin is the real genius behind Dezlen 
tyr affairs and her careful, frugal management is the sole 
reason the family still has its large fortunes. 

Family Name: DURINBOLD (DUR-in-bold) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Buldos Durinbold 
Consort: Caith Durinbold 
Heir: Breton Durinbold (third 
son, STR 18(00)) 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, cattle-rearing, 
sheep-farming 
Arms: field: white 
battlements: gray 
men in armor: silver 
arrows: black 

standard: red (banner), gold (ball on top), black (shaft) 



Family Name: EAGLESHIELD (EE-gull-sheeld) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Nuthos Eagleshield 
Consort: Glenn Eagleshield 
Heir: Arundel Eagleshield 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: tack-making, 
mercenary fighting, animal 
husbandry 

Arms: field: sky blue 
water: purple 
sun: gold 

bands of cloud: black 
eagle: red 

Family Name: EIRONTALAR (EYE-ron-TAL-ar) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Marius Eirontalar 
Consort: Chalan Eirontalar (active 
control of family) 

Heir: Silas Eirontalar (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: hunting, 
tracking, guiding 
Arms: field: light green 

dragon (claw, tail, jaws): gray 
flames (dragon's breath): red 

Family Name: ELTORCHUL (El-TOR-chul) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Thesp Eltorchul 
Consort: Arus Eltorchul 
Heir: Oth Eltorchul (eldest son, 
second child) 

Trade & Interests: mage 
schooling, magical research 
and the procuring of rare 
substances and items 
Arms: field: white 
wands: gold 
hat: black 











Eltorchul, Thesp: (NG hm W10) Lord Thesp Eltorchul 
is a former apprentice of Lord Hamiklar Wands, 
Maskar's father, and spent some of his younger life 
adventuring. Upon inheriting the family spice and 
import fortunes. Lord Thesp transferred the fortunes 
into the education of mages and providing for them. 
While the import business and its ships still operate, 
they are specifically focused on finding rare spices and 
magical components. The Eltorchul library is impres 
sive, and is exceeded only by Maskar Wands' and Khel- 
ben Arunsun's libraries in terms of rare magical 
information. Lord Thesp, his son Oth, and his daughter 
Fea are the master mages who teach any students who 
can afford to study under them (1,000 gp/year). 

Eltorchul, Errya: (CE hf F0; CHA 16) Errya is Lord 
Eltorchul's youngest child at age 27, and she is spoiled 
rotten. As her mother taught her, Errya expects everyone 
to answer to her every whim; if someone doesn't give her 
what she wants or doesn't praise her every action, she 
covertly holds a deep, abiding hatred against that person 
and will slowly devise a quiet, untraceable revenge for 
him or her. Her mother sees her for what she is, and 
applauds her for her ruthlessness; her doting father (like 
many others) is blissfully unaware of his daughter's viper 
like nature (he is intelligent enough to see, but his love 
for his children overcomes his intellect). 

Korelwyn, Brandon: (LE hm F0; WIS 15, CHA 18) 
Brandon claims he is an expatriate Halruaan noble, cast 
out due to his inability to cast magic (though no one has 
yet to check out this story, and at least Khelben and a 
few nobles are doubtful of this story . . . ). He has been 
Errya's constant companion for the past six months, and 
he gathers much of Errya's most useful information to 
use against her political enemies. 


Family Name: EMVEOLSTONE (Em-VEE-ohl-stone) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Lylar Emveolstone II 
(19-year-old lord) 

Consort: Dalene Emveolstone 
Heir: Alars Emveolstone (infant 
son); Challas Emveolstone 
(lord's brother, regent) 

Trade & Interests: ironmongery, 
curio trading 
Arms: field: white 
small shield: black 
sun: gold 




Family Name: ESTELMER (ESS-tel-mer) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Guidos Estelmer 
Consort: Dorma Estelmer 
Heir: Finn Estelmer (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: heraldry, 
sage-lore, printing 
Arms: field: white 

daggers: black (handles), 
silver (blades) 
gauntlet: green 
shelf: brown with black 
scrollwork 

book & skulls: white 
half-shield: gold 
quill pen: turquoise 










Patriarch: Elemos Gauntyl 
Consort: Thicia Gauntyl 
Heir: Vhaas Gauntyl (eldest son, 
CON 18, INT 17) 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, exploring, mining 
Arms: field: orange 
gauntlet: silver 
spikes of gauntlet: crimson 
slashes (three): crimson 



Family Name: GOST (GAWST) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Bhaedulph Gost 
(crippled, inactive) 

Consort: Aurora Gost 
Heir: Djarrus Gost (eldest 
son, active lord) 

Trade & Interests: caravan 
mastering, trading, 
armor-forging 
Arms: field: yellow 

snake: deep green (body), 
white with red pupil (eye) 



Family Name: GRALHUND 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Irg Gralhund ("Hund") 
Consort: Vajra Gralhund 
(Calimshan native) 

Heir: Tam Gralhund (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, weapon-making 
Arms: field: gold 

devil's face: orange (eyes), 
tawny (unshaded side), 
scarlet (shaded side) 



Family Name: GUNDWYND (GUND-wind) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Maurgosz Gundwynd 
Consort: None 
Heir: Jynnia Gundwynd 
(eldest child) 

Trade & Interests: the capture, 
training, and breeding of 
hippogriffs (and other 
aerial creatures, as steeds) 

Arms: field: white 

spiral winds: red (outer), 
orange (inner) 
sun: gold 



Gundwynd, Jynnia: (LG hf FO) Jynnia is a much- 
courted woman of nobility, but she rejects her suitors 
once she finds they are only attracted to her flame-red 
hair, beautiful features, and inheritance. She wishes to 
be respected for her intellect and an uncanny aptitude 
for spatial geometry. She is also a champion rider of hip 
pogriffs, griffons, and horses. 

Gundwynd, Maurgosz: (LG hm F3) In his youth, 
Maurgosz was a fighter who spent time in Undermoun 
tain (his tales of adventure are what led his son Myrnd 
to form the Deep Delvers). With his family fortunes 
dwindling, he has spent the past few years attempting to 
get the Lords and the guard to accept hippogrifs as aerial 
steeds for Waterdeep, claiming they are easier to handle 
than griffons (and less threat to horses). His arguments 
are not falling on deaf ears, but city policies are slow to 
change. 


Family Name: HAWKWINTER (HAWK-win-ter) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Eremoes 
Hawkwinter (F15) 

Consort: Kyrin Hawkwinter 
Heir: Genos Hawkwinter 
(eldest son, F12) 

Trade & Interests: soldiering; 

garrisons and guardianship 
Arms: field: royal blue 
star: silver 

arms & banners: black 



15 



Family Name: HELMFAST (HELM-fast) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Kelvar Helmfast 
("The Old Captain") 

Consort: Ranya Helmfast 
Heir: Edwind Helmfast (eldest 
son, F5, "The Young Captain") 

Trade & Interests: shipping, 
shipwrights 
Arms: field: purple 
moon: white 

waves: bands of black and purple 
foam: white 
hull: crimson 
sail: orange 

Family Name: HIILGAUNTLET (HEEL-gaunt-let) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Jhassin Hiilgauntlet 
Consort: Salu Hiilgauntlet 
Heir: Jhassin Hiilgauntlet II 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, military outfitting 
Arms: field: orange 
flames: scarlet 
chain: silver 


Family Name: HUNABAR (HOON-ah-bar) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Haskar Hunabar 
Consort: Amonra Hunabar 
Heir: Haskar Hunabar II 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: textiles 
trading, importing fashions 
Arms: field: orange 
star: white 
reins: bronze 


Family Name: HUSTEEM (Hus-TEEM) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Orbos Husteem 
Consort: Luna Husteem 
Heir: Boreas Husteem 
(fourth son) 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, land-owning 
Arms: field: tawny 

scimitar: white (blade), 
crimson (tip), gold (hilt) 
blood drops: crimson 
gauntlet: gray 






Family Name: HOTHEMER (HOTH-em-er) 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Malas Hothemer 
Consort: Citta Hothemer 
Heir: Chynna Hothemer 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: trading, 

owning fleets of caravan wagons 
Arms: field: green 

dragon: white (body), red 

(teeth and tongue), gold (eye) 



Family Name: ILITUL (ILL-ih-tul) 


Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Murgos llitul 
Consort: Zorene llitul 
Heir: Zak llitul (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: goat 
raising and herding, 
mercenary fighting 
Arms: field: orange 
spears: red 






16 



Family Name: ILVASTARR (ILL-vah-star) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ulguth Ilvastarr 
Consort: Mara Ilvastarr 
Heir: Gotom Ilvastarr (second son) 

Trade & Interests: beast-taming 
and breeding, cooking 
of exotic meats 
Arms: field: gold 

minidragon: metallic green 
(body), orange (eye) 


Family Name: JARDETH (JAR-deth) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ulb Jardeth 
Consort: Aliys Jardeth 
Heir: Koris Jardeth (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: soldiering; 

garrisons and guardianship 
Arms: field: gold 
tower: purple 
bird: black 

tower window, road and 
jagged opening in tower 
base: gold 




Family Name: ILZIMMER (ILL-zim-mer) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Boroldan Ilzimmer 
Consort: Xantha Ilzimmer 
Heir: Thanvas Ilzimmer 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: horse-breeding 
and racing, making and 
collecting maps, designing 
gowns and jewelry 
Arms: field: silver 
tears: crimson 


Family Name: IRLINGSTAR (URR-ling-star) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Hulraven Irlingstar 
Consort: Nael Irlingstar 
Heir: No direct heir; 

Khralver Irlingstar (cousin, 
living in Luskan) 

Trade & Interests: caravan 
running, shipbuilding 
Arms: field: silver 
sash: red 
star: white 


Family Name: JHANSCZIL (JAN-ss-zil) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Harkas Jhansczil 
Consort: Ariel Jhansczil 
Heir: Arrikes Jhansczil 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: trading, 
horsebreeding, mercenary 
fighting 

Arms: field: green 

weapons: silver (blades), 
black (hilts, pommels, 
and grips) 

Family Name: KORMAFFIS (KOR-mal-eece) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Helm Kormallis 
("The Torturer") 

Consort: None 
Heir: Harkas Kormallis 
(brother, Pall 1; see 
Chapter Four) 

Trade & Interests: recruiting, 
mercenary training, outfitting 
for travelers; former interests 
in slave trade 
Arms: field: yellow 
boot: brown 
flower: blue (blossom), green (leaves and stem) 












Patriarch: Alauos Kothont 
("Lord Goldbeard") 

Consort: Byllia Kothont 
Heir: Dragos Kothont (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: herd 
farming, fur-trapping 
Arms: field: sky blue 
spear: brown (shaft), 
silver (head) 
banner: green 
star: silver 



Family Name: MAERKLOS (MAY-er-close) 

Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Aldara Maerklos 
Consort: Bastiabas Maerklos 
Heir: Tehss Maerklos 
(eldest daughter, W7) 

Trade & Interests: swine-herding, 
beer-brewing, seer (predictions) 

Arms: field: deep green 
(lower), pink (upper) 
eyes: white 
lashes: black 
mouth: red 

border between fields, and lines in lower field: thin black 



Family Name: LANNGOLYN 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Tresh Lanngolyn 
Consort: Ormaes Lanngolyn 
("Seamaster") 

Heir: Tryssia Lanngolyn 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: textiles, 
shipping 

Arms: field: purple 
shell: pink 
sea-worm: green 


(LANN-go-linn) 



Family Name: MAERNOS (MAY-er-noz) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ultas Maernos 
(" Raiser-of-Priests") 

Consort: None 
Heir: None; see below 
Trade & Interests: moneylending, 
banking, financial 
administration of temples 
Arms: field: royal blue 
spearpoints: silver 
folded hands: pink flesh 
sleeves: green 



Family Name: FATHKUFE (LATH-kyool) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Nimor Lathkule 
Consort: Larin Lathkule 
Heir: Jacinth Lathkule 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: jewelry, 
gem mining and prospecting, 
gemcutting 
Arms: field: white 
arm: pink flesh 
gem: glistening green 



Maernos, Ultas: (LG hm F9) While few remember it. 
Lord Ultas was a mercenary in his youth and he com 
mitted a number of atrocities against some southern vil 
lages in the quest to bolster his family's finances. Lord 
Ultas later abandoned that life for his waiting lordship 
in Waterdeep, but he spent years plagued by waking 
guilt and nightmares about his past actions. 

After the untimely deaths of his wife and children in 
the Year of the Saddle (1345 DR/313 NR) due to a 
plague in Amn, Lord Ultas became a recluse, seeing few 
beyond his servants for four years. Only the administra 
tions and attention of Naneatha Suaril, the High Priest 
ess of Selune, brought him out of his grief. With her 
friendship, Ultas found forgiveness in religion, and soon 
became a generous patron and devout follower for many 
of the city's temples (though his heart truly belongs to 
Selune). 


18 







Lord Ultas Maernos, while no longer a recluse, has 
resisted all attempts to remarry and restart his family 
line. With no viable, surviving heirs, he was called to 
the Lord's Court to determine who shall inherit his 
lands and resources upon his passing. Though his 
request sent the Magisters and the attending Lords into 
a rare closed-door debate, he was allowed to bequeath 
his fortunes to the Lords upon his passing on the condi 
tion that the money be equally divided among the 10 
major temples and the Plinth. In addition, his family 
villa would be converted into a general place of safe- 
haven and worship for the nonhuman peoples of Water- 
deep, not unlike the Plinth. Ultas has started this 
conversion within his lifetime, buying elven statuary 
and dwarven carvings and halfling paintings suitable for 
a place of worship. 


Family Name: MAJARRA (Mah-JAR-ra) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Kelthul Majarra 
(inactive) 

Consort: Regan Majarra 
Heir: Kehlann and Axor 
Majarra (elder sons, active 
lords in family business) 

Trade & Interests: harping and 
harp-training, instrument 
making, silver mining (Mirabar) 

Arms: field: deep green 
bars: white 

harp: brown (body), white (area of strings), silver (strings) 
curtain: orange (fabric, in top comer), crimson (border) 



Majarra, Axor: (LN hm F0) Axor, the elder brother 
who now shares the Majarra lordship, lives in Mirabar 
with his wife and two small children. For the past seven 
years, he has managed the family holdings in some silver 
mines around Mirabar, as well as minor land holdings by 
the Ice Lakes. Though he trusts his brother Kehlann to 
adequately manage the other affairs of the family, his 
jealous wife Larin warns him not to let his father and 
brother (a former wastrel and minor musician) waste 
away "the family legacy and what is rightfully ours!" 


Majarra, Kelthul: (NG hm F0) The patriarch of the 
Majarra clan, upon hearing of the restoration of the bards' 
college, threw his full financial support behind Danilo 
Thann to make it a reality. Many gossiped over his rea 
sons, and talk increased when he turned his other busi 
nesses over to his two elder sons. Lord Majarra now 
manages New Olamn as its president. When others com 
ment on this "wasteful spending," Kelthul only replies, "I 
do not think that keeping the beautiful music and history 
of our beloved Realms alive is a waste at all. If we cannot 
preserve the lore of our land in song and script, we shall be 
even less of a memory than the Fallen Kingdom." 

Majarra, Rhiist: (CG hm B2) The young red-headed 
eight-year-old Rhiist is his grandfather's pride and joy. In 
addition, the boy is a musical prodigy and can play a 
harp with skill that exceeds many human bards of 
Waterdeep (priests and followers of Milil refer to the 
boy as "favored by our Lord of Songs"). He also writes 
songs with an ease that frightens some, including a num 
ber of ballads that are testing the more established bards 
of the Realms; only Mintiper Moonsilver and Storm 
Silverhand have mastered the astonishingly complex 
closing melody of "Rhyester's Eyes," Rhiist's latest bal 
lad, which was written to commemorate Rhyester, the 
prophet of Lathander. 



19 








Family Name: MANTHAR (MAN-thar) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ithnil Manthar 
Consort: Churyl Manthar 
Heir: Carn Manthar (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, trading in metals & 
perfumes 

Arms: field: royal blue 
band: silver 

swordtip: silver (blade), 
red (bloodied tip) 



Family Name: MELSHIMBER (Mel-SHIM-bur) 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Hlanta Melshimber 
Consort: None 
Heir: Khallos Melshimber 
(eldest son, third child) 

Trade & Interests: sage-lore 
(history & genealogy), research 
and information-gathering, 
fine wines 
Arms: field: silver 

border (representing edge 
of helm): royal blue 
eye: white with green pupil 



Family Name: MARGASTER (MAR-gast-er) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Thentias Margaster 
("Lord of Lords") 

Consort: Naryel Margaster 
Heir: Arilestar Margaster 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: trading, 
shipping 

Arms: field: gold 
claw: white 
talons: scarlet 
feathers: brown 



Family Name: MAS SAL AN (MASS-uh-lann) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: lliaru Massalan 
Consort: None 
Heir: Phorol Massalan 
(eldest nephew) 

Trade & Interests: Jewelry 
Arms: field: red 
border: gold 
stars: white 



Melshimber, Hlanta: (NE hf Wll; INT and CHA 19) 
Considered one of the most dangerous social foes among 
the noble circles. Lady Hlanta Melshimber is a well- 
known woman whose ability to wield magic is far 
exceeded by her skills in manipulation and information 
gathering. Few ask her about her business, as that gives 
her an excuse to pry into theirs, so she often conducts 
clandestine business at her villa without interruption. 

Every month, she has agents seeding the taverns, 
inns, and noble parties with carefully-planned rumors 
and stories about what she is up to, and waiting to see 
who takes the bait. One of her oldest and most-believed 
rumors involves her knowing how to brew a number of 
insidious poisons; the would-be assassins who sought her 
aid have often been "uncovered by the watch" soon 
after consulting her. 

Currently, she toys with the affections of Duhlark Kolat 
the Transmuter; she arranged the Midsummer theft of a 
number of secrets from his tower. She has sold a number 
of his rare items, and she is also the source of many 
unique spells being sold to certain mages (through third 
and fourth parties, of course), once she masters them. 

Melshimber, Cynndria: (LG hf Bl) Lady Hlanta's 
young niece from Scornubel has recently enrolled at New 
Olamn to continue to learn bardcraft. She hasn't quite 
seen past the thin veneer of propriety woven by her aunt 
and cousin, but she is currently watching their every 
move. Familial loyalty stays her hand from actively stop 
ping any of their machinations, but Cynndria trusts and 
confides in her tutor, Jhandess Millomyr, covertly won 
dering about certain strange goings-on between Khallos 
and some of his students. 


20 







Melshimber, Khallos: (LE hm F3; WIS 16) A sec 
ondary instructor of history, Khallos' expertise is in 
teaching the many young bards and students about 
research, information gathering, and the keeping and 
disguising of secrets within writing and song (i.e. how to 
disguise facts). As his mother's heir, he has her penchant 
for manipulation, and has cultivated the trust and loy 
alty of a number of students that he and Lady Hlanta 
hope to use as their eyes and ears around the Realms. 


Family Name: MOONSTAR (MOON-star) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Helve Moonstar 
Consort: Wylynd Moonstar 
Heir: Rober Moonstar 
(eldest nephew) 

Trade & Interests: guiding, 
cartography, exploration, 
and caravan-mastering 
Arms: field: royal blue 
moon and stars: silver 



Patriarch: Laskar Nesher 
Consort: Stelar Nesher 
Heir: Kastonoph Nesher 
(eldest son, "Noph") 

Trade & Interests: hawking, 
lumbering, wood-making 
Arms: field: green 
hawk-bell: white 



Family Name: PHULL (FULL) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ulmassus Phull 
("The Fisherlord") 

Consort: Carina Phull 
Heir: Aidan Phull (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: fishing 
Arms: field: green 

fish: silver (body), yellow (eye) 



Family Name: NANDAR (Nan-DAR) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Baelrun Nandar 
Consort: Berlie Nandar 
Heir: Chostal Nandar 
(grand-nephew) 

Trade & Interests: housebuilding, 
bridgebuilding 
Arms: field: sky blue 
bridge: gray 
star: silver 

spear: black (shaft), silver 
(head), royal blue (banner) 


Family Name: PHYLUND (FEYE-lund) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Urtos Phylund II 
Consort: Lythis Phylund 
Heir: Urtos Phylund III (young 
son of Aridarye, stepbrother 
of lord) 

Trade & Interests: the training, 
procuring, and breeding of 
fearsome monsters (will buy 
from adventurers) 

Arms: field: orange 
horn: yellow-green 
eyes: glittering green 
mouth: red (maw), white (fangs) 







21 





Phylund, Aridarye: (NE hf FO; INT 17, CHA 16) This 
coldly beautiful, young woman is the widow of the former 
Lord Phylund, stepmother to the current lord, and mother 
to the last begotten heir of Lord Urtos the First. After 
arranging the death of her husband, Aridarye planned to 
take over the Phylund fortunes, but this plan was foiled by 
the return of the estranged heir, Urtos the Second. 
Though he currently rules the family fortunes, Aridarye's 
patience is long, and she raises her three-year-old son to be 
the next lord of the manor. This doesn't stop her from 
having a number of clandestine consorts and friends to 
help her gain her wishes that much sooner. . . . 

Phylund, Lythis: (NG hf FO; WIS 18) As the sole heir 
of the Mhairuuns, Lythis had much traffic with the Phy- 
lunds on the sale and training of watchspiders, her family's 
guarded trade secret. From afar, she loved Urtos from their 
first meeting, though it took him 11 long years before he 
confessed the same feelings (his long absence from the city 
was tinged with rumors of scandal and his falsely reported 
death). Two weeks before their wedding, she discovered 
her fiance's recently-incurred curse of lycanthropy when 
she followed him to his hunting villa. While shocked, she 
accepted him and vowed her secrecy. She assumes this 
"taint" is the reason the Lords decreed the infant Tarnos 
was an unfit heir (see "Gossip &a Goings-On"). Lythis 
shows admirable aplomb and dignity in her role as Lady 
Phylund. She cooly tolerates the presence of Lady 
Aridarye in the villa, though she has secured a secret dis 
pensation from the Lord's Court, which allows the 
Mhairuun holdings (watchspider breeding and training 
and all profits) to only be inherited by her sons. 

Phylund, Urtos II: (LN hm F10; STR 16, CON 15) 
No longer the loud, brash nobleman of his youth, Lord 
Urtos Phylund is now a quietly confident man who is per 
ceived by outsiders as cold; in fact, he is intensely loyal 
and protective of his family (his wife and son, that is, not 
his stepmother and stepbrother). Nearly slain in a wolf 
pack attack (secretly set up by Aridarye), Urtos was 
infected with lycanthropy. Only his wife and Kharkos, the 
family butler at his hunting lodge, know his secret, and he 
is careful to be missing from Waterdeep during the full 
moon each month. While angered with the Lords for bar 
ring his son from his inheritance, he places the blame for 
this insult on his conniving stepmother Aridarye. While 
he has yet to pin down evidence against her, Urtos still 
searches for proof that she is behind the misfortunes of the 
family (including the death of the elder Lord Phylund, not 
to mention her three previous husbands!). 


Family Name: PIIRADOST (PEER-ah-dohst) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Humbraz Piiradost III 
Consort: Kymiko Piiradost 

(fourth wife; native of Kozakura) 

Heir: Humbraz Piiradost IV 
(second son) 

Trade & Interests: horse- 
breeding, cattle raising 
Arms: field: red 
portcullis: gray 
chain & collar: gray 
skull: white and black 


Piiradost, Humbraz IV: (CN hm F2; STR 18(43)) 
Humbraz is the irresponsible, laggard heir of Lord Hum 
braz Piiradost whose looks and charm get him into 
almost as much trouble as his braggadocio and spend 
thrift nature do. Tall, muscular, and blessed with (as 
many women of Waterdeep attest) "deep blue eyes to 
get lost in," he is also well-trained in unarmed combat 
and swordplay. He spends more time gambling and 
carousing in the environs of Castle and Dock Wards 
than at his father's side learning the family business. 
Humbraz only wants the money and power of his father's 
title, and none of the responsibility; after all, his elder 
brother had some responsibility, and all he saw from it 
was lifelong exile from the city. 


Family Name: RAVENTREE (RAY-ven-tree) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Nandos Raventree 
Consort: Perryn Raventree 
Heir: Surakh Raventree 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: rare-foods 
purveying, shipbuilding 
Arms: field: orange 
water: green 
tree: black 

raven: black (body), red (eye) 
sails: white 
hull: brown 




22 







Family Name: ROARINGFIORN (ROR-ing-horn) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Vastarr & Kuldos 
Roaringhorn (twin brothers 
with shared title and position) 

Consort: None 
Heir: Holver Roaringhorn 
(third brother) 

Trade & Interests: horse- raising, 
mercenary-fighting 
Arms: field: green 

horn: gold (body), white 
(blast of sound) 
star: white 



Family Name: ROSZNAR (ROZZ-nar) 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Estrip Rosznar 
Consort: None 
Heir: None 

Trade & Interests: land-owning, 
winemaking 
Arms: field: royal blue 
falcon: white 



Rosznar, Estrip: (LG hf FO) It amazes many that Lady 
Estrip manages to solely hold power over one of Water- 
deep's richest fortunes with no immediate consort or 
heir. Decades ago, her father disowned his brothers and 
their families (many located in Amn) from the family 
due to their holdings and money in the slave trade; Lady 
Estrip has no contact with them, and no Rosznar is 
admitted to Waterdeep without the guard immediately 
notifying Lady Estrip. While some individuals mean it as 
an insult, Lady Estrip is often likened to her "truth 
telling, ne'er-do-wrong, staid law-abider of a father." 

"The Young Masked Lady" is a title Lady Estrip 
earned with her love of masked dance costumes, which 
she wears at all galas. She also bears a remarkable resem 
blance to Lhestyn Arunsun, the first "Masked Lady" of 
Waterdeep. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun denies any 
familial ties with her, but confidentially mutters that 
"Lady Estrip, like my sister Cassandra and her brood, is 
among the few nobles with as much sense as coin." 


Family Name: RULDEGOST (RULL-dee-gost) 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Kara Ruldegost 
Consort: None 

Heir: Detan Ruldegost (eldest son, 
infant); Bly Ruldegost (lady's 
brother, regent) 

Trade & Interests: banking, 
mercenary fighting, 
bounty-hunting, caravan 
mastering 

Arms: field: sky blue 
flames: scarlet 
armor: silver 

face: black (no features shown) 
blood: crimson (three rivulets, from open helm) 



Family Name: SILMERHELVE (SIL-mur-helv) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Laerlos Silmerhelve 
Consort: Tannyth Silmerhelve 
Heir: Tarkas Silmerhelve 
(second nephew) 

Trade & Interests: guardianship, 
warrior-training, pandering 
Arms: field: green 
borders: silver 
torso: pink flesh 
lance: brown 

helm, sword, and shield (note borders on shield): gold 



Family Name: SNOME (SNOWM) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Arrabas Snome 
Consort: Lynda Snome 
Heir: Thyrielentha Snome 
(eldest granddaughter) 

Trade & Interests: brewing, 
distilling, beer and liquor 
importing 
Arms: field: scarlet 
goblet: gold 
spilling wine: purple 





23 





Snome, Arrabas: (NG hm FO) This voluminous man 
of 112 winters claims to have drunk every type of dis 
tilled liquor created in the Realms, and his girth seems 
ample testament of this. Thanks to some magical 
potions and treatments, he has outlived all of his 14 
children, finding all of them to be wastrels and ill-fit to 
inherit his fortunes. He now hopes to choose a proper 
heir among his 47 grandchildren, and Dandobar, the 
youngest at age 21, is the likely candidate now. Arrabas 
loves his family, especially Thyri and Dandobar, but he 
is extremely pragmatic and stubborn about how he 
wants his businesses run. 

Snome, Thyriellentha: (LG hf W13) Known as 
"Thyri" to her friends, the young heir to the Snome 
fortunes is a capable, friendly, and powerful woman, 
but she is also petty and grasping, seeking power in a 
number of legal ways (all of them within her reasoning 
of "I am the only person who understands how this can 
be used to its best purpose."). A few years ago, she was 
nominated to the new post of Mage Civilar, comman 
der of the watch-wizard corps, by Mhair Szeltune of the 
Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors, This move 
was done strictly for political reasons: Thyri was 
pulling support away from Mhair among the Watchful 
Order's members, and the new position would appease 
the nobles, who thought putting wizards in the watch 
would overbalance their power. Thyri enjoys her posi 
tion within the watch, but has taken to demanding 
much of her juniors, who chafe under her strict stan 
dards. She feels hurt that her grandfather is consider 
ing Dandobar as his heir, and takes it as a personal 
failing; as a result, she is working herself (and those 
under her) twice as hard in efforts to prove her worth 
to herself and her family. 

Snome, Dandobar: (LN hm FO) After a year-long, 
extensive tour of Calimshan and the lands east of it, 
Dandobar Snome, the youngest descendant of Lord 
Arrabas, returned to Waterdeep with alliances and 
information that nearly double the family's liquor distri 
bution base and expand their distilling business. This 
has endeared him to the elderly lord, who now is consid 
ering a change in heirs to young Dandobar, a move that 
Dandobar did not consciously seek or expect (but will 
not refuse). 


Patriarch: Mintos Stormweather 
(recently deceased) 

Consort: Lara Stormweather 
Heir: Under dispute (see "Gossip 
& Goings-On") 

Trade & Interests: shipping, 
naval exploration 
Arms: field: sky blue 
waves: green 

foam at top of wave: white 
moon: white 


Family Name: STORMWEATHER 
(STORM-weth-er) 

Prominent Members: 



Family Name: SULTLUE (SULT-loo) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Asbrior Sultlue 
("The Serpent") 

Consort: Pera Sultlue (third wife) 

Heir: Asbrior Sultlue II (eldest 
son, "The Asp") 

Trade & Interests: mercenary 
fighting, horse-breeding 
and trading 
Arms: field: royal blue 

serpent: light green (body), 

yellow (eyes, fangs), red (mouth) 



Family Name: TALMOST (TALL-most) 
Prominent Members: 

Matriarch: Hyara Talmost 
Consort: Pallin Talmost 
Heir: Hyara Talmost II 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: textiles, 
fashion clothing, furs 
Arms: field: sky blue 
castle: gray 
torch: gold 
flame: orange 





24 




Talmost, Hyara: (NE hf FO) This older, regal woman is 
a noble fashion designer and exporter well known about 
the city for her iron-handed control and her temper. Her 
tall, statuesque beauty was without compare forty years 
ago, and that -plus her being the sole heir to Lord Ker- 
rick Talmost's shipping fortunes - made her the most 
sought-after bride on the Sword Coast. With her Lord- 
Consort and three children, she is the matriarch of one 
of the more powerful and older fortunes in the city. She 
believes, wrongly, that people do not believe her to be as 
effective as she once was; in response to some rumors 
about her business (which cost her dearly). Lady Hyara 
has been orchestrating some rumors against her appar 
ent foe. Lady Hlanta Melshimber, by dredging up some 
of Lady Melshimber's youthful faux pas. 

Talmost, Pallin: (LN hm FO) Lord-Consort Pallin 
Talmost abdicated his minor holdings in Cormyr to 
marry the woman whom he believed was a talented, lov 
ing soul and someone he wished to spend eternity in her 
company. As the years wore on, Lady Hyara became 
more and more dissatisfied, obsessed with her fortunes, 
her social position, and her looks, rather than focused 
on her successful life and the happiness it did contain. 
Steadfast Pallin still stands by and supports his wife, but 
she is not the woman he married; he knows about, but 
says nothing of, her philandering, and drowns his 
remorse in drink at local taverns. 


Family Name: TARM (TARM) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Thentivil Tarm 
Consort: Selpara Tarm 
Heir: Arum Tarm (eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: caravan 
mastering, horse-breeding 
and training 
Arms: field: red 
band: white 

bugle, candle-lamp, and 
whip (including thong, 
flame): gold 

DM's Note: Arum Tarm is a prominent character within the 
lives and adventures of a number of NPCs in Adventurers' 
Quarter, the PCs' campaign base (see Adventurer's Guide to 
the City and Secrets of the City for more information). 


Family Name: TCHAZZAM (T'CHAZ-um) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Ulboth Tchazzam 
Consort: None 
Heir: Carina Tchazzam (lord's 
sister) 

Trade & Interests: archery, 
hunting, bowyers and fletchers 
Arms: field: royal blue 
moon: white 

fanciful arrow (including 
speed-streaks): silver 

Family Name: TESPER (TESS-pur) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Armult Tesper 
Consort: Nleera Tarannath 
(fiancee) 

Heir: Charrin Tesper (lord's niece) 

Trade & Interests: guardianship, 
skill-at-arms 
Arms: field: royal blue 
bands (two): red 
will o wisps: white 


Tarannath, Nleera: (CG hf W12; DEX & INT 18, 
CHA 16) After seven years of posing as the ghostly Sil- 
para Tesper and using that cover to act as a Harper con 
tact, Nleera was discovered at the close of a party at 
Tespergates by Lord Tesper (Silpara chose an inoppor 
tune moment to appear near her, smiling). The rather 
morose lord took a liking to her and her methods of 
party-crashing; rather than eject her from the premises, 
Armult got to know her, soon guessed her position with 
the Harpers, and allowed her to remain as his guest, 
continuing on with the same charade ("After all, so 
effective a disguise should not be discarded if only one's 
allies know of it."). After a year of this situation, Armult 
proposed and Nleera accepted. She still plans on contin 
uing her work with the Harpers, but she now has the 
additional advantage of being expected at the villa as 
the lady of the manor. 







25 






Tesper, Armult: (LG hm F3; WIS 7) An overly trust 
ing soul, Lord Armult Tesper has married twice in the 
past six years, and each wife has only sought his money. 
Armult never realized this until after they left him, tak 
ing sums of money with them and leaving him broken 
hearted. What he doesn't realize (and his servants and 
others don't believe) is that his ancestral ghosts have 
shielded him from his wives' infidelities and scared them 
into leaving. The ghostly sisters also revealed the exis 
tence of Nleera Tarannath to his lordship, sparking the 
first honest, loving relationship of the young lord's life. 

Despite his father's protests, Armult spent a good 
decade of his youth adventuring in the wilderness east 
and south of Waterdeep; pleased that this did not lead 
him to an early grave, the elder Lord Tesper was 
impressed that his son learned much of the Realms and 
gained a greater understanding and appreciation of the 
family business (more than he ever would have gained 
in the city). Of course, this was balanced by a number of 
youthful excesses that brought some embarrassment to 
the family. Now, his brash youth behind him, Lord 
Armult's only remaining vice from his adventuring days 
is his love of unarmed combat and wrestling. He enjoys 
making wrestling and boxing matches the highlight of 
his parties, and challenges many adventurers to fights for 
the sheer excitement of it. 

Tesper, Silpara & Yulhymbra: (LG hf W2 each) The 
two ghost sisters of Tespergates still haunt its stately 
halls, watching over the current family. While many 
believe them to be simple phantoms with no substance 
or effect, they are intelligent, caring entities who still 
can affect the lives of those around them. As they 
enjoyed her company and her news of the world outside 
the city, Silpara and Yulhymbra allowed Nleera Taran 
nath to impersonate Silpara in order to rendezvous with 
Harper agents in the city. They also surreptitiously 
watched over the young Lord Armult and his wives; 
angered that the loving young lord was betrayed by his 
wives, the two sisters used illusions and their ghostly 
abilities to scare the unfaithful women away (though the 
women swear this is what happened, no one has ever 
heard of the ghosts doing anything other than silently 
wandering the upper hallways and ramparts of the villa, 
so none believe them). Now, they often appear to smile, 
since their maneuvers brought Nleera and their young 
descendant together and Tespergates is finally a happy 
(though quite haunted) home again. 



Family Name: THANN (THANN) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Rhammas Thann 
Consort: Cassandra Thann 
Heir: Dartek Thann (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: land-owning, 
merchant shipping, fine wines; 
former interests in slave trade 
Arms: field: green 

horse: white (body), brown (eye) 
crow: black (body), yellow (eye) 



Thann, Cassandra: (NG hf FO) Cassandra was born a 
year before her father Zelphar Arunsun left Neverwin- 
ter, her mother dying in childbirth. They came to 
Waterdeep, where Zelphar married Lhestyn, and Cas 
sandra grew up among the privileged of Waterdeep. She 
doted on her little brother Khelben, but a rift grew 
between them as he learned magic from their parents, a 
gift she never learned. 




26 







Losing herself in her father's library, Cassandra 
became quite the intellectual, and can still hold argu 
ments with the best minds in Waterdeep. Cassandra 
became Lady Thann on her 22nd birthday, but her joy 
was marred by the subsequent murder of her father and 
the disappearance of Khelben. Three years later, upon 
her mother's death, Cassandra broke ties with the Arun- 
sun clan, "as the name has only death tied to its unfath 
omable power." 

The return of Khelben to Waterdeep after a decade- 
long absence gladdened Cassandra, and she had her family 
to share with him, having delivered four children. Cassan 
dra keeps in touch with her brother (though he sometimes 
seems the elder, and she attributes that to his magical 
knowledge), but she is more comfortable in her world as 
the strong matron of the Thanns with her nine children 
(six sons, three daughters) and 12 grandchildren. 

Thann, Danilo: As far as his family knows, Danilo 
was a laggard for years until he became a bard. Now, 
Danilo is well respected and his parents are proud of his 
success with New Olamn, the bards' college. (See Chap 
ter Five of the Campaign Guide to the City for more info 
on Danilo.) 

Thann, Rhammas: (LN hm FO) Though his forebears 
built the family fortune on the slave trade. Lord Erktos 
Thann, and later his son Rhammas, changed the ancestral 
business to land owning and shipping, altering plantations 
and slave ships to general land holdings and merchant 
ships. Lord Rhammas Thann has ruled his clan for 46 
years with the indomitable Cassandra at his side. While he 
used to argue with her on how to run the business, he 
acceded to her better trade acumen and never regretted it. 
The Thann lordship is one of equal power shared between 
Lord Thann and his lady; Lord Thann hopes to abdicate 
to their eldest son (though he believes his wife will perish 
before she will let others see to the family affairs). 


Family Name: THONGOL1R (THONG-oh-leer) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Bilaerus Thongolir II 
Consort: Eva Thongolir 
Heir: Dolerphus Thongolir IV 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: calligraphy, 
limning, printing 
Arms: field: royal blue 
scrolled border: silver 



Family Name: THORP (THORP) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: None; holdings 
administered by council of 
three lords-regent (Lady Stelar 
Nesher, niece; Hulameros 
Rhond, 3rd cousin; and Khorom 
Thorp, father of Stelar and 
disowned brother) 

Consort: None 
Heir: Hulmara Thorp (eldest 
daughter, child) 

Trade & Interests: caravan-mastering, mercenary fighting 
Arms: field: gold 
mace: gray 



Family Name: THUNDERSTAFF (THUN-der-staf) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Baerom Thunderstaff II 
Consort: Marie Thunderstaff 
Heir: No direct heir; Arsten 
Thunderstaff II (grandnephew) 

Trade & Interests: magecraft, 
mercenary fighting, caravan 
mastering 
Arms: field: red 

weapons: silver (blades), 
black (shafts) 



Family Name: ULBRINTER (UL-BRIN-ter) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Nomus Ulbrinter 
Consort: Karya Ulbrinter 
Heir: Patrisa Ulbrinter 
(eldest daughter) 

Trade & Interests: shipping, 
shipwrights 
Arms: field: white 
waves: green 
hull: brown 

sail: light blue (with red 
heart blazon) 
masthead banner: red 
ships lines, catwalks, shrouds, mast: black 



27 




Family Name: URMBRUSK (URM-brusk) 

Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Halam Urmbrusk 
Consort: Anja Urmbrusk 
Heir: Chimak Urmbrusk 
(eldest son) 

Trade & Interests: land-owning, 
moneylending 
Arms: field: green 

sword: blue (blade), gold (hilt, 
pommel), black (grip) 
blood: crimson 

monster: brown (body), white (fangs), purple (mouth) 



Family Name: WANDS (WANDS) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Maskar Wands 
Consort: Hyacia Wands 
Heir: Olanhar Wands (eldest 
daughter) 

Trade & Interests: mage 
schooling, magical research 
and adventuring, dweomercraft- 
for- hire 

Arms: field: purple 

manche (sleeve): black 
stars: gold 



Ampratines: (CC male djinni) Ampratines is the djinni 
servant of Tertius Wands, thanks to the magical ring of 
djinni summoning that the young noble wears. "Ampi," as 
Tertius refers to him, is a loyal servant devoted to his 
simple master, and he consistently steers him away from 
serious dangers. Ampratines has consistently warned 
Tertius to stay away from Silavene's festhall, as he senses 
that the owner is far more dangerous than many believe 
(especially to djinn). 

Wands, Ellidis: (NG hem W2/T3) Ellidis Wands 
left the apprenticeship of his Uncle Maskar to lead a 
life of adventure outside Waterdeep. Thanks to some 
covert teaching by Essimuth Lanys, Ellidis is also an 
excellent spy and sneak-thief (never using his skills to 
steal from anyone in the city). Ellidis is making a name 
for himself as a rogue in Calimshan under the alias 
"Shadowink" (after his tendency to slip into the shad 
ows and teleport away). 


Wands, Marcus: (CN(G) hm B6; DEX 16, CHA 17) 
Contrary to the wishes of his grandfather Maskar, Marcus 
has taken to the "life of the dashing outlaw" (in truth, he 
is a poor thief and rogue, but not a bad storyteller). Cur 
rently under the alias Marco Volo, Marcus has been busy 
staying one step ahead of the Waterdeep watch (and vari 
ous persons, such as the wizard Sabbas) and has left the 
city for an extended trip down the Sword Coast. 

Wands, Maskar: (LN hm W23; INT 18, WIS 16) 
Said by some to be the most powerful independent wiz 
ard in Waterdeep, Lord Maskar Wands is a rarely seen 
but powerful presence in the city. He keeps to his twin- 
towered villa home much of the time, and is usually 
silent in public, although his manners and gestures are 
gracious. He has a collection of magical items, including 
a staff of the magi, a carpet of flying, the Moonpenguin of 
Boof, and many other magic items and artifacts (DM's 
choice); the artifacts are of little use to him, but he has 
them "for safe-keeping" (i.e. no one can abuse the power 
of the artifacts if he keeps them himself). 

Lord Maskar Wands' greatest tenet is his disapproval of 
the abuse and wasteful, unrestrained exercise of magic. He 
often directs adventurers to give up the use of all magic if 
they cannot govern their use of it better, or donate it 
forthwith to any temple of Mystra. Lord Wands has also 
reprimanded a number of watch-wizards for the same 
abuses, and he has even gone so far as to publicly warn the 
archmage of the city, Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, about 
certain excessive uses of magic. While among the most 
powerful wizards of the city. Lord Maskar is undoubtedly 
the most conservative and traditional of all. 

Lord Maskar and his daughter and heir Olanhar will 
train lesser mages, but payment for such services will 
always be in the form of a difficult task or quest, such as 
restoring lost or stolen scrolls to a particular mage's 
tomb, or destroying a lich, or bringing them rare mater 
ial components from across Faerun. Given these stric 
tures and his conservatism, Lord Maskar is rarely sought 
as a tutor. 

Wands, Olanhar: (LG hf W14) Olanhar is the heir of 
the Wands clan, a tall, regal woman with long raven 
tresses and her father's distinctive facial features. Olanhar 
is married to one of her students, Challat Artoban (CG 
hm W5), a match her father approves of most heartily. 
Olanhar is a great influence within the Watchful Order of 
Magists & Protectors, one whose support her friend Mhair 
Szeltune counts on in many of the political games played 
among the wizards. Olanhar also has a ring which allows 
her to use knock on any door it touches. 


28 








Wands, Scirkhel: (CG hm R6) Scirkhel was reared 
in Waterdeep but left at age 17 to see the world. 
Scirkhel fell in with a ranger (and Herald) and learned 
of woodcraft and the Harpers and the Heralds. After 
years of working for them, Scirkhel was admitted into 
the Heralds and charged with replacing the aged Herald 
of Waterdeep. Returning to the city of his birth, 
Scirkhel quietly assumed the duties at Falconfree. He 
lives in a residence close to the River Gate (City Map 
Location T41) to allow easy contact with Herald agents 
just entering the city. 

Wands, Tertius: (LG hm FO) Grandnephew to old 
Maskar, Tertius is a rare Wands relative with no aptitude 
for magic. This does not stop him from adventuring; for 
ten years, Tertius has bungled about the city, seeking 
excitement (and surviving only through the virtues of 
his allies and his friend, Ampratines the djinni). Mirt 
the Moneylender describes Tertius as "a young man with 
the learning curve of a zombie, but he has a good heart 
and some brief flashes of intuitive strategy." 

Family Name: WAVESILVER (WAVE-sil-ver) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Bleskos Wavesilver 
Consort: Apryl Wavesilver 
Heir: Aristed Wavesilver 
(second son) 

Trade & Interests: merchant 
shipping 

Arms: field: red (sky) 
waves: royal blue 
spray: silver (one curl at 

bottom, curl and drop at top) 



Family Name: ZULPAIR (ZUL-pair) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Olomar Zulpair 
Consort: Anyla Zulpair 
Heir: Gerath Zulpair (eldest son) 
Trade & Interests: merchant 
shipping 

Arms: field: purple 
prow: gold 
star: silver 
spray: white 
waves: navy blue 



Family Name: ZUN (ZUNN) 
Prominent Members: 

Patriarch: Lungar Zun II 
Consort: Triine Zun 
Heir: Olsztel Zun 

Trade & Interests: cattle-farming, 
mercenary fighting 
Arms: field: brown 

sting & claw: metallic green 
sparkles: silver 



crescent moons (one a 

distorted reflection): silver 
water: navy blue 
horizon: purple 
nine stars: silver 


The Arms of the City of Waterdeep 

field: royal blue (sky) 
border: silver 



The Arms of the Lords of Waterdeep 

field: white 
border: silver 
torch: metallic blue 
flame: silver 





29 




Gossip & Go)fogs-Ob3 

T he following incidents and actions are just the barest 
hint of the many activities occurring in and about the 
lives of Waterdeep's nobility. Some are straight forward 
accounts of noble activity; these are best presented as tav 
ern talk and rumors. Others are hints of noble plots and 
social battling; these need to be approached methodically 
and carefully. The Dungeon Master should take care to 
cloak these plots in secrecy; most of the nobles plan and 
connive all their activities intricately, each plan covered by 
secondary and tertiary plans. If one part of the plot is 
uncovered, it only hinders that part, and it cannot be 
traced back to the noble who initiated the plan without 
some serious plotting on the PCs' part. 

Any "Gossip & Goings-On" material occurs during the 
year 335 NR (1367 DR), the year just ending on the 
Realms' timeline. The events are listed in no particular 
order, and can be used at the DM's discretion. 

• Lord Kuldos Roaringhorn is barred from the Twilight 
Hunters tavern, due to the destruction caused during a 
brawl with Gast Brokengulf. Apparently, the fracas 
began when Gast asked Lord Kuldos about some 
rumored impropriety (regarding a young village girl on 
the outskirts of Waterdeep), and Kuldos responded to 
the verbal spar with fists. When the watch arrived, the 
two nobles were being blown out of the tavern by a gust 
of wind cast by Song the wizardess, one of the owners. 

• After Trolltide and its unfortunate incidents (see "Troll- 
tidings" in Chapter Six of the Adventurer's Guide and 
Chapter Two of the Secrets book), the Hothemer clan is 
in deep mourning for the loss of two heirs. While under 
the influence of fell magics, little eight-year-old Citta 
Hothemer turned into a troll and killed her two elder 
brothers (Hathin, the heir, and Robin, the second 
brother in line for the lordship) before Lord Maskar 
Wands ended the enchantment and cured her. 

• A young man arrived in the city recently, his face slightly 
scarred and pockmarked from a childhood disease. His 
caravan hails from a city in southern Amn, and people are 
talking of how much he resembles Lord Ultas Maernos. 
Lady Tresh Lanngolyn has taken the man in as her guest, 
scheming to upset "Ultas' plan to infest our neighborhood 
with those awful nonhumans by presenting him his long 
lost son!" Whether or not the man, Morrisan, is the true 
heir of Lord Maernos is up to the DM. 


• Among the more vicious rumors bandied about in Water- 
deep, slavetrading is oft whispered in conjunction with 
the Piiradost clan. Spoken softly so as not to attract the 
attention of the Lords, some even hint that Lord Hum- 
braz's eldest son Farlond was sent from the city due to 
some bungled transaction that nearly brought the whole 
family to ruin. 

• Lady Aridarye Phylund seems to have powerful friends, 
even after the death of her husband and the ascension of 
her stepson to the lordship. When Lord Urtos II mar 
ried, noblewomen muttered about Aridarye's imminent 
downfall and expulsion. Curiously enough, when Lord 
Phylund had his first-born son named heir of the Phy- 
lunds, a masked and robed Lord came to the villa and 
proclaimed that the son was an unfit heir, and Aridarye's 
son, Urtos III, would be the heir. No explanation was 
given, but Lord Phylund's challenge to this claim at the 
Lord's Court was defeated. Lord Piergeiron following the 
decision of his fellow Lord. Now, Aridarye is firmly 
entrenched in the Phylund nobility, despite the current 
lord's cold contempt of her. 

• The Stormweather clan is in an uproar over the appear 
ance of a claimant to the hotly contested lordship, with 
the passing of Lord Mintos in Eleint; Jhardnet, the 
alleged elder brother of Lord Mintos, long believed dead 
and the original heir to the title, entered the city off a 
ship hailing from Mintarn. With the family split sup 
porting either Jhardnet or Mintos' son Harkan, the 
inheritance claim will be settled at the Lord's Court. At 
the DM's discretion, a number of assassination attempts 
can be made on either claimant, creating a need for 
objective mercenary guards (like the PCs). . . . 

• On a bright morning in Alturiak, a curious crowd col 
lected on the steps of Piergeiron's Palace at dawn, 
looking at something. A chalk circle was etched into 
the main landing in front of the Palace doors, the cir 
cle having definite magical sigils (including the marks 
of the Snome and Wands families) and marks. Within 
the circle were the charred, consumed remains of a 
number of magical items, including identifiable pieces 
of a staff of power, a firing carpet, and a necklace of mis 
siles. The Watchful Order is at a loss to explain what 
happened, but rumors begin flying about wildly, and 
Thyri Snome and Maskar Wands definitely want some 
real answers .... 


Chxpt&n Thn.ee: 
Mowey & The 
Gu)L£>s 

t the risk of using a most-tired cliche, money is the heartblood of Water- 
deep. Coin, commerce, trade-call it what you will, but it is what dri 
ves this great city. Granted, the Lords rule it wisely and well, but the 
Guilds constantly believe that, since they control the majority of the 
city's lifeblood, they should control the city. Methinks they should be 
reminded of the houses Zoar and Gildeggh ...." 

- Mirt the Moneylender, circa 1345 Dalereckoning 



It all started here in Waterdeep as a simple matter of survival. Primitive tribes traded items 
here for food, weapons, and items to help them survive the harsh winters of the North. 
When the first tribe settled at the shores of the deepwater harbor, claiming the virgin tim 
ber of the area as its own and using it for barter, the "place of Water Deep" became home 
to trade. Eventually, this matter of survival gave way to the practiced manipulation and 
amassing of coin seen today on nearly every street comer of Waterdeep. Money and trade 
have always ruled this city and they affect nearly every aspect of life here. 

Mowey 

\]\7 aterdeep is a rich merchants' city, the crossroads of trade and culture of the Sword 
r y Coast. Beings of many races come from all over the Realms to live, work, and do 
business here. Trade is transacted by barter and in many currencies. Practically any coin is 
accepted for its metal value, and gems are negotiable according to their rarity, size, and 
quality; standard AD&D(r) game values for copper, silver, electrum, gold, and platinum 
pieces should be used, as should the relative varieties and values of gems described in the 
DUNGEON MASTER(r) Guide. DMs should bear in mind that the Realms have some 
unique coin and gem varieties, and visitors from many worlds and planes are not as rare as 
some believe; one's own invented coins and gems could easily be introduced into play. 
Written notes-of-hand are seldom honored by any save those who issued them, or others 
of the same noble family, merchant company, or guild. 

Co) Mage 

Waterdeep does have its own coinage, as do the other major cities in the North (such 
as Silverymoon and Mirabar). Most cities honor all coinage; "trade bars" of silver 
(which very quickly corrode to a black hue) and electrum in 10-, 25-, and 50-gold 
piece weight are common throughout the North, and used everywhere in the Realms 
(in the South, gems are more often used for such purposes). 

Mirabar makes four-sided trade bars of black iron; each is like two long, thin pyra 
mids joined together at their bases, forming a foot-long spindle. These are valued at 10 

































gold pieces in Mirabar, 7 gold pieces in Luskan and Port 
Llast, and 5 gold pieces elsewhere. 

Silverymoon mints a crescent-shaped, shining blue coin 
called an "electrum moon." These are worth 2 electrum 
pieces in Alustriel's lands and 1 electrum piece elsewhere. 
Recently, they began making a larger, round coin called the 
"eclipsed moon"; they stamp the shining blue crescent of 
an electrum moon together with a darker silver wedge to 
complete a round coin, and it is worth 5 electrum pieces 
within the city, 2 electrum pieces without. 

Waterdeep produces a square, flat brass coin called a 
"taol," issued and honored by the Lords' treasury, which has 
a 2-gold-piece value within the city walls and very little 
value elsewhere. Most taols never leave the city, but are 
changed to standard coins of metal value by those leaving. 
Taols have holes in the center to aid the user in collecting 
them on a ring or thong; one eccentric warrior of long-ago 
Waterdeep always paid in bills by means of a hurled dagger 
on which were transfixed several taols, aimed at the bar or 
a pillar nearby. The much rarer "harbor moon," worth 25 
taols or 50 gold pieces, is fashioned of platinum inset with 
electrum, and consists of a crescent with a hole cut into the 
center of its curve; its name comes from its traditional use 
in the docks for buying large amounts of cargo at a time. 
Also issued by the treasury, this is another coin of lesser 
value (about 2 platinum pieces) outside the city walls. 

Moneylenders are respected citizens of this trading city; every 
one needs extra money from time to time. Moneychanging- 
the conversion of one currency to another, including goods 
(such as furs or weapons) into hard cash-is the daily bread- 
and-butter of moneylenders, who make a 10-15% profit on 
such transactions. Moneylending involves a written promise of 
collateral in the form of property (which becomes the lender's 
if the loan is not repaid), and written terms of interest with a 
time-limit; most loans are for one or two months, and rates of 
interest vary from 15% for small loans (anything under 100 
pieces of gold, not including interest) to 30% for very large 
loans. There is mild competition in this field, but most rates are 
similar from lender to lender. A lender may have two body 
guards (no more) by law, but may request assistance from the 
watch in guarding large amounts of cash, or the presence of the 
watch at a difficult transaction, although the watch cannot be 
held responsible for losses that occur despite their presence. 
One of the current Lords of Waterdeep, the former mercenary 
Mirt, has amassed a considerable fortune through prudent 
moneylending. If detected, usury (the charging of outrageously 


high rates) results in the lender becoming in debt to the city, 
which returns the excess to the victim and may seize the 
lender's property to recover its money. 

Tajres Fees 

At present, Waterdeep collects no annual taxes, but raises 
its revenues by the charging of fees, as follows: 

• 1 copper piece per market stall per day, collected 
between sunrise and sunset by any city watch patrol, 
who issue receipts for fees (to show later patrols the fee 
has been paid). This buys the exclusive use of that loca 
tion from sunrise to sunset, security patrols by the 
watch, and freedom to sell goods at whatever the mar 
ket will bear, rather than at prices set by guilds. Guilds 
pay these fees for members, out of guild dues. 

• 1 silver piece (above any fines) from any person con 
victed in a Magisterial or Lord's Court, per conviction. 

• 1 gold piece per caravan wagon leaving the city, empty 
or full. 

• 1 gold piece per sword sold (fee included in the price, and 
submitted by the vendor to a Magister or the watch within 
ten days); all blades sold in Waterdeep are thus taxed and 
registered, and Magisters deem anything with a blade over 
one foot long to be a sword. Other weapons are not so taxed; 
hence, many citizens of Waterdeep use clubs and daggers 
(shady characters use garrotes, hidden daggers, and lassos). 

• 5 gold pieces per ship that docks in Waterdeep, col 
lected from the captain. It covers a stay of up to four 
teen days, provided the ship does not leave the harbor 
and return during that time, which ends the stay and 
begins a new one. This fee covers watch patrols, the 
dock space, fresh water, ballast supplied if desired, and 
the right to dump ballast or spoiled cargoes in an 
agreed-upon area under the direction of the watch (and 
a complement of mermen guards). 

In times of trouble, direct taxes may be imposed: 

• a "fire tax" (1 gp per household), levied whenever fire 
destroys a large portion of Waterdeep (an uncommon 
event (see Chapter Six of the Campaign Guide); 

• a "wall tax" or "harbor tax" (1 gp per household), raised 
to pay for needed repairs or expansions; and 

• a "lance tax," raised for a payroll for mercenaries hired 
by the City when required (usually 1 silver piece per 
household each week until the Lords repeal the tax). 

All in all, Waterdhavians are lightly taxed and know it; they 
may grumble, but they never collectively revolt or refuse to pay. 




Wages 

Wages are discussed under the relevant guilds and in sec 
tions dealing with certain activities. For DMs wishing to 
determine wages not already given, use these standards: 

• 4 copper pieces/ day (2 cp per half-day) for basic, 
unskilled tasks requiring strength (such as 
loading/unloading goods); 

• 3 copper pieces/day (no half-day wages, usually, but 
lunch included) for taking or issuing chits, blocking a 
shop exit to shoppers who might otherwise leave with 
out paying, and other less demanding jobs; 

. 5 silver pieces/day for messengers and other bearers of 
responsibility; and 

• a wage from 8 silver pieces to 1 gold piece/day for hired 
bodyguards (rate depends on armor, weapons, and dis 
played skills they can offer their employer). 

Persons seeking casual daily employment in the City tradi 
tionally gather daily at any of the city gates in all seasons 
except high winter, and wait to be approached by a merchant 
who might hire them. By tradition, one does not call out one's 
skills or desire for employment, but lets potential employers 
question and examine quietly, and make any approaches if 
interested. Adventurers down on their luck often act as body 
guards, although a feeble, handicapped, or obviously wounded 
person will, of course, be passed over for such employment. 
Hiring for bodyguards and mercenaries, while possible at the 
gates, commonly takes place at Virgin's Square in Trades Ward, 
and does not always follow the usual conventions. (Many mer 
cenaries speak out and advertise their abilities and skills, as well 
as approach known mercenary contacts.) 

Prices 

Average prices in Waterdeep are identical to those given in 
the AD&D(r) Player's Handbook. Player and nonplayer char 
acters too poor to afford such fare (such as those on some of 
the base wages given above) can buy a "docker's quaff": a 
skin of watered-down barley beer and a round loaf of crusty 
brown bread baked around sausage ends and meat scraps, 
for 1 cp; this, or variations of this simple fare, provides 
many Waterdhavians with their main daily meal. It can 
only be bought in the open markets of the city, and only 
from late morning to early afternoon, each day. Better fare 
is priced roughly as follows: a tankard of ale is 1 sp; a jack 
of wine about 7 sp; and a simple, full meal about 1 sp. Of 
course, in a city where trade is tantamount to breathing, 
even/thing is negotiable, leading to haggling. 


Haggling 

Haggling offers players and DMs a splendid opportunity 
for role-playing and can serve to open up hesitant players 
who are newcomers to role-playing, as well as allowing a 
DM to give players something of the "feel" (and the 
occasional item of interesting gossip that might point the 
way to an adventure or two) of Waterdeep. One can 
always haggle in the open markets: undercutting guild 
prices is the way such merchants attract business. Food 
prices (such as those given above) are not haggled over; a 
vendor signals that certain wares are not to be haggled 
over by giving an outrageously high price when a low 
price is offered by a buyer, followed by stating the real 
price in a clear, slow voice. Few shop owners who belong 
to guilds will haggle much; they may go down by ten per 
cent, but no more (unless trying to unload perishable 
goods that will spoil if kept longer). If pressed, they will 
say, "Guild law, friend," or rarely (in the case of sword 
sellers and the 1 gp fee) "Lords' edict, friend," and close 
off any bargaining. If a vendor willing to haggle reaches 
his or her lowest price, and a buyer pushes further, the 
vendor will say, "Thief! Why not join the Lords, and take 
my life, too?" 

" Alienage" Prices fox. Goods & 
Senvices ihj WdTe ndeep 

In the brief summary below, prices are provided for 
items player characters may well desire or require. DMs 
should use these as guidelines only, following certain 
strictures: 

• If something is in great demand and short supply, prices rise. 

• If there is a glut, prices fall. 

• If a guild is involved in the price-setting, that is men 
tioned at the end of the entry (independent operators 
usually undercut the Guild by 5-10% unless their prod 
uct is in such demand that they need not compete with 
guild prices). 

. Prices given within the Player's Handbook and the 
DUNGEON MASTER Guide are considered to hold 
true, in general, for Waterdeep, and are not duplicated 
here unless special modifications apply. 

• Prices for unusual services-bounty hunting, for exam 
ple, or for the sale of monsters and monster eggs or 
young-are not given herein, as it is recommended that 
a DM determine these on a case-by-case basis, role-play 
ing all deal-making. 







33 



Accounting: see "Bookkeeping" 

Ale, tankard: 1 sp to 10 sp (varies with quality) 

Baldric: see Weapon-harness 

Barrel: 5 sp to 5 gp, depending on size (Guild) 

Basket, wicker: 24 cp depending on size, durability (Guild) 
Beer: (dark stout), full quaff: 2 sp; 1 barrel: 20 gp (Guild) 
Bells: wooden: 5 cp/cast metal: 15 gp, depending on size 
and tone (Guild) 

Bookkeeping: 1 gp per day or portion of day spent on 
accounts (Guild) 

Boots: new: 3 gp/repair: 5-15 sp (Guild) a bonus of up to 5 
gp is customarily paid for immediate (same day) service. 
Secondhand boots: 5 sp to 20 sp (markets) 

Bottles (glass): new: 1 gp per bottle, matching sets; 3-6 cp 
per bottle, "odd bottles" (Guild)/secondhand 1 or 2 cp 
Bowl, carved wooden: average price 2 cp (increases with 
size, finer workmanship, materials) 

Bowl, cast metal: average price 2 sp (increases with size, 
finer workmanship, materials) (Guild) 

Bread, fresh baked: 1-4 cp/loaf (depending on size, qual 
ity)/'"waybread" (older, hard baked): 2 cp/loaf 
Building (including repairs or additions): 

Stone: 10 gp/day per Guild workman and 3 gp/day per 
assistant plus 10 gp daily crew expenses fee, plus materi 
als (Guild). See also "Stone." 

Wood: 1 gp per man per day, plus 5 gp for a surveyor- 
chartist, plus 5 gp for a Guild engineer plus materials 
plus 10 gp/day crew needs fee (Guild). See also "Lum 
ber". (does not include "Excavations," q.v.) 

Candles, scented and colored: 2 sp each (Guild), used: 1-3 
cp (for "nobles' stubs"; i.e. ends) 

Carrying fare: 1 cp for a half-hour or less ride anywhere 
within city walls, in an open trotting-cart (and up, for 
better conveyance) (Guild) 

Cart, new: 25 gp to 60 gp depending on size - all have two 
wheels (plus a spare underneath), an open carrying bed, 
and trails for beasts; the more ornate have a seat for the 
driver, removable sides, etc. (Guild) 

Chain: 1 gp/yard (ornamental) to 5 gp/yard (harbor or 
gate) depending on size and strength (weight and 
method of joining links) (Guild) 

Chimney-cleaning: 10 sp-1 gp/chimney (wealthy are 
charged more) 

Cloth, new-woven: 5 sp to 10 gp per bolt, depending upon 
materials, demand, imported or local (Guild) (does not 
include "Wool"; q.v.) 



Clothing, tailored new: 5-20 gp/garment (Guild) "Off the 
rack:" 2-15 cp/garment (depending on amount of mater 
ial, workmanship, materials used, style); secondhand: 2 
sp to 4 gp per garment if tailored, 2 cp to 10 cp if not 
Crockery, earthenware: 1 cp-6 cp per item, depending on 
glazing, size, complexity, and durability 
Crystal balls: 4-8 gp, depending on size (plus enspelling 
fee) 

Divination, folk: many prices, many methods; most who 
can afford it purchase clerical magic 
Drugs: medicinal: 1-8 gp/bottle (includes bottle, contents 
yield 3-6 doses, usually 4) (Guild) 

Dyeing, of cloth, provided by the client: 5 sp to 10 gp/bolt, 
depending on complexity and difficulty of desired result 
(Guild) 

Excavations: 2 gp per man per day (or part of day) plus 
materials, plus 10 gp/day crew head fee (Guild) 

Ferrying (about harbor, to and from ship and shore): 2 cp 
per trip per person carried, plus an additional 1 cp per 
passenger if any accompanying luggage, pets, or goods 
are not wholly carried by the passenger (Guild) 

Fertilizer: 5 gp/wagonload (manure), 7 gp/wagonload (fish 
or bone meal) (Guild) 

Firefighting, magical (if no Fire guard hired): 10 gp per 
building, regardless of success (Guild) 

Firewood: 5 sp to 1 gp/face cord (known in Waterdeep as a 
"Stand"), ranging according to the type and dryness of 
wood, and difficulty of procuring it (i.e. higher in deep 
est winter) 

Fish, fresh-caught: 1 cp to 12 cp per fish, depending on 
species, sizes, and condition 

Furniture, wooden: 1 sp to 15 gp per piece, depending on 
size, workmanship, and materials used; most "normal" 
chairs, standing shelves, and plain tables cost about 2-4 
gp each (Guild) 

Glass: 4 cp for 4-inch-square pane to 6 gp for a 4-foot- 
square pane (Guild); for blown vessels, see "Bottles" 
Gowns, fine: 33-99 gp, plus cost of materials and perhaps 
gems, provided or selected by client (Guild) 

Guiding through city: 2 cp by day, 4 cp by night (Guild) 
"Hardware": metal work (latches, hinges, needles, spikes) 
sold by weight, usually 1 cp per ounce (Guild) 

Herbs: 5 cp to 8 gp/ dry ounce (saffron is 40 gp/dry ounce) 
Hooks, metal: 1 cp (fishhook) to 4 gp (grappling or meat) 
(Guild) 

Horses, shoeing: 1 gp per shoe (includes making or fitting 
and shoeing) (Guild) 





34 



Horses, stabling: 1 gp to 3 gp/night (includes night watch, 
feeding, watering, cleaning, and rubdown, exercise if 
necessary) (Guild) 

Horseshoes: see "Horses, shoeing" (value of a used/found 
shoe is 1 cp to 3 cp, based on size and condition) 

Ink: sold by the 2 ounce bottle, 10 sp-4 gp per bottle 
according to ingredients, such as gilding pigments; 
always includes bottle (Guild) 

Jewelry: varies widely according to value of materials, from 
costume jewelry employing much brass, at 2-4 cp per 
piece, to elaborate pectorals worth up to 400,000 gp 
(Guild); many Waterdhavians wear rings or belt buckles 
of worked gold worth 2-4 gp 

Lamp oil: 3 sp for a 2 ounce bottle, or 1 gp/flask (as per 
Player's Handbook), or 10 gp/small key (sealed with tar) 
Lamps: 4 cp (hand clay lamp) to 50 gp (waterproof lantern) 
(Guild) 

Laundry: 2 sp/garment "while you wait," 1 sp/garment 
overnight (Guild) 

Law: professional witness, assistance of: 10 gp per day (dou 
ble if hired to state against charges of "severe" crimes), 
payable in advance 

Letters, written: 10 gp/page (includes materials) (Guild) 
Lighting through city (without guiding): 3 cp/trip (if guid 
ing, use "Guiding" entry) (Guild) 

Livery, Guild or other: 3 gp/suit, plus materials (Guild) 
Loading/ unloading, docks: 1 sp per man per hour, 2 sp per 
man per hour if cargo is dangerous (Guild) 

Lumber: 1 cp/board (2" x 4" x 8' long) and 2 cp/bar (4" x 
4" x 8' long) to 1 sp/board and 12 sp/bar depending on 
type and condition; prices will vary with nonstandard 
sizes 

Magnifying glasses: 5-10 gp each (Guild) 

Maps: 25 gp in nine days, delivery to Waterdeep address 
included; "rush" jobs 18 gp. Cost may increase if map 
unusually large (Guild) 

Meat, fresh: 10 gp (whole carcass, average price), 17 gp 
(smoked carcass), varying with condition and size of car 
cass, type of animal (Guild) 

Medical care: 10-20 gp daily (includes nursing, splints, 
dressings, emergency medicines, etc.) (Guild) 
Moneylending, Money changing: 10% interest (for princi 
pal of 100 gp or less) to 15% interest 
Musicians, performing: 6 sp/day or occasion (whichever is 
the lesser time) for each musician (Guild) 


Musical instruments, new: 1 gp/day of making (most instru 
ments take a month) (Guild); secondhand: 30 gp aver 
age (varies widely with instrument and condition) 

Night watchmen: 1 gp each/night, per building watched 
(unarmed; for armed men, "bodyguard" rates apply; see 
text under "Wages") 

Packing: 3 gp for 1 hour of crating and packing 1 person's 
typical belongings, readied for extended travel (Guild) 
Paper: scrip: 2 cp/ream; parchment: 5 cp/ream (1 ream is 
roughly 10" x 14", a two-sided sheet) (Guild) 

Party costumes: masks and suits of metal, 600 to 2,000 gp 
(Guild); 20-75 gp for ornate metal masks only 
Pastries: 1 cp each, or if small, a dozen for 2 cp 
Pens: 2 cp each (quill), 2-4 sp (metal nib; varying with 
design) (Guild) 

Perfume: sold by the 2-ounce bottle, always including the 
bottle (sometimes quite ornate) and varying in cost from 
1 cp to 30 gp, depending on quality and demand 
Pictures and likenesses: 2 gp each to 6 gp each (Guild) 

Pots, cast metal: 5 gp each, average price (with lid, varies 
with size, quality) (Guild) 

Rope: 100' coil of thin black waxed cord: 17 sp; 100' coil of 
ornamental, silk braided cord: 25 gp (Guild) 

Sail: single lateen sail 500 to 700 gp (30% less if several 
months' notice given) (Guild); non-Guild "no guaran 
tees" sails sell as low as 200 gp for full rigging; refer to 
text under the "Most Diligent League of Sail-Makers 
and Cordwainers" 

Scrolls: see "Spells" if magical, "Paper" if not (price is per 
ream, stitched together) 

Seals: of metal, 12 gp for each design or likeness (Guild) 
Security: see "Night watchmen," "Spell guard," and text 
under "Wages" for bodyguards 

Ships: 5,000 to 7,000 gp (minus 1,000 to 1,500 gp if 
"used"); for breakdown by type, see text under "The 
Order of Master Shipwrights" (Guild) 

Shoes: see "Boots"; reduce all costs by half 
Signet rings: see "Seals" 

Signs, lettering: 5 gp/day (or part of a day) (Guild) 

Smith's tools: 70 gp (full and proper assortment; fine tem 
pering is required) 

Soap: 3 gp per 10 gallon barrel to non-members (Guild) 
Spectacles: 5-10 gp each "pair" (Guild) 

Spell guard, magical: 10 gp/day (Guild) 



35 


Spells (scrolls): see text under "The Watchful Order of 
Magists & Protectors" (Guild) for prices; typically a 
75% mark-up to non members (sold by individual Guild 
members, not by the Guild) 

Spellcasting, at trials: 500 gp per divination spell cast, paid 
by city if cast upon order of a city official 
Spices: see "Herbs" 

Stamp-marks: see "Seals" 

Stone: 2 cp/block if purchased to do own work; 3 cp/block 
laid by Guild for repairs or additions; 4 cp/block laid by 
Guild when new structures built; 5 cp/block laid by 
Guild if marble, obsidian, or other "finestone" (Guild) 
Suspenders: 2 cp each set 

Tankards, cast: 10 sp to 1 gp, depending on size and work 
manship (new) (Guild); 3 cp (secondhand) 

Tiles: new: 1 cp to 3 cp each (varies with quality), laid: 1 
cp each extra (or daily rate) (Guild) 

Tote straps: 3 cp/strap (Guild) 

Toys, metal: 5 cp to 5 gp (Guild) 

Training, of mounts: 2 gp/day (2 weeks to 1 month 
required, depending on desired result) 

Wagons: 75-200 gp, varying with size, durability, style, and 
length of time given to build; custom or unusual sizes 
and style more expensive (Guild) 

Weapon-harness: 1 gp per piece (e.g. belt, scabbard, baldric 
= 3 pieces) (Guild) 

Weapons, bladed: cost as per Player's Handbook, plus 1 gp 
city fee (various Guilds) 

Wheels, replacement (for wagons and carts): 2 gp to 6 gp 
per wheel, depending on size, design, difficulty of job 
and materials required; double if job is a "rush" or a dan 
gerous one, involving travel outside the city walls 
(Guild) 

Wickerwork, small: 1 cp/piece (Guild) 

Window frame: wooden: see "Building"; metal, custom- 
made to fit: 5 sp-10 sp unbarred, depending on size, 2 
gp-10 gp if barred, depending on size, aesthetic design of 
the bars, and sturdiness (Guild) 

Windowpanes: see "Glass" 

Wine: 7 sp/jack, 1 gp/bottle, 20 gp/barrel to 4 gp/jack, 12 
gp/bottle, 70 gp/barrel depending on quality, rarity, 
"fashionability" (Guild) 

Wool: 7 gp per bolt, fine spun but undyed (Guild) 

Zzar 2 gp/jack, 7 gp/bottle, 40 gp/small key (Guild) 


Fewces 

Many merchants in Waterdeep will purchase or trade for 
the occasional item of dubious origin, particularly if the 
item is not of overly distinctive appearance, they have not 
heard that the watch is looking for the item, or have not 
themselves heard of a theft involving such an item. Fences 
who do a lot of trade in stolen goods are rare. Several, as 
might be expected, are to be found in Dock Ward, but the 
most successful are a rich noble who lives alone, and the 
proprietor of a busy inn, whose guests often bring "extra" 
belongings that they leave behind, with no one of the 
watch or government any the wiser. 

Those fences that survive in this generally law-abiding 
city are both shrewd and paranoid, and take elaborate pre 
cautions against arrest, exposure, and possible treachery on 
the part of their clients. PCs who deal with a fence and try 
to "jump" him may find themselves hurled into pit traps at 
the touch of a lever, or suffer poisoned crossbow bolts fired 
by the fence's servants from the ceiling above or from con 
cealed holes in the walls behind them. Most fences have 
means of acquiring shield and wall of force protections-and 
their treasure stores may well have golems and more sinis 
ter guardians. 

Asking in the rougher taverns of the city is the only 
way to find a fence if one is not familiar with the city. 
DMs should role-play attempts to find a fence to the 
hilt, bearing in mind that thieves and undercover 
guardsmen (and Lords' agents) listen sharp in such tav 
erns, and that PCs may be sent to a succession of NPCs 
before one of them gives the name of the contact for 
any fences in the list below (usually with a password or 
secret sign). Fences pay 5% more than the "usual" price 
given below for items in their specialties. 

Kmou?m FeMces of WaXeRdeep 

Name; Contact, Location of Contact; Location of Fence; 
Specialties; Usual Price Paid (in % of street value) 

Lhund Dhaermos; Hulfast, on the docks (often Wharf 
Street, Dock Ward); Dhaermos Warehouse, Belnimbra's 
Street, Dock Ward (D4); exotic creatures, plants, and all 
types of slaves; 30% 

Bulthorr "the Bold"; Balthorr, at Balthorr's Rare and Won 
drous Treasures, The Street of the Sword, Castle Ward 
(C14); gems, rare coins, regalia; 40% 

Chuldan Helmstar; Chuldan; at Helmstar Warehouse, 
Dock Street, Dock Ward (D14); carvings, statuary; 35% 


Orlpar Husteem (younger brother of Orbos, head of the 
Husteem noble family); Hala Myrt at The Grinning Lion 
tavern, off Golden Serpent Street, North Ward (N55); Orl- 
par's house on Golden Serpent Street, North Ward (N58); 
spices, scents, wines, and drugs; 60% 

Alek Lenter; Thunna Cremek, at the Thirsty Throat tav 
ern on the Way of the Dragon, Dock Ward (D13); Wau- 
keen's Wares, in Adventurers' Quarter, Southern Ward 
(AQ13); poisons, alchemical substances, and delivery sys 
tems of same (hollow daggers, needle-rings, etc.); 50% 
Orsabbas "the Fingers"; Orsabbas, at Orsabbas' Fine 
Imports, Vellarr's Lane, Trades Ward (T17); tapestries, 
wines, perfumes; 30% 

Phalantar Orivan; Phalantar, at Phalantar's Philtres & 
Components, The Street of Bells, Castle Ward (C33); 
magic-written and active (i.e. magical items); 35% 
Alathann Ruil; "One-Eyed Jukk" at The Bloody Fist, Pres- 
per & Snail Streets, Dock Ward (D17); Red Sails Ware 
house on Cod Lane, Dock Ward (D20); weapons, armor, 
fine metalwork; 40% 

Jannaxil Serpentil; Jannaxil, at Serpentil Books & Folios, 
off Book Street, Dock Ward (DIO); maps, charts, scrolls, 
and books; 30% 

Haerlit Thornrn; Felzoun Thar at Felzoun's Folly, Salabar 
Street, Trades Ward (T39); Thomm Warehouse, Sambril 
Lane, Dock Ward (D49); furniture and distinctive furnish 
ings; 35% 

Ulmar "the Watchful"; Ulmar or Zhaegos; Crommor's 
Warehouse, The Reach, Castle Ward (C51); ships & ship 
board equipment, cargos; 40% 

Torst Urlivan; Torst, at his inn, The Gentle Rest, The 
High Road, Trades Ward (T32); Gentle Rest Stables, 
Deloun Alley, Trades Ward (T33); horses, harness; 40% 

The Guilds 

T he Guilds have been a mainstay in Waterdeep for cen 
turies and they have always had a major influence on 
the city at large. Their management and their skilled control 
of commerce brought Waterdeep to its great prominence as a 
center of trade for the Sword Coast. Their avarice, ruthless 
ness, and greed nearly destroyed Waterdeep twice over in the 
past. The guilds have proven their worth to the city time and 
again, as they have proven their worthlessness in turn when 
attempting to rule the city. For good or ill, competent or not, 
the guilds are a controlling force in the city, one constantly at 
odds with but held in check by the Lords of Waterdeep. 


The Guilds are not one whole power group, but are dis 
tinct and different groups of people, each dedicated to 
upholding the craft and service (and related political agen 
das) of their own choosing. Some guilds work more closely 
with the Lords, their activities integral to the city's welfare, 
while others are specialty guilds that only wield influence 
in the Market. Each guild's trade determines its importance 
and influence upon the city, some often deceiving in their 
perceived power: while a lowly dungsweeper appears to 
wield no power, a strike by the Dungsweepers' Guild is one 
of serious impact on the city! 

Guilds must be recognized by the Lords. The newest offi 
cial guilds are The Watchful Order of Magists & Protec 
tors, formed fifty years ago, and the eight-year-old Loyal 
Order of Street Laborers. Applications for guild formation 
are seldom recognized. Applications that would create 
rivals in the same field(s) of trade as an existing guild are 
always denied; the Lords prefer that competition exist 
within guilds, rather than between them-although rival 
guilds often compete over areas of trade where their juris 
dictions overlap. 

Guilds have widely varying degrees of influence, but 
no official precedence; they are numbered on the roster 
below purely for ease of reference (the guilds are also 
arranged alphabetically for easy reference as well). Guild 
ranks vary, but usually, from the top down, they are 
Master (or head); Elders or Council (if they have a say in 
governing guild matters), usually "senior members"; 
Speaker or contact person for the public; Member; 
Apprentice or Prentice or Novice (the term varies from 
guild to guild, as do the powers of this rank). Consult 
individual guild entries below to find the various dues 
required for guild membership. 

GuILd Halls 

Each of the guilds of the city has a headquarters of sorts, 
the guild hall. (See the Adventurer's Guide to the City for 
a random sampling of guild halls.) The guild hall acts as 
a showcase of the guild's trade or products, a meeting 
place for guild members (though not always the place for 
guild meetings of the full membership; the Cynosure is 
often rented to populous guilds for this purpose), the 
central clearinghouse for guild business, and the offices of 
the officers of the guild (the guild master, et al). On top 
of all that, guild halls are often places of business run by 
the guild, with that business's profits benefiting the guild 
master. 







Now, even though it is relatively simple to find the guild 
halls themselves, getting in contact with the guild master is 
rare (unless one is a Lord or a noble of note), and cus 
tomers are often shuttled through the channels to do busi 
ness. Down below, in the roster of the guilds, there are 
various NPCs listed that might act as potential guild con 
tacts for the player characters. 

Guild Laud 

Guild Law, the rules under which specific trades are con 
ducted, are distinct from city law but can never conflict 
or override city law or the known intent of such laws. 
Guilds pay careful attention to all that is said by any 
Lord, and govern their affairs accordingly. On only two 
occasions since the destruction of the two Lords Magister, 
guild masters have defied or quietly contradicted edicts of 
the Lords; in both incidents, the guild master was exiled, 
and his or her family was expelled from the guild, though 
not from the city. Waterdeep is often called "The Open 
City" when trade and guilds are discussed, because its 
guilds are not all powerful, and cannot restrict trade to 
their members alone; the Lords and Magisters are strict 
and vigilant about this. Tradesmen operating outside of a 
guild, of course, are not entitled to guild rights and privi 
leges, and the concerned guilds cannot be held responsi 
ble for the actions of such outsiders. The guilds are 
allowed to make very public the fact that this or that per 
son is not part of the guild (and very often do so to pre 
vent any damage to guild reputations). 

RosTen. of The Guilds 

H ereafter the forty-three recognized guilds of Water- 
deep are described in brief. For each, the name, class 
and level, and guild title, if any, of the master and a contact 
person are given. Some guilds don't have a separate 
spokesman, and all business is addressed directly to the 
guild master. Few guilds control their field of interest 
absolutely. Most guilds merely use their strength of num 
bers to do better than independent merchants, and thereby 
gain the lion's share of business. 

The majority of Waterdhavians, living in a city of con 
tracts, negotiations, and commerce, are literate. Without 
exception, all guild contacts and senior members can read 
and write (whether they will admit to being able to do so is 
another matter). 


The DM should read the entry for any guild the PCs 
have dealings with, and consider the motivations of guild 
members and agents, to determine how this or that guild 
should act towards PC offers and activities. 

1. The Bakers' Guild 

Master: Dundold Buldharroaz (LG hm FO) 

Headquarters: The Master Bakers' Hall, The Street of the 
Sword, Castle Ward (C27) 

Livery: White cloaks and hats with a light blue chevron on 
the left shoulder or brim of each 
Entrance: 10 gp; by application to "the Master Bakers": the 
ten senior (longest registered) guild members, plus the 
Master 

Dues: 5 sp/month 

Contact: Relchoz Hriiat (CN hm FI, INT 17, WIS & CHA 
16), Hriiat Fine Pastries, Sammarin's Street, North 
Ward (N60) 

The Bakers' Guild is very wealthy. Its wares are known to 
be of good quality, and many citizens of Waterdeep live 
largely on breads and pastries. This, of course, makes it of 
great interest to those trying to get money for investments 
in other businesses (which has increased this guild's influ 
ence with other guilds, and the influence of individual bak 
ers with other merchants), and to thieves. As a result of the 
attentions of the latter group, most bakers have "runners" 
who both deliver hot wares to customers who place large 
orders, and serve to chase thieves and act as bodyguards to 
protect the bakers and their cash. These private guards 
have no authority, but the watch usually cooperates with 
them rather than resenting or cautioning them. 

SI. The CdrzpesjTerzs\ Roofers', 

AN)<3 PlAisXeizens' Guild 

Master: Halthos "the Hammer" Blund (N hm F3) 
Headquarters: The Stone House, Telshambra's Street, 
Southern Ward (S2) 

Livery: Red caps, pierced in the brow with a row of three 
brass nails 

Entrance: 25 gp per individual 

Dues: 10 gp/year (member); 5 gp/year (apprentice) 

Contact: Elemos "the Hand" Dunblast (LE hm T3), Dun- 
blast Roofing, Ironpost Street, Trades Ward (T9) 







38 


This guild is extremely busy and extremely rich, with 
many members; even casual labor hired by its members 
must be enrolled in the guild (even if only as appren 
tices), although the guild is continually unsuccessful in 
attempts to force the Lords to legally restrict building, 
construction, and repair within the City to guild mem 
bers. The Lords have repeatedly taken the position that a 
building is the property of its owner, who may modify, 
repair, or rebuild it if he or she wishes, and that any sys 
tem of inspection must remain within the power of the 
Lords, and not be made a guild affair. There have been 
several instances of guild members sabotaging nonguild 
work (to convince building owners to trust only the 
guild: "you can be sure our work won't collapse around 
you . . . "), but by and large members of this guild are too 
busy for such mischief. They have their hands full just 
keeping up with demands from nobles to build this or 
that new, bigger, and higher, and from merchants to 
repair this or that as cheaply as possible so long as it 
won't fall down, and finish it by tonight . . . 

Guild work is expensive: 1 gold piece per man per day on 
the site, plus 5 gold pieces for a guild surveyor-chartist, and 
5 gold pieces for a guild engineer (usually the boss of a 
work crew, with the surveyor-chartist being the crew's liai 
son with clients), plus the cost of materials, and a flat 10 
gold pieces per day fee for "crew needs" (food and drink), 
regardless of the size of that day's crew. This guild does ser 
viceable work, although it boasts no great engineering 
genius in its ranks at present, and specializes in competent 
repair work. 

Most successful guild members undertake work in 
neighboring cities along the Sword Coast as far north as 
Luskan and as far east as Secomber, although their fees 
rise sharply the farther they get from the walls of Water- 
deep. Most guild members who do outside work have 
arrangements with adventurers to persuade clients toy 
ing with the idea of not paying for work done, to make 
sure payment is prompt and in full. Outside the city, 
most guild members design their own buildings if a 
client 'does not wish to, but inside Waterdeep that is the 
province of another guild, and members of this guild 
only do on-site surveying to match already-prepared 
plans (although they may occasionally pretend other 
wise). 


5. The Celldizerzs an< 3 Plumbers 1 
Guild 

Master: Hilithimm Turnstone - Master Plumber (CG hm 
F2) 

Headquarters: The Old Guildhall, Gaustus Street, Trades 
Ward (T26) 

Livery: Deep orange caps and cloaks, with a red line trim 
border around all hems and cuffs 
Entrance: 5 gp; acceptance by the guild master only 
Dues: 7 sp/month 

Contact: Jhalossan Turnstone (LG hm F0), Turnstone 
Plumbing and Pipefitting, Belnimbra's Street, Dock 
Ward (D2) 

This guild is small, highly trained, and somewhat scornful 
of the "thick-fingered clods" of the Carpenters', Roofers', 
and Plaisterers' Guild, whose work they constantly 
encounter in the course of their duties; with the advent of 
the Loyal Order of Street Laborers, they have even less 
respect, as that guild's trade in street repair used to be a pri 
mary source of income for this guild. The Cellarers' and 
Plumbers' Guild is now strictly concerned with digging 
building foundations, and keeping the sewers of the city 
functional and safe. 

The guild is engaged in constant small repair jobs in the 
sewers about the city, but is no longer responsible for restor 
ing the surface of any street or courtyard dug up; they simply 
send a runner to the Loyal Order promptly upon completion 
of the work, and that other guild handles the repair. Their 
reward for hours of muck and backbreaking digging are the 
highest fees of any of the service guilds: 2 gold pieces per 
man per day or part of a day (most crews are two or three 
men in size) plus materials, and a "crew head" (food and 
drink retainer) of 10 gold pieces per day or part of a day. 

Materials commonly used include lots of pipe, fashioned 
by other guilds, depending on whether it is made out of 
metal or clay; the cellarers and plumbers lay it, support it 
with stones and talus or wooden collars of their own fash 
ioning, and seal everything with various secret mixtures of 
pitch, gravel, lime, sand, and similar materials. 

Members of this guild unearth many things during the 
course of their diggings. By the rules of the guild, they are 
bound to tell only the owner (most will do so only if the 
owner is observing, or asks directly) upon request, or fellow 
guild members, of treasure, skeletons, valuables, secret pas 
sages, and the like (they may keep any of these that they 
can make off with undetected by the owner or the watch. 



by guild rules). Most senior guild members, in their work of 
draining cellars or repairing the sewage plumbing of old 
buildings, learn the general layout of the city sewers in 2-5 
(ld4+l) years. Some believe that members of this guild 
know of underground pipes and cavities that lead nowhere, 
but are used by this guild for storing weapons, magic, and 
treasure -and disposing of the occasional corpse-where 
only earthquake or the guild will find it. Some believe that 
this guild knows of, or even makes, hidden tunnels leading 
into the treasure vaults of nobles, and the cellars of the 
Palace itself. Some are correct. 

A. The Coopcrzs' Guild 

Master: Rugglar Tossarim-Master Cooper (LG hm FO) 
Headquarters: Coopers' Rest, Pressbow Lane, Dock Ward 
(D31) 

Livery: Brown caps and cloaks, with blue and green trim 
lines at the hems 

Entrance: 30 gp; upon acceptance by majority vote of the 
members 

Dues: 3 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

The Coopers' Guild is always kept busy. Many things that 
go aboard ships in Waterdeep's busy port, notably pickled 
fish from the Fishmongers' Fellowship and the wares of the 
Vintners', Distillers', and Brewers' Guild, require its barrels. 
Members of this guild cut, steam, and shape the wood, and 
form and weld the metal (from hoopstock supplied by the 
Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths & Metalforgers) of 
the bands, of barrels themselves, and charge 5 silver pieces 
to 5 gold pieces per barrel, depending on the size (from 
foot-long hand-keg, with rope handle, to 20-foot-long cel 
lar cask; most produced are 1-gold-piece, lo-gallon barrels). 

Long ago, Waterdhavians (and others on the Sword 
Coast) discovered that one of the best ways to smuggle 
things in and out of kingdoms is in sealed barrels, so the 
Guard inspects barrels at random, paying the guild a 
"resealing fee" of 3 silver pieces per barrel. A guild member 
caught smuggling will be fined heavily (usually 50 gold 
pieces). One caught with a dead body or two in a cask will 
be imprisoned, and may lose his or her guild membership 
(such membership losses are quietly restored by the guild 
when imprisonment ends) - and yet this happens con 
stantly; most guild members cannot resist the "free gold" 
they are offered for doing so. Seventy-five gold pieces or 
more is expected, per barrel of contraband. 


5. The Council of Farzmcrz- 

Gkoccks 

Master: Zelderan Guthel-Master Provisioner (N hm FO) 
Headquarters: The Market Hall, Traders' Way, Castle Ward 
(C8) 

Livery: Cloaks or sashes of bright green; in early summer, 
fresh floral blossoms worn at the left shoulder 
Entrance: 1 gp/year, or 25 gp for life membership; none 
refused 

Dues: 5 sp/month 

Contact: Baalbaas Partall -Voice of the Master (CG hm 
FO), The Market Hall 

This guild is a consortium whose membership changes annu 
ally with the fortunes of harvest; memberships expire in 
Hammer, the dead of winter, and run for one year, except for 
roughly 25 life memberships, which are without exception 
held by very wealthy farmers with vast landholdings. The 
Council determines prices for raw grain and arranges milling 
and warehouse facilities in the city (both of which it con 
trols); the milling business provides the guild with its bread- 
and-butter operating money, and when warehouses are 
emptied in winter, with no crops available to replace them 
until first harvest, the guild rents the space to other mer 
chants. The guild also receives regular funds from the Lords 
in return for keeping the city's granaries and icehouses full of 
provisions, to feed the Castle and the Palace, and have emer 
gency food on hand in case of siege or crop disaster. The guild 
arranges market stall space for its members (although individ 
ual members must pay the daily fees), and provides cartage for 
spoiled food to the refuse dumps south of the city. 

6. The Council of Mus1c1ans J 
InsTrzumcnT-Makctzs, and 
ChoKlsXcKs 

Master: Kriios Halambar-Master Musician (LN hm FO), 
known widely as "Old Leatherlungs," Halambar Lutes 
& Harps, Street of the Sword, Castle Ward (C25) 
Headquarters: The House of Song, Rivon Street, Trades 
Ward (T19) 

Livery: Scarlet jackets, with slashed sleeves of white and 
purple, and deep green long cloaks and matching hats, 
with white and purple plumes 
Entrance: 30 gp 

Dues: 25 gp annually (members); 15 gp (apprentices) 

Contact: the Master, or Maxeene "the Flute" Rhiosann-Lady 
Voice of the Council (NG hf FO), The House of Song 


This guild elects its master every seven years, nominat 
ing only candidates from within its membership, and 
eliminating the least popular candidate in successive 
ballots until a Master Musician is chosen. Kriios Halam- 
bar, the current incumbent, has never been unseated in 
such an election, and has held the post for 66 years (he 
is now 87 years of age). If he dies in office, the Voice of 
the Council (the young singer Maxeene) will run the 
Council until the regular seven-year election time comes 
again (although she may of course run as a candidate in 
that election). 

This guild admits only skilled, accomplished artisans 
as full members, and its members enjoy a good reputa 
tion for quality - and command high fees - as a result. 
Member performers gain a typical fee of 6 gold 
pieces/ day. Member instrument-makers command 1 gold 
piece/day, with many days often involved in the making 
of a custom instrument. 

In Waterdeep, true professionals in music are not prima 
donnas with difficult tempers or a need for creative self- 
expression that overwhelms tact. Rather, they pride them 
selves on giving a client exactly what is desired or needed, 
performed superbly. Often clients write terrible tunes or lyrics 
for a guild member to perform at private parties, weddings, or 
other ceremonies. Members of this guild may embellish such 
efforts to make them sound better (previewing them in private 
before the performance for the client's approval), but they 
never change a client's work because "they know better." It is 
just not done. Apprentices unable to cure themselves of such 
rashness will forever remain apprentices. 

Guild members do tutor nonmusicians, and do give their 
own concerts, many now being performed at New Olamn's 
moderate amphitheater. Among Waterdeep's wealthier 
inhabitants, hosting (and sponsoring) such concerts of an 
evening is a popular pastime. 

Certain members of this guild create instruments of qual 
ity known throughout the Realms (especially a number of 
craftsmen of the Crommor noble clan). Guild members 
have a standing contract with the Lords to provide the sig 
nal-horns (also known as "war horns" or "battle trumpets") 
for the guard. 

7. The Dutogsujeep&is' Guild 

Master: Zulgoss Helberad (CG hm P2 of Lathander) 
Headquarters: Muleskull Tavern, Ship Street, Dock Ward 
(D21) 

Livery: Cap with red and orange feathers 


Entrance: 1 gp; by application to the Elder Dungsweepers- 
6 senior members-their decision is absolute, but may 
be questioned 1 year after being made or reversed 
Dues: 1 gp/year 
Contact: the Master 

This is a poor guild, consisting of those who clean the 
streets (and, for a fee, the stables of others) in Waterdeep. 
Normally, they do not do sewer work, the province of 
another guild, but the city, for security reasons, reserves the 
right when necessary to contact the Master of this guild to 
hire guild members to help in such work (by the day; the 
city pays 5 silver pieces to the worker and 3 silver pieces to 
the guild, per worker). 

The Dungsweepers have a traditional right to "glean 
the sweepings," keeping anything discarded for their 
own use. Obvious valuables are to be turned in to the 
Master for sale, the individual sweeper receiving half the 
sale value and the guild the other half. Guild members 
bring their sweepings to Fishgut Court, where large wag 
ons provided by the guild take the refuse once per day 
under guard by a mounted patrol of fourteen guardsmen, 
to the "Rat Hills," a refuse dump south of the City (see 
Chapter Four of the Campaign Guide for more). Prospec 
tive smugglers should note that the guardsmen inspect 
the wagons and their loads carefully as they are being 
filled and emptied, and as they re-enter the City, look 
ing underneath and with an attendant low-level mage 
employing detect magic and detect invisible. There is little 
interest in joining this guild, as few fancy the working 
conditions. Despite its work and its poverty, this guild 
can be quite influential when the Master gets upset 
about something. He can quietly threaten to withhold 
guild services, or dump the dung in specified (embarrass 
ing and inconvenient) areas, such as in front of a food 
market, festhall, or tavern. Wisely for all involved, the 
Master uses this power sparingly. 

8. The FeLLocuship of Bouuerzs and 
FleTcheRs 

Master: Halassiter Ahrlan-Master of the Bow (LG hm 
FI 6) 

Headquarters: The Citadel of the Arrow, Burnt Wagon 
Way, Trades Ward (T10) 

Livery: White jackets or cloaks with red diagonal stripes 
Entrance: 5 gp to join; readily accepts new members; reg 
istry only at headquarters 



Dues: 8 sp/month 

Contact: Zorondar "the Nimble" Riautar (LN hm F8, STR 
& CHA 16, DEX 18); Riautar's Weaponry, The High 
Road, Trades Ward (T18) 

This guild is "free and easy" in its outlook. Its members 
are predominantly young, and not overly concerned 
with cutthroat competition. There's enough demand for 
their wares to keep all members busy, and the guild has a 
respected inspection program (to ensure shafts are 
straight, fletches secure, and heads of sharp, symmetrical 
construction, resulting in flights true to aim) that, in 
turn, guarantees that nonguild bowyers and fletchers will 
never command a substantial share of business. This 
guild has the exclusive contract to produce the large 
shafts fired by the deck heavy crossbows of the Water- 
deep guard's rakers. 

9. The FeLLoujsbtp of CakToks 
AhJd CoacbmeM 

Master: Jasril Malakar-Master Carter (NE hm FO) 
Headquarters: The Road House, Carters' Way, Southern 
Ward (SI 3) 

Livery: Dark blue cloaks and long-peaked caps, with silver 
trim 

Entrance: 25 gp (for the owner of a coach or more than one 
conveyance), or 10 gp (for the owner of a single cart or 
litter); by application to the Master (few are refused) 
Dues: 5 sp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild is an association for all native Waterdhavians 
who own carts, wagons, coaches, litters, and winter sleighs 
and sledges, used in their business as a direct source of 
income. Most nobles and many wealthy individuals possess 
their own private coaches and litters, without being guild 
members. Woolmen and other merchants who use their 
own wagons to carry their own goods, but do not as a rule 
rent them out for the use of others, also need not be guild 
members. The Lords strictly forbid any efforts to restrict 
ownership of such conveyances within the city to the Lords 
on one hand and members of this guild (only) on the other. 
In recent years, guild members have stopped trying to get a 
legal monopoly; they are presently all much too busy trying 
to keep up with all the business of moving the goods and 
persons of Waterdhavians and visitors hither and yon 
within the city walls. 


Most major caravan companies operating overland in the 
North and to the Inner Sea lands have representatives in 
Waterdeep who are guild members, but the lowliest carter 
has the same guild rights as these, which include freedom 
from search by the watch save by express orders of the Lords 
or a Magister. The guard, however, can search guild mem 
bers' wagons and persons at will, and in practice, the watch 
merely calls on the guard in the event of any dispute. 

The operations and jurisdiction of this guild do not 
extend over water -harbor conveyances are in the 
province of the Watermen, another guild. The typical 
"cheapest" carrying fare is 1 copper piece for a ride in an 
open trotting-cart, or two-wheel rickshawlike covered taxi, 
holding up to two persons and pulled by one or two per 
sons, anywhere within the city walls, for up to half an hour. 

1 0. The FeLLo<jusb)p of IwKJkeepeRs 

Master: Brathan Zilmer-Master of Hospitality (LG hm F6; 
STR & INT & WIS & CHA 16), proprietor of The 
Pampered Traveler Inn, at the corner of Selduth Street 
& The Street of Bells, Castle Ward (Cll) 

Headquarters: Fellowship Hall, Waterdeep Way, Castle 
Ward (C39) 

Livery: None 

Entrance: 25 gp (by majority vote of the membership) 

Dues: 20 gp/year 
Contact: the Master 

This organization is one of the oldest of all the guilds of 
Waterdeep, and one of the most relaxed. Formed long 
ago as a means of protection (all the innkeepers together 
hiring a group of heavily-armed bodyguards that none of 
them could individually afford to stop drunken tavern- 
goers from returning to inns and getting into fights or 
destroying property, and to control noisy activity late at 
night), the guild now functions primarily as a means of 
sharing information. News of thieves, con-artists, 
brawlers, mages with urges to let off spells, and other 
"problem patrons" who are making the rounds from inn 
to inn is shared among members, speedily. The guild also 
arranges discount prices on ale, linens, laundering, and so 
on by placing orders in bulk for its members. Once every 
nine nights, the Fellowship Hall is opened by the Master 
as an inn-with dining and sleeping facilities-for mem 
bers only, so that they can enjoy the comforts of an inn 
without being the hosts. 



11. The FeL louoshlp of Salterzs, 
Packens, and Jolnens 

Master: Rahannsoz Burihildar (LN(E) hm FO) 

Headquarters: Shippers' Hall, Oar Alley, Dock Ward (D28) 
Livery: Yellow cloaks and high-peaked caps with a black- 
spoked carriage wheel on the breast and center brim, 
with a black sail curved around it 
Entrance: 5 gp; acceptance only by the Master 
Dues: 3 sp/month 

Contact: Baerlos Dunthar (N hm FO), Shippers' Hall 

This guild employs many young boys as runners, to keep its 
constantly-moving members in contact with each other 
and with the Master at Shippers' Hall. Salters, packers, and 
joiners are the professionals at preparing goods for shipping 
long distances. Their fees vary: So much per cargo, depend 
ing upon how much is to be packed (and how difficult the 
task is, measured in terms of the time it will necessarily 
take) and the cost of the packing materials. Joiners make 
shipping crates out of finished lumber after the salters (who 
employ brine, salt, and many other preservatives, to protect 
perishable goods such as meat or fish) and packers have 
wrapped (in cotton, canvas, hide, or even clay, baked hard) 
and prepared goods for travel. Guildmembers travel about 
Waterdeep in response to orders sent in to Shippers' Hall 
by various merchants, packing goods (especially delicate or 
perishable items) for travel out of Waterdeep-although 
much of their work is in the docks area. Almost everything 
carried on shipboard, if not already in a barrel, does better 
crated than not. An hour's crating by two Fellowship mem 
bers might suffice to prepare the entire belongings of one 
adventurer for sea travel, in one readily-opened chest (for 
items used often) and three to five large crates, and would 
cost a total of 3 gold pieces for the labor and materials. 
Members of this guild do not stack or carry crates they have 
finished, but go on to another job. A client must hire mem 
bers of The Fellowship of Carters and Coachmen, or the 
Watermen, to move such items to the conveyance they will 
travel in. The guild maintains stocks of packing materials 
for its members (not all clients provide such). 

12. The fishmonger' Fellowship 

Master: Aybrauve Haltorel-Master Fishmonger (CN hm 
F3) 

Headquarters: Seaswealth Hall, Seaswealth Hall Wharf, 
Dock Ward (D39) 

Livery: Silver caps, with blue eyes upon either side, or 


sashes of silver with a single blue eye, worn hanging 
straight down from the left shoulder 
Entrance: 5 gp 
Dues: 2 gp/year 
Contact: the Master 

This poor, friendly, informal Fellowship is run by a 
retired fisherman, Aybrauve "Farfisher," as he was known 
of old, who buys fresh fish from fishermen docking in the 
harbor. The fishermen themselves (including the large 
fleet owned by the Phull noble family) are not members 
of this guild. Fishing boats that dock at Seaswealth Hall's 
wharf to load or unload fish are exempted from the city's 
docking fee, and thus, many fishermen never tie up any 
where else at Waterdeep's docks (or they anchor in the 
harbor, and swim or ferry ashore to avoid the fee. 
Aybrauve sorts, ices, and sends their catches (eels, crabs, 
and fish of all sorts) to the stalls of various guild members 
by means of fish carts run by his boys, all over the City. 
The watch observes the progress of these carts closely to 
prevent theft of the fish from the boys. 

Guild members can return spoiled, unsold wares at the 
end of the day for 1 copper piece per bucket. Aybrauve sells 
these spoils to the Farmer-Grocers for fertilizer. 

15. The Guild of Apothecaries & 
Physicians 

Master: Unthril Zond-Master Physic (LN hm W(I)3) 
Headquarters: The House of Healing, The High Road, 
North Ward (N51) 

Livery: Cloaks and tunics (never caps) of black, gray, and 
white bands, with a large white diamond, bordered in 
gray with the long points vertical, on chest and back 
Entrance: 50 gp; acceptance by the Master only 
Dues: 10 gp/year (member), 5 gp/year (apprentice) 

Contact: the Master 

This is one of the richest guilds in Waterdeep, and has a 
somewhat checkered history. On several occasions, various 
of its members have been implicated in smuggling, fraudu 
lent investment affairs, and similar instances of criminally 
imprudent investments of their monies. No doubt some of 
their fellows (who have not been caught) remain rich and 
with shady connections. This guild has also been at odds 
with the Lords as a group. Repeatedly the guild has tried to 
have all nonmember medical practitioners (including all 
clerics) banned from practicing in Waterdeep, so they 



43 



would have to join the guild or cease providing aid to the 
sick (eliminating any competition). The Lords have strenu 
ously resisted such efforts, executing on two occasions 
members of this guild who arranged assassination attempts 
upon the life of Piergeiron. 

Despite the faults and politics of its members, the guild 
does provide services of high quality. It maintains a "For 
mulary" in its headquarters (open to members only) that 
records agreed-upon formulae for many drugs and other 
medicinal remedies. It also keeps in stock some of the 
rarest ingredients needed to make these medicines, deal 
ing with far-faring sea captains, traveling merchants, and 
caravan leaders to gain these from the far reaches of the 
Realms. Medical aid in Waterdeep is expensive; an exam 
ination is only 1 gold piece, but most drugs are in the 1-8 
gold pieces per bottle range (a bottle usually contains 
3-6 doses, most often 4), and medical attendance, with 
nursing, splints, dressings, emergency medicines, and the 
like, costs 10-20 gp/ day, based on the ability of the 
patient (in the estimation of the guild members 
involved) to pay. 

DMs must determine the effectiveness of such medicines 
on a case-by-case basis; generally, poisons and fevers can be 
neutralized if treatment begins in time. Diseases and para 
sitic infestations can be held at bay, but rarely fully cured 
by such means (although medicines may buy time for nat 
ural healing and other means to work). Most physicians 
can provide overnight care of dressing, bandaging, drugs, 
sustenance, and therapy that is able to restore 2-7 (ld6 + 1) 
lost hit points, but only if a patient rests for at least three 
days afterwards. 

14. The Guild of Bixtchens 

Master: Kellatarn Nander-Master Butcher (NE hm F2) 
Headquarters: The Butchers' Guildhall, The Way of the 

Dragon, Dock Ward (D47) 

Livery: Crimson cloaks with purple lining 
Entrance: 25 gp 
Dues: 3 gp/month 

Contact: Morathin "Hooks" Belmonder - Second Knife 

(LN hm F0, STR 17, DEX 17)) Belmonder's Meats, The 

High Road, Trades Ward (T23) 

This guild represents Waterdeep's butchers: Those who 
slaughter, and cut up for sale, all manner of livestock, from 
ankheg to yeti (cattle and hogs are more common, 
although it should be noted that people in the North, 


including Waterdeep, have a taste for horseflesh). Guild 
law ensures that meat is properly bled, hung, and smoked 
or seasoned in certain ways, so that it is as clean and in as 
good condition as possible, and without exception, the 
butchers who are in business in Waterdeep are guild mem 
bers. The Lords forbid formal price-fixing by the guild, but 
all meat is fairly expensive and similarly priced, being 
slightly cheaper in the docks area and slightly more expen 
sive in the wealthy neighborhoods. 

Apprentice butchers pay no guild dues, but are direct 
employees of a member butcher. Most apprentices, seeing 
how profitable the business is, can't wait to leave their 
poorly paid positions, pay the stiff entrance fee, and pass a 
rigorous examination of their skills by the Master Butcher. 
This guild also buys the occasional cargo of exotic meat (or 
slaughterable beasts) from ships, at bargain prices, reselling 
such goods among the guild members at substantial savings 
to the individual butchers, who may pass the savings on to 
their customers if they wish, but are not bound to do so. 
Most butchers wisely offer real bargains on such occasions, 
earning the goodwill of their clientele, and encouraging 
them to sample and acquire new (and often expensive) 
tastes in meat. 

15. The Guild of Chdbjdlerzs & 
LdmplighTeizs 

Master: Ormbras Delzord-Master of the Flame (LG hm 
F0) 

Headquarters: The House of Light, Scroll Street, Trades 
Ward (T29) 

Livery: Black caps with a gold flame device on both sides of 
the head (and, for ceremonies only, black tunics with a 
gold flame inside a gold circle on the breast) 

Entrance: 5 gp, upon acceptance by the Master (who keeps 
the membership limited in size) 

Dues: 3 sp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This is the only guild in Waterdeep whose members are 
predominantly youths. Aside from the Master and six 
senior (adult male) members, three of whom act as a 
mobile protection squad for the younger members, all 
guild members are youngsters. By day, they all make can 
dles (mostly of tallow) at the House of Light, and repair 
lamps. By night, they run about the city with glow pots, 
tongs, and reach-poles, lighting lamps for the city (on 
contract, which provides the guild with its daily bread- 




44 






and-butter money) and for private individuals, usually 
nobles. Guild members also sell candles, and, for a fee, 
will guide the way (or provide light for a traveler who 
knows the way) through the city by night. Most such 
boys and girls return often to the House of Light to give 
their monies to the Master, for all know what a tempting 
target a "lighter" clinking with coins is to thieves, 
drunks, other youths, and ruffians. A fistful of coins 
wrapped in a shirt or other cloth makes a handy sap. All 
lighters are trained to use such an improvised weapon 
and cry the alarm if attacked. 

16. The Guild of Fihje Cdizverzs 

Master: Malutt Mauksoun-First Master Carver (CN hm 
F5) 

Headquarters: House of the Fine Carvers, The High Road, 
Castle Ward (C21) 

Livery: Royal blue cloaks with red and brown lines as bor 
ders 

Entrance: 10 gp (member); 3 gp (prentice) 

Dues: 4 gp/year (member); 2 gp/year (prentice) 

Contact: Dannath Lisosar-Second Master Carver (LE hf 
F0), Patient Fingers Finework, Sleepers' Walk, Trades 
Ward (T20) 

Twenty-six Master Carvers and 73 Prentice Carvers make 
up this guild, which aids its members in many ways. 
Notably, it procures shipments of fine carving wood such 
as felsul-root, suthwood, and zalantar from far Chult and 
from the South via Tharsult. It sells "prentice pieces" 
(inferior or damaged work) to merchant captains heading 
south, where some pieces will sell for their curiosity, 
others because of the type of wood used, and some as 
mementoes of the savage North. The guild also arranges 
standard carving-tool sizes and qualities with the two 
smithing guilds, who make the chisels, knives, and 
gouges used by Carvers, and with the Jewelers' Guild, 
source of the best fine sandpaper. The guild also arranges 
large jobs (such as all the benches for congregations in a 
new temple, or the paneling and relief-carving of an 
entire mansion or castle) by lining up the needed Master 
Carvers and giving them Prentice Carvers to learn on the 
job, at a price of 1 gold piece per Prentice per day. Master 
Carvers earn 2 gold pieces daily. 

This year has been good to the Guild of Fine Carvers. 
In recent years, cleverly-carved wooden toys made by 
guildmembers have gained greatly in popularity in the 


City of Splendors as gifts, so much so that the guild now 
operates a toyshop on Trader's Way from which to sell 
their wares. With the creation of the new temple to 
Oghma in Castle Ward, nearly half of the Master 
Carvers and two-thirds of the Prentice Carvers are cur 
rently employed there in the renovations of the older 
buildings, adding decorative moldings and carvings suit 
able for the temple. 

17. The Guild of Gldssblouoeizs, 
GlAzieizs, & Speculum-mdkeizs 

Master: Maersar Rillithar-Master Specular (LG hm W4) 
Headquarters: The House of Crystal, Copper Street, North 
Ward (N46) 

Livery: Pink cloaks or robes with a large white circle on the 
breast 

Entrance: 20 gp; acceptance by majority vote of the entire 
membership 

Dues: 15 gp/year (member); 9 gp/year (apprentice) 

Contact: Jhalassan Thond - Speaker for the Guild (N hf 
F0), Thond Glass and Glazing Shop, Sleepers' Walk, 
Trades Ward (T24) 

This guild is a small, highly professional organization whose 
members take care to give fast, efficient, polite service, 
although glass is not cheap. While a simple, stoppered flask 
may only cost 1 copper piece, replacing a pane of glass runs 
from 4 copper pieces for a four-inch-square pane up to 6 
gold pieces for a four-foot-square pane. Sets of bottles of 
uniform size, thickness, and hue are more expensive than 
"odd bottles." The guild procures the finest sand (from cer 
tain beaches in the Tashalar and in Tethyr) for the use of 
its members in making glass, and provides emergency 
equipment and glass stocks for their use. 

A guild member convicted of deliberately breaking 
glass in place not belonging to him in any building in 
Waterdeep, without permission of the owner, or hiring 
someone else to do so (such as gangs of street urchins 
armed with rocks), is fined by the Magisters and expelled 
from the guild by the Master Specular. Such a miscreant 
can later be voted back into the guild by the member 
ship, upon subsequent reapplication (and payment of 
another "entrance fee"). 

For many years, this guild was involved in an acrimo 
nious dispute with the Watchful Order of Magists & Pro 
tectors over which guild would make crystal balls -a 
dispute that still causes grumbling long after the Lord's 


45 




Court ruling of twenty winters past: Anyone (including the 
Glassblowers) can create the crystal balls to the specifica 
tions noted by the client mages, but the balls' enchant 
ments can only be enspelled by individual, private mages 
working for themselves (not under hire by any guild, 
including the Watchful Order). 

This guild also makes many spectacles and magnifying 
glasses, typically costing 5-10 gold pieces each. Any full 
member of the guild has the skill to grind and polish a glass 
lens to a particular strength and focus. 

18 . The Guild of STonocuTCoizs, 
Masows, PoTXerzs, & TiLe-makers 

Master: Buirholdan Skordar-Master Stoneworker (LG hm 
F0, STR 17) 

Headquarters: Builders' Hall, Coach Street, Southern Ward 
(Sll) 

Livery: Gray cloaks and caps with an orange pickaxe, han 
dle vertical and blade at the top 
Entrance: 30 gp; upon examination by the Master 
Dues: 5 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This respected, busy guild has over 200 members (most of 
whom employ three to twelve assistants), some of whom 
quarry stone, some of whom cut, dress, and lay stone, and 
some of whom make clay or earthenware vessels or tiles, 
and lay tiles. 

Constantly busy on the rooftops of Waterdeep, where 
tile is slowly replacing thatch (which rots too quickly) and 
boards (which too easily catch fire when sealed with pitch, 
and too readily leak water inside, and rot, when not), mem 
bers of this guild also build most of the city's new buildings. 
The Lords frown on dwelling-places newly built entirely of 
timber, and restrict such structures to one story with a loft. 
Most buildings are now multistory, as Waterdeep has filled 
in almost all of the available space within the walls, and is 
now expanding upward. 

Stone is cut and hauled from the seacoast crags north 
of Waterdeep, and brought by ship from Port Llast and 
from Mirabar, where dwarves tunneling for new ores have 
found it very rewarding to break up the rubble they used 
to toss aside into regular, rectangular blocks and sell 
them for 1 copper piece each. That becomes 2 copper 
pieces a block in Waterdeep, and 3 copper pieces a block 
when a guild member builds a structure. Demolition of 
an existing structure on the same site is free if the guild 


member is allowed to keep what he can salvage of the 
stone. Repairs to, or building onto, an existing structure 
costs 10 gold pieces per guild member per day, plus 10 
gold pieces expenses (lunches) per day, plus material 
costs (3 copper pieces a block; 5 copper pieces for marble, 
obsidian, or other "finestone" that requires a smooth pol 
ish), plus 3 gold pieces per day per assistant. Most such 
crews include five to eight assistants. 

IP. The Guild of TizusTed 
PeuoTerzerzs aw d Casters 

Master: Dunbold Laraeikan-High Artisan (LG hm F5) 
Headquarters: Pewterers' and Casters' Guild Hall, The High 
Road, Castle Ward (C34) 

Livery: White sleeveless surcoats and aprons with the green 
silhouette of a tankard, handle to the viewer's right, 
beneath a bell 

Entrance: 20 gp; upon acceptance by the Master 
Dues: 1 gp/month 

Contact: Baerhar Surtlan-Voice of the Guild (CN hm 
F0), Surtlan's Metalwares, River Street, Trades Ward 
(T40) 

This guild has over 400 members, those who cast (rather 
than forge) items from metal. The guild livery depicts 
their two most popular products: a tankard and a bell. 
Bowls and hooks are probably the next most produced 
items. Prices in the Player's Handbook provide a guide for 
the DM in improvising the costs of such wares. The guild 
buys the raw materials, and mixes a basic white metal 
mixture which it sells to its members cheaply (1 copper 
piece for a foot-long, three-inch-high and wide bar) as the 
basis for such castings, but members like to add their own 
"secret ingredients" to make their products superior. The 
"trusted" in the guild title refers to the fact that guild 
members will melt things down for recasting without 
query or comment. Precious metals are rarely handled by 
this guild; gold- and silver-work are the purview of the 
Jewelers' Guild and the Splendid Order of Armorers, 
Locksmiths, and Finesmiths. 

20. The Guild of WaTeRmew 

Master: Zzundar Thul-Master of the Harbor (guild title, 
not a city rank or position) (CG hm F0) 

Headquarters: Watermens' Hall, Dock Street, Dock Ward 
(D43) 

Livery: Blue shoulder-raincloaks, white shapeless hats 





46 



Entrance: 10 gp; upon acceptance by the Master 
Dues: 5 sp/month 

Contact: Jaster Thul -Guild Spokesman (LN hm F0), 
Watermens' Hall 

This guild is one of the busiest and most important in the 
City of Splendors. Its members keep the harbor clear of all 
litter (discarded crates, discarded seaweed from fishing nets, 
discarded bodies, etc.), run myriad small skiffs and ferries 
about the harbor and up and down the seashore of Water- 
deep (for hire), and load and unload almost all of the ships 
that dock in Waterdeep's busy harbor. This last mentioned 
work is done for a standard fee of 1 silver piece per man per 
hour, doubled if the cargo is dangerous (such as live, wild 
beasts, even if caged; incendiaries; exotic, volatile oils; or 
diseased or insane creatures). Watermen are allowed to 
keep "found" items from harbor floating debris; they can 
also keep unclaimed cargo after seven months, following a 
legal announcement of the cargo's discovery, unless the 
owner identifies it to the satisfaction of a Magister. (If the 
owner does not wish to take possession of the cargo within 
the seven months, the city stores it, granting the Water 
man involved a 1-gold-piece "finder's fee," which he recov 
ers from the owner later.) Watermen do not pilot large 
boats into or out of the harbor, but do work the clock 
around, loading and unloading vessels, and ferrying people 
to and fro, collecting their fees constantly as they work. 
(On highly profitable days, many Watermen pilot a boat 
over the deep part of the harbor, and drop in a copper or 
two to appease the sea gods.) All Watermen know the cur 
rents, depths, and backwaters of the harbor well, and the 
locations of various sewer effluents. 

21. The Jecuelerzs Guild 

Master: Stromquil Halazar - Master Jeweller (CE hm 
W(I)6), Halazar's Fine Gems, Shield Street, Sea Ward 
($60) 

Headquarters: The House of Gems, Gem Street, Castle 
Ward (C44) 

Livery: Deep purple robes with a triangular, crown-cut 
white gem, point downward, on the breast, purple hats 
with white plumes 
Entrance: 40 gp 
Dues: 25 gp/year 

Contact: Jhauntar Olmhazan-Gentleman Speaker for the 
Jewelers (NE hm F0), Olmhazan's Jewels, The High 
Road, Castle Ward (C29) 


Members of this small, tightly-knit and secretive guild 
are wallowing in money. They all have bodyguards (the 
Lords limit such private forces of non-nobles to 16 armed 
men at most, as they do to all guild members and other 
merchants resident in the city) and take elaborate secu 
rity precautions, hiring dwarven artisans and powerful 
mages to devise traps to protect their gold and their 
gems. They also hire mercenary groups and adventurers 
privately, to bring them precious cargoes of uncut gems 
(sometimes stolen from the South) from afar, and are 
closely watched by the Red Sashes and the Shadow 
Thieves. At least two powerful guild members are agents 
of the Shadow Thieves. 

This guild conducts quiet but relentless vendettas against 
suspected gem thieves in Waterdeep. DMs should bear this 
in mind if PCs fall afoul of any guild member. Members of 
this guild will, however, buy and sell-with no questions 
asked - gems (cut or uncut), jewelry, and precious metals, 
fine chain, and wire used in their work. They also cut, pol 
ish, and mount gems, repair or reset jewelry, and appraise 
jewelry for other merchants. 

22. The Laum berneris' Guild 

Master: Jeldeth Khondar-Master Launderer (NE hm F0) 
Headquarters: The House of Cleanliness, Slipstone Street, 
Trades Ward (T22) 

Livery: White caps and cloaks with an open human hand, 
fingers uppermost and spread, in silver on the breast of 
the cloak and center peak of the cap 
Entrance: 5 gp; registry at the House of Cleanliness (none 
refused) 

Dues: 1 gp/month 

Contact: Ulraen Caulbor-Soap Master (LG hm F0), The 
House of Cleanliness 

Members of this guild are an overworked, underpaid lot, 
who labor around the clock (most are family businesses, 
with the family members working in shifts) to wash the 
dirty garments of Waterdhavians in open-topped tubs full 
of boiling water and scented soap, and usually stirred with 
long poles (the "honest" use for a ten-foot pole). Everyone 
buys his or her own scent: some use cider, some use wine, 
some use straight perfume, and some use strong herbs, but 
the guild provides various soaps for its members at cheap 
rates (1 gold piece per lo-gallon barrel). These soaps are 
sludgy mixtures, not hard bars or dry flakes. 

A launderer never guarantees that your garment will 





47 



survive cleaning, and Waterdhavians do not expect per 
fection (nobles usually have their own servants launder 
difficult or delicate garments, and buy new garments for 
themselves often). Washing can be done while you wait 
(2 silver pieces per garment; it is put back on wet, and 
dries on the body), or overnight (1 silver piece per gar 
ment). Most launderers have numbered bins (with 
wooden tags) as a clothes-filing system-no tag, no laun 
dry unless you pay 2 gold pieces or more for a new tag 
and your garments. Unless a launderer remembers you, 
there is also a wait of three or four days in case you're 
mistaken and someone else comes with the tag to claim 
the same clothes. 

All cleaning must be paid for when the clothes are left, 
not when they are picked up; this is due to nobles who 
refused to pay for cleaning, every time, on the grounds that 
it was not satisfactory. Magisters grew tired of the constant 
disputes and established this rule. 

A favorite trick of mercenaries coming into Waterdeep 
used to be to find some drunken patron in a tavern about 
their size, follow him and beat him up, take his tag and 
money, and promptly claim his clothes for their own. This 
practice was one of the reasons that the watch escorts 
many tavern-goers home, but the watch can do nothing 
about those gamblers who wager their laundry tags in card, 
dart, or dice games when all their money is gone. 

.23. The League of BaskeTmakeRs 
& W)akeizujonkeris 

Master: Felthauvin Mirrarmul-Master Worker (LG hm 
FO) 

Headquarters: The League Office, Wall Way, Trades Ward 

(T14) 

Livery: Cloaks of gold, with red and purple diagonal lines 

forming a cross-hatch pattern on breast and back 
Entrance: 15 gp; upon acceptance by the Master 
Dues: 3 sp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This poor, quiet guild has many members all around the 
city (as basketmaking can be carried on with ease in pri 
vate dwellings, above the shops), usually 1,400 or more. Its 
Master, aided by his family, makes a tidy living providing 
guild members with supplies for their work: trimmed and 
bundled rushes and willow-wands. Master for life, Felthau 
vin owes his position to his unmatched skill at his chosen 
craft and his resulting ability to train members and would- 


be members; he can also finish work for them in emergen 
cies, perfectly matching their various styles. Felthauvin is a 
major landlord in the City, and has become personally 
influential as a result (thus able to deal as an equal with 
many far wealthier and more essential guilds), and able to 
bankroll the guild in difficult times. 

Felthauvin has many young sons and grandsons who 
"run the bundles" up stairways and alleys for him, and, as a 
result, know who lives where in Waterdeep better than any 
other person in the city except a member of the watch. 
(However, even the watch members only know two or 
three neighborhoods that well; Felthauvin and his "run 
ners" collectively know the entire city!) 

24. The League of 
Sk)wweRs & Tasjsjerzs 

Master: Orgul Telethar -Leaguemaster (LE hm FO), 
Telethar Leatherworks, off Tower Trail by the harbor. 
Dock Ward (D50) 

Headquarters: League Hall, Tower Trail, Dock Ward (D46) 
Livery: Leather armbands (almost a foot long, worn on 
upper left arm) of gleaming brown, with a red diamond 
representing a hide cut into it, a black skinning knife 
raised up in the center of this diamond 
Entrance: 15 gp 
Dues: 5 gp/year 

Contact: Ilimar Chantreth-League Spokesman (LN hm 
FO), League Hall 

This guild represents those who skin each animal slaugh 
tered by a butcher. Usually the animal is sold to the 
butcher, and the skinner pays the butcher 3-10 silver 
pieces per skin, depending on its size and condition. Rare 
types of skins, or skins in rare hues, may cost a skinner up 
to 1 gold piece. The tanners then process the hides to 
produce leather, suede, vellum, and similar byproducts, 
which they sell to other guilds for the making of cloth 
ing, footwear, aprons, pouches, war harness (leather 
armor), and the like. Traditionally, this guild has made 
belts, scabbards, baldrics, straps, and suspenders itself. 
Other guilds consider the wares of this guild to be some 
what overpriced, but everyone needs their goods, and no 
independents have found it economical to continue 
operating outside the guild, so nothing is done to correct 
the situation (nor is it extreme enough to demand the 
Lords' interference). 


V 



25. The LoyaL Oizdeiz 
of STizeeT Ldbonens 

Master: Kovran Helmses - Streetsmaster (N hm F2) 
Headquarters: The Streets Office of the Loyal Order, at 
Piergeiron's Palace, Castle Ward (A guild hall is under 
construction in Dock Ward on Dretch Lane with 
adjoining warehouses for stone storage.) 

Livery: Red caps, gray cloaks and tunics with red pickaxe 
on right breast (point high, handle down), red trim lines 
at hems and cuffs 

Entrance: 15 gp (member), 5 gp (prentice); acceptance by 
agreement of Streetsmaster and Council (five annually 
elected members) 

Dues: 3 gp/month (member); 1 gp/month (prentice) 

Contact: Reina Thrasim-Voice of the Streets (CG hf T3), 
Fetlock Court, Castle Ward 

The Loyal Order of Street Laborers was formed not by 
trade but by necessity and a Lords' Edict. Answering an 
outcry to aid the constant cart and foot traffic of the city 
(made difficult due to heavy precipitation for four consecu 
tive years), the Lords worked with the guild masters (and 
later, the full guild memberships) of the Cellarers' and 
Plumbers' Guild and the Guild of Stonecutters, Masons, 
Potters, & Tile-Makers, collecting over 200 craftsmen from 
both guilds and forming a guild for the express purpose of 
paving the major streets and avenues of the city and repair 
ing any damage to said paving. While in seeming contra 
diction to the customs of noninterference by the Lords and 
disavowing a guild whose interest overlapped another 
guild, this guild was created to prevent a war between the 
two guilds, whose interests overlapped here, and to prevent 
either guild from making huge profits off of a necessary 
demand by the Lords. The two original guilds now have no 
control over the street construction or repair; they have to 
act through the Loyal Order if they need a paved street 
tom up in the course of their work. 

Members of the Loyal Order are among the busiest workers 
in the city, with full members cutting, dressing, and laying 
stones for streets (whether smooth-paved or cobblestone) and 
prentices handling traffic detours, mortar mixing, the hauling 
of stones, and the leveling of streets during repairs or con 
struction. Prentices also handle the construction of corduroy 
roads under the supervision of a member Street Laborer; 
while the paved roads are sponsored by the Lords and fees 
collected from the nobles and the guilds, the corduroy roads 
(logs fitted cross-wise) are privately funded by nobles, busi 


nesses, and other individuals. Often, as in Trades Ward, a 
group of businesses along one street will pay to have the road 
built, and thereafter must pay for its yearly maintenance. 
Street planning and surveying is always jointly coordinated 
by Streetsmaster Kovran and Master Plumber Hilithimm, to 
ensure the maintenance of current access points to the sewers 
while creating or repairing roads. 

The hard work of this guild has paid off in the gratitude of 
the citizens (whose travel is now increased in speed and effi 
ciency and cleanliness) and in money: Fees are 12 silver 
pieces/day per prentice and 3 gold pieces/day per member, in 
addition to the cost of materials and 10 gold pieces for food and 
drink expenses. Work crews tend to have 10 to 12 members 
and an equal number of prentices on paved road construction, 
two members and 10 to 12 prentices on corduroy road con 
struction, or two members and three prentices on basic road 
repairs (either type). Road materials are provided by the Guild 
of Stonecutters (quarried stone and rubble) and agents in 
Amphail, Rassalanter, and Red Larch (timber for corduroy 
roads); the cost of the stone is undercut by the Lords' backing, 
reducing the Loyal Order's cost to 3 gold pieces per block. 

26. The MasTerc. Marzihjerzs' Guild 

Master: Jheldarr "Stormrunner" Boaldegg-First Mariner 

(LE hm F7, STR & INT16) 

Headquarters: Mariners' Hall, Cedar Street, Dock Ward 

(D44) 

Livery: Red hats with white plumes, red shoulder cloaks 
Entrance: 25 gp (none refused) 

Dues: 10 gp/year 
Contact: the Master 

This guild consists of all ship captains and merchant fleet 
owners who are based in, or who often put into. Water- 
deep. It represents their interests before the Lord's Court, 
provides them with piloting training into and around 
Waterdeep's harbor, maintains emergency warehouse space 
(and a "free" dock -that is, the guild pays all docking 
fees-with room for three vessels to load or unload from 
the guild warehouses), and provides accommodations and a 
private bar for visiting members at Mariners' Hall. (Though 
listed as a guild hall, the main floor of Mariner's Hall has 
full tavern facilities.) 

Ship captains pilot themselves into Waterdeep's harbor, or 
signal from offshore that they require a guild pilot, by lower 
ing all sails and running a red signal pennant up the main 
mast. Aside from the standard city docking fee, such pilots 




49 



are provided free by the city, but the pilot is always accompa 
nied by a guard patrol, who inspect the ship's crew and cargo 
on the way into the harbor to ensure that no hostile or illicit 
activities are being brought into Waterdeep. 

This guild has a long-standing, continual rivalry with the 
Order of Master Shipwrights, but cannot afford to maintain 
its own ship repair facilities. It does keep emergency stocks 
of rope and sail that guild members in a hurry can purchase 
at bargain rates instead of dealing in the city for custom- 
made sails The guild also provides its members with fresh 
livery upon payment of their annual dues. 

.27. The MosT Cdizoful Oizdeiz of 
Skilled SmfTbs & MoTdlfongons 

Master: Hawkun Orsund - Master Hammer (N hm F6, 
STR 18) 

Headquarters: Metalmasters' Hall, the High Road, South 
ern Ward (S20) 

Liven/: Gray caps with black plumes, red tunics with a 
black vertical hammer, head uppermost, on the breast 
Entrance: 30 gp 
Dues: 20 gp/year 
Contact: the Master 

This guild represents the everyday blacksmiths who shoe 
horses and fashion such items as lamps, torch- and sign- 
brackets, gratings and barred window frames, fire-shields and 
other hearthware, and chains. They also make the simpler 
weapons, such as maces, hammers, and flails. The everyday 
pieces of metalwork, from needles and spikes to bootjacks, 
kitchen hooks, latches and hinges, to candlesticks, are the 
"bread-and-butter" work of this guild, whose members are 
always busy and who prosper steadily. This guild provides its 
members with cheap, readily-available supplies of raw metals, 
brought by the shipload from Mirabar and elsewhere, and 
makes, stocks, and inspects smithy tools for the convenience 
of its members, who may rent or buy such from the guild. 

Most guild members are strong (Strength scores of 16 
and up), have high Constitution scores (15 and up), and a 
high tolerance for heat and noise. For the unknowing, here 
is a point of etiquette: Never touch a smith's tools except 
by his leave, and state your requirements as requests, not 
demands, or you'll probably be told bluntly to take your 
business elsewhere. Members of this guild take pride in 
working quickly, in designing things with efficient ele 
gance, and in reproducing replacements to exactly match 
an original. DMs must devise prices for such smithywork 


according to the complexity and size of an item, judged 
against the item prices given in the Player's Handbook. 

28. The MosT DiVigobSt League of 
Satl-m dkotis dsjd Cotidujdisjorzs 

Master: Geladar Nithrim-League Master (CE hm F4) 
Headquarters: Full Sails (the League-run tavern and guild 
hall). Dock Street, Dock Ward (D35) 

Livery: White cloaks and caps, and sky-blue robes; on the 
breast of the robes, two darker blue wavy horizontal 
lines (waves), and three silver stars above them 
Entrance: 15 gp (none refused) 

Dues: 5 gp/year 

Contact: Jelhuld Alaer-Tavernmaster (CE hm F3), Full Sails 

The vast amounts of rope and many sails needed by the ships 
based in Waterdeep and those who call at its busy harbor are 
made by members of this guild, who use the collective buying 
and bargaining power of this guild to obtain canvas, hemp, 
and other needed supplies as cheaply as possible from other 
guilds and from outside Waterdeep. There are never enough 
skilled merchants in this guild to keep up with the demand 
for new rope and sails; apprentices work on repairing sails (for 
ships whose captains can't wait a week or more for new cus 
tom sails) until they are masters of their craft, and training 
them in sail design is then a simple matter. 

The guild takes pride in producing heavy-duty, long-lasting 
goods, although their wares are not cheap: A 100' coil of 
heavy sail-rope is 10 silver pieces; a 100' coil of thin, black, 
waxed cord, as strong as the sail rope but not for marine use, 
is 17 silver pieces. A simple lateen or square sail for small ves 
sels, of "standard" (not custom) dimensions, will cost 500 to 
700 gold pieces (30% less if the buyer is willing to wait sev 
eral months); a custom mainsail will cost 1,000 gold pieces. A 
full set of sails including a spare jib and mainsail for a mer 
chant ship will cost 2,000 gold pieces (4,000 gold pieces for a 
large or triple masted ship, more again if the vessel is even 
larger and uses more sail). Interested buyers should note that 
nonguild sailmakers usually sell no-guarantees sets of sails for 
half what the Guild charges (and the guilds' reputation for 
quality sails stands as a testament for their higher prices). 

29. The MosT EycelXebfC Otideti of 

Weavers Dyons 

Master: Lady Tresh Lanngolyn (LG hf F0) 

Headquarters: The House of Textiles, Nethpranter's Street, 
Trades Ward (T27) 




Livery: Rainbow-hue dyed overcloaks and overgowns 
Entrance: 30 gp 
Dues: 10 gp/year 

Contact: Mellor Rhagust-Speaker of the Order (LN hm 
F0), The House of Textiles 

This guild is rich and busy and offends few. Its wares are rea 
sonably priced and its dyes good-they bleed and stain little, 
and fade only slowly. Guild members will gladly dye garments 
to order, although patterns and devices must not mock, 
closely resemble, or duplicate the heraldic devices of the city. 
Lords, or nobles - a Lords' Edict on this point is strictly 
obeyed by the guild. Guilds, nobles, and others with a clear 
legal right to such designs may, of course, order work bearing 
them from this guild, a process involving a written request 
bearing as witness a Magister's (or Piergeiron's) signature. 

The Order has over 2,000 members, most human, and 
over half female. Its current master is head of the noble 
family Lanngolyn, and she takes care that members avoid 
controversy, shady dealings, and large expenses, all of 
which makes this guild of little interest to adventurers. 

50. The Oizderz of 
Cobbleizs & Coizv)seizs 

Master: Falloor Malthund-Senior Merchant (CN hm FO) 
Headquarters: Cobblers' & Corvisers' House, Soothsayers' 
Way, Trades Ward (T37) 

Livery: Gray cloaks or caps, with a brown human footprint 
(right foot, bare), toes uppermost, on the right shoulder 
or cap-front 

Entrance: 25 gp (member), by application to the Council of 
Senior Merchants (members of the guild who have been 
members for 15 continuous years, or more) 

Dues: 10 gp/year (members), 15 gp/year (apprentices) 
Contact: Darion Sulmest (Ln hm F0, INT & WIS 17, DEX 
18), Sulmest's Splendid Shoes & Boots, the High Road, 
North Ward (N49) 

This guild is a quiet, always busy, wealthy lot, who make 
and repair shoes, boots, and all forms of footwear, including 
thick-soled wooden clogs for use in rain and snow. This is 
not a profession for the lazy-Waterdeep's inhabitants keep 
members of this guild working hard, and always try to get 
their own shoes or boots mended (or made new) first, 
before all the others waiting, by paying extra, and promis 
ing more. When a dozen or so customers do this in quick 
succession, 'some guild members' shops get a little frantic. 


Most apprentices, however, watching the money-roll in and 
reflecting on their dues (apprentices pay more than mem 
bers), cannot wait to become full members, although the 
Council tries to keep active membership in the guild down 
to 100 persons. By guild law, each member can have up to 
nine-but no more-apprentices. 

Guild dues are among the other things used to place 
large orders each fall (when herd animals that cannot be 
fed over the winter are slaughtered) with the League of 
Skinners & Tanners for basic, dark brown, heavy-duty fin 
ished leather for use in the making of footwear by the guild. 
These annual orders are for tons of leather, are carefully 
guarded by both guilds, and the Order gets their leather at 
a bargain price in return for providing the League coffers 
with a regular, large sum to tide League members over each 
winter. Members of the Order are known to be either 
hoarders (vast amounts of treasure secured somewhere in 
the city) or investors, with their money in dozens of busi 
nesses or properties. (There's an old Waterdhavian saying, 
"Most landlords are corvisers; they know best when and 
how to give the boot.") 

51. The Onben of 
MasTerc. SbipcurdgbTs 

Master: Lord Kelvar Helmfast - Master Shipwright (CN 
hm F4), "The Old Captain" 

Headquarters: Shipwrights' House, Dock Street and 
Asteril's Way, Dock Ward (D19) 

Livery: Cloaks and robes of blue, dun, and red, in three 
broad vertical stripes 

Entrance: 30 gp; only upon acceptance by the Master 
(there is no room for new members at present) 

Dues: 15 gp/year 

Contact: Zabardan Barpar-Speaker for the Shipwrights 
(FO), Shipwrights' House 

This guild collectively owns the construction sheds and 
dry-docks of Waterdeep (except for guild member Amagus, 
who has his own, and allows the city and fellow guild mem 
bers to use it for a fee) where ships are built, although they 
have always been a small guild. Orlumbor's gigantic shops 
have always commanded the lion's share of Sword Coast 
shipbuilding, and the shops in Waterdeep are simply too 
small to lay the keels of the largest ships. The Order does a 
steady trade, however, producing and repairing the mer 
chant cogs and caravels that ply coastal waters. The master 
merchants of Mirabar who own their own ships in Luskan, 



51 


to bring their metals to Waterdeep, prefer the broad- 
beamed, massive cogs of Waterdeep's shipwrights over all 
other vessels for bringing their cargos safely through storms 
and with overly heavy loads to dock in the City of Splen 
dors. The base price for a new caravel is 6,000 gold pieces; 
a "fast caravel," a light, slim ship larger than its similar 
cousin and able to carry more sail (and thus run faster) is 
9,000 gold pieces. A cog, a shorter, broader, wallowing, 
slower and less elegant cargo ship, is 5,000 gold pieces. A 
"heavy cog" mentioned above is larger, can carry more sail, 
and has a reinforced hull (can break through thin ice and 
thus sail in the North a week or so before and after less 
sturdy ships, each winter) is 7,000 gold pieces. 

Unless such ships are heavily damaged or very old, they 
bring a "used" price of only 1,000 to 1,500 less. Guild mem 
bers sometimes salvage or refurbish old wrecks to make 
additional cash with relative ease and speed. 


3 2. The Onben of MasTeR 
TayloriS; Gloverzs, asjb Meizceizs 

Master: Alurra Tarbrossen-Lady Master of the Order (LE 
hef W5) 

Headquarters: Costumers' Hall, the High Road and Spend 
thrift Alley, Trades Ward (Til) 

Livery: White glove, arm, and half-cloak (one piece gar 
ment), decorated with blue and green sequins in a 
repeating pattern of interwoven thread, leading to a 
threaded needle picked out in sequins along the wearer's 
forearm; this is worn on the left arm, hand, and shoul 
der, and is removed to do work of any sort 
Entrance: 25 gp 
Dues: 12 gp/year 
Contact: the Lady Master 


WaTeR^havUK) Ships Table 


Ship Name 

Length 

Width 

Draught 

Crew 

Startup 

Reg. 

Sail 

Speed 

Max. 

Sail 

Speed 

Reg. 

Oar 

Speed 

Max. 

Oar 

Speed Armaments 

Caravel 

50' 

10' 

8' 

10 

5 rounds 

5 mph 

8 mph 

1 mph 

3 mph 

1 ballista (or nothing) 

Caravel, fast 

60' 

10' 

6' 

10 

4 rounds 

7 mph 

10 mph 

1 mph 

3 mph 

1 ballista 

Cog 

45' 

20' 

10' 

12 

1 turn 

5 mph 

7 mph 

y 2 mph IV 2 mph 

none 

Cog, heavy 

60' 

25' 

15' 

14 

1 turn 

3 mph 

5 mph 

Vi mph 

1 mph 

none 

Raker 

90' 

20' 

6' 

36 

4 rounds 

10 mph 

16 mph 

5 mph 

8 mph 

4 ballistae (2 fore. 

Striker 

60' 

10' 

4' 

44 

3 rounds 





2 aft); 4 fire-pot cata 
pults (amidships and 
aft); armored ram 




This busy guild has over 600 members, who import cloth 
and other supplies (such as thread), and use much of what 
other Waterdhavian guilds make (such as leather, textiles, 
carved and cast buttons, and needles) to make literally tons 
of clothing, of all sizes and fashions, from high-society 
ladies' party masks to the leather breeches of a smith. Every 
guild member has a personal specialty (such as gloves or 
gowns), and prices, speed of work, and durability vary 
widely. The guild serves mainly to save its members money 
by importing needed supplies in bulk. 

55. The Sdddlens 1 & 

HaRwess Mdkeizs' Guild 

Master: Deljassa Rammathor-Guildmistress High (NE hf 
T2), "Lady Wind" 

Headquarters: Saddlers' & Harness-Makers' Hall, Tulmas- 
ter's Street, Southern Ward (S6) 

Livery: None 

Entrance: 20 gp; acceptance by the Guildmistress High 
Dues: 7 gp/year 

Contact: the Guildmistress High 

This guild is led by a former thief and jockey who turned to 
breeding horses rather than racing them after several bad 
falls, and thence to making her own tack, eventually rising 
to head this guild. Deljassa has not been an active jockey 
or thief in over 15 years, and she is widely respected among 
the members of her own guild and among the guild masters 
of the city, as a shrewd and pleasant wheeler-dealer who 
gets what she wants (such as preferential treatment from 
the League of Skinners & Tanners for the leather her guild 
members need). 

54. The ScRtoeNefcs', 

Sc tubes', & Clenks' Guild 

Master: Dablor Zimmulstern-Guild Master (LE hm F0), 
Scribe rank: High Atlar 

Headquarters: The Zoarstar, Quill Alley, Trades Ward 
(T25) 

Liven/: Royal blue berets with silver quills on them 
Entrance: 10 gp 
Dues: 1 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild is a highly educated, professional group of men and 
women who letter signs, draw pictures (sometimes in front of a 
party audience, upon a noble's hiring), compose and write let 


ters, take dictation, design ornamental scripts, draw up legal 
tallies, and set down records, contracts, and accounts. Many 
guild members will even forge or counterfeit documents; these 
cost some very stiff fees-hundreds of gold pieces per docu 
ment-since the penalties are so severe: Expulsion from Guild 
and city for very serious cases, with amputation of fingers and 
thumbs added if the forgery is treasonous or inflammatory, in a 
manner that threatens the peace of the area. 

The Palace retains a dozen guild members at all times to 
transcribe a record of all said before it, and retains one 
scribe for each Magister (for the same task). The watch also 
employs guild members to draw likenesses of fugitives 
described by witnesses, so that watch officers can carry 
these sketches when on patrol. 

55. The Solemn Oizdeiz of 
Recognized f uizizieizs & 

Woolmew 

Master: Thoss Bhalein-Master of the Order (NE hm F0) 
Headquarters: Guild Hall of the Order, Waterdeep Way, 
Castle Ward (C36) 

Livery: Gray woolen cloaks trimmed with fur (winter), 
skullcaps of gray wool with a fur fringe (summer) 
Entrance: 25 gp fee upon application to the Master; 

refunded if application refused 
Dues: 2 gp/month 

Contact: Shalrin Meraedos - Gentleman Keeper of the 
Order (LN(E) hm F0), Meraedos Fine Furs, the High 
Road, North Ward (N48) 

This guild is rich, long established, and incredibly tight- 
fisted, becoming even more so as the guild master and 
the members grow older. Its members, all of old families, 
attempt to control all trade in their field that enters 
Waterdeep by ruthlessly outbidding independents. Sabo 
tage (such as mysterious warehouse fires or even high 
way banditry) is not unknown. The current Master, 
Thoss Bhalein, was elected from the guild ranks by the 
Order's members upon the death of his predecessor some 
30 winters ago, and he has let no one join the Order 
since he took office. He shows no sign of changing his 
views, even encouraging wealthy members of the Order 
to buy out weaker fellow members, to tighten the 
Order's control; in his 30 years as Master, Thoss has seen 
the order shrink by 25% (now having only 40 current 
members) but its controlled revenues have risen by 40%. 
Thoss will be master for life (unless he resigns his post. 


an almost unheard-of event; dying, bedridden Masters 
have often clung to their titles for years after real power 
has passed from their hands), and is presently 71 years 
old, but in remarkably good health. This Order is one of 
the most conservative in Waterdeep, and looks upon 
adventurers (and young, entrepreneurial merchants in 
any field) as dangerous, reckless brigands who, by their 
actions, threaten not only the good name of merchants 
everywhere, but the very stability of society. 

The "recognized" of the guild's title refers to the proud 
assertion that no member of the Order deals in second 
hand, doctored, or stolen wares, but is above reproach. This 
is largely true, but is a claim occasionally rendered a myth 
by certain unscrupulous guild members. 

36. The Splendid Otzdetz of 
Anmoizens, Locksmiths, awd 
BwesmfThs 

Master: Hallthor Duzmund - Master Smith (LG hm F12, 
STR 18(49), CON 18) 

Headquarters: The Metal House of Wonders, Belnimbra's 
Street and Gut Alley, Dock Ward (D3) 

Livery: Gray cloaks with a single blue star on the left 
shoulder 
Entrance: 35 gp 
Dues: 2 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild represents the most skilled smiths: Those 
able to craft weapons, shields, and armor superbly 
matched to the wielder and of lasting quality; the 
"finest quality" that mages enchanting weapons seek to 
find. Guild members can command the highest prices 
for their work, particularly for personalized weapons for 
adventurers and custom-designed locks and strong-doors 
for the vaults of merchants and nobles. Guild members 
also design and make ornaments of lasting beauty from 
wire and sculpted metal, such as the fantastic masks 
worn by many noble ladies of Waterdeep; metal birds 
that will flap their wings and trill if the hollow tails are 
blown through, as toys for the children of the rich; and 
elaborate party costumes of metal plates that can make 
the wearer appear to be a monster, for party or stage 
wear. Members of this guild also fashion signet rings and 
stamps for the guilds, noble families, and the Palace. 
(The Palace seal, the arms of the Lords of Waterdeep, 
was created by this guild.) 


Each guild member trains his or her apprentices for many 
years. Acquiring such skills is a full-time profession that 
does not allow adventurers to dabble and acquire skills 
thereby (the guild master's fighting level is a reflection of 
his intimate knowledge of the properties and handling of 
the weapons he makes). 

37. The STabLemAsTeRs' & 

Fa mzieizs Guild 

Master: Belihands Masker-Senior Master (LG hm FO) 
Headquarters: The Guild Paddock, Walltower Walk, Trades 
Ward (T34) 

Livery: Deep blue hats with white plumes 
Entrance: 15 gp 
Dues: 3 sp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild represents all who breed, train, capture, tame, 
house, and tend horses and other riding animals, including 
aerial steeds (but not aquatic creatures, lizards, or great cats), 
and sets standards for such care. The guild also provides its 
members with veterinary aid, and cheap rates on feed by buy 
ing in bulk. The guild maintains a registry of pedigrees and 
brands to discourage theft and aid the watch in tracing ani 
mals if they are stolen. Prices for guild members' mounts are 
given in the AD&D(r) 2nd Edition game rules. Such businesses 
do take exhausted mounts for a lesser, "trade-in" value. 

Guild member Jhalathan Ilzoond is considered the finest 
griffon-tamer in the city, but owns only one such steed 
himself, which is housed at Castle Waterdeep and hired by 
the guard. The guard is the largest owner of griffons in the 
city; it stables over 20 in the eyrie on Mount Waterdeep, 
and another six (plus Jhalathan's beloved "Firebeak") at 
the castle. There are perhaps three dozen known aerial 
steeds regularly in Waterdeep in the private hands of resi 
dents, including pegasi, hippogriffs, and wind steeds. Mem 
bers of this guild trained almost all of these. 

38. The STaTioneris' Guild 

Master: Azoulin Wolf wind -Master Stationer (NE hm FO) 
Headquarters: Stationers' Hall, the High Road and the Way 
of the Dragon, Trades Ward (T31) 

Livery: White robes, with a black quill pen on the breast 
Entrance: 15 gp 
Dues: 1 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild consists of those artisans who make both parch- 


merit paper and the cheaper rough-finished variety known 
in Waterdeep as "scrip." The guild also produces its own 
ink, blotters, colored waxes for seals, gilt ink for use in illu 
minating documents, metal pen nibs, and the like. It also 
imports many large feathers from the South for use as fine 
quill pens. All guild members have their own secret recipes 
for preparing special paper, but the guild does supply its 
members with fine parchment (made in Stationers' Hall) 
and the other products of their trade, at a discount. 

39. The SuKveyoris'j Map, & 
CbarcTmakeRs' Guild 

Master: Halaviir Touzoun-First Chartist (NE hem FO) 
Headquarters: The Map House, Waterdeep Way, Castle 
Ward (C40) 

Livery: Green robes with a crossed chalk and dividers on 
the breast, green hats with white plumes 
Entrance: 20 gp; acceptance by the Master 
Dues: 1 sp/month 

Contact: Doroun Lhaerzor-Speaker for the Guild (CN hm 
FO), the Map House 

The term "architect" is unknown in Waterdeep, though that 
type of work is not. Members of this guild design buildings 
and draw the required blueprints for all new buildings in 
Waterdeep, and all renovations which change the height of a 
building or add to its outside extent. This guild also does all 
the necessary surveying in the city, except for private building 
sites and road construction and repair sites. 

The guild maintains, at the Map House, a large and 
evergrowing collection of maps and nautical charts, which 
they will purchase from any who offer good specimens to 
them (at 1-5 gold pieces each). The guild sells copies of 
maps from this collection, typically at 25 gold pieces each, 
delivery to any Waterdeep address in nine days included. 
"Rush" jobs (two days) cost double. 

DMs should note that the First Chartist and the Speaker 
know the collection thoroughly, and also know charts and 
maps. They will pay more than the usual range for things 
they really need (for example, maps of cities in Thay, and 
good maps of far off, legendary Kara-Tur), but will refuse 
maps they know to be fanciful, wrong, or merely "treasure 
maps" with no details of the physical vicinity. Nautical 
charts (and of course, maps of the land) of the elven realm 
of Evermeet are a real rarity, and the elves take care that it 
stays that way. (Elves need no charts themselves, and their 
navy takes care that no other ships get near to Evermeet.) 





40. The VtKjTweKs', D1$Til&ns\ 

& Bizeuoerzs' Guild 

Master: Razaar Slissin-Guild Master (CN hm FO) 
Headquarters: The House of Good Spirits, the Rising Ride, 
Southern Ward (S3) 

Livery: Purple robes with an upright drinking jack in white 
silhouette on the breast 
Entrance: 30 gp; acceptance by the Master 
Dues: 1 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild has only 44 members, but it produces a prodi 
gious amount of drink for Waterdhavians and for export. 
Guild members annually turn out thousands upon thou 
sands of barrels of wine, beer, and various liquors, including 
the distinctive "zzar": a Waterdhavian fortified wine that is 
fiery, orange, slightly almond flavored, and equivalent to 
sherry. Player's Handbook prices apply to such wares; zzar is 
2 silver pieces per jack, or 7 silver pieces per bottle. This is 
a difficult guild to join; years of apprenticeship to a member 
are necessary (or outstanding credentials in other brewing 
guilds around the Realms). The Master is careful to keep 
the membership low so competition will not hurt guild 
members. 

41. The WagoNmakeRs' an 6 
Coach Bullderis' Guild 

Master: Sarjak Belszour-Guild Master (LG hm FO) 
Headquarters: The Coach & Wagon Hall, the High Road, 
Southern Ward (S5) 

Livery: Brown cloaks with four white wheels on each front 
shoulder 
Entrance: 20 gp 
Dues: 1 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild builds and repairs coaches, wagons, and other 
conveyances for overland trade and travel (including, for 
extra fees, conveyances with an amazing variety of secret 
hiding places for use in smuggling and outwitting bandits). 
The skill involved in making durable, beautiful wagons is 
considerable, and years of apprenticeship are necessary. 
Conveyances produced by the guild are elegant and sturdy, 
lasting through quite a bit of abuse. Prices vary widely with 
the different types and sizes of conveyances. Custom-made 
wagons take two weeks to build. Wagons assembled from 
"stock" parts on hand can be finished in two days. 



4-2. The WaTcbfuL Oizdeiz of 
MagtsTs & PizoTecTorzs 

Master: Mhair Szeltune - Lady Master of the Order (NG hf 
W19), Mhair's Tower, Spindle Street, Trades Ward (T6) 
Headquarters: Tower of the Order, The Street of Bells, Cas 
tle Ward (C15) 

Livery: Dark purple cloaks, with a white human hand, fin 
gers together and uppermost, on the left shoulder 
Entrance: 35 gp; majority vote of the members 
Dues: 7 gp/month 

Contact: Orlar Thammas - Speaker for the Order (CG hm 
Wll), Tower of the Order 

This guild protects the less-powerful wizards (and novices 
to the Art) of Water deep, and attempts to influence the 
powerful loners (wizards outside the guild) of magical 
power in the city (such as Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun 
and Maaril) to be prudent and conservative, wielding 
magic little in public, so that mages will be respected and 
looked up to, rather than feared and actively opposed. 
Guild activities have little effect on the city's more pow 
erful wizards who are not guild members and who do 
what they like anyway (although Khelben's quiet support 
in its early years allowed the Order to establish itself). 
They are effective in policing mages of low- and mid-lev 
els who visit the city, in matters of not throwing spells 
around to influence the populace, and respecting col 
leagues of all power levels. 

The membership gains great benefits through the Order: 

. Members can readily communicate with fellow members 
to arrange training and buy magical information with 
assurances that they are not dealing with charlatans (the 
Order will expel and publicly vilify members who prac 
tice deceit on fellow members). 

. Members can readily purchase rare material components 
(such components are not cheap, but the time necessary 
to procure them personally is saved) from the golem- 
guarded cellars of the Tower of the Order. (DMs should 
invent some heavy-duty magical guardians and traps for 
this place if PCs assault it, culminating in personal 
appearances by the Lady Master of the Order, Laeral, 
and perhaps one or more mages of high level. In other 
words, PCs should have to run for their lives!) Member 
and nonmember adventurers can make fairly good 
money by selling materials to the Order, but they won't 
buy overpriced or overstocked substances. 

. Members can purchase magical items and scrolls here, at 


expensive prices; they can also get items recharged for a 
fee (see "Magic Items" below). 

• Members short of cash can earn ready money by serving 
as fire guards, spell guards, or firefighters (see "Guard 
Duty" below). 

Guard Duty 

A fire guard is hired for a building (often only when it con 
tains valuables, although DMs should note that many 
nobles consider themselves valuable, night and day, as long 
as their money holds out) for 5 gold pieces/night. The guild 
keeps 1 gold piece of the fee, and gives the guarding mem 
ber 4 gold pieces. Such duty consists of loading up with 
affect normal fires, cone of cold, conjure water elemental, and 
similar spells and standing watch, with a guardian pigeon. 
If the pigeon is released, it will fly back to the Tower, and 
firefighting mages will come quickly, sometimes by aerial 
steed (the Lady Master has a Pegasus, who will carry one 
other with her, so long as Mhair is mounted too). 

Firefighting mages, of whom the Order retains four to six 
a night, are paid 9 gold pieces each by the Order directly. If 
summoned by a fire guard, they cost the building owner 
nothing. If they arrive to fight an unguarded building, the 
city will pay the Order a fee of 10 gold pieces per building if 
the owner cannot be found, is deceased, or is unwilling to 
pay. Otherwise, owners are charged 10 gold pieces per fire 
fighting mage. 

A spell guard costs 10 gold pieces per day (of which the 
Order gets 1 gold piece, and the guard 9 gold pieces), and 
the duty is simply accompanying a merchant, noble, or 
other paranoid individual through a day of living, partying, 
or working, to detect and counter spells cast at him or her 
(obviously, detect magic and dispel magic are needed here). 

Magic Items 

Once the Watchful Order became well established in 
the City of Splendors, they began selling minor magical 
items and scrolls (of a single spell each) to their mem 
bers. The items for sale below are detailed in Chapter 
Seven of the Campaign Guide to the City (with gp values 
adjusted to reflect the guild's price). A member of the 
Order may, of course, resell a scroll or item purchased 
from the Order to a nonmember (usually for a 75% 
markup). This resale is rarely done, since the Order will 
stop selling items to a member who does it too often. 
The Order makes these items and scrolls available to its 
members: 








ITEMS 

COST (Lowest price) 

broom of ever cleaning 

1,400 gp 

dagger of homing 

17,000 gp 

stamp of the messenger, gold 

2,500 gp 

stamp of the messenger, silver 

10,000 gp 

SCROLLS 

COST (Lowest price) 

Affect Normal Fires 

300 

Comprehend Languages 

400 

Detect Magic 

600 

Dispel Magic 

800 

Erase 

400 

Fire Trap 

1,200 

Identify 

500 

Infravision 

900 

Knock 

600 

Locate Object 

700 

Mending 

300 

Protection from Evil 

300 

Read Magic 

200 

Remove Curse 

1,000 

Reveal Magic* 

800 

Shield 

400 

Tongues 

900 

Water Breathing 

900 

Wizard Eye 

1,500 

Wizard Lock 

700 

Wound Bind 

1,500 

Write 

500 


* signifies a new spell, listed in Chapter Seven (The 
Magic of Waterdeep) of the Campaign Guide to the City. 

At the DM's discretion, minor magical items from the 
DUNGEON MASTER Guide can be purchased through 
the Order, with prices set according to the rarity and 
demand for the item (cost of magical items should at least 
be five to ten times their listed XP Value, and even more 
costly in Waterdeep, where prices are always what the mar 
ket will bear) as well as its usefulness to the consumer. 
(Weapons and items useful for adventurers are priced much 
higher than normal.) 

45. The WbeeLujR)gbTs' Guild 

Master: Zorind Tulwynd-Master Wright (LN hm FO) 
Headquarters: Wheel Hall, River Street, Trades Ward 
(T42) 

Livery: Orange robes with a black, spoked wheel on the breast 


Entrance: 5 gp 
Dues: 1 gp/month 
Contact: the Master 

This guild makes coach, cart, and carriage wheels, of spe 
cific woods steamed and bent, and wrapped with iron 
bands. Members can do this in a matter of hours with ready 
materials. Making a replacement wheel for a carriage that 
matches design and appearance exactly might take a day 
and a half. Merely fitting the same vehicle with a "stock" 
wheel of the right size and approximate weight takes min 
utes if one is in stock, and about two hours if it must be 
made (although it should not be used immediately, or it 
might throw its metal band off, and collapse --the band 
must cool completely to grip the wheel as tightly as it is 
supposed to). 

Guild PotiTfolios 

T his alphabetical list of goods and services will aid 
DMs in finding the guilds relevant to any PC activi 
ties. Guilds are listed by the number given them in the 
alphabetical guild entries above. If several are given for a 
particular heading, several guilds may well be involved, or 
several guilds may dispute who has control over the good or 
service in question, 
accounting: 34 
aerial steeds: 37 

animal training, breeding, capturing, taming: 37 

animals, slaughtering of: 14 

armor, fitting: 36 

armor, leather: 24 

armor, metal: 36 

arrows: 8 

art: 34 

baked goods: 1 

bars (windows, grates): 27 

barrels, making & repair: 4 

baskets, making & repair: 23 

beer: 40 

bells: 19 

belts, etc.: 24 

blacksmithing: 27 

bookkeeping: 34 

boots: 30 

bottles: 17 

bows: 8 




57 



boxes: 11 

branding (animals): 37 
building construction: 2, 18 
building design: 39 (2) 
building repair: 2 
candles, making: 15 
cargo handling: 20 
carpentry: 2 

caulking and sealing: 3 (not ships) 

chain: 27 

chain, fine: 21 

charts, nautical: 39 

cleaning (streets & stables): 6 

clerks: 34 

cloth: 29, 32 

clothing: 22, 32 

coach building: 41 

composing (poetry & music): 6 

counterfeiting: 34 

court records: 34 

crates: 11 

crystal balls: 17, 42 
dictation: 34 
digging: 3, 25 
distillation: 40 

docks, loading & unloading: 20 

documents: 34 

drugs, medicinal: 13 

drydocks: 31 

dung removal: 7 

dyeing: 29 

engraving: 19, 21 

eyeglasses: 17 

ferrying: 20 

fertilizer: 5, 7, 12 

finesmith-work: 36 

firefighting: 42 

fish, fishermen, fish-sellers: 12 
flowers: 5 
food: 5 

food, preservation and packing of: 11 
footwear, making & repair: 30 
frames, metal: 27 
furniture: 16, 23 
furs: 35 

garbage removal: 7, 20 
gems: 21 


glass, making & installation: 17 
gloves: 32 
gold: 21 

guiding through streets: 15 

harness: 33 

healing: 13 

horseshoeing: 27 

horse breeding & training: 37 

housing ("who lives where" information): 23 

ink: 38 

inns: 10 

jewelry: 21 

lamplighting: 15 

latches: 27 

laundry: 22 

leather: 24, 30; (winter only) 33 

letters (written): 34 

lighting, night: 15 

liquor: 40 

livestock: 14 

locks: 36 

longshoremen: 20 

magic (including protection against): 42 
magnifying glasses: 17 
maps (purchased, drawn, and sold): 39 
masks: 36 
masonry: 18 

material components (for spellcasting): 42 

meat: 14 

medicine: 13 

metal, precious: 21 

metal-work, design & repair: 27 

metal casting: 19 

mounts, "trade-in": 37 

music: 6 

musical instruments: 6 
nautical charts: 39 
needles: 27 

packaging, construction of: 11 
packing: 11 
parchment, fine: 38 
paper-making: 38 
pastries: 1 

pedigrees, animal: 37 
pens: 38 
pewter-work: 19 
piloting (harbor): 26 (20) 





58 



pipe laying: 3 
plans (building): 39 
plaster work: 2 
plumbing: 3 
portraits: 34 
pottery: 18 

preservatives, making & using: 11 
"problem patrons," information: 10 
quarrying: 18 
quills: 38 

record-keeping: 34 

renovations, building (plans): 39 

rental coaches & wagons: 9 

repairing buildings: 2 

roofing: 2, 18 

rope: 28 (26) 

saddles: 33 

sages: no guild; see Chapter 5 

sail: 28 (26) 

sand: 17, 18 

sandpaper: 17, 18, 21 

scabbards: 25 

scribes: 34 

scriveners: 34 

seals: 36 (see also 38) 

seasonings: 14 

secret compartments: 41 

sewer work: 3, 6 

shipbuilding: 31 

ship-loading & -unloading: 20 

ship-captaining: 26 

ship-owning: 26 

ship-repair: 31 

signers: 36 

silver: 21 

singing: 6 

skinning, animals: 24 
slaughtering, animals: 14 
sleighs & sledges, rental: 9 
smithy-work: 27 
smuggling: 4, 13, 41 
soap-making: 22 
spectacles: 17 
"spell-guard": 42 
stable cleaning: 7 
stamps, business: 36 
stolen animals, tracing: 37 





stone polishing: 18 

stone cutting: 18 

street cleaning: 7 

street construction: 25 

street repair: 25 

tack: 33 

tailors: 32 

tanning, hides: 24 

thieves: no guild (see 21) 

tile making: 18 

tools: 19, 27 

toys: 16, 36 

"trade-in" mounts: 37 

transportation (within city), land: 9 

transportation (within city), water: 20 

veterinary aid: 37 

wagons, making & repair: 41 

"wanted" likenesses: 34 

warehouse rental: 5 

waxes: 38 

weapons: 27, 36 (swords, finest quality) 

weaving: 29 

wheels: 43 

wicker-work: 23 

wine: 40 

wire: 21, 36 

woodcarving: 16 

wool & woolens: 35 

work clothing: 32 

zzar: 40 


so 



59 


Ch&pten. Fotui: 
Relidow )w 
WAiendeep 

ith the exception of the Time of Troubles, religion has never really had a 
serious impact on the city as a whole. And that is as it should be, for reli 
gion is fraught with personal choices and personal ethos, and is not some 
thing that should dictate the fortunes of a city like Waterdeep. Besides, if 
you let your religion and your belief systems rule your city, you might just 
end up like Zhentil Keep. . . . I'll keep religion my own way, and you keep it in yours, and the 
City of Splendors will be all the better for it." 

-an unknown Waterdhavian responding to a plea from a priest at the Plinth 

Waterdeep is undoubtedly the most tolerant city of any size in Faerun when it comes to reli 
gion, and perhaps the most tolerant anywhere in all the planes. All creeds are respected, 
due to the eclectic crossroads nature of the city, but the Lords have set a few major strictures 
on religious practices if the faiths wish to be allowed to remain in the city: 

• Worship of a particular deity cannot involve the theft or destruction of other beings 
(i.e. human or animal sacrifice). 

• A deity's worship cannot require tribute from those outside its faith; believers may 
freely give offerings, but nonbelievers should not be compelled to do so. 

• Harmful activities condoned or supported by a faith cannot be practiced upon non 
believers; for example, the followers of Tempus are not allowed to run amok in the 
streets, wantonly assaulting and attacking others in the name of the god of battle. 



A DM can thus use any gods (even those from outside the Realms) in play, since travelers 
and faithful from hundreds of places convene on Waterdeep and need places of worship, 
and all are tolerated here. A DM should bear in mind, however, that trade is of paramount 
importance in Waterdeep. Priesthoods that attempt to restrict trade, or expect large cash 
gifts to their deity, or who try to collect temple tithes through coercion, will not be popular. 

Waterdhavians vary widely in the strength of their faith (and monetary devotion) to 
their goal. In the interests of good role-playing, the DM should play the majority of Water- 
deep's citizens with the same devoutness (or lack of the same) that player characters display. 
Those players and Dungeon Masters wishing to leave out religion altogether may do so 
without detrimental effect on play, although the "flavor" of life in the city will change. 

Temples & Chwzeh Complexes 

T here are few large temple complexes in the city, considering its size, though the 
growth of those temples' revenues has increased dramatically since the Time of 
Troubles. In addition, three new temples have sprung up within the past ten years, the 
first to be built in Waterdeep in nearly four decades; the first faith, the Cult of Ao, dis- 









banded relatively swiftly, and its high marble "Temple of 
the Overgod Ao" was turned over to the Lords (now the 
rental hall called the Cynosure). 

In such a large and bustling center of commerce, priests 
have relatively little power and influence; large temples 
tend to establish themselves in small communities on 
major roads, where they are readily reached by the faithful 
and yet can dominate -if not control outright-their sur 
roundings. Here, in Waterdeep, the large temples serve 
more to reflect the generosity and affluence of the faithful, 
and in a city filled with rich merchants and nobles and 
adventurers loaded down with treasures, generosity to the 
gods can be quite phenomenal. 

Small shrines attended to by lay worshipers (not perma 
nent clergy) can be found in many cellars and upper stories of 
buildings throughout Waterdeep; one of the more prominent 
deities worshiped solely through lay shrines is Siamorphe, the 
goddess who allegedly grants nobles their divine right to rule. 
Places of worship are forbidden by edict of the Lords only in 
the City of the Dead, to prevent various priesthoods from 
claiming tomb after tomb as sacred to (and thus, exclusive to) 
their deity, and charging fees for entry and burial. 

In the past, much of the education of Warerdeep's citizenry 
was the result of either schools run by the temples (with the 
Lords' sponsorship, or that of noble benefactors) or indepen 
dent neighborhood schools underwritten by local parents, 
businesses, or guilds (or the rare self-taught individual). The 
only long-standing school of any matter within the walls of 
Waterdeep has been the Academy of Arms, sponsored by the 
clergy of the House of Heroes and various nobles involved in 
the mercenary fighting trades. Now, with the advent of the 
Font of Knowledge and New Olamn, the number of sages and 
bards has increased within the city, and plans are in the works 
for a school to be established within the temple of Oghma to 
educate Waterdeep's children. 

The staff and some details of the temples in the city that 
do have clergy (all save the Shrines and the Plinth are "large" 
temple complexes) are summarized below. These clerics will 
all willingly tutor adventurers of the right faith, class, and 
alignment, if the proper offerings to the furtherance of the 
deity's work through the temple are tendered beforehand. 

Tempies of Wat en&e&p 

The Font of Knowledge 

City Map Location: C4 
Temple of Oghma 

High Priest: Sandrew the Wise-Savant (LN hm P12) 


The Font of Knowledge, Oghma's temple, is at the sire 
of a former group of warehouses, and is still under con 
struction; the three-story wood and stone structure 
should reach completion by Midsummer of the Year of 
the Banner (1368 DR, 336 NR). Of particular interest to 
the city is its planned Great Library, which is currently 
being collected and organized at the Estelmer villa. 
Although the temple is not completed, Sandrew is col 
lecting his clergy and his Council of Sages, to respec 
tively help the faithful and the Library. He has recruited 
a few clerics from his old temple in Silverymoon, and his 
library staff includes Jhasper Goldtoes (a male halfling 
well versed in trade and commerce), Hycis Gentilore 
(her specialty is the history and culture of elvenkind), 
and the sisters Cera and Aria Whucknolls (Cera's spe 
cialty is religion and human gods, while Aria knows 
many demihuman languages). 

The Halls of Justice 

City Map Location: C5 
Temple of Tyr 

High Priest: Hykros Allumen (LG hm P10) 

Clergy: Harkas Kormallis-Tyr's Champion (LG hm Palll) 

The House of Heroes 

City Map Location: $58 
Temple of Tempus 

High Priest: Turik Bloodhelm-High Sword (CG hm F9) 
Clergy: Maxtilar Rhebbos - Prior (CN hm P6) 

The House of Inspired Hands 

City Map Location: $38 
Temple of Gond 

High Priestess: Jhoadil Zulthind (NG hf P8) 

The House of the Moon 

City Map Location: $56 
Temple of Selune 

High Priestess: Naneatha Suaril (LG hf P16) 

The House of Wonder 

City Map Location: $21 
Temple of Mystra 

High Priest: Meleghost Starseer-Magister of Mystra (LE 
hm W(N)ll) 

Clergy: Ilbrost Mythyl (NG hm W(E)9); Lara Idogyr (CG 
hef P(Sp)8) 



61 



The Plinth 

City Map Location: T38 
Temple of All Faiths 
High Priest: None 
Clergy: None 

This interdenominational temple is guarded by the 
watch at all times, and kept open as a place of worship for 
all faiths. Many minor or extradimensional faiths find the 
Plinth is their only formal place of worship in the city. The 
Plinth is a slender, many-leveled tower with a flat top, 
which is staffed by the guard as a landing-eyrie for the aer 
ial steeds of private citizens and the guard. 

The Shrines of Nature 

City Map Location: $5 

Shrines of Mielikki and Silvanus 

High Priest (Mielikki): Briosar Helmsing (NG hm R6) 

High Priest (Silvanus): Anarakin Iriboar-Watcher (N hm 
P(Sp -Druid)4) 

Ranking Clergy (Mielikki): Tehtira Bellsilver (NG hf R5) 

The Shrines of Nature are now considered one temple area, 
combining the grounds of the two separate shrines. The shrine 
to Mielikki is commonly known as the Lady's Hands. 

The Spires of the Morning 

City Map Location: Cl 

Temple of Lathander 

High Priestess: Ghentilara (LN hf P10) 

Clergy: Athosar-Prior (LG hm P7) 

The Temple of Beauty 

City Map Location: $10 
Temple to Sune 

High Priestess: Ssaeryl Shadowstar (LN hf P14) 

The Tower of Luck 

City Map Location: $19 
Temple to Tymora 

High Priestess: Seenroas Halvinhar (N hf P15) 

Clergy: Markos Zellizands-Prior (N hm P7) 

CuLTs )to the Cff\? 

M any of Waterdeep's religions are worshiped out of 
the public eye, in minor, private shrines set up in 
peoples' cellars or in a rented room in a row house. While 
many of the personal shrines and congregations about the 


city are harmless and simply serve for citizens to give lip 
service to their gods, there are some that are far less 
benevolent. 

CutT of Ao 

The Time of Troubles revealed to the Realms that the gods 
were petty beings, little better than many who worshiped 
them. The banishment of the gods to the Rea lm s acknowl 
edged the existence of an Overgod, a mighty power with the 
ability to punish and reward the gods themselves for their 
actions (or inactions) on the mortal and immortal planes. A 
number of cults to Ao, the Overgod, grew swiftly, but they 
fell apart when priests did not receive spells from Ao. 

Not everyone lost faith, though. The largest of the cults 
was based in Waterdeep, as many heard Ao's voice over 
Mount Waterdeep after the vanquishment of Myrkul and 
the ascension of Midnight and Cyric. A large marble tem 
ple was built upon the ruins at Trader's Way (the site of 
Myrkul's death). As elsewhere, the temple's flock was soon 
reduced by mortal and divine disinterest. The Lords of 
Waterdeep purchased the temple building and put it to use 
as a public hall. Despite the secular use of the building now, 
there are still a few who worship Ao within its walls. 

The Cult of Ao, reduced to less than 50 members, now meets 
in secret in various cellars, taprooms, and (rarely) at the Plinth 
or within the walls of the former temple to Ao, now called the 
Cynosure. While comprising people of all callings, the Cult of 
Ao does not count any priests as members with the lack of spells 
and blessings. The Cult has enthusiastically embraced their 
god's apparent tenets heard during the Time of Troubles: 

I. Ao created the Balance to establish Order. 

II. The Balance among gods and men must be main 
tained to keep Order. 

III. The Duties of gods and their servants are tanta 
mount to maintaining the Balance. 

IV. It is the Duty of the Eyes of Ao to be ever-vigilant 
that gods and their servants fulfill their Duties. 

V. It is the Duty of the Eyes of Ao to enforce the Bal 
ance and keep Order. 

There are also several lesser teachings within the Cult, 
and they deal with the gods' new status in the Realms. 
With their power dependent upon their worshipers, the 
gods are vulnerable. They have become the servants of the 
masses, just as their priests are their servants. If there are 
ever situations where priests, paladins, or a church as a 





62 



group does not (in the Cult's view) serve its worshipers, the 
Eyes of Ao will enforce his will and force the god and its 
servant to perform their duties to the people. 

The Cult of Ao magically keeps watch over the clergies 
within Waterdeep (and beyond, through the eyes and ears 
of its agents), making sure none stray from duty's path. 
Many of the cult also worship other gods devoutly, though 
they are perceived as the most extreme of worshipers in 
terms of interpreting the god's teachings. If there is any 
softening or change in the teachings by the priests or the 
holy warriors (paladins), those of the Cult of Ao will 
quickly investigate and ensure that they do not stray from 
the duty of that god (or that the god itself does not stray). 

CuLT Of GhAUKiA&ATl 

This evil cult is dedicated to one of the oldest (and most 
vile) gods of the Realms: Ghaunadar, the Elder Eye, the god 
of slugs, oozes, slimes, and jellies (see FOR2 Drow of the 
Underdark). Very little is known of the cult and its practices, 
but no formal priests of Ghaunadar have been heard of or 
seen within Waterdeep, Undermountain, or Skullport. 

Ghaunadar's main agents appear to be shapeshifters known 
as ghaunadan (see the MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r) 
pages in this boxed set). Several ghaunadan exist in Under 
mountain, where they keep watch over the temple of Eilis- 
traee, a temple of good-aligned drow near the subterranean city 
of Skullport. (A number of the clergy, including the high 
priestess Qilue Veladorn, were responsible for the destruction 
of one of Ghaunadar's avatars, and he waits patiently, building 
power for his revenge over Eilistraee's faithful.) In Waterdeep 
itself, a small circle of ghaunadar is working to infiltrate and spy 
upon the City of Splendor's powerful social circles (and suc 
ceeding, by seducing a number of young noblewomen and men 
with their charismatic humanoid forms). The ghaunadan have 
established a small temple in a hidden cellar beneath a ware 
house in the Dock Ward, and their god's constant need for sac 
rifice is being sated by unfortunates kidnaped late at night. 

CulT of IbKANdul 

There have been rumors for years about a certain god from 
the South that watched over and protected humans and 
adventurers who ventured underground, aiding and guiding 
them when they need help. Once limited to Calimshan and 
the southern countries, the cult of Ibrandul has risen in influ 
ence since the Time of Troubles. The cult is not evil, nor is it 
disruptive to the city's commerce or Lords' Rule; it is, how 
ever, a well-kept secret and is small in number (though not in 
money, as many members are idle nobles and adventurers). 





The cult even has a semisecret temple built beneath the 
streets and sewers of Waterdeep; only cult members or 
members of the Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild can tell you 
where it is (DMs can create some secret temple within the 
sewers, or they can have a secret cellar in a warehouse with 
a teleporting gate to the temple), and they do not offer the 
information freely or easily. Often, the only way folk find 
out about this cult is by invitation from the high priest, 
Thalandar; a few mercenaries and adventurers may have 
heard of him as well, since he hired quite a few of both 
groups as guards and workers for his temple. 

Thalandar "the Mad" (CN hm Dual-W12/P14 of Ibran 
dul; CON 18, INT 16, WIS 17): Thalandar, once a proud, 
handsome man, is now changed by Ibrandul's magics, and his 
skin now appears to be made of overlapping scales (similar to 
a kuo-toan's skin). He wears a necklace with a symbol of 
overlapping silver rings and heavy purple robes. A skilled ora 
tor, Thalandar used to sway many to his cause, but he now 
prefers to operate on a smaller scale. His temple has connec 
tions to one of Undermountain's sub-levels, and he provides 
PCs with the means of escaping the dungeon in exchange for 
donations for the temple and for Ibrandul. 

For more information and history on the cult of Ibrandul, its 
servants, and the true story behind the "God of the Dry Depths," 
see the Ruins of Undermountain boxed set; one of the monsters 
(the Ibrandlin) and an adventure (Undermountain Adventures, 
"The God of the Dry Depths") are based on this minor cult. 



63 


mph. Independents, they call us. You'd think we deserve something more 
fittin' for us, as we're really what keeps this city alive. Yup, we do. Aahh, 
don't be givin' me that look, lad, fer I know of what I speak. We, the folk of 
Water deep both common, like yerself and uncommon, like me - have I ever 
told you I used to be an adventurer? -hold the real influence here. If not fer 
us, the nobles wouldn't have anyone to do their work, and then how noble would they be? 
Besides, they like to lord it over us a little, and we don't mind - think of 'em like entertain 
ment, since they give us our laughs, struttin' around like peacocks all the time. And the guilds 
. . . if not fer us consumers and our money, where would they be? Now, everyone knows the 
Lords, savin' good ol' Lord Piergeiron, may Selune bless his little brains, are secret rulers who 
spend their days among all of us, lookin' out fer the good o' the city. Well, sir, everyone knows 
that most of'em are common folk just by the justice and good sense of their laws; they just stay 
hidden to keep from getting knifed in the back by some jealous, greedy, power hungry noble or 
guild master. Yup, the common folk run the city, ye've my word on it." 

- Essimuth Lanys, former adventurer 

These people represent the final faction of the power struggle within the City of 
Splendors: The common (and uncommon) people who simply struggle to survive and 
succeed in life every day. This includes the majority of the population-the working 
folk-as well as those select individuals that wield some power but only on a personal 
level. Keep in mind that mercenary and adventuring groups tend to vanish, reappear, 
grow, shrink, amalgamate, and change names with bewildering rapidity. First, we'll 
take a look at the smaller groups such as former and current adventuring companies 
(and organized trouble-makers) and see their impacts on Waterdeep's day-to-day exis 
tence. Then, we'll bring the focus to those eclectic personages in the city whose loy 
alties are primarily to themselves. 



Select AdvewTmiMg Companies 
of WaXeRxbeep 

The BuckLescuAsbeKs 

This group of five halflings and one gnome made their fame (or infamy) spread quickly 
throughout the streets of Waterdeep upon their arrival one year ago. Though they pre 
fer to be known by their official title as the "Steadfast Order of Shortfellow Swashbuck 
lers," this group of small demihumans has been most often referred to, by 
Waterdhavians and especially the watch, as the Buckleswashers. 

Seemingly led by the dashing Bungobar Talltankard, a fringe-bearded and gruffly 






































jolly half ling of proud claims and a somewhat shady past, 
the Buckleswashers are a merry and capable band (despite 
what their detractors would imply) of halfling and gnome 
adventurers. Their exploits tend to be rather explosive and 
raucous in nature, though they insist that all destruction is 
caused by whichever miscreant was their target at the time. 

The Buckleswashers have a checkered past, with rumors 
of Bungobar, Tannyth, and Osco working as spies for 
Tethyrian merchants. They "sought new employers" in 
Waterdeep, found the city to their liking, and "slyly let slip 
to the watch that Lord Jhannas Errlyk was smuggling con 
traband into the city." By the watch's account, that "sly 
slip" consisted of Bungobar running atop the South Gate 
with the watch in pursuit, pointing out Lord Errlyk's wag 
ons, and announcing loudly that the man smuggled poisons 
and assassins' knives, and was a ranking member of the 
Knights of the Shield and various other accusations; Lord 
Errlyk fled Waterdeep before answering any charges. 

The trio soon fell in with Carthax Nayusiyim, Lyratha 
Goldenale, and Dimvel Stoutkeg, fledgling adventurers 
looking for interested parties. For Lyratha and Bungobar, it 
was love at first sight and the two trios merged into one 
group. First hired as warehouse guards in the South Ward, 
they gained surprising acclaim for thoroughness and ability, 
capturing many thieves and saving employers' businesses, 
though they also garnered a reputation for excessive zeal. 
One lengthy pursuit of a thief ran across the roofs and 
streets of Dock Ward and resulted in the flaming ruin of the 
Luskanite ship Sea Dragon. 

On a bet from a young noble, Bungobar and his crew 
entered Undermountain for ten days and nights, encoun 
tering "horrors beyond imagining for you big folk, but we 
just laughed at such folly." Though none of them speak 
much about their time below, they returned to the Yawning 
Portal with some magical treasures. When the young noble 
failed to honor his wager, the Buckleswashers invited them 
selves to a party at his villa. After much confusion, none of 
it mitigated by Dimvel's flirtations with Waterdeep's finest 
ladies, the elder lord settled his son's debts to the Buck 
leswashers' satisfaction. The Lords Roaringhorn were taken 
with the gatecrashers, and later hired them as guards for 
many parties. 

Aside from their magic, the group gained an objective 
from Undermountain, something they lacked previously. 
Their mission, as they always tell folk, is "to protect the fair 
city from the Knife's Edge"; this charge was allegedly given 
to them by a Lord of Waterdeep deep within the dungeon's 


confines. For the past eight months, the group has accosted 
many cutthroats, thieves, and assassins in search of the 
group of elusive "Knife's Edge" assassins. Though none 
have heard of this group, the company members are not 
deterred. It's their mission to keep Waterdeep safe and 
nothing can stop them. The watch and the Lords do keep 
an eye on them, however .... 

Their roster is unchanged from the start, though many 
halflings ask to join their ranks. The Buckleswashers are 
listed below, and can often be found in Trades Ward (they 
keep rooms on Spindle Street). 

Tannyth Moonharness (NG halff F4/T5): Tannyth is a 
cheerful minx with far too much mirth and curiosity for 
many. Her pranks are legendary, as are her heists (she still 
asserts no knowledge of how Lord Peirgeiron's sleeping silks 
ended up in her rooms!). She dresses in gray leathers 
(leather armor +1), though her clothing and short jet black 
hair do not keep her from looking very childlike (a trait 
that causes foes to underestimate her). Her ring of jumping 
also surprises many foes who thought her trapped! Her 
other surprises include a lovely singing voice, oft heard in 
the Safehaven Inn's taproom, and her ability to outdrink 
even the saltiest seadog from Dock Ward! 

Carthax Nayusiyim (LG gm W(I)6): The only gnome 
in the group, Carthax and his appetite have managed to 
build a hefty belly to rival any halfling's (many mistake him 
for a halfling with small feet). Despite his stout, harmless 
appearance, Carthax is a powerful mage with his illusions. 
Aside from his belly, many comment that he is the very 
image of Elminster of Shadowdale "having shrunk a few 
sizes in the wash" with his gray robes, white hair and beard, 
and everpresent pipe; and, like Elminster, he is easily 
underestimated (his rod of smiting poses as a staff). Having 
been friends with Dimvel for years (ever since a particularly 
destructive tavern brawl saw them removed from Sembia), 
he fits in well with the others. 

Osco (LN halfm T6): A surly, dour halfling with a scar 
across one cheek, this black-clad thief holds himself to very 
high standards, and constantly argues with Tannyth over 
who is the premier spy and thief of the group. Though he 
won't admit it, Osco respects Tannyth's (and the others') 
skills and is glad to have them as friends. Osco only smiles 
when in battle; his favorite tactic is to run across ceilings 
(using slippers of spider climbing) and drop atop his foes' 
shoulders, smiling coldly as he backstabs them. Despite his 
unsavory profession and tendency to kill those who offend 



him (especially those who laugh at him or his friends), his 
word is his bond (as much as any halfling's) and he would 
gladly give his life for any of his fellow Buckleswashers. 

Dimvel Stoutkeg (CG halfm F6): Dimvel is best known 
for his rugged, handsome looks. His ageless face holds shin 
ing green eyes, a light brown goatee, and a ready smile. His 
attire also stops many, as Dimvel wears only a cloak, leather 
breeches and high boots. His well-muscled frame lacking a 
halfling's typical bulging belly, he looks more a northern 
barbarian than a halfling of his family name. (He stays 
warm with his boots of the north.) His charm and good looks 
(Charisma 18) give him many suitors, while his axe of hurl 
ing dispatches his enemies. He is all smiles and song at all 
times, whether in battle or in a party. 

Bungobar Talltankard (CG halfm F7): "Leader" of 
the Buckleswashers in name only, Bungobar is every bit 
the dashing hero, eager to be about his tasks and charg 
ing blindly ahead where others pause. He has a flair for 
dramatic entrances, smashing down doors with his 
gauntlets of ogre power and swinging into a room on his 
magical rope (see below). He loves his wife deeply and 
can be very jealous, especially if any humans or elves 
talk to her. Bungo has adopted the quest for the Knife's 
Edge with obsessive zeal; of late, he even is missing his 
typical five meals a day! 

Bungobar's Rope of Swinging: This 20' coil of magical 
rope was found by Bungobar in Undermountain. One end 
of the rope has a magical stone woven into it. With a 
command word, the stone stops and holds its position for 
up to 20 rounds; Bungobar often tosses this to its full 
length, says the command word, and uses it to swing into 
areas, the rope attached only to open air. It can also be 
used to escape pits by throwing it up and climbing the 
magically secured rope. 

Lyratha Talltankard (NG halff P(Sp)6): The true leader 
of the Buckleswashers, Lyratha is the woman behind the 
brash Bungobar. Lyratha is calm and gentle but is quite 
capable of giving the meanest creatures pause with a furious 
glare. At Bungobar's side, her "suggestions and tactful help" 
guide the group as much as Bungo's rash courage. Though 
appearing undefended, she wears her bracers of defense AC4 
under billowing linen sleeves and has a gem of brightness on 
a necklace. Her golden tresses are always brushed and shin 
ing (her rare gold hair seen as a sign of favor from Lath- 
ander), and she often holds sunrise prayers to Lathander at 
the Plinth; she is also welcome at the Spires of the Morn 
ing, as a friend to High Priestess Ghentilara. 


Compawv of Crazed VehiTurierzs 

This former adventuring company was one of the longest- 
lived groups, aside from the Red Sashes, that operated 
within the city without the direct control of the Lords of 
Waterdeep. Their escapades (which span the course of 
twenty years) are still talked about quite proudly by Fil- 
iare, whose Inn of the Dripping Dagger was often the 
group's home or temporary place of rest. His favorite story 
involves a badly worded wish spell that teleported the 
company from the Dungeon of the Crypt "into the bar of 
the Dripping Dagger," resulting in the bar's spectacular 
destruction when they emerged inside it; the bar and the 
company were all later restored to full health at the Ven 
turers' expense. Their tower on the High Road north of 
Selduth Street has long since been replaced by row 
houses; many older citizens still remember the two-story- 
tall solid silver purple worm-many say it was alive and 
transformed by the Company's wizards-that stood for a 
time in the tower's courtyard, though it was soon broken 
down and recast into coins. 

The Crazed Venturers are still held high by many in 
Waterdeep as examples of local folk who succeeded in their 
pursuits of fame and fortune - and this point is driven 
home quite emphatically by many self-made Waterdha- 
vians-without becoming involved with the Lords of the 
city or affiliated with "other do-gooders like the Harpers." 
While more than 40 people counted themselves as mem 
bers over the course of two decades, a relative few survived 
that still have dealings with Waterdeep, including the fol 
lowing (more information can be found below and 
throughout this boxed set on many of these NPCs): 

• Tolgar Anuvien (NG hm P18 of Chauntea), founder and 
leader of Goldenfields; 

. Dumal Erard (LG hm Pall2 of Helm), founder and 
leader of Helm's Hold; 

• Loene (CG hf F10), former fighter and current landhold 
ing resident of Waterdeep; 

. Malchor Harpell (NG hm W20), senior wizard of the 
group, now a recluse in the Tower of Twilight; 

• Nain Keenwhistler (NG hm W16), wizard and current 
record holder for most resurrections of any citizen of 
Waterdeep; 

. Trunnian Regallis (CN hm T12), a human thief and 
friend to Laeral, as well as one of the few humans allowed 
on Evermeet, where he currently lives; and 

• Savengriff (LG hm W19), former apprentice to Khelben 
and current Harper agent on the Sword Coast. 



The Deep Delveizs 

The jaded young scions of Waterdhavian noble families 
have now taken to "delving" into Undermountain as a 
source of excitement and adventure. The group is now a 
nigh-permanent fixture at the Yawning Portal inn, where 
they enter the dungeon while the others wait above and 
wager on their comrades' success (failure is rarely even con 
sidered as an option). In the few years since these escapades 
started, the Delvers have brought back many trophies of 
their adventures below-the rarest was the head of a behir! 
Where they were once just arrogant nuisances in over their 
heads, the Deep Delvers have graduated into capable 
(though no less arrogant or annoying) adventurers in their 
own rights; the initial furor caused by their noble parents 
died down after Myrnd Gundwynd, lost in the dungeons 
and believed dead for three months, was rescued by other 
adventurers within the dungeon. While their parents do 
not approve, the Delvers use Undermountain to garner 
their fame and fortune, rather than just inherit the same. 
The current membership of the Deep Delvers includes 
(listed with magical items): 

" Regnet Amcathra (NG hm F4), cloak of protection +3, 
long sword +2, ring of regeneration; 

• Bleys Crommor (CG hm F5), brooch of shielding, long 
sword +1, +4 vs. magic-using and enchanted creatures; 

• Corinna Dezlentyr (LN hef W3/F3), bracers of defense 
AC 2, scimitar of speed +2, ring of spell storing; 

• Dundald Gost (CG hm F6), two-handed sword +4, 4 
javelins of lightning, potion of healing; 

• Myrnd Gundwynd (CN hm F4 -Barbarian), boots of 
striding and springing, Quaal's feather token, Whip; 

• Horth Hunabar (CE hm F4), bracers of defense AC6, 
short sword of quickness (+4); 

• Jandar Ilzimmer (CG hm F4), broad sword +1, potion of 
extra-healing; 

• Morgunn Lathkule (CN hm F5), long sword +4, ring of 
shocking grasp; and 

. Shauban Zulpair (CE hm T4), gloves of missile snaring, 
chime of opening, potion of healing, potion of speed. 

Foes of The Fawg 

This mysterious group of vampire hunters formed in 
Waterdeep in the Year of the Maidens (1361 DR, 329 
NR), and swiftly left "to rid the northern frontiers of a 
plague of vampires!" This hearty vow caused quite a dis 
turbance, with many Waterdhavians wondering why no 
one else heard of an increase in vampiric activity 


(including sages and monster hunters versed in such mat 
ters). Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun refused to comment 
at all on the matter, though he was present in the tap- 
room of the Mighty Manticore when the company made 
its vow. Despite everyone's doubts and the lack of 
advance knowledge, the group actually uncovered and 
killed a number of vampires, including a trio that had 
been operated in Mirabar for over 20 years. In a few short 
years, the Foes of the Fang eliminated over 22 vampires 
in the northern Sword Coast regions. 

The group, all native Waterdhavians, has not been seen 
or heard of for two years; their last known heading was for 
the ruins of Castle Khommel in the Grey Peak Mountains. 
At the group's last sighting, its membership had dwindled 
to the five adventurers below. 

• Rand Ceunnen (CN gm T8; INT 16): Surly, dour, and 
always ready for an argument, Rand is a gnome with a 
tragic past. Formerly a sailor of the Adarbrent fleet, he 
was a survivor of the Whitecap tragedy. (A vampire hid 
on board and slowly killed everyone after the ship left 
Murann to head north - Rand and three others aban 
doned the ship and escaped on a small boat, arriving at 
Baldur's Gate with their tale of horror.) Since then, Rand 
brought the Foes together to hunt down vampires, and 
his short sword of quickness has dispatched many vampires 
in a short time. (He was still hunting for the Wlritecap 
vampire when last seen. . . .) 

• Argent Corsucan (LN hm F9; CON 18): An arrogant 
but adept fighter. Argent learned to fight at the Field of 
Triumph under the tutelage of Caladorn Cassalanter. 
Argent left Waterdeep after four years in the watch to 
seek adventure and the chance to use his dead father's 
sword, the long sword that Argent calls "Deathblade" 
(long sword +2, giant slayer). 

• Bleys Dhacrylon (CG hm P(Sp)9 of Sune; STR 16, 
WIS & CHA 17): At the time of the Foes' founding, 
Bleys was described by Imzeel Coopercan of the Mighty 
Manticore as "a vain, flighty, empty-headed priest 
who'll be back in the city in a tenday, complaining 
about how much mud is on the roads outside of town!" 
Contrary to that belief, Bleys is the mainstay of the 
group, often being the first to close with his undead 
foes, but still taking care to keep his face and his cloth 
ing impeccably clean and "worthy of Sune's grace." His 
prized possession is an electrum holy symbol of Sune 
that he wears around his neck; it acts as his holy sym 
bol and as a necklace of adaptation. 




67 



• Jandar Ilbaereth (LG em W6): Jandar joined the Foes 
and accompanied them on their initial adventures, 
soon falling in love with the half-elven Corinna. He 
disappeared in Mirabar, and the Foes went on without 
him for months. When he reappeared, he contacted 
the group and alerted them to the vampires in 
Mirabar; unfortunately, he had been turned into one 
as well! Jandar aided the Foes in destroying the lesser 
vampires, but was forced to fight them when the 
master vampire returned to the lair; the master vam 
pire and Jandar were both slain, but the Foes resur 
rected Jandar at the Spires of the Morning in 
Waterdeep. Jandar now prominently wears a symbol 
of Lathander at all times, and his hatred of vampires 
has tripled due to his experiences. 

• Corinna Lathankin (LG hef W8/P8 of Lathander): A 
foundling half-elf raised at the Spires of the Morning, 
Corinna has dedicated her life to the worship of Lath 
ander, though a period of willful disobedience in her 
early years opened her eyes to the study of magic and 
mage-craft. Her golden bracers (bracers of defense AC 2) 
were given to her by her mentor, Olanhar Wands, and 
they are each stamped with the sign of Lathander. 
Corinna is a highly emotional woman who focuses her 
passions into her spells and activity; her rage at Jandar's 
fate in Mirabar was chilling, but she used all that anger 
to single-handedly destroy the master vampire with spells 
and blows of her mace +2. 

IOo)gbTs of the So jorid CoasT 

This adventuring company gained fame and notoriety 
throughout the Savage Frontier during their two 
decades of activity. The company grew from its original 
eight members to a total of twelve people who called 
themselves the Knights of the Sword Coast over the 
years. Their greatest adventure saw the destruction of 
the ancient lich Berthist in the Trollbark Forest, but 
cost them the lives of their leader, Barkess Lanys the 
paladin, and four others: Garathorn the Gold Mage, 
Rett (a follower of Barkess), and Kaylor and Stynirr 
Heremet (married priests of Lathander). The surviving 
members all live within the Adventurers' Quarter of 
South Ward and still keep in contact after retiring in 
1366. The membership included: 

> Arkiem Arren (LN em P9 of Milil); 

> Rachel Arren (CG hf P6 of Lliira); 

• Travis Deepdell (NG hem R8); 


• Vhonna Deepdell (LG hf Pall2), original member; 

• Garathorn the Gold Mage (LG hm W12), original mem 
ber, deceased; 

• Nopos Harpsong (NG em B5), original member, missing 
for over 5 years and presumed deceased; 

• Kaylor Heremet (LG hm P9 of Lathander), original 
member, deceased; 

• Stynirr Heremet (LN hf Pll of Lathander), original 
member, deceased; 

• Barkess Lanys (LG hm Pal8), original member, deceased; 

• Essimuth Lanys (CG hm T12), original member; 

• Rett (LG hm F2), deceased; and 

• Watcher Thistlebuck (NG halfm Til), original member. 

By the end of Higharvestide in 1368, a new group calling 
itself the Knights of the Sword Coast will collect in Water- 
deep. The group numbers many fledgling adventurers with 
personal ties to the group's original members. The new 
group members are as follows: 

• Gemidan (LN hm W3); 

• Donar Heremet (LN hm Tl); 

• Jan Hunabar (LG hm Pall); 

• Kharkos (CG hm FI); 

• Lauhren (CG hf PI of Lliira); and 

• Owen "Jadelocks" (NG hm FI), 

For more information, the Knights of the Sword Coast, 
both old and new, are heavily detailed in the Adventurer's 
Guide to the City and the Secrets of the City books. 

TcuJUgbT HuMteRs 

A reclusive adventuring group still active on the Savage 
Frontier, the Twilight Hunters also own a tavern on 
Nindabar Street in North Ward. They help in the tav 
ern's operation when they are in town, otherwise leav 
ing it to relatives and hirelings; they spend much of 
their time north and east of the city, hunting monsters 
(resulting in the many battle trophies that decorate the 
tavern), and other mysterious tasks that have many gos 
siping. All allegedly wear magical rings, though none 
can agree on what powers these rings command (assum 
ing they know at all). The Hunters are: 

• Lehcarir (LE hem T10); 

> Nimbrethul (CG hem BIO); 

• Riverstone (N hm D9); 

• Song (NG hf W9); and 
. "Stalker" (CG hm R9). 




68 


Select Saces of 
WateR^eep 

S ages are not organized into guilds or companies; in 
fact, many (if not all) sages work alone, though this 
habit may be changing. . . . For the convenience of 
Dungeon Masters, sages are collectively detailed here. 

Sages, or "wisebeards" as most Waterdhavians call them, 
can be found in many of the city markets, the open squares 
and courts, and at the Plinth at any hour of the day. Most 
sages in the city rent rooms and move often, as they search 
for new beings to consult and writings to study. Such moves 
minimize risks of theft, intimidation to acquire informa 
tion, and the regrettable tendency of landlords and neigh 
bors to disturb a sage's studies with requests for this or that 
information "free . . . just for me?" 

With the building of New Olamn (the bards' college) and 
the Font of Knowledge (the temple to Oghma, god of 
knowledge), Waterdeep is becoming a center of learning 
once again, and this is attracting many new sages. A number 
of bards and sages have taken up residence in New Olamn, 
either to teach or to stay for a time and learn what they can. 
Oghma's temple is still under construction, with completion 
expected by Midsummer of the Year of the Banner (1368 
DR, 336 NR); until then, the priests and the faithful of 
Oghma operate out of a row house on Swords Street, the 
ground-floor shop a temple and meeting place, and the three 
floors above quarters for the priests. The priests often can 
answer basic questions as well as provide referrals to the 
appropriate sages in the city (for small fees, of course). 

All the sages are of varying degrees of learning, and Water- 
deep's greatest resident sages of note are Sandrew the Wise, 
the Savant (high priest) of Oghma, and the archmage Khel- 
ben "Blackstaff" Arunsun (though Khelben considers himself 
a private citizen, and not one to be bothered by people with 
frivolous questions); keep in mind that these two are knowl 
edgeable about more topics than can be listed, and, unless you 
have a problem of world-shattering importance (as well as 
some way to personally contact Sandrew or Khelben), it is 
best not to disturb either man out of turn. The present where 
abouts of many of the known sages of the city are left open to 
the DM, though a noted few have fixed locations. Remember 
that the sages below are not the only learned experts-for-hire 
in the city, simply a listing of those specifically schooled on 
the listed topics. Refer to the DUNGEON MASTER Guide 
for details of dealing with sages. It is strongly suggested that 
sages be too expensive for casual consultations. 


Amnglor Belthair (NG hm W2; INT 18): While certainly 
a wise, learned man in regards to the supernatural, 
Amnglor has much to learn about social interaction. He 
rudely interrupts everyone whenever a thought (rele 
vant only to him) enters his head, and talks with Amn 
glor ramble and cover an incredible number of trivial 
tangential subjects-the only way to escape him is to 
walk away from him. 

Expertise (Major-Specialties): Supernatural; Unusual - 
Divination, Planes (Outer). 

Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Chemistry. 

Ilighast Chamnabbar (NG hm W5; INT 17, WIS 17): 
This short, bitter little man is a member of the Watchful 
Order, and spends much of his time at the Tower of the 
Order, hoping to overhear some useful information. 
Incredibly terse whenever he talks, some complain that 
"you have to pay this sage per syllable for the informa 
tion you receive!" 

Expertise (Major-Specialties): Supernatural; Unusual - 
Dweomercraft, Planes (Astral, Elemental, Ethereal). 
Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Demihumankind -His 
tory (Savage Frontier). 

Narthund Delzhour (LG hm FO; INT 18, WIS 17): One of 
the cheapest sages in terms of charges, Narthund often 
conducts his business at a tavern, his research paid half 
by coin, the rest by ale. Be sure to get your information 
from him early in the evening; his friendly, easy-going 
nature gives way to much drinking and less coherent 
sage advice. 

Expertise (Major-Specialties): Physical Universe- 
Astronomy, Geology, Mineralogy. 

Expertise (Minor - Specialties): Astrology, Numerology. 
Ammathair Hawkfeather (LN hm FO; INT 18, DEX 16): 
Since the Time of Troubles, this sage has been restricted 
to his house on Swords Street, his legs useless after an 
attack by one of Myrkul's minions. His mind is still 
sharp, and his research is quick and thorough; he sleeps 
very little, as he is constantly plagued by nightmares of 
the attack nine years ago. Since the Godswar, Ammath 
air found himself curious about the worship of the gods 
and has made a study of it; the Cult of Ao tries to con 
tact him, but he refuses any communication with them 
for reasons unknown. 

Expertise (Major - specialties): Humankind -History, 
Theology, Myth. 

Expertise (Minor - Specialties): Metaphysics, Religious 
Practices-Human and Demihuman. 



Zeltabbar Iliphar (NG hm FO; INT 17): Master Iliphar owns 
a rowhouse in Trades Ward on Nethpranter's Street, and 
he and his two lovely daughters tend to his library. He is 
totally deaf, but can read lips with perfect comprehension 
(he knows elvish, dwarvish, and many human languages of 
the Realms); he can still speak, but often writes down 
responses on the many slate boards he has in his ground- 
floor office. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Humankind-Languages, 
Legends and Folklore. 

Expertise (Minor - Specialties): Planes (Outer). 

Jasmal (N df P4 of Dumathoin; INT 16, WIS 18): This 
female dwarven priest has a light beard and a ready 
smile, unless you've lied to or cheated her. She is only in 
Waterdeep in winter, and she spends the rest of the year 
wandering the Savage Frontier, looking for relics of Del- 
zoun as well as observing the local animals. 

Expertise (Major - Sgecialties): Dwarvenkind-History, 
Stonecraft, Weaponry. 

Expertise (Minor - Specialties): Fauna-Sword Coast and 
Savage Frontier. 

Vlorn Keenear (N halfm T3; DEX 19, INT 17, WIS 18): 
Vlorn Keenear is a newcomer to the city, and many are 
unsure of his qualifications. His information is accurate, 
but his manner of sarcastically joking while talking to a 
client leaves many wondering where his jokes end and 
his advice begins. Despite his recent arrival, his under 
standing and grasp of the intricate politics of the Water- 
dhavian nobles is near-perfect. Some nobles want him 
dead for secrecy's sake, while many others shower him 
with gifts, in hopes that he will help them in their latest 
conniving plot. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Halflingkind-History, 

Languages, Legends and Folklore, Theology, Politics; 
Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Humankind - Politics 
and History (Waterdeep and Sword Coast cities). 

Blackrabbas Khuulthund (CN hm FO; INT 18): This sage 
is a windbag who, in earlier years, was prone to making 
claims of knowing far more than he actually did (or had 
the ability to research). Now, his intellect and research 
sound, he finds that few believe what he has to say; he 
has started to improve his reputation in the city, but his 
few clients are often visitors and travelers attracted by 
his lower fees for work. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Fauna-Sword Coast and 
Savage Frontier (avians, insects). 

Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Botany -Sword Coast 
and Savage Frontier (flowers, herbs). 


Javroun Lithkind (NE hm FO; INT 17): A spiteful, bitter 
man of 50 winters, Javroun continues his practice as a 
consulting sage only for a chance to "prove my superior 
ity to the feeble-minds that infest our city and the 
Realms." His most annoying habit is to stare silently at 
his clients, twisting his moustache, until they practically 
beg for his knowledge and assistance. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Humankind -History, 
Politics, Genealogy. 

Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Geography. 

Haerund Mhammaster (CN hm FO; INT 18): This tiny, 
shriveled, hunchbacked old man never leaves his library, 
and is often covered with as much dust as his many 
tomes. He never solicits for clients, but his friends in a 
nearby tavern help people find him if they trust them 
(and honestly seem in need of his help). His musty 
library and rooms are filled with many examples of elven 
statuary. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Demihumankind-Art, 
Music, Legends and Folklore. 

Expertise (Minor-Specialties): Cryptography. 

Kromnlor Sernar (CN hm FO; INT 16, WIS 18): A 35- 
year native of the city, Kromnlor originally came from 
the lands near Sespech, where she was trained as a mid 
wife. Learning much during her travels, she arrived in 
Waterdeep and began to help many of the indigent of 
Dock Ward with her folk remedies. This practice, which 
continues to this day, keeps her at odds with the Guild 
of Apothecaries and Physicians, who discount and vilify 
her information as "false knowledge" (in truth, her 
learning is far more accurate and far-reaching than that 
of many guild members). 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Flora-Sword Coast, Sav 
age Frontier, Heartlands (fungi, herbs) 

Expertise (Minor - Specialties): Medicine. 

Mirrormul Tszul (CG hm FO; INT 18, WIS 18): A highly 
excitable, nervous mage of advanced years, Mirrormul 
talks incredibly fast, even when calm. If amused or 
inspired by a question or task, he practically giggles with 
excitement; while some assume he is losing his wits, he 
simply gets wrapped up in emotion over the intellectual 
challenge. He is also a devout worshiper of Sylvanus, 
and never fails to lend aid if asked to do so by the priests 
at the Shrines of Nature. 

Expertise (Major - Specialties): Humanoids and 
Giantkind-Biology, Languages. 

Expertise (Minor - Special ties): Demihumankind - 
Languages. 


70 



Select IwdepewdeMT 
NPCs of WateR^eep 

Artwagus the Sh)puoiz)ghT 

Game Data: LG hm F7; STR 17, DEX 16, CON 17, INT 
17, WIS 17, CHA 16. 

Description: Approaching 60 years of age, Arnagus is a 
strong, vital man with broad shoulders, a beaming smile, 
a ruddy, clean-shaven complexion, and a healthy shock 
of long, white hair. While not of noble blood, he grooms 
himself well and dresses in expensive finery. He is gen 
uinely friendly with everyone he meets, but often has 
little to say, even to friends he's known for years. 

Notes: The wealthiest of Waterdeep's shipbuilders, Arna 
gus is also rumored to be the best (and his prices cer 
tainly reflect that reputation!). Arnagus is very 
influential within his guild (the Order of Master Ship 
wrights); he is also one of the most skilled hagglers and 
traders when dealing with other businesses about town. 
The watch has come to rely on Arnagus' watchful eye to 
find happenings near his docks, as his sharp eyes rarely 
miss a thing; he has aided the watch in any number of 
arrests for smuggling, theft, murder, and extortion 
within Dock Ward. 

FLambos AjremasTerc. 

Game Data: NG hm R6; STR 17, WIS 16. 

Description: Always clad in his green cloak and black 
leathers (leather armor +2, cloak of protection +1), Flam- 
bos looks the very picture of what city-dwellers expect a 
ranger to be, with his rugged, muscular form, his long, 
tawny mane of hair, bow and arrows, and his intimidat 
ing battle axe ever at his side. (He even wears a minia 
ture replica of his battle axe as an earring.) Flambos has 
captured the hearts of many of Waterdeep's maidens, but 
he has yet to settle down, preferring his life of constant 
action and few commitments. Flambos can imitate birds 
perfectly, and he whistles and chirps almost continually 
when out in the woods (unless stealth is required). 

Notes: Flambos is a ranger based in Waterdeep, and he can 
be found in almost any inn or tavern, splendid or 
squalid. He rides the High Moor armed with long sword, 
long bow, and the battleaxe for which he is named, bat 
tling evil creatures who live there until he must return 
to the city for healing and rest. He will readily accom 
pany adventurers of good alignment who need a guide or 


sword-arm, charging 1 silver piece a day (and an equal 
share of any treasure gained). Any large amounts of trea 
sure he may win while adventuring will be given to the 
Shrines of Nature (specifically to that of Mielikki) in 
Waterdeep, for the Lady's Work. Smaller amounts pay 
for necessary healing and daily expenses, but Flambos 
lives simply and with few attachments. 

"Black VtpeR" 

Game Data: CE hf TO; DEX 18, CHA 16. 

Description: The Black Viper is, in fact, a woman from 
Amphail who makes her home in Undermountain; her 
true name is Alauneth Orrane. She has short, hacked- 
off black hair, a fiery temper, and a deep, husky voice 
(which can't seem to snarl six words without a salty 
sailors' oath). She has a beautiful face, except for a 
ragged scar that runs down the left side of her chin and 
throat to end on her shoulder. 

Notes: People in Waterdeep hear of thefts from nobles and 
rich merchants alike -and snatch-and-grabs in the 
streets, accompanied by clouds of smoke. A taunting 
note is always left behind, signed: "The Black Viper." 
Her thefts are always daring, from nabbing a guard's 
sword from its sheath while he naps at his post to steal 
ing the armor of a visiting envoy during his visit to the 
garderobe (washroom) at the Palace, and so on. ... In 
the past years, she has grown bored of her thieving 
games among the rich; to curb this, she has allied herself 
with some agents of the Shadow Thieves. She acts as 
their scout in the city, recruiting talent and surrepti 
tiously buying properties and hideaways for the guild. 
She now uses her daring snatch-and-grabs to gain mate 
rials with which to blackmail rich merchants into being 
her purchasing agents. 

BLaz)<3om Ok ie-E\?e 

Game Data: CN hm F6; STR 16. 

Description: Blazidon is a large, stocky man, with graying 
hair and a patchy, unkempt beard. His many scars and 
thickly muscled shoulders and arms mark him as a 
fighter from days past. While a bit overweight, Blazidon 
still comes out of retirement every now and again; he 
claims he lost his left eye while on such an adventure 
(though rumors tell other stories . . .). While he dresses 
simply, he wears a few rings that belie his status as "a 
poor hiring agent for sell-swords" (ring of the ram, ring of 
vampiric regeneration). 





Notes: By night, Blazidon makes the rounds of the 
city's inns and taverns, befriending poor newcomers 
to the city who might be willing to hire themselves 
out as fighters or guards. By day, this grizzled old 
fighter, now retired but still armed to the teeth, can 
be found in Virgin's Square, where most caravan 
masters know where to find him. His fee is one cop 
per piece per person hired, and Blazidon will contact 
sell-swords for clients, bringing them together to talk 
business in a little room off the taproom at the Bow 
els of the Earth (City Map Location T36). Unbe 
knownst to most of Waterdeep, he owns the place, 
and usually sleeps in its dust-filled attic. Blazidon 
knows Waterdeep's inns and taverns well, and he can 
easily direct people to any location south of the Mar 
ket (for a fee, of course .. .), including the safe ways 
to get there (for another fee). 

ImzeeL CoopeRcaw 

Game Data: CG hm F2; STR 17, CON 18. 

Description: Often mistaken for a dwarf, Imzeel Cooper- 
can is a short, dour human with a barrel-shaped torso, 
heavily muscled arms, and a thick beard that spreads 
over his broad chest. He speaks rarely, preferring to lis 
ten and muse over the talk of his patrons; he also has a 
habit of constantly polishing the bar at the Mighty 
Manticore tavern (City Map Location C12) whenever 
he gets the least bit nervous - the bar is often clean 
enough to see one's reflection. 

Notes: Imzeel Coopercan is the proprietor of the Mighty 
Manticore tavern in Castle Ward, a popular meeting 
place for merchants and the city workers from the 
Palace. Imzeel prides himself on his simple but hearty 
fare, his steady and always-satisfied clientele, and his 
many friends (who rally to his side instantly, should any 
trouble erupt in the tavern). Though he overhears many 
secrets and rumors every day, no amount of coin or pain 
will get Imzeel to part with any information; he still 
bears the scars along his back and arms from a failed 
interrogation by a vicious Red Wizard (who sought the 
location of certain people known to frequent his estab 
lishment) from 18 years past-Khelben Arunsun inter 
vened and saved his life, a fact that Imzeel will never 
forget and never charges Khelben for his patronage at 
the Manticore. 


Coizi L 

Game Data: CG hm(f) W5; INT 18, DEX 18. 

Description: Always seen wearing heavy, black robes and 
carrying a heavy, metal-bound book under one arm, 
Coril seems a handsome clean-shaven young man. His 
brown hair is close-cropped and straight, and his eyes 
are a sparkling lime green hue. Quiet almost to a fault, 
Coril is often found in the comers of Waterdeep's tap- 
rooms, simply watching people. 

Notes: Coril is really a young woman, and an agent of the 
Harpers, about whom she deliberately knows nothing use 
ful. Once a month she meets with Shalar Simgulphin in a 
tavern in Waterdeep; she tells him details of people she's 
observed (including notes and sketches she stores in her 
tome to pass on), and he tells her of things to look for in 
the month ahead. For this service, she receives 50 gold 
pieces a month for next month's tavern expenses. 

Coril's tome is actually a collection of loose papers on 
which she writes awful verse as well as coded bits of 
information for the Harpers. Coril has no magical items, 
and she keeps her spellbooks hidden in a cavity behind 
a loose stone in a roof minaret atop Mariners' Hall (City 
Map Location D44). She is the illegitimate daughter of 
the warrior Sarraver of Baldur's Gate, who does not 
know her current whereabouts. 

ELaffb "The S enp&foT 

CKAUVbJOlDUK 

Game Data: NE em F9/W9; STR 17, DEX 17, INT 16, 
CHA 17. 

Description: This charismatic, handsome, and silver-tongued 
rogue is a ruthless daredevil of moon elf stock; tall, slim, 
and silver-haired, his slender form and melodious voice 
disguise a truly dangerous individual. While often appear 
ing indifferent about his surroundings and companions, his 
amber eyes are always wary of sudden movements and 
shifting shadows (and rarely show any emotion, other 
than cold, hard rage). He earned his nickname for his glid 
ing strike in battle, and his black sense of humor. 

Notes: Elaith is the last survivor of the famed Company of 
the Claw, the Three Blades, the Regiment of the Seven 
Swords, and the Company of Crossed Blades -his suc 
cess at escaping sudden death does not go unnoticed, 
but few dare to face him and inquire how he did so. 
(Rumors say (correctly) that he betrayed and slew a 
number of his comrades.) 

Elaith often organizes new adventuring companies in 


72 


Waterdeep's taverns, to explore this or that dungeon or 
ruin in the North. Experienced mercenaries cynically 
say that he is simply looking for cheap, expendable mus 
cle and dungeon-fodder to fight (and fall prey to traps) 
in order to help him grow richer at their expense. (Blazi- 
don One-Eye refuses to do business for him, but there 
are always mercenaries with overdue bar tabs larger than 
their brains for Elaith to exploit.) 

All Waterdhavians have heard rumors that Elaith has 
vast sums of money hidden around the city, but he always 
seems to seek more. Elaith owns many places in and 
around Waterdeep, including Blackstone blouse (City Map 
Location T44), though he does his purchasing through 
agents and few know he is the true owner of many of their 
buildings. In a hidden cellar in one of his properties, Elaith 
keeps some of his greater treasures in a strongbox; guarded 
by a gargoyle and two crawling claws, Elaith's box contains 
several wands, a cloak of elvenkind, and three coffers of gems 
worth over 100,000 gold pieces. Elaith's magical treasures 
are small, and he carries his dagger of homing, a ring of the 
ram, and a potion of extra-healing at all times. 

Elaith fights more often with weapons than spells, 
though he is equally deadly with both methods. He 
fights with a long sword, but also carries four daggers 
(one in each boot, one at his belt, and his dagger of horn 
ing in a hidden forearm sheath) and a handaxe. He is 
also adept at using spears and darts as weapons, but 
prefers to keep his prey close, fighting with his blur- 
ringly-fast bladework. In terms of spells, Elaith uses 
Rary's Mnemonic Enhancer to carry more lightning bolts 
and fireballs than he ordinarily would be able to. 

Infamous among his own kind, Elaith is hated and 
feared, although some secretly envy his success and con 
fident independence. Elaith takes full advantage of the 
fact that most visitors to Waterdeep do not expect an elf 
to be evil. His reputation, though, has begun to precede 
him in the last few years, so his activities within the city 
are tapering off (moving, rumors say, to Skullport and 
Luskan, where he operates in secret under the alias of 
Lord Buronae Trilluach. . . ). 


DagsumM 

Game Data: LN hm W5; INT 17. 

Description: Gaunt and ghostly-pale, Dagsumn is an aus 
tere man of moderate height. Much of his bulk is most 
likely due to his heavy blue and green robes. Still, 
despite his apparent physical failings, Dagsumn is a 
capable and knowledgeable spellcaster, though his 
brown eyes flash with a hunger for power over any 
thing magical. 

Notes: Dagsumn was born in Port Llast and had a brief 
apprenticeship with Malchor Harpell at the Tower of 
Twilight near Neverwinter; while they did not part com 
pany as enemies, Dagsumn and Malchor have not talked 
to each other in over 20 years. Dagsumn came to Water- 
deep to make his fortunes, casting spells and tutoring 
lesser mages for fees. Over the years, Dagsumn has 
adventured around the Sword Coast, but now prefers to 
stay within the city, casting spells (such as identify, detect 
evil, locate object, and strength) for adventurers with 
enough gold to cover his fees; such spellcasting usually 
takes place within the City of the Dead, a place that 
ensures a severely limited number of witnesses. 

Dagsumn, while friendly and trustworthy enough to 
honor any contract to the letter, is a stickler for details 
and minutiae, and will belabor people about the least 
little details of something he wishes to know. This 
becomes even more apparent when talk turns to magical 
items; while Dagsumn is more than talented enough to 
create his own items and spells (and he does so on rare 
occasions), he prefers to take the lazy route and collect 
magical items (and magical power) with a minimum of 
risk and a minimal loss of gold from his pockets. 

BamaaL DuwsTeR 

Game Data: NG hm P5 of Lathander; WIS 17. 

Description: Bamaal is a short, fat, jolly man of advancing 
years, given to impish humor and a love of good times 
and convivial fellowship. While nearly blind, Bamaal 
never needs worry about his direction, as many in Castle 
Ward know and love him, and help guide him on his 
way; curiously, he still sees certain things better with his 
rheumy eyes than many people a third his age (like the 
promise of young love or a passing stranger in need of 
Lathander's blessing and comfort). 

Notes: Bamaal is often found in taverns and parties, and 
still has a prodigious tolerance for drink; although he 
may grow rather owlish by night's end, he still remains 



upright and observant (more so than many of his drink 
ing partners). While he once exasperated the clergy of 
Waterdeep's temple to Lathander with his "undignified 
nature," his devotion to the temple and its faithful have 
swayed his detractors, and some even admit that he (and 
his geniality) is partly responsible for their large congre 
gation. As he has for decades, Bamaal tends to Lath 
ander's teachings of new beginnings in unorthodox 
ways, like tending someone's flowers or loaning young 
couples the key to his rooms for a night (practices emu 
lated by a number of young acolytes of Lathander's tem 
ple, much to the chagrin of the other conservative 
clergy). He gains his money by healing and aiding others 
with his spells for fees, and apparently Lathander 
approves (as Bamaal's prayers have never been ignored). 
Bamaal, "73 winters young" by his own admission, still 
has a spring in his shuffling gait, and never fails to rise 
from his bed (or tavern stool) in the dead of night to 
tend the wounds of a fallen adventurer. 

Duizomll "The Fearzless" 

Game Data: CN hm T7; STR 16, DEX 18 

Description: At first glance, Duromil does not live up to 
his name; of medium height and build, Duromil-with 
his stringy chestnut hair, wispy moustache and beard, 
and ill-kept equipment-gives many the first impression 
of an average fighter down on his luck. When he speaks, 
he looks people in the eye, and his vocal confidence and 
the way he carries himself, always alert for trouble, 
changes peoples' minds. While he isn't cruel or overly 
reckless, Duromil quickly dives into combat with a cer 
tain zeal that earned him his nickname. 

Notes: This quiet, close-mouthed thief of Waterdeep 
specializes in robbing visitors to the city of small items 
of value (gems, magical items, etc.). He frequents Cas 
tle Ward's inns and taverns, posing as a fighter and 
even hiring on with Blazidon if times are particularly 
lean. Duromil wears an old suit of battered leather 
armor and carries a slightly pitted long sword, a mod 
erately better broad sword, and two sharp, well kept 
daggers; he often claims that he cannot afford better 
weapons and armor, but in truth he chooses to let peo 
ple underestimate him. He is not adverse to accompa 
nying people as a hiresword and later stealing from 
them when opportunities arise. He will always, above 
all else, try to conceal that he is a thief, especially 
when he is disloyal to the PCs. His favorite tricks are 


backstabbing and picking pockets in the dark when 
the PCs are confused and split up, and then "appear 
ing" on the scene as a loyal, troubled comrade. 
Duromil is wise enough to know when this ruse won't 
work, and he never attempts it if there is even the 
slightest doubt about its success. He has successfully 
done this many times, and no surviving adventurers or 
Waterdhavians suspect that he is a thief-in other 
words, he's a very smooth operator. 

Game Data: LN hm F5; STR 16, INT 16, CHA 16 

Description: Filiare is a jovial, middle-aged man whose 
thinning black hair and moustache are shot with gray. 
Despite his years of retirement from the field, Filiare 
manages to maintain his strong physique that made 
him one of the higher-paid mercenaries of the Sword 
Coast decades agone. Always pleasant and inviting, he 
is one of the city's most beloved innkeepers (by all save 
Blazidon One-Eye, with whom he competes as a job- 
finder for hireswords). Filiare is a good, kind, consider 
ate host, and is more than willing to shave a few 
coppers off a bill (for used weapons or a bar tab) for 
folks down on their luck. 

Notes: Filiare's years as a mercenary were quite successful, and 
upon retiring, he purchased the Inn of the Dripping Dag 
ger, which is the favored home and watering place of many 
mercenary warriors today. Many employers looking for a 
few blades in a hurry come here and see who's "at home at 
the Dagger" to hire. The Company of Crazed Venturers 
lived here until they built their own keep (it was later 
destroyed), and it was always their favorite place to drink 
(and still is, when some of the Company members reunite 
in the city). Filiare has many spare weapons on hand to 
sell; many of them were given to him by fighters down on 
their luck with no spare coin to settle their bills (or who 
never returned from a quest for more gold). (These 
weapons are for sale at 10% less than standard Player's 
Handbook prices, if adventurers seem in dire straits.) 


74 



K Apph^AhJ FLunmAsTyn 

Game Data: NG hm W14; INT 18, CHA 16. 

Description: This tall, thin, dignified man of nearly 100 
years always wears immaculate gray robes (despite his 
messy line of work), and has white hair and beard, and 
bushy eyebrows that don't conceal a childlike gleam in 
his sea green eyes. 

Notes: Known as Waterdeep's "potion wizard," Kappiyan 
lives off Anchoret's Court in Southern Ward (City Map 
Location S10) with his apprentice, Shalara Malarrkin, 
his partner in periapt and potion creation for 12 of her 
26 years. Kappiyan is constantly involved in research, 
and his potions are sold to provide money to continue 
his researches. Kappiyan will sharply remind PCs, 
should they darken his doorstep more than twice in six 
months time, that his house "is not a potion shop for 
your convenience!" He has a number of magical 
guardian creatures and other deterrents protecting his 
house (DM's choice). Kappiyan has not been seen 
within the city since early 1366; if asked, Shalara will 
simply say "he is off on an excursion beyond the city, 
and will return in his own good time." 

GAUtodos 

Game Data: CN hm W(I)8; DEX 17, INT 17. 

Description: Uncertain; Gaundos has been described over 
the years as having about fifteen different facial and 
body features, none of which could be corroborated due 
to his illusions. To this day, no one knows what Gaun 
dos really looks like, and he identifies himself by an 
ornate moonstone ring that he wears, his sigil carved 
into its face. 

Notes: This mysterious illusionist of Waterdeep always 
took care that none knew his true abode or face, 
employing change self constantly, and making para 
noid roundabout trips everywhere, constantly dou 
bling back and changing his appearance again. Four 
years ago, he fell victim to Hlaavin, the greater dop- 
pelganger and leader of the Unseen; Gaundos still 
lives on, but as an identity of Hlaavin's and as an 
agent for the Unseen (see Chapter Six for more 
information). He can be contacted at The Swords' 
Rest tavern on the High Road (City Map Location 
SI) by leaving word with the bartender, Elgorel, 
whom he speaks to at some time during every 
evening. He will agree to cast spells for a fee, but he 
does not tutor illusionists as he once did; Hlaavin 


finds it useful to maintain Gaundos' patterns and 
habits, but does not want extensive contact with 
anyone for longer than a few hours. He will never 
willingly go on adventures, and for self-protection 
carries a necklace of missiles (4 2-dice missiles, 2 of 4 
dice, 2 of 6-dice, and one of 8 dice), which he will 
use if attacked or cornered by anyone; he flees after 
using the missiles to cover his escape and, once out 
of sight, changes his appearance to become lost in 
the crowd (or to become one of Waterdeep's many 
stray dogs). 

Ge mldAKi 

Game Data: LN hm W3; DEX 16, INT 18. 

Description: This young 8-year-old boy has flame-red hair 
and an eruption of freckles all about his face. He dresses 
in typical apprentices' clothes, with nothing other than 
his metal bracers telling people of his status as a wizard. 
He wears a brass symbol of Azuth under his shirt, and 
clutches at it through his clothes when he gets nervous. 
Normally, Gemidan is all bluster and bravado with little 
regard for the consequences of his actions (like most 





young boys); Khelben had hoped to teach his young 
prodigy patience, tolerance, and humility while tutoring 
him in magic, but Gemidan left, and his arrogance 
(Khelben fears) will soon get him into troubles where 
his skills may not save him. . . . 

Notes: By far the most unlikely wizard on the Sword Coast, 
8-year-old Gemidan seems touched by Mystra and 
Azuth's blessings, as he showed up on the steps of Black- 
staff Tower at age six, demanding the wizard teach him 
everything he knew. Impressed by the lad's nerve (and 
later, his ability), Khelben and Laeral took to teaching 
the boy magic; after two years, Gemidan has advanced 
far more swiftly in magic than men five times his age, 
including creating a number of spells all his own! Gemi- 
dan's impatience got the better of him, and he left Khel 
ben' s tutelage behind to join the new Knights of the 
Sword Coast and adventure in the Savage Frontier. 
Laeral knew he planned to leave, and made sure he got 
some magical items that would protect him from his 
own rashness and childlike naivete (bracers of defense 
AC 5, ring of spell storing). 

HalasTeR 

Game Data: CE hm W29?; DEX 18, INT 19. 

Description: Halaster appears, in his true form, as a bent, 
gaunt old man wearing rotting, tattered brown robes and 
a gray cloak thrown over his shoulders. Most often, if 
PCs see evidence of Halaster's presence at all, he is seen 
as a watching eye floating amid glowing, sparkling motes 
of light. No matter what form Halaster wears, his gig 
gling and muttering is constant. Despite this ineffectual 
image, Halaster is, without a doubt, one of the most 
powerful mages ever to set foot in, around, and under 
Waterdeep (since insanity rarely stops people from cast 
ing spells . . . ). 

Notes: Halaster Blackcloak is the long-fabled "Mad 
Mage of Undermountain," its creator and caretaker 
and certainly its most dangerous and unpredictable 
native. Halaster looks upon the dungeon as a dear, and 
deadly home, an amusement gallery where adventurers 
and others arrive to perform and entertain him. It is 
also his own waiting net that brings him new compan 
ions, new magic, and new creatures to catch, study, 
and catalogue. He usually remains unseen, skulking as 
an invisible observer behind a hundred unsuspecting 
monsters. 


Ma Icboiz Hakp&II 

Game Data: NG hm W20; INT 18. 

Description: Looking upon Malchor Harpell, one sees a 
man of many talents with the potential to be nearly any 
thing he put his mind to. He does not dress as a typical 
mage, but in expertly tailored commoners' clothes. 
Physically fit and tall, Malchor wears his dark brown 
hair short and keeps his beard neatly trimmed and close 
to his face. Malchor is a man whose passions are knowl 
edge and learning; he is also an artist and painter, look 
ing at his magecraft and art as extensions of the same 
creative forces. 

Notes: Malchor was a charter member of the Company of 
Crazed Venturers, with whom he had a long and active 
(more than any other Company member) career. Upon 
the Company's dissolution, Malchor stayed with Khel 
ben Arunsun in Waterdeep, and willingly served him as 
an assistant, including taking part in adventures on 
other planes, and aiding in Harper-related plans. Mal 
chor did this to gain the experience he believed neces 
sary for self-sufficiency in the sometimes-dangerous 
North. 

After years at Khelben's side, Malchor left to return to 
his native Longsaddle and build his own tower, the 
Tower of Twilight (it rests half a day's ride west of 
Longsaddle, on the edge of the Neverwinter Woods). 
He has been in semiretirement there for over 20 years, 
studying and furthering his powers, with the occasional 
relaxation of training (for substantial fees) lesser magic 
users, including Dagsumn. Malchor now rarely emerges 
from his Tower of Twilight except to aid the Lords of 
Waterdeep. Malchor has at least one guardian defending, 
his tower; he has mastered the arts of creating stone 
guardians, staves of the magi, wands of magic missiles, rings 
of feather falling, and rings of warmth, and is now working 
on potions and elixirs. Malchor's travels taught him 
many languages, and he is fluent in common, elvish, 
djinni, and drow. 

When adventuring or traveling (usually astride his 
griffon), Malchor always wears a lurker cloak and a ring 
of protection +3, and bears his staff of the magi. He is 
also said to have one or more rings of warmth and 
feather falling with him to trade for magic new to him, 
or timely aid, as well as for his own use. He may tutor 
lesser mages on rare occasions, but only if they seem 
genuinely interested in knowledge for the sake of 
learning, not power. 




\feb &lleM HacukbaM<3 

Game Data: NG hem R9; STR 16, INT 16, WIS 16. 

Description: Vedellen easily passes for a true gold elf, with 
his slim, angular features, golden hair and bronzed skin, 
and elegantly pointed ears, though he is a half-elf (but 
often poses as a full elf, when situations warrant). His 
eyes are a remarkable shade of reddish-brown, and they 
seem like twin pools of molten rock when Vedellen is 
angered. 

Notes: This ranger from Triboar is a Harper agent, but he 
focuses less on the cause and grand plans of the 
Harpers and more on the excitement. A simple man 
(and quite young for a half-elf-he is only 32), 
Vedellen merely seeks grand adventure in the wilds, 
with any band that is headed there. His longstanding 
task for the Harpers is to keep an eye on such bands in 
Waterdeep and report on their real alignments, inten 
tions, and activities. If he joins a band, it will be on a 
temporary basis, and he will, of course, seek to curb 
any wanton destruction of wildlife except evil giant- 
class creatures or other monsters, whom he will attack 
without hesitation. Between adventures, Vedellen will 
always return to Waterdeep's inns and taverns to con 
tinue his spying for the Harpers. While his main loca 
tion is Waterdeep, where many of his Harper contacts 
meet, he also maintains (with some money from the 
Harpers) rooms in Mirabar and Silverymoon. 

Tessal-AR HuDcortd 

Game Data: LN hm W17; INT 19. 

Description: A high-voiced, bearded, vain man given to 
wearing lots of sparkling rings (costume jewelry worth only 
a few coppers), Tessalar is nonetheless a respected and well- 
liked figure at the galas of Sea Ward, often preparing elabo 
rate illusions and pyrotechnics for a sponsoring noble 
(whose praise and political support is now more important 
to Tessalar than money). While he has no major enemies, 
Tessalar seems paranoid and trusts no one, always demand 
ing payment in advance for unusual potions and scrolls, or 
half in advance and half when ready (he does not deliver, 
so you must go to him to do business). 

Notes: Tessalar used to be a mercenary mage of Waterdeep, 
who tutored and cast spells in exchange for treasure, 
which he uses to further his researches into the making 
of various magical items. After one fateful trip into 
Undermountain, he came back richer than any man this 
decade, laden with dozens of emeralds the size of goose 


eggs. He still makes and sells scrolls and potions, and all 
of his money goes into magical research. He rarely 
leaves his home (Tessalar's Tower is at Sul Street and 
Chasso's Trot in Sea Ward; City Map Location $25), 
and his defenses (from his tower's reinforcing walls of 
force and iron golem guardians to his personal protec 
tions like a permanent Serten's spell immunity, numerous 
contingency spells, and a ring of spell turning) daunt even 
the most powerful of enemies. 

MjsTmvrc. Iroaw 

Game Data: NG hm W9; DEX 16, INT 18. 

Description: Once a pale, sunken-eyed young man of mea 
ger means, Mistmyr is now in the prime of life and his 
success has made him a healthy, if skinny, mage and tav 
ern keeper. His clothes, alternatively shirt and breeches 
or wizard's robes, are usually rumpled but in good repair. 
His thinning hair is slicked back and tied in a ponytail, 
but people focus on his glistening amber eyes more than 
his balding head. Mistmyr talks very fast and very 
loudly, especially if he becomes nervous or excited. 

Notes: When he arrived in Waterdeep 11 years ago, Mist 
myr was a young, good-natured sorcerer of impoverished 
means, who had no magical items nor many gold pieces 
to his name. After a few years of casting spells for, or 
tutor, anyone who paid him, he managed to gain the 
friendship of a tavern owner in Dock Ward who gave 
him the tavern shortly before passing away. Now, with 
some money and magic to keep the place in good repair 
and lighting, Mistmyr owns and operates the Azuth's 
Mug tavern, located just off Soothsayer's Way in south 
ern Castle Ward. Though it opened at the start of the 
Year of the Shield (1367 DR), it has already attracted 
greater crowds than it ever did in its previous incarna 
tion as the Crow's Nest tavern. Mistmyr still trades 
spells and tutors lesser mages in his spare time, but he 
will not go on adventures unless forced to, even if 
offered heaps of treasure, for he thinks the risk too great, 
especially now as a property owner. 



JdhJszobun 

Game Data: NG hm F6-Barbarian kit; STR 17, DEX 16, 
CON 18, INT 5, WIS 4. 

Description: Janszobur is a tall man with no beard, his long 
red hair kept braided. He wears pants and a cloak cut 
from the pelt of a polar bear, and his shirt, if he actually 
remembers to wear one, is of simple linen. He has a bril 
liant sapphire ring given to him years ago by a noble 
paramour, and he has no idea that it is actually a ring of 
protection +2. 

Notes: Janszobur is a native of the Snow Cat Nomads, 
who inhabit the mountains of the Utter North, bat 
tling remorhaz and intruding ores with savage feroc 
ity. They are few and physically strong, and worship 
an incarnation of Tempus, whom they call "the Fist." 
Once in his life, each man of the Snow Cats must 
undertake a quest, a service for the Fist, some great 
deed for the tribe. The elder seers of Janszobur's tribe 
picked as Janszobur's task bringing back a warrior- 
princess from the great city of men far to the south, a 
fighting queen who will lead the People to greatness. 
So to Water deep Janszobur came ten years ago, and 
he spent months being bewildered by the strange 
ways and all the finery and wealth. 

After 16 long months, he found his War Queen, a 
female mercenary from Athkatla, and returned with 
her to the Utter North. Two years later, she perished 
during a hunt, the victim of a remorhaz. As she failed 
to lead the Snow Cat Nomads to fame, the tribe elders 
judged Janszobur a failure in his quest as well. For the 
good of the tribe, he returned to the City of Splen 
dors, to search once again for his War Queen, though 
far less diligently this time. He has resumed his old 
habits of visiting the taverns of South and Dock 
Ward, drinking all evening, breaking a few heads to 
warm up, and then striding through Water deep, 
singing lustily at the top of his lungs as he looks for his 
queen. Janszobur prefers to brawl rather than draw 
steel. Unwitting PCs who encounter him may suffer 
the same fate that watch officers usually do (reports 
usually include the phrase, "after regaining my senses, 

I . . . "). Given his disgrace, he is more open to 
thoughts of adventures that can redeem him in the 
eyes of his tribe; if approached, he might join PCs for 
an equal share of treasure. 


Jemutzil 

Game Data: CN(G) df F10; STR 16, CON 19, WIS 18. 

Description: While few nondwarves can recognize her as 
thus, Jemuril is a slim, female dwarf with a rare, radiant 
smile behind her thin beard. 

Notes: Jemuril owns a house in Dock Ward (City Map Loca 
tion D53), which she keeps closed to visitors. During her 
career, she has amassed a great collection of magical items. 
She is famous for destroying the evil mage Susktar of 
Calimport 15 years ago; when attacked in the Market (she 
refuses to discuss what set off the attacks), she waded 
through two lightning bolts to reach him, rammed a globe 
from a necklace of missiles down the mage's shirt, and then 
struck his chest full force with her war hammer. PCs should 
decide whether they truly wish to disturb Jemuril. . . . 

Na 7N) KeewcubteTLerc. 

Game Data: NG hm W16; DEX 16, INT 18. 

Description: Nain's once-blond hair has, due to the stresses 
of repeated deaths and resurrections, turned chalk-white 
in hue, though he maintains a healthy, ruddy complex 
ion and has avoided death successfully for over ten years 
now. His eyes, however, are disconcerting, since all the 
color has darkened in his irises, giving him dark, black 
eyes; while most believe this is just some strange affecta 
tion of Nain's, some wonder if this isn't some strange 
after-effect of his long ago battle with the demigod 
Iyachtu Xvim, son of the fallen god Bane. 

Notes: Nain is an ex-member of the Company of Crazed 
Venturers. In his career with them, he was slain and 
raised many times, but has not died in over 20 years. 
Nain is now a fast friend and reliable ally of Khelben 
and Durnan of the Lords of Waterdeep. With his share 
of the Company's wealth, Nain built his own tower 
(Naingate) in Waterdeep, at Seawatch Street and 
Grimwald's Way (City Map Location $15), where he yet 
lives and studies and researches. After a few years of 
retirement, Nain organized a small short-lived group of 
adventurers called the Company of Staff and Steel, 
including Kappiyan Flurmastyr's apprentice Shalara. 
They traveled about the northern Sword Coast and Sav 
age Frontier for two seasons, at one point dissipating a 
horde of ores set to advance to the south. While neither 
speaks of what happened at the end of the Company, 
Nain and Shalara avoid each other now, three years 
after the dissolution of the Company. Though Nain is 
happy to move beyond the shadow of his colleague. 


Malchor Harpell, he has not paid attention to his magi 
cal studies or adventured in two years, keeping him at 
his present level. Still, Nain is now happily immersed in 
the cut and thrust of politics and intrigue as a trader and 
diplomatic agent in the Palace for the Lords (that is, he 
supports and puts forward views of the Lords while 
appearing as an independent, thus influencing other 
diplomats and city personages). 

Loewe 

Game Data: CG hf F10; STR 16, DEX 17, CHA 16. 

Description: Loene has large, hazel eyes, a fit, healthy 
body, and long, dark blonde hair. Though she has the 
grace of a dancer, her moves are measured, precise, and 
guarded, as Loene is always alert and ready for danger. 

Notes: Now a formidable fighter and rich landlord in Water- 
deep, Loene was once a "pleasure girl" purchased by 
Minark "the Salt Torturer," from whom she was rescued 
by the Company of Crazed Venturers. Becoming an assis 
tant to Nain Keenwhistler, she defended him ably when 
he was attacked in the streets, and was offered a place in 
the Company ranks and training at arms as a result. She 
rose in skills with astonishing speed, and, upon the Com 
pany's dissolution, remained in Waterdeep as a gambler 
and adventuress for hire, becoming for a time the lover of 
Mirt "the Moneylender." 

Loene no longer gambles, is still a friend of Mirt, and 
still trains lesser fighters and goes on adventures in 
return for a 2 gp/ day fee and a full share of treasure. She 
does not really need the money, and will refuse any part 
of what she sees as foolhardy, frivolous, and trouble 
making ventures. Loene wears a ring of spell storing (con 
taining dispel magic, fly, sending (to call upon Nain), and 
wall of force) when adventuring. Khelben, Nain, or Mal 
chor will readily "refill" it for her. Loene has a dagger +1, 
but otherwise carries no magical weapons; she is thought 
to have a few, hidden away in the walls of one of the 
buildings she owns. Loene's house is on Waterdeep Way, 
and backs onto Gem Street (City Map Location C42). 


Mddnil 

Game Data: NE hm W17; DEX 17, INT 18, CHA 17. 

Description: A handsome, dark-eyed wizard with a jutting 
black beard curling from the point of his chin, Maaril is 
given to wearing dark green or purple robes, and is never 
seen without his staff of power immediately at hand. 
Maaril also wears an amulet of proof against detection and 
location and a ring of x-ray vision at all times. 

Notes: Maaril, a wizard of note in the city (due more to his 
dragon-shaped tower than his personal power), is working 
on the secrets of opening gates to other planes and com 
manding creatures from those planes who come to this 
one, and is constantly on the watch for signs or news of 
new magic in the city. The other mages of Waterdeep 
consider him an eccentric, but do not realize his evil 
nature (Khelben suspects, but Maaril's visible guardian 
creatures are enchanted constructs rather than living 
beasts, and can remain lifeless if Maaril has guests). 
Maaril will try to seize (by means of clay golems or gar 
goyles, by night) any items of magic that PCs reveal to 
public view in the city. He will prove a quiet, patient 
behind-the-scenes foe to any adventurers who retaliate 
against him, hiring endless hireswords to bar their way. 

ShdldKd MdldnkkihJ 

Game Data: CG hf W6; DEX 16, INT 18, CHA 16. 

Description: At 25 years of age, Shalara is one of the 
crowning beauties of Waterdeep, though she pays this 
little heed and would prefer to be known for her 
knowledge and magecraft. This raven-haired woman 
wears modest robes of varying hues of red, and always 
has a silver necklace around her neck (a keepsake 
from Kappiyan that acts as a ring of spell turning). 

Notes: Shalara's initial association with the then 80-year-old 
Kappiyan Flurmastyr caused quite a stir, as she was his 
youngest female apprentice yet at age 15, and quite the 
fetching beauty then as well as now. She learned magic at 
his side for years, and developed a great respect and love 
for him, more akin to a young girl's love for a father than 
what the rumormongers tell. After a period of adventur 
ing that left her with some magical treasures, much expe 
rience and firsthand knowledge of the Realms, and a 
severe aversion to Nain Keenwhistler, Shalara has 
returned to Waterdeep and has been taking in a number 
of young apprentices while Kappiyan appears to be absent 
from the city. There used to be many young men who 
would mill about Anchoret's Court, hoping to meet 



Shalara and invite her to a party or attempt to woo her; 
however, after an impromptu lecture of Shalara's, where 
she espoused "magic can be focused to your need, making 
it flashy and forceful but never more than is absolutely 
necessary, "and then unleashed a gust of wind that blew 
her potential paramours out of Anchoret's Court, 
lovestruck visitors have been less frequent. . . . 

Mulgorz 

Game Data: LG hm P4 of Tyr; CON 16, INT 16, WIS 18. 

Description: While he is not physically impressive, Mulgor 
is a powerful presence, with his patient, thoughtful gaze, 
calm demeanor, and confident air. His slight paunch is 
offset by a sharp, exact gait and ramrod-straight posture, 
and his short brown hair is always perfectly orderly. He 
dresses simply, but wears a cloak with the sign of the 
Lords of Waterdeep on its shoulders when officially 
about the city collecting fees. If officiating in a religious 
ceremony, he has rich ceremonial robes that mark him 
as a priest of Tyr. 

Notes: Mulgor is Waterdeep's collector-of-fees, a stolid, 
polite, no-nonsense man who is escorted by the watch 
while on his money-collecting rounds. PCs who duck 
paying fees will get to know Mulgor very well. He is dili 
gent, inexorable, and never forgets a face, a name, or an 
unpaid fee. Those who slip out of Waterdeep without 
paying and return later will be confronted by a patient, 
courteous Mulgor (even after a number of years, as a few 
members of the Company of Crazed Venturers can 
attest!). Mulgor also serves as clergy of Tyr in officiating 
at ceremonies for the paladins and other followers of Tyr 
in the city, which are held at the Palace for the conve 
nience of Piergeiron. (The clergy at the Halls of Justice 
has attempted to get Mulgor to abandon his commission 
with the city and join them, but he has turned them 
down at every turn for the past four years.) Mulgor lives 
in apartments in the Palace, one of the few who actually 
lives there aside from Piergeiron and his daughter. 


ALeewa PaladtwsTaR 

Game Data: LG hf W10; DEX 16, INT 18, WIS 16, CHA 
16. 

Description: Aleena would be considered one of the most 
beautiful women in Waterdeep today, were she not so 
intimidating. Among the attributes she shares with her 
father Piergeiron are her finely chiseled features, bright, 
unflinching eyes of olive green, a reclusive, thoughtful 
nature, and a deeply-ingrained sense of justice and law; 
she is also as tall as her father, and once disguised herself 
as him by wearing his full armor. From her mother, 
Aleena gets her curly auburn locks, her grace and poise, 
and a penchant for magic. 

Notes: Acknowledged as the Open Lord's daughter, 
Aleena was smothered by her over-protective father 
and his attempts to ensure her safety. One day, she 
happened upon one of the secret tunnels linking the 
Palace of Waterdeep to Blackstaff Tower and she 
introduced herself to Khelben's lady, Laeral Silver- 
hand; from that point on, she and Laeral became fast 
friends, and Laeral and Khelben secretly taught 
Aleena magic (a gift she mastered swiftly). Now an 
accomplished mage, she is less impetuous than she was 
in her youth, but still wishes to make more of a differ 
ence for Waterdeep by joining Force Grey, a move 
adamantly forbidden by her father. 

Rhazbos Robbrbdle 

Game Data: CG hm F6; STR 16, INT 16. 

Description: Rhazbos, a former mercenary and experienced 
caravan master, is now a stout, jolly man of advancing 
years, too busy (and fat) to take to the road on adven 
tures any more. 

Notes: Rhazbos makes his living breeding and training 
horses in Waterdeep, and he is a ranking member of the 
Stablemasters' and Farriers' Guild. He also owns and 
operates a large and successful stables on Wall Street 
and Caravan Street in Southern Ward. He was once an 
adventurer, and he may take up to two weeks (at the 
most) off at a stretch to tutor fighters if they offer him 
enough monetary incentive, including meals, and have 
a place (the courtyard of a private house, for example, or 
a warehouse) where he can stay. 


80 



SavewgRjff 

Game Data: LG hm W19; DEX 16, INT 18, WIS 16. 
Description: From looking at Savengriff's plain features 
and thin body, one would little suspect the amount of 
power he wields. While not sickly, Savengriff is gaunt 
and his skin often looks pale against his dark brown hair 
and beard and hazel eyes. 

Notes: The least powerful of the Company of Crazed 
Venturers' prominent magic users, Savengriff perished 
while battling a beholder. Unbeknownst to the Com 
pany, Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun had recruited 
Savengriff to be a member of the Harpers, and traced 
Savengriff's remains by means of a certain amulet 
Khelben had given the unfortunate mage. Khelben, 
Mirt, Durnan, Piergeiron, Kitten, and the bard Shalar 
Simgulphin, as well as several of Khelben's apprentices 
and colleagues-in-magery, destroyed the beholder and 
retrieved Savengriff's remains; by the magic of allied 
clerics, Savengriff was restored to life. He became a 
loyal apprentice of Khelben-and in time, a loyal 
agent of the Harpers and a mage of accomplishment, 
creating the wand of banishment (see below), of which 
he made over a dozen. One he took with him, one he 
gave to Khelben, and others he gave to High Lady 
Alustriel of Silverymoon, Laeral Silverhand, and other 
mages of the North who were Harpers. He is thought 
to have hidden away at least one wand ere he took to 
traveling about Waterdeep, the North, and other 
planes to do the Harpers' business. Upon such mysteri 
ous errands, he may be encountered anywhere in, 
under, or near Waterdeep, at any time. He will be mag 
ically prepared for, and expecting, trouble. 

Wand of Banishment 

This wand is usable only by magic-users; it cannot be 
recharged, and each use (effective or not) drains one 
charge. Upon command, a needle-thin ray of flickering 
green light shoots from the wand's tip up to 40' distant, 
striking a single target creature (the target is allowed a 
save vs. spell at a -1 penalty; a successful save means the 
ray missed). Creatures struck by the ray are affected as 
follows: 

• A summoned creature (from another plane) is instantly 
banished back to its own plane; it must save vs. wands at 
-4 to remain on its current plane. If it does remain, it is 
held for one round. 


• A creature summoned from elsewhere on the Prime 
Material Plane (by such spells as monster summoning or 
call woodland beings) is driven away; it will leave instantly 
at a normal movement rate, stopping only to defend itself 
if attacked, and not return. 

. A hostile creature of 2+2 Hit Dice or less (including 
enemy familiars and homonculi) is affected as if by a 
repulsion spell, for four rounds. The target is allowed a 
save vs. wands; if successful, the repulsion lasts for only 
two rounds. 

• A hostile creature of more than 2+2 Hit Dice must save 
vs. wands at -4; if successful, it is slowed for 2-5 (at ran 
dom) rounds (if the save is successful, the target creature 
is unaffected). 

. By draining six charges at once (the power will not 
work if less than six are left, but any attempt will 
exhaust the wand anyway), the wielder of the wand 
may attempt to repel any other wands within 40'. All 
wands are allowed a save vs. lightning on the Item Sav 
ing Throws table in the DUNGEON MASTER Guide 
at a -3 penalty; if successful, they are unaffected. Any 
affected wands will be instantly, and violently, pushed 
away from the wand of banishment for 100'-600' dis 
tance, and held at that distance for 1-4 rounds. Wands 
carried in the hand or belt will tear free; wands in back 
packs and chests will drag the owner or item with 
them-unless very heavy or bulky, in which case the 
wand will smash about within the item, perhaps being 
destroyed. Note that wands in extra-dimensional spaces 
(such as a bug of holding or that produced by a rope trick 
spell) are immune from this effect. 

Only one creature can be attacked with a wand of 
banishment per round; the ray will only affect one crea 
ture at a time, although it may affect any number of 
wands. Any given creature can be affected by any par 
ticular wand of banishment only once every 12 hours; a 
creature cannot be repeatedly attacked, or attacked a 
second time or with a different function of the wand, if 
an initial attack fails. Subsequent attempts will merely 
waste charges; a creature that has saved once against 
the wand (or endured one successful attack) cannot be 
affected by the wand again until the dweomer built up 
around the creature by the wand dissipates (which takes 
12 hours). 




81 



TamTuss Sh)el6 sum 

Game Data: NG hm R9; STR 16, CON 16. 

Description: Tall, broad-shouldered, and barrel-chested, 
Tantuss is an imposing figure in every physical sense, his 
black hair and bushy beard wildly disheveled by the 
wind. Despite his obvious size and power, he is very 
sheepish around the priestesses at the Shrines of Nature, 
constantly bowing his head in devout prayer (and to 
prevent any from seeing him blush). 

Notes: Tantuss makes a living as an adventurer, guiding 
caravans (and defending them against evil) in the 
North, and is a Harper and devout servant of Mielikki; 
he often carries messages to and from the Lady's Hands 
at the shrine of Mielikki in Waterdeep (communica 
tions with other servants of the Lady of the Forest all 
across the North). He is widely traveled and will gladly 
hire himself out as a guide, although he will not enter 
tombs or private homes in the name of adventure (ruins 
and the subterranean lairs of evil creatures are another 
matter). Tantuss will also tutor rangers for small fees, 
which he will use to live on or improve his equipment; 
most of his money goes to the Shrines of Nature for 
their continuance and service to Mielikki. Tantuss has 
no magical items, and rarely carries more than 20 pieces 
of gold. 

ShyKizhiz 

Game Data: NG hf F0; DEX 16, CHA 16. 

Description: Shyrrhr is tall, elegant, soft-spoken, and 
kind, with a usually-hidden, light sense of humor. Per 
ceptive beyond her years, Shyrrhr usually knows how 
to set someone immediately at ease. Impeccably 
dressed and groomed at all times, her green eyes and 
long, bronze-hued hair are always complemented by 
her attire. Shyrrhr is graceful and quiet of movement, 
and can drink great amounts of wine or spirits without 
ill effect or intoxication, thanks to many years of 
Court service. 

Notes: Shyrrhr is a courtesan of the Palace, one of the 
escorts Piergeiron provides for diplomatic guests. She 
specializes in chaperoning shy or uncertain human or 
half-elven women, and elves of both sexes. Shyrrhr 
knows both spoken and written elvish, and is familiar 
with the customs, culture, courtesies, and religion of 
the various sorts of elves, even sea elves. She is intelli 
gent, perceptive, and possessed of very good hearing 
and attention to "body language," and learns far more 


from most guests than they realize. Although not a 
member of any of Waterdeep's noble families (she was 
born, surprisingly, in Deepingdale far to the east), 
Shyrrhr is accorded noble status in Waterdeep, has the 
title "Lady of the Court," and lives in a house on 
Waterdeep Way (City Map Location C41). (Thieves 
visiting it will be surprised to discover that she has 
nice wines, many nice gems, about 20 gp, and little 
else; Piergeiron provides for her needs out of the 
Palace purse.) Shyrrhr reports to Piergeiron, in pri 
vate, all she learns, and the two are good friends, 
trusting each other absolutely. 

SbalaR S)mguLpb)hJ 

Game Data: NG hm(f) F9; STR 17, DEX 16, INT 16, 
CHA 16. 

Description: Shalar is a friend of the Lords of Waterdeep, 
and a Harper. Only a few members of these two groups 
know that this slim, graceful man with the tenor singing 
voice and the red beard is actually a woman. Thanks to 
padding and hairy cantrips cast every so often by a 
kindly Khelben, Shalar's beard is real, and she appears 
male in build. Shalar has dressed and acted like a man 
since childhood in order to enlist as a fighting-man and 
escape a cruel father and a boring existence in a small 
village in Tethyr. She enjoys the freedom of action that 
her charade gives her. 

Notes: Shalar has a kind heart and a keen sense of 
humor, but a quick temper. She knows the back alleys 
and sewers of Waterdeep well, and her contacts count 
among the most powerful people in the City of Splen 
dors. Shalar goes her own way in Waterdeep and does 
not keep a high profile, although she earns a regular 
living entertaining patrons with her songs at The Inn 
of the Dripping Dagger (City Map Location T3) and 
many taverns in the City. Shalar will not adventure 
with PCs, save to go on a rescue mission, at a high 
price. She will tutor PCs in bardic skills for reason 
able fees. She will aid fellow Harpers to the limits of 
her abilities, and will always aid the injured or penni 
less with meals, whatever healing she can arrange, 
and a place to hide or rest. Shalar has a luck blade +1 
and several potions of extra-healing with her at almost 
all times. 


82 


My^myTh SpIeMdoM 

Game Data: LN hm F10; STR 18(06), WIS 16. 

Description: Always clad in chain mail with a black 
tabard, Myrmith's build is light and disarming, but his 
strength is easily proven in combat. Aside from a ragged 
scar across his forehead, Myrmith is a handsome, clean 
shaven man with light brown, curly hair and light blue 
eyes. He is always alert and ready for action, even when 
he seems distracted or totally unprepared. (One story 
tells of him pinning someone to a wall by their neck 
lace^) with a thrown dagger, all the while laughing 
uproariously at a joke.) 

Notes: Myrmith is a "captain-at-arms" (a professional tutor 
of fighters) who will train warriors (and all others) in 
the use of certain weapons (DM's choice, as long as at 
least one type of sword, one pole arm, and a dagger are 
involved). Myrmith does not specialize in any particular 
weapon, but rather tries to master the greatest variety of 
weapons possible. Myrmith's fees are steep, but his train 
ing is good. His house is on Spindle Street (City Map 
Location T5), and he is always busy training clients 
there. A wait of one or two weeks may be necessary for a 
fighter wishing the intensive training involved, unless 
that fighter is willing to pay double for Myrmith to risk 
the displeasure (and possible loss) of another client. 

SU(T)6R 

Game Data: CE hm P8 of Talos; STR 16, WIS 18, CHA 
16. 

Description: This tall, slim, dusky-skinned and dark haired 
man is a rich trader out of Calimshan. He is always clad 
in purple robes, and wears an excessive amount of silver 
jewelry. When he smiles to people, "he seems like a 
shark, and you're prey . . .". 

Notes: Sumer appears in Waterdeep with a bodyguard of 
five men, and his crony, Greeme (CE hm F6), who uses 
poisoned weapons. Sumer keeps a low profile and does 
not cause public trouble, but he kills at least one per 
son-for the glory of Talos the Destroyer-on each visit; 
he favors adventurers as targets, because if they vanish, 
there is less surprise and outcry, and they often have 
cash or magical treasure he can use. Sumer will follow 
PCs anywhere around or under the city, and attack 
when they are weak or resting. He will flee if his life is 
threatened, sacrificing his guards to make a safe escape. 
Sumer has no magical items except an amulet of proof 
against detection and location. 


Mb ate. SzeLTuwe 

Game Data: NG hf W18; DEX 17, INT 18, CHA 16. 

Description: In her own form, Mhair is a petite, lithe 
woman with long, glossy black hair and deep, royal blue 
eyes. She often wanders the city in the illusory guise of 
an old crone, surreptitiously checking to see what kind 
of treatment she receives (and often having to teach 
arrogant adventurers who tease her a lesson or three on 
how to treat people). 

Notes: Lady Master of the Order Mhair Szeltune is the 
head of the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors, 
the mages' guild of Waterdeep. A serene, efficient lady 
of iron will and persistence, Mhair can be a kind and 
loyal friend or a harsh, dangerous enemy. Unlike many 
of the other guild masters in the city, Mhair is an 
uncanny judge of character and has never assessed any 
one wrongly in the politics and power-plays among (and 
within) the guilds. 

Zabbas TbuuL 

Game Data: NE em W6/T7; DEX 18, INT 17. 

Description: Oily is the single word that best describes this 
little weasel of a man. His black hair pulled back into a 
ponytail, Zabbas' face always shines with sweat and oil. 
A fawning deference to clients is punctuated by a nasal 
voice that is grating to any ear. This is Zabbas' main face 
in Waterdeep; in Skullport, he is a dapper, whispery 
man who exudes confidence and danger, and he has a 
reputation for slow, awful vengeance. His sycophant's 
disguise merely makes him ignored as a danger by the 
watch and others. 

Notes: This soft-spoken villain keeps a low profile in 
Waterdeep, where he poses as a minor mage willing to 
tutor, sell scrolls (lst-level spells only), and adventure 
with a party, if the price is right. He has other unmen 
tioned careers: One as a thief, and another as a messen 
ger and slaveship booking agent operating between 
Skullport and Waterdeep. Zabbas works best from 
behind the scenes, as a constant source of thefts, brawls, 
and shady adventures. 

Zabbas is very good at arranging alibis. One of his best 
is being jailed by the watch for apparently drunken 
carousing, and using his skills to slip out of the cell. 
Leaving his gear behind with a snoring audible glamer, he 
makes a theft, hiding the loot before slipping back into 
jail. He "can't be the thief who stole that noblewoman's 
jewels" since he was "in a cell all the time!" 




YuL<3ak. 

Game Data: N hm P(Sp - Druid)5 of Silvanus; DEX16, 
WIS 16, CHA17. 

Description: Quite the contrast to the frightened, bewil 
dered young man who fled north ten years ago to escape 
death at the hands of Tethyrian mobs, Yuldar is now a 
quietly poised holy man of Silvanus with his plain, 
brown robes and deep mahogany-hued beard and long 
hair. His deep, bass voice booms and drowns out all but 
the loudest sounds. 

Notes: Yuldar was a cousin of Lord Llistiin of Tethyr, who 
was killed by a rival, who in turn took the lordship and 
then started slaying all relatives of the former lord (to 
prevent anyone from raising armies to dispute his rule). 
Yuldar fled to the Savage Frontier to hide from this 
vengeful lord, and pretended to be an adventurer arriv 
ing in Waterdeep. Surprisingly, his disguise as a druid 
actually proved to be his life's calling, and he discovered 
that a childhood love of the local woods became a 
strong loyalty to Silvanus. After nine years in the 
wilderness with a band of adventurers (for his own 
safety), Yuldar has returned to Waterdeep for an 
extended visit at the shrine of Silvanus; Yuldar seeks a 
sign from Silvanus about his latest tasks, no longer 
doubting his place here in the North, nor even wishing 
(as he once did) to return to Tethyr. If agents of Tethyr 
somehow get close to tracking him down, Yuldar will be 
eager to join any band of adventurers leaving the city, 
on any terms. 



VATlblZACe ZaaL^sj 

Game Data: LN hm F10; STR 16, DEX 16. 

Description: Varbrace is a short, feisty, muscular man (5' 
5"), but any who doubt his fighting skill are soon laid 
out flat on the ground, facing the point of his sword! 
Slightly unkempt but very amiable, Varbrace is proud of 
the tattoo of Tempus's symbol on his left arm, and shows 
it (and his muscular physique) off every chance he gets. 
(The barmaids at the Dripping Dagger place bets on 
how soon Varbrace will challenge someone to an arm- 
wrestle after he enters). 

Notes: This fighter makes his living as a professional tutor 
of fighters, or "captain-at-arms," and is quite willing to 
do this (upon payment of the proper fees) for player 
characters. (DMs should determine the weapons Var 
brace has mastered, for minimal overlap with those that 
his competitor Myrmith Splendon employs.) He teaches 
his students to use any of their special traits to their best 
advantage (his shortness and agility allow him to more 
easily dodge blows than large, burly fighters). Varbrace 
does not deal again with those who try to trick or cheat 
him. He rooms at the Inn of the Dripping Dagger (City 
Map Location T3), and trains people in the City of the 
Dead (or, if the watch objects, outside the walls near 
River Gate). Varbrace will not go on adventures - he 
considers the risks too high for the potential profits. 

ALuatz Zewdos 

Game Data: CG hm R6; STR 17, CON 17. 

Description: Aluar is a quiet man with a muscular build, 
an aquiline, hawklike face, and a severe hatred for evil 
creatures, especially drow. He wears his long gray hair in 
a ponytail, and he sports a neatly-trimmed moustache. 
He can often be found sitting alone, polishing his sword 
(a sword of dancing given to him by a grateful noble 
whose life he saved). 

Notes: Aluar can be encountered often in the inns and 
taverns of Waterdeep, where he offers himself as a 
guide or caravan guard (fee: 1 sp/day plus food) for any 
traveling in the North. Aluar will go as far east as 
Westgate, as far north as the mountains allow, and as 
far south as Amn. He enjoys a good fight, but he will 
not stay with adventurers who wantonly slay wildlife 
that does not menace them or that they do not intend 
to eat, or those who fell trees or burn brush without 
reason. He will readily tutor other rangers and other 
parties interested in woodcraft. 


84 




Chxpten. Siy: 

Enemies of the 

C)Ty 

ho are the enemies of the City of Splendors, my good Khelben? On any 
given day, I could choose from a number of guild musters, foreign pow 
ers, semiorganized thieves, random monsters, and many others, for they 
are all out to undermine the Lords Ride and establish their own. On cer 
tain days, I daresay I might even consider you an enemy to our fair city, 
with your spiderlike webs of intrigue. And this all but ignores the veritable powder keg of danger 
beneath our feet in Halaster's Halls! My fellow Lords, the definition of what constitutes an 
enemy to Water deep) changes more often than fair Larissa changes her shift! The problem 
remains - what are we to do of it?" 

-Sammereza Sulphontis, in a meeting of the Lords, circa 1359 



Over the years, since Waterdeep's founding, many have tried to usurp the Lords of 
Waterdeep and their lawful, just rule. Many failed, and those few who succeeded 
brought their own ruin down upon themselves. Waterdeep has survived plagues, sieges, 
wars, and even the visitations of three gods! Much of the city's stability and survival 
stems from its secret Lords and their hidden methods to undermine the efforts of those 
who would ruin Waterdeep for their own selfish ends. This chapter delineates the major 
evil power groups organized against the Lords' Rule; not all are known of, but all incur 
strife in the shadows. 

The Knights of The Shield 

T his group of merchants, nobles, and other hidden individuals located in Amn, 
Tethyr, and Baldur's Gate (as well as a few secret enclaves in Waterdeep itself) 
seeks to manipulate the politics and money of the Sword Coast to its advantage. A sec 
ondary goal (but one important to a number of Knights) is the infiltration of one of the 
members into the Lords of Waterdeep. 

The Lords of Waterdeep have foiled the plans of this group on several occasions in 
the past, their most recent clash occurring in the Year of the Wave (1364 DR, 332 
NR). Over several months. Lady Lucia Thione claimed to be a Lord of Waterdeep to 
her allies, and she and Lord Hhune of Tethyr were responsible for savage attacks on 
both Larissa Neathal and Khelben Arunsun; they also planned the death of Caladorn, 
but their plans-along with those of their ally, an ancient, vengeful bard named Gar 
net-were disrupted through the actions of Danilo Thann and his partners (including, 
oddly enough, Elaith Craulnobur). While this exercise was a failure and resulted in 
their agent's exile from Waterdeep, Lord Hhune and Lady Thione have confirmed the 
identities of at least three of the secret Lords: Caladorn, Khelben, and Larissa. This 
information is privy only to them, and may not be common knowledge among the 













group. Lady Thione's future is unknown; at last sighting, 
she was a prisoner of Lord Hhune, who planned to take her 
to Tethyr as one of the old noble lineage -and Tethyrians 
kill anyone with ties to the former royal families. 

The aims, real power, and precise activities of this group 
are largely unknown, though their guises as merchants and 
nobles serve them well to infiltrate places and perform 
quick attacks and assassinations (as the members are rarely 
seen without a contingent of bodyguards (F2)). It is 
unknown where this group came into being, who heads it, 
or what holds it together; investigations into such matters 
are, of course, fraught with peril. 

As with many other secret societies throughout the 
Realms, there are more rumors than facts about the 
Knights of the Shield. Among the elves, from whom this 
rumor spread to various Sword Coast sages and adventurers, 
rumors place a disguised evil being from the lower planes at 
the head of this group; names and the exact type of being 
change with each telling (the most common stories men 
tion a leader known as Charsultketh, a marilith tanar'ri). 
Other rumors tie them farther south, hinting at connec 
tions with Calimshan (or even further south to Zakhara) 
and a powerful cadre of genies ruling the Knights through 
human agents. 

Among the few facts known about this group are a lim 
ited number of members. While some may be dead (due to 
the botched activities in Waterdeep three years past), the 
last confirmed members of the Knights included: 

• Lord Bormul of Amn (LE hm FO); 

• Lord Hhune of Tethyr (NE hm F8); 

• Kestor, a merchant of Baldur's Gate (CE hem FO); 

• Morntel of Amn, merchant and son of a previously slain 
member (CE hm FO); 

• Piyrathur, a caravan-master of Iriaebor (CN hm T3); 

• Lady Thione of Waterdeep, exiled and presumed slain 
(CE hf FO); and 

• Tuth of Baldur's Gate (CE hm Dual-T3/F7). 

The Shad>ouj Thieves 

O nce the thieves' guild of Waterdeep long years ago, 
the Shadow Thieves are now a wide-ranging guild of 
spies, thieves, and assassins involved in any number of evil- 
aligned, prosperous ventures. Unlike most thieves' guilds, 
the Shadow Thieves are no longer limited to one city, and 
their operations span the entire length of the Sword Coast 
(with some rare inland venues in Mirabar and Triboar). 

The Shadow Thieves maintain a primary base in 


Athkatla, in Amn, where they have an impressive training 
complex for the guild-sponsored assassins. Secondary bases 
have recently cropped up in Baldur's Gate and Ruathym, 
though these are secretive ventures disguised as warehouses 
and properties of member merchants. 

Though the act happened over 60 winters ago, the 
Shadow Thieves' eradication and expulsion from Waterdeep 
by its Lords still gives the group its primary motivation: Kill 
the Lords of Waterdeep. The Shadow Thieves' assassins are 
trained with the eventual aim of slaying the Lords of Water- 
deep, and are experts at finding ways to neutralize wizards. 
Lhestyn Arunsun, the Masked Lady and later the third Open 
Lord of Waterdeep, was the primary agent of the thieves' 
guild's downfall; as a result, special attention is granted to 
the Arunsun family and any of their relations (regardless of 
their ties to the Lords), and the Shadow Thieves will pay 
handsomely for their deaths. It is for this very reason that 
Lady Cassandra Thann, Zelphar Arunsun's daughter, has not 
left Waterdeep in over 40 years. 

Of late, the Shadow Thieves seem to be allied with the 
merchant-kings of Amn in a joint effort to disrupt Water- 
deep, Amn's primary trade rival. Under the terms of their 
alliance, each group in turn leaves the other to its own 
business, undisturbed (much to the relief of the ever-para- 
noid merchant-kings, who previously worried about the 
Shadow Thieves' hidden agendas and assassinations). 

The mark of the Shadow Thieves has not altered in over 
a century, since their creation in Waterdeep during the 
Year of the Raging Flame (1255 DR, 223 NR); it is a black 
silk mask impaled upon a stiletto blade (usually used in 
assassinations, or left behind at the scene if a garrotte or 
poison is employed instead). One other mark that many 
Waterdhavians remember from years past was the grisly 
leaving of a single, severed human foot (signifying a failed 
assassination attempt and usually the death of that assassin, 
whose foot is left at the scene). 

Over the years, any members of the Shadow Thieves 
that became known to the Lords of Waterdeep or their 
agents swiftly joined the ranks of the deceased. However, 
recent developments have given the Shadow Thieves 
chances to place some agents back into the city. Members, 
none confirmed but all suspected, include: 

. "Black Viper" (CE hf T13); 

. Androm Kherr, a seacaptain of Ruathym (NE hm F4); 

• Alek Lenter (NE hm T3), see Adventurer's Guide and 
Secrets of the City for more; 

. Maknis, a shipping agent of Waterdeep (LE hm FO); 

• Marune (CE hm W17+?); 







• Ressic Ophal, a spice merchant of Amn and alleged 
guild master (LE hm T17); 

. Reoke Segyrnn, merchant of Waterdeep (CN(E) hm 
FO); and 

• Yladhra the Grim of Myratma (CE hef W(D)12). 

The UwseeKi 

V ery little is known of this group or its motives by the 
Lords and various power players of Waterdeep. The 
majority of the city's natives are blissfully unaware that this 
group exists at all, but its actions are starting to be felt, 
slowly but surely. 

The Unseen is a consortium of shapechangers, thieves, 
illusionists, and assassins that is attempting to quietly sup 
plant various powerful people within Waterdeep (by replac 
ing them with doppelgangers and other shapechangers) and 
use their positions and influence to help themselves to the 
power, money, and prestige. After gaining a strong foothold 
in Waterdeep, Hlaavin plans on expanding the Unseen's 
power base slowly until they control key powers in Mirabar, 
Luskan, and Silverymoon. 

The infiltration of Waterdeep began over 20 years ago, 
and has slowly progressed to this day. Hlaavin was the first 
doppelganger to gain his great size and power (through 
unknown means, though Pharem believes it has something 
to do with either the Rat Hills or Skullport, two of 
Hlaavin's original haunts), and he soon began leading the 
doppelgangers who lived in the Rat Hills. With his 
enhanced intelligence and increased disguise abilities, 
Hlaavin and his doppelgangers ambushed a small party of 
travelers heading toward the city. Using their gold and 
their identities, they purchased what would become the 
Hanging Lantern festhall (City Map Location D22) and 
have since been partially operating in the city since then. 

Habitual customers from the Watchful Order soon 
deduced what the escorts were at this festhall, and Hlaavin 
worked out arrangements with the guild to protect his 
secrets. Hlaavin planned on quietly eliminating those who 
knew of the festhall's nature, but a wizard with a loud mouth 
named Volo revealed the secret to all who could read in his 
Guide to Waterdeep; Volo is still a primary target of the 
Unseen, should he ever set foot in the City of Splendors 
again. Since Volo's Guide exposed the Hanging Lantern, 
however, the crowds have only increased due to curiosity 
(and need of a quiet place to dispose of rivals). 

One of Hlaavin's first attempts at infiltrating the upper 
echelons of power in Waterdeep was a failure, resulting in 


the death of Flaern Cragsmere, heir to the Cragsmere noble 
family (for more information, see the "Adventure Hooks" 
section of the Undemountain Adventures book in the Ruins 
of Undermountain set). After that near-ruin, Hlaavin and 
his lieutenants tried to steer far away from any potential 
interference by adventurers. The Unseen soon abandoned 
the practice of imitating direct agents involved in kidnap 
ing, but this incident led them to their operating proce 
dures that stand to this day: Use unknowing human pawns 
to bring your prey to ground and do the work whenever 
possible, thus avoiding any foul play being traced to your 
identity, and never imitate someone whose presence can 
not be explained or corroborated elsewhere. 

Hlaavin and his doppelgangers operated out of the Rat 
Hills and the sewers of Waterdeep for over a decade. By 
habitually allowing himself to be seen prowling about the 
Rat Hills over the years, the guard and the Lords thought 
the doppelgangers were carefully contained outside the city, 
instead of being in their midst. With the Rat Hills Confla 
gration, the Unseen were fully driven into the city, and 
their main meetings now take place in highly secret rooms 
within the sewers. (Hlaavin himself keeps multiple safe- 
houses in the sewers, the city, and in the Dungeon of the 
Crypt under the City of the Dead.) 

The various shapechangers have infiltrated a number of 
other power groups in Waterdeep, from the guilds to the 
other illicit groups like the Xanathar Thieves' Guild, all 
without detection and suspicion. None of the Unseen agents 
stay in one particular identity for much longer than a tenday; 
if folk are not readily available, they are less likely to be 
missed when the Unseen are elsewhere. Over the past year 
since the inferno at the Rat Hills drove them into the city, 
the Unseen's agents have killed and replaced 37 people of 
varying degrees of influence. The massacre of the Phaulkon 
caravan was created by a doppelganger who, disguised as a 
gnoll, incited the Hoar Fang pack to attack the caravan; 
after the attack, the doppelganger removed the heads of the 
fallen dead in order to absorb some knowledge of the 
Phaulkon nobles and other various information. Hlaavin 
slew the bungler for operating so openly and brazenly (but 
not until he had gleaned all the information from him). 

The Unseen are, in fact, a collection of lesser and greater 
doppelgangers (each with various identities that are now 
theirs alone), greater leucrotta (see MONSTROUS 
COMPENDIUM pages), and human agents. Listed below 
are some of the shapechanging members (with some identi 
ties and powers) and a few other Unseen agents: 

Hlaavin (NE greater doppelganger); 



• "The Black Admiral" (LE hm T9), the mysterious leader 
of a rogue pirate fleet (see Campaign Guide to the City, 
Chapter Two); 

. Chievel (LN hm FO), the major-domo of the Kothont 
villa and right-hand-man of Lord Kothont (Hlaavin's 
current identity of choice); 

• Lady Cyrtue (CE hf FO), owner of the Hanging Lantern 
festhall (D22); 

• Gaundos (CN hm W(I)8), a paranoid illusionist with a 
penchant for changing faces (for more information, see 
Chapter Five); and 

• Vahje (NE hm W16), a former member of the Watchful 
Order, now hunted in Waterdeep due to the events at 
Trolltide (see Chapter Six of the Adventurer's Guide to 
the City). 

Khnarek (NE greater doppelganger); 

• Terl Fadesmar (LN hf W6), watch-wizard in Dock Ward; 

• Ulik Frescem (LG hm F3), guard member (primary post: 
City of the Dead); 

• Captain Kullerras (CN hm F6), one of the captains 
under the Black Admiral; and 

• Acolyte Respen (NG hm P2 of Selune), minor priest in 
the House of the Moon. 

Ptola (NE greater doppelganger); 

• Kamlann (N hm FO), a member of the Dungsweepers' 
Guild; and 

• Murklar (LG hm FO), penitent hunchback and janitor of 
the Wyvern's Rest inn ($2 on the City Maps). 

Gonehl (CE doppelganger); 

Fhang (CE doppelganger); 

Uhkra (NE greater leucrotta); 

Kkruq (NE greater leucrotta); 

Pharem Ellstric (CE hm W(I)9): Gaundos' former ally 
who betrayed and killed him to serve Hlaavin, Pharem is 
the only human who knows Hlaavin's (and his 
henchmen's) true nature, and acts as the "head of the oper 
ation" (as far as any human agents know, but is really just a 
go-between for Hlaavin); 

Kerrigan Ellstric (NE hm Til): the chief assassin of the 
Unseen, Kerrigan is also Pharem's younger brother; 

Necrom Regescar (LE halfm T8); 

Tomas Siohcen (NE hm P3 of Cyric); and 
Lasster Vhenlok (CE hm F5). 


The XawaTh ak. 
Thieves' Guild 

P rimarily due to the efforts of Lhestyn, the "Masked 
Lady," and the guild's own arrogance and open opera 
tions, Waterdeep's "official" thieves' guild (the Shadow 
Thieves) was crushed by the Lords and driven from the city 
years ago. This did not end thievery and crime in the city, 
but simply drove it further into the shadows, splintering it 
into hundreds of small independent operations. Decades 
after the fall of the Shadow Thieves, the major advocate 
and support of these operations is the Xanathar, a name 
whispered by few but truly understood by only a handful of 
people up and down the Sword Coast. 

Xanathar is a collector of information from the Realms 
above and below, again through trusted third parties, by 
which it makes its plans. As it always has in the past, the 
Xanathar remains cloaked in secrecy, hidden behind a mul 
titude of aliases and powerful magical defenses. Rather than 
operating a strict Thieves' Guild, Xanathar works every 
thing with freelance thieves and mercenaries, operating 
through third and fourth parties in order prevent the agents 
from revealing its whereabouts, if caught. In fact, only its 
eight lieutenants know that the Xanathar is, in fact, an 
elder orb beholder once known as the Eye; many of its 
operatives within Waterdeep and Skullport do not even 
realize that the Xanathar is a beholder. 

Xanathar makes his home in a opulent chamber that is 
hidden behind a secret door leading from the sewers of 
Waterdeep. His main chamber has yet to be located by the 
forces of law, and, indeed, few know of its very existence in 
the city, including the Lords. In addition, new chambers 
and access points continue to be added to the sewers 
stronghold where it lives, allowing the Xanathar to reach 
its other holdings in Skullport, Undermountain, and other 
places. Xanathar's abode can be reached through a number 
of trapped passages, which only its seven lieutenants know 
the correct passage. (Of the eight, Randulaith, Avaereene, 
and Ahmaergo know of two different teleport gates that can 
take them directly to the Xanathar's lair.) Other interlopers 
are kept as pets briefly, wrung dry for information, then dis 
patched (for Xanathar's appetite is enormous). The series of 
chambers in Xanathar's lair contains a number of treasure 
vaults and libraries (with information by Slink written in a 
code). Xanathar itself reclines in a clear glass tank of 
scented water when not planning criminal activities. It is 
said that Xanathar has the best knowledge of the sewers 





88 



and their entrance both into the major citadels and into 
Undermountain as well. 

It is confident of both its power and its secrecy from the 
Lords, and is willing to go to great lengths to maintain that 
secrecy. Operatives who begin to wonder who is giving the 
final orders get a midnight visit from an enforcement gang. 
(Sian and his men only break limbs, if the operative is still 
useful; Colstan is sent with his ritual slayers if the nosy 
operative is no longer needed. . . .) Xanathar is sure that 
the Lords would destroy the cellars stone by stone to find 
out where its lair is, if they knew where it existed. 
Xanathar's libraries keep extensive track of the abilities and 
weaknesses of the mages of Waterdeep. 

Xanathar's greatest defense is its secrecy. "If they do not 
ask the right questions, they do not get the right answers" 
is its comment on spellcasters seeking evil in the city. In 
addition to nondetection defenses in lair, Xanathar makes 
sure that its operation cannot be considered a true 
"Thieves' Guild," so it may chuckle over the Lords, secure 
in their knowledge that no such organization exists, while 
Xanathar grows rich on their lack of knowledge. 

XawaTbaR awd h)$ UeuTewawTs 

The Xanathar Thieves' Guild, since it absorbed the Eye's 
slave trade in and around Skullport, is now larger and more 
powerful than ever. Xanathar maintains lieutenants from 
the Hand as well as the original Xanathar's underlings; cur 
rently, these eight persons know their master's true identity 
and form, but they appear as the powers behind their vari 
ous operations (diverting attention from the mastermind). 
The lieutenants of the Xanathar Thieves' Guild are the fol 
lowing characters. 

Ahmaergo (LE dm F9; STR 18(10), CON 19, WIS 16): 
Responsibilities - Slavery, Third of the Hand. Ahmaergo poses 
as the controller of the Eye's former holdings on Under 
mountain's Level Three, north of Skullport. Given freedom 
to control his aspects of the Xanathar's holdings, 
Ahmaergo has gotten a bit arrogant in Skullport, but fre 
quent visits from Avaereene (with reminders of his place in 
the operation) keep him in line. For more information on 
Ahmaergo, see Appendix Two of the Campaign Guide. 

Avaereene (LE hf Wll; DEX 18, INT 17): Responsibili 
ties - Slavery, Command of the Hand. This beautiful, cruel 
woman is a skilled mage and slaver who picks up potential 
slaves in the seamier wards of the city at night. She is the 
Xanathar's voice to his snatch-and-grab kidnaping agents, 
known as the Hand; the Hand is based in the slavery com 
pound north of Skullport on Undermountain's Level Three 


and consists of fighters of 2nd through 4th level. Avaereene 
commands great loyalty from her forces, and they will do 
anything to prevent her harm or capture. Avaereene lives 
in rooms in North Ward, and she has an impressive cache 
of magical items and spellbooks (including the death field 
spell, the reverse of the life field spell created by Stavros of 
the Skulls-see Chapter Seven in the Campaign Guide). 

Shindia Darkeyes (CE he (drow)f T9): Responsibilities- 
Blackmail, Extortion, Information Gathering. The personal 
favorite of the former Xanathar, Shindia is a conniving, 
opportunistic half-drow woman. While she helped 
Xanathar kill the invading beholder Utth, she was power 
less to save her master from the Eye's powerful counterat 
tack. Shindia now grudgingly works with the Eye, the new 
Xanathar, at her former tasks of blackmail and extortion; 
her information is funneled through the darker festhalls of 
Waterdeep and its more stylish parties. She bides her time, 
collecting information, all the while planning to have a 
hand in the Xanathar's downfall. 

Slink Monteskor (CE hm F0; CON 17, INT 18): 
Responsibilities - Bookkeeping, Information Gathering. Slink 
Monteskor is Xanathar's bookkeeper and main storehouse 
of information. (Slink's eidetic memory allows him to 




89 




remember everything he reads, including all the accounts 
and dealings of both Xanathars, and the goings-on within 
the city.) He has a network of thieves and snitches scat 
tered throughout Dock and South Wards, who send him 
reports through a secondary network of contacts (none of 
whom are aware they work for the Xanathar). 

Randulaith (NE hm W9; DEX 18, 1NT 18): Responsibili 
ties - Magical Defenses, Information Gathering. Formerly of 
Mirabar, Randulaith is a quiet, elegant man with a taste for 
good wine, clever jokes, and mermaids. (He uses potions of 
waterbreathing to regularly visit Waterdeep's harbors to visit 
with his "ladies of the deep.") He likes to make friends 
among beings of all races and alignments. Xanathar, know 
ing his value as a handsome, smooth-tongued negotiator 
and spy, encourages him in this. Randulaith has a secret 
dream: He wants to become a Lord of Water deep -an 
influential, behind-the-scenes Lord who wields real power. 
Due to ESP and various scrying spells, Xanathar knows and 
encourages this dream secretly. It sees this as a great advan 
tage to trade and its power, and wants Randulaith to suc 
ceed. This quiet, dapper wizard just might have the 
intelligence, perception, and wariness necessary to pull it 
off. Xanathar can hardly wait for its puppet to begin pulling 
strings of its own. 

Colstan Rhuul (LE hm P10 of Cyric; DEX 18, INT 17): 
Responsibilities-Assassinations, Second of the Hand. Colstan 
is a patient, calculating schemer, who avoids personal dan 
ger whenever he can, preferring to work at a distance 
through hired knives and behind-the-scenes manipulation. 
His favorite tactic is to send hireswords to start a brawl or 
similar incident with adventurers newly arrived in Water- 
deep, while he waits in the wings to steal unguarded 
belongings in their rooms or attack an isolated spellcaster. 
Colstan takes what magic he can, and then calls in the 
Hand to capture the adventurers. Colstan also specializes in 
assassinations, often killing lone adventurers and dedicat 
ing the kills to Cyric. Colstan prides himself on knowing 
the faces of all important (not always prominent) Waterd- 
havians, and has made a hobby of uncovering the identities 
of all of the Lords. He once knew the names of all but four 
of the Lords of Waterdeep; in the ten-year interim, maneu 
vers by Mirt, Durnan, and Kitten (and the secret expansion 
in the Lords' ranks) made him doubt if he truly knew any 
of the Lords at all.... 


Ott Steeltoes (NE dm F7/T8): Responsibilities - Smug 
gling, Thieving. Ott Steeltoes is a renegade of Ironmaster, a 
one-eyed dwarven pirate who has worked for both 
Xanathars, preferring the good pay and relative power of 
his position over a life of piracy. Ott now coordinates the 
Xanathar's smuggling operations through Skullport, and 
has become good friends with Ahmaergo (the Xanathar's 
secret slaving partner in Skullport). Unlike his work with 
the previous Xanathar, he now uses a talent for planning 
and strategy to arrange some of the more daring thefts for 
the guild, taking care there are enough agents in between 
to take the fall before any activities can be traced to him or 
Xanathar. 

Sian Thurbel (CE hm F8; STR 18(63), CON 17): 
Responsibilities - Enforcement, Mercenaries. Sian Thurbel 
is the Xanathar's mercenary leader, who arranges crimes 
of violence and "examples" to be set for any who dare 
betray the Xanathar or any of his agents. Sian enjoys 
working for the current Xanathar, since its predecessor 
only insulted him and did not "respect his talents" -the 
current Xanathar feeds him false praise to keep his loy 
alty. Of all the lieutenants, Sian believes he controls the 
most power, as he has command (through contacts) of 
nearly 100 men (including a few servants of noble 
houses); little does he realize that he is constantly 
watched by Avaereene, who is under orders to kill him if 
he moves against them. 

Xanathar (a.k.a. The Eye) (LE beholder (elder orb); 
INT 21): The Xanathar is an elder orb, an ancient 
beholder that no longer has its disintegrate and flesh to 
stone eye powers, but has full elder orb powers and can 
cast one spell each from levels 1-8 (see the beholder-kin 
entry in the Monstrous Manual). The Xanathar was for 
merly a devious beholder who controlled much of 
Waterdeep's illegal activities. Through the plots of an 
ancient beholder called the Eye (a slavelord in Under 
mountain), Xanathar was killed and the Eye took over 
its operations. Now calling itself the Xanathar (using it 
as its title), the elder orb consolidated its own opera 
tions with its predecessor's. It once viewed all humans 
and humanoids as slaves for the taking; after years of 
repeated incursions by adventurers into its caverns, it 
now has a grudging respect for them. It now uses many 
of them as agents (via its charm person ability); if facing 
a hostile character, it always questions or deals with such 
a being, learning all it can that might be turned to its 
advantage and slaying only if it must. 





90 



App&bidly Owe.* Life )w WaTetibeep, 
ok "AdvewTuRe )s WbeRe You F)tod IT" 


It's been said that a city is its people, more than buildings 
or a proud history - and this tome is filled with folk of 
Waterdeep. What's it like, though, to live in Waterdeep? 

A "normal" life, that is-not the endless parties and 
intrigue of a proud, strutting noble, or the pulses-pounding- 
in-the-shadows exploits of an adventurer running down 
back alleys a few panting steps ahead of the Watch . . . but 
the daily deeds of a balding, affable, rather fat man who 
sells stout rope and "true-forged" spikes to adventurers for a 
few silver pieces. 

This look at "normal" life focuses on a Waterdhavian 
merchant ... a shopkeeper, one of thousands in the city. 
As a Waterdhavian would say, "What the flaming sword 
has that to do with me?" Well, a look at one merchant's 
daily doings should touch on many ways of building life 
and color into Waterdeep in a campaign, so let's look at 
that fat man. Most AD&D(r) game players and Dungeon 
Masters are familiar with the doings of lords and princes- 
and the skulkings and desperate sword-swinging of adven 
turers . . . but those extremes are only the icing on a huge 
cake made up of Waterdhavians who are neither high nor 
low, but-well, in the middle. 

What does it mean to be an average Waterdhavian? The 
City of Splendors is perhaps the greatest trading city in 
Faerun, so making money is the pursuit of just about every 
one (even those who pretend to be above such things 
employ investors to ensure they can continue to lazily pre 
tend to be above money-grubbing for years to come). With 
this commerce comes visitors from far across the Realms 
(and beyond), and folk would rather turn a coin than draw 
a blade every few breaths, so tolerance of differences is 
essential in Waterdeep. So our fat man is apt to be more 
tolerant than most folk in the Realms -and to have seen 
and heard of a wider variety of folk, lifestyles, and goods. 
He's also likely to be driven by a tireless desire to make 
money that might be viewed elsewhere as greed, but is seen 
in his home city as just the way of things. 

So who is this tolerant money-grubber, anyway? Well, 
he's Fylgard "the Fat" Onister of South Ward, a dealer in 
ropes and quality fastenings, harness and trail-leathers, 
spikes, fastenings, and light tools. He lives above his shop 
on the west side of Buckle Street (half a block south of 
Sahtyra's Lane), worships Lathander and Tymora when he 


remembers to, and is a widower with three young sons who 
help him in the shop. 

Fylgard's Fine Ropes & Fastenings is open from sunrise to 
sunset from thaw to hardfreeze (and upon bellring in the 
winter). Fylgard usually sends his sons out to get "highsun- 
bite" (the mid-day meal, eaten in shifts in the back room of 
the shop) at Alamuth's Best Provender. 

Alamuth's is the first building north of Saddlers' & Har 
ness-Makers' Hall (on the east side of the Rising Ride). It is 
one of many small shops in Waterdeep known as "hot 
counters," because they serve hot food as well as premade 
wares, but provide no place to sit and eat, and no service or 
condiments-instead simply passing the goods across a 
counter (or in many cases, out through an opened window, 
right onto the street). Alamuth's is known locally as "the 
Rat Cleaver" because of the persistent rumor that ratflesh 
somehow finds its way into the meat dishes. A Rat Cleaver 
highsunbite is a stoppered clay jug of "longwater wine" (a 
watered-down blend of poor wines, concocted by ware 
houses in Dock Ward who find soured wine on their 
hands), accompanied by a handwheel of strong cheese 
(usually the sharp, many-holed "Waterdhavian" cheese- 
available wherever Aurora has one of her shops -though 
it's never known by that name in southern Waterdeep; Fyl 
gard calls it "bowshot cheese"), and chicken-and-onion 
"handpies." If business has been good, he treats his sons to 
Alamuth's specialty: spiced serpent rolls, which cost a silver 
piece each. They love the taste of them and their unavoid 
able mess: A serpent roll has a hard-glazed egg-pastry shell 
that crumbles into powder as one bites into the succulent 
interior. 

Many of the other merchants on Buckle Street work 
alone -either they have no family, or their families are off 
working elsewhere much of each day-and so they eat in 
their shops, and roving food-sellers come to them. Most of 
these sellers walk the streets with a single belly-tray 
depending from a neck-harness, and specialize in one or 
two items: Bread rolls and hand-sized cheeses; pickles and 
sausages; handpies and sprouts; nuts and sliced meats, and 
so on. These sellers bring the news and rumors of the city 
with them, every day, and so news can leap from one end of 
Waterdeep to the other in half a morning or less. The sell 
ers know that Fylgard sends out his sons, so they don't 





come in unless he hails them; they cry their wares as they 
walk, so every shopkeeper on the street knows they're pass 
ing without watching at windows. Fylgard often chats with 
one man, Rulstin, who sells eels. His sons hate eels, and 
he's not overly fond of them himself, but he likes to talk 
with Rulstin, who seems to have a better nose than most 
for what's true and what's embellishment in the news. Rul 
stin told Fylgard that folk who don't like "limp, wet" 
cooked eels sometimes like them when they've been fried 
crispy on a spit . . . and he was right. On some evenings, 
Fylgard crunches on eels thoughtfully as he plaits ropes 
until his eyes fail him, and it's time for bed. 

When sunset comes and the shop closes, Fylgard takes 
his sons out for a meal -usually at Zestra's Hot Soups 
(down on Carters' Way) for salted sprouts, soup, and hot 
sliced sausage in gravy. Then they go off to play with their 
friends, and Fylgard heads home again to braid rope-or, if 
he's restless, up to the House of Good Spirits for a little 
zzar, or to Undiber's (a private upstairs club on Sorn Street) 
to play silver sails. "Sails" is a cargo-trading game played 
down a long, narrow board (usually to the accompaniment 
of salted nuts and much ale), in which participants move 
little wooden ships up and down a representation of the 
Sword Coast, pretending to be merchant sea captains-and 
vying to amass the most gold by bringing in cargo. 

Fylgard is a member of the Most Diligent League of 
Sail-makers and Cordwainers, of course, and quite skilled 
in the making of smaller ropes-those that don't require 
the pulling strength of more than one man, or much 
space, or exotic oils for the twisting. When he grows 
lonely, Fylgard sets out on a purposeful walk (as if he's 
out on business) up through North Ward and back down 
through Sea Ward, to look at finely-dressed noblewomen 
and their lady servants. He likes to hear minstrels and 
storytellers when they come to the taverns - and takes 
his sons to hear the funny ones. Sometimes, when trade 
is slow, Fylgard buys fresh provender from the shops 
fronting Caravan Court or Fishgut Court, and bakes car 
rot, onion, and spiced mutton flatcakes. 

Fylgard puts a little money aside every winter (coins and 
trade bars hidden in a pot submerged in wastewater, under 
a loose stone behind the cellar stairs), and invests the rest 
of his profits impulsively, rather than through a guild plan 
or to the same concern each time. He dreams of retiring to 
a manor in a village somewhere warm someday-maybe in 
Tethyr, if things ever settle down there. 

Fylgard has acquired some rivals in his guild - all rope- 
makers, because he's never touched canvas or stitched sail 


in his life -notably Baershin Talnu of Talnu's Ropeworks 
on Adder Lane, Ornliir Lalthlussz of the Old Knot Shop on 
the Street of Bells, and Glaerth Homblestaum of Merlook 
Nets & Knotware on Net Street. Aside from these com 
petitors, Fylgard has almost no enemies he knows of-he's 
the sort of man who's liked by all, but has few close friends. 

One friend is the candlemaker Jastra Blynthard, of Jas- 
tra's Flame of Hope shop on Tulmaster's Street; both now 
single, they often meet to chat and drink, but are not 
romantically inclined towards each other. Recently, Jastra 
has hinted she's in some sort of trouble-but she doesn't 
invite prying, and hasn't volunteered any clear informa 
tion. She's also growing restless of the grubbing after coins 
that is life for most in South Ward, and has begun to seek 
out more expensive drinking-places, trying to befriend a 
noble. Perhaps she'll catch the eye of someone young, 
lonely, and rich-before her fey beauty fades entirely. Fyl 
gard hopes she finds happiness . . . but doesn't want to lose 
her as a friend. Sometimes, when restless himself, he fol 
lows her on her nightly jaunts up into North Ward and Sea 
Ward, trying to see where she goes without revealing him 
self to her. On some of these occasions, he's become aware 
that someone is following him. One of his sons, or a street 
thief, or ... ? Fylgard has begun to keep an eye out for out- 
landers selling belt- and boot-daggers, sleep-venomed rings, 
and the like-even a trained fighting-dog could be very 
useful. A rising merchant has need of such things. 

The world of the rich and powerful doesn't interest Fyl 
gard as much as it does his friend, but it's not entirely unfa 
miliar to him, either. Some years ago, after a street brawl, 
Fylgard befriended Dulbravvan Anteos, a young nobleman 
anxious to make a name for himself. Thereafter, Dulbrav 
van often patronized Fylgard's shop when outfitting "drover 
runs" of Daggerford-area livestock into the city for trans 
port to buyers in Luskan (the cattle's final destinations in 
Mirabar, Icewind Dale and Tharsult). As Dulbravvan's suc 
cesses grew, he was forced to cast his nets more widely to 
find investors for his grander schemes; he persuaded a 
reluctant Fylgard (who was faced with the prospect of los 
ing all of Dulbravvan's business if he refused) to invest in 
his ventures. This quickly earned Fylgard some modest 
riches -and unwittingly made him the foe of Yunth 
Hothemer, Dulbravvan's arch-rival among the "bright 
young blades" of Waterdeep's dashing nobles. Following a 
series of visiting-merchant disappearances in South Ward, 
Fylgard was investigated by the watch (on Yunth's advice); 
Fylgard has only recently discovered this, and it bothers 
him-being a careful, law-abiding citizen, in his own 





92 




view-more than a little. 

As a result of the watch's attention and his association 
with Dulbravvan, Fylgard's name became known in noble 
and wealthy circles in the Sword Coast North -and 
orders have begun to come in for ropes of certain hues 
and knottings, ostensibly for ceremonial or decorative 
uses . . . but in some cases, no doubt, intended for employ 
in pranksome, romantic, or even fraudulent activities. 
Fylgard fears that his name will soon be linked to shady 
deeds once more. Fle's also noticed that someone is keep 
ing an eye on his shop - and so Fylgard often drops by the 
Inn of the Dripping Dagger to take his measure of the 
warriors who frequent the place. When he finds one he 
can trust, he plans to hire that swordswinger as a body 
guard for his three sons. 

Fylgard's investments are typical of those made by shop 
keepers in Waterdeep: A small, steady amount invested in 
guild activities (just enough to keep his name favorably 
regarded, because such investments seldom bring much 
return); larger amounts quietly lent to friends and trusted 
associates, with written contracts that command city prop 
erty as collateral; substantial amounts "banked" with the 
larger merchant houses, and drawn forth only to purchase 
properties in the city; and funds paid into "roundshields." 

A roundshield is the way most unknown merchants 
(such as visitors, or those just starting out in trade) raise 
funds. It's also the means by which the vast majority of 
independent caravans are sponsored. In every square, and 
on posts on strategic street corners, rusting shields are 
hung-plastered thickly with hand-bills that advertise 
bond issues backed by prominent Waterdhavians, each 
"held open" for investors on certain evenings at a particular 
place, usually a tavern. Interested folk with enough coin 
show up, come to an agreement over how much they'll 
invest, and either pay on the spot (typically in gems; direct 
payment is rare, and done mostly by those desiring to make 
a show of their wealth-and having enough to spare to hire 
a large and capable bodyguard) or draw up contracts, 
arranging for payment to be made soon after. In effect, a 
syndicate of investors is formed. Roundshields carry a large 
amount of risk-but on occasion can turn a modest invest 
ment into a large fortune. 

Fylgard's seen his share of roundshields, and made a lot 
of money thereby. He's also seen some misfortune . . . such 
as the recent Truehawks scandal. The Truehawks Trading 
Company, in which he sunk 10,000 taols (20,000 gp), 
turned out to be a group of Calishite snatch-and-grab 
slavers -who actually plucked folk off the streets of 


Waterdeep to fill their slave-holds! Fylgard's guild rivals 
put it about the city that Fylgard was the instigator 
behind the whole Truehawks scheme . . . and customers in 
the shop have begun to ask him slyly what the weather's 
like in Calimshan, implying they suspect he'll flee there 
soon. Fylgard's furious about this, but doesn't know quite 
what to do. He suspects that if he tries to hire adventurers 
to warn off his rivals', it will somehow come out and be 
held up as proof he's a sinister crime-lord. Perhaps if he 
uses newcomers to the city - adventurers too inexperi 
enced to be hirelings already in the employ of his rivals - 
to gather some dirt about his rivals, and start spreading a 
few rumors about them . . . 

That's not the sort of work that Fylgard has much stom 
ach for, though most in the city would see it simply as good 
business. The fat ropemaker know he's a romantic at heart. 
He loves to hear minstrels singing about lost loves and hid 
den treasures and elven ghosts who walk in ruins by moon 
light because of promises made long ago. Fylgard seeks out 
traveling players and talkative caravan-merchants when he 
goes drinking-and sometimes even manages to hear a real 
bard. His pursuit of such entertainment takes him to places 
where he hears much talk of hidden treasure, monsters 
slain and daring adventures undertaken. He's a fan of 
adventurers-those who face danger at every step, and dare 
to embark on a life Fylgard Onister only dreams of-and 
can relate a lot about the popular view of current adventur 
ing companies and their deeds. 

Over the years, Fylgard has heard adventuring rumors in 
plenty about Waterdeep itself: That certain ghosts have 
gathered into their own adventuring band; that the city 
guard was shocked to find a large group of well-armed 
young girls trying to slip into storage caverns deep in 
Mount Waterdeep; that more than one band of adventurers 
has taken to dwelling in the extradimensional depths of 
tombs in the City of the Dead, and can be contacted by 
leaving messages in certain urns or crevices therein-and 
that some of them may be trapped in their new-found lairs, 
by enchantments laid before their grandsires were born . . . 
and more, including the perennial Waterdhavian rumor 
about a race of beholders or powerful shapeshifters or some 
thing darker out of Undermountain who've reached up 
into the city to quietly destroy and then impersonate an 
entire noble family! 

Fylgard will trade such tales with anyone willing to talk 
about such things. He's also always on the lookout for 
wares, folk, and customs that are new, exotic, and unusual. 
He regards his own life as ordinary-too ordinary, but per- 



haps (he tells himself) he should be thankful his rivals and 
shadowy foes aren't more powerful or persistent, and his 
sons aren't as slack and rebellious as some. The middle one, 
Jaster, though . . . he's always been too quiet, and of late 
Fylgard's seen him talking to men who look all too much 
like accomplished thieves. A word dropped to the watch, 
perhaps? 

Fylgard knows the streets of the city as well as most, 
though, like a lot of shopkeepers, he's too bed to his own 
place to notice whenever a noble builds another tower 
inside this set of villa walls, or the sign and owner of a shop 
changes on that back alley. Yet he knows more about odd 
doings in South Ward than, say, the watch does . . . thanks 
to a drunken, gossipy neighbor, Ilnaster Ravenar. 

Ravenar, a seller of coffers, lockboxes, satchels, and 
handchests, is a local contact for the Cult of the Dragon, 
and often briefs cult members visiting the city. Some years 
back, Fylgard discovered that the roof-drain their shops 
share makes a good listening-tube for anyone in Fylgard's 
cellar to hear what's said in Ravenar's upper room. Ilnaster 
certainly has some interesting visitors - though one 
woman, who hisses like a snake, seems to sense that some 
one is listening; if Fylgard hears her, he quickly departs for 
a tavern elsewhere in the city. 

In short, Fylgard is just an average Waterdhavian mer 
chant. There are thousands like him in the city. Each has 
their own life, interests, knowledge, dreams, and tales to 
tell . . . and each is useful to a player character. 

PuTTibig ALL This To 
WonX 

T he key to making Waterdeep really seem to come 
alive is for a skillful Dungeon Master to spin out the 
details of half a dozen neighbors or useful merchants, just as 
has been done for Fylgard here, and draw on this informa 
tion as play demands-so that wherever players decide to 
send their characters, whatever they decide to ask or inves 
tigate, the city is waiting for them . . . bustling, already in 
motion, not a frozen stage set waiting for the player charac 
ters "to do something." 

In the City of Splendors, adventure is always waiting 
around the next comer. Fylgard may seem just an affable, 
rather boring goodman of Waterdeep - but get the right 
amount of zzar into him and ask smoothly, and he may 
tell you of Ilnaster's mutterings, or the strange loading 
crew he saw working in a warehouse over on Coachlamp 


Lane a tenday back-hooded men who stood upright, but 
had the faces of frogs when they turned into the light. It 
gave him dark dreams for three nights, that did . . . and 
he's always wondered who -or what -they were, and 
what they were doing. Fie might talk instead of some 
thing Dulbravvan Anteos told him, about a mysterious 
tall, masked, dusky-skinned lady who came to a party 
Dulbravvan was at, a few nights back, and left with a 
young harpist of the Majarra family . . . who hasn't been 
seen since, and is now being sought by his relatives. It 
seems that not only is Deljack Majarra missing, but so are 
several Majarran items of powerful magic, family items of 
history and importance. 

The man at the next table has heard more: That agents 
of Evermeet, hidden behind magical disguises, are even 
now hunting through the city for the absent Majarran 
scion, and a renegade Thavian lord who calls himself Lord 
Thome has appeared before Lord Piergeiron demanding 
that his daughter- Ilione, who accompanied him to the 
city-be found. She's tall, and dusky-skinned .... Accord 
ing to palace whispers, a priest who used magic to see the 
truth of the lord's words, from behind a curtain, says that 
the man was lying: Lie has no daughter, and seeks the 
woman for his own purposes. More than this: A member of 
the Watchful Order who was present at the same party has 
reported to the mages' guild that a string of 16 ioun stones 
orbiting a statue there are all false-someone has taken the 
real stones, and left clever but magically inert duplicates! 

That leads the next man along the tables to top all that 
with the news that the Watchful Order is at this moment 
locked in debate over how to deal with an unscrupulous 
Calishite mage who sold several scrolls in the city that are 
"double-ended" spells: They perform as they are supposed 
to, but also summon a beholder to the spellcaster - an 
angry eye tyrant not leashed or hampered by any control 
ling magic! This was the reason for the toppling of a mage's 
tower on Mendever Street a few nights back . . . and some 
in the Order say this is not the first trickery the Calishite, 
Alnaskos of Teshburl, has worked on his infrequent visits 
to the city. 

This is just one tavern, on one night. . . .and there are 
hundreds of places in Waterdeep where folk meet and talk. 
If even a tenth of the tales told therein are like these, is it 
any wonder that people flock to Waterdeep every summer, 
to find adventure? 

And they find it . . . don't they? 



94 


AppewcMx Tcuo: The ThhzsTy ThnoXT 


Editor's Note: This appendix is additional information for use 
with the Thirsty Throat tavern map. The Thirsty Throat was 
first detailed in Volo's Guide to Waterdeep, hut that book pro 
vided only a brief glimpse of the tavern. This appendix and the 
poster provide DMs with a standard tavern map to use for 
nearly any tavern, or inn locution in the city with minor modifi 
cations; it also gives the PCs a "dive" to habitually investigate 
for information on the shady side of Waterdeep. It has its ties to 
the Shadow Thieves and the Xanathar Thieves' Guild, and it 
also has links with the Adventurers' Quarter Campaign (via 
Alek Tenter). Use the Thirsty Throat for anything from covert 
meetings to brawls. 

DescR)pT)oNJ 

T his ramshackle tavern, just west of the Way of the 
Dragon and at the comer of Slut Street and Candle 
Lane, is rumored to be a hangout of thieves, cutthroats, and 
other blackguards. In truth, it caters to a regular crowd of 
dockworkers, couriers, and visiting sailors from other ports 
(some of whom just happen to be thieves . . .). On Candle 
Lane, the tavern is flanked by a small rental warehouse 
facility called Maernath Storage. The Throat is bordered 
on the other side by a minor warehouse owned by Alek 
Lenter of Waukeen's Wares (AQ13). 

It is a quiet tavern with a small collection of tables, 
benches, and mismatched stools and chairs for its patrons. 
Most of the tables have elaborate carvings in their surfaces 
from the daggers of the patrons; there might even be some 
messages left within the general scrawls and carvings and 
useless graffiti. Its only light fliters in through filthy win 
dows during the day, a tallow candle chandelier providing 
light at night. The back wall is decorated with some tapes 
tries that once hung in a noble villa (and were used as pay 
ment to the barkeep for a favor), though they are now so 
threadbare and stained by smoke and spilled ale that they 
are nearly worthless. The larger one has a blue field with a 
red griffon rampant, and the smaller tapestry shows the sil 
houette of a sailing ship. 

The washrooms are accessed by two ladders in the floor. 
Climbing down into an antechamber, male and female 
patrons find one room with two jakes that face one another 
across a low 3-foot-high wall. People use this room for clan 
destine item exchanges or fast escapes (for those that know 
of the secret doors!). The rushing waters of the sewers are 


easily heard down in the jakes room. 

Upstairs are bedrooms for the owner and one guest or 
servant, and a meeting room. For 1 gold piece a night, the 
meeting room can be "used for parties" (that is, it is often 
crowded with thieves or some other secret group plotting a 
heist or other underhanded activity). For those who are 
regular customers, or first-timers who pay 2 gold pieces, 
Bulaedo tells them of the secret exit from the room. 

This tavern's prices are incredibly cheap (but so is the 
fare); one copper piece gets you a watery ale in a tankard as 
large as a man's head. Aside from ale, Bulaedo provides 
hand wheels of Waterdhavian cheese (2 cp), hunks of 
cured and smoked meats (1 cp/piece), and zzar (1 cp/glass 
or 1 sp/bottle), but that's it; only the owner gets a hot meal 
cooked in here, and he's more apt to wander down the 
street to Chrandeth's, a small, second-story club that has a 
passable menu for a few coppers (the hot cheese-and-meat- 
scraps pies are Bulaedo's favorites). 

SeaizeT Eyfts 

This taverns holds many exits, some mundane and easily 
spotted, and others secret. The front door and back door 
can both be locked and barred from inside; the bars for the 
doors are stored underneath the benches while the tavern 
is open. The windows are the secondary exits from the tav 
ern. They are all hinged at the top and swing open easily if 
pushed out from the inside, intended for those who don't 
wish to face the watch patrol to jump out easily. These are 
locked at night with metal pegs sunk through the window 
frame and into the sill. 

There are also secret exits out of the tavern (known only 
to those constant customers who tip Bulaedo often and 
generously, though he will only tell of the access into the 
sewers, not the others): 

• Behind the large griffon tapestry on the main floor is a 
secret pivoting door that leads into the Maernath Stor 
age warehouse; those who work for "Maernath" (a front 
for the Xanathar), such as Avaereene and Randulaith, 
know of this exit. 

. Pressing a certain stone on the low wall in the jakes 
opens a small 2-foot-wide door about 3 feet up from the 
ground, which leads directly into a tertiary sewer line. 
This apeture is most often used to dispose of any items 
(or bodies) quickly. Few use it to escape directly, unless 
they do not know of the other escapes. 


7N 





• Behind the southern ladder leading into the jakes, a 
loose flagstone in the floor hides the trigger for a secret 
door into the hidden cellar of Maernath Storage. Only 
Avaereene and Bulaedo know of this exit, which she uses 
to reach her main meeting place with the Hand (see 
Appendix Two in the Campaign Guide and Chapter Six 
of this book). Bulaedo knows of the mysterious disap 
pearances of those who cross her, and he allows her to 
use this access to funnel any recent kills through the 
jakes and into the sewers. 

• The third secret door out of the jakes leads to a junction 
room of the sewers, the door opening directly onto the 
ledge above the muck. This secret door opens by simulta 
neously pushing in a stone at the base of the wall and 
another at the center of the door, causing it to slide back 
and open onto a small staircase leading down to a secret 
door into the junction room. 

• Bulaedo has his own secret door out of his main cellar 
beneath the bar, accessed by moving a few barrels and 
pressing a sequence of wall stones; Alek Lenter is the 
only other person who currently knows of this secret 
door, which leads to a small hallway and respective secret 
doors into the cellars of either warehouse. A permanent 
illusion masks the side tunnel into the cellar of Maernath 
Storage; Alek has yet to stumble across this, and Bulaedo 
guards this secret well. He does not wish to enlighten his 
contact with the Shadow Thieves of this connection 
with the Xanathar, fearing backlash from both groups. 

• The final secret doors are connected with the second 
floor meeting room. One small door allows Bulaedo to 
sneak from his room into the meeting room; he uses it 
when the meeting room door is open, masking his own 
entrance. He has used this on many occasions to surprise 
people with sudden appearances, as well as a quick 
escape if needed. The other secret door is the lower 
panel in the upper comer of the western wall; pressing a 
particular knothole allows a 2-foot-high and 3-foot-wide 
section of the wall to pivot, allowing escapees to roll out 
onto the southern slope of the roof of Maernath Storage, 
their escapes visible only to those in the back alley 
behind the Thirsty Throat (20% chance to observe the 
secret door at work, 50% chance of seeing figures on the 
one-story roof). 

• There may yet be other hidden doors about the tavern; 
Bulaedo locks all entrances from the outside into the tav 
ern when he closes at dawn, so he can prevent from 
being robbed while sleeping. 


The Regulars 

T he following are constant presences that PCs can count 
on meeting every time they enter the Throat. In addi 
tion, a crowd of 3-12 NPCs (Fl-4, Tl-3) sit at the tables or 
bar. Other known NPCs you might find here are: Alek 
Lenter, Avaereene, Randulaith, and other shady people. 

Bawdft 

Bandit is the small pet racoon that sits on the shelves 
behind the bar. Bulaedo haphazardly tosses pieces of cheese 
and meat to Bandit, who promptly leaps from shelf to bar 
to tables, searching for a drink to wash his food in. Regulars 
know Bandit's maneuvers and cover their drinks when they 
hear him coming across the floor, but newcomers are usu 
ally rudely joined and "asked" to share their ale with him. 

Hook 

There is also a ghostly presence within the Thirsty Throat, 
the grandfather of Bulaedo and the former owner of the 
tavern, known in life and death as Hook. He manifests 
only as a roving spot of icy coldness, every now and again 
shoving an object or two around. His usual spot is in the 
chair at the foot of the stairs. 

Hook hates the watch, and often does things to scare the 
patrols. If they burst in with intent to arrest someone. Hook's old 
hook launches out of nowhere and pins the cloak of the lead 
watchman to the door or a wall, delaying them enough for any 
"friends" to make good their escapes. Bulaedo has been taken to 
court on charges of interference with justice, but a Lord dis 
missed the charges and ruled he could not be held responsible. 

Bulaedo "F)sTs" LedigLeerc. 

Game Data: NE hm F5; STR 18(12), CON 17 
Description: This monstrously fat man, who is often found 
behind the bar wiping a grimy mug with an equally 
grimy rag, gained his nickname from his ability to knock 
out men with one punch. From the looks of his huge 
arms, this is no idle rumor. His humor tends to be quite 
scatalogical, though few would wager the man laughs at 
all to see his commonly scowling face. 

Notes: Bulaedo Ledigleer is not a timid man or common 
barkeep; he was once a promising mercenary who com 
manded high prices (and many believe he still has his 
riches hidden within the tavern). During Bulaedo's 
career as a mercenary, he was poisoned many times and 
as a result is 40% resistant to any poisons. 




96 









.>? .'¦ TH' Mk I 


j i S JpL 

ai _ ¦ 

Lv' v, 

Hi i 

i Si 

- 1 

% T 9 


iSJ 





¦ /]n 



it 


[ ^ 

Jfisftis* • >Wm 

1-br " M -'- 11 " ¦ . ^ 

; l( ^'; 




ip_ . .1. i.'jfcP imva 1 ^pfciu tr j 7- l \ 

v,. j fl' rT jr\.'._r\t5K. r ^A\ iJ 


nr 

F5 



--mmh,__ m^r - ^^IZT Jn. 

*, J-V ' ^ / /VYdSfl] JkrjHKr^"- ¦CT/VjS 2. 

I W 

r^" ' 

C > 

tfraSSl'EraS 

1 A ¦ -k' . v ¦:. •' 

¦ k\ K *$ j?' &\ m, 1 -t| 'V 1 r .^\ 

f \ V . 1 l ^1. *nf| |*h'\ y\JL Vjr i 


a 

1 

¦aggffi - *&r, -j^' ^ 

¦¦•¦?! * . .. 

;.l 

i# 

- Ml m i 



'A 





















/Aavancedp uii^e^s^lia ^oiis^ 


Abvohftunon!s Gufoo 
To the OTy 

Book 111 of the OTy of Spletodons 

by Steven Schend with Ed Greenwood 


Introduction . 

Chapter One: 

The Native's Look at Waterdeep. 

General Notes on Waterdeep. 

Southern Ward. 

Trades Ward. 

North Ward. 

Sea Ward. 

Castle Ward. 

Dock Ward. 

Chapter Two: 

Waterdeep's Changing Face. 

A Night in the City. 

Wintering In Waterdeep. 

Holidays of Waterdeep. 

Chapter Three: 

Adventuring in Waterdeep. 

Becoming an Adventurer. 

Outfitting Your Waterdhavian Character. 


.2 

.... 3-24 

. 3 

. 6 

8 

.12 

. 15 

. 18 

.22 

.... 25-29 

. 25 

. 25 

. 26 

30-38 

. 30 

. 36 


Places of Adventurer Interest. 

Waterdhavian Campaigns. 

Chapter Four: 

The Waterdeep Campaign. 

Startup. 

The Streets Where You Live. 

Guide to the Adventurers' Quarter .... 

Chapter Five: 

NPCs of the Adventurers' Quarter. 

NPCs of Major Interest. 

NPCs of Minor Interest. 

Chapter Six: 

Scenes & Sundries. 

Such a Deal. 

Trolltidings . 

Return of the Blue Axe. 

On the Knife's Edge. 

The Adventurer's Life. 


Cnob)Ts 


Design: Steven E. Schend 
Editing: Karen S. Boomgarden & Janis Wells 
Cartography: Eric Hotz, Dennis Kauth, & 
Rob Lazzaretti 

Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra 


Additional Design Concepts: Ed Greenwood 
Cover Art: Larry Elmore 
Interior Art: Valerie Valusek 
Production: Paul Hanchette 


. 36 

.38 

.... 39-47 

.39 

.40 

. 40 

. 48-59 

. 48 

. 56 

.... 60-64 

.60 

. 61 

.61 

. 62 

. 63 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, and FORGOTTEN REALMS are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the United States of America. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 
Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 


This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is pro 
hibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


ISBN 1-56076-368-1 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 

































I toTnobucTio to 

atedeep. City of Splendors. Crown of the North. Ah, it all comes back 
to me now. ... I do believe Waterdeep is one of those cities in the Realms 
that has quite the variety of names, depending on your point of view-the 
less than kind Amnites commonly refer to it as the "Cesspool of the Sav 
age Frontier" rather than one of its other honorifics. Ah, the Heir of Del- 
zoun and the Fallen Kingdom (my own name for the fair city, may it last longer than its 
precedents) is a wondrous magical place filled with intrigues and mysteries and such fun as to put 
some curl back in this old goat's beard! 

Since I first made the traverse from mine own world to yours, I've striven to give the many chroni 
clers of the Realms as many details as are safe to divulge about Faerun. Above all other places, Ed of 
the Greenwood and his colleagues have pestered me and mine for more and more on fair Waterdeep, 
the City of Splendors. It should be so, for no other mortal city in the Realms and the far lands has 
been more fabled, more exciting, and more dangerous than that metropolis ruled by the shadowy 
Lords. And now you and yours wish to learn about the city's many attractions and secrets, hmmm? 
Intrepid curiosity is a fine thing; have a care it doesn't lead you to unfortunate ends. 

First and foremost, this tome shalt be the players' guide to the city as a whole, garnering 
them knowledge of Waterdeep as her natives know and understand her. Bear in mind that a 
city this large has many multitudes of secrets and charms, and even life-long natives (not to 
exclude those still within the city but beyond the mortal coil) do not know many of the hidden 
dangers and treasures of their hometown. There betimes ye'll learn new things or coinciden 
tally remember things of old about the city, but fear not-this guide grants you and yours the 
wisdom and learning of an average Waterdhavian. If more information is needed, ye hadst be 
prepared to pay for it, as Waterdeep's power stems not from the magics ofMystra, though such 
gifts are quite plentiful and dangerous, but the magics of currency and trade. 

After a whirlwind tour of the city, ye'll have to set down and discover what it's like as a 
would-be hero within the greatest city of the North. Your options are many, though your free 
doms are not unlimited. After all, wouldst ye like to live in a city without some manner of con 
trol over some boasting hedge-wizard with an itchy burning hand? I thought not, and the 
Blackstaff would agree with all of us in that matter (the only spells he's generated in this decade 
are simply to keep such hotheads from destroying Waterdeep's realty!). Ye'll find many new 
benefits as a native (and some for those beyond the city walls) and the book can also direct 
you to essential places of business for heroes, such as weapons shops and armories and taverns 
and mercenary hiring spots - be sure to give a hearty 'Hail and well met' to Blazidon for me. 

Whilst this book reveals the basic details of the city, what ye can expect of the city towards 
your profession, and a quick guide to the city on holiday, this guide also gives you new adven 
turers a place to rest and reside whilst searching for (or hiding from) excitement. Your living 
neighborhood, fitting for fledgling adventurers and heroes, is described in great detail. Ye'll 
meet new friends and old enemies, discover friendly corner taverns and seedy back-alley dives, 
and get the closest look yet shown of the City of Splendors as ye'll be living it! 

Are ye so sure ye wish to live and adventure within the City of Splendors herself? Best of 
luck to you, then, but tread carefully in the intrigue and drama of Waterdeep lest ye stir the 
attentions of the Lords ... or something less than kindly. . . . 



Elminster of Shadowdale 









ithout exception, the grandeur and majesty of Waterdeep is unri 
valed in the North, mayhaps even in the Realms' entirety as well. 
So it is of little consequence to note that it is next to impossible 
to learn all there is to know of the City of Splendors. However, 
there are certain truths that hold evident within the city as a 
whole, and these are noted below; any exceptions are listed under individual descrip 
tions such as those within this boxed set and Volo's Guide to Waterdeep. 



GeweRal NoTes on WateRdeep 

GeogriAphy & AizchlTecTuize 

Visitors entering the city overland will first see the large walls and cliffs that surround 
the city on all sides save the harbor and Mount Waterdeep; the natural plateau on 
which Waterdeep rests provides an excellent defense against marauding trolls and 
invading armies (one of the main reasons the city still exists today). Approaching the 
city from the air, visitors can easily see that Waterdeep is relatively flat at its northern 
end, though it slopes gradually down toward the spur of Mount Waterdeep and more 
sharply down to the harbor, the mountain granting shelter for two-thirds of the city 
from the harsh seawinds. 

The City of Splendors is one of the Realms' largest cities (though southerners are 
quick to point out larger cities in Calimshan and Halruaa) and, aside from various loca 
tions within Dock Ward, is spared the squalor and filth that is representative of so 
many of the larger cities. The city itself is centuries old and its construction was origi 
nally haphazard, as shown by the twisting, rambling streets of Southern and Dock 
Wards; the newer wards are more orderly, the streets laid out in a vague grid pattern to 
fit the topography. The larger main roads through the city are smoothly paved with 
brick, secondary streets afford relatively even cobblestones, and corduroy (wooden log) 
roads are being installed throughout the city. Alleys and some enclosed backstreets are 
equally covered with corduroy or hard-packed earth and gravel. Due to the diligence of 
the Dungsweepers' Guild, Waterdeep's many streets and alleys are free from excessive 
debris and filth. 

Buildings within Waterdeep vary according to their age, size, and usefulness to the city at 
large. While the city is host to a number of elaborate palatial residences (such as Piergeiron's 
Palace and many noble villas), temples (the Plinth and the House of Wonder), and public 
buildings (Castle Waterdeep among others), it is also home to less grand structures from the 
lofty guildhalls to the lowliest warehouse and hovel. North Ward and Sea Ward (and parts of 
Castle Ward) are dominated by well-kept stone and brick buildings; Trades, South, and Cas- 










tie Wards tend to favor wattle-and-daub timber houses with 
stone foundations; Dock Ward's buildings are, by majority, 
wooden structures in various degrees of repair. During the Time 
of Troubles, small pockets of Dock Ward, South Ward, and 
Castle Ward were destroyed by fires and the destruction that 
came from the evil god Myrkul's invasion of the city. All the 
buildings were repaired or replaced by the Lords, so there are 
some new constructions within far older areas. In general, the 
oldest structures are in the southern half of the city (Dock, 
South, and Castle Wards). 

CUmaTe 

With its northern location, Waterdeep is expected by many 
to be a cold, damp place indeed. Its general climate is typical 
of the area, though; due to the sheltering effects of Mount 
Waterdeep, only the worst of the coastal storms in any season 
ever disturb the city. Even at the height of summer, the city is 
rarely sweltering in heat due to constant breezes and the cool 
ing seas around it. Waterdeep is, however, not the balmiest of 
locations in which to winter. While the harbor remains open 
year round, the icy north winds whip through the streets, 
bringing cold and dampness through every crack and crevice. 
As a result, many of Waterdeep's residences are better kept 
with thicker walls and multiple fireplaces (where possible) for 
better insulation against the chill of winter. 

PopuLaDoN) 

While Waterdeep's size can arguably be considered modest 
compared to southern metropolises, her population (and 
location for northern trading) demands the attention of 
the Realms. Waterdeep is home to 122,000 sentients, and 
the city's population often swells to nearly 600,000 during 
holidays and the peak of trading season. Nearly every 
known race of the surface Realms can be encountered 
within the city walls, though the majority of the popula 
tion is of Northern human descent. Halflings and elves are 
also found in Waterdeep in respectable numbers, though 
the halflings are growing steadily in influence within the 
watch and the marketplace. Dwarves and gnomes can be 
found here, though they are just as rare in Waterdeep as 
they are elsewhere. Due to constant trading activity, 
Waterdeep often plays host to peoples of all nations from 
Calishite spice merchants to Kozakuran textile traders. As 
testament to the tenacity and, ability of the watch, even 
such "evil" races as lizard men, giants, and other nonhu 
mans are allowed within the city to trade at times (though 
these appearances are rare and carefully monitored by all). 


RuLcrs 

The City of Splendors is ruled by a secretive group of men 
and women known collectively as the Lords of Waterdeep. 
No one knows for certain who all of the Lords are (save the 
Lords themselves), as they only appear in public in full robes 
and magical helms that obscure all identity and gender. They 
are sixteen in all, though natives rarely see more than two or 
three Lords together at any given time. The identity of one of 
the Lords is known: the Open Lord Piergeiron "the Paladin- 
son." He is Waterdeep's chief defender and diplomat to for 
eign powers, commander of the watch and the guard, and the 
final arbiter and counselor for the guilds. The Lords' Rule is 
fair to all regardless of wealth or influence, and none but the 
guilty fear the hidden, watchful eyes of the Lords. The 
penalty for impersonating a Lord is instant death. 

The city's day-to-day administration is handled by the 
Magisters (or "Black Robes" as most call them), the judges 
of Waterdeep. Any wrongdoing results in arrest by the 
watch (the police force) or, in major transgressions, the 
guard (the city's standing army); the Magisters' rulings and 
sentences can be overturned or altered by the Lords, 
though they rarely are. Finally, rule within the city can also 
be attributed to the Guilds and their internal rules, enforc 
ing fair trade and good business within the city; while 
Piergeiron and the others sit upon the thrones, money is 
still the true power within the City of Splendors. 

People & Places of NoTe 

Like any other place filled with self-important personages, 
the list of "significant" people and places within the City of 
Splendors all depends on one's point of view. Below are 
quick notes on people and places that have great impact on 
the city in general. 

Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun: Long rumored to be the 
true power behind the Lords of Waterdeep (if not one him 
self), Khelben is the most powerful mage of the Sword Coast. 
He is a well-respected (and much-feared) person and his 
every word is listened to carefully by all but the most foolish. 

Elaith "the Serpent" Craulnobur: This infamous elf is 
rumored to be one of the richest citizens of Waterdeep, 
coming by much of his money dishonestly. He often hires 
mercenaries and funds adventuring companies, though few 
ever survive his commissions (as he even considers his 
allies expendable in order to reach his goals). He is a dan 
gerous swordsman with a cold, furious temper. 

Mulgor: This diligent, unrelenting, balding little man is 
Waterdeep's collector-of-fees. While of little consequence 




to many, Mulgor is quite important in his task of collecting 
the fines and fees of Waterdeep's citizens for the Magisters 
and the Lords. Despite his unassuming appearance, he is 
iron-willed and is equally comfortable in extracting fees 
from dockworkers to the heads of the noble houses. 

Blazidon One-Eye: This bad-tempered, one-eyed man 
handles many mercenary appointments for itinerant fight 
ers and warriors. If one is looking for employment, seek 
him out in Virgin's Square. 

Lord Piergeiron: The First Lord of Waterdeep is the 
epitome of a local ruler, well loved and respected by his cit 
izens. As the city's chief and capable leader, he is above 
reproach in all matters of state or war, his status as a noble 
paladin serving him well in court and in battle. 

Captain Rulathon: As Piergeiron's second-in-command 
of the watch, Rulathon is a known and well-liked man 
within the city. While often quite busy, he always takes 
time to travel throughout the city, keeping a hands-on 
approach with his men and the city's protection. He is 
quite patient in dealing with problems, though his temper 
(triggered only by slavers and inhuman religious practices) 
rivals that of the harpies when unleashed. 

Madieron Sunderstone: Madieron acts as Piergeiron's 
Champion (bodyguard). While human, he is very tall and 
imposing (8' tall!). He is utterly fearless and his honor is 
beyond reproach, but he is quite dull-witted. While very ami 
able, Madieron has few friends other than Piergeiron and some 
members of the guard and watch, due to his constant duties. 

Danilo Thann: Once thought a simple dandy and a dab 
bler in magic, Danilo has matured into a noble bard of cel 
ebrated ability. He is known equally for his ballads (both 
proper and vulgar) and his fashionable clothes. Many 
younger nobles follow his lead in sartorial matters, while 
bards sing his songs throughout the Sword Coast. Some 
whisper rumors that he is connected with the Harpers, a 
rumor supported by constant traffic with his uncle Khelben 
Arunsun, a known senior Harper. 

Helve Urtrace: Helve is Senior Armsmaster of the 
watch and is responsible for much of the internal adminis 
tration of the police force. While a fair and honest man, he 
is gruff with everyone, his workload often making him 
short with less-than-important interruptions. He also acts 
as the primary drill sergeant for the watch and is well 
versed in street fighting and tavern brawls. 

Maskar Wands: The patriarch of an old and powerful 
noble family, Maskar Wands is a great wizard, eclipsed in 
Waterdeep only by the Blackstaff. While a power within 
the city's internal politics, Maskar is a recluse and rarely 


leaves his villa unless provoked by some irresponsible use of 
magic within Waterdeep, an offense he personally abhors. 

Ahghairon's Tower: The tower of the first Lord of 
Waterdeep, the wizard Ahghairon, still stands in the court 
yard before Piergeiron's Palace. There are many magical 
protections around the tower, a lone skeleton floating 
within the fields and bearing witness to what happens if 
one should attempt to rob the final resting place of Water- 
deep's honored dead. 

Castle Waterdeep: The walls of this great castle perched 
high on the slopes of Mt. Waterdeep have never been 
breached. This great fortress is used for training, weapons 
storage, and stabling for the guard and the watch. Its pri 
mary function is for the protection of the city, its high walls 
allowing catapults to command the entire harbor. 

City of the Dead: This is the general cemetery for 
Waterdeep, its size large enough to be a ward itself. Used as 
an open park during the day, the citizens of Waterdeep are 
forbidden to enter its walls at night. Many of the tombs 
lead into magical dimensions, allowing almost unlimited 
burial space for noble and commoner alike. 

Mount Waterdeep: This large, lone peak protects 
Waterdeep from the worst of the seawinds and provides 
protection in the form of lookout towers for the city and its 
environs. There is an eyrie manned by the guard that sta 
bles griffon steeds, providing Waterdeep with aerial protec 
tion from dragons and other flying menaces. 

New Olamn: Rededicated and returned to Waterdeep in 
1366 DR/334 NR after many long decades, the bards' col 
lege of New Olamn is a thriving educational center in its 
new walled enclosure at the end of the Cliffride. Heroes' 
Rest and Stormwatch, former rental villas, now compose 
the campus, and a tunnel through the northern spur of Mt. 
Waterdeep provides access to the college. 

Piergeiron's Palace: An opulent palace nestled against a 
cliff at Mount Waterdeep's base, this serves as the primary 
residence for First Lord Piergeiron. It also houses a number 
of public offices, including the Lords' Court and the pri 
mary offices of the Magisters. Any major affairs and func 
tions of state occur here, especially grand balls to celebrate 
the visits of important dignitaries. 

Waterdeep Harbor: The wide harbor is deep and accommo 
dates berths and docks for as many as 50 ships at once. Deep 
water Isle and the surrounding watchtowers provide guard 
protection for traders, their ships, and the city itself; the guard 
keeps its own fleet of rakers on hand to fight off pirates and 
other sea-borne dangers. Mermen living within the harbor help 
the guard catch smugglers attempting to enter Waterdeep. 





































































SoutbeRM Wak& 

S outhern Ward, known as South Ward to all natives, is 
the first ward seen by most visitors who enter the city 
through the South Gate or the River Gate with the cara 
vans. As much of its business caters to the caravan trade, it 
is sometimes called Caravan City with its plentiful forges, 
smithies, stables, warehouses, and sheds (with coaches and 
carts for hire). Many common and poorer folk dwell in 
South Ward, though the caravan trade allows for some 
local merchants to attain near-noble status (at least in 
monetary terms). It is often dusty and grimy from the traffic 
from overland trade, but this area and its people are mostly 
friendly and industrious, catering to every need of visitors 
and merchant-traders. Tourists and visitors rarely idle 
around to look into wagons and warehouses (unless it is 
their business to do so), but the presence of guards (both 
privately hired and those in the watch) is obvious and 
lends much to the feeling of security about the trade goods 
and the businesses herein. 

One of the smallest wards in the city. South Ward had 
probably the least to do with the internal politics (both 
social and monetary) of the city beyond the overland 
trades. South Ward is, for the most part, the ordinary or 
commoners' side of Waterdeep. The main streets within 
the ward are the Way of the Dragon and the High Road. 
The Way of the Dragon forms the southern and western 
boundaries of South Ward, and the Troll Wall is the east 
ern boundary. The northern boundary consists of a mix of 
streets and alleys: Telshambra's Street, a little bit of the 
High Road, Sahtyra's Lane, Caravan Court (all of which is 
deemed to be in South Ward), and Belzer's Walk. 

AizahKecTuize 

South Ward's primary buildings tend to be tall, old 
stone, mud brick, and timber warehouses. Crowded 
among them are three- or four-story tenements, nearly 
all with shops at street level. Trees and even bushes are 
few, being detriments to the constant traffic; the ever 
present dust and mud that accompany caravans are 
plentiful, but the buildings and foot traffic areas are 
kept clean. Everywhere in South Ward the rumble of 
cart wheels can be heard, just as the wastes of the draft 
animals are the predominant odor on the breeze. The 
many stables are often just covered pens, though some 
are sheltered by multifloored buildings over them (like 
inns or warehouses). 


LawdmaRVs 

Even though it is primarily a trading area for the city, 
South Ward has some interesting places to visit. These 
places are used most often as directional landmarks, as they 
are more easily discerned than the twisting streets and 
alleys that make it simple to get lost. Here is the layman's 
look at the places of note in South Ward: 

Guild HaLLs 

• Builders' Hall of the Guild of Stonecutters and Masons 
(City Map Location Sll), a lavishly crafted and tended 
stone building with a row of statues around the front; 

• Metalmasters' Hall (City Map Location S20), a gray 
granite blockhouse with a smoky forge dominating one 
entire end of the building, this acts as the headquarters of 
the Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths & Metalforg- 
ers; and 

• the Stone House (City Map Location S2), the main 
headquarters of the Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' 
Guild, and an easily spotted eyesore. 

Shops 

• Brian the Swordmaster's smithy and shop (City Map 
Location S7), famed for its well-crafted (though high- 
priced) swords and armor; 

• The Old Monster Shop (City Map Location S8), where 
monsters of all shapes and sizes and states of being (no 
undead!) can be procured; and 

• Pelauvir's Counter (City Map Location S23), a general 
store with moderately priced essentials and sundries in 
stock at all times. 

Imms & TaveRMs 

• The Full Cup (City Map Location S14), a seedy dive fre 
quented by caravan drovers and noted for all-too-fre- 
quent brawls; 

• the House of Good Spirits (City Map Location S3), a 
brewery, winery, and inn noted for its wide variety of 
liquors and strong drink from across the Realms (Water- 
dhavian zzar a house specialty!); 

• the Jade Dancer (City Map Location S15), a tavern and 
festhall well worth the high prices for its entertaining 
dancer-escorts and excellent drinks; 

• The Spouting Fish (City Map Location S18), a loud, 
rambunctious tavern that owes its success to its relent 
less street-cryer advertising and its location by South 
Gate; and 





• The Swords' Rest (City Map Location SI), a tavern for 
strong drink, strong arms, and thick skulls (when that burly 
fighter cracks a mug over your head, which is often!). 

OTherz Places of IhsTenesT 

• "Adventurers' Quarter" (see Part Two of this book and its 
accompanying map); 

• Blacklock Alley, named after a long-suffering obelisk 
placed at its center that, the locals believe, brings good 
luck and heals the pure of heart; 

• Caravan Court, an open, packed-dirt courtyard and gen 
eral assembling area for caravans that is always noisy 
with both draft animals and whip-happy drovers (and a 
ready supply of elderly spectators); 

• Kappiyan Flurmastyr's house (City Map Location S10), 
the modest domicile of an old wizard and his beautiful 
apprentice Shalara - rumor has it she is busy with recent 
apprentices of her own (much to the dismay of her 
countless suitors!); and 

• Mouse Alley, considered a sacred spot by those who wor 
ship Mystra, where Ahghairon pursued and caught the 
goddess while she was disguised as a mouse. 

Places of DawgeR 

There are lurking dangers within Southern Ward, as in 
Dock Ward. When out and about at night, be sure to have 
a lantern and a party of no fewer than four (unless you're 
looking for trouble!). South Ward's winding alleys and high 
buildings can distort sounds to make it difficult for the 
watch (or any Samaritan) to find the trouble. 

• Ilisar's Alley, once known as Grave Alley for the itiner 
ant poor buried there, and now rumored to hold danger 
ous undead spirits and the hidden wealth of a local tailor 
whose name now adorns the alley; 

• Rednose Alley, an alley lined by empty warehouses that 
plays host to young drifters and thieves eager to rob 
passersby (out of need or boredom) and dole out the 
bloody noses which give the alley its name; and 

• Ruid's Stroll, the short avenue from Caravan Court to 
the Trollwall Tower that, while often safe due to constant 
guard and watch traffic, is haunted by the hooded ghost 
of the mage Ruid, whose touch causes deathly chills to 
those he meets on foggy nights. 


T KA&&S Wa K& 

W ith no distinct look to separate it from surrounding 
wards. Trades Ward is somewhat lost in terms of 
neighborhood identity. On the other hand, though it lacks 
in neighborhood "feel," its sense of community in com 
merce occupies nearly every building and person within the 
entire ward. Many of Waterdeep's middle class and mer 
chant class live and work here. 

The busiest of wards due to all the constant commercial 
work within its boundaries. Trades Ward is active day and 
night, requiring excessive streetlights (many merchants say 
that Trades Ward at night is beautiful, "when her streets are 
filled with the stars of Waukeen"). The Guild of Chandlers 
and Lamplighters keeps a triple shift here at all times of the 
night, its streets filled with the bobbing lanterns of young 
lamplighters; the only more frequent sights in Trades Ward 
at night are the large and frequent watch patrols. While 
cursing, shoving, and minor street tussles are typical behav 
ior within this business district, the worst criminal offenses 
are theft, vandalism, and destruction of private property - 
the watch patrols are more often needed to protect thieves 
from angry merchants than to stop robberies! 

The ward boundaries are defined by the city walls and 
the City of the Dead on the east, and Andamaar's Street to 
the High Road on the north. The High Road and Snail 
Street border it on the west until Shesstra's Street cuts east 
to the Way of the Dragon where it links with the northern 
boundary of Southern Ward. Due to its central nature and 
rambling boundaries, it is hard to traverse the city without 
passing through this ward at some point. 

Aizoh )TecTuize 

Trades Ward's architecture is not any different from those 
wards it abuts. Therefore, depending on one's place in the 
ward, one can expect old stone and timber row houses and 
tenements, stone-walled villas converted to restaurants and 
vaults, or the high wattle-and-daub buildings that run 
three- and four-stories high above the High Road. The 
streets are always congested with carters, messengers, and 
customers. The cobblestone and corduroy streets are well 
worn from the heavy foot traffic, but the streets can only be 
swept at night when traffic is reduced to manageable flows. 
Still, debris and refuse are not a problem; often what one 
person casts away is claimed by another to sell (within rea 
son, as certain things such as ale, ink, or spoiled food can 
not be reclaimed). 


8 




9 















































LaMdmaRVs 

With much of the money and commercial interests of the 
City centered here, as well as a good share of Waterdeep's 
populace, this ward has a large number of places and 
notable landmarks that everyone finds of interest: 

Guild Halls 

Guild halls are the main attraction within Trades Ward, 
with over 40% of Waterdeep's guilds based herein. Many of 
the guild halls advertise their goods and wares with street 
cryers or large replicas of goods placed aside their headquar 
ters. Some of the more noted and recognizable of the guild 
halls are: 

• Costumers' Hall (City Map Location Til), base for the 
Order of Master Taylors, Glovers, & Mercers, little more 
than an overstocked shop of costumes and props, with 
meeting rooms in the upper floors; 

• the House of Light (City Map Location T29), the con 
stantly bright row house that comprises the hall of the 
Guild of Chandlers & Lamplighters, complete with a 
huge four-foot candle out front that is lit at night (it is 
one of the brightest spots in the ward at night and is eas 
ily found by the smell of lemon-scented wax); 

• the House of Song (City Map Location T19), the main 
guild hall of the Council of Musicians, Instrument-Mak 
ers, and Choristers; 

• Old Guild Hall (City Map Location T26), home to the 
Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild; and 

• the Zoarstar (City Map Location T25), the ever-busy 
headquarters of the Scriveners', Scribes', and Clerks' 
Guild which enjoys a constant crowd outside its windows 
looking in at displayed maps and charts (like a map of 
the city -useful for lost visitors!-and an exciting map of 
the Maztican lands to the west). 

Shops 

Shops within Trades Ward are too abundant to mention, 
though most (as in the city in general) are on the 
ground floors of two- or three-story buildings, with 
apartments above the first level. The best way to dis 
cover what's for sale and where is to wander the ward at 
night (with a lamplighter and a group of armed acquain 
tances) when the streets are relatively clear of traffic. 
After you've found what you want, retrace your path 
during the day. If you cannot find what you're looking 
for in Trades Ward, it may not exist in the Realms. Some 
more noted shops are: 


• Belmonder's Meats (City Map Location T23), the most 
popular butcher shop in the city with its wide variety of 
fresh meats (and small concession of fried meat scraps for 
a quick lunch); 

• Orsabbas's Fine Imports (City Map Location T17), an 
overpriced shop filled with rare imports from across (and 
under, some say) the Realms with a major side business 
in authentic costuming for nobles' parties; 

• Riautar's Weaponry (City Map Location T18), an excel 
lent source of secondhand weapons and "the best bows & 
arrows in the North" (many agree with the advertising- 
just look for a low building with the petrified harpy on 
the roof!); 

• The Riven Shield Shop (City Map Location T4), a shop 
famous in the Sword Coast region for affordable second 
hand weaponry and, more crucial to its notoriety, various 
magical or historical weapons and armor (such as the 
Scabbard of Acqa, the Bloody Shield of Rhidek Than, and 
the Cn/ing Flail of Aeltros); 

• Saern's Fine Swords (City Map Location T7), a minia 
ture castle and an expensive place to shop for a sword, 
but the Tethyran craftsmanship in all the swords is 
beyond compare (the shop's stone fortifications make it 
suitable as an emergency city guard post); and 

• Thentavva's Boots (City Map Location T12), a tiny, out 
of the way shop more easily spotted by the smell of 
tanned leather than its decorative pegasi (the prices are 
steep and the wait for boots and slippers is long, but the 
beautiful work holds up for years). 

Imws & TaueRws 

• Bowels of the Earth (City Map Location T36), an ill-lit 
rough-and-tumble tavern that caters to mercenaries look 
ing for employment (Blazidon One-Eye can be found 
here) or a good brawl; 

• Gondalim's (City Map Location T8), an established inn 
of many comforts, with single rooms or suites available at 
affordable prices (don't argue about the cost -the blood 
stain on the kitchen door is left there as a warning. . . .); 

• the Inn of the Dripping Dagger (City Map Location T3), 
a battle-scarred and bloodied door hiding an amiable, 
comfortable place for hire-swords to stay and be hired 
from (Filiare is Blazidon's chief competitor in finding jobs 
for mercenaries); 

• Maelstrom's Notch (City Map Location T13), a small 
inn known for costly but topnotch seafood from all parts 
along the Sword Coast; 




10 


• the Underdark (City Map Location Tl), an old, rare 
cellar tavern with low ceilings (5' clearance) that 
caters primarily to the dwarves, gnomes, halflings, and 
odd goblins in Waterdeep (its tough reputation of 
rousting humans and shapechangers is well deserved, 
often started with the uncanny knife-throwing of 
Amaqel the gnome barkeep, and finished by the dwar- 
ven bouncers); and 

• the Unicorn's Horn (City Map Location T15), a deca 
dent and costly inn to stay at (its Imperial Suite on the 
sixth floor has an impressive view, but not one worth 40 
gold pieces a night!), its saving grace being its strategic 
placement on the High Road. 

OTberc. PLaces of boTeizesT 

• The Court of the White Bull, an open plaza of packed 
dirt and straw where livestock can be bought and sold 
and where merchants sell fresh goods direct from the car 
avans (people whisper that magic goes wild in the Court, 
and its use here is expressly forbidden by the Lords, lend 
ing proof to the rumor); 

• Mhair's Tower (City Map Location T6), the five-storied 
tower home of Mhair Szeltune, Lady Master of the 
Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors; 

• The Plinth (City Map Location T38), the tallest build 
ing in the ward at six stories, which acts as an open tem 
ple for all faiths (as well as a landing place for the city 
guards' griffon steeds); and 

• Virgin's Square, a cobblestone courtyard where merce 
naries of all types gather to await hire (and many other 
citizens linger to watch the boastful warriors and the 
constant traffic on the main roads). 

Places of Dahjgerc. 

Given the quick turnover of most merchandise, the alleys 
of Trades Ward are almost constantly filled with refuse, 
empty crates, damaged or spoiled goods, and other garbage. 
The narrow alleys are reduced even further by makeshift 
middens and dumps; many heroes have been brought low 
by the limited room that hampers many weapons. Thieves 
tend to lurk within the alleys, using abandoned crates and 
wrecked carts for both cover and impromptu weapons, tum 
bling them upon passersby (whom they swiftly rob). The 
more noted (or notorious) alleys and danger spots are: 


• Blackhorn Alley, known and named for Alsible Black- 
horn the cobbler, now the haunt of a number of large, 
brown rats; 

• Brindul Alley, lair of the Hand that Sings, a magical 
phantasm of a hand with a mouth in its palm, which 
snatches valuables from the unwary while singing 
ancient Sword Coast ballads; 

• Chelor's Alley, used often by the watch and nighttime 
passersby due to Chelor the merchant's effusive lanterns 
hung out over the alley; 

• Dark Alley, one of the most dangerous alleys of Trades 
Ward, its gloomy depths - shadowy even at highsun - 
make it a favorite lurking place for cutpurses and thugs; 

• Lathin's Cut, named after the former landowner who had 
his house destroyed upon his death to provide this short 
passage from the Plinth to the High Road; 

• Mhaer's Alley, a street with a great collection of shops on 
all sides along its length, and includes such places as 
Chuki's Moneylenders, the Old Druid's Herbs & Seeds 
Shoppe, Salavant's Scriveners, Marie's Dry Goods, Dia- 
bel's Potions & Curatives, Huer's Sundries (a rumored 
fence and contact for thieves!), Caer Bannog (a Moon- 
shae imports shop), and many others; 

• Quill Alley, the thoroughfare for the primary neighbor 
hood of clerks, scribes, and cartographers (recent rumors 
tell of the indelible ink stain on its eastern end rising to 
spell out messages of doom and danger on the outside 
walls of the Old Guild Hall!); 

• Spendthrift Alley, a street with an ever present supply of 
vendors in a local street bazaar that goes on all day and 
all night (come here if you're looking for minor items, 
trinkets, or quick snacks, but mind your purse!); 

• Theln Lane, an echoing chamber framed by tall buildings 
with balconies from which hard currency girls call to cus 
tomers; 

• Tsarnen Alley, a once-favorite place for thieves and cut 
throats that was defended by Tsarnen the ranger quite 
vigorously (some say his shade still watches and keeps 
the alley safe, while others offer that the spirits of slain 
thieves haunt its environs); and 

• Urcandle Alley, the alley to visit if in need of spare parts 
or repairs on your wagon or cart, and also a meeting place 
for agents of the Wheelwrights' Guild and the Wagon- 
makers' and Coach Builders' Guilds. 



Nor Th W&K& 

H ome to the many wealthier middle class, lesser 
nobles, and well-to-do merchants, North Ward is a 
quiet haven from the hustle and bustle of Waterdeep's 
commercial endeavors. Dominated by residences, this 
ward tends toward insular, walled villas and distinctly 
individual stone and timber houses. While, on the sur 
face, it seems tedious compared to the rest of the city, 
North Ward seethes with intrigues of far-reaching effects 
hidden just beneath the surface. There is little for visitors 
to do within this ward beyond gawk at the marvelous 
houses and towers, unless they are already linked into the 
nobles' or guilds' politics. 

The city watch keeps this ward under tight control, 
suffering noise and disruption only from the local 
nobles and dandies while rousting noisy trespassers. 
Though lightly armed, the watch maintains a constant 
presence in North Ward, making it as safe as one can be 
in a city of this size. If ever a place "closes down upon 
the cobbles at dusk," North Ward fits the bill. 

North Ward's western boundaries consist of the High 
Road with a western arm extending to Shield Street along 
Vondhil Street and Trader's Way. Andamaar's Street marks 
the southern border, while the walls of the City of the 
Dead and the Trollwall close out the rest of the ward. 

Aizch )TecTuize 

The first thing to notice here is the lack of row buildings 
that dominate much of Waterdeep, Herein the lowest types 
of buildings are two-story cottages with expensive wood 
and slate decorations. The more common domiciles share 
such details as wrought iron fences, rooftop spires, gabled 
roofs, and ornate carving work on statuary and wallwork 
alike. The walled noble villas and grand merchant houses 
contain gardens with elaborate adornments. In many ways, 
this ward seems more prosperous than Sea Ward, but the 
neighbors to the west are quick to remind folk that "we 
need not show our wealth and station in such gaudy, tact 
less ways, for we are above such petty one-upmanship." 

Nearly all of the streets and alleys in North Ward are 
cobblestone-paved, testifying to the comparable youth of 
this area. The Dungsweepers' Guild members all prefer to 
work here, as the haughty, affluent inhabitants often pay 
well for additional streetsweeping (and "accidental" 
mishaps upon the stoops of rivals). 


Due to the more regular streets and the larger, easier-to-dis- 

cern land holdings of the nobles here, it is far easier to find 

one's way around this ward than any others to the south. 

The landmarks are, rather than useful guides to direct lost 

persons, places that stand out in importance to visitors. 

Guild Halls 

• The House of Crystal (City Map Location N46), the 
beautiful window-heavy headquarters of the Guild of 
Glassblowers, Glaziers, and Speculum-Makers, and a 
source of fine crystal balls and mirrors; and 

• the House of Healing (City Map Location N51), the 
main headquarters of the Guild of Apothecaries & Physi 
cians, which acts as a potion shop, emergency hospital, 
and minor school for student physicians. 

Shops 

• Aurora's Realms Shop ("High Road" Catalogue Counter) 
(City Map Location N50), the most lavish of Aurora's six 
shops in Waterdeep with a large on-site stock of rare and 
costly items (to tempt the nobles); 

• Downybeard Tobacconist (City Map Location N60), a 
small, aromatic shop with a wide variety of pipeweed, 
tobacco, and snuff (Kro Downybeard, the halfling owner 
from Luiren, turns a good coin on made-to-order wooden 
pipes with hand-carved crests and symbols on them); 

• Fallen Stars Fish (City Map Location N54), a small shop 
that sells fresh fish "from the Sea of Fallen Stars" (and 
they are native to that region), and many pay Gatos Fir- 
lack's exorbitant prices for cleaned and gutted fish appar 
ently no more than hours old (many whisper of magic 
gates that let him travel to his mysterious suppliers!); 

• Hriiat Fine Pastries (City Map Location N61), a won 
drous bakery run by the master of the Baker's Guild, with 
constant crowds forming when the smells of new pastries 
roll out into the streets (the meat and vegetable meal 
loaf is a savory meal for those on the go); and 

• Sulmest's Splendid Shoes & Boots (City Map Location 
N49), a frighteningly expensive shop for footwear, but 
their guarantees on craftsmanship bear up as well as their 
fashionable boots do. 

Iwws & TaveRws 

• The Gentle Mermaid (City Map Location N27), the site 
of one of the largest gambling houses in Faerun and a 
luxurious place to see and be seen; 




12 








13 























• The Grinning Lion (City Map Location N56), a raucous 
tavern favored by less adventurous young nobles (who 
dare not visit Dock Ward); 

• The Misty Beard (City Map Location N32), a spectacu 
lar tavern for thrill-seekers, since the staff is made up of 
rare and exotic monsters all carefully controlled by the 
owners; and 

• Twilight Hunters (City Map Location N26), a new inn 
decorated with various adventuring equipment and battle 
trophies (actually used or slain by the owners, whose 
company name adorns the inn) that is attracting atten 
tion with its unique (and fiery) "orangeberry wine." 

OTheiz Places of ImTckcsT 

• Hawkwinter House (City Map Location Nil), the 
walled villa containing three castlelike buildings and 
many lavish parties; and 

• High House of Roaringhorn (City Map Location N42), a 
once-proud villa reduced to a shambles by excessively 
frequent parties, though its appearance does not detract 
from this noble family's goodwill throughout the city. 


Places of DaKjgeR 

Comparatively speaking, the alleys in this ward are nearly 
as safe as a hallway in one's own home. They are, at their 
worst, quiet places for drunken nobles and turned-out 
guests to sleep off the night's revelry without fear of inter 
ruption. However, the backstreets do contain some items of 
interest and threat: 

• The Cliffwatch Ruins, a high wooden wall around the 
northeast comer of Endcliff Lane and Nindabar Street 
and the former site of a thriving inn, now constantly 
guarded and garrisoned by the guard to keep curiosity 
seekers away (or to protect them from what lies within, 
some say . . .); 

• Manycats Alley, the home of many cats that feed on 
scraps from the surrounding butcher shops, and also 
known for carved stone heads that line its walls (some 
say they speak portents of evil to passersby!); and 

• Watch Alley, a rallying point for the watch patrols of the 
ward where single, severed, bare human feet are found at 
odd times (a mark of punishment used by the old 
Shadow Thieves' Guild of Waterdeep). 










Sea War£ 

A s the wealthiest ward of the city, Sea Ward is the seat 
of power for the established noble houses. Nearly 
empty during the winter due to the fierce sea storms, many 
of the nobles, well-to-do merchants, and social climbers 
call this home in the summer. Walking along the Street of 
the Singing Dolphin, the major avenue for the ward, one 
can expect to spot many of the grandest homes in Water- 
deep, from the spires and gables of noble villas to the 
craggy and mysterious turrets of the wizards' towers. Sea 
Ward also contains many of the city's temples and Heroes' 
Garden, the only public garden outside the City of the 
Dead. Truly important (and self-important) people come to 
this ward to build their opulent homes while more modest 
folk or those more entrenched in the everyday politics and 
power of the city often choose to live in Castle Ward. 

As with North Ward, watch patrols are quite frequent as 
one of the benefits of position. They are always polite and 
generally lightly armed, as most of the miscreants they find 
in this ward are well-dressed, drunken nobles who need 
only to be steered to the next party. The watch deals swiftly 
with any other disruptions, their tolerance for any vandal 
ism, violence, or theft being quite low. 

The boundaries for this district are Julthoon Street and 
Shield Street, with a small eastern arm extending to the 
High Road along Vondil Street. 

Arc.cb)TecTurc.e 

Aside from Piergeiron's Palace, you cannot find more finely 
crafted workmanship than the homes of Sea Ward. While 
North Ward tends toward pretense, the older, grander villas 
and temples of this ward have an air of stateliness and majesty 
(and haughtiness). The ward's variety of building details are 
astounding, from talking tavern signs that wink at customers to 
three gilded towers that seem braided together. While seeming 
petty and grasping to outsiders, an address here is not a joking 
matter, and many Waterdhavians spend their entire lives hop 
ing to get a good address within Sea Ward's boundaries. 

Most of the ward's streets are paved in cobbles or cor 
duroy. The nobles insist on getting the rest of the alleys 
paved, but the Lords' Loyal Order of Street Laborers are 
under express orders to maintain the existing corduroy 
roads. They may, however, replace the corduroy by the 
House of Inspired Hands with cobblestone, as frequent 
"testings" and explosions have set the log road on fire on 
three separate occasions in the past year. 


LaMdmaRVs 

As with North Ward, the wider streets and the easier-to- 
find locations eliminate the need to use buildings and busi 
nesses as landmarks for directional purposes. Of note to the 
business-minded, there are no guild halls here, but there 
are six temple complexes (and numerous businesses that 
cater to the faithful pilgrims of many different beliefs). 
Although the temples do not hold as much power as com 
merce in Waterdeep, many of the respective faiths have 
their greatest temples within this city. Adventurers in Sea 
Ward are rare, though there are places at the north end of 
the city that cater more to the guard and adventurers than 
to the nobles. 

Temples 

• The House of Heroes (City Map Location $58), the 
largest of the temples in the city, is dedicated to Tempus, 
the Lord of Battle, and attracts spectators and combat 
ants alike from the nearby Field of Triumph; 

• The House of Inspired Hands (City Map Location $38), 
an enterprising temple to Gond that frequently abounds 
with new and noisy inventions of its faithful, it has lost 
some support in recent months with the new temple to 
Oghma in Castle Ward; 

• The House of the Moon (City Map Location $56), 
Selune's gilded temple where pilgrims flock to see the 
Wand of the Four Moons, a holy relic said to hold some of 
Selune's power (many even claim that the Lady of Silver 
battled the goddess Shar in the city during the Time of 
Troubles!); 

• The House of Wonder (City Map Location $21), the 
ornate tower for the faithful of Mystra with her holy sym 
bol in mosaics on the courtyard (the tower is in the cen 
ter of a circle of stars with red mist flowing toward the 
entrance to the tower); 

• The Shrines of Nature (City Map Location $5), the 
walled and forested complex that holds unpretentious 
temples to Silvanus and Mielikki; 

• The Temple of Beauty (City Map Location $10), a lavish 
temple of marble, gold, and silver with many statues of 
the goddess and her most comely worshipers throughout 
Realms' history; and 

• The Tower of Luck (City Map Location $19), the second 
largest temple in Waterdeep, is a large walled tower, its 
clergy funneling its weighty resources into improving the 
complex and undermining the city of Arabel's claim as 
the center for Tymoran worship. 






15 



6 















































Shops 

• Aurora's Realms Shop ("Singing Dolphin" Catalogue 
Counter) (City Map Location $18), an opulent showcase 
of Aurora's high-priced catalogue items that is staffed by 
a handsome clerk and an arrogant mage of some power; 

• Halazar's Fine Gems (City Map Location $60), a jewelry 
shop that prides itself as much on its expensive prices as 
its magically shining black walls; and 

• Selchoun's Sundries Shop (City Map Location $3), a 
shop filled with trinkets both useful (twine, flint, etc.) 
and useless (childrens' tabards marked as "Junior Watch 
Member" or "Waterdeep Griffon Cub Patrol") that 
moved to its new location after a mysterious, fiery end to 
its Feather Street site. 

Ikjws & Tavokki 5 

• The Broken Lance (City Map Location $59), a cozy tav 
ern frequented and staffed by the athletes and fighters 
from the Field of Triumph (the eel pie is the house spe 
cialty!); 

• The Fiery Flagon (City Map Location $37), a tavern that 
is famous among sailors the Realms over for its seafaring 
decor and pricey fare (without the trouble and decay of 
the Dock Ward); 

• The Golden Flarp Inn (City Map Location $4), a com 
fortable two-story stone and slate inn, cheery and well lit 
at all times and noted for the magical harp that appears 
in mid-air at odd times to sing and play ancient ballads 
by itself; 

• Gounar's Tavern (City Map Location $55), a brightly lit, 
expensive place that's more a showcase for Waterdeep's 
high society at play than a tavern; 

• The Pilgrim's Rest (City Map Location $42), a comfort 
able but modest (for Waterdeep) inn that provides 
affordable stabling and lodgings for many visitors of 
Waterdeep's temples; and 

• Wyvern's Rest (City Map Location $2), a former watch- 
post and blockhouse, this one-story stone tavern is a 
favorite of watch and guard members, its hallmark being 
the stuffed wyvern that looms over the bar. 


OThoti Places of IwTeResT 

• Blue Alley (City Map Location $8), a large windowless 
stone building that houses a deadly magical trap-laden 
obstacle course, created by a wizard (who may live there 
yet) to test the avaricious fools who wander into its blue- 
tiled passages; 

• The Dragon Tower of Maaril (City Map Location $30), a 
wizard's tower encircled by walls and an aura of menace, 
its sinister and dangerous air only amplified by the 
tower's shape of a dragon rampant; 

• The Field of Triumph, the vast, open stadium that plays 
host to gladiatorial combats, illusion and spell exhibitions, 
and other public gatherings (be sure to see the Lion Gate, 
the awe-inspiring carved grand entrance!); and 

• Naingate (City Map Location $15), a walled enclosure 
around a famous wizard's tower with a magical mid-air 
waterfall that appears in the courtyard (appearing from 
nothing and splashing but not collecting on the cobble 
stones!). 

Places of DawgeR 

Like North Ward, Sea Ward's "dangerous places" are 
minuscule compared with the ink-black alleys of Dock 
Ward. More distinctly, the alleys here contain more 
intrigue due to the gossip-mongers within them than any 
skulking thief, as the nobles do love their sport. Some of 
the more interesting alleys and byways are: 

• Gondwatch Lane, the charred corduroy lane at the 
southern entrance to the Flouse of Inspired Flands where 
many Gondsmen's inventions are tested; 

• Kulzar's Alley, a short alley close to Fleroes' Walk that 
allegedly hides both the buried treasure of Kulzar and 
many treasure-hunters eager to find it; 

• Pharra's Alley, named for the first Magistress of the 
Flouse of Wonder but infamous for the Circle of Skulls 
that spew either helpful news or deadly spells; 

• Prayer Alley, a short run parallel to Phastal Street that is 
the location of a vanishing mages' shop; 

• Rook Alley, the last headquarters of the Rook, an infa 
mous thief from 50 years agone, and the entry location to 
numerous tunnels and burial crypts that hold much trea 
sure (and undead danger . . .); and 

• Wagonslide Alley, a loose-stone paved alleyway that 
causes as many to trip over its cobbles as wagons used to 
slip on water or sea-rime (rumor has it thieves hide invisi 
ble weapons and secret messages under the stones). 



CasTLe W<\iz$> 


I n terms of both geography and power, Castle Ward is 
the city's center. Most, if not all, of the city's adminis 
trative buildings are within the ward boundaries, from the 
lofty spires of Piergeiron's Palace to the low-slung crenela- 
tions of the guard smithy. While money and social standing 
are the prevalent benchmarks of might in the City of 
Splendors, Waterdeep's true power and what keeps it run 
ning are the Lords and Magisters here. If you like the taste 
of power and authority mixed with the usual commerce of 
the city, Castle Ward is the place to go. 

The city guard maintains a strong presence in Castle 
Ward due to the concentration of city officials and areas of 
importance in need of heavier security. Even so, the watch 
maintains much of the order, especially around the Market, 
the Palace, and the Castle Ward docks. Like the guard, the 
watch makes a show of force in Castle. Ward, traveling in 
larger patrols of six and brandishing short swords in addi 
tion to their normal rods and clubs. 

The ward boundaries are the southern side of Julthoon 
Street over to Shield Street and down to Trader's Way on 
the north, meeting up with the High Road and Snail Street 
for the eastern perimeter. Lackpurse Lane, Belnimbra's 
Street, Gut Alley, and Shesstra's Street combine in an 
uneven boundary to the south, whereas the mountain and 
the coastline form the western edges of the ward. While 
Castle Ward covers the most territory. Mount Waterdeep 
makes up a lot of empty land and the ward is effectively lit 
tle larger than Sea or North Ward. 

A rich KecTuize 

It is hard to pin down a "typical" architectural detail for Cas 
tle Ward, as there are so many different structures here that 
dominate the skyline. The city buildings, temples, and wiz 
ards' towers are impressive stone structures, with the Palace 
and Castle in leagues of their own. Folk who quest for power 
but lack the funds to rise above the merchant class often 
dwell in the environs north of Waterdeep Way, their homes 
either well-kept row houses of three to four stories or individ 
ual homes of one or two stories. In either case, structures tend 
to be timber and wattle-and-daub with stone foundations 
nestled among the shops. The southern leg of the ward is pri 
marily made up of barracks and warehouses attached to the 
castle and to various wealthier merchants and noble houses. 
The only discernible difference between Castle Ward's docks 
and Dock Ward are the heavier watch patrols. 


In terms of roads and byways, Castle Ward is by far the 
easiest ward to traverse due to the paving on many of its 
larger, primary roads. Even with heavy cart traffic on the 
roads, it is possible to travel from the Field of Triumph to 
Castle Waterdeep in the same time it takes to cover one- 
third of Dock Ward's docks. The paving is primarily for 
access by dignitaries and officials of the city and other for 
eign powers (and use during holidays for parades). 

LaMdmaRlcs 

The primary landmark within Castle Ward is, of course, 
Mount Waterdeep. The lone, high mountain shelters much 
of the city from the full wrath of the sea storms, though it 
protects the city from other dangers as well. The Mount is 
riddled with tunnels and caverns, the mysteries of which are 
imponderable to the average citizen and dangerous enough to 
tighten the throat of the doughtiest guardsman. It is rumored 
that, for this very reason, the city guard keeps a detachment 
within the Mount at all times, keeping civilians out of the 
mountain (and things from coming out into the city . . .). 

Castle Waterdeep, the Mountain Tower, and Peaktop 
Eyrie are the first and last defenses for the city, set high 
above the city on the mountain. In these buildings, as well 
as in Mount Waterdeep, the city guard keeps armories, the 
city's principal granaries, and stables its flights of griffon 
steeds. These caverns connect Castle Waterdeep and Peak- 
top Eyrie (the main landing and springing-aloft area for the 
griffons) - rumor has it that the tunnels also connect to 
Piergeiron's Palace and Undermountain, the subterranean 
city-dungeon beneath Waterdeep. 

Among the other sights to see and visit are: 

Guild Halls 

• Fellowship Hall (City Map Location C39), the headquar 
ters of the Fellowship of Innkeepers that operates as a 
members-only inn one night a tenday; 

• House of the Fine Carvers (City Map Location C21), the 
slate-roofed wooden base of the Guild of Fine Carvers, easily 
found on the High Road with its frieze of carved animals and 
people (including Ahghairon and other First Lords); and 

• Tower of the Order (City Map Location C15), a three- 
story stone tower surrounded by a fence of sparkling 
green lights that coalesce into Azuth's and Mystra's 
symbols (the hand of Azuth mosaic over the tower door 
is rumored to watch the tower and fire magic at any 
intruders!). 





18 



19 


































Temples 

• The Cynosure (City Map Location C7), the former 
grand House of the Overgod (temple of Ao), which now 
serves as a rental hall and public forum; 

• The Font of Knowledge (City Map Location C4), an old 
warehouse bought and newly dedicated as a temple to 
Oghma, the wooden structure swiftly being replaced by a 
three-story stone and timber library and monastery; 

• The Halls of Justice (City Map Location C5), a four- 
year-old compound that houses a modest temple to Tyr 
and very ardent followers; and 

• The Spires of the Morning (City Map Location Cl), a 
walled garden compound with eight beautiful gilded tow 
ers that reflect Lathander's dawn. 

Shops 

• Balthorr's Rare & Wondrous Treasures (City Map Loca 
tion C14), a curio and coin shop owned by an expert on 
coins and military markings; 

• Halambar Lutes & Harps (City Map Location C25), the 
place to find any stringed instrument of the Realms 
(expect to pay dearly for quality), and host to a magical 
harp that sings by itself (and is a rumored Harper treasure); 

• Halls of Hilmer, Master Armorer (City Map Location 
C23), a hard-to-miss shop (due to its front of polished 
plate armor) selling custom-made armor (practice rooms 
provided for trying out armor) that is without parallel on 
the Sword Coast; 

• The Market, the largest open area of the city that plays 
host to hundreds of stalls and camped vendors able to sell 
you anything in the Realms (and many thieves to relieve 
you of the same); and 

• Phalantar's Philtres & Components (City Map Location 
C33), a small shop for medicinal herbs and ingredients 
for oils, perfumes, and potions (the owner allegedly sup 
ports adventuring companies in exchange for the rare 
substances he sells here). 

Iwws & TaveRws 

• The Crawling Spider (City Map Location C20), a tavern 
for subterraneans that pine for their homes (and loyal 
regulars who like the thrilling atmosphere), decorated as 
if underground with its barmaids decked out like drow 
priestesses (and its many small "caverns" leading into 
shadows best left alone by nosy strangers); 

• The Elfstone Tavern (City Map Location C32), an old 
earthy tavern, with live trees in the walls and the bar, 


that caters to elves and half-elves and is a rare source of 
such delicacies as elverquisst, guldathen nectar, and 
maerlathen blue wine; 

• The Jade Jug (City Map Location C38), Waterdeep's 
plushest inn with luxury in every detail (and well worth 
the expensive prices!); 

• The Mighty Manticore (City Map Location C12), an 
older friendly tavern with ample ale and light evening 
fare at affordable prices that attracts a loyal clientele of 
merchants at the close of day; 

• The Quaffing Quaggoth (City Map Location C53), a 
dwarven-owned tavern (a growing favorite tavern of 
sailors, merchants, and young nobles), which serves its 
specialty - the Quaggoth (a thick house-brewed stout 
mixed with an unknown liquor that's "guaranteed to curl 
every hair on a quaggoth and then some!"); and 

• Silavene's (City Map Location C3), a popular festhall 
and gambling house in what was once the Marblehearth 
villa (the mysterious southern owner is rumored to have 
two genies as her servants!). 

Othen Places of IwteRest 

• Ahghairon's Tower, the slim stone tower of the original 
First Lord of the city that is surrounded by invisible magi 
cal barriers that suspend the skeletal remains of a wizard 
who tried to get into the tower; 

• The Bell Tower (City Map Location C46), a simple bell 
tower used to signal fires, attacks, and calls for assembly 
at the Palace; 

• Blackstaff Tower (City Map Location C6), the imposing 
dark stone tower with no apparent entrances or win 
dows that is the home of Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, 
archmage of Waterdeep and suspected Lord, and his 
apprentices; 

• Fair Winds (City Map Location C2), the only rental villa 
still vacant on the Cliffride; 

• House of Loene (City Map Location C42), the miniature 
castle that is home for Loene, a former member of the 
Company of Crazed Venturers (surrounded by a magical 
fence that unleashes lightning on trespassers and thieves!); 

• Mirt's Mansion (City Map Location C52), the most 
famous landmark around Castle Ward's docks, this 
stronghold is home to one of Waterdeep's richest ex 
adventurers; 

• New Olamn, the new bards' college of Waterdeep 
ensconced at the end of the Cliffride and the magically 
lit tunnel known as Melody Mount Walk; 




• Piergeiron's Palace, the center of Waterdeep's govern 
ment with various courts, embassies, and city offices 
therein (as well as the living chambers of First Lord 
Piergeiron); and 

• The Walking Statue, one of eight known (though some 
speak of more than nine!) 90-foot-tall stone golems cre 
ated by Khelben Arunsun to defend any gaps in Water- 
deep's defenses, this regal figure stands at the Gull Leap 
cliff at the end of Julthoon Street. 

Places of DaiogeR 

The last of the safer places to visit at night, Castle 
Ward's alleys have almost all become proper streets. 
With the abundance of important folk and their body 
guards to say nothing of the frequent guard and watch 
patrols, thieves have little interest in skulking about 
here. Some of the places of local lore and interest are 
the following: 

• Buckle Alley, once the heart of the Shadow Thieves' 
Guild territory, city guardsmen were warned to buckle on 
their blades before entering it; 


• Cat Alley, a.k.a. Cats Alley, this narrow twisting, turning 
passage was frequented years ago by a masked, rapier- 
wielding man of wealth who scared young women and 
cut away their garments but was never arrested; 

• Elsambul's Lane, named for a long-dead priest of Mask 
and now one of the few areas with graffiti on its walls 
(they say Elsambul himself still leaves enigmatic mes 
sages and clues to hidden treasures on the walls!), it 
attracts many folk beyond simple curiosity seekers; 

• Jesters' Court, a courtyard -frequented now by hard-cur- 
rency girls and minstrels - that has also been a perfor 
mance stage for jugglers and comics as well as a meeting 
place for eloping lovers; 

• Sevenlamps Cut, named for seven fancy magical lamps 
placed here long ago by Ahghairon himself, this safe 
alley is the place to hire spellcasters (apprentice wizards 
and poor underpriests) for quick healing, curse removals, 
or some magical firepower for your latest excursion into 
Undermountain; and 

• Turnback Court, a lamplit, shallow alley at the end of 
Selduth Street that is used as a rallying point for watch 
and guard patrols both day and night. 


21 




Dock Wak£ 

P orts, by their very nature, are unclean, noisy, crowded, 
and constantly busy places where few outsiders are wel 
come. Waterdeep's Dock Ward fits this mold, though its noto 
riety and bedlam are, if nothing else, slightly muted by the 
tales told up and down the Sword Coast. It was best described, 
by a wizard of no little note, as a "riotous, semi-stationary but 
nigh-perpetual brawl that covers entire acres and is inter 
rupted only by small buildings, intermittent trade business, an 
errant dog or two, and a few brave watchmen (who do manage 
to keep the chaos from spreading beyond the docks), the 
whole lot wallowing in the stench of rotting fish. Still, in all, 
"twas quite a lusty, intriguing place to spend an evening." 

City watch patrols and guard contingents keep this ward 
in a semblance of order, traveling in well-armed groups of 
eight during the day and groups of twelve or more after 
dusk. Many of the roads are gravel-packed dirt, once the 
docks and cobblestone access roads to the Way of the 
Dragon are left behind. The dark, mud-strewn alleys are 
endless in Dock Ward, and they hide many dangers, despite 
the alertness of Waterdeep's defenders, so travel in large, 
heavily armed groups if you must. 

Dock Ward's boundaries, quickly stated, are the harbor 
and the southern boundaries of Castle and Trades Wards. 
The northern boundary runs north and east on Lackpurse 
Lane to Belnimbra's Street, over and down Gut Alley, and 
turns east to Shesstra's Street. Moving east and turning 
south onto Book Street, the boundary moves east again on 
Drakiir Street until it meets the Way of the Dragon, the 
eastern perimeter of Dock Ward. The southern border of 
the ward is, of course, the docks and the harbor. 

Aizch'iTecTuize 

Despite being the oldest settled area of Waterdeep, Dock Ward 
consists of many wooden structures all built upon each other 
with a few stone buildings to provide structural support for the 
rest. While people worked and lived here for 1000 years before 
Ahghairon's rule, few buildings last for more than 30 years. 
The only permanent constructions that have existed for exten 
sive periods of time in Dock Ward are the docks themselves, as 
well as the protective harbor walls and the towers of Deep- 
watch Isle. With the relatively new cobblestone streets along 
the docks providing easier access to trade routes within the 
city, talk is circulating of updating and improving buildings 
along those routes. As far as the Lords are concerned, any 
improvements here are definitely for the better. 


LaiodmaRlcs 

Finding the landmarks and "sights to see" within Dock 
Ward is akin to hunting for raw diamonds and uncut gems 
in a pile of mud-soaked gravel. Unless you're feeling adven 
turous or have need of the more sinister services provided 
here, Dock Ward is no place to go hunting for new experi 
ences. The sights many visiting sailors, cutthroats, and 
fools with little brains look for are: 

Guild Halls 

• The Butchers' Guild Hall (City Map Location D47), a 
recently renovated timber-frame two-story guild house 
with an available cold cellar for the guild members' over 
stock; 

• League Hall (City Map Location D46), a large tannery 
with an upper-level tavern for the business of the League 
of Skinners & Tanners; 

• Mariner's Hall (City Map Location D44), a lavish two- 
story wattle-and-daub building just off the Way of the 
Dragon that puts up many a visiting ship's captain during 
and after guild business; and 

• The Metal House of Wonder (City Map Location D3), 
the metal-roofed base of the Splendid Order of Armorers, 
Locksmiths, and Finesmiths; and 

• Watermen's Hall (City Map Location D43), the Guild of 
Watermen's boat- and warehouse that serves as their 
headquarters, the boathouse for their skiffs and ferries, 
and storage for any and all flotsam and jetsam found 
while keeping the harbor clear. 

Shops 

• House of Pride Perfumes (City Map Location D33), a 
veritable glass jungle of bottles filled with exotic per 
fumes and other scents; 

• Serpentil Books & Folios (City Map Location DIO), an 
exclusive and expensive shop that traffics in all manner 
of maps, charts, and books (no magical tomes for sale 
unless you've one to trade); 

• the Smokehouse (City Map Location D52), used by the 
Fishmongers' Fellowship and the Guild of Butchers, this 
rare one-story brick smokehouse almost always smells of 
curing meats or fish; and 

• Whistling Blades (City Map Location D5), a shop that 
specializes in daggers, blades, and knives (if you're 
vouched for by a friend, Ertyl Velun can show you special 
behind-the-counter items such as toe-blades or hidden 
arm scabbards with fast releases). 








































Imms & TaveRMs 

Dock Ward has the greatest concentration of taverns, inns, 
and festhalls in the city. Many are ramshackle, tiny places 
that cater to the standard clientele of the area -the sea 
farer ashore for a fortnight looking for some adventure and 
ways to be parted from hard-earned gold. Other places look 
to attracting a better-paying crowd by improving their 
places above the general squalor of much of the ward. 
Some of the more infamous stops are: 

• Cookhouse Hall (City Map Location D57), a large hall 
that serves simple hot meals and passable drink to weary 
travelers and those down on their luck for two coppers 
(sponsored jointly by the Lords and Lord Ulmassus 
Phull); 

• The Copper Cup (City Map Location D54), three old 
three- and four-story warehouses linked and converted 
into one of Waterdeep's busiest and most famous taverns, 
inns, or festhalls, depending on what one looks for (a rare 
building with two -maybe more! -cellars for more busi 
ness and storage); 

• Full Sails (City Map Location D35), a merry, bright tav 
ern on Net Street at the docks that serves as the head 
quarters of the Most Diligent League of Sail-Makers and 
Cordwainers; 

• The Hanging Lantern (City Map Location D22), a festhall 
famed for its stunning escorts and its skilled matchmakers, 
as well as a side business in costume rental; 

• Shipmasters' Hall (City Map Location D42), a private 
inn and dining club for captains, first mates, and ship 
owners and their escorts with an interior elegance that 
far outweighs its exterior (sponsored by the Master 
Mariners' Guild); and 

• The Ship's Prow (City Map Location Dll), an inn well 
known among sailors of the Sword Coast and easily 
found as it's actually a converted ship's prow that now 
juts into Fish Street and Ship Street (the prices and ser 
vices in this four-story inn are reasonable, though the 
clientele often isn't); 

• Three Pearls Nightclub (City Map Location D18), a pop 
ular festhall with nightly stage acts such as comedians, 
trained animal acts, illusionists' displays, recitals by 
famed bards and orators (even moreso with New Olamn 
open), and exotic dancing; and 

• Warm Beds (City Map Location D15), a quiet, homelike 
inn with little more than what its name guarantees. 


OTheiz Places of IwTercesT 

• Fishgut Court, a cobblestone court off Sail and Dock 
Streets where many strange happenings occur during 
nights of the full moon (many say the owner of a nearby 
tavern often speaks with Selune, and moonlight shines 
onto the court); 

• The Old Xoblob Shop, a curio shop famous in the city 
for battle trophies from places far and near (especially 
Undermountain, which has a gate that deposits adventur 
ers here); and 

• Smugglers' Dock, the most isolated corner of the ward 
and also its safest, under the watchful eyes in Mirt's 
Mansion and the Watching Tower, used often for 
lovers' rendezvous. 

Places of DaKjgeR 

Above all the other places within miles of Waterdeep 
(aside from Undermountain), Dock Ward contains danger 
in no short supply. The congestion of refuse and discarded 
goods narrow many alleys in ways similar to those in Trades 
Ward, though the refuse here is weeks if not months old 
and a planned factor in many thieves' ambushes. While it 
is almost impossible to memorize the alley and street layout 
of the ward, its quick twists and turns make it child's play 
to avoid capture. Of course, blindly ducking around corners 
and into or out of doors can often introduce you to other 
perils just as deadly as the one you're fleeing! Among the 
more notorious of Dock Ward's many alleys are: 

• Black Well Court, the small back-alley home to a pol 
luted, monster-infested well that is now sealed by order of 
the Lords with magic and masonry; 

• Manysteps Alley, a narrow alley that is the habitat of 
soothsayers, fortune tellers, and thieves galore; 

• Melinter's Court, a dark courtyard often thick with the 
pipe smoke of curbside philosophers and corner sages 
(and sometimes the plotting of evil wizards); 

• Philosopher's Court, also known by natives as "the Fool- 
square," a daily (and often nightly) meeting place for 
intellectuals, old sages, and drunken nobles alike found 
arguing over "topics too esoteric for a common mind"; 

• Round Again Alley, an alley that doubles back on itself 
and provides a testing ground for many apprentices' illu 
sions; and 

• Three Thrown Daggers Alley, which suffers from a magi 
cal curse that causes three random blades to fly from 
nowhere to attack passersby in the alley. 


Mb, 


he preceding chapter gave players a very broad look at the city with a 
few anecdotes for "local color." Now, no city stays the same year in 
and year out (let alone day in and day out). This chapter shows you 
the changes the city undergoes with the changing seasons and with 
the end of day. It also details the city's festivals, celebrations, and all 
the other myriad happenings in life that can complicate or simplify the city's ongoing 
trade and commerce. 

A Night Out In the City 

T he most immediate and commonplace change to Waterdeep occurs with the com 
ing of night, regardless of the season. Waterdhavians generally work hard, make 
large amounts of money as a result, and play hard, too. By night, taverns do a steady 
(though muted by regular watch patrols) trade, and the festhalls and nightclubs - there 
are many in the docks area, and a few in all of the other city wards -are wild, crowded 
places, to say nothing of the private parties in homes, the villas of the nobles, and 
guildhalls. 

Waterdeep is lamplit by night (by the Guild of Chandlers & Lamplighters): Castle 
Ward and Trades Ward very brightly. Sea Ward and North Ward less so; and the other 
wards less and less so. The City of the Dead is lit only by the torches at the foot of 
Ahghairon's Statue. 

The City of the Dead is an active place by night, although it is very heavily patroled 
by the watch. Hard currency girls and their clients, and those wishing to transact pri 
vate (usually shady) business deals undetected, make use of its dark expanses. In gen 
eral, the docks area has the noisiest taverns, and Waterdhavians wishing to have a wild 
time will go there. Except along the High Road itself, noisy businesses in North or Sea 
Wards are effectively prohibited by the watch, and they frown upon nighttime activity 
in Trades Ward north or east of The High Road, and in Southern Ward north of Cara 
van Court. Rowdy, homebound Waterdhavians or visitors may receive a watch escort. 
Rowdies with no apparent home to return to, or too drunk to find it, will be taken to a 
cell until sober, and then released without charge (unless, of course, they indulge in 
vandalism or get into serious fights along the way). 

There is no "weekend," as there are no city-wide "holy days" away from work as we 
know them; however, there are festivals and special holidays throughout the year (see 
below), but Waterdhavians usually party at least once every three nights unless they are 
very busy with their work (e.g. anyone involved in shipping goods just before winter or 
just after the big spring thaws) or are courting. 




25 


























W&Terz&eep )w 
W) bJTen 

T he importance of Waterdeep as a center of trade, and 
the ready market its wealthy population provides to 
merchants, keeps the City of Splendors busy for most of 
each year. The North has fierce winters, however, and 
overland trade is virtually cut off from the Inner Sea lands, 
while travel within the North itself is limited to a few 
brave (or foolhardy) adventurers, who do not as a rule 
travel heavily laden with trade goods. Guard patrols note 
how passable the roads are, but few organized bands of peo 
ple arrive at or leave the city until the spring thaws are 
past, although a few daring " mud runners" bring wide, flat, 
trade sledges through the mud of each thaw to gain pre 
mium prices from the bored city populace for their wares. 
Even the shipping of the Sword Coast is imperiled by ice 
and by raw winter gales, although the harbor of the City of 
Splendors does remain open year-round. 

Beasts of prey come down out of the wilderlands to the 
fields outside the city walls, hoping to catch some human 
sized meals. Guards at each city gate are doubled in number 
because of such menaces, and equipped with long pikes; guard 
patrols are mounted to keep track of what monsters are in the 
city's vicinity. The Dungsweepers' Guild is escorted with a 
heavy contingent of guards to protect it from monstrous 
attacks during winter. If monstrous incursions are particularly 
high or frequent, the Lords hire mercenary bands and adven 
turers to go on monster hunts beyond the city; while a serious 
business, many young nobles simply join the hunts looking 
for excitement. A few selective kills reduce the worst and 
most dangerous monsters, as well as provide easier prey or 
ready food for other predators. In all, these hunts distract 
many of the wandering monsters away from the city. 

Waterdeep winters offer a very different setting for life 
and adventure than the other seasons. The population is 
limited to those within the walls when winter closes in, 
and few creatures arrive or leave. Everyone in Waterdeep 
over a winter has plenty of time -time to plan next year's 
business affairs, or scheme about how to arrange this or 
that; in short, intrigue runs rampant. It is damp and cold, 
and snows a lot; tempers worsen as the weeks pass, and 
adventurers are warned that trouble is far easier to find 
when noble, merchant, beggar, and watchman alike are 
bored and irritated. Winter in Waterdeep comes a week or 
so after The Feast of the Moon, isolates the city two or 


three weeks after that, and then deep winter lasts two 
months before the first thaws begin the slow warming 
process. Even the Market tends to close down during the 
height of winter, save for two hours around highsun. 

Thieves should note that many of the richer merchants and 
nobles empty and shut up their villas or houses and vacate the 
city for somewhere warmer (such as the southern climes of 
Tharsult, Tashalar, Narubel, or even as far as the country of 
Calimshan) to spend the winter. Of course, some villas are 
occupied by the watch and the guard during winter to prevent 
wholesale looting and damage in the northern wards of 
Waterdeep. While the rest of the city's streets are kept pass 
able by traffic and the diligent sledges of the Loyal Order of 
Street Laborers, many of the streets (aside from the High Road 
and the major roads) within North and Sea Wards are left icy 
and snowbound, making it hard to move through and next to 
impossible to enter without being tracked. 

WaTeRdbav)AN) 

H oDbx^s 

H olidays in Waterdeep are random, eclectic happen 
stances for the most part, though it is rare that two ten- 
days pass by without some local festival in one of the smaller 
neighborhoods somewhere in the city. All holidays described 
in the Calendar of Harptos (see the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(r) Campaign Set) are celebrated by the citizens of 
Waterdeep, as well as some few local customary holidays. 
Holiday festivals usually involve some potluck banquets for 
huge numbers of people, dancing and music, and some enter 
tainments for the crowds. In the past few decades, a number 
of the festhalls and inns of the city have sponsored their own 
holidays on local neighborhood levels, providing entertain 
ments and specials designed to draw more people through 
their doors and make more money. For neighborhoods to 
hold a local festival (that involves blocking off the streets and 
disrupting traffic), all the information must be presented to 
the watch and the Palace, and a 25 gp fee paid to provide for 
adequate additional watch coverage during the festival times. 
The holidays below are some of the more popular and well- 
recognized holidays and festivals celebrated in the city. 

AbgbateoKj's Day 

Ahghairon's Day commemorates the life of Ahghairon, the 
first Open Lord, and is celebrated on the day after Midsum 
mer's Night (the first day of Eleasias) in honor of the Old 


26 


Mage's birth date. Citizens often leave violets (Ahghairon's 
favorite flower) at the base of his old tower, the Plinth, or on 
the altars in the House of Wonder, Mystra's temple where he 
worshiped. While not a practice before Lhestyn's lifetime, 
Lhestyn's tradition of visiting taverns and inns throughout 
the city to wish the people well is continued by Piergeiron, 
the current Open Lord and most visible agent of Ahgha 
iron's rule. While not a holiday that affects the city's opera 
tion (aside from closing the Lord's Court), it is honored in 
small ways, with many toasts to the Lords of the city in tav 
ern talk, and bards performing some of the locally written 
songs in honor of the much-loved Old Mage. 

A unSVs BLessTi&e 

Similar to the Fair Seas Festival below, this holiday is cele 
brated more as a case of prevention rather than true celebra 
tion, designed to protect Waterdeep from the ill will of Auril 
the Frostmaiden, goddess of winter. On no set day, Auril's 
Blesstide is proclaimed upon the dawn of the first frost, a 
squad of griffon-riders flying low over the city blowing dis 
tinctive horns that proclaim it Auril's Day; on this day, every 
one in the city wears primarily white clothes and no one eats 
or serves hot meals, in deference to the goddess of cold. In 
the past century, a disrespectful lark by some unclothed and 
besotted young nobles has become a traditional part of the 
Auril's Day ceremonies; a parade of white-cloaked men and 
women literally runs from the Cliffwatch in North Ward 
across the city, through the West Gate and out onto the west 
ern beaches. From there, the participants (mostly young 
nobles or merchants) leap into the icy waters of the Sea of 
Swords clad only in light white tunics (if clad at all) in order 
to "gain the respect of Auril and sacrifice our warmth to stay 
the worst of her icy wrath in the coming winter." 

Faiiz Seas FesDvaL 

This festival spans two days in late Ches, and closes the 
annual Fleetswake festivities (see below). The first day 
involves much feasting in all corners of the city, but the 
menus are limited primarily to seafood; in lower Castle Ward, 
a number of temporary structures are built over the waters off 
Smugglers' Dock, allowing a number of individuals (notably 
Mirt and Piergeiron and city guard officers) and nobles 
involved in the sea trades to host a feast shared with the mer 
men and sea elves of Waterdeep's harbor. The docks and 
Deepwater Isle are heavily staffed by clergy from all the tem 
ples of the city -as well as the heads and members of sea- 
related guilds-throughout the second day, everyone spending 
the time in prayer and feasting. At both dawn and sunset, the 





waters of Waterdeep's harbor are covered with floating flowers 
in homage to Umberlee, the chaotic ocean goddess. 

During the course of the festival's two days, parties of city 
guardsmen and chosen members of the Guild of Watermen 
and the Master Mariners' Guild tour the city, taking dona 
tions from tavern patrons for Umberlee's Cache (there are 
also collection boxes at the two guildhalls), a sacrifice of 
coins from the citizens of the city to Umberlee in thanks for 
safe ports and safe passage in the coming year. Upon sunset 
of the second day, the money is placed in chests and dumped 
into the deepest part of the harbor. This festival has existed 
in a number of forms since the first trade-meets occurred 
here, and over 2,500,000 gold pieces have been dumped into 
the harbor and remain relatively inviolate; the area is closely 
guarded by the undersea guardsmen, whose standing orders 
are to kill anyone disturbing Umberlee's Cache. There are 
also rumors of magical protections on the chests which keep 
them safe. Legends tell of thieves that stole some of the col 
lection years ago and left the city; as soon as their ship left 
the harbor, a squall sprang up and a huge wave shaped like a 
hand swept over the ship, taking the thieves overboard and 
sparing the ship and the rest of the crew. 

FLeeTscuake 

Spanning the last tenday in Ches, Fleetswake is a mariners' 
festival celebrating the sea, the sea trades that are their liveli 
hood, and the gods of the sea. While much of the religious 
seriousness and ceremony is placed on the Fair Seas Festival 
(see above), many of the Fleetswake events and activities are 
dedicated in small ways to nearly every sea god or goddess of 
the Realms. The bulk of the festival activity occurs in Dock 
Ward, though the Fiery Flagon in Sea Ward is a hotbed of 
action during this holiday as well. Among the many events of 
the Fleetswake festival are boat races (both private boats and 
the rakers of the city naval guard), the annual Shipwrights' 
Ball at the Shipwrights' Fiouse, guild-sponsored galas at the 
Copper Cup festhall, and many more. Any ships entering the 
harbor during Fleetswake are not charged the standard dock 
ing fees for their stay but the ships' captains are expected to 
donate at least 1 gold piece per day to Umberlee's Cache 
before they leave Waterdeep's harbor. 

fouhJ&erzs' Day 

Not really a practiced holiday. Founders' Day is noted on city 
calendars as the first day of Flamerule and commemorates the 
Free City of Waterdeep's founding. The Field of Triumph is 
the site of illusory shows of the history of the city as well as 


martial exhibitions by the guard and other noted warriors of 
the city. Many festhalls sponsor Founders' Day costume con 
tests with prizes going to the best costumes of historical per 
sonages (from Warlord Raurlor to Khelben the Elder and 
others). Major illusions used to be established throughout 
Waterdeep, including making Castle Waterdeep look like the 
old log structure of Nimoar's Hold, but these were decried as 
too disruptive to traffic and commerce and have not been 
part of the Founders' Day celebrations for decades. 

Gods* Day 

This new holiday in Marpenoth observes the anniversary of 
the end of the Godswar, when the gods of the Realms 
returned to the heavens. During the day, shop owners and 
merchants proudly display their gods' symbols in the windows 
or on themselves; any customers who worship the same gods 
get reduced prices on goods and services, with the difference 
becoming a donation to the gods' temples (or to the city for 
upkeep of the Plinth). Traffic in the City of the Dead is 
extremely heavy during this holiday, as many mourners collect 
to remember their comrades and relatives who fell on this day 
only nine years ago. As well, a Gods' Day tradition in Water- 
deep strictly limits the use of magic in remembrance of the 
wild magics of the Time of Troubles; while not outlawed fully, 
spellcasting is allowable only in self-defense or in extreme 
need (such need to be determined by the Lord's Court). 

At night, this holiday becomes quite solemn and serious 
as many Waterdhavians spend time in prayer at their tem 
ples, both in thanks for the lives they have under their gods 
and in remembrance of the destruction and terror, the 
Godsfall caused Faerun that they don't wish to repeat. The 
guard also sets up an immense bonfire at the peak of Mount 
Waterdeep, honoring the fallen and the risen gods Myrkul, 
Cyric, Mystra, Helm, and Ao who appeared here. 

Within the last few years after the establishment of the 
Gods' Day celebrations, people began decorating the inner 
walls of the city with garlands and giving gifts to guards 
men and watchmen. Now a standard practice, in thanks for 
their defense during Myrkul's invasion and the resulting 
Wardfires of Southern, Dock, and Castle Wards, God's Day 
is also the semi-official "Be Kind to the Guard & Watch 
Day" in Waterdeep. 

TrzollTide 

Begun as a feasting day to celebrate the ending of the 
decade-long Second Trollwar, Trolltide is now a lesser holi 
day to the city at the start of Kythorn. Where once every- 







one was relieved of responsibilities beyond celebrating the 
freedom and survival of the city, now this holiday is almost 
exclusively for children. In recognition of how close the 
enemy came to the city, children now run through the 
streets in packs from highsun till dusk, pounding on the 
doors of shops and homes, growling and snarling like trolls; 
the occupants are expected to give the children candies, 
fruits, or other small items "to keep the trolls away from my 
door," and those who do not are generally subject to pranks 
upon sundown. 

WaukeeM'Dde 

While the continued existence of Waukeen is still being 
debated by philosophers and clerics across the Realms, this 
centuries-old tenday festival in early Tarsakh maintains its 
old title by force of habit. Originally a simple day-long cel 
ebration of the free trade and open commerce of the city, it 
has encompassed a number of older holidays under one title 
and stretched the holiday season over ten days. Among its 
rituals are: 

• Caravance: a gift-giving holiday commemorating the 
traditional arrival of the first caravans of the season into 
the city, and many parents still hide gifts in their homes, 
telling their children that Old Carvas left them (Old 
Carvas is the mythical old peddler who arrived with the 
first caravan into Waterdeep, his wagon loaded down 
with toys for all the children in Waterdeep); 

• Goldenight: a simple festival night celebrating 
money and gold (many hard currency girls and not a 
few young noblewomen cover themselves in gold 
dust and little else on Goldenight), with many busi 
nesses operating all night, offering midnight sales 
and other promotions; 

• Guildsmeet: special guild member holiday gatherings of 
the guild memberships for celebrations typically culmi 
nating in a multiguild sponsored gala festival and dance 
that lasts from dusk till dawn and dominates the Market, 
the Cynosure, the Field of Triumph, and all areas in 
between; 

• Leiruin: Waukeen caught Leira, the former goddess of 
deception, attempting to cheat her in a deal, and buried 
her under a mountain of molten gold as punishment for 
cheating an honest merchant; as a commemoration of 
this, Leiruin is the day for guild members to pay their 
annual dues to the guilds, for the guildmasters to all 
meet with the Lord's Court and renew the guild charters 
for another year, and for the Lords to bring to light any 


wrongdoing done in commerce; those charged with 
theft, robbery, or other commercial crimes on this day 
are pilloried in front of the Palace and guild members 
throw coppers at them as part of their punishment (the 
money goes to the city). 

Temple Festivals 

Aside from the major city-wide holidays mentioned above, 
many of the temples of the city (the major established tem 
ples and the minor, unheralded temples as well) promote 
and coordinate smaller scale holidays and local neighbor 
hood carnivals in celebration of their gods. Celebrations, 
parades, and festivals are increasing among the worshipers 
and temples of Tyr, Helm, and Tymora; the gods of knowl 
edge-Oghma, Deneir, and Milil -now earn greater atten 
tion and larger galas, with the construction of the Font of 
Knowledge and the bards' college of New damn. Among 
the grander, more established holidays are: 

• Day of Wonders, a festival for Gond anticipated each 
year around Higharvestide for the imaginative inven 
tions of the Gondsmen that are revealed on this day 
(many still talk of the parade in 1359 DR, when the 
mechanical soldiers marching down the High Road all 
fell over when the artificial dragon crashed on them 
from behind, or the nautical exhibition of 1363 DR, 
when a mechanical dragon turtle swam once around the 
harbor and promptly sank, becoming part of Umberlee's 
Cache); 

• Lliira's Night, a night-long festival honoring the Lady of 
Joy by innumerable dances and balls throughout the city 
(the Cynosure Ball is sponsored jointly by the Lords, the 
local clergy of Lliira, and various noble families, while 
many festhalls turn their entire operations over to wild, 
carefree dancing and any other pursuits under the Lady's 
purview . . . ); 

• Rhyestertide, a day-long celebration of the life of 
Rhyester, the first prophet of Lathander, the Morn- 
inglord and god of the dawn (all celebrants wear bright 
red robes but keep one eye covered till next dawn in 
honor to Rhyester's blindness that was cured by Lath 
ander's touch at dawn); and 

• Selune's Hallowing, celebrating the moon, stars, and 
navigation (the major ceremony of this is a parade of 
worshipers leaving the House of the Moon at moonrise 
and moving down to the harbor, with the high priestess 
carrying the Wand of the Four Moons before her) in addi 
tion to the festivals during the Feast of the Moon. 




Chxpten Jhn.ee: 
Advertttazlrtc ) n > 


WFM fS TOSS r 


oril is filled with marvels from the far shores of Kara-Tur to the lofty 
peaks of the Spine of the World, but there are few places to compare 
with the excitement, intrigue, and sheer variety of wonders and dangers 
that abound within the walls of the City of Splendors. This chapter 
provides players and Dungeon Masters alike with options on creating 
player characters and nonplayer characters especially for use within Waterdeep. 

Becoming Art AdvertTurzeK. 

W hat drives a person to a life on the road, seeking danger at every turn? Be it a 
quest for knowledge and power, a calling from the gods, the thrill of the hunt, or 
greed and curiosity, a certain restlessness sets your characters apart from common folk. 
Any character you make for the game has the potential to be the greatest hero (or 
vilest villain) the Realms has ever seen, rather than being just the child of a farmer 
within the Dalelands. Create your characters using the standard AD&D(r) 2nd Edition 
rules, along with any supplement material your game group allows (such as the PHBR 
supplements for the character classes). Now, create a background for your character 
using the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) Campaign Setting, placing your character within 
the history and context of the world of Toril. Once you're done, you're ready for adven 
ture in the Realms ... or are you? 

While most fledgling adventurers set out into the wilderness to conquer ancient 
dungeons and attack bands of thieving humanoids, many adventurers find all the dan 
gers they need within Waterdeep's environs with much less difficulty but no less reward. 
Waterdeep's adventurous natives are a special breed; while the differences between 
adventurers are slim, aside from some new and special skills, there are a number of 
optional character kits and adaptations to established kits and classes that can give your 
Waterdeep characters and campaign a special excitement and feel. 

WaTeKShavlato ChanacTens 

While contemplating your characters, decide what you would like to play the most. If 
you really like the idea of rangers, druids, barbarians, and other characters at home in 
the woods and wilderness, play those characters but keep in mind that such characters 
cannot be natives of a metropolis such as Waterdeep. This is the only limitation placed 
on characters created as natives of the City of Splendors. Now that we've covered the 
only "can't," let's look at the people you can create for a campaign. The first kit below 
is the standard by which all native characters of Waterdeep are measured, and the addi 
tional kits simply add more specifics to a character's background and specialize his or 
her skills. 






















AdveioTuRej^ 

WaTeRdbavUw Native 

Description: As its name describes, this is a general kit for 
all character classes. All it denotes is the character's citi 
zenship in Waterdeep and Waterdeep's use as the primary 
base and locale for adventuring. 

Role: Within city society, adventurers are wild cards for 
many reasons. While many are little more than mercenaries, 
some are closely affiliated with a temple or a powerful noble 
family within the city (or the Lords themselves) and are thus 
accorded a bit more respect. Many adventurers are well loved 
by tavern and inn owners the city over for their exciting tales 
and, of course, their hard-won gold and treasure. 

Weapon Proficiencies: As per character class. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Player's Choice. 

Equipment: As befits character; initial listings are items 
on hand at all times, with other items kept in storage (in 
rented rooms or other places). 

Special Benefits: In addition to standard nonweapon pro 
ficiencies, all Waterdhavians add Waterdeep Lore I to their 
repertoire (see below for details). 

Special Hindrances: No wilderness-based character classes 
can be natives of Waterdeep (no rangers, barbarians, or 
druids), though they could be from outlying villages and 
settlements (a logging town by the Ardeep Forest?). 

Races: All PC races. 

A&veKiTuizeiz, 

WaTeRdbavUM Noble 

Description: These characters are the younger children of a 
noble family, the third or later sons and daughters who will not 
inherit lands or titles from their noble parentage. Their wander 
lust and need to find a place has led them to adventuring life. 

Role: The role of these lesser nobles in Waterdeep is to 
prove themselves to their families and to magnify their own 
fame. Should they or their comrades commit errors or faux 
pas, the noble adventurer often has to explain the situation 
to an embarrassed noble patriarch or matriarch. 

Weapon Proficiencies: As above; however, all young male 
nobles are taught at least the basics in long sword or broad 
sword use (choose one appropriate for the character). 
Characters who cannot use a sword with their current class 
are considered unskilled in the use of that weapon, favoring 
their current weapons, but incur only a -2 attack penalty 
with swords due to past training. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: As above; nobles must learn Riding, 
Land-based (horse). Optional (but highly expected) skills to 


choose from are: Dancing, Etiquette, Fashion (see below). Her 
aldry, Reading/Writing, and Waterdeep Commerce I (see below). 

Equipment: As above; however, the noble must have no 
less than the best available equipment to maintain appear 
ances (Player's Handbook price +25%)! 

Special Benefits: Of great benefit to adventurers is the 
immediate additional money that nobility can have; add 
ld20 x 10 gp to the character's total. Noble characters can 
roll this additional funding no more than once every two 
months, adding ld20 gp if their actions have succeeded 
and subtracting 2d20 gp if they have met with failure and 
disgraced the noble family's name. In addition, nobles are 
readily recognized within Waterdeep, for good or ill; while 
well known to innkeepers, barkeeps, and merchants, they 
are also as well known to the criminal element. Success 
fully obtaining any benefits "the noble deserves" must be 
role-played, rather than assuming room will be made for 
nobles and their friends at any tavern or inn. 

Special Hindrances: Noble characters are well known and 
easily recognized by many natives of the city. If attempting 
to hide or disguise themselves, noble characters incur a 
20% penalty for hiding or a -2 penalty on Disguise rolls. 

Races: Human, half-elf. 

OTy GuARdsmAN, STam^a rid 

Limitations: City guards, no matter what rank or type of 
duty, are all warriors (fighters, paladins). They must all 
have minimum scores of 12 in Strength and Constitution. 

Description: A Waterdhavian guard is a soldier of the 
army of Waterdeep, dedicating his or her service to defend 
ing the Lords and the people and property of the City of 
Splendors. People can join the guard after thorough physi 
cal and mental examinations, and they initially enlist for 
two years. After that, they can choose to resign their com 
mission or stay for an additional two-year period. 

Role: The guard stands ready at all times to supplement 
the watch in all matters, helping to keep order within the 
city. They man the walls and watchtowers, the catapults, 
the jails, and the gates of the city. A guard officership is 
considered a worthy position for many young lesser nobles. 

Weapon Proficiencies: The following are minimum 
weapon proficiencies, but are not exclusive; they reflect the 
standard guard weapons: Rod, short bow, short sword. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: The following are suggested 
skills for guard members to learn; they are not mandatory 
for the rank-and-file: Riding, Land-based (horse), Swimming, 
Waterdeep Lore I (whether native or outsider; see below). 


Equipment: Rod, scale mail, short bow, short sword; any 
additional nonstandard equipment is up to the player. 
Guard uniforms are silver scale mail covered by a black 
tabard and cloak with gold trim and the gold seal of Water- 
deep on their chests (and shields if on wall duty). 

Special Benefits & Hindrances: For general benefits and 
drawbacks of all guardsmen (officers and special troops 
included), see the Limited Campaigns section below. 

Races: Any; in times of trouble. Lord Piergeiron will 
allow the addition of mercenaries to the guard, sometimes 
supplementing the troops with humanoids, lizard men, and 
a rare giant or two. 

Cftv GuAK.<3smAN), Aiiz Conps 

Limitations: As standard guardsman. 

Description: As standard guardsman, though these sol 
diers are the elite forces that ride the griffons and provide 
aerial defense for the city. 

Weapon Proficiencies: As above, though a horseman's flail 
or mace or a spear are mandatory weapons needed to fight 
on griffonback. 

Nomveapon Proficiencies: The only additional skill for 
these guardsmen is Riding, Airborne. This compulsory skill 
is limited specifically to griffons, though riders can train on 
other flying animals later. 

Equipment: As above, including all proficient weapons. 

Races: Humans, elves, half-elves; all other races are too 
small or too big to be effective griffon-riders. 

Cffy Guards maw. Naval Brigade 

Limitations: As standard guardsman. 

Description: As standard guardsman, but these guards 
who man the harbor towers are a bit less orderly and more 
rowdy than their inner city counterparts (though they are 
no less honest or law-abiding). The "mariners" keep watch 
on the harbor's islands and towers, man and maintain the 
raker fleet, and coordinate antismuggling patrols with the 
mermen forces in the harbor. Their main barracks and 
command center are on Deepwater Isle in the Inner Fort. 

Weapon Proficiencies: As above standards; mariners can 
also be adept at using crossbows (both standard and the 
heavy ship variety), harpoons, nets, and tridents. 

Nomveapon Proficiencies: Guardsmen of the naval brigade 
are required to learn the following skills during their first 
tour of duty (Swimming is mandatory for entry): Fishing, 
Navigation, Rope Use, Seamanship, Swimming. 

Equipment: As above, including all proficient weapons. 

Races: Any (including mermen and mermaids in the harbor). 











Crtv GuATidsmAhJ, 

Officeiz (AKiy XRoop Type) 

Limitation: Officers need Intelligence scores of 12 or bet 
ter. These skills are prerequisites for officers' ranks: Her 
aldry, Read/Write, and Riding, Land-based (horse). 

Description: Guard officers tend to be veterans from the 
ranks or are young nobles with political commissions. The 
two types of officers work well together and form a superb 
command structure for the guard (aside from the veterans' 
good-natured needling of young noble lieutenants). 

Weapon Proficiencies: Long bow, long sword, rod, and 
spear or one type of polearm. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Upon gaining the rank of an 
officer, characters can learn the following skills: Waterdeep 
Lore I (for non-native officers), Waterdeep Lore II, and 
Waterdeep Lore III. 

Equipment: As above, including all proficient weapons. 

OTy Watchman STAKidAKd 

Limitations: Strength or Constitution scores must be 12 
or greater to be allowed into the watch. 

Description: The watch is the police force of the city, pro 
tecting it from within just as the guard protects it from the 
outside. One can tell how long watchmen have been on the 
force by how adept they are at using their rods to disarm or 
knock out troublemakers. The watch accepts members from 
many walks of life, and people can sign up for anywhere from 
one month to a lifetime career in the watch; regardless of the 
time put in, many feel an association with the watch for 
years afterward. Mercenaries often join the watch for short 
stints when they need money or need to avoid trouble; once 
they finish their term, they rarely cause trouble for the watch 
again due to the underlying understanding that "Once a 
watchman, always a watchman." 

Role: The watch is the first and most noticeable sign of law 
and order in Waterdeep and their presence is quite visible, their 
daily and nightly patrols making sure all is well in every tap- 
room and business throughout the city. They can use lethal 
force against opponents, but Captain Rulathon and Helve 
Urtrace prefer their troops subdue criminals and bring them to 
justice. The watch also provides services such as finding lost 
children, providing directions, or helping fix an overturned cart. 

Weapon Proficiencies: The following are minimum, 
nonexclusive weapon proficiencies and show the standard 
weapons of the watch: Dagger, rod, short sword. 


Nonweapon Proficiencies: Within one month of joining 
the watch, characters will learn Waterdeep Lore I (if not 
already known). No specific skills are mandatory to be a 
regular watch member, though skills that will serve you 
greatly in the watch are: Blind Fighting, Direction Sense, 
Gaming, Jumping, Reading Lips, Running, and Tumbling. 

Equipment: Chain and leather armor, dagger, rod, short 
sword; any additional nonstandard equipment is up to the 
player. Watch colors are presented by black leather over 
gold chain mail with green tabards and cloaks. The seal of 
the Lords of Waterdeep is either embroidered over the left 
breast of the tabard or worn as a metal cloak-clasp (still 
worn off center over the left breast and heart). 

Special Benefits & Hindrances: See the section on Limited 
Campaigns for common watch member benefits and problems. 

Special Benefits (Rogues): Thieves who wish to join the 
watch receive special training to allow them to operate as 
spies. Referred to as "skulkers," they track and follow peo 
ple quietly in the tangled backstreets, primarily in Dock 
Ward. These characters lose -10% off their pick pockets 
and find/remove traps rolls and -5% off their open locks 
checks; in return, they gain +10% to move silently rolls 
and +5% to hide in shadows, detect noise, and climb walls 
attempts. They also gain Waterdeep Lore III. 

Races: Any. 

Cftv WaTcbmAM, 

"WaTcb-cu)zAK<3" 

Limitations: While the physical restriction is waived for 
watch-wizards (see standard watch member Limitations), 
they must have a minimum Intelligence score of 14. 

Description: A new official addition to the watch ranks, 
the watch-wizards are guild members of the Watchful 
Order of Magists & Protectors. As spellcasters, they allow 
the watch to more easily handle out-of-control situations 
involving magic and its unscrupulous uses in the city. 

Role: Watch-wizards are, simply put, the enforcers and 
powerhouses of a watch patrol. After a troublesome few 
years following the Godswar, Piergeiron, Rulathon, and 
Mhair Szeltune established wizards among the watch rank- 
and-file. In the six years hence, the watch-wizards have 
proven highly effective in ending situations quickly and 
arrest records have gone up more than 50%! 

Weapon Proficiencies: As normal wizard. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: The first skill learned is Water- 
deep Lore II; Spellcraft may be a prerequisite for admittance 
into the watch-wizard corps (DM's choice). 



Equipment: As normal wizard; clothes and robes reflect 
the watch colors of black, gold, and green. 

Special Benefits: Watch-wizards earn higher pay than 
standard watchmen and can, through level increases, gain 
access to spells created for the watch (see Campaign Guide 
to the City , Chapter Eight). They are also licensed to wield 
city-owned wands, such as (but not exclusively) wands of 
magic missiles and wands of paralyzation. 

Special Hindrances: Mages can only stay in the watch- 
wizard corps until they reach 12th level; upon reaching 
that level, they either retire to civilian life or they are 
invited by Lord Piergeiron to graduate to a position among 
the members of Force Grey. 

Races: As normal wizard. 

OTy WaTcbmAKJ, Offlcerz 

Limitations: Prerequisites for officers' positions are Her 
aldry, Read/Write, and Waterdeep Lore II. Only warriors can 
advance beyond armar rank due to old codes on the books, 
much to the chagrin of many watch-wizards. 

Description: Captain Rulathon's and Piergeiron's orders 
come through the ranks of many watch officers. Each patrol 
has a minor officer (the armar) and its commander (the 
civilar); they both answer to the commander at their 
guardpost (senior civilar). Senior civilars report to the cap 
tains in their ward, the ward civilars. The seven ward civi 
lars report directly to Deker Windsfire, the half-elven grand 
civilar who is equal in authority to Helve Urtrace. 

Role: Watch officers are responsible for sounding alarms, 
filing reports, and testifying at the Lord's Court if necessary 
to try the arrested citizens. While most are honest and 
trustworthy, a few use their positions for personal gain (a 
tactic not always noticed by superiors). 

Weapon Proficiencies: As standard watchman. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Once in place as an officer, a 
PC takes a month to learn Waterdeep Lore III if unknown. 
Etiquette becomes a later prerequisite for higher ranking 
positions, with mandatory noble galas and the like. 

Equipment: As above. 

Special Benefits & Hindrances: Officers have a higher pay 
scale than their underlings. If necessary and as the situation 
warrants (the DM may ask you to roleplay the request to 
your superiors), officers can gain access to scrolls or wands 
for special situations. Unless they are under orders by the 
Lords themselves, watch officers can open any building in 
the city in the course of an investigation. 

Races: Any. 







BAdkgizouK)& 

Everyone has a past, and only space and time limit us from 
telling all about it. Well, your PCs (and NPCs) still only 
exist as a bunch of numbers, skills, and vague connections. 
It's up to you to bring your characters to life! 

Players must decide how best to fit their PCs into Water- 
deep. The next two chapters of this book detail over a 
dozen specific places and 40 NPCs that can be used for an 
immediate campaign setting. While players finish their 
characters, the DM must prepare the connections and fam 
ily of any noble PCs -the DM has to carefully determine 
the power and influence of the PC's noble family. 

Necu Pn.of)c)e*ic)e$ 

Many of these skills are above in the character kits. Except 
for one, these skills are open for everyone's use. Skills that 
are numbered and ranked are not linearly linked; if a player 
wants her character to have I and III, she can. These skills 
confirm what the character knows, and do not replace role- 
playing between characters with dice rolls. These skills all 
conform to proficiency rules in Chapter 5 of the Player's 
Handbook. 

FasbtoM 

Slots: 1, Wisdom (+1) 

The character knows what particular modes of dress are "in 
fashion" at any given season among commoners and nobil 
ity alike, and the character is always conscious of changing 
patterns. However, this skill is applicable only for places 
characters know; if new to a place, they need 2d20 days to 
determine the fashions of their current location. 

WaXeRdeep CommeRce I 

Slots: 1, Wisdom (-1) 

Characters with this skill know how business works in 
Waterdeep and can predict when certain commercial activ 
ities will take place (i.e. when the Market is at its fullest, 
when and where some smaller street markets open, etc.). 
While the skill doesn't allow for any special contacts, the 
character knows: 

• the guilds and their duties (and guild contacts); 

• the location of major shops and their wares; and 

• where to find particular nonmagical goods for sale. 


WtXen&eep CommeMce II 

Slots: 2, Wisdom (-2) 

This skill is a character's limited knowledge of smuggling, 
black market goods, and the illegal trade of stolen goods. 
This skill gives the character one lesser contact dealing in a 
particular type of illegal goods or a contact with one of the 
known fences of Waterdeep (see Chapter Two in Who's 
Who in Waterdeep). This does not give the PC free reign 
with the criminal element, nor does it expose every secret 
of the character's contact. This sets the stage for role-play 
ing between character and criminal contact. 

WaXeRdeep Lone I 

Slots: 1, Intelligence (+1) 

This general knowledge skill grants the character general 
knowledge and memory of the City of Splendors. Without 
rolling, characters know the names of streets and general 
landmarks, and a roll allows characters to reference this 
entire book for information like the name of a certain inn 
or its proprietor or where to get translations done. 

WdXen&eep LoRe II 

Slots: 2, Intelligence (-1) 

This specialized skill is not for the general populace of 
Waterdeep; officers of the watch and the guard are typical 
users of this skill (PCs can learn the skill without these 
affiliations after three months of dedicated study of the 
city). It allows characters a basic working knowledge of the 
city's history, its defenses, and its sewer systems (all detailed 
in the Campaign Guide to the City). This also gives basic 
knowledge and history about Waterdeep's dark side: Under 
mountain and the Dungeon of the Crypt. 

WaXeRdeep Lone III 

Slots: 2, Charisma (-1) 

Primarily a rumormonger's talent, this skill allows characters to 
remember rumors and tavern talk or to get it from other char 
acters. It is best used as an information gatherer and role-play 
ing trigger and as a DM's mnemonic when players forget clues. 

WdfXenheep Lone IV 

Slots: 2, Intelligence (-2) 

Other secrets of the city are entailed here. This skill repre 
sents knowledge and secrets that only the Lords know (see 
Chapter Four of the Campaign Guide to the City). This is not 
available to PCs or NPCs unless they become Lords or are 
direct agents of said Lords. 



35 



OuTfFTDwg Your 

WaTeRdbav)AK" 

CbaRacTeR 


House of Pride Perfumes D33 

Balthorr's Rare Treasures C14 

The Old Monster Shop S8 

Serpentil Books & Folios DIO 

Melgard's Fine Leathers D48 


N ow that all of your characters are all developed in terms 
of personality, class, and motive, they need to get their 
gear! Below are a number of specific places where characters 
can go to get all those items they need from plate armor to 
rare spell components. They are organized from highest to 
lowest in terms of how expensive their products and services 
are, but that is not necessarily an indication of their quality. 

Arzmorz & WeapowRy Shops 


The Riven Shield Shop T4 

Saem's Fine Swords T 7 

Brian the Swordmasteds S 7 

Riautar's Weaponry T18 

Whistling Blades D5 

Halls of Hilmer C23 

EqufpmobSt Shops 

Nestaur the Ropemaker D40 

Essimuth's Equipment AQ1 

Piatran's Clothiers AQ5 

Golden Key Locksmiths C26 

Ragathan Furriers N44 

Velstrode the Venturer C28 

Halambar Lutes & Harps C25 

Surtlan's Metalwares T40 

Diloontier's Apothecary C13 

Phalantar's Philtres C33 

Thentavva's Boots T12 

Orsabbas's Fine Imports T17 

The Old Xoblob Shop Next to D25 

Meraedos Fine Furs N48 

Sulmest's Shoes & Boots N49 


PLaces of 

AdveNff uk&k ItoTerzesT 

W ell, you're ready to take on anything now that you 
have your first sword at your side, right? Wrong! Now 
you need to uncover the adventures within the city! The 
places below are likely spots to find adventures in the form of 
a skulking shadow, a whispered clue from an aged beggar, or a 
simple tavern brawl. These places are alphabetically orga 
nized in order by their business or use in a campaign. 

FesTballs, Imms, & TaveRws 


The Blushing Mermaid (F) D36 

The Copper Cup (F) D54 

The Gentle Mermaid (F) N27 

Golden Horn Gambling (F) T28 

The Hanging Lantern (F) D22 

House of Purple Silks (F) $54 

The Jade Dancer (F) SI 5 

The Mermaid's Arms (F) D26 

Mother Tathlorn's House (F) C43 

The Purple Palace (F) D25 

Silavene's (F) C3 

The Smiling Siren (F) CIO 

Three Pearls Nightclub (F) D18 

The Blackstar Inn (I) D9 

Dacer's Inn (I) $39 

The Galloping Minotaur (I) N47 

The Gentle Rest (I) T32 

The Golden Harp (I) $4 

Gondalim's (I) T 8 

The Grey Serpent (I) T43 

Inn of the Dripping Dagger T3 

The Jade Jug (I) C38 

Maelstrom's Notch (I) T13 

Maerghoun's Inn (I) $45 

The Pampered Traveler (I) Cll 

The Pilgrim's Rest (I) $42 

The Raging Lion (I) N21 

The Rearing Hippocampus (I) D7 


MteceLLaweo us Shops 


Aurora's Realms Shop 

Pelauvir's Counter 
Waukeen's Wares 
Telethar Leatherworks 
Gelfuril the Trader 
Downybeard Tobacconist 
Selchoun's Sundries 


D24; S21; T16; 

C37; N50; $18 
S23 
AQ13 
D50 
D55 
N60 
$3 


36 


Safehaven Inn (I) AQ14 

Shipmaster's Hall (I) D42 

The Ship's Prow (I) Dll 

The Splintered Stair (I) D8 

The Unicorn's Horn (I) T15 

The Wandering Wemic (I) $43 

Warm Beds (I) D15 

Wyvern's Rest (I) $2 

The Yawning Portal (I) C48 

The Asp's Strike (T) C30 

The Beer Golem Tavern (T) AQ16 

The Bloody Fist (T) D17 

The Blue Jack (T) C35 

The Blue Mermaid (T) D27 

Bowels of the Earth (T) T36 

The Broken Lance (T) $59 

The Crawling Spider (T) C20 

Dragon's Head Tavern (T) C24 

The Elf stone Tavern (T) C32 

Felzoun's Folly (T) T39 

The Fiery Flagon (T) $37 

The Full Cup (T) SI4 

Full Sails (T) D35 










Advice, Gossip^ & GenenaL 
Historic at InfonmaVon 

Daily Trumpet AQ18 

Essimuth's Equipment AQ1 

Helm's Hall AQ19 

House of Velstrode C28 

Laran's Cartographers AQ12 

New Olamn Bards' College Castle Ward 

Philosopher's Court Dock Ward 


Gounar's Tavern (T) 

The Grey Griffon (T) 

$55 

D1 

Curies & HeaVi wg (T-Tempie) 

The Grinning Lion (T) 

N56 

Diloontier's Apothecary 

C13 

The Hanged Man (T) 

D32 

The Font of Knowledge (T) 

C4 

A Maiden's Tears (T) 

N25 

The Halls of Justice (T) 

C5 

Midnight Sun (T) 

S9 

The House of Healing 

N51 

The Mighty Manticore (T) 

C12 

The House of Heroes (T) 

$58 

Muleskull Tavern (T) 

D21 

The House of the Moon (T) 

$56 

The Quaffing Quaggoth (T) 

C53 

The House of Wonder (T) 

$21 

The Red-eyed Owl (T) 

C49 

Sevenlamps Cut 

Castle Ward 

The Red Gauntlet (T) 

S22 

Shrines of Nature (T) 

$5 

The Sailors' Own (T) 

C54 

Spires of the Morning (T) 

Cl 

The Sated Satyr (T) 

$1 

The Temple of Beauty (T) 

$10 

Selune's Smile (T) 

D6 

The Temple of Luck (T) 

$19 

The Ship's Wheel (T) 

The Sleeping Snake (T) 

$41 

D41 

Maps, TnanslaTions, 

& Hidden 

The Sleeping Wench (T) 

D23 

Lone 


The Sleepy Sylph (T) 

C50 

The Font of Knowledge 

C4 

The Spouting Fish (T) 

S18 

Laran's Cartographers 

AQ12 

The Swords' Rest (T) 

SI 

The Map House 

C40 

The Thirsty Sailor (T) 

D12 

New Olamn Bards' College 

Castle Ward 

The Thirsty Throat (T) 

D13 

The Old Xoblob Shop 

Next to D25 

Twilight Hunters (T) 

N26 

Serpentil Books & Folios 

DIO 

Tymora's Blessing (T) 

AQ20 

Tower of the Order 

C15 

The Underdark (T) 

T1 

The Zoarstar 

T25 





MeRcewaRy H)Rtwg 


Blackstone House T44 

Bowels of the Earth T36 

The Broken Lance $59 

Caravan Court South Ward 

Inn of the Dripping Dagger T3 

Orm's Highbench S26 

The Thirsty Throat D13 

Tymora's Blessing AQ20 

Virgin's Square Castle Ward 

Wyvern's Rest $2 


Urof teb Campa)gMS 

N ow that you've established characters in Waterdeep, 
you're ready to find excitement within the City of 
Splendors. Usually, the Dungeon Master has adventure 
hooks to provide the starting direction of a campaign, but 
some PC kits can easily change that. Look over the various 
campaign suggestions below with your fellow players and 
Dungeon Master and discuss what would be best for your 
game group. (The DM has more information on running 
specific types of campaigns in the Campaign Guide to the 
City.) After that, you're ready to leap into the game and 
"see the city" firsthand! 

Gu&n& CampaigN) 

The PCs are members of Waterdeep's guard forces, assigned 
to posts in Castle Waterdeep, along the walls, or a roving 
wilderness patrol to keep the city safe from invasion. Special 
tasks might include protecting the Lords' Court, wilderness 
patrols along the Sword Coast to Goldenfields, or guard duty 
in Mount Waterdeep (against raids from below). 

As a member of the guard, you gain the benefits of free 
room and board, free equipment, and a salary, but your time 
and motivations are not your own. You are expected to fol 
low the orders of your commanding officer (an NPC) to the 
letter and your primary concern is Waterdeep's defense. 
Independent adventuring by guard members is not permiss- 
able on duty. If you go adventuring and are missing from 
your post, you can be arrested, fined, and possibly dis 
charged from the guard. 

Waf oh Caropatgw 

The adventurers are part of the Waterdeep police, charged 
with keeping the peace in the city. This campaign has less 
variety than the guard, as all the PCs' work is limited to the 



city, with rare forays into the City of the Dead and the sew 
ers. PCs are kept to strict, regular patrols over a specific 
area during their nine- to twelve-hour shifts. 

As in the guard campaign, watch members gain regular 
pay, weapons, and room and board, but PCs have no real 
choice of where to take their activities, as they have to 
attend to their patrols (though these give them plenty of 
tavern brawls, murder mysteries, and thefts to investigate, 
there are no real "dungeon crawls" in their work). 

iMdepeMdewT CaropaJgM 

The player characters are independent of any external control 
save financial need. They are adventurers seeking fame and for 
tune, under control of no one but themselves and an employer. 
This is the standard for most AD&D campaigns, and it works 
well in Waterdeep. Nobles and merchants always need merce 
naries to help guard precious goods, acts as bodyguards, track 
down itinerant relatives, etc. And, of course, there's always the 
adventurers' challenge of Undermountain . . . 

The only problems within the city are those with the law 
enforcers. If tavern brawls are a staple of your PCs' lives, 
city jail time will be, too. PCs can do many things within 
the city, but they shouldn't have total disregard for law and 
authority, unless they wish to become enemies of the Lords 
and their agents. 



38 




Ch&pTen. Four.* 
The VVaXeR<beep 
CampaJgKi 

hile Dungeon Masters know all the secrets of the city, players 
and characters only know of information within this book. The 
entirety of the City of Splendors boxed set is dedicated to estab 
lishing long-term campaigns within the city of Waterdeep, but 
this section is specifically dedicated to creating a smaller "micro- 
focused" neighborhood in which your new player characters can begin a campaign and 
have many adventures. You'll be introduced to many NPCs for your characters to inter 
act with and many businesses to work with and frequent, and be privy to the rumors on 
the streets, many of which can lead into adventure! 

Within the chapter below, the "Startup" section gives players and DMs some basics 
about the overall setup of this campaign area and its general impact on the player char 
acter creation. Next, details on 12 major campaign buildings within the area are given, 
as well as general information on the remainder of the neighborhood. This section is 
followed by details on what is known (and rumored) about the characters the PCs can 
meet. And finally, the "News and Tavern Tales" section sets up all sorts of talk and 
events within the area that could (or should) have immediate impact upon the PCs - 
including "The Return of the Blue Axe," an event specifically geared to launch an 
adventurers' campaign within Waterdeep! 

STarTup 



T he player characters' campaign neighborhood is placed within the Southern Ward 
in an area flanked by the High Road and Coach Street. (The Adventurers' Quar 
ter can be limited specifically to those areas surrounded by Slop Street and Snake 
Alley.) Unofficially known to locals as the "Adventurers' Quarter," the area is generally 
a residential area for retired or less active adventurers surrounded by a number of sup 
port businesses for the caravan trade. (Other areas with many former adventurers are 
located farther north between Blackmul and Beacon Streets, as well as a small area 
along Irimar's Walk in Trades Ward.) These general environs are representative of 
much of the South Ward, in terms of architecture and business demographics, though 
areas closer to the docks are as rundown as the hovels of Dock Ward. 

While Chapter Four has all the basic information necessary for you to create charac 
ters for a Waterdeep campaign (i.e. what characters were before their adventuring 
began, where to get training, where to buy equipment, etc.), this chapter provides a 
heavily detailed place in which to establish your new characters as natives of (or new 
immigrants to) the City of Splendors. It furnishes the DM with a wide cast of detailed 
NPCs, many with deep, dark secrets of their own that the PCs can only learn over 
time. ... It also gives a closer look at Waterdeep and how its people operate; modeling 













other areas of the city after this is fine in terms of business 
arrangements and hidden dangers, though keep the number 
of former adventurers down-very few live to the age of 
retirement, and even fewer truly strike it rich from a life of 
dungeon-crawling. The Adventurers' Quarter-with its fas 
cinating people, intrigues small and large, and bustling 
business side -is your Waterdeep brought to life! 

The STkeeTs Wh&ze You Uv>e 

Whether your characters are natives or not, the campaign 
begins in this particular section of Waterdeep. This area 
was chosen for its proximity to a city gate, its businesses 
that aid adventurers, and its general affordability for fledg 
ling heroes. Despite the fires and devastation of Myrkul's 
minions that destroyed this area and other areas of South 
and Dock Wards in the Year of the Shadows (1358 DR, 
326 NR), this area was swiftly restored with newer build 
ings (many of the old stone foundations were reused, pro 
viding a smoke-stained contrast between building 
foundations and the new wooden upper stories). As a 
result, about half of the buildings in Adventurers' Quarter 
are about ten years old and in good condition; exceptions 
are easily noticed by age or state of repair (such as the 
Daily Trumpet building and the Kolat Towers). 

The main avenues for traffic within the Quarter include 
Weeping Maiden's Run, Grocer's Lane, Snake Alley, and 
Kerrigan's Court. Weeping Maiden's Run is named for the 
ghost that appears on the nights of the full moon during 
Kythorn (but is heard crying during any full moon). The 
figure runs silently westward from behind Hemmerem's Sta 
bles, dropping to her knees to cry softly on the stones just 
shy of Snake Alley -some say she is the shade of a girl 
Rokekk Ingerr wronged in his youth, while others insist she 
existed long before his grandsire! Grocer's Lane, an alley- 
way finally named by locals, is wide and tidy as Nindil Jal- 
buck hires men to keep it that way (and keep the midden 
within its bounds, not in the street). Many assume Snake 
Alley is named after its twisting path, but some tell tales of 
a monstrous serpent loose in Waterdeep that carved this 
path through the buildings nearly two centuries ago. Kerri 
gan's Court is named after a traitor-Lord from Ahghairon's 
time. Ahghairon killed him with spells and then cursed 
Kerrigan "to lie in the dust and never have stone to deco 
rate your passing." To this day, any large stones that are laid 
down or pass over the center of the court fly up and strike 
passersby! 

The midden and general dumping ground for refuse is 
located in the dead-end alley south of Grocer's Lane, 


behind the Krabellor Silversmiths; garbage is picked up 
every tenday by the Dungsweepers' Guild. Handbills, 
broadsheets, general notices, and employment inquiries are 
posted on the stout, post-mounted barrels that serve as 
kiosks; there is one at the intersection of Weeping 
Maiden's Run and Fishwife Alley and another at the comer 
of the Way of the Dragon and Fillet Lane, as well as many 
others throughout the city. 

Watch and guard rotations occur in this neighborhood 
on the same schedules as the rest of the city, though there 
is a bit more activity around the watch guardpost on Gro 
cer's Lane. There are rarely problems in this area, due to 
the abilities and watchfulness of the locals, the many for 
mer adventurers being quite capable of dealing with mis 
creants, thieves, and taproom-brawlers. More often than 
not, criminals are delivered to the doorstep of the guard- 
post for questioning and, if necessary, delivery to the Mag- 
isters or the Lord's Court. With this "neighborhood watch" 
in effect, this area is far safer at night than many areas this 
close to Dock Ward. 

Gu)be> To the A&uewTuReKs' 
QixxrCC&n. 

Below, the buildings are split into major and minor places 
of interest. The major areas are organized in order of their 
map placement designators (the poster map is enclosed in 
this boxed set); major encounter areas are heavily detailed 
with physical descriptions and interior details. The minor 
locations are also organized by their designators and place 
ment, though many details are left to the DM (aside from 
those here and in the City Map Key, Chapter Three of the 
Campaign Guide to the City). 

AQ1. Business: Essimuth's Equipment 

The ground floor of this less-than-tidy two-story tenement 
contains this equipment shop, its wooden sign showing an 
armored knight walking doubled over with an overstuffed 
pack. Inside, the shop is surprisingly organized and well 
kept, a shop boy always busy polishing and dusting the rack 
of weapons and armor behind a counter. There are barrels 
and racks of nearly any conceivable piece of equipment 
usable by adventurers at reasonable prices (at the same cost 
or slightly less than that listed in the Players' Handbook). 

The short, battle-scarred proprietor, Essimuth, sits upon 
a stool behind the main counter at all times of the day, 
constantly whittling and carving pieces of wood that he 
also sells as trinkets (his standards are little ores that he 
often just tosses to children who enter his shop). His right 





40 


eye is covered with an eye patch, a dull, jagged scar from 
brow to jaw telling its fate, and his right leg is replaced 
below the knee with a peg leg (also carved by Essimuth 
into a little owlbear bearing his weight on its shoulders and 
arms). People that shop here can expect great service in 
terms of Essimuth telling what's available and how best to 
use it in the dungeons; of course, this is all tangled within 
somewhat long-winded stories of Essimuth's adventuring 
days. Ele loves hearing adventurers' stories (as it gives him 
an excuse to tell his) and continuing patrons with stories to 
share receive special attentions (and newer merchandise) 
than those patrons who "know better about their equip 
ment" or "don't have the time for an old man's tales," who 
tend to receive higher charges. 

AQ2. Row House: Temple of Good Cheer 

Located within the three-story row house just off the cor 
ner of Fishwife Alley and Slop Street, the Temple of Good 
Cheer is little more than a few common rooms on the sec 
ond floor. Accessible from the streets (an external stairwell 
leads here from the south face off Weeping Maiden's Run), 
the Temple is also the home of Arkiem and Rachel Arren, 
respective priests of Milil and Lliira. It is usually first 
noticed by the fact that this part of the building is occupied 
and kept clean, as opposed to the vacant, decrepit lower 
and topmost floors; Arkiem and Rachel are saving money 
to purchase the building from its owner to fix up the entire 
building and establish a more proper temple, not just a 
temporary plaque of their holy symbols in a window. The 
entire western third of the building is one long room used 
for dance classes. The southeast room at the top of the 
stairs (inside and out) is the makeshift temple, large silver 
holy symbols mounted high on a wall swathed in red vel 
vet. On the east side of the building is a small room for 
Arkiem's classes and instruments, with the remainder of 
the rooms being interconnected as a living suite for the 
married couple. 

They rent the entire center floor, using various rooms for 
mutual worship and dance and music instruction. Both of 
them take donations to teach the local young (and old) 
adults their skills, and many have benefited from these 
lessons; in fact, while Rachel is embarrassingly modest 
about her skills, her rare knowledge of Rashemite, 
Tethyran, and ancient elven court dances have sparked a 
resurgence in them at balls of nobles and commoners alike. 
Rachel's dance classes range from court dancing and proper 
dances for balls with nobility to ancient folk dances and 
celebratory peasant dances from all over the Realms. She 


takes care to show her students how Lliira's patronage of 
joy and happiness is reflected in dance; to the chagrin of 
some male students, however, she does not teach or reveal 
the fabled, hedonistic dances to Lliira unless among fellow 
devout worshipers at closed ceremonies. Arkiem is able to 
teach about three students at a time in stringed instruments 
of any type (as an elf, he has had over two hundred years of 
study . . . ) and is quite adept with flutes. He has on hand 
two additional lutes, one small lyre, and a set of pan pipes 
for students to use but not remove from the building. The 
songs he teaches are, for the most part, common ballads, 
though he has taught a few elven ballads (though they lose 
much of their beauty if translated from Elvish). 

The Arrens only moved into the Adventurers' Quarter six 
months ago from outside the city, and are still relatively new 
to Waterdeep. They know quite a few people within this 
ward and have slowly begun to learn Waterdeep's intrigues 
and mysteries outside of their little neighborhood. Much of 
this comes from Arkiem's nightly performances at the Safe- 
haven and Rachel's tutoring of young noblewomen. 

AQ3. Row House: Madame Garah's Boarding House 

This two-story timber, wattle-and-daub building fronts 
onto Slop Street and faces Curtain Alley with a row of 
small glass windows on either side of a wide arched door. 
As the house has no sign or markings, one only enters 
Mme. Garah's house on invitation or if seeking a room for 
an extended stay (a tenday or more). The entry is flanked 
by a jakes and a closet for cloaks. The entryway opens into 
a large, open parlor with a stairwell on the right of the 
room, a desk and chair underneath the steep stairs. The 
dining room is through an open archway on the left, to the 
left of the fireplace and hearth, and the large kitchen is 
behind a door at the foot of the stairs. The stairs lead up to 
the upper floor, where there are eight rooms to rent. The 
cellar is reached through a trapdoor in the kitchen, and is 
used for cool storage and a pantry. 

Mme. Garah and her adopted son live in a converted 
three-room suite on the upper floor to one side of the stair 
well, and they have access to the kitchen by means of a spi 
ral stair from their common room. All of the rented rooms 
are of equal size, spacious enough for up to two people, and 
each comes equipped with a bed, a washbasin and chamber 
pot, a small chest, and a small oil lamp. Copper bathing 
tubs and hot water are available upon request for an addi 
tional charge (10 silver pieces). Rooms are 35 silver pieces 
per tenday, with the two rooms on each floor with windows 
facing Slop Street costing five silver pieces more per tenday 



and the two back rooms with windows over Weeping 
Maiden's Run an additional three silver pieces. Each of the 
rooms can be individually locked, though Mme. Garah 
retains a skeleton key for all doors. 

With the pay for their rooms, boarders receive two meals 
daily, at midmorning and at sunset. Madame Garah rewards 
promptness with hearty meals of fresh bread, robust stews, 
savory roasts, and fine soups such as her kitchen can pro 
vide; while she is the primary cook and baker, her son is 
swiftly learning some cooking finesse and may soon outclass 
his mother. If boarders miss a meal, day-old rolls and slices 
of cold beef are left in their rooms. 

AQ4 and AQ5 are among the "Minor Areas of Interest" 
below. 

AQ6. House: Home of Rokkek Ingerr 

One of many who bought up destroyed property in South 
and Dock Wards after the Wardfires, Rokkek Ingerr built a 
two-story stone manse with a large walled garden, as the 
Lords paid him well for his lost goods. Rokkek hopes his 
shipping trade to the south will make him wealthy enough 
to rub elbows with the nobles of Waterdeep. He flaunts his 
wealth in his home, building it of the "best granite of the 
Northlands," tiling the inner wall with jade mosaics from 
Kozakura, etc. "Lavishly decorated" is how he sees it; all 
others call it "overdone and impractical" as it takes twice as 
many servants to keep the walls and building clean. The 
courtyard area is open for all during the winter days, and 
new ice and snow sculptures are created each tenday to the 
delight of children (many still talk about the life-size carv 
ings of a frost giant fighting an ice dragon from three win 
ters back!). Despite Rokkek's excesses, he gets along with 
almost everyone in South Ward. Rokkek's wife, Imerra, can 
be found at the Safehaven almost nightly, as she is a fan 
(and student) of Arkiem Arren. Rokkek stays occupied in 
his business, spending much time keeping an eye on his 
warehouses and his ships down in Dock Ward. 


to allow passage. Within the small courtyard is an elm tree 
and an unkempt rose garden that has taken to growing up 
and over the northeastern wall. 

The Towers' external upkeep is relatively slipshod, but 
the wizards are rarely given to housework. When they pur 
chased the burnt-out remains of an enterprising merchant's 
manor and the land around it, they simply patched the 
houses and manor together magically, sealing the towers 
with wall of stone and stoneshape spells. Despite its ram 
shackle appearance (members of the Carpenters', Roofers', 
and Plaisterers' Guild want to condemn the improvised 
building as an eyesore, but no one has the temerity to sug 
gest this to the wizards), many within the ward compliment 
the wizards on their thrift. Few have been within the Tow 
ers, but those who have say that it seems immensely bigger 
inside than outside, apparently holding over 50 rooms from 
tiny closets to immense halls! Branta Myntion, Alcedor's 
apprentice and clerk, suggests some other mysteries about 
the Towers, like the various glass statues (and shattered 
piles of glass) within the garden; she says they are actually 
thieves who tried to enter the building uninvited and were 
thusly transformed (how long the enchantment lasts is 
rarely discussed nor disputed by the local authorities). 

If people wish to meet Alcedor or Duhlark Kolat, just 
leave word at the Beer Golem tavern or wait for them 
there. Either their clerk and apprentice, Branta Myntion, 
will receive the message or, on irregular nights, the wizards 
may arrive themselves. The wizards are rarely seen 
together; if together, they tend to be in deep 
discussion/argument over some magical theory or other. 
Alcedor is by far the friendlier with his ever-present owl 
familiar Inquisitor. They rarely, if ever, work for hire, and 
would be greatly offended by such suggestions, but they do 
help those that can aid them in their respective researches 
and varied interests (especially rich nobles who wish for a 
magical trinket or two). If characters become involved with 
the wizards Kolat, keep in mind that tact is one of the few 
things wizards do not study every day. 


AQ7 is within the "Minor Areas of Interest" below. 

AQ8. Wizards' Tower: Kolat Towers 

This oddly shaped building, composed of the remains of an 
old stone manor and two sturdy cottages, is enclosed by a 
low, encircling stone wall with iron spikes. An iron gate is 
set in the southern wall with no apparent hinge; if one asks 
the magical metal wyvern's head atop the gate for entrance 
and is admitted, the gates move into the stone wall slightly 


AQ9. City Building: Watch Guardpost 

Up until two years ago, this spot on Grocer's Lane was just 
an aging and abandoned warehouse. Then, the land and 
building were purchased by the city watch, where they 
demolished the old and replaced it with a two-story stone 
building that acts as a local watchpost. If there is trouble 
within South Ward or within earshot of Dock Ward, they 
can count on backup from the eight people always sta 
tioned here. Additional weapons and some essential magi- 




cal items (wand of negation, wand of paralysis) are stored 
here, but can only be accessed with a key held by the armar 
of the post. The second floor contains living quarters and 
weapons stores. The cellar contains preserved food stores 
and two small cells for troublemakers, should the walltower 
cells become full. There are rumors that some of the watch 
guardposts have additional cellars for watch-wizard labora 
tories and hidden, secret entrances to the sewers (or even 
to Undermountain!). Such rumors are unsubstantiated and 
all current and former members of the watch refuse to com 
ment on them. 

AQ10. Home/Business: The Garrulous Grocer 

These three adjoining buildings are owned by Nindil Jal- 
buck, a halfling merchant. The one-story long building has 
two doors leading into a one-room grocery with all manner 
of foodstuffs, dry goods, and household supplies in ready 
reserves. A door within the grocery leads into the two-story 
storehouse and granary, where much of the produce is 
stored. Next to the two-building arrangement for business 
is the row house that Nindil shares with his wife Cynthia 
and his employees. A three story wattle-and-daub with a 
stone foundation, the ground floor holds the kitchens, 
small parlor and front room, and rooms for Riath and Illia, 


the married servant couple. The upper two stories are com 
bined suites, with the eastern face of the upper story cov 
ered with huge glass windows; the upper floor contains the 
Jalbucks' private rooms, whereas the second story is one 
room that acts as a dining hall and impromptu ballroom. 

During the summer and harvest months, the Grocer's 
bins are always overflowing with fresh fruits and vegetables 
direct from the fields; during the winter months, dried and 
preserved produce is available. All of the grains and pro 
duce are provided by Goldenfields through a friendly 
agreement between Nindil and Tolgar Anuvien. Fresh 
milk, butter, and cheese are always on hand, thanks to 
Nindil's small herd of cows that are kept at a local farm to 
the east. The Garrulous Grocer is open from sunup to 
highsun every day, with special full day hours once every 
tenday when fresh butter, cheeses, and other prepared 
items are sold. While the store is open, Riath and Nindil 
act as haulers, stockers, and as the primary help; Cynthia 
and Illia keep the house and the grocery in order, make 
sure everything is tended, and act as the primary sales staff. 
After closing at highsun, all attend to other chores from 
churning butter to repairing and restocking the bins and 
the stores. Nindil spends one afternoon a tenday outside 
the city at Goldenfields. 



43 



AQ11. Business: Krabbellor Silversmiths 

Krabbellor Silversmiths is placed within a stone building 
with one wattle-and-daub upper story, one that survived 
the fires of 1358 but has been soot-stained ever since. This 
little first floor shop, fronting off Weeping Maiden's Run, is 
less than perfectly maintained, its windows cracked and 
dirty and its floors almost always unswept and dusty. Never 
theless, the wares in the window showcase draw many into 
this otherwise unremarkable shop. The showcase and three 
tall floor-to-ceiling sets of shelves are filled with incredibly 
fine silverwork (dwarves notice immediately that these 
were worked by a dwarf). Nearly anything made of silver 
can be found here, from silverware to tea sets, daggers to 
trophies, or even daring headresses and bustiers of silver 
mail! Each item within the shop is a display piece and pur 
chases are made to order; people say that Krabbellor is 
slower in his work than his immediate competitor (Ilmar 
Gaukul, over on Fishwife Alley), but his craftsmanship and 
versatility make it worth the wait. Depending on the size of 
the order and the workload, it takes anywhere from two 
days to thirty for Krabbellor and Erik to finish an order and 
deliver it. 

While most naturally assume Krabbellor was a former 
adventurer, he bristles at such suggestions: "Me brother 
died on some fool quest seeking gold and fame; there's 
precious few dwarves enough, and I'd always been more 
fond of my life and my silver." His left hand is coated with 
iron (an accident from early childhood); since then, 
Krabbellor had his hand and its metal magically reshaped 
and reforged into the shape of a hammer to give it some 
use, thus giving him the nickname of "Hammerhand." He 
is gruff and dour, a typical dwarf in all appearances with a 
very conservative and cautious outlook. Hammerhand's 
specialty item is creating his unique carved silver goblets, 
of which he boasts that no set is like any other; in the 
past, he has created goblets with bases of fires with the 
smoke becoming the goblet, or giants in the base holding 
up cornucopias (a set carved for Piergeiron was made in 
the likeness of Waterdeep's Lords, drink being held within 
their helms). His apprentice, Erik, is a bright, cheerful lad 
who laughs at many of Hammerhand's threats as "over 
worrying," though he does heed them. He is one of the 
few who can get a smile out of Hammerhand, having been 
raised by him for the past six years. Erik's specialty is sil 
ver-plating weapons. 

The only other remarkable item of note about the 
shop is its ghost. More an image from the past than an 
actual ghostly spirit, the apparation is that of a young boy 


carrying a long-poled lantern. His clothes and lantern 
mark him as one of the Chandlers' and Lamplighters' 
Guild of a century agone. He enters the shop through the 
center of the east wall and, looking behind him every few 
seconds, walks hurriedly through all objects and exits 
through the forge and the west wall. The boy seems very 
frightened of someone behind him; of note, the boy's 
steps make no sound but he is swiftly pursued by heavy 
bootsteps and the tapping of a cane only a few seconds 
behind him. This visitation occurs each year on the last 
night of Kythorn. 

AQ12 and AQ13 are listed among the "Minor Areas of 
Interest" below. 

AQ14. Inn: The Safehaven Inn 

This new three-story stone and timber structure is one of 
the tallest large buildings in this part of the city. Large 
wooden plank signs swing in the breezes at the inn's second 
story; their faces are carved with five runes: The elder runes 
of Lammath ("safety and shelter") and Retniw ("camping 
place"), a Harper's mark of Safe Haven, and the elvish and 
dwarvish runes for Safe Refuge. Above the heavy ash-wood 
double doors on Slop Street, golden letters are set in the 
stones of the arch, proclaiming the inn "The Safehaven." 
(There is a small service entrance off Kerrigan's Court 
usable only by the staff.) 

Inside, the entryway has two stairways leading up to an 
open balcony overlooking the taproom. A halfling-sized 
desk is set by the left stairwell for guests to be checked in 
and other taproom patrons to be tended. The large build 
ing's main floor is surrounded on the north side with a mas 
sive oak bar and barstools, the wall behind dominated by 
three large tuns of beer and smaller casks of wine. The floor 
contains fifteen round tables (seating for six at each) amply 
dispersed around the room, and four large support pillars 
hold up the third floor, smaller booths lining the walls and 
supporting the balcony. The fireplace hearth in the western 
wall is huge, and its six-foot depth opens through to the 
kitchen; food is cooked over the same fire, and inviting 
flames are rarely obscured by boiling pots or spits (though 
the delicious odors of the kitchen permeate the taproom 
constantly!). 

The second floor is little more than an encircling bal 
cony over the taproom with 12 spacious rooms for 3 gp per 
night each; rates are 25 gp for a tenday stay, and no one 
(unless known and befriended by the owners) is allowed to 
room for more than two tendays' stretch. The lockable 







44 


rooms provide a large bed, table, washbasin, mirror, and 
small chest for storage; room fees also include a free dinner 
each day. Each room has a window looking out onto the 
streets, but there are no window ledges, thus making it a 
little more difficult for thieves to enter. The first door after 
the right-hand stairwell opens up to a small staircase to the 
third floor and the converted suites of the inn's owners. Inn 
patrons are not allowed up to the suites or into the kitchen, 
and little is known about any cellars in the inn. 

The Safehaven is one of the most popular inns in the 
ward, its tables always filled by early evening with diners 
and bar patrons and its rooms quickly filled after that. 
Through the diligence of the headwaiter and the unspoken 
threat of the bouncers, few troublemakers ever disturb the 
peace here. Many nobles flock to this inn for the sumptu 
ous meals and easygoing company, as well as the nightly 
musical entertainment by Arkiem Arren. The inn is built 
upon the site of a former warehouse of Lhorar Gildeggh, 
the exiled Guildmaster of Waterdeep; many whisper that 
the bones of many of his opponents rest beneath the inn 
still. 

AQ15 is listed among the "Minor Areas of Interest" 
below. 

AQ16. The Beer Golem Tavern 

This cheery tavern fronts the corner of Slop Street and 
Snake Alley, its sign visible on both. The heavy wood sign 
depicts a keg tap emitting an amber-colored elemental - 
beer suds for its hair and beard -who raises its drinking 
horn to potential patrons. The outside walls are soot- 
stained granite blocks, the upper story of timber with a 
slate roof. 

Inside, the taproom is open and welcoming, warm wood 
paneling covering the stone walls and floor (though some 
areas toward the back wall are pockmarked from past dag 
ger-throwing competitions). The front of the tavern is 
dominated by a large, well-polished ironwood bar, a well- 
used footrail carved directly out of the rich wood. The 
walls are lined with booths and the main floor has eight 
large common tables with chairs for fifty patrons. The 
hearth and fireplace encompass nearly half the back wall 
facing the bar, and two smaller tables with chairs are set by 
the fire for important persons or performing bards. The 
main entrance is flanked on the right by a cloakroom for 
sodden or muddied cloaks and outerwear (there's also a 
hidden entrance therein to get behind the bar) and on the 
left by a small privy. 


All entrants in the Beer Golem Tavern are greeted with 
a hearty bellow from Quallos Myntion, the tavern's volumi 
nous owner, who's always found bustling about the place, 
polishing tankards or sweeping the spotless floor. Quallos 
makes it a point to greet all patrons who enter his estab 
lishment, "a courtesy of us Southerners that many in the 
North ingraciously omit." His habit of seating customers 
himself is well known and endured, if only to humor the 
aging man. Quallos never seats known rivals or enemies 
near each other and he (and his sons) are always vigilant in 
keeping any troubles (and potential brawls) from getting 
out of hand. 

The kitchen is the domain of Miri Myntion, Quallos' 
wife and the Beer Golem's chief cook. Though the fare is 
limited (as many of the locals eat at the Safehaven), it is 
rich and flavorful. Of the few hot meals served here, Miri's 
specialty is "Owlbear Stew," a hot, spicy stew of beef, 
sausages, onions, potatoes, and a healthy variety of spices 
to give it a fiery, biting aftertaste. Other menu items 
include biscuits, cheeses, roasted chickens, and baked or 
roasted potatoes. 

The only other employees at the Beer Golem are two of 
the Myntion children, Tomed and Cial. Tomed acts as a 
bartender, a stableman, and general taproom peacekeeper, 
being more than strong enough to handle skittish horses 
and drunken troublemakers alike. Cial, Quallos' and Miri's 
eldest, acts as the barmaid and waitress. 

What brings patrons into the tavern, aside from the typi 
cal draws, are the rare ales and beers Quallos acquires 
through Aurora's wholesale business and other sources. 
While Quallos provides a heady beer of his own making, he 
also keeps such rare southern drinks as Luiren's Best and 
Old One Eye on tap -brews that not even the House of 
Good Spirits keeps in stock! 

There are no rooms for rent at the Beer Golem Tavern, 
as the upper floor contains the living quarters for Quallos, 
Miri, and Cial (Tomed rents a room a few streets over and 
Branta has rooms at the Towers). 

AQ17. Phaulkonmere 

By far one of the grandest and best-kept buildings of South 
Ward, this walled villa seems very much out of place 
among the warehouses and tradeshops of the area. Four 
warehouses once stood where Phaulkonmere is now, but 
these were destroyed in the Wardfires of 1358 DR (326 
NR); the land was purchased by an up-and-coming mer 
chant, well-to-do caravan organizer, and minor noble from 
Cormyr. Lord Bronson Phaulkon took the land and built 



his wife and family a manor "amongst those people who 
support us, not amongst those who wish to associate with 
us due only to our income." The manor and its high-walled 
gardens were finished by winter of the next year. 

Phaulkonmere is two buildings within a walled enclo 
sure. The two-story manor house is lavishly decorated with 
pillars, polished stone, and gilded falcons alighting from 
each comer of its small high tower. Windows are also plen 
tiful, allowing much light and air into the luxurious house. 
All around the top of the manor wall are golden metal 
barbed spikes which help protect the gardens. While the 
gates and spikes deter trespassers, the manor house has 
magical protections provided by the Watchful Order of 
Magists & Protectors (only Lord Phaulkon and the mages 
involved know what such wards are, and they are changed 
monthly). 

The Phaulkon family is well known and loved through 
out the Adventurers' Quarter, the daughters having grown 
into great beauties sought by many young men (noble or 
otherwise). Their parties each season are open to their 
neighbors and friends, not exclusively nobles or merchants; 
their closest friends within the nobility are the Tarms 
(young Lord Arum Tarm is betrothed to Lady Jeryth 
Phaulkon, and is most distraught and incensed over her 
disappearance). Their lives seemed a dream until the death 
of Lady Cera and the abduction of Jeryth. Now, the splen 
did home is draped in black crepe, mourning wreaths hang 
ing over every window. The Lord Phaulkon has not been 
seen much since the news broke, and his eldest daughter 
Marie is quite distraught over her missing sister. 



Minor Areas of Interest 

Amrani's Laundry (AQ4): With the close boarding 
houses, clothiers, and inns nearby, Amrani and her small 
staff of young girls are kept constantly busy with laundry. 
Payment is set at the standard guild rates (2 sp per garment 
while you wait, 1 sp for overnight washing), but additional 
money gets special treatment for one's clothes such as per 
fumed soaps (an additional 5 cp), new embroidery or fresh 
dyes to brighten the cloth (1-5 additional sp) or minor 
stitching and repairs (an additional 1 sp). Amrani and 
Madame Garah are old friends and are often found out on 
the curbsides chatting. 

Helm's Hall (AQ19): While tales tell of heroes rich and 
famous, few are told of those who dare the dungeons and 
lose, with even fewer told of those they leave behind. Kiber 
Ederick, an aged paladin of Helm, lost his wife and eldest 
son to assassins twenty years ago while he was off on a 
quest, and he doesn't know to this day what happened to 
his youngest children, boy and girl twins. This turned his 
duty to protecting the weak and watching over those who 
are forgotten or lost due to misplaced heroism. He takes 
many orphans off Waterdeep's streets and feeds and clothes 
them. Together with the help of various temples through 
out the city, Kiber teaches the children basic reading, writ 
ing, and the history of the Realms. Many of the children 
ten and over are either apprenticed or working with the 
Lamplighters' Guild at night, though they must show the 
ability to ply a trade before leaving Helm's Hall at age 15. 
At the current time, Kiber runs the orphanage with four 
other helpers, and there are 30 children at Helm's Hall (12 
girls, 18 boys). 

Hemmerems' Stables (AQ7): An enterprising young 
merchant wisely bought up four decrepit warehouses 
fronting on Slop Street two years ago and spent six 
months and much gold renovating them. The one- and 
two-story stables now bear well-kept fronts, and "STA 
BLES" is emblazoned across the front of all four buildings 
in bright green paint. The lower floors are the stables, with 
room enough for 100 horses here at one time. On the floor 
above, Hemmerem keeps an office in each building, multi 
ple storerooms for stabling equipment and tack and bard- 
ing, and loads of dry hay and feed for the horses. Fees for 
stabling and feeding a horse here are 2 sp fewer less than 6 
hours, 1 gp for up to 48 hours, or 4 gp for a tenday. Because 
Hemmerem remembers his downtrodden days, he also has 
twenty cots set up in the northern stable's second floor 
that he lets to people at 1 cp per night (all folk turned out 
at sunrise). 




46 



Ingerr & Ingerr Warehouses (AQ15): This large 
block of warehouses stores many of the imported goods 
from any number of small villages and large cities of the 
North. All these goods are shipped out by sea to cus 
tomers in Calimshan and Tethyr. The warehouses are 
watched over by Jaffar, Rokkek Ingerr's assistant, and his 
hired mercenaries. Jaffar lives in rooms atop one of the 
two story warehouses, with easy rooftop access to any of 
the four warehouses. 

Laran's Cartographers (AQ12): One of the best cartog 
raphers, formerly based at the Zoarstar, has opened this new 
shop on Grocer's Lane, establishing his own business of cre 
ating maps on order. For affordable fees, Laran and his staff 
will take log books, notes, and descriptions of lands and 
areas in question and create maps of desired sizes. Laran is 
also noted as a top-rate illustrator and is commissioned 
quite often to render portraits of customers. 

Piatran Clothiers (AQ5): This little one-story shop has 
a split floor in the back, rising up three steps to changing 
rooms and mirrored rooms for trying on new cloaks, robes, 
and other garments. Piatran, a thin, gaunt man of impecca 
ble dress, is a mystery to many of the city; he is generous 
with discounts on his cloaks and garments (especially if 
friends vouch for you) and prefers to haggle over price 
rather than set one at the start. It's rumored he traffics in 
magical garments, but there are none to be found within 
his shop. 

Tymora's Blessing (AQ20): A rough-and-tumble tavern 
always filled to the brim with veteran and would-be adven 
turers, this is a wonderful place to hear and tell stories of 
the North and beyond. Take care not to dispute the verac 
ity of anyone's tales, however, as many brawls are started 
that way. The hill giant bartender (who alleges that he's 
really the trapped soul of Trahnt, a dwarven cleric of 
Tymora) wields a large warhammer that tends to end any 
arguments and disruptions quite forcibly. Simply for the 
ease of the barkeep, this two-story building has no upper 
floor, but simply a balcony with ten booths so patrons can 
be served by serving maids or Trahnt's lengthy reach. 

The Waterdeep Daily Trumpet (AQ18): This old stone 
two-story building, home to one of Waterdeep's more infa 
mous broadsheets, is constantly in need of cleaning due to 
"dissenting opinions armed, alas, with rotten eggs and veg 
etables," according to the Trumpet's editor. The broad 
sheets are printed and distributed each afternoon, posted 
on the various kiosks throughout the city and available for 
1 cp each. Each tenday, the Trumpet reprints each of its 


previous broadsheets and adds two pages of editorials and 
editorial cartoons by an anonymous artist, creating a small 
12-page folio that is sold by street criers for 1 sp. Despite its 
somewhat sketchy facts in reporting the social goings-on 
inside the parties of North and Sea Wards (Hlanta 
Melshimber still resents the insinuations that she had 
spoiled, inferior wines at her last party, while Ultas Maer- 
nos is still demanding reparations for a report that he was 
affiliated with a rumored evil cult), the Trumpet has many 
eyes and ears and much of what is reported tends to be 
found true. While the editor, one Carson Innes, is given to 
"provocative and enticing" headlines and reporting, he 
does tend to steer clear of outright libel and definitely takes 
care not to openly insult or question the Lords and their 
rulings; this is all that keeps him and his staff of 12 from 
being exiled outside the city walls. 

Waukeen's Wares (AQ13): Located right next to the 
Daily Trumpet on Grocer's Lane is a small moneylenders' 
and pawn shop with an old copper sign of Waukeen 
swinging in the breeze out front. Within is a cluttered, 
hopelessly disorganized (to all but the owner) shop of 
curios, trinkets, and some valuable items pawned for 
quick sums of pocket money. The proprietor, a bald little 
human by the name of Alek Lenter, is a hyperactive, 
skinny fellow who can't sit still for more than lb seconds 
at a time. He is more than happy to accept nearly any 
thing of value and pay up to 70% of what it's worth; of 
course, the interest fees are 12% per tenday to buy back 
the same item, and few return to pick up their goods. 
After four months, items are for sale at 90-100% of their 
value to all but the original seller. Despite Alek's appar 
ent harmlessness, people who cheated him have never 
been seen after they've left his shop. 



Advetotwzerts' 

QuakT^k 


s they say, there are a million stories in the city, and so few adven 
turers take the time to listen to any of them. All they know are the 
intricacies of dungeons and the names of long-dead kings whose 
treasure has yet to be claimed by the living. Well, living in Water- 
deep introduces you to hundreds of people daily; the following 
chapter familiarizes you and yours with "your neighbors" in the Adventurers' Quarter. 
Your player characters are the newest residents in the Adventurers' Quarter (unless 
your character has a background history there) and much of the thrust of your first few 
adventures will be to acquaint yourselves with all the people. While not everyone has 
been mentioned or named (such as the many orphans, servants, mercenary guards, et 
al), many of the folk below have stories just as exciting as those you'll tell around the 
tavern. It's just up to you whether you learn them or not. . . . 

Oh, and before your characters badger any ex-adventurers for advice and guidance 
(and favors, etc.), keep in mind that Dungeon Masters can use these characters to dis 
pense as much or as little help as the PCs need. After all, these characters went 
through all the same adventures you will, and the best experience is that learned from 
your own mistakes, not someone else's. 

NPCs of MajoR ItoTeResT 

E ach of the NPCs below is a fully detailed character, but not all of that information 
is stored below. Characters' bits of history and hidden secrets are only revealed to 
the Dungeon Master in the Secrets of the City book; if players wish to learn these secrets 
and any other information about the characters, all the information must come from 
roleplaying and interacting with the characters, not just picking up another book. As 
stated above, many of these characters have their own stories to tell, and some are quite 
fascinating. Players and the PC heroes just need to know the right questions and the 
right people to ask to find them out. 

At the start, players and their characters only know the following data: 

CbaKAcTeK. Name 

Occupation: This is the character's career (or what he or she says it is) and how he or 
she makes money. 

Locations: The first location listed is where the character lives; the second and succes 
sive locations are places she or he is apt to be found throughout the city. 













Description: This is a general physical description of a char 
acter in terms of race, skin color, hair, eyes, clothing, 
and other immediate details easily spotted by player 
characters. 

Personality: This is a quick "general impression" charac 
ters can get from initial meetings combined with "the 
word on the street." These include standard manner 
isms that the character always uses, comparisons 
against the societal norms, and how the character 
interacts with other characters. 

Trivia: Items listed here tend to be uncommon actions, 
phrases, or things that truly set the character apart from 
others ("shticks"), such as a character with a wandering 
eye or a woman who's never seen without her pet cat. 


skintight outfit of orange, red, and yellow silk. 

Personality: One comrade described Rachel best as "a 
human with a halfling's energy, an elf's grace, a dwarf's 
tenacity, and an ogre's temper." Rachel is a highly pleas 
ant person, her smiles ample testament to Lliira, the 
goddess of joy. However, Rachel does not suffer fools 
and liars gladly. She has an uncanny knack for sensing 
peoples' honesty; if they are not truthful with her, she 
wants little to do with them. While she can be catlike 
and mercurial, Rachel finds pleasure in nearly every 
thing, be it a ray of sunshine, the taste of a fresh red 
apple from a grocer's cart, or her husband's kiss. 

Trivia: Rachel always wears an old brass pendant stamped 
with Lliira's symbol around her neck. 


Afck)em A ruz&to 

Occupation: Cleric of Milil, music teacher, bard 

Locations: AQ2; AQ14, New Olamn, C4, C25, C32, T19 

Description: Tall, slender Arkiem has long, curly, blond 
locks, pointed ears, and the deep bronze skin of a gold 
elf. He favors white and green in his simple clothes of 
tunic, jerkin, and breeches with high, soft leather boots. 
His only finery is a gold oak leaf clasp on his forest green 
cloak. He always carries his panpipes on his belt. 

Personality: Arkiem is much more personable than most elves, 
and is all smiles for all people, so far as anyone's noticed. 
Arkiem is quietly proud, accepting praise for his skill with a 
harp but not being overly arrogant or self-aggrandizing. He 
has few of the prejudices against humans and the other 
races that many gold elves share, and this also adds to his 
popularity among the humans of Waterdeep. 

Trivia: Arkiem has names for many of his personal instru 
ments (for example, his lute is named "Sparrow"), 
though no one knows if any of his instruments are magi 
cal (a typical reason to name something). 

Rachel Arzn^si 

Occupation: Priestess, dance instructor 

Locations: AQ2; AQ14, C9, S15, D18 

Description: Rachel is a young human woman of medium 
height with waist-length russet hair. Her bright, crystal- 
blue eyes and her distinct, aquiline attributes give her a 
memorable presence. When adventuring, she wears a 
red tabard over chain armor custom-cut for freedom of 
movement, and her hair is worn up in a crown. Now, 
she usually wears tight leather breeches and flowing 
tunics with soft doeskin boots. Her dancing and prayer 
garb is a voluminous but daringly-cut robe over a 


CUok 

Occupation: Watch armar (South Ward) 

Locations: AQ9; AQ16, S9, T13, wanders Southern Ward 

Description: Clion is a short, red-haired man with a neatly 
trimmed full beard and short cropped hair. His com 
plexion is the standard ruddiness of the Northmen, but 
his eyes are the uncommon color of sand. While short 
(5'), he has a wiry, muscular frame and his strength is 
often underestimated. When on duty, he wears the 
uniform of a watch patrolman. Off duty, he favors loose 
tunics, close-cut pants, high boots, and a vest made of 
lizard skin. 

Personality: Clion is a joker by nature, always ready with a 
quip or snide remark. There isn't a joke or a snappy 
retort told within the city that Clion doesn't know. 
However, the jokes end when he's at work, as all his 
concentration is set on keeping order and doing his job. 
He has two commendations from Helve Urtrace for 
excellent work, though he has been warned about his 
use of excessive force when arresting nonhumanoids. 

Trivia: Clion has a distinct knife scar slashed across the 
back of his right hand. 

Travis DeepdelL 

Occupation: Co-owner and bartender, Safehaven Inn 

Locations: AQ14; AQ19 

Description: Travis is a slight, fair-skinned man with shoul 
der length brown hair that covers his slightly pointed 
ears. He dresses only in shades of blue, which comple 
ment his blue eyes, though his high boots are polished 
black leather. 

Personality: Travis Deepdell is oftimes considered more elf 
than human, as he is so uncommonly quiet. Few have 







ever heard him speak, and many think he is mute. 
While quiet and unassuming, his eyes and hand gestures 
communicate a slow-to-rise but frigid temper. He is a 
fair, patient man and a doting, attentive father to his 
daughter and stepdaughter. 

Trivia: While he never seems to carry any weapons, he 
always has daggers on hand when he needs them. He 
also has an uncanny knack of calming and quieting 
animals (and sometimes people) with only a wave of 
his hand. 

VhoKJKia Deepdell 

Occupation: Instructor at Field of Triumph, volunteer at 
Helm's Hall 

Locutions: AQ14; the Field of Triumph, AQ3, AQ19 

Description: Vhonna Lanys-Deepdell is a tall, regal human 
woman with short, curly chestnut locks, deep brown 
eyes, and a dazzling (though all too rare) smile. In her 
adventuring days, Vhonna wore custom-made magical 
plate armor; now, she wears peasant dresses and modest 
clothes that still flatter her muscular figure. 

Personality: Unapproachable, aloof, and very guarded are 
the initial reactions many have to this dignified 
woman, and that is what she appears on the surface. If 
she is comfortable around a person (often someone 
Travis or Madame Garah also trusts), she allows people 
to see her softer side, with her fond memories of the 
wilderness of the Sword Coast, her enjoyment of long 
walks along the Sea Ward beach, and a sincere love of 
music. Vhonna is a woman who cares so deeply about 
those around her that her emotional "armor" is the 
only way to cope with the losses her duty to Lord Torm 
has cost her. Putting the two together creates one of 
the strongest female adventurers ever seen in the 
Sword Coast, a woman as capable of nurturing an 
infant as leading an army. 

Trivia: Vhonna and Madame Garah both share a rare fond 
ness for Turmishite apple and bloodberry pie (an 
extremely tart version of cherry pie). Vhonna also is the 
only person other than Garah who can call Essimuth 
"Old Bear" to his face and live. 

Madame Cattab 

Occupation: Boarding house owner & operator 

Locations: AQ2; AQ4, AQ14 

Description: Madame Garah is a middle-aged matron with 
her long graying hair usually kept up in a bun. While 
overweight, she is healthy and hearty, her green eyes 


twinkling in her rosy, oft-smiling face. She wears simple 
dresses and almost never takes her apron off. Though 
she has added much weight to her small frame (4' 11"), 
she still moves gracefully like the dancer she was. 

Personality: Madame Garah is a cheerful woman who, 
while quite unassuming and harmless, is unflappable in 
the face of any danger. She never gets flustered and 
hums songs to herself while she works. She has nerve 
and determination enough to rule whole countries, but 
is quite content to look after her own hearth and 
home. One southern wizard described her as a "tigress 
protecting her cubs and den" when she faced down a 
Red Wizard in her parlor, demanding he take his 
vendetta against one of her boarders elsewhere; "I'd 
never seen an Autharch so flustered -he knew he 
could blast her to dust, but I think her quiet confi 
dence surprised him more!" 

Trivia: She generates nicknames for her boarders and 
friends based on first impressions (which are often spot- 
on) such as "Secrets" (Kylia), "Scribbles" (Laran), and 
"Iron Rose" (Vhonna); generally, she calls people "dear" 
or "sweetheart," but if she uses a person's full name, she 
is most definitely angry or bothered. 







Hediz)k 

Occupation: Boarding house help, part-time cook 

Locations: AQ2; AQ7, AQ14 

Description: Hedrik is a tall, gangly lad of fourteen, his 
most recent height increase putting him at 5'10" tall 
and still growing! His skinny face has bold, squared fea 
tures that suggest a strength and solidity that the rest of 
his body has yet to catch up to. His coal-black hair is 
always tousled and in disarray, and he wears it at shoul 
der-length. His eyes are his most haunting feature, both 
eyes covered in a milk-white film that obscures his eye 
color and vision. He wears simple clothes of breeches 
and shirts, though he is meticulous and is never covered 
in dirt and dust. 

Personality /: Until he was adopted by Madame Garah, 
Hedrik was a sullen, angry young child who struck out 
at anything that threatened him. Since his blinding, 
he has calmed down and thrived in the care of his new 
mother, but he has an inner drive to prove himself that 
sometimes frightens people. Hedrik is headstrong, and 
has an insatiable need to finish any task he puts to 
himself. The boy is noticeably sharp of wit and mind, 
and often astonishes people many years his elder in 
Philosophers' Court. 

Trivia: Hedrik uses a staff to guide him a clear path, and he 
is often heard talking to it as if it were alive, though his 
mother swears it's a normal staff. 

RoWcek Itogeiziz 

Occupation: Imports merchant 

Locations: AQ6; AQ15, C3, C12, S8, S9, D18, D25 

Description: Rokkek Ingerr, the second to carry that name, 
is the spitting image of his father: An overweight man 
with a perpetual sheen of perspiration on his forehead 
and upper lip, he is fully bald with a gray goatee. His 
gray eyes constantly dart back and forth nervously, and 
he looks for all the world like an incompetent buffoon, 
a facade soon shattered when one does business with 
him. Rokkek overdresses in all the latest fashions popu 
lar with the nobility of the city; of late, this entails 
large plumed hats, short jackets and vests, and lacy 
shirts with tight breeches (a look none too flattering for 
the aging merchant). 

Personality: Rokkek Ingerr's favorite topic is himself, of that 
there is no doubt. Nor is there any question of his sec 
ond love: money. While pleasant enough in his dealings 
with people, Rokkek Ingerr is consumed with maintain 


ing his business and keeping himself and his wife in the 
matter to which they have grown accustomed. He tends 
to be a bit blunt, if not downright rude, to those he 
deems of lesser stature (beggars, mercenaries, 
dungsweepers), but he is kind enough to give coppers to 
street children. Like his father, unfortunately, he has a 
wandering eye (and hands) for the ladies, and spends his 
nights at the many festhalls about the city. Of late, he 
has become quite gruff and terse with everyone, and is 
rarely seen around his home at all. 

Trivia: Rokkek Ingerr has the absent-minded habit of con 
stantly flipping a gold coin, stopping only when eating 
or when involved in business. 

NfadfL JaLbuck 

Occupation: Halfling grocer 

Locations: AQ10; AQ16, C8, DIO, N60, $5, $15 

Description: Sporting a jet-black crewcut and golden nose 
ring, Nindil Jalbuck is one of the most distinctive 
half lings of the city (at least, to human eyes). He stands 
36" tall. His common clothing and grocer's apron do not 
disguise the knowing look of a joker and mischief maker 
in his sea-green eyes. When he does travel outside the 
city, he tends to wear a custom-fitted suit of chain mail 
with the Goldenfields emblem on it. 

Personality: While a joker and prankster to the core, Nindil 
is a good-natured, loyal, and trustworthy person. He is 
confident in himself and his abilities, and only loses his 
temper when someone is "talking down" to him, as if he 
were a child. The love he shares with his wife seems 
mutually based in humor (she calls him "Tartoes" or "my 
little hairy-footed ore," he calls her "Talldrink" and 
"Blondie") and passion (Nindil often hops up and 
fiercely kisses his wife, nonchalantly resuming his work 
and leaving her gasping for air). 

Trivia: Nindil is a cat lover, and his two pets Vixen (a 
female tabby) and Mugs (an amber-colored cat with 
white paws and face-"kinda the shade of southern 
beer") take care of any mice in his grocery storage. 

A1 .cebori KolaT 

Occupation: Wizard 

Locations: AQ8; AQ12, AQ16, $15, N32, N46, City of the 
Dead (wandering) 

Description: Alcedor Kolat is a hunchbacked, balding old 
man with a ring of white-gold hair above his ears and 
the nape of his neck. Though he appears well into his 
sixties, his brown eyes twinkle warmly and his smile is 



51 



engaging. His attire is most often disheveled gray 
robes with a powder blue overcloak; stains of various 
colors embellish his clothes, and the smell of brim 
stone and other arcane odors linger about him. 
Alcedor is one of the few aged and beardless mages 
known; he shaves, as a beard would be in his way 
while tinkering in the lab. 

Personality: Alcedor is the very picture of dichotomy: He 
appears disorganized and rumpled, but his mind is 
sharper than those half his age; while he seems aged and 
wise, his manners toward young women sometimes bor 
der on scandalous; though he has an apprentice and his 
familiar, he is best left alone to his work (since he rarely 
notices others are there while he works). Many think 
him absent-minded at first glance, but a better term is 
"distracted" due to the great magics and theories he 
works out in his head. 

Trivia: A frequent habit is to start a discussion with some 
one on some esoterica and wander away, answering and 
arguing with himself or his owl. Inquisitor; even so, 
many keep an ear open to his mutterings as he thinks 
out loud and many apprentice mages of the Watchful 
Order have learned much on magic in this way. 


Duhldnk KoldT 

Occupation: Wizard 

Locations: AQ8; AQ16, AQ20, $16, C15 

Description: Duhlark is a proud man of regal bearing, his 
long blond hair and long beard both braided. He wears 
brown robes with a bright red vest, adding a splash of 
color and setting off his russet-colored eyes. Despite 
their different bearings and ages, Duhlark and Alcedor 
look remarkably alike. 

Personality: Intense is the word for this Kolat brother, and it 
covers nearly every aspect of his life, from his magics 
and research to the way he talks and eats. Duhlark 
focuses on one thing at a time and only one thing; if he 
is wrestling with a thought, he won't even notice a tav 
ern brawl around him unless it disturbs him. His inten 
sity in all things is magnified if he's lost his temper, 
though; there are two stray dogs in Waterdeep that sim 
ply had the misfortune of being drunken mercenaries 
who fell onto his table while he ate. His gruff, somewhat 
stand-offish personality keeps him from making many 
friends, and he treasures those few he has greatly 
(though not so any could notice). Rumor places him 
quite often in the company of Lady Hlanta Melshimber, 
though he will not talk openly about her. 

Trivia: When Duhlark unleashes magic, he most often casts 
it in slightly nonstandard but highly visual ways; spells 
erupt as beams from his eyes or as a small illusory sprite 
that flies the spell to the target, etc. 

KyIU 

Occupation: Illusionist 

Locations: AQ3; AQ2, AQ7, AQ18, ? 

Description: This little gnome female looks like a fragile doll, 
her auburn hair and red robes never disheveled or out of 
place. Her face, often smiling and innocent, can be both 
childlike and serious well beyond her apparent years. She 
isn't considered attractive from a gnomish sense, as her 
features more closely resemble humans. Few ever get a 
good look at her, as she tends to move quickly and use illu 
sions to disguise herself and keep from being followed. 

Personality: Madame Garah's nickname of "Secrets" fits 
Kylia, as few get close enough to her to find out what 
she's really like. Overall, she is a pleasant woman, 
though a tad brusque, and she has a flair for the dramatic 
if using magic. Her demeanor is unassuming, almost 
meek, but those who know her sense that something 
fierce lurks just beneath the surface. 



Trivia: Kylia cannot resist using simple phantasmal force 
spells to punctuate her entrances and exits; her most 
common approach is the classic thunderclap and puff of 
smoke, though she's had some fun with a shimmering 
outline effect that coalesces into her normal form (some 
think she's developed a new teleport spell). 

Ess'imuTh LAsiys 

Occupation: Merchant, retired adventurer 

Locations: AQ1; AQ3, AQ14, AQ16, AQ20; SI, S8, S9, 
S15, S18, C21 

Description: Sometimes mistaken for a dwarf due to his 
height (and demeanor), Essimuth is a battle-scarred vet 
eran of many dungeons. A scruffy gray beard covers most 
of his facial scars save the long scar from chin to brow 
that runs under the eye patch over his right eye. He 
wears a cap to cover his bald head and the rest of his 
clothes are typical linen shirt and leather breeches. His 
right leg is missing below the knee, replaced by a peg 
leg. His clothes are very often covered with wood shav 
ings from his whittling and carving. 

Personality: Essimuth is an adventurer at heart, and his only 
exploits now are through his own stories and those of 
current heroes. He truly misses the excitement of the 
open road, but is content to while away his later years 
here in Waterdeep around family and friends. While his 
manner and tone are always quite gruff, there's a layer of 
mischief underneath when dealing with children and 
favored friends. He is extremely long-winded and can be 
a tad vindictive if not allowed to finish his stories; while 
seeming to ramble, Essimuth actually has distinct points 
to make - especially to adventurers "who would do best 
to take my advice, 'cuz if they don't, they'll only be fit in 
the gullet of a monster!" If people heed him and return 
to tell Essimuth their own escapades (embellishing how 
his advice saved them . . . ), they'll make a valuable and 
wise friend for life. Nothing hurts Essimuth more than 
disrespect for his experience; "Even though I'm past my 
prime, don't think I can't teach you whippersnappers a 
lesson or three!" 

Trivia: Essimuth owns three elaborately carved peg legs. 
His usual leg looks like an owlbear holding up his leg 
with its arms and shoulders; for more formal occasions, 
he has a duskwood leg carved with the shield and coat 
of arms of Waterdeep; and for winter he has an ivory leg 
carved like a rearing white dragon (the wings becoming 
the top, of the leg) with grooves for better traction on 



BridSJTd MysjVosj 

Occupation: Apprentice Wizard 
Locations: AQ8; AQ5, AQ9, AQ16, $21, C15 
Description: Branta is a highly recognizable young woman 
and easily marked as a wizard: Her pupilless blue eyes 
match the bright azure scarves she wears over her bald 
head. Her white and blue robes tend to be loose and 
open-bodiced, tailored to complement her thin figure. 
She has her mother's soft, rosy features and medium 
height and her father's friendly demeanor. 

Personality: Branta is a highly focused and intelligent young 
woman with an inner drive to succeed at what she sets 
as her goal. She speaks in a formal manner and an even 
tone, but if excited or emotional, she talks fast and 
accentuates her words sharply. While friendly to all, she 
has become like the Kolat brothers, distracted by things 
beyond most peoples' knowledge; that, coupled with her 
odd looks, causes people to avoid her (including her 
elder brother Tomed and his wife). 

Trivia: While her eyes have no special powers beyond nor 
mal human eyes, they do reflect light like a cat's, causing 
them to glow in dim light. 


ice and snow. 




Olophlto 

Occupation: Watch Senior Civilar 

Locations: AQ8; Adventurers' Quarter, T15, C5, C32 

Description: Olophin is a dusky-skinned Calishite with jet- 
black curly hair and amber eyes. While he is used to the 
temperatures here, Olophin always wears more clothes 
than natives, his cloak almost always present. He wears 
a few rings and gold earrings; his most unique earring 
has a king's tear dangling from a platinum chain, a gift 
from a recent visit by his father. 

Personality: Olophin has grown more wary of strangers and 
openly-friendly folk in his decade in the North, finding 
many as deceitful and sneaky as the desert nomads of 
Calimshan. He is always polite, his deep voice demand 
ing respect and attention from any audience. While he 
is willing to let the retired adventurers police them 
selves, he makes sure they understand where their duties 
end and the watch's responsibilities begin. Olophin is a 
staunch friend to those who are loyal to him, but those 
who cross him find he holds long grudges and patiently 
gains fitting and subtle revenge. 

Trivia: A steel ring on Olophin's right hand bears the 
emblem of Anachtyr (the scales of Justice balanced on 
the point of a long sword). Many rogues hit by Olophin 
bear this ring's imprint on their jaws for a few days as 
reminders to stay out of trouble or risk harsher justice. 

Land Bkosjsosj PbauLkohJ 

Occupation: Caravan organizer, minor noble (Cormyr) 

Locations: AQ17; N59, C15. (Formerly) AQ14, T42, S5, 
S13, D31. 

Description: The aging Lord Bronson Phaulkon still has a 
full head of jet-black hair and is normally clean-shaven 
(though he hasn't shaved since his wife's death and tem 
porarily has a patchy beard). His once-sparkling blue 
eyes are now quite glum, and his regal and trim frame is 
gaining a bit of a paunch with a back bowed from grief. 
Where he once only smoked in the evenings, the lord is 
now constantly surrounded by an aura of pipe smoke, his 
clothes gathering a yellowish-brown haze on them. 
Personality: Lord Phaulkon used to be an animated giant 
of a man, proud of his appearance, his business, and his 
family. His wife's death shattered him, leaving him an 
impatient grouch, snapping at anything that displeases 
him. Despite the stress and his grief, he is still honorable 
and constantly curious about other people; he is simply 
no longer the naive and trusting soul he once was and 


his curiosity now borders on nosiness as he wishes to 
know everything about whom he deals with before trust 
ing them. 

Trivia: People used to set schedules by the regular walks 
Lord Phaulkon and his wife would make from Adven 
turers' Quarter to the Gull Leap and back each after 
noon; he hasn't been back to it since she died. 

L&&y JenyTh Phdulkosj 

Occupation: Former idle noble; now missing 

Locations: Unknown; last seen in Luskan en route to 
Mirabar. 

Description: Jeryth, a fashion plate of Waterdeep, was a per 
son never seen with a hair out of place or a wrinkle in 
any clothing. She always arranged her long blonde hair 
in elaborate coiffures, and she wore many green and gold 
outfits to match her eyes and hair. Her use of cosmetics 
and perfumes was excessive, always trailing a cloying 
cloud of fragrance. When last seen by anyone, she was 
wearing travel garments of green suede and black 
leather. 

Personality: Jeryth was a typical young noblewoman of 
Waterdeep: vain, arrogant, and utterly frivolous in her 
interests of only the next good party. Despite her faults, 
many liked her and respected for her forthrightness and 
honesty in their dealings with her, provided they coulci 
get and keep her attention. 

Trivia: Jeryth has a habit of idly toying with her hair, twist 
ing a length of it around her fingers playfully. 

Raymid 

Occupation: Watch patrolman 

Locations: AQ9; AQ16, $9, S9, T13, Southern Ward 

Description: Raymid is a short, burly little man with long 
black hair pulled back into a ponytail. He is clean 
shaven and meticulous about his appearance, his face, 
posture, and general body language always set as tense as 
a coiled spring. While most often found in his watch 
uniform, his off-duty clothes are all black, from loose 
linen shirts to black leather pants and boots, his pen 
dant providing the only change of color. 

Personality: Raymid is a man so business-minded and blunt 
that few bother to get to know him. He is inscrutable 
and has a stony stare that many card players envy. 
Raymid does have a sense of humor, dry and subtle 
though it is, but prefers to let Clion have all the jokes; 
he keeps his attention focused on the matters at hand. 







Trivia: Raymid always wears a solid silver pendant of 
Mielikki's unicorn head symbol, a gift from his dead 
mother and, he believes, a good luck charm. Raymid has 
a habit of only speaking if directly spoken to, and has 
coerced many into confessing under the silent, forbid 
ding pressure of his stare. Raymid grows quiet when 
Clion jokes about women; the only woman who makes 
Raymid lose his composure is Shalara, Kappiyan Flur- 
mastyr's apprentice. 

S xrvyx 

Occupation: Watch-wizard 

Locations: AQ9; AQ5, AQ16, $21, C15, wanders Southern 
& Dock Wards 

Description: Years of scowls and frowning have wrinkled 
and prematurely aged Sarya's round face. Still relatively 
young, she appears older in her robes or her watch uni 
form, keeping her brown hair severely pulled back into a 
tight bun. Her blue eyes are best described as icy in color 
and intensity. A smile from Sarya, generally thin and 
tight, usually leads to some painful exercise of magic 
upon some lawbreaker. 

Personality: Selfish and openly scornful of others, Sarya is 
an unpleasant person to be around. She views anyone 
who cannot use magic as beneath her notice and only 
deigns to deal with those she has to (such as shopkeep 
ers and her superiors in the watch). When forced to 
confront someone, she is brusque but with a veneer of 
politeness, like a child forced into apologizing+ She is a 
loner, only in the Adventurers' Quarter when on duty; 
she keeps rooms in southern Castle Ward, her neighbors 
hardly seeing her save when she leaves her studies for 
meals. 

Trivia: In a manner similar to eastern wizards from Thay or 
Mulhorand, Sarya's forearms are tattooed in mystical 
patterns that glow when she casts spells; the designs are 
her own but were done down in Dock Ward. 

BLAkawTAR Tag on 

Occupation: Watch-wizard 

Locations: AQ9; AQ5, AQ16, $21, C4, C15, New Olamn 

Description: Blakantar Tagon is a tall young man with 
chestnut brown hair and eyes. He wears a distinctive 
headband of silver with a carved onyx sigil centered on 
his forehead. He has a wiry build and strength with the 
grace and walk of a rogue. He keeps himself and his 
clothes very clean, using cantrips to keep his clothes 
freshly pressed. When off duty, Blakantar wears tailored, 


costly clothes of black and red (his most frequent outfit 
is a scarlet shirt, a black vest, black pants, and a black 
beret with a small symbol of Azuth). 

Personality: Words to describe Blakantar often fall short; his 
approach to life is to focus on having fun! The young 
man is flippant, bold, and seemingly without fear. Confi 
dence exudes from him, but he cloaks it in self-effacing 
humor. Above all, he is genuine in his warmth and 
affection for women and men alike. Those who say he 
isn't a serious mage don't see him studying late in the 
libraries at New Olamn, though his studies are balanced 
by revelry at the more exclusive noble galas. Many 
women try to catch his attentions, but none seem to 
hold his interest. 

Trivia: Blakantar is becoming known as "the Laughing 
Mage," as he gets easily amused when casting spells and 
apprehending foes; Blakantar often runs circles around 
his suspects (due to magical boots), playing games of tag 
with armed foes. Arrests by the "Laughing Mage" are 
often comical spectacles that many (except for those 
apprehended) talk about for days; Olophin isn't thrilled 
with his methods, but Blakantar's arrest record is good. 

Terc.rc.esk 

Occupation: Watch armar 

Locations: AQ9; AQ12, AQ14, AQ18 

Description: Terresk is a tall, forbidding half-ore with fear 
some features. He is very conscious of his looks, and 
wears a hood to keep much of his face hidden; enlarged 
lower canines betray his orcish lineage. He wears a scale 
mail mask over the severely scarred left side of his face. 
Terresk wears black leather gloves at all times and is 
never out of uniform (if he's off duty, he's not far from 
the guardpost). He walks hunched over but, if con 
fronted by an enemy, his shoulders straighten and his 
full height (7'!) surprises many. 

Personality: Belying a terrifying appearance, Terresk is a 
quiet, almost bashful man who blushes at the mere hint 
of a compliment from a lady and beams proudly when 
praised by men. Almost childlike in his simplicity, Ter 
resk is a kind-hearted lummox who watches out for his 
friends and "the little guy." When he laughs, his deep- 
throated guffaws can be heard easily over any din, and if 
he's in a fight, his bellows serve far better warning than 
his warning horn. Above all else, people who like to 
keep themselves intact don't mention the touch of ore 
blood in him; he hates his heritage and goes into a fury 
should anyone comment on his tusks. 





55 


Trivia: Terresk wears a gold bracer on his right forearm -a 
Manshakan fighting slave's manacle. 

"WaTcbe<3" Tb)sTLebuck 

Locations: AQ14; all over Southern & Trades Ward 

Description: A rare albino halfling. Watcher has pure white 
hair (head, eyebrows, feet, and mutton chop sideburns) 
and pink eyes. He wears browns and yellows as predomi 
nant colors, his clothes carefully tailored and impeccable. 

Personality: Having mellowed over the years. Watcher is an 
attentive, sharp individual with an eye for subtle detail. 
Even when things are hectic and the Safehaven is 
crowded to capacity. Watcher can single out specific 
individuals that are about to cause trouble and stop it 
before it starts. He is a true diplomat, keeping calm in 
the most hectic of situations. He is, unlike many 
halflings, not pushy or nosy; he'll learn just as much 
from people by being quiet and watching rather than 
badgering them with questions (besides, a quiet thief 
gains more than a noisy one). Watcher is loyal to his 
friends, but take care when he gives his word: chances 
are it's carefully phrased with a catch or two. . . . 

Trivia: Watcher has the ability to whistle nearly any tune 
he hears; his whistles tend to signal his comrades 
(whether in a dungeon or the Safehaven) of some hid 
den trouble. 



NPCs of M)nior 
ItoTeResT 

Aomawt 

This bustling, rail-thin woman of advancing years is the 
head laundress and shop owner of Amrani's Laundry. She is 
an old friend of Madame Garah, and the two often can be 
found gossiping while Teena, Laurel, and Lauhren, 
Amrani's hired girls, tend to the laundry. 

SiLaTe DeepbeU. 

Travis & Vhonna Deepdell's infant daughter is a beautiful 
baby with her mother's chestnut hair and brown eyes. To 
everyone's surprise, she is also a half-elf, her ears and fea 
tures even more distinctly pointed than her father's. 
Though she can be fussy at times, she takes after her father 
and makes little to no noise. 

Kibeiz Ebeizick 

The elderly man who runs Helm's Hall still holds himself 
with noble bearing, though he is more apt to carry a night 
mare-plagued child at night than a sword. Kiber has not 
often raised a weapon since the Time of Troubles, and then 
only to protect his charges. He still tells stories to the chil 
dren and others of his noble adventures with a distant 
twinkle in his eye. He does, however, get angry with 
patrons of Tymora's Blessing when they attempt to teach 
the kids tavern games and crude mercenary songs. 

En.)k 

Formerly an orphan of Helm's Hall, Erik is the adopted 
apprentice of Hammerhand Krabbellor. At age fourteen, he 
has proven to be a gifted silversmith, and his own designs 
have been praised as having "the excellent workmanship of 
dwarven material with a nimbleness and finesse like elven 
work." His specialty, however, is silver-plating weapons, and 
one that the boy takes too well to, causing Hammerhand to 
worry about him running off to become an adventurer. 

Hemmenem 

This successful horse merchant and stables owner was once 
a street beggar in the alleys of Trades Ward. He learned his 
trade by hiring out with caravans and watching the drovers 
at Caravan Court. The clean-shaven, chocolate-brown- 
haired man now runs a profitable stable and provides cheap 
lodgings for those down on their luck, as he once was. He 






spends much time around the Beer Golem tavern, vying for 
the attentions of Cial Myntion. 

Aizicl HenemeT 

Ariel is one of the barmaids at the Safehaven, along with 
her siblings. She bears a remarkable resemblance to 
Princess Alusair of Cormyr, so much so that mercenaries 
attempted to kidnap her three times in years past when the 
princess was missing. She doesn't know why they are so 
alike, nor does she care. She simply wants to lead a good 
life and eventually raise a family; she is bitter about adven 
turers-both her parents were killed while adventuring 
with the Knights of the Sword Coast -and she wants noth 
ing to do with such a life. 

Doyodiz HenemeT 

Donar, the young stableboy at the Safehaven Inn, takes 
after his father, or so Vhonna Deepdell says; Donar doesn't 
remember much of either of his parents. He is quite the 
troublemaker, always setting pranks on Bannor and others, 
Moreso than either of his sisters, he accepts all the Safe 
haven employees as his extended family and loves to hear 
stories about his father in his adventuring days. Donar's 
natural agility is quite remarkable, and Essimuth attests 
that "that boy could be one great sneak thief and skulk for 
the watch if only he'd sit still and focus on something!" 

EdnidhJhJd HeRemeT 

This vivacious, 16-year-old, raven-haired beauty is an excel 
lent cook and an outrageous flirt, much to the chagrin of her 
fiance, Bannor Karralo (though there is no doubt as to where 
her loyalties lie to any who know her). The only one of the 
Heremet children not to worship Lathander as their parents 
did, Edriana openly praises Sune and always acts as if she 
hasn't a care in the world. She always wears a platinum and 
emerald ring given to her by her father when she was a child. 

ImeRRa lug ckk 

Imerra, the Amnite wife of Rokkek Ingerr, dearly loves 
Waterdeep and its hustle and bustle, but she doesn't adapt 
well to the commerce and leaves that to her husband. She 
loves music and is attempting to learn to play the harp 
("with some small progress . . .," Arkiem proffers). As it is, 
she spends much time at the Safehaven Inn watching 
Arkiem every night when he plays there. With her hus 
band growing more distant and his business flagging, she 
spends even more time drinking to forget her troubles. 


CdizsobJ iMwes 

This boisterous man's voice always booms loudly when he 
talks -and he talks constantly! A giant in self-promotion 
as well as girth, Carson takes every opportunity to plug his 
Daily Trumpet broadsheet, "just making sure everyone 
knows the news of the day" (and the news behind it, 
adding his own editorial pronouncements). If he isn't gos 
siping or bragging, this self-aggrandizing bald man cracks 
the worst puns ever heard in Waterdeep. Despite all this, 
he is a fair employer who pays his staff well; their only com 
plaint is his insistence on "adding that final touch to the 
facts in the story, just to spice it up some" that continually 
lands the Trumpet staff in trouble. 

JdffdK 

A former Southern slave from Ithmong, Jaffar found free 
dom when Rokkek Ingerr Sr. bought him as a boy and 
brought him to Waterdeep. Indebted to the Ingerrs, Jaffar 
stays with the family to this day, despite his dislike of 
Rokkek Jr. By working at the elder Ingerr's side, Jaffar 
knows more about the business than Rokkek Jr. does. 
Away from his work and living quarters at the Ingerr 
warehouses, Jaffar can often be found telling stories and 
fables at Philosopher's Square and the Beer Golem tavern. 
He and Sarya are friends, and he's found himself falling in 
love with her (though she hasn't noticed). 

Scyph)d Jdibuck 

The human wife of Nindil Jalbuck, this tall, lithe blonde 
has a laugh that sounds like ringing bells. She was a mid 
wife from Sespech, and now simply relies on her herbalist's 
knowledge; Scyphia can identify any plant or herb of the 
Realms by either sight, smell, or taste. She is a ranking 
member with the Guild of Apothecaries & Physicians, and 
often finds herself getting into philosophical arguments 
over healing with Rachel Arren, who believes true healing 
only comes from the gods. 

BdSJSJorz Kdfztzdlo 

Bannor is the barkeep at the Safehaven Inn. Many think 
he is an adventurer like the owners, his barrel chest and 
huge arms fit for a fighter, though the 21-year-old has only 
hefted mugs and kegs in his lifetime, not swords. He is 
betrothed to Edrianna Heremet and they plan to marry 
next Midsummer Night at the Plinth. He is happy here and 
works well with all the staff, though he and Watcher irri 
tate each other over how to organize the cellar stores. 




57 




Kb aos 

Formerly the stock boy working under Essimuth Lanys at 
his equipment shop, Kharkos was recently gifted with a suit 
of chain mail, a long sword, and a full pack as an eigh 
teenth birthday gift. With that, and his training by Travis 
Deepdell, Kharkos is seeking companions to adventure out 
side the city as the new Knights of the Sword Coast (with 
the blessing of his elders). 

"HammeRbawd" KRAbbeLLoR 

Krabbellor is a dwarven silversmith of some note. His left 
hand is effectively a large iron hammer, hence his name; 
when just a child and apprentice to his father, a mishap at 
the forge left his hand coated in iron and crippled, so they 
fashioned a hammer of it to give it use. He has heard the 
tales that Mithral Hall is open again and longs to go there, 
but is waiting until his apprentice can inherit his business. 

Aram a Lamy$ 

Arana is Vhonna Deepdell's thirteen-year-old daughter by 
her first husband, the paladin Barkess Lanys. Currently a 
tomboy growing into a young woman, she is a lamplighter 
for the Guild of Chandlers & Lamplighters, and she is 
apprenticing herself to an older chandler to learn that trade 
as well. She has no desire for adventure, being a little timid 
and shy, but she does find her mother's and uncle's stories 
exciting. She fell in love with Kharkos over a year ago, but 
he hasn't noticed her at all and she feels her world will end 
when he leaves on an adventure. 

LaRaM 

A sallow-skinned native of Unther, Laran escaped from 
slavery long ago and fled to the west. He fell in with a 
group of adventurers who taught him languages, reading, 
and writing; thirteen years ago, Laran came to Waterdeep 
to stay, his comrades moving on without him. He worked 
with the Surveyors', Map-, & Chartmakers' Guild in the 
Map House for seven years and still keeps in close con 
tact with them. Laran opened his own map shop four 
years ago and he and his staff of three chartmakers have 
been quite successful. Laran's goal, after seeing the won 
ders of much of Faerun, is to create a map of all of Toril; 
unfortunately, the information on the lands west of the 
Moonshaes and south of Zakhara is sparse (his illumi 
nated map of what is confirmed is quite impressive and 
drawing many bids, but it isn't for sale). 


LaubReM 

Lauhren was a troubled young girl, the fifth of seven chil 
dren in a dockworker's family, and she worked for Amrani 
in the laundry. Rachel Arren took a liking to the lonely 
young girl and taught her Lima's blessings of self-worth and 
happiness; they were both surprised one day during a prayer 
when Lauhren unwittingly cast a light spell. Taking it as a 
sign, Lauhren has her calling with the goddess Lliira and 
plans to abandon her dreary life with little regret and join 
Kharkos' band of intrepid heroes. 

ALek LeMteR 

Alek is a recent arrival to Waterdeep from Amn, entering 
the city with a caravan and setting up Waukeen's Wares, 
his moneylending and pawn shop, in less than a month. 
While some suspect him of underhanded deals and shifty 
business, he was investigated by the watch twice and noth 
ing illegal could be connected to him. He spends his 
evenings at the Thirsty Throat tavern in Dock Ward. 

CUI MysjVohJ 

The third child of Quallos and Miri Myntion is a confident 
woman with a reputation for outdrinking any human who 
cares to test her, and many do. Quallos doesn't mind as it 
gets people to buy more beer, though Miri worries that her 
daughter is still too much of a tomboy. Secondly, she has a 
habit of breaking fingers (and noses) of men whose hands 
stray too far while she's serving drinks. 

LuTbeR MysjVosj 

Luther is Quallos' and Miri's eldest son, formerly a watch 
member until a year ago. He began ardently worshipping 
Tyr and became "a holy warrior in a just cause," leaving 
Waterdeep on a quest to right wrongs as a paladin. Since 
then, he has disappeared and no one knows his fate. 

M)r) Mym'Dom 

Miri is a fun, bouncy little woman who seems to have end 
less energy. Her brown hair kept short, she favors long, 
elaborate earrings that are the style in the south. She 
enjoys creating new recipes and trying them out on willing 
customers; be warned, though -Miri likes her dishes very 
spicy and hot! Her latest - dubbed "Fireball Beef" by Duh- 
lark Kolat as he gasped for water -is a favorite with cara 
van folk and the watch throughout Southern Ward as a 
meal that keeps you warm for hours. 







Qudllos Myto Tiobo 

This overweight, balding man is friendly, courteous, but 
just a bit pushy by most Northerners' standards; he deems 
his nosiness and demeanor "the friendliness of the South." 
His enormous moustache connects to his sideburns, contin 
uing the circle of hair about his head; rare is it when Qual- 
los is found without a mug of beer, suds on his moustache, 
"testing -simply testing the latest brew." He is growing in 
influence among the Vintners', Distillers', and Brewers' 
Guild, and is rumored to be the new Guild Master, should 
the ailing Razaar Slissin step down. 

Tomed MynjDom 

Tomed is the bartender, stablemaster, and bouncer of the 
Beer Golem tavern. A slow but steady man, he is politely 
described as "reliable." Though his father handles all guild 
business, he handles deliveries, should a noble gala need 
some of the Beer Golem's ales. On one delivery, he met his 
wife, Khyrri, a servant of the Snome household. She is due 
to deliver their first child any day soon and is bedridden, so 
Tomed is visibly nervous beyond his norm. 

Ocuew 

His hair permanently green (see "Trolltidings" in the next 
chapter), Owen is a 17-year-old boy with a plan. For years, 
the bullies of Helm's Hall tormented him and he learned 
quickly to fight fire with fire, becoming quite adept at 
unarmed combat. Since Trolltide and his changes, he wants 
to get away from the city and see the countryside. Most of 
all, he wants to make some friends that won't make fun of 
his hair. 

ILLU & RUTb Perzhkes 

An older couple, Illia and Riath work for and live with the 
Jalbucks. They all met at Goldenfields years before, when 
Nindil saved Riath from a bulette attack. In addition, Illia's 
only child was delivered by Scyphia; the child still lives and 
works as a border guard at Goldenfields. Illia and Riath are 
both lifelong worshippers of Chauntea who simply tired of 
the farming and joined the couple they owed so much to in 
Waterdeep. While Nindil insists they are not his servants, 
Illia and Riath tend to the household chores and other duties. 
Madame Garah describes the situation thusly: "Those two 
look on the little guy and Scyphia like they were their kids; it 
goes beyond paying a debt or simply serving someone - 
they're part of your life and that's that." 


l&by Mdiz)e PhdulkohJ 

The elder daughter of Lord Phaulkon, Marie has always 
been the wildest of children. Despite a cultured, "ladylike" 
upbringing, she horrified her mother with wild escapades 
and excesses with the young nobles of North Ward (and, 
rumor has it, sailors in Dock Ward). Now, with her sister 
and mother gone, she rebels even more in excesses to avoid 
her father and his suffocating attentions; of late, Marie has 
four suitors among the commoners and noble men of 
Waterdeep and she is faithful to none. 

PIaTkak) 

Piatran is a native Waterdhavian who prides himself on 
providing people with any clothing they desire at low 
prices. "What for I need money? I made my fortunes, now I 
wish to create for people!" (Deduct 10% from Players' 
Handbook prices for all normal clothing.) He prefers hag 
gling over prices and allegedly can obtain magical cloaks! 
He will, of course, attempt to convince buyers to pursue 
the latest clothing trends of the nobles. 

TridhsiT 

By far the easiest recognized figure in Southern Ward, 
Trahnt is a male hill giant, sporting a full, bushy, black 
beard and a short crewcut. He is usually clad in custom- 
cut oversized jerkins and breeches with a studded leather 
vest. Despite his lumbering fearsome appearance, Trahnt's 
blue eyes are vibrant and happy above an enormous 
hooked nose. He keeps himself far cleaner than do most 
giants, and he is quite friendly and law-abiding. He is the 
first recruit of the watch if they need immediate rein 
forcements in the area. He owns and tends Tymora's 
Blessing, a tavern that caters to a rough-and-tumble 
crowd. If not working here, he can often be found next 
door at Helm's Hall, reading to the children or playing 
with them, giving rides on his back. 






Ch&pten Six* 

Scetoes St 

Subibnies 


ou've seen the Adventurers' Quarter, met its inhabitants, and now it's 
time to set all the pieces into motion and bring the campaign to life! 
This chapter contains a number of scenes that player characters can 
stumble into and use to start their adventures. After each scene is an 
"On Second Glance" section, which provides information if the charac 
ters focus on a particular person or happening. These scenes can jumpstart adventures 
of the players' own making, and they also intersect some of the main plots and time 
lines given to the DM in the Campaign Guide to the City book. One scenario in particu 
lar, the "Return of the Blue Axe," is designed as a campaign starter, not just an 
adventure hook, to give PCs some initial local notoriety and magic. 

Such a Deal... 

T he first spring rains have hit the city with a vengeance, seeming more like the last 
of the winter storms. Weather is so bad it's even kept most of the street vendors 
indoors. The streets are awash with the excessive rain, and the alleys and byways of 
Adventurers' Quarter are slippery and treacherous with mud. 

Thoroughly drenched, you enter the Beer Golem tavern to seek shelter from the tor 
rential rains and find it relatively full. Though the tavern is warm, the floors are wet 
and muddied, and your sodden boots draw a resigned sigh from Miri behind the bar. 
The tables and booths are filled with patrons, drinking while their cloaks dry on the 
hearth. There are a few stools along the bar, and Miri takes your orders. 

A blue haze is centered in the far corner by the fire, a card game of high stakes in 
progress. Nindil Jalbuck is in the thick of it, his winnings piled nearly above his line of 
sight. Piatran also sits among the gamblers, his winnings meager in comparison, but 
respectable; his cigar seems to generate all of the smoke. You don't know the others, but 
none seem too happy of the game's outcome. While two look like standard mercenaries, 
the other is well dressed and obviously of some wealth. 

Kharkos and Erik are seated at a table, raptly listening to one of Essimuth's long- 
winded tales of dungeons long-gone. Nearby, Olophin the watch civilar is sitting alone 
and eating a bowl of owlbear stew, apparently off duty and in regular clothes. 

Down the bar, Hemmerem sits chatting with Arum Tarm, his manner cool, 
though the young noble's temper seems to be rising with his volume as they argue 
about some horses. Alek Lenter comes out of a booth and up to the bar, seeming 
quite pleased with himself; he's buying three tankards of Old One Eye, though you 
can't quite see his companions. Quallos comes out from the back room, shaking 
hands with a hooded stranger; Miri flashes a hurt look at him as she delivers your 
order and slams your tankards and plates down, spilling a tankard. 












On Second Glance. . . 

• Olophin is keeping a sharp eye on the card game, espe 
cially the wealthy man. 

• Cial and Miri seem sullen, banging things around and 
not looking at anyone. 

• Essimuth's story concerns treasure in Undermountain's 
upper levels that he and Travis Deepdell never managed 
to retrieve, since they were forced to flee from its 
guardian (a behir). He still has a crude map leading to 
the southwestern quadrant of Level Two. 

TnolVtt&togs 

T he children are out in force this year for Trolltide, and 
this year some children have special magical necklaces 
that allow them to growl just like trolls. Throughout the day, 
children from Helm's Hall and all over the city interrupt 
meals and discussions (though never disrupting business) with 
their growls and pranks until they get their rewards. Some 
older children have taken to pursuing other kids and using the 
necklaces from hiding, frightening them with low growls. 

At sunset, the city begins preparing for the night ahead 
and everyone returns home to dinner. A few hours after sun 
down, after a good meal at Madame Garah's, you and yours 
head out for a night on the town. Arana Lanys comes fleeing 
down Slop Street, colliding with one of the player characters. 
She is in mortal fear, has dropped her lantern behind her, and 
is nursing a bloodied arm. "Save me from the trolls! Keep 
them away from me!" she screams, cowering close to the PC. 
From behind her down Fishwife Alley come five boys, two of 
whom you recognize from Helm's Hall. They all still wear the 
"troll growl" necklaces, but their hair and skin are a sickening 
green hue-they are turning into trolls! 

On Second Glance . .. 

• All the necklaces you've seen today have been minor 
items made of twine and polished wood, tight around the 
neck; the necklaces worn by the boys are of polished 
wood with light metal chains. 

• The boys are acting like trolls, sniffing at their prey and 
circling. 

• While the other necklaces allowed children to growl 
about once an hour, these are operating nonstop. 

• Arana's wound looks like multiple scratches and bites, as 
if the boys attacked just like trolls! 

• In the distance, you hear watch horns sounding in multi 
ple areas of the city, so this may not be isolated! 


ReTuKKJ of 
the Blue Kye 

O ne night in late Marpenoth, Arkiem Arren performs a 
ballad in the taproom of the Safehaven Inn entitled 
"The Last Stand of the Allies of Azuredge." A tragedy of 
heroes from the Time of Troubles, the song tells of a quartet of 
heroes who fell before the hordes of Myrkul in Waterdeep. As 
Arkiem nears the final stanza, lamenting the fall of Beryghon 
the warrior and the mysterious disappearance of his magical 
axe Azuredge, the door to the street slams open, a chill wind 
filling the room with mist. The music and mist seem to magi 
cally coalesce, and a shining blue battleaxe forms out of the 
air, floating above the bard's head. His eyes filled with blue 
magic, Arkiem sings a new stanza for the ballad: 

"And Azuredge didst see defeat 'gainst Myriad's horde that 
day 

Despite her giv'n enforged task of creatures foul to slay. 

She moved herself through realms afar to ward off evil's 
touch, 

Arriving back in wizards' halls fore evil gained o'ermuch. 

Nozv heroes new may raise spirit and blades, and take this 
solemn pledge, 

Shouldst one be worthy of the cause, one shall wield 
Azuredge." 

Upon the completion of the song, the glowing magical 
axe flies across the room and embeds itself into the main 
support pillar of the inn. 

On Second Glance. . . 

• The player characters, all within the inn for this event, can 
watch many strong warriors attempt to pull the axe from the 
post and fail. Any magical attempts fail as well. If the players 
(and the DM) wish to, one of their number (the strongest or 
most capable fighter) pulls the axe free, proclaiming the 
character and friends as the Company of the Blue Axe. 

• Arkiem seems as surprised as everyone else, but he stud 
ies the axe like he knows something of it. Looking about 
the Safehaven's taproom while others try to pull it free, 
you note that none of the older adventurers even 
approach the axe, though Alcedor Kolat is getting in the 
way of folks as he stares closely at it, furiously scribbling 
down something on a scrap of parchment. 

DM Note I: If the PCs already have an adventuring 
company name and origin, this scene and tale can create a 
new group of NPC adventurers to parallel the PCs' 
exploits, giving them known potential allies or rivals in 





61 



addition to the new Knights of the Sword Coast. Azuredge 
remains in the taproom for months until an NPC comes 
forward to claim the axe and the company name. 

DM Note II: Azuredge's powers are mysterious and 
potent, as mentioned in the ballad. Only the DM knows 
the full powers of Azuredge, and the player characters can 
only learn them over time, as all attempts to exactly iden 
tify her powers are resisted. The blue axe is a powerful arti 
fact of enigmatic origins -some say it was enchanted by 
Netherese wizards, Alcedor muttered something he once 
heard about it being forged by the breath of a blue dragon, 
and many others swear that it once swung from the belt of 
Baeron, the second Open Lord of Waterdeep! All the char 
acters (and its wielder) know for sure is this: 

• All of the player characters in the group were sur 
rounded by a blue glow when the axe was withdrawn, 
and when it died down, they each found a piece of jew- 
lery with a blue axe (earrings, belt buckle, choker, 
signet rings, etc.) on themselves; 

• The axe could generate blue light when mentally com 
manded by its wielder, and glowed bright as day in the 
presence of undead or evil creatures from other planes; 

• The wielder of Azuredge can sometimes faintly hear a 
female voice warning him or her of failed duty when he 
or she leaves the City of Splendors. 



On the KNlfe's Edge 

Y ou and your comrades are passing by the Daily Trumpet 
building just as it closes for the evening; Gath, one of the 
scribes, is visibly angry, as is Carson Innes, the editor, and they 
are furiously whispering at each other in argument. When they 
notice you, they stalk off their separate ways; almost as an after 
thought, Carson turns and calls to the scribe, "And be sure to 
get back here soon to finish setting up tomorrow's folio! I'll not 
be late due to your laziness!" The scribe enters the Beer Golem 
tavern, shooting a look of intense hatred at Carson's back, 
while Carson himself heads for the Safehaven Inn. 

If you approach either man, they accept your company 
only on the promise of a meal. Soon into the meal, they 
will complain about how hard it is to work at the Trumpet. 
Gath complains about his boss' "editorial license" and his 
constant harping about "exciting reading" over objective, 
factual reporting. Carson grumbles about the lack of vision 
in his underlings, and how his own staff threatens to ruin 
his broadsheet. Both end their tirades with the angry 
phrase "It makes one mad enough to . . ." 

After a few hours of wandering the city, you head back 
to the Adventurers' Quarter. The door to the Daily Trum 
pet building is slightly ajar, and through its windows you 
can see movement inside, but no lights are on. 

On S ecoxib GLANce. . . 

• Inside the Daily Trumpet are the Buckleswashers (see Chap 
ter Five of Who's Who in Waterdeep), busily tearing up the 
place. If anyone enters with a light, the office and printing 
room on the first floor are absolute messes, with papers 
strewn everywhere. The four visible halflings are immedi 
ately armed and ready for any intruders. Osco lurks on the 
ceiling above the door, and calls out, "A-ha! The assassins 
return to see their handiwork! We've flushed out the Knife's 
Edge, people; now let's take them in for the watch!" 

• Carson Innes had only left the Safehaven for a period of 
two hours after his dinner, when he went to his office to 
finish some work. He left and returned to the inn, and he 
says Gath was at his desk working when he left. 

• Gath's desk is on the second floor scribes' area. It is a 
mess (through no doing of the Buckleswashers), with an 
ink bottle spilled all over the floor. The edge of the desk 
is scarred and scraped, like something clawed from edge 
to the center of the desk, and there is some blood within 
those scrapes. Gath is nowhere to be found. 




The AdveNTurzerz's Uf e 

A side from the adventure starter scenes in this chapter, 
you and your fledgling heroes might still wonder how 
to get some other escapades rolling. Well, this is the fantasy 
city originally discovered by the Company of Crazed Ven 
turers on "aimless see-what-trouble-we-can-find strolls," 
and there are many ways to find adventure, even from the 
most unexpected of spots. 

AdvewTuRes pnom the Tavonsis 

The best places to start are the perennial sources of many 
fantasy adventures: the inns and taverns. Where better to 
meet with folk of all types at any time of day or night? 
Whenever you need to find a person, look to the taverns 
and inns first, just as the city watch does. Always keep on 
good terms with the barkeeps and the servants at such 
establishments; for the cost of good tips and regular patron 
age, they can be your eyes and ears (as well as your protec 
tors, when you need a hideout). 

With the constant chatter of the patrons, it's always possi 
ble to overhear something that might interest you and lead 
to adventures. Be wary, though -tavern talk is rarely a reli 
able source, and many heroes are laid low by believing some 
misinformation. Warnings (whispered from the hidden 
patron in the booth behind you) can serve to initiate the 
wildest of quests or, at least, save your life from the cutpurse 
lurking in the alley outside. Waterdeep's rumor network is 
vast, with roaming customers spreading whatever tales they 
hear; should PCs need information spread around (whether 
true or false), the best method is to whisper it like you don't 
wish it heard -given human nature (and the tendencies of 
some barmaids), the news is guaranteed to be known in the 
city from Northgate to Deepwater Isle within two days! 

Sitting back and relaxing after a dungeon jaunt is the pri 
mary purpose of taverns for adventurers, but relax too much 
(or brag too much) and your reputations may be tested by 
other tavern patrons spoiling for a fight and looking to defeat 
the new heroes in town. The tavern brawl is a classic activ 
ity; letting heroes test their mettle against a wide variety of 
opponents (from barmaids and thrown mugs to mercenaries 
and broken table legs). Helping the underdog in a tavern 
brawl is also the surest way to meet someone and make a 
friend (and in Waterdeep, you can never have too many 
friends). Of course, more often than not, the brawl lands 
folks in jail thanks to the diligence of the watch, but that 
doesn't end the possibilities of adventure. . . . 


A&uewTuRes pnom The Mi 1 

Whatever the provocation, jail is a place many would-be 
heroes see quite often in the City of Splendors. While most 
minor actions (tavern brawls and the like) simply result in a 
night behind bars and. a minor fine, some can land you in 
deeper trouble than previously known. Whereas minor vil 
lages are often powerless to prevent adventurers from running 
roughshod between dungeon adventures, wholesale property 
damage and unwarranted violence are strictly discouraged by 
the watch and the guard in Waterdeep. Causing trouble can 
have many more consequences when you can't just leave the 
city behind; the Lords' Alliance even works at rare times to 
extradite particularly destructive individuals from one city to 
another to answer to any major charges. 

The intrigues of Waterdeep can truly be explored with the 
Code Legal involved both for or against the PCs. If player 
characters make enemies, this is where you find out just how 
much influence people have in the city; many trumped-up 
charges and frames have landed whole parties of adventurers 
into Undermountain to serve their time, simply because they 
insulted the wrong person at a tavern. While the Lord's Court 
is immune to corruption and graft, they are not immune to 
skillfully placed "evidence," implicating the heroes of crimes. 
Just as it is quite easy to become the scapegoat of enemy 
nobles, it is easy to find out who your friends are when you are 
imprisoned. Your fines can be covered by noble friends, and 
they can easily move against any political maneuverings of 
other nobles. Of course, many adventures can come from such 
a benefactor ("All right. I've gotten you out of prison, and in 
return, I need you to do this for me. . . . "). 

And, of course, imprisonment should never be idle 
time from an adventure. Just as taverns are great places 
to eavesdrop and find out the word on the streets, the 
player character in prison -definitely a "captive" audi 
ence-often learns much information from the writing 
on the walls, hidden items in the straw bed pallets, or the 
slightly crazed prisoner in the next cell, warning of dan 
gers never spoken of openly in the city proper. It can 
either be news you can use once you're free, or it could 
be warning of an impending jail break; keep in mind that 
many fugitives from justice hide out in Undermountain 
and Skullport until their sentences are commuted as time 
served down there. And never turn away the stranger 
that arrives at the jail to offer you a deal from the Magis- 
ters or the Lords; their offers, while often risky and dan 
gerous, are often far more exciting (and profitable) than 
any time spent in a cramped jail cell. 




A&uewTuRes fnom the STizeeTs 

In a city the size of Waterdeep, there is always something 
else going on out in the streets that can have an impact on 
the player characters. Keep in mind that this city has 
122,000 people in it at any given time, and only a rare few 
have anything to do with dungeons and adventure. Water- 
deep has much excitement and variety to offer, if only you 
know what to look for on the streets. 

Nearly any person you meet at least has an interesting 
story to tell, but whether or not that story is told depends 
on the players' roleplaying (and the NPC's business and 
mood). All the NPCs of the Adventurers' Quarter have full 
histories and lives and stories galore; many good roleplay 
ing sessions could result from listening to an NPC's story - 
if no gold is gained, at least a story or piece of information 
was passed, making it time worth spending. 

As PCs should already know, they must always be on the 
lookout for thieves out to pick their pockets. PCs can be 
ambushed at any time of day, depending on how much trouble 
the DM wishes to introduce. Whenever you pass an alley or 
turn a blind comer, someone may be waiting to relieve you of 
money or items. Thievery is more apt to happen in Trades or 
Dock Ward than other wards (it still happens in the other 
wards too, though in far more stylish and dramatic ways). 
When the sun sets on Waterdeep, the thieves come out in 
droves, so mind your pockets. . . . Oh, one last note, a number 
of thieves (the Black Viper being the most famous) like to 
leave calling cards in place of stolen riches; there is rarely an 
adventurer alive who can resist such baiting, but take care that 
you don't rush blindly after thieves-they're always prepared 
for anyone trying to reclaim their gold and have many ways to 
deter you (caltrops and marbles are just for starters . . .). 

If you don't want to "waste your time" getting involved in 
the social intricacies of the city, mercenary hire is the ticket 
to success for your player characters. Just be sure to frequent 
the known places where mercenaries are hired and keep your 
eyes and ears open. For enterprising young adventurers, 
nearly anything is possible and there is never any lack of folk 
in the city looking for someone to "do this particularly deli 


cate job for me ..." Whether you're hired as a guard at a 
noble's banquet or as an extra caravan guard for a quick trip 
to Triboar, you're on hand whenever things happen for your 
employer (and in Waterdeep, happenings are rarely dull). 

Whenever player characters are wandering about the town, 
random encounters can happen at any moment. Waterdeep 
is filled with a number of notable and famous (or not-so- 
famous but important to a DM's campaign) NPCs that can 
cross your PCs' paths, adding interest to an otherwise empty 
day. Any number of things can happen in a short walk from 
the South Gate to Smugglers' Dock or a longer trek across 
town. Many brief encounters reveal, to the attentive, that 
there is much more going on around the city than what's on 
the surface. These brief "snapshot" encounters can be any 
thing or anyone, and they always lead to something interest 
ing (if not always profitable or dangerous), such as: 

• As your PCs walk down a street, you hear yelling and 
thumping overhead; looking up, a human dressed in 
black runs across a rooftop and leaps across the space 
over the street to a nearby roof. He is quickly followed by 
three pursuers. Two of them follow his leap and continue 
the chase, but the last one slips and falls, allowing a PC 
to aid him and his group (other NPC adventurers or the 
watch) in catching a criminal. 

• A young woman, barely clad in a variety of diaphanous 
silk scarves and silver filigreed jewelery, strolls seductively 
down the street before you, handing out sheets of paper. 
When she reaches your player characters, she chooses the 
character with the highest Charisma, winks at him or her 
while handing the PC an advertising flyer for a festhall, 
and says "Ooh, I do hope you can join us tonight. I'll be 
watching for you, dear." before sauntering off. 

• A shadowy figure in an ink-black cloak and hood comes out 
of a doorway ahead of you, quickly stuffing something into 
his shirt and darting around the next comer. The figure dis 
appears and the PCs spot something drop from his cloak: 
whether the item is a map to some secret temple beneath the 
city or simply a shopping list, this scene immediately has the 
PCs' interest and could lead to whatever the DM wishes. 

• As the PCs walk toward a destination, they overhear watch 
horns sounding nearby. If the PCs investigate the distur 
bance the watch needs reinforcements for, they can easily 
find excitement like a tavern brawl, trouble at the Market 
with vandals, a foreign wizard attacking a young pickpocket 
or an older merchant, a building fire, or nearly anything. 

Adventure awaits you in the City of Splendors, so enjoy! 


64 







SecReTs of the CiTy 

Boole IV of the OTv °f Splesidotis 

by Steven Schend with Ed Greenwood 


Skeletons in the Closet. 2-14 

Area Mysteries. 2-3 

NPC Mysteries. 3-14 

Major Character Roster.3-12 

Minor Character Roster. 12-14 

The Truth of the Matter. 15-16 

Behind the Scenes. 15-16 

Such a Deal. 15 

Trolltidings . 16 

Return of the Blue Axe. 16 

On the Knife's Edge. 16 


CKe&iTs 


Design: Steven E. Schend 
Editing: Karen S. Boomgarden, Janis Wells 
Cartography: Eric Hotz, Dennis Kauth, & 
Rob Lazzaretti 

Typesetting: Nancy J. Kerkstra 


Additional Design Concepts: Ed Greenwood 
Cover Art: Keith Parkinson 
Interior Art: Valerie Valusek 
Production: Paul Hanchette 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, FORGOTTEN REALMS, and MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

(c)1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the United States of America. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


ISBN 1-56076-368-1 
1109XXX1904 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 













SkeheTotos )kj The 
CLoset 

ecrets of the City is, more properly, the secrets of the Adventurers' Quarter of 
Southern Ward. In Chapters Four through Six of the Adventurer's Guide to the 
City, the players were introduced to many of the people and places of that sec 
tion of Southern Ward, but why wasn't all the information presented there? 
There are two reasons for that: The players should rarely know all the secrets 
behind the NPCs they meet, and keeping information hidden from the players allows the DM 
to use the secrets to instigate new adventures when the players least expect them. 

This book covers all the information the Dungeon Master will need to run the Adventurers' 
Quarter campaign effectively. "Skeletons in the Closet" entails all the secrets of the NPCs and 
the buildings of the area. "The Truth of the Matter" goes into more details on the adventure 
scenes and hooks presented for the players. Keep in mind that these aren't fully developed 
adventures-they still take some work from the Dungeon Master before they are ready for a 
game session. Quite a few secrets in both chapters link up with other mysteries within the time 
lines and history of the city (Chapter Two of the Campaign Guide to the City), and these are left 
to the DM to work into a campaign. 



ku.ex MysTerCies 

M any of these details are simply hidden features of the settings within the Adventurers' Quar 
ter that the player characters would have no immediate knowledge of. Some of the secrets 
could be shared with the watch civilar, but not necessarily all. What is discovered in the course of a 
campaign is totally up to the DM and the tenacity of the player characters' investigations. 

Madame GaRaTVs BoAiz&iKig House 

• There is a secret trapdoor underneath the desk on the first floor under the stairs. It leads 
to a small half-cellar hideaway that is stocked with dried fruits, water, and blankets. Inside a 
small wooden chest filled with blankets, there is a false bottom that hides Madame Garah's 
nest egg, saved over ten years: 1,214 gp, 648 sp, 74 cp, and four emeralds worth 200 gp each. 

SafehaveK) Imm 

• There is an entrance into the sewers through the existing cellars: if the spigot on the last 
of the wine casks is turned upward, a 5-foot high door pops open in the stone foundations 
and reveals a rung ladder set in the wall and going down into the sewers. This feature 
remains from its original foundation, and was used by Guildmaster Gildeggh, the first 
owner of this property. Only the owners know of this passage; Watcher has stashed the 
majority of the Knights' monetary treasure in a false stone alcove four rungs up from the 
entrance and at the base of the beer tuns in the taproom above. The treasure is mostly 
coin and jewels; the total sum hidden here is: 4,213 gp, 1,547 pp, and 7,329 gp in jewelry. 

• A secret trapdoor in the kitchen is underneath the hearth; by pressing a combination of cer 
tain stones on the chimney, the hearth slides sideways into the taproom, exposing a staircase 
into a small chamber. Here is stored much normal adventuring gear plus the remaining magi 
cal treasures of the Knights: Bozv of Hosark, crystal ball, elven chain +2, sword of dancing, staff 
of the magi, quiver of Ehlonna, folding boat, and two wizards' spellbooks (DM's choice of spells 
up to 6th level). 






The Been Golem TavefcM 

• There is a panel of wood in the floor behind the bar that flips up, 
revealing Quallos' hiding place for excess coinage during the day 
(at any given time it could hold 3d6 x lOgp). It also holds a long 
sword, a club, and two daggers (if things get out of hand). 

• The main ceiling brace beam in Quallos' bedroom is hol 
lowed out, and contains the bulk of his saved money: five 
tradebars (50 gp each), three harbor moons (50 gp each), 
725 gp, 1,924 sp, and 894 cp. 

Helm's Hall 

• There is a hidden cellar accessible only through a sliding panel 
at the back of Ederick's closet; the panel opens to a slim stair 
case inside the walls that leads to a 20-foot-square hidden cel 
lar. Kiber Ederick stores his weapons and magical items from his 
paladin days there, as well as some treasure not tithed to Torm 
(a 1,200-gp necklace, 14 50-gp rubies, 893 gp, 722 sp). 

House of N)k)<ML JaLbuck 

• The side bricks of the chimney in Nindil's third floor bedroom 
have a secret door leading to a small iron-rung ladder that can 
fit a halfling or a very slim human. The ladder goes down the 
length of the house and further, below the sewers before end 
ing at a trapdoor. Magically enchanted to only open for 
Nindil or someone wearing a Lord's ring, the trapdoor is 
impervious to damage. Below the trapdoor is an antechamber 
and storage room; this is where Nindil keeps his Lord's robes 
and helm. Even when he travels these secret tunnels that 
connect the Lords' homes with Castle Waterdeep and the 
Palace, Nindil is never out of his robes or helm. 

Waukeew's Wawes 

• Alek's main counter is rigged to deal with anyone who threatens 
him. If hostilities break out, a press of a button releases a spray of 
darts (THACO 8 to all within 10', ld3 points of damage; save 
vs. poison or be paralyzed for ldl2 rounds). He uses this as a dis 
traction to rush to the back room and go through his secret door 
(-2 to detect; his straw bed mattress and wooden frame is the 
door) to a hidden basement. There is another secret door lead 
ing to a tunnel that connects with a sewer line; Alek uses this to 
get to and from his own place and the Thirsty Throat tavern. 

KoLaT Touoerzs 

• The mysteries of this place are innumerable, as the brothers 
resorted to much magical alteration to create a domicile of 
use to both of them. Rumors indicate a permanent reduction 
spell over the entry portal which shrinks entrants and allows 
for more rooms within the towers. Other information is rare, 
but there is much mention by a few who have seen it that 
the main tower is filled with invisible staircases and ramps 
leading to otherwise unreachable places. If there are more 
secrets, the wizards have good reason to keep them. 


NPC MysTetOes 

T he NPCs below are the detailed characters presented for 
the Adventurers' Quarter in the Adventurer's Guide to the 
City. Their initial information is written up there; this chapter 
reveals some (but not necessarily all) of their history and hid 
den secrets. This information is for the Dungeon Master only, 
as is everything within the Secrets of the City book. Player 
characters already know who the people are, where to find 
them, and what they look and act like; for the players to find 
out any of the information listed here on the characters, their 
heroes have to interact with the characters. The Dungeon 
Master should provide any of this information when relevant 
in the course of role-playing, but secrets don't always come 
directly from the NPC in question, but from friends and ene 
mies as well. These major NPCs are almost fully fleshed out in 
terms of game and character details, but DMs should feel free 
to alter some of the details to better fit their campaigns. 

ChAKAcCeiz Template 

Character Name 

[Previously Detailed] 

Occupation: Career (or alleged career) 

Locations: Residence; Frequented Areas 
Description: Physical Appearance 
Personality: Surface Impressions of person 
Trivia: Shticks, Mannerisms, & Minutiae 

[Secret Information] 

Friends: These are other characters (most are listed in this 
boxed set) that the character counts as friends or acquain 
tances. These are not the only people the character knows, 
but are those he or she knows well. 

Enemies: These are other characters in this book (and beyond) 
that the characters do not get along with for one reason or 
another; reasons are listed with the NPC in question or are 
within the character history. 

Game Info: The nuts and bolts of character definition, these are all 
the relevant AD&D(r) game statistics, codes, and character 
information that step away from the role and clarify the char 
acter in AD&D game terms. Information is provided on align 
ment, sex, race, exceptional statistics, level and character class 
(with supplementary notes, if needed), and hit points. The last 
items listed tend to be exceptional pieces of equipment, from 
special armor to magical items and uncommon spells. 

History: This is the story of the character as it relates to the 
game campaign. Often far from complete, the histories are 
left open to allow Dungeon Master to customize the char 
acters, making them their own. DMs should be careful 
about revealing too much about an NPC to the players; just 
as in real life, everyone has their own secrets, no matter 
how large or small. . . . 





Major CbaRAcTeR RosTerc. 

Arkiem Arren 

Friends: Rachel Arren, Travis Deepdell, Danilo Thann, 
Watcher Thistlebuck. 

Enemies: Errya Eltorchul (for daring to dismiss her as having 
no musical talent), Brandon Korelwyn (he allegedly 
attempted to steal some of Arkiem's instruments). 

Game Info: Lawful Neutral male gold elf. Strength 17, Dexter 
ity 18, Charisma 16. 9th-level priest of Milil. 31 hp. Cloak 
of displacement, Harpers' pin, pipes of sounding. 

History: Often mistaken for a bard, Arkiem is a talented performer 
and knows a multitude of instruments, but he is a devout wor 
shiper and cleric for Milil, the god of song. Little is known 
about Arkiem's early years, and he is not forthcoming with any 
information on this, even to his wife. By his 200th year, 
Arkiem was actively singing the praises of Milil along the 
northern borders of Amn. He spent years wandering the Sword 
Coast, earning a living like a bard and singing the praises of 
Milil when he could. Sometime during the Year of the Lost 
Helm (1329 DR), Arkiem became affiliated with the Harpers, 
though the name of his sponsor is unknown, and he has rarely 
undertaken missions for the group in the last two years. 

Seven summers past, Arkiem's solitary life ended when he, 
in his wanderings in the Crags north of Neverwinter, stum 
bled across the Knights of the Sword Coast trapped in a 
mountain pass by an ambush of hill giants. While his magi 
cal pipes and his charm spells proved quite effective in sav 
ing the day, the most powerful charm he met proved to be 
Rachel Wykos, a carefree priestess of Lliira. Arkiem joined 
the Knights and adventured with them until their retirement 
to Waterdeep in Eleint of 1366. Rachel and Arkiem were 
married and they began to establish their home and temple, 
purchasing their current rooms with their treasure. 

For now, Arkiem has settled into Waterdeep and is, with 
the blessing of the Patriarch of Song, establishing a com 
munal temple to Milil and Lliira with his wife at their 
home. While most now more easily recognize his status as a 
priest, they still are most impressed with Arkiem's bardic 
skills. His nightly performances at the Safehaven Inn are 
quite popular and raise funds for the temple swiftly, but 
they also allow him to listen in on local rumors and keep 
an indirect eye on the goings-on within the city or among 
the caravans. Though no one has ever seen him wear their 
badge, it's rumored that Arkiem is one of the Harpers. 


Game Info: Chaotic Good female human. Dexterity 18, 
Charisma 16. 6th-level priestess of Lliira. 14 hp. Ring of 
warmth, Lliira's pendant, potion of extra-healing (*3). 

History: Rachel Wykos was born in Neverwinter in 1343, but her 
parents and she moved to Waterdeep in 1347. At an early 
age, Rachel showed promise in her dancing, though her exu 
berance and single-mindedness got her into constant trouble 
with the city watch. By the age of seventeen, she received a 
sign from Lliira (she met a beautiful spectral dancer in a 
North Ward alley, who kissed her lightly and gave her her 
bronze pendant, Rachel dedicating herself to the goddess 
from then on). She soon left Waterdeep with a love-struck 
boy named Rett, a young warrior affiliated with the Knights 
of the Sword Coast. While Rett soon died an unfortunate 
death, Rachel stayed with the group, growing quite close to 
them and becoming an essential member of the group (she 
became Essimuth's "little sister"). She met the only person 
who could leave her speechless and flustered, Arkiem the elf, 
and married him upon their return to Waterdeep with the 
company's dissolution in 1366. They now live there quietly, 
establishing a school and temple to their gods in their home. 
Rachel recently gave some of her magical equipment to 
Lauhren for her use while adventuring as a priestess of Lliira. 

Clion 

Friends: Arilyn Moonblade, Olophin, Raymid, Tomed Myntion. 

Enemies: Clion has an incredible hatred for lizard men, but he 
has no known specific enemies. 

Game Info: Chaotic Good male human. Strength 16. Dual 
class: 2nd-level thief/4th-level fighter. 38 hp. 

History: A former thief from the streets of Luskan, Clion and his 
lifelong friend Raymid joined up with the Sword Ghosts, a 
punningly-named group of fighters and thieves. While a young 
Arilyn Moonblade was less than thrilled by Clion's clumsy 
attentions, she was impressed by his fighting skills (which out 
stripped his stealth and thieving skills). She sent him to the 
Academy of Arms for training by Kimel Nimesin, the elven 
armsmaster. After his training was complete, Clion and 
Raymid joined the watch to repay their debts to Nimesin. 

While Kimel Nimesin died in mysterious circumstances 
in 1361 and their debt to him was paid, Clion stayed with 
the watch as he finally found a sense of kinship and belong 
ing he'd never had before. Since being assigned to the new 
Grocer's Lane watchpost, he has made many friends in the 
area and plans to stay here a while. 


4 


Rachel Arren 

Friends: Arkiem Arren, Vhonna Deepdell, Essimuth Lanys, 
Raymid, Shyrrhr, Watcher Thistlebuck. 

Enemies: Ghentilara (High Priestess of Lathander, who ousted 
Rachel from the Spires of the Morning years ago for daring 
to worship the dawn's coming with a "provocative" dance). 


Travis Deepdell 

Friends: The Safehaven staff. Lord Phaulkon. 

Enemies: Elaith Craulnobur (he sponsored three attempts last 
year to steal the Bow ofHosark from the Safehaven; Travis 
delivered the last to Blackstone House with a silent, glaring 
warning not to attempt a fourth try). 









Game Info: Neutral Good male half-elf. Dexterity 18. 8th- 
level ranger. 49 hp. Worshipper of Mielikki. Bow of Hosark, 
dagger of homing, elven chainmail +2. 

History: Abandoned as a baby at the cottage of an elven 
woodsman, Travis Deepdell grew up in the depths of the 
High Forest. Here, he learned to revere Mielikki, and 
vowed that he would take her and the forest's examples, 
speaking only when needed and always like a whisper in 
the trees. When Travis turned 40, his guardian left for 
Evermeet but left Travis a magical bow and his armor. 
Travis doesn't know anything of the woodsman's or the 
bow's history but has named his magical weapon the Bow of 
Hosark in his honor. After spending a few years as a guide 
through the forest to the few adventurers that dared 
approach the woods, Travis left the High Forest with a 
group of elves to see the lands beyond. 

As Tymora would have it, Travis' company was soon 
ambushed by a war party of gnolls in the hills outside 
Evereska. Travis didn't despair as his companions fell 
around him, though his silent pleas to Mielikki, the Lady of 
the Forest, seemed answered when Vhonna Lanys and the 
Knights of the Sword Coast leapt into the fray, soon 
slaughtering the gnolls and saving Travis. Travis fell in love 
with Vhonna that day, though he carried this burden with 
him for four years while her husband, the noble Barkess 
Lanys, lived and led the Knights. A year after Barkess fell 
at the hands of the lich Berthist, Travis finally confessed his 
love to Vhonna. When the Knights dissolved, Travis used 
his treasures to buy property with Watcher Thistlebuck and 
convert it into the Safehaven Inn. They hired Bannor Kar- 
ralo to run it with them, leaving Travis more time to raise 
his and Vhonna's infant half-elf daughter as well as get to 
know Arana, her daughter by Barkess. 

Vhonna Deepdell 

Friends: Rachel Arren, Morus Brokengulf the Younger, Silate 
& Travis Deepdell, Arana & Essimuth Lanys, Olophin, 
Terresk, Watcher Thistlebuck. 

Enemies: None known, though there is a 4,000 gp reward if 
her head is delivered to the Shadow Thieves of Amn. 

Game Info: Lawful Good female human. Strength 18(20), 
Wisdom 16.12th-level paladin of Torm. 81 hp. Plate armor 
+2, bastard sword +3, flametongue. 

History: Vhonna is an orphan from Luskan who barely remem 
bers her parents. Her first real memory is of being saved by a 
large man in plate mail, the mark of Torm upon his breast 
plate. From then on, Vhonna's life was dedicated to law, 
order, and the devout worship of Torm. She was raised by a 
maiden aunt of the paladin Jherem Tamn, a close friend of 
Piergeiron who fell a few years later. Vhonna was raised to be 
a holy warrior of Torm and, as soon as her training was com 
pleted, she and a fellow named Barkess Lanys founded the 


Knights of the Sword Coast, dedicated to quelling any evils 
they found in the greater glory of good. In early winter of the 
Year of the Crown (1351 DR), the group set out toward 
adventure. For fifteen years the group stayed together, held 
together by Vhonna even after Barkess's death in 1359. 

Her years in the holy service of her god Torm have shown 
her horrors beyond many imaginations, but her faith in her 
god, herself, and her friends remained strong. Throughout the 
death of her husband and comrades, throughout the Time of 
Troubles that shook her faith to its core, and through her 
growing love and courtship with Travis. With the impending 
birth of her second child, Vhonna disbanded the Knights of 
the Sword Coast by the consent of her friends, and they all 
retired to Waterdeep where they live still. Vhonna now alter 
nates her time between Helm's Hall, helping to educate the 
orphans there, and the Field of Triumph, hired by Caladorn 
Cassalanter as an instructor-at-arms. Lord Piergeiron 
approached her to form and lead an elite guard unit of the city 
guard to act as a secondary defense for himself and the Lords; 
while she hasn't taken the offer, she has yet to turn it down, 
and Piergeiron has left the decision in her hands. 

Madame Garah 

Friends: Amrani, Rachel Arren, Vhonna Deepdell, Hedrik, 
the wizards Kolat, Essimuth Lanys, Halidara Urinshoon. 

Enemies: Khelben Arunsun (Hedrik was blinded by magic run 
amok "and our strutting peacock of an archmage sat back, 
his head too busy in the clouds to worry over the common 
folk"). Florin Falconhand (he once vowed to cherish her 
and marry her, but he left her as one of many broken 
hearts), Rokekk Ingerr (Rokekk attacked her when she was 
a young dancer, and she sees only his arrogant look and 
womanizing attitude). 

Game Info: Lawful Good female human. 0-level laborer. 8 hp. 
Worshipper of Milil. Ring of spell turning, wand of paralyzation. 

History: Garah was once one of the fairest, most beautiful maid 
ens ever seen in the City of Splendors. She was one of the 
more noted performers years ago at the Three Pearls night 
club, where she was good friends with the dancer-turned- 
owner, Halidara Urinshoon. She fell in love with a musician 
who played at the Pearls, one Thavius Urlettar, and they 
planned to marry. She had sensibly saved her earnings, which 
were considerable due to tips and gifts, and Garah was able to 
buy a small two-storey house in South Ward, in which to 
await the birth of her child and the return of her lover from a 
trip to the Moonshae Isles. Word came of his ship being lost 
at sea, and Garah mourned. Her child was stillborn, and she 
could not have any other children. 

Garah retired from dancing, her heart no longer in it, and 
she opened her home to boarders to keep her company. 
After the Time of Troubles, she adopted a small boy, 
blinded by the wild magics of some foreign mages, and 




raised him as her own. Since then, she hasn't fully trusted 
wizards, though that hasn't stopped her from baking pies for 
the wizards Kolat or using a little magic herself (her magi 
cal items are gifts from Essimuth, who felt she needed them 
"for a little protection from troublemakers"). She wears the 
ring at all times and she wears the wand like a hair pin, 
holding her locks in a bun. 

Hedrik 

Friends: Hemmerem, Madame Garah, Duhlark Kolat, Arana 
Lanys, Branta Myntion, Raymid 

Enemies: Erik (former tormentor and bully from Helm's Hall 
days), Kharkos (rival for Arana, who has crush on him) 

Game Info: Lawful Good male human. Dexterity 16, Intelli 
gence 17. 0-level laborer. 6 hp. Worshiper of Ilmater & 
Milil. Hedrik's staff. 

History: Like so many of the orphans from Helm's Hall, Hedrik's 
life begins with his arrival there at age three, malnourished 
and clad only in rough, oversized seaman's clothes. When a 
minor mage attempted to conjure an illusion to amuse the 
children, Hedrik was struck blind by the wild magic bolts that 
ensued. Adopted soon afterward by Madame Garah, Hedrik 
has grown into a strong boy of sharp wits and more ability 
than most attribute to a blind boy. He is a cook of growing 
accomplishment (with the exception of his "pepper rolls," an 
unfortunate accident when a boarder put the chili powder 
where the cinammon usually went and Hedrik made break 
fast the next day). He is also friends with many of the elders 
around Adventurers' Quarter. Alcedor Kolat gave him the 
staff he has used since he was ten; it has a rudimentary intelli 
gence (Intelligence 6) and a telepathic presence that directs 
Hedrik around obstacles and keeps him safe. 

Rokkek Ingerr 

Friends: Feldyn Goadolfyn, Nindil Jalbuck, Essimuth Lanys, 
Quallos Myntion, Piatran. 

Enemies: Setara Bint Aasim (she now has control of Ingerr's 
business due to his mounting gambling debts at Silavene's 
and she's using him to establish some smuggling). Lord 
Bronson Phaulkon (Rokkek has seen him as a rival for so 
long, the jealousy has become hatred). 

Game Info: Neutral Evil male human. 0-level merchant. 10 
hp. Former worshiper of Tymora and Waukeen. 

History: A lifelong resident of Waterdeep, Rokkek Ingerr was a 
privileged child who learned the family business (and many 
other things) at his father's side. With everything given to 
him, he always expected the best for himself. His parents 
arranged his marriage to his wife, an Amnite beauty, when he 
was eighteen. With the death of his father and the Time of 
Troubles, Rokkek Ingerr was sorely tried but succeeded, com 
ing back from losing his home and business in the Wardfires 
and building his current grand manse. In the last few years. 


though, Rokkek's luck has failed. His gambling and his indis 
cretions with young women have led him to ruin; his business 
is now owned by the cunning Setara Bint Aasim, the Cal- 
ishite owner of Silavene's festhall and casino. She has no 
wish to discredit Ingerr, though; she intends to use his 
importing and shipping company for smuggling, allowing him 
to take the fall if caught. Rokkek is drowning in self-pity over 
his predicament, though he puts up a brave face to everyone. 
He has been spending his nights in shady taverns and known 
mercenary spots lately; despite his distaste for this "lower 
class," he is looking for someone to discretely dispose of 
Setara and thus return his business to him. 

Nindil Jalbuck 

Friends: Danilo Thann, "Kitten" Nymara Scheiron, Mirt, 
Scyphia Jalbuck, Quallos Myntion, Tomed Myntion, Tolgar 
Anuvien, Nain. 

Enemies: None specifically known 

Game Info: Lawful Neutral male halfling. Dexterity 19. Dual 
class: 6th-level thief/2nd-level fighter. 28 hp. Worshiper of 
Chauntea. Boots of speed, Dagger (Homblade), Lord's Effects 
(see Chapter Five of the Campaign Guide to the City). 

History: Nindil arrived in Waterdeep about eighteen years ago 
and survived by petty thievery and pickpocketing. He soon 
moved up to spying and information trading, often working 
(unknowingly) for the Lords as a source of underworld infor 
mation. His career almost ended, however, when he tried to 
pick the pocket of Tolgar Anuvien, a cleric of late of the 
Company of Crazed Venturers in a tavern in North Ward. 

As penance and in exchange for dropping all charges, 
Nindil was brought to Goldenfields to work as a perimeter 
guard. After a few more years of working the fields and 
finding a new life with Chauntea's faithful, Nindil proved 
Tolgar's faith in him by becoming one of his main account 
keepers. After a number of months learning more about the 
honest side of a business, Nindil opened a grocery in 
Waterdeep in 1358 with the backing of Tolgar, just after 
the conclusion of the Godswar. Nindil built a good reputa 
tion with the city by providing food out of his own pocket 
to the many left homeless and destitute by the ravaging of 
Myrkul's minions. He settled into life within the Adventur 
ers' Quarter and slowly built his grocery into one of the 
more popular within the ward (and the city), due in equal 
parts to the excellent produce and his infectious charm. 
During this time, he met and wed the lovely human 
Scyphia amid much gossip and rumor. 

Years later, the Lords of Waterdeep sought to strengthen 
their ranks after the tumult engineered by the Knights of the 
Shield and a lone bard named Garnet nearly caused the dis 
solution of the Lords' rule of the city. Given the goodwill he 
had in the city, his past informant work for the Lords, his 
contacts with the common folk of the city, and his halfling 




stature making him an unexpected choice, Nindil was given 
the mantle of a Lord of Waterdeep. His nomination was 
sponsored by Danilo Thann, a new Lord himself in 1364, and 
supported by Mirt, Durnan, Kitten, and Brian. Nindil has 
proven himself worthy of the post, giving the Lords a closer 
touch with the common people under their rule. He is also 
useful for information from the North, through Tolgar and 
other contacts at Goldenfields. Of all the Lords of Waterdeep, 
Nindil is by far the last person suspected by the public. 

Alcedor Kolat 

Friends: Madame Garah, Malchor Harpell, Hedrik, Duhlark 
Kolat, Branta Myntion, Quallos Myntion, Nain 

Enemies: No real serious enemies, though Lady Thyri Snome is 
hardly a friend (she is quite miffed with Alcedor for refus 
ing to work with his brother on creating a half-dozen magi 
cal gloves capable of casting Duhlark's Long Reach on 
command, and her constant badgering has left a bad 
impression of her with both brothers). 

Game Info: Lawful Neutral male human. Strength 8, Intelli 
gence 17. 19th-level specialist wizard (enchanter). 43 hp. 
Worshiper of Azuth, Mystra, Selune. Amulet & Staff of 
Alcedor, ring of chain armor, ring of spell storing, ring of spell 
turning, helm of comprehending languages & reading magic, 
and five spellbooks (two for traveling). 

History: Alcedor and Duhlark were born identical twins to mer 
chant parents in Sulmeth. Receiving magical training at the 
Mystics' Academy in Llorbauth, the two brothers joined a 
group of mages and fighters known as Mystra's Defenders for a 
number of years. Due to a mishap within another dungeon in 
the Border Kingdoms, the party was teleported deep within 
Undermountain's fifth level. They managed to escape alive, 
returning to the surface world hundreds of miles away from 
home. After adventuring a bit in the Savage Frontier to the 
north, the brothers returned to Waterdeep at Alcedor's insis 
tence to study the ancient magics of lost Netheril. They inad 
vertently entered the city the night of Myrkul's invasion, and 
helped in Waterdeep's defense immediately. Soon after, they 
bought their property and established their towers. 

Alcedor spends much of his time crafting magical items, 
whether for fame, fortune, or simply out of curiosity and a 
sense of nostalgia no one knows. In all his years of crafting 
items, the magics have taken their toll, making Alcedor look 
and feel like a 65year-old when he's actually only 39; many 
believe his twin brother is actually his son! The brothers 
think alike, despite their different specialties of magic, and 
both are fascinated by all things relating to Netheril. While 
his brother ponders the ancient art of transmuting new ani 
mal species, Alcedor is researching the development of wands 
and staves from their primitive forms in Netheril. One of his 
prized possessions is a drained Netherese blast scepter given to 
him by Halaster in their trip through Undermountain. While 


this is his primary course of study, he still takes time to tutor 
Branta in her spellcasting skills, and creates items for nobles 
who can underwrite the costs of his main researches. Now, 
with a temple (and library) of Oghma and New Olamn in 
place, Alcedor can do his own research much more cheaply 
than before and has drastically reduced his output of magical 
creations. The research and creation of some of his more use 
ful items was commissioned by the Watchful Order of Magists 
& Protectors and they currently create spell lenses, rings of 
armor, and wands offearfire (listed in the Campaign Guide to 
the City book) for members able to meet the steep costs. 

Duhlark Kolat 

Friends: Irusyl Eraneth (Laeral), Alcedor Kolat, Hlanta 
Melshimber, Branta Myntion, Trahnt. 

Enemies: Elaith Craulnobur (Duhlark worked with Elaith and 
lived to tell about it), Maaril (he goaded Duhlark into a spell 
battle that resulted in his being turned into a faerie dragon for 
a short time, and Maaril has never forgiven the insult). 

Game Info: Chaotic Good male human. Intelligence 17, Dex 
terity 16. 20th-level specialist wizard (transmuter). 54 hp. 
Worshiper of Mystra. Bracers of defense AC5, cloak of the 
bat, dagger of homing, ring of chain armor, ring of invisibility, 
staff of power, wand of polymorphing, wand of size alteration, 
and six spellbooks (three for travel). 

History: His history matches his brother's up until they estab 
lish a tower complex within Waterdeep. Here the two 
brothers began to drift apart, each isolating himself to his 
respective studies and interests. While they still get along, 
their conversations are most often arguments over the 
nature of ancient magics and artifacts. Duhlark is still the 
more worldly of the brothers, often wandering about the 
city at any time of the day or night; he says he thinks better 
at preliminary stages of research if he's active. 

In attempts to gain some notoriety and fame, Duhlark peri 
odically develops new spells and sells them to the Watchful 
Order, the watch-wizard corps, or a select few other wizards in 
the city, such as Laeral; Duhlark first met Laeral in her dis 
guise as Irusyl Eraneth of Skullport, and he later recognized 
her as Laeral by the use of a rare elven oath she muttered at a 
meeting of the Watchful Order. He is starting to regret his 
decision to sell spells to the watch-wizards, as many are learn 
ing and using his spells, but they aren't attributing his name 
with the spells. Duhlark's latest, animerge, is still under testing 
and he has only allowed his brother and Laeral knowledge of 
it; he gave Khelben and Laeral a caged wolveraven created by 
the spell (a raven with a wolverine's head, and glider wings 
with razor-sharp claws on the wingtips) for them to study and 
investigate the spell's ramifications. 

In the timeline in the Campaign Guide to the City, the 
Kolat towers are burglarized just after Midsummer Night; if 
the Dungeon Master wishes to have this spell stolen and 





abused, see the spell itself in the Campaign Guide for the 
ramifications. Adventure suggestions for this could be an 
insurgence of Broken Ones within the city (vagrants 
merged with stray animals), or the problem of some wizard 
getting into the Palace paddocks and merging sparrows 
with the horses (creating miniature pegasi but crippling the 
guard's mobility at the same time). 

Kylia 

Friends: Arkiem Arren, Travis Deepdell, Madame Garah, 
Hemmerem, Laeral, Tannith Moonharness, Larissa 
Neathal, Olanhar Wands, Winnifer 

Enemies: Gaundos (Kylia believes he wants revenge for an old 
embarassment, in which she turned his head into that of a 
boar due to some crude comment, but Hlaavin/ Gaundos 
really wants to find her and absorb her identity), Malakuth 
Tabuirr (Kylia's information to the Lords led to the capture of 
three successive boatloads of smuggled goods out of Skullport, 
and Tabuirr's spies told him about a nosy little gnome . . . ) 

Game Info: Chaotic Good female gnome. Intelligence 19, Dex 
terity 16. 12th-level specialist wizard (illusionist). 39 hp. 
Worshiper of Baravar Cloakshadow, gnomish god of illusion. 
Bracers of defense AC4, ring of gargoyles, robe of eyes, staff of 
thunder & lightning, and two spellbooks (both travel-sized). 

History: Not even Khelben Arunsun knows the full background 
of this little woman, though he and his consort Laeral know 
the most. She arrived at Blackstaff Tower one day seven years 
back, demanding entrance. As she had spent six months 
observing his comings and goings, she deduced the identities 
of all but three of the Lords (Sammereza, Larissa, and Kitten 
are still unknown to her, as are the newly appointed Lords, 
Nindil Jalbuck and Danilo Thann). With her brains and illu 
sionary abilities, she became one of the Lords, best agents at 
infiltration and information gathering; however, her dramat 
ics and her need for attention didn't work well with Khel- 
ben's established patterns. Kylia began working more and 
more directly with Laeral, and the two of them are the pri 
mary presence for the Lords in Skullport disguised as Irusyl 
Eraneth and her half-elf apprentice Liak. Her work is exem 
plary, but she is careful never to be traced back to the Lords. 
Kylia stays with Madame Garah in Waterdeep, but also keeps 
rooms at The Deepfires in Skullport. 

Essimuth Lanys 

Friends: Aekyl Dafyre, Madame Garah, Rokkek Ingerr, Malutt 
Maulksoun, Danilo Thann, Ellidis Wands; the staffs at the 
Beer Golem & Safehaven. 

Enemies: Regnet Amcathra (Essimuth tripped him up one 
night in the Safehaven when Regnet was spoiling for a 
fight with some half-ore mercenaries and "fell"/sat on him 
until his friends could escort him out), Blazidon One-Eye 
(Essimuth tells people that, while he was a good fighter. 



Blazidon lost his eye to an enraged woman at the House of 
Purple Silks, not any monster), Maskar Wands (Maskar is 
bitter with Essimuth, as his stories of adventure led his half- 
elven nephew away from his apprenticeship and a pure 
study of magic to a life as an adventuring mage-thief). 

Game Info: Chaotic Good male human. Constitution 16; Wis 
dom 15. 12th-level thief. 42 hp. Worshiper of Selune and 
Tymora. Axe of hurling +1, dagger of homing, ring of protec 
tion +2, and a robe of blending. 

History: Though his stories are long-winded and heavily embell 
ished, Essimuth's tales are all truthful and tell much of the 
excitement of his life. He and his little brother Barkess set out 
from Neverwinter in search of adventure, finding friends and 
excitement enough to last two lifetimes. After twenty years of 
adventuring-fifteen with the Knights of the Sword Coast- 
and, mind you, this number grows with each telling Essimuth 
retired from active adventuring only when an owlbear attack 
cost him his right leg and right eye. 

Of all the Knights, Essimuth amassed the most in terms of 
treasure, but his retirement has made him generous. In the past 
few years he has played benefactor to quite a few starting adven 
turers (including Donar Heremet), giving away some magical 
items and older equipment to young heroes "if they promise to 
return to ol' Essimuth once a year and tell him their tales." 
There is only a 10% chance that he'll take a shining to a PC in 
this fashion, though attentive and friendly PCs might be able to 
buy some of his remaining magical equipment at the DM's pre 
rogative (equipment not normally for sale). 

Branta Myntion 

Friends: Hedrik, Alcedor & Duhlark Kolat, Miri & Quallos 
Myntion, Blakantar Tagon. 

Enemies: None known, though many people in the city are 
unnerved and a little afraid of her due to her looks. 

Game Info: Neutral female human. Intelligence 18, Dexterity 
17, Charisma 9. 2nd-level specialist wizard (enchanter). 7 
hp. Worshiper of Mystra. Ring of scale armor and one spell- 
book (13 1st- and 2nd-level spells). 

History: Branta, the youngest daughter of Quallos and Miri, is 
Alcedor Kolat's apprentice, and acts as a go-between for both 
brothers and any contacts. Wild magic cast in Mouse Alley is 
responsible for her current look; just by imitating another 
spellcaster, Branta managed to mimic a magic missile spell that 
went awry and marked her thus for life. Alcedor recognized 
her latent talents and took her in to train her. Now, after 
nearly two years of education, Branta is a burgeoning mage in 
her own right. She spends much time at the House of Won 
der, praying to Mystra for guidance in her path, for she is tom 
between wanting to stay in Waterdeep at the temple or with 
the Kolats and venturing into the Realms to seek her fate. 
Despite her unique appearance, she is still a lost and lonely 
girl seeking guidance and friendship. 



8 


Olophin 

Friends: Yaereene Ilbaereth, Quendever Ilistrym, Jaffar, Mul- 
gor, Piatran, Helve Urtrace. 

Enemies: Hykros Allumen (the high priest of Tyr is prejudiced 
against non-Northerners and tries to continually discredit 
Olophin's good works and words but not overtly to avoid 
the notice of Tyr's Champion, Lord Harkas Kormallis), 
Sumer (Olophin's brother-in-law, the husband of his little 
sister; Olophin knows of his habit of killing on each annual 
visit and it is a point of honor to keep him in check just as 
honor demands he keep quiet of the whole affair). 

Game Info: Lawful Good male human. Strength 17, Dexterity & 
Intelligence 16. 4th-level fighter. 26 hp. Worshiper of Tyr, Dag 
ger +1 and standard watch equipment (has access to personal 
armaments of a bastard sword and a suit of field plate embla 
zoned now with his family crest and the Arms of Waterdeep). 

History: Olophin is the youngest son of Zelmazzar, a sultan of 
Calimshan, and came north to seek his fortune ten years ago. 
He came to Waterdeep and here he stayed, "after I finally got 
used to the bone-numbing chill that permeates these north 
ern lands." After a few minor adventures in the upper levels 
of Undermountain, Olophin joined the watch and has 
remained a member for eight years; six months ago he was 
given the promotion to senior watch civilar at the Adventur 
ers' Quarter guardpost for a job well done. Though he lives at 
the guardpost, Quendever Ilistrym has left the rooms he 
occupied for eight years at the Unicorn's Horn open for him 
at no charge! His goodwill has also paid off in making him a 
rare welcome human regular at the Elfstone Tavern. 

Olophin worships Achanatyr, The Sword of Justice -an 
incarnation of Tyr worshiped in the South-and holds that 
all should work for justice, and the greatest good will result. 
Olophin sees Tyr as "the true face" of Achanatyr, and will 
strive to act as Piergeiron and other visible followers of Tyr 
in the City do; however, he does not hold with all the 
ideals of the zealots at the Halls of Justice, preferring a 
more lenient and measured approach to justice. He has 
started to spend more and more time on patrol guarding 
against the rampant vigilantism of some fanatical Tyr-wor- 
shipers (as are many throughout the city). 

Lord Bronson Phaulkon 

Friends: Travis Deepdell, Boroldan Ilzimmer, Nindil Jalbuck, 
Arum Tarm. 

Enemies: Filiare (Lord Phaulkon hired some mercenaries through 
Filiare, and they ambushed and stole an entire caravan they 
were hired to guard; after three years, this is still a sore point 
for both), Rokkek Ingerr (Ingerr's jealousies led to business 
conflicts which made him an enemy of Lord Phaulkon). 

Game Info: Lawful Neutral male human. Strength 16, Intel- 
hence 15. 0-level merchant. 4 hp. 

History: Lord Bronson Phaulkon, a minor noble from Cormyr, 


moved to Waterdeep with his wife and two daughters seven 
teen years ago. Establishing a small trading company and cara 
van trade from the Sea of Fallen Stars to the City of Splendors, 
he swiftly made his fortune in spices, wines, and textiles to and 
from the Eastern Heartlands. His life seemed charmed with his 
growing fortunes, his lovely family, and hardly an enemy in the 
world (a rare thing for a merchant, especially those in the cut- 
and-thrust mercantile life of Waterdeep). There are those who 
said that Tymora demands a price for such gifts, and Lord 
Phaulkon's luck was to change; truth or no, it did. 

Lady Cera Phaulkon and her youngest daughter Jeryth 
were traveling with a caravan to Luskan in early Mirtul, vis 
iting her sister. On its return to Waterdeep, the caravan was 
ambushed just north and east of Luskan on the Long Road; 
this sad news reached Waterdeep via riders from Mirabar. 
Spreading through the city were rumors that nearly everyone 
was slaughtered and, worst of all, the heads were cleanly sev 
ered from all the dead, including Lady Phaulkon's. Precious 
little has been found about this attack and senseless murder, 
but most rumors leave out the fact that no thieving hap 
pened-Lady Cera's diamond rings and emerald brooch were 
still on her corpse! This news sent Lord Bronson into a deep 
depression that has yet to break, and his business is starting 
to suffer from his lack of interest. . . . 

Jeryth Phaulkon 

Occupation: Mielikki's Chosen (known to rangers as "Our 
Lady's Champion" and the "Granddaughter of Silvanus"). 

Locations: The woods of the Sword Coast and Savage Frontier. 

Description: Jeryth has changed from her former debutante self. 
Now better suited to life in the wilderness, her long blonde 
hair has a streak of ivory along the crown of her head, similar 
to a unicorn's hom; the wind is all that determines the look of 
her wild mane. Her green eyes flash with vitality and energy, 
and her medium-height body is healthy and strong, her frame 
muscular and fit rather than starved to maintain some impos 
sible aesthetic of the young upper class. Jeryth now seems truly 
beautiful, rather than being just a product of cosmetics. 

Personality: As the Chosen Champion of Mielikki, Jeryth is 
now a totally different person. Without changing her hon 
est qualities, her spirit seems much more free once beyond 
the constraints of Waterdeep's social circles. She is playful, 
carefree, and relaxed, as happy as a bird in summer, pro 
vided she is in a forest or wilderness. All of her former pre 
tensions are gone, and she is more natural and in harmony 
with the wild. Of note, her new role as Mielikki's cham 
pion gives her an unforgiving attitude toward those who 
wantonly destroy nature and its treasures for their own self 
ish uses; in this manner, Jeryth follows the most conserva 
tive and strict credos of rangers. 

Trivia: Jeryth has a habit of idly toying with her hair, twisting 
a length of it around her fingers playfully. 





10 


Friends: Bran Skorlsun, the Harpers; (Formerly) Rachel Arren, 
Arana Lanys, Branta Myntion 

Enemies: Anyone who is an enemy of Mielikki or the Harpers. 
Game Info: Neutral Good female human. Strength 15; Dexter 
ity 19; Constitution 19. 6th-level ranger (automatically 
conferred by Mielikki). 27 hp. Worshiper of Mielikki. 

Special Abilities: As Mielikki's sole Champion, Jeryth is 
immune to the effects of entangle spells and has the non 
weapon proficiencies of Blind Fighting, Direction Sense, 
and Tracking at maximum efficiency. In addition, Jeryth 
has a number of permanent special abilities. 

• Animal & Plant Identification & Pure Water Location 
(as 3rd-level druid); 

• Animal Friendship: As the lst-level priest spell (affects 
up to 20 Hit Dice of animals); 

• Animal Summoning: As the 6th-level A.S. Ill spell; 

• Call Woodland Beings: As the 4th-level priest spell 
(100% for 1 creature or cast as 20th-level druid); 

• Commune with Nature: As the 5th-level priest spell (1 
mile effective radius); 

• Hallucinatory Forest: Can cast once per week as a 20th- 
level druid; 

• Locate Animals or Plants: As the lst-level priest spell; 

• Messenger: As the 2nd-level priest spell (can affect ani 
mals of sizes T to S); 

• Pass without Trace: As the lst-level priest spell; 

• Reincarnate: Can cast once a year as the 7th-level priest 
spell (only to faithful of Mielikki); 

• Speak with Animals: As the 2nd-level priest spell (coop 
eration is assured for Jeryth); 

• Speak with Plants: As the 4th-level priest spell; and 

• Transport via Plants: As the 6th-level priest spell (100% 
effectiveness). 

History: Jeryth's life has always been one of privilege. Growing up 
in Waterdeep (after her infancy and toddling years in Cor- 
myr), Jeryth moved about in the social circles of Waterdeep's 
young nobles, learning as much from a night in the taverns of 
Dock Ward as she had from her tutors in weeks. Blessed with a 
phenomenal memory, Jeryth was a clearing-house for gossip 
among the noble families, each one looking to find out the 
dirt on the others. Jeryth was also one of the more courted of 
the young women among the lesser nobles until her betrothal 
to the young noble Arum Tarm, heir of the Tarm family for 
tunes, was announced last Midsummer Night. 

With her abduction from a caravan last Eleint, Jeryth's 
life met a fate unguessed to this day by many in Waterdeep. 
Her caravan ambushed and many left dead, Jeryth and a 
few others became captives of the Hoar Fang, a particularly 
vicious tribe of gnolls. Heading further north toward their 
lair, the gnolls led their captives into the Valley of Redrun. 
In a dream, Mielikki contacted the sleeping Jeryth and 


offered her a place as her Champion, though not for her 
freedom; the Hoar Fang were destroying parts of the Lurk- 
wood, and Mielikki wanted it stopped. Jeryth, now infused 
with some of Mielikki's essence, managed to free herself 
and her two surviving comrades, leading them to freedom 
deeper into the forest. They encountered Bran Skorlsun, a 
senior Harper who had been hunting for the Hoar Fang, 
and they joined forces. When pursued by the gnolls, Jeryth, 
Bran, and a few animal friends literally tore them apart, 
though the Hoar Fang leader and his lieutenant escaped. 
Jeryth's two mercenary friends stayed with her and Bran, 
learning woodcraft and the way of the Harpers in deference 
to Mielikki and their rescue. Bran now acts as a mentor for 
Jeryth and her friends, teaching them the finer points of 
the rangers. While Jeryth knows that there are many peo 
ple waiting for her return to Waterdeep, that life seems far 
behind her and the path ahead is more important. Eventu 
ally, she may return to the City of Splendors, if only to 
close that part of her life forever and give Mielikki's thanks 
to her faithful at the Shrines of Nature. Of those within 
the city, only Khelben, Danilo, and those connected with 
the Harpers know of Jeryth's fate. Briosar Helmsing of the 
Shrines of Nature dreamed Mielikki herself appeared to 
him and told him to seek out her champion in the Moon- 
wood at Midwinter and was given a view of Jeryth; how 
ever, as he never met her before, he only tells folk of the 
quest given to him by his goddess. 

Raymid 

Friends: Clion, Arilyn Moonblade, Tomed Myntion, Shalara, 
Danilo Thann 

Enemies: None known, but has an intense hatred of drow and 
slavers; Raymid does have a slight paranoia about dealing 
with halflings, always expecting them to be thieves and 
liars (Nindil Jalbuck and Watcher Thistlebuck are amused 
by this and try harder to gain Raymid's trust) 

Game Info: Neutral male human. Strength 16; Wisdom 15. 
5th-level fighter. 34 hp. Worshiper of Mielikki. 

History: Formerly of Voonlar, Raymid was captured by a drow 
patrol as a young boy and spent much of his youth as a slave. 
Raymid's first view of the Sword Coast was from a slaving ship 
leaving Skullport, beneath Waterdeep. With the help of Clion, 
a friendly cabin boy, he slipped his bonds and they both 
escaped the slavers, leaping overboard just after leaving the 
docks at Luskan. The boys escaped and soon fell into lives of 
begging and petty thievery in the streets of Luskan. Raymid 
grew stronger and soon trained as a fighter but never left Clion 
behind, despite his growing penchant for stealing. He and 
Clion joined the Sword Ghosts with Arilyn Moonblade, who 
soon put them in contact with Kimel Nimesin, the elven arms- 
master at the Waterdeep Academy of Arms. Years later, 
Raymid and Clion repaid their debts to Nimesin by joining the 





rv 



Waterdeep watch, where they remain today. While few can 
recognize it, Raymid is quite happy in the Adventurers' Quar 
ter and is glad Clion and he plan to stay here awhile; regardless 
of any other personal choices, Raymid stays with Clion as he is 
honor-bound to repay him for his life of freedom. 

Sarya 

Friends: None known; she is a member of the Watchful Order 
of Magists & Protectors and the watch, so she can count on 
them for contacts if need be. 

Enemies: Too numerous to mention; Sarya has a habit of 
insulting nearly everyone she meets and makes it a point to 
embarrass or frighten people she's arresting with her magics 
(her suspect use of illusions and her telekinetic removal of 
suspects' clothing has her under investigation by superiors 
in the watch). 

Game Info: Lawful Evil female human. 3rd-level mage. 9 hp. 
Worshiper of Azuth. Ring of telekinesis. 

History: Sarya is a native Waterdhavian who came out of 
obscurity two years ago as a promising apprentice of Orlar 
Thammas; unfortunately, the Speaker for the Order could 
not impress some greater measures of restraint upon his stu 
dent and discontinued her training after 20 months. He 
sponsored her transfer into the watch-wizards, hoping the 
structure and regulations could keep her in check. Sarya 
plans on staying with the watch until she learns more mag 
ics, and then striking out on her own; she has thoughts of 
revenge against some wizards of the Hosttower of the 
Arcane in Luskan for transgressions against her and her 
mother. Sarya has also attempted to gain contact with the 
wizard Maaril, though circumstances keep these two from 
meeting; if she becomes more of a problem, she may have 
to be brought to the attentions of Lord or Lady Arunsun 
(Laeral has been keeping a discreet eye on this potential 
powder keg of a mage . . .). 

Blakantar Tagon 

Friends: Almost anyone (DM's choice); Danilo Thann. 

Enemies: Duhlark Kolat, Mhair Szeltune, Maskar Wands 
(while not true enemies, Blakantar Tagon irritates all these 
powerful mages for the central reason that he doesn't 
apparently respect spellcasting traditions, and "makes a 
mockery of wizards and the watch-wizards in particular"; 
many within the Watchful Order sit back with amusement 
or his friends keep the internal politics of the guild from 
harming his career). 

Game Info: Lawful Good male human. Strength 16; Dexterity 
& Intelligence 17; Wisdom 9. Dual class: 2nd-level 
thief/6th-level mage. 19 hp. Worshiper of Mystra, Oghma, 
and Sune. Boots of speed, gloves of missile snaring. 

History: Blakantar Tagon arrived in Waterdeep four years ago, 
a sailor on a merchant ship out of Velen; on the voyage 


north, he learned much beyond his education of shipbuild 
ing from a sage who booked passage north. Once here, he 
never wanted to leave again. Taken in by the sage, the 
engaging and lively Blakantar soon made a name for him 
self as a mage of promise, though not without some mis 
takes along the way (one particular miscasting coated the 
entire southern length of Gut Alley with ice!). He joined 
the watch two years ago and has become one of the rising 
stars of the watch-wizard corps, despite his lack of disci 
pline or respect for "wizardly conduct." 

Terresk 

Friends: Arkiem Arren, Carson Innes, Laran, Olophin, the 
Safehaven staff. 

Enemies: Hammerhand Krabbellor (neither talks about it, but 
their hatred for each other is quite palpable). Lord Asbrior 
Sultlue & Lord Baerom Thunderstaff (on his tour of duty in 
North Ward, Terresk's arrest and testimony got these lords' 
sons sentenced to Undermountain, where they soon died). 

Game Info: Lawful Good male half-ore. Strength 18(98), Wis 
dom 15, Charisma 12. 9th-level fighter. 22 hp. Worshiper 
of Torm. Scimitar of speed. 

History: A former fighting slave from Manshaka, Terresk got his 
terrible scars (and metal mask) from an arena fight against a 
young black dragon. He escaped from his Calishite master 
when he was brought to Waterdeep for an exhibition on the 
Field of Triumph. As a freedman, he swiftly signed on with 
the guard to stay beyond his merchant master's reach; he was 
later tried and acquitted of his former master's murder, after 
the Calishite was found dead in Castle Ward. After a rough 
two-year enlistment in the guard and posting on Deepwater 
Isle, he transferred to the watch (rumors of discord between 
himself and his noble superiors still run rampant), requesting 
that he get a post away from the waterfront. Few know that 
Terresk is afraid of water, ever since he nearly drowned dur 
ing a fight with some smugglers (he was thrown overboard 
with the contraband and it nearly dragged him to the deep 
est depth of the harbor). 

A year ago, after being posted initially in North Ward 
and "not fitting in," Terresk came to the newly built 
Adventurers' Quarter guardpost. During the festival at 
Higharvestide, some magical hijinks (that are still being 
investigated) set fire to the Safehaven Inn; Terresk braved 
the flames pulling out mother and newborn child without a 
scratch. Since then, Terresk has always been welcome at 
the refurbished Safehaven and gets free meals and drink 
from the grateful parents and staff. 

Elistar "Watcher" Thistlebuck 

Friends: The Arrens, the Safehaven staff, Amrani, Rokkek 
Ingerr, Lord Phaulkon, Piatran 

Enemies: Elaith Craulnobur (he wants Watcher to steal Travis' 



11 



Bozv ofHosark, blackmailing him with the safety of Jumna 
Churnbell, Watcher's old flame and comrade) 

Game Info: Neutral Good male halfling. Wisdom 18. 
llth-level thief. Worshiper of Brandobaris and Tymora. 
Brooch of shielding, ring of human influence, ring of protection 
+3, winged boots (21, C). 

History: Bom Elistar Snowcrop Thistlebuck to a breweds fam 
ily in Luiren, he soon gained the name of "Watcher" for his 
habit of always keeping an eye on everything. As an albino, 
young Elistar was ostracized by many halflings due to an old 
farmers' folk tale about albinos being touched by Auril the 
Frostmaiden; though he doesn't worship her. Watcher does 
pay homage to her (simply to keep her appeased). Elistar 
ran away from home at an early age, falling in with adven 
turers around the Deepwash. Journeying west and up the 
Sword Coast, his original company disbanded, but Watcher 
soon met and joined the fledgling Knights of the Sword 
Coast. 

Much of Elistads time with the Knights was spent in good- 
natured argument with Essimuth Lanys; their long-standing 
rivalry over traps disarmed (and their respective difficul 
ties) still sparks some arguments and comments from the 
pair of them. While their initial meeting was a bit frosty 
(maybe Watcher shouldn't have picked his pocket to prove 
his point...), Elistar and Barkess Lanys were great friends. 
Elistar treasures his friendships greatly, as he never got close 
to anyone in Luiren, and they have become his family. Of 
late, he has spent much time with a family of halflings in 
Castle Ward; Vhonna expects to be taken into confidence 
soon about an impending wedding. . . . 

M)mor ChdjiAC TeR RosTerc. 

These characters did not receive full write-ups in the Adven 
turer's Guide, but that doesn't mean they don't have their own 
secrets. These characters leave more room for DMs to add 
mystery and intrigue, since relatively little is known about 
them. Keep in mind that most of these people are servants and 
merchants, but in a city where money and secrets can be just 
as powerful as magic, they shouldn't be underestimated. . . . 

Amrani 

Lawful Neutral; 0-level laborer; 3 hp. 

Amrani has her guesses about the illicit affairs of many of 
the nobles, as she keeps seeing the same faces with different 
clothes or vice versa. Her clients trust her to be discreet, but 
some goings-on amaze her. One man's outfit returned to the 
wash four times in four days (twice in one day!) tom and cov 
ered in makeup and paints (and borne by a different beautiful 
woman each time!). She wouldn't dream of gossiping, but the 
guard officer shouldn't have picked it up himself wearing but a 
cloak! 


Kiber Ederick 

Lawful Good; llth-level Paladin, 59 hp. 

Strength 17; Wisdom 16. 

Every sunrise, after the children have been roused and fed, 
Kiber goes to the House of Heroes for morning prayers. He 
still receives spells from his god, though he rarely uses them. 
In the hidden cellar of Helm's Hall, Kiber keeps his old equip 
ment from his adventuring days: plate mail +1; bastard sword 
+2, flame tongue; ring of water walking; and a bug of holding. 
While many saw him use some items during Myrkul's invasion, 
no one, aside from Vhonna Deepdell, know where these items 
are kept or what they all are. 

Erik 

Chaotic Good; 0-level silversmith, 2 hp. 

Day by day, Erik becomes more and more like a dwarf, save 
in his height. At 6'4", Erik's height used to separate him from 
the other boys and he used his size to bully them. Aside from 
some grudges he (and others) still holds, his anger now focuses 
on working metal. Like a dwarf, he has a tendency to lock 
onto his work to the exclusion of all else (including some 
young women that come to the shop hoping to catch his eye). 

Hemmerem 

Neutral; 0-level laborer, 3 hp. 

In one of his last jobs as a caravan work hand for the Piiradost 
clan, Hemmerem found that slaves were being transported in a 
caravan ("hired servants and specialists from the South" he was 
told) bound for Waterdeep. Attempts were made on his life upon 
returning to the city, and he found a letter ordering his death in 
the writing of Lord Piiradost's elder son. Bringing this to the 
elder lord, Hemmerem was given money to keep this news quiet 
(and young Piiradost was sent to live with lesser relatives in Iri- 
aebor). For his discretion, Hemmerem also receives work with 
the family horse-breeding business, though Arum Tarm's con 
nections with the young stablemaster begin to irritate the elder, 
more powerful Lord Piiradost. . . . 

Ariel Heremet 

Chaotic Good; 0-level laborer, 2 hp. 

Ariel's origins are a mystery, especially to her. Stynirr and Kaylor 
Heremet arrived in Waterdeep from Cormyr twenty years ago, 
Ariel being less than a year old. She does not resemble either of her 
parents (though her brother and sister do). She's beginning to real 
ize she was adopted, but no one ever put the question to her par 
ents before (or after) their deatfis. She recently found an old letter 
from Vangerdahast of Cormyr to her father in an old trunk of his 
(recovered from storage at the Spires of the Morning), stating that 
"you and your family should be safe from prying eyes in Water- 
deep." While curious, she asserts that a simple barmaid from 
Waterdeep "certainly has no business requesting an audience with 
the Royal Magician of Cormyr, should I ever travel there ..." 


12 



Donar Heremet 

Lawful Neutral; lst-level thief, 3 hp. 

Dexterity 18; Constitution 17. 

Equipment: Leather amor +2, dagger of homing, short sword 
Donar's typical pranks are classic (bucket of water over a 
door, loosened straps on a saddle for quick release, a bag of 
refuse set on fire on the doorstep, etc.) and Safehaven patrons 
become used to seeing Donar flee through the taproom fol 
lowed by Bannor or Watcher. 

Donar's equipment and training come from Essimuth, who 
"knew the little fool would always be sticking his nose where 
excitement was, so he needed something to help keep him and 
his friends alive. ..." Donar, of course, likes to surprise people 
so he doesn't announce any of this to his family until the 
Knights are assembled and leaving. 

Edrianna Heremet 

Lawful Good; 0-level laborer, 3 hp. 

Edrianna's ring is a ring of warmth given to her by her father 
when she was four. As a child, she was frail and constantly 
fought off chills. Her father had the ring created especially for 
her; it acts as a standard item of its type, though it also gives 
Edrianna an immunity to nonmagical diseases as long as she 
wears it. 

Of everyone she knows, only Bannor and Ariel realize the 
fears that drive Edrianna to such vain displays of "happiness." 
She is deathly afraid that the ill luck that killed her parents 
will happen to her; as a result, she secretly and quite fervently 
worships Beshaba the Maiden of Misfortune in hopes of pre 
venting any bad luck from befalling her or the ones she loves. 


hopes to collect at least four others before setting out on 
adventures; if he can gather enough people in time, they can 
act as caravan guards for Lord Phaulkon in his first spring cara 
van to Murann. He is so focused on his goal, he has never 
noticed how Arana Lanys looks at him. . . . 

"Hammerhand" Krabbellor 

Lawful Neutral; 0-level laborer, 5 hp. 

Equipment: Iron hammer-hand (ld6 points of bludgeoning 
damage to living targets). 

Krabbellor's first name is Dukar, though he hasn't told any 
one this fact in twelve years and he's almost forgotten his 
actual name by now. Hammerhand's dearest wish is to find the 
wizard and his half-ore bodyguard that killed his brother in 
Cormyr and kill them in return. 

Lauhren 

Chaotic Good; lst-level priestess of Lliira, 5 hp. 

Wisdom 16; Charisma 14. 

Equipment: Bracers of defense AC 5, rope of entanglement. 

Her equipment comes as a gift from Rachel to her in keep 
ing with Lliira's faith in the girl. She is eager to be off and into 
the wild world, as she's never left Waterdeep's confines in her 
life. Much of her excitement stems from realizing that, once 
out of her dreary job and washerwoman rags, she really is a 
beautiful person (as she begins to realize with Kharkos' and 
Jan's reactions to her). Upon meeting him, she has fallen in 
love with Jan Hunabar, and he is interested in her (though he 
hasn't pursued her, seeing his growing love for her as "a test of 
my honor and resolve" and his zeal to be a paladin). 


Imerra Ingerr 

Lawful Neutral; 0-level merchant-wife, 2 hp. 

Imerra knows nothing of Rokkek's financial troubles or his 
gambling, though she does know that he has less and less 
available coin and he is gone most of the time. She does sense 
his tension and, as they are far from close, she seeks comfort in 
her music and her wine, neither of which works for her. 


Bannor Karralo 

Lawful Good; 0-level barkeep, 7 hp. 

Strength 17; Constitution 17. 

Bannor used to work at the Wizards' Rest, a tiny little tavern 
in Sea Ward that closed 7 years ago upon the death of Bannor's 
mother. Bannor owns a small house on Coach Street near the 
Trollwall and is fixing it up for his impending marriage. 


Kharkos 

Chaotic Good; lst-level fighter, 8 hp. 

Strength 16; Dexterity 15; Charisma 17. 

Equipment: Chain mail +1, long sword, shield. 

Kharkos is eager to form his adventuring company and 


Alek Lenter 

Neutral Evil; 3rd-level thief, 9 hp. 

Strength 17, Dexterity 17, Wisdom 15. 

Equipment: dagger of venom. 

Alek Lenter is a fence of rising influence in the city, even 
after only four months of business. He is also a spy and contact 
point for the Shadow Thieves' Guild. He has been notified by 
Avaereene about the Xanathar's interest in using him as a 
front, and Alek plans in turn to betray the beholder crime lord 
and bring the influence of the Shadow Thieves back into 
Waterdeep. Many of his primary contacts (a.k.a. thieves) 
within the city meet him at the Thirsty Throat tavern 
(including the barkeep). 

Cial Myntion 

Chaotic Neutral; 0-level barmaid, 4 hp. 

Strength 15; Constitution 18. 

Cial is, in many ways, the exact opposite of her sister Branta. 
She is loud, brash, and ebullient, always looking for some fun (in 
contrast to her sister's reticence and love of quiet study). While 
she has a number of friends, especially the watch members, she 


13 


has no one really close to her. She knows Hemmerem has a 
romantic interest in her, but she's unsure of how she feels. She's 
waiting for him to get the nerve up to approach her, as it takes 
courage to approach this intimidating woman. 

Quallos Myntion 

Chaotic Neutral; 0-level brewer, 2 hp. 

Quallos is a member of rising importance in the Vintners', 
Distillers', and Brewers' Guild, primarily due to the fact that 
he has shared many of his own recipes with the guild. He is 
intent on introducing lagers to Waterdeep; he "acquired" some 
of the brewing ingredients and methods of the Golden Sands 
breweries through contacts and looks to make his fortunes 
with them, banking on the distance and lack of information to 
protect him from reprisal. 

Owen 

Neutral Good; lst-level fighter, 7 hp. 

Constitution 19; Intelligence 14. 

Equipment: Scale mail, bardiche, dagger, tent. 

Since Trolltide, Owen kept the few magical alterations 
made to him by the necklaces of Vahje, most noticeably his 
green hair. Still, not even Owen is aware that he has the 
regenerative capabilities of a troll now. He joined the new 
Knights of the Sword Coast and looks forward to the adven 
ture; all of his equipment was left to him by his father who 
passed away two years ago. 

Lady Marie Phaulkon 

Chaotic Neutral; 0-level merchant, 2 hp. 

In secret, the thrill-seeking Marie has taken up the idle worship 
of Loviatar with two of her lovers. While she just believes this is a 
lark, the cult leader (one Nathyn Powerl) may just use her and her 
friends to gain some money and influence through them (unless 
they want their parents to know what they've been up to). 

Despite her devil-may-care attitude and flippant lifestyle, 
Marie is intelligent and quite capable of handling her father's 
business. She just hasn't let her family see that side of her, as 
they "always favored Jeryth, their baby" more than her. 

Piatran 

Lawful Evil; 0-level merchant, 4 hp. 

Equipment: Scarab of protection 

Piatran creates clothes, cloaks being his specialty. With his 
contacts at the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors, he 
can obtain magical cloaks (but only for customers who are 
vouched for by Madame Garah, Nindil Jalbuck, and Watcher 
Thistlebuck). The magical cloaks are available at 40% greater 
than their experience point total in gp. If someone truly 
insults him by quoting a ridiculous price in seriousness to him, 
he will proffer a magical cloak created but never picked up by 
a Sembian wizard; it acts as a ring of warmth and provides a 


100% ability to move silently, but cannot be removed once 
the metal neck clasp snaps shut and adds +1 to all dice of fire 
damage due to the warmth effect. 

Trahnt 

Lawful Good; 3rd-level fighter, 9 hp. 

Strength 19; Intelligence & Wisdom 14; Charisma 10. 
Equipment: Ring of water walking (worn as earring) 

Trahnt returned from Undermountain a changed man, as he 
entered the Yawning Portal as a gnome and exited much later 
as a male hill giant! Trahnt lay dying among his slain com 
rades, victims of Bone Gnasher and his Dusk Gnolls, on the 
second level of Undermountain when an old wizard happened 
along. As the often retold story goes: 

"I was lying there, expecting to draw my last breath any 
time when this cackling comes out of the darkness. I can't 
see everything as my helm slipped over my eyes and I 
couldn't move. 'Copper on dead man's eyes, oooh pretty 
bauble, copper on dead man's eyes,' I heard him say, and he 
touched each body. He came to me, pokes me with his staff, 
says 'Copper on -say, you're still here! Oho, does Hilather 
get to have some fun? Does he? Does he?' Next thing I 
know, there's magic swirling about my sight. I saw his hand 
and a coin in it, magic all around, and he flipped the coin. 
'Heads or tails, boy; it's up to Tymora to save ye now!' he 
yelled, and then walked through a wall! The coin hit me, 
and I'm suddenly at the bottom of the well at the Yawning 
Portal with my entrance coin and three blood-red rubies the 
size of my new fists! Mind you, they weren't too sure about 
hoisting up a naked hill giant, but that Durnan's a good 
judge of character!" 

Once in Waterdeep, Trahnt sold the rubies to buy his tav 
ern and a house along the Way of the Dragon. Despite initial 
misgivings, people learned to accept Trahnt due to his cheerful 
nature. Kids naturally gravitate to him and he finds himself 
yearning for a companion, though height and looks don't mat 
ter to him as much as they once did. 



The TRuTb of 
The MaTTeR 

his chapter is the second half of the "Secrets of the Adventurers' Quarter" and 
it involves more details about the "Scenes & Sundries" chapter in the Adven 
turer's Guide to the City. This chapter doesn't repeat the players' infonnation; it 
simply reveals anything left unsaid, points out more particulars, and uncovers 
the truth about any rumors. In fact, many of the scenes are expanded, adding 
some action that occurs just after the scene starts; most often, this tactic is used to present PCs 
with conflicting or competing adventure hooks ("Do we ask that guy about that rumored treasure, 
or do we take that offered commission as caravan guards?") or distractions ("We were about to 
take that job when the watch came in and arrested one of our contacts and the rest fled!"). 

Behind The Scewes 

C hapter Six of the Adventurer's Guide to the City provides scenes and rumors for starting 
adventures. Not all of them lead to quests, though all are potentials for role-playing. 
Below, each scene's actions are explained, and any unstated material is here for the DM to 
role-play if the plot is pursued. As well, the "Action" section adds activity to provoke PCs if 
they don't take up anything from the adventure scene! 

Such a Deal. . . 

Secrets 

• The gentleman getting fleeced at cards is Otyn Constynt, an Amnite trader and a known 
Knight of the Shield. Nindil's plan is to provoke him to extreme actions and necessitate 
his expulsion from Waterdeep (dead or alive). Otyn's original intent was to meet with 
contacts from Umberlee's Lover , a ship out of Luskan, and ferry information down south; 
the ship is days late to the harbor due to the storm. To kill the time, he came here and 
started a card game with a seemingly gullible halfling and a clothing merchant. Having 
lost 75 gp, he and his bodyguards plan to kill Nindil later for beating them at cards. 

• Piatran was waiting for a customer with a package (a clonk of protection +1), but the client 
is over two hours late and he fell into the card game. The package is wrapped in oilcloth 
and is bound in twine, and rests underneath his chair. 

• Something slaughtered three horses at Hemmerem's Stables last night, clawing them to 
death and partially eating them. Hemmerem was assuring Arum Tarm that his horses were 
untouched; Arum heard him wrong and, being surly about his missing fiancee, assumed it 
was an accusation that he had something to do with the dead horses. Lord Tarm is drunk 
and is spoiling for a fight, unless something is done to cool him down. 

• The Myntions received news on the whereabouts of Luther, their wayward paladin son; he 
was last seen in Iriaebor, suffering from grave wounds, though no one knows his fate. 

> Alek Lenter's glee is due to the sale of a fenced item (DM's choice of buyers & item). 

Action 

• A brawl ensues when Olophin gets up to leave. He is confronted by three mercenaries he 
arrested and jailed a few months back-they are eager to get some revenge while the civilar is 
unarmed, but many in the tavern will jump to Olophin's aid. During the brawl, someone steals 
Piatran's package. 









TizolXTi&hjgs 

Secrets 

• The Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors made the neck 
laces. With minor materials and magic for their trivial effect, 
the "troll growl" necklaces disintegrate after ten hours. 

• The necklaces were given to watch-wizards throughout the 
city to distribute to children in their patrol area; Blakantar 
Tagon gave his four necklaces to Kiber Ederick to give to his 
children (two of the necklaces were the metal variety). 

• The metal necklaces were made by Hlaavin, the greater 
doppelganger who slew Vahje the wizard (W16) and 
absorbed his identity and spellcasting knowledge. He used 
the Trolltide necklaces to cover up some slayings by his 
Unseen (a few still aren't noticed yet . . . ). 

Action 

• This is occurring all over the city; the watch is under orders 
not to harm the children and will try to hold others to such. 

• If PCs attempt to physically pull the necklaces off the chil 
dren, they break, but the magic is released and the child 
becomes a troll! This also happens if the child is struck by 
any magic less than fourth-level save dispel magic or remove 
curse! Luckily, this effect only lasts for twelve rounds, but 
the child may not be alive later if PCs are overzealous! 

• A visit to the Tower of the Order (C15) uncovers the mages 
who made the necklaces, but the fifth mage - the one who 
made the metal necklaces for lucky children to keep and use 
each year -is missing! Any attempts to locate the mage, 
magical or otherwise, are unsuccessful. 

• By dawn the next day, the watch found all the necklaces and 
destroyed them. Among the more tragic occurrences, Citta 
Hothemer turned into a troll and killed her two elder brothers 
before Maskar Wands ended her enchantment. Other casual 
ties are Narim (a ship captain from the Border Kingdoms), 
Wulve Raaikyn (a textiles merchant and rumored thief), and 
Blayk Rintas (ward civilar of Dock Ward). 

• One person with side-effects is one of the young lads met on 
Slop Street (assuming they aren't killed); three months 
later, his hair remains green and he has the regenerative 
power of a troll. He now wishes to become a fighter and join 
Kharkos' new Knights of the Sword Coast. 

The Ret urn of The Blue Axe 

Secrets 

• Arkiem knows full well what is happening. He was con 
tacted previously by Khelben, the current keeper of 
Azuredge, and this ruse was set up. While Arkiem doesn't 
know Khelben's reasons for setting up this ruse, he knows 
the axe chooses its own wielder and that person (and com 
rades) will, be watched carefully by him. This is his current 
mission for the Harpers. 

• Alcedor Kolat is enough of a study that he knows of the leg 


ends of Azuredge and has encountered it once before, at the 
fall of the Allies mentioned in the song. While he has never 
mentioned it to anyone, he watched from a nearby rooftop 
when Azuredge was teleported away by the sorceress Caryn; 
he knows the axe is only a few centuries old, but he wants to 
know more about its enchantments and how it was made. 

• Nindil Jalbuck is here, and in a foul mood; he'll tell folk that 
rodents got into his produce and he lost a fair amount before 
the cats caught them. In truth, he is disgusted with the manip 
ulations that are afoot: "Knowing or not, we are all entrenched 
in yet another of Khelben's pet projects where we are only to 
know so much and nothing more!" He, Brian, Mirt, and Kit 
ten were against this manipulation of unsuspecting adventur 
ers until Khelben would reveal more about some "portents that 
warned of ill times to come for Waterdeep," but the plan goes 
ahead, despite their questions. 

Action 

• A number of veteran adventurers can be on hand to try to 
claim the axe. Even if others are worthy, the DM can hold 
Azuredge for the PCs. The action results in a number of befud 
dled looks by paladins walking away muttering, "I could have 
sworn it talked to me . . . said it wasn't my destiny . . ." 

• A few rowdy Northmen, unable to pull the axe free, take 
their regular axes to the post, intending to carve Azuredge 
out. All three are 4th-level fighters with 28 hit points, and 
all are armed with hand axes. 

• Should any evil beings attempt to pull the axe from the post, 
DMs can choose the effects of this good artifact on them. 

On The KN)fe's Edge 

Secrets 

• The Buckleswashers were tipped off that the Trumpet building 
was a front for the Knife's Edge assassins. They are here search 
ing for clues to implicate Carson Innes as a crimelord. The tip 
came from an anonymous source; that source is an agent of a 
noblewoman who wants Carson inconvenienced by the 
halflings for what he printed about her three days ago. 

• The noblewoman's agent is secretly one of the Unseen; they 
want Carson Innes out of the way, believing he knows about 
them, and they can use the ploy with the Buckleswashers to 
frame Innes of murder. 

Action 

• If the PCs and the Buckleswashers fight or talk for more 
than four rounds, the watch will find and arrest them all. 

> Gath was strangled by the doppelganger and consumed by a 
palimpsest (see the new MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r) 
entry in the box) set at his desk and later removed. The 
doppelganger arrives later as Gath's wife; when Gath is not 
found, she will accuse Carson Innes of foul play. 


16 


Curst 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any (prefer subterranean) 

FREQUENCY: 

Rare; Uncommon (in Waterdeep) 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any (prefer night) 

DIET: 

None 

INTELLIGENCE: 

See below 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Any; usually nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Chaotic neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

2-11 (Idl0+1) 

ARMOR CLASS: 

7 (or as armor worn) 

MOVEMENT: 

12 

HIT DICE: 

See below 

THAC0: 

See below 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-4, or as weapon 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

85% 

SIZE: 

M (rarely, S or L) 

MORALE: 

Average (8-10) 

XP VALUE: 

120-2,000 (see below) 


Curst are unfortunate undead humans, trapped under a curse that 
will not let them die. 

Curst are created by touching a victim while casting a bestow curse 
spell (the reverse of the 3rd-level priest spell or 4th-level wizard 
spell remove curse), and within four rounds adding a properly-worded 
wish spell -a rare process. When becoming a curst, a victim's align 
ment changes to chaotic neutral. The victim's skin pales to an 
unearthly white pallor, and his or her eyes turn black while the iris 
color deepens, becoming small pools of glinting dark color; a curst 
has 90' infravision (as well as normal vision) and prefers darkness to 
light. Curst tend toward silence, and do not age once they become 
undead. 

Curst favor leather armor, cloaks with hoods, and boots. Their 
garb is always dark in color, though some still maintain the original 
clothing they wore when alive. Rot grubs infect 15% of all curst, 
which have 1-6 fewer hit points but are otherwise unimpaired if so 
afflicted. Note that the grubs will be seeking a better meal, like any 
attacking player character. . . . 

Combat: Curst retain any ability bonuses and nonmagical skills they 
possessed in their previous lives; for example, fighters still maintain 
their enhanced Strength scores (18 to 18/00), thieves keep their 
rogue abilities, and any characters keep their nonweapon proficien 
cies, but all spellcasting abilities are lost upon a victim becoming a 
curst. Therefore, fighting a curst is nearly identical to fighting a nor 
mal warrior or rogue, though the curst has additional abilities 
beyond those of living beings. 

Curst are immune to mind-related spells such as charm, ESP, hold, 
and sleep. They are unaffected by cold- or fire-based attacks of any 
sort, and life-energy draining attacks are similarly ineffective. 
Though they are technically undead, they cannot be turned by 
priests or paladins, and holy water has no special effect on them. 

Curst can, however, be struck by any weapons. They can use any 
weapon allowed by their former character class, and will seize better 
weapons than their own when available; while a curst's magic resis 
tance affects all spells cast on it, it does not inhibit the use of magi 
cal items and weapons by the curst or its foe. If a curst is unarmed, it 
attacks by kicking, biting, and clawing savagely for 1-4 points of 
damage per round (plus any Strength modifiers). 

If reduced to 0 hit points, curst are not slain. They fall to the 
ground, paralyzed, and lie there until they are whole again. Curst 



regenerate 1 hit point per day, and are able to regrow lost limbs and 
organs; if decapitated, the curst's body will disintegrate into dust, 
and the new body regenerates from the head (this process takes 
twice as many days as the curst has hit points), which remains para 
lyzed until the body is reformed. Curst can be healed by cure magics. 

Habitat/Society: Curst are in no way controlled by their creators, 
and seldom serve them except to attain the mercy of death by means 
of a remove curse spell. Often, coming to know their cruel doom, 
curst attack their creators, hoping they will destroy them in self- 
defense. Once destroyed, curst cannot be resurrected or animated to 
become other forms of undead, since their bodies crumble into dust. 

In the process of becoming curst, humans lose their sense of 
smell, any magical abilities, and often their minds (but not their 
cunning); only 11% of the curst retain then full, former intelli 
gence, while most maintain a standard Intelligence score of 8. In 
addition, there is a 5% chance per turn (noncumulative) that a 
curst will act very irrationally - breaking off a fight to sing, skip 
and dance, draw with a finger on a nearby wall, stare intently at 
something, etc.-for 1-6 rounds; during this time, nothing can 
distract the curst, even attacks, except the casting of a remove 
curse, which elicits a smile and a whispery thanks from the curst as 
it collapses rapidly into dust. 

Ecology: Curst eat nothing and have no real ecological niche to fill 
in the Realms. However, the dust that remains after their destruc 
tion (or decapitation) is being studied by wizards and alchemists for 
potential uses (Uidos, a wizard from Telflamm, found it increases the 
duration of paralytic spells like slow and hold person). 

During the Time of Troubles, many folk slam within wild magic 
zones became curst. At least 20 watch members and 30 guard mem 
bers spontaneously became curst while fighting the minions of 
Myrkul in Waterdeep, and they now allegedly wander the sewers of 
Waterdeep and the upper halls of Undermountain still clad as 
Waterdeep's protectors. 


1109 






Doppelganger, Greater 



(r) (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


Any 
Very rare 
Solitary 
Any 

Omnivore 

Exceptional to Genius (15-18) 
G, U (x3) 

Neutral evil 
1-4 
2 

12 

9 

11 

2 

1 - 12 / 1-12 
See below 
See below 
See below 
M-L 

Fanatic (17-18) 

4,000 


Common doppelgangers can easily mimic the forms of humans, 
demihumans, and humanoids, but their greater cousins, sometimes 
called in ancient texts as "mirrorkin," have augmented those abili 
ties to the point of perfection, allowing these shapechangers to 
adopt the exact forms of humans or humanoids and their very 
identities! 

Like their relatives, greater doppelgangers are bipedal humanoids 
with a tough, hairless gray hide, which maintains that toughness 
regardless of the disguise (granting a minimum AC of 2). The 
greater doppelganger is faster and more agile than normal doppel 
gangers. 

Combat: This monster can assume the shape of any humanoid crea 
ture between four and eight feet in height, as a normal doppel 
ganger. Greater doppelgangers have powers of ESP and telepathy, 
which allow them to peer into the minds of intended victims and 
assume forms that are disarming to their prey; once the victim is off 
guard, the greater doppelganger takes its victim in its arms and stabs 
him in the back with its claws. Some shapechangers take care to 
shape their claws so the wounds, which still deal the same damage, 
appear to be deep dagger or sword thrusts. Once its victim is dead, 
the greater doppelganger ingests the victim's brain; after that, the 
greater doppelganger can assume that person's form with 100% 
accuracy, complete with the person's memories, abilities, and align 
ment. (See "Habitat/Society" below for more on this mind-absorp 
tion ability and its effects.) 

Greater doppelgangers also have another advantage over their 
lesser relatives in enhanced intelligence and imagination. As a 
result, they can create a totally unique face and body without imitat 
ing someone else's face. This aids them in escaping into crowds, ran 
domly shifting clothes and faces around each corner. 

Greater doppelgangers are immune to sleep, charm, and hold spells. 
Due to their unique brain structures, they are likewise immune to 
any detect alignment magics. Disguised greater doppelgangers can 
only be revealed by use of true seeing spells; their mental and physical 
disguises are even able to fool most psionics. All saving throws are 
roiled as if they are 18th-level fighters. 

Habitat/Society: Doppelgangers' tribal societies still hold true for 
the greater version of this creature, but the greater doppelgangers 
tend to lead any collection of their kind (both greater and lesser). 
While they may ally with others, greater doppelgangers refuse to be 



controlled or led by anyone or anything other than one of their own. 

The greater doppelganger has a unique society in and of itself, 
since it absorbs the minds and personalities of its victims, and these 
are active whenever the shapechanger uses that particular form. 
When the victim's form is worn, the creature has all of the victim's 
physical and mental and magical abilities (though not clerical, since 
these gifts are determined from above); greater doppelgangers can 
even absorb the identities of paladins, though all healing and special 
abilities beyond fighting skills are lost. Greater doppelgangers can 
absorb up to eight separate and distinct identities; if they attempt to 
absorb more identities beyond that, there is a 50% chance that one 
of the creature's absorbed identities is lost in favor of the new one. 

If the doppelganger has to perform actions that run counter to its 
identity's alignment, it needs to change form or is immediately 
forced into its base form for 1-10 rounds. In its base form, it has lim 
ited access to all the memories of its identities (use of known lan 
guages, general information); the greater doppelganger is incapable 
of manifesting another person's identity when in another form. 
Regardless of its form, a greater doppelganger can use magical items, 
provided it knows how they function. 

Ecology: The greater doppelgangers of Waterdeep, under the leader 
ship of Hlaavin, are by far the most sophisticated and clever doppel 
gangers in the Realms. With their abilities to permanently adopt 
certain identities, their plans and goals have gone far beyond simple 
larceny. The shapechangers have penetrated the power groups in 
Waterdeep without suspicion, and they want to keep it that way. 

Hlaavin's long-reaching plans for the Unseen (see Who's Who, 
Chapter Five) now involve using its female identities to engender 
a child from an irresponsible young noble, thereby creating a 
greater doppelganger with at least an illegitimate tie to the for 
tunes of some Waterdhavian family. It simply doesn't relish the 
idea of being tied to one form for that extended a period of time 
(since it must stay in female form during the pregnancy for the 
offspring to be viable). 















Duhlarkin 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Generic 

Wolveraven 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any 

Any sub-arctic 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Any 

DIET: 

See below 

Omnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

See below 

Animal (1) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Nil 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

1-4 

ARMOR CLASS: 

See below 

4/5 

MOVEMENT: 

See below 

6, FI 12 (D) 

HIT DICE: 

See below 

3+2 

THACO: 

See below 

17 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

See below 

3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

See below 

2-5/2-5/2-5 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

See below 

Wing spurs 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

Nil 

SIZE: 

See below 

M 

MORALE: 

See below 

Elite (13-14) 

XP VALUE: 

See below 

175 


Duhlarkin are unique creatures created through the use of a highly 
specialized form of polymorph other called Duhlark's Animerge (see 
Campaign Guide to the City, Chapter Seven). This spell allows the 
caster to fuse two creatures together into one original, amalga 
mated form, allowing traits from each creature to remain dominant 
in its new singular form. The creature acquires basic attributes 
from each of the animals involved in the spell, from body shape 
and size to movement modes, speed, and attack and defense modes 
(all the above statistics). If the caster is a transmuter, the caster 
can choose which traits are adopted in the new form and create 
new ones if desired; if not, the creature created is randomly deter 
mined by the Dungeon Master. Any creature created by means of 
this spell is generically referred to as "Duhlarkin," named after the 
spell's creator. 

Combat: The combat tactics and weapons of a Duhlarkin are deter 
mined by the two core animals; choose particular attacks of each of 
the animals and those are the attack modes of the merged creature. 
Keep in mind that body shape determines and alters some attack 
forms (see "Wolveraven" below). 

Habitat/Society: The behavior patterns of a Duhlarkin resemble 
the dominant animal mind within it; for example, a bear merged 
with an eagle could produce a hibernating avian that is extremely 
protective of its territory (bear behavior). Unlike the results of 
many other polymorph spells, the creatures created by Duhlark's 
Animerge can reproduce with other creatures of its kind (either 
another Duhlarkin or one of its source animals). Breeding a Duh 
larkin with a source animal (for example, breeding a wolveraven 
with a giant raven) has a 25% chance of producing a viable 
wolveraven (50% chance of raven offspring, 25% stillborn), and 
breeding two like Duhlarkin has only a 50% chance of creating 
live offspring (50% stillborn). 

Ecology: For years, Duhlark Kolat's fascination with monsters such 
creatures as chimerae, hippogriffs, owlbears, and perytons led him 
to believe that transmutation magics were once in common use 
and the continued existence of such illogical creatures suggested 
that such creations were magically created but could eventually 



breed true and become viable species. Duhlark envisioned a simple 
dream of using such magics to create larger domesticated animals 
to prevent food shortages or perhaps creating a war horse with 
armor-plated skin. 

Duhlark created his animerge spell and continues to test it, creat 
ing creatures to study and examining their viability and usefulness 
for Toril. Many of his experiments meet with failure. (Duhlark's first 
experiment with merging warm-blooded mammals and insects -a 
cricket and a cat -created a feline of such inordinate strength and 
leaping ability that, with one startled jump, it embedded itself into 
the ceiling of his tower.) Some, however, are proving stable enough 
for continued existence, such as the badgeram, an omnivorous crea 
ture with a ram's horns, the tenacity and ferocity of a badger (as well 
as its foreclaws), and an innate protectiveness about its territory -a 
creature that guards a herd of sheep from wolves with no danger of it 
turning on the herd. 

Wolveraven 

One of Duhlark's original creations, the wolveraven is a cross 
between a giant raven and a wolverine. Having created four of them 
and bred six more through them, Duhlark considers this carnivore a 
success. (Duhlark gave one to Khelben as a token of respect and as a 
sign of his achievement.) While originally created as a curiosity, the 
wolveraven could survive well in the mountains north of the city, 
according to Duhlark, both reducing the overpopulation of moun 
tain goats and providing a balance against an astonishing number of 
dangerous perytons that nest therein. 

The wolveraven has a seven-foot wingspan, and its hind claws are 
strong enough to carry a small halfling (or claw at one twice, the 
wolverine's claw damage increased to ld4+l due to the raven's supe 
rior leg strength). Its most damaging attacks are its bite (same as 
wolverine) and the bone spurs along the upper edge of its wings. A 
wolveraven can perform a swooping dive and slash at an opponent 
with its wing spurs, dealing 2-12 points of damage to any target in a 
passing attack that can also impale prey of V tall or smaller. 






Ghaunadan 


~ .. 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


Subterranean 

Rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Carnivore 

Very (12) to Highly (14) 

Incidental 

Chaotic evil 

1-4 

1 

12 

5 

15 

2 

3-12 

See below 
See below 
Nil 

M 5-6' 

Fanatic (17) 

4,000 


These vile, intelligent beasts are the loyal servants of Ghaunadaur, 
the god of oozes, slimes, and jellies. Ghaunadan are intelligent oozes 
that have full control of their semiliquid bodies. Ghaunadan can 
move, at half their normal movement rate, through small cracks, 
gratings, or even under doors. These creatures move at that same 
rate on walls and ceilings. 

Further, a ghaunadan can control its body and change forms (for 
up to 15 hours at a time) to that of a humanoid creature; most 
appear as human males, but there are one or two rumored to have 
female drow forms. A ghaunadan requires one full round to assume 
or drop its humanoid shape, and, when in humanoid shape, it favors 
the colors and styles also worn by Ghaunadaur's priests: Copper, 
amber, flame-orange, russet, plum, purple, lilac, and lavender. 

Combat: In ooze form, a ghaunadan lashes out with two 
pseudopods, each successful attack inflicting 3-12 (3d4) points of 
damage. Victims of this attack are struck with the ghaunadan's 
paralytic slime; each struck victim must save vs. paralysis at a +2 
bonus or be paralyzed for 2-12 (2d6) turns. Also, a ghaunadan's 
semiliquid body is resistant to bludgeoning blows (half damage 
from such attacks). In its ooze form, a ghaunadan can forego all 
physical attacks in a round and choose to mold itself around an 
opponent's weapon; when a successful attack hits the ghaunadan, 
the weapon sinks into its mass, but the ghaunadan firms its skin 
around the weapon, trapping it like a fly in amber. Characters 
need to make a bend bars/lift gates roll to free their weapons, or 
abandon them inside the ghaunadan. 

The ghaunadan's humanoid form is a unique individual that is 
always pleasant to those beholding it (Charisma 15 or greater). If 
a humanoid ghaunadan looks into someone's eyes, its gaze has an 
effect identical to a friends spell that lasts as long as the ghau 
nadan remains visible to its targets. If the ghaunadan leaves the 
area, or assumes its true form, the additional friends effect ends 
immediately. Note that a ghaunadan cannot form clothing, armor, 
or weapons from itself. Such items must be obtained from other 
sources. Victims of the ghaunadan are common targets for a crea 
ture seeking such items. A ghaunadan in humanoid form can 
attack with its pseudopods (stretching its arms and hands into 
blobs), but may choose not to reveal its true nature by doing so. In 
this case, a ghaunadan will make use of any available and appro 
priate weapons. 



Habitat/Society: Ghaunadan live any any subterranean area where 
prey is accessible. They tend to live alone, though they often reside 
near (and lead) other slime- or ooze-based creatures. 

Ghaunadan also actively serve their god. Groups of ghaunadan 
can be found in areas where foes of Ghaunadaur are active. Several 
ghaunadan exist in Undermountain, the vast dungeon beneath 
Waterdeep, where they keep watch over the temple of Eilistraee 
(near the subterranean city of Skullport). Recently, rumors have sur 
faced that humanoid ghaunadan may be operating in Waterdeep 
itself in an attempt to infiltrate and spy upon the City of Splendor's 
powerful social circles. 

Ecology: Ghaunadan hunt by roaming the area where they live, be 
it cave, city, tunnel, or dungeon, until they spy prey or intruders. 
Ghaunadan then take humanoid form (to draw intended victims 
closer) or hide in ooze form until prey are within range of its melee 
attack. Ghaunadan cannot consume inorganic items such as armor, 
rings, or metallic weapons. Unless the ghaunadan makes use of these 
items in its humanoid form, these things are generally left where 
they were dropped by the ghaunadan's victim. 

Their exact origins unknown, the theories (in Skullport, since no 
one in Waterdeep has deduced their existence there) point toward a 
rise in the Elder Eye's (Ghaunadar's) power in the Realms again. 
Some say the ghaunadan arrived by ships from Calimshan to Skull 
port, and they were human priests so vile and evil they sacrificed 
their true forms to Ghaunadar for these powers (and the ability to 
temporarily resume their original forms, with enhanced Charisma, 
to preach to the races above and procure victims for Ghaunadar 
(through subterfuge or combat, though the Elder Eye prefers his vic 
tims willing). Others, including those drow of Eilistraee's temple, 
believe ghaunadan to be oozes with intelligence. In either case, they 
have established a small temple to Ghaunadar in a hidden cellar 
beneath a warehouse in Waterdeep's Dock Ward. 

















Gulguthydra 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Swamp or subterranean 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Omnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Incidental 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

6 

HIT DICE: 

15 

THACO: 

5 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

8 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

2-12 (x2)/5-12 (x6) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Grab 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

H (20') 

MORALE: 

Champion (16) 

XP VALUE: 

10,000 


The gulguthydrae combine the worst attributes of the gulguthras 
(otyughs and neo-otyughs) and hydrae. Six misshapen hydra heads 
perch in a circle atop the hulking body of this hybrid, which also 
possesses the gulguthra's two ridged tentacles. The beast's skin is 
hard, almost rocklike, and its dingy gray to dusky brown coloration 
aids it in hiding within its chosen domains - dark swamps or caverns 
and dungeons. Three squat legs provide locomotion while the two 
tentacles constantly check the vicinity for edible materials. 
Gulguthydrae noticeably smell of rot and decay. 

Combat: Gulguthydrae are always on the hunt, running their ridged 
tentacles over the ground and walls or trees searching for food. 
When such is found, the tentacles lift the foodstuffs to the mouths 
of the hydrae. If the "food" resists, the tentacles strike, each doing 
2-12 points of damage. If the gulguthra's attack roll is at least 4 
greater than what was needed to strike the target, the target is 
grabbed. A grabbed victim may attempt a bend bars/lift gates roll to 
escape every round after the first; a grabbed victim suffers 2-7 points 
of damage per round, and they are also lifted toward one of the hydra 
heads for consumption. A hydra head bites a target held by a tenta 
cle with a +4 attack bonus and inflicts 5-12 (ld8+4) points of dam 
age (this attack occurs the first round after the victim is grabbed). 
Up to two heads can bite a target held in a tentacle, and the hydra 
heads also can attack on their own. Thus, a gulguthydra can attack 
up to eight targets in a round (one for each tentacle, and one per 
hydra head) without penalty. 



Habitat/Society: These creatures are so rare that it is unknown if 
they have any language of their own or if they are able to communi 
cate with other creatures at all. Little is known of any society these 
creatures may have. 

Gulguthydrae consume any animal or vegetable matter, be it liv 
ing or dead, fresh or rotted. Driven by its hunger, a gulguthydra will 
not pursue active prey if sufficient amounts (50-100 lbs.) of other, 
passive, foodstuffs are available. Despite the exposure to light, two 
gulguthydrae existed within the deep confines of the Rat Hills 
before fire drove them out. Waterdeep's guard is keeping a sharp eye 
and ear to the sewers, in case any smaller creatures of this sort fled 
into them during the Rat Hills Conflagration. (A sewer outlet tun 
nel ran out to the Rat Hills.) 

Ecology: This disgusting creature is believed to be the product of 
the many wild magic surges around Waterdeep and the Sword Coast 
during the Time of Troubles; as of yet, this domain (specifically, the 
Rat Hills and the Mere of Dead Men) is the only reported site of 
these creatures. 

Gulguthydrae are perhaps the ultimate scavengers. Solitary crea 
tures, the gulguthydra incessantly roams its swamp or underground 
domain for food to drive its massive bulk. A ferocious opponent, a 
gulguthydra seldom needs to retreat. Its slow movement rate does 
not contribute to speedy withdrawals in any case. 

Their method of reproduction, if any, is unknown. 













Hakeashar 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Magic (see below) 

INTELLIGENCE: 

High (13-14) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Chaotic Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

10 

MOVEMENT: 

3 

HIT DICE: 

9 

THACO: 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

0 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Nil 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Absorbs magic 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

See below 

SIZE: 

L (12-foot diameter sphere) 

MORALE: 

Elite (16) 

XP VALUE: 

2,000 


A hakeashar appears as a red, misty sphere. Relatives of the nishruu, 
these weird, thankfully rare creatures are believed to be from 
another plane beyond the Realms. Within the red mists comprising 
the body of the hakeashar are hundreds of grasping hands, probing 
eyes, and gaping, hungry mouths. 

Combat: Hakeashar have no attacks. Fire and physical attacks affect 
them normally; hits are automatic if the attacker is enveloped by a 
hakeashar. Cold attacks do half damage, but magical fire and cold 
cannot form within a hakeashar and do no damage. If magical fire or 
cold contact the outside of a hakeashar's body area, they deal one 
round of damage and are then absorbed harmlessly by the monster. 
(No hit points are gamed for absorbed cold- and fire-based spells.) 

Hakeashar move fearlessly and relentlessly toward sources of 
magic, taking full damage from physical attacks. The unique struc 
ture of the hakeashar and its diet of magic have the following effects 
in combat: 

• Mind-control spells and illusions have no effect on them. 

• Damaging spells cast at a hakeashar are absorbed by it, having no 
effect except to give the creature hit points equal to the damage 
normally done by the spells (the exceptions are cold- and fire- 
based spells, as mentioned above). 

• A nondamaging spell gives a hakeashar extra hit points equal to 
its spell level. 

• Chargeable magical items are drained of 1-4 charges on contact 
with a hakeashar; if contact continues, ld4 more charges are 
drained at the end of every second round. 

• Nonchargeable magical items have their powers negated while in 
contact with this monster, and are negated for 1-4 rounds after 
contact as well. 

• Potions or scrolls used while in contact with a hakeashar do not 
take effect until 1-4 rounds after contact is broken. 

• Artifacts become nonoperational while in contact with a 
hakeashar, and remain inactive for 1 round after contact ceases. 

• Spellcasters of all classes lose one memorized spell, determined 
randomly, at first contact with the hakeashar. Thereafter, they 
lose one random spell for each round they remain within the 
body area of the monster (whether partially or fully). Each time 
a spell is lost in this manner, the spellcaster must make a suc 



cessful saving throw vs. breath weapon or be temporarily feeble 
minded; see the 5th-level wizard spell of the same name for 
effects and duration. 

When a hakeashar is slain, its body dissipates, losing luminosity 
and hue, seeming to sink into the ground and drift away. Any magi 
cal items within its body area when it is slain, or any magical 
weapon slaying it, even if no longer in contact with the body, 
receives a magical bonus of ld6 additional charges, or a second use 
in the case of one-shot items like scrolls or magical arrows. Potions, 
memorized spells, artifacts, and items that do not have charges are 
not augmented. 

If a rod of absorption or a ring of spell turning is within the body area 
of a hakeashar, there is a 5% chance of instantly destroying the crea 
ture upon contact (regardless of the wishes of the owner). The 
magic-absorbing and -warping capabilities of the items interact with 
the magical substance of the hakeashar and fully absorb the creature, 
changing the color of the items to a dusky red, but otherwise has no 
effects on them. If this doesn't occur upon contact, the items are 
affected as normal by the hakeashar. 

Habitat/Society: Hakeashar are not native to the Prime Material 
Plane, and are suspected natives of one of the Outer Planes. Within 
the Realms, they appear to be solitary creatures. 

A hakeashar has the ability to give 20% of the number of spells or 
charges absorbed within a turn to a person, but this is done very 
unwillingly; this is usually an action done on its original plane in 
exchange for transport to the Prime Material Plane (or vice-versa). 

Ecology: Hakeashar feed on magic, and their bodies correspondingly 
pulse and glow as they drift about. The hakeashar can seep through 
openings as small as finger-width cracks, and they always move 
toward the greatest concentration of magic within 60'. If a 
hakeashar encounters a wild magic zone, it tends to stay within its 
environs due to the background magic (unless powerful magic 
sources draw it out of the area). 







Leucrotta, Greater 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 
TREASURE TYPE: 
ALIGNMENT: 

NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


Greater leucrotta, also commonly called "changesteeds," are ugly in 
looks and temperament in their base forms; like the common leu 
crotta, the changesteed is 7 feet tall at the shoulder and is 9 feet in 
length, with the body of a stag, a badger's head, a lion's tail, and the 
cloven hoofs of a goat. Whereas the leucrotta is tan and black in col 
oration, the greater leucrotta is covered in gray fur that darkens to 
black along its shoulders and head; its teeth are razor-sharp and are a 
revolting shade of greenish-gray, while its eyes are milky-white and 
empty of any emotion or heart. 

Combat: Changesteeds, in their base forms, attack with their fero 
cious bite for 3-18 points of edged damage; once it bites down, it 
can either let go and bite other foes, or it can maintain its bite, con 
tinuing its 3d6 points of damage until it relinquishes its hold or is 
killed. (Pulling free of a greater leucrotta's bite only requires a 
Strength check at a -2 penalty, but doing so still inflicts damage 
equal to its normal bite.) If the greater leucrotta successfully bites 
someone with a shield, the target must roll a saving throw vs. crush 
ing blow for the shield or the shield is useless, fully bitten through. 
Once the shield is gone, the same checks are made for any armor on 
subsequent successful bites. 

This monster can, like a regular leucrotta, imitate a range of 
noises and voices (like human adults, children, or animals in pain) 
to lure prey into approaching within attacking distance. With this 
ability, greater leucrotta can speak Common, their own language, 
and at least one other language if it is exposed to it commonly. 

The ability that gives the changesteed its name allows it to alter 
its shape into any quadrupedal creature of Medium and Large sizes 
that it has seen for more than one turn. Most greater leucrotta only 
shapechange into horses or stags, but some (like those in Water- 
deep) can change their forms into watchdogs, griffons, hippogriffs, 
and even owlbears. During these shapechanges (which take one 
round each), the changesteed's base form is visible for about 15 sec 
onds between one form and the next. 

While in altered forms, the greater leucrotta appears like the ani 
mal it imitates in all ways save one: its teeth remain the same (as 
does its bite attack THACO and damage). In all other respects, the 
changesteed's strength, speed, AC, and movement style changes to 
reflect the form it wears; this allows it swifter escapes than normal, 
either with a horse's running speed or a griffon's flight. . . . 



Most animals do not react to the presence of greater leucrottas, 
but cats somehow sense that something is amiss, and actively avoid 
them in any form. Spells that check intelligence or alignments (like 
true seeing) and psionics can detect changesteeds in any forms; how 
ever, few check to see that animals are what they seem (suspecting 
trouble only from people). 

Habitat/Society: With the added abilities to camouflage itself 
among normal creatures, greater leucrotta can be found in nearly 
any temperate areas rather than just secluded rains. It also works 
with creatures rather than just preying on them; the most effective 
alliance seen is in Waterdeep, with the Unseen greater doppel- 
gangers and greater leucrottas wandering in the midst of the City of 
Splendors disguised as paladins on war horses. 

The eating habits and lairs of changesteeds are far better than 
normal leucrotta; while they still prefer meat freshly killed, changes 
teeds take care to keep the charnel stench of carrion from their 
breath and their lair (as it would nullify any disguise). 

Ecology: With their added intelligence and shapechanging abilities, 
greater leucrotta are not considered or treated as outcasts like the 
normal leucrotta. If changesteeds are flattered and carefully swayed 
with sound motivations, they can become good allies for intelligent 
thieves or other less-than-noble types. Greater leucrotta only allow 
folk to ride them as steeds when they feel they are equal or greater 
partners in any bargains; their allies play this up often, since the 
monsters seek only food (leaving the treasures to them). 

Like the leucrotta, changesteed hides are useful in creating boots of 
springing and striding; in addition, their shapechanging abilities grant 
the hide special properties that can, with proper preparation, dupli 
cate those of a cloak of elvenkind. Lastly, greater leucrotta hooves are 
especially sought after as heels for boots of varied tracks, allowing wear 
ers to create prints of dogs, goats, horses, stags, and wolves. 


Any 

Very rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Omnivore 
Very (11-12) 

D, Q (x3) 

Neutral evil 

1-3 

4 

18, or as current form 
8 

13 

1; see below 
3-18; see below 
See below 
See below 
10 % 

L (see below) 
Champion (15) 

2,000 









Nvth 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any 

FREQUENCY: 

Rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

High (13-14) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Nil (normally); Any (as guardian) 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

1 

MOVEMENT: 

FI 18 (A) 

HIT DICE: 

7 

THACO: 

13 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

See below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

44% 

SIZE: 

S (2'-4' diameter) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17) 

XP VALUE: 

4,000 


Often mistaken for the eerie will o' wisp, the nyth is a rare predator 
of the northern forests of the Realms. It appears as a glowing sphere 
of light, which it can alter in hue and intensity just as its more 
famous relative does. Nyth speak and usually know Common; they 
also communicate in the "flickering light" language of will o' wisps. 

Combat: Nyth fly silently about by means of natural levitation, 
hunting birds, rodents, large insects, and other small creatures they 
can slay. On sunny days, they often drift with the sun behind them, 
unseen against the glare until they can pounce. 

Nyth bite prey that they can hit, but their major weapon is a nat 
urally-generated magic missile, which is identical to that created by 
the lst-level wizard spell. A nyth can fire this missile, which causes 
ld4+l points of damage, every other round. 

Against powerful opponents, nyth dodge to avoid attacks, using 
their intelligence to discern spellcasters and magical items, and con 
centrate on foiling such attacks. Nyth will also try conversation to 
lead hostile beings astray into nearby pitfalls, swamps, traps (if serv 
ing as a guardian), and the like. Like will o' wisps, nyth are able to 
blank out their radiance entirely (for 2-8 rounds at a time) in order 
to steal away from an encounter or to approach their prey; during 
this time, the nyth can only be seen by those who can see invisible 
creatures. A nyth that fires a magic missile pulses brightly, appearing 
and remaining visible for the entire round. 

Nyth can be hit by any sort of weapon. Fire, electricity, and other 
raw energy discharges of any sort aid rather than harm a nyth. The 
points of damage normally dealt by such attacks are added to the 
nyth's hit point total, permanent until lost by further attacks. Thus, 
nyth cannot be harmed by fireballs, lightning bolts, and similar mag 
ics. It cannot, however, absorb magic missiles; instead, it reflects them 
back upon the caster or item wielder. Nyth do not heal with rest and 
often seek out wayfarers' fires and forest blazes to replenish their 
energy and essence in the blazes. 

In addition to their natural magic resistance, the uniquely chaotic, 
multilayer minds of nyth are immune to all enchantment/charm 
spells and like magical effects. 

Habitat/Society: Nyth are almost always found as solitary, wander 
ing hunters, without a specific territory or a lair. They do have 
favorite hunting spots, and often drift in desolate areas or ruins 



where their radiance will not attract the attention of foes. 

Nyth have never been observed to fight will o' wisps or each 
other. In the wild, they keep to themselves, reproducing by splitting 
into two nyth when reaching a certain size (absorbed up to or more 
than 60 hit points); this spectacular process creates explosive bursts 
of light and discharges of magic missiles in random directions (living 
creatures within 30' subject to 1-3 missiles each) creates two nyth of 
7 Hit Dice. Some barbarians of the North call nyth "wildfire" and 
believe them to be evil spirits. Most citizens of the Realms merely 
avoid them and are, in turn, avoided by nyth. 

The powers of the nyth make them ideal guardians, and the swift 
flight, invisibility, and wary avoidance of wild nyth make these 
guardians the only nyth that most folk ever see. Nyth can get lonely, 
and acceptance by other creatures, and the designation of a particu 
lar area (room, cave, crypt, crossroads, etc.) as its home delights a 
nyth. If given clear instructions and regular food (fire and energy, 
not just live prey), a nyth will take pride in defending its home 
against specified intruders; guardian nyth take on all attackers with 
guile and wit, retreating only if faced with certain destruction. 

Nyth can communicate telepathically with most creatures and 
may speak any language with which they have frequent contact. 

Ecology: Wild nyth prey on small creatures of the woodlands and 
coasts, birds in particular, and go their solitary ways without altering 
the lands in which they dwell. No specific magical use has yet been 
found for their essence, but wizards are confident that it will prove 
useful in devising fire- and magic missile - related spells and items. 

During the Rat Hills Conflagration of 1367, will o' wisps and 
nyth were spotted by patrols of the Waterdeep guard. While the 
will o' wisps were driven out (killing two guardsmen during their 
exit and feeding on the general panic), the nyth remained in the 
inferno, explosively splitting and reproducing at astonishing rates. 
(There are now believed to be at least four nyth in the Rat Hills 
and many more in Ardeep Forest, but these numbers have not 
been confirmed.) 










Palimpsest 


(r) (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Temperate/Urban 

(City/ Library) 

FREQUENCY: 

Very Rare 


ORGANIZATION: 

None 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 


DIET: 

Life Energy 


INTELLIGENCE: 

Semi- 


TREASURE: 

None 


ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 


NO. APPEARING: 

1 


ARMOR CLASS: 

10 


MOVEMENT: 

3 


HIT DICE: 

1 to 10 


THACO: 

Varies 


NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 


DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-3 


SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Swallow 


SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to fire and edged weapo 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

10% 


SIZE: 

S 


MORALE: 

Unsteady (5) 


XP VALUE: 

1 HD: 270 

6 HD: 2,000 


2 HD: 420 

7 HD: 3,000 


3 HD: 650 

8 HD: 4,000 


4 HD: 975 

9 HD: 5,000 


5 HD: 1,400 10 HD: 6,000 


A palimpsest is a sheet of magical, carnivorous parchment or paper 
that has become semisentient and animated by the magical runes it 
contained for long ages. It is mobile, able to rustle its way from shelf 
to shelf and desk to desk (as if blown about by a stray breeze), but is 
otherwise indistinguishable from normal paper or parchment. 

Combat: Palimpsests reveal their true natures only when they feed. 
Generally, they hide in books, scroll cases, or loosely-wrapped fold 
ers of loose parchment. Palimpsests sense sound and movement, and 
attack only when their victim is still (or performing minor move 
ments such as writing or drawing). As a result, they attack by sur 
prise on a roll of 1-8. They attempt to absorb their victim, drawing 
the hapless target into their pages on an attack roll of 4 more than 
what is required to hit the victim. As the victim is absorbed, his fea 
tures become part of the palimpsest, appearing as a sketch or illumi 
nation derived directly from the victim's features. The palimpsest 
can do nothing else while absorbing its victim, and the process takes 
2 full rounds; the creature is vulnerable during this period, so it 
prefers to attack solitary creatures. 

If a successful attack roll fails to draw the victim in, the palimpsest 
simply inflicts deep paper cuts that bleed for several hours, inflicting 
1-3 hp damage. The blood that spatters the page is soon absorbed, 
leaving no trace to warn future victims. 

After a victim is completely absorbed within the palimpsest, life 
energies are slowly eaten, a process that takes 1 day per level or Hit 
Die of the victim. Thereafter, the victim can only be restored by a 
wish spell; all other spells and methods, including resurrection, are 
useless. A palimpsest can absorb one victim per Hit Die at a time; 
thus, a 3 Hit Die palimpsest can devour the energies of three trapped 
victims at once, though it can absorb only 1 victim every 2 rounds. 

Victims absorbed into a palimpsest magically become part of its 
decorations while the creature absorbs the victim's life force. For 
example, the parchment may include a variety of fantastic illumina 
tions, with mice screeching to get out, or a scribe screaming in terror 
among the fanciful scrollwork. While victims are in this state, it is 
very difficult to restore them to normal form. Raise dead has no 



effect, and limited wish is likewise useless. The only known way to 
free a palimpsest victim (other than a full and carefully worded wish) 
is this specific series of spells: A remove curse spell animates an illus 
trated victim, an abjure spell allows him or her to be lifted off the 
page, and a resurrection spell restores his or her true form (or else the 
victim remains only a colorful, lifeless paper doll). 

Palimpsests are immune to edged weapons and normal and mag 
ical fire; electricity has a chance of releasing partially absorbed vic 
tims. Shocking grasp has a 20% chance to release a creature partially 
absorbed by the palimpsest, though the caster risks being con 
sumed himself unless the spell is cast through a spectral hand. A 
lightning bolt spell has a 50% chance to release a partially absorbed 
victim, and chain lightning has a 90% chance to release its most 
recent victim (and a 10% chance each of releasing one other vic 
tim who the palimpsest absorbed and still remains among its illu 
minations). If the palimpsest is killed, its victims are irretrievable 
without a wish spell. 

Habitat/Society: Palimpsests have no society to speak of, since they 
live alone. They do not reproduce sexually, though there are reports 
that large magical libraries or good food supplies lead them to split 
frequently, as amoebas do. 

Ecology: Palimpsests are, in fact, creatures created in the Ethereal 
plane. Instead of drawing power or matter from other planes to a 
mage, palimpsests are capable of doing just the opposite, drawing 
mages into other planes. 

A few rumors claim that palimpsests are creations of the arcane, 
who use them to gather magical energies. Others claim that they are 
minions of a magical Power, sent as retribution against those that 
offend. There are also persistent rumors of an entire false library of 
these creatures exists somewhere in Undermountain, a colossal joke 
of Halaster's. Adventurers in Skullport claim that the volumes are 
enticingly labeled, such as Manual of Bodily Health , Libram of Gainful 
Conjuration, and Elminster's Black Book. 











Peltast 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Peltast 

Greater Peltast 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any land 

Any land 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Any 

DIET: 

Special 

Special 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Average (8-10) 

Exceptional (15-16) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Nil 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

7 

3 

MOVEMENT: 

4 

4 

HIT DICE: 

1+6 

2+6 

THACO: 

19 

19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

See below 

See below 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

See below 

See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to poison 

Immune to 


and crushing 

poison and 


attacks 

crushing attacks 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

7% 

33% 

SIZE: 

T (under 2' long 
unless stretched 
very thin) 

T (amorphous) 

MORALE: 

Steady (12) 

Elite (14) 

XP VALUE: 

65 

975 



A peltast is an amorphous creature about the size of three human 
fists in volume. Its skin has a textured, mottled brown hue resem 
bling worn but sturdy leather. A peltast can change its shape to 
exactly match a leather item in two rounds. If a peltast sees a leather 
item dropped, it swiftly moves and changes form so as to be mistaken 
for the missing item. A peltast feels and hefts like leather, and does 
not breathe, give off heat, or make any sound. It has no tanning 
odor, nor does it radiate magic. 

Peltasts live in symbiosis with humans and all goblinkind. Elves 
and dwarves aren't right for its needs, and are used only as carriers to 
more suitable hosts. 

Combat: In contact with suitable flesh, a peltast exudes a liquid 
anaesthetic and tissue softener. There is only a 1% chance that a 
host creature will notice its attack. The peltast dissolves the host's 
skin in a small, hidden area. Through this, it absorbs 1 hit point/day 
of blood-borne nutrients. A healthy host may never notice the slight 
weakness this causes. If the peltast is removed, there is no telltale 
peeling, pulling, or blood. 

The peltast is resilient and is immune to poison and crushing 
attacks, but all edged weapons do full damage. Peltasts also gain +1 
on saving throws vs. fire. A peltast's skin can sense vibrations, smell 
acutely, and its many tiny, concealable eyes have 60' infravision. 

Habitat/Society: Both the peltast and the greater peltast (see 
below) infest Waterdeep and Undermountain. The peltast are often 
encountered in Dock and South Ward, especially around direct con 
nections with the dungeon below and in the dim alleys of Skullport; 
the most common forms these are found in are discarded coin bags, 
belts, hats, or gloves. The greater peltast is found deep in Under 
mountain, and rarely, if ever, in the city. 

Ecology: A peltast will leave a diseased host, but helps keep its host 
alive while attached. It neutralizes poisons introduced into the host. 


Its slight magic resistance is also extended to the host. Should the 
host be reduced to two hit points or less, the peltast will inject 3-6 
points of energy back into the host; it can do this only once a day. 

A peltast exudes wastes whenever immersed in water, staining 
and poisoning it; drinkers must save vs. poison at a +2 bonus or 
become nauseated for 2-8 rounds, unable to attack or defend. 

A peltast will never fight another peltast, nor willingly join a host 
already carrying one. Peltasts can sense each other up to 40' away. 

Greater Peltasts: These rarer peltasts resemble translucent rock 
crystals instead of leather. Hard to the touch and about the size of a 
human fist, they can alter the internal hue and shape of their bodies. 
No organs or structures are visible in a greater peltast, and over the 
centuries they have learned to shape themselves into exact sem 
blances of faceted gems, valued by many creatures. They often hide 
among real gemstones. 

Greater peltasts can be seen feeding: the blood they ingest is 
visible inside their bodies. They also grow visibly upon draining 
more than 3 hp of nutrients (a greater peltast can typically dram 
up to 12 hit points, half of which are added to its hit point total 
for a day). Because of this, greater peltasts prefer to feed on sleep 
ing, dead, or disabled creatures, using their magical powers to 
fetch more meals. 

Once a round, a greater peltast can silently use one of its abilities: 
call monsters (like a monster summoning VI spell, but used to call hos 
tile creatures against its carrier until a good meal opportunity devel 
ops); a powerful suggestion (-1 on subject saving throws) to influence 
called creatures and other beings around them into creating the 
maximum possible bloodshed without depriving the greater peltast 
of all potential host-creatures; and slow on any being touching or 
carrying the greater peltast. 

These "false gems" have exceptional intelligence and are more 
powerful than the common variety. They otherwise dram a host, and 
give benefits, exactly as do their lesser cousins. 








Raggamoffyn 


(r) (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


Common 

Tatterdemanimal Raggamoffyn Gutterspite 


Shrapnyl 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 


-Any Temperate/Urban- 

Uncommon Uncommon Rare Very Rare 

-Hive/colony- 

Night Night Day Any 

-Carnivore- 


INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

NO. APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 


Low 

None 

Neutral 

1-6 

10 

18, FI 12 
1 

20 

1 

1-2 

Control host 

Immune to blunt 
weapons and 
mind-affecting spells 


Average 

-Q (x 3) 

Chaotic Neutral 

1-4 

5 

12, FI 8 
3 

17 

1 

1-6 

Suffocation, 
control host 
Immune to mind- 
affecting spells 


Very 


Neutral 

1- 3 
0 

6, FI 6 
5 

15 

1 

2- 16 

Blinding, control host 

Immune to mind 
affecting spells 


High 


Chaotic Evil 
1-2 
-5 

6, FI 4 
7 

13 

1 or 5 

2-24 or 1-6 (x5) 
Control host, explode 

Immune to mind- 
affecting spells 


MAGIC RESISTANCE: 


-None 


SIZE: 

MORALE: 
XP VALUE: 


S M M L 

Unsteady (6) Steady (11) Elite (14) 

120 270 1,400 


Champion (16) 
3,000 


These mysterious creatures are sentient scraps of cloth, leather, and 
metal of unknown origin. Some say that they are formed from the 
remnants of magical cloaks, boots, and weapons, when these are 
worn out and discarded. Others claim that a rag mage living in 
Skullport is creating these animated creatures using a cursed Manual 
of Golems. 

Combat: Raggamoffyns all prefer to fight by possessing a host. 
They do this by physically wrapping up the victim, wrapping 
themselves around their target like cloth around a mummy. To 
enfold a victim, the raggamoffyn must make a successful attack 
roll against the target's Armor Class counting only Dexterity and 
magical bonuses, no armor or shield bonuses. If it succeeds, a 
raggamoffyn's cloud of scraps and tatters flows around the target 
and covers the victim in a skin-tight sheath from head to toe, 
including covering the eyes and ears. Most raggamoffyns also cre 
ate a sort of hood or cowl over their host's head, to make it 
appear as if the host is simply bundled up. 

Once they've covered the host, raggamoffyns can force the 
host body to do their collective bidding. Even when captured, 
intelligent creatures can throw off the effects by force of will; 
when enwrapped by a raggamoffyn, characters need a successful 
saving throw vs. spell to resist the raggamoffyn's control. Success 
ful saves usually cause most (but not all; see below) raggamoffyn 
to fly to another host. If failed, the character is under their con 
trol, but can make a saving throw at the start of each turn to 
break free. (Each Intelligence point above 15 subtracts one round 
from the time, allowing smarter characters to save more quickly.) 
The saving throws are made as normal against tatterdemanimals 
and common raggamoffyns, but are at -2 against gutterspites and 
-4 against a shrapnyl's control. 

When removed from or rejected by their host, raggamoffyns can 
fly (poorly), like a swarm of scraps caught in a breeze. They can slip 
through small openings, such as beneath a door or through a 
portcullis, just by splitting into their component parts. 
























Raggamoffyn 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


Habitat/Society: Raggamoffyns speak no known language, though 
they understand spoken Common well enough. 

Raggamoffyns are currently found in Undermountain, but are 
rumored to be popping up in Dock Ward as well, where they hide 
as cloaks and capes and piles of rags (the shrapnyl have only been 
seen in Undermountain's third level and below). They seem dri 
ven to create more of their own kind, but they must use others to 
do so, forcing their hosts to destroy enchanted clothing and per 
form a quick, silent rite that somehow creates another rag- 
amoffyn. Whether or not the raggamoffyns serve the mage who 
created them is an open question; some say that their drive to cre 
ate more of their kind is only a preparation for an silent conquest 
of the city of Waterdeep. 

Ecology: In bright light, raggamoffyns are sometimes confused with 
mummies or adherers and slain (along with the unfortunate host), 
but in most cases they can pass as human in poor light. Some say 
that the raggamoffyns are the nonliving variants of a race of steel 
shadows that they serve, metal-animating creatures that dwell deep 
in Undermountain. Others suggest that the Rag Mage is an illusion 
ist who dabbles in transmutation magics, creating the illusion of life 
in unliving cloth. 

Raggamoffyns almost never harm their hosts directly. However, 
they do force their hosts to kill, to steal, or cause mischief (like the 
destruction of valuable magical items). Unfortunately, the hosts are 
always left to face the consequences (having been freed by the ragg- 
amoffyn) when things go wrong. Because their actions are planned 
and directed to a definite goal, some sages believe that raggamoffyns 
serve the ends of their creators. 

Oddly, raggamoffyn (other than the gutterspite) cannot capture 
and control gnomes or duergar; their very natures could make them 
immune, or it could be a simple whim of the creator, but these crea 
tures never attack these small races. 

T atterdemanimals 

This lesser form of raggamoffyn is the least dangerous, made of small, 
dirty, and tattered scraps of cloth and able to wrap itself around crea 
tures of size T or S. A tatterdemanimal cannot control a host with 
more than 3 Hit Dice or a 4 Intelligence; its usual victims are rats, 
dogs, cats, birds, and pigs. 

Tatterdemanimals often gather in small groups and control a 
group of similar animals, such as a pack of dogs or a flock of pigeons. 
Oddly, they can fly, although they cannot control the host accu 
rately enough to imitate a bird's flapping wings. 

Tatterdemanimals suffer double damage from fire, but are immune 
to damage from blunt weapons. 

Gutterspite 

The gutterspite is a rare form of raggamoffyn, barely large enough to 
control creatures of up to dwarven size (size S), but not quite large 
enough to engulf elves or humans. The host size is less important to 
gutterspites, as they almost always choose to stay with the host they 
bond with at birth. The gutterspites are the only form of ragg 
amoffyn to cooperate with their hosts, rather than simply dominat 
ing them (though they can if the host doesn't cooperate with them). 
Some even claim that the Rag Mage himself is simply the powerful 
leader of the gutterspite race. 

Compared to other raggamoffyns and their whirling scraps of 
wind and fury, the gutterspites are awkward, shambling masses, made 
of ropes, string, leather straps, and strips of unraveling cloth holding 
together a small mass of gems, glass, and glitter. They can control 
creatures of up to 10 Intelligence and as much as 4 levels or Hit 
Dice. A gutterspite's preferred hosts are small, often halflings, 
dwarves, and gnomes. Gutterspites are the only raggamoffyns that 
can control gnomes and duergar. 


Once a day, a gutterspite can create a sparkling burst of light that 
shines from its glitter and glass, blinding all opponents in a 20-foot 
radius who fail a saving throw against paralyzation. This blindness 
lasts for 1-4 rounds, giving the gutterspite and its host enough time 
to flee or attack. Blinded opponents gain no Dexterity bonus to their 
Armor Class, and the gutterspite gains an additional +2 bonus to 
attack rolls against blinded foes. Gutterspites are unaffected by color 
spray, darkness, light, rainbow, and continual light spells. 

The Common Raggamoffyn 

Usually just called raggamoffyns, these bits of leather cloaks, gloves, 
and armor are the most common (and most dangerous) raggamoffyn 
in Waterdeep proper. They thrive in rubbish heaps, alleys, and the 
City of the Dead, where they often include bits of burial shrouds. 
Common raggamoffyns can control size S or M creatures of up to 15 
Intelligence and as much as 6 levels or Hit Dice. 

Common raggamoffyns gather in roving packs on some nights, 
often controlling the actions of thieves, watchmen, bookkeepers, 
or other night owls in the city. In rare cases, they asphyxiate hosts 
who escape their control and might give away their presence to 
others -the only active attack raggamoffyns use against their own 
hosts. These strangling attacks are automatic once the ragg 
amoffyn scores a single successful attack against the victim's head 
(Armor Class 10 without a full face helmet, AC2 with a great 
helm. Dexterity bonuses and magical rings and bracers apply). 
After the raggamoffyn plugs up the nose and mouth of the victim 
and begins to squeeze the throat, the victim must make a Constitu 
tion check each round until either the raggamoffyn or the victim is 
slain. (Spell attacks affect both, but can serve to remove the rags 
from the host.) The first check is normal, but thereafter each addi 
tional check adds another -2 penalty. If the check fails, the victim 
dies of suffocation. 

Shrapnyl 

These powerful creatures are made of dozens or even hundreds of 
shards of metal of all varieties and colors, including bits of iron, 
brass, tin, and copper. The shrapnyl consist of good-sized bits of 
metal: Entire horseshoes, swords, shields, lanterns, pans, knives, and 
tableware. They can control hosts up to size L with an 18 Intelli 
gence and up to 9 HD or levels. Their preferred victims are ogres, 
mages, or (best of all) ogre mages. When they seek to disguise them 
selves, shrapnyl raggamoffyns arrange their metal shards to resemble 
splint mail armor. 

One of the benefits of this parasite is that the shrapnyl actually 
acts as armor, taking damage that might normally affect its host 
(spell effects affect both, except as listed below). If they are exposed 
to acids, those particular pieces of metal flip over and expose the 
host to the acid damage as well, dividing the damage of the acid 
between them (host and shrapnyl each take half damage). 

Once per day, a shrapnyl can explode into a cloud of steel, inflict 
ing 4dl0 points of damage on any creature within 10 feet, half on 
those that make a successful saving throw versus breath weapon. 
The shrapnyl's host is unaffected by the explosion, but thereafter the 
shrapnyl can no longer control its host. The monster must rest and 
retreat before finding a new host, so it uses the exploding cloud of 
steel only in extreme situations. 

Older shrapnyl sometimes include large chunks of gold, silver, or 
platinum among their scraps, and use them to lure potential hosts 
near. They may lie still for hours at a time, then suddenly rise up out 
of a chest or a pile of coins and surround a host. When in its loose 
metal form, without a host, a shrapnyl can attack five times a round. 

Shrapnyl are vulnerable to crystalbrittle, shatter, and heat metal 
spells. Shatter causes 3d6 points of damage to a shrapnyl, crystalbrittle 
affects it without the benefit of a saving throw, and heat metal causes 
full normal damage to a shrapnyl. 





Sewerm 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Temperate/Subterranean or swamp 

FREQUENCY: 

Rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Animal (1) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1-6 

ARMOR CLASS: 

5 

MOVEMENT: 

12, Sw 9 

HIT DICE: 

2-4 

THACO: 

19 (2 HD); 17 (3HD or 4HD) 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Drain blood 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Anaesthetic slime 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

S (2HD, 2'-3'); M (3HD, 4'-5'; 4HD, 

MORALE: 

Unsteady (6) 

XP VALUE: 

120 (2HD); 175 (3HD); 270 (4HD) 


The sewerm is a relatively large water snake found in the sewers of 
Waterdeep (thus its name) and the fouled, fetid waters of the 
swamps of the northern Sword Coast (the Mere of Dead Men, the 
Stump Bog, etc.). Its tan-and-brown scales over a mottled green 
underbelly grant it great camouflage abilities in the dark sewers, and 
they can swim at remarkable speeds. 

Combat: Sewerms use their coloration as camouflage in the swamps 
and sewers, gaining a surprise bonus of +2 against any opponents. 
The sewerm secretes an anaesthetic oil through its skin that locally 
deadens a character's sense of touch; the snake often wraps around a 
character's boot and leg as it attacks, allowing it to be carried along 
while it feeds. If the sewerm gained surprise, the character will not 
notice the sewerm until a successful Wisdom check is rolled (check 
once per round). The sewerm's anaesthetic is also secreted through 
its fangs, making its bite totally painless; once bitten, the victim is 
drained of 1-4 hit points per round as the sewerm drains the charac 
ter of blood. Characters will often simply get weaker and weaker, 
dropping dead from blood loss, before they even feel the snake 
attached to them. It only takes a Strength check to dislodge a sew 
erm from a character, and (luckily) the wound closes almost imme 
diately; the snake's anaesthetic also acts as a disinfectant, preventing 
anyone from contracting any illness from the brackish water 
through the wound. 

Sewerms only attack warm-blooded creatures and they strike at 
areas of exposed flesh (or through cloth, not leather) close to the 
waterline of where they encounter their prey; their common prey 
has been plumbers in the sewers of Waterdeep, and they strike just 



at the top of the boot. They can, with one round of preparation, 
coil themselves up and spring out of the water, striking out to 
their full length; this attack is becoming more common as people 
moving through the sewers are wearing hip boots, forcing the 
snakes to use this more blatant (but startling -surprise bonus of 
+4) attack. 

Habitat/Society: Sewerms are water snakes that have adapted to liv 
ing in sewers and swamps and feeding off warm blood, similar to a 
leech. They often hunt alone but, on rare occasions, travel in small 
groups of up to six snakes; other than immediately after birth (where 
there are 5-20 V 2 HD sewerms and one 4HD mother), sewerms do not 
collect in large gatherings. 

Ecology: Sewerms, while being a dangerous nuisance to those of the 
Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild in Waterdeep's sewers, are highly 
prized in many ways by those of the Guild of Apothecaries and 
Physicians and others about the city; the Pain-deadening effects of 
the sewerm's venom are helpful to their work and, with proper 
preparations, can be stored for up to six months before the venom 
breaks down and is useless. Sewerms shed their skins once a year; the 
guild will purchase whole skins at 2 silver pieces each. Whole snakes 
are also purchased by the guild and other interested parties, should 
any plumbers (or adventurers) find any down in the sewers; guild 
prices are 5 silver pieces per Hit Die of the sewerm (1 gold piece per 
Hit Die if still alive). Kromnlor Sernar the sage is much quieter 
about her interest, but she buys sewerms at 1 gold piece per Hit Die, 
regardless of condition. 












Shadowrath 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Lesser 

Greater 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any land 

Any land 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Any 

DIET: 

Nil 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

As former self 

As former self 

TREASURE TYPE: 

W 

W 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral evil 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

2-12 

1-10 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

5 (or as former self) 

MOVEMENT: 

9 

12 

HIT DICE: 

4+4 

5+5 

THACO: 

17 

15 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

As former self 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-6 

2-8 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Chilling touch Energy drain 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Hit only by ma 

igical weapons 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

10% 

25% 

SIZE: 

As former self 

As former self 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

1,400 

2,000 


DM's Note 

The shadowrath have a number of connections with the fell artifact, 
the Crown of Horns. For more information on the Crown and its 
powers, see Chapter Seven of the Campaign Guide to the City. 

Lesser Shadowrath 

These undead beings appear as totally black skeletons, with only 
their eyesockets aglow with red, deadly energy. These creatures are 
created by the ray of undeath power of the Crown of Horns. All vic 
tims killed by this ray arise as lesser shadowraths, also known as 
"blackbones"; if killed by the ray, any nonmagical equipment worn 
by the subject is consumed during the transformation (all magical 
equipment is simply abandoned or collected for the Crown bearer). 
The shadowraths are still intelligent, but they are totally under the 
control of the wearer of the Crown of Horns if he or she is within 100 
yards of their position. Note that any magical or psionic powers the 
shadowrath possessed while alive are lost in the conversion to 
undead status. 

Combat: Lesser shadowraths attack by using a chilling touch, which 
causes 1-6 points of damage and requires the victim to save vs. 
death magic or lose one point of Strength. Creatures completely 
drained of Strength points by lesser shadowraths die, and such a 
death is irreversible. Strength points return at the rate of one per 
hour. 

These undead can be turned by clerics as a ghast. Lesser shad 
owraths are immune to the effects of normal and silver weapons. 












the general appearance of the being, including clothing, armor, 
equipment, and so on. However, the abysskin have no eyes, inter 
nal organs, or bones; instead, they are filled with and animated by 
Negative Material plane energy, and this crackling black energy is 
visible in the creatures' eyes, open mouths, or open wounds on the 
body. Greater shadowraths can use all equipment their former 
selves carried (except magical items opposed to their new align 
ment). Shadowrath cannot activate any magical items that need 
command words, as they are mute. As with lesser shadowraths, all 
magical or psionic abilities of the shadowrath's previous existence 
are lost as undead. 

Combat: The touch of a greater shadowrath causes 2-8 (2d4) points 
of damage and requires the victim to make a saving throw vs. death 
magic or lose one level of experience. Beings completely drained of 
levels by a greater shadowraths die a permanent, irreversible death. 
Greater shadowraths can be turned by cleric characters as mummies. 

Habitat/Society: Greater shadowraths are created by the evil arti 
fact, the Crown of Horns. They often accompany the Crown - wearer, 
acting as bodyguards and enforcers of the Crown - wearer's will. 
Greater shadowraths also lead groups of lesser shadowraths when 
assigned a difficult task or mission by their creator. 


Habitat/Society: As stated above, lesser shadowraths are created by 
the Crown of Horns. These undead retain their intelligence, but they 
willingly serve the wearer of the Crown until they are destroyed. As 
intelligent beings, they can understand instructions given them by 
the Crown's wearer and can perform tasks set them. 

Greater Shadowrath 

These powerful undead also are result of the Crown of Horns. 
Those slain by Myriad's Hand (the other major power of the arti 
fact) arise as greater shadowraths or "abysskin." Greater shad 
owraths retain both the intelligence they possessed during life and 


Ecology: As with all undead, shadowraths have no place in any nat 
ural ecological system. They drain life and vitality from surroundings 
and return nothing. If left without direct control, shadowraths 
always seek out and destroy wizards and worshipers of Mystra (as 
revenge for Mystra's destruction of Myrkul during the Gods war). 
Shadowraths often cover themselves in heavy cloaks and hoods to 
approach their victims unawares; this works fine for the greater 
shadowrath (who can pass for their previous selves, as long as their 
eyes and mouths and other negative energy spots are hidden), but 
most nonmagical cloth becomes tattered, rotten, and disintegrates 
after prolonged contact with lesser shadowraths. 
















Watchspider 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any temperate 

FREQUENCY: 

Rare; Uncommon (in Waterdeep) 

ORGANIZATION: 

As trained and deployed 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

Any possible (guardian) 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1-8 

ARMOR CLASS: 

6 

MOVEMENT: 

18 

HIT DICE: 

2+2 

THACO: 

19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-6 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Poison (see below) 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (6' in diameter) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17) 

XP VALUE: 

420 


Watchspiders are a specially-bred subspecies of huge spiders, raised 
and trained in the Realms as guardians. Like any spider, the watch- 
spider has eight legs and eight eyes; specifically, it is a variant species 
of huge hunting spider, with a sleek body, large head and fangs, and 
excessively hairy body and legs. The watchspider does not spin webs, 
but it is a fast, aggressive predator with a poisonous bite. 

Combat: Watchspiders tend to lurk in the dark shadows near the 
entrance to areas they are set to guard; from there, they can 
observe who enters, and attack before being spotted (surprise 
penalties of -6 for opponents) if the intruders are not among those 
allowed into its area. Watchspiders can leap up to 30 feet through 
the air at victims. 

Watchspiders initially bite each intruder once, since they are 
trained to neutralize as many intruders as possible, and continue 
such attacks until all intruders are paralyzed. Watchspider bites 
cause 1-6 points of damage and contain a poisonous venom. Vic 
tims get a saving throw vs. poison with a +1 bonus against the 
watchspider's venom; if the saving throw fails, the venom causes 
paralysis for 2-8 turns after an onset time of 1-2 rounds (the vic 
tim can see and hear, but cannot move or speak until the venom 
wears off). 

Watchspiders are otherwise identical to huge spiders (see the 
Monstrous Manual), and never build their own webs (though they 
can climb walls and webs easily). If starved for long periods, they 
tend to devour paralyzed prey unless they are removed within three 
turns of becoming paralyzed. 

Habitat/Society: In Waterdeep, watchspiders are fairly common 
in guild houses' and rich merchants' cellars and warehouses. They 
are trained to obey a single master, who can order them not to 
attack certain other beings. All watchspiders are schooled in dis 
abling spellcasters and in avoiding weapons set against their leap 
ing attack (spears and large piercing weapons). They have 



acquired intelligence through breeding, over the centuries, and 
can be trained for the specific needs of the buyer. The five watch 
spiders in the vault of the Phull villa are trained to attack in two 
pairs while the fifth rings a bell set on the wall near the cellar 
entrance. Likewise, permanent web spells drape the ceiling of a 
cellar of the Wands villa and a watchspider guards the artifact 
vault; if it counts more than two intruders, it is trained to drink 
from a basin above the webs that contains a unique potion of hero 
ism, which grants the spider 3 extra Hit Dice (for hp and THACO) 
for ldlO turns, and then attack. 

Ecology: This special breed of spiders was once indigenous only to 
Tharsult, where the dusky-skinned natives first trained this species 
as guards; the Mhairuun merchant family brought the spiders and 
their breeding and training processes north to Waterdeep, swiftly 
establishing a lucrative business with this rare commodity. After 
sixty years of breeding in the North, watchspiders can be found in 
Sword Coast cities from Neverwinter to Lantan, all purchased and 
shipped from Waterdeep; while originally a creature of more temper 
ate climes, watchspiders have adapted to the Sword Coast with the 
growth of heavier hair (almost fur), but they still cannot survive the 
cold any further north than Neverwinter. 

Recently, the last Mhairuun heir of Waterdeep, the lady Lythis 
Mhairuun, married Lord Urtos Phylund II, uniting their family for 
tunes. This move also opened up the possibilities for management 
and expansion of the watchspider business, since the Phylunds had 
long been trappers, breeders, and trainers of many different types of 
monsters. Lord and Lady Phylund had been experimenting with a 
number of variant breeds of huge spiders, rumors suggesting new 
forms of watchspiders will soon hit the market (such as those that 
spin webs coated with paralytic venom, or others that have the 
deadly edged limbs of the sword spider with the trained abilities of 
watchspiders). 





Wereshark 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1994 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any ocean 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low to Exceptional (5-16) 

TREASURE TYPE: 

See below 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

12, Sw 18 

HIT DICE: 

10+3 

THACO: 

9 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

5-20 (5d4 bite) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

silver or +1 (or better) weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

L (20-foot-long shark form); 

M (6-foot-tall human form) 

MORALE: 

Steady (11) 

XP VALUE: 

4,000 


The wereshark is an avaricious hybrid of man and shark that has 
recently sprung up in the waters along the Sword Coast. These huge 
predators destroy large caches of fish (and fishermen) and have been 
known to attack nearly any form of aquatic life, including the intel 
ligent races such as tritons, sea elves, and mermen. 

The wereshark is a huge, muscular brute when in human form, 
and it takes the form of a great white shark when transformed. Cruel 
and arrogant in its human form, a wereshark is even more vicious in 
its shark form. 

Combat: In human form, weresharks tend to use their inordinate 
strength (18 to 18/00) to savagely attack people hand-to-hand; with 
an attack roll of 20, weresharks can rip an arm off grappled oppo 
nents (those held for one round). If outnumbered by more than 
three to one or attacked with weapons, weresharks create distrac 
tions and quickly abandon the encounter, fleeing toward water and 
transforming to shark form for an easy getaway. 

When entering combat in the water, a wereshark swims beneath 
its opponent to have a clear attack on its victim's legs. The were 
shark knows its enemies will find this attack nearly impossible to 
predict or defend against (surprise rolls at -6). Wereshark bites cause 
5-20 points of damage and result in a number of severe gashes. 
Weresharks do not lock their jaws on their prey, but either gnaw and 
bite at their leisure or swallow their prey whole. 

If the attack is successful and exceeds the minimum roll to hit by 5 
or more, the wereshark engulfs its victim in its jaws and swallows him 
or her whole; for example, a wereshark needs to roll a THACO of 5 to 
attack a selkie (AC5) and can swallow it whole with a THACO of 10 
or more. In its stomach, an unfortunate victims suffers 15 points of 
damage per round; if armed with an edged weapon, the victim can 
attempt to cut himself or herself free (attacks at cumulative -1 penal 
ties per round until free or dead) but the wereshark must lose more 
than 50% of its hit points before the victim is free. 

A wereshark is affected only by silver or enchanted weapons. All 
others are either deflected off the skin or slice harmlessly through the 
outer skin, causing a flesh wound that heals immediately. Attacks 
from within (by swallowed victims) can be made with any edged 
weapons, but the difficulty of movement within the wereshark's stom 
ach still makes THACO rolls necessary against an AC of 5. 



Habitat/Society: Human weresharks are primarily solitary creatures 
in either form. Occasionally, they might cooperate on a limited basis 
with each other, with sahuagin, or with priests of Umberlee or Talos, 
but these instances are quite rare. Weresharks are, first and foremost, 
individualists out for their own gain. 

The wereshark typically has an entourage of several common 
sharks, which attack in concert with the wereshark. In heavily 
shark-infested waters, the scent of blood often brings swarms of 
sharks and whips them into a feeding frenzy. Weresharks, out of cru 
elty, often make passing attacks at victims simply to entice other 
sharks into attacking them while it waits to collect any treasures, 
such as magical weapons and items. Weresharks can communicate 
with and command (35% chance) any ordinary sharks. 

Ecology: Virtually unheard of in the Realms until the past 15 years, 
weresharks have sparked a number of theories on their unknown ori 
gins, from vengeful humans being granted powers by Umberlee or 
Talos during the Godswar to humans that survived shark attacks and 
somehow gained the ability to become a shark, none of which have 
been proven yet. 

Weresharks in human form tend to be maimed in some way 
(missing limb, eye, severe scars, or other disfigurement), though 
these marks are not evident when they are in shark form. Were 
sharks are fiercely territorial, staking claims on sunken ships or 
undersea caves and defending them to the death. They often 
plunder these areas so they can use the treasures found for their 
own gain above the waves. 

In human form, weresharks can breathe underwater for one hour. 
If they do not get air after this time, they suffer 1-10 points of dam 
age per round until they drown, breathe real air, or transform into 
their shark forms. 

There are also persistent rumors among the sea-dwellers in the 
Realms of sahuagin weresharks that are treated as holy warriors and 
are larger than any known human weresharks (12 Hit Dice). 































to 


Q ^ C Tj 


U\ 





aaMOjL 




^¦'JliU'Lli. 


cSffiSD 





- jifS. 
















































ro 

o 


j 







ui 




Us 



I, H 31VAMS3M JHi.' 
H^Di SHAaVJg ' 


cl¥31 lino 3H1 


I393TIOD s.aHvgi 
NKV^IO 




S.MWHFllh 


135aj.s idVAC±~rvH 


M s^oiauvM 



n r 

ll 

.*¦ 

p 


& 


a 

F 



















































to to ro ro 

QG O' U 1 


ro 

4 ^ 


to 

c-o 


ro 

ro 


ro 




SU| H?i *fl eaui*Q KiHiiiaiMJlpaiifltfiOau b &¦ SWIMH SSiiCDBOd pwuw?H ng&iH IIV '?"1 -jS 1 tiilH. 


LDiflimweiL 


ikl^iXUl^luu 


aiadV 

o±mv:? 


y^WOl 3NIHD1VW 3H1 


,<•- 3DV1VJ 
' S.NOtfiq-jtEqid 


[xinrOfj 


^a 3 MOi, 

^.MOaiVHOH 


Oj Prince 




AVAA 


yOti^n ffTi nrrn.'WflRv 







































¦/nil-' 



















avou HDIH 3 HJ. 


nu IS Nvaal 




d3AAOj. JdUDON^ 



'J-T ,.¦• [_i. 

rTTTT 




O 


¦sO 


-J 


Ul 


00 


o 


























































































onFi^ 


HjJ-V Wi JJJV 


n in 

~h * 

-LTiyiS 


m;* 

nT3T 

fc 



oo 





Ul 



ro 

a 







































































H3LH 


; 3aVno 

,S t! N|&yj 


•J.L.HW- VTki 
LunflO XT' 


M3AAOJ. a 


¦V 

n-\in 

S5Tt 

Cp 1 
3 Cl 

gEpJ 

J-VG 

Ui-nT 


to to u to to to to to 

Qo "~.J O' Ol -P* CO to ^ 









































































Tahnisi 


ISI^VAL Harbor 






















ELNIVI BRA'S 


U= -II,* ' ' "* ' 



























A rt 


















C iTv Wall Towers 

& GUARDPOST5 


Paved Street 

MAIN AVENUE 


COBBLESTONE STREET 
SECONDARY AVENUf 


CORDUROY-LOG ROAD 

Lesser Avenue 



DlRT/G RAVEL 
Minor Avenues 


Gffn Terrain 


Buildings 

y*. 

Trees 

* 

Well 


Garden 


POND 


TOMB 


Dock/Wharf 

*%¦ *- 

Ward boundaries 


ESCARPMENT 

11050 FrrrHir.-i: 


CLIFF 

:SO 1 OO Ftti HILa-i | 

'¦-¦ v _^ 1 0'- V " 

CONTOUR 

1 loo WB CWTOURl 


MUD BEACH 


Gravel'Mud Beach 


WATF R, SHALLOW 

(075? 


WATER, moderate 

175-1 OO ,1 


WATPR. DEEP 
[ I 50 


R 


B C D es 
























































CASTLE WARD 


W'arda 
[Save rd cep 


IMfl TSR, Inc. All p.ghiT.Pi<wr(tm)i-. 


OCDTDB 




















9 T U 























V W X Y 2, 























'ift; 








_m 


v 

6hl jjjr 


si 1 , ; 1 i 

p: ! 



i w^r 

._ _j 

f j 

a * / ¦ 




i .11, 




f " K 

J[ % /" /' i f ' **3 

\ T* - 

• M . f v . T . I* . 

IrW 

PJf 



.Jr C __.. 

•Ik •• j'l. j| 

r • n s>t 

. • '-H. . . t;,. _1. _" y 





h 

-mm^ U. 

- . ." u _ 



¦ 



jp r - 

| i 

u i 


P f*3i 


mm r t i >i ¦_ 

iHtt I PKktK - 1*(tm)/ 

i' ^ 1 . , ^/;^•^.' , *.*" 

r J[| 1* Ur • r ¦ jW r(1 , ¦" ' - ls " 

M ' 7-1'""' 

!¦ , "W p'L'T- w* ¦ 

i ¦ Hp -^| 

[ "* f 

' - £ 



^T* 






nr 


^BhbV 


¦ ¥ j r '- ,1* j>I>_Tp] 




r*j ft' | ¦ JpJ 


i. vfMwn&toj 


• F Ar* 4 ¦i'jjf 1 


Jfl . . V ; .i . 

||Eg llr|^BH j jb 
































Orct tiyUARG CQUal5 2 ','2 























































1 

* 



.4 -J 

g 

k**'\n**^ 

Si 

UuKH 

c 

gj-fej 



1 v 1 ' Al 

¦ 

|j s 

gppRp € : 

til 

ft ] 

H 


¦ 


^7*1-¦ ¦: :•' 1 ^ 

!. .. ir-^Er**. 

r 

mL 


a$*-M 

r ^!* 

f 

*1 
r ,i 

: '¦ 


c- 

r jfe 

r _ .... 

fiSttittv' ' 

Ji-T 

y 

(300 

gfr 

1^1 * J 


¦3 


n 

P'-^H 


i ,J 

¦ 

ri 

¦fj 

_ _ k 

I s| 

4 

# 

tv' 

- - J MB 

Era 

1 < 

f J 

BMHnr' v, - 

Ik* 

ijf ¦*- 

* J 

I i 




- _¦ 'SB 

f * " - 



, Jr3aj '^^r j;£ 


BV 

§ &&¦*'¦ 

, 



.. Jr,-.• - lij, r ' 1 

mV.rin, r 

U. Jl rXii' lUTL j ' 






















w 

f 

1 li 1 


IrM 

4, 1 

, 1 

ft • 



ir 





¦ ¦*" 

v 

i 

¦j[ i;:. 

•! 

K| i 

A 

Hi: 

t 1In 
J|ni 
ili 

^ jIji 


w,: j 


¦-¦ 



jjjL# ^fcj 






















rr,|(r Fiiia- 







; 
r i 


TTTrr 


? if, 

¦M II i j 


if 'Jj 


r 1 1 1 1 


Mu 

jV 










Jr 

'!'> 

H, W 

r ^ 



rtj, !,'¦¦ fl 

:'• •• "< 
































AQl j 










4j . ¦, ^jiPttip 



' 

*¦ a' 

'¦'• *¦ k '< 1 M 1 

Jm||" * "i fc. 

- : "' t 

n : 



















v" 







31 



V 













- " * 

- t 

Jr 

Iff VI, 
ft 
. fi 















































































































¦VVV 
















































































































v ¦ 




r 




























































































w 

m 








soinxxxeoM. 


LEVEL: 3 


































































































































5;V?v'S 

¦¦¦ ¦ i WS 








































































































1 

. ; 

_l ¦ -A-l, 


¦ . 


<>/-- r 

J 


Is 


.. " •_¦-•¦*^ s 

tjvjl 


































































































H 










i'M-o 

-.K.-_ J_^LX . 





















































































































¦WM 




£ 

m 

w. 

i# 



























































































































































































WmmWk 

&* g 



^ryv>A i 

H i 



< 

|§ 

V^H*Pra 

m 

V\\ vv. Vv\\\ 

f/j 



' V 1 

n 

"j 

L iSBS 























































































































































I I W 





^AA£T< ^,dV& 




J\. 8 v^j.. T ^ 13j 


SirVisg it ._ ¦ .-O' ¦ 1 * jP - 


\ 

o 

-* 



TP ^- 1 

\ \ 

\ 

v , . \ W ' 1 '! 


'h 

o 



\ \\ ~ V 































































































































































11Q9XXX07DE I 934 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




¦ 

¦1 

u 


jj 


H 


</) 

> 

C 

H 

3] 

m 

T 


> 


n 


n 




























































































































































































pa 



















































































Side View 



ISmTir 
































































































































MiW 



W 


L i tet:oct£-| i At? Vol'ux- K'euou SVeii It Bepue! 


Iiink Jim know everything there L? to know about rhe Citj nf Splendors? Think awin'. Based on material 
Xp-^rsginaU.v presented in Hit Waterdeep and the .Vorfft suit) C'eHV Sv.'tff'w, this bov expands nil that 
inibnnutkm 
i,Jld SLclflH " v er 2IH) |]a^"fnfw character, magic:, and excitement! Here's what's insfedd 


n IZX'pagc ( amptiiffn Guide with tv|idnd"ii city map kevs and new information im every pari 
of ihe cil> 


¦ u $f-paie Wfiu'x H im, giving you detail on (he nobles bind either NPCs of 
Hntwdeep lover I On new characters i m thin hunk alone!) 

¦ a 64-page Guide for players,, with the Adve(r)tar*rs ! Quarter, a 

hew area of W aterdeep complete wEltl over Sill new NPCs 

¦ a Ih-page Sccn-ts 1mmA, Mining (hi- semis mf the IS PCs and adventures oF (he 
Adventu rers' Quarter 

ft juvnar maps, includin'] new maps of the eili and two photo maps nf the 
Adventurers' Quarter 

1 I ft MUH'ifKd'UK Cl)!VIPKNiJn.l>1 Appendix pages* vyitli 13 ntvcr-buftnr- 
sceg] monsters to haunt the shadows of the dt\ 



C vmu explore (he greatest cMy oF thy Realms in this compilation of everything about the t'iLv of 
Splendors. From tin.* spires of Rierge iron's Palace to the depths of Und or mountain, lh is Ctlv"s sure 
In thrill players bind Dungeon Masters alike fijr vi-nrs. 



TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
] nke Geneva 
Ml 53147 
USA 



I SR Ud. 
1211 Church Kntf 
Cherry Him on 
Cambridge CRI 31 El 

United Kingdom 


S2S*MMJ.S* S35.00 CAN £15,99 U.R. loci. VAT 


'¦JfciMlaian n:s hi h " l -i MOWiki i i umhismi h m , , r; -. ,"j . .-,,."..n,, ihu.k,. 

"fir Tsk !¦ E r s " I * ¦ P i -:-r I- p*jitiJ hr tS, It- TFi !"¦ 

I.D kifhK iii sri i'll IVtakd in lh I cJikI Stain ¦/ iii^f . i 


















































