Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09262 AD& D FR Cities Of Mystery"
See other formats
ns.n 


radons 


P.St 0.9 


Dozens or 3-D 
cardboard buildings, 
street plans, and full 
instructions for creating 
cities and the fantastic 
adventures that take 
place within them. 


HA 


Cities of Mgst&ug 


hi/ itxm Rabe 





















CiTies of MysTerzy 


Table of 


Introduction . 2 

Where to Locate Cities . 3 

Hamlet or Metropolis? . 5 

What Kind of Government? . 7 

Putting Life into Leaders . 12 

Charting the Government .14 

The City's Defenses.15 

Fabricating a History . 18 

Makeup of the Population.19 

Taxes: A Fact of Life . 20 

A City's Building Blocks.21 

Where Goes the Neighborhood?.22 

Crime and Punishment.24 

City Design Sheets .25 

Customs and Beliefs.27 


CobfCebfCs 


Putting the PCs to Work . 28 

Keeping the Party Together.32 

Special Events.33 

The Lifeblood of the City.34 

Making the Fantastic Real .39 

How to Use the Fold-ups .40 

Encounters in the City .41 

Sauter, City on the Sea.46 

City Adventures 

Ike Likes Spiders and Snakes.50 

A Slave to the Music .52 

The Horrible Haunting of Mycky Fynn's .54 

A Grand Illusion.57 

The Maltese Roc .59 

Adventure Ideas . 64 


Cn.eb'tTs 

Author: Jean Rabe 
Building Fold-ups: Dennis Kauth 
Editor: Kim Mohan 
Cover Art: Larry Elmore 
Interior Art: Chris Miller 

Typography: Angelika Lokotz and Betty Elmore 
Keylining: Stephanie Tabat 
Product Manager: Bruce Heard 

Acknowledgement: Special thanks to Skip Williams for his 
suggestions on city design. 



TSR, Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 USA 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, FORGOTTEN REALMS, DRAGON, PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

(c) 1989 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

9262 ISBN 0-088038-744-0 


9262XXX1501 

































Welcome to Cities of Mystery, a product 
designed to help you, the Dungeon Master, 
create colorful, exciting cities for your 
campaign-taking the mystery out of creat 
ing and using city environments in a fantasy 
role-playing game. With the aid of the build 
ing fold-ups included in this product, cities 
will come to life before your players' eyes. 

Although the text of this book contains 
terms and specifics that pertain to the 
D&D(r) game, the AD&D(r) game, and the 
AD&D 2nd Edition game, the facts and prin 
ciples can be used in conjunction with any 
fantasy role-playing game. A city is a city - 
no matter what game system the city is 
located in. 

Well-developed cities are an important 
part of every good campaign, because play 
er characters must visit cities throughout 
their adventuring careers. Cities are ideal 
places for PCs to purchase equipment and 
to rest between adventures. Unfortunately, 
that is all cities are to many players, because 
their DMs concentrate on developing 
dungeons and wilderness scenarios to tax 
the abilities of the players' characters. But 
cities can be much more than waysides and 
watering holes. They are places teeming 
with life, and they hold as much mystery 
and adventure as the deepest, darkest 
dungeons. 

Some of the chapters in Cities of Mystery 
begin with boxed text. These are designed 
to be entertaining and to help you get a bet 
ter feel for some of the characters who 
might populate your fantasy cities. The 
characters in these boxed sections are 
Athormis, a mage, and Boliver, a dwarf. 
They are adventurers who have visited 
many cities and consider themselves 
experts. If you wish, you can develop statis 
tics for these personalities and add them to 
your city campaigns. 

The 

Foun£>aT)ok) 

Cities of Mystery will teach you how to 
create vibrant cities that will become essen 
tial parts of your campaign. You will learn 
how to place cities on your campaign map, 
paying attention to geographic features and 
climate. You will find out how to determine 
the size of a city. In addition, an extensive 
list of merchants and shopkeepers is pre 
sented to help add life to your cities' busi 
ness districts. And encounter charts will 
help you keep the action moving. 


You also will be given an overview of vari 
ous forms of governments which you can 
establish in your cities. A city can be nearly 
useless without a government; taking time 
to select a government for each city the PCs 
visit is worfh the effort. In addition, you will 
learn how to create rulers and give them 
personalities that will affect how the city is 
run. 

Other aspects that are covered include 
establishing city defenses; creating histories 
for cities; setting up celebrations and spe 
cial events; determining the races that live 
there; deciding what a city's buildings are 
made of; and establishing neighborhoods 
for the various factions within a commu 
nity. In addition, a tax system can be imple 
mented, and a list of crimes and penalties 
can be set up. All of these aspects of city life 
need to be considered when constructing 
communities for your player characters' 
enjoyment. 

Cities of Mystery will help you get player 
characters closely involved in your cities by 
putting them to work as merchants, guards, 
or in other professions, or by giving them 
roles in the government or defense of a city. 

SavCToiz AKid The 
AdvosiXuizes 

In addition to all of the guidelines outlined 
above. Cities of Mystery contains a sample 
city, Sauter, which was created using fhe 
information presented in the product. Sau 
ter can be used as a sample you can study 
when creating your own cities, or it can be 
more fully developed and added to your 
campaign. 

Five complete city adventures are includ 
ed with this product. Although they are 
written based on the AD&D game and the 
AD&D 2nd Edition game, with a little 
adjusting they can be used with nearly any 
fantasy game system. The adventures are 
for characters of a variety of levels, and 
there is room for you to expand the adven 
tures based on the businesses and charac 
ters in your own cities. 

Following the adventures is a page filled 
with adventure plots just waiting to be 
fleshed out for the pleasure of you and your 
players. 

Bwldisig Fold-ups 

The stars of Cities of Mystery are the 
street layouts and building fold-ups that can 


be assembled to add a new dimension of 
gaming to city adventures. The buildings 
are easy to put together; the directions are 
on the back of the building diagrams. More 
than 30 buildings can be created from this 
packet. The buildings can be arranged 
many different ways on the street layouts, 
and many of the one-story buildings can be 
stacked to create multistory buildings or 
towers. The buildings are made to scale for 
25mm miniatures and are sturdy enough to 
support miniatures on their upper stories 
and roofs. The buildings can be folded flat 
for easy storage and can be kept in the Cit 
ies of Mystery box and taken to game ses 
sions. And the buildings and streets in this 
product can be added to; future accessories 
for the AD&D game, the D&D game, and 
the AD&D Oriental Adventures game will 
contain more buildings and streets that can 
be merged with the set in Cities of Mystery. 

City encounters are more fun with the 
fold-ups. As DM, you can set up city blocks 
in advance of a gaming session, concealing 
monsters and characters under various 
buildings. As player characters explore the 
city or move through a preset adventure, 
they go from building to building. You lift up 
the buildings they enter to show the occu 
pants. There won't be any arguing about 
where player characters and their adver 
saries are standing, because the fold-ups 
and miniatures detail the placements. More 
directions for using the fold-ups and the 
street layouts are presented throughout 
this product. 

GeTDwg SXAnXed 

In planning the cities for your fantasy 
campaigns, you have all of history -and 
your imagination-to draw from. You might 
choose to pattern your cities after real ones 
of the present or the past. Cities have exist 
ed nearly as long as people, beginning when 
groups of cavemen, hunters, and foragers 
banded together to protect themselves 
from other tribes. Cities are responsible for 
the rise of commerce and industry, and they 
are also credited with advancing the arts, 
literature, and education. And cities will be 
attractive in your campaign as long as you 
keep them interesting and exciting for your 
players. 


2 



WHERE TO LOCATE CITIES 



The dwarf tucked his long gray beard 
into his belt, looked up at his human 
friend, and sighed. 

"We've been on the road too long, 
Athormis. It's time to spend some of our 
wealth in a city; dine on fine meals, ride 
on a riverboat, spend a few evenings in a 
tavern. Maybe there'll be a festival. And 
that city looks as good as any other," the 
dwarf said, pointing toward Sauter, a 
hustling city located at the juncture of a 
river and the sea. 

"Ah, Boliver," the human mage replied. 
"Yes, I think you're right. A week away 
from adventuring would do us both 
some good. I'm getting too old to spend 
every night sleeping in the woods. 
Besides, I'm in need of some spell compo 
nents. And I'm sure you're in need of 
some ale." 

The pair walked toward the city, their 
backpacks full of treasure from their last 
adventure and happily weighing them 
down. 

"I like river cities," Boliver mused. 
"Those kinds of cities have plenty of tav 
erns and a good number of adventurers 
passing through. Barge captains and sail 
ors always seem loaded with rumors of 
treasure to be gained and castles to 
explore. After a week or so here we'll be 
ready to pursue one of those rumors. 
And maybe after that we can travel up to 
"a mountain village. We haven't been to 
the mountains in a while." 


The first step in creating interesting cities 
for your campaign is deciding where to 
place them. It is not good enough to unfold 
your campaign map and make marks at ran 
dom to represent cities. While it might look 
nice to have cities evenly spaced three to 
four inches apart on a map, that sort of 
placement might not be realistic or practi 
cal. The better judgment you use in locating 
your cities, the more enjoyment and satis 
faction you and your players will get out of 
them. 

Communities are established in certain 
locations for certain purposes, and a com 
munity grows to the size of a village, town, 
or city for a reason. For example, a lake- 
shore settlement of fishermen might even 
tually grow into a town that becomes 
involved in exporting fish to other com 
munities. A seacoast village that boasts a 
deep harbor could grow into a major trad 


ing city because it has the best harbor with 
in hundreds of miles. Or a mining 
community that began with a half-dozen 
dwarves could develop into a town of a few 
thousand people who have a dozen differ 
ent livelihoods, but who ultimately are sup 
ported because of the presence of the mine. 

If your campaign map is one that came 
with a fantasy game product, it probably 
already has several cities on it. Of course, 
you can always add more -as long as where 
you put them (and why you locate them 
there) makes sense. 

If your campaign map is one you have cre 
ated, look at the terrain features you have 
devised and compare them with terrain fea 
tures and cities in an atlas. Study the fea 
tures on a map, and you will be able to 
reason out why a town or city comes into 
being in a certain location. This knowledge 
will help you to place cities in realistic loca 
tions on your campaign map. 

Lakes: Cities located along lakes fre 
quently rely on fishing and hunting as their 


prime industries or livelihoods. In addition, 
lakes provide a source of fresh water, which 
is a necessity to all communities. Some lake- 
shore cities are involved in farming, draw 
ing water from the lake to the crops. And 
some become involved in forestry because 
of the profusion of trees which usually 
grow near lakes. If the lake is large enough, 
or serves as a source for a river, it can be 
used as a transportation route and will 
allow cities located on the lake to more easi 
ly engage in trade with other cities. 

Seacoasts: Many large cities are found 
along seacoasts because of the opportuni 
ties the coast provides the populace. The 
coast is a source of industries, such as fish 
ing and shipping. A city located along a por 
tion of coast that affords a deep harbor can 
develop a shipbuilding industry and 
become a vital trading port, developing a 
myriad of industries and growing in popula 
tion. A tourist industry can develop, since 
ship passengers and crewmen must do 
something with their time between jour- 


3 







neys. Many coastal cities are also on rivers, 
which provides an avenue for transporting 
goods inland. 

Rivers: For many of the same reasons 
given above for lakes and seacoasts, cities 
develop along rivers. Rivers provide a fish 
ing industry and are a source of transporta 
tion for taking goods to other communities. 
Grain mills and lumber mills can develop, 
powered by the river. 

Plains: Many farming communities 
begin in areas of relatively flat, fertile 
ground. These communities are usually 
smaller than those found along waterways. 
They are often close-knit, with the populace 
having common concerns and goals. Other 
cities rely on these communities to sell them 
foodstuffs. In addition, sometimes towns 
will develop in plains areas because the 
location is a good stopping point on a trade 
or travel route between two larger cities. 
These "in-between" towns have a variety of 
industries or livelihoods, frequently provid 
ing goods which are picked up by mer 
chants traveling between larger cities. 

Mountains: Farming communities that 
concentrate on herd animals such as goats 
and sheep, and communities built around 
hunting and forestry, can be found in 
mountainous areas. Other industries such 
as fishing (from mountain streams) and tex 
tile manufacturing (from goat hair and 
wool) also thrive in mounfain towns. In 
addition, some mountain "boom towns" can 
be found next to copper, silver, or gold 
mines. These towns could be filled with a 
mix of peoples and industries all dependent 
on the success of the mines. 

Forests: Hunting and forestry industries 
are among the prime reasons communities 
develop in wooded areas. Like plains towns, 
these towns are often small and close-knit, 
and many of these towns also will be located 
along a river or lake. 

Deserts: Towns in these arid places are 
few. Most of them develop around an oasis 
and must rely on trade from other cities to 
support them. However, towns in desert cli 
mates can develop industries, such as herd 
ing or selling animals native to the 
land -camels, birds, and reptiles. In addi 
tion, some of these towns could have devel 
oped because they were stopping points 
between larger cities. 


Combination: Many cities will exist 
where more than one of the above geo 
graphic features are present. In any combi 
nation, water is almost always one of the 
elements. For example, a village of hunters 
nestled deep in the woods might be a short 
distance from a river. Or a town that devel 
oped because it was a convenient stop 
between two large cities could be near a 
small lake. 

The Fantastic: Since the AD&D(r) game, 
D&D(r) game, and other fantasy role-playing 
games are filled with wondrous and 
fantastic things, cities in those worlds can 
be located in unusual, "unrealistic" spots. 
For example, a city populated by sages 
might thrive on a cold, lonely mountain 
peak; an isolated group of people could 
have built a stumring city with golden spires 
in the middle of a dormant volcano; a village 
built on stilts over a nrist-covered bog could 
serve as the home for an austere and war 
like band of fighters. 

In a fantastic universe, not all of the stand 
ard "rules" need apply. If the residents of a 
town have some magical means of obtaining 
water, it wouldn't be necessary for their 
community to be located near a lake or riv 
er. If they can likewise create food magi 
cally, then their community could be 
located in a barren, isolated spot (such as 
the city of sages described above) far away 
from any fertile land or trade routes. 

However, even in a world where magic 
exists; it is important that fantastic cities be 
limited in number. If they are the norm 
instead of the exception, they will not be 
unusual and distinctive to your players, and 
their excitement and interest level will drop 
off. In order for the fantastic to be seen as 
fantastic, you must use such devices spar 
ingly. 

Even a fantastic city must have a reason 
for being located where it is. Perhaps the 
city filled with sages came into being on that 
mountaintop because a sacred item is wedg 
ed in a crack near the peak, and the sages 
congregated in this location so they could 
protect it. Perhaps a group of people discov 
ered some great treasure in the dormant 
volcano and built a city there because they 
considered it an omen that their people 
should stay. And maybe the warlike tribe of 
fighters lives in the stilt village because they 
believe the place can be easily defended, 
and they hope their enemies will fall into 
the patches of quicksand that ring most of 
their buildings - but which the tribesmen. 


because of their familiarity with the place, 
can easily avoid. 

Other possible locations for fantastic cit 
ies could include the ocean floor, a station 
ary cloud, in the boughs of a huge tree, deep 
within the earth, in an interdimensional 
pocket, or on a solid patch of ground in the 
middle of a dark and dangerous swamp. Let 
your imagination run free, but remember 
not to overdo the number of "unearthly" cit 
ies you place on your campaign map. Even 
in a fantastic universe, the laws and princi 
ples of our real world will still apply for 
most of the communities that come into 
existence. 

Climate: Weather conditions can have a 
significant impact on the location of cities. 
For example, it would not make sense to 
locate a city with a population of 10,000 on a 
polar icecap, or to put a farming community 
in an area where rains are brief and infre 
quent. Many of the cities on a continent will 
be found in temperate areas where the peo 
ple can live comfortably - especially since 
people in medieval-flavored fantasy worlds 
do not have the modern-world advantages 
of heating and insulation. 

Proximity: The locations of cities also 
affects where towns grow. For example, 
small towns can be found around larger cit 
ies. The towns produce raw materials for 
the large city to use in making more sophis 
ticated items; for instance, a town provides 
hides and skins from livestock, which are 
shipped to manufacturing plants in the city 
and made into finished goods (boots, vests, 
and so forth). Some of the smaller towns 
around a city are usually farming communi 
ties that provide food for the city's popula 
tion. In turn, the city provides finished 
goods and opportunities for entertainment 
and employment to the townspeople. 


4 








HAMLET OR METROPOLIS? 


Athormis eyed the people walking up 
and down the raised wooden sidewalks 
in front of the shops. The wooden side 
walks extended as far as he could see 
toward the ocean, and nearly every 
building had steps leading up from the 
raised sidewalks to the front doors. 
Boliver noticed the mage staring. 

"This part of the city is very close to 
the river, Athormis. The people built 
their businesses up higher in case the 
river jumps its banks. They must have 
had a dwarf involved, because some 
times humans don't think about such 
things." 

The mage scowled at his friend and 
Changed the subject. "This is a real city, 
Boliver. Thousands upon thousands of 
people live here. There are not too many 
cities this large on the continent. And 
judging from my map, this is the largest 
city this far north. No wonder we passed 
so many villages on our way here. The 
people in those villages probably supply 
a lot of goods to the businesses here. And 
there's probably enough going on in this 
city that we could lose ourselves here for 
more than a week." 


Size The SocUL 
CUrnaTe 

The size of a city is important, because 
that fact will help determine the number 
and types of industries or livelihoods found 
there. The size of a city could also deter 
mine how often the player characters in 
your campaign visit it and for what reasons. 
For example, PCs who are looking for good 
bargains on equipment or other necessities 
might find them more often in a village, 
where tire shopkeepers' needs are simpler, 
and their prices lower, than those of similar 
merchants in a larger town. But if PCs are 
looking for excitement or employment, 
they're probably better off going to large 
cities, where there are many more opportu 
nities of those sorts. 

In medieval times it was common for a 
person to go through his entire life without 
traveling more than 20 miles from the town, 
village, or city where he was bom. The com 
munity had everything these people 
needed-food, shelter, and a feeling of cam 
araderie. In many cases the people were so 
poor they could not afford transportation to 


larger cities and found themselves tied to 
their village, land, and lieges. This isolation 
caused a community, especially a smaller 
community, to be more close-knit and pro 
tective of its members: Everyone knew 
everyone else. The larger the city, the more 
likely that many residents had not lived 
their entire lives there, and the less likely 
that the city enjoyed a close-knit atmos 
phere. It would usually be easier for a per 
son to remain anonymous in a larger city, 
losing himself in the crowd. You should 
keep these facts in mind as you create and 
populate communities in your campaign. 

Following are definitions of types of com 
munities based on size. Once you have 
located a good spot for a community, the 
next step is to decide how large (in popula 
tion) that community will be. 

Hamlet: This is the smallest kind of city, 
and in a medieval-flavored fantasy cam 
paign it is probably the most numerous type 
of community. A hamlet consists of no more 
than a few dozen homes that are grouped 
together in the country. 

The population of a hamlet ranges 
between 50 and 250, with three to eight 
people per home. The people in a hamlet 
are likely to be of one race, to come from 
similar backgrounds, and to have similar 
livelihoods and interests. For example, all of 
a hamlet's residents could be wheat farmers 
who have built their homes next to each 
other for mutual protection and for a sense 
of community. Or, a hamlet could consist of 
a few homes belonging to silver miners, 
who have no desire to see their community 
grow any larger (because they don't want to 
share the wealth any more than it's being 
shared already). 

It is difficult for outsiders to be accepted 
in a community as small as a hamlet. 
Although hamlets will not have temples or 
monasteries, many hamlets are within a 
few miles of a town or city which has such 
features. 

Village: This is a grouping of more than 
two dozen homes, but fewer than 200, with 
a population ranging between 200 and 
1,000. Like a hamlet, a village will have resi 
dents with similar livelihoods and who 
probably belong to the same race. However, 
there will be more of a variety in interests 
and a chance for some of the residents to be 
of a different race, but one which gets along 
with the predominant race. For example, a 
village of humans might have a few half-elf 


residents. 

If a village is the center of a farming com 
munity, the residents could be involved in 
herding livestock, spinning wool, farming 
wheat, and growing fruit. In comparison, 
the residents of a hamlet might all farm the 
same crop. A large village could have a small 
temple or monastery and a few stores 
which carry basic goods to meet the popula 
tion's needs. 

A small village is much like a hamlet in 
that outsiders are regarded as strangers 
and are not readily accepted. However, vil 
lagers can be friendly, and the actions of the 
outsiders will determine how long it takes 
for them to be assimilated into the village. 

The people who live in villages usually 
have everything they need to sustain their 
rather simple livelihoods. However, adven 
turing player characters with other than 
basic needs could become frustrated with 
the lack of variety in the services and goods 
available in a village. 

Town: Larger than a village but smaller 
than a city, a town consists of many homes 
and several public buildings, including a 
business district. The population of a town 
in a medieval fantasy world could range 
from 500 to 15,000, with the larger towns 
having a mix of races. There are a variety of 
industries in a town, with the larger towns 
having more different industries. In addi 
tion, some of the larger towns might be 
located near a large city. 

Towns are large enough to support guilds, 
and members of the guild tend to congre 
gate in neighborhoods. Towns are also large 
enough to support temples and monas 
teries. The larger the town, the more likely 
there will be a divergence in beliefs, mean 
ing that temples and monasteries could be 
erected to support a variety of religions. 
However, it is possible, especially in the 
realm of fantasy, for a town to allow the offi 
cial worshiping of only one religion. 

Player characters might feel more com 
fortable in towns than in villages and ham 
lets, since more goods are available and 
there are more people to mix with. And 
because there are more people, the adven 
turers will feel less like outsiders. 

City: A city is larger and is in many 
respects considered more important than a 
town. It boasts more public buildings, a 
larger business district or more than one 
business district, and is home to more 
industries. Cities draw many people from 


5 







the surrounding area because of the oppor 
tunities for work. In most cases, the larger 
the city, the more varied the opportunities, 
the wider the variety of industries, and the 
more cultures and races of people are rep 
resented. Cities can have a more complex 
administration than smaller communities, 
since there are more people to manage, 
more businesses to oversee, and usually 
more officials involved in the government. 
Although it is difficult to pin a population 
number to the definition of a city, for the 
purpose of creating cities for a campaign, 
consider the range to be from 15,000 to 
200,000. It is impractical for a city with a 
medieval flavor to have a population larger 
than the higher number. 

The Big P)ctme 

When establishing the size of communi 
ties, you should also consider the number of 
cities in your world or in a country in your 
world. Unless you have a specific reason for 
doing things differently, apply these general 
rules when deciding how many communi 
ties of a certain size exist in your campaign 
world or in a country within that world. 

At least half of the communities should be 
hamlets or small villages, one-quarter to 
one-third large villages or small to medium 
sized towns, and the remainder large towns 
and cities. Only a very few of the communi 
ties in any area should be large cities with 


populations in excess of 75,000; in fact, it 
would not be unbelievable to have only one 
city of this size in an entire country or even 
an entire continent. 

Again, for a real-world reference, look at 
the list of communities and their popula 
tions that is generally provided along with a 
map of a country or state in an atlas. You 
will see that the vast majority of the com 
munities are quite small in population, and 
only a very small proportion are major cit 
ies covering a lot of land and containing 
many thousands of people. It will take quite 
a bit more time for you to create dozens of 
small communities than it would to spot a 
half-dozen big cities and say that almost 
everyone lives in one of them, but the end 
result will be a more believable and more 
realistic world-which is important for the 
sake of your and your players' enjoyment. 

Plausible PlacemewT 

Once you have determined how many cit 
ies of what size will go in a country, you 
must be careful to assign each community 
to a location that makes sense according to 
its size. The largest cities likely will be found 
along a coast or adjacent to a large river 
because of the opportunities for commerce 
that the waterways afford. This does not 
mean that small towns and villages should 
not be placed beside or near a river, lake, or 
ocean - everybody needs and uses water. 


However, it would not make a lot of sense to 
put a very large city miles from a waterway 
in an area of the country that is nearly inac 
cessible. It would not make sense for a large 
city to have developed in such a place, 
because not very many people would 
choose to live in such a remote location, and 
the opportunities for business and com 
merce would not support an extremely 
large population. 

Choosing x CxpfTxl 

If you want to designate one of your new 
ly placed cities as the capital of a country or 
a province, you do not have to choose the 
largest one. However, the capital of a coun 
try should be a city, not a town or a village. 
The capital is the center of government for 
a country or province and is usually also a 
nucleus of merchant or trade activity, so it 
should be placed where people can travel to 
and from it easily, which usually means 
locating it on the bank of a large river or 
along the seacoast. 




£ 03 ^ 


Wc 
_ 






WHAT KIND OF GOVERNMENT? 


"I wonder what sort of political system 
they have here," Athormis said, brushing 
some of the dust off his robes and lead 
ing the dwarf into a large inn. It was a lit 
tle past midday, and the mage hadn't 
eaten for several hours. 

"You're always interested in that sort 
of stuff," the dwarf replied. "It only con 
cerns me when the government taxes 
visiting adventurers." 

The pair chose a table near the front 
window so they could watch the activity 
outside. Boliver opened his menu, grum 
bled under his breath about the prices, 
and proceeded to order for himself and 
the mage. 

"You don't quite understand," Athor 
mis interjected as he studied his menu, 
not realizing his meal had been selected 
for him while he was lost in concentra 
tion. "I'll have the roast duck and the 
boiled potatoes," he said as the cook 
walked past him, but failed to notice that 
the man wasn't paying attention. Then 
he turned back to Boliver. "A govern 
ment is the most necessary element in 
any city. The government is linked to 
nearly all aspects of a city's operation 
and usually determines the atmosphere 
of a city; progressive, thriving, stagnant, 
decaying, friendly, or hostile. I know. 
I've studied such things. Besides, from 
our standpoint governments are a con 
tinual source of adventuring opportuni 
ties and -1 suppose from your stand 
point -can be a continual source of 
problems. 

"The government "establishes taxes, 
which affect every city resident -and 
sometimes visiting adventurers. The 
government usually determines a city's 
relationship with neighboring cities, 
which also affects residents and visitors. 
The government establishes a city's mili 
tia, in which you might find yourself 
someday if you keep grumbling about 
the adventures I select. And what's 
more, the government is linked to mer 
cantile activity, sometimes regulating 
commerce and determining who can sell 
and what can be sold." 

"All right. Point made," Boliver said, 
watching the kitchen door and sniffing. 
"They're necessary. But most govern 
ments I've witnessed - and I've wit 
nessed as many governments as I have 
hairs in my beard -levy too many taxes. 


have too many regulations, and the offi 
cials in the government are too stuffy, 
overbearing, and unapproachable." 

The pair continued to chat about poli 
tics and politicians, while an elderly elf 
with long white hair watched them from 
a comer table. The cook brought the 
pair their meal. The elf, finished with 
his, rose and walked past them. 

"Good afternoon, gentlemen, and wel 
come to our city. I believe you're new to 
Sauter. My name is White William. I'm 
one of the city leaders. I hope you have a 
pleasant stay." 


Whenever people band together to form a 
community, they will live under some form 
of government. One or more leaders will 
emerge from the group, and those leaders 
will have a lot to say about the quality of life 
in the community, by virtue of how they 
exercise their power. 

Each community might have a form of 
government different from the government 
in the next closest community. Or, you 
might choose to have a dominant form of 
government in a country, with all the com 
munities in that country having the same 
form of government. Sometimes the form 
of government you select for a city could 
also extend to the land surrounding a city, 
so that farmers, herders, miners, or other 
people living outside the city walls are 
affected by the laws. 

Below are brief descriptions of various 
types of governments and examples of how 
each government could be used in a fantasy 
campaign. Some of the types have similari 
ties, and you might want to consider com 
bining similar types into a special hybrid. 
Please note that each example is just that- 
one possibility of what the rulership under 
a particular form of government could be. 
Following each example is a suggestion of 
how player characters could become 
involved with each form of government. 
This list of governments is not exhaustive, 
but should present you with several options 
for establishing city governments in your 
campaign. 

Anarchy: This is basically a lack of gov 
ernment. It is marked by an absence of laws 
and an obvious state of disorder marked by 
violence, unrest, and assorted attempts to 
exert control. The wealthy or the physically 
powerful (or a coalition of both types of peo 


ple) usually have the most influence in this 
type of community, but they aren't leaders 
in the true sense of the word because the 
community at large doesn't recognize them 
as such. Anarchy can develop when a coup 
against the former government is success 
ful, but the overthrowing forces cannot 
come into power. Chaos takes hold. Or a 
monarch could die without an heir, leaving 
the town to govern itself. The residents, 
unable to determine a form of government, 
decide on no government. 

Example: A small town is in a state of 
anarchy because the populace overthrew a 
tyrannical leader. The populace decides it 
doesn't need to be governed, claiming each 
resident should live the way he wants to. 

Player characters could be very frus 
trated in this environment and could feel 
like adults in a community of children who 
each demand their own way. if the PCs do 
not decide to get out fast, they might want 
to attempt to establish some form of govern 
ment, putting one of the more responsible 
residents in charge. 

Autocracy: In this form of government, 
one self-appointed person holds supreme 
authority. It is a form of dictatorship in 
which the ruler is sometimes considered a 
tyrant or a despot. The larger the commu 
nity, the more people the autocrat likely will 
have beneath him to help control the popu 
lace. However, no matter how many subor 
dinates the autocrat has, he still maintains 
control. An autocrat can come to power in 
many ways, such as by usurping authority 
in a military takeover. 

Example: The head of a small city is an 
autocrat. He rules the populace with an iron 
hand, strictly regulating all commerce and 
movement in and out of the city. Foreigners 
can come into the city to do business and 
purchase goods, but few of the city's resi 
dents are allowed outside the gates. The 
population is heavily taxed, and is therefore 
kept poor and powerless. 

Player characters visiting such a city 
could find the living situation uncomforta 
ble and might find themselves embroiled in 
an adventure that involves an attempt to 
overthrow the tyrant. 

Bureaucracy: This is essentially govern 
ment by bureaus or departments, or it can 
be considered the consequence of another 
form of government which establishes 
bureaus. The departments establish laws 
and rules and expect adherence to the 


7 





WHAT KIND OF GOVERNMENT? 


administration's guidelines. This govern 
ment could be established by several 
means, such as by election by the populace. 
The tone of this government can be varied, 
based on the makeup of the bureaucrats. 
Perhaps the bureaus are really looking out 
for the public's best interests. Or perhaps 
the members of the bureaucracy are greedy 
and selfish, filling their coffers instead of 
the public's. 

Example: The government of a large town 
is a bureaucracy composed of five depart 
ments responsible for maintaining the 
town's defenses and militia; dealing with all 
commerce activities; handling public 
improvements; setting up laws and han 
dling judicial matters; and collecting taxes 
and distributing the money to the other 
bureaus. 

Player characters in a town with this form 
of government might be a part of one of 
these departments or could find themselves 
affected by a department's decisions. 

Collegium: This is government by an 
elite group of people, each of whom has 
approximately the same amount of power. 
The members within the group determine 
how members are replaced and whether 
the group should be expanded. Again, the 
tone of government with this system can 
vary based on the individuals involved. 

Example: A collegium of 12 people gov 
erns a mid-sized town. Each member of the 
collegium is recognized as a wise and intelli 
gent member of the community. Each mem 
ber has the same authority and might be 
assigned the task of looking after a certain 
section of the town or a certain area of the 
town's operation. All decisions and rales are 
made by vote of the collegium. 

Player characters in a town with this form 
of government might find themselves part 
of the collegium or could be asked by the 
collegium to perform various tasks. 

Democracy: The residents of this com 
munity have established their own govern 
ment, either by putting themselves in the 
government or by appointing representa 
tives to rule for them. Each resident likely 
will be considered equal under the law 
each with the same rights and opportuni 
ties. This is also considered government by 
the majority. 

Example: A large city has a democratic 
government. The populace holds an annual 
election to determine who among them will 
be the representatives charged with gov 


erning the city. The representatives set poli 
cies and enforce laws according to the 
majority of the people's wishes. 

Player characters in a city governed by a 
democracy could be involved in getting a 
NPC elected or could campaign for a posi 
tion themselves. 

Dictatorship: Similar in some respects 
to an autocracy, a dictatorship is a very 
strict form of government in which author 
ity resides in the hands of one individual. 
However, this person is not necessarily a 
tyrant or despot. The ruler could be wise 
and concerned about his people. Dictators 
can come to power in many ways, such as 
through tightly controlled elections or mili 
tary coups; however, in most cases the 
masses have no voice in the choice of a dic 
tator. A dictator will have others in author 
ity beneath him -whom he appoints and 
maintains control over. 

Example: The dictator of a town is a rigid 
individual with a military background who 
requires strict adherence to his laws. 
Although he is not an evil-aligned person, he 
is quick to have residents punished who do 
not follow his policies. The town is well kept 
up, with streets continually being repaired 
and storefronts clean and orderly. However, 
not all of the town's money goes for public 
improvements. This dictator enjoys wealth, 
living in a large estate and taking some of 
the residents' tax money to use for his per 
sonal wants. 

A player character in this town could be 
working with residents to effect a change in 
the government so that the laws are not so 
stringent and the people not taxed so heavi 
ly. PCs in this situation are at great risk, for 
if they are caught the punishment could be 
severe. 

Feodality: This is a form of government 
that is almost always coupled with another 
government type, with the officials in that 
government setting up a system of feudal 
ism. A feodality is a hierarchy in which 
power is held by people in a "layered sys 
tem, with each layer being responsible to 
the layer above it. In some respects this is 
like a historical medieval feudal system; 
serfs who worked the land were responsi 
ble to the vassals, who were responsible to 
more powerful lords or a king. 

Example: A dictator who establishes a feo 
dality in a town sets up three layers of 
authority. A group of businessmen are 
responsible to a group of wealthy land 


owners, who are responsible to a few very 
wealthy and very powerful nobles, who are 
ultimately responsible to the dictator. 

Player characters in a community of this 
type could be tied to NPCs in any of the 
three layers and could be asked to perform 
various missions for that group and ulti 
mately for the community. Or, the PCs could 
be dissatisfied with the government and 
seek to add another layer to the feodality, so 
that the laborers or farmers have represen 
tation. 

Gerontocracy: This is rule by elderly 
men and women. The gerontocracy could 
consist of a council made up of town resi 
dents who are older than a certain age (per 
haps 60 for humans, probably much higher 
for demihumans), or it could be a govern 
ment where the elders in the community 
elect a leader from among themselves. This 
form of leadership could exist because the 
residents of the community believe that the 
eldest members possess the most wisdom 
and the most life experience, and are there 
fore the best to govern. 

Example: The leader of a town is an 
elderly man elected by all the town resi 
dents who are of old age -at least 60 for 
humans, 67 for halflings, 83 for half-elves, 
133 for gnomes, 167 for dwarves, and 233 
for elves. The leader establishes town poli 
cies and seeks the advice of the town's other 
elderly residents. The older people in town 
receive more benefits and are taxed less 
heavily than the younger residents. 

Player characters in this environment, 
especially those of young age, could be frus 
trated with the atmosphere and might 
become involved in a movement to reform 
the government or to get representation for 
younger individuals. 

Gynarchy/Matriarchy: Women rule in 
this form of government, whether it be a 
council of several women or one woman 
who is in a supreme position of authority. 
This situation can come about several ways; 
perhaps women are dominant in this city or 
are in such greater numbers than men that 
they can establish the government. In a 
matriarchy, rale is held by older women; in 
a gynarchy, no distinction is made for age. 

Example: A body of five women rule a 
mid-sized city. Although they work to bene 
fit the city, not themselves, females in the 
city do receive better treatment and have 
more rights than they probably would expe 
rience under a different government. 


WHAT KIND OF GOVERNMENT? 


Male player characters might not want to 
stay in this environment long. The player 
characters could seek to change the status 
of men in the community-with or without 
overthrowing the government. Female 
player characters might enjoy this form of 
leadership and could get involved in keep 
ing down attempts to overthrow it. 

Hierarchy or Hierocracy: Clergy gov 
ern in this system, with the highest-level 
church leaders having the most authority. 
The tone of the government would be based 
primarily on the alignment of the clergy and 
the deity they worship. The leaders in this 
form of government most definitely would 
be wise (since all powerful clerics have high 
Wisdom scores), and if they are good- 
aligned likely would have the population's 
interests at heart. However, this form of 
government is not without its potential 
problems, since there would be no separa 
tion between church and state. The church 
is the state. 

Example: The temple of Poseidon is the 
dominant religion in a small town and has 
charged itself with governing the residents. 
The highest-level cleric is the town's leader, 
with the other clerics in descending rank 
being lesser officials and advisors. The cler 
ics' values are enforced upon the commu 
nity, and there might be little or no 
tolerance for other religions. 

A player character cleric in the adventur 
ing party might worship another deity and 
could involve the entire party in an attempt 
to get religious freedom in the town. Or the 
player characters might not agree with the 
leader clerics' philosophies, especially if the 
clerics worship an evil deity, and the PCs 
could attempt to change the government or 
become involved in covert activities oppos 
ing the government's edicts. 

Magocracy: Wizards, particularly 
mages, are the leaders in a community with 
this form of government. The mages, who 
vested themselves with political power 
believing that their great intelligence makes 
them fit rulers, establish rules and regula 
tions and enforce them -if need be, 
through the use of spells. 

Example: The three highest-level mages in 
a city decide all of the city's policies and use 
their spells and magic items to keep tire pop 
ulation in line. The mages are fair, attempt 
to treat each resident equally, and are usu 
ally open to new ideas. The city is well 
defended, with flying patrols and magical 


traps, and the citizens seem content. 

Player characters might enjoy a good rela 
tionship with this government and might be 
among the appointed officials. Or the PCs 
could be the rulers' "champions," perform 
ing missions on behalf of the government. 

Militocracy: The leaders of the commu 
nity's military forces are in charge, and the 
residents are governed by the military. 
There are likely many laws, and they are 
rigidly enforced. In a city with such a gov 
ernment, residents could be required to 
serve for a period of time in the military. 
This form of government could be a varia 
tion of a dictatorship, if there is one 
supreme military leader, or an oligarchy 
(see below), if ultimate power is shared by 
more than one high-ranking soldier. 

Example: The general of a small city's mili 
tia has assumed control of the government 
and is bossing the residents around just like 
they were his troops. He has imposed a 
mandatory draft and continues to develop a 
code of laws. Despite the unrest among the 
people, the city prospers. Its trade, upon 
which numerous regulations have been 
imposed, flourishes, and the people are 
enjoying their newfound wealth. 

In an adventure involving a militocracy, 
the player characters could be sought out 
by a faction of the populace which cannot 
tolerate the military regime. They are asked 
to take steps to reduce the laws and 
regulations-without destroying the gov 
ernment, because the people are pleased 
with their economic state. 

Monarchy: In this government, one per 
son (the equivalent of a king, queen, sultan, 
emperor, etc.) has the hereditary right to 
rule. On occasion, a monarch will wield his 
power based on a claim of divinity, saying 
that he was chosen by or descended from 
the gods. Rule is sometimes passed on to the 
eldest male or eldest female child. A mon 
arch will rule based on his or her alignment 
and the motives the DM has established for 
the character. In some cases a monarch is 
dependent on the nobility for support and 
allegiance. And in other cases a monarch 
could be simply a figurehead, with another 
form of government coexisting and having 
the real power. 

Example: A city is ruled by a king whose 
family has been in power since the city was 
formed. The king has appointed several 
people to enforce his laws and favors the 
nobility and the wealthy. The peasants and 


commoners are taxed heavily and not 
allowed to rise above their stations. 

In such a city, player characters could 
become champions of the commoners, 
thwarting the king's plans to tax the people 
and becoming an irritating burr in the mon- 
archs side. 

Oligarchy: In this form of government, 
power rests with a few individuals, perhaps 
but not necessarily members of the same 
family. A government such as this is some 
times characterized as selfish, with the 
rulers' interests and desires coming before 
the welfare of the people they are govern 
ing. Such a government could come about 
because a previous government was over 
thrown or because a childless monarch 
died, leaving power in the hands of a small 
group of distant relatives. 

Example: Twin brothers, descendants of a 
king, come into power. They share ruler- 
ship of a city, although each would like to be 
the sole ruler. They are selfish and greedy, 
taxing the people and lining their own cof 
fers with the wealth while public needs are 
not attended to. 

This is another situation where PCs could 
be champions of the people. 

Patriarchy: This is similar to a gerontoc 
racy, but the rulers are men only. The 
atmosphere in communities with this form 
of government is again dependent on the 
personalities the DM has assigned to the 
rulers. When the leader dies, rule could be 
passed down to the next oldest man. 

Example: The eldest man in a large town 
is the head of the government, and he 
appoints lesser officials to carry out his poli 
cies. However, this leader, once a kind and 
just man, has become senile and is creating 
laws on whims and punishing people for lit 
tle reason. 

The player characters in such a situation 
might be approached by the town's lesser 
officials and asked to find a cure for the 
leader's senility, or they may be asked to 
help overthrow him. 

Pedocracy: Well-educated persons and 
scholars are in charge under this system, 
and they establish laws which they believe 
are in the best interest of those they govern. 
A pedocracy might be headed by one per 
son, or by a group of people who share 
authority and responsibility. In a fantasy 
setting, these rulers would likely be either 
wizards (mages or illusionists), because of 





WHAT KIND OF GOVERNMENT? 

their typically high intelligence, or priests 
(clerics or druids), who generally have great 
wisdom - or perhaps a consortium of both 
types of characters. It is also possible for a 
member of some other class to be the leader 
of a pedocracy, particularly if the character 
has high charisma to go along with his high 
intelligence or wisdom. 

Example: A small city is governed by a 
group of scholars, whose seat of govern 
ment is a vast library. The scholars govern 
wisely and well, studying the community 
and instituting policies that improve the 
people's welfare. They assign residents to 
positions and tasks based on the residents' 
abilities. And the rulers are always search 
ing for ways to improve the city. 

Player characters could be under the 
employ of the leaders, who frequently send 
them on adventures to get information 
about the surrounding lands. 

Plutocracy: The wealthy are the rulers 
in this form of government. Their power is 
derived from their wealth and holdings, 
and all the other residents of such a commu 
nity are subject to their decrees. This gov 
ernment could also fall into other 
categories; it could he an oligarchy in which 
a few very wealthy individuals have 
supreme control. Or the leadership could 
be in the form of a council of the wealthiest 
individuals in the community, who have 
charged themselves with the responsibility 
of running the government. A plutocracy 
can come into being through several ave 
nues; the wealthy people in a particular 
community could have always enjoyed a sig 
nificant amount of power, and when a lead 
er died they assumed his role. Or perhaps a 
few wealthy individuals established the 
community, and because of that precedent 
the wealthy have always held power. 

Example: A seacoast town is governed by 
its four wealthiest landowners. Each land- 
owner is in charge of a quarter of the town, 
and together they decide policies and pro 
grams for the entire town. However, there 
is disparity between the sections of town. 
One landowner favors the rich and lavishes 
his share of the tax money on them; another 
landowner favors the merchants and 
devotes his energies to bettering commerce 
in his quarter; fhe remaining two land- 
owners are more fair, spreading out the tax 
money throughout their quarters so that all 
the people benefit. 

Player characters residing in or visiting 
one of these quarters could be made quickly 


aware of the differences and could be 
encouraged to do something to make living 
conditions more equitable. Or player char 
acters visiting any city governed by a plu 
tocracy could become the champions of the 
commoners, who want more of a voice in 
the operation of the city. 

Republic: This is similar to a democracy, 
because it is a representative form of gov 
ernment. However, there can be differ 
ences. The representatives in a republic are 
elected by people entitled to vote. And those 
voters might only include men, the rich, or 
the learned. Commoners or women might 
be excluded. So while ultimately power 
rests in the hands of the citizens, it might 
not rest with all the citizens. The represent 
atives might rule as a group, or there might 
be an overall leader elected from among 
those in the group. 

Example: A town is governed by repre 
sentatives elected by the male residents. For 
the most part, these representatives make 
decisions based on the wishes of those who 
elected them, although they sometimes cre 
ate policies which tbey believe will better 
the community, even though the voters 
(adult males) might disapprove. 

Player characters in this environment 
might be among those electing the repre 
sentatives, although female player charac 
ters could be upset by this system. The PCs 
could also work to change the republic into 
a democracy, in which everyone has a say in 
choosing the representatives. In a non-evil 
republic government, the PCs could be 
charged with helping to keep the govern 
ment in place by putting down attempts to 
overthrow it. 

Syndicracy: This is government by a 
group of merchants and tradesmen. Each 
member, who might also be a guild leader, 
could represent an interest. For example, a 
syndicracy composed of six members could 
have one person representing the banking 
industry; one for the farm industry; one for 
manufacturers of clothing and other dry 
goods; one for service industries such as 
inns and taverns; one representing the gen 
eral labor force; and one protecting the 
interests of potterymakers, silversmiths, 
and goldsmiths. 

Or the syndics might not be specialists; 
instead, they might be the members of a 
council that concerns itself with making the 
best decisions for all the various members 
of the economic community. The tone of the 


government will be derived from the align 
ments and personalities of the syndics, but 
in any case the thrust of the government's 
operation will be toward the betterment of 
commerce and economic standing. 

Example; A syndicracy operating in a mid 
sized city has implemented programs which 
have resulted in a booming trade business. 
Merchants and farmers are prospering; 
however, common laborers have not 
received a raise in pay or any other benefit. 
The laborers are disgruntled, but feel that 
they have no recourse because no one in the 
government is looking out for them in par 
ticular, and they can't afford to pull up 
stakes and relocate. 

Player characters visiting or operating 
out of such a city could be asked to help a 
faction within the city, such as the laborers, 
get more power. 

Theocracy: This is a form of govern 
ment derived, or supposedly derived, from 
a deity. The ruler could be a person claiming 
to be the direct descendant of a god or the 
representative of a god, and he could claim 
to govern based on the deity's wishes. The 
ruler or rulers would not have to be priests 
(clerics or druids). The tone of this govern 
ment will be based on the personality and 
alignment of the ruler or rulers, and the dei 
ty worshiped. If the deity is evil, the ruler 
could have an oppressive reign marked by 
acts of terror and violence. However, if the 
deity is good, the ruler could be under 
standing and beneficent, and the people 
could prosper. In some theocracies the ruler 
might not actually have any ties to the deity, 
claiming a relationship only so he could 
come into political power. There are several 
ways for a theocracy to be established in a 
community; for example, if the majority of 
people in a community worship the same 
deity, this could set the stage for a person 
who claims to be descended from the deity 
to step into control. 

Example: A female dwarven follower of 
Moradin claims the god speaks to her and 
gives her direction on how to help the resi 
dents of the dwarvish town. Her power in 
the community grows until she is named 
the town leader. 

If any dwarven player characters are 
involved with the adventuring party in this 
town, they could be sent on a mission for 
Moradin on behalf of the town's leader. 


10 






Mbrjfog GoveKMcnexfts 

You might want to have more than one 
form of government present in some of 
your cities. For example, a monarchy could 
be the major form of government, with a 
king being the overall ruler of a city. How 
ever, underneath the king are a few high- 
powered administrators who operate like 
an oligarchy, and beneath them a council of 
syndics. This form of government is also a 
hierarchy, with the council reporting to the 
administrators, who in turn report to the 
king. It is likely that only a large city would 
have a government as complex as this. 

To randomly determine the form of gov 
ernment for a city you have placed, use the 
following chart-but reroll if the result is 
impossible or impractical (for instance, a 
magocracy in a hamlet that has no wizards, 
or a gerontocracy in a village formed just a 
few years earlier by a group of young and 
middle-aged settlers). 

d20 roll Government 

1 Anarchy 

2 Autocracy 

3 Bureaucracy 

4 Collegium 

5 Democracy 

6 Dictatorship 

7 Feodality 

8 Gerontocracy 

9 Gy narchy/Matriarchy 

10 Hierarchy 

11 Magocracy 

12 Militocracy 

13 Monarchy 

14 Oligarchy 

15 Patriarchy 

16 Pedocracy 

17 Plutocracy 

18 Republic 

19 Syndicracy 

20 Theocracy 

GoveRKJmewT 

AcTiobJ 

To give you more ideas of how a commu 
nity's government can be a source of adven 
tures, here are a few situations that could 
occur under a number of different forms of 
government. In each case, player charac 
ters who visit or live in the community will 
be affected by -and perhaps themselves 
have an impact on -what happens as a 
result of these policies. 


1. Officials want to expand the boundaries 
of the city and bring more people under the 
jurisdiction of the government. They hope 
this will make the city a more powerful force 
on the continent. A good-aligned or neutral- 
aligned ruler or rulers might accomplish this 
by meeting with the people outside the city's 
current boundaries and attempting to con 
vince them that their way of life would be bet 
ter if they were under the protection of the 
city and could enjoy the benefits the city gov 
ernment offers. In this situation, player char 
acters could be among the delegation 
attempting to convince the outside people. An 
evil-aligned ruler could attempt to take the 
lands by force. In this case, the PCs might get 
involved in helping to keep the outer lands 
free. 

2. The government wants to improve the 
physical appearance of the city and has 
implemented extensive public-improve 
ment programs which will create schools 
and parks and will upgrade public buildings 
and storefronts. Goals such as this could fit 
with rulers of any alignment, and could 
have a significant impact on the population, 
which might be heavily taxed so the 
improvements can be made. Player charac 
ters in this situation could help find ways to 
accomplish the goal without forcing the citi 
zens to suffer a crippling tax burden. 

3. A ruler is determined to build up the 
military might of the city and improve the 
city's defenses. His plan calls for a draft to 
be implemented, forcing all healthy young 
men in the city to serve a stint in the militia. 
In addition, many citizens are put to work 
building a wall around the town. This plan 
can also fit with rulers of any alignment. 
Player characters involved with this city 
could be faced with conscription into mili 
tary service, or being ordered to join the 
work force to build the walls. 


Boliver coughed in surprise and spat out 
a mouthful of soup as the elf left the inn. 
"Wonderful. We're not in this city more 
than an hour, and already we've insulted 
the city officials. Wonderful." 

Athormis smiled. "You -not we - 
insulted a city official. Besides, he didn't 
seem upset. He seems a likeable sort, and 
pretty sure of himself. I didn't see any 
bodyguards nearby, and he wasn't wear 
ing any armor. Maybe the people are 
happy with him, and he's not afraid of 


walking among them. And he said he is 
one of the city leaders, so be thankful we 
aren't in a city with some form of monar 
chy or dictatorship. This city looks in 
good shape, from what we've seen of it 
so far. That probably means the govern 
ment is progressive. At the very least, 
the city streets look in good repair. 
Boliver, the leaders here are probably 
better at running this city than our cook 
is at running his inn. I ordered roast 
duck. This is beef stew. And where are 
my boiled potatoes?" 


GoveRwmewTai 

ReLaDows 

As you continue to develop your cities and 
those cities' governments, you must decide 
how the governments relate to each other. 
For example, if the governments of two sea- 
coast cities that are within 20 miles of each 
other do not get along, the cities' officials 
might plant spies in each other's court 
houses, take drastic measures to compete 
for harbor trade, or in an extreme case 
threaten war. On the other hand, if those 
two cities are on friendly terms, they could 
develop cooperative trade programs and 
have an agreement to combine militias if 
either city comes under attack. 

The following table can help you deter 
mine relationships between cifies. For ran 
dom determination, roll dlOO and assign the 
result to the two cities in question. In most 
cases, you should simply select one of the 
six possibilities that seems reasonable and 
likely in light of the cities' other aspects. 
Remember at all times that any facts about 
the cities in your campaign must have rea 
sons to back them up, whether those facts 
were determined by a die roll or by a judg 
ment you made. 

01-45 Governments are cooperative and 
enjoy good, friendly relations. 

46-65 Governments accept each other 
and under certain circumstances 
would aid each other. 

66-76 Governments accept each other, 
but are neither friendly nor hos 
tile to each other. 

77-87 Governments ignore each other. 

88-95 Governments are antagonistic. 

96-00 Governments are hostile, and with 
some provocation could go to war. 


11 




PUTTING LIFE INTO LEADERS 


To make a city and its government be 
vibrant, realistic, and truly interesting, you 
must create personalities and goals for the 
city leaders and establish the leaders' align 
ments. The goals of a city's government fre 
quently mirror the personal goals of the 
highest officials. If a city's government has 
no goals, the city will stagnate. And if the 
city officials lack depth, the government's 
goals will he shallow or nonexistent. 

It is essential to put some thought into the 
makeup of a city's rulers, and to have the 
rulers' characteristics developed before the 
PCs come to a city and want to know about 
what they're getting into. You don't have to 
tell players everything at once, of course, 
but you should have all the facts worked out 
so that what you do reveal to them is con 
sistent with other facts they may have 
learned or heard about. In a wilderness 
adventure or a dungeon expedition, you 
may be able to get away with making up 
some things as you go along. In a city adven 
ture, it's much more difficult to "wing it" on 
a large scale, because you're dealing with an 
environment that is much more complex 
than an expanse of wilderness or a collec 
tion of rooms in a dungeon. 

You may want to draw your officials' per 
sonalities from personages you have come 
to know through novels, movies, or history 
books. The rulers of Europe in the Middle 
Ages are rich with character, motivations, 
and foibles. You might be more familiar 
with leaders from the modem era-and you 
don't have to limit yourself to people who 
actually are or were leaders in government 
and politics. (Imagine how interesting it 
mighf be for PCs to enter a city governed by 
someone modeled after A1 Capone or -at 
the other extreme - someone like Gandhi.) 

Another source for creating full-bodied 
rulers is the NPC generation system in the 
AD&D(r) game Dungeon Masters Guide. In 
lieu of those tables, the following lists of 
traits can be used as a starting point to help 
you flesh out your city officials or to help 
create city officials quickly. Please note that 
the characteristics listed on the tables are 
only a few of the traits a leader might pos 
sess; many, many more are possible. 


dlOO roll 

Alignment of ruler(s) 

01-15 

Lawful good 

16-30 

Neutral good 

31-40 

Chaotic good 

41-70 

Neutral 

71-75 

Chaotic neutral 

76-85 

Lawful neutral 


86-92 Lawful evil 

93-97 Neutral evil 

98-00 Chaotic evil 

If an official's alignment is lawful good, 
neutral good, or chaotic good, roll on the 
following table (use d3 and dlO) to help 
determine the officials personality traits. 
Roll three to five times for each official, dis 
carding or rerolling traits which are not 
compatible. 


1 Trustworthy 

16 Cowardly 

2 Considerate 

17 Truthful 

3 Understanding 

18 Progressive 

4 Domineering 

19 Boastful 

5 Generous 

20 Open-minded 

6 Scholarly 

21 Optimistic 

7 Proud 

22 Even-tempered 

8 Intelligent 

23 Lazy 

9 Energetic 

24 Selfish/greedy 

10 Honorable 

25 Brave 

11 Moody 

26 Covetous 

12 Temperamental 

27 Shy 

13 Virtuous 

28 Bold 

14 Foolhardy 

29 Loud 

15 Aggressive 

30 Passionate 


Rulers who are chaotic neutral, neutral, 
or lawful neutral could have traits from the 
following table. Reroll or ignore traits 
which are in conflict. 


1 Moody 

16 Curious 

2 Fearless 

17 Cowardly 

3 Intelligent 

18 Gracious 

4 Selfish/greedy 

19 Haughty 

5 Considerate 

20 Warlike 

6 Hot-tempered 

21 Easygoing 

7 Indecisive 

22 Power-hungry 

8 Diplomatic 

23 Rude 

9 Well-spoken 

24 Driven 

10 Careless 

25 Soft-hearted 

11 Kind 

26 Foolhardy 

12 Covetous 

27 Brave 

13 Unpredictable 

28 Talkative 

14 Compassionate 

29 Humorous 

15 Aggressive 

30 Flamboyant 


Officials who are lawful evil, neutral evil, 
or chaotic evil could have three to five traits 
from the following table. Again, reroll or 
ignore traits which conflict. 

1 Malevolent 16 Brave 

2 Greedy 17 Cowardly 

3 Diplomatic 18 Scheming 

4 Well-educated 19 Dishonest 

5 Immoral 20 Egotistical 

6 Vengeful 21 Jealous 


7 Warlike 22 Power-hungry 

8 Progressive 23 Cautious 

9 Driven 24 Covetous 

10 Lazy 25 Insensitive 

11 Unpredictable 26 Maniacal 

12 Flamboyant 27 Devious 

13 Bold 28 Domineering 

14 Secretive 29 Harsh 

15 Deceptive 30 Cruel 

AddlNg a Tme 

Each city official should have a title or 
two. A title will set the NPC leader above the 
rest of the populace and will help identify 
the NPC's role to player characters visiting 
the city. There are a great many titles to 
choose from, and you can probably think of 
at least a couple of dozen right away. A the 
saurus is a good place to look for a long list 
of titles that people have given to their 
rulers. When assigning a title to a ruler, be 
sure it is consistent with the type of govern 
ment and the personality or background of 
the ruler(s). For instance, it's improbable 
that the leaders of an oligarchy would all 
have the title of King, and the head official 
in a modest farming community would 
probably not be called Pharaoh. 

Ad&nog Depth 

To more fully flesh out city officials, con 
sider creating strengths, weaknesses, and a 
colorful background. 

Strengths: Every official, in fact every 
character, has strengths integral to his or 
her being. A compassionate king's greatest 
strength might be his popularity. With the 
people behind him, peasants and nobles 
alike, he will have a strong reign, and those 
who oppose him will be easily defeated. The 
leader in a militocracy might have a brilliant 
military mind as his greatest strength. Per 
haps this leader could unerringly lead 
troops against a neighboring city threaten 
ing war. Perhaps the strength of a leader in 
a democracy is his wisdom and an uncanny 
ability to make the correct judgment in 
establishing public policy. The strengths of 
a ruler are in many respects the strengths 
of a city, and should be fairly apparent to 
PCs who live in or visit the city. 

Weaknesses: Every ruler should have at 
least one major weakness, which can add 
interest to city campaigns and could play a 
significant part in adventures where PCs 
come into conflict with the ruler or must aid 
him. Such a weakness could be a phobia. 


12 




many of which are listed in the Dungeon 
Masters Guide. A ruler's weaknesses do not 
have to be as obvious as his strengths and 
could present a challenge for the PCs to dis 
cover. For example, perhaps a king refuses 
to consider new ideas because he fears the 
unknown. Because of this weakness, the 
city is not progressing, staying rooted in its 
age-old ways of operating. For the city to 
move forward, the ruler's weakness must 
be identified and overcome. Perhaps the 
weakness of an evil, tyrannical queen is her 
overconfidence. Discovering this could be 
the key to defeating her and freeing her 
subjects. 

Influences: Does anything influence the 
ruler? Is he motivated to gain more wealth? 
Is he influenced by the opinions and advice 
of the wealthy in the city, ignoring the com 
moners' wishes? Is he influenced by the 
stars, putting his faith in astrology and 
seers? Perhaps the mler has an attachment 
to mysticism, seeing events as omens which 
affect his plans for the city. Or maybe the 
ruler is wishy-washy, allowing himself to be 
influenced by many different forces at dif 
ferent times, which causes him to frequent 
ly change city policies. 

Background: How did the ruler come 
into power? Was he elected? Did he over 
throw the previous government, which 
causes him to be fearful of the same thing 
happening to him? Is he the last in a line of 
monarchs descended from the founder of 
the city? 

Keeping the Power: How does the 
city's ruler retain his power? Is he popular 
enough with the people, or does he have a 
fair enough government that there is no 
serious threat to depose him? If he is a 
tyrant, does he have magical protection or 
an elite force of bodyguards to keep him on 
the throne? Is the ruler well defended or 
protected with wards and other magical 
devices? 

A Ruler with Class: Perhaps the city's 
top official or officials are former adventur 
ers. Making a ruler a member of a character 
class is not necessary, but doing so will give 
an official more hit points, a better armor 
class - especially if he has magic armor or 
protection devises from his adventuring 
days -and an edge in defending himself. In 
addition, it gives the official something in 
common with the player characters. 

Abilities: You should determine what 
languages the ruler speaks and writes and 
what proficiencies the ruler has. 


Underlings: The larger the town or city, 
the more officials the government will have. 
Because of that, you must determine how 
many underlings, or lesser officials, a ruler 
has. The number also should be dependent 
on the makeup of the ruler. An overconfi 
dent ruler who doesn't want to share power 
will have fewer officials under him than a 
ruler who recognizes the need for more 
administrators. 

Favoritism: It is possible that a ruler 
might favor a segment of the population 
and create laws to benefit them. For exam 
ple, a ruler who is partial to the wealthy 
could tax them less. Or a ruler who favors 
adventurers could look the other way if 
adventurers break a few laws. 

Housing: You will have to determine if 
the ruler lives within the city walls or in an 
estate outside the city. Does he live in a cas 
tle, manor house, expensive apartment, for 
tified home? If applicable, you should 
decide how the manor or estate is protect 
ed. Planning this in advance will make it eas 
ier to deal with PCs who want to confront 
the mler. It is a good idea to set aside a few 
of the building fold-ups which you can com 
bine to create a ruler's estate. Determining 
which street layouts are around the estate 
will help you determine what kind of secu 
rity the leader's office or residence has. Is it 
surrounded by other buildings (which 
would make a sneak attack easier to pull 
off), or does it stand alone on a hilltop (so 
that no one can approach unseen)? 

Protection: You also must decide if the 
mler has bodyguards, and if so how many 
and of what level. In addition, you should 
take into consideration magic protection. 
Even if the ruler is not of an adventuring 
class, he could still have magic items or pro 
tective devices to help keep him from harm. 

Ties to the Military: Another consider 
ation is the ruler's link to the military In a 
militocracy, the city's leader is also the lead 
er of the military. In other forms of govern 
ment there may be other officials in charge 
of the military or city guards, and there may 
be several steps or layers of authority 
between the ruler and the military. 

Popularity: One of the most important 
aspects of a mler is how the populace views 
him. Is he a popular ruler? Is the populace 
split with a few classes favoring him and a 
few hoping for a new leader? Or do most of 
the people hope for a new leader? 


"It's not bad stew," Athormis said, run 
ning a piece of bread around the bottom 
of the bowl to get the last bit. "But let's go 
someplace for dinner that serves duck. 
Boliver, your turn to pick up the bill." The 
dwarf threw a gold piece on the table, 
which was more than enough to pay for 
several meals at the inn, and the pair 
walked out to continue their exploration 
of Sauter. 

"You know, Boliver," Athormis contin 
ued, "1 really wish we would have 
known that White William was with the 
government. We could have asked him 
to eat with us. 1 wager we could have 
found out all manner of information 
about this city and the people who run it, 
their strengths and weaknesses, their 
plans. It would have been a fascinating 
conversation. Maybe we'll run into him 
again." 

"Don't wager on it," Boliver said, drag 
ging the mage toward a weaponsmith. 
"City's too big. And besides, he's an elf. 
I've never been overly fond of elves." 


Aw ELecnewT of the 

FamTasT)c 

Although the majority of officials in your 
campaign should be human, half-elf, elf, or 
a member of one of the other humanoid 
races, a few officials could have a fantastic 
nature. Perhaps a silver dragon poly- 
morphed into human form is the leader of a 
mountain town. Maybe a doppleganger has 
taken the place of a small-town mayor and 
has been running the town for the past few 
years. Or perhaps a lich or other evil crea 
ture is the ruler of a sprawling city and has 
an army of goblins and other creatures at 
his command. Whatever or whoever you 
decide to establish as a "fantastic" ruler 
should be unique and well crafted. And 
above all else, there should be few of these 
unique rulers. If monster-leaders are com 
monplace, there will be nothing fantastic 
about them. 


13 





CHARTING THE GOVERNMENT 


Example.* OUgaRcbv 


Prince 


Commander of the Military 



Captain of Captain of 

Sea Patrol Land Patrol 


Captain of Captain of 

Shore Patrol City Watch 


Prince 


Regents 



Chief Advisory Courts 

Councilors Councils 1 



Merchants Adventurers Craftsmens 

Guild Guild Guild 



Fighters Wizards 

Guild Guild 


One of the easiest ways to visualize the 
chain of command for any form of govern 
ment you assign to a town or city is to create 
a tree of power, or an outline, as shown on 
this page, detailing which officials have the 
most power and showing whom they report 
to. 

Creating such an outline for each major 
city and town that PCs frequently visit will 
help you keep the forms of government 
straight between your many communities. 
Each chart could also hear the names of the 
important NPCs you have assigned to vari 
ous positions. In addition, if you Choose to 
make information from the charts available 
to the players interested in your cities' gov 
ernments, they will be able to easily tell 
which PCs their characters need to seek out 
when dealing with various aspects of the 
government. This also will help them keep 
the officials' names straight, especially if 


their characters frequently visit several 
towns and cities. 

Not all outlines will have the same struc 
ture. A democracy will have a different out 
line from a monarchy, which will have a 
different outline from an oligarchy, which 
will have a different outline from a milito- 
cracy, and so forth. You likely will have to 
develop a different basic chart for each type 
of government you use. 

The example here shows the possible out 
line for an oligarchy ruled by two brothers. 
The princes share power equally, and they 
are over everyone else in the government 
and in the city. Immediately beneath them 
are the commander of the city's military 
forces and the regents, the latter of whom 
oversee the chief counselors, the courts, 
and the advisory councils. Beneath the 
councils are the city guild council and har 
bor master. Beneath the chief counselors 


are the ambassadors and tax collectors. And 
beneath the courts are the jails and public 
shelters. In addition, the major guilds are 
beneath the guild council. There are other 
guilds which report to the major guilds, but 
they are not listed. 

You could choose to go beyond a basic 
chart such as this, creating additional charts 
for the military, merchants, courts, ship 
yards, and other areas within a city. In addi 
tion, you could create two charts for a city's 
government. The first chart would show 
the governmental structure as the public 
perceives it, complete with the names of 
officials. This chart would be available to 
the players. A second chart, which only you 
or your players whose characters are with 
in the government would see, would detail 
the acfual power structure and would 
reveal the real authority in the city, such as 
the power behind a puppet monarch. 


14 


THE CITY'S DEFENSES 


Boliver stuck his new silvered throwing 
hammer in his backpack and waited for 
Athormis to buy a dagger. The mage was 
particular about his weapons, even 
though the dwarf considered a dagger 
scant defense. Athormis turned the dag 
ger over and over in his long fingers 
before sheathing it at his waist. "All 
right. I'm ready," the mage said. 

They walked out onto the city streets, 
where Boliver bumped into a uniformed 
guard. "Excuse me," the dwarf said, his 
face turning scarlet. "I wasn't watching 
where I was going, sir." The guard simply 
nodded and walked away to join another 
guard on patrol in the merchants dis 
trict. 

"Whew," Boliver said. "I've been in 
places where guards would accuse you 
of trying to pick their pockets or some 
thing. I wonder if there are a lot of 
guards here?" 

"Oh, I do hope so," Athormis answered. 
"I feel safer in a city with a good, sturdy 
wall and plenty of guards around. 
Remember, we're toting considerable 
wealth around with us, and the presence 
of guards keeps our wealth that much 
safer. Maybe we should find a jeweler 
and exchange some of our gold for a few 
small but fine gems. Gems are easier to 
conceal and aren't as heavy." 

"I hate to agree with you, Athormis, 
but you're right. I guess I do feel better 
with a few guards walking the streets. 
Every place needs some form of defense 
to make the citizens feel secure and to 
prevent the community from being over 
run by invaders, disgruntled citizens, 
and ill-tempered adventurers -our 
selves excluded, of course. A good 
defense prevents rowdy characters 
from walking into a village and doing 
whatever they please. And a defense, 
such as a militia, can also provide a good 
source of employment between adven 
tures. Remember about eight years ago 
when we were in Delmarr and were 
hired on as guard sergeants? Ahhh, 
those were the days. ..." 


The M)UTaky 

The size of a militia will depend on many 
factors, including the size of the population, 
the makeup of the community's leaders, and 
the community's stance with surrounding 


villages, towns, and cities. For example, a 
city that has an uneasy relationship with its 
neighbors probably would have a large mili 
tia or more than one military force. A town 
whose ruler is frightened of potential 
threats from the outside also likely would 
have a comparatively large force. However, 
a town that has good relations with its 
neighbors, has never been invaded, and has 
a confident leader might have just a small 
militia. 

Hamlets and small villages might have no 
protection other than the citizens them 
selves (principally, but perhaps not exclu 
sively, the healthy adult males), who band 
together when a threat is posed. These citi 
zens might also serve as the community's 
watch, taking turns patrolling the area. In 
addition, perhaps there is a community plan 
in which all the men rally to the commu 
nity's defense if an alarm is sounded. How 
ever, it is also possible that a hamlet or small 
village will have a fairly well organized 
defense force, especially if the community 
has enemies. 

Larger villages, towns, and cities should 
have better defenses because more people 
live there, there are more merchants who 
demand protection, and there are public 
buildings which officials will demand be 
defended. One of the major reasons people 
live in communities is for protection. And 
the larger the community, the more defens 
es and the larger the militia it will have. 
However, size of the militia is again depen 
dent on some of the factors mentioned 
above, such as the confidence level of the 
community officials. Villages, towns, and 
cities also could have walls, a moat, magic, 
or perhaps a friendly creature or monster 
to help defend them. 

You must select the added defenses for 
your communities in part based on each 
community's location. For example, a town 
on an arid plain is not likely to be protected 
by a moat (unless there is some fantastic 
reason for the water not evaporating). A 
frigid northern village is not going to be pro 
tected by a friendly monster that is native to 
warm dimes. And player characters are not 
likely to see a village in the swamp sur 
rounded by a thick stone wall - unless the 
ground in that part of the swamp is unusu 
ally solid (thanks to magic?). A little bit of 
common sense will help you develop your 
communities' defenses. 

Following is a table you can consult for 
ideas on how a community might be defend 
ed. It also can be used to randomly generate 


defenses. After the table are explanations of 
the types of defenses and guidelines for the 


size of militias. 


dlOO roll 

Type(s) of Defense 

01-07 

None 

08-34 

S only 

35 

S, M 

36-50 

S, CW 

51 

S, CW, M 

52-59 

S, W 

60 

S, W, M 

61-71 

S, W, CW 

72 

S, W, CW, M 

73-75 

F M only 

76 

FM, M 

77-79 

FM, CW 

80 

FM, CW, M 

81-82 

FM, CW, W 

83 

FM, W, CW, M 

84-85 

AP only 

86 

AP, M 

87-88 

AP, S 

89 

AP, S, M 

90-92 

AP, S, CW 

93 

AP, S, CW, M 

94-96 

AP, C, CW, W 

97 

AP, S, CW, W, M 

98-99 

AP, S, FM, CW, W 

00 

AP, S, FM, CW, W, M 


S = Sentries/Guards/Militia: The most 
common form of defense a community will 
have is men trained to defend the public. 
From a hamlet, where a few residents act as 
sentries and volunteer defenders, to a large 
city with several guard forces, these men will 
be the first to combat whatever problems 
arise. There should be a base of 1 guard per 
150 residents, with a minimum of 3 guards. If 
the community is on peaceful terms with its 
neighbors and has no known enemies, there 
will be 1 guard per 200 residents, with a mini 
mum of 3 guards. If, however, the community 
is on uneasy terms with its neighbors, or has 
unrest within its own boundaries, there will 
be 1 guard per 100 residents, with a minimum 
of 5 guards. 

Communities with less than 5,000 resi 
dents are not likely to have an army (militia), 
unless the community has known enemies 
or feels threatened. In an army, there 
should be a base of 25 soldiers per 1,000 res 
idents. This number will double, triple, or 
quadruple, depending on the severity of the 
threat posed against the community. A 
standing army is responsible for patrolling a 
community's boundaries and the surround 
ing lands. 


15 





You must also consider the makeup of the 
forces. A village could have a guard force 
made up of O-Ievel humans, while a large 
town might have more than one force, each 
of which consists of personnel ranging from 
0-level humans through 5th level fighters, 
with the higher-level NPCs having com 
manding roles. The larger a community is, 
the better chance that it will have relatively 
high-level characters in its militia. 

You should consider specifically creating 
the NPCs who are in leading roles in a city's 
militia or guard force, since it is likely that 
player characters will interact with them. 
Rowdy PCs unwinding in a tavern after a 
long adventure could find themselves up 
against the leader of the guards. Or, PCs 
wanting to find work between adventures 
might have to deal with some of the higher- 
ups in the community's army. 

CW = City Wall: This is one of the best 
defenses a city can create. A tall, sturdy wall 
made of brick, stone, or clay can serve a 
variety of purposes. Sentries standing on 
parapets along the wall can regulate who 
enters and leaves the city; can get a good 
view of the surrounding area and spot 
potential attackers at a distance; and can 
even survey tire city, keeping air eye out for 
lawbreakers, fires, and trouble. In times of 
attack, guards and members of the city's 
militia can stand along the wall, raining 
arrows, spears, and oil on the assailants and 


using the wall for cover. 

How wealthy a community is and what 
kind of labor force it has will help deter 
mine how much the wall encompasses. For 
example, a wealthy community with a large 
work force could have a wall that circles tire 
entire city. Other cities might only have a 
wall around a portion of the city, such as 
where the wealthy) merchants, city offi 
cials, and public buildings are located. A city 
that is small in area is likely to have more of 
its territory protected by walls than a city 
whose territory is sprawling and perhaps 
oddly shaped (it's easier to build straight 
walls than it is to make curved ones, or ones 
with lots of comers). 

W= Water: A moat, especially one that 
is wide and deep and filled with water, will 
serve some of the same functions as a city 
wall. A moat will slow invaders, who must 
deal with the water before they can effec 
tively attack the city. It will help the city reg 
ulate who enters and leaves, since people 
must either cross at designated spots or be 
good swimmers. Sentries stationed around 
the moat could watch the people going in 
and out of the city, being automatically sus 
picious of people choosing to swim rather 
than walk across at designated points. 

In addition, you could choose to populate 
your water-filled moats for an extra defense 
by adding alligators, giant pikes, eels, lam 
preys, gars, quippers, giant crayfish, or 


water snakes. Some moats might be filled 
with substances other than water, such as 
long spikes or viscous oil that can be set on 
fire. Or, a moat could be left empty-just a 
deep, wide ditch that visitors and enemies 
must contend with. 

Another option for defense is to locate a 
town or city on an island in a lake or a river. 
This has the same effect as a water-filled 
moat, in that people must deal with the 
water to get to the city, and it also provides a 
source of fresh water and a foundation for 
some industries, such as fishing. 

FM = Friendly Monster: You should 
restrict the number of communities that 
have friendly monsters or friendly crea 
tures as guards so these cities can retain 
their fantastic nature. However, having a 
few communities that are guarded by such 
creatures will add fun to the campaign and 
could be a source of interaction with the 
player characters. First, there must be a 
reason why the creature is helping to pro 
tect the city. Perhaps the city official is a 
former adventurer who saved the crea 
ture's life, and the monster is expressing its 
gratitude. Maybe the good-aligned creature 
or monster likes humankind and does not 
want any ill to befall this particular commu 
nity. Perhaps there is a joint agreement for 
protection, with the creature helping to 
defend the city in exchange for the city's 
militia agreeing to help defend it and its lair. 


16 







THE CITY'S DEFENSES 


Here are some suggestions for good- 
aligned creatures or monsters that might 
serve as effective defenders for a commu 
nity because of their special abilities: 
dragon (brass, bronze, copper, gold, silver), 
dragonne, genie, giant (cloud or storm), ki- 
rin, lammasu, androsphinx, and treant. 

There are many other monsters you 
could consider, based on the game system 
you are using. Remember, the friendly mon 
ster might not always be obvious. For exam 
ple, a village protected by a few treants 
might not appear to be guarded at all. How 
ever, people posing a threat to the village's 
safety could soon find themselves sur 
rounded and entangled by trees. A city 
could appear to have only a lone sentry on 
the wall. However, an invading force would 
quickly learn the "lone sentry's" breath 
weapon is devastating-an instant after the 
silver dragon reassumes its natural form. 
The polymorph ability doesn't need to be 
innate; in return for some great favor or as 
a way of expressing their gratitude to the 
city for some reason, a friendly monster 
might be willing to subject itself to a spell 
that causes it to appear human. In most 
cases, shapechanging or concealing mon 
ster guards is probably a good idea, because 
cities with monster guards that are obvious 
could soon become the targets of non-good 
people who equate treasure and power 
with killing monsters. 

You should also consider evil creatures 
for guarding cities with evil rulers. Such 
guards could include dragons (especially 
black, green, and red), bugbears, gargoyles, 
evil giants, and assorted undead. Again, 
there are ways to make these monsters, 
which indeed could be friendly to the city's 
rulers, seem something other than what 
they really are. 

Even cities with good-aligned rulers might 
have evil creatures guarding them, if the 
people in power have a way to control those 
creatures. 

M= Magic: Many possibilities exist for 
defending a city with magic. If there are 
mid- to high-level mages, clerics, and illu 
sionists in residence, they can be called into 
action when the city is threatened. Perhaps 
the leaders have such spell casters in their 
employ and will routinely have the clerics 
cast unjvern watch at specified areas out 
side the gates in the evening, or have mages 
wizard lock a few key gates. Magic month 
spells could warn people away after certain 
hours. And high-level illusionists casting 


programmed illusions could scare away 
people after dark. 

Golems created by high-level mages and 
clerics make powerful sentries. An aerial 
servant conjured by a cleric could keep 
many enemies at bay. 

Magic items are also useful in helping to 
protect a city. For example, a ring of djinni 
summoning can bring forth a high-powered 
protector, a bowl of commanding water ele- 
mentals can make a city's moat very deadly, 
and a few ropes of entanglement in the 
hands of sentries can make short work of 
enemies. The possibilities are limited only 
by your imagination. 

However, it is important that you regulate 
the use of magic as a defense. A small village 
isn't likely to have many (if any) high-level 
spellcasters to come to its aid. And magic 
items are not easy to come by; not every 
town surrounded by a moat will have a 
bowl of commanding water elementals. For 
city-design purposes, magic used as a city's 
method of defense should be treated like 
friendly monsters: if it isn't used commonly 
as a defense, it will be considered special 
and more fun for the players when their 
characters encounter a community that 
uses it. 

AP = Air Patrol: Air patrols (sometimes 
a branch of magic defense) can consist of a 
few sentries periodically taking potions of 
flying, flying spellcasters, or guards on 
winged mounts. If a city has several alche 
mists or mages to concoct the mixtures, it 
might be a common procedure to have sen 
tries imbibe potions of flying and scout the 
area. Mages in the city's employ might regu 
larly fly invisibly around certain vulnerable 
locations, hr addition, a few specially train 
ed guards might possess rings of flying 
which aid them in their patrol of the city 
and surrounding lands; Cities with a budget 
to afford expensive magic items might place 
a few guard forces on carpets of flying 
which can be seen flitting about the city's 
neighborhoods or hovering above the city's 
wails. 

Flying mounts can be used more often 
than many magic items and can last longer 
than fly spells. A city with a stable of pegasi, 
hippogriffs, griffons, or giant eagles has a 
formidable air patrol. 

Adding a flying patrol can also improve a 
city's image and make it a place bards sing 
about and storytellers spin yarns about. It 
could be an attractive environment for play 
er characters who enjoy the fantastic ele 


ment the city boasts. 

Combinations: The most natural com 
bination of defenses is a militia and a city 
wall, or a militia, a city wall, and a moat. 
These are things that can be created by nor 
mal people -which make up the bulk of the 
population of any city. Creating other com 
binations, such as those suggested in the 
tables, will also work well to defend a city, 
but the combination should: make sense 
when the size, location, and governmental 
nature of the city are taken into consider 
ation. 

The PCs' Role: To help make player 
characters feel like they belong in the com 
munity, they could be called upon to help 
defend it. Perhaps the PCs are part-time city 
guards or serve in the militia between 
adventures. Taking part in the 011/s defense 
will help the PCs learn more about the city 
and your campaign. In addition, scenarios 
can he built around the problem of defend 
ing the city. If the PCs are mid-level or 
above, the leader of a city or the NPC in 
charge of the city's defense could ask them 
to serve as a special defense force that 
would take on assignments too tough for 
normal militiamen. Serving in the militia 
would also be a source of inner conflict for 
player characters, and could test their align 
ments. For example, there could be a won 
derfully deep dungeon filled with monsters 
and treasure thaf is just waiting to be 
explored. But it is going to have to wait a lit 
tle longer, since PCs must serve another 
month in the militia before they can get 
time off. 


17 





mi 


m 



v-, r< ? 



FABRICATING A HISTORY 


"Boliver, look at that statue. The bronze 
one at the end of the merchants district. 
It intrigues me. Maybe it has something 
to do with the city's history. I'm going to 
find out what it's about." 

"Well, my friend, you go do that. See 
the tavern about a block from that 
enchanting statue of yours? That's 
where I'm going. You spend all the time 
you like studying the statue. I'll study a 
few tankards of ale. Come and get me 
when you're done with your history les 
son.'' 

The mage continued down the street 
to the statue of six figures - a-tall male 
elven ranger, a male half-elven fighter, 
two female human clerics, and two other 
males, one of whom could have been of 
nearly any adventuring class, and the 
other who was obviously a spellcaster. 
The ranger looked vaguely familiar, but 
Athormis couldn't place him. The statue 
was probably a few hundred years old. A 
bronze sign beneath it read: "In memory 
of Sauter's Adventurers and Founders. 
The city lives in their memory." The 
mage reached out and touched the cool 
metal arm of the ranger and then went 
to join his companion in the tavern. 


Establishing a history for a city will help 
you understand the city you are creating 
and will help you add color to it, populate it, 
and create adventures centered on it. 

In the steps you have taken in the creation 
process so far, you have already gone a long 
way toward defining your city's history. Its 
location, its present population, and the 
type of government its people live under 
are facts that all have a great bearing on 
how the city began and how it developed. 
Now it's time to build more facts on top of 
those and give your city a past -make it 
exist in time as well as in space. 

The age of the community is one of the 
most important basic facts you must now 
decide. If a town of humans has existed for 
less than two hundred years, it will proba 
bly have a rich and full history. Several gen 
erations of families will have lived there, 
passing down knowledge from one genera 
tion to the next, so that present-day resi 
dents will know all about the area and how 
the community came into being. 

If the community is older than two hun 
dred years, its history will be that much 
deeper -but there's also the possibility that 


certain facts about its early existence have 
been lost in antiquity. In such a case, PCs 
might be approached by a sage who asks 
them to undertake an expedition to find a 
lost relic that will explain when and how the 
city came into being. 

In contrast, a young community will natu 
rally lack a lengthy history, and its people 
will not be as rooted to the land, still retain 
ing some ties to their native communities. 
Knowing the age of the city you are creating 
will help you determine how lengthy and 
how detailed its history should be. 

Trc.Ac)wg The RooTs 

After you assign an age to a city, you must 
determine what caused it to spring into 
being. Did the largest city on your continent 
start out as a humble fishing village that 
quickly turned into a major port? Maybe the 
city began as a farming community which 
concentrated on raising grains and then 
evolved into a trade center with farming 
now as a minor industry. 

Player characters might be interested in 
who founded the city. A collection of fisher 
men or farmers? A group of adventurous 
pioneers who braved the hardships of the 
land and fought off a band of goblins which 
laired where the city now stands? 

Maybe (as discussed above) the origin and 
age of a city are mysterious. The city resi 
dents and the residents of neighboring com 
munities do not know how long it has been 
there. No one knows how it came into 
being, who founded it, or what caused 
someone to locate a city on that spot. This is 
all well and good -but you still have to 
know these facts, even if the residents 
don't. 

You must also consider the initial mix of 
people who lived in the community as it was 
beginning. For example, a village nestled in 
the woods along the banks of a river origi 
nally could have been the home for a few 
hundred wood elves. However, something 
might have happened early in the village's 
life to cause the wood elves to disappear. 
Perhaps the ancestors of the humans who 
now live in the village drove them off, and 
the wood elves who live nearby resent the 
humans and avoid the village. Or perhaps a 
band of monsters drove the wood elves 
from their home, and the human adventur 
ers who defeated the monsters are credited 
with establishing the village. 

Another example: Perhaps a city started 
out as a human trading settlement, but 


through the years demihumans moved in. It 
might be common to see dwarves, elves, 
gnomes, halflings, and humans walking 
together on the city streets, the tolerance 
for each other's races having grown 
through the years. A history for a commu 
nity will help justify the current makeup of 
the population and the population's view 
toward strangers and members of other 
races. 

You should also consider if the govern 
ment of a city has changed through the dec 
ades. Did a city which began as a humble 
farming village, where everyone had a say 
in the day-to-day operations, retain the 
democratic form of government as it 
evolved and grew? Or is that city now ruled 
by a monarchy, and if so when did the form 
of government change? Charting the course 
of a city's government will help explain 
which groups of people support the current 
government and which groups wish for an 
alternative. 

It does not take long to construct a brief 
history. You might want to consult other 
gaming products which feature cities to get 
ideas on how to create a history. For exam 
ple, The FORGOTTEN REALMS(tm) campaign 
setting contains a history in which major 
events are listed in a timeline. If your cam 
paign world has some sort of calendar (and 
it ought to), you can establish dates when 
certain events occurred in a city's history. 
Alternatively, you can simply count back 
ward from the present time (after deter 
mining when a city came into being) and 
then locate events at various points during 
the time that has elapsed since the settle 
ment was founded. Significant events could 
include invasions, changes in the govern 
ment, dates when famous dignitaries visited 
the city, major expansions, sweeping losses 
in the population because of disease, large 
festivals that drew people from miles away, 
and major disasters such as earthquakes, 
floods, tornadoes, or hurricanes. 

Perhaps patterns exist in the city's history, 
such as a major earthquake hitting the area 
every 50 to 60 years, or the city being invad 
ed by a band of fighters from the north eve 
ry 20 years. Player characters interested in 
a city's history could note these events and 
try to take precautions so history won't 
repeat itself. Maybe the PCs are not able to 
do something about earthquakes or other 
natural occurrences, but they certainly can 
go into the mountains to see if the band of 
fighters is planning another raid. 


18 







MAKEUP Of THE POPULATION 


Inside the tavern were a few dozen 
patrons - half-elves, humans, two half- 
lings, and a gray-bearded dwarf. Athor- 
mis pulled up a chair next to the dwarf 
and waved to the barkeep. "Fruit juice, 
please." 

The dwarf looked embarrassed. 
"Athormis, couldn't you have at least 
ordered wine?" 

"Too early in the day, Boliver. Besides, I 
want to keep my wits sharp. There's so 
much to see in this city. I do believe it 
was founded by a group of adventurers, 
or so says the plaque next to that statue I 
studied. This is a fascinating place. Just 
look at this tavern. There are people of 
several races in here, and they're all get 
ting along." 

"Imagine that," the dwarf said sarcasti 
cally as he upended his mug of ale. "Yes, 
I've noticed it, too. This city, like most of 
the others we've been in, is dominated 
by humans. But this city has a good mix 
of races. I like it here." 


Deciding on the makeup of the population 
is an important step in creating a city 
because it is one of the first aspects of a city 
that player characters will notice. 

There are a few elements that must be 
considered when establishing the popula 
tion: the social classes present in the city, 
the general age of the populace, and the 
mixture of races that populate the city. 

SociaL CLasses 

There are three basic social classes: lower, 
middle, and upper. You might want to con 
sider adding a fourth class, the nobility. 
Another possibility is to further break 
down the classes into divisions, with two 
(lower/upper) or three (lower/middle/ 
upper) subclasses within each major sec 
tion. It is up to you how many classes exist 
in your cities, but it is certain that some kind 
of class structure prevails. Among any 
group of people, there will always be haves 
and have-nots, even if the difference 
between the two groups is relatively small. 
At the very least, in any community with a 
government, there will be leaders and 
nonleaders -and in an anarchy, the richest 
and/or strongest members of the group will 
quickly establish themselves as the upper 
class, even if they aren't actual leaders. It is 
also important that you mix the percentages 


of classes from city to city; for example, 
establishing a higher percentage of lower- 
class residents in one city than in another. 

Upper Class: This can include the city's 
rulers, nobility, wealthy landowners, ship 
ping magnates, and very wealthy mer 
chants. Almost always, the upper class will 
comprise the smallest percentage of the 
population. These are the elite, and if there 
are too many of them, they lose their elite 
status. 

Middle Class: Lesser city officials, lead 
ers of the city's guilds, rich merchants, ship 
captains, successful artisans and craftsmen, 
and well-to-do farmers fall into this cate 
gory. In some cities, the bulk of the popula 
tion is considered middle class. However, in 
other cities the middle class could comprise 
a third or less of the population, with the 
largest percentage of the population falling 
into the lower class. 

Lower Class: This consists of poor 
farmers, sailors, journeymen, tradesmen, 
poor artisans and craftsmen, poor mer 
chants, laborers, and any other persons 
who can't be defined as belonging to a high 
er class. 

Adventurers usually will fit into the mid 
dle class or lower class, depending on their 
economic condition as of their last adven 
ture. Although some adventurers, including 
the player characters, could have enough 
wealth to put them in the upper-class brack 
et, they might not be considered as such. 

The PopuLaDow's Age 

Although most communities have resi 
dents of all ages, some communities have a 
predominant age bracket. If you choose to 
have a few towns or cities with a predomi 
nant age bracket, you should point it out to 
player characters who visit -it is a fact that 
is fairly noticeable. For example, a commu 
nity which has stagnated or is on the 
decline, with few employment possibilities 
for the residents, might have a higher than 
average proportion of elderly people. (The 
young people might have moved to other 
cities to look for work.) Or perhaps you 
could create a town where there is an inor 
dinate number of young people. (A plague 
might have wiped out most of the elderly.) 

Pizebo roiwawT Races 

Some cities in your campaign could be 
melting pots, where people of all races and 
ages come together for mutual protection 


and to earn a living. Such cities likely will be 
along a coast or other major travel route 
where it is easy for people to journey there, 
and they likely will have relatively large 
populations. 

However, many cities with a fantasy or 
medieval flavor will have a predominant 
race or heritage. For example, humans 
could make up the majority of the popula 
tion in many of a DM's cities. This could fur 
ther be broken down into types of humans, 
such as fair-skinned, light-haired humans 
from the north; dark-skinned, dark-haired 
humans from the south; or tall, muscular, 
deep-voiced humans from the west. The 
same can apply to other races. For example, 
one town could be composed predomi 
nantly of wood elves, another high elves, 
and yet another half-elves. 

In addition to the predominant race in a 
city, you must determine additional races 
present, with the overall mix of the popula 
tion making sense. In the AD&D(r) game, 
dwarves and elves do not necessarily get 
along. Therefore, it would not make much 
sense to have a community made up of large 
numbers of dwarves and high elves -unless 
there existed a fantastic reason why the 
races are coexisting. 

A city's population base will also help 
determine how the player characters fit in. 
A city composed solely of humans might be 
suspicious of a group of player character 
adventurers who are dwarves, halflings, 
and gnomes. Or a community of dwarves 
could snub visiting player character elves. 

You also must decide if "monster" races 
such as lizard men and half-ores are 
allowed to walk the street. People live in a 
community in part for protection, so it is 
likely that they will not tolerate monsters 
walking around in their merchant quarters. 
However, you may allow such monster 
races in some of your cities, especially if 
there are valid reasons for their presence. 
For example, a band of neutral lizard men 
live a few miles from a trading community 
and once a month come to town to do busi 
ness. Perhaps a city will allow members of 
such races to visit if they obtain permits or 
licenses or if some residents within the com 
munity will vouch for them. 

The existence of demihumans in the 
AD&D(r) game universe gives you a tremen 
dous opportunity to create a distinctive mix 
of residents for each of the cities you 
design - leading to a different atmosphere 
in every community the PCs visit. 


19 






TAXES-* A WAY OF LIFE 


Few communities can exist without a tax 
structure to pay for public improvements, 
civic programs, the military, and the salaries 
of the leaders. Because of that, you will have 
to establish at least a rudimentary tax sys 
tem for your major cities and the communi 
ties the player characters frequent. 

To make the tax system easy to deal with, 
you could have all communities within a 
country adopt the same basic system. How 
ever, some communities might have taxes 
beyond the basic system, to support a grow 
ing army or the expensive tastes of a mon 
arch. 

Taxes are frequently something that play 
er characters (and some DMs) do not think 
about. But the characters will learn about 
them quickly -and with mixed emotions - 
when taxes become a practice added to the 
campaign. It is possible that taxes will not 
affect player characters who travel from 
town to town, calling no place home. How 
ever, player characters who have a city or a 
town as a base of operations should be 
taxed like any nonadventuring resident. 
And traveling characters who keep some of 
their treasure in local banks or holding 
establishments also will be affected. 

To prevent taxation from becoming a 
game detail that bogs down a campaign 
with unnecessary paperwork, you could 
levy taxes only once or twice a year and 
charge every resident a straight percentage 
of all their earnings and accumulated 
wealth, such as 5% or 10%. Taxing property 
as well as cash will keep player characters 
from spending all their gold pieces on items 
which they hope are not taxable. 

However, you might want to adopt a tax 
system which affects classes of people dif 
ferently. If a city's ruler favors the wealthy, 
the city might only tax members of the 
upper class 5%, and members of the middle 
and lower classes 10%. A city with a demo 
cratic form of government could tax every 
one equally or could tax people according to 
their ability to pay -charging the rich 10% 
or more, the middle class 5%, and the lower 
class even less. 

A city run by syndics could develop a tax 
structure involving the mercantile system. 
Farmers bringing grain to market could be 
charged by the wagonload, shop owners 
could be taxed on the goods in their store 
and on the income they receive, and ped 
dlers could be taxed on the goods they want 
to sell and be charged a fee for a peddler's 
license. Player characters could be affected 
by the taxes, although not directly. Goods 


could cost more in the community because 
of taxes; a sword a player character would 
pay 25 gp for in one town could cost twice 
as much in this community. And player 
characters trying to sell or trade some of 
the treasure they accumulated on their last 
adventure might be faced with merchants' 
taxes or be charged with breaking the law. 

If you choose to have groups of people 
taxed differently in a community, you may 
want to place a stiff tax burden on adven 
turers. Many government officials, especial 
ly those who are former adventurers, 
realize that adventurers are frequently 
laden with gems, gold, and magic items that 
they have picked up in a nearby dungeon. 
These officials could see adventurers, 
including the player characters, as targets 
for special taxes -based on, of course, the 
fact that adventurers are more wealthy 
than the majority of the town's citizens. In 
such an instance, the government might 
choose to charge recognized adventurers a 
tax of 20% or more. This will certainly get 
the player characters to notice the tax sys 
tem and other aspects of your cities. To take 
the tax system one step further, you could 
opt to tax magic items-with everyone pay 
ing a specified fee for each magic item they 
possess. However, you must be careful that 
you do not tax the city residents or the play 
er characters too heavily, or your city will 
be faced with the threat of revolution or 
never will be visited by the player charac 
ters again. 

To back up a tax system, each city must 
have laws to punish the offenders and ways 
to enforce the tax system and the laws. For 
example, a city run by a council of priests 
should have little trouble assigning clerics 
to go to the homes of people suspected of 
tax fraud and question them about their 
wealth and belongings (obtaining truthful 
information through detect lie spells and 
other magics). Or, a city which has a tax on 
magic items should have a means to ascer 
tain who has magic and how much of it is 
possessed. A staff of low-level mages and 
clerics or a few officials with wands of mag 
ic detection should be able to find out 
where the magic is. 

Tax rates also could be affected by events 
taking place in a community. If a war is 
brewing and a town needs to raise money 
for arms, and to feed and clothe its soldiers, 
taxes could go up. Or if the city rulers want 
to build more public buildings, a special tax 
could be created for that purpose. 

How elaborate a tax system becomes will 


depend on how much time you want to put 
in on it. You must be careful to not let a tax 
system take a commanding position within 
your city and mirror the real world too 
much, however, because players could soon 
become bored and decide to stay in the wil 
derness. 

To add some variety without making 
things much more complex, think about 
unusual taxes or fees that a particular city 
might assess. A town might prohibit the 
wearing of weapons by civilians -unless the 
person is willing to pay a fee for the right to 
keep his sword strapped to his side. 
Another city has tax collectors stationed at 
all of the major street intersections, where 
they collect a small amount of money from 
everyone who wants to walk or ride down 
that street (the world's first tollway sys 
tem?). 

Taxes can also serve as an avenue for 
adventure. An oppressive city ruler can 
become obsessed with taxes -layering one 
tax on top of another until the city's poorer 
residents seek the player characters' help. A 
revolution could be in order. Or a city's tax 
money could be stolen by outside forces. If 
the player characters are not able to recov 
er the money, another tax will have to be 
assessed to pay for the upkeep of the city's 
army. From a different angle, a town's new 
ruler, who campaigned to abolish taxes, did 
just that when he was elected to office. 
Although the populace initially liked the 
idea (and many within the city walls still do), 
the situation will cause havoc. Public 
improvements will fall by the wayside. And 
it is a mystery how the city officials will be 
paid. It could be up to the player characters 
to straighten out the mess and get the gov 
ernment and the tax system back on the 
right path. You can also set up the city's 
chief tax collector as a nemesis for the PCs, 
creating adventures around the collector's 
attempts to tax them. 


20 





A CITY'S BUILDING BLOCKS 


To add more depth and realism to fantasy 
cities, you can detail the materials the city 
buildings are made of and describe the 
appearance of the structures to your play 
ers. The city will seem more alive if every 
one knows what it looks like. 

Many players like to hear descriptive pas 
sages about the dungeon rooms their char 
acters enter or wilderness settings their 
characters chance upon. Roaming about a 
city should be no different. If you have tak 
en time to establish what the city's buildings 
look like and what they are made of, you 
can regale your players with descriptions of 
the merchants' quarters where buildings 
are packed close together, the docks where 
workers hurry between ships, and the resi 
dential and government sections bustling 
with pedestrians. You can lavishly describe 
the differences between the spacious 
manors where the wealthy live and the dis 
mal hovels occupied by the poor. And the 
player characters might be tempted to stay 
in the city longer because they can "see" it. 
Use of the building fold-ups and street lay 
outs that come with this product will be a 
big help in getting players to visualize sec 
tions of a city. 

The Rauj MaTeRUL 

Wood, straw, brick, fieldstone, clay, and 
hard-packed earth are some of the materi 
als people in a medieval period would have 
to work with in creating buildings. The 
materials could be held together with mor 
tar, dung, nails, and twine and fashioned 
into homes, businesses, and public build 
ings. The more money people in a commu 
nity have to work with, the better the 
materials they can afford, such as brick and 
fieldstone. You may have other materials in 
your campaign which can be used to build 
structures: special hardwood from exotic 
trees, a unique sort of thatch material that 
repels water, fantastic "airstones" that are 
very light but also very strong. 

If you take some time to describe the vari 
ous building materials that are used by resi 
dents and which ones are superior to 
others, player characters soon will be able 
to tell who in a community has money, 
based on the materials their homes are 
made of. The building fold-ups make it easy 
for players to see which buildings were 
more costly to make, and the colorful fold- 
up exteriors show at a glance what the 
buildings are made of. 

In addition, the size of a building can help 


determine the wealth of the occupants. Put 
ting several of the fold-ups together to make 
an estate will make it obvious to the PCs that 
an important character lives there. 

Adventures can arise out of building con 
struction. For example, a gang of bullies 
could be setting fire to the wood homes in 
the community, threatening residents for 
protection money. Or a high-level wizard 
could be terrorizing the wealthy by turning 
their homes to mud with a few carefully 
cast rock to mud spells. A shortage of build 
ing materials also can suggest an adventure; 
the player characters could be hired to trav 
el to a nearby town and bring back wagon 
loads of brick. 

Ice Caw Be Nice 

The location of a city can help determine 
what its buildings are made of. For example, 
a fishermen's village in the far north could 
consist of several dozen igloos. If there are 
artisans in that village, some of the build 
ings could be quite elaborate, with large, 
shiny domes and sparkling, twisting spires, 
all carved out of snow and ice. Ice sculp 
tures could ring the edge of town. The city 
would gleam in the sunlight, and the moon 
and stars would make the buildings glitter 
in the evening. Player characters would be 
attracted to such a city and intrigued by the 
people who created the buildings. 

In contrast, most of the buildings in a 
town on the plains would he built of wood, 
reeds, and grasses -building materials that 
would be abundant in that environment. A 
town like this might take on the appearance 
of a frontier town from the Old West, where 
a main street runs through the middle of 
the merchants' district. In another plains 
community, the buildings might consist of 
wooden structures covered with animal 
skins. 

A town or a village in the mountains actu 
ally might be built into the mountains, with 
homes being cavelike structures and their 
entrances covered with wood or stone 
fronts. 

The homes in a village nestled in the 
woods might be built in the trees and made 
out of grasses, twigs, leaves, and other 
abundant materials. 

Size an 5 the Lan5 

How much land a city covers, and the pop 
ulation of the city, are other factors that will 
play a role in what the buildings look like. If 


a town with a relatively small population 
covers a lot of land, the buildings could be 
spacious one-story structures surrounded 
by big yards. On the other hand, if a city has 
a large population and not a great deal of 
land, the buildings will be close together, 
with only enough yard to permit people to 
walk between the buildings. There will be 
few one-story structures, and when a build 
ing needs to be expanded, the owner will 
have to take off the roof and add another 
level. The fold-ups in this product can 
accommodate a variety of city styles and 
layouts. You can create a town where all the 
buildings are one story tall. Another town 
could have only multistoried buildings. 

DonT FongeX The WaLL 

If a community is surrounded by a wall 
for protection, it is important that you 
establish what the wall is made of. A wood 
en wall might not be much protection if the 
enemy comes at it with siege machinery and 
flaming oil. However, walls made of brick, 
fieldstone, dried earth, and other more 
durable substances will last longer and 
afford the residents more safety. 


21 






Most medieval cities did not have actual 
zoning laws. But it frequently happened 
that, over the years of the evolution of a 
city, sections of the population with some 
thing in common did end up being clustered 
in one general location -a neighborhood for 
a certain social class, people of a certain 
occupation, and so forth. You can apply the 
same principle when creating a fantasy city. 
If you put a little thought into establishing 
zones within a city, it will he easy for player 
characters to locate shops they want to go 
to and neighborhoods they want to investi 
gate. 

An easy way to begin developing neigh 
borhoods is to sketch out the city bounda- 


"Dwarf! You, dwarf!" said a halfling a few 
tables away. "Why aren't you at the feast 
for Moradin the dwarven community is 
having? 

Athormis and Boliver turned to the 
speaker. "My name's Boliver, not dwarf," 
Boliver said. "And I don't know anything 
about the feast you're talking about. But 
I'd like to hear more." 

The halfling approached the pair. "I'm 
Sneezil Fastfingers - at your service. You 
must be new to the city. I had just figured 
you for locals. This tavern isn't frequent 
ed by many visitors. They prefer the 
places with fancy decorations and fruit 
in the drinks. The dwarven community, 
about a dozen blocks from here, is hav 
ing a feast for Moradin. I'm going simply 
because I have a lot of friends in that 
neighborhood and they always invite 
me. You're welcome to join me. But your 
human friend might stand out a little." 

Athormis laughed and began gesturing 
with his hands. In a moment a dwarf 


with a long, brown beard sat in his place. 
"Let's go," Athormis said. "I'd like to see 
the dwarven neighborhood." 

"Sauter has quite a few neighbor 
hoods," the halfling said as he led them 
through the city streets. "But that's com 
mon. Almost every community that I've 
been in that was larger than a village had 
neighborhoods, sections of the commu 
nity designated for various groups of 
people and businesses. Neighborhoods 
make cities more interesting. And lots of 
adventure can be found in neighbor 
hoods. 

"Some cities create neighborhoods 
through zoning laws, establishing spe 
cific locations where homes, businesses, 
and public buildings can be erected. Cit 
ies without zoning laws or building plans 
could have a nightmare landscape of 
public buildings wedged between pri 
vate homes and merchants' shops scat 
tered throughout residential districts 
and the government quarter. A patch- 


work arrangement like that, which 
evolves with no regard to city planning, 
might not be the ideal place to live and 
certainly would present problems to 
visitors - especially people like your 
selves. It could be difficult to find any 
thing! 


22 









WHERE GOES THE NEIGHBORHOOD? 


ries and draw in some of the main streets. It 
is not necessary to draw in every building, 
and it is far from practical -especially if the 
city you are working with is large. After the 
sketch is complete, circle certain areas, des 
ignating them as business or merchants dis 
tricts, the government quarter, residential 
districts, the entertainment quarter, and 
wharf area (if there is one for the city). 

Many mid-sized and large cities will have 
several merchants and residential districts. 
This is because as the city grew, 'spreading 
out from its original center,, additional 
neighborhoods developed. In a very large 
city, there could appear to be cities within 
the city, because as that community grew to 
its great proportions large, self-sufficient 
neighborhoods developed. A person living 
on the east side of such a large city might 
never need to travel to the west side, since 
businesses, temples, and recreation areas 
are available on his own side of town. 

A PLa.ce foiz the 

WeaLThy 

Members of the upper class like to live 
apart from the rest of society, building their 
homes in a portion of the city or an area just 
outside the city where they can have large 
yards and peace and quiet. They prefer not 
to associate with classes of people beneath 
them, especially the lower class. They want 
a section that is clean and better than the 
rest of the city. 

Their homes will be manor houses, 
estates, or small palaces and castles. They 
will be made of the best materials, and 
many of them will be ornate and will have 
sculpted lawns. Some will have fences or 
walls around them for security. 

There may be little cause for player char 
acters to venture into a wealthy neighbor 
hood, unless they are invited to a feast or 
are curious. The crime rate is low or nonex 
istent in these neighborhoods, because the 
wealthy can afford guards or have access to 
magic to protect themselves and their 
belongings. However, there are always ave 
nues for adventures in any neighborhood. 
Perhaps a very crafty and very experienced 
thief overcame all the traps a wealthy land- 
owner had in place and managed to steal a 
set of priceless jewels. Or perhaps a mon 
ster has found its way into a wealthy neigh 
borhood and is killing the guards. Pulling 
the player characters into a wealthy neigh 
borhood for an adventure will let them wit 


ness the opulence and extravagance of the 
neighborhood compared to the conditions 
in poorer sections of the city. 

A Place fotz the Poor 

The buildings are close together in lower- 
class neighborhoods, and the people are, 
too. Several families -as many as 40 or 50 
people -could be crowded together in a 
large home. In the majority of poorer sec 
tions, the crime rate is high, and there is 
more violence, because the living conditions 
cause tempers to flare and people to 
become desperate. Because living condi 
tions usually are not clean, there are 
vermin -rats and insects of normal and 
giant size -living alongside the people and 
competing for their food and shelter. 

Because of these factors, player charac 
ters could frequently find themselves mov 
ing about in poorer "neighborhoods, 
especially if they are in the employ of the 
city and forced to deal with the crimes and 
giant vermin there. 

Aw5 The Classes isj 
B etuueeKi 

Members of the middle class live in a vari 
ety of buildings, based on how much money 
or property they have and what part of 
town they want to live in. Middle-class 
buildings range from rented quarters to 
fairly large homes. 

The majority of player characters will fit 
into this class of society; and therefore 
could end up spending most of their time in 
middle-class neighborhoods. These neigh 
borhoods are among the most colorful in 
the city, as the middle class is composed of a 
wide range of people of varying incomes 
and experience. 

MerzchaioTs 
Public Builditogs 

Merchants can be found in business dis 
tricts in lower-class and middle-class neigh 
borhoods, and should be located near roads 
so it will be easy for them to move goods in 
and out of town or to a river or harbor for 
shipping. If there are zoning laws in the city, 
merchants' stalls and buildings will be in 
designated areas and not scattered among 
residential buildings. The same can be said 
for public buildings, although most of those 
probably will be found near merchants' 


quarters and near middle-class neighbor 
hoods. Public buildings will consist of gov 
ernment offices, courts, guard and army 
barracks, jails, and public recreation cen 
ters. Grouping public buildings and mer 
chants shops together is convenient for the 
public. City residents and player characters 
will find it easy to take care of their business 
if all the places they need to visit are located 
close together. 

A Place foiz 
Dem)hum ans 

If a city is dominated by humans, other 
races who live there might have formed 
their own little neighborhoods for a sense 
of camaraderie and to feel more comfort 
able. 

A large city should have a foreign quarter, 
where humans who are natives of different 
parts of the country live. It also could have 
an elven quarter, which further could be 
broken down for half-elves, wood elves, 
and high elves. A halfling district could con 
sist of burrowlike homes and could be adja 
cent to a community of dwarves. It is 
important to note that not all elves, half- 
lings, dwarves, or other demihumans in a 
large city would live in one of those neigh 
borhoods. Many of the demihumans will 
live side by side with humans. 

Demihuman neighborhoods within a 
large city can add fun to a campaign and 
will provide player character demihumans 
places to go to learn information about 
what is going on in the city and to feel more 
at home. 


"Very practical -neighborhoods for peo 
ple of like backgrounds and interests," 
Athormis said. "I think adventurers 
would fit in well in a demihuman neigh 
borhood, since most adventuring parties 
are composed of a mix of races. And 
these neighborhoods would be great 
places to explore -like cities within a 
city." 

The halfling nodded and took them to 
a neighborhood where the homes looked 
very sturdy and were constructed of 
stone. "This is it," he said, and immedi 
ately began to size up the crowd. 






9 






CRIME AND PUNISHMENT 


As the two dwarves and the halfling 
entered the dwarven community, they 
saw two city guards carrying away a 
struggling dwarf. Behind the guard 
stormed a dwarf in an apron, brandish 
ing a meat cleaver. "And don't let him out 
for at least a year. Stealing from cele 
brants at the feast of Moradin is a terri 
ble crime." 

"Good thing when our adventuring 
group split up last year, the thief went 
with the ranger," Boliver said. Athormis 
nodded and headed toward the center of 
the celebration, where a large boar was 
roasting on a spit. The halfling gulped 
and stuffed his hands into his pants 
pockets. And the music and the crowd 
swallowed up the three. 


Communities the size of a village and larg 
er should have a code of laws which the res 
idents are expected to live up to and which 
the community has a way to enforce. Some 
communities as small as a hamlet might also 
have a code of laws, although it may not 
necessarily be written down. How complex 
a community's laws are will depend on the 
type of government in the community, the 
predominant alignment of the citizens and 
the leaders, and the amount of time you are 
willing to spend to put the laws together. 

It does not matter whether a city is run by 
good or evil characters; it still should have 
laws. Without laws and a means to enforce 
them, a city would be plagued by chaotic 
behavior, and bullies with enough power 
behind them soon would be in control. (This 
is basically the situation that would arise in 
an anarchy, where the only significant law 
is survival of the fittest.) 

A point about chaotic alignment as it per 
tains to communities and laws: The leader 
of a city may be chaotic in alignment, but 
the philosophy of the city itself must be 
based on some aspect of lawfulness in order 
for a legal system to exist. The concept of a 
chaotic person governing a lawful commu 
nity is not as strange as it might seem; the 
chaotic person is, by nature, concerned pri 
marily (perhaps solely) with his own wel 
fare, but he is willing to work "within the 
system" to achieve his goal. A chaotic good 
leader, for example, might want to treat his 
subjects well because by doing so he broad 
ens the base of his own popularity and 
power. A chaotic evil leader will make no 
secret of the fact that he cares for no one 


but himself -and woe to anyone who gets in 
the way of his selfish motives. 

It is not necessary to consult law books or 
police logs to create a system of laws and 
punishments for a community. Common 
sense will yield a workable system that can 
be understood by the player: characters. 
Many PCs will never become involved with 
the law in a community, because they will 
attempt to stay on the straight and narrow 
and will only hear about the laws through 
listening to gossip and reports of events in 
the city. However, other PCs who are bois 
terous in town or who are quick to jump 
into fights with the local residents could 
quickly learn firsthand about the legal sys 
tem. 

UsTibjg The Crimes 

Some of the more obvious crimes that 
could occur in a medieval-flavored fantasy 
community include murder, attempted 
murder; kidnapping, treason, assault, bur 
glary, theft, tax evasion, counterfeiting, 
defrauding the public or the government, 
attempting to overthrow the government, 
deserting from the army, vandalism, arson, 
public indecency, public nuisance, and pub 
lic intoxication. 

Some special laws should apply only to 
certain cities; it could be illegal to burn 
cooking or heating fires after midnight in a 
town where most of the buildings are made 
of wood or straw. Or it could be illegal to 
use more than a specified amount of water 
per day in a desert town where water is in 
limited supply. 

In addition, you could add crimes such as 
bringing monsters - alive or dead -into the 
city, selling magic items without a permit, 
riding nonstandard mounts without a per 
mit, and using magic or casting spells within 
the city walls. 

Some fantasy towns, just like present-day 
cities, could have several unusual laws that 
are on the books but are no longer rigidly 
enforced, defining such crimes as spitting 
on city streets or walking on the right side 
of a street after dark. 

PuwishmewT 

Penalties will vary with the crimes com 
mitted, with the more severe crimes such as 
murder, kidnapping, and treason having 
much stiffer punishments than crimes such 
as carrying a sword without a permit or 
public drunkenness. In addition, punish 


ments should vary between communities, 
since not all leaders view crimes the same 
and not all leaders have the same tempera 
ments. For example, someone found guilty 
of kidnapping in one city might be hanged 
the next morning, while a person found 
guilty of the same crime in another town 
might be sentenced to 10 years in prison. 
Also, what is considered a crime in one city, 
such as public drunkenness or public inde 
cency, might only be seen as an amusing or 
annoying act in some other city. 

In some communities, you might decide 
that justice is harsh, with severe penalties 
for all crimes and capital punishment for 
criminals who are guilty of seemingly minor 
violations. Residents will be on their toes, to 
put it mildly, in these communities. In other 
cities, justice may be lax, and people might 
be prosecuted only if they robbed the 
wrong person or kidnapped someone of 
consequence in the community. 

Possible penalties for crimes include 
death, prison sentences, monetary fines 
(which could be coupled with other senten 
ces), assignment to work details, loss of a 
limb (such as losing a hand or arm for steal 
ing), or being required to perform a danger 
ous mission for the government. This latter 
sentence could be used as a vehicle to pro 
pel player characters who are found guilty 
of breaking the law into adventures in and 
out of the city. A few penalties could also be 
based on a city's needs. For example, if a city 
is building a wall around its borders, the jus 
tice system would be more likely to senten 
ce criminals to a work detail than to time in 
a prison. 

CizeATibjg a JusTiee 
System 

If a community has laws and punishments 
for breaking those laws, it should also have 
a court system or some type of recourse for 
hearing the eases. Such a system could be 
complex, with judges to hear the case, offi 
cials representing the accused and the 
accusers, and a jury of selected citizens to 
decide on guilt or innocence. Or it could be 
simple, with a judge or moderator appoint 
ed to consider the evidence and render a 
verdict. Some courts might not even allow 
the accused to speak in their own behalf. A 
community with a large number of clerics 
could put them in charge of the justice sys 
tem. Their detect lie spells could eliminate 
the need for a jury in many cases. 


24 




CITY DESIGN SHEET 


Name of community- 

Community type (check one) 


Hamlet Village Town City 

Community population_ 

Location_ 


Prominent terrain features_ 


Type of government_ 

Government notes_ 


Community ruler(s)_ 

Rulers' titles_ 

City flag/symbol Government symbol/insignia 


City defenses_ 

No. of guards_ No. of soldiers_ 

Defense notes_ 



Types of neighborhoods. 


Neighborhood nt 













Customs and beliefs 


Appearance of buildings 


Major indnstries/livelibo ods 


Community's relationship with nearby communities 


Community Ruler(s): 
Characteristics/traits 


Strengths 


Weaknesses 


Goals 


Relationship with residents 


Background notes 


Height_ Weight_ Hair/Eyes 

_ Hit Po ints _ Armor Class_ 


Other important possessions 


Age- 

Class/Level _ 
Magic items 


26 














CUSTOMS AND BELIEFS 


"Praise Moradin!" the revelers shouted. 
Athormis reached for another hunk of 
roast boar while Boliver danced with his 
new friends. The pair had lost their half- 
ling companion shortly after arriving at 
the festivities. "Praise to Sauter for let 
ting people worship freely!" another cel 
ebrant added. 

The dance ended and Boliver joined his 
polymorphed friend. "I'm pleased to be 
in a city that doesn't restrict people's 
beliefs," the dwarf said. 

"We don't know that some beliefs 
aren't restricted," Athormis replied. 
"Maybe the Sauter officials don't permit 
the worship of evil deities. I halfway 
hope that's the case. I've had my fill of 
evil clerics and their fanatic followers. 
I've also had my fill of this roast boar. 
And I'm going to have to leave in a few 
minutes. My spell will be wearing off, 
and I'll be returning to my human form. 
The only other humans around here are 
city guards. And 1 don't want to cause 
problems." 


The customs and beliefs of the people are 
a part of every real-life community and fre 
quently play a large role in how the commu 
nity operates and prospers. The same 
should be true for fantasy cities. In a city 
you create, the most visible and most signifi 
cant aspect of customs and beliefs will prob 
ably be the various religions and deities that 
the townsfolk observe and worship. 

The size of a community should influence 
the number of temples and other places of 
worship and the number of deities the pop 
ulace respects. Obviously, a community 
with 250 residents is going to worship 
fewer different deities than a city with 
50,000 people. A small community may not 
even have a temple; the residents may hold 
services or pay their respects in a public 
building or in someone's home. 

However, in a very large city there could 
be more than a dozen temples, each one 
devoted to a different deity. Ultimately, it is 
up to you how many temples or places of 
worship are in each of your communities. 
You've already taken several steps on the 
way to this decision by deciding what types 
of people (humans and demihumans) the 
population is composed of, how the people 
make their livings, and what kind of govern 
ment they live under. Based on these facts, 
many conclusions about deities and wor 


ship will suggest themselves automatically. 
Following is some advice that will help you 
make logical and reasonable decisions 
about customs and beliefs. 

PoViTias PLays a PaizT 

The government within a city will have an 
impact on the number of temples and dei 
ties worshiped. A city governed by a hierar 
chy of priests may not be tolerant of other 
religions. Perhaps only the priests' religion 
is recognized, and all the known temples in 
that community are for that religion's deity 
or deities. In such a city you might want to 
establish other religions that operate under 
ground, away from the prying eyes of the 
city rulers. 

On the other hand, perhaps a large city 
governed by a democracy encourages free 
dom of worship, and there are many tem 
ples devoted to many different deities of 
many different alignments. 

Another option, in the middle ground, is 
to establish two to five major recognized 
religions within a city. The majority of the 
population would worship one of these dei 
ties, and there would be temples built to 
them. However, other deities could be rec 
ognized by a minority within the popula 
tion. These people might have to practice 
their beliefs in someone's home or business 
because they lack the money for a temple. 
However, they would not have to keep their 
beliefs hidden. 

Still another possibility is to have many 
places devoted to a variety of deities. How 
ever, not all of these places will be large, 
inspiring temples. Perhaps one location is a 
shrine in a park with benches around it. 
Another place could be a storefront estab 
lishment in a lower-class neighborhood that 
passes out prayers and food to the resi 
dents. And yet another option could be a 
covered wagon that travels throughout the 
city, while the clerics who drive it spread 
their faith. 

AUgwcnewT Makes a 
D)ffeRewce 

The alignment of a city's rulers will have 
an effect on the number of deities wor 
shiped and the deities' alignments. For 
example, a lawful good monarch would pre 
vent temples from being built to chaotic 
neutral or evil deities, if some of the city's 
residents wanted to worship these deities. 


they would have to do so in secret. This 
monarch could declare one official deity for 
the city, while not prohibiting the populace 
from worshiping other good deities. 

If a city is governed by evil rulers, the dei 
ty recognized would most likely be evil - 
with the worship of good deities frowned 
upon or prohibited. However, if the evil 
rulers are trying to hide their true natures, 
they might allow residents to worship good 
and neutral deities. 

These are only examples of how govern 
ment influences customs and beliefs. It is up 
to you to determine how -if at all -the polit 
ical and religious factions relate. In some cit 
ies, church and state may be entirely 
separate; the government doesn't care who 
worships whom, so long as religious issues 
don't pose a threat to the general welfare or 
to the government itself. 

CizeATibJg a CowfDcT 

You should consider establishing a con 
flict in a community between worshipers. If 
a city or town has two major temples, the 
leaders of each establishment could be 
involved in a battle of one-upmanship and 
could continually try to recruit worshipers, 
both from within the community and from 
within groups of transient adventurers. 
Perhaps both temple leaders are of good 
alignment and do not go about their efforts 
maliciously, but are still causing problems 
within the community. 

An opposing possibility could be cooper 
ating temples, where the leaders work 
together and maybe even have a joint coun 
cil where the community's concerns are dis 
cussed. 

Conflict, of course, translates into an 
opportunity for adventure -and that's 
where the PCs come in. Perhaps some of the 
party members are devout followers of a 
deity whose worshipers are being perse 
cuted. Maybe the PCs have no vested inter 
est in any of a city's major religions, but will 
be hired by the government to help quell a 
disturbance between two rival factions. 

Keep ft FasjTasTic 

No matter how many temples you estab 
lish in your communities or how many dei 
ties your NPCs and PCs recognize, you 
should remember to keep it on a fantasy 
level. Bringing real-life religions and beliefs 
into a fantasy campaign usually is not a 
good idea. 


27 




PUTTING THE PCs TO WORK 


Boliver and Athormis left the revelers 
behind - and just in time, as the mage's 
polymorph spell ran out and he returned 
to his human form. "Mmmm, but that 
was delicious. And we didn't even have 
to pay for it," Athormis said. 

"Don't feel bad about it. I donated ten 
gold to the temple they're building. That 
should just about cover what you ate! 
The friends laughed and headed to the 
center of the city, where they planned to 
find lodging. Along they way they spot 
ted notices illuminated by the light pour 
ing out of building windows. Boliver 
stopped to look at a few. 

"Athormis, look at this. These are post 
ings for work: merchant guards, street 
cleaners, teachers, sailors. If we ever 
run out of gold, we could always work 
for a few months." 

Athormis chuckled. "Remember when 
we were sergeants? About eight years 
ago? That stint of employment lasted 
about two weeks. You had trouble keep 
ing regular working hours." 


A community is a busy place. There's 
always work to be done, and usually a 
shortage of people who are willing and able 
to perform that work. Whether for a diver 
sion, a challenge, or a way to pick up some 
cash without risking one's life, player char 
acters may decide (or you may decide for 
them) that getting a job in the city for a 
while is not a bad idea. 

For people as skilled and versatile as the 
PCs, the possibilities are almost limitless. 
Joining the city guard, enlisting in the city 
army, hiring on as bodyguards for impor 
tant and wealthy people or city officials, 
becoming bouncers for taverns and other 
establishments, becoming bounty hunters 
or spies, running for public office or assum 
ing an official position, seeking a simple job 
in the merchants' quarter or along the 
docks, and opening a business are among 
the jobs that adventurers can consider. 
Some of the opportunities are described in a 
little more detail below, including sugges 
tions about how to make the jobs interest 
ing for your players and how to turn them 
into adventures for a campaign. 

Osj Guatzd! 

A job in the city guard will appeal primari 
ly to fighters and clerics, characters who 


typically have good fighting abilities. 
Thieves who successfully convince city offi 
cials that they are fighters also can find 
work on the guard force. Mages and illu 
sionists are frequently seen as physically 
weak and would be encouraged to seek 
work elsewhere. Most city guards would 
prefer to hire characters who would wear 
armor. It is up to you to decide if your city's 
guard force is an equal-opportunity employ 
er, hiring people of both sexes, or if the 
guard force is strictly a men-only or a 
women-only line of work. 

The guard force in a town is composed 
primarily of 0-level and 1st level fighters, 
with a few higher-level fighters serving as 
the top-ranking officers. Player character 
adventurers of any level would be wel 
comed into the guard and probably would 
be given positions of authority. However, in 
a city, especially a large one, the guard force 
would be more experienced. Perhaps noth 
ing less than 1st or 2nd level fighters would 
be accepted, and guard sergeants would be 
no lower than 3rd level. A larger city has a 
greater population to draw from, and there 
fore can be a little more choosy about who 
is hired to protect the citizens. 

Before you allow player characters to join 
the city guard, you must decide how many 
people are in the guard and the ranks and 
numbers of the guard officers. You need to 
assign levels to the ranks, in part based on 
the size of the community. For example, in a 
city, sergeants might be of 3rd and 4th 
levels, lieutenants 5fh and 6th, and captains 
7th and 8th. 

In a town, the levels of guard officers 
would generally be lower because there are 
fewer people to draw from and there would 
be a smaller guard force. 

In a community of any size, you can have 
a little fun by creating an 8th level fighter 
who's still only a sergeant or an enlisted 
man because he has trouble following 
orders. At the other extreme is the captain 
who's a measly 3rd level fighter -the son of 
the commandant, who was given or pro 
moted into a position he's not really capable 
of holding. 

When a player character asks for a posi 
tion on the guard force, you should look at 
the PC's level and decide what rank to 
assign the character. However, a 6th level 
character hoping to be hired as a captain 
could be in for a surprise. You might want to 
have the character start out as a sergeant to 
prove himself. To add a touch of realism, 
you can list how many men the PC officer is 


in charge of and the amount of time he is 
expected to work. City officials might be tol 
erant of adventurers, allowing them to 
work on shifts of three weeks on and three 
weeks off, to accommodate an adventurer's 
"need" to make journeys to dungeons and 
wilderness areas. After all, the city will ben 
efit because the fighter is gaining more 
experience, sharpening his abilities, and 
possibly picking up magic items to improve 
his ability to hold his own in combat. 

It is important to establish the guard 
force's duties, which probably would con 
sist mainly of patrolling the city and arrest 
ing lawbreakers. If a city has an 
adventurers quarter, the guard officials 
might station PC guards there, believing 
thaf adventurers can deal better with other 
adventurers than city-bred guards who lack 
the same life experiences. 

You should award PC guards money and 
experience for their accomplishments and 
should promote PCs within the ranks as 
they rise in levels and perform well for the 
city. Guard work is an adventure in itself, 
and should bring rewards accordingly. 

Concocting adventures that are related to 
a PC's stint on guard duty will give you more 
opportunities to use the street layouts and 
fold-up buildings that come with this 
product. The PC guards could be charged 
with stopping a riot in the merchants quar 
ter, catching a notorious cat burglar, halting 
a ring of pickpockets, posing as victims to 
snare a band of thieves and muggers, or 
investigating a counterfeiting racket. In 
addition, player character guards could 
pick up a myriad of rumors while on their 
beats, learning about newly discovered 
dungeons or unearthed ruins from adven 
turers they meet. 

Working on the city guard will also give 
PCs a chance to travel throughout the city, 
learning about all the neighborhoods and 
the people who live there. It is a perfect 
opportunity for you to show off your crea 
tion. 

They'Re isj The Artdy 
Nouj 

Serving in a city's militia is in some 
respects similar to being in the city guard. 
PCs could be assigned ranks based on their 
levels. However, unlike in the guard, wiz 
ards would be sought after. Military leaders 
recognize that a well-cast fireball can do 
much more damage than a squadron of low- 






level fighters. You could choose to have the 
military pay spellcasters more than ordi 
nary soldiers. But it would be unlikely that 
wizards would be named as officers. Fight 
ers, most military officials would agree, 
have the best military minds and can plan 
the most successful strategies. Thieves 
might be welcomed into some armies if they 
agree to perform spying missions. And cler 
ics would be in great demand because of 
their ability to heal the wounded. The army 
is a place where an entire adventuring par 
ty could find work. 

How busy an army is -and the player 
characters enlisted in it -will depend on the 
city's relationship with nearby tribes and 
communities. An army in peacetime is more 
likely to grant the PCs leaves so they can 


adventure. However, the adventuring likely 
will have to be short-term, since most fur 
loughs might be for only a week or two. 

Army duty is a continuous source of 
adventures and could keep the PCs so busy 
they will not have time to look for a 
dungeon. An army, or portions of it, could 
be called upon to help the city guard when 
disasters such as tornadoes, floods, and 
massive fires strike, in addition, members 
of the army could also be called upon to stop 
riots, to protect city officials, or to serve as 
added protection during festivals and cele 
brations. 

Player characters can be encouraged to 
take an active part in a city's army by being 
made responsible for drawing up defense 
plans and determining how troops will be 


deployed if the city comes under attack. If a 
city is located next to an ocean or a large riv 
er, the PCs could be expected to develop 
water-based defense plans. 

If the city is aggressive and wants to use 
its army to wipe out tribes of monsters lair 
ing nearby, the PCs would be called upon to 
develop attack strategies and may be asked 
to lead an advance force to learn the 
strength of the monsters. If the city learns 
that a neighboring city is planning a war, 
the PCs could be charged with helping to 
direct an attack against that city -taking the 
war to the enemy to prevent the PCs' home 
city from being damaged and innocent citi 
zens from being killed. The player charac 
ters also could be assigned spying missions 
to neighboring cities. Or they could be 


29 






PUTTING THE PCs TO WORK 


asked to patrol the area surrounding the 
city, where they might find an adventure or 
two to undertake. 

Be)wg Bodyguarzds 

This is another opportunity for the prayer 
characters to find work as a group. Wealthy 
merchants, rich landowners, and powerful 
city officials all need protection -or think 
they need protection. Some of these people 
have accumulated enemies through the 
years: people they have put out of business 
because of shrewd mercantile maneuvers, 
former landowners who have had their 
property absorbed, and former officials 
who were ousted from office or defeated in 
elections. The PCs could be asked to accom 
pany these high-powered NPCs as they trav 
el through the city or journey to other 
cities. 

The job will provide rich role-playing 
opportunities, as the PCs will have to deal 
with haughty NPCs who are used to being 
waited on, greedy merchants who only care 
about making money, or political officials 
whom they might not see eye to eye with. It 
could test the PCs' loyalty to their employ 
ers. However, not all high-powered NPCs 
should have major character flaws. Some of 
them should be easy to get along with, and 
be people with whom the PCs could easily 
sympathize. 

Adventure possibilities include protecting 
a political official from assassination 
attempts; accompanying a wealthy mer 
chant who is traveling with a cargo of pre 
cious gems and other valuables; setting up 
defenses for a wealthy landowner who has 
been receiving threats from an unknown 
party; guarding the city's museum, which is 
filled with temptations for thieves; or 
escorting a nobleman's son to a wedding 
with another nobleman's daughter in a 
nearby city. 

As with a city guard position, being a 
bodyguard will allow a PC to explore many 
sections of the city and will let you show off 
some of the work you have put into creating 
the city. 

BoubJcerzs 

STtiobjgAtims 

Although this is a viable form of employ 
ment for player character adventurers, 
especially fighters, there are fewer kinds of 
scenario possibilities you can develop. How 


ever, the job is not without merit. It will be 
an avenue for you to use some of the build 
ings in this product and stage elaborate bar 
room brawls that will test PCs' abilities to 
subdue NPCs without killing them. You can 
create chase scenes that will have the PCs 
running after culprits through the twisting 
and turning streets of the city, over roof 
tops, and perhaps through dark and dan 
gerous alleys. 

It is likely that only strong-looking fight 
ers will be employed bouncers for tav 
erns and other establishments in the city, 
with the wages being dependent upon how 
well-to-do or busy the establishment is. And 
it is not likely that the entire party of adven 
turers can work as bouncers at the same 
establishment. However, while there are 
drawbacks to this type of work, there are a 
few advantages. PCs working as bouncers 
in the adventurers quarter could learn 
about dungeons, monsters lairs, pirates' 
plans to attack the city, or thieves discussing 
what establishments to rob. 

BoumTv HuwTeRs awd 
Spies 

These professions could be used for 
adventures in and out of the city. PCs of any 
class, race, or sex could become bounty 
hunters or spies, working for city officials, 
merchants, or themselves. 

As bounty hunters the, PCs could stalk the 
city streets or the area around the city, look 
ing for NPC villains with prices on their 
heads. This could pit the PCs against power 
ful and cunning NPCs you have developed 
and could take the PCs almost anywhere 
you desire -in the sewers under the city 
streets, through the various neighborhoods 
of the city, and through the environs sur 
rounding the city, testing their investigative 
and combat abilities. Player characters 
could come up with a considerable amount 
of treasure this way, or could end up losing 
out if their targets are more powerful than 
they are. They could even gain fame and 
fortune in the city. Of course, you always 
can add a few twists, such as the PCs' target 
being framed by the people who hired the 
PCs to catch him. 

Spying assignments can also take the play 
er characters to a variety of places and will 
test their ability to be stealthy information 
gatherers, rather than hack-and-slash 
adventurers who swing first and ask ques 
tions later. And they will allow you to care 


fully lay out encounters involving the 
streets and fold-up buildings. 

Spy work in itself is an adventure, and has 
the potential to lead the characters into a 
string of further adventures as they uncov 
er more and more information. Perhaps the 
PCs will uncover the location of a major 
thieves' guild; will learn about a plot to over 
throw the government; will discover that 
counterfeit coins are being released in the 
city in an attempt to ruin the economy; or 
will discover that a band of evil adventurers 
is bringing monsters into the city through 
the sewer system and plans to use them to 
threaten merchants into paying protection 
money. 

Spying is yet another profession which 
will help the PCs leam about your cities and 
the colorful NPCs who reside there. It can 
also put the PCs in peril as they accumulate 
enemies who might pursue them in adven 
tures in the future. 

GeTDwg )wTo Office 

Politics is a line of work that could appeal 
to any player character, regardless of class, 
race, or sex -although in some fantasy cam 
paigns it may be difficult for a woman or a 
demihuman to rise to a position of power in 
a human community. How player charac 
ters become involved in the government of 
a city or town will depend largely on the 
form of government you have established. 
For example, if a community is run by a dic 
tator, the only way the PCs could get into 
power is to make good friends with the dic 
tator and be appointed to a position, or to 
overthrow him and take a position by force. 
On the other hand, a democracy opens the 
door to all sorts of possibilities. In any case, 
three main factors have a bearing on how 
successful a PC might be as a leader or poli 
tician; these are discussed below. 

Size of the Community: PCs wanting a 
position of power probably will have better 
luck obtaining it in smaller communities, 
where there are not as many adventurers 
and where they will be deemed as more 
important people. It will be easier for PCs to 
impress a community of 500 than one of 
5,000. And if the community's residents are 
taken with the PCs, they may even ask the 
characters to lead them. 

Race: Although many NPCs in fantasy 
campaigns are race-blind, communities as a 
whole are not. A half-elf seeking an appoint- 


30 




PUTTING THE PCs TO WORK 


ment as a city official may not be well 
received in a town composed primarily of 
humans. However, the half-elf would have a 
better chance of getting the position than a 
full elf, dwarf, halfling, or gnome. Of 
course, if the appointment is being made by 
the city's chief official, and the PC is in good 
favor with that official, race might have lit 
tle impact. 

Charisma: Politicians and officials tend 
to be charismatic. They have a way with 
words and can turn a phrase to get the pub 
lic behind them or to get the public not to 
suspect them of wrongdoing. The public is 
drawn to charismatic people; they like to 
hear them talk, they like to watch them in 
action, and they tend to support a charis 
matic person over a mousy individual who 
doesn't present himself well. Obviously, a 
player character with a Charisma score of 
16 should have a better chance of being 
elected or appointed to a position than a 
player character with a score of 6. It only 
makes sense to have a better-received or 
better-liked PC in a position of power than a 
PC who repulses a portion of the popula 
tion. 

Being the Top Dog: There are numer 
ous ways for player characters to be 
appointed as lesser city officials or to be put 
in charge of a city guild or the city guard or 
army. Winning favor with the present lead 
er or leaders is one of the best avenues. 
However, there may come a time when 
some of the player characters who have 
been involved with the city campaign for a 
while want a major position of power or 
want to become the city leader. How this 
will occur will depend almost exclusively on 
the type of government in place. For exam 
ple, player characters will not be able to be 
in charge of a city with a monarchy unless 
they are related to the royal family or for 
some reason depose the monarch. PCs in a 
city with a tyrannical despot might be 
tempted to overthrow the government for 
the betterment of themselves and the rest 
of the residents, putting themselves in 
charge. In a militocracy, they might want to 
take over the government for similar rea 
sons. However, in a democracy or a repub 
lic, they should have to campaign for a 
position, selling themselves to the people eli 
gible to vote. All of these possibilities will 
provide adventures for the PCs. And many 
city adventures will abound once they are 
in office, as they must deal with some of the 


extraordinary and fantastic confrontations 
facing the city. 

However, once PCs come into power - 
something you might want to reserve for 
higher-level PCs - they will find their life 
styles drastically, and perhaps unfortu 
nately, changed. Player characters who are 
lesser officials in a city or town government 
should still have plenty of time on their 
hands to adventure. Even PCs who are in 
charge of the city guilds, the guard force, or 
the army will be able to get away for a time, 
putting their next in command in charge in 
their absence. But PCs who are on top in the 
political structure will find their time taken 
up with city problems and concerns. They 
might be able to adventure once in a while, 
but not often. Some players could find that 
putting one of their characters into a 
supreme position of power is a good way to 
retire that character. 

SeTDwg up Shop 

Becoming merchants might appeal to 
player characters who want to add a little 
financial security to their lives, establish a 
permanent place of residence, and have a 
place to sell all the treasure they have been 
accumulating on trips to the dungeon. 

Setting up shop as a merchant can be as 
much fun as building a castle, since players 
have to determine how large a building they 
want, what they want to sell, and how many 
employees their characters will need to hire 
to watch the shop so the characters can still 
adventure. This may be one of the most con 
venient forms of employment in a city, 
because a merchant could set his own hours 
and close down the shop if he is away 
adventuring for an extended period of time. 

Of course, this form of employment also 
will take a little extra work on your part, as 
you will have to determine how much to 
charge the player character for construc 
tion of a building, or how much rent to 
charge him for occupying an existing struc 
ture; how much to assess him for the busi 
ness's operating costs, including the cost for 
hired help; and how much money he brings 
in monthly or annually from the goods he 
sells. Income will be tied to the goods sold. 
For example, a player character opening a 
bakery is not going to make as much as a 
player character opening a weapons shop 
fhat features a few magic items and baubles 
found on adventures. Some player charac 
ters could choose to open businesses based 
on their nonweapon proficiencies such as 


gem cutting, carpentry, weaving, pottery 
making, and so forth. This would give the 
PCs a chance to use their non-fighting 
related skills. 

Many adventures can spring from PC- 
owned businesses. For example, the player 
characters could be faced with a gang of 
thieves demanding protection money; could 
have to deal with belligerent customers 
who are not quite human, or could have to 
confront a ring of thieves bothering the 
merchants in a district. 

UJdoiz awd 

Obb Jobs 

Some player characters might opt for 
manual labor, such as loading ships on the 
docks, loading and unloading merchant 
wagons, and hiring on construction crews. 
Or they might choose to seek part-time 
employment as clerks or private guards in 
the merchants quarter. These jobs are not 
as exciting as the others described in this 
section, and they will not yield the PCs 
much money. But they will serve to occupy 
PCs between adventures and can be used as 
a vehicle for claiming that some characters 
are occupied when those PCs' players are 
not able to attend a gaming session. 

Still, if you're clever you can create adven 
tures for these PCs in their mundane jobs. 
For example, player characters working on 
the docks could get pressed or kidnapped 
into labor on a ship, setting them up for 
high-seas adventures. Or, PCs working in 
shops in tire merchants quarters could save 
the day when thieves and ruffians attempt 
to ruin the business. 

Many other avenues for PC employment 
exist in a city, and will depend in part on the 
size of the city and the businesses and 
adventures you have planned. Some player 
characters could become so involved in 
their jobs that (for a time, at least) they will 
not want to look for adventure elsewhere. 




KEEPING THE PARTY TOGETHER 



One of the most difficult tasks that you 
will face when running city adventures is 
keeping a party of player character adven 
turers together -or, failing that, handling 
the play session during times when the PCs 
have separated. Frequently when a group 
of player characters descends upon a town, 
the temptation is great for them to split up. 
Each character wants to go his own way for 
a while, taking care of shopping and what 
ever other kind of "town business" needs to 
be done. 

There's nothing wrong with this from the 
standpoint of realism or practicality, but 
obviously a fragmented party can be very 
taxing for a DM. When a split occurs, you 
may be obliged to take turns dealing with 
each splinter group while the other players 
sit around the table and get bored or carry 
on a conversation, distracting you and the 
player(s) you are trying to pay attention to 
at the moment. It may be difficult for you to 
spend an equal amount of time with each 
player, which can cause hard feelings. 

There are several ways to address the 
split-group situation. You can try to keep it 
from happening, or you can make the best 
of it and try to give each PC or small group 
of PCs the freedom they want without 
inconveniencing other players. 

If PCs want to split up but you don't think 
that the tactic is necessary or desirable, you 
can try to contrive some situation that will 
gently force them to stay together or rejoin 
into a group if they have already separated. 
Solitary adventurers would be more prone 
to muggings and robbery attempts than PCs 
traveling in a group. Merchants might 
charge exorbitant prices to adventurers 
who go shopping by themselves, but offer a 
lower "group rate" when everyone in a par 
ty comes into the store at the same time. 
Without being too blatant about it, you 
might be able to plunge the party into a 
threatening or tension-filled situation right 
after they come through the gates, so that 
their natural inclination would be to stay 
together in case real trouble breaks out. 

If PCs insist on going their separate ways 
and you don't really want to deny them the 
opportunity to do some looking around on 
their own, then you have to address your 
players and get them to understand and 
agree to some ground rules. Explain to them 
that it will take some time for you to deal 
with each of their characters individually, 
and that anyone who isn't in the action at a 
given time should still pay attention to 
what's going on -so that they can learn 


from the other player's experience, and 
none of the players will have to waste time 
later recounting what happened to his char 
acter while the group was split up. 

For the utmost in realism, you can allow 
players to take their characters on solitary 
jaunts through the city, and conduct each 
session away from the sight and hearing of 
other players. Explain to the players that if 
they really want to go off on their own, then 
you're willing to accommodate them -but 
what that means is that any player not pres 
ently involved in the action will have to 
leave the room. No one will be allowed to 
know what has happened to his comrades' 
characters until those characters reunite 
and relate to each other what they've expe 
rienced in the meantime. This is the price 
they'll have to pay for splitting up. By going 
off separately, they'll be able to explore a lot 
more of the city in the same amount of 
game time than if they had all traveled 
together -but the tradeoff is that some of 
them might overlook clues or special fea 
tures that other players' characters would 
have noticed if they had been moving as a 
group. And all the players will have to 


spend time later relating to each other what 
their characters discovered and learned 
while they were on their own. If you 
explain to the players ahead of time that this 
is what they can expect, then they will have 
no reasonable cause to complain if each of 
them is only involved in a fraction of the 
playing session during which all of their 
exploration, shopping, and other solitary 
activities are taking place. 

In short, a split party doesn't have to be a 
problem, as long as each player under 
stands that along with freedom comes 
responsibility. You'll have to be willing to 
put up with handling each PC or small 
group of PCs separately for as long as they 
decide to stay apart, but chances are that 
the players will soon tire of being lone 
wolves and will want to get back into a large 
group-because, as you and they all know, 
the whole is greater than the sum of its 
parts. 


32 



Boliver and Athormis, tired from the fes 
tivities at the feast of Moradin, checked 
into the Golden Dragon Inn for the eve 
ning and paid extra for warm baths. As 
the proprietor brought them fresh lin 
ens and water, he assessed their condi 
tion. "Tired from traveling? You must 
have come a long way for the street festi 
val that starts tomorrow. But you'll find 
the journey was worth it. Dancing, sing 
ing, merchants with items on sale, and 
all sorts of food. People will be celebrat 
ing into the early morning hours. You 
better get your rest." 

Athormis sighed and took the bed by 
the window. "I've had enough celebra 
tions." 

Boliver laughed. "There are never 
enough celebrations, my friend. I could 
get to like this place." 


Festivals, street fairs, and other special 
events will provide a continuous source for 
city adventures and will often induce player 
characters to stay longer in a city because 
they want to witness or participate in the 
upcoming events. Communities of all sizes 
have special events, with larger towns and 
cities having more elaborate events and 
usually staging them more often. 

Us) wg the 
Neighborhoods 

Some events are limited to neighbor 
hoods. For example, a halfling neighbor 
hood in a large city might hold regular 
feasts, for which everyone in the commu 
nity prepares something to eat and partici 
pates in the pageantry in some way. A 
dwarven neighborhood could hold a cere 
mony to revere the residents' deity, while 
an elven neighborhood could stage a festival 
to honor nature. 

In general, lower-class neighborhoods 
would not have a lot of organized celebra 
tions, either because the people aren't very 
jovial about their situation in life or because 
they really don't have much to celebrate. 
Upper-class residents would probably con 
sider themselves above such unsophisti 
cated displays of emotion. But middle-class 
neighborhoods could be home to a variety 
of events. 


STreeT Festivals 

One of the most common forms of cele 
bration is the "ordinary" street festival. 
Such events draw spectators and partici 
pants from throughout the city and from 
neighboring communities. They are a boon 
to the merchants, fun for the residents, and 
a headache for city officials, who must con 
tend with the noise, litter, and crime rate 
attached to such events. 

Festivals also draw thieves. Crowds of 
people are to thieves like honey to a bear. 
The guild will be out in force, operating a 
variety of scams to take money away from 
the celebrants. Thieves will also visit the 
homes of: people who are away having a 
good time. Thwarting these thieves can pro 
vide the basis of several adventures for the 
player characters. 

Barga)w Dav$ 

Perhaps the merchants quarter will fea 
ture bargain days, when they take some of 
their merchandise out on the street and 
offer it at discount prices. Player characters 
could be drawn to the possibility of getting 
adventuring gear or magic items for less 
than normal price. Again, sales such as 
these will bring out the thieves. Bargain 
days could also give the player characters 
more than they bargained for: magic shops 
might put out less than reliable items, uni 
dentified magic items, and Potions that do 
not quite live up to expectations. 

TbaT's 

EKjTeRTa)KJmeKjT 

Communities wanting to add a bit of cul 
ture to the lives of the residents could open 
their gates to bands of performers who 
offer to put on dramatic, musical, and 
humorous plays. Although sitting in an 
audience and watching performers recite 
clever dialogue might not be on the player 
characters' list of favorite things to do, the 
play can provide a vehicle for city adven 
tures. Perhaps a member or two of the cast 
is something other than he seems -a spy 
working for a rival government or an assas 
sin waiting for a chance at one of the city's 
leaders, who happens to be sitting in the 
front row. Maybe one of the actors plans to 
kidnap a prominent member of society, 
spirit him away disguised in a gaudy actor's 
costume, and ransom him. 


Carx>h?al-s awd Side 
Sbocus 

This kind of special event is a vehicle to 
unleash monsters upon an unsuspecting 
community. A traveling carnival with a wag 
on train of unusual animals and monsters 
rolls into town to put on a performance. 
The event draws people from all of the city's 
neighborhoods, including a few mischie 
vous youngsters who let some of the mon 
sters loose. 

However, carnivals offer other avenues of 
excitement to the player characters. Some 
carnivals include displays and attractions to 
test a character's strength, wit, or daring. 
What bold fighter would pass up an oppor 
tunity to show off his muscles in front of a 
crowd? Carnivals could also offer gambling 
games (some honest, some not), where play 
er characters can bet some of their 
dungeon-earned gold pieces. 

Celebrafiwg the PCs 

Perhaps the player characters are heroes 
to the town, and the residents want to show 
their affection and appreciation by holding 
a celebration to honor them. It is possible 
the town will be so proud of its heroes that 
the residents will begin fabricating great 
and wondrous tales of their accomplish 
ments, making the PCs seem much stronger 
and more experienced than they actually 
are. This could translate into an open invita 
tion for some high-level villains to take them 
on. Celebrations or feasts to honor the PCs 
also would pose good opportunities for any 
of the characters' enemies to come to town 
and wreak havoc or embarrass the PCs. 

BiXt Do k"T Overdo FC 

Whatever events you decide to establish 
in your cities, you must be cautious not to 
have something go wrong at every one. If a 
major problem occurred every time the city 
celebrated, there soon would be no more 
celebrations. 

Of course, pickpocketing and other minor 
crimes always will occur -and sometimes 
player characters should be the victims. But 
kidnappings, murders, and other major 
incidents should not be a regular event. Let 
the residents and the PCs relax once in a 
while. 


33 





THE LIFEBLOOD OF THE CITY 


The quality and size of a community is 
tied to the livelihoods of its residents. No vil 
lage, town, or city could exist for very long 
if the people who lived there did not have a 
means to support themselves. In general, 
the smaller a community is, the more cen 
tralized its economy will be. In a village, the 
majority of the residents might make their 
livings doing the same sort of work (fishing, 
farming, mining, etc.), while in a large town 
or a city, there is liable to be a great number 
of different professions and a wide diversi 
ty between them. 

The industries or livelihoods predomi 
nant in a community could be linked to the 
reason a community formed. For example, a 
town at the juncture of a river and the coast 
that was founded by a group of fishermen 
still could have fishing as its predominant 
industry- probably would have, unless 
something remarkable happened in the 
meantime to cause the fishing industry to 
be supplanted by something else. A city that 
began as a mining settlement still could 
have a large number of residents working 
in the mines - unless the mines have been 
depleted, in which case the city might be in 
serious economic trouble. You must deter 
mine the major industries or livelihoods in 
each community in your campaign world, 
basing them in part on the community's 
location, the nature of its population, and 
the major industries of other communities 
in the vicinity. On this last point: It would 
not make sense for two villages located just 
a few miles apart to both be primarily 
involved in mining, unless there's plenty of 
raw ore to be had in the surrounding hills 
and mountains or unless you want to create 
a conflict situation where both villages are 
laying claim to the same territory. 

After establishing how the residents of 
each community (particularly the smaller 
ones) make their livings, it's time to think 
about the other important aspect of a com 
munity's economic health: the professionals 
who make, sell, and trade things -the mer 
chants and craftsmen who provide all the 
items that the residents cannot make or oth 
erwise obtain for themselves. 

Commence 

CriAfTsmen 

Communities grow into villages, towns, 
and cities as merchants and craftsmen set 
up stalls and shops. Merchants and crafts 
men make a living off the residents and add 


to the economic prosperity of a community 
because they hire workers) boosting 
employment prospects. As the job opportu 
nities increase, more people move into a 
community looking for work, increasing its 
population. And as a community's popula 
tion grows, more merchants and craftsmen 
open up stalls and shops, continuing the 
cycle. 

Merchants and craftsmen are essential to 
a fantasy campaign, especially if you want 
your players to spend some time in cities. 
One of the main reasons PCs travel to cities 
is to purchase goods or trade some of the 
items they have acquired on their adven 
tures. If you have not put some thought into 
the merchants and craftsmen in your cities, 
the time the PCs spend there will be brief 
and unrewarding. 

Openlng up fori 
Business 

Before you randomly set up shops in cities 
and towns, you must consider the popula 
tion and makeup of the communities. The 
size of a community determines how many 
merchants and craftsmen have shops, and 
the makeup and location of a community 
could help determine the types of busi 
nesses. For example, a hamlet with 50 resi 
dents probably will not have any merchants 
or craftsmen. There simply aren't enough 
people to support a business. The residents 
will rely on farming, fishing, or other indus 
tries to support themselves, and will have to 
travel to larger communities to buy things 
that they cannot make. A large hamlet with 
250 residents might have one craftsman, 
such as a blacksmith. 

The larger the community, tire more mer 
chants and craftsmen it will have, and 
therefore the stronger the lure it will be for 
PCs who want to go on a shopping expedi 
tion. A very large city will have hundreds of 
merchants and craftsmen selling a wide 
variety of goods and offering many, many 
services. PCs could find a little bit of every 
thing in a big city. You could find it easy, 
although time-consuming, to list the many 
types of shops and businesses available. 

However, the situation is much different 
for you and the players when dealing with 
small communities. The smaller the com 
munity, the more care you might have to 
take in selecting the merchants and crafts 
men. In a small town there will be fewer 
dealers, fewer choices for the player char 


acters. And because there are fewer shops, 
the merchandise those shops sell and fhe 
services dealers offer must make sense. For 
example, a small town with a dozen mer 
chants and craftsmen is not likely to have a 
dealer of rare books and scrolls or a jeweler 
who sells expensive rings and necklaces. 
The merchants in a small community likely 
will cater to the basic needs of the populace, 
providing food, clothing, shoes, tools, and 
other essentials. A small community would 
not be likely to have a magic shop, although 
some merchants might have a magic item or 
two for sale. 

A small community probably will have a 
blacksmith, an inn, and a tavern. There 
could be a dry goods dealer, a fabric shop, 
and a general store that sells a little bit of 
everything. While the residents might be 
able to purchase a few books from one of 
those merchants, there would not be much 
call for one merchant to deal exclusively in 
books; such items are expensive, and in a 
medieval fantasy setting would only appeal 
to a small portion of the populace. And a 
jeweler has to have a reasonably large popu 
lation base to draw upon, since not every 
one can afford his wares. 

However, there is a pleasant medium. A 
mid-sized or large town will have mer 
chants quarters that boast a variety of 
goods and services, although PCs looking 
for swords may not have a dozen weapon 
shops to browse through. And magic might 
be a little more readily available than in a 
small community, although it would be 
unlikely that a shop would deal exclusively 
in magic in any community smaller than a 
city. 

Touching on The 
M enchxnblse 

A community's location and population 
will influence the type of merchants and 
craftsmen that set up shop. Location is tied 
to a community's industries, or livelihoods; 
therefore location also affects a commu 
nity's needs. For example, a city on a sea- 
coast would need several shipwrights, rope 
makers, bait shops, and sail makers -in 
addition to shops catering to the rest of the 
population's wants. A farming town on the 
plains would have a wainwright (wagon 
maker), barrelwrights, tool makers, animal 
handlers, and grain storehouses. A commu 
nity that has an abundance of wealthy peo 
ple will have shops that sell expensive 


34 






THE LIFEBLOOD OF THE CITY 



fineries, jewelry, works of art, and silk 
clothing, while a community that has a large 
population of commoners will have several 
shops selling basic household goods. In 
addition, the makeup of the community, 
coupled with its location, will help the DM 
determine what goods are not available. For 
example, a peaceful farming community 
would be unlikely to have an armorer or a 
weaponsmith. And a dwarven mining town 
probably wouldn't have a silk merchant or a 
florist. 


A\ja)iab)i)Ty The 
PC 

In many campaigns, player characters are 
used to walking into the closest town and 
purchasing any weapons they desire - 
while they wait for their armor to be 
repaired. Players expect weapons to be 
available at the prices listed in the game 
books, and some of them even expect to find 
a variety of magic weapons for sale. 

However, not all of those goods and serv 


ices should be available in every city, espe 
cially if you have taken time to create 
commerce systems for the cities you have 
developed. PCs traveling in well-developed 
communities are going to soon learn that 
not everything is available everywhere, 
especially in small communities. PCs walk 
ing into a large village might have to be satis 
fied with going to a local blacksmith to have 
the dents taken out of their armor -and the 
work might not be guaranteed if the black 
smith is only used to making tools and shoe 
ing horses. They might not be able to find 


35 




any decent weapons for sale, and the resi 
dents could laugh at them if they ask to buy 
magic potions. 

Some communities could have a version 
of what the PCs want, such as studded 
leather armor when they are looking for 
chain mail. A farming community would 
have a better chance of having leather 
armor than metal armor because of the live 
stock hides that could be used. 

While initially you might have to deal with 
your players' frustrations in situations such 
as these, in the end the players should get 
more enjoyment out of the campaign. The 
PCs will learn which communities have the 
widest variety of weapons for sale, which 
cities have dealers in magic, and where they 
can get their armor repaired. Shopping for 
the goods and services they need could 
become an adventure in itself, since they 
might have to visit two or three towns to 
take care of all their needs. As the PCs famil 
iarize themselves with your communities, 
they will learn which merchants quarters 
have the best prices and which shop owners 
know the most rumors that could lead to 
adventure. 

If you make detailed maps of your cities, 
you will want to consider where to place the 
merchants. In most cases, a merchants dis 
trict will be near a transportation route so it 
will be convenient to take goods in and out. 
Historically, in several medieval cities busi 
nesses selling similar goods were located 
near each other. For example, in a large 
town there would be a street of butchers, a 
street of potters, a street of dry goods mer 
chants, and so on. 

Gold Pieces awd 
Commow Sewse 

It is up to you to set the prices in the shops 
throughout your cities. Many game systems 
list prices for most of the items player char 
acters typically buy. However, it is impor 
tant that you realize those prices should not 
be viewed as law. And in some cases PCs 
will ask for items that do not have prices 
listed in the game books. When this hap 
pens, you will have to base the price of an 
item on the likely availability of it and the 
estimated value of it compared with other 
goods. 

Prices for goods and services should vary 
between communities, just like they do 
between present-day cities. Many factors 
influence the price of merchandise, such as 


taxes in a city, the economic climate of a city, 
and the availability of goods. For example, 
in a farming town grain and livestock could 
be considerably lower than "book price" 
because grain and livestock are abundant. 
However, in a large mountain village, grain 
could be very expensive, since there are no 
farmers in the community to grow it, and it 
must be brought in by traveling merchants. 
In a seacoast city, fish and products associ 
ated with the sea could be very inexpensive 
because of their availability; however, metal 
goods could be expensive because they have 
to be shipped in. A town located in the mid 
dle of a large plains area, with no other 
towns around for a hundred miles or so, 
might charge higher prices for everything 
because the residents cannot afford to trav 
el elsewhere for better deals. On the other 
hand, two towns located within a few miles 
of each other could have fluctuating prices 
as they compete for area residents' busi 
ness, making many goods less expensive 
than "book price." 

Some communities could charge special 
taxes on certain merchandise, such as 
weapons and armor. Magic items sold in the 
open might have hefty taxes, because the 
city officials know that people who can 
afford to buy magic can also afford to pay 
extra taxes on it. 

Another factor that influences price is 
demand. If residents in a community pur 
chase a lot of a particular item, such as sail 
cloth in a seacoast town, the merchants 
could charge a fair price because the turn 
over of goods is fast and they keep plenty in 
stock. In addition, if there is more than one 
merchant selling the cloth, the buyers (per 
haps seagoing player characters) could 
come out ahead as the merchants compete 
for business. On the other hand, if a player 
character is trying to buy an item for which 
there is little or no demand, such as a suit of 
armor in a farming town, that character 
could be forced to pay a high price. It could 
be considered a rare item, since bringing it 
to the town was costly, and the merchant 
could need to make a considerable profit 
from it because it took up shelf or storage 
space that could have been allocated to oth 
er merchandise. 

The player characters themselves could 
play a role in the cost of goods. A half-elf 
looking for a short sword in a town filled 
with dwarves might have to pay a lot more 
for the item than a dwarf or human want 
ing to buy it. In addition, a PC with bargain 
ing skill or a high Charisma score probably 


could get a better deal than a crude PC who 
has a low Charisma. 

You will have to review all these factors 
and perhaps more when determining 
prices. 

Guilds 

Many fantasy role-players are familiar 
with thieves guilds, fighters guilds, wizards 
guilds, and other such organizations 
because their characters come into contact 
with the guilds as they search for informa 
tion, lodging, or training. But many players 
are unaware that guilds abound throughout 
cities for merchants and craftsmen, and 
they are every bit as important to a commu 
nity as the guilds which deal with character 
professions. 

Not all communities will have guilds. 
Hamlets and small villages will not have 
enough merchants and craftsmen to war 
rant a guild. Any problems that come up 
will be handled by the individual mer 
chants) involved, unless the problems are 
severe, in which case the community's offi 
cials will be called in to help. 

Merchants' and craftsmen's guilds are 
necessary in larger communities, where 
there are several dealers in the same mer 
chandise or several people offering the 
same service. The guild deal with the exter 
nal and internal affairs of their members, 
helping to keep the businesses running 
smoothly and helping to foster good rela 
tions between city officials and the mer 
chants and craftsmen. 

Internally, guilds monitor the wages of 
shop employees, the working conditions; 
and the duration and conditions of 
apprenticeship -if the merchants and 
craftsmen in the guild have apprentices. If 
the guild is dissatisfied with a business's 
practices, such as if the working conditions 
for employees are unbearable, it can fine 
the merchant or impose other penalties. 

Some guilds also monitor the goods their 
member businesses sell. For example, a 
bakers' guild might want to approve the 
ingredients in the merchants' wares. A jew 
elers' guild could inspect the merchants' 
pieces to make sure real gems and precious 
metals are being used. Jewelers caught 
passing off colored glass as gems could be 
fined and their acts publicized to warn 
future customers. 

Guilds also enforce customs, such as clos 
ing shops by a certain time of day or on holi 
days. They also try to prevent monopolies 


36 



by keeping a larger shop from putting its 
competitors out of business or keeping it 
from absorbing smaller shops. In addition, 
they can attempt to regulate the price of 
goods and restrict competition, carefully 
monitoring the shops in the city and some 
times preventing shops from opening if 
they believe those shops would hurt the 
present merchants' business too much. 
Some guilds also exercise political power by 
raising prices, closing shops, or making 
labor unavailable unless laws to benefit the 
guilds are passed, or laws that would hurt 
them are stricken. 

If there are five or more of a particular 
type of business within a city, it is likely 
there is a guild to represent that group of 
merchants or craftsmen. You also can cre 
ate an overall merchants' guild, which over 
sees all of the individual guilds. PCs could be 
forced to deal with these guilds if they 
attempt to set up shops or if they come into 
conflict with some of the merchants and 
craftsmen. 

Maltfwg Shopping 
Reasonable 

Even though you have a well-developed 
merchants quarter, complete with detailed 
businesses and merchants' personalities, 
you should not force PCs to go shopping for 
every little item they need. For example, if 
an upcoming game session is going to center 
on a dungeon expedition, you should not 
play out each character's shopping for rope, 
iron rations, and torches -unless the PCs 
want to go through this. 

Eventually, you will find that once your 
players become interested in cities you will 
not have to force any shopping expeditions; 
the players will initiate them -sometimes at 
nearly every gaming session. 

Adding the 
AdvenXutie 

Hundreds of adventures can spring from 
encounters with merchants and craftsmen. 
Merchants are a source for rumors and 
information. Because they deal with the 
public every day, they know what is going 
on in the various neighborhoods. If a mer 
chant has a politician for a customer, he has 
a way to find about general facts about the 
government's current affairs. If a merchant 
has adventurers for customers, he can 
learn about nearby ruins and dungeons. 


who's hiring mercenaries, and if there are 
monstrous forces about. Some merchants 
could charge PCs for information. However, 
if the PCs are regular customers or do not 
quibble about prices, the merchants could 
provide information for free. 

The merchants themselves can also be a 
source of adventures. For example, a mer 
chant could hire the PCs to escort a valuable 
shipment to or from town because there are 
brigands about. Perhaps some of the mer 
chants have had trouble with thieves and 
want the PCs to find the villains responsible 
for stealing their merchandise. One mer 
chant might hire a PC or two to spy on 
another merchant in an attempt to Ieam his 
business secrets. A few adventures can 
come upon the PCs subtly, such as having a 
PC purchase an item from a merchant and 
later discovering the item is being sought by 
a band of cutthroats. Or a PC could acciden 
tally purchase a cursed item that causes all 
sorts of problems until a way is found to lift 
the curse. 

If the player characters are attempting to 
set up their own business, selling some of 
the merchandise they have been acquiring 
during their dungeon expeditions, they 
could be faced with several adventures: 
underhanded competitors, conflicts with 
guilds, and persistent thieves. The PCs 
could even find themselves involved in con 
flicts between guilds or between a guild and 
the government. 

In addition, PCs traveling between towns 
could develop their own mercantile adven 
tures, going out of their way to find goods to 
transport to the next town they plan to visit. 
Since they are planning on going there any 
way, they might as well make a profit along 
the way. 

Giving them 
ChaizaeXeiz 

Merchants and craftsmen can develop 
into major NPCs that are visited by the play 
er characters anytime they come into the 
city. Sometimes these characters will 
develop as the campaign progresses and the 
PCs find a favorite shop and eventually con 
sider the merchant a good friend. The NPCs' 
personalities will grow the more time the 
player characters spend with them. How 
ever, you might want to establish in advance 
a few detailed NPC merchants with whom 
the PCs can interact and get leads for adven 
tures. To help develop the merchants' per 


sonalities, you can consult the business 
tables (page 38) and ruler tables (page 13) in 
this product, the NPC tables in the Dungeon 
Masters Guide, or you can create your own 
personalities from scratch. 

When a merchant becomes a major NPC, 
he also becomes a ready source for adven 
tures. Such an NPC can readily locate the 
player characters to tell them about adven 
tures brewing. Or, if the NPC gets in trou 
ble, the player characters likely will come to 
his aid. 

The Business Tables 

Although you probably will want to estab 
lish your own merchants quarters and the 
businesses and personalities that populate 
them, the tables on the following page could 
be used to quickly generate businesses or 
could be used to give you a start at develop 
ing entire districts. These tables, which do 
not list all possible businesses, should be 
used primarily for larger communities; 
businesses in smaller communities should 
be hand-picked by you. 

The tables can be used to flesh out a mer 
chants district, but should not be used to 
determine all the businesses in a district. 
Rolling up a district entirely at random 
could result in several soap makers, a sta 
ble, a barrelwright, and little else. For exam 
ple, you should establish for a village a 
blacksmith, an inn, a stable, and perhaps a 
few other businesses based on the major 
industries, location, and population of the 
village. 

Table I is a guideline for the number of 
merchants and craftsmen that a community 
of a certain size could have. Table II lists a 
variety of merchants and professions and 
can be used to randomly generate some 
businesses, as mentioned above. Table III 
can be used to randomly determine the 
quality of the goods, or services, and Table 
IV determines the personality of the shop 
keeper. 


37 




BUSINESS TABLES 


Table I 



Table III 



No. of Merchants 

d 1 0 0 


Community 

Population 

and Shop Owners 

roll 

Quality 

Hamlet 

50- 250 

0- 1 

01-05 

Shoddy 

Village 

200- 500 

1- 3 

06-11 

Poor 

Village, large 

500- 1,000 

3- 10 

12-16 

Poor, but appears fair 

Town, small 

500- 2,000 

4- 20 

17-20 

Poor, but appears good or better 

Town, medium 

2,000- 5,000 

20- 50 

21-30 

Fair 

Town, medium 

5,000- 10,000 

50-100 

31-80 

Good 

Town, large 

10,000- 20,000 

100-150 

81-90 

Very good 

City, small 

15,000- 30,000 

150-250 

91-96 

Excellent 

City, medium 

30,000- 50,000 

200-300 

97-00 

Superior workmanship 

City, medium 

50,000- 75,000 

200-300 



City, large 

75,000-100,000 

300-400 



City, large 

100,000-200,000 

350-500 



Table II: Type of Business 


Table 

IV 

01 Accountant 

35 Engineer 

69 Money Changer 

dlOO 


02 Alchemist 

36 Fabrics 

70 Music Shop 

roll 

Merchant's Disposition 

03 Animal Dealer 

37 Farmers Market 

71 Painter 

01-10 

Sour, gruff 

04 Animal Trainer 

38 Financer/Lender 

72 Perfumer 

11-20 

Quiet and reserved 

05 Apothecary 

39 Fishmonger 

73 Potter 

21-30 

Boisterous 

06 Bait Shop 

40 Fletcher 

74 Rope Maker 

31-40 

Pushy, aggressive 

07 Bakery 

41 Florist 

75 Sage 

41-60 

Friendly 

08 Bank 

42 Forger 

76 Sail Maker 

61-80 

Courteous 

09 Barber 

43 Foundry 

77 Seamstress 

81-90 

Talkative 

10 Barrelwright 

44 Freight Company 

78 Scribe 

91-96 

Suspicious, distrusting 

11 Bathhouse 

45 Furniture Maker 

79 Silversmith 

97-00 

Shifty, dishonest 

12 Beautician 

46 Fortune Teller 

80 Slaughterhouse 



13 Bindery 

47 Furrier 

81 Soap Maker 



14 Book Shop 

48 Gambling House 

82 Stable 

dlOO 


15 Bordello 

49 Gem Cutter 

83 Sword Shop 

roll 

Merchant's Motivation 

16 Bowyer 

50 Glassblower 

84 Tack Shop 

01-10 

Greed 

17 Brass Worker 

51 Goldsmith 

85 Tailor 

11-20 

To support a family 

18 Brewery 

52 Granary 

86 Tannery 

21-30 

Pride in his work 

19 Broom/Brush Maker 

53 Healer 

87 Tavern 

31-40 

Striving for quality 

20 Builder 

54 Herbalist 

88 Taxidermist 

41-60 

Striving for quantity 

21 Butcher 

55 Inn 

89 Thatcher 

61-80 

To support himself 

22 Cabinet Maker 

56 Jeweler 

90 Tinker 

81-90 

Hobby, something to do 

23 Candy Shop 

57 Kiln 

91 Tool Maker 

91-96 

Enjoyment, likes to work 

24 Carpenter 

58 Lamp & Oil Shop 

92 Toy shop 

97-00 

Service, likes to help others 

25 Carpet Maker 

59 Lapidary 

93 Trading Post 



26 Cartographer 

60 Lawyer 

94 Undertaker 



27 Chandler 

61 Leather Worker 

95 Wainwright 



28 Cheese Shop 

62 Limner 

96 Warehouse 



29 Cobbler 

63 Locksmith 

97 Weaver 



30 Cooper 

64 Lumber Dealer 

98 Weaponsmith 



31 Customs House 

65 Magic Shop 

99 Wheelwright 



32 Dagger Shop 

66 Mason 

00 Woodcarver 



33 Dairy 

67 Metalsmith 




34 Distillery 

68 Mill 





38 








- -"5---ET7 

I- & - 




MAKING THE FANTASTIC REAL 


Because fantasy role-playing games are 
filled with magical or mythical creatures, 
places, and events, cities in fantasy cam 
paigns need a touch of the fantastic to make 
them special and appealing to the player 
characters. 

These fantastic elements should not be 
numerous, or necessarily obvious, and they 
should not be present in every community 
in your campaign. As mentioned before, if 
the fantastic becomes commonplace in a 
city, it is no longer special or fantastic. It is 
routine and given little thought by the play 
ers. 

There is basically no limit to what you can 
put in a community to add a touch of magic. 
Because it is magic, or fantastic, there are 
no physical laws that have to be observed. 
In effect, you are limited only by your 
imagination. 

You can use the following objects and situ 
ations in your own cities, or you can use 
them as springboards for ideas. 

Maklwg FT NoTlceabLe 

Some cities have a fantastic element that 
is readily noticeable by any character enter 
ing the city gates. For example, a fantastic 
or magical guardian that does nothing to 
conceal itself is pretty noticeable, such as a 
friendly dragon that sleeps just inside the 
main entrance to the city. 

Other possibilities include a guard force 
mounted on pegasi or flying carpets, a city 
wall that is a shimmering, magical barrier, 
or a stream that surrounds the city and 
flows backwards after the sun goes down. 

These obvious fantastic effects paint a 
magical picture of the city and could serve 
as a lure to player character adventurers. 
They are great fun to describe and could be 
used as foils to get PCs into city adventures. 

Odd IwhabiTawTs 

Perhaps the fantastic element of a city is 
known to the occupants, but is not obvious 
to first-time visitors. 

For example, perhaps a large town is 
home to a wizards' academy, where bud 
ding mages are being schooled in the arts of 
spellcasting. While the academy has been 
an economic boon to the town, because the 
instructors purchase goods in large quanti 
ties from the merchants, it is also a contin 
ual headache. Miscast spells have resulted 
in odd-looking animals wandering the 
street, a miniature mountain springing up 


in the middle of the central park, and unu 
sual and inexplicable weather. PCs visiting 
this town could find themselves in the mid 
dle of a magical experiment gone awry, or 
they could be asked to help get rid of a ter 
rain feature that magically appeared or 
chase down a powerful and dangerous 
housecat that escaped from the academy. 

A feature in town might be something 
other than what it seems. For example, a 
supposedly high-level wizard who had a 
tower constructed on the edge of town is 
avoided by the general populace because 
they fear him. In actuality, the man isn't a 
wizard at all. He's just a wealthy ex 
adventurer with a wand of wonder who 
wanted to build a reputation for himself by 
building a tower similar to one he saw in 
another town. That tower truly was con 
structed by a high-level mage, and the popu 
lace of that town really had a reason to 
avoid him. That tower serves as a gate to 
another plane and sometimes appears to 
fluctuate in size. 

Some people within a community could 
be something other than what they seem, 
and it could take a band of adventurers to 
reveal their true natures. For example, a 
troupe of circus performers actually could 
be a group of monsters polymorphed to 
look like people. After the performance 
they could terrorize the city, then be poly 
morphed back into circus performers and 
leave town, with no one the wiser. 

Shape-changing creatures, which could 
end up with prominent government posi 
tions, also can provide a fantastic element to 
vex the PCs. 

On The SpoT 

The location of a community could pro 
vide the magical quality. If a city is built on a 
piece of ground that serves as the nexus 
between planes or worlds, all manner of 
unusual things could occur and a variety of 
bizarre creatures could appear and disap 
pear with no warning. 

PCs visiting such a community could find 
themselves walking down a city street one 
moment and end up in an alternate Prime 
Material Plane the next. 

Or perhaps this nexus point works as a 
teleporter. Characters adventuring in a 
dungeon hundreds of miles away walk 
through a glowing doorway to find them 
selves in a crowded tavern where the 
patrons have heard nothing of the complex 
the characters were previously in. 


Perhaps the effects of the nexus vary 
throughout the year, with the teleporter 
effect working only during the summer. At 
night the nexus might take on an entirely 
different function. For example, it could 
cause alleys and businesses to magically 
appear. The businesses can be shopped in, 
and the alleys can be walked in, but they 
disappear with the first rays of the sun. 

The Cffy Is The Magic 

You might want to create a city that you 
will not place on your campaign map 
because it moves or only appears every so 
many years or when certain conditions are 
met. 

PCs could come upon such a city by acci 
dent, never realizing its true nature. If the 
city only appears every ten years, and the 
PCs (unknowing of that fact) decide to 
spend the night or several nights there, they 
could emerge to continue their journey - 
only to find that decades have passed and 
their friends and relatives have died of old 
age. 

Maybe the city which magically appears is 
inhabited by spirits from throughout the 
history of the continent. Chatting with the 
residents could gain the PCs a lot of impor 
tant, historical information. But if the PCs 
stay too long, they could become absorbed 
into the spirits' world. 

Magical FeaXuK.es 

Some communities could have a fantastic 
geographical feature that has been there 
for decades, and which the populace cannot 
explain. These features, such as a mighty 
waterfall that originates from a small, clear 
pool, could perplex visiting player charac 
ters and cause them to seek out the origin of 
the feature. The waterfall might be nothing 
more than a decanter of endless water left 
by a forgetful adventurer, but the search 
for the origin could provide an amusing 
adventure for the PCs. 

There are so many possibilities when 
magical or fantastic elements are con 
cerned. And because of the limitless num 
ber, you should create a different element 
each time you want to add something unu 
sual to your campaigns' cities. 


39 








HOW TO USE THE EOLD-UPS 


A new dimension will be added to your 
gaming when you use the building fold-ups 
and street layouts provided with this 
product. Players will get more enjoyment 
out of each playing session in a city, because 
they will be better able to visualize the 
action their characters are involved in. The 
buildings are sturdy enough to support fig 
ures on upper floors or atop roofs, so that 
the action can be truly three-dimensional. 
The fold-ups also introduce the element of 
surprise, because you can hide figures 
inside the buildings - only to be revealed 
after the characters have decided to enter 
the structure to see what's inside. 

Wheize To STakX 

Begin by assembling the buildings accord 
ing to the instructions on the back of the 
fold-up sheets. The fold-ups are designed to 
be collapsible, so they can be stored in the 
box this product came in and easily carried 
to a gaming session. With proper care, they 
will last a long time. 

Before you start trying to use the build 
ings and street layouts, take a few minutes 
to read the rest of this page and get familiar 
with the components. A good way to "break 
in" to using them would he to set up a build 
ing configuration for one of the mini 
adventures in the back of this book, or try 
to simulate the layout of a section of a city 
that's described in some other game 
product you own. 

Future TSR products will include addi 
tional buildings with different designs and 
street layouts. These easily can be added to 
the buildings in this set to create even larger 
and more complex designs. 

Using the Street 

La^ouTs 

Cut each of the large sheets of street lay 
outs into thirds, but don't trim around the 
edges of the grid patterns. (If you do, the 
sheets won't fit together the way they're 
supposed to.) 

For the most part, the street layouts are 
modular; they fit together so that streets 
continue from one sheet onto the sheet 
placed adjacent to it. The biggest exception 
to this is sheet H, which was designed as a 
large courtyard surrounded by buildings 
that are tight against one another, with only 
one entrance leading into the courtyard. If 
you butt any of the other sheets against one 


of the long sides of sheet H, you've created a 
dead-end street that stops when it runs up 
against the adjacent building. 

Each of the twelve layout patterns is iden 
tified by a letter, so that you can refer to any 
combination layout by a simple key and eas 
ily recreate it for a later playing session. 
Simply take a small sheet of scrap paper and 
draw a series of rough rectangles to indi 
cate the way the sheets are oriented. Put a 
letter in the comer of each rectangle, in the 
place that corresponds to the printed letter 
on the sheet itself, to identify which sheet is 
used and how it is aligned with respect to 
the sheets around it. 

When setting out street patterns, be care 
ful not to give away too much information 
to the PCs too soon. Assuming they're not 
airborne, they're seeing the city from 
ground level, so that they won't be able to 
view enormous sections of the community 
at one time. Plan out what street patterns 
you want to use, but don't put them all on 
the table at once. Start with one section, and 
don't add an adjoining one until the charac 
ters move to a spot from where they would 
be able to see farther down the street (into 
the adjacent section). If the PCs do come up 
with a way to view a large area at one time - 
by riding flying mounts or using magic - 
then it would be fair to show them several 
street layouts at once. But you wouldn't 
have to worry about filling all the layouts 
with buildings; since they're viewing the 
structures from a great distance, they 
wouldn't be able to discern any details or 
identify a specific type of building. (In 
effect, all they can see are rooftops.) 

Us)ng the Bultdlngs 

Cities of Mystery contains 33 building 
fold-ups - enough to fill at least two of the 
street layout sheets with single-story struc 
tures. (Sheets J, K, and L contain spaces for 
15 buildings apiece, so even if you fill two of 
those three sheets, you'll still have three 
structures left over.) 

Any building with a flat roof can be used as 
a one-story structure or as a lower floor in a 
multistory building; the structures are stacka 
ble up to three or four stories tall, or perhaps 
even higher. However, taller buildings won't 
have as much stability, especially if you put 
one or more miniature figures an upper 
floor or on the roof of a tall structure. Plat 
forms in an inverted V shape are provided so 
that you can simulate "the positioning of a 
character on top of a peaked roof. 


Instructions for how to fold and assemble 
each basic type of building are printed on 
the back sides of the building sheets (where 
they'll be out of sight after the building is 
put together). You'll find the construction to 
be simple and straightforward -not as an 
insult to your intelligence and dexterity, but 
because the idea is to spend a lot of time 
using the finished buildings instead of tak 
ing a long time to put them together. 

Adding the 

Adventune 

The most important point to remember 
when using these streets and buildings - 
when setting up any kind of city 
adventure -is Plan Ahead. 

If possible, set up at least one street layout 
and put buildings on it before players arrive 
for the session that's about to take place. 
Getting ready ahead of time will enable you 
to "populate" the interiors of buildings with 
miniature figures to represent the monsters 
and NPCs that player characters will 
encounter. As you add new street layouts 
and buildings during the course of an 
adventure, you may have to ask players to 
turn their heads or leave the room so they 
don't see what you put inside the 
buildings -but if you've planned out ahead 
of time exactly what you want to do, the 
playing session will only be disrupted for 
the few seconds it takes you to prepare the 
next section of the city. 

In the same vein, be prepared with 
answers to questions that may come up dur 
ing play concerning details about the physi 
cal environment. If you're using a layout 
sheet that includes walled-in areas, pools, 
paths, or other special features (sheet B, for 
example), decide in advance how high the 
wall is, how deep the pool, how wide the 
path. 

Of course, it's important for a DM to be 
prepared, no matter what kind of adven 
ture the PCs are about to undertake. But in 
some ways, planning ahead is especially 
important before a city adventure, because 
the environment is much more complex 
than a dank dungeon corridor or a vast flat 
plain in the great outdoors. If you make all 
of your decisions ahead of time, you'll be 
able to deal quickly and fairly with the deci 
sions that the players make when the action 
begins. 


40 







sr 







ENCOUNTERS IN THE CITY 



There are three basic areas within a city 
in which encounters can occur: on the 
street, in a building, or in a subterranean 
location. On a street the action can move 
quickly from one place to another - down 
an alley, up the side of a building, across a 
rooftop. In a building the scope of the action 
is limited to the size of the enclosure. 
Encounters in underground places can be 
as widely varied in nature as those places 
themselves. 

Where you want an encounter to happen 
is going to play a large part in determining 
what type of creatures or characters you 
can use. For example,? it is not very likely 
that a player character walking down the 
main street of a city will run into a group of 
trolls. The city guard or army would have 
alerted the populace if monsters were in the 
city and would have immediately tried to 
dispatch the beasts. Of course, there are 
always avenues you can use to cause mon 
ster encounters to occur in the middle of 
the street; in a fantastic universe, nothing is 
impossible. But the key words are "not 
likely" - those types of encounters are not 
likely to occur, and should not occur with 
any sort of regular frequency. You have to 
remember that one of the reasons people 
live in communities is for safety. 

Encounters also must make a modicum of 
sense. For example, creatures which are 
solitary and do not like civilization are not 
going to be found roaming in the midst of a 
large city. And creatures native to a particu 
lar climate wouldn't be found in a city 
located far from where that climate pre 
vails. 

You should examine the creatures 
detailed in the game system you are using 
before setting up city encounters. Many 
fantasy role-playing games, such as the 
D&D(r) game and the AD&D(r) game, have 
city encounter charts and lists of 
creatures - other than humans and 
demihumans - that can be found in cities. 
Some DMs develop their own charts. 

You also can refer to the five city adven 
tures and the adventure ideas presented in 
this product for suggestions on how to use 
creatures and encounters in a city setting. 
And following this section of text, on pages 
44-45, are a set of encounter charts based 
on locations within cities and the time of 
day. 

Encounters should be balanced - some 
friendly, some hostile, some mysterious. Not 
everything or everyone the PCs encounter 
should want to attack them. Using a mix of 


situations and encounters will keep a city 
campaign interesting. 

Ebjcoubfteris ow the 
STrieeT 

Encounters occurring on city streets can 
be a great amount of fun, especially if the 
building fold-ups from this product are 
used. You can lay out a section of street, 
complete with several buildings, and plan 
an encounter or a series of encounters that 
can take the player characters in and 
around buildings, over rooftops, and down 
dark and dangerous alleys. 

When using the fold-ups for encounters, 
you must decide if the NPCs or creatures 
the player characters will encounter are 
familiar with the city. If the NPCs know the 
streets very well, they can lead the player 
characters on a merry chase, putting the 
PCs at a definite disadvantage. However, if 
the NPCs are as new to the city as the PCs 
are, no one has an advantage, and any chase 
that results could be random. And if the PCs 
are more familiar with the city than the 
NPCs, they will have the upper hand and 
could direct the flow of the action. 

The building fold-ups should be used to 


set up elaborate street encounters. For 
example, an encounter with a NPC on a 
main street of the city could lead the PCs 
almost anywhere. If the NPC is a con man or 
a thief, he could coax the player characters 
on some wild pretense into an alley across 
town where an ambush is set up. Or a thief 
who is caught picking a player character's 
pocket could have an escape route carefully 
planned that will take him-and the player 
character - across rooftops and down side 
streets, to a spot where the thief has friends 
who will jump to help him. 

Even if you do not have an elaborate 
street encounter set up, you should con 
sider using the building fold-ups to keep 
your players from predicting the action. If 
you only use the fold-ups when you have an 
extensive and detailed encounter planned, 
the players will be tipped off that something 
is up when you get out the collapsible build 
ings. Using the fold-ups frequently; and for 
a variety of types of encounters, will keep 
the players guessing. 

Street encounters can be simple occur 
rences, such as meeting some of the mer 
chants or other city personalities. These 
encounters can be friendly, casual happen 
ings in which the PCs can leam more about 
the city and the populace. 


41 








r^-v 





¦5? 






ENCOUNTERS IN THE CITY 


Simple street encounters also can be 
much more. A woman selling fruit could be 
a spy trying to gather information about the 
player characters. A person in the uniform 
of a city guardsman could actually be a thief 
who has stolen the outfit and is strolling 
around town picking pockets. There could 
also be people who aren't really people mov 
ing through the streets. 

Other encounters involving humans and 
demihumans can be obviously dangerous, 
such as a gang of muggers or ruffians. 

Still other encounters can involve mon 
sters or creatures loose on the city streets - 
but remember, you'd better have a good 
reason for why the creatures are there. It 
should never be commonplace for strange 
and dangerous creatures to be on the loose 
in a city. Perhaps a ship in the harbor which 
is transporting animals to a zoo could catch 
on fire, and the animals could escape or be 
let loose to keep them from dying. Or, a 
group of adventurers could bring a caged 
monster into town hoping to sell it, but the 
monster is able to break free and subse 
quently wreaks havoc. The city's location 
also can play a part in what kinds of crea 
tures or monsters can be found. An 
anhkheg or other burrowing creature 
could erupt into the center of a city located 
in an arid climate. Or a city on the sea could 
be visited by friendly creatures, such as sea 
elves or selkies, or harmful creatures, such 
as weresharks and sahuagin. 

Some street encounters are dependent on 
the section of town being visited. Player 
characters walking through a good section 
of town, where there are several patrols, 
are not as likely to run into a gang of thieves 
as they would he in a rough section of town. 
PCs along a wharf could run into disgrun 
tled sailors, press gangs, and possibly 
pirates -but those NPCs would not be found 
in the government quarter. 

Further, the time of day will influence the 
type of encounter found on a street. Mer 
chants, businessmen, common citizens, and 
visitors will fill a city's streets from early 
morning to early evening. Late at night 
there are fewer businesses open and fewer 
people on the streets. Player characters 
walking through a city at night might find 
streetwalkers, sailors, other adventurers, 
and local residents on their way to their 
favorite taverns. And in the very early 
morning hours, the city streets might be 
nearly deserted. PCs wandering the city 
streets in the evening or very early in the 
morning present you with opportunities to 


use more hazardous encounters, such as 
vampires, werecreatures, and other 
human-appearing monsters that only come 
out when the sun is down. 

EwcouwTeRs )w 
BvtiL&sigs 

Encounters in buildings are much more 
limited because there is a fixed amount of 
space to work with. "However, there are 
advantages to having encounters in inns, 
businesses, warehouses and other build 
ings within a city. 

NPCs and creatures encountered inside a 
building are probably familiar with the 
structure, and thus can make use of every 
dark corner, piece of furniture, and other 
features of the "terrain" to evade or delay 
the PCs. Thieves encountered in buildings 
may have prepared and set traps in the 
rooms, which can confound and possibly 
harm player characters coming inside. 
Creatures in buildings can hide in the raft 
ers and behind doors, ready to surprise PCs 
who enter unawares. 

Using the building fold-ups for inside 
encounters will help you surprise your 
players and will add a new dimension of fun 
to the game. For example, if the PCs say 
they are following a shady character into a 
run-down inn, you lift up the building fold- 
up and place their figures just inside the 
door, at the same time revealing the crea 
tures or NPCs waiting inside. The fold-ups 
also will help you run building encounters 
more easily, since the players can move 
their miniatures across the floor plan - 
there won't be any arguments about where 
their characters are standing when things 
start to happen. 

Encounters inside buildings, although 
limited because of the fixed space, provide a 
dimension of freedom not available with 
street encounters. For example, monsters 
or magical traps and devices can be hidden 
from the view of the PCs inside a building, 
not becoming evident until after they enter 
the structure. And buildings can be some 
thing other than what they seem. For exam 
ple, a tailor's shop might be the base for one 
of the city's thieves guilds. The front room 
of the building could be filled with bolts of 
material, scissors, thread, and fitting dum 
mies, but the back rooms (which are locked 
and probably trapped) could be filled with 
stolen property and bunks for the theives. 

Buildings filled with local residents also 


can present a fun encounter. Player charac 
ters walking into a tavern could find them 
selves in the midst of a bar fight, where 
bottles of wine are flung through the air 
and chairs and tables are being wielded as 
weapons. 

EwcouwTeRs 

UhJd&rzgrzouK)d> 

The first underground encounter area 
that comes to mind is that part of a city that 
most closely resembles the corridors and 
chambers of a dungeon -the city's sewer 
system. 

It is not unusual for medieval-style cities 
to have some form of sewer system, which 
might have been dug while the city was 
being planned and built, or (if the city is 
especially old) might have been excavated 
after the street layout was in place. Since 
sewer tunnels generally run beneath 
streets, you can use the street layouts in this 
product to simulate the sewer network -or 
you can devise your own system of tunnels 
and chambers, similar to the way you might 
design a unique dungeon. 

Sewers can be the home of giant croco 
diles, monstrous slimes, dangerous pud 
dings, smugglers, thieves, and outcasts of 
the city who have built their own society 
beneath the city streets. 

If you are going to have adventures in the 
sewer, you should take time to populate the 
area -just like you would populate a 
dungeon or castle. Adventuring in a sewer 
system will allow you to use creatures you 
normally couldn't use in the streets and 
buildings above. 

Unless players are anxious to go under 
ground, it may take a little work to get the 
PCs into the sewer. They could be lured 
there while chasing a thief who operates 
out of the sewers. They could be hired by 
the city officials to clean out the sewer sys 
tem (several city workers who were clean 
ing out the sewers have disappeared). They 
could overhear rumors of a smugglers' 
guild operating in the sewers, or they could 
hear someone say that the sewers lead to 
some great underground complex filled 
with monsters and treasure. 

Other kinds of underground adventures 
are possible in a city environment. Perhaps 
there is a city beneath the present city, an 
ancient community that was covered over 
during a great natural disaster, and which 
the PCs hear legends of. The PCs will have 


42 




to comb the present city to get information 
about the ancient complex, and then they 
will have to search to find a way down 
below. Maybe there is a network of tunnels 
(not necessarily sewer tunnels) beneath the 
city, being used as escape routes and hiding 
places by thieves and smugglers. Or maybe 
the tunnels are used by slaves escaping into 
the wilderness. Other possibilities include 
secret labryinths constructed beneath a 
wizards home or a series of chambers that 
were built beneath a warehouse to hold ille 
gal goods. 

The location of a city can provide ideas for 
other types of subterranean encounter 
locations. A city on the sea could have sev 
eral sea caves nearby or beneath it. A city 
built near an abandoned mine could have all 
sorts of tunnels to explore. 

Once you have determined what subter 
ranean places are near or beneath your city, 
you must populate them with creatures and 
NPCs which can interact with or pose a 
threat to the player characters. Catacombs 
beneath a city will not be very interesting if 
they are empty. 

You will need to vary the encounters 
beneath a city or beneath buildings so not 
all of them are hostile. For example, the PCs 
could have fun encountering a community 
of gnomes beneath a city of humans. And if 
the player characters broadcast what they 
find beneath cities, it could affect their well 
being and the state of mind of the populace. 
If city residents learned there were a group 
of horrible monsters living underneath 
them, they might pack up their hags quickly 
and move to another town. Or if the player 
characters spread the news that they found 
thieves in a tunnel under the merchants dis 
trict, they could soon be the target of 
revenge from the thieves guild. 

PutDwg Them All 
Together 

Some encounters could turn into mini 
adventures and could encompass all three 
types of areas, taking the player characters 
from a building encounter, to a chase-scene 
encounter through the city streets - after 
which their quarry drops down a manhole 
and into the sewer system below. Encoun 
ters such as this require a little more plan 
ning and staging, but will be worthwhile for 
the players and you. 


RemembeR)wg the 

Public 

In running encounters in city streets and 
buildings, you need to think about the city 
residents who might he nearby. Adventur 
ing in a city is definitely different from 
adventuring in a dungeon, where the PCs 
might be the only people around. 

PCs who get into a fight in an alley could 
find there is a crowd forming to watch - 
members of which might get hurt if too 
many weapons or magic spells get tossed 
around. PCs could also find common citi 
zens getting into the fray in an attempt to 
help. 

People are curious; if they hear strange 
noises coming from a building, they might 
decide to investigate. This could cause the 
PCs to split their interest, as they must pay 
attention to the creatures or NPCs they are 
fighting, while they must also keep the nosy 
citizens from getting hurt. 

Among the bystanders could be city 
guards and city officials, who are waiting 
for the fight to end so all the participants 
can be charged with causing a disturbance, 
endangering the public, and destruction of 
property. This could plunge the PCs right 
from one encounter into another, and they 
could realize that city officials are some 
times more difficult to handle than mon 
sters. 

Shdpechdsjgerzs ito 
The OTy 

Shapechanging creatures are very useful 
in developing city encounters and adven 
tures. You should examine the creatures 
detailed in the game system you are using 
and list those that have the ability to alter 
their form to look human or near-human. 
There are also avenues to make monsters 
without this natural ability appear as com 
mon citizens. Magic items that allow crea 
tures to polymorph, or spells cast on the 
creatures, will serve to create the desired 
effect. 

There are many ways these creatures can 
he used in a city setting. For example, a dop- 
pleganger could be impersonating a city 
official and having fun creating all sorts of 
unreasonable and unusual laws. Or a mon 
ster that has assumed the form of the mayor 
could be stockpiling the city's taxes as its 
treasure while the public's needs are 
ignored. 


If a group of shapechangers are operating 
together and are impersonating a variety of 
people, the PCs could become very con 
fused trying to figure out who are the 
impostors. 

The PCs may even be the targets of the 
shapechangers; impostors who look just 
like them are robbing merchants, beating 
up city guards, and threatening city 
officials - hoping that the real PCs will be 
caught and prosecuted. 

Usiiog Mdjoiz NPCs 

You also should consider creating major 
NPC villains for your cities which will pro 
vide ongoing encounters. An arch-nemesis, 
especially one who is a prominent and 
respected person in a community, can 
antagonize the PCs anytime they come into 
the community and can be used in encoun 
ters anywhere - in buildings, on the street, 
and beneath the streets and buildings. 

Perhaps the NPCs are responsible for 
some of the encounters the player charac 
ters come across. The arch-nemesis may 
have been guilty of setting the fire on the 
zoo ship, which caused the creatures to be 
loosed on the city. 

If the NPC is a spellcaster, particularly an 
illusionist, the PCs could encounter horrible 
(illusionary) monsters along Main Street or 
have to deal with tavern fires that don't 
really exist. 

You might even want to designate a few 
buildings which are owned by such an NPC, 
and which the PCs will have to adventure 
through before they can confront him. 
Using the building fold-ups for encounters 
with the NPC will help the players visualize 
what is going on and will make it easier for 
you to run the encounter. 

GeTDwg AddffioKidl 
Help 

If you want further ideas or examples for 
city encounters, you should refer to pub 
lished adventure scenarios and articles in 
gaming magazines, and also should pay 
attention to other DMs' campaigns. Fantasy 
and science fiction books are also a good 
source for encounter ideas. 


43 




CITY ENCOUNTER TABLES 


Lower Class Middle Class Upper Class 

Day Night Day Night Day Night 


01 

01 

parade 

01 

01 

parade 

01 

- 

parade 

02-03 

02 

horse race 

02-03 

02 

horse race 

02-04 

01-03 

aristocrat 

04-05 

03-04 

adventurers 

04-06 

03-06 

adventurers 

05-06 

04-05 

adventurers 

06-07 

05-07 

town guards 

07-08 

07-10 

town guards 

07-14 

06-16 

town guards 

08 

08-09 

spy/spies 

09-10 

11-12 

spy/spies 

15-16 

17-18 

spy/spies 

09 

10 

loose animals 

11 

13 

loose animals 

17 

19 

loose animals 

10 

- 

city officials 

12-15 

14 

city officials 

18-21 

20-21 

city officials 

11-12 

11 

laborers 

16-19 

15 

laborers 

22-24 

22-23 

laborers 

13-16 

12-15 

beggars 

20-21 

16-18 

beggars 

25-27 

24-26 

clerics 

17-19 

16-18 

urchins 

22-23 

19-22 

urchins 

28-29 

27-29 

thieves 

20-21 

19 

clerics 

24-25 

23 

clerics 

30-31 

30-31 

fighters 

22-25 

20-25 

thieves 

26-27 

24-28 

thieves 

32-34 

32-34 

knights 

26-27 

26-27 

fighters 

28-30 

29-31 

fighters 

35-36 

35 

haughty men 

28-29 

28-30 

ruffians 

31-33 

32-34 

mages 

- 

36 

drunken men 

30-31 

31-34 

muggers 

34-36 

35-37 

muggers 

37-40 

37-39 

mages 

32 

35-36 

mugging in 
progress 

' 

38-39 

mugging in 
progress 

41 

40 

muggers 

33-34 

37-38 

pickpockets 

37-39 

40-42 

pickpockets 

42 

41 

mugging in 
progress 

35-37 

39-43 

drunks 

40-41 

43-44 

drunks 

43-44 

42-44 

pickpockets 

38 

44-46 

dead body 

42 

45-46 

dead body 

45 

45 

dead body 

39-42 

47 

merchants 

43-50 

47-50 

merchants 

46-50 

46-48 

merchants 

43-44 

48-49 

soldiers 

51-55 

51-56 

soldiers 

51-55 

49-56 

soldiers 

45-46 

- 

construction 

workers 

56-57 

57-58 

construction 

workers 

56-60 

57-60 

construction 

workers 

47-48 

50 

pilgrims 

58-61 

59-60 

pilgrims 

61-63 

61-64 

gossip 

49 

51 

building fire 

62 

61 

building fire 

64 

65 

building fire 

50 

52 

doppleganger 

63-64 

62 

doppleganger 

65 

66 

doppleganger 

51-52 

53 

friendly monster 

65 

63 

friendly monster 

66 

67 

friendly monster 

53-54 

54-55 

dangerous monster 

66 

64 

dangerous monster 

67 

68 

dangerous monster 

- 

56-57 

undead 

- 

65 

undead 

- 

69 

undead 

55-58 

58-61 

dissatisfied 

residents 

67 

66-67 

dissatisfied 

residents 

68-70 

70-72 

haughty 

residents 

59-61 

62-63 

lost child 

68-69 

68-70 

lost child 

71 

73 

lost child 

62-64 

64-66 

escaped 

prisoner 

70-71 

71-72 

escaped 

prisoner 

72-73 

74 

visiting 

nobleman 

65-69 

67-68 

peasants 

72-75 

73 

city rulers 

74-76 

75-76 

city rulers 

70 

69 

fortune teller 

76-77 

74-76 

fortune teller 

77-80 

77-82 

socialite 

71-73 

70-74 

bullies 

78-79 

77-79 

bullies 

81 

83 

pet shop owner 

74-75 

75-76 

giant vermin 

80 

80-81 

giant vermin 

- 

84 

giant vermin 

76 

77 

insect swarm 

81 

82 

unusual animal 

82 

85 

unusual animal 

77 

78 

pack of dogs 

82 

83 

friendly animal 

83 

86 

friendly animal 

78-79 

79 

sports contest 

83-84 

84 

sports contest 

84-88 

87 

sports contest 

80 

80 

circus 

85 

85-86 

circus 

89 

88 

jousting match 

81 

81 

street fair 

86-87 

87 

street fair 

90-91 

89 

reception 

82-85 

82-85 

gypsies 

88 

88-89 

gypsies 

92-93 

90 

minstrels 

86-87 

86 

dwarves 

89-90 

90 

dwarves 

94 

91 

dwarves 

88-89 

87 

gnomes 

91-92 

91 

gnomes 

95 

92 

gnomes 

90-91 

88 

elves 

93-94 

92 

elves 

96 

93 

elves 

92-93 

89 

halflings 

95-97 

93 

halflings 

97 

94 

halflings 

94-95 

90 

fortune teller 

98-99 

94-95 

fortune teller 

98-99 

95 

artists 

96 

91 

werebear 

00 

96 

werebear 

00 

96 

werebear 

97 

92-93 

werewolf 

- 

97 

werewolf 

- 

97 

werewolf 

98 

94-96 

wererat 

- 

98 

wererat 

- 

98 

wererat 

99 

97-98 

weretiger 

- 

99 

weretiger 

- 

99 

weretiger 

00 

99-00 

jackalwere 

- 

00 

jackalwere 

- 

00 

jackalwere 


44 


CITY ENCOUNTER TABLES 

Merchants' District Docks/Wharfs River Banks 

Day Night Day Night Day Night 


01-02 

01-02 

parade 

01-02 

01-03 

feuding captains 

01-02 

01-03 

feuding captains 

03-04 

03-04 

horse race 

03-05 

04-06 

feuding sailors 

03-05 

04-06 

feuding sailors 

05-08 

05-07 

adventurers 

06-09 

07-10 

adventurers 

06-09 

07-10 

adventurers 

09-14 

08-11 

town guards 

10-13 

11-16 

town guards 

10-13 

11-16 

town guards 

15-17 

12-14 

spy/spies 

14-15 

17-18 

spy/spies 

14-16 

17-19 

spy/spies 

18-20 

15-16 

loose animals 

16 

19 

loose animals 

17-18 

20-21 

loose animals 

21-24 

17-18 

city officials 

17-19 

20 

city officials 

19-20 

22-23 

city officials 

25-28 

19-20 

laborers 

20-24 

21-22 

laborers 

21-23 

24-25 

laborers 

29-33 

21-24 

beggars 

25-26 

23 

beggars 

24-25 

26-28 

beggars 

34-37 

25-30 

urchins 

27-28 

24-25 

urchins 

26-29 

29-32 

urchins 

38-40 

31-33 

clerics 

29-30 

26-27 

clerics 

30-31 

33-34 

clerics 

41-44 

34-39 

thieves 

31-34 

28-32 

thieves 

32-37 

35-40 

thieves 

45-47 

40-44 

fighters 

35-37 

33-36 

fighters 

38-39 

41-42 

fighters 

48-49 

45-47 

mages 

38 

37 

mages 

40 

43 

mages 

50-51 

48-50 

muggers 

39-40 

38-40 

muggers 

41 

44 

muggers 

52 

51-52 

mugging in 
progress 

41 

41 

mugging in 
progress 

42 

45 

mugging in 
progress 

53-55 

53-56 

pickpockets 

42-44 

42-46 

pickpockets 

43-44 

46-47 

pickpockets 

56-57 

57-58 

drunks 

45 

47-54 

drunken sailors 

- 

48-49 

drunken sailors 

58 

59-60 

dead body 

46 

55-57 

dead body 

45 

50-51 

dead body 

59-68 

61-70 

merchants 

47-56 

58-59 

merchants 

46-50 

52-57 

merchants 

69-72 

71 

soldiers 

57-58 

60-63 

soldiers 

51-53 

58-59 

soldiers 

73-74 

72 

construction 

workers 

59-60 

64 

boating race 

54-55 

- 

boating race 

75-76 

73 

protestors 

61-64 

65-67 

protestors 

56-57 

- 

protestors 

77 

74 

building fire 

65 

68 

ship fire 

58 

60 

ship fire 

78 

75 

doppleganger 

66-67 

69-70 

doppleganger 

59 

61 

doppleganger 

79 

76 

friendly monster 

68-70 

71-73 

friendly monster 

60-61 

62 

friendly monster 

80 

77 

dangerous monster 

71-72 

74-76 

dangerous monster 

62-63 

63-64 

dangerous monster 

- 

78 

undead 

- 

77-79 

undead 

- 

65-67 

undead 

81-83 

79 

disgruntled 

customers 

73-76 

80-81 

disgruntled 

sailors 

64-69 

68-70 

disgruntled 

laborers 

84-85 

80 

disgruntled 

merchants 

77 

82-83 

stowaway 

70-72 

71-74 

stowaway 

86 

81 

escaped prisoner 

78 

84 

escaped prisoner 

73 

75 

escaped prisoner 

87-88 

82 

peasants 

79-81 

- 

city rulers 

74-76 

76-77 

city rulers 

89 

83 

fortune teller 

82 

85 

visiting royalty 

77 

78 

visiting royalty 

90 

84 

protection racket 

83-84 

86 

bullies 

78 

79-80 

bullies 

- 

85 

giant vermin 

85 

87 

giant vermin 

79 

81-82 

giant vermin 

- 

86 

unusual animal 

86-87 

88 

unusual animal 

80 

83 

unusual animal 

91 

87 

friendly animal 

88 

89 

friendly animal 

81-82 

84 

friendly animal 

92 

88 

street fair 

89-91 

- 

dock fair 

83-85 

85 

river fair 

93 

89 

sale days 

92 

- 

ship sale 

86-87 

- 

boat sale 

94 

90 

witness robbery 

93-94 

90-91 

press gang 

88-89 

86-87 

press gang 

95 

- 

gypsies 

95 

92-94 

pirates 

90-91 

88-89 

rowdy laborers 

96 

91 

dwarves 

96 

- 

dwarves 

92 

90 

dwarves 

97 

92 

gnomes 

97 

- 

gnomes 

93 

91 

gnomes 

98 

93 

elves 

98 

- 

elves 

94-95 

92 

elves 

99 

94 

halflings 

99 

- 

halflings 

96-97 

93 

halflings 

00 

95 

fortune teller 

00 

95 

fishing contest 

98-99 

94 

fishing contest 

- 

96 

werebear 

- 

96 

werebear 

00 

95 

werebear 

- 

97 

werewolf 

- 

97 

werewolf 

- 

96 

werewolf 

- 

98 

wererat 

- 

98 

wererat 

- 

97-98 

wererat 

- 

99 

weretiger 

- 

99 

weretiger 

- 

99 

weretiger 

- 

00 

jackalwere 

- 

00 

jackalwere 

- 

00 

jackalwere 


45 




SAUTER, CITY ON THE SEA 


Sauter, a thriving city of 30,000 people, 
was created using the guidelines presented 
in this product. 


"Personally, 1 think they would have 
been much better off if they had used 
Boliverburg for an example. I mean, Sau 
ter is okay, if you like a city with elves in 
it. And not that there's that many elves, 
but give me a town loaded with earthy- 
minded dwarves and you've got some 
thing pretty spectacular. Hmmm. Maybe 
that's why they didn't want to use 
Boliverburg as an example. Boliverburg 
is just too special. They wanted to give 
you an example of an average city. Okay. 
That being the case, let's go to Sauter." 


This is an outline that can be used to help 
you create your own cities for your cam 
paign, or this description itself can be 
fleshed out and easily added to an existing 
campaign. No maps are provided for Sauter. 
However, you could easily create maps for 
the city and surrounding area. 

Sauter was established on a sloping hill 
that leads to the sea. It has a fairly detailed 
and fascinating history; an oligarchy for a 
government; wise and intelligent rulers 
who are not without their faults; a thriving 
merchants' district; and a promising future. 

SauTerc/s Seasows 

Sauter is built on a slowly sloping hillside 
that reaches to the ocean. A swift-flowing 
river cuts through the hillside on the north 
edge of the city and empties into the sea. 
The city's two major mercantile districts 
rely on water for transportion of the goods; 
one district lies at the foot of the hillside 
near the sea, the other runs nearly parallel 
to the river. 

Because Sauter is located on the northern 
most shore of the continent, its residents 
are exposed to the four seasons. In summer, 
when the population swells slightly because 
of the festivals, temperatures reach into the 
high 80s. However, the summer is short, 
with warm temperatures lasting only two 
and a half to three months. The fall is like 
wise short, but it is considered the most 
beautiful time of year. Artists flock to the 
city during the fall to paint pictures of land 
scapes that they sell in other cities on the 
continent. 

The winters are harsh in Sauter and last 


four or more months. The cold air that 
comes off the sea causes heavy snowfalls, 
sometimes forcing shops to close and ships 
to remain in port for days. Still, trade activi 
ty continues. The river flows too quickly to 
freeze, and the people are a hardy lot not 
likely to be stopped or discouraged because 
of tire bad winter weather. Many of the resi 
dents welcome the cold and find much 
sport in revelling on the snow-covered hill 
side. Residents in the towns to the south are 
amused at and perplexed by the Sauterians' 
behavior. 

Spring begins abruptly in Sauter, and is 
called "The Awakening." It is the time when 
the populace begins preparations for the 
summer's festivals and the farmers spend 
weeks planting fast-growing crops. 

SauteR's GLonious 
Pa$T 

Sauter, City on the Sea, was founded near 
ly three hundred years ago by a half-dozen 
adventurers searching for a lost dwarven 
gold mine. The adventurers were in posses 
sion of a map that supposedly showed the 
location of a mine rumored to have veins of 
gold as thick as a man's arm, and which was 
thought to be located in a cleft of a hillside 
above the sea. Carefully following the map's 
directions, the adventurers traversed the 
continent's northern coast for more than a 
year until they located the stretch of coast 
line that matched the drawing on the map. 
The adventurers spent the next couple of 
years unsuccessfully combing the face of 
the hillside and the sea caves, looking for 
some trace of the gold. 

Throughout that time they lived with a 
handful of fishermen who traded much of 
their catch to passing seagoing merchants 
in exchange for furs and other goods. The 
fishing was very good along this coast 
because the water never got too warm and 
was filled with an abundance of plant life 
that attracted the fish. The adventurers 
became good friends with the fishermen 
and found themselves spending a few hours 
a day helping them catch fish and defending 
them from wandering monsters. And as the 
months wore on and their dreams of a gold 
mine faded, the adventurers realized that 
the real treasure wasn't the mine that might 
or might not exist. The treasure was this 
section of the coastline and the abundant 
sea life attracted to the deep harbor. They 
began to devote the majority of their efforts 


to fishing, using their roping and trapping 
skills to create large nets that brought in 
hundreds of fish a day. 

Merchant ships began to stop regularly to 
trade with the fishermen, and the small 
settlement began to grow. The adventurers 
were appointed the community's leaders, 
since they had the strongest personalities 
and provided the protection. By the time a 
decade passed, the community had reached 
a population of 800 and boasted a shipbuild 
ing industry. A small farming industry also 
started, as farmers who had moved to the 
area developed fast-growing crops that 
could be harvested before the cold weather 
set in. 

The adventurers still found time to spend 
a few days a month searching for the mine, 
and eventually they found it. News of the 
gold spread quickly and attracted more peo 
ple to the village, which was now called Sau 
ter after the adventurers' leader, a tall, 
blond-haired elven ranger who also was 
responsible for finding the gold. Several 
other prospectors struck small veins, but 
none as profitable as the adventurers' mine. 
Still, the small mines produced gold for sev 
eral years and boosted the town's economy. 
The adventurers invested their newfound 
wealth back into the town. Merchants, com 
moners, and adventurers of all races moved 
to the prosperous community, which began 
to geometrically increase in size. The adven 
turers' gold helped support the growth and 
was used to fund public buildings, a court 
house, and an extensive dock system. 

Now the city is the largest on the northern 
coast. Its primary industries are fishing, 
trading, shipping, and a little farming. 
Because there is a river on the city's edge, 
Sauter can transport goods inland, which 
further increases the city's importance. The 
future for the city looks bright, and the 
city's leaders are confident the population 
will continue to grow. It is at peace with its 
neighbors, and its government has served 
as a model for other communities. 

SauTerc/s 

GoveRKimewT 

As the decades continued to pass, the 
adventurers faded from view. All but Sau 
ter died, because they were humans and 
half-elves with limited lifespans. It was 
rumored that Sauter went off into the wil 
derness in search of another gold mine. But 
many of the things the adventurers estab- 


46 





lished remained, such as the strong trading 
industry and the residents' freedom. The 
city, which in its early stages had been ruled 
by a council composed of the adventurers 
and a few merchants, adopted a form of 
government that was a combination of an 
oligarchy and a republic, and which the 
people called the Sauter Triumvirate. All 
landowners were given the power to vote, 
and they elected the three leaders. Under 
this form of government, the leaders each 
served a nine-year term, with the terms 
being staggered three years apart to foster 
stability. Each of the three leaders held 
approximately the same amount of author 
ity, with one being responsible for seagoing 
concerns, another being charged with land- 
based merchant and trade activity, and the 
third being responsible for the military, the 
guard force, and the general welfare of the 
people. 

Together the three established laws and 
set taxes. Because the Sauter voters were 
content with the leaders they chose, they 
only elected a new leader when one of the 
current three died or chose not to seek 
another term of office. In the course of the 
city's history, power has been held by 
humans, elves, half-elves, dwarves, and 
even a halfling. Although the mix of rulers 
might have seemed unusual to outsiders, 
the Sauter residents were pleased, because 
their population was made up of a variety of 
races, and the triumvirate seemed to ensure 
representation for everyone. 

Because of the city's size, several other 
officials are needed to closely monitor oper 
ations throughout Sauter. These officials, 
who number 27, are appointed by the tri 
umvirate to terms ranging from one to 
three years. They are usually reappointed 
when their terms are up -unless their work 
is unsatisfactory or they did something to 
offend or upset a triumvirate member. 

The current triumvirate consists of two 
humans and an aging white-haired elf. The 
elf, one of the major landowners in the city, 
is responsible for the military, the guard 
force, and the general welfare of the peo 
ple. Although the triumvirate seats were 
designed to be equal, the elf tends to hold a 
little more sway. He goes by the name of 
White William, but a few very old elves in 
the community know his real identity and 
keep it their secret. He is Sauter, the leader 
of the adventuring party that founded the 
city. 

White William, a 770-year-old retired 
ranger, is the most charismatic of the three 


leaders and has been on the triumvirate for 
20 years. He is generous to a fault, donating 
his wealth to fund public improvement pro 
jects. He is also open-minded, showing no 
bias based on race, social class, or gender, 
and he is willing to consider a variety of pro 
posals before pushing to adopt laws or 
rescind them. However, perhaps White Wil 
liam's strongest trait is his moodiness. Some 
times the leader broods for days, looking 
out over the sea. Some say White William is 
restless and yearns to travel; others believe 
his age is taking its toll. The other two lead 
ers believe his moodiness is linked to the 
city and the sea, climbing like the surf to an 
emotional peak when the city prospers and 
crashing like a wave to the shore when an 
economic slump strikes. 

White William lives in a small manor 
house, which he commissioned the local 
builders guild to construct to his exact spec 
ifications. Unknown to the Sauter populace, 
the house sits on top of a vein of gold, the 
last remnants of the fabled dwarven mine. 
William takes gold from it when he needs 
money, or when there is not enough gold in 
the city coffers to fund a major public 
improvement. He knows the gold vein will 
not last much longer than another 50 years, 
but he is confident by that time the city will 
not need his financial help. He has willed his 
property and the cavern beneath it to the 
city. White William's life is indeed tied to the 
city. He feels he helped give it life, so he will 
devote the remainder of his life to it. 

Emilia Loring, a 30-year-old human, is the 
newest member of the Sauter Triumvirate, 
having been elected two years ago after the 
death of a half-elf triumvirate member. She 
is only the fourth woman in the city's histo 
ry to hold a triumvirate seat. While Emilia 
claims she was elected because of her wis 
dom and political ideals, many in the popu 
lace claimed they voted for her because the 
other candidates were too liberal-minded. 
She is bold and brassy, traits which have 
helped her lead the land-based merchant 
and trade business into great prosperity, 
but she is also very conservative, not mak 
ing a move until she is certain that all angles 
of a problem have been studied. She spends 
several hours every day meeting with mer 
chants and talking to other cities' officials to 
create new trade agreements. She revels in 
her authority and obviously favors the land- 
owners who put her into power. Still, she is 
fair and even-handed and respected 
throughout the city. Emilia hopes to stay on 
the triumvirate for a very long time. She has 


vowed not to marry, so she can devote all of 
her energy to the city's welfare. However, 
because of her position and her beauty, she 
is probably the most sought-after woman in 
town. While she does not accept the 
advances of the men who frequently ask 
her for dates, she does not refuse their gifts, 
which she enjoys displaying around her 
neck and on her wrists and fingers. 

Tomas Tomathon, a 65-year-old former 
ship captain, is in charge of Sauter's seago 
ing activities. He is the most jovial of the 
three leaders, never having been seen in 
public without a broad smile. He has been a 
member of the Sauter Triumvirate for 38 
years. His outgoing mannerisms have led 
him to be the most popular leader. Although 
he is somewhat domineering when dealing 
with port workers and ship captains, he is 
diplomatic and wise, and always puts the 
needs of the city before his personal goals. 
He has a wife, 10 children, and several 
dozen grandchildren, who he claims to nev 
er see enough of because of the amount of 
time he must spend with the city's govern 
ment. However, frequently several of the 
grandchildren can be found in the govern 
ment building, wandering the halls and pes 
tering the officials and Tom. Although 
White William is in charge of Sauter's army, 
which includes its sea defenses, Tom is 
always consulted when plans for sea patrols 
are being made. 

Each member of the triumvirate is given a 
badge of office - a pendant displaying the 
city seal, which is a magic item that grants 
the wearer an armor class of 3. However, 
White William has other magic items which 
improve his armor class significantly 
beyond that. In addition, each member is 
always accompanied by three bodyguards, 
even at home. This practice was started 
about 100 years ago when an assassination 
attempt was made on a triumvirate mem 
ber. At public functions, especially those 
where the Sauter Triumvirate will be out in 
the open, more guards are present, includ 
ing some disguised as common residents. 

The Sauter Triumvirate's strength lies in 
the diversity of the leaders and the great 
care they take in establishing laws and gov 
erning the populace. Several nearby cities 
have adopted this form of government and 
frequently study Sauter's laws before 
expanding upon their own codes. Emilia 
tends to favor adding more laws to the Sau 
ter hooks, to clarify every aspect of city life. 
White William, on the other hand, would 
prefer the city have fewer laws, to make the 


47 




government seem less stilted. Tom is the bal 
ancing force between the two, and makes 
them consider each proposed law on its 
merits, rather than thinking about the num 
ber of regulations already in existence. 
Some of the appointed government officials 
realize how important Tom's role is in the 
triumvirate and are searching for ways to 
magically extend his life, such as through 
potions of longevity 

However, despite its good reputation, the 
government has a weakness -the voting 
procedure used to put the leaders into 
office. Only landowners are permitted to 
vote, and many of the city's merchants and 
workers rent living space. These people 
give much to the community, but they are 
frustrated because they are given no say in 
the government. A small and quiet move 
ment has begun to reform the government. 
It is in a beginning stage, and the land- 
owners and the Sauter Triumvirate are not 
yet aware what is happening. 

The goal of the current Sauter Triumvi 
rate is to expand the sea trade routes and to 
strike up trade agreements with inland cit 
ies far to the south. In addition, the triumvi 
rate members want to take a portion of the 
profits from these planned ventures and 
upgrade and improve the wharf area. 

The Sauter Triumvirate recognizes all 
neutral and good religions for human and 
demihuman deities. However, because of 
Sauter's location, most of the deities wor 
shiped are associated with the sea, such as 
Poseidon. 

SauteR's Defenses 

The city is surrounded by an earth and 
stone wall on three sides, which was diffi 
cult to construct because of the sloping hill 
side, and is open to the sea on the fourth. 
However, the sea is patrolled by Sauter 
forces and a group of friendly narwhales 
(which White William/Sauter communi 
cates with through speak ivith animals 
spells). 

Sauter has a standing army of 800, which 
is trained, paid, and kept up by city taxes. 
There is no draft in the city, although laws 
allow for one in time of war. Instead, the 
army is composed of young to mature male 
humans, half-elves, dwarves, and a few 
elves, who enlist as a way to make a living. 
They are paid a monthly salary and provid 
ed room and board. The soldiers are sta 
tioned along the city's walls, patrol the coast 


in six warships, and are responsible for 
patrolling the land within a seven-mile radi 
us of the city. In addition, frequently the sol 
diers are used in public works projects and 
are used to complement the city guard 
force. In addition to the army, 250 male Sau 
ter residents make up a volunteer force, 
which trains two to three days each month. 
This force will only be called into action if 
the city is attacked. 

Many residents believe such a large army 
is not necessary for a city Sauter's size, espe 
cially because the city is at peace with all of 
its neighbors. At public meetings they have 
registered their protest of the large army, 
claiming residents' taxes would be lower if 
that many soldiers did not have to be sup 
ported. However, triumvirate members and 
appointed city officials are adamant about a 
strong defense. They contend that one of 
the reasons Sauter remains at peace with its 
neighbors is because of the strong army, 
which serves as a deterrent to war. 

Sauter has a city guard force of 250. 
Unlike the army, the guard force has wom 
en members. Many members of the city 
guard are low-level adventurers who use 
the guard force for something to do and as a 
way to make money between adventures. 
The force also provides them a place to stay 
as part of the employment arrangement. 
The city accommodates the adventurers by 
letting them work in shifts, alternating one 
month on and one month off, or six months 
on and six months off (for those who want 
to plan an extended journey into the wilder 
ness). The city officials believe that the city 
benefits from catering to adventurers in 
this way, because they get guards who are 
more capable than average men and who 
frequently carry magic weapons. 

Unbeknownst to the Sauter citizens; the 
triumvirate also maintains a small network 
of spies who operate in the community and 
in several of the neighboring cities. The 
spies are usually low- to mid-level adventur 
ers who find working for the city leaders 
more profitable than exploring dungeons - 
and sometimes more fun. 

PopuIaT)oM awd 
Nelghborzhoods 

About two-thirds of Sauter's population is 
human. The remaining third is composed of 
(in order of greatest number) half-elves, 
elves, dwarves, and halflings. There are 
three gnome families who live on the edge 


of town, but they are not well thought of 
because of their small number and because 
they play tricks on the city census-takers. 
The races mingle well in Sauter. The city is 
considered a melting pot of sorts because of 
its trade base and its seacoast location. It is 
not uncommon to see dwarves and elves 
dining together. In fact, the largest ship 
building company in the city is jointly 
owned by a wood elf and a dwarf who used 
to adventure together. 

Despite the camaradarie that the popu 
lace tends to enjoy, there are distinctive 
neighborhoods within the city. A neighbor 
hood composed primarily of dwarves is 
located at the top of the hillside, while a 
neighborhood of high elves and wood elves 
lies to the north of the merchant district on 
the river. A neighborhood of halflings is 
located nearly in the middle of the city, 
although when it originated Sauter was 
smaller and the neighborhood was on the 
edge of the city. In addition, there are neigh 
borhoods composed almost entirely of 
humans scattered throughout Sauter, and 
they are further segregated based on the 
wealth of the residents. For example, the 
wealthiest humans live on the southern 
edge of the city. And nearly all the neighbor 
hoods along the coast are primarily human. 
The small neighborhoods in and around the 
merchant districts are composed of a smat 
tering of all races. The mixture came about 
in part because the merchants are of a vari 
ety of races, and all of them want to live 
near their businesses. There is even a neigh 
borhood along the river that is composed of 
adventurers; long-time Sauter residents call 
it the Adventurers Quarter. It is a collection 
of two- and three-story apartment build 
ings, taverns, and small shops that cater pri 
marily to adventurers. 

Most of the buildings in town are made of 
stone and earth; however, many of the 
buildings along the wharf area are made of 
wood. A few of the new city buildings, 
which were designed by a dwarven mason, 
are being constructed of a stiff clay mix 
ture. City officials will have more buildings 
made of this material, which is inexpensive 
to create, if these test buildings hold up 
well. 

Taxes 

Sauter has a rather extensive tax system 
which covers all residents, whether they 
rent homes or own land. Landowners are 
taxed based on the amount of property they 


48 




own, and they are further taxed on the 
number of buildings on the property. All 
residents are taxed 10% of their income. 
This does not sit well with many of the poor 
er residents, who believe the wealthy 
should be taxed much more. 

Resident adventurers are not excluded 
from the tax system. And adventurers who 
live more than 30 days a year in the city are 
considered residents. The city taxes adven 
turers 10% of the value of their property 
and wealth. In addition, they are taxed 50 
gold pieces a year for each permanent mag 
ic item they own. The adventurers' tax 
came into being early in Sauter's history. 
The adventurers who formed the commu 
nity knew how wealthy their peers could 
become by exploring dungeons and raiding 
monster lairs, and they also believed that 
adventurers rarely needed all the wealth 
they accumulated. Sometimes it is difficult 
to tax the adventurers because they are not 
always honest about their wealth and magic 
items, and it is difficult to get them to report 
what they unearth in dungeons and ruins. 

Residents who do not pay their taxes, or 
who cheat and only pay a portion, are sub 
ject to heavy fines and jail terms. Sometimes 
low- to mid-level adventurers, who are 
known to be truthful in paying their own 
taxes, are hired to catch those who refuse to 
comply with the tax laws. 

In addition to the taxes, Sauter officials 
have imposed fees and licenses which also 
generate income for the community. For 
example, all merchants must buy a business 
license, and seagoing merchants must buy 
dock passes. The license fees are not exorbi 
tant, but because of the large trade industry 
they generate a significant amount of 
money. 

SauteR's MeRcbawTs 

The larger of Sauter's two merchant dis 
trict stretches from the wharfs to a few 
blocks up the foot of the hillside. There are 
150 registered merchants in the city, with 
90 of them located in this district. The larg 
est shops deal with sea business, such as tire 
sail makers, shipbuilders, rope makers, and 
metal workers. Other shops rely on the 
merchant ships to support their businesses, 
such as jewelers who purchase pearls, cor 
al, and other valuables from the sea; fish 
mongers, who in turn export some of the 
goods up the river; and the trading post 
dealers, who purchase oddities brought in 
by sailors, such as old statues, and clean 


them up and sell them for high prices. 

Some of the merchants have brought 
fame to Sauter. A dwarven jeweler is known 
throughout the northern half of the conti 
nent for the shell necklaces and rings he 
makes. The dwarf has a knack for selecting 
certain shells, which when etched will 
reflect the light and change colors. A rope 
maker, located in a small building near the 
docks, is renowned for the strong but thin 
ropes he makes, which are in demand by 
merchant ships. And a few of the inns have 
developed marvelous recipes for seafood. 

The Sauter merchants instigated a series 
of summer festivals, which draw people to 
the city and boost sales throughout the mer 
chant districts. Although the city officials 
and guard force find the festivals annoying, 
they realize the festivals are very important 
for the economic well-being of the mer 
chants. When winter hits Sauter, most mer 
chants' business drops dramatically, and the 
extra money they earn from the festivals 
tides them over until good weather returns. 

Cizime AK)d> 
Puw)shmewT 

Despite its large guard force, Sauter has a 
crime rate which bothers the triumvirate 
members and lesser city officials. While the 
number of violent crimes, such as murder 
and kidnapping, is relatively small, there is a 
significant number of thefts, especially 
along the wharfs and near the two mer 
chants districts. 

The city officials realize that the large 
trade industry is a lure to thieves, many of 
whom they believe come in on merchant 
ships, steal goods, and leave on other ships. 
In addition, the officials know that there are 
many thieves in the Adventurers Quarter. 

Part of the problem rests with the city 
officials, who until the past few years did 
not adopt harsh enough laws to deter the 
thieves. In the past, people caught stealing 
were merely fined or thrown in jail for a rel 
atively short time. Now, however, a person 
convicted of stealing for the first time is 
penalized by a lengthy prison sentence with 
no possibility of parole. For a second convic 
tion, the offender has his hand cut off. 
Thieves who establish themselves as habit 
ual offenders -who continue to live a life of 
crime after losing a hand -are put to death. 
However, a few of the best thieves who are 
caught are sometimes put to work for the 
government, such as in the spy network 


under the supervision of more trustworthy 
adventurers. Sauter officials are confident 
that the harsher laws will eventually reduce 
the crime rate. 

Sauter's court system is composed of a 
council of five clerics, who can often deter 
mine the guilt or innocence of the accused 
through detect lie spells. Although the use 
of magic to determine the truth of a matter 
might seem to lead to a lot of open-and-shut 
cases, in fact there are many occasions 
when detect lie does not absolutely estab 
lish guilt or innocence. It is possible for two 
people to tell the truth and still leave an 
issue unresolved; this is where the wisdom 
of the clerics comes into play, because they 
must actually hear the case and judge it on 
its merits. 

Offenses that are punishable by death 
include murder, habitual thievery, brutal 
assault (attempted murder), and treason. 
Except for second-time thievery, all other 
crimes are punished by prison sentences, 
hard labor, or fines. 

/K&vehSTuizes Ini 
S auTeR 

The sea caves that twist and burrow 
beneath the city, the deep forest to the 
north of the city, and the vast ocean where 
the ruins of ancient civilizations are said to 
be buried are all places that beckon to 
adventurers who frequent Sauter. 

In addition, the city's great number of 
merchants, who come from many different 
places, are always a source of rumors and 
tips that could plunge an adventuring party 
into the thick of a mystery or into the 
depths of a dungeon. 

Sometimes the city provides the adven 
ture, as the city officials hire adventurers to 
deal with bands of monsters and creatures 
that lurk nearby. Because the city is located 
on the shore of the ocean, all manner of sea 
creatures -from sahuagin to sharks to 
marine trolls-could slip past the sea patrols 
and the friendly narwhales. 

Sauter is also a starting point for adven 
ture because of the great many ships that 
enter and leave port. There are always cap 
tains looking for new crew members, and 
there are always rumors of adventures 
waiting to happen on the islands miles away 
from the coast. 

There is simply so much potential for 
excitement and fortune in and around Sau 
ter that adventurers can't stay away. 


49 




ADVENTURING IN THE CITY 


The following scenarios are written for 
the AD&D(r) game system, but can easily be 
altered for use with the D&D(r) game or with 
other fantasy role-playing games. All of 
these scenarios are intended to be used 
with the fold-up buildings and street layouts 
included with this product. 


The Maltese Roc, the longest of the sce 
narios, can take several hours of playing 
time. The other scenarios - Ike Likes Spi 
ders and Snakes, A Slave to the Music, The 
Horrible Haunting of Mycky Fynn's, and A 
Grand Illusion -can be used as simple 
encounters that can last an hour, or you can 


flesh them out into adventures that could 
take up an entire evening apiece. Some of 
these scenarios can be used for player char 
acters of any level by simply adjusting the 
level of the non-player characters provided, 
or by adding additional non-player charac 
ters and creatures. 


IKE LIKES SPIDERS AND SNAKES 


This adventure is for 1st and 2nd level 
characters composing a party with total 
experience levels of 6 to 12. 

DM Background: Ike Ingleman likes spi 
ders, snakes, insects, and other small crea 
tures which the majority of the populace 
considers repulsive. Ike, who is a little eccen 
tric, has been collecting these creatures for 
several years. In his one-story shop he keeps 
his prized insect collection, which consists of 
dozens of large, glass-covered wooden boxes 
filled with a variety of dead insects, each 
insect carefully mounted with a small pin 
and labeled. He also has an extensive mount 
ed spider collection, which is kept in a similar 
fashion. On shelves about his shop are dis 
played stuffed frogs, lizards, and snakes, 
which Ike studies and offers for sale 
(although he gets very few takers). Ike also 
sells insects and parts of small creatures to 
help support his habit of collecting. Although 
his customers are few (consisting mainly of 
alchemists and mages who use his goods for 
elixirs, potions, and spell components), they 
pay well. 

A few months ago Ike decided to expand 
his hobby to keeping live insects, spiders, 
snakes, and other creatures. He filled his 
basement with cages, crates, and large glass 
jars and began to pay adventurers to cap 
ture things for him. Of course, the adven 
turers were above collecting normal-sized 
toads and lizards, so they began to bring 
him giant-sized varieties. This delighted Ike, 
and although his savings dwindled his col 
lection of live specimens grew. His base 
ment became filled with giant frogs, killer 
frogs, fire beetles, giant centipedes, giant 
rats, and his favorites - huge spiders and 
constrictor, spitting, and poisonous snakes. 

Ike started bragging to his friends about 
the big spiders he was keeping at his place. 
His friends were repulsed, but children in 
town who heard the stories were intrigued. 


One night a few children crept into Ike's 
basement to make sure that Ike wasn't mak 
ing up tales about his new collection. When 
they found the creatures, one of the bolder 
children thought it would be great fun to let 
the collection loose. Fortunately for the fast 
and dextrous child, he was able to unlatch 
the cages and uncap the jars before the 
creatures realized they were free. The child 
escaped and so, eventually, did Ike's collec 
tion, taking up residence in the surrounding 
buildings and alleys and creating a basis for 
this scenario. 

Setup: This scenario requires the use of 
at least two street layouts, where encoun 
ters will occur along side streets; a 2"-by-3" 
two-story fold-up building to represent Ike's 
place; one additional 2"-by-3" fold-up build 
ing, and two 2"-by-2" buildings that should 
be placed in the general vicinity of Ike's 
place (these will be occupied by the crea 
tures from Ike's collection). To draw the sce 
nario out somewhat and provide for other 
possible encounters along the way, you can 
set up additional street sections and a few 
other buildings so the PCs will have to do a 
little exploring before they find all of the 
creatures. 

How to Get the PCs Involved 

1. The PCs are walking down one of the 
city's streets when they notice a giant centi 
pede run out of a building and down an 
adjacent alley. The incident quickly will be 
followed with sobs and shouts of "Oh, no! 
Not my precious!" coming from inside the 
building (Ike's home). Ike has just realized 
that his entire collection has been let out 
and is in the process of escaping. 

2. Ike and a few of his neighbors, who have 
had their buildings infested with his freed col 
lection, seek the player characters' help in 
cleaning out the buildings. Ike will beg the PCs 


to capture, not kill, the creatures; and he will 
give them nets to use for this purpose. He will 
caution the PCs that some of the creatures are 
poisonous, and will give the party enough 
doses of elixir of health to negate poisoning in 
each of them once. 

Ike's House: PCs entering Ike's house 
will immediately notice his vast collection of 
insects and spiders kept in the wooden 
cases. If Ike is with them, he will expound 
upon the many varieties of insects and crea 
tures he has accumulated. Almost all of the 
creatures on the first floor are dead. How 
ever, PCs looking through Ike's collection of 
taxidermied frogs and snakes will encoun 
ter two spitting cobras lying on a shelf. The 
snakes made a meal of a couple of overly 
large frogs and are resting. They will attack 
if the PCs get within 5' of them or appear 
menacing. 

Spitting snakes (2): AC 5; MV 12; HD 4+2; 
hp 21, 23; #AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA poisonous 
spittle, which can be sprayed up to 30' at a 
single target; THACO 15. 

There are no other living creatures in 
Ike's house. PCs who examine the basement 
will discover all the empty cages, crates, 
and large jars. Many of these containers had 
been painstakingly filled with mud, grasses, 
and small insects by Ike to make his crea 
tures feel at home. If the PCs appear inter 
ested, Ike will explain how difficult it was to 
recreate their natural habitats. He will tell 
the PCs (if they are willing to listen) which 
creatures were in which cages. Crafty play 
ers should take note of Ike's list, so they will 
know precisely what they are up against. 

Ike's list includes the following creatures: 
giant centipedes; awfully long snakes, two of 
which he thinks are overgrown cobras and 
one of which he believes is a constrictor; 
giant frogs; large frogs with teeth (killer 
frogs); real big spiders, which resemble a 


50 




wolf spider; a real, real big spider; oversized 
rats; and big beetles that glow red -he 
believes they are called fire beetles. Ike will 
apologize for not knowing tire precise names 
of the creatures, explaining that he has not 
had them long enough (nor had enough extra 
gold pieces on hand) to be able to contact 
scholars who know about these things. He 
will tell the PCs that if they can return the 
creatures, he is certain he can find the cor 
rect names for their species soon. 

Alley # 1: If the PCs have undertaken this 
adventure during the day, this encounter 
could prove to be the easiest, and might 
make the PCs believe that tackling Ike's col 
lection will be a simple task. Their target in 
this location will be a very large constrictor 
snake, which will be sunning itself in the 
middle of the alley. However, if the PCs have 
undertaken this adventure during the eve 
ning, the snake will be curled up next to 
some trash containers and will be difficult 
to notice. This snake is not aggressive and 
will not make a move to attack the PCs 
unless they approach closer than 5' or 
appear to menace it. 

Constrictor Snake: AC 5; MV 9; HD 6+1; 
hp 33; #AT 2; Dmg Id4/2d4; SA constriction; 
THACO 13. 

Alley #2: This alley has become the new 
home for a dozen giant centipedes, which 
are hiding among stacks of crates. The cen 
tipedes are aggressive and will rush out to 
attack the PCs if they approach the crates. 

Giant Centipedes (12): AC 9; MV 15; HD 14; 
hp 2 each; #AT 1; Dmg nil; SA poison (non- 
fatal); THACO 20. 

Alley #3: Only one member of Ike's col 
lection has wandered into this alley -a hun 
gry giant rat, which has encountered the 
resident of the alley, a bum named George. 
George doesn't have any friends and never 
had any pets, so he has decided to get one of 
each by attempting to befriend the rat. The 
rat isn't especially friendly, but George (who 
is a real pro at scavenging) has been feeding 
it, so it hasn't attacked him. If the PCs enter 
this alley, George will try to hide his rat. If 
the PCs are persistent in checking out the 
area, they will notice George's new friend. 
George will do his best to try to convince the 
PCs that the rat is actually his dog. Spike. 
The rat will try to run away if the PCs are 
aggressive. If the rat does escape, George 
will become belligerent and obnoxious. 


demanding that the PCs pay him for dam 
ages for the loss of his pet. 

Giant Rat: AC 7; MV 12//6; HD 1/2; hp 3; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA disease; THACO 20. 

Building #1: One giant spider and six 
huge spiders have made this place their 
new lair. It is important that you pay atten 
tion to where the players place their figures 
in this building. The spiders will be above 
the PCs, hidden in webs and scuttling about 
in the rafters. The spiders will drop on the 
characters when at least one PC walks to 
the center of the building's main room. It is 
up to you whether all the spiders are in one 
main room or are divided between all the 
building's rooms. However, a party of all 1st 
level characters should not encounter all of 
the spiders at once. 

Giant Spider: AC 4; MV 3 * 12; HD 4+4; hp 
12; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; SA poison; THACO 15. 

Huge Spiders (6): AC 6; MV 18; HD 2+2; 
hp 3, 4, 5, 6, 6, 7; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; SA poison; 
THACO 16. 

The spiders will break off the attack and 
flee if the PCs kill three of the huge spiders 
quickly. 

Main Street: As tire PCs exit Building #1, 
which contained the big spiders, they will 
hear screaming and will see a half-dozen 
commoners being chased down the street 
by five 2y2-foot-long beetles. The common 
ers are staying ahead of the beetles, but it 
should be obvious to the PCs that the com 
moners cannot outdistance them. 

Fire Beetles (5): AC 4; MV 12; HD 1+2; hp 
4, 5, 5, 7, 8; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4; THACO 18. 

Building #2: This has become the hideout 
of a group of giant and killer frogs. PCs who 
examine the outside of the building before 
entering will notice something amiss -two 
windows are broken. The frogs had jumped 
into this building to escape the noise and con 
fusion of the city streets. The giant frogs are 
on the small side, being only 2 feet long. How 
ever, because there are six of them, the two 
killer frogs have left them alone. If the PCs 
enter this building, the two killer frogs will 
attack immediately. The giant frogs are fright 
ened by the city and will only attack if the PCs 
walk toward them. 

Killer Frogs (2): AC 8; MV 6//12; HD 1+4; 
hp 6, 7; #AT 3; Dmg VidA/VidA/ldl+l: 
THACO 18. 


Giant Frogs (6): AC 7; MV 3//9; HD 1; hp 5 
each; #AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA sticky tongue; 
THACO 19. 

Building #3: This building contains a lot 
of foodstuffs, and for that reason has 
become the home of Ike's giant rats. The 
rats are very happy here and will aggres 
sively fight anyone who enters their new 
domain. 

Giant Rats (15): AC 7; MV 12//6; HD Vr, hp 
2 each; #AT 1; Dmg ld3; SA disease; THACO 
20 . 

Finishing the Adventure: It is doubt 
ful the player characters will have been able 
to recapture all of Ike's collection, and likely 
that they will have been forced to kill some 
of the creatures. Deep down Ike realizes 
that some of his pets were bound to die; 
even if the PCs do not capture a single crea 
ture, he will not blame them for what has 
happened, and will give them 15 gp each for 
their help. However, if the PCs were able to 
recapture at least some of his creatures, he 
will be in better spirits and will offer them a 
further reward-three of his wooden boxes 
filled with mounted and identified insects. 
This is a big sacrifice for Ike, as it took him a 
while to accumulate and identify them. If 
the PCs decline this offer, he will not give 
them anything else in its place, and in any 
event the monetary reward will not be 
more than 15 gp apiece because that's all the 
money Ike can spare. The PCs will eventu 
ally benefit if they do take the three boxes 
of insects. Sold to the right buyer, each box 
will bring 110 gp. 

Suggested Street Layouts 


I 


51 





A SLAVE TO THE MUSIC 


This scenario is intended for three to six 
player characters of 2nd through 4th levels, 
composing a party with total levels of 9 to 
14. 

DM Background: Ahrnal, a retired 
thief, is a merchant who sells carved wood 
en furniture, figurines, bowls, and wooden 
flutes in his rented shop. He has been at this 
work for nearly a decade, choosing it over 
his former profession because he was 
caught once too often and spent a few too 
many years in prison. His dextrous hands 
quickly turn out his wooden wares, gaining 
him a passable income, but not netting him 
enough to buy his own shop in a better sec 
tion of the city. His wooden flutes were 
sought after only by commoners who did 
not have enough money to buy fine, well- 
made instruments. Ahmal feared he would 
never attain the fame and wealth he so des 
perately wanted and believed he deserved. 

However, all of that changed a few 
months ago when Ahmal accepted a book 
about djinn and efreet from a customer in 
trade for a chair. The book explained how 
djinn can create soft wood and wooden 
items magically. The book caused Ahmal to 
become obsessed with getting a djinni. He 
spent all of his money, traded a few of the 
magic items he had been hoarding from his 
past thieving career, and borrowed 2,000 
gold pieces from an unscrupulous lender 
(jeopardizing his business and his life) to 
obtain a luck blade. With the wishes the 
blade contained, he learned the location of a 
djinni and how to enslave it. Under the pre 
tense of making a trading trip, Ahmal 
accomplished his task. And shortly after his 
return, his business picked up. Ahmal's 
djinni-sculpted furniture, figurines, and 
flutes are now in demand and command 
high prices, although the customers con 
tinue to believe that Ahmal is the craftsman. 
And his flutes have become sought after by 
professional musicians throughout the 
area. Ahmal has not shared the secret of his 
djinni with anyone. 

Neighboring merchants are suspicious of 
the sudden improved quality in Ahmal's 
goods. However, the retired thief contends 
the change came about because he learned 
a few new carving techniques on his last 
trading expedition. Because of the suspi 
cion, and Ahmal's usually suspicious nature, 
he is very careful in protecting his 
livelihood -the djinni -and has relied on the 
skills from his former profession to set up 
elaborate traps in his shop to keep thieves 


and competitors from learning his secret 
and stealing the djinni. 

Ahmal is nervously happy with his situa 
tion. He is confident that he will have 
enough money soon to pay back his loan, 
and within several months after that he 
hopes to have enough to buy his own large 
shop in the best section of the city. He has 
promised to the djinni that it will be 
released when his dream of a large shop 
and a very prosperous business is realized - 
hoping that this incentive will spur the djin 
ni to continue producing items of 
unequaled quality, so as to hasten the day 
when it receives its freedom again. How 
ever, Ahmal actually has no intention of 
releasing the djinni, which he keeps in a 
specially magicked box. 

To complicate the situation just before the 
player characters enter the picture, Rourk, 
the loan shark whom Ahmal borrowed 
money from, is curious about the mer 
chant's improved business and has decided 
he wants his money paid back now - and 
with a higher interest rate than previously 
agreed on. 

Setup: You will need a two-story, 2"-by- 
3" building fold-up to serve as Ahmal's shop 
and living quarters. Construct a handmade 
paper map of the building you select for 
your own reference, so you can mark 
where and what kinds of traps are placed 
inside and outside. In addition, you will 
need to set up several buildings of varying 
sixes nearby, spread across three or four 
street layout sheets to accommodate a chase 
scene. Create as many traps as feasible for 
Ahmal's building. However, be careful not 
to put them where customers normally 
would walk. Ahmal would not want to draw 
suspicion on himself by having an ordinary 
customer break his leg in a pit trap. Suggest 
ed traps include a trapdoor/pit trap, the bot 
tom of which is coated with sleep poison 
(save vs. poison or be knocked unconscious 
for ld8 turns); a thin but strong wire that 
when tripped causes a net or cage to fall 
down around the intruder; or a pressure- 
sensitive floorboard, which when stepped 
upon causes darts or daggers to be pro 
pelled at an intruder from a hidden panel in 
the wall. 

How to Get the PCs Involved 

1. The PCs are hired by Rourk to collect 
the money Ahmal owes him. Rourk tells the 
PCs that Ahmal is long overdue in paying 


him back 3,000 gp (actually, Ahmal bor 
rowed 2,000 and agreed to a 500 gp interest 
charge). Rourk says he will pay the PCs 200 
gp if they can collect on the loan, and prom 
ises (untruthfully) that he will hire them for 
other collections if they are successful. He 
warns the PCs that Ahmal has a shady 
past-he knows that Ahmal has served time 
in prison for thievery -and likely will try to 
weasel his way out of paying the loan or will 
lie to the PCs. 

2. A wealthy but jealous merchant hires 
the PCs to purchase some of Ahmal's best 
carved pieces. The merchant is upset with 
Ahmal's upswing in business and wants to 
carefully examine some of Ahmal's pieces so 
that he can reproduce them or somehow 
prove Ahmal stole them from somewhere 
and is reselling them. 

3. The PCs are walking through the mar 
ketplace when they notice a crowd around 
a woodcarver's shop. If they investigate 
they will see the proprietor, Ahmal, show 
ing off his latest creations and describing 
how painstakingly difficult it was for him to 
get the curved surfaces so smooth and 
shiny. The PCs also will notice a few dis 
gruntled neighboring merchants looking 
on. 

4. A merchant who deals only in musical 
instruments is suspicious of Ahmal's flutes. 
He knows the retired thief is no musician 
and hires the PCs to find out who is produc 
ing the instruments or from whom Ahmal 
stole the instruments. 

At the first opportunity the PCs take to 
closely examine one of Ahmal's pieces of 
merchandise, you can give the PCs a clue (if 
you so desire). Have the examining charac 
ter (or one of them, chosen at random) 
notice small scratches on the piece in an 
innocuous place that seem to spell out 
words. On the bottom of the base of a figu 
rine, for instance, will be the words "help 
me." Further investigation of pieces will 
reveal words such as "prisoner" and "slave," 
scratched just inside the opening of a flute 
or seeming to be part of the decorative etch 
ing on the outer surface. The words are 
very difficult to read, and it might be very 
hard to convince a disinterested party that 
the scratches are nothing more than 
scratches. If Ahmal is confronted about the 
words, he will say the PCs are imagining 
things. Those scrawls are not words, he will 
contend. They are simply part of the deco 
ration, or (if in a place not normally visible) 


52 



A SLAVE TO THE MUSIC 


small scratch marks caused by the equip 
ment he uses to hold a piece of wood in 
place while he carves it. If he gets a chance 
to do so out of sight of the PCs, he will gouge 
at the marks with one of his woodworking 
tools to blot out the words. If the PCs move 
away from the shop, Ahmal will begin 
checking all of his wooden items and remov 
ing from his shelves any pieces with scrawl 
ed words on the bottom or in some other 
out-of-the-way place. 

The scenario's action eventually will take 
the PCs farther inside the building, past the 
shop portion, where they must contend 
with whatever devious traps you have set 
up. Ahmal, who can freely move about the 
building because he knows where all the 
traps are, will move to the back of the build 
ing, attempt to lure the PCs through his 
traps, grab the small brass magic box hold 
ing the djinni, and try to escape. You should 
mn the action of this scenario so that Ahmal 
can lead the PCs on a chase from building to 
building, through alleys and side streets, 
and across rooftops, relying on all his thief 
abilities and his boots of striding and spring 
ing. Ahmal is very familiar with this portion 
of the city, so he will be able to run down 
dead-end alleys, using his boots to vault 
over fences and to propel him to rooftops. 
You might want to choreograph the chase 
scene in advance. A well-planned out chase 
scene will allow you to use several buildings 
and street plans. 

Variation: If the PCs were not hired by 
Rourk, they could also encounter Rourk 
and his men, who are trying to catch Ahmal 
and who may end up fighting the PCs to pre 
vent them from getting the box coveted by 
the little thief. 

Cast of Characters 

Ahmal: 10th level human thief. 

Str 12, Int 16, Wis 10, Dex 18, Con 13, Cha 
9. Hit points 39, Alignment CN, AC 4 (front), 
8 (rear); THACO 16. 

Thieving abilities: PP 70, OL 70, RT 75, MS 
70, HS 60, DN 25, CW 95, RL 35. 

Ahmal is wearing or carrying a ring of 
protection +2, boots of striding and spring 
ing, a bag of caltrops (to slow pursuers), a 
bag of marbles (to trip pursuers), a sap, a 
short sword +1 (the luck blade), three dag 
gers, 6 pp, 12 gp, and 8 sp. Hidden in his 
shop is a chest containing 540 gp and 2,300 
sp (which he was accumulating in case he 
was forced to pay back his loan). 

Ahmal is greedy, but not evil. He will try to 


avoid killing anyone. If possible, he will flee 
rather than fight. However, he will fight if 
provoked. His most valued item is the djinni 
trapped in the small magic box. If he thinks 
the PCs are getting too close during a chase, 
he will stash the box someplace, try to lose 
the PCs, and come back later to get it. If 
Ahmal is caught with the box, and the PCs 
discover what is inside, Ahmal will plead 
with them, explaining about the loan shark 
and his need to keep the djinni so he can 
raise enough gold to pay off his loan. He will 
use all the trickery he can muster to keep 
the djinni and the gold and silver he has hid 
den in his shop. 

Since Ahmal has worked as a merchant 
for several years in this city, he is generally 
considered a solid citizen. And because of 
that, the PCs could get themselves in trou 
ble if they handle this situation poorly. If the 
PCs steal the gold and silver in his shop or 
break any of his wares, Ahmal will report 
them to the city guards. If the PCs forcibly 
take the djinni box from Ahmal with wit 
nesses present, Ahmal will report them to 
the authorities and ask for a trial. Ahmal 
has done nothing illegal according to the 
city's laws. 

Noonjab, the djinni: AC 4; MV 9/24; HD 
7+3; h P 36; #AT 1; Drng 2d8; AL CG; THACO 
13. 

The djinni will be very grateful to the PCs 
if they release him. This is not a noble djin 
ni; therefore, he cannot grant wishes. How 
ever, he will offer to appear before the PCs 
the next time they are in need of aid and will 
offer to make for each of them one of his 
wondrous flutes. These flutes will be of 
even higher quality than the ones he made 
for Ahmal's shop. Each flute will be worth 
250 gp. 

Rourk, the loan shark: 4th level human 
fighter; AC 7 (leather and Dex bonus); MV 
12"; HD 4; hp 28; #AT 1; Drng ld8 (long 
sword) or ld4 (dagger); AL CN; THACO 17. 

Rourk is a devious and greedy man whose 
sole ambition is to make more money. He 
has a ratlike visage with beady eyes and a 
long nose. Despite his mannerisms, Rourk 
should not be considered evil and does 
nothing that is overtly illegal. He is smart 
enough to order his bullies not to harass 
people in public and not to beat up on delin 
quent borrowers if there is someone watch 
ing. 

Rourk employs five 1st level fighters as 
bully boys. They are AC 5 (chain mail); MV 
9; HD 1; hp 6, 7, 9; #AT 1; Drng ld8; AL N; 


THACO 20. 

These fighters are loyal to Rourk, 
although they occasionally acquire a few 
gold pieces on their own from Rourk's cus 
tomers through their bullying tactics. They 
dress in clothing of dark brown and gray 
and look unkempt. Their sinister and slov 
enly appearance helps to keep borrowers in 
line. 

Suggested Street Layouts 




r 


53 










THE HORRIBLE HAUNTING OF MYCKY FYNN'S 



This scenario is designed for up to six 
player characters of 2nd through 7th levels. 

DM Background: Mycky Fynn's is a 
bustling establishment located on the 
wharfs. Its customers include adventurers 
passing through town, sailors who have a 
few hours to spend before their ships leave, 
and town residents who enjoy the atmos 
phere and like to watch the sailors and 
adventurers clash in brash discussions 
fueled by tankards of ale. Its customers are 
also a brave and curious lot, as night after 
night they continue to return to the 
tavern- even though it is haunted by a very 
persistent and unpredictable "ghost." None 
of the customers know why the ghost 
appeared, although they speculate that a 
ship brought the spirit in. 

The establishment consists of a large tav 
ern area on the first floor, which includes a 
stage and a few gambling tables, and several 
rooms upstairs, which the owner, Mychael 
Fynnygyn, rents to adventurers for a few 
silver pieces a night. Fynnygyn, a retired 
fighter, lives in one of the rooms upstairs. 
The three newest residents of the 
establishment - formerly destitute 
leprechauns - live downstairs behind a 
wine rack. The leprechauns, which have 
fabricated a ghost, are the cause of the hor 
rible haunting and the subject of this sce 
nario: 

About a month ago, the leprechauns were 
tricked out of the majority of their treasure 
by a band of high-powered adventurers. 
Uncharacteristically saddened by their 
state of near-poverty (all they had left were 
a jar of Nolzur's marvelous pigments and a 
ring of spell storing), the trio wandered into 
town looking for a way to drown their sor 
rows. They quickly came upon Mycky 
Fynn's and overheard a group of adventur 
ers talking about a dungeon they visited 
which was populated by a variety of 
undead. The leprechauns intently listened 
to the descriptions of the undead and the 
behavior the foul creatures exhibited, and 
they decided it would be great fun to 
"haunt" this tavern and the remains of the 
burned-down shop next door. 

Their haunting techniques, which are 
detailed under the "Mycky Fynn's" and "The 
Ghost" sections below, have had mixed 
results. The ghost they created has scared 
away a few of the regulars, has kept super 
stitious sailors at bay, and continues to frus 
trate the city's clerics, who can only seem to 
"turn" the ghost for a few moments. How- 


fever, overall the ghost has increased busi 
ness at Mycky Fynn's, as adventurers and 
several brave locals come every night to 
watch the spectacle and make bets on what 
the ghost will do next. 

To complicate matters. Old Pete, the own 
er of a small tavern a few doors down, has 
decided to procure his own undead in the 
hope of increasing his business. He hired a 
cleric of non-good alignment to bring in sev 
eral skeletons and zombies. The undead 
were directed to gyrate in a corner when 
music was playing. All was going well until a 
drunken sailor put his fingers in a skeleton's 
eye socket. The undead attacked, seriously 
injuring the sailor and resulting in the clos 
ing of Old Pete's Place. 

Setup: This scenario requires the use of a 
2"-by-3" two-story building fold-up to rep 
resent Mycky Fynn's, a 2"-by-2" two-story 
building to represent Old Pete's Place, and a 
variety of one- and two-story buildings to 
represent the burned-down store next to 
Mycky Fynn's. The leprechauns use their 
illusions to make this burned-down building 
appear different each time people enter its 
remains. For example, the first time PCs 
enter it, the building may appear on the 
inside to be a very large, once elegant estab 
lishment. The next time it could seem to be a 
one-story cramped business. This will give 
you an opportunity to use a variety of build 
ings that come with this set. 

When using a two-story building to repre 
sent Mycky Fynn's and any building to rep 
resent the illusion-generated building next 
door, it is important to note where players 
place their miniatures. You must keep track 
of where the leprechauns are in relation to 
the miniatures. Certain illusions might not 
he noticed by some of the player characters, 
depending on where their miniatures are 
placed. 

How to Get the PCs Involved 

1. The PCs are passing through town and 
decide to stop at a tavern. The tavern just 
happens to be Mycky Fynn's. 

2. If the PCs have a cleric in the group, 
that cleric is approached by representatives 
of the character's temple and told about the 
horrible haunting of Mycky Fynn's and the 
undead problem at Old Fete's Place. The 
cleric is asked to do something about the sit 
uation. 

3. The PCs hear rumors about a friendly 
ghost at a local tavern and about skeletons 


and zombies at a smaller tavern nearby 
which are not so amiable. 

Mycky Fynn's: If the PCs visit the tavern 
in the evening, it will be crowded with sail 
ors, adventurers, and townsfolk. However, 
the NPC adventurers should not be higher 
than 2nd level or they could potentially out 
shine the player characters. 

Illusions within the tavern consist primar 
ily of the ghost, in the form of a beautiful 
woman who looks strikingly like the woman 
in the painting above the bar. She puts on a 
floor show on the establishment's stage eve 
ry night. The female in the group of lepre 
chauns will use her ventriloquism to make 
the ghost sing and tell jokes. The ghost will 
assume a horrid visage to customers who 
insult her or clerics who try to "turn" her. 
However, the leprechauns are not stupid. 
They will let clerical turning work once in a 
while to help maintain the ruse that this is a 
real ghost. A successful turning attempt will 
keep the ghost away for at least a half-hour 
(while the leprechauns, to keep from get 
ting bored, might steal drinks and coins 
from patrons) and will upset the customers, 
who have grown accustomed to seeing the 
beautiful spirit. 

To simulate tricks that the ghost might 
play, the leprechauns use their invisibility to 
make drinks move from one end of the bar 
to the other. With their polymorph ability, 
they will make the woman in the painting 
appear to change clothes and hair styles. 

The Ghost: The ghost appears every 
night from 7 to 11 p.m., taking breaks when 
the leprechauns get tired or have too much 
to drink. The ghost has never attacked a 
customer, although it once frightened away 
patrons who became too loud and obnox 
ious and a cleric who kept trying to turn it. 
The ghost was able to frighten the patrons 
because of the leprechauns' ring of spell 
storing, which contains several fear spells. 
Player characters asking about those who 
were frightened by the ghost will learn that 
the ghost was very kind, because it did not 
age those people. 

Sometimes the ghost can be seen material 
izing right out of the painting above the bar, 
floating around the room, and coming to 
rest on the stage. At other times, the ghost 
wanders from table to table, sitting on the 
laps of the best-looking patrons and asking 
for their drinks. The drinks are consumed 
by the invisible leprechauns. 

When 11 p.m. approaches, or earlier if 


54 




the leprechauns are especially tired or 
bored, the ghost will ascend the stairs, 
yawning, and wave good night to the cus 
tomers and Mychael Fynnygyn. 

Burned-down Building: This is the 
remains of a small general store that caught 
fire two weeks ago. There were rumors the 
ghost had something to do with it. So the 
leprechauns, not wanting a good opportuni 
ty to pass them by, began to "haunt" it, too. 
Using a portion of their Nolzur's marvelous 
pigments, the leprechauns one night paint 
ed a fancy wooden door, which was the only 
standing object in the building. Angry at 


what he thought the ghost had done, the 
owner of the property tore the door down, 
only to find a larger, fancier door in its place 
the next day. This door has remained, and 
the building's ruins have become a bit of an 
oddity. One of the leprechauns usually is 
stationed here, waiting for an unsuspecting 
person to come near. Using ventriloquism, 
the leprechaun lures the visitor into the 
building, which the leprechaun turns into 
an elegant manor, a bawdy inn, a stable 
complete with talking (by ventriloquism) 
horses, or the general store as it appeared 
before the fire. The leprechauns, of course, 
had nothing to do with the building burn 


ing. You can use as many of the buildings in 
this set as you want to represent the 
burned-down building which is covered up 
by the leprechauns' illusions. Please keep in 
mind that PCs going upstairs in an illusion 
generated building will only think they are 
going upstairs. The leprechaun or lepre 
chauns present will alter the illusion to 
make the PCs think they are on another 
floor. There is actually nothing of interest in 
the building's burned ruins, although a 
crafty DM can occupy quite a bit of the play 
ers' time with the illusionary buildings. If 
the PCs spend a considerable amount of 
time here, have a second leprechaun join 


55 





the action, and feel free to have the ghost 
from the tavern stop by for a brief visit. 

Old Pete's Place: This small two-story 
building has been boarded up. There is not 
a window or door visible because of the 
numerous, thick boards and table tops 
nailed in place. 

Pete, who frequently can be found in a 
stupor at Mycky Fynn's these days, hired a 
cleric to bring in eight skeletons and six 
zombies in an attempt to increase his busi 
ness. It worked for a few days, until a sailor 
bothered one of the skeletons. When the 
undead attacked, the adventurers in the 
tavern began grabbing tables, chairs, and 
loose floorboards, which they used to board 
up the building. The eight skeletons and six 
zombies remain inside. 

If the player characters ask about the 
boarded-up building or meet Pete inside 
Mycky Fynn's, they will be told the pathetic 
story of Pete's attempt to increase business. 
If the player characters seem sympathetic, 
Pete will ask them to take care of the skele 
tons and zombies. He cannot pay them for 
the task, since he spent most of his savings 
getting the undead and the remainder of his 
savings drinking at Mycky Fynn's to forget 
the undead. 

You can place the skeletons and zombies 
anywhere within Old Pete's Place. This 
encounter will pose little problem to low- 
level adventurers and will be easy for mid 
level adventurers. However, if the player 
characters deal with the undead at Pete's, a 
few residents who don't care for the ghost 
at Mycky Fynn's and a few clerics who 
couldn't turn the ghost will ask the PCs to 
handle that undead menace. 

There should be little of value inside Old 
Pete's Place, as bottles, tables, and chairs 
were broken by the undead. However, you 
may feel free to add Pete's cash box, which 
should not contain more than 100 gp. If the 
PCs take his cash box, Pete will be very 
upset but will not press the matter since he 
was able to get rid of the skeletons and zom 
bies. 

Skeletons (8): AC 7; MV 12; HD 1; hp 5 
each; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; THACO 19. 

Zombies (6): AC 8; MV 6 HD 2; hp 10 each; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8; THACO 16. 

Cast of Characters 

Mychael Fynnygyn: 5th level human fight 
er; AC 8 (Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 5; hp 31; 


#AT 1: Dmg ld8 + 2 (long sword +2); 
THACO 16 (14 with sword). 

Mychael, or Mycky as his regulars call 
him, is an easygoing, pleasant man with 
broad shoulders and an even broader smile. 
He is a well-to-do businessman who has 
been running this tavern for nearly five 
years. He treats all of his customers cordial 
ly. He especially enjoys talking to adventur 
ers and listening to tales of their exploits. 
Mycky has never had a problem with 
ghosts before, and he doesn't really con 
sider this ghost a problem. The ghost has 
not harmed any of the customers, although 
it has scared a few of them away. The ghost 
has been good for business and is pleasing 
to look at. However, Mycky is concerned 
about the burned-out building next door. He 
hopes his ghost had nothing to do with it. 

Mycky has given up his career as a fight 
er; however, he still exercises to keep in 
good shape. He does not wear armor or 
bracers. Mycky has a long sword +2 which 
he keeps behind the bar. 

The leprechauns (Sherry, O'Tule, and 
O'Leerie): AC 8; MV 15; HD ld4 + 1 hit 
points; hp 4 each; #AT 0; Dmg nil; MR 80%. 

Special abilities: become invisible at will, 
polymorph non-living objects, create illu 
sions, ventriloquism. 

Sherry provides the voice for the ghost.. 
O'Tule, who has the ring of spell storing, 
usually fashions the ghost with his illusions. 
O'Leerie is responsible for keeping the 
burned-down building next door haunted. 

Their current treasure consists of the 
ring of spell storing (which has 3 charges 
remaining, all of them fear spells), a half-full 
jar of Nolzur's marvelous pigments, 210 gp; 
300 sp, 100 cp, and a silver and pearl ring 
worth 800 gp. 

If the player characters catch the lepre 
chauns and attempt to get their treasure, 
one of the leprechauns will try to paint a 
small pile of gems with the remainder of the 
pigments in an attempt to pass that off as 
the treasure. The leprechauns will not want 
to leave the tavern, since it has become a 
continual source of amusement, wine, and 
gold pieces for them. 

Mychael Fynnygyn will be very upset to 
leam it wasn't really a good-natured ghost 
that was living in his tavern. However, 
depending on the outcome of the adven 
ture, Fynnygyn could ask the leprechauns 
to stay -to help his business. 


Suggested Street Layouts 



56 




A GRAND ILLUSION 


This adventure is designed for four to six 
player characters ranging in levels from 
2nd through 6th, composing a party with 
total levels of 9 to 14. 

DM Background: A strange and horri 
ble new creature has descended upon the 
town. It hides in alleys, behind businesses, 
and emerges from the shadows to threaten 
those who are alone or who are in numbers 
too small to pose it any threat. The leader 
ship of the town is terrified that the crea 
ture will cause some of the residents to 
move to another city and will keep traders 
away if news of the attacks leaks out. The 
creature has been able to elude the city 
guard and several bands of townsfolk who 
joined forces to try to put a stop to the foul 
thing. 

But unbeknownst to the populace, the 
creature isn't real. It is the fabrication of 
Elisha, a mage, and Thomoth, an illusionist. 
Elisha and Thomoth are the only surviving 
members of an adventuring party which 
used to travel in the lands north of the city. 
The two chaotic neutral adventurers, who 
were barely able to drag themselves out of a 
dragon's lair-leaving their dead comrades 
behind - decided it would be safer and eas 
ier to make a living in town. However, Elisha 
and Thomoth were not interested in work 
ing for their gold, at least not working in the 
sense of doing physical labor or putting in 
hours behind a store counter. The two 
decided to earn their wealth by using 
deception and magic. 

Thomoth "created" a horrible dragon, 
which was the compilation of all the crea 
tures they had seen in their last fateful out 
ing with their adventuring band. The 
dragon is gray with sparse patches of black 
hair growing out of its black-scaled hide. It 
has dark yellow fangs and dark brown fur 
that runs in a strip along its back. The 
beast's great head is as large as two horses, 
and its emerald eyes are piercing and fright 
ening. Its tail is long and barbed. Its feet end 
in long, curved claws that are tipped with 
dark red. Those who have seen the creature 
believe that the red color is from dried 
blood. The thing has no wings, but the wit 
nesses are certain it can fly anyway - 
magically. The thing breathes fire, emits a 
green-gray gas, causes people to run in fear, 
and is apparently accumulating treasure 
somewhere, since the victims who some 
how escaped with their lives were stripped 
of all valuables. 

Actually, all of the victims have escaped 


with their lives; Thomoth and Elisha have 
no desire to seriously harm someone. There 
have been a few occasions where an adven 
turer was burned by the thing, but that was 
because tire adventurer was too close to dis 
covering the mage and illusionist. In addi 
tion, Elisha and Thomoth have planted 
some burned clothes in a few alleys to fur 
ther add to their dragon's credibility. The 
public believes there have been fatalities 
because a few people in town have disap 
peared. In truth, the people were victims of 
the dragon and fled town for fear of being 
attacked again. 

The dragon attacks people who are walk 
ing alone or people in small groups who do 
not appear to be heavily armored. It always 
attacks at night (less chance of Elisha and 
Thomoth being noticed), and the attacks 
almost always occur in or near alleys. There 
is no pattern to the location of the attacks. 

Sometimes Elisha and Thomoth have to 
lure people to an alley so the dragon can 
attack. To accomplish this, Thomoth on 
occasion has "created" a gambling game in 
an alley, "manufactured" a pretty girl who 
beckons to people, or has placed a sparkling 
gem in the beam of a street light. 

Setup: The setup for this adventure is 
basically left up to you, since the interiors of 
buildings are not needed - the encounters 
will only occur in streets and alleys. How 
ever, you must set up at least a few build 
ings. This will help to give the image of 
shadowy streets and alleys, hr addition, the 
player characters may want to visit an inn 
or tavern in an attempt to get more informa 
tion about the dragon. 

How to Get the PCs Involved 

1. The PCs are quietly approached by 
town officials and asked if they can put an 
end to the threat of this dark dragon. The 
officials will offer each PC 100 gp and a 
week's stay in the city's finest inn in 
exchange for proof that the dragon is dead. 

2. The PCs have stopped in this town 
between adventures and hear a few tales 
about the dragon. A few of the storytellers 
talk about the wealth the dragon must be 
accumulating and about how the town's 
economy will soon suffer as news of the 
dragon reaches traveling merchants. 

The Dragon: The image of the dragon is 
the manifestation of a spectral force spell 
cast by Thomoth. Elisha helps to enhance 


the apparent reality of the monster. When 
the dragon emits its green-gray gas, the 
mage casts a sleep spell. When the dragon 
breathes fire, Elisha moves close to the tar 
get and casts burning hands. And when the 
dragon radiates its aura of fear, Elisha casts 
a scare spell or a fear spell. This latter action 
usually happens when the two spellcasters 
hear other people coming and don't want to 
risk having their scam exposed. After the 
fear is cast, Thomoth casts invisibility on 
himself (unless he is using dust of disap- 
perance), and the pair leaves. 

Fighting the Dragon: If the PCs are 

dressed in their adventuring garb when 
they encounter the dragon, Elisha will use 
the fear spell as the first method of attack. 
She hopes to get some of the PCs to run 
away, cutting their numbers so the 
"dragon" will have fewer people to deal 
with. If the remaining adventurers appear 
to pose a problem, she will cast stinking 
cloud when the dragon breathes its green- 
gray gas. She and Thomoth will avoid using 
magic that could reveal their presence, rely 
ing on spells that resemble a dragon's capa 
bilities. However, the pair will resort to 
their other spells if it appears the PCs are 
going to find them out. In addition, the pair 
will attempt to flee if there is doubt they can 
defeat the PCs. This latter possibility could 
result in a chase scene using the streets, 
alleys, and buildings the DM has laid out. 

Cast of Characters 

Elisha: 7th level human female mage. 

Str 9, Int 16, Wis 12, Dex 17, Con 15, Cha 
14. 

Hit points 17, Alignment CN, Armor class 
5 (front), 8 (rear). 

Spells carried: 

1st level burning hands (x2), sleep, 

charm person 

2nd level scare (x2), stinking cloud 

3rd level hold person, protection 

from normal missiles 
4th level fear 

Elisha wears or carries a ring of protection 
+2, a ring of invisibility, a dagger +2, a 
potion of flying, a potion of healing, a large 
carved wooden footprint (which she 
presses into the dirt in the alleyways to 
show proof of the dragon's presence), and 
three dozen black dragon scales (she used 
to have more, but she leaves a scale or two 
in the alley after each attack). 

Elisha is greedy and is primarily responsi- 


57 







JZ 



~X 

Z- 


? 

% 

.s *¦' 

- t - 




A GRAND ILLUSION 



ble for coming up with this idea. She plans 
on keeping this operation going in town for 
another week or two and then will move it 
to another town. She is fearful that if they 
stay in one place too long, the officials will 
bring in some high-level adventurers who 
could expose them. 

Thomoth: 7th level human male illusion 
ist. 

Str 11, hit 17, Wis 11, Dex 18, Con 12, Cha 
16. 

Hit points 19, Alignment CN, Armor Class 
4 (front), 8 (rear). 

Spells carried: 


1st level 

audible glamer, change self 
detect invisibility, phantas 
mal force 

2nd level 

improved phantasmal 
force, invisibility, ventrilo 
quism 

3rd level 

spectral force (x2) 

4th level 

fear 


Thomoth wears or carries bracers of 
defense AC 8, a dagger +1, and dust of dis 
appearance (8 uses left). He sometimes uses 
the dust to conceal himself when the 
dragon makes an appearance. If he thinks it 
is safe to do so, he will conserve the dust 
and merely crouch in a shadow or a dark 


corner while he manipulates the dragon. 

Thomoth is only slightly less greedy than 
Elisha. He thoroughly enjoys the scam 
about the dragon and is looking forward to 
leaving this town to try the setup else 
where. Thomoth wants to branch out, cre 
ating a whole variety of these "city beasts" 
which attack from the alleys. He plans on 
spending some of their wealth to purchase 
more dust of disappearance. 

Defeating the Dragon: If the PCs 
defeat the dragon but let Elisha and Tho 
moth escape, they will have a difficult time 
proving the scam, and they will not be able 
to recover the items the pair stole from the 
town residents. However, several days later 
you could leak information to the PCs about 
a dragon attacking residents in another 
nearby town. This will give the PCs a second 
chance at the mage and illusionist. 

If the PCs are able to capture Elisha and 
Thomoth, the pair will initially claim to not 
know anything and could even try to pass 
themselves off as victims of the dragon the 
PCs chased away. Persistent questioning 
will yield the truth and their treasure: 4,500 
gp worth of gems, jewelry, and assorted 
baubles; 1,000 gold pieces; and 2,000 silver 
pieces. If the PCs turn the treasure over, the 
4,500 gp worth of jewelry will be claimed by 
the robbery victims, leaving the monetary 
treasure -along with the townsfolks' undy 
ing gratitude and any magic items taken 
from Elisha and Thomoth -to the PCs. 

Suggested Street Layouts 


__a 

K 


58 





-c^rr~ 

C^^oilp V ,.^.. v -A 



THE MALTESE ROC 


This adventure is designed for four to six 
player characters, each of 5th to 7th level, 
composing a party with total levels of 
around 30. 

DM Background: The Maltese Roc, an 
"everything shop," is a bustling business 
operated by a retired halfling fighter named 
Samual Hart. It is a two-story establishment, 
with the shop on the first floor and Sam's 
living quarters on the second. A small base 
ment holds pawned items, out-of-season 
merchandise, out-of-fashion wares, and 
Sam's considerable stockpile of food. 

Sam dubbed the place his "everything 
shop," since he sells a little bit of 
everything-used weapons and armor, trin 
kets, odds and ends, household goods (that 
he'd get at a low price from traveling mer 
chants), jugs of ale and crates of dried meat 
(which he had purchased before tasting, 
and after tasting decided to sell), and some 
times magic items. Sam can handle this 
great variety of merchandise because many 
of his customers are adventurers, and 
adventurers always seem to want to pur 
chase a little bit of everything. Sam likes 
dealing with adventurers better than any 
other group of clientele because he likes to 
hear their stories. He will purchase the 
goods they find in dungeons, or let them 
trade their booty for other items he has in 
stock. Sometimes Sam will buy an ordinary 
or worthless item from an adventurer, such 
as a rusty dagger, if there is a good tale 
behind it. 

Occasionally Sam also operates a pawn busi 
ness, letting an adventurer put up a magic 
sword or other valued property in exchange 
for a loan. When the adventurer repays the 
loan-with interest, of course -the property is 
returned. Sam usually holds onto pawned 
items for a year or more, out of sympathy for 
adventurers who might be down on their luck 
and unable to come up with the money to 
reclaim their possessions. 

All of the above describes the Sam that the 
townsfolk and visitors to the city have come 
to know and appreciate. But, unfortunately 
for the adventurers in town, Sam's business 
practices have changed. In fact, Sam has 
changed, too. He has been replaced by- 
Humphrey, a boggart who (in halfling form) 
followed a group of adventurers into the 
city and straight into the Maltese Roc. Hum 
phrey observed Sam's operation and decid 
ed that this kind of life would be an 
interesting change of pace from lurking in 
his wilderness lair. So he captured Sam, 


brought in two of his boggart friends, and 
took over the business. The three boggarts, 
who alternately assume the role of Sam, 
began paying adventurers less for their 
goods, gave them less in trade, and occa 
sionally killed a lone adventurer who wan 
dered into the shop, so they could take all 
his money and equipment without paying 
out anything. 

To complicate matters. The Maltese Roc's 
new practices have come to the attention of 
the local thieves guild -since a few of Sam's 
regular customers belonged to the guild 
and had disappeared after visiting the shop. 
Guild representatives confronted "Sam," 
fearing he was trying to start up a rival 
guild, and Sam revealed his true nature. 
However, rather than fight the guild in a 
battle the boggarts were certain they could 
win, Sam proposed that the thieves, him 
self, and his two boggart friends work 
together to increase profits. Sam saw this as 
an opportunity to increase his power and 
wealth. And he figured if the thieves didn't 
agree with his plan or became too difficult 
to deal with, the boggarts would kill them 
and resume operating the business. The 
thieves guild, loath to turn down a money 
making proposition, quickly agreed to the 
scam, and a larger operation was created. 
The guild leaders plan to eventually elimi 
nate the boggarts and take over the entire 
operation. The boggarts plan to gain the 
confidence of the guild members, kill the 
guild leaders, and take over the leadership 
of the guild. 

To maintain the scam, the guild began to 
station three thieves inside the Maltese Roc. 
Wearing various disguises, they posed as 
customers and alternated shifts with others 
in the guild. When adventurers appeared 
singly or in pairs and did not accept Sam's 
new, stingier terms, the dissatisfied cus 
tomers were followed out of the shop by the 
thieves, lured into an alley (as the thieves 
professed interest in the items the adven 
turers were trying to sell to Sam), knocked 
out, and robbed, with the wealth being 
divided between the thieves and the bog 
garts. Occasionally a fight would ensue. If 
the customer died, the thieves guild dis 
posed of the body. If the customer escaped 
and went to the authorities, Sam remained 
blameless. He could claim he had never seen 
the customers before, and could not be 
responsible for them leaving the shop and 
assaulting someone else. 

Adventurers who accepted Sam's terms 
for their merchandise sometimes had their 


pockets picked in the store or were fol 
lowed out of the store and waylaid so the 
thieves could steal the money Sam had paid 
them. The thieves are careful not to assault 
adventurers who seem well-seasoned or 
who display magic items for sale or trade. 

Despite the change in business practices, 
Sam's shop remained busy. The thieves 
guild had bullied other merchants into 
steering some of their customers to The 
Maltese Roc. A few of the shop owners were 
charmed by a mage in the employ of the 
guild to especially direct low-level, yet rea 
sonably wealthy, adventurers to Sam. 

Setup: At the minimum, this adventure 
requires two 2"-by-3", two- story building 
fold-ups, a 2"-by-2" one-story building, and 
two street layouts, on which the buildings 
should be placed. You should also set up a 
few other buildings to throw players off the 
track, so they don't immediately realize that 
all the action of this adventure takes place 
in the three buildings mentioned above. It is 
logical for other buildings to be in the area, 
since the part of the city being portrayed is 
in the merchants district, where shops and 
other business establishments are liable to 
be constructed close together. 

The buildings involved in this adventure 
include The Maltese Roc, a two-story build 
ing; the one-story Knife and Dagger Shop, a 
small weapons emporium operated by the 
thieves guild (the real Sam is being held in 
the basement of this shop); and the Blue 
Dragon Inn, a run-down two-story inn and 
tavern; which serves as a base for the 
thieves guild and is located next door to the 
Knife and Dagger Shop. The placement of 
these latter two buildings could allow for a 
rooftop chase, depending on how the action 
flows. The Maltese Roc can be placed any 
where you desire, depending on how long 
or complicated you want a chase to be (if 
one occurs). 

How to Get the PCs Involved 


"You new in town?" the bartender asks, 
leaning over the top of the bar and filling 
your glasses. "You look like adventurers 
from your garb. Well, if you're thinking 
about selling anything you picked up on 
the road or if you're looking to get some 
equipment, I can point you in the right 
direction. The Maltese Roc. That's where 
you want to go. Sam Hart, the proprietor, 


59 





caters to people like you. He buys things 
from adventurers and sells the kind of 
odd things you people like to buy. He's a 
good, honest sort, to -for a halfling." 

"That's not so," interrupts another cus 
tomer. The customer, wearing a worn 
suit of banded mail and a carrying a 
scabbarded broad sword at his side, gets 
up from his table and approaches you. 
"Sam's upped the price of his goods, and 
he doesn't trade much anymore. He's not 
so friendly as he used to be. And besides, 
a fellow adventuring friend of mine 
went there to sell him a dagger, and he 
never returned. I don't think he ever 
made it out of the shop. It's like I always 
said, you can't trust halflings. They're all 
thieves." 

"No. No. Not true!" came a small voice 
from the far end of the counter. A plump 
halfling nearly upset his drink as he 
jumped down from his barstool and 
joined the conversation. "Sam's a friend 
of mine. He's a fighter, not a thief. And 
he's just not himself lately. It's probably 
some adventurer's fault -sold him a 
cursed item. That's what happened. Hey, 
if you guys really are adventurers, why 
don't you go down to Sam's and do some 
thing about it? I betcha Sam would 
appreciate it if you found out what was 
wrong. Probably would give you the 
pick of something from his shop . . . just 
don't take the cursed item." 

"There's nothing wrong with Sam," 
contradicts a scruffy-looking man 
cloaked in shadows. "The problem's with 
all of you." The gentleman gets up from 
his seat and leaves the tavern. 


A setup such as that could spark the PCs' 
curiosity and make them realize there's an 
adventure in town just asking to be under 
taken. However, there are several other 
possible ways to get the PCs involved: 

1. If the PCs are regulars in this town, 
they probably have visited The Maltese Roc 
before. When they visit Sam's place now, 
they will not be greeted as pleasantly as 
before, will not get good deals, and should 
become very suspicious of Sam and the 
three customers who continue to linger in 
the shop but don't seem interested in buy 
ing anything. 

2. If the PCs visit a merchant in town, they 


will be urged by that merchant to shop at 
The Maltese Roc. The merchant, who has 
been charmed, will be very insistent that 
they should go there. 

3. One of the PCs is pickpocketed by a 
thief who runs into The Maltese Roc. That 
same thief will escape through the base 
ment and sewer pipes, but the incident 
should serve to get the PCs into the build 
ing. Of course, Sam and the other "cus 
tomers" in the shop will claim not to have 
seen anyone run into the shop. 

4. The PCs are asked by a party of low- 
level adventurers if they could try to sell a 
few items to the proprietor of The Maltese 
Roc. The adventurers say they just aren't 
very good at haggling, and they've heard 
that Sam isn't liable to give them any breaks. 
They are hopeful the PCs will have better 
luck. 

5. The PCs inquire about buying merchan 
dise or selling something and are directed to 
The Maltese Roc, where they will be offered 
less than ideal prices and will be pickpock 
eted or lured down an alley by the thieves. 

Other Merchants: If the PCs visit some 
other merchants, roll d8 for each visit and 
consult the following list of outcomes to 
determine the merchant's status with the 
thieves guild. 

1-2: This merchant has not been 
approached by the thieves guild and will 
conduct business as usual. 

3: This merchant has been contacted by 
the thieves guild, but has ignored their bul 
lying tactics. Because of that, his shop has 
suffered some damage. He will offer the PCs 
good deals and will treat them fairly. If the 
PCs ask him about The Maltese Roc, the 
merchant will tell them to stay away, 
because he has a feeling that something just 
isn't quite right there. 

4-6: This merchant has given in to the 
thieves guilds bullying tactics. He will try to 
conduct some business with the PCs, since 
he has to make a living, but will recommend 
that they shop at The Maltese Roc for a bet 
ter selection. 

7-8: One of the guild's mages has charmed 
this merchant. His business is poor because 
he refers almost all of his customers to The 
Maltese Roc. He sells only enough to pay the 
rent on his shop and cover his necessary 
purchases of food and clothing. If the PCs 


ask this merchant about The Maltese Roc, 
he will brag about the good deals and large 
selection available there and about Sam's 
virtues. 

The Maltese Roc: The shop takes up the 
entire first floor of the building in which it 
is located. Wares are displayed on evenly 
spaced shelves throughout the center of the 
shop. Used armor, shields, and boots hang 
on the walls. Many weapons are displayed 
on the wall behind the back counter, from 
which Sam operates his business. A few of 
these weapons are magical. Sam also has 
finely crafted weapons on display in a 
locked glass case at the back counter. The 
real Sam kept nonmagical weapons in the 
case, hoping thieves would think common 
weapons were kept on the wall and magic 
weapons in the case. The magic weapon 
inventory consists of two short swords +3, 
one long sword +1, and a dagger +1/+3 
vs. smaller than man-sized creatures. In 
addition, Sam has a pair of boots of 
elvenkind and a shield +1 hanging on the 
wall. The shelves in the center of the store 
contain clothes, belts, household goods, 
rope, lanterns, leather barding for horses 
and other mounts, tack, small statues, other 
odds and ends collected in dungeons and 
ruins, and many, many other items -a little 
bit of everything. Sam carries nearly every 
item on the equipment lists in the AD&D(r) 
Player's Handbook that is small enough to 
be easily contained within the shop, except 
for livestock, and there is a 90% chance he 
will have anything else, except magic items, 
that the PCs ask for. 

Two boggarts are always in this building, 
one in the shop (disguised as Sam) and one 
in the basement. A boggart cannot retain a 
demihuman form for more than 10 to 12 
minutes, so if the PCs stay in the shop for 
close to 10 minutes, "Sam" will excuse him 
self and go downstairs to get something. 
The other boggart will replace him, after 
being briefly filled in on what the PCs have 
said and done during their time in the shop. 
The PCs could become suspicious when 
their conversation with "Sam" resumes; 
since one Sam won't know the full details of 
what the PCs said to the other Sam. And the 
"Sams" will continue to trade off if the PCs 
stay in the shop for a while. 

Boggarts (Humphrey and Bakall): AC -6; 
MV 18; HD 6; hp 30, 34; #AT 1; Dmg 2d6; SA 
discharge a bolt of electrical energy every 
other round for 2d6 (save vs. breath weap- 


60 




THE MALTESE ROC 



on for half damage), confusion; SD invisibil- 
ty, immune to spells except magic missile, 
maze, and protection from evil; AL CE; 
THACO 13. 

Harcourt, 4th level human thief: AC 4 
(leather and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 4; hp 
17; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); SA double 
damage on backstab; AL NE; THACO 19. 

Thieving abilities: PP 50, OL 50, RT 35, MS 
35, HS 35, DN 15, CW 80, RL 20. 

Harcourt carries a long sword, a sap, and 
23 gp. He is a hot-tempered bully who hopes 
to get a lot of personal wealth out of this 
operation. If he picks a customer's pocket, 
he will only report 80% of his take to the 
guild and the boggarts. 

Alowishus, 5th level human thief: AC 5 
(leather +1 and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 5; 
hp 25; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 + 1 (long sword plus 
Str bonus); SA triple damage on backstab; 
AL NE; THACO 18. 


Thieving abilities: PP 50, OL 40, RT 40, MS 
40, HS 25, DN 20, CW 90, RL 0. 

Alowishus carries a long sword, wine 
skin, 10 gp and 15 sp. He is sly and quiet. He 
will not talk to the customers or boggarts in 
the shop. He distrusts the boggarts and is 
carefully watching them, reporting their 
actions to the guild lieutenant. 

Mergatroit, male half-elf 3rd level fighter/ 
4tli level thief: AC 4 (banded mail, shield, 
and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 4; hp 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8 + 2 (long sword plus Str bonus); 
AL CE; SA double damage on backstab; 
THACO 17 (includes Str bonus). 

Thieving abilities: not applicable, because 
he will wear his armor throughout the 
course of the adventure. 

Mergatroit carries a long sword, a sap, 5 
gp, 10 sp, and a 120 gp pearl. He is reluctant 
about being involved in this operation. He is 
bored with posing as a customer. PCs who 


stay 20 minutes or longer in The Maltese 
Roc will notice that Mergatroit figgets and 
looks uneasy. 

If a fight breaks out in the shop, and the 
PCs appear to be at least holding their own, 
one of the thieves or one of the boggarts will 
try to escape to warn the thieves at the 
Knife and Dagger Shop and at the Blue 
Dragon Inn that the operation has been dis 
covered and to prepare for a fight. 

If either or both of the boggarts are 
reduced to less than 10 hit points, they will 
try to escape by turning into their wisp 
form, going invisible, and darting out 
through a wall. They will not fight to the 
death, preferring to run away and set up a 
similar scam in another town. 

The thieves and the boggarts know that 
the real Sam is being held prisoner in the 
basement of the Knife and Dagger Shop, but 
it will be difficult for the PCs to get this 





information out of them. The thieves will 
reveal as little information as possible about 
the operation and the thieves guild. In addi 
tion, they will avoid mentioning the third 
boggart. 

PCs searching The Maltese Roc will find 
the items stored in the basement plus 820 
gp, 1,900 sp, three 100 gp base topazes, and 
a coral necklace worth 900 gp, all kept in a 
large barrel marked "good rum." 

The Knife and Dagger Shop: This 
shop is managed by three proprietors: a 
thief, a mage/thief, and a 0-level human who 
sharpens blades for the thieves guild. The 
proprietors sell daggers and knives (and 
run a fencing operation for the guild). Sam 
is in the basement with the third boggart. 
The shop contains hundreds of knives and 
daggers - all nonmagical, stored in locked 
cases-ranging in price from 1 gp to 500 gp, 
depending on the quality of the blade and 
the decoration (gems, etc.), if any, on the 
hilt. No magical daggers are for sale. 

The proprietors will not be immediately 
wary of the PCs unless a thief or a boggart 
escaped from The Maltese Roc to warn 
them. If the proprietors were forewarned, 
the 0-level human will have gone down 
stairs to inform the third boggart, and then 
take the real Sam through the sewer pipe 
that leads to the basement of the inn next 
door. 

If the proprietors were not forewarned, 
but become suspicious of the PCs because 
they ask too many questions or make 
threats, the 0-level human will attempt to go 
downstairs and move Sam or have the bog 
gart move Sam to the inn. If he is prevented 
from going downstairs, he will call out a 
warning. In this case the boggart will take 
the real Sam into the sewer pipe and to tire 
inn next door if possible. In either case, the 
boggart will come back to the basement, 
ready to look like Sam if the PCs come 
downstairs. The thief and the mage/thief 
will attempt to avoid a fight with the PCs, 
either by professing ignorance about a 
thieves guild or by ordering them to leave 
the establishment. If the PCs leave, the thief 
and the mage/thief will go downstairs and 
into the Blue Dragon Inn to prepare for a 
fight. The boggart will head back for The 
Maltese Roc. 

If a fight ensues in The Knife and Dagger 
Shop and the PCs defeat the thief and the 
mage/thief upstairs, they will find "Sam" in 
the basement. This Sam is the third boggart. 
The real Sam is next door. Sam will appear 


very grateful and will want to get back to 
his business right away (to start the scam all 
over again). Sam will try to avoid staying 
with the PCs for more than 10 minutes, 
because he cannot keep his halfling form 
longer than that. If discovered, this boggart 
will try to escape rather than fight, because 
he does not want to take on the PCs alone. 

PCs searching the basement will find the 
sewer grating and marks in the dirt leading 
up to it, indicating that something or some 
one has been recently dragged up to the 
entrance to the pipe. The sewer pipe leads 
to the inn, where the 0-level human or the 
boggart will have taken Sam (if successful). 

Morris, 6th level human thief: AC 4 ( ring 
of protection +2 and Dex bonus); MV 12; 
HD 6; hp 28; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword) or 
ld4 (dagger); AL NE; SA triple damage on 
backstab; THAC0 18. 

Theiving abilities: PP 70, OL 50, RT 50, MS 
35, HS 30, DN 20, CW 95, RL 30. 

Morris carries a long sword, four silvered 
daggers, 2 pp, 8 gp, and 5 sp. On the sur 
face, he appears to be a very pleasant busi 
nessman, always eager to help a customer. 
He is clean-shaven, good-looking, and has a 
charming smile. However, Morris is decep 
tive and underhanded. If a customer 
appears to have no idea about the value of 
knives and daggers, Morris will sell him a 
weapon for 50% to 100% more than the 
actual price and pocket the difference. Mor 
ris is out for himself, having little loyalty to 
the guild. If his life becomes endangered, he 
will betray the guild in exchange for his 
safety. 

Lewis, male half-elf 5th level mage/6th 
level thief: AC 3 (bracers of defense AC 6 
and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 6; hp 20; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4 (dagger); SA spells, triple damage 
on backstab; AL CE; THAC0 18. 

Thieving abilities: PP 70, OL 60, RT 45, MS 
25, HS 25, DN 20, CW 95, RL 30. 

Spells memorized: 

1st level charm person, magic missile, 
shocking grasp 

2nd level invisibility, stinking cloud 

3rd level slow 

Lewis carries five daggers (one of them 
+1), 10 sp, 5 gp, and wears a silver ring 
worth 230 gp. Despite his chaotic nature, he 
is very loyal to the guild-perhaps its most 
loyal member. The guild leader has saved 
his life on three occasions, and Lewis is 
repaying the debt by operating the shop. 
However, Lewis has no such loyalty to indi 


vidual members of the guild. Lewis spies on 
other members to make sure they do not 
betray tire guild leader. He hopes to rise to a 
position of power within the guild. 

Mac, 0-level human: AC 9 (Dex bonus); MV 
12; hp 5; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); AL NE; 
THAC0 20. 

Mac is a very young human who wants to 
be accepted as a member of the guild and 
taught theiving skills. He works very hard 
to please Morris and Lewis. 

Boggart (Heppbym): AC -6; MV 18; HD 6; 
hp 30; #AT 1; Dmg 2d6; SA discharge a bolt 
of electrical energy every other round for 
2d6 (save vs. breath weapon for half dam 
age), confusion; SD invisibility, immune to 
spells except magic missile, maze, and pro 
tection from evil; AL CE; THAC0 13. 

The Blue Dragon Inn: If the 0-level 
human or the boggart was successful in get 
ting Sam to the inn and warning the thieves 
there about the PCs, the thieves will pre 
pare for a fight. They will not want the PCs 
to escape and reveal the scam to the author 
ities. The thieves will take Sam upstairs, put 
him in a guest room, securely tie him, and 
knock him out with a sap. They don't want 
to take any chances. The thieves will put a 
"Closed" sign in the window of the inn, pull 
all the shades, and sit in the establishment 
waiting for the PCs to come upstairs from 
the sewer pipe. 

There are nine opponents in The Blue 
Dragon, two of whom will be sprinkled with 
dust of disappearance (if they had any 
warning). These two, both thieves, will be 
hanging on the railing of the steps leading 
up from the basement, waiting to jump on 
the backs of PCs entering the main inn 
room. In addition, the cleric will be prepar 
ing a silence spell to cast on a PC spellcast- 
er's robes. The opponents are crafty. They 
want to fight the PCs in this large room, 
where all of them can join the fight, rather 
than in the basement near the sewer pipe, 
where only four or five could fight. Thiev 
ing abilities are not given for the thieves 
(with one exception; see Opponent #9), 
since those skills would not come into play 
in a combat situation, and that is the only 
circumstance under which these opponents 
will be encountered. 

Opponents #1 and #2, 3rd level human 
thieves (coated with dust of disappearance): 
AC 6 (leather and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 3; 
hp 12,14; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short sword); AL 


62 





CE; SA double damage on backstab; THACO 
19. 

These thieves are carrying 10 gp apiece. 
In addition, each has two more applications 
of dust of disappearance that he can use. 

Opponent #3, 5th level human thief: AC 4 
(leather and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 5; hp 
21; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 + 1 (long sword +1); 
AL CE; SA double damage on backstab; 
THACO 18. 

This thief has 15 gp, 10 sp, wears a bronze 
and silver wristband worth 200 gp, and car 
ries a potion of flying. 

Opponent #4, elven 2nd level fighter/2nd 
level mage/3rd level thief: AC 3 (leather, ring 
of protection +1, and Dex bonus); MV 12; 
HD 2; hp 9; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); SA 
spells, double damage on backstab; AL NE; 
THACO 19. 

Spells memorized: 

1st level charm person, taunt 

The elf carries 2 gp and a 110 gp gold 
ingot. 

Opponent #5, 6th level halfling thief: AC 5 
(leather and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 6; hp 
24; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 + 1 (short sword plus 
Str bonus); AL NE; SA double damage on 
backstab; THACO 18. 

The halfling carries 10 pp, 18 gp, and a 
potion of healing. 

Opponent #6, 4th level dwarven thief: AC 
5 (leather and Dex bonus); MV 9; HD 4; hp 
21; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 + 2 (short sword plus 
Str bonus); AL CE; SA double damage on 
backstab; THACO 18. 

The dwarf carries 21 gp and a hunk of 
coral worth 20 gp. 

Opponent #7, 6th level human thief 
(Mugly, the guild lieutenant): AC 4 (leather, 
ring of protection +1, and Dex bonus); MV 
9; HD 6; hp 33; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 + 2 (long 
sword +1 plus Str bonus); AL CE; SA triple 
damage on backstab; THACO 18. 

Mugly carries 20 gp and a chunk of quartz 
worth 75 gp. In addition, he has a potion of 
healing and a potion of sweet water. 

Mugly is very crafty, careful in a fight, and 
very protective of his own neck. He enjoys 
his position of second in command in the 
guild, and has no desire to become the guild 
leader. He will protect the leader (see Oppo 
nent #9), and if the fight is going too quickly 
against the guild he will try to escape with 
the guild leader in tow. 

Opponent #8, 4th level human cleric: AC 5 


(chain mail and shield); MV 9; HD 4; hp 23; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6 + 1 (footman's mace); AL 
NE; THACO 18. 

Spells carried: 

1st level cause fear, command, cure 
light ivounds, curse, darkness 
2nd level find traps, hold person, silence 
15' radius 

The cleric carries 10 sp and two pearls 
each worth 50 gp. 

After casting silence on the robes of a PC 
spellcaster, the cleric will cast hold person 
on two or three PCs, depending on their 
locations in the inn. He will cast cause fear 
on a remaining fighter or spellcaster, fol 
lowed by command ("Sleep!") and curseEI). 
If the cleric feels too threatened, he will try 
to escape with the lieutenant and the guild 
leader. 

Opponent #9, 12th level halfling thief 
(Drolo, the guild leader): AC 2 (bracers of 
defense AC 6 and Dex bonus); MV 12; HD 
10+4; hp 44; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 + 2 (short 
sword of quickness +2); AL CE; SA quadru 
ple damage on backstab; THACO 15. He has 
a 95% chance of hiding in shadows, and will 
use this ability when fighting the PCs. 

Drolo carries 5 pp and 5 gp, and wears a 
platinum and ruby ring worth 8,200 gp. In 
addition, he has a potion of extra healing, a 
potion of invisibility (which he will use to 
escape if necessary), and a half-used jar of 
Nolzur's marvelous pigments. 

Drolo hates to have his plans ruined, and 
will do everything he can to stop the PCs 
from revealing his scam and threatening 
the existence of his guild. Drolo will not ini 
tially enter the fight against the PCs, opting 
instead to spend the first two rounds watch 
ing them to learn which characters pose the 
most threat. He will attempt to backstab the 
character who appears to be the toughest. 
However, Drolo is not stupid. If the fight is 
going too quickly against the guild, he will 
leave the inn in the company of his lieuten 
ant, and possibly the guild's cleric. He 
knows it is better to run away and build a 
guild in another city than to be killed or risk 
exposure of his guild and his plans in this 
city. 

Aftermath: If the PCs search the inn fol 
lowing the fight (provided they win), they 
will find a total of 1,800 gp and 13,200 sp. 
The best treasure consists of the magic 
items carried by the guild members. The 
PCs will have to search the inn to find the 
unconscious Sam. If Sam is rescued, he will 


be extremely grateful and will offer the PCs 
a one-time 35% discount on anything in his 
shop. If the PCs haven't figured everything 
out, he will tell the PCs all about the bog 
garts and the thieves guild's plan and will 
explain that they didn't kill him because 
they wanted to find out more information 
about operating a shop and about his busi 
ness contacts. In addition, the boggarts 
wanted him kept alive so they could study 
him and better perfect his mannerisms. 

Suggested Street Layouts 


sa 


63 






V 



ADVENTURES FOR THE CITIES 



Here are some basic plots for city adven 
tures which can be used in almost any fan 
tasy role-playing game system. 

Looks Can Be Deceiving: The most 
powerful government official in town is act 
ing strangely. He's implementing odd and 
unreasonable taxes and planning to start 
programs which will benefit himself, but 
will do nothing to better the city or its peo 
ple. Actually, the official is not himself. He 
has been replaced by a shapechanging mon 
ster that is having fun trying its hand at poli 
tics. The player characters will have to 
catch the shapechanger and rescue the real 
politician. 

Pickpocket Peddlers: A gang of 
thieves are masquerading as street ped 
dlers. The owner of a trinket shop provides 
the thieves with goods to sell on the street, 
and the thieves pick the pockets of the peo 
ple who look over their wares. The trinket 
shop owner gets a percentage of tire stolen 
money. The player characters hear rumors 
about a gang of pickpockets operating in the 
merchants quarter and are asked to find the 
thieves and put a stop to their activities. 

Feathering His Nest: A merchant has 
purchased a cockatrice from a band of 
adventurers and is keeping the thing caged 
up in his basement. The merchant is using 
the monster to get rich: he very carefully 
gathers the beasts' feathers and uses them 
to turn animals into "amazingly lifelike 
statues" which he sells to the public. Unfor 
tunately for the fraud, a few of the neigh 
bors have begun to miss their pets. A 
wealthy pet owner hires the PCs to find her 
favorite dog, and the PCs must ultimately 
deal with the merchant and his monster. 

A Good Right Arm: A man new to town 
(a giant polymorphed to human form) has 
been visiting the local taverns and winning 
money from the locals in arm-wrestling 
contests. The citywide arm-wrestling cham 
pionship is coming up next week, and a few 
of the locals look to the PCs to find a champi 
on who can best the newcomer. 

There Is No Honor: Horton, a thief who 
has served his time for a series of burglaries 
he committed 10 years ago, is finally free on 
parole and intends to lead an honest life 
from now on. But the thieves guild he used 
to belong to doesn't like his change in 
careers. Several members of the guild have 


begun a series of burglaries - using the 
same method of operation Horton was 
known for. Horton is arrested for the 
crimes, and it is up to the PCs to prove his 
innocence and bring the real culprits to jus 
tice. 

Protection Racket: A group of hood 
lums have enlisted the aid of a local cleric of 
non-good alignment to help them with a 
protection racket. The cleric controls a 
small group of undead, which he and the 
hoodlums take to merchants' homes after 
dark. The hoodlums demand that the mer 
chants pay protection money, or their busi 
nesses will be mined by the undead. Most of 
the merchants agree to the mob's terms. 
However, one merchant won't put up with 
the threats and contacts a group of low- 
level adventurers to handle the threat. 

Defacing The Face: A statue has been 
made to honor the town's leading official, 
and it has been placed in the center of the 
park. The day after the dedication ceremo 
ny, the statue's head is missing. It is found a 
day later, high up in the branches of a large 
tree in the park. The statue is repaired, only 
to have it covered the next day with bright 
red paint, and the next day adorned with 
leaves and pinecones. The town official 
hires the player characters to catch the per 
son responsible for defacing the statue. The 
problem is, no one person or group of per 
sons is responsible. A thieves guild, a group 
of teenagers, three elderly men who don't 
like the official, a whimsical leprechaun, 
and a group of drunks from the tavern 
across from the park are all responsible for 
the assorted acts, and the player characters 
will have their hands full catching all the 
culprits. 

Election Hysteria: The mayor is a very 
popular man who has been very good for 
the city. It is certain he will win the next 
election. However, the mayor's opponent 
has a few mages working for him, who are 
charming people to vote for their candidate. 
The mayor loses by an incredible margin 
and asks the player characters to look into 
the voting process. 

Monsters in the Street: A bum who 
"acquired" a pouch filled with a few coins 
and a beautiful gem from a dead man in an 
alley has actually acquired a jewel of attacks 
(or a similar magic item which draws mon 
sters and always returns to its owner). The 


bum sold the gem to a jewelry shop, which 
during the night was attacked by a monster. 
The next morning the gem appeared back 
in the bum's pouch. The bum believes the 
pouch is magical and will produce a gem 
every day. He continues to sell a gem each 
day to a jeweler, pawnbroker, or some hap 
less gent he meets on the street. The city 
begins to be plagued by monsters, and the 
player characters are called in to find a way 
to keep the monsters out of town. 

The Water Doesn't Work: A few 

unscrupulous adventurers with potions of 
animal control have instructed several giant 
beavers to dam up the river that flows 
through town. The adventurers are holding 
the water for ransom, threatening to keep 
the city dry if it doesn't come up with 5,000 
gp. The player characters are asked to find 
a way to turn the water back on. 

There Goes the Neighborhood: A 

wealthy landowner anticipates the city's 
business district growing and wants to 
acquire land next to the business district so 
he can cash in on the expansion. To accom 
plish this, he has hired a few down-on-their- 
luck fighters to bully the locals into selling 
their property. He has set fire to a few 
homes -the owners of which would not 
sell -and has had the fighters threaten that 
there will be more fires. A few businessmen 
have noticed that several locals are moving 
from the area and that the land is being 
bought up. They ask the player characters 
to investigate. 

Rats, Rats, Rats: A pawn shop owner 
unwittingly acquired pipes of the sewers 
and has been playing them to pass the time 
when no customers are around. This has 
brought hundreds upon hundreds of rats 
into the city, and the player characters are 
hired to exterminate them. 


64 







HJ 




< r 'T j V V V 


3S$SXXX1401 









































































































































































































































































1 f: T: iSk.Inc. All Rights 




































































p s i jTf] Yif *4.|' 





'li i!ji; j 1 !! " 








1 | J" [|| IiiLJiI El J 1 'i j| Eli 



hi liu v iii- ,r~ Jill i¦ i 










III II 






n | III rf [ l[| 












Ml ll|] ||" | In, ! | 




lill 1.; Lhi fl: III 1 k) 





! ^ |*i i ]i|i Li 






[jr , IT j If f y,l 











iT lFiIuT [^r If r 1 

1 [ l TTTCmt 

" l L i.^ U] I 1 U 1 r 


ni 




92E2XX1M4IH 





































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































' 
















r 








































































































































¦\3t 





















1: 




r t 





























































































































































PPM* 


lili.irill'SCHHWHit 


























































































































































































































































pSHXKxags-F, 



¦pa.-jire.3H *|L|E.ih litf _ aui 'fcsgi. BSd t 

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































15W9 T£F1. hr. AV. fin:-..' . ,M 


£lf 

1 


"I iTi'i 



W 















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































lfi-sa ISA, !nr- ftll niii'its Reserved 


9262XJ(*1 403 






























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































92G2XXX14Q2 1M9 T SR. Inc. All RigtfM* H^eniiw. 














































































































































































1' 

| > 



I__^J L 'll r J 

! J 




U 


¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦¦ 

i i 

!¦ 

C 


¦ 


1 

ifl 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 


( 

11 = ^' 


"=cSc 

=f. 

91 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ " 

" 


¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

¦ 

mm 



1 

--+ 

















































































































































































































































































/Jih 










j!/ Juh! J 





Ui 



L yi /' 


fa/f 

r. ,:,, -*p... 

SmSl 

j }~uij.j| j 

¦^Tv 






























































































































uiram 


















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































fassm 


1-: i' 1 


> 















1 












P 


m 

S'AL 

¦i 

mtm\ 

ju 

i 

= 

a 


- 


- >n\ 


f. 

¦ r 





"5 _ jf ¦_ 

i 


- 

i -- ,< -"- ~ - 

. 

i 

& 


a 


Sis 

Pi* 

iz! 

i 

1 

'H 

r 

- 

E 


I * 



¦ ¦ IL r 

r 

- 

It 


if 


---J-r--; 


IT 


m 


ill 

i 

? 

tp 


III 

¦ 

¦ 

rn 


JJ 














































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































&£& : 

X ffec ¦; *: r ,-?.'J "7 ¦ .-.' *.:- 




t f, I Wja 

v.v/- 











































































































































































































































































































































mMmj 

dgji#ag^^g"£^ 


mrnm 

i'2 


TTrHl 


7 S$$W$: 

; 'r : '; 

lil 









































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































I E2E 









































































































































































































uD 












































































































































































































































































































v.V'VJ.V,; 




': \ i 
























































































































































































-. ¦ I'.'Tf 1 -7, - rlJ-jn.-, '-, J>i 




3E31 

"/ 

J i> ' ¦. J 

























































































































































JLlXT-S 

-> ¦; 2 \* yj > \ ¦! 






































































































































































~J> .LO.. 1 


JW-V 






>'  .-I .V) :!, ; . : iWlUw^Jv 

























































































































































































E£222J$SC23C 




i- : X jr* 

. \\ r r 



-/' ,yL 

^ ¦ 'j 


/Srj 

ir/"3 
































































































































































































































































' -V 


J-TiiiES. r . 




mm 















































































































































































































ViTgHTTf. 


























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































r rrrtn 


mzm 




i 'V 

it. 

1 

in; 

¦ 

1' 


1 


i; 



- 

1 


i 

. 
































































































































Wm 


V/V-A^. 
































































































































































































































































































































































































































¦fWi wncr.7,(r) J^WitUi 'J 7T' r : ' 


^-iwxxxrjam:.-: 












































































































































































































































Sjy-... -ft-* : j?'j& 


_ 


hi \i*i 









































































































































































































































































































































































































































































mm 




TP 

/tfiPiVjfill 

H^jsEES'j ST'vTt 


£ 

mm 
























































































































































































































































































































































































































































r} T ¦' 


_^r- " ¦ ' TR 




I- 


j 

i - 

---- * -¦ 

j 

Sc 

c.zr. it 

---., 

- 

l " l " 



 . 






3 

C* 

















































































































































































































Cities exp Mysterzy 

Dungeon delving cm.bc delightful. Wandering in the wilder 
ness is a wnnderful way to pass the time. Uhl for the ultimate in 
opportunity, intrigue, anti unexpected danger, try visiting the 
nrrinrfj villugCj LOtvil, Of City, 

A city is much more limn a rest hi up, it watering hole, or a 
plane hi buy equipment. Any c-omitsunity, from the smallest 
hamlet to I be most crowded medieval metropolis, offers ad ven- 
Luring possibilities that can't Jio found in any other environ- 
met it. Cifies of Mystery describes for I be Dungeon Master how 
lo create realistic, exciting, and vibrant communities-and gives 
him the tools to make his ureahons comeajive. 

Inside this folder an: 12 different street layout pailcniK Lbal 
can he combined in a mn[hi uric of ways, plus 33 Itl hidings ul 
various shapes and sizes Lhal can be cut out and assembled. The 
components, scaled far use with 25mm miniHlu(tm) figures, allow 
you to create th rra dimcnslonal city scenes for characters lo 
explore, Alsu included 'm a EJ4-page honk t hat takes yon step by 
slep through the process of defining and designing the villages, 
towns, and cities of yptir campaign world. The book contains 
five ad von luie scenarios that make use uf the street layouts and 
inid-up buildings-Ideas tWignod to gel you started on the way 
to making .your cities come a live. 

awn ud. 

IZ(lChurch lied, ('limy lliiiton 
C B T 7 ihrkl^"- cm 3LB 
ITnili; lI Kiiifiilum 

ISBN (V 8 en:is-T 444 t 


sts .do u.s. 

advanced dungeons *tmAfiONB, ad£[>, forgotten realms, phochjcts of your im actuation, 

And I he T5R iDEjii ire Lradwwrtti owned by TSR, Irtfr. 

13Ba T£fl. Inc. All FfpflUW FhHJjrvnd. Pirnled in fchtf U.S.A. 



T8B, TrtCL 
wii jr f R 
Lake Geneva, 
Wi JI3147USA 































