■ofHi£
The  first  crack  appeared,  along  the  inside  of  the  shell,  and muted  light— brighter  than  anything  the  dragon  babe  had  ever known— lanced  into  its  dark,  crowded  world.  The  new  creature pushed  against  Che  textured  wall,  lengthening  the  fissures  and widening  the  light  filed  breaks.  It  craved  the  light  then,  and fear  rose  inside  it  at  the  thought  of  remaining  in  the  tight  con¬ fines forever.  Instinct  took  over,  and  it  struggled  madly  tojree itsef.  Untested  limbs  and  still-furled  wings  fought  to  release themselves.
The  dragon  struggled  to  make  its  body  obey  its  commands. Soft  scales  scraped  across  the  shell's  interior  with  a  wet,  grat¬ ing  sound  as  it  worked  to  urfold  its  compactedform.  It  mewled in  fear  and  anger  when  the  confines  did  not  yield.  Clenched talons  opened,  splaying  new,  sharp  claws.  Jaws  moved  up  and down  as  its  head  and  neck  stretched  full  and  straight,  strain¬ ing  against  its  imprisonment.  The  shell  broke  away,  and  the hatchling— triumphant— let  out  a  roar  to  announce  its  arrival into  the  world.
Fresh  from  its  egg  and  desperately  hungry,  the  quivering creature  searched  the  cavern  with  blurry  eyes.  It  waited  for  the return  roar  qf  its  draca,  welcoming  it  to  Ijfe.  But  there  was  no answering  bellow.  No  draca —no  mother.  The  only  sound  was  a yelp  qf  surprise,  and  that  emerged  in  tandem  with  a  belch  of fetid  breath  from  the  thing  standing  some  20 feet  away. Instinct  again  took  hold,  and  the  hatchling  hissed.
Through  its  blurry,  not-yet-focused  eyes,  the  hatchling  saw that  the  thing  stood  on  two  wide  legs.  It  held  a  dragon  egg  in its  two  huge  arms,  and  no  wings  sprouted  from  its  back.  The creature  gibbered  something  the  hatchling  could  not  under¬ stand,  and  similar  noises  from  elsewhere  in  the  cavern responded.  The  hatchling  understood  only  one  thing:
That  creature  was  definitely  not  its  draca.  .  .  .
JlAlrodmkoiA
Books  One  and  Two  of  this  set  describe  how  to  create  dragon player  characters  and  provide  some  details  about  the  world  in
effects  of  shock  hamper  a  hatchling  is  determined by  its  base  Constitution  score  and  the  success  or failure  of  a  modified  Constitution  check  (see above).  The  effects  for  each  dragon  suffering hatching  shock  are  as  follows:
•  Combat  Penalty.  A  -2  penalty  is  applied  to  all attack  rolls  for  die  duration  of  the  shock.  Also, a  hatchling's  usual  +1  combat  modifier  to  all damage  rolls  for  physical  attacks  is  not  applied until  the  shock  wears  off.
•  Defensive  Penalty.  Hatchlings  receive  a  -2 penalty  to  Armor  Class  until  the  shock  wears off.  They  don’t  have  complete  mobility  when they  first  emerge  from  the  shell,  which  is reflected  by  their  being  easier  to  hit.
•  Ability  Check  Penalty.  All  ability  and  profi¬ ciency  checks  are  made  with  a  -2  penalty while  hatching  shock  is  in  effect.  A  newborn dragon's  physical  and  mental  acuity  is  not  yet in  peak  condition,  thus  the  penalty.
Ttiin^j  loRticv  ..
The  following  information  provides  DMs  with  facts about  a  variety  of  subjects  vital  to  this  adventure, including  hatchlings,  ogres,  and  the  hatchery.  Under "...  About  Hatchlings,"  the  DM  will  discover  things about  newborn  dragons  that  will  help  him  or  her deal  with  them  as  the  story  progresses.  Some  of  this information  should  also  be  passed  along  to  the  play¬ ers  to  help  them  properly  run  their  hatchling  PCs. Under "...  About  Ogres,”  DMs  find  out  about  the major  antagonists  of  the  plot.  Statistics  for  Krug  and his  cohorts  are  found  here.  Finally,  the  section  on the  hatchery  describes  the  locations  shown  on  the adventure  map  (which  is  on  page  11).
. . .  About  Hatchlings
Dragons  instinctively  know  a  select  number  of combat  and  noncombat  proficiencies  upon  hatch¬ ing,  as  per  the  rules  in  Book  One.  Dragons  learn some  of  these  proficiencies  subliminally  as  they grow  within  their  eggs.  They  learn  the  modern- languages  proficiency,  for  example,  by  listening
to  the  sounds  of  dragon  speech  that  filter  in through  their  shells.
The  same  applies  to  a  hatchling’s  name.  Upon emerging  from  its  egg,  a  dragon  knows  its  name and  clan  affiliation.  How?  When  a  female  dragon lays  an  egg,  she  instinctively  knows  the  nature  of the  hatchling  growing  within  it.  The  draca,  or dragon  mother,  spends  the  first  several  days  after laying  a  clutch  of  eggs  whispering  an  identifying phrase  over  and  over  to  each  egg  in  turn.  “You  are Agoron  of  Clan  Cloudwalker,”  a  silver  draca  might say,  murmuring  the  phrase  until  it  echoes  within the  unborn  dragon's  shell.  The  draca  will  repeat each  egg’s  phrase  until  the  baby  dragon  has imprinted  on  the  words.
The  eggs  brought  to  the  Council  Aerie  receive prehatching  instruction  as  well.  Vassals  loyal  to the  custodians  tend  the  eggs,  singing  a  teaching chant  for  hours  on  end  every  day.  The  chant  tells the  unborn  dragons  that  they  are  safe  in  the  Coun¬ cil  hatchery,  surrounded  by  unborn  dragons  from all  the  clans.  “Grow  together  in  peace  and  har¬ mony,”  the  vassals  sing,  “safe  in  a  clutch  of  metal, color,  and  gem."  Upon  hatching,  dragon  young instinctively  recognize  the  other  members  of  their Council  clutch  and  look  upon  them  as  siblings— at least  initially.  Later,  a  types'  natural  tendencies come  through,  though  these  will  be  tempered  by the  experiences  a  dragon  has  during  its  years  as  a ward  of  the  Council.
Dragon  babes  also  know  a  good  deal  about  the world  around  them.  Some  of  this  knowledge  is instinctive;  other  bits  are  learned  as  the  unborn dragons  listen  while  they  grow  within  their  eggs. They  do  not  emerge  as  know-it-all  dragon geniuses,  of  course,  but  they  have  far  more  innate knowledge  than  most  other  newborn  creatures.
Finally,  except  for  those  things  a  dragon  can  be expected  to  know  instinctively,  everything  new  to a  just-hatched  dragon  should  be  viewed  as  strange and  mysterious.  For  example,  the  hatchling  PCs should  have  no  idea  what  the  ogres  are.  They  will recognize  them  as  living  creatures  and  understand that  they  are  not  dragons,  but  beyond  that  the ogres  could  be  anything— friend  or  foe.
. .  About  Ogres
Krug  Bonebreaker  leads  a  gang  of  14  ogres  on  a raid  of  the  Council  hatchery.  They  have  stolen dragon  eggs  before,  breaking  into  lairs  in  other domains  to  loot  the  riches  stored  within  the  leath¬ ery  shells.  These  past  successes  have  given  Krug and  his  gang  the  courage  to  break  into  the  aerie. With  a  lot  of  hard  work,  the  ogres  have  dug  a  tun¬ nel  into  one  of  the  hatchery  chambers.  The  tunnel is  at  location  5.
As  leader,  Krug  is  a  powerful  and  relatively intelligent  ogre.  Standing  nearly  10  feet  tall,  he  is larger  than  most  of  his  followers.  Krug  carries  a huge  club  and  wears  a  necklace  of  dragon  scales around  his  thickly  muscled  neck.  He  is  loaded down  with  pouches  containing  gems  and  gold (totaling  872  gp).  He  acts  with  cunning,  planning how  to  best  approach  a  situation  where  other ogres  would  simply  charge  in  with  fists  flailing,
Krug  Bonebreaker,  Ogre  Leader:  Int  Avg  (10); AL  CE;  AC  3;  MV  9;  HD  7;  hp  33;  THACO  1 1;  #AT 1;  Dmg  8-18  vs.  S/M  (2d6+6)  or  7-12  vs.  L (ld6+6);  SA  +6  to  damage;  SZ  L  (10');  ML  12; XP  650.
Ogres  (14):  Int  Low  (8);  AL  CE;  AC  5;  MV  9;  HD 4+1;  hp  27,  25,  24,  23,  23,  22,  21,  21,  21,  16,  15, 14,  13,  12;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  (club)  7-12  vs. S/M  (ld6+6)  or  7-9  vs.  L  (ld3+6),  (spear)  7-12 vs.  S/M  (ld6+6)  or  7-14  vs.  L  (ld8+6);  SA  +6  to damage;  SZ  L  (9'+);  ML  12;  XP  270.
Krug  and  his  gang  believe  they  are  ready  for  any misfortune  that  might  befall  them  via  the  tunnels leading  into  the  depths  of  the  aerie.  However,  they never  considered  the  possibility  of  having  to  face dragon  hatchlings.  At  first,  depending  on  the  actions of  the  PCs,  the  ogres  will  see  the  hatchlings  as  poten¬ tial  sources  of  more  riches.  (The  giants  from  beyond the  isles  are  always  in  the  market  for  young  dragons to  use  as  slaves.)  Once  the  hatchlings  start  fighting  in earnest,  Krug  takes  their  threat  seriously  and  begins planning  a  proper  response.  He  will  use  his  men  and the  caves  to  best  advantage,  seeking  to  first  subdue or  kill  the  hatchlings  so  that  his  gang  can  finish  load¬ ing  their  carts,  If  Krug  loses  more  than  six  ogres  to the  daws  and  teeth  of  the  baby  dragons,  he  will  order the  rest  of  the  gang  to  grab  whatever  eggs  they  can and  retreat.  If  Krug  goes  down,  the  remaining  ogres flee  in  panic— though  they  will  defend  themselves  as they  head  for  the  exit  tunnel.
mm
The  rest  of  the  ogres  are  more  or  less  typical  of the  species.  They  follow  Krug’s  orders  with  few complaints  because  of  the  wealth  and  good  eating his  plans  have  brought  them.  A  couple  of  the ogres  are  wary  of  dealing  with  frost  giants  on  a regular  basis,  but  they  can’t  complain  about  the gold  the  giants  shell  out.  One  ogre  is  assigned  to each  of  the  three  carts  the  gang  has  brought  to  the hatchery.  The  large  wooden  carts  are  5  feet  wide,  7 feet  deep,  and  12  feet  long.  The  stout  wheels  are made  of  metal,  as  is  the  pull  bar  attached  to  each cart’s  front  end.  The  ogres  plan  to  fill  the  carts with  dragon  eggs  and  then  sneak  back  out  the way  they  came  in.  Each  ogre  carries  a  thick  club and  ld6  gems  worth  2d6  gp  each.  A  few  of  the ogres  also  carry  a  handful  of  spears,  as  mentioned in  the  location  descriptions.
. . .  About  the  Hatchery
The  hatchery  snakes  through  a  series  of  multilevel chambers  in  one  comer  of  the  Council  Aerie.  This particular  adventure  takes  place  in  an  isolated  por¬ tion  of  the  hatchery,  not  far  from  the  aerie’s  outer wall.  The  three  chambers  (designated  13,  14,  and 15  by  the  custodians)  are  much  the  same  as  other chambers  in  the  hatchery.  Each  has  been  carved  to resemble  a  natural  cave,  harkening  back  to  the most  ancient  lairs  of  dragonkind.  Stones enchanted  with  muted  continual  light  spells  illu¬ minate  the  chambers  with  a  warm  glow.  Soft grasses  cover  the  hard  rock  floors,  providing  cush¬ ioning  for  the  eggs.
With  few  exceptions,  the  corridors  leading  to them  are  too  small  for  most  dragons  to  traverse.  It falls  to  the  Council’s  demihuman  vassals  to  care
for  the  eggs  by  spending  time  with  them,  perform¬ ing  the  teaching  chants,  and  watching  for  the  first signs  of  hatching.
Krug  learned  about  the  small  corridors  from  a drunken  dwarf  vassal.  He  made  his  plans,  confi¬ dent  that  his  gang  could  handle  a  few  vassals  as long  as  the  old,  powerful  dragons  would  be  cut  off from  any  battles.
Specifics  concerning  key  areas  of  the  hatchery map,  shown  below,  are  as  follows:
1.  Approach  Corridor/Vestibule.  This  30- foot-wide  corridor  leads  from  other  hatchery  areas and  the  rest  of  the  aerie  to  chambers  13,  14,  and 15.  The  corridor  ends  in  a  vestibule.  Three  openings in  the  vestibule  lead  to  egg  chambers.  At  the  start  of this  adventure,  two  ogres  stand  watch  by  the  corri¬ dor,  alert  for  the  approach  of  any  of  the  Council’s vassals.  Two  now-dead  gnomes,  who  had  been working  in  the  area  and  were  surprised  by  the appearance  of  Krug  and  his  gang,  have  been dumped  beside  the  east  wall.  A  cart  waits  outside the  west  chamber.  Three  eggs  are  already  in  it.
If  the  hatchlings  take  out  the  three  ogres  in  their chamber  quickly  and  with  as  little  noise  as  possible, they  could  sneak  out  and  surprise  the  ogre  guards stationed  here.  If  they  make  a  lot  of  noise,  one  of the  guards  will  remain  in  his  spot  while  the  other goes  to  investigate.  If  an  ogre  emerges  from  the chamber  to  sound  the  alarm,  the  guards  will  take  up defensive  positions  facing  the  chamber  opening.  In this  case,  they  use  the  spears  they  carry  as  missile weapons  until  the  rest  of  the  ogres  can  be  mustered. Each  ogre  guard  carries  four  spears.
2.  Chamber  13.  Unhatched  dragon  eggs  fill  this chamber.  There  are  21  eggs  of  assorted  draconic origin  incubating  peacefully  under  the  muted  light of  glowing  stones.  Krug  and  six  of  his  gang  mem¬ bers  are  moving  through  the  chamber,  trying  to determine  which  eggs  are  most  valuable.  They  are examining  each  egg,  looking  for  telltale  traces  of precious  metals  or  gems  in  the  shells  themselves.
A  secret  portal  hidden  in  the  rock  wall  leads  to  a passage  that  connects  to  chamber  14  (location  3). The  ogres  don’t  know  about  this  passage,  if  Krug
winds  up  defending  himself  in  this  chamber,  he  can roll  once  each  round  to  spot  the  portal.  (He  notices  it on  the  roll  of  1  on  ld6.)  Of  course,  he  can  only search  for  the  passage  during  a  round  when  that’s ail  he’s  doing  (besides  issuing  commands).  Thus  he must  be  alone  or  defended  by  his  ogres.
Two  of  the  ogres  here  carry  spears  (two  apiece) . If  trouble  starts,  Krug  orders  his  men  to  fill  the  cart with  whichever  eggs  are  closest.  He  commands two  of  them  to  take  the  filled  cart  and  flee.  Then  he leads  the  other  four  toward  the  source  of  trouble. If  the  hatchlings  keep  the  sounds  of  battle  to  a minimum,  they  can  surprise  the  ogres  in  this chamber  by  approaching  via  the  secret  passage. Surprise  isn't  possible  through  the  main  opening.
3.  Chamber  14.  The  largest  of  the  three  chambers is  also  the  one  containing  the  fewest  eggs.  A  huge  pil¬ lar  of  stone  divides  the  chamber,  making  it  impossible to  see  from  one  end  to  the  other.  The  hatchling  PCs emerge  from  their  eggs  in  this  location.  Their  clutch  of eggs  is  in  the  northeast  corner  of  the  chamber,  and that's  where  they  start  the  adventure.
Three  ogres  are  searching  this  area  when  the PCs  emerge.  They  have  one  cart,  but  they  have  not yet  deposited  any  eggs  into  it.  One  ogre  stands near  the  hatching  PCs.  He  carries  a  single  dragon egg.  See  “Event  One:  First  Contact”  for  details  on this  initial  encounter.
The  gnome  vassal  waiting  to  welcome  the hatchlings  was  overcome  by  the  ogres.  Her  shat¬ tered  body  lies  near  a  stone  pillar.  Though  they think  she  is  dead,  she  is  only  unconscious,  Her wounds  are  grievous,  though,  and  she  will  die  if she  does  not  receive  help  within  two  hours.  At  the start  of  play,  roll  1  d6+6  to  determine  how  many turns  the  gnome  has  left.  Then  roll  ldlO  to  deter¬ mine  which  round  in  that  turn  will  be  her  last.  For example,  on  a  roll  of  3  and  a  roll  of  7  respectively, the  gnome  dies  from  her  wounds  at  the  end  of  the seventh  round  of  turn  nine  (3+6=9) .
TWo  secret  portals  lead  to  hidden  corridors  that  con¬ nect  to  the  other  chambers.  The  hatchlings  are  not  ini¬ tially  aware  of  these  portals,  though  they  can  find  them normally  if  they  decide  to  search  the  chamber  walls.
roll  a  5  or  less  to  break  free.  No  matter  how  large the  bonus  or  penalty,  a  roll  of  1  is  always  a  suc¬ cess  and  a  roll  of  20  is  always  a  failure.  In  the round  after  the  ogre  grabs  (successfully  attacks) the  hatchling,  he  stuffs  it  in  the  sack.
After  this  first  round  of  action,  roll  for  initiative normally.  The  most  likely  courses  of  action  are outlined  below.
If  the  PCs  decide  not  to  attack,  the  ogre  continues grabbing  and  stuffing  until  he  finally  has  the  hatch¬ ling  in  his  sack.  Then  he  heads  off  to  show  Krug what  he  captured.  The  other  two  ogres  wait  around, watching  the  hatchlings  but  making  no  hostile moves  unless  the  PCs  try  to  leave  the  chamber.  In ld6+2  rounds,  Krug  and  six  ogres  arrive  with  large sacks  to  capture  the  remaining  hatchlings.
If  the  PCs  decide  to  attack  the  ogre,  the  ogre  will fight  back.  The  other  two  ogres,  if  not  attacked  by the  PCs,  will  simply  stand  around  for  ld4+l rounds  and  watch  the  fight,  making  fun  of  their companion.  “Did  the  little  baby  bite  you?”  one teases.  “Don’t  be  a  goblin!  They’re  only  babiesV giggles  the  other.  After  the  rounds  have  passed  or once  a  PC  attacks  one  of  the  other  ogres,  all  three invaders  join  in  to  subdue  or  kill  the  hatchlings.  If an  ogre  goes  down,  the  other  two  will  attempt  to escape  to  warn  Krug  and  the  other  ogres.
Once  the  battle  against  these  three  monsters ends  (ogres  defeated,  ogres  fleeing,  etc.),  go immediately  to  “Event  Two:  First  Lesson.”
SoedlQo:  f kd  temm
The  hatchlings  have  either  defeated  the  three  ogres from  “Event  One”  or  have  caused  one  or  more  of  them to  flee  from  the  chamber  to  alert  Krug  and  the  rest  of the  gang.  The  gnome  vassal  now  begins  to  regain  con¬ sciousness,  despite  her  serious  wounds.  Speaking  in the  language  of  the  metallic  dragons,  she  provides  the hatchlings  with  the  following  information:
7,  Sviliffa,  welcome  you  to  life,  hatchling  mas¬ ters.  I  am  sony  that  your  emergence  has  not  gone more  smoothly.  I  was  to  guide  you from  these chambers  into  the  place  prepared for  you  by  the
custodians.  But  I  am  dying,  and  those  foul  crea¬ tures — those  ogres — are  stealing  the  eggs  oj dragons !  This  outrage  must  not  continue.  .  .  . " Sviliffa  coughs  as  pain  wracks  her  wounded  body. With  great  effort,  she  continues.
“Listen  well,  young  masters:  The  ogres  are  pow¬ erful  creatures,  but  you  are  dragons!  What  does  it matter  that  you  are  newborn  and  inexperienced? The  least  among  you  is  greater  than  the  strongest ogre.  Believe  that,  and  it  will  be  true.  Secret  pas¬ sages  exist,  leadingjrom  this  chamber  into  those bqrond.  Make  use  of  them  and  surprise  will  be  on your  side.  One  can  be  found  on  the  south  wall,  and one  on  the  west.  Be  cartful,  be  proud,  and  work  in harmony,  as  Great  Io  once  commanded. ..."
The  gnome  vassal  succumbs  to  pain  at  this point,  falling  back  into  unconsciousness  until  her wounds  are  treated  or  she  dies.  None  of  the  hatch¬ lings  have  the  knowledge  or  abilities  to  help Sviliffa,  Without  attention,  she  will  die  as  outlined under  location  3  above.  The  best  the  hatchlings can  do  is  to  seek  help  from  the  Council's  vessals.
After  Sviliffa  falls  into  unconsciousness  again, the  PCs  must  determine  a  course  of  action.  What they  will  find  in  the  various  chambers  is  detailed under  “Things  to  Know”  above.  At  some  point, Krug  will  notice  them  and  the  climax  begins;  go  to “Event  Three.”
&miykree:  Kru^
No  matter  what  course  the  hatchlings  pursue, eventually  they  must  face  Krug,  the  ogre  leader. How  Krug  reacts  to  the  PCs  depends  on  what  they have  done  up  to  this  point.
If  the  PCs  defeated  the  first  three  ogres  quietly,  they might  be  able  to  sneak  up  on  Krug  using  the  secret passages.  For  the  scenario  to  work  out  this  way,  the hatchlings  have  to  work  together,  make  good  die  rolls, and  get  close  to  Krug  without  him  noticing  them.  In this  case,  the  major  battle  takes  place  in  chamber  13 (location  2)  amid  plenty  of  eggs  and  ogres.
If  the  hatchlings  decide  not  to  attack  during  the  ini¬ tial  encounter,  Krug  and  six  ogres  arrive  in  chamber
14  (location  3)  carrying  large  sacks.  They  plan  to  cap¬ ture  the  dragon  babes,  and  it  will  be  up  to  the  PCs  to “dissuade”  them  from  this  course  of  action.  Krug  is persistent,  but  if  the  PCs  prove  to  be  too  much  trouble to  take  alive,  he  orders  his  men  to  kill  them.
If  the  PCs  are  spotted  by  the  guards  in  location 1,  the  adventure  becomes  a  running  battle  through the  vestibule  and  chambers.  Krug  orders  his  ogres to  capture  or  destroy  the  young  dragons,  directing them  in  an  intelligent  offense.  He  orders  his  spear throwers  to  attack  first,  then  sends  at  least  two ogres  after  each  dragon  to  overpower  them.
Krug  will  join  in  any  fight,  but  only  when  it  best suits  his  purposes.  He  is  a  hands-on  leader,  but  he isn’t  impulsive  or  stupid.  When  he  can  strike  and make  a  difference  he  will.  When  the  odds  are  against him,  he  stays  back  and  tries  to  rally  his  gang,
Krug  initially  treats  the  hatchlings  as  something amusing.  He  treats  the  hatchlings  as  he  would treat  an  ogre  baby— speaking  to  them  in  a  high voice,  using  simple  words  (even  for  an  ogre),  and showing  a  total  lack  of  respect.  He  doesn't  take  the hatchlings  seriously  at  all.  Later,  as  they  demon¬ strate  their  ability  to  deal  with  his  gang,  Krug becomes  enraged,  screaming,  “1  will  not  be defeated  by  babiesl  Not  even  dragon  babies  are the  equal  of  Krug  Bonebreaker!”  The  PCs  should do  everything  possible  to  prove  him  wrong.
When  Krug  is  defeated  or  has  escaped,  go  on  to “Concluding  the  Adventure.”
CowchAdiiA^lke  Ad^enkire
If  Krug  is  killed  while  fighting,  his  gang  rushes  for the  exit.  The  hatchlings  can  pursue  the  fleeing ogres  or  let  them  escape.  If  pursued,  the  ogres  will defend  themselves.
If  the  hatchlings  do  not  defeat  or  drive  off  the ogres,  they  will  be  captured  or  killed  by  Krug  and his  gang.  Captured  hatchlings  will  be  taken  north and  sold  to  the  frost  giants  from  beyond  the  Ice Sea.  DMs  are  encouraged  to  develop  a  scenario  in which  the  PCs  have  a  chance  to  make  an  escape. Ideally,  such  an  attempt  should  occur  before  the ogres  actually  reach  the  rendezvous,  as  hatchlings
are  no  match  for  a  group  of  frost  giants.
If  the  adventure  played  out  successfully,  Krug  has been  killed  and  his  gang  has  been  defeated  or  is fleeing  from  the  aerie.  Among  Krug’s  possessions  is a  gold  coin  bearing  the  marks  of  the  frost-giant raider,  Odifal.  The  hatchlings  have  no  idea  what  this means,  but  the  custodians  do.  They  discern  that  the giants  are  ultimately  responsible  for  the  raids  carried out  by  Krug  and  others— and  the  giants  will  have  to be  dealt  with  at  some  future  time.
Any  fleeing  ogres  can  be  captured  or  killed  by the  custodians  and  their  vassals  once  the  hatch¬ lings  alert  them  to  the  danger.  In  addition,  if Sviliffa  is  still  alive,  she  can  be  healed  by  priests from  the  vassal  tribes.
The  adventure  ends  with  the  hatchlings  receiving welcome  from  the  custodians  and  vassals.  There  are  . no  apologies  for  what  the  newborns  endured,  how¬ ever,  for  dragons  are  supposed  to  be  made  of  stern enough  stuff  to  handle  even  the  worst  first  day. “Consider  this  your  first  lesson,"  Mykell  tells  them  in a  firm,  friendly  voice.  “It  won’t  be  your  last.  ’’  '
Awarding  experience
In  addition  to  the  experience  points  awarded  for defeating  the  ogres,  the  following  outcomes  war¬ rant  greater  rewards:
•  If  the  hatchlings  help  save  Sviliffa’s  life,  they
receive  an  additional  1 ,000  XP  each.  1
•  If  the  PCs  manage  to  defeat  the  ogres  without losing  a  single  dragon  egg,  give  them  a  bonus of  1,000  experience  points  each.
•  If  the  ogres  escape  the  aerie  with  any  eggs, even  if  the  ogres  are  subsequently  captured, experience  awards  should  be  reduced  by  100  . points  per  stolen  egg.  If  any  eggs  break, reduce  awards  by  25Q-points  each.
•  A  story  award  of  10,000  to  15,000  XP  should be  given  to  each  hatchling,  depending  on  how the  adventure  turned  out  and  how  well  they role-played.  Good  role-playing  includes  stay¬ ing  in  character,  acting  like  a  naive,  inexperi¬ enced  newborn  dragon,  and  coming  up  with draconic  solutions  to  the  situations.
Ad^ewure  Two:
■ok  Bko(
^  dragons  approached  the  village  on  shaky  wings,  fir ■  jeffl  learning  the  subtleties  oj flight  and  qf gauging
the  morning  breeze.  The  vassal  village,  located  in  a  small  clear¬ ing  beside  a  swift-moving  river  in  the  northernfirest  of  Majyst Island,  appeared  quiet  fir  middcff.  Closer  the  young  dragons flew,  and  they  saw  a  large  mob  qf  dwarves  crowding  around  a sturdy  cage.
The  dwarves  closest  to  the  cage  held  sharp-tipped  spears  at  the ready,  business  ends  aimed  into  the  cage.  As  the  young  dragons landed,  one  dwarf  dressed  in  the  garb  ofa  village  elder  called  out, "On  n\y  mark,  the  invader  dies!  ’  Spears  drew  back  and  arm  mus¬ cles  tensed.  Then  another  voice  called  out,  deeper,  more  com¬ manding-demanding  the  attention  qfall  present.
The  young  dragons  turned  to  see  a  large  amethyst  dragon perched  atop  aflat  rock  overlooking  the  village.  "Stop, "  the amethyst  ordered.  “Justice  can  wait  until  qfter  we  have  greeted our  guests.  ...”
jAiroJmk
Color  Blind  finds  a  group  of  2nd-  to  3rd-level  dragon  PCs  visit¬ ing  an  amethyst  dragon  vassal  village.  The  dwarves  of  the  vil¬ lage  have  captured  a  very  young  white  dragon,  and  three  of  the village  elders  cannot  wait  to  put  the  white  to  death.  The  PCs,  as representatives  of  the  Council  of  Wyrms,  must  find  a  way  to convince  the  village’s  draconic  lord  that  something  rotten  is going  on— then  they  have  to  determine  what  that  is  before  the white  is  killed.
This  adventure  is  designed  for  four  to  six  very  young  to  young dragon  PCs  (2nd-  and  3rd-level  dragons).  These  dragons  still work  for  the  Council  of  Wyrms,  and  the  adventure  springs  from  a benign  mission  they  are  sent  to  accomplish.
As  with  the  other  adventures  in  this  book,  Dungeon  Masters are  encouraged  to  expand  the  plot  with  more  encounters, events  pertinent  to  their  campaigns,  and  additional  personali¬ ties  for  the  PCs  to  role-olav  with.
•j
ft
Ov^rvif’w
The  dwarves  of  Clan  Majyst’s  vassal  village  of Dwarftown  have  something  to  hide.  The  three  vil¬ lage  elders — Hammerim,  Malletal,  and  Naluri — each  have  a  secret  they  will  go  to  any  lengths  to keep,  even  murder,  Each  secret  revolves  around  a very  young  white  dragon,  and  therein  lies  the  crux of  this  adventure.
Hammerim  oversees  the  village’s  metallurgy operations.  As  a  side  venture,  he  has  been  selling a  significant  portion  of  the  mine’s  output  to  Clan Evilwood — without  the  approval  of  his  amethyst lords.  The  white  dragon  happened  upon  a  secret exchange  Hammerim  was  conducting  in  the  forest, and  Hammerim  is  sure  the  white  took  notice  of  the dwarf,  the  green  dragons,  and  a  load  of  processed metal  that  was  changing  hands.
Malletal  has  been  looking  the  other  way  for  the last  few  years,  even  though  his  job  includes patrolling  the  northern  forests.  For  an  annual  gift of  diamonds,  the  dwarf  ignores  the  small  white dragon  hunting  party  that  invades  the  forest  once a  year  to  supplement  its  food  supply.  The  very young  white  dragon  was  a  member  of  the  most recent  hunting  party,  and  his  capture  by  the  vil¬ lage  could  reveal  details  that  Malletal  would rather  keep  hidden.
Naluri  finds  the  white  to  be  a  great  threat  to  her plans,  and  she  wants  nothing  less  than  to  see  him dead  before  her  secret  can  be  brought  to  light. Naluri  has  been  helping  Odifal,  the  frost-giant  raid¬ ing  chief  who  has  been  plundering  the  northern isles  for  years  now.  In  her  most  recent  meeting  with the  frost  giant,  she  received  the  orders  she  has waited  a  lifetime  to  hear.  For  a  wrong  she  believes was  committed  against  her  family  long  ago  by  Lord Gemmenna  of  Clan  Majyst,  Naluri  has  built  up  a strong  hatred  and  thirst  for  revenge.  In  her  recent meeting  with  Odifal— a  meeting  witnessed  by  the white  dragon— Naluri  convinced  the  frost-giant chief  to  turn  his  attention  toward  Majyst  Isle.  All  of her  plans  for  revenge  could  come  to  naught  if  the white  reveals  what  he  overheard.
As  the  adventure  begins,  the  white  dragon  sits  in
a  sturdy  cage.  Arrows  still  jut  from  the  very  young dragon’s  body,  including  one  lodged  in  his  throat that  prevents  him  from  speaking.  The  elders  call  for the  white’s  death,  appealing  to  Keryst  the  amethyst dragon  to  let  them  carry  out  justice.  With  the  arrival of  the  PCs,  however,  Keryst  orders  the  dwarves  to lay  down  their  weapons  and  show  their  guests  a proper  welcome  in  the  name  of  Clan  Majyst.
The  PCs  have  been  sent  to  Dwarftown  to  pick  up a  golden  talon  ring  that  Mykell,  Grand  Custodian of  the  Council,  had  commissioned  some  months back.  Luck  and  a  bit  of  coincidence  have  brought the  PCs  to  this  place  in  time  to  stop  an  invasion— if they  realize  that  there  is  more  going  on  than  a simple  trial.  The  white  appeals  to  them  for  help, making  unintelligible  sounds  and  cryptic  gestures to  the  Council  representatives.
Once  the  PCs  learn  what  the  situation  is,  then some  detective  work  will  be  in  order.  Because  the white  dragon  cannot  speak  and  has  no  other  way to  communicate,  the  PCs  will  have  to  use  other methods  for  finding  out  what  the  white  is  trying to  tell  them.  Ample  evidence  can  be  found  in  the forest  around  Dwarftown.  As  the  PCs  get  closer to  the  truth,. however,  “accidents"  begin  to  occur. The  dragon  PCs  are  in  danger  from  three  different directions,  as  three  different  and  unrelated  vil¬ lains  seek  to  keep  their  secrets  safe.  Will  they  get to  the  bottom  of  the  mystery  before  an  accident takes  them  down?  Will  they  uncover  Hammer- im's  dealings  with  the  green  dragons?  Will  they find  out  how  Malletal  supplements  his  income? More  important,  will  they  discover  Naluri’s  ties  to the  frost-giant  raiders  in  time  to  stop  the  immi¬ nent  invasion?  Those  are  the  questions  facing the  dragon  player  characters  in  this  problem¬ solving  adventure.
Mykell,  Grand  Custodian  of  the  Council  of  Wyrms, gives  her  young  dragon  charges  a  simple  mission. As  background  to  Color  Blind,  read  the  following to  the  players:
Since  hatching,  your  days  have  been  Med  with
all  kinds  of  activities.  Vassals  have  taught  you  his-  'Ttiji/iA-  |"’KMC>W
toiy  and  other  scholarly  subjects.  Older  dragons
have  instructed  you  in  draconic  lessons,  demon-  Here  are  the  facts  and  statistics  the  DM  needs  to
stinting  combat  techniques  and  explaining  the  pur-  properly  run  this  adventure.  You’ll  find  informa-
poseqf  the  Council  ofWyrms.  Most  recently  Mykell,  tion  concerning  the  white  dragon  and  what
the  chief  custodian,  gaveyou  a  special  mission.  occurred  before  the  start  of  the  adventure,  the  vil-
“ You  will  go  to  Majystlsle,  to  the  vassal  village  Iage  elders  and  their  malicious  secrets,  the
oj  Dwarf  town  in  the  northern  forest, "  Mykell  amethyst  dragon  Keryst,  and  Dwarftown. explained  to  you  in  her  deep,  even  voice.  “There
you  will  seek  out  the  dwarf  elder  Hammerim  and  . . .  About  the  Very  Young  White  Dragon present  this  great  pearl  on  my  behalf.  ln  exchange,
Hammerim  will  give  you  a  gold  talon  ring  that  I  The  very  young  white  dragon  Snowfire  was  a commissioned  with  the  blessing  of  Gemmenna,  member  of  a  hunting  party  that  regularly  visits  the lord  of  Clan  Mqjyst. "  northern  forests  of  Majyst  Isle.  The  hunting  party,
The  custodianfixed  each  qfyou  with  her  most  which  hails  from  the  Frostwind  Domain  in  the
penetrating  stare,  then  added,  "You  will  be  repre-  southern  reaches  of  Glacianta,  has  been  making
seating  not  on(y  Mykell,  Grand  Custodian,  in  your  annual  forays  into  the  Majyst  forests  for  the  past
travels,  but  the  entire  Council  as  well.  Work  10  seasons.  This  was  the  first  time  Snowfire
together  as  we  have  taught  you.  Do  not  let  the  tagged  along,  and  it  was  to  be  used  as  a  training
prejudices  of  your  different  species  cause  you  to  exercise  for  the  inexperienced  white.
lose  sight  qf  the  laws  qf  Great  lo.  You  have  done  Snowfire  is  only  six  years  old.  With  an  8- well  so  far,  n\y  children.  Now,  do  even  better. ”  foot-long  body  and  a  7-foot-long  tail,  he  is  barely
of  average  size  for  a  white  dragon  his  age.  He  only The  dragon  PCs,  still  working  together  as  stu-  speaks  and  understands  chromatic  dragon,  and  he
dents  of  the  Council,  receive  a  great  pearl  of  has  not  yet  learned  to  read  or  write,  He  can  fly,  can
extreme  value  and  directions  on  how  to  get  to  deliver  two  claw  attacks  per  round,  and  has
Dwarftown  from  the  Council  Aerie.  Just  by  the  size  learned  to  hunt  from  his  older  brothers’(the  other
of  the  pearl,  they  should  come  to  the  conclusion  white  dragons  that  accompanied  him  to  Majyst
that  Hammerim  is  either  a  great  craftsman  or  has  Isle) .  Because  of  wounds  he  received  before  being
great  craftsmen  working  for  him.  Otherwise,  the  captured  by  the  dwarves,  Snowfire  has  been
mission  sounds  simple  enough  for  the  small  group  reduced  to  14  hit  points.  His  other  vital  statistics
of  young  dragons  to  accomplish.  Does  Mykell  are  shown  below,
believe  all  of  them  are  necessary  for  going  on  such
an  errand?  No,  but  she  does  believe  in  the  value  of  Snowfire,  Very  Young  White  Dragon:  Int  Low
teaching  the  young  dragons  how  to  work  together.  (7);  AL  CE;  AC  3:  MV  12,  fl  40  (C);  HD  7;  hp  14
And  if  any  trouble  should  happen  to  occur,  there  is  (36  at  full  strength);  THACO  14;  #AT  2;  Dmg
strength  in  numbers.  3-8/3-8  ( 1  d6+2) ;  SA  +2  to  damage;  SD  immune  to
As  they  approach  the  vassal  village  from  the  air  cold;  SZ  L  (151  from  nose  to  tail);  ML  10.  Coi
(assuming  all  of  the  dragon  PCs  have  the  dragon  proficiencies:  bite,  claw/claw,  kick,  flight,  s
flight  proficiency  by  this  time),  the  PCs  can’t  help  Noncombat  proficiencies:  alertness,  hunting,
but  notice  the  large  mob  of  dwarves  crowded  guage  (chromatic  dragon),  navigation,  trackin
around  a  cage  in  an  open  square.  Go  to  “Event
One:  Something  Rotten  in  Dwarftown.”  Before  The  very  young  white  accompanied  two  c that,  read  over  “Things  to  Know"  to  find  details  white  dragons  to  Majyst.  They  met  Malletal  i
important  to  the  course  of  the  adventure.  isolated  clearing  somewhere  on  the  dwarfs  no
patrol  route.  To  give  Snowfire  a  sense  of  impor¬ tance,  he  was  granted  the  privilege  of  handing over  the  small  pouch  of  diamonds  to  the  dwarf elder.  Malletal  accepted  the  gift,  wished  the 1  dragons  good  hunting,  then  turned  around  to  head '■  .  back  to  the  village.
Their  hunting  pattern  finally  took  the  white dragons  out  of  the  forest  and  to  the  north  shore  of the  island.  Snowfire  stalked  a  large  stag  to  the  tree line— then  let  it  escape  as  his  attention  was  drawn to  the  group  gathered  at  the  water’s  edge.  He i  watched  in  confusion  and  fear  as  a  female  dwarf -  conversed  with  five  frost  giants.  The  very  young ' ,.  white  knew  to  fear  the  giants,  for  he  heard  many 'stories  about  the  terrible  things  the  huge , .  humanoids  liked  to  do  to  his  kind.  Frozen  in  place, J  ;  he  listened  to  words  he  didn’t  understand.  But  the '  meaning  of  the  exchange  did  not  escape  him.  The *  dwarf  was  friends  with  the  giants,  for  they  gave V  her  a  gift  like  the  one  he  gave  the  other  dwarf, w  ,  Suddenly  the  other  two  white  dragons  burst U  out  of  the  forest  in  close  pursuit  of  a  herd  of  deer.
'  " 1  So  intent  were  they  upon  their  prey,  they  did  not 1 1  notice  the  frost  giants  until  after  the  first  blows p  were  struck.  Then  it  was  too  late.  Snowfire ,//  watched  in  horror  as  the  frost  giants  slashed  and >'i  hacked  his  teachers  with  huge  battle  axes.  He 1 '  1  found  his  voice  as  the  white  dragons  went  down, j,  '  and  his  scream  of  outrage  and  fear  resounded "  through  the  forest.
The  giants  gave  chase,  but  were  wary  of  going ‘p  '  too  far  into  the  forest  at  this  point.  The  plans they  had  set  in  motion  depended  upon  the amethyst  dragons  remaining  unaware  of  their presence.  So  they  commanded  Naluri  to  track ■  ■  down  the  white  dragon  and  silence  it  while  they returned  to  their  hidden  camp  on  Glacianta  to y,  await  her  signal.  If  the  signal  is  not  delivered  at the  agreed  upon  time,  they  will  know  she  has > ' '  failed  and  will  cancel  the  attack.
’  Snowfire  flew  through  the  forest  on  wings  given ■'  strength  by  unabashed  terror.  He  had  no  idea where  he  was  going.  He  only  knew  he  had  to  get ^  ‘  away  from  the  slashing  battle  axes.  Ignoring  the y  tree  branches  that  scraped  his  body  and  the
unseen  trunks  that  hurt  when  he  failed  to  maneu¬ ver  around  them  in  time,  he  zoomed  along  without rhyme  or  reason.  He  might  have  escaped  com¬ pletely,  had  he  not  run  into  Hammerim  and  a  small group  of  green  dragons  on  the  other  side  of  a  thick canopy  of  leaves.
The  green  dragons  were  busy  exchanging gems  for  metal.  Hammerim  barely  had  time  to raise  his  axe  when  Snowfire  burst  into  the  clear¬ ing.  He  took  a  mighty  swipe  at  the  dragon,  deliv¬ ery  a  serious  wound.  A  green  followed  thiS'  up with  a  blast  of  poisonous  breath,  but  Snowfire saved  for  half  damage.  In  the  meantime,  NaltiiSv ran  into  a  patrol  of  dwarf  warriors.  She  took  com¬ mand  of  the  unit  and  sent  it  to  follow  the  white dragon’s  obvious  flight  path  through  the  broken branches  and  shredded  plants.  Hearing  the  dwarf patrol  closing,  Hammerim  urged  the  green dragons  to  flee  while  he  quickly  hid  his  payment in  the  bushes.  The  green  dragons  retreated— but not  before  one  of  them  slashed  Snowfire’s  throat with  a  rake  of  its  sharp  claws.
A  moment  later,  the  patrol  entered  the  clearing and  let  loose  a  volley  of  arrows.  Most  clattered harmlessly  off  the  white  dragon’s  armored  scales, but  a  few  found  purchase  in  soft  spots.  One  arrow buried  itself  deeply  in  Snowfire’s  neck  wound,  fur¬ ther  injuring  his  vocal  cords  and  making  it  impos¬ sible  for  him  to  talk.  Naluri  commanded  the  patrol to  advance  and  finish  the  white  dragon  off.  Ham¬ merim  seconded  the  order.  But  the  patrol’s  com¬ mander,  a  young  dwarf  named  Torvin,  changed the  order.
“Keryst,  a  dragon  champion  of  Clan  Majyst, currently  waits  in  Dwarftown,”  Torvin  said  with great  authority.  “He  should  be  allowed  to  decide the  invader’s  fate.”  The  elders  grumbled,  but  they didn’t  protest  too  loudly  as  nets  were  thrown over  the  white  dragon  and  it  was  hauled  back  to the  village.
Snowfire  was  placed  in  a  hastily  constructed  yet sturdy  cage  in  the  center  of  the  village.  His  wounds were  left  untended,  and  a  few  arrows  still  jut  from bloody  punctures.  Confused,  hurt,  and  afraid,  the dragon  now  huddles  in  the  middle  of  the  cage.  He
and  thanks.  The  deal  complete,  he  hopes  to  see  the Council’s  representatives  on  their  way  as  quickly !  as  possible.
Hammerim,  Male  Dwarf  Elder:  AL  LN;  AC  4;  MV 11  6;  FS ;  hp  62;  THACO  13;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  2-9
'  .  (Id8+1);  SA  +1  to  hit,  +1  damage;  SD  +4  save  vs. poison,  wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4'4") ;  ML  14.  Str  17, Dex  11,  Con  16,  Int  13,  Wis  9,  Cha  14.
. . .  About  Elder  Malletal
;  Elder  Malletal  commands  the  Dwarftown  militia and  personally  leads  the  patrols  of  the  northern 1 forests.  He  does  his  Job  very  well  and  treats  his ■’  *  'duty  with  great  seriousness.  Ogres,  bugbears, v ,  goblins,  giants— he  watches  fastidiously  for  any }  ;  signs  of  these  interlopers  and  takes  a  personal affront  to  their  presence.  However,  Malletal  also ,  has  a  love  for  diamonds.  His  secret  begins  with V  this  powerful  craving.
A  number  of  years  ago,  Malletal  surprised  a '/Lf  small  group  of  white  dragons  who  had  just  brought down  four  large  deer.  Outraged  that  these  dragons ■  had  invaded  his  forest,  Malletal  prepared  to  call  for the  rest  of  his  patrol.  That’s  when  one  of  the dragons  moved  forward  and  held  out  a  bulging *'i  pouch.  Curious,  Malletal  cautiously  took  the offered  pouch  and  peered  inside.  A  huge  smile ; ,  j  spread  across  his  face  as  he  poured  the  diamonds '  into  his  palm.  “I  believe  that  a  little  extra  hunting won’t  hurt,”  he  said.  “The  herds  need  thinning
,  .  white  dragon  with  them  for  his  first  hunt.  They even  let  it  offer  the  gift  of  diamonds  to  Malletal.  At '  ■  -  the  time,  Malletal  was  touched  by  the  somber  air ;  the  very  young  dragon  approached  him  with.  Now I'm  he  curses  the  luck  that  the  dragon  has  been  cap- tured  and  could  reveal  embarrassing  details  to  the '  ’  rest  of  the  village.  The  dragon  has  even  appealed ■>,  to  him  with  silent  gestures  and  sad  eyes.  So  far, f  Malletal  doesn’t  think  anyone  else  has  noticed,  but he  hopes  they  can  kill  the  dragon  soon  so  that  he ’  ‘  *  can  stop  worrying  about  what  might  occur.
Decked  out  in  the  finest  plate  mail  and  armed
with  an  enchanted  war  hammer  +2,  Malletal  looks like  the  powerful  warrior  he  is.  He  is  extremely serious,  always  ready  for  a  fight,  and  very  protec¬ tive  of  the  village  and  the  forest  around  it.  He  feels very  guilty  about  letting  the  white  dragons  hunt  in the  forest  once  a  year,  and  he  will  do  everything  in his  power  to  keep  his  secret  safe.  Even  so,  he promises  that  the  white  dragons  will  not  be allowed  access  to  the  forest  again — no  matter  how many  diamonds  they  offer  him.
As  commander  of  the  village  guard,  Malletal makes  every  effort  to  convince  the  amethyst dragon  champion  that  the  white  dragon  poses  a danger  to  the  community.  “For  the  crimes  of  hunt¬ ing  on  clan  land  alone,  he  should  be  put  to  death."
Malletal,  Male  Dwarf  Elder:  AL  LN;  AC  2;  MV  6; F10;  hp  74;  THACO  11;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg  5-8 (ld4+4);  SA  +1  damage;  SD  +4  save  vs.  poison, wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4’7”);  ML  16.  Str  16,  Dex  15, Con  15,  Int  12,  Wis  11,  Cha  10.
Elder  Naluri  serves  as  chief  administrator  of Dwarftown  Village.  She  handles  all  the  day-to-day problems  and  decisions  needed  to  keep  the  village running.  She  reports  to  the  clan’s  dominates,  espe¬ cially  to  Keryst,  the  champion  who  currently  over¬ sees  the  vassals  of  this  community.  Outwardly,  she plays  the  fawning  servant  to  Keryst.  Inwardly,  she considers  the  dragon  champion  to  be  an  easily duped  fool.  She  wields  a  shore  sword  + 2  when combat  becomes  unavoidable,  and  carries  a  potion of  amethyst  dragon  control  that  she  will  use  if  the situation  turns  against  her.  Her  secret  dates  back to  her  grandfather,  who  fostered  a  hatred  of  Clan Majyst  that  has  festered  to  this  day.
Naluri’s  grandfather  was  once  Lord  Gemmenna’s kindred,  taking  his  own  father’s  place  when  the time  came  for  Gemmenna  to  bond  with  another. His  family  had  been  proudly  serving  in  this  capac¬ ity  since  Gemmenna  was  a  hatchling.  After  only  a few  short  weeks,  Gemmenna  dismissed  Naluri’s grandfather.  The  dragon  lord  just  did  not  feel  an
affinity  for  the  dwarf.  Her  action,  however,  caused the  family  to  suffer  disgrace— at  least  in  the  mind of  Naluri’s  grandfather.
As  Naluri  grew  up,  she  was  raised  on  a  diet  of her  grandfather's  hatred  and  disappointment.  She listened  to  his  heartache,  took  hold  of  his  bitter¬ ness,  and  made  his  hatred  her  own.  She  promised to  one  day  avenge  the  wrong  her  grandfather  suf¬ fered,  to  make  Gemmenna  and  Clan  Majyst  pay  for disgracing  her  family.  She  has  dedicated  her  life  to accomplishing  this.
Six  years  earlier,  Naluri  received  a  report  from Malletal  concerning  frost  giant  activity  in  the  islands to  the  north.  Naluri  thanked  Malletal  for  his  dili¬ gence,  told  him  to  keep  a  watchful  eye,  then  readied a  ship  for  the  annual  trip  to  Clan  Corum’s  domain  on Glacianta.  During  the  trip  to  trade  with  the  other amethyst  dragon  dan,  Naluri  took  time  to  locate  the frost  giants.  The  giants  almost  killed  her  before  she could  convince  Odifal  to  hear  her  out.  She  offered her  aid  to  the  frost-giant  chief,  promising  informa¬ tion  that  would  make  his  raids  more  profitable.  Odi¬ fal  listened,  then  agreed  to  let  her  assist  his  raiders.
Over  the  years,  Naluri  passed  along  news  of approaching  trade  ships,  the  movements  of patrols,  and  even  the  flight  of  dragons  toward  the northern  isles.  She  fostered  trust  and  a  working relationship  with  the  giants  in  anticipation  of  one day  convincing  them  to  aid  her.  She  finally  set  up a  meeting  with  Odifal— a  meeting  witnessed  by the  very  young  white  dragon.  During  that  meet¬ ing,  Naluri  urged  Odifal  to  come  to  Majyst  Isle. “This  should  be  the  center  of  your  activity,  Chief Odifal,”  Naluri  coaxed.  “The  dragons  of  Majyst are  more  prosperous  than  the  dragons  of Glacianta,  and  this  island  is  closer  to  the  wealthy domains  of  the  temperate  isles.  I  have  prepared  a hidden  lair  for  you  and  your  raiders  in  an  aban¬ doned  part  of  our  mine.”
Odifal  was  intrigued  by  this  offer,  for  he  had long  coveted  the  riches  of  the  central  islands.  He was  about  to  agree  when  the  white  dragons  stum¬ bled  upon  the  meeting.  Though  his  giants  killed the  two  older  dragons,  a  young  one  escaped.  “Find that  dragon  and  destroy  it  before  our  secret  is
revealed,”  Odifal  ordered  Naluri.  “We  will  wait until  sundown  tomorrow.  If  you  have  not  sent  the signal  by  then,  we  will  know  you  have  failed.  We will  return  to  our  lair  up  north,  for  less  riches  in safety  is  better  than  more  in  danger.”
Naluri  now  seeks  to  huriy  the  process  of  justice (something  Keryst  advocates  to  the  extreme)  and see  the  young  white  dragon  put  to  death.  If  this  fails, she  plans  to  rush  to  the  shore  and  send  out  the  sig¬ nal-regardless  of  the  danger  posed  to  the  giants What  does  she  care  if  Odifal  and  his  frost  giants  art destroyed,  as  long  as  they  cause  as  much  damage and  destruction  as  possible  before  they  fall?
The  frost  giants  await  Naluri's  signal  from  e point  at  the  very  limit  of  vision.  The  signal,  a  blaz ing  tree  on  the  edge  of  the  shore,  tells  the  giant; that  it  is  safe  to  come  ashore.
Naluri,  Female  Dwarf  Elder:  AL  LE;  AC  5;  MV  6 T9;  hp  37;  THACO  16;  #AT  1;  Dmg  3-8  (ld6+2) SA  backstabx4  damage;  SD  +4  save  vs.  poison wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4'5M);  ML  16.  Str  14,  Dex  16 Con  14,  Int  16,  Wis  14,  Cha  17.
. . .  About  Keryst
The  amethyst  dragon  dominate  Keryst  is  a  youni adult  who  hopes  to  make  his  reputation  b; increasing  the  productivity  of  Dwarftown.  Hi travels  to  the  vassal  village  once  every  fev months  to  see  how  things  are  going  and  to  sug gest  ways  to  pull  more  ore  from  the  mine  or  t< make  the  processing  more  efficient.  To  thesi ends,  Keryst  spends  a  lot  of  time  with  both  Nalur and  Hammerim.
When  Keryst  is  present,  he  normally  sits  atop  ; flat  rock  overlooking  the  village.  Though  he  make; suggestions  and  offers  advice,  Keryst  follows  th path  of  most  amethyst  dragons  and  lets  the  vas sals  govern  themselves.  He  was  more  than  willin; to  simply  observe  the  proceedings  against  the  cap tured  white  dragon  when  the  PCs  arrived.  H> decided  to  take  over  in  order  to  impress  the  guest in  hopes  that  they  would  take  a  good  report  abou him  back  to  the  Council.
.  :!llv  V
Though  he  believes  in  justice,  Keiyst  cares  little  thick  forest  and  close  to  the  island’s  north  shore,
about  what  really  happens  to  the  white  dragon.  Ih  Dwarftown  houses  nearly  30  dwarves  who  work
his  opinion,  the  white  dragon  is  an  invader  who  the  nearby  mine,  operate  the  metallurgy,  and
deserves  to  be  punished  for  its  crimes.  If  the  patrol  the  local  forest.  Three  elders  oversee  the
j  dwarves  want  to  punish  the  dragon  by  putting  it  to  village.  These  elders  are  Hammerim,  Malletal,
r  death,  then  that  is  their  decision.  After  making  a  and  Naluri.
small  show  of  presiding  over  the  situation  for  his  Dwarftown  sits  in  a  forest  clearing  approxi- guests,  Keryst  is  quite  willing  to  turn  matters  back  mately  50  miles  northeast  of  the  city  of  Clear  Lake, over  to  Naluri.  The  PCs  will  have  to  convince  him  The  mine,  which  turns  out  raw  iron  ore  that  the
not  to  do  that  if  they  hope  to  find  out  what  the  dwarves  refine  into  steel,  is  5  miles  northeast  of
white  dragon  knows.  the  village.  The  island’s  shore  is  less  than  10  miles
;  Keryst  serves  as  an  authority  figure  who  can  away.  To  the  west,  in  an  isolated  clearing  where
■  help  or  hinder  the  PCs,  depending  on  their  play.  If  Hammerim  met  with  dragons  of  Clan  Evilwood,
they  have  no  sense  of  what  to  do  next,  then  Keryst  evidence  can  be  found  linking  the  dwarf  to  the
'can  offer  a  suggestion  or  two,  If  they  are  plowing  green  dragons— including  a  hidden  sack  of  jewels.
, ,  ahead  and  nothing  can  stand  in  their  way,  have  To  the  north,  a  trampled  site  links  Malletal  with
)  .  Keryst  act  as  a  road  block  that  they’ll  need  to  find  three  white  dragons.  To  the  northeast,  on  the
’  a  way  around.  If  the  adventure  is  playing  out  as  shore  of  the  Ice  Sea,  evidence  of  a  battle  waits  to
,  the  DM  envisioned  it,  then  Keiyst  can  stand  back  be  discovered.  Locations  to  the  map  on  the  follow-
V  and  watch  as  the  PCs  track  down  the  clues.  ing  page  are  described  below.
f/J  Keryst,  Young  Adult  Amethyst  Dragon:  Int  1.  Rolling  River.  A  river  flows  beside
1  Genius  (17);  AL  N;  AC  -5;  MV  12,  FI  40  (C);  HD  Dwarftown,  carrying  its  water  toward  the  Ice  Sea.
15;  hp  63;  THACO  6;  #AT  3;  Dmg  1-10/1-10/5-30;  The  river  moves  quickly,  and  it  is  fairly  wide  and
SA  +5  to  damage,  breath  weapon  (dmg  10d8x5);  deep.  Any  attempt  to  swim  the  river  requires  a
SD  immune  to  poisons,  force  attacks;  SZ  G  (82’  swimming  proficiency  check  with  a  -4  penalty,
from  nose  to  tail);  ML  17.  Innate  abilities;  water
breathing,  water  walking  (6/day),  neutralize  poi-  2.  Bridge.  A  sturdy  stone  bridge  spans  the
son  (6/day).  Combat  proficiencies:  breath  Rolling  River,  providing  access  to  the  road  to  the
weapon,  claw/claw/bite,  flight,  kick.  Noncombat  mine  and  other  points  north  and  east  of
proficiencies;  alertness,  appraising,  debate,  eti-  Dwarftown.  The  bridge  is  wide  and  strong  enough
quette,  language  (gem  dragon,  high  draconic),  to  allow  loaded  wagons  to  cross  safely,
mining,  psioncraft,  reading/writing,  spellcraft
(wizard),  stewardship,  survival  (forest).  Psion-  3.  Road  to  the  Mine.  This  well-traveled  path ics;  PSPs  1 00;  Disciplines— Psychokinesis,  Psy-  leads  to  the  mine.  It  winds  5  miles  through  the  for- chometabolism;  Sciences— project  force,  complete  est  to  the  mine.  Dwarf  warriors  patrol  the  road  and
healing;  Devotions— inertial  barrier,  molecular  mine  area  on  a  regular  basis,
agitation,  cell  adjustment,  reduction;  Defense
Modes— M — ,  TW.  Spells;  1st  level — audible  4.  Road  to  Clear  Lake.  This  road  leads  to  the
glamor,  entangle.  capital  city  of  Clan  Majyst,  some  50  miles  away.
The  dwarves  are  responsible  for  patrolling  the  area . . .  About  Dwarftown  Village  nearest  the  village.  While  the  rest  of  the  road
remains  relatively  safe,  the  great  distances The  vassal  village  of  Dwarftown  is  located  in  the  involved  make  it  impossible  to  watch  every  mile  of
ortheast  portion  of  Majyst  Isle.  Surrounded  by  it  at  all  times.  When  the  humanoid  tribes  that  live
the  deep  forest  feel  particularly  brave,  they ike  at  a  vassal  caravan  or  other  travelers  out  of 3  cover  of  the  trees.
5.  Dragon  Rock.  This  large,  flat-topped  rock ees  visiting  dragon  dominates  a  place  to  rest id  watch  the  village  activities.  During  this venture,  this  is  the  place  where  Keryst  spends ast  of  his  time.
homes  of  the  other  elders.  She  lives  alone,  with only  her  hatred  and  her  schemes  to  keep  her  com¬ pany.  The  only  evidence  of  her  involvement  with the  giants  are  a  few  large  gold  coins  bearing  the marks  of  the  raiding  chief  Odifal.  These  coins  are hidden  in  the  same  secret  place  that  contains  a second  potion  oj amethyst  dragon  control  and  a sword  +2,  dragon  slayer.  Unless  she  sees  no  other option,  Naluri  will  not  retrieve  the  sword.
6.  Cracked  Ore  Inn.  The  Cracked  Ore  Inn  serves siting  vassals  from  other  villages  and  clans.  This 'o-story  structure  has  a  large  common  room, iblic  sleeping  rooms,  and  a  few  private  rooms  for ore  prominent  visitors.  An  enclosed  pen  next  to e  inn  houses  the  visitors’  mounts.
7.  Naluri’s  Home.  Elder  Naluri  lives  in  this rge,  old  house  beside  the  Rolling  River.  Her ime  reflects  her  position  in  the  community,  but  it not  as  richly  decorated  or  as  well-kept  as  the
8.  Hammerim’s  Home.  Elder  Hammerim  lives in  this  richly  appointed  (to  the  point  of  gaudiness) house  with  his  wife  and  three  children.  If  the  PCs investigate  the  home,  they  can  find  a  secret  room filled  with  jewels  from  the  domain  of  Clan  Evil wood.  To  determine  the  origin  of  these  jewels,  a  PC dragon  needs  to  make  a  successful  appraising  pro¬ ficiency  check.
9.  Malletal’s  Home.  Malletal  does  his  best  tc match  the  opulence  of  Hammerim’s  home,  but  he  fall!
Kgs
woefully  short.  His  home  will  never  match  the  afflu¬ ent  gaudiness  of  his  neighbor's.  Malletal  and  his  wife live  here.  He  too  has  a  secret  room.  It  contains  a  large supply  of  excellently  cut  diamonds.  A  successful appraising  proficiency  check  identifies  them  as  com¬ ing  from  the  white  dragon  mines  of  Glacianta.
10.  Dragon  Cage.  This  sturdy  cage  measures 60  feet  in  length,  25  feet  wide,  and  25  feet  high. The  bars  are  made  from  the  strongest  steel,  and Snowfire  has  no  chance  of  bending  or  breaking them  because  of  his  weakened  condition.  Torvin, captain  of  the  village  guard,  placed  the  captured dragon  within  the  cage  until  Keiyst  could  render  a 'more  permanent  decision  as  to  its  fate.  Torvin  and Malletal  have  the  only  keys  to  the  cage.
Torvin,  Male  Dwarf  Guard:  AL  LG;  AC  2;  MV  6; F6;  hp  41;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  4-14  (ldlO+4); SA  +2  to  hit,  +4  damage;  SD  +4  save  vs.  poison, v:  ,  wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4'8n) ;  ML  16.  Str  18/82,  Dex  13, f/J  Con  15,  Int  9,  Wis  8,  Cha  12.
11.  Smithy.  This  large  building  serves  the  dual function  of  being  both  the  metallurgy  plant  and
'f/:r  the  steel  works  where  metal  items  are  fashioned. Except  for  the  mine  itself,  more  dwarves  work  here than  anywhere  else  in  the  village.  A  check  of  the £jt ; ,  latest  inventory  records  indicates  that  a  significant '  portion  (15%)  of  processed  metal  is  missing.  This metal  was  given  to  the  green  dragons  by  Ham- ^  merim.  If  questioned,  the  smith  reveals  that  Ham- merim  took  a  wagon  load  of  metal  into  the  forest earlier  that  day.
12.  Smith’s  Home.  The  chief  of  the  smithy  lives in  this  humble  house  with  his  wife  and  four  chil-
'ixa  dren.  While  respectful  of  dragons,  these  dwarves have  no  great  love  for  them.  They  will  not  cooper- '  ate  unless  specifically  ordered  to  by  their  master, Keryst.
The  other  buildings  in  the  village  serve  as  living quarters  for  the  miners,  the  village  militia  and guards,  and  the  smith  workers.  A  pen  beside  one
of  the  buildings  houses  the  animals  used  as  patrol mounts  and  beasts  of  burden.
Note  that  the  village  has  no  resident  priests  or healers.  If  the  PCs  request  such  services,  the  vas¬ sals  will  have  to  send  to  Clear  Lake  for  a  cleric.  The cleric  will  not  arrive  before  Keryst’s  deadline passes  (see  “Event  One”).
&)e\A  Dm:
R oWe\A  in  Afjbtiw
The  dragon  PCs  approach  the  vassal  village  and see  a  crowd  of  dwarves  around  a  large  cage.  The dwarves  nearest  the  cage  wield  spears  with  large, sharp  metal  heads.  Malletal  stands  near  these spear  carriers,  for  most  of  them  are  part  of  his militia  or  the  village  guard.  He  calls  out  above  the sound  of  the  crowd,  “On  my  mark,  the  invader dies!”  Give  the  PCs  a  moment  to  react  in  some way.  Let  them  peer  into  the  cage  and  see  the wounded  white  dragon  who  looks  to  be  about their  age.  Let  them  notice  the  other  two  village elders  looking  on  with  nervous  anticipation.  Then they  hear  the  louder,  more  commanding  voice.
“Stop,”  orders  Keryst,  the  amethyst  dominate, from  his  place  atop  the  dragon  rock.  “Justice  can wait  until  after  we  have  greeted  our  guests.”
The  amethyst  dragon  is  older  than  the  PCs,  but still  considered  young  to  be  a  dominate.  He  is  a favorite  nephew  of  Lord  Gemmenna,  however,  so has  been  granted  more  authority  and  responsibil¬ ity  than  other  dragons  his  age.  He  has  the  dwarves greet  the  PCs  in  the  appropriate  fashion,  then  asks what  brings  them  to  this  vassal  village  of  Clan Majyst.
If  the  PCs  identify  themselves  as  servants  of  the Council  of  Wyrms,  the  dwarves  respond  with  the sign  of  Great  Io,  tracing  an  eight-pointed  star  in the  air  before  them.  Snowfire,  who  can’t  under¬ stand  the  words  that  are  being  said,  does  recog¬ nize  the  sign  made  in  the  presence  of  those dragons  selected  to  serve  the  Council.  Despite  his wounds,  Snowfire  tries  to  get  the  PCs’  attention. Read  the  following:
The  white  dragon  begins  to  make  strangled sounds,  moving  its  jaws  as  though  to  speak  but only  senseless  noise  spills  out.  Then  it  waves  its claws  around,  gesturing  toward you  as  best  it  can with  wounded,  weakened  limbs.  After  a  Jew moments  of  this,  the  very  young  white  collapses. Its  efforts  have  exhausted  it,  but  its  steady  gaze never  leaves  you  until  its  eyes  finally  close  in weary  pain.
The  PCs  should  realize  that  the  dragon  was  try¬ ing  to  tell  them  something.  Now  it  lies  on  the  floor of  the  cage,  unconscious  from  its  trials  and  exer¬ tions.  If  the  PCs  ask  what  crime  the  white  dragon committed,  Naluri  says  that  it  is  none  of  their  con¬ cern.  “This  is  Clan  Majyst  business,”  she  says defiantly,  “subject  to  our  lord  Keryst  and  not  the Council.”  Keryst  agrees,  explaining  that  the  Coun¬ cil’s  wards  need  not  trouble  themselves  with  the fate  of  one  lone  white  dragon.  “Find  the  item  you came  to  pick  up  and  be  on  your  way,”  Keryst  con¬ cludes.  “I  am  sure  Mykell  has  other  tasks  waiting for  you  on  All  Clans  Island.”
It  will  take  a  few  good  arguments  for  the  PCs  to convince  Keryst  to  let  them  look  into  this  matter. The  most  compelling  evidence  that  would  bring Keryst  around  is  the  claw  wound  on  Snowfire’s neck.  If  that,  or  some  other  argument,  is  presented to  Keryst  in  a  respectful  manner,  he  will  allow  the PCs  time  to  investigate  the  situation.  Hammerim will  speak  up.  “And  how  long  will  we  wait,  Master Keryst?”  he  asks.  “Who  knows  what  danger  this mad  dragon  poses  to  our  community?  It  should  be put  to  death.”  Keryst  agrees,  and  gives  the  PCs  a time  limit  of  six  hours  to  find  out  whatever  they can.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  the  captive  will  be destroyed.
feftdj
Torvin  agrees  to  take  the  PCs  to  the  spot  where they  captured  the  white  dragon,  explaining  what he  knows  of  the  events  that  occurred  at  the  time. Hammerim  also  gives  a  version  of  his  tale,  though
he  leaves  out  anything  incriminating.  He  hoes paint  himself  as  a  brave  hero,  fending  off  the insane,  murderous  white  dragon  until  help  could arrive.  Hammerim  and  Malletal  insist  on  accompa¬ nying  the  PCs  as  well.  Naluri  remains  behind  to keep  an  eye  on  the  prisoner.
If  the  PCs  lose  the  trail  at  any  time  in  this  sec¬ tion,  they  will  eventually  return  to  the  village  and “Event  Three.”
Al  I  lif  cbxfiH^
The  clearing,  several  miles  west  of  the  village, shows  obvious  signs  of  battle— arrows  that  missed their  mark  or  broke  and  bounced  off  tough  dragon  - scales,  broken  tree  branches,  crushed  foliage,  etc. The  spot  where  the  white  dragon  burst  into  the clearing  is  plain.
Successful  observation  proficiency  checks  (Int)  or modified  Intelligence  checks  (Int  -4)  reveal  a  num¬ ber  of  significant  things  about  the  site,  depending  on how  successful  the  rolls  are,  as  follows:
•  A  roll  of  up  to  3  less  than  the  required  success number  means  the  PC  spots  the  tracks  of  other dragons.  At  least  three  separate  sets  of  tracks fill  a  part  of  the  clearing,  and  it  is  obvious  to the  roller  that  they  were  standing  relatively still  for  a  period  of  time.  Furthermore,  a  suc¬ cessful  tracking  proficiency  check  identifies the  tracks  as  those  of  green  dragons.
•  A  roll  of  4  to  6  less  than  the  required  success number  also  reveals  wagon  wheel  tracks.  A successful  tracking  check  allows  a  PC  to  locate the  wagon  in  the  foliage  about  30  feet  west  of the  clearing.  It  was  obviously  dropped  from  a great  height  (after  the  dragons  emptied  the metal  it  contained  into  their  own  packs).  This roll  also  helps  the  PCs  spot  a  patch  of  foliage that  was  destroyed  by  poison  gas— the  breath weapon  of  a  green  dragon.
•  A  roll  of  7  or  8  less  than  the  required  success number  uncovers  tracks  made  by  a  dwarf. From  their  position,  it  is  obvious  that  the dwarf  stood  with  the  green  dragons  for  a  sig¬ nificant  length  of  time.
number,  a  PC  finds  the  sack  of  jewels  that Hammerim  hastily  hid  inside  a  thorny  thicket. A  successful  appraising  proficiency  check indicates  techniques  and  materials  common  to the  craftsmanship  of  Clan  Evilwood.
Depending  on  what  occurs  here,  Hammerim gets  very  defensive.  He  blames  these  “Council children”  for  attempting  to  foster  discordance  in Majyst  domain.  “It  must  be  some  vile  plot  on  the part  of  Grand  Custodian  Mykell,”  he  hastily accuses.  “I  never  did  trust  the  Council  and  its  cus¬ todians.  They  have  their  own  agenda  that  does  not match  the  clans.”  If  the  PCs  suggest  that  Keryst may  want  to  ask  Hammerim  some  questions,  Mal- letal  orders  the  guard  to  return  him  to  the  village.
•  Tracing  the  white  dragon’s  path  through  the forest  requires  a  successful  tracking  profi¬ ciency  check.  If  the  check  succeeds,  the  dragon PCs  can  follow  back  along  Snowfire’s  mad dash  through  the  woods,  to  the  shore  of  the island.
A}  liir
A  number  of  things  are  immediately  obvious  if  the PCs  reach  the  beginning  of  the  white  dragon's  mad flight  though  the  forest.  It  was  standing  at  the  tree line,  probably  watching  something  happening  on the  small  beach,  before  it  took  wing  and  fled  into the  deeper  forest.  PCs  who  explore  the  shore  need to  make  successful  observation  proficiency  checks (Int)  or  Intelligence  checks  at  a  -4  penalty  to  dis¬ cover  additional  details.
•  On  a  roll  of  up  to  3  less  than  the  required  suc¬ cess  number,  the  PCs  notice  the  indentation  of a  large  object  in  the  sand  nearest  the  water. The  rising  tide  has  obscured  much  of  the indentation,  but  enough  remains  to  hint  that something  large  and  heavy  was  beached  here for  a  time.  (This  was  the  frost  giants’  launch, the  craft  that  transported  them  from  their  ves¬ sel  to  this  meeting  site.)
•  On  a  roll  of  4  to  6  less  than  the  required  suc¬ cess  number,  the  PCs  SDOt  a  number  of  mud-
water’s  edge.  A  successful  tracking  proficiency check  helps  sort  out  what  creatures  made  the tracks.  There  are  several  large,  booted  feet, like  a  dwarf’s  footprints  but  much,  much  big¬ ger.  There  are  also  the  small,  booted  prints  of a  dwarf,  deer  tracks,  and  dragon  tracks— made  by  white  dragons  larger  than  the  one back  in  the  village  cage.
•  On  a  roll  of  7  or  8  less  than  the  required  success number,  a  PC  notices  movement  in  the  forest.  If the  group  investigates,  they  find  five  marine scrags  bent  over  the  shattered  body  of  a  juve¬ nile  white  dragon.  The  dragon  obviously crawled  into  this  hiding  space  before  succumb¬ ing  to  its  wounds.  The  wounds  were  inflicted by  large,  bladed  weapons  of  a  size  too  great  for even  the  strongest  dwarf  to  wield.  The  saltwa¬ ter  trolls  came  ashore  to  hunt,  but  were intrigued  by  the  corpse  of  the  white  dragon.  If the  PCs  do  not  spot  them,  the  trolls  remain  hid¬ den  until  the  PCs  depart  or  50  minutes  pass (the  length  of  time  remaining  before  the  scrags must  return  to  the  sea) .  If  the  PCs  do  spot  them, the  trolls  will  fight  to  keep  the  body  they  found.
Ttolls,  Marine  Scrags  (5):  Int  Low  (5);  AL  CE;  AC 2;  MV  3,  Sw  12;  HD  6+12;  hp  40,  38,  33,  32,  30; THACO  13;  #AT  3;  Dmg  1-4/1-4/9-16 (ld4/ld4/ld8+8);  SD  regeneration  in  water;  SZ  L (10');  ML  16;  XP  1,400.
•  On  a  roll  of  9  or  less  than  the  required  success number,  a  PC  finds  a  large  gold  coin  partially buried  in  the  sand.  It  bears  the  mark  of  Odifal, the  frost-giant  raider  who  has  been  terrorizing the  northern  isles.
•  On  a  roll  of  10  or  less  than  the  required  success number,  one  of  the  dragon  PCs  notices  that  one of  the  trees  nearest  the  shore  has  been  coated with  oil.  The  giants  prepared  the  tree  so  that Naluri  could  easily  set  it  ablaze  when  she  was ready  to  signal  them.  If  the  PCs  clean  off  the flammable  substance,  Naluri  will  have  difficulty carrvine  out  her  Dlan  in  “Event  Four."
•  If  the  PCs  want  to  go  back  even  farther  along Snowfire’s  trail,  a  successful  tracking  profi¬ ciency  check  at  the  shore  will  lead  them  to  the north  clearing,  where  the  white  dragons  met with  Malletal.
Al  III:"  Wcrllirm
This  clearing  lies  to  the  north  of  the  vassal  village. Nothing  links  Malletal  to  this  spot  initially  (though later  revelations,  like  his  hidden  collection  of  dia¬ monds,  may).  However,  he  behaves  in  a  very  ner¬ vous  manner  while  at  this  spot,  especially  if  the PCs  discover  the  diamond  as  described  below.
•  A  successful  observation  roll  (or  Intelligence check  at  -4)  reveals  three  things:  this  is  the first  place  the  white  dragons  landed  upon reaching  Majyst  Island,  there  were  a  total  of three  white  dragons,  and  small  booted  foot prints  indicate  that  a  dwarf  was  present  at  the same  time  as  the  dragons.  From  the  evidence supplied  by  the  tracks  and  prints,  the  smaller of  the  three  dragons  approached  the  dwarf. The  dwarf  showed  no  fear,  finally  walking away  at  a  casual,  unhurried  pace.
•  A  PC  who  rolls  better  than  3  less  than  the required  success  number  for  the  observa¬ tion  check  notices  one  other  thing.  A  single diamond  gleams  in  the  grass.  It  lies  beside the  tracks  of  the  dwarf  and  small  white dragon,  right  where  the  two  stood  together for  a  short  time.
Nothing  else  can  be  learned  at  this  site,  and there  is  no  other  trail  to  pick  up  and  follow  as  the dragons  landed  here  from  the  sky.
When  the  PCs  return  to  the  village,  a  few  things occur.  Keryst  waits  patiently  to  hear  their  report. As  they  explain  what  they  have  discovered,  they may  or  may  not  notice  two  dwarves  approaching the  cave  from  different  directions.  The  single
of  its  harness  and  charges  toward  the  cage.  As the  guard  moves  to  intercept  the  closer  dwarf,  the second  one  tries  to  slip  a  large  plate  of  food  into the  cage.
The  dragon  PCs  must  decide  how  they  want  to act.  The  battle  axe  presents  an  obvious  danger,  but the  greater  threat  is  disguised  as  a  simple  meal  for the  prisoner.  Each  part  of  this  encounter  is described  separately,  though  the  two  occur  simul¬ taneously  and  need  to  be  handled  as  such.
The  guard,  caught  by  surprise,  takes  a  mighty hit  from  the  battle  axe  and  falls  back  in  a  spray  of blood.  “Stay  out  of  my  way,  Jornak,”  the  crazed dwarf  screams.  “I’m  going  to  kill  that  monster before  it  decides  to  free  itself  and  destroy  all  of us!”  The  crazed  dwarf  is  Mordiak,  who  lost  his wife  and  son  to  a  white  dragon  two  seasons before.  He  has  controlled  himself  for  as  long  as  he could,  but  now  he  burns  to  take  a  measure  of revenge  out  of  the  young  white  dragon.  The  guard refuses  to  fight  another  dwarf,  plus  his  wound  has made  him  too  nervous  to  move  back  into  the  range of  the  battle  axe.  On  the  second  round,  Mordiak reaches  the  cage  and  begins  slashing  and  hacking at  Snowfire.  If  the  PCs  try  to  stop  him,  Mordiak turns  his  axe  on  them.  Overcome  by  grief  and  a thirst  for  revenge,  the  crazed  dwarf  will  fight  to the  death  (although  inventive  PCs  can  come  up with  less  lethal  ways  to  restrain  him) .  Keryst  calls for  Mordiak  to  “halt  this  insane  activity,”  but  the dwarf  ignores  him.  On  the  fifth  combat  round,  il the  PCs  have  not  stepped  forward,  Keryst  moves  tc restrain  Mordiak  himself.  By  that  point,  however, Snowfire  could  be  dead.
Mordiak,  Male  Dwarf  Vassal:  AL  LN:  AC  4;  M\ 6;  F3;  hp  18;  THACO  18;  #AT  1;  Dmg  4-11 (ld8+3);  SA  +1  to  hit,  +3  damage;  SD  +4  save  vs poison,  wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4'6");  ML  14.  Str  18/23 Dex  11,  Con  12,  Int  8,  Wis  9,  Cha  10.
The  other  dwarf  is  a  young  female  who  has been  ordered  to  take  a  plate  of  food  to  the  prisoner
dwarf  delivers  the  plate  and  pushes  it  into  the cage.  When  Snowfire  gets  a  chance,  he  will  eat some  of  the  food.  The  food  has  been  poisoned with  a  very  strong,  fast-acting  ingested  poison.  If Snowfire  makes  his  saving  throw,  he  loses  Id4 points  every  round  until  the  poison  is  neutralized or  death  occurs.  If  he  fails  his  save,  he  takes  ld6 points  of  damage  every  round.  If  the  PCs  cannot help  him,  they  can  try  to  convince  Keryst  to  use his  innate  neutralize  poison  ability.  Pointing  out that  a  mystery  that  might  threaten  all  of  Clan Majyst  requires  the  information  that  the  white possesses  is  enough  to  get  Keryst  to  act.
£\)ed  Tour:  Ad  of
At  some.point  in  the  adventure,  the  dragon  PCs will  either  get  close  to  discovering  Naluri’s  involve¬ ment  or  will  convince  Keryst  beyond  a  shadow  of  a doubt  that  the  white  dragon  probably  knows enough  about  the  things  they  have  uncovered  that he  needs  to  be  questioned.  When  either  of  these things  become  obvious,  Naluri  makes  one  last  act of  desperation.
First,  Naluri  consumes  her  potion  of  amethyst dragon  control  and  orders  Keryst  to  protect  her from  the  PCs,  For  the  purposes  of  this  adventure, Keryst  fails  his  saving  throw  and  falls  under Naluri’s  control  for  5-20  (5d4)  rounds.  During this  time,  Keryst  uses  his  abilities  to  best  advan¬ tage  to  keep  the  PCs  from  following  or  hindering Naluri.  He  retains  enough  control  not  to  apply lethal  force,  though  the  PCs  should  not  be  aware of  this.  They  think  that  the  stronger  amethyst  is quite  capable  of  destroying  them.  Once  the effects  of  the  potion  wear  off,  Keryst  will  need  a few  rounds  to  recover  his  senses  before  he  can be  of  any  help  to  the  PCs.
The  dragon  PCs  catch  up  with  Naluri  at  the shore  where  Snowfire  witnessed  her  meeting  with the  frost  giants.  She  will  have  the  weapon  listed  in her  description  and  a  flaming  torch.  If  the  DM thinks  it  necessary  for  dramatic  purposes,  Naluri
can  be  considered  to  have  retrieved  her  dragon slayer  sword  + 2  from  her  home,  as  well  as  her  sec¬ ond  potion  of  amethyst  dragon  control.
If  the  PCs  wait  until  they  defeat  Keryst  (or  the potion’s  effects  wear  off),  then  they  reach  Naluri just  as  she  prepares  to  set  fire  to  tree  as  a  signal  to the  frost  giants.  If  a  few  of  the  PCs  chase  after  her immediately,  leaving  the  rest  to  keep  Keryst  occu¬ pied,  then  they  catch  her  just  as  she  bursts  onto the  shore  and  lights  her  torch.  Either  way,  Naluri hopes  to  send  her  signal,  and  the  PCs  must  try  to keep  her  from  accomplishing  that  goal.
“This  is  for  my  grandfather,"  Naluri  shouts  as she  tries  to  set  fire  to  the  tree.  “You  wronged  him, Gemmenna!  You  wronged  my  family!  Now  I  bring doom  to  Majyst!  I  bring  the  frost  giants!”
If  the  PCs  discovered  the  oil-soaked  tree  earlier  in their  investigations,  then  it  is  quite  possible  that Naluri's  torch  will  find  only  live  tree  wood  to  burn. This,  of  course,  doesn’t  burn  very  well  at  all.  If  the oil  was  not  discovered,  a  single  touch  of  the  torch’s flame  will  set  the  tree  on  fire.  Once  the  flame  catches hold,  the  PCs  have  three  rounds  to  put  it  out  before  it blazes  bright  enough  to  signal  the  giants.
Naluri  tries  her  best  to  keep  the  PCs  at  bay,  but she  isn’t  a  true  warrior  type,  The  PCs  should  be able  to  stop  her  before  she  can  touch  flame  to  tree (if  they  win  initiative)  or  at  least  defeat  her  in  time to  smother  the  flames  if  she  succeeds.  Probably the  best  way  to  accomplish  that  is  for  a  dragon  PC to  charge  into  the  tree,  uproot  it,  and  knock  it  into the  sand  and  sea.  DMs  should  allow  any  other  rea¬ sonable  plan  to  work  if  it  is  accomplished  in  the allotted  amount  of  time.
No  matter  what  occurs,  Naluri  fights  to  the death.  Unless  the  PCs  make  a  supreme  effort  to stop  her  without  killing  her,  the  elder  battles  on  as long  as  she  has  breath  and  strength  enough  to wield  her  sword.
Comlud \\A^ke  Advedim
At  the  very  least,  the  dragon  PCs  should  succeed  at stopping  Naluri  from  signaling  the  frost  giants.  If they  caused  Naluri’s  final  act  of  desperation
because  they  discovered  her  involvement,  award the  group  2,000  bonus  experience  points.  If  they had  no  idea  she  was  behind  the  worst  of  the  mys¬ teries  but  they  still  stopped  her  from  sending  the signal,  the  bonus  drops  to  1,000  experience points.  Either  way,  Keryst  also  allows  the  PCs  to take  a  share  of  Naluri’s  secret  treasure  worth 4,000  gp— wealth  given  to  her  by  the  frost  giants.
If  the  PCs  uncovered  Hammerim’s  secret  deal¬ ings  with  the  green  dragons,  the  elder  has  his  rank removed  in  shame.  Keryst  presents  the  PCs  with 8,000  gp  in  jewels  that  Hammerim  received  for dealing  in  stolen  metal.  They  also  earn  an  experi¬ ence  point  bonus  of  1 ,000  points.  Hammerim  loses his  position  in  the  village,  and  further  punishment awaits  him  at  a  future  date.
If  the  PCs  learned  of  Malletal’s  treachery  and reveal  it  to  Keryst,  they  receive  1,000  bonus  expe¬ rience  points  at  the  conclusion  of  the  adventure. They  also  receive  6,000  gp  in  diamonds — part  of the  diamonds  Malletal  has  accumulated  over  the years  as  gifts  from  the  white  dragons.  Malletal loses  his  position  as  chief  of  the  militia,  but  he  is allowed  to  stay  on  at  the  village  in  a  lesser  capac¬ ity  as  his  crimes  were  not  as  great  as  those  com¬ mitted  by  Naluri  or  Hammerim.
If  the  PCs  save  Snowfire’s  life  and  convince Keryst  to  let  the  very  young  white  dragon  return home,  award  them  a  bonus  of  2,000  experience points.  Snowfire  did  not  maliciously  invade  Majyst territory,  and  was  not  out  to  kill  any  vassals  or dragons.  He  just  came  along  to  learn  to  hunt  and to  gather  additional  food  for  the  winter.  He  never would  have  been  on  the  island  if  Malletal  hadn’t allowed  it  by  accepting  the  white  dragons’  gift  of diamonds.
Of  course,  it  is  possible  that  the  adventure  ends on  a  darker  note.  If  the  PCs  can’t  keep  Naluri  from setting  off  her  signal,  the  frost  giants  will  arrive  on the  island  within  ld4  hours.  There  is  not  enough time  for  help  to  be  called  and  to  arrive,  so  the  vas¬ sal  village  will  be  on  its  own  when  the  giants  hit land.  Keryst  asks  the  PCs  to  help  defend  the  vil¬ lage.  They  will  have  only  a  short  time  to  prepare  a suitable  defense  against  the  giants.
In  this  case,  Odifal  is  not  stupid.  He  realizes  that even  though  the  signal  was  sent,  things  may  not be  perfectly  safe  for  him  and  his  raiders.  He  sends only  one  boat  to  shore,  keeping  his  other  two  far enough  at  sea  that  they  can  escape  back  to Glacianta  should  the  need  arise.  The  boat  that  hits land  contains  12  frost  giants.  Once  they  realize that  Naluri  is  not  present  to  direct  them  to  the  hid¬ den  lair,  they  send  up  the  retreat  signal  (a  flaming arrow  shot  straight  into  the  sky)  and  attempt  to cast  off  themselves.  If  forced  to,  they  will  fight until  the  last  giant  falls.
Frost-giant  Raiders  (12):  AL  CE;  AC  0;  MV  12 (15);  HD  14+4;  hp  94,  85x2,  78x4,  62x4,  54;- THACO  7;  #AT  1;  Dmg  11-25  (2d8+9);  SA +9 damage,  hurled  rocks  (2dl0  damage);  SD  immune to  cold;  SZ  H  (21');  ML  13;  XP  7,000.
If  the  PCs  succeed  and  the  signal  is  never  sent, Odifal  takes  his  frost  giants  back  to  their  hidden lair  somewhere  on  Glacianta’s  frozen  coast.  The major  threat  has  been  delayed  for  a  time,  though the  PCs  have  once  again  uncovered  evidence  of  the frost-giant  raiders  operating  within  the  confines  of the  Io’s  Blood  island  chain.  A  few  years  later,  in the  next  adventure  presented  in  this  -book,  they will  have  an  opportunity  to  finally  confront  Odifal and  his  raiders.
When  everything  is  over,  the  PCs  can  gather  up their  rewards  and  the  talon  ring  for  Mykell  and return  to  the  Council  Aerie.  Hopefully  they  have learned  a  valuable  lesson  from  these  events— not everything  they  face  will  be  as  clear  as  black  and white.
AwAtdiMi  t^enewce
In  addition  to  the  experience  awards  outlined above,  the  dragon  PCs  should  receive  story  awards based  on  how  well  they  were  role-played  and  how the  adventure  turned  out.  These  awards,  should range  from  50,000  to  100,000  XPs.
Wig  Terrible
Alii  AiAce
The  endless  plains  of  ice  stretched  away  from  the  frozen  coast  of Glacianta,  like  sheets  of  glass  sparkling  in  the  sunlight.  Odjfal, chiqf  qf  the  frost-giant  raiders,  stood  in  front  qfthe  concealed opening  to  his  hidden  lair  and  looked  out  upon  the  ice  and  sea. For  nearly  30 years,  Odfal  and  his  raiders  plundered  the  north¬ ern  isles  from  this  secret  spot.  He  had  made  periodic  trips  back  to the  lands  qf  the  frost  giants,  but  he  had  come  to  consider  this cold  landscape  his  home.  Soon,  he  would  be  ready  to  strike  at  the dragons  in  a  more  significant  manner  than  his  past  coups.  There would  be  no  more  lightning  raids,  no  meaningless  skirmishes. Soon  there  would  be  war.
“Any  sign  of  them  yet,  Odifal?"  asked  the  humanfemale, speaking  in  almost  pe feet  giant.
“No,  not  yet,  ’’  Odifal  responded,  turning  to  look  across  the dancing  sea.  “The  ships  will  be  here  soon,  though,  loaded  with enoughfrost-giant  warriors  to  take  and  hold  this  island.  We willfght  the  dragons— and  we  will  win!"
"After  we  teach you,  Odfal,  ”  the  female  cautioned.  “After  we show  you  how  to  kill  the  vile  beasts. "
Odfal  looked  down  upon  the  human,  admiring  her  armor and  the  sword  strapped  to  her  back.  She  was  small,  this  mem¬ ber  of  a  race  he  usually  ignored.  But  he  had  seen  her  fight,  and he  knew  that  his  dreams  qf  conquest  depended  on  this  human. For  with  her  aid,  his  giants  would  win  the  grand  war  that  was even  now  sailing  toward  them  from  a  place  far  beyond  the horizon.  She  knew  how  to  kill  the  wyrms.
For  she  was  a  dragon  slayer .  .  .
Ddfojktclim
The  Terrible  Alliance  is  the  culmination  of  events  hinted  at  in the  first  two  adventures.  The  dragon  PCs,  now  at  Juvenile  age
cooperation  and  harmony  back  with you,  but  who knows  what  demands  the  rigors  of  clan  life  will vlace  upon  the  Council’s  lofty  ideals?
Your  kindred  stand  ready,  waiting  for  the  signal to  take  their  places  atop  your  backs.  Soon  you  will take  to  the  air  and fly,  leaving  these  childhood companions  behind.  Part  of  you  is  impatient  with longing.  Part  of  you  wishes  that  things  could remain  as  they  have  been.  The  vassals  and  custo¬ dians  who  have  been  closest  to  you  wishyou  well. Before  you  can  depart,  however,  you  hear  the familiar  voice  ofUykell  call.
“One  moment,  young  masters, "  Mykell  calls  as she  swoops  down from  the  aerie’s  entrance  level. “May  I  speak  withyou  before  you  go?"
Mykell  lands  nearby  and  addresses  the  PCs  in  her great,  calm  voice.  “I  have  just  received  some  informa¬ tion  that  needs  to  be  verified  or  disputed  before  the Council  can  take  action,”  she  explains.  “Could  you perform  one  last  task  for  me  before  you  go?”
If  the  PCs  agree,  proceed  to  “Event  One:  News From  a  White  Dragon.”  Before  that,  examine  the information  presented  under  “Things  to  Know”  for details  on  important  characters  and  features  in this  adventure.
Ytuu^  lo  Knew  .  .  .
The  following  information  provides  DMs  with  facts about  a  variety  of  subjects  vital  to  this  adventure. These  subjects  include  the  dragons  of  Giacianta, the  raiders’  lair,  the  frost  giants,  and  the  dragon slayers.  Statistics,  descriptions,  and  role-playing notes  are  included  in  each  section.
. . .  About  the  Dragons  of  Giacianta
The  white  dragons  of  Clan  Frostwind  and  the amethyst  dragons  of  Clan  Corum  control  domains relatively  close  to  the  lair  of  the  frost-giant  raiders. In  fact,  the  lair  is  located  within  the  bounds  of Frostwind  domain.  Snowfire  (or  whichever  juve¬ nile  white  dragon  the  DM  decides  to  use) annroached  his  clan  leaders  about  what  he  saw,
but  the  leaders  were  not  interested,  ihey  acted nervously  when  he  mentioned  it,  perhaps  even frightened.  They  dismissed  the  news  and  told young  Snowfire  to  forget  about  it.  instead,  Snow- fire  went  to  see  the  Council  custodians.
The  white  dragons  of  Clan  Frostwind  have  suf¬ fered  the  most  from  the  raids  of  Odifal  and  his frost  giants.  This  has  not  made  the  dragons  intent on  destroying  them.  It  has  instead  made  them more  frightened  of  their  ancient  enemies.  The leaders  of  the  clan  have  come  to  believe  that  the best  way  to  deal  with  the  frost  giants  is  to  give them  what  they  want  when  they  make  one  of  their periodic  raids.  Better  to  turn  over  a  hatchling  or two,  the  leaders  believe,  than  to  lose  many  grown dragons  to  the  axes  and  boulders  of  the  giants.
The  amethyst  dragons  of  Clan  Corum  have  had less  contact  with  the  raiders.  While  they  consider the  frost  giants  to  be  frustratingly  troublesome, they  do  not  see  them  as  a  significant  threat.  For this  reason,  the  amethyst  dragons  have  not  gone out  of  their  way  to  hunt  down  the  raiders.  They do,  however,  keep  a  watchful  eye  for  their approach  in  order  to  keep  damages  and  losses  due to  raids  at  a  minimum.
If  the  PCs  approach  the  white  dragons  with  evi¬ dence  that  a  frost-giant  army  is  on  its  way  to Giacianta,  they  will  first  have  to  get  past  the  suspi¬ cion  directed  at  them,  the  fear  that  grips  the  clan, and  the  general  distrust  the  clan  has  for  strangers. If  they  seek  out  Snowfire’s  help,  the  PCs  will  have an  easier  time  convincing  the  white  dragons  to  take action.  With  the  proper  amounts  of  respect,  proof, and  a  stirring  call  to  arms,  the  PCs  can  muster  t force  of  30  white  dragons  to  send  against  the  com¬ ing  frost-giant  armada.  These  dragons  range  in  age from  young  to  old,  and  they  will  be  accompanied  bj a  similar  number  of  vassal  warriors.
The  PCs  may  also  seek  help  from  Clan  Corurr after  they  discover  what  Odifal  and  his  allies have  planned.  Without  compelling  evidence,  the amethyst  dragons  refuse  to  take  the  threat  poser by  the  frost  giants  too  seriously.  Under  no  cir¬ cumstances  will  they  (or  the  white  dragon  clan for  that  matter)  send  dragons  or  vassals  to  hel]
'm
About  the  Frost  Giants
the  PCs  clear  out  the  raiders’  lair.  If  the  PCs obtain  sufficient  proof  of  a  dire  threat,  such  as  a '  piece  of  dragon  slayer  armor  or  Odifal’s  battle maps  from  the  lair,  the  dan  will  provide  15 \  dragons  of  juvenile  to  mature  adult  age  to  help Y’.  fend  off  the  invasion  force.
.  About  the  Raiders’  Lair
w
The  lair  of  the  frost -giant  raiders  is  located  within a  series  of  frozen  caverns  on  Glacianta’s  southeast shore.  A  river  of  sea  water  flows  through  the  great crack  in  the  ice-covered,  miles-high  cliff  side  that leads  into  the  caverns,  connecting  them  to  the  Ice Sea.  Inside,  the  river  passes  a  number  of  natural chambers,  finally  ending  in  a  bay  where  the raiders’  dock  their  long  boats.
In  addition  to  the  frost-giant  raiders  and  their servants,  some  of  the  chambers  still  house  the monsters  that  lived  there  before  the  coming  of  the giants.  Some  of  these  monsters,  like  the  ice  trolls, cooperate  with  the  giants  to  a  certain  extent. Others,  like  the  remorhaz,  stick  to  themselves  or are  even  hostile  to  the  giants  and  their  servants.
Details  on  the  individual  chambers  and  the encounters  that  occur  within  them  are  provided  in the  next  section,  “Lair  of  the  Frost  Giants.”  This section  also  lists  all  the  relevant  statistics  for  the monsters  occupying  the  caves.
Special  Note:  At  any  given  time,  two  pairs  of wolves  patrol  the  caves  (locations  12  to  22).  They encounter  player  character  parties  on  a  roil  of  1  on ldlO,  check  each  turn.  If  the  caves  are  on  alert, the  encounter  chance  increases  to  1-3  on  ldlO, and  the  wolves  will  be  accompanied  by  a  frost giant  from  area  15.
Winter  Wolves  (12):  Int  Avg  (8);  AL  NE;  AC  5;  MV 18;  HD  6;  hp  46,  43,  39,  34,  29,  27,  25,  24,  21,  18, '  16,  15;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg2d4;  SA  frost  breath (once  every  10  rounds,  all  within  10  feet,  6d4 points  of  cold  damage,  save  vs.  breath  weapon  for half);  SD  immune  to  cold-based  attacks,  fire-based attacks  cause  an  additional  point  of  damage  per  die; SZ  L  (12’);  ML  14;  XP  975.
The  frost  giants  occupying  the  ice  caves  come  from the  lands  beyond  the  Ice  Sea.  This  particular  band follows  the  raiding  chief  Odifal,  a  powerful,  ambi¬ tious  frost  giant  with  strong  ties  to  the  rulers  back home.  They  have  been  active  in  the  Io’s  Blood chain  for  nearly  30  years,  plundering  vassal  vil¬ lages  and  attacking  lone  dragons  whenever  the opportunity  presented  itself.  Odifal  has  acquired help  in  his  campaign  against  the  dragons.  He  has hired  ogre  gangs  to  steal  dragon  eggs,  employed disgruntled  vassals  to  pass  along  details  of  trade routes  and  other  important  information,  and  even urged  other  monsters  to  wreak  havoc  upon  the dragon  domains.  Not  everything  can  be  attributed to  Odifal,  but  in  more  than  a  few  cases  his  influ¬ ence  can  be  seen.
From  the  first  raid  he  was  taken  on  as  a  young frost  giant,  Odifal  has  found  meaning  and  excite¬ ment  in  the  plunderer’s  life.  His  first  raid  was  in the  company  of  older  frost  giants  who  came  to  Io’s Blood  to  hunt  white  dragons.  Their  hides  had  a number  of  uses  by  the  frost  giants,  especially  as the  primary  material  in  armor  and  shields.  Odifal himself  saw  a  wealth  of  opportunity  for  raiders who  were  brave  enough  and  ambitious  enough  to remain  on  the  dragon  islands  for  long  periods  of time.  But  that  wasn’t  his  only  reason  for  starting his  campaign  against  the  dragons.
As  the  raiding  party  was  returning  to  its  ship  on that  long  ago  day  in  young  Odifal’s  life,  a  venera¬ ble  white  dragon  swooped  out  of  nowhere.  Its powerful  breath  weapon  killed  Odifal’s  beloved older  brother  before  the  raiders  could  recover  and deal  their  own  blows  upon  the  dragon.  Odifal vowed  to  avenge  his  brother’s  death,  and  after  all these  years  he  may  finally  get  the  chance.
The  raiders  have  been  plundering  dragon  domains in  the  northern  isles.  Periodically,  Odifal  sends  ships back  to  the  giant  lands  beyond  the  Ice  Sea  to  trade and  sell  the  plunder  for  supplies.  Recently,  his raiders  met  up  with  a  pair  of  humans  who  were much  more  advanced  and  civilized  than  the  humans who  live  among  the  lo’s  Blood  islands.  These
them  to  cause  enough  damage  to  weaken  a  few  of the  dragon  clans.  These  weak  spots  can  later  be used  by  the  dragon  slayers  as  starting  points  in their  own  renewed  war  effort.
While  destroying  the  two  dragon  slayer  scouts would  be  a  wonderful  accomplishment  for  the dragon  PCs,  DMs  may  want  to  have  at  least  one  of the  slayers  escape  to  become  a  recurring  villain. Even  though  the  humans  have  no  current  plans  to launch  another  war,  the  presence  of  a  dragon slayer  should  make  the  PCs  think  that  such  a  war might  be  on  the  horizon.
Daress,  Female  Dragon  Slayer:  AL  LE;  AC  -1 ,  ( dragon  slayer  plate  mail ,  Dex  bonus);  MV  12; F12;  hp  87;  THACO  9;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg ld8+4/ldl2+4  {long sword  +/);  SA  +2  to  hit dragons  (+4  vs.  gold  dragons),  +13  damage (Strength  and  slayer  bonus),  breath  stun,  great blow,  wing  attack  (see  Book  TWo) ;  SD  immune  to dragon  fear,  save  vs.  breath  weapons  for  half  or  no '  damage;  ring  qfjire  resistance-,  SZ  M  (6T);  ML 19;  XP  4,000.  Str  16,  Dex  17,  Con  16,  Int  12,  Wis 11,  Cha  14.
Kandoz,  Male  Dragon  Slayer:  AL  LE;  AC  0 (i dragon  slayer  plate  mail,  Dex  bonus);  MV  12; FI  1 ;  hp  76;  THACO  10;  #AT  3/2;  Dmg ld8+9/ldl2+9  {long sword  +/);  SA  +17  damage (Strength  and  slayer  bonus),  +2  to  hit  dragons  (+4 vs.  silver  dragons) ,  breath  stun,  great  blow,  wing attack  (see  Book  TWo)-,  SD  immune  to  dragon  fear, save  vs.  breath  weapon  for  half  or  no  damage; ring  oj warmth-,  SZ  M  (6'8") ;  ML  1 7;  XP  3,500.  Str 18/00,  Dex  16,  Con  15,  Int  10,  Wis  8,  Cha  12.
The  Ice  Sea  slaps  the  frozen  cliffs  of  Glacianta  that rise  almost  a  mile  above  the  water  on  the  island’s southeast  shore.  Four  openings  lead  into  the  lair of  the  frost-giant  raiders  in  this  area.  A  wide waterway  flows  into  the  caves  of  ice  and  stone. This  serves  as  the  primary  entrance  for  the  frost giants  and  their  vessels.  Along  the  cliff  face,  three
cave  mouths  open  into  chambers  that  connect  to the  main  lair.  These  cave  mouths  open  onto  exte¬ rior  ledges  that  lead  up  to  the  top  of  the  cliff.  The monsters  that  live  in  these  caves  come  and  go from  these  points  to  engage  in  daily  hunts.
Locations  within  the  lair  are  noted  on  the  map on  pages  38  and  39,  and  descriptions  are  given below.  Statistics  are  provided  for  all  creatures  liv¬ ing  in  the  caves.  Statistics  for  the  frost  giants  and the  dragon  slayers  can  be  found  above  in  “Things to  Know.”
1.  The  River.  The  waters  of  the  Ice  Sea  flow  into the  caves,  cutting  through  them  in  the  form  of  a river  of  icy  water.  The  river  enters  the  cliff  side through  a  huge,  150-foot-wide,  300-foot-high crack  in  the  rock.  The  giants  travel  the  river  on their  giant-sized  longboats.  The  water  level  rests about  50  feet  below  the  top  of  the  gully  the  river flows  through.  To  each  side  of  the  gully,  huge caves  cut  farther  into  the  cliff’s  interior.  The  river ends  in  a  three-pronged  bay.  Here,  the  giants  have constructed  docks  for  their  ships.
Great  icicles  hang  from  the  ceiling  of  the  cave. The  giants  do  not  discourage  the  presence  of  these Jagged  points  of  ice,  for  they  form  an  obstacle  to flying  creatures— like  dragons.  The  sharp  points  of ice,  dropping  almost  100  feet  from  the  ceiling  like thousands  of  teeth,  force  flying  creatures  to  travel closer  to  the  spears,  boulders,  and  axes  of  the giants.
2.  Giant  Guards.  Three  frost  giants  are  sta¬ tioned  in  this  chamber  at  all  times.  They  watch  for intruders  and  serve  as  the  first  line  of  defense  for the  caves.  If  the  giant  guards  need  immediate assistance,  they  can  call  to  the  ogres  across  the river  for  help.  The  chamber  contains  a  large  gong that  the  giant  guards  can  use  to  alert  the  rest  of the  lair  to  danger,  a  giant-sized  table  and  chairs,  a supply  of  frozen  meat  to  snack  on,  and  a  cache  of boulders  (six  each) .  A  bridge  spans  the  river,  con¬ necting  this  isolated  chamber  to  the  ogre  caves  on the  other  side.
3.  Ogre  Guards.  Three  connected  chambers
house  the  tribe  of  ogres  that  serves  the  frost giants.  Four  extremely  powerful  ogres  are  usually stationed  in  the  first  chamber,  talking  to  the  giant guards  across  the  river,  playing  with  their  trained polar  bears,  or  sleeping.  In  theory  these  ogres  are supposed  to  be  guarding  the  caves  beyond,  but they  have  grown  lax  over  the  years  as  nothing  has ever  threatened  the  caverns.
If  alerted  to  trouble,  one  of  the  ogres  runs  back to  the  common  chamber  (location  5)  to  warn  the chieftain  and  the  rest  of  the  tribe.  The  remaining three  guards  order  the  trained  polar  bears  to  fight beside  them  as  they  battle  to  defend  the  cave. They  will  also  call  to  the  giants  for  aid,  or  go  to  the aid  of  the  giants  in  the  event  that  invaders  strike in  that  direction.
Ogre  Guards  (4):  Int  Avg  (9);  AL  CE;  AC  3;  MV  9; HD  7;  hp  38,  35,  30,  27;  THACO  14;  #AT  1;  Dmg ldl0+6/3d6+6  (two-handed  sword);  SA  +3  to  hit, +6  to  damage;  SZ  L  (10');  ML  12;  XP  650.
Polar  Bears  (5):  Int  Semi  (4);  AL  N;  AC  6;  MV  12, Sw  9;  HD  8+8;  THACO  11;  #AT  3;  Dmg Idl0/ldl0/2d6;  SA  hug  (18+  on  paw  hit  inflicts 3d6  additional  damage)  after  being  reduced  to;  SD aggressiveness  (fight  ld4+l  rounds  0  to  -12  hp); SZ  H  (14'+);  ML  10;  XP  1,400.
4.  Refuse  Chamber.  The  ogres  who  serve  the frost  giants  periodically  clean  the  caves.  Much  of the  garbage  is  carried  to  this  chamber.  The  ogres do  not  mind  the  proximity  of  the  refuse,  for  they often  find  unexpected  treasures  buried  in  the mounds  of  trash.
The  ogres  keep  a  hatchling  green  dragon  in this  chamber.  Captured  during  one  of  the  ogres’ raids  on  a  Clan  Darkcloud  hatchery,  the  baby dragon  is  chained  to  the  cold  stone  wall  in  the south  corner  of  the  chamber.  The  ogres  like  to tease  and  abuse  the  dragon,  who  is  weak  and  ill due  to  lack  of  adequate  food  and  water,  its  sur¬ roundings,  and  the  beatings  it  has  suffered.  The green  dragon  is  afraid  of  anyone  who  approaches it,  including  the  dragon  PCs.  If  the  PCs  manage  to
find  the  hatchling,  it  will  be  too  weak  to  aid  them but  its  family  will  be  grateful  if  it  is  returned  to the  clan  safely.  If  they  rescue  the  hatchling  and return  it  to  Darkcloud  Domain,  award  the  PCs  an additional  2,000  XPs.
If  the  lair  has  not  been  alerted,  the  PCs  find  four ogre  youths  teasing  the  green  hatchling.  The youths  try  to  fight  once  they  notice  the  dragons, but  they  have  little  chance  against  the  dragon  PCs. They  could  pose  a  bit  of  a  problem  for  kindred, however.
If  the  lair  has  been  alerted,  the  PCs  will  find only  the  green  dragon  hatchling.
Ogre  Youths  (4);  AL  CE;  AC  6;  MV  6;  HD  1-1;  hp 7,  7,  6,  5;  THACO  20;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld6;  SZ  M  (51); ML  9;  XP  25.
5.  Ogre  Common  Room.  The  ogres  who  serve the  frost  giants  live  in  this  large  chamber.  Cooking fires,  sleeping  mats,  and  even  a  few  tents  fill  a portion  of  the  cave.  The  ogres  work  as  servants  to the  frost  giants,  keeping  the  caves  clean  and  doing various  chores.  They  also  act  as  guards  and raiders  in  their  own  right,  doing  Odifal’s  will  for the  wealth  and  excitement  it  brings.  In  addition  to a  chieftain,  eight  guards  (four  of  which  can  be found  in  location  3),  and  18  male  ogre  warriors, the  tribe  has  22  females,  12  youths,  and  one  ogre shaman.
Krug  Bonebreaker  has  risen  to  become  the leader  of  this  ogre  tribe,  and  he  will  remember  any of  the  dragon  PCs  who  did  any  significant  amount of  damage  to  him  in  the  battle  of  the  aerie  hatch¬ ery  26  years  ago.  If  Krug  was  killed  in  that  battle, a  different  ogre  serves  as  leader  (but  use  the  same statistics  presented  below) .  The  shaman  is  always near  the  leader  when  both  are  in  the  caves,  and four  of  the  guards  accompany  the  chieftain  wher¬ ever  he  goes.
The  ogres  are  very  loyal  to  Odifal  and  the  frost giants.  They  have  had  a  long,  mutually  beneficial relationship.  They  fight  to  the  death  to  protect their  own  chambers  and  to  aid  the  frost  giants against  any  invaders.
:  door  hidden re  frost  giant
connecting  the  t\ 30  feet  high.  The frost-giant  cav expected  duties.
n  in  the  wall  of  this  chamber nt’s  great  hall.  The  passage tambers  is  50  feet  wide  and s  use  it  regularly  to  enter  the o  they  can  perform  their giants  only  use  the  passage
The  ogres  have  a  small  treasure  hoard  hidden under  a  large  rock  near  the  leader’s  tent.  The  hole beneath  the  rock  contains  gems,  precious  stones, and  coins  worth  a  total  of  3,368  gp.
Krug  Bonebreaker,  Ogre  Leader:  Int  Very  (11); AL  CE;  AC  1;  MV  9;  HD  9;  hp  48;  THACO  12;  #AT -3/2;  Dmg  ldl0+7/2d6+7  ( halberd  +/);  SA  +4  to hit,  +6  to  damage;  SD  potion  qf extra  healing-,  SZ  L (10');  ML  14;  XP  975.
Ogre  Shaman:  Int  Avg  (9);  AL  CE;  AC  5;  MV  9; HD  3;  hp  22;  THACO  18;  #AT  1;  Dmg  2d4+6/ ld6+6  (lucern  hammer);  SA  +2  to  hit,  +6  to  dam- *  age,  spells;  SD  spells,  potion  qfjire  breath-,  SZ  L (9');  ML  13;  XP  650.  Spells:  1st  level— rare  light wounds,  magical  stone-,  2nd  level— chant.
Ogre  Male  Warriors  (18):  Int  Low  (7);  AL  CE;  AC 5;  MV  9;  HD  4+1;  hp  21  each;  THACO  17;  #AT  1; Dmg  ld6+6/ld3+6  (club)  or  ld6+6/ld8+6 (spear);  SA  +2  to  hit;  +6  to  damage;  SD  nil;  SZ  L *(9’);  ML  12;  XP  270.
Ogre  Females  (22):  Int  Low  (7);  AL  CE;  AC  5;  MV 9;  HD  4+1;  hp  19  each;  THACO  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg 2d4;  SA  nil;  SD  nil;  SZ  L  (91);  ML  11;  XP  270.
.  6.  Yeti  Cave.  A  small  yeti  clan  lives  in  this  ice-
filled  chamber.  The  clan  serves  the  frost  giants, guarding  entry  to  the  lair  through  the  small  cave openings  leading  to  the  ledges  that  run  along  the ‘  cliff  face  overlooking  the  Ice  Sea.  In  return,  the  yeti receive  extra  food  and  a  small  amount  of  precious metal,  which  the  creatures  enjoy  looking  at.
If  the  kindred  PCs  enter  the  lair  through  the small  cave  openings,  a  yeti  guard  surprises  them on  a  1-7  on  a  roll  of  ldlO.  The  yeti  fights  sav¬
agely,  and  the  noise  of  combat  attracts  the  other yeti  and  the  occupants  of  locations  7  and  8.
The  yeti  have  a  small  amount  of  treasure  given to  them  by  the  giants  and  collected  from  vassals they  have  captured  while  hunting.  The  treasure totals  913  gp.
Yeti  (6):  Int  Avg  (8);  AL  N;  AC  6;  MV  15;  HD  4+4; hp  24,  23,  22,  21,  19,  16;  THACO  15;  #AT  2;  Dmg Id6/ld6;  SA  chilling  squeeze  (on  natural  20,  2d8 hp  cold  damage),  surprise  gaze  (if  surprised,  save vs.  paralyzation  or  go  rigid  with  fright  for  3 rounds;  paralyzed  victim  suffers  automatic  hits  by both  claws  and  is  squeezed) ;  SD  immune  to  nor¬ mal  cold,  invisible  in  snow  or  ice;  SZ  L  (81);  ML 13;  XP  420.
7.  Winter  Wolf  Pack.  A  pack  of  winter  wolves occupies  this  cave.  The  wolves  are  on  good  terms with  the  yeti.  Each  leaves  the  other  to  live  as  they see  fit.  These  wolves  are  wild,  coming  and  going as  they  please.  They  hunt  the  land  above,  rang¬ ing  far  and  wide  along  the  frozen  shore  as  well  as into  the  snowy  interior  of  the  island.  Unlike  the domesticated  pack  that  lives  within  the  giants’ caves,  this  pack  does  not  serve  the  frost  giants. They  tolerate  the  giants,  and  even  accept  the  food that  is  sometimes  left  in  the  unoccupied  cave nearest  the  river.
The  winter  wolves  defend  their  territory  from  all intruders,  including  the  kindred  and  dragon  PCs.  If forced  into  combat,  the  wolves  use  their  breath weapons  first  before  rushing  in  with  snapping, tearing  jaws.
In  addition  to  the  adult  members  of  the  pack, there  are  five  winter  wolf  cubs  nestled  toward  the rear  of  the  icy  chamber.  The  cubs  do  not  fight,  but the  female"  who  protects  them  receives  attack  and damage  bonuses  against  foes  who  come  too  close to  the  cubs:  +2  to  hit,  +2  damage.
Winter  Wolves  (8) :  Int  Avg  (8);  AL  NE;  AC  5;  MV 18;  HD  6;  hp  34,  29,  28,  25",  24,  22,  15,  15; THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  2d4;  SA  frost  breath  (1 per  10  rounds,  all  within  10  feet,  6d4  points  ol
cold  damage,  save  vs.  breath  weapon  for  half) ;  SD immune  to  cold-based  attacks,  fire-based  attacks cause  an  additional  point  of  damage  per  die;  SZ  L (12’);  ML  13;  XP  975.
8.  Chamber  of  White  Pudding.  This  side  cham¬ ber  has  a  cracked  ceiling.  Snow  falls  from  the opening,  filling  the  chamber  with  mounds  of  cold, white  powder.  Entering  this  cave  can  be  deadly  to both  bonded  demihumans  and  dragons,  for  the snow  and  ice  is  home  to  three  white  puddings.
One  of  the  deadly  puddings  stretches  across  a patch  of  snow  about  20  feet  into  the  cave.  There  is a  50%  chance  that  the  pudding  will  be  mistaken for  a  thin  layer  of  ice  atop  the  snow.  If  it  is  mis¬ taken,  it  gains  surprise  automatically.  It  waits  until the  PC  is  very  close  or  even  steps  into  it  before  it strikes.  Once  this  pudding  attacks  its  victim,  the other  two  drop  from  the  ceiling  in  search  of  their own  victims.  If  bonded  demihumans  enter  the cave,  each  pudding  attacks  a  separate  character.  If dragon  PCs  enter  the  cave,  the  pudding  hiding  on the  floor  combines  its  attacks  with  one  of  the  ceil¬ ing  puddings,  probably  causing  a  massive  amount of  damage  to  one  dragon.  The  third  pudding  drops upon  a  different  dragon  PC.
Each  hit  by  a  weapon  or  a  dragon’s  claws divides  a  pudding  into  smaller  ones.  Each  of  these smaller  puddings  attacks  just  as  the  original,  able to  cause  the  same  amount  of  damage.
White  Puddings  (3):  Int  Non-  (0);  AL  N;  AC  8; MV  9;  HD  9;  hp  55,  52,  37;  THACO  11;  #AT  1; Dmg  7d4;  SA  dissolve  animal  and  vegetable  mate¬ rial  in  a  single  round;  SD  immunities  (acid,  cold, poison),  lightning  bolts  and  blows  divide  pud¬ dings,  fire  and  magic  missiles  do  normal  damage; SZ  L  (8');  ML  special;  XP  1,400.
9.  Ice  Troll  Cave.  A  tribe  of  12  ice  trolls  inhabit this  cave.  The  trolls  cooperate  with  the  frost giants,  often  trading  with  them  or  agreeing  to  an infrequent  joint  venture  of  some  sort.  The  trolls often  trade  treasure  for  demihuman  slaves.
A  small  Dool  of  shallow  water  stands  in  one  cor¬
ner  of  the  cave.  The  ice  trolls  will  attempt  to  battle  .  -  wp'.yl while  standing  in  the  pool  to  make  the  best  use  of their  regenerative  powers.
If  intruders  enter  the  caves  and  connecting  pas¬ sages  claimed  by  the  tribe  (locations  9  and  10), the  ice  trolls  try  to  subdue  them  to  add  them  to their  slave  pen.  If  the  intruders  are  dragons,  the ice  trolls  send  a  few  members  of  the  tribe  to  warn the  frost  giants.
The  leader  of  this  tribe  of  ice  trolls  wields  an  old long  sword  and  is  slightly  more  powerful  and skilled  than  his  followers.  He  always  rushes  to  the front  of  any  battle,  leading  his  tribe  by  example and  strength  of  arms.
Among  the  possessions  stored  in  the  cave  are various  bits  of  treasure  worth  a  total  of  6,650  gp.
They  also  have  a  pearl  of  power  taken  from  a  cap¬ tured  elf  wizard.  The  pearl  allows  a  mage  to  recall one  2nd-level  spell  per  day.
Ice  Troll  Leader:  Int  Avg  (9) ;  AL  CE;  AC  6  (leather armor);  MV  9;  HD  4;  hp  23;  THACO  17;  #AT  2  or  1;
Dmg  Id8/ld8  (claws)  or  ld8+4  (long  sword), ldl2+4  vs.  large  opponents;  SA  nil;  SD  regenerate 2  hp/round  in  water,  immune  to  cold,  fire-based attacks  cause  double  damage,  fire  and  acid  dam¬ age  does  not  regenerate,  can  be  hit  only  by  +1  or better  weapons;  SZ  L  (8’) ;  ML  1 1 ;  XP  650.
Ice  Trolls  (11):  Int  Avg  (8);  AL  CE;  AC  8;  MV  9;
HD  2;  hp  13,  13,  11,  10,  9,  8,  8,  8,  7,  7,  5;  THACO 19;  #AT  2;  Dmg  Id8/ld8  (claws);  SA  nil;  SD regenerate  2  hp/round  in  water,  immune  to  cold, fire-based  attacks  cause  double  damage,  fire  and acid  damage  does  not  regenerate,  can  be  hit  only by  +1  or  better  weapons;  SZ  L  ( 8 1 ) ;  ML  11;
XP  175.
10.  Ice  Troll  Slave  Pen.  This  cave  is  used  by the  ice  troll  tribe  to  hold  their  demihuman,  human, and  humanoid  prisoners.  These  captives  are  well fed  on  grains  and  vegetables,  keeping  them healthy  for  when  the  trolls  decide  to  use  them  for food.
There  are  currently  seven  captives  within  this
giants  from  location  IS  will  be  here,  along  with Kandoz  the  dragon  slayer.  As  long  as  Kandoz  is alive  and  not  engaged  in  melee,  he  is  assumed  to be  giving  orders  and  devising  tactics.  In  this  case, all  of  the  frost  giants  with  him  fight  at  +1  to  hit and  +1  damage.
Two  giants  stand  ready  to  fire  the  pair  of  double baliistae  aimed  at  the  chamber  opening.  The  bal- listae  are  stationed  at  the  spot  marked  “B”  on  the map  on  pages  38  and  39.  Each  ballista  can  be operated  by  a  single  giant  and  can  hurl  two  projec¬ tiles  before  it  needs  to  be  reloaded.  The  projectiles have  a  range  of  960  feet,  cause  3d6  damage  (2d6 to  man-sized  or  smaller  targets),  take  two  rounds to  reload,  and  have  a  THACO  of  9  (when  used  by  a frost  giant) .
The  spot  marked  “A  ’’  on  the  map  indicates  a thin  layer  of  ice  covering  an  opening  in  the  cave wall.  This  opening  leads  to  the  remorhaz  lair (location  11).  If  Odifal  believes  his  giants  need help,  he  orders  the  ice  smashed  to  release  the  polar worms  into  the  caves.  The  opening  can  also  be used  as  an  emergency  exit.
13.  Treasure  Cave.  The  treasure  gathered  by the  frost  giants  on  their  most  recent  raids  can  be found  here.  Gems,  precious  metals,  vassal-crafted weapons  and  armor,  pearls,  draconic  jewelry, dragon  pelts,  and  other  stolen  treasures  totaling 139,826  gp  fill  this  cold  chamber.  If  the  kindred PCs  were  captured  as  a  result  of  “Event  Three,” then  their  armor  and  weapons  will  be  scattered among  the  items  in  this  chamber.
A  colony  of  six  ice  toads  inhabit  this  cave, guarding  it  on  behalf  of  their  frost-giant  masters. In  exchange  for  their  services,  the  giants  provide food  and  a  portion  of  the  treasure  to  toads.  The  ice toads’  stash  totals  9,875  gp  worth  of  gems,  mostly diamonds,  which  the  toads  love.
Any  nongiants  who  enter  the  chamber  must face  the  wrath  of  the  ice  toad  guardians.  The  ice toads  have  worked  out  tactics  to  use  against intruders  and  thieves.  Once  each  round,  three  of the  toads  generate  spheres  of  cold  to  increase  the damage  directed  at  the  intruders.  They  use  this
attack  in  addition  to  their  vicious  bites.
If  the  intruders  appear  particularly  powerful, one  of  the  toads  flees  the  cave  in  order  to  warn  the giants  and  send  out  a  call  for  help.
Ice  Toads  (6):  Int  Avg  (9);  AL  N;  AC  4;  MV  9,  hop 9;  HD  5;  hp  31,  28,  25,  24,  21,  13;  THACO  15;  #AT 1;  Dmg  3d4  (bite);  SA  radiate  cold  (10'  rad.  every other  round,  3d6  damage);  SD  nil;  SZ  L  (81);  ML 12;  XP  270.
14.  Winter  Wolf  Cave.  The  domesticated  winter wolves  serving  the  frost  giants  use  this  chamber as  a  lair.  If  the  giants  have  not  been  alerted,  eight wolves  will  be  here  (see  lair  note  on  page  34  for details).  If  the  giants  have  been  alerted,  this  cave will  be  empty.
15.  Frost-giant  Barracks.  The  frost-giant  war¬ riors  (both  males  and  females)  share  this  large cavern.  In  addition  to  the  30  raiders  and  their  per¬ sonal  belongings,  the  chamber  has  tents  and  beds, fire  pits,  extra  boulders  and  spears,  and  the  indi¬ vidual  wealth  of  the  giants.  This  wealth  totals ldlOxlOOgpeach.
If  the  raiders  have  not  been  alerted  to  the  PCs’ invasion  of  the  caves,  20  of  the  giants  will  be  in this  chamber.  They  will  be  lounging  around,  sleep¬ ing,  repairing  armor  and  weapons,  talking,  playing games,  or  engaged  in  some  other  lazy  activity.  If the  raiders  do  know  their  caves  have  been  invaded, half  of  the  giants  will  take  up  defensive  positions in  location  12  while  the  other  half  advances  to  the great  hall  (location  21)  to  defend  Odifal.
16.  Prison.  The  frost  giants  keep  prisoners  in this  stockade.  If  kindred  were  captured  as  a  result of  “Event  Three,”  then  they  will  be  placed  in  this chamber.  Their  armor  and  weapons  will  be  stored in  the  treasure  cave  (location  13).  Currently,  there are  no  other  prisoners  being  kept  by  the  giants. The  stockade  is  extremely  tough.  A  successful bend  bars  roll  is  needed  to  break  free,  and  the complex  lock  requires  an  open  lock  roll  made  with a  -25%  penalty.
17.  Cooking  Chamber.  Large  pots  of  stew  and dozens  of  spits  of  roasting  meat  are  constantly cooking  in  this  warm,  wonderful-smelling  cham¬ ber.  Two  ogre  females  are  usually  here,  preparing food  or  monitoring  the  cooking  fires.  These  ogres are  part  of  Krug’s  tribe,  and  they  take  turns  work¬ ing  in  the  frost  giants’  kitchen.  Winter  wolf  pups roam  among  the  cooking  fires,  sometimes  bother¬ ing  the  ogres  for  scraps  of  food  or  bones  to  gnaw on.  The  pups  do  not  fight,  but  instead  run  away  if threatened.
If  the  giants  have  been  alerted,  this  area  will  be
-  18.  Provisions.  Frozen  slabs  of  meat  and  even
whole  carcasses  (mostly  deer  and  moose)  fill  this cold  chamber.  The  giants  conduct  periodic  hunting forays  when  the  provision  cave  needs  to  be stocked.  The  cave  is  currently  filled  as  the  giants recently  completed  a  hunt.
19.  Temple.  The  frost-giant  shaman  lives  in this  cave  that  doubles  as  a  temple  for  the  raiders. The  shaman  administers  to  the  spiritual  needs  of the  raiders,  and  also  serves  as  adviser  to  Odifal.
If  the  giants  have  not  been  alerted,  there  is  a 50%  chance  that  the  shaman  will  be  in  this  cham¬ ber.  If  gone,  he  will  be  in  the  great  hall  (location 21).
If  the  giants  have  been  alerted,  he  will  be  at Odifal’s  side  in  the  great  hall  (location  21).
The  holy  items,  decorations,  and  personal  trea¬ sure  of  the  shaman  total  16,921  gp.
20.  Cave  of  the  Dragon  Slayers.  Daress  and Kandoz,  the  dragon  slayers,  are  currently  living  in this  cave.  They  keep  it  much  warmer  than  the  rest of  the  caverns  with  many  blazing  fire  pits.
If  the  giants  have  not  been  alerted,  the  dragon slayers  will  be  in  the  cave.  They  will  not  give  up their  lives  in  a  foolish  or  futile  effort.  They  will,
wever,  immediately  launch  attacks  that  give them  the  best  chance  to  win  or  escape.  If  needed, Kandoz  will  remain  behind  to  give  Daress  a  better
If  the  giants  have  been  alerted,  especially  if dragon  invaders  have  been  seen,  the  dragon  slay¬ ers  split  up.  Daress  takes  a  position  beside  Odifal and  his  shaman  (location  21).  Kandoz  goes  to  lead the  frost  giants  at  location  12.  See  these  locations for  more  details.
The  PCs  can  find  pieces  of  spare  dragon  slayer armor  in  this  cave,  as  well  as  the  personal  wealth of  the  slayers.  Their  treasure  totals  8,250  gp  in small  gems.
21.  The  Great  Hall.  The  frost  giants  use  this gigantic  chamber  as  a  meeting  hall  and  common room.  Odifal  has  a  throne  set  up  here,  with  a  great table  for  his  chief  advisers.  Scattered  across  the table  are  a  number  of  scrolls.
Chained  to  each  side  of  the  throne  is  a  Juvenile white  dragon.  Odifal  captured  them  right  after  they hatched  and  has  raised  them  as  guard  creatures. Unlike  the  more  civilized  dragons  of  the  Io’s  Blood Isles,  these  white  dragons  have  been  raised  with¬ out  the  instruction  other  young  dragons  receive. Instead,  they  are  primitive  savages,  with  as  much in  common  with  the  Io’s  Blood  dragons  as  the humans  of  lo’s  Blood  have  with  the  dragon  slay¬ ers.  They  are  loyal  to  Odifal,  and  will  even  battle other  white  dragons  if  Odifal  commands  it  (see “Event  Five") .
If  the  giants  have  not  been  alerted,  there  is  a 50%  chance  that  Odifal  will  be  here  or  in  his  living chamber  (location  22).  He  will  probably  be  warned of  intruders  by  the  white  dragons.
ff  the  giants  are  alerted,  Odifal  will  make  his stand  in  this  chamber  with  10  giants  from  area  15, the  shaman,  and  Daress  the  dragon  slayer.
There  is  a  double  ballista  (as  in  area  12)  set  up beside  Odifal’s  throne.  Odifal  can  fire  it  before  any enemy  gets  close  enough  to  engage  in  melee  com¬ bat  (THACO  7).  Most  of  the  warrior  giants  will fight  to  the  death.
Daress  fights  to  the  best  of  her  ability  until  il becomes  obvious  that  the  giants  are  going  to  lose. Then,  at  the  first  opportunity,  she  beats  a  hasty retreat  through  one  of  the  secret  doors.
Two  secret  nassaees  lead  out  of  the  chamber.
One  connects  to  the  ogre  caves  (location  5) .  The other  leads  to  the  surface,  exiting  in  the  Glacianta wilderness.  The  scrolls,  if  recovered,  are  letters  to Odifal  from  other  frost-giant  chiefs.  If  the  PCs  can read  the  frost-giant  language,  they  discover  that the  letters  contain  agreements  from  the  other chiefs  to  send  war  ships  and  warriors  to  io’s  Blood to  assist  Odifal  in  his  upcoming  war  against  the dragons.
Juvenile  White  Dragons  (2):  Int  Low  (5);  AL  CE; AC  1 ;  MV  12,  FI  40  (C) ,  Br  6,  Sw  12;  HD  1 1;  hp  58, 45;  THACO  9;  #AT  3  +  special;  Dmg  ld6/  Id6/2d8; SA  breath  weapon  once  every  3  rounds  (4d6+4 damage);  SD  immune  to  cold,  ice  walking-,  SZ  H (24'  base);  ML  15;  XP  8,000.
22.  Odifal’s  Chamber.  Odifal  and  his  three mates  live  in  this  chamber.  The  chamber  is  richly furnished  in  a  combination  of  frost  giant  and dragon  finery.  Some  has  been  imported  from  the frost-giant  lands.  The  rest  was  plundered  from  the dragon  clans.
If  the  giants  have  not  been  alerted,  Odifal  is 50%  likely  to  be  here.
f  the  giants  have  been  alerted,  only  the  female giants  are  here.  The  mates  fight  as  fiercely  as  any other  frost  giant.
Odifal’s  personal  treasure  is  worth  16,682  gp.
Frost-giant  Females,  Odifal’s  Mates  (3):  Int  Avg (9);  AL  CE;  AC  5;  MV  12  (15);  HD  13;  hp  64,  59,
Once  greetings  (and  introductions)  have  been exchanged,  Snowflre  speaks.
“I  was flying  near  the  coast  of  Glacianta,  fol¬ lowing  a  herd  of  deer  across  the  frozen  plains.  It was  the  southeast  coast,  still  in  the  Frostwind Domain  but far from  any  settlements.  I  banked wide,  preparing  for  my  attack  dive,  when  I  noticed a  vessel  closing  on  the  coast.  My  first  thought  was how  stupid  vassals  can  be.  They  were  going  to crash  into  the  cliffs  and  sink  and  no  one  would ever  know  what  happened.  I  started  to  change  my direction,  intending  to  warn  them  back  to  safer seas.  That's  when  I  realized  it  was  no  vassal ship — it  was  a  frost-giant  longboat!
“I  found  a  place  to  perch  atop  the  cliffs  so  that  I could  watch  the  invaders  wreck  their  boat  in  those  {  ' treacherous  waters.  That  never  happened,  though.  \ Instead,  it  sailed  through  the  rocks  and  reefs  and  n entered  a  great  crack  in  the  cliff  wall.  I  think  A that's  where  they  hide.  I  can  lead you  to  it. "  W
,  V
Snowfire  answers  any  questions  the  PCs  have  v about  the  region,  the  cliffs,  the  longboat,  and  the leaders  of  the  Frostwind  clan.  He  lowers  his  head  ^ if  questioned  about  his  clan,  for  the  leaders  of  the  ,  y clan  dismissed  the  news  with  nervous  indiffer-  i  O ence.  He  hopes  that  the  Council  won’t  do  the  same.  1  1 ;
Mykell  asks  the  dragon  PCs  what  they  think,  if  , they  volunteer  to  check  out  Snowfire’s  story,  pro-  ■ ceed  with  the  adventure.  If  they  don’t  volunteer,  '  ■ Mykell  reminds  them  how  much  trouble  the  frost-  /
52;  THACO  8;  #AT  1;  Dmg  10-17  (ld8+9);  SA  +9 to  damage;  SD  immune  to  cold;  SZ  H  (20’);  ML  12; XP  4,000.
45
Mykell  takes  the  PCs  to  meet  with  the  visiting white  dragon.  If  Snowfire  survived  from  the  previ¬ ous  adventure,  then  he  is  the  white  dragon  who has  come  bearing  news.  If  not,  DMs  should  feel free  to  change  the  dragon’s  name  and  personality.
giant  raiders  have  caused  over  the  years.  She  asks them  to  take  on  this  one  last  mission  before  they return  to  their  clans.
Snowfire  leads  the  dragon  PCs  and  their  kindred  to the  frozen  cliffs  of  Glacianta’s  southeast  shore.  If the  PCs  want  to  scout  out  the  area,  reveal  the information  that  follows  as  they  explore  the  cliffs. If  they  decide  to  fly  directly  into  the  great  crack,
then  proceed  with  the  encounter  descriptions  pre¬ sented  in  the  “Lair  of  the  Frost  Giants”  section.  If the  PCs  decide  on  the  direct  approach,  Snowfire does  not  follow  them.  He  agrees  to  wait  outside,
I  but  he  has  no  intention  of  fighting  the  frost giants— especially  in  their  lair.  That’s  the  Job  of  the Council’s  representatives.
The  dragon  PCs  can  easily  spot  four  openings in  the  cliff  side  relatively  close  to  one  another. The  obvious  entrance  is  the  great  crack.  The waters  of  the  Ice  Sea  actually  flow  into  this i  opening,  and  it  is  evident  that  a  giant  longboat can  navigate  the  passage.  Two  smaller  cave ;  mouths  can  be  spotted  farther  along  the  cliff ' 1  -  face.  Inclined  ledges  surround  these  openings,
.  providing  foot  paths  up  the  side  of  the  cliff  to )  ;  the  land  above.  Tracks  in  the  permafrost  indi¬ cate  that  a  number  of  small,  human-sized  crea¬ tures  regularly  travel  along  these  ledges.  The V  dragons  are  too  large  to  use  these  openings  in if  their  natural  forms,  but  the  kindred  can  easily 1/  enter  them.  The  last  opening  is  wide  and  high, "  easily  able  to  accommodate  the  dragons.  It  also "  has  a  ledge  leading  up  to  the  plains  of Glacianta.
(,  If  the  dragons  decide  to  send  their  kindred  in  to l  \  scout  the  lair,  use  the  encounters  presented  in  the '  “Lair  of  the  Frost  Giant”  section  and  go  on  to ,  .  “Event  Three."  If  the  dragons  decide  to  enter  the ‘  caves  through  one  of  the  openings,  use  the  same encounters.  Remember,  if  they  don’t  use  their  kin- dred  as  scouts,  they  must  decide  if  the  kindred  will wait  outside  or  accompany  them  in.
/  _  Shm I  Tkree:  Kindred
tie  dragons  send  the  kindred  into  the  caves  to ut  the  territory,  then  this  event  takes  place, w  it  happens  depends  on  the  actions  of  the dred  and  the  path  they  take,  as  well  as  the :isions  made  by  the  DM.  At  some  point  in ir  exploration,  the  inhabitants  of  the  caves I  nvernower  (or  even  kill’l  the  kindred.  Instead
ot  killing  the  characters,  however,  the  results knock  them  unconscious  (though  they  could  be badly  hurt).  They  are  then  presented  to  the giants  as  captives.
The  captured  kindred  are  placed  in  location  16. While  it  is  possible  for  them  to  escape  on  their own,  by  making  them  prisoners  the  dragon  PCs have  another  reason  for  entering  the  caves  and confronting  the  frost  giants.
Bs)e\d  •icnr:  %\\erk§kin^
\\ke  Reworks
If  the  giants  are  unable  to  slow  down  the  advance of  the  dragon  PCs  through  the  caves,  they  have an  emergency  plan.  They  will  only  use  this  option if  they  are  being  beaten  by  the  dragons.  One giant  runs  over  to  the  thin  ice  wall  marked  A  in location  12.  Using  his  great  battle  axe,  the  giant smashes  the  ice.  This  opens  a  passage  between the  giants’  caves  and  the  lair  of  the  pair  of  remor- haz  (location  11).
Once  the  ice  wall  collapses,  the  remorhaz have  free  access  to  the  giants’  caves.  Being  curi¬ ous  and  hungry,  they  pass  through  the  opening to  search  out  the  source  of  the  smells  and sounds  they  sense.  In  most  cases,  the  dragon PCs  will  be  farther  into  the  caves  when  the remorhaz  are  set  free.
A  number  of  rounds  after  the  wall  comes down,  the  remorhaz  reach  the  PCs  and  attack them  from  behind.  To  determine  how  many rounds,  subtract  12  from  the  number  of  the  loca¬ tion  the  PCs  are  currently  in,  then  roll  ld6.  The total  equals  the  number  of  rounds  until  the remorhaz  reach  their  location.  For  example, when  the  giants  knock  open  the  wall,  the  PCs  are in  location  17  battling  the  ogre  cooks.  17-12=5. The  DM  rolls  a  2  on  ld6.  5+2=7.  The  remorhaz join  the  battle  in  7  rounds.
If  the  PCs  enter  the  lair  through  location  1 1 ,  the remorhaz  will  not  be  available  for  later  use— at least  not  in  the  manner  presented  above.
hwt  titor.:  Urn-  iffcaH
At  some  point,  the  dragon  PCs  encounter  Odifal and  his  best  warriors.  Ideally,  this  battle  occurs  in the  great  hall  (location  2 1 ),  but  it  could  occur  else¬ where  depending  on  how  the  adventure  plays  out. In  most  cases,  the  PCs  will  face  Odifal,  his  pair  of white  dragons,  the  frost-giant  shaman,  half  of  the dragons  from  location  15,  and  at  least  one  dragon slayer.  Other  members  of  Odifal’s  camp  may  be present  as  well,  including  his  mates  from  location 22  or  winter  wolves.
Odifal  leads  this  battle  as  intelligently  as  pos¬ sible.  He  uses  his  allies  to  best  advantage,  seeking to  take  down  the  strongest  dragons  with  superior numbers  while  the  others  are  kept  busy  for  as  long as  possible.  He  fires  the  ballista  beside  his  throne personally,  and  he  needs  to  roll  a  7  to  hit  AC  0.
If  it  appears  that  his  forces  cannot  defeat  the PCs,  Odifal  attempts  to  escape  through  one  of  the secret  passages.  In  the  end,  however,  unless  he wins  a  total  victory,  Odifal  should  go  down  fight¬ ing— in  as  dramatic  a  manner  as  possible.
The  adventure  should  end  with  the  dragon  PCs defeating  the  frost-giant  raiders  and  their  chief, Odifal.  Some  of  the  giants  could  escape  into  the  icy wilderness,  but  Odifal  should  go  down  in  a  blaze of  glory.  His  death  should  be  a  hard-fought  victory for  the  dragon  PCs,  but  a  satisfying  end  to  this adventure.
At  least  one  of  the  dragon  slayers  should  also escape  to  become  a  recurring  villain  in  future adventures.  Daress  is  the  best  choice,  but  Kandoz can  work  nearly  as  well  in  this  role.
As  the  adventure  comes  to  a  close,  the  PCs should  know  that  a  frost-giant  armada  is  bearing down  on  Glacianta.  The  DM  needs  to  work  up  a continuation  to  this  adventure  wherein  the  dragon PCs  attempt  to  rally  the  dragons  of  clans  Frostwind and  Corum.  Only  with  the  help  of  these  clans  can
the  PCs  hope  to  turn  back  the  invaders.  They  may even  seek  help  from  the  Council,  participating  in  a meeting  to  convince  the  dragon  clans  of  the  com¬ ing  danger.
How  this  proceeds  depends  on  what  the  DM wants  to  do  and  how  much  of  this  war  he  or  she wants  to  incorporate  into  the  campaign.
In  addition  to  experience  earned  for  defeating monsters,  the  dragon  PCs  should  receive  story awards  based  on  how  well  they  were  role-played and  how  successfully  they  completed  the  adven¬ ture.  These  awards  should  range  from  50,000  tc 150,000  XPs.
Kfaemkte,  tour:
Hammerim  the  dwarf stood  in  the  center  qf  the  massive  cham¬ ber,  taking  one  last  look  at  his  handiwork.  The  smooth  stone floor  was  clean  and  clear,  waiting  to  be  covered  and  piled  high  > with  the  stolen  dragon  hoards.  Across  the  chamber,  six  mas¬ sive  iron  statues  stood  at  silent  attention  against  the  east  wall. In  other  chambers,  Hammerim 's  traps  were  set,  his  allies  gath¬ ered.  Everything  was  at  ready.  The  time  of  his  revenge  had finally  arrived.
“I  have  planned  and  worked  for  almost  a  century, "  Ham¬ merim  shouted  to  the  silent  statues.  “The  dragons  who  ruined my  life  must  now  be  made  to  sqffer.  And  when  their  sqffering ends,  then  those  dragons  will  die!"  The  dwarf  pulled  a  silver dagger  from  a  sheath  at  his  side.  With  a  quick  slash,  he  sliced a  shallow  cut  into  his  left  palm.  The  blood  welled  from  the wound  as  Hammerim  squeezed  his  hand  and  formed  a  fist.  A crimson  stream  drippedfrom  that  clenched  hand  to  splatter  on the  chamber  floor.
“By  the  blood  qfmy  ancestors  thatflows  through  my  veins, " Hammerim  shouted,  “I  swear  that  vengeance  will  be  mine!  I have  been  shamed  and  cast  out  because  of  the  dragons  who once  served  Mykell  the  Custodian.  But  by  this  blood,  they  shall not  survive  another  dragon ’s  age. "
His  eyes  sparkled  with  an  insane,  evil  light.  “They  shall
Dl\\wJdAc\iOl\
Stolen  Hoards  is  a  tale  of  revenge  that  pits  four  to  six  adult dragons  (6th-level  dragons)  against  the  evil  genius  of  a  crazed dwarf.  If  the  dragon  PCs  have  progressed  through  the  previous adventures  presented  in  this  book,  then  the  villain  of  this  piece is  Hammerim,  the  dwarf  who  was  once  an  elder  in  the  vassal village  of  Dwarftown  (see  Adventure  Two:  Color  Blind).  If not,  then  the  DM  needs  to  select  another  vassal  who  has  reason to  hate  the  dragon  PCs  for  something  they  did  during  their  time of  service  to  the  Council  of  Wvrms.
:hunk  of  stone,  obviously  cracked  off  a  larger 3 tone  tablet.  When  a  dragon  PC  touches  one  of  the thunks  of  stone,  a  single  word  appears  in  glowing letters  upon  its  smooth  face.  The  word  is “Dwarftown.”  The  stones  radiate  magic,  but  noth¬ ing  else  can  be  learned  by  examining  a  single chunk  of  stone.
If  the  PCs  recognize  the  name  of  the  vassal  vil¬ lage  they  once  adventured  in,  they  should  realize that  more  can  be  learned  by  contacting  each  of  the dragons  who  once  served  the  Council  custodians. In  fact,  each  of  the  dragons  have  had  from  50,000 to  100,000  gp  worth  of  treasure  stolen  from  their bonded  hoard,  and  each  of  them  has  found  a  sin¬ gle  chunk  of  stone.  If  they  meet,  the  stones  can  be fitted  together  to  recreate  the  tablet  they  were  bro¬ ken  from.  Once  fitted  together,  the  stones  glow with  enchantment  and  magical  words  scroll  across the  smooth  face.
“Come  to  the  smallest  island  off  Rockshore’s northwest  shore,”  the  magical  words  read.  “There you  will  find  what  you  have  lost."
The  dragon  PCs  can  find  the  island  without trouble.  Even  the  entrance  to  the  caverns  has  been marked  for  them  to  discover  with  little  effort.  The real  trouble  begins  when  they  reach  the  cavern entrance.  Turn  to  “Hammerim’s  Death  Maze"  and go  to  location  1 .  (The  map  for  this  adventure  is  on pages  52  and  53.)
Tiling  ic  kuc tc .  .  .
Here  are  the  facts  about,  the  motivations  of,  and statistics  for  the  major  villains  appearing  in  this adventure.  These  include  Hammerim  the  dwarf, Kolar  and  his  duergar,  and  Zoberraz  and  her  drow.
. . .  About  Hammerim  the  Dwarf
Hammerim  designed  the  death  maze  caves  and labored  to  construct  them  over  the  last  90  years. His  hatred  for  the  dragon  PCs  has  intensified  over the  decades,  growing  to  the  point  where  he  has become  obsessed  with  getting  his  revenge.  Once
that  was  his  downfall.  His  obsession  in  those was  for  precious  gems,  and  his  illegal  dea with  the  green  dragons  helped  fill  his  coi When  the  dragon  PCs  helped  expose  his  il activities,  Hammerim  was  ruined.
The  dwarf  elder  was  stripped  of  his  rani station,  then  cast  out  of  the  clan.  He  was  no  1 welcome  in  the  Majyst  Domain.  Hammerim ered  his  hidden  store  of  wealth  from  the  fores departed  to  plan  his  revenge  on  the  young  dr; who  destroyed  his  life.  With  nowhere  to  go, merim  drifted  from  island  to  island.  He  freqr communed  with  the  humanoid  races,  fost friendships  of  a  sort  with  kobolds,  ores others.  Near  the  end  of  his  first  decade  in Hammerim  met  Zoberraz  the  drow.
Hammerim  lived  with  the  drow  for  a sequestered  in  one  of  their  hidden  lairs  amoi lo's  Blood  Isles.  With  Zoberraz’s  help,  the developed  his  hatred  and  vague  musings solid  plan  for  revenge.  Together  they  locat island  where  they  could  build  the  dwarf's maze,  and  it  was  Zoberraz  who  convinced  a gar  clan  to  perform  the  work.
Over  the  years,  Hammerim  has  dreamed  o one  thing— revenge.  He  has  memorized  the  l and  features  of  the  dragons  who  ruined  hin has  spent  time  and  wealth  learning  everyth can  about  them.  His  hatred  drives  him  to  di ate  acts,  and  he  has  given  much  to  constru death  maze.  Nothing  he  currently  possesses ever  possess  is  his.  The  only  thing  he  truly is  the  hatred  that  burns  in  his  heart.
In  the  end,  no  matter  how  bad  the  situatio appear,  Hammerim  will  remain  to  battle death.  It  is  all  he  has  left  to  look  forward  t< destruction  of  the  dragons  he  hates,  or  hi death  at  their  claws.  Either  way,  he  will  atta just  reward.
In  addition  to  plate  mail  +3  and  a  battle  a Hammerim  carries  the  following  magical three  potions  of  extra  healing,  one  potion giant  strength  (+10  damage),  and  one  poi invulnerability  (-2  AC,  +2  saves,  kindred  c nnlv  with  maviral  weanonsk  He  drinks  the
Hammerim’s  Death Maze
One  Square  =  50  Feet
1 .  Entrance
2.  Hall  of  Statues
3.  Water  Elemental  Chamber
4.  Fire  Elemental  Chamber
5.  Earth  Elemental  Chamber
6.  Air  Elemental  Chamber
7.  Secret  Chamber
8.  Ballistae  Chamber
9.  Pit  TVap
10.  Stone  Golem  Chamber
11.  Refuse  Chamber
12.  Bulette  Chamber
13.  Clay  Golem  Chamber
14.  Lightning  TVap
1 5.  Olive  Slime  Cave
1 6.  Iron  Golem  Chamber
16
two  potions  just  before  the  dragon  PCs  enter  loca¬ tion  16  (both  work  normally).  Hammerim’s  statis¬ tics  without  the  potions  are  given  in  parentheses.
Hammerim,  Male  Dwarf:  AL  LE|  AC  -2  (0) ;  MV 6;  F13;  hp  104;  THACO  7  (9);  #AT  2;  Dmg  ld8+12 (ld8+2)  {battle  axe  +2);  SA  nil;  SD  +2  saves/kin¬ dred  can  hit  only  with  magical  weapons  (potion) , +4  save  vs.  poison,  wand,  spell;  SZ  S  (4'4n);  ML 16.  Str  15,  Dex  9,  Con  15,  Int  13,  Wis  10,  Cha  14.
. . .  About  Kolar  and  the  Duergar
Kolar  leads  a  band  of  40  duergar.  The  leader  and his  band  have  pledged  themselves  to  helping Hammerim  gain  revenge  against  a  group  of dragons  (the  dragon  PCs).  They  have  labored many  decades  to  construct  the  death  maze.  The duergar  provided  the  muscle,  while  the  drow  con¬ tributed  the  magic.
For  the  promise  of  a  significant  portion  of  the  trea¬ sure  hoard  of  six  adult  dragons,  the  duergar  have agreed  to  continue  aiding  Hammerim.  They  have taken  up  strategic  positions  within  the  death  maze, as  indicated  in  the  location  descriptions  to  come.
If  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  duergar  are destroyed  in  the  battles,  or  if  Kolar  himself  falls, the  remaining  duergar  flee.
,  Kolar,  Male  Duergar:  AL  LE;  AC  1;  MV  6;  F6;  hp 48;  THACO  15;  #AT  1;  Dmg  ld4+3/ld4+2 {warhammer  +1 ,  Strength)  or  ld6+3/ld8+3 {short sword  +2,  Strength);  SA  enlargement, invisibility;  SD  surprised  only  on  a  1  on  ldlO,  -2 to  opponents’  surprise  rolls,  immunities  (poisons, paralysis,  illusions/phantasms) ,  +4  save  (death, wands,  spells);  SZ  S  (41);  ML  13;  XP  1,400.  Str  17, Dex  12,  Con  16,  Int  12,  Wis  7,  Cha  11.
Duergar  Warriors  (40):  AL  LE;  AC  4;  MV  6;  F3+6 hp;  hp  25  each;  THACO  17;  #AT  1;  Dmg  Id6/ld8 (short  sword);  SA  enlargement,  invisibility ;  SD surprised  only  on  a  1  on  ldlO,  -2  to  opponents’ surprise  rolls,  immunities  (poisons,  paralysis,  illu¬ sions/  phantasms) ,  +4  save  vs.  magical  attack;  SZ S  (4');  ML  13;  XP  975.
. . .  About  Zoberraz  and  the  Drow Zoberraz  and  her  drow  warriors  have  been  work¬ ing  behind  the  scenes  in  the  draconic  isles  for many  years.  While  not  powerful  enough  to  take direct  action  against  the  dragon  domains,  the  drow have  been  able  to  score  small  victories.  Most  of these  victories  have  come  in  the  form  of  stolen treasure.  Zoberraz  is  especially  interested  in  the magical  items  the  dragons  love  to  collect.
As  a  fighter/mage,  Zoberraz  is  a  powerful  drow. She  wears  the  enchanted  black  chain  mail  typical of  the  dark  elves,  and  wields  a  magical  dagger  and short  sword  of  the  same  ebony  metal.  She  pos¬ sesses  a  stone  qf  controlling  earth  elementals,  a censer  controlling  air  elementals,  a  bow!  com¬ manding  water  elementals,  and  a  brazier  com- mandingjire  elementals.  She  uses  these  to summon  and  control  the  elementals  the  PCs encounter  in  the  death  maze.
The  drow  leader  sees  Hammerim  as  an  opportu¬ nity  to  finally  strike  a  significant  blow  against  the dragons.  If  the  maze  works,  it  can  be  used  to destroy  more  dragons  in  the  future.  If  it  fails,  only time  and  an  obsessed  dwarf  will  be  lost.  Zoberraz believes  that  she  and  her  drow  warriors  can  escape if  the  dragons  prove  to  be  too  powerful  for  the maze  to  contain.
Zoberraz  carries  herself  with  an  air  of  sedate malice.  She  is  thoroughly  evil,  and  she  hates the  dragons  almost  as  much  as  Hammerim does.  Her  hatred  extends  to  all  dragons,  how¬ ever,  whereas  Hammerim  hates  a  select  few (the  dragon  PCs).  While  Zoberraz  will  fight  the PCs,  she  does  not  go  out  of  her  way  to  put  her¬ self  or  her  followers  in  danger.  She  uses  her magic  to  best  advantage,  then  sits  back  in  the shadows  to  see  what  develops.
Zoberraz,  Female  Drow:  AL  CE;  AC  -2;  MV  12; F11/W12;  hp  52;  THACO  10;  #AT  2/3;  Dmg ld4+2/ld3+2  {dagger +2),  ld6+4/ld8+4  {short sword  + 4 ) ;  S  A  dancing  lights,  JaerieJire,  dark¬ ness,  levitate,  know  alignment,  and  detect  magic once  per  day;  SD  surprised  only  on  a  1  on  ldlO; MR  72%;  SZ  M  (5'3");  ML  14.  Str  13,  Dex  18,  Con
12,  Int  17,  Wis  14,  Cha  17.  Spells:  1st  level— burn¬ ing  hands,  chill  touch,  jump,  spider  climb-,  2nd level — blur,  invisibility,  mirror  image,  strength-, 3rd  level — dispel  magic,  fireball,  fly ,  vampiric touch;  4th  level — dimension  door  (x3) ,  ice  storm; 5th  level— cloudkill,  dismissal,  teleport,  wall  of force-,  6th  level— project  image.
Drow  Warriors  (30):  AL  CE;  AC  4;  MV  12;  F5;  hp 36  each;  THACO  16;  #AT  1;  Dmg  Id6+l/ld8+l [short  sword  +1);  SA  dancing  lights,  faerie  fire, darkness,  levitate,  know  alignment,  and  detect magic  once  per  day;  SD  only  surprised  on  a  1  on 1  d  1 0;  MR  60%;  SZ  M  (51);  ML  14;  XP  650.
'tt'AiH  Marini Itodk
Hammerim’s  death  maze  (found  on  pages  52  and 53)  is  built  into  the  side  of  a  mountain  on  one  of the  islands  off  Rockshore’s  northwest  coast.  All the  passages  and  portals  can  accommodate  even the  largest  adult  dragons,  though  some  of  them will  find  the  caves  claustrophobic.  The  ceilings  are low,  barely  150  feet  high,  making  it  nearly  impos¬ sible  to  fly  and  completely  impossible  to  engage  in aerial  combat  of  any  sort.  Location  descriptions  of the  maze  are  presented  below.
1.  Entrance  to  the  Maze.  Read  the  following  to the  PCs:
Searching  the  island,  you  eventually  find  items from  your  stolen  treasure  hoards  scattered  in  front of  an  opening  into  the  side  of  a  mountain.  There are just  enough  pieces from  each  of  your  hoards  to identify,  but  nowhere  near  the  total  amount  stolen from  you.  The  items  form  a  trail  into  the  cave.  It  is impossible  to  tell  if  they  were  dropped  there  by accident  or  if  they  were  deliberately  placed  to attract  your  attention.
About  1,000  gp  of  each  dragon  PC’s  bonded treasure  hoard  lies  scattered  in  front  of  the entrance  to  the  death  maze.  If  any  of  the  dragon PCs  decide  to  examine  the  cave  oncninv.  thev  can
spot  the  concealed  metal  doors  hidden  m  the  walls on  a  successful  dragon  senses  check  (see  "Special Abilities"  in  Book  One:  Rules) .
If  they  do  spot  the  metal  doors,  there  isn’t  much the  dragons  can  do  about  them.  Once  all  of  the dragons  step  into  the  cave  (location  2),  the  duer gar  watching  from  the  narrow  tunnels  running throughout  the  thick  cavern  walls  release  the doors.  They  slam  shut  with  a  resounding  clang  oi finality.
The  metal  doors  are  extremely  strong,  with reinforced  frames  and  sturdy  locks.  In  addition, they  are  also  wizard  locked,  making  it  very  diffi¬ cult  for  the  dragon  PCs  to  retreat— even  if  they wanted  to.  The  solution  to  this  puzzle  and  trap  lies in  front  of  them,  at  the  end  of  the  twisting  caverns.
2.  Hall  of  Statues.  Read  the  following  to  the PCs:
This  oddly  shaped  cavern  was  dfinitely  carvea out  of  the  mountain 's  solid  interior.  The  walls have  sharp  corners  and  smooth  finishes,  and  the floor  and  ceiling  are flat  and  polished.  Great  stat¬ ues  line  the  walls.  Each  statue  is  humanoid  in shape,  standing  about  20 feet  tall.  They  art crafted from  stone  or  metal,  standing  sifently  ana staring  into  the  center  of  the  chamber.  Three  pas¬ sages  lead  out  of  the  entrance  hall.  More  items from  your  treasure  hoards  spill  across  the  stone floor  and  into  each  dark  passage.
The  stone  and  metal  statues  are  not  enchantec or  threatening  in  any  way.  If  the  dragon  PCs examine  them  closely,  they  might  recognize  these statues  as  huge  representations  of  dwarves.  Oi they  might  mistake  them  as  life-size  carvings  ol giants.
Items  from  each  dragon  PC’s  bonded  hoarc worth  the  equivalent  of  500  gp  can  be  found  lead ing  into  the  three  passages.  The  items  have  beer carefully  separated  so  that  items  from  two  dragons are  scattered  in  front  of  each  passage.  The  implic tion  is  that  the  dragons  should  each  take  the  pa sane  where  thev  find  their  bits  of  treasure—
least  that’s  what  Hammerim  hopes  they  decide  to do.  Two  dragons  are  easier  to  deal  with  then  six, after  all.  Still,  he  has  stocked  his  maze  with enough  terrors  to  handle  them  (he  believes)  even if  they  decide  to  stick  together.
[  rathe  dragons  do  split  up  and  take  different  pas¬ sages,  the  best  way  to  run  the  encounters  is  to  cut from  one  group  to  the  next.  For  example,  if  the gold  and  topaz  dragon  PCs  follow  the  west  pas¬ sage,  run  their  encounter  as  the  metal  doors  slam shut  and  something  large  moves  beneath  the loosely  packed  dirt  floor.  Something  brushes against  one  of  the  dragons,  and  the  other  PC notices  a  huge  fin  rising  out  of  the  soil  in  front  of .him.  At  that  point,  as  the  tension  and  mystery begin  to  build,  cut  to  the  next  group.  Run  their encounter  until  you  reach  an  appropriate  cliff hanger,  then  cut  to  the  third  set  of  PCs.  Keep  going like  this;  always  leaving  one  group  just  before something  major  happens.  In  this  way,  the  tension remains  high  and  everyone  stays  interested  to  see '  what’s  going  to  happen  next.
3.  Chamber  of  the  Water  Elemental.  Read  the following  to  the  PCs:
A  large  pond  qf  still  water  dominates  this  long, narrow  chamber.  A  smaller  pond  fills  the  east portion  of  the  cave.  A  passage  leads  to  the  south,
<  and flickering  firelight  can  be  seen  in  that  direc-
tion.  As  you  pass  between  the  tw
’o  pools,  a  great
toward  you.  For  a  moment,  yo
u  see  two  deep
green  orbs  peering  at  you  out  qfthe  rolling  wave.
Then  it  is  upon  you,  attacking  ;
with  waves  like
crashing  fists.
The  water  elemental  leaps  froi
n  pond  to  pond,
striking  at  a  single  dragon  with
great  force  as  it
manded  to  battle  dragons,  the  elemental  seeks  to
out  its  frustration  by  destroying  the  dragons deftly  as  possible.  It  remains  on  this  plane defeated,  dismissed  by  Zoberraz,  or  the  sum-
Because  of  the  narrow  dimensions  ot  this  series of  chambers,  the  dragon  PCs  will  be  forced  to spread  out  down  the  passage.  This  will  put  them into  conflict  with  at  least  two  elementals  at  a  time. In  addition,  once  two  of  the  dragon  PCs  have advanced  into  this  chamber,  the  duergar  hiding  in the  walls  shut  the  metal  doors,  cutting  the  PCs  in the  water  elemental’s  chamber  off  from  the  rest  of the  party.
Because  the  dragon  PCs  will  be  fighting  in enclosed  chambers,  take  special  care  to  determine the  area  of  effect  of  each  dragon’s  breath  weapon. If  used  indiscriminately,  these  may  hit  friends.
Water  Elemental:  Int  Low  (7);  AL  N;  AC  2;  MV  6, Sw  18;  HD  12;  hp  55;  THACO  9;  #AT  1 ;  Dmg  5-30 (5d6);  SA  slow  ships  (1  ton/hp);  SD  +2  weapon or  better  to  hit  (or  4  HD);  SZ  L  (121);  ML  15; XP  6,000.
4.  Chamber  of  the  Fire  Elemental.  Read  the following  to  the  PCs:
Two  huge  braziers  blaze  to  each  side  of  this narrow  chamber.  As  you  enter  the  chamber,  a  gout of  fire  bursts from  the  brazier  on  the  right,  burns across  the  ceiling,  and  dives  into  the  brazier  on the  left.  Along  the  way,  it  sets  fire  to  the  oil- soaked  walls  and  ceiling,  turning  the  entire  cham¬ ber  into  a  raging  inferno.
The  room  bursts  into  intense  flames.  Any dragons  not  immune  to  fire  or  heat  suffer  ld4 points  of  damage  every  round  they  remain  in  the flaming  room.  The  round  after  the  chamber  erupts in  flame,  the  fire  elemental  begins  to  attack.  Its fiery  limbs  strike  one  dragon  at  a  time,  seeking  to consume  it  as  it  consumes  everything  in  its  path. Like  the  other  summoned  elementals,  it  remains on  this  plane  until  defeated,  dismissed  by  Zober¬ raz,  or  the  summoning  device  hidden  in  location  7 is  destroyed.
If  the  dragon  PCs  seek  to  spread  out  into  this chamber  while  still  battling  the  water  elemental, the  fire  elemental  has  no  qualms  about  leaping
into  the  fray.  After  all,  the  sooner  the  dragons  are destroyed,  the  sooner  the  elementals  will  be released  from  this  plane.
The  passage  connecting  this  chamber  to  the next  contains  a  secret  door.  The  secret  door  leads to  location  7,  where  Zoberraz  keeps  her  elemen¬ tal  summoning  devices.  The  dragon  PCs  can  spot the  door  with  a  successful  dragon  senses  roll,  but the  door  is  built  to  accommodate  a  human-sized creature.
Fire  Elemental:  Int  Low  (5);  AL  N;  AC  2;  MV  12; HD  12;  hp  62;  THACO  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  3-24  (3d8); SA  flammable  objects  save  vs.  magical  fire  at  -2  or burn;  SD  +2  weapon  or  better  (or  4  HD)  to  hit;  SZ L  (12');  ML  16;  XP  6,000.
5.  Chamber  of  the  Earth  Elemental.  Read  the following  to  the  PCs:
The  stone  gives  way  to  a  dirt floor  in  this  long, narrow  chamber.  As  you  step  across  the  rich, loosely  packed  earth,  you  can  feel  it  shift  beneath your  massive  claws.  Then  the  room  rumbles  and quakes,  and  a  large,  vaguely  humanoid  shape rises  out  of  the  earth.
The  earth  elemental  pulls  itself  together  from the  pit  of  rich  soil  that  fills  this  chamber.  Various rocks  and  clumps  of  vegetation  jut  from  its  human¬ oid  form.  Its  eyes  consist  of  precious  stones  from the  stolen  hoards  of  one  of  the  dragon  PCs.  If  this PC  is  among  those  encountering  the  earth  elemen¬ tal,  it  attacks  that  PC  first.  (Assign  each  dragon  PC a  number  and  roll  ld6  to  determine  whose  trea¬ sure  was  scattered  in  the  soil.)
Each  blow  delivered  by  the  earth  elemental strikes  like  an  earthquake.  If  possible,  the  elemen¬ tal  seeks  to  combine  its  attacks  with  the  other  ele¬ mentals  instead  of  fighting  all  of  the  dragon  PCs by  itself.  PCs  entering  the  stone  corridor  south  of area  5,  the  air  elemental  from  area  6  will  join  the combat.  The  earth  elemental  remains  on  this  plane until  defeated,  dismissed  by  Zoberraz,  or  the  sum- monine  device  hidden  in  location  7  is  destroyed.
The  ceiling  m  the  chamber  drops  to  100  teel Only  the  smaller  dragons  have  enough  room  to  lil off  the  ground,  and  even  then  can  only  stay  aloi for  two  rounds  before  landing  for  a  round.  Flyin or  levitating  via  spell  is  possible  and  will  reduc damage  taken  from  the  earth  elemental.  Each  di of  damage  inflicted  by  the  elemental  will  inflict  a least  one  hit  point  of  damage.
Earth  Elemental:  Int  Low  (6);  AL  N;  AC  2;  MV  ( HD  12;  hp  48;  THACO  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  4-32  (4d8) SA  -2  points  per  die  of  damage  vs.  flying/levitat ing  opponents;  SD  +2  weapon  or  better  to  hit  (or HD);  SZ  L  (12');  ML  15;  XP  6,000.
6.  Chamber  of  the  Air  Elemental.  Read  the  fol lowing  to  the  PCs:
This  chamber  opens  upward,  rising  to  a  heigh of  700 feet.  Finally,  you  can  actually  spread  you wings  and fly  if  you  so  desire.  However,  maneu vering  within  this  cave  could  be  difficult,  as  gret pillars  of  stone  connect floor  to  ceiling  in  th chamber’s  center.  The  passage  leading  south  is  a small  and  cramped  as  the  other  passages yo have  traversed.  After  a  moment  examining  th cave,  you  hear  the  rush  of  wind  as  a  strong focused  blast  of  air  smashes  into  you  with  deadi force.
The  air  elemental  waits  until  one  dragon  take to  the  air  before  attacking.  If  none  of  them  decid to  fly  by  the  time  they  reach  the  center  of  th chamber,  then  the  elemental  attacks  anyway, the  PCs  are  locked  in  combat  with  the  earth  ele mental  and  enter  the  stone-floored  passage  to  th south  of  location  5,  then  the  air  elemental  join the  combat.
It  remains  on  this  plane  until  it  is  defeated,  di: missed  by  Zoberraz,  or  the  summoning  devic hidden  in  location  7  is  destroyed.
Air  Elemental:  Int  Low  (7);  AL  N;  AC  2;  MV  FI  3 (A);  HD  12;  hp  76;  THACO  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  2-2 (2dl0);  SA  +1  to  hit/+4  damage  against  airborr
opponents,  wmrlwma  (6(J diameter;  lasts  one  round, SD  +2  weapon  or  better (121);  ML  15;  XP  7,000.
tll(  10'  base,  30'  top using  2d8  damage) ; 4  HD)  to  hit;  SZ  L
7.  Secret  Chamber.  Secret  doors  in  the  east  and west  walls  of  this  chamber  provide  access  to  its
i  \  hidden  contents.  Within  this  demihuman-sized ■  chamber,  with  its  10-foot-high  ceilings  and  75- foot-wide  interior,  Zoberraz  keeps  the  magical devices  that  summoned  and  control  the  four  ele- ;  mentals  in  locations  3,  4,  5,  and  6.  If  the  dragon \  PCs  want  to  reach  the  devices  or  otherwise  explore ^  c  this  chamber,  they  need  to  somehow  make  them- 1  'selves  the  size  of  demihumans.  Remember,  gold, silver,  and  bronze  dragons  have  natural  poly- '}  ,  morph  self  abilities.
The  devices,  a  stone  qf  controlling  earth  ele- ,  mentals ,  a  censer  controlling  air  elementals,  a v  bowl  commanding  water  elementals,  and  a  brazier /!  commanding fire  elementals,  are  hidden  in  this U  chamber  and  guarded  by  Zoberraz  and  12  drow V  warriors.  Zoberraz  remains  in  this  location  until 1  the  dragon  PCs  have  passed  through  chamber  6,
■  Then  she  leaves  to  join  Hammerim  in  location  16 '  ,  to  prepare  for  the  final  battle.
A  i  If  the  PCs  somehow  enter  this  chamber  before ^ 1  1  facing  all  of  the  elementals,  Zoberraz  leads  her f; ,  drow  against  them.  The  moment  it  appears  that •  the  dragons  are  too  tough  for  the  small  band  of '  drow,  Zoberraz  orders  her  followers  to  retreat, ' '  then  teleports  or  uses  dimension  door  to  reach  a pre-selected  spot  in  location  16.
8.  Ballistae  Chamber.  A  small  army  of  18  duer-
■  -  gar  stand  ready  to  harry  the  dragon  PCs.  Their
main  weapons  to  accomplish  this  task  are  nine ‘i's,  armed  ballistae.  Six  of  the  massive  weapons  have lS;\  been  set  up  on  a  high  platform  on  the  north  wall. sT '  The  other  ti
ner,  Two  duergar  man  each  ballista. ;ta  can  hurl  one  projectile  before  it tloaded.  The  projectiles  have  a  range and  cause  3d6  points  of  damage -ei7pd  creatures  nr  hip-pur  It  takes
four  rounds  to  reload  a  ballista.  The  duergar  have THACOs  of  15  when  firing  the  ballistae  at  dragons.
The  moment  a  dragon  PC  enters  this  chamber, the  three  ballistae  closest  to  the  passage  opening fire  their  projectiles.  They  immediately  begin  to reload  on  the  next  round,  and  the  second  three weapons  fire.  On  the  third  round,  the  last  three ballistae  hurl  their  projectiles  at  any  dragons  still in  the  chamber.  While  all  of  the  duergar  attempt  to reload  their  weapons  for  a  second  volley,  inpi likelihood  they  will  never  get  the  chance.  As  soon as  one  group  of  duergar  are  attacked,  the  rest  of the  ballista  crews  flee  into  the  small,  secret  pas¬ sages  designed  to  accommodate  beings  no  larger than  demihumans.
If  the  dragons  attempt  to  rush  across  the  cave and  through  the  south  passage,  they  receive  a rude  surprise.  Just  before  they  reach  the  safety  of the  open  passage,  metal  doors  slam  shut  to  cut  off their  escape.  This  allows  all  of  the  ballistae  to  get at  least  one  shot  at  the  dragons.  The  moment  the duergar  abandon  the  chamber  and  flee,  the  doors slide  apart  to  allow  passage  to  location  10.
9.  Pit  Trap.  Read  the  following  to  the  PCs;
This  chamber  appears  to  be  a  dead  end,  though it  may  provide  some  protection  and  a  place  to  rest.
The  pit  trap  activates  as  soon  as  one  large dragon  (15  HD  or  better)  or  two  smaller  dragons enter  the  chamber.  Once  this  occurs,  the  floor swings  open  and  drops  the  dragon  or  dragons  100 feet  into  a  spike-filled  pit.  A  dragon  can  make  a Dexterity  check  with  a  -4  penalty  to  see  if  it  can use  its  wings  fast  enough  to  prevent  the  fall.  Oth¬ erwise,  the  dragon  crashes  to  the  bottom  of  the  pit and  takes  6d6  points  of  damage  (from  the  combi¬ nation  of  the  fall,  the  sharp  spikes,  and  its  own massive  weight).
Any  dragon  who  survives  the  fall  can  climb  out of  the  pit  in  two  rounds  by  making  two  successful Strength  checks.  If  either  check  fails,  the  dragor PC  falls  back  into  the  pit,  sustaining  3d6  damage on  the  first  check.  6d6  damaee  on  the  second.
10.  Chamber  of  the  Stone  Golems.  Read  the following  to  the  PCs:
Four  stone  statues  occupy  positions  on  each  of this  chamber's Jour  walls.  Three  dark  passages lead  out  of  the  chamber,  in  addition  to  the  passage that  brought  you  to  the  room.  Except for  the  stat¬ ues  of  20-foot-tall  dwarves,  the  chamber  is  empty.
If  the  dragon  PCs  approach  this  chamber  from any  direction  except  the  north,  then  the  metal doors  leading  to  location  8  are  closed  and  wizard locked.  If  they  arrive  from  the  north,  the  metal doors  seal  behind  them.
The  dragon  PCs  can  make  dragon  sense  checks to  see  if  they  spot  the  invisible  drow  warrior sneaking  toward  location  9.  The  drow  is  attempt¬ ing  to  reach  the  secret  chamber  (location  7)  and did  not  realize  that  the  dragons  would  be  blocking his  path.  He  imbibed  a  potion  of  invisibility  in location  15,  then  started  across  the  stone  golem chamber.  If  the  PCs  notice  the  drow  and  capture him,  they  can  learn  a  little  about  the  death  maze and  its  designer.  But  that  will  have  to  wait  until after  the  stone  golems  have  been  dealt  with.
As  soon  as  two  dragons  enter  this  chamber, three  of  the  statues  begin  to  move.  These  are  spe¬ cial  stone  golems,  and  they  have  been  commanded to  attack  and  destroy  dragons  on  sight.  The  fourth statue  is  not  enchanted  in  any  way.  The  golems begin  pounding  on  the  nearest  dragons  with  their massive  fists,  continuing  to  battle  until  Zoberraz commands  them  to  halt,  the  dragons  are  dead,  or they  have  been  destroyed.
Like  the  other  golems  in  this  labyrinth,  the stone  golems  have  been  specially  constructed  in  a larger  form  to  better  fight  the  dragon  PCs.  Except for  their  greater  size  (higher  Hit  Dice,  hit  points, and  damage  inflicted)  and  the  fact  they  are  hasted, these  golems  are  just  like  the  stone  golems described  in  the  Monstrous  Manual.
If  the  dragon  PCs  manage  to  capture  the  drow  war¬ rior,  they  can  use  various  methods  to  convince  him  to cooperate— including  spells,  psionics,  or  the  intimida¬ tion  proficiency.  He  refuses  to  reveal  much  in  any
case,  just  that  the  PCs  are  doomed.  “This  maze  was constructed  for  only  one  purpose— to  destroy  you,” the  drow  sneers.  “And  you  have  so  graciously  entered of  your  own  free  will.”  The  last  thing  he  says,  no  mat¬ ter  what  methods  the  PCs  try,  is  "You’ll  pay  for  | Dwarftown.”  Only  powerful  psionics  will  make  him  . reveal  the  names  of  Zoberraz  or  Hammerim.
Stone  Golems  (3):  Int  Non-  (0);  AL  N;  AC  5;  MV 12  (hasted) ;  HD  16;  hp  104  each;  THACO  6;  #AT  2 (hasted)-,  Dmg  4-32  (4d8);  SA  permanently  hasted (-2  initiative  bonus);  SD  +2  weapon  or  better  to  , hit;  SZ  H  (20’);  ML  20;  XP  10,000.  ,
11.  Chamber  of  Garbage.  Read  the  following  to  - '  ’■
the  PCs:  . ,
■  t
Mounds  of  garbage fill  this  chamber,  and  the odor  of  filth  and  decay  permeate  the  air.  To  cross  to  ,
the  exit,  you  will  have  to  wade  through  the  refuse,  t In  some  places  the  piles  are  as  deep  as  30 feet.  In  ^ others,  the  garbage  pile  is  barely  15 feet  high.
If  the  PCs  make  dragon  sense  checks  before entering  the  chamber,  they  can  spot  the  pair  of  ■ giant  slugs  lying  in  wait  among  the  trash.  Other-  ,  > wise  these  appear  as  pale  gray  lumps  draped  if across  mounds  of  garbage.
When  they  strike,  the  slugs  rear  up,  revealing  .  i white  underbellies,  and  spit  deadly  acid  at  a  cho-  ’ sen  target.  They  will  spit  for  three  rounds  before  '  ■ closing  for  melee.  If  the  dragons  charge  into  melee, they  will  bite  instead.
Giant  Slugs  (2):  Int  Non-  (0);  AL  N;  AC  8;  MV  6;
HD  12;  hp  62,  53;  THACO  9;  #AT  1;  Dmg  1-12  <  - (bite) ;  SA  spit  acid  (4d8  damage,  save  vs.  breath weapon  for  half) ;  SD  immune  to  blunt  weapons;  ^ SZ  G  (301) ;  ML  1 2;  XP  5,000.  /f^
12.  Chamber  of  the  Bulettes.  Read  the  follow-  . ing  to  the  PCs:
A floor  of  hard-packed  dirt  replaces  the  smooth  1  f stone  floor  in  this  large  chamber.  As  you  move  far-  ,
ther  into  the  chamber,  you  hear  the  echoing  clang of  metal  doors  slamming  shut  to  seal  the  passage behind  you.  You  sense  movement  in  the  chamber ahead.  Something  is  burrowing  through  the  dirt floor,  heading  directly  toward  you.
chamber.  Zoberraz  has  enchanted  them  to  remain here,  but  was  not  able  to  command  them  to  attack a  specific  target.  As  such,  all  of  the  drow  and  duer- gar  avoid  this  chamber.  None  of  them  wish  to become  meals  for  the  landsharks.
'  When  the  dragon  PCs  set  clawed  foot  on  the  dirt floor,  the  vibrations  alert  the  bulettes  to  the  pres- ,x  ence  of  prey.  T\vo  burrow  through  the  dirt  in  front 'of  the  dragons,  their  twin  armored  fins  cutting  a path  above  the  surface  of  the  ground.  The  other •  two,  meanwhile,  approach  from  beneath  the dragons.  These  two  gain  surprise  and  attack  in  the second  round  of  combat.
The  dirt  floor  is  actually  a  huge,  SO-foot-deep '  ,  pit  that  has  been  filled  with  soil.  The  bulettes  bur- •/  row  through  this  soil  like  sharks  swim  through water.  They  emerge  to  attack,  use  their  jump  com- "  bat,  then  plunge  back  into  the  soil  in  hopes  of gaining  another  round  of  surprise.
If  a  bulette  takes  enough  damage  to  reduce  it  to l)  less  than  10  hit  points,  the  enchantment  put  in place  by  Zoberraz  wears  off.  However,  the  bulette i  will  continue  to  battle  the  dragons  to  vent  its  rage ‘  and  satisfy  its  hunger.  There  is  a  40%  chance  that ,  one  of  these  “free”  bulettes  will  attack  one  of  the '  other  landsharks  if  they  come  into  contact  (within 10  feet  of  each  other).
Bulettes  (4):  Int  Animal  (1);  AL  N;  AC  -2  (4 '  around  eyes/6  shell  under  crest);  MV  14  Br  3;  HD 9;  hp  66,  52,  49,  32;  THACO  11;  #AT  3;  Dmg  4dl2 ^  (bite)/3d6/3d6  (claws);  SA  S'  jump  (4  attacks  in air,  3d6  damage  each);  SZ  L  (101  tall,  121  long); ML  11;  XP  4,000.
13.  Chamber  of  the  Clay  Golems.  Read  the  fol- ,  lowing  to  the  PCs:
71 vo  clay  statues  stand  to  either  side  of  this
passage.  The  20-foot-tall  statues  resemble  huge dwarves  or  possibly  squat  giants.  As  you  con¬ tinue  through  the  passage,  two  of  the  statues start  to  move.
There  are  two  clay  golems  in  this  chamber,  one on  each  side  of  the  passage.  The  other  two  clay statues  are  not  enchanted  and  pose  no  threat  to the  dragon  PCs.
This  battle  could  really  test  the  dragon  player characters,  as  their  claws  and  teeth  cannot  harm the  clay  golems.  The  dragons  will  need  to  employ tail  slaps,  and  innate  abilities  against  the  clay golems.  (In  this  encounter,  a  dragon  PC  who thinks  of  it  can  try  to  “punch,”  using  a  paw  as  a blunt  weapon,  once  per  round.  The  attack  inflicts  2 hit  points,  plus  its  combat  modifier,  plus  a  size modifier:  M=0,  L=+l,  H=+2,  G=+3.)
The  golems  battle  until  the  dragons  are  defeated, Zoberraz  commands  them  to  stop,  or  they  are destroyed.
It  is  possible  that  a  dragon  PC  or  two  will  flee down  the  passage  in  order  to  escape  the  slow- moving  golems.  If  this  occurs,  the  fleeing  dragons blunder  right  into  the  waiting  trap  in  location  14.
TVo  duergar  were  about  to  cut  across  the  cham¬ ber  when  the  dragons  enter.  They  were  on  their way  from  the  small  passages  in  the  west  wall  to the  passages  in  the  east  wall  that  lead  to  location 8.  Note  that  these  small  passages  do  not  appear  on the  map.  When  the  dragons  arrive,  the  duergar attempt  to  hide  behind  one  of  the  nonmoving  stat¬ ues.  The  dragons  can  spot  them  by  making  suc¬ cessful  dragon  sense  checks  (see  “Special Abilities”  in  Book  One:  Rules).  If  they  are  spotted, the  duergar  succumb  to  a  bout  of  intense  fear.  In this  frightened  state,  they  can’t  answer  any  ques¬ tions— at  least  not  coherently.  If  the  dragon  PCs  do a  supreme  job  of  calming  the  frightened  duergar, and  make  Charisma  checks  at  -6,  then  they  can learn  the  name  of  the  person  who  set  this  trap (Hammerim) ,  the  name  of  their  leader  (Kolar) ,  and that  the  duergar  really  don’t  want  to  step  through the  south  passage.
Note  that  damage  inflicted  by  the  clay  golems  can
be  cured  only  by  a  heal  spell  cast  at  17th  level  or greater.  Mykell  can  arrange  for  such  healing  when (and  if)  the  dragons  return  to  All  Clans  Island.
Clay  Golems  (2):  Int  Non-  (0);  AL  N;  AC  7;  MV  7; HD  13;  hp  70  each;  THACO  8;  #AT  1;  Dmg  3-36 (3dl2);  SA  after  one  round  of  combat  can  haste itself  for  three  rounds  once  per  day,  wounds healed  only  by  17+-level  priest;  SD  +1  blunt weapon  or  better  to  hit;  SZ  H  (201);  ML  20; XP  6,000.
14.  Lightning  Trap.  If  the  dragon  PCs  peer  into this  chamber  before  advancing,  read  the  following description  to  them.
Four  iron  statues  stand  at  silent  attention  in this  widened  passage.  Two  statues  occupy  the  east alcove,  two  the  west.  The  passage  continues southward,  apparently  opening  into  a  larger chamber  somewhere  in  that  direction.
If  they  walk  right  in  (or  do  something  to  test  the chamber,  like  tossing  in  one  of  the  duergar) ,  then read  this  description.
Suddenly  lightningjlashes  from  the  eyes  of  the southwest  statue.  It  leaps  across  the  chamber  to the  opposite  statue,  energizing  the  air  and  crack¬ ling  malevolently.  When  the  jagged  bolt  reaches the  second  statue,  it  arcs  to  touch  the  others.  In  an instant,  the  room  is filled  with  blazing,  painful electricity.
This  room  is  a  trap.  When  any  living  thing reaches  the  center  of  the  chamber,  the  statues  toss lightning  bolts  toward  each  other.  In  an  instant, any  living  creature  within  the  chamber  takes  6d6 points  of  electrical  damage  (save  vs.  breath weapon  for  half).  A  dragon  that  makes  its  saving throw  can  move,  either  forward  or  back  the  way  it came.  Each  round  a  dragon  PC  stays  in  the  cham¬ ber,  it  suffers  another  attack.
Any  dragons  that  don’t  make  the  saving  throw are  caught  in  the  field  of  charged  energy.  They
continue  to  take  6d6  points  of  damage  each  round until  they  make  successful  saving  throws  vs.  para- lyzation.  Once  they  make  the  save,  they  can  try  to leave  the  chamber.
Dragons  immune  to  lightning  damage  can  stride through  this  trap  with  ease.  Once  all  living  crea¬ tures  have  exited  the  chamber  (or  been  killed),  the lightning  stops  arcing  and  the  room  settles  down.
15.  Chamber  of  the  Olive  Slime.  Read  the  fol lowing  to  the  PCs;
This  large  chamber  is  moist  and  alive  with many  growing  things.  Fungi  and  mold  cover almost  every  surface,  and  some  even  drips  down from  the  ceiling.  A  large  mound  of  plant  If e fills  a portion  of  the  chamber's  east  haf.  After  everyone has  entered  this  area,  metal  doors  clang  shut behind  you.  Then  the  mound  of  plant  Ife  begins  to move.  .  .  .
This  chamber  contains  two  threats  to  the  PCs. The  first  is  obvious.  An  olive  slime  creature, formed  from  the  juvenile  blue  dragon  that  serves as  its  host,  moves  toward  them  from  the  east  half of  the  chamber.  In  the  west  half,  an  olive  slime waits  to  drop  from  the  ceiling  on  the  first'  dragon to  back  in  that  direction.
The  first  dragon  to  enter  the  west  half  of  the chamber  receives  the  notice  of  the  olive  slime.  It releases  its  tendrils  and  drops  from  its  perch  on the  ceiling.  The  target  must  make  a  saving  throw vs.  poison  to  notice  that  the  olive  slime  has dropped  onto  it.  Otherwise,  another  dragon  must make  a  successful  dragon  senses  proficiency  check to  spot  it  clinging  to  its  companion’s  back.  If  no one  notices  the  slime,  its  host  becomes  protective of  it  in  2d4  hours.  In  1  d6+6  days,  the  host  becomes an  olive  slime  creature.
The  olive  slime  creature  attacks  with  one  pur¬ pose— to  infect  other  hosts  with  olive  slime.  There is  a  10%  chance  per  successful  hit  that  the  crea¬ ture  struck  will  be  infected.  Once  it  successful infects  a  creature,  it  ignores  that  foe  and  concen¬ trates  on  another.
Olive  Slime:  Int  Non-  (0):  AL  N;  AC  9:  MV  0;  HD 2+2;  hp  9;  THACO  19;  #AT  0;  Dmg  nil;  SA  infects host;  SD  harmed  by  acid,  freezing  cold,  fire,  cure disease  spells,  and  spells  that  affect  plants;  SZ  S (4' radius):  ML  10;  XP  420.
Olive  Slime  Creature:  Int  Animal  (1);  AL  N;  AC  9; MV  6;  HD  12+2;  hp  53;  THACO  13;  #AT  1;  Dmg 4-16  (4d4);  SA  olive  slime;  SD  harmed  by  acid, freezing  cold,  fire,  magic  missile  spells,  and spells  that  affect  plants;  SZ  H  (22');  ML  9; XP  2,500.
16.  Chamber  of  the  Iron  Golems.  If  the  dragon PCs  have  been  separated  or  have  missed  most  of the  maze,  they  will  find  the  metal  doors  to  the chamber  sealed  (even  a  knock  spell  fails).  Ham- merim  wants  the  dragon  PCs  to  explore  the  maze and  be  Well  worn  down  before  the  final  battle,  and the  duergar  keep  him  informed  of  the  dragons’ progress.  However,  he  also  wants  all  of  the  sur¬ vivors  assembled  for  his  grand  speech  (against  the advice  of  Zoberraz!).  Only  when  it  is  time  for  the climax  will  Hammerim  open  the  doors.
Mounds  of  treasure  fill  large  portions  of  this massive  chamber.  Coins,  precious  metals,  gems, and  other  valuable  items  are  heaped  in  shining piles.  You  can  feel  these  items  calling  to  you,  for among  them  are  your  bonded  hoards.  You  have found  the  rest  of  your  stolen  treasure !
When  the  PCs  enter  the  chamber,  metal  doors slam  shut,  sealing  the  exit.  The  PCs  notice  a  line  of six  iron  statues  standing  against  the  east  wall. Like  the  others  elsewhere  in  this  dungeon,  these statues  are  20  feet  tall  and  resemble  stern,  angry
After  a  moment,  a  voice  calls  out,  "The  time  has finally  come!  You  ruined  my  life,  dragons  of  the Council!  Now  /  wilt  take  great  pleasure  in  ending yours!"  With  that,  four  of  the  statues  begin  to
slowly,  their  massive  fists  ready  to  strike.  .  .  .
The  moving  statues  are  iron  golems.  Magical electrical  attacks  (including  the  breath  weapon  of  a bronze  dragon)  will  slow  an  iron  golem  for  3 rounds.  Magical  fire  attacks  (including  the  breath weapon  of  a  gold  dragon)  will  repair  1  hit  point  of damage  for  every  hit  die  of  damage  it  would  have normally  caused.  All  other  spells  have  no  effect  on the  golems.  Once  every  7  rounds,  each  golem breathes  out  a  cloud  of  poison  gas  that  fills  a  10- foot  cube  directly  in  front  of  it,
Hammerim  hides  behind  the  south  mound  of treasure,  After  ld4  rounds  of  combat  have passed  between  the  dragon  PCs  and  the  golems, he  can  no  longer  contain  himself.  He  rushes  out to  take  up  the  battle  personally.  As  he  fights,  he shouts  out  the  crimes  he  believes  the  dragons have  committed  against  him.  “You  ruined  every¬ thing  with  your  interference!  I  lost  my  fortune, my  livelihood!  I  lost  my  family  and  friends,  my position,  my  home!  I  have  been  cast  out,  exiled, cut  off  from  my  clan!  And  it  is  all  your  fault!" Hammerim  fights  to  the  death.
Zoberraz  hides  behind  the  west  mound  of  trea¬ sure.  She  is  invisible  and  operating  through  her projected  image,  watching  to  see  how  the  battle progresses  (possibly  protected  by  a  wall  qfforcd) , deciding  whether  to  get  involved.  If  the  dragons attack  her,  she  joins  the  fight  until  she  can  escape. She  has  no  intention  of  dying  in  this  maze.  Once Hammerim  attacks,  Zoberraz  casts  spells  to  help him.  She  always  positions  herself  for  a  ready escape  if  necessary.  Only  concentrated  efforts  by the  PCs  will  defeat  Zoberraz.  Otherwise,  when  the moment  is  right  (especially  if  Hammerim  falls), Zoberraz  flees.
Once  the  golems  and  Hammerim  are  defeated the  PCs  can  locate  the  controls  that  open  the  sealed metal  doors,  The  controls  are  built  into  the  south wall,  Of  course,  the  controls  are  not  built  for manipulation  by  dragon  claws.  The  PCs  will  have to  change  form  or  come  up  with  a  way  to  work  the
exception  or  the  bits  they  found  scattered  else¬ where  in  the  maze.
Iron  Golems  (4):  Int  Non-  (0);  AL  N;  AC  3;  MV  6; HD  20;  hp  110  each;  THACO  3;  #AT  1;  Dmg  4-48 (4dl2);  SA  10'  poison  gas  cloud  once/7  rounds; SD  +3  weapon  or  better  to  hit;  SZ  H  (20') ;  ML  20; XP  15,000.
In  addition  to  experience  earned  for  defeating  th maze's  monsters,  the  dragon  PCs  should  recerv story  awards  based  on  how  well  they  were  role played  and  how  successfully  they  completed  th adventure.  These  awards  should  range  froi 50,000  to  150,000  XPs.
With  the  death  of  Hammerim,  Zoberraz  flees.  The enchantments  and  charms  she  put  in  place  will slowly  fade,  leaving  whatever  remains  in  the  maze either  harmless  (like  the  golems)  or  confused  and seeking  escape  (like  the  elementals  and  charmed creatures).  The  dragon  PCs  can  gather  their  trea¬ sure,  release  the  locking  mechanism  sealing  the metal  doors,  and  make  their  way  back  to  the maze’s  entrance.
Zoberraz  and  Kolar  could  return  at  a  later  date to  provide  more  trouble  for  the  dragon  PCs.  The drow,  especially,  has  long-ranging  plans  for  con¬ quering  the  dragon  islands.  What  these  plans  are and  how  they  will  play  out  are  left  to  creative  DMs to  work  out.
If  any  of  the  dragon  PCs  were  infected  by  the olive  slime  (location  15),  then  Hammerim  may  still get  some  measure  of  revenge.  If  no  one  notices  the presence  of  the  slime,  or  if  no  action  is  taken  to remove  it,  then  the  character  is  consumed  in ld6+6  days  and  becomes  an  olive  slime  creature. See  the  Monstrous  Manual  for  more  information about  olive  slime  and  olive  slime  creatures.
The  dragon  PCs  have  successfully  worked together  again.  This  should  onlv  boost  the  rela-
