Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09056 X 3 Curse Of Xanathon"
See other formats
X3 


Adventure Module For Character Levels 5-7 


1 



Expert Set Adventure Module 


Curse of Xanathon 

by Douglas Niles 



The Curse of Xanathon combines town and wilderness adventuring in an exciting series of five 
detective-type scenarios. This challenging adventure supplies eight pregenerated characters to 
help you get into the game fast, plus a bonus section for further town adventures. 



9056 DUNGEONS & DRAGONS is a registered trademark oumcd by TSK Hobbies, Inc 











Dungeon Module X3 
Curse of Xanathon 

by Douglas Niles 

AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 5-7 



(Whereas; Stephen, Duke of Rhoona has been acfing in a dangerously urtstabie manner; 

And Whereas; The Duchy of Rhoona is ready to fall before the Forces of Evil; 

h is hereby decreed fhaf a valiant and courageous party of adventurers musf learn the secret of the 
Duke's insanity and free the city from the 
yoke of chaos. 

This module contains referee notes, background information , maps and expbradon keys intended for 
use with the D&D(r) Expert Rules. Be 
sure to look for other products from TSR t The Game Wizards! 


This module is protected under the copyright taws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other use of the material contained herein is prohibited wilhout the express 

written permission of TSR Hobbiesjnc, 

Distributed to the book trade by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Hobbies (UK). Ltd, Distributed to the 

toy and bobby trade by regional distributors. 

(r) 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc, 


PRINTED !N USA 



TlrfljirnflvVusiflj 

' U l^hHaiw, 


9056 





DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Expert Set 

Dungeon Module X3 

THE CURSE OF XANATHON 


This module is for use with the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) Expert Set, which continues 
and expands the D&D(r) Basic rules. This module cannot be played without the D&D(r) Basic 
and Expert rules. 


INTRODUCTION 


STOP! If you intend to be a player in this module, do not read any further- The following 
information is for the DM only. Knowledge of the contents of the module will spoil the adventure 
and excitement for the players, 

NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

The Curse of Xanathon is an unusual module, in that much of the players* actions will be in the 
form of detective work, as they try to discover clues to the problem plaguing the town. Once 
they have located these clues, they will have to decide on a proper course of action. If they make 
wrong decisions, they could conceivably waste much time and obtain no results. You, as the 
DM, will need a careful touch to keep the players on the right track without making solutions 
and objectives too obvious. 

Much information is included in the various scenarios, and astute players will no doubt be able 
to determine the proper course of action at each stage of the adventure. If a group of players is 
unfamiliar with this type of detective game, they may become frustrated or disinterested, The 
DM is encouraged to offer additional dues whenever these would seem to be necessary. This 
can be handled in a number of ways. For example, the High Priest of Forsetta, who moves 
around in a beggar's disguise, is introduced in Scenario 1, The DM should feel free lo use this 
character whenever necessary as a source of information and guidance to the party. He will 
never join in any adventuring, however! Also, bartenders and tavern patrons thoughout the 
town may also be used as informants, generally for a price (l-6gp). Rumors flow freely at these 
public gathering places, and in addition to those included in the module, the DM may wish to 
invent some rumors of his or her own. 

Before beginning play, the DM should read the module carefully and become completely 
familiar with it. The information that is boxed is to be read aloud to the players at the appropriate 
time. The materia! that is not boxed is for the DM*s use only and should be revealed to the 
players at the DM's discretion. 

This module has been designed for a party of 5 to 8 characters of between the 5th and 7th levels 
of experience. The party should contain at least 1 dwarf, 1 magic-user, 2 thieves and a goodly 
number of fighters. The total of the party's experience levels should be 35-50, with a total of 46 
being best. 

During the adventures the DM should be careful to give the player characters a reasonable 
chance for survival. He or she should try to be fair and impartial at all times. However, if the 
players should persist in taking foolhardy risks or making unwise choices, the DM should make 
it clear that the characters will perish unless their actions are more well thought-out. The 
cooperation of everyone in the party will insure that the adventures will be fun and exciting for 
all. 

The DM should try to bring all the senses into play, ft not enough to simply describe what a 
monster looks like to the player the DM should describe how it sounds, what it smells like, 
etc. The same is true for room descriptions. The rooms are described only briefly in this module 
but the DM should feel free to add additional details to make the players really see the room. 
Enhancing the atmosphere will only add extra excitement to play of this module. 

For the convenience of the DM, whenever a monster or NPC is described in the text, the game 
statistics will be listed in parentheses in the following order: 

Monster/NPC Name (Armor Class; Hit Dice or Class/Levei; hit points; Number of Attacks 
per round; Damage per attack; Movement per turn (round); Save As: Class/Levei; Morale; 
Alignment; and Abilities for NPCs, if necessary.) 

The following abbreviations are used: 

Armor Class =AC t Hit Dice =HD, Cleric =C, Dwarf =D t Magic-User=M, Thief =T, Level =# T hit 
points -hp* Number of Attacks =#AT; Damage =D, Movement =MV, Save As =Save, Morale 
=ML; Alignment =AL; Strength =S, Intelligence -I, Wisdom =W, Dexterity =D, Constitution 
=C r Charisma =Ch. 

C/ass/Leue/ is only used for NPCs while Hit Dice is used for all other monsters. Movement in a 
game turn is three times the movement rate per round. 



SCENARIO 1 Pg.8 

SKULKING THROUGH 
THE BARRACKS 



SCENARIO 2 Pg.X3 

THE TEMPLE OF CHAOS 



SCENARIO 3 Pg.20 

JOURNEY OF THE SHRINE 



SCENARIO 4 Pg.25 

DUEL WITH THE 
HIGH PRIEST 



SCENARIO 5 Pg.26 

TO THE RESCUE! 


2 





BACKGROUND 


For five generations the Dukes of Rhoona have ruled the 
city of the same name with a just and respected hand. 
Established as an outpost from which Eric Rhoona launched 
his far ranging raiding and trading expeditions, the town 
has grown to a population of several thousand in its cen 
tury of existence. The duchy is part of the greater kingdom 
of Vest land, and is allied with the Jarldom of Soderfjord 
and the dwarves of Rock home. 


Rhoona may easily be placed on continental Map M-l, 
included with D&D(r) Module XI: isle of Dread. Find Wes 
tland's capital of Norrvik, and locate the fjord next to it. 
Simply follow the line of the fjord toward the mountains, 
and place Rhoona inside the "V" where the fjord separates 
into two channels. 

Many steep, treacherous and hidden passes lead across 
the mountains to Rockhome, and dwarven caravans often 
cross these with loads of metalgoods and other dwarven 
crafts. In fact, a sizeable number of dwarves live in Rhoona, 
and are presently engaged in the construction of a mighty 
palace for the current Duke, Stephen Rhoona, 


Located on a sheltered fjord nearly 100 miles from the sea, 
Rhoona has a bustling port from which ships sail to ail 
corners of the known world. 


HELD ANN FREEHOLDS 

^ : 4 * * . ^ 1 


OSTLAND 


Ml ' 1 . 

KHANATE 


Norrvik @ 


^Rhoona T > ^ i 
A^SjKlNGDOlJf 
A 7 * OF. VESTIjANI 


Soderfjord 


'SODERFJORD JARLDOM 

U K" 


YI am atm 


Atasiyan 

Desert 


EMIRATE OF YLARUAM 


Other passes in the rugged mountain range to the north' 
west have recently been crossed by immigrants from the 
Ethangar Khanate. The number of these nomads in Rhoo 
na is small, but slowly growing. They are welcomed for the 
fine horses and goats that they bring with them. 

Sheep, goats, cows, and horses are all herded in the rugged 
country around the town. Barley, rye, fish, milk, cheese, 
and mutton are common foods here, and Rhoona is known 
throughout Vesttand and beyond for its many fine brewer 
ies. A number of taverns offer the traveller a chance to 
sample the wide variety of fermented malt beverages 
brewed here. Wine and brandy must be imported by ship, 
and are therefore priced accordingly. 

With the exception of the unfinished Ducal palace and 
portions of the three temples, all of the buildings in Rhoona 
are made of wood, with either wooden or sod roofs. They 


are one story tall, unless otherwise mentioned, and all but 
the largest will be one room. In the Old Town near the 
waterfront, life is hard but happy, Many taverns may be 
found here, and strangers will generally be greeted with a 
friendly invitation to share an ale. 

Two old temples, erected decades ago, stand in Rhoona in 
tribute to a pair of the major gods of Vest land. The Temple 
of the Lawful Order of Forsetta is the oldest, and most of 
the citizens are members of this faith. The basic tenets 
include a belief in the authority of the Duke and the convic 
tion that good deeds done throughout a person's life will 
result in great rewards after death. The Temple of the 
Spuming Nooga is the home of a neutral order, comprised 
mostly of fishermen and sailors. This faith is a less restric 
tive one, believing that a person must strive against the 
circumstances of his life to make the best of a short 
existence. 


3 

















Recently, a newer temple has been erected to Cretia, the 
god of the Ethangarians. Although currently there is a 
small number of people in Rhoona from the Ethangar 
Khanate, they have erected a large and elaborate temple. 
To most Rhoonians, this temple is a strange and myster 
ious place, and little is known about the beliefs of the 
faithful. 

The Ducal Guard is responsible for maintaining order in 
the community, as well as defending it from any outside 
threats. This brutally effective force is led by Draco Storm- 
sailer, whose very name inspires fear and awe in most 
Rhoonians, Once Draco sailed to all parts of the world on 
plundering expeditions, but now he has settled down to the 
quiet life of garrison commander. He lives in the Ducal 
Barracks, It is said that the Duke respects his judgement 
above all other advisors. 

Recently, the town has been thrown into an uproar by 
several rather peculiar decrees that have originated from the 
Duke's palace. Ten days before the start of this adventure, 
the order was issued that all taxes must be paid in beer, not 
money. Many kegs have been delivered to the palace, and 
now it is very difficult to purchase even a small glass of beer 
in the taverns of Rhoona. This has contributed to grumbling 
and complaining among the thirsty populace, but people are 
in such a fear of the Ducal Guard that no protest has been 
made. 

Three days ago, a second decree was issued, declaring that 
horses ridden within the town boundaries must carry the 
riders facing the mount's tail* Since only the very wealthy 
ever ride in the town, this decree has resulted in some very 
entertaining sights for pedestrians, as merchants and no 
bles struggle to maintain balance and dignity in the awk 
ward position. Even so, more rumors have been spread 
regarding the odd nature of the last two ducal pronounce 
ments. Many people are frightened by the thought that the 
Duke is no longer rational. 


RUMORS 

At the start of play, the characters will be aware of two of the 
common rumors that circulate through the town. Roll a d6 twice, 
comparing the result to the RHOGN1AN RUMORS TABLE to 
determine what these rumors are. If the second roll repeats the first, 
roll again until a different result is obtained. 

RHOONIAN RUMORS TABLE 
DIE ROLL RUMOR 

1 The Duke is suffering from an inherited form of insanity 
that has afflicted his family for a century. This has never 
been publicly disclosed since the sickness has never 
before appeared so openly. 

2 Draco Stormsailer has murdered the Duke and is issu 
ing the decrees in his place. 

3 The dwarves who are working on the palace plan to 
steal as much of Rhoona'$ wealth as they can carry off 
before returning to Rockhome. 

4 The Duke has finally chosen a wife! The beer has been 
collected for a gala surprise party that he is planning to 
throw for the entire town, where he will announce his 
forthcoming marriage. 

5 The immigrants from the Ethangar Khanate are some 
how behind everything. No one seems to know exactly 
what they're up to, but they know it isn't good! 

6 The gods are displeased with Rhoona.The affliction of 
the Duke is just the beginning of the terrible things that 
will be suffered by all the people of Rhoona, 


The characters may learn tour other rumors simply by "asking 
around," They will not hear more than one rumor from any single 
source, but it should not take them long to hear the lot if they are 
interested in doing so. The DM should improvise the four rumors, 
making them as absurd as possible. None of the rumors should give 
the players a clue to solving the mystery. 

THE PROBLEM: 

The problem afflicting Rhoona is a powerful curse that has been laid 
upon the current Duke, Stephen Rhoona, by the High Priest of 
Cretia, Xanathon. Because this curse has been inflicted with the aid 
of that chaotic god, a remove curse spell is not sufficient to break it. 
Only Xanathon has the antidote, and he will not part with it easily! In 
fact, since Xanathon has been granted a special form of invulnerabil 
ity by his god, the party will have to discover his weakness before 
they have a chance of successfully confronting him, 

Draco Stormsailer, the widely-feared captain of the guard, is a part 
of the plot to undermine the Duke's authority. Xanathon has prom 
ised the ambitious captain that he will have the title of Duke when 
Stephen Rhoona has been deposed. Two or three of Draco's most 
trusted lieutenants are aware of his subversion, but the entire Ducal 
Guard will follow his orders unquestioningly, unless they are en 
gaged in obvious treason. 

Xanathon has no intention of fulfilling his promise to Draco. The 
High Priest of Cretia is an emissary of the Ethangar Khanate, and as 
such, he has been sent to pave the way for an invasion by those 
people of the steppes. He expects the Duke's recent insane actions 
to result in a civil war between the forces of the Duke and Draco. 
The two sides will destroy themselves in a war and create a 
power vacuum in Rhoona, When the fighting is over, Ethangarians 
will sweep in and claim the land. 

The Curse of Xanathon Module is broken into five steps, called 
Scenarios. These Scenarios will be briefly introduced here in out 
line form and are detailed later in the module. 

Scenario 1- Skulking Through the Barracks: Search the bar 
racks of the Ducal Guard, and learn of Draco and Xanathon's 
treachery. 

Scenario 2- The Temple of Chaos: Search the temple of Cretia, 
and discover Xanathon p s weakness. Find map to the Shrine of 
Cretia. 

Scenario 3- Journey to the Shrine: Travel to the shrine, locate 
and capture Xanathon's life force. 

Scenario 4- Duel With the High Priest: Confront Xanathon and 
obtain the antidote for the curse. 

Scenario 5~ To The Rescue!: Defeat Draco and administer the 
cure to the Duke, 


KEY TO RHOONA: 

Although each of the scenarios has a specific place where informa 
tion must be gathered or actions taken, the players have the entire 
town of Rhoona in which to adventure. Since they may wish to do 
some exploring before taking on the Ducal Barracks, the town is 
keyed before information concerning Scenario 1 is given, Any of 
the town locations having a detailed key and map are not detailed in 
this section. The DM should refer to MAP A for further detail. 
Because of the size of the town, a fully detailed key is impossible. 
These descriptions are intended as aids to help the DM in describing 
these settings, but he or she may wish to add more detail if players 
plan on spending much time in these areas. 

The Ducal Guard is responsible for maintaining order in Rhoona. 
Patrols circulate through the town regularly, but their frequency 
varies depending on the area being patrolled. Check for these 
guards on the DUCAL PATROL ENCOUNTER CHART by 
rolling a d6. A roll of "6" indicates an encounter with a patrol. 


4 









DUCAL PATROL ENCOUNTER CHART 

AREA FREQUENCY OF CHECKS SIZE OF PATROL 


Old Town 
Warehouses 
Marketplaces 
Middle Class District 
Upper Gass District 


Once per 3 turns 
Once per 2 turns 
Once per 2 turns 
Once per 2 turns 
Once per turn 


11-16 (M6+10) 
lM6(ldfrH0) 
11-16 (Id6+T0) 
5-8 (ld4+4) 

5-8 (ld4H) 


These patrols are composed primarily of 1st level fighters in leather 
armor, carrying shields and shortswords (AC 6, hp 5, #AT 1, D L6, 
MV 90/ ML 8). For every four 1st level guards, the fifth will be 3rd 
level, with chain mail and a longsword (AC 4, hp 16, #AT l t D 1-8, 
MV 60/ ML 9). If more than 10 guards are encountered, the 11th will 
be an officer of 5th level, chain mail and longsword (AC 4, hp 29, ftAT 
1, D 1-8, MV 60/ ML 11), The Ducal Guard will not harass citizens, 
however, unless a patrol discovers laws being broken, 

All areas of the town will be busy and crowded during the hours of 
daylight, and this is true in the Old Town and Ethangarian sector at 
night as well. Activity in the other parts of the town does not cease 
after dark, but becomes much less hectic* Since a party will be 
meeting persons at the rate of 10 or 20 per round, a random encoun 
ter table is impractical Rather, the DM should study the descrip 
tions of the areas and simply describe a typical "'crowd scene" to the 
players. If they wish to accost an individual t then more details can be 
given as the DM wishes. 


A, OLD TOWN: These areas of Rhoona have existed nearly as 
long as the town itself. Each is amaze of alleys, homes, taverns, and 
small shops. The alleys are generally filled with rubble and the 
buildings are dilapidated* The Ducal Guard rarely patrols these 
areas, and thievery is common* Most of the people are friendly in a 
rough sort of way, however* 

The Old Town sections are marked on the Map of Rhoona (MAP 
A) with an A, These areas are made up of wall-to-wall buildings, 
except where the twisting lines designating alleys wind through 
them. These alleys are generally about five feet wide, and cluttered 
with various kinds of trash. The ? marks on the map represent 
taverns, while the 0'$ are shops and stores. All of the other areas in 
the Old Town are taken up by the many squalid residences that 
house the buik of Rhoona's population. 

The homes and shops of the Old Town are wooden structures, with 
doors in front and back. Homes will be occupied by one family, with 
occupancy ranging occasionally up to ten or twelve people! Taverns 
are larger buildings, but also contain only a single large room. 
Residences and taverns will have a large stone hearth in the center of 
the room, and taverns have heavy wooden tables and simple bars, 
behind which are stored many varieties of malt beverages: beer (light 
and dark), ale, and mead. One sp will usually purchase a large glass 
of the brew* Wine and brandy run as high as a gp per glass, and is 
often watered. Of course, after the Duke's recent decree, beer is 
almost nonexistent! 

Shops, taverns, and stores will all be one room buildings that are 
slightly larger than residences. There will be a space, somewhere in 
the building, for the proprietor and his family to eat and sleep. Often, 
a large fireplace will occupy the center of the room. Inventories will, 
of necessity, be small* For a craftsman or trader, there is a base 50% 
chance of a character finding what he or she looks for there. The DM 
should modify this percentage at his or her discretion. He or she 
should judge how common or rare the item being sought is likely to 
be in a town like Rhoona. Common items will have greater than 50% 
chance of being located, and rare items will have a lower than 50% 
chance. (Example: At a tool shop, a common item such as a nail 
might be found as often as 90% of the time, while a carpenter's plane 
might only be located on a roll of 15% or less.) 

In order to determine the name of a specific tavern, the DM should 
roll a d20 and compare the result to the OLD TOWN TAVERN 
TABLE, Once the tavern is named, the DM should make a notation 


on the large town map (MAP A) on the inside cover of the module, 
writing down the number of the specific tavern. Then, if the charac 
ters return to that section of town several weeks or months later, the 
DM will not have to remember the name of each tavern. 

OLD TOWN TAVERN TABLE 
DIE ROLL (420) TAVERN NAME _ 


1 

The Gobbling Gander 

2 

The Waltzing Dolphin 

3 

The Seafarer's Inn 

4 

The Sinking Ship 

5 

The Scarlet Sail 

6 

Buxom Bertha's Inn 

7 

The Rocky Point 

8 

The Quiet Cove 

9 

The Swampy Cellar 

10 

The Roving Eye 

11 

Delightful Dahlia's Inn 

12 

The Dungeon 

13 

The Inn of The Fair Winds 

14 

The Red Dragon Inn 

15 

The Eye of the Basilisk 

16 

The Stormy Port 

17 

The Icehouse 

18 

The Beached Whale 

19 

The Lucky Gull 

20 

The Blarney Chicken 


A similar procedure is used to locate shops and tradesmen in the Old 
Town. The OLD TOWN BUSINESS TABLE lists the types of 
businesses that may be found in the Old Town* As characters move 
through the alleys or avenues of this sector, the DM should roll d% 
and compare the results to that table. It will be noted that each type 
of business has been given a key letter. By placing the corresponding 
letter in the circle for each shop or trader, the DM can keep a 
permanent record of each specific business as it is located. (Note: If 
the characters and DM wish to move quickly through the area, the 
latter may simply assign businesses from the list to the areas that the 
players pass, without rolling the dice.) 


OLD TOWN BUSINESS TABLE 

DICE 


ROLL (d%) 

BUSINESS 

KEY LETTER 

1-10 

Brewery 

A 

IMS 

Fish Market 

B 

16-20 

Vegetable Market 

C 

21 

Meat Market-Beef and Mutton 

D 

22-27 

Blacksmith's Shop 

E 

28-35 

Tailor's Shop 

F 

36-40 

Cobbler's Shop 

G 

41-44 

Icehouse 

H 

45-50 

Dairy Goods Shop 

I 

51-58 

Leatherworker's Shop 

J 

59-63 

Lumber Store 

K 

64-70 

Woodworking Tool Shop 

L 

71-78 

Carpenter's Shop 

M 

79-85 

Weaver's Shop 

N 

86-90 

Ship Builder's Shop 

O 

91-93 

Armorer's Shop 

P 

94-00 

Nautical Supply Store 

Q 

Of course, the 

: characters may choose to ask directions toward a 


particular type of establishment. If they do this, the DM will have to 
place the business before the players have actually come to it. If the 
characters ask a tavern owner or other merchant for directions, the 
directions will be accurate. If they stop a passerby or ask a tavern 
patron, there is a 50% chance that the directions will be false. 


5 



If they have been given true directions, the DM should roll 3d6. The 
result is the number of businesses that the party will have to pass 
before arriving at the one they seek. The DM should then roll a d4 for 
the direction they should travel in order to get to their destination. A 
die roll of 1 is north; 2 is east; 3 is south, and 4 is west, [f false 
directions were given, the DM should simply use the OLD TOWN 
BUSINESS TABLE to describe what the group passes as it moves. 

The amount of money in any building in the Old Town is likely to be 
small, although (rarely!) a thieves' trove may be discovered to con 
tain sizeable riches. In general, homes will have an amount of money 
equal to d% (MOO) value of gp, although the money will be in small 
coins. The money will be hidden in a jar, stuffed in a mattress or 
stored under a floor board. Taverns and shops may have twice that 
amount, but it will be locked in a stout wooden chest. 

B. WAREHOUSES: The large buildings shown along the water 
front are warehouses for goods that are imported and exported by 
Rhoona's traders. Imports include cloth, wine, brandy, beans, corn, 
dates, copper, and whale oil. Common exports are lumber, beer, 
and wool. A warehouse with goods in it will be locked, and will have 
2 12 1st level fighters as guards, depending on the value of the 
merchandise (AC 6, hp 5, MV 90,' D 1-8, ML 8). 

To determine the contents of a given warehouse, locate the number 
of that warehouse on the DM's town map. Find the corresponding 
number on the WAREHOUSE CONTENTS TABLE. (The figure 
in parentheses is the cash value of the goods in the warehouse.) 


WAREHOUSE CONTENTS TABLE 

KEY LETTER _ CONTENTS 

B1 I f GQG bales of Ylaruam silk (50,000 gp) 

B2 Empty and run-down 

B3 5,000 barrels of whale-oil (80,000 gp); lumber 
(5,0000 gp) 

B4 1,000 barrels of wine (50,000 gp); 10,000 barrels 
of beer (100,00 gp) 

B5 10,000 crates of dates, com, and beans 
(100,000 gp) 

B6 Empty 

B7 20,000 bars of copper (20,000 gp) 

B8 30,000 bales of wool (120,000 gp) 

B9 Empty and rat-infested 

B10 10,000 bottles of brandy (100,000 gp); 15 guards! 

Bll Lumber (20,000 gp) 

B12 Empty 

B13 10,000 bales of Thyatian cotton (50,000 gp) 

B14 5,000 bars of copper (5,000 gp); 10,000 bars of 

bronze (20,000 gp); 10,000 bars of iron 
(40,000 gp) 

B15 4,000 barrels of whale-oil (66,000 gp) 


C MARKETPLACES: These two squares are the scenes of 
intensive bartering and bargaining on the weekly market day, when 
farmers bring their goods info town and set up stalls in the plazas 
around each marketplace. Live animals, fresh milk, fresh fish, and 
occasionally apples and cherries will be available on this festive day. 
Some craftsmen also take advantage of the crowds and peddle their 
goods at the market. 

Because of the bargaining that goes on, exact prices of goods will 
have to be determined after considerable haggling between the DM 
and the players. Use the prices listed on the MARKETPLACE 
PRICE TABLE as a guideline. Generally, a merchant will begin by 
asking 2-3 times the listed amount, but with successful wheeling and 
dealing, it is often possible to get the price reduced to one-half the 
figure on the table. 


MARKETPLACE PRICE TABLE 
ITEM AVERAGE COST 


Cow, steer, or horse 100 gp 

Goat, pig, or sheep 60 gp 

Bushel of corn, beans, oats, etc. 10 gp 

Bushel of fresh fruit 10 gp 

1 large fish 1 gp 

Quart of milk, or cheese cube 5 sp 

l dozen eggs 5 sp 

Bolt of silk 20 gp 

Bolt of wool 5 gp 

Leather tunic 10 gp 

Leather boots 5 gp 

Cold weather cloak 20 gp 


D. THE TEMPLE OF THE SPUMING NOOGA: This is 
the temple patronized by most of the seafaring folk of Rhoona. The 
deity of the Spuming Nooga is pictured as a giant whale spouting a 
great column of spray into the air. The alignment of the god and its 
followers is extremely neutral, and believers tend to be very self- 
reliant people. They are generally loyal citizens, paying taxes to the 
Duke and mixing freely with the other citizens of Rhoona. The 
temple is a simple wooden structure near the waterfront, with a large 
central chamber and four smaller rooms in the comers. A 9th level 
cleric, Grinnsven Yenson, presides here, with a half dozen 1st and 
2nd level assistants. The trappings of the religion are simple, and 
there is very little in the temple of value to an outsider. 

E. THE TEMPLE OF FORSETTA: This is the lawful religion 
to which about 3/4 of the citizens of Rhoona belong. Most of the 
building is wooden, but the central sanctuary is made of stone. 
Members of this sect believe very strongly in the authority of the 
Duke, and above him, the King. They tend to be orderly citizens who 
always pay taxes and will unfailingly obey the commands of the 
Ducal Guard. (As long as they believe those commands were issued 
by the Duke!) 

One of the wings of the temple houses the clerics, of whom there are 
many of lower levels, and one each of 6f h, 8th, 11th, and 14th level. 
The other wing contains a meeting and dining hall, as well as many 
small chambers where the clerics may privately counsel and console 
the faithful Donations to the church are encouraged, and a rather 
large trove of wealth has been established. It is stored in a secret 
room of the sanctuary, and includes gold and silver pieces, and 
valuable platters, candlesticks, pitchers, and other implements 
crafted from fine metals and often inlaid with jewels. The total worth 
of the trove is 25,000 gp. Stealing from it would obviously be a highly 
chaotic act and one of the clerics would use a commune spell to 
determine the culprit or culprits. Immediate, appropriate (and fatal!) 
action will be taken against them. 

F. BARRACKS OF THE DUCAL GUARD: See MAP B 
and key under Scenario 1- Skulking Through The Barracks. 

G. MIDDLE CLASS RESIDENCES: These areas, while just 
as crowded and maze-like as the Old Town, contain slightly larger 
dwellings. Nonetheless, the homes are still single room affairs, al 
though it is likely that the husband and wife will have a small alcove in 
which they sleep. Fewer shops can be found in these districts, since 
the residents do most of their shopping at the marketplaces. The 
Middle Class sections of Rhoona are marked with a G on the town 
map. 

As in the old town, taverns are marked with an ?. Reflecting the 
slightly greater wealth of the customers, prices for a glass of beer wil! 
range from 15 cp to 2 sp, and wine or brandy may be as high as 2 gp 
per glass. There is a 50% chance that beer will be available even after 
the Duke's order that all taxes be paid in that beverage. A generous 
bribe (2- 12gp) will be necessary before the bartender will admit to 
this, however, as it is usually reserved for regular customers. 


6 



The DM should roll a dl2 and compare the result to the MIDDLE 
CLASS TAVERN TABLE in order to determine the name of a 
specific tavern in the Middle Class Section. 

MIDDLE CLASS TAVERN TABLE 
DIE ROLL(dl2 ) TAVERN __ 

1 The Crystal Girdle 

2 The Inn of The Wandering Wench 

3 The Sudsy Mug 

4 The Inn of the Evening Star 

5 Oly and Olga s Inn 

6 The Slippery Seal 

7 The Golden Dragon 

8 The Peaceful Sea 

9 The Grinning Goblin 

10 The Inn of the Gleaming Glass 

11 The Honest Traders Inn 

12 The Elegant Eagle 


Although there are not as many businesses in the Middle Class 
district as in the Old Town, a few tradesmen and merchants have 
established shops here. As with the Old Town, the DM should place 
the key letter of a business in the circle marking that establishment 
on the large town map. The following table lists the types of shops 
that may be found here. 


MIDDLE CLASS BUSINESSES TABLE 
DIE 


ROLL <d%> 

TYPE OF BUSINESS 

KEY LETTER 

01-05 

Horsetrader 

A 

06-12 

Brewery 

B 

13-16 

Blacksmith's Shop 

C 

17-20 

Icehouse 

D 

21-25 

Leatherworker's Shop 

E 

26-30 

Carpenter's Shop 

F 

31-38 

Jeweler's Shop 

G 

39-45 

Stonemason's Shop 

H 

46-50 

Wainwright's Shop 

[ 

51-55 

Alchemist's Laboratory 

J 

56-62 

Tailor's Shop 

K 

63-70 

Cobbler's Shop 

L 

71-75 

Armorer's Shop 

M 

76-80 

Moneychanger 

N 

81-87 

Dairyfood Store 

O 

88-91 

Vegetable Market 

P 

92-96 

Fish Mart 

Q 

97-00 

Butcher's Shop 

R 


Since these buildings are larger than those in the Old Town, the 
merchants can maintain better inventories. The DM should assume 
a base 66% chance of the party locating the specific object for which 
they are searching. As before, this is modified according to how 
common or how rare the DM judges the item to be. 

The standard of living is higher in the Middle Class district than in the 
Old Town, so each building is likely to have a little more money in it. 
The amount of wealth in a home will be 101-200 gp (d% + 100), but 
there is a 75% chance that it will be locked in a sturdy wooden chest. 
The businesses will have 200-1200 gp in them (2d6 x 100), The wealth 
will certainly be locked inside of a metal strongbox. Moneychangers 
and jewelers will have 1,000 to 6,000 gp extra available for emergem 
ties. The extra funds will be hidden in a strongbox below a secret 
trapdoor. 


H. ETHANG ARIAN SECTOR: This area is populated by the 
immigrants from the Ethangarian Khanate. These nomadic steppe 
dwellers have established their own small community within the 
town of Rhoona, centered around the huge Temple of Cretia. The 
homes and shops of this area are arranged in a protective semi 
circle, with a wide gateway leading to the front of the temple, Many 
wagons and carts are kept near this gateway, and can be pulled 
across it in a few minutes to create a well-protected fort. The few 
twisting alleys leading through the Ethangarian community can be 
similarly blocked. 

The Ethangarians have brought herds of goats and horses over the 
mountains which they have sold to the people of Rhoona for huge 
profits. Thus, the standard of living in this sector is high, though it 
varies considerably from house to house. The poorest people live on 
the outer fringes of the sector, while the wealthiest members live on 
the inside, fating the temple. Several shops and stores, also facing 
the temple, can be found in the district, for the Ethangarians have a 
fairly self-sufficient community. Blacksmiths, horse trainers, 
butchers, leather workers, wain wrights, and a carpenter have shops 
here, as well as several food merchants. The staple foods include 
milk, cheese, mutton, goat, and bread. 


I. DUCAL PALACE: See detailed key under Scenario 5-To 
The Rescue! Please refer to MAP E for room locations and addi 
tional information. 



J. DWARVEN QUARTERS: These long, low buildings are the 
barracks and shops of the dwarves who are living in Rhoona to work 
on the Ducal Palace, A total of 55 of the stocky folk live here. Several 
smithys, a silversmith, goldsmith, and stonemason's shop occupy 
many of the buildings, with the rest being used as living, eating, and 
drinking quarters. The dwarves are a skilled (and expensive!) labor 
force, doing the work for great profit. Each week or two, a shipment 
of gold is sent by caravan over the passes to Rockhome, so there is 
never a large amount of treasure here. 

The dwarves have managed to hide several dozen kegs of beer from 
the Ducal Guard, and gather in one of the barracks every evening to 
partake of the brew and grumble about the mismanagement of their 
projects by their various human directors. They are strictly lawful in 
alignment, but their loyalty is to their race and home nation of 
Rockhome, rather than to the Duke, 

K. UPPER CLASS RESIDENCES: These large walled build^ 
ings are the homes of retired raiders and traders who were lucky or 
skilled enough to make a respectable fortune during their active 
careers. The houses vary from 7 18 rooms (2d6^6) and will contain 
souvenirs from most parts of the world. The amount of treasure in 
each home will vary from 3,000 to 18,000 gp (3d6 x 1,000). This will 
include silver tableware, pictures, frames, candelabra, skins, cloth 
objects (tapestries, garments, draperies), as well as coins and jewels. 
Each residence will have a 1st level guard (AC 6, hp 5, #AT 1, D L6, 
MV 90, ML 8} for each 1,000 gp of treasure on the premises, and 
there is a 75% chance that L-4 guard dogs (treat as wolves) will be 
patrolling the courtyard at night. Although only four of these resi 
dences are shown on the map, several dozen more spread past the 
town boundary and into the hills beyond. 


7 





THE ADVENTURES 



SCENARIO 1: 

SKULKING THROUGH THE 
BARRACKS 


DM Note: Give the players MAP F (found on Page 32 of this 
module). As the DM, you will use MAP B (Ducal Barracks) and 
MAP A (DM's Map). 

To begin playing the module, the players should then select one of 
the inn locations on MAP F (marked with an ?) in the Old Town as a 
base of operations. The DM may choose any name from the list of 
Old Town taverns, telling the players the name of the inn. Note: 
More inns are marked on the DM's map than the players', since the 
party can't be expected to be familiar with every tavern in the town. 

The party may elect to stay at this inn, not only as a gathering place, 
but as a "residence." Persons who stay overnight in the inns of 
Rhoona generally do not retire at an early hour, since they must 
sleep in the tavern's single room. These lodgings are cheap, how 
ever, generally costing 1 gp per night. This fee includes supper and 
breakfast. If an inn does not satisfy the party's need for privacy, they 
may then rent a small building of their own. The fee will be 10 gp per 
night for the entire one room hut, but no meals are included. Most of 
the tavern owners either rent these places or they can direct the 
group to someone who does. 

Regardless of where the group chooses to stay, the adventure will 
begin in a tavern. The following individuals will also be in whatever 
inn the groups selects as a starting point: 

* 3'18 sailors, merchants, and thieves 

* One half of the above number of women 

* A 4th level dwarf, (AC 3, hp 24, #AT 1, D1 8, MV 60/ ML 10 AL, 
L) with battle axe and plate mail. 

* A 14th level cleric, (AC 8, hp52, MV 120,'ML 11, AL L), wears a 
tattered robe and appears to be a beggar. 

The dwarf is Grimmvat Stonebreaker, a mason who has been work 
ing on the Ducal Palace. His curiosity has brought him into the Old 
Town. The cleric is Eric of Forsett, high priest of the Temple of 
Forsetta, He is following the group of adventurers, since he has 
knowledge that might help them in their mission. Eric would like to 
see the Temple of Cretia destroyed, but his lawful religion prevents 
him from taking direct action. He is limited to aiding the group with 
advice and information. He may also use his restorative spells on the 
party between scenarios, if the group is able to locate him. 

Eric has the following spetis: 

First Level: cure light wounds (x2); detect evil; detect magic; 
light; protection from evil 

Second Level: bless; find traps; know alignment; resist fire; 
speak with animal 

Third Level: continual light; cure disease; locate object; 
remove curse; striking 

Fourth Level: create water; cure serious wounds; neutralize 
poison; profeetiort/eviJ 10' radius; speak with plants 

Fifth Level: commune; create food; dispel evil; raise dead. 


The present atmosphere in the tavern is quiet and solemn, since no 
beer is available. Expensive wine can be purchased, but does not 
satisfy these customers. Grimmvat will grumble irately about "hu 
man mismanagement." A short time will pass, while throats get 
drier, and Grimmvat grows more vocal as he grumbles, "Blasted 
decrees! Where does the Duke get these harebrained ideas, any 
way? If dwarves were in charge...." 

Some of the other patrons will react nervously to this complaining, 
but none of them will pick a fight with the sturdy dwarf. The players, 
of course, may react in any way they please. 

Soon, a commotion will be heard in the street, and a passerby will 
stick his head through the tavern door and announce, "The Duke's 
herald approaches! There must be a new decree!" Very near to the 
tavern, the herald and a guard of ten soldiers will pause. The herald 
will unroll a scroll and read loudly: 

"Be it known to all that his Benign Munificence, Stephen, 
Duke of Rhoona, has declared the following to be official 
decree: 





whcReas, the scheming. cpecdy, and cunninq 
nauipe of the dwacvenfotk is known to all 

wheoeas them shoot statuoes and Bcapded 
appeaPAiices ape An af f com to the sensiBillties 
of decent humans, 

and wfaepeas. the citizens of Rhoona have 
Already Bopne the insuLtinq ppesence of these 
epeatupes f op too Iona, 

it is h£p€By decreed that a state of war exists 
Between the foul and copRupt domain of 
pockhome and the vnrtuous and pelnapled 
duchy of Rhoona 

fuRthepmope, any dwapf found to Be within 
the poundages of said duchy within one houp 
of the oeadinq of this decpee will bc consideped 
a danqepous camtinal susject to appest its 
punishment shall b€ a pustic shaving of its face 
and stpetchinq of its vile pepson upon the pack, 
until such time as it has attained a mom human 
statupej 

such is the wopd of the duke of Rhoonar 





A large crowd will have gathered to hear this pronouncement, but 
reaction will be subdued. There is little sentiment in Rhoona for a 
war against the powerful nation of Rockhome. After making the 
decree, the herald and his escort will move up the street, and the 
citizens will drift back to whatever they were doing. 


8 



"It S s Draco who's behind this, and you can mark my words!" The 
exclamation from Grimmvat will be within hearing of the players, but 
the dwarf is talking to no one in particular. "If it's war he wants, then 
it's war he'll get. 'Foul and corrupt domain' indeed!" The dwarf will 
work himself into a sputtering frenzy, and, after several more oaths 
and declarations, will move off toward the dwarven community. His 
anger is directed at the Duke and his guards, so a friendly approach 
by characters will calm him somewhat. He will tell the party, if asked, 
that the dwarves have noticed some strange occurrences at the 
Ducal Barracks lately.,, "people that don't belong there coming and 
going/ 1 He will repeat his assertion that Draco Stormsailer is some 
how behind this strange declaration, and suggest that answers might 
be learned at the barracks. 

His conversation will be brief, as he needs to hurry to join the 
dwarves that will be leaving shortly to carry the Duke's word to 
Rockhome. "Shaving and stretching, huh? I'd like to see 'em try. 
Give me thirty seconds with that confounded Duke...and you can 
throw in Draco Stormsailer as well.,HI show both of 'em what it 
means to tangle...." Grimmvat will be audible for several minutes as 
he fumes and storms up the street. 

If the characters take the dwarf's advice, they may proceed to the 
barracks at any time to begin the search. If not, Eric of Forsett, who 
has overheard the exchange, will approach quietly. "Wisdom may 
hide behind a hairy face/'he will whisper as he exits the tavern. If this 
due does not work, Eric will wait 24 hours before contacting the 
group. "Seek your answers in the lair of the Draco!" will be his very 
unsubtle due at this second meeting. 

NOTE: The players should be allowed free access to the back 
ground information at the beginning of this module. If they have 
forgotten who Draco is or where he may be found, the DM should 
reread the background information to refresh their memories. 

The dwarves, meanwhile, will leave Rhoona and begin the trip to 
Rockhome. It will take seven days for them to reach their capital, 
another seven days to raise an army, and seven days to return with 
an army to Rhoona. All reasonable citizens of Rhoona know that the 
city's forces will have no chance against the powerful dwarven army, 
and that the war must be prevented at all costs. The only hope of 
doing this is to cure the Duke's insanity, at which time he will revoke 
his decrees and, after explaining the curse to the approaching 
dwarves, defuse the situation. 

The Duke's decree will obviously create an awkward situation for 
any dwarven player characters. Beginning an hour after the decree 
has been made, any soldiers of the Ducal Guard who see a dwarf 
inside the town will make an attempt to arrest him. An invisibility 
spell is one obvious solution, but it will be difficult to keep the dwarf 
invisible on a constant basis. If the group is walking down a street 
with even a few other people on it, they may attempt to screen a 
single dwarf with their bodies. The chances for succeeding in this by 
having the other characters surround the dwarf in such a way that 
the guards do not notice him is 10% per screening character. Exam 
ple: If seven characters are gathered around a single dwarf on a 
semi-crowded street, they would have a 70% chance of hiding a 
dwarf from the eyes of the passing Ducal Guards. (7 characters x 
10% = 70%), 

KEY TO THE DUCAL BARRACKS 

The barracks are surrounded by a 20' high wall, just inside of a 
defensive ditch that is IQ' deep. A flimsy 4' wide catwalk runs around 
the entire perimeter of the wall on the inside, but no guards will be 
patrolling here. The gates are sturdy and double barred. They will be 
closed at night, but any gate has a 66% chance of standing open 
during the daylight hours. The Ducal Guard has grown complacent 
and overconfident in their role as the Duke's enforcers, and as a 
result they will not be expecting an attack. Doors to the buildings will 
be barred unless otherwise noted, and a barred door has the effect of 
adding 2 to a player's roll to "open doors/' Thus, if a character opens 
doors on a 1,2, or 3 normally, he would need to roll a "T to open a 
barred door. Note that a "1" will always open a door. 


Servant and Guard Encounters 

There is a chance of encountering either servants or guards while 
the group is in the barracks courtyard. Roll a d6 each turn, with a "5" 
indicating a servant encounter and a "6" indicating a guard 
encounter. 

Servant encounters will be with 14 individuals. Depending on the 
area in the courtyard, these may be cooks, stableboys, serving 
maids, weapon tenders, or laundrywomen. They will ignore the 
party unless accosted, at which time there is a 25% chance that they 
will cry an alarm, a 25% chance that they will aid the group by 
answering questions, and a 50% chance that they will claim to know 
nothing. 

Guard encounters will be with 16 1st level soldiers (AC 6, hp 5, D 
1-6, MV 90/ ML 8). They will approach the party and arrogantly 
demand to know their business. If attacked, they will cal! for aid, and 
have a 50% chance per round of being heard. If the cry for help is 
heard, 20 1st level guards and 3 3rd level sergeants-at-arms (AC 6, 
hp 16, ML 10) will arrive in four rounds. 

The Ducal Guard totals some 120 soldiers and 25 officers, but 
approximately 2/3 of these will be on duty in the town or palace at 
any given time. Thus, the number of soldiers within the barracks 
only represents about 1/3 of the Duke's entire force. 

L SERVANTS* BUILDING, _ 

This small, two story building is clean, but in need of repair. 

It has a single door and no windows. 

This is the home of several dozen of the garrison's servants. The 
outer door is unlocked. Few servants will be here during the day, but 
all of them will be present at night. As a group, they will be timid and 
frightened. None will offer information in the presence of other 
servants. There is nothing of value to the party here, save a few cp 
and sp that individual servants may have managed to save from their 
meager wages, 

2. STABLE, _ 

This large, weather-beaten structure looks much like a 
barn. A set of double doors gives access to the east end of 
the building, and the smell of animal manure hangs in the 
air here. __ 

The doors to this building are unlocked, Inside, six separate corrals 
are fenced off, with a closed gate leading to each. Immediately inside 
the doorway, to the left and right, are pens holding 10 dogs each (AC 
7, HD 2+2, hp 10, #AT 1, D 16, MV 180' (60'), Save FI, ML 8). The 
dogs will bark at intruders, but cannot get out of their pens. The 
other pens hold 6 milk cows, 13 milk goats, 6 warhorses, 8 draft 
horses, and 18 riding horses. During the day, 4 stableboys and a 
houndmaster will be present. These servants will react to the party 
as other servants; i.e, answer questions, sound alarm, or claim to 
know nothing, based on a d% roll. 

A raised loft contains saddles, bridles, and gear for all of the horses. 
Much hay is piled in the loft, which can be reached by a ladder to 
each side of the door, and milk buckets are also kept there. 

3. CELLBLOCK. _ 

This is a plain, stark room, barren of any amenities. Five 
metal barred cells, a table, and a chair are the only objects 
in the room. Two of the cells seem to be occupied, 

The door from the outside leading to this room is barred and locked. 
The two occupied cells each holds a badly injured and clean-shaven 
dwarf. They have been stretched on the rack so severely that they 
cannot move, but will swear vile oaths at any persons they see. 
There is a 10% chance per round that these oaths will bring a 1st level 
guard from the barracks to tell the dwarves to be quiet. 

If these dwarves notice that the characters have a dwarf among the 
group, they will cease their swearing. Because of their injuries, they 
cannot even walk unaided, and so will be of no help to the characters 


9 






in a physical sense. If they are asked why they are in such a state, 
they will explain that the Ducal Guard caught them as they were 
attempting to leave the town, several hours after the decree banning 
dwarves was announced. They will beg the party to give them 
weapons, which they will conceal in their cells and use to attack the 
guards as soon as they get the chance, 

4. BARRACKS. _ 

This immense room is filled with many rows of wooden 
bunks. Many of these bunks have people sleeping on them, 
and several men in the uniform of the ducal guard are 
sitting on beds in different parts of the room. 

This is the barracks of the Ducal Guard, Forty guards will be present 
here, minus any that the party has disposed of since entering the 
barracks compound. Of these, 75% will be 1st level (AC 6, hp 5, D 
1-6* MV 90/ ML 8) and 25% 2nd level (hp II, ML 9). 120 bare wooden 
bunks occupy most of the room, with a small chest at the foot of 
each. These chests are unlocked, and only 10% of them contain 
anything of value. In these cases, the "treasure" may range from 3-18 
gp value, usually in cp or sp. The doors into the barracks room from 
the courtyard will be barred, but those from other sections of the 
building will open freely. 

5. BARRACKS KITCHEN. 

The door from the outside is unbarred. 

The room contains several large day ovens, and some 
stacks of pots and pans, A pair of dosed doors covers a 
cabinet on one of the room's walls. 

The kitchen contains everything necessary to produce those delec 
table meals that are common to military life everywhere. Huge pots* 
kettles, ladles, and ovens occupy most of the room* and a pantry 
with crates of flour and dried meat covers one wall. It will be occu 
pied by four cooks (hp 4, ML 6) from I hour before daylight until 
dark. 

6. MESS HALL. 

The door to the courtyard is unbarred. 

This large room contains many long tables with benches on 
either side of them. A stairway at the end of the hallway 
leads to an open, dark space above. 

The mess hall is usually empty, but at mealtimes - morning, noon, 
and evening - the room will ring with the noisy shouts of the dining 
soldiers. The noise will be dearly audible to anyone approaching any 
of the doors to the mess hall. 

7. SERGEANTS-AT -ARMS' QUARTERS, 

The door to this room is barred. 

This room holds two large tables, a desk, and a dozen 
chairs. It is unoccupied when the door is opened. _1 

The sergeants who are off-duty are sleeping in room 8. They will hear 
the doors smashed open, however, and in two rounds they will 
enter* fully armed and armored. 

8. SERGEANTS-AT-ARMS 1 BARRACKS. _ 

Twelve wooden bunks with thin woolen mattresses are 
placed around the perimeter of this room. Each has a chest 
at its foot. 

Four 3rd level fighters (AC 6, hp 16* D 1-8, MV 90/ ML 10) will be 
sleeping here, until the door to room 7 is smashed. They will quickly 
don leather armor and carry shields and bngswords into the fight, 
entering room 7 two rounds after they hear the door smashed. Each 
of the chests is locked* and contains 10-40 gp (ld4 x 10) worth of 
treasure in gold and silver coins, 

9- ARMORY. _ 

This low building is very solidly constructed, and has no 
windows* The door is made of iron* and is locked and 
double barred. 


Within the first room are eight 1st level soldiers* (AC 6, hp 5, D 1-6, 
MV 90/ ML 8) one 3rd level, (AC 6, hp 17* D 18, ML 10), and a 5th 
level officer ( AC 4, hp 28, D 1-8* ML 12), Note that while the officer is 
alive, the other soldiers will not need to check morale. 

The room contains several tables and benches as well as a desk that 
is strewn with papers. The latter are the records listing each person 
that has a weapon or item of armor checked out of the building. 
Neatly stacked on one of the tables next to a set of crude bone dice 
are 18 gp, 58 sp, and 40 cp. 

The doors leading to rooms 10 and 11 are made of metal, and are 
locked tightly. The keys to these doors are kept on a ring carried by 
the officer on his belt. 

10, WEAPON STORAGE ROOM. _ 

Many orderly racks of weapons are placed around the 
room, including swords, spears* bows* and arrows. 

Although much of the rack space is empty* there are still: 31 cross 
bows, 800 quarrels, 35 quivers, 62 shortswords* 11 bngswords, 33 
pikes, and 80 spears stored in the room. None of the weapons is 
magical. 

11, ARMOR STORAGE ROOM, _ 

This large room is mostly empty, but several racks of what 
look like clothing are placed around the walls. In the center 
of the room is a large pile of leather. 

This room is used to store the garrison's armor. Hanging on a rack 
on the far wall are 12 suits of leather armor, and 3 coats of chain mail 
are near the door. Hanging against another wall are 21 shields* and 
the center of the room is piled high with huge, bulky masses of 
leather, A closer examination of the leather will reveal it to be 
barding (horse armor). 

12, UPPER FLOOR ENTRY ROOM. _ 

A rickety stairway climbs from the courtyard to a barred 
door leading to this room. The stairway from the mess hall 
enters through a hatch in the floor which is currently open. 

A thick trapdoor is hinged so as to be able to be closed 
quickly over this hatch, and three metal bars are easily 
slipped through a set of brackets to hold the trapdoor shut. 

Since the trapdoor is stronger than the stairs leading to it, any 
attempts to smash it open from below will simply cause the stairway 
to collapse. The room is empty. Only the door to room 30 is locked. 

13, OFFICERS' AND SPECIALISTS' MESS HALL. 

This room has four tables and several dozen benches in it. 

An open doorway at the far end leads to what is apparently 
a cooking area. Each of the tables is covered with a white 
doth. 

The doorway at the far end of the room does indeed lead to a 
kitchen, containing two small ovens, cooking utensils* a small pantry 
with flour, fresh meat, ice, a keg of beer* and a chest with a silver set 
of dishes worth 400 gp. The cloths over the tables are made of fine 
linen, and are worth 30 gp apiece, 

14, SERVANTS' QUARTERS. _ 

The door leads to a short hallway. Two doors are along the 
left-hand wall, and another door is at the far end. 

The three rooms opening off this corridor are the homes of the 10 
servants assigned to the officers and specialists. Each of the rooms 
contains enough plain wooden bunks for the occupants, arid a plain 
table with two straight-backed chairs, 

Four unmarried female servants occupy the first room, four unmar 
ried men are in the second* and an older married couple live in the 
third. Their reactions to the party should be determined with the 
usual procedure for barracks servants. (Refer to the Servant and 
Guard Encounters in the first part of the KEY TO THE DUCAL 
BARRACKS.) 


10 













NOTE ON THE SPECIALISTS 1 QUARTERS (Rooms 15-21): 

Each of these rooms has one or two residents. They will be gone 
(working) during the day, but present at night. Unlike servants, they 
are loyal to the guards and will try to call an alarm if possible. 
Specialists are * 4 0" level, with 4 hp, unless otherwise mentioned. 


15, houndmaster s quarters. 



The boatbuilder will not be found in this room, since he is staying at 
the waterfront until the completion of his current project. 

18. BLACKSMITH S QUARTERS_ 


This room contains several broken swords on a desk, as 
well as the usual bunk . 

The smith specializes in weapons work, and plans to take the broken 
swords to his shop just outside of the barracks for repairs. 

19. MAGIC-USER'S QUARTERS. _ 

In this room is a bed and a cluttered workbench. Some 
vials of oddly colored liquids and many shallow dishes filled 
with a wide variety of unidentifiable substances are on the 
bench. 

A 5th level magic-user dwells here {AC 8, hp 11, MV 120/ D 1-4, 
ML 7). He carries a dagger upon his person, and his door is wizard 
locked. A small lab with many vials and packets of mysterious 
ingredients is at the far end of the room. The magic-user's spells are: 

First Level; read magic; magic missile 

Second Level: mirror image; wizard lock 

Third Level: invisibility 



[f he is in his room and someone attempts to smash the door, the 
enchanter will make himself invisible if he has enough time. He will 
then attempt to slip out the door and warn the fighter and thief from 
rooms 20 and 21* The three will attempt to deal with the party 
without calling for further aid. 

Among the vials in the magic-user's lab are a potion of speed and a 
potion of giant strength. The enchanter wears a ring of protec 
tion + L He has a sack with 179 gp hidden under his bed. 

20, WEAPONMASTER'S ROOM. _ 

This room is similar to the others on the hallway, contain 
ing a bed, desk, and chair. A burly fully-armed fighter is 
standing in the center of the room. As the door opens, he 
whirls to face the intruders and draws a gleaming long- 
sword. 

The resident of this room is fully armed and armored since he is 
preparing for a training session with one of the officers. He is a 12th 
level fighter (AC 1, hp 60, MV 60/ D 4-11 [ld8+3], ML 11) charged 
with the combat education of the Duke's garrison. He wears plate 
mail and carries a shield +1. His favorite weapon is his longsword 
+2. His room is bare except for his weapons and armor, and he 
keeps his door barred. 


21. THIEF'S ROOM* _ 

A bed, desk, and chair are the only items of furniture in this 
room. A swarthy, dark haired man with a long scar on one 
cheek leaps to his feet and faces the door as it opens. His 
hand goes to the hilt of a sword at his side, but he does not 
draw it immediately. 

The resident of this room is a 10th level thief (AC 5 [-2 dex. adjust 
ment], hp 21, MV 90/ D 2-7 [ld6+l], ML 9, AL C) who serves the 
Duke as a spy. He is Draco's partner in the plot to overthrow the 
Duke. He will join the fighter and magic-user in fighting the party if 
one of them asks him to. If surprised in his room* he will attempt to 
talk his way out of the situation. He bears a shartsword +1 and 
wears elven boots. He has a locked strongbox with 210 gp, 180 ep, 
and a 500 gp ruby in it hidden under his bed. The lock contains a 
poison needle trap, and the key is on a thong around his neck. 

NOTE ON THE OFFICERS' QUARTERS (Rooms 22 - 28): 

Since the duty times of these men vary, regardless of time of day, 
only the rooms that mention a person will be occupied. The resi 
dents of the others will be on duty or sleeping elsewhere, as many of 
these higher ranking soldiers keep quarters in town. The walls of this 
building are thick, so the officers will not have heard any commotion 
below them or in the specialists' quarters. If one of the officers is 
attacked in his quarters, however, he will shout an alarm that will 
bring the other two fighters in the area to his aid. The doors to all of 
the rooms in this section will be locked , and the keys will be with the 
respective residents. 

22. OFFICER'S ROOM. __ 

There is a table, a chair, and bed in this room. A blanket on 
the bed is pulled over a figure that appears to be a sleeping 
person* A nearly empty wine bottle sits on the table, and a 
strongbox rests at the foot of the bed. 

A 5th level fighter (AC 9 [4], hp 26, MV 120' [60'], D 1-8, ML 11) is 
sleeping in this room. The statistics in brackets represent his status 
in chain mail armor, which he will don if given 2 rounds of warning. 
The strongbox at the foot of his bed is locked, and contains an extra 
suit of chain mail, a sack with 230 gp and 390 sp in it, and a woolen 
cloak. 

23. EMPTY OFFICER'S ROOM. _ 

This room is bare, except for a blanket over a wooden bed, 
a table, and a chair. 

24. DOUBLE ROOM. _ 

Two unmade beds, a table with two chairs, and a desk are 
the furnishings in this room. 

Under each of the beds is a locked footlocker. The first contains a 
cloak, leather tunic, and small sack of jewels (25 gems worth 10 gp 
apiece). The second locker holds a cloak, a suit of chain mail armor, 
a mace, and has a false bottom (locate as a secret door). Beneath the 
false bottom is a leather pouch containing 260 gp, 110 ep, and 345 sp. 

25. CAPTAIN'S ROOM. __ 

This room contains a desk and chair, a bed with several 
blankets on it, and a large chest. A tall man is seated at the 
desk, but quickly rises to his feet as the door opens. It will 
be seen that he has been working on a carving of a long- 
ship, and as a matter of fact a pile of woodshavings coats 
the top of the desk. 

This captain is a 6th level fighter (AC 9 [2], hp 30, MV 120' [60'], D 
2-9, ML 11). His door is locked and barred, and if given 2 rounds, the 
captain will put on his armor, changing his statistics to those in the 
brackets. The chest is against the wall opposite the door, and is 
locked. The key to the chest is hidden behind the captain's belt, and 
the chest contains a woolen cloak, suit of leather armor, and small 
wooden box containing a 200 gp diamond, 31 gp, and 7 pp. He fights 
with a longsword +1. 


11 













26. CAPTAIN'S ROOM, _ 

A neatly-made bed, desk, small chest, table, and chairs 
occupy this room. Several papers are on the desk. 

Most of the papers are requisition forms for various supplies, if the 
players look closely, they will see that 500 suits of leather armor, 500 
short swords, 150 crossbows, 3,000 quarrels, 200 shields, thousands 
of gallons of milk and cheese, and tons of meat and flour have all 
been ordered for the Ducal Guard. The bottom sheet on the pile is 
an order, signed by Draco Stormsailer, authorizing the drafting of 
600 men-at-arms from the city^s population. The chest is locked, and 
contains a suit of plate mail, a longsword, an elven cloak, and a 
shield. The cloak will appear normal unless a detect magic spell is 
used. 

27. COMMANDER'S ROOM. _ 

A carefully made bed, a desk, a table and chair are the 
furnishings of this room. A sturdy-looking warrior in plate 
mail armor is seated at the table sharpening a sword. _ 

The warrior is a 7th level fighter (AC 0, hp 40, MV 60/ D 3-10 [+2 
strength bonus], ML 12). He is preparing for a practice session with 
the fighting instructor in room 20. A rack holding 6 fine daggers is on 
the desk. None of them is magical, but jeweled hilts, golden blades, 
and exquisite craftsmanship make them worth the following: 750gp, 
600 gp, 500 gp (x3), and 400 gp. A small chest is hidden under the bed 
containing 2 cloaks, a suit of leather armor, a shortsword, and a 
small sack holding 110 pp and 4 800 gp rubies. The fighter wears 
plate mail +2, 

28. HIGH COMMANDER'S ROOM, _ 

This room is bare except for a neatly made bed, a desk, and 
a chair. 

An unlocked and empty chest is under the bed. This is the room of 
the 9th level fighter who is Draco's chief lieutenant and fellow con 
spirator. He stays at the room of his mistress in the town, and so 
rarely uses this room. 

29. PRACTICE ROOM. __ 

This is a targe empty room. Many nicks and gouges have 
been carved into the walls, 

This chamber is used by the officers for weapons practice. Because 
they use the room frequently, sounds of combat in the officers' 
quarters will not seem unusual to the soldiers below. 

30. DRACO'S RECEPTION CHAMBER. _ 

This sparsely furnished room contains only a table, four 
chairs, and two benches. A tapestry depicting a longship 
riding out a stormy sea hangs on the outside wall. 


This is the entry room to Draco Stormsailer's quarters. Both the 
door from room 12 and the door into room 31 are locked. 

31, PRIVATE DINING ROOM. _ 

A long table with 14 ornate, straight backed chairs occu 
pies the center of the room. Six soft armchairs are in the 
corners, a buffet with a collection of fine silver and crystal 
tableware stands against one wall, and a long trophy case is 
opposite it. 

The silver is worth 800 gp and the crystal 1,000 gp, but the latter is 
extremely fragile and would be difficult to transport . The trophy case 
contains prizes that Draco has seized, usually by force, from the far 
corners of the world. Among them are five bottles of fine wine worth 
200 gp apiece, four paintings worth 500gp each, and two exquisitely 
crafted rugs, worth 500 gp apiece. 

32. DRACO'S SERVANTS' QUARTERS. _ 

The large room is a general kitchen and work area, with a 
large pantry tucked into an alcove. A large table, an oven, 
and a waterpump are placed around the room. 

The pantry contains fine meats, breads, and cheeses. Three kegs of 
beer are also stored in here, as well as a dozen bottles of wine, worth 
20 gp apiece. The beer is literally priceless in thirsty Rhoona, but a 
buyer may be difficult to locate, since tavern owners are afraid of the 
Ducal Guard. If the player characters want to try to sell the beer to a 
tavemkeeper, the DM should roll a d6 to determine the tavernkeep- 
er's reaction. On a roll of 1-2, the tavernkeeper will buy the been On 
a roll of 3-4, he will do nothing. On a roll of 5-6, he will alert the Ducal 
Guard. 

The two small rooms at the back of these quarters are the chambers 
of the four servants, a married couple to each room. The servants 
will have retreated here when strangers enter the apartment, since 
they know that Draco is not at home. They will cower fearfully if 
approached, and will furnish no information unless very heavy 
handed or threatening steps are taken by the party. In any event, 
they do not know about the secret room beyond Draco's bedroom. 

33- OFFICE AND LIBRARY. _ 

Two comfortable chairs, a desk with a simple wooden 
chair, and two bookshelves are the furnishings of this 
room. The desk is strewn with papers, and many books are 
on the shelves. _ 

The papers, upon examination, will be seen to be duplicates of those 
in room 26. The bookshelves contain several volumes on boatbuild 
ing and sailing, as well as a dusty history of Rhoona and a much 
handled tome entitled: "The Escapades o) Draco Stormsailer- 
Scourge of the Seas!" 


12 



















34. TROPHY ROOM. _ 

This unusual room has a lush layer of furs on the floor. 
White and black bearskins, dire wolf hides, and the skins of 
all of the great cats have been piled throughout the room. 
Along one wall, posed so as to almost appear real, is the 
skin and mounted head of a red dragon. Along the opposite 
wall are mounted the heads of wild boars, a giant, several 
dwarves, a displacer beast, owl bear, troll, unicorn, and 
woolly rhinoce rous. _ 

These trophies represent the remains of creatures that Draco has 
slain throughout the world. Obviously, the garrison commander 
takes a great deal of pleasure in killing things. The door at the far end 
of the room is locked. 

35. DRACO'S BEDROOM. _ 

This large room contains a huge and richly quilted bed, a 
table with four chairs, a number of tapestries, and a war* 
drobe closet. On the table is a full bottle of wine and two 
crystal goblets. The tapestries illustrate battle and sailing 
scenes in great detail, and feature prominently the exploits 
of a tall, black-bearded warrior with a "D" emblazoned on 
the front of his tunic. 

The wardrobe closet contains a suit of plate mail, leather armor, and 
a dozen ornate robes. All of these are emblazoned with an elaborate 

TD". 

36. SECRET TREASURE ROOM. 

The secret door to this room is further concealed by a tapestry. It is 
opened by pushing in on a knot in the pineboard wall. 


Three chests are stacked at one end of this narrow room, 
and a small writing table and chair are at the far end. A 
piece of pa rchment is on the table. _ 

A letter written in an obscure code is on the table. Each of the chests 
is locked, and the keys are with Draco in the palace. 

The first chest contains a paralyzing gas that will affect everyone in 
the treasure room for 2 12 hours, unless a thief successfully removes 
the trap. Inside the chest is an ornate helmet. It is a Helm of 
Reading Languages and Magic. The second chest contains many 
coins: 1.060 gp, 1,300 sp, and 280 pp. The third chest holds gleaming 
gems, worth 100 gp (xlO).BOgp (x2),50gp{x5),25gp(x8) and 10 gp 
{*70). 

If the Helm of Reading Languages and Magic is used to decipher 
the coded letter, the followingjnay be read: __ _ 


- l, My dear Draco, future Duke of Rhoona, 

The wheels are well in motion now. The pronouncement of war 
against the dwarves will be forthcoming shortly, and little resist .. 
ance is apparent thus far from the populace. The slobbering idiot of 
a Duke will have only a short time left to reign when he declares this 
foolishness - I am sure you must agree that my curse is working 
admirably! Be alert: the moment for you to move is near! 

f Your faithful compatriot 

Xanathon 
High Priest of Cretia 




SCENARIO 2: 

THE TEMPLE OF CHAOS 



DM Note: Use MAP C for this scenario. 

The beginning of the second phase of the adventure will depend 
greatly upon the group's behavior following the search of the bar 
racks, The DM must keep careful track of the passage of time, since 
the dwarven army is gathering while play is going on. The curse must 
be removed before that army arrives or Rhoona stands a very good 
chance of being sacked and burned. 

The scenario as written here will assume that the party of advenlur 
ers has returned to the inn where they started the game. If they go to 
a different inn, very little modification will be required. If they return 
to their rented room(s), they can hear the commotion in the street 
announcing the herald's arrival, and will presumably move out to 
hear the new decree. Eric of Forsett, still in his beggar disguise, 
might talk to them in the crowd after the decree has been made. If 
the group is relatively strong after the barracks adventure (i.e, they 
still have most of their spells and hit points), they might wish to 
proceed directly to the temple of Cretia. In this case, they could hear 
the decrees in the streets along the way, and there would be no need 
for Eric to contact them, since they will have already figured out that 
their next objective is the temple. 

Unless the group chooses to proceed directly to the temple, 24 
hours will pass following their search of the barracks before the next 
ducal decree is made. If this time requirement would place the 
announcement in the middle of the night, then substitute 36 hours 
for 24. 


In any event, the herald will soon walk the streets again, calling out 
the news of the Duke's latest inspiration. The announcement is as 
follows: 



"Be it known to all that Hs Benign Munificense, Dukfe 
Stephen Rhoona, has declared the following to be official 
decree: 

wheceAS, tt is AppAeent to Alt wuft the most feeBle minded * 
that the sun is the most illustrious of heavenly Bodies, 


* 

•• 

t. 


and whepeASr tt is of utmost impoRunce to mjunum the 
goodwill of this most Blazing orb of flame duping the 
coming strife, 

it is hepefly decceed Urn the Burning of ill com&ustiflle 
mate^iAls - to wit. wood. oil. cloth. peat, etc. etc, etc, -is 
outlAwed duping the peoiod of die sun s Resting, lest we 
tncuR the )eAlous wRAth of his most heAtful self! 

the htxjps include chose rimes Between the suns touching 
of the westepn hORizon And his elrniamq once Again into 
the heavens of the ea so 


such is the wood of the duke of flhoorur 


£ 



13 






DUCAL BARRACKS 

MAP B 


1 square = 20 feet 




1 square - 10 feet 2nd FLOOR 


1982 TSR Hobbies* Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


14 


















TEMPLE OF CRETIA 

MAP C 

1 square = 10 feet 



" l%2 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



















SHRINE OF CRETIA 

MAP D 


Window 


Drapery 


Column 


Portcullis 


Cell Door 


LEVEL II 


1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 












DUCAL PALACE 

MAPE 


1 square = 10 feet 



-- 1 - 

85 0. 88 ? r --~ 




(O 


86 


•-L-¦ -f- •- 


LEVEL I 



95 



103 -q-- flBPTf - ( ^>96 
l ! r, 104: r I 


05 -U 107 


LEVEL II 


| CA j Secret Door 
|l _ ll Bookshelf 


EEI 


Column 

Door 

Bars 




T3 


f 

9 

L' 

j-'i 




a 

[-J 


|-f 

K 7 i 

- i 

r 


L 


.. Bars 

| | Table 


ja "- Chair 

m Bed 
i 1 1 Display Case 


i 

l "(tm) 



93 

r if: 

H 


: 



_ u _ 

J 


.11 






95-p| 

2- 




94 

i 

h _ 

A 

i 


it . 

-" -- 


r 





I /p\ Trap Door 
| in Floor 

/^l Trap Doot 
J in Ceiling 

w\/wvi Drapery 


6 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 













This decree will be received by most of the populace with a sort of 
resigned indifference, as if they can no longer be surprised by the 
Duke's follies. As before, the herald will have a sturdy group of 
guardsmen with him, so none of the reactions will be blatantly 
hostile. A few of the more intelligent or thoughtful citizens might 
express grave misgivings as to the Duke's mental health, but these 
will be whispered quietly, and party members will not overhear such 
comments unless they are expressly eavesdropping. 

Eric of Forsett, still disguised, will approach the group following this 
announcement. He will mutter to them, "The curse of the Cretin 
must be stemmed at its source, 1 ' then slowly shuffle away from the 
party. If stopped by a character and asked for further information, 
he will simply say, "You cannot stop the rain with a bucket on the 
ground; you must go to the cloud that sheds it*" He will ignore all 
further questions and walk away from the group* If pursued, he will 
not acknowledge any statements or queries. 

As before, the cleric will again allow 24 hours to pass. If the group has 
not deciphered his advice in this time, he will again seek them out 
and sternly admonish them, "The High Priest of Cretia is an evil 
blight on our community, Seek him, and demand an accounting for 
the Duke!" 

Eric has already approached the Duke and attempted to use a 
remove curse spell, unsuccessfully. He realizes that the power of 
the god, Cretia, is involved here, and that only Xanathon holds the 
key to a return to sanity in Hhoona. He is unsure of Xanathon's 
motives, but understands that the very survival of Rhoona is at 
stake* 

KEY TO THE TEMPLE OF CRETIA 

Many people, both Ethangarians and Rhoonians, pass through the 
gateway into the community around the temple, so ¦ if the party acts 
calmly and passively - they will not be noticed. Once inside the 
Ethangarian sector, much activity will be visible at all times of day 
and night. Again, if the group moves quietly toward the temple, they 
will attract no attention* The Temple of Cretia is a massive stone 
structure, and only three doorways are visible, all on the front wall. 
All of these portals are made of sturdy wood, but only the one to the 
group's left (outside of room 41) will be locked. 

NOTE: A number of doors throughout the temple will be locked. 
Unless a locked door leads to a person s quarters, Xanathon will be 
the only person in the temple with the key* In the former case, of 
course, each person has the key to his own room. 

37. HALLOWED HALL. _ 

The double doors lead into the main sanctuary of the 
worshippers of Cretia. Massive stone columns support a 
roof that is 20 1 above the floor, A raised dais, opposite the 
doors, elevates a statue of the grotesque Cretia. The god is 
pictured with a scowling human face upon the torso of a 
gorilla, with four bear-like feet. Its eyes will glitter evilly with 
reflected torchlight, as each of the columns holds a bracket 
with a burning torch set in it. 

Upon close examination, the eyes of the statue will be recognized as 
two 20 gp gems. The doors to rooms 38 and 39 are locked, and ail of 
their residents will be currently in them. The doors to either side of 
the dais are unlocked. 

38(a&b)* FIGHTERS' QUARTERS* 

These two rooms are identical. Each has a locked door. 

The room contains four wooden bunks, a table, and four 
chairs. Four young men wearing chain mail and carrying 
longswords will be seated at the table in each room. 

The men in these rooms are 2nd level fighters (AC 4, hp 11, #AT I, D 
T8, MV 60,' ML 10) who have been charged with the temple's 
security. They wear chain mail and carry shields and longswords. 


Their high morale is due to religious fervor. If intruded upon In either 
room, the fighters will cry an alarm that will bring all eight fighters 
and the eight clerics from rooms 39a -39d to do battle with the party. 
Each fighter will carry a small purse on his belt containing l-6gp and 
2-24 sp. 

39(a-d), CLERICS f QUARTERS. 

These four rooms all have locked doors. As with the fighters 1 rooms, 
they are identical to each other. 

The room contains two beds, a table, two chairs, an ivory 
statue of Cretia, and a smaller table with several bottles of 
cheap wine on it, as well as a pair of wine glasses* 

Each room is the residence of a pair of 3rd level clerics (for a total of 
eight: AC 4, hp 12, #AT 1, D T6. MV 60\ ML 10). Each cleric has a 
cure light wounds spell and one other 1st level clerical spell. To 
determine which other spell is useable by each cleric, the DM should 
roll a d8 and compare the result to the spell list on page XI1 of the 
D&D (r) Expert Rules. Note that some clerics might have two cure 
light wounds spells. In battle, the clerics will tend to fight with their 
heavy maces. None of the clerics has any monetary treasure. 

40* GUESTS' PINING ROOM* _ 

A long table covered with a satin tablecloth occupies the 
center of the room, and eight fine wooden chairs are placed 
around it. In one corner stands a cart with a crystal decam 
ter and glasses on it. In another corner is a low table with 5 
bottles of excellent wine and eight crystal goblets. A thick 
purple drapery hangs around the outer wall of the room* 

The tablecloth is worth 100 gp. The crystal decanter and glasses are 
worth 300 gp, but are of course very fragile. The wine bottes and 
goblets are worth 50 gp each* 

In the 10' wide space between drapery and wall await 10 beserkers 
(AC 7, HD 1+1, hp 6, MV 120\ #AT 1, D 18, AL N +2 on all "to hit" 
rolls)* They are rabid followers of Cretia, and will attack any non- 
Ethangarians entering the room and fight to the death! 

41, OFFERING STORAGE ROOM* _ 

This room contains many crates, bales, and kegs, all 
stacked neatly in the corners and along the walls. 

The door to this chamber is locked. This is the storage area that the 
clerics of Cretia use to store the offerings of the faithful. In the room 
are dozens of crates of grain, bales of wool, bundles of cloth, and 
kegs of whale oil. 

42* PRIVATE SANCTUARY* _ 

There are eight pairs of wooden benches that face an altar 
holding the grinning image of Cretia in this chamber. This 
statue is smaller than the one in the Hallowed Hall. 

The door to this room is unlocked. This is the area that the temple 
residents use for worship services* The statue of Cretia has a pair of 
2D0 gp gems as its eyes* 

43- DINING HALL. _ 

This is a room with four large tables in it* A pair of crude 
benches flanks each table, and an open doorway leads to a 
small kitchen beyond. Tin platters and colored glass mugs 
are displayed on a shelf in the dining hall 

The kitchen contains several large kettles and pots, and leads to a 
pantry stocked with loaves of bread, salted meat, lard, and some 
moldy cheese. 

44* ACOLYTES' CELLS. _ 

This room is divided into 14 separate cells. Each cell has a 
heavy wooden door with a small, slitted opening in it. The 
large chamber outside of the ceils contains only a long table 
and 14 chairs. 


18 










Neither the outer door nor the cell doors will be locked. Each cell 
contains only a pallet of straw, a torch and a cheap copper image of 
Cretia (worth 5 gp). The cells are the chambers of 141st level clerics 
(acolytesK AC 9* hp 3, D 1-4, ML 5}. They will be in their cells and 
offer only token resistance to an attack. If trapped, they will use 
torches as clubs, but each will stay within his cell instead of coming 
to the aid of his fellows. If strangers enter this area, however, the 
acolyte in cell 44a will exit through the secret door in order to warn 
Xanathon. Note that, if warned, Xanathon will still await the party in 
his chambers. 

45. EXERCISE ROOM. _ 

This is a large, open room. Four thick wooden columns 
support the ceiling, and a small closet takes up one corner. 

The room is bare, but the columns show many gashes and 
dents. 

The marks on the columns have been inflicted during the weapons 
practice that often goes on in here. The closet contains several 
wooden benches and a small well. A bucket on a rope and simple 
winch hangover this well, and sweaty fighters and clerics come here 
to douse themselves after working out. The water drawn from the 
well is seawater from the fjord, and thus undrinkable. 

46. CRYSTAL ROOM. _ 

This oddly-shaped room has a door directly opposite the 
one that was entered. Two large areas to the left and right 
are not visible because of the small room that the second 
door seems to enter. Directly to the left and right stands a 
statue of Cretia, each carved out of some opaque crystal 
line material. 

The two visible statues and their two counterparts which cannot 
immediately be seen are actually Living Crystal Statues (AC 4, HD 3, 
hp 15, MV 90', #AT 2, D 1-6/1-6, Save F3, ML 11). They have been 
commanded to attack anyone who enters the room unescorted by 
Dervill the Treacherous (the mage who is in room 46b). 

Demll's chamber is unlocked, and the wizard will hear his statues 
begin combat in 46a, He will fling open the door and enter the fray, 
casting spells at the party while his statues maneuver to prevent the 
party from reaching him. If hard pressed, Dervill will shut the door 
and cast his hold portal upon it. He will then teleport to Xana 
thon's chamber. 

Dervill the Treacherous: 9th level magic user, AC 7, hp 23, MV 120% 
D 1-4, MV 120 s , ML 9. He wears a ring of protection +2 and is 
armed with a dagger. 

Derviirs spells are: 

First Level: detect magic; hold portal; magic missile 

Second Level: detect invisibility; ESP; web 

Third Level: haste; protection from normal missiles; dispel 

magic 

Fourth Level: wizard eye; polymorph other 
Fifth Level: teleport 

Derviirs favorite offensive spell is the polymorph other, with the 
recipient becoming a toad, salamander, or other loathsome crawling 
thing. He will also cast haste upon the statues, or attempt to use his 
web and magic missile spelts against the party. In his chamber is a 
simple pallet upon which he sleeps, a table covered with scrawled 
notes which, if deciphered, prove to be lists of spell components 
(buzzard beaks, lizard gizzards, etc.), and a cluttered workbench, 
Five vials are off to one side of the bench. These contain: poison; 
and potions of gaseous form; healing; heroism; and polymorph 
self. The other materials, dishes, and jars contain nothing of value to 
the players. 

47. SUPPLY ROOM. 

This door is unlocked. 

This is a crowded room that contains many rows of crates 
and boxes. 


These boxes contain grains, flour, dried beans, salted meat, cheese, 
tools (hammers, nails, saws, prybars), lard, torches, rope, and sev 
eral small statues of Cretia. 

48. SEAROOM. _ 

This room is very fancy, with an ornately tiled floor, four 
slender stone columns, and plush draperies hanging over 
all the walls except the one by the door. In the center of the 
room is an oval pool of green seawater. The water surface 
is still. 

The door to this room is unlocked, but the residents of the temple 
know better than to enter here. Lurking just beneath the water's 
surface, in a position to observe people who enter the room, is a 
lesser sea serpent (AC 5, HD 6, hp 28, MV 150', #AT 1, D 2-12, Save 
F3, ML 8), It has been imprisoned in an undersea cave and is nearly 
starved, so it will desperately attack anyone who comes within 20' of 
the edge of the pool, it has no treasure. 

49. WET GOODS STORAGE. _ 

This room contains 20 kegs, all neatly stacked along the 
walls. 

The door to this chamber is locked. Fifteen of the kegs in here 
contain wine, imported from the Ethangar Khanate and the Emirate 
of Ylaruam. Most of these kegs are worth 75 gp, but two of them hold 
very fine wine and are worth 500 gp. The other 5 kegs contain beer, 
and have been stored here in spite of the ducal decree. They are for 
local guests whom Xanathon occasionally entertains, 

50. LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES. _ 

In this room are many shelves of musty tomes and vol 
umes, Three tables are in the room, with four chairs at 
each. 

The two doors to this room are locked. The books include many 
volumes on the history of different Khans of Ethangar, and their 
bloody conquests. Also included are books about the kingdoms of 
Vestland and Gstland, and the Jarldom of Soderfjord. If characters 
spend some time studying the books about the Ethangar Khanate 
(written, of course, in Ethangarian), they will see that the culture has 
a history of warlike rulers who embark on wholesale programs of 
conquest. 

The secret door will only be discovered if all of the books are 
removed from the shelves that hide it. It may be opened by simply 
lifting the empty shelves to flatten them against the wall. 

51. HIGH PRIESTS ENTRY CHAMBER. 

The door to this room is locked. 

In this comfortable room, two low chairs are set around a 
small table, and a small desk is against the walk The desk is 
bare, but there is a bottle of wine and two glasses on the 
table. _ 

52. XANATHON'S DINING ROOM. _ 

This is a richly furnished dining room. The table and chairs 
are of gleaming dark wood, and have been skillfully crafted. 
Several paintings hang on the walls, depicting waves of 
grass below awesome mountain peaks. An exquisitely de 
tailed tapestry hangs on the wall by the kitchen, picturing 
masses of Ethangarian riders storming through the army of 
some foe, and a crystal chandelier hangs over the table. 

The chandelier is worth 1,000 gp; the tapestry is worth 500 gp, and 
the paintings 500 gp, 300 gp, and 200 gp respectively. 

53. KITCHEN. _ 

This is a clean and welHumished cooking area. Several 
wooden counters, brick oven, and a dosed pantry will be 
visible here. 

The kitchen is used by the acolytes who prepare Xanathon's elabo 
rate meals. The china and silverware stored here is finely wrought 


19 













and very valuable (300 gp and 500 gp, respectively). In addition to me 
usual dry goods (breads, floury and grains), the pantry boasts the 
luxury of an icebox. Stored here among the slowly melting blocks of 
ice* are slabs of fresh meat, fish fillets, and four bottles of excellent 
wine. The wine is worth 75 gp per bottle. 

54. XANATHON'S CHAMBER* _ 

This room contains a large bed, a table and chairs, an open 
closet, a colorful map on one wall, and a large, glass paned 
window in the middle of the room's west wall. The drop 
from the window to the ground outside is only 5\ and here 
a narrow strip of shoreline runs along the fjord to the north 
and south 

The most striking feature in the room is the tall, gaunt, bald 
man standing in the center . He is clad in a black robe, and 
holds a gleaming black mace in his hand. He looks rather 
frail but will laugh mockingly and snarl, "Poor miserable 
fools!" as he slowly advances. 

This, of course, is Xanathon (14th level cleric, AC 9, hp 39, MV 120\ 
#AT 1, D 3-8, ML 12). 

Xanathon's spells are; 

First Level: cure light wounds; detect good (detect evil rev 
ersed); detect magic; light; resist cold; cause fear (remove fear 

reversed) 

Second Level: find traps; hold person; resist fire; snake 
charm; silence 15' radius 

Third Level; continual light; growth of animals; locate object; 
curse (remove curse reversed); striking 

Fourth Level: cure serious wounds; create water; neutralize 
poison; protect ion/e vit 10* radius; sticks to snakes 
Fifth Level: commune; dispel evil; remove quest (quest rev 
ersed); finger of death (raise dead reversed) 

As mentioned earlier, Xanathon enjoys a particularly effective kind 
of protection, thanks to Cretia. His life force has been removed from 
his body and stored In a brilliant diamond, hidden away in the Shrine 
of Cretia (see Scenario 3), As a result, he is immune to alt mind- 
influencing spells (sleep, charm, etc,) as well as all types of damage. 
Thus normal weapons, magical weapons, and damaging spells (fire 
balls, lightning bolts, etc.) will have no effect on him. The only way 
to cause him to become vulnerable is to bring the diamond contain 
ing his "essence" to within 10* of Xanathon's body. 

Of course, the players will know none of this. As they enter the 
room, they will see Xanathon standing in the center. If Dervill has 
teleported here, he will be standing behind his master, The map on 
the wall depicts the trade route over the mountains from Ethangar to 
Vestland, and next to it is a picture of a cave mouth in the side of a 
high peak. The map has a red blot on it at the crest of the pass 
separating the two countries. If it is examined carefully, the blot will 
be recognized as the face of Cretia. 

Xanathon delights in physical combat, and since he cannot be 
injured, he will dose immediately to fight with his mace +2. The only 
spell he will use is striking, which he will cast upon his mace, thus 
causing it to do 4-14 (2d6+2) points of damage at each successful hit. 
He will wade into the midst of the group, laughing like a maniac, and 
single out one victim. He will belabor that unfortunate character 
until he or she is dead, and then choose another victim. He will 
ignore any attacks upon himself, and weapons that score hits will 



DM Note: Use MAP D for this scenario. 

The players may well be puzzled regarding where to proceed from 
the Temple of Cretia. The DM should allow them to debate among 
themselves for a time, since the clues have all been furnished in 


puncture his skin, but no blood will flow and the "wounds" will dose 
as soon as the weapon is withdrawn. 

Dervill will cower at the far end of the room during this altercation. 
He will use any spells that he has left to defend himself if any 
characters come after him. Xanathon will ignore the magic-user, 
even if Dervill is being killed. 

As the characters realize that their weapons are having no effect, 
Xanathon will laugh even louder. He will pause in his attacks and 
gloat, "1 said you were fools, and now you know that 1 spoke the 
truth- You cannot wound me, for my life does not reside in this body 
you see before you! Rather... and here is a puzzle for your feeble 
brains* Jt is deep in the earth and high in the sky at the same time!" 
His laugh will ring with madness as he once more presses the attack. 

At this point, the sensible group will begin to give some thought to 
escape. The window mentioned earlier is a likely route, as it can 
easily be broken. The characters can drop safely to the shore 
outside of the temple, and Xanathon will not pursue them. 

If they choose to retreat through the temple however, the High 
Priest will pursue them mercilessly all the way to the outside doors. 
He will sneer mockingly at the party in either circumstance, but will 
not follow them outside of the temple. 

The door to room 55 is constructed from the same stone as the rest 
of the temple walls, and can be found as a normal secret door, The 
group should not find it, however, during this scenario. It is doubtful, 
of course, that the battle with Xanathon will provide a character with 
the opportunity of locating this door in any event. A description of 
room 55 is included here because the group may use it during 
Scenario 4-Duel With the High Priest. 

55, XANATHOINrS WORKSHOP, _ < 

This large room is cluttered with many strange and myste- 
rious objects. A large statue of Cretia occupies the center 
of the chamber, and this statue has a large emerald for 
each eye. A rack holding many small vials of white powder 
is set against one wall. Many scrolls of parchment are 
spread upon a table in a corner of the room, and a littered 
workbench follows one wall. 

Fifteen of the vials on the rack contain nothing but worthless chalk 
dust. Two of them, however, contain a magical powder which, when 
thrown in the eyes of a person afflicted with the Curse of Xanathon , 
will remove the curse. 

Most of the scrolls are covered with Xanathon ! s personal notes and 
are meaningless to anyone but the High Priest. Three of them, 
however, are clerical spell scrolls, and contain the following: 

Scroll L cure serious wounds x2; cure light wounds x2 
Scroll 2, cure disease; locate object 
Scroll 3, commune; raise dead 

A workbench is littered with various worthless materials. These are 
things that Xanathon has used in creating potions and new spells. 
There are no potions currently in the room, however. 

A brass-bound, locked chest is in a comer of the room. It is trapped 
with 6 spring-fired darts, some of which (roll a d6 to determine how 
many) will strike a person picking the lock for 1-4 points of damage 
apiece. Inside the chest are 380 pp, 700 gp, 1,000 ep, and a wand of 
trap detection with 8 charges left, 

SCENARIO 3: 

JOURNEY OF THE SHRINE 

Xanathon's chamber. Of course, a few reminders of exactly what 
they saw there, and exactly what Xanathon said, may help them to 
determine that they must seek out the Shrine of Cretia, at the top of 
the mountain pass between VestJand and the Ethangar Khanate. 


20 





As the group passes from the Ethangarian sector back into the rest 
of the town, they will notice the people they meet seem to be very 
tense. They may even overhear some folks worrying out bud about 
when the dwarven army will be arriving. Other concerns that might 
be expressed ¦ within hearing of the party include the Duke s s state 
of mind, and the fact that Draco is rumored to be spending all of his 
time at the Duke's side. No one is enthusiastic about the idea of 
Draco taking over the government if the Duke should die without an 
heir. The party may also overhear some rumors, either in the street 
or at a tavern or inn. One of these suggests that a massive dwarven 
army is even now camped just over the hills south of Rhoona (false). 
Another rumor is that the Duke is about to make another decree 
(true). 

Eric of Forsett will be waiting at the inn where he originally met the 
group, if they wish to seek him out. He knows of the Shrine of Cretia 
and can give a rough description of how to find it. Since it lies along 
the only route from Vestland to Ethangar, it is not difficult to follow 
the trail to the shrine. Once at the summit of the pass, about five 
days travel from Rhoona, the players will have to locate the exact 
entrance to the shrine. 

If the characters spend a full day in town after their expedition in the 
temple, they will hear the latest ducal decree. If not, they will have to 
learn of it from rumors upon their return from the shrine. In any 
event, with his usual escort the town herald will once again walk the 
streets, announcing the following: 

"Be it known to all that His Benign Munificense, Duke 

Stephen Rhoona, has declared the following to be official 

decree: 


lh£ RlfttRS Of OtlOOFIA fTIUSt BC CApABle Of QUeAE L 

mb h€GOic i>€€te in the imminent war, 

ai>C> WheeeAS. the condition of thei r steeds is of utmost \ 
impORtAnee to the success of the cavaIpv, 

it is heResy deeeeed tiut All meat items m the town - to 
wit Beeves, sheeps. atiO fishes - shAtl pe OeclAReO 
house feedt 


Any hurrun found to &e consuming sai d meAt or feeding 
otheR thAn sAid meAt to his steed. shall know the wiiAth 
of the dukei 

such is the woed of the duke of Rhoona 


THE JOURNEY TO THE SHRINE 

This trip wilt take five days of travel time. There is no chance of the 
group becoming lost if they follow the caravan trail, since many 
herds of horses and sheep have been brought along the route. The 
trail is a wide and muddy track. 

The journey will begin with the group being ferried across the fjord 
west of Rhoona. Any number of fishing boats will provide this 
service, for a cost of 2-12 gp for the entire party. Once across, the 
trail begins to climb the ridge west of the fjord. After two hours of 


climbing, the group will reach the top, and from there they will follow 
the wide, gentle ridgecrest to the west for two days. After this time, 
the caravan trail will veer from the ridge into a valley leading to the 
northwest. It follows this valley, climbing gently, for two more days. 
The fifth and final day of the journey will be spent climbing the steep 
approach to the pass. 

The first four days of travel will be through thick evergreen forests, 
where the group may walk three abreast. The final day will be spent 
on an open and rocky slope, The trail on this last day is steep and 
treacherous, with many switchbacks, where the party must move 
single file. It is important to keep these specific terrain factors in 
mind if wandering monsters are encountered. The DM should check 
for these once each day and each night by rolling a d6. A result of **6" 
indicates an encounter. Roll another d6 to determine which of these 
delightful travelling companions is encountered: 

HILLS OF VESTLAND 
WANDERING MONSTER CHART 

DIE ROLL _ WANDERING MONSTER 

1. Hill Giant: AC 4, HD 8, hp 38, MV 120% #AT 1, D 246, 

Save F8, ML 8. 

2. Trolls: (2) AC 4, HD 6+3, hp 30, MV 120\ #AT 2 

claws/1 bite, D 1-6/1-6/1-10, Save F6, ML 10 
regenerates 3 hp per round. 

3. Ogres: (3) AC 5, HD 4+1, hp 18, MV 90% #AT 1, D 

1-10, Save F4, ML 10, 850 gp in sack. 

4. Panthers: (2) AC 4" HD 4, hp 19, MV 210% #AT 2 

claws/1 bite, D 14/1-4/1-8, Save F2, ML 8. 

5. Grizzly Bear: AC 6, HD 5, hp 25, MV 120', #AT 2 claws/1 

bite, D 14/1 4/1-8, Save F2, ML 8. 

6. Rock Baboons: (8) AC 6, HD 2, hp 10, MV 120', #AT 1 club/1 

bite, D 1-6/1-3, Save F2, ML 8. 

The summit of the pass will provide the characters with a magnifi 
cent vista. The plains of the Ethangar Khanate are visible, nearly 50 
miles away, lo the north. Southward, the mighty peaks of Rockhome 
thrust into the sky, A narrow* jagged, and rocky ridge extends to the 
right and left of the pass, while the caravan track follows the valley 
down the far side. Two treacherous trails, perched on a knife edge of 
broken rock, follow the ridges to the left and right. Travelling along 
either of these trails must be done in single file. 

If the players follow the caravan track northward, they will have no 
more wandering monster encounters as they hike to the Khanate, 
which will take them three days. Hopefully, they will realize that this 
is the wrong route before then. The trails to the east and west each 
run for one hour of travel time before ending in a cave mouth, 

EAST CAVE: This is a yawning black hole in the side of a 
towering mountain. The cave is 50 s wide and 20' tall, extending into 
the rock for 150L Al ihe far end, perched atop a pile of glittering 
coins, is chimera (AC 4, HD 9, hp 48 ,M 120', #AT 2 claws/3 heads + 
breath, D L3/1-3/2-8/2-8/3-12+3-18 from fire. Save F9, ML 9). One of 
the chimera's heads will always be awake, so it cannot be surprised. 
At the sight of intruders, it will roar belligerently. If the party retreats, 
the monster will not pursue them. If the characters halt or continue 
to advance, however, it will charge. It has a 50% chance of using its 
breath weapon. 

The chimera rests upon a pile containing 2,000 gp, 5,000 sp, and four 
beautiful pieces of jewelry, worth 500 gp apiece. Also buried among 
the coins is a longsword +2, with the ability to charm person three 
times per week. The cave ends in the lair of the chimera. If the party 
has followed the trail to Ihis cave on the same day that they climbed 
the pass (i.e. immediately after reaching the summit), it will be too 
dark for them to return along the ridgetop. They must wait until the 
following morning to investigate the west trail. 


21 




22 











KEY TO THE SHRINE OF CRETIA 

The trail to the west approaches a small cave mouth in the side of a 
thin, sharp peak. As the group draws to within 300' of this cave, a 
manticore (AC 4, HD 6+1, hp 29, MV 120' (flying 180'), # AT 2 claws/1 
bite or tail spikes, D 1-4/14/2-8or 1-6per spike. Save F6, ML 9) will 
soar from a rocky ledge 100* over the cave mouth. The monster will 
make four passes over the group, 100'above them, shooting all of its 
tail spikes, It will then land between the characters and the cave 
mouth to melee. 

Once the group has disposed of the manticore, they will be able to 
approach and enter the cave* It is smaller than the east cave 120' wide 
and 10 T high, After 3Q\ it narrows further to a square corridor that is 
obviously man-made. This corridor is 10 1 wide and 10* tall. The party 
may now enter the Shrine of Cretia! 

56 ENTRY CHAMBER. _ 

This large circular room has a statue of the grotesque 
Cretia in the center. Two greenish gems glitter in the 
statue*s eyesockets. The entire floor of the room is co 
vered with a 12" thick layer of grass. 

Each of the gems in the statue's eyesockets is worth 50 gp. The grass 
on the floor of the chamber has been brought all the way from 
Ethangar to remind the visitors to the shrine of the waving plains of 
their homeland. 

57(a&b). GRAIN STORAGE, _ 

The walls of this room are lined with huge bins that take up 
most of the floor space, allowing only a small area on which 
the characters may walk. 

The door to each of these rooms is unlocked and opens outward. In 
57a, the bins are filled to the ceiling with yellow grain. In 57b, only a 
third of the bins have grain in them, and these are only half full. 

58. WINE STORAGE. _ 

In this room, several dozen small casks are stored on a 
series of racks around the walls. 

The door to this room is locked, and the key is held by one of the 
clerics in 60a* There are 4$casks in the room, and they all contain a 
common grade of Ethangarian wine, and are worth 50 gp apiece to 
anyone ambitious enough to try and transport them to civilization. 

59. STILL ROOM, _ 

This room contains several large tubs, two huge, tightly- 
lidded vats, and a cluttered workbench* A sickly sweet 
odor fills the air in here. 

The door to this room is locked, and the key is kept by the cleric 
mentioned above. It is 66% likely that anyone pausing outside the 
door of the room will notice a strong odor. This is because the room 
is the fermenting and distilling room for the shrine. The tubs hold 
squashed grapes, and are the source of the odor; while the vats 
contain liquid in more advanced stages of fermentation. 

On the bench are a number of piles of herbs and some large bottles 
of liquids, ranging from a thick, blue syrup, to a watery reddish brew, 
There are 4 small bottles behind the larger ones. The latter contain 1 
dose of healing potion apiece. 

60{a&b)* CLERICS 1 QUARTERS* _ 

These rooms are very simply furnished* Two beds, a desk, 
two chairs, and a small, worthless statue of Cretia are the 
only visible features, aside from the two humans in plate 
mail that are charging the opened door with up-raised 
maces and yelling in a bloodthirsty manner. 

Both rooms 60a and 60b are the residences of two 5th level clerics 
(AC 2, hp 20, MV 60', D 1-6, ML 10, AL C). Because one the clerics 
had a dream warning him of a battle, they are fully armed and 
armored. They wear plate mail and carry shields and maces* One of 
the clerics in 60a carries a ring of keys and a mace +1 vs. lawful 


creatures; - 1 vs. chaotic* Of course, he does 2-7 points of damage 
per hit. 

Each of the clerics has the following spells available: 

First Level: cause light wounds (cure light wounds reversed); 
cause fear (remove fear reversed) 

Second Level: blight (bless reversed); hold person 

Under the mattress of one of the beds in 60a is a clerical scroll with a 
speak with animals spell. None of the clerics has any money. 

6L PORTCULLIS TRAP* 

The secret doors from 60b and the corridor open into a tiny winch- 
room, which contains the mechanism for raising the portcullis after it 
has trapped a victim. The trap is sprung if anyone attempts to open 
the false door at the end of the corridor* The u door" will pull easily 
away from the wall, but cold stone is all that lies beyond. 

The door opens easily* The leading characters see a solid 
stone wall behind it, and the entire party hears a resound 
ing dang as a sturdy portcullis crashes to the floor behind 
them, 

The portcullis will crash down the instant that the door is moved. 
Anyone standing directly under it (in the DM's judgement) must 
save vs. Dexterity (i,e. roll his or her dexterity or less on a d2Q) or be 
struck by the falling bars for 2-12 points of damage, and become 
pinned under the apparatus* If a character succeeds in avoiding the 
trap, roll a d6. A result of 1-3 indicates that they end up inside the 
trap, while a 4-6 means that they have escaped* Of course, anyone 
between the portcullis and the false door is trapped. 

The bars may be lifted automatically with a combined strength of 44, 
but only three people may attempt this from any one side of the 
portcullis. Thus, if two people are caught in the trap and four are out 
in the corridor, both of the former but only three of the latter could 
attempt to raise it. A person trapped under the portcullis may not 
participate in the raising attempt. 

62(a-c)* FIGHTERS* QUARTERS* 

These three rooms are the residences of the small garrison of 
fighters that lives in the shrine. These fighters have been warned of 
the cleric's dream, and so are also prepared for battle. Each of their 
doors has been crudely blocked by a chair, and must be opened as if 
stuck. One round after any of the doors is smashed, the fighters 
from the other two rooms will rush to investigate. The morale of all of 
the fighters is equal to that of the highest level fighter that is still alive. 
62a. _ 

The only furnishings in this room are 6 bunks, 6 chairs, and 
a table. 

This chamber is garrisoned by 6 1st level fighters (AC 4, hp 4, MV 
60', D 1-8, ML 8). The fighters are armed with longswords, and 
protected by chain mail armor and shields. On the table in this room 
are a set of crude bone dice, 21 gp, 24 ep, and 56 sp. 

62b. _ 

This room is furnished exactly as 62a. 

In this room may be found 6 2nd level fighters (AC 4, hp 4, MV 60', D 
1-8, ML 8). The fighters are armed with longswords, and protected 
by chain mail armor and shields. On the table in this room are a set of 
crude bone dice, 21 gp, 24 ep, and 56 sp. 

62c. _ 

This room contains three beds, a table, and three comfor 
table chairs. 

The garrison of this room is three 4th level fighters (AC 2 (or 1), hp 
20, MV 60\ D 1-8, ML 11). These stalwart warriors wear plate mail 
and carry shields and longswords. One of them has a shield +1. 
They were passing the time by gambling, and have dice and coins 
spread across the table. The total is 97 gp, 105 ep, and 120 sp. 
Hidden beneath one of the mattresses is a pouch containing 5 iOOgp 
gems. 


23 










63. EMPTY ROOM, 



In reality, both the mg and the statue are illusions. They conceal a 
gaping pit that drops 30' to a prison cell in the second level. Any 
character falling into it will take 3d6 of damage (3-18 points)* Since 
the illusion has been created by the god, Cretia, no saving throw is 
allowed characters viewing it (Le. they are always fooled). The first 
touch will dispel the illusion, however, so if a character prods the rug 
with a sword or spear, the trap will be revealed for what it is, 

65. CORRIDOR OF ETERNAL RETURNS. 

The purpose of this corridor is to prevent the uninitiated (or uninvit 
ed!) from discovering the entrance to the second level. Its function is 
to cause any individual or group who enters the corridor to return 
the way they came, without knowing that their bearings have been 
reversed. 

Since this system has been rigged with a teleport spell by Cretia, no 
saving throws are allowed. As soon as a person or group comes 
around the corner at 65a, heading south, they are immediately 
teleported to the corner at 65b, heading north. They will have no 
knowledge of the teleportation; in other words, they will believe that 
they are still moving southward, approaching a right angle to the 
east. 

In order to reach the second level, a group must pass the corner at 
65a, where of course they will be teleported. After this, they must 
reverse their direction somewhere in the corridor between 65a and 
64b, They may then proceed around the corner at 65b and walk 
down the stairs. 

It is quite likely that the party will not discover this effect the first time 
through the level, and will proceed merrily out of the corridor, 
convinced that they are mapping a whole new section of the first 
level. As things start to seem familiar, the DM is advised to let the 
group try to figure out what has happened through inferences rather 
than direct statements. For example: The DM shouldn't say/This is 
the wine storage room, again." He or she should simply describe it 
and let the group draw their own conclusions. The DM should only 
give broad dues if the group is becoming frustrated or bored. 

66. HALL OF STATUES. _ 

This room is lined along two walls with a series of 10' tall 
statues of an Et hangar ian warrior. The heads of the statues 
reach the ceiling, and they do in fact serve as columns. The 
statues are plain, unadorned granite. 

67. DEN OF ZOMBIES. _ 

Twenty raised stone platforms line the walls of this room. 

10 to either side. Upon each platform lies a moldering 
corpse . 

These corpses have been placed here by Xanathon himself . He has 
used a potent spell with the aid of his chaotic god to affect them, and 
ail 20 of these will become animated if a living creature enters the 
room. (Zombies: AC 8, HD 2, hp9, MV 120\#AT l t D 1-8, Save FI. 
ML 12). They will attack and pursue the party until they have all been 
turned by a cleric or destroyed* 

68. CAVES OF THE CARRION CRAWLERS. _ 

This is a dingy network of damp stone caverns. Water 
drips and trickles down the walls, and shiny patches of 
green moss are visible in many places. 


This area is the lair of 3 carrion crawlers (AC 7. HD 3+1. hp 14. MV 
220', #AT 8 tentacles, D paralysis, Save F2. ML 9). Two of these 
loathsome creatures dwell in 68d, and one will be in 68c. They will 
sense living creatures as soon as the party draws even with rooms 
68b and 68d, and will immediately rush forward to attack. Each of 
the chambers in this area is filled with moldering skeletons, A very 
dose examination of these bones is 50% likely to reveal them as 
human and dwarf remains. There is nothing of value in any of the 
caves. 

69. LARGE CAVE* _ 

This is a large, apparently empty cave. Much moisture is 
present here, dripping down the walls and collecting in 
shallow pools on the floor. 

This area is unremarkable except for the alcove (69a), in which is a 
well. An axle, rope, and bucket are suspended above the well, and 
the water level is 20' below the floor. The water is cold, clear, and 
refreshing, 

70. MUMMY'S TOMB. 

There is a large stone door blocking access to this room. It is stuck, 
and because it is so heavy, il opens at 1, compared to a normal 
"open doors" roll. 

This cavern is very large, and has a coating of dust on the 
floor about 1" thick , At the far end is a large block of stone* 

The bloc k of stone is actually t he tomb of a mummy (AC 3, HD 5+1 1 
MV 60\ #AT 1. D M2 + disease, Save F5, ML 12). 

The mummy will sense a disturbance if the door to the cave is 
opened, and will slowly awaken. Two rounds after the door has been 
forced, it will push the cap off of its tomb and sit up. One round later, 
it will climb out of the tomb and begin to approach the intruders. 
The inside of the tomb is lined with gold and jewels. The mummy is 
resting upon a "bed" of 2,000 gp t and 50 25 gp gems are set into the 
sides of the crypt. Buried in the gold coins is a wand of fireballs, 
with 6 charges left. 

7L ALTAR OF CRETIA. _ 

This large, irregularly-shaped room has three statues in it; 
one in each of the alcoves at the southern end. The statue 
in the middle bears the hideous likeness of Cretia, while 
those to the sides are smaller, and bear horns, daws, and 
wings* _ 

The two small statues are actually gargoyles (AC 5, HD 4, hp 17, 
MV 90', #AT2claw/lbite/l horn, D L3/1-3/1-6/14, Save F8.ML 11, 
can only be hit by magical weapons). The gargoyles will wait until the 
party has advanced well into the room before breaking their stance 
ol immobility. If the party does not enter the room, however, the 
gargoyles will wait until they have passed the entrance and then 
pursue and attack. 

72, HALL OF THE STONE COLUMNS. _ 

This room is much like the room at the foot of the stairway 
descending from the shrine's first level (66). ft is lined with 
10' tall statues of warriors which serve as columns to 
support the ceiling. 

73(a&b). OGRES' DEN, 

These two rooms are the prison cells of 6 ogres that have been 
captured by the Ethangarians. Each room has a stout wooden door, 
barred on the outside. At present, I ogre will be in 73a and the other 
five are in 73b. 

A short hallway leads into a small, square room. A couple 
of shabby wooden benches are visible, along with a pallet of , 

straw on the floor* Suddenly, a bellow of rage is heard! 

The ogres (AC 5, HD 4+11, hp 19, MV 9Q\ tfAT 1, D 1-10, Save F4, 
ML 10) will attack using wooden dubs that have been broken off 
from chair and table legs. They will fight savagely if either of the 
doors is opened, for they desperately want to escape this place. 
They have no treasure here. 


24 













74. PRISON CELL, 

This room has a metal door in each wall. Each door is not only 
locked, but held with two metai bars on the outside. _ 

This large, square room has a metal door set into the 
middle of each side, A circular hole about 30* in diameter 
leads upward from the middle of the ceiling into the dark' 
ness above. The ceiling is 15* above the floor. 

The overhang around the trap (see room 64) is such that a thief will 
not be able to climb the walls and escape. In fact, unless characters 
can fly or levitate, escape is virtually impossible without outside aid. 

75. LAIR OF THE HYPNOSNAKE. 

As the party advances around a corner to the right, a 
snake dike horror slithers into the hall immediately before 
them. Its eyes seem to whirl in a hypnotic pattern and the 
characters m the front rank can feel themselves getting 
dizzy. 

This alcove off of the corridor is the lair of the hypnosnake. (For 
more details, see New Monster Section on Page 30), This giant 
reptile will slither forward as soon as it becomes aware of movement 
in the corridor. It will enter the corridor at the same time as the party 
draws even with the entrance to its alcove. 

The hypnosnake will immediately stare into the eyes of the nearest 
character, causing him or her to save vs. Paralysis or fall asleep, ff 
the party attacks, the hypnosnake will curl its tail around to slash 
while it attempts to make eye contact with another player. It will 
continue to attack with tail and gaze until killed or the party flees, 
unless the characters attempt to fight it without looking at it. In this 
case, it will use its bite and tail for combat. 

If the characters flee, leaving any of their number asleep on Lhe floor, 
the hypnosnake will immediately begin to devour one of the sleeping 
individuals. This will take six rounds, and the snake will do 1-6 points 
of damage per round of the sleeping individual that it is swallowing. 
Once swallowed, the unfortunate character will continue to take 1-6 
points of damage per round until dead, After six hours, the body will 
be digested and unrecoverable. 

The hypnosnake has a very efficient digestive system, and manages 
to consume virtually everything that it swallows. Several of its pre 
vious victims were very well-armed and carrying much wealth and 
many magic items, but because of the highly corrosive acids inside 
the snake, even the gold and jewels have been consumed. One item 
has escaped the snake's maw, however, and has rolled into the 
south end of the alcove where it lies in the shadows This is a mace 
+2, +4 vs. undead. 

76. HAUNTED CHAMBER. 

The door to this chamber is stuck. 

As the door is forced, the party is immediately assailed by a 
terrible wailing, as if a thousand souls are crying in eternal 
torment. 

Characters must save vs. Fear, or they will refuse to enter the room 
for 1-4 turns. If at least one member of the party makes a saving 
throw, however, that person will eventually be able to persuade his 
comrades to advance. If all characters fail their saves, then two 
hours must pass before they may try again. The wailing is otherwise 
quite harmless, 

SCENARIO 4 

DUEL WITH THE HIGH PRIEST 

The objective of this scenario is to obtain the antidote for the curse 
from Xanathon. Obviously, the fact that the party has captured his 
"life force" in the form of the diamond will have to be communicated 
to him, and then a meeting be tween the High Priest and the party will 


77. WIGHTS CHAMBER. _ 

As the door is opened, a hideous figure lurches out of the 
darkness. It seems to be surrounded by an aura of icy cold 
as it reaches forward with a claw-like hand. 

This horrible undead monster (AC 5, HD 3, hp 15, MV 90', #AT 1, D 
drain 1 level, Save F3, M12, silver or magical weapons needed to hit) 
will lurk behind the door to this chamber when it is alerted by the 
wailing in room 76, It will attack as soon as the door to its room is 
opened, fighting until destroyed or turned. 

78. SPECTRE S VAULT. _ 

This chamber is lit with a pulsating, eerie light that seems to 
be emanating from a giant gem. The gem is on a chain 
looped over a huge stone throne, and seated in this throne 
is a shadowy image of pure evil. It rises with with menacing 
slowness,.. 

This creature is a spectre (AC 2, HD 6, hp 27, MV 150', #AT 1 
special, D IS drain 2 levels, Save F6, ML 11, magical weapons 
needed to hit). Suddenly, it will hurl itself at the party to do battle. It 
will fight until it is destroyed. 

The spectre's vault is filled with riches, Many coins lie along the sides 
of the chamber, and several leather items and bottles are also visible. 
The treasure equals 210 pp, 1,500 gp, 13,000 sp, gems worth 500 gp, 
lOOgpfxS), 50 gp (x7),and 10 gp {x 15), a bag of holdings pair of 
elven boots, a ring of spell turning with 3 charges left, and potions 
of speed and flying. 

Draped on a thin golden chain over the throne is a huge diamond 
that seems to pulse with an evil light. If a character stares at the jewel 
for several rounds, he will begin to feel vaguely dizzy and confused. 
The effect disappears when the person no longer looks at the 
diamond, but it may prove rather frightening. However, the effect is 
harmless. Contained in this diamond is Xanathon's "essence/' !t is 
quite indestructable in its present form, but if the diamond is taken 
back to Rhoona and brought near to the High Priest of Cretia, it will 
render Xanathon as mortal as any other man! 

RETURN TO RHOONA 

The return trip to the town is simply a repeat of the five day trek to 
the shrine. Wandering monster checks can be made in the same 
fashion. If, however, the group has been sorely damaged by the 
expedition to the shrine, the DM may wish to forego any encounters 
on this leg of the journey; If some encounters are desired, the list at 
the beginning of Scenario 3 may be used. In case many of those 
monsters have been killed, several more wandering monsters are 
included here to be substituted as the DM wishes; 

ADDITIONAL HILLS OF VESTLAND 
WANDERING MONSTERS 
DIE ROLL WANDERING MONSTER 

1. Owl Bears: (2) AC 5, HD 5, hp 24, MV 120\ #AT 2 claw/1 

bite, D 18, Save F3, ML 9. 

2. Dire Wolves: (3) AC 6, HD 4+1, hp 19, MV 150/ #AT 1, D 

2-8, Save F2 t ML a 

3. Giant Weasels: (2) AC 7, HD 4+4, hp 22, MV 150/ #AT 1 + 

blood drain, D 2-8, Save F3, ML 8. 



have to take place. The group may make another foray into the 
Temple of Cretia for this meeting, or they may attempt to arrange a 
meeting with Xanathon at an outside location. 


25 






As the party returns to Rhoona, they will find the community in an 
uproar. Only the DM knows exactly how long it will be before the 
dwarven army arrives, but the population fears that it will be soon. 
The Duke has not been heard from since the decree announcing 
that horses must eat meat, and Draco has not been seen for quite 
awhile either. These two facts are common knowledge in the town, 
but obviously the characters will have to inquire of someone to learn 
of occurrences (or lack thereof) while they were gone. 

Most of the few horses in the town will be looking very weak, as a 
result of having no digestible food. It must be assumed that those 
horses that look healthy have been fed grain on the sly. The 
characters might recall seeing the orders for a mustering of a 
large militia, but they do not know that Draco has cancelled this 
directive. He is planning to step into the Duke's shoes when the 
dwarven attack becomes imminent, negotiate a peace, and thus 
become a hero. 

As usual, Eric of Forsett may be found in the tavern where the 
adventure began. He will react with obvious relief if he sees that the 
party has returned safely from the shrine. He does not know the 
specific workings of the spell that keeps Xanathon's life force stored 
in the indestructible diamond, but he has some theories that he will 
discuss with the group. 

He will suspect that Xanathon's invulnerability depends upon the 
jewel being kept far away from his person. His advice will be to use 
the jewel as a bargaining agent to get Xanathon to revoke the curse. 
He will urge that Xanathon be prevented from regaining possession 
of the jewel. Remember that Cretia and Forseitaare in direct oppo 
sition of alignment, and that Eric would like to see the Temple of 
Cretia destroyed* Eric will also caution the group that Xanathon is 
not to be trusted. 

If the party elects to meet Xanathon outside of the temple, they must 
select a location and communicate this to the High Priest. A written 
message delivered to a cleric or fighter in the temple will be certain to 
reach Xanathon. If the message is given to any other Ethangarian, a 
fee of 10-40 gp will be asked, and the message has a 50% chance of 
being delivered. Xanathon will only respond if he is convinced that 
the party has indeed captured the diamond. He may be convinced if 
a slightly detailed account of where the gem was found is included in 
the note. 



Assuming that the characters have survived the adventure thus far, 
and successfully completed their objectives in the first four scenari 
os, they have merely to find the Duke and throw the powder in his 
eyes to free him from the curse. The logical place to do this, of 
course, is the Ducal Palace. 

DM Note: It is not necessary for all the powder to be thrown in the 
Duke's eyes to remove the curse. Therefore, if the players elect to 
sprinkle the powder over the Duke (or some such similar action), the 
curse would be removed if even only a little of the antidote got into 
his eyes. 


KEY TO THE DUCAL PALACE 

DM Note: Use MAP E for this scenario. 

This huge stone structure is surrounded by an unfinished stone wall, 
20' in height* Eight squat towers, 30' high, have been completed, but 
they are unguarded. A huge pool, with a line of eight fountains down 
the center, dominates the south side of the palace, and a look at it 
will explain why the Duke ordered taxes to be paid in beer* Each 
fountain spouts a stream of the foaming brew! A wide porch is 


Assuming that Xanathon realizes that the group does indeed pos 
sess his life force, the High Priest will show up for the meeting, alone. 
He will bring two vials with him in a small sack: one vial containing 
worthless chalk dust and the other the identical white powder that is 
actually the antidote for the curse. He will first attempt to bargain 
with the dust, trying to arrange an exchange for the jewel If the 
group is shrewd enough to use a detect magic or commune spell, 
this ruse will be easily detected. Only if this first attempt fails will he 
offer the genuine antidote. 

If the diamond is dangled from its chain within 10' of the High Priest, 
it will tend to pull toward him. Whenever the gem is this close to him, 
Xanathon can be wounded. At the first successful hit upon the 
cleric, no damage will be done, but the light will blink out of the 
diamond and the stone becomes a mere 2,000 gp gem. Now Xana 
thon may be struck and damaged as any other cleric, and if melee 
begins he will fight with every spell available to him (see Scenario 2), 
as well as his mace +2. 

If the group decides to seek the High Priest out m his temple, they 
will find that a few changes have been made since they last visited it. 
Any clerics and the magic-user that might have been killed by the 
group will not have been replaced, but rooms 38a, 38b, and 39a-d 
will all have been regarrisoned with four 1st level fighters per room 
(24 total, AC 4, hp 5, MV 60\ D 1 -8, ML 9). Whichever secret door 
the party used to gain access to Xanathon's chambers will have been 
bricked and mortared shut. 

As in an outside meeting, if the group attempts to negotiate with 
Xanathon for the antidote, he will offer worthless dust first, and only 
come across with the true antidote if he sees no other way to regain 
his jewel. If it is at all possible, he will endeavor to prevent the group 
from seeing the secret door to room 55, which he will have to use to 
get the antidote. He will try to accomplish this by holding the meeting 
in the dining room. 

Because of his vulnerability when the jewel is near him, Xanathon 
will attempt to negotiate his way out of this confrontation, and will 
only fight if absolutely pressed* If he somehow escapes the party's 
wrath after the exchange has been made, he will dispatch 12 1st level 
fighters within the hour to carry the jewel back to Ethangar. As soon 
as the diamond is safely out of the city, he will attempt to find the 
group and slay them all. If this battle should take place, he will use 
spells and weapons as ruthlessly as possible. 

SCENARIO 5 

TO THE RESCUE! 


indented into the front of the palace. The whole place appears 
deserted. 

79, PORCH. _ 

This wide area is shaded by an overhang of the second 
floor, supported by ten massive columns* The doors to the 
entry room are a pair of huge, wooden slabs, carved with a 
skillfully wrought image of the Rhoonian crest: a longship, 
sail spread wide and running before a stiff breeze. 

The doors to the palace are locked, but not barred. At either side of 
the porch is a secret door leading to a guardroom. Although the 
party has seen no one on the palace grounds, the guards will have 
been watching their approach through narrow slits in the stone wall, 
and have prepared an ambush. When all of the characters are on the 
porch, or if any one character tries to open the front doors, both of 
these secret doors will fly open and the guards will leap to the attack. 

From room 82 come 61st level guards (AC 6, hp 5, D 1-8, MV 9" ML 
10) and two 3rd level sergeants-at-arms (AC 6, hp 16, D1-8, MV 90, ' 
ML 10). Three of the 1st level fighters are armed with crossbows as 
well as short swords, and move off of the porch to attempt to shoot at 
the party . From room 87 come 4 1st level guards* 2 3rd level ser- 


26 








geants, and a 5th level officer (AC 4 T hp 28, D 1-8, ML 12), Three of 
these 1st level fighters are also armed with crossbows, and will move 
down to get clear shots. The rest of the fighters will attempt to melee 
with their long and short swords. None of the fighters carries any 
treasures. 


80. DUCAL ENTRY ROOM. 


This huge room is bare, except for eight stone columns and 
dozens of tapestries portraying seafaring scenes. All of the 
walls of the room, except the front door and two side 
doorways* are covered by these hangings, and many dif 
ferent situations (battles, clear sailing, stormy weather) are 
depicted. 

The tapestries are quite valuable, but of course no lawful character 
would even consider stealing from the legally appointed Duke. 
(Although, perhaps the DM may have to gently inform them that 
they would never think of it!) 

81. BALLROOM. 

This large area has a ceiling that extends upward for 30 s , 
instead of the usual 15'. The columns here are the same 
finely crafted but simple supports that were found on the 
porch and in the entry room. A curtained alcove extends 
slightly over the floor of the ballroom from the second 
floor. 

The alcove is the area in which musicians played during the elegant 
balls that the Duke used to hold. The ballroom is currently empty. 

82. GUARDROOM. 

This simple room is bare, except for some plain wooden 
benches along the walls. A ladder leads to a trapdoor in the 
ceiling. 

Since several iron bars have been used to bolt the trapdoor from 
above, it will be virtually impossible to break open from below, The 
trapdoor is made of thick wooden planks, banded with iron, and may 
only be destroyed by a disintegrate spell. 

83. STORAGE ROOM. 

This chamber is stacked high with long wooden tables and 
expensive, straight-backed chairs. 

There are 20 tables and 200 chairs in the room. This is the furniture 
that is used in the ballroom for the Duke's formal dinner parties. 

84. KITCHEN. 

This huge cooking area contains many ovens, several large 
tables T some cupboards, a large pantry, and several c best s. 

The chests are locked, and hold 100 place settings of fine china and 
silver, as well as some ornate serving dishes. The value of these 
items totals 5,000 gp. The cupboards hold all manner of pots, pans, 
and utensils; while in the pantry are many loaves of reasonably fresh 
bread and cheese, bins of grain and butter, and an icebox containing 
fresh beef, mutton, milk, and fish. 

85. HALLWAY, 

This wide passageway has two dosed doors leading off it, 
and a wide stairway leading to the second floor, A suit of 
plate mail and a pair of crossed swords hang to either side 
of one of the doors. 

The plate mail and swords are non-magical. Both of the doors in the 
hallway are unlocked. 

86(a-h). SERVANTS' QUARTERS. 

This long hallway has seven doors on the right hand wall, 
and one to the left. At the far end it turns to the right. 


The eight rooms in this area are the quarters for the palace servants. 
Rooms a-d are occupied by 1 married couple in each room. Room e 
is the quarters of the butler and chief servant, a bachelor, while 


rooms f and g are the quarters of the unmarried male and female 
servants, respectively. Room h is the dining area for all of the 
servants, and has a tiny cooking area attached. 

As they will be certain to notice combat on the front porch, all of the 
servants will have taken refuge in room 86h if such a fight has 
occurred. Four of the young men have armed themselves with 
kitchen knives and pitchforks, but will only fight if it appears that the 
intruders are planning to slaughter the servants. (There are 16 of 
them in the room.) The young men will fight at 0 level, (AC 9, hp 4, 
D 14). Their morale level will be 12 if they are fighting for their lives. 

[f the servants are approached in a friendly manner, they will be 
willing to answer a few questions. As a group, they are very loyal to 
the Duke, but none of them will have seen their leader in over a 
month. Since they universally hate Draco Stormsailer, and they 
suspect him of treachery, they will not hesitate to inform on him. 

They know that Draco and at least one of his henchmen is upstairs 
with the Duke. All food and drink that is sent to the Duke has been 
given to Draco, who presumably passes it on to him. None of the 
servants can confirm that Stephen Rhoona is alive, however. They 
do hear some strange noises coming from his quarters at odd times, 
but these noises are more like animal sounds than human. 

The servants bedrooms are simply furnished, containing only beds, 
plain wooden chairs, and unlocked chests with a few ragged gar 
ments in them. Rooms a-e have one bed, room f has two, and room 
g has four. 

87. GUARDROOM. __ 

This room is much like the other guardroom (room 82), 
containing only some simple wooden benches and the 
door to the corridor. _ 

The secret trapdoor to the porch may be opened by pushing out 
ward on it. It is a one-way door, however, and cannot be used to gain 
access to the palace from the outside, 

88. SITTING ROOM. _ 

This room is decorated with several tapestries showing 
rustic farm and hill scenes. Four stone columns support 
the ceiling, and eight soft chairs and a couch are set in the 
corners of the room. Three low tables are also in here, one 
next to each of the sitting areas. A thick carpet covers the 
floor. 

The door leading into the museum (room 89) is locked, as is the door 
to the training room (90). 

89. DUCAL MUSEUM, 

!n this elegant chamber, three neat rows of slender co* 
lumns dominate the center of the room. Along the walls are 
a series of glass-topped trophy cases, displaying treasures 
and unique items horn around the world. 

The glass cases are divided into 12 separate areas. Each of these is 
trapped with poison gas that will be released if the glass is broken or 
the lock picked without a proper key. 

If a thief rolls successfully to "find traps," he will learn that the trap 
exists, but will still be unable to remove it, since it is inside the case. If 
the poison gas is released, all characters within 10' of the case must 
save vs. Poison or die. Characters between 10* and 20' away must 
also save, but will get a bonus of 4 added to their saving throws. The 
gas will diffuse in 2*12 rounds. 

The cases contain a number a different items, all of excellent quality. 
Candlesticks of gold and platinum , rugs, goblets, tapestries, jeweled 
daggers, unusual farming and seafaring tools, weird bottles, and rare 
coins are all attractively arrayed in the displays. The total worth of 
the objects is 30,000 gp, but, of course, lawful characters will not 
disturb the treasures. If a neutral thief should happen to lag behind, 
breaking the cases when the rest of the party has left* the poison gas 
might make him regret his greed,... 


27 











90- TRAINING ROOM. _ 

Within this room is a collection of whips* straps, and 
chains; all neatly stacked on two wall racks- 

The Duke used these tools in his hobby of displacer beast training, 
but there is no clue in the room to suggest that they are not torture 
devices to be used on prisoners. The secret door will be discovered 
on the usual roll. Neither the regular door nor the secret one into 
room 91 is locked. 

91. DISPLACER BEASTS' CAGE. _ 

This room is divided by a series of iron bars into a small and 
a large area. In the large area are two giant panther-like 
creatures that advance, snarling, as soon as the door is 
opened. A pair of long tentacles grows from the shoulders 
of each of these creatures. 

The obvious door represents the Duke's idea of a practical joke, 
since anyone who passes through It will find himself in the cage with 
the 2 displacer beasts (AC 4, HD 6, MV 150\ AT 2 tentacles, 
D 2-8/2-8, Save F6, ML8 t attacking creatures must subtract 2 from 
all (t to hit" rolls). 

The monsters are hungry and angry, so they will attack any creature 
that they can reach. If characters go through the secret door and 
stay close to the wall, the displacer beasts will not be able to reach 
them. The door to the cage is held with a simple latch that anyone 
who wishes to may open (no roll necessary). 

92. UPPER HALLWAY. _ 

This wide hallway gives access to most of the second floor. 

Four slender columns stand at the comers of the opening 
of the stairway from the first level. 

93. DUCAL LIBRARY. _ 

Several tables and chairs are placed about this room, and 
the walls are lined with bookshelves. A soft carpet is on the 
floor, and the atmosphere is one of plush luxury mixed with 
homey comfort. 

This library contains more books than could be found throughout 
the rest of Rhoona. The Duke's family has collected the precious 
volumes from all over the world, although - unlike Draco Stormsailer 
¦ the Dukes of Rhoona usually paid in coin or goods for the items that 
they brought back from their expeditions. 

The Duke used to enjoy reading and would often spend hours here. 
The books on the shelves include histories and geographies of the 
lands throughout the southeastern portion of the continent, manu 
als describing the techniques of all of the crafts practiced in Rhoona 
of the line of Rhoona and the kingdom of Vestland, studies of all of 
the different races, and many other volumes that at one time or 
another caught the fancy of the Duke of Rhoona. 

94. PRACTICE ROOM. _ 

This is a large, nearly empty room. Four unadorned stone 
columns support the ceiling, and these show signs of chip' 
ping and hacking. 

The room was used by the Duke and his officers for weapons and 
hand-to-hand combat practice. It has not been used for several 
months, and a thin coat of dust is on the floor. 

95. DUCAL WEAPONS ROOM. _ 

A rack at one end of this room holds six rather battered 
swords, two hand axes, and four dented shields. At the 
opposite end of the room is a locked, glass-topped case 
similar to those in the museum. 

The rack holds the weapons that were used for practice by the Duke 
and his guests. The display case is trapped with enough poison gas 
to fill the entire room. If the trap is sprung, all characters present 
must make a save vs. Poison or die. Even if a thief picks the lock, the 


gas will be released, since only the proper key will open the case 
safely. The key is currently stuffed into the mattress of the Duke's 
bed. The gas will linger in the room for 242 rounds. 

In this display case are the ancestral weapons and armor of the Duke 
of Rhoona. A glistening silver suit of plate mail +2, and a shield +2, 
which bears the Rhoonian crest are stretchedaeross a thick cushion 
of blue velvet. Laid across this potent protection is the ducal long- 
sword +3. This magnificent weapon is known as "Justifier," and has 
the special purpose of defeating chaos. A successful hit with the 
sword upon a chaotic opponent will paralyze that opponent unless 
the victim saves vs. Spells. Furthermore, in the hands of a creature 
of chaotic alignment, the sword functions as a cursed sword -3! 

Although the DM will no doubt have reminded the players that lawful 
characters would never steal from their leader, the temptation of 
some of these powerful items may prove irresistible for some play 
ers. The DM should immediately change the alignment of any 
lawful characters who steal from the Duke to chaotic. 

96. LADIES 1 WITHDRAWING ROOM. _ 

In this small sitting room, several pleasantly soft chairsand 
some small tables are placed tastefully about the room. 

Two tapestries, both depicting peaceful woodland scenes, 
decorate the walls. An elegant crystal chandelier hangs in 
the center of the room. 

This is the room where the Duke's lady entertained female guests 
while the Duke attended to matters of state or war, A thin layer of 
dust will be visible if the room is scrutinized, since it hasn't been used 
for a few months. 


97. DRESSING ROOM. 



This was formerly the bedroom of Lady Merete Hollowan, the 
Duke's consort. The lady met a rather unpleasant fate at the hands 
of Draco Stormsailer after the curse was placed upon the Duke. She 
is now residing at the bottom of the fjord. If the quilt on the floor is 
examined carefully, bloodstains will be visible on the bottom. 

The secret door leading to Draco's room can be discovered with the 
usual roll. A hidden catch at the edge of the door needs to be pushed 
in order to release it. If released, the door swings silently open to 
allow access to the ducal chamber. 

100. MINSTRELS' QUARTERS. _ 

Tliis chamber contains only four beds, four straight chairs, 
and six music stands. 

This room used to be the practice and sleeping area for the four 
musicians that the Duke kept in the palace. As with Lady Merete, 
their presence was no longer desired after the Duke became cursed. 
They may also be found at the bottom of the fjord. All of the 
minstrels' belongings have been removed, although a smashed lute 
lies under one of the beds. 


28 













101. MINSTRELS 1 GALLERY. _ 

This curtained room projects slightly over the ballroom 
below. Four straight-backed chairs and four music stands 
are the only things to be seen in here now. 

102. PRIVATE DINING ROOM, _ 

Three gorgeous crystal chandeliers hang from the ceiling in 
this room. A beautiful, dark wood table, polished to a 
mirror like sheen, occupies the center of the room, and 
twelve chairs are placed around it. Four stone columns, 
one near each comer, support the ceiling. 

The Duke used this room to entertain small groups of intimate 
friends at informal dinner parties. The door to room 103 is locked. 

103. DUCAL SITTING ROOM. _ 

This comfortably furnished room is the height of royal 
luxury. A dozen soft chairs are placed around the room, 
and a small gaming table with four chairs is in the middle. A 
plush carpet covers the floor, and three chandeliers hang 
from the ceiling. An ornate tapestry hangs across one wall 
of the room, depicting an earlier Duke of Rhoona's victory 
over a tribe of hill giants many years ago. The bards still 
sing of that Duke's victory. 

Behind the tapestry is a secret door leading to the ducal treasure 
room. If the tapestry is moved, the door must still be discovered with 
the usual rolls to detect a secret door. If the tapestry is not moved, 
there is no chance of finding the door. The door may be opened by 
rotating the middle chandelier clockwise through three full revolu 
tions, The door is a solid stone slab, engineered by the most skilled 
dwarven stonemasons available, so it cannot be smashed open. 

104. DUCAL TREASURY. _ 

This secret room contains five large chests, each secured 
with a sturdy lock. 

The contents of the chests are the proceeds of the taxes and plunder 
that the Dukes of Rhoona have acquired throughout the past cem 
tury + Fortunately, Draco does not know of its existence, or little of 
value would still remain here. As it now stands, however, the trea 
sure chests will again prove a temptation to a lawful character's 
alignment. 

All of the chests are locked, but none are trapped, since the Duke 
considered the treasure room virtually invulnerable. The contents of 
the chests have been neatly organized, one type of treasure per 
chest, as follows: 

Chest 1 - 9,080 gp 
Chest 2 - 12,330 sp 
Chest 3 - 4,610 pp 
Chest 4 ¦ 11,850 ep 

Chest 5 - 1000 gems, total worth 40,000 gp 

105. DUCAL DRESSING ROOM. 

As the group approaches the door, it is bashed open from 
the other side. Before any of the characters can react a 
huge, bull-like figure of a man charges into the room, 
bellowing a battle cry. His black beard is parted by a 
wicked slash of a mouth, and an evil gleam is in his eyes. As 
he charges the party with upraised sword, a scarlet "D" 
can be seen emblazoned on his chain mail! 

Draco and his two henchmen have been planning an ambush ever 
since the guards informed them that the party was approaching the 
palace. The attack on the porch was simply a delaying action. 

These are the statistics for Draco and his henchmen: 

Draco: 14th level fighter, AC 2, hp 75, MV 60', D 4-11 (ld8+3), ML 
12, chain mail, shield +2, and longsword +1, strength bonus of 2. 


Captain: 9th level fighter, AC 0, hp 50, MV 60\ D 340 (ld8+2), ML 
12, plate mail +2, shield, and longsword, strength bonus of 2 + 

Lieutenant: 6th level fighter, AC 2, hp30, MV 60\ D 2 9 (ld8+l), ML 
12, plate mail, shield, and longsword +i. 

Draco has drilled a small hole in the door to the dressing room, and 
will be spying on the group through it. When he sees someone 
approach the door, he will fling it outward and attack. A roll of 1 or 2 
on a d6 indicates that the party is surprised and Draco automatically 
gets the first attack. If there is no surprise, initiative is rolled for 
normally. Draco will carry himself forward with the momentum of his 
charge, allowing his two companions to enter room 103 right behind 
him. The two will take up defensive positions on their leader's flank. 

All three of them realize ihat they must win this battle or their plot 
will be destroyed. They will fight to the death. 

The dressing room is a plainly finished room with a pair of closets 
and a small chair in it. The closets are filled with various ducal robes 
and garments, and the chair was used by His Excellency, the Duke, 
when his servants were tying his shoes. The secret door to room 106 
has been left slightly ajar, and may be noticed on a +1 chance. 

106. PALACE BARRACKS. 

This room has a dozen simple wooden bunks and several 
benches in it. A leather cloak and a pair of boots lie on the 
floor, but nothing of any real value is in here. 

This room was the sleeping chamber for the guards that were 
assigned permanent duty in the palace. 

107. DUCAL BOUDOIR. 

This large room is messy and dirty. The door to the bathing 
room stands open, but the tub looks as if it has not been 
used for some time. A bare writing table is against the wall 
and an overturned chair is next to it. The bed is against the 
south wall. A bedraggled figure is visible on the huge bed. 

He is not confined in any way, but will pull the blankets up 
around his chin and watch the group's approach with wide, 
staring eyes. As the characters near the bed, he will begin 
to growl and bark like a dog. 

The man is Stephen, Duke of Rhoona, His formerly robust appear 
ance is gone, and he is now thin and pale. His hair shoots away from 
his head in all directions, and his eyes are bloodshot, A trickle of 
drool runs into his tangled beard. The Duke will cower in bed, 
making no move to flee or defend himself as the characters ap 
proach. The antidote for the cure will work as soon as it Is thrown in 
his eyes, but any other use of the powder will have no effect. When 
the Duke is cured, he will have full memories of all of his actions while 
he was cursed. His bearing will grow proud again, and he will ask for 
a few minutes to clean up before talking to the party. 

If the characters leave the room, the Duke will take 3 turns to wash, 
brush his hair and beard, and dress according to his rank. When he 
emerges, no sign of his unpleasant ordeal will be visible. He will ask 
for details of the party's adventure, and after learning of the events 
that have transpired, will offer each loyal character a 2,000 gp reward 
as "an inadequate token" of his gratitude. 

Depending on how many days have passed since the expulsion of 
the dwarves, he will quickly prepare to ride to Rock home and 
attempt to turn back the approaching army with an honest apology 
and explanation, sweetened with an offer of gold to make amends for 
the inconveniences suffered by the dwarves. Since the dwarves are 
not exceptionally interested in the destruction and plunder of their 
former ally, they will grudgingly accept the Duke's offer. 

Draco's head will be placed on display before the Ducal Barracks, 
and the story of the curse and the party of adventurers who saved 
the day will be spread rapidly throughout the town. When the Duke 
returns from pacifying the dwarves, he will throw an elaborate 
banquet for the characters. 


29 







After the banquet, life will begin to return to normal in Rhoona. 
Within a week, the breweries will have produced enough beer for it 
to become available in the taverns again. The price will be doubled 
for two or three weeks, however, until supplies can be built up. ft will 
be understandable if the characters wish to spend some time cele 


brating, and indeed, they will be accorded the status of heroes for a 
time. 

Adventurers being what they are, however, the life of social gather 
ings and parties will soon become tedious. Once more, the breeze 
will whisper of far-off, exotic lands...of evil that must be defeated 
...and treasure that cries to be found.... 


FURTHER ADVENTURING IN RHOONA 


If the group decides to stay in Rhoona, a number of things can occur 
in the town or nearby countryside that will provide activity and 
challenges for the adventurers. The map of the town may be used 
further, but of course, places (shops and taverns) that have been 
marked should remain in their original locations. In this way, if the 
characters desire, they can get to know the town very well. 

These suggestions for other adventures will obviously require some 
DM preparation. Each of these scenarios could be expanded to fill 
an entire evening of playing time, or could be used as short, one or 
two encounter adventures that would be playable in an hour. 


A. THE BAND OF MASTER THIEVES: This is a group of 
five or six high level thieves who operate out of a shack in the Old 
Town. They will attempt to steal anything that they can get their 
hands on. If they hear rumors of the rich rewards given to the 
characters who saved the Duke from the evil curse, their curiosity 
will be aroused. 

They will locate the group, and probably attempt to create some 
kind of diversion while several of the thieves rob the party of every 
thing they can carry away. Most of the residents of the Old Town 
fear this group, so information regarding its lair and hangouts will be 
difficult (expensive) to come by. It is rumored that a network of 
tunnels and rooms extends through the ground underneath the 
thieves* shack. 

B. THE SLAVERS 1 WAREHOUSE: The disappearance of a 
number of children and young adults from Rhoona will cause worry 
and dismay among the populace. The party must figure out that they 


are being kidnapped by a band of slavers. The youths are smuggled 
aboard ships in the middle of the night and taken to the barbaric 
reaches of the far corners of the world. 

The slavers 1 headquarters is a warehouse on the waterfront. Mun 
dane items such as lumber and tools are stored here, but a secret 
room serves as a prison until the next slave ship sails. A sturdy band 
of high level fighters, with magic user, thief, and clerics to support 
them, is behind this wicked scheme. 

C RAIDING RED DRAGON: An old and evil fire-breathing 
dragon finds a comfortable cave in which to lair. The problem: The 
cave overlooks the fjord between Rhoona and Norrvik, and the 
dragon enjoys plundering cargoes and burning boats. If the charac- 
ters are especially courageous, they may wish to plan an expedition 
against this fierce lizard, motivated by the pile of treasure that it is 
bound to have accumulated. 

The expedition could include a wilderness adventure as the group 
battles various wandering monsters on the way to the dragon's lair. If 
any characters are fortunate enough to survive this jaunt, it may be 
assumed that they will return wealthier than before! 

Numerous situations could be created with Rhoona as a base of 
operations: hill giant, ogre, or troll bands that could begin to harass 
the outlying farms; plots in the town against the legal authority of the 
Duke, etc. !f the DM wishes to allow it, the characters may even 
purchase a boat or ship in Rhoona and launch some exploring 
expeditions of their own. 

As with any other D&D (r) game situation, the only boundaries are 
the limits of your imagination! 




NEW MONSTER 


Armor Class: 4 HYPNOSNAKE 

Hit Dice: 8* 

Move: 90' {30') 

Attacks: 1 bite or 1 gaze; 1 tail 
Damage: 1-8 or sleep; 1-10 

No. Appearing: 1 
Save As: Magic user 5 
Morale: 9 
Treasure Type: D 
Alignment: Chaotic 

The hypnosnake is a semi-intelligent reptile that attempts to hypno 
tize its prey before devouring it. This hideous serpent is a red and 
green striped reptile that may grow up to 20 feet in length. Its eyes 
are a whirling blend of all the colors of the rainbow. 


To hypnotize its prey, the hyposnake stares into the eyes of a 
potential victim while swaying in a rhythmical fashion. The victim 
must save vs. Paralysis, or instantly fall asleep. The next round, the 
hypnosnake may seek out another victim and attempt to hypnotize 
again. 

A character who is surprised by the hypnosnake automatically 
meets its gaze. Characters who are in hand-to-hand combat with it 
will meet its gaze unless they state that they are looking away. In the 
latter case, the character attacks at -4 and the hypnosnake at 2 on all 
"to hit" rolls. If the hypnosnake watches itself in a mirror for a full 
round, it must make a save vs. Paralysis or fall asleep. 

The hypnosnake can also lash out with its barbed tail for 1-10 points 
of damage, or bite for 1-8, Note that, if it chooses to bite, it cannot 
attempt to hypnotize that same round. 


CREDITS 

DESIGN: DOUGLAS NILES 

DEVELOPMENT: DOUGLAS NILES AND ALLEN HAMMACK 
EDITING: DEBORAH CAMPBELL RITCHIE 


30 







PREGENERATED CHARACTER LIST 

All pregenerated characters are of Lawful Alignment, except for the thief (Quillan), who is neutral. 


NAME _ CLASS/LEVEL HITFTS. STR INT. WIS. DEX, CON. CHA. 


Ariel 


cteric/7 23 13 

9 14 

8 

10 

11 

Clyde]] 


dwarf/6 40 16 

7 9 

10 

14 

3 

Annelise 

elf/5 18 13 

12 8 

14 

9 

11 

Kimbra 


magic-user/6 13 7 

15 11 

12 

9 

10 

Barthel 


halfling/5 22 11 

9 8 

16 

11 

12 

Lamar 


fighter/6 30 14 

10 9 

11 

9 

12 

Quillan 


thief/5 12 10 

11 8 

15 

10 

10 

Raynor 


fighter/6 28 15 

7 13 

10 

13 

3 



CHARACTERS BONUSES AND PENALTIES 




NAME 


STRENGTH 

SAVING THROW 

MISSILE FIRE 


Ariel 


+1 

+ 1 


-1 


Clydeli 


+2 

0 


0 


Annelise 


+1 

0 


+ 1 


Kimbra 


-1 

0 


0 


Barthel 


0 

0 


+2 


Lamar 


+1 

0 


0 


Quillan 


0 

0 


+1 


Raynor 


+1 

+1 


0 




CHARACTER SPELLS 




Ariel: 

First Level: 

cure light wounds; detect magic 






Second Level: 

find trap; silence 15' radius 






Third Level: 

striking 






Fourth Level: 

cure serious wounds 





Annelise: 







First Level: 

sleep; magic missile 






Second Level: 

invisibility; knock 






Third Level: 

haste 





Kimbra: 

First Level: 

detect magic; charm person 






Second Level: 

web; ESP 






Third Level: 

fireball; fly 







QUILLAN'S THIEF ABILITIES 





OPEN 

REMOVE PICK MOVE 

CLIMB 

HIDE IN 

HEAR 



LOCKS 

TRAPS POCKETS SILENTLY 

WALLS SHADOWS 

NOISE 



35% 30% 40% 40% 91% 30% 1-3 

Because these are mid-level characters, it is assumed that they have collected a few possessions and 
treasures from previous adventuring. If the 
pre-generated characters are used, the DM may allow each character to roll a d6, Mutiply this figure 
times 100 to get the amount of gold pieces 
carried by that character. 

In addition, the group possesses the following items. The players should roll percentile dice to 
determine the choice of the items. The player with 
the highest roll gets the first choice, and so on, until all of the items have been distributed. 

PREGENERATED CHARACTER POSSESSIONS 

Longs word +1 
Longs word +1 
Shortsword +1 
Shield +2 
Shield +1 
Shield +1 
Plate Mail +1 
Plate Mail +1 
Leather Armor +1 
Ring of Protection +2 

Wand of Magic Detection (2-40 charges, rolled on 2d2G by the DM, privately) 


31 











































































































































































































































































































































1 square 


* I9S2 TSR Hobbies, lot All Rights Reserved. 






q 




iR 

\ 


or* 

UH 












































































































































































































































Expert Set Adventure Module 


Curse of Xanathon 

by Douglas Miles 


Something is rotten in Rhoona,.. 

When the grotesque god, Cretia, casts his ugly shad 
ow over the town, strange things start happening. 
First, Duke Stephen vanishes. Then bizarre procla 
mations begin coming out of the Ducal Palace- 
dwarves are outlawed... taxes must be paid in beer- 
horses must be ridden backwards. Soon the entire 
town is in an uproar and a dwarven army is marching 
on Rhoona. This is the situation when you and your 
party of valiant adventurers arrive in the suffering 
town. 

There you find. -. 

*A ragged beggar who prowls the streets offering 
cryptic advice. 

*A mysterious black-garbed cleric planning trea 
chery. 

*A trusted soldier plotting his master's overthrow. 

*A sinister jewel casting its evil emanations over the 
town. 

You and your party are Rhoona's only hope. Only 
YOU can unravel the dark mystery that plagues the 
town and save Rhoona from... the Curse of Xanathon. 


This module is lor use with the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS- 
Expert Set, which continues and expands the D&D# Basic 
rules. This module cannot be played without the D&D # Basic 
and Expert rules produced by T3R Hobbies, Inc, 


s 1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc All Righis Reserved Printed in U S A 


TSR HobbteSh, Inc 

TSR Hobbitf* (UK) Ltd 


t hr Mill, H.mhnutrr Htuirl 

Lakt fc a. 

L'ambiidgv CBMAl> 

Wi 5JN? 

L niied Kinqdom 


ISBN 0-935696-56*3 
394-53069-1TSR0550 










