Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 02631 Dead Gods"
See other formats
2631 


fd 


in 

m 












4 Dead G^ds ? 


Being a pairing of Adventures in which the Heroes must 
face the might and minions of Powers both dead and 
Undead, for the sake ofSigil, their own small 
Lives, and the very Multiverse itself. 


CRCDI + S 

Designer: Monte Cook ? Editors: Ray Vallese, Michele Carter 
Cover Artist: rk post ? Interior Artists: rk post, Adam Rex, Josh Timbrook 
Cartographers: Dennis Kauth, Rob Lazzaretti 
Project Managers: Karen Boomgarden, Steve Winter 
Graphics Coordinators: Dawn Murin, Paul Hanchette ? Graphic Design: Dawn Murin, Matt Adelsperger 
Electronic Prepress Coordinator: Dave Conant ? Typography: Angelika Lokotz 
Playtesters: Carrie Bebris, Michele Carter, Bruce Cordell, 

Ted Stark, Keith Strohm, Ray Vallese 


U.S., CANADA, ASIA, 
PACIFIC, ft LATIN AMERICA 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 

P.0. Box 707 
Renton, WA 98057-0707 
+1-206-624-0933 



EUROPEAN HEADQUARTERS 
Wizards of the Coast, Belgium 
P.B. 34 

2300 Turnhout 
Belgium 

+32-14-44-30-44 





Visit our website at http://www.tsrinc.com 
2631XXX1501 


Advanced Dungeons ft Dragons. ADftD, Monstrous Compendium. Planlscape. the Lady of Pain logo, and 
the TSR logo arc registered trademarks owned by 
TSR. Inc. Monstrous Manual and DM arc trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. All TSR characters, character 
names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are 
trademarks owned by TSR. Inc. c 1997 TSR. Inc. All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A. TSR. Inc. is a 
subsidiary of Wizards of the Coast. Inc. Distributed 
to the book trade in the United States by Random House. Inc. and in Canada by Random House of 
Canada Ltd. Distributed to the hobby, toy. and comic 
trade in the United States and Canada by regional distributors. Distributed worldwide by Wizards of the 
Coast. Inc. and regional distributors.. This material 
is protected under the copyright laws or the United States of America. Any reproduction or other 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained 
herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 




ft 









A 




TABLE (c)f C0N + EN + S 

Foreword.......,....,,... 

In which the Dungeon Master learns of the two Adventures in this, volume, the means by which 
they might be made One, the nature of the Statistics and Poster map, and other Products both 
required and optional. 

>U+ (c)F +HC DARKNESS 

Introduction ...,. ........... 

In which the Dungeon Master gains the full Background of the story\ a summary of the 
Adventure, and valuable notes on preparing for Play. 


Chapter I: Circean Embers... 

In which the Heroes learn of reptilian Thieves that steal more than mere Wealth, and chase 
them across the Outlands and to the leafy branches of Yggdrasil itself to recover their strange 
Plunder. 


Chapter II: Crux..... 

In which the Heroes visit a Tree-town troubled by barmy ratatosk, discover a dark Corruption of 
the World Ash, and see with their own eyes the Violent effects of Evil's taint. 

Intfrujdf. I........ .... .. 

In which the Dungeon Master learns how a great Villain was raised from Astral slumber, how 
he restored his Fiendish servants to unlife, and how he divined a bloody Course for finding that 
which he had Lost. 

Chapter III: Masks.. 

In which the Heroes find the citizens of Crux not what they used to be, follow a Fiend to Baator 
to discover what it seeks there, and learn that the Faces of friends might be nothing but Masks. 

Chapter IV: Message From Thanatos.. ....... 

In which the Heroes return to the Tree-town by way of a dead and ruined World, find that 
Yggdrasil is not yet cleansed of Evil's stain, and learn the Chant by spying on a secret gathering 
of Fiends. 


Chapter V: The Bottom of the Mui jtverse..... 

In which the Heroes journey to the Cold Land, explore a peculiar and hidden Fortress of things 
undead, and stumble across a dark Prisoner with much to share - if only he could Remember. 

Interlude II.......... 

In which the Dungeon Master learns how the Villain himself came to Baator to seize that which 
his Servants had sought, and of what he did when challenged by the greatest Proxy of Set. 


Chapter VI: The Vault of the Dkow....... 

In which the Heroes see cargo safely from the Abyss to Oerth,find the Vault of the dark elves tom 
apart by civil War, and try to gain the confidence of a Drow who alone knows a terrible Truth. 

Chapter VII: The Ruins of Pelion ..... 

In which the Heroes seek passage to the dusty deserts of Arborea, relive a harrowing Adventure 
from the plane's distant past, and learn the nature of powerful Magic stolen long ago by the 
Villain. 
















VY* 


INTERLUDE III.. 102 

In which the Dungeon Master learns how the Villain finally found the object of his long Quest. 


Chapter VIII: Deepest Pandemonium. .. 104 

In which the Heroes seek refuge from Madness with a traveling circus Journey deep within the 
caverns of the Howling Plane, and unearth a long-buried Artifact of frightening power. 

Chapter IX: Thf. Dead-Book of thi Gods.. 1,6 

In which the Heroes travel to the Silver Void, receive a Warning that all is not yet right, explore 
the rocky Corpse of the Villain they have long opposed, and learn, once again, that Things are 
seldom what they Seem. 


IN + (c) +HC L1GH + 

Introduction. 

In which the Dungeon Master gains the full Background of the story, a short summary / of the 
Adventure, and valuable notes on preparing for Play. 


126 


Pari One: Initial Forays.. 

In which the Heroes look into the Strange matter of an old church, seek Aid at a place known 
as the Ubiquitous Wayfarer, and discover that certain Forces would kill to ensure that their 
Secrets remain dark. 


130 


Part Two: Crossed Swords... 

In which the Heroes incite a panic with false Chant, witness the seizing of the Ubiquitous 
Wayfarer, and find themselves cast in the role of Peacekeepers on the eve of faction War. 


Part Three: Mysteries or the Stones. 

^ In which the Heroes confront the secret Villain of the story, journey through the fading 
Remembrances of a god, and restore a fragile Peace to Sigil - the only kind it can ever truly 
know. 


appendix 

. . . ;••••; . 1 r,H 

In which the Dungeon Master gains the details of a brand-new Monster, an undead Fiend with 

the power to warp a victim's Perception of reality>, causing him to experience That which is not. 

Statistics.*...* • ..- *- 160 

In which the Dungeon Master finds the Jull gaming Statistics for each of the principal 
Characters, Foes, and Monsters encountered in the two adventures in this Volume. 

Player illustrations .-.. • ... If> 9 

In which the Dungeon Master is presented with a dozen and three full-color Depictions of 
scenes from "Out of the Darkness," which are meant to be shown to the Players at the 
appropriate times, the better to make them Understand the terrors and dangers faced by their 
stalwart Characters. 















First things first, berk: Anyone who plans on playing in the adventures in Dead Gods should stop 
reading now. This book is meant for the Dungeon Master's eyes only. Page-flipping players'll 
only spoil their own fun. 

Now then: Dead Gods contains two separate adventures. The first 
one's called "Out of the Darkness," and it takes up the major portion of 
this book (pages 5 through 124). The adventure consists of an introduc 
tion, nine chapters, and three interludes. It's the kind of epic quest that 
true heroes dream of - though they'll have to step carefully to prevent 
that dream from turning into a nightmare. 

The second adventure in Dead Gods is called "Into the Light." Though it's shorter than the 
first ride - occupying pages 125 through 156 - it's still a full-length scenario, showing just what 
can happen in Sigil when stubborn politics collides with arcane faith. "Into the Light" consists of 

an introduction and three parts. 

A sharp blood'll notice that the story sections of 
"Out of the Darkness" are called chapters , 
IT and the story sections of "Into the 

Light" are called 
parts. That's so 
no addle-cove 
gets 'em mixed 
up. Having two dif 
ferent chunks of the 
book both titled "Chapter I" 

would be a bit confusing. With chapters and pans, the DM always knows which section 
fits with which ride. * 

That's important, because although the two adventures stand on their own, they can also be 
linked together. "Out of the Darkness" and "Into the Light" feature different characters, locations, 
and storylines, but they both revolve around the same basic theme: the death and resurrection of 
gods. By weaving the two plots together, the DM gives the players a periodic change of pace and 
tone and allows each adventure to echo the primary theme of Dead Gods. Sure, it's more work, 
but it's also a more rewarding experience, both for the DM and the players. 

The flowchart on the inside back cover of the book offers a recommended method for link 
ing the chapters and parts of the two adventures, but that's just one possible solution. The DM's 
free to read through both scenarios and decide for himself how best to make the pieces form one 
puzzle. The Introduction to each ride gives further tips on fitting them together. 

Following the two adventures is an Appendix (pages 157 through 176) that includes the 
write-up for a brand-new monster, the statistics for all major characters and creatures in both of 
the rides, and 15 full-color illustrations that depict various scenes from "Out of the Darkness" 
(see that scenario's Introduction for details on using the pictures). The Appendix doesn't contain 
statistics for every berk and barmy that shows up in the adventures, however. If a character's got 
only a minor role in a stoiy, he's likely to have nothing but an abbreviated stat line right in the 
text, like this: Goji the Quick (Pl/c? tiefling/F4/Bleak Cabal/N). 

The Planescape(r) Campaign Setting boxed set (2600) explains how to read abbreviated stat 
lines. That product is all that's required to play Dead Gods , but the DM'll find the Planescape 
Monstrous Compendium(r) Appendix (2602) and Appendix II (2613) helpful as well. Both "Out of 
the Darkness" and "Into the Light" contain further suggestions for products that provide more 
detail about planar locations important to the adventures. 

Dead Gods is full of maps, but it also includes a poster sheet detailing important areas in the 
adventures. Depending on how many times the sheet is unfolded, it shows different maps. At cer 
tain points in each ride, the DM's instructed to unfold the sheet to whatever map's needed at the 
time. 

Finally, as with all Planescape adventures, the italicized text printed in amber is meant to be 
read aloud to the players. All other information is meant for the Dungeon Master alone. 



? 4 ? 









"Know that now and forevermore, he Who once claimed Thanatos is no more. The past master of 
this place is pone and shall not return . /. Kiaransalee. Mother of Vengeance and Mistress of Un 
life. rule here now and shall into infinity. My will is law 
in Thanatos. for it is now my realm. 

"Let no soul, mortal or otherwise, speak of the for 
mer ruler again. Let no written word, anywhere in all ex 
istence. past or present, record his misbegotten appella 
tion. Let this be the last moment any creatures ever hear the name fall upon their ears. The last 
voice to speak the name shall be that of his executioner, and 1 say it now for the final time: 

" okcus!" 


Introduction 


? BACKGROUND A w 



THERE are 
T (c) 

*s+, G (c) (c) D ALWAYS 
S E C(c) N D, 

EVIL always RETURNS. 
THIRD, +He FIRS+ RULE 

ISN'T ALWAYS TRUE 


Sometime in the not-so-distant past, some 
thing occurred on the Astral Plane, an 
event that'd have 
repercussions 
throughout the 
multiverse: A 
dead god began to 
stir. 'Course, fallen 
deities return to life every now 
and then, but this time was different. The power continued to rise, his appearance slowly 
changing, his form slowly warping. Then the god simply vanished from the Silver Void. Only 
the Guardian of the Dead Gods, he who once was Anubis, noticed the disappearance - and he 
shuddered at the implications. One of his charges was returning to life. 

And his name was Orcus. 

Forces - possibly inadvertent, possibly not - conspired to bring the dead god back. Some 
where in a tiny demiplane known as the City That Waits, a number of the former Abyssal lord's 
worshipers suddenly awoke from their eternal slumber. Somewhere on the Prime, a lich named 
Acererak stirred up the dark suspension of the Negative Energy Plane with a barmy scheme. 
Somewhere in a completely different world, a once-powerful devotee of the god of undeath sent 
one last impassioned prayer. 

Who knows how it all came together? Who knows the true dark 
of such things? Somehow, a dead power was given another chance to 
right the wrongs committed against him. A single word escaped the 
lips of the tanar'ri god as he rose from the Silver Void: 

"Vengeance." 


THREE RULES 
ENDINGS. 

WINS. 


THF FALL (r)F (c)RCUS 


- TARSHFVA L(c) NGRF ACH, 
a PLANE WALKER 


It all started long ago, when a minor demipower named Kiaran 
salee first stood against the tanar'ri lord. See, Orcus ruled a 
layer of the Abyss (some say multiple layers), and his realm was 
filled with the undead over which he held sway. Planewalkers un 
fortunate enough to have stumbled into Thanatos - but lucky enough to have 
given it the laugh - described it as an endless, ghoulish reverie. At least, they did at first. Over 
the eons, however, the realm grew as fat and inattentive as the Abyssal lord himself. No one had 
ever challenged the mighty Orcus, and he began to lose the dark edge that'd helped him rise to a 
position of power in the first place. His actions were careless, and his realm became a place of 
cold, quiet, undead languor. 


? 6 ? 



'Sf 





KJrW\J&kft 

1 m%/ ' rl /vAl rrm tl'nl [ 


yLaVj " 

jfvjPM :mv v 

M&C Z;*' 


[^ A i'e i }y^\ TUI '^MmKI 

v**\.\fl fr ii^PrvSIjf 

1 


/ JSE' 










That's when Kiaransalee, a drow goddess of vengeance, 
made her move. She'd somehow been slighted by the tanar'ri 
lord. To this day, no one really knows the nature of the of 
fense, or even if it was grievous or minor. Some folks rattle 
their bone-boxes that Orcus's actions caused her to remain 
only a demipower among the drow when she'd had a chance 
to supplant Lolth. Others say that the crime was trivial. To Ki 
aransalee, the details hardly mattered. She conspired against 
Orcus and eventually slew him through treachery and sur 
prise, quickly usurping his realm and position. 

Thus, the first utterance by the tanar'ri lord upon his re 
birth could have been either an oath or a reference to a former 
wrong. But even when revived from his deathlike slumber, 
Orcus still wasn't truly restored to life. His new existence 
more closely mirrored that of the undead over which he'd 
once ruled. He'd become an undead god. 

THC Rise (r)f TC n e B R(c) u s 

To celebrate and signify his new state of existence, Orcus 
chose a new name. Now a thin, small, shadowy creature, he 
called himself "Tenebrous," for he was shut off from the light 
of life forevermore. What's more, he'd lost too much strength 
to hold onto his former level of divinity. Lesser than even a 
demipower now, Tenebrous could no longer form avatars. But 
make no mistake - he was still a god, far beyond the strength 
of the mightiest mortal, and still in command of potent and 
terrible might. More than ever before, he hungered to exact 
revenge on those who'd wronged him. And in his new, twisted 
state - twisted both physically and mentally - that meant 
everyone in the multiverse. 

Bathed in unholy energies, Tenebrous left the Astral by 
way of Yggdrasil, the World Ash, whose branches wind their 
way through the cosmos to reach many (some say all) planes. 
He knew he'd need help to regain his former power, but in 
trying to summon his old servants, Tenebrous discovered that 
they, too, had been slain by Kiaransalee. So he brought them 
back to uniife. These undead tanar'ri he called visages , and he 
set them upon the task of secretly gathering information to 
aid in his vengeance. Yggdrasil allowed them to walk the 
planes as needed, and the quiet town of Crux - nestled in the 
branches of the World Ash - served as a secret base. 

No one knows exactly how much time passed at this 
point in the tale. Suffice it to say that some years later Tene 
brous discovered the means by which to achieve his evil goal. 
In the ruins of Pelion on the plane of Arborea, the undead 
lord found the Last Word. It was the ultimate magic of un 
making, a force potent enough to slay even a god - just the 
thing Tenebrous'd sought. 

But still he couldn't make his move. He had nearly every 
thing he needed: the power to slay anyone in his path, a small 
but efficient army of infiltrators, a convenient base for his 
cadre of spies, and a fortress known as Tcian Sumere hidden 
deep within the Negative Energy Plane (a hideaway he'd cre 
ated long ago for just such an emergency). 

But Tenebrous lacked one important item - the talisman 


that made him what he was. He needed his symbol, the tool 
that contained a portion of his veiy essence. The thing that'd 
make it clear to his enemies that he had returned. The thing 
that'd let him strike fear into the hearts of his foes, so that 
they'd know in their last seconds of life exactly who'd de 
feated them. 

The being that had been Orcus needed his wand. 

THC TAIC (c)f +HC WAND 

In those long years past, when the goddess Kiaransalee de 
stroyed and supplanted Orcus, she left no deed undone. She 
killed his servants and slew each of his proxies, all except for 
Rotting Jack, who convinced her to take him on as her own. 
(Sure, Kiaransalee knew that Jack was trying to bob her to 
gain power for himself, but she brought him into her fold for 
amusement.) 

The goddess then used strong magic to wipe away every 
mention of her foe's name, wherever and however it'd been 
recorded. She lacked the power to erase the very memory of 
Orcus from the minds of the multiverse (which is what she re 
ally wanted to do), but her enchantment still swept through 
the planes, removing the name "Orcus" from all histories, 
etchings, and the like. Thus did she reshape Thanatos into her 
own image, though the undead residents remained virtually 
unchanged. 

Lastly, Kiaransalee dealt with the Wand of Orcus, the for 
mer ruler's most cherished and mighty artifact. She gave it to 
Kestod and Erehe, two of her living drow followers. (While the 
power of the wand put them in great danger, the goddess 
didn't trust her new undead followers - certainly not Rotting 
Jack! - with so potent an artifact.) Kiaransalee transported 
the two drow to Agathion, the fourth layer of Pandemonium, 
where they buried the wand in an unknowable, unreachable 
vault of stone. Then she brought them back and rewarded the 
berks by drowning them both in the River Styx. Thus, not 
only were they dead (and could tell no tales), but even if they 
were contacted or restored to life, they'd remember nothing. 

Kiaransalee felt confident that the Wand of Orcus would 
stay lost forever - so confident, in fact, that she actually al 
lowed one of the dead drow to return. Erehe had been the 
beloved consort of one of Kiaransalee's most powerful priest 
esses, so the goddess allowed him to be resurrected and rejoin 
his lover on the Prime Material Plane. The other drow, Kestod, 
became an undead creature in his mistress's realm, as did all 
of her petitioners. And short-sighted Kiaransalee forgot about 
them both, focusing instead on running her new realm (which 
was quite large for a demipower) and scheming to unseat 
Lolth. 

THE U N H (c) LY QUCS + 

In his search for knowledge - specifically, the dark of his lost 
wand - Tenebrous journeyed to Mechanus and confronted 
the lord of the modrons, Primus, the One and the Prime. 
Primus couldn't or wouldn't answer to the undead lord's sat- 


? 84 




isfaction, so Tenebrous spoke the Last Word and slew the 
supreme modron, just as he'd done with the others he'd vis 
ited. (His quest left much blood in its wake, some of it the 
blood of gods.) 

Unbeknownst to anyone, the shadowy, un 
dead lord then assumed the role of the 
master of all modrons, filling the void of 
command before Primus could 
be replaced from the 
ranks below. And 
though it was not yet 
time for the next Great 
Modron March, he gave the 
orders for the procession to 
begin. Thus, the modrons 
poured forth from 
Mechanus and surveyed 
each of the Outer Planes, 
gathering information on 
everything they saw, just as 
they always did - but this 
time, the dark of their discoveries 
flew back to Tenebrous. 

This went on for years. (The details of this errant march 
are chronicled in the Planescape adventure anthology The 
Great Modron March [2628].) Then one day, while trekking 
through the Lower Planes, the modrons learned of Kestod and 
Erehe, the two drow who'd hidden the Wand of Orcus. Tene 
brous left Mechanus and made preparations to travel to the 
Abyss clandestinely to capture the undead berk in Thanatos. 
Meanwhile, he sent his visages to Baator, to the desert realm 
of Set, where they were to bring back a magical blossom said 
to restore memories drained by the River Styx. The drow pris 
oner would be made to remember where he'd buried the wand. 

There were other sources to question, too - it never hurt 
to gain knowledge. Didn't the illithid god Maanzecorian re 
portedly know a great many secrets? And the deity known as 
Camaxtli, as well? Tenebrous'd gladly kill every god in the 
cosmos until he found his wand, but he knew that such ram 
pant violence would alert others too quickly. He hoped that 
the visages would succeed, so he wouldn't have to visit Baa 
tor personally and slay Set. That'd certainly draw a great deal 
of unwanted attention. 

Nonetheless, Tenebrous would let nothing and no one 
stand in his way. He'd learn the location of his wand. He'd 
teach Kiaransalee the meaning of power. He'd have his re 
venge on the multiverse.... 


? ADVf-N + U RE SUmmARY ? 

As "Out of the Darkness" begins, the player characters have 
no idea what they're getting themselves into. No wise old sage 
meets them in a tavern and begs them to prevent the return of 
an evil dead god. Instead, the PCs stumble into the real plot as 
they take part in another. 


THA+ is N(c)+ DEAD 
WHICH can E+ERNAL LIE. 

AND wi + h S+RANGE E(c)NS 
DEA + H rtiAY DIE. 


EVEN 


- AN UNKN0WN PRime AU + H0K. 
PR0VING +ha+ N0+ ALL 
+ H€m ARE CLUELESS 


In Chapter I, "Circean Embers," the heroes follow a band 
of khaasta raiders who're using a strange magical item that 
can steal the beauty from a person or object. The khaasta's 
path leads from Sigil to the Outlands, and 
from there to the creatures' lair - the 
entrance to which is found on Ygg- 
drasil, the World Ash. But the 
raiders' king refuses to sur 
render his precious beauty. 

In Chapter II, "Crux," 
the PCs spend 
time resting or 
healing in the 
tree-burg and 
learn that an evil force 
has come to Yggdrasil, 
a dark presence that 
seems to twist the minds of 
those most in tune with the 
tree. Even the ratatosk, protectors of Yggdrasil, fall prey to 
the disturbing influence. 

The heroes might find their own minds clouded in Chap 
ter III, "Masks," in which they learn that Crux has been com 
promised by shadowy, fiendish creatures able to alter a berk's 
perceptions and steal his identity. Eventually, they follow the 
creatures - which are really Tenebrous's visages - to the 
realm of Set, where the fiends seek a magical blossom that re 
stores memories lost to the Styx. After a dramatic battle in 
Crux, the PCs might believe that they've put an end to the vis 
ages' menace, even if many questions are left unanswered. 

Naturally, the leatherheads're wrong. In Chapter IV, 
"Message From Thanatos," a summons from Crux brings the 
heroes back to town by way of a nearly dead prime-material 
world called Ranais. While crossing Ranais, the PCs learn 
more of the visages and perhaps even their foul master. Fi 
nally, back on Yggdrasil, the bashers take the fhorge by the 
tusks and ambush the visages, hopefully first gaining clues as 
to the fiends' true base of operations: a fortress within the 
Negative Energy Plane. 

In Chapter V, "The Bottom of the Multiverse," the PCs ex 
plore the stronghold, perhaps picking up hints to the identity 
of the visages' master and the source of his newfound power. 
But they also encounter a vampire held prisoner by the fiends 

- the drow Kestod, who lost his memory in the River Styx. 
The visages obviously want to wrest some bit of forgotten 
knowledge from Kestod's mind. If the PCs help him, Kestod 
warns them that the only other berk with the secret is found 
in the Vault of the Drow, on Oerth. 

If the cutters follow up on this lead, Chapter VI, "The 
Vault of the Drow," thrusts them into a civil war that threat 
ens to tear the Vault apart. In the midst of chaos and danger, 
they locate the drow Kestod mentioned and finally tumble to 
the truth: The evil god Orcus (now called Tenebrous) is the 
one leading the visages. The secret he desires is the location of 
his infamous wand, and he's been killing everyone in his path 

- even gods - to find it. 


? 9 ? 



Either before or after the trip 
to the Vault, the heroes can chase 
another trail to Arborea. In Chapter 
VII, "The Ruins of 
Pelion," they live 
out other bashers' 
experiences from the 
distant past and learn how Tene 
brous gained the power to slay 
gods. However, if he doesn't 
recover the Wand of Orcus soon, the former Abyssal lord's 
newfound might will consume him from within. 

Eventually, the PCs race to the Howling Plane in Chapter 
VIII, "Deepest Pandemonium." After getting directions from 
the circus-caravan known as the Cynosure, the heroes reach 
the fourth layer, where the wand lies hidden. They must find 
the artifact before Tenebrous does, and they've got to destroy 
it, send it far away, or otherwise keep it from the evil lord 
long enough for him to die - again. 

Some time afterward, the bashers take part in Chapter IX, 
"The Dead-Book of the Gods," wherein they travel to the As 
tral Plane on a seemingly unrelated mission. Once there, they 
learn that a priest of Tenebrous they first encountered in Pan 
demonium is attempting to bring his god back yet again. The 
PCs must make their way across the floating husk of Tene 
brous to confront the priest and stop his evil scheme. But is 
Tenebrous really dead? With all of the manipulation of their 
perceptions throughout the adventure, the cutters just can't be 
sure. 

Interspersed throughout the nine chapters are Interludes 
that reveal the dark of Tenebrous's wicked machinations. 
These Interludes aren't meant to involve the PCs - they 
simply help the DM better understand what's going on as the 
story progresses. 

? PREPARING F(c)R PLAY ? 

"Out of the Darkness" is a massive ADHD(r) Planescape(r) ad 
venture, an epic with many characters to meet, locations to 
explore, and obstacles to overcome. It's designed for a party 
of four to six characters of 6th to 9th level. But even such 
advanced bashers will take many playing sessions to complete 
the scenario. 

Before running "Out of the Darkness," the DM should be 
sure to read through the entire adventure at least once com 
pletely, reviewing the pertinent sections before each playing 
session. The flowchart on the inside back cover of the book is 
meant to help the DM keep the course of the ride straight. 

The Appendix (starting on page 157) contains the 
Monstrous Compendium(r) Appendix -style entry for the visage, 
a brand new creature, as well as full statistics for major char 
acters, foes, and monsters. What's more, the last pages of the 
book feature 15 different full-color illustrations of scenes 
from "Out of the Darkness." These illustrations are labeled by 
letter (A through 0), and at certain points during the adven 


ture, the text instructs the DM to show the players a particu 
lar picture. The illustrations give the players a better idea of 
what their characters encounter ("You see this"), so the DM 
shouldn't show them any pictures ahead of time. 

'Course, maps of important locations appear throughout 
the book, but the folded poster sheet contains three additional 
maps for use with "Out of the Darkness": a map of Crux, a 
map of Tcian Sumere, and a large map of the Vault of the 
Drow. When folded up in full, one side of the poster sheet 
shows Crux and the other shows Tcian Sumere. When opened 
once, the sheet shows the Vault of the Drow. (When unfolded 
in full, it provides a map for use with "Into the Light.") This 
folding method should make it easier for the DM to prevent 
players from seeing maps that they're not supposed to see. 

The Appendix does not contain stats for Tenebrous. 
He may have been weakened by his death and rebirth, but 
he's still a deity. The PCs can't wound or fight him, much less 
kill him. 

USING "IN + (c) + HE UGH+ M 

"Into the Light" is not part of "Out of the Darkness." It's a sep 
arate, stand-alone adventure that takes place in Sigil. The DM 
can run the scenario on its own or incorporate it into "Out of 
the Darkness," turning "Into the Light" into a sub-plot of the 
main story. The flowchart on the inside back cover of this 
book shows the recommended method for linking the three 
parts of "Into the Light" with the nine chapters of "Out of the 
Darkness." Suggestions throughout the text offer the DM 
other possibilities for integrating the two adventures. 

No matter how the adventures weave in and out of each 
other, the PCs will have to cope with different events on dif 
ferent levels. They can use what they learn in one plot to deal 
with problems in the other, and certain characters (such as 
Talismin, who appears in Chapter I of "Out of the Darkness") 
can affect events in both storylines. 

A skillful DM can even make the players believe that the 
two different adventures are really j)art of one large scenario. 
The two-plot method of storytelling might seem a bit complex 
at first, but it gives the DM and the players a great deal more 
flexibility and allows for excellent role-playing. 

THE PLAYER CHARAC + ERS 

"Out of the Darkness" isn't intended for low-level adventur 
ers, but it tries to make the point that a player character 
doesn't have to be a vastly powerful juggernaut dripping with 
magical items in order to get involved in the big events of the 
planes. Fact is, when dealing with matters this big, a PC's 
level of power becomes unimportant. A deity like Tenebrous 
doesn't much care whether a hero's lst-level or 18th-level - 
the berk's still a mortal, totally incapable of fighting a god. 

The DM's encouraged to alter "Out of the Darkness" as 
necessary to fit the adventure into his existing campaign. 
However, it's not recommended that he drastically change the 
scenario to accommodate very low- or high-level PCs. First of 



? 10 ? 


all, making things easier so that lower-level characters can 
survive will prove difficult - and will weaken the game. See, 
this plane-spanning adventure takes the cutters to highly 
dangerous trouble-spots, and if that danger isn't present, it 
cheapens their existence. After all, if the Abyss isn't terrible 
and deadly, what's the point? And if the DM lets higher-level 
heroes play, the sods might believe that they can fight Tene 
brous or undertake other addle-coved actions that should 
rightfully end in their deaths. The PCs in "Out of the Dark 
ness" must be capable, yet well aware of their limitations in 
comparison to what they're up against. 

They've also got to be somewhat self-motivated. They're 
pulled into the main plot slowly, but when they start to dis 
cover that strange things are happening, the cutters are on 
their own. No external force makes them keep going, no guide 
leads them along from one scene to the next, and no one says, 
"Orcus is doing bad things. Here's a hundred gold pieces. Get 
him." The PCs must provide their own motivations and their 
own solutions. Curiosity and the benevolence to right 
wrongs'll probably drive the heroes onward - at least, they 
should. Berks interested only in treasure or other material 
gain aren't best suited for "Out of the Darkness," and the DM 
may need to provide alternate motivations for such bashers. 

As mentioned earlier, the adventures of The Great Mod - 
ron March lead directly into Dead Gods , making that earlier 
product a "prequel" of sorts. However, PCs who took part in 
all of the scenarios from The Great Modron March might be a 
little over-powered for the first few chapters of "Out of the 
Darkness." That's fine, though; the DM can balance them out 
by letting the visages alter the perceptions of those characters 
even more. With their powers of lucidity control, the visages 
can challenge PCs of virtually any level, especially if the 
sods're caught unaware. 

TIPS f (c) R +HC Dm 

"Out of the Darkness" is a complicated adventure, particularly 
if used in conjunction with "Into the Light." This section of 
fers a few tips to help make the DM's job easier. 

One of the problems with running published adventures 
is that the players often have some idea of what they're get 
ting into. If the DM takes out a thick book called Dead Gods , 
the players'll know that they're about to start a long adven 
ture involving expired deities. But the first chapter of "Out of 
the Darkness" pulls the heroes into the main plot by having 
them chase khaasta raiders. The DM should take pains to pre 
vent the players from seeing the book too soon, perhaps by 
copying Chapter I and leaving the book itself out of sight 
until it's needed. (By permission of TSR, Inc., pages 12 
through 25 of Dead Gods may be reproduced for personal use 
only. (c) 1997 TSR. Inc. All rights reserved.) 

Chapter VII, "The Ruins of Pelion," may present chal 
lenges that many DMs won't have faced before. See, at that 
point in the game, the players will create a new group of tem 
porary characters who adventured in Pelion's distant past. To 
ease the transition between the original PCs and the new 


bunch, it might be a good idea to start the new heroes at the 
beginning of a playing session and not return to the original 
bashers until the beginning of yet another. (In other words, 
don't make the players switch characters in the middle of a 
session.) What's more, the DM can run the temporary PCs* ad 
venture in a different room or an entirely new location in 
order to make the experience seem even more unusual. An 
other option is to have a "fill-in" DM from outside the playing 
group run the sessions that involve the temporary characters. 
'Course, the regular DM still needs to be aware of everything 
that happens during that time. 

Here's an even stranger idea. In Chapter IX, "The Dead- 
Book of the Gods," the PCs travel to the Astral, where the 
Guardian of the Dead Gods warns them that the threat of 
Tenebrous is not yet over. Instead 
of running that chapter last, 
the DM can use it to 
begin "Out of the 
Darkness." Then, 
when the Guardian delivers 
message to the heroes, it 

repressed memories of events. At that point, the PCs 
return to Chapter I and play out the adventure until they 
catch up to Chapter IX again - apparently, they'd already 
done all of those things but somehow lost their memories of 
them. (Perhaps Tenebrous wiped their brain-boxes clean so 
the sods wouldn't remember that he was trying to restore 
himself to full power.) 

For this to work, the DM must arrange in advance for the 
characters to lose a considerable amount of time - most likely 
several months - that they can't account for. But that could 
be great fun, too. Imagine the heroes' confusion and fear as 
they slowly realize that it's six months later than they thought 
it was. The DM must also deal with the fact that the PCs al 
ready know they'll survive the adventure, since they're alive 
at the "end" when they talk to the Guardian. 

Finally, it's essential that the DM familiarize himself with 


it unleashes a flood of 

_A * ,1_* Dfr 


the many locations visited in "Out of the Darkness. It s 
enough to read through the descriptions in A DM(tm) Guide to 
the Planes (found in the Planescape Campaign Setting boxed 
set), but other products provide more details about specific 
settings. The Planes of Chaos boxed set (2603) has the dark of 
Yggdrasil, the Abyss, Pandemonium, and Pelion. The Planes 
of Law boxed set (2607) covers Set's realm on Baator. A Guide 
to the Astral Plane (2625) lays bare the Silver Void. A Player's 
Primer to the Outlands (2610) could prove handy as the heroes 
track the khaasta in Chapter I. And numerous products featur 
ing Sigil - including In the Cage (2609) and Uncaged (2624) - 
provide information on the Cage's wards and residents. 

A few non-PLANESCAPE products might also prove helpful. 
The classic lst-edition adventure Vault of the Drow (Dungeon 
Module D3) contains a great deal of chant on the Vault, 
though most of it's been presented and updated in Chapter VI 
of "Out of the Darkness." If the DM wants to expand on the 
heroes' stay in the Vault, the accessory The Drow of the Un 
derdark (9326) reveals much about the dark elves. 


? 11 ? 



Chapter. I 

Circe ah embers 



"Slavering gods . bur you're slow!*' The toilmaster's 
whip cracked in the air above the heads of the 
workers. "Put some back into it!" A long, mean 
dering smile crossed his reptilian mouth. "lf belief is power, as the chant 
% says, then I believe you'll all be dead as Dustmen if you don't get that cart 

moving," The khaasta urged his li/ard 
mount onward into the muddy terrain. 

The sky was a drab color usually 
found in the streets of Sigil or the glooms 
of the Gray Waste. If the clouds held any 
rain, it would likely prove to be greasy and dirty. And everyone in the caravan 
was already befouled with mud and oil. The portal from Sigil had taken them 
through the strip mines of Chariamur. and it would be a while before they 
reached Iron ridge. 

Thirty human slaves pulled a huge wagon full of supplies 
and stolen cargo. The khaasta guards on lizardback 
watched over them, but the toilmaster 
gave the orders. As he looked on, 
the wagon went up and over a large 
rut of dried mud. A clink-elink-elink 
of glass was followed by a sudden, sharp 
crash. 

The wagon stopped. The toilmaster looked toward 
the back of the cart, where a handful of slaves had been pushing. One of the men 
had changed. His countenance now hinted at something respectable - something 
attractive. Despite the fact that the slave was human, the toilmaster now found 
something pleasant about the berk. He'd have to make sure the worker remained 
in his personal force . . . 

'Damn!" said the toilmaster. trying to shake himself back to his senses. 

4 Watch out. you sodding leatherheads!" He brought his whip down upon the 
back of the nearest slave. '* You 've broken a bottle and wasted some beauty ." 


tha-ks + HE PR0BLEm 
Wl + H HUmANS. 
thevre +0(c) S0DDIN' S + UPID 

+ e rilAKE G (c) 0 D SLAVES 

- +HC +(c)ILmAS + CR 


? TH f: THIFF (c)F CHARmS ? 

A few hundred years ago, a planar wizard named Chyv Imrin discovered a por 
tal that led from his kip in Sigil to a prime-material world called Neirston. He 
knew the portal'd prove quite useful - the chant said Neirston was magic-rich - 
but the problem, he soon found, was the key to the portal: beauty. See, any 
thing could pass through the portal, but its beauty was drained away to acti 
vate the door. And that left the person or object something without 
beauty, unappealing to all eyes. Gems lost their luster and shine. 
Works of art became bleak and plain. People became uncomely. 
They didn't change physically in any way; they simply lost some 
• intangible quality and became unattractive. 

Chyv, of course, didn't want to suffer that fate. So he constructed what he 
thought was a minor magical item, an object that has since proved to be quite pow 
erful: the thief of charms. The thief is a rod of iron with a glass bottle attached to 
one end. When touched to an object or creature, the rod steals all beauty from the 
target and stores it in the bottle, which can be removed and corked. (The target is 
not allowed a saving throw.) Other bottles can easily be fitted onto the end, and any 
bottle or similar container will do, for the magic is in the rod. If no container is at 
tached to the end of the rod, the thief cannot drain beauty. 

Whenever Chyv wanted to journey to Neirston, he used the thief of charms 
to fill a bottle with stolen beauty and then carried it through the portal. The 
doorway always consumed the bottled beauty rather than drain it from the 


? 12 ? 



wizard or from an item he 
carried or wore. 

But Chyv couldn't fill his study with hundreds 
of flasks; he had to capture beauty more or less as he 
needed it. See, he learned the hard way that stolen beauty 
is fleeting and dangerous. When stored in a bottle or 
other container, the beauty fades away completely in about 
a month. When the beauty is applied to an object or a living being, the effects 
last for only a week. What's worse, if something is given beauty beyond its own - 
in other words, if beauty is drained from one thing and added to another that already has 
it - the recipient becomes so attractive that those who look upon it feel compelled to pos 
sess it. For these reasons, Chyv called the stolen beauty circean embers. 

Eventually, the wizard, like all mortals, died. The portal, and indeed the world of Neirston, was 
forgotten in the Cage. The thief of charms passed into obscurity - that is, until the item was looted by 
cross-traders and eventually sold to a khaasta bandit-king named Haac(!)nss (pronounced like a phlegmy 
cough, a click, and a hiss put together). Haac(!)nss didn't look upon the rod as a bit of esoteric magic. He 
saw it as a tool to get rich. He figured that what the item could steal, he could then sell, and he sent his 
troops out with the thief of charms to collect all the circean embers they could get. But the reptilian 
raiders 
failed to see the true nature of the rod or of beauty itself. They didn't realize that all natural things pos 
sessed inherent beauty. Instead, they assumed they had to drain the beauty from intelligent, living 
targets. 
And so the khaasta made their way to Sigil, to steal from the Cagers that which the sods experienced so 


seldom. 


USING +H£ CIRCCAN EITIBERS 

Throughout the adventure, various bashers might use or fall victim to the thief of charms. The DM 
should 
keep in mind the following general rules to govern how it works: 

? Anyone who loses beauty to the rod can regain it by exposing himself to any circean embers. It's 
not necessary to find the exact bottle containing the beauty stolen from that individual. 

? A victim who's lost beauty suffers a -2 modifier to reaction rolls made by others - unless the lucky 
sod runs into a very rare individual who doesn't make judgments based on physical appearance. 
Stolen beauty affects a victim's basic nature; in other words, an ogre who loses beauty and an elf 
who loses beauty both suffer the same penalty. 

? Any person or object whose appearance is enhanced with the circean embers is perceived by others 
to be extremely attractive. Onlookers who fail a saving throw versus spell are affected as by the 
sympathy effect of the 8th-level wizard spell antipathy-sympathy. The berks feel compelled to pos 
sess the beautiful person or object as they might desire a glittering treasure or magnificent work of 
art. (Members of the Bleak Cabal, and any other creatures the DM so chooses, gain a +2 bonus to 
their saving throws versus the sympathy effect. Sensates and other beings designated by the DM 
suffer a penalty of-2, as they focus so much on their senses.) 

? Anyone currently made beautiful by an application of circean embers is immune to the sympathy 
effect caused by seeing another "infected" person or object. 

? Circean embers wear off in about a week, restoring the beautiful subject to normal and canceling 
the sympathy effect in others. But the thief of charms can restore a victim to normal immediately, 
and the circean embers can be dispelled as can any other magical effect. (Note that someone who 
loses beauty won't return to normal in a week and can't be "cured" with dispel magic ; the victim's 
stuck unless exposed to circean embers.) 

? A single use of the thief of charms will drain all of a victim's beauty or bestow upon him as much 
beauty as he could ever have. In other words, using the rod several times on the same target won't 
have any added effect. 


? 13 ? 




? A CRY IN +HC NIGH+ ? 

This chapter, the first portion of "Out of the Darkness," has 
little to do with the overall plot of Tenebrous's return. Instead, 
it's meant to subtly draw the player characters into the story 
without letting them learn too quickly just how big a problem 
they face. The text below assumes that the PCs begin the ad- 
v^ture in Sigil, although the DM can place the opening in 
any burg desired. 

One evening, after dinner, the PCs hear a shriek from 
outside their tavern (or home, or wherever they've just fin 
ished their meal). 'Course, the Cage has more than its share of 
screams, but true heroes will, at the very least, investigate to 
see what's happening. When they do, read: 

A thin slip of a buy stumbles through the street. As he 
gets closer, you can sec the elvish heritage in his pale face. His 
clothes hear the marks of a recent scu ffle, hut lie doesn 't look 
grievously harmed. 

"Look!" he cries, plaintively. ~Look at what they've dune 
to me!" 

You see no great wounds or scars . although you must 
admit that you've never seen a less comely half-elf There's 
just something odd about him. but you can t quite put your 
finger on it. 


Suddenly, a cloaked figure hurries forward, toward the 
boy. The stranger seems to have arranged the hood of his 
brown robe so it hides his face. Looking down at the half-elf 
who has collapsed crying to his knees, the figure simply 
stales: "This must end ." 

The cloaked figure (who is female, though the loose robe 
hides her shape) seems very concerned about the boy. If ap 
proached by the PCs, she introduces herself as Tiandra (PI/9 
human/F4/Sign of One/NG). As she helps the boy up, her 
cloak opens to reveal a tall, black-skinned woman of regal 
bearing who, like the lad. is quite unattractive - though 
none of the PCs can quite place what it is about her that 
makes her so. 

The half-elf seems confused, perhaps in shock. Only if 
the PCs seem sincerely concerned about him will Tiandra be 
forthcoming about what happened. She explains that the boy 
was assaulted by reptilian creatures, and that she herself was 
attacked about a week ago. 

"Tate found me in the Lower Ward, near the Great 
f oundry, when I was assailed by three creatures of scale and 
claw. Their intent seemed more to detain than to harm, vet I'd 
have none of it. The largest produced a queer device, resem 
bling nothing so much as a mace with a glass bottle at one end 



.? 14 ? 






drawn sonic vital spark from me. and then all treat block. 

*7 awoke ant long after. I believe, but my attackers had 
vanished into Siyil's unholy night. Though I felt strange, if 
wasn't until I saw my reflection in a window that I knew what 
they'd done. They'd made me into the unlovely creature you 
see before you . Their soticcry has cursed me to befoul in all 
eves . Even my voice gives no comfort to those who hear it. 

"Those serpentine monsters seemed to have no motive in 
their attack other than to afflict me so. And it wasn't just me 
- others, like this lad, have been so struck. I'll end these as 
saults if it's the death of me! And I'll reward you well for aitv 
aid rendered, should you be so inclined." 

By this point, the boy has recovered enough of his wits 
to join the conversation. He gives his name as Acorrid De- 
gasias (Pl/cJ half-elf/O-level/Free League/N) and confirms 
Tiandra's tale. The same thing happened to him, save that 
there were far more of the monsters, and rather than fighting 
he tried to give them some garnish. But the lizard-creatures 
took the jink and his appearance. Acorrid remarks that he 
feels more as though something was taken from him than 
given to him - in other words, he blames his new appearance 
on a theft, not a curse. 

If the PCs ask about involving the Harmonium (Sigil's 
normal law-enforcers), Tiandra complains that the Hardheads 
won't help. None of the victims has been wealthy, and Tian 
dra thinks the Harmonium helps only the rich (which is not 
necessarily the truth). In any event, no one's been successful 
in stopping the reptilian attackers. Neither Tiandra nor Acor 
rid even realize that the creatures are khaasta. 

If the PCs show interest in stopping the assaults, they 
gain Tiandra's thanks. She also promises them 100 gp each for 
their trouble if they're successful in ending the reign of terror. 

This encounter, or a slightly altered version of it, 
can be used at any time in any civilized location. It can take 
place as the PCs enter or leave a town, or as they simply stroll 
through an otherwise innocuous street. Fact is, this entire 
chapter can be placed in any community, so it should be easy 
to incorporate the adventure into an existing campaign. 

? TAKING +H£ RIDC ? 

Assuming the PCs agree to help, Tiandra explains that all of 
the attacks have occurred in the Lower Ward, and they always 
happen at night, just before antipeak. She asks the PCs to 
prowl the Lower Ward tonight for the assailants while she gets 


Acorrid to safety. Whether or not the characters help, 
Tiandra plans to begin her own hunt as soon as she 
sees to the young half-elf. 

THC L(r)W{R WARD 

Even at the best of times, the 
Lower Ward is a hazardous 
place to be at night. The 
Dungeon Master can and 
should put together a few 
short encounters to emphasize the danger. The ward boasts 
general ruffians, mysterious shadow-skulkers, and even 
fiends; wise PCs should try to steer clear of all of them. It'll 
take the group a very long time to search the whole ward. Not 
everyone they meet should be "an encounter," but the DM 
should make sure that enough occurs to give the PCs the feel 
ing that the search is taking a long time - not to mention the 
idea that the streets of Sigil are never completely safe or un 
eventful. A few ideas include: 

A cross-trader (PI /6 githzerai/T5/Believers of the 
Source/NE), trying to peel gullies, begs passersby to 
enter a nearby abandoned building to rescue a hurt 
child. 'Course, there's no child; instead, the rogue's 
prepared a trap: a 10-foot-deep pit covered by a large 
rug. If any victims fall in, the knight of the post offers 
to help them out - in exchange for all their jink. But 
even if they give him their money, he just gives them 
the laugh. 

? Two Anarchist agents (PI/ 9 human/F3/Revolutionary 
League/CN) who've just set a fire in a nearby Cipher 
factotum's house try to skulk away in the darkness. 

Twelve Cipher namers (var/var/Fl/Transcendent Order/ 
var) rush through the streets, on their way to put out 
the above-mentioned fire. As they're also looking for 
the arsonists, they're quick to jump to conclusions if 
they see anyone sneaking about. 

Five Hardhead soldiers (PI 16 human/F4/Harmonium/ 
LG) and their commander (Pr/9 human/Pal6/Harmo- 
nium/LG) search the ward for the khaasta. If they en 
counter the PCs, they try to send the heroes home - 
the berks aren't authorized to look for criminals. 

An illusionist (PI IS tiefiing/1117/CE) working for the 
tanar'ri tries to sneak a rutterkin into town unnoticed 
for some nefarious scheme. The wizard uses illusions 
fool or ward off passersby. 

A group of five bubbers (PI 16 human/O-level/Fated/N) 
looks for any way possible to obtain some jink for a 
drink. They might attack the PCs or offer to perform a 
minor task for a fee. 





rather than the normal spiked head. I slashed one creafurt 
with my blade, hut another got a grip on me while the third 
struck me with that strange item - not the glass end, hut its 
opposite. I felt an odd sensation, as though someone had 



? 15 ? 




THE KHAAS+A 


AF + ER +HC BA + + L€ 


At last, toward antipeak, the PCs come upon another victim of 
the khaasta thieves. A bariaur male, completely devoid of 
beauty, lies unconscious in an alleyway. Just as the PCs dis 
cover the poor sod, they hear distant sounds of movement, 
the clank of metal, and low hissing. 

Waking the bariaur is fairly easy, but if the PCs 
take the time to do so, they hear the above- 
mentioned noises fade almost out of per 
ception. The victim's name is Thardandis 
(Pl/cJ bariaur/F2/Society of Sensation/ 
CG). He's confused, groggy, and angry, 

but with prompting, he tells the PCs that he was attacked 
by a large group of lizard-men he calls khaasta. 

If the PCs follow the sounds, they head back out into the 
street and soon turn into another alley where the khaasta are 
preparing to make their escape with their stolen spoils. The 
heroes find 11 khaasta: 10 raiders and their leader, the toil- 
master. 

Though the khaasta almost certainly outnumber the PCs, 
at this point the creatures are primarily interested in escape. 
They've had their fill of Sigil and taken what they needed. If 
the heroes confront or attack them, the toilmaster sends 
enough khaasta (one per PC) to fight while he and the rest es 
cape through a portal further down the alley. This should pro 
vide enough time for them to get away; the portal stays open 
long enough to allow six khaasta to escape, and two or three 
of them can slip through in a round. However, should the toil- 
master be presented with the opportunity - such as if a PC 
gets past the remaining khaasta by skill or spell - he won't 
hesitate to use the thief of charms on the heroes. It serves as 
an effective delaying tactic and adds to the plunder. 

The portal the khaasta hope to use is a narrow crawl- 
space that leads under one of the side buildings. The key is the 
silver feather of an Arcadian dovehawk, which is not con 
sumed when used and functions when traveling either way 
through the two-way portal. The crawlspace leads to an iso 
lated mining area on the Outlands near the Caverns of 
Thought. Waiting there for the raiders are five more khaasta, 
eight human slaves, 10 giant lizard mounts, and a wagon 
filled with bottles of beauty and supplies for the trip overland 
to their lair - accessible only through a portal on the great 
tree Yggdrasil. 

\ ' It's crucial to the story that some of the cross-trad 
ing khaasta escape with the thief of charms and some of the 
stolen beauty. If necessary, the DM can increase the number 
of khaasta in the encounter, or rule that some of the creatures 
have already escaped through the portal by the time the PCs 
arrive in the alley (and make it clear to the heroes that this 
has happened). The latter option foils the use of a gate ward or 
surelock spell to stop the khaasta. 'Course, the PCs should 
want to follow the villains, but if the khaasta's 
wrongdoing isn't enough motivation, having one of 
the heroes fall under the effects of the thief of 
charms might be more compelling. 


The confrontation with the khaasta will more than likely end 
with the villains giving the PCs the laugh through the portal. 
The heroes are unable to follow, unless by some amazingly 
odd chance they have a silver Arcadian dovehawk feather. 
(The toilmaster makes no big show of the key, so the charac 
ters won't even catch a glimpse of it.) However, if a PC man 
aged to slip through the portal along with the khaasta, the 
creatures probably tear the poor sod to ribbons when he 
emerges on the other side; without the key, he won't be able 
to retreat back to his comrades in Sigil. 

Captured khaasta know a bit of chant. Intimidating one 
of these reptilian beasts is difficult, but a convincing threat of 
force or torture (or the use of magical charms) reveals the fol 
lowing: 

? The khaasta have a magical weapon that steals beauty; 
they hope to sell the beauty to others. 

? Anyone who's had his beauty stolen can regain it by 
exposing himself to that which is stored in the toilmas- 
ter's bottles. 

? The alley portal leads to a location on the Outlands 
from which the khaasta have only a few days' march to 
their forest home. This lair holds many khaasta. (If pos 
sible, the captives lie and tell the PCs that the lair con 
tains hundreds of their people.) 

None of the raiders know how to open the portal; only 
the toilmaster knows the dark of the feather. To tumble to this 
information, the PCs can try to cast warp sense or find the 
chant from a well-lanned graybeard. Luckily, a plethora of 
sources in the City of Doors specialize in the dark of portals 
and keys - for the right jink. Some cutters might visit the 
Guvners at the City Courts. In-the-know bloods might track 
down Lissandra the Gate-seeker (Pr/$ human/M9/Revolu- 
tionary League/NG), a tough wizard who carries a log book in 
which she records the nature of every portal she finds. And 
there's always Alluvius Ruskin (PI/9 tiefling/Wil 14/Incanti- 
fier/NE), the old proprietor of Tivvum's Antiquities, a shop in 
the Market Ward that sells every kind of gate key imaginable. 

No matter where the PCs obtain a silver Arcadian dove 
hawk feather, it costs them at least 50 gp and takes them the 
better part of a day to find. If the heroes then chase after the 
khaasta, they'll be well behind their quarry. It's important to 
the adventure that they don't actually catch up with the 
khaasta until the creatures have reached their secret lair. This 
shouldn't be a problem, however - following the villains'll be 
hard enough. 




? 16 ? 


? CHARI AFTIUR ? 

When the PCs pass through the alley portal, they emerge 
near an abandoned mine on the Outlands. Refer to the map 
on this page. 

You're greeted by the stench of oily metal shavings and 
air that's heavy with leadlike dust. The ground at your feet 
is muddy. even greasy, with trickles of befouled water run 
ning through the kneaded, soggy soil. A rough landscape of 
oily fillings and syrupy pools stretches in every direction. 
Dark . sooty clouds hang overhead, threatening a rain that 
you somehow know will only further pollute the environs, 
rather than cleanse the foul area. 

Long ago, Chariamur was an open-pit mine located 
between the realms of Ilsensine and Gzemnid on the Out 
lands. It was usually found in the 7th or 8th ring of the 
plane, though it currently rests in the 7th. The mine was 
created by a veritable nation of grimy, vile gnomes known 
as spriggans. These loathsome miners and their umber hulk 
slaves tore apart the land to such a degree that it's said to 
be a festering wound from which the Outlands will never 
heal. Ancient foundries and smelting works once sur 
rounded the mine, but they've disappeared into the fetid 
cesspool or were eaten away by the uncaring caress of time 
and corrosive rains. Fortunately, in the vast scheme of 
things, Chariamur is a tiny place. 

The odious gnomes are long gone, wiped out by pesti 
lence and Hood (or so the chant goes), but Chariamur's al 
ways been occupied by something or another. Until re 
cently, the area was used by spies and proxies of the illithid 
god Maanzecorian to spy upon his rival, Ilsensine, in the 
nearby Caverns of Thought. These spies based themselves 
in the Rotting Oracle, a building half-submerged in the oily 
mire. 


THC R0 + +ING 0 RACLE 

After the spriggans had left, but still many, many years 
ago, a huge rotunda was built in Chariamur by a set of 
quintuplet tieflings who believed they could channel infor 
mation from the moldering god known as Juiblex. Not long 
after its creation, the building sank halfway into the mud 
and mire of soot and metal tillings. The tieflings disap 
peared, but their structure survives - albeit half-submerged 
and askew. 



Plodding across this fetid ex 
panse, your boots grow heavy until 
a muddy build-up. which is blue 
with metallic dust. The sky seems ready to 
burst at any moment, though you spot what 
might be shelter oJJ' to your left. A blackened, scarred cliff- 
face rises up out of the mire, and built alongside it is a 
round, domed building that sits askew in the mud. 



The Realm 
• Norns^S^ 


Portal 
^ To 
Yggdrasil 


The Dwarven 
Mountains 


Spireward 


Khaasta 

Path 


Ironridge e 


fV^S.zemmd's 


Chariamur 

f . cz/Jy 


<%nH ensine 'Mk 

•-/L.Realm-^ 


Bedlam 


THE 

R(c) + + ING 
(c)RACLE 


Outside 

View 


Portal 


Double 

Doors 


Pillar 


Lower 

Level 




? 17 ? 

































As you watch, a figure emerges from the door of the 
structure. The skin surrounding its huge, white, pupil-less 
ryes is sallow brown with a hint of violet. Four small tentacles 
flail wildly from below where you 'd expect to see its nose and 
mouth. The fmen' it wears grows Jllthy from the ooze it runs 
through as it stumbles closer, but it pays you no heed . Three - 
fingered hands clutch at its soft skull , and suddenly, word- 
lessly, the creature's face and head are drawn inward by an ir 
resistible force - an implosion that resembles nothing so 
much as a giant . invisible hand crushing the skull of the crea 
ture like a grape. 

It falls dead into the mud, 

? Show the players Illo A (on page 169). 

The PCs will likely enter the Rotting Oracle to try to fig 
ure out what might have happened to the creature - a mind 
flayer known as Hananolith. Though the lower level of the 
building is submerged, the heroes still can enter easily 
enough; the doorway was originally raised and reached via a 
set of stairs (which are now completely hidden from view). 
The interior of the main level is a single room with pillars 
strung around the perimeter and a raised dias in the center. 
On the dias is an old ceramic pool, once used for divinations 
but now cracked and filthy. 

The space between two near pillars is actually a one-way 
portal from Gehenna. Through this portal came the agents of 
Maanzecorian long ago, and through this portal also came the 
illithid the PCs saw die - a former proxy of the deity. Former 
because Maanzecorian is now dead. Slain by Tenebrous and 
his wicked puissance, the illithid power of knowledge and se 
crets was among the first to die in the Abyssal lord's quest to 
regain his wand. 

If the PCs enter the Rotting Oracle, they also encounter a 
second mind flayer - Dleniacorus, another proxy (Px/il- 
lithid/HD 8+4/LE). 

Kneeling on the dias, another sickly mauve, tenraclc-vis- 
aged creature shudders with what seems great pain. One of its 
large, white eyes has gone black with blood, and more dark 
fluid seeps amid the tentacles - perhaps from a mouth ob 
scured by the writhing appendages. As you watch, dark hem 
orrhages appear, like cracks quite literally forming on the 
sides of the thing's head. 

"Dead," a voice pounds into your head. "God is dead! The 
secrets arc lost. It has slain our great Maanzecorian. ..." As 
the creature's spirit flees its dying form, so too does the voice 
leave your brain. 

When Tenebrous attacked Maanzecorian on Gehenna, 
Dleniacorus and Hananolith fled through the portal to Chari- 
amur, abandoning their deity to the dead-book. 'Course, they 
still hit the blinds, for their ties to their patron were too 
strong. When Maanzecorian fell, they followed soon after in 
horrible, unimaginably painful deaths. 

N* Because the PCs are mere mortals, they can do 


nothing to save either proxy, should they for some reason 
want to. 

THE DEA + H (c)f IT1AANZEC0MAN 

When a power dies, the side effects and repercussions are 
many. Maanzecorian was a god of knowledge, and wisps of 
his essence scatter from his dying form. On Gehenna, where 
Tenebrous stands over the murdered corpse, the Abyssal lord 
is bathed in eons of collected secrets and bits of chant. Even 
on the other side of the portal (perhaps because of the pres 
ence of two of Maanzecorian's proxies), the PCs are deluged 
by random bits of knowledge flowing to the Outlands and 
into their brains. 

'Course, the chant's decidedly useless to the heroes. With 
the vast storehouse of knowledge that comprised so much of 
the deity's spirit, the chances of gleaning a valuable piece of 
information from the meager stream of thoughts that reaches 
the Outlands is nil. It is, however, a strange experience for the 
PCs. Unless they've been through a psychic storm on the As 
tral Plane (a somewhat similar phenomenon), it's quite disori 
enting to have knowledge come unbidden into their minds. 
The chant they gain includes the following: 

? Javor favors his younger son over the eldest. 

? The source of the Tungakim River is at a place called 
Hinter-rock. 

? Karrum Nionimo keeps a magical dagger hidden in the 
bag under his bed. 

? Porcupinefish feed on shellfish and coral. 

? Madarn is against killing the big cat. 

? Shiny gray in color, chalcocite is formed at fairly low 
temperatures. 

? The Drachenfels trace their ancestry back to ancient 
Blackmoor. 

UNWELC(r)mE EYES 

If the PCs linger near Chariamur or the Rotting Oracle for 
more than an hour, they're assaulted by a violent and danger 
ous intruder: Blvastin, a beholder from the nearby under 
ground realm of Gzemnid. It seems the beholder god recently 
felt a profound disturbance - the death of Maanzecorian - 
and instructed his proxies to send an eye tyrant to investigate. 

Rather than disintegrate the PCs immediately, the be 
holder uses its abilities to slow and then charm them in order 
to gain information. The creature struggles to subdue the he 
roes (in an aggressive manner) unless they fend off the attack 
by rattling their bone-boxes in an obsequious, subservient 
way. Either way, the beholder suffers their existence only long 


? 18 ? 


enough to get the chant it 
wants. After the PCs tell the 
eye tyrant what they know 
(or claim to know) about the 
"disturbance," the monster 
does its best to send them 
to the dead-book. The he 
roes should use the time 
spent wigwagging with the 
beholder to come up with an 
escape or battle 
plan. Naturally, 
the best plan 
may be simply to 

try to give it the laugh and run away 
(as the PCs surely can move much faster 
than it can). 

? TRACKING + HE KHAAS+A ? 

This part of the Outlands really holds nothing else of interest. 
The most important thing that happens here is the death of 
Maanzecorian and his proxies, which is designed to fore 
shadow later events. The forces released by the deity's demise 
even destroy the pillar-portal in the Rotting Oracle. Once the 
PCs are ready to move on, it's easy to find and follow the 
khaasta's trail in the mud - after all, it was made by a large 
group and a loaded wagon. Even the drizzling acrid rain 
won't wash away the trail for quite some time. 

After following the tracks for a full day, the PCs find that 
the terrain becomes less fouled. The clouds clear away, and a 
warm breeze begins to drive the metallic haze from the air. On 
the next day, the heroes cross over into the sixth ring of the 
Outlands, and on the third day the PCs must make a success 
ful tracking proficiency check to continue following the trail 
across the dry prairie. The only signs of life are small herds of 
bison grazing amidst the tall grass. 

Even if the PCs fail the proficiency check and lose the 
trail on the third day, continuing in a relatively straight path 
brings them to the anthill known as Ironridge. 

fv During the three-day journey from Chariamur to 
Ironridge, the DM's free to plague the party with encounters. 
Before the PCs get too far from the old mine, they can be at 
tacked by green slime or gray ooze found in a fetid pool, il- 
lithid spies from Ilsensine, more beholders from Gzemnid's 
realm, or even a slime-covered umber hulk (a relic from the 
bygone days of Chariamur). 

IR0NRIDGE 

Ironridge is a human burg nestled in the mountains of the Out 
lands, currently settled in the sixth ring. The town's a touch 
stone for those wishing to deal with the dwarves of the Dwar- 
ven Mountain, or even beings in Gzemnid's or Ilsensine's 
realms. Its population varies from year to year, hovering 


around 3,000 folks, 
and the town's ruled 
by a council of elders 
who have a small garri 
son at their command to 
protect the burg. 

The khaasta's 
trail leads right to 
this fortified commu 
nity, where the toilmaster 
traded some of his loot 
(bottles of stolen beauty) 
for bub for his raiders. The 
brewer and his wife used the circean em 
bers on themselves, which created quite a 
ruckus. They're now perceived by others to be in 
credibly attractive, perhaps even among the most appealing 
beings in the multiverse, and sods who spy them must save 
versus spell or suffer from the sympathy effect (as described 
on page 13). 

When the PCs enter Ironridge, read: 

Iron lowers mul high walls give this place the appearance 
of a fortress more than a city, but that's not surprising in a 
burg so close to the realms af mind flayers and beholders . The 
guards at the gate give you peery glances but let you pass, and 
inside you see that many humans call kip here , though there 
seems to be a fair number of dwarves as well. 

Near the entrance . however, you see and hear a bit of a 
scuffle. A crowd has gathered around some berks fighting over 
something or someone. 

If the PCs investigate the fight, they can work their way 
past some of the crowd to get a look at what's really going on. 
They see 12 bashers (Pl/var human/Fl/var/var) fighting with 
bare hands or small knives (which cause ld3 points of dam 
age). Five more brawlers lay on the ground, injured or dead. 
As the PCs watch, however, a few people from the crowd rush 
in and join the confusing melee. The situation appears to be 
escalating, with new folks joining in faster than existing com 
batants fall. 

This is a free-for-all brawl over the brewer and his wife, 
who're trapped in the middle of the fight, not immediately 
visible to the PCs. The fighters don't lust after the beautiful 
couple; they just want to own them. Unfortunately, the city 
guardsmen (Pl/cJ human/F 1 /Free League/NG) that have 
shown up failed to break up the fight - in fact, when they 
tried, some of them fell under the spell of the circean embers 
and became part of the problem. 

Unless the PCs have powerful calming or mind-influenc 
ing magic, they'll just hit the blinds if they try to break up the 
fight. (The DM should remember that Ironridge currently re 
sides in the sixth ring of the Outlands, where all psionic abil 
ities and all spells and spell-like abilities of 7th level or higher 
fail.) 'Course, any heroes that spot the brewer (PI 16 human/ 
O-Ievel/Fated/N) or his wife (PI/9 human/O-level/Free 


CHAN+ IS +he (HIND FLAYERS 
(c)NCE prac + ically RULED + HE EN + IRE 
PRimE AND even +HREA+ENED 
+ he (c) + HER PLANES. 

D (c) E S EVERY RACE HAVE i+s DAY 
IN +HE SUN. *r IS +HERE 
S(c)fTlE + HING SPECIAL a&(r) u+ ILLI + HIDS? 


- HARRIS ef +he f A + € D 



? 19 ? 


Lcague/NG) must save versus spell or feel the desire to possess 
them as well. Obviously, wanting to own folks is wrong, and 
these feelings should seriously trouble a good-aligned cutter. 
Still, if any affected PCs somehow manage to grab the couple 
and get away, they'll have to figure out what to do with the 
poor sods (at least until the circean embers wear off in a 
week). 

If the PCs ask around Ironridge about the khaasta, they 
soon learn the chant: The reptilians did indeed visit the burg. 
Fact is, the brawl near the gate is related to something the 
khaasta traded to a couple of townsfolk (though the PCs can 
probably guess that on their own). But the creatures left, re 
portedly for the realm of the Norns - a journey of about four 
days. 

If the PCs choose to stay in Ironridge for a time, they 
quickly learn that the Redmarch Inn is a fine establishment to 
get a meal, a place to sleep, and a bit more of the local chant. 
It seems the burg's got its share of problems, what with the 
occasional wandering beholder or illithid spy, not to mention 
the tanar'ri that sometimes raid the town, take victims from 
their homes, and drag them kicking and screaming back to 
the Abyss. Folks figure there must be a portal to the Abyss 
somewhere nearby, but no one's ever found it. 

A SHAD0W 

If the PCs rattle their bone-boxes a bit too much about the 
khaasta, they pique the curiosity of Talismin Redboar, a vi 
cious and evil half-elf who calls kip in Ironridge. Tall and lis 
some with skin the color of weak tea, she keeps her night- 
black hair in multiple braids, and when she's being secretive 
she wears a drab cloak over her ostentatious street clothes. 
Her eyes are large and brown with impossibly long lashes. 
She's got a good ear for the chant, so she's sure to tumble to 
what the PCs are looking for and the profit involved in ob 
taining some of the circean embers herself. When the PCs 
leave Ironridge to pursue the khaasta, Talismin decides to fol 
low them surreptitiously. 

If the Dungeon Master would like to involve more fiends 
in "Out of the Darkness," Talismin is the key. She consorts 
with fiends more often than not; it's even said she's got a 
cambion son hidden away somewhere. More than likely, she 
knows the location of the aforementioned portal to the Abyss, 
but she keeps that dark to herself. (It doesn't play a part in this 
adventure, anyway.) Fact is, Talismin usually deals with the 
tanar'ri, but she currently works for the yugoloths, serving as 
their eyes and ears in Ironridge. 

Using the half-elf presents the DM with a number of op 
tions. She can serve as a recurring foil for the PCs throughout 
the entire scenario, following the heroes everywhere they go 
and tumbling to the truth of what's going on as fast as they 
do (or perhaps even faster). What's more, she'll try to manip 
ulate events to benefit her own ends. This might mean just 
gathering chant for the yugoloths, but it could also mean try 
ing to grab power for herself. Talismin is first and foremost 
self-serving. 


For example, she might try to steal the circean embers for 
herself at some point. Or she might wait until the PCs reach the 
tree-town of Crux (in Chapters II and III), learn of the evil 
that's troubling the burg, and then make her move. If, by shad 
owing the heroes, Talismin discovers that something's killing 
gods, she quickly tumbles to the implications and might even 
try to get a hold of that kind of power for herself - which 
means trailing the PCs all the way to Pelion (in Chapter VII). If 
the DM incorporates "Into the Light" into the larger adventure, 
Talismin might even get involved in that as well. 

'Course, the crafty and sly half-elf will take great pains 
to make sure the PCs don't realize she's following them. She'll 
use spells both to conceal herself and to watch the movements 
of the heroes. To make the PCs a little peery, though, the DM 
can let them catch a quick glimpse of Talismin in Ironridge 
and then spot her again toward the end of this chapter. Still, 
when she finally makes a move - wherever it may be - her 
sudden involvement should be a surprise. 

Until that time, Talismin will never attack the PCs out 
right, fighting only in self-defense. She might attempt to take 
out a single basher if he's separated from the rest of the 
group, but she'd need a very good reason to do so - it might 
jeopardize her position. 

THC WALKING CAS + LE 
(c)f TIAC RAHII N(c) 

If the PCs leave Ironridge and continue to follow the khaasta, 
the trip to the realm of the Norns takes four days. On the sec 
ond day of the trek, they have another strange encounter. 

You spy a dark speck on the horizon that just keeps get- 
tiny biyyer and bigger. As you make your way across fields of 
yellow and blue wildjlowers. you see that it's something on 
four legs - something huge. 

Before too long, the thing comes closer, and you can see 
that it s not a creature at all, but a gigantic stone structure on 
living, birdlike legs. As it gets nearer still, each step is accom 
panied by a low rumble and vibrations in the ground. The 
tower seems to be coming right for you. 

While walking castles are generally the homes of eccentric 
and standoffish wizards who want to keep their distance from 
others, the PCs probably can't avoid meeting up with this one. 
See, the wizard Tiac Rami No (Pr IS human/M14/N), a diminu 
tive, dark-skinned sorcerer from a remote prime-material 
world, wants to contact the group. He's used magic to become 
aware of their presence, and he'd like to ask them a few ques 
tions. When the thundering castle gets close to the party, it 
stops walking, and a shuttered and hinged window high in the 
tower wall swings open to reveal the smiling wizard. 

"Ah. hello? Yes? Please to pardon intrusion. Seen you 
gentles a group of. . . creatures with many bottles, yes? Am 
looking for these. Am looking to purchase more wonderful 
bottles, yes? Hmm?" 


? 20 ? 



While en route to their lair on Yggdrasil, the khaasta ran 
into Rami No, who forced them to surrender some of their 
cargo: bottles of stolen beauty. The wizard promptly applied 
the circean embers to his most prized possessions - six gems 
of varying type that have been in his family for generations. 
Unfortunately, he fell under the spell of the beauty, and now 
he's addicted to the jewels' finery. He wants - he needs - 
more circean embers. 

If the PCs let on that they know where the khaasta are (or 
at least where the creatures are headed), the slightly barmy 
wizard won't rest until he gets all the chant he can from them. 
But rather than try to coerce the information from the heroes, 
Rami No invites them into his castle, which consists of a spi 
ral staircase and a number of nicely appointed rooms sepa 
rated by walls of rice paper. 

The wizard treats the PCs to a lavish meal of curried 
meats and rice wine provided by invisible servants and 
charmed spider monkeys. During the repast, the wizard ex 
cuses himself from time to time and slips into an adjoining 
room, where his gems are stored in a trapped chest. Through 
the thin walls, the PCs hear Rami No talking secretly to the 
gems, which he refers to as "my beauties." But the wizard 
won't let the characters see his "beauties" under any cir 
cumstances. 

If the PCs mention that the khaasta are appar 
ently headed for the realm of the Norns, Rami No 
commands his castle into motion and sets it on a 
thundering course to that locale (at its top movement 
rate of 24). 'Course, while the Norns might over 
look a few insignificant mortals sticking their 
noses into the realm, there's no way they're 
going to let a walking castle crash in and step 
all over their groves. 

Canny PCs should realize this fact and aban 
don the castle before it reaches its destination. But 
if any bashers are still inside when the castle 
tromps into the realm of the three Fates (as 
they're sometimes known), they see Rami No 
suddenly fade away. Before they can determine 
what happened to him, other things in the castle 
start to vanish as well. Within 2d6 rounds, the 
entire structure disappears as if it never existed at 
all, and anyone left inside plummets to the hard 
ground, suffering ld6 points of dam 
age for each 10 feet fallen. (Figure 
that the PCs are 2d4xl0 feet off the 
ground.) The only remnants of Tiac 
Rami No's existence are a few well- 
behaved spider monkeys that lied the castle 
just in time and will now call the Norns' 
realm home. 

But good-aligned cutters should 
n't be helping the wizard obtain 
stolen property in the first place. If 
the PCs avoid telling Rami No about 
the khaasta, or if they manage to give 


him the laugh, they can continue their journey across the 
Outlands on their own. It's easy enough for the heroes to slip 
into small places where the huge 
castle can't follow, but Rami No's 
still a top-shelf wizard, difficult to 
hide from and unwise to 
anger. 


? 21 


can + see +He TRee 

? f(c)R +He f(c)R€S+ ? 


As the PCs get closer to the realm of the Norns, the land 
around them becomes more fertile and lush. Tiny brooks wind 
their way through gentle hills to nourish copses of trees that 
grow more and more common until the heroes find them 
selves before a thick forest. 

Peery PCs who always look around carefully find a subtle 
sign that they're on the right trail. A broken bottle lies on the 
ground, just inches away from an indentation of exposed soil 
about five inches across. A few feet away is a pool of dark, 
dried blood. 



Here's what happened: A bot 
tle of circean embers fell off the 
khaasta's wagon, breaking upon a 
stone and turning the rock into an 
appealing treasure. 
One of the khaasta 
picked up the stone, 
enchanted by its beauty. 
But the toilmaster, too, fell victim 
to the stone's sudden charm and 
slashed the sod to get at the prize. 
This is, more than anything, another warning of the danger 
of the circean embers. 


THE NORNS* REALm 

Eventually, the PCs reach the realm of the Norns, a large but 
unnatural grove within a huge forest. 

All around you arc dark, elegant trees, compact shrubs, 
and thick underbrush. Thickets of tough vegetation seem likely 
to impede your progress. No flowers bloom and no birds sing . 
yet the area has a stark beauty - the magnificence of severity 
and intensity. 

Leatherheads who plunge into the underbrush and try to 
hack their way through find themselves caught up in briars and 
thorns in ld6 rounds, suffering ld4 points of damage and be 
coming trapped and lost. If they continue to cut their way 
through, they suffer another ld4 points of damage per round. 
This happens regardless of a body's alignment or personality. 

If the PCs look carefully, however, and if they mean no 
harm to the Norns or the realm, they find a path through the 
vegetation. By moving slowly and cautiously, they can make 
their way through the area without trouble. The undergrowth 
imperceptibly parts to let any nonviolent, nonintrusive bash 
ers pass. Other than the plants, the PCs see no living things 
anywhere in the realm, though a successful tracking profi 
ciency check lets them spot the trail of the khaasta group. 
(Though the creatures are violent by nature, they were al 
lowed to pass because they respected the realm.) 

At this point, if the PCs are still successfully tracking the 
khaasta, or if they've somehow guessed that they're looking 


for Yggdrasil, it takes them about an hour to find a root of the 
World Ash. ( Find the path or similar magic helps locate the 
tree but doesn't reduce the amount of time needed.) On the 
other hand, if the PCs simply wander through the realm, it 
takes them 2d4 hours before they stumble upon a sign of the 
khaasta's passing or upon Yggdrasil itself. 

Nmi The thick undergrowth won't let the PCs reach the 
actual home of the Norns or any other significant portion of 
the realm. 


THE W0RLD ASH 

When the PCs discover Yggdrasil, read: 

After you've trudged through the briar-filled forest for 
quite some time, you notice that the trees have grown signifi 
cantly larger. Branches reach up over a hundred feet into the 
sky. and trunks surll to over 10 feet across. In fact, the path 
you 're following leads right up to a fallen tree of enormous 
si/e half buried in the earth. The trail seems to climb right up 
the slope of the trunk. 

The huge fallen tree leads to a branch of Yggdrasil, the 
plane-spanning World Ash. If the PCs climb up onto the trunk 
and continue to follow the khaasta's trail, they soon find that 
the tree disappears into a wide, round, colored portal. If the 
heroes move off the trunk and peer around the portal, they 
see nothing - the tree doesn't continue on the other side. To 
follow the khaasta, the PCs must pass through the round gate. 
They need no key. 

When they emerge on the other side of the portal, the char 
acters are no longer on the same trunk. Instead, they're standing 
on a giant branch of an unimaginably huge tree - Yggdrasil. 
Behind them is the colored portal that leads back to the Out- 
lands. If the PCs travel forward on the new branch, they find it 
grows larger as they walk, becoming well over 500 yards in 
width even as it leads them down many twists and turns. 

While the heroes move along, the thick foliage prevents 
them from seeing anything but branches and leaves, no mat 
ter which direction they look. Daylight and darkness fall in 
"normal'' cycles, and if a character manages to catch a 
glimpse through the leaves, he sees a blue sky (if it's daytime) 
or a dark, starry sky (if it's night), though never a sun or 
moon. Gentle breezes occasionally blow through the foliage, 
and, like most trees, Yggdrasil experiences seasons. During 
this chapter, it's late summer for the tree. In a month or two, 
the leaves will start to fall (giving travelers more glimpses of 
the sky), and after that the branches will be covered in light 
snow. Fact is, winter's a great time to walk the World Ash; 
that's when the ratatosk hibernate. 

For more details about traveling on Yggdrasil, refer to 
"The World Ash,'' at the beginning of Chapter II. 

The squirrel-folk known as ratatosk appear in later 
chapters of "Out of the Darkness." However, the DM's free to 
let the PCs encounter ratatosk, giant beetles, and other tree 
dwelling creatures at any time. 


? 22 ? 


? NAPHRAKS ? 

The khaasta don't actually live on Yggdrasil. A portal hid 
den in a huge knot of the tree leads to a demiplane called 
Naphraks, and that's where the creatures make their lair. The 
knot - which is more like a crater - lies about six hours' 
walk from the spot where the colored portal connects the 
Outlands with Yggdrasil. Once the heroes reach the knot, 
they see that a small town lies just a bit further along the 
branch, located at the point where two separate limbs of the 
great tree branch outward. This burg is known as Crux. 

If the PCs pass by the knot and head straight for Crux, 
skip ahead to Chapter II. Most of the residents of the town 
know about the knot, the portal to Naphraks, and the 
khaasta settlement there, so the party can easily learn where 
to go. Oddly, the khaasta never bother the people of Crux, so 
folks there don't have much feeling one way or another 
about the bandits. Some of the inhabitants even benefit from 
the khaasta's presence; the creatures often sell their stolen 
goods cheaply in town. 

When the PCs decide to climb down into the giant knot, 
they find that it's similar to descending a small, dark 
canyon. Mountaineering proficiencies are helpful, but 
bloods who bother to search the area come across a path 
(though it takes half an hour to find). At the bottom of the 
knot, the PCs find an open portal to Naphraks - no key is 
needed. But the portal's opaque, and the heroes can't learn 
the dark of what lies on the other side unless they go 


through. Standard methods like warp sense fail. 

Naphraks is one of the small domains known by a select 
few cutters as half-worlds - special demiplanes accessible 
only by traveling the World Ash. Many half-worlds are un 
occupied, while others are used as secret refuges, lairs, or 
even prisons. Some graybeards think that Yggdrasil itself (or 
herself, as the ratatosk say) creates the half-worlds. 'Course, 
a lot of these same bashers claim that the tree spawned all of 
the planes like fruit. In any case, Naphraks is only about 800 
yards across, surrounded by a veil of impenetrable darkness. 
(Refer to the map below.) 

Stepping through the portal in the knot ain't like using a 
normal portal in Sigil. First of all, it's one-way: The second 
the PCs go through, they suddenly find themselves perched 
on a large, flat boulder, with no feeling of transition whatso 
ever. It's as though they'd always been on the stone, which is 
as large as it needs to be to accommodate the whole group. 
The boulder and its riders hurtle at an indeterminate (but un 
deniably fast) speed through a seemingly endless expanse for 
several minutes. Suddenly, with no deceleration, no jerk or 
loss of momentum, the boulder simply stops somewhere in 
Naphraks (though never within one of the structures). The 
stone appears to have always been there. 

Similar boulders are scattered throughout the half 
world, though the ground in Naphraks is generally bare, 
moist soil. The demiplane also features a handful of crude 
structures and one impressive-looking tower, but no trees or 
other vegetation (except inside the bandit-king's tower). 



THE H ALE" W0RI.D 


NAPHRAKS 


Tower 


Slave *i 
Pen ! 


Khaasta 

Barracks 


Lizard 

Stables 


The Bandit- 
King's Tower 


Portal 

Out 


0 60 12 0 ISO 
Yards 


Veil 

of 

Darkness 


Bandit-King's 
' Quarters 


High-Ups' 

Quarters 


Staircase 
Guard Post 


Guard Post 
¦ Great Hall 

Lower Level 


? 23 ? 






















KHAAS + A BARRACKS 

This long, low building is constructed of roughly fitted stone. 
It has a tiny cellar with a cistern that not only supplies the 
khaasta with water but keeps the whole place damp and cool 
- which is how the creatures like it. (Where does the water 
come from? Who knows, berk?) 

A total of 68 khaasta live sparsely in the barracks. Indi 
viduals don't get much space, but that doesn't seem to bother 
them - they don't spend much time here. The khaasta don't 
worry about making their cases aesthetic or even pleasant. 
They focus more on fighting, proving their might, and taking 
what they can from the weak. 

S LAV € PC N 

Though they're primarily bandits, all khaasta in Naphraks 
take and keep slaves. They might sell the berks if they get a 
good offer or if the mood strikes them, but most slaves are put 
to work around the camp. Currently, 52 slaves of varying hu 
manoid races live in this less-than-pleasant pen. The khaasta 
care little about their own dwellings and even less about those 
of their slaves. The creatures barely give the workers what 
they need to survive, and nothing more. 

Freeing the slaves and encouraging them to rise up in re 
volt isn't a great idea. The workers're too weak and malnour 
ished to do anything but be slaughtered. But the PCs can do a 
good deed - and create a fine diversion - by freeing the 
slaves and sending them through the portal back to Yggdrasil 
(see "Leaving Naphraks," at the end of this chapter). Such an 
act gains the attention of virtually all khaasta in the barracks, 
drawing the monsters away as the PCs make their way toward 
the truly important location: the tower. 

S+0RAGC 

These two wooden shacks serve as storehouses of stolen plun 
der and any basic tools and goods needed by the camp. One 
shack also contains another wagon similar to the cart the PCs 
followed here. 

UZARD S + ABLES 

Here the khaasta keep the giant lizards they use as mounts. 
These huge beasts require a large area and a lot of food. In ad 
dition to the 10 just brought in by the raiders, the stables con 
tain 31 lizards. Slaves usually care for and feed the mounts; 
those too weak to work are fed to the beasts. The omnivorous 
lizards usually eat a slop of water mixed with roots, vegeta 
bles, leaves, and meat all mashed together. 

THC BANDI + -KING S T(c)W€R 

Canny PCs should figure that the stolen beauty would be 
brought to this tower, the most impressive structure in 
Naphraks. ('Course, the fact that the raiders' wagon and riding 


lizards still sit in front of the building is a dead giveaway.) The 
tower was constructed ages ago by a unknown sorcerer, long 
since vanished, who obviously used the half-world as his per 
sonal abode. But the tower's much larger than the practical 
khaasta need. Except for the Great Hall and the lower level, 
the creatures don't really use the structure all that efficiently. 

(p i \ H ai i Here the PCs find the stolen circean embers, the 
bandit-king of the khaasta, and the thief of charms (currently 
in the king's possession). 

But the heroes won't find the huge chamber comfortable. 
Water boiled continuously in the lower level makes the Great 
Hall hot and humid, just as the king likes it. Steam visibly rises 
through small holes drilled in the floor, and potted plants give 
the room the look of a jungle. Naphraks has no sun, but the 
plants seem to thrive without it; fact is, they're quite well cared 
for, clearly one of Haac(!)nss's excesses. His other indulgence: 
two giant iguana pets, kept here in the Hall, that receive better 
treatment than any khaasta in the camp. 

Through the hazy, warm air ami the thick foliage of this 
chamber, you see a huge reptilian creature seated in a large 
wooden chair. The armor upon his breast is a shining bronze 
plate , and a strange sort of crown rests upon his long, narrow 
head, which is marked with a long, gangrenous scar. A grand 
wooden table and more chairs have all been pushed to one 
side, obviously to make room for the hundred or so glass bot 
tles that surround this scarred "king." He pores covetously 
over the bottles , reverently clutching a short metallic rod. 

? Show the players IIlo B (on page 169). 

The PCs can try to recover the circean embers in one of 
three ways: sneak in and steal the bottles, negotiate with the 
king, or fight the khaasta. 

The first option - sneaking into the tower and scragging 
the bottles - is an extremely difficult task. Haac(!)nss is ob 
sessed with them and sits gazing at the plundered beauty. He 
occasionally gives "doses'' to his plants or iguana pets. (Re 
member that anyone viewing an affected object must save 
versus spell or suffer from the sympathy effect.) What's more, 
the iguanas will defend their master (and the bottles), and the 
king can also summon 10 khaasta guards from their nearby 
posts in one or two rounds. Lastly, the Great Hall contains 113 
bottles of beauty (stolen from victims in Sigil and elsewhere), 
far too many to sneak away with. 

The second method - formally approaching Haad(!)nss - is 
an interesting but frustrating option, though it's easy enough to 
gain an audience. If the PCs march into Naphraks with confi 
dence, the khaasta take them to see their high-up; if the heroes 
sneak into the camp, they can approach the king on their own. 
Either way, Haac(!)nss reacts well only if the PCs offer to buy the 
circean embers. Any other tactic - threats, begging, trickery, 
and the like - just pike him off, prompting him to have the PCs 
scragged and turned into his newest slaves. 

Still, even if convinced to sell the circean embers, the king 


? 24 ? 


sets a price of 500 gp per bottle and agrees to pan with only 10 
bottles at this time - no more. If the PCs truly want to bring all 
the beauty back to its rightful owners, they're out of luck. 

The final option - battle - is dangerous for several rea 
sons. Attacking the king brings the aforementioned guards. In 
two to four rounds, all other khaasta in the upper levels of the 
tower appear; in 4d4 rounds, the rest of the khaasta in the 
camp converge on the tower to slay the invaders. What s 
more, the chances are great that bottles of circean embers will 
be broken during the fight (especially by the iguanas), which 
will send raw beauty out into 
the air to "infect" nearby 
random targets - both crea 
tures and objects. 

Non . Behind the 
wooden throne, Haac(!)nss has 
piled all manner of stolen "treasure 
wood carvings, plaques, glass sculp 
tures, and the like. The booty may contain a 
few handfuls of loose coins, but the PCs won t 
find magical items or valuable gems here. The 
whole pile of stuffs worth about 5,000 gp, assuming that 
the heroes cart it all back to an interested market. But the 
DM should make it clear that it'll require a lot of time and ef 
fort to do so. 

I (iw i i Li vi On this level, a cistern like the one under the 
barracks provides water both for drinking and for boiling in 
huge kettles of black iron. The heated water rises up through 
tiny holes in the ceiling to make the Great Hall above ex 
tremely humid. 

The lower level also contains a kitchen, a pantry of food 
stuffs, a storehouse of general supplies, and quarters for the 
six slaves (Pl/d,9 human/O-level/var) who keep the water 
boiling and cook the king's food (which is actually an easy 
job, as Haac(!)nss isn't picky). The slaves also perform other 
tasks in the tower and are treated marginally better than the 
workers in the pens. 

Gi>AH> P M Five khaasta guards wait here at all times, re 
sponding to trouble when needed. In addition to their standard 
battle-axes, the guards carry javelins to hurl at intruders they 
spot from the balconies. (Each room contains about 50 of the 
weapons, so there's little chance of running out.) The floors 
also contain peep holes so the guards can see what's happening 
below. Otherwise, the rooms are quite stark. 

Hu, n Oi \"!!K These levels hold the bare, undecorated 

cases of khaasta who rank above the common folk. The toil- 
master is here (if he's still alive), as is the Wise One, a blind 
tribal shaman. The Wise One won't put up much ol a physical 
fight, but his magic still makes him a potential threat. 

Bwmi ki\ s Oi u i k This large domed chamber was once 
the conjuring and meditative chamber of the wizard who built 
the tower. The floor and walls are covered with magical in 


scriptions and drawings that are partially worn away but still 
somewhat visible. To read the runes, the PCs must make a 
successful ancient languages proficiency check, or use spells 
such as read magic or comprehend languages. 

Most of the inscriptions provide no useful information. 
Above a small alcove, however, are runes that spell out the 
word "fade." Uttering the word aloud activates a one-way 
portal in the alcove that leads to the back of a tannery in the 
town of Crux. Haac(!)nss is the only one in all of Naphraks 
who knows of the portal, but if the PCs tumble to the door 
way, it may be their only chance of 
quick escape - especially if the 
khaasta are after their heads. 

But this chamber has a secret 
that even the bandit-king knows nothing 
about. Toward the bottom of one 
of the walls, a loose stone can be 
pulled out to reveal a hidden stor 
age compartment. (PCs have the 
same chance of finding this stone as they do 
of locating a secret door.) This space holds the 
wizard's last-ditch cache, tucked away in case 
of emergency: a dagger +1\ a potion of healing; 
scroll with Mordenkuinen's lucubration ; a scroll 
with in risibility, nondetection, and forget; and a small 
pouch containing 45 gp and a gem worth 100 gp. The wizard d 
planned to use this stash to make good an escape if he were 
ever in danger. But as he's now gone and the goods are still 
here, things evidently didn't work out as he'd hoped. 

LEAVING NAPHRAKS 

All khaasta in Naphraks know of the portal that sits in a rock 
archway near the surrounding veil of darkness (refer to the 
map). If the PCs don't find the secret portal in Haac(!)nss's 
tower, they'll have to leave through the archway. The one-way 
portal is always open, so the heroes need no key, but it's 
opaque, so they can't see through it. As before, warp sense and 
other methods of detecting what lies on the other side fail. 

Anyone who steps through the portal comes out at the 
bottom of the huge knot on Yggdrasil's branch. (Only the trip 
to Naphraks involves the strange boulder ride.) 

? WRAPPING UP ? 

There's no easy way to bring this part of "Out of the Darkness" 
to a close. Even if the PCs managed to smuggle the bottles of 
stolen beauty out of Naphraks. how will they return the circean 
embers to their true owners? Most likely, the best the heroes 
can do is take or destroy the thief of charms so the khaasta 
raids will stop. And. of course, if any PCs lost their own beauty 
during this chapter, they should be able to regain it. 

In any case, once the PCs emerge from the portal in the 
knot, the folks of Crux offer rest and refuge - and that's 
where the meat of the adventure begins to be revealed. 


DAITIN +HE S0DDING SLAVES. 
ius+ WAN+ ITIY BEAU + Y. 

- +H€ BANDI + -KING 
(c)F NAPHRAKS 



? 25 ? 


Chapter ih 

CRwX 





Nothing moved. All was still on the tree, and the 
sounds and stirrings of the town had faded com 
pletely. It seemed to Turgot Hal that he could no 

longer even tell where he was. Oh. he knew he stood outside of Crux - after all. 
he'd been hauling barrels of water from Dvmvasis Ken's third storehouse. Hut 
right at this moment, he faced away from the buildings and heard no sounds. 
He felt that he could 've been anywhere. Normally, a quiet moment was a wel 
come relief in his work day. hut this time something was different. 

There'd been strange whispers bandied about of late by the folks in Crux. 
They'd said that something was wrong with the tree, that something evil had 
come. And nou Turgot felt it in the absence of movement and sound. Something 
was here. 



He turned and stoned to head back to Crux as fast 
he could. The wood of the branch was good and 
solid beneath his steps, and 
his boots were shod with 
spikes. Nonetheless, us he 
ran and ran. the buildings 
of the to uni got no closer. 
Then he felt a presence behind 
him. and he turned to look. And he 
saw it. Targat saw what had come to Cru. r. He knew then that nothing would 
ever be the same. And he also knew that he'd never live long enough to warn 
anyone. 


? the ride ? 


YGGDRASI L, n(c)w 
IS + HA + +he BIG + REE 
(c)R (c)NE (c)f+he RIVERS? 

- A CLUELESS S(c)D 


At this point, the cutters have followed the khaasta raiders to Yggdrasil. If they've 
already explored Naphraks, the heroes likely take refuge in Crux after returning to 
the tree - especially if they killed any khaasta or stole the bandit-king's circean 
embers. 'Course, the PCs might head for Crux before they journey to Naphraks. Ei 
ther way, this chapter deals with the party's first visit to Crux. 

The heroes find plenty of places to stay. The khaasta don't cause trouble in 
the town because of a deal that the town's high-up - a cutter named Veridis 
Mov - made with Haac(!)nss, the bandit-king. But Crux is by no means dull. 
Fact is, the encounters in this chapter lead the PCs directly into the main 
plot of "Out of the Darkness." Once the group enters Crux, events should 
take their own course - assuming the PCs have enough heart to help 
bashers who're obviously in trouble and enough curiosity to investigate 
strange goings-on. 

N "< The heroes are almost certain to visit Crux either before or after they 
deal with the khaasta, if only to rest, heal wounds, relearn spells, and buy more 
supplies. But if the berks don't seem likely to hang around town and get in 
volved with the ratatosk problem, the DM could just run the chapter's important 
encounters right away (starting with "Ratatosk"), or arrange some other scene to 
encourage the party to take part in the town's troubles. 


THE W0RLD ASH 

In the first few chapters of "Out of the Darkness," the PCs spend a lot of time 
traveling on Yggdrasil or exploring the tree itself. This section summarizes the 
more important chant on the World Ash. For full details, refer to The Travelogue 
in the Planes of Chaos boxed set (2603), though both the Planewalker's Hand 
book (2620) and the Planescape(r) Campaign Setting (2600) give the basic infor 
mation. 


? 26 ? 




Yggdrasil is an impossibly 
huge ash tree spawned in the first layer of 
Ysgard, though its innumerable roots and branches 
contain two-way portals that reach onto many other 
planes. These portals aren't like the kind found in Sigil, 
but more like the color pools of the Astral Plane: round, 
shimmering gates of color that are always open and re 
quire no key. The portals aren't bounded spaces, either; branches and roots 
simply disappear into them. 

The main trunk of Yggdrasil is actually part ot the Astral Plane - a lact the DM 
should remember when considering magical item plusses and spell level losses for the PCs 
while in Crux or elsewhere on the trunk. However, travelers through the Silver Void never see 
the tree. Similarly, those walking along a branch can't spy conduits or githyanki through the thick 
leaves, but if they move more than 50 feet away from the tree (say. by flying or levitating), they "fall 
off' and find themselves on the Astral. 

Yggdrasil generally has reliable gravity, and travelers can walk all the way around a branch if they 
like. But while crossing a spot where two branches meet, there's a moment of disorientation where a 
berk 
feels the pull of gravity from both branches at once, or the absence of gravity entirely. It's a good idea. 


then, not to travel upside-down. 

The inside front cover of Dead Cods contains a map showing the portion of Yggdrasil used by the PCs 
during "Out of the Darkness." 


? TH€ TRCC-BURG ? 





Nestled between two major branches of Yggdrasil, the small community of Crux has 
existed for well over a hundred years. Though only about 800 people call it home. 
Crux is a well-known stop for planewalkers on the World Ash - two large inns 
provide nice accommodations for folks passing through. 


? 27 ? 












Fact is, the whole economy of the burg is based on travel, 
transport, and trade along the tree. Even traffic with Sigil is 
not uncommon; Cager merchants pay well to have wood 
crafts and products brought from Crux to the City of Doors. 

'Course, getting the stuff from Crux to Sigil can be tricky - 
no known portals connect the two locations. But the tree-town 
contains a two-way portal to a prime-material world known as 
Ranais. Once highly populated, Ranais was devastated by an 
ancient calamity. Many of its people fled to the planes to es 
cape the death of their world; most human residents of Crux 
are descendants of those primes. But the portal's still active. So 
planewalkers looking for a quick route to Crux often use a por 
tal in Sigil that leads to Ranais, make a short trek across its ru 
ined landscape, and then take the portal to Crux. 

Despite regular contact with travelers from the City of 
Doors, the folks of Crux have few ties to any organized fac 
tions, religions, or other groups. Residents like to keep them 
selves separate from the ways of Cagers. They consider them 
selves special and make important distinctions between locals 
and out-of-towners. People in Crux appreciate a visitor's jink, 
to be sure, but they almost always keep newcomers at arm's 
length. 

Refer to the map of Crux on the poster sheet. 

vcridis mev 

Veridis Mov is the wealthiest and most powerful cutter in 
Crux. Though the town has no formal ruler, folks there defer 
to him in matters of decisions and planning. The blood is by 
no means a saint, however. Fact is, Veridis takes a percentage 
from virtually every business transaction that occurs in Crux. 
But no one minds because through his genius, the whole town 
continues to prosper, and thus, so does he. 

Veridis specializes in gathering knowledge, in taking bits 
of chant and weaving them together in intelligent ways. He 
brings together those eager to sell and those with jink to 
spend. He discovers short cuts and lanns the right Clueless 
with the right information. In short, the blood's a deal-maker 
extraordinaire, though not in an obvious fashion. 

To the casual eye, Veridis is a rich cutter 
who never seems to do anything 
but chat pleasantly with folks. 

Unlike others in similar positions 
(particularly in the Cage), he 
doesn't have a retinue of minders 
watching his back and catering to 
his every whim. Truth is, Veridis 
employs no one. And that's what 
so many bashers just can't tumble 
to: He runs the show without seeming to 
do anything or give anyone orders. 

'Course, some peery folks mark Veridis Mov as a criminal 
and the town of Crux as his shady organization. In reality, 
though, that's just screed. Veridis doesn't break laws; he 
makes them. His plans rarely, if ever, involve violence (at least 
not intentionally), and he seldom engages in combat himself 


- despite his top-shelf physical condition and training. The 
blood doesn't steal, either. In fact, Crux has a reputation for 
being very safe from cross-traders or danger of any kind. 
(Veridis even cut a secret deal with the bandit-king of the 
nearby khaasta settlement. He feeds Haac(!)nss the dark of 
portals, paths, and other helpful subjects, and Haac(!)nss 
keeps his raiders away from Crux - and might even come to 
the town's defense if needed. No one else in Crux knows of 
this arrangement.) 

Still, Veridis has developed a reputation outside of Crux 
as a criminal lord with a lot of dangerous power. He doesn't 
do much to discourage this notoriety - it helps to keep trou 
blemakers away. Some folks say he wields great magic; others 
claim he has legions of nasty bashers who'd slit a body's 
throat in an instant. Those in the know believe that the high- 
up's dealings have simply earned him a lot of powerful allies 
(which is actually probably true). 

Except for a cat named Zin, Veridis lives alone in a beau 
tiful wooden home. The house is surrounded by a tall fence, 
and within the enclosed yard is a physical training and prac 
tice area. (On top of being a genius, Veridis is a swordsman of 
incredible skill.) 

The first time the PCs encounter Veridis Mov is when they 
spot him strolling confidently but leisurely about town. He 
moves as if he owns the place, and folks who greet Veridis treat 
him as if it were true. They know he has a weakness for white 
roses and red wine and like to give him such things as gifts. But 
no one's got a bad word to say about him; people in Crux aren't 
afraid of Veridis, but grateful to him. 

? When the PCs encounter Veridis Mov, show the players 

Illo C (on page 170). 

Though not physically imposing, the blood looks every 
one he meets in the eyes, confident that his superiority is clear 
and need not be flaunted. His neat, golden hair barely reaches 
his shoulders, and his sharp-featured face is always clean 
shaven. Veridis carries no visible weapons (though he has an 
invisible two-handed sword +2) and wears no armor (though 

he has hidden magical protec 
tions). Instead, he wears a 
snow-white shirt and pants 
with a red or black vest. 

A true master of the 
chant, Veridis Mov knows 
many, many things. Of particular interest to 
the PCs at this point, Veridis knows the his 
tory of the ruined world of Ranais (as 
detailed in Chapter III), and that a dark and powerful 
presence recently came to Crux in search of something (see 
"Recent Events," below, to learn how Veridis gained this 
knowledge). But remember, Veridis Mov is no selfless, good- 
hearted hero - he cares only for the well-being of Crux. Thus, 
he hasn't yet acted on his information, preferring to bide his 
time until he can figure out how to use it for his - and his 
town's - best advantage. 


I D (c) N '+ RULE HERE, 
I'm IUS+ (c)NE (c)F mANY 

CffiNCERNED CI + IZENS. 

- V€ R.I D I s m(c)v 



? 28 ? 


HIGH P(c) I N + 

Everyone knows that Veridis Mov really runs things in Crux, 
but the closest thing the burg has to an "official" leader is 
Constable Nachen Jon (Pl/cJ human/F7/LN), a beefy, serious, 
and sincere man in his forties. The constable is a blood chosen 
by Veridis - with the perfunctory agreement of other town 
personalities - to keep the peace and defend Crux from 
threats or unwanted elements. The job is pretty simple; as ex 
plained above, most folks who might stir up trouble steer 
clear of the burg. 

Nachen Jon's brown hair is clipped very short and his 
hard, full face is usually covered in stubble. He's not in the 
least bit corrupt, but he does anything that Veridis tells him 
to. And one of his most important duties - as there are so few 
lawbreakers to worry about - is to make sure that the factions 
keep their noses out of Crux. Veridis doesn't twig to any fac 
tion's beliefs and even considers them (and their endless 
philosophical debates) a waste of time. As a result, the consta 
ble keeps an eye on any visitor who openly displays a faction 
symbol, but he comes down hard on berks who seem to be in 
terested in proselytizing or setting up a faction post. 

Nachen operates out of a small fortress called High Point. 
This wooden keep is, naturally, the highest point in Crux, al 
lowing the constable a view of the entire town. The whole 
place is literally built into the trunk of Yggdrasil, just as a 
stone fortress might be built into the side of a cliff. From here, 
Nachen maintains a force of a dozen watchmen who assist 
him in his duties. They run a small jail in High Point to hold 
wrongdoers and troublemakers until (and oftentimes after) the 
berks are tried in the Court Square. 

C0UR+ SQUARE 

The center of town is an open square used to try cases and 
settle disputes in a public forum. Veridis rarely visits the court 
unless he receives a particularly compelling plea to preside 
over a decision. He likes to leave the folks of Crux free reign 
in such matters - or at least maintain the illusion of such. 

Court Square consists of an open area Hanked by two 
small buildings (storehouses for town records, which are not 
very well kept or organized). When a criminal is brought to 
trial, the constable or one of his watchmen presents the case 
from a raised platform in the center of the court, while the 
townsfolk fill the wooden benches nearby to listen to the ar 
guments and make a judgment. 

(c) + H€R imP(c)R+AN+ SI+€S 

Not surprisingly, all structures in Crux are made of wood. 
Steep-pitched roofs of heavily thatched wooden shingles rise 
up from each home or shop. Living on a giant tree, the folks 
of Crux are accustomed to a lack of Hat spaces, and each 
building corrects the angle of the surface on which it stands. 
Thus, all of the peaked rooftops point in the same direction on 
the massive branch. 


I anni ky. The bashers here make simple leather goods from 
goat skin. The lumbering Bloi Nivin (PI/ cJ human/F2/N) runs 
the business with three young apprentices and two hired 
hands. Bloi is a major chant-monger, which essentially means 
that he likes to gossip. He finds an excuse not to get involved 
in most affairs, but he'll gladly rattle his bone-box about 
whatever a body wants to hear. 

Woodworm rs' Guild. The only guild in Crux, this group of 
craftsmen uses the plentiful supply of wood to create beauti 
ful tools, furnishings, and other items. Unlike many guilds, 
these folks have a religious reverence for their work and their 
material. The head of the guild is Marius Van, a matronly, 
middle-aged woman as sturdy as the tree she venerates. Her 
graying black hair is cut short, and she usually wears a gray 
smock and a brown leather woodworkers' apron. 

Marius is a priestess who worships Yggdrasil itself. Like 
the ratatosk, she and many other guild members see the tak 
ing of wood from the World Ash as a ritualized, solemn task 
- accepting the gifts of the divine. This devotion makes the 
guildhouse the closest thing Crux has to a temple. See. most 
residents of the burg are descendants of the sods who Hed 
Ranais. and they feel their people were betrayed by the gods 
(even though few. if any, know of the exact events that led to 
the world's destruction). Thus, they're not quick to build 
temples or churches. Fact is. Crux is decidedly nonreligious. If 
the constable didn't keep out the factions, it s likely the Athar 
would've tried to move in and take advantage of this attitude. 

Vaki.as Bol, Smith. Vargas Bol (PI 16 human/F4/NG) is the 
burg's one and only metalsmith, creating virtually every 
metal object in Crux. 'Course, these items are pretty rare, con 
sidering ihe town's location. A bald, barrel-chested basher 
with tough, tanned skin, Vargas has been told that he's just 
exactly what a body expects to find when wandering into a 
smithy. Good-natured Vargas doesn't mind. He's as quick to 
laugh at jokes as he is to offer a kind word or deed to a basher 
in need. 

1 m ky L\m. This kip serves travelers from out of town, but it's 
definitely not a place a body'd want to call home. There are 
five rooms over the alehouse, where the bub is cheap - 
though a berk gets what he pays for. 



Next to (or in front of) many buildings are 
terraces that have been worked flat, sometimes 
surrounded by an ornate but relatively impractical 
wooden fence. A careful eye notices the delicate scrollwork 
around almost every door and the embellishments on the trim 
about windows and eaves. Buildings in Crux are made by 
folks who know their wood and can work miracles with it. 

Although most structures in the town are private homes, 
pre nan v/icit nnv nf the following shoos and locations: 


? 29 ? 


Laibur'*¦" 1-iviiRV. Laibor Tal (PI/ 9 human/O-level/NG) main 
tains a livery of sorts in Crux. Though she owns no riding an 
imals, the livery has a full complement of beasts of burden. 
On Yggdrasil, that means large, sure-footed goats or wide- 
backed giant beetles. Neither's easy to control, but both are 
useful on the tree. The beetles, in particular, can crawl upon 
any surface, which is especially useful when the gravity shifts 
or disappears altogether. 

All of Laibor s goats and beetles cost about as much as a 
mule, and they can carry the same load - which is what one 
might say about Laibor herself. Her compact, sinewy form has 
more power than most men twice her size. Still, she's quite 
comely, with brown hair pulled back off her round face. Folks 
say she's more interested in animals than in people, but that's 
not entirely true. Laibor's not one to spurn a potential friend 
ship. 

flit k ' This is a top-shelf tavern and inn catering to 
planewalkers passing through Crux. The inn has eight rooms, 
most of which are usually occupied on any given night. 

I This simple building is marked only by the crude sign 
that names the place for the kind of items sold within. Targas 
Yid (PI 16 human/Fl/N), a crotchety old basher, runs the store, 
which specializes in tools important to tree-dwellers - spiked 
boots, grappling hooks, rope, axes, picks, and so on. 

1 1 ii M * v Here collectors of nuts, berries, and shoots sell 
their wares, alongside goat herders and a few nonguild crafts 
men. The area is open and unregulated, but it runs smoothly 
due to mutual respect among the vendors, long-standing un 
written rules, and territorial claims passed down through gen 
erations. 

A few merchants - the twin bakers Revis and Tyron, the 
cobbler Vengra Poole, and a mercer and tailor known as 
Wised Ayved - operate their businesses in the Market. What's 
more, Dymvasis Ren (see "The Storehouses," below) maintains 
a sizable space here to sell imported goods. Of all these folks, 
only Tyron (P1/<J human/F2/LG) is likely to get involved in 
helping the PCs investigate recent occurrences. If he perceives 
the heroes to be trustworthy, top-shelf bloods, he's quick to 
offer his aid. 

Tm Di i . mi 11 : K v Most folks in Crux set out sheets each 
night to catch a little dew - it's virtually the only source of 
water other than rain, which is very rare. But a trio of enter 
prising bashers specialize in gathering and selling the mois 
ture. These three are Rahn Jateliff (PI 16 human/O-level/NG), 
Mel 1 ifli (PI/9 half-elf/O-level/CG), and Sterkad the Saved 
(Pl/cJ tiefling/O-level/CG). The town's goat herders, in partic 
ular, rely on the three dewcollectors between rains to give 
their flocks water to drink. 

Ti'i S This building serves as a location for 

preparing and storing goat and boar meat. Not all folks in 
Crux earn their jink from travelers; some make a living rais 


ing goats or hunting the indigenous wild boars found on Ygg 
drasil. Six people work at the slaughterhouse, rendering meat 
and salting it down. 

However, one of the six bashers - a lanky, ruddy 
skinned berk named Molhas Vreid (Pr/d human/T6/Doom- 
guard/CE) - isn't what he seems. His job at the slaughter 
house is just a cover; Molhas is really in Crux to learn the 
dark of the World Ash. He and a few other members of the 
Doomguard (including a few high-ups) want to see if it's pos 
sible to destroy the plane-spanning tree. If Molhas learns 
about the tainted area of the tree known as the Warpwood 
(see "Warpwood," later in this chapter), he tries to check it 
out. 

I Vr. Zebrinth (Pl/9 bariaur/F2/N) is one of the few 
bariaur in Crux. She's called kip in the burg for only seven 
years, but in that time she's come to be well accepted. One 
reason is the strange, heady drink she makes from secret in 
gredients she gathers from Yggdrasil. Although she refers to 
her concoction as wine, it actually tastes more like a gentle 
ale, but one with a flavor like nothing else. The wine sells for 
twice the cost of other such drinks, but those who like its 
unique, delicate flavor find it well worth the price. 

Zebrinth works alone, in a small shop that also serves as 
her home. For a bariaur, she's fat, listless, and slow, and her 
demeanor is quiet but friendly. 

I Located just outside of town, these buildings 

hold goods shipped to the burg by the wealthy importer Dym 
vasis Ren (PI 16 human/O-level/N). The blood buys grain, veg 
etables, water, bub, manufactured items of metal or stone, and 
much more. He has a number of friends and contacts in Sigil 
and leans toward the outlook of the Fated faction, though he 
hasn't (and probably won't) try to gain an official member 
ship. Dymvasis is aloof and unfriendly, though he's quick to 
expect charitable help from others if he's in need - an atti 
tude sure to keep him out of the ranks of the Fated. 

? RCCCN+ cvcn + s ? 

Veridis Mov finally came upon a foe he can't manipulate, 
frighten, reason with, or even compromise with - Tenebrous. 
At first, the Abyssal lord came to Crux simply because of 
chant about all the knowledge packed into Veridis's brain- 
box. Tenebrous secretly picked the blood's mind dry in short 
order, gaining a few bits of valuable information but learning 
nothing about his missing wand. Still, the fiend quickly 
tumbled to the town's usefulness as a base of operations - 
after all, it crouched in Yggdrasil, the plane-spanning tree. 
Tenebrous eventually departed Crux to search for his wand 
elsewhere, but he left behind agents: a number of visages, 
placed secretly throughout the burg. 

No one in Crux has the dark of any of this. Veridis knows 
only that a great wicked presence came to town in search of 
something and left without finding it; the blood's got no clue 


? 30 ? 



It shouldn't take a graybeard to figure out that Mar 
ius worships Yggdrasil. Fact is* if asked, she goes on even fur- 


'Course, people in Crux still flap their bone-boxes about 
the ratatosk. Current chant in town is that the creatures re 
upset about something. While not many folks care all that 
much about their welfare, it's widely accepted that the ratatosk 
have some sort of communion with Yggdrasil. Marius Van and 
the rest of the Woodworkers' Guild are particularly bothered 
by the creatures' unease (and actually have a great deal more 
respect for ratatosk than do other residents of Crux). 

No one realizes the dark of the disturbances, but a pres 
ence of godlike power and ineffable evil like Tenebrous just 
can't come to a place like Yggdrasil without being felt. The 
tree itself stirred when he appeared, his proximity polluting 
the World Ash so deeply that it'll take many seasons to re 
cover. The ratatosk, too, quickly learned that something was 
amiss. Thus alerted, they began to notice the movements of 
the visages. Always curious and protective of the tree, the 
squirrel-like humanoids observed that the visages seemed to 
center their activity in Crux. 


SNOOPING AROUND 


While in Crux, the PCs hear about the ratatosk situation ca 
sually at first, probably from a patron in a tavern or a 
merchant on the street: "Yep, them squirrely ratatosk 
sure seem upset lately, don't they?" 

Only by asking around do the heroes tumble to 
any substantial information. Most townsfolk are used to 
running into ratatosk if they stray far from Crux, 
though the creatures usually keep their distance. Lately, 
though, the ratatosk are visibly agitated, running up 
and down the tree with wild, staring eyes. Just last week, 
a ratatosk came into Crux, manically leaping from rooftop 
to rooftop and shouting "Dark times! Dark things! Dark 
people!" for 20 minutes before scrambling off again. Another 
creature was found slain, viciously hacked apart near Dym- 
vasis Ren's storehouses - and no perpetrator's been found. 
(The ratatosk are so irritating that folks don't care about it 
a great deal, but it's still worrisome.) 

Lucky or persistent PCs are referred eventually to 
the Woodworkers' Guild, and specifically to their 
leader, Marius Van. If the heroes ask, Marius gives her 
own opinion of the recent troubles: 

"Here on the Great Life giver - that's the 
holy mother Yggdrasil - we hare to leant tit 
lire with the ratatosk. They're the shepherds 
and protectors of the mother's trill. Bat trunk 
and tree, they can he exasperating! Ah , well. No 
one can truly grasp the upper branches or the 
deepest routs of the World Ash. No one can 
know all of her secrets. She makes use of the 
ratatosk , the great eagles, the beetles, and even 
humble folks like us." 


that his own head was probed in the process. As for the vis 
ages, other townsfolk have begun to feel that something's 
wrong in their burg, but no one has any details. Veridis alone 
suspects that some kind of evil influence still lingers in Crux, 
but even he doesn't know what it is. 

Nmi In this chapter, the PCs become aware only of the 
poisonous effects of Tenebrous on Yggdrasil itself. They won't 
encounter any visages until Chapter III, "Masks." For more 
details on the visages, refer to the monster description in the 
Appendix of this book. 


? RA+A+esn ? 


The ratatosk - squirrel-like humanoids that live on Yggdrasil 
and consider themselves protectors of the sacred tree - have 
long since given up on Crux. When the town was first built, 
the creatures got into everything, causing all sorts of chaos 
and minor calamities. But the folks of Crux were so stubborn 
and stern that the ratatosk 
eventually went away. 

They no longer ha 
rass the residents or 
even stray into the 
town. Fact is, for 
the most part, the 
tree-natives try to 
pretend that Crux • 
doesn't exist. 


? 31 ? 




ther with her philosophy that the World Ash is the creator and 
supporter of the multiverse. She believes that the planes 
sprung into being as the tree stretched her branches, and that 
Yggdrasil still supports the planes today, keeping them poised 
above the eternal void. 

On the subject of the ratatosk, she tells the PCs that the 
leader of the nearest pack is Glittereye, and that he, like Mar 
ius, is a devotee and channeler of the tree's power. If the he 
roes don't seem to bear Glittereye or Yggdrasil any ill will, 
and if they treat her with respect, Marius even directs them to 
the ratatosk high-up's lair. 

HUN + ING RA+A+0SK 

If the PCs go looking for ratatosk, they're easy to find - even 
easier if Marius gave them directions. Fact is, if the heroes 
leave the boundaries of Crux and wander along Yggdrasil's 
branches, they're soon harassed by upset ratatosk, whether 
they were looking for the creatures or not. (This didn't happen 
when the party first approached Crux because the ratatosk 
had figured the adventurers were simple travelers with no 
connection to the troubled tree-burg.) 

Not long after the PCs get out of sight of Crux, two 
ratatosk appear on small branches above them and begin to 
taunt them (as per the spell). The creatures speak their own 
language and that of birds, but because they live so near to 
Crux, they also know a little of the planar common tongue, 
which they speak in a halting, broken manner. As many 
planewalkers know, ratatosk love to vex trespassers with 
gentle riddles, but the pair that confronts the party offers 
riddles that are dark and dreary, such as: 

Moon and stars arc my friends, 
hut darkness is my mother. 

The sun is bitter enemy , 

Chasing me as no or her. 

[Answer: night.] 

All around sleepers, but never sleeping. 

All around thieves, but never thieving. 

Makes men blind, but cannot be moved. 

Hides men's sins, but cannot be touched. 

[Answer: darkness.] 

River that flows when death is near, 
diver of life, your arrival brings fear. 

[Answer: blood.] 

The PCs receive better treatment if they manage to an 
swer the riddles, but they really score points with the ratatosk 
if they ask for Glittereye - the wise priest of the pack. If this 
happens, the two ratatosk spend a few minutes quizzing the 
heroes on their intent (though they also try to tumble to it on 
their own) and then lead the group to their high-up's lair. 

The real challenge in this encounter is communication. 
The two squirrel-folk know only a smattering of common, so 
unless the PCs can (magically or otherwise) communicate in a 


way the ratatosk can understand, the sods face a good deal of 
misunderstanding and confusion. These peery little tree- 
dwellers will not give the PCs the benefit of the doubt. 

THE LAIR 

The ratatosk guide you along the tree, though their nimble 
climbing-claws and ability to glide from branch to branch 
allow them to move much faster than you. Whenever they get 
too far ahead, they stop and wait impatiently, muttering obvi 
ously derisive comments now and then about your speed. 
Eventually, the ratatosk reach a small opening in the side of 
Yggdrasil. a space just large enough for someone to crawl 
through. A heady . sweet smell comes from the opening , but 
it's very dark. 

This is the ratatosk lair. It consists of a narrow tunnel - 
lovingly dug through the bark and into the sweet sapwood - 
that leads to a single, open den. (Food is stored in a cache 
hidden nearby.) Although most PCs should be able to squeeze 
through the narrow passage, bariaur and exceptionally large 
bashers probably can't. What's more, the tunnel is wet and 
sticky with sap from the tree, but the ratatosk ignore it; they 
don't seem bothered by the way it gums up their fur. 

The sap, however, is mildly poisonous, inducing halluci 
nations and delusions in all beings who possess human blood 
- humans, half-elves, tieflings, and aasimar. Any such berk 
who passes through the tunnel must make a saving throw 
versus poison (humans suffer a -2 penalty to the roll) or be 
affected in 2d4 rounds. And for an affected sod, the world be 
comes a very different place. Colors change and even begin to 
peel away from the object they're associated with, spinning 
freely through the air. Things change in their perspective and 
importance; a friend's speech seems small and distant, while a 
small knot in the tree grows vastly important. Nonliving ob 
jects speak to the victim, taking on personalities and strange 
mannerisms. These delusions and visions last for 3d6 rounds. 

Within the lair are four ratatosk, including the high-up 
called Glittereye. None of the creatures understand ground 
dwelling humanoids very well anyway, so they won't really 
notice the odd behavior of sods affected by the sap. However, 
if the PCs don't quickly start talking about a subject that in 
terests the squirrel-folk, they're kicked out of the lair. 

Glittereye, fortunately, can speak planar common quite 
well. Unfortunately, he's on the verge of becoming a complete 
barmy. The influence and presence of Tenebrous and the vis 
ages have tainted this portion of Yggdrasil, and, therefore, 
those most in tune with the tree. The pack leader's condition 
won't help the party's attempts at communication. What's 
more, Glittereye's condition makes him seem depressed and 
cynical, especially to canny PCs who know that ratatosk are 
generally playful. And because ratatosk always imitate their 
leader, the other squirrel-folk in the lair act the same way. 

If asked about Yggdrasil or his own somber mood, Glit 
tereye presents his despondent view to the PCs, using the 
ratatosk speech pattern of jerky sentence-bursts: 


? 32 ? 


-See, it's this. Like this. Dark-ness. Sotne-thing foul. 
Foul. Some-thing 's come. Come to. Might-y mnth-er tree. Ver- 
y nast-y. She's not hap-py. Not hap-py. Not. Wants it gone. 
Ground-ling city. Ver-y. Very? bad. Crus. " 

Glittereye doesn't know exactly what's happened to 
Crux, but if the PCs seem curious, he takes them out of the lair 
and leads them to a place he calls Warpwood. The rest of the 
ratatosk - the other three from the lair, plus the two escorts - 
accompany him. 

? ies + u++lc m(c)D r(c)n ? 

This is truly what a body'd call a random encounter. As Glit 
tereye takes the party to Warpwood, they run into a pen- 
tadrone - a member of the recent Great Modron March that 
got lost. The sod now wanders the planes with no idea of how 
to get back to Mechanus. Ironically, it's been drawn somehow 
to Tenebrous's presence - and thus this area of Yggdrasil - 
because of the fiend's time spent as Primus (refer to the Intro 
duction for more details). 

The pentadrone has resisted the strange urges and feelings 
of loneliness and depression that sometimes drive lost modrons 
mad. Though assaulted at eveiy turn by random disorder (the 
rwisting, gnarled branches of the World Ash are no comfort to 
one used to the well-tooled repetition of the gears of Mechanus), 
it remains firm in its resolve and true to its orders. The modron 
isn't a rogue; it's just lost. Thus, it's kept its original shape. 

About halfway between the ratatosk lair and Warpwood, 
the group encounters the modron, which addresses them. 

"Change of direct ire for non mod ran umts, you hear as Q 
creature that resembles a starfish on thin legs teeters awk 
wardly toward you along the wide branch. "Help this unit re 
turn to native Mechanus immediately , it stares. That is all. 
Its large eves look at you expectantly. 

If asked, the pentadrone reveals that it was part of the 
last Modron March, and, although it senses a presence of hn- 
portance on Yggdrasil, it must return to Mechanus. What 
presence? "Insufficient data," it replies. "Such is not for this 
unit to question." 

'Course, taking this lost modron home might not be In 
the player characters' power, or they might just refuse. In any 
case, unless the heroes agree to drop what they're doing and 
take the pentadrone to Mechanus, the modron points at them 
and asks: "Current duties for these units?" No matter how the 
PCs answer, the modron says, "This unit will accompany." 
Why? "Current status requires further observation of 
anomalies in environment." Basically, it wants to figure 
out what's going on. 

Naturally, the pentadrone and the ratatosk are not 
compatible. It ignores their taunts ("Ooh, look! Look at the 
boxy-body!"), but it won't brook any physical assaults - not 
even playful ones. 


While the pentadrone accompanies the party, the DM can 
decide its actions. For the most part, however, it observes and 
tries to analyze each situation as best it can. Despite wanting 
to return to Mechanus, the modron really does want to learn 
the dark of the strange presence that has attracted it to Ygg 
drasil. Even this analytical creature senses that something's 
not quite right. From time to time, it asks the PCs if they're 
currently able to take it to Mechanus. It takes refusal without 
emotion, but in its own structured, ordered way, the pen 
tadrone grows antsy - it's a modron on the edge. 

If the group gets into a combat situation or other danger 
ous circumstance, the pentadrone fights only in its own de 
fense. Flowever, if the PCs actually decide to take it back to 
Mechanus, it defends them as best as it can along the way. 
This isn't gratitude, but merely logic. 

Nrm Canny PCs might decide to keep the modron in the 
party. After all, it can sense the presence of whatever's trou 
bling the World Ash (though, naturally, the heroes still won't 



? 33 ? 





# 


know the source of the disturbance). Even if the cutters don't 
tumble to this idea until long after they let the pentadrone go 
its own way, the Dungeon Master should let them find the 
modron again if they try. Such top-shelf thinking should be 
rewarded. 

On the other hand, if one of the players is already running 
a rogue modron character, the DM should probably skip this 
encounter entirely. Otherwise, the pentadrone'll focus only on 
eliminating the rogue, and the rogue'll focus only on fleeing. 

? WARPW00D ? 

Whether or not the PCs encounter the lost pentadrone, Glit- 
tereye eventually leads them to Warpwood. Peery or obser 
vant cutters notice that the ratatosk leader's depression and 
dark mood worsen as they travel from the lair to Warpwood. 
Glittereye creeps slowly along the tree, and it's obvious that 
the other ratatosk try to mimic him (though they have appar 
ent difficulty in moving at such a somber speed). When the 
group reaches Warpwood, the ratatosk seem edgier than ever, 
and Glittereye is practically weeping. 

f inally, you arrive at a spot where Yggdrasil rakes on a 
very different look. The wood in this area is rippled in a huge 
circular pattern, as if something large and heavy had been 
dropped on the branch and the hark had reacted like water, 
moving outward in tiny wares. You can't tell ij the bark's now 
at rest or if it's still rippling just beyond the range of your per 
ception. But the most disturbing thing about this strange warp 
ing is the intense blackness that makes up its center. 

Warpwood is the spot where Tenebrous crossed over 
from the Astral Plane onto Yggdrasil. While fiends, evil prox 
ies, and even a wicked avatar or two occasionally make their 
way along the World Ash's roots and branches, they rarely (if 
ever) have such a corruptive effect. But when Tenebrous 
stepped onto the branch, he was fairly dripping with rancid 
negative energy - the force that had revived him from his 
supposedly eternal slumber. Fact is, a detect evil spell or simi 
lar magic reveals that Warpwood isn't a source of evil, but 
rather its effect - the wake of evil's passing. 

If asked, Glittereye offers what he knows: 

"This ap'peared. Man-y sea-sons. Many. Ago. Is ma 
king. Making tree. Mother tree. Sick." The ratatosk seems to 
be speaking with great effort. "What comes to the tree comes. 
To those in touch with her." As his speech slows and becomes 
more regular, a darkness comes to hi s eyes. "Evil has come to 
the tree. '' 

With this, Glittereye suddenly lunges at the nearest 
player character. The ratatosk leader has lingered too close to 
the Warpwood for too long, unleashing the evil embodied in 
the bark. This transformation should startle and unnerve any 
cutter who knows anything about ratatosk - and maybe any 


that don't. Simply put, Glittereye has been corrupted by the 
Warpwood's influence. Now barmy and maniacal, he seeks to 
destroy all living things, starting with the PCs. (In his addled 
brain-box, the ratatosk leader is acting in Yggdrasil's name.) 

While corrupted, Glittereye is immune to charm spells and 
similar mind-affecting magic. Spells such as remove curse and 
dispel evil rid him of the corruptive influence, though dispel 
magic has no effect. If the PCs do nothing to tiy to "cure" him, 
Glittereye returns to normal on his own in 5d 10 hours. 

Unfortunately, the poor sods must deal with the crazed 
ratatosk right now - not to mention the rest of his pack. The 
five other squirrel-folk follow their high-up's example and 
(somewhat reluctantly) attack the party. The PCs probably 
should find a way to subdue or drive off their attackers with 
out killing them. 

At some point during the battle, clever heroes might real 
ize that if what Glittereye said is true, then Crux is in trouble. 
After all, Marius Van and the rest of the Woodworkers' Guild 
are also in touch with Yggdrasil and might also be corrupted. 
And that is, indeed, what's happening back in the tree-town. 

? back +(c) crux ? 

Whether or not the PCs tumble to the trouble facing Crux, 
sooner or later the bashers probably head back to town. Un 
less they've lingered with the ratatosk for a very long time, 
they most likely stumble right into the mess. 

Just as you 're reaching the edge of Crux, you notice that 
smoke is rising from one of the buildings! You quickly realize 
that the noxious fumes are pouring out of a window in the 
Woodworkers' Guild , and cries of surprise and pain can be 
heard within . 

Inside the guild building, Marius Van has just dumped oil 
all over the floor of the main workroom and set it ablaze 
(having first cast protection from fire on herself). Like Glitter 
eye. her communion with the tainted tree has made her sud 
denly homicidal. To make matters worse, five woodworkers 
are trapped with Marius in the burning building, and if the 
PCs wait until the town guard arrives, a number of the poor 
sods'll probably be dead - either from the smoke and flames 
or from Marius's cudgel and spells. 

Any PCs who enter the Woodworkers' Guild must make a 
saving throw versus poison. The fire is spreading quickly and 
creating a lot of smoke, and PCs who fail their save are over 
come for ld2 rounds with coughing and choking. After that 
period, they must make another saving throw each round or 
suffer the same fate (though they now can gain a +1 bonus to 
a roll by covering their mouth and nose with cloth, or a +2 
bonus by using wet cloth). If a PC fails three saves in a row, he 
passes out from smoke inhalation and dies unless taken out of 
the building within 3d4 rounds. 

Regardless of saving throws, the fire and smoke impose a 
-1 penalty to attack rolls and similar activities attempted by 


? 34 ? 


anyone in the building. There's also a 20% chance per round 
that ld3 sods (woodworkers or PCs) are subject to falling, 
burning rafters or rapidly increasing flames, either of 
which inflicts ld6 points of damage. 


At some point during the 
battle, show the players Hlo 
D (on page 170). 



(T1ARLUS VAN is 
+HE LINCHPIN 
AR0UND HERE. 

why, |'D WAGER 
+ ha+ WI + H0U+ HER. 

+ HE GUILD'D 

PRE + + Y (TIUCH 

FALL APAR+ . . . say, 
d(c) Y (c) U SFTIELL S m (c) K E ? 


Marius, meanwhile, does 
her best to kill everyone around 
her. 'Course, she's normally a 
peaceful priestess and doesn't 
have an arsenal of offensive spells 
ready. Note that pass plant allows 
her to slip into Yggdrasil and 
reappear anywhere else on the tree, 
and she uses this trick to es 
cape if necessary (and if 
she's able). If Marius does 
escape, the people of Crux - 
particularly the guild mem 
bers - mount a search to 
find her and help her over 
come her problem. The crazed 
priestess uses this time to strike 
again, especially against any PCs who 
attacked her. 

Luckily, the corruptive effect is temporary and localized; 
the contamination of the World Ash extends for only a few 
miles. Marius, Glittereye, and other local priests of the tree re 
turn to their senses in 5dl0 hours. But it's likely that the 
Warpwood will never completely fade from the tree, even 
though its influence on priests of Yggdrasil will never rise to 
such an extent again. 



- RAC H N € S SIL. 
a W(c)0DCRAF+€R 


to strike. In the smoke of the burning building, Talismin's knife 
might find many waiting backs; failing that, she tries to trap 
the heroes in the flaming structure until they die. 


veridis mev 

Veridis knows only a bit about what's 
going on. For instance, while he's 
known for some time that the Warp 
wood existed, he didn't realize how strongly 
it could affect those close to Yggdrasil. Still, 
he suspects that the blackened area is somehow 
tied to the evil presence he senses in Crux. 
Because he doesn't have the dark of 
it all, Veridis keeps his eye on everything 
that happens, refraining from any direct 
action unless a body looks his way. He's 
become very peery since Tenebrous's 
visit, and he doesn't want outsiders like 
the PCs poking around in what he 
considers to be his affairs - at least, not 
until he has more need of their help (in 
Chapter IV). 


THE KHAAS+A 

If the PCs have already visited Naphraks but failed to wipe out 
the khaasta completely, these reptilian bandits are still present 
and most likely piked off at the heroes for giving them the 
laugh. Any cutters who wander away from Crux leave the 
protection that Veridis gives the burg, and an out-of-town en 
counter with vengeful khaasta is always a risk. This is espe 
cially true if the bandit-king Haac(!)nss still lives - and even 
moreso if the PCs stole any of his circean embers. 


? IN + € RFC RC NCt ? 

As the PCs explore Crux, deal with the ratatosk, and visit 
Warpwood, a few other factors probably conspire to make 
their lives more difficult. The Dungeon Master's free to intro 
duce any or all of the following obstacles. 

TALISmiN 

Chances are good that this cross-trading half-elf is still fol 
lowing the group. If she hears of the Warpwood, she might 
check it out closely to determine what really happened there 
- her employers'd certainly be interested in learning how 
something like the World Ash could be corrupted. Talismin 
might even experiment on a poor sod or two, trying to expose 
them to the Warpwood's perverse influence. A few ratatosk or 
even a PC would do very nicely. 

If Talismin decides that the heroes need to be eliminated, 
she seizes upon the fight with Marius Van as an opportune time 


? Af+€Km a+h ? 

This is only the tip of the iceberg. Warpwood's merely a side- 
effect of the great evil that has come to Yggdrasil (Tenebrous) 
and the lesser evil it left behind (the visages). And before the 
PCs can catch their collective breath, the visages make their 
presence known in Crux (in Chapter III). 

If Marius Van is recovered alive, she's deeply disturbed 
by what happened to her. She falls into a state of severe de 
pression over her actions and the horrible truth that the World 
Ash itself has been tainted. The PCs can either help Marius 
confront these troubling realizations or just leave her to her 
own sad fate. 

Encounters with ratatosk in the rest of "Out of the Dark 
ness" are likely to resemble those in this chapter - the squir 
rel-folk will be depressed or agitated. But if the PCs managed 
to avoid offending the creatures - and perhaps even found a 
way to help them - ratatosk in later chapters may very well 
react better to the party from now on. Word travels last 
among their kind. 


? 35 ? 



Interlude I 



BWIfTlB. INDEED. 

H 0 W C0ULD I HAVE evER +H0UGH+ 
+ha+ SUCH A CREA+URE 

m!GH4- H0LD mY WAND? 

- TCNCBR0US 


Ever since the Great Modron March, Tenebrous 
just had to wonder at his own thinking at times. It 
had become so . . . orderly. The years he spent as 

Primus had tainted him, and that was something he'd never forgive nor forget. 
He vowed that the modrons would be among those who would suffer his 
wrath. Yet so many others held higher positions on the "list." 

The withered, shadowy form that now served him as his body settled 
into his throne of bone. Tcian Sumere, his fortress deep within the Nega 
tive Energy Plane - otherwise known as the Bottom of the Multiverse - 
had served him well since he fled the dreaded stupor of the Astral. Per 
haps even after he'd destroyed hated Kiaransalee, he thought, he might shape a 
permanent realm here. This place of cold darkness and eternal hunger fit him 
well. A smile came to his dark lips, a grin that no man could - or should 
- see. 

Much had happened since he escaped from the 
Silver Void, since he was reborn into this sem 
blance of life and god- 
hood. How had it all 
begun? Tenebrous re 
membered stirring from 
his deathlike slumber as a 
cascade of negative energy had 
infused his shriveled limbs with dark un 
life. He hadn't questioned the strange turn of events that led to his resurrection, 
but merely clawed his way onto the plane-spanning tree, Yggdrasil, and called 
to him his closest servants. 

At that time, of course. Tenebrous hadn't yet realized that his fiendish at 
tendants had been slain in the same conflagration that robbed him of his realm 
and his life. And yet they still heeded his call. As he had been given life 
by negative energy, so did Tenebrous use his own power to 
bestow upon his servants the gift of a second life. Their 
writhing, undead bodies pleased him, though he knew that 
their tanar'ric forms would not last. The former Abyssal lord 
had inadvertently created a new type of being - an undead 
fiend. Much later, he would call these creatures visages , bless them 
with special talents, and send them out to gather information. 

Ah, information. For so long, the "chant," as they called it, was the focus of 
his new life. Tenebrous needed to learn all he could about what happened after 
his defeat, the location of his prized talisman, and the best method of exacting 
his vengeance. He settled most of his servants into their new home at Tcian 
Sumere, but he'd also stationed a handful on the World Ash - for the tree would 
be his tool. Tenebrous knew that no one would expect an evil, undead power 
and his minions to make their way about the multiverse on Yggdrasil. Thus, the 
tree would serve him perfectly. 

Tenebrous then set to finding the Wand of Orcus, for without the nourish 
ment of its wicked energy, he feared his new form might not long endure. Be 
sides - the wand was his, and he would possess its power anew. Ancient lore, 
stolen from many sources, led him to the dusty Arborean layer of Pelion, where 
he found a mighty force of destruction known as the Last Word. What's more. 
Tenebrous learned - at last! - that his missing wand lay in the Paraelemental 
Plane of Ooze. So to Ooze he went. 

That blithering, simpering Bwimb creature, Tenebrous mused, remembering 
what had happened when he'd arrived. Baron of Ooze indeed. He disgusted me. 
He did nothing but beg for his life. It was a pleasure to kill him. The multiverse 
is better off without such weaklings. Ah, but what did he care about making 
things better? 


? 36 ? 



In any event, Tenebrous 
had been misled. The Wand of Orcus 
wasn't there at all. 

But the undead deity refused to call off the search. 

With his newfound power, nothing could stand in his way. 

One day he would find his wand - one day soon. And 
yet, Tenebrous was smart enough to realize the danger of 

being discovered before that day could come to pass. Though his visage servants 
were useful spies, he needed a way to observe the whole of the Great Ring from a 
distance. His plan to do so took him to Mechanus, where he murdered and replaced Primus, 
patron of the modrons. He then commanded the modrons to begin a march around the Outer 
Planes, even though the next such trek wasn't supposed to occur for some time. 

During this march, the modrons uncovered the dark of many subjects, and Tenebrous gathered in 
formation on a level beyond even his greatest hopes. His focus was narrowing. Through the modrons, he 
learned that the Wand of Orcus rested somewhere on the Lower Planes, and that it had been hidden 
away 
after his demise by two drow slaves. 

Finding the pair, however, proved difficult. Maanzecorian. the illithid keeper of secrets, knew that one 
of the slaves still dwelt in Kiaransalee's realm. Tenebrous ripped that knowledge from its mind before he 
uttered the Last Word and destroyed the essence of the illithid god. Its entire Gehennan realm boiled 
away 
upon the deity's death, but Tenebrous escaped before he himself was consumed. 

Still, Tenebrous needed more. Where was the other slave? Where else might he uncover the knowl 
edge of the cosmos, the secrets that would lead him to his wand? Perhaps the lesser creatures of the 
planes 
would know. The noctrals of Mount Celestia? The fiends? The observers? What of the mysterious 
Keepers? 
No, there simply wasn't enough time to hunt down numerous individuals scattered across the 
multiverse. 


Tenebrous needed more potent sources of information. 

The power Camaxtli was said to know many secrets. He claimed, in fact, to 



know them all. 

"Let us see, then," Tenebrous muttered 
aloud, "how well you can keep 
them, littld god-" 





Chapter III; 
musics 


By that rime, it was all over. m 

"Over?" I asked. ~How could it he over?" 

"There uuts nothing more. It ivas just - over. " Imeskam looked at 
me, shaking her head slightly, her face all scrunched up. 

Could what she said really he true? Things like this don't just 
happen and then end. As I was rendered immobile by my own confu 
sion. Imeskam got up and took a cup from the nearest cupboard. I 
watched in silence, not really letting my mind process what my eyes told me 
until she sat down again - with her cup full of wine . 

Just yesterday, she'd tasted that same wine and announced that she would 


"sooner drink fhorge milk than this swill." But now Imeskam sat across from me 
and poured her drink down Iter throat in big gulps. I watched, motionless, as she 
drained her cup and smiled. 



Then I knew it wasn't over. This wasn 't Imeskam. 


? m (c) RE TR0UBL.E IN CRUX ? 

Things don't really lighten up after Chapter II. Even if the player characters fend 
off the ratatosk assaults, put out the fire in the Woodworkers' Guild, and restore 
Marius Van to sound mental health, the real danger has yet to be discovered. 
Some PCs might show interest in finding the source of the corruption at Warp- 
wood. Others might ignore it and prepare to go on their way. Either way, trouble 
rears its ugly head. Soon after the events of Chapter II, a corpse is found in a 
room at one of Crux's inns - a corpse with a horrible secret. 


BLACK IS G KAY, 
and YELL(c)W'S WHI + E. 
BU+ WE DECIDE 
WHICH IS RI G H +, 

and WHICH IS 
AN I LLUS I (c) N . 

- mUDDCSI B L U . 
a BLCAKfiR 


GC + + ING + H€ PCs INV(c)LV€D 

By this point in the adventure, only the most reluctant of adventurers will try to 
avoid getting involved. After all, the PCs have experienced several strange 
events for which they have no real answers. As soon as they discover more foul 
activity and realize that the trouble in Crux isn't over, they'll most likely be 
eager to stay and tumble to the solution of the mystery. 

Still, if the PCs need a bit of prodding, the DM can place the murdered corpse 
in the room next to theirs at the inn where they're staying. Or the body could be 
found when the heroes are in the tavern below the inn. A less desirable choice is 
to have someone who saw the PCs help with the fire at the Woodworkers' Guild 
approach the characters when the corpse is discovered and directly ask them for 
help. (This person could even be the innkeeper, Flederoth.) 


? DEAD mAN'S TALES ? 

Once the PCs arrive at the scene of the crime, they learn what's happened. A 
maid, Ashinn Ces (PI/9 human/O-level/NG), investigated a foul odor coming 
from one of the inn's guest rooms and discovered a horribly mangled corpse 
within. When the PCs show up, Flederoth the innkeeper (Pl/cJ githzerai/F3/Revo- 
lutionary League/CN) is busy trying to quiet Ashinn, who's naturally very upset. 
Because of his secret ties to the Anarchists, Flederoth hates authority fig- 


? 38 ? 





ures and doesn't want to draw 
any official attention to himself. No one 
in Crux knows the dark of his membership in the 
Revolutionary League or his position as a spy sent to 
watch over the town and learn its secrets. And to keep 
the constable and his guards away. Flederoth is more 
than willing to let the PCs investigate the murder. Fact is. 
he offers them some substantial garnish - 1,000 gp - to keep their bone-boxes 
shut and look into things for him. See, despite his desire to keep things quiet, 
Flederoth still wants to know who committed murder in his inn, and why. 

When the PCs are shown the body, read: 


The corpse lies within an old wooden chest that's part of the room's furnishings. Hath the desiccated 
Iwdv and the inside of the trunk are covered in dried blond. A human male, middle-aged and probably 
Jairlv small and thin, is folded up inside the chest. A bloody knife lies on the body, near his left hand, and 
his upper torso and neck are covered in stab wounds and slashes. 


Anyone who examines the body - even a berk with no special medical knowledge can tell that the 
sod's been in the dead-book for a number of days. Those who know the dark of such things would say 
the 
victim's been dead for three to five days. But that won't ring true to Flederoth (assuming he hears of the 
pronouncement). The innkeeper insists that he spied the poor sod going up to his room only yesterday. 
Flederoth can even supply a name to go with the bloody body - Rcnik Crothson, a merchant from 
Ysgard 
looking to start a business in Crux. Unfortunately, the innkeeper doesn't know much else about him. 

If the PCs look around Renik's chamber, they might pick up a Tew clues. Despite all the blood on the 
inside of the trunk (even the lid), there's none to be found in the room or on the floor. What s more, 
there s 
no evidence of a struggle. The room's still full of the sod's possessions, and nothing looks like it s been 
disturbed. However, if the PCs think to look for the room key, they discover it's nowhere to be found. 


THE DARK (c)f +HE mURDER 

Renik Crothson killed himself. He was mentally manipulated by one of the visages in Crux to crawl into 
the trunk with a knife and stab himself until dead. The fiend then adopted Renik's form so that it could 
move about the burg unnoticed. The visages had hoped it would take longer for the body to be 
discovered. 

If the PCs have a magical means of communicating with the dead, they can contact Renik's spirit and 
tumble to the truth of the suicide. Considering the way Renik did himself in, however, even an addle-
cove 
can guess that some other force guided his hand. But at this point, there's no way for the PCs to figure 
out 
who or what coerced him, and Renik himself (his spirit, anyway) has no idea. 


? FUR+HH I N VC S + I GA+ I (c) N ? 

With Flederoth's jink in their pockets, the PCs are obligated to do a little poking around. Plus, they re 
more 
than likely a bit curious, especially after seeing the corruptive effects of Warpwood (though they may 
not 
yet realize that both events are connected). 

One of the most obvious ways to pick up more chant on Renik is to ask around town. Course, while 
that's a canny move, the PCs have to go about it in a subtle manner. But unless the heroes have already 
aroused the suspicions of the townsfolk, no one gets too peery if the cutters are both delicate and 
shrewd 
with their questions. 

No matter in which inn the DM sets the murder, a few folks in the tavern below remember seeing 
someone of Renik's description coming and going, though no one remembers exactly when. The PCs get 
much the same response throughout town - people remember seeing Renik but don't know anything 
else. 
However, Targas Yid, the toolmaker, has more to say. 

"Yeah, I know the berk. You mean Renik. ah . .. somethin'erother-son. I just seen im yesterday. Over 
by the constable s High Paint, there. Yeah, fle d said last week that we'd git together n wigwag bout his 
bringing me some goods ta make ma tools. That 's what I do, yu know. Wal. when I seen Renik 
yesterday, I 


? 39 ? 


gave 'ini what for, 'cause he never showed. But when I said 
that, the piker jes' ignored me like I was barmy or somethin'. 
I'm agin folks brookin' their word - ya won't catch me doing 
business with that stag-turner ." 

'Course, what old Targas really saw near High Point was 
the visage posing as Renik. The undead fiends use a dark alley 
near the fortress as a meeting spot. If the PCs snoop around 
High Point, they might spy the visages in the shadows (see 
"The Mark," below). 

A S + RANGC VISI + 0R 

Top-shelf thinkers might decide to watch Renik's room. With 
the dark of the murder kept quiet, someone - perhaps even 
the killer - might poke around the scene of the crime, un 
aware of Renik's demise or the discovery of the body. 

The day after the corpse is found, anyone keeping an eye 
on the room is rewarded as a shadowy figure approaches and 
knocks upon the door. This basher is Kair-aama (PI 16 aasi- 
mar/M6/Fratemity of Order/LN), a barmy Guvner who has 
business with Renik. Kair-aama's skin is as milky-white as his 
hair, though his eyes are a piercing green. If the PCs follow 
him when he leaves the inn, they'll observe that he merely re 
turns to his small case at the edge of town. 

However, if the heroes watch Kair-aama for any length 
of time, they definitely notice some unusual behavior. See, 
while adhering to the Guvners' general philosophy, the aasi- 
mar believes that he can circumvent the order of everything 
through specific, precise rituals. As he walks around the burg 
(or, indeed, does anything at all), Kair-aama constantly makes 
odd gestures and mutters strange words. If the PCs get close 
enough to hear, they can make out that the berk's reciting 
chains of numbers, sometimes accompanied by the name of 
whatever object he's using. For example, before opening a 
door, he might hold up his first two fingers and say, "Seven, 
seven, eight, seven, door, seven." In this way, he believes he 
changes reality to keep himself safe, healthy, and prosperous. 

The PCs might really have to work to learn the dark of 
Kair-aama's activities, as he's not particularly forthcoming 
with information. He used to live in Sigil and serve as a min 
der for a Guvner factotum, but he was fired after his strange 
habits came to light. Ever since, he's lived in Crux. Despite his 
upper-planar heritage, Kair-aama no longer has any concerns 
but his own. Thus, he was interested when Renik Crothson ap 
proached him in the Lucky Lam tavern and claimed to have a 
foolproof jink-making scheme. He was even more interested 
when Renik offered him 120 gp just to come to his room in 
two days' time and hear him out. That's why he was knocking 
on Renik's door. 

The creature that approached Kair-aama was actually the 
visage posing as Renik, who'd been killed. The fiend hoped to 
lure the aasimar into a trap, so that another visage could kill 
the sod and replace him. Naturally, Kair-aama has no knowl 
edge of any of this; he continues to look for Renik all over 
town. 


The visages, meanwhile, still think that the aasimar 
would make a good victim. They didn't attack him at Renik's 
room because they suspected that someone might be keeping 
tabs on Kair-aama, and they held off until they could be sure 
of striking unseen. The fiends're willing to wait until the time 
is right. If they manage to replace the aasimar, a body who's 
been watching the sod quickly notices that "Kair-aama" no 
longer follows the same ritualized behavior that seemed to 
govern his life. 

? THE ITIARK ? 

With all the folks who spotted Renik after he'd supposedly 
been killed, not to mention the change in Kair-aama's behav 
ior, the PCs should tumble to the idea that something is killing 
and replacing the people of Crux. The heroes might have their 
eye on the so-called aasimar, or maybe they get lucky and find 
"Renik" prowling around the shadows. (By this point, the vis 
age probably knows that the real Renik's body has been dis 
covered and is laying low until it can take a new form safely.) 

Whether the PCs follow Renik or Kair-aama, they even 
tually see their mark meet with something in the dark shad 
ows of an alley near High Point. If the cutters keep watch for 
several evenings, they observe a number of secret meetings 
and finally see the true "face" of their enemies. 

Out of the darkness, you catch a glimpse of a creature 
unlike any you've seen before. The ghostly apparition is at 
least somewhat noncorporeal, with a wispy, translucent body 
that seems to have no constant form. The only thing solid 
about the creature is its head, which, while somehow giving 
the impression of festering decay, is almost entirely concealed 
by a garish mask. The jesterlike visage portrays a sinister leer 
that shows no joviality - a mockery of the countenance it 
flaunts. This is the face of evil. 

If the PCs dare to follow one of the visages after it leaves 
the alley, they might very well be surprised to see it head out 
of Crux, proceeding along a branch that the PCs haven't yet 
explored. Its path is winding and queer, but careful cutters 
should have no problem keeping up and remaining out of 
sight. 

Eventually, the visage makes a turn down a hidden 
branch that the PCs notice is blackened and gnarled, devoid 
of leaves or buds. The visages altered the limb by drawing on 
the corruptive power of Warpwood, and now the twisted, mal 
formed branch reaches into Baator - specifically, into 
Ankhwugaht, the desert realm of the Egyptian power Set. 

While the PCs watch, the visage moves along the branch 
until it reaches the spot where the limb disappears into a 
large, shimmering portal. The creature passes through the 
portal - which is always open - and vanishes. 

See, Tenebrous commanded the visages to journey to 
Set's realm and steal a rare blossom called desert's night, 
known (among other things) for its ability to restore memories 


? 40 ? 



taken by the River Styx. Tenebrous suspects that the berks 
who hid his wand away fell victim to the dark river, and 
he hopes to use the flower to bring back their lost 
knowledge. 

Because desert's night grows only in 
Ankhwugaht, the visages forced the corrupted 
World Ash to bend one of its branches 
directly to Set's realm. (Luckily, the fiends 
no longer have that power; they were able 
to twist Yggdrasil only when the evil 
taint was still strong.) But the Lord of 
Evil recently become aware of the intru 
sion and has ordered his minions to find 
out what's going on and put a stop to it. 

Nekrotheptis Skorpios, one of Set's 
proxies, has tumbled to the idea that the 
invaders might seek the prized flower, 
but he isn't sure - and besides, he does 
n't know why they'd want it. 

THE GUARDIANS 

If the PCs use the portal immediately after 
they watch the visage pass through, they 
step into Ankhwugaht just in time to be am 
bushed by three minions of Set. The 
guardians waited by the portal to keep the 
visages out of their master's realm, and they 
mistake the PCs for their foes (which might 
very well have been the tailed visage's plan 
all along). 

The moment you step through the 
shimmering disk of color, you're, 
struck by the heat of a desert. 

The sky above is charcoal . streaked 
with dusky red. Nothing but sand 
dunes surround the shriveled 
branch as it tapers to the size of a 
log and then a rung , though an 
ebony river snakes its way 
through the darkness just at the 
edge of your vision . 

Before you can look around 
any longer, however, figures 
leap out of the night at you. 
singing a sung of death. 


If the PCs merely approach the 
portal but hesitate to pass through it, . 
the three minions jump through to Ygg 
drasil and attack the group. Either way, if 
the PCs can understand the language of 
Ankhwugaht, they realize that the 
strange, dirgelike song sung by their 
assailants praises Set and describes the 




task of defending his realm 
against intruders. When the 
fight begins, the minions ap 
pear to be dusky-skinned, well 
muscled men wearing black and 
gold garments. If seriously pressed, 
however, they turn into giant scorpions 
and continue to attack. They won't retreat 
or surrender. 

If the battle occurs on the Baatorian side of the 
portal, the PCs can see their mark - the visage they'd 
been trailing - slip away into the darkness of the desen 
realm. 


? THC m I D N I G H + DCSCR+ ? 

Player characters brave enough to venture into Set's realm 
after defeating the guardians find no trace of the visage. If 
they wander around, however, it won't take long before they 
encounter more minions of Set, who patrol the area regularly 
looking for the intruders. This time, six minions - all appear 
ing as men dark of hair, skin, and eye (as above) - approach 
the heroes, but they don't immediately attack. Instead, one of 
them informs the PCs in a heavily accented voice: "Our 
master wishes to speak with you." 

While some leatherheads might be terrified by this news, 
thinking that they're going to be brought before Set himself, 
real bloods know that the minions must mean a proxy - a 
power wouldn't speak with a bunch of planewalking sods. 
And they're right, of course. If the PCs are willing, the min 
ions escort them to the temporary headquarters of Nekrothep- 
tis Skorpios (Px/d minion of Set/F 13,T 15/LE), a regal pavil 
ion made of black material. Hundreds of minions camp 
around the pavilion, which is also surrounded by an honor 
guard of 20 minions in the forms of giant snakes. 

The minions bring the PCs before Nekrotheptis, who asks 
the heroes to explain their purpose in Ankhwugaht. The proxy 
is coolly polite in his questioning, and he even offers the group 
cups of good wine and a plate of fresh dates. Nekrotheptis 
looks much like the other minions, though his dark complex 
ion and disarming eyes also give an impression of smoldering 
flames and black ashes. Canny cutters'll tell him the truth 
about the visages, and if they do, the proxy does the same. 

"These mysterious foes you describe are the reason my 
troops and I are here." he explains. "We seek to stop them. We 
believe they are after a rare power known as desert's night. 
But no one may steal from the realm of the Lord of Evil. " The 
imposing man waves his hand regally. "Return to your portal 
and begone. We have the defense of this realm well in hand. 
Look to your own lands, my friends." 

If indeed the PCs tell Nekrotheptis where the visages are 
coming from and what they've seen in Crux, the chant is quite 
valuable to him. Unfortunately, even though he manages to 


keep the desert's night safe, 
Nekrotheptis won't live long 
enough to make use of the heroes' 
information (see Interlude II). In any 
event, minions of Set escort the heroes 
all the way back to the portal to make 
sure that they leave. 

'Course, if the DM wishes to expand this por 
tion of the ride, he can throw in encounters with a 
giant desert snake or two, a pack of hyenas, or croc 
odiles, all of which are intelligent and all of which 
automatically attack any good bashers in the realm. The 
PCs might even encounter some of Set's petitioners, who're 
always looking to get ahead in one way or another in this 
harsh place. Eventually, however, the heroes run into the min 
ions and their proxy high-up and are forced to leave 
Ankhwugaht. 

? A L(c)NG TRIP BACK ? 

After being tossed out of Set's realm, the PCs probably try to 
head back to Crux. It seems to them that they can retrace their 
steps without problem. However, though they make their way 
with good speed, they don't reach the tree-burg. Fact is, after 
hours of walking, the PCs might begin to realize that they re 
ally haven't moved at all (even though the scenery's been 
changing). 

Here's the dark of it: The visages know that the bashers 
wigwagged with Set's proxy and probably learned the nature 
of their mission to obtain the desert's night. That's not some 
thing the undead fiends want the PCs to know, so they plan 
on preventing the heroes from returning to Crux with that 
chant. One of the visages secretly ambushed the heroes when 
they came back through the portal to Yggdrasil, using its lu 
cidity-control powers to make them think they were moving 
when they really weren't. 

As soon as the PCs tumble to the idea that they're not 
making any progress on the World Ash, each cutter should 
make a saving throw versus spell. Those who succeed can 
begin to walk normally along the branch, quickly leaving 
their companions behind in the foliage. They also see a 
ghostly apparition floating not far away through the leaves - 
the visage that'd been controlling their perceptions. 

Unless all of the PCs make their saving throws, those 
who free themselves from the visage's control most likely go 
back to find their comrades. That proves difficult - the visage 
next uses its power to make it seem like disembodied human 
arms and hands attack the returning heroes. But since they're 
peery now, the PCs can make another saving throw versus 
spell to avoid the new effect. This time, those who succeed see 
that the affected sods are being assaulted by their own arms 
(whichYe under the control of the visage). If a basher strikes 
one of the "disembodied" arms, he inflicts damage upon him 
self without realizing it. 

Meanwhile, any PCs still caught up in the original "can't 


H0W FRAGILE + he [711 N D IS, 

H0W EASY +e fflAKE 1 + 



? 42 ? 


get anywhere" effect are allowed new saving throws since 
they're no longer the focus of the visage's attention. Overall, 
with all the confusion, it's likely that the group gets separated 
in the thick foliage of Yggdrasil. To make matters worse, the 
visage stirs up a nest of giant beetles (the World Ash is thick 
with them) to attack the heroes. 

If any sods break free of the disembodied arm effect, the 
visage then tries to make them think that normal-sized beetles 
are crawling all over them as the giant-sized insects attack. 
Again, the PCs get a saving throw, but those who fall prey to 
the new trick believe themselves to be completely covered in 
stinging, biting beetles that scramble into their mouths, ears, 
and so on. There's a 50°/o chance that victims try to brush off 
the imaginary beetles while fighting the real ones, and a 50°/o 
chance that they ignore the imaginary insects and focus only 
on their giant-sized attackers. In the latter case, however, the 
berks have such a hard time trying to ignore the smaller bugs 
that they suffer a penalty of-3 to all die rolls, and their 
Armor Class worsens by 3. 

Only when the heroes begin actively searching for the 
visage amid the leaves does it slink away - unless the charac 
ters are addle-coved enough to separate, that is. If the PCs 
split up, the undead fiend attacks one of the lone party mem 
bers, hoping to kill and replace him without his companions' 
knowledge. 

Nn Modrons aren't affected by the visage's power to 
control lucidity. If the party includes the lost pentadrone from 
Chapter II or even a rogue modron PC, the logical cutter 
might be a useful tool in judging which sensations are real 
and which are induced. 

If the PCs didn't follow the visage to Ankhwugaht in the 
first place, the DM can use this scene any time the heroes 
leave Crux and try to make their way back. In this case, the 
characters won't know about the desert's night , but the vis 
ages will still consider them potential trouble-makers and try 
to keep them from returning to the tree-burg. 

A Time AND PLACe 
? +e CALL KIP ? 

Once the PCs return to Crux, they can rest easy for a bit, catch 
ing up on their meals and their sleep. After that, however, they 
must decide what to do next. From here on out, events in this 
chapter should be even more confusing, mysterious, and dis 
orienting. The PCs probably realize that they face an enemy 
that can control what they sense and duplicate the appearance 
of others. How can they trust anyone - even each other? 

The Dungeon Master can exploit this knowledge to add 
tension to the scenario. Seemingly suspicious activities by or 
dinary folks can lead the PCs into following the wrong leads 
and jumping to the wrong conclusions. Careful use of the vis 
ages' power can make the heroes worry if they should ever 
completely trust their own senses. 

At this point, the PCs might try to get lanned to the cur 
rent chant, poke around town, or just go to the authorities. 


'Course, going to the high-ups means turning stag on any 
deal they might've made with the innkeeper Flederoth, but 
that's a choice the cutters must make on their own. No matter 
what the PCs do, the visages are aware of their presence and 
try to shake the heroes' confidence in their own sanity. 

CURREN+ CHAN+ 

By hanging around Crux and picking up the latest chant, the 
PCs can learn (or simply overhear) the following: 

? Things still aren't right with Yggdrasil. An evil pres 
ence still seems to lurk in the area. Folks can feel it. 

? Travelers coming from the Astral report finding a great 
deal of residual negative energy (just like from the 
Negative Energy Plane) in the Silver Void. 

? There seems to be a good deal more activity than usual 
around the portal to Ranais. Nobody special - just lots 
of folks coming and going. 

? Some people in Crux've been acting strange lately - 
not all that weird, but just different. One of the folks 
said to be acting strange is Constable Nachen Jon. But 
it's hard to say, really, as no one's seen the constable 
around much. 

? A berk just back from Sigil says that Bwimb, the baron 
of the Paraelemental Plane of Ooze, is dead. Few folks 
care, wondering, "There was a baron of the Plane of 
Ooze?" 

? Rumors fly that a big-time power just went to the 
dead-book. No one knows which one or what the cir 
cumstances were, but if the chant's true, there are 
bound to be repercussions somewhere. 

The Dungeon Master is free (and encouraged) to add red 
herrings to this list. After all, folks in Crux talk about a lot of 
different things. 

SEARCHING f(c)R SIGNS 

If the PCs decide to look around the town for clues about 
what's going on. the DM should set up encounters with bashers 
who may or may not be visage duplicates. Even normal citizens 
can seem suspicious, either because of a berk's own paranoia or 
because a real visage has been manipulating perceptions. 

A fiend's mind-peel can work like this: If a PC looks 
around a building or glances down a street, an indeterminate 
figure seems to be watching him from a distance. When the 
sod moves ahead to investigate, the figure's gone. The visage 
also can make it appear that normal folks on the street glare 
suspiciously at a hero, but if the basher keeps chasing people 
who aren't there, the looks may very well become real. To 


? 43 ? 


make matters worse, the visages can cause the PCs to hear 
screams from far off in the distance, see nonexistent secret 
doors in dark alleys, and smell rotting flesh. 

Just when the heroes can't believe their own senses and 
fear that they've gone barmy, they find something real - an 
other dead body. This time, the corpse is buried under leaves 
and brush behind a building in town. The poor sod was put in 
the dead-book quite recently. Virtually anyone in Crux can 
identify him as one of Constable Nachen Jon's watchmen, and 
a few know his name - Redahl Wim. He's been stabbed in the 
back. 

THE PR(c) PER AU + H0RI + IES 

Eventually, the PCs probably go to High Point to talk to the 
constable, whether it's to give him the chant or get the chant 
from him. Unfortunately for the cutters, by the time they reach 
the small fortress, Nachen Jon's been put in the dead-book and 
replaced by a visage, his corpse hidden away in his room. 

The "constable" is interested in whatever the PCs have to 
say and hears them out, trying to play the part of the con 
cerned protector. He asks questions and tries to tumble to ex 


actly what the heroes have learned. If the berks don't seem to 
know much - in other words, if they've come to High Point 
too early in the adventure - the so-called constable assures 
them that he'll look into things. However, if the PCs appear to 
be well-lanned or to have dug up the dark of something the 
visages want to keep hidden, the heroes might be in danger. 

Peery bashers spot Redahl Wim - or, rather, the visage 
that has replaced him - watching them carefully. If the PCs 
take too much notice of it, however, the visage uses its lucid 
ity-control powers to misdirect or confuse the group while it 
slips away. 

In any case, if the PCs don't seem like much of a threat, 
the "constable" allows them to leave and go on their way, 
though they'll be watched. If, on the other hand, the visages 
decide that the heroes' time has come, the fiends attack. Refer 
to "Within the Hearts of Men," below. 

veridis mev 

Bold cutters might go straight to Veridis. 'Course, he can't 
tell them all that much. As related in Chapter II, Veridis 
knows that a force of great evil briefly visited Crux, and he 


rrfTl1 ' ' 



? 44 ? 





























































suspects that some malicious presence still lingers in the 
tree-burg, but he has no specifics. What's more, Veridis is 
experiencing something he's not used to: fear. He's lost con 
trol of his town, and he's got no idea what to do. 

If the PCs appear to have a potential solution, Veridis 
helps them (or exploits them) in any way possible. But here's 
the catch: The cutters really have to seem to know what's 
going on and what they're doing. A blood like Veridis Mov 
won't put everything on the line for a bunch of leatherheads 
or barmies. 

GIVING 1+ + HE LAUGH 

Naturally, the PCs can simply try to leave Crux and forget all 
about the trouble there, but that's not really the stuff of he 
roes. Furthermore, the visages just won't allow it. The undead 
fiends do what they can to stop the cutters from getting away. 
They don't want anyone to learn of their presence in Crux and 
their interest in Set's realm - especially not folks outside of 
the immediate area. 

If the PCs try to leave, the visages use their lucidity-con 
trol powers to make the berks think they're making progress, 
but after an hour or so of travel, they wind up back in Crux. If 
that tactic fails, the fiends use their powers to bring attacks by 
beetles, boars, ratatosk, or other bashers from Crux to stop the 
PCs from getting away. 

WI + HIN +HC HfAR+S 
? ef mcN ? 

Eventually, the visages realize that they have to eliminate the 
PCs entirely. When they decide to make their move, the fiends 
try to ambush the heroes at High Point - their lair in Crux. 
Naturally, if the berks go to High Point on their own, the vis 
ages' job is all the easier. Otherwise, the fiends must peel the 
group into coming. 

Here's how: Wherever the PCs are staying, they receive a 
written message from Constable Nachen Jon asking them to 
come to High Point to answer a few questions. Witnesses even 
remark that they saw the note delivered by the constable him 
self. 'Course, the messenger was really the visage that re 
placed poor Nachen. 

THE LAY (c) U + (c)f HIGH P0IN + 

Oi . (i Mi s/B The outer gates are made of iron - 

probably the largest mass of metal in all of Crux. These huge 
valves are usually open, though a wooden portcullis is often 
lowered behind them. The barbican is a small chamber be 
tween the outer and inner gates, and the room above has 
murder holes so guards can rain arrows and boiling oil down 
on invaders. 

1 v.i: G rhe inner gates are made of iron-bound wood, and 
they give way to a staircase leading up to the Great Room. 


Here, official dinners would be served and im 
portant visitors entertained - if such activities ever took 
place. But neither Nachen Jon nor Veridis Mov cares for that 
sort of pomp, so the Great Room is rarely used. 

A large table fills the center of the room, and long tapes 
tries (all depicting different representations of the World Ash) 
hang on the walls. If High Point were ever invaded, a foyer 
outside of the Great Room would serve as the fortress's last 
defense, with a final wooden portcullis that can be dropped at 
the top of the stairs. 

Like the entire front facing of High Point, this 
wooden tower has been built right into the side of Yggdrasil. 
It can be reached only by passing through the constable's 
office. Narrow windows let guards look over the entire town, 
not to mention launch arrows at invaders or drop water on 
fires that might be started as part of an assault on the 
fortress. 

i K These chambers serve as Nachen Jon's of 

fice and sleeping quarters. 

Twelve watchmen bunk in the two barracks, six per 
room. The accommodations are simple but comfortable. 

This small chamber is where bashers stationed 
at High Point can relax, chat, and eat. As there's no kitchen, 
the food is simple and uncooked, though hot meals are often 
brought up from the King's Table, the nearest tavern. 

These two large rooms serve as storage for 
food, supplies, equipment, weapons, and armor. Both cham 
bers are crammed full of material, some of it very old. 

THE AIT1BUSH 

Constable Nachen Jon, Redahl Wim, and one of the other 
watchmen have all been killed and replaced by visages. An 
other undead fiend waits in hiding on the stairs leading 
down to the Storage/Armory area, but it hasn't yet taken any 
sod's form. In addition to the four visages, the false constable 
has told three ordinary watchmen that the PCs are wanton 
murderers who've come to Crux to practice their bloody arts. 
The three guards have heard such horrific lies, in fact, that 
they're eager to put the heroes in the dead-book. Thus, the 
heroes face seven opponents - four visages and three ordi 
nary guards. 

When the PCs arrive at High Point, a normal guard 
greets them at the open outer gates and escorts them up to 
the Great Room. By the time they reach the top of the stairs, 
though, the berks hear the huge iron gates slam shut below. 
(The gates were closed by a visage posing as a guard, who 
hurries to catch up with the group in the Great Room.) If the 
PCs ask their escort why the gates have been closed, he 
shrugs and says, "That time of day, I guess." Canny cutters 
should be put on the alert. 


? 45 ? 


The moment the PCs enter the Great Room, the trap is 
sprung. The visage-guard coming up from behind shuts the 
wooden portcullis at the top of the stairway, making sure to 
remain on the steps. At the same time, the escort tries to grab 
the last PC to enter and throw him into the path of the falling 
gate. To do so, the escort must make a successful attack roll. If 
an unlucky hero is hurled under the portcullis, he must make 
a successful Dexterity check to avoid being crushed for 10d6 
points of damage. Even if he makes the check, the sod still 
ends up on the other side of the portcullis, facing the visage- 
guard. Not only is he cut off from the rest of his group, but he 
must also immediately make another successful Dexterity 
check to avoid falling down the long staircase for 3d6 points 
of damage. 

'Course, that ain't the berk's worst problem. The visage- 
guard uses its lucidity-control power on this lone victim, 
making the stairs seem infinitely long and extremely slippery. 
Each round, the PC must make another Dexterity check. Each 
time it is failed, he falls a certain distance down the seemingly 
endless stairs (DM's discretion), suffering Id6-3d6 points of 
damage. If it has to, the fiend pretends to be an ordinary 
watchman and fights the hero with its sword, hoping to trick 
the PC into thinking the real visage is somewhere else and 
that the "guard" isn't the main threat. 


Meanwhile, the rest of the player characters must deal 
with the ambush in the Great Room. As soon as the portcullis 
closes behind them, the PCs face two visages - the "consta 
ble" and "Redahl Wim" - and three real watchmen (one of 
whom was the group's escort). Two guards charge the group 
with intent to kill, while the third tries to subdue the PCs, a bit 
leery of dealing death even though he's been told of the 
atrocities supposedly committed by the heroes. 

Lastly, the visage hiding on the steps leading to the Stor 
age/Armory area might try to use its powers to maneuver or 
lure a single PC down the staircase so it can slay (and perhaps 
replace) him. 

WHA + 'S REAL, WHA + 'S N(r) + ? 

What really makes things difficult is that, as the guards close in 
on the PCs, the two visages in the Great Room alter the percep 
tions of the heroes. Each round, they cause the sods to experi 
ence a completely different set of images and sensations. At 
first, the PCs believe they're standing in the middle of a jungle 
that's too thick to see through. Next, they find themselves back 
in the Great Room, but the chamber's dimensions are 10 times 
their normal size. After that, the whole room disappears, and 
the bashers think they're falling through an endless void. 






WE SPIN euR WEBS 
(c)F DECEI + 

AND CAP+URE S(c)ULS 
LIKE FLIES 

F(c) R euR SPIDERY mEALS. 

- A V I SAG€ 



All PC actions that're influenced by the altered percep 
tions suffer a -4 modifier to the die rolls. For example, while 
in the jungle scene, the PCs believe they can't see the guards 
they're fighting, so their attack rolls are made at -4. 'Course, 
the three guards aren't affected by the visages' power. Every 
thing seems normal to them, and they make all rolls as 
usual. 

The PCs can try to overcome the 
altered perceptions by making suc 
cessful saving throws versus spell. 

However, because the visages 
change the perceptions each 
round, the heroes must make new 
saving throws each round to avoid 
getting caught up in the effects. 

The visages try to use their 
lucidity-control powers to sepa 
rate the PCs. What's more, the 
fiends help the guards fight phys 
ically, but only within the 
confines of the 
altered per 
ceptions of 
the heroes. In 

other words, the creatures won't 
do anything that's not appropriate to 
what the berks are experiencing at the time. 

For example, while in the jungle scene, if a PC 
thinks he's fallen into a hidden pit full of spikes, a visage 
might claw at the sod just as the victim "feels" his flesh strike 
the imaginary sharp points. 

If a visage gets a chance, it stops altering the group's 
perceptions and instead uses its domination ability to pit one 
PC against another. No more than one fiend devotes its en 
ergy to this tactic, however, for the others must concentrate 
on using their lucidity-control powers. 

SURVIVING + H € BA + + LE 

Obviously, the ambush is a difficult and deadly trap. The best 
way for the PCs to succeed is for one of them to act as a "re 
ality anchor" - one person who focuses all of his attention on 
seeing through the altered perceptions. While the PC concen 
trates on keeping reality from appearing to change, he can 
take no other actions. 

The benefit is that any heroes within 50 feet of the an 
chor need not make saving throws to perceive what's actually 
going on. Each round, the anchor makes one saving throw for 
the whole group, with a +3 bonus to the roll. As long as he 
succeeds, everyone's perceptions are normal. Furthermore, 
victims of a visage's domination power gain a +3 bonus on 
their saving throws to break free of the control. 

A modron party member would be quite helpful in this 
encounter. It'd serve as the perfect reality anchor, for its fo 
cused, orderly mind is automatically resistant to a visage's 
lucidity-control power. Naturally, if there is a modron with 


the heroes, the visages do their best to destroy it with physi 
cal attacks. 

If the PCs slay three of the four visages, the remaining 
fiend tries to give them the laugh by making its way to the 
portal to Ranais (located just outside of High Point; see the 
map of Crux on the poster sheet). If the visage pos 
ing as the constable is killed, the real guards sur 
render and ask for mercy. However, if the 
heroes manage to convince the 
guards that they're not the blood 
thirsty killers they were made out to 
be (through reaction rolls or merely 
good role-playing), the watchmen 
might help the planewalkers fight 
against the remaining visage. 

During the battle, the PCs 
should try not to kill any of the 
real guards (assuming they can tell 
which is which). The watchmen are 
of good alignment and are the 
town's protectors; they were 
simply duped into attacking 
the group. Still, if such a thing 
occurs, most folks in Crux forgive the PCs 
- as long as the dark of the visages' lucidity- 
control powers comes to light. (The Dungeon Master 
should be somewhat lenient, too.) Nevertheless, it might be 
hard for some of the townspeople to treat the PCs as valiant 
heroes if they slew any innocent guards. 


WHEN + HE 
? SmeKC CLEARS ? 

With the defeat of the visages in High Point, the PCs should 
believe they've wrapped up all the trouble in Crux. As far as 
the heroes are concerned, the fiends have all fled or been put 
in the dead-book, and the Dungeon Master should do every 
thing possible to convince them of that fact (even though it s 
not true). No matter how long the PCs search Crux for more 
evidence of the creatures, they won't find any. 

Veridis Mov shows up and thanks the player characters 
personally, giving them each a reward of 200 gp for their 
trouble. He and the townsfolk then begin to make plans to ap 
point a new constable, rebuild any damage, and get on with 
their lives. 

It's over. Time to go home. 

For the PCs, that probably means Sigil, which is a good 
thing - the next chapter of "Out of the Darkness" starts in the 
City of Doors after a considerable amount of time has passed. 
The DM can fill that time however he likes, though it would 
be a perfect spot to run a portion of "Into the Light. The 
flowchart on the inside back cover of Dead Gods suggests 
running Part Two, but Part One works just as well (if it hasn't 
been used yet). 


? 47 ? 



Chapter IVz 

U|E$SaG€ 

fHAHA^S 


DEA + H IS 
a PRIS0N. 
BU+ +he LIVING 
ARE l+S 
PRIS0NERS. 

- A DUS + IUCN 
PR0VERB 


"Yes. well, don't you go worryin' 'huut ui Rotting 
Jack. now. My life's pretty good here, me bein' a 
proxy an all." The babau's face contorted in a 

mocker y of a smile. And soon I'll be more than that, Jack thought. "'Course, 
under Ore - I mean, under the former ruler" - the fiend looked about with 
nervous haste - "I was a proxy, too. Things were different then." As Jack 
spoke, he peeled a layer of maggot-ridden flesh from his right forearm and 
sniffed at it. 'But," he whispered conspiratorially, "they weren't all that bad." 

The undead drow shambling alongside the fiend 
nodded. Perhaps that was all he - it - could do. The 
drow had been a great and respected servant of Kiaran- 
salee before she'd had the berk killed and eventually re 
animated into the unliving creature it was now. The 
thing's current duty: Fetch water from the River Styx and 
bring it to Lachrymosa . But then Rotting Jack had 
appeared and began babbling about himself - 
a common occurrence in 
Thanatos. 

The babau tipped 
his head back and low 
ered the strip of rotted skin 
into his wide mouth, swallow 
ing it without chewing. "Now, you know 
all about . . . the former master, right? I mean, you were one of 'em that hid his 
stick away. I know you did that way long ago, while you were livin' and all. but 
do you remember - " 

Jack stopped, suddenly aware of another presence. He spun around to see a 
dark shadow looming over them and just had time to fling himself to the ground 
before something swooped past. When Jack looked up again, the undead drow 
was gone - carried away, wordlessly, by the shape? 

"What a way to go, " the babau said to himself. He wondered if the drow had 
been able to scream the firsi time it'd been put in the dead-book. It seemed to 
Jack that screaming was an important part of death. To be denied that was a 
real shame. 

Jack had no idea what the shadow might have been, but only a leatherhead 
would be surprised to see such a thing happen. This was Thanatos. after all. 
Still. the dark shape had seemed a little familiar. It'd almost looked like . . . no, 
it couldn't have been him. 



? CHAN+ IN + H€ CAGE ? 

In this chapter, the player characters get dragged back into the events involving 
the visages, and, ultimately, Tenebrous himself. Summoned by Veridis Mov, the 
PCs return to Crux (perhaps by way of the prime-material world Ranais), spy on 
a meeting of undead fiends, and pick up clues to the existence and location of a 
mysterious fortress known as Tcian Sumere. 

At the start of this chapter, the PCs are more than likely back in Sigil. As 
mentioned previously, the Dungeon Master can allow as much time to pass as he 
likes before bringing the heroes back into the main story. Between the end of 
Chapter III and the beginning of Chapter IV, the DM could run a short Sigil ad 
venture, perhaps a portion of "Into the Light." 

During that time, the cutters can't help getting lanned to all the chant 
sweeping through the City of Doors. The following tidbits - some true, some 
false - are on the lips of just about every bone-box in Sigil. The heroes can 
learn the information from any source: 


? 48 ? 


? 


? 


? 

? 



"The gods are dying, 
according to the Athar. 'Course, 
you've got to expect anything they say about 
the powers to contain at least a little screed." 


"Something's murdered Maanzecorian, the illithid power." 


"Nothing can kill a power, berk. Don't listen to idle rumors." 


"Those addle-coves have it all wrong. The powers 
ain't dying - the dead ones're coming back to life! 
Truth is, the Signers're behind the whole thing." 


? "I hear that some leatherhead's planning on putting the high-up proxies of Set in the dead-book. 
Let me tell you, I sure wouldn't want to make that blood mad." 


? "Bwimb, the Baron of the Paraelemental Plane of Ooze, is lost." 


? "Bwimb? Who cares?" 

? "I heard that Apollo was put in the dead-book right in his home on Olympus." 

? "The latest chant is that Tomeri is lost, too." 

? "Tomeri? Who's that? Or should I say, who was that?" 

? "The Astral's not going to be big enough to hold 'em all, I tell you." 


BLAmiNG +HE fAC+l(c)NS 

Not everyone in Sigil puts stock in the rumors, but those who do want to know who or what is responsi 
ble for killing the powers. Many Cagers suspect faction involvement - after all, one group or another 
seems to take credit for just about everything that happens in the multiverse. And if the DM s also 
running 
"Into the Light," which prominently features the Athar and the Sign of One, those two factions move to 
the top of everyone's list. (Although the adventures in "Out of the Darkness and Into the Light aren t 
closely related, the DM's free to play upon faction paranoia to make it seem as if the two scenarios are 
part 
of the same grand plot.) 

Most folks immediately blame the Athar, and bloods who know of the Godslayers - the faction splin 
ter group on the Astral - point their fingers there. But the high-ups in the Athar release no official 
state 
ment. They're as much in the dark as everyone else. And as happy as they might be to hear of the death 
of a few powers, they're worried about a possible backlash that could harm the faction. Gods don't die 
without consequences, after all. 

Berks who like to consider themselves clever thinkers say that the Athar are too obvious a target, that 
the real culprits are just trying to pin the blame on the Defiers. Some of these bashers claim that it s the 
Sign of One who's at fault. Chant is the Signers want to prove their philosophy (and show off a bit) by 
bringing a dead power back to life. When they couldn't find a corpse to their liking, they imagined a few 
gods into the dead-book just so they could bring 'em back later. 

The truly intelligent cutters in town realize that mortals just don't kill gods. If the powers actually are 
dying in numbers (and no real proofs been offered yet), then something big is going on - something far 
beyond the scope of ordinary folk. But most people don't like to hear such talk. It s not as much fun. Fact 
is, it's downright terrifying. 

That's part of the reason folks like to look to the factions for answers, and the Athar and the Signers 
aren't the only groups to get involved - or to receive their share of the blame. Here's how the rest react 
to 
all the talk about powers falling to the Astral: 


? 49 ? 



Tm Bhl It* VERS OF THE SOURCE. 

Many Godsmen feel that powers aren't born, but made out of 
those who succeed and ascend throughout a succession of 
lifetimes. It stands to reason that gods can be unmade as well. 
Perhaps the "murdered" powers are merely those who fell 
back down the evolutionary ladder. 

The Bleak Cabal. 

Bleakers've always scorned those who turn to the gods for an 
swers, when real truths can only be found within. Maybe the 
idea of fallen deities is just the kick in the pants folks need to 
realize that the cosmos ain't supposed to make sense. Maybe 
now they'll look inside themselves. 

Tm Doumguakd. 

To the Sinkers, the death of gods is a sure sign that the multi- 
verse is progressing toward cherished entropy. While most fac- 
tioneers don't encourage more murders, they're glad to spread 
disturbing rumors, heightening a general sense of panic. 

Tm fJUSIMEN. 

Powers are dying? Good for them - only in death can they 
reach a state of purity. 'Course, they'd better dissect their pas 
sions and understand themselves before then, or they'll still 
be denied the ultimate truth. 

The Fated. 

Takers won't waste time or tears crying about deities that get 
put in the dead-book. They figure that any god who can't han 
dle himself didn't deserve to be a power in the first place. 
Greedy faction members might try to relieve deserted temples 
or distraught priests of a power's "unclaimed possessions." 

The Fraternity or Order. 

While the Guvners study the matter with logical interest, they 
find themselves the target of accusations as well. Have they 
discovered a cosmic loophole that lets them prove that the 
powers simply shouldn't exist? 

The Free League. 

The Indeps try to live and let live - or die, as the case may be. 
Besides, they hate subscribing to a single philosophy, so most 
Indeps probably wouldn't flock to a power's banner in the 
first place. 

The Harmonium. 

The Hardheads'd like to hammer out what they consider to be 
the bumps of the multiverse, to make it all fit according to 
their ideal. Whoever's killing gods seems to have a different 
plan - one that must be stopped. 


Tm R* vmimoNAKY League. 

If the Anarchists could find a way to kill more gods and do it 
faster , they probably would. There's no better way to smash 
institutions than to undermine deep-rooted faith. This kind of 
attitude makes the League a handy scapegoat. 

Tin Society or Sensation. 

Many Sensates are no doubt intrigued at the thought of the 
incredible sensations a cutter must feel as he wrings the di 
vine life from a deity. Fact is, some folks believe the faction's 
engineering the deaths solely to experience the ultimate thrill. 

Tm Transcendent Okdir. 

The Ciphers believe that the gods haven't died; they've simply 
blended thought and action in perfect harmony and become 
one with the multiverse. Other, more lurid explanations are 
nothing but screed. 

The Xagsitects. 

More gods, fewer gods, no gods - it makes little difference to 
the Chaosmen. Chant is the Xaositects have stumbled across a 
fantastic new weapon and are using it on the powers, just be 
cause they can. 

a summeNS 

The PCs can react to the rumors however they like. But canny 
heroes might match the story about Maanzecorian's death 
with their illithid encounter on the Outlands (from Chapter I). 
And if they check around with a few well-lanned spivs about 
Set's proxies, they learn that Nekrotheptis Skorpios - the 
blood they met in Chapter III - is definitely still alive, though 
chant is he's preparing to defend Ankhwugaht against some 
kind of assault. 

Whether or not these odd facts raise their suspicions, the 
PCs eventually receive a written note from Veridis Mov, ask 
ing them to return to Crux: 

Dear friends. 

Hoping that this finds you in good health and spirit. I 
humbly ask from you a boon. Because of circumstances that 
concern you directly. I ask that you return to Crux as soon as 
possible. Once you arrive , you 'll see my reasoning to be quite 
clear. Time and secrecy are of the essence. 

Yours , 

Veridis Mov 

Unless the PCs did some serious digging the first time 
they were in the tree-burg, they probably didn't learn about 
the shortcut from Sigil to Crux through the prime-material 
world of Ranais. In that case, Veridis's note also includes 
instructions for them to seek out someone 
named Vlrc in The Lady's Ward of Sigil - 
she can give the group the chant on the 
quickest route to Crux. 


Thi Mercykiliers. 

It's bad enough when an apple thief or cony-catcher escapes 
the due punishment of law. The Red Death feel 
who commit spectacular crimes - like slaying 
deities - must pay equally staggering prices 


-catcher escapes 
el that those 

? 50 ? 


THE QUEEN (c)F SIGIL 

Looking around The Lady's Ward for someone named Vlrc 
takes some time. Most folks don't know the name. But if the 
PCs persist, they eventually ask a basher who says, "Oh, you 
mean the queen!" He points the heroes toward a clock tower 
that stands in Penate Square, not far from the Twelve Factols 
restaurant and tavern. 

Penate Square is a quiet, somber intersection oj three 
wide streets. Most folks bustle through the area as quickly as 
they can. saying little and remaining focused on their own 
business. At the center of the square stands a tall tower with 
a round cluck face on each of its four sides. No one seems to 
pay much attention to the tower. 

If the PCs look closely at the top of the tower, they notice 
movement behind one of the slightly translucent clock faces. 
(Investigating the tower draws a little attention from 
passersby, but not much.) A low door set in one of the tower's 
sides is obviously locked, and knocking brings no reply. How 
ever, calling out for Vlrc does. 

The door opens soundlessly, and a long, narrow head - 
not the least bit human - peeks out. It appears to he the head 
of a large insect, cocked to one side in a curious pose. "Yes? 
Can I help you?" The creature seems to chit ter more than 
speak, and the clicking twice is unsettling but definitely female. 


? Show the players Illo E (on page 171). 

Vlrc is a formian queen, kidnapped from Arcadia at birth 
by a group of marauders and eventually sold as a curiosity in 
Sigil. Due to the trauma (and possibly the environment), she 
never grew to her full size or gained the abilities that should 
have rightfully been hers as a queen. 

Named and raised by her human clockmaker owner, Vlrc 
shows few signs of her insectlike nature, though she's well 
aware of the formians, their culture, and her proper place in 
it. Even when she earned her freedom, Vlrc never wished to 
rejoin her own kind. Instead, she earns a living in Sigil as an 
interplanar merchant, though her first love is clocks - she's in 
charge of the tower in Penate Square. But she doesn t appre 
ciate being mocked with the nickname "Queen of Sigil," 
which some Cagers call her. 

Through her many trades, Vlrc became an acquaintance of 
Veridis Mov, and she can tell the PCs how to get to Crux from 
Sigil: Take a portal to the prime-material world of Ranais and 
then travel about 15 miles to another portal that leads to the 
tree-town. The portal to Crux is always open, and like all such 
doorways on Yggdrasil, it resembles a color pool. As for the 
portal to Ranais, it's a set of double doors on a stable in the 
Market Ward; the key is a tattered piece of white leather. 

Vlrc doesn't ask for any reward for her trouble, but most 
bloods'll give her some garnish - which she'll gladly accept. 
In general, the PCs find the formian to be well-mannered, 
pleasant, and extremely intelligent. 



? 51 ? 














T H € TRIP +(c) CRUX 

The Dungeon Master is free to invent the details of Ranais's 
portal to Crux. The specifics don't really matter, as long as 
Vlrc gives the PCs directions to the right spot. 

However, it's possible that the heroes'll try to find their 
own way back to Crux. (Perhaps the encounter with Vlrc 
doesn't go well, or the berks don't want to ask for anyone's 
help.) For example, they could catch a handy portal to the 
Outlands, locate the fallen trunk in the realm of the Norns, 
and climb back to the tree-burg - after all, it worked before. 

At this point in the game, traveling through Ranais pro 
vides the PCs with spooky atmosphere, possible encounters 
with wraiths and visages, and a bit of useful information. But 
if they avoid passing through the prime-material world, it's 
not a disaster. Just skip over "A Dead World" and continue 
with "Back in Crux." The cutters must return to Ranais later 
anyway to find a portal to the secret fortress of Tenebrous, and 
that's when the DM can use the information below. 


? A DEAD W(c)RLD ? 

When the PCs step through the portal to Ranais, they emerge 
in the middle of a quiet, seemingly dead city, mostly in ruins. 
(Refer to the map on page 51; the heroes arrive at the spot 
marked "Portal to Sigil.") Fallen columns lie alongside marble 
buildings and jumbles of rocks, beams, and other rubble. 
Once-great cathedrals have become stone skeletons, and au 
gust, many-storied structures stand as silent as giant tombs. 
While everything seems ancient, the city's remains exude a 
feeling of undisturbed preservation. 

Ranais's sun hangs high above, tiny and white, providing 
little warmth or illumination. It's a world forever in the grip of 
night. Those who know its history refer to it as the Funereal 
World, or sometimes just Funereal. See, the planet was once 
populated with bashers who revered death (though they had no 
knowledge of or connection to the Dustmen faction). Fact is, 
each city devoted itself to a particular death god, and many 
burgs worshiped Orcus. When the great city known as Moil 
turned away from Orcus, however, it was cast into a demiplane 
- most likely forever - and the rest of the world was hurled 
into cataclysm and chaos. Those who could, escaped (and some 
of them fled to the planes and founded the town of Crux). The 
rest perished, the dead-book burgeoning with their names. 

When Orcus was reborn as Tenebrous, he commanded his 
undead servants - the visages - to make Ranais their lair. 
After all, the world still resonates from its links to death and 
to the revivified god. Many of the fiends have also established 
a base in Crux, but the tree-burg's just a minor stop between 
their master's point of resurrection and the world once de 
voted to him. 

'Course, the PCs don't know any of this. To them, Ranais 
is just a dead world, and as soon as they arrive, they probably 
start heading for the portal to Crux. The trip covers about 15 
miles, but most of it's through a ruined city that seems to have 


once been a fabulous place. Toppled marble columns, crum 
bling painted and frescoed walls, decayed gardens, empty av 
enues with pillared sides and cracked pavement - the ruins 
seem a quiet vestige of a virtually unknowable past. 

For the first half-hour or so, all the PCs have to worry 
about is the cold, calm weather (it's about 30 degrees) and the 
slow progress through the rubble and debris. But before long, 
they encounter one of the poor dead spirits of the nameless 
city through which they walk. They're stalked by a wraith 
hungry for warmth and life. 

The cutters first tumble to the danger when they hear a 
mournful wail from behind them. Whether they investigate or 
not, a few minutes later they hear the sound again - closer. 
But the wraith doesn't attack outright. Instead, it tries to strike 
from a shadow or from behind and then scurry back into the 
darkness. If a PC presents a holy symbol (as if to turn the 
wraith) or attacks the creature with an enchanted weapon that 
can cause it harm, the wraith flees, crying out, "Your lives are 
ours on which to feed! You belong to the Lovelost...." 

THC L(c)VEL(c)S+ 

The Lovelost are spirits of berks who survived the climactic 
upheavals that long ago destroyed Ranais. While most of the 
people fled, some were unable to leave in time or simply 
chose to stay behind and die along with their beloved home. 
Forced to live the rest of their lives on a ruined world, they 
eventually passed into the dead-book and now continue to 
haunt their fallen cities as wraiths. 

They haunt the PCs as well, dogging their heels as the 
heroes make their way toward the portal. Although hundreds 
of the Lovelost still inhabit this pan of Ranais, the undead 
creatures attack the PCs one at a time (in the manner de 
scribed above), more to toy with the heroes than to actually 
destroy them. 

If any canny bloods turn a wraith or inflict a great deal 
of damage on one, it flees. If the PCs follow, they embark on 
a tense chase through the ancient wreckage, soon finding 
themselves in a long, abandoned courtyard that's open to the 
dark sky. As they stand in the quiet sanctuary, three wraiths 
calmly appear and begin to speak in eerie unison: 

"We are the Lovelost. When this world died , we were 
forced to lire on, without home, without family, without lore. 
Even when we died, we tired on . . . and on. And the one who 
did this to us was he whom we had worshiped. He whom we 
had held abore all others. 

"We heard that, in rime, even he had entered the halls of 
death, and this pare us joyless satisfaction. But now even that 
has been taken from us, for he Hues again. His servants roam 
not only this world but those nearby, for his former temple 
holds an ancient pathway. He seeks knowledge of that which 
he has lost. He seeks revenge. 

" Yet, as a speck can irritate the eye of a man, a man can 
thwart the plans of an immortal - at least for a time. For can 
a man not eventually remove the speck? 


? 52 ? 



"Pass through this city now, and taste the fruit of his 
works. Choose your path afterward as you will . We will 
plague you no further." 


With that, the three wraiths disappear. The PCs are free to 
finish their trek to the portal with no more interference from 
the Lovelost. If they activate the portal and step through, they 
find themselves again in Crux; skip ahead to "Back in Crux," 
below. 


SEARCHING +HE RUINS 


If the heroes decide to spend some time on Ranais before 
heading to Crux, they find trouble enough to satisfy even the 
most courageous (or addle-coved) among them. Aside from 
various undead spirits and monsters that roam the world 
(even beyond the Lovelost), the visages are also present - as 
the wraiths warned. 

The fiends' current base of operations is a small church 
only partially in ruins. Though it was once a temple of Orcus, 
all signs of its former dedication are gone, stripped away 
long ago by the inhabitants of the world. But un 
less the heroes mask their approach with in 
credible ^ill, four visages lurking inside the 
temple detect their presence and take 
control of their perceptions. Thus, 
when the berks first spot the temple, , 
they see only what the fiends want 
them to see - in this case, the 
church as it looked long ago: 


r 


Because the worshipers aren't real, none of them react in 
any way to the PCs, except to turn and silently beckon them 
toward the temple. Meanwhile, one of the four visages tries to 
use its domination power to make one of the heroes enter the 
church. Any PCs that approach the doors find they can't see 
inside, but they do feel the incredible evil and malevolence 
that issues forth from within. The ghastly music intensifies, 
and the entire experience becomes almost dreamlike. 

The PCs must resist entering the wicked temple. If one of 
the heroes sets foot inside - no matter what the reason - all 
is lost for him. The Dungeon Master can rule that the berk 
drops dead or becomes eternally corrupted and unsuitable as 
a player character, perhaps to return later as an NPC foe. 
That's a terrible fate, however (and likely to elicit howls of 
protest from players), so the DM should spare no description 
of the bitter, foul evil felt by anyone approaching the doors. It 
should be abundantly clear that entering the temple is the 
wrong thing to do. 

'Course, the best thing the PCs can do is realize that 
there's no way a temple - complete with worshipers - should 
be found in such fine condition in the 
middle of a dead world. If 
they tumble to this oddity (or 
even guess that they might be 
victims of a visage's power 
to alter perceptions), they 
can make saving throws 
versus spell to shake off 
the effects. 

Those who make the 
roll see only the ruined 
church - no worshipers, 
no music, no black 
paint, no inscriptions, 
and no stone ram's head. 
Any PC who sees the 
temple as it truly is can 
enter the building and 
suffer no consequences. 
If that happens, the 
four visages try to flee 
before they're spotted. 

The inside of the 
church is completely ran 
sacked and devoid of deco 
ration or furnishings; not 
evqn an altar remains. But a 
PC who enters with his wits 
about him might detect a por 
tal at the far end. The key - 
the act of extinguishing a 
light source - is known only 
to the visages. The portal leads to 
Tcian Sumere, Tenebrous's secret fortress 
on the Negative Energy Plane. It's the "ancient 
pathway" the Lovelost mentioned. 


Ahead, a structure rises 
from the ruins, intact and pris 
tine. Its walls, Though painted 
black, are strewn with bone - 
white inscriptions written in 
languages that are beyond 
you. Horrible, somber 
music pulses out of the 
building, accompanied 
by discordant chants 
and sounds meant to 
imitate moans of 
pain. Darkly clad 
people, cloaked 
in hoods as 
black as the 
night sky, 

march solemnly *V 
and silently * 1 
toward the large 
open doors, over 
which, a stone 
ram's head watches 
with malice. 


? 53 ? 


















If the heroes figure out the portal key and step through to 
Tcian Sumere, skip ahead to Chapter V, "The Bottom of the 
Multiverse." Hopefully, though, they'll continue instead to 
Crux to find out why Veridis Mov summoned them. 

? BACK IN CRUX ? 

Depending on the PCs' actions when they were last in Crux, 
they may or may not be particularly welcome. In any case, they 
have no trouble making their way to the home of Veridis Mov. 

Here's the dark of it: If the heroes thought they'd killed or 
driven off all of the visages in the battle at High Point, they 
were wrong. Some time after the PCs left Crux (depending on 
how much time the Dungeon Master wants to let elapse be 
tween Chapter III and Chapter IV), the undead fiends made 
their presence known again. Veridis fears that the creatures 
will destroy his town and everything he's built over the years 
if they're allowed to continue. So he sent a message to the he 
roes for help. After all, they had a hand in dealing the invaders 
a defeat before, and they're best prepared to do so again. 

When the PCs arrive at his case, Veridis tries to make 
them comfortable and offers them fine food and drink. Then 
he makes the following offer: 

" Well met. my friends. I'm grateful for your attendance 
and attention. You're no need of my telling you that some 
thing rile has come to this once-fair city . You're not . . . what 
is it you call them? Oh, yes: addle-cores. On the contrary, you 
fine folks are the ones who re dealt with this evil force pnost 
directly - and please don't think the people of Crux don't ap 
preciate it. 

"But the disease that grips our city has not yet been elim 
inated. The creatures have returned. And because you hair an 
edge, given you by experience , I'd like to implore you with all 
the means at my disposal to finally and completely rid Crux of 
this foul plague. If you will. I shall be most grateful." 

Most likely, the PCs ask for details about the latest trou 
bles. But just as Veridis begins to explain, a knock at the door 
interrupts their meeting. 

impes + (c)RS 

Veridis opens the door to his case to find a townswoman (per 
haps even someone the PCs remember having seen before) 
carrying a small child. The woman's flaxen hair hangs in her 
face and her simple dress is torn and dirty. "Monsters!" she 
cries. "Monsters attacking my home!" 

Unfortunately, the woman and the child are really visages. 
The fiends, aware of the PCs' presence, hope to gain entry to 
Veridis's house and confuse the group long enough to launch a 
surprise attack. The creatures want to kill the PCs, and the fact 
that they're willing to stage such a direct assault should signal 
the heroes that the visages're getting a bit desperate. 

'Course, that doesn't help the PCs with the fight at hand. 


Veridis, naturally, defends his home and guests to his fullest 
ability. By now, the heroes should have no doubt that he's a 
force to be reckoned with, both politically and physically. But 
the blood has no guards or special defenses in his home, and 
his cat, Zin, is nothing more than it appears - it certainly 
doesn't get involved in the fight. 

I (c) B (c)FfCR 

After the group deals with the intruders, Veridis gives them 
the chant on the current troubles. Thanks to his many con 
nections, Veridis has learned that the visages based in Crux 
and the surrounding area soon expect the arrival of a messen 
ger bearing important information. Many of the fiends plan to 
gather at a secret meeting spot to hear the messenger's news. 
Veridis believes that it's vital to pick up the berk's chant - 
that it may contain the means of ending the fiends' threat 
once and for all. 

Veridis offers to pay each player character 2,000 gp for 
helping out - 500 gp now, and the rest when the threat to 
Crux is vanquished. If the heroes accept, Veridis tells the cut 
ters that the messenger is due to appear two days hence at a 
spot on Yggdrasil called the Salience. It's about a full day's 
walk from Crux, but Veridis provides excellent directions. 

? THC SALIENCE ? 

As a body travels around the World Ash, he's likely to see a 
few amazing sights. For example, giant eagles make their 
roosts on some of the upper branches. Chant says the great 
birds can fly off of Yggdrasil, winging their way through in 
visible aerial paths that take them to any of the planes 
touched by the tree. No one knows this for sure, but it's clear 
that the eagles come from and go to somewhere. 

Another mystery of the eagles is the Salience, a monument 
or cathedral built in and around a huge rift on one of Yggdra- 
sil's branches. Chant is the birds created it long ago for some 
unknown purpose but deserted the place soon after. In any 
case, the Salience fell into ruin and has since been abandoned, 
making it a perfect spot for a secret meeting of visages. 

As Veridis said, it takes the PCs a full day to walk from 
Crux to the Salience. (Refer to the map of Yggdrasil on the in 
side front cover of Dead Gods.) The trip isn't troubled by vis 
ages - the undead fiends aren't prepared for the heroes' con 
tinued interference - but that doesn't mean things are easy. 
At about the halfway point (or at any time when the group 
stops to rest), a ratatosk appears on a branch high overhead. 
Not surprisingly, it begins to launch taunts down on the 
planewalkers. 

If the PCs attack the ratatosk or threaten it with harm, 
the creature scurries away and won't return. If it's merely ig 
nored, the ratatosk eventually leaves, though it returns later 
with more taunts. But if the heroes try to communicate in any 
way with the ratatosk - especially if they show it some re 
spect (rather than treat it like a lowly animal) - the squirrel- 


? 54 ? 


man clambers down the branch to talk with the cutters. When 
it reaches their level, six more ratatosk emerge from hiding 
places in the foliage. 

M Ch-rh-chani is this. huma-nui-ma-mnns." one of the 
ratatosk cltincn. "H\rd place hail ,'* says another . A third adds. 
"Wefolk can show you folk - you folk fww to get in." Then the 
first ratatosk speaks again: "Aro-ro-roid the er-r-r-il. Fi- 
nally . a fourth squirrel -creature pipes up: "You get rid - rid of 
had-ncss. This help - help moth-er tree. Help us much." 

Essentially, these spying little bashers've tumbled to the 
PCs' destination and want to help them against the visages, 
believing that it'll serve the greater good of the World Ash. 
The ratatosk won't enter the Salience or fight the undead 
fiends, but they agree to lead the group to the right spot 
(though they may not reveal any of this until they actually 
reach the Salience). 

A+ +HC SC€ N € 

The Salience was created in and around an ancient scar in the 
bark of the tree. This scar is 20 feet wide, 30 feet deep, and 
about 240 feet in length. The giant eagles carved a staircase 


into either end. Some say they did it so that nonflyers could 
easily get into the area; others say it was because all beings 
were required to walk into the Salience - it was too holy a 
place to do otherwise. 

The giant eagles fashioned the entire scar into a long 
gallery with niches gouged out of the sides. On the rim of the 
scar above each niche, they placed a carved wooden eagle. 
Ever since the real eagles abandoned the Salience, the eight- 
foot-tall carvings have been the imposing rulers of the 
gallery. But in time, a few have become damaged and one has 
disappeared altogether. 

By the time the PCs arrive, eight visages have gathered at 
the bottom of the scar to await the messenger from Tene 
brous. These eight fiends are the only ones left on all of Ygg- 
drasil; destroying them here and now would cleanse the tree 
of their evil influence. 'Course, only an addle-cove'd just 
blunder in and attack. 

If the ratatosk accompany the PCs, they show the heroes 
the safest and most surprising route into the Salience - from 
above. See, the area's become overgrown since the timelost days 
when the Salience was actually used, and Yggdrasil's branches 
now hang low over the gallery. With the squirrel-folk's help, the 
PCs can climb onto a branch and gain a vantage point right 
above the visages, well hidden but still within earshot. 



? 55 ? 















































If the PCs don't have the ratatosk's aid, they're on their 
own. Top-shelf rogues might still be able to sneak in close or 
climb up into the overhanging branches; well-cast spells 
might solve the problem, too. The Dungeon Master should 
also keep in mind that while the visages are naturally peery 
and want to keep their meeting a secret, they aren't expecting 
interlopers. 

Refer to the map of the Salience on page 55. 

THE ITTESSE NGE R 

Canny PCs wait for the messenger to arrive before making a 
move. The chant they pick up by eavesdropping on the meet 
ing proves to be far more important than destroying the vis 
ages themselves. 

The ethereal creatures are silent and practically motion 
less. obviously waiting for something. A fter a time . they begin 
to writhe in apparent anticipation as wisps of smoke or steam 
begin to roll down the steps on one side of the gallery. The 
ghostly monsters give it their full attention. The cloud of mist 
takes the form of a small, winged humanoid creature with 
pale green skin. It makes its way down the step s and an 
nounces, *7 bring news from Thanatos . " 

Tenebrous himself commissioned the messenger - a mist 
mephit named Rish-shissistris-shas - to carry word to his ser 
vants on Yggdrasil. From the smug expression on its fiendish 
face and the confident manner in which it holds its wispy 
body, the mephit clearly realizes the importance of its em 
ployer, its message, and its position. 

The Dungeon Master should let each PC make an Intelli 
gence check at -3. Those who succeed remember hearing 
somewhere that Thanatos is one of the layers of the Abyss. 
(Naturally, any heroes that already know of Thanatos need 
not make a check.) 

The mephit continues to address the visages. "Your 
master commands you to remain near the tree-city. Very 
shortly, he shall remove the insect that thwarted your previous 
efforts and shall recover the bloom himself. For at long last, 
one of the perpetrators has been located and is now securely 
held within Tcian Sumere, at the Bottom of the Multiverse ." 
The small, misty creature pauses for effect. "Your master has 
also bid me to add: None shall rest until my vengeance is 
complete. All who stand in my way shall face the wrath of 
that which was wrought in the ancient halls of the realm now 
known only for dust .' " 

As noted in Chapter III, Nekrotheptis Skorpios prevented 
the visages from stealing the desert's night bloom from 
Ankhwugaht. Now, Tenebrous has decided that he will travel 
to Set's realm, annihilate the proxy for his impudence, and 
bring back the blossom himself. And it's vitally important 
that he succeeds - the visages have finally captured one of 
the berks who buried the Wand of Orcus, and the desert's 
night is needed to restore his missing memories. 

Even if the PCs tumble to part of the message and realize 


that Nekrotheptis Skorpios might be in danger, they can do 
nothing to prevent the proxy's coming death. (See Interlude II 
for details.) Most likely, though, the heroes decide that they 
should investigate Tcian Sumere, the place the mephit spoke 
of, which is located somewhere at the bottom of the multi- 
verse - whatever that means. 

But the characters don't have much time to puzzle out 
the mephit's words. As soon as the messenger is done speak 
ing, the visages suddenly and viciously attack it - probably 
much to the heroes' surprise. The mephit's plenty surprised, 
too, and doesn't stand a chance. Once the visages have rended 
the poor sod into bits, one of the fiends simply states, "No one 
may know the master's secrets!" 

Non.: Extraordinarily smart cutters might realize (or later 
discover) that "the realm now known only for dust" is an 
oblique reference to Pelion, the third layer of Arborea. That's 
where Tenebrous gained the power of the Last Word. 

A + + ACKING + HE VISAGES 

At some point, the PCs probably launch an attack upon the 
evil creatures in the Salience, perhaps even while the visages 
are busy destroying the mephit - it provides an excellent op 
portunity for surprise. If the heroes hide in the branches 
directly over the fiends, they're only about 10 feet above the 
rim of the Salience and 40 feet from the bottom. It's easy 
enough for them to hurl spells and missiles down at the vis 
ages, and a cutter could slide down a rope and move into 
melee combat range in just one round. 

Assuming that the visages are caught off guard, it takes 
them a few rounds to bring their lucidity-control powers to 
bear upon the planewalkers. With a little luck, a well-coordi 
nated attack by the PCs could devastate the undead creatures 
in that time. 

On the other hand, it's possible that the visages get the 
best of the heroes, especially if the berks rush in like barmies 
and hack at their foes like crusaders in a war. While valiant, 
this method might result in a quick trip to the dead-book un 
less the PCs get some assistance. Kind Dungeon Masters can 
allow anywhere from one to 10 giant eagles to fly to the sods' 
aid (depending on how much help the PCs seem to need and 
how generous the DM feels). 

See, the eagles notice that someone's defiling their an 
cient sanctuary and move in to investigate. These canny birds 
size up the situation quickly and set their talons to tearing 
apart the visages. The eagles' assistance should be enough to 
help the PCs gain victory - or at least keep them from being 
slaughtered. 

But nothing's free in the multiverse. After the battle, the 
giant eagles warn the heroes that they're unhappy with the 
violence that has disturbed the Salience. At some point, the 
Great Conclave of Eagles will demand recompense both for 
their help and to make up for the sacrilege. This serves as a 
springboard for a future adventure: The DM can have the ea 
gles call in the debt, summon the PCs to Yggdrasil, and 
charge them with performing some task. 


? 56 ? 


GC + + ING + (c) 

? + H€ B(c) + + (c)m ? 

If the PCs want to find Tcian Sumere, they first must tumble 
to the meaning of the mephit's reference to "the Bottom of the 
Multiverse." Luckily, that's not too hard. Most graybeards rec 
ognize the term, and it's easily found in most Sigil libraries or 
bookshops with tomes on planar lore. It's an old slang nick 
name for the Negative Energy Plane. 

Tcian Sumere, however, isn't so easy to find. Fact is, 
there's no record of it anywhere. As noted earlier in this chap 
ter, the portal to the fortress is found in the old temple on the 
prime-material world of Ranais. If the PCs missed it when 
they first visited that world, they still have a few different 
methods of picking up the chant: 

? Find a visage (or let one escape from the Salience) and 
follow it. Eventually, it goes to the temple - the un 
dead fiends' base of operations. 

? Conduct research about Ranais. Although they find no 
mention of Orcus (such was the strength of the magic 
Kiaransalee used to eradicate the Abyssal lord), the 


bashers can learn that the people of the world wor 
shiped dark gods, and that a temple dedicated to one of 
these powers contained a secret portal. This kind of 
digging takes at least a week in a good library, and 
though the lead is vague, it gets the PCs looking in the 
right place. (The Lovelost also spoke of the temple and 
its "ancient pathway.'') 

? Talk to Veridis Mov. Most folks in Crux are descen 
dants of those who escaped the ruin of Ranais. A few 
townsfolk know of their ancestors' dark past, but 
Veridis is a font of ancient knowledge. He can tell the 
PCs about the temple and the portal, and he's even 
heard the name "Tcian Sumere" before. 'Course, he has 
no idea that the visages are currently using the old 
church as their base. 

Once the PCs learn of the temple, they need to return to 
Ranais, figure out the key to the portal, and pass through to 
Tcian Sumere. That's probably the only method of reaching 
the hidden fortress - unless a berk feels like journeying to the 
Negative Energy Plane and spending a few decades (or cen 
turies) searching the void. 






Chapter V* 

TH* 

i)f +H1 [kuLtIV{Rs| 



THE PHRASE 
"R0++EN +(r) +h£ C0RE" 
RINGS FALSE. 
f(r)r EVIL S+AR+S 
WITHIN l+S (r)wn HEART. 

- SHAY + H fTl A R L DRim. 

a GENASI S + (r)N£ CHAfTlPieN 


Afoul wind brought a new chill to the bator's nor 
mally hot flvslt. hut Glyphimhor didn't mind. The 
Master liked it cold. 

The fiend studied the approach to Orcusgate again - for what seemed the 
eight hundred millionth time - and still all was quiet. Surely the greatest and 
grandest city in the infinite Abyss was impregnable. Surely 
the defenses he'd designed to guard the major land ap 
proaches to the fortress of Orcus would win his lord's favor. 

Surely he'd win the Master's trust. 
And surely Glyphimhor would betray 
that trust as soon as possible. 

Thoughts of betrayal and ambi 
tion warmed the balor's chilled Jlesh 
as fire rippled down his skin. As 
master of Orcusgate and lieutenant of Orcus 
himself, Glyphimhor was in charge of 
the defenses - an 
important 
task, especially 
now that the 
war with Demogor- 
gon and Graz'/t had 
heated up. What's more, the new 
prisoner within the fortress - Baphomet himself - made security an even more 
important issue. Rumor had it that mortals from the Prime Material Plane were 
on their way to either obtain or destroy /with mortals, who could 
tell?) the Wand of Orcus. But hardly a day passed that 
some fool didn't attempt such a feat. Glyphimhor believed 
that the Master had spread rumors about the wand 
throughout the planes for just that reason. He liked prey 
to wander into his traps. 

Speaking of traps, it was time for Glyphimhor to check 
the Hexagon and Pentagon Mazes to see that the traps were 
re-set and that the iron golem still functioned. 
The thing had been acting up, and . . . 

No. Glyphimhor sighed - or would have, 
if he could. It was not time. Those duties were 
all in the past. His existence now was an eternity trapped within an energy cell, 
revered by insane visages. The days of power and glory were gone. 

The ba lor felt he'd have been better off if he'd never escaped the assault, if 
the hated draw goddess had just finished him off, too. . . . 



? THE RIDE TURNS DARK ? 

Up to this point in the adventure, the player characters have confronted only the 
agents or corruptive influence of Tenebrous - the visages in Crux, the Warp- 
wood, and so on. But now they take the plunge into the heart of the former 
Abyssal lord's power: Tcian Sumere, his secret fortress on the Negative Energy 
Plane. 

The PCs learned of the fortress while spying on the meeting of visages in 
the previous chapter, and they probably overheard the mephit messenger speak 
of "the perpetrator" held there. This captive is a drow named Kestod, one of the 
two berks responsible for hiding the Wand of Orcus long ago. The heroes don't 
know that, but they're likely to scour Tcian Sumere for the sod anyway, figuring 
that anyone held prisoner by the visages is probably an important blood. 


? 58 ? 





While exploring the 

fortress, the PCs pick up clues that point 
them to both the Vault of the Drow (Chapter VI) and 
the Arborean layer of Pelion (Chapter VII). The heroes 
might decide to go to either location next - assuming, of 
course, that they make it out of Tcian Sumere alive. 


? TCIAN SUmCRt ? 


Once, great and mighty Orcus ruled multiple layers of the Abyss, all filled with teeming cities 
of undead and tanar'ri. His palace in the layer of Thanatos was second to none in loathsome 
grandeur, yet he created Tcian Sumere as a last-ditch retreat should things ever go terribly wrong. He 
never really thought he'd need to use it. But now that Tenebrous has indeed been brought low, Tcian 
Sumere has become the central focus of his power - though he himself does not currently occupy the 
place. (To learn just what Tenebrous is up to during the events of this chapter, read Interlude II.) 

If the PCs dare to infiltrate the fortress, they have one advantage: Neither Tenebrous nor his servants 
ever dreamed that anyone would ever learn of its existence, much less find it. Thus, the heroes won't 
en 
counter too many guards or visages watching over the stronghold. But they'll still find Tcian Sumere 
strange - and challenging in the extreme. Despite the layer upon layer of magical wards that allow the 
fortress to exist on the Negative Energy Plane, those without a link to the plane (in other words, living 
be 
ings) feel a distinct difference while in Tcian Sumere. Most visitors'd describe it as a feeling of hunger all 
around them. Others might say it's as though something were tugging at their very spirit at every 
moment, 
trying to draw them into a horrible void. 

Tcian Sumere exists as a cluster of linked "bubbles" of safety within the Negative Energy Plane. 
(Refer to the map of the fortress on the poster sheet.) These spherical zones of relatively normal reality 
are 
joined by magical passages that writhe and sway like conduits. A body who peers into one of these pas 
sages can't see farther than 10 or 15 feet, but the length of the corridors doesn't matter. As soon as a PC 
enters one, he's automatically pulled along by an enchantment until he's spat out the other end. The 
trip 
takes ld4 rounds, and the sod can't turn around or stop en route. The corridors aren't physical hallways - 


they're magical paths. 

Spells with finite ranges can't be cast through a corridor. Thus, if a wizard in Area 4 tries to send a 
fireball down the passage to Area 10, the magic never reaches its target. But the spellslinger can 
teleport 
from Area 4 to Area 10. This limitation applies to spell-like powers as well, so a visage can alter a PC's 
perceptions only if they're both in the same area. 

On the other hand, sound travels down the corridors fairly well. Folks in a bubble can hear a tussle 
taking place in an adjacent area, and the tolling of the bell in Area 4 resounds throughout all of Tcian 
Sumere. If the fortress is obviously under attack, the inhabitants concentrate their defenses around the 
prison, where their most valuable treasure is kept - Kestod. 

The Dungeon Master needs to keep a few other things in mind: 


? Healing (both magical and natural) is difficult in Tcian Sumere - only half the normal amount of 
hit points are restored. 

? Due to the strength derived from the negative energy all around them, no undead creatures (in 
cluding the visages) can be turned. 

? Most areas of the fortress have no gravity, and the air is cold and thin. Missile ranges in these areas 
are doubled, but breathing is difficult, and the PCs find that physical exertion is more tiring, re 
quiring frequent rests (or Constitution checks, if the DM desires). Living bashers can move along 
only by pushing themselves off of something from time to time (except in the corridors, as noted 
above). Undead creatures can move freely, as if flying. 


At this point in the adventure, the PCs should remain in the dark. There shouldn't be any way for 
them to link Tcian Sumere to either Tenebrous or Orcus. Even the idol in the temple (Area 4) shouldn t 
give 
them much of a clue (unless the heroes have top-shelf knowledge of obscure religions). Besides, even if 
the 


? 59 ? 




sods do learn the name "Tenebrous," there's no reason they 
should link it with Orcus. 

Overall, if the PCs (and the players) are frustrated and 
confused as to what's going on in Tcian Sumere, the DM 
should know he's done his job well. It's far too early in "Out 
of the Darkness" to reveal the identity of the murderer. 

? ARRIVAL ? 

When the PCs step through the portal in the temple on Ranais, 
they arrive in Tcian Sumere at the spot marked "A" on the 
map. 

You find yourselves floating within a spherical chamber 
made of some kind of black metal. The only light is that which 
emanates from your own bodies, as though your very life force 
makes you stand out like a beacon. There's no gravity here, no 
sense of up or down. Your breath is visible in the cold, still 
air. The place is as quiet as death. 

Here's the dark of it: The heroes' life force does indeed 
stand out on the Negative Energy Plane. Any of the undead 
creatures in Tcian Sumere can detect it within 30 feet no mat 
ter how the PCs might try to hide (with invisibility spells, illu 
sions, or anything else). There's just no way to mask the glow 
of life here. 

Corridors lead away from the spherical room in six direc 
tions (including up and down), but the PCs won't realize their 
nature as magical conduits until they push into one. No mat 
ter which route the cutters take, they end up in one of the 
guard posts (Area 1). 

This end of the portal is formed by the bounded space of 
the room itself, and the portal is two-way - it leads back to 
Ranais. The key to activate the return trip is one of the "con 
secrated" bones found in the temple here (Area 4). 

? TH€ LAY0U+ ? 

As the PCs make their way through Tcian Sumere, the DM 
should remember that most chambers have no gravity, requir 
ing the heroes to push off of walls and solid objects and 
"swim" through the air. Thus, movement and combat'll work a 
bit differently. 

I. GUARD P0S + 

Each of these six areas're attended by Tcian Sumere's minders 
- ghouls. Tenebrous created these dreadful, disfigured crea 
tures long ago, and they feed upon the physical forms of sods 
who're brought here and "freed" of their life force. 

As you pass through the strange corridor, pulled down its 
winding length by unknown sorcery\ you begin to note a fetid, 
rotting odor. Unable to stop, you're thrust into a dark, spheri 


cal chamber - much like the one you just came from, only 
larger. Hut you're no longer alone. A hissing, rasping sound 
comes out of the darkness as corpselike monstrosities lurch 
forward toward you. 

Each guard post holds 10 ghouls. If the PCs flee into an 
other area, the guards don't follow. They always maintain 
their assigned post unless commanded otherwise by a visage. 

If the heroes destroy all 10 ghouls in a particular area, 
the essences of the slain creatures leave their physical bodies 
and join together before the PCs' eyes. They form a single en 
tity identical in appearance and ability to a spectre, which at 
tacks the cutters with wailing fury. 

2. CAULDR0N (c)f L(c)S+ S(c)ULS 

Whenever a living being dies in Tcian Sumere, the ghouls feed 
upon its physical corpse. But the spirit of the deader comes to 
this area, where it's forced to join others like it in a huge caul 
dron, stewing together in a horrifying cacophony of anguish 
and angst. 

Another spherical room, this area has a flat, round plat 
form at its center made of thick black iron. Sitting upon the 
platform is an immense cauldron of similar composition. Ban 
ners of black silk hang from the "bottom " of the platform, 
floating haphazardly in the gravity-free environment. 

Anyone peering into the cauldron sees a swirling mael 
strom of color. The pot is warm to the touch, but the contents 
have no temperature or tactile feeling at all. However, if a PC 
does "touch" the spirits within, he begins to hear - softly at 
first - moaning, whining, and screaming coming from the 
cauldron. Faces stretch out of the colors, beseeching the poor 
sod with imploring looks. (If any PCs have died while in Tcian 
Sumere, their faces will be among the spirits.) The victim must 
make a successful saving throw versus spell or flee the room 
as if under a fear spell. Note that none of the other heroes can 
hear the wailing or see the faces - unless, of course, they also 
touch the spirits. 

There's only one way for the PCs to help (or even affect) 
the spirits. Priestly magic such as dispel evil , remove curse , or 
even a simple bless spell causes the cauldron to crack, crum 
ble, and finally burst. The trapped spirits then fly free of the 
broken prison's confines, but they can't leave Tcian Sumere - 
they'd be instantly destroyed by the Negative Energy Plane. 
Thus, they wander about the fortress noncorporeally, unable 
to interact with or affect the real world. 

Most likely, they look for bodies to inhabit, animating 
fallen bashers not yet devoured by the ghouls. There's a good 
chance (75%) that a spirit eventually settles in its old body, 
probably after a few other spirits have had their chance but 
have been ousted by the rightful owner. Thing is, unless a 
corpse is healed of the damage it sustained that caused it to 
die in the first place, no spirit - not even the rightful inhabi 
tant - can animate the body for more than 2d6 rounds. 


? 60 ? 


'Course, any berk who dies in Tcian Sumere after the caul 
dron shatters no longer has anywhere to go. His spirit is forced 
to roam about the fortress, and his corpse is animated by other 
spirits in 2d6-round "shifts." Naturally, the sight of a recently 
dead friend suddenly jumping up and undergoing numerous 
personality changes should trouble the PCs greatly. 

3. mekIBUND SHAD0WS 

This chamber of shades and shadows is one of Tenebrous's fa 
vorites. 

At the end of the corridor, von reach a chamber with di 
mensions you can't easily determine. A dim light seems to 
come from somewhere , casting shadows around the strangely 
angled surfaces of the place. Though all is still within the 
room, the shadows begin to shift and more as you watch. They 
flow like slow, seeping liquid across the trails of the room, 
giring the place a sinister, unquiet feel. 

All of the shadows here once belonged to various sods 
who now rest quietly in the dead-book. See, Tenebrous has 
somehow found a way to bob spirits of their shadows, and 
he's locked them up here like treasures in a vault. Though the 
shadows shift, writhe, and flit about, they pose no real danger 
to bashers who enter - despite what the PCs might think. 


The chamber itself is really a series of uneven rooms with 
multifaceted, asymmetrical walls upon which the strange 
shadows are cast. Here and there, the walls have been fash 
ioned to make the shadows look monstrous; they resemble 
leering skulls, giant raking claws, horrid faces, and so on. 

4. T€ m P L€ (c)f +H€ KN€LL 

This is a temple dedicated to Tenebrous, though that fact 
won't be obvious to the PCs. What will be obvious is that the 
temple is similar to the one they encountered in the visages' 
"illusion" on the world of Ranais (assuming that the heroes 
fell under the fiends' spell and perceived the ancient image of 
that horrible church). 

This chamber is long and narrow, roughly rectangular in 
shape. It appears to be a temple of some sort, though the reli 
gion is obviously a dark and sinister faith. Shclres set into the 
walls hold rows of skulls, and the scrollwork around the 
shelves depicts loathsome images of fiends and undead. 

At one end of the temple hangs a gigantic iron bell en- 
grared with crudely made scenes and pictures. At the other 
stands a 15-foot-tall stone idol of a ram-headed humanoid, its 
muscular arms outstretched. The stone is black, though threads 
of a greenish mineral weave their way throughout. At the feet of 
the statue, a pile of bones is arranged in a ren / precise pattern. 



? Show the players Illo F (on page 171). 

Close examination of the bones reveals them to be the 
remains of humans and elves. They were arranged in their 
pattern during a religious ritual conducted by the visages 
some time ago. Tampering with the bones accomplishes noth 
ing, but one is needed to get back through the portal in the 
chamber where the PCs first arrived. 

THI ClHCi.lt I. 

If the heroes climb up onto the statue and examine it closely, 
they spy a narrow gold band around one of the ram's horns - 
the circlet of control for a skeleton warrior. Long ago, Orcus 
trapped the spirit of a mighty basher named Anarchocles 
within the circlet. Whoever wore the band gained the power 
to control the actions of the skeleton warrior and see through 
its eyes. The Abyssal lord's servants knew that the circlet was 
one of their master's most valued treasures, though they 
didn't know why. So when the servants fled Thanatos after 
their lord's fall, they brought the band to Tcian Sumere and 
placed it on the image of their god - no one had any idea of 
what else to do with it. 

Here's the dark of it, though: Orcus safeguarded the cir 
clet not because of what it could do for him, but rather be 
cause of how it might be used against him. See, when Anar 
chocles died, Orcus removed the skull from the corpse (which 
was destroyed) and placed it upon the end of a long iron 
scepter, which was then infused with some of the Abyssal 
lord's essence. This item became known as the Wand of 
Orcus. 

The circlet can cause trouble for Tenebrous in two ways. 
First, whoever wears the band on his head and gets within 80 
yards of the wand can see through the eyes of the skull. More 
importantly, though, if the circlet is touched to the skull, both 
turn to dust (as with any skeleton warrior and its circlet), ef 
fectively destroying the Wand of Orcus. 

'Course, the PCs aren't likely to realize this. The gold 
band probably just seems a minor (if mysterious) treasure. 
But it becomes extremely important if the heroes get within 
80 yards of the Wand of Orcus (which they will, in Chapter 
VIII). See, the spirit of Anarchocles is aware of what tran 
spires outside the circlet. If he senses that the wand is near, 
he tries to force the PCs to touch the circlet to the skull, de 
stroying both (and granting poor Anarchocles the eternal 
peace he craves). 

Tiif. Bui. 

Though the PCs may spend time wondering about the circlet, 
the main focus of the temple is really the large iron bell at the 
other end of the room. Eight feet in diameter and engraved 
with crude scenes of death and undeath, the magical bell 
gives the dark temple its name. It tolls loudly whenever any 
one enters the dead-book within Tcian Sumere. What's more, 
if a priest of Tenebrous (who are extraordinarily few now) dies 
anywhere in the multiverse, the bell gives a heart-shaking 
knell. 


Anyone who's in the temple when the bell rings must 
make a successful saving throw versus spell or be struck un 
conscious with fear and loathing for Id 10 minutes. Victims 
who fail the roll must make a second saving throw versus 
spell or be permanently afflicted with some sort of psychosis 
or paranoia. The Dungeon Master can determine the details of 
each illness, though they should relate directly to the history 
and experiences of the affected PC. 

Berks who try to ring the bell on their own encounter 
great difficulties. The bell's so heavy that a Strength of 15 or 
greater is required to move it at all. And even if a basher's 
able to move the bell, he discovers it makes no noise - there's 
no clapper within. When the bell rings, it does so through sor 
cery. Still, if a PC's determined to cause the bell to ring, he 
can bash it with a heavy object or weapon. If this occurs, the 
sod who hit the bell gets his reward - he (and he alone) is af 
fected as if the bell rang normally in his presence. What's 
more, the unscheduled noise draws the attention of any 
nearby visages, who arrive in a few rounds. 

Finally, if the temple bell is removed or damaged in any 
way, it loses all magical properties. 

S. SACRIS + Y 

Eons ago. Tenebrous (then called Orcus, of course) was a 
simple tanar'ri who ascended to power, becoming first an 
Abyssal lord and eventually a deity in his own right. His 
method of attaining godhood is dark (such a secret would be 
worth all the jink in Sigil), but one thing's for certain - when 
Orcus gained true immortality, he gave up his physical form 
forever. 

Afterward, his new priests and followers preserved the 
essence of their lord's remains in a large phylactery, which 
they later smuggled out of Thanatos when Orcus was slain 
and his realm usurped. The faithful servants brought the phy 
lactery to this chamber in Tcian Sumere. 

You appear at the entrance to this cylindrical room, 
which is at least 30 feet above the surface of the floor (with 
the ceiling rising about as high above). An uncountable num 
ber of bones, desiccated and brittle, rise up from the floor in a 
tremendous heap in the middle of the chamber, reaching al 
most the level of the entrance. On the top of the pile, where 
the flattened stack forms a small platform, sits what appears 
to be a dirtv glass container about 5 feet tall. Much of the con 
tainer is covered in a crusty film, though within you can see a 
deep green fluid. Solid or semisolid chunks of disgusting or 
ganic matter are suspended in the muck. 

A narrow black bridge joins where you now stand with 
the top of the pile of bones, and another bridge leads away 
front the pile to the exit on the other side of the room. The pull 
of gravity here makes you realize that, unlike most areas of 
this strange fortress, this room has a definite "down." The 
need for the bridge is clear. 

? Show the players Illo G (on page 172). 


? 62 ? 


Neither guards nor traps protect the bridge. Nevertheless, 
noisy cutters who draw attention from other areas of Tcian 
Sumere find this chamber a dangerous place for a confronta 
tion. If a fight occurs on the narrow bridge - which has no 
side rails or anything else to protect a berk - the likely result 
is a fall 30 feet down into the brittle pile of bones that covers 
the hard floor. 

To the untrained eye, the phylactery might 
look like a tall, thin flask containing a vile po 
tion or poison. Occasionally, for no apparent 0 
reason, the green liquid bubbles slowly - 
but just a bit. Detect magic and similar 
spells reveal that the phylactery it 
self is magical and that it con 
tains a small amount of magic. 

However, those traces are just 
from preservative spells and 
the natural tanar'ric composi 
tion of the essence. The phy 
lactery has no particular use, 
though it exudes a strong aura 
of evil and corruption. 

Truth is, destroying the 
phylactery is simple. It's 
exactly what it appears to 
be - a tall glass container. 

But the contents are 
highly toxic; any PC who 
touches the liquid must 
make a successful saving 
throw versus poison at -2 
or die within one round. 

What's more, if the con 
tainer is broken, anyone within 
20 feet must make a.successful 
saving throw versus poison or sus 
tain ld6 points of damage from the 
fumes and spend the next Id 10 
rounds coughing and choking. 

And what's accomplished by 
destroying the phylactery - the housing of the for 
mer bodily essence of a god? Nothing. Tenebrous's 
servants may have kept the container as a relic of unholy 
power, but the former Abyssal lord isn't harmed or weakened 
by its destruction. 

6. (c)BS€RVA + I(c)N T(c)W€R 

This chamber has a definite orientation. When the PCs reach 
the end of the corridor and enter the room, they start to as 
cend the staircase up into the "tower." 

Ahead of you now - or, rather, abort you - rises a spi 
ral staircase made of stone. You feel the pall oj gravity here. If 
you want to ascend the steps, you must do so in a conceit 
tional fashion. 


This area was built for the sole purpose of viewing the 
Negative Energy Plane. Here, and only here, a body can see 
into the plane itself - though admittedly, there's not much to 
see. The tower has three levels, each consisting of a round 
room with numerous windows that look out upon the vast, 
black void. 

On the first level, a number of 
stark benches face the windows. 
On the second level, the PCs find 
a few more benches and a table 
covered with strange, unfath 
omable papers that're either 
completely black or filled 
with indecipherable se 
ries of wavy lines 
and odd symbols. 
These documents 
are maps and 
charts of the 
Negative En 
ergy Plane, but 
there's no way 
for the heroes 
to realize that. 
The papers are 
literally unable 
to be under 
stood by living 
creatures. Only 
undead cutters 
could make any 
use of them, and 
then only on a 
very esoteric 
level. To the right 
blood, the maps and 
charts might be worth as 
much as 5,000 gp, but to 
most, they're just worthless sheets 
of parchment. 

The uppermost level of the tower is 
the most dangerous. The inhabitants of the 
fortress rarely visit or even monitor this area, and as a result, 
a new creature has settled in the tower. A xeg-yi - a native of 
the Negative Energy Plane - has bypassed the wards and bar 
riers that protect Tcian Sumere from the void and made its 
way into the upper chamber. 

This room seems empty except for something that looks 
like a small black explosion - a concentration of energy 
about 5 feet in diameter. Then the nimbus of black turns 
toward you, showing two gray, lifeless orbs that give you the 
impression of eyes. Holts of cold, hungry energy writhe out 
ward like pseudopods or whips. You feel something within 
you drawn to tlus strange thing, like iron filings to a power 
ful lodes tunc. 



? 63 ? 




This alien creature finds the interior of the fortress fasci 
nating, but it's frightened to explore. Still, the xeg-yi is a pos 
sible ally for the heroes, for it's no more predisposed to at 
tacking the PCs than it is the undead. If the cutters can some 
how communicate with the xeg-yi, it might be convinced to 
help their cause in exchange for the chant on its odd new en 
vironment and the planes from which the PCs hail. It had no 
idea that anything lay beyond its native plane, and it's keen 
on learning more. 'Course, having a creature of negative en 
ergy around - even as an ally - can be dangerous due to its 
energy-draining nature. 

If the xeg-yi feels threatened by the heroes or even 
simply misinterprets their intentions, it attacks them. 

7. SEPULCHRAL (W(c)RKR(c)em| 

This chamber, holy in the eyes of those devoted to Tenebrous, 
is used to create undead. 

Even before you notice this room's contents , you sense 
something immediately disturbing - there's just an evil aura 
about the place. Long stone tables occupy the center of the 
chamber. stained irith dark dribbles of something foul. Shelves 
along the walls hold all manner of jars, bottles , and flasks, 
some filled with liquids and syrups of nauseating colors and 
consistencies. Here and there, the line of containers is inter 
rupted by a large, dusty tome. Lastly ; a long, low table near 
the back displays a number of silvery metallic tools and in 
struments with purposes that seem better left unknown. 

The workroom has a slight amount of gravity - just 
enough to keep things in place. It's the area where corpses are 
treated with all manner of necromantic unguents, loathsome 
procedures, and repugnant spells to turn them into undead 
creatures. A master of the undead like Tenebrous can even 
shape inhuman creatures like tanar'ri into undead servants - 
hence the visages. 

Most of the books on the shelves detail the anatomy of 
various races and creatures, all from a magical or necroman 
tic point of view. A few contain formulae and procedures for 
preparing corpses, mummification, and undead animation. 

Two doors lead into separate storerooms. One contains 
more chemicals and strange ingredients in small casks, 
pouches, and glass flasks. The other has a few large glass con 
tainers filled with a clear liquid in which float various human 
and humanoid body parts - arms, hands, legs, and even 
heads. The pieces have been preserved for use as needed in 
the horrid surgeries conducted here. 

Many evil wizards and necromancers would pay a hefty 
pile of jink - thousands of gold pieces - for the books and 
materials found in the workroom and the storerooms. But the 
real value of the room is a magical secret door that leads to 
Tenebrous's chamber. If the PCs examine the work tables, the 
DM should make appropriate rolls to see if they find any se 
cret doors. Those who succeed discover that one table slides 
easily to one side. If moved, the table functions as a switch. 


opening a conduitlike corridor (similar to those found 
throughout Tcian Sumere) in the middle of the floor. The berk 
who moved the table is automatically and immediately drawn 
down into the corridor and whisked to Area 11. 

8. PRIS0N I0U + ER Re(c)m) 

If the PCs're searching through Tcian Sumere for the prisoner 
mentioned by the mist mephit, they're on the right track com 
ing here. But before they reach the actual cells in Area 9, they 
must get past the formidable protections of the outer prison 
chamber. 

Because Kestod is such an important captive, the outer 
room is manned at all times by a visage and a flesh golem. The 
golem obeys all commands given by the visage (or any true 
servant of Tenebrous) and, unless told otherwise, automati 
cally attacks any living beings who enter the area. The doors 
on either side of the outer room also obey the visage's verbal 
orders. If it detects intruders or thinks an escape is likely, the 
undead fiend commands the huge iron doors to slam shut. 
Once the valves close, the PCs can open them again only by 
making a successful bend bars/lift gates roll or by destroying 
the doors, which can withstand up to 100 points of damage. 

However, if the visage has its way, the heroes will never 
reach the outer chamber in the first place. See, the room gives 
access to two passages that lead to secret doors in the ap 
proaching hallway. The doors have secret sliding panels that 
let a body view the hallway while hidden. Unless the PCs go 
to extraordinary lengths to mask their approach, the visage is 
aware that they're coming down the hallway. It spies on them 
through one of the secret doors and uses its lucidity-control 
powers against the berks. The fiend might make them think 
the hallway is never-ending, make them think they're moving 
forward when they're actually returning to the place they 
started from, and so on - anything to keep them away from 
the prison. If necessary, the fiend secretly tries to alert other 
visages in Tcian Sumere to the heroes' presence. 

9. PRIS0N (INNER R(c)(c)rTIS) 

The area at the end of the passage is a torture chamber, filled 
with all manner of implements: racks, barbed instruments of 
pain, cauldrons for boiling oil, manacles and cages for prison 
ers, and so on. However, all of these devices show signs of ne 
glect. Fact is, they've never been used, as Tenebrous and his 
servants rarely take captives. 

That's why most of the prison cells are empty. Of the six 
that line the hallway, only one is currently occupied - the 
farthest cell on the right as a body walks in. Inside that cell, a 
visage guards an ancient drow named Kestod. The two wait 
silently, the visage concentrating on using its powers to the 
fullest to keep Kestod from using his. 

See, Kestod's a vampire. Long ago, when he was an ordi 
nary mortal, he was brought from the Prime to serve Kiaransa- 
lee. When the drow goddess deposed Orcus and took over 
Thanatos, she commanded two of her servants - Kestod and 


? 64 ? 



one other - to hide the Wand of Orcus where it would never be 
found. After the pair returned from their task, Kiaransalee 
drowned them both in the River Styx, robbing them of their 
memories so they could never reveal the wand s location. 

Time passed, and eventually Kestod was brought back 
into Kiaransalee s service - this time as a vampire, with little 
or no memory of his former life. Unfortunately, Tenebrous 
found out what Kestod had done and had him captured and 
brought to Tcian Sumere. During his imprisonment, Kestod has 
learned from his tormentors that he and another servant of Ki 
aransalee - a drow named Erehe - hid the Wand of Orcus. But 
thanks to the Styx, Kestod has no idea where they put it. 

That's why Tenebrous wants to obtain the desert's night 
bloom from Baator. The flower restores memories drained by 
the Styx, and Tenebrous hopes it'll make Kestod remember 
where he hid the wand. The proxy Nekrotheptis Skorpios foiled 
the undead fiends' attempt to steal the blossom from Set's 
realm, but Tenebrous has taken matters into his own hands 
(see Interlude II). A1J the visages must do is keep Kestod safely 
imprisoned until their master returns with the desert's night. 

If the PCs peer into Kestod's cell, they see the visage and 
the vampire engaged in an odd game of concentration and 
waiting. 


Inside the dank, dark cell, a ghostly shape hangs in the 
air. a plain white porcelain mask the only corporeal thing 
about it. But the figure isn't facing you - it's focused on the 
cell's other occupant, a sod chained to the Jar wall by hi s 
hands and feet, his body covered in tattered rags. The pris 
oner's Jlcs h has a charcoal hue and his angular features are 
elvish, but there's something about the dark, deep-set eyes 
and elongated canines that makes you realize he's no ordi 
nary elf. 

The arrival of the heroes might break the stalemate. If the 
PCs try to enter the cell, the visage uses its powers to fend 
them off as quickly as it can, hoping to keep the prisoner re 
strained at the same time. But the fiend's got little hope ol 
doing both. If the cutters slay the visage or even occupy it for 
more than two rounds, Kestod uses the opportunity to take on 
a gaseous state. The vampire then floats directly above a 
wooden weapon or weapon shaft that the PCs have with them 
and reforms - committing suicide. 

Kestod's loyalty to Kiaransalee is so strong that there's 
virtually no way to keep him from ending his (un)life. He s 
convinced that as long as he exists there s a chance he could 
unwillingly turn stag on his goddess and reveal the location 






of the Wand of Orcus. Thus, he does all he can to send himself 
to the dead-book. 

Before he dies, though, Kestod tells the PCs - his "sav 
iors" - something that he managed to keep secret from the 
visages. See, the fiends knew that a drow named Erehc was 
involved in hiding the wand, but that was all they could 
learn. Kestod refused to reveal anything else about his former 
comrade. But the vampire knows that Erehe is an important 
wizard located in the Vault of the Drow, a subterranean com 
munity on the prime-material world of Oerth. 

"The other . . . Erehe," whispers the elvish creature, 
weakly. "Vault of the Drow . . . on Oerth. Destroy him, too. He 
must not remember what he's forgotten . . . these fiends need 
the location. Don't let the murderous god win. ..." 

How did Kestod remember anything about Erehe after 
being drowned in the Styx? Simple - he didn't. His chant 
about the other drow is something he picked up after Kiaran- 
salee brought him back as a vampire. 

In any event, the PCs probably feel quite frustrated. They 
found one of the mysterious "perpetrators" only to watch him 
die, and now they must travel to Oerth to seek someone else. 
Chances are, too, that they haven't tumbled to the dark of 
Kestod's and Erehe's roles in the whole scheme, so they won't 
really know why they should chase down the other drow. But 
that's fine. Remember, the cutters shouldn't yet realize what 
Tenebrous is up to - or even that Tenebrous (or Orcus) is the 
villain. All they should know at this point is that the visages 
and their dark master - whoever he is - desperately want 
some information known only to Kestod and Erehe. 

Keeping Kestod Alive. 

If the heroes have absolutely nothing on which the vampire 
can impale himself, or if the DM simply wants to keep him 
alive, Kestod doesn't have to do himself in. Once freed, he can 
assume his mist form and escape through the walls into the 
Negative Energy Plane. Before he goes, though, he still needs 
to tell the PCs about Erehe so the cutters know where to find 
the drow wizard. 

That's no problem. After all, Kestod's loyalty to his god 
dess is such that he'd be willing to fall on a stake so he 
couldn't be forced to spill the beans about the Wand of Orcus. 
And he's just as willing to put Erehe in the dead-book so he 
can't fall victim to the visages, either. Thus, just before the 
vampire turns to mist and (lees Tcian Sumere, he either asks 
the PCs to see to Erehe's death or resolves to kill the drow 
wizard himself. Either way, the heroes learn where to find 
Erehe. 

10. VISAG€S 

If the invading bashers have been so stealthy that they 
haven't yet alerted the undead fiends to their presence in 
Tcian Sumere, they find six visages gathered in this chamber. 


A singular shaft of dark blue light cuts through the cen 
ter of this cylindrical room. The stony walls of the chamber 
have been completely covered in carvings of faces of all sorts, 
so that the entire room is filled with leering, weeping, laugh 
ing, staring images. 

If the visages are here, they're at rest, floating in a ring 
around the shaft of light and staring at it with a complete lack 
of awareness. Fact is, if the fiends haven't been alerted so far, 
they won't even notice intruders in this area for three rounds 
- unless attacked, of course, in which case they immediately 
defend themselves. 

More than likely, however, these six visages will be en 
countered elsewhere in Tcian Sumere, responding to distur 
bances caused by the PCs. Their duty is to watch over the 
fortress, protect it from intruders (though invaders are ex 
tremely rare at best), and make sure everything goes accord 
ing to Tenebrous's desires. 

The shaft of light is virtually all that's left of a servant of 
the former Abyssal lord, a servant all but destroyed centuries 
ago by Kiaransalee. The light used to be a balor named 
Glyphimhor, who ruled an Abyssal city that surrounded the 
old citadel of Orcus. The visages in Tcian Sumere now revere 
Glyphimhor as a mighty servant of their god, and they occa 
sionally come here to rest and focus on his essence. 

If any PC touches the shaft of blue light, the ancient 
spirit of Glyphimhor appears before the group. 

The intensity of the light begins to wane, but as it does, a 
dark shape appears before you - a shriveled husk of an inhu 
man figure. It shudders and shakes feebly, with Jlesh that 
looks like it might once have rippled with muscles now hang 
ing loosely upon weak bones. You think this creature once 
stood over 10 feet tall, but now its stooped body barely reaches 
7 feet. 

7 am Glyphimhor," the figure says quietly, "master of 
Tcian Sumere. Do not be deceived by my appearance. " It raises 
a clawed hand, rotting Jlesh dripping like syrup with each mo 
tion. '7 am still foremost among the servants of the master. I 
also know the ancient magic of Pelion that he wields. My 
words can also slay." Its voice intensifies, as does the light in 
its eyes. "Bow down before me, worms!" 

? Show the players Illo H (on page 172). 

Glyphimhor is bluffing. He doesn't know the secrets of 
his master's magic. 'Course, in his bluff he inadvertently re 
vealed vital clues about the nature of Tenebrous's power (the 
Last Word) and its source (Pelion). 

Truth is, Glyphimhor is nothing but a shade - a virtually 
harmless spirit longing to be more. Kiaransalee let him flee 
Thanatos after her victory over Orcus, but she cursed him to 
forever remain in this defeated and pitiful state. Naturally, 
Glyphimhor made his way to Tcian Sumere, but even his 
newly resurrected master has been unable to restore the balor 
to his former glory. 


? 66 ? 


If challenged, Glyphimhor tries to send his foes away by 
using his suggestion and Jear powers. If physically defeated, he 
simply returns to his state as a shaft of blue light. But il the he 
roes somehow convince Glyphimhor that they can help restore 
him (which won't be easy - all conventional magic has thus far 
failed, so he's not likely to believe them), he turns stag on Tene 
brous. He is, after all, still a tanar'ri, a creature with no true loy 
alties. If convinced, Glyphimhor tells the heroes: 

? His master is Tenebrous, a fallen power come back 
from the dead. 


Tenebrous is killing proxies and 
with magic that he learned in the 
ruins of Pelion. 

Tenebrous needs some vital 
secrets from two drow that long 
ago lost their memories. One 
of the drow is currently held 
in the prison. 


GLYPH I m H(c)R, 
Y(c)U (c)LD F(c)(c) L. 
N(c) (c)NE REmemBERS 
Y(c)U ANYWAY. 


- TtNtBRSUS 


Glyphimhor won't reveal that Tene 
brous was once Orcus, or anything about 
Thanatos or Kiaransalee. And if the PCs really do help the 
tanar'ri, he turns stag on them in the end and tries to de 
stroy them utterly - he is a balor, after all. 

II. T H € mAS + €R'S C H A FT1 B€ R 

This room is difficult to reach, since the corridor that 
leads here is hidden in the floor of Area 7. But it the 
PCs make it here, they find themselves in the chamber 
where Tenebrous himself dwells (if such a term can be applied 
to a power, even one reduced in strength) on the rare occa 
sions when he's actually present in Tcian Sumere. It's similar 
to, but far more modest than, the throne room from which he 
ruled his Abyssal layers. 


baatezu're probably unaware that Tenebrous never cared for 
the Blood War, seeing it as a waste of time and energy.) 

The small pool in front of the throne is a scrying device, 
able to view any area in Tcian Sumere. Currently, it shows the 
prison cell of Kestod, the drow captive. If the PCs haven t yet 
done anything to free Kestod, the pool still shows the prisoner 
and a visage guard. Note that the cutters have no idea how to 
change what's shown in the pool. 

The potted plant is a yellow-blossomed, tri-flower frond, 
a carnivorous plant that attacks any sod who comes 
within 3 feet - that's how far its tendrils can 
reach. The throne falls within this area of at 
tack. The plant tries to induce a coma in its 
victims, coat them with a deadly enzyme, 
and drain their fluids (for details, see the 
plant's statistics in the Appendix). 

Both of the iron doors are 
locked. A human skull is set into 
the center of each door, and if the 
PCs open either jaw, they dis 
cover a keyhole hidden within. 
Only Tenebrous has the keys to 
these locks, but a top-shelf cross 
trader should have no problem pick 
ing them if he so chooses. The doors 
lead to the storeroom (Area 12) and 
the vault (Area 13). 

The throne itself is fairly unremarkable. 
A single black jewel of great size - it appears 
to be a diamond - is set into a cyclopean humanoid 
skull at the top of the throne. If the great sparkle is taken, the 
thiefll find it's worth a great deal of jink - about 8,000 gp. A 
canny basher'll expect it to be magical, though, and it is. The 
jewel functions as a gem of seeing. However, a really canny 
(or peery) blood'll expect it to carry a curse or ill effect, and it 
does. See, Tenebrous set this gem into his throne because he 
can see through it at all times; he can thus view his personal 
chamber even when he's far away. If the PCs take the sparkle 
nlnnc* with them Tenebrous will be aware of everything they 



Red velvet carpeting cutvrs the floor i/i the circular room 
ahead of you. A large throne built of skulls oj all different 
kinds of creatures dominates the chamber, bloating next to it 
is a chessboard , the pieces arranged in mid-game. A small 
pool of still water lies before the throne, while behind it sits a 
large potted plant. Two iron doors suggest exits on the other 
side of the room. 


do. But that's not the worst part. The former Abyssal lord en 
chanted the jewel with a special form of succor ; at any time, 
he can summon its bearer to him. 

Finally, a crude map of Pelion is hidden amid the skulls 
that make up the lower portion of the throne. If the heroes 
search the area, they find the piece of parchment fairly easily. 
The Dungeon Master should show them the map on page 101 
(it appears at the end of Chapter VII, "The Ruins of Pelion ). 


Tenebrous has always been fond of games of strategy. In 
effect, his current schemes are little more than a chess game 
on a multiversal scale, and the pieces on the chessboard by 
the throne are telling. One side is composed of tanar ric and 
undead figures, though the central piece - the king - is no 
ticeably missing. The other side is made up of mortal heroes, 
and prime-material PCs might recognize one or two figures as 
champions of good from the distant pasts of their worlds. 
(Any berk who expected the other side's pieces to be 


12. s + eR€Re(c)m 

This chamber contains a device that Tenebrous stole from the 
prime-material world of Athas. Thousands of years ago on 
that world, a bunch of bashers called the rhulisti developed a 
type of science known as life-shaping. The process involved 
the creation of living beings that could be used as tools, 
weapons, transport, and so on. 


? 67 ? 


Tenebrous hoped to use the life-shaping device to help 
his rebirth. See, in his weakened, undead condition, Tenebrous 
can't create avatars to carry out his will in the physical world. 
All of his godly essence is housed in his semiphysical necro 
mantic state. With the device stolen from Athas, he thought 
he might be able to free enough of his essence to create an 
avatar - or perhaps even trigger a metaphysical change that'd 
restore his normal deific state. 

Neither worked, perhaps because of Tenebrous's tanar'ric 
essence or the fact that he's not a living being. In any case, 
the former Abyssal lord stored the device here so that when 
he had the time, he could take it into the sepulchral and try to 
alter it necromantically. But addle-coved PCs might try to use 
it on themselves. 

The device looks like a 3-foot-high semicircular wall 
made of dry, chitinous flesh. A large, egglike pod is connected 
to the outer rim of the curved wall. An armlike extension pro 
jects upward and inward from the top of the wall, with a cup 
like end. It looks very much like a cutter's head would fit in 
side the cup, though it was obviously meant for shorter folks 
(the rhulisti were halflings). 

The device is able to project a body's mind into a biolog 
ical construct contained within the pod, but the brain-box 
isn't transferred - it's copied. Thus, the user controls both the 
construct and his own body at the same time. If a PC puts his 
head in the cup, the device instantly examines his mind, du 
plicates certain organic structures, and places them in the 


construct. In ld4+l rounds, the humanoid bursts free of the 
casing, and the activator PC starts to experience everything 
both through his own senses and those of the construct. 

Read this to the whole group: 

There's a tearing sound as the large pod on the other side 
of the derice rips open. A figure almost 7 feet in height pulls 
itself out of the egglike easing. covered in organic ichor. Its 
skin is gray and its features humanlike hut poorly shaped - 
like a statue created by a sculptor with little skill for perhaps 
just little concern for aesthetics). 

The activator PC has a slightly different experience. Read 
the following to the berk who stuck his head in the cup: 

Your vision becomes blurry . Suddenly, you see nothing 
but darkness - yet you still see everything around you. You 
feel cramped and ivet - yet you stand perfectly dry and com - 
fortable. Then you break free of your tight surroundings . and 
the darkness is gone. You see ... a tall gray figure. You 
see . . . yourself. 

Here's the dark of it: The sod now controls both the hu 
manoid and his normal body, though with difficulty - fact is, 
it's maddening to experience the world through two different 
sets of senses at the same time. Refer to the Appendix for the 
humanoid's statistics. As for the PC's normal body, each of his 






ability scores is permanently decreased by 1. and his attack 
rolls and saving throws permanently suffer from a -1 modi 
fier. What's more, the construct and the PC are linked. When 
one sleeps, the other must also, and if the two move farther 
apart than 10 feet, both fall unconscious. 

The real problem is that there's no way to reverse the 
process. The sod can't pull his mind out of the humanoid's 
form - he's stuck in two bodies. If one of the bodies is put in 
the dead-book, the basher goes on living in the other, though 
the shock sends him into a coma lasting 2d4 weeks. But the 
PC might not have a choice. Seeing out of two sets of eyes 
will slowly drive him insane over the next 4d4 months. By the 
end of that time period, he'll have to kill one of his two bod 
ies in order to keep his sanity. 

In the meantime, though, the situation can be a boon or a 
curse, depending on how the berk handles things. Having an 
extra body that can operate simultaneously is quite handy. For 
example, a cutter can watch his own back (at least while both 
bodies are awake). 'Course, having an ugly, misshapen human 
oid around all the time is inconvenient at best. 

The life-shaping device works just once, as there's only 
one humanoid construct in the pod. If another PC puts his 
head in the cup, nothing happens. 

13. VAUU + 

This small treasure vault contains four stone urns, a medium 
sized chest, and a sword mounted on the far wall. 

The urns are 5 feet tall and stoppered with large, heavy 
lids. Each contains about 1,000 gp, give or take 3d 10 gp - 
sometimes even undead tanar'ri lords need a little jink. 

The chest is locked; inside, the PCs find a series of long, 
thin compartments. Each compartment contains a wand 
(Tenebrous loves 'em) that's shaped like a scepter and nearly 
the size of a magical rod. The booty includes: a wand of magic 
missiles (8 charges), a wand of trap detection (29 charges), a 
wand of illusion (4 charges), a wand of illumination (24 
charges), and a wand of fear (10 charges). 

However, the wands are protected. On the interior of the 
chest's lid is a plaque written in an ancient, evil tongue (deci 
pherable with a comprehend languages spell or a successful 
ancient languages proficiency check). The plaque reads: 
"Claim what's yours, now and forever." In order to take a 
wand safely, a PC must grab it selfishly and proclaim it to be 
his. Trying to remove a wand otherwise results in the thief 
suffering 3d4 points of electrical damage. 

It's also important to note that the plaque says "forever." 
See, once a berk successfully claims a wand, he suffers a one 
time punishment (3d4 points of damage) if he ever tries to sell 
it, trade it, give it away, or otherwise rescind his ownership - 
even after the wand's been drained of charges. If a cross 
trader steals the wand, the poor PC still suffers 3d4 points of 
damage. Once claimed, the wand is his. (This is Tenebrous s 
strange idea of a joke, but it also exemplifies his religion's 
tenet that "What's mine is mine.") 

Apart from the urns and the chest, the only other item of 


importance is a notched and slightly rusted sword hanging on 
the far wall. This old weapon is one of the few treasures Tene 
brous's servants managed to liberate from Thanatos when Ki- 
aransalee took over. 

The weapon is the Orcusword , an ancient blade wielded 
by Orcus long before he created his infamous wand. Chant is 
he used the sword eons ago when he was still just a balor, and 
that he let his greatest servant - greatest proxy once Orcus 
achieved godhood - use it temporarily. When the Abyssal lord 
died, the weapon lost much of its potency, though Tenebrous 
still keeps it as a sign of what has come before - and what can 
still be. He believes that once he regains his former status, the 
blade will resonate with its original power. 

Currently, though, the weapon is a long sword +3 (forged 
in the Abyss) with the ability to cause double damage on a 
roll of a natural 20. On a roll of a natural 1, the sword breaks. 



Interestingly. Tenebrous's connection to the blade is somehow 
greater than even his link to his phylactery. Breaking the 
sword causes him a great deal of pain, enough to distract him 
for a few hours from whatever he's doing. If the PCs got into 
a dire situation where they had to confront the undead power, 
they could break the sword and distract Tenebrous long 
enough to escape. 'Course, anyone leatherheaded enough to 
wind up facing Tenebrous directly probably wouldn't tumble 
to such a plan. 

Ni If the heroes break the Orcusword right away, 
Tenebrous immediately feels the pain of the loss, and, after re 
turning to Tcian Sumere and learning what he can about the 
intruders, plots their gruesome deaths. But he won't allow 
his fury to distract him just yet - there'll be plenty of time 
for vengeance once he's recovered the Wand of Orcus. 


? C SC A PC ? 

Unless the heroes have the power to travel the planes on their 
own, the only way they can leave Tcian Sumere is the same way 
they came - back through the portal to Ranais. From there, it's 
a simple matter of walking back to the portal to Sigil. 

If the PCs talked to Kestod in the prison, they might head 
next to the Vault of the Drow (Chapter VI). On the other hand, 
if they were canny enough to get the chant from Glyphimhor, 
or pick up on other clues in the fortress, they might journey to 
Pelion instead (Chapter VII). It doesn't matter which spot they 
visit first. The two chapters can occur in either order, as 
shown on the flowchart on the inside back cover of Dead 
Gods. The DM should just make sure he's familiar with both 
chapters, especially their starting points. 


? 69 ? 



Interlude 11 



THE + RIJE rTlEASURE 
(c)F EVIL IS 

+ he C0N + EmP+ 1+ HAS 
EVEN f(c)r l + SELF. 

- KLASANDRAU. 
a HI (c) N A D I C DEVA 


The last few had perished on the end of his own 
blade. 

That was assuming, of course, that the things 
could die. Nekrotheptis Skorpios looked out across the Midnight Desert. 
Ankhwugaht was always dark, but the proxy's eyes adjusted well. He'd 
made his home here for over 20 centuries and had learned to adapt to its 
mannerisms as he would to those of a mate, if he had one. He knew - 
without conceit, he told himself - that Set (may he be praised and feared) 
had chosen him well. 

The apparitions that assaulted the realm of late were disconcerting. Horri 
ble things had made their way into Ankhwugaht before - this was 
Baator, after all - but these were something new. These things 
tried to reach into the minds of others, tried 
to twist and master them. Skorpios 
could not abide such tactics. He 
was a tooth and claw man, as they 
said in the realm, and he liked his 
opponents the same way. 

The proxy squatted down, consumed by 
his dark musings, gently pushing sand about with his 
khopesh sword. His clothing was the color of night, almost as dark as his hair, 
but not nearly as black as his eyes. Apart from his weapon and the prize in his 
pocket, he carried nothing. The realm provided him with all he needed. 

He scanned the desen again. A shiny black scorpion crossed into his line of 
sight, about a hundred yards ahead of him. The regal warrior leaped up and 
crossed the distance quickly enough to snatch the creature before it lost itself in 
the sand. 

"Ah, little nas klium ." he said to the scorpion in his hand, "tell me if you 
have seen anything new to the desert this day." His voice, though crisp and 
clipped, sounded like gravel being crushed by a heavy rock. 

"My lord," the scorpion replied, "I have seen much this day. Things have 
come to the Midnight Desert seeking that which grows here. These things ignore 
one such as nas khum, but I fear they would not feel my sting, anyway, should 
it come to that." 

"Yes, little ally. Your words are true. Now hide in the sand and watch for 
these creatures. Report to me if you see more of them - and thank the Master 
that I have this duty for you and am not hungry." 

"Yes, lord. Thank you, lord." The scorpion scuttled away as soon as Skor 
pios set it down. A smile almost crossed the proxy's solid, chiseled jaw. It was 
good to be the right hand of Set (may he be praised and feared). 

Suddenly, a chill wind blew across his face, banishing for a moment the dry 
heat rising from the coarse sand. Skorpios reached into the pocket at his breast 
and pulled out a tiny red Dower, a blossom the people of Ankhwugaht called 
desert's night. Few outsiders knew it even existed, so the fact that the invaders 
were looking for it meant - at the very least - that the creatures were well-in 
formed. 


But what did they want it for? Skorpios knew, of course, that desert's night 
could be prepared as part of an herbal drink that brought back memories stolen by 
the River Styx. Such a flower could not grow here in Ankhwugaht without the 
Master's strict attention and desire, so Skorpios was sure that Set (may he be 
praised and feared) must at one time have had need of such a potion. 

"Oh, little proxy. So devoted to your twice-damned excuse for a master." 

Skorpios whirled around to face the speaker of such effrontery. How had 
such a blasphemous villain come so close without his knowledge? He set his feet 
firmly on the ground, one slightly ahead of the other, ready to spring at his foe. 
But what he saw startled him. 


? 70 ? 




It was as if someone had 
taken a man and squeezed him until all 
the light was wrung out like water, leaving only the 
purest of darknesses. The intruder on the sands had the 
form of a large man - gaunt as though from a long ill 
ness - who had never experienced illumination (or per 
haps had driven it from himself completely). The invader 

carried no weapon and made no move to strike, yet there was something inher 
ently threatening about him. Too stunned to attack - at least for the moment - 

Skorpios just stared. Who was this? 

The blasphemer spoke again. "Nckrotheptis Skorpios, proxy of Set. He said the words 
as if granting Skorpios his name and title here and now, a gift the Master had already given 
two thousand years ago. The proxy clenched his teeth and prepared to leap into combat. "You have 

something that 1 want/ 

Again Skorpios paused. He would do well to learn the creature s motives before killing him. Speak, 
thing of darkness and invader of the Midnight Desert, the realm of Master Set, may he be praised and - 
"Silence!" Yellow eyes flared from daggers to swords as the intruder raised his hands in rage. Only 
then did Skorpios realize that the being before him was one of incredible power - power far, far greater 
than his own. The dark thing, though not the equal of Set (may he be praised and feared), was virtually a 

deity in his own right. 

Nekrotheptis Skorpios knew fear. 

"I am Tenebrous, though you would know 
me by a different name. I desire the little 
weed. You have slain or driven off the 
emissaries I sent to retrieve it. Now 
1 have come myself, and you are 


doomed." With that. Tenebrous 
spoke the Last Word. Uncere 
moniously, without the dig 
nity of his station or the 
honor of battle, Skorpios 
crumpled like an insect be 
neath a careless boot. His 
khopesh sword clattered on 
the sandy rocks. 

Tenebrous reached down 
to the tumbled mound of 
limbs and clothing and 
plucked the desert's 
night from what used to 
be the proxy's hand. 
For a moment, he 
gazed at the 
simple flower, 
wondering at the 
irony of some 
thing so small and 
insignificant provid 
ing him with so much. 

No matter. He had 
the blossom now. Noth 
ing could stand in his 
way. The prisoner in Tcian 
Sumere would reveal the 
secret. The wand would be 


hie aefain. 


? 71 ? 


Chapter VI: 
The VA^IT 

(c)f +h" DR(r)W 




the VAUL + 

(c)F + HE DR(c)W - 
PR00F P0SI + IVE +ha+ 
Y0U N E E D N ' + G0 

+ (c) +HE 

L0WER PLANES 
+ 0 FIND +he m(c)S + 
DEGENERA+E S0R + 
(c)f EVIL. 


Sounds of battle greeted his ears. The ringing of 
metal against metal echoed off the cold stone 
trails, losing nothing in intensity. His forces 

had been driven hack, and the fighting was close. Erelte knew it was time 
to flee. 

He haled it when a situation arose that his magic 
couldn 't overcome - und hate was something he knew well. 
Nevertheless, nothing he could do would make the Great Gate 
of F.relhci-Cinlu fall this day. The fiends within the city pro 
vided the Kilsck defenders with too much power. 

Still, the House of Tomttor could conjure a few fiends of its own. raise 
its own undeatl army. Then the forces would return to Erelhei-Cinlu and dis 
play severed kilsck heads on their standards as they took the draw 
city. Erelte and his mistress would revel in the delicious 
pleasure of seeing their enemies suffer torture and 
humiliation. The Mother of Lusts 
would lose her strangle 
hold on the Vault of 
the Drow. The rise of 
the House of Tormtor - 
the rise of Erehe (and, of 
course, his mistress Verdactlt) 
- would begin. 

Rut he was getting ahead of himself. Erehe knew that one could come back 
from the seemingly all-devouring jaws of utter defeat. (Indeed, he once walked the 
path of the dead himself, though he remembered none of it.) Thus, before he could 
truly feel victorious, each and every Kilsck and all of their allies had to be killed, 
their bodies destroyed for all to witness. Only then would Erehe know jov. 

Verdactlt cared only for restoring her consort 's missing past. But Erehe fo 
cused his efforts on gaining success in the present - and the sweet syrup of 
domination that would come in the future. 


? NEW BEGINNINGS ? 


When the player characters leave Tcian Sumere, they hopefully do so with the 
knowledge that the one person who might know what's going on is a basher 
named Erehe, found in the Vault of the Drow on the world of Oerth. The 
Dungeon Master should remember, however, that even at this stage of the ride, 
the characters shouldn't know the dark of it all. Sure, they know to look 

- phiL(c) + $my I u ra me n + foradrownamcdErehe ' buttheydon,tknowhcwasoneoftheberks 

PRimF ADVFKI + III1FB wbo ^' d ^ Wand oE 0rcus - At most - tbe y know he's somehow linked to 

KMIIfc AUVtNtURtR Kestod the vampire, and that he's forgotten something that the visages 

want to recover. But they still shouldn't think to connect it to either Tenebrous 
or Orcus - fact is, they're probably still wondering whose fortress it was they 
explored in the previous chapter. 

Depending on the PCs, getting to the Vault of the Drow can be easy or hard. 
Naturally, they first have to ask around or conduct research to determine what 
and where the Vault is. If any of the heroes are primes from Oerth, they might 
even know of a portal or conduit leading to that world. Unfortunately, any por 
tal they find probably leads to the surface of Oerth, and the journey from the 
surface to the Vault - a subterranean cavern miles under the ground - could 
take months. 

No, it's better to go to Sigil (ain't it always?) and dig up the chant on the 
quickest route to the Vault. It's a trip that leads first to the town of Plague-Mort. 
then onto the first layer of the Abyss and down to the 66th, otherwise known as 


? 72 ? 







the Demonweb Pits. Finally, a 
conduit goes from the Demonweb right 
into the Vault. 

Now, most folks'll balk at the idea of going to the 
Abyss - in particular the realm of Lolth - but it's not as 
bad as it sounds. Really. One of Lolth's proxies, a blood 
named Declava (Px/yochlol/HD 6+6/CE), has been buying 
lots of weapons in Sigil lately and shipping them to the Vault of the Drow. No 
body knows why, and nobody much cares. Lolth's jink is just as good as anyone 
else's. But the deliveries give the PCs a chance to get to where they need to go. Currently, 
a merchant caravan loaded down with weapons is preparing to depart the Cage and travel 
to the Vault by way of the Demonweb. They're even looking to hire on a few bashers as min 
ders; after all, arms shipments are always at risk from Blood War raiders. More than a few chant-mon 
gers in Sigil know the dark of the trip and, if properly garnished, will pass that knowledge on to the PCs. 
Thus, the heroes can get to the Vault and earn a little jink on the side. 


THC CURRCN+ CHAN + 

Before leaving Sigil, the PCs likely catch a bit of the current chant. Even more than before, the Cage is 
aflame with rumors and innuendo about the mysterious deaths of important figures throughout the 
planes. For example, distraught priests of Camaxtli (a god of fate) feel certain that their deity has fallen. 
A 
few days ago they attacked the Shattered Temple, the headquarters of the Athar, thinking that the Lost 
were to blame. Many innocent sods on both sides were injured or put in the dead-book before the Har 
monium broke up the fight. At present, most folks're holding their breaths, waiting fearfully to see what 
happens next. 

The PCs might also hear that a few planewalkers have reported feeling a strange beckoning while 
passing through the Astral. Although they were able to resist the call, the experience was unnerving. But 
no one's gone to the Silver Void to investigate further, and no one seems to know exactly who the 
"plane- 
walkers" were. Here's the dark of it: The strange pull is the work of the Guardian of the Dead Gods, he 
who 
was Anubis, in his attempt to summon aid. The PCs won't meet the Guardian until Chapter IX. 

Though the heroes probably just trundle off with the merchant caravan and ignore all of the latest 
chant, the DM should feel free to expand on the growing tensions in the Cage for side adventures. If Part 
Two of "Into the Light" hasn't been used yet, the DM can run it before the cutters leave for the 
Demonweb. 

Noti Tenebrous is well aware of the fact that Sigil's abuzz with rumors of his handiwork. He knows 
that someone will discover his secret plans sooner or later, and this spurs him on to quicker, rasher 
actions 
now. 


? TH€ I0URNCY ? 

Quavois Faithminder (PI/9 bariaur/M4/Fated/N) is the head of the merchant caravan traveling to the 
Demonweb and then on to the Vault of the Drow. She's willing to pay 100 gp to any basher who'll help 
guard her cargo - magical weapons recently created at Zess's Forge (on the Astral Plane). Quavois doesn 
t 
give the PCs any more information than that. The bariaur brooks no nonsense and displays no humor. 
She's gruff and businesslike, but quite capable. Her long locks are tied into a single braid that'd reach the 
ground if she didn't tuck it into the belt at her waist. 

The caravan consists of four small wagons, each pulled by a mule and loaded down with locked iron 
chests. Ten servants (laborers and mule-tenders) and six minders (in addition to the PCs) accompany 
Qua 
vois. Each person provides and carries his own supplies and weapons, and if the characters want 
mounts, 
they must obtain them on their own. The wagons' chests hold a total of 500 crossbow bolts +2 , 50 short 
swords +2, 25 maces +2, 10 short swords +3 , five maces +3 , three short swords +4, and one mace +4 
(all 
forged on the Astral). Obviously, the value of this cargo is incredible, but for a goddess such as Lolth, 
gold 
is nothing. 


? 73 ? 


The wagons follow a path through Sigil to a wide portal 
in the Lower Ward, which takes them to a spot on the Out- 
lands just outside of Plague-Mort (the gate-town that leads to 
the Abyss). Quavois then leads the group into Plague-Mort 
and through another portal that deposits them on the barren 
Plain of Infinite Portals, the first layer of the Abyss. From 
there, the caravan heads into a sloping crevice that winds its 
way deep underground, eventually passing through a portal 
to the 66th layer. That's where Lolth's servant Declava is sup 
posed to meet the group and direct them to the conduit to 
Oerth. 

THR0UGH +HC ABYSS 

Though Plague-Mort's no vacation spot, the PCs probably 
don't see much trouble until they reach the Plain of Infinite 
Portals. Naturally, under normal circumstances, a trek 
through the Abyss would be extremely dangerous. But Qua 
vois knows a lot of tricks and is willing to garnish the right 
bloods and high-ups to ensure a relative amount of safety - 
not to mention the fact that few flends'd dare assault a deity's 
cargo. 

If desired, the Dungeon Master could include a few en 
counters with tanar'ri or raiders (or tanar'ri raiders) in which 
the PCs need to use their wits or their chivs to save the day 
and earn their jink. The Plain of Infinite Portals is also home 
to: 

? Tanar'ri lords that maintain iron citadels and wage war 
on one another. If the heroes aren't careful, they could 
easily find themselves marked as enemy spies by a 
peery high-up or (if the DM's in a really nasty mood) 
sucked into a fiendish fray. 

? Forests of viper trees, often planted by tanar'ri to guard 
important citadels, portals, and the like. 

? Ruined cities - towns long ago pulled from the Out- 
lands into the Abyss - teeming with scavengers, op 
portunists, and exiles (including manes, tieflings, cra 
nium rats, armanites, and mortal mercenaries). 

? The unforgiving burg known as Broken Reach, which 
is ruled by a succubus named Red Shroud and pa 
trolled by molydei looking for Blood War deserters. 

'Course, the DM could put the PCs off their guard by 
making the trip through hazardous and frightening territory 
completely uneventful. Sure, the group should have encoun 
ters, but not everything needs to be a struggle. Maybe peery 
tanar'ri lords (or other Abyssal high-ups) send fiendish spies 
to watch the caravan closely but make no move against it. 

N- in For more details on the Plain of Infinite Portals, 
refer to the Planes of Chaos boxed set and the Planescape(r) ad 
venture In the Abyss (2605). 


IN + 0 +HE Dtm(c)NWEB Pl + S 

Once they reach the Demonweb, the PCs - ironically - 
couldn't be safer. Declava's been ordered by Lolth herself to 
make sure the weapons are delivered promptly, so no one in 
the power's realm dares come near the caravan. 

It seems as if you've been traveling forever, but that's 
probably just a quirk of the Abyss. Eventually, though, the 
wagons roll into a cold, humid care - a shallow depression in 
the side of what appears to be a huge, rocky cliff face. Stretch 
ing out into the darkness before you is an unimaginably huge 
silver web, glistening with moisture. A dark-skinned elvish 
woman of cold beauty stands calmly and silently on the u eb. 
her bare feet resting on the strands as though they were solid 
ground. 

It seems quiet enough. Then you hear skittering sounds 
from above and behind. You see shapes moving in the dark 
ness. And you realize: All around you arc spiders of gigantic 
size, watching you with countless eves. 

Declava greets Quavois and begins to lead the wagons 
across the web. The proxy is darkly beautiful, with features 
that seem too delicate to touch for fear they'd break. In real 
ity, she's as tough a cutter as a body could find. As long as 
she's present, the caravan has no trouble moving across the 
web, despite the fact that it seems to be nothing more than a 
tangled skein of thin, sticky strands. 

As they move through the Demonweb, peery bashers 
note that far off in the distance - probably many miles into 
the web itself - a giant, spidery form seems to watch them. 
Considering how big it seems at this distance, the spider'd 
have to be at least half a mile long! But this monstrosity is ac 
tually the mobile, animate fortress of Lolth, the inside of 
which no cutter ever wants to see. 

After traveling for a good while, Declava leads the cara 
van into another cave on the side of yet another cliff anchor 
ing the web. Within, a winding, moving corridor made of 
webbing snakes through a starry night sky that's almost sil 
very. Another yochlol - this one in its natural amorphous 
form (a horrible mass of gelatinous flesh with eyes and 
pseudopods) - stands guard but wordlessly lets the wagons 
pass. 

As the group enters the silken corridor, Declava tells 
them they're taking a conduit that leads to the Fane of Lolth 
in the Vault of the Drow. Canny bloods will notice that the 
conduit looks much like one they might find on the Astral - 
except, of course, that this one's made of spider webs. The 
same bloods might also recall that most conduits connect the 
Prime to just the first layer of an Outer Plane, yet this conduit 
links the 66th layer of the Abyss with Oerth. The path exists 
mainly through the will of Lolth; many similar false conduits 
lead from the Demonweb to the prime-material worlds of her 
worshipers. 


? 74 ? 


THC VAUL+ (c)f= 

? + H€ DR(c)W ? 

The Vault of the Drow is a grand cavern, approximately six 
miles across, deep under the surface of Oerth. (Refer to the map 
of the Vault on the poster sheet.) Filled with phosphorescent 
fungi and strange, glowing minerals, this underground cham 
ber has a subterranean beauty unlike any other. Within this 
dark fairyland, the sinister, malevolent forces of the drow rule. 

They control a fantastic (albeit vile and corrupt) city at 
the heart of the Vault, as well as strong fortresses, fabulous 
manors, military encampments, huge mercantile facili 
ties, and fungus farms. Seven noble houses and 
16 merchant clans each claim territory in the 
Vault, each struggling for su 
premacy, or at least superiority. 

Not surprisingly, though, the 
real power here's held by 
the priestesses of Lolth. 

Many years ago, 
there were eight 
noble houses. The 
most powerful of 
them, the House of 
Eilservs, tried to take 
control of the Vault • 
and put into place a 
new religion - wor- . 
ship of the Elder Ele 
mental God. They 
had a brilliant 
scheme to es- . 
tablish a pup- 
pet kingdom on 
the surface of . 

Oerth, but the 
upper-worlders de 
stroyed the giants 
they used as pawns. The 
noble house fell, and the 
priestesses of Lolth man 
aged to keep their tenuous hold 
on power. But the changes wrought by 
the attempt were enough to allow Kiaransalee, goddess-of 
vengeance and the undead, to gain a foothold in the Vault of 
the Drow, which led to events far more destructive yet. 

RECCN+ H1S + 0RY 

After the fall of the House of Eilservs, its ally - the House pf 
Tormtor - was relegated to minor status. It was a simple mat 
ter for priestesses of Kiaransalee to approach Tormtor and 
turn them to the ways of the goddess of vengeance. In ex 
change for the service of a drow named Erehe (the consort of 
Verdaeth, ruler of the House of Tormtor), the priestesses prom 
ised Tormtor vengeance upon the houses that supported Lolth. 


Part of Erehe's service included disposing of the wand 
Kiaransalee took from Orcus after she slew him. Afterward, 
the goddess had the poor sod drowned in the River Styx so 
he'd forget what he'd done. But Verdaeth missed her consort 
greatly, so Kiaransalee allowed her to resurrect Erehe with a 
scroll. What was the harm? After all, the drow had no mem 
ory of his previous life. 

'Course, Verdaeth was dismayed by the fact that Erehe 

didn't remember her 
either. She searched 
the multiverse for 
magic to restore his 
memory, even making 
contacts among the 
githyanki. Mean 
while, her new al 
lies in the Vault 
convinced her 
that the other 
houses not only 
were at fault for 
the House of Torm- 
tor's low position, 
but also were 
concealing the 
magic needed to 
restore Erehe's 
memories. 

The forces 
of Lolth didn't 
take that lying 
t down. They 

* noticed Ver- 

daeth's activi 
ties and con 
vinced the other 
houses that blas 
phemous Tormtor 
must be wiped 
out. 

To every 
one's surprise, 
though, the githyanki got 
involved. See, they'd long sought a stronghold on Oerth, and 
they saw the renegade House of Tormtor as an ideal power 
base in the Vault of the Drow. The scheming githyanki some 
how managed to bring the houses of Everhate &nd Aleval to 
the side of Tormtor (though not entirely to the worship of Ki 
aransalee, which wasn't their goal). That plunged the Vault 
into a drowic civil war. Fact is, the worship of Kiaransalee, al 
ways done in secret, was more widespread than the drow ever 
realized. Thus, the anti-Tormtor faction quickly found itself 
reeling from githyanki-supported attacks. 

Things got even more complicated.when illithids from a 
nearby section of the subterranean world began to secretly 
support the drow who warred against Tormtor. After all, gith- 



? 75 ? 







yanki hate illithids passionately. The mind flayers had cause 
to worry that if a githyanki-friendly regime took control of 
the Vault, they'd spur the drow on to attack the illithids. 

So now the Vault of the Drow is gripped by war. The Ki- 
aransalee/Tormtor/githyanki alliance has the upper hand, but 
it seems likely that the illithid involvement will balance 
things enough to greatly prolong the conflict. 

As an (important) aside, one of the githyanki managed to 
help Verdaeth restore Erehe's memories, though in a small 
way. See, he used forms of the psionic abilities object reading 
and sensitivity to psychic impressions to "read" a ring that 
Erehe had worn in his past life - and continued to wear after 
his resurrection. Through the ring, Verdaeth learned that 
Erehe and another drow named Kestod were killed in the 
River Styx after they buried the Wand of Orcus in Agathion 
(the fourth layer of Pandemonium). 

Verdaeth never told Erehe what she learned about his 
past, and she put the githyanki who helped her in the dead- 
book. She knows she's stumbled across chant that's extremely 
dangerous. The fewer berks who know the truth, the better. 


? the spells teleport and teleport without error are limited 
to a maximum range of one mile; and 

? the spells light and continual light produce only a faint 
brownish glow, rather than a nimbus of bright light. 

Both of these restrictions may impede the planewalkers' 
activities in the Vault, but neither hinders the drow, who hate 
light anyway and have grown accustomed to the one-mile 
limitation on teleportation. 

Because of the size of the Vault of the Drow, this chapter 
is considerably more open-ended than others. The PCs might 
try any number of things, especially once they realize they're 
caught in the middle of a complex war. The Dungeon Master 
is cautioned strongly to be aware of this fact and prepare for 
the possibility that the heroes might stay in the Vault for a 
long time. 

? THC f AN € 0F L.0U+H ? 


WHA+ TCNCBR0US KN0WS 

Even if Tenebrous has tumbled to Erehe's identity, he's wary 
of coming to the Vault of the Drow himself. Kiaransalee fo 
cuses much of her attention here, and she's probably espe 
cially peery ever since the visages kidnapped Kestod. 

'Course, it's likely that Tenebrous now knows that the 
PCs are involved. They were just at his very own case, after 
all. If he's somehow aware of the fact that they're also looking 
for Erehe, he might let them do his work for him - especially 
if they took the gem of seeing from his throne, as it lets him 
spy on what they're doing. 

Even if the characters found out about Erehe's location 
in such a way that Tenebrous did not, he eventually tumbles 
to the dark from some other source. Thus, if the heroes don't 
reach the Vault of the Drow fairly quickly. Tenebrous sends 
two or three visages to apprehend Erehe (regardless of Kiaran- 
salee's peeriness). The undead fiends might use their lucidity- 
control powers to trick the drow into leaving the Vault before 
they scrag him - just to be safe. 

Dm N0+CS 

Even folks on the Outer Planes flap their bone-boxes about 
the skill with which the dark elves of the Prime Material Plane 
make magical items and weapons. In the Vault of the Drow, 
one of the secrets to this creation is the presence of strange 
energies within the cavern. Without these energies, drow 
armor and weapons eventually crumble. 

However, these energies have at least two other 
effects on the 
local 
area: 



The Fane of Lolth is a five-story, pagoda-shaped building 
that's ornately and dreadfully decorated with a spider motif. 
The outside is adorned with unmentionable scenes of fiends, 
spiders, and death. Inside, everywhere a body turns, a spidery 
tapestry or fiendish carving leers at him, and the stairs that 
lead from floor to floor look like a web. 

The first level of the Fane is the main temple, with altars 
for sacrifices. Two to four guards (female warriors) are sta 
tioned in each of the guard rooms, and 11 to 16 servants - 
sods who clean the temple and wait on the inhabitants - 
bunk in each of the slave chambers. 

The second floor is for the temple troops; over a hundred 
warriors (all 2nd- to 8th-level) call kip here. But because it's a 
time of war, almost a hundred more bashers mill about out 
side the Fane in the cavern known as the Egg of Lolth (see 
below). 

The other levels are reserved for the high-ups that keep 
things running. On the third floor live the eight priestesses (all 
4th- to 9th-level) who staff the Fane. The fourth level holds 
administrative offices and 
the quarters of Pel- 
lanistra (Pr/9 
drow/F8/CE), 

the commander of the temple 
troops and an important figure in the 
war. Finally, Charinida (Pr/9 drow/Pl4 
[Lolth]/CE), leader of the eight priestesses, 
has the top floor all to herself. 

Moreover, the temple boasts guardian undead 
(mostly ghouls and ghasts), giant black widow spiders that 
roam freely, and gargoyles that roost on the outside. All of 
the temple high-ups have top-shelf magical items and weap 
ons. Only an addle-cove is going to mess around here. 


? 76 ? 



THC HER0CS ARRIVE 


When Declava leads the PCs through the Demonweb's spider 
web conduit, they emerge in the first level of the Fane, at the 
other end of the main temple (refer to the map of the Fane on 
the poster sheet). 


The journey through the conduit is disorienting, hut it 
lasts only a few heartbeats . On the other end. you find yourself 
in a large diamond-shaped room with stone trails and a black 
floor, with weblike traceries of white . Directly ahead of you is 
an amber-colored column of light 20 feet across. within which 
a gigantic spidery creature floats, facing away from you. 


The image of the gigantic spider - for that's all it is - 
represents Lolth. The PCs have little time to look around, 
however, as two priestesses (Pr/$ drow/P4[Lolth]/CE) and six 
warriors (Pr/9 drow/F3/CE) quickly step forward to unload 
the goods from the caravan's wagons. 

If any bashers were wondering why Lolth's been import 
ing weapons, the answer's now clear. The whole area sur 
rounding the Fane seems to have been ravaged by war - even 
the temple itself has suffered damage. (In describing the devas 
tation of the battle, the DM should remember that destructive 
spells and rampaging summoned monsters are as common as 
conventional assaults and sieges.) Any members of the cara 
van with the dark of the drow know them to be weaponsmiths 
of the highest order, so things must be dire indeed if the 
bloods've stooped to im 
porting the stuff. 

'Course, none of 
that's supposed to be the 
PCs' concern. They were 
hired merely to help 
guard the wagons, 
and now that the 
cargo has been de 
livered safely, 

Quavois pre 
pares the car 
avan for the 
return trip 
through 
the con 
duit. She 
doesn't 


care if the PCs don't go back with her. The bashers did their 
job. and she gives them their jink without a word. The weap 
ons have been shipped, so she no longer has any need for 
minders. 

Naturally, staying in the Vault ain't as easy as all that. If 
the heroes want to stick around, they've either got to slip 
away from the priestesses (a difficult task, as they're ex 
tremely peery of outsiders) or rattle their bone-boxes with a 
fair amount of guile. 

Unfortunately, though the berks have no way of knowing 
this, asking about Erehe at the Fane is a bad idea. The priest 
esses know his name all too well and angrily respond: "What 
do you want with that traitorous worm?" Quick thinkers'll re 
alize that Erehe is on the other side of the conflict and answer 
appropriately. If the PCs tell the drow that they've come to 
scrag Erehe, slay him, or otherwise do him harm, they get the 
chant on his location. 


"That one's the consort of Verdaeth, leader of the dis 
graced House of Tormtor. They're usually together - cither in 
their manor or on the field of battle. 

Right now. that field is found just 
outside the walls of the city." 


? 77 ? 











That's as friendly as the priestesses of Lolth get. They 
don't let the group spend any more time in the Fane than is 
necessary, and they don't provide any more assistance - no 
matter what. The only reason they tolerate the nondrow bash 
ers at all is that they come from another plane, which puts 
them in the same rank as the tanar'ri or the yugoloths 
(whom they respect if not trust). 

Leaving the Fane itself, the planewalkers 
enter what's known as the Egg of Lolth, the 
large cavern that houses the five-story 
temple. The place has a strange reddish and 
green glow, making it distinctly non-Prime 
in appearance; some berks may wonder if 
they've really left the Abyss after all. To one side 
stands a ruined building of yellow stone, a military strong 
hold that looks like it used to be a despicably carved lesser 
temple. As mentioned above, a hundred or so female drow 
warriors move about the Egg, obviously ready to defend the 
Fane from attack. 

A wide passage - like the Fane, decorated with stomach- 
churning carvings and bas relief depictions of foul practices - 
leads out of the Egg, winds through the earth for over a mile, 
and comes out into the Vault of the Drow itself. The roof of 
the gigantic cavern is shaped naturally like a dome. Where it 
meets the Vault's walls, it's a few hundred feet high, but at its 
center, the roof is thousands of feet above the ground. 

If you didn't know the Vault of the Drow was an under 
ground chamber, you'd swear that you 'd just stepped outside 
into a dark night. The cavern must he many miles across, for 
the side walls exist only as distant gray blurs - if those blurs 
are the walls at all. It 's difficult to tell, for the light here is 
dim, just a faint pale lavender glow /probably from some 
phosphorescent fungi). The ceiling of the cavern, which must 
be thousands of feet high, is riddled with strange, glowing 
mineral deposits that shine like stars. In the far distance, the 
sounds of battle ring through the cavern. 

? Show the players Illo I (on page 173). 

The passage from the Egg opens into an area of the Vault 
where the noble houses keep their palaces and maintain es 
tates. The boundaries between estates are marked by well- 
groomed brakes of fungi. This fungi also grows high on either 
side of the road that currently stretches ahead of the PCs. 

? TH€ UPPCR VAUL+ ? 

Ever since the House of Eilservs fell, the Vault of the Drow has 
had only seven noble houses (described below), though it still 
has eight estates. 'Course, the one that belonged to Eilservs is 
nothing but ruin and rubble, but the other seven are still well 
maintained. They make up the area known as the Upper Vault, 
which sits on a plateau just above the walled city of Erelhei- 
Cinlu (see "Erelhei-Cinlu," below). The Flying Bridge connects 


the plateau with the Noble Gate, one of 
the main points of entry into the burg. 

Each estate consists of a fortified palace 
and a tract of land that includes a large area 
of open terrain. In simpler days, the nobles 
used these fields to hunt escaped slaves with 
displacer beasts and conduct huge parties of de 
bauchery and evil. Now the areas are dangerous 
battlefields strewn with bodies of the fallen. 

At the center of each estate sits a palace, the size 
and grandeur of which is dictated by the size and power of 
the respective noble house. Most of the drowic civil war has 
been fought in and around these palaces. Each is surrounded 
by a large wall that connects to various outbuildings such as 
small villas, barracks, stables, menageries, and numerous 
slave pens. What's more, the palaces themselves - which 
have 30 or more rooms - are defensible structures meant to 
withstand attack even if the outer walls fall to the enemy. 

While in the Upper Vault, the PCs're likely to run across a 
great deal of trouble. If the bashers keep to the roads, they 
come upon armed patrols, war parties, and small merchant 
caravans with goods loaded on giant pack lizards. Any drow 
encountered on the roads always have an allegiance to one 
side of the conflict or the other, and they attack any sods who 
seem to be enemies. Even PCs who claim neutrality might be 
scragged for good measure and taken to one of the palaces for 
questioning - remember, all drow are peery of outsiders. 

If the PCs venture off the roads, they might run into wild 
displacer beasts, giant spiders, subterranean lizards, escaped 
slaves (of any race), spies, or, again, war parties. In such en 
counters, the bashers can expect to be attacked by any intelli 
gent force they meet. 

While moving about the estates, the characters could 
also have a beneficial meeting with a svirfneblin, or deep 
gnome, named Viigo (Pr/cJ deep gnome/F6/N). He's a bitter 
man who hates the drow more than he loves his own life. 
Viigo has dark eyes, a short white beard, and skin the color of 
eggshells. He wears exquisitely fashioned chain mail armor 
and carries a warhammer in his tightly clenched fists. 

The svirfneblin sent Viigo to the Vault to spy on the civil 
war. As enemies of the drow, the deep gnomes plan to do 
whatever they can to prolong the conflict. If convinced that 
the PCs aren't affiliated with any drow, Viigo's happy to spill 
any chant he has about where things are, the nature of the 
Vault itself, or even a bit about the war. He doesn't really 
know the dark of the whole matter, but he's tumbled to the 
basics, and he knows his way around the Vault pretty well. (If 
the PCs don't seem to show an interest in putting dark elves in 
the dead-book by the score, Viigo's not interested in helping 
them.) 

Presented below are brief descriptions of each of the 
drowic noble houses. Three - Tormtor, Everhate, and Aleval - 
have joined forces, supported by the githyanki and servants 
of Kiaransalee. The other four houses - Despana, Noquar, 
Kilsek, and Godeep - support Lolth and have the mind flayers 
on their side as well. 



? 78 ? 


T(c) Km + (c) R 


This house is the central focus of the rebellious forces. Its 
palace has become a military fortress, and the surrounding es 
tate has been ruined by warfare. Forty githyanki warriors (PI/ 
6 githyanki/F3 or F3,M3/CE) lend their swords in defending 
the estate. Their support adds such strength that Tormtor's en 
emies have given up trying to take the place. Currently, the 
forces here and in neighboring Everhate make preparations to 
launch an assault against the city of Erelhei-Cinlu (specifi 
cally at the Noble Gate), where their foes seem to have 
amassed their own troops. 

If the PCs learned that Erehe is the consort of Verdaeth, 
leader of the House of Tormtor, they might come to this estate 
to look for him. But neither Erehe nor his mistress are here. 
The two spend their time directing the war efforts at the Battle 
of the Great Gate, already in progress on the other side of 
Erelhei-Cinlu. 



D R(c) W N (c) B I LI + Y? 

I + HE (r)NLY (c)NE HERE 
DE + EC+ING A 

C0N + RADIC+I0N IN + E R ft! S? 


- SHAB HCANLING. 
a HALf-CLVCN 

A D V EN + URCR 


conflict. She instills fear in her warriors with her vrock staff, 
which lets her use each of the following functions once per 
day: cause fear (as per the spell); inflict 4d6 points of damage 
on a foe (requires a successful attack roll: no saving throw); 
polymorph self into a vrock for 5 rounds; and summon a 
vrock for 5 rounds. 


EVERHA+E 

This house has been dealt great blows, both in casualties and 
in property damage. The once-regal palace now lies in ruins, 
managed by 32 bugbear warrior-slaves and their six drow 
masters. The leader is Regliss (Pr/c5 drow/M7/CE), whose or 
ders are to keep the area free of enemy troop movements or 
resupply efforts. 

The remaining (surviving) nobles of Everhate, including 
mistress Gahnah (Pr/9 drow/P10[Loith],F5/CE), have taken 
refuge in the fortress of the House of Tormtor. But despite 
their allegiance to Tormtor, Gahnah and Everhate are still de 
voted to Lolth. Such is the nature of drow worship - a rever 
ence and respect of power, but no love or loyalty. Drow 
priestess kills drow priestess, both expecting to be rewarded 
by their mistress. Meanwhile, the chaotic and evil deity 
simply revels in the pain and misery of all - even her most 
faithful servants. 

DCS PA N A 

As the PCs proceed away from the Egg of Lolth, the first 
structure they probably see is the palace of the House of 
Despana. The fact that this once-great fortress still stands is 
due more to the priestesses of Lolth than to the might of the 
noble house. Nevertheless, its finery is marred and blackened 
from battle. 

The walls of this bastion hold many troops loyal to the 
Spider Queen and the Despana/Noquar/Kilsek/Godeep al 
liance, including the Miaanue, an elite force of 10 illithids 
trained for battle. More than likely, some of Despana's mili 
tary might will be magically transported into Erelhei-Cinlu 
very soon, while the rest try to make it to the Flying Bridge 
and the Noble Gate before the Tormtor forces attack. 

The former ruler of the house, Tiramar, died in the recent 
fighting, and the new leader, Nedylene (Pr/9 drow/P8[Lolth], 
F7/CE), drills her troops mercilessly, preparing them for future 


N6QUAK 

Until only recently, the palace at the heart of the estate of the 
House of Noquar was under siege by a combined force of 
githyanki, drow, and bugbear slaves. The fortress stood, how 
ever, and the attacking troops pulled back to the palace of 
Tormtor to prepare an assault against the Noble's Gate of 
Erelhei-Cinlu. 

The weary defenders of Noquar have no intention of 
joining in the battle at the city. Fact is, Fedarra (Pr/9 drow/P8 
[Lolth],F8/CE), ruler of the house, is contemplating withdraw 
ing from the fighting altogether - she sees the war as a con 
flict that might rage on until all the houses fall. Because of 
her racial pride, Fedarra hates to see the drow weaken them 
selves with infighting, which makes them potential victims of 
outside enemies. 

A LEVA L 

Earlier in the war, the House of Aleval played a crucial role in 
the attack against the House of Kilsek. But lately, apart from a 
few minor skirmishes on the estate grounds, Aleval's seen no 
fighting. The palace, albeit the smallest of all the drow nobles* 
cases, is intact and unmarred. See, Aleval has always had the 
smallest military force of any of the houses, and its alliance 
uses the palace primarily as a spot from which to watch the 
road leading toward the enemy estate of Godeep. 

It's not known who rules the House of Aleval. A noble 
named Jijekan (Pr 16 drow/F3,M6/CE) is the only cutter who's 
set eyes on the mysterious leader, and he acts as her liaison 
with the rest of the world. Jijekan himself wears a pair of 
wings of flying at all times and likes to spread the chant that 
he has fiendish blood in his veins. But any planewalker can 
see he's no tiefling. Sure, tiefling drow exist, but most of the 
time they're killed by their elf parents or taken away by their 
fiendish ancestor. 


? 79 ? 


KILSEK 

The Tormtor/Everhate/Aleval alliance took a giant leap 
toward victory the day that the palace of the House of Kilsek 
- once the greatest of the noble houses - fell. The attackers 
scattered the nobles, slew the troops, took slaves, and left 
forces behind to occupy the remnants of the palace (though a 
reprisal attack is unlikely.) 

The drow who managed to escape Kilsek with their lives 
now call kip in the city of Erelhei-Cinlu, leading the defenders 
there at the Great Gate. Fact is, Venrit (Pr/9 drow/F6.P9 
[Lolth]/CE), the former matron of the house, conceived of the 
plan to take the burg, and she puts to the sword any berk who 
doesn't swear allegiance to her and her allies. (For more de 
tails on the Kilsek rampage through the city, see "Erelhei- 
Cinlu," below.) 

G (c) D £ £ P 

Like Aleval, the estate of the House of Godeep hasn't seen 
much fighting recently. In the early days of the war, the forces 
of Godeep were instrumental in attacks on Everhate (their 
long-time enemies), but since then they've tried to take a 
more defensive stance. It's said that the reason the 
Tormtor/Everhate/Aleval alliance has had so much success is 
that the houses of Godeep and Noquar are so wary. Still, the 
nature of many of the dark elves - particularly the noble 
families - is to shun alliances and avoid devoting all to any 
one cause, so the insular behavior of Godeep and Noquar isn't 
really surprising. 

£ILS£RVS ( f A L L E N ) 

All that remains of the palace on this estate is a ruin. After 
their failed attempt to unseat the priestesses of Lolth from 
their position of domination in the Vault, the nobles of 
Eilservs - those that were scragged, that is - met torture and 
death, and the palace was razed. Vengeful ghosts and howling 
spirits haunt the estate now, so no drow willingly tread upon 
its grounds. 

? € k€ LHEI-CINLU ? 

Nearly 30,000 souls dwell in the corrupt, decrepit city of Erel 
hei-Cinlu. The noble houses, the merchants, and the priest 
esses of Lolth recruit the talented, intelligent, beautiful drow, 
and the dregs're left to rot here. The berks wallow in their de 
pravity and vice, ignoring all else - which means it's fairly 
easy for a few crafty cutters to slip into the walled burg un 
noticed. 

Not of all Erelhei-Cinlu's residents are drow - fact is, 
most aren't. Illithids, kuo-toa, bugbears, troglodytes, trolls, 
undead, humans from the surface world, and even a few 
fiends and other lower-planar creatures call kip in this city. If 
a body looks close, he might find a planewalker or two, and 


even a handful of tieflings. ('Course, the prime-material 
leatherheads don't know to call themselves "tieflings," and 
they're outcasts even among the drow - not because of their 
evil nature, but simply because of their appearance. Most dark 
elves have a very narrow definition of beauty.) 

Before the drowic civil war, Erelhei-Cinlu was a neutral 
burg. But in the last few weeks, the Kilsek/Despana/No- 
quar/Godeep alliance seized control of the town. The move 
isolated the Tormtor alliance's palaces of the Upper Vault 
from their main military force in the Lower Vault, which in 
cludes the Male Fighters' Society and most of the githyanki 
warriors (see "The Lower Vault," below, for details). 

The conquerors then closed the gates of the burg and put 
all who wouldn't swear fealty to them in the dead-book. 
Though many folks escaped through magic or some of the 
city's secret exits (including the singularly terrifying sewers), 
thousands were slain. The marauders - primarily Kilseks - 
sent any leaders or figures of importance among their foes to 
the leafless tree; their corpses still swing in the cold drafts of 
underground air currents. Chant is the Kilsek's new illithid al 
lies truly masterminded the slaughter, and that the fiends and 
undead in Erelhei-Cinlu quickly joined with the murdering 
drow to take part in the carnage - as the leaders of the 
scheme knew they would. 

The stone wall around the city is 30 feet tall and topped 
with battlements. Guards patrol the wall and bunk in towers 
spaced unevenly along the wall's length. Many gates lead into 
the city, but only two are of any size and importance. Toward 
the Upper Vault and the plateau of the noble estates, the 
Noble Gate stands before the Flying Bridge. On the other side 
of town, the Great Gate - which is much more defensible - 
overlooks the Lower Vault. 

The drow always meant for the Great Gate to be a de 
fense against invaders from outside of the Vault. Now, how 
ever, it's the site of a harrowing battle of drow versus drow. 
Liminis (Pr/cJ drow/F5,M7/CE), the basher in charge of hold 
ing the Gate, has as many ghouls, ghasts, and minor fiends 
under his command as drow, but he doesn't mind. In fact, he 
revels in the sudden power and influence given him by the 
war; his job used to be quite dull. Liminis has no great alle 
giance to the Kilsek alliance - truth is, before war broke out 
he was a Tormtor sympathizer - but he'll do whatever he 
must to maintain his position and newfound strength. 

PASSING THR0UGH T(c)WN 

If the PCs want to reach the battle at the Great Gate (or head 
into the Lower Vault), they need to figure out a way into, 
across, and out of Erelhei-Cinlu. A teleport spell could span 
the distance, if the heroes have access to such magic. Other 
wise, their best bet is simply to sneak or bluff their way 
through town. Flying isn't a good idea, for drow archers on 
both sides are used to airborne foes and fire upon unidentified 
flying creatures. 

The encounters and situations in the burg that could give 
the PCs trouble are as limitless as they are terrifying. Erelhei- 


? 80 ? 


Cinlu is the home of diseased beggars, thieves, cross-traders, 
cony-catchers, slavers, murderers, ghouls, vampires, trolls, 
fiends, and plenty of other monsters - not to mention well- 
organized platoons of troops (drow, bugbears, and troglo 
dytes) in the service of the Kilsek, ready to slay any berks dis 
loyal to the house or its allies. 

Luckily, the PCs have a few advantages. First of all, the 
city's chaotic, winding streets and haphazard buildings allow 
the cutters to sneak and hide well. Second, the burg suffers 
from poor organization. The citizens are degenerate, and the 
Kilsek high-ups distrust just about everyone. The Dungeon 
Master should keep in mind that despite their caste system 
and feudal (or militaristic) society, the drow are creatures of 
chaos as well as evil, and nowhere is this more clear than in 
Erelhei-Cinlu. 

The PCs might wish to spend some time in town - that 
is, if they're looking for dark spells, torture implements and 
techniques, or mind-destroying narcotics. In other words, 
wise folks make their way through the burg as quickly as pos 
sible. The twisted residents have little to offer but pain, mis 
ery, and a quick road to the dead-book. 

Fact is, the only thing of real value in Erelhei-Cinlu is the 
chant, and there are plenty of ways to get information. But 
the PCs can do worse than rattle their bone-boxes with Teri- 


gin (Pr 16 drow/F5/N), a heavily scarred drow who likes to stir 
up insurrection and rebellion against the evil ruling nobles 
whenever he can, all in the name of Nilonim - a former lover 
of whom he never speaks beyond invoking the name. 

Terigin's got more chant than the heroes would ever 
need, and it's even accurate. But it comes at a steep price. The 
basher demands that the PCs help him and a few of his com 
rades stop the Kilseks from wantonly murdering the folks of 
Erelhei-Cinlu. Specifically, he wants to slay Nieriv (Pr/9 
drow/F8/CE), the cruel captain of the Kilsek guard, who leads 
the culling raids on the populace. 

? TH € L0WCR VAUL+ ? 

The largest portion of the Vault of the Drow spreads out south 
and west from the walls of Erelhei-Cinlu. The floor and walls 
of the cavern sprout vast forests of thick fungi that're har 
vested by drow slaves. Nestled among the stretches of this 
sunless growth, the villas of the merchant clans stand as 
strongholds against the dark wilderness. See, despite the reign 
of the drow, the Vault's still fraught with danger - trolls, rop 
ers, shambling mounds, giant spiders, and other monsters 
prowl the cavern looking for food. 



m E RC H A N + VILLAS 


TR(c)GL(c) DY + E TUNNELS 


The Lower Vault contains 16 merchant villas, each ruled by 
one of the drowic merchant clans. The villas are smaller, less- 
defensible versions of the palaces in the Upper Vault. Though 
the merchant clans once allied themselves with various noble 
houses, they're now under the control of the Tormtor/Ever- 
hate/Aleval faction. All complied willingly. Even clans that 
were enemies of Tormtor now claim neutrality, at least, in 
order to keep business moving. Many merchants who're se 
cretly loyal to the Kilsek alliance operate as spies and infiltra 
tors, but the drow of the House of Tormtor know these stag- 
turners exist and busily try to root them out. 

THE BLACK T(r)W£R 

Facing the main road that leads into the Lower Vault, this 
four-level tower stands on a rocky precipice 
and serves as the first defense against inva 
sion from outside. Needless to say, it hasn't 
played much of a role in the current con 
flict, but the Tormtor/Everhate/ 

Aleval alliance con 
siders the Black 
Tower secure. Here's 
the dark of it, 
though: Recently, four 
mind flayers - using 
mental domi 
nation rather 
than physical 
force - infil 
trated and seized 
control of the tower. 

In quieter times, all road 
travelers who sought entrance to the 
Vault of the Drow were required to check in with the 
guards of the tower and don special cloaks marking their sta 
tus. Currently, however, the mind flayers command the 20 or 
so tower guards to question all visitors as to their loyalty in 
the civil war and scrag any berk who professes devotion to 
Tormtor. 

BUGBEAR CAVES 

This area, an extensive complex of caves on the side of the 
Vault wall, is home to almost 500 bugbears (including young). 
The creatures live in four distinct bands united under a single 
leader, Gannish, who serves the drow and uses his people to 
do their bidding. When war broke out, Gannish offered his 
services to the highest bidder, but he recently threw in com 
pletely with the Tormtor/Everhate/Aleval alliance, which he 
sees as the eventual winner. The bugbear leader knows noth 
ing of the chant about the Kilsek alliance's activities in and 
around Erelhei-Cinlu. 


In this part of the Lower Vault, nearly 60 cave openings - 
most of them hidden by growths of fungi - appear in the cliff 
walls. The dark mouths lead to numerous burrows and dens, 
many of which are empty. See, this honeycombed area was 
once the kip of a large tribe of troglodytes, but almost all of 
them have since been conscripted into the fighting. Only a 
few females remain, and they hide in the back caves, trying to 
care for the numerous young now without parents. 

WA RE H (c) U S E S 

Here, a row of 16 stone warehouses, each belonging to one of 
the merchant clans, backs up against the cavern wall. Above 
the door to each warehouse, a shield bearing the symbol of 

the appropriate clan identifies the 
owner. As mentioned earlier, the 
clans - some willingly, 
others reluctantly - have 
thrown in with the Torm 
tor alliance. 

The store 
houses are well 
guarded and well 
stocked with food and other 
goods (no weapons, though - 
they've all been taken by 
now). If the war continues 
much longer and the Kilsek 
alliance continues to hold 
only the city, they'll need to raid the ware 
houses to resupply their troops. Erehe 
himself has tumbled to this eventual 
ity, and he's commanded warriors from 
the House of Tormtor to withdraw from the fighting and 
further secure the area. 

THE f Em ALE FIGH + ERS' S(c)CIE + Y 

This is the only area of the Lower Vault that actively opposes 
the forces of the Tormtor alliance. Long ago, a military sister 
hood in the service of Lolth built a towered wall and gate 
house to seal off this diverticulum of the main cavern from 
the rest of the Vault. Within the protected area, the sisterhood 
spent millennia training drow females in the art of war. 

Each of the seven noble houses supports a sorority of 
warriors here. (Fighters who were loyal to the former House of 
Eilservs disbanded when that house fell, and they joined the 
remaining groups instead.) When the civil war began, the 
high-ups of the society instructed its 500 or so members to 
fight for those in the service of Lolth - the Kilsek alliance. 
However, each sorority is more or less loyal to its patron 
house. Thus, many drow connected with the Tormtor, Ever- 
hate, or Aleval houses turned against their superiors or aban 
doned their posts to join their allies. 


WHA + 'S 

m(c)mEN+ 



Y(c)UR PREFERENCE? 
(c)F PAIN f(c)r Y(c)U? 

10 G(c)LD. 

a m(c)rriEN+ (c)f pain f(c)r me? 

THA + 'S 20. . . . 

- A S+REE+-C0RNER HAWKER 
in ERELHEI-CINLU 



? 82 ? 


The githyanki took advantage of this dissension and 
launched an attack on the sisterhood. Although the well- 
trained warriors repelled the assault, they suffered enough 
losses to take them out of the rest of the war. Now the Torm- 
tor alliance ignores the area, and those sympathetic with the 
Kilseks use the society as a refuge in the Lower Vault. 

The compound comprises a large slave barracks, eight 
sorority buildings (the one formerly housing the Eilservs- 
sponsored fighters is now used for storage), an armory, a ru 
ined forge, and the main keep of General Telenna (Pr/9 
drow/F9/CE), commander of the sisterhood. In the past, the 
drow fashioned fine weapons in the forge, with help from 
creatures of the Elemental Plane of Fire. However, thanks to 
the githyanki attack, it's now all but useless. 

THE m A LE fIGH + ERS* S 0 CIE + Y 

When war came, General Relonor (Pr/cJ drow/F7/CE) showed 
his true colors as a servant oi the House of Tormtor and of 
fered his bashers to the nobles and their allies - another fac 
tor in the Tormtor alliance's early victories. The fraternity of 
approximately 500 warriors occupies a compound made of 16 
barracks and the wall that joins them. A gatehouse and two 
towers complete the fortress. 


? fINDING €R€H€ ? 

The Vault of the Drow is a big case, and there's plenty for a 
group of planewalkers to explore, learn, and fight. 'Course, 
their real goal is to find the drow called Erehe and learn what 
dark he's keeping - or at least protect him from the visages. 
Though the PCs don't know that Erehe has lost his memories, 
that fact'll soon become abundantly clear. However, that 
doesn't mean the heroes hit the blinds trying to find out the 
information. It'll just be hard. 

First things first, though. The bashers have to find the 
dark elf before they can interrogate him. Wigwagging with 
the locals is the easiest way to learn about Erehe (and the war 
in general), but finding a berk willing to rattle his bone-box 
to a bunch of nondrow strangers isn't easy. Still, the PCs 
might succeed with the right mixture of garnish, subtlety, and 
persuasion. 

Canny bloods quickly tumble to the following facts: 
Erehe is the consort of Verdaeth, matron of the House of 
Tormtor, the estate at the center of the current conflict. The 
two are practically inseparable, and they're likely to be found 
either in their palace or at the primary battle site - the Great 
Gate of Erelhei-Cinlu. 

THE PALACE (c)F 
+ HE HOUSE (c)F T(c)R.m + (c)R 

The PCs can get into the palace in any number of ways, 
though a direct, open assault is probably the most addle- 
coved method. Sneaking in's a possibility for top-shelf infil 


trators. But the Dungeon Master should remember that the 
Vault of the Drow is in a state of war. Defenders inside the 
palaces and fortresses are extra peery and more likely to kill 
an intruder rather than question him. 

Still, there's infiltration and then there's infiltration. 
Spells, disguises, and outright bribery work here as well as 
they do anywhere on the planes, and such tactics, if used well, 
might get a body or two into the palace for a look around. The 
cutters will tumble pretty quickly to Erehe's absence, but 
they might also learn his current location - the field 
of battle before the Great Gate. 



THE BA + + LE (c)E + H E GR.EA + GA + E 

If the PCs manage to make their way through Erelhei-Cinlu 
and reach the Great Gate at the south side ot the city, they 
witness a fierce battle. 

The sound of metal clashing upon metal and the cries of 
combat are broken by exploding fireballs or the rumbling oj 
some other sorcer\\ From within the surrounding towers. dark 
elren archers fire volley after volley of crossbow bolts down at 
the advancing enemy. Still more warriors - most oj them male 
- repel attackers that try to scale the wall or magically fly or 
levitate over it. Ghouls and other undead accompany the de - 
fenders, greedily tearing at living flesh A small pack of 
chasme living overhead drop a handful oj bar-lguru into the 
enemy hordes, and the apish fiends seem to have little regard 
for life - even their own. 

The attackers are mostly drow warriors of both sexes or 
ganized into segregated units. Bugbears and troglodytes form 
powerful supporting phalanxes to either side. Ladders and 
grappling ropes earn • the assailants into battle at the top oj 
the wall, where a lone, unarmed drow holds off a score of 
warriors until she's brought down in a flurry of strokes - and 
turns to mist. Attackers flying on the backs of hieracosphinxes 
nr by means of magic try to gain the other side through the 
hail of missile fire. 

The fight looks as though it's raged for a long rime - and 
seems likely to continue unabated for a good deal longer. 

If the PCs figure that Erehe's with the attackers, they 
might try to leave the city and head into the invaders' camp. 
But that presents an interesting challenge - all of the gates in 
the wall are locked and guarded. The chaos of the raging 
battle might work to the heroes' advantage, allowing them to 
proceed without drawing too much attention. Still, even if 
they scale or otherwise get past the wall, the difficulties begin 
anew - the attacking army looks upon anyone coming from 
Erelhei-Cinlu as an enemy. 


? 83 ? 


LEARN I N G AB6U + 

? + HE WAND ? 

Whatever means the cutters use to infiltrate the ranks of the 
Tormtor alliance - disguise, garnish, magic, or just plain 
sneakiness - they Find the high-ups near the rear of the at 
tack, on a rise behind the advancing forces. Verdaeth, Erehe, 
and three other Tormtor nobles named Bederiss (Pr/9 drow/ 
F5,P8[Kiaransalee]/CE), Fecundil (Pr/9 drow/F4,P7[Kiaransa- 
lee]/CE), and Magin (Pr/rf drow/F4.M6/CE) watch the battle 
from astride their nightmare mounts. Six trained displacer 
beasts and six female drow warriors guard them. 

Verdaeth. unquestionably the leader, sits the tallest in her 
fiendish mount's saddle, a long black and purple robe cover 
ing her fine chain mail. Erehe seems to have a penchant for 
the macabre, for his clothing is covered in skulls, bones, and 
symbols of death. He also wears strange lenses over his eyes 
that make them appear to be red. The other three nobles, like 
their ruler and her consort, radiate extreme beauty in a cold, 
dark way. Their regal garments are ornately embellished and 
in perfect condition. All five of the drow come across as ex 
traordinarily arrogant and imperious, though Verdaeth will 
drop pretense in order to get something she wants. 

To find out what the drow know about the Wand of 
Orcus, the PCs might try to talk to them, fight them, restore 


Erehe's lost memories, or offer to help the Tormtor's war effort 
in exchange for information. Each option is discussed below. 

TALKING 

Canny PCs should realize that this probably isn't a good time 
to charge in with swords drawn. Truth is, approaching the 
Tormtor nobles at all probably means a quick trip to the dead- 
book - unless a cutter uses his brain-box and says something 
to make the drow (at least Erehe or Verdaeth) want to hear 
them out. "Kestod sent us," "We're here about Erehe's memo 
ries," or something similar is a good start. 

If Erehe is intrigued by what the PCs have to say, he casts 
wall of force to create a dome around Verdaeth, himself and 
the heroes - after the bashers first place their weapons on the 
ground outside the radius of the dome. While the two drow 
want some privacy to protect themselves from curious ears or 
stray attacks from the nearby battle, they worry that the re 
quest for an audience is just a trick by their Kilsek foes. 

What follows is probably a confusing discussion. The 
drow don't know what the PCs know, but they suspect the 
bashers have chant they want. Likewise, the PCs don't know 
what the drow know, but they suspect the nobles have chant 
they want. Both sides are peery of the other, and neither 
wants to show weakness or ignorance. 











Smooth talking on the PCs' pan gains them a few inter 
esting tidbits - if they ask the right questions and make the 
right statements. See. if Verdaeth and Erehe believe the plane- 
walkers know more than they do. they try to blulf using the 
chant they do have and. in so doing, let slip information that 
proves valuable to the PCs. For instance, the cutters might 
learn that Erehe lost his memories to the River Styx after 
serving in the realm of Kiaransalce. They might also pick up 
chant about the war in the Vault or something even more 
valuable. 

If the PCs bring up Kestod, Verdaeth makes the necessary 
links and tells them the dark of what happened to the Wand 
of Orcus - i/that means the heroes then can offer her new in 
sight into her consort's lost memories. Knowledge that the 
visages're hunting for Erehe is plenty valuable to the two 
drow. Verdaeth has no qualms about turning stag on her pa 
tron goddess; her obsessive love for Erehe is far stronger than 
her devotion to Kiaransalee. She's even willing to abandon 
the war and give the whole Vault the laugh if it means hang 
ing on to the object of her desires. 

Unfortunately, the feeling ain't mutual. Erehe's attach 
ment to Verdaeth isn't nearly so strong. He has no special de 
votion to Kiaransalee, either, and he always bows to Ver- 
daeth's judgment in matters regarding the deity. But Erehe is 
Fiercely loyal to the House of Tormtor, at least in that he en 
joys his position of power. If his mistress chose to flee the 
house and the Vault, he wouldn't follow - fact is, he'd enjoy 
ruling in her stead. However, if convinced he was as good as 
lost, that'd be a different matter entirely. Erehe believes in 
self-preservation before all else. 

f IGH + I NG 

If the PCs possess great power but little tact, they might try to 
force Verdaeth to give them the information they need. Even 
if they're successful, such an action earns them a powerful 
enemy, one that's sure to show up again looking for revenge. 
See, Verdaeth's attitude is simple - the best way to make sure 
that her chant is valuable is to put anyone else who learns it 
in the dead-book. 

'Course, some PCs might just try to kill Erehe so the vis 
ages can't get at him. That's faulty logic - Tenebrous is a god. 
after all, so he'll tumble to the dark of his wand sooner or 
later. Besides, slaying the drow wizard might be beyond the 
heroes' power, especially with Verdaeth and the other dark 
elves around. And if the PCs attack first, without trying to 
talk to Erehe or Verdaeth, things go from bad to worse. Even 
if the berks eventually change their tactics, attempts on 
Erehe's life won't make the drow too eager to share their 
knowledge later. 

The Dungeon Master should remember that Verdaeth is 
the only living mortal who knows that Kestod and Erehe hid 
the Wand oT Orcus in the fourth layer of Pandemonium. If she 
dies, the PCs'll have a much harder time learning the wand's 
location. 


RES + 0RING L(c)S + mem(c)RI€S 

Top-shelf thinkers might fetch a blossom of desert's night 
from Set's realm and use it to restore Erehe's memories. The 
heroes learned of the bloom in Chapter III: perhaps they even 
had the foresight to grab samples of the rare flower when they 
first visited Ankhwugaht. In any case, they can give the 
desert's night to Verdaeth in exchange for information. She's 
delighted at finally being able to fill in her consort's past, and 
her love for Erehe overpowers her desire to leave the truth 
about the Wand of Orcus buried forever in his brain-box. The 
PCs also can restore Erehe's memories themselves, in order to 
get the full chant straight from the draw's mouth. 

All the heroes really need is the general location of the 
wand, but if Erehe regains his memories, they might take him 
along as a guide (or he may accompany them willingly). He 
warns them, though, that they must find a way to reach the 
cavern that holds the wand. Kiaransalee just whisked him into 
a secluded area of Agathion and back again; there are no tun 
nels leading to the spot. Erehe suggests stopping at the Mad 
house, the Bleak Cabal's citadel on the first layer of Pandemo 
nium. and from there learning how to get to Agathion (see 
Chapter VIII for details). 

Thing is, both Verdaeth and Erehe are drow, and drow 
never help anyone unless there's something in it for them. In 
fact, the Tormtor leader and her consort are particularly dia 
bolical and might turn stag on the PCs at any turn. Canny 
cutters'll keep a close eye on them. More than likely, though, 
the two drow really do plan to help the heroes find the Wand 
of Orcus - but only so they can scrag it for themselves. They 
can even justify that their actions don't oppose Kiaransalee's 
wishes; by taking the wand, they feel they're helping to keep 
it out of Tenebrous's hands. 

HELPING + HE WAR Eff(c)R+ 

It may be that to learn the needed chant, the PCs must strike a 
deal with Verdaeth. If so, she agrees to give them the location 
of the wand - but only if they first bring her the head ofVen- 
rit. the ruler of the House of Kilsek. If that's obviously beyond 
their ability, or if they fail and return, Verdaeth gives them a 
new task: Kill Liminis, the commander of the Great Gate, and 
open the gate from the inside. 

Verdaeth has no reason to ask the PCs to perform impos 
sible tasks - she wants these things done. Still, she knows the 
chant about the wand is important, and she wants something 
worthwhile in return. 

VAFT1PIRE A + + ACK 

If the DM allowed Kestod to escape from Tcian Sumere rather 
than impale himself (see Chapter V for details), he might try 
to kill Erehe and Verdaeth to prevent them from betraying Ki 
aransalee. For maximum drama, the assault should occur 
while the PCs patiently try to win the draw's trust. This puts 
the berks in the odd position of having to defend Erehe 


? 85 ? 



The most obvious way out is the way the PCs came in - 
through the special conduit in the Fane of Lolth. But except 
for the caravans that bring weapons, the priestesses of the 
Fane don't allow anyone access to the passage to Lolth's 
Abyssal realm. Just reaching the conduit will take a fair 
amount of subterfuge and probably some swordplay; after all, 
the temple and the surrounding area's littered with drow war 
riors. And even if the heroes make it through the conduit, 
they'll find themselves in the realm of the Queen of Spiders, 
uninvited, with drow blood on their blades. To make matters 
worse, no matter where they go in the Demonweb, the poor 
sods'll find enemies all around them - drow ser 
vants, yochlol and other tanar'ri, and spiders of 
large, huge, and giant size. 

Hopefully, the PCs will realize that 
they can't fight their way out of 
Lolth's realm, and they'll rely on wits 
and bribery instead. They'd better be 
ready, because the berks must contend 
with a fiend as soon as they step out of 
the spiderweb conduit - a yochlol 
guards every exit and entrance to the 
Demonweb Pits. All yochlol are, more 
or less, proxies of Lolth. They have 
the authority to let outsiders into the 
realm, but the PCs'd better do some 
fancy wigwagging to make their 
case. A great garnish - such as a 
magical item, a special treasure, 
or a bit of compelling chant - 
wouldn't hurt either. 

If the yochlol allows the he 
roes to pass through the 
Demonweb, it assigns 
them an escort: another 
yochlol. That's a good 
thing, for without the 
guidance of a native, 
the PCs'll find the web 
a huge mass of viscous 
strands that make it ex 
tremely difficult to walk. 
The escort leads the 
bashers to the crevice 
that winds up to the Plain 
of Infinite Portals. However, 
if they ask, the fiend shows 
them a one-way portal that 
goes directly into the Hive 
Ward of Sigil. The portal ain't 
well known and it only exists now 
and again, with no discemable pat 
tern. But the PCs are in luck, because it's 
working today. 

Addle-coved planewalkers might choose to 
fight the conduit guardian or their escort. If the 


against an attack that they themselves made possible (by free 
ing Kestod). 'Course, it also means that Erehe will probably 
suspect treachery, figuring that Kestod and the characters are 
somehow conspiring to peel him. 


? LEAVING +HC VAUL+ ? 

The PCs' stay in the Vault of the Drow might turn out to be a 
lengthy one, especially if the bashers find themselves caught 
up in the local intrigues and battles. At some point, though, 
they'll be ready to leave. Oerth has a number of options 
for travel to the planes, but none of them are easy. 

For example: 


? The ruins of the forge in the com 
pound of the Female Fighters' Society 
has a still-functioning portal to the 
Elemental Plane of Fire. 


? A race of neutral gnomes 
called the svirfneblin live 
near the Vault of the Drow, 
and they know of a vortex to 
the Elemental Plane of Earth (a * 
plane with which they're quite 
familiar). 


? A portal to the Elemental Plane 
of Water (specifically the realm 
of the power Blibdoolpoolp) lies 
in a cavern many miles distant, in 
a shrine erected to the deity by 
her servants, the kuo-toa. 


? Many mages and priests on 
this world, including those 
among the drow, can cast spells 
such as plane shift , teleport without 
error , and the like. But, as always, there's 
sure to be a price. 


? The surface of Oerth has 
numerous portals, but 
reaching the sunlit skies 
requires a journey of many 
weeks. What's more, most 
of the portals sit in loca 
tions that are secluded, 
ruined, lost, or well 
guarded. That's be 
cause the denizens of 
Oerth fear planars, think 
ing them all to be maraud; 
ing fiends. 


? 86 ? 








yochlol can't defeat the berks themselves, they try to warn the 
other inhabitants of the realm as quickly and efficiently as 
possible. This might mean retreating to alert others, which'll 
probably make the PCs think they chased the fiends off and 
are safe. But spiders lurk everywhere on the web, and the 
yochlol use them to convey messages. Word spreads quickly 
of the intruders, and soon the poor bashers could face defend 
ers of the realm at every sticky step. 

If the PCs make it to the Plain of Infinite Portals, they 
probably head back to the gate-town of Plague-Mort and 
eventually try to reach Sigil (or some other safer ground). On 
the other hand, truly courageous and stalwart characters 
might poke around on the Plain, looking for a gate that leads 
directly to Pandemonium - after all, the sooner they find the 
Wand of Orcus, the better. 

The layer does indeed contain a portal to 
the Howling Plane; it's fairly commonly 
used and easily found, especially if 
the heroes loosen a few 
fiendish tongues with some 
garnish. But the por 
tal's not nearby. The 
cutters must march 
quite a distance across 
the layer to reach it, brav 
ing whatever Abyssal ter 
rors the Dungeon Master 
chooses to throw at 
them. 

Truth 
is, even if 
the berks just 

return to Plague-Mort, they're likely 
to run into trouble along the way. The 
DM's free to toss numerous obstacles in the 
party's path, or to give the poor sods a break - especially if 
they've already been battered and bloodied by this point. In 
any case, both the Plain of Infinite Portals and the town of 
Plague-Mort hold cutthroats, cony-catchers, fiends of every 
type, and all manner of chaotic evil monsters. 

Note: If the heroes try to fight their way out of the 
Demonweb Pits and somehow escape alive, the DM should 
make it clear that they survived only because Lolth didn't care 
or had more pressing concerns - not the least of which is the 
war tearing apart the Vault of the Drow. The PCs should real 
ize that, under normal circumstances, there's no way that 
berks like them can mess with a deity and then give her the 
laugh. 


THE BES + PAR + 

ABeu+ VISI + ING +HE VAUL + 
IS LEAVING. 

- f (c) N K I N H(c)DDYP€AK. 
AN fiLf 



Some creatures, possibly undead fiends, seek a rare 
flower - desert's night , which grows only in Set's 
realm - that's said to restore memories drained by the 
River Styx. The PCs might also realize that the crea 
tures serve an ancient, powerful, and secretive master. 

The creatures also seek Kestod and Erehe, two drow 
who hid the Wand of Orcus in the fourth layer of Pan 
demonium and then were drowned in the Styx. 

Someone or something is killing proxies and gods - 
some of whom, at least, have been involved in the 
above circumstances. 

Most bashers will be able to piece together this in 
formation to get the big picture: Someone, perhaps 
(probably?) the being once known as Orcus, is 
searching for the Wand of Orcus. This can t possi 
bly be good. If the PCs are true heroes, they'll re 
alize what they must do: Journey to Agathion and 
find the wand before anyone else does. 

If the cutters have already visited Pe- 
lion and read the prophecy found in the 
Last Spire (see Chapter VII for details), they 
should be even more certain that Orcus is 
the villain. And if they haven't gone to 
that dusty Arborean layer, clues they 
found back in Tcian Sumere 
might push them there now. 

However, if the berks 
need more motivation, the DM 
can use a stronger (albeit more heavy- 
handed) method: A proxy of a power they wor 
ship or respect pays them a visit. The proxy explains 
that his deity senses a great evil arising and believes that the 
PCs have some knowledge of it. He asks the heroes if they in 
deed know anything about such an impending doom. If they 
say "yes," the proxy immediately stops them from speaking 
any further. 

u Mv great and powerful master requests that you not tell 
me what if is. Apparently, there's a danger in knowing what 
vou know - no one else should be privy to it. My master 
wishes you to take rare of the problem in the most obvious 
and efficient way. He says that a short-term solution is 
enough to produce a long-term effect. Quick action, quick 
thinking, and canny choices can win where brute force is fu 
tile. There's nothing more my master or / can say - only you 
know what you know." 


? THE NEX+ S + EP ? 

Once safely away from the Vault of the Drow and the Abyss, 
the PCs can decide what to do next. By this point in the ad 
venture, they should have tumbled to the following chant: 


If necessary, the proxy promises the cutters jink or mag 
ical rewards. But he can't help directly in any way, and the 
PCs can't expect aid from any quarter. Once the proxy brings 
his message, the heroes should realize that their knowledge of 
Orcus's return is dangerous chant and can't be shared with 
anyone - not even those they think they can trust. 


? 87 ? 



CHArm VII: 
(tm)t RUINS 
w P6U*N 


"Ah. my dean but what would we do then?" Evreth 
smiled that tight-lipped smirk that Tchunim always 
hated. "All the gods are dead. Dead , or scat 
tered to the four winds of the mulfircrse. relion has no more gods," 

"But the secret - " Tchunim began. 

Oh. secrets ..." Evreth interrupted, still smirking. "Secrets ire 
hare plenty of 

Evreth could be very* annoying. 


? S + EE KING + HE RIDE ? 



This chapter comes into play if the heroes follow up on clues they 
found earlier suggesting that they travel to Pelion, the third layer of 
Arborea. 'Course, it's possible that the PCs missed those 
leads entirely or aren't sufficiently motivated to make 
the trip. But if the Dungeon 
Master's really itching to use 
this chapter, he can throw 
more obvious clues in their 
path, perhaps when the party's con 
ducting research or picking up the 
chant in Sigil. For example, a well-lanned cutler 
could reveal that he's heard the mysterious blood putting powers in the dead- 
book is somehow tied to the ruins of Pelion. That's a bit like knocking the PCs 
over the head with the information, but once in a while that's what it takes. 

If the DM can't find a suitable method of getting the PCs to Pelion, all 
is not lost. When the heroes meet the Guardian of the Dead Gods (in Chapter IX), 
he provides further incentive for them to visit the dusty layer. But the berks can 
finish the adventure even if they never go to Pelion - it'll just be harder (and 
perhaps more confusing). 


PELIffiN'S (c)NE (c)f +H(c)se 
W0NDERFUL PLACES 
wi + h N (c) EXPLANA+I(c)N. 

the PLACES we HAVEN' + 
FIGURED (c)U+ ARf ALWAYS 
+ he m(c)S+ IN + ERES + ING. 

- DESIRA, 

A PLANAR SAGE 


? THE GAtTlE GE + S WEIRD ? 

During this chapter, the heroes will find a magical device known as the Orb of 
Kadu-Ra that has recorded events from Pelion's distant past. If the PCs activate 
the Orb, they vicariously experience those events by playing out the scenes as 
other characters who lived during that time. 

That means the players need to roll up those other characters (hereafter 
referred to as the "temporary'' PCs). So as not to slow down the game, the DM 
should have them do it sometime before the session in which this chapter will 
be played. If the players ask why they need new characters, the DM should 
just say, "You'll see." The fact that they get to play out ancient events 
should come as a fun surprise. (On the other hand, the DM should 
probably reassure the players that their beloved original heroes didn't 
die when they weren't looking.) 

The temporary PCs should be standard Planescape characters of 8th to 10th 
level. The DM should not tell the players that the temporary PCs exist in the dim 
recesses of the past. But it's fine to give them the following clue: If the charac 
ters will be planars, they can belong only to the Dustmen, the Fated, the Frater 
nity of Order, the Free League, or the Revolutionary League. No other factions 
are allowed. That's because during the time of the temporary PCs, none of the 
other current factions existed yet. (Naturally, Sigil did have other factions at 
that time - including the Expansionists, the Sodkillers, and the Incanterium - 
but since those groups're long gone, it's easiest to leave them out. The DM's free 


? 88 ? 



to allow them if he wants to 
outline their parameters for the players.) 

The temporary PCs can be of any race, and the 
players can outfit them with whatever mundane equip 
ment they want. If the DM likes, he can give each cutter a 
few magical trinkets as well, but it's not required. The 
temporary PCs don't have to have any magical items at all. 

Players don't need to spend too much time developing the backgrounds of 
the temporary characters; they won't be used for an extended period. But the more 
different they are from the original PCs, the better - the change will feel more dramatic. 

Players should try different kinds of characters, too. Maybe the player with the great fighter 
should roll up a doddering wizard, and the one who always plays a thief should be encouraged 
to try a cleric. But no matter what, the DM shouldn't let anything in the temporary PCs' backgrounds tie 
directly to the present. 

? THC I0URNCY +(c) P€U(c)N ? 

For once, getting there's the easy part. Sigil has a portal that leads directly to Elshava, a floating city in 
wa 
tery Ossa (the second layer of Arborea). From there, it's fairly easy for the heroes to find a basher who'll 
guide them along the path to Pelion. 

To reach Elshava, the PCs need to find a pair of sagging towers in the Clerk's Ward that leaned so heav 
ily toward each other that they now touch at their apexes. The one-way portal - which was discovered 
only 
recently - is the space between the towers, and the key is any sea shell. Once the heroes step through, 
they 











































'C0URSE Y(r)U D0N' + 
SEE ANY LY CAN + H R(c) PE S 
AR0UND HERE. 

rm G(c)0D 

A+ WHA+ I Dffi. 

- mANHAY+H 


the 
shallow 
sea of 
Ossa, 
and every 
thing about it has 
a watery feel. The 
buildings look 
like shells, oetopi, 
or fish, and most of them 
seem to be made from mother-of-pearl or coral. Naturally, the 
newly found portal from Sigil has brought many goods to 
Elshava that were formerly unavailable (or nearly so). 

The floating city's home to sea elves, selkies, mermen, and 
the like, but the inhabitants simply call themselves Sea Folk, 
making no distinctions among the various races. The PCs can 
easily find and hire a few sailors to take them to Pelion in one 
of the many local coracles (also called roundboats). These craft, 
like the city itself, resemble giant nautilus shells. Bloods with 
any knowledge of sailing might think they'd be difficult to ma 
neuver, but the Sea Folk have no trouble. 


The ichthyoid residents of this thalassic city don't pay 
you much heed as they carry on their business in the shell- 
pared streets between the coral buildings. The sailors you're 
hired are silent and aloof but they handle themselves skill 
fully as they prepare their strange round boat for the trip . 
Peering down into the green waters that surround the city. you 
note that Elshava foots in shallow shoals - the water's prob 
ably only 3 feet deep. But the air is cold and full of mist, and 
you suspect that the sea is much colder. 

The trip to Pelion sets each PC back about 50 gp, and the 
Sea Folk don't explain their actions or give a guided tour - 
they just herd the cutters onto their small ship and go. The 
journey is cold, even though there's only a slight breeze, and 
visibility's poor thanks to a thick green mist. Still, any basher 
on the ship can see that the water remains very shallow. 

The path to the next layer of Arborea winds through the 
endless shoals of Ossa, but it doesn't take very long. At some 
point after three hours have elapsed, everyone on board the 
roundboat - including the Sea Folk - falls into a deep, rest 
ful sleep. There's no saving throw against this effect. It's just 
how the path works. 

When the travelers wake up a short while later, they find 
that the boat has seemingly run aground - in fact, there's no 
water anywhere in sight. They've reached Pelion. 

All around you. a flat plane of fine, white dust stretches 
to the horizon. The air is still cold , but now it's extremely dry\ 
Some of the dust blows gently through the sky, and at first you 
mistake it for snow. But it doesn't take you long to realize the 
truth. The white particles may be as cold as ice, but they're 
also dry and choking. Fortunately, the air is still . so not much 
of the stu ff gets lifted off the ground . 

The Sea f olk sailors don 't seem concerned that you 're run 


aground, though the dust and dryness apparently annoy them. 
Fact is, it looks like they're preparing the roundboat for another 
trip. But there's certainly no water anywhere in sight. 

The Sea Folk know that they're at the edge of a planar 
path and can indeed sail back to Ossa, despite the fact that 
their boat appears to be stuck forever in a dry desert. Before 
they leave, the sailors tell the PCs that they won't be back to 
pick them up - the berks're on their own. If the heroes ask, 
the Sea Folk remark that the necropolis known as Bal-tiref - 
which lies in the realm of Nephythys - contains a few portals 
out of Pelion. 


THC DCSCR+ 

? (c)f AmUN- + HYS ? 

If the PCs found the crude map of Pelion (on page 101) that 
was hidden in Tenebrous's throne back in Tcian Sumere, they 
can ascertain pretty quickly how to get about the layer. If they 
don't have the map, there'll probably be a little wandering in 
volved. Fortunately, no matter what the cutters do, they end 
up running into a basher named Manhayth. It's just the na 
ture of Pelion (and the nature of Manhayth). 

Manhayth is an aasimar who calls himself a beast- 
hunter. What isn't immediately obvious is that he hunts were- 
beasts. See, Pelion, despite its location on a plane of good, has 
a problem with werebeasts of all kinds - including evil, 
bloodthirsty raiders that travel in vicious packs. Indeed, when 
Manhayth encounters the party, he's wandering through the 
desert, looking for lycanthrope prey. And he's always check 
ing the ground for tracks, despite the fact that the wind con 
stantly stirs the white dust all about. 

The PCs don't spot Manhayth until he's about 30 yards 
away - that's the farthest the cutters can see in the blowing 
dust. The aasimar approaches them swiftly and surely, though 
he says nothing. He wears dark leather clothing and is 
weighed down with all sorts of gear, including a variety of 
weapons. When he gets very close, his spear in hand but not 
poised to strike, he begins to sniff, as though looking for a 
particular odor. And that's exactly what he's doing - Man 
hayth believes he can tell a werebeast by its smell, even when 
it's in human form. 

Once he's sure the PCs are what they seem (woe to them 
if any party members are lycanthropes), the aasimar intro 
duces himself and converses with them in a cordial but gruff 
manner. He can help the heroes considerably, giving them the 
chant on Pelion, directions to where they want to go, and 
warnings about various local hazards. 

Manhayth also tells the bashers that Pelion was once oc 
cupied by a pantheon of mysterious gods who've long since 
departed or died, leaving behind only ruins. (If any PCs re 
mark that the powers might've been the'Egyptian gods, the 
aasimar chuckles and says, "Good one, berk.'') Within the 
ruins lie secrets, but few have the patience or foreknowledge 
to search for them. 


? 90 ? 



Interior 


Secret 

Panel 


Braes 

Plug 


Chamber of Secrets 


Shaft 




Giant 

Wraithworm 


>]? r ??" ">?>>#¦ 


Water 


Guardian of Secrets 


? 914 - 




































































If the PCs came to Pelion for something in particular, 
Manhayth tells them they're best off going to Amun-thys, the 
realm of the goddess Nephythys. "Old Nephythys" (as he calls 
her) doesn't twig well to visitors, but a careful body can get 
the chant on a lot of topics, especially from a cutter named 
Tyun Amerinvai. If the heroes want to go, the aasimar gives 
them thorough directions to the 
realm, adding, "You'll know 
you're there when you start 
seeing the crypts." The trip 
takes about five full days, and 
Manhayth travels with the 
party if invited. 

Non : The greatest 
challenge of the journey to 
Amun-thys is probably 
finding enough food and 
water. However, if the DM de 
sires, an encounter with a 
wraithworm (described in the 
Planescape(r) Monstrous 
Compendium Appendix //) or a 
small group .of lycanthrope 
bandits would be more than 
appropriate in this dangerous 
desert of dust. 

WI + HIN +HC 
REALIT1 

It's hard to find a desertlike 
realm when it sits in the middle 
of a desert. But Manhayth was right 
about the crypts. As the PCs approach 

Amun-thys, the sand dunes occasionally part to reveal long- 
buried tombs. Many are ornate and intricate, but the aasimar 
(if he's present) warns the party not to disturb them. Nothing 
pikes Nephythys off like some berk looting a crypt. 

See, Nephythys is the Egyptian goddess of wealth and 
the guardian of the dead. Truth is, she got a good deal more 
powerful when Anubis - the former guardian of the dead - 
walked off and disappeared. Her realm is filled with necropoli 
and mausoleums, and Nephythys herself dwells in a dun-col 
ored palace, though the PCs have no reason to go there. 

Canny bashers notice a bit of natural life in Amun-thys: 
white lotuses, tumbling lilies, lizards, rats, and snakes. The 
sky boasts an occasional vulture or two, and the ground at 
times gives forth an oasis of water. Sure, it's still dry and un 
welcoming, but at least it's better than the rest of Pelion. 

Bal-tiref is a vast, silent necropolis, one of the many in 
Amun-thys. Apart from the rats, scavengers, and undead 
(particularly ghouls and ghasts), the only inhabitants are a 
few petitioners who work as embalmers and corpse-preparers. 
These folks live simply amid the treasures of ancient kings 
displayed in fabulous tombs. They wear long, purple robes 
with gold embroidery that'd shame most emperors, yet they 


live in small shacks outside of Bal-tiref and eat nothing but 
gruel. 

If the PCs take Manhayth's advice and search for Tyun 
Amerinvai (Pe/9 human/O-level/Dustmen/CG), they find her 
working inside the necropolis. She's gaunt, and her large, 
staring eyes peer out from the elegant purple and silver hood 

of her long robe. In exchange 
for a little garnish, 
Tyun lanns the he 
roes to the dark of 
a few matters: 

Several 
years ago, a 
mighty being 
combed the sands 
of Pelion for 
lost secrets 
that'd grant 
him even 
greater 
power. Tyun 
believes that the 
blood was said to be 
undead. He ended up 
at the site of an ancient 
tower that's now long gone. 
However, recently another villain 
unearthed an old treasure that had 
some ties to the tower. The treasure 
is called the Orb of Kadu-Ra, and it 
was stolen from a crypt by a thief 
named Heydril. The berk's a well-known 
tomb-robber, and the priests of Nephythys have 
placed a hefty price on his head. Unfortunately, no one 
knows where Heydril - or the Orb of Kadu-Ra - is now. 

If the PCs want to find the thief, they really need to do 
some digging. They can slip jink to the right folks to get a de 
scription of Heydril (dark hair, deep blue eyes, and sunburned, 
peeling skin), the locations of places he's been, and the dark 
of sites he might hit next. Staking out wealthy crypts and 
waiting for the thief to come by might work as well. 'Course, 
the latter activity is sure to provoke a confrontation with the 
ghasts common to Bal-tiref, which attack the heroes outright. 
(There should be at least three undead for each character.) 

In any event, if the PCs manage to find Heydril some 
where in the necropolis, their best bet is to trace him back to 
his case, so they can get at his stashed treasure. He's certainly 
not going to carry the Orb of Kadu-Ra around with him. 

THC THItf'S H (c)ARD 

Heydril calls kip in the skeleton of a gigantic, unknown beast 
that died in the desert of Pelion centuries ago. Treated hides 
stretched over the rib cage provide a little shelter from the 
wind, not to mention a fine place to hide stolen loot. Born 
and raised on the Outlands, Heydril heard the call of treasure 



? 92 ? 



when he learned about all the wealthy crypts in Pelion. His 
excellent skills have enabled him to elude the vengeful 
watchers of the tombs so far, but he's pushing his luck - if he 
doesn't quit soon, he'll probably be swinging from the leafless 
tree within six months. 

The thiefs surrounded his home with small snares hidden 
in the dust: spring-loaded jaw traps made from the bones of 
various monsters. Unless a top-shelf PC rogue leads the way 
and looks for traps, each character approaching the kip has a 
40°/o chance of stepping into a trap and suffering 2d4 points 
of damage - as well as alerting Heydril. 

? When the PCs approach the skeleton, show the players 

Illo J (on page 173). 

The cutter fights to defend his case as best as he's able. 
He's no idiot, though, and won't battle to the death. If faced 
with certain doom, Heydril offers his assailants anything he 
can to get them to spare his life. For those PCs who'd like to 
take the berk for all he's worth, Heydril has amassed a trea 
sure hoard consisting of: 11,349 cp; 2,668 sp; 1,560 gp; and 
53 objects of art (statuary, vases, urns, crowns, scepters, bra 
ziers, combs, jewelry, and so on) worth 5dl00 gp each. 

As Tyun Amerinvai said, the thief also possesses the 
stolen Orb of Kadu-Ra, a beautiful golden sphere. But to Hey 
dril, that's all it is. He has no idea of its true origin or nature, 
nor of how it ended up in the tomb of the sod he snatched it 
from. 

THC (c)RB (c)f KADU-RA 

The orb is a magical device able to completely record events 
so they can be relived later. When recording, the orb creates a 
magical chronicle of all sights, sounds, smells, feelings, 
thoughts, and emotions experienced by an individual or 
group. The orb, and presumably others like it, was created by 
those who lived in Pelion long ago, probably for entertain 
ment purposes. 

What events are currently stored in the orb? The experi 
ences of the temporary PCs - the ones the players rolled up 
between gaming sessions. See, in an adventure in the distant 
past, those characters explored a place in Pelion called the 
Last Spire, a tower that housed the Orb of Kadu-Ra. The pres 
ence of the heroes activated the orb, which must be sentient 
to some degree - it decided that the actions of the intruders 
were likely to be interesting. Thus, it recorded everything that 
happened to them. 

If examined, the Orb of Kadu-Ra definitely radiates 
strong magic. To activate the orb, all a PC has to do is hold it 
in his hands and concentrate on unleashing its power. When 
this happens, the heroes immediately begin to experience the 
events stored within. The Dungeon Master should tell the 
players to set aside their current characters and pull out their 
temporary ones. But he still shouldn't say why, or even reveal 
that the orb is a recording device - it might influence the he 
roes' actions. 


The temporary PCs' adventure begins in "Living in the 
Past," below, and continues through "Back to the Future." The 
whole scenario should take about 20 minutes to play out. 
During that time, the original PCs are entranced. If this occurs 
in the presence of Heydril, he uses the opportunity to grab as 
much of his loot as he can and give the sods the laugh. 

N< What's the point of all this? Well, by the time the 
temporary adventure ends, the original PCs will have learned 
everything that happened to the heroes in the past. But they'll 
know the details particularly well - after all, they'll have 
lived through it themselves. And that chant'll prove useful as 
the cutters finish the rest of this chapter. 

? LIVING IN +HC PAS+ ? 

It's important for the Dungeon Master to remember that the 
temporary PCs are just that - temporary. That means he can 
be less forgiving when it comes to character injury and 
demise. Fact is, the events of the past should be particularly 
harrowing, and many (if not all) of the temporary heroes may 
well die. 

The DM should also make careful notes of everything 
that happens when the temporaiy PCs explore the Last Spire, 
because their actions might have an effect on the future (the 
original characters' present). 

THE LAS+ SPIRE 

The adventure for the temporary characters begins in Pelion, 
outside a place known to them as the Last Spire. It's a single 
conical tower of white stone, with little ornamentation. It has 
a diameter of 80 feet and stands about 100 feet tall. All 
around are ruins - foundations, really - made from the same 
white stone and covered in Pelion's fine, chalky dust. Some 
appear to have been almost unimaginably large in their day, 
but all are gone now. 

You're conn* to this desolate place in search of knowledge 
- knowledge of what lies within this mighty tower that has 
survived the cons with greater tenacity than the structures 
around it . 

Chant is the spire holds great treasures. Indeed, some say 
it's a vault. Others claim it holds the essence of the gods that 
once dwelt here. Still more rattle their hone-boxes about for 
bidden secrets waiting inside, perhaps even clues to the iden 
tity of those who built these ruins. Whichever's the case, 
you 've come to learn the truth. 

The spire has an obvious doorway, but chant has it that 
it's impossible to enter the structure. 

Though the planewalkers have already ventured through 
vast broken cities in "Out of the Darkness," the ruins of Pelion 
are vastly different from those of the prime-material world 
Ranais. With all of the dust, the extremely scant nature of the 
remains, and the mere feel of the place, the ruins of this layer 


? 93 ? 


seem much more ancient and mysterious. Those on Ranais 
might have been more frightening, but they were far less im 
posing. 

The adventure begins here because this is the point at 
which the Orb of Kadu-Ra begins its magical recording. The 
orb currently sits within the spire itself, and it takes note of 
everything that happens in and around the structure. 

GC++ING IN 

The doorway into the spire is a square-set arch, open and 
empty, though nothing but darkness lies beyond, and no 
manner of light source - magical or otherwise - can pene 
trate the blackness. Bashers examining the outside perimeter 
of the spire find another, identical open doorway on the struc 
ture's opposite side. It, too, is impenetrably dark. Anything 
passing into one of the doorways immediately comes out of 
the other, as if the space between them didn't exist. 

The PCs likely turn to magic at some point, hoping to 
learn the dark of the spire or to figure a way in. But no spells 
of any kind provide information about the inside of the 
tower; no divinations betray its secrets. What's more, the he 
roes can't enter the spire by magical means - passwall, tele 
port, dimension door, and the like just don't work. Further, the 
walls of the spire are immune to destructive magic like disin 
tegrate or lightning bolt. (Naturally, conventional attacks 
don't hurt the walls, either.) 

The Dungeon Master can make the normal rolls for any 
cutters who look for secret doors. Success indicates that a PC 
finds what appears to be the outline of a doorway in the 
stone, though the bottom of the outline is 10 feet above the 
level of the ground. The spire's walls are slippery with dust, so 
climbing attempts suffer a penalty of -30%. But if a canny 
hero reaches the level of the outline (by whatever means), he 
definitely discerns what seems to be a door - and an inscrip 
tion above it. The words read: 

The secret s found within are not Jbr those above. 

The second line of the inscription is hidden behind a 
small, removable stone plate directly below the first line (but 
still above the top of the door). Only another successful at 
tempt to find secret doors will reveal the plate. If found, the 
second line reads: 

Nor are they for those below. 

The outline doesn't mark a door at all, but a third (much 
larger) removable stone panel, behind which lies the last line 
of the inscription. However, the panel is trapped. If opened, it 
comes loose and a vile greenish gas billows out of the open 
ing. Anyone within 5 feet of the opening must make a suc 
cessful saving throw versus poison at -2 or suffer 2d6 points 
of damage - not to mention a fit of coughing and choking. 
Furthermore, anyone currently at the level of the panel must 
make a successful Dexterity check at -4 or fall, suffering ld6 



? 94 ? 






points of damage. (Sods who failed the previous save vs. poi 
son make the check at -6 due to the gas). 

Behind the large panel is the third line of the message: 

Look upon that which is first to be false. 

This portion reveals that the first line of the inscription is 
not true. In other words, the only way into the spire is 
through the top (above). 'Course, the PCs might not figure that 
out if they don't find the second inscription, or if they get 
caught up in thinking that the first two lines refer to lofty 
concepts like good and evil. That's the idea here - not every 
thing's a reference to deep meanings. Sometimes a message 
means exactly what it says. 

If a body reaches the top of the Last Spire (by whatever 
means), he suddenly and without warning finds himself on 
the inside. To those viewing from the outside, the cutter seems 
simply to disappear. But before any PCs manage to enter the 
structure, the party must deal with a potentially dangerous 
interruption. 


those great days and the gods that lived here. 

The three elves have no spoken names; instead, they use 
hand symbols to designate themselves as individuals. They're 
deadly warriors who live in tiny tribal villages around the 
ruins of Pelion. (The origin of the alabaster elves is unknown, 
and the race has completely disappeared by the time of the 
original player characters in the present.) 

If the PCs attempt to enter the Last Spire, the three elves 
try to stop them, even if it means attacking. Nothing short of 
magical coercion will convince them to let anyone poke 
around the spire. Once the PCs enter the tower, they should 
have every reason to believe that the elves will wait on the 
outside (with violent intent) for them to emerge. 

INSIDE + HE SPIRE 

The interior of the spire is much smaller than it seemed to be 
on the outside. Fact is, from where the PCs appear, the spire 
looks to be only a single round chamber, 20 feet in diameter 
and 30 feet tall. 


SILEN+ S + RANGERS 

While the PCs try to figure out a way into the spire, they're 
approached by a few of the locals - whom the heroes didn't 
even know existed. 

Suddenly, a man steps into view just a short distance 
away. Tall and lithe, he's almost invisible amid Pelion s pale 
dust, with skin like chiseled alabaster, lung hair like spun 
wool, and eyrs that re completely white. A chalky tunic hangs 
from his taut frame, covering a suit of bleached leather, and 
the sword in his hand is of pale white iron. 

? Show the players Illo K (on page 174). 


Darkness. Just seconds after reaching the top of the 
spire, you're thrust into an inky place that you 're sure is not 
at the top of the structure. Oddly, in a way you can 't guile ex 
plain. vour eyes begin to adjust to the utter blackness around 
you. and you begin to sec shapes. Before long, you can see the 
chamber you 're standing in as though it irere bathed in a mid 
night blue light - although you know it's still completely 
dark. 

At your feet is a large brass plug 4 feet Across, with a 
runic inscription engraved upon its smooth, shiny surface. 

Close examination of the plug's inscription reveals the 
following prophecy, written in an ancient tongue readable 
only to those with the ancient languages proficiency or a 
comprehend languages spell: 



The stranger's not an albino, but an elf from a people 
that outsiders call alabaster elves. He says nothing, merely 
glaring at the PCs. Like all members of his race, he's deaf. 
Only an attack or an attempt at visual communication pro 
vokes him to respond. Any offensive move by the heroes in 
vites similar action from the silent newcomer. And he's not 
alone: Two other alabaster elves hide amid the ruins, arrows 
nocked in their bows, watching their comrade's back. If the 
lone elf appears to be in danger, they'll fire. 

Hopefully, the PCs try to communicate through sign lan 
guage or some other visual means (such as drawing in the 
dust). But no matter what message they try to get across, the 
elf responds with hand signs that mean: "Go away. This place 
is forbidden." See, the alabaster elves regard the area as sa 
cred and never come near. Their legends tell of a pantheon of 
gods that dwelt here before Pelion was filled with white dust. 
In fact, their tales say, the dust is the 
remains of the gigantic white palaces 
that once covered the layer. The Last 
Spire is the only standing remnant of 


Here in this Bright World shall trod the feet of ineffable 
Darkness. A great lord of the infinite pit, once brought low. 
shall find his way here, having pulled himself from death s 
cold embrace. Beyond, he ivill find the means for his goal, but 
the price of vengeance is death again - unless he can find that 
which was his. now lust. 

Wise in the ways of the future, the unknown builders of 
the Last Spire foretold the coming of Tenebrous. The prophecy 
refers not only to his return, but also to his discovery of the 
Last Word and the fact that his newfound power will eventu 
ally consume him - unless he first finds the Wand of Orcus, 
which can stabilize his life force and revitalize him. 


? 95 ? 


The plug is magically sealed. However, a combined 
Strength of at least 70 (along with tools or poles for leverage) 
can lift it from the shaft it protects. If a spellslinger first casts 
dispel magic on the plug, a Strength total of 50 is enough to 
lift it. No other method of removing the plug (such as a knock 
spell or a chime of opening) will work. 

Once the plug is moved, the PCs see a long shaft drop 
ping down into darkness. There's no indication of how to 
leave the spire and get back outside. The walls are smooth and 
have no doors, hidden or otherwise. The shaft is the only way 
out of the chamber. 

D(c)WN + HE SHAF + 

The shaft drops straight down for 150 feet, and no stairs or 
ladder aids the descent - the PCs must come up with their 
own way down. The passage is smooth, making climbing vir 
tually impossible, and the only thing at the top to secure a 
rope is the brass plug itself. Luckily, it easily supports the 
weight of a climber. 

At the bottom of the shaft is a large chamber, an under 
ground room with a pool at its center. The pool's filled with a 
dark, greenish liquid, and it sits directly below the shaft. Fact 
is, if any PCs look down the shaft, they see nothing but the 
pool, giving the impression that the liquid is all that lies at the 
bottom. 

That's not true, but the pool is indeed dangerous. A vile 
essence has collected here from an ancient pestilence alien to 
this good realm, contaminating the water in the pool. The liq 
uid is now so bone-chilling that the merest touch inflicts ld4 
points of damage, and full immersion causes 2d8 points. 

What's worse, the evil residue has spawned a creature. A 
gigantic crystal ooze (of evil alignment) lives in the pool and 
attacks anything that enters the chamber - not out of hunger, 
but spite. It particularly enjoys attacking sods as soon as they 
emerge from the bottom of the shaft, trying to grab them and 
drag them down into the foul, green soup. 

This deep chamber is roughly circular. The pool lies in 
the middle of (he room, with about 20 feet of space between 
the outer edge of the pooI and the chamber's walls. All around 
the perimeter of the room, white marble statues stand in regal 
splendor of an ungucssable past, bach statue is of a man or 
woman fair of face and long of limb, dressed like nobility. The 
statues part only where a silver door shines from the wall , set 
back a few feet into the rock - the only apparent exit. 

The greenish water in the pooI ripples slightly. as though 
it slowly seeps in or out through an unseen access. A perry 
ear hears whispering babble all around, but you can't make 
nut any specific words. Perhaps the ghosts of forgotten gods 
still haunt this ancient chamber. 

The whispers come from the statues themselves. Each 
holds an impression of the spirits of the beings that once 
called kip in this place and the ruins above. If a canny basher 
spends at least three rounds listening to the whispers and then 


makes a successful Intelligence check, he picks up enough to 
determine one thing: These chambers under the ruins are an 
ancient storehouse of knowledge. 

The silver door is magically sealed, as was the brass plug 
above, but the seal can be overcome in the same manner. 
However, the door's also locked, its huge key long since lost. 

THE GUARDIAN (c)F SECRE + S 

When the PCs manage to open the silver door, the really har 
rowing part of this mini-adventure begins. 

As the door opens, an irresistible force flings you into the 
chamber beyond. You're caught in a maelstrom of wind and 
energy that must hare been created to be a horrific barrier. At 
the center of the swirling storm, a simple doorway beckons, 
perched on a iO-foot-tall column of stone. The door glows 
with the gleam of an activated portal. But coiled like a sinis 
ter scourge around the upper portion of the column is a ser 
pent at least i 5 feet long, obviously ready to strike at anyone 
nearing the gate. 

The creature is the wraithworm - not a wraithworm, but 
the wraithworm. The mysterious former residents of Pelion 
created it to serve as a guardian, and all wraithworms in exis 
tence are its offspring. Now, after a slumber of untold cen 
turies, the creature's awake and active. 

The PCs are caught in the swirling, sorcerous storm that 
circles the perimeter of this chamber. Each round, the poor 
sods're buffeted about for ld4 points of damage. A character 
who makes a successful Dexterity check can maneuver a bit 
in the storm. The sods spin around the room so fast that they 
make the circuit of the chamber twice per round, but they can 
make only one maneuvering attempt per round. 

If any PC tries to hurl himself out of the still-open silver 
door and back into the other chamber, he must make his Dex 
check with a -6 penalty. If the sod lunges for the doorway 
and fails, he smashes into the wall, suffering 3d6 points of 
damage, and remains caught in the storm. Even if he's suc 
cessful in getting through the door, he must make another 
Dex check at -6 or fly right into the horrid pool; those fortu 
nate enough to avoid that fate still suffer ld6 points of dam 
age from landing on the hard floor. 

The cutters might also try to hurl themselves into the 
glowing door at the center of the storm. 'Course, that's even 
more dangerous, as the wraithworm waits for a basher to 
make such a move so it can strike with its blindingly fast bite. 
Worse, since the wraithworm's poised and ready and the PC 
really can't defend himself, the creature strikes with a +2 
bonus to hit and the attack ignores all Dexterity and shield 
bonuses to the victim's Armor Class. 

Any sod bitten by the serpent is flung off-course and can't 
enter the portal (though he can try again next round). Even if 
the wraithworm misses, the cutter doesn't sail through the door 
automatically; he must make a successful Dexterity check at 
-6. Luckily, if he fails the check, he doesn't hit the wall - he 


? 96 ? 



just keeps flying about in the storm. Those making it 
through the door disappear (since they actually pass 
through a portal) and wind up in the Chamber of Secrets. 

While in the maelstrom, characters who attempt any 
other activities that normally require die rolls make those 
rolls with a -6 penalty. This pertains to attacks, saving 
throws, proficiency checks, and similar actions. Berks 
who try activities - such as spellcasting - that normally 
require no die rolls must make successful Dexterity checks 
(with no penalty) to complete their actions. 

Dispel magic won't quiet the storm, though spells 
that calm winds could succeed (though the effects would 
last only one-fourth as long as they would normally). 
Spells such as fly allow bashers to maneuver in the storm 
with a +3 bonus to their Dexterity checks. In effect, this 
reduces the penalty imposed on most actions from -6 to 
-3. Unfortunately, such magic isn't strong enough to fully 
negate the winds' powerful effects. 

THC C H A m B£ R 0F SCCRC + S 

When the PCs sail through the glowing door into the 
Chamber of Secrets, they suffer ld6 points of damage in 
landing. But they're probably just glad to escape the 
winds and the wraithworm. 

After the horrible ordeal with the swirling storm and 
the giant serpent, you've finally reached what appears to 
he a place of safety. A large room sprawls ahead of you. 
and as you gather yourselves together, you notice strange 
symbols mi the walls. Each symbol forms words in your 
mind, words that're wholly unfamiliar but somehow 
painful, causing you to look away before you can fully 
comprehend them. 

The secrets held in this chamber are known as the 
True Words: words of power so potent that their utterance 
can destroy mountains, create new life, or slay any being 

- even a god. Their might is too great for a mortal to pos 
sess, and any who try to fully understand one of the 
words would find his way into the dead-book right quick. 
If the PCs persist in studying the symbols, the Dungeon 
Master should increase the pain felt until the berks cease 
or die. For example, unless they quit examining the runes, 
the sods might suffer an amount of damage each round 
equal to half of their remaining hit points (rounded up). 

It was here that Tenebrous found (or rather, will find 

- remember, this is set in the past) the Last Word, which 
enables him to slay any to whom he speaks it. However, 
since dying and returning to life, the blood's no longer 
quite divine enough to wield such might, and the knowl 
edge of the word is devouring him. Only by finding the 
Wand of Orcus can he regain enough of his former power 
to survive. 


? 97 ? 





While the PCs get their hearings, they're approached 
from across the chamber by the room's custodians, Evreth 
and Tchunim. 


Two curious mm approach you from the far end of the 
rust room. where you apparently couldn't see them. One is 
short and slightly portly . with unkempt brown hair and 
beard. The other, who seems a bit older, is tall , 
thin, balding, and clean-shaven. Both wear simple, 
elegant clothing, though the shorter man s gar 
ments appear slightly rumpled . 

" Hello.the round-faced basher says, almost 
making the greeting a question. "What are you 
doing here?" 

The tall, slim man says nothing, bur sneers 
almost imperceptibly. 


Long ago, before the gods vanished from 
Pelion, they left two mortals in charge of main 
taining this chamber, which contained some of 
their greatest secrets. The deities granted these 
two proxies - Evreth and Tchunim - a fair 
amount of power and virtual immortality. 

Tchunim, the shorter of the pair, comes 
across as a kind, gentle man. Evreth, however, 
is smug, sarcastic, condescending, and haughty. 
The two men aren't guardians, and they don't 
react with hostility or treat the PCs as intrud 
ers. If the bashers've made it this far. there's 
no sense in that. 


"My name is Tchunim," says the shorter man. "This is 
it hat we call the Chamber of Secrets. Each of the symbols you 
see represents one of the True Words. These words can - H 

"Come now. my dear," the taller man interrupts. "I m 
sure that brute and powerful heroes such as these wouldn't 
hare just stumbled in here without knowing where they were. '' 
The condescension in his voice is so thick you can practically 
feel it like a barbed whip. 

If asked, Tchunim continues with his explanation of the 
power behind the True Words, though he doesn't know the 
words' origins. Each time the PCs ask a question, Evreth 
smiles with superiority, but he does add that the words pre 
date even the gods themselves - though he states it in such a 
way as to imply that he has contempt even for the powers. 
'Course, if asked directly how he feels about the gods, Evreth 
feigns modesty, though his sarcasm often comes through. 

Tchunim and Evreth seem to tolerate each other, but only 
barely. They never openly argue, however, and if asked, they 
share the following information: 

? The power of the True Words is such that they quickly 
consume any mortal who tries to learn them. 


? The gods that made their home in Pelion are either 
dead or departed for other planes. It happened a very 
long time ago, and the ruins above were once their 
great cities. 

? The snakelike creature is the wraithworm, a monster 
created by the former inhabitants of the spire. 

? The pool of water at the bottom of the shaft has be 
come corrupted by the activities of evil people above 
on this good plane. (The proxies don't refer to Orcus or 
Tenebrous; they're speaking of a completely different 
problem.) 

? The Last Spire, like the rest of the ruins, is beginning to 
fall victim to the ravages of time. People are already 
forgetting that it stands here, and soon it will be gone 
from the land and from memory. 

? The only exit from the spire lies within this chamber: a 
secret door on the far wall that acts as an always-open 
portal. Anyone who steps into it emerges from one of 
the darkened doorways on the outside of the tower. 


? 98 ? 





















BACK + (c) + HE FU + URE 

Once the PCs have learned all they can from the proxies, 
there's nothing left for them to do but leave the spire. As 
canny bashers might've feared, the alabaster elves are waiting 
in force when the heroes exit. This time, however, not three 
but 20 warriors wait to slay the characters for the unforgiv 
able sin of entering the Last Spire. (This occurs even if the PCs 
killed all three of the elves that approached earlier - it didn't 
take long for the rest of the tribe to learn of the deaths.) 

The berks can try to talk their way out, but it does no 
good. Their only hope for survival is to give the place the 
laugh. But, to be frank, it makes for a better story if they all 
die. After all, they're just temporary characters. More impor 
tantly, their deaths means that when the original PCs find the 
Orb of Kadu-Ra, the information it imparts to them is truly 
unique. The temporary PCs never lived to tell anyone what 
they found within the Last Spire, and they became nothing 
more than a footnote to the dwindling mystique of the place, 
which (as Evreth and Tchunim predicted) eventually falls 
apart. 

At this point in the adventure, the Dungeon Master 
should shift back to the present, to the moment that the orig 
inal heroes activated the Orb of Kadu-Ra. The DM should now 
explain to the PCs that what just happened to them - the en 
tire scenario with the Last Spire - wasn't real. The cutters ex 
perienced it vicariously, not as if it were a dream or a story, 
but more as if they briefly lived out other folks' lives. Natu 
rally, the PCs have no idea of when those events actually oc 
curred. 

The game now resumes normally, with the original char 
acters. The Orb of Kadu-Ra has no other recordings to share, 
and it may or may not function again. The device decides for 
itself when to create its magical chronicles, so the DM can 
choose when and if it does so. 

THC SPIRC 

? IN +HC PKCSCN+ ? 

After learning of the Last Spire, the PCs might try to find it 
and explore it for themselves. But some cutters might decide 
there's no need, figuring they already got all they needed to 
know from the orb. That may be true. However, if the plane- 
walkers don't yet know who's behind all the trouble, who 
came to Pelion to learn the True Words (or maybe just one, 
but which?), or who the prophecy on the brass plug refers to, 
they might wish to explore the spire in the present. And, in 
deed, there is more to tumble to within the structure: Tene 
brous has paid a destructive visit to the proxies in the Cham 
ber of Secrets. 

'Course, finding the spire presents a problem. It's long 
since collapsed and its rubble eroded (along with that of the 
other ruins nearby). There's nothing at the site to even mark 
that it ever existed - time destroys everything, eventually. 
But because they experienced the actions of the temporary 


characters, the PCs possess an innate, almost spiritual feel for 
direction regarding the Last Spire. In a sense, they've been 
there before. Finding the right spot takes some wandering, to 
be sure, but the cutters'll somehow know in their hearts when 
they're on the right track. 

Ni If the temporary PCs did something lasting while 
they were in the spire, such as carving their names in a wall, 
that evidence might still remain for the original PCs to find. 
That kind of connection will help to make the past scenario 
seem all the more real to the present-day heroes, who'll see 
something in the spire and think, "I did that." On the other 
hand, the DM can undo any changes that he doesn't want to 
be lasting - the spire's a very magical place. 

This applies to all descriptions below. 

The details of what's currently found in ^ 
the spire are subject to change, depending 
on what the temporary PCs did. 

GE++ING IN 

The PCs enter the spire exactly the same way the temporary 
characters did, only now there's no structure to climb. If a 
body somehow reaches the spot where the top of the spire was 
- a hundred feet up in the air - he vanishes and reappears in 
the circular room with the brass plug. The plug, however, no 
longer blocks the shaft. It's been pulled out and tossed to one 
side. Canny heroes will notice that the plug is not where the 
temporary PCs had left it (the DM might require a berk to 
make an Intelligence check before tumbling to this fact). 
Someone else has used the shaft. 

D (c) W N + HE SHAF + 

The room at the bottom of the long shaft still contains the 
pool of foul water, but the crystal ooze has passed on. If the 
temporary PCs put the thing in the dead-book, it's nowhere to 
be found. Otherwise, bits and pieces of the slimy creature are 
scattered all about, dried and hardened. 

A few of the statues lie broken, and the silver door hangs 
open. (No Intelligence check is needed to realize that the tem 
porary heroes didn't leave things that way.) The sounds of the 
swirling storm can be heard from within the next chamber. 
Unless they somehow secure themselves, characters that step 
within 3 feet of the doorway are automatically sucked into the 
maelstrom. 

THE GUARDIAN (c)F SECRE + S 

If the temporary PCs killed the wraithworm, there's no sign of 
the creature now. Otherwise, Tenebrous slew it when he 
passed through this room, leaving its body still coiled around 
the rock column and its head bobbing in the winds. But even 
though the guardian's dead, the storm still rages, so the PCs 
must make the same Dexterity checks in order to hurl them 
selves through the portal. 


? 99 ? 


THE CH A ITl BE R (c)f SECRE+S 

The walls of this room, once covered with symbols that stood 
for mighty words of power, are now blackened, scarred, and 
destroyed. None of the symbols remain. Selfish in the ex 
treme, Tenebrous didn't want anyone else to learn the secrets 
he found here. 

Only Tchunim occupies the chamber now (assuming that 
the temporary PCs didn't kill him). He doesn't approach the 
bashers, but remains on the other side of the chamber, not 
even noticing their appearance. It's not just time that has 
changed the poor sod. When Tenebrous came through, he 
slew Evreth, probably for his smugness. Now, Tchunim's com 
panion is gone, his purpose (watching over the secrets) is 
gone - Tenebrous took everything from him. The proxy has 
fallen into a deep depression. 

Fact is, Tchunim's barely willing to carry on a conversa 
tion with the PCs. He does, however, offer a description of the 
intruder that killed Evreth and destroyed the symbols. It hap 
pened a few years ago, but Tchunim has no idea exactly how 
long it's been. 

"The being that entered our Chamber of Secrets was like 
nothing I d seen before. It was gaum and angular, almost shad 
owy and ethereal. Eyes, dark and piercing, stared out at us. but 
the creature said nothing. It seemed to know exactly what it 
wanted as it glanced around the room and finally found the 
symbol it sought. In no time at all. it mastered the word - and 
that alone speaks volumes about the being's nature. I could tell 
from its changed expression that it had learned the secret. Then 
it turned upon Evreth ... poor Evreth ..." 

As Tchunim begins to fall back into painful reverie, a 
canny basher might think to ask him which word the invader 
learned. 

"The . . . the most horrible of all - the word that it spoke 
to Evreth. almost as if to test it. to see if it really worked. The 
creature learned the Last Word. " 

Tchunim says little else. He's distraught at the idea of liv 
ing forever, all alone, in the Chamber of Secrets. But the PCs 
can't convince him to do anything else - a faithful servant of 
the gods certainly wouldn't abandon his post, no matter what 
the reason. The bashers can't do much more, and before long, 
they no doubt decide to leave through the secret portal. This is 
a sad ending to their Pelion adventure, but one that reminds 
the PCs that they're dealing with a truly evil foe, and evil acts 
cause folks pain. 

? WI + H0U+ + HE (c)rb ? 

What if the PCs never found Heydril or the stolen Orb of 
Kadu-Ra, or just never figured out what to do with it? Obvi 
ously, they won't get to experience the events recorded by the 


orb, so they'll never learn of the existence of the Last Spire, 
much less how to get inside or what might be found there. 

If this occurs, a generous Dungeon Master might give the 
berks another chance to use the orb, or even provide them 
with some alternate method of finding the spot where the Last 
Spire stood. 'Course, without having used the orb, they won't 
know the secret to gaining entrance, and even if they do get 
inside, they won't have much chance of figuring out what's 
going on. Sure, they could still hear Tchunim's sad tale, but it 
won't have quite the same resonance to them. 

? AN ENDING ? 

Once the PCs leave the Chamber of Secrets, they appear back 
at the former site of the Last Spire. From there, their best bet 
is to journey back to the necropolis of Bal-tiref, where any 
leatherhead can point them to a portal to Sigil. (Smart cutters 
might've already asked the locals about it the first time they 
were there.) 

The portal is - surprise, surprise - the entrance to a crypt. 
It's easily found, since a previous planewalker scratched out the 
name on the plaque above the tomb's doorway and instead 
wrote, "Cage or crypt, it's home." The key is a dust reed, com 
monly found in Amun-thys (though usually barely alive and 
extremely brittle). The one-way portal deposits travelers inside 
the Mortuary, the headquarters of the Dustmen. 

If desired, the Dungeon Master can play off the events 
that occurred to the temporary characters in future adven 
tures. For example, an NPC the heroes interact with could be 
a descendant of one of the temporary bashers. The DM could 
even rule that Cardule or Quah-Namog - two NPCs who ap 
pear in the next chapter of "Out of the Darkness" - is one of 
the eventual progeny of the temporary characters. If so, the 
DM should be sure to remark on the strange familiarity of a 
mannerism or facial feature in the NPC descendant, or per 
haps even give the NPC a unique item that once belonged to 
the ancient character. 

For this to work, the PC progenitor must have survived 
the events of the Last Spire so he could go on to have chil 
dren. He could have had them before the recorded adventure 
took place, but in that case there'd be no unique item to ce 
ment the connection - with the PC dead, he couldn't have 
passed the object on to his children. 

Here's another variation: One of the original PCs can 
eventually discover that one of the temporary heroes is an an 
cestor of his. But this might mean that the present-day bash 
ers learn the time frame of the recorded adventure, and it's 
probably best for that always to remain vague. 

As a less dramatic (but still entertaining) link to the past, 
the DM can throw in occasional references to something that 
the temporary characters did, or even drop one of their names 
into some other event in the far distant past. Again, the con 
nection should be vague, but the specifics don't matter any 
way - it's the reference itself that's fun. 


? 100 ? 


?7 1 MhiTMT t ! t TTV / t H 


rm^yi 1 1/• 111 ittv v,|, i iiii\-"'>T 

X\f^ ce 



)u^ ' 5 

4 SzzIk i'Lc C jr\ thief tff S e ct^ts 

* (j7l/AKi>Cj> 




A*e 


+ /"< 


eepers. 


.7 


* W h c> ARt +k 3--I* € ^ 


s^c 


4 
































Interlude 


wisD(c)m is 
LEARNING FR(c)m 
(c)ne s rn IS + AKES. 

GREA + ER WISD(c)m is 
LEARNING 
fr(c) m +he mis+AK 
(c)F (c) + HERS. 

- TENEBR0US 


ES 


Tenebrous seethed with anger. 

After journeying across many planes, he had 
finally returned to his hidden fortress deep in the 

Bottom of the Multiverse, surrounded by the pure hunger of the Negative En 
ergy Plane. He leaned back into his self-made throne, his shadowy, 
undead body rustling into the bones and skulls of the terrible seat 

m with a sound that'd drive a mortal man barmy. Yet Tenebrous 
gained no comfort from the place. In fact, it disturbed him with an 
unquietness of spirit that he hadn't felt since he rose from his Astral 
grave. The very walls of Tcian Sumere angered him. 

There was a time in the dim past when Tenebrous - using a different 
name - kept certain servants around for the express purpose of having some 
one to take his anger out on. If only he'd known then how it 
would feel to be unable to afford such luxuries in slaves 
- or even in time. 

These days, Tenebrous had no great 
quantity of either. 

Certain forces in 
the multiverse had 
obviously learned of 
his existence, and possi 
bly even his plans. He'd 
known, of course, that this would 
happen eventually, but it still irritated him. In a way, he'd enjoyed his activities 
up to this point - watching from the shadows, secretly picking up the chant, 
and slaying whomever got in his way. There was much to be said for subtlety 
and subterfuge, tactics he'd rarely employed before his death. 

But his anger prevented him from focusing on such things at the moment. 
(In times past, his wrath was something to be feared; entire layers of planes 
quaked in his outrage. His displeasure usually resulted in death, destruction, and 
pain. And it would yet again.) Someone had violated Tcian Sumere - his very 
home. Someone had gone to the Vault on Oerth, the object of hated Kiaransalee's 
attention, and found the other drow worm who'd dared to touch the Wand of 
Orcus. Now, even now, the meddlers almost certainly sped to Pandemonium. 

Agathion, the fourth layer of the Howling Plane. The answer to the ques 
tion he'd asked again and again for these last many years. The location of the 
Wand of Orcus! Yes, it'd take some time to determine the wand's exact po 
sition in the caves, but by the lowest layer of the Abyss, he wouldn't let it 
take so long that someone else might reach it first! 

Red anger like bloody bile clouded his mind, but Tenebrous pushed it back, 
built a dam to hold the flood of fury that threatened to consume him. He knew 
that if he had any weakness at all, if there was ever a reason he'd failed in the 
past, it was because of his tendency to be swept away in crimson rage - the same 
wave that washed over him now. But the task ahead was too important to let his 
tanar'ric fury engulf him. (Was it the modron in him now, some tenacious logical 
spark, that made it possible to calm his fiery passions? And if so, was that a 
blessing or a curse? Tenebrous did not know.) He must locate the wand. 

His wand. 

He had to stand up from the throne. His outrage wouldn't let him sit still. 
There were forces attempting to keep him from his wand! When he was so close! 
Damn them all! He would crush them and rend their flesh from their - 

He stopped. Must stay calm, he thought. He knew he'd never find the wand 
if he didn't stay calm. 

Tenebrous had learned from his enemies over the last few years - a trait 
he'd never had before. Perhaps he could learn something from the way they 
acted. He'd spent much time stealing the secrets they possessed, but perhaps he 



? 102 ? 



should steal some of their meth 
ods as well. 

Sweet Tomeri, goddess of wisdom and love - 
even as he destroyed her home and slew her servants 
and lovers, she did not get angry. Her cool, calm de 
meanor would've been the death of him had he not 
wielded the power of the Last Word. Her demise was cer 
tainly . .. pleasurable, but all the more because Tomeri, of all the deities he'd 
confronted, offered the greatest challenge. And the only reason for it. Tenebrous be 
lieved, was that she knew how to keep her wits about her. 

Immortality must breed ineffectuality, he thought, or so many powers would not be 
overcome with anger and disbelief when actually opposed. Eons of comfort and safety led to an 
inability to cope with challenge and danger. Tomeri, however, was - or, rather, had been - different. 
He 
could be different too. 

Yes. He would find the wand. He would send the faithful visages to retrieve it. They could slay any 
thing that got in their way - he was sure of that. And now that he knew which plane and layer to look 
upon, if he just concentrated, perhaps he could sense the wand. After all, his connection to it had been 
so 
great for so long. Even when he lived as a simple Abyssal lord, uncounted centuries past, he possessed 
the 
wand - why, he'd fashioned it himself through painstaking work and vast amounts of energy. So if he 
could just remain calm . . . focus his anger like a tool . . . reach out across the planes . . . perhaps he 
could ... perhaps ... 

Tenebrous sat back down in his throne, a razor-edged smile coming to his dark mouth. His deadly 



eyes narrowed. 

"Come to me, my servants!" he shouted. "Come to me, my visages. I have a task for you - 
the most important task of all." 

Dark wraiths began to flit and flutter about the room, heeding their master's summons. 

"I have found my wand." 









CHAPTfk VIII: 

d"g?SS+ 

?j^HX;ein"HiUin 


M All this sod-cursed hiding really pikes me off/' 

Pirreg said through his teeth, walking orer to the 
window. He could feel the wagon moring through 

the darkness, but there was nothing outside the window to give 
hint any point of reference. The walls of the wagon muffed the 
wailing of the wind just enough to enable them to talk. 

"Well, why don't wc just leave the whole plane?" Ant ha 
swished her tail nervously and spoke very* fast. "We could go some 
where they'd never think of looking, like the plane 
of Smoke or something. Maybe even the Cage." 

"What - have the winds gotten to you?" Pir 
reg lashed out. "None of those places would work. 
They'd find us. They'd look in those places first. 
No. we re got to stay right here. They'd never ex 
pect that." 

Ant ha looked at her partner - his 
tousled hair . his 
unkempt cloth 
ing, his wild 
eyes. She real 
ized that he was no 
longer the man with 
whom she'd left Fortitude. So 
much had happened to them since then. Pandemonium had so many horrors to 
torture a body 's soul. She knew that the winds had driven one of them barmy, 
but it wasn't her. No. Antha wouldn't let it happen to her. 


WIND? 

WHA + WIND? 

A B A Rm Y 
wHfi's BEEN (c) N 
PANDEmeNium 
fAR +(c)(c) L(c) N G 


? GE + + ING S+AR+CD ? 

By this point in the adventure, the player characters should've decided to travel 
to Agathion, the fourth layer of Pandemonium, and find the Wand of Orcus be 
fore Tenebrous does. Unfortunately, Agathion's sodding difficult to reach, even 
if a body knows exactly where he's going. The best plan is to head first to the 
Outlander gate-town of Bedlam, or even to Pandesmos, the first layer of Pande 
monium, which most berks say is the most hospitable - or, to be more accurate, 
the least inhospitable - layer of the plane. 

From Sigil, the PCs can reach either place fairly easily, particularly if any of 
the cutters belong to the Bleak Cabal. See, the Bleakers have their own portals to 
both Bedlam and their citadel, the Madhouse (see below). However, if the heroes 
can't get help from the Bleakers, they can still find a portal to Pandesmos in a 
dark little alleyway in the Hive; the key is a scream of sincere fear. 


PANDEmeNium 

Pandemonium is a place of solid rock with wind-blown tunnels snaking through 
it. No two passageways seem to be exactly the same size; they range from claus 
trophobic crawlways to huge tunnels that're miles across. The gravity within the 
tunnels is usually directed toward the nearest side, so a body can stand on any 
surface as easily as any other. 'Course, it can be a bit disorienting, what with 
party members all walking along different surfaces of the same tunnel, and it 
makes combat a real nightmare. 

Sages believe that the tunnels're formed by the constantly blowing - and to 
tally unpredictable - winds. Sometimes they're breezes that do little more than 
muss a planewalker's hair, and sometimes they're more like hurricanes that bounce 
a berk around a tunnel like a rag doll. No matter what, though, the winds bring 


? 104 ? 



with them madness, either from 
the deafening roar or from the haunting 
wails of other sods lost forever in the caverns. Fact is, 
the word "barmy" originated here. It's no wonder that Pan 
demonium earned the nickname the Howling Plane. 

What's more, the tunnels are utterly without natural 
light. Berks need to bring their own, keeping in mind that 
the winds tend to blow out torches and poorly shielded lanterns in the blink of 
an eye. Magical sources of light last longer, but they also draw the attention of what 
ever else might be wandering through the dark tunnels. And player characters who decide 
to skip light altogether and rely solely on infravision won't have an easy time of it - the cold 
stone walls of the passages don't radiate enough heat to let a PC make out the terrain too well. 

It's no surprise, then, that Pandemonium's full of folks who're already insane or well on their way. 
Still, the plane does have its safehouses - small communities where those who've lost their minds and 
those who want to avoid that fate gather to stave off wind, darkness, and madness for a short while. In 
these places, the PCs can pick up the chant just like they would anywhere else: by wigwagging with the 
locals. They just have to get used to talking to barmies. If they can do that, they can learn about Agath- 
ion in at least three spots: 


? Tin Madhouse. This is one of the friendlier burgs on all of Pandemonium. It's a citadel in Pan- 
desmos run by the Bleak Cabal - those leatherheads actually seem to like the mind-bending plane. 
Because the Madhouse is the most welcoming of the three sites, it's probably the PCs' best bet for 
getting the real chant and hiring a somewhat trustworthy guide. 

? Bedlam. Bedlam, the gate-town to Pandemonium, has more of an evil taint. See, whereas the Mad 
house is a shelter against the horrors of the plane, Bedlam is a bastion representing its twisted mad 
ness. The town has fewer berks willing to help a body out or even listen to his questions. 


? Windgi i m. This burg in Phlegethon (the third layer) has a real attitude. The locals don't like out 
siders, and they wear their status as exiles and outcasts like a badge. A planewalker can find beings 
here from just about every race in the multiverse, sods who piked off the wrong blood and found 
themselves on Pandemonium as a result. Most folks refer to the locals as "the Banished. 


Although the Madhouse is the most likely to prove helpful, all three towns have their share of mad 
men, addle-coves, and well-lanned spivs. 'Course, canny PCs might consult graybeards in Sigil (or other 
cities) to learn about Agathion before ever setting foot on the Howling Plane, but they 11 just tell the 
bash 
ers to ask around on Pandemonium anyway - no one off-plane seems to know the first thing about the 
mysterious layer. 

Once the heroes talk to the right chant-mongers, pay the right garnish, and deal with the right 
barmies in just the right way, they tumble to the name of the place that's said to have the dark they 
need: 
the Cynosure. 

N> >11 For more information on Pandemonium, refer to the Planes of Chaos boxed set (2603). 


? GUfS + S (c)F + HF CYN0SURF ? 

Part circus, part fortress, and part caravan, the Cynosure is a nomadic group of bashers who travel about 
the first layer of Pandemonium in huge wagons. Folks flock to the Cynosure for entertainment, for the 
bloods put on the best and wildest shows that most anyone's ever seen. What's more, outcasts and 
fugi 
tives come to the Cynosure to hide - the caravan's main fortress is a sanctuary like no other. 

What's a traveling show like the Cynosure doing on the Howling Plane? Nowhere else would such a 
diverse group work together for a goal like entertainment, and no one but the barmies of Pandemonium 
would accept such a thing. That's not to say that all the members of the Cynosure are insane, but, truth 
is, 
no one lives on the plane for any length of time and hangs onto his outlook and ideals. Some berks are 
quick to point out that Pandemonium - one of the loneliest planes - doesn t have much of an 
audience. 
What they don't realize is that folks come from all over the multiverse to see the Cynosure, but that's 
still 


? 105 ? 


I LIKE PRE+ + Y 
SH0W mAKE hie 


even IN SAD PLACE. 

- DR0UG. 

A HALf-(r)GR€ GUES + 

(c) F +H€ 

CYN0SURC 



not the point. See, the show's the thing. It's not the audience 
or the jink - it's the show. (Don't get it? Stand out in the 
winds for a while longer. Understanding'll come eventually.) 

The Cynosure didn't just spring up overnight. Long ago, a 
prime-material spellslinger named Uynchar deBebos - also 
known as the Wandering Wizard - created a floating castle 
with which to roam his world. However, as powerful as he was, 
Uynchar had even more powerful enemies. They banished him 
and his castle to Pandemonium and figured that was the end 
of that. Typical clueless primes - it was just the beginning. 

Uynchar started taking in other folks on the plane who 
were outcasts like himself. Within 
the castle walls, protected against 
the wind, they sang songs 
and performed tricks for 
amusement and comfort. 

Word spread, and the castle 
began to draw cutters who were 
interested in see 
ing "the show." 

Uynchar grew to 
like being the cen 
ter of attention, and 
the Cynosure was born. 

'Course, the poor sod went a 
little barmy toward the end of his life, and 
he proclaimed that the Cynosure should never stop mov 
ing - that no single location was worthy of hosting the show 
permanently. And, except when necessary (such as to let the 
draft animals feed and rest), Uynchar's wish is still carried out 
today. Fact is, the constant movement is another benefit to 
those using the Cynosure to hide from the outside world. 

The current members of the Cynosure regard the long- 
dead Uynchar as a hero and genius. Today, the traveling com 
pany consists of 300 humans, tieflings, half-elves, githzerai, 
gnolls, bugbears, elves, halflings, and bariaur. A hill giant and 
a pair of gremlins are also pan of the group. Alignment and 
race aren't that important here; rather, a loyalty and feeling of 
community ties the Cynosure together amid the chaos of the 
plane. Each member has a specific role (performer, stagehand, 
guard, laborer, and so on), though most carry out many dif 
ferent duties, and almost everyone can drive a wagon. 

THE WAG(c) N S 

The 58 wagons that make up the caravan range wildly in size, 
but ail are garishly painted and decorated, making the Cyno 
sure a sight to behold even before a body gets in to see the 
show. Only the main part of the fortress-theater floats; all of 
the other wagons roll through the tunnels normally. Many of 
the wagons' owners place whistles and bells on their trans 
ports so the winds of Pandemonium do more than just howl - 
they create an oddly pleasing cacophony of sound. All wag 
ons sport hooded lanterns to provide illumination, and col 
ored screens over many of the light sources produce an even 
more ostentatious visual effect. Thus, with the music and 


LIGH + S. 
HAPPY, 


sound coming from the wagons (and the theater itself) and the 
flamboyant appearance of the caravan, the Cynosure is un 
mistakable, even at a great distance. 

Thi Main Fortr r ss-T h r atfr . An amazing sight to behold, this 
structure (or vehicle, or whatever a body calls it) is actually a 
huge magical construct with a number of attached wagons. 
The main portion of the fortress-theater is a floating stone 
castle that glides 4 to 5 feet over the surface of the ground, 
moving as dictated by the Cynosure. The interior is primarily 
a theater where many hundreds of spectators can watch the 
show. The castle's tough, too - the upper 
portion is well-fortified with parapets and 
ramparts on its crenelated walls, and 
turrets from which defenders can repel 
attackers. 

Ropes, chains, and wooden walk 
ways attach large wagons and carts to the main 
building. The best performers (and the castle de 
fenders) live in these wagons. But they're also 
used for guest quarters, storage areas, 
workshops, and other applications as 
needed, since the auditorium takes 
up so much space within the main 
structure. 

In the theater, the Cynosure performs garish ex 
travaganzas with acrobatics, magic, illusions, animal acts, 
dancing, singing, and all manner of other diversions. The 
spectacles often feature many acts performing at the same 
time, creating an overwhelming riot of entertainment. Be 
tween the castle's thick stone walls and the din of the show, a 
body quickly forgets the howling winds outside. 

Thi Wai."on-Kips. These carts, most of which are the size of nor 
mal wagons, are pulled by mules, oxen, or (rarely) horses. Two 
or three performers, or one performer and his family, live in 
each wagon. (The Cynosure is a close affair, and a performer's 
family members are often performers themselves.) Because the 
caravan rolls onward so much of the time, one person must al 
ways remain with each wagon to drive the animals. 

The St thy Wagons. Naturally, it's sodding difficult to supply an 
operation like the Cynosure. These folks have the dark of Pan- 
desmos, though, and they know where to find food and water 
for the caravan's people and animals. If they know they won't 
be able to find something along the way, they bring it with 
them in huge wagons and replenish the stock whenever they 
pass by or through settlements like the Madhouse. Each supply 
wagon is 15 to 30 feet long and is pulled by large teams of 
strong animals, such as oxen, bison, or mules. 

Thi Baihi Wagons. These extremely fast vehicles are tiny 
wagons - more like armored chariots, really - pulled by the 
best horses, or even howlers or nightmares. If the Cynosure 
comes under attack, the battle wagons charge out of the cara 
van formation and drive into the ranks of the enemy with 


? 106 ? 



wild abandon, hoping to sow confusion and break the attack 
ers' morale as well as inflict heavy damage. 

T(c) P BILLING 

The leader of the Cynosure and star of the show is a wizard-ac 
robat named Ophiliana (PI/9 tiefling/11111 ,T 10/Bleak Cabal/ 
CN). A manic-depressive sod, she's either flamboyantly san 
guine or near-catatonically depressed. Her mood swings are 
sudden, but they don't occur one right after another; Ophiliana 
doesn't bounce back and forth between moods like a barmy. 

If a body wants sanctuary within the Cynosure, he's got 
to approach Ophiliana and convince her of his need for long 
term shelter (longer than someone sitting through a few 
shows, that is). The berk should also be ready to pay a fair 
garnish to help cover the caravan's general upkeep. Whether 
she's up or down, however, Ophiliana's a compassionate soul, 
more likely to accept a supplicant than turn him away. 

As a performer, her favorite stunt is creating dazzling 
magical illusions while balancing in or hanging from 
death-defying positions. Anyone can 
see her just by buying a ticket 
to the show. Getting to 


talk to Ophiliana for other reasons depends on her current 
mood. However, the tiefling's generally social and enjoys the 
company of others. She particularly craves attention and flat 
tery and is easily swayed by a cutter skilled at rattling his 
bone-box. 

A smart berk can guess at her attitude about the Cyno 
sure: She doesn't tolerate anything that stands in the way of 
the performance, whether that means the show in general or 
her own place as the star. Truth is, she mercilessly crushes 
anyone who hinders the show. 

Confusingly, the other members of the Cynosure also 
refer to their leader as "the Cynosure," in part because the 
tiefling embodies the show like no one else. 

B0AKDING 

Not too long after the PCs reach Pandemonium, they find the 
Cynosure traveling through one of the cavernous passages 
that wind through Pandesmos. But the caravan doesn't travel 
in single file. The wagons occupy different 
positions in the roundish tunnel, 
so carts go almost all the 
way around the cir 
cumference of the 



















It's easy to catch up with the Cynosure. Assuming that 
the heroes don't look or act like raiders, the folks on the wag 
ons greet the PCs warmly and tell them to pass through the 
carts until they reach the fortress-theater, which is close to the 
center of the caravan. Once there, they must pay admission in 
order to get inside and see the show. Prices depend on 
whether they want to sit in the bleeder seats (2 sp each), the 
barmy's balcony (1 gp each), the crown seats (5 gp each), or 
the grand circle (10 gp each). 

THC SH0W 

Like a grand circus, the show runs continuously in the theater. 
Several acts perform at the same time, competing for the au 
dience's attention. Die spectacle never begins or ends, so the 
PCs don't need to worry about when to take their seats. 
There's always something to see. 

One of the central figures in the show is Lorimmos, a hill 
giant. At different times during a performance, he: juggles 
huge boulders; holds up a platform on which a number of half- 
lings execute feats of acrobatics; and suspends a singer hang 
ing from a rope held in the giant's teeth. Meanwhile, tumblers 
with flaming torches swing about on trapezes while musicians 
play and clowns cavort. Trained dogs, birds, bears, and owl- 
bears as well as charmed leucrotta, perytons, and other beasts 
do tricks. A seemingly endless cascade of dancers, singers, ac 
tors, comedians, acrobats, and a myriad of other entertainers 
display their talents for the audience's pleasure. 

? Show the players Illo M (on page 175). 

The whole thing is such a welcome change and blessed 
respite from the screaming winds of Pandemonium that even 
those driven to the brink of madness are soothed and re 
freshed. 'Course, what with the Howling Plane being tainted 
by evil, only a true addle-cove'd let his guard down com 
pletely. Though most of the members of the Cynosure are 
fairly honest, a few knights of the post and cony-catchers lurk 
among them - and certainly among the audience. Almost 
without fail, a pickpocket tries to bob one of the PCs, or a 
cross-trader tries to run a peel. 

One common trick used against sods obviously new to 
the Cynosure involves a con man selling programs to the 
show. Thing is, there is no program. It's just gibberish on a 
piece of paper, but most folks don't realize they've been had 
until the berk's long gone. 

The Cynosure posts a few guards (many of them bug 
bears or gnolls) here and there to deter such peels, but not all 
of them are beyond bobbing rubes, either. Still, the Dungeon 
Master should remember that such activity is the exception, 
not the rule. Overall, in the wind-racked tunnels, it's a lot 
safer inside the wagons than out. 

During the show, the PCs can ask around about anything 
they'd like - the entertainment is such a loud, boisterous 
spectacle that the audience members aren't restricted from 
talking. The noise is also a good cover for sensitive conversa 


tions. The show puts folks at ease, too, so most don't mind giv 
ing a fellow show-goer a little chant or advice (as long as the 
berk doesn't ask too many questions - that's just irritating). 
Canny PCs will take this opportunity to learn all they can 
about the Cynosure. 

HIDING IN PLAIN SIGH + 

The chant-mongers in the Madhouse (or Bedlam or 
Windglum) were right: The Cynosure is the best place on the 
whole plane to learn about Agathion. But that doesn't mean 
it's easy. Many a berk hides out in the caravan, taking sanctu 
ary among the performers, and they all have secrets. Only a 
few, however, know anything about Pandemonium's deepest 
and darkest layer. 

Two such sources are Pirreg, a human fighter, and Antha, 
a bariaur priestess. Once part of a group of lawful good 
bloods from Fortitude, they came to Pandemonium to find the 
legendary deva known only as Blind Righteous, who was said 
to be imprisoned somewhere in Agathion. Unfortunately, the 
entire group - except for Pirreg and Antha - either died or 
went stark raving mad. The two survivors raised the ire of a 
marilith named Iuthaecab while escaping from a secret 
tanar'ri acropolis hidden in Phlegethon. (Apparently, the 
tanar'ri wanted to locate something in Agathion as well, but 
the two planewalkers never discovered what it was.) 

Pirreg now plans to stay in the sanctuary of the Cynosure 
for the indefinite future. Truth to tell, he's become a bit 
touched in the head, though he's not fully insane. The sod re 
fuses to talk to the PCs, answer their questions, or help them 
in any way. 

Antha, however, is desperate to escape from Pandemo 
nium and return to Fortitude. All she wants is a quick way off 
the plane, whether it's a spell, a magical item, or enough jink 
to buy one (at least 5,000 gp). Directions to the nearest portal 
aren't good enough - she wants something concrete. Besides, 
the bariaur doesn't want to go out into the howling winds 
again if she can help it. 

If the PCs promise to help her, Antha slips out when Pir- 
reg's not looking and meets with them in secret to discuss the 
terms. If they don't suggest a meeting place, she does - an 
area underneath the Cynosure's stage, where the trained 
beasts are kept. The place is noisy (because of the show above 
and the beasts themselves), but it's relatively private. In ex 
change for the heroes' aid, she gladly shares with them any 
secrets she knows - except one. 

See, the most pitiful thing about Pirreg and Antha ain't 
that they were once champions of goodness and have now be 
come pathetic wretches. No, the worst thing is that the sods ac 
tually found Blind Righteous, but they were so concerned about 
their own safety (they were pursued by a horde of bulezau and 
babau) that they didn't take the time to free the deva. This is, of 
course, a secret they'll never willingly tell. 

Still, the PCs shouldn't press Antha too much on the 
matter. They're probably far more interested in reaching 
Agathion, and the bariaur indeed has the dark of it. 


? 108 ? 



"There are creatures in Phlegethon. the third layer of this damnable plane, 
called the IngressAnrha looks about nervously before continuing. ''Chant is they re 
native to Agathion . though most folks say that's impossible, or just pretty sodding 
unlikely. Anyway, the Ingress seem to know the dark of the whole layer - what s 
there, and where it all lies." 

Her tail Hitters about as she checks her surroundings again. "The trick is. the 
Ingress don't talk. In many ways, they're mindless. You've got to know just who or 
what you're looking for and tell them. They'll get you there. Somehow, they make 
you seep from the third layer to the fourth, right through the stone and into the 
isolated bubble you want." 

Antha pauses for a moment and stares at the PCs, growing irate and short-tem 
pered as the memories of her own adventures come rushing back to her. If the cutters 
ask for more explicit directions (and if they're smart, they will), she says: 

"You'll find the Ingress in Phlegethon. in a cavern near a place called 
Caderis - that's easy to get to from the Madhouse. Folks there'll know the 
tray. The cavern s not too close to Windglum, though I've heard say that it s 
near something called the Unscelie Court. " 7he bariaur sneers and adds quickly, 
"If you come upon a tanar'ri by the name of luthaccab, you'll know you've gone 
too far." 

Antha doesn't have much more information of value to the PCs - at least, none 
that she's willing to share. But she does offer one last comment: 

"It all sounds prerty easy, doesn't it?" Her words are sharp with bitterness 
and sarcasm. "Well, know this, berks: Whatever it is, wherever you're going - 
and don't get me wrong. I couldn't care less about what you're doing - get 
ting there's not the hard part. The whole plane is cursed. 

"You won't succeed." 

As the PCs speak with Antha, Pirreg bursts in on 
their meeting (wherever it is), blind with rage. Thinking 
that Antha's turned stag on him, he attacks the whole 
group. Unfortunately, Pirreg's beyond reason, finally 
barmy from the howling winds and the horrible events 
he's experienced over the last few months. If the heroes' 
meeting with Antha takes place in the beast kennel under 
the theater, Pirreg doesn't hesitate to let loose some of the 
creatures (such as a pair of owl- 
bears) to cause destruction 
and chaos. The commotion 
brings members of the Cyno 
sure - guards, performers, and 
workers - within six rounds. 

Once the PCs get all the 
chant they need from Antha 
and defeat (or escape from) 
barmy Pirreg, they most likely 
give the Cynosure the laugh. 




























? GC + + ING IN DCCP ? 

If they haven't already done so, the characters should make 
plans for what to do once they actually get their hands on the 
Wand of Orcus. Just as important, they should devise a 
method for leaving the layer of Agathion (since they'll use the 
Ingress to get there). 

Antha suggested that the PCs visit the Madhouse. If the 
cutters ask around in the Bleaker-run citadel, the Dungeon 
Master should allow them to obtain a one-use magical item 
with which they can escape Agathion - a scroll inscribed 
with plane shift or teleport without error , a cubic gate with 
only one charge, or the like. Whatever they find, it should re 
quire a lot of jink (from 5,000 to 10,000 gp) or perhaps a trade 
for a worthwhile item they already have. Sure, the PCs must 
pay the music for getting something so valuable, but they 
should be able to find it as a reward for thinking ahead and 
realizing that they'll need it. 

HIKING A GUIDE 

To reach the third layer of Pandemonium, the PCs must follow 
a path through the winding passages of the plane. By walking 
through the tunnels, it's possible to travel from Pandesmos to 
Phlegethon, but the cutters'd be smart to find a guide, direc 
tions, or at least a map. 

In the Madhouse, a Bleaker by the name of Scould (Pl/cJ 
human/F5/Bleak Cabal/N) makes his daily jink by guiding 
sods through the horrors of the Howling Plane. He knows the 
right paths and portals that let travelers pass from layer to 
layer. Scould's old, wrinkled, and withered, but he's still 
healthy enough to hold his own in a fight or on an arduous 
journey. When guiding folks, Scould carries a staff with a 
lantern attached to the end. The lantern has a continual light 
spell cast within it, but a body can't tell that by looking. 
What's more, Scould knows all the tricks to avoiding the 
screaming winds as much as possible. 

Unfortunately, though, he's still been touched by the 
madness of the plane. As a result, he hates men. Though he's 
male himself, the berk trusts only women - and he trusts 
them completely. He won't guide an all-male group, fearing 
that they'd take him out of the Madhouse and bob him. If the 
PCs don't have any females among their number, they'll have 
to figure out another way to win Scould's help. 

PANDCmSNIUlTI'S T(c)LL 

The trip down through the first three layers of Pandemonium 
takes six to seven days. During this journey, the group's trou 
bles number three (according to the multiversal rule): blind 
ness, deafness, and madness. 

Scould's lantern alleviates the blindness, but its light un 
fortunately draws predators like a magnet. The guide can also 
help with the second problem; he's willing to sell the PCs spe 
cial earplugs for 1 gp per pair. The plugs're made of Carcerian 
vard gum, and they effectively drown out the plane's wind 


even when it's at its strongest and noisiest. Unfortunately, a 
body wearing the earplugs can't hear anything - including 
his companions' voices. Still, temporary deafness is better 
than the permanent kind. 

Finally, though the earplugs help reduce the madness 
brought by the constant wind, they don't stave it off entirely. 
Dungeon Masters with access to the Planes of Chaos boxed set 
(2603) may wish to use the madness rules presented in that 
product. Otherwise, the DM should require the PCs to make 
occasional saving throws versus paralyzation, with failure in 
dicating an eruption of a short bout of depression, hysteria, 
paranoia, or some similar ailment. Keep in mind, though, that 
the madness should be disheartening, not debilitating. 

Blindness, deafness, and madness may indeed trouble the 
PCs, but the creatures of Pandemonium pose a more direct 
threat to the party. Gangs of bloodthirsty, barmy gnolls or 
bugbears (escapees from the realms of their deities); wild 
howlers; roaming tanar'ri, yugoloths, or slaadi (all usually on 
their way somewhere else); and any number of prime-mater 
ial monsters have wandered to or been banished to the Howl 
ing Plane. Virtually everyone and everything a planewalker 
runs across is nasty, and most of 'em are insane to boot. 

Fortunately, Scould knows the ways around hazards of the 
physical terrain like crumbling cave-ins, dangerous crossings 
of foul rivers, and areas where light (and sometimes even 
magic) doesn't work. But the PCs should be ready for anything. 
Pandemonium is as inhospitable as any of the Lower Planes. 

? RIVALS ? 

Scould takes the cutters as far as Caderis, a ruined fortress 
within a cavern that now serves as a waymeet for travelers and 
others on the plane. The place is run by a tiefling named 
Bosetti Col Turmac (PI 18 tiefling/F 10,T 11 /Dispossessed/CE), a 
foul-mouthed and foul-minded berk who charges a great deal 
for wretched food, disgusting bub, and uncomfortable lodging. 

As a body can well imagine, not many folks visit Caderis. 
Fact is, the PC group is nearly alone in the fortress - except 
for another group of bashers also looking for the Ingress. 
They sit around one of the few standing tables within what 
was once the great hall of Caderis Castle, and they're a vile 
and strange bunch, even by Bosetti's standards. 

The room is Jim and smells of waste, rot, and cheap huh . 
A blue-skinned man with white Iwir and dark eyes sits behind 
what might pass for a bar. He silently watches you come in. 
Seated around a large , round table - amidst the broken re 
mains of a few other tables and chairs - is an odd-looking 
group of berks. A human with long black hair and a long 
black beard quietly sips from a broken mug . Next to him sits a 
basher who must be 9 feet tall, with mottled green skin and 
wild, green hair. On the other side of the table, a long, plump, 
wormlike creature downs a cup of swill with one of its four 
arms. Around the creature stand three dirty . disheveled, four 
armed humanoids, each leaning on a thick wooden spear. 


110 ? 


Cardule, the human leader of the group, pays little heed 
to the PCs as they arrive. Gak, his troll minder, doesn't even 
glance at them. Baaravda, the wormlike creature, is more ner 
vous and looks long and hard at the heroes, sizing up their 
potential threat. (Baaravda is a member of a race that calls it 
self the ormyrr; chant says they come from Arcadia, though 
Acheron seems more likely. For details, refer to the Monstrous 
Compendium(r) Annual Volume One [2145].) His three reave 
hireswords do nothing until they're told - Baaravda pays 
them good jink to keep still and hold their tongues. Overall, 
it's an eerily silent moment. 

Though there's no way for the PCs to know this, the 
most addle-coved, leatherheaded thing they could possibly 
do in here is mention the Ingress. See, Cardule, Baaravda, 
and their hirelings also seek the mysterious creatures, for 
they're on their own hunt for something in Agathion (the 
Dungeon Master can decide what that is). If the berks dis 
cover that the PCs are looking for the Ingress, they'll try to 
ambush the heroes and put them in the dead-book. Cardule 
and his bunch're all a little barmy, accustomed to more law 
ful (and certainly quieter) environments, and they're particu 
larly paranoid. 


Thing is, Bosetti the proprietor knows where the Ingress 
is, and he gives the PCs directions if they ask about it and slip 
him at least 10 gp. Then he adds, "Another gentleman was in 
here just yesterday asking about the same thing. . . At that 
point, Cardule yells, "All right, that's it! Too many people 
know about this. You must all die!'' With that, his group leaps 
up from their table and attacks the characters. 

Even if the PCs keep mum about the Ingress, they might 
still be in trouble. Baaravda convinces Cardule to use an ESP 
spell to try to learn the cutters' plans. The ormyrr's worried 
that the characters are rivals (and he's right, in a way). 
'Course, there's no reason both groups can't find and use the 
Ingress, but that's not the way these bashers think. 

? THE INGRESS ? 

Assuming that the PCs survive Caderis, it takes them about an 
hour to walk to the cavern where the Ingress dwells. But that's 
only if Bosetti provided them with exact directions. If all the 
sods know is what the bariaur Antha told them, it takes six 
hours to find the right cave. 











The twisting passages of Phlegethon are worse - rougher, 
narrower, less defined - than those you're traversed in the 
layers above. The winds are stronger here, as trell. and they 
always seem to blow against you. 

Finally, in a side cave off a particularly windy passage, 
you spot something that might indicate you've arrived. A 
great beast, bloated and grotesque, rests its bulk here. The 
thing is so fat that you wonder if it could move at all. Pinkish 
gray skin covers the creature, with no sign of hair. A single 
obese, practically atrophied limb is visible, the others perhaps 
hidden under the voluminous layers of the beast's folded flesh. 
A tiny head looks your way, and the creature seems to beckon 
you into the cave. 

This fat, bloblike being is the Ingress Mother. If the PCs 
enter the cavern and approach her, she uses her visible "arm" 
to lift up great folds of her hanging flesh, and from under 
neath squirm out dozens of tiny humanoids. These creatures 
are the Ingress. As Antha said, they don't speak, but they do 
scamper right up to the characters. Each is only 3 to 4 feet 
tall, spindly thin, and hairless, with the same skin color and 
wide eyes as the Mother. The Ingress all make hand motions 
toward their mouths and begin grabbing at the PCs' packs or 
anywhere else the characters might have food. 

? Show the players Illo L (on page 174). 

The Ingress continue to take the party's food until satis 
fied that the cutters have surrendered everything they carry 
that is even passably edible. Once the Ingress have the food, 
they carry every crumb to the Ingress Mother and feed it all to 
her - a truly repulsive sight. 

Afterward, the Ingress turn and look at the PCs expectantly. 
If the characters tell the creatures where they want to go (and 
they must be specific - just saying "Agathion" isn't enough), the 
tiny Ingress swarm around them and even climb on top of them 
until the sods can see nothing else. The heroes are shoved, 
pushed, and maneuvered through the mass of flesh until they 
can't be sure if they're surrounded by the Ingress or somehow 
caught in the folds of the Mother's sticky, putrid flesh. 

Slowly, the sensation of skin fades, and the PCs feel as 
though they've turned to liquid and are seeping through miles 
and miles of rock at a rapid rate. The strange journey comes 
to an end when they feel as though they splash onto a hard 
surface and their bodies reform. During this weird experience, 
the cutters see nothing, so there's no way to prove whether 
their disturbing sensations are accurate or not. 

? AGA + HI0N ? 

Once the Ingress send the PCs to the deepest bowels of Pande 
monium, they find themselves in a small cave with three 
tubelike passages extending away from them. 'Course, they 
see this only if they've brought some light - Agathion's just 
as dark as the rest of the plane. Unlike all the places the cut 


ters have traveled through for the last week or so (at least), 
there's no wind. Everything is still - so still, in fact, that the 
poor wind-ravaged sods probably find it quite unnerving. 

Refer to the map on page 113. The PCs arrive at the spot 
marked "A." The floor of this and every cave in the complex is 
littered with the bones and skulls of humans and humanoids. 
Note that the network of caverns is just one of many in 
Agathion, but even if the characters manage to pass through 
the rock walls, they won't reach any of the others. They're just 
too far away. 

The Wand of Orcus lies in the Reliquary, the central cav 
ern of the complex, protected by invisible barriers. Interest 
ingly, the wand itself created the maze of caverns that 
stretches outward from the bubble in which it lies. Though 
weakened since its master died, the wand is still intelligent 
and commands subtle but extraordinary power. Ever so 
slowly, it's eating away at the surrounding rock, hoping to 
breach into another cavern and expose a way out so that 
someone might come and get it. 

If, at any point, a PC carrying the circlet taken from the 
Temple of the Knell in Tcian Sumere comes within 80 yards of 
the wand, the cutter feels a strange sensation coming from the 
golden band. He becomes aware of the nearness of the wand, 
though he doesn't know its exact location. 

AN UNfSXPEC + fSD ENCmY 

The half-ogre Quah-Namog is a priest of Orcus - perhaps the 
only mortal priest of Orcus left. For untold years, he's suffered 
without his spells, using various potions and other magic to 
prolong his life, waiting for his patron to return. Finally, it 
happened: Quah-Namog prayed to his power for spells, and 
the energy rushed in. 

Determined to stay in spiritual contact with his master, he 
focused all his concentration on the evil lord. After months of 
unholy meditation, the prime-material berk suddenly felt an 
urge to come to Pandemonium. Using an astral spell , he pro 
jected himself to the top layer of the Howling Plane and then 
made his way to Agathion. Quah-Namog is the basher that 
Bosetti mentioned - the other traveler who asked about the 
Ingress. He arrived just one day ahead of the PCs. 

When the heroes show up, the half-ogre hides in the 
shadows at the spot marked "Q" and observes them for a few 
minutes. Might they also serve Tenebrous (the name he now 
knows his master uses)? If possible, Quah-Namog tries to grab 
just one of the PCs - perhaps the sod bringing up the rear - 
and question him regarding his allegiances and intentions. 
The priest does whatever he can to stop the enemies of Tene 
brous, but he's canny enough to know that direct confronta 
tion'll probably destroy his astral form. He strikes instead 
from the shadows, with hit-and-run (or cast-and-run) tactics. 
Fortunately for him, there are numerous caves and passages 
in which to run around and hide. 

Quah-Namog knows that Tenebrous will die again if he 
doesn't recover his wand soon. It's all on the line here and 
now, and the priest has come to Agathion to make sure his 


? 112 ? 


patron wins. The Dungeon Master could even have Quah- 
Namog let this chant slip while confronting the heroes - it's 
important that they know how much Tenebrous's success de 
pends on regaining the wand. 

Nil The DM should remember that Quah-Namog isn't 
really in Agathion at all. His true body lies protected on the 
Prime Material Plane, and he's using magic to project his as 
tral form into the caverns. 'Course, the PCs won't know that. 
They can't detect the priest's silver cord, though they might 
get suspicious when they realize that he carries no nonmagi- 
cal items (those objects can't be astrally projected). If the 
bashers slay Quah-Namog's astral form, the priest makes a 
successful system shock roll, returns to his physical body, and 
restores himself to full health in time to confront the PCs 
again in the next chapter. 

CXPCC+CD CNEmiES 

No matter what the PCs do in the course of the adventure. 
Tenebrous eventually learns the location of his wand, collat 
ing chant gleaned from various gods (now dead), the Great 
Modron March, the vampire Kestod, and perhaps even the 
drow Erehe. He then sends his visages ahead to scout out the 
area, fully intending on coming to Agathion himself to re 
cover what once was his. His long quest at last nearly fin 


ished, Tenebrous plans to kick off a reign of terror and ven 
geance. 

About 10 minutes after the PCs arrive in Agathion, two 
visages appear in the cave complex at the site marked A. 
They don't need to use the Ingress; Tenebrous sends them 
under his own power. The Dungeon Master should try to 
gauge the time the heroes spend here so he knows approxi 
mately when the undead fiends appear. Due to the actions of 
Quah-Namog, the confusion of the maze of caves, and the 
difficulty of getting into the Reliquary, it's unlikely that the 
PCs reach the wand before the visages arrive. 

THE RELIQUARY 
? ef +H€ WAND ? 

The inner chamber of this area holds the Wand of Orcus, a 3- 
foot long iron scepter with a human skull set into one end. 
The wand sits upon a pedestal in the center of the cavern, and 
the entrances are sealed with invisible barriers similar to walls 
of force. The PCs can bring down a barrier by one of three 
methods: 

? cast a disintegrate spell on the barrier: 



? 113 ? 








The point is important 
enough to bear repeating: If the 
skull makes contact with the 
circlet at any time, both are de 
stroyed, as is any leatherhead 
who happens to be touching 
the golden band. The iron rod 
isn't affected by this, but 
without the skull, the wand be 
comes completely inert. Thus, 
the only safe way to destroy 
the Wand of Orcus is to place 
the circlet on the ground (or 
some other surface) and then 
touch the skull to it. 

Why does the golden cir 
clet have the power to ruin the 
wand? Remember, when Tene 
brous (as Orcus) created the 
object, he used the skull of 
the great warrior Anar- 
chocles to power its dread 
magic. But he confined the 
basher's spirit to the circlet. 
When brought near the 
wand, the spirit of Anar- 
chocles does all he can to free 
himself from his prison - and 
that means getting someone 
to destroy the circlet and 
what's left of his body (the 
skull). The ancient warrior 
doesn't care that the holder 
of the circlet will die, too. 
Fact is, Anarchocles wants 
to kill anyone he can - es 
pecially any sod in posses 
sion of the circlet - in an 
insane revenge for his im 
prisonment. (For more information on circlets, see the 
"Skeleton, Warrior" entry in the Monstrous Manual(tm) tome.) 


from the pedestal. Nor- > 
mally, such an act would 
be dangerous - the Wand of 
Orcus is infamous for its abil 
ity to strike dead anyone who 
touches it. However, the wand's lost some 
of its power. A detect magic spell still reveals it to be highly 
magical, but the wand has lain mostly dormant since the 
death of its creator. Tenebrous can revive the power within 
the object, but at the present time, it's safe to touch. 

That is, it's safe for most berks. But if a PC who wears (or 
simply possesses) the circlet grabs the wand, he suddenly feels 
compelled to touch the skull to the golden band. This action 
destroys the circlet, the skull, and the character - instantly. 
'Course, the sod with the circlet isn't forced to touch the 
wand; he must make a conscious choice to march over and 
pick the thing up. If he does so, the only way he can avoid in 
stant death is by concentrating on controlling the wand be 
fore touching it. In other words, the player must announce to 
the DM that his character will try to master the wand or at 
least resist its evil influence. That way, the PC can touch the 
wand without being compelled to thrust the skull and circlet 
together, though the desire to do so is still strong. 


SENDING +HE WAND AWAY 


If the PCs never took the circlet from Tcian Sumere, there is 
no method within their power to harm the Wand of Orcus. 
The best they can hope for is to keep it from Tenebrous by 
using great magic to send it (and perhaps themselves) far 
away. 

Of course, that assumes the berks have such magic. But 
even if they don't, all is not lost. See, if a character concen 
trates on the wand, he receives a vision: By sacrificing one of 
their spirits to the wand, the PCs can reactivate one of its 
major powers - the ability to plane shift itself anywhere in the 
multiverse. Thus, by willingly giving one of their own lives, 
the heroes can send the wand out of the fiend's reach. 


? get a devotee of Kia- 
ransalee to touch the 
barrier in her name; 


? inflict at least 50 
points of damage 
upon the barrier 
by smashing it 
with bones (and 
only bones; no 
other objects af 
fect it). 


If a PC with the cir 
clet sees the wand upon 
the pedestal, the sensation 
from the golden band 
grows stronger. Should he 
actually wear the circlet on 
his head and concentrate, 
the cutter must make a 
Wisdom check. If he suc 
ceeds, he suddenly sees 
things from the perspective 
of the skull atop the wand 
- and he knows the three 
different methods for de 
stroying a barrier. Breaking 
concentration breaks the 
point-of-view shift. 

Once the PCs get into 
the Reliquary, it's a simple 
matter to take the wand 


? 114 


That's enough to win the day. After all, the 
undead lord can't survive much longer without 
his wand (the power of the Last Word's eating 
him up from the inside), and he's staked every 
thing on a final quest to the Howling Plane. If Tenebrous 
doesn't find the Wand of Orcus in Agathion, he'll be written 
into the dead-book for a second time. 

? VIC + (c)RY (c)R Dif€A+ ? 



I +H0UGH+ Y0U 
BR0UGH+ +he CUBIC GA + E! 

- a PLANCWAUCCR in AGA+HI0N 
+ 0 H I s cem RADC. 

AS TCNCBR0US APPR0ACHCS 


While the heroes decide what to do about the Wand of Orcus, 
Tenebrous is on his way to Agathion to reclaim his prize. 
Hopefully, the PCs manage to destroy or banish the wand, or 
at least figure out a way to leave the caverns. Otherwise, 
they're in a lot of trouble. 

If + HE WAND 
IS DC S + R(c) Y € D (c)R L(c)S + 

Seconds after destroying the skull (or sending the wand to a 
far-off plane), each character suddenly sees the following 
image in his mind's eye: 

A shadowy form races through strange landscapes with 
frantic speed. Suddenly, it stops . and the toothy mouth of its 
gray , wraith I ike face opens wide and lets out a terrible , soul- 
wrenching scream. The ethereal Jig are begins to grow in si/e 
and substance, quickly taking on the appearance of stone. In 
moments, it completely petrifies into the shape of a bloated . 
ram-lieaded humanoid contorted in horror and pain. Then it 
slowly Jades away. 

Tenebrous is dead - again. Without the power of the 
wand, he's unable to stabilize his own essence, and the fury of 
the Last Word consumes him. The former Abyssal lord falls to 
the Astral, becoming one more giant chunk of debris floating 
through the Silver Void. 

If PCs are still trapped in Agathion, a deity of good might 
secretly reward them for their service to the multiverse by 
transporting them to the Outlands, leaving them just outside 
the gate-town of Bedlam. 'Course, this bit of divine aid is up 
to the Dungeon Master's discretion; it's not the best solution 
to the problem of a trapped party. The poor sods could simply 
remain stuck forever in the caverns. It'd be their own tough 
luck for failing to think ahead and bring along a method of 
escape. (Another option: The Ingress might one day send an 
other bunch of travelers into the same area - cutters smart 
enough to bring a means of exiting the layer.) 

If TCNCBR0US ARRIVES 

If the PCs haven't destroyed or banished the wand by the time 
Tenebrous arrives, they're as good as lost. They have no 
chance of winning at combat, trickery, or negotiation. Tene 
brous wants them dead, and while he might not be the power 


he once was, he still has enough strength to annihilate them 
instantly and utterly. The Last Word can slay gods, so it's cer 
tainly enough to rip apart a handful of puny mortals. 

In this situation, the PCs have just one hope of survival: 
If they took the Orcusword from Tcian Sumere, they can break 
it now, causing Tenebrous enough pain to delay him for ld3 
hours. That might give the heroes enough time to escape (and 
take the wand with them), destroy the skull, or magically send 
the foul thing far away. 

Otherwise, Tenebrous is victorious. He destroys the char 
acters, reclaims his wand, and regains his former position of 
power, free to bring untold evil and chaos to the multiverse. 
Kiaransalee is doomed, and for a time it seems that no other 
deity dares to oppose Tenebrous for fear of falling to the Last 
Word. This should shake up a Planescape campaign - or in 
deed, any ADftD campaign that involves the planes - consid 
erably. 

Eventually, a gathering of greater gods will learn the his 
tory and nature of the Last Word and devise a means to op 
pose or nullify its power. Stripped of his stolen magic, Tene 
brous will no longer have complete mastery over the multi 
verse. Sure, the berk'll still be a threat, but he'll no longer be 
invincible. 

For more information on the effects of Tenebrous s re 
turn, refer to the "Aftermath" section at the end of the next 
chapter. 

THC fA + C 
? (c)f= +H£ WAND ? 

Assuming that Tenebrous didn't regain the Wand of Orcus, 
the PCs have either destroyed the skull at the end of the rod 
or somehow kept the object out of the undead power's reach. 
If the wand is still in the heroes' possession, they need to de 
termine whether to keep it, entrust it to a mighty force for 
good, or bury it where no one will ever find it again (by 
dropping it into the River Styx, sending it to the plane of 
Vacuum, and so on). 

Whatever happens, the Dungeon Master should pay par 
ticular attention to the whereabouts of the wand. In the next 
and final chapter of "Out of the Darkness," the priest Quah- 
Namog returns, intent on capturing the wand and using it to 
awaken Tenebrous from his Astral slumber - again. 

The multiverse might yet have reason to shudder. 


? 115 ? 



C Haiti & IXz 
THf DEAD 

THf 



Defeated? Hardly. 

The half-ogre priest rubbed his hands together 
compulsively. There was something un 
nerving about searching the Astral Plane for the rocky corpse of his 
own patron god . Hut he kept his mind on the 
task. Those intolerable fools he encountered in 
Agathion would be the first to feel the wrath of 
the master once he was finished. And if Tene 
brous didn't want to punish them, (Juah- 
Namog would do it himself. 

After all. he'd already come so Jar and done so 
much. Ash Vodiran had been extremely difficult to 
find, and that confusing city called Sigil didn't make 
things any easier. Vodiran came so highly recommended, 
though, that Quah-Namog knew he'd prove well 
worth the effort and expense. 

And indeed he did. 
The master thief s eyes 
sparkled at the ver\' idea 
of stealing the arti fact. In 
fact, Vodiran actually seemed 
disappointed that it had been so 
easy for him to obtain ("scrag," he'd said). 
Yes, the job had cost Quah-Namog virtually all the gold he could steal or extort 
on his home world, but now he hud it. lie had the Wand oJ Orcus . 

Unfathomable exhilarating, thought the priest - to hold the master's great 
est symbol in his own hands. Nothing could stop him now. Nothing could defeat 
him. Tenebrous would lire again. 



? THf RIDf RfSUmfS ? 

This chapter takes place quite some time after the player characters deal with the 
Wand of Orcus in the caves of Agathion. Assuming that they survive, they can 
return to Sigil (or wherever they call home) and rest for as long as they wish. 

During this period, they're free to take part in other adventures. If the 
Dungeon Master's using "Into the Light," this'd be an especially good 
time to run Part Three of that scenario. 

Meanwhile, the priest Quah-Namog recovers from his 
encounter with the PCs in Agathion. He sets off to find the 
Wand of Orcus (this time in his true physical form), hoping to 
restore his master to life once again. Ar the end of the previ 
ous chapter, the heroes either kept the wand, hid it, or gave it 
No matter where it ends up, Quah-Namog hires the top-shelf 
^sh Vodiran to steal it for him. Vodiran can easily overcome any 
barriers, guardians, or magical wards put in place to protect the 
id the PCs eventually learn that it's gone missing from wherever 
it. 

Nun Even if the PCs used the circlet to destroy the wand's skull, the iron 
rod remained, and that's what Quah-Namog seeks. Totally destroying the Wand 
of Orcus is not an option. Oh, it might be possible for a mortal to annihilate such 
a mighty artifact - a creation of a god - but the PCs have no idea how to do it, 
and neither does anyone else they encounter. 


A+ LEAS+ 

+ HA+ WH(c)LE 

(c)RCUS BUSINESS is 
BEHIND US N (c) W. 

- a PLANtWALKER 

WH(c) SHeuLD away ' 

t h i p f A 

K. N (c) W B € + + £ R , ocks 

wand, ar 
they left 


? 116 ? 





? THi SILVER V(c)ID ? 

If ihe PCs can somehow track the wand, they learn that it's now on 
the Astral Plane. Should they decide to chase after it, they must Find 
their own way there. Otherwise, the Dungeon Master must use some 
other method to get the heroes to journey to the Silver Void. 


Here's one method: A Sigil merchant named Ryshane Dumuore 
(PI/ 9 human/O-level/Society of Sensation/NG) offers the bashers a job 
to deliver and safeguard a large payment of gold to a weaponsmith 
named Zess, a rogue modron who lives and works on the Astral Plane. The 
jink's in the form of 100 gems (each worth 1,000 gp), which are stored in a 
padded steel box that's locked, trapped, and magically sealed. The task 
should take only a few days, and Dumuore pays each character 200 
gp for his trouble. 

'Course, the DM can also devise another reason for 
visiting the Astral, something more appropriate to the 
specific group of planewalkers and what they re 
doing at the time. The PCs might be sent on a 
mission for one of their factions, pass through the 
Silver Void on their way somewhere else, and so 
on. The method doesn't really matter. As long as the 
heroes get to the Astral, this final chapter can truly 
begin. 

As its nickname implies, the Astral Plane is an 
endless, silvery void. A few strange lights float through 
the infinite distance, and now and again a conduit 
winds its way through the calm, quiet serenity. While on 
the Astral, folks maneuver by the power of thought alone 
- the smarter the berk, the faster he moves. Specific details 
on travel, combat, and other topics are found in the 
Planescape(r) sourcebook A Guide to the Astral Plane (2625). 
However, the real focus of this chapter is the gigantic corpse of 
Tenebrous, which operates under its own rules. Thus, A Guide to 
the Astral Plane is handy, but it's not required for this adventure. 

THC GUARDIAN (c)f +H€ DEAD G(c)DS 

Shortly after the PCs arrive on the Astral, they see an awe-inspiring sight: 

With an abrupt suddenness, almost as though he were peeling hath tin 
folds of Astral space, a tall, muscular man appears ahead oj you. His long, 
angular face is somewhat canine - perhaps that of a jackal. His black Imir is 
long and wild, his eyes deep abysses that lake but nerer give. And though Ins 
luminous black skin reflects the strange lights of the Astral, there is a cold 
ness about him reminiscent of cemeteries, tombs, and funeral shrouds. 

The imposing man moves quickly hut gracefully toward you. When lu 
gets close, lie Jluidly raises one arm and points off to your right. With the 
finality of the grave, he says, "It is not yet over .' 


I 












This is the being known as the Guardian of the Dead Gods 
- he who was once Anubis of the Egyptian pantheon, guardian 
of the dead. He watches over the fallen powers who float 
through the Astral, fending off any who might disturb his 
charges. But the Guardian - for reasons of his own - does noi 
always act. Sometimes he allows mortals to interfere with the 
gods' long sleep. None can truly fathom his actions or motives. 

Currently, the Guardian has chosen to alert the player 
characters that something big is happening. He points directly 
toward the petrified body of Tenebrous (though it's not in 
sight) and refers to Quah-Namog's plan to resurrect the for 
mer Abyssal lord. 

If the PCs never went to Pelion and explored the Last 
Spire (in Chapter VII), the Dungeon Master can use the 
Guardian as a final opportunity to incorporate that chapter 
into the adventure. After the Guardian delivers his warning, 
the DM can have him also give the heroes the following hint 
about Pelion: 

"He learned, rather than earned, his might. The dusty 
realm of sister-friend-rival Nephythys holds the key. He left 
his mark there in the short time that he did not rest here. 
Learn his secrets there, in the dust. " 

Many a well-lanned basher knows (or can learn) that the 
realm of Nephythys lies in the desert of Pelion. This should be 
enough to prod the PCs to pay a call to the dusty layer. 

? C0RPUS DCi ? 

If the PCs proceed in the direction indicated by the Guardian, 
they soon come upon the corpse of Tenebrous. 

At first, it seems as though you're racing toward an im 
mense island of stone suspended in the Silver Void. But as the 
island grows larger, you realize the truth. Your eye follows the 
lines and contours of the rock and suddenly makes out muscu 
lar arms, stout legs, and a horribly bloated belly. Wide horns 
spiral outward from the head of this gigantic humanoid, and 
massive draconian wings stretch out from the figure s back, 
completing the misshapen statue. The contorted "island." 
which is at least d miles long, is made entirely of dr\\ gray 
stone. 

As the characters approach, they're drawn down toward 
the corpse by the sphere of energy that surrounds Tenebrous. 
In their mind's eye, they see the hunched figure of Quah- 
Namog clutching the Wand of Orcus. (If the heroes destroyed 
the skull that topped the artifact, they notice that a new one's 
been affixed - one that still glistens with the blood of its pre 
vious owner, a poor sod killed by Quah-Namog.) The half- 
ogre priest stands atop the head of Tenebrous, holding the 
wand high and chanting loathsome, evil words that defile the 
very air by their utterance. 

Within a few moments, the PCs "land" on Tenebrous, 


finding themselves standing on what they take to be his feet. 
An uneven, rocky landscape stretches out ahead of them, sep 
arating them from Quah-Namog. Refer to the map of Tene 
brous on page 119. 

While on Tenebrous, the cutters are no longer subject to 
the laws of the Astral Plane. Instead, they're within the closest 
thing that Tenebrous has left to a realm. The body of the god 
has normal gravity, which means that, to reach Quah-Namog, 
the PCs must physically travel over the rocky surface of the 
corpse, scaling steep inclines and skirting treacherous chasms. 
They can't rely on spells like teleport or dimension door , 
which only transport them back to their starting point at the 
god's feet. 

The gravity extends only 1,000 feet above the surface of 
the corpse. If a cutter flies, levitates, or leaps higher than that 
distance, he "falls off' the body and ends up in normal Astral 
space outside of the island's gravity. To return, he must ap 
proach Tenebrous as he did the first time, in which case he's 
again drawn to the feet. 

What's more, unlike other god-islands, only the top of 
Tenebrous (which is really his front, since he's lying supine) 
has gravity. Heroes can't cross around to his back and sneak 
along underneath his body. Sods who get too close to the 
edge of the corpse fall off, though, as before, they can return 
easily to the god's feet. 

Lastly, while on Tenebrous, the characters find that time 
and space (and the spells that affect them) operate normally, 
without any of the strange alterations that can occur on the 
Astral. 

f ACC S (c)F DCA+H 

When Tenebrous died (for the second time), many of his un 
dead servants were taken with him. Now these visages are 
frozen on the Astral along with their master, trapped with the 
power and force that created them - a justice that'd make a 
Mercykiller proud. 

Great numbers of visages occupy the corpse of Tene 
brous. Their petrified forms fill out a forest of stone, cold 
faces and bodies wracked in eternal pain and miseiy. Some of 
the visages appear to be human at first (in other words, frozen 
in someone else's stolen form), but there's always something 
monstrous about them that reveals their true nature - clawed 
hands, a twisted and elongated face, or something sinister 
about the eyes. 

The fiends are dead and pose no physical threat to the 
PCs. But their proximity to Tenebrous means that their lucid 
ity-control powers still swirl about them like an aura of evil. 
Even in death, the visages're able to make the heroes wonder 
what's real and what's not. 

Thus, as the sods move through this horrid landscape, the 
Dungeon Master should really put them on edge. They begin 
to see movement out of the corners of their eyes. They hear 
faint noises like crumbling stone coming from just behind 
their footsteps. If a PC turns around, the petrified visage he 
just passed seems to be in a slightly different pose than it was 


? 118 ? 



Quah-Namog 


2000 ; 


2000,'j 


1G00) 

vl 600' 


1600' 


/s P 

' 1 bOO' 


2300* 


2000 ' 


1000 ' 


Petrified 

Visage(c) 


Arrival 


jy 1 ii 1 A 1 1 



































before. If a cutter stops to listen, he hears the sounds of some 
thing moving, though it's always behind him or just out of 
sight. 

If the bashers actually attack the frozen visages, they 
find the things easy to destroy - they seem to be made of dry 
stone that crumbles easily. However, if the PCs completely 
smash one of the visages, the creature's essence is freed from 
its entombment here and escapes into the void with a hideous, 
mocking cackle. 


skeletons that burst forth from the ground. These new foes 
can likewise be turned (destroyed), but they, too, are replaced 
the next round. 

Thus, the only way the heroes can permanently rid them 
selves of skeletons is by combat. Turning 'em won't do it. And 
to make matters worse, beginning ld 6 rounds after the first 
group of undead emerges, the marked areas issue forth an 
other batch of 3d8 skeletons every three rounds. (That should 
prevent the PCs from lingering too long on the belly.) 



Skill i \i Hr it When the PCs reach the top of the belly, 
skeletons burst forth from the rock at the places marked "S" 
on the map. A total of 3d8 skeletons emerges, a few from each 
spot. 


fRUI + S (r)f D€A+H 

Past the forest of faces, the danger to the PCs becomes more 
real and more immediate. As they proceed up Tenebrous's 
prodigious belly (a 2 , 000 -foot ascent), skills involving climb 
ing or mountaineering become quite useful. Though the rough 
stomach has ledges and cracked handholds and very little of 
the ascent is completely vertical, rope and other climbing gear 
come in handy. Without such aids, the planewalkers need to 
make Dexterity checks (three for the entire trip) to keep from 
falling while scaling the uneven ground. A failed check indi 
cates a tumble of Id3xl0 feet, with the poor sod suffering ld 6 
points of damage per 10 feet fallen. 

To make matters worse, as the PCs reach the summit of 
the stomach, Tenebrous's body begins to spew forth the 
essence of his nature: undead and unlife. 


P Even here on the Astral, which has no link to 

the Negative Energy Plane, Tenebrous is full of negative en 
ergy. The party's trip over the belly causes the energy to burst 
forth like fluid from underground springs in the locations 
marked "P" on the map. The liquid congeals into pools and 
runs down the god's sides like tiny streams, draining the life 
force from any berk who touches it (Id 12 points of damage) 
or merely gets within 3 feet (ld4 points of damage). 

Ten rounds after the energy begins pouring out of Tene 
brous. the entire corpse quickly grows cold. Anyone standing 
anywhere on the dead god suffers 1 point of damage immedi 
ately and another point every 10 rounds thereafter. 
(Quah-Namog is immune to this effect.) 


Immediately ahead of you, cracks begin to form in the 
ground, accompanied by a rocky crumbling and crunching 
noise. With a rumble and a burst of befouled air, clawed . 
skeletal hands burst forth from the punctured wound of the 
dead god's flesh. Stony, earth-covered undead . animated with 
foul necromantic energies, rise from the ground and more 
toward you. their malicious intent quite obvious. 

Once unleashed, the skeletons look for living flesh 
to rend and destroy. Though skeletons aren't usually 
dangerous foes to top-shelf cutters like the PCs, the sheer 
number of these undead makes them a serious 
threat. However, turning attempts work 
better than they normally do: No 
matter what the level of the priest & 
or paladin, a successful turn 
ing means that 2d6 of the 
skeletons crumble to dust. 

But there's a catch. All 
undead thus turned are 
replaced at the be 
ginning of the next 
round by a same 
number of new 


THE £ V£ RC HANGING f I £ N D 

At some point during all this madness, the planewalkers en 
counter a strange being that represents Tenebrous throughout 
the various stages of his existence. 

At first, the being appears to be a fat, grotesque human - 
probably a foul wizard or a wicked priest, judging by the evil 
affectations and horrid symbols on his clothing. But the fig 
ure shrinks as if melting, becoming a wormlike larvae. It then 
bloats and takes the shape of a manes, then a bar-lgura. Next, 
the being mutates further, changing to become a floating 
chasme, and then a vrock. The vrock screeches and becomes a 
hezrou, which immolates and transforms into a huge, fiery 
balor. The loathsome balor bloats, its head growing ramlike, 
adopting the traditional form of Orcus. This shape in turn 
takes on a rocky countenance (signifying his first death), 
which then becomes the shadowy Tenebrous. Finally, the 
whole transformation starts over again, as the wraithlike form 
solidifies into the obese, evil human. 

What's going on? Well, before Tenebrous (then known as 
Orcus) became an Abyssal lord, he worked his way up through 
the ranks of the tanar'ri. Before that, he was a larva, and be 
fore even that, he lived as a mortal. And as he now lies in 
death, the god's memories of his past manifest themselves as 
the shapeshifting being that prowls his rocky surface. 

Each transformation takes a round. The being can't be 
harmed, nor can it inflict harm - fact is, it can't physically af 
fect anything. However, it can speak with the PCs if they ap 
proach it. The manifestation's lesser forms have scant knowl 
edge and respond simply to questions; as the shapes grow 
more advanced, they gain more and more knowledge. 'Course, 
the manifestation won't reveal much about itself (and won't 
do anything foolish, like give its name), but it may offer im 
portant information - as long as the cutters ask canny ques 
tions and direct them to the right shapes. 

But it's not as if the creature's dying to rattle its bone- 
box. The larvae and the manes can't converse in any way, and 
most of the other shapes aren't willing to help the bashers 
without a good reason. Still, the PCs might be able to con 
vince the forms to brag, boast, and otherwise glorify them 
selves. This being is, after all, the manifestation of Tene 
brous's past - or, rather, his memories of the past - so it's 
consumed with his view and his version of things. 

Eventually, the everchanging creature grows tired of the 
PCs and moves on, wandering the surface of the dead god. 

CLimBING + H £ HEAD 

Quah-Namog believes that he can bring Tenebrous back from 
the dead. It happened before; it can happen again. Using the 
Wand of Orcus as a focus, the priest begins chanting, making 
up a ritual as he goes along. (Not surprisingly, he couldn't find 
an established method of bringing a god back to life.) Quah- 
Namog plans to culminate his improvisational ceremony by 
casting a resurrection spell that he has on a scroll. 

The priest is encouraged by the fact that his spellcasting 


powers returned when he arrived on his patron deity's corpse. 
He doesn't know if it's due to a strange quirk, if it's because 
Tenebrous died so recently, or if it means that the god's not as 
dead as he appears. And Quah-Namog realizes that he won't 
learn the dark of it until he does all he can to restore his master. 

After the PCs cross over the corpse's stomach and chest, 
read the following: 

Ahead and above, you see irhat must be the loathsome 
head and face of the dead god - and you hear a strange mum 
bling sound coming from that direction. The voice grows 
louder , borne on a light Astral breeze, until you determine it to 
be a deep-throated clwnt - foul words you don't understand. 
The chanter is most certainly somewhere on the horned head 
of the corpse . 

No matter how the PCs approach the head, the ascent is 
difficult. Scaling the god's "jowls" amounts to a vertical climb 
of approximately 1,600 feet. Climbing skill or mountaineering 
proficiency is required. Sods without such abilities must either 
get help from able climbers or find another way up (such as 
magical flight). 

Once they've reached the top, the PCs face the 800-foot- 
deep pit that is the immense, cavelike mouth of Tenebrous. 
This horrible place is a breeding ground for bats and varran- 
goin - two kinds of creatures not normally native to the As 
tral Plane. They fly up in dark clouds, screeching eerily, and 
attack anyone coming near the mouth. 

Each character is attacked by one lesser varrangoin (Type 
II) and approximately 50 normal bats under its control. All 
varrangoin immediately breathe clouds of fire as they swoop 
in to attack the heroes, but they refrain from doing so again 
for fear of hurting the normal bats that begin to swarm 
around the party. Because of the bats, the PCs find it difficult 
to see, fight, or do much of anything besides feel the raking 
talons of the varrangoin. 

The sides of the mouth-pit are riddled with caves and 
passages that provide roosts for far more varrangoin and bats 
- and possibly worse. 

? THC RI + UAL (c)F REVIVAL ? 

Quah-Namog stands and chants on the base of Tenebrous's 
brow, right between his master's eyes. Around him lie the sac 
rifices he's made to complete his enchantment and power the 
ritual. The priest has destroyed a book of exalted deeds , a mace 
of disruption, a holy sword , a talisman of pure good, and a 
white robe of the archmagi. He's also slain three poor elves who 
were his enemies back on his prime-material home world. 

Before you, on a rise between two wide, shallow pits . 
stands the evil priest you encountered in Aguthion. rhis 
twisted soul's horrid, necromantic finery consists oj bones and 
skulls strung across his bare chest, blood-red breeches color 
ing his legs, and a black cloak puttering in an Astral breeze. 


? 121 ? 


His head is adorned with the skull of a horned horse - most 
likely o unicorn. The priest holds aloft the Wand of Orcus in 
one hand and an unrolled scroll in the other. 

Around him. pages ripped from a golden hook are tossed 
about in the light wind. Broken hits of unknown items and 
weapons lie at his feet. But most horrible of all. three dead 
humanoid figures sprawl before the chanting priest, eviscer 
ated. They appear to be elves. 

? Show the players lllo N (on page 176). 

If Quah-Namog sees the PCs approach, he quickens the 
pace of the ritual by skipping right to the final portion - the 
use of the resurrection scroll. But the spell takes 10 rounds to 
cast, and the PCs likely reach the priest in a round or two. 
Under normal circumstances, Quah-Namog wouldn't have 
much chance of success. 

But the current circumstances are far from normal. Re 
member, the half-ogre's standing on the body of the being 
that he's trying to resurrect - not to mention the fact that the 
being in question was a powerful, evil deity. Somehow, on 
some level, Tenebrous gets involved. 

TCNCBK0US TRIUmPHAN + 

Before the PCs can do anything to disrupt the reading of the 
resurrection scroll, they find themselves seemingly trans 
ported to another location. 


Suddenly, everything grou's blurry, and you have the 
well-known sensation of magical transportation, as if you 
were teleported away. After a few seconds, the world reforms 
around you. The scene is familiar - but unbelievable. 

You stand in the City of Doors, yet somehow you realize 
that you've also been catapulted into the future. The burg you 
once knew so well has become a charnel house. Bodies lay 
strewn about streets red with blood. And in the middle of the 
carnage is a sight that makes your mind reel. 

A huge, bloated, fiendish figure - the very god whose 
body you walked upon in the who-knows-how-distant past - 
stands amid a number of slain foes. You see among these 
corpses great beings whose images once decorated temple 
halls: Zeus. Thor. Paladine, Mystra, and more. Most incredi 
ble of all. the ram-headed fiend holds above his head the last 
of his enemies, her body broken and sagging: 

The Lady of Pain. 

Sigil is dead. The multiverse belongs to Tenebrous. 

? Show the players lllo 0 (on page 176). 

Naturally, this scene isn't real. The PCs are still on the 
Astral, still on Tenebrous's body. But some spark that yet 
flares within the rocky corpse has reached outward and, on a 
subconscious level, altered the perceptions of the heroes 
(much as the visages did in the past). 'Course, many canny 
bloods will realize that this horrid scene can't be real, and the 
Rule of Threes dictates why. First of all, a body can enter Sigil 




only through a portal - no other means of magical trans 
portation works. Second, gods can't get into the Cage, so Zeus 
and the others couldn't possibly lie at Tenebrous's feet. And 
third, the Lady can't be beaten in a simple brawl. 

Nonetheless, the sight is disturbing. Cutters that try to re 
sist the perception must make a saving throw versus spell. 
Even if they're successful, they don't break through the mind- 
peel - it is generated by a power, after all - but they do per 
ceive a bit of the true reality. They can hear Quah-Namog 
casting the resurrection spell, and a successful spellcraft pro 
ficiency check lets them realize that the scroll will take 10 
rounds to read. 

All they have to do is disrupt the casting of the spell. But 
it ain't as easy as all that. As the heroes perceive their current 
surroundings, the priest's hiding in a nearby building while 
he reads the scroll. And they've got to find him before they 
can stop him. A successful Intelligence check is required to 
follow the sound of Quah-Namog's voice, and the degree of 
success determines how long it takes to locate him. 

Here's how to figure it: Determine the margin by which the 
PC made the check. Then subtract that number from 10. The re 
sult is how many rounds it takes to find Quah-Namog's hiding 
spot. For example, if a character with an Intelligence of 13 rolls 
a check of 9 (a difference of 4), he's able to follow the voice and 
find the priest in 6 (10 minus 4) rounds. 

If several bashers make successful Intelligence checks, 
they use the best result (in other words, the least number of 
rounds) to determine how long they race around Sigil before 
finding Quah-Namog. Note that PCs who failed to see through 
the altered perception don't get to make the required Intelli 
gence checks to find the priest - they believe in the reality of 
the scene and don't hear his voice at all. 

When the heroes find the building that Quah-Namog's 
hiding in, though, their troubles really begin. Tenebrous throws 
down the Lady's broken body and goes after the party. Because 
the berk isn't real - and because the true Tenebrous is the one 
creating the current scene - the PCs can't hurt "faux Tene 
brous" in any way. But each round, he can strike at and auto 
matically hit one character, inflicting 4dl0 points of damage. 
Unfortunately, these wounds are real and lasting - they won't 
disappear when the altered perception evaporates. 

With time at such a premium, the best strategy is for one 
PC to slip into the building where Quah-Namog hides, while the 
rest hold off the Abyssal lord (as best they can, anyway). Inside 
the building, the PCs spy the scene they first observed when 
they climbed up to Tenebrous's brow: Quah-Namog, sur 
rounded by sacrifices, holding the Wand of Orcus, casting a 
spell from a scroll. Any successful strike against the 
priest - or any other major disruption 
of his reading - stops the spell. 



? thc end ? 

If the heroes prevent the resurrection spell from being cast, 
the unreal vision of Sigil fades from their senses, and they 
find they're still on the Astral Plane. (Remember, they still 
have any wounds suffered in the battle.) But now they're 
floating in the middle of the Silver Void, with Quah-Namog 
and the rocky corpse of Tenebrous nowhere in sight. Bashers 
making an Intelligence check realize that they haven't moved 
- this is where the dead god was just moments ago. 

No attempt to find Tenebrous on the Astral is successful. 
What's more, the Guardian of the Dead Gods isn't around to 
answer questions to satisfy mortal curiosities. The PCs are left 
with yet another mystery. 

WHA+ REALLY HAPPENED? 

Even if the PCs don't tell anyone about their experiences, 
eventually a planewalker passing through the Astral notices 
that the corpse of Tenebrous (or Orcus, if that's the name by 
which the berk knows him) has vanished. And once he starts 
rattling his bone-box, the news spreads quickly throughout 
Sigil. Sure, the true fate of the deity's left for the graybeards 
to debate and the peery to worry about, but plenty of folks 
have their own opinions. Thus, whether the heroes brag about 
their exploits or keep silent, they eventually hear some of the 
following chant making the rounds of the Cage: 

? The last effort put forth by Tenebrous (the altered per 
ception of Sigil) was a final, desperate gamble. Since it 
didn't work. Tenebrous was completely consumed and 
is gone forever. 

? Quah-Namog had a contingency plan. Tenebrous is still 
dead, but his corpse has been hidden away while the 
priest plots to bring him back again. 

? The Wand of Orcus itself intervened. It destroyed, 
saved, or permanently changed Tenebrous. 

? The god never really died at all. Sure, his first death (as 
Orcus) was real enough, but he returned (as Tenebrous) 
imbued with negative energy. Thus, when he fell again 
to the Astral, that energy kept him wndead. Quah- 
Namog's efforts weren't enough to resurrect him fully, 
but they sufficed to restore Tenebrous to his shadowy 
near-power state. 

If + HE PCs FAILED 

If the cutters didn't see through the altered vision of Sigil 
or didn't find Quah-Namog in time, the priest completes 
his spell of resurrection. But the multiverse doesn't 
suddenly come to an end. Instead, Quah-Namog and 
the corpse of Tenebrous simply vanish (as described 
above), and the heroes're left floating on the Astral. 


? 123 ? 


Is Tenebrous truly back among the living? Who knows, 
berk - can a mortal really resurrect a god? No one knows the 
dark of it, but the chant's still the same (again, as above). The 
graybeards debate the screed, and the peery - and the canny 
- watch for the power's return. 

How will the return of Tenebrous affect a Planescape 
campaign? To answer that question, the Dungeon Master 
must decide two things. First, did the resurrection spell restore 
Tenebrous to full power or to some lesser state? Second, is the 
restored Wand of Orcus just as strong as the original, or is it 
weaker - or perhaps just a totally powerless symbol? If both 
Tenebrous and the wand have regained their full might, well, 
sooner or later all hell breaks loose on the planes (for details, 
refer to "If Tenebrous Arrives," at the end of the previous 
chapter). 


? Af+ € KfllA + H ? 

Whether or not Tenebrous returns to life, the multiverse has 
undergone a number of changes as a result of his nefarious 
plan - and will continue to deal with the reper 
cussions for some time to come. 

Here's the final list of powers slain 
by Tenebrous, along with 
aftereffects. 


? Bwimb, 

Baron of the 
Paraelemental 
Plane of Ooze. As a result, 
a minor power struggle oc 
curs on the Plane of Ooze, but 
most folks pay it little heed. 


Primus, ruler of the 
modrons. He's 
quickly replaced by a 
promoted secundus. 



HE C A rtl E 
WHA + (T1AKES 
HE W0N' + 


Maanzecorian, illithid god of secrets. Ilsensine 


now becomes the unquestioned supreme deity of the 
mind flayers. 


doubt killed many, many others of lesser importance. For 
months afterward, chant spreads of other gods and beings of 
power supposedly slain. Most rumors prove to be nothing but 
screed. Still, the Athar gain support from the widespread be 
lief that the powers're more vulnerable and less godlike than 
previously thought. 

When Kiaransalee discovers that Tenebrous was Orcus, 
she's said to be driven to the brink of barminess with para 
noia. She begins fortifying her realm against what she fears 
(for many years afterward) will be the inevitable coming at 
tack by her old foe. 

Yggdrasil heals its wounds; the visages are gone and do 
not return. The portal leading from the tree to Ranais closes, 
however, cutting the people of Crux off from not only their 
ancestral homeworld but the Cage as well. The tree-burg re 
mains a central crossroads on the World Ash, Veridis Mov still 
its leader and protector. 

Tcian Sumere disappears, though no one knows if it's 
been destroyed or simply moved. However, the portal found 
in the temple on Ranais is definitely gone - in fact, the whole 
temple vanishes along with it. 

War continues to grip the Vault of the 
Drow. With Kiaransalee's attention fo 
cused elsewhere, the tide turns against 
the House of Tormtor and its al 
lies, making a Lolth-free Vault 
and a githyanki outpost un 
likely. 

Pelion and Pandemo 
nium see little change. The 
Last Spire and the Chamber of 
Secrets become even more ob 
scure, until virtually no one in 
the multiverse re 
members they 
ever existed. The 
Cynosure contin 
ues to flourish, and the 
show goes on. ... 

f(c)R + H € 

P L AY € R CHARAC+CRS 


BACK (c)nce 
veu +HINK 
D e AGAIN? 


BERK. 


- TARSHtVA L0NGREACH 



? Tomeri, goddess of wisdom and love. Her death is felt 
most heavily on the Prime, where the bulk of her 
human worshipers dwell. 

? Camaxtli, god of fate. As with the death of Tomeri, the 
Prime suffers the most. Chant holds that Quetzalcoatl, 
head of the pantheon to which Camaxtli belonged, has 
sworn vengeance against the murderer and vowed to 
search the planes until he's found. 

Nekrotheptis Skorpios (proxy of Set) and Evreth (proxy 
of the unknown gods of Pelion) also fell, and Tenebrous no 


The heroes earn a bit of fame from having played a part in 
opposing Tenebrous, enough to net them respect, job offers, 
and perhaps even rewards from concerned parties. If they 
managed to ensure that Tenebrous stayed dead, the Dungeon 
Master should also grant each PC bonus experience points - 
exactly enough to gain one level. This XP is in addition to 
whatever the characters gained during the course of the ad 
venture. 

Fame is fleeting, however, and nowhere is this more true 
than on the planes, where there's always new chant, new he 
roes, and new tales. The planewalkers should enjoy the atten 
tion while it lasts but prepare to get on with their lives after 
ward. 


? 124 ? 












Introduction 


"Good evening. Welcome to the Ubiquitous Way 
farer, where the hub comes cheap ami cheaper still 
the . . . well, never mind. You 've probably heard that 
joke already. 

**Tonight I'd like to stop the music for a little while and tell all you good 
folks a tale. Sure as Sigil, it's a ghost story - a tale of a haunted church. Rut no 
mere unquiet mortal spirit haunts the place: instead, the church holds the 
essence of a forgotten god. I guess that makes this a god story. It's 
a tale of devotion and betrayal, of love and hate, of passion and 
death. Rut enough of my rattling bone-box. On to the stor\\ 

"Let me begin by saying ..." 



EVEN + h e G (c) D S 
A R E N ' + immUNE 

+ (c) +RAGEDY. 

- BC + + 0N G U I L. 
a P(c)£ + 


? BACKGROUND ? 

The old church had stood for longer 
than anyone 
could remem 
ber. It was less 
a measure of 
time's passing than 
of the fragility of mor 
tal memory: Truth was, no one 
could recall when it had actually been built. The old, nondescript stone building 
had but one story, a sagging roof, and a few dirty, soot-stained windows. It was 
the sort of place that most folks just walked right by every day and never paid 
any heed - especially in the Cage, where far more interesting sights than the 
surrounding architecture constantly demand a body's attention. 

When some enterprising basher bought up the land around the area and 
proposed to knock down the church, no one protested. Most folks hadn't even 
realized that it was there until the workmen came to knock it down. People 
paused for a moment to watch as burly men with hammers brought down the 
walls stone by stone, then shrugged and moved along. Perhaps they scowled at 
the noise, but they realized it wouldn't take very long to demolish a building as 
small as the church. Maybe they even noticed that a dabus or two watched the 
destruction, but it wasn't strange to see the dabus interested in something like 
that, was it? 

All seemed normal until folks heard the chant spreading quickly through 
the Lower Ward: The workmen tearing down the old church had all disappeared. 

Naturally, when something bad happens, the first thing berks want to do is 
place the blame. Sure enough, folks pointed fingers everywhere. A dozen bash 
ers who swing hammers for a living don't disappear everyday, and they don't 
get scragged without a ruckus, either. Some said that fiendish slavers had taken 
the men for dark work on the Lower Planes. Others claimed that a faction was 
responsible, though it was always the enemy of the claimant that was suppos 
edly guilty. A very brave (or foolish) few blamed the dabus that they'd seen in 
the vicinity. 

Suddenly, the denizens of the Lower Ward started asking questions they'd 
never bothered - or thought - to voice before. "Whose church was that?" 
"What power or faith was it dedicated to?" "Who had worshiped there?'' "Where 
were the priests?'' Rumors wormed their way into the chant that secretive, dark 
cultists had used the church to sacrifice the workers to an evil god. And a few 
particularly top-shelf thinkers wondered why no one knew anything about this 
church - and why nobody thought that very fact was curious in and of itself. 


? 126 ? 




The Harmonium, always 
alert to disruptions of community peace, 
sent in a team of investigators to examine the area 
for clues and keep gawkers and addle-coves away. They 
claimed it was their responsibility to keep folks safe and 
catch the evil culprits who'd perpetrated the crime. Others 
said they got involved so quickly because the man who'd 

ordered the demolition work was a high-up in the faction. 'Course, it wasn't dif 
ficult to convince folks to stay away after the Hardhead investigators also disap 
peared without a trace. 

Now people were scared, and that brought even more attention to the whole situation. 

A Sensate named Vtyrgi Hammersmitt (PI/ <5 human/B3/Society of Sensation/CG) was drawn to 
the area, hoping to record some new experience for the Sensorium. Vtyrgi was the first cutter to notice 
the stones. 

In the ruin of the half-demolished building, he saw five stones that the workmen had obviously been 
unable to destroy. These large standing stones projected upward from deep within the ground, and the 
walls of the church had seemingly been built on or around them. Once the stones were pointed out, it 
was 
clear to everyone that the megaliths were older and of a different composition than the walls around 
them. Again, folks wondered why no one had noticed this before. 

The Athar closed off the area, claiming it was a "religious hazard." The Harmonium agreed about the 
danger, although they made no comment on the pamphlets that the Athar disseminated - tracts that 
de 
scribed the obvious threat that temples posed when they were built within a community. Tensions rose 
when a band of Signers demanded (and were refused) entrance to the half-ruined church. The Athar an 
nounced that the entire area would be demolished as soon as they could determine a safe way to level 
the 
place. The Signers protested and continued to insist on their right to enter the church, although they 


would not say why or for what purpose. 


THE DARK (c)f +H€ CHURCH 

Centuries - or perhaps millennia - ago, the last worshipers of a faded religion traveled onto the Astral 
Plane to seek the body of their deity, long since fallen into the eternal sleep of a god's death. In a final 
act 
of devotion, they stood upon the stony god-isle and, with great ritual and solemn reverence, cut it into 
pieces. Once finished, the worshipers brought the pieces of the god to Sigil, the City of Doors, and used 
them to erect a monument to the former power: the five standing stones. The devotees themselves 
drifted 
into obscurity (and ultimately the dead-book). 

Eventually, people forgot what the monument was and what it had represented. The energy around 
the monument was still quite evident, and so adherents of another (now equally forgotten) religion built 
a 
temple around the standing stones, incorporating them into the new church structure itself. As time 
passed, the second faith also died and slipped away out of memory. 

The church stood vacant for hundreds of years, until the area came into the possession of Cruigh 
Manathas (Pr/d human/O-level/Harmonium/LG), a blood of great wealth and influence. When he bid his 
workmen to tear the place down, they encountered the power of the standing stones and were 
absorbed 
into them. The Harmonium investigators were likewise drawn into the stones (see Part Three for 
details). 

Now, both the Athar and a group of Signers have tumbled to a modicum of truth about the stones. 
The Defiers're determined to see the church and the stones (and therefore the remnants of the god) 
de 
stroyed. The Signers - or rather, a hidden cabal within the Signers - want to attempt to restore the god 
right here in Sigil to prove their own "imagining" power and philosophy supreme. What neither side 
real 
izes is that they've been manipulated into conflict by a cutter with a very old grudge. Perhaps unlocking 
the mysteries of the stones is the only means to avert disaster. 


THC Pl(c)+ THICKCNS 

The factions have been played for rubes. A clever fighter named Argesh Fiord has been controlling the 
sit 
uation from the beginning, and his motivation is nothing less than war between the Signers and the 
Athar. Years ago, Argesh was a member of the Sign of One. When his wife, a priestess of Bast, was killed 
by a barmy Athar, neither the Signers nor the Athar did anything about it. Feeling betrayed by both fac- 


? 127 ? 




tions, Argesh hunted the 
crazed priestkiller on his own 
and put him in the dead-book. Both factions have long since 
forgotten the entire incident - but Argesh remembers. 

In his youth, Argesh had been an explorer, the kind of 
berk who poked into old ruins to scavenge worthwhile mater 
ial or just to see what was there. He'd explored the nameless 
church, and with the help of an ancient journal, managed to 
uncover the dark of the standing stones. It was his greatest 
find and his greatest secret. He kept quiet, knowing that the 
knowledge he'd gained would come in handy one day. He was 
right. 

After his wife died, Argesh secretly purchased the land 
on which the old church stood. Not long after, he faked his 
own death and in his will bequeathed the land to a Harmo 
nium merchant with whom he was mildly acquainted - 
Cruigh Manathas, the first gully in an elaborate peel. 

Meanwhile, Argesh took on a false identity and made 
contact with a disgruntled Signer, an enchanter named Mha- 
vor. Argesh subtly convinced Mhavor that the key to Signer 
power was indeed to raise a god from the dead, and that the 
Signer who succeeded would most certainly be the greatest of 
them all (perhaps even the One). Argesh knew that once he'd 
heard enough, Mhavor would eagerly leap at the chance to 
lead a group of Signers into the church. All he needed then 
was for the Athar to oppose the attempt. 

Argesh timed things perfectly. Just when Cruigh made 
the mystery of the church public, Argesh fed both Mhavor's 
Signers and the Athar the chant that an actual dead god lay 
inside. The clash was inevitable - and best of all, whoever 
won and went inside the church would fall prey to the stand 
ing stones' power. Argesh could just sit back and watch. 


? PREPARING f(c)R PLAY ? 

"Into the Light" is a Planescape(r) adventure for characters of 
virtually any level, since it involves very little combat and fo 
cuses on detective work and problem-solving skills. The ad 
venture is a companion to the larger quest in this book, "Out 
of the Darkness," and can be played together with it or as a 
separate scenario. 

Although a few maps appear throughout the text, the 
poster sheet contains one additional map showing the inside 
of the old church and the various locations visited in Part 
Three. To see this large map, the DM should unfold the poster 
sheet all the way. 

As with "Out of the Darkness," full statistics for major 
players in the adventure appear in the Appendix. For minor 


characters, abbreviated stat lines appear after their names, 
right in the text. 

"Into the Light" uses the factions heavily, and it takes 
place entirely in the City of Doors, though this fact might 
seem questionable in Part Three. The DM should be familiar 
with the factions as presented in the Planescape Campaign 
Setting boxed set. The FactoTs Manifesto (2611) expands on 
this information, though that book isn't essential for this ad 
venture. 

It's important that neither the Sign of One nor the Athar 
be depicted as "the bad guys," even if the PCs end up pitted 
against them. No faction should ever be portrayed as all bad, 
all good, always right, or always wrong. Ultimately, each 
group is at times both friend and foe, good and evil, right and 
wrong. When examined as a whole - from the perspective of 
the entire planar setting - the factions should always be far 
more than simply villains or benefactors. 

Like all good Planescape adventures, "Into the Light" has 
no cut-and-dried ending. Though the mystery of the standing 
stones is probably solved by the ride's end, big questions are 
still left unanswered - perhaps more important questions 
than those raised by the mystery itself. 

USING -eu+ (c)F +HC DARKNCSS" 

While the two adventures in Dead Gods can be played sepa 
rately, the DM can also insert the three parts of "Into the 
Light" into the course of "Out of the Darkness." Thus, the 
episodes of "Into the Light" become a subplot of the more epic 
quest, breaking up the intense focus of that dangerous chal 
lenge with a very different kind of adventure. 

The flowchart on the inside back cover of the book shows 
the recommended method for combining the two adventures. 
For more information, refer to the Introduction section of 
"Out of the Darkness." 

ADVEN + URE SUmmARY 

Part One of "Into the Light" occurs before "Out of the Dark 
ness" begins. The PCs first hear of the situation at the church, 
and they're sent by a neutral faction or interested party to 
find out the dark of it. During their investigation, they run 
into numerous other folks trying to ferret out the same infor 
mation. 

Part Two takes place when the adventurers first return to 
Sigil after their ordeals on Yggdrasil (right after Chapter III of 
"Out of the Darkness"). The conflict between the Signers and 
the Athar comes to a head, and the cutters must help to 
soothe tensions before the clash evolves into full-blown fac 
tion war. 

After Chapter VIII of "Out of the Darkness," the PCs're 
drawn back into Part Three of "Into the Light." Argesh Fiord 
finally makes his move, and the heroes discover the mystery 
of the church, experience a dead god's memories, and hope 
fully are wise enough to resolve the matter once and for all. 



a (r) £//(r)2 

The Great 

I Foundry G 


Barmy Street 

°£LL 4 


Alehouse Row 


¦smith 


Nickle Street 


Arbor Road 

ifeioV 


£nvil 

Square 


THfi 1(c)W£R WARD 


Storehouse 


House 


Abandoned 

i i 

==:House 


Abandoned 

fcHouse 


Abandoned 

Tavern 


Smithy 


House 


Abandoned 

Storehouse 


Storehouse 


Storehouse 




f 1 

Ld 

it 

fepc 

Shop 


Nickle Street 


i in 

t^rrAthar | 

. Guards 


Old Church *4 





Empty 

Lot 


Arbor Road 

30 35 1 











































































































































Part Qne: 

INI+IAL 



It seemed to Argesh that the beginning teas always 
the hardest pan. At the beginning, a body never 
knows if he's foreseen all the various contingen 
cies. What if the berks involved do something unexpected? 

Hmmph. Difficult even to imagine , 
he thought to himself. The addle-coves 
he'd been dealing with could be led about 
like children - no. like animals. A body 
just needed to study their weaknesses 
and then exploit them. And who had 
mure weaknesses than the self-righteous, posturing factions that live in the lice- 
infested IwU of their self-imposed Cage? 

Argesh knew he had nothing to worry' about. 


f"r a ys 



Faction politics and the intrigues of the city's high-ups may or may not catch 
the attention of the heroes, but in this particular case, it doesn't matter much. A 
factor or agent summons the characters and makes them an offer they shouldn't 
refuse. A number of possibilities are presented below, but no matter how PCs be 
come involved, the DM can then run "Learning the Chant" to bring them up to 
date. 


? GC + + ING +HC PCs INV0 


LVtD ? 


VENGEANCE 
IS VENGEANCE, 

N(r) m A + + E R 

new DIFFICUL + . 

+ imE-C(c)NSUlTllNG, 

(c)R C0NV0LU + ED +he PLAN. 

- ARGESH f I0RD 


No If desired, the DM can let the heroes Find out the background (given 
in the Introduction) on their own. Then they can dig up the information in 
"Learning the Chant" and follow the clues according to their own motivations. 

? I Naturally, when two factions clash, the rest want to know 

what's going on. The DM might select an agent from the faction of a par 
ticularly loyal character, a faction that has helped the PCs in the past, or 
simply one that the cutters're likely to help. If the heroes have no partic 
ular ties, the Fated make Fine sponsors - they like to know the dark of 
everyone else's business so they can exploit it to their own ends. (It's 
strongly recommended that the hiring faction not be the Athar or the 
Signers, as this would drastically change the adventure.) 


? VYi 'in hi < In this case, the PCs likely won't know the identity of 
their employers - or why they want chant on the church. Literally any 
one might be interested in the matter, from prosperous merchants in the 
Great Bazaar to proxies of various powers to the arcanaloth chant-broker 
Shemeshka the Marauder. 


? (>' M •aaim v The owner of the church property hires the PCs to in 
vestigate the whole thing. In this scenario, however, Cruigh would be 
more suspicious of the Signers and Athar, rather than just scared of the 
church (see "Cruigh Manathas," later in Part One). He wants to know why 
they're fighting over his land, wondering if he's the owner of something 
more valuable than he'd first thought. 


? 130 ? 




LEARNING 
+ HE CHAN + 


In this encounter, the agent selected by the DM summons 
the characters. Since the DM chooses the agent's employer 
to fit the campaign, he should also work out the details re 
garding this individual. 

The envoy greets the PCs and treats them to whatever form of refreshment 
they request. Throughout their meeting, he's extremely generous and accommodat 
ing, showing the heroes respect and courtesy. Eventually, the talk moves on to the business 
at hand: 


"Here's the chain: Word on the streets has it that the Si//tiers and the Lost are ready to come to blows 
at anv moment. Now. obviously, this sort oj thing occurs now and again, hut right now no one has any 
idea 
why - and that's not acceptable. There seems to be some disagreement iihout a tiny chart h in tin Lou 
11 
Ward, but it seems unlikely that such a thing could provoke hostilities to this degree. 

"So, here's the deal. IVc want you to poke around a little, park your ears in the right places, anil find 
out what's really happening. As long as you're discreet, there shouldn't he much danger or difficulty in 
volved. " 


At this point, the PCs probably have a few questions. The representative answers them as best he can 


Why us? / very simple. I suspect that something b 
ing into faction secrets. We cant send any of our regular agents into such a situation - there's loo much 
of a chance that u-e'd be implicated and possibly even dragged into the whole mess. This kind of investi 
 
gation ret/uires a delicate touch. If you're caught doing something that we don't want to be linked to. 
we'll 
deny this entire conversation ever occurred. We'll deny ever having any connection with you. You're on 
your own - but that's why we're filing your pockets with jink, isn't if/' 









What's this about a church? 'Apparently, there re been 
some strange disappea ranees at a church scheduled to he torn 
down in the Lower Ward. The At hat hare recently surrounded 
this place - / wonder how the owner of the property feels 
about that? But now, suddenly, some Signers are demanding 
to get in. No one knows why ." 


belongs to the secret subgroup. Further, the Signers want to 
know if the Athar have any information, and what they're 
planning to do with the church. 


? f AC + I (c) N C(c)mP€ + l + l(c)N ? 


Any other leads? "Just one. A basher named Hulester 
used to he a high-up member of the Athar. Turns out he's re 
ally an Anarchist. He was recently found out. and the whole 
thing was pretty public, so the poor sod's days of infiltration 
might he over for good. His own faction probably won't touch 
him now with a 10-foot pole (unless it's got a sharpened point 
on the endI, at least until the hear dies down. Hulester might 
know more about what the Athar are up to. and he's got no 
loyalty to them. 


The faction or high-up that hires the PCs isn't the only one in 
terested in the situation. Mhavor's Signer subgroup and the 
Athar are intimately involved, and once they discover (inde 
pendently. of course) berks poking into their affairs, they both 
commission folks to block investigations or stop the PCs. Sev 
eral other factions send in their own investigators, each with 
their different orders and levels of interest. Some are potential 
allies, but most (sadly) are more likely rivals and even enemies. 



The agent doesn't know much more about the situation. 
He offers each character 200 gp, plus a bonus of 200 more if 
they get the information back to him within a week and he 
thinks they've done a thorough job. Once they've been lanned 
to the chant, they should come directly to him, but not before 
they're ready with the total picture. He wants to know the big 
"why," and he wants details. Pretty simple. 

Here's the dark of this conversation, though: The agent 
hiring the player characters is actually an infiltrator working 
for the Sign of One. He's been told by his high-ups that a 
group within his own faction is involved 
with the situation at the church, but 
the rest of the Signers don't know 
what they're up to, or even who 


The Sign of One - or, more correctly, a subgroup of Signers - 
is one of the main factions mixed up in this adventure. Mha 
vor's secret subgroup started the trouble by trying to break 
into the church. Meanwhile, the rest of the faction waits to 
hear the chant from their agent - the one who hired the PCs. 

The Signer involvement's a little complicated. See, 
Argesh Fiord's dupe Mhavor used to be a member of the Will 
of the One, a splinter group of the Signers that had been ris 
ing in prominence due to the machinations of its leader, the 
water genasi Prisine. However, that group's recent upheaval 
and embarrassment (for particulars, see the adventure Doors 
to the Unknown [2626]) had brought on censure from the 
Signers' Factol Darius. Besides, Mhavor felt that Prisine's 

obsession with 
bringing back 
the dead god 
Aoskar was 
just too dan 
gerous and 
controver 
sial. (For 
more infor 
mation on 
Prisine and 
the Will of the 
One, consult 
Uncaged: Faces of 
Sigil [2624].) 
Mhavor left the Will of 
the One to form his own 
secret splinter group, the 
Way of the One. 

The DM should 
note that splinter 
groups such as the 
Will of the One and the 
Way of the One are 
still considered pan 



of the Signer faction. However, they follow their own agendas 
that sometimes conflict with the faction's overall goals. The 
highly individualistic nature of the Sign of One's philosophy 
inspires many such subgroups. 

When Mhavor's secret group of Signers finds out that 
people are looking into their business, they hire an assassin to 
put an end to the intruders' inquiries. These aren't evil bash 
ers (for the most part), but they're desperate to carry out their 
plan - and secrecy is imperative. The Way of the One ap 
points the half-elf Gremmith Mi to the case. 

Once assigned, the wizard-assassin stalks and attempts to 
put the PCs (or other investigating NPCs) into the dead-book. 
Gremmith is a short, overweight man who abhors physical 
exercise, combat, and even contact with other folks. He uses 
only spells or his magical blowpipe to attack. He won't be 
hired, however, unless the investigators (including any of the 
NPCs) attract the attention of the Signer group. 

It's up to the DM to determine if the assassin is hired and 
when he strikes. But Gremmith probably won't become in 
volved until the PCs confront the Signer known as Elchis (in 
the "Secret Meetings" encounter, later in Part One). 

THtA+HAR 

The Athar's side of the story is fairly simple: They just want to 
keep everyone out of the church. They're assembling a team 
of wizards to examine the place, but that 11 take some time. 
Meanwhile, the Lost (with the Harmonium's backing) have 
authority over the area. 

Now, the Athar know that the situation has aroused the 
curiosity of a lot of berks. Therefore, they've assigned a group 
of "troubleshooters" (five 5th-level fighters) to divert anyone 
poking their noses into the business. Like the Signer assassin, 
these cutters stay in the background until someone actively 
starts prying into the affair at the church. Unlike the assassin, 
however, the troubleshooters won't kill their foes. Instead, they 
attempt to throw investigators off the track. The troubleshoot 
ers plant false leads, give the PCs bad chant under phony iden 
tities, and bribe real sources (like the people in the neighbor 
hood of the church, including the folks at the Ubiquitous Way 
farer) not to talk. They can be a great hindrance to anyone 
seeking the needed information, but the PCs - if they're canny 
- have a few chances to catch the troubleshooters' influence 
before it throws off their investigation. 

Traditionally, the troubleshooters pay a garnish of 10 gp 
to convince folks not to talk. If a PC offers more than this, 
most berks not only rattle their bone-boxes about what they 
know, but they turn stag on the troubleshooters that bribed 
them in the first place. Also, peery cutters might tumble to the 
fact that their contacts are lying. If a player states that his 
character is suspicious about whether he's being told the 
truth, allow the character a Wisdom check at -4. If the check 
is successful, the character sees through the lie. 

The DM should keep in mind that while the troubleshoot 
ers are good, they can't be everywhere and they can t spoil 
every lead. What's more, if a PC ever threatens one of them, 


the troubleshooters aren't beyond using force. Fact is, by the 
end of the scenario, they'll probably resort to that anyway. 

(c) + HCR fAC + I (c) N S 

The headings below describe the other factions' reactions to 
the disturbance at the church, as well as any cutters they as 
sign to investigate the matter. 

Tilt Bl lJfiVHRS 01 I HI SlHIKlT. 

The Godsmen don't become involved except to caution their 
Athar allies to remain calm and try to find a peaceful solution 
to the situation. It's not entirely an altruistic stance - their own 
headquarters, the Great Foundry, lies near the seat of the con 
flict, and they don't want to be drawn into someone else's war. 

Till Bi i -\k Cabai . 

"Who cares?" sums up the faction's view nicely. 'Course, 
that's how they view almost everything, so a body shouldn t 
be too offended by their apathy. Individual Bleakers might get 
involved out of simple curiosity. 

The Doom(.liari). 

A mystery surrounding an abandoned church doesn't seem to 
be the kind of thing to promote entropy, but the Doomguard 
want to explore the possibility nonetheless. Lari Chant-Finder, 
a githzerai thief, volunteered to check it out. As her nickname 
suggests. Lari's able to find the dark about any subject, given 
enough time. Physically unremarkable, she blends into a 
crowd well, which is one of the keys to her success. Lari 
knows a great many folks throughout the City of Doors and 
has a good, intuitive feel for finding the right bloods and ask 
ing them the right questions. 

Tut Dustmen. 

Once they hear the rumors of a dead god, the Dustmen oppose 
the idea of Signers bringing the power back to life. If it's dead, 
then it's obviously gone to a higher plane of existence and 
shouldn't be dragged back. A Dustman or two might want to 
investigate the rumored power's unique deceased state, but 
otherwise they're not interested. 

Till Fathi. 

The Takers aren't specifically involved, but they watch the sit 
uation closely to see which faction ends up being strong 
enough to claim the church. In their minds, whoever holds it 
has the right to keep it. As explained above, the Fated may 
also be the faction that hires the PCs to look into the matter. 
Remember, however, that the agent who hires the PCs also re 
ports back to the Sign of One. 

Tut Fraternity oi Order. 

To the Guvners, anything unknown is just a mystery waiting 
to be solved. To this end, they assign the human paladin Mal- 
weis to investigate. The basher's also sympathetic to the views 
of the Harmonium and the Mercykillers, so he's not likely to 


? 133 ? 


look kindly on anyone suspected of breaking the law. He's as 
direct and unsubtle as they come, especially since he wears a 
ring of truth, but he's not without his own certain charm. 
Malweis is tall, blonde, and handsome. He works alone, and 
he won't give the PCs any help, since that might be consid 
ered turning stag on his own faction. Nevertheless, he would 
come to the PCs' aid (as he would help practically anyone) if 
he thought they were in danger. If Malweis determines a 
basher to be evil, however, the paladin shows him no mercy. 

Till Frh Li ACiUi*. 

As usual, the Indeps encourage members of their faction to 
act as each individual sees fit. The faction has no overall re 
sponse to the situation, although recent tensions between the 
Free League and the Harmonium may drive some Indeps to 
defy the Hardheads' dictates at every turn. 

Thf. Harmonium. 

The Harmonium namer Cruigh Manathas owns the land that 
the church sits on, and he's the one who inadvertently began 
this whole mess. After his workmen and then a Harmonium 
investigative team disappeared, the Hardheads were all too 
willing to agree with the Athar that the place was a hazard. 
For the moment, they're letting the Athar watch over the 
church and they've simply stepped up the nearby patrols to 
keep the peace. If things get out of hand, however (as may 
occur at the end of Part Two), the Harmonium takes stronger 
measures to guard the church and make sure that no one gets 
in. 

Till Mircykiufrs. 

The Red Death has more important things to do than watch 
over an ancient building. They're keeping tabs on the situa 
tion through the Harmonium patrols, and though they're not 
currently involved, they'll appear right quick if they think 
there's justice to be done. 

Till RfcVClIl NONARY I.I AGLIt. 

There's no organized response from the Anarchists (go figure), 
especially since they've just been exposed by the revelation of 
Hulester's status as their spy among the Athar. They might 
very well want revenge on Hulester for his incompetence. . . . 

Tilt SucifcTY or Si nsaiihn. 

A Sensate'd probably say that there wasn't anything veiy in 
teresting about guarding a dusty old church - not much po 
tential for new experiences there. 'Course, who can ever tell 
what a Sensate might find fascinating? 

The Sensate Vtyrgi Hammersmitt (the first one to notice 
the standing stones) continues to hang around the area, hop 
ing that something will happen to spark a new experience 
that he can add to the Sensates' catalog of sensations. 

Tiif Tk \nm i nih nt Ordfr. 

The Ciphers, though primarily involved with their own inner 
search for unity with the multiverse, aren't completely oblivious 


to events in the Cage. Therefore, they've hired the wind duke 
Ivth Nanright to find out what the Signers are doing. Ivth's 
known for gening results, which is why the Ciphers have faith 
in him. Unfortunately, the genasi is as evil and twisted as they 
come. A small man, Ivth has light blue skin and long white hair 
that never seems to stop moving about, as though it were being 
blown by a chill wind. Ivth employs four barghest minders and 
has 38 cranium rat spies throughout Sigil. 

This cruel basher uses any means to achieve his goals, 
and he's not beyond murder, torture, or anything else. In fact, 
Ivth doesn't consider any act too low. Ivth is probably the 
biggest threat to the PCs during the first part of the ride. If he 
finds out that the characters (or the other NPC groups) are 
looking for the same information that he's after, he plots and 
carries out their murders. He uses any method to hurt his foes 
- he'd even hold an innocent family member hostage to get 
at a rival. 

The barghests stay around Ivth, although they're not al 
ways out in the open. They often hide in their canine forms. The 
cranium rats work for Ivth because he's good at ferreting out se 
crets, and anything that he learns they know as well. (Sigil's 
cranium rats have taken the idea that knowledge is power as 
their own credo.) For the moment, these creatures serve Ivth un 
conditionally. The rats spread out individually to destinations 
picked by the genasi, observing what they can and then gather 
ing together again to increase their intelligence so they can 
process the data and communicate it to their master. 

The DM should remember that Ivth is likely to kill those 
he sees as competitors, and if he knows that he has such ri 
vals, he might kill any sources of chant he comes across as 
well. The PCs should have ample opportunity to see the trail 
of blood that he leaves. It might even serve the plot to have 
the PCs discover either the paladin Malweis or Lari Chant- 
Finder murdered by Ivth's hand (after the PCs've encountered 
the victim previously). 

Thi Xaosiik is. 

Whatever. The Chaosmen do as they always do - anything, 
nothing, and everything (sometimes all at once). It's about as 
easy to predict what the Xaositects will do as it is to find an 
honest man in Sigil. 


? Tim* unc (c)f cvfn + s ? 

The time line below shows key events during the adventure, 
starting when the PCs begin their investigation. Thus, Day 3 is 
three days after they begin. Day 6 is six days after, and so on. 
Remember, traipsing around a city the size of the Cage takes a 
good deal of time. The DM must track the heroes' movement 
because it will become important to match their progress 
against that of their competition. If one of the NPCs reaches 
an important source of information before the player charac 
ters do, the source might say something like, "That's funny, a 
fellow was here last night asking me the same sorts of ques 
tions-" Confrontation with these competitors is highly rec- 


? 134 ? 


ommended. The PCs should know that others are looking for 
the chant, too. 

Only the activities of Malweis. Lari, and Ivth are detailed; 
the time line shows which of the important avenues of inquiry 
they reach each day. Once the assassin Gremmith Mi and the 
Athar troubleshooters become involved (as noted in the en 
counters below or as determined by the DM), the DM should 
track their movements as well. 

Non. A map of the important areas of the Lower Ward 
appears on page 129. 

Day 0 - The PCs begin investigating. 

Day 1 - Lari Chant-Finder begins to investigate the Signers 
and the Athar at their faction headquarters and else 
where. 

Day 2 - Malweis begins his investigation by trying to enter 
the church; he fails and just escapes with his life. Lari 
continues to investigate the Signers and Athar. Ivth s cra 
nium rat agents begin scouring the church's neighbor 
hood. (Local folks notice this and begin talking about the 
sudden increase in cranium rats in the area.) 


Dav 3 - Malweis interrogates sods at the Ubiquitous Way 
farer, but Hulester won't talk to him. Lari continues to in 
vestigate the Signers and Athar. 

Dav 4 - Malweis talks with people around the neighborhood. 
Lari continues to investigate the Signers and Athar; by 
the end of Day 4, she knows that only a splinter group 
of the Signers is involved, and even knows a few of 
their names. Ivth questions folks in the Ubiquitous Way 
farer. 

Dav 5 - Malweis talks with more sods around the neighbor 
hood. Lari attempts to get information out of the Athar 
guards at the church, to no avail. Ivth sends his rats to 
the Shattered Temple. 

Day 6 - Malweis continues to talk to folks around the neigh 
borhood. Lari interrogates sods in the Ubiquitous Way 
farer and the local neighborhood. Ivth's rats go to the 
Hall of Speakers, while Ivth himself goes to the Hall of 
Records and then to talk to Cruigh Manathas. 

Day 7 - Malweis tries to get into the church again. Lari 
speaks with Barmy Kank and Cruigh. Ivth's rats go to the 
church, while Ivth attempts to capture one of the guards 
there and torture him for information. 








? THE RIDE ? 

With its many characters, motivations, and treacheries, "Into 
the Light" can be a complex adventure to run. But once the 
DM has all the personae straight, he's ready to tackle the PCs' 
actions. Keep in mind that the cutters may take any of the 
courses of action described below in any order. Plus, they'll 
almost certainly try things not covered here. The DM has to 
be ready for anything. 

The heroes probably start by finding the failed spy 
Hulester, but what they do next is entirely their choice. They 
might investigate a number of supposedly fine prospects that 
turn out to be no help at all; for example, no libraries or 
bookshops have any material on the church. The DM should 
embellish and detail such potential leads without making it 
obvious that they're dead ends. Areas of investigation that 
prove fruitful are discussed below. 

fINDING HULES + CR 

Any number of sources can tell the PCs that Hulester (Pl/cJ 
human/F 10/Revolutionary League/CN) spends his nights at a 
tavern called the Ubiquitous Wayfarer. A number of bashers 
can even give a verbal description of him - which is one of 
the reasons he's out of work. The Anarchists don't have much 
use or respect for a spy who's easily recognized as one of their 
own. 

The Ubiquitous Wayfarer is a prominent tavern in the 
Lower Ward, not far from the old church. The three-story es 
tablishment is known as a friendly, safe place. Refer to the 
map on page 137. The bottom floor holds a taproom, kitchen, 
and larder (the cellar beneath stores nonfood items). The 
upper two floors contain rooms to let. The bub flows freely, 
meals are filling if not fancy, and many planewalkers hang 
about because folks believe that the Wayfarer contains over 
two dozen portals. 

The tavern is full to capacity tonight, and something 
about the look of the place tells you that it's full every night. 
The smell of smoke, drink, and middle-class Layers is thick m 
the air, as is the din from the talking and the two mediocre 
musicians playing pipes in the comer. A large statue that sev 
eral folks seem to be studying very carefully stands in the cen 
ter of the taproom. The man you recognize from descriptions 
as Hulester sits by himself by a wall. 

Not surprisingly, Hulester's not talkative. The middle- 
aged, gruff-looking basher denies any involvement with the 
Athar or the Revolutionary League, and he brandishes a 
(stolen) Sensate symbol to prove it. If the PCs continue to 
press him, he says in his gravelly voice, "Hey, berks, leave me 
be. I'm only here for the bub and the scenery." 

As he says this, anyone watching him notices that his 
eyes fall upon the woman behind the bar. She's Riaen Black- 
home (PI/9 human/O-level/Fraternity of Order/LN), the pro 
prietor of the Ubiquitous Wayfarer. Hulester fell in love with 


her while posing as one of the Athar, and his infatuation ru 
ined his cover. He lost all interest in his mission and focused 
his attentions on her. His is an unrequited love, however, 
since he's never even had the courage (or perhaps the know 
how) to approach her. 

Hulester won't spill his knowledge or even admit that he 
knows anything unless the PCs somehow bring he and Riaen 
together. 'Course, the berk'd never ask for that kind of help - 
he's content to simply watch Riaen in silence - but once the 
characters learn about his infatuation, they might come up 
with the plan on their own. 

Riaen wouldn't strike most berks as being the object of 
someone's obsession. Years of hard work show in her face and 
hands, and she pulls her graying hair severely back from her 
face so it doesn't interfere with her work. A simple frock 
stained with other people's bub drapes her stocky frame. Un 
fortunately for the PCs, she's never noticed Hulester and has 
no interest in getting to know him. Only a persuasive talker 
could convince her even to come out from behind the bar. 

If the PCs successfully bring the two together (which 
means introducing them and getting them past that initial 
awkward stage), Hulester is so grateful that he tells the PCs 
what he knows about recent Athar activities: 

? The faction recently found out about a church [just up 
the street, he points out) where folks have been disap 
pearing mysteriously. Almost immediately, the whole 
faction mobilized to cordon the place off. 

? Other factions are involved, too. The Signers appar 
ently want into the church, but the Athar are willing to 
fight to keep them out. The Harmonium also have some 
ties to the place. 

? Rillem Postaff, an Athar factor, heads up the operation. 
She's supposedly the one who convinced Factol Ter 
rance of the mission's importance. 

? Rillem had posted Hulester in the tavern to keep an eye 
out for potential trouble. The Athar probably have a 
new plant or two in the Ubiquitous Wayfarer right 
now. 

That last bit is quite true: An Athar spy is present, and at 
this point in the ride, the faction's troubleshooters pick up the 
PCs' trail. The DM must decide how much they interfere with 
the characters' investigation. 

N< If the heroes don't win Hulester over, they can pick 
up the same chant from other sources, but it takes longer. 
They're left behind by the other investigators and may not be 
able to make up the difference, as those involved (such as 
Barmy Kank or Elchis) might disappear (or be killed) before 
the PCs reach them. 


? 136 ? 



House 


The 

Ubiquitous 

Wayfarer 


Ironmonger Street 

Front Door 2 l j] 


The Old Church 


Leather 

Worker's 


Sleeping 

Rooms 


Store 

Room 


Warehouse 


Warehouse 


ouse 


THfi 

UBIQUI + eUS 
WAYFARH 


Sleeping | Sleeping 
|Room I Room 


Second Story 


Second Story 


Store 

Room 


Kitchen 


Taproom 


Cellar 


Shop 

Shop 

i 1 ••'ill | W ! * 1 ii| 

Tena merit HJ > 


JL -yy-Ljnrv) * 



ff Sleeping 1 

Sleeping nJ 

i Room 

Room jT 






|li ii C< 

? Sleeping 

A Room 

Sleeping 
, Room j 

[Sleeping^ 
; Room 



Sleeping! | 


jRoom 1 


] ^ 

Taproom 

q floaBl 

r| kr^ - * 1 

^Kltchenjj 


-ss3oes33-cri 

Shop 

Stairs 

I (r) 1 

^Shop^j 

Shop 

Shop j 

? Up To J 



hj-fpcw-ir^ 







































































































0 + HERS A + 
+ HE TAVERN 


Hulester isn't the only 
berk at the Wayfarer 
with chant to share. 

There's also Phol 
Nerris (PI /6 human/ 

F6/Free League/NG), a 
well-known blood in the 
neighborhood. His large bulk 
belies a kind face behind his 
bushy black beard, and he's 
capable and generous in 
helping folks sort out 
their problems. Phol has 
but one weakness: the 
Ubiquitous Wayfarer's puzzle 
statue. 

See, the magical statue 
at the center of the tap- 
room, which depicts a 
barmy old wizard with a 
long beard and a 
pointed hat, speaks 
riddles - a new one each 
week. If the PCs move 
near, they hear the current 
riddle: 


"My eves are old and I can't 
eyeball a measurement to save 
my life. I've a mug that holds 
five fingers of bub. and another 
that holds three. I'm thirsty enough 
for four fingers of that fine stuff, but 
any more than that lays me out Jlat. 
What am I to do. for my bone-box is 
ever so dr\\ 


Here's the solution: Fill up the 
mug that holds five and then fill 
the other mug from the first until the mug that holds 
three is full, thus leaving two fingers of bub in the five-finger 
mug. Empty the mug that holds three and then pour the bub 
from the other mug in. Now, fill up the five-finger mug and 
pour from that enough to fill the mug that holds three (which 
is exactly one finger's worth). That leaves four fingers of bub 
in the mug that holds five. 'Course, another solution is to use 
the first part of the trick to measure out two fingers, drink it 
down, and then do it again. 

Poor Phol is caught up in this puzzle and can't solve it 
for all the jink in Sigil. He's too preoccupied to talk with the 
heroes, though if someone were to help him solve the puzzle, 
he'd be so relieved that he'd gladly tell what he knows about 
the church. Phol's heard that a small group of Signers plans to 


BARmY RANK 

If the PCs search the streets near 
the Ubiquitous Wayfarer or the 
church at night, they come across 
a gaunt, leatheiy-skinned man 
dressed in light but tattered 
hides and sporting a staff made 
of bones tied together with 
hardened leather strips. 
Kank (Pr/cJ human/M3/N), 
a Clueless from the 
prime-material world of 
Athas, didn't take the 
transition to the planes 
well. He's completely barmy 
now and thinks that he's a time-traveler 
come to his world's distant past. He needs 
no incentive or garnish to rattle his bone- 
box. In fact, the PCs might have a challenge getting him to 
pike it - especially if they give him any encouragement. 

As a "time-traveler," Kank feels free to pronounce 
prophecy now and again. He's been focused on the old 
church since he heard the chant about the disappearances 
there. Now he spends his time telling folks: "The end of Sigil 
is coming, and it will come from that church. A great war will 
issue forth from that spot, and every person in this great city 
will die because of it." The PCs might think this is true 
prophecy because it sounds a little like what Cager doomsay- 
ers have been saying already, but it's all screed from Rank's 
own addled brain-box. 


break past the Athar blockade. The attempt might not 
happen for a week or two, but it's definitely in the 
works. He overheard one of the Signers involved 
call another "Elchis." This Elchis looked to be a 
full-blooded elf. 

Additional sources of information at the tavern 
include Nherid (PI/9 tiefling/T2/Xaositect/CE), who 
sports long black nails and black eyes with no 
pupils. She points out Wilphesh Gidderskins (PI/<5 
bariaur/F4/Free League/N), saying that the bariaur's 
been poking around the tavern every night, asking the 
same questions as the PCs. She suspects that he's a fac 
tion spy. 'Course, this information won't come without 
a little garnish, and unfortunately, it's a complete 
lie. Nherid just doesn't like Wilphesh and 
wants to send a little trouble his way. 

A number of folks in the tavern (in 
cluding Wilphesh) can tell the heroes to 
find an old basher named Kank who 
wanders the streets nearby at night. 
Many folks've heard him talking about 
the church, but no one's ever paid much 
attention since Rank's thought to be a 
little barmy. 


? 138 ? 








Cruigh knows 
nothing about the 
dabus interest in the church, nor has he 
ever heard anything strange about the building other than the 
recent disappearances. If someone tries to tell him about the 
dabus or the fact that no one noticed the place for years, he 
gets angry and says, "Hey, whose story is this, anyway?" 

If asked about Argesh Fiord, Cruigh tells the PCs that the 
berk was a crazy old priest. (Cruigh is wrong - Argesh was 
never a priest, but his interest in the old church made him ap 
pear to be.) Cruigh didn't know him well and has no idea why 
Argesh left him the land when he died. 



He's also seen the "floating picture-people" (the dabus) 
poking around the church. Most importantly, he knows how 
to sneak past the Athar blockade. At night, if a body can slip 
past the three guards watching the back of the church, he can 
crawl inside unnoticed through a hole in the back wall. (Kank 
occasionally used the church as shelter on rainy nights; 
Argesh left him alone because he was obviously no threat.) 
'Course, Kank won't say anything about the hole unless asked 
about the church itself. 

THE RES + (c)f + H € NEIGHB(c)KH(c)(c)D 

Canny bashers might wonder why no one else has ever paid 
attention to the church. At First, it might seem to be a simple 
case of Cager self-absorption. But after the PCs talk to a num 
ber of people, they notice a similarity in the locals' stories. 
Folks just never noticed the church. They knew a building oc 
cupied that part of the street, but they never knew or cared 
what it was. The thought of noticing the place never entered 
their minds. People are seeing it now as if for the First time. 

Truth is, the magical force surrounding the stones did 
subtly prevent the Cagers from seeing or wondering about the 
church. The remnants of the god's consciousness warded 
away attention to prevent just the sort of circumstances that 
are occurring now. (See Part Three for more information on 
the power.) 

If the PCs talk to a lot of folks (more than 10), they also 
Find a cutter who says she noticed that the dabus seemed in 
terested in the workmen as they tore down the church. If 
asked, a few others remember that fact as well. 

THE HALL (c)f REC(c)RDS 

Assuming that the PCs can enter the Fated's headquarters and 
gain access to its information - a process that requires some 
smooth talking and substantial garnish - the heroes learn 
that Cruigh Manathas, a Harmonium namer, currently owns 
the land on which the church stands. He apparently inherited 
the deed many years ago from someone named Argesh Fiord. 
While Cruigh is easily found, further information about 
Argesh is not. 

CRUIGH mANA + HAS 

The wealthy Hardhead Cruigh originally ordered the church to 
be torn down. Now he's afraid of the place, after losing not 
only a team of construction workers but a group of Harmo 
nium soldiers and investigators as well. He feels that some 
kind of curse lies on the building, and he has no problem with 
the Athar's quarantine of the area - and neither, he points 
out, do the Harmonium high-ups. Cruigh gladly tells inter 
ested cutters the story of the disappearances (as related in the 
Introduction), as he loves to be the center of attention. Thus, a 
lot of folks have heard these stories, and the chant is spread 
ing fast. It's likely that Cruigh's tales become more embell 
ished with each rattle of his bone-box. 


THE SHA++ERED TEfTlPLE 

At some point, the PCs probably visit the Shattered Temple, 
the faction headquarters of the Athar. This ancient, ruined. 
Lower Ward temple doesn't get a lot of visitors, but that does 
n't mean that they're unwelcome. A tiefling guide named 
Caylean (Pl/cJ tiefiing/R4/Athar/CG) can give folks tours and 
answer general questions. Under no circumstances can they 
speak with Rillern Postaff or Factol Terrance, but they might 
be able to speak with Rillem's aide Jeanskar if they're respect 
ful and polite. Jeanskar (Pr/9 half-orc/O-level/Athar/NG). an 
intelligent, well-spoken, and pleasant (if ugly) basher, relates 
the faction's public stance on the quarantine of the church. 

"Wr of the Athar have long contended that while people 
hare a right to foolishly waste their time and attention on the 
so-called powers ," she says, her toothy smile never so much 
as quavering. "they should not he allowed to build places of 
worship in public areas. Such sanctuaries 4 are a threat and a 
menace to the individuals living in the community, for the be 
ings called upon at such places are untrustworthy and incom 
petent in their use of power. These places are the sites of 
many documented murders, disappearances, and accidents. 
The Athar. under the direction of our skillful and knowledge 
able Factol Terrance, has deigned - at our own expense - to 
protect the citizenry ofSigil against further horrors at this site 
until such time as the hazard can be destroyed . " 

Even if one of the PCs belongs to the Athar, he can't meet 
with the high-ups - the bloods're just too busy. However, fac- 
tioneers get the feeling that the Lost are sincere in their ex 
treme fear of the church, but there's no indication as to why. 

THE HALL (c)F SPEAKERS 

Like the Shattered Temple, the Signers' headquarters is a po 
tential area of investigation. Unlike that locale, however, the 
Hall of Speakers brims with people. Signers here all deny any 
interest in the small church. Most profess ignorance of the en 
tire situation - even if any of the PCs are Signers themselves. 
See, the faction members the heroes speak with honestly don't 
know what's going on. It's only Mhavor's secret subgroup 
within the faction, the Way of the One, that wants into the 


? 139 ? 


church. While all Signers're dedicated to one day using their 
abilities to revive a dead power, Mhavor's bashers want to 
focus on the god within the standing stones. They're keeping 
their plan a secret even from their brethren, so that when the 
time comes, they can resurrect the deity and seize control of 
the faction as well. 

The PCs have more success if they use the name that they 
heard from Phol in the Ubiquitous Wayfarer. Upon asking for 
an elf named Elchis, they're brought to a small records office 
where she toils. The overworked, raven-haired elf is intelli 
gent, but seemingly confused as to who the PCs are and what 
they want with her. She won't admit to having anything to do 
with the church and claims not to understand what the cutters 
are talking about. 

However, Elchis secretly belongs to the Way of the One. 
Only a detect lie spell or similar technique reveals that she 
does, indeed, know more than she's saying. But if the PCs 
menace her in any way, she calls for help. Signer security 
(four 2nd-level fighters) arrives in two rounds, and they un 
ceremoniously dump the characters into the street. 

sccrc+ mte+iNGs 

Canny PCs might tumble to the idea of watching or following 
Elchis. Each night, she visits Mhavor's case - and so do a lot 
of other folks. See, his home is where the secret subgroup 
makes its plans to break into the church. The PCs can learn 
Mhavor's name either by asking his neighbors (using a cover 
story or a little garnish) or by eavesdropping. They can even 
get a description or spot him themselves: Mhavor's an old 
white-haired man who's missing an eye and walks with a 
limp. 

As soon as she arrives at the meeting, Elchis tells the 
others about the PCs' questions. They all agree that it's time to 
dispatch the assassin Gremmith Mi, and the half-elf soon be 
gins stalking the PCs (unless the DM determines that he's been 
called in before this). 

'Course, the Way of the One has a lookout who keeps an 
eye on the outside of the place. If the sentry spots the PCs, she 
alerts those inside (most of whom flee immediately), and she 
and five other bruisers (4th-level fighters) attempt to put the 
spies in the dead-book. They're determined to keep the identi 
ties of Mhavor and Elchis secret. 

Knowing that they've been marked, the Signers of the 
Way of the One move to another hidden safehouse, which the 
PCs can't find. The berks make their next move in Part Two of 
"Into the Light." 

CXPL0RING 
? +HC CHURCH ? 

At some point, the PCs will want to explore the church. To do 
this, however, they need to sneak or fight their way past the 
Athar guards (3rd-level fighters) around the place. 


Arbor Road is a quiet street with little activity. The 
church sits near the corner, one wall partially demolished. 
Two guards are visible out front, and the interior of the temple 
itself looks dark. The lot next to the church on the right has 
been cleared of whatever once stood there. The building on the 
left . on the corner of the street , still stands - although it is 
likewise dark. A small yard surrounds the church. though 
there are no outbuildings or objects Hike markers, statuary; or 
tombstones) that a body might find in other churchyards. 

The two guards at the entrance're supported by a cross 
bowman on the roof of the building across the street (a rarely 
visited storehouse). Also, 20 warriors wait in the building 
next door to the left. With them is their leader, Ghear the 
Sighted, an action-oriented, quick-tempered young priest of 
the Great Unknown. These reserves strive to be ready at all 
times. Two more guards and a minor wizard (a 4th-level 
transmuter) patrol Nickle street and watch the buildings be 
hind the church for intruders. The guards rotate duties every 
24 hours, with half being relieved every 12 hours. What's 
more, the Athar have commissioned Riaen of the nearby 
Ubiquitous Wayfarer to supply the soldiers with meals every 
six hours. 

The Athar high-ups have instructed that the guards may 
employ deadly force to insure that no one enters the church. 
This includes Athar members - even the guards haven't set 
foot in the place. 

To examine the church from the outside, the PCs could 
pose as Athar or accompany Riaen's workers on one of their 
deliveries. Getting inside probably requires magic or infiltra 
tion skills. If they foolishly decide to fight their way in, a Har 
monium squad of 15 troops responds within five minutes 
after combat begins. If the PCs spoke with Barmy Kank, how 
ever, they already know about the gap in the back wall. 

Inside the old stone church, you can see that all former 
furnishings or decorations have been stripped away. Likewise. 
the building lacks interior walls and most of the ceiling. Here 
and there along the remaining outer wall, you can make out 
what appear to be large stones of a different mineral and afar 
greater age than those in the rest of the church. The limited 
light filtering in reveals strange patterns on these stones - all 
of which are set into the ground and rise to a height of at least 
6 feet - but the markings appear to be natural. 

Unfortunately, at this point in the ride, the PCs can't dis 
cover anything of importance inside the church. No clues 
exist to uncover the origin of the place, the real nature of the 
standing stones, or anything else. The power within the stones 
isn't activated until the name of the god they once embodied 
is spoken near them (which will happen in Part Three). A trip 
to the church at this point only proves that the Athar are very 
serious about keeping folks out. 


? 140 ? 


TH € A+HAR AfTlBUSH 

If the Athar tumble to the fact that the PCs are nosing around 
the church - or worse yet, that the heroes eluded the guards 
and actually entered the church - they try to find the bashers 
and scrag them. The Athar troubleshooters attack, using sur 
prise coupled with good timing. For example, they're likely to 
strike at the PCs when the group splits up or when their guard 
is completely down - while they're eating, sleeping, or other 
wise occupied. 

Unless the PCs've put a number of the Athar in the dead- 
book or caused considerable problems, the troubleshooters 
aren't intent on the characters' deaths. Instead, they mean this 
attack as a warning. The Athar threaten, beat, and humiliate 
the characters (if possible), but don't try to kill them. They 
might even kidnap the berks, drag them to a remote spot (like 
the middle of the Slags in the Hive), and dump them uncere 
moniously on the ground with a warning to stay out of Athar 
business - or else. The threat isn't an empty one, either. They 
won't hesitate to kill the PCs next time. 

On the other hand, if the PCs have been mercilessly 
bloodthirsty in their mission, the troubleshooters attack with 
blades coated with Type M poison (onset time: ld4 minutes; 
strength: 20/5). They strike like assassins from the shadows - 


quick, unexpected, and with as little chance for reaction from 
their victims as possible. 

? DELIVERING +HE CHAN+ ? 

Eventually, the PCs should return to the agent who hired 
them. They might not feel that they've got the whole story 
(and they don't), but at this point, too many things keep them 
from learning the real dark. Still, they should know that the 
conflict is definitely centered around the church, that the 
Athar are fanatic about not letting anyone in due to the sup 
posed danger, and that the Signers interested in the church 
are just a splinter group of the Sign of One. 

As long as the heroes deliver the basic information to their 
contact in a timely manner, they receive their bonus payment. 
(Revealing the identities of Mhavor and Elchis ensures the extra 
jink, as the agent's Signer employers are very interested in 
knowing which of their fellows have turned stag.) 

Obviously, there's more to the story - and to the adven 
ture. However, a fair amount of time passes before the PCs are 
dragged back into the thick of things. This enables the DM to 
run other scenarios, including Chapters I through III of "Out 
of the Darkness." 



JCt fldftuii 


fl &2? fJ' 

~ fj 


IMl J.. 1 

1*1 li! I 

Ilk 1 

lb .m 


? 141 ? 




































"We simply cannot la this go on," Mhavor said 
flatly. The small room was dimly lit. and the faces 
of his co-conspirators were masked in deep shadow. 

The old man leaned heavily upon his wooden staff, knowing full well that his 
followers thought him to be old and feeble. He'd soon show them the error 
of underestimating him. 

^ "Bur what can ice do?" Crail asked, an annoying whine creeping in - 

1 advertently into his voice. "The 


Pact 

CROSSED SW(r)RDS 



SIGNERS, 
signers, SIGNERS, 
•m +IRED (r)f HEARING 
AB0U+ +he 
S0DDING SIGNERS. 

- GHEAR. 

+ he SIGH + ED 


Lost have the place surrounded ." 

** Ah, m v young friend , you 
have so much to learn regarding 
the Way of the One." Mhavor 
considered his companion for a moment, then continued. 
"Don't you understand? LVr make things happen. We 
manipulate all things, for all things are the 
dreams and imaginings of our own 
minds ." 

"Yes, of 
course, but - 
"But noth 
ing," Mhavor inter - 
ruptea , an edge cutting 
into his voice. "We make things 

happen. We make others do our bidding. We are the center of the multiverse. 

"We need the Athar around the church to go away. Make it happen." 


RIDE HEA + S UP ? 


Events in this part of the adventure take place some time after the PCs' first ex 
periences with the church, most likely after they've become enmeshed in other 
matters. Why? Because what happens next is meant to come as a surprise. 

See, the rogue Signers from Part One tumbled (one way or another) to the 
heroes' involvement and decided to use the berks to accomplish their own goals. 
Now, in Part Two, their actions bring the player characters into the thick of 
things just as the Athar and the Sign of One hover on the brink of interfaction 
conflict. 

If the DM is using "Out of the Darkness," the PCs probably have just fin 
ished with the events in Chapter III. They're back in the Cage and resting up 
from their adventures on Yggdrasil. They even hear a bit of chant regarding the 
situation they dealt with in Part One of "Into the Light": The tensions around the 
nameless church are heating up. The Athar have issued an ultimatum to the Sign 
of One that if anyone attempts to enter the church, the Signers'll be blamed and 
pay the music. The Sign of One, in the meantime, has warned Mhavor against 
further meddling (assuming they learned of his involvement), but they certainly 
don't tell the Athar that; the faction's internal politics aren't open to the scrutiny 
of others. Nevertheless, the Sign of One has declared that if any of their mem 
bers are harmed by the Athar, the Lost will feel the sting of retribution. Things 
don't look good. 

At some point, they PCs're approached by a beautiful, silver-haired, female 
elf named Daniphe. She's a Xaositect cross-trader in the employ of the Way of 
the One. Daniphe's also a lycanthrope - a foxwoman - and her disarming 
beauty charms males with a Wisdom score of 13 or less. Even those able to re 
sist (Wisdom 14 or higher) still find her very attractive and are likely to listen to 
her pleas. Daniphe uses this gift to her full advantage as she plays the hapless 
damsel in distress. 


? 142 ? 



"Please, you must help me. 

I've no one else ro turn to, and there's no 
time left. My sister. . . she's a wizard, and she he 
longs to the Chaosmen . With all the wigwagging about 
that old church in the Lower Ward, she's decided to do 
something completely barmy. Chant has if that you're 
been there or know something about it. You're gift ro stop 
her. or at least get those people out of the area." 

She claims that her sorcerous, insane sister is preparing to unleash a terrible magical 
plague upon the area around the church to provoke a faction war and throw the city into 
chaos. Daniphe seems utterly sincere in her desire to prevent this before it occurs. She says that 
she doesn't want her sister harmed, but admits that the woman must be stopped. 

Non. For a more straightforward (and less manipulative) way to work the PCs into the adventure, one 
or more of the heroes' factions requests that they approach the Athar and try to cool things down 
before 
a real war begins. Unfortunately, just as the poor sods get involved, the Signers make their move to 
invade 
the church, and they all end up trapped in the Ubiquitous Wayfarer (for details, refer to "The Edge of 
War," 
later in Part Two). ' . 



? PLAGUC AND PANIC ? 


Everything Daniphe says is a lie. No magical 
plague exists. She's been charged with 
bringing the PCs to the nameless 
church and having them distract the 
Athar there. 

The characters can respond 
to the supposed threat in any 
way they see fit. They might 
start by sending the local folks 
packing, which Daniphe thinks 
is a fine idea. In fact, the more 
chaos that results from her lies, 
the better - both for the Way of 
the One's purposes and her own 
Xaositect beliefs. Naturally, no one 
gives much credence to the idea of a 
magical plague at first. The DM might 
wish to make reaction rolls for the neigh 
borhood cutters to see if they find the PCs 
believable. Once the characters convince one or 
two bashers, though, the chant begins to grow like a 
snowball rolling down Mount Celestia. When they see 
their neighbors packing and leaving, at least half of the 
people in the area believe what the PCs have to say. * 1 

These folks themselves grab a few possessions and begin to 
flee. The more this happens, the more people believe, until the 
entire neighborhood succumbs to panic and tries to leave the area. 

Folks at the Ubiquitous Wayfarer are less likely to panic, but a 
few of them do indeed flee if the PCs specifically warn them of the 
"magical disease." The screed is quickly blown out of proportion, 
and soon every leatherhead in the Lower Ward becomes convinced that Sigil's 
under attack by plague-bearing bladelings or some other such nonsense. The PCs 
find themselves responsible for the most chaos Sigil has seen in . . . well, a few days, 
anyway. 


? 143 ? 



And it all transpires exactly as Mhavor and his cronies 
have planned - which is exactly what Argesh Fiord is count 
ing on. 

A + +HC CHURCH 

When the PCs reach the nameless, half-torn-down church, 
they find the Athar guards on alert. If the heroes have pan 
icked the neighborhood, the guards are more peery than ever 
but find themselves distracted by the upset people swarming 
through the streets and by the thought of a magical plague (or 
whatever chant they've heard). 

Ghear the Sighted stops the approaching PCs. (If the 
priest met with an untimely end in Part One, the DM should 
substitute a similarly equipped clerical leader.) Ghear refuses 
to listen to any attempt to convince him of coming calamity. 
An extremely loyal faction member, he won't abandon his 
post for anything short of an order from Factol Terrance him 
self. Some of the other guards might not be quite as extrem 
ist, however. 

"You're spouting screed," the young priest states Jlatly - 
or as flatly as he can. His long black hair hangs down into his 
face, and lie constantly pushes it away. The action betrays a 
nervousness and tension that make you feel uncomfortable. 
The priest is obviously on edge, and it probably wouldn't take 
much to set him off. He says . " Nothing'll make us leave our 
post here - least of all some leatherheaded chant about an 
imaginary disease ." 

During the confrontation with Ghear and the other 
Athar, Daniphe tries to slip away quietly by hiding among the 
panicked people in the street or by using her ability to turn 
into a silver fox (or both). If caught in the act, she reverts to 
her "vixen" form, a half-canine, half-elven shape with a 
deadly bite. In this form, she tries to cause even more chaos 
before escaping. If Daniphe gets away, she won't return, hav 
ing accomplished her mission. 

All of this turmoil serves as a distraction for Mhavor and 
his rogue Signers, who attempt to infiltrate the church by 
magically flying some of their number over the wall. A flurry 
of crossbow bolts from hidden archers across the street sends 
the Signers scurrying back, however - they weren't aware of 
the Athar guards on the rooftop. 

The jig is up. Ghear rushes forward to see what's happen 
ing, shouting for information. The guards call to him: "It's the 
Signers! We're under attack!" The priest, no fool, immediately 
tumbles to the invasion attempt and the distraction that al 
lowed it. He assumes that the heroes play a part in the Sign 
ers' plan, and he commands his men: "Scrag the infiltrators or 
put them in the dead-book - I don't care which!" 

Unless the PCs feel like fighting the numerous and well- 
trained Athar guards, they should flee at this point. Discretion 
is definitely the better pan of valor. 


f I G H + (c) R FUGH + 

As ordered, the Athar guards attack the PCs. If the heroes stay 
and fight, they'll have a big battle on their hands - quite pos 
sibly one that they'll lose. The only thing in the characters' 
favor is the fact that some of the guards are still busy chasing 
off Mhavor's Signers. Nevertheless, chances are that at least 
some of the heroes will be scragged by the guards and turned 
over to the Harmonium. At that point, the DM must determine 
what becomes of the berks, though they're probably charged 
with such offenses as "disrupting the public peace," "inciting 
to riot," "invading a proscribed area," and whatever else the 
Harmonium can think up. Then it's up to Sigil's court system 
to decide their fate. 

If the PCs try to escape, the guards give chase. But they 
pursue the characters for only a couple of blocks; the guards 
won't run too far from the church for fear that this is yet an 
other diversion. Anything the heroes do to throw off pursuit 
- using spells, peels, or anything else - probably works, and 
once the characters're out of sight or deemed no longer a 
threat, the guards return to the church double-time. 

? THE EDGE (c)F WAR ? 

Once again the PCs find themselves in a situation where they 
don't fully understand what's going on. They've been bobbed, 
that's for certain, but by whom? The Signers? Daniphe? The 
Athar? The heroes may decide that they've had enough and 
refuse to have any further involvement with the situation. If 
the PCs just walk away from it all, they later hear that a large 
battle took place between the Athar and the Signers (see 
"Avoiding the Issue," below). 

If curiosity gets the better of them, however, or if they re 
turn to the scene to find the berks who used them as a dis 
traction to break into the church, read: 

A block s pi reward of the old church, just off of Ironmon 
ger Street . you hear the sounds of combat. Cries of pain, an 
guish . and fear mix with the thud of arrows striking wood and 
the clang of steel against steel. Moving closer, you see Athar 
guardsmen firing crossbows into the windows of a tavern 
you 've become familiar with recently: the Ubiquitous Way- 
farer. Two Athar guards - one with severe wounds -pee out 
of the open front door, which then slams and locks behind 
them . 

A stalemate quickly results, with Mhavor and a band of 
his Signers trapped inside the tavern and the Athar refusing 
to give up their quarry. The Defiers don't have enough bash 
ers on hand to storm the place, especially since they know 
that the Signers have a powerful wizard on their side (Mha 
vor's spells aren't primarily offensive, but the Athar don't re 
alize that). The Athar forces watching the tavern include 11 
warriors, a 4th-level wizard (a transmuter), and Ghear, who 
tends to his injured comrade. 


? 144 ? 




1 

1 

.11 



J 



i i 




/ A v\\\a^ 

. .. ^vsjnjl \"3 

wiy 



/fiw / XJ^ffiSnlN 


K : V \ \^vW V ^ 

9 / f^fflL 


N. C 7 eK* . 'V/ 1 

x\ rs/ 

l flt$&ak 

W Jpki -X i i \* 

' I y 




'v 

. ¦• A tsJV wj$ I , / \'5- 

r 42"^L^"tisa)fT^j 

\ 1 )j2r^ 







































































Eight members of the Way of the One (including Mha- 
vor) hide within the Wayfarer, a few with serious wounds 
from crossbow bolts. They don't have a priest 
with them, so their injuries remain un 
tended for the duration 
of this situation. Two 
of the Signer warriors 
have the 

W(c) N '+ F! G H + 5K3 

BELIEFS, Mhavor's 

Y(c)u fly spells upon them, 

although one 
of the bashers is seriously in 
jured. What's more, the tavern's 
crowded with a number of pa 
trons, each an unknown quantity. 

Each side remains committed but leery about making the 
next move. The combatants must weigh their decisions care 
fully, for what happens next probably determines who wins 
the day. The PCs could turn the tide by helping either force. 
Thing is, neither the Athar nor the Signers immediately trust 
the bashers as allies since they both see the PCs (rightly or 
wrongly) as foes. 

With all that's happened previously and the ultimatums 
issued by both sides, canny bloods know that this public con 
flict could lead to an all-out faction war. Even if the PCs have 
no love for either faction, they must consider the wide-rang 
ing effects such a war would have on the City of Doors. 


I f Y(c)U 

F(c)R Y(c)UR 

WHA+ WILL 
FIGH+ F(c) R? 

- m H AV(r)R 


APPROACH I NG + HE A + HAR 


successful effort allows the trapped Signers to escape without 
further conflict. 

REACHING + H E SIGNERS 

To speak with the Signers, the PCs need to move inside the 
Ubiquitous Wayfarer. However, neither side in the standoff 
has any interest in letting them in. The Athar fear that the he 
roes will try to help the Signers, and the Signers assume that 
everyone outside wants to scrag them. 

The PCs may have access to spells or magical items that 
can facilitate their entrance, which makes that part of their 
job easy. Barring that, conventional means work just as well. 
Though the tavern has no back door, a side entrance leads to 
the kitchen, and a basement door gives access to the wine cel 
lar beneath the place. Refer to the map of the Ubiquitous 
Wayfarer on page 137. 

Both sides watch the kitchen entrance, since it's an obvi 
ous egress. The cellar door, however, remains unguarded. 
Those within the building aren't aware that the door exists, 
and those outside realize that the cellar doesn't connect to the 
interior of the tavern. However, sneaky bloods could slip 
through the cellar door and make their way into the tavern 
above by breaking or working their way through the wooden 
portion of the ceiling (the floor of the storeroom). Since no 
one's guarding the storeroom, this is a great means of sneak 
ing in unnoticed. 

Canny PCs may invent other methods. The DM should 
keep in mind that since the Athar know that some of their 
foes can magically fly, the Lost watch the roof as closely as 
possible. 


If the PCs decide to confront the Athar, they'd better do so 
carefully. The Lost are primed for combat, and they won't hes 
itate to fire on anyone they perceive as a threat. The charac 
ters will have a difficult time persuading Ghear and his men 
that they weren't part of the Signer plot to distract the Athar 
at the church. If they succeed, however, one of the trou 
bleshooters from Part One arrives and whispers to Ghear that 
the PCs had been seeking information about the church. This 
arouses the priest's suspicions again, and he threatens to 
scrag the heroes for the Harmonium if they don't leave the 
area immediately. 

Even if the PCs still manage to assure the Athar that 
they're only trying to help, the warriors can't be dissuaded 
from attacking the Ubiquitous Wayfarer. They have orders to 
eliminate intruders, particularly members of the Sign of One. 
The PCs might inform Ghear that the Signers inside the tavern 
are rogues who've broken away from the Sign of One, but the 
cleric points out that the Athar ultimatum includes all Sign 
ers, rogue or not. Besides, the Athar are fed up with the chal 
lenges to their Harmonium-backed authority and intend to 
make an example of this group. 

Alternately, the PCs could try to distract the Athar, or 
perhaps bob them into thinking that they must return to the 
church to protect it from a new threat. It's a long shot, but a 


INSIDE + HE 

UBI9UI+(c)US WAYEARER 

It won't come as a surprise that Riaen Blackhome, manager of 
the Ubiquitous Wayfarer, doesn't twig to the Signers dragging 
her tavern into their conflict. Bashers entering the establish 
ment observe a encounter between Riaen and Mhavor. 

An old man with one eye and a weak Icy confronts a 
stout woman with graying black hair. "Look, this is Sigilf he 
says. "The name of the place is the Ubiquitous Wayfarer. / can 
sense the portals here. Tell me the keys and endpoints /" 

"Pike itthe woman says. 'Td rather go to the leafless 
tree than help a bunch of berks like you. Now get out of my 
tavern ." 

Phol Nerris, Hulester, Vtyrgi Hammersmitt, Nherid, 
Barmy Kank, and Wilphesh Gidderskins (all from Part One) 
can be present in the tavern if the DM wishes. Some may op 
pose the Signers (like Hulester, in Riaen's defense) or help 
them (Nherid appreciates the chaos inherent in the trouble 
they're causing), though most remain neutral. 

Mhavor and his Signers are well aware that the PCs are 
the same berks who poked into their business earlier (in Part 


? 146 ? 



One). Regardless, if the characters approach the Signers by 
openly declaring their intention to help, Mhavor accepts them 
as temporary allies. He knows the situation's grim for his fol 
lowers, and he's not about to turn away offers of aid from any 
source. 

Bloods looking to defuse the tension probably realize 
that the only way to end the standoff is to remove the source 
of the conflict. The PCs may seize upon the idea of using a 
portal to extract the Signers from the tavern and the neigh 
borhood. Unless they have access to a warp sense spell, they'll 
probably have to negotiate with Riaen (and Hulester) for the 
portal keys. They can attempt to convince her that it's to her 
advantage to help the bashers who've invaded her tavern, 
which would end the standoff that's interfering with her busi 
ness. There's no guarantee, however, that the portals lead to 
suitable or safe places - and Mhavor won't lead his followers 
onto the plains of the Abyss or into Limbo's churning soup. 

Without using portals, removing the trapped Signers 
from the tavern requires clever tricks or quick thinking. A 
slim possibility exists that the PCs can convince the Signers to 
surrender peacefully. This avoids any further battle and al 
lows the Sign of One to acknowledge to all concerned that 
Mhavor and the Way of the One aren't working under the or 
ders of any high-ups. This solution means certain doom for 
Mhavor and the others, 
but it saves Sigil from 
faction war. (The trapped 
Signers won't make this 
sacrifice willingly, but 
smooth-tongued cutters 
might be able to 
peel them into 
it.) 

If the PCs 
don't reach a 
solution in a rea 
sonable amount of 
time (DM's discre 
tion), they may end 
up fighting alongside the 
Signers against a final 
Athar assault. Like cor 
nered animals, 

Mhavor's 
bashers are 
desperate and 
dangerous. 

While trapped in 
the tavern, 
they're pre 
pared to fight 
to the death. 


AVOIDING + H € ISSUE 

When the Athar first chase the Signers into the Ubiquitous Way 
farer and then surround the place, the PCs might just choose to 
stay out of everyone's way. If the heroes don't intervene (or if 
they try but fail to end the stalemate), the Athar launch an at 
tack before those trapped in the tavern can figure out a means 
of escape. This battle sends a number of bashers on both sides to 
the dead-book and threatens to spread throughout Sigil as the 
two factions become implacable enemies. 

Tensions in the Cage run extremely high as the Signers 
and the Athar prepare retaliatory strikes against each other. 
The Harmonium takes on the job of guarding the church (with 
much grumbling by the Athar) to help keep the peace. Things 
look grim. 

? Af+ € MT1A+ H ? 

If Mhavor and his followers escape, they discard their plans to 
enter the nameless church - and they're more than likely ap 
prehended by their fellow Signers for all the trouble they've 
caused. PCs who helped Mhavor and his bashers flee with a 
minimum of bloodshed earn the gratitude of the Sign of One 
and other factions interested in keeping the peace in 
Sigil. The Athar are none too happy, but they're too 
concerned with keeping the church safe to 
hold a grudge. They return to protecting 
the old place, more peery than ever be 
fore and not a little humiliated - 
especially when the Harmo 
nium insists on "supplement 
ing" the Athar guards with 
their own. 

'Course, if the PCs joined 
in on one side or the other 
during an actual fight, they 
gain definite enemies. 
Whichever faction they 
fought against will cer 
tainly look for revenge. 
To make matters worse, 
if the heroes helped the 
Signers fight off the 
Athar, the survivors 
from Mhavor's group 
then head into the church 
- and promptly disap 
pear, just like all the 
others before them. The 
PCs shouldn't be present 
if this happens, since 
they'll have their own 
chance to learn the 
dark of the church in 
Part Three. 
































How could he have foreseen those hashers' in 
volvement? He couldn't be expected to know what 
each and every cutter in the entire Cape was going 


Pact Thmc: 

fflYS+ERISS 
thc S+oNGS 


to do, could he? How was a body supposed to plan for 
such things? 

Well, Argesh Fiord wasn't about to have all of his 
schemes ruined on account of some meddlesome plane- 
walkers. Indeed not. 

He knew of several ways to eliminate the 
wild cards. But the best solution, the most fit 
ting solution. was to have his foes fall into 
the trap he'd already prepared. It had worked 
so well in the past. 

It was time to reactivate the Doom of the Stones. 


? BACK +(c) +HC CHURCH ? 

The last portion of this ride takes thc PCs into the old nameless church so hotly 
contested by the Athar and the rogue Signers. They finally learn the dark of the 
place and have the chance to eliminate the source of the conflict once and for 
all. As shown on the flowchart on the inside back cover, the conclusion to "Into 
the Light" can take place after Chapter VIII of "Out of the Darkness," or it can be 
set at any other time after Part Two. At least a little time should have passed 
since the PCs became actively involved in the conflict around the old church. 

Argesh Fiord, having noticed the player characters' involvement in the pre 
vious two parts of this adventure, decides to take care of the interlopers once 
and for all. He needs to confront them directly to set his plan in motion, but he 
figures it's worth the risk to prevent them from interfering again. 

Wherever the PCs happen to be, Argesh finds them and walks toward the 
group without hesitation. 

An older man, receding white hair crowning his head like a laurel, ap 
proaches you with a determined stride. He is simply clothed and carries no 
weapons. 

"Hello." he says. "My name is Argesh Fiord. I seek the destruction of the 
Athar, the Sign of One, and - quite possibly - the entire City of Doors. You 
stand in my way." 


ceme. 

(c)H L(c) R D, 

and BRING US C(c)(c)L 
RESPI + E FR(r)m +HE 
HARSH LIGH+ and 

CURSED HEA + 
(c)F YffiuR FA + H E R. 

- A B A D I Rl N € PRAYER 


Without a moment's pause, he looks you straight in the eye and says, 
"BadirYou know this to be a name, yet it sounds strange to your ears - unfa 
miliar in every ; way. Somehow. though, simply hearing it brings clarity. You are 
suddenly certain of what you must do and where you must go. You must travel 
to the nameless church without delay - although to your mind it is nameless no 
more. The Temple of Lost Badir calls to you with a force you cannot resist. 


Upon hearing the name of the dead god that "resides" within the old church, 
a geas suddenly compels the PCs to proceed there and speak the power's name. 
No saving throw or magic resistance can prevent them from completing that ac 
tion - the compulsion is backed by the power of a god (albeit a dead one). 


? 148 ? 



Argesh leaves immediately. 

He knows exactly what will happen when 
the PCs hear the god's name, and he also knows that 
he's safe from any action on their part. The sods must ig 
nore all else and reach the church as soon as possible. 


Once at the church, the PCs need to figure out a way to get inside. The same num 
ber of Athar guards are posted around the place as the PCs encountered previously, and 
the Harmonium has stationed troops here as well. The number of Hardheads (up to 10) 
depends on how badly things went in Part Two of this adventure. 

The compulsion demands that the PCs enter the church, but they still retain their own minds and can 
determine the best way in. In other words, they don't have to charge the front door; they can take some 
time to figure out and implement a plan. However, if they take longer than one hour, the compelling 
force 
intensifies to the point where the heroes must physically enter the church regardless of anything in the 


way. 


? thc Deem (c)f +hc s+eNts? 

Once the bashers enter the church, they're compelled to say the name "Badir." just like all of Argesh s 
other victims (namely, the workmen, the Harmonium investigators, and possibly even Mhavors Signers). 
Speaking the god's name triggers the Doom of the Stones. Read: 

All around you. everything grows still. You've never experienced such quiet - at least, not in Sigil. A 
strange mist rises around the standing stones that encircle you, illuminated hy a strange yellowish light. 
The stones seem to change shape, their new forms too indistinct to recognize. One stretches and scents 
to 
lunge forward ro grab yon. 

Suddenly, the ruined old church fades away, and you find yourselves in a different place. 

The dark of the disappearances and the PCs' forthcoming trials involves the power Badir and his last 
vestiges of divine might. See, when someone invokes his name within the circle of standing stones - 
stones carved from Badir's own corpse - the speaker (and anyone else in the circle) is suddenly drawn 
into 
a complex dreamworld derived from the god's memories. Each of the five stones contains a fragment of 
Badir's memories and essence. Though most folks who've entered the memories have been lost forever, 
the 
power's remaining fragmentary consciousness wants those who are drawn into the mental dramas to 
help 
him return to the Astral. He's hidden his own presence in Sigil as best as he could for centuries. But now 
that he's been found out, he has no desire to be the source of conflict among the factions, nor does he 
want his body to become a curiosity or tourist attraction. 

Thus, Badir encourages the PCs to enter the memory sequence stored in each of the five stones. Maps 
for the interior of the church and the memory scenes appear on the poster sheet (when fully unfolded). 
The 
DM should note that whatever occurs in Badir's memories is as real as "true" reality for the characters. If 
any of the PCs die in a scene, they die for real. When (and if) they emerge from each scene, any wounds 
they've suffered remain, any spells they've cast are gone from their minds, and so on. 

ARGESH AND +HE S+0NES 

Obviously, Argesh Fiord knows the god's name, so how did he avoid the Doom of the Stones himself? 
Luck, mostly. As a young adventurer. Argesh discovered the journal of a Nolite priest who'd come to Sigil 
and realized that the temple was constructed of Badir's petrified flesh. Before the Nolite could return to 
the 
Prime Material Plane to tell his fellow priests, he was killed by one of Sigh's many traps for the unwary. 

From the journal, Argesh learned that Nol was the name of a sun god worshiped on the Prime. Nol's 
son Badir, however, was a power of wind and rain, and therefore antithetical to his tyrannical father. 
Thus, 
across the Prime, Nol's followers waged war against Badir's followers, thereby denying the wind deity of 
the worship he needed to sustain his godly status. Eventually, Badir died. 


? 149 ? 


Though Argesh knew Badir's name, he was unaffected by 
the geas that took hold of everyone else who heard it. Fact is, 
Argesh learned of the geas only when he mentioned his dis 
covery to a friend; the berk immediately became glassy-eyed, 
walked to the old church, entered it, and disappeared, never to 
be seen again. Argesh realized then that he'd discovered some 
thing unique in all of Sigil. He also reasoned that since he'd 
learned Badir's name from the Nolite's journal, he was some 
how protected from the geas by a power that Nol must have 
bequeathed his priests to resist the might of the hated Badir. 

Argesh used the name on the workmen who came to de 
molish the church. Later, hidden by his cloak of invisibility, he 
did the same to the Harmonium investigators. Now it's the 
PCs' turn. 

THE FIKS+ S + 0NE 

As soon as the PCs enter the church and say "Badir," they 
vanish from the real world and enter the memories of the first 
stone. Where are they now? The answer lies in fading remem 
brances from the mind of a dead god. 

Before anything else, you hear the voices . Out of the im 
penetrable darkness, the sound of hundreds of people chant 
ing, praying, and pleading rises into the air Each indistinct, 
individual voice joins a chorus of worshipers praying for help, 
begging for blessings, or giving thanks and praise. The veil of 
darkness parts and you see heavily robed men and women on 
their knees in what appears to be a stark temple. You kneel 
among them in a robe - yes. even a body - that is not your 
own. 

The PCs have assumed personas that belong in this mem 
ory. In the past, worshipers of Badir prayed to him in modest 
stone temples, and the PCs have taken the forms of suppli 
cants of the deity. The damp, cold air is a clue that the temple 
is deep underground. All of the people present are swarthy 
humans with wind-blown lines in their faces - a desert folk. 

The worshipers face a tall idol of a dark, muscular man 
with extraordinarily handsome and regal features. The PCs 
hear (and understand) the prayers of the people to their god 
Badir, Lord of the Cool Wind and the Rare Blessing of Rain, 
the Scion of Father Sun Nol. 

If the PCs don't begin likewise praising Badir, or if they 
act suspiciously in any way (such as yelling out, "What in the 
Lady's name is going on here?), the other worshipers eye them 
peerily. If the heroes' strange behavior continues, 10 wor 
shipers draw forth long curved knives and throw the PCs into 
a back room. These supplicants are surprisingly proficient in 
combat (as 5th-level fighters). Not all of Badir's worshipers 
were truly this skilled, but the god's memory isn't always 
firmly grounded in reality. 

Although the player characters now inhabit different 
bodies, they retain their standard ability scores, skills, spells, 
and innate abilities. Unfortunately, they have none of their 
own equipment (including spell components), but only the 


same robes and curved knives as the other worshipers. Nor 
can they leave the temple by any means, including spellcast 
ing. Escape isn't that easy. 

The Badirines won't understand if the PCs attempt to ex 
plain their strange predicament. Quick-thinking characters 
might invent a tale to explain why they're acting so strangely 
to diminish the worshipers' suspicions. 

Whether the PCs are tossed into the back room or enter it 
willingly, there they find two living bashers standing among a 
number of recently slain corpses whose throats have been cut. 
Both men are garbed in the same brown robes as everyone else. 
One has a knife to the other's neck, who pleads: "No, just let me 

go back to Sigil... please don't kill me_'' When the heroes 

appear, he yells: "I'm not supposed to be here! I'm just a sod 
ding workman. They killed all the others! What happened to 
Arbor Road and the whole sodding Lower Ward?" 

This berk is one of the workmen hired by Cruigh Man- 
athas to tear down the old church. He was drawn here just like 
the PCs were, and he's seen his companions killed, as well as 
some cutters that showed up after him (the Harmonium inves 
tigators). The PCs can attempt to save the captive from his ob 
viously dire fate, but they hear the other Badirines outside the 
room discussing whether or not to finish the heroes off. 
They've got to do something quick or they'll all end up as 
corpses on the temple floor. Even though this is a memory, 
death here is very real. 

At this point, canny PCs should understand that what 
they're experiencing must come from the mind of Badir. Any 
realization to that effect, whether the bashers fully grasp 
what's happening or merely believe that the scene's not real, 
allows them to see through the memory. As a last resort, the 
DM may call for Wisdom checks at -2 if players don't role- 
play or if they fail to make the connection. 

Once the heroes reach that understanding, they experi 
ence a clarity of perception. A voice in their minds says: 
"Badir is a gentle, loving god. He does not wish bloodshed 
committed upon his own." If the PCs relay this message to the 
worshipers, the Badirines suffer a fit of religious guilt, fall 
down before the characters, and plead, "Ask the Rainmaker to 
forgive us! We are sorry for our sins." 

With that, the scene fades, and the PCs find themselves 
returned to the old church (along with the workman, if he still 
lives). Wounds sustained in the memory are still present, but 
nothing physical - like the knives - can be brought back. 
However, a jewel the color of a red desert sunset is set into the 
forehead of the cutter who first realized the connection be 
tween Badir and the memory. 

THE SEC(c) N D S + 0NE 

A tugging sensation pulls the party toward another stone. If 
the PCs try to leave the church instead, Badir speaks again in 
their minds: "I can bring an end to all conflicts." Again the 
characters feel the pull. If they move toward the second stone, 
the mist rises again, the stones take on indistinct shapes, and 
the heroes disappear. 


? 150 ? 



Bright, blinding light scars your eves and your body , hut 
you feel no pain. When the light dims, you again find yourself 
in a body that is not your own . You stand inside a palatial 
home - golden decorations and marble pillars Jill your vision. 
A small boy. dark hair tied in a topknot and dark-skin drip 
ping with jewelry and body paint, runs down the opulent halls 
of the palace crying for his mother. Nearby..you stand at the 
ready, your dark, muscular frames covered in ornate armor, 
powerful magical weapons in your hands. But are you the 
child's guardians or his murderers? 


This memory arises from Badir's life as a child-god 
in the palace of his father, the sun god Nol. 
The PCs play the roles of palace guards. 
Young Badir runs tearfully to the arms of 
his mother Senarine, a human 
woman. As before, the heroes are 
unable to leave the confines 
of the scene. 

The child's cries are overwhelmed 
by a deafening voice that echoes through 
out the palace. *This youth will come to 
no good. He is a curse upon me. not a 
Messing* He represents forces that 
thwart me - the wind, the shade, 
the rain. These are not the 
' th ings of Nol! The child must be 
destroyed /" 

Suddenly, the wall opposite the 
PCs collapses. A bronze dragon that 
glowsjike the sun smashes its way 
through, intent on killing 
the young godling. 

The heroes must make a 
choice. If they do nothing, the 
dragon easily slays the boy 
(which didn't happen in re- 
' . * ality) and the memory 

ends. The characters 
reappear in the 
church in Sigil, and the 
adventure ends for them with 
out resolution. 

However, if the cutters try 
to save young Badir, they must 
hold off the dragon long 
enough for the child and his 
mother to escape. Again, each 
- hero has his own skills and 
spells, with a few subtle 
differences: * 


? Fighters now wear 
banded mail +2 
and carry a bas 
tard sword -h3 in 
their hands. Even if 
they don't normally have 
the bastard sword profi 
ciency, they do for the du 
ration of this scene. 

















? Wizards and priests retain their own spellcasting capa 
bilities but find themselves garbed in heavy robes 
(robes of protection +3) covered with the wind and rain 
symbols of Badir. In addition, each knows one addi 
tional spell. Mages may cast gust of wind and priests 
may cast fly once per day, regardless of the characters' 
actual levels. These extra spells disappear from their 
memories at the end of the scene. 

? Rogues are now armed with scimitars +3 and dressed 
in leather armor +3, 

The dragon refrains from using 
its breath weapon and only attacks 
those who directly prevent it from reach 
ing Badir - it has no desire to slay anyone but the godling. 

If, as before, a PC attempts to see through the veil of 
memory, he hears Badir's adult voice in his mind: 

"What is the sun. without shade in which to rest or a 
breeze to cool the skin? It is an oppressor . What is the sun. 
without rain to nourish the earth? It is a destroyer!" 

These words, if repeated aloud, accomplish nothing (the 
same trick never works twice, berk). Unlike the worshipers of 
the previous memory, the dragon reveres the sun god Nol. In 
this scene, the PCs must be willing to fight to protect the 
young god - knowing full well that they're outmatched by 
the dragon's might and could be killed. The sacrifice allows 
Badir and his mother to escape the palace. 

If the bashers manage to slay the dragon, or if they all 
perish in the attempt, they appear back in the church in Sigil. 
The hero who fought most bravely against the dragon now 
sports a red gem in his brow. Characters who died in the battle 
find themselves alive again, though they retain half the dam 
age they suffered during the fight. 

N( Usually, if a PC dies in a memory sequence, he's 
dead for real. This scene is an exception. 

THE THIRD S + 0NE 

As before, the PC feel another pull, this time toward the third 
stone. But Badir no longer compels them. If they don't wish to 
proceed further, that's up to them. ('Course, the adventure'll 
be over....) 

If the heroes move toward the stone, they find that their 
surroundings shift again. 

From the high ridge upon which you now wait , you see 
miles of dune-covered terrain. The landscape is blanketed by 
thousands of troops, banners held high, preparing to cross the 
narrow gulf between them and clash in violent concert. The 
well-groomed horses beiteath you shift as trumpets and war 
cries split the air. Again you find yourselves in the armor-clad 
hodirs of u a rrio rs of Budi r. 


In this memory, Badir's followers defend their lands 
against the hordes of the sun god Nol. Nol still seeks the death 
of his son and all that he stands for. Thus, Nolites on many 
prime-material worlds seek the genocidal destruction of all 
who worship Badir. 

The characters now inhabit the forms of soldiers in the 
Badirine army. Each sits astride a horse. Warriors and rogues 
wear chain mail armor and are armed with lances, scimitars, 
and shields. Mages and clerics wear heavy robes, have a full 
complement of spell components, and are armed with appro 
priate weapons. The PCs wait and watch with a cavalry unit 
of 100 men (3rd-level fighters) atop a high ridge. 

In the distance, the two armies clash. First the sky above 
the troops grows dark with hail after hail of arrows. Scores of 
figures, tiny in the distance, fall under this onslaught. When 
the charging armies finally meet face to face, however, the 
real carnage begins. As the characters watch, hundreds die in 
a horribly bloody battle. 

Then the order to attack comes from behind the PCs. Their 
fellow warriors shout praises to Badir as they spur their mounts 
down the ridge. If the heroes ride alongside them, each charac 
ter becomes the target of an enemy archer (THACO 17) upon 
reaching the bottom of the ridge. After that, they're driven on 
by the mass of their fellow cavalrymen and their mounts - 
straight into a shield wall of Nolite soldiers (3rd-level fighters). 

The enemy stands waiting for your charge. They hide be 
hind shields emblazoned with the image of the burning sun. 
Their foreheads each bear the mark of a pitiless yellow sun of 
a cloudless sky at noon, and their eyes gleam with the mania 
cal hatred stirred up by religious fervor. The look they give you 
promises death - either yours or theirs. 

If the characters refuse to charge into battle, those 
around them shout: "Cowards! Badir has no place for such as 
you at his feasting table!" The Badirines then fall upon the 
PCs for their infidelity to the god. 

Seeking clues beyond the curtain of memory at this point 
achieves nothing. No matter what, the PCs can't sense any 
thing beyond the smell of blood and the sounds of weapons 
clashing and men dying. Battle is inevitable, whether they 
fight the enemy or their comrades - this is a war. 

Each character should face at least two foes. However, by 
the time they kill or disable their opponents, they find that the 
fight has changed completely. The battle lines have shifted 
with the intensity of the conflict. Smoke and writhing masses 
of troops disorient the PCs until they're completely cut off 
from their own forces. In fact, for the moment, they're iso 
lated from the entire battle. 

Now clear of distractions, the heroes can attempt to see 
past the memory images around them. As before, they hear 
Badir's voice speaking in their minds. 

"In war. people die. A god accepts such violence in his 
name. It is neither good nor evil, but simply the way of things. 
Yet so much death is unjust and proves nothing. Without rite 


? 152 ? 


deration of my people, cursed Nal shall win the day. and his 
sun mil heat down mercilessly, unquenched hy cool winds and 
healing rain. The fighting must stop; not all need die. I here 
must he something to win when the buttle is done - and 
someone to appreciate the victory ." 

As before, Badir's words provide a clue to what the PCs 
should do next. Now that the battle has receded, the charac 
ters notice wounded folks lying all around them. The cutters 
should make an effort to help the wounded Badirine soldiers 
so that they cam live on and continue to serve their power. 
Curative spells, bandaging, and other methods will lend suc 
cor to these poor sods. 

At this point, however, 10 Nolite berserkers (5th-level 
fighters) charge into the area. These savage skirmishers try to 
kill everyone they see, including the wounded. The PCs 
should protect the injured and fend off the assailants. 

Once the wounded are safe, the heroes return to the old 
church in Sigil. The character who proved most helpful to the 
fallen Badirine troops has a red jewel in his forehead, just like 
his comrades before him. 


THEF0UR+H S+0NE 

The PCs now feel the pull toward the fourth standing stone, but, 
as before, they aren't compelled to proceed. If they do, read: 

This transition is different from the rest. This time, you 
ha tv no bodies, and you instinctively know that you re dead. 
As ghosts, vou look upon one who obviously will be dead soon 
as well. The crumbling palace around you mirrors its sole oc 
cupant, a man who withers away before your eyes. Dark hair 
groics gray and falls out of his head, and his healthy dusk- 
colored skin shrivels and wrinkles . Never before have you seen 
anyone who seemed so utterly , , , alone. 

In this memory sequence, the PCs are present as Badir 
withers and passes into the dead-book. Unfortunately, they 
can't seem to do anything but watch the death-throes of a 
god. If they look beyond the shroud of memory, they hear 
Badir's sorrowful voice in their minds: 

M Forsaken. I am lost. To full from such a lofty* height to 
this abysmal depth in so short a time - it is an ordeal no 
being should endure. I leave the mulriverse, my rains 
quenched, my winds becalmed into nothingness. . . . The end 
comes quickly , hut nor quickly enough. My father cursed me 
as I was born, and my mother is dead , . . must I die alone? 





As ghostly apparitions, the PCs can move through walls 
and other objects intangibly. They can freely explore the 
crumbling citadel that was once the home of an im 
mortal power. Many chambers away, lying 
in the anteroom next to a once- 
opulent bedchamber, 
the heroes find a 
weeping young 

n m q n 


l 





THE flf + H S + (c) N E 


This time, the characters feel a pull toward the fifth stand 
ing stone. If they move toward it, they enter a memory 
scene in which Badir's followers create the stones out of their 
patron's corpse. 


Her name is Yanthis (PI/9 half-elf/O-level/LN), and she used 
to be a handmaiden to Renishana, one of Badir's proxies. 
Young Yanthis is still hopelessly devoted to the power that her 
mistress served, and even now she feels his death as if it were 
her own. 

Until the ghostly PCs talk to her, she's not even aware of 
their presence. Not surprisingly, Yanthis is terrified of the 
ghosts at first, but she does not flee. Once she's calm, the char 
acters can ask her questions. She tells them about herself, if 
they've got a mind to listen to her rattle her bone-box. She's a 
planar half-elf who was born on Arborea, where she claims this 
palace stands now. More importantly, she explains that after 
millennia of fighting, the forces of the sun god Nol have suc 
ceeded in putting most of Badir's worshipers to the sword. 
Worse, the constant religious wars and threats of violence have 
discouraged any others who might have followed the power. 
Without numerous worshipers, Badir is dying as surely as if 
someone had placed a knife between his ribs. 

The power's death has been a slow, painful one. As 
Badir's followers fell, the energy of their belief winked out 
like snuffed candles. As whole prime-material worlds were 
lost to his influence, Badir grew weaker and weaker, and the 
god now suffers in his last moments of life. 

The PCs should realize from Badir's words that he be 
lieves all his worshipers slain. If they're sensitive enough to 
understand the levels of the dying god's pain, they know that 
even a single mourner is one more than he thought he had. 
They should attempt to convince Yanthis to go to Badir and 
be with him in his last moments. This, at least, would offer 
him some small comfort. 

Yanthis is reluctant at first. After all, she's just a lowly 
mortal, not even a priest - how can she give solace to a god? 
Nevertheless, if the PCs are successful and Yanthis goes to 
Badir's side, the dying god smiles through the pain at her love 
and devotion. It isn't enough to sustain him, but it gives him 
consolation as he dies. 

With this, the PCs return to the old church, once again 
standing in the center of the ring of stones. The cutter who 
best convinced Yanthis to help Badir has a red jewel in his 
forehead. 


The bleak, empty void that sur 
rounds you with its silvery hue and 
winding conduits could only he 
the Astral Plane . A dozen or 
more other Astral travelers 
silently float in the void . 
heading as one toward a 
common goal . 


Ahead of you. the gigantic form of a man made of stone 
drifts like an empty shell . His rocky, petrified features arc un 
mistakably those of the god Badir - the one you saw die in the 
crumbling palace. 

The plancwalkcrs who approach this god-isle do so with 
silent reverence. Arriving upon the massive husk, they with 
draw tools from their packs with equal respect. Suddenly, the 
sound of metal against stone rings through the void. Solemnly, 
reverently, these men and women hack apart the corpse of the 
god. 


Badir isn't just any god - he's their god. These folks're 
the last remaining worshipers of the dead deity. They're 
dressed and armed like those dusky-skinned desert folk en 
countered in the first stone's memory. Likewise, the PCs find 
themselves once again in brown robes and armed only with 
the picks and axes that the other worshipers carry. The 
Badirines won't answer any questions the heroes might 
have - fact is, too many questions, 
and they'll try to silence the PCs for 
good. 

If at any time a charac 
ter seeks to peer beyond the 
trappings of the memory, he 
again hears Badir's voice, 
though now it 
seems distant 
and soft. 





"They seek to preserve what was taken from them. Are 
their actions correct? Who can truly make such a judgment? 
Good and evil, law and chaos - these things may he defined. 
Right and wrong, correct and incorrect - whoever may know 
the truth of them? 

"Which of my choices was wrong? Which decision led to 
my downfall? I do not know, yet I was once a god. How , then, 
can I - or anyone -judge these poor souls? 

"Let them do as they will." 

This is the strangest of the memory scenes, for the "correct" 
course of action is to do nothing. By watching, however, the PCs 
bear witness to the last acts of the god's worshipers. The 
Badirines slice out huge chunks of their deity's body and begin 
to carve them. The shaping of the stones occurs unnaturally fast 
(a flaw in the god's memories), and soon the heroes see the 
standing stones from the old church finished in front of them. 

Still saying nothing, not daring to profane their actions 
with words, the worshipers silently float the stones toward a 
waiting portal. After they all pass through the portal, the 
player characters appear back in the church, standing in the 
center of the stone circle. One of the PCs (DM's choice) has a 
red jewel resting in his brow. 

THC SIX+H S + 0NC 

Before the PCs can do anything, they feel a rumble and a 
shudder from beneath them. A sixth, previously unseen stone 
pushes its way up through the center of the floor. Without 
warning or a chance to resist, the heroes are forced to enter 
the last of the memory scenes. 

Though you know you've once again passed into the god s 
memories, your surroundings seem to be unchanged. You stand 
within the old church that's been the source of so much con 
flict of late. Things feel much the way they did when you left 
the "real'' world, but something about the stones is different. 

As in the other memories, the PCs can't leave the bound 
aries of the scene (the church). The Athar and Harmonium 
guards outside seem utterly oblivious to the arrival of the 
sixth stone, and the heroes can't communicate with them in 
any way. Other than that, the characters seem to be in their 
own bodies, with their own possessions. 

If the PCs attempt to sense the reality behind the mem 
ory, they hear Badir's voice in their mind one last time. 

"Like all things, a life is a ring - a unity of rings that 
brings one back where he started. Birth, life, and death are a 
constant cycle spinning through the ring of existence. No por 
tion of the ring should be avoided or mourned - each is as im 
portant and as worthy as the others. Look closely at what ivas. 
and you'll see what will be." 

Each of the five original standing stones now bears a 
tiny indentation visible only to someone examining them 


closely. These small notches are just the right size to hold the 
red gems that rest in the characters' foreheads. 

Before they can place the gems, however, the bashers're 
interrupted by the white-haired man who sent them to the 
church in the first place: Argesh Fiord. He bursts into the 
building, accompanied by a green slaad mercenary, and the 
two attack the PCs mercilessly. 

Strangely, this isn't a memory. In fact, it hasn't happened 
yet. It's a kind of future memory - a premonition. In "real" 
time, Argesh even now makes his way to the old church with 
a green slaad minder. He wants to make sure that the Doom of 
the Stones did indeed take care of the PCs; he can then deter 
mine the best next step to provoke the faction war. Neverthe 
less, the memory versions of Argesh and the slaad fight as if 
they were real. 

Once the PCs best their foes, they can place their gems 
into the standing stones. This act frees Badir from his impris 
onment. By placing the gems, the heroes create a mystical 
resonance among the stones, opening a horizontally oriented 
portal defined by the remaining walls of the church. The por 
tal leads back to the Astral and the body of Badir. 

Golden light shines everywhere. The ground shudders as 
if in a rumbling earthquake, though there's really no "earth" 
to quake in Sigil. The entire floor of the church glows like an 
activated portal, and the stones and the ruins begin to tumble 
downward into what looks like the Astral Plane. In a sudden 
shaft of bright illumination, the silhouette of a fine-featured 
man turns toward you. nods, and walks straight into the por 
tal's light. 

As the world literally drops out from beneath the PCs, 
they, too, begin to fall. However, before they plunge through 
the portal, they return to reality at the center of the church. 
But as in the future-memory scene they just played out, the 
building has vanished. The stones, the ruins, the foundation, 
everything is gone - almost as if it never existed at all. 

Immediately, the guards who were positioned around the 
church rush onto the ground where the building stood only 
moments before. Once the Athar tumble to what's actually 
happened, however, they're extremely pleased. They wanted 
the stones gone, and now they don't have to expend the effort 
to do it themselves. The PCs are suddenly heroes in the eyes of 
the Athar - a position in which they may not be entirely 
comfortable. 

Canny bashers probably won't be surprised to see the real 
Argesh Fiord arrive with a green slaad bodyguard. However, 
that doesn't mean the heroes have to fight them again. In fact, 
Argesh has no intention of sticking around to exchange blows 
once he knows his plot has failed. He takes one look and 
leaves the scene as quickly as possible. Besides, even if he and 
his minder could put the whole lot of guards and heroes into 
the dead-book, what would that accomplish? Argesh wants 
revenge on the Athar and the Sign of One. He's not about to 
waste his time fighting with a handful of berks, no matter 
how utterly they've just ruined his plans. Instead, Argesh 


? 155 ? 


takes this horrible set-back in stride and flees to begin plan- throughout the planes. If the characters are 
interested, this 
ning a new scheme for revenge. could be the springboard for other adventures. 


? RCS0|.U + l(c)NS ? 


LINGERING QUES + I(r) NS 



Canny bloods might still wonder about Badir and the old 
church. It's common chant that the Lady of Pain doesn't allow 
powers into Sigil, yet part of Badir's consciousness resided in 
the Cage. (Granted, he was dead, but still. . . .) Was the Lady 
unaware of him? Did she send the dabus to investigate? Did 
she care at all? Or is she more limited in her power than folks 
suspect? 

Some berks say that Badir's remains were exempt from 
the ban because he'd been in Sigil longer than the Lady, im 
plying that there was a time when the City of Doors was not 
her home. But since no one can put a date on the church's 
construction, that's impossible to determine. (No one knows 
when the Lady of Pain showed up either, for that matter.) 
Others rattle their bone-boxes about spells and potent magic 
that allow mortals to act without the Lady's knowledge, but 
most folks just back away slowly and look peerily over their 
shoulders when they hear addle-coves spout such obvious 
nonsense. 

The whole incident raises more questions than it an 
swers. Such is the way of mysteries in the Cage and through 
out the planes; no one can ever know all of the multiverse's 
secrets. Most folks are just glad that the tensions have abated 
in the City of Doors. But wiser heads know there's no telling 
when the quiet faction skirmishes of the Cage will erupt into 
an all-out war, bringing Sigil to its very knees.... 


With the temple gone, tensions between the factions begin to 
smooth over. The Athar reassign their guards and retract their 
ultimatums toward the Signers. There's nothing to fight over 
now, right? Likewise, the Signers declare that they have no 
quarrel with the Athar. (If they haven't done so already, fac 
tion high-ups scrag Mhavor and his followers and make them 
pay the music for the trouble they've caused.) Peace is re 
stored to the City of Doors, at least for the moment. 

Argesh Fiord may very well be planning a new scheme, 
although now - assuming the PCs told someone about his ex 
istence and involvement - he's a wanted man. The DM may 
even want the heroes to learn of his background, so they can 
understand a little more of what he was after and why. They 
can tumble to his history by piecing together various bits of 
information from Athar and Signer sources, or meet a few of 
the folks who know the dark of Argesh's 
hatred for the factions. 

Folks talk about the disappearing 
church for a while, but the whole in 
cident quickly passes from their 
minds - memory's a funny thing. 
The Athar remember better than 
most, however, and offer the 
PCs an advance of 800 gp each 
if they take on some coven 
temple-bashing assignments 









VISAGE 


Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
AnrvnY Cycle: 
Dieti : 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 


Any 

Very rare 
Solitary 
Any 
None 

High (13-14) 
Nil 

Chaotic evil 


No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hn Dice: 

THACO: 

No. of A hacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Dfflnsfs: 

Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


ld4 

0 

FI 15 (A) 

6 

15 

2 

Id8/ld8 (claw/claw) 

Lucidity control, domination 
Hit only by +1 or better weapons, 
immune to holy water 
25o/o 

M (6' tall) 

Elite (13-14) 

4,000 


What is real? Ask any two berks, especially those from differ 
ent factions, and a body's likely to get two completely differ 
ent answers. Find a cutter that's faced a visage, though, and 
the answer might be a little strange. 

See, a visage is a creature of deception. It assaults per 
ceptions, steals identities, and crushes wills. Nightmarish 
Fiends of insidious power, visages are - thankfully - ex 
tremely rare. Fact is, they're found only in the service of the 
deity now known as Tenebrous. Visages are undead tanar'ri, 
former servants of Tenebrous brought back by the evil god's 
influence over all things undead. 

Visages can assume other shapes (as explained below), 
but in their natural form, they appear as wispy, translucent 
spirits with frightening white masks where their heads should 
be. They have no legs, but instead float or fly through the air 
at will. Despite their noncorporeal appearance, visages are 
solid. They can't pass through walls or objects, though they 
can Fit through tiny spaces too small for a human of equal 
size. 

Visages communicate through speech. Most know the 
common tongue, as it helps them move surreptitiously 
through society, and they pick up any languages spoken by 
those whose essences they steal (as explained below). 


(i aiha'i A body could say that in battle, a visage strikes with its 
razor-sharp claws. That's a true statement, but it's also danger 
ously misleading - the claws are the least of a sod's worries. 
Visages warp minds in ways that no other creatures really can. 
Sure, plenty of berks create illusions (the baatezu're experts at 
it), but a visage can twist a body's mind, making him think 


what it wants him to think and experience what it wants him to 
experience. The undead Fiend uses a number of tricks to force a 
false perception of reality on its victim. 

First and foremost, a visage wields a strange power that 
graybeards call lucidity control. The Fiend can reach into the 
mind of anyone it sees and change how he perceives the 
world around him. The visage totally controls the victim's 
senses, but it usually does so in subtle ways so the sod won't 
realize that he's being manipulated. As long as the victim is 
unaware of the visage's assault, he receives no saving throw 
against the effect. However, if he tumbles to the fact that 
something's playing with his mind, he can attempt a saving 
throw versus spell. Success indicates that the victim perceives 
things as they truly are, but he must continue to make suc 
cessful saving throws each round or fall back into the false 
reality created by the visage. 

To make it less likely that a sod'll realize his perceptions 
are being orchestrated, the undead Fiends often mix real expe 
riences with false ones. For example, a visage might artifi 
cially exaggerate perceived distances, make real objects ap 
pear to fall or move at inopportune times, change the way a 
building seems to be laid out, and so on. 

The thing to remember is that a visage loves to cause con 
fusion and fear. Sure, it could shut off a berk's senses entirely, 
but it'd much rather do something disorienting and strange. 
Then, when a victim can no longer trust his own eyes and ears, 
the fiend rakes with its claws or simply manipulates the sod 
toward a horrible end (maneuvering him into a pit, stirring up 
another creature to attack him, and so on). 

Unfortunately, a visage has other ways of assaulting 
minds, as well. Once per day, it can dominate a single target 
(as per the 5th-level wizard spell domination ), making him do 
and say whatever it likes. This requires a fair bit of concentra 
tion on the Fiend's part, though, so it can't use its domination 
and lucidity-control powers at the same time. But if two or 
more visages attack the same party, one often alters their per 
ceptions while the other dominates a victim to make the false 
reality seem more valid. 

Finally, a visage can assume a victim's very identity. See, 
when a visage kills someone, it can take on not only the cut 
ter's form but also pan of his essence. It almost perfectly imi 
tates his voice, affectations, skills, and the like. Sure, the vis 
age misses subtle mannerisms and quirks that a very close 
friend might notice, but the imitation can lend more weight to 
whatever false perceptions it tries to force on others. A visage 
in someone else's form can still use its lucidity-control and 
domination powers. 

Truth is, by taking a body's form and essence, the fiend 
can also cheat him out of another chance at life - and even 
his final reward. See, with his spirit gone, the victim can't be 
raised or resurrected, and he can't become a petitioner. That 
can be undone, but only if the visage is killed within one day 
of stealing the essence. If the fiend's still on the same plane as 
the victim, even better - the sod's chance for a successful res- 


? 158 ? 







urrection is doubled. But if the fiend voluntarily casts off the 
spirit (say, to take on another person's form), or if it holds 
onto the essence for longer than one day, the spirit withers 
away. The victim can't return to life, and he won't become a 
petitioner. He's just gone. 

Like many types of undead, visages are immune to sleep , 
charm , hold , magical fear, poison, paralyzation, and cold- 
based attacks. They can be struck only by magical weapons of 
+ 1 or better enchantment, and holy water does them no harm. 
They can be turned by clerics and paladins, but only on the 
"special" row. Visages have no connection to the Ethereal 
Plane. 

H i /S The only society these creatures have is 
one dedicated to serving the will of Tenebrous. With 
out him, they have no existence. Visages seem far 
too chaotic to have ranks; they treat each other as 
equals, taking orders only from their deity. Fact is, 
a visage has never been known to attack another 
of its kind, or display any feelings of rivalry or 
contempt for its brethren. That's not to say, how 
ever, that the undead fiends show loyalty to their 
own kind. On the contrary: Visages care nothing 
for one another's welfare. If it's time to flee a battle, 
a visage won't hesitate to turn stag on its fellows and 
give the situation the laugh. 

Visages can lurk anywhere in the multiverse, 
though the only habitat not alien to these twisted 
fiends is the Negative Energy Plane. However, 
chant says the only place they're found there is 
in a fortress called Tcian Sumere, now ru 
mored to be lost and adrift somewhere in the 
black void. But unlike other undead, visages 
have no special link to the Negative Energy 
Plane. Fact is, they have no real link to any 
thing in the cosmos except Tenebrous. 

I Despite having been created by a former 

Abyssal lord, the visages have no plare amortg the tanar'ri. 
They're recognized immediately by other fiends and attacked 
on sight. Lower-planar inhabitants fear and loathe these crea 
tures more than they do most other things - and that's saying 
a lot. See, most tanar'ri return to life when slain, albeit usu 
ally in a lesser form. But a visage is denied both rebirth into 
another shape and the eternal oblivion of a fiend's true death. 
The berks're slaves of the magic that spawned them, and that 
strikes fear in the dark hearts of the tanar'ri. 

How many visages did Tenebrous create? No one knows. 
But if the tanar'ri are so familiar with them, perhaps there are 
other means of spawning the undead fiends. And perhaps 
they've been around longer than folks think. Could it be that 
certain aspects of the multiverse are nothing but huge decep 
tions put forth by visages? Maybe entire Abyssal layers are 
hidden from discovery or camouflaged beyond recognition. 


Perhaps the fiends' influence is even more widespread. And 
perhaps it's all just barmy talk. 

Then again, if everyone believes in a false reality, doesn't 
it become true? In the end, isn't a body left with the question: 
What is real? 


? 159 ? 




S + A + IS + ICS 
(c)U + (c)f + H€ DARKNCSS 


CHAP + CK I: 

CIRCCAN € m B £ RS 

Kh \ (10 in Sigil, 68+ in Naphraks): AC 2 (bronze plate); 
MV 9; HD 3+3; hp 16 each; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg ld6/ 
1 d8+1 (bite/battle axe + Str bonus); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady 
(12); Int very (11); AL CN; XP 175 each. 

Notes: When mounted on giant lizard, khaasta gains +1 to hit 
foes on foot but loses ability to attack foes with bite. 

f<>n m \s|'H (khaasta chieftain): AC 2 (bronze plate); MV 9; HD 
6+6; hp 43; THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg ld6/ld 10+3 (bite/two 
handed sword + Str bonus); SZ M (7' tall); ML elite (14); Int 
very (12); AL CN; XP 650. 

Special Equipment: thief of charms (rod drains beauty 
from targets; see Chapter I for details; 10 charges left); silver 
Arcadian dovehawk feather (gate key). 

Notes: When mounted on giant lizard, toilmaster gains +1 to 
hit foes on foot but loses ability to attack foes with bite. 

Giam i.i/ai (10 on Outlands, 41 in Naphraks): AC 5; MV 15; 
HD 3+1; hp 14 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; SA double 
damage on attack roll of 20; SZ H (15' long); ML average (10); 
Int non (0); AL N; XP 175 each. 

Bivasiin |m imi hi i AC 0 (body), 2 (eyestalks), 7 (eyes); MV FI 
3 (B); HD 45-75 hp; hp 48; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (bite); 
SA eye powers; SD antimagic ray; SZ M (4' diameter); ML fa 
natic (18); Int exceptional (16); AL LE; XP 14,000. 

SA-10 eyestalks produce following effects: charm person, 
charm monster, sleep (1 target), telekinesis (250 lbs ),Jlesh to stone 
(30-yard range), disintegrate (20-yard range), fear (as wand), slow 
(1 target), cause serious wounds (50-yard range), death (1 target, 
40-yard range). 

SD-central eye produces antimagic ray (140-yard range, 90- 
degree arc in front of Blvastin). 

Personality: no-nonsense, businesslike, intolerant of 
non-beholders. 

Tausmin Ri;>i \k, PI/2 half-elf/F7,M6,T7/NE: AC 3 (bracers, 
Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 41; THACO 14; #AT 3/2 (broad sword) 
or 2 (short bow); Dmg 2d4 (broad sword) or ld6 (short bow); 
SA x3 backstab; SD infravision 60', 30% resistance to sleep 
and charm ; SZ M (5'4" tall); ML steady (12); XP 3,000. 

S 13, D 17, C 16, I 14, W 12, Ch 8. 

Personality: curious, self-centered, greedy. 

Special Equipment: bracers of defense (AC 6), boots of 
striding and springing, fiend globe (a one-use magical item 
that, when broken, summons a random fiend of minor status 
- in this case, a bar-lgura - to serve the user for one hour), 
12 doses of Type D poison (injected, ld2 minutes, 30/2d6) for 
her blade or arrows. 

Spells (4/2/2): 1st -change self color spray, magic mis 
sile, shield; 2nd -forget, invisibility; 3rd -delude, lightning 
bolt. 


Gi . (2): AC 6; MV 12; HD 6+2; hp 28, 27; THACO 15; 

#AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (bite); SA swallow foe whole; SZ L (7' and 8' 
long): ML average (9); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 420 each. 

Notes: On an attack roll of 19 or 20, iguana swallows a small 
sized foe whole (1/week). Unless he escapes, victim dies in a num 
ber of rounds equal to 7j of his Constitution score. From within, 
blunt weapons cause no damage to iguana, and stabbing or slash 
ing attacks cause 1 point of damage each. (Because these giant 
iguanas are smaller than standard specimens, they can't swallow 
man-sized foes whole.) 

11 . • U a) AC 2 (bronze plate); MV 

9; HD 8; hp 50; THACO 13 (12 with halberd); #AT 2; Dmg 
1 d6/1 d 10+4 (bit e/halberd + Str bonus); SZ L (8' tall); ML 
champion (16); Int very (12); AL CN; XP 975. 

Personality: imperious, possessive. 

Special Equipment: thief of charms (see entry above for 
toilmaster); halberd +2 (forged on the Prime; +1 in Naphraks). 

AC 5; MV 6; HD 2; hp 10; 
THACO 20; #AT 1; Dmg Id6 (bite); SW blind; SZ M (5'6" tall); 
ML elite (13); Int very (12) AL N; XP 175. 

Notes: The Wise One casts spells as a 5th-level cleric. 

SW-because of his blindness, the Wise One suffers a penalty 
to his attack roll, reducing it to 20. 

Personality: crafty, irascible. 

Spells (5/4): 1st -bless, cure light wounds (x2), curse, en 
tangle; 2nd-charm person or mammal, heat metal, hold per 
son, silence 15' radius. 


CHAP + ER II: CRUX 

V ' : P1/<J human/T4,F9/LE: AC -1 (bracers, ring, Dex 

bonus); MV 12; hp 64; THACO 12 (11 with Str, 9 with two- 
handed sword +2); #AT 3/2; Dmg Id 10+3 ( two-handed sword 
+2 + Str bonus); SA x2 backstab; SZ M (5'10" tall); ML fear 
less (20); XP 5,000. 

Notes: Veridis is a dual-classed character who began as a 
thief and now advances as a fighter. 

S 17, D 18. C 15, I 18, W 16, Ch 17. 

Personality: assured, shrewd, cunning, subtly manipula 
tive and often protective (if not actually compassionate) of 
the people of Crux. 

Special Equipment: invisible two-handed sword +2 
(forged on Astral; full strength on Yggdrasil), bracers of de 
fense (AC 4), ring of protection +2 (forged in Sigil; +1 on 
Yggdrasil). 

Thief Abilities: PP 20, OL 10, F/RT 10, MS 83, HS 82, DN 
45, CW 90, RL 38. 

M V , PI/ 9 human/P9(Yggdrasil)/NG: AC 6 (shield, Dex 
bonus); MV 12; hp 49; THACO 16(14 with wooden cudgel +2); 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6+2 (wooden cudgel +2); SZ M (5'8" tall); ML 
elite (14); XP 2,000. 

Notes: Marius is a druid (of a sort), with a +2 save bonus vs. 
fire and electrical attacks and the ability to shapechange (2/day) 
into an animal indigenous to Yggdrasil (bird, beetle, boar, etc.), but 
no other special druid powers. 

S 9, D 16, C 12,1 10, W 17, Ch 12. 
Personality: friendly, devoted to Ygg 
drasil. 


Thief Abilities: PP 65, OL 50, F/RT 40, MS 65, HS 
55, DN 30, CW 90, RL 35. 




Special Equipment: wooden cudgel +2, wooden shield +2 
(both created on Yggdrasil). 

Spells (6/6/4/2/1): \st-command (x2), cure light wounds, 
entangle, sanctuary, shillelagh; 2nd- barkskin, enthrall, heat 
metal, hold person, silence l 5' radius, warp wood: 3rd -dispel 
magic, plant growth, protection from fire, spike growth: 4th- 
cure serious wounds, plant door; 5th-pass plant. 

Ratatosk (5+): AC 6; MV 9, FI 15 (D), Cl 12; HD 2; hp 8 each; 
THACO 19; #AT 2; Dmg Id4/ld4 (claw/claw); SA swoop, 
taunt ; SD dodge; SZ S (4' tall); ML unsteady (6); Int low (6); 
AL CG; XP 175 each. 

SA-swoop from above and inflict double damage; insults 
taunt (as the spell) foes of low Intelligence or greater who fail to 
save vs. spell. 

SD-when airborne, a ratatosk can dodge a missile that would 
normally hit by rolling its current hit points or less on Id20. 

GuttfkeyE: (ratatosk priest): AC 6; MV 9, FI 15 (D), Cl 12; HD 
3; hp 19; THACO 19; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg Id4/ld4 (claw/claw) or 
ld6 (wooden cudgel); SA swoop, taunt; SD dodge; SZ M (5' 
tall); ML average (10); Int average (10); AL CG; XP 650. 

Notes: As a priest of Yggdrasil, Glittereye casts spells as 
a 6th-level priest. 

SA, SD-see stats for ratatosk, above. 

Personality: morose, depressed, and peery. 

Spells (3/3/2): lst-cwre light wounds, detect evil, shille 
lagh: 2nd -heat metal, trip, warp wood: 3rd -protection from 
fire, summon insects, 

Pentadrone (modkun): AC 3; MV 18; HD 5+5; hp 29; THACO 
15; #AT 5; Dmg Id4+4(x5); SA paralysis gas; SD struck only 
by +1 or better weapons, double human senses, infravision 
180', immunities, save bonus; SZ M (5' tall); ML fearless (20); 
Int very (12); AL LN; XP 2,000. 

SA-once every five turns (but no more than five times per 
day), pentadrone can emit a stream of gas 2 feet in diameter and 5 
feet in length; any creature caught in gas must save vs. paralysis or 
be immobilized for Five rounds. Alternately, pentadrone can use 
gas to levitate (as the spell). 

SD-immune to illusions, magic that affects the mind or emo 
tions, and attacks that draw upon the Positive or Negative Energy 
Planes (including life-draining); suffers damage from cold, Fire, and 
acid attacks with a -2 modiFier per die; gains +1 bonus to saves vs. 
cold, Fire, and acid attacks. 

Personality: logical, inquisitive. 


CHAP + CR 111: FTIASKS 

VlSAtifc: AC 0; MV FI 15 (A); HD 6; hp 40; THACO 15; #AT 2; 
Dmg Id8/ld8 (claw/claw); SA lucidity control, domination, 
identity theft; SD struck only by +1 or better weapons, immu 
nities, turning; MR 25%; SZ M (6' tall); ML elite (14); Int high 
(14); ALCE;XP 2,000. 

Notes: These stats can be used throughout the remainder of 
the adventure, as the PCs will face visages on several occasions. 

SA-manipulate foe's perception of reality (target can save vs. 
spell to negate false reality for one round, but only if he realizes 
that he's being manipulated); dominate a single target (as the dom 
ination spell) once per day; assume identity of slain foe. 

SD-immune to holy water, poison, paralyzation, cold, sleep, 
charm, hold, and fear; turned as a "special" type of undead. 


Minion or Set (3): AC -2; MV 12; HD 6; hp 45, 39, 32; THACO 
15(13 with khopesh sword +2); #AT 3/2 (in natural form) or 
3 (in scorpion form); Dmg 2d4+2 (khopesh sword + 2) or 
1 d 10/1 d 10/1 d4 (pincer/pincer/stinger); SA poison sting; SD 
immunity, save; MR 10%; SZ M (6'6" tall); ML fearless (20); 
Int high (14); AL LE; XP 1,400 each. 

Notes: Minion can shapechange into giant scorpion in less 
than one round; AC remains the same. 

SA-victims struck by scorpion's stinger must save vs. poison 
or die; those who succeed still suffer 2d4 points of damage. 

SD-immune to magic that creates fear or doubt; saves as a 
lOth-level Fighter while in either form. 

Special Equipment: khopesh sword + 2 (forged on Baator). 

Giani bukinu beetle (8): AC 3; MV 6; HD 5; hp 23 each; THACO 
15; #AT 1; Dmg 5d4 (mandibles); SZ L (9' long); ML elite (14); 
Int animal (1); AL N; XP 175 each. 

Cri x watchman, PI/ c J human/F5/NG,CG (3+): AC 4 (chain 
mail, shield); MV 12; hp 22 each; THACO 16;#ATl;Dmg ld8 
(long sword); SZ M (6' tall); ML elite (14); Int average (10); XP 
175 each. 

Notes: Only three watchmen attack the PCs during the am 
bush at High Point (the others are really visages), though the party 
may encounter more than three while exploring Crux. 


CHAP + EK IV: 

mcssAGC fR(r)m thana+(c)s 

Loveiost (wraith) (100+): AC 4; MV 12, FI 24 (B); HD 5+3; hp 
24 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (chilling touch); SA 
level drain; SD weapon immunity, attack immunity, hit point 
recovery; SW sunlight, holy water, raise dead; SZ M (6' tall); 
ML champion (15); Int very (12); AL LE; XP 2,000 each. 

Notes: Although hundreds of the Loveiost inhabit Ranais, 
they attack the PCs one at a time to toy with the heroes. 

SA-a successful attack drains one experience level from a 
victim; those drained completely of levels become half-strength 
wraiths. 

SD-struck only by +1 or better weapons; silver weapons in 
flict half damage; immune to poison, paralyzation, cold, sleep, 
charm, hold, and death; recovers one lost hit point every eight 
hours. 

SW-direct sunlight renders a wraith powerless; holy water 
inflicts 2d4 points of damage; raise dead destroys a wraith that 
fails to save vs. spell. 

Rism-shissis kis-shas (mist mephit): AC 7; MV 12, FI 24 (B); HD 
3+2; hp 15; THACO 17; #AT 2; Dmg 1/1 (claw/claw); SA 
breathe mist; SD wall of fog. gaseous form, gate; SW strong 
winds; SZ M (5' tall); ML average (10); Int average (10); AL N; 
XP 420. 

SA-every other round (max of 3/hour), can breathe cloud of 
mist that envelops one victim (save vs. poison or suffer ld4 points of 
choking damage and be blinded for ld4 rounds). 

SD-create a wall of fog as a 3rd-level wizard (1 /day); assume 
gaseous form (1 /day); gate ld2 ice or mist mephits (1/hour, 25°/o 
chance). 

SW-powerful winds (including gust of wind] cause mephit to 

flee. 


? 161 ? 



Giant eagle (1-10): AC 7; MV 3, FI 48 (D); HD 4; hp 20 each; 
THACO 17; HAT 3; Dmg Id6/ld6/2d6 (claw/claw/beak); SA 
dive; SD never surprised; SZ L (10' tall); ML elite (13); Int av 
erage (10); AL N; XP 420 each. 

SA-when diving more than 50 feet, eagle gains +4 to attack 
roll and inflicts double damage with claws. 


CHAP + CR V: 

THE B0 + + (c)m (c)f +HE 
mUL+lVERSE 

Ghoiji. (10 per guard post): AC 6; MV 9; HD 2; hp 16 each; 
THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6 (claw/claw/bite); SA 
paralysis, become spectre; SD immune to sleep and charm ; 
SW protection from evil keeps ghoul at bay; SZ M (6' tall); ML 
steady (12); Int low (5); AL CE; XP 175 each. 

Notes: Victims slain by ghouls in Tcian Sumere are eaten and 
thus do not become ghouls themselves. 

SA-victim touched by ghoul must save vs. paralyzation or 
remain immobile for ld6+2 rounds; if a group of 10 ghouls is slain, 
their spirits merge to form a spectre. 

Spectre (1-6): AC 2; MV 15, FI 30 (B); HD 7+3; hp 36 each; 
THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (chilling touch); SA level drain; 
SD weapon and attack immunity; SW sunlight, holy water, 
raise dead ; SZ M (6' tall); ML champion (15); Int high (13); AL 
CE; XP 3,000 each. 

Notes: One spectre forms from each pack of 10 ghouls slain. 
Other than their alignments, they are standard spectres. 

SA-a successful attack drains two experience levels from a 
victim; those drained completely of levels become full-strength 
spectres. 

SD-struck only by +1 or better weapons; immune to poison, 
paralyzation, cold, sleep, charm , and hold. 

SW-sunlight renders spectre powerless; holy water inflicts 
2d4 points of damage; raise dead destroys a spectre that fails to 
save vs. spell. 


SD-immune to all spells except fire- and cold-based attacks 
(see below); electrical attacks restore to golem 1 hit point per die of 
damage normally caused. 

SW-fire- and cold-based spells slow golem for 2d6 rounds. 

Khsmi), Pr 16 drow vampire/HD 8+3/CE: AC 1; MV 12, FI 18 
(C); hp 33; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+4 (fist); SA gaze, life 
drain, summon aid, gaseous form, shape change , spider climb , 
drow spells; SD weapon and attack immunity, regeneration, 
gaseous at 0 hp, save bonus; SW garlic, mirrors, holy sym 
bols, holy water, sunlight, running water, stake, bright light; 
MR 70%; SZ M (5'10" tall); ML champion (16); Int exceptional 
(16); XP 10,000. 

SA-gaze acts as charm person (-2 to saving throw); success 
ful touch attack drains two experience levels from victim; summon 
lOdlO bats or rats, which arrive in 2d6 rounds; assume gaseous 
form at will; shape change into large bat; spider climb at will; can 
use any of the following spells (1 /day): dancing lights, darkness 
15' radius, detect magic, faerie fire, know alignment, and levitate. 

SD-struck only by +1 or better weapons; immune to poison, 
paralysis, sleep, hold, and charm: half damage from cold and elec 
tricity; regenerates 3 hp/round; if reduced to 0 hp, assumes gaseous 
form and flees to coffin to regenerate body in eight hours; +2 
bonus to saves vs. magical attack. 

SW-repelled by garlic, mirrors, and holy symbols; suffers 
ld6+l points of damage if struck by holy water or holy symbol; 
killed by sunlight (one round), running water (three rounds), or a 
stake through the heart; -2 to attack rolls in bright light. 

Personality: loyal to Kiaransalee. 

Glyphimhor (cursed balok spikit): AC 0; MV 12; HD 10; hp 56; 
THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 0; SA suggestion, ray of enfeeblement , 
fear (by touch); SD struck only by +1 or better weapons; MR 
30%; SZ L (7' tall); ML fanatic (17); Int genius (18); AL CE; 
XP 7,000. 

Notes: Glyphimhor has been greatly reduced in power and 
lacks most balor abilities. 

Personality: crafty, greedy. 


Xeg-yi: AC 0; MV 6; HD 7; hp 34; THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld6+6 (draining touch); SA corrosion, explosion; SD struck 
only by +1 or better weapons, spell immunity; SW shield spell 
repels attack; MR 15%; SZ M (4' diameter); ML steady (12); 
Int high (14); AL N; XP 7,000. 

Notes: A circle of protection, a mace of disruption, or a rod of 
cancellation provides protection from xeg-yi's attacks; the rod and 
mace are immune to its corrosive touch. 

SA-every other round, xeg-yi can discharge a bolt of energy 
(10-foot range) that inflicts ld6+6 points of damage upon living 
foes and corrodes nonliving materials that fail to save vs. electric 
ity; when slain, xeg-yi explodes with negative energy (10-foot-ra- 
dius burst), causing 2d6+12 points of damage to foes and 
corroding materials that fail to save. 

SD-immune to all spells except disintegrate, magic missile, 
and heat-based attacks. 

Flesh golem: AC 9; MV 8; HD 9; hp 40; THACO 11; HAT 2; 
Dmg 2d8/2d8 (fist/fist); SD struck only by +1 or better weap 
ons, spell immunity; SW fire, cold; SZ L (7'6" tall); ML fear 
less (20); Int semi (3); AL N; XP 2,000. 


Tri-i lower lrond: AC 9; MV 0; HD 2+8; hp 20; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 0; SA shoots 2d4 tendrils (3'-range) that induce 
coma and inflict damage; SZ M (5' tall); ML average (10); Int 
non (0); AL N; XP 420. 

SA-victim struck by tendril must save vs. poison or fall into 
coma lasting ld4 hours; tendril drips enzyme on coma victim, in 
flicting 2d4 points of damage per round (damage stops if enzyme is 
washed off with water); tendril drains fluid from coma victim, in 
flicting ld6 points of damage per round. 

Biological construct: AC 6; MV 9; HD 8+8; hp 58; THACO as 
controller +3 (Str bonus); HAT 1; Dmg 2d6 (fist) or by weapon 
+6; SD half damage from heat and cold attacks; SZ L (8' tall); 
ML as controller; AL as controller; XP 1,400. 

Notes: The construct has need for food, air, and sleep, just as 
a human does. Mind-influencing spells affect both controller and 
construct, as mind is shared. Construct stats and abilities do not in 
crease as controller increases in level. 

S 18/00, D 6, C 16, I as controller, W as controller, Ch as 
controller -6. 





CHAP + CR VI: 

THE VAUL+ (c) F +HC DR(c)W 

Because the PCs have so much freedom in this chapter, the 
DM can introduce encounters with drow or monsters as 
needed. Thus, the stats for many of the foes below don't spec 
ify the number encountered. 

Typical drow warrior, Pr 13 drow/F3/CE: AC 2 (chain mail + l f 
shield -hi); MV 12; hp 15; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+l 
(short sword -hi); SA can use dancing lights, darkness 15 ' ra 
dius, and faerie fire each once per day; SD infravision 120', 
surprise, save bonus; SW -2 to attacks in bright light; MR 
56 o/d; SZ M (5' tall); ML elite (14); Int high (14); XP 975. 

SD-surprised only on a roll of 1 on Id 10; +2 to saves vs. 
magical attack. 

Special Equipment: chain mail -hi, shield (buckler) -hi, 
short sword -hi (all forged on the Prime). 

Typical drow priestess, Pr/ 9 drow/P4(Lolth)/CE: AC 0 (chain 
mail -h2, shield +2); MV 12; hp 18; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld6+3 (mace +2); SA can use clairvoyance, dancing lights, 
darkness 15' radius, detect lie, detect magic, dispel magic, 
faerie fire, know alignment, levitate, and suggestion each once 
per day; SD infravision 120', surprise, save bonus; SW -2 to 
attacks in bright light; MR 58%; SZ M (5' tall); ML elite (14); 
Int high (14); XP 1,400. 

SD-surprised only on a roll of 1 on Id 10; +2 to saves vs. 
magical attack. 

Special Equipment: chain mail -h2, shield (buckler) -h2, 
mace -h2 (all forged on the Prime). 

Spells (3/2): 1st -cause light wounds, command, cure 
light wounds; 2nd-heat metal, hold person. 

Giant spidlr: AC 4; MV 3, Wb 12; HD 4+4; hp 23; THACO 15; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (bite); SA poison; SZ L (9' diameter); ML elite 
(13); Int low (6); AL CE; XP 650. 

SA-spider injects Type F poison through bite; victim must 
save vs. poison or die immediately. 

Bugbear (500): AC 5; MV 9; HD 3+1; hp 15 each; THACO 17 
(15 with morning star); #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (claws) or 2d4+2 
(morning star); SA -3 to opponents' surprise rolls; SD infra 
vision 60'; SZ L (7' tall); ML steady (12); Int average (8); AL 
CE; XP 120 each. 

Notes: The bugbears gain +2 to attack and damage rolls with 
their morning stars because the weapons (though nonmagical) are 
especially large and heavy. What's more, Gannish, the bugbear 
leader, has 6 Hit Dice and wears gauntlets of ogre power. 

The general bugbear stats may also be useful later, if the DM 
decides that the PCs encounter more of the creatures on Pandemo 
nium. 

Troglodyte: AC 5; MV 12; HD 2; hp 8; THACO 19;#AT3or 1; 
Dmg Id2/ld2/ld4+l (claw/claw/bite) or 2d4 (broad sword or 
morning star); SA noxious oil; SD infravision 90'; SZ M (6' 
tall); ML steady (11); Int low (6); AL CE; XP 120. 

SA-when angered or in melee, troglodyte secretes an oil so 
noxious that victims who fail to save vs. poison lose ld6 points of 
Strength for 10 rounds (due to revulsion). 


Iurmii) (mind n ayi r): AC 5; MV 12; HD 8+4; hp 40; THACO 11; 
#AT 4; Dmg 2/2/2/2 (tentaclex4); SA mind blast, tentacles, 
spells; SD infravision; MR 90%; SZ M (6' tall); ML champion 
(15); Int genius (18); AL LE; XP 9,000. 

SA-mind blast (projected in a cone 60 feet long, 5 feet wide 
at start, 20 feet wide at end) stuns victims for 3d4 rounds if they 
fail to save vs. wand; successful tentacle attack indicates that ten 
tacle grips victim's head (bend bars roll to remove), and if all four 
tentacles do so at same time, the victim dies one round thereafter; 
can use the following spells (1/round) as a 7th-level mage: astral 
projection, charm monster, charm person, ESP, levitate, plane 
shift, and suggestion (-4 to any saves vs. these spells). 

Gii iivanki warrior, Pl/d githyanki/F4/CEi AC 3 (banded mail, 
shield); MV 12; hp 24; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long 
sword); SA plane shift at will; SZ M (6' tall); ML steady (12); 
Int exceptional (15); XP 270. 

Notes: Many githyanki have psionics. 

Dim i \u k hi asi AC 4; MV 15; HD 6; hp 28; THACO 15; #AT 2; 
Dmg 2d4/2d4 (tentaclex2); SA claws and teeth; SD displace 
ment, save; SZ L (10' long); ML elite (14); Int semi (4); AL LE; 
XP 975. 

SA-if near death, displacer beast attacks with six claws 
(Dmg: ld3 each) and bite (Dmg: ld8). 

SD-beast appears to be 3 feet from its actual location, impos 
ing -2 penalty on opponents' attack rolls (real location revealed 
only by true seeing ); saves as 12th-level fighter, adding +2 to rolls. 

NkiHTMAri AC -4; MV 15, FI 36 (C); HD 6+6; hp 33; THACO 
15; #AT 3; Dmg 2d4+2/2d4+2/2d4 (hoof/hoof/bite); SA front 
hooves ignite combustibles; SD noxious cloud; SZ L (6' tall at 
shoulder); ML elite (13); Int very (11); AL NE; XP 2,000. 

SD-emits cloud of noxious vapor that blinds and chokes vic 
tims within 10 feet; those who fail to save vs. paralyzation suffer 
-2 on attack and damage rolls. 

Erehe, Pr/cJ drow/F4,M 10/CE: AC 0 (bracers, Dex bonus); MV 
12; hp 40; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+3 (short sword +3); 
SA can use dancing lights, darkness 15 ' radius, detect magic, 
faerie fire, know alignment, and levitate each once per day; 
SD infravision 120', surprise, save bonus; SW -2 to attacks in 
bright light; MR 70<>/o; SZ M (5'2" tall); ML elite (14); XP 
5,000. 

SD-surprised only on a roll of 1 on Id 10; +2 to saves vs. 
magical attack. 

S 14, D 18, C 15, I 17, W 10, Ch 13. 

Personality: megalomaniacal, treacherous. 

Special Equipment: bracers of defense (AC 4), short 
sword +3 (forged on the Prime), wand of viscid globs (once per 
round, can fire a 5-foot-diameter glob of gummy material up 
to 60 feet; target must save vs. wand to dodge or become 
stuck until glob is destroyed by dispel magic or alcohol; 12 
charges). 

Spells (4/4/3/2/2): 1st -charm person, detect magic, 
magic missile, ventriloquism; 2nd-blindness, ESP, invisibil 
ity, web; 3rd-fiy, lightning bolt , slow; 4th-dimension door, 
wall offire; Sih-telekinesis, wall of force. 


? 163 ? 



Vfruaeth, Pr/$ drow/P10(Kiaransalee)/CE: AC -8 [chain mail 
+ 4, shield +4 , Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 42; THACO 14; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6+5 (mace +4); SA can use clairvoyance, dancing 
lights, darkness 15' radius, detect lie, detect magic, dispel 
magic, faerie fire, know alignment, levitate, and suggestion 
each once per day; SD infravision 120', surprise, save bonus; 
SW -2 to attacks in bright light; MR 70%; SZ M (5'3" tall); ML 
champion (16); XP 5,000. 

S 13, D 18, C 13, I 12, W 18, Ch 16. 

Personality: paranoid, devoted to Erehe. 

Special Equipment: chain mail +4, shield (buckler) +4, 
mace +4 (all forged on the Prime), fire elemental gem (func 
tions as a brazier of commanding fire elemental, except that 
the elemental can be summoned from any existing fire 
source, and no fire elementals will attack the bearer of this 
item if it is held out forcefully). 

Spells (6/6/4/4/2J: 1st -cause light wounds, command 
(x2), cure light wounds, detect magic, sanctuary: 2r\d-heat 
metal, hold person (x2), know alignment, resist fire, silence 
15' radius; 3rd-continual darkness, cause blindness or deaf 
ness, glyph of warding, cause paralysis; 4th-cure serious 
wounds, detect lie, protection from lightning, tongues; 5th- 
fame strike, true seeing. 

Yuchi.ol, proxy of Lolth AC 10 (true form), 4 (spider), or 3 
(drow with plate mail); MV 12, Wb 6 as spider; HD 6+6; hp 
50; THACO 15 (true form), 15 (spider), or 13 (drow + Str 
bonus); #AT 8 (true form), 1 (spider), or 1 (drow); Dmg ld4+4 
x8 (true form: tentacles), ld8 (spider: bite), or ld6+4 (drow: 
short sword + Str bonus); SA poison, spells, psionics; SD 
weapon and attack immunities; SW magical winds; MR 50%; 
SZ M (6' tall); ML champion (16); Int high (14); AL CE; XP 
11,000. 

Notes: Yochlol's natural form is that of a roperlike mass, 
though it can assume the form of a drow female, a giant spider, or 
a stinking cloud. While in cloud form, the yochlol cannot make 
physical or spell-like attacks, but can use its psionic powers. 

SA-spider's bite immediately kills victim who fails to save vs. 
poison; solid forms have the spell-like powers charm person, dark 
ness 15' radius, infravision, spider climb, stone shape, teleport 
without error, and web (all 1/round, at will). 

SD-cloud form harmed only by magic missiles or magical 
cold or fire; solid forms struck only by cold iron, silver, or +2 or 
better weapons; solid forms immune to nonmagical fire, gas, poi 
son, and electricity; solid forms suffer half damage from cold and 
magical fire. 

SW -gust of wind inflicts 6d6 points of damage to cloud form; 
wind walk slays cloud form instantly. 

Psionics summary: Lvl 6; Dis/Sci/Dev 1/3/10; Attack/De 
fense MT,II,EW/A11; Score 14; PSPs 90. 

Psionic powers: Telepathic sciences: domination, 
mindlink, probe; telepathic devotions: attraction, contact, 
ESP, invisibility, phobia amplification, psychic impersonation. 


CHAP + ER VII: 

THE RUINS (c)F PCU(c)N 

M miaviii, PI/c? aasimar/R9/CG: AC 4 (leather +3, Dex 
bonus); MV 12; hp 56; THACO 12 (11 with Str bonus); #AT 
3/2; Dmg Id 10+1 (two-handed sword + Str bonus) or ld6+l 
(spear + Str bonus); SA fighting/hunting lycanthropes; SD in 
fravision 60', +1 on surprise rolls, half damage from fire and 
cold, +2 to saves vs. charm, fear, emotion , or domination; MR 
10%; SZ M (6'4" tall); ML fanatic (17); XP 3,000. 

SA-gains +4 to attack rolls when fighting lycanthropes; 25% 
chance to detect lycanthropes by smell alone. 

S 17, D 15, C 14, I 12, W 15, Ch 13. 

Personality: obsessed, gruff. 

Special Equipment: leather armor +3 (forged on Ar- 
borea), boots of speed. 

Spells (2): 1st -animal friendship, locate animals or 
plants. 

Thief Abilities: MS 70%, HS 56%. 

(j (at least 3 per PC): AC 4; MV 15; HD 4; hp 16 each; 
THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8 (claw/claw/bite); SA 
paralysis, stench; SD immune to sleep and charm; SW cold 
iron weapons inflict double damage; SZ M (5' tall); ML elite 
(13); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 650 each. 

SA-victim touched by ghast must save vs. paralyzation or 
become immobile for ld6+4 rounds; anyone within 10 feet of 
ghasfs debilitating stench must save vs. poison or suffer -2 to at 
tack rolls. 

H , Pl/cJ human/T8/NE: AC 4 (cloak +3, Dex bonus); MV 
12; hp 25; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+l (short sword +2); 
SA x3 backstab; SZ M (5'10" tall); ML elite (13); XP 2,000. 

S 11, D 17, C 12, I 15, W 10, Ch 8. 

Personality: self-serving, untrustworthy. 

Special Equipment: short sword +2 (forged on the Out- 
lands; + 1 on Arborea), cloak of protection +3 (created on Ar 
boreal, ring of regeneration , the Orb of Kadu-Ra. 

Thief Abilities: PP 45, OL 55, F/RT 55, MS 60, HS 65, DN 
35, CW 60, RL 20. 

A ' v , Pl/<3,9 alabaster elf/F7/CN (3 or 20): 

AC 3 (chain mail, shield, Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 42 each; 
THACO 14, (12 with sword, 13 with bow); #AT 2; Dmg ld8+2 
(long sword) or ld6 (long bow); SA +2 to attack rolls with 
bow if within 30'; SD 90% resistant to sleep and charm; SZ M 
(6' tall); ML champion (16); Int average (10); XP 975 each. 

Notes: These deaf elves are treated as specialists in long 
swords and long bows, granting them attack and damage bonuses. 

Special Equipment: one of every six warriors has either a 
long sword -hi or a long bow -hi (forged on Arborea). 

Ckym-m m/i AC 8; MV 1, Sw 3; HD 8; hp 52; THACO 13; #AT 
1; Dmg 4d4; SA poison, corrosion; SD weapon resistance, im 
mune to acid, cold, and heat; SZ L (15' long); ML elite (14); 
Int low (7); AL NE; XP 2,000. 

Notes: The crystal ooze was a standard specimen until the vile 
essence of the pool changed its Hit Dice, size, Intelligence, and 
alignment. 

SA-victim of attack must save vs. poison 
or become paralyzed for 5d4 rounds, dur 
ing which time ooze tries to consume him 





(a victim reduced to -20 hp is totally consumed); touch corrodes 
wood and cloth. 

SD-weapons inflict only 1 point of damage per strike; 
wooden weapons that strike the ooze must save vs. acid or dissolve. 

AC 3; MV 9; HD 10+6; hp 58; THACO 11; 
#AT 1; Dmg ldl2 (bite); SA level drain, poison, gaze; SD at 
tack immunity, wraithform; SW turning; MR 40%; SZ G (35' 
long): ML elite (14); Int low (5); AL N; XP 10,000. 

Notes: This is the original wraithworm, from which all others 
were created; it's much more powerful than the normal specimen. 

SA-bite drains two experience levels from victim (save vs. 
spell to negate); bite transmits poison that inflicts 3d4 points of 
damage every hour for ld6 hours, during which time the victim's 
attack rolls, saving throws, and AC suffer a -4 penalty (save vs. 
poison at -2 to negate both the damage and the penalty); any crea 
ture of 6 or fewer Hit Dice that meets the wraithworm's gaze is par 
alyzed for 2d4 rounds (save vs. spell to avoid). 

SD-immune to cold or negative energy attacks: can assume 
wraithform (as the spell) at will, in which state it's struck only by 
+ 1 or better weapons but can't make physical or gaze attacks. 

SW-a priest's successful turning attempt vs. a ghost renders 
the wraithworm motionless for ld3 rounds. 

I-\ n in, Px/cJ ?/F8,M8/CG: AC 6 (Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 69; 
THACO 13 (11 with any object as a weapon); #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld6+4 (any object + Str bonus); SA can use any object as a 
weapon; SD immune to mind-affecting magic; MR 30%; SZ 
M (6' 1" tall); ML fanatic (18); XP 2,000. 

Notes: Evreth's race is unknown. 

S 18/79, D 18, C 16, I 18, W 13, Ch 7. 

Personality: condescending, arrogant. 

Spells (4/3/3/2): lst-armor, burning hands, hold portal, 
shield; 2nd-blur, detect invisibility, Melfs acid arrow; 3rd- 
blink, flame arrow, hold person; 4th -fear, stoneskin. 

1 ¦ -i, Px/cJ 7/F7/CG: AC 10; MV 12; hp 57; THACO 14 (11 

with any object as a weapon); #AT 3/2; Dmg ld6+6 (any ob 
ject + Str bonus); SA can use any object as a weapon; SD im 
mune to mind-affecting magic; MR 30%; SZ M (5'4" tall); ML 
fearless (19); XP 1,400. 

Notes: Tchunim's race is unknown. 

S 18/00, D 12, C 16, I 13, W 17, Ch 14. 

Personality: friendly, helpful, curious. 


CHAP + ER VIII: 

DCCPCS+ PANDEmeNIUm 

p! , Pl/c? human/F9/N: AC 1 (plate mail, shield); MV 9 
(moderately encumbered); hp 67; THACO 12(11 with sword, 
10 with Str bonus); 0AT 3/2; Dmg 2d4+4 (broad sword + Str 
bonus); SZ M (6'2" tall): ML elite (14); XP 3,000. 

Notes: A former paladin, Pirreg has lost all paladin abilities 
and much Wisdom and Charisma as a result of his madness. 

S 18/31, D 12, C 16, I 14, W 7, Ch 8. 

Personality: paranoid, deluded. 

Special Equipment: plate mail +2, broad sword +2 (both 
forged on the Outlands; +1 on Pandemonium), ring offtre re 
sistance, rope of entanglement. 


V Pl/9 bariaur/P8(Tyr)/N: AC 3 (plate mail); MV 9 (mod 
erately encumbered); hp 34; THACO 16(15 with mace); #AT 1; 
Dmg 1 d6+2 (mace); SD +2 to surprise rolls, +3 to save vs. 
spell; SZ M (5'4" tall); ML average (10); XP 1,400. 

Notes: Due to her harrowing experiences on Pandemonium. 
Antha's lost her priest abilities, including spellcasting. 

S 11, D 12, C 10, l 15, W 16, Ch 13. 

Personality: frightened, desperate. 

Special Equipment: mace +3 (forged on Mount Celestia; 
+ 1 on Pandemonium), wand of negation (4 charges). 

i , PI 16 human/M8/NE: AC 7 (Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 

23; THACO 18(15 with staff): #AT 1; Dmg ld6+3 (staff of 
striking ); SA staff; SZ M (5' 11" tall); ML elite (14); XP 2,000. 

SA-when striking with staff, Cardule can use two charges to 
inflict ld6+6 points of damage, or three charges to inflict ld6+9. 

S 10, D 17, C 12, I 16, W 10, Ch 9. 

Personality: angry, distrustful. 

Special Equipment: staff of striking (15 charges), wand 
of polymorphing (24 charges), potion of extra-healing. 

Spells (4/3/3/2): lst-armor, bunting hands, magic mis 
sile, shield; 2nd -detect invisibility, ESP, web; 3rd -dispel 
magic, fireball, lightning bolt; 4th-shout, stoneskin. 

(.i .\k ( - AC 4; MV 12; HD 6+6; hp 40; THACO 13;#AT3or 
1; Dmg ld4+4/ld4+4/ld8+4 (claw/claw/bite) or Id 10+8 (two- 
handed sword + Str bonus); SA severed limbs; SD infravision 
90', regeneration; SW fire and acid cause permanent damage; 
SZ L (9' tall); ML elite (14); Int low (6); AL CE; XP 1,400. 

SA-severed body parts continue to fight, attempting to rejoin 
with largest intact portion of body once combat has ended. 

SD-starting three rounds after damage is incurred (even if re 
duced to 0 hp), troll regenerates 3 hp/round until healed. 

B \k w i*\ (ok mvkh AC 5; MV 11, Sw 15; HD 7 + 7; hp 46; 
THACO 13 (10 with spear, 11 with sword); #AT 5; Dmg ld4+l 
(x4)/2d4 (clawx4/bite) or ld6+3/ld8+2/ld8/ld6/2d4 (spear 
-h3/long sword /long sword/short sword/bite); SA hurl rocks, 
constriction; SD +4 to save vs. poison; SZ H (25' long, 10' 
tall); ML elite (14); Int very (11); AL LN; XP 1,400. 

SA-hurl rocks up to 40 feet, inflicting 2d6 points of damage 

each. 

SA-if same victim is struck twice in one round, victim must 
make Str and Dex checks; if both are failed, victim is constricted 
starting next round, suffering 2d6 points of damage per round. -1 
to attack rolls, and -2 to damage rolls (Str check to break free). 
Personality: paranoid, greedy. 

Special Equipment: spear +3 (forged on Pandemonium), 
long sword +3 (forged on the Outlands; +2 on Pandemonium). 

R: (3): AC 1 (plate mail, two shields); MV 9; HD 2+4; hp 15 

each; THACO 19; #AT 2 or 1; Dmg ld8+2/ld8+2 (long sword 
+ Str bonus) or ld6+2 (thrown spear + Str bonus); SD +1 to 
surprise rolls, fade to Astral Plane; SZ M (7' tall); ML steady 
(12); Int average (9); AL LE; XP 175 each. 

Notes: A reave's ability to become astral and return ld6 
rounds later works only from the topmost layer of an Outer Plane; 
thus, the reaves can't fade while in Phlegethon. 


? 165 ? 



I nuress (36+): AC 9; MV 12; HD 1; hp 4 each; THACO 19; #AT 
1; Dmg ld2 (claw); SZ M (4' tall); ML average (8); Int low (5); 
AL CN; XP 15 each. 

Ingress Mothhr: AC 10; MV l;HD8;hp 40; THACO 13; #ATO; 
Dmg 0; SZ G (30' across); ML fearless (19); Int average (8); AL 
CN; XP 650. 

Qi ah-Namog, Pr/d half-ogre/Pl2(0rcus-Tenebrous)/NE; AC 
-1 (banded mail, shield ); MV 9 (moderately encumbered); hp 
59; THACO 14 (11 with gauntlets, 9 with flail); #AT 1; Dmg 
ld6+9 (flail, gauntlets ); SD infravision 60'; SW -2 to hit 
dwarves, -4 to hit gnomes; SZ M (7' tall); ML fanatic (18); XP 
4,000. 

Notes: Quah-Namog is astrally projecting himself onto Pan 
demonium, which means that he carries only magical equipment 
(nonmagical items can't be projected). But because he's several 
planes away from his deity, the priest functions at a reduced spell 
casting level during this encounter. The spell list given below as 
sumes that Tenebrous is on the Negative Energy Plane. Since three 
planes (the Ethereal, the Prime, and the Astral) separate him from 
Quah-Namog, the priest loses three spellcasting levels and func 
tions as a 9th-level caster. However, if the DM wants to make 
Quah-Namog stronger, he can rule that Tenebrous is closer to Pan 
demonium, meaning that the priest's spellcasting level increases. 

S 14 (18/00), D 11, C 16, I 13, W 17, Ch 7. 

Personality: devoted, desperate. 

Special Equipment: flail +4 (forged on the Prime; +2 on 
Pandemonium), banded mail +3 (forged on the Prime; +1 on 
Pandemonium), shield +5 (forged on the Prime; +3 on Pande 
monium), gauntlets of ogre power. 

Spells (6/6/4/2/1): 1st -cause fear, cause light wounds, 
command, cure light wounds, detect good, protection from 
good; 2nd-heat metal, hold person (x2), produce flame, si 
lence 15' radius, warp wood; 3rd-animate dead, dispel 
magic, locate object, prayer; 4th -cure serious wounds, free 
action; 5th -cure critical wounds. 


CHAP + ER IX: 

THE DEAD-B9(r) K (c)f +H€ G(c)DS 


SW -light or continual light inflicts 2 points of damage per 
caster level and imposes -2 on attack rolls and saving throws; sun- 
ray or a burst from a wand of illumination inflicts 6d6 points of 
damage (no save). 

B \ (50 per PC): AC 8 (when swarming) or 4 (under ideal fly 
ing conditions); MV 1, FI 24 (B); HD 2 hp each; THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1; SA hinder combat and spells; SZ T (T long); 
ML unreliable (4); Int animal (1); AL N; XP 15 each. 

SA-when swarming, bats hinder foe's ability to fight (-2 to 
attack rolls) and cast spells (Wisdom check required). 

Quah-Namog, Pr 16 half-ogre/P12(0rcus-Tenebrous)/NE: Use 
the stats given above, with these changes: AC -3; THACO 8 
(with flail); Dmg ld6+10 (with gauntlets and flail). The 
changes reflect the fact that Quah-Namog's shield, armor, and 
weapon each gain one plus in the Astral, being closer to their 
plane of creation. 

Notes: Quah-Namog is not astrally projecting in this en 
counter; he's physically present in the Astral. Because he's literally 
sitting on top of his deity's head, he functions at full spellcasting 
strength. 

Spells (8/7/6/3/2/2): 1st- cause fear, cause light wounds, 
command, cure light wounds (x2), detect good, protection from 
good, sanctuary; 2nd-heat metal, hold person (x2), produce 
flame, silence 15' radius, spiritual hammer, warp wood; 3rd- 
animate dead, cause paralysis, dispel magic, locate object, 
prayer, protection from fire; 4th-cure serious wounds, free 
action, spell immunity; 5th-cure critical wounds, dispel good; 
6th -blade barrier, word of recall. 

I N + (c) + H € UGH + 

PA R+ (c) N €: 

INI+IAL f (c) RAY S 

Because the PCs have the freedom to investigate as they 
please, the stats below aren't presented in the order in which 
the heroes meet the characters. Instead, the stats are grouped 
according to general allegiance. 


Skeletons (3d8+): AC 7; MV 12; HD 1; hp 8 each; THACO 19; 
*AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short sword); SD magical immunities, half 
damage from edged or piercing weapons; SW holy water in 
flicts 2d4 points of damage; SZ M (6' tall); ML fearless (20); 
Int non (0); AL N; XP 65 each. 

SD-immune to fear, sleep, charm, hold, and cold attacks. 

Varrangoin. lesser-TYP t II (l per pc): AC 0; MV 3, FI 18 (C); 
HD 5+5; hp 30 each; THACO 15; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld6 
(claw/claw/bite); SA breathe fire; SD struck only by silver or 
magical weapons, immunities; SW magical light; MR 25%; SZ 
M (4' tall); ML fanatic (18); Int very (12); AL CE; XP 2,000 
each. 

Notes: Each varrangoin controls 50 normal bats (see below). 
SA-three times per day, can breathe a cloud of fire (10-yard 
diameter, 30-yard range) that inflicts 5d6 points of damage. 

SD-immune to fire-based spells; half damage from acid at 
tacks; allowed a save vs. breath weapons for half dam 
age. 


T H € A + HAR 

Athar troubieshuoters, Pl/var human/F5/Athar/N (5): AC 8 
(leather); MV 12; hp 28 each; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
(short sword, club, or spear); SA poison; SZ M (5'6" tall); ML 
elite (14); Int average (11); XP 175 each. 

Special Equipment: Type M poison on blades (contact, 
ld4 minutes, 20/5). 

Ghear the Slum i i), Pl/d human/C7/Athar/LN: AC 3 (plate 
mail); MV 9; hp 32; THACO 16; #AT l;Dmg ld6+l (flail); SZ 
M (6' tall); ML fearless (19); XP 975. 

S 14, D 10, C 15, I 12, W 15, Ch 9. 

Personality: loyal, committed. 

Special Equipment: brooch of shielding (absorbs 26 
points of magic missile damage). 




Spells (5/4/2/1): 1st-6/ess, command, cure //g/tf wounds 
(x2), c/erecr eui/; 2nd-aid, hold person , spiritual hammer, 
wyvern watch; 3rd -glyph of warding, protection from fire; 
4th-cure serious wounds. 

Athar guards at churc h. Pl/var var/F3/Athar/N: AC 4 (chain 
mail, shield); MV 12; hp 18eaeh;THAC0 18; #AT l;Dmg ld6 
(spear) or ld4+l (light crossbow); SZ M (5' tall); ML cham 
pion (15); Int average (10); XP 120 each. 

Notes: Two guards watch the front entrance of the church, 
two guards patrol Nickle Street (behind the church), 20 warriors 
wait in the building next door, and one crossbowman waits on a 
roof across the street. 

Athar wizard at church. PI/9 human/Tra4/Athar/NG: AC 8 
[ring of protection +1, Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 9; THACO 19; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld6 (staff); SZ M (5'6" tall); ML champion (16); 
XP 650. 

S 12, D 15, C 13,1 16, W 13, Ch 14. 

Personality: brash, headstrong. 

Special Equipment: ring of protection -hi (forged in 
Sigil). 

Spells (4/3): 1st -burning hands, color spray, shocking 
grasp , spider climb; 2nd -irritation, levitate, pyrotechnics. 

Harmonium troops at church, Pl/var var/F5/Harmonium/LN 
(15): AC 3 (banded mail, shield); MV 12; hp 32 each; THACO 
16; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+l (footman's mace); SZ M (6' tall); ML 
fanatic (17); Int average (8); XP 175 each. 

Notes: If the PCs try to fight their way into the church, the 
Harmonium troops arrive quickly to help the Athar defend the 
place-thafs what seems most likely to keep the peace. 

TH € WAY (c)f +H€ (c)N€ 

Lit ms, Pr/9 elf/F6/Sign of One/N: AC 5 (chain mail); MV 12; 
hp 34; THACO 15 (13 with sword); #AT 1; Dmg 2d4+l (broad 
sword -hi); SD infravision 60', 90% resistant to sleep and 
charm; SZ M (5'7" tall); ML elite (14); XP 650. 

Notes: Elchis is loyal to the Way of the One subgroup of the 
Signers. 

S 15, D 14, C 16, 1 13, W 12, Ch 10. 

Personality: sneaky, vindictive. 

Special Equipment: broad sword -hi (forged on the Out- 
lands). 

Gremmith Mi, PI 16 half-elf/M8/Fated/LE: AC 10; MV 12; hp 
20; THACO 18(17 with blowgun -hi); #AT 0 (2 with blowgun 
-hi); Dmg 2 (blowgun dart); SA darts tipped with poison; SD 
infravision 60', 30% resistant to sleep and charm; SZ M (5'2" 
tall); ML average (9); XP 2.000. 

Notes: Gremmith currently works for the Way of the One sub 
group of the Signers. 

S 8, D 10, C 7, I 18, W 13, Ch 7. 

Personality: cowardly, selfish. 

Special Equipment: blowgun -hi (forged in Sigil), ring of 
shocking grasp, Type C poison (injected, ld4+l minutes, 
25/2d4). 

Spells (4/3/3/2J: \st-annor, chartn person, magic missile, 
sleep; 2nd -blur, invisibility, Melf s acid arrow; 3rd -delude, 
fireball, wraithform; 4th -dimension door, phantasmal killer. 


Sh.ntr Hki is! k. Pl/var var/F4/Sign of One/N (5): AC 7 (leather, 
shield); MV 12; hp 24 each; THACO 17; #AT l;Dmg ld8 (long 
sword or battle axe); SZ M (6' tall); ML champion (16); Int av 
erage (10); XP 120 each. 


(c) + H€R FAC+I0NS 

Lari Chant-Finder. PI/ 9 githzerai/T5/Doomguard/N: AC 7 
(Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 17; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 
(dagger); SA x3 backstab; SD infravision 60'; SZ M (5'8" tall); 
MR 35%; ML steady (12); XP 650. 

S 11, D 17, C 12, I 16, W 12, Ch 13. 

Personality: personable, talkative. 

Special Equipment: gem of insight. 

Thief Abilities: PP 40, OL 50, F/RT 40, MS 50, HS 45, DN 
30, CW 70, RL 45. 

Malwfis, PI/ <5 human/Pal7/Fraternity of Order/LG: AC 2 
(plate mail, shield); MV 9; hp 51; THACO 14 (11 with sword 
and Str); #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8+3 [long sword +2 + Str bonus); 
SD detect evil, save bonus, immunity, cure disease, healing, 
aura of protection, turn undead; SZ M (6'4" tall); ML fanatic 
(18); XP 4,000. 

SD-detect evil within 60 feet (takes one round); +2 to all sav 
ing throws; immune to disease; cure disease twice per week; heal 
14 hp (for himself or another) once per day; 10-foot-radius aura of 
protection causes evil creatures to attack at -1; turn undead as 5th- 
level cleric. 

S 17, D 10, C 15, I 12, W 13, Ch 17. 

Personality: noble, straightforward. 

Special Equipment: long sword -h2 (forged on the Out- 
lands), ring of truth, potion of hill giant strength. 

Ivth Nanrigiii, PI 16 air genasi/P6(Yan-C-Bin)/NE: AC 5 (chain 
mail); MV 12; hp 25; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short 
sword); SA levitate once per day, poison on blade; SD +1 to 
saves vs. air magic; SZ M (5'6" tall); ML elite (13); XP 2,000. 
Notes: Ivth can create a cool breeze at will. 

S 12, D 11, C 9, I 17, W 16, Ch 8. 

Personality: despicable. 

Special Equipment: wand of magic missiles (24 charges), 
potion of invisibility, Type M poison (contact, ld4 minutes, 
20/5). 

Spells (5/5/2): 1st -bless, cause light wounds, command, 
cure light wounds, detect magic; 2nd -augury, charm person 
or mammal, hold person, know alignment, silence 15' radius; 
3rd -cause paralysis , dispel magic . 

Barghem (4): AC 2; MV 15; HD 6+6; hp 30 each; THACO 15; 
#AT 2; Dmg 2d4+6/2d4+6 (claw/claw); SA spell-like powers, 
wolf form; SD struck only by +1 or better weapons; MR 30%; 
SZ M (5' tall); ML champion (15); Int high (13); AL LE; XP 
2,000 each. 

Notes: The barghests serve as Ivth's bodyguards. 

SA-can use the following spell-like powers once per round at 
will: levitate, misdirection, project image, and shape change (into 
wolf form); can use the following spell-like powers once per day at 
will: charm (person or monster), dimension door, and emotion; in 
wolf form, has MV 30, is 75% unlikely to be noticed when motion 
less (-2 to opponents' surprise rolls), and can pass without trace. 


? 167 ? 



Cranium r \i (38): AC 6; MV 15; HD 1; hp 3 each; THACO 19; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4 (bite); SA when 35 are together, can cast one 
1 st-level wizard spell per day; SD communal Hit Dice, saves, 
immunity; SZ T (6" long); ML unsteady (7); Int 1-7 (fluctu 
ates); AL NE; XP 65 each. 

Notes: These rats constantly spread out and come together 
while they gather information for Ivth, so their Intelligence and 
abilities are always in flux. They're loyal to Ivth and report every 
thing they see to him. 

SD-when calculating damage from area-affecting spells, 
treat Hit Dice of pack as a pool (ignore individual hp of each rat); 
rats save as a creature of as many Hit Dice as pack's current Intel 
ligence; immune to sleep when 25 or more rats are together. 


PAR+ TW0: 

CROSSE D SWORDS 

DAMim. PI/ 9 foxwoman/HD 8+1/Xaositect/CE: AC 2, 4, or 6; 
MV 24, 18, or 12; hp 50; THACO 13 (12 with sword); #AT 1; 
Dmg ld2 (fox bite), 2d6 (vixen bite) or ld8 (long sword); SA 
lycanthropy (vixen), charms males of 13 or less Wisdom (elf); 
SD struck only by silver or +1 or better weapons, infravision 
60', pass without trace (fox), 90°/o resistant to sleep and 
charm (elf); SZ S (3' long) or M (5' tall); ML elite (13); Int ex 
ceptional (16); XP 2,000. 

Notes: Daniphe can assume three different forms: fox. vixen 
(a hybrid of fox and elf), and female elf. Variable stats above are 
given in the following order: fox, vixen, elf. 

SA-human or elf females bitten by vixen for half or more of 
their hit points become foxwomen within three days unless a priest 
of 12th+ level casts cure disease and remove curse on victim. 

Athar guards at church: Use the statistics given above, with 
the 20 guards from next door split into seven crossbowmen 
on the roof across the street and 13 around the church. 

Mhavok, PI IS human/EnclO/Sign of One/NE: AC 10; MV 6; 
hp 36; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (staff); SZ M (5'10" tall); 
ML elite (14); XP 3,000. 

Notes: Mhavor, leader of the Way of the One subgroup of the 
Signers, is old and weak, and walks only by means of his staff. 

S 5, D 7, C 8, I 17, W 15, Ch 14. 

Personality: harsh, focused. 

Special Equipment: potion of clairvoyance, potion of 
healing, robe of useful items, wand of negation (10 charges). 

Spells (5/5/4/3/3J: 1st- charm person, burning hands, 
dancing lights, hold portal, hypnotism; 2nd -detect invisibil 
ity, ESP, Melfs acid arrow, ray of enfeeblement, scare; 3 rd- 
dispel magic, fly (x2), suggestion; 4th -fire shield, fumble, 
stoneskin; 5th- domination, fabricate, feeblemind. 


PAR+ THREE: 

mYS + ERIES (c)f +HE S + (c)NES 

Whkshipik (first stone), Pr/var human/F5/N (10): AC 10; MV 
12; hp 25; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (curved knife); SZ M 
(6' tall); ML fanatic (19); Int average (10); XP 175 each. 

Bron/J: i)KAun\. aih i (second stone): AC -4; MV 9, FI 30 (C), 
Sw 12; HD 20; hp 98; THACO 2; #AT 3; Dmg ld8+6/ld8+6/ 
4d6+6 (claw/claw/bite); SA spell-like abilities; SD immune to 
lightning; MR 25%; SZ G (63' long); ML fanatic (17); Int ex 
ceptional (16); AL LN; XP 15,000. 

Notes: Because the dragon won't use its lightning or repulsion 
breath weapons in its master's palace, those attacks aren't de 
scribed in the stats. 

SA-speli-like abilities: water breathing and speak with ani 
mals at will; create food and water, polymorph self, and ESP three 
times per day; wall offog once per day. 

Spells (2/1): 1st- charm person, magic missile ; 2nd-de- 
tect evil. 

SoimiK (third stone), Pr/var human/F3/N: AC 6 (studded 
leather, shield); MV 12; hp 16; THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
(spear, short sword, or long bow); SZ M (6' tall); ML steady 
(12); Int average (10); XP 120 each. 

Notes: Use these stats for soldiers on both sides of the battle. 

N ks! i k i k (third stone), Pr/var human/F5/NE: AC 4 

(banded mail); MV 12; hp 45; THACO 16; 0AT 1; Dmg ld8 
(scimitar); SZ M (5'6" tall); ML fearless (20); Int average (9); 
XP 175 each. 

Aruisii Fiord, Pl/c? human/F8/LE (and memory version from 
sixth stone): AC 7 ( bracers, Dex bonus); MV 12; hp 30; THACO 
13; #AT 3/2; Dmg ld6+l (fist with mace-ring ); SZ M (5'11" 
tall); ML elite (13); XP 975. 

S 14, D 15, C 12, I 18. W 17, Ch 13. 

Personality: scheming, vengeful. 

Special Equipment: mace-ring (ring that enables fist to 
cause damage as a mace), bracers of defense tAC 8), ring of 
human influence , cloak of invisibility. 

Griin si a ad (and memory version from sixth stone): AC 0; 
MV 9; HD 9+5; hp 63; THACO 11; #AT 3; Dmg ld6+2/ld6+2/ 
2d8 (claw/claw/bite); SA spell-like abilities, gate ; SD struck 
only by +1 or better weapons; MR 50%; SZ L (7'6" tall); ML 
elite (14); Int average (9); AL CN; XP 11,000. 

Notes: Only in the (flawed) memory-combat can the slaad 
gate in other slaadi, because no one can gate in or out of Sigil. 

SA-can use the following once per round at will: polymorph 
(into a human), darkness /5' radius, detect invisibility, detect 
magic, ESP. fear, locate object, produce fame, telekinesis', can use 
delayed blast fireball once per day; gate ld6 red, ld4 blue, ld2 
green, or 1 gray slaad (2/day, 50% chance). 





? 169 ? 
































? 170 ? 













? 171 ? 






























? 172 ? 


















? 173 ? 











? 174 ? 
















? t75 ? 

























? 170 ? 























Shaft of light 


Magical corridor 


Arrival point 


Storeroom 


Bonee 


Container of goo 


Storeroom 


Plant 


Cheeeboard 


<<<width of one s<\uare>>> 10 feet (where applicable) 


































































e ru x 


.<<< width 


jie_g_quare>>> 


Tree trunk 


Portal to Ranaia 


The Dewcollectorayy 


SfheVintnere 


Miksgal^iB 

!3j 4& a BE!L f our ! 5 £ uar V; c 


Tannery 


¦The Market 


Woodworker 

Guild 


VO^WT 

Laibor'a Livery. 


J^rgaa 3ol, 5mith 


Slaughterhouae 


5torehouaea 


Portal to Naphraka 


Li Q 



















- JU| 'Wtoo "MJ JO spjvzijvi JO AJtipisqnt • si 3U| USI I 
V S n u ! "P"W P*AJ"**M swjfliu IIV g"l USI 46610 

saoo avaa loioxxxiraz 


Godeep 


Kilsek 


Aleval^ 


Noble Gate 


Erelh* 


vsr^v 


Merchant villa 


Lower Vault 


Fungi forest 


Wall with tower 


x The Female , 
Fighters* Society. 


Troglodyte tunnels 


Warehouses 


Bugbear caves! [ 


THC VAULT Of THC DR(c)W 


1000 feet 


Twidtl^fonesquare>>^ 


t 












D e(r)pana 


Alcvalq // 


iff Flying Bridge Everhate 


Noble Gate 


Erelhei-Cinlu 


The Male Fighter(r)' 

Guard. 


Window 


The Black Tower 


Road 




< < <width of one (r)<^uare> >>10 feet 


[Guard: 


tMcetini 
ft room I 


Guard(r) 













c 



<<<width of one aquane>>> 10 feet 


Yanthii 


fez 


BadirH 






































































































w 

y nivsTCRies (c)f 

TH€ ST0NCS 


Hidden stone 


Fifth (c)tone 


Third stone 


Fourth stone 


ft*' TH-ttr 


(c)tD CHURCH 


































( 





kJk. JN 



































¦'TTTT'T 



if* : 

Salienci 


Portal 


Set's Realm 


Portal 


Ranais 




Portal > 
To 

Naphraks 


Portal - 
To The 
Realm of 
The Norns 








































9UT (c)f THE DARKNESS 


INT(c) THE LIGHT 




Chapter IV 

Message from Thanatos 


Chapter V 

The Bottom of the Multiverse 


Chapter VI 

The Vault of the Prow 


Chapter VII 
The Ruins of Pelion 


Chapter VIII 

Deepest Pandemonium 

v pm ¦ 


Chapter IX 
|The Dead - Book of the Gods 




Chapter I 
Circean Embers 





























9 780786 907113 

Sug. Retail. 
U S. $29.95 CAN $39 95 


DCLUXC ADVCN + URS 


- ' - *V S 

Z. • %•. - 

j - ' v & 

i' * 

Wr. | 
















































