Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09019 1 E Adventure D 1 Descent Into The Depths Of The Earth ( 9 11)"
See other formats
Dungeon Module D1 
Descent Into the Depths of the Earth 


by Gary Gygax 


This module contains background informalion, a large-scale referee's map with a matching partial map 
for players, referee's notes, special 
explorat ion and encounter pieces, a large map detailing a cavern area, encounter and map matrix keys, 
and an additional section pertaining to a 
unique new creature for use with this module and the game as a whole. A complete setting for play of 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS is contained herein. This module can be played alone, as the first part of a series of three 
modules (with SHRINE OF THE 
K L'O-'TOA, 1)2, and I 'A L'LT OE THE DRO II , I)>), or as the fourth part of a continuing series of modules 
which form a special 
progressive campaign scenario (DUNGEON MODULES Gl, G2, (13,1)1,1)2,1)3, andQl, QUEEN OE THE 
DEMON WEB 

TITS, soon to be released). 

If you have found this module and its companions exciting, stay tuned for more action from The Game 
Wizards! 



(c)1978, TSR Games 


Printed in the U.K. 
under licence from BY 
TSR HOBBIES, INC. 



femes B^oRksbop 

1 Dalling Road 
London W6 


TSRD1 
















LARGE SCALE MAP: 1 HEX = 1 MILE 



Encounter Area Detailed in a Module of this Series' 

Major Encounter Area as Described Above' 

Encounter Area to be Designed by DM or in a Forthcoming Module' 
Major Encounter Area as Described Above' 

Waters of the Sunless Sea 
Islands of the Sunless Sea 


'not shown to scale 



Primary Passage 
Secondary Passage 
Tertiary Passage 
Secret (Tertiary) Passage 
Underground River (80' to 240' wide) 


Area Shaded is Shown on Players' Map 






Dungeon Module D1 
Descent Into the Depths of the Earth 

by Gary Gygax 

This module contains background information , a large-scale referee's map with a matching partial map 
for players , referee's notes , special 
exploration and encounter pieces , a large map detailing a cavern area , encounter and map matrix keys 
, and an additional section pertaining to a 
unique new creature for use with this module and the game as a whole. A complete setting for play of 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS is contained herein. This module can be played alone , as the first part of a series of three 
modules (with SHRINE OF THE 
KUO-TOA , D2, and VAULT OF THE DROW, D3f or as the fourth part of a continuing series of modules 
which form a special 
progressive campaign scenario (DUNGEON MODULES GL G2 , G3, Dl, D2 , D3, and Qf QUEEN OF THE 
DEMONWEB 

BITS , soon to be released). 

If you have found this module and its companions exciting , stay tuned for more action from The Game 
Wizards! 


(fiaraes l^oRksbop 

1 Dalling Road 
London W6 


£ 


(c)1978, TSR Games 


Printed in the U.K. 
under licence from 
TSR HOBBIES, INC. 





Advanced Dungeons A Dragons 

Dungeon Module #D1 

Descent Into the Depths of the Earth 

Background: The final confrontation with the giant, King Snurre, 
and the entry of mighty adventurers into the caverns under his 
stronghold (DUNGEON MODULE G3, HALL OF THE FIRE GIANT 
KING) discovered that Dark Elves, the Draw, had instigated the 
giant alliance and its warfare upon mankind and its allied races. 
Numbers of these evil elves fell before the onslaught of the party of 
adventurers, but many of the important Drow fled away to the 
northwest-the escape route a seemingly natural passage a full 
30' wide extending endlessy under the earth. Investigation of this 
area (cloaked by a steaming river of lava) revealed that the 
passage ran due northwest, slowly descending ever deeper into 
the bowels of the earth. A pair of hoists on either side of the river of 
lava enable the members of the party to safely move supplies, 
equipment, and even mules across the dangerous area without 
any difficulties. Pursuit of these creatures is necessary, for unless 
their location and strength are known, the Drow can continue to 
strike where and whenever they like without fear of counterattack 
or reprisal. Fortunately, the party discovered a map of the maze of 
tunnels under the earth-hundreds of miles of passages, areas 
shaded and marked with cryptic symbols, and what is most 
probably the course of an underground river! But such an 
expedition will certainly require the utmost thought and care in 
planning and preparation. How many persons should comprise 
the expedition? how will they be supplied and equipped? and 
what of drinking water? Perhaps certain of the elvenfolk will help, 
for the Drow besmirch and stain their race, and such aid- 
whether in magical items, personnel, or both-might well prove 
the difference between success and failure, life and death. For 
who knows who or what will be encountered in this gloomy 
underground world? How will the monstrous opponents sure to 
be met there be dealt with and defeated? These questions and 
more must be answered before the party sets forth on its DESCENT 
INTO THE DEPTHS OF THE EARTH. 

Unlike the expeditions against the giants, no compulsion is 
placed upon adventurers to undertake this journey. While it is 
voluntary, there is also possible co-operation from avenging elves 
eager to wipe out the Drow. The going will be hard, interference of 
unexpected sorts is likely, and the return journey could be a 
nightmare if the party is incautious in its descent, seriously 
weakened along the way, or hotly pursued on the way back. If the 
goal is scores of leagues distant, the trip must be thought of as 
going and returning both. The wise will not act rashly . . . 

CAUTION: Those familiar with the previous modules in this scenario will be 
aware that they are designed for play only by players of above-average ability 
who have characters of high level - 9th or 10th minimum, counting multi- 
classed characters as roughly equal to a single classed character two levels 
higher than the multi-classed character's higher level (three levels if the 
character is triple classed). Judging from test play, a relatively small party can 
succeed only if this module is played alone or if they can return periodically to 
some base in order to recover and regain spells and equipment. This is as true of 
very powerful characters as it is of lesser ones . The module is designed for 
characters of about 1 Oth level, with a party size of 7 to 9. If the players you 
plan to have adventure herein are of lesser level, or they lack numbers or magic 
items, there must be some "elven aid" available. Be sure to read this whole 
module and the other two (SHRINE OF THE KUO-TOA and VA ULT 
OF THE DROW) before deciding on how much the "elves" will volunteer. 
Too much is as'bad as none at all, and both extremes are bad for game 
enjoyment. 

Start: The passageway from the caverns beneath the Hall of King 
Snurre Iron Belly runs to the northwest, rough and twisting, from 12' 
to 16' width for some 300 '. Then it suddenly widens to 30' and 
more in places, obviously hewn, and goes almost perfectly 
northwest, slowly sinking in gentle slopes and by natural terraces. 
(Use the large-scale hex map of the whole underground 
complex in conjunction with the piece showing the three widths 
of passages for the initial and subsequent travel and exploration. 


Also place the party near the center of a passage of the 
appropriate width, turning the section as desired, whenever a 
random encounter occurs.) You will note that the sample 
sections show there are faults, spurs, splits, rubble, small cave 
areas, sink holes, crevasses, columns, stalactites, and stalag 
mites. Most areas are damp and dripping. There are occasional 
pools, rivulets, even streams. The rock is of ail colors, although 
grays, browns, and yellowish tan are most common. Parts of the 
route are worked, but much of the tunnel will be natural passages, 
caves, galleries, etc. The route always descends. Fortunately, the 
darkness is not total, for there are sometimes patches of phos 
phorescent lichens to light the way with a faint glow-almost like 
faerie fire. There are also swarms of fire beetles now and again, 
and their glowing abdomens shed sufficient light to see clearly. 
Cave bats will flutter overhead periodically, huge ugly things 
which have forsaken the clean air of the upper world for the foul 
atmosphere of the subterranean. (Should the party ever remain 
still and listen, they will note many strange sounds-twitterings, 
squeakings, scrabblings. Various and sundry tiny noises will be 
heard, noises which are disturbing despite their muted sound.) 
Now and again a current of dank, cold air can be felt, moving 
downwards and bearing a musty scent throughout the corridors 
of this dismal underworld. 



Notes For The Dungeon Master Only 

Travel along the tunnels will be at a slow rate due to the slippery 
and sometimes slanting floors. Footing is treacherous in places, 
and the tiers to clamber down are sometimes nearly 3' from top to 
bottom. If mules are taken, they will not slow progress at all, as 
they are sure-footed and can negotiate the passageways with 
relative ease. The rubble and detritus, natural projections, 
protrusions, ledges, and stone "icicles" are more pronounced 
and prove hazardous only in the secondary and tertiary tunnels 
which are lesser traveled than the main arteries of the lightless 
world. ASSUME THE MAXIMUM RATE OF TRAVEL IS 1 MILE (1 hex) PER 
DAY PER 1" OF BASIC MOVEMENT RATE OF THE SLOWEST MEMBER OF 
THE EXPEDITION, only if unnecessary delays and careful map 
making are avoided. Reduce movement by 1 mile for every hour 
of delay, and assume that careful mapping will slowthepartyto6 
miles per day maximum. 

You may have crevasses and sinkholes as often as is illustrated 
with the tunnel pieces, or you may include such hazards every 
mile or so. There is certainly a chance for a slip and fall into a 
crevasse if proper care is not exercised by the party. Crevasses 
are 110'-300' deep, so consider any fall as fatal if it is not 


2 







prevented in some way. Adventurers roped together, using poles 
to hold onto, etc. are not likely to slip. Otherwise, consider there is 
a 1 in 20 chance of slipping when trying to move around or 
otherwise pass over a crevasse. Any such slip will precipitate a 
fatal fall. Sink holes are 10'-80' deep. While there is no real chance 
of slipping into them, if the party is running in haste or traveling 
without light, treat sink holes as pits, with a 1 in 3 (1-2 on d6) 
chance of falling in. Damage thus sustained is 1 d6 per 10'. 

Ceiling height in the primary tunnels ranges from 20' to 50', the 
average being about 35'. In the secondary passages the roof 
overhead varies from 15' to 40' above the floor, with 25' being 
usual. In the narrow tertiary tunnels the ceiling is from 8' to 25' high, 
with an average of 15' or so. Where enlargements occur, the roof 
will be near maximum height. In large caves or caverns, the 
ceiling height will be 10' to 20' above normal maximum. Note that 
in the huge cavern where the module concludes, the ceiling 
height is 100', 150' and as high as 200' in the center of the western 
cavern section. Before players find this place, however, there are 
two encounter areas they must contend with. 

The first encounter area is hex D3. It cannot be avoided. This Drow 
"checkpoint" will be detailed fully hereafter. The second 
encounter area can be avoided by taking a circuitous route of 
secondary and tertiary passages. Hex Ml 2 is a secret advanced 
post for lllithid (mind flayer) expansion in the area-a place the 
Drow are aware of, and if the expedition kills the mind flayers and 
prove their deed to any Drow they happen to meet, it is 90% 
probable that the Dark Elves will be friendly with the party despite 
any past conflicts, and if the adventurers express an interest, give 
them a black madallion-the pass which will enable them to go 
through Drow areas without undue questioning or molestation! 

To reiterate some of the information contained in DUNGEON 
MODULE G3, the Drow are (chaotic) evil elves, driven from the 
upper world by the good elves. They bear undying enmity for all 
surface dwellers in general and elvenkind in particular. They area 
handsome race, but most depraved. The females are better 
looking and generally more powerful than males. All Drow wear 
specially woven black cloaks and soft black boots which make 
them 75% likely to move silently and be able to hide in shadows, 
even when observed, when in a dungeon or dungeon-like setting. 
Any wearer of these garments gains this advantage if they are of 
the Drow size and build-if larger or smaller, the garments will 
necessarily have to be altered by a Drow tailor. Drow weapons 
an,d armor are usually crafted from metal which is an adamantite 
alloy. Although these items do not radiate any magic, they are 
magical in effect. 

All noted encounter areas will be handled by the DM with great 
care. Antagonists of the party will react and act in organized 
fashion-the Drow and lllithids with great cunning and clever 
ness, the inhabitants of the terminal cavern encounter not quite 
so intelligently, but with vigor and purpose. (This, of course, 
excludes both the Drow watchers and the stupid creatures in the 
place and applies to the trolls, bugbears, troglodytes, etc.) 

There are separate tables for random encounters in the tunnels, 


each table according to the category of the tunnel the party is 
marching through or encamped in, and for wandering monster 
encounters in the module termination area, "The Warrens of the 
Troglodytes". These tables are given hereafter. Generally, one 
check for a random encounter will be made for each mile of 
tunnel traveled through, with one check per hour being made in 
the terminal area, and one check per night being made when 
the expedition encamps for a "night's" rest. The probabilities of 
such an encounter vary according to the locale and are shown 
on each table. 

You will observe that only piece II is used for encounters listed 
here. The other two pieces are simply added for use as desired 
when random encounters with wandering monsters occur. They 
can also be used for the other two modules in this series. If you 
desire larger encounter pieces, feel free to draw up your own in 
any manner which you believe superior, but be sure that such 
pieces generally conform to the circumstances of the module or 
encounter. 

Referees should note the inclusion of the new creature, the 
Jermlaine, a potentially dangerous nuisance monster which can 
be used to interesting effect elsewhere as well. Full information 
regarding the Dark Elves is given in DUNGEON MODULE G3. 

Despite the difficulty of the two encounter areas prior to the 
terminal one, this module is not as difficult and demanding as 
was HALL OF THE FIRE GIANT KING, for example. Just as STEADING 
OF THE HILL GIANT CHIEF prepared the players for the successively 
greater challenges of the next two modules, DESCENT' introduces 
players to a new environment and the hazards ahead in the 
succeeding parts of the whole. There is plenty of danger, though, 
and any party bent on self-destruction can accomplish the task 
with relative ease. 

As with any Dungeon Mastering, you must always be fair and as 
unbiased as possible. Do not penalize the party if they take 
sensible steps to insure a successful adventure, such as deciding 
to take a number of pack mules to carry supplies and equip 
ment-even an extra spell book. Neither help by suggestion or 
inference nor hinder in any manner not called for. Managing a 
party with mules can be trying for a referee, but it is probable that 
these beasts will be slain at the first encounter area anyway. As 
there is no practical way of establishing any sort of route camp to 
safely store goods of any sort, the players will be presented with a 
great problem in any event, for BEYOND THE FIRST ENCOUNTER 
AREA TELEPORTATION OVER ANY DISTANCE GREATER THAN ONE- 
HALF MILE WILL BE IMPOSSIBLE! INFORM ANY CHARACTERS WITH 
THIS ABILITY THAT THEY CAN "FEEL MAGNETIC FORCES" WHICH THEY 
KNOW WILL CERTAINLY PREVENT NORMAL TELEPORTATION. Thus, 
short of the use of a wish, the party is committed to go and return 
afoot. They may have to return to the surface after concluding this 
module, or they may be able to press on, for the treasures along 
the way are aimed at supplying them with the force necessary to 
continue, and certain creatures have been placed in order that 
they may offer assistance or succor. 

Here are the bones of the adventure. You must breathe life into 
this framework after you flesh it out. 



3 


RANDOM MONSTER TABLES FOR PASSAGES 

Encounters occur as shown; check each hex (1 mile): 

Primary Passage. 1 in 10 chance of encountering a monster 

1. Drow patrol, males 

2. giant slug (50%)/purple worm (50%) 

3. 1-4 trolls with 9-16 troglodytes 

4. 2-5 ghasts with 9-16 ghouls 

5. rust monster (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

6. Drow merchants, small train 

7. Drow patrol, females 

8. beholder (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

9. Drow merchants, medium train 

10. gas spore (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

11. 3-12 shadows (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

[12, gas spore (50%]f/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

13. 3-18 gargoyles (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

14. Drow patrol, mixed 

15. yellow mold (33-1/3%)/brown mold (33-1/3%)/ 
green lime (33-1/3%) 

16. 19-24 bugbears with 25-30 slaves 

17. Drow merchants, large train 

18. 2-5 wererats with 1-2 lllithids 

19. black pudding (33-1/3%)/ochre jelly (33-1/3%)/ 
gray ooze (33-1/3%) 

20. Drow patrol, mixed 



Drow patrol: There are three types of Drow patrols, male, female, 
and mixed. The composition of each type is: 


Secondary Passage. 1 in 12 chance of encountering a monster 

1. 5-8 shriekers 

2. 2-5 giant spiders (66-2/3%)/1-4 phase spiders (33-1/3%) 

3. Drow patrol, mixed 

4. Drow merchants, small train 

5. lurker above (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

6. 4-16 shadows (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

7. giant slug (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

8. 2 subterranean lizards (huge, +4 h.p. per die) 

9. bulette (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

10. 5-20 piercers (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

11. rust monster (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

12. Drow patrol, mixed 

13. 2-5 ghasts with 9-16 ghouls 

14. 1-3-18 bugbears with 19-24 slaves 

15. purple worm (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

16. 2-5 ropers (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

17. Drow merchants, medium train 

18. Drow patrol, males 

19. 2-8 wererats with 1-4 lllithids 

20. 1-4 shriekers with 1-4 violet fungi 


Tertiary Passage. 1 In 12 chance of encountering a monster 

1. lurker above (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

2. 2-5 xorn (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

3. Drow patrol, mixed 

4. 1-2 umber hulks (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

5. 15-30 jermlaine 

6. rust monster (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

7. 5-20 piercers (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

8. green slime (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

9. 11-30 giant ants 

10. 15-30 jermlaine 

11. vampire (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

12. 2-5 lllithids 

13. Drow merchants, small train 

14. 5-20 piercers 

15. slithering tracker (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

16. lich (50%)/13-30 jermlaine (50%) 

17. 1-4 shambling mounds (50%)/2-8 shriekers (50%) 

18. Drow patrol, males 

19. 11-30 giant ants (50%)/2-5 fire beetles (50%) 

20. trapper 


Males: There will be 7-10 fighters of 2nd level (H.P.: 9 each; +1 
chain mail, +1 buckler, +1 for 15 dexterity, for an overall AC of 
1) with +1 dagger, +1 short sword, and hand crossbow (6" 
maximum range) and 10 poisoned bolts (1-3 h.p. of 
damage, save vs. poison at -4 or sleep for 3-12 turns). Each 
can use the equivalent of a dancing lights, darkness, and 
faerie fire spell (at 2nd level) once per day per spell. They will 
be led by a 4th level fighter (H.P.: 18; +2 chain mail, +2 buckler, 
+2 for 16 dexterity, for an overall AC of -2) with +1 dagger, +1 
short sword, atlatl and 3 poisoned javelins (9" range, 
+1/+2/+3 to hit at long, medium, and short range, 2-7 h.p. 
damage plus poison as above). He is also able to use the 
spells noted above. The patrol will be commanded by a 
fighter/magic-user of 5th/5th level (H.P.: 23; +2 chain mail, +2 
buckler, +3 for dexterity of 17, for an overall AC of -3) with +2 
dagger and +2 short sword. He will have the following spells in 
addition to those noted above: 

First Level: comprehend languages, detect magic*, 
magic missile (x2), sleep 

Second Level: know alignment*, levitate', mirror image, 
web 


Third Level: fireball 


'innate power of Drow over 4th level 

Females: There will be 7-10 fighters of 3rd level (HP.: 15 each; 
+1 chain,+1 shield,+2for dexterity of 16,for an overallAC of 0). 
They are armed as are males. Each can use the equivalent of 
clairvoyance, dancing lights, darkness, detect lie, dispel 
magic, faerie fire, and suggestion spells (at 3rd level) once 
per day per spell. They will be led by a 5th level fighter (H.P.: 25; 
+2 chain mail, +2 buckler, +2 for dexterity of 16, for an overall 
AC of -2) with +2 dagger, +2 short sword, atlatl and 3 
poisoned javelins. She can use the spell powers noted above 
plus detect magic, know alignment, and levitate. The patrol 
commander will be a female cleric of 7th level (H.P.: 35; +3 
chain mail, +3 buckler, +3 for dexterity of 17, for an overall AC 
of -5) with +3 mace. She will have the following cleric spells in 
addition to those powers noted for the 5th level commander: 

First Level: cause light wounds, cure light wounds 
(x2), fear 

Second Level: hold person (x2), silence 15' radius 
Third Level: cause blindness, prayer 


Fourth Level: tongues 


4 







Mixed: Mixed patrols will always contain 2 2nd level male 
fighters and a 4th level fighter with the same statistics as 
shown above for a patrol of male Drow. With the Draw will be a 
number of lesser (by Drow standards) creatures to bear the 
brunt of any fighting. The type of creatures and number are as 
follows: 

PRIMARY PASSAGE: 


Die 

Creatures 

1-3 

11-16 bugbears (H.P.: 15 each) with ring mail 
jacks and large shields (AC 3) and each armed 
with heavy morning stars (+2 on damage) and 

2 heavy spears. One will be a leader (HP.: 24) 
attacking as a 4 hit dice monster and adding +1 
to damage from all weapon hits he scores. 

4-5 

2 trolls and 11-16 troglodytes (HP.: 9 each) 
armed with a stone battle axe and 3 javelins 
each. One will be a leader with 3 hit dice (H.P.: 14) 
and carry a sword and 3 javelins. 

6 

4 ghasts and 7-12 ghouls. 

SECONDARY PASSAGE: 

Die 

Creatures 

1 

11-14 bugbears as above. 

2-5 

2 trolls and 11-16 troglodytes as above. 

6 

4 ghasts and 7-10 ghouls. 

TERTIARY 

PASSAGE: 

Die 

Creatures 

1-3 

2 trolls and 7-10 troglodytes as above. 

4-6 

4 ghasts and 5-8 ghouls. 


Drow merchants: Each Drow merchant is male and a 
cleric/fighter of 4th/4th level (HP.: 18; +3 chain mail, +3 
buckler, +1 for dexterity of 15, for an overall AC of-3). Each is 
armed with a +2 mace. They have the following spells: 


Train 

Size 

Number of 
Merchants 

Guards and Level 

Slave 

Bearers 

Pack 

Lizards 

sm. 

1-2 

2 2nd, 1 4th, plus 

4 bugbears 

5-8 

1-2 

med. 

3-4 

6 2nd, 2 4th, plus 

8 bugbears 

9-16 

3-4 

ig- 

5-8 

12 2nd, 3 4th, plus 
16 bugbears 

17-24 

&9 


Slave bearers: will be a mixture of captives. The exact mixture 
can be determined as follows: 


Die Roll 

Race of Slave 

1 

bugbear 

2 

dwarf 

3 

elf 

4-5 

gnoll 

6 

goblin 

7 

half-elf 

8-9 

half-ore - - - 

10-12 

hobgoblin - 

13-17 

human - ~. 

18-19 

ore 

20 

troglodyte - 


Bearers are always leg chained in files of up to 6. Bugbear 
and troglodyte slaves are former servants who are enslaved 
for disobedience, committing some error, etc. 

Pack Lizards: These creatures are a breed of subterranean 
lizard-slow, sturdy, strong, stupid, and not easily panicked. 
The statistics on these creatures are: 

ARMOR CLASS: 5 
MOVE: 9" 

HIT DICE: 6+6 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-8 

SIZE: L (15' long, broad backed) 

These creatures seldom will attack anything unless harmed 
first. Their loads are carried on special back harnesses. 


First Level: cure light wounds (x2), detect magic 
Second Level: hold person, speak with animals 

In addition, they have the usual Dark Elven spell-like abilities 
of dancing lights, darkness, and faerie fire once each per 
day at 4th level of experience. 

The size of the train determines the components. The guards 
will conform to the same level of fighter found in a patrol of 
male Drow, or mixed patrol with respect to bugbears. 



Goods Carried: In addition to the normal (relatively 
worthless) goods (cloth, leathers, wood, foodstuffs, wine, 
etc.) typically found in a Drow merchants' train, there is a 
chance that some valuable items will be carried. The chance 
is 30% for a small, 45% for a medium, and 75% for a large train. 
If valuable items are indicated, roll on the following table, 
once for a small train, twice for a medium train, thrice for a 
large train: 

Dice Roll _ Treasure _ 

01-45 110-300 silver ingots, 100 g.p. weight each 

46-75 31-50 gold ingots, 100 g.p. weight each 

76-80 5-10 platinum ingots, 100 g.p. weight each 

81-83 2-5 mithril bars, 100 g.p. weight each* 

84-85 1-4 adamantite bars, 100 g.p. weight each** 

86-89 1-100 base 50 g.p. value gems 

90-94 5-12 potions 

95-98 1-4 scrolls 

99 1 ring or rod/staff/wand 

00 1 miscellaneous magic item 

"value in the underworld only is 2,500 g.p./bar 
* 'value in the underworld only is 4,000 g.p./bar 

Drow Treasure: Unless stated otherwise, each Drow will have 
1-4 p.p. per level of experience, 2-8 p.p. per level if multi- 
classed. Each Drow merchant will have an equal number of 
gold pieces as well, and 1-4100 g.p. base value gems. Each 
Dark Elf above 4th level, as well as each merchant, will have 
either a black metal medallion on a fine metal chain (75%) 


5 


or both a medallion and a special broach (25%). These pins 
are always well hidden on the person of the merchant. Dice 
for which particular broach type is possessed, all merchants 
in a train having the same kind: 

Die Roll Description of Broach ___ 

1 blue enameled prism 

2 white enameled morel mushroom 

3 bronze coiled whip 

4 silver crescent 

5 tan enameled puffball mushroom 

6 iron hook, black 

7 russet enameled shelf fungi 

8 brass chain links (3) 

9 yellow enameled mushrooms (2) 

10 pewter bars (4) 

11 violet enameled urn 

12 pink enameled horsetail mushroom 

13 red enameled gem 

14 lilac enameled star of 5 points 

15 green enameled lozenge 

16 white enameled bone 



Special Note Regarding Draw Cloaks, Armor, and Weapons: All 

of these items have special properties, although none of them 
radiate any magic. The items are made under the conditions 
particular to the strange homeland of the Draw, for this place has 
unknown radiations which impart special properties to these 
cloaks, armor and weapons. When such items are exposed to 
direct sunlight a rotting process sets in. The process is absolutely 
irreversible, and within 2 weeks cloaks will fall to shreds, while 
armor and weapons become pitted and unusable. If items are 
not exposed to sunlight, they will retain their magical properties 
for 31-50 days before losing them, and if they are exposed to the 
radiation of the Drow homeland 30 or so days, they will remain 
potent. Items not spoiled by sunlight will eventually lose their 
special properties if not exposed to the special radiation, but they 
will remain serviceable as normal cloaks, armor, shields, swords, 
maces, etc. 

Drow sleep poison decays instantly in sunlight. Its power is lost 
after about 60 days in any event, and the coating on the small 
bolts and javelins must be periodically renewed with fresh 
applications of the fungoid substance. The Dark Elves will often 
have small barrels filled with several packets of this poison, each 
sealed to insure the poisonous substance remains fresh for about 
1 year. 

Troll and troglodyte groups are Drow servants, usually 
checking on something specific or going to report for service. 

Ghast and Ghoul groups are Drow-connected. They report to 
the female Drow nobles and serve the deily of the Drow. 

Bugbear and slave groups are maintenance crews going 
about their duties of clearing paths and passages blocked 
by rockfalls or anything else. 

Beholders are generally friendly with the lllithids and will aid 
them. 

Shadow groups are spies for the Drow, for they are the major 
creations of the Drow deily. 

Wererat and llllthid groups are exploring and observing, as 
the latter wish to expand into this area despite Drow 
resistance to this aim, although they do not wish any open 
conflict at this time. 


ENCOUNTER AREA D3 


Use encounter piece II for this meeting, facing either end of the 
piece in a southeast-northwest direction to conform to the 
passageway. The area is south of the tunnel nexus. It is dimly 
illuminated by phosphorescent lichens. 

This is a Drow checkpoint with two separate patrol groups, males 
to the left, females to the right. The males will have 2 pickets out on 
duty to observe the passage in both directions. Despite rivalry, 
each will co-operate fully with the other in an intelligent attack 
and defense pattern. The two groups are detailed below. 


Drow Male Contingent: There are 10 male fighters of 3rd level to 
the southwest, 2 of whom are on guard duty and will report the 
presence of any creatures moving along the passage. Other 
than having 13 hit points each and AC 0 (because of 16 dexterity 
each), they are the same as a male Drow patrol, i.e. +1 short 
swords and +1 daggers and carrying hand crossbows and using 
dancing lights, darkness, and faerie Are (at 3rd level) once per 
day per spell, there are 2 4th level fighters as leaders (H.P.: 18; 
AC-2) with +2 short sword, +2 dagger, and atlatl and 3 javeljnS. The 
commander of the unit is a 6th level fighter (H.P.: 28; +3 chain mail, 
+3 buckler, +3 for dexterity of 17, for an overall AC of-3) armed with 
+2 dagger, +4 short sword, and hand crossbow with 10 poisoned 
bolts. His liaison is a noble fighter/magic-user of 5th/7th level (H.P.: 
33; +4 chain mail, +3 for dexterity of 17, for an overall AC of-2) with 
+2 dagger, +2 short sword, and a rope of entanglement, with a 
hand crossbow and bolts hanging from his belt. His spells are: 

First Level: detect magic*, magic missile <x2), sleep, 
ventriloquism 

Second Level: detect invisibility, know alignment*, levi 
tate*, mirror image, ray of enfeeblement 


Third Level: lightning bolt, slow 
Fourth Level: ice storm 

'innate power of Drow over 4th level and in 
addition to dancing lights, darkness, and 
faerie fire (at 7th level) 


Drow Female Contingent: There are 8 female fighters of 2nd level 
(H.P.: 10 each; +1 chain mail, +1 buckler, +2 for dexterity of 16, for 
an overall AC of 0) armed with +1 dagger, +1 short sword, hand 
crossbow and 10 poisoned bolts. They have 2 fighters of 3rd level 
(H.P.: 15 each; AC 0) with +1 short sword, +1 dagger, atlatl and 3 
javelins. Each fighter can use the following spell-like powers each 
once per day: clainroyance, dancing lights, darkness, detect 
lie, dispel qiagic, faerie fire, and suggestion. Two female clerics 
are in command of this group, a 6th level (canon) subordinate to 
a 9th level leader. 


Canon: This 6th level cleric (H.P.: 30; +3 chain mail, +3 buckler, +1 
for dexterity of 15, for an overall AC of -3) carries a +1 mace on her 
belt for her major weapon is a short-handled staff sling. This j 
weapon hurls missiles up to 9" distance (providing the ceiling 
overhead is at least 30' high), minimum range 3". Probability of a 
hit is normal for ranges out to 6", -2 thereafter. Misses with the 
special glass globe missiles (explained hereafter) will be 
calculated as hitting somewhere. Roll d8 and 3d6 (for determina 
tion of the distance in feet the shot is off): 1 = long over, 2 - long 
over right, 3 = wide right, 4 = short right, 5 = short, 6 = short left, 7 - 
wide left, and 8 = long over left. She has 3 glass globes filled with a , 

fluidwhich isaluminousirritantwhichvaporizestoformacloudof 

10' diameter with a 12' height. Note: Hits upon perpendicular • 
surfaces reduce the cloud to one-half normal diameter. 

Creatures in this vapor cloud are covered with droplets which 
make them shine and glow, thus causing a reduction of their j 
armor from 1-4 places, as they are easier to hit. This effect lasts | 
from 2-5 turns, or until the fluid is washed off. In addition, exposed ? 
creatures must save versus poison at -4 on their dice rolls; those | 
who fail are effectively blinded and out of action (scratching 


6 




furiously) for 7-10 melee rounds or until the eyes and body are 
doused to cleanse them of the Irritant (1 round plus 1 round 
recovery time in any event). She also has the following spells In 
addition to those powers noted above for female Drow fighters: 

First Level: cure light wounds (x3), curse, fear 

Second Level: hold person, know alignment*, levitate*, 
silence 15' radius, resist fire 

Third Level: animate dead, cure disease, detect 
magic* 

•innate power of Drow over 4th level 


black chain. Hidden at the bottom of one provision box is a bone 
tube belonging to Vlondril. It is a scroll of 7 cleric spells: find traps, 
neutralize poison (x2), tongues, cure critical wounds, heal, 
stone tell. 

If the commanders are slain and the bodies carefully searched, 
the following small broaches will be discovered: on the male 
magic-user, a small brass wand (inscribed in Drow runes, 
ALEVAL); on the female curate a small blue-black mace inscribed 
DESPANA; on the person of Vlondril (hidden in her hair) is a 
golden spider pin with engraved runes which say in Drowic, 
LOLTH, DEATH QUEEN MOTHER. 


Evil High Priestess: This 9th level cleric (H.P.: 48; +4 chain mail, 
+3 buckler, +3 dexterity bonus, for an overall AC of -6) is armed 
with a +4 mace and wears a special magical cloak under her 
normal black hooded robe. This device is a lurker cloak. It 
enables Vlondril, a special servant of the Fane, to assume the form 
and locomotion of a lurker above once per day for up to 2 hours 
time. Volation is at normal speed even though the cloak does 
not cause its wearer to grow to the actual size of a lurker above; 
size is about normal, i.e. 7' wing spread by 5W length in Vlondril's 
case. In addition to those spell-like powers given above for the 
female Drow fighters, Vlondril has the following spells available to 
her: 


First Level: 
Second Level: 

Third Level: 

Fourth Level: 
Fifth Level: 


bless, cure light wounds (x2), protection 
from good, fear (x2) 

augury (x2), hold person (x2), know 
alignment*, levitate*, silence 15* radius, 
snake charm 

continual darkness, cure disease, dispel 
magic*, prayer, speak with dead 

cure serious wounds, poison, tongues 
cure critical wounds 


•Innate power of Drow over 4th level 


If for any reason the Drow are seriously threatened, she will 
attempt to save herself by using her magical cloak to change 
into a lurker above and fly off without notice or being noticed, for 
she is charged with reporting to the Fane any significant event 
which transpires after the fall of Snurre, i.e. the ruin of Eclavdra's 
plans, for the latter is an opponent of the Fane. 

Treasure: Each Drow has a small leather pouch on his or her 
person. It will contain 1-4 platinum pieces per level of experience 
(the higher in the case of dual class). The Drow above 4th level will 
have 1 base 100 g.p. gem for each level above 4th contained in' 
this purse. 


The side caves contain only a few sparse items-sleeping silks, 
several small boxes of provisions, and individual kits with eating 
utensils, cup, etc. There are 2 black metal (adamantite alloy) 
medallions bearing a likeness of a spider on one side and a 
female Drow on the other. Each is suspended by a fine loop of 



ENCOUNTER AREA Ml 2 


Use encounter piece II, reversed, when this encounter occurs. This 
area is the westernmost spy post of the lllithids, one which the 
Drow are well aware of but do not care to deal with at this time 
due to the recent reverses suffered. As will be usual throughout the 
sunless world, phosphorescent lichens growing sparsely about 
the passages and caves here make it possible for normal vision 
to function at up to 10'. 

There are 12 ratmen working with the mind flayers here. 4 wererats 
are in the tunnel proper, 2 above the caves area, 2 below, about 
60' from the center. These watchers are in rat form, and they will 
scurry back to give warning if any creatures approach. These 
creatures have +1 Drow swords (short)-baldrics and hangers 
kept to either side of the passageway where their 8 fellows guard 2 
lllithids-4 to one side, 4 to the other. Hit points are: wererats 17 
each, mind flayers 43 and 38 respectively. 

The stronger lllithid is near the cave pool with a bound Drow 
merchant captive. The mind fiayer is questioning the Dark Elf 
about the current alliances, power groups, and feuds between 
the Drow clans and noble houses. If the lllithid gets any chance, 
he will kill the Drow so no tales can be carried by him. 

When the party is sighted, the ratmen will rush to warn their 
masters and fellows, and the 12 wererats will then ambush the 
party after 2 mind blasts are delivered-1 from each lllithid. The 
weaker will survey the melee, using psionic domination upon any 
character who approaches him, while the stronger returns to be 
ready to do away with the "evidence". As soon as the battle goes 
against their servants, the mind flayers will flee northwest, then 
northeast to the secondary passage northwest, and then into the 
secret tertiary adit to the northeast. 

Treasure: The wererats nest in the caves opposite those which 
contain the pool. In a small space-suitable for their rat size, but 
which must be crawled into by even so small a creature as a 
gnome-is a nest of animal skin, old cloth, bones, etc. Under this 
is a dull olive cloak (which does not radiate magic but could be 
valuable if trie party eventually attains module D3) which was 
amongst the Drow merchant's possessions. Each ratman has a 
gold ring set with a moonstone (value as jewelry, 400 g.p. each) 
as indication of service to the lllithids. Each wererat also has 30 
gold pieces. 

On the other side, the mind flayers have encamped in the alcove 
off the pool area. They have folding cots, a small table, 2 folding 
stools, some utensils, and hampers for food. Each has a small 
coffer of personal effects. Both coffers have poisoned needles in 
their latches. One contains a healing potion, a 5,000 g.p. gem, 
and 200 gold pieces. The other has a polymorph self potion, a 
scarab of death, a small silver disc which is evidentally a broach 
of some sort (Drow merchant clan, and useful in MODULE D3), 150 
gold pieces, and 58 platinum pieces. 

Hidden in a nook which is covered by a small boulder, is an iron 
chest. In it are 300 ingots of copper (100 g.p. weight each) and 
the same number of silver ingots.'These are used as bribes to 
subvert Drow servants. The handle of the chest lid is actually an 
iron scroll tube which contains a protection from undead scroll 
inside, and hidden in an inner lining, a protection from demons 
scroll. 


7 




KEY TO THE CAVERNS AND WARRENS 
OF THE TROGLODYTES 


Wandering Monsters: 

Encounter occurs 1 in 12, check each turn: 


Western Half 


Eastern Half 


1. Drow patrol, mixed 

2. Drow merchants' 

3. 2-8 gargoyles 

4. 2-5 trolls 


1. 7-18 troglodytes 

2. 2-12 bugbears 

3. 2-5 trolls 

4. 7-18 troglodytes 


' equal chances for small, medium, or large train 


1. ENTRANCE TO THE GRAND CAVERN: The terraced ledges lead 
down to the glistening floor of this huge cavern, the ceiling of 
which drips with stalactites, the floor with stalagmites, and 
here and there littered with broken stone-detritus and fallen 
stalactites. Thick columns and great masses of rock stretch all 
the way to the roof, with many protruding ledges and 
indented shelves here and there. This room of the cavern is 
200' to 300' wide, 200' long, and from 175' to 250' or more 
high. The following letter designations should be noted: 

B: There are 3 such positions. Each has 3 bugbear sentries 
(H.P.: 15 each; ring mail jacks and large shields for AC 3) 
armed with heavy morning stars (+2 on damage) and 2 
heavy throwing spears. If an enemy/intruder is detected, 2 
will attack while 1 goes to alert the others. 

D: There are 4 such positions. Each has 1 Drow fighter of 2nd 
level (H.P.: 8; +1 chain mail, +1 buckler, +1 for dexterity of 15, 
for an overall AC of 1) armed with +1 short sword, +1 
dagger, atlatl, and 3 javelins. If intruders are identified, the 
sentry sighting them will cast dancing lights to show the 
location and identity of the creatures. All are in positions 
where they can see at least one other sentry, and the 
others will be alerted. The sighting Drow fighter will report to 
his superiors at location 6. (q.v.), while the other 3 move to 
positions near the location where they can observe the 
intruders. 

2. SOUTH GALLERY: This passage is filled with mineral deposits 
from dripping water, and it is also the home of 14 piercers 
(H.P.: 4 with 4 hit dice have 19 h.p. each, 4 with 3 hit dice have 
13 h.p. each, 3 with 2 hit dice have 9 h.p. each, and 3 with 1 hit 
die have 5 h.p. each). They are near the middle of the place, 
and 1-3 will drop on each creature passing beneath. There Is 
no treasure. 

3. GLITTERING CAVE: This small cave is only about 8' high, and Its 
walls have many crystals which cause light to reflect and 
refract. The protruding crystals have no worth, but there Is a 


scattering of 121 base 10 g.p. crystal gems in the northern 
quarter of the cave-seemingly pieces which dropped from 
the walls. This is bdit for a trapper (H.P.: 73) with no treasure, as 
the Drow recently took it. 

4. SIDE CAVERN: This area has a high ceiling (90'), and many 
ledges and shelves along the south, east, and north curve of 
the cavern wall house 15 gargoyles (H.P.: 22 each) who perch 
at 65' to 80' heights to swoop down on prey and attack from 
behind. They will pursue northwards, where the roof of the 
gallery is high, but they do not go eastwards. They have no 
treasure. 

5. SPUR CAVERN: A very large purple worm (H.P.: 118) has 
recently moved into this place to lay her eggs, rest, and will 
then leave. There are 6 eggs in the northeast finger of the 
cavern, and they will hatch in 3 turns. The "proud mama" is 
resting. There is no treasure inside the worm, but there are 8 of 
her castings about the place, and the 6th contains 11 base 
100 gold piece gems, and 4 vials of holy water. 

6. CAVE: 14 Drow are located here to oversee any activities in the 
cavern as a whole, as well as to aid merchants or scout for 
invaders. 

Males: 4 2nd level (H.P.: 9 each; AC 1) armed with +1 

short sword, +1 dagger, and hand crossbow 
with 10 bolts are under command of a 4th level 
fighter (H.P.: 18; AC -2) armed with +2 short 
sword, +1 dagger, and hand crossbow with 10 
bolts. Each can cast dancing lights, dark 
ness, and faerie fire. 

Females: 8 3rd level (H.P.: 15 each; AC 0) armed with +1 

short sword, +1 dagger, and half have hand 
crossbows, the balance atlatl and 3 javelins. 
They are under command of a 6th level (H.P.: 30; 
+2 chain mail, +2 buckler,+4 for dexterity of 18, 
for an overall AC of -4) fighter who will yield their 
charge to the male commander if the position 
appears in jeopardy. She has +2 short sword, 
+2 dagger, and a death lance- a 10' spear 
which discharges a negative force when it hits, 
the force causing 3-12 hit points of damage in 
addition to normal (spear or lance) damage, 
and any opponent so struck must save versus 
poison or lose 1-4 life energy levels. The lance 
has 6 charges. This is the weapon she will take 
with her when she goes to the Drow area to the 
northwest to inform her superiors. Her mount is 
a nightmare (H.P.: 32) stabled at the back of 
the cave. Each female can cast clairvoyance, 
dancing lights, darkness, defect lie, dispel 
magic, faerie fire, and suggestion; the 
commander can also use detect magic, 
know alignment, and levitate. 


8 





Treasure: Each Drow carries a small leather bag or pouch in 
which 1-4 p.p. per level of experience are kept. The female 
commander will have 2 100 g.p. gems in addition to the 
coins. Hidden on her person is a small pin of bronze, a night 
mare's head with NOQUAR inscribed in Drowic on the reverse. 

The males sleep in the southern cave below 6., the females in 

6. proper. There is a bedroll of silks for each, and several boxes 
of provisions in each cave. There are a few personal eating 
and grooming items with each bedroll. There are some 
strange straps (harness) and wooden racks in the males' 
cave (gear for pack lizards), and long metal-hooked poles 
(guiding ankuses for the creatures) stand nearby. Con 
cealed under the dung and fungus bedding of the night 
mare's stall is a lead-lined hollow in the stone floor. It has a 
stone lid with a secret catch. Inside this cavity are 1,000 silver 
pieces in a wooden chest, 1,000 gold pieces in 10 leather 
bags, a belt which has 100 platinum pieces inside it, a pouch 
with 20 base 100 g.p. gems, 2 pieces of 5,000 g.p. value 
jewelry and a black metal chain and medallion (with 
spider/drow female figures) in an ivory case worth 250 g.p., 
and a leather case with 4 potions: healing, extra-healing, 
polymorph self, poison (if mixed with wine in an iron cup it 
gives the imbiber total poison resistance for 6 turns). The iron 
cup is in a corner of the cavity. 

7. SUNKEN CAVE: Two narrow flights of stair-like terraces lead 
downward about 20' to debouch into a low ceilinged cave 
which appears totally dark and deserted. This is an illusion, 
for it is the lair of a lich (66 hit points) with a +3 ring of 
protection (AC -3). This horrid creature normally rests on the 
ledge at the southern tip of the place. It will maintain the 
illusion and not attack any intruders unless they are using 
magic spells of any sort or are obviously detecting magic. He 
will then attack. The lich's spell level is 20; his spells are: 


First Level: 
Second Level: 
Third Level: 
Fourth Level: 
Fifth Level: 
Sixth Level: 
Seventh Level: 
Eighth Level: 
Ninth Level: 


burning hands, charm person, magic 
missile (x2), ventriloquism 

Invisibility, mirror image, ray of enfeeble- 
ment, web (x2) 

dispel magic, fireball, fly, lightning bolt, 
phantasmal force 

confusion, charm monster, dimension 
door, fumble, polymorph other 

cloudkill, cone of cold, hold monster, tele 
port, wall of force 

globe of invulnerability, invisible stalker, 
repulsion, flesh to stone 

limited wish, Mordenkainen's Sword, 
reverse gravity 

Bigby*$ Clenched Fist, Otto's Irresistible 
Dance, monster summoning VI 

time stop, power word kill 


(To determine which spell the lich will use, pick the best 
possible if he is in danger of being slain. Otherwise, roll dl 0 for 
level, 0 equalling a second roll of d6 for spell level. When level 



is found, roll a second die to determine which spell will be 
used, if necessary, or select the MOST LOGICAL spell.) 

Treasure: The lich, Asberdies, has cast 600 magic mouth 
spells in various portions of his lair-walls, floor, ceiling, and 
on stalacitites and stalagmites too. Therefore, magic 
detection will show virtually everyplace in the cave as 
radiating magic. The hollow where he lies is lined with silks 
and velvet cloths, but no treasure. Just a few feet northwest is a 
small ledge with a few broken stones. One of these has a 
hollow spot into which is thrust a folded-up portable hole. The 
hole contains a jeweled crown (80,000 g.p.), a gem-set orb 
(50,000 g.p.), and a scepter likewise encrusted with precious 
stones (65,000 g.p.) which were the lich's in life. They now bear 
a curse upon anyone possessing them. The magic will turn 
the individual or individuals into a wight after sickening and 
dying. The curse can only be removed by a cleric of 20th level. 
(The items will radiate both magic and evil if either or both are 
detected for.) Also in the hole are 1,000 gold pieces, 10 gems 
of 100 g.p. base value, a bag of dust of sneezing and 
choking, a staff of striking, a potion of longevity, a scarab of 
protection from evil clerics, and a scroll of 7 magic-user 
spells (knock, tongues, minor globe of Invulnerability, wall 
of ice, stone to flesh, charm plants, symbol (fear)). 

8. SIDE CAVERN: This place is similarto cavern 4. It has dozens of 
ledges and shelves at 70' or more above the cavern floor, and 
these places are the roosts of 23 gargoyles (H.P.: 22 each). 
These creatures greatly fear the Drow, and they will attack no 
creature with a Drow or wearing Drow garb, but they will 
attack any other creatures not so protected. They have no 
treasure. 

9. CAVERN STABLE: There are 6 pack lizards (H.P.: 33 each) 
tethered here near a mound of fungus fodder. The creatures 
are for use by merchants in need of their services. If anyone 
attempts to unchain them, they will attack the individual 
unless he or she carries a hooked goad which they recognize 
as the sign of mastership over them. 

10.-13. COMPLEX OF LOW CAVES: This is the temporary residence of a 
pack of ghasts and ghouls on their way northwest to serve the 
Drow. They do not wish to follow the broad and well-trafficked 
primary passages, so they will take the one to the northeast 
nearby as soon as the giant slug (14. below) moves on. The 
pack consists of: 

10. 32 ghouls (H.P.: 10 each) with 1-6 gold pieces each. 
11.4 ghasts (H.P.: 19 each) with 7 base 100 g.p. gems. 

12. 2 ghasts (H.P.: 24 each) with a sack containing 3 pieces 
of jewelry worth 5,000, 3000, and 1,800 g.p. respectively, 
and 2 tubes. One is a scroll of 3 cleric spells (cure light 
wounds, tongues, conjure animals (3 brown bears with 
28 h.p. each)). The other is a map showing the northeast 
passage and the tertiary route which connects to the 
primary northwest-southeast passage and encounter 
area SI 7-T17: the map shows the latter passages only as 
shown below. Draw this in for your players on their map. 

13. 4 ghasts (H.P.: 20 each) with 300 g.p. and 18 base 10 g.p. 
gems. 

14. GIANT SLUG: (H.P.: 87) This monster blends into the niche it has 
found beside the passageway northeast, where it initially 
rested to digest a meal and then decided to stay because of 
the excellent food su pply. (The Drow will soon get rid of it.) No 
treasure. 

15. 100' HIGH SHELF: 2 hieracosphinx (H.P.: 49, 43) are nested 
here awaiting the return of their Drow mistress and master. 
They will not attack unless some creature comes near them- 
say 20' or so-and will come to a name command only. They 
have no treasure, but one has a medallion with a staff of 
copper set round with 8 perfectly matched emeralds (24,000 
g.p. value) and the name EILSERVS in Drow characters 
engraved on the reverse. 


9 



16.-18. TROLL CAVES: These places are filled with a noisome mess of 
rotting carcasses, bones, sticks, excrement, pelts, etc. The 
trolls dwelling in these areas have moved all of their treasure 
to the tribe leader's lair at 32. 

16. 10 trolls (HP.: 29 each)./ 

17. 16 trolls (H.P.: 30 each).-/ 

18. 18 trolls (HP.: 31 each)^ 

Note: The stench of these caves is noticeable from 10' outside 
each cave. 

The trolls will move to support each other, the troglodytes, or 
the bugbears if they become aware of attack through 
information, noise, etc. 



19.-23. CAVE WARREN: This complex of caves and connecting 
passages serves as the lair of a large tribe of bugbears who 
are in indirect service to the Drow. They have been equipped 
with ring mail jacks and heavy, well-made morning stars (+2 
damage when a hit is scored) by their Dark Elf masters. (Cf. B 
above.) 

/19. 8 bugbears (HP.: 15 each) with 11 g.p. each %* ¦<*¦* 
t % 20. 8 bugbears (HP.: 16 each) with 14 g.p. each. 

¦ \ 21. 8 bugbears (HP.: 17 each) with 12 g.p. each. ' 

22. 12 bugbears (HP.: 18 each) with 19 g.p. each. i o ; 

*2 - /23. 14 bugbears (HP.: 16 each) with 13 g.p. each. 

24. HUGE CAVE: This is the den of 45 female bugbears (HP.: 9 

& each; fight as 1 +1 hit die monsters) and 62 young (3 hit points 

each, fight as Vi hit die monsters). There are 10 males here to 
guard the females and offspring. Each male has 15 hit points. 
Amidst the litter of bedding, food scraps, and junk is a chest 
with 683 c.p., 397 s.p., and 155 g.p. 

25. CHIEF'S DEN: Grubblik the chief (HP.: 30; chain shirt and large 
shield for AC 1) is a huge creature who attacks as a 4 die 
monster. With him is his son Bruzblid (HP.: 24; AC 2) who is a 
leader. Grubblik does +4 hit points damage when hitting, 
Bruzblid does +3. They have 2 females of large size (HP.: 14 
each) who fight as males. Their treasure is in a large ir on box 
with a lock (Bruzblid has the key). Inside are I^COOOi g.pXT 
piece of jewelry worth 6,000 g.p., and a poisonous'spTder 
which he feeds so to keep it there to bite anyone who places 
a hand inside. The spider bites 5 in 6 from its position inside 
the lid. Saving throw is at +2, but damage is 5-20 due to 
sickness from the spider's poison. 

/ 26. 12 bugbears (HP.: 15 each) with 15 g.p. each.*: ' 

27. SUB-CHIEF'S CAVE: Ruddug (HP.: 25; chain shirt and large 
shield for AC 1) is nearly as large as the chief. He fights as a 4 
hit dice monster and does +3 on any damage scored. With 
him are two personal guards, each with 22 hit points, scale 
jacks and large shields (AC 2), and doing +3 hit points of 


damage when a hit is scored upon an opponent. Ruddug 
likes cloth, so his quarters are a mess of piles, bolts, and bales 
of such material. Hidden on a high ledge behind a stone is a 
a bag with 450 s.p., 139 g.p., 18 p.p., and 7 base value 50 g.p. 
gems. 

28.-30. These areas designate the warrens of the troglodytes. (See 
also 36.-38. 8c T.) Here the tunnel ceilings are only about 6' 
high, and the caves themselves not much more spacious. AJI 
of these trogs are one tribe, and they work in co-operation 
with the trolls and bugbears. The co-operation is demanded 
by the Dark Elves, of course, but the inhabitants of the place 
have found that they are all prospering through mutual aid, 
so they now come willingly to each other's assistance. Nearly 
everything used by the trogs is made of stone or fashioned 
from bone. They have a few possessions of wood, leather, or 
cloth, but such items are rare. 

T. UNIT DEN: Each unit den holds a small amount of 
troglodyte goods-valueless junk piled into a nest, and 
/ no treasure-and a male, female, and 2 hatchling trogs 
(HP.: 11,7,5, 2). Males have stone clubs, females fight as 
1 +1 hit die monsters, and the young as Vi die monsters. 

28. LONG CAVE: A trog gen of 36 young males is quartered 
^ here. Each has 10 hit points and is armed with a metcl 

battle axe and a metal-tipped javelin (+3 on "to hit" dice, 
2-8 hit points of damage). There is no treasure. 

29. GEN LEADERS: 4 large trogs (HP.: 17 each) who attack as 
3 hit dice monsters are lodged in the forepart of the area, 
while 2 huge ones (HP.: 22 each), the "elders", who 
attack as 4 hit dice monsters, are housed in the 
northernmost portion of the gallery. Each of these trogs 
has a metal bardiche. Each leader wears a small 
medallion of gold hammered into a likeness of a human 
skull (value 20 g.p.). The 2 elders have small rough gems 
(10 g.p. base value each) set into their devices. On the 
shelf at the back of their area is a human skull sheathed 
in gold (230 g.p.) with 2 2,000 g.p. garnets set in the eye 
holes. There are 4 sheaves of 12 javelins each here also. 

30. COMMUNAL CAVE: This place is normally empty of 
activity except during tribal feasts, councils, or when the 
males gather to attack. There are 8 immature females 
(HP.: 6 each) here at all times to tend the area. 

31. EASTERN CAVERN: This portion of the great cavern is filled with 
fungi patches which the troglodytes tend. The fungi supplies 
much of the food for the creatures which inhabit the place. 
There are narrow paths wending between these fields of 
mushrooms and other strange and gigantic growths. (The 
fungi are fed with the refuse and offal, and the place is less 
than fragrant.) A dim light from many of the phosphorescent 
lichen growths reveals the strange shapes and blotched 
,/colors of the fungi, and flame will show the colors as whites, 
J grays, yellows, tans, browns, reds, oranges, pinks, mauves, 
and violets. S positions indicate 1-4 shriekers, V positions are 
1-4 violet fungi. Under the underlined patch of violet fungi (V) 
is hidden a 10,000 g.p. gem and a jug of alchemy. 

32.-35. TROLLS' DENS: The trolls live in relative peace with the 
bugbears and trogs, as explained previously. They are 
a rewarded with food and wealth by the Drow, and the 
co-operation with the other inhabitants of the cavern has 
" ° caused them to prosper greatly. 

32. CHIEF'S DEN: The tribal chief (HP.: 49) and 5 lesser 
trolls (HP.: 40 each) dwell here. The chief does +2 hit 
points of damage whenever his attacks succeed, and his 
consorts cause 1 additional point of damage when they 
hit an opponent. At the back of the cave is a natural 
hollow which is used as the repository for the tribal wealth: 
1,300 c.p., 789 s.p., 2,011 g.p., 54 p.p., 38 gems of 10 g.p. 
base value, 14 pieces of jewelry (1,000 g.p. each), a 
potion of healing, and a bronze statuette-an idol of 
some weird shark god-which is inlaid with ivory, coral, 


10 



and pearls (value 9,500 g.p. intact, 5,500 for precious 
substances only). This latter object has a heretofore 
undetected secret compartment in its head portion, and 
therein rest a pair of lenses. These crystal devices do not 
give off any dweomer, for they are not magical, and the 
wearer will detect nothing when looking through them 
unless he or she is in the VAULT OF THE DROW (MODULE 
D3). 

33. 8 trolls (HP. 28 each). Note: The smell of the monsters is 
masked by the pungent reek of the fungi. 

V 34. 10 trolls (HP.: 31 each). 

35. 10 trolls (HP.: 26 each). 

6.-30. Additional troglodyte warren areas. (Cf. 28-30 & T above.) 

& T T. UNIT DEN: Each of these places exactly duplicates those 
noted before, i.e. 1 male, 1 female, and 2 hatchling trogs 
with no treasure. 

36. GUARDS' QUARTERS: 4 trogs of large size (HP.: 17 each) 
who attack as 3 hit dice monsters are here. Each is armed 

/with metal battle axe and metal-tipped javelin (+3 "to 
* hit", 2-8 hit points of damage). They relay information to 
areas 37. and 38. 

37. GUARDS' QUARTERS: 4 additional large trogs (H.P.: 16 
, each) are located here. They are also 3 hit dice monsters 

and armed as the guards at 36. 

38. TROG CHIEF'S LAIR: tKi$ huge (HP.: 39) old trog attacks as 
a 6 hit dice creature. He is armed with a bastard sword 
(+2, no special abilities) and 4 metal-tipped javelins (2 of 
which are normal +3 "to hit", 2-8 h.p. damage weapons, 
and 2 are javelins of lightning, but he isn't aware of the 
difference). Amidst the litter in the place are 27 100 g.p. 
base value gems, a sack with 12 ingots of 100 g.p. weight 
each-5 silver, 6 gold, 1 platinum-and 1 piece of 
platinum jewelry set with 12 gems (2x1,000 g.p., 4 x 500 
g.p., and 6 x 100 g.p.) which has a value of 7,500 g.p. 
Hidden in a small cranny are 4 potions of plant control. 

39. SIDE GALLERY: Stabled here (at A.) on chain tethers are 2 
wyverns (HP.: 49,41) which the trog chief has raised from the 
time they hatched from eggs taken by him. He rides the larger 
one into battle, while the other fights alone beside its sibling. 

' They will obey and follow the troglodyte chief, for they have a 
strange mutual liking and communicate with each other. In 
the southeastern spur (at B.) is a shelf of rock upon which rests 

V a huge flail which the chief uses when mounted. When he 
wields this weapon he has +2 chance to strike an opponent 
and causes +3 h.p. damage, but only he can so employ it to 
this effect. There is no treasure with these creatures. If they are 
slain the chief will go absolutely mad with rage! 

40. MAGIC POOL: This body of clear water has absolutely no 
effect upon creatures who drink from it. In fact, it is often used 
as a watering place by cavern inhabitants, although they 
also use the stream that feeds it and other small collection 
pools here and there throughout the cavern. Furthermore, the 
pool does not speak or otherwise communicate in any 
manner. It is quite broad, and some 8' deep (about 2' 
contour) at its center. At this spot rest 89 gems of 10 g.p. base 
value each. They are covered with a light layer of sand. If any 

/ of these gems are removed from the pool for more than 1 turn, 
,/ they will turn a like number of gems within a 30' radius into 
stones of 1 g.p. value (quartz crystals). On the other hand, if 
an individual tosses 1 -4 gems into the pool, he or she will find 
that a like number of gems in his or her possession are of 
better quality (flaws are cleared, so those gems are 
automatically one category higher). As the effect is more 
likely to cause 10 g.p. gems to become 50s, or 50 g.p. gems 
to become 100s, the Draw merchant who knows the secret of 
this pool usually tosses only 10 g.p. value gems into it. The 
pool radiates a dim dweomer, but the gems which are in it do 
not give off any magical aura. 


FINAL NOTE TO DUNGEON MASTERS 

If you are using this module as a part of the whole campaign, be 
certain to keep a careful note of all that the party does. You can 
do this by writing on the margin of this booklet. Any opponents 
which escape attack by the party will give warning to their masters 
or fellows if possible-particularly Drow and their more intelligent 
servants. However, the chaotic nature of the Dark Elves precludes 
the chance of organized search for the party, so at best the Drow 
will be aware of intruders and more watchful and suspicious. 

If the parly is moving on to the next module, cease play in this one 
as soon as they pass into one of the northern tunnels, and begin 
with the next package. 


REGARDING THE URGE-SCALE HEX MAP OF THE UNDERWORLD 

You will note that the players' version of the map shows only a 
relatively narrow section of the whole area-that part which 
pertains to this module and the other two in the set. As Dungeon 
Master, you might wish to develop other material regarding the 
encounter areas shown on your large-scale map. You can then 
allow your players to explore passages which are off their map, 
thus eventually completing their version; and, of course, having 
many adventures along the way. You can place other Drow 
enclaves, locate the realm of the mind flayers, expand the 
underground sea and place the Kuo-Toan stronghold, etc. 

SMALL SCALE ENCOUNTER PIECES AND PASSAGE MAPS 

The widest passage is a section of Primary Tunnel, the next widest 
is a Secondary Route section, the smallest is a Tertiary Passage, 
regular or secret. These and the three encounter pieces can be 
joined with other like map sections from the other modules in this 
set if desired. 


THIS ENDS THE FIRST PART OF 
THE DESCENT INTO THE DEPTHS 




11 







JERMLAINE 


FREQUENCY: Uncommon 
NO. APPEARING: 12-48 
ARMOR CLASS: 7 
MOVE: 15" 

HIT DICE: 1-4 hit points 
% IN LAIR: Special 

TREASURE TYPE: Per 10 individuals, O, Q; C, Q (x5), S, T in lair 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-2 or 1-4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 

MAGICAL RESISTANCE: See below 

INTELLIGENCE: Average (with Genius level cunning) 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral evil (with slight lawful tendency) 

SIZE: S(1'+ tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil 

Jermlaine, or jinxkins, sometimes known as bane-midges, dwell 
in elaborate tunnel and den warrens beneath the ground-often 
very deep beneath the surface. As they mix freely with rats of all 
sorts, even the giant variety, they are often (75%) found in 
company with such rodents and are 50% likely to be sharing an 
integrated system of burrows, tunnels, and holes. (If jermlaine are 
encountered, a percentile dice roll of 01-75 indicates that rats 
(25%) or giant rats (50%) are with them. If the jermlaine are in their 
lair, it is 50% probable that there will be connecting rat tunnels.) 
This cohabitation extends to all forms of mutual co-operation 
and defense. 

These evil runts are cowardly and will attack only when it seems 
probable that they can overwhelm victims without serious 
opposition. Jinxkins thus waylay weakened and wounded parties 
or single individuals who are unwary, asleep, etc. While strong 
groups or alert adventurers will not be physically attacked, 
jermlaine bands will certainly seek to cause them harm and 
otherwise injure them out of sheer maliciousness. This injury to the 
adventurers brings both material gain to the jermlaine and the 
possibility of the eventual gain of new victims. (Attack methods of 
these vicious mfdgets are explained later.) 

Jermlaine are very fast, moving with a scuttling gait, very quiet, 
and are masters of remaining unseen. On occasion, if a party or 
individual suddenly becomes still and listens carefully, their 
movement or twittering, squeaking speech can be detected. 

It is 60% probable that bane-midges will be within 60' of their lair at 
any time they are encountered, but the tunnels which give access 
to such places are twisting mazes, and passage is impossible for 
any creature larger than a gnome-even the latter having to 
creep and crawl to get through, and of course this exposes the 


intruder to attack. 

Jermlaine typically arm themselves with needle-sharp darts which 
they can hurl up to 12' and which cause 1-2 hit points of damage. 
In addition to a dart, each minimus carries a pike-like weapon-a 
1 W long wand of supple wood with a sharp metal tip. this 
instrument is used as a spear or pike to inflict 1-4 hit points of 
damage. Their favored attack method is ambush with pit or net, 
however, taking victims alive. In little-used passages, these nasty 
creatures will laboriously prepare pits covered by camouflaged 
trapdoors, or string overhead nets entwined with silk from ttie 
webs of giant spiders, and lay in wait for passing prey. In more 
travelled ways, jermlaine will stretch thin but strong cords (often 
woven of human hair) to trip the unwary. Victims not stunned by 
the trap are pummeled senseless by bane-midges wielding 
leathern clubs filled with sand or lead pellets, while others entwine 
the prone creatures with ropes and cords. Note that beating with 
the clubs has a 2% per blow cumulative chance to knock the 
victim unconscious, but those protected by splint, banded, or 
plate mail will not be so attacked. Well-armored victims who 
cannot be bound fast will be attacked to kill-possibly with 
flaming oil missiles or acid. Some victims will be devoured by the 
jermlaine (or their rat friends), but most humans will be stripped 
naked, shaved, and hauled out of the jinxkins' lair to lay trussed 
and helpless in the passageway. The jermlaine will usually watch 
such victims from a safe height, awaiting the "fun" of seeing some 
passing monster come and devour the bound victims. 

If alert creatures should happen to pause near a hidden group of 
jermlaine, the spiteful things will steal forth and cut belts and 
straps, packs and seams-typically one such vandalistic act per 
jinxkin, for they act with haste in order to escape unnoticed and 
unharmed. Their vandalism will usually be noticed only 1 -12 turns 
later, when a weakened strap parts, a seam opens fully, etc. 
Worse still, if packs and other goods are placed out where jinxkins 
can reach them, these monstrous atomies will pollute the water, 
sour the wine and turn it to vinegar, spoil food, desecrate holy 
water, steal small items (gems, coins, garlic buds, herbs, etc.), 
wedge daggers or swords so that they are difficultto draw quickly, 
cut bow strings, blunt arrows, puncture oil flasks, and so on. If 
more than 35 of these creatures are encountered, there will be 
one very old and exceptionally evil one who has a very wicked 
power; this individual bane-midge will be able to drain all 
magical properties from any magical item (except an artifact or 
relic) which he can handle for 1-4 rounds. 

The gray-brown warty hide of jermlaine blends with earth and 
stone, and they always dress in scraps and rags of the same 
coloration so they can remain concealed from view. Coupled 
with their ability to move quietly, the jinxkins are likely to surprise 
opponents on a 1-5 out of 6, and they are 75% undetectable if 
looked for or listened for unless the action is done suddenly so as 
to catch them off guard. 

Jermlaine speak their own tongue, their alignment language, 
and can converse with rats of all sorts. 1 in 10 can speak the 
common tongue, and the same probability exists with respect to 
the languages of dwarves, gnomes, goblins, and ores. 

Although they have weak eyes, and their infravision extends only 
30', jermlaine have keen hearing and smell, so even invisible 
creatures are 50% likely to be detected by them under normal 
dungeon conditions. 

Jermlaine speak their own tongue, their alignment language, 
and can converse with rats of all sorts. 1 in 10 can speak the 
common tongue, and the same probability exists with respect to 
the language of dwarves, gnomes, goblins, and ores. 

Description: Jinxkins look as if they were diminutive humans 
wearing baggy clothing and ill-fitted leather helmets. Closer 
inspection will show that the baggy "garments" are actually the 
creatures' lumpy and many-folded skins, while the "head gear" 
are in reality the pointed and evilly-visaged heads-all leathery 
and smooth. The limbs of these creatures are knotty and bowed, 
with hands and feet tipped with thick nails which are always filthy 
but nimble. 


12 













JftSta 


^BB 


1IIJH 


f w <i 


ii 


Vj ' 


1BB1 

!¦¦¦ 


mmmw 


1 BL IIJI 

lUtMMB' UBIi, 

mwwmnm. *mmm 
m mir <"¦ 

it yrB^ 


lr 


^"MIIill 


ir ii 






lb 

IMlIliJDB^lKSII 


w 

I! 


II 


^HIL 

XWMBBI 

^ HMW 

"r 

,___l 


lb bHi * 4m 

III 11 

i BNV 


iVil 


#¦¦¦" 




^mik war 
jrjKvmapi 
iiiiiiL arnai 

"IflEHOir 'MW 

¦tfWWIMF ^Tk 

ir" '" r*'H|r' w " 











r tf'M 


/A 




f 'I 


*/> 


\Pi 


< 11 ?* 


Ik<u 


V 

¦m^TViV 

i.r 


<&&?/*•* 


/**? 

v\*Vt"' *">v "* c <>'**, 

V4vIa s\%J 

" §m w& : 































This item is only one of the many popular aids for DUNGEONS & DRAGONS* produced by TSR Hobbies, 
Inc. 


Other D & D accessory items currently available include: 

Dungeon Geomorphs, Set One (Basic Dungeon) .£1.50 

Dungeon Geomorphs, Set Two (Caves & Caverns) .£1.50 

Dungeon Geomorphs, Set Three (Lower Dungeon) .£1.50 

Outdoor Geomorphs, Set One (Walled City) .£2.35 

Monster & Treasure Assortment, Set One (Levels One to Three) .£1.50 

Monster & Treasure Assortment, Set Two (Levels Four to Six) . £1.50 

Monster & Treasure Assortment, Set Three (Levels Seven to Nine).£1.50 

D & D Character Sheets Pad.£ 1.50 

Dungeon Module B1 (In Search of the Unknown).£2.50 

The entire selection of this series of Dungeon Modules for ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS* is 
comprised of the 
following items now printed under licence from TSR Hobbies by Games Workshop: 

Dungeon Module G 1 (Steading of the Hill Giant Chief) .£ 1.95 

Dungeon Module G2 (Glacial Rift of the Frost Giant Jarl) .£ 1.95 

Dungeon Module G3 (Hall of the Fire Giant King.£2.25 

Dungeon Module D 1 (Descent into the Depths of the Earth) .£2.25 

Dungeon Module D2 (Shrine of the Kuo-Toa) .£2.25 

Dungeon Module D3 (Vault of the Drow) .£2.75 

Dungeon Module SI (Tomb of Horrors) . £2.50 


Other releases of additional items relating to D & D are planned for the future. 






















