Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09163 Adventure N 3 Destiny Of Kings (revised) (lvl 1 4)"
See other formats
N3 


An Adventure for 4-6 Characters, Levels 14 


9163 



jLbwvtrr fv'CT > m i. a£X£< Nfcfrt-ritK* *C"* W4WUW nm -<T~ 


Advanced 

Dungeons^prasons 

Official Game Adventure 

Destiny of Kings 

Stephen Bourne 





Map 8: Capel Tower 


Ground Level Level II 



Dungeon (lower) Level 



Level III 




1 square = 10 feet 
Spiral Stairs 
Trap Door in Floor 
Portcullis 
Staircase 



Note: trap doors in ceilings of 18, 
19, and 20 lead to open parapets 
above. Staircase leads to parapets 
above 17. 












































































































































Advanced 

Dungeonsjjpragons 

OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE 


Adventure for 4-6 Characters, Levels 1-4 


Destiny of Kings 

by Stephen Bourne 



CREDITS 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Editor: David James Ritchie 
Cover Artist: Keith Parkinson 
Interior Artist: James Roslof 
Cartographer: David C. Sutherland III 
Typographer: Betty Elmore 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Ran 
dom House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Can 
ada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional 
distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR 
UK Ltd. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, 
PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR 
logo are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

(r) Copyright 1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

This product is protected under the copyright laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other unau 
thorized use of the material or artwork contained herin is 
prohibited without the express written permission of TSR 
Inc. 

Any questions on this material should be sent, along with a 
self-addressed, stamped return envelope, to "AD&D(r) 
Game Questions," at the address below: 

TSR, Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva Cambridge CB MAD 

WI 53147 United Kingdom 



Printed in the U.S.A. 

0-88038-274-0 

ISBN 394-55417-5TSR0800 


DM BACKGROUND 2 

The Situation 2 

A Death in Dunador 2 

A Pilgrimage to Andrevar 3 

Synopsis 3 

Names and Places 3 

BEGINNING THE ADVENTURE 4 

ADVENTURING IN ANDEVAR 5 

Road Encounters Table 5 

Off-Road Encounter Table 5 

ENCOUNTER AREAS 6 

Montinelle 6 

F ontenmere Abbey 13 

Open Road Patrol 16 

Lusian Forest (The Darkwood) 16 

The Drake & Castle Inn 17 

The Road to the Shrine of Nevron 18 

The Shrine of Nevron 19 

The Capel Tower 20 

Barbarian's Bridge 23 

Eli's Cottage 24 

Griffon Castle 25 

ENDING THE ADVENTURE 3 0 

Lord Edrin's Forces 30 

The Secret Path 31 

Noren'sWood 31 

Conclusion 1 (if Edmund is alive) 31 

Conclusion 2 (if Edmund is not alive) 31 

PRE-ROLLED PLAYER CHARACTERS 32 

MAPS 

The Province of Andevar (players' map) outside cover 

The Province of Andevar (Dungeon Master's map) inside cover 

Montinelle (ground level) 8 

Montinelle (citadel and dungeon) 11 

Fontenmere Abbey 14 

The Drake & Castle Inn 17 

The Shrine of Nevron 19 

Capel Tower inside cover 

Griffon Castle (ground level) inside cover 

Griffon Castle (upper level) inside cover 


9163 





Stop! If you plan to participate in this adven 
ture as a player, please stop reading here. 
Knowing the details of the adventure will 
make it less fun to play for all concerned. 

This adventure is designed for a party of four 
to six player characters (PCs) of the 1st to 4th 
levels of experience. A balance of character 
classes is needed since the PCs will face a 
wide variety of problems, each of which may 
be most easily and effectively solved by a 
character of a different class. 

You, the Dungeon Master (DM), should read 
this entire adventure before playing. There are 
several plot elements that do not become fully 
developed until lace in the adventure, but the 
groundwork must be laid for them much 
earlier. If you are not already aware of these 
before play begins, you won't be able to plant 
clues or build drama as effectively, and the 
adventure will be less fun to play. 

Study the maps while reading the area keys in 
this booklet. Most of these keys contain boxed 
information that should be read aloud to the 
players when their characters enter the area. 
Unboxed information is provided only as a 
guide for the DM; it is not read to the players. 
While every effort has been made to provide 
all information needed for play, you may want 
to add extra details to the boxed descriptions, 
purely to enhance the atmosphere. 


The following abbreviations are used 
throughout this adventure: 


AC 

HD 

#AT 

AT 

F 

MU 

MK 

sp 

cp 


= Armour Class 
= Hit Dice or 
Level 

= Number of 
Attacks 
= Alignment 
= Fighter 
= Magic User 
= Monk 
= silver pieces 
= copper pieces 


MV = 
hp = 

D = 

S 
T 
C 

gP 
ep 

PP 


Movement Rate 
current 
hit points 
Damage 

Size of Monster 
Thief 
Cleric 
gold pieces 
electrum pieces 
platinum pieces 


Non-player characters (NPCs) are introduced 
throughout the text where they are most likely 
to be encountered. When introduced, their 
statistics are shown in an abbreviated form 
with all combat and movement adjustments 
already figured in. 


The Situation 

The principal source of the evil besetting 
Dunador is Lord Edrin, brother to the deceased 
King Halfred and uncle to young Prince 
Edmund. All his life, Edrin has lived in the 
shadow of his older brother, nursing feelings of 
envy and spite toward the relation whose very 
existence barred him from access to the power 
he craved. A decade ago, with Halfred and most 
of his key advisors away at war, Edrin tried to 
seize the throne. The coup failed and the 
quaking younger sibling was forced to throw 
himself at Halfred's feet upon the sovereign's 
return. Despite his compassionate heart, the king 
was obliged to punish his scheming brother. 
Stripped of most of his titles and land, Edrin was 
sent south, there to reside in a modest castle as 
the minor lord of a small and poor principality. 
Motivated both by his vaulting ambition and by 
a new bitterness at his brother's treatment of 
him, Edrin almost immediately renewed his 
plotting and slowly rebuilt his power base. A 
cornerstone of his strategy was to forge a secret 
alliance with Aimar, Duke of Andevar, a small, 
but important province on the northern border of 
Dunador. 

Unwilling at first to throw his lot in with Edrin, 
Aimar's heart has changed in recent years due to 
Halfred's "injustice" toward him. Having twice 
lost parcels of land as a result of the king's 
rulings and having all too often seen his overly 
harsh judgments in civil matters overturned by 
the king's justice. Aimar has become 
increasingly estranged from his lord. The latest 
affront to Aimar's pride was an estate transfer 
just last spring favoring the king's old friend, 
William Menote, patriarch of Fontenmere. It was 
the loss of this rich tract of cropland that finally 
drove Aimar into Edrin's arms. Together, Lord 
Edrin and Duke Aimar have plotted for months, 
awaiting their chance. 


A Death in Dunador 

The plotter's chance finally came just a few days 
ago. While hunting in a rugged corner of the 
royal game preserve, Halfred was struck in the 
neck by an errant arrow and killed instantly. 
Some of those present wondered aloud whether, 
in fact, the shot was an accident, but there were 
witnesses in sufficient number to label it 
"misadventure." 

While the witnesses quibbled, the clerics abored. 
But all for naught. Attempts to raise the king 
from the dead mysteriously failed. Only Lord 
Edrin and his assassin knew that the deadly 
projectile that felled Halfred was an unusual 
arrow of slaying whose effects would defy all 
remedy. 


DM Background 


With the untimely death of King Halfred, the 
Dunador's political situation has rapidly 
deteriorated. The Royal Council, under the 
direction of Hollend, announced to the people 
that Prince Edmund will be king. Lord Edrin, 
however, has challenged the proclamation, 
putting forth his own claim to the throne. There 
are those at the court and elsewhere who support 
him. Only reverence for the old king and 
widespread esteem for Hollend have, for the 
moment, checked Edrin's plans. 

After lengthy and tough negotiations, it has been 
agreed that Edmund will be king, but that Edrin 
will become regent during the period until 
Edmund can be located and plans for his 
coronation at Fontenmere Abbey can be finalized. 
In exchange for holding the throne for the young 
prince, Edrin has forced Hollend and the royal 
Council to accept him as next in line for the 
crown. In this dark and foreboding atmosphere, 
the great and near great of Dunador breathlessly 
await Edmund's return to Dunthrane. 

All, that is, except Edrin. As regent, he has 
moved quickly. King Halfred's guards have been 
removed from Dunthrane. In their place Edrin has 
installed his own knights and has officially taken 
command of the military. Hollend and the Royal 
Council have no men-at-arms at their disposal at 
this rime. 

Naturally, Hollend fears for Prince Edmund's 
safety. Wandering about in the wilds of northern 
Andevar, the young prince is a perfect target for 
assassination. Officially. Aimar (Duke of 
Andevar) has stayed neutral on the issue of 
succession, but Hollend suspects the worst. If 
only loyal warriors could be placed at Edmund's 
disposal! But the old cadre of loyal palace guards 
has been scattered to the winds under the 
command of officers loyal to Edrin. Without 
trustworthy military retainers at his disposal, the 
old king's advisor has been forced to consider a 
desperate plan. 

Working in utmost secrecy, the aged Hollend has 
recruited a party of rugged adventurers to locate 
Edmund and bring him safely home. Bold and 
dangerous men have been brought in haste to 
southern Andevar, there to meet with Hollend to 
plan the most dangerous move in a dangerous 
game. Should this plot be revealed, none can 
expect to escape with their heads since the 
employment of a private mercenary force to 
locate and bring in Edmund can only be viewed 
as treasonous when the Royal Guard is already 
mounting its own official search. How easy it 
would be to lay at the feet of the plotters a 
purpose less wholesome than ensuring the safety 
of the young prince. How readily would Edrin 
leap at such a revelation in order to extend the 
duration of his regency on the pretext that the 
very foundations of the state were threatened by 
treason so close to the throne. 


2 






A Pilgrimage to Andevar 

A few weeks before King Halfred's death, 
Prince Edmund embarked on a long pilgrimage 
to the holy shrine of Nevron in the Veronian 
Mountains For generations the princes of 
Dunador have made this holy trek on foot. Such 
a show of piety, humility, and devotion has 
always been thought most seemly in a man who 
would be king. Further, according to the sages, 
drinking from the sacred waters of Nevron 
would enhance an heir's wisdom and strength. 

Thus, dressed in gray pilgrim's robes and 
accompanied by only a handful of lightly armed 
retainers, young Edmund set out on his 
pilgrimage at just that moment when his 
presence would be mostly sorely missed. By 
now he has been gone almost a month and his 
exact whereabouts are unknown. Fost in 
contemplation somewhere i 
n the high mountains, it is doubtful that the 
young prince even knows of his father's fate or 
his people's need. Armed only with a true heart, 
a youthful piety, and a beggar's bowl, the prince 
is, in Hollend's considered judgment, extremely 
vulnerable. 

Flollend has by no means underestimated his 
opponent's cunning or ruthlessness, either. Even 
as the king's advisor has moved to recruit his 
ream of mercenary rescuers, the Duke of 
Andevar's men have seized the prince in the 
Veronian Mountains. Lord Edrin has instructed 
Aimar to kill Edmund, but the duke is no fool. 
Fledging his bees, Aimar has taken Edmund to a 
secret stronghold just beyond the northern 
frontier of his realm. 

Flere, at Griffon Castle on the banks of the 
Laine River, young Edmund is held captive by 
order of the duke. As long as the power struggle 
continues, his fate is in the wind. If Edrin's bid 
to take the kingdom is completely successful, 
Aimar will surely kill Edmund. If Edrin fails, 
then the duke can release the prince and claim 
to be his savior. Nor has Aimar ruled out the 
possibility of simply selling the young prince to 
the highest bidder. For the moment, Aimar has 
reported to Edrin that he can't find Edmund. 

Meanwhile, the evil regent has taken matters 
into his own hands. Unwilling to rely too 
heavily on his newly recruited henchman, he 
has sent a group of his own men-at-arms to 
Andevar to look for the prince, and, at the same 
time, loot Fontenmere Abbey. Disguised as 
brigands, Edrin's men have sacked Fontenmere 
by this time and made off with the royal seal 
and scepter of Dunador. Without these precious 
symbols, no coronation can take place. Ruthless 
and diabolical. Lord Edrin has left little to 
chance. 

Ultimately, then, the group of adventurers must 
accomplish two things: secure the release of 
Prince Edmund and recover the artifacts 
required for the prince's coronation. 


Synopsis 

The following is a brief synopsis of these 
background events given in chronological 
order. 

The Heir Apparent, Prince Edmund, embarks 
on a pilgrimage to the Shrine of Nevron in the 
Veronian Mountains of Andevar. 

King Halfred of Dunador is slain in a hunting 
accident near the royal castle at Dunthrane. 

Hollend, head of the Royal Council, 
announces that Prince Edmund will be 
crowned king upon returning from his 
pilgrimage. 

Lord Edrin, brother to the late king and uncle 
to the prince, challenges Hollend's 
proclamation and puts forth his own claim to 
the throne. 

The king's retainers, led by Hollend. strike a 
bargain whereby Edrin becomes regent until 
Edmund is crowned at Fontenmere Abbey. 
Thereafter, Edrin will be next in line for the 
succession. In exchange for these concessions, 
Edrin agrees to recognize Edmund's claim to 
the throne. 

Working in utmost secrecy and entirely 
without the knowledge of the Royal Council, 
Aimar, Duke of Andevar, seizes Prince 
Edmund and imprisons him at Griffon Castle. 

Hollend seeks the aid of a party of 
adventurers to enter Andevar, find Prince 
Edmund, and return him safely to Dunthrane. 
Lord Edrin's men, in the guise of brigands, 
sack Fontenmere Abbey, stealing the royal 
seal and scepter of Dunador. 

The parry of mercenary adventurers retained 
by Hollend meets secretly with their employer 
at the Three Feathers Inn in the south of 
Andevar. 

The adventure begins. 

Names and Places 

Aimar, Duke of Andevar: Secular authority in 
the northern province of Dunador. His men 
have seized Prince Edmund and now hold him 
at Griffon Castle. 

Livery: A gold lion on a blue field. Aimar's 
elite citadel guards and close lieutenants wear a 
gold lion on a gray field instead. 

Andevar: Northern province of Dunador and 
general location of this adventure. 

Barbarian Bridge: Main crossing of the River 
Laine, located north of the Capel Tower. 

Capel Tower: Northern outpost of Andevar, 
currently occupied by Lord Edrin's men. 

Drake & Castle Inn: Roadside tavern at the 
foot of the Veronian Mountains. 

Dunthrane: The capital of Dunador and the 
site of the royal court. 

Dunador: The kingdom whose future is now 
at stake. 


Edmund, Prince of Dunador: Heir to the 
throne and son of the late King Halfred. His 
deliverance is the main object of the quest. 

Edrin, Regent of Dunador: Uncle to the 
prince and brother to the late king. He is the 
main villain in this piece. 

Livery: A black raven on a dark gray field. 
Fontenmere Abbey: Traditional coronation 
seat of the kings of Dunador. It is located in 
Andevar, to the west of Montinelle. 

Griffon Castle: Secret fortification of the 
Duke of Andevar where Prince Edmund is held 
captive. 

Halfred, King of Dunador: The departed 
sovereign whose untimely death precipitated 
the present crisis. 

Livery: A light blue cross of Dunador on a 
canary yellow field. 

Hollend: Chief advisor to the late king and 
head of the Royal Council. He is also Prince 
Edmund's main supporter. He has hired the 
party for this quest. 

Kirkroy, Knight of Andevar: A henchman of 
the Duke of Andevar who will await the party 
at Barbarian Bridge. 

Lusian Forest: A large wood in Andevar, 
rumored to be the site of some great evil. It is 
known to the local peasants as "the Darkwood." 
Montinelle: The principal fortress of Andevar 
and home to Duke Aimar. 

Shrine of Nevron: The holy shrine, located in 
the Veronian Mountains, which is the object of 
Prince Edmund's quest. Its magical waters are 
said to bestow wisdom and strength upon the 
true heir to the throne of Dunador. 

Three Feathers Inn: The tavern where the 
party first meets Hollend. 

Veronian Mountains: The high range marking 
the northwest frontier of Andevar. 

William Menote: Patriarch of Fontenmere 
Abbey and senior cleric of Dunador. Menote is 
an old friend of the late king and a supporter of 
Prince Edmund. 

A number of other, less important NPCs are 
mentioned in the text as they 
are encountered. 


3 








As a first step in preparing for the adventure, 
pick one of the PCs to receive Hollend's 
message. Preferably, this should be a fighter, 
ranger, or fighter multi-class of good alignment. 
Someone of neutral alignment is also 
acceptable. Look mainly for leadership qualities 
in this adventurer. He will be responsible for 
"recruiting" the rest of the party for a dangerous 
mission. 

In order to make the circumstances of the 
adventure more plausible, it will be necessary to 
establish some connection between Hollend and 
this individual that explains why Hollend would 
place such trust in him. If this adventure is 
being used as an isolated adventure, you can do 
this very easily simply by indicating that the 
chosen individual once served as a mercenary 
captain in Dunador and so is well known to 
Hollend. 

If, on the other hand, you are fitting this 
adventure into an ongoing campaign, a less 
direct connection may be appropriate. In this 
case, make it the character's father who served 
Dunador. and indicate chat there is some "debt 
of honor"that the father once promised to pay 
by either coming to Hollend's aid at need or 
sending his kin to pay his debt. In this latter 
scenario, Hollend trusts the character because 
his father vouches for him. The son takes on the 
mission at the father's request. 

When the leader has explained to the players 
how it is that he has been summoned co appear 
in Dunador, he informs them that on a certain 
day they must travel to the Three Feathers Inn, 
located in the Dunadorian province of Andevar. 
Aside from this infonnation and whatever hints 
the leader may drop as to the reward that can be 
expected for serving the head of Dunador's 
Royal Council, the players will know nothing of 
their mission until briefed by Hollend. They will 
enter Andevar from the southwest (see map 
reference for "Start Here.") 

Once the party is assembled and enters 
Andevar. read the following passage to them. 


It is with some apprehension that you enter 
the kingdom of Dunador. By now. rumors 
have traveled far and wide that things are 
not well in this troubled land. The king of 
Dunador has been killed, felled bv an arrow 
in what may have been a hunting accident, 
but might just as easily have been murder. 
Whatever the true late of King Halfred. it 
is now known far and wide that Dunador is 
a kingdom without a king. As you cross the 
frontier into this realm, it is clear that a 
great sadness is abroad. Everywhere the 
peasants have built mourning pyres and the 
air is thick with the heavy aroma of holy 
incense, certain signs of a sovereign's 
death. 


The Three Feathers Inn is a safe haven for 
anyone in Prince Edmund's service. Rolfe, the 
innkeeper, once served in King Halfred's army 
and remains entirely loyal to the cause of 
Edmund and Hollend. 

When the party arrives at the Three Feathers, 
Rolfe, who has been briefed by Hollend, 
recognizes its leader either from past 
acquaintance or from Hollend's description. If 
the party's leader is the son of one of Hollend's 
former comrades in arms, Rolfe (who also 
served with the father) identifies the son via 
some family resemblance. After identifying 
himself, the innkeeper leads the party to a back 
room where Hollend awaits them. 


At first, there is no sign of the king's chief 
advisor. Just an old itinerate tinker in the 
hooded, travel-stained cloak of his 
profession. But when the figure stands and 
throws back his hood, there is no mistaking 
him for any such thing. Tall, gaunt, and 
hatchet faced, Hollend wears authority like 
a suit of armor. Though quite aged now, the 
steel-gray beard still merges with a healthy 
head of curly hair and the sun-darkened skin 
exhibits a glow of health. Striding across the 
room, he grasps each ff your hands and 
welcomes you individually to Dunador. As 
he greets you, his icy blue eyes examine you 
as if appraising your worth. 


Inviting the party to break their fast, Hollend 
directs them to a table laid with a simple meal 
of ale, bread, and cheese. While they eat, he 
contents himself with asking them about their 
trip and deftly prying from hem details about 
their backgrounds. Once he is satisfied that the 
party meets his requirements for skill, 
boldness, and trustworthiness, Hollend speaks 
more seriously.. 


"Welcome, my friends, to this troubled 
land. Your arrival is timely indeed and 
thank you for your haste. By now, you 
have doubtless heard of the death of our 
king, Halfred of Dunthrane. For over 20 
years I served him as chief advisor on the 
Royal Council. Through war and peace and 
feast and famine, I stood by this noble king 
until his death not a fortnight ago. 

"The story, as I say, is well-known. He 
was hunting near the royal castle at Dun 
thrane when a deadly arrow pierced his 
neck. Those in his party called it an 
accident and. by my troth, I can't say 
otherwise. But I have my suspicions, as do 
others. How does a yellow-clad man on a 
white horse look anything like a deer! How 
does any normal hunting arrow resist all 
attempts at curing its effects! We wonder 


much for little gain. Halfred is dead and 
we are plunged into sorrow. 

"But there is one in this realm who shed 
no tears at the fall of Halfred. Lord Edrin, 
the king's brother, has coveted the crown 
of Dunador for years. A decade gone by he 
made to seize it when my liege was gone 
to war, but he was stopped then while 
Halfred yet lived. This time, there may be 
no such grace for Dunador. With the king 
gone and our first tears of grief not yet dry 
upon our cheeks, he strode into the Royal 
Court with his black-clad knights to claim 
the throne. Only the sorrow of the people 
and the meager opposition of the Royal 
Council has thus far prevented him from 
taking the realm for his own. Already he 
has made himself regent of Dunador. 

"And thus we come co the purpose of our 
being here. There is one man -little more 
than a boy, really- who can save us. 
Prince Edmund, Halfred's son and heir, 
should rightly wear the crown. And so he 
shall if he can but be spared the fate which 
I suspect his uncle of plotting for him. 

"For, you see, Edmund is lost now to the 
eyes of man. Just before his father's death, 
he set off on a pilgrimage to the Shrine of 
Nevron in the Veronian Mountains of our 
northern province of Andevar. For gener 
ations, the heirs apparent of Dunador have 
made this pilgrimage to the waters of 
Nevron. The sages say that drinking from 
the sacred waters give a prince the wisdom 
and strength to rule this realm when the 
rime comes. I know not of this, but such 
devotion does much to win the hearts of 
the people. 

"We pray that Prince Edmund will return 
soon from this pilgrimage, but we have 
reason to believe that he is not safe in 
Andevar. Aimar, the duke of this province, 
is a self-seeking man who might turn a 
blind eye to the prince's welfare if it served 
his purpose. Worse still, this Aimar may be 
in alliance with Lord Edrin. This is my 
worst fear, for if that be so, then my prince 
is in mortal danger in Andevar. Edrin has 
sworn to protect the Prince but to believe 
his word is to be less than a fool. Assassins 
may already be abroad in Andevar, with or 
without Duke Aimar's blessing. 

"Currently we do not know where 
Edmund is. Such is the nature of his pil 
grimage. On foot with only a few men in 
pilgrim's garb. Edmund travels inconspic 
uously. By now he may have reached the 
Shrine of Nevron. We don't even if the 
prince has heard of his father's death. In 
an); event, he must be found and brought 
safely back to Dunthrane Castle. If Prince 
Edmund dies, the realm will be crushed 


4 












Adventuring in Andevar 


beneath the heel of this dark Lord Edrin. 

"On behalf of the Royal Council, and in 
the utmost secrecy, I am asking you to 
enter Andevar and find Prince Edmund 
before it is too late. Anything you can leam 
of the Duke of Andevar's motives will also 
be of value to us, and we will pay well for 
such knowledge. But, it is the safety of the 
prince that is of greatest concern. 

"I suggest you begin your search at 
Montinelle, the capital of Andevar and the 
home of Duke Aimar. Keep your eyes 
open and discover what you can of Aimar's 
disposition and the whereabouts of Prince 
Edmund. If this should prove profitless, the 
road through Montinelle will carry you 
directly to Nevron. where you ma); find the 
hunting better. 

"But, whatever you do, remember this. At 
no time should you reveal the nature of 
your quest. If you are taken and your 
mission discovered, you will certainly die 
most horribly, and the Royal Council's 
position will 

become extremely difficult. You will be 
wise to pass yourselves off as soldiers of 
fortune or, perhaps, as emissaries of a 
foreign country. Conceal your identities as 
you will. 

"Also, mark well one other thing. In this 
whole region of Andevar, you can only 
trust two men: the patriarch of Fontenmere 
Abbey, William Menote, and Rolfe, the 
innkeeper here at the Three Feathers. If 
pressed, you may seek refuge there or here. 

"If you succeed in this quest to find and 
save the prince, you will have the undying 
gratitude of this kingdom and the certain 
knowledge that you have saved it. More co 
the point, you will also be rewarded 
handsomely for your efforts. I beg you to 
accept this mission and I pray that you 
succeed in it." 


After this speech, Hollend gives the parry 200 
gp with which can buy provisions for the trip. 
He is also prepared to offer them fresh horses 
should they request them. Finally, he gives the 
parry's leader small portraits of Prince 
Edmund and William Menote, patriarch of 
Fontenmere, and a rough map of Andevar 
showing some (but not all) of the province's 
key features. This map (Map 1) does not show 
Eli's cottage, Griffon Castle, or the secret path 
through Noren's Wood. 



In view of the long distances to be covered it is 
assumed that the PCs will use horses to journey 
through Andevar. Most of the time the horses 
will be walking with a movement base of 12 
"(12 heres per day in clear areas; 5 heres per 
day in the Lusian Forest, Noren's Wood, the 
Veronian Mountains, and the Moorland). 
Galloping will at least double this movement 
base to 24" for short periods. Galloping over 
long distances, however, exhausts a mount 
and you should keep track of such conditions. 
After a 20-mile gallop a horse will be almost 
ready to drop dead! 

In the event that the party finds itself afoot, it 
will travel at the rate of four hexes per day in 
most of Andevar. Travel afoot through the 
Lusian Forest, Noren's Wood, or the Veronian 
Mountains is at the rate of two hexes per day. 

Road Encounters Table 

Roll ld6 

1 20 Brigands (AC 6, MV 24"; hp 5 each; 
FI; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL E) with one leader 
(AC 6; MV 24 "; hp 20; F3; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
AL E). Each brigand is mounted on a light 
horse (AC 7; HD 2; hp 12 each; MV 24"; 
#AT O; S L; AL N). Each brigand carries 
1-20 sp, 1-10 gp, and a sword. The leader 
carries 50 gp and a sword. 

2 15 Bandits (AC:; MV 24"; hp 5 each; D 1- 
6, AL E). Each bandit is mounted on a 
light horse (AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 12 
each; #AT O; S L; AL N). Each bandit is 
armed with a lance and short sword, and 
each carries 1-20 sp and 1-10 gp. 

3 10 Berserkers (AC 7; MV 12"; hp 6 each; 
FI; #AT 2; D 1-8; AL N). Each berserker 
carries 1-20 sp, a sword, and an axe. 

4 A merchant caravan that has been sacked 
by its guards. Only six survivors can be 
found: four men and two women. They 
have no possessions other than the clothes 
on their backs but, if escorted to 
Montinelle, they generously reward 
anyone who assisted them. 

5 10 Goblins (AC 6; MV 6"; hp 6 each; HD 
1; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL E). Each goblin 
carries a club and 1-20 sp. 

6 3 Jackalweres(AC 4; MV 12"; hp 20 each; 
HD 4; #AT 1; D 2-8; AL E). The members 
of this hunting pack at first appear 
disguised as pilgrims and claim to be 
either on their way to the Shrine of Nevron 
(if the party is headed in that direction) or 
on their way home from the shrine (if the 
party is headed away from Nevron). The 
jackalweres cry to join the party "for 
protection." If permitted to do so, they 
work into position for a surprise attack at 
close quarters. If denied this opportunity, 
they attack immediately. 


The Road Encounters Table indicates the 
wandering monsters that are found on the 
open roads of Andevar. For every 40 miles of 
open road traveled, check once for an 
encounter which occurs on a roll of 1 on ld6. 
Use the Road Encounters Table when the party 
is traveling along any roads except the path 
through Lusian Forest or the track leading to 
the Shrine of Nevron. 

If the party insists on plunging into the 
surrounding wilderness, then refer to the Off- 
Road Encounter Table to determine what 
encounters they have. The Off-Road 
Encounters Table is used only for cross 
country travel in areas other than the Lusian 
Forest. Cross-country movement is impossible 
in the rugged Veronian Mountains. For every 
20 miles of wilderness traveled, check once 
for an encounter which will occur on a roll of 
1 or 2 on ld6. 

Off-Road Encounters Table 
Roll ld6 

1 25 Brigands (AC 6, MV 24"; hp 6 each; 
FI, #AT 1; D 1-8; AL E) with one leader 
(AC 6; MV 24"; hp 22; F3; #hT 1; D 1-8; 
AL E). Each brigand is mounted on a 
light horse (AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 12 
each; #AT 0; S L; AL N). Each bandit is 
armed with a sword and carries 3-30 gp. 
The leader carries 60 gp. 

2 20 Gnolls (AC 5; MV')"; hp 10 each; HD 
2; #AT 1; D 2-8; AL E) with one leader 
(AC 5; MV 9"; hp 16; HD 3; #AT 1; D 2- 
8; AL E). Each gnoll is armed with a 
sword and carries 2-12 ep. In addition, 
five of the gnolls carry great bows and the 
rest carry polearms. The leader is armed 
with a sword and carries 8 gp. The gnolls 
are accompanied by six hyenas (AC 7; 
MV 12"; hp 10 each; HD 3: #AT 1; D 2- 
8; AL N). 

3 15 Wild Dogs (AC:: MV 15": hp:. HD 1 
+1; #AT 1; D 1-4; ALN). 

4 20 Hobgoblins (AC 5; MV 9"; hp 7 each; 
HD 1 + 1; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL E) of the 
Ripper tribe. Each hobgoblin carries a 
sword and 2-8 gp. 

5 2 Perytons (AC 7; MV 24 "; hp 22. 20; 
HD 4; #AT 1 ( + 2 to hit), D 4-16, AL E). 
These winged carnivores are extremely 
hungry, having hunted for some time 
without success. They can be harmed 
only by magical weapons. 

6 9 Wolves (AC 7; HD 2+2; hp 14 each; 
#AT 1; D 2-5; S S; ALN). 


5 









Montinelle is the stronghold of the Duke of 
Andevar. It consists of an octagonal area 
approximately 270 feet from side to side 
enclosed by a 40-foot-high stone curtain wall. 
The wall is broken at each comer by a guard 
tower. Each of the eight towers (T1-T8) about 
the castle has a ground-level chamber with a 
spiral staircase leading 60 feet up to a trap door 
and the open parapets above. Each of the lower 
chambers is a combination armory and 
guardhouse containing locked weapons racks 
holding spears, lances, maces, crossbows, and 
bolts), oil barrels, two small beds, and a stove 
and pantry area for catering. At any time, one 
guard will be off duty in the lower guardhouse 
and one will be above on the parapets. All the 
guards are human. 

The Tower Guard Roster lists all tower guards. 
Each wears a blue tunic with the gold lion 
insignia of the Duke of Andevar. 

The two gatehouses flanking the southern 
entrance each contain a lower chamber used as a 
guardroom. There are no armories in these 
guardrooms. Spiral stairs lead from the lower 
chambers to the parapets above. Each 
guardroom contains a pair of small beds, a 
fireplace equipped with iron pothooks, and a 
cabinet housing heavy crockery, pots, and 
cooking utensils. The western gatehouse also 
contains a rude table and chair and a rough shelf 
full of dusty ledgers along the north wall. It 
serves as an office to the sergeant-at-arms who 
keeps a sketchy record of the comings and 
goings through the southern gate. If questioned, 
the guards atop the eight wall towers direct all 
travelers to the office of the sergeant-at-arms. 

Leaving Montinelle 

Upon approaching the southern gate, the party is 
stopped by two castle guards armed with swords 
(AC 6; MV 12 F3, hp 22; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL 

N). Over their chainmail they wear blue tunics 
with the gold lion of the Duke of Aimar on the 
breast. The guards immediately call the sergeant- 
at-arms (AC 6; MV 12"; F4; hp 34, #AT 1; D 1- 
8; AL N) who also wears the Andevar livery over 
his chainmail. He subjects the characters to 
routine questioning as to their business inside 
Montinelle. If satisfied that they have a 
legitimate errand inside the castle and aren't 
going to cause trouble, he orders the group to 
enter his office and sign the register book on the 
table that serves as his desk. If the characters 
offer a bribe of 2 gp or more, the sergeant-at- 
arms lets them look at the register. It shows that 
"Edmund of Dunthrane" entered Montinelle 10 
days previous, leaving the castle on the following 
morning. Immediately below the entry showing 
Edmund's departure is the name "Kirkroy," a 
reference to an individual who apparently left 
Montinelle shortly after the prince. In truth, 


Kirkroy is the agent who followed the prince 
and abducted him.. 

The interior of Montinelle is divided into seven 
areas: 

A. The Market 

B. Peasant Huts 

C. The Jousting Field 

D. The Reviewing Stand 

E. Stables 

F. Barracks 

G. The Citadel 

Entry to areas C through G is restricted. Any 
attempt to force an entry during daylight 
arouses the castle guards patrolling the market, 
guarding the stable and main gate, and relaxing 
in the barracks. As soon as a disturbance is 
noted, the gate is closed. Sustained 
disturbances attract a company of 20 guards 
from the citadel. In addition, in the event of a 
general melee, 4-16 guards from the wall 
towers also appear. 

Arrest and Imprisonment 

Obviously, investigations conducted inside 
Montinelle must be performed with a certain 
discretion. Open melee or unsophisticated 
questioning that draws attention to the party will 
lead to the characters' arrest. Points of special 
danger occur when the party is in the market 
trying to locate a source of information; if and 
when the party attempts to bribe the sergeant-at- 
arms in order to get a look at his records; if and 
when the party tries to gin entrance to the 
citadel. In any of these three instances, 
suspicions will be aroused unless a plausible 
cover story is presented that adequately explains 
why information is being sought. 

Should the suspicions of individuals who are 
not guardsmen be aroused, they report the 
matter to the guard. Should isolated guardsmen 
become suspicious, they let the group go about 
its business until they can quietly summon 
overwhelming force to the vicinity. Once a 
superior force of guardsmen arrives or a melee 
breaks out, the guard tries to arrest the 
characters. Beggars, merchants, servants, and 
peasants do not become involved in the affair, 
but there are 47 fighters in the castle who do: 


Sir Bracken, 16 tower guards. 20 castle guards, 
the sergeant-at-arms, and 10 citadel guards. 

The characteristics of the tower guards have 
already been described. Except where other 
wise noted, castle guards are (AC6. MV 12"; 
F3; hp 24; #AT 1; D 1-8, AL N). All citadel 
guards are (AC 3; MV 9"; F6; hp 40; #AT 1 or 
2; D 1-8 with sword, 1-6 with bow; AL LE). 
Each guard (of any type) carries 2-20 gp. Cita 
del guards wear over their plate armor gray 
tunics with gold lions to indicate their special 
status. The rest of the guards are, unless other 
wise noted, equipped only with chaimnail and 
wear the blue and gold livery of Andevar. 

Sir Bracken is (AC 2; MV 3"; FG, hp 44; #AT 
1; D 2-8; AL LE). In addition to his sword +1, 
he carries a special net of entrapment with one 
remaining charge. In melee, he uses this 
device to incapacitate anyone within a 10-foot 
radius of the target area. The net, when cast, 
acts so quickly that escape from its grasp is 
highly unlikely. Each player is entitled to a 
saving throw on ld20. but an unmodified roll 
of 20 is needed to evade the net. Those who 
fail to save are disarmed and totally incapaci 
tated, unable even to cast a spell. Sir Bracken 
will use the net when it will have the maxi 
mum effect, inside or outside the citadel. 

Throughout any melee, it is the intent of Sir 
Bracken and his men to capture the party by 
any means. While willing to injure and 
incapacitate, they are reluctant to kill and 
repeatedly call on the party to surrender. 

If arrested or subdued, the members of the 
party are disarmed, stripped of their armor and 
tunics and taken to cell D4 of the dungeon. All 
of their gear is stashed in or next to the large 
chest in the jailor's office (Dl). Sir Bracken 
accuses the characters of being spies and 
threatens them with individual interrogation at 
a later time, but they will never actually be 
harmed. If the characters ask to see the duke, 
they are informed that Aimar is not currently 
in residence at the castle. Should Sir Bracken 
use the net of entrapment to aid in the capture 
of the group, he comments to the members of 
the parry on how upset he is at having had to 
use up the last of the net's power and how he 
intends to make them regret causing him to do 
so. 


Tower Guard Roster 


Location 

Class/Level 

AL 

Weapons 

T1 

F2 

LN 

sword, bow 


F3 

LN 

sword, bow 

T2 

F4 

LN 

sword, crossbow 

F3 

LN 

sword, bow 

T3 

F4 

LN 

sword, bow 

F3 

LN 

sword, crossbow 

T4 

F5 

LN 

sword, bow 

F3 

LN 

sword, spear 


Combat Bonus 

Armor 

AC 

hp 

+1 with bow 

chain 

7 

14 


chain 

6 

21 


plate 

4 

26 

+1 with bow 

chain 

6 

22 


splint 

7 

34 

+1 with X-bow 

chain 

7 

27 

+1 with bow 

banded 

6 

37 


chain 

6 

26 


6 









Montinelle 


A. The Market 

The entire southern portion of the castle 
grounds is an open market area studded with 
gaily colored tents, canopied merchant stalls 
and small enclosures housing numerous 
varieties of common livestock. The vendors at 
this market fair have available for purchase at 
normal prices all of the items listed on page 36 
of the Player's Handbook other than weapons 
and armor. Fine clothes, silks, linens, and 
sundry art objects may also be found, but at 
slightly inflated prices (normal price plus 10 
to 20 percent). 

The market areas is thronged with peasants, 
merchants, and the ever-present beggars. 
Ominously, there seem to be members of the 
castle guard everywhere, filing between the 
stalls in ones and twos, their eyes open for 
trouble. You should point out to the players at 
some time during their passage through this 
area that at least one pair of guards is eyeing 
them with suspicion. 

If the players attempt to obtain information at 
the market fair, they draw a blank from the 
ignorant peasants. Even market regulars know 
little. However, any merchant or beggar 
approached by the party will eventually, in 
exchange for a few gold pieces, direct them to 
a certain Lemus, a peasant living in the 
cottage marked with an in area B2 of the 
Montinelle map. Beyond this, no one in 
Montinelle seems to know anything except his 
own business. 

B. The Peasant Huts 

The peasants who work the land surrounding 
the castle are housed in this cluster of squalid, 
mud-daubed, wattle-and-thatch huts. Apart 
from Lemus and the odd porcine house pet, 
there is virtually nothing of interest in this 
area. If the players insist on making a detailed 
examination, treat them to a tour of almost 
identical, dirt-floored dwellings containing 
only straw pallettes, crude cooking facilities, 
wall pegs for clothing, a roughly carpentered 
table and chairs, and perhaps a plank fixed to 
one wall as a pantry. Between the hours of 6 
a.m. and 6 p.m. only the very old and the very 
young will be found in this area. All able- 
bodied men and women are at work in the 
fields or the market. 

The cottage marked is, as noted, the home 
of Lemus, an ancient, crippled beggar who 
was once a warrior in the king's service. 
Despite the wretchedness of his current 
condition, Lemus remains a loyal king's man. 
Moreover, Lemus has recently spoken with 
one of the prince's companions and has reason 
to be suspicious of strangers inquiring 
concerning Edmund. 

Unless he is satisfied that the members of the 
party are friendly to the king. Lemus provides 
them with no information. At first, he 


questions them closely. Once he is certain that 
they are no threat to the king's interests, he 
becomes willing to answer questions 
concerning Edmund, providing that first his 
tongue is loosened by a few pieces of silver or 
a skin of wine. He then provides the following 
entertainment in a voice cracked with age: 

"Twas more'n week gone by now. I seen the 
young prince an' his companions. Ha! 
Dressed as pilgrims, they was. But pilgrims 
don't wear shiny gold on they fingers nor 
has bright neck braces winkin' under they 
gray pilgrims' cloaks. Knew 'em right off. I 
did. Knew 'em an' spoke to one. Nay the 
prince, but another. We spoke a bit, spoke o' 
the old days, o' Dunador an' the king. 
Oh,'twas grand, all right. Grand. He give me 
gold afore he left. A proper gentleman, he 
was. 

"I pray they did well. But that be somethin' 

I ain't too sure 'bout. They was nervous like, 
an' I heard one atellin' young Edmund as 
'ow they was still bein' followed an' 'ad 
better get on to Nevron an' see to they 
business. That seemed t' set em to movin', 
an' they slipped out the next day, quiet like. 
Headin' for Nevron an 1 them cursed 
mountains, I 'spect." 


Though this is all that Lemus knows of the 
prince's party, he does have one more bit of 
news which he provides if plied with more 
money or wine: 


"Well, aye. there be one more thing tha may 
be o' interest, seein' as 'ow you be eager t' 
learn.'Twas day afore yesterday, I guess. A 
monk come in wearin' the habit o' 
Fontenmere. Straight to the tower there e 
rode, an' ain't no one seen 'im since. No, nor 
heard what happened to bring 'im 'ere. 
Which is real strange, ya see, cause it ain't 
that often that folks ride in on horses all 
lathered an' with a arrow stickin' outa they 
monkish backs. Yep, well. If I was a curious 
man, which I ain't, I'd sure be wonderin' 
what 'appened t' that monk and why ain't 
nobody can get nothin' about 'im outta them 
guards up t' the citadel. Yeah. I sure would 
wonder." 


Having imparted these two valuable bits of 
information, Lemus declines to provide further 
useful knowledge, answering all additional 
queries by returning to how he "jes' couldn't 
'elp wond'rin' 'bout that monk." 

C. The Jousting Field 

The 40-foot by 130-foot open area near the 
west wall is Duke Aimar's jousting field. It is 
divided into lists by three low, open fences 


running its length. In the absence of the duke, 
there is no activity in this area. 

D. The Reviewing Stand 

The reviewing stand is a 5-foot-high open 
platform of raw, weathered lumber topped by 
an open wooden framework used to support a 
canopy during tournaments. Since no tourna 
ments are planned in the near future, the 
canopy over the reviewing stand, the skirts that 
normally hide its supports, and the chairs that 
normally occupy the platform have all been 
stowed under the stand. 

E. The Stable 

The long, low stone stable houses 30 light 
horses, together with all manner of riding gear. 
At the back of each stall is a generously filled 
oat bin. A castle guard stands at each entrance, 
and a stable boy is busy tending to the 
livestock. 

F. The Barracks 

The solid structure at F is a sturdy stone 
barracks built directly into the curtain wall 
surrounding Montinelle. At any given time 
there will be 3-10 guards wiling away their 
off-duty hours inside the structure. Without 
their armor, the guards are (AC 10; MV 9"; 
F3; hp 20: #AT 1; D 1-8; AL LN). If roused, it 
rakes them two rounds to get their swords; 
they never waste time doming their armor. 

The interior of the barracks is a single low 
room. Ten rickety cots line each of the long 
walls. Suspended from the foot of each cot is 
an equipment pack. There is a small fireplace 
equipped for cooking in the center of the south 
wall. It is flanked by wooden plank shelves 
groaning under the weight of various cooking 
implements and provender bins. Bags of spices 
hag from the nearby rafters. Opposite this 
fireplace is a long trestle table and a pair of 
benches. Beneath this table, obscured by a 
shaggy rug fashioned from the skin of some 
obscure animal, is a trap door leading to a 
secret underground passage that connects these 
barracks with the dungeon below the citadel. 

In addition to the miscellaneous equipment in 
the equipment packs hanging from the foot of 
each bed, a complete ransacking of the 
barracks will turn up 5-100 gp and 100 600 sp 
in coins. 

G. The Citadel 

Dominating Montinelle is Duke Aimar's 
citadel. Its single, unhidden entrance in the 
south wall is guarded by a pair of tough 
looking citadel guards in the gray and gold of 
the Duke of Andevar. Any attempt to enter 
this way, whether by negotiation or force, 
results in Sir Bracken's arrival. Any further 
attempt at entry, whether by force or as a 


7 









Map 3: Montinelle (ground level) 



1 square = 10 feet Note: walls are 40 feet high, towers are 60 feet high. 



MB CO - 

Secret Door 

0 





S 

Trap Door (in floor) 


111111"" 


Spiral Stairs 

Stairs 








































































































































































































































































































result of an invitation, results in Sir Bracken 
casting his net of entrapment over the group in 
an attempt to arrest them. If a confrontation 
occurs outside the entrance, Sir Bracken casts 
the net from the shadows just inside the 
gateway. Otherwise, he waits until the group is 
already inside the citadel to spring his little 
surprise on them. 

Citadel Main Level 

A cruciform hallway divides the main level of 
the citadel into four chambers. When opened, 
the trap door in the west arm of the hall of this 
level reveals a flight of spiral stairs leading 
down to the jailor's office (Dl) below. The 
staircase in the north arm of the hall leads 
directly to an open landing on the upper level. 

1. Sir Bracken's Room 


The entire northwest corner of this chamber 
is dominated by a mahogany four-poster 
with drawn gray velvet curtains. A large one 
drawer ironwood desk is located beside it. 
Against the south wall is a bulky cabinet, 
flanked by a pair of heavy, iron-bound oaken 
chests. Every square inch of the available 
wall space seems to be occupied by 
weaponry or shields. Some are in pristine 
condition. Others, obviously battle trophies, 
are twisted and dented to the point of 
uselessness. A few of the less serviceable 
items are graced with crusty brown stains. 


The locked drawer of the desk contains a ring 
of keys and a diary. The keys unlock all of the 
citadel's doors except for those giving access to 
the wine cellar and to the duke's rooms. The 
diary is Sir Bracken's personal chronicle of the 
mundane events characterizing garrison life for 
many months in the past. The last entry, several 
days old, consists only of the name "Kirkroy" 
on a page by itself. 

Both of the chests against the south wall are 
securely locked. That to the left of the cabinet 
contains 100 gp worth of silks and fine linens. 
Beneath these is a small locked chest containing 
300 gp and 400 sp. The chest to the right of the 
cabinet contains an unpainted shield, a jewel- 
inlaid short sword worth 200 gp. a broadsword 
and two long swords, all extremely well-made. 
The tall cabinet contains two dozen skins and a 
score of fine tunics befitting a knight of high 
station. At the rear of the cabinet hangs a suit of 
chain mail of a type commonly used in jousting. 
A large footlocker built into the cabinet holds a 
small saddle inlaid in silver (600 sp). 

Located in the bedpost nearest the desk is a 
secret compartment about four feet from the 
floor. By sliding back a cunningly hidden panel 
in the post, the characters gain access to this 


recess where they find a 10-inch hollow tube of 
mithril. This is a chime of opening with 10 
charges. If pointed at a lock of any kind, includ 
ing a held portal or wizard-locked door, striking 
the chime opens the lock or portal. However, 
each use of the chime causes it to emit a loud, 
resonating tone which attracts anyone or any 
thing in the vicinity. Each striking of the chime 
uses one charge and unlocks one lock. Thus, a 
door, lid, or portal locked by more than one 
means would require more than one striking of 
the chime in order to open it. For example, it 
would take four charges to open a locked, 
chained, wizard-locked, and padlocked chest. 
Striking the chime within 10 feet of a concealed 
door automatically opens that door regardless of 
whether the user knows that the door is present. 

2. Barracks of the Citadel Guard 


The north and south walls of this chamber 
are each lined with five sturdy oak beds 
strewn with warm furs. To the left of each 
bed is a tall oak wall cabinet. 


All of the cabinets are locked. Inside, each is 
divided horizontally into a pair of compart 
ments. The left compartment contains one or 
more shirts of varying quality, a pair of gray 
guardsman's tunics, several pairs of matching 
hose, a guardsman's dress bonnet and a pair of 
parade shoes. A shelf at the top of this com 
partment contains small items of personal 
gear: toiletries, razors, dice, and the like. 
Racked against the walls of the right compart 
ment of each cabinet is an assortment of nor 
mal weapons, including a bow with a quiver of 
arrows, two or three spears, and two cased 
shields in the colors of Andevar. Also hanging 
loose in this compartment is a collection of 
leatherwork. Some is dyed a bright yellow and 
is clearly part of the guardsman's dress har 
ness. The rest consists of plain brown or black 
belts, bracers, caps, and other (mostly non 
regulation) items. The cabinet directly to the 
south of the door contains a spear +1 and a 
small sack stuffed with 300 sp. 

3. Kitchen and Pantry 


What could this be but a kitchen! Almost the 
whole of the north wall is taken up by a 
combination iron stove and oven. The rest of 
the walls are occupied from floor to ceiling 
with a massive shelving arrangement, 
containing an orderly array of post, pans, 
bowls, crocks, bags, boxes, and tins. 
Bunches of hard sausages and cheeses, 
drying herbs, and vegetables adorn every 
rafter. The floor space is occupied by a 
jumble of tables and carts holding butcher 
blocks and breadboards. An aged, bald, 


stoop-shouldered little serving man In a 
greasy white smock stands at one of these, 
mindlessly fussing with a batch of bread 
dough. 

The fellow occupied with making the day's 
bread is one Matlocke (AC 10; MV 6"; T3. hp 
12; #AT 0; AL NE). This greasy little man, the 
Duke's cook, is noted among his peers for both 
his cowardliness and his aversion to the 
truth. Formerly a member of the guard, 
Matlocke is now far too old to fight, a 
profession for which he never had much taste 
anyway. Long since retired to the kitchen 
service, he has prospered in a mean way by 
tyrannizing lesser servants and picking the 
pockets of the guards whenever he thinks he 
can get away with it. 

Suspended from a leather thong around 
Matlocke's neck is a small dagger and a pouch 
containing 10 sp. Otherwise, he has no posses 
sions of note. 

If left unattended by the members of the party. 
Matlocke summons the citadel guard at the 
earliest opportunity If an unwary party member 
approaches too closely, he has a 30% chance of 
losing something from his pecker to Matlocke's 
nimble fingers. If the characters bribe or 
threaten him, Matlocke will, in answer to the 
proper questions, reveal the entire sum of his 
knowledge, including the following: 

"Och. aye! The prince an' them others left 
Montinelle jus' this past ten-day. I guess we 
weren't supposed to know who they was, 
but it was plain as the nose on yer face, if 
ya 1 take my meaning." 

"Nay, 'is lordship, the duke, ain't in the 
castle. What's more,'e 'asn't been home fer a 
week. Gone north, they say." 

"Kirkroy! Aye, sure. Everybody knows 
Kirkroy. Why.'e's the duke's strong right 
arm! Chief hiresword an' champion-at- 
arms. that's Kirkroy. But 'e ain't in the castle 
now. Naw. 'e left right after the prince did." 

"Och, well now. Let's see. 'Twas maybe a 
week ago that we got news o' the king's 
death. That was then the duke rode out 
leavin' orders fer a patrol to go after the 
prince and tell 'im about 'is father's death. 
Caught up with 'im by now. I 'spect." 


4. Storage Chamber 

The door to this chamber is locked. 


Clearly a larder of some sort, this chamber is 
panelled in some dark, rough insulating 
wood. The west wall is lined with deep 
shelves on which are stacked dozens of large, 
bulging gunny sacks. Along the east wall are 
half a dozen casks. There are four great north 
upright barrels against the north wall. 


9 













The barrels hold drinking water; the sacks 
contain grain and flour; the casks hold oil of 
varying quality. 

Behind the barrel in the northwest corner of 
the chamber is a secret door. If the players push 
outward on the wall panel behind this barrel, 
the panel slides back to reveal a concealed 
room beyond. Stacked to the ceiling of this 
room are dozens of small oak casks of fine 
brandy, mead, and ale. On a table against the 
north wall is a small leather-bound box. Inside 
is a vial of clear liquid -a potion of sweet 
water. 

Citadel Upper Level 

From the landing on the upper level, an 
adjacent staircase leads to a trap door high in 
the ceiling. Above this trap door are open-air 
parapets which are constantly patrolled by 1-4 
of the citadel guards. 

5. Bathing and Privy Chamber 

The eastern portion of this bathing cham 
ber is occupied by a shallow, marble-inlaid 
pool. A garderobe, its door now hanging 
ajar, is built into the northwest comer. 


6. Study and Meeting Chamber 


From the richly veined rose marble of the 
fireplace in the northeast comer to the vel 
vet smoothness of the dark walnut pan 
eling, this room exudes an aura of wealth. 
The floor is covered by what is obviously a 
costly and very antique carpet of indeter 
minate hue. Three wine-colored uphol 
stered armchairs are clustered around the 
fireplace. Against the north wall is a small 
bookcase of some dark wood enclosed by a 
pair of leaded glass doors. Against the west 
wall is a carved walnut desk with a beauti 
ful matching high-backed chair. Half-a- 
dozen shadowed portraits bearing the 
accumulated grime of centuries stare down 
on the opulence. 


This chamber is Aimar's study. 

The single locked drawer in the desk con 
tains the duke's estate ledger. A quick look is 
sufficient to indicate that Andevar is far more 
prosperous than it looks. A closer examination 
reveals much concerning the duke's affairs, 
including the information that a substantial 
parcel of land north of Fontenmere Abbey and 
its proceeds were transferred from ducal 
authority to the control of William Menote, 
Patriarch of Fontenmere. This entry notes that 
the transfer, ordered by King Halfred in order 
to "provide for the maintenance of the abbey 
at Fontenmere," has been accomplished 


entirely "against the will of and under strong 
protest by the Duke of Andevar." 

Also stored in the desk drawer is a solid gold 
paperweight in the shape of a lion worth 200 
gp. Finally, in the very back of the drawer, is an 
apparently long-forgotten scroll. This is a 
cursed magic-user's scroll: any magic-user who 
reads it and fails to save vs. spells suffers a 
devastating, psionic-like mental attack. Losing 
both mind and personality, the victim is 
reduced to a vegetable state (a la feeblemind) 
with an Intelligence of 1. Speech and rational 
behavior are no longer possible; only basic 
motor functions remain. A successful alter 
reality or remove curse spell can restore the 
victim to normal functioning. 

If the drawer is removed completely, a keen 
eyed character notices a slim cord in the back 
of the drawer cavity. Pulling this cord draws 
forth a small secondary drawer from the back 
of the desk. Within is a magic-user's scroll of 
ESP. 

The bookcase contains four score handwritten 
books, many on the history of Dunador. A 
thorough examination of titles turns up one on 
the role of religion and the state in Dunadorian 
society written by William Menote, Patriarch of 
Fontenmere, and dedicated to "Good King 
Halfred." 

7. The Great Hall 


The most prominent feature of this large, 
finely appointed chamber is a long, carved 
oak trestle table lined with sumptuous high- 
backed, carved oak chairs upholstered in 
wine-red leather. Running the length of the 
south wall is a caved limestone fireplace. 
Above the mantle hangs a gold lion coat-of- 
arms. The other walls are clothed in fine 
antique tapestries whose slightly frayed 
appearance only confirms their great age 
and enhances their worth. Three large, gold 
candelabra rest atop the table. There is a 
glass-doored oak cabinet in the northeast 
corner. 


The candelabra are worth 200 gp each. The 
cabinet contains a silver service with a total 
value of 1.000 gp. The gold lion coat-of-arms, 
set into a wooden plaque, is worth 500 gp. It can 
be pried out of its mounting for easier carriage. 

8. Servants' Quarters 


The plainness of this chamber and its fur 
nishings is in sharp contrast to the elaborately 
carved door in the south wall. Against this 
masterpeice of the woodworker's art, the mis 
matched pair of beds, the two dented 
dressers and the duo of shabby night 


stands that make up the room's contents 
seem strangely out of place. Only the glossy 
animal skin rug in the center of the floor 
looks like it really belongs here. 


These are the quarters of the duke's body 
servants. The door in the south wall leads to 
the duke's bedchamber. It is securely bolted 
from room 9,has 50 hp, and can only be 
opened from room 8 if a knock spell is used or 
if the door is smashed to pieces. The chime of 
opening will not work against this simple bolt. 

Each nightstand contains a locked drawer. 
One drawer contains a sack of 50 ep, the other 
a sack of 20 gp. The rug is the pelt of a giant 
beaver. A ranger or a character with 
furrier/trapper secondary skill recognizes its 
worth: 1,000 gp. 

9. The Duke's Chamber 

The door to the duke's chamber is locked and 
wizard-locked. It can be opened by expending 
two charges from the chime of opening. In 
addition, a magic-user of the 6th level or 
better can automatically open the door once 
the normal lock is dealt with. Lesser magic- 
users must cast a knock spell in order to do so. 
The door (which has 50 hp) can also be 
broken down with an axe. 


A large, ornately carved four-poster occu 
pies the southeast corner of the chamber. Its 
bottle-green curtains are tied back to show 
that it is empty. Centered in the north and 
west walls are a pair of doors That in the 
north wall is flanked on one side by a five- 
drawer dresser and on the other by a tall 
cabinet whose double doors are inlaid in 
gold foil with the ducal coat of arms. A 
small chest sits atop a table in the southwest 
comer. The walls are decorated with fine 
tapestries. 


Once inside the room, the party is attacked 
by an invisible stalker (AC 3; MV 12 "; HD 
8; hp 50; #AT 1; D 4-16; AL N). The creature 
is invisible (-4 to hit). 30% resistant to magic, 
and is solely devoted to the purpose of 
defending Aimar's chamber. In melee, the 
characters suffer a -4 penalty to hit unless 
they can see invisible objects and creatures. 
The invisible stalker fights to the death. 

The cabinet is locked. Within are two score 
fine tunics, a score of pantaloons and dozens 
of shirts and pairs of stockings. Hanging in a 
separate compartment from the clothing is a 
suit of chain mail +2 in perfect condition and 
suitable for a large elf, half elf, or human. 
Also in this compartment is a battle axe +1 
and a broadsword +1. 

The top drawer of the dresser contains a 


10 














jumble of jars and bottles filled with sundry 
salves and powders. Most are perfectly mun 
dane, but a large jar marked "K. S." contains five 
applications of Keoghtom's Ointment. 

The locked chest holds 1,500 gp and 500 sp, in 
addition to the duke's neck brace of office worth 

200 gp. 

Below the table containing the chest is a loose 
flagstone covering a hidden recess in the floor. 
Here lies Aimar's spellbook, containing the fol 
lowing: magic missile, shocking grasp, charm 
person, jump, read magic, wizard lock, ray of 
enfeeblement, and fireball. Beside the spellbook 
is a small leather pouch containing a vial of liq 
uid. This is a specially magicked antidote to the 
cursed magic-user's scroll from room 6. Consum 
ing all of this liquid restores the victim's facul 
ties. It does not remit maladies stemming from 
any cause other than this scroll. 

Citadel Dungeon Level 

The downward spiral stairs on the ground level 
lead directly to room D1 of the dungeon. 

Dl. Jailor's Office 


A guttering torch stuck in a bracket set into 
the east wall provides little light and less 
warmth to this dank chamber of morticed 
stone. A filthy cot against the north wall is 
occupied by a dark-clad sleeping figure in 
grimy leather breeches and vest. Beside the 
bed is a big, iron-bound oak chest. 


The sleeping figure is Ranu, the jailor (AC 7; 
MV 6"; F4; hp 26; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LN). 
Nestled on the bed next to him (and obscured by 
his body) is a heavy club. A set of keys to all of 
the dungeon's cells hangs from his belt. 

The chest contains a motley collection of rusty, 
old weapons and bits of decaying armor. If any 
player characters have been captured, their 
weapons and armor ate also inside. Beneath the 
chest, under a loose flagstone, is Ranu's treasure 
trove of 50 gp, 800 sp, 3,000 cp, and a large 
amount of cheap jewelry worth 100 gp. 

D2. Wine Cellar 

The door to this room is locked. Sir Bracken 
carries the key on a chain around his neck. 


Clearly, the duke keeps his wine cellar well 
stocked. Row upon row of dusty bottles 
glitter in half a dozen ceiling-high racks set 
perpendicular to the north wall. Against the 
south wall, on either side of the door, are a 
dozen small casks resting in multi-tiered 
cradles. 


All of this wine, which is the product of local 
vineyards, is quite excellent. 


Map 4: Montinelle 
(citadel) 


Level II (upper level) 



Note: above level II are open-air parapets. 



Dungeon (lower level) 


Secret 

Underground 

Passage 



n 





















































































D3. Torture Chamber 


If the chains and manacles suspended from 
the main ceiling beams didn't indicate this 
chamber's purpose, the great rack and wheel 
in its center would do so. Clearly the duke 
takes the task of interrogation seriously. 
Suspended from hooks lining the west wall 
are a variety of tongs, pincers, nd other 
grisly looking tools, none of which seem 
like they could possibly have any 
wholesome purpose. Next to the door in the 
west wall is a large, deep brazier equipped 
with a sort of bellows. Set into the north, 
east, and south walls of the chamber are 
seven sturdy doors, each of which is 
equipped with a covered peephole. 


The seven doors lead to individual cells. Each 
4x4 inch wooden peephole cover is closed 
with a simple dead bolt. Sliding back the bolt 
allows the cover to swing back so that the cell 
within can be examined without having to 
actually open the door. The cell doors are 
locked from the outside with both key locks 
and heavy dead bolts. 

There is a secret door in the north wall of the 
chamber. Pulling a loose stone in that wall 
causes a counter-weighted segment of the wall 
to slide back revealing the secret passage lead 
ing to the barracks outside the citadel. A simi 
lar arrangement on the other side of the wall 
can be used to open and close the secret door 
from the passageway. Behind the loose stone 
on the dungeon side of the wall is a locking 
ring. If twisted to the right, it closes a bolt, 
preventing anyone from opening the secret 
door from the passageway. 

D4. Jail Cell 


This grimy, mean little room appears to be 
partly constructed of limestone blocks and 
partially cut from the living bedrock below 
Montinelle. Moisture oozes from the rock 
and soaks the decaying straw strewn over 
its rough flags. In several places the damp 
straw has been piled high to make a kind of 
nest for sleeping. The air is thick with the 
miasma left by the countless poor wretches 
who have been forced to accept its hospi 
tality in the past. 


If captured, the party is confined together in 
this large cell. Under a pile of straw in the 
northwest corner, the characters can find a 
loose flag. With much effort, it can be pried 
loose. Underneath, they find a blunted dagger, 
a rusty file, and a piece of a broken shield. By 
making use of the dagger and shield fragment 
as digging tools, a hearty dwarf should 


be able to break through the west wall where 
another loose stone covers the beginnings of a 
previous excavation. Five to eight hours of dil 
igent digging opens a way into the corridor 
west of the cell. 

If the party includes a thief, he might be able 
to jimmy the bolt locking the peephole and 
reach across to pick the lock securing the cell 
at shoulder level. Since this task must be 
performed by touch alone, it will be difficult, 
but hardly impossible. Once the lock has been 
picked, a heavy item might be used to knock 
back the door bolt (which can't be jimmied). 
Be lenient here. If the players come up with a 
thoughtful and viable escape plan, they should 
be rewarded with success. All other cells 
except D5 are empty. Use the description for 
D4 as the basic description for all of the other 
cells in the dungeon. 

D5. The Monk's Cell 

Like the other cells, D5 is partly constructed 
of mortared stone and partly cut from the 
bedrock under the castle. The description of 
cell D4 will serve to convey its general 
appear-ance. In addition, the cell contains 
another feature: 


Lying face down in the center of the cell is 
a tonsured man in a white woolen monk's 
robe, now filthy and tattered. The entire 
back of the robe is stained a rusty brown. At 
a distance, the man looks thoroughly 
deceased. 


If the characters enter the cell and examine 
the prisoner, they find that he is still alive, 
though barely so. If revivied and given drink 
to moisten his parched lips, he speaks. 


"Alas, brothers, I fear that you are too late. 
Already, I feel that coldness that so often 
presages the coming of the reaper. He 
cannot now be far from me, friends, so 
listen well. I have news that must reach the 
king's counselors. Know you, that there is 
much treachery abroad in this land, and now 
its hand has touched even that which all 
good men hold sacred. 

"I am called Theran, and I am a monk of 
Fontenmere. For long years have we loyally 
carried out the king's charge in our peaceful 
abbey, but now that is at an end. For red- 
handed death has fallen on our scented 
fields and quiet halls of prayer. Two days 
gone by, the abbey was attacked by the 
foulest of brigands. What may have been 
the outcome of their depredations I know 
not, for I was ordered by my master, the 
patriarch, to flee hence and beg succor from 
the king's liegeman at Montinelle. 


"Horror and death! Horror and death! E'en 
as I rode out on this fool's errand, one of the 
swine put an arrow deep in my back. 'Twas 
only the spirit and intelligence of my 
faithful mount that allowed me to come 
here at all. Bleeding and exhausted, with 
the screams of my brothers still ringing in 
my ears, I rode into Montinelle and laid my 
lord's charge before Sir Bracken. But the 
black-hearted scoundrel would not hear me. 
Instead of aid, he gave me this cell in which 
to die. 

"Aye. you understand too well. I can see it 
in your faces. The hired man. Bracken, 
would ne'er be so bold on his own. Such 
treachery must go deeper-to the very seat 
of Andevar and the person of the duke 
himself. Only orders from the lord of this 
place could have left me caged in this 
dungeon while murder was committed at 
Fontenmere Long has Aimar tended his 
anger against Fontenmere for the loss of 
lands that he deemed his own. Now it 
seems he has had his revenge. 

"Hear me, friends. I die now. But first I lay 
on you this charge. If you be true men of 
Dunador. ride now to Fontenmere and see 
what fate has befallen the king's abbey. The 
council must know of what happened there 
for Aimar's treason cannot possibly end at 
Fontenmere. Unless they are timely warned, 
I fear for our land. Unless..." 


With this last word, the monk gives a rattling 
cough and dies. Since the monk suffers from 
blood poisoning, a cure light wounds spell 
does nothing to prolong his life. A slow 
poison spell will, however, prolong the 
monk's life, and he passes out instead of 
dying. Even if he remains alive, he is unable 
to provide additional information or 
assistance other than guiding the parry to 
Fontenmere. In fact, he is too weak to do 
much more than sit a horse. If revived, Theran 
is (AC 7; MV 12"; Mk 4; hp 16; #AT O; AL 
LN). A careful examination of the monk's 
robe reveals an object sewn into its hem. The 
item is a gold ring bearing the cross of 
Dunador; it is a ring of protection +1. 

Leaving Montinelle 

Any conspicuous attempt to leave Montinelle 
arouses the castle guards. If the parry has 
escaped after having been arrested, any 
visible attempt to leave the castle arouses the 
guards unless the characters are somehow dis 
guised. Should the guards become aroused by 
an attempted exit, 4-16 guardsmen form a 
mounted pursuit group and try to overtake 


12 












Fontenmere Abbey 


and slay the parry. The mounted guardsmen 
have (AC 7; MV 24"; F4; hp 28; #AT 1; Dl-6; 
AL LN). They carry lances and swords. Their 
mounts are (AC 7; MV 24 "; HD 2; hp 14; 
#AT 0; S L; ALN). 

Once pursued, if the characters fail to 
maintain a 24" movement rate or if they do 
not take appropriate evasive action, the guards 
overtake them within 20 miles of Mon-tinelle. 
The guardsmen break off their pursuit after a 
30-mile chase or if they lose two-thirds of 
their force. 


While you are still well east of the abbey, it 
is obvious that all is not well. A wreath of 
pungent smoke hangs over the site. As you 
approach, details become clear. The wisps 
of smoke that float in the still air emanate 
from the bumed-out ruin of a small wood 
and stone structure north of what appears to 
be the main building. The great doors in the 
south wall of this latter structure have been 
knocked off their hinges. Two dead men in 
white monks' robes are sprawled on the 
front steps before the doors. Their bodies 
have been savaged by some animal. All of 
the visible windows have been wholly and 
partially smashed. Your view of the interior 
through the open doorway shows a vista of 
smashed pews and debris. 


1. Office _ 

The door to this chamber is smashed open 
and the chamber devastated. All of the 
furniture is smashed to kindling and torn 
papers and rare illuminated manuscripts are 
scattered amid the wreckage. 


There is nothing of real interest here. 

2. Monks' Living Quarters 


The four beds in this spartan chamber have 
been overturned and their straw tifcks have 
been slashed open. There is a movement in 
the southeast corner. 


Disturbed by the noise, two large spiders 
which have only recently entered the chamber 
through the broken window in the east wall 
crawl out from under some debris in the 
comer. Each has (AC 6; MV 18"; HD 2 +2; 
hp 17. 15; #AT 1; D 1-6 c poison 2; AL N). A 
victim bitten by a spider must save vs. poison 
at + 1 or die within six rounds. Hidden by the 
debris is a chest containing 400 gp. 

3. Writing Room 


The door to this chamber is open. Six tall 
writing desks lay toppled over on the floor 
of this chamber. Many writing materials- 
quill pens, ink wells, papers, and blotters - 
lie scattered about the room. The lifeless 
body of a monk is slumped against the 
south wall. 


The monk has been hacked to death with 
swords. On the floor beside the body is the 
word "Capel," written in a mixture of spilled 
ink and blood. This clue indicates that the 
royal seal and scepter of Dunador have been 


spirited away to Capel Tower. Before dying, 
the monk heard one of the "brigands" make a 
reference to this fortification in the north of 
Andevar. 

4. Monks' Quarters 


The smashed remnants of four twisted 
bedsteads and four splintered footlockers 
lie scattered about this chamber. A dozen 
savagely torn monks' habits and the tick 
ing from the beds is strewn across the stone 
flags. 


A careful examination of the room uncovers a 
flat wooden case under one of the beds in the 
southwest comer. The case holds a magical 
crossbow +1. 

5. West Chapel 


This antechamber seems almost intact. The 
altar in the center of the room seems 
undamaged, though it lacks its normal 
adornment. Even the prayer benches 
remain in place. Their kneeling cushions 
have, however, been ripped open and the 
stuffings scattered about the floor. 


There is nothing of interest here. 

6. East Chapel 


The altar piece in this chapel is unharmed 
though, like the others at Fontenmere, it 
lacks its altar cloth and service. A trap door 
in the floor has been ripped open to reveal a 
flight of stairs leading into the blackness 
below. 


The stairs end in an open door. This area is a 
single-room wine cellar (30x30 feet). Standing 
behind the door is a thief named Menlow. 
armed with a short sword. Having heard the 
party above and having no escape route, he 
intends to ambush whomever comes into the 
room. Menlow is (AC 7; MV 12"; T4; #AT 1; D 
1-6; AL CN). He attempts one surprise attack 
from the rear. If outnumbered or overmatched, 
the pragmatic Menlow surrenders after making 
this one attack and begs for mercy. 

Menlow wears leather armor and carries the 
following in his pack: two bottles of good 
quality wine; two altar cloths (50 gp each); two 
gold goblets that bear the abbey's insignia (50 
gp each); a golden cross of Dunador (150 gp); 
and a set of thiefs tools. Hidden in a leather 
pouch inside his tunic he carries 10 gp. 40 sp. 
and a parchment in the form of a letter 
addressed to "Holland at Dunthrane." This brief 
handwritten note reads as follows. 


13 
















Honored Friend, 

There is grave news. I have learned that 
Lord Edrin's men-at-arms have entered 
Andevar. Through an arrangement with 
the duke, they have made their headquar 
ters at Capel Tower along our northern 
border. The location is, as we both well 
know, an ideal base for scouting the trails 
through the Veronian Mountains. I fear 
now for the Prince's safety. Take care and 
look to yourself. 

Your Devoted Friend, 
William 


The letter is obviously from William Menote 
to Hollend. Its authenticity can be established 
beyond doubt by comparing the handwriting 
to that of any documents in the patriarch's 
chamber (room 8). 

Menlow has looted this leather pouch from 
the body of a monk who was preparing to 
leave for Dunthrane when the brigands (Lord 
Edrin's men in disguise) attacked, although 
also a chief in his own right, Menlow is cur 
rently acting as an agent of Sir Bracken, the 
commander of the Duke of Andevar's castle at 
Montinelle. At Bracken's order, he has come to 
Fontenmere to investigate the report of this 
attack. Having established the facts in the 
matter, he is to meet Kirkroy. the Duke's 
champion, at Barbarian's Bridge (north of 
Capel Tower) and report his findings. From 
the patriarch's letter and his own observa 
tions, Menlow is rightly convinced that Lord 
Edrin's men are responsible for sacking the 
abbey. 

Menlow's cover is that he is a thief returning 
to Andevar from the far west. If bribed or 
threatened, this is the story that he offers the 
party. If pressed further, he provides details, 
claiming to be heading for the Drake & Castle 
Inn to stay with a distant cousin. He even 
identifies Graf, the innkeeper at the Drake & 
Castle, by name. If he is able to lull the party's 
suspicions, Menlow, pretending to be 
talkative, advises them to avoid the open road 
east of Montinelle since "it be a'crawl wi' 
brigands" and advises them to take the 
covered route through the Lusian Forest 
instead. He well knows that no one familiar 
with the area would go through the dreaded 
Darkwood and considers this bit of 
misdirection quite clever. If an astute member 
of the parry wonders how someone returning 
from the west knows so much about the roads 
to the east, Menlow becomes flustered and 
shuts up. 

Unless challenged concerning his 
information, Menlow is quite affable with 
party members, in an effort to lull them into 
complacency. Whether sullen or affable, how 
ever, the thief takes the first available 


14 











































































































































































opportunity to escape if detained by the char 
acters. If successful in this endeavor, he meets 
Kirkroy at the end of three days and reports on 
events at the abbey and the presence of the 
party in Andevar. 

Menlow knows nothing about Griffon Castle 
or the whereabouts of Duke Aimar. 

7. Chapter House 

This chamber bears all the coats-of-arms of 
Dunador on its walls. All of the shields and 
banners are undisturbed except for one: the 
banner of the royal house of Dunthrane, 
which lies draped over the body of a dead 
monk. The royal insignia bears the light blue 
symbols of the crown, the sword, and the 
Dunadorian cross on a field of canary yellow. 

8. Patriarch's Chamber 


This finely appointed chamber appears to 
be a combination office and bedroom. A 
small but comfortable-looking bed 
occupies the southeast comer. There is a 
small writing desk beside it. Floor-to- 
ceiling bookcases are built into the wall on 
either side of the door. Their contents have 
been tumbled onto the floor. A large chest 
lies overturned in the center of the 
chamber. Amongst the debris littering the 
floor is the body of a monk wearing a white 
robe trimmed in red. 


The body is that of William Menote, Patriarch 
of Fontenmere, a supposition which the players 
can easily verify by checking the portrait of 
William Menote carried by the party's leader. 
Within eight rounds of entering the room, 
everyone must save vs. spell or flee the chamber 
in terror. Those who stay see a ghostly figure 
rise from the dead patriarch's body. The 
transparent figure hovers for a moment and then 
speaks in a quiet but eerie voice. 


"I am the spirit of William Menote, once 
patriarch of Fontenmere... now murdered. 
Know you, mortals, that I appear before 
you because I cannot rest. An outrage has 
been committed here, a desecration 
beyond all enduring. The royal seal and 
scepter of Dunador have been stolen by 
the forces of darkness. These things must 
be returned. They must be brought back! 
Without them, there can be no corona 
tion, and no king in Dunador. Without our 
king, there can be no peace, neither for the 
living of Dunador nor for the dead of 
Fontenmere! 


So saying, the patriarch utters a wail of 
despair and disappears. Viewing this spirit 


does not cause unnatural fear or aging. 

A small cloth pouch is tacked to the bottom of 
the patriarch's writing desk. It holds a clerical 
ring of spell storing with four spells: remove 
curse, cure serious wounds, dispel magic, and 
spiritual hammer. The ring can be used by 
anyone and can be recharged. 

9. The Royal Chapel 

The walls of this chapel are broken by rows 
of niches, each containing a fine alabaster 
carving of one of the kings of Dunador. 
Each carving stands 5 feet high, and the 
name of the king it represents is etched in 
the wall above the effigy in the common 
tongue of the kingdom. One of the statues 
has been smashed and the nave above it 
partly scratched out. On the east wall, an 
iron grid has been ripped away from a 
recess in the scene. A finely embroidered 
purple cushion rests on a bare marble plinth 
in the center of the otherwise empty cavity. 


It should be clear to the players that this is the 
chamber that once held the royal seal and 
scepter of Dunador. The broken statue is that 
of King Halfred. 

10. Main Altar 


A long, semicircular stone altar rests flush 
against the north wall. A blue and gold altar 
cloth covers the fixture. The altar is topped 
by a large silver cross. There is a small 
marble font next to the altar. 


The cross is typical of Dunadorian design, 
having heavy balls at the end of each arm. It is 
worth 500 gp. Hidden in a secret compart 
ment in the base of the altar is a Superior Mas 
ter's Manual of Bodily Health. Any monk who 
studies this book is cured of 3-6 points of dam 
age and all diseases and adds 1 point to his or 
her Constitution score. A complete reading of 
the manual requires one week. 

11. Lady Chapel 


As you are entering this chapel, you are 
startled by the muffled sound of a grunt 
from the northwest corner. There is a 
strong animal smell in the air, and there 
are coarse hairs caught in the splintered 
frame of the door by which you are enter 
ing the chamber. 


A giant boar has recently entered this chamber 
in search of food. The creature is (AC 6; MV 
12"; HD 7; hp 46; #AT 1; D 3-18; AL N). 
Trapped inside the chamber by the party's 


presence, it fights to the death. 

This chamber was in the process of being 
renovated when the abbey was sacked. Scaf 
folding lines the south wall. The various statues 
and carvings have been cleaned with a lime 
wash treatment to restore them to their original 
color. The acid used in this process is not strong 
enough for use as a weapon. In the northwest 
comer is a pile of rags and miscellaneous small 
files and other tools. Among the rags is a 
leather pouch filled with 400 gp worth of gold 
chips used for doing gold inlay. 

A careful examination of the stone and wood 
debris in the southeast comer uncovers a metal 
arm brace bearing a small insignia in the shape 
of a raven. The brace was dropped by one of 
Edrin's men. It is a clue to the tme identities of 
the brigands. 

12. Kitchen House 


This building has been razed almost to the 
ground. Amid the jumble of charred beams 
and broken, blackened stones are the 
skeletal remains of half a dozen bodies. 


The bodies are the mortal remains of four 
monks and two servants who sought refuge 
inside the kitchen house and were burned out 
by the brigands. A careful search uncovers an 
iron box containing 40 pp and a small oilskin 
bag filled with a soft resin. This substance is a 
special detoxin. If applied to any poisonous 
bite or wound with eight rounds, it neutralizes 
all ill effects. There are three applications in 
the bag. The detoxin may be used externally 
only. A monk will know the properties of the 
resin and a cleric has a base chance of 60% to 
identify it. 

Behind the gutted building is a small but 
dense stand of trees. Hidden in this tiny wood 
is a horse, tethered to a tree. This animal, a 
medium war horse (AC 7; MV 18; HD 2 + 2; 
hp 17; #AT 3, D 1-6/1- 6/1-3; AL N). belongs 
to Menlow, the thief. In the horse's saddle 
bags are iron rations for a week, normal 
provisions for a week, pots, pans, clothes, and 
a bedroll. At the bottom of one of the bags is a 
blue-enameled copper brooch used to fasten a 
cloak. The brooch is engraved with the golden 
lion insignia of the Duke of Andevar. 


15 














Open Road 

(Only if the group has first gone to Mon- 
tinelle; then to the Abbey) 

If the characters have visited Montinelle and 
been identified as hostile to the duke or other 
wise suspicious, there is one patrol of the 
duke's men looking for them on the main road 
from west of Montinelle to the Drake and 
Castle Inn. If the group moves northeast on 
the main road from Fontenmere, they are cer 
tain to encounter this patrol which is easily 
identified by their livery (the blue tunic with 
gold lion of the Duke of Aimar). The horse 
men fight to the death. They include: 

1 sergeant: AC 5; MV 24"; F4; hp 36, #AT 1; 

D 1-8 (sword); ALN 
The sergeant carries 1-20 gp. 

9 troopers: AC 6, MV 24"; F3; hp 22; #AT 1; 
D 1-6 (lance); ALN 

Each trooper carries 1-20 gp and a sword. 

10 light horses: AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 13 
each; #AT Nil; S L; AL N 


The Darkwood is a dangerous place. If the 
party chooses to follow this path, it should be 
a memorable experience. Make three wander 
ing monster checks; one for every 15 miles of 
the group's progress through the forest. An 
encounter occurs on a roll of 1 or 2 on Idb. 
The exact nature of the encounter is found on 
the Lusian Forest Wandering Monster Table. 

Lusian Forest Wandering Monster Table 

Roll Result 

1 Skeletons (10): AC 7; MV 12"; hp 8 
each; HD 1; #AT 1; D 1-6 (short sword); 
ALN 

2 Wraiths(3): AC 4; MV 12 7 24 "; hp 18, 
22, 23; HD 5+3; #AT 1; D 1-6 (energy 
drain); AL E 

3 Zombies (8): AC 8; MV 6", hp 9, 11, 13, 
13, 14, 15, 15, 16; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
ALN 

4 Zombies (6): AC 8; MV 6"; hp 11, 12, 
13, 14, 15, 16; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL 
N 

5 Wights (4): AC 5; MV 12"; hp 16, 17, 
13, 24; HD 4+3; #AT 1; D 1-4 (energy 
drain); AL E 

6 Wights (2): AC 5, MV 12"; hp 22, 24; 
HD 4+3; #AT 1; D 1-4 (energy drain); 
ALE 

The Lusian Forest Wandering Monster Table 
is used only when the party is within the 
Lusian Forest. 

Menlow does not willingly accompany the 
party into the Lusian Forest. Only if bound or 
closely guarded does he stay with the party 
when they enter this area. However, once 
inside the forest, Menlow, realizing that his 
only hope of survival lies with the party, will 
ingly throws in his lot with them. He fights 
alongside the characters and uses his skills on 
their behalf (without ever, however, admitting 
that he has any knowledge of the forest's 
wicked reputation). As soon as the party is out 
of the forest, Menlow again tries to escape. He 
does not willingly visit the Drake and Castle 
Inn because of his fear that his talkative cousin 
will accidentally give him away. 

Upon reaching the midpoint of their journey 
through the woods, read the following passage 
to the players: 


You have been traveling through this 
dense forest for many miles. Your horses 
seem uneasy and your own spirits droop 
as you ride deeper and deeper into the dim 
and brooding wood. At length, you come 
to a widening in the roadway. In the midst 
of a clearing grows a huge, ancient tree 
whose arching limbs cast the otherwise 
open area into deep shadow. Its twisted, 
gnarled trunk exhibits numerous 
imperfections and holes. Scattered about 
the tree bole are the skeletons, armor, and 
rotting garments of a number of humans 
or humanoids. Many of the skeletal 
figures grip rusting weapons. The air is 
deathly still and somehow oppressive. 
Each of you is consumed by an 
overpowering feeling of dread. 


The tree trunk is the dark resting place of a 
groaning spirit (AC O; MV 15 "; HD 7; hp 36; 
D 1-8 (touch); SA wail; AL CE). Entering the 
25-foot by 25-foot clearing causes the groan 
ing spirit to emanate from one of the holes in 
the tree. The sight of this entity forces every 
one in the party to save vs. spells or flee in ter 
ror back down the road and out of earshot. The 
groaning spirit attacks with its chilling touch. 
On a roll of 1 or 2 on ld6, it wails once. 
Whoever hears this terrible sound must save vs. 
death or die on the spot. The groaning spirit is 
immune to cold or electricity attacks and also 
to the following spells: charm, sleep, and hold. 
A successful exorcism kills the groaning spirit. 

This entity is the undead spirit of a female elf, 
once known as Lusian. A dabbler in the black 
arts, she brought ruination on the elven 
community who dwelt in this wood before the 
time of man. So wicked was she that the elven 
god, Rillifane Rallathil, bound her to this fate 
after death. The undead in this wood are the 
spirits of her victims. The skeletons around the 
tree are the remains of passing adventurers. 
Some aspiring knights and warriors of 
Dunador, having thought to perform their rite 
of passage" by riding through the Darkwood, 
have paid for their arrogance with their lives. If 
the groaning spirit is destroyed, the wood 
becomes peaceful again. 

A careful search of the debris and weaponry 
surrounding the tree reveals a magical shield 
+1. Inside the tree trunk is a chest containing 
4,000 gp, a potion of undead control (wraiths), 
and a magic user's scroll lightning bolt. At the 
base of the tree trunk, there is a long sword in a 
scabbard. A detailed inscription on the blade 
identifies it as a sword +1, +2 against magic 
using or enchanted creatures (including magic 
users, spell-casting monsters, created or 
summoned creatures. 


16 










The Drake & Castle Inn is the only stopover 
for travelers along the main road between 
Montinelle and the Northlands, and also does 
a small, but profitable business serving pil 
grims bound for the Shrine of Nevron. As the 
party approaches the inn they see three horses 
and a pack mule tied up outside the front 
entrance. Two horses and the mule stand apart 
from the third horse. 

If the party investigates the animals, they 
discover that the two horses and the mule 
belong to two merchants. The animals' saddle 
bags and packs literally bulge with linens, 
silks, cheap trinkets, and jewelry. The third 
horse carries two saddle bags. One bag con 
tains a sleeping roll and ordinary personal 
items. The other bag holds a set of thiefs 
tools, a throwing dagger provisions, and at the 
bottom of the bag, a small leather pouch. The 
pouch contains a small silver icon engraved 
with the insignia of Fontenmere Abbey. 

There are four people at the inn; a barman 
behind the curving bar, two merchants at the 
round table, and a figure sitting at the booth 
in the southeast comer, huddled deep in his 
dark, hooded cloak and trying quite unsuc 
cessfully to look inconspicuous. 

Graf the innkeeper: AC7; MV 9"; F3; hp 22; 
#AT 1;D 1-6 (club); AL N 
Treat him as if he wears leather armor 
because of his heavy serving clothes. 

In most respects, Graf is a true neutral. His 
business depends on it. However, for 2 gp per 
question, he will provide the following 
answers (or whatever variation seems appro 
priate) in an oily and ingratiating voice: 


Pilgrims! Why certainly, good sirs. Pil 
grims are something one sees a lot of at the 
Drake & Castle. Why, just a bit over a week 
ago I had one rather curious party in here. 
On their way to Nevron, of course. 
Nothing unusual in chat, but they seemed 
too fine to be common folk. More like 
royalty, if you catch my drift. 

Riders! Why now that you ask, there was 
one rather large parry of riders that passed 
by last week. Why, yes. In fact, it was just 
an hour or so after that party of pilgrims I 
told you about. Very strange business. I 
remember, because, you see, they didn't 
stop in here. Unusual. This being the only 
inn between the Three Feathers and the 
Boar's Bride up by Coldwater in the 
Northlands, it's not often that a party just 
rides on by. Something else unusual, too. 
Hot weather last week. Very hot. But they 
were all bundled up in heavy cloaks, and 
under the cloaks you could see blue tunics 
peeking out as they rode. Now, I ask you, 
who, in that kind of weather, wears 


a tunic and a heavy cloak! 

Yes, well now, Capel Tower. No mystery 
there. Just stay on the north road here 
instead of taking the turnoff to Nevron. 
That'll take you right to the tower with no 
trouble. Its right on the River Laine, just 
about 40 miles north of here. Hardly any 
distance at all for gentlemen such as 
yourselves. 


Menlow! Hmmm. Uh, yes. I do have a 
cousin named Menlow. No close relation, 
you understand. Haven't seen him in some 
time now. Last I heard, he was in 
Montinelle in the duke's service. Actually, 
we all hoped that would straighten him out 
a bit, but I don't suppose it has. The boy 
was always a miserable little sneak. 


Map 6: The Drake & Castle Inn 

1 square = 10 feet 


Main Road to Montinelle 



Booths and Tables 
Large Round Table 



17 


































If Menlow is present with the party, he tries 
(by hand motions or facial expressions) to sig 
nal Graf to help him, but Graf assumes that his 
blacksheep cousin is in on some secret 
business and is indicating that he would like to 
have his presence ignored. Thus, he studi 
ously pretends not to recognize Menlow until 
openly confronted with his presence. Under no 
circumstances does Graf help Menlow escape. 

Merchants (2): AC 7; MV 9"; F2; hp 10, 12; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (short swords); capes and 
leather tunics; AL N 

Between them, these two merchants, Fenn 
and Swaine, carry 115 gp. They are traveling 
to Montinelle from the far north to do some 
business. If questioned, they remember hav 
ing yesterday seen a motley band of hard- 
riding horsemen who passed them heading 
north on the main road just this side of the 
River Laine. The incident sticks in their minds 
because the riders looked like brigands, caus 
ing Fenn and Swaine to take momentary fright 
and hide in some bushes, a state of affairs 
which both men now view with rueful humor. 
If the players do not at first catch the signifi 
cance of the merchants' story, make it clear 
that the group of riders they are describing 
were nothing like those described by Graf. 
Grafs group appeared to be soldiers of some 
sort, while the merchants' group seemed to be 
brigands. 

The soldiers were the Duke of Andevar's men 
who seized the prince. The second group 
(brigands) are Lord Edrin's men who sacked 
Fontenmere Abbey and made off with the 
royal seal and scepter of Dunador. The Duke's 
men have ridden north of the River Laine 
while Edrin's men are at the Capel Tower. 

Harkin: AC 4; MV 12 "; T4; hp 21; #AT 1; D 
2-9 (long sword +1); AL E 

The man in the corner is a thief named 
Harkin, a member of Edrin's group of "brig 
ands" that sacked Fontenmere. He wears 
bracers of defense AC 6, a leather jerkin, and 
carries 40 gp in a pouch around his waist. As 
soon as the characters begin to question the 
others, Harkin makes as if to leave the inn. 
Finding the group suspicious, he intends to 
ride to Capel Tower and inform Edrin's chief 
henchman, Mendal Secord, about the group's 
presence in Andevar. If questioned or con 
fronted, Harkin attacks without warning, 
trying to cut a way clear to his horse which is 
tethered outside. If unable to escape, he fights 
to the death. However, an ESP spell reveals 
that he is one of Edrin's "brigands" and that 
the royal seal and scepter of Dunador 


are at Capel Tower. He does not know where 
the prince is. 

Layout of the Inn 

Stools stand in front of the semicircular bar. 
Behind the bar is a tall shelving unit stocked 
with all types of wines and spirits. Under the 
bar are several casks filled with ale of 
various quality. Graf also provides bread and 
cheese to hungry wayfarers. Drake & Castle 
prices: ale 17 cp, beer 8 cp, mead 8 sp, wine 
10 sp, other spirits 12 sp a glass, and Grafs 
ploughman's lunch of bread and cheese 1 gp. 
Grafs room is at the back of the inn through 
a door behind the bar. The chamber contains 
a bed, table, and two straight-back chairs, 
and a pair of footlockers. One footlocker 
contains odds and ends of clothing and 
personal items. The other footlocker con 
tains a suit of chain mail armor, a shield, and 
a long sword +1. Grafs life savings are 
secreted in an old chest hidden under the bed 
beneath the floor boards. The chest contains 
200 gp, 400 sp, and 2,000 cp. 

At the back of the inn, tethered in a sort of 
lean-to, is Grafs old horse. 

Horse: AC 7; HD 2 + 2; MV 18"; hp 9; #AT 
Nil. AL N 

A small, free-standing enclosure behind the 
inn contains about two dozen chickens. A 
goat is tethered to a nearby post. 

Leaving the Drake 
& Castle Inn 

Before they leave the inn, Graf repeats his 
instructions for reaching Capel Tower. If the 
characters ask about the Shrine of Nevron, 
he informs them that travel on horseback is 
not possible in the higher reaches of the 
Veronian Mountains. Graf sells the 
characters any provisions they need at 
normal prices. 


If the characters proceed to Nevron, read this 
passage to them. 


From the turning in the main road, the 
small track to Nevron winds its way along 
forested foothills rich with the scent of 
pine and fir tree. As the path winds ever 
higher up into the Veronian Mountains, the 
gently rolling hills give way to steeper, 
granite-faced cliffs and misty hollows. 


When the characters reach a spot about 10 
miles due southwest of the shrine, read this 
passage. 


As the trail continues to wind up the steep 
sides of the mountains, the footing 
becomes more and more treacherous and 
uneven. You approach an out-jutting lip of 
rock, forming a sort of natural shelter. 
Ahead, you can see that the path narrows, 
weaving in and out between cowering rock 
formations and ascending abruptly. 


At this point, mounted progress is no longer 
possible. You should point this out to the 
characters and suggest that this is a good place 
to tether their horses in relative safety. 

For the last 10 miles, the characters have to 
climb about 2,000 feet to reach the shrine at an 
elevation of 6,000 feet. As the party passes 
through the wooded area indicated on the 
Shrine of Nevron map, they are surprised by a 
marauding cave bear whose disposition has 
been unbalanced by the coming of spring. 
Driven into a frenzy by its derangement, the 
bear fights to the death. 

Bear: AC 6, MV 12 "; HD 6 c 6; hp 55; #AT 3; 

D 1-8, 1-8, 1-12; SA hugs for 2-16; S L; AL N 

If the characters search the vicinity, they find 
the bear's den 60 feet due east of this encounter 
location. Among a pile of bones near the cave 
mouth is a rotting leather satchel. Barely 
contained by the rotting material is a cache of 
gold nuggets worth 300 gp. this trove of an 
unfortunate dwarven miner who fell victim to 
the bear. 


18 












After climbing many hundreds of feet on 
the narrow path, at last you come to a level 
area like a small plateau surrounded by 
steep-faced cliffs. At the north end of this 
natural basin is a large cave mouth 20 feet 
wide and 10 feet high. In front of the cave, 
anchored atop a large, flat rock, is a cross of 
Dunador. 


The cross is made of oak and sunk part way 
into the rock. There is nothing to keep the 
characters from entering the cave mouth. Once 
they do so, they see the following: 


From the cliff-side entrance, a long, deep 
cave with irregular 10-foot high ceiling, 
stretches into the darkness. The sound of 
running water resonates throughout the 
cavern. Dimly visible in the darkness is a 
crystal rock formation by the north wall. A 
fountain-like stream of water gushes forth 
from the rock and tumbles into a catchpool 
in front. Thousands of tiny lights wink and 
sparkle in the crystal rock formation like 
so many imprisoned fireflies. 


The characters may approach the rock and 
fountain at their leisure. 

As the characters are about to leave the cave 
(or when anyone tampers with the crystal), a 
shaft of golden light emanates form inside the 
crystal rock. Characters of neutral or evil 
alignment are instantly turned from the cave. 
Characters of good alignment experience the 
following telepathic communication: 


Listen seeker, for I am the Oracle of 
Nevron and I know why you have come. 
You seek the true heir to this kingdom. He 
is in grave danger. Look for him in the west 
where the waters flow... where the bird 
meets the lion. 


Having said this, the oracle is silent, and the 
odd golden light fades into darkness. 

The last two lines of the oracle's message are 
references to Griffon Castle (a griffon is part 
bird and part lion). It also has a double meaning, 
referring to the lion symbol of Aimar and the 
raven symbol of Lord Edrin, the evil alliance. 

Drinking the Water 
of Nevron 

Any clerics of good alignment who drink the 
water improve their Wisdom scores by 1. 
However, thereafter, they also become lawful 
good in alignment. 

The leader of the group, if a fighter or fighter 
multiclass of good alignment, may improve his 
or her Strength score by 1 by 


drinking the water. Once again, though, this 
character's alignment changes to lawful good, 
if applicable. 

Paladins who drink the water add 1 point to 
both Wisdom and Strength scores. 

Individuals suffering an alignment change as 
a result of drinking the waters of Nevron lose 
one level of experience, as described on page 
25 of the DMG. All characters who drink the 
waters are considered to have suffered an 


"involuntary" alignment change, even if they 
have observed the waters' effect on those who 
drank before them. Characters will have their 
ability scores or alignments affected only once 
by the waters of Nevron in this adventure. 

Persons other than those mentioned above 
neither benefit from drinking the water nor 
suffer an alignment change from doing so. 
Persons of evil alignment, however, feel nau 
seated after drinking. 


Map 7: The Shrine of Nevron 



19 

















































































The Capel Tower is a fortification located 
three miles south of the River Laine. As part 
of Dunador's northern defense, the tower is 
under Duke Aimar's jurisdiction, but subject 
to royal policy and use. Currently, as pan of 
Edrin's and Aimar's secret alliance, Lord 
Edrin's men are using Capel Tower as their 
base of operation in Andevar. All of the tow 
er's occupants are human, and all are in 
Edrin's service except for the steward, the 
kitchen servant and the turnkey, who are 
Aimar's men. 

Roster: The Capel Tower Roster lists all 
guards at the Capel Tower. Each guard wears 
a dark gray tunic emblazoned with Edrin's 
black raven device. 


Capel Tower Roster 


Class/Level 

AL 

Weapons 

Combat Bonus 

Armor 

AC 

hp 

F4 

LE 

sword, bow 

+1 with bow 

chain & shield 

5 

33 

F5 

LE 

sword, bow 


chain & shield 

4 

41 

F3 

LE 

spear, crossbow 

+1 with X-bow 

splint 

6 

22 

F2 

LE 

spear, sword 


ring 

7 

14 

F4 

LE 

sword, crossbow 


chain 

6 

28 

F3 

LE 

axe, sword 

+1 with axe 

leather 

8 

24 

F4 

LE 

axe, mace 


chain & shield 

6 

36 

F2 

LE 

axe, dagger 


chain & shield 

4 

17 

F3 

LE 

sword, flail 

+1 with sword 

splint & shield 

5 

21 

F5 

LE 

bow, dagger 

+1 with bow 

chain 

6 

40 

F5 

LE 

bow, mace 

+1 with bow 

splint 

6 

38 

F4 

LE 

bow, sword 


chain 

6 

30 

F3 

LE 

bow, sword 

+1 with bow 

leather 

7 

22 

F4 

LE 

sword, spear 


chain & shield 

5 

30 

F3 

LE 

crossbow, mace 

+1 with X-bow 

ring 

6 

26 

F5 

LE 

bow, dagger 

+1 with bow 

chain 

6 

46 


Each guard carries 2-40 sp and 1-10 gp. Sta 
tion these men-at-arms as needed, consistent 
with the encounter descriptions that follow. 

Capel Tower sits only a few hundred feet 
west of the main road, facing east toward the 
mountains. Constructed of large blocks of 
mossy limestone, its square mass is sur 
rounded by a 10-foot-deep, weed-choked moat 
fed by an underground spring During daylight, 
the drawbridge is down, but so is the 
portcullis. At night, the drawbridge is up and 
covers the entrance arch. 

The tower steward and four men-at-arms are 
always at the front entrance, they stop and 
question anyone seeking entry. If the charac 
ters arrive at the Chapel Tower unannounced 
and state that they have important inform 
ation for the tower's commander or devise a 
similar story, the steward lets them in. 
Otherwise, he sends them on their way. 
Persistent attempts to get into the tower after 
having once been denied entry results in arrow 
attacks from the walls. The men at Capel 
Tower are in a constant state of combat 
readiness. 

If Elarkin the thief from the Drake and Castle 
Inn, arrives at Capel Tower before the party, 
he informs the guards of the parry's presence 
in the area. In this case, when the characters 
arrive at the tower, its occupants invite them to 
enter and ambushes them in the courtyard (2.). 

The tower's parapets are 40 feet high and the 
four small guard towers are 54 feet high at the 
comers. At any one time, there is one guard in 
each guard tower and two guards patrolling 
the open-air parapets atop the walls of the 
main tower. In the event of open hostilities, 
mobilize all the men-at-arms in a way 
consistent with an intelligent and spirited 
defense of the tower. Ten of the guards, for 
instance, have crossbows or bows. These men 


would naturally fire arrows from the walls or 
turret tops. 

The Moat 

The moat contains six giant leeches (AC 9; 
MV 3"; HD 1; hp 8 each; #AT 1; D 1-4; SA 
drain blood; AL N). The leeches attach 
themselves to a victim (l-4)and drain one point 
of blood per round until knocked off or killed. 
There is only a 1% chance that the victim is 
aware of the creatures' attack because of the 
leeches' anesthetizing saliva. There is a 50% 
chance that the bite causes a disease which, if 
left untreated, is fatal in 2-5 weeks. 

Capel Tower: Level I 

1. Entrance and Gatehouse 

There are four guards on duty behind the 
lowered portcullis. Any attempted intrusion 
causes them to summon Sigmund, the tower 
steward, from his office (5). Sigmund is (AC 3; 
MV 9"; F4' hp 28; #Att 1; D 1-8 (sword); AL 
LN). He wears no livery. Instead, the 
breastplate of his fine plate mail armor is 
emblazoned with Duke Aimar's golden lion 
insignia. He carries 1-20 gp in a pouch and 
wears a silver chain of office around his neck. 

A pair of winches inside the gatehouse control 
the drawbridge and portcullis. 

2. Open-Air Courtyard 

Many covered water barrels stand near the 
walls around this courtyard. The walls are 
pierced here and there with narrow windows. 
There are no other features of note. 

3a. and 3b. Stables 

There are 14 horses at the tower, seven in each 
stable. Each stable contains 10 small, cramped 
stalls. 


4. Jailer's Office 


A shriveled little old man in an ancient suit 
of leather armor sits at a rough oak plank 
desk against the wet wall. He halfheartedly 
sharpens a rusty-looking short sword. In the 
floor next to the west wall is an open trap 
door. 


The aged gentleman is Oswald, the turnkey. 
He is (AC 8; MV 6"; F4. #AT 1; D 1-6 (short 
sword); AL LN). Around his neck he wears a 
pouch containing 1-10 sp and a large key 
which unlocks the door to the dungeon below. 
Being so old. Oswald would rather sound the 
alarm than fight. If unable to summon help, he 
tries to surrender if it looks as if his life might 
be spared. 

A spiral staircase leads from the trap door to 
the dungeon below. A deep drawer in the desk 
holds iron rations and a half-empty flask of 
mead. 

Dl. Dungeon Level 


The spiral staircase leads to a dank 
limestone corridor, featureless except for a 
heavy door at its eastern end. The door's 
oak planks are pierced by a single barred 
window. 


Behind the door is a cell holding a pair of 
simple farmers, incarcerated for being late to 
pay their taxes. If questioned by the characters, 
the farmers are unable to provide meaningful 
information. However, they indicate that they 
know someone who can be of more help: Eli 
the huntsman, considered by the local 
peasantry to be the wisest man north of 
Fontenmere. According to the farmers, Eli 


20 













lives on the north short of the River Laine, 
about a mile west of the bridge (note map for 
players). 

5. Steward's Office 


This circular chamber is dominated by a 
narrow, stone spiral staircase in its center. 
A battered old desk occupies the south 
wall. Above it hangs the duke's golden 
lion coat-of-arms. A small rack of lances 
stands near the west wall. A rumpled bed 
and a footlocker against the east wall com 
plete the room's furnishing. 


The staircase leads to room 15. 

The desk's center drawer contains a mundane 
assortment of papers detailing the stores 
currently held in the tower. The locked 
footlocker contains a battle axe, a shield, two 
long swords, and a sack holding 300 sp. The 
lance rack against the west wail holds six 
lances. 

Sewn inside Sigmund's mattress is a small 
leather pouch containing five pearls and six 
rubies (each worth 30 gp). 


6. Barracks 


A spiral staircase winds up through the 
center of this chamber. Placed symmetri 
cally about this chamber are eight narrow 
beds. The head of each rests against the 
wall; the foot points toward the central spi 
ral staircase. At the foot of each bed is a 
sturdy-looking footlocker. 


The staircase leads to room 13. 

The footlockers are unlocked. Each contains 
articles of clothing. One of them contains 1-20 
sp tied up in an old rag. Another contains 1-20 
sp in a small leather pouch 

7. Barracks 


A spiral staircase winds up through th 
center of this chamber. Placed symmetri 
cally about this chamber are eight narrow 
beds. The head of each rests against the 
wall; the foot points reward the central 
staircase. At the foot of each bed is a 
sturdy-looking footlocker. 


The staircase leds to room 11. 

The footlockers contain clothing and other 
personal items, the footlocker nearest the exit 
door contains a gorgeous linen altar cloth 
embroidered with the emblem of Fontenmere 
Abbey (30gp). 

8. Armory 


This room is obviously an armory. Lining 
ics curved walls are many racks of efficient 
looking and brightly-polished weapons. 
Spears, lances, javelins, crossbows, and 
long bows abound. In the gaps between 
weapons racks are four iron-bound chests. 
The spiral stairs in the center of the room 
lead up to a trap door in the ceiling which 
is closed with a deadbolt. 


Each of the five racks hold 16 weapons. The 
easternmost chest contains 50 heavy iron 
spikes. Moving clockwise around the room, 
the other chests contain 200 crossbow bolts. 
300 arrows, and 6 grappling hooks (each with 
50 feet of rope attached) respectively. 

The trap door leads to room 9. 



21 





































Capel Tower: Level II 

9. Storeroom 

The doors to this storeroom are locked. 


The floor of this room is amply occupied by 
six upright barrels. Against the walls are 
racks filled with scaled kegs. 


Three barrels hold wine; the others hold 
drinking water. There are four kegs each of 
ale, brandy, and mead. There are no spiral 
stairs in this room. The trap door in the floor is 
locked from below by a dead bolt. 

10. Cookhouse 


A large, grimy brick oven occupies the 
north wall. It is flanked on either side by a 
stack of mealy bags. The south wall is 
lined with scarred wooden counters. 
Beneath them are a number of produce 
bins stuffed with fresh vegetables. All 
manner of cooking utensils litter the 
counters and hang from heavy iron hooks 
in the ceiling beams. Standing at one 
comer is a large man in breeches, shirt, and 
cloth apron. He is using a cleaver to bone a 
brace of hares. 


The mealy bags contain flour and grain. The 
man with the cleaver is Dewey, the house 
hold servant and caretaker assigned to Capel 
Tower by Aimar. Dewey is a simple-minded, 
but good-natured soul who neither fights nor 
raises an alarm. He speaks with the parry 
happily and at length, but he knows absolutely 
nothing of importance...not even the exact 
number or whereabouts of the guards. 

11. Servants' Tower Room 


This is a mean, dirty chamber, barely rec 
ognizable as a human habitation. Its only 
furnishing is a pair of cots set against the 
north wall. Four three-pronged grappling 
hooks with their coiled ropes attached 
hang from an iron bracket set into the west 
wall. In the northeast comer is a stack of 
lumber. A spiral staircase leads to an unse 
cured trap door in the ceiling. 


This chamber is the servants' quarters for 
Oswald and Dewey. Under each man's cot is a 
bag of clothing and one or two meager 
personal possessions. The sack under Oswald's 
cor contains 4-80 cp and 2-12 sp. Each of the 
grappling hooks on the west wail have 50 feet 
of rope attached. 

The spiral staircase leads up to room 18 and 
down to room 7. 


12. Guards' Mess 


A long, wood-plank table, flanked by a pair 
of benches, occupies the center of this 
room. It is set with sixteen mugs, plates, 
and cutlery sets. A tired-looking, old hound 
is asleep under the table near the north 
entry. 


If it is dinner time (6 p.m. to 7 p.m.) and no 
alert has been sounded, eight of the tower 
guards are seated at the table, making inroads 
in the savory contents of a couple stew pots 
and three pitchers of ale. If there has been an 
intruder alert or the tower guards have been 
mobilized for any other reason, this mess is 
empty 

The old hound is (AC 7; MV 15 HD 1 + 1; 
hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-4; AL N). His name is Bo. 
Far too old to be much of a threat, Bo will, in 
most situations, simply watch the action. He is, 
however, devoted to Dewey, and attacks if the 
simple-minded serving man is threatened in 
his presence. Bo also fights in self-defense. 

13. Guards' Ale Room 


Four small, square tables, each with two 
chairs, surround the spiral staircase in the 
center of this chamber. There is a deck of 
playing cards on each table. A large keg 
with a padlocked spout is chained to an iron 
cradle set in the south wall. 


If no alarm has been sounded and the guards 
have not been mobilized, two guards can be 
found relaxing in this room. Though fully 
armored, they are not armed. The pad locked 
keg holds ale. Only the captain (16) has the 
key. 

The spiral staircase leads up to room 19 and 
down to room 6. 

14. Forge and Repair Shop 


A large iron forge, now cold, is built into 
the center of the south wall. There are sev 
eral work benches against the north wall. 
Each is covered with dozens of weapons- 
bows, spears, swords, and axes-all in 
varying states of disrepair. Two heavy 
leather blacksmith's aprons hang from 
hooks in the south wall nest to the forge. A 
large bellows, a shovel, and a pair of long 
iron stokers hang from spike set in the 
south wall east of the forge. 


East of the forge, at the base of the south 
wall, is a secret compartment hidden behind a 
loose stone. Tucked inside is a long case con 
taining an ancient composite short bow +1. 
Long hidden in its moisture-proof case of 


lacquered wood, the bow is the private project 
of a long-dead craftsman once employed at the 
tower. 

15. Captain's Tower Room 


Two leashed hunting dogs are asleep on 
corn mats near the south wall. As you enter, 
they awaken and growl. On a table near the 
east wall is a double cage containing a pair 
of hunting hawks. A spiral staircase 
dominates the center of the room. 


The dogs are (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2 + 2; hp 
13, 16; #AT 1; D 2-8; AL N). They have been 
trained not to attack humans, even if 
unleashed. However, their growling has a 
60% chance of alerting the occupant of room 
16 (if present). The hunting hawks are (AC 7; 
MV 24"; HD 1+1; hp 6, 7; #AT 3; Dl-4/1-4/1- 
6; AL N). Only the captain can handle the 
hawks, and if released, they attack all those in 
the room except for him. 

The spiral staircase leads up to room 20 and 
down to room 5. 

16. Captain's Chamber 

The door to this room is locked. 


A wide, comfortable-looking bed is set 
against the west wall. Beside it, resting on a 
tiled night table, is a small chest. A tall 
clothes cabinet stands against the east wall. 
Beside the cabinet is a small writing table 
with one chair. A decanter and one glass 
occupy the table. 


There is a 60% chance that the captain is in 
his room (day or night) unless the tower is mobi 
lized for battle. At night, the captain is AC 10 
(sleeping). Otherwise he a (AC 3; MV 9"; F5, 
hp 44; #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); AL LE). He wears 
plate mail armor under a gold-trimmed, gray 
tunic emblazoned with Edrin's black raven 
device. He carries 1-20 gp in a belt pouch 
together with a set of keys: one to his own room, 
one to the storeroom (9), and one to the padlock 
on the ale keg in the guards' mess (13). The cap 
tain investigates any disturbances in any 
general alarm or large-scale melee. 

The locked chest holds a sack of 200 pp and a 
small box that contains a gold necklace (100 gp). 
The back wall of the locked clothes cabinet is 
fitted out with a weapons rack containing a 
heavy crossbow and a quiver of 10 bolts, a lance, 
a spear, and a shield decorated with Edrin's black 
raven device. Four shirts and tunics also bearing 
the black raven hang from a dowel set high in the 
cabinet. At the cabinet's base is a small locked 
chest holding assorted papers and service orders. 
One paper empowers the captain to take 
command of the garrison at Capel Tower. The 


22 
















order is signed by Lord Edrin and sealed with 
the black raven symbol. 

The decanter on the writing table holds one 
pint of fine quality brandy. 

Capel Tower: Level III 

17. Assassin's Chamber 


A large bed rests against the east wall of this 
tower chamber. Against the south wall is a 
three-foot high, glass-doored cabinet. Atop 
the cabinet is a small chest. Against the north 
wall is a desk and chair. An open footlocker a 
positioned between the desk and bed. 


The door is bolted from inside: it is 40 hp. Any 
attempt to open it alerts the room's occu-pant, 
and actually opening the door by any means 
causes him to trigger two crossbow traps which 
fire at the doorway. The first two characters 
crossing the threshold are automati-cally hit; 
each takes 1-6 points of damage from the bolts 
and must save vs. poison to avoid the deadly 
effects of the poison smeared on the bolt rips. 
Failure to save results in the victim's death 
within 10 rounds unless remedial action 
{neutralize poison , slow poison ) is taken. 

The crossbow traps are located under the bed 
and angled up to the doorway. Two fine 
threads attached to the triggers lead out to the 
side of the bed so that anyone lying on it can 
trigger both crossbows by pulling the threads. 
The discovery of the threads should be a clue 
to the characters that the crossbows have been 
manually fired. 

The occupant of the chamber is currently 
invisible. He is Mendal Secord, an assassin 
and Lord Edrin's chief henchman in Andevar: 
(AC 1; MV 12"; A6; hp 31; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; SA poisoned weapons; AL LE; S 15, 

I 17, W 13, D 17, C 13, Ch 13). He wears 
bracers of defense AC 5, a cloak of protection 
+1, and a ring of invisibility (actually a ring of 
spell storing with five invisibility spells). 
Secord generally uses a poisoned dagger +2 
and a short sword. 

In this situation, Secord has become invisible 
in order to escape from the chamber. His 
primary objective, and one which overrides ail 
other concerns, is the assassination of Prince 
Edmund. In an instant, he has determined that 
the party of intruders is too formidable to deal 
with and that attempting to do so would 
needlessly delay his getting to Edmund. 
Secord does not interfere with the party's 
search and presumed looting of his chamber. 
Rather, he remains invisible and retires to the 
tower halls to observe the characters while 
they remain in the structure. When they leave, 
Secord tries to follow them unobserved until 
they reach Griffon Castle. 

When following the group, Secord assumes 


the guise of an old beggar, a ruse which he tries 
to keep up even if accosted and questioned by 
the party. If pressed, he uses his ring to escape 
again. See "Ending the Adventure" for more 
information on Mendal Secord. 

The glass-doored cabinet holds assorted 
chemicals and substances used for making 
poisons. There are two small vials in the 
cabinet that contain a poisonous resin for 
tipping weapons. 

The chest on top of the cabinet is locked. The 
key to the lock is strung on a cord around 
Secord's neck. Any attempt to open it without 
the key releases a charge of dust of sneezing 
and choking. Anyone within a 10-foot radius 
of the chest must save vs. poison or die 
immediately. Those who save are disabled by 
choking for 5-20 rounds. 

The interior of the chest is lined with black 
velveteen. Pillowed inside it is a large, white 
chamois bag, tied at the top with a purple 
silken cord. Inside the bag is a solid gold, 
ruby-encrusted scepter and a gold and silver 
ball, eight inches in diameter, that bears a 
crown image over a ruby-studded cross of 
Dunador. These items are the royal seal and 
scepter of Dunador. Although they are in one 
sense priceless, if sold on the black market, 
each item brings 6,000 gp. All the characters 
recognize the seal and scepter. 

Lifting a flap of the chest's velveteen lining 
raises a false bottom, revealing a small space 
in which the characters find a sack holding 

1,000 gp. 

The single drawer in the desk is locked. 
Inside, hidden behind a false panel at the rear, 
is a small metal box containing two bottles. 
One bottle holds a potion of levitation; the 
other holds a potion of gaseous form. The 
writing materials on top of the desk are 
ordinary. 

The open footlocker holds a cape similar to 
those commonly worn by local brigands, a 
leather satchel containing six throwing 
daggers, and a small wooden box containing 
10 poison-tipped crossbow bolts. 

18. Northwest Turret 


Two large traveling trunks sit against the 
north wall of this cahmber. A spiral stair 
case leads to a trapdoor above. 


One chest holds 10 dark hooded capes and 10 
studded leather jerkins similar to those 
affected by many of the local brigands. The 
other chest contains studded leather arm braces 
and 10 pairs of heavy boots, also typical of 
brigand garb. 

The spiral staircase leads down to room 11 
and up to the open parapet atop the tower. The 
trap door is not secured. 


19. Southwest Turret 


The southwestern are of this room's wall 
contains an iron rack holding a score of 
long, spiked poles with a y-shaped head at 
one end. A small fireplace is set into the 
west wall. Next to it is a small table with a 
flask and six clay cups resting on top. A 
spiral staircase leads to a trapdoor above. 


The poles are used to repel ladder assaults on 
the tower. The spiral staircase leads down to 
room 13 and up to the open parapet atop the 
tower. The trap door is not secured. 

20. Southeast Turret 


A huge cauldron hangs from a spit over a 
large firepit in the south wall. There is a 
large pile of dry cord wood on the floor on 
either side of the pit. A pair of deep, iron 
ladies rest against one of the wood piles 
Spaced evenly along the walls of the cham 
ber are eight wide barrels. A spiral staircase 
leads to a trap door above. 


The barrels contain flammable oil which, 
when heated in the cauldron, is used for 
defense. The boiling oil is dispensed by 
means of the ladies into the dozens of wood- 
handled iron buckets which hang from hooks 
in the walls of the parapets. The tower's 
defenders then hurl the contents of the 
buckets at those trying to scale the walls. 

As the parry moves north to the River Laine, 
they reach a messy limestone span known to 
the locals as Barbarian's Bridge. A sign 
proclaiming this fact to one and all is nailed to 
an elm tree near the southern entrance to the 
span. The bridge is 200 feet long and 15 feet 
wide. Its three stone piles are set deep in the 
river bed and linked by carefully joined stone 
arches capable of bearing even the heaviest 
traffic. Below the bridge surface, the white 
water of the Laine, sometimes as much as 30 
feet deep tears angrily at the impervious 
stone. 

Barbarian's Bridge 

As the group begins to cross the bridge, they 
are surprised by the appearance from a nearby 
copse of trees of a dark rider on a black horse. 
He is accompanied by four other riders 
wearing dark brown cloaks. The dark rider is 
Kirkroy, the Duke of Andevar's champion 
(AC 3; MV 9718"; F6; hp 48; #AT 1; D 2-9 
{long sword +1), 3-8 {lance +1); AL LE). He 
wears a plain, black tunic over splint armor 
and carries a small jousting shield. At his belt 
is a small pouch containing 3-60 gp and a jew 
elled dagger worth 50 gp. Around his neck he 
wears a gold medallion engraved with Aimar's 


23 












golden lion insignia (50 gp). 

Kirkroy rides a medium war horse (AC 7; 
MV 18"; HD 2 + 2; hp 17; #AT 3;D 1-6/1-6/ 
1-3; S L; AL N). 

Kirkroy's companions are (AC 4; MV 12"1 
18"; F4; hp 24, 26. 29, 34; #AT 1; D 2-5 
(heavy crossbow), 1-6 (short sword); AL LE). 
The heavy crossbows can be fired only once 
every two rounds. They ride medium horses 
(AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2 + 2; hp 12, 13, 14, 16; 
#AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-3; AL N). Beneath their 
brown capes, these riders wear blue tunics 
emblazoned with Aimar's golden lion device 
over fine chainmail. 

Kirkroy and his men have been placed at the 
bridge by the Duke in order to cover Aimar's 
move to his new base of operations ar Griffon 
Castle. 

As soon as the party begins to cross the 
bridge. Kirkroy rides out of the woods and 
gallops up to the center span where he awaits 
the party. Upon meeting the characters on the 
bridge, he tells them that it is impossible for 
them to cross. He does not tell them why. If 
they insist on trying to cross, Kirkroy chal 
lenges one of the party's fighters to single 
combat with horse and lance. He proposes that 
the winner and his parry may proceed as they 
will; the loser must withdraw. 

Naturally, Kirkroy and his men have no 
intention of honoring any such agreement. His 
men attack as soon as the joust is over, 
regardless of the result. If the characters do not 
agree to Kirkroy's terms or leave, he and his 
men attack immediately. 

Running the Joust 

* Only combatants are allowed on the bridge. 

* Only one attack is allowed for each mounted 
pass. Make a normal initiative roll to hit 
first. 

* On a roll of a natural 20 to hit, an opponent 
must save vs. poison or be knocked off his 
or her mount. 

* A mounted combatant has a + 2 chance to hit 
an opponent on foot. 

* A mounted opponent has a + 2 chance to hit 
a mounted opponent's horse with sword, 
mace, flail, or other small weapon. 

* On a roll of a natural 1 to hit, a combatant's 
lance breaks on impact. The fighter may get 
another lance if his seconds provide them at 
their end of the bridge. 

* A mounted combatant using a sword, mace, 
flail, or other small weapon can't hit a 
mounted combatant using a lance. 

* Combat continues, mounted or on foot, until 
a clear winner emerges. 

* You must establish statistics for the player 
character's horse. 

Ultimately, Kirkroy and his men neither give 
nor accept a quarter. If captured through enter 
prising means, they refuse to give information 
upon pain of death. An ESP spell, however, 
reveals that the prince is at Griffon Castle. 


A well-trodden path runs west along the River 
Laine from the north side of the bridge. 
Clearly visible in the mud of the track are the 
recent imprints of horse hooves. Two miles 
from the bridge, the path reaches a thatch- 
roofed cottage perched along a low bank 
beside the Laine. The splintered wreck of a 
small boat is tied up to a pier near the front of 
the cottage. The front door of the dwelling is 
closed, but not locked. 

The interior of the dwelling is a single 30-foot 
by 30-foot room. Its air is thick with ani-mal 
smells, and there are dozens of furs and skins 
nailed to the walls or strewn about the floor as 
rugs. In places, these have been tom from their 
hooks or kicked up from the floor as if in a 
scuffle. Many of them have been torn or 
slashed. In one comer of the cottage are the 
masked remains of a bed and a chest. Torn 
clothing and broken tools and cooking uten 
sils are scattered everywhere in a way that sug 
gests deliberate vandalism. 

Except for Eli's hidden treasure trove of 75 gp 
(hidden in a box in a cubbyhole under one of 
the rafters in the north wall), nothing in the 
cottage, including the many animal pelts, has 
escaped damage. A careful inspection of the 
floor reveals a pool of congealed blood to the 
right of the door. Of Eli, however, there is no 
trace. 

The solution to this riddle is, of course, that 
Eli was an eyewitness to the passage of the 
duke and his prisoner along the path from 
Barbarian's Bridge toward Griffon Castle. Not 
wishing to leave any embarrassing clues 
behind, Aimar ordered Kirkroy to take a squad 
of men to the cottage and dispense with the old 
hunter in such a way as to make the murder 
look like the work of brigands. After savagely 
attacking the aged Eli and ravaging the 
cottage, Kirkroy and his men left their vic 
tim for dead and rode on to take up their guard 
at the bridge. But Kirkroy did not count on 
Eli's good standing with the forest community. 
Once the attackers left, wood spirits arrived at 
the cottage, took care of Eli's wounds, and 
carried him off to heal in a secret forest glen 
far north of the river. 

One of the sprites, a bold youngster named 
Toughnut. stayed near the cottage to keep an 
eve on the place. This tiny sprite is (AC 6; MV 
9718"; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-3 (bow), 1-4 
(sword); S 2'; AL NG). Toughnut, currently 
invisible, is now hiding just east of the cot 
tage's front door. 

Using his abilities, Toughnut determines the 
characters' alignments as soon as they arrive, 
but he will still be unsure of why they are in 
the cottage, and so, will bide his time. If Eli's 
treasure is taken, Toughnut fires a warning 
arrow dangerously close to the head of 
whomever has plundered the trove. Toughnut 
then imitates Eli's booming voice, saying, 


"Thieves and robbers! Have you no shame 
that you would steal the few pathetic coins of a 
poor old man!" 

If the characters take the hint and give up 
Eli's treasure, Toughnut is better disposed 
toward them. If they refuse to give up the 
treasure, he makes its surrender a condition 
for giving the characters any information. 
After inquiring as to their purpose, the sprite, 
using his natural voice, explains Eli's fate and 
gives the following information: 


"The one you seek is gone. Only a few days 
ago, the young prince was taken west by 
the "golden lion." the one called Aimar. 
Eli knew of this. He saw. He told us that 
they could only be going to a place that he 
called 'the Griffon.' Eli was troubled by 
this, but the black ones came before he 
could do aught but tell us of his worry. We 
know nothing of the 'Griffon'; we do not 
travel much. But this we can tell you just as 
it was told us bv Eli. It is in the west, this 
place. Down the river over many of your 
miles. The waters of this river flow west. 
Follow them by the river's side, if you will. 
Or, if you be sailors, there is another way. 
Hidden in the trees by the river is another 
boat. Take it and be on your way. This I 
think that Eli would want." 


So saying, the sprite retires to the woods. 
The other boat is hidden in the brush, 100 
feet west of the cottage. It is a flat bottom 
scow. 18 feet long and 8 feet wide, and has a 
sail and a rudder. Even if the player characters 
are nor accomplished sailors, the river's cur 
rent carries them to Griffon Castle. They only 
have to steer with the rudder and use the oars 
to slow their vessel. The boat is roomy enough 
for the party and all their gear, but their horses 
must be tethered and left by the river. If the 
players decide to float down the river, the voy 
age is without incident. 

If the party takes the north riverside track, 
make the usual wandering monster checks. 


24 










Griffon Castle is a secret stronghold set back 
about 50 feet from the north bank of the River 
Laine and surrounded by a dense wood. Few 
even know that it still exists. Years ago, the 
Duke took the isolated castle from a robber 
baron who refused to swear fealty and mend 
his ways. Though the castle was ruined in the 
fighting, Aimar has, over the years (and espe 
cially since forming his alliance with Edrin), 
labored patiently and in secret to pur it back 
into repair. Since so few are aware of Aimar's 
secret project, the site makes an ideal hiding 
place for the captured prince. 

Apart from the retainers, servants, sundry 
"pets," and the duke, the castle is garrisoned 
by 20 men-at-arms. All these human fighters 
wear scale mail armor and black-plumed 
helms. Each is equipped with a crossbow, a 
long sword, and a shield. When using their 
crossbows they are AC 5. None of this equip 
ment bears any insignia. The Griffon Castle 
Roster indicates the guards who are presently 
in the castle. 

Position these men as follows: at any time, 
day or night, there are 16 guards on duty; four 
others are asleep in barracks room 8. Seven of the 
16 guards on duty are stationed in the towers, 
one guard atop each of the seven open-air tur 
rets. Each open turret is equipped with a heavy 
crossbow (1 shot/2 rounds, D 2-5) that hangs 
from a hook driven into one of the turret's 
merlons. The other nine guards are positioned as 
indicated in the following room descriptions. 

Currently the entire garrison is on alert; the 
discovery of any intrusion causes the mobiliza 
tion of the captain and all the guards except 
those in room 20. 


Class/Level 

AL 

Gear 

F2 

LN 

20 sp, dagger 

F3 

LE 

10 gp, ring (1 gp) 

F4 

LE 

6 pp, 11 sp 

FI 

LN 

1 gp, 4 sp 

F2 

LN 

2 gp, dagger 

F5 

LE 

40 sp, 3 gp 

F4 

LN 

22 sp, 3 ep 

F3 

LN 

50 sp 

F2 

LN 

10 ep, ring (4 sp) 

F3 

LN 

5 gp 

F3 

LE 

3 rubies (40 gp) 

F4 

LN 

17 sp, 30 cp 

F3 

LN 

10 gp 

F4 

LN 

5 sp 

F2 

LE 

5 cp, dagger 

F3 

LN 

10 sp 

F2 

LN 

11 gP 

F4 

LE 

15 gp 

F2 

LN 

9 cp 

F3 

LN 

30 sp, 10 gp 


Entry to Griffon Castle 

The party can enter the castle in two ways: 

1. By finding the traitor's gate (next to room 
13) after a covert search of the outside wall. 
Such a search is not possible in daylight in 
view of the towers above. 

2. By an open (and very foolhardy) attempt to 
assault the walls or main gates. In the event of an 
open attempt, mobilize all the occupants of 
Griffon Castle and organize an effective defense. 
The tops of seven of the eight towers are 
equipped with bells for use in sounding an 
alarm. 

Griffon Castle: Ground Level 

1. Southwest Gatehouse 

As befits a border stronghold. Griffon Castle 
is blessed with an extremely strong gate, com 
plete with portcullis. The latter is always down, 
and no entry is permitted. A winch for raising 
the portcullis is located in gatehouse 1. The 
room is bare except for a barrel of water and 
twelve drinking mugs hanging from hooks 
driven into the wall beside it. The walls are 
breached here and there by narrow arrow slits. 

2. Southeast Gatehouse 

There a a guard on duty in gatehouse 2. 
Thanks to the arrow slits in the gatehouse, he has 
an excellent view of the exterior of the gate. The 
guardsman is charged under penalty of death 
with immediately reporting to the captain in 
room 15 any attempt to approach the gate. He is 
extremely vigilant. Located in this room is a 
release mechanism for the castle's outer door. 


Combat Bonus 

AC 

hp 

+1 with sword 

5/6 

14 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

21 


5/6 

39 


5/6 

8 


5/6 

12 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

42 


5/6 

29 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

25 


5/6 

13 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

29 

+1 with sword 

5/6 

22 


5/6 

22 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

24 


5/6 

29 


5/6 

12 


5/6 

17 


5/6 

14 

+1 with X-bow 

5/6 

33 

+1 with sword 

5/6 

15 


5/6 

24 


3. Tower Chamber 


A spiral staircase near the south wall leads 
to another chamber above. There are two 
large barrels near the east wall. Beside the 
door is a weapons rack holding four spears. 


There is one guard on duty in this room. The 
barrels hold fresh water, the spiral stairs lead 
to room 17. 

4. Tower Chamber 


A cask rests on a stained plank table near 
the west wall. A spiral stairccase near the 
south wall leads to an upper chamber. 


One guard is stationed in this room. The case 
contains mead. The spiral stairs lead to room 19. 

5. Great Hall 


There is an immense fireplace with a lime 
stone mantle set into the west wall. A large 
tapestry hangs over the fireplace. The hang 
ings depict an odd sort of creature, part bird 
and part animal. A long, heavy oak table 
flanked by two benches occupies the center 
of the room. Large carved and padded chairs 
are placed at the head and foot of the table. 
A second smaller tapestry with a golden lion 
boldly woven into its background of blue 
flowers hangs from the east wall. 


Set into the wall behind the tapestry is a 
three-foot by two-foot wooden panel. The 
panel can be opened by pushing a stone 
pressure plate in the floor just below it. 

A recess behind the panel holds a locked 
chest, the key to which hangs on a silken cord 
around Aimar's neck. Any attempt to open the 
chest without the key causes a toxic gas to be 
released; those within 10 feet must save vs. 
breath weapon or fall unconscious for 3 turns. 
The chest contains 20 gold plates, 20 gold 
goblets, and 20 gold cutlery sets worth a total 
of 1,000 gp. 

6. Kitchen 


The kitchen is dominated by a big brick 
and tile oven set into the north wall. There 
is a rude wooden bin on either side of the 
stove. Shelves full of pots, pans, and sealed 
crocks line the other walls. Dried vegeta 
bles and herbs hang from the rafters. The 
air is heavy with the smell of sage. 


One bin is full of onions; the other contains 
a collection of tuberous vegetables. The crocks 
contain a variety of pickled meats, fruits, and 
vegetables. 


Griffon Castle Roster 


25 












7. Storeroom 


Piled high against the wall of this circular 
chamber are hundreds of small mealy 
bags. A dozen slabs of slated mutton hang 
from hooks in the ceiling. Three barrels 
occupy the center of the room. The room is 
roofed, floored, and panelled with tightly- 
joined walnut boards. 


The mealy bags contain flour and grain. 
One barrel contains apples, one contains salt 
port, and the other holds iron rations. 

8. Barracks 


Twenty narrow beds line the walls of this 
hut. Quarrel quivers hang on books behind 
each bed. 


Unless the alarm has been sounded, there are 
four guards asleep in this hut In this situation, 
guards are AC 10 and require 1 round to get 
their swords. 

Under each bed is an oaken footlocker 
containing personal items such as spare boots, 
breeches, flasks of mead, and spare parts for 
crossbows (string, triggers, bolt heads, etc.). 
Each quiver on the wall holds 2-40 quarrels 
(light). 

9. Tower Chamber 


A spiral staircase near the north wall of 
this chamber leads to an upper level. 
Beside the staircase, set against the north 
wall, is a tall oaken cabinet. There are two 
big bar-rels near the west wall. 


Unless the alarm has been sounded, there is 
one guard stationed in this room. The barrels 
hold fresh water. The locked cabinet contains 
a fine suit of chain mail (suitable for a human 
or half elf), a lance, a broadsword, and a 
shield. The spiral stairs lead to room 22. 

10. Northwest Gatehouse 

The north gate, like its twin to the south, is 
quite strong, having its own portcullis in addi 
tion to the gate itself. The former is always 
down, and no entry is permitted here, either. 
There is a guard on duty in gatehouse 10. 
Thanks to the arrow slits in its walls, he has an 
excellent view of the exterior of the gate. Like 
the guardsman at the south gate, he is charged 
under penalty of death with immediately 
reporting to the captain in room 15 any 
attempt to approach the gate. He, like his fel 
low at the south gate, is extremely vigilant. 
Located in this room is a door release mecha 
nism for the castle's outer door. 


11. Northeeast Gatehouse 

Gatehouse 11 is empty except for the winch 
user to raise the portcullis. 

12. Tower Chamber 


Spiral stairs near the north wall lead to a 
chamber above. A tall oaken cabinet 
stands against the east wall. 


Unless the alarm has been sounded, there is 
one guard on duty here. The cabinet is locked. 
It holds a weapons rack with brackets for 20 
heavy crossbows. Seven of the weapons are 
missing. At the bottom of the cabinet are four 
open wooden boxes filled with heavy crossbow 
bolts. 

The spiral stairs lead to room 24. 

13. Stables and Traitor's Gate 


Nine of the ten narrow stalls against the 
east wall are occupied by horses. The fifth 
stall from the north is vacant. A dozen big 
feed bags are stacked by the west wall. A 
pair of water buckets hang from the gate 
post by each stall. 


The nine horses are light war horses. A care 
ful examination of the fifth stall reveals a hid 
den door set into its east wall. Just to the left of 
the door, one of the vertical boards pro-trudes 
slightly from the others in the stall's wall. 
Pulling the board so that it swings our on a 
spring-fed hinge opens the door. Characters 
have the normal chance of locating this door. 
Dwarves, elves, half elves, gnomes, and 
thieves gain an extra +1 if they are expressly 
looking for a secret door. 

Behind the hidden door is a narrow passage 
running eastward four feet to a stone wall. In 
the wall is the outline of another door. This 
door is four feet high and three feet wide and 
has an iron ring handle. Turning the ring causes 
the door to open inward, giving access to the 
exterior of the castle. 

14. Stables 


Ten narrow stalls on the east wall hold 10 
horses. There are two barrels and a stack of 
30 to 40 feed bags against the west wall. 
Two large chests occupy the northwest cor 
ner of the stable 


One chest contains 20 light horse saddles. 
The other contains 40 different bridles and 
reins. All 10 horses are light war hoses. 


15. Captain's Office 


A wide, but rather short, bed occupies the 
northeast comer of this chamber. At the 
foot of the bed is a big, iron-bound chest. 
Flush against the western part of the south 
wall is a plain writing desk. There is a trap 
door with a heavy iron ring visible in the 
floor in the southeast corner of the cham 
ber. 


If no alarm has been sounded, there is a 
70% chance that the captain and one guard 
are in the room. If they are not present when 
the characters enter, roll ld6 once every 10 
rounds while the party is in the room. On a 
roll of 1-3, the captain and one guard return. 

The captain of the guard is a nasty dwarf 
named Dram: AC 3. MV 9"; F6; hp 47; #AT 
1; D 4-11 (axe 1-8 +3); saves at +1; AL LE. 
Dram wears plate armor and wields a two- 
handed axe. Hanging- from his belt are a dag 
ger, an iron ring containing a set of keys to 
rooms 16 and 17 and the cabinet in room 12, 
and a pouch containing 10 gp. 

The locked chest holds 300 gp and the cap 
tain's personal belongings. 

Among the papers strewn across the desk is a 
pay roster for the 20 men-at-arms guarding 
the castle. A single unlocked drawer in the 
desk contains iron rations, an empty wineskin, 
and a flask of brandy. At the back of the 
drawer is a leather sack holding two gold neck 
braces (30 gp each) and a silver cross of Duna- 
dor (20 sp). These items are loot taken from 
the prisoners in the dungeon below. 

The trap door lets onto a flight of steep 
stairs leading to the dungeon. A single door at 
the foot of the stairs is bolted from the out 
side. Behind the door, a 20-foot by 20-foot 
cell contains the bodies of four dead humans 
clad in the tattered remnants of pilgrim's 
robes. One of the men seems to have died as a 
result of one or more wounds. The others have 
died of thirst. The four were the Prince's com 
panions on his pilgrimage. 

16. Armory (door locked) 


This semicircular chamber houses an excel 
lent armory. Weapons racks set in the walls 
hold scores of spears, lances, pikes, 
guisarmes, and halberds. There are two 
large chests against the east wall, and a bar 
rel set on either side of the door. 


The wall racks hold 40 of each type of 
weapon. One chest holds 20 long bows, the 
other holds 500 arrows. The barrels hold poor 
quality inflammable oil. 


26 
















Griffon Castle: Upper Level 

Stairway access to this upper level is 
through the four round tower chambers. Spi 
ral stairways from ground level chambers lead 
to open landings in the upper tower cham 
bers. On the second level, the spiral stairs in 
22, 19, and 17 continue upward, ending in 
trap doors in the ceilings that lead to parapets 
on the turrets above. Staircases in 18, 20, 23, 
and 25 also end in trap doors in the ceiling 
which give out on the wall parapets. 

Undisguised movement along the open-air 
parapets, day or night, is certain to attract the 
attention of the guards on top of the seven 
turrets. At night, crouching low behind the 
merlons and moving as quietly as possible 
gives the characters a 70% chance of moving 
undetected from one tower to another. 
(Thieves have a 95% chance of accomplishing 
this feat.) If any character's movements are 
detected by a guard, there is a 50% chance 
that the guard sounds the alann bell at his sta 
tion. A percentage roll of 51 or higher means 
that the guard assumes the sound was insig 
nificant and ignores it. 

As previously noted, a general alarm mobi 
lizes all castle occupants in an organized 
search for the intruders. (See encounter 26 for 
the special role of the griffon.) 

17. Tower Chamber (Guardhouse) 


A spiral staircase near the south wall leads 
to a trap door in the ceiling. A table sur 
rounded by four chairs occupies the center 
of the room. There is a small cask and four 
stoneware mugs on the table. Twenty 
spiked poles with y-shaped heads at one 
end are set in racks fixed to the walls. The 
east wall contains a fireplace of rough 
fieldstone. 


This chamber is a way station for the guards 
mounting wall patrols. The cask holds a few 
quarts of cheap mead. The staircase leads 
down to room 3 and up to the parapet atop 
the turret. 

18. Aimar's Sanctuary 

The door to this room is locked. 


The walls of this well-appointed chamber 
are decorated with fine tapestries depicting 
heroic battles waged by noble knights 
against horn-helmed barbarians. The 
golden lion coat-of-arms is displayed 
prominently in all the hangings. In the 
middle of the west wall, there is an elabo 
rate fireplace and hearth topped by a finely 
dressed stone mantle. An armchair, uphol 
stered in bottle-green cut velvet place 


before the fire. An ornately-carved walnut 
desk and chair are positioned against the 
north wall. Against the east wall is a small 
glass-doored walnut bookcase. 


Atop the mantle are a pair of black candles 
in gold candlesticks (40 gp each). An ornate 
set of fireplace tools stand in a small bin north 
of the hearth. The tool's handles are made of 
finely chased silver filigree (200 sp total). 

The desk drawer holds writing parchment 
and a gold lion seal for marking letters and 
documents. Two quill pens and an ink well are 
placed on top of the desk. 

The bookcase holds books on a variety of 
sorcerous subjects. Except for one plain book 
with no markings that is larger than the oth 
ers, the books in the two-tiered bookcase are 
quite mundane. This one unusual book is 
located at the far right side of the top shelf. It 
is a librum of gainful conjurations. Because of 
his evil alignment, Aimar has never been able 
to read it. 

Any magic user or illusionist of neutral 
alignment who reads the librum gains enough 
experience points to put him at the midpoint 
of the next higher level. A complete reading 
of the book requires a character's undivided 
attention for one full week. Any non-neutral 
magic user or illusionist reading even one line 
of the book sustains 5-20 points of damage 
and falls unconscious for the same number of 
turns. Any magic-using victims of the book 
must seek a cleric to atone in order to regain 
the ability to progress in experience. Without 
such atonement, the character gains no fur 
ther experience points. Any non-magic user 
who peruses the book must save vs. spells to 
avoid insanity. Insane characters must receive 
a remove curse spell and rest for one month 
unless a cleric heals them. 

The Secret Room 

Located in the southern part of the room, 
behind a tapestry near the east wall, is a hid 
den door. Sheathed in painted plaster, it can 
hardly be distinguished from the stonework in 
the walls. The door is opened by pressing a 
pressure plate in the floor next to it. Behind 
the hidden door is a three-sided recess occu 
pied by a large, locked chest containing 2,000 
gp, 5,000 sp, and 500 pp. Also inside the 
chest is a small wooden box containing a neck 
lace set with a single sparkling gem - a luck- 
stone. It gives its wearer +1 on saving throws 
and throws to avoid traps and pitfalls; how 
ever, the "luck" doesn't apply to hit and dam 
age rolls. The stone does not work for 
characters of evil alignment. 

The librum, the luckstone, and the treasure 
within this secret room were all wrested from 
the previous lord of Griffon Castle. 


19. Tower Chamber 


A spiral staircase near the southern wall 
leads to a trap door in the ceiling. The 
western part of the chamber is taken up by 
a fire pit, over which hangs an iron caul 
dron. There are four barrels grouped in the 
northeast comer. 


The cauldron is used to boil the oil con 
tained in the barrels. The hot oil is then 
dumped down the castle's battlements onto 
the heads of its attackers. 

The spiral staircase leads down to room 4 
and up to the parapet atop the turret. 

20. West Tower Antechamber 


A staircase leads to a trap door in the ceil 
ing of the western part of this semicircular 
chamber. Set in the east wall of the cham 
ber is a heavy door, flanked on either side 
by a guard in scale mail, equipped with a 
sword and shield. 


The pair of guards is assigned to secure the 
prisoner in room 21. They have strict orders 
not to leave their posts for any reason. If a 
melee breaks out, one of the guards tries to 
get up the stair to sound the alarm bell on the 
open parapets of the turret. 

21. Prison Chamber 

This chamber door is bolted from outside. 


A figure dressed in a filthy pilgrim's robe 
lies on a small cot in the northeast comer of 
this sparsely-furnished chamber. There is a 
fireplace in the middle of the east wall. A 
simple writing desk and chair occupy the 
south wall. 


The reclining figure is Prince Edmund. 
Gaunt and haggard from his recent ordeal, 
the royal heir is barely conscious. The party 
can confirm the prince's identity by compar 
ing his features to those in the portrait of him 
that they carry. A cure light wounds spell or an 
application of healing potion or ointment gets 
the prince on his feet, but he won't be able to 
fight for some days. He is, however, able to 
keep up with the group during travel. The 
prince is AC 10; MV 9"; F2; hp 1(13); no 
weapons, AL LG. When discovered, Edmund 
has only 1 hp remaining. 

As soon as he is on his feet and aware of his 
surroundings, the prince expresses the follow 
ing concerns and comments in whatever order 
seems appropriate: 


27 











































"Who are you! Why are you here! Were 
you sent by my father!" 

"Where are my loyal comrades! Are they 
safe! Please tell me. I bid you." 

"But why was I kidnapped! And why 
brought here!" 

"The Royal Council must know of what has 
happened here. Aimar is a traitor; of that 
there is no doubt. But the poison goes 
further. I am sure. Perhaps all the way to 
my Uncle Edrin, who has long coveted the 
throne." 

"Stand a moment, friends. Let me get my 
legs under me. It has been such a strange 
time, alone here in the dark. And always 
that screeching in my ear. Like some great 
bird trying to speak its hate of men. A 
dream, perhaps, but even now my head is 
filled with that terrible sound." 


Edmund's single burning desire, at the 
moment, is to return to Dunthrane as soon as 
possible. But, being young, inexperienced, and 
in a weakened state, he places his fate entirely 
in the hands of the characters, deferring to 
their decisions as to strategy and tactics. If his 
opinion is solicited, Edmund sides with 
characters who are of good alignment. 

22. Tower Chamber 


A spiral staircase near the northern wall of 
this room leads to a trap door in the ceiling. 
The south and east walls are lined with 
weapons racks containing spiked poles. A 
fireplace is set into the west wall. 


The stairs lead down to room 9 and up to the 
parapet atop the turret. 

23. Aimar's Bedroom (door locked) 


A large four poster bed takes up the entire 
southeast corner of the room. A fireplace is 
set into the middle of the east wall. Above 
the fireplace are shelves containing a lamp, 
an hourglass, a set of tongs, and an inverted 
funnel. In the southeast corner stands a tall 
walnut wall cabinet. Fine tapestries adorn 
all of the chamber's walls. 


Beneath the bed is a footlocker filled with 
boors, spurs, leg braces and leggings. Some 
where in this tangle of leather goods is a 
leather sack containing a pair of bracers of 
defense AC6. 

The locked wall cabinet holds a dozen pair of 
silk and velvet pantaloons with matching 
doublers and a pair of royal blue tunics. The 


tunics are embroidered with the golden lion 
device. A small chest at the bottom of the 
cabinet contains 100 gp, 200 sp, and a rolled- 
up parchment encircled by a black ribbon. The 
parchment is a letter from Lord Edrin to the 
Duke of Andevar exhorting the latter to "deal 
with our friend, the pilgrim." This is a coded 
reference to the kidnapping and killing of 
Prince Edmund. 

Hidden in the bottom hem of the base of the 
tapestry on the south wall is a 14-inch metal 
tube. Inside the tube is a w and of magic 
missiles with 12 charges. This item functions 
up to twice per round to deliver a 2-5 hp mis 
sile. Each missile needs three segments to fire 
and uses one charge. 

24. Tower Chamber 


Four narrow beds crowd the east wall of 
this room. A spouted barrel rests against 
the north wall. 


There are no spiral stairs in this room, just a 
hole leading down to the stairway below. At 
any one rime, one to four servants (AC 10, MV 
9"; hp 6 each; #AT nil; AL N) are asleep here. 
Greatly fearing the duke's wrath, the servants 
will do nothing to help the party. If threat 
ened, they will feign ignorance about the cas 
tle and all its occupants. 

Beneath the beds, the servants have hidden 
their few paltry possessions (1-20 cp per ser 
vant). 

25. East Tower Antechamber 


A staircase near the eastern wall of this 
semicircular room leads to a trap door in 
the ceiling. The room, itself, is bare. A 
rather large, brutish-looking individual 
stands before a carved door in the west 
wall. 


The room's occupant is Aimar's bodyguard, a 
huge half-ore named Lom (AC3; MV9"; F6; hp 
46; #AT 1; Dl-10 (two-handed sword); S M; AL 
LE). Lom wears plate armor and a spiked helm. 
Stuck in his belt are a dagger and a footman's 
flail. Around his neck is a cord from which is sus 
pended a pouch holding 1-10 pp and 2-20 gp. 
Lom fights to the death to defend Aimar. 

Any disturbances in this room attracts the 
attention of Aimar, who emerges from room 
21, within three rounds of hearing the sound of 
fighting. 


26. Aimar's Quarters 


A large fireplace and mantle dominate the 
west wall of this chamber. There are three 
small statuettes atop the mantle. A low 
table, flanked by a pair of carved, leather- 
upholstered chairs, is positioned in front of 
the fire. A crystal decanter filled with an 
amber liquid and two crystal goblets are 
arranged on the table. Against the north 
wall is a large bed covered in heavy furs. A 
table topped by a small chest sits against the 
south wall. In the southwest corner of the 
room, two horizontal bars hang from chains 
bolted to the ceiling. 


If Aimar did not enter the melee in room 25, he 
is in this room. The Duke of Andevar is a 
fighter/magic user (AC1; MV 12"; F/MU 6/5; 
hp 40; #AT 1; D 3-10(sword + 2); AL LE; S 15, 
1 17, W 13, D 16, C 16, Ch 14). He wears a 
black tunic embroidered with the golden lion 
device, bracers of defense AC 5, and a ring of 
protection +1 (saves at +1). His Dexterity gives 
his two pluses on his armor class. In this 
situation. Aimar may use magic missile (twice), 
shocking grasp, ray of enfeeblement, and, in 
desperation, a fireball. If Aimar uses the fireball 
while in room 25, he retreats to room 21, (or to 
the open parapets) and launches the 5d6 fireball 
into room 25. Aimar will not use the fireball if 
him or his companion, Riannon, are uninjured. 
Aimar has two pet blood hawks who follow 
him to the attack. The blood hawks are (AC 1; 
MV 12724"; HD 1+1; hp 7,7; #AT 3; D 1-4/1- 
4/1-6. AL N). The horizontal bars in room 26 
are perches for these birds. 

As suggested by the two goblets, another 
person also occupies Aimar's quarters - his 
mistress, Riannon. A half-elf magic user/thief, 
Riannon is (AC 7; MV 12"; MU/T 3/4; hp 17; 
#AT 2; D 2-512-5 (dagger +1); AL CE). On a 
successful backstab, Riannon does double 
damage. She wears studded leather armor. 
Riannon has the use of three memorized spells: 
sleep, feather fall, and invisibility. 

Though quite fond of the duke's wealth and 
power, beautiful Riannon is too much the 
adventuress to risk her life for Aimar. Her main 
goal is survival, and if Aimar is beaten and she 
is captured, she will quickly surrender and offer 
to join the party. In this situation. Riannon will 
admit to being a thief, but will conceal her 
magic-user skills. She may even attempt to 
persuade the party that Aimar held her against 
her wishes, though Prince Edmund will 
maintain just the opposite. If the characters try 
to win Riannon's trust, her manner will soften 
and she will start to behave in a friendly 
manner, even going so far as to show them 
Aimar's treasure room (18). 


29 














However, once outside the east tower cham 
ber, Riannon will use a shrill, birdlike call to 
summon the griffon from on top of the north 
east tower (24). To remove herself from the 
action once the griffon arrives, she uses 
feather fall from the wall, turns invisible and 
flees to the nearby woods to watch the fun. 
Her hope is, of course, that if the griffon 
destroys the party then she can return and 
make off with all of Aimar's treasure. If the 
situation becomes life-threatening to Rian 
non, she will abandon this plan and quit the 
area entirely. 

The chest on the table in room 26 holds 
1,000 gp worth of precious gems and jewelry, 
a gift from Aimar to Riannon. The three stat 
uettes on the mantle are lions; one is gold and 
worth 100 gp; one is silver and worth 100 sp; 
the third is bronze. The bronze lion is hollow 
and contains a small leather pouch inside of 
which the characters will find a ruby worth 

200 gp. 

The wall cabinet contains a suit of leather 
armor, a cloak and a bag holding a set of 
thieves' tools. On the floor of the cabinet, 
hidden under an old tunic is Riannon's spell 
book. 

The Griffon 

If the griffon (AC 3; MV 12730 "; HD 7; 
hp 44; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/2-16; S L; AL N) 
does not attack at Riannon's summons, it is 
attracted by the sound and smell of the char 
acters' horses as they try to leave the castle, 
and attacks at that time. The events inside the 
castle having disrupted the griffon's regular 
feeding schedule, the beast is now hungry 
enough to do its own hunting. It attacks with 
determination in an effort to get at the party's 
horses, but prefers a riderless mount at all 
times. If it can isolate a horse, it breaks off its 
attack and starts to feast; if interrupted in its 
feast, it fights to the death. If the characters 
don't use horses to leave the castle and it is 
not summoned by Riannon, the griffon does 
not appear. 


With the defeat of Aimar and the freeing of 
Prince Edmund, the evil designs of the Duke 
of Andevar have been thwarted. It remains, 
however, for the party to make its way safely 
back to Dunthrane. They may retrace the way 
they came through Capel Tower and 
Montinelle, or they may ride south from 
Griffon Castle and then through Noren's 
Wood. In either case, they must still reckon 
with the forces of Lord Edrin. 

Lord Edrin's Forces 

Lord Edrin's remaining forces include two 
groups of horsemen, one group of infantry, 
and the assassin, Mendal Secord. By this time, 
Lord Edrin, having had no news of the fate of 
the prince, has sent most of his own men to 
Andevar to make sure chat Edmund does not 
turn up again. 

Ironically, as regent of Dunador, Edrin has 
also been forced to send some of his troops to 
restore and guard Fontenmere Abbey, which 
was so recently sacked by a group of his men 
disguised as brigands. Edrin's forces in 
Andevar include: 

Group 1 

8 horsemen: AC 6; MV 12724"; F3; hp 20 

each; #AT 1; D 1-6 with lance; AL LN 

1 captain: AC 4; MV 12724"; F4 ; hp 32; #AT 
1; D 1-8 with sword; AL LE 

9 light horses: AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 15 

each; #AT 0; AL N 

All the horsemen wear gray tunics 
emblazoned with the black raven device. The 
troopers wear scale armor, but have no shields. 
They carry swords at their sides. Each also 
carries 1-20 sp. The captain wears chain armor 
under a gold-trimmed gray tunic. He carries a 
shield, a sword, and 2-40 gp. 

The party encounters this group patrolling the 
road from the Three Leathers Inn through 
Montinelle to Capel Tower. They know of the 
events at Capel Tower and are aware of the 
party's presence in the region. Their express 
purpose is to find and kill Edmund. The most 
likely spot for an encounter with these troops 
is at the Drake & Castle Inn. 

Group 2 

This group is identical to the first group 
except that there are only five horsemen 
(instead of eight) and their captain. On a roll 
of 1 or 2 on ld6, this group is encountered 
patrolling the roads from the Three Feathers 
Inn past Fontenmere Abbey and thence 
northwest as far as the secret path through 
Noren's Wood. It will never be encountered on 
the secret path or inside Noren's Wood. If the 
party does not encounter this patrol further 
north, then it does meet the patrol at the 


Three Feathers Inn. 

Group 3 

10 foot soldiers: AC 5; MV 3"; F3; hp 18 each; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 with spear; AL LN 

1 captain: AC 4; MV 3"; F4; hp 23; #AT 1; D 
1-8 with sword; AL LE 

The infantrymen making up this party are 
dressed in gray tunics emblazoned with the 
black raven device. Beneath their tunics they 
wear scale armor. Each is armed with a sword 
and spear and carries a shield. Each has 1-20 
sp on his person. There are two horses left at 
Fontenmere and two of the fighters pursue the 
group on horseback if such action is 
appropriate to the encounter. 

In the improbable event that the group tries to 
return the royal seal and scepter to 
Fontenmere, the captain tries to take them into 
his custody. 

Edrin's men have cleaned up the damage 
inflicted on the abbey by the brigands who 
sacked it. Two guards are now posted outside 
the abbey, one at the north door and one at the 
south door. The captain and the rest of his 
troop are inside. The captain has set up a 
makeshift office in room 3. 

The troop's ostensible purpose is to restore 
and guard the abbey. However, the captain has 
secret orders to kill Prince Edmund if he 
should fall into the soldiers' hands. If the 
prince is recognized, the captain orders his 
men to attack and fight to the death. If the 
melee goes against Edrin's men, the captain 
sends one of the men to ride for 
reinforcements. If Edmund is captured, the 
captain kills him. 

Mendal Secord, the Assassin 

Mendal Secord has shadowed the party all the 
way from Capel Tower to Griffon Castle, 
moving along the river track on horseback. 
Having thus discovered Duke Aimar's secret 
stronghold, Secord has established himself in a 
wooded hiding place and waited for events to 
unfold. If he sees the party leave the castle 
without the prince, he contents himself with 
trailing it south. If the prince is with the party, 
however, Secord prepares to move against his 
royal victim as rapidly as possible, preferably 
before the party reaches any of the main roads 
of Andevar. 

Secord has already laid a tentative plan for the 
assassination. Using his ring of invisibility and 
his skill as an assassin, he tries to get ahead of 
the party and ambush the prince in some 
convenient wooded area, dropping onto 
Edmund from a tree. If this plan can't be 
concluded successfully, he tries to attack the 
prince when the party makes camp for the 
night. 

Regardless of which plan he uses, Secord 


30 











makes a surprise attack from the rear. If he 
leaps at the prince in ambush, he does not have 
the benefit of his + 4 to hit; however, he does 
have a 30 percent chance of causing triple 
damage with his dagger +2 through two 
attacks in the same round. As soon as he 
attacks, the assassin slips off his ring and 
becomes visible. If hit, the prince must save vs. 
poison or die within 10 rounds, unless remedial 
measures are taken to bind his wounds and deal 
with the poison from Secord's dagger blade. 
Secord sustains his attack until the prince is hit 
once. 

If Secord attacks the prince while the group 
camps for the night, he has a + 4 bonus to hit 
from the rear. However, he has a base chance 
of only 70 percent to get silent access to the 
prince. For every character on guard duty, 
Secord's chance to move silently is lessened by 
15 percent. If Secord fails to move silently, tell 
the characters on guard that they hear a rus 
tling in the bushes or a snapping twig. As in the 
first scenario, Secord becomes visible as soon 
as he attacks. 

To recap, Mendal Secord is human (AC 1; MV 
12"; A6; hp 31; #AT 2; D 3-6, 3-6 with dagger 
+2; SA poison; AL LE). He wears bracers of 
defense AC 5, a cloak of protection , and a ring 
of invisibility with no more than four charges 
left. He carries a short sword and a purse 
containing 1-20 gp and 1-10 pp. 

After attacking Edmund. Secord tries to escape 
on foot and reach his horse, which is tethered 
within 200 feet of the attack site. If he is 
overtaken, Secord becomes invisible if his ring 
still contains at least one charge. Otherwise, he 
fights to the death. 

If he escapes, the assassin returns to Dun- 
thrane, believing that he has killed the prince. 
There is a 60 percent chance that Secord falls 
prey to the worgs if he travels through Noren's 
Wood on his way back to Dunthrane. 

The Secret Path 

A few miles west of Griffon Castle and in 
plain sight of it is a narrow bridge over the 
Laine River. The bridge is part of an old road, 
now fallen into disuse, that cuts through this 
northwestern parr of the province. Point out to 
the party that this track seems considerably less 
traveled than other roads in Andevar. Ten miles 
south of the river, the party comes to a huge 
boulder just east of the road. At this point, the 
main road turns west. Behind this rock, and 
barely distinguishable amid the long grass that 
overgrows it, is a narrow path weaving slightly 
southeast. The path is wide enough for one 
horse, allowing single-file passage only. 

Noren's Wood 

Noren's Wood is home to a band of 10 


vicious worgs, each (AC 6, MV 18"; HD 4 + 
4; hp 30, 26, 25, 23, 21, 20, 20, 19, 17, 16; 
#AT 1; D 2-8; S L. AL NE). Currently the 
worgs are hunting small, cute animals in the 
southwest portion of the woods. If Mendal 
Secord attacks Edmund in this forest, he does 
so near the northern entrance. Then, if the 
assassin escapes the party, he rides south 
through the wood. There is a 60 percent 
chance that he and the worgs meet near the 
southern end of the secret path, in which case 
Mendal Secord automatically becomes lunch. 
The party finds his incomplete mortal remains 
near the southern edge of the wood. His 
weapons and all magical items except the ring 
of spell storing are gone. 

For the last 15 miles of the party's journey 
through the wood, check twice to see if they, 
too, are attacked by worgs. An encounter 
occurs on a roll of 1 on ld6. 

Conclusion -- 
If Edmund is Alive 

Once the party passes south of the Three 
Feathers Inn, it may automatically proceed to 
Dunthrane in safety. As the characters enter 
the fortified town, crowds gather around 
Edmund and the adventurers. Cries of joy and 
chants of "hail the king," fill the air. 

When word of this event spreads to the castle 
grounds, Hollend's few retainers move quickly 
to disarm Lord Edrin's depleted forces. 
Throughout the town Edrin's black raven ban 
ners are replaced by the yellow banners of the 
Royal House of Dunthrane. At the castle gates. 
Hollend and the council greet Edmund with a 
trumpet fanfare. 

After a day of rest, Prince Edmund and 
Hollend hold an audience with the party at 
which the adventurers learn that Lord Edrin is 
in irons and that Mendal Secord (if he returned 
to Dunthrane) has been charged with the 
murder of King Halfred. If Secord is dead, the 
parry hears that the late Secord was the king's 
assassin. Furthermore, a case is being made 
against Edrin for the murder of William 
Menote, Patriarch of Fontenmere. In the face 
of overwhelming evidence, it looks to Hollend 
like Edrin is well on his way to being 
shortened by a head. 

At the end of the audience, the party learns 
that the young prince will be crowned king as 
soon as a new patriarch is elected for Fonten 
mere. 

A grateful Edmund gives each character a 
reward of 2,000 gp and proclaims a 
week of celebration in their honor. Each 
surviving adventurer is also made an honorary 
citizen of Dunador and a new yearly holiday, 
to be called Liberation Day, is decreed in their 
honor. If any of the party died in the quest. 
Edmund asks the survivors to remain in Duna 


dor to provide the bards with material for use 
in songs honoring their memories. 

Of course, the party must return the royal seal 
and scepter of Dunador. Reward the party with 
an additional 6,000 experience points (divided 
equally) if they voluntarily return these 
treasured symbols. 

Conclusion -- 
If Edmund is Dead 

If the group bears Edmund's body back to 
Dunthrane, eliminate all fanfare and 
celebration from the previous scenario. In its 
place, terrible cries of anguish and wails of 
mourning fill the air as the dead prince is 
carried to the castle gates. Hollend meets the 
characters. Taking them aside, he asks about 
their mission and how it comes that Edmund is 
dead. When satisfied with the explanation, 
Hollend makes the following proposal. 


"This may be the darkest hour in the 
history of Dunador. Oh that evil should 
triumph in spite of all our efforts! A king, 
a patriarch, and now a prince, all dead at 
the hands of this evil lord. I fear now that 
we are, indeed, lost. 

"And yet, there may be one final chance 
to save the realm from this prince of evil. 
Edrin's forces are depleted. Some of his 
men are less than faithful. I believe that, 
thanks to you, he has but a handful of 
loyal men-at-arms at his side. If I go forth 
now and publicly charge him with the 
murder of his noble kinsmen, he must 
answer. As heir to the throne, he cannot be 
tried by the laws of man. But he must 
answer to our gods. 

"The way it is done is this: I can 
challenge him to champion combat, and 
before the people he would would have to 
accept the challenge. I know Edrin would 
not delegate this responsibility to a lesser 
man, for he is a knight well skilled in the 
fighting arts. Alas, for this task I am now 
far too old, and there are no others here 
who could unhorse the villain. None, that 
is, save one of you, perhaps. I have 
already asked much of you in this quest, 
but now I appeal to you once more. Will 
one of you take up arms again for truth, 
justice, and the people of Dunador! 
Though the foe be fearsome and the trial 
to the death, will one of you be our cham 
pion?" 


If the characters refuse Hollend's appeal, he 
bids them a regretful farewell. The adventure is 
then over. The characters leave, however, in 
certain knowledge that Dunador is left to the 
mercy of the evil Lord Edrin. In keeping with 


31 







Ending the Adventure 


such an unchivalrous action, the churlish 
characters receive no reward of any sort 
(money, honors, or bonus experience points). 

If, on the other hand, the characters accept 
Hollend's appeal, the king's advisor forces the 
issue with Lord Edrin. The Royal Council sends 
criers throughout Dunthrane to issue Hollend's 
challenge and charges. In a matter of hours, 
both charges and the challenge are echoed by 
hundreds of voices throughout Dunthrane. 

In the face of overwhelming pressure, Lord 
Edrin accepts Hollend's challenge. The contest 
is set for the following day and takes the form 
of a joust to the death in the combat field next 
to Dunthrane Castle. 


Choosing a Champion 

It may be that there is one character who is the 
obvious champion. If not, you can help the 
players choose a champion by having them 
draw lots. After listing the appropriate fighter or 
fighter multi-class characters, have the eligible 
players draw pencils, cut straws, or cut 
toothpicks. The player who draws the shortest 
stick is the champion. 

After the champion is chosen, Hollend and the 
council offer the character a lance, a suit of 
plate armor, and a medium war horse (AC 7; 
MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 18; #AT 0; S L; AL N). 
The character may accept these things or refuse 
them. Hollend asks the character to bear the 
shield colors of Dunador (light blue Dunadorian 
cross on a field of canaiy yellow). Make a note 
of the character's adjustment in armor class. 


If Lord Edrin is slain, a great cry of joy and 
exultation rises from the crowd. All the fanfare 
outlined earlier takes place. Despite their 
sorrow over Prince Edmund's death, the people 
of Dunthrane rejoice that justice has been done. 
The adventurers receive their rewards and the 
adventurer champion receives and additional 
1,500 experience points for individual merit. 


After much celebrating, the council announces 
that Hollend has been elected regent of 
Dunador. The new regent then publicly 
acknowledges the great service the adventurers 
have done Dunador and announces that he will 
manage the realm until Edmund's 14 year-old, 
female cousin returns from a convent in the 
west. This young cousin, Valenria, will become 
the first queen of Dunador. 


Pre-Rolled Player Characters 


Bromley Falco 

A talented illusionist-thief, this gnome wears 
leather annor and carries 12 darts, a dagger +1, 
thieves' tools, a potion of speed, and a ring of 
feather falling. He knows two lst-level spells (at 
least one should be color spray) and one 2d- 
level spell. 

Astrid Fyn 

This human cleric wears chain mail and carries 
a shield. She also has a mace +1 and a 
quarterstaff. She carries a potion of healing and 
a potion of invisibility. She knows two lst-level 
spells and two 2d-level spells. 

Cameron Gaunt 

This human ranger wears chain mail and carries 
a shield. He also uses a longsword +1, a 
composite bow with 20 arrows +1, a spear, and a 
flail. 


Owen Glendower 

Owen is a half-elf fighter-cleric He wears 
chain mail ii and carries a shield, a long sword 
+1, a flail, a short bow, and a dagger. He also 
has a potion of extra healing. He knows two 
lst-level spells and two 2d-level spells. 


Horsa Hengist 

This dwarf fighter wears plate mail and 
carries a shield. He also has a battle axe +1, a 
short sword, a crossbow, and a flail. 

Kersana Ringlo 

The elven magic-user wears bracers of 
defense AC 7 and has a +2 Dexterity bonus, 
giving her AC 5. She carries a 10-foot pole, a 
dagger +1, and a wand of paralyzation with 7 
charges. She knows three lst-level spells and 
two 2d-level spells. 


Lord Edrin 

Lord Edrin takes the field in black plate armor. 
His shield bears the black raven insignia against a 
field of light gray. A gold raven encircled by the 
silver crown of the regent of Dunador is fixed atop 
his black helmet. Lord Edrin is (AC 2; MV 
12718"; F6; hp 44; #AT 1; D 2-7 with lance, 1-8 
with sword; AL LE; S 15, I 16. W 12, D 14, C 16, 
CH 13). He rides a medium war horse (AC 7; MV 
18"; HD 2+2; hp 17; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-3; S L; 
AL N). He carries a sheathed long sword at his 
side. 


Horses 

In this outdoor adventure, mounted travel is 
essential. All the characters outlined on this page 
have light warhorses. Let the players roll hit 
points for their own horses. 

6 light warhorses (AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; #AT 2; 
D 1-4/1-4; S L; AL N). 

Bromley Falco is unusually large for a gnome 
and so is able to manage a light horse with 
appropriate saddle modifications. This character 
cannot ride a large mount. 


Rules for the Joust 

Use the same jousting rules described for the 
Barbarian's Bridge encounter. Each combatant is 
allowed only two weapons in this contest; a lance 
and one other. The joust is to the death. 

If the character dies at the hands of Lord Edrin, 
all other characters can leave Dunador in safety, 
taking the body of their fallen companion with 
them. But they leave without honors or reward. 


Character 

Race 

Sex 

AC 

MV 

Level 

hp 

AL 

Str 

Con 

Dex 

Int 

Wis 

Cha 

Bromley Falco 

G 

M 

6 

12 

I3/T4 

17 

LN 

14 

15 

15 

16 

12 

16 

Astrid Fyn 

H 

F 

4 

9 

C3 

21 

NG 

15 

14 

15 

14 

16 

13 

Cameron Gaunt 

H 

M 

3 

9 

F4 

31 

CG 

16 

17 

16 

14 

12 

14 

Owen Glendower 

HE 

M 

3 

12 

F3/C3 

24 

CG 

16 

14 

15 

11 

16 

13 

Horsa Hengist 

D 

M 

2 

9 

F3 

32 

LG 

15 

16 

14 

11 

13 

13 

Kersana Ringlo 

E 

F 

5 

12 

MU4 

16 

CN 

13 

14 

16 

17 

11 

17 


32 






Map 9A: Griffon Castle 
(ground level) 



1 square =10 feet 
Spiral Stairs 
Well 

Portcullis 

Trap Door in Flood 



Note: all spiral stairs lead upward 
to their respective tower rooms 
directly above (no trap doors). 


Map 9B: Griffon Castle 
(upper level) 

1 square =10 feet 
Spiral Stairs 
Well 

Walls are 40 feet high. 
Towers are 50 feet high. 




Note: each of the six towers and 
two gatehouses have open-air 
parapets above. All stairs and 
spiral stairs lead to trap doors and 
the parapets above. 



Traitor's Gate 























































































































































































Map 2: TheProvhice of Andevar 























































































































































¦PBqHMapyqpHiHMaqiuii 


Map t : Proyirtc^ pf An6$ym 

y \ ) i ¦ \ > i ) ( > < > < / ( 


Thd Northlands 


Bpuhdary df Aridevaf 

V / ' .¦' 


Larne River \ 


tMobrtedds 


Amtevar 

>-( .W y-h 


"'West lands 


Fbrrtertniere t 
Ab^ey 


Montrielie 


\ fids '> ft'hiii'ss 


ja'ot^bruiidm^ aivL( 
l.ari^i-JTi3.fTfs-ar<v~QU) J 

^k* < / ( ) 


Sodth^m 


ToDtmthmoe 


"SMB At--, A 




























Advanced 

Dungeons0*pragons 

Official Game Adventure 


Destiny of Kings 

Stephen Bourne 


When Treason Walks the Land... 

The kingdom of Dunador is in trouble. Since 
the king, Halfred of Dunthrane, was killed in a 
hunting accident, the land has hovered on the 
brink of civil war. Crown Prince Edmund, at 18 
only half-trained and quite unprepared to 
assume the throne, has yet to be crowned. Cur 
rently he is on a pilgrimage to the holy shrine of 
Nevron in the province of Andevar. While the 
uncrowned king is far from home, anarchy 
reigns in Dunador. 

Throughout the realm, plots are brewing and 
evil hands are eagerly clutching at the sword of 
treason. Inevitably the focus of these intrigues 
is in the troubled province of Andevar to the 
north. For it is here that the young Prince has 
journeyed and here that he must be crowned. 

In this dark hour Dunador has but one faith 
ful servant: Hollend, chief advisor to the old 
king. Painfully aware of all that is at stake, Hol 
lend has sought the aid of a brave party of 
adventurers in a desperate bid to tip the scales 
in favor of truth ana justice. But, even as the 
party secretly enters Andevar, the forces of 
evil strike with blinding speed and ruthless 
determination. 


(c)Copyright 1986 TSR Inc. All Rights REservers. Printed in the U.S.A. 


TSR Inc. 

P.O. Box 756 
Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038-274-0 

ISBN 394-55417-5TSR0800 










