Conversion by Michael Curtis and Tim Wadzinski
DED.
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
A FIFTH EDITION CONVERSION AND CLASSIC HOMAGE S3: EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Conversion by Michael Curtis and Tim Wadzinski
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x >
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Full credits for the original editions of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks can be found in their respective sections of this book, where they are scanned verbatim from prior printings. The credits that follow are for the 5E portion of this work.
Original Writer
5E Conversion Design and Writing
5E Edition Editing and Additional Support Additional Writing
Special Thanks 5E Edition Playtesters
Cover Design
Cover Art
Endsheet Art
Interior Layout Interior Art Direction Interior Art
Cartography Scans and Restoration Publisher
This volume is produced under permission from Wizards of the C
man Games and the Goodman Games logos are trademarks of Goodman Games. Contents
Gary Gygax
Michael Curtis
Tim Wadzinski
Tony DiTerlizzi, James Maliszewski,
Erol Otus, Jon Peterson
David “Diesel” LaForce
Sara Beyers, Bruce Cunnington, Errin Larsen, Kenneth W. Oswald, Rob Plummek, Aaron Sarver, Douglas Ward, and Paul Wiltburn; Tim Deschene, Ben Grimes, John Hess, Jeff Laluc, and Jaime Sine; Dave 8cylinder, Dan Bidwa, Michael Bolam, Allen Hitches, John Shortino, Jonathan Snodgrass, and Christopher Woodford
Lester B. Portly
Erol Otus
Erol Otus
Jamie Wallis
Jeremy Mohler, Joseph Goodman
Tom Galambos, Doug Kovacs, Cliff Kurowski, William McAusland, Brad McDevitt, Peter Mullen, Erol Otus, Stefan Poag, Chad Sergesketter, Chris Yarborough
William McAusland
Steve Crompton
Joseph Goodman
ast. Dungeons & Dragons is a trademark of Wizards of the Coast. Good-
2019 Wizards of the Cc
t LLC, PO Box 707,
Renton, WA 98057-0707, USA. Wizards of the Coast, D&D, their respective logos, and all adventure titles are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the USA and other countries, and are used with permission,
visit vs ONLINE at: www.GooDmaAn-GAMES.cCOM
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER 3: THE SPACESHIP CHAPTER 4: ADVENTURE: ALTERNATIVES. AND EXPANSIONS sisccccssssssssccssssssescnssbacsssastsaccessasssessassisessssnnne 229 CHAPTER 5: THE CRASH SITE ENVIRONS 233
APPENDIX A: AGAINST THE VENOMOUS WARLORD APPENDIX B: NEW MONSTERS. APPENDEX C2 TECHNOLOGICAL ITEMS s.casscacssscssssougacceassessssqctgsheasateckupceasssgezastsssadactasteaeatceustedastsnaeriasageeezicttas 315 APPENDIX D: CHARACTERS. APPENDIX E: HANDOUTS
APPENDIX F: MAPS APPENDIX G: METAMORPHOSIS ALPHA AND EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS....
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
o | }x < ai | cy % a me a rt a w ,= | a oO} BE | ® E a a a ¥ a .
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED
CHAPTER ONE
Author’s Introduction by Michael Curtis
nthe annals of Dungeons & Dragons history, there are
dungeons that are legendary. Gamers from around the
globe speak with a mixture of awe, fondness, and fear of places such as the Tomb of Horrors, Undermoun- tain, Castle Greyhawk, the Ghost Tower of Inverness, and others. Each of these dungeons is—or was, after the adventurers got through with them—home to a vast ar- ray of monsters, traps, and fabulous treasures. Being able to say you braved their depths and survived is a badge of honor worn proudly at the gaming table.
Yet, there is one renowned dungeon that outshines them all. Yes, there are monsters and treasures galore, but they are of an ilk far stranger than anything else found in the countless worlds of Dungeons & Dragons. That dungeon is the mysterious and nameless one that waits beneath the Barrier Peaks. The one that is described in the book you now hold in your hands (or your tablet or phone or... You get the idea).
Expedition to the Barrier Peaks is a landmark piece of game design and most of us can only wonder what the reac- tions were around the table back in 1976 when Gary Gygax debuted it as a tournament adventure for Origins II. I’m sure it met with a mixture of sheer disbelief, child- ish glee, and probably a few upturned noses. As the game session progressed, the players began to realize that they weren't facing yet another dungeon filled with 20’-by-20° rooms occupied by orcs guarding treasure chests or even hoary old crypts containing ravenous undead lead by a scheming vampire or lich. No, the dungeon beneath the Barrier Peaks was unlike anything that had come before it and very little resembling it has followed in its footsteps.
If you’ve somehow managed to avoid the secret of this adventure up until now, I beg you to close this book, hand it to someone else, and bid—nay command—them to run it for you. Your world will never be the same.
OK, are those folks gone? For those of us in on the se- cret, let’s talk among ourselves then.
The idea of mixing high and low technology in fiction wasn’t a new idea when Gary wrote Expedition to the Bar-
rier Peaks. It’s a concept that goes back at least as far a Mark Twain’s A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Poul Anderson, a favorite author of Gygax’s, played with the idea in his novel, The High Crusade. So while the idea wasn’t a new one, it hadn’t been tackled in the newborn field of fantasy role-playing games. The players at Ori- gins II couldn’t have seen it coming. Despite its unique concept, however, I’m sure there were some at that first game table who weren’t pleased with the dungeon once they twigged what was going on.
Not everyone enjoys a mixture of fantasy and science fiction after all, and Expedition to the Barrier Peaks is the dungeon that joyfully mashes the chocolate of swords and sorcery into the peanut butter of sci-fi. Fantasy pur- ists would balk at confronting robots in the metal halls of a downed spaceship when they signed on to play wiz- ards and warriors defeating the dungeons and dragons they were ostensibly promised. Stodgy grognards, who already demonstrated a distrust in any form of “war- gaming” that didn’t ground itself in historical accuracy, were already dismissing the new role-playing game with its embracing of fantasy tropes—laser guns and “Star Trek’’-esque sliding doors would have sent them into paroxysms.
But for every naysayer, there were 10 gamers who em- braced such delicious mash-ups with childlike abandon. Who would possibly turn down the opportunity to com- bine magical swords and blaster rifles against classic D&D monsters and brand-new alien menaces? The combina- tion of science fiction and fantasy concepts would only gain popularity in the years ahead; “Star Wars,” with its mixture of spaceships and mystical powers, was only a year away when the first session of Expedition to the Bar- rier Peaks was unleashed on the world, demonstrating that the futuristic and the fantastic can exist side-by-side.
More than 40 years later, I like to believe that the fire- walls between science fiction and fantasy have weakened and that the gamer community at large is more accepting when one genre bleeds into the other. In short, I think the gamers of today are ready to accept Expedition to the
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Barrier Peaks in the manner it deserves, enthusiastically embracing it rather than shunning it as a grotesque hy- brid birthed from a malfunctioning clone tank.
Role-playing adventure design has changed in many re- gards since the original Expedition was written. It comes from an age when story was incidental and a good “dun- geon” (a synonym for any adventure) was one that chal- lenged the players’ brains as much as their characters’ abilities. It is a “funhouse dungeon” of the oldest school, where anything is possible so long as it is unexpected. And while other funhouse dungeons, those grounded entirely in pure fantasy settings, haven’t aged well in the eyes of gamers used to more modern design schools, the dungeon of the Expedition to the Barrier Peaks has re- mained largely critic-proof simply because it’s a mixture of so many diverse elements. It’s easy to snub a supposed fantasy dungeon that includes anachronisms and illogi- cal monsters, but in the already otherworldly setting of a crashed spaceship, arguments against such elements lack weight.
When I was gifted the honor of converting this classic adventure into the modern Dungeons & Dragon rules, there was only one concern that caused a bit of lost sleep: the original futuristic technology. Forty years ago, we couldn’t imagine that we’d live in a world where comput- ers would shrink to the size of a smart phone or that dig- ital information storage would outstrip analog methods. In light of what we’re capable of doing with technology, much of the “futuristic” elements of the spaceship seem quaint (the microfilm library, for example). Discussions occurred about whether to “update the future” and use modern technological levels as our starting point, imag- ining what the future would look like on the spaceship if the adventure were written today. In the end, however, it was decided to remain true to Gary’s vision of the future.
This was done to firstly honor what the co-creator of Dungeons & Dragons originally wrote, but also because we realized that the past is just as strange and unfamil- iar to some today as the future would be. There will be players experiencing Expedition to the Barrier Peaks for the first time, almost all younger ones who are just discover- ing D&D, who will find a microfilm reader just as mys-
terious and unrecognizable as the futuristic technology the adventure’s original players encountered in 1976! If anything, I wish I had the chance to make the spaceship even more “retro future” and fill it with magnetic tape data storage devices, 5-inch floppy disks, and other rel- ics from the future we envisioned almost a half-century ago. Alas, I only had so much word count to play with, so this desire went unrealized (there’s nothing stopping you though!).
Regardless of whether you find the future on display in this adventure to be quaint, imaginative, humorous, or even not to your purist taste, it is nevertheless a classic dungeon module that everyone should experience once in their gaming career. To do so is to connect you with your fellow gamers, to share an experience with one an- other like some sort of deep dive into a Jungian collective unconscious. Whether you first started gaming in 1977 and never abandoned the rules you cut your eyeteeth on or are just getting started with the most up-to-date itera- tion of Dungeons & Dragons, this version of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks has you covered. You'll never be the same after you enter that mysterious cave set into a rocky slope, one sheathed in metal and disgorging bizarre mon- sters. I hope you have as much fun in there as I did.
¢ =
Michael Curtis was introduced to mashing science fiction and fan- tasy together in a darkened theater in 1977 when his father brought him to see “Star Wars.” Hes never been the same. Since that time, Michael made a name for himself in the Goodman Games writers’ pool by first mixing time-travelers and cavemen together in his well-loved DCC RPG adventure DCC #79: Frozen in Time, then jaunted to the Warden where he further mashed this up in the Metamorphosis Alpha Deluxe Edition and its companion modules The Android Underlords andThe Level of the Lost. Michael also wrote some of the first 3PP releases for 5E Dungeons € Dragons, Goodman Games’ Glitterdoom and Watr-lock, and has contributed to both OAR #1: Into the Borderlands and OAR #2: The Isle of Dread. He currently Lives on Long Island, NY, with a slowly-diminishing collection of books and a static number of cats.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIIICARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Wizards and Goblins and... Spaceships?
Yes, Please! by Tony DiTerlizzi
on my life would be an understatement. Not only
did I contribute artwork to many books, adventure modules, and magazines throughout the 1990s, I was an avid player during the 1980s when the game rose from an obscure hobby to pop cultural pastime.
T- say that Dungeons & Dragons has had an impact
I was hooked from the moment I held my first 20-sided die, an unheard-of piece of plastic that soon encom- passed not only luck but adventure and daring deeds in a fantastic world of sword-and-sorcery. I felt as if I had wandered into a land patched together from the pages of J.R.R. Tolkien, Robert E. Howard, and Peter Bea- gle, authors I adored. I was fortunate in that my middle school friends were just as obsessed with D&D as I was; many weekend sleepovers were planned around game nights. The dice never stopped rolling and the crunching of Doritos never ended as we explored the mysterious Caverns of Quasqueton, the prehistoric Isle of Dread, and battled our way through the jam-packed Caves of Chaos. I might have been exhausted at the conclusion of each adventure, but I always counted the days until we'd return for more escapades. After all, there were wizard’s spells to learn, magic potions to sip, enchanted swords to master... and hordes of vicious goblins to slay. A kid’s life could not have been any better.
Then one night our Dungeon Master told of a mysterious cave from which new threats to the kingdom emerged. Expecting to arrive at a new underground dungeon my friends and I discovered a downed spaceship loaded with robots, futuristic technology, and alien life-forms.
My 12-year-old mind was blown at the mash-up of my favorite genres. I’m a science fiction nerd and, like so many, I was introduced in 1977 when I first watched a film set “...in a galaxy far, far away.” The blockbuster suc- cess of “Star Wars: A New Hope” ushered an explosion of sci-fi in pop culture which burned brightly through the next decade. Bloodthirsty aliens parasitized the crew of the space tug Nostromo. Cylons battled a “ragtag fleet” of humans every Sunday night on television. Arthur Dent escaped the destruction of Earth and learned that the an-
swer to everything in the universe was 42. The rock band, Styx, recorded a synth-infused song about Mr. Roboto.
In my mind the starry realm of sci-fi sat right next to the myriad wonders of fantasy, but, like books on the shelves of a vast library, the two hardly commingled.’
Then came TSR’s module $3, Expedition to the Barrier Peaks, and suddenly all bets were off.
When I reflect on it now, this adventure was so appealing because it mirrored the natural evolution of play for this kid—I had once teamed my Micronauts with plastic cow- boys to battle rampaging toy dinosaurs on my bedroom floor. And this was just like the wizardry of Gary Gygax’s game design: he cherished all the things he’d loved as a kid and created a world where they all could coexist.
T’m more a D&D enthusiast than a historian, but I do know that Gygax’s love of sci-fi is evident in the ear- liest incarnation of the game. Robots and androids are listed in the Monsters ¢ Treasure booklet from the original 1974 edition. So, too, are Tharks and Martians (no doubt, from Edgar Rice Burroughs’ A Princess of Mars) in the “Wilderness Wandering Monsters” tables found within The Underworld & Wilderness Adventures booklet of the same edition. Older gamers will recall the Gamma World RPG released by TSR at the same time as the launch for AD&D. It seemed inevitable that Gygax would one day blend the two genres into one epic adventure.
But how could he successfully create the confusion and awe that a medieval-minded player character, say a hal- fling thief, would feel when discovering otherworldly al- ien artifacts—especially when the savvy gamer playing that halfling knew how to activate a communicator (what gamer of the time wasn’t also a devotee of “Star Trek,” that other sci-fi obsession?) or switch on a lightsaber? The answer was simple: illustration.
Like Tomb of Horrors before it, Expedition to the Barrier Peaks utilizes illustration to great effect. I consider $3 a milestone in gaming design for its presentation, proof that visuals enrich the gaming experience. Artwork is so key to this adventure that the majority of illustrations
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
were bound in a separate booklet containing over 60 black & white drawings (as well as four full-page color pages), all of which is intended to be shown to players. TSR’s iconic artists of the day like Jeff Dee, Erol Otus, and David Sutherland deftly drew scenes of task-orient- ed androids, otherworldly gardens, and alien creatures ina setting that also housed classic D&D monsters like Shambling Mounds, Umber Hulks, and a Mind Flayer.
Among these fantastic drawings are puzzling diagrams of odd devices that neither a player character, nor the players themselves, could easily identify. And while many of the futuristic gadgets bore a resemblance to real-world items like calculators, pistols, and grenades, their design was a ruse to throw off the gamers. Handheld computer monitors turned out to be blasters. That flamethrower your halfling discovered? It sprayed weed killer. Don’t forget the Flash Gordon-inspired paralysis pistol that your character is probably holding backwards. Time to roll a saving throw.
The combination of genre-hopping, puzzle-solving, and ever-lurking danger makes Expedition to the Barrier Peaks an unforgettable experience and a benchmark in D&D. Gygax pushed the limits of what a role-playing game ad- venture could be, and our imaginations are richer for it.
Now sharpen your weapons, steel your resolve, and ven- ture forth into that strange cave of metal hidden high
atop the peaks. Whether it is your first time or a return visit, may luck be on your side! (But watch out for those Vegepygmies.)
New York Times bestselling author and illustrator Tony DiTer- Lizzi has been creating children’s books for nearly two decades. From fanciful picture books like The Spider & The Fly (a Caldecott Honor book), to chapter books like Kenny and The Dragon and the WondLa trilogy, DiTerlizzi imbues his stories with a rich imagination. With Holly Black, he created the middle-grade series, The Spiderwick Chronicles, which has sold over 20 mil- Lon copies, been adapted into a feature film, and has been translat- ed in over 30 countries. He teamed up with Lucasfilm to retell the original “Star Wars” trilogy as a picture book. and his early work has been collected in Realms: The Roleplaying Game Art of Tony DiTerlizzi by Dark Horse Books. Recently the Norman Rockwell museum's 20-year retrospective of DiTerlizzi’s artwork, “Never Abandon Imagination,” broke attendance records. He has been featured in Time magazine, USA Today, CNN, PBS, NPR, the BBC, and “The Today Shom.”
? Some would argue that “Star Wars,” with its mysticism and classic quest story structure, is a fantasy but I would point out that it is skinned in a sci-fi universe of space- ships, laser blasters, and droids.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Painting the Froghemoth
by Erol Otus
e were fortunate to have Erol Otus contribute an original painting to this volume of Original Adventures Reincarnated. When he was a TSR employee several decades ago, he illustrated the original edition ef the adventure. Now he has returned with a nent
image inspired by the original material.
We asked Erol if he could describe his artistic process for our readers. Unlike many modern artists, Erol still works in physical media. His art involves actual pencil and paper, and real paints and brushes! We hope you enjoy this behind-the-scenes outline of his process, which gives
insights into how the finished painting came about. You can see the finished painting on the front endsheet of this book.
First, a small sketch planning the content and composition:
The sketch is scanned and printed out at the size of the final painting, then transferred to the illustration board by trac-
ing over it with graphite paper underneath:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
All that for this? But it does maintain the composition from the thumbnail. I find that using the thumbnail just for refer:
ence, and recreating the drawing without the tracing, I always end up liking the composition of the little sketch better:
|
Blue pencil helps work out details, getting to the final drawing with less mess:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Final drawing with graphite over the blue pencil:
Painting in progress, in various stages:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
—— cs
2 Ero/ Otus is a legendary artist whose credits trace back to the earliest
of TSR and Dungeons € Dragons. Among other things, he illustrated the front cover of Deities & Demigods, and the 1981 edition of the Dungeons & Dragons boxed sets. He also created the Remorhaz.
xy ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS é f™ ee -_
Mixing Peanut Butter and Chocolate:
Sci-Fi and Fantasy Themes in Dungeon Module S3
by James Maliszewski
ased loosely on an Advanced Dungeons & Dragons
tournament scenario from Origins II in 1976 that
combined elements from James M. Ward’s Meta- morphosis Alpha and a portion of Gary Gygax’s Cas- tle Greyhawk, the 1980 module Expedition to the Barrier Peaks was presented as “an exciting insertion into your campaign and as a primer on how to combine ‘science’ into your fantasy role-playing.” Gamers have been argu- ing about it ever since.
That’s because the decision to include overt science fic- tional elements into what is ostensibly a fantasy adven- ture scenario is a contentious one in certain quarters. One of the fault lines that rambles beneath the surface of the hobby is the lack of distinction between fantasy, horror, and science fiction, three now-separate genres that had, prior to the ‘70s (if not later), peacefully coex- isted as part of an indistinguishable mass of literature. Dungeons & Dragons arose in such an environment and is pretty comfortable with such genre bending, because early gamers (mostly) saw it as part of a long tradition, going back to classics like 1933's “The Tower of the El- ephant” by Robert E. Howard, whose eponymous tower is inhabited by an extraterrestrial being. Some gamers who grew up later or who were never immersed in the world of early fantasy fandom tend to cavil at such easy mixing of elements, seeing them as breaking with fantasy conventions.
I am certainly sympathetic to those who don’t want chocolate in their peanut butter when it comes to fantasy gaming. I occupy a weird middle place in this dispute, be- cause, while I had plenty of contact with the remnants of the old days of fantasy fandom, I wasn’t part of it myself. Instinctively, 'm part of the camp that sees sci-fi and fantasy as two separate genres of imaginative fiction. I’m also hyper-rationalist and prefer that my settings “make sense,” which is to say, that I can explain how and why everything works the way it does, even if my explana- tions resort to the fantastic to do so. Having spaceships
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
and lasers in a setting with gods and magic requires some imaginative explanations: it can be done but it’s often more work than I prefer to undertake and so I avoid it.
Nowadays, though, I have come around, perhaps not to a full-bore appreciation of “gonzo” settings, but a bet- ter understanding of the hows and whys of what some might see as genre mixing. It’s very hard, if you have any knowledge of the history of the RPG hobby and the fan- doms from which it sprang, to get worked up about ro- bots and aliens in Greyhawk. They've a/»wys been there, just as they’ve always been a part of weird fiction. The boxes we now use to categorize—and market!—our cre- ative products are purely artificial, the result primarily of bean counters looking for ways to sell their wares more effectively. “Genre” nowadays is often more an exercise in brand building than literary theory and modules like $3 are throwbacks to the days before such a mindset was commonplace.
The module itself is effectively a dungeon crawl, but in a “dungeon” of steel and plastic rather than stone and mud. The crashed spaceship is large and filled with a wide variety of environments, making it a terrific set-up for encounters of many sorts. These encounters include many memorable new monsters, like the froghemoth and vegepygmies, and give us hints into a possible expla- nation of the illithids that I think works far better than anything we saw subsequently. The “magic items” of the module are technological artifacts whose use is potential- ly dangerous, thanks to a series of charts Gamma World fans should recognize. I’m also fond of the illustrations of these artifacts, very few of which look anything like you might expect, which contributes to their mystery. In- deed, Expedition to the Barrier Peaks may be one of the most lavishly illustrated modules ever, since it came with a booklet containing 63 separate pieces of artwork, many by Erol Otus, who, as an artist, was probably destined to contribute to a product like this.
Like most modules of the period, there’s only the thin- nest outline of a plot and little in the way of context or explanation about the spaceship and its origins. Referees are thus left to their own devices to provide these things. Back in the day, I never did so, but [ think $3 could, if the referee is willing, be the catalyst for some very fascinating and potentially setting-changing events. Dave Arneson’s Blackmoor campaign—almost certainly another inspira- tion for this module—provides one example of how this might proceed, but there are naturally as many possibili- ties as there are individual referees. Expedition to the Barrier Peaks may not be to everyone’s tastes, especially nowa- days, but it’s nonetheless an excellent romp and a time capsule from an age before the demands of marketing
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
narrowed our sense of what was and was not “fantasy.”
I re-read S3 every few months to remind myself of this; it’s a practice I recommend highly if you're able to do so.
James Maliszemski started role-playing in the late Fall of 1979, when he gpened up a copy of the Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set edited by Dr. J. Eric Holmes originally purchased for his father. More than 40 years later, he’s still playing. James is known for his blog Grognardia, which was the focal point of the OSR movement in its early days.
His memories and musings about roleplaying games and related
nonsense, as well as articles about the history of the hobby from its earliest beginnings to the present day, remain of interest to readers to this day.
Goodman Games Interviews
Diesel LaForce by Tim Wadzinski
avid S. “Diesel” LaForce worked as a prolific staff
artist and cartographer at TSR from 1979-1997,
working on maps for most of the classic modules and contributing illustrations to C1: The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan, Deities & Demigods, and the B/X (Basic and Expert) rulebooks, among countless other seminal gam- ing products. He also served as primary cartographer for the first two years of Dungeon magazine’s run.
We had the opportunity to speak with him regarding his maps and drawings in Expedition to the Barrier Peaks.
Goodman Games: I’ve long admired your illustration work, and I was inspired to talk to you after hearing you speak at Gary Con XI about your experience as TSR’s cartographer. What do you recall about working on 53: Expedition to the Barrier Peaks?
DL: If I remember correctly, those maps were round. I think I had to come up with a little bit of different sym- bology because it’s a high-tech area, and the doors were different—some were kind of oval-shaped things, more like a portal.
GG: There were drop tubes, and some of the doors were color card-coded. They weren’t standard dungeon doors like we were all used to seeing.
DL: Yes, and the color codes, they all had a letter desig- nating what code they were, what color. For all our maps back then, we used press type. We didn’t have things type- set that we could cut out and paste down, we would get these press type letter sheets. I think Letraset put them out, and they were just letters in different sizes on a clear sheet, and you put that sheet down, and you would rub over the letter to transfer it off onto your paper. With all the type on those maps, I had to do that little rub-off for all the labels and everything that went on them. I remem- ber specifically doing all those little doors, putting the Y for yellow, R for red, so on and so forth.
GG: It appears that there are different fonts, and there are many words on the maps that label some of the rooms—Library, Game Room—things like that that are
full words, that appear to be in a smaller, tighter font than these letters that were used for the doorways.
DL: Thete’s lots. Right, well, the Letraset sheets, you could get them in different font sizes, or you get a style, a font style on the sheet, and then the style had all differ- ent sizes on it. You could even get strip fonts. We would have drawers full of these Letraset sheets. (laughs) They weren't really filed in any kind of alphabetical way to find them or anything, it was just stacks of sheets in draw- ers, and you'd pull them out, and you'd just kind of flip through them to see what you liked. That’s the way we kept track of that stuff, which was hardly at all. (laughs) We would just have different fonts, and use those.
GG: How tedious was that? It sounds like you're es- sentially doing some of this freehand, where the words would then have to be vertically centered, or horizontally centered, to keep them all aligned properly. I imagine that was kind of a nightmare.
DL: Yes, occasionally, you would Letraset down a letter, and it would be crooked, or offset, and you'd have to get this rough, hard eraser, and you could kind of erase it off, scrape off the letter with this eraser, and you could put a new one down. Or, if your letter had a break in it or something, you would take, maybe the number 1, or a let- ter L, or something like that, off the Letraset sheet, and fix your letter by just putting it over the top of that break on your letter that you had. (laughs) Especially, if you ran out of a letter. Sometimes you'd have to build a letter. That happened occasionally, too. (laughs) So you’re actu- ally making a letter out of other letters. You would flip your sheet over and get a really sharp blade, and you’d cut your letter or your number, and you’d scrape away what you weren’t going to use, and then you'd flip your sheet back over, and you’ve made an L shape, or just a vertical piece, and you could start building your letters or your numbers with that. So, yeah, it could become tedious at times. And then, later on, we started leaving spaces on the map or grid, so that the letters could go over the grid, and not have the grid go through the letters. You’d have
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
to plan out how your word was going to go in. Yeah, it was tedious. That was kind of stupid. (laughs)
But then, we learned that we could go, “Hey, you know what we can do? We can just run off type and the type- setter could do it for us.” Then we could just cut out our type and put some wax on the back of our paper, and cut out our letters or numbers or whole words, and put them tight down,
GG: The different techniques, letters over and under the gridlines, appear to both be used in $3. For example, on the Level III map where there are many cargo holds, for the letters in the words Cargo and Hold, you're trying to fit them into the squares nicely, but then on the Level IV map there are places where you put the words over the lines.
DL: Yeah, and then, not specifically for that module, but there were times where we realized we could put the Le- traset letters right on a piece of paper, and cut that out, and glue it down, or wax it down, so that piece of paper would obliterate any detail underneath it. So, if it needed to go through some lines, or through a wall, or obscure something so you could read the type, you'd just have it ona piece of paper that was cut out and put over the top of that. But you know, it was all a learning curve. You learn as you go along, like, “Well, how can I make this look better?” It was a slow process of making things look alittle bit better as we went along, as we thought about it more and more.
But the Letraset stuff, the way that that’s done there, that was pretty much Dave Sutherland who started doing that. That’s all I knew when I got there, is how to do that. I don’t know how we then started graduating to differ- ent ideas. I suppose different guys—either me or Dave, or Steve Sullivan—would come up with some different things.
GG: You mentioned the symbology. Did you just make a lot of that up, or did you look at other things for inspira- tion?
DL: Well, I was pretty good at drafting when I got out of high school. I was using those skills any time I would do a building or a castle or something. But, we weren’t using drafting symbols, because Dave Sutherland had already come up with the basic symbols for a door, or a window, or a well, that kind of stuff. So, there was already a sym- bology in place. I just expanded upon it a lot, because we started getting into different kinds of things. You know, locked secret doors, one-way secret doors, an open door,
a portcullis, a barred window—just all kinds of stuff like that. And, it became obvious after a while that we were starting to get some confused signals between us, the mappers, and the writers, and the editors, as to what their symbology meant on their maps, because nobody was consistent with it.
I don’t know if I decided to do it on my own, or I was tasked to do it. I would imagine I was probably tasked to do it by Jim Roslof, now that I think about it a little bit more, to sit down and come up with all our standard symbology. Just standardize everything so that there was no confusion, so everybody would be going off the same page. In doing that, I realized there were symbols that we would need in the future, too. So, as I was coming up with the standardization, I was also coming up with some new stuff to plug in there that would help us in the future with any other thing, that we didn’t have to scratch our heads and wonder how to do it—we’d already have it. And then, with the outdoor stuff, Darlene, she had already come up with pretty much that iconic look, with the Greyhawk map, so any time we did an illustrative type of map, we gravitated towards her look. But then, there were simpler things, like map hexes that had little trian- gles in them for mountains, three lines for a swamp or a fen, and so on and so forth. So, I had to standardize all that stuff, too.
GG: Did you put together an actual document? Was there a symbology bible?
DL: Yes. It was two sheets, if I remember correctly. So, it wasn’t a big document, or anything. It was just sheets of little boxes stacked on top of one another, and in each box was an example of whatever it had to be. You know, the door, the portcullis, the window, the barred window, so on and so forth, and they were just labeled. And, eve- rybody had access to those, so everybody knew what to put down on a piece of paper to show what you wanted.
GG: There’s an obvious Easter egg on the Level II map of the spaceship, where you can clearly see the letters E-G-G—Gary Gygay’s initialh—upside down. Was that one of the first, or if not the first, map Easter egg you had come across?
DL: Yes, that’s the first one I can ever remember seeing. I don’t think there are any map Easter eggs earlier than that. I think that might be the first one. I didn’t come up with that, it was whoever designed the map came up with that and stuck it in there.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
GG: Would you be given a sketch map done in pencil on graph paper as your starting point?
DL: Yes. We would get a pretty well-detailed drawing— (laughs) sometimes they were pretty well-detailed—of the whole level. It was just on graph paper, and we got all the text so we could read what was going on in each room. We would go through and we'd map it, and we'd kind of double check to make sure that what we were putting down on paper for the map coincided with the text. Sometimes we'd get a map and, say, a door would be left off, or they’d put a staircase in that didn’t match up with any staircase on the next level. In fact, I think you even pointed out to me that, one of the lifts or drop tubes in $3 doesn’t really match up with one of the levels. And, that’s my boo-boo, I guess, I didn’t catch it. (laughs) It was probably given to me that way, too, you know?
So, when we would map out our projects, we would have to be counting squares, you know? I mean, all day long, you're counting, “Okay, well, how big is this room? One, two, three, four, five, by one, two, three, four, five, six. Okay.” Then you map that out, and then, you put the next room to it, then the next room to that. But then, when you go to do your next level, you have to make sute it matches up before you start penning it all down. So, yeah, it was a lot of counting. (laughs)
GG: Yes, I was going over the maps for our fifth edition conversion, doing a lot of counting, just as you said. I noticed between a couple of the levels, the drop tubes wander around a little bit. And then, you know, I thought maybe, maybe that was intentional. Having the lift tubes curve that way maybe threw off the ship’s equilibrium, which maybe contributed to the crash of the ship. I’m try- ing to help retcon here a little bit...
DL: Oh, that’s interesting. That could be intentional by the writer, too. I don’t know. But, you know, unless it’s because I didn’t count correctly—there could be that, too. (laughs)
We usually drew on graph paper, or like a translucent vel- lum you put over graph paper, and then you do all your drawing on the vellum. You'd draw it all out in blue pen- cil, first, to get all your major spots, and then, you could go in with pen. Or a lot of times we also used this stuff that came on rolls, that was lines of different widths. You'd just roll it out—it’s just like a tape, a black tape— and you would just cut it off. That’s how you made your walls.
GG: I’m looking at the maps now, and I’m just trying to wrap my head around this. So, all the thick lines that were the walls, each of those was a piece of tape that you had to cut?
DL: Yes. Because it was actually faster and more consist- ent to use a piece of tape like that, than it was to try and draw that line out.
GG: Wow. So, that had to take quite a bit of time, espe- cially in this module with so many complex maps. This had to be a huge project.
DL: Yeah, it could take us weeks to do a project. Sure.
Do you know why those maps were printed in blue? The reason they did that was copying machines would not reproduce light blue ink, so you couldn’t copy the maps. They wanted to make it hard for someone to pirate the stuff. They’d print them in blue to keep people from cop- ying and handing them out.
GG: So that’s true? I thought maybe it was an old wives’ tale.
DL: It’s true. A lot of illustrations and maps would be sketched out in blue pencil, then I’d go over itin ink, and in the final product the pencil wouldn’t show up. The
graph paper we used came with squares in blue ink. You could draw right on it, shoot it with a camera, and all the lines would disappear. A black-and-white camera does not see blue. It sees red—if you marked something up in red you'd see it as black on the finished product—but not the light blue. We could even get light blue markers and sketch with them, and they would not show up on the camera either.
GG: This was one the first modules to come with a sepa- rate illustration booklet. You had quite a few pieces in that booklet, as well as pieces of artwork within the mod- ule itself, where you were tasked with drawing the tech- nological equipment—the pistols, rifles, grenades, etc. Were you given guidelines on how to make these look fu- turistic, but also not completely obvious as to what they were? You know, to keep the players guessing a little bit?
DL: Well, we had descriptions of what everything kind of looked like, so we would draw things that looked like whatever was being described. Some of it was kind of ambiguous, so it didn’t matter if it was ambiguous, you could kind of do what you wanted. But yes, we purposely were trying to make it look unobvious as to its function. Even to somebody today, to look at it and know whether
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
it was, you know, “Gee, is this a healing spray, or is this a mace, or is this going to shoot out a dart if I squeeze this trigger?” So yeah, it was meant to be unobvious, defi- nitely. Because, you know... (laughs) You don’t want your players looking at it and going, “Yeah, I know, that’s a blaster.” Of course that’s what it is, but you’re supposed to be a medieval adventurer, you don’t know what a blast- er is. You’ve never seen anything like that. So, you had to even make the player guess, a little bit, if you could.
GG: Was there any kind of back-and-forth between you and the designers? Perhaps Gary himself, saying, “You know, I have this idea, maybe we should tweak this to look a little bit less like this, or little more like this.”
DL: First of all, I never had any talks with Gary on anything I did. Ever. He didn’t come in and ask about what we were doing, or ask to see anything. He was just pretty much hands-off. I think there were some sketches for a lot of that stuff, already. Some rough, rudimenta- ty sketches to give an idea of what some of it would look like. And then, I think some of the things that I had to draw were already drawn by, like, Erol Otus, or somebody, like in an illustration, and then I had to take that and put it in separately as a floating element to show what the item was. But, I think there were some sketches already done, by either the writer or the editor. Maybe even Dave Sutherland.
GG: With respect to sketches, we just learned about one of yours that shows a robot at a recharging station. For some reason it wasn’t used; it was replaced by another image. Do you remember that?
DL: | know the robot. They look kind of similar, right? The two drawings?
GG: Yes, one appears to be more vertically oriented, an the final one was horizontal, or landscape. The sketch version looks like the robot is using an ATM, for lack of a better description. (see picture opposite)
DL: (laughs) I remember that when I had done it, that Dave Sutherland wanted it more heavily shadowed. An so, he took a Sharpie to it, and drew over my drawing. Which, as I look back on that in retrospect, that was kin of a pretty ballsy thing to do, draw on somebody else’s drawing, but I didn’t really care at the time. (laughs) As to there being two different ones, I don’t really recall there being two different ones. I thought there was one ro- bot that was a vertical, and one was a horizontal, an I thought they were both used at one point. But, on a reprint, maybe only one of them was?
GG: The unused sketch is just the robot and the charg- ing station, It’s not the complete scene that ended up in the module as handout #19, where you can also see the entire room around the robot.
DL: Seems to me there was something they didn’t like about it. They must have wanted to see the room that the robot was in. It wasn’t good enough. They didn’t want to see just the robot, they also wanted to see the room. So, when the player walks in, they see this vista, you know, not just the robot, but the surroundings as well. Because that was kind of the idea behind those handouts anyw:
was to give an idea to the player of what, exactly, they're seeing. So, I guess it was important enough to them that they needed to see the whole room, you know?
The final robot is definitely different; it’s squatter and doesn’t have some appendages on the sides. If you look at the taller robot from the sketch, the one arm on the side was added afterwards, for whatever reason. Either they added it in the description or I missed it when I first drew it. I don’t know for sure, but it looks like it turned out the robot was meant to be squatter.
If you look at the second illustration with the squat ro- bot, the room has a lot of gray patterns in it. All those patterns are done with a product, which was a dot pat- tern on a film, and you could peel that dot pattern off and cut it off, and it had a sticky back and you could put it over your illustration, to have an instant grayed area.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
It came in different sizes of dots, and dots per inch, so you could get a really fine or scattered dot pattern. They even had patterns that looked like flakes, and there was a gtadient pattern. That illustration had a lot of that in it. All the different grays in there are different dot patterns from those sheets. That stuff was called Zip-A-Tone. In- stant tone, so you didn’t have to go in there and do a wash with gray ink. It reproduced better—if you do a wash with gray ink you don’t have as much control over the way it reproduces.
GG: I’m glad you didn’t have to do all those dots by hand!
DL: Believe it or not, when I first started, I'd look at comics and see there’s a dot pattern and go, “Wow, some- body’s got a really steady hand.” I tried to do that and I'd be like, “I can’t believe those people are that good, with dots and a pen!” (laughs) Then I found out it was that stuff, Zip-A-Tone.
There is also a technique called stippling where you do your own shading with dots, you do dot-dot-dot-dot, you know, spending an hour shading by doing dots. There’s stuff they do not make any more called stipple board. You'd take a grease pencil, and the board had a raised stippled pattern, and you'd rub over it with a grease pen- cil and it would bring out the dots. You’d use the pencil to color the texture.
GG: When you heard this module would have a large, separate booklet of illustrations, what was the reaction? “Wow, cool, that’s going to be exciting to tackle,” or was it, “Oh my gosh, that’s a ton of work. How are we going to get this done?”
DL: I remember that some of us thought it would be boring, because you're not getting any action shots. You're getting, “This is what you see, this robot sitting here. This is what you see, a guy that looks like he’s in a karate stance.” That’s just boring. There’s no action going on, There’s no interaction with the characters. There’s no fight scene. There’s nothing. There’s just static things. We kind of didn’t like it in those terms, because it just wasn’t exciting to do.
GG: When you say boring or unexciting, do you mean, for youas the artist, or from the players’ perspective, see- ing these things?
DL: I think both. As artists—well, at least some of us, not everybody there—we played the game, so we knew what was kind of cool to look at, right? What do I want to see? If I don’t want to see it, then why would anybody
else want to see it? (laughs) So yeah, we were kind of like, “Ehh, I don’t know how well this is going to go over, because it’s kind of blah.”
GG: When $3 was released, did you hear about the reac- tion from consumers?
DL: As far as the illustrations are concerned, no, we didn’t know what the reaction was for that. I mean, we knew the reaction was that people liked the idea of this technology coming in—something from outer space, something that wasn’t Earthbound. That was kind of a new idea everybody liked. But, as far as whether peo- ple liked or disliked the illustrations, we had no idea. We didn’t get feedback on that stuff.
GG: That’ surprising.
DL: Nobody ever came to us and said, “Hey, everybody really liked this, that, or the other thing that you guys drew, or mapped out,” or whatever. Or, “We got a good response on the look of the thing”? We never got any feedback like that at all. Nobody ever showed us letters, or said, “Hey, phone calls came in.” Nothing. Zero.
GG: Well, I can tell you that when I got this module when I was 12 years old, I was floored. It was the first one I saw with a whole other booklet with all these cool pictures.
DL: (laughs) I’m not sure that this predates Tomb of Hor- rors.
GG: Tomb of Horrors definitely came first, but S3’s illus- tration booklet is much larger. I was intrigued by the sci- fi angle and getting an extra booklet just seemed like an incredible value.
DL: Yeah, that’s true, although Tomb of Horrors and C1: The Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan had those, too. Although, I don’t think it was separate there, was it? It was just in- side the module, where it had depictions of the things
the players see.
GG: Starting with the second printing of Barrier Peaks, there were two monster illustrations that got swapped out. There was Jeff Dee’s squealer and your gasbat. These only appeared in the first printing, and then were teplaced by different illustrations done by Erol Otus. Do you remember why that occurred? Out of all the illustra- tions in this booklet, why were two of them changed?
DL: No. I don’t know why they did anything like that. The gasbat might have been changed out because Erol had done an illustration for Dragon magazine, and they
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
thought they wanted to swap it in for some reason. May- be it was more representational of what it was supposed to look like? Could be.
GG: Your original definitely looks more like a bat—you know, a fat, hairy bat—whereas Erol’s is a little wispier, where you can actually see all the gas leaking out of it.
DL: Right. It’s been a long time since I’ve seen those illustrations, but I do recall the gasbat, for sure. And, I liked Erol’s much better. I like Erol’s everything much better. (laughs)
GG: You all sat together in an art room, right? When a project like this came down, where many artists were involved, how did things get assigned?
DL: Jim Roslof, who was the Art Director, would get the art orders from the editor, and then he would just divvy them up. He goes, “Okay, you have these three illustra- tions, you have these two, you have these five. You have the cover, you have the back cover. You have the maps.” That’s how it would be done. It’s not like we sat around in a room and decided on who was going to do what. He just divvied them out as he saw fit. So, he had total con- trol over who did what.
Now, occasionally, you would have a writer or an edi- tor that would specifically ask for a specific artist to do something. But, that didn’t happen all that often. It was just every now and again.
GG: Was there ever any horse trading between the art- ists? “I’m not really feeling this one. I'll swap you.”
DL: Yes, occasionally somebody would get something, and they'd go, “Hey, you know what, I really want to work on that project instead. Do you mind if I take that one, and you can take this one?” So yes, there were times when covers, or maps, or illustrations would be swapped out. Like, I think, especially when it came to the book Deities & Demigods, there were particular things that some of the artists wanted to do, for sure. Jeff Dee really want- ed to do Egyptian stuff, and Erol really wanted to do the Cthulhu stuff. So, occasionally there would be stuff like that, where there was a passion that somebody had for something in particular.
GG: Do you have any other recollections on Expedition to the Barrier Peaks, or anything else you'd like to mention?
DL: You know, I really like the cover on that. I always like Erol’s colors. The cover was black with Erol’s illus- tration in the center, and I really like that black bordering
all that illustration, and then the type kind of jumps out. Tt was a cooler-looking cover than a lot of them. It’s just that black, I think, that did it, with the vibrant colors of Erol’s.
I liked doing it just because it was kind of a sci-fi thing. I liked sci-fi a lot. I never read any fantasy, really, I was more of a hardcore science fiction reader. So, to do something sci-fi was kind of a cool thing.
GG: Did you ever get to play through it?
DL: No. No, in fact, I never played through anything that TSR ever put out. (laughs)
GG: Oh, my gosh.
DL: Not to my recollection, unless, you know, somebody DMing, like Zeb Cook, or Keith Parkinson, or somebody decided to plop something in there. Keith decided at one point to run some games for the art department, so every few days we would sit down at lunch and he’d run a sce- nario for us. And then, he’d run at Gen Con, too. So, I played in a couple of Gen Cons. He’d run those for his sons.
Well, I guess I'll take that back a little bit. Rob Kuntz was my roommate for a while, and some of the stuff that he had come up with and had published, I assume, was in his dungeon, too. So, that’s probably the closest I got to actually playing any specific product that TSR ever put out. But, no, never played any of their modules.
GG: Is that something you're interested in doing now, at a convention, or privately?
DL: Well, you know, it’s funny. You read some of this stuff, like Tomb of Horrors, and you go, “Holy God, how can anybody get through this thing? I don’t want to do that.” (laughs) I don’t want to play, you know, something where I know I’m going to die. And I think, even Expedi- tion to the Barrier Peaks was a little bit like that, too, because you've got robots and ray guns, and those are kind of tough things to come up against. It’s almost like being on Gamma World. And, come to think of it, that’s kind of what its genesis was. I hadn't really thought about that in a long time, but if I remember right, I think there was talk of this being like a Gamma World and D&D mixed together.
GG: Thank you, Diesel! This is great stuff.
DL: Sute. You're welcome.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
CHAPTER TWO
S3: Expedition to the Barrier Peaks Original Publication
he retail version of S3: Expedition to the Barrier Peaks was released in 1980, and eventually went through a total of seven printings. It was billed as a “deluxe set,” one of the first TSR modules to feature a “double cover” of maps as well as a large, separate book of illus- trations/player handouts. This volume includes scans of
complete first and second printings.
The adventure text and maps didn’t change much over the various printings. Clarifications were made to the de- scriptions of the various types of ship lighting (page 2), underlines were added for emphasis (pages 3 and 17), and various housekeeping updates were made to the module’s title, cover text, promo star, and TSR’s compa- ny name, logo, and expanding product roster. References to the adventure’s location in the “World of Greyhawk” became the “World of Greyhawk™ fantasy setting,” and the Level V map had one small upgrade: the addition of helpful “Trapdoor” and “Bulkhead Wall” labels.
Alterations made to the illustration booklet and how the handouts were keyed, done after the first printing, were more significant. Jeff Dee’s squealer (#41) and Diesel La- Force’s gasbat (#46) were replaced by new versions drawn by Erol Otus, and a sequencing error in the original— where handout #45 was never properly referenced, and the references to ensuing handouts were off by one—was
corrected. TSR renumbered handout #45 to #44a, added a reference to it on page 16, and starting with the new Otus gasbat reduced each handout number by one.
Nearly 40 years later while working on this volume it was interesting and, frankly, fun, to uncover some inconsist- encies with the (admittedly complex) maps. When com- paring the ship’s cross section to the individual levels— which essentially involved putting crosshairs on the level maps to find their exact centers, and counting lots of squares—it’s apparent the diameter of the lake doesn’t always mesh, and the trapdoors from level IV to V don’t align perfectly. The drop tubes on Level II have extra open spaces in their walls, and on Level V are missing their doors. The placement of the tubes and lifts on the various levels varies a bit, too, perhaps creating a “Won- ka-vator” effect for their users who expect a perfectly
vertical ride!
Most of these inconsistencies were corrected in the re- drawn maps for our fifth edition conversion. Some of the map complexity obviated any fixes—thus the tubes and lifts on Level IV and the trapdoors on Level V re- tain their original placement!—but the drop tube doors were corrected and the various tubes, machinery, and lifts on the other levels were aligned by nudging them over a square or two where necessary.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARMATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 8-12 by Gary Gygax
This module was the official DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Tournament scenario at Origins Il. The author wishes to express his thanks to Mr. Robert Kuntz who contributed substantial ideas for the various encounters herein. This version has been care- fully revised and updated to conform to ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS™. Included herein are background information for players, statistics for a party substantially the same as that used for the tournament, OM notes, six level maps with encounter matrices, and numerous full color illustrations of scenes from the adventure in order to enhance the enjoyment of participants. There are also many new and special monsters designed for this scenario, and they appear no- where else. This module is located upon the Map of the World of Greyhawk (WORLD OF GREYHAWK from TSR)
If you enjoy this module, be sure and try any of the many other unique offerings in this line from TSR!
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. © 1980 TSR Games
TSR Games POB 756 LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
PRINTED IN USA
ISBN 0-935696-14-8 9033
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons™ Special Dungeon Module *S3 EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
PREFACE
This module was begun early in 1976 when TSR was contem- plating publication of a science fantasy role playing game. Jim Ward had already shown us some rough notes on META- MORPHOSIS ALPHA; | thought it would be a splendid idea to introduce Jim's game at Origins II, and introduce the concept to D&D players by means of the tournament scenario. | laid out the tournament from old “Greyhawk Castle” campaign material involving a spaceship, and Rob Kuntz helped meto populate the tuined vessel. Both this scenario and METAMORPHOSIS ALPHA Proved successful, but while the latter has been continually available since mid-1976, only a few copies of the tournament dungeon used for Origins IIhave been around. METAMORPHOSIS ALPHA is currently being rewritten and expanded for amajornew edition, and GAMMA WORLD is highly popular too. As this module offers a unique and challenging blend of fantasy and science fantasy role playing, it seemed logical to reintroduce it to the public. What could be more logical than to make available a scenario which blends the two role playing approaches into a single form? Now, as revised to fit ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, THE EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS will serve as both an exciting insertion into yourcampaign andasa primeron howto combine “science” into your fantasy role playing. |hope that you will enjoy reading and playing it as much as | enjoyed writing it!
WORLD OF GREYHAWK MAP LOCATION: The mountains north- west of the city of Homwood in the Grand Duchy of Geoff.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The Grand Duchy of Geoff has recently been plagued by a rash of unusually weird and terrible monsters of unknown soit. This westem area, particularly the mountain fastness which separates the GrandDuchyfromtheDry Steppes, has long been renowned for the generation of the most fearsome beasts, and it has been shunned accordingly — save for a handful of hardy souls with exceptional abilities and sufficient wealth to build stout strongholds toward oftthe attacks ofthe predatory creatures infesting the rugged lands thereabout. Within the last few months, however, a walled town not far distant from the area, and four small fortresses as well, were destroyedby mysterious attacks! The remaining barons and lords have Preserved in brine several paitially decomposed corpses found on or near the sites of the ravaging. While these strange bodies are assumed to have belonged to the forces which were responsible for the destruction, the remains were too fargone to leam anything other than they were of creatures heretofore unknown to even the wisest sages of Geoff. The urgent pleaforaid which accompanied these gruesome corpses could not be ignored, and the Grand Duke acted immediately. Choosing several of his doughtiest henchmen to lead the expedition, he called upon the other powers of the state to likewise furnish their minions for the expedition as well. Thus, the Society of the Magivestre, the Fellowship of the Blinding Light, the Magsmen’s Brotherhood, and the High Lord of Elvendom (atHocholve) also selected the bravest of adventurers and equipped them accordingly to accompany the expedition as their representa- tives. A total of 15 have assembled beneath the pennonedturets of the Grand Duke's mighty castle near Gorna.
There it was learned that several unconfirmed reports have related that monsters have been disgorgedfroma gated caveat random intervals. The entrance to this place is high upon a rocky face, and sheathed in armor. This protection has purportedly frustrated all attempts to explore the space beyond the metal valve — although several search parties have entirely dis- appeared, so it is possible they entered but never returned. Your
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
expedition must find out exactly what this caves, what is causing the monsters to come forth, who is responsible, and how to prevent future incursions. In addition, any other information regarding this mysterious locale, its strange denizens, magical devices, or unusual weaponry is highly desirable. His High Radiance, OwenIil, has assured allofthe concemed parties that whatever information is gained will be given to all, and wealth found will be shared according to the contribution each individual orrepresentative group makes tothe overall success of the expedition. If necessary, the Grand Duke has vowedto send forth an army to lay waste to the offending place and extinguish every living thing therein. Should your expedition not meet with total success, this step will be considered, but His High Radiance personally doubts such extreme measures will be required considering the strength of the expedition and the ability of its members. The Grand Duke feels assured that you will certainly locate the person or thing responsible for the troubles plaguing Geoff and eliminate him, her, or it from the face of the land.
Your panty set forth from Gorna a sennight ago, and for the past two days have been climbing higher into the crags of the Barrier Peaks. Last night was spent in the keep of the only Baron remaining in the area — and he was fulsome glad for your company. This morning, as the eastern horizon tumed from pear! gray to rosy pink, a score of the Baron's retainers guided the expedition towards the unknown area. It is now affemoon, and you have set up camp in a hidden dell but a few bowshots from the strange entrance. The men-at-arms have been detailed to guard the supplies and mounts at the camp while you go onward immediately. They will await your retum for four full days before returning to the keep. Gathering your personal gear, you are now climbing the steep slopeofthe dell’s north side, passing the rim, and forcing yourway through a dense gowthoftrees and undergrowth. There, across a field and beyondarockyrise, awaits adventure. . . .
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER ONLY
After your players have had a chance to digest the background information, have them order the partyinthe manner they desire — typical open field order, 20’ corridor order, and 10’ corridor order. Iftheyare totake the personae of thecharacters originally used, pass out sheets so they may record the data. Each Participant can play the role of one, two, or even three of the characters. Do not be surprised if one or more of the better Players are suspicious of what they are about to get into, for the disceming will have noted the hints given in the introduction.
Be certain that you are quite familiar withthe entire module, and read each encounter section carefully. Be sure to display the illustrations at the appropriate time, and allow players to view them as long as they like — just keep track ofthe minutes and rack off rounds accordingly. Ship lighting generally remains completely functional. Some cortidors are not lit, and these are screened, as are any other areas where the light has failed. Certain areas are lightly screened; these are sections where the lighting is very dim. White. areas have full lighting, but rooms are lit only when a panel beside the door is touched. Thus:
screened areas = no light
lightly screened areas = dim light, 60’ vision range
unscreened areas = bright light
EXCEPTION: all tween decks areas are unlit, level IV has
altemating light and dark periods.
Scale is 10’ per square and shown on the level maps. Ceiling height variations are likewise shown thereon. Doors and hatchways need special attention, for they require color cards to function, so standard door symbols can not be employed, and care must be taken to correctiy recaff which letter code represents which order of card. The letter symbols for doors (or color of card to activate a deck hatchway) are:
gray card
ted card yellow card orange card violet card brown card jet black card
Whenever the party approaches a standard door, display ILLUSTRATION #14. There are some doors which will open merely by pressing upon the panel beside them. and such portals are indicated by the standard door symbol. Open doors are shown as: -{_ +. Drop chutes are described in the matrix to level |. The UP side is always towards the ship's hull, the DOWN is always towards the interior; this is coded “U” and “D” respectively. Drop chutes with full anti-gravity are coded with the letter “A” in the center, and these tubes are brightly lit. Those in which the anti- gravity is NOT functioning, but in which the grasp handles still move are coded with theletter"G” in the center (to indicate that gravity is in effect); these tubes are only dimly lit. Non-functioning drop chutes are coded with the letter "N": they have no anti- gravity nor do their handles move, and they are completely dark. Drop chutes are illustrated on the map thus:
oe <O0<27O ooonnnn
oO u BS B (N) (A) vAD oGu fi cj 2 z
south north west east
ILLUSTRATION #2 illustrates a typical tube. Note that the illustration shows a sealed sphincter above, indicating that the level above is sealed off. (Inthis case, ofcourse, the level above is gone, when this module of the ship was blasted free in the cataclysm which destroyed the vessel.) Similar closing devices will be noted by users of a drop tube, but the mechanisms will be open. Important note: Small, broad doors will be noticeable in the drop tube between levels | and III and IV and VI. These are access doors to the ‘tween decks areas. They are keyed to BROWN cards.
All radiation areas are matrixed with the numerals 43 regardless of level, except on level IV where no hazard exists. Each matrix includes a key describing the effects ofexposure to this radiation.
Cross hatched areas ‘tween decks are areas of possible danger from generators and other equipment. These dangers are described in the appropriate places.
Thejaggedarea oflevelll (‘tween decks area) is a hole blastedin the deck, andthere is a corresponding area marked onthemap for level Ill which indicates where this opening occurs in the overhead. See the appropriate matrix for details.
Be certain to employ the illustrations as indicated — or whenever Players are in an area with a graphic depiction and request to be shown the illustration again.
Emphasize the strange flora and fauna on level lV and then show themthe appropriate illustrations! It is also important to note that the lighting on this levelis an exception to the standard. The entire level will ight up for 44 hours and then go dark for 7, ie. the lights go out suddenly andreturn 42 turns later. Keeptrack ofentrytime and turns within the ship!
COLORED CARDS
Each of these cards are rectangular bits of nearly indestructible Plastic about three inches long by two inches wide. Since characters should not be aware of the actual nature of the different technological itemsfound on the ship, descriptionshave been provided for most ofthe unusual items that they might find.
Colored cards will appear as heavily leaded panes of colored glass. No clues to their function should be given, as the characters must figure out their proper use. While some colors are specific, most willserveto open doors to areaswhich arekeyedto: lesser rank color. The colors are given below, with descending order of rank and general description of the rank/occupation- profession of holder each was designed for. Note that robots and androids will note color bymeansoftheirvisual sensors, provided the card is held forth ina manner which enabkes the scanning of its surface.
GRAY ship commander and top officials RED police/security officials
YELLOW’ — medical officers
ORANGE security personnel
VIOLET technicians
BROWN crew and maintenance workers JET BLACK — passengers/colonists
“Yellow cards will not trigger orange entry locks.
To trigger an entry, the card is slipped into the proper slot and whenthe door/access opens, thecardis droppedintothereturn. Animproper card triggers an alarm, alow buzzing sound, and the card is held by the lock.
THE SPACESHIP
Sometime else, a large exploration-colonization expedition of human origin was overtaken in the course of its journey by a deadly plague. In a vain effort to halt the spread of the virus, the modular sections of the vessel were sealed and then separated, each left to its own fate. The section concerned here was drawn through a black hole and spewed into the universe where the World of Greyhawk exists. Chance brought it to that vety planet, and its computers and robotics brought it to an intact landing.
This process, however, caused an earth tremor, and a landslide buried the ship section for several decades. Then a computer malfunction sent worker robots to a cargo hatch to discharge material, and when these robots found the hatch blocked by fallen earth and stone, they promptty clearedit and unloaded the requisite cargo — unfortunately for the inhabitants of the area, for the holds contained various alien fauna and flora, and the offloading freed these creatures from stasis. Some died immediately, some lived for a time, and a few species prospered and propagated,
Recently, another earthquake uncovered an upper air lock, and the tremor caused the same computer malfunction, so the worker robots again cleared the lower cargo lock and period- ically discharged more of the unwanted “goods”
START: The expedition has just topped the rise and gained their first view of the metal doored “cave”. At this point SHOW PLAYERS ILLUSTRATION #3 which depicts the hillside where erosion has exposed two doors — a small upper door (through which the patty must enter), anda large lower cargo hatch (which will open ‘only when the party is inside and certain conditions prevail). WHENEVER THE PARTY APPROACHES FOR THE FIRST TIME THE SMALL DOOR WILL BE OPEN. It will remain open for six full tums (4 hour); it will then close for 20 hours and reopen for anothersixtums.Asthe men-at-arms will wait exactly four days, the party had better be on its toes and not too timid.
Entry is from the south side of fhevessel. When the party enters they will see a metalroom, about 18’ deep and 20’ wide, with a. curving south (rear) wall. At that moment, the outer door will silentlyshut, and the 20’ wide inner door will part to reveal the 60’ by 60’ entry area with drop tube (non-functioning) to the lower levels. The “V" doors inside and flanking the airlock (andthe oneto the farnorth as well) are access to the space suit storage racks — as well as. emergency means of entry/egress to the air lock. Naturally, the party will not be able to utilize these portals without a violet or higher level color card.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY TO LEVEL I: OFFICIALS, OFFICERS, AND TECHNICIANS QUARTERS
‘WANDERING MONSTERS: Encounter occurs 1 in 12, check each turn.
‘SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE:
4. 9-46 “vegepygmies” with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4) 2. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
3. 2-3 displacer beasts
4. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6)
5. lurker above
6. 9-16 “vegepygmies” with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4)
Vegepygmies, Police and worker robots are detailed below.
NORTHERN HEMISPHERE:
4. worker robot
2. 14-24 “vegepygmies” (ILLUSTRATION #7) 3. 2-5 shadows
4. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
5. 14-24 “vegepygmies” (ILLUSTRATION #7) 6. 1-2 will-o'-wisps
NOTE: Whenever the party is before a door use ILLUSTRATION #4 The metal around the upper slot willbe colorkeyed, ifapplicable.
DROP TUBES: As previously noted, these four devices are in different states of functioning. Each tube is a cylinder with an opening on both sides. Inside are two tracks opposite each other, running down the vertical length oftheshaft.Each trackhas a series of handles spacedeight feet apart. One of these tracks will be moving up and the other will be moving down in all tubes that are operational. Use ILLUSTRATION #2 to aid in describing the drop tubes. In those which anti-grav still functions, the individual need only step in, float weightlessty, and grasp a passing handle to be borne in whichever direction is desired. At the top and bottom of the tube the handles fold into the wall to complete a circuit. In the non-operational tube, of course, the handles do notmove atall, butthey will support upto 400pounds of weight. The tube which still functions mechanically, but which has no anti-gravity, can be used if the characters firmly grasp a handle priorto stepping into the chute; ifany character attempts to step into the tube and then grasp a handle, allow a base 10% chance of success, +5% for each point of dexterity above 6. Failure equals a fall which will almost certainly prove fatal from the: upper level, allowing 106 for each 10’ of vertical distance fallen.
UNNUMBERED ROOMS: These rooms are typically apartments, activity rooms (those with doors which require no color card) and utility/maintenance/storerooms. Unless noted by a number code each such area is thoroughly looted, has some jumbled furniture or rotting goods therein, and from 0-3 (d4, 4=0) inanimate skeletons of generally human appearance. Everything is worthless or in bad condition, the furnishings plastic or metal, and only bits of rag or odd pieces ofjunk can be found.
DINING ROOMS: The twolarge ones tothewesthavemesstables and were cafeteria-like places. The three smaller ones to the east werefor the higher-ups, and they contained tables and chairs. All five of these areas are now in ruins. The furnishings are jumbled, and there are quite a number of skeletons and bones strewn about. They have nothing of value within them.
KITCHENS: Everything which was possibly useful and not bolted down has been removedfrom these areas. However, there are still computer operated food dispensers as indicated in each kitchen. Each kitchen will have some bare counterspace anda number of unused trays about. Along one wall isa bench with a number of metal boxes resting onit. Each box has a dark colored glass door in the front of it and arranged beside these are a Number ofsquare metal plates (selector buttons).On topofeach box isa short, black cylinder (temperature control knob). inside each boxare a number of shelves spaced close together. Along
other walls are a fine metal mesh (microphone/speaker grille) with a rivet (call button) below it. Next to these is a long, narrow door that opens to a small shet-like compartment. Near the entrance is a dark glass plate with fourrivets belowit. (This was the daily menu screen. The rivetswere control buttons for it. The menu screen no longer works.) Iffoodis dispensed, it willbe servedina compartmented tray of a horn-like material (plastic). There is a 20% chance that each machine that is tried will serve. There are eight per kitchen, and not less than two will function, but one of the functioning machines has a 50% chance of dispensing poisonous food. If pygmies are encountered in a kitchen area they will gain +2 on “to hit” and on damage due totheirferocious reaction at seeing their food supply threatened. At least one will immediately returnto their home area and gatherthe whole tribe to do battle.
GAME ROOMS: These rooms originally housed various amuse- ment devices of mechanical and electronic nature. The mechanical ones have been broken and looted, but the electronic ones are still functional. Ifthe party members have any of the coinage used on the ship they can get rid of it here “shooting” at spaceships, monsters, etc. You may optionally include any sort of gambling devices you wish here — slot machines, black jack, etc. How you run such games is strictly up toyou. Describe machines as brightly colored boxes with various slots, buttons, wheels, weapons, etc. as component parts. There are also several standard shooting gallery games here. These include guns with handles bolted to tables, others with cables coming out of them, and other various things like this. Players should be told that they are mysterious metal shaped objects unless they have found such weapons or have encountered creatures using them. In this case, they should be told they see More objects similar to those they have already seen. If any character spends a tum or more practicing with these shooting galleries, trying to learn how to handle them (this should be specifically stated), they may be allowed a -4 on their die rolls on the charts when attempting to learn howto use a similarweapon.
LOUNGES: These areas were once very posh and comfortable, but they are now messy. There are tom easy chairs, small tables broken and overturned, broken dink and snack dispensers, tubble and ashes from fires, bones and skulls, and some few personal items in the deep folds oflounge furniture lost during the lastfew hectic days before the plague took everyone. Rolla dé for each lounge area searched. Check once only. The treasure found will be:
4 — notes on escaped intellect devourer (level Il)"
2 — 1-3 ampules of serum which will cure any disease if injectea’*
3 — 1 piece of jewelry worth 300 - 1,800 g.p.
4 — 3 pieces of jewelry worth 1,000 - 4,000 g.p. each
jet black card
6 — violet or orange card (50%/50%)
“must use comprehend languages to understand; it will detail where the creature has been confined; after the first 1 is rolleda brown card will be found thereafter
**70% potent, 20% neutral, 10% poison
MEETING ROOMS: These areas contain various long, fixedtables, chairs, broken communications panels (bent metal and broken witing), and many skeletons, There is nothing of value, and anything loose has been taken away.
RECREATION AREA: This room was for various group participation games and similar activities. The equipment and furniture is now destroyed or taken. There are many piles of litter and skeletons in the place. The patty can spend many turns searching here and find absolutely nothing useful.
MEDICAL AREAS: The main records office and examination clinic is in the central complex square. A robotic recording instructs anyone entering to come back tomorrow, as all personnel are absent; emergency cases can report to MED 4 or MED 2 for
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
attention. All of this will be in a totallyincomprehensible language unless a translation device or spell is used. There are three undisturbed desks here, and a careful search has a 10% chance Per round of tuming up a yellow card, but as soon as a desk is touched an alarm will sound, and a police robotwill appearin 1- 4 rounds thereafter. This will only happen once. Other equipment in the place is either non-functioning or of small value — chairs, 2 wheeled cots, examination tables, etc.
MED 4: USE ILLUSTRATION #8. This is an emergency treatment toom with a female android nurse. She will auto- matically treat any wounded human who enters, using a healing spray which will repair 2-24 hit points of damage. The device has five charges left. If asked, the android nurse will give an injection which will cure disease, neutralize poison, or counter radiation poison- ing — any of which will be effective within 3 turns of affliction. Note that requests must be in a language understandable to the android, mainly the language of the ship. If attacked the android will not fight back nor summon any aid.
MED 2: USE ILLUSTRATION #9. This is the emergency operating room, and a malfunctioning male android surgeon is on hand to “greet” anyone entering. The android has an 18/01 strength, and it will attempt to grapple, anesthetize, and operate upon whomever is grabbed first. Ifit overpowers any creature, it will anesthetize him or her and begin operating in a single round. The second round will kill the victim. As with all androids it is: AC 3, move 15”, 35 hit points, #AT 2, D 1-8 (with no weapon). It attacks as a 7 hit dice monster. Acid and fire do half damage, lightning (and similar electrical attacks) not saved against will short the android out. At 7 or less hit points there is a 50% chance/round that it will cease functioning.
LABORATORIES: These rooms were the special research facilities for biological, biochemical, and chemical projects related to alien life forms, and eventually were used to stop the plague aboard. Those labs without color card keyed doors are general purpose work areas, and they contain nothing of value or interest except some empty plastiglass retorts, beakers, petri dishes, vials, etc. There are a few smallish cages for animals (which now contain nothing but bones), work counters, and the like.
LAB a: This room contains a lab technician worker robot still at work, vainly attempting to find a serum to cure the Plague which wiped out the ship’s human population a century or so ago. (The virus which was the cause ofit all died out itself when the last of the human hosts died.) If the party displays a yellow card (or one ofhigher order) they can help themselves to anything in the place. On a counter top are 2 ampules of poison antidote, 3 of disease cure, and a cannister of healingspray (2412 hit points of damage healed per charge, 3 charges left), see the end of this module. If no proper color card is shown, the party interferes with the robot's work, or they. attack the robot or are destructive, the worker will broadcast a high frequency top-security-priority alarm which will bring 1-3 police robots in 1-4 melee rounds,
LAB b: This room was a special hydroponic culture lab. All of the old cultures are dead, but spores of russet mold (see end section) still linger in the place. If any use of a computer console has been made priorto entering lab b the computer malfunction factorwill have caused it to pump nutrient solution into the tanks to feed the supposed culture. Thus, the room will be packed full of russet mold. In this case, when any doorto the place is opened, an avalanche of the stuff will pour over the 10’ square (100 square feet) area outside; everyone covered by the stuff or within 3’ of it, must save versus Poison or become Irradiated and be a mold culture
medium. The victims will die in 2-5 turns, but within 21-24 hours a vegepygmy creature will arise from the mess (it will not recall any other existence, and it will be hostile to anything other than its own kind), Those saving versus Poison will take 5d4 hit points of damage from the stuff.
LAB c: Anumber of chemicals are stored here. Most chemicals ‘are no longer active or have no use to those ignorant of chemistry. There are 20 of each sort of container mentioned to experiment with. A few have the following uses: 3rd bottle of white powder — defoliant which causes 1- 410 hit points of damage to vegetable life forms (ie. shambling mounds, treants, etc.) or will absolutely wipe out a 10’ square area of vegetation; a total of 10 handfuls of powder are in the bottle
2nd, 7th, and 9th bottles — these are clear fluid acids which cause 3d4 hit points of damage when spilled cover any living creature
5th jar of green powder — highly poisonous chemical which must be saved against at -1 if touched, -5 if tasted
20th jar of pink powder — contains 36 doses of a chemical which will enable a human to have infravision to a 90' range for 6 tums
Ast large ceramic bottle — holds a greenish fluid which will Cause plants to grow (add 2-8 hit points per application to vegetable life forms, otherwise it will act as a plant growth in a 10’x10' area, ifentire bottle is used, 20 applications in the container); the vege- Pygmies will consider this a great treasure and attack to get it for its odor will drive them to a frenzy at 30°
2nd large ceramic container — this is lined with a special material, for it contains an acid which will eat through deck metal in 4 turn; the entire contents will eat away a 10’ diameter section ofthe deck. Only one deck will be dissolved. If the acidis used as aweapon it will cause 3-18 points of damage thefirst round, 2-12 points the second round, and 1-6 points on the third ‘and final round.
All bottles are made of glass unless otherwise specified.
LIBRARY: This place is not in terrible shape because there is nothing in it to interest the vegepygmy folk — the worst looters, of course. It holds many smalll, fixed tables, comfortable chairs, and 24 microfilm viewers. The microfilm storage cabinets are sealed and maintained by the computer. One viewer in sixis operational and will show something if the switch is thrown and the character looks into the viewing section. For two full turns a viewer will show either totally unintelligible writing and diagrams (alien + technical), views of stars, planets, and other similar things, or pictures of alien life forms (none of which are useful as they are not included in the kinds taken aboard). Aftertwo tums, there is a one in six chance that the viewer will begin showing schematics of ship levels |, III, and V. All of the viewers operate at afastrate,so when these appear describe the scene as a circular form with many lines, marks, and colors upon it. Allow 6 questions and about one minute of explanation per level. After showing each level there is a one in six chance of the viewer breaking, and after showing the V level it will positively break. Only one of the viewers will show levels.
Beneath one table is a skeleton of a human. It has rags of what was obviously a uniform, with braid and colorful attachments (medals and ribbons) which will clue the inquisitive character that the wearer was an important person. There is a sealed cabinet behind this skeleton, and a comer of a gray card is Peeping out from beneath this storage box; but only ifthe cabinet is being carefully examined, or the area within 10’ of the skeleton is minutely searched will the card be discovered. There are only 3 other (unremarkable) skeletal remains in the whole place.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
POLICE H@: USE ILLUSTRATION #30. There will be 1-3 policerobots in the first room ofthis complex. They will inquire what the nature of business of any entrant is, and the language will be totally unintelligible without some scientific or magical means of understanding, although the robots can translate the characters’ speech in 1 tum. The robots will then apprehend (see section on police robots attheendofthemodule) thecharacters and place them in the security cells (six 10’x 10’roomstothenorth) — asfew per cell as possible — for detention and questioning by a “proper authority” unless the party has a red, gray or orange card to show. Of course, there are no “proper authorities" anymore, and Prisoners will starveto death, asthe computer controlled feeding devices in the area turn out drinkable liquids but indigestible food. The cell locks (located in the doors) operate by any of the cards mentioned (gray, red, or orange). The cells have walls on three sides while acrossthe frontthere is a row ofshort projecting studs on both the top and the bottom. In the centerofthis “wall” is a small post with a card lock similar to those found on other doors. Below this is a button and a dial that control the force screen. When a cell is in use, the force screen will be turned on and an invisible wall will radiate in the area between the studs. The cells are force field shells, so magic willnot function beyond them, butcoldhas a 10% chance of causing a lock to malfunction, fire balls (from outside and distant, hopefully . ) and magic missiles have a 50% chance, and lightning/electricity a 10% chance per die of damage. The robots will not take away any gear from prisoners unless the item was used to attack one oftheir number or is a weapon they are familiar with (pistols, etc.).
Atvarious times robots will leave, so at some point within 12 turns there will be only 1 robot there, but there is a 1 in 12 chance of another entering each tum.
Alocked metal chest in the corner farthest fromthe cells contains 2 gas masks (give total immunity to all gasses on the ship), 12 sleep gas grenades, and 2 needler pistols with 1 clip of ammunition for each. (Weapons are detailed at the end ofthe module.) The chest can be forced open with magical weapons — one in six chance per weapon per round of forcing. It will also open by gray or red card placement in its lock slot.
The first police robot disabled/destroyed here by the party will have ared card stored in its chest compartment, but it willhave to be pried out carefully, so there is a 50% chance of destroying it, lowered 10% for each point of dexterity above 14 ofthe character making the attempt.
South Room: Note that this area can be entered only by a red color card. It is the office of the former chief security officer. Use ILLUSTRATION #40 to depict the room and ILLUSTRATION #44 to illustrate the console. His uniformed skeleton still sits behind the desk, but it has nothing —card or weapon. Built intothe desk is a monitoring screen with an off-on switch, a 56 position slider (each former levelofthe ship —positions 14-46 now show levels EVI of this module), and three dials (100s, 10s, 4s) which show specific rooms on each level (and naturally the room key is long since gone). Close up lenses are malfunctioning, so only wide angle views of rooms (or the four comers of areas larger than 50° square) are available. Dark areas have infrared lens viewing, but only one in six of these lenses still function. There is a 1% chance per round, cumulative, that use of the viewer will cause its total malfunction. The room also has the personal locker of the chief. This is locked and can be opened in the same fashion as the metal chest outside. In the locker are:
— the rags of a full dress uniform upon which are several gem encrusted medals (3 pieces of jewelry worth 1,000 - 4,000 gp. each)
— @ blaster pistol on full charge (see section at end of
module) — asuit of powered armor (seesection atendofmodule) that
nad a malfunction which was to be repaired but was not before the disaster wiped out the crew; this armor functions as follows (roll da);
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
normal for 10 rounds, freezes into immobility for 2-12
rounds, and then roll again . short circuits for 346 hit points of damage to wearer (-1 hp. per die foreach +1 of a ring of protection, -1 h.p. per die for a ring of fire resistance); the person must immediately remove the armor, for he or she will sustain like damage each round thereafter, and after 10 rounds the suit will be totally destroyed; removal causes 2-12 h.p. ‘of damage as above. crossed Circuitry causes suit to behave erratically, sothat wearer moves backward on a 1 or 2, sideways ona 3 (left) or 4 (right), falls over on a 5, leaps 10’ ahead on a 6, behaves normally on 7-9, but on 10the built-in laser pistol (tight arm) fires ahead while the armor remains motion- less suit fluid systems ignite and cause a deadly gas to fill the suit, so wearer must save versus poison or die. Ifthe suit is removed, this gas fills the 10’ square area immediately around it, and the next round fills a 20’ radius area, but saves outside the suit are at +4 or +2 at 40! or 20’ radius distance. If a small green cannister is taken from the locker wall, pointed at the suit, and a tab pulled, itwill cover the suit with a foam whichwillinstantly neutralize the gas
STORES: This small central emergency stores compartment is the only stocked room ofits kind on the ship. There are various crates and containers of materials which are totally unrecognizable and unuseable by the party. There are sufficient foodstuffs to equal 100 iron rations packages. There is a packet of 4 each of the following ampules: disease cure, poison antidote, radiation antidote. There are also 14 cannisters of healing spray, but only ‘one in six are still functioning, and those that do function (dé, roll of 1) will have from one to six charges (curing 2-24h.p. per spray). A small brown box with violet labels on it holds a “Repair Robot Remote Control" which can be used to summon and control a worker robot byvocal commands (see end of module). However, each tum of operation has a 2% cumulative chance that the power pack will drain, a blue light on the panel will blink, and in 1- 410 rounds the remote will go dead, Any power disc will reduce chance of failure by 5% per charge in the disc, but it too will eventually drain and the remote will go dead.
XN
2
5
SMALLARMSLOCKER: USE ILLUSTRATION #42. Notethat it requires a gray card to enter. The place is made of plasteel, and itcannot be broken into except with a laser drill. The locker is partially stripped, but still inside are racks and containers of: 10 needler pistols, 8 paralysis pistols, 4 laser pistols, 2 laserrifies, 1 blasterrifie. There are three boxes each containing 20 grenades: sleep, incendiary, and explosive. A fully operational suit of power armor is in aclosed andlockedlocker (at the end of a row of 7opened ones). Alockedmetal chest holds 20 power discs and 20needler clips. (See the section on weapons at the end of the module for details on how to use any weapon and the weapon itself.)
COMPUTER CENTRAL: USE ILLUSTRATION #43. In the center of the room is what appears to be an altar. It is supported by a single metal column and 2 arms are bent towards the door. The wall opposite the door is made entirely of glass, although this is too dark to see through. (This is the viewing screen. The entire wall will show a picture when the master switch is thrown.) There are 3 skeletons sprawled near the altar. in the center of the altar are 6 fist-sized circular windows (dials), 3 coin-sized holes below them (view screen controls), and a single metalbox under these (view screen master switch). To the left ofthese are 10 small blocks set in grooves (sliders), andtotheright are2 rowsofrivets (buttons). The wings of the altar are decorated with panels of small glass squares set in rows (key Consoles). USE ILLUSTRATION #44. This is one of the terminals and is now only in touch with a smaller auxiliary computer. The large master switch will turn on the visual display screen above the control panel, while a mechanical voice will begin to relate what is beingshown and report on the state of the ship in that area — allin analienlanguage, ofcourse. The recessed controls are three buttons: OFF, HOLD, CLOSE-UP.
Pictures flash on and off in 6 seconds (1 segment) There is also .120-key console for input; 8 switches, 10 sliders, 6 dials, and 10 buttons. If any of the buttons, levers, etc. are depressed, moved or whatever, the violet mold culture at Lab b will be fed, and one of the following will result (roll d12):
4. minor fire: automatic system immediately sprays a chemical extinguisher upon it and puts itout.a green lightblinks,anda repair robot will come in 4-3 tums to tepair the damage ship lights brighten/dim: if sleep (dark) periods in progress, the lights will dim again automatically in 4 turn view screen malfunction; green and amber lights blink, indicating repair and police robots are on their way; the screen is out until repaired; both robots due in 4-3 turns cargo displacement/unloading ordered: worker robots discharge cargo (a bulette) while screen displays this activity anti-gravity in control room: treat as reverse gravity for 4 found, then gravity returns (10’ fall for most characters), and computer acts as noted in 4. above close and lock all doors: this is a security alert measure which will bring 4 police robots to the computer centralroomunless 7 of 10 occurs; pink and amber lights flash when the alert occurs unlock doors: security alert cancelled; pink and amber lights go out all power to androids shut off/on all power to worker robots shut off/on 10. all power to police robots shut off/on 44, drop tubes sealed: all power shut off/on for tubes and lifts 12. full alert: all doors and sphincters shut and locked; red lights
flash, alarm sounds at 10 second intervals; sleep gas will be Pumped into the central complex of rooms in 4 round; 4 police robots and 2 worker robots will enter the computer foom in 2-8 rounds; only a gray card slipped into a slotin the console and the action noted in 7. will cancel the alert Once it has been discovered what a particular controlwill do, the control will always have the same results. Any attempt to destroy computer related equipment in this area will result in 12. above, with robots attempting to kill all unidentified creatures without gray of red color cards found in the computer room.
eon
oe
o
~
Om
NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. LURKER ABOVE: AC 6, HD 10, hp 59, #AT 4, D 4-6, smothers all victims in 2-5 rounds (check foreach separately). Surprises 4 in6. The floor beneath the creature is covered with bits ofrags, bones of various creatures, pygmy husks, and a violet card
SMALL REPAIR ROBOT: USE ILLUSTRATION #45. This robot has been battered, and its main circuitry is broken. Small hand tools scattered aroundit can be usedto openitschest plate where 2-5 intact gem bearings con be pried out ata one in six tisk of toking 4-6 hp. electrical discharge damage per gem. Each is worth 50 g.p.
3. POLICEROBOT AREA: USE ILLUSTRATION #46. From 1-6 robots will be in this area, but they will not question any character displaying on orange, red or gray color card. Possession ofa card will not allowcharacters to command the police robots.
a. REPAIR PARTS AREA: There are 12 power discs here amidst numerous parts, and locating them will require five rounds of searching.
b. DISABLED ROBOTS AREA: There are 14 police robotsherein various stages of repair, and a worker will be busily engaged in fixing one. There is nothing of value here.
¢. ARSENAL: There are cases of grenades of all types here, and power discs in locked metal boxes. A dozen ofeach of the three grenade types and power cells are plainly visible on a bench. Any attempt to remove weapons or power cells openly will result in attack by police robots tegardless of color card presented, but whatever can be hidden away can be gained. A police robot will check on
oa
activities within the robot arsenal once every 3rd round!
4, MOTIONLESS FEMALE FORM: This is a seemingly unconscious beautiful human female, but in reality it is a berserk, malfunctioning android — AC 3, 15” move, 36 hit points, 2 attacks/round, 1-8/1-8 without any weapons, attacks as a7 hit dice monster. This servant mechanism is armed with a 2' long metal bar (2-42 h.p. damage) and a paralysis pistol. When any creature comes within 20’ it will spring up and attack twice with the pistol. Thereafter, it will use the bar if opponents are within range, or the pistol otherwise. The paralysis weapon has a full power disc (six charges)
5 DISPLACER BEASTS: AC 4, MV 15”, HD 6, hp 38, 35, 24, 22, 20, #AT 2, D 2-8/2-8. Opponent attacks are -2 on dice; saves versus magical attacks as 4 2th level fighter with bonus of +2 ‘on dice. If there are more than 10 persons in sight, there is a 60% chance that the beasts will flee unless they have been surprised. Once engaged, they willl fight to the death. Amidst the litter of their nest area is a brown color card.
PHASE SPIDERS: These are a dwarf variety: AC 7, MV 6°15", HD 5 -5 (=4), #AT 1, D4-3. Poison of these creatures is full strength (-2 on all saves). There are 3 spiders here, 1 adult and 2 newly hatched; hp: 23, 7, 5. Caught in their webs near the ceiling is a jet block card. In the pool of waterbeneath (which the spiders use as a lure to attract prey, the water coming from a leaking ovethead pipe) are 7 small gem bearings, beryls worth 100 g.p. each
SHIP COMMANDER'S QUARTERS: This five room suite served as the apartment for the commander and his family. Everything therein is disordered from the frantic plague days, but nothing has been looted. The main room is the living room and reception area, with couches, arm chairs, small tables, Paintings, etc. Several skeletons are there also. There is nothing worth looting here.
a. Personal chamber of the commander. Besides his bedroom furniture andeffects there is a small desk. Inside are a full set of cards (jet, brown, violet, yellow, orange, ted) save a gray which is shoved into a stack of papers. The small room to the southeast is a locked closet/ storage area; in it are clothing in fair shape, a needierwith four clips of ammunition, and much worthless junk. The lock works on the commander's hand print. The lavatory cabinet contains two capsules of cyanide (instant death, No save). A locked plasteel security safe in the desk can be opened only by means of lasering the lock mecha- nism for six charges, for the lock was keyed to the thumb print of the commander. Inside are orders regarding the ship's destination and activities, 100 plastic encased diamonds worth 100 gp. each (these are emergency coins), and a packet which will explode for 50 h.p. damage in a 10’ radius if it is opened (opener gets no save, others in the blast radius will). This pocket is also keyed to the commander's thumb print
tad
ba
>»
b. Private lounge and dining area which is nicely furnished ‘and appointed. Allis intact. On a side boardare six crystal flasks of rare spiritous liquors. #4 is now deadly poison (-4 on saves), 42-4 are still excellent and intoxicating (delay party foré fullturns itany oneis sampled!), #Sgivesa +1.0n dexterity reactions for 4 full tun after consumption of 4 ounce (flask holds 20 ounces initially), and #6 tastes excellent but will cause double vision (-2 on attacks, +210 be hit) in 4 turn to anyone tasting it (the effect lasts for 3 turns).
¢. This room is an unremarkable masterbedroom.There are many drawers of clothing and the like, but there is nothing of value here, except that which appears to be a tin spaceship on a table is actually a 1,000 g.p. platinum commendation.
d. This is the personal retreat of the commander's wife. In if are a divan, dressing table, small desk, and several
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
|
|
lounge chairs. A skeleton lies on the divan. Behind the dressing table is a jewelry case with 4 rings (value 2,000, 750, 300, and 50 g.p. respectively), 6 bracelets (2 are worth 41,000 and 600 g.p. respectively), and 3necklaces (one set with 7 aquamarines worth 500 g.p. each, jewelry value 4,000 g.p.) A shoe near the skeleton hides her grey color card.
8. SECURITY CHIEF'S QUARTERS: This place is also basically intact. The main room is a living/reception room. There is one skeleton in the place, but nothing of value.
a. Personal lounging and dining area. A bottle of liquor on the buffet is treated with a drug to cause personsimbibing it to tell the absolute truth for 3 rounds. One doseis equal to one ounce, and there are 7 ounces left. (DM, here is your chance to sow some dissension . . . ).
b. Chiefs personal office and study. There are three chairs, a case of various worthless books (although they might be of interest to a sage), anda desk. Apress panelon the side of the desk holds three orange cards and a blasterwhose power disc has shorted and ruined it so as to make it permanently unworkable.
¢. Dressing room with nothing of apparent value, but there are two intact uniforms in a wall wardrobe.
d. Master bedroom. Another skeleton is here, sprawled on the floor near the bed. Under some rags nearby is a small metal box with several buttons, a dial, and a grille. It is a command control for police robots, but the voice command is keyed to the chief, so it is useless. If the orange and red buttons are pressed simultaneously, all Police robots within 30’ are shut off until the control box is beyond the 30’ range. Ifeither button is pressed separate- ly, it will call police robots (4 or 2/orange or red) — or release those shut down. It can be used only 7 times before it malfunctions and is ruined.
9. 3 WILL-O'-WISPS: AC -8, MV 18”, HD 9,hp 49, 44, 38, #AT4,D 2-16. These creatures will attempt tolure victims to aradiation area (13). There is a 2 in 6 chance that 4 or 2 will be awayroaming the corridors to the east but will retum in 3-30 rounds (roll for each separately). These monsters have a collection of shiny materials (stainless steel tableware, reflectors, chrome fittings, etc.). Amongst this collection are 2100g.p.gems, 650 g.Pp. gems, and a plastic tubular instrument — this device is eight inches long and about three in diameter, a language translator (see end of module for description). The current power disc will drain in three usages. Note that all treasure is mixed up in a jumble of junk, furnishings, and the like.
|. SHRIEKERS AND FUNGI: The vegepygmies indicated by numeric key 44. grow fungi to eat and raise shriekers to serve as a warning system for them. The vegepygmies know how to move around the shriekers without causing them to sound off, but are ready for trouble whenever the fungi begin their wailing. Shriekers are at the two 10. positions (5-8 at each), while the other fungi grow in a humus layer spread along the length of the passage.
|. VEGEPYGMIES: AC 4, Move 12”, #AT 1, damage by weapon type: HD 4, hp: 5; weapon is dart* (1-3 h.p.) HD 2, hp: 14; weapon is javelin” (4-6 h.p.) HD 3, hp: 17; weapon is club (1-6 h.p.) HD 4, hp: 24; weapon is mace-like (2-7 h.p.) HD 5, hp: 31; weapon is flaiHike (2-8 h.p.) HD 6, hp: 38; weapon is halberd-like (1-10 h.p.)
*2 per creature or special (leaders only)
These creatures sprang up from radiationtwisted hydroponic cultures that affected exposed humans, but they are now able to bud and propagate. Their mottled gray-brown coloration enables them to blend with ship walls in many areas, so as to be 50% invisible. Weapons are fashioned from material aboard the vessel and are crude but effective.
There are 4 vegepygmies per 10’ of room space, 1 of each size from 4 HD to 4 HD, and 4 jet black color card. They act in concert, and if fighting occurs, a call will always go out for their fellows to join the battle if the combatants survive the initial round. The minor vegepygmies have nothing of value.
41a. This is the location of the leader (HD 6, hp: 38) and 5
4 HD sprouts. If has an orange and a violet color card. If battle occurs within 50’ of its lair, there is a 20% chance per 10’ of proximity (50’ = 20%, 40’ = 40%, 30’ = 60%, 20’ = 80% and 40’ = 100%) that the leader will bring out one ofthe weapons it has hoarded (but fears to use). These weapons are (d6):
- 2 sleep gas grenades (1 or 2)
- 4 explosive grenade (3)
- 4 laser pistol, 4 charges (4 or 5)
- 4 blaster rifle, 2 charges (6) There is a 10% chance of malfunction of either the pistol or rifle on first use only. These are hidden behind the grille ofan air duct. Once a weapon malfunctions, it will be totally useless.
(See section at end of module for more details of vegepygmies.)
42. VEGEPYGMIES: This southern group is slightly different from those in the north with whom they compete (but not usuallyin combat) in that the members are splotched with patches of green chlorophyll, so they are 50% invisible only when near greenish areas of vegetation. They live with dog-like creatures (thomies) with the following statistics: AC 3, MV 15", HD 4, hp 20 + 1-10, #AT 4, D 2-5 (plus 3-42 ripping damage from their thom-like growths if in close combat), animal intelligence, man-sized. There will be 3 vegepygmies per 10’ of room space, 1 of each size from 1 HD to 3 HD, plus 1 dog-creature per room. There is a jet black card in the possession of each room group. Weapons will be the same as the northern group with the exception of leaders.
42a. Subchief of 5 HD, 3 sprouts of 3 HD, and 3 “thornies”. It has a yellow card.
412b. Subchief of 5 HD, 5 sprouts of 3 HD, and 4 "thomies”. It has a violet card.
42c. Subchief of 5 HD, 2 sprouts of 3HD, and 2 “thomies”. It has a brown card. 412d. Chief of the southem vegepygmies, a 6 HD creature,
with 4 sprouts of 4 HD, and 6 “thomies”. The chiefcarries @ spray can into battle, an aerosol hypnotic with a 6’ range. If the creature sprayedfailsto saveversuspoison at a -3, itis treated as asleep and subjectto suggestion for 5 rounds. (Note however that the suggestion must be made in a language understandable to the affected monster). Its treasure is in a hollow bed frame in the room: 4 red color card, 1 poison gas grenade, 1 sleep gas grenade, 4 gem bearings of 100 g.p. value each, and a broken communicator.
Note: The southem group of vegepygmies will not attack without a subchieforchiefunless themselves attacked, and in the latter case they will break off and get away as soon as possible.
“Thomies” are attack trained and will obey such acommand from any southem vegepygmy, fighting to the death. As with the vegepygmies, these dog-creatures are not harmed by pointed weapons piercing them, taking but 1 h.p. ofdamage from such attacks.
413. These rooms are radiation-filled and contain contaminants which require a saving throw versus poison. If this save is not made, the exposed creatures will begin to notice a sickness in 2-5 turns, and in 6 tums thereafter they will begin to lose 1 point of strength per hour due to the effect of the radiation sickness. When strength reaches 2 the individualis unable to walk. At -4 strength the person is dead. Anti-radiation serum will stop the sickness, and strength will be regainedthereafter at 4 point per hour.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
44. ART WORKROOM: There are pigment tubes strewn here and there, colors splashed on the walls, bits of canvases, broken easel and brush remains, and similar materials in the foreroom and in room 44a.
14b. Various stone, wood, clay, metal, and plastic sculptures in varying stages of completion (or destruction). Some are of vaguely recognizableform — the largest a 3’ bust of a human head shape. It will be noticed that the majority ofthe wood and metal objects are "decayed", and that the large bust appears to be leprous — as if it were composed of rotting clay. The clay-like material is actually grayooze — AC 8, HD 3 +3, hp 22, #AT1,D 2-16. Another is on the ceiling above (hp 17) covering a 6’ by 2 area. Anyone approaching the bust will be attacked by both oozes. The bust covered by the ooze has 2 gem eyes (base 500 gp. topazes).
45. DOPPLEGANGER PACK: 9 dopplegangers lurk around this area. AC §,MV9", HD 4, hp 27, 24, 22, 21, 20, 18, 15, 15,12, #AT 4, D 1-42; surprise on a one in four, ESP and imitate with 90% accuracy; save as 10th levelfighter. These monsters wait until creatures are using the tube, and then attack those still awaiting their turn. The arrows indicate possible hiding places. Although they have no treasure, the drop tube still bears a poster on its north outer wall showing the location of this tube and the other three as circles on a general outline map of the whole level. Tube procedures and safety measures are printed underneath the map, and these instructions can be read with magical aid. Included are statements to the effect that unauthorized persons are not to enter service deck areas.
416. BLASTER PISTOL: This weapon is laying amidst the debris on the floor! It has a full power disc (6 charges). There is a 5% chance per person passing it that it will be kicked and noticed. There is a 2% chance per person that it will be stepped on and ruined. Check each passerby separately. If the partyis searchingthe floor area, there is a 10% chance per searcher that it will be found. Blaster pistols are described fully at the rear of the module.
KEY TO LEVEL II: SERVICE DECK 5, OR ’TWEEN DECKS
USE ILLUSTRATION #417 WHENEVER A PARTY ENTERS THIS OR THE OTHER (level V) ‘TWEEN DECKS AREA.
CROSSHATCHED AREAS: These are potential danger areas. Generally, all wiring and piping is protected by metal as are all machines. Certain generators and transformers can cause troubles. If any character insists on striking, poking, prodding, or otherwise attacking these areas with metal instruments, there is a 10% chance per round that the individual will electrocute and permanently kill himself or herself. If not so killed, there is a 10% chance that a minor explosion will be caused. An area 10’ distant from the affected generator/transformer/whatever will be subject to a blast of 5-30 (5d6) hit points of damage, although save versus magic will reduce damage to 50% of the amount rolled. All affected are stunned for 1-6 rounds, regardless of saving throw. Those at the edge of the blast radius may jump outofthe blast by adding their armor class (magical rings and bracers do not count) to the roll of 1d6 and comparing it to a roll of 3d6 by the DM. If the character has a higher score, he or she is clear of the blast. For this check, magic armor is treated as one AC typeless than it actually is, ie. scale is treated as ringmail, etc. Also, if an explosion occurs, there is a 5% chance that anyother generator/ transformer within 40’ will react in a secondary blast of 5’ radius, 5- 20 hit points damage, and 1-3 rounds of stunning. There will be a series of snappings, cracklings, poppings, and hummings after any explosion. Lights here and there will flicker on and off. Within 1- 4 rounds a worker robot will appear to repair the damaged machinery. If it sees the party and is not shown a brown, violet, or gray card, it will summon 1-3 police robots which will appear in 1-3 turns.
4. INTELLECT DEVOURER: AC 4, MV 15", HD 6 +6, hp 44, #AT4, D 2- 5(x4) (attacks are at 9 HD level and damage +4 as shown due to the creature’s size and strength); impervious to most spells and weapons under +3 — lasers do no harm, but a
ORiGimaL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
blaster causes 2-8 (2d4) h.p.; the ‘devourer can hide in shadows with 63% chance of success.
This monster is trapped ‘tween decks, for the ship's energy fields prevent it from becoming ethereal and even its great intelligence does not understand the concept of doors operated by color cards. It came to be in this situation as follows: In its early stages, the plague caused insanity in the infected person, and in this state the commander of the vessel entered a cargo hold. In his madness, the captain tripped off a stasis field which held a particularly evil form of alien fauna — the intellect devourer. Freed from its cage, the creature preyed upon the demented commander and assumed his form. Some crewmen, still unaffected by the sickness, realized that there was something terribly wrong and organized a hunt for the thing which possessed their captain's body. One ofthe hunters soon became the hunted, and the chase eventually led to the ‘tween decks. The crewman blasted the flesh of the body away, but the ‘devourer then did for him. (Itwas during this combatthatthe hole was blastedin the deck, giving access to the cargo hold beneath.) The crewman’s bones and blaster (2 charges left) are in the hold, along with his orange card.
The intellect devourer will come to any explosion in 2-5 rounds. It will pick up the thoughts of any person upon the deck in 3-12 rounds after their entry, unless it is in the cargo hold (40% chance). In the latter event it will emerge in 1-6 turns and then rounds for sensing thoughts must be determined. Once thoughts are discovered, the creature will move to the area and stalk its prey.
Jumbled bones of the captain, with his laser pistol with 4 charges left on the power disc. The dotted line points towards his grey card, The chance of spotting the card is 5% per person if a cursory examination of the area is made, 20% per person if a thorough search is conducted. Check separately for each individual.
}. WHEELY SLED: USE KLUSTRATION #48. There are three such devices onthe level — 6’long, 3’ wide, 1’ high maintenance vehicles. These devices are propelled by a battery operated engine which is recharged at various plug-in terminals on the level. Speed is 1” to 15" depending on lever setting. The controls are the speed lever, on/off switch, and flush steering wheel with lift and lock hand grasp. Capacity is 1 ton. If unsteered, roll 18 for direction (1 = N, 2= NE, =, 4= SE,5=S, 6 = SW, 7 = W, 8 = NW). The platform is semi-fiexible, and the device can turn 45° in 6’ as all of its wheels turn on the new course, but high speedturs are likely to cause passengers to fly off (2% chance per 1" of speed, cumulative, i.e. 2%, 4%, 6%, 8%, etc. to 30% at 15” speed). A sudden impact will cause 4 h.p. of damage per 1” of speed if passengers strike a hard substance such as a bulkhead.
4. REPAIR ROBOT: USE ILLUSTRATION #49. This robot is recharg- ing its batteries at a power terminal. If the parly has brown cards it will ignore them. If they have a violet or gray color card, and can communicate with it, the robot will obey and follow, butitwill runoutof power in é tums as its accumulators are deficient. Ifthe party has no brown, violet, or gray cards or if not shown any card, the robot will alert police robots to investigate, even if it is shown orange or red cards.
NOTE: The jagged black area in the northwest isthe hole blasted in the deck and leads to the cargo hold below — this is indicated on the level Ill map as well.
43. RADIATION AREA: See Key to Level I.
»
»
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e
KEY TO LEVEL Ill: UPPER WALKWAY AND LOUNGE AREA
WANDERING MONSTERS: Encounter occurs 4 in 20, check each turn.
1, police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5) 2-5. nothing 6. lurker above 7. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6) 8-44. nothing 12. green slime When the parly steps onto the walkway, DISPLAY ILLUSTRATION #20.
CARGO HOLDS: These areas are still filled with huge crates and containers which hold building materials, fertilizers, and similar colonization materials. There will be some destruction of goods noted, as well as human bones here and there — the remains of the plague when crewmen went insane. The party willfind nothing of value in any cargo hold not specially noted
LIFTS within cargo holds are floor elevators for cargo transfer between these holds and those below. They are operated by strong depression of colored floor panels on the lifts — the green Plate for down, the silvery one for up, and the blue plate for emergency stop. While the lifts are functioning well, the emergency stop will cause malfunction 50% of the time, stalling the elevator for from one to fourturns, and there is a 20% chance per turn that a worker robot will show up to repair the trouble. Unless a violet card is displayed to the robot, it will call for 1-3 police robots.
LOUNGES: These rooms are still in a relatively good state of repair. There are tables and chairs, loungers, couches, amusement devices, and so forth. There are some bones, but there are no skeletons.
Cocktail Lounge, Bar, Dancing, Night Club area is unremark- able, and there is no longer any power in the area. There are several bottles in a carton in the far corner of the bar area, and one contains alcohol which is highly inflammable (burns for 3 melee rounds causing 3-12 (344) h.p. of damage to alll creatures in a 5’ radius globe).
KITCHENS: These facilities are robokitchens like those on level |. NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. ROPERS’ TERRITORY: 3 ropersinhabit this space — AC 0,MV3", HD 10/44/12, hp 47/50/62, #AT 4, D 5-20; 1-6 strands from 20’ - 50’, hits causing weakness in 1-3 rounds (lasts 1-3 turns); blaster damage is normal, but laserhits cause +4 hit points.
One roper will be on the walkway “fishing” for small arboreal creatures in the tree tops 20’ to 40’ below. It is 80% indistinguishable from the pillar which supports the over- head. Its two companions lurk just inside the dark entry to the cocktail lounge. These creatureseach have 2-12 base 10g.p. gems in their gizzard-like organs, and during the course of their hunting, they have collected the following treasure: 2 dud explosive grenades, 1 fire extinguisher (the cold of the CO: will cause 1-4 hp. damage to mammals and other similar creatures with warm blood, 1-6 hp damage to cold blooded creatures, and 3-12 hit points of damage to plant life) with 3 rounds ofpropeliant, a spoolofplatinumwireworth 4,600 g.p., and an anti-grav belt (see sectionat the endofthe module for details).
STRANGLE VINES: USE ILLUSTRATION #24.AC 6, MV (creep) 4”, HD special (attacks as a 4 HD monster), unlimited number of attacks, 1-4 h.p. of squeezing damage plus 10% chance to wrap around neck and strangle to death; a vine section can be cut or chopped away on a hit, but next round a new section will be there to attack; plant is immune to normal (torch-like) fires, but will be burned and withdraw from burning, oil, magical fire, laser hits or blaster hits. Cold freezes
ad
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
bd
the vines in the area struck, but thawing occurs in 2-5 rounds unless three charges (from the fire extinguisher or its equivalent) are expended. Any electrical attacks double the vines’ growth and movementrate on the following turn. These creepers are attracted to the strongest light source, ie. continual light, bright ship's light, light, lantern, magic sword glow, torch light.
VAMPIRE THORN VINES: USE ILLUSTRATION #22. AC 4, Move special, HD special (attack as 3 HD monster), 4 altacks per 410’ of vine, any hit will drain fluids from the body, causing damage equal to 25% of that character's maximum hit points. There are fourlong tendrils along each 10’ of the vine, and these have a 5’ lashing range. Each tendril has numer- ous hollow thors of one to four inch length through which it draws the juices of its victim. A tendril takes 6 hit points to destroy, a 10’ vine section takes 20 hit points plus tendril values. Any sort of flame or great heat will cause the tendrils to recoil, but electrical attacks cause the vine to regenerate damage equal to the number of hit points of the electrical attack mode. Avampire thorn vine can creep at %" permelee found, and light attracts one just as it does strangle vines. Cold affects it as it does a strangle vine.
. DINING SERVO ROBOT: Most of these robots have been
scrapped, but this one still functions — orrather malfunctions. It will immediately attempt to seat any persons entering the dimly lit lounge area, and then begin serving them heaping dishes of “food”. The substance in the dishes will be a decaying mush covered with nauseous blue-green mold. If any creature so much as tastes a drop of it, it will cause insanity the next round as the blue-green spores attack the brain. Insanity lasts for 1-4 turns, and the person then dies. The effects are curable with either neutralize poison or a disease curative solution or spell. Purify food and drink will have no effect. If the party refuses to eat, the servowillattempt to force feed the closest person, pursuing the party if they attempt to flee, although the servo will not leave the level. The servo robot: AC 3, MV 15”, HD 6, hp 36, #AT 2 (grapples with 18/50 strength) while 2 tentacles shove “food” into the person's face.
4a. A heap of bones from previous diners, cleaned up and placed here by the servo. Amidst these remains area jet black and a violet card, an empty needler, and three pieces of jewelry (1,000 to 4,000 gp. value each).
3-36 WEBBIRDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #23. AC 8, MV 3"/18”,HD 1, hp 4 each, see below for attacks and damage. These fairly intelligent creatures appear to be beakless birds of raven size. Close inspection will reveal a slitted maw with numerous small and pointed teeth in it. They have long and spikey- appearing tails and a small, drooping chest appendage. Whenever a parly approaches within 40’ of their area, the webbirds will fly overhead and attempt to capture themwith their webs which they spin. When this occursrollad6, adding 4 to the result for every 6 of the webbirds overhead:
under 3. — webbirds ineffective in attacking
3to5 — webbirds snare one character, and he or she is held fast for 2-8 founds
6to8 — webbirds spin webs at2-5 persons, and those covered will require 2-5 rounds to get free
over 8 — webbirds spin webs over entire party,
and they are slowed to 1” perround movement until webs are destroy- ed, and entanglement makes attacks impossible for the duration
of the round
Webs are somewhat similar to those of spiders but are not inflammable. Strength of 17 shortens immobilization time by 4 round, 18 strength by 2 rounds. One flask of wine (or other
44
alcoholic liquid) will loose one individual in one melee found.)
As soon as any individual is held fast by webs, 1-4 of these creatures will fly down and alight upon him or her. Their chest appendage is inserted into the immobile victim's flesh, and the webbirds commence to deposit theireggstherein. These eggs will hatch in 3-6 (404 + 2) turns, and thereafter the larva-like grubs will begin to devour the host, causing extreme Pain and 2-8 hit points of damage per turn until the host dies and the webbird grubs can crawl out. Any disease curative will kill the grubs.
Webbirds shun flame, and any person with a torch will motivate the webbirds to attack those without such flame.
Note: Webbirds can be caught by hand (if “to hit” base score is rolled) and crushed in one round, although the personwill always take 1 hit point from a dyingbite when so crushing these monsters.
CARGO HOLD WITH CEILING HOLE: See the key to level I for details of the intellect devourer which will be here on a percentile dice roll of 04 -40. Check again each tum. This hold has a number of stasis cages (now empty). There are bones strewn about, and under a human skeleton are an orange card and a blaster rifle (2 charges).
6a. After no less than 2 turns of careful searching the party will discover a wrapped crate — a transparent stasis cage with a black dial, which will free the cage occupants ifturned. The cage holds: 4 COUATL: AC 5, MV 6"/18", HD 9, hp 40, 37, 24, 19, #AT 2, D 1-3/2-8 (plus poison effects on the first attack form). If freed, these creatures will attack the intellect devourer and slay it ifit appears, orthey will goforth and kill the webbirds (driving survivors into hiding for 2-5 hours), but not both. The couatl will not attack their rescuers, and if needed, they will use One cure disease and two cure light wounds spells (per couatl) upon party members before depart- ing.
The intellect devourer freed other creatures from stasis in order
to eat them, but it knew that these would be too much to
handle. When it sees the couatl it will flee — but to no avail,
although the two small couatls will be slain during the fight.
ROBOT STATION: Each of these rooms will contain 4 police robot and 3 worker robots. There is a 50% chance that eachis non-functioning.
GREEN SLIME: The growth to the east near the drop tube is above the doorway and will drop off 2 in 6 — check for each character passing through until 4 pieces of slime have dropped. That which grows to the south is covering the rail of the walkway, and is of a bluish coloration which makes it seem as if the paint is peeling from the material rather than that itis coveredwithgreen slime. Contact with this substance turns exposed flesh into green slime within 4-4 melee rounds.
9. MAGNIFYING VIEWERS: USE ILLUSTRATION #24. If these binoculars are turned the proper way and adjusted (one in six chance per character attempting to discover their use) they bring objects five times closer, i.e. 100’ is viewed as if the person was only 20’ distant from the subject. This will allow viewing of the level below (and display of appropriate illustrations) if the ship's lights are on. Removal of these viewers from their fixtures will result In destroying their optics and will make them useless.
43. RADIATION AREA: See level | key.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY TO LEVEL IV: BOTANICAL GARDENS, ROOKERY, AND MENAGERIE
‘WANDERING MONSTERS:
Encounter occurs 4 in 4, check each turn: 4. fourwinged bird 7. four-winged bird
2. three-legged monkeyoid 8. squitreloid
3. rabbitoid 9. tree lizardoid
4. white, multi-legged grub 10. rabbitoid
5. ratoid 44. 4" grasshopperoid
6 six-eyed toad 12. rabbitoid (ILLUSTRATION #42)
Note: All encounters are with HARMLESS creatures unless keyed in the matrix below.
Immediately upon setting foot on this deck it will be apparent to. the party that it is teeming with life. A number of calls, whistles, screams, and similar sounds can be heard. This noise does not reach the upperwalkway due to a sonic screen. Those areas not covered with foliage will be spread with dead leaves and vegetable matter, bones, rubbish, husks, andso forth, andearthis slowly spilling onto heretofore bare metal decks. Small creatures — animals, birds, insects, reptiles — can be seen darting here and there.
WHEN THE PARTY ENTERS THE LEVEL DISPLAY EITHER ILLUSTRATION #34 of #32 AS APPLICABLE.
TIERS: The whole botanical garden area is designed to give the impression of naturalness and space. There are tiers rising along the boundary of the place, each being about 5’ higher than the next. Likewise, a tier descends towards the centrallake, and then the islet in the center of that body is tiered in 10’ heights. These walls are made to appear as natural stone and are generally obscured by vegetation.
SMALL ANIMAL BURROWS: Artificial burrows carefully built into the outer layers of tiers. Keepers could easily take care of these burrows by means of the work spaces underneath the rising tiers. These burrows are illustrated as a “c" shape representing the entry and an “o" or oval representing the den area. They are large enough to permit the entry of a gnome or halfling.
WALKWAYS: The flagged walkways are shown by dotted lines. The circular dotted areas are resting places with stone benches. Vegetation is so thick as to make it impossible to tell what direction a pathway goes. The “S" marks on the circular areas of flagstone are concealed entrances to the ‘tween decks area below.
Serviceway lanes under the tiers have their access in the 10’ wide Passage between the garden area and the periphery areas. Small, latched metal doors give into the den portions of the burrows,
STREAMLETS AND POOLS: The solid lines are small streams of running water. They vary in depth from 1’ to 2’ orso and areabout as wide asthey are deep. The shadedcircles are pools, about 1 2’ across, shelved from 2' depth at the edge to about 10’ (despite some silting) in the center. Life abounds in and near them — insects, colorful fish, amphibians, and so forth.
SWAMP as indicated on the level map is an area of the garden where underground piping leaks badly. Combined with the rise of the central lake, a boggy area has occured, with water from 1’ to 3’ of so deep between hummocks of vegetation.
LAKE: This body of water was formerly a large, natural aquarium for the enjoyment of upper echelon personnel. Various water creatures of a harmless sort, or marine life confined to water and not overly dangerous, couldbe viewed from above and belowin the underislet viewing chamber (see islet, below). It still has numbers of fish breaking its surface now and then, as well as teptilian and amphibian sorts of creatures along its verge. (See cross-section of Underislet Observatory for lake depths.)
12
Bridge access to the islet is illustrated in graphic #32 and #33, if the latter is applicable . . . This is the only normal approach. (See 48., below, for details of what will be attracted if any person peers over the edge of the bridge.)
ISLET: This centerpiece originally was the setting forthe loveliest of exotic flora and its attendant fauna. There is no path onthe small land space, but the way leads directly to a pair of doors which open at a touch of the key plate.
Underislet Marine Observatory is illustrated in cross-section and by ILLUSTRATION #25. The stairway spirals down to 50’, 70’ and 100’ depth observation floors. Ifthe ship's lights are on, the viewers will see various forms of large and small fish, and have a one in six chance of getting a glimpse of the “frog-thing” (48.) Glints of gems will be seen from the lake bedi! If they use lights in the observatory they absolutely will not only see that creature, but it will begin smashing at the plastiglass observation windows to get at the tender morsels within. The chance to break through is 5% per round. Attempts will cease as soon as the light is extinguished or the party is out of the monster's sight.
A small closet on the lowest level of the marine observatory can be opened with aviolet card. Inside are a half dozen wet suits with breathing apparatus in flat chest packs which attach to full bubble-type headgear, swimming foot fins, and back pack Propulsion devices. USE ILLUSTRATION #26. From 2-4 workable sets can be garnered from the six there, but there is a 10% chance per item that lack of technical knowledge will cause the item to. malfunction when the wearer enters the water. The chest breathing apparatus will function for 9 turns, and then a buzzing sound will be emitted to indicate that 3 turns of time remain before the pack must be recharged. The back propulsion device has a lever trigger which shoots forth a gas jet; under water this Propels the wearer at 12” movement rate for 6 rounds before becoming useless. If used on the surface, it causes an uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after one round and then turned back on.
The rear wall of this closet has another small door keyed to aviolet card, and this opens to a smaller chamber — an air lock. If there are persons within the 4’ x 8’ room when the door is closed, it will first fill with water, and then an outer hatch will open. The noise of this is 75% likely to attract 48., the Froghemoth (q.v.).
LETTERED AND NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
‘A. DEADLY PURPLE BLOSSOM PLANT (see 5, below).
B. DEADLY TRI-FLOWER PLANT (see 5., below).
(©. DEADLY SNAPPER-SAW PLANT (see 5., below).
D. THE HORRID PLANT (see 5., below).
£. GLOBE PALM (see 5., below).
Be certain not to confuse B designation plant encounters with B(brown) color card keyed doors. Also remember that $ denotes a concealed hatchway to the service deck beneath.
4. 8 LEECHOIDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #27. AC 7, MV 3”, HD 2+2,hp 415, 14, 4x12, 11, 10, #AT4, D 1-4, These swamp creatures are nearly identical to the giantleeches common elsewhere. The victim must save versus poison, however, for otherwise the next round he or she will go into a hallucinatory state and lay down in the swamp (duration 3 turns). Blood drain is 2 hit points per round until dead, but the victim can easily drown first.
2. LOW GRASS PATCH: USE ILLUSTRATION #28. This is the deadly boring grass, a mutated, carnivorous plant which attacks any living thing which rests upon it. The blades are corkscrewed, and they will immediately bite into exposed flesh, inflicting from 5-20 hit points of damage that round, and like amounts on each successive round. On the second and each successive rounds the victim must save versus poison or be paralyzed. Any wound inflicted by this stuff slows thevictim to 50% of normal movement, and this slowing remains for 1-4 days or until a neutralize poison spell or device is applied.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
-
Magical protections like a ring +4 will slow the attack by 4 found, so no damage will be taken immediately. It requires 4 round for the boring grass to get through leather soles or thick clothing, Plate soles are impervious to the grass for 6 full rounds — indefinitely if the wearer keeps moving. The grass can be killed by burning it with oil poured upon it, defoliants, ‘or a blaster, incendiary grenade, or explosive grenade. Lasers have too small an area of effect to be sufficient to damage this vegetation seriously.
DEADLY REPTILES SECTION: This former viewing section once provided amusement for passengers, but when the plague struck, most of the force screens were shut off in the mania which attended the disease, and general carnage followed. Only the force screen of the (darkened) first cage in the northern part still remains up, and inside its enclosure can be seen the remains of the pair of horrible monsters which were penned therein. There are numerous small life forms around, but the predominant creatures dwell amidst some boulders and screening vegetation at 3 proper.
2 LIZARDOIDS: AC 5, MV 12" = 3” (clear hop), HD 8, hp 47, 39, #AT 3 (claw, claw, bite), D 1-4/1-4/4-16, animal intelligence, man sized (4'2' tall). USE ILLUS- TRATION #29.
These mottled near-dinosaurs are 90% unlikely to be spotted until they are within hoppingrange (3”), andunless seen they will gain surprise or complete surprise (d6, 1 or 2). Their nest contains three unhatched eggs, numerous bones, husks, a broken laser rife, a pile of dead leaves with ahumanskeleton beneath (a nearby pouch has a violet card, an aerosol defoliant can with 4 sprays of 2-8 hp. damage, and a laser drill which has 6 charges on the power disc — the drill will cut through one inch of ship's metal (including plasteel) in a 4/40th to one inch diameter hole in one round with one charge), and the end of a gold medallion worth 200 g.p. will be spotted sticking from a pile of droppings.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS SECTION: This area was similar to 3., above, with various ferocious beasts being taken out ofstasis for a time and put on display behind the force screens of the cages. The area is a menagerie no longer, but rather the home territory of a brute with a temperament which would make a wolverine seem as a lap dog in comparison:
AURUMVORAX: AC 0, MV 9°(3”), HD 12, hp 84, #AT1,D 2-8 (plus special attack noted below); animal intelligence; smaller than man-sized. USE ILLUSTRATION #34.
This golden camivore appears to be a badger-like creature, about 1%’ high and 3‘ long, with four legs on each side. It is the fiercest predator in the area, having killed its competitors some time back. It is a high density, very massive creature and weighs over 500 pounds despite its small size — thus its armor class. It will scuttle from hiding to attack, surprising prey 50% of the time. If it succeeds in closing its jaws on a victim, it does not let go, and on the next turn the opponent creature takes an additional 2-8 attacks (clawing) for 4-4 hit points each — besides the automatic 2-8 points from the locked jaws of the aurumvorax. Only killing the thing willforce: it to loose its grip. Gas, poison, or fire do not harm it, but lasers cause half damage and blasters do full damage. Explosive grenades will stun the creature for 1-3 rounds. Needlers have no effect. It has no treasure.
. DEADLY PLANTS SECTION: As noted in 3., above, the passen-
gers were treated to various displays of dangerous flora and fauna, and during the days of the plague the force cages were generally shut off and the controls destroyed, freeing the exhibits. This area is now jungle-like, with many plants of strange and colorful types. Five of these special sorts are harmful or dangerous:
43
A. PURPLE BLOSSOMS: USE ILLUSTRATION #35. This tall (8’- 13’), thick stalked plant has a branchless, scaled trunk with fern-like foliage at the top. These fronds droop a short distance down. Mixed with these are cup-shaped purple flowers with silvery stamens. The flowers point upwards towards the lights in the ceiling. Around the base of the plant is a fine, mossy mat, actually the roots. The flowers exude a very attractive perlume and sweet sap. The vibrations of any creature passing beneath the cupped lavendar blooms will cause them to gently tilt and drip a syrupy poison from the flower, with a 25% chance of the creature being struck by this toxic sap. If the creature fails to save versus poison, it dies instantly, and its decomposi- tion feeds the roots of the plant. Each plant is AC 8 and takes from 21-26 hit points of damage to destroy.
TRI-FLOWER FRONDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #36. The deep green 5'-8' tall stalks of this plant are topped by trumpet- shaped flowers of vivid orange, bright yellow, and intense ted. Each flower has its own function: The orange one shoots 2-8 3’ long tendrils fromits center, and any creature struck must save versus the poison fromthe pollen ofeach tendtil or fall into comatose slumber. The yellow bloom will bend over the sleeping victim immediately (sensitive rootlets note where the victims) and tremble: this vibration loosing a shower of sticky enzyme which causes 2-8 hit points of damage per round until the victim is completely fotted away — each flask of water dumped upon a victim in the same round as the damage is done will reduce damage by 4 hit point, total immersion in water removes
the sap entirely. The red flower extends tubular tendrils of 1’
length, sinking them into the slumbering victim, first
drawing body fluids at the rate of 1-6 hit points per tum, and then sucking up the residual matter after the enzyme has dissolved the victim's body.
Note: Other color combinations of the plant's flowers are white, pale silvery-gray, and pink or golden brown, chocolate brown, and russet
AC 9, each triflower frond takes 17-20 (d4 + 16) hit points
C. SNAPPER-SAW: USE ILLUSTRATION #37. This plant has broad, ribbed leaves radiating out 5'-7' from its bushy center where plump and delicious smelling white berries abound. Hidden in the bushy center are 3-6 (d4 + 2) tough stalk-like leaves with sharp edges and jagged thomy projections which remind the viewer of a saw. Any creature stepping within the radius of the low growing ribbed leaves will find that these growths will snap shut. holding it fast, and the saw-lke stalks then flail the victim to shed its juices and shred its flesh to feed the plant. A trapped creature has a base 5% chance to break free, +5% per point of strength, checking each round. Even if successful in breaking free, the victim is subject to one round of saw stalk attacks. Each saw stalk attacks as a 5 HD monster, inflicting 2-5 hit points of damage. Note: Berries can be transparent golden color or yellow- green. Snapper leaves are AC 7 and take 12 hit points of damage each to sever. Saw stalks are AC 4 and take 20 hit points of damage to break. The central bush takes 25-30 (dé + 24) hit points of damage to kill, and when itis dead, the leaves and stalks die. Bush AC is 9. The berries arenon- poisonous.
D. THE HORRID PLANT: USE ILLUSTRATION #38. The leprous yellow-gray and ugly scarlet colors of this intelligent plant belie its peaceful and inoffensive nature, as do its spiky leaves, bloated, bottle-lke stems, twitching tendrils and writhing roots. If any intelligent creature comes within 5’ of this creature, thinking questioning thoughts, the plant will communicate telepathically, mentally giving the creature assurance that it is friendly to it, and warning it of the dangerous plants (A., B,C. and E.). It can also give a vague description of the level. If the plant is attacked, it will lash its spiked leaves at the attacker. Range is 5’,
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
attacks as a 6 HD monster, inflicting 3-12 hit points of damage. If this fails to drive the opponent away, or if tis attacked from a distance beyond its lashing range, the plant will discharge a bolt of electricity at the nearest attacker, 30 hit points of damage, no saving throw! (It can do this once every other round, 4 times maximum.) The plant is AC 6 and takes 63 hitpoints. Once attacked it will not communicate with the party.
» GLOBE PALMS: USE ILLUSTRATION #39. These tall, slender trees are topped with 5-8 (d4 + 4) globe-like fruits of coconut size. These globes are blue, violet, orlilac in color. Walking under one of these palms makes it 20% likely that ‘one of these globes willl fall, and if the tree is brushed it is 90% probable that one will fall. If the palm is roughly contacted, 2-5 of the fruit globes will tumble down. These globes are membranous and taut. They have a bursting radius of 5’, andthereis a 25% chance perpersonnearthe palm that they will be within this radius and splashed with the liquid contents of the globe. The fluid inside is most nauseating; any creature splashed will spend the next 3 rounds vomiting, and will be ill and at only 50% of normal strength for 6 full turns thereafter. There is nosaving throw. If the affected character is washed with wine, the smell will go away, but otherwise, an odor will continue for 12 turns, and this will attract all monsters within 50’ of the affected creature! The palm is AC 8, and it takes 31-40 hit points to cut through its trunk.
6. UMBER HULK: AC 2,MV 6" (1”-6"), HD 8, hp 49, #AT3, D 3-12/ 3-12/2-40; gaze causes contusion for 3-4 2rounds unless save versus magic is made. This creature lurks near the drop tube for prey. Amidst the debris of its nest are: a mud-encrusted blaster rifle with 3 charges and an anti-grav belt with but 4 found of power remaining in its disc (if the wearer goes up over 30’, or if it is used a second short period, it will cease functioning, and the wearer will fall).
6 BABOONOIDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #40. AC 6,MV6"012" (tree movement speed), HD 4, hp 30, 25, 23, 22, 16,13, AT 1, D 2-5; low to near average intelligence, slightly smaller than man- size. These creatures are omnivorous, but they do not hunt large creatures. They will hide from the party, but itis 75%likely that they will be noticed if the parly is being cautious as it moves along. If molested, the baboonoids will hut! globe palm fruit missiles at attackers. The bull who leads the tribe also has 2 sleep gas grenades which he will hurl if hard pressed. These creatures have a limited vocabulary lan- guage, and it is 20% possible to parley with them, and if the Party will kill the shambling mounds (44., below), the baboonoids will send two of their numberto serve as scouts for the party as long as it remains on the level. Of course, some means of communication must be established, and the baboonoids will desire all grenades which arefound, as they understand the use of such missiles from their experi- ence with palm globes.
=
20 SCINTILLATING PHOSPHORESCENT FISH: This pool is inhabited by darting 1’ long creatures which appear as sparkling lights when viewed from a distance. These fish have poison spines, and any creature touching one must save versus poison at -3 or die instantly. The scales of each fish number between 55 - 100, each being of gem-like material worth 5 gp. per scale.
. BROWN (BLACK) PUDDING: AC 6, MV 6”, HD 10, hp 54, #AT4, D 3-24; cutting or lightning make more of these monsters, cold and electrical attacks do not harm it; blasters, fire, and lasers will do full damage. This monster hides in the swamp, where it appears to be nothing more than a muddy hillock. If ‘approached within 10’ it has a 50% chance of attacking by surprise or complete surprise (dé, 1 or 2). Ithas no treasure at cll
14
40. BRILLIANT FISH: These fish are about the same size as those described in 8,, above, but they sparkle and flash only when there is bright light, and they are more variegated in color. Each of the 32 fish in the pool has developed into avoracious, piranho-like predator, attacking as a 5 HD monster and causing 1-3 hit points of damage per bite. The creatures are AC 5 and take only 2 hit points each. They have no treasure.
« 2SHAMBLING MOUNDS: AC 0, MV 6”, HD 10, 8, hp 62, 47, #AT2, D 2-16/2-16; two simultaneous attacks which succeed against the same opponent equal entanglement and suffocation in 2-8 melee rounds; fire does no harm, cold and blasters cause half or no damage, weapons score only half normal damage, but defoliants do double damage. These vegetable creatures lurk amongst the thick growths near the Path to catch the unwary, surprising on a 4 in 6. They will emerge when prey is within 10’ of them, closing to striking distance in one round. If these monsters are slain, a careful inspection of the area will reveal a narrow path leading to 41a.
44a. A heap oftotting vegetation, about 1’ down in which will be found 2 fully charged power discs. Another foot down will be discovered a human skeleton with a jeweled ring (5,200 gp. value). Another foot further and the diggerwill uncover anestof5-20rot grubs: AC 9, MV 1", 4 hip. each, burrow into flesh and eat heart of victim in 4-3 turns unless flame is applied to each entry point immediately (flame causes 1-6 hit points of damage per application) or a cure disease treatment is used.
MOSSY PATCH: This is actually green slime — touch causes exposed flesh to become green slime in 1-4 rounds. Dissoives wood, leather, and metal. Killed by cold, fire, or cure disease treatment.
SQUEALER: USE ILLUSTRATION #44. AC 6, MV 1269", HD 12, hp 74, #AT 2, D 7-42 (bite*dé + 6)/1-3(claw). This creature is a fierce and semi-intelligent predator about the size of a large gorilla. It is spotted yellow and green with a pig-like head about 2’ long — most of which is mouth filled with sharp tushes! Two arm-like appendages with 3 razorsharp claws sprout from its hunched shoulders and rear quarters respec- tively while another grows from the center of its back, Its wo forelimbs are about a foot longer than its rear limbs, and have clawed, prehensile fingers. Its head isthrustforward. The monster is able to imitate the death shrieks and distress cries of various animals, and it uses such calls to attract prey, forit feeds upon hunting animals as readily as upon the hunted. Its favorite trick is to find a tree limb sufficient to support its 400 pound bulk, squeal, and then drop down with its forepart upon its victim, retaining a hold with its three rear limbs. The beast will then draw its prey to its maw with its 18/00 strength forelimbs while it bites and claws it to death. The squealerwill surprise its prey 50% of the time.
Its lair is inside one of the burrows, one of unusual size originally designed fora harmless fuzzy herbivore. Amidst the bones therein is a young squealer (half all stats above), an ‘orange card, an incendiary grenade, and 4 gems of 100 gp. value each.
LIZARD AREA: There are many lizards and harmless lizardoids inhabiting the area in a 40’ radius of the numerical key, for there are many flowering plants and their attendant insects here. These creatures live in the burrows, the shrubbery and the trees. They range from chameleon-size to 3’ and more. IF THE PARTY HAS NOT SLAIN ALL OF THE ROPERS ON LEVEL III, THERE|S A 10% CHANCEPER ROUND THAT THEY AREINTHISAREA THAT ONE WILL SEND DOWN A ROPE TO “FISH” FOR THE LIZARDS. — or the monkeyoids and catoids which prey upon them from time to time. If the party members are on a higher tier, it is 50% probable that one of them will be grappled by aroper’s strand.
45. STRANGLE VINE: As noted in the level Ill key, number 2., ILLUSTRATION #24, these plants have mobile vines which
4
412.
13.
414.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
creep at 5’ per round and squeeze for 1-4 h.p. damage, 10% chance of strangulation per round, with vines attacking as 4HD monsters. At the root base of these plants there are only 8 of these vines, each having AC 6 and taking 18 hit points of damage to completely destroy. The whole vine is AC5 andwill take 200 hit points to destroy.
46. VAMPIRE THORN VINE: Unlike the mobile vines on level III (number 3.), ILLUSTRATION #22, these stem areas have 5-8 tendrils around the base, eachtendfril having alashingrange of 7’. These tendrils are AC 4, but each takes 10 hit points to sever, and they attack as § HD monsters. The plant proper takes 170 hit points to kill and is AC 3. Creatures struck by the thorn-covered tendrils lose 25% of total hit points that round and thereafter until tendril is severed, so death will occur in 4 rounds unless the vine is chopped off.
47. WOLF-IN-SHEEP'S-CLOTHING: When this encountertakes place roll as if on the wandering monster table, look unhappy, and then showthe group ILLUSTRATION #42, “The Cute Little Bunnyoid on the Stump”. Statistics of the creature are: AC 7 (eyestalks)/5 (bodystump)/3 (root tentacles), Move 1”, HD 9, hit points are: 15 (each eyestalk)/50 (bodystump)/20 (each root tentacle) 1-3 attacks plus maw, 41-4 hit points of damage plus 7-12 hit points from biting.
This predator comes fromthe same planet thatthe abundant tabbitoids seen all overthe levelcomefrom. Ithas developed a fleshy growth atop its body which exactly duplicates one of these harmless herbivores, and it wiggles and displays this baitto lure others of this kind — or creatures which prey upon them — to it. The wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing has likewise adapted its body form to resemble a tree stump, while its mobile and grasping tentacle roots appear to be nothing more than gnarled tree roots, and its eyestalks appeartobe vines or plant growths. The rabbitoid lure will seem to look at approaching creatures, and then crouch and “freeze” in order to pass unnoticed. When prey comestowithin 8'-10' of the creature, the root tentacles will strike to grab, crush, and draw prey to the maw. (USE ILLUSTRATION #43.) It requires 4 round to be dragged to this toothy orifice, and there isa 5% chance per point of strength above 12 that the character grabbed can break free of one roottentacle. Those with 18/% strength have a chance toactuallysnap themember aswell. 1% for every percent of exceptional strength, provided that they first free themself from the grasp of the tentacle. Each monster has 7 root tentacles and 2-3 eyestalks,
48. FROGHEMOTH: AC 2 (tentacles)/4 (body)/6 (tongue), Move 2"//8" (4" in swamp), HD 16, hit points 21 (pertentacle)/105 (body)/14 (tongue), 1 or 4 attacks, damage per attack is 5- 50 or 5-8, Fire does not harm the froghemoth, but it has a 20% chance of driving the thing back for 1 round (this includes laser shots). Needlers and gas doit no harm. Cold slows it to half speed and attack rate for 1 round. Lightning does 4 hit point per die of damage. Blasters cause normal damage, as do regular weapons such as swords, spears, etc. The creature is non-intelligent and larger than man-sized. USE ILLUSTRA- TION #33 if encountered on the bridge.
45.
19.
Whether this is a mutated thing or the adult form of some specimen loosed from captivity, itis unquestionably the most fearsome of all the terrible life forms on the level. The froghemoth's 18’ long, 10’ wide bodys yellow-orange on the belly, shading to a medium green on its back and thick, bowed rear legs. From its shoulder area sprout fourtentacies, two from each shoulder, which are green on top and yellowish underneath. The creature's nostrils are stalk-like, and its three eyes are housed on a retractable protruding appendage which is withdrawn when danger threatens the optics. The froghemoth will often submerge its body several feet beneath the water, trail its tentacles ashore, and watch with its eye appendage at waterlevel — this, along with the nostril stalks, appears to be a plant growth of some sort.
The ftogthing is also able to capture prey with its long, barbedtongue. this membercan be flicked out toa distance of 10’. Unless the creature caught by the tongue is able to hold fast to something quickly — such as atree, rope, etc, — it will be drawn that very round to the froghemoth’s gaping jaws and tornto shreds. it will swallow prey whole ona"tohit” roll of 19 of 20. (Ita characteris grabbed, the chance to hold ‘onto some object, if any exists to grab, is the roll of a dé, discounting 1 or 2 as surprised and unable to hold on to anything, compared to the roll of a d8 for the monster, if the monster's roll is higher, the character is drawn into its mouth. The tongue has an 18/50 strength, so any creature withlesser strength will eventually be pulled into the maw of the froghemoth, unless the tongue is severed. Any prey resisting the tongue will cause the creature to either grasp it with a tentacle or draw its head to the morsel and eat it that way (50% chance for each). If prey is escaping, the creature will pursue for 2-5 rounds out of the water — but only in the swampy area to the southeast of the lake.
Any searcher will find 1. gem per turn spent searching the bottom of the lake bed. An unassisted diver may remain under water one round. Base value is 100 g.p. per gem. (AN insane technician spread these here after finding crates of them taken from some rich world somewhere. Of course, many are now totally lost under muck, and others are else- where, but not less than 51 nor more than 100canbefoundin the lake.) At the point marked with an "X" the monster has built a nest of treetrunks and debris. Therein can befound bits of skulls and bones, a twisted laser rifle, a poison gas grenade, an atmosphere analyzer (30% chance of being functional), a plastic model of the level, and a metal chest filled with small gold bars (100 bars, each weighing 12.0.) If the chest is carefully examined it will be noted that it has a small compartment in which is a dial. The chest and its contents can be made absolutely weightless for up to one hour per charge of a power disc. Chest capacity is 3 cubic feet.
100 GASBATS: USE ILLUSTRATION #45. AC 8, MV1"/9”, HD %, all other characteristics described specially. These weird plant- animals vaguely resemble bats with the bloat. They are
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Noctumal, using neutral buoyancy to paddle through the night air with green-black, vanes, feeding on small flying creatures such as insects. Every so often the gasbat emits a cloud of vapors from a sack near its terminus, and these vapors cause other small creatures to move slowly and erratically. The creature then circles and devours the prey thusly made helpless. If any light is brought into the place, these creatures will react by flying crazily at it, emitting their vapor clouds in a suicidal manner, forthese fumes are highly explosive, and if any flame is nearby, the vapors and the gasbat will explode causing from 1-6 hit points ofdamageto anyone within a 5’ radius (and totally destroying the gasbat, of course). Their droppings litter the floor, and many strange fungi grow in clumps throughout the wholearea. Consuming the rose and cerise branched growths at X will give the individual the equivalent of haste for 2 rounds. There are 6 of these mushrooms. Baboonoids love these growths. The gasbats rest, floatingnearthe top of the forest, and only light will disturb them
ROBOBAR: Although this no longer functions, there is a 4 gallon container filled with alcohol which can be located after a thorough search. A small panel under a lid on a back counter has several dials and switches. Regardless of which are operated, there will be a grinding noise and a trembling in the area. After severalrounds have passed these effects will cease. Thereafter a section of the outer hull will slide aside to reveal a glassy surface, black and flecked with points of colored light. Has the party somehow been responsible for a reactivation of the vesset? did ittake off? aretheyin deep space? No, they have activated a mechanism which provided a “view” of the stars even when the spaceship was in an uninteresting section of space, by running taped scenes of past stellar spectacles. The whole thing can give Players a few bad moments, however. USE ILLUSTRATION #44,
20. CREW QUARTERS: This area was for on-duty crew to take breaks, eat, nap, or whatever. There are several skeletons, a brown color card, and a paralyzer pistol with 3 charges.
24. CREW ROOM: This chamber was used to store various tools, implements, and items used by the crewmen who kept the gardens and exhibits. Amidst the litter of useless items will be found 100’ ofnearly unbreakable /inseverable rope which is no more bulky than 100’ of normal rope, a pair of 10’ long plasteel poles, a portable spotlight which operates 4 full turn per charge in its power disc (1 charge left), and a 5 gallon back tank with hand pump spray nozzle for spraying weed killer (defoliant). There are 20 quart cans of powder, and if these are mixed with water, the solution becomes adefoliant which causes 2-8 hit points of damage to a large plant — or wipes out a 2’ x 2’ area of ground cover vegetation. The powder will cause 346 damage to any who ingest it. The sprayer ejects but 1 pint per action, any other method of defoliant use requires 1 quatt of liquid to achieve the same effect. Thus, the sprayer can be used 40 times before becoming empty. The nozzle is 3’ long and sprays a distance of 3’. Thereis a 10% chance that each container of defoliant is no longer potent.
22. TRAPPERS: As usual, these creatures pose as the stony/ metallic flags/floor. AC 3, MV 3”, HD 12, hp 69, 64, crushes (4 +
AC ofvictims in h.p. of damage per round) and smothers in 6 aE / Yay, melee rounds; victims unable to use weapons: fire and cold Wy Bh
do only 50% or no damage to trappers, blasters do full 4M, damage. Either of these monsters will await attack until : YY \\ Foy
several characters are upon it. The trapper in the garden area has no treasure, but if it is killed the entrance to the ‘tween decks will be discovered. The one in the sloping passageway to level VI has a laser, jet black card, 3 full power discs, and 2 pieces of jewelty (1,000 - 6,000 gp. value each) hidden beneath it.
77
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED «
KEY TO LEVEL V: SERVICE DECK 6, OR GARDEN ‘TWEEN DECKS
USE ILLUSTRATION #17.
This service area was primarily for the water circulation machinery for the garden deck, purification of this water, spraying, and so forth.
SPLOTCH MARKED AREAS are covered with various colors of perfectly harmless mold — yellowish, greenish, pinkish, and bluish growths in mixed patches.
SOLID AREAS are continuations of the area above. They cannot be entered. Walls are plasteel.
EASTERN AREA FROM NORTH TO SOUTH at the edge of the lake's bulkhead there is an area that is covered with condensation. The floor in this region is covered with small puddles here and there. Anyone running here has a 4 in 6 chance of slipping and falling with the following results:
4-2: stunned for 2-5 rounds
3-4: knocked unconscious for 1-2 turns (head struck metal projection or deck)
5-6: knocked unconscious for 1-3 turns and suffers 1-4 hit points of damage
T. Entryway to deck above. Thesehatchesrequire a brown color card to operate from this side.
SHALLOW POOL: A stream of water from a nearby pipe and dripping water from overhead form a vety shallow pool of water which drains slowly eastwards to the drop terminus tube there. In the western third of the pool dwells a very large slithering tracker: AC 5, MV 12”, HD 5 (treat as a 9 HD monster), hp 40; transparent ‘tracker is impossible to see in the water. This 3%’ long creature will strike like a snake at all who enter the pool, hoping to bring down as much prey as possible, for otherwise it must hunt below. The secretions from this particular creature cause all saving throws to be made at -2
. YELLOW MOLD: Growing overhead, each person 5%’ tall or taller has a 10% chance of roughly contacting it (unless appropriate precautions are taken) and causing spore cloud release. Spore cloud from contact will filla 1” radius sphere, and all within must save versus poison or be choked to death by yellow mold filling their lungs with its growth (Cure disease will negate these effects.)
DAMP FLOOR (GRAY OOZE): AC 8, MV1",HD3 +3, hp 24, 23, 20, 19, 17, 14, #AT 1, D 2-16; spells, cold, and heat (including lasers) do not effect these monsters, but normal weapon attacks, as well as needlers, paralyzers, and blasters, do. Three (even numbers of hit points) are in the western area, three are to the east.
WHEELY SLED: (See level Il key and ILLUSTRATION #48 for details.) This vehicle will malfunction as follows: once used for around, the vehicle will begin to accelerate and its steering mechanism will lock, so no turning is possible. The vehicle will reach whatever rate of speed possible before smashing into something solid. Of course, players can elect to have their characters bail out .
}. REPAIR ROBOT FACILITY: Inside are two worker robots which do not function. If they are carefully examined, it will be discovered that an atmosphere analyzer is bolted to the case of the second, and it canberemoved with relative ease.
43. RADIATION AREA: See key to level |, 13.
”
>
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY TO LEVEL VI: THEATER, ATHLETIC, AND ACTIVITY DECK
‘WANDERING MONSTERS
Encounter occurs 4 in 20, check each turn. 41. 7-42 gasbats (ILLUSTRATION #45)
2. umber hulk
3. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
4. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6)
CARGO HOLDS: Various foodstuffs, stasis cages, and materials such as those previously mentioned are stored. Several encounters occur in these areas according to their numerical designations.
AUDITORIUM: This large place was for general meetings Although it has some rubbish and skeletal remains, it is in generally good repair, and all of its seats are in place and intact, A somewhat tattered curtain screens the south end of the place. Various small creatures will be heard scuttling away when the Party enters.
THEATER: This area was for performance of live plays as well as ‘other forms of live entertainment. There are bones and litter here too, and many small noises to indicate that “critters” live here.
TRAINING: This room is a special encounter (see room 2.).
SWIMMING POOL: In addition to providing recreation, competi- tions were held here — swimming, diving, water polo, water ballet. There is a diving platform at the north (deep) end of the pool.
Pool depths are 4’ at the south and 30’ at the north end, The water appears relatively clean, but itis not clear as the fitration does not function properly.
The seats to the east are littered, and small things dwell there. The dressing rooms to the north are also full of litter and small things.
PATHS: These rooms were for specialneeds —
A- Sauna B - Steamroom C - Whirlpool/mineral
‘GYMNASIUM: This typical gymserved for athletic competitions as well as other athletic activities such as tumbling and jumping. Seats were for spectators during special events. Equipment and mats are piled here and there, and many ratoids now inhabit a stack of mats along the north wall.
‘WORKOUT AREA: This room provided exercise equipment of mechanical nature, weights, etc. These machines and apparatus line the walls.
L: Locker room with rotting garments, lockers, skeletons, etc.
ST: Storage facility for maintenance. Nothing of value or interest, just cleaning devices and compounds, now alll inert. Some ‘are equipment storage for the exercise areas — weights, dumbbells, etc.
NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. LURKER ABOVE: AC 6, MV 1/9", HD 10, hp 62, #AT 4, D 1-6; smothers preyin 2-5 rounds unless slain; surprises on 1-4 (d6). The lurker preys on the small creatures which roam the level, ‘and it has grown quite large, for the robo snack bar still functions, even though all of the lighting systems for the level have been shorted out. Things coming to get a bite to eat there are usually the eaten instead, Beneath the monster are bones, husks, and other remains, but there is no treasure, for it has been taken by 9., below.
. PHYSICAL TRAINING ANDROIDS: There are 3 malfunctioning androids here: AC 3, MV 15”, HD 7, hp 35 each. Note thatthey use monster tables for attack except as noted. As soon as the party enters, the three will approach and speak, telling the party to prepare for training. Even if no translation spell or device is employed, the trio will select opponents and commence “training” exercises:
n
Android 1: USE ILLUSTRATION #46. This is the boxing and wrestling trainer, with an 18/76 strength and 18 dexterity. Itno- longer pulls punches nor looses deadly holds. It will throw combination punches (striking as a 7 HD monster, +2 on “to hit" dice) first in each melee round, unless the opponent is hasted. Damage is 5-12 (d8 + 4) hit points. If its opponent moves close, it will grapple and begin wrestling.
Ifit is determined that the android manages to grapple, the following table is used to find the hold. Note that only the android, because of his programming, may use this table. Opponents must use the table found in the DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. Furthermore, all damage that the android does counts towards death and not unconsciousness. As the android cannot go unconscious, any character grappling with him will do only % the stated damage.
%Roll Result Damage Hold or less
broken 1-25 No hold
26-45 Forearm smash 1-4 points Waist clinch
46-60 Elbow smash 2-5 points Waist clinch
61-70 Strangle hold Deadin 3rounds Any hold
71-75 Arm dislocated 1-4 points, 2 Bear hug
weeks to heal 76-80 Leg broken 1-8 points, 2 Hand lock months to heal 81-85 Eardrums ruptured Deaf Arm lock 86-90 Eye gouged out 1-6 points, no Any hold
depth perception, -2 on all attacks
91-95 Nose bitten off 4-3 points, charisma Any hold drops to 3 Over 95 Neck broken Dead
For the purpose of determining whether a character may break a hold, a strangle hold is the only grip the android will maintain for more than one round. It may be broken in the standard manner.
Android #2: USE ILLUSTRATION #47. This is the fencing instructor. It is armed with a faulty epee which delivers electrical damage of 2-5 hit points whenever a hit is scored — or even on a miss if the opponent has metallic armor! The epee will so malfunction for 6 rounds only. The android does 5-14 (d6 + 3) hit points of other damage when hitting. It gets 3 attacks per round (beginning, middle, end) or 2 attacks and a middle parry which reduces the opponent's die roll by-4 if the opponent is sword armed. Its mask and padding allow it to sustain an additional 15 hit points of damage, i.e. 50rather than the standard 35. It attacks as a 43th level fighter when using its sword. If disarmed, it attacks as a normal android.
Android #3: USE ILLUSTRATION #48. This is the karate master. If its opponent is able to communicate with if, and suggests that its discipline is inferior to boxing, it will go absolutely berserk and attack android #41. Otherwise, it will attack — twice per round, doing 7-16 (3d4 + 4) hit points of damage when hitting with hit probability based on that of a 9 HD monster, +2 on die rolls. The karate master will stun its opponent for 2-5 melee rounds on any modified die roll of20 (that is results of 18-20 on d20). It will ignore a stunned opponent and attack another character, but it willfirst disarm the stunned person, tossing the weapons into the ST area. Note: If the karate master and the boxing trainer fight, they will destroy each other.
The storage room is a mess of bones and junk. In this litter will be found a personal diary with an account of the coloniza- tion expedition and fatal plague (this is written in an unknown language, of course, but if can be magically read with comprehend languages). There are also some worthless Paper scraps, a smashed worker robot, an anti-grav belt with écharges on its power disc, and 4 pieces of jewelry (400 g.p., 900 g.p., 1,500 g.p., and 3,000 g.p.).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
3. EYE OF THE DEEP: AC 5, MV //6”, HD 10, hp 39, #AT 3, D 2-8/2-8 (pincers) /1-6 (bite); 3” long, 2” base diameterlightflash from central eye stuns those failing to save vs. poison for 2-8 founds; hold monster and hold person spells from smaller Pair of eyestalks separately, or illusion spell together. The creature is very intelligent and is only man-sized due to factors detailed below.
During the plague madness, a whole laboratory aquarium tank was ordered dumped into the swimming pool by an insane technician, and of course the worker robots obeyed. This carefully watched tank contained several dozen tiny monsters taken from some strange world, and one managed to survive the transition to (nearly) fresh water — the eye ofthe deep. Subsequent dumpings added food creatures to the Pool, so the monster could feed and grow. Although the water is too shallow and not oftheproper chemical balance, the eye’ manages to get along, although it is small and stunted despite its decades of age. It preys upon the smaller inhabitants of the pool (blind crayfish, fish, turtles, snails, etc.) and anything coming down to its waters to drink. The monster dwells in the deeper northern half of the pool, and when the party approaches, it will cast an illusion that it isa jumble of bones lying upon the bottom.
Viewers will see several human skeletons in the swimming Pool, one with a glinting metal tube which contains blue- prints of the outer hull of the whole starship, with an explana- tory note as to its purpose in an unknown tongue. There are 27 10 gp. base value gems, 341 p.p., and a gem encrusted necklace (10,000 g.p.) visible on the floor of the pool. The eye of the deep will watch and wait. At the best time, it will fiash a light beam with its central eye in orderto dazzle the bulk of the party, while it attacks a smaller portion by charm and weaponry.
|. 2 SHEDU: AC 4, MV 12/24", HD 9 +9, hp 52, 48, #AT2,D 1-6/1-6; 25% magic resistant; exceptionally intelligent, larger than man-sized. Psionic strength: 100, 80. Abilities:
>
shedu #4 shedu #2 body equilibrium cell adjustment cell adjustment clairaudience detection of good/evil empathy detection of magic esP
invisibility levitation levitation mind over body mind over body object reading molecular agitation recognition sensitivity to psi. aura alteration suspend animation mind bar
body control telekinesis
energy control telepathic projection dimension door mind bar
shape alteration
All powers are peiformed at 9th level of mastery.
As with most of the other creatures aboard, these were freed from stasis, but in this case due to a malfunctioning worker robot. The ship's malfunctioning hyper-dimensional force fields prevent their escape by etherial-astral means, and they fear to travel around the ship, for they know it has very dangerous creatures. The hold they are in extends under the tiers of seats (dotted line shows this extension) in the swim- ming pool area, and the 2 shedu dwell in this hidden area, using the small north door for occasional forays. If the party is friendly and promises to show them how to get out of the ship immediately, the shedu will tell them where there are 6 power discs and a red card, and warn them that there is a mind flayer loose in the northwest (“in the large halkwith- many-seats area”). If the party is non-friendly (such as sending a nonlawtul good person to converse with them), the shedu,will tend to ignore the party. If they are attacked,
the shedu will use their psionic powers (although theyhateto do so in this place) to counter — energy control, telepathic projection, telekinesis, and molecular agitation being the most likely. Once attacked, the shedu will never befriend any member of the party. They will flee if the encounter is likely to bring them to certain destruction, but there is only a 1% chance per searcher that their treasure will be found during each round of such searching by the party.
5. 4 DOPPLEGANGERS: AC 5, MV 9", HD 4, hp 30, 27, 24, 20, #AT4, D 1-12; surprise on 41-4; very intelligent; man-sized. ESP/imitate with 90% accuracy to mimic and gain free melee rounds if unable to kill and take the person's place; dopplegangers save as if they were 10th level fighters.
These four creatures left their fellows above for greener Pastures and eventually ended up residingin the BATHS area. Whenever any creature steps into the front part of this complex, robo mechanisms cause the various baths to begin functioning, so the party will enter room A, the sauna, when it is filled with rolling steam. The dopplegangers will wait here, or in the regular steam bath room (8), and attack 4 members of the party by surprise — roll dé for the number of free strikes which each doppleganger is entitled to. Determine if it knocks its opponent unconscious by usingthe pummeling table (automatic chance to hit during free rounds). Those knocked out will be killed on the following round (drowning in the whirlpool bath area is favored), and the doppleganger will then take the person's place in the patty, immediately working to slay the others. If any are spotted, the other dopplegangers will still use their imitative powers to confound the party. Hidden under a rotting heap of clothing in the lockerroomare 12.50 g.p. gems, a healing spray cannister with 4 charges (2-24 h.p. healing percharge), a paralyzer pistol with 1 charge in its power disc, and a ring worth 1,200 g.p. Thereis an obvious suit of powered armor, but it is non-functioning. A small pouch clipped to the back of the armor contains an incendiary grenade and a clip fora needler.
6. PHYSICAL FITNESS ANDROID: USE ILLUSTRATION #49, Another malfunctioning android awaits the party herein. As soon as the party enters it will spring into action. There are a number of plates for bar bells, dumbbells, and other heaw objects nearby, and the android will hurl these at the parly. These missiles strike as 7 HD monsters, causing 2-20 hit points of damage when they hit. A score of 20 “to hit” means the victim has a broken limb (determine randomly). All the while the android is throwing these objects it will be shouting: “WORK UP A SWEAT THERE!”, “CATCH Butterfingers”, “LET’SHAVE SOME HUSTLE!”, and “You'll never make the team THAT way!". if the android is disabled and taken apart, a workable language translator will be gained.
7. TRAPPED ANDROID and 40 GASBATS: Android standard specs. Gasbats: AC 8, MV 1"/9", HD % These flatulent plant-animal suicide bombs conform to the statistics given for 49., level Ill. They enter and emerge from the hold via a small opening high in the east wall (a plate blasted away and never noticed).
The android is pinned under a veryheavwy crate which shifted and trapped it. It has been thus for many, many years, and it has shut itself down and only comes to alert when noise ‘occurs nearby. The worker robots ignore it. It was a body- guard for an important political official aboard, and when its master went insane, it followed him in his wondering. Eventually, the human died, here in a narrow aisle of the cargo hold, and as the android was carrying the body out the accident occured, The skeleton of the official is nearby. Amidst its tattered rags is a belt with a gray card, a power disc, and 20 base 100 g.p. gems. When the party comes near the android will call weakly for help, slowly moving an empty laser pistol back and forth as its circuits warm up from its self. induced shut down. Ifthe party does not attack it, the android
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
can be freed and enlisted as a bodyguard for its rescuers. Naturally, any damage it sustains can never be regained as the repair section for androids is not part ofthis module of the ship.
5 SHRIEKERS: The area has been filled with rubbish and materials for these creatures to feed on by the mind flayer (9., below). These fungi, arid some others growing in the humus, attract other creatures as well, so waiting above are 4 piercers of huge size: AC 3, MV 1”, (but drop quickly), HD 4, hp 26, 24, 19, 19, *AT 4, D 4-24, The noise of the shriekers alerts the piercers, and 9. as well,
9. MIND FLAYER: USE ILLUSTRATION on cover of artbook to depict this monster. AC 5, MV 12”, HD 8 +4, hp 43, 4 tentacle attacks for 2 hit points of damage each; mind blast; 90% magic resistance: genius, man-sized. Psionic strength is 257 Psionic abilities are:
body equilibrium domination ESP levitation astral projection probability travel Abilities are at 7th level of mastery
It is likely that this creature was taken when it was using probability travel. It is kept on the ship by the force fields. During the course of its living upon the vessel the mind flayer has accumulated:
+ an orange card - a blaster pistol with 1 charge left - a portable spotlight - 1 poison and 2 sleep gas grenades - 37 base 10 g.p. gems - 5 pieces of jewelry (1,000 - 6,000 gp. value) + 109 p.p. All but the spotlight are on the creature's body. There is a 10% chance that it will be away, checking up onthe shedu, which it hates and fears. If the mind fiayer is away, there is a 20% chance per turn that it will come back. As soon as it hears the shriekers — or sees intruders — the monster will attack. As it fears to use its psionic strength, it will use the blaster and grenades, hoping they will suffice. If given warning, the mind flayer will set up the spotlight, with a trip cord by the north door, so that when the party is in the PROPS section they will trigger the light (about the position of the second P in PROPS). The mind flayer will then cut loose with its blaster, hurl grenades, andheadeast, then through the south door, west, and back through the auditorium service doors (staying behind the curtain), if all opponents are not killed by the first weapons used. Sneaking up from behind, the mindflayer will give the party a mind blast as a last resort. 410. 6 WORKER ROBOTS: USE ILLUSTRATION #50. This cargo hold is nearly empty, for it contained many stasis cages, and these worker robots have been periodically ordered to unload such by the computer. They are shut downnow, although the computer can reactivate them at any time. Ifthe party enters the hold there is a 10% chance per round that this very thing will happen! If it does, the robots will grind to action, tossing the characters out through the open cargo hatch. If they resist, or attempt to re-enter, the workers will summon 5-8 other workers to aid them, as well as 2-5 police robots. these reinforcements will arrive in 2-5 rounds. When the characters are all out of the hold, the robots will toss out a stasis cage containing a bulette, and shut the hatch. USE LLUSTRATION #51, The bulette will be out of stasis the next round.
VARIOUS EXPLANATORY MATERIAL IS FOUND HEREAFTER.
This completes the EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIERPEAKS. Wehope you and your players have found it amusing and challenging!
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED
20
TECHNOLOGICAL ITEMS
In this section are found tables for the DM to use for determining the successful use of any technological itemfound on the ship. Following these tables are descriptions of the weapons and major items on board. Information necessary for the DM is given and some descriptions are included to be given to the players. These descriptions are couched in terms that reflect the characters ignorance of advanced technology. The DM is encouragedto show the appropriate picture andtodescribe the steps taken whenever players attemptto leam the use ofanitem.
DETERMINATION OF PROPER USE
Whenever a new itemis discovered, the character may operateit ormerely stowit forlaterinspection. Anyattemptto.use such items must use a flow chart to simulate ignorance. Four charts are given below. The first two are for simple and complex non-lethal items. The second pai are for simple and complex lethal items. Place a marker at the start position, and have the character roll a d10, ‘once for each round spent working with the item. He or she may elect to stop before any roll, beginning at the start again the next day, but once the die is rolled RESULTS ARE FINAL FOR THAT STEP. Modifiers to the roll are:
- intelligence less than 10 +4
- intelligence over 15 “4 - like or similar object observed in operational procedures A
- previous explanation of operation of item by one familiar with it 2 - operated a similar item previously 2 All modifications are cumulative. Negative die rolls are not possible.
Several persons are allowedtotryto discover the properties ofany item as long as it remains functional. Once one character learns how to use an item, he orshemayinstructothersin its use — 1 turn for simple items, 6 turns for complex ones.
Chart I: Simple Non-Lethal Items
ited ly
OO
ik 4-7 °
Charge/
use wasted ITEMS USING THIS CHART: “ Woundhea it iste ae
joundhealing cannister
Portable spotiight Sesroved Language translator Atmosphere analyzer Anti-grav belt
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Chart Il: Complex Non-Lethal Items. Chart Ill: Simple Lethal tems
person is hurt*
ITEMS USING THIS CHART: Fire extinguisher Blasterpistol Laser pistol ITEMS USING THIS CHART: vent Laser site a Wheely sled destroyed jeedier pis! Divina oenapiiart Paralysis pistol Diving jet pack Grenades Chart IV: Complex Lethal Items w® Pe t4 % . C) <a ~ 90 ITEMS USING THIS CHART: ae ae Power armor 83 Blaster rifle
use wasted |<
“Grenade explodes, pistol discharges (50% chance that it hits handler, 50% for any creature within range at random, if applicable), etc.
24
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNHATED e« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
WEAPONS DATA
Blaster Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #52. Range: $=3", M=6", L=9”
Area of Effect: 1’ beam
Power Disc Drain: 4/use
Rate of Fire: 2/round
Damage: 5-30 hit points
Save: Unarmored = % damage; armored = no damage (but save for armor required)
When found, this item will usually be folded. It weighs about 1% Ibs, and will unfold to about 1 foot. Itis composed ofa U-shaped section of metal rod with a black rivet on one end and an attached piece of thick glass mounted in a frame. This glass is about the size of a hand mirror. On one side of the frame are 2 raised discs, while on the otheris a fine mesh, mounted on a rod. The two sides of the glass are dark on one side (the firing side) and clear on the other (the viewing side). In the hinge joining the handle and glass frame is a slot about the size of a coin.
The pistol is operated by turning the top dial. On the viewing side of the screen, crosshairs and range figures (in an unreadable language) will appear. The second dial will magnify the scene slightly. Once atargetis selected, the pistolisfired by pressingthe black button in the handle.
Saving throw is versus petrifaction. Armor which does not save is effectively destroyed. Each time armoris hit by ablasterits saving throw is adjusted thereafter by -3 cumulative, or in the case of a shield, -2 and the shield is destroyed (or no minuses forthe armor but a +2 shield is destroyed), ie. the armor is being destroyed in the process of saving its wearer. Shields of less than +3 value are always destroyed from the first hit by a blaster.
Blaster Rifle: USE ILLUSTRATION #53. Range: $=5", M=10", L=15”
Area of Effect: 1’ beam or special Power Disc Drain: 2/use
Rate of Fire: 4/round
Damage: Disruption or special Save: Alll vs petrifaction see below
As with the blaster pistol, this item will also be usually found in a folded-up state, about 1%’ long. When unfolded, it is about 3’ long. It weighs nearly 5 Ibs. It appears to consist of jointed metal rods, a curved metal plate, a hardened leather band or collar and a pane of glass, framed and mounted on the end ofarod. There is a black rivet at the end of the U-shaped rod. The metal Plate has 3raised, colored bars — black, white, andred — anda coin-shaped slot above them. There is a blue rivet on the side above the collar. The band is made of a hardened leather or horn-like material, fashionedinto overlapping plates. No stitching may be seen. The glass is thick and dark on both sides. On one side of the frame is a metal mesh mounted on a small rod.
22
The rifie must first be unfolded and then the left arm is thrust through the collar. This band will automatically constrict to a firm grip so that the gun need not be held constantly. It will onty release when the blue button is pushed. The rifle activates when ‘one of the colored settings is pushed. The black button on the U- shaped handle is pushed to fire. The shot originates from the screen.
The effects of the settings are:
BLACK — Disruption beam setting usable to maximum range. This beam will vaporize anything short of hull metal when it hits. The beam affects up to six cubic feet of material. When an individual creature is the target a save is applicable. Shields are automatically de- stroyed, armor and protection devices must also be saved for. If save is successful individual takes 5-30 hit points, and saving throws forarmorand/orprotection devices is at -5 against next blaster (pistol or rifle) attack. Target creatures are stunned for 1-4 rounds despite saving
Heat beam setting effective out to medium range. A wave of heat sweeps out in a 4’ beam, and alll in its path must save. Metallic armor reduces saving throw by -7, shields by -2, but magical bonuses are added, ie. magic plate (+3) and shield (+3) would reduce the chance of saving by 9, but magical bonuses (+6 in this example) adjust that to only a -3, Creatures failing to save are melted, those saving take 5-20 hit points of damage and lose 1-6 points of strength for 4-6 turns due to heat exhaustion.
Flame plane setting effective only to short range. A horizontal plane cuts a triangular area out to 5” (weapon's short range), with a 2%" base. Inflam- mable materials in this plane start burning, and creatures take either 4-24 hit points of damage or 2-42 hit points if they successfully save. This setting does not lower armor values against successive saving throws, as it does not harm armor.
WHITE —
RED —
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Laser Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #54.
Range: $=4", M=8", L=12”
Area of Effect: Thin beam
Power Disc Drain: '4/use
Rate of Fire: 2/round
Damage: 2-16 hit points + AC of target creature Save: $ = -8, M =-4,L = normal; no damage
This appears as aheaw armbandwith 2 projections, both about 6" long. One projection ends in a black leather grip. The other ends in a smooth, cone-shaped red stone, much like ajewel, with a slightly silvery end. There is a coin-sized slot at the base of this projection. Inside the armband are a number of overlapping plates. The entire thing is encased in a white, shell-like material.
The pistolis operated by inserting the hand through the band and applying firm pressure to the grip. The plates in the band will gently close on the wrist to hold it in place, although the hand may be slipped out with care. The beam will originate from the end of the second projection, the ruby rod.
Asaving throw must be made against petrifaction for each shot. Each hit which is not saved against has a 10% chance of damaging a member: 1 =head (dead), 2-3/arm orfore-member (making it useless until healed), 4-8 = leg or rear member (also making it useless until healed). Alaserbeam will cut through 1” of bulkhead or deck metal along a 1’ path each time it is aimed ‘and fired at short range. Comparatively, it will cut through six inches of steel or 1’ of iron along a 1’ line. Negative armor classes teduce damage. Dexterity is excluded for AC calculation.
Laser Rifle: USE ILLUSTRATION #55.
Range: S=6", M=12", L=24"
Area of Effect: Thin beam
Power Disc Drain: 1/use
Rate of Fire: 2/turn
Damage: 2-20 hit points + AC of target creature
Save: $ = -6, M = -4, L = normal; no damage
In appearance this is quite similar to the laser pistol, althoughon alarger scale. The thingis made of the same shelt-like material. Thetwo projections are the same, but longer, and the shorter one has a black rivet placed forward of the grip. One major difference is that instead of a single armband there are now 2. Both bands are lined with overlapping metal plates. There is a glass crystal or gem on the section connecting the 2 armbands. The second armband extends to form a point on one side. A smooth rope comes out of the thing just ahead of this band and connectstoa Mail coif and visor. This Coif is of a sof, lightweight metal. The visor has thick, smoky pieces of glass mounted in a frame.
The laser riffle is worn and operated in much the same way as the laser pistol (i.e. the forearm is slipped in, the plates contract, and the grip squeezes to fire). However, the mesh hood and glasses must also be usedforeffectivefire. The glasses will project a ghost- like image of what the laser rifle “sees” through its camera eye. The button in the grip will turn the camera on oroff. If the laser tifie is used without the camera, all saves made by the target will be at +2. It is possible at all times to see normally, ignoring the ghost
images.
23
Each shotmust be savedvs. petrifaction, Failure results in a hit. Hits not saved against have a 10% chance of member damage as per a laser pistol (q.v.). Metal cutting rate is the samelength asa pistol, but the thickness cut is double that of the pistol. Negative armor classes reduce damage. Dexterity is excluded from AC calculation.
D-'80 Needier Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #56. Range: S=1", M=2”, L=3”
Area of Effect: 1” diameter or 5’ diameter pattern Power Disc Drain: Not applicable
Rate of Fire: 1 burst/round
Damage: 1-6 hit points/needie
Save: Special
This could perhaps be a potion bottle or a flask strapped to a number of tubes. The base of the bottle (actually the handle) has silvery lid with a knob in the center. The bottle flask is bound in black leather and silver. Fromthetop ofthis, a broad metal band encircles a number oftubes. Out one end stick 3large projecting tubes, while the other has buta single tube, with a small hole inits end. There is a fiuted knob on the side with a line across its top. There are 2 markings above it — a small dot and big O.
The pistol operates by pointing the single tube at the target and squeezing the handle. After each burst the 3tubesinthe back will pump in air, creating a slight suction. Ifthe knobin the base ofthe handle is twisted and pulled, a compartment will open for the needier clip. Itwillseemto be a small drawer and clips will appear as small, lacquered wood boxes. A clip may not be opened except by smashing.
The butt-loading clip holds 10 cluster cartridges. Each cartridge contains 10 needle-like projectiles which burst after penetration ‘or upon flattening. The selector switch on the left of the receiver housing can be set for narrow or broad pattern — a small dot ora big O. On narrow pattem, the target creature will take from 5-8 (d4 +4) needles. On broad pattem the various targets will each take 1- 2 needle hits, with a maximum of five possible creatures hit, regardless of the number of missiles accounted for (as few as 5 Possible). The maximum damage received from each needle is dictated by the AC of the target creature, ie. 6 hit points if AC is 6 or worse, 5 if AC 5, 4 if AC 4, 3 if AC 3, 2 if AC 2, 1 if AC 1, and NO DAMAGE if AC 0 or better’. Magical protections are considered for AC calculation, but dexterity is excluded. At medium range reduce the number of needles striking a single target creature by 2; at long range reduce the number by 4. On broad pattern
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
setting there is no range penalty, but it will only be effective to medium range. “Optionally, you may give the target creature a saving throw regardless of armor. Ifa score of 1 on d20 is rolled, an eye hit has occurred, and the creature takes 12 hit points and permanently loses the eye (unless a regenerating creature).
—
Paralysis Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #57.
Range: S=2", M=4”, L=6"
Area of Effect: 6” long cone, 3” base diameter
Power Disc Drain: 1/use
Rate of Fire: 1/round
Damage: Total paralysis or slowed movement
Save: Special
This looks like a glass bottle or retort with a pimpled or warty surface and a black handle on one side. Inside the bottle may be seen threads, wires, globes, and a rod. The broad end of the bottle has a rounded metal plate with several brass prongs Sticking out of it. The narrow end is capped with a silver sheath and golden ball. The black handle has a round panel, largerthan a coin, with a rivet in the center.
The pistol is fired by squeezing the handle, pointing the broad end of the pistol toward the target. When fired there will be a humming noise and many flashing lights and sparks will go off inside. A small number of sparks will shoot from the golden ballat the narrow end, but the rayfrom the other end will be invisible. If the small button in the handle is pushed, the raised disc will pop open, revealing a spot fora power disc.
Paralysis lasts 3 turns at shortrange, 2 at mediumrange and 4 at long range. A successful saving throw at short range indicates that paralysis will last only 2-12 rounds. At medium range a successful save means thatthe target creature is paralyzed for 1-4 rounds and slowed to half movement and attack for 4-4 rounds thereafter. At long range a successful save means the creature is slowed for 4-4 rounds. Note: Slowed creatures lose all dexterity bonuses. Slowed creatures struck by the paralysis ray are automatically paralyzed for 4 to 3 turns according to the range.
24
Grenades: USE ILLUSTRATION #58.
Range: 8’ maximum/strength point Area of Effect: 10’ radius sphere Rate of Fire: 1/round
Damage: By type of grenade Save: Special
These are about the size of a large apple or similar fruit, indented all around for grasping. They are smooth and featureless, except for2 rivets — alarge and a small one. Around the larger one are 3 markings in an unknown tongue.
The larger is a setting to determine time of explosion — 3, 4, or 5 second delay according to what setting the button is set to. The second button must be depressed, given a half turn, and depressed again. Thereafter, when the grenade is hurled, the arming pin springs out, and in 2-5 seconds the missile will explode.
Area hit is determined by rolling regular “to hit" dice. All hits and misses land and explode somewhere. Use “grenade-like missiles” rules to determine location of miss (AD&D DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE).
EXPLOSIVE — 5-10 hit points damage to all within blast tadius. Save equals half damage. All with- in the blast are stunned for 1-4 rounds and deafened for 1-4 turns. Creatures within a 20' radius are stunned for 1 round and deafened for 1-4 rounds. If the grenade is enclosed in a container of normal material (not ship's hull metal) oflessthan specially designed anti-explosive con- struction, the detonation will throw shrap- nel in a 20’ radius, and all within will take 0-9 additional hit points of shrapnel damage — used10,0means no shrapnel hit.
All air breathing creatures within the 10° blast radius must save versus poison or die. Those saving will be nauseated and unable to engage in combat for 1-6 rounds. The cloud of poisonous vapors persist for 6 rounds in a stagnant area, but in ventilated areas it will be gone in 2 rounds. In windy situations it will last only ‘one round. The grenade cannot be used effectively in very windy situations.
All air breathing creatures within the radius of effect must save versus poison or in- stantly fall into a comatose slumber lasting 2-5 tums. Those saving must make @ second save even though no longer within the area on the following round. (This reflects persistent qualities of the gas.) Cloud persistence is the same asfor Poison gas.
All creatures in the blast radius take 2-12 hit points of damage, no saving throws allowed, and all materials within the area which are inflammable are set afire. Next round, and for 1-3 rounds thereafter, each creature originally within the blast area will sustain an additional 1-6 hit points of damage from residual chemi- cals burning. Each skin of water used will reduce damage by 1 hit point, and total immersion will negate residual burns.
GAS, POISON —
GAS, SLEEP —
INCENDIARY —
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
MISCELLANEOUS DEVICES DATA
Powered Armor: USE ILLUSTRATION #59.
Armor Class: 0
Move: 6” = 1" (clear hop in any direction possible)
Force Shield: SOhit points damage before shutting down, restored
at 1 point per round Hit Points of Armor: 50 Power: Equals 18/00 strength in grasping andlifting, anti-grav as per belt
Weaponry: Laser pistol built into right arm of armor above hand; fires when chin lever triggered — all specs same as normal laser pistol
Powered armor looks like a suit of unusual plate armor. The joints appear to be finely, if somewhat strangely, articulated and an oily, black, leather-like material may be seen at major joints. The armor appears to have been worked to create the illusion of a heavily muscled man. The great heim is unusual in that it has no. ‘openings, only a broad glass plate in the front with a piece of glass above this, There are strange plates and tubing at various points and large metal bosses seem to be placed randomly on the suit. On the back ofthe left hand is a rectangular metal box. From this comes a short projecting rod tipped with a cone- shaped red crystal or jewel. It would seem there must be a man inside, for the armor always stands erect although unmoving.
The armor is opened by pressing two separate buttons con- cealed at the rear of the helmet beneath its lip. Pressing both buttons at the same time will pop open a seal downthe middle of the back of the armor. A person may then climb into the armor, feet first, double over and slip his or her head and arms into the ‘Suit. Then, by arching his or her back, the armor will reseal itself. The release catches may be reached while wearing the suit, but it will take a round to operate.
Powered armor is completely sealed and will withstand vacuum or pressure equal to 1,000 feet of water. Air system provides oxygen for 8 hours of continuous use, recharging at 4 hour per hour of non-use. No gasses or viral contaminants can enter the suit.
When the force shield is at 0, damage sustained is taken by the armor itself. When the armor reaches 0 it is non-functional in all systems. Damage accruing beyond that point goes to the person inside.
The anti-grav system in the armor allows the wearer to become weightless and float upwards or downwards at 2” perround. The wearer can carry up to 500 additional pounds ofweight when so. doing. Anti-gray will function for 6 tums, 3 if carrying additional weight, of continuous operation. For each round of operation it must recharge 4 turn. When power is down to 1 turn of operation the suit will issue a low pinging sound, and a small orange panel will light up; pinging will recur every round thereafter, and the Panel light will flash during the last round of operation before the Power fails.
The armor will immediately fall, but a small reserve charge will Prevent injury to the wearer, although the powered armor itselfwill sustain damage equal to 50% of its remaining hit points.
Powered armor has built-in atmosphere analysis equipment with @ readout panel above the vision area; it also has built-in language translators. Hearing in the armor is 200% human normal, and infrared visual sensors allow vision to 42". The suit is screened so as to make it 90% unlikely to be seen infravisually.
The wearer of the suit does not become fatigued as normal. Continuous operationforperiods of aslong as 8 hoursis possible.
Powered armor does not use power discs. It is only rechargeable at specialized terminals. None of these terminals exist on this part
ofthe ship.
25
Anti-grav Bett: Move: Float upwards or downwards at 3”/round Load Limit: 500 pounds
Power Disc Drain: 4 charge ‘turn
This item appears to be a strangely crafted girdie, hung with odd ornaments and three leathery straps. It has no apparent clasp to open the girdle, though the front bears a large, embossed disc.
The belt is opened by giving the disc a quarterturn clockwise and pressing in upon the boss. in the back of the embossing is a circular indentation the size of a coin. Apower disc may be fitted into this recess. The belt is activated by turning the boss counter- clockwise half a turn and pushing inwards.
Note that this device can be used to make an object up to 500 pounds weigh only as much as a 1 pound object, but the mass will still be that of a 500 pound object.
Underwater Swimming Gear: USE ILLUSTRATION #26.
Armor Class: 7
Move: 6” - (42" for six rounds with gas jets)
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/ turn
This appears to be a bizarre set of armor. The armor consists of a padded undersuit of an odd, black leather-like material. The Padded suit is reinforced with plate mail at the knees, elbows and shoulder. Over the padded armor is worn a very weighty girdle and loin protectors. Across the chest is worn an odd breastplate with a box attached to it, while the back half bears a strangely shaped pack. The helmet seems impractical, a bubble-shaped sphere mounted on a flexible neck piece made of the same material as the suit. The helmet is attached to the breast box by several cords. Lastly, there are a pair of slippers with elongated, ribbed toes, about two feet long.
This is a set of underwater diving gear, with a wetsuit and breathing apparatus, set inthe front chest plate, and propulsion device, housed in the backpack. The breathing apparatus is a rebreather attached to the helmet by way of the tubes. Itis turned ‘on by pressing the right button on the front of the box and shut off by pushing the left button. The front of this housing may be detached revealing cradles for wo power discs. The breathing apparatus will function for9 turns andthena buzzingwillsoundto: indicate that 3 turns of time remain before the pack must be recharged
The propulsion device is operated by the lever triggerto the left of the buttons on the chest box. This consists of a gas jet that will Propel the wearer under water at a 12” movement rate for 6 rounds before becoming useless. If used on the surface, it will cause an uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after one round of hopping and then turned back on. It can not be recharged.
The swim fins are independent from the rest of the suit. When in water they will react tothe swimmer's motions andexpandinto 8” wide fins.
The suit may be used like a gas mask while the breathing ‘apparatus functions, making the wearer impervious to gas.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Gas Mask:
Armor Class: Treat as a leather helmet
Special Defense: makes wearer immune to the effects of gases which must be breathed
This appears to be some sort of ceremonial mask. Itis made of a leather-like material and has several straps attached. A silvery metal plate covers the area of the eyes, but this does not seem to impair vision from the inside of the mask. There are no openings for mouth or nose though the mask has been shaped to accommodate a nose and chin. At the base of the mask a cylindrical metal tube is attached and metal cords run from this tube up into the metal-framed mouth and nose region.
The mask's eyepiece is a one-way mirror and permits sight out of the mask, but others can not see in. At night or in dark surroundings this mask will reduce the range of vision by 10’. The mirrored viewer will also act as gaze reflection, but this does not make the wearer impervious to gaze attacks.
Atmosphere Analyzer: USE ILLUSTRATION #60.
Range: Radiation = 6”, Gas = 4", Mold/Spores = 2”.
Power Disc Drain: +4 charge/use
A gray slab of a material similar to horn, this is about the size of a necklace case. In one side are three windows, all rectangular in shape. Behind each is a strip of colored paper. The papers are all white on one end and shade into another color at the other end. The window to the left is white shading to yellow, the middie window is white shading to purpie, and the paperbehind the right window is white shading to green. Over each window is mounted a translucent jewel, the same color as the colored paper of that window. At the front of the slab is a series of small holes. On the back is a narrow panel set in a groove. Sliding it will reveal a slot about the size of a gold coin.
The caseis only %’wide, 4’ long, andabouta thumb's width thick. The windows are rolling gauges indicating concentrations of impurities in the air by rolling forward to darker shades of color. The yellow gauge detects spore and pollen content, the purple gauge measures intensity of radiation, and the green gauge indicates the presence of gases. Purple, green, and/or yellow lights glow accordingly. Bulkheads which are non-radioactive will screen what is behind them as far as radiation count is concerned. Likewise, sealed areas will not affect the gas or spore registers.
Language Translator: USE ILLUSTRATION #61.
Range: 6”
Power Disc Drain: 4 charge/turn of use
This is a club- or hatchet-shaped device with a metal dish onone end where the blade should be. Across the back are 2 colored Plates — red and blue. Above these is a fine metal net, setin the handle. In the butt is a fine crack going all around the handle.
The red button is for receiving, there will be a 4 turn delay for first analysis of a foreign tongue; and the blue button is pushed for transmitting. A pull on the base opens the power disc compart- ment. The translation will analyze the closest/ loudest speaker in its range.
Portable Spotlight: USE ILLUSTRATION #62. Range: 120 yards
Area of Effect: 10’ diameter beam
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/tum of use
When closed, the spot forms a 4’ cube and weighs about 10 Ibs. It is openat one endand has arecessed grip inthe top. Inside may be seen an X formed by jointedrods, a box with a wheel and 2 fivets on it, and a coil of smooth, oily appearing rope. The other end holds around glass panel, raised slightly, setin the surface of the box.
26
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
When opened, the rods will telescope out to form a stand for the spot. The head section will extend up to 8’ high. Each leg has clamped to it a spike and a smooth leather patch (an adhesive patch) and ends in a side of the box. The black rope (10’ cable) connects the detachable control box to the spot. The wheel controls elevation/depression/rotation, one button is the on/off control, and the second button activates magnetic clamps. A slot in the side of the control box holds a power disc. It has a special polarizing lens. Turning it a quarter tum will change the light to infrared, allowing infravision to 120’.
Repair Robot Remote Control Box:
Range: 18”
Function: Summons one worker robot and allows transmission of verbal orders
Size: 3” x 5"
Power Disc Drain: % charge/turn
This appears to be a brown metal box about the size of a
tinderbox, with violet labels. When the hinged cover is lifted inside
a panel of white horn-like material will beseen. Inthe center ofthe
Panel is set a metal mesh screen the size of a coin, while in the
upper right comer is set a small blue gem. At the base of this
screen a black square is set.
This device is used to summon one worker robot within range to. the immediate vicinity of the holder. The ship’s computer moderates which robot will respond if more than one are within range or else the closest one will respond. By pressing the black square the device is activated and a worker will arrive within 1-4 turnsif any are available. Once a worker robot has arrived it may be given verbal commands if someone depresses the black button and speaks into the metal grid in a language the robot can comprehend. The back panel may be removed and a cradle for a power disc may be found.
This device has its own store of power but for each turn of operation there is a 2% cumulative chance that the power pack will drain, causing the blue light to flash. In 1-40rounds the remote will go dead. Any power disc will reduce the chance offailure by 5% per charge in the disc, but eventually this will drain too.
Power Disc:
This is a blue colored glass or slate disc the size ofa coin. One side is smooth and unmarked, the other side has awhite, arced band, marked like a sundial with 5 lines. Ataut thread rests on one of the lines (or at either end, depending on the charge). These discs are designed to be fitted into the various slots and holders of the weapons and equipment.
Power discs are energy storage units or batteries whichwere used to power the various devices on the ship. A fully charged power disc holds 6 charges and the needle of the gauge will be all the way to the right, ifnot malfunctioning. Power discs found in ship Stores will normally be fully charged, but the charges of those found scattered about the ship should be determined randomly by rolling a d6. Power discs may be inserted either side up when installed in a device. Different devices will have different rates of power use and this is noted undereach devices Power Disc Drain. Itrequires 2 roundsto change the power disc in adeviceonceitis discovered how to make the change.
Wound Healing Cannister: USE ILLUSTRATION #63.
Wound healing cannisters appear as smooth, featureless gourds. They are indented on one side to fashion a grip, flat on the bottom, and have a small neck curving out ofthe other end. This neck ends in a hole. On the back of the neck is a rivet. On the flat bottom is a sundial pattern with a hair marking a line on the pattern.
Pressing the button (the rivet on the neck of the gourd) allows a directional spray from the nozzle (the hole). This spray will heal 2- 24 points of damage and cure any disease, infection, or spore infestation on the skin. A full canister contains 6 charges: the dial on the bottom shows the number of charges remaining. One spray uses one charge.
Fire Extinguisher: Range: 5’ maximum effect, 10’ Rounds: 6 maximum Damage/Attack; 1-4, 1-6, or 3-42
Area of Effect: cone 10’ long, 5’ wide at end.
This device has a base cylindrical shapewithtwo handles onone side. Opposite the handles is a lever and a wide-mouthed spout adorns one end. On the otherendis a padded crook like that ofa crutch.
To operate the fire extinguisher the lever on top must be forced back towards the shoulder rest and then pushed forward; once thisis accomplished the rearmost handle may be squeezed and aconeofCO,willspew outthe nozzle. TheCO,willinflict 1-4 h.p. of damage to warm-blooded creatures, 1-6h.p. ofdamagetocold- blooded creatures, and 3-12 points of damage to plants. If the lever is not returned to the forward position the operator will hear a beeping noise and see an orange flashing light in the handle. In 2 rounds the extinguisher will explode causing 2dé6 points of damage to all within a 10’ radius.
27
Hand Pump Spray Gun:
Range: 3’
Volume: 5 gallons (40 pints)
Use per spray: 4 pint
This apparatus appears to be two seamless barrels attached together and made of a bone-like material. Two woven straps of equal length are attached to these barrels and an oity-iooking rope is fastened to the top of these barrels where they join. Upon. the end of the rope is a wandlike instrument with a handle orlever.
By squeezing the lever several times in a round a fine mist will spray from the tip of the nozzle. The backpack can hold most liquids, except strong acids, and can be refilled by screwing off the top of each barrel. This device was used to spray weed control, a plant defoliant. This defoliant may be found in 4 quart cans which when mixed with 5 gallons ofwater becomes useable causing 2-8 points damage to a large plant or destroying a2’x 2’ area of ground cover vegetation.
Ship's Rations: Each ration pack equals 1 meal for 4 person Container: Either tray, envelope or cylinder
Whatever the shape of the rations, the container is a silvery package made of some flexible material like oiled skins. At one end ofthe package is a small coloredring, and attached to one side is a strange implement that looks like a spoonwith serrated edges and a hollow handle.
The small rings, once pulled, create chemical reactions which cause the package contents tobe heated, chilled orrehydrated. Each container may be opened by locating a black tab on the end opposite the ring andtearingback the lid. The rings are color coded: red - heat, white - chill, and blue - rehydrate. The plastic spork may be used to cut food and eat it or the hollow handle may be used as a straw. Possible contents of a rations pack are: protein stews, cero-porridges, nutrient drinks, surrogate steaks, vegetable substitutes and vita-bars.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ANDROIDS AND ROBOTS
Android:
Armor Class: 3
Move: 15"
Hit Dice: 7 (35 hit points standard)
No. of Attacks: 2
Damage/Attack: 1-8/1-8
Special Attacks: See below
Special Defenses: See below
Magic Resistance: See below
Intelligence: Average
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Androids are designed to appear exactly as a human does. About half are “male”, the other half “female”. Each has a built-in frequency key to duplicate yellow and violet color cards. This will Permit androids to gain access to all areas requiring these colored cards. Androids are programmed to be able to use any human-standard weapon. They are impervious to cold; take only half damage from acid or fire; paralysis, gas, poison, and gaze weapons are useless against them; but ifhit with electrical attacks there is a 1% chance per hit point of damage they sustain that the attack will short their circuits. Immersion in water for 3 full rounds will always short circuit an android unless it is a specially built underwater model. As they are machines, spells do not have any effect unless the magic affects their components; thus, any charm or hold is useless, but a heat metal spell would do damage as noted with respect to hit points to the android.
Androids with various purposes have different strength ratings Standard strength is 15 on female models and 46 on the male versions. Guard androids have human maximums. Dexterity standard is 18. Vision is 150% human norm, with infravision to 6” Audial sensors are also 150% human norm. At 7 or fewer hit points temaining there is a 50% chance per round that the android will cease functioning,
Robot, Police: USE ILLUSTRATION #5.
Armor Class: -4
Move: 18" plus 24” emergency speed
Hit Dice: 10 (60 hit points standard)
No. of Attacks: See below
Damage/Attack: See below
Special Attacks: See below
Special Defenses: 20 point force shield (restored at 1 point/round)
Magic Resistance: See below
Intelligence: Programmed
Alignment: Programmed lawful neutral
Size: M
Police robots have built-in orange or red color card capacity, language translators, and atmosphere analysis devices. They have anti-grav units built in, and the capacity of this unitlype is the robot plus 1,000 pounds. Emergency speed is usable for 4 turn every hour.
Police robots have the following attack means:
- 2 subdual tentacles of 6’ length and 18/00 strength
- 2. arms which strike for 3-12 hit points of damage
+ @ built-in laser pistol in the cranial section which conforms to the specifications of a standard laser pistol, but which has no. limit on power use, as the unit operates off the main power source of the robot
- base storage capacity for 6 grenades (3 sleep gas, 1 poison gas, 1 explosive, 1 incendiary) which can be fired by compressed air to a maximum range of 8” by the robot
= chest paralysis pistol mechanism (power disc operated)
- tractor beam which can pull an object of up to 300 pounds weight (as a telekinesis spell)
- pressor beam which can push away an object of up to 300 pounds weight (as a telekinesis spell)
28
Only one form of attack can be employed during a round, ie. subdual tentacle attacks, arm strikes, laser use (2 shot perround, of course), grenade launching, paralysis attack, or tractor or pressor beam use.
Police robots can never be surprised. They have 200% human norm for both audial and visual sensors. They have infravisual capacity to 12”. Their force screen must be brought to 0 points before any damage accrues to the body of the robot. They can withstand vacuum or water pressure equal to 500 feet depth when their force screen is up. Cold does not harm police robots, nor does gas, paralysis, poison, etc. Fire/heat attacks cause only one-half normal damage and acid affects them only if the force shield is down. Lightning and electrical attacks have full effect, and there is a 1% chance per hit point of damage sustained that the robot will malfunction and cease operation due to fused circuitry. Most magical attacks are useless (cf. android)
At 10 or fewer hit points remaining, there is a 50% chance per round that a police robot will cease functioning.
These robots are programmed to use subdual and non-lethal attack forms initially. There is a 25% chance that any police robot encountered will have lost this programming, however, so that violent and deadly attack methods will be used, For such robots, roll d6, treating a 6 as use of either pressor or tractor beam, to find which attack method will be used. Robots of this type are 10% likely to have armed themselves with some form of human weapon (blaster pistol or rifle, laser rifle, needler), and inthiscase use d8, with 8 being attack with the weapon held in their manipulative digits.
Robot, Worker: USE ILLUSTRATION #6 (#7 for ‘tween decks) Armor Class: 2
Move: 12"
Hit Dice: 7-12 (7 hit points/die standard)
No. of Attacks: 2 or 4 (large types)
Damage/Attack: 2-12/2-12 or special
Special Attacks: tractor and pressor beams
Special Defenses: Never surprised
Magic Resistance: See below
Intelligence: Programmed
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M (7-8 HD) to L (9-12 HD)
Worker robots generally have built in violet card capacity, although 10% have yellow color card capacity also. They have atmosphere analysis equipment built in, and anti-gravity mechanisms which allow them to carry up fo 2,000 additional Pounds of weight by such means.
Smaller models are low clearance for work between decks. Large varieties are normally cargo handlers. Small robots have only 2 manipulative appendages, while the large ones have these plus 2 heavyduty cargomovingtentacleswitha strength equivalentof 24. These latter appendages will be used only to grasp and hold. Robots of this sort will only attack if actually attacked and damaged by an opponent, and they will seek fo grasp and hold first.
Worker robots are immune to vacuum, can withstand water Pressure equal to 2,500 feet, are unaffected by cold, take half damage from acid, fire, and heat attacks, and are unaffected by spells except as noted previously (cf. android). Attack by electricity causes normal damage, andthereis a 1% chance per point of damage sustained by the robot that its circuits will be fused and totally non-functioning. At 20% remaining hit points there is a 50% chance that a worker robot will cease functioning — check each round.
Worker robots have human standard audial and visual capa- bility, and they have infravisual capacity to 9”
These machines have heavy duty tractor and pressorbeams built in — capacity is 2,000 pounds foreach. There is a 10% chance per round that a robot will switch on one or the other if it is being attacked.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
VEGEPYGMY
Frequency: Very Rare
No. Appearing: 30-300
Armor Class: 4
Move: 12”
Hit Dice: 1-6
%in Lair: 40%
Treasure Type: O, P
No. of Attacks: 4
Damage/Attack: 1-6 or by weapon type
Special Aftacks: see below
Special Defenses: see below
Magic Resistance: see below
Intelligence: Low
Alignment: Neutral
Size: S
Psionic Ability: nil
Attack/Defense Modes: nil
Level/X.P. Value: 4 HD — IlI/53+1/hp. 2 HD — II1/84+2/hp 3 HD — Ill/120+3/hp 4 HD — IV/175+4/hp 5 HD — IV/245+5/hp 6 HD — V/425+6/hp
This refers to the level of the monster and its experience point
worth.
Vegepygmies are vegetable creatures of low intelligence. They ‘organize themselves into regional bands, living by scavenging ‘ond hunting. Meat forms their diet and they will eat it no matter what its condition
Vegepygmies come in a variety of colors and sizes. Usually their colors will be similar to their normal surroundings. Thus, some will be splotched with green while others might be mottled grey- brown. When encountered in areas that match their coloration, they will blend into the background, surprising 50% of the time. Theyhavefrom 1 to4 hit dice, although leaders will be greater. The composition of a force will be as follows:
‘A hitdice 50% 2Zhitdice 25% 3 hit dice 15% 4 hit dice 10%
Those with 4 hit die will be 2’ tall, with an additional #4’ added for evely hit die over one.
For every 50 vegepygmies there will be one sub-chief of 5 hit dice and 2-5 three hit dice bodyguards. Every band will have a 6 hit dice leader. He will have 2-8 bodyguards of four hit dice.
Attacks from piercing weapons such as arrows and spears do onty 1 point of damage to vegepygmies. Electrical attacks dono damage. Fire and cold do normal damage. Vegepygmies are immune to all charm/enchantment spells except those that affect plants.
The lairs of vegepygmies are usually found in warm areas underground, although some may be found in dark forests, They form bands near their main food supply and are usually well- organized in the defense of this food supply. They co-exist well with other forms of plant life. There is a 40% chance that there will be 1-3 shtiekers guarding their lair. Vegepygmies ofthe same tribe have the ability to pass by these creatures unnoticed. There is a 70% chance that russet mold will be found in the vicinity ofthe lair.
Vegepygmies are short bipedal creatures with sharp thorn-like claws. Their shoulders, abdomens, and limbs are fringed with leaf- like tendrils, Their heads have a topknot of small leaves. They eat carrion and meat. Vegepygmies reproduce by russet mold or by propagating buds from their bodies. Although they do nothavea spoken language, they are capable of vocalized cries. Their Major form of communication is a code of chest slappings and thumping.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e«
29
RUSSET MOLD Frequency: Very Rare No. Appearing: 4 patch Armor Class: 9
% in Lair: nil
Treasure Type: nil
No. of Attacks: 0 Damage/Attack: 0
Special Attacks: Radiation Special Defenses: See Below Magic Resistance: See Below Intelligence: Non-
Alignment: Neutral
Size: StoL
Psionic Ability: nil Attack/Defense Modes: nil Level/X.P. Value: not rateable
Found only in damp areas underground, this mold is often mistaken for rust at distances greater than 30’ (70% chance). Itis immune to all attacks involving weapons, fire, and cold but is vulnerable to applications of alcohol, acid, and compounds harmful to plants (such as salt). It can be killed instantly by casting a cure disease or a continual light upon it.
Russet mold makes no physical attacks but emits a barely visible cloud of irradiated spores for a 3’ radius, beyond which the spores settle to the floor, inert. Also, if the mold is contacted it will inject irradiated spores. All creatures passing within 3’ or contacting it must save vs. poison. Failure to save results in a sickness that will kill in 2-5 turns unless a cure disease is cast. Those making a successful save will still suffer 5-20 points of damage from the radiation.
Any character who dies from contactingrussetmold will undergo a transformation. First, their body will immediately start to sprout new growths of mold from the spores left at contact. Then, when entirely encased in mold, a vegepygmy (cf.) will rise from the remains. The entire process will take from 21 fo 24 hours (d4+20).A hold plant spell will halt the growth ofthe mold for atime equalto the duration of the spell. A character may not be raised any time after the mold has grown for more than one hour.
Russet mold is golden-brown to rust-red in color. It has a lumpy texture similar to cold porridge and is covered by short, hair-like growths. These stand upright and constantlywaveras ifin a gentle breeze.
Credits Design: Gary Gygax Layout: Harold Johnson and Jeff R. Leason Able Assistance: Lawrence Schick
Editing and Production: David Cook, Allen Hammack, Harold Johnson, Frank Mentzer, and Jeff R. Leason
Art: Jeff Dee, Gregory K. Fleming, David S. LaForce,
Erol Otus, Jim Rosiof,and David C. Sutherland Ill
Inspiration: JimWardandRob Kuntz
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SPECIAL MODULE CHARACTERS
The following listing of characters may be used to form a partyfor tournament orregular play. Alternatively, players may wish to use their own characters, THE EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS was designed for a large party of characters of moderate to high level. Suggested party size is 10 to 15 characters withmosthaving levels between Sth and 40th. Smaller parties may adventure in this scenario but party levels should be increased accordingly, though never exceeding an average level of 12th. Multi-class characters should be considered as one level higher than their highestlevel. All characters should have at least 2-3 useful magic items.
If there are too few player-characters to form a suitable party, the DM may opt to include some of the characters listed below as non-player characters or each player may handle multiple characters. It is suggested that players be allowed no more than 2 characters each. They may find it difficultto manage more than this number and may not be able to identify with such “instant”
SPECIAL ITEMS POSSESSED BY EACH CHARACTER
items +3 battleaxe, +2 plate mail, +2 shield, ting of fire resistance Sword, Flametongue; +1 plate mail, +4 shield +4 spear, +4 plate mail, scroll of protection vs magic +1 shield, javelin of lightning Sword of dancing +2 war hammer, +4 plate mail +2 dagger, gem of seeing, boots of levitation, wand of cold (28 charges) potion of clairvoyance, scroll with read magic, light, comprehend languages; ring of invisibility
Character # 4.
an
2 Noo
characters. 9. +4 sword, scroll with sleep, light, fear, + Novice players may find it necessary to have characters no lower Ge tee dhol oh atin tik of pectecion a than 7th level with an average level of 9th in the party. Novice vs Tope of entangling, potion of extra-healing players should also be allowed another magic item per 12. robe of blending character such as a scroll of 2-4 spells, a potion (no oil of 13. +2 sword, bag of holding, cloak of protection +3 etherealness), or a minor ring of protection. Fighter characters 44. 42 dagger, +4 dagger (x2), rope of climbing should be allowed a +1 or +2 weapon (with no special powers) if 45. Tl sweet ol os sligiperineas they do not already have one. If the DM does not think his players : are capable of handling multiple characters, NPCs should be used to round out the party. CHARACTER ROSTER # Race Alignment Class HP _Level s 1 w N Fir 54 12 15 14 12 ce Fir 42 7 16 13 14 N Fir a4 6 17 12 13 CE Fir 38 5 18(69) "1 10 ite} Fir 24 4 15 12 1 N Fir 48 8 18(17) 13 9 N MU 27 "1 10 16 14 8 H N ‘MU 22 5 "1 15 13 9 E ce Fir/MU 24 58 15 16 14 40 H [cj a1 34 10 12 "1 18 4 H 1S C1 33 6 14 40 15 42 q N Or 30 7 12 43 15 413 H N Th 27 10 10 14 13 44 h CE Th 23 9 12 15 8 45 H CE Th 22 5 13 10 10 30
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
JajOM
AoWalesgo JajDMepUy) sytl
e6pug sdwoy
tos16pw awos Aq ssejun ‘ajqossed90U! Ss! [eA] SUL,
| “(248 ‘YSIM ‘J]OM Ssod ‘a'1) suDdW
OOP AWAYOD PUD ‘SHSIUID “12jD9UL “1A [2A27 aonueL @SDOIIDIS [Oud ASDIIDg QWaydsouyy ‘A [eAa|-Qns ‘ 7 $}98P UBIMI, UBPIDB JO ‘9 JOOP SdINS ‘A [PAA] eueBoueWw pun ‘A1axP0) ‘suapsDB jOO!UDjOg : DaID aBuno| pud ADMy|DM Jaddn spodmal, sainyo doig 8}}98P UBEM), 10 ‘Gg DEP So|AIES SIOUOND ,SUD[D|UYOA} PUD ‘,S4BDYJO ‘SIOIDYO “‘Y OF = auonbs yoo9 oo I wa 1 x | 1 ds oe a ofedo ho | | D hls) } T aTwarans on IT | y | ig | a a awa oo oe —— + dl _— q iz a ' a ra i i | ae | naan it LI { a taleseel | | ee ae | if J { | =| =
dIHS 4O NOILD3S SSOUD
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The Advanced Dungeons & Dragons™ Game Family
PLAYERS HANDBOOK. This hardbound volume contains everything the player needs to know in AD&D. Within it are complete information on characters, levels, equipment, spells, and more.
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. The hardbound book of essential reference information for the Dungeon Master. Including combat and saving throw tables, magic items, wandering monsters, how to DM a game and campaign, etc.
MONSTER MANUAL. A hardbound compendium of the creatures inhabiting the AD&D fantasy world. Over 350 descriptions of monsters, from Aerial Servant to Zombie, profusely illustrated.
THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK. This work provides a complete campaign milieu in which to base adventures and characters, place dungeons, etc. Two large full-color maps, a folder, and a 32-page booklet full of ready-made historical and geographical information. Suitable for use with Advanced D&D.
DUNGEON MASTERS SCREEN. Actually two laminated reference screens, one fornormal combat, saving throws, and other oft-needed information, and another for psionic combat. With full color illustrations.
PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS
PERMANENT CHARACTER FOLDER AND ADVENTURE RECORD SHEETS
NON-PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS These three products are designed for various types of character record keeping, and are made for the convenience of player and Dungeon Master alike. All are three-hole drilled for easy notebook storage.
THE ROGUES GALLERY. An aid for the harried Dungeon Master, this booklet contains hundreds of ready-made non-player characters, as well as caravans, bandit groups, dungeon parties, and more.
MODULES Every AD&D module is a ready-to-play adventure setting, populated with appropriate monsters, treasures, tricks, and traps, and including maps, background information, and histories. Though each individual module is designed to stand on its own, several series are specially made to form a connected progression of adventures.
G1: STEADING OF THE HILL GIANT CHIEF
G2: GLACIAL RIFT OF THE FROST GIANT JARL G3: HALL OF THE FIRE GIANT KING
D1: DESCENT INTO THE DEPTHS OF THE EARTH D2: SHRINE OF THE KUO-TOA
D3: VAULT OF THE DROW
$41: TOMB OF HORRORS
$2: WHITE PLUME MOUNTAIN
14: VILLAGE OF HOMMLET C1: HIDDEN SHRINE OF TAMOACHAN
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIIATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL |
CN) God a
Kir)
es y cr)
DOUBLE DOOR
OPEN DGORWAY
BROWN CARD DOOR
GREY CARD DOOR
RED CARD DOOR
DROP TUBE
VIOLET CARD DOOR ON/OFF LIT AREA
ORANGE CARD DOOR
YELLOW CARD DOOR DIMLY LIT AREA
JET BLACK CARD DOOR =
UNLIT AREA
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL Il
= fe] me
BROWN CARD DOOR SPHINCTER
SAG, MACHINERY es HOLE IN DECK
SCALE: 1 SQUARE EQUALS 10 FEET
[J fe}
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL aa Clanicd ALTE ! HOMLD, H | fi 4 1 f t u TOUNGIE ia 5 | | I F | (oN + He TI | ia ClARIGO} I [ ia a Holo Oumd _| Ba) 5) im a! y T Cry Coot Ht 1 T T Gianled | PT |aoio! i Bi! Le 8 3) ia ~ zm nmi T T ul | tj zi ae To) i a Fac} FLOjOR Cor C if Cr 1s. ami 1 t | TTealeal | I UNE Hg “COT T T Crt | AG | 5 I I it it t : C0 Nilgut 1 1 + cla f il i] 1 hid I ClaRico) { Hojo 4 + a im ICOCKITA I! ‘ouN i 7 Chale FANG IN Ta |uao) Wall AR HOLD) opoR HOLE IN CEILING DOUBLE DOOR
DROP TUBE [] ON/OFF LIT AREA
OPEN DOORWAY LIFT
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
BROWN CARD DOOR FOLIAGE DIMLY LIT AREA
VIOLET CARD DOOR VINES
UNLIT AREA
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES RE{NCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL IV TET D| AIST RAI #4 T [veiw + W LojuNice | Zz s Ua) : 5 25 sta) 7 ue ae T 5 : > : far to : . x sri 5 é) th zi Re ee ae 0 ss a a E ia : ate 0 3 x tre eee Hp . Hy ro aad iam: 8 H CURT] Ry i on i : D0 E ¢ xf . n z % af AML? say a? . . a 2 He ge < b 2 2 ia c ey Th a 5 J Wet i BE ae AE Z i. 1 FEED) Siro}
LiFT
FENCE %| BURROW SWAMP (el ON/OFF LIT AREA
FOLIAGE he STREAM HH WATER i PATH oy UNLIT AREA
FOLIAGE
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL V
MOLD
@ ®| PILLARS
H+} WATER es) SPHINCTER
sp a ee A EPR
THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL VI
[Moto] 9]
[oxwomat
DOUBLE DOOR
OPEN DOORWAY
BROWN CARD DOOR
ILI)
[v] WioLeT CARD DOOR [6 ] ney caro ooon [EE] wane []
CURTAIN
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LIFT WATER LOCKER
STORAGE
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
by Gary Gygax AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 8-12
This illustration booklet is specially designed for use with the module. It contains over 60 illustrations (four of which are full- page color illustrations) pertaining to various features of the ship, and should be used by the Dungeon Master to show ap- propriate views to the players as they adventure. Each illustration within this booklet carries a number which corresponds to the rooms and locations on the master map (note that all locations are shown and some appear more than once). The des- criptive copy within the other booklet indicates when appropriate illustrations should be shown.
This booklet, it will be noted, has an additional cross-fold. This allows the Dungeon Master to fold the booklet horizontally as well as vertically along the binding, and in this manner reveal to the viewing players only a single illustration of the appropri- ate size. The DM can place his finger or thumb over the number appearing on each picture to avoid giving any clues as to room number or location to the viewing players.
Distributed to the book trade In the United States by Random House, Inc. and In Caneda by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. © 1980 TSR Games
k  / TSR Games < POB 756 LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
PRINTED IN US.A. ISBN 0-935696-14-8 9033
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
know ores
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS Ko)
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES
RIATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BAR
hy, eens ———— ee
12
és) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Y,
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
(2) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
WMAAPA AANA NMA 4e° AVA 484 RMA Lee WALA > NAA: C9 4
AN AVE NIM 40 4 VAR AYAAL: offAe ARZPV LAAV 2B
: 4 BALAI TRE
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
WD
Y ny
!
am
x ; x ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x ” x
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
79
\ Eee eT ) 80 X ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS f/f» ——— See EEE se
2 i t ai & , x my Zz) 1% |< ay a iE pe Y o | B =a | 8 | FE] Q a = | “io a | . la Ja pe <| } a tc] 0} Pe] a Lo mY 13 ea i> | )e | ici a |> a <i] |] < in| yo} Iz | ®
ey ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ef) piu
tp
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARDATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS (0)
ees
a% Do
Ce
Ss,
\S
ZZ
a ildidcn
« LO}
>; ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
pun nce mesa
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS (oy
(0) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIIATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS xX
2 i < a oT =| z = 4 co) a x) a ® e} 5 2 EI Q a = x | ae | al al t= <] 2 | < S| ‘a x | 3 | 5 EI [=| a 5 a < al < qa) rc) 2 8
| WI” WXSSSKWWWIW / PY, Yy
APP
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS 8)
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
co ° = a ° =
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATION BOOKLET INCLUDED
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Dungeon Module S3
Expedition to the Barrier Peaks by Gary Gygax AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 8-12
This module was the official ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Tournament scenario at Origins II. The author wishes to express his thanks to Mr. Robert Kuntz who contributed substantial ideas for the various encounters herein. This version has
been carefully revised and updated to conform to ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS™ game systems. included herein are background information for players, statistics for a party substantially the same as that used for the tournament, DM notes, six level maps with encounter matrices, and numerous full color illustrations of scenes from the adventure in order to enhance the enjoyment of participants, There are also many new and special monsters designed for this scenario, and
they appear nowhere else. This module is located upon the Map of the World of Greyhawk (WORLD OF GREYHAWK™ fantasy world setting from TSR).
if you enjoy this module, be sure and{try any of the many other unique offerings in this line from TSR!
Distriouted to the book trade in the United States by Random House. inc. and in Canada by Ranciom House of Canada, Ltd Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. © 1980, 1984, TSR Hobbies, inc. Alll Rights Reserved.
TSR Hobbies, Inc. POB 756 LAKE GENEVA, Wi 53147
jameWizards
© 19BOTSA Hobbies Ine. ‘Rights Reserved ISBN 0-935696-14-8 PRINTED IN USA.
This module bookie! Is protected under the copyright lows of the United States of America, Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of ihe materia or artwork contained herein is prohibited without writfen consent ot TSR Hobbies, Inc.
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Advanced D&D and AD&D are trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 9033
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons™ Special DungeonModule *S3 EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
PREFACE
This module was begun early in 1976 when TSR was contem- plating publication of a science fantasy role playing game. Jim Ward had already shown us some rough notes on META- MORPHOSIS ALPHA; | thought if would be a splendid idea to introduce Jim's game at Origins II, and introduce the conceptto D&D players by means of the tournament scenario. | laid out the tournament from old “Greyhawk Castle” campaign material involving a spaceship, and Rob Kuntz helped me to populate the ruined vessel. Both this scenario and METAMORPHOSIS ALPHA Proved successful, but while the latter has been continually available since mid-1976, only a few copies of the tournament dungeon used for Origins Il have beenaround. METAMORPHOSIS. ALPHA is currently being rewritten and expanded fora majornew edition, and GAMMAWORLDis highly populartoo. As this module offers a unique and challenging blend of fantasy and science fantasy role playing, it seemed logical to reintroduce it to the Public. What could be more logical than to make available a scenario which blends the two role playing approaches into a single form? Now, as revised to fit ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, THE EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS will serve as both an exciting insertion into yourcampaign and as a primer on how to combine "science" into your fantasy role playing. | hope that you will enjoy reading and playing it as much as | enjoyed writing it!
‘WORLD OF GREYHAWK MAP LOCATION: The mountains north- west of the city of Hornwood in the Grand Duchy of Geoff.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The Grand Duchy of Geoff has recently been plagued by a rash of unusually weird and terrible monsters of unknown sort. This western area, particularly the mountain fastness which separates the Grand Duchy from the Dry Steppes, has long been renowned for the generation of the most fearsome beasts, and it has been shunned accordingly — save for a handful of hardy souls with exceptional abilities and sufficient wealth to build stout strongholdsto ward offthe attacks ofthe predatory creatures infesting the rugged lands thereabout. Within the last few months, however, a walled town not far distant from the area, and four small fortresses as well, were destroyed by mysterious attacks! The remaining barons and lords have presetved in brine several partially decomposed corpses found ‘on ornear the sites of the ravaging. While these strange bodies are assumed to have belonged to the forces which were responsible for the destruction, the remains were too far gone to learn anything other than they were of creatures heretofore unknown to even the wisest sages of Geoff. The urgent pleafor aid which accompanied these gruesome corpses could not be ignored, and the Grand Duke acted immediately. Choosing several of his doughtiest henchmen to lead the expedition, he called upon the other powers of the state to likewise furnish their minions for the expedition as well. Thus, the Society of the Magivestre, the Fellowship of the Blinding Light, the Magsmen’s Brotherhood, and the High Lord of Elvendom (at Hocholve) also selected the bravest of adventurers and equipped them accordingly to accompany the expedition as their representa- tives. A total of 15 have assembled beneath the pennonedturrets of the Grand Duke's mighty castle near Gorna.
There it was learned that several unconfirmed reports have related that monsters have beendisgorgedtrom a gatedcaveat random intervals. The entrance to this place is high upon a rocky face, and sheathed in armor. This protection has purportedly frustrated all attempts to explore the space beyond the metal valve — although several search parties have entirely dis- appeared, so it is possible they entered but never returned. Your
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED eo
expedition must find out exactly what this cave is, what is causing the monsters to come forth, who is responsible, and how to Prevent future incursions. In addition, any other information regarding this mysterious locale, its strange denizens, magical devices, or unusual weaponry is highly desirable. His High Radiance, Owen II, has assured allofthe concemed parties that whatever information is gained will be given to all, and wealth found will be shared according to the contribution each individual or representative group makes to the overall success of the expedition. Ifnecessaty, the Grand Duke has vowed to send forth an army to lay waste to the offending place and extinguish every living thing therein. Should your expedition not meet with total success, this step will be considered, but His High Radiance Personally doubts such extreme measures will be required considering the strength of the expedition and the ability of its members. The Grand Duke feels assured that you will certainly locate the person or thing responsible for the troubles plaguing Geoff and eliminate him, her, or it from the face of the land.
Your party set forth from Gorna a sennight ago, and for the past two days have been climbing higher into the crags of the Barrier Peaks. Last night was spent in the keep of the only Baron remaining in the area — and he was fulsome glad for your company. This morning, as the eastern horizon turned from pearl gray to rosy pink, a score of the Baron's retainers guided the expedition towards the unknown area. It is now afternoon, and you have set up camp in a hidden dell but a few bowshots from the strange entrance. The men-at-arms have been detailed to guard the supplies and mounts at the camp while you go onward immediately. They will await your retum for four full days before returning to the keep. Gathering your personal gear, you are now climbing the steep slope of thedell's north side, passing the rim, and forcingy ourway through a dense growthoftrees and undergrowth. There, across a field and beyond arocky rise, awaits adventure. . . .
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER ONLY
After your players have had a chance to digest the background information, have them order the partyin the manner they desire — typical open field order, 20’ corridor order, and 10’ corridor order. Ifthey are totake the personae of thecharacters originally used, pass out sheets so they may record the data. Each Participant can play the role of one, two, or even three of the characters. Do not be surprised if one or more of the better Players are suspicious of what they are about to get into, for the discerning will have noted the hints given in the introduction.
Be certain thatyou are quite familiar with the entire module, and read each encounter section carefully. Be sure fo display the illustrations at the appropriate time, and allow players to view them as long as they like — just keep track of the minutes and tack off rounds accordingly. Ship lighting generally remains completely functional. Some corridors are not lit, and these are screened, as are any other areas where the light has failed. Certain areas are lightly screened; these are sections where the lighting is very dim. White areas have full lighting, but rooms are lit only when a panel beside the door is touched. Thus:
screened areas = no light
lightly screened areas = dim light, 60’ vision range
unscreened areas = bright light
EXCEPTION: all tween decks areas are unlit; level lV has
alternating light and dark periods.
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Scale is 10’ per square and shown on the level maps. Ceiling height variations are likewise shown thereon. Doors and hatchways need special attention, for they require color cards to function, so standard door symbols can not be employed, and care must be taken to correctiy recall which letter code tepresents which order of card. The letter symbols for doors (or color of card to activate a deck hatchway) are:
gray card
red card yellow card orange card violet card brown card
J = jet black card
Whenever the party approaches a standard door, display ILLUSTRATION #4. There are some doors which will open merely by pressing upon the panel beside them, and such portals are indicated by the standard door symbol. Open doors are shown as: ~{_}-. Drop chutes are described in the matrix to level! The UP side is always towards the ship's hull, the DOWN is always towards the interior; this is coded “U" and “D”" respectively. Drop chutes with full anti-gravity are coded with the letter “A” in the center, and these tubes are brightly lit. Those in which the anti- gravity is NOT functioning, but in which the grasp handles still move are coded with theletter"G” in the center (to indicate that gravity is in effect); these tubes are only dimly lit. Non-functioning drop chutes are coded with the letter “N”, they have no anti- gravity nor do their handles move, and they are completely dark. Drop chutes are illustrated on the map thus:
27<0<20
o u ~ ~ (N) (A) uAD oGu u D L ~
south north west east ILLUSTRATION #2 illustrates a typical tube. Note that the illustration shows a sealed sphincter above, indicating that the level above is sealed off. (In this case, ofcourse, the level aboveis gone, when this module of the ship was blasted free in the cataclysm which destroyed the vessel.) Similar closing devices will be noted by users of a drop tube, but the mechanisms will be open. Important note: Small, broad doors will be noticeable in the drop tube between levels | and Ill and IV and VI. These are access doors to the ‘tween decks areas. They are keyed to BROWN cards.
All radiation areas are matrixed with the numerals 43 regardless of level, except on level IV where no hazard exists. Each matrix includes a key describing the effects ofexposureto this radiation.
Cross hatched areas 'lween decks are areas of possible danger from generators and other equipment. These dangers are described in the appropriate places.
The jagged area oflevelll (‘tween decks area) is ahole blastedin the deck, andthere is a corresponding areamarkedon the map for level Ill which indicates where this opening occurs in the overhead. See the appropriate matrix for details.
Be certain to employ the illustrations as indicated — or whenever Players are in an area with a graphic depiction and request tobe shown the illustration again.
Emphasize the strange fiora and fauna on |levellV and then show them the appropriate illustrations! It is also important to notethat the lighting on this level is an exception to the standard. The entire level will light up for 14 hours and then go dark for 7, ie. the lights go out suddenly and retum 42tums|ater. Keep track of entry time. and turns within the ship!
COLORED CARDS
Each of these cards are rectangular bits of nearly indestructible Plastic about three inches long by two inches wide. Since characters should not be aware of the actual nature of the different technological items found onthe ship, descriptions have been provided for most of the unusual items that they might find.
Colored cards will appear as heavily leaded panes of colored glass. No clues to their function should be given, as the characters must figure out theirproperuse. While some colors are specific, most will serve to open doorsto areas which are keyedto lesser rank color. The colors are given below, with descending order of rank and general description of the rank/occupation- Profession of holder each was designed for. Note that robots and androids will note color by means oftheirvisual sensors, provided the card is held forth in a mannerwhich enables the scanning of its surface.
GRAY ship commander and top officials RED police/security officials
YELLOW" medical officers
ORANGE security personnel
VIOLET technicians
BROWN crew and maintenance workers JET BLACK = passengers/colonists
“Yellow cards will not trigger orange entry locks.
To trigger an entry, the card is slipped into the proper slot and when the door/access opens, thecardis dropped intothereturn. An improper card triggers an alarm, alow buzzing sound, and the card is held by the lock.
THE SPACESHIP
Sometime else, a large exploration-colonization expedition of human origin was overtaken in the course of its journey by a deadly plague. Ina vain effort to halt the spread of the virus, the modular sections of the vessel were sealed and then separated, each left to its own fate. The section concerned here was drawn through a black hole and spewed into the universe where the World of Greyhawk exists. Chance brought it to that very planet, and its computers and robotics brought it to an intact landing.
This process, however, caused an earth tremor, and a landslide buried the ship section for several decades. Then a computer matfunction sent worker robots to a cargo hatch to discharge material, and when these robots found the hatch blocked by fallen earth and stone, they promptly cleared it and unloaded the requisite cargo — unfortunately for the inhabitants of the area, for the holds contained various alien fauna and flora, and the offloading freed these creatures from stasis. Some died immediately, some lived for a time, and a few species prospered and propagated.
Recently, another earthquake uncovered an upper airlock, and the tremor caused the same computer malfunction, so the worker robots again cleared the lower cargo lock and period- ically discharged more of the unwanted “goods”
START: The expedition has just topped the rise and gained their first view of the metal doored "cave". At this point SHOW PLAYERS ILLUSTRATION #3 which depicts the hillside where erosion has exposed two doors — a small upper door (through which the party must enter), and a large lower cargo hatch (which will open only when the parly is inside and ceitain conditions prevail). WHENEVER THE PARTY APPROACHES FOR THE FIRST TIME THE SMALL DOOR WILL BE OPEN. It will remain open for six full turns (1 hour); it will then close for 20 hours and reopen for another six turns. As the men-at-arms will wait exactly four days, the party had better be on its toes and not too timid.
Entty is from the south side of the vessel. When the party enters they will see a metal room, about 18’ deep and 20’ wide, witha curving south (rear) wall. At that moment, the outer door will silently shut, and the 20’ wide inner door will part to reveal the 60’ by 60’ entry area with drop tube (non-functioning) to the lower levels. The “V" doors inside and flanking the airlock (and the one to the farnorth as well) are access to the space suit storage racks — as well as emergency means of entry/egress to the air lock. Naturally, the party will not be able to utilize these portals without a violet or higher level color card.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY TO LEVEL I: OFFICIALS, OFFICERS, AND TECHNICIANS QUARTERS
‘WANDERING MONSTERS: Encounter occurs 4 in 12, check each turn.
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE:
4. 9-46 “vegepygmies” with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4) 2. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
3. 2-3 displacer beasts
4. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6)
5. lurker above
6. 9-16 “vegepygmies” with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4)
Vegepygmies, Police and worker robots are detailed below.
NORTHERN HEMISPHERE:
4. worker robot
2. 14-24 “vegepygmies” (ILLUSTRATION #7) 3. 2-5 shadows
4, police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
5. 14-24 “vegepygmies” (ILLUSTRATION #7) 6. 1-2 will-o'-wisps
NOTE: Whenever the party is before a door use ILLUSTRATION #14. The metal around the upper slot will be color keyed, ifapplicable.
DROP TUBES: As previously noted, these four devices are in different states of functioning. Each tube is a cylinder with an opening on both sides. Inside are two tracks opposite each other, running down the vertical length of the shaft. Each track has a series of handles spaced eight feet apart. One of these tracks will be moving up and the other willbe moving down in all tubes that are operational. Use ILLUSTRATION #2 to aid in describing the drop tubes. In those which anti-grav still functions, the individual need only step in, float weightlessly, and grasp a Passing handle to be borne in whichever direction is desired. At the top and bottom of the tube the handles fold into the wall to complete a circuit. in the non-operational tube, of course, the handles do notmoveatall, but they will support up to 400 pounds of weight. The tube which still functions mechanically, but which has no anti-gravity, can be used if the characters firmly grasp a handte priorto stepping into the chute; if any character attempts to step into the tube and then grasp a handle, allow a base 10% chance of success, +5% for each point of dexterity above 6. Failure equals a fall which will almost certainly provefatalfrom the upper level, allowing 106 for each 10’ of vertical distance fallen.
UNNUMBERED ROOMS: These rooms are typically apartments, activity rooms (those with doors which require no color card), and utility/maintenance/storerooms. Unless noted by a number code each such area is thoroughly looted, has some jumbled furniture or rotting goods therein, and from 0-3 (d4, 4=0) inanimate skeletons ofgenerally human appearance. Everything is worthless or in bad condition, the furnishings plastic or metal, ‘and only bits of rag or odd pieces of junk can be found.
DINING ROOMS: The two large onestothe west have mess tables and were cafeteria-like places, The three smaller ones to the east were for the higher-ups, and they contained tables and chairs. All five of these areas are now in ruins. The furnishings are jumbled, and there are quite a number of skeletons and bones strewn about. They have nothing of value within them.
KITCHENS: Everything which was possibly useful and not bolted down has beenremovedfromthese areas. However, there are still computer operated food dispensers as indicated in each kitchen. Each kitchen will have some bare counter space anda number of unused trays about. Along one wall is a benchwitha number of metal boxes resting onit. Each box has a dark colored glass door in the front of it and arranged beside these are a number ofsquare metal plates (selector buttons). Ontop ofeach boxis a short, black cylinder (temperature control knob). Inside each box area number of shelves spacedclose together. Along
other walls are a fine metal mesh (microphone/speaker grille) with a rivet (call button) belowit. Next to these is a long, narrow door that opens to a small shelf-like compartment. Near the entrance is a dark glass plate with fourrivets below it. (Thiswasthe daily menu screen. The rivets were control buttons for it. The menu screen no longerworks.) Iffood is dispensed, it will be servedina compartmented tray of a horn-like material (plastic). There is a 20% chance that each machine that is tried will serve. There are eight per kitchen, and not less than two will function, but one of the functioning machines has a 50% chance of dispensing Poisonous food. If pygmies are encountered in a kitchen area they will gain +2 on “to hit” andon damage due to theirferocious reaction at seeing their food supply threatened. At least one will immediately return to their home area and gatherthe whole tribe to do battle.
‘GAME ROOMS: These rooms originally housed various amuse- ment devices of mechanical and electronic nature. The mechanical ones have been broken and looted, but the electronic ones are still functional. Ifthe party members have any of the coinage used on the ship they can get rid of it here “shooting” at spaceships, monsters, etc. You may optionally include any sort of gambling devices you wish here — slot machines, black jack, etc. How you run such games is strictly up toyou. Describe machines as brightly colored boxes with various slots, buttons, wheels, weapons, etc. as component parts. There ‘are also several standard shooting gallery games here. These include guns with handles bolted to tables, others with cables coming out of them, and other various things like this. Players should be told that they are mysterious metal shaped objects unless they have found such weapons or have encountered creatures using them. In this case, they should be told they see more objects similar to those they have already seen. If any character spends a turn or more practicing with these shooting galleries, trying to learn how to handle them (this should be specifically stated), they may be allowed a -1 on their die rolls on the charts when attempting tolearnhowto use a similarweapon.
LOUNGES: These areas were once very posh and comfortable, but they are now messy. There are torn easy chairs, small tables broken and overturned, broken drink and snack dispensers, rubble and ashes from fires, bones and skulls, and some few personal items in the deep folds oflounge furniture lost during the last few hectic days before the plague took everyone. Rolla dé for each lounge area searched. Check once only. The treasure found will be:
4 — notes on escaped intellect devourer (level II)”
2 — 1-3 ampules of serum which will cure any disease if injected"*
3 — 1 piece of jewelry worth 300 - 1,800 g.p.
4 — 3 pieces of jewelry worth 1,000 - 4,000 g.p. each
5 — jet black card
6 — violet or orange card (50%/50%)
“must use comprehend languages to understand; it will detail where the creature has been confined; after the first 1 is rolleda brown card will be found thereafter
**70% potent, 20% neutral, 10% poison
MEETING ROOMS: These areas contain various long, fixedtables, chairs, broken communications panels (bent metal and broken wiring), and many skeletons. There is nothing of value, and ‘anything loose has been taken away.
RECREATION AREA: This room was for various group participation games and similar activities. The equipment and furniture is now destroyed or taken. There are many piles of litter and skeletons in the place. The party can spend many tums searching here and find absolutely nothing useful.
MEDICAL AREAS: The main records office and examination clinic is in the central complex square. A robotic recording instructs anyone entering to come back tomorrow, as all personnel are ‘absent; emergency cases can report to MED 1 or MED 2 for
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
attention. All of this will be in a totallyincomprehensible language unless a translation device or spell is used. There are three undisturbed desks here, and a careful search has a 10% chance Per round of tuming up a yellow card, but as soon as a deskis touched an alarm will sound, and a police robot willappearin 1- 4 rounds thereafter. This will only happen once. Other equipment in the place is eithernon-functioning or of small value — chairs, 2 wheeled cots, examination tables, etc.
MED 4: USE ILLUSTRATION #8. This is an emergency treatment toom with a female android nurse. She will auto- matically treat any wounded human who enters, using a healing spray which will repair 2-24 hit points of damage. The device has five charges left. If asked, the android nurse will give an injection which will cure disease, neutralize poison, or counter radiation poison- ing — any of which will be effective within 3 tums of affliction. Note that requests must be in a language understandable to the android, mainly the language of the ship. If attacked the android will not fight back nor summon any aid.
MED 2: USE ILLUSTRATION #9. This is the emergency operating room, and a malfunctioning male android surgeon is on hand to “greet” anyone entering. The android has an 18/01 strength, and it will attempt to grapple, anesthetize, and operate upon whomever is grabbed first. If it overpowers any creature, it will anesthetize him or her and begin operating in a single round. The second round will kill the victim. As with all androids itis: AC 3, move 15”, 35 hit points, #AT 2, D 1-8 (with no weapon). It attacks as a 7 hit dice monster. Acid and fire do half damage, lightning (and similar electrical attacks) not saved against will short the android out. At 7 oF less hit points there is a 50% chance/round that it will cease functioning
LABORATORIES: These rooms were the special research facilities for biological, biochemical, and chemical projects related to dlien life forms, and eventually were used to stop the plague aboard. Those labs without color card keyed doors are general Purpose work areas, and they contain nothing ofvalue orinterest except some empty plastiglass retorts, beakers, petri dishes, vials, etc. There are a few smallish cages for animals (which now contain nothing but bones), work counters, and the like.
LAB a: This room contains a lab technician worker robot still at work, vainly attempting to find a serum to cure the Plague which wiped out the ship's human populationa century or so ago. (The virus which was the cause ofit all died out itself when the last of the human hosts died.) If the party displays ayellowcard (or one ofhigher order) they can help themselves to anything in the place. On g counter top are 2 ampules of poison antidote, 3 of disease cure, and a cannister of healing spray (2d12hit Points of damage healed per charge, 3 charges left), see the end of this module. If no proper color card is shown, the party interferes with the robot's work, or they attack the robot or are destructive, the worker will broadcast a high frequency top-security-priority alarm which will bring 1-3 police robots in 1-4 melee rounds.
LAB b: This room was a special hydroponic culture lab. All of the old cultures are dead, but spores of russet mold (see end section) still linger in the place. If any use of a computer console has been made prior to entering lab b the computer malfunction factor will have caused it to pump nutrient solution into the tanks to feed the supposed culture. Thus, the room will be packed full of tusset mold. In this case, when any door to the place is opened, an avalanche of the stuff will pouroverthe 10’ square (100 square feet) area outside; everyone covered by the stuff or within 3’ of it, must save versus Poison or become irradiated and be a mold culture
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
medium. The victims will die in 2-5 turns, but within 21-24 hours a vegepygmy creature will arise from the mess (it will not recall any other existence, andit willbe hostile to anything other than its own kind). Those saving versus Poison will take 5d4 hit points of damage from the stuff.
LAB c: Anumberofchemicals are stored here. Most chemicals ‘are nolonger active or have no use tothoseignorantof chemistry. There are 20 of each sort of container mentioned to experiment with. A few have thefollowing uses: 3rd bottle of white powder — defoliant which causes 1- 10 hit points of damage to vegetable life forms (ie. shambling mounds, treants, etc.) or will absolutely wipe out a 10’ square area of vegetation; a total of 10 handfuls of powder are in the bottle
2nd, 7th, and 9th bottles — these are clear fluid acids which cause 3d4 hit points of damage when spilled ‘over any living creature
5th jar of green powder — highly poisonous chemical which must be saved against at -1 if touched, -5 if tasted
20th jar of pink powder — contains 36 doses of a chemical which will enable a human to have infravision to a 90' range for 6 turns
4st large ceramic bottle — holds a greenish fluid which will cause plants to grow (add 2-8 hit points per application to vegetable life forms, otherwise it will act as a plant growth in a 10’x10' area, ifentire bottle is used, 20 applications in the container); the vege- Pygmies will consider this a great treasure andattack to get it for its odor will drive them to a frenzy at 30°
2nd large ceramic container — this is lined with a special material, for it contains an acid which will eat through deck metal in 4 turn; the entire contents will eat away a 10’ diameter section of the deck. Onlyone deck will be dissolved. Ifthe acidis used as a weapon it will cause 3-18 points of damage the first round, 2-12 points the second round, and 1-6 points on the third ‘and final round.
All bottles are made of glass unless otherwise specified.
LIBRARY: This place is not in terrible shape because there is nothing in it to interest the vegepygmy folk — the worst looters, of course. It holds many small, fixed tables, comfortable chairs, and 24 microfilm viewers. The microfilm storage cabinets are sealed and maintained by the computer. One viewer in six is operational ‘and will show something ifthe switch is thrown and the character looks into the viewing section. For two full turns a viewer will show either totally unintelligible writing and diagrams (alien + technical), views of stars, planets, and other similar things, or pictures of alien life forms (none of which are useful as they are not included in the kinds taken aboard). After two turns, there is a one in six chance that the viewer will begin showing schematics of ship levels |, Il!, and V. All of the viewers operate at a fastrate,so. when these appear describe the scene as a circular form with many lines, marks, and colors upon it. Allow 6 questions and about one minute of explanation per level. After showing each level there is a one in six chance of the viewer breaking, and after showing the V level it will positively break. Only one of the viewers will show levels.
Beneath one table is a skeleton of a human. It has rags of what was obviously a uniform, with braid and colorful attachments (medals and ribbons) which will clue the inquisitive character that the wearer was an important person. There is a sealed cabinet behind this skeleton, and a comer of a gray card is peeping out from beneath this storage box; but only ifthe cabinet is being carefully examined, or the area within 10’ ofthe skeleton is minutely searched will the card be discovered. There are only 3 other (unremarkable) skeletal remains in the whole place.
POLICE HQ: USE ILLUSTRATION #30. There will be 1-3 police robots in the first room ofthis complex. They will inquire what the nature of business of any entrant is, and the language will be totally unintelligible without some scientific or magical means of understanding, although the robots can translate the characters’ speech in 4 turn. The robots will then apprehend (see section on Police robots at the end of the module) the characters and place them in the security cells (six 10’ x 10’ rooms to thenorth) — as few per cell as possible — for detention and questioning by a “proper authority” unless the party has a red, gray or orange card to show. Of course, there are no “proper authorities” anymore, and prisoners will starve to death, as the computer controlled feeding devices in the area turn out drinkable liquids but indigestible food. The cell locks (located in the doors) operate by any of the cards mentioned (gray, red, or orange). The cells have walls on three sides while across the frontthereis a row of short projecting studs on both the top and thebottom. In thecenterofthis “wall” is a small post with a card lock similar to those found on other doors. Below this is a button and a dial that control the force screen. When a cell is in use, the force screen will be turned on and an invisible wall will radiate in the area between the studs. The. cells are force field shells, so magic willnotfunctionbeyond them, but coldhas a 10% chance of causing a lock to malfunction, fire balls (from outside and distant, hopefully... ) and magic missiles have a 50% chance, and lightning/electricity a 10% chance per die of damage. The robots will not take away any gear from prisoners unless the item was used to attack one oftheir number or is a weapon they are familiar with (pistols, etc.).
Atvarious times robots will leave, so atsome point within 42 turns there will be only 4 robot there, but there is a 4 in 12 chance of another entering each turn.
Alocked metal chest in the corer farthest fromthe cells contains 2 gas masks (give total immunity to all gasses on the ship), 12 sleep gas grenades, and 2 neediler pistols with 1 clip of ammunition for each. (Weapons are detailed at the end ofthe module.) The chest can be forced open with magical weapons — one in six chance per weapon per round of forcing. It will also open by gray or red card placement in its lock slot.
The first police robot disabled/destroyed here by the party will havea red card stored in itschest compartment, butitwillhaveto be pried out carefully, so there is a 50% chance of destroying it, lowered 10% for each point of dexterity above 14 ofthe character making the attempt.
South Room: Note that this area can be entered only by a red color card. It is the office of the former chief security officer. Use ILLUSTRATION #10 to depict the room and ILLUSTRATION #14 to illustrate the console. His uniformed skeleton still sits behind the desk, but it has nothing —card or weapon. Built into the desk is a monitoring screen with an off-on switch, a 56 position slider (each former levelofthe ship —positions 1 1-16 now showlevels|-VI of this module), and three dials (100s, 10s, 1s) which show specific rooms on each level (and naturally the room key is long since gone). Close up lenses are malfunctioning, so only wide angle views of rooms (or the four comers of areas larger than 50’ square) are available. Dark areas have infrared lens viewing, but only one in six of these lenses still function. There is a 1% chance Per round, cumulative, that use of the viewer will cause its total malfunction. The room also has the personal locker of the chief. This is locked and can be opened in the same fashion as the metal chest outside. In the locker are:
— the rags of a full dress uniform upon which are several gem encrusted medals (3 pieces of jewelry worth 1,000 - 4,000 QP. each)
— @ blaster pistol on full charge (see section at end of module)
— asuit of powered armor (seesectionat end ofmodule) that ‘nad a malfunction which was to be repaired but was not before the disaster wiped out the crew; this armor functions as follows (roll da):
. normal for 10 rounds, freezes into immobility for 2-12 rounds, and then roll again
short circuits for 3d6 hit points of damage to wearer (-1 hp. per die for each +1 of a ring of protection, -1 hp. per die for a ring of fire resistance); the person must immediately remove the armor, for he or she will sustain like damage each round thereafter, and after 10 rounds the suit will be totally destroyed; removal causes 2-12h.p. of damage as above.
crossed circuitry causes suit to behave erratically, so that wearer moves backward on a 4 or 2, sideways on a 3 (left) ‘or 4 (right), falls over on a 5, leaps 10’ ahead on a 6, behaves normally on 7-9, but on 40 the built-in laser pistol (right arm) fires ahead while the armor remains motion- less
suit fluid systems ignite and cause a deadly gas to fill the suit, so wearer must save versus poison or die. If the suit is removed, this gas fills the 10’ square area immediately around it, and the next round fills a 20’ radius area, but saves outside the suit are at +4 or +2 at 40° or 20’ radius distance. If a small green cannister is taken from the locker wall, pointed at the suit, and atab pulled, it will cover the suitwith a foam which will instantly neutralize the gas
STORES: This small centralemergency stores compartment isthe only stocked room of its kind on the ship. There are various crates and containers of materials which are totally unrecognizable and unuseable by the party. There are sufficient foodstuffs to equal 100 iron rations packages. There is a packet of 4 each of the following ampules: disease cure, poison antidote, radiation antidote. There are also 14 cannisters of healing spray, but only one in six are still functioning, and those that do function (dé, roll of) will have from one to six charges (curing 2-24 hp. perspray). ‘A small brown box with violet labels on it holds a “Repair Robot Remote Control” which can be used to summon and control a worker robot by vocal commands (see end of module). However, each turn of operation has a 2% cumulative chance that the Power pack will drain, a blue light on the panelwill blink, and in 1- 10 rounds the remote will go dead. Any power disc will reduce chance of failure by 5% per charge in the disc, but it too will eventually drain and the remote will go dead.
N
2
-
SMALLARMS LOCKER: USE ILLUSTRATION #142. Note that it requires agray card to enter. The place is made of plasteel, and it cannot be broken into except with a laser drill. The locker is partially stripped, but still inside are racks and containers of: 10 needler pistols, 8 paralysis pistols, 4 laser pistols, 2 laserrifies, 1 blasterrifie. There are three boxes each containing 20 grenades: sleep, incendiary, and explosive. A fully operational suit of power armor is in a closed and locked locker (at the end of arowof7 opened ones). A locked metal chest holds 20 power discs and 20needier clips. (See the section on weapons at the end of the module for details on how to use any weapon and the weapon itself.)
COMPUTER CENTRAL: USE ILLUSTRATION #43. In the center of the room is what appears to be an altar. Itis supported by a single metal column and 2 arms are bent towards the door. The wall opposite the door is made entirely of glass, although this is too dark to see through. (This is the viewing screen. The entire wall will show a picture when the master switch is thrown.) There are 3 skeletons sprawled near the altar. In the center of the altar are 6 fist-sized circular windows (dials), 3 coin-sized holes below them (view screencontrols), and a single metal box under these (view screen master switch). To the left of these are 10 small blocks set in grooves (sliders), andto the right are 2 rows of rivets (buttons). The wings of the altar are decorated with panels of small glass squares set in rows (key consoles). USE ILLUSTRATION #14, This is ‘one of the terminals and is now only in touch with a smaller auxiliary computer. The large master switch will turn on the visual display screen above the control panel, while a mechanical voice will begin to relate what is being shown and report on the state ofthe ship in that area — allin an alien language, ofcourse. The recessed controls are three buttons: OFF, HOLD, CLOSE-UP.
ORiGcinaL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Pictures flash on and off in 6 seconds (1 segment). There is also a 120-key console for input; 8 switches, 10 sliders, 6 dials, and 10 buttons. Ifany of the buttons, levers, etc. are depressed, moved or whatever, the violet mold culture at Lab b will be fed, and one of the following will result (roll 12).
4. minor fire: automatic system immediately sprays a chemical extinguisher upon it and putsitout,a green light blinks, anda repair robot will come in 1-3 turns to repair the damage ship lights brighten/dim: if seep (dark) period is in progress, the lights will dim again automatically in 1 turn view screen malfunction; green and amber lights blink, indicating repair and police robots are on their way; the screen is out until repaired; both robots due in 1-3 turns cargo displacement/unloading ordered: worker robots discharge cargo (a bulette) whilescreen displays this activity ‘anti-gravity in control room: treat as reverse gravity for 1 round, then gravity returns (10' fall for most characters), and computer acts as noted in 1. above . close and lock all doors: this is a security alert measure which will bring 4 police robots to the computer centralroom unless 7 of 10 occurs; pink and amber lights flash when the alert occurs unlock doors: security alert cancelled; pink and amber lights go out
8. all power to androids shut off/on
9. all power to worker robots shut off/on 410. all power to police robots shut off/on 44. drop tubes sealed: all power shut off/on for tubes and lifts 412. full alert: all doors and sphincters shut and locked; red lights
flash, alarm sounds at 10 second intervals; sleep gas will be pumped into the central complex of rooms in 1 round; 4 Police robots and 2 worker robots will enter the computer room in 2-8 rounds; only a gray card slipped into a slot in the console and the action noted in 7. will cancel the alert. Once it has been discovered what a particular controlwill do, the control will always have the same results. Any attempt to destroy computer related equipment in this area will result in 42. above, with robots attempting to kill all unidentified creatures without gray or red color cards found in the computer room
eon
a
o
oe
NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. LURKER ABOVE: AC 6, HD 10, hp 59, #AT 1, D 1-6, smothers all victims in 2-5 rounds (check foreach separately). Surprises 4 in 6. The floor beneath the creatureis covered with bits ofrags, bones of various creatures, pygmy husks, and a violet card.
2. SMALL REPAIR ROBOT: USE ILLUSTRATION #45. This robot has been battered, and its main circuitry is broken. Small hand tools scattered aroundit can be used to openits chest plate where 2-5 intact gem bearings can be pried out ata one in six risk of taking 1-6 hp. electrical discharge damage per gem. Each is worth 50 gp.
3. POLICE ROBOT AREA: USE ILLUSTRATION #16. From 1-6 robots will be in this area, but they will not question any character displaying an orange, red or gray color card. Possession ofa card will not allowcharacters to command the policerobots.
a. REPAIR PARTS AREA: There are 12 power discs here amidst numerous parts, and locating them will require five rounds of searching.
b. DISABLED ROBOTS AREA: There are 14 police robots herein various stages of repair, and a worker will be busily engaged in fixing one. There is nothing of value here.
c. ARSENAL: There are cases of grenades of all types here, and power discs in locked metal boxes. A dozen ofeach of the three grenade types and power cells are plainly visible on a bench. Any attempt to remove weapons or power cells openly will result in attack by police robots regardless of color card presented, but whatever can be hidden away can be gained. A police robot will check on
activities within the robot arsenal once every 3rd round!
4, MOTIONLESS FEMALE FORM: This is a seemingly unconscious beautiful human female, but in reality it is a berserk, malfunctioning android — AC 3, 15” move, 35 hit points, 2 attacks /round, 4-8/1-8 without any weapons, attacks as a 7 hit dice monster. This servant mechanism is armed with a 2’ long metal bar (2-12 h.p. damage) and a paralysis pistol When any creature comes within 20’ it will spring up and attack twice with the pistol. Thereafter, it will use the bar if opponents are within range, or the pistol otherwise. The paralysis weapon has a full power disc (six charges).
5. 5 DISPLACER BEASTS: AC 4, MV 15”. HD 6, hp 38, 35, 24, 22, 20. #AT 2, D 2-8/2-8. Opponent attacks are -2 on dice; saves versus magical attacks as 12th level fighter with bonus of +2 on dice. If there are more than 10 persons in sight, there is a 60% chance that the beasts wil flee unless they have been surprised. Once engaged, they will fight fo the death. Amidst the litter of their nest area is a brown color card
PHASE SPIDERS: These are a dwarf variety: AC 7, MV 6""15", HD 5 -5 }), #AT 4, D1-3. Poison of these creatures is full strength (-2 on all saves). There are 3 spiders here, 1 adult and 2 newly hatched; hp: 23, 7, 5. Caught in their webs near the ceiling is a jet black card. In the pool of water beneath (which the spiders use as a lure to attract prey, the water coming from a leaking overhead pipe) are 7 small gem bearings, beryls worth 100 g.p. each.
. SHIP COMMANDER'S QUARTERS: This five room suite served as the apartment for the commander and his family. Everything therein is disordered from the frantic plague days, but nothing has been looted. The main room is the living room and reception area, with couches, arm chairs, small tables, paintings, etc. Several skeletons ore there also. There is nothing worth looting here.
a. Personal chamber of the commander. Besides his bedroom furniture and effects there is a small desk. Inside are a full set of cards (jet, brown, violet, yellow, orange, red) save a gray which is shoved into a stack of papers. The small room to the southeast is a locked closet/ storage area; in it are clothing in fair shape, aneedlerwith four clips of ammunition, and much worthless junk. The lock works on the commander's hand print. The lavatory cabinet contains two capsules of cyanide (instant death, no save). A locked plasteel security safe in the desk can be opened only by means of lasering the lock mecha- nism for six charges, for the lock was keyed to the thumb print of the commander. Inside are orders regarding the ship's destination and activities, 100 plastic encased diamonds worth 100 g.p. each (these are emergency coins), and a packet which will explode for 50 h.p. damage in a 10! radius if it is opened (opener gets no save, others in the blast radius will). This packet is also keyed to the commander's thumb print.
b. Private lounge and dining area which is nicely furnished and appointed. Allis intact.On a side board are six crystal flasks of rare spiritous liquors. #1 is now deadly poison (-4 on saves), #2-4 are still excellent and intoxicating (delay partyfor 6 fulltumsifanyoneis sampled!), #5 givesa +4 on dexterity reactions for 4 full turn after consumption of 4 ounce (flask holds 20 ounces initially), and #6 tastes excellent but will cause double vision (-2 on attacks, +2 to be hit) in 4 turn to anyone tasting it (the effect lasts for 3 tums).
¢. This room is an unremarkable master bedroom. There are many drawers of clothing and the like, but thereis nothing of value here, except that which appears to be a tin spaceship on a table is actually a 1,000 g.p. platinum commendation.
d. This is the personal retreat of the commander's wife. in it are a divan, dressing table, small desk, and several
bl
~“
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
4
lounge chairs. A skeleton lies on the divan. Behind the dressing table is a jewelry case with 4 rings (value 2,000, 750, 300, and 50 g.p. respectively), 6 bracelets (2 are worth 41,000 and 600 g.p. respectively), and 3 necklaces (one set with 7 aquamarines worth 500 g.p. each, jewelry value 4,000 g.p.) A shoe near the skeleton hides her grey color card.
8. SECURITY CHIEF'S QUARTERS: This place is also basically intact. The main room is a living/reception room. There is one skeleton in the place, but nothing of value.
a. Personal lounging and dining area. A bottle of liquor on the buffet is treated with a drugto cause personsimbibing it to tell the absolute truth for 3 rounds. One doseis equal to one ounce, and there are 7 ounces left. (DM, here is your chance to sow some dissension . . . ).
b. Chiefs personal office and study. There are three chairs, a case of various worthless books (although they might be of interest toa sage), and a desk. Apress panelonthe side ofthe desk holds three orange cards and ablasterwhose power disc has shorted and ruined it so as to make it permanently unworkable.
¢. Dressing room with nothing of apparent value, but there are two intact uniforms in a wall wardrobe.
d. Master bedroom. Another skeleton is here, sprawled on the floor near the bed, Under some rags nearby is a small metal box with several buttons, a dial, and a grille. It isa command control for police robots, but the voice command is keyed to the chief, so it is useless. If the orange and red buttons are pressed simultaneously, all police robots within 30’ are shut off untilthe control box is beyond the 30’ range. If either button is pressed separate- ly, it will call police robots (4 or 2/orange or red) — or release those shut down. It can be used only 7 times before it malfunctions and is ruined.
9. 3 WILL-O'-WISPS: AC -8, MV 18",HD9, hp 49, 44, 38, #AT 1,D 2-16. These creatures will attempt to lure victims to a radiation area (43). There is a 2 in 6 chance that 1 or 2 willbe awayroaming the corridors to the east but will retum in 3-30 rounds (roll for each separately). These monsters have a collection of shiny materials (stainless steel tableware, reflectors, chrome fittings, etc.). Amongst this collection are 2 100g.p. gems, 650 g.P. gems, and a plastic tubular instrument — this device is eight inches long and about three in diameter, a language translator (see end of module for description). The current power disc will drain in three usages. Note that all treasure is mixed up in a jumble of junk, furnishings, and the like.
0. SHRIEKERS AND FUNGI: The vegepygmies indicated by numeric key 14. grow fungito eat and raise shriekers to seve as a warning system for them. The vegepygmies know howto move around the shriekers without causing them to sound off, but are ready for trouble whenever the fungi begin their wailing. Shriekers are at the two 10. positions (5-8 at each), while the otherfungi growin a humus layer spread along the length of the passage.
. VEGEPYGMIES: AC 4, Move 12”, #AT 1, damage by weapon type: HD 4, hp: 5; weapon is dart’ (1-3 h.p.) HD 2, hp: 14; weapon is javelin® (1-6 h.p.) : 17; weapon is club (1-6 h.p.) 24; weapon is mace-like (2-7 h.p.) 1; weapon is flail-like (2-8 h.p.) 8; weapon is halberd-like (1-10 h.p.)
°2 per creature or special (leaders only)
These creatures sprang up from radiationtwisted hydroponic cultures that affected exposed humans, but they are now able to bud and propagate. Their mottled gray-brown coloration enables them to blend with ship walls in many areas, so as to be 50% invisible. Weapons are fashioned from material aboard the vessel and are crude but effective.
There are 4 vegepygmies per 10’ of room space, 1 of each size from 1 HD to 4 HD, and 4 jet black color card. They act in concert, and if fighting occurs, a call will always go out for their fellows to join the battle if the combatants survive the initial round. The minor vegepygmies have nothing of value.
44a. This is the location of the leader (HD 6, hp: 38) and 5
4 HD sprouts. It has an orange and a violet color card. If battle occurs within 50’ of its lair, there is a 20% chance per 10 of proximity (50’ = 20%, 40’ = 40%, 30’ = 60%, 20' = 80% and 40’ = 100%) that the leader will bring out one of the weapons it has hoarded (but fears to use). These weapons are (d6):
- 2 sleep gas grenades (1 or 2)
- 1 explosive grenade (3)
- 1 laser pistol, 4 charges (4 or 5)
- 4 blaster rifle, 2 charges (6) There is a 10% chance of maifunction of either the pistol or rifle on first use only. These are hiddenbehindthegrilleofan air duct. Once a weapon malfunctions, it will be totally useless.
(See section at end of module for more details of vegepygmies.) 42. VEGEPYGMIES: This southem group is slightly different from
13.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
those in the north with whom they compete (but not usuallyin combat) in that the members are splotched with patches of green chlorophyll, so they are 50% invisible onty when near greenish areas of vegetation. They live with dog-like creatures (thomies) with the following statistics: AC 3, MV 15", HD 4,hp 20 + 1-10, #AT 4, D 2-5 (plus 3-12 ripping damage from their thorn-like growths if in close combat), animal intelligence, man-sized. There will be 3 vegepygmies per 10’ of room space, 1 of each size from 1 HD to 3 HD, plus 1 dog-creature per room. There is a jet black card in the possession of each toom group. Weaponswill be thesame asthe northern group with the exception of leaders.
42a. Subchief of 5 HD, 3 sprouts of 3 HD, and 3 “thornies”. It has a yellow card.
412b. Subchief of 5 HD, 5 sprouts of 3 HD, and 4 “thornies”. It
has a violet card.
Subchief of 5 HD, 2 sprouts of 3 HD, and 2 “thomies". It has a brown card.
412d. Chief of the southern vegepygmies, a 6 HD creature, with 4 sprouts of 4 HD, and 6 “thomies”. The chiefcarries @ spray can into battle, an aerosol hypnotic with a 6’ range. Ifthe creature sprayed fails tosaveversus poison ata -3, itis treated as asleep and subjectto suggestion for 5 rounds. (Note however that the suggestion must be made in a language understandable to the affected monster). Its treasure is in a hollowbedframe in the room: 4 red color card, 1 poison gas grenade, 4 sleep gas grenade, 4 gem bearings of 100 g.p. value each, and a broken communicator.
Note: The southern group of vegepygmies will not attack without a subchieforchiefunless themselves attacked, and in the latter case they will break off and get away as soon as possible.
“Thornies” are attack trained and willobey sucha command from any southern vegepygmy, fighting to the death. As with the vegepygmies, these dog-creatures are not harmed by pointed weapons piercingthem, taking but 1 h.p. ofdamage from such attacks.
These rooms are radiation-filled and contain contaminants which require a saving throw versus poison. If this save is not made, the exposed creatures will begin to notice a sickness in 2-5 tums, and in 6 turns thereafter they will begin to lose 1 point of strength per hour due to the effect of the radiation sickness. When strength reaches 2 the individual is unable to walk. At -4 strength the person is dead. Anti-radiation serum will stop the sickness, and strength will beregainedthereafter at 1 point per hour.
12¢.
44, ART WORKROOM: There are pigment tubes strewn here and there, colors splashed on the walls, bits of canvases, broken easel and brush remains, and similar materials in the foreroom and in room 14a.
44b. Various stone, wood, clay, metal, and plastic sculptures in varying stages of completion (or destruction). Some are of vaguely recognizableform — thelargesta 3’ bust of a human head shape. It will be noticed that the majority ofthe wood and metalobjects are “decayed”, and that the large bust appears to be leprous — as ifit were composed of rotting clay. The clay-like material is actually grayooze — AC 8, HD 3 +3,hp 22, #AT1,D 2-16. Anotheris on the ceiling above (hp 17) coveringa 6’ by 2’ area. Anyone approaching the bust will be attacked by both oozes. The bust covered by the ooze has 2 gem eyes (base 500 gp. topazes).
45. DOPPLEGANGER PACK: 9 dopplegangers lurk around this area.AC 5,MV9", HD 4, hp 27, 24, 22, 21, 20, 18, 15, 15,12, #AT 4, D 1-12; surprise on a one in four, ESP and imitate with 90% accuracy; save as 10th level fighter. These monsters wait until creatures are using the tube, and then attack those still awaiting their turn. The arrows indicate possible hiding places. Although they have no treasure, the drop tube still bears a poster on its north outer wall showing the location of this tube and the other three as circles on a general outline map of the whole level. Tube procedures and safety measures are printed underneath the map, and these instructions can be read with magical aid. Included are statements fo the effect that unauthorized persons are not to enter service deck areas.
BLASTER PISTOL: This weapon is laying amidst the debris on the floor! It has a full power disc (6 charges). There is a 5% chance per person passing it that it will be kicked and noticed. There is a 2% chance per person that it will be stepped on and ruined. Check each passerby separately. If the party is searching the floor area, there is a10% chanceper searcher that it will be found. Blasterpistolsare described fully at the rear of the module.
16.
e
KEY TO LEVEL II: SERVICE DECK 5, OR ’TWEEN DECKS
USE ILLUSTRATION #17 WHENEVER A PARTY ENTERS THIS OR THE OTHER (level V) ‘TWEEN DECKS AREA.
CROSSHATCHED AREAS: These are potential danger areas. Generally, all wiring and piping is protected by metal as are all machines. Certain generators and transformers can cause troubles. if any character insists on striking, poking, prodding, or otherwise attacking these areas withmetal instruments, thereis a 410% chance per round that the individual will electrocute and permanently kill himself or hersetf. If not so killed, there is a 10% chance that a minor explosion willbe caused. An area 10’ distant from the affected generator/transformer/whatever will be subject to a blast of 5-30 (5d6) hit points of damage, although save versus magic will reduce damage to 50% of the amountrolled. All affected are stunned for 1-6 rounds, regardless of saving throw. Those at the edge of the blast radius may jumpout of the blast by adding their armor class (magical rings and bracers do not count) to the roll of 41d6 and comparing it to a roll of 3d6 by the DM. If the character has a higher score, he or she is clear of the blast. For this check, magic armor is treated as one AC type less than it actually is, Le. scale is treated as ringmail, etc. Also, if an explosion occurs, there is a 5% chance that any other generator/ transformer within 40’ will react in a secondary blast of 5’ radius, 5- 20 hit points damage, and 1-3 rounds of stunning. There will be a series of snappings, cracklings, poppings, and hummings after any explosion. Lights here and there will flicker on and off. Within 1- 4 rounds a worker robot will appear to repair the damaged machinery. If it sees the party and is not shown a brown, violet, or gray card, it will summon 1-3 policerobots which will appear in 1-3 turns.
4. INTELLECT DEVOURER: AC 4, MV 15", HD 6 +6, hp 44, #AT4, D 2- 5(x4) (attacks are at 9 HD level and damage +4 as shown due to the creature's size and strength); impervious to most spells and weapons under +3 — lasers do no harm, but a
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
blaster causes 2-8 (2d4) hp.; the ‘devourer can hide in shadows with 63% chance of success.
This monster is trapped ‘tween decks, for the ship's energy fields prevent it from becoming ethereal and even its great intelligence does not understand the concept of doors operated by color cards. It came to be in this situation as follows: In its early stages, the plague caused insanity in the infected person, and in this state the commander of the vessel entered a cargo hold. In his madness, the captain tripped off a stasis field which held a particularly evil form of alien fauna — the intellect devourer. Freed from its cage, the creature preyed upon the demented commander and assumed his form. Some crewmen, still unaffected by the sickness, realized that there was something teribly wrong and organized a hunt for the thing which possessed their captain's body. One of the hunters soon became the hunted, ‘and the chase eventually led to the ‘tween decks. The crewman blasted the flesh of the body away, but the ‘devourer then did for him. (Itwas during this combatthatthe hole was blasted in the deck,givingaccess to the cargo hold beneath.) The crewman's bones and blaster (2 charges left) are in the hold, along with his orange card.
The intellect devourer will come to any explosion in 2-5 rounds. It will pick up the thoughts of any person upon the deck in 3-12 rounds after their entry, unless it is in the cargo hold (40% chance). In the latter event it will emerge in 1-6 turns and then rounds for sensing thoughts must be determined. Once thoughts are discovered, the creature will move to the area and stalk its prey.
SHY HY
Jumbled bones of the captain, with his laser pistol with 4 charges left on the power disc. The dotted line points towards his grey card. The chance of spotting the card is 5% per person if a cursory examination of the area is made, 20% per Person if a thorough search is conducted. Check separately for each individual.
. WHEELY SLED: USE ILLUSTRATION #18. There are three such devices on the level — 6' long, 3’ wide, 4’ high maintenance vehicles. These devices are propelled by a battery operated engine which is recharged at various plug-in terminals on the level. Speed is 1” to 15” depending on lever setting. The controls are the speed lever, on/off switch, and flush steering wheel with lift and lock hand grasp. Capacity is 4 {on If unsteered, roll 1d8 for direction (1 = N, 3 6 = SW, 7 = W, 8 = NW). The platform is semi-flexible, oa the device can turn 45? in 6’ as all of its wheels turn on the new course, but high speed tums are likely to cause passengers to fly off (2% chance per 1” of speed, cumulative, i.e. 2%, 4%, 6%, 8%, etc. to 30% at 15” speed). A sudden impact will cause 4 hp. of damage per 1” of speed if passengers strike a hard substance such as a bulkhead.
4. REPAIR ROBOT: USE ILLUSTRATION #49. This robot is recharg- ing its batteries at a power terminal. If the party has brown cards it will ignore them. If they have a violet or gray color card, and can communicate with it, the robot will obey and follow, butt will runoutofpowerin 6 tums as its accumulators are deficient. If the party has no brown, violet, or gray cards or if not shown any card, the robot will alert police robots to investigate, even if it is shown orange or red cards.
NOTE: The jagged black area in the northwest is the hole blasted in the deck and leads to the cargo hold below — this is indicated on the level Il map as well.
»
43. RADIATION AREA: See Key to Level |.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED
KEY TO LEVEL Ill: UPPER WALKWAY AND LOUNGE AREA
‘WANDERING MONSTERS: Encounter occurs 4 in 20, check each tum. 41. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5) 2-5. nothing 6. lurker above: 7. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6) 8-14. nothing 12. green slime When the party steps onto the walkway, DISPLAY ILLUSTRATION #20.
‘CARGO HOLDS: These areas are still filled with huge crates and containers which hold building materials, fertilizers, and similar colonization materials. There will be some destruction of goods noted, as well as human bones here and there — the remains of the plague when crewmen went insane. The party willfind nothing of value in any cargo hold not specially noted.
LIFTS within cargo holds are floor elevators for cargo transfer between these holds and those below. They are operated by strong depression of colored floor panels on the lifts — the green Plate for down, the silvery one for up, and the blue plate for emergency stop. While the lifts are functioning well, the emergency stop will cause malfunction 50% of the time, stalling the elevator for from one to fourturns, and there is a 20% chance Per turn that a worker robot will show up to repair the trouble. Unless a violet card is displayed to the robot, it will call for 1-3 police robots.
LOUNGES: These rooms are still in a relatively good state of repair. There are tables and chairs, loungers, couches, amusement devices, and so forth. There are some bones, but there are no skeletons.
Cocktail Lounge, Bar, Dancing, Night Club area is unremark- ‘able, and there is no longer any power in the area. There are several bottles in a carton in the for comer of the bar area, and one contains alcohol which is highly inflammable (bums for 3 melee rounds causing 3-12 (3d4) h.p. of damage toallcreatures in a 5’ radius globe).
KITCHENS: These facilities are robokitchens like those on level. NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. ROPERS’ TERRITORY: 3 ropers inhabit this space — AC 0, MV 3”, HD 10/11/12, hp 47/50/62, #AT 4, D 5-20; 1-6 strands from 20’- 50’, hits causing weakness in 1-3 rounds (lasts 1-3 turns); blaster damage is normal, but laser hits cause +4 hit points.
One roper will be on the walkway “fishing” for small arboreal creatures in the tree tops 20’ to 40’ below. It is 80% indistinguishable from the pillar which supports the over- head. Its two companions lurk just inside the dark entry to the cocktail lounge. These creatures each have 2-12 base 10g.p. gems in their gizzard-like organs, and during the course of their hunting, they have collected the following treasure: 2 dud explosive grenades, 1 fire extinguisher (the cold of the CO will cause 1-4 hp. damage to mammals and other similar creatures with warm blood, 1-6 hp damage to cold blooded creatures, and 3-12 hit points of damage to plant life) with 3 rounds of propeliant, a spoolof platinum wire worth 1,600 g.p., and an anti-gravbelt (see section atthe end ofthe module for details).
2. STRANGLE VINES: USE ILLUSTRATION #24. AC 6,MV (creep) 14”, HD special (attacks as a 4 HD monster), unlimited number of attacks, 1-4 h.p. of squeezing damage plus 10% chance to wrap around neck and strangle to death; a vine section can be cut or chopped away on a hit, but next round a new section will be there to attack; plant is immune to normal (torch-like) fires, but will be burned and withdraw from burning, oil, magical fire, laser hits or blasterhits. Cold freezes
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
o
the vines in the area struck, but thawing occurs in 2-5 rounds unless three charges (from the fire extinguisher or its equivalent) are expended. Any electrical attacks double the vines’ growth and movement rate onthe followingturn. These creepers are attracted to the strongest light source, Le. continual light, bright ship's light, light, lantern, magic sword glow, torch light.
VAMPIRE THORN VINES: USE ILLUSTRATION #22. AC 4, Move special, HD special (attack as 3 HD monster), 4 attacks per 410’ of vine, any hit will drain fluids from the body, causing damage equal to 25% of that character's maximum hit points. There are four long tendrils along each 10’ of the vine, and these have a 5’ lashing range. Each tendril has numer- ous hollow thorns of one to four inch length through which it draws the juices of its victim. A tendril takes 6 hit points to destroy, a 10’ vine section takes 20 hit points plus tendril values. Any sort of flame orgreatheat will cause the tendrils to. recoil, but electrical attacks cause the vine to regenerate damage equal to the number of hit points of the electrical attack mode. A vampire thorn vine can creepat 4” permelee found, and light attracts one just as it does strangle vines. Cold affects it as it does a strangle vine.
. DINING SERVO ROBOT: Most of these robots have been
scrapped, but this one stillftunctions — orrathermalfunctions. It will immediately attempt to seat any persons entering the dimly lit lounge area, and then begin serving them heaping dishes of “food”. The substance in the dishes will be a decaying mush covered with nauseous blue-green mold. If any creature so much as tastes a drop of it, it will cause insanity the next round as the blue-green spores attack the brain. Insanity lasts for 4-4 turns, and the person then dies. The effects are curable with either neutralize poison or a disease curative solution or spell. Purify food and drink will have no effect. If the party refuses to eat, the servo will attempt to force feed the closest person, pursuing the party if they attempt to flee, although the servo will not leave the level. The seivo robot: AC 3, MV 15”, HD 6, hp 36, #AT 2 (grapples with 18/50 strength) while 2 tentacles shove “food” into the person's face. 4a. A heap of bones from previous diners, cleaned up and placed here by the servo. Amidst these remains are a jet black and a violet card, an empty neediler, and three pieces of jewelry (1,000 to 4,000 g.p. value each).
3-36 WEBBIRDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #23. AC 8, MV 3"/18”,HD 4, hp 4 each, see below for attacks and damage. These fairly intelligent creatures appear to be beakless birds of raven size. Close inspection will reveal a slitted maw with numerous small and pointed teeth in it. They have long and spikey- appearing tails and a small, drooping chest appendage. Whenever a party approaches within 40’ of their area, the webbirds will fly overhead and attempt to capture them with their webs which they spin. When this occurs roll a d6, adding 4 to the result for every 6 of the webbirds overhead:
under 3 — webbirds ineffective in attacking
3105 — webbirds snare one character, and he or she is held fast for 2-8 rounds
6to 8 — webbirds spin webs at 2-5 persons, and those covered will require 2-5 rounds to get free
over 8 — webbirds spin webs over entire party,
and they are slowed to 1” perround movement until webs are destroy- ed, and entanglement makes attacks impossible for the duration
of the round
Webs are somewhat similar to those of spiders but are not inflammable. Strength of 17 shortens immobilization time by 4 round, 18 strength by 2 rounds. One flask of wine (or other
44
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
alcoholic liquid) will loose one individual in one melee round.)
As soon as any individual is held fast by webs, 1-4 of these creatures will fly down and alight upon him or her. Their chest appendage is inserted into the immobile victim's flesh, and the webbirds commence to deposit their eggs therein. These eggs will hatch in 3-6 (104 + 2) turns, and thereafter the larva-like grubs will begin to devourthe host, causing extreme pain and 2-8 hit points of damage per turn until the host dies and the webbird grubs can crawl out. Any disease curative will kill the grubs.
Webbirds shun flame, and any person with a torch will motivate the webbirds to attack those without such flame.
Note: Webbirds can be caught by hand (if “to hit" base score is rolled) and crushed in one round, although the person will always take 1 hit pointfrom a dying bite when so crushing these monsters.
. CARGO HOLD WITH CEILING HOLE: See the key to level II for details of the intellect devourer which will be here on a percentile dice roll of 01 -40. Check again each turn. This hold has a number of stasis cages (now empty). There are bones
strewn about, and under a human skeleton are an orange
card and a blaster rifle (2 charges).
6a. After no less than 2 turns of careful searching the party will discover a wrapped crate — a transparent stasis cage with a black dial, which will free the cage occupants ifturned. The cage holds: 4 COUATL:AC5, MV 6"/18", HD 9, hp 40, 37, 24, 19, #AT 2, D 1-3/2-8 (plus Poison effects on the first attack form). If freed, these creatures will attack the intellect devourer and slay it ifit ‘appears, or they will go forth and kill the webbirds (driving survivors into hiding for 2-5 hours), but not both. The couat! will not attack their rescuers, and if needed, they will use one cure disease and two cure light wounds spells (per couatl) upon party members before depart- ing.
The intellect devourerfreed other creatures from stasis in order
to eat them, but it knew that these would be too much to
handle. When it sees the couat! it will flee — but to no avail,
although the two small couatls will be slain during the fight.
ROBOT STATION: Each of these rooms will contain 1 police robot and 3 worker robots. There is a 50% chance thateachis non-functioning.
. GREEN SLIME: The growth to the east near the drop tube is above the doorway and will drop off 2 in6 — check foreach character passing through until 4 pieces of slime have dropped. That which grows to the south is covering the rail of the walkway, and Is of a bluish coloration which makes it seem as if the paint is peeling from the material rather than thatitis covered with green slime.Contactwith this substance tums exposed flesh into green slime within 1-4 melee rounds.
. MAGNIFYING VIEWERS: USE ILLUSTRATION #24. If these binoculars are turned the proper way and adjusted (one in six chance per character attempting to discover their use) they bring objects five times closer, i.e. 100’ is viewed as if the person was only 20’ distant from the subject. This will allow viewing of the level below (and display of appropriate illustrations) if the ship's lights are on. Removal of these viewers from their fixtures will result in destroying their optics and will make them useless.
43. RADIATION AREA: See level | key.
°
#
2
KEY TO LEVEL IV: BOTANICAL GARDENS, ROOKERY, AND MENAGERIE
‘WANDERING MONSTERS: Encounter occurs 4 in 4, check each turn:
4. four-winged bird 7. four-winged bird 2. three-legged monkeyoid 8. squirreloid
3. rabbitoid 9. tree lizardoid
4. white, multitegged grub 10. rabbitoid
5. ratoid 44. 4’ grasshopperoid
6. six-eyed toad 12. rabbitoid (ILLUSTRATION #42)
Note: All encounters arewith HARMLESS creatures unless keyedin the matrix below.
Immediately upon setting foot on this deck it will be apparent to the party that it is teeming with life. A number of calls, whistles, screams, and similar sounds can be heard. This noise does not reach the upper walkway due to a sonic screen. Those areas not covered with foliage will be spread with dead leaves and vegetable matter, bones, rubbish, husks, andsoforth, andearthis slowly spilling onto heretofore bare metal decks. Small creatures — animals, birds, insects, reptiles — can be seen darting here and there.
WHEN THE PARTY ENTERS THE LEVEL DISPLAY EITHER ILLUSTRATION #341 of #32 AS APPLICABLE.
TIERS: The whole botanical garden area is designed to give the impression of naturalness and space. There are tiers rising along the boundary of the place, each being about 5’ higherthan the next. Likewise, a tier descends towards the centrallake, and then the islet in the center of that body is tiered in 10’ heights. These walls are made to appear as natural stone and are generally obscured by vegetation
SMALLANIMAL BURROWS: Artificial burrows carefully built into the outer layers of tiers. Keepers could easily take care of these burrows by means of the work spaces undemeath the rising tiers. These burrows are illustratedas a'“c” shape representing the entry and an “o” or oval representing the den area. They are large enough to permit the entry of a gnome or halfling.
WALKWAYS: The flagged walkways are shown by dottedlines. The circular dotted areas are resting places with stone benches. Vegetation is so thick as to make it impossible to tell what direction a pathway goes. The “S" marks on the circular areas of flagstone are concealed entrances to the ‘tween decks area below.
Serviceway lanes under the tiers have their access in the 10’ wide passage between the garden area and the periphery areas. Small, latched metal doors give into the den portions of the burrows.
STREAMLETS AND POOLS: The solid lines are small streams of running water. They vary in depth from 4’ to 2’ or soandare about aswide as they are deep. The shadedcircles arepools,about 12’ across, shelved from 2’ depth at the edge to about 10’ (despite some silting) in the center. Life abounds in and near them — insects, colorful fish, amphibians, and so forth.
SWAMP as indicated on the level map is an area of the garden where underground piping leaks badly. Combinedwiththe rise of the central lake, a boggy area has occured, withwaterfrom 1‘ to. 3! or so deep between hummocks of vegetation.
LAKE: This body of water was formerly a large, natural aquarium for the enjoyment of upper echelon personnel. Various water creatures of a harmless sort, or marine life confined to water and not overly dangerous, could be viewed from above and belowin the under-islet viewing chamber (see islet, below). It still has numbers of fish breaking its surface now and then, as well as reptilian and amphibian sorts of creatures along its verge. (See cross-section of Underislet Observatory for lake depths.)
12
Bridge access to the islet is illustrated in graphic #32 and #33, if the latter is applicable . . . This is the only normal approach (See 48., below, for details of what will be attracted ifany person Peers over the edge of the bridge.)
ISLET: This centerpiece originally was the setting forthe loveliest of exotic flora and its attendant fauna. There is no path on the small land space, but the way leads directly to a pair of doors which open at a touch of the key plate.
Underislet Marine Observatory is illustrated in cross-section and by ILLUSTRATION #25. The stainway spirals down to 50’, 70’ and 100’ depth observation floors. Ifthe ship's lights are on, the viewers will see various forms of large and smalll fish, and have a one in six chance of getting a glimpse of the “frog-thing” (48.) Glints of gems will be seen from the lake bed! If they use lights in the observatory they absolutely will not only see that creature, but it will begin smashing at the plastiglass observation windows to get at the fender morsels within. The chance to break through is 5% per round. Attempts will cease as soon as the light is extinguished or the party is out of the monster's sight
A small closet on the lowest level of the marine observatory can be opened witha violet card. Inside are a halfdozenwet suits with breathing apparatus in flat chest packs which attach to full bubble-type headgear, swimming foot fins, and back pack Propulsion devices. USE ILLUSTRATION #26. From 2-4 workable sets can be garnered from the six there, but there is a 10% chance per item that lack of technical knowledge will cause the item to malfunction when the wearer enters the water. The chest breathing apparatus will function for 9 turns, and then a buzzing sound will be emitted to indicate that 3 turns of time remain before the pack must be recharged, The back propulsion device has a lever trigger which shoots forth a gas jet; under water this propels the wearer at 12” movement rate for 6 rounds before becoming useless. If used on the surface, it causes an uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after one round and then turned back on.
The rear wall ofthis closet has another small door keyed to aviolet
card, and this opens to a smaller chamber — an air lock. Ifthere
are persons within the 4’ x 8’ room when the door is closed, it will first fill with water, and then an outer hatch will open. The noise of
this is 75% likely to attract 48., the Froghemoth (q.v.).
LETTERED AND NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
A. DEADLY PURPLE BLOSSOM PLANT (see 5., below).
B. DEADLY TRI-FLOWER PLANT (see 5., below).
C. DEADLY SNAPPER-SAW PLANT (see 5., below).
D. THE HORRID PLANT (see 5., below).
E. GLOBE PALM (see 5., below).
Be certain not to confuse B designation plant encounters with
B(brown) color card keyed doors. Also remember that $ denotes
a concealed hatchway to the service deck beneath.
4. 8 LEECHOIDS: USEILLUSTRATION #27. AC 7, MV 3", HD 2+2,hp 15, 14, 4x12, 11, 10, #AT 1, D 1-4. These swamp creatures are nearly identical to the giant leeches common elsewhere. The victim must save versus poison, however, for otherwise the next round he or she will go into a hallucinatory state and lay down in the swamp (duration 3 turns). Blood drain is 2 hit points per round until dead, but the victim can easily drown first.
. LOW GRASS PATCH: USE ILLUSTRATION #28. This is the deadly boring grass, a mutated, camivorous plant which attacks any living thing which rests upon it. The blades are corkscrewed, and they will immediately bite into exposed flesh, inflicting from 5-20 hit points of damage that round, and like amounts on each successive round. On the second and each successive rounds the victim must save versus poison orbe Paralyzed. Any wound inflicted by this stuff slows thevictim to 50% of normal movement, and this slowing remains for 1-4 days or until a neutralize poison spell or device is applied.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
»
Magical protections like a ring +4 will slow the attack by 1 round, so no damage will be taken immediately. It requires 1 round for the boring grass to get through leather soles or thick clothing. Plate soles are impervious to the grass for 6 full rounds — indefinitely if the wearer keeps moving. The grass can be killed by burning it with oil poured upon it, defoliants, or a blaster, incendiary grenade, or explosive grenade. Lasers have too small an area of effect to be sufficient to damage this vegetation seriously.
}. DEADLY REPTILES SECTION: This former viewing section once
provided amusement for passengers, but when the plague struck, most of the force screens were shut offin the mania which attended the disease, and general carnage followed. Only the force screen of the (darkened) first cage in the northern part still remains up, and inside its enclosure can be seen the remains of the pair of horrible monsters which were penned therein. There are numerous small life forms around, but the predominant creatures dwell amidst some boulders and screening vegetation at 3 proper.
2 LIZARDOIDS: AC 5, MV 12" = 3” (clear hop), HD 8, hp 47, 39, #AT 3 (claw, claw, bite), D 1-4/1-4/4-16, animal intelligence, man sized (4%4’ tall). USE ILLUS- TRATION #29.
These mottled near-dinosaurs are 90% unlikely to be spotted until they are within hopping range (3”), and unless seen they will gain surprise or complete surprise (d6, 1 or 2). Theirnest contains three unhatched eggs, numerous bones, husks, a broken laser rifle, a pile of dead leaves with a human skeleton beneath (a nearby pouch has a violet card, an aerosol defoliant can with 4 sprays of 2-8 h.p. damage, and a laser drill which has 6 charges on the power disc — the drill will cut through one inch of ship’s metal (including plasteel) in a 4/40th to one inch diameter hole in one round with one charge), and the end of a gold medallion worth 200 g.p. will be spotted sticking from a pile of droppings.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS SECTION: This area was similar to 3., above, with various ferocious beasts being taken out of stasis for a time and put on display behind the force screens of the cages. The area is a menagerie no longer, but rather the home territory of a brute with a temperament which would make a wolverine seem as a lap dog in comparison:
AURUMVORAX: AC 0, MV 9°(3”), HD 42, hp 84, #AT 4, D 2-8 (plus special attack noted below); animal intelligence; smaller than man-sized. USE ILLUSTRATION #34.
This golden carnivore appears to be a badger-like creature, about 1%’ high and 3’ long, with four legs on each side. It is the fiercest predator in the area, having killed its competitors some time back. It is a high density, very massive creature and weighs over 500 pounds despite its small size — thus its armor class. It will scuttle from hiding to attack, surprising prey 50% of the time. If it succeeds in closing its jaws on a victim, it does not let go, and on the next turn the opponent creature takes an additional 2-8 attacks (clawing) for 1-4 hit points each — besides the automatic 2-8 points from the lockedjaws of the aurumvorax. Only killing the thing willforce it to loose its grip. Gas, poison, or fire do not harm it, butlasers cause half damage and blasters do full damage. Explosive grenades will stun the creature for 1-3 rounds. Needlers have no effect. It has no treasure.
DEADLY PLANTS SECTION: As noted in 3., above, the passen- gers were treated to various displays of dangerous flora and fauna, and during the days of the plague the force cages were generally shut off and the controls destroyed, freeing the exhibits. This area is now jungle-like, with many plants of strange and colorful types. Five of these special sorts are harmful or dangerous:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
A. PURPLE BLOSSOMS: USE ILLUSTRATION #35. This tall (8'- 413’), thick stalked plant has a branchless, scaled trunk with fern-like foliage at the top. These fronds droop a short distance down. Mixed with these are cup-shaped purple flowers with silvery stamens. The flowers point upwards towards the lights in the ceiling. Around the base of the plant is a fine, mossy mat, actually the roots. The flowers exude a very attractive perfume and sweet sop. The vibrations of any creature passing beneath the cupped lavendar blooms will cause them to gently tilt and drip a syrupy poison from the flower, with a 25% chance of the creature being struck by this toxic sap. If the creature fails to save versus poison, it dies instantly, and its decomposi- tion feeds the roots of the plant. Each plant is AC 8 and takes from 21-26 hit points of damage to destroy.
B. TRI-FLOWER FRONDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #36. The deep green 5’-8' tall stalks of this plant are topped by trumpet- shaped flowers of vivid orange, bright yellow, and intense red. Each flower has its own function: The orange one shoots 2-8 3‘ long tendrils fromits center, and any creature struck must save versus the poison from the pollen ofeach tendril or fall into comatose slumber. The yellow bloom will bend over the sleeping victim immediately (sensitive rootlets note where the victim is) and tremble; this vibration loosing a shower of sticky enzyme which causes 2-8 hit points of damage per round until the victim is completely rotted away — each flask of water dumped upon a victim in the same round as the damage is done will reduce damage by 14 hit point, total immersion in water removes the sap entirely. The red flowerextends tubular tendrils of 1’ length, sinking them into the slumbering victim, first drawing body fluids at the rate of 1-6 hit points per turn, and then sucking up the residual matter after the enzyme has dissolved the victim's body.
Note: Other color combinations of the plant's flowers are white, pale silvery-gray, and pink or golden brown, chocolate brown, and russet.
AC 9, each tri-flower frond takes 17-20 (d4 + 16) hit points.
C. SNAPPER-SAW: USE ILLUSTRATION #37. This plant has broad, ribbed leaves radiating out 5’-7’ from its bushy center where plump and delicious smelling white berries abound. Hidden in the bushy center are 3-6 (d4 + 2) tough stalk-like leaves with sharp edges and jagged thorny projections which remind the viewer of a saw. Any creature stepping within the radius of the low growing ribbed leaves will find that these growths will snap shut, holding it fast, and the saw-like stalks then flail the victim to shed its juices and shred its flesh to feed the plant. A trapped creature has a base 5% chance to break free, +5% per point of strength, checking each round. Even if successful in breaking free, the victim is subject to one found of saw stalk attacks. Each saw stalk attacks as a 5 HD monster, inflicting 2-5 hit points of damage. Note: Berries can be transparent golden color or yellow- green. Snapper leaves are AC 7 and take 12 hit points of damage each to sever. Saw stalks are AC 4 and take 20hit points of damage to break. The central bush takes 25-30 (d6 + 24) hit points of damage to kill, and when it is dead, the leaves and stalks die. Bush AC is 9. The berries are non- poisonous.
D. THE HORRID PLANT: USE ILLUSTRATION #38. The leprous yellow-gray and ugly scarlet colors of this intelligent plant belie its peaceful and inoffensive nature, as do its spiky leaves, bloated, bottle-like stems, twitching tendrils and writhing roots. If any intelligent creature comes within 5’ of this creature, thinking questioning thoughts, the plant will communicate telepathically, mentally giving the creature assurance that it is friendly to it, and warning it of the dangerous plants (A., B. C, and E.). It can also give a vague description of the level. If the plant is attacked, it will lash its spiked leaves at the attacker. Range is 5’,
attacks as a 6 HD monster, inflicting 3-12 hit points of damage. If this fails to drive the opponent away, or if it is attacked from a distance beyond its lashing range, the Plant will discharge a bolt of electricity at the nearest attacker, 30 hit points of damage, no saving throw! (Itcan do this once every other round, 4 times maximum.) The plant is AC 6 and takes 63 hit points. Once attacked it will not communicate with the party.
E. GLOBE PALMS: USE ILLUSTRATION #39. These tall, slender trees are topped with 5-8 (d4 + 4) globe-like fruits of coconut size. These globes are blue, violet, or lilac in color. Walking under one ofthese palms makes it 20% likely that ‘one of these globes will fall, and if the tree is brushed it is 90% probable that one will fall. If the palm is roughly contacted, 2-5 of the fruit globes will tumble down. These globes are membranous and taut. They have a bursting radius of 5’, and thereis a 25% chance perpersonnearthe palm that they will be within this radius and splashed with the liquid contents of the globe. The fluid inside is most nauseating; any creature splashed will spend the next 3 rounds vomiting, and will be ill and at only 50% of normal strength for 6 full turns thereafter. There is no saving throw. If the affected character is washed with wine, the smell will go away, but otherwise, an odor will continue for 12 turns, and this will attract all monsters within 50’ of the affected creature! The palm is AC 8, and it takes 31-40 hit points to cut through its trunk.
6. UMBER HULK: AC 2, MV 6” (1"-6"), HD 8, hp 49, #AT 3, D 3-12/ 3-12/2-10; gaze causes confusion for 3-12 rounds unless save versus magic is made. This creature lurks near the drop tube for prey. Amidst the debris of its nest are: a mud-encrusted blaster rifle with 3 charges and an anti-grav belt with but 4 round of power remaining in its disc (if the wearer goes up ‘over 30’, or if itis used a second short period, it will cease functioning, and the wearer will fall).
. 6 BABOONOIDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #40.AC 6,MV6"012" (tree movement speed), HD 4, hp 30, 25, 23, 22, 16, 13, #AT 1, D 2-5; low to near average intelligence, slightly smaller than man- size. These creatures are omnivorous, but they do not hunt large creatures. They will hide from the party, butitis 75% likely that they will be noticed if the party is being cautious as it moves along. If molested, the baboonoids will hurl globe palm fruit missiles at attackers. The bull who leads the tribe also has 2 sleep gas grenades which he will hurl if hard pressed. These creatures have a limited vocabulary lan- guage, and it is 20% possible to parley with them, and if the party will kill the shambling mounds (414., below), the baboonoids will send two of their number to serve as scouts for the party as long as it remains on the level. Of course, some means of communication must be established, and the baboonoids will desire all grenades which are found, as they understand the use of such missiles from their experi- ence with palm globes.
~
20 SCINTILLATING PHOSPHORESCENT FISH: This pool is inhabited by darting 1’ long creatures which appear as sparkling lights when viewed from a distance. These fish have poison spines, and any creature touching one must save versus poison at -3 or die instantly. The scales of each fish number between 55 - 100, each being of gem-like material worth 5 gp. per scale.
9. BROWN (BLACK) PUDDING: AC 6, MV 6”, HD 10, hp 54, #AT 4, D 3-24; cutting or lightning make more of these monsters, cold and electrical attacks do not harm it; blasters, fire, and lasers will do full damage. This monster hides inthe swamp, where it appears to be nothing more than a muddy hillock. If approached within 10’ it has a 50% chance ofattacking by surprise or complete surprise (dé, 1 or 2). Ithas no treasure at ll.
14
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
40. BRILLIANT FISH: These fish are about the same size as those described in 8., above, but they sparkle and flash only when there is bright light, and they are more variegated in color. Each ofthe 32 fish in the pool has developed into avoracious, Piranha-like predator, attacking as a 5 HD monster and causing 1-3 hit points of damage per bite. The creatures are AC 5 and take only 2 hit points each. They have no treasure.
|. 2 SHAMBLING MOUNDS: AC 0, MV 6”, HD 10, 8, hp 62, 47, #AT2, D 2-16/2-16; two simultaneous attacks which succeed against the same opponent equal entanglement and suffocation in 2-8 melee rounds; fire does no harm, coldand blasters cause half or no damage, weapons score only half normal damage, but defoliants do double damage. These vegetable creatures lurk amongst the thick growths near the path to catch the unwary, surprising on a 4 in 6. They will emerge when prey is within 10’ of them, closing to striking distance in one round. If these monsters are slain, a careful inspection of the area will reveal a narrow path leading to 11a.
44a. Aheapofrottingvegetation, about 1’ downin which will be found 2 fully charged power discs, Another foot down will be discovered a human skeleton with a jeweled ring (5,200 gp. value). Another foot further and the digger will uncover a nest of 5-20 rot grubs: AC 9, MV 4",4 hp. each, burrow into flesh and eat heart of victim in 1-3 turns unless flame is applied to each entry point immediately (flame causes 1-6 hit points of damage per application) or a cure disease treatment is used.
MOSSY PATCH: This is actually green slime — touch causes exposed flesh to become green slime in 1-4 rounds. Dissolves wood, leather, and metal. Killed by cold, fire, orcure disease treatment.
43. SQUEALER: USE ILLUSTRATION #44. AC 6, MV 12”89", HD 12, hp 74, #AT 2, D 7-12 (bite*d6 + 6)/1-3(claw). This creature is a fierce and semi-intelligent predator about the size of a large gorilla. It is spotted yellow and green with a pig-like head about 2’ long — most of which is mouth filled with sharp tushes! Two arm-like appendages with 3 razor-sharp claws sprout from its hunched shoulders and rear quarters respec- tively while another grows from the center of its back. Its wo forelimbs are about a foot longer than its rear limbs, and have clawed, prehensile fingers. Its head is thrust forward. The monster is able to imitate the death shrieks and distress cries of various animals, and it uses such calls to attract prey, for it feeds upon hunting animals as readily as upon the hunted. Its favorite trick is to find a tree limb sufficient to support its 400 pound bulk, squeal, and then drop down with its forepart upon its victim, retaining a hold with its three rear limbs. The beast will then draw its prey to its maw with its 18/00 strength forelimbs while it bites and claws it to death. The squealer will surprise its prey 50% of the time.
Its lair is inside one of the burrows, one of unusual size originally designed fora harmless fuzzy herbivore. Amidst the bones therein is a young squealer (hai all stats above), an orange card, an incendiary grenade, and 4 gems of 100g.p. value each.
44. LIZARD AREA: There are many lizards and harmless lizardoids inhabiting the area in a 40‘ radius of the numerical key, for there are many flowering plants and their attendant insects here. These creatures live in the burrows, the shrubbery and the trees. They range from chameleon-size to 3’ and more. IF THE PARTY HAS NOT SLAIN ALL OF THE ROPERS ON LEVEL Ill, THERE ISA 10% CHANCE PER ROUND THATTHEY ARE IN THISAREA THAT ONE WILL SEND DOWN AROPE TO “FISH” FOR THE LIZARDS. — or the monkeyoids and catoids which prey upon them from time to time. If the party members are on a higher tier, it is 50% probable that one of them will be grappled by aroper’s strand.
45. STRANGLE VINE: As noted in the level lil key, number 2., ILLUSTRATION #214, these plants have mobile vines which
4
creep at 5’ per round and squeeze for 1-4 hp. damage, 10% chance of strangulation per round, with vines attacking as 4HD monsters. At the rootbaseofthese plants there are only8 of these vines, each having AC 6 and taking 18 hit points of damage to completely destroy. The whole vine isAC5 andwill take 200 hit points to destroy.
VAMPIRE THORN VINE: Unlike the mobile vines on level III (number 3.), ILLUSTRATION #22, these stem areas have 5-8 tendfils around the base, eachtendrilhavinga lashingrange of 7’. These tenafils are AC 4, but each takes 10 hit points to sever, and they attack as 5 HD monsters. The plant proper takes 170 hit points to killandis AC 3. Creatures struck by the thorn-covered tendrils lose 25% of total hit points that round and thereafter until tenaril is severed, so death will occurin 4 rounds unless the vine is chopped off.
WOLF-IN-SHEEP’S-CLOTHING: When this encountertakes place roll as if on the wandering monster table, look unhappy, and then showthe group ILLUSTRATION #42, “The Cute Little Bunnyoid on the Stump”. Statistics of the creature are: AC 7 (eyestaks)/5 (bodystump)/3 (root tentacles), Move 1”, HD 9, hit points are: 15 (each eyestalk)/50 (podystump)/20 (each root tentacle) 41-3 attacks plus maw, 41-4 hit points of damage plus 7-12 hit points from biting.
This predator comes from the same planet thatthe abundant rabbitoids seen all overthe level come from.|thas developed afieshy growth atop its body which exactly duplicates one of these harmless herbivores, and it wiggles and displays this bait to lure others of this kind — or creatures which prey upon them — to it. The wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing has likewise adapted its body form to resemble a tree stump, while its mobile and grasping tentacle roots appear to be nothing more than gnarled tree roots, and its eyestalks appearto be vines or plant growths. The rabbitoid lure will seem to look at approaching creatures, and then crouch and “freeze” in order to pass unnoticed. When preycomesto within 8’-10' of the creature, the root tentacles will strike to grab, crush, and draw prey to the maw. (USE ILLUSTRATION #43) It requires 4 round to be dragged to this toothy orifice, and there is a5% chance per point of strength above 12 that the character grabbed can break free of one roottentacle. Those with 18/% strength have a chance to actually snap the member as well. 1% for every percent of exceptional strength, provided that they first free themself from the grasp of the tentacle. Each monster has 7 root tentacles and 2-3 eyestalks.
48. FROGHEMOTH: AC 2 (tentacles)/4 (body)/6 (tongue), Move: 2"//8" (4" in swamp), HD 16, hit points 24 (pertentacle)/105 (body)/14 (tongue), 1 or 4 attacks, damage per attack is 5- 50 or 5-8. Fire does not harm the froghemoth, but it has a 20% chance of driving the thing back for 4 round (this includes laser shots). Needlers and gas do it no harm. Coldslowsitto half speed and aitack rate for 1 round. Lightning does 4 hit point per die of damage. Blasters cause normal damage, as do regular weapons such as swords, spears, etc. The creature is non-intelligent and larger than manrsized. USE ILLUSTRA- TION #33 if encountered on the bridge.
16.
47.
419.
Whether this is a mutated thing or the adult form of some specimen loosed from captivity, it is unquestionably the most fearsome of all the terrible life forms on the level. The froghemoth's 18 long, 10’ wide body is yellow-orange onthe belly, shading to a medium green on its back and thick, bowed rearlegs. From its shoulderareasproutfourtentacles, two from each shoulder, which are green on top and yellowish underneath. The creature's nostrils are stalk-like, and its three eyes are housed on a retractable protruding appendage which is withdrawn when danger threatens the optics. The froghemoth will often submerge its body several feet beneath the water, trail its tentacles ashore, and watch with its eye appendage at water level — this, along with the nostril stalks, appears to be a plant growth of some sort.
The frog-thing is also able to capture prey with its long, barbedtongue. This member can be flicked out toa distance of 10’. Unless the creature caught by the tongue is able to hold fast to something quickly — such as a tree, rope, etc. — it will be drawn that very round to the froghemoth's gapin: jaws andtornto shreds. It will swallow prey whole ona“tohit" rollof19 or 20. (Ifa characteris grabbed, the chance to hold onto some object, if any exists to grab, is the roll of a dé, discounting 4 or 2 as surprised and unable to hold on to anything, compared to the roll of a d8 for the monster, if the monster's roll is higher, the character is drawn into its mouth. The tongue has an 18/50 strength, so any creaturewithlesser strength will eventually be pulled into the maw of the froghemoth, unless the tongue is severed. Any prey resisting the tongue will cause the creature to either grasp it with a tentacle or draw its head to the morsel and eat it that way (60% chance for each). If prey is escaping, the creature will pursue for 2-5 rounds out of the water — but only in the swampy area to the southeast of the lake.
Any searcher will find 1. gem per turn spent searching the bottom of the lake bed. An unassisted diver may remain under water one round. Base value is 100 gp. per gem. (An insane technician spread these here after finding crates of them taken from some rich world somewhere. Of course, many are now totally lost under muck, and others are else- where, but not less than 54 normorethan 100 can be found in the lake.) At the point marked with an “X" the monster has built a nest of tree trunks and debris. Therein can be found bits of skulls and bones, a twisted laser rifle, a poison gas grenade, an atmosphere analyzer (30% chance of being functional), a plastic model of the level, and a metal chest filled with small gold bars (100 bars, each weighing 12 g.p.) If the chest is carefully examined it will be noted that it has a small compartment in which is a dial. The chest and its contents can be made absolutely weightless for up to one hour per charge of a power disc. Chest capacity is 3 cubic feet.
100 GASBATS: USE ILLUSTRATION #45. AC 8, MV1"/9", HD 1%, alll other characteristics described specially. These weird plant- animals vaguely resemble bats with the bloat. They are
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
nocturnal, using neutral buoyancy to paddle through the night air with green-black, vanes, feeding on small flying creatures such as insects. Every so often the gasbat emits a cloud of vapors from a sack near its terminus, and these vapors cause other small creatures to move slowly and erratically. The creature then circles and devours the prey thusly made helpless. if any light is brought into the place, these creatures will react by flying crazily at it, emitting their vapor clouds in a suicidal manner, forthese fumes are highly explosive, and if any flame is nearby, the vapors and the gasbat will explode causing from 1-6 hit points of damage to anyone within a 5’ radius (and totally destroying the gasbat, of course). Their droppings litter the floor, and many strange fungi grow in clumps throughout the whole area. Consuming the rose and cerise branched growths at X will give the individual the equivalent of haste for 2 rounds. There are 6 of these mushrooms. Baboonoids love these growths. The gasbats rest, floating near the top of the forest, and only light will disturb them
ROBOBAR: Although this no longer functions, there is a 1 gallon container filled with alcohol which can be located after a thorough search, A small panel under a lid ona back counter has several dials and switches. Regardless of which are operated, there will be a grinding noise anda trembling inthe area. After several rounds have passed these effects will cease. Thereafter a section of the outer hull will slide aside to reveal a glassy surface, black and flecked with points of colored light. Has the party somehow been responsible fora reactivation of the vessel? did ittake off? aretheyin deep space? No, they have activated a mechanism which provided a “view” of the stars even when the spaceship was in an uninteresting section of space, by running taped scenes of past stellar spectacles. The whole thing can give Players a few bad moments, however. USE ILLUSTRATION #44,
20. CREW QUARTERS: This area was for on-duty crew to take breaks, eat, nap, or whatever. There are several skeletons, a brown color card, and a paralyzer pistol with 3 charges.
CREW ROOM: This chamber was used to store various tools, implements, and items used by the crewmen who kept the gardens and exhibits. Amidst the litter of useless items will be found 100’ of nearly unbreakable/inseverable rope which is no more bulky than 100’ of normal rope, a pair of 10’ long Plasteel poles, a portable spotlight which operates ¢ full turn per charge in its power disc (1 charge left), anda 5 gallon back tank with hand pump spray nozzle for spraying weed killer (defoliant). There are 20 quart cans of powder, and if these are mixed with water, the solution becomes a defoliant which causes 2-8 hit points of damage to alarge plant — or wipes out a 2’ x 2’ area of ground cover vegetation. The powder will cause 3d6 damage to any who ingest it. The sprayer ejects but 4 pint per action, any other method of defoliant use requires 1 quart of liquid to achieve the same effect. Thus, the sprayer can be used 40 times before becoming empty. The nozzle is 3’ long and sprays a distance of 3’. There is a 10% chance that each container of defoliant is no longer potent.
zt
22. TRAPPERS: As usual, these creatures pose as the stony/ metallic flags/floor. AC 3, MV 3”, HD 12, hp 69, 61, crushes (4+ AC of victims in hp. of damage per round) and smothers in 6 melee rounds; victims unable to use weapons: fire and cold do only 50% or no damage to trappers, blasters do full damage. Either of these monsters will await attack until several characters are upon it.The trapperin the garden area has no treasure, but if itis killed the entrance to the ‘tween yy ANN decks will be discovered. The one in the sloping passageway Yh, “ny to level Vi has a laser, jet black card, 3fullpowerdiscs,and2 J BRT, WW pieces of jewelty (1,000 - 6,000 gp. value each) hidden i beneath it.
A RAW
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY TO LEVEL V: SERVICE DECK 6, OR GARDEN 'TWEEN DECKS
USE ILLUSTRATION #47. This service area was primarily for the water circulation machinery for the garden deck, purification of this water, spraying, and so forth.
SPLOTCH MARKED AREAS are covered with various colors of perfectly harmless mold — yellowish, greenish, pinkish, and bluish growths in mixed patches.
SOLID AREAS are continuations of the area above. They cannot be entered. Walls are plasteel
EASTERN AREA FROM NORTH TO SOUTH at the edge of the lake's bulkhead there is an area that is covered with condensation. The floor in this region is covered with small puddles here and there Anyone running here has a 4 in 6 chance of slipping and falling with the following results:
4-2: stunned for 2-5 rounds
3-4; knocked unconscious for 4-2 turns (head struck metal projection or deck)
5-6: knocked unconscious for 1-3 turns and suffers 41-4 hit points of damage
T. Entrywaytodeck above. These hatches require a brown color card to operate from this side.
SHALLOW POOL: A stream of water from a nearby pipe and dripping water from overhead form a vely shallow pool of water which drains slowly eastwards to the drop terminus tube there. In the westem third of the pool dwells avery large slithering tracker: AC 5, MV 12", HD 5 (treat as a 9 HD monster), hp 40; transparent ‘tracker is impossible to see in the water. This 3%’ long creature will strike like a snake at all who enter the pool, hopingto bring down as much prey as possible, for otherwise it must hunt below. The secretions from this particular creature cause all saving throws to be made at 2.
2. YELLOW MOLD: Growing overhead, each person 5%’ tall or taller has a 10% chance of roughly contacting it (unless appropriate precautions are taken) and causing spore cloud release. Spore cloud from contact wil fila 1” radius sphere, and all within must save versus poison or be choked to death by yellow mold filling their lungs with its growth. (Cure disease will negate these effects.)
3. DAMP FLOOR (GRAY OO2ZE): AC 8, MV 1”, HD3 +3, hp 24, 23, 20, 19, 17, 14, #AT 1, D 2-46; spells, cold, and heat (including lasers) do not effect these monsters, but normal weapon attacks, as well as neediers, paralyzers, and blasters, do. Three (even numbers of hit points) are in the western area, three are to the east.
4. WHEELY SLED: (See level Il key and ILLUSTRATION #48 for details.) This vehicle will malfunction as follows: once used for a round, the vehicle will begin to accelerate and its steering mechanism will lock, so no turning is possible. The vehicle will reach whatever rate of speed possible before smashing into something solid. Of course, players can elect to have their characters bail out
5. REPAIR ROBOT FACILITY: Inside are two worker robots which do not function. If they are carefully examined, it will be discovered that an atmosphere analyzer is bolted to the case of the second, and it can be removed with relative ease.
43. RADIATION AREA: See key to level |, 13.
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
————
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e
KEY TO LEVEL VI: THEATER, ATHLETIC, AND ACTIVITY DECK
‘WANDERING MONSTERS
Encounter occurs 4 in 20, check each turn.
4. 7-12 gasbats (ILLUSTRATION #45)
2. umber hulk
3. police robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
4. worker robot (ILLUSTRATION #6)
CARGO HOLDS: Various foodstuffs, stasis cages, and materials such as those previously mentioned are stored. Several encounters occur in these areas according to their numerical designations.
AUDITORIUM: This large place was for general meetings. Although it has some rubbish and skeletal remains, it is in generally goodrepair, and all of its seats are in place and intact. A somewhat tattered curtain screens the south end ofthe place. Various small creatures will be heard scuttling away when the party enters.
THEATER: This area was for performance of live plays as well as other forms of live entertainment. There are bones and litter here too, and many small noises to indicate that “critters” live here.
TRAINING: This room is a special encounter (see room 2.).
SWIMMING POOL: In addition to providing recreation, competi- tions were held here — swimming, diving, water polo, water ballet. There is a diving platform at the north (deep) end of the pool.
Pool depths are 4’ atthe south and 30’ atthenorthend. The water appears relatively clean, but itis not clear as the filtration does not function properly. The seats to the east are littered, and small things dwell there. The dressing rooms to the north are also full oflitter and small things. PATHS: These rooms were for special needs —
A- Sauna
B - Steamroom
C - Whirlpool/mineral GYMNASIUM: This typical gym servedfor athletic competitions as well as other athletic activities such as tumbling and jumping. Seats were for speciators during special events. Equipment and mats are piled here and there, and many ratoids now inhabit a stack of mats along the north wall. ‘WORKOUT AREA: This room provided exercise equipment of mechanical nature, weights, etc. These machines and apparatus line the walls.
L: Locker room with rotting garments, lockers, skeletons, etc.
ST: Storage facility for maintenance. Nothing of value or interest, just cleaning devices and compounds, now alll inert. Some are equipment storage for the exercise areas — weights, dumbbells, etc.
NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
4. LURKER ABOVE: AC 6, MV 1"/9", HD 10, hp 62, #AT 4, D 1-6; smothers prey in 2-5rounds unless slain; surprises on 1-4 (6), The lurker preys on the small creatures which roam the level, and it has grown quite large, for the robo snack bar still functions, even though all of the lighting systems for the level have been shorted out. Things coming to get a bite to eat there are usually the eaten instead. Beneath the monster are bones, husks, and other remains, but there is no treasure, for it has been taken by 9., below.
2. PHYSICAL TRAINING ANDROIDS: There are 3 malfunctioning androids here: AC 3, MV 15", HD 7, hp 35 each.Notethatthey use monster tables for attack except as noted. As soon as the party enters, the three will approach and speak, telling the parly to prepare for training. Even if no translation spell or device is employed, the trio will select opponents and commence “training” exercises:
Android 4: USE ILLUSTRATION #46. This is the boxing and wrestling trainer, with an 18/76 strength and 18 dexterity. Itno longer pulls punches nor looses deadly holds. It will throw combination punches (striking as a 7 HD monster, +20n “to hit” dice) first in each melee round, unless the opponent is hasted. Damage is 5-12 (d8 + 4) hit points. If its opponent moves close, it will grapple and begin wrestling.
Ifit is determined that the android manages to grapple, the following table is used to find the hold. Note that only the android, because of his programming, may use this table. Opponents must use the table found in the DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. Furthermore, all damage that the android does counts towards death andnot unconsciousness. As the android cannot go unconscious, any character grappling with him will do only % the stated damage.
%Roll Result Damage Hold or less
broken 1-25 No hold
26-45 Forearm smash 1-4 points Waist clinch
46-60 Elbow smash 2-5 points Waist clinch
61-70 Strangle hold Dead in 3rounds Any hold
71-75 Arm dislocated 1-4 points, 2 Bear hug
weeks to heal 76-80 Leg broken 1-8 points, 2 Hand lock months to heal 81-85 Eardrums ruptured Deaf Arm lock 86-90 Eye gouged out 1-6 points, no Any hold
depth perception, +2 on all attacks 41-3 points, charisma Any hold drops to 3 Dead
91-95 Nose bitten off Over 95 Neck broken
For the purpose of determining whether a character may break a hold, a strangle hold is the only grip the android will maintain for more than one round. it may be broken in the standard manner.
Android #2: USE ILLUSTRATION #47. This is the fencing instructor. It is armed with a faulty epee which delivers electrical damage of 2-5 hit points whenevera hit is scored — or even on a miss if the opponent has metallic armor! The epee will so malfunction for 6 rounds only. The android does 5-11 (dé + 3) hit points of other damage when hitting. It gets 3 attacks per round (beginning, middle, end) or 2 attacks and a middle parry which reduces the opponent's die roliby -4 if the opponent is sword armed. Its mask and padding allow it to sustain an additional 15 hit points ofdamage, i.e. 50 rather than the standard 35. It attacks as a 13th level fighter when using its sword. If disarmed, it attacks as a normal android.
Android #3: USE ILLUSTRATION #48. This is the karate master. If its opponent is able to communicate with it, and suggests that its discipline is inferior to boxing, it will go absolutely berserk and attack android #1. Otherwise, it will attack — twice per round, doing 7-16 (3d4 + 4) hit points of damage when hitting with hit probability based on that of a 9 HD monster, +2 on die rolls. The karate master will stun its opponentfor2-5 melee rounds on any modified die rollof20 (that is results of 18-20 on d20). It will ignore a stunned opponent and attack another character, but it will first disarm the stunned person, tossing the weapons into the ST area. Note: If the karate master and the boxing trainer fight, they will destroy each other.
The storage room is a mess of bones and junk. In this litter will be found a personal diary with an account of the coloniza- tion expedition and fatal plague (this is written in an unknown language, of course, but it can be magically read with comprehend languages). There are also some worthless paper scraps, a smashed worker robot, an anti-grav belt with 6 charges on its power disc, and 4 pieces ofjewelry (400 g.p., 900 g.p., 1,500 g.p., and 3,000 g.p.).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
3.
EYE OF THE DEEP: AC 5, MV //6", HD 10, hp 39, #AT 3, D 2-8/2-8 (pincers)/1-6 (bite); 3” long, 2” base diameter light flash from central eye stuns those failing to save vs. poison for 2-8 rounds; hold monster and hold person spells from smaller pair of eyestalks separately, or illusion spell together. The creature is vety intelligent and is only man-sized due to factors detailed below.
During the plague madness, a whole laboratory aquarium tank was ordered dumped into the swimming pool by an insane technician, and of course the worker robots obeyed. This carefully watched tank contained several dozen tiny monsters taken from some strange world, and one managed to survive the transition to (nearly) freshwater — theeye ofthe deep. Subsequent dumpings added food creatures to the pool, so the monster could feed and grow. Although the wateris too shallow and not offheproperchemical balance, the eye’ manages to get along, although it is small and stunted despite its decades of age. It preys uponthe smaller inhabitants of the pool (blind crayfish, fish, turtles, snails, etc.) and anything coming down to its waters to drink. The monster dwells in the deeper northern half ofthe pool, and when the party approaches, it will cast an illusion that itis a jumble of bones lying upon the bottom.
Viewers will see several human skeletons in the swimming pool, one with a glinting metal tube which contains blue- prints of the outer hull of the whole starship, with an explana- toty note as to its purpose in an unknown tongue. There are 27 10 g.p. base value gems, 341 p.p., anda gem encrusted necklace (10,000 gp.) visible on the floor of the pool. The eye of the deep will watch and wait. At the best time, it will flash a light beam with its central eye in order to dazzle the bulk of the party, while it attacks a smaller portion by charm and weaponry.
2 SHEDU: AC 4, MV 12/24”, HD 9 +9, hp 52, 48, #AT 2,D1-6/1-6; 25% magic resistant; exceptionally intelligent, larger than man-sized. Psionic strength: 100, 80. Abilities:
shedu #4
body equilibrium cell adjustment
shedu #2
cell adjustment clairaudience
detection of good/evil empathy detection of magic ESP
invisibility levitation levitation mind over body mind over body object reading molecular agitation precognition sensitivity to psi. aura alteration suspend animation mind bar
body control telekinesis energy control telepathic projection dimension door
mind bar
shape alteration
All powers are performed at 9th level of mastery.
As with most of the other creatures aboard, these were freed from stasis, but in this case due to a malfunctioning worker robot, The ship's malfunctioning hyper-dimensional force fields prevent their escape by etherial-astral means, and they fear to travel around the ship, for they know it has very dangerous creatures. The hold they are in extends underthe tiers of seats (dotted line shows this extension) in the swim- ming pool area, and the 2 shedu dwell in this hidden area, using the small north door for occasional forays. If the party is friendly and promises to show them how to get out of the ship immediately, the shedu will tell them where there are 6 power discs and a red card, and warn them that there is a mind flayer loose in the northwest (“in the large haltwith- many-seats area”). If the party is non-friendly (such as sending a nonlawful good person to converse with them), the shedu,will tend to ignore the pany. If they are attacked,
19
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINICARNATED
a
™~
the shedu will use their psionic powers (although they hateto: do so in this place) to counter — energy control, telepathic Projection, telekinesis, and molecular agitation being the most likely. Once attacked, the shedu willnever befriend any member of the patty. They will flee if the encounter is likely to bring them to certain destruction, but there is only a 1% chance per searcher that their treasure will be found during each round of such searching by the party.
. 4 DOPPLEGANGERS: AC 5, MV 9”, HD 4, hp 30, 27, 24, 20, #AT4,
D 1-42; surprise on 1-4; very intelligent; manr-sized. ESP /imitate with 90% accuracy to mimic and gain free melee rounds if unable to kill and take the person's place; dopplegangers save as if they were 40th level fighters.
These four creatures left their fellows above for greener Pastures and eventually ended up residing in the BATHS area. Whenever any creature steps into the front part of this complex, robo mechanisms cause the various baths to begin functioning, so the party will enter room A, the sauna, when it is filled with rolling steam. The dopplegangers will wait here, or in the regular steam bathroom (B), and attack 4 members of the party by surprise — roll dé for the number of free strikes which each doppleganger is entitled to. Determine if itknocksits opponent unconscious by usingthe Ppummeling table (automatic chance to hit during free rounds). Those knocked out will be killed on the following round (drowning in the whirlpool bath area is favored), and the doppleganger will then take the person's place in the patty, immediately working to slay the others. If any are spotted, the other dopplegangers will still use their imitative Powers to confound the party. Hidden under a rotting heap of clothing in the lockerroom are 12 50 g.p. gems, a healing spray cannister with 4 charges (2-24h.p. healingpercharge), Q paralyzer pistol with 1 charge in its power disc, and aring worth 1,200 g.p. There is an obvious suit of poweredarmor, but it is nonfunctioning. A small pouch clipped to the back of the armor contains an incendiary grenade and a clip fora needler.
PHYSICAL FITNESS ANDROID: USE ILLUSTRATION #49. Another malfunctioning android awaits the party herein. As soon as the party enters it will spring into action. There are a number of plates for bar bells, dumbbells, and other heavy objects nearby, and the android will hurl these at the party. These missiles strike as 7 HD monsters, causing 2-20 hit points of damage when they hit. A score of 20 "to hit" means the victim has a broken limb (determinerandomly). All the while the android is throwing these objects it will be shouting: “WORK UP A SWEATTHERE!”, “CATCH! Butterfingers”, “LET'S HAVE SOME HUSTLE!", and “You'll never make the team THAT way!”. If the android is disabled and taken apart, a workable language translator will be gained.
TRAPPED ANDROID and 40 GASBATS:Androidstandardspecs. Gasbats: AC 8, MV 1"/9”, HD ‘%. These flatulent plant-animal suicide bombs conform to the statistics given for 49., level III. They enter and emerge from the hold viaa small opening high in the east wall (a plate blasted away and never noticed).
The android is pinnedundera very heavy crate which shifted and trapped it. It has been thus for many, many years, and it has shut itself down and only comes to alert when noise occurs nearby. The worker robots ignore it. It was a body- guard for an important political official aboard, and when its master went insane, it followed him in his wandering. Eventually, the human died, here in a narrow aisle of the cargo hold, and as the android was carrying the body out the accident occured. The skeleton of the official is nearby. Amidst its tattered rags is a belt with a gray card, a power disc, and 20 base 100 g.p. gems. When the partycomes near the android will call weakly for help, slowly moving an empty laser pistol back and forth as its circuits warm up from its self induced shut down. Ifthe party does not attack it, the android
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
can be freed and enlisted as a bodyguard for its rescuers. Naturally, any damage it sustains can never be regained as the repair section for androids is not part ofthis module of the ship.
5 SHRIEKERS: The area has been filled with rubbish and materials for these creatures to feed on by the mind flayer (9., below). These fungi, and some others growing in the humus, attract other creatures as well, so waiting above are 4 piercers of huge size: AC 3, MV 1", (but drop quickly), HD 4, hp 26, 21, 19, 19, *AT 1, 4-24, The noise of the shriekers alerts the piercers, and 9. as well.
2
. MIND FLAYER: USE ILLUSTRATION on cover of artbook to depict this monster. AC 5, MV 12", HD 8 +4, hp 43, 4 tentacle attacks for 2 hit points of damage each; mind blast; 90% magic resistance; genius, man-sized. Psionic strength is 257. Psionic abilities are:
body equilibrium domination ESP levitation astral projection probability travel Abilities are at 7th level of mastery.
It is likely that this creature was taken when it was using probability travel. It is kept on the ship by the force fields. During the course of its living upon the vessel the mind flayer has accumulated:
+ an orange card
- a blaster pistol with 1 charge left
- a portable spotlight
- 1 poison and 2 sleep gas grenades
- 37 base 10 g.p. gems
- 5 pieces of jewelty (1,000 - 6,000 gp. value)
- 109 p.p. All but the spotlight are on the creature's body. There is a 10% chance that it will be away, checking up onthe shedu, which it hates and fears. If the mind flayer is away, there is a 20% chance per turn that it will come back, As soon as it hears the shriekers — or sees intruders — the monster will attack. As it fears to use its psionic strength, it will use the blaster and grenades, hoping they will suffice. If given warning, the mind flayer will set up the spotlight, with a trip cord by the north door, so that when the party is in the PROPS section they will trigger the light (about the position of the second P in PROPS). The mind flayer will then cut loose with its blaster, hurl grenades, and head east, then through the south door, west, and back through the auditorium service doors (staying behind the curtain), if all opponents are not killed by the first weapons used. Sneaking up from behind, the mind flayer will give the party a mind blast as a last resort.
4
°
6 WORKER ROBOTS: USE ILLUSTRATION #56. This cargo hold is nearly empty, for it contained many stasis cages, and these worker robots have been periodically ordered to unload such by the computer. They are shutdown now, although the computer can reactivate them at any time. If the party enters the hold there is a 10% chance per round that this very thing will happen! Ifit does, the robots will grind to action, tossing the characters out through the open cargo hatch. If they resist, or attempt to re-enter, the workers will summon 5-8 other workers to aid them, as well as 2-5 police robots. These reinforcements will arrive in 2-5 rounds. When the characters are all out of the hold, the robots will toss out a stasis cage containing a bulette, and shut the hatch. USE ILLUSTRATION #54. The bulette will be out of stasis the next round.
VARIOUS EXPLANATORY MATERIAL IS FOUND HEREAFTER.
This completes the EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS. Wehope you and your players have found it amusing and challenging!
20
TECHNOLOGICAL ITEMS
In this section are found tables for the DM to use for determining the successful use of any technological item found on the ship. Following these tables are descriptions of the weapons and major items on board. Information necessary forthe DM is given and some descriptions are included to be given to the players. These descriptions are couched in terms that reflect the characters ignorance of advanced technology. The DM is encouraged to show the appropriate picture andto describe the steps taken whenever players attempt to leam the use of anitem.
DETERMINATION OF PROPER USE
Whenever a new item is discovered, the character may operateit or merely stowitforlaterinspection. Any attempt to use such items must use a flow chartto simulate ignorance. Four charts are given below. The first two are for simple and complex non-lethal items. The second pair are for simple and complex lethal items. Placea marker at the start position, and have the character roll a d10, ‘once for each round spent working with the item. He or she may elect to stop before any roll, beginning at the start again the next day, but once the die is rolled RESULTS ARE FINAL FOR THAT STEP. Modifiers to the roll are:
- intelligence less than 10 +4 - intelligence over 15 4 - like or similar object observed
in operational procedures A - previous explanation of operation of
item by one familiar with it 2 - Operated a similar item previously 2
All modifications are cumulative. Negative die rolls are not possible.
Several persons areallowedtotryto discover the properties of any item as long as it remains functional. Once one character learns how to use an item, he orshe may instruct othersinits use — 41 turn for simple items, 6 turns for complex ones.
Chart I: Simple Non-Lethal Items
r be Ar an 4 ‘| [es re 15 16 fo fur °o
Charge/
use wasted
ITEMS USING THIS CHART: Power disc Woundhealing cannister Portable spotlight Language translator Atmosphere analyzer Anti-grav bett
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Chart Il: Complex Non-Lethal Items Chart Ill: Simple Lethal Items
ITEMS USING THIS CH RT: item
Fire extinguisher Blaster pistol destroyed Laser pistol
ITEMS USING THIS CH RT: jane ‘ast
Wheely sled leedler pi
Diving equipment Paralysis pistol
Diving jet pack Grenades
Chart IV: Complex Lethal Items
e456 >)
9-0
nr X& 7 4-2 ITEMS USING THIS CHART: 3 Moe s Power armor saci * 2 use wasted |<———
“Grenade explodes, pistol discharges (50% chance that it hits handler, 50% for any creature within range at random, if applicable), etc.
a
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
WEAPONS DATA
Blaster Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #52 Range: S=3”, M=6", L=9”
Area of Effect: 1’ beam
Power Disc Drain: 1/use
Rate of Fire: 2/round
Damage: 5-30 hit points
Save: Unatmored = % damage: armored = no damage (but save for armor required)
When found, this item will usually be folded. It weighs about 1% Ibs. and will unfold to about 1 foot. Itis composed ofa U-shaped section of metal rod with a black tivet on one end and an attached piece of thick glass mounted in a frame. This glass is about the size of a hand mirror. On one side of the frame are 2 raised discs, while on the other is a fine mesh, mounted on a rod. The two sides of the glass are dark on one side (the firing side) and clearon theother(the viewing side). In the hinge joining the handle and glass frame is a slot about the size of a coin.
The pistol is operated by tuming the top dial. On the viewing side of the screen, crosshairs and range figures (in an unreadable language) will appear. The second dial will magnify the scene slightly. Once a target is selected, the pistolis fred bypressingthe black button in the handle.
Saving throw is versus petrifaction. Armor which does not save is effectively destroyed, Each time armors hit by a blasterits saving throw is adjusted thereafter by -3 cumulative, or in the case of a shield, -2 and the shield is destroyed (or no minuses for the armor but a +2 shield is destroyed), i.e. the armor is being destroyed in the process of saving its wearer. Shields of less than +3 value are always destroyed from the first hit by a blaster,
Blaster Rifle: USE ILLUSTRATION #53. Range: S=5", M=10", L=15"
Area of Effect: 1’ beam or special Power Disc Drain: 2/use
Rate of Fire: 4/round
Damage: Disruption or special Save: All vs petrifaction see below
As with the blaster pistol, this itern will also be usually found in a folded-up state, about 1%’ long. When unfolded, it is about 3° long. It weighs nearly 5 Ibs. It appears to consist of jointed metal rods, a curved metal plate, a hardened leather band or collar and a pane of glass, framed and mounted on the end of arod. There is a black rivet at the end of the U-shaped rod. The metal plate has 3 raised, colored bars — black, white, and red — anda coin-shaped slot above them. There is a blue rivet on the side above the collar. The band is made of a hardened leather or hom-like material, fashioned into overlappingplates. No stitching may be seen. The glass is thick and dark on both sides. On one side of the frame is a metal mesh mounted on a small rod.
22
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARIIATED
The rifle must first be unfolded and then the left arm is thrust through the collar. This band will automatically constrict to a firm grip so that the gun need not be held constantly. It will only release when the blue button is pushed. The rifle activates when one of the colored settings is pushed. The black button on the U- shaped handle is pushed to fire. The shot originates from the screen.
The effects of the settings are:
BLACK — Disruption beam setting usable to maximum range. This beam will vaporize anything short of hull metal when it hits. The beam affects up to six cubic feet of material. When an individual creature is the target a save is applicable. Shields are automaticalty de- stroyed, armor and protection devices must also be saved for. If save is successful individual takes 5-30 hit points, and saving throws forarmorand/orprotection devices is at -5 against next blaster (pistol or rifle) attack. Target creatures are stunned for 1-4 rounds despite saving.
Heat beam setting effective out to medium range. A wave of heat sweeps out in a 4’ beam, and alll in its path must save. Metallic armorreduces saving throw by -7, shields by -2, but magical bonuses are added, ie. magic plate (+3) and shield (+3) would reduce the chance of saving by 9, but magical bonuses (+6 in this example) adjust that to only a -3. Creatures failing to save are melted, those saving take 5-20 hit points of damage and lose 1-6 points of strength for 4-6 turns due to heat exhaustion.
Flame plane setting effective only to short range. A horizontal plane cuts a triangular area out to 5” (weapon's short range), with a 2%4” base. Inflam- mable materials in this plane start buming, and creatures take either 4-24 hit points of damage or 2-42 hit points if they successfully save. This setting does not lower armor values against successive saving throws, as it does not harm armor.
WHITE —
RED —
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Laser Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #54.
Range: S=4", M=8", L=12”
Area of Effect: Thin beam
Power Disc Drain: %/use
Rate of Fire: 2/round
Damage: 2-16 hit points + AC of target creature Save: S = -8, M = -4, L = normal; no damage
This appears as a heavy armbandwith 2 projections, both about 6" long. One projection ends in a black leather grip. The other ends in a smooth, cone-shaped redstone, much like a jewel, with a slightly silvery end. There is a coin-sized slot at the base of this projection. Inside the armband are a number of overlapping plates. The entire thing is encased in a white, shell-like material.
The pistol is operated by inserting the hand through the band and applying firm pressure to the grip. The plates in the band will gently close on the wrist to hold it in place, although the hand may be slipped out with care. The beamwill originate from the end of the second projection, the ruby rod.
Asaving throw must be made against petrifaction for each shot. Each hit which is not saved against has a 10% chance of damaging a member: 1 = head (dead!), 2-3/arm orfore-member (making it useless until healed), 4-8 = leg or rear member (also makingituseless until healed). A laserbeamwill cutthrough 1” of bulkhead or deck metal along a 1’ path each time it is aimed and fired at short range. Comparatively, it will cut through six inches ofsteelor 1’ of iron along a 1’ line. Negative atmor classes reduce damage. Dexterity is excluded for AC calculation.
Laser Rifle: USE ILLUSTRATION #55.
Range: S=6", M=12", L=24”
Area of Effect: Thin beam
Power Disc Drain: 4 /use
Rate of Fire: 2/turn
Damage: 2-20 hit points + AC of target creature Save: $ , M = -4, L = normal; no damage
In appearance this is quite similar to the laser pistol, although on a larger scale. The thing is made of the same shell-like material. Thetwo projections are the same, but longer, and the shotterone has a black rivet placed forward of the grip. One majordifference is that instead of a single armband there are now 2. Both bands are lined with overlapping metal plates. There is a glass clystal or gem on the section connecting the 2 armbands. The second armband extends to form a point on one side. A smooth rope comes out of the thing just ahead of this band and connects toa Mail coif and visor. This Coif is of a soft, lightweight metal. The visor has thick, smoky pieces of glass mounted in a frame.
The laser rifle is wom and operated in much the same way as the laser pistol (ie. the forearm is slipped in, the plates contract, and the grip squeezes to fire). However, the mesh hood and glasses must also be used foretfective fire. The glasses will projecta ghost- like image of what the laser rifle “sees” through its camera eye. The buttoninthe gripwilltum the camera on oroff. Ifthe laser rifle is used without the camera, all saves made by the target will be at +2. It is possible at all times to see normally, ignoring the ghost images.
23
Each shot must be savedvs. petrifaction. Failure results in a hit. Hits not saved against have a 10% chance of member damage as pera laser pistol (q.v.). Metal cutting rate isthe samelength as a pistol, but the thickness cut is double that of the pistol. Negative armor classes reduce damage. Dexterity is excluded from AC calculation.
Needler Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #56.
Range: $=1", M=2", L=3”
Area of Effect: 1” diameter or 5’ diameter pattern Power Disc Drain: Not applicable
Rate of Fire: 1 burst/round
Damage: 1-6 hit points/needie
Save: Special
This could perhaps be a potion bottle or a flask strapped to a number of tubes. The base of the bottle (actually the handle) has a silvery lid with a knob in the center. The bottle flask is bound in black leather and silver. From the top ofthis, a broad metal band encircles a number oftubes. Out one endstick 3largeprojecting tubes, while the other has but a single tube, with a small hole inits end. There is a fluted knob on the side with a line across its top. There are 2 markings above it — a small dot and big O.
The pistol operates by pointing the single tube at the target and squeezing the handle. After each burst the 3 tubes inthebackwill pump in air, creating a slight suction. Iftheknobinthe base ofthe handle is twisted and pulled, a compartment will open for the needier clip. Itwillseem to be a small drawer and clips will appear as small, lacquered wood boxes. A clip may not be opened except by smashing.
The butt-loading clip holds 10 cluster cartridges. Each cartridge contains 10 needle-like projectiles which burst after penetration or upon flattening. The selector switch on the left of the receiver housing can be set forn arrow or broad pattem — asmall dot ora big O. On nanow pattern, the target creature will take ftom 5-8 (da +4) needles. On broad pattem the various targets will each take 1- 2 needle hits, with a maximum of five possible creatures hit, tegardless of the number of missiles accounted for (asfew as 5 possible). The maximum damage received from each needle is dictated by the AC ofthe target creature, ie. 6 hit points ifAC is 6 or worse, 5 if AC 5, 4 if AC 4, 3 if AC 3, 2 if AC 2, 1 if AC 4, and NO DAMAGE if AC 0 or better”. Magical protections are considered for AC calculation, but dexterity is excluded. At medium range teduce the number of needies striking a single targetcreature by 2; at long range reduce the number by 4. On broad pattern
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
setting there is no range penalty, but it will only be effective to medium range. “Optionally, you may give the target creature a saving throw regardless of armor. Ifa score of 1 on d20 is rolled, an eye hit has occurred, and the creature takes 12 hit points and permanently loses the eye (unless a regenerating creature)
Ss y
— SJ
am
Paralysis Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #57. Range: S=2”, M=4”, L=6"
Area of Effect: 6” long cone, 3” base diameter Power Disc Drain: 4/use
Rate of Fire: 1/round
Damage: Total paralysis or slowed movement Save: Special
This looks like a glass bottle or retort with a pimpled or warty surface and a black handle on one side. Inside the bottle may be seen threads, wires, globes, and a rod. The broad end of the bottle has a rounded metal plate with several brass prongs sticking out of it. The narrow end is capped with a silver sheath and golden ball. The black handle has around panel. largerthan a coin, with a fivet in the center.
The pistol is fred by squeezing the handle, pointing the broad end of the pistol toward the target. When fired there will be a humming noise and many flashing lights and sparks will go off inside. A small number of sparks will shoot from the golden ball at the narrow end, but the ray from the other end will be invisible. If the small button in the handle is pushed, the raised disc will pop open, revealing a spotfora power disc.
Paralysis lasts 3 tums at shortrange, 2 at medium range and 4 at long range. A successful saving throw at short range indicates that paralysis will last only 2-12 rounds. At medium range a successful save means that the target creature is paralyzed for 1-4 rounds and slowed to half movement and attack for 1-4 rounds thereafter. At long range a successful save means the creature is slowed for 1-4 rounds. Note: Slowed creatures lose all dexterity bonuses. Slowed creatures struck by the paralysis ray are automatically paralyzed for 1 to 3 turns according to the range.
24
Grenades: USE ILLUSTRATION #58.
Range: 8’ maximum/strength point Area of Effect: 10’ radius sphere Rate of Fire: 1/round
Damage: By type of grenade Save: Special
These are about the size of a large apple or similar fruit, indented all around for grasping, They are smooth and featureless, except for2 rivets — a large and a small one. Around thelarger one are 3 markings in an unknown tongue.
The larger is a setting to determine time of explosion — 3, 4, or 5 second delay according to what setting the button is set to. The second button must be depressed, given a half turn, and depressed again. Thereafter, when the grenade is hurled, the arming pin springs out, and in 2-5 seconds the missile will explode.
Area hit is determined by rolling regular “to hit” dice. All hits and misses land and explode somewhere. Use “grenade-like missiles” rules to determine location of miss (AD&D DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE).
EXPLOSIVE — 5-10 hit points damage to all within blast tadius. Save equals half damage. All with- in the blast are stunned for 1-4 roundsand deafened for 1-4 turns. Creatures within a 20’ radius are stunned for 1 round and deafened for 1-4 rounds. If the grenade is enclosed in a container of normal material (not ship'shullmetal) oflessthan specially designed anti-explosive con- struction, the detonation will throw shrap- nel in a 20’ radius, and all within will take 0-9 additional hit points of shrapnel damage —used10,0meansno shrapnel hit.
All air breathing creatures within the 10’ blast radius must save versus poison or die. Those saving will be nauseated and unable to engage in combat for 1-6 rounds. The cloud of poisonous vapors persist for 6 rounds in a stagnantarea, but in ventilated areas it will be gone in 2 rounds, In windy situations it will last only one round. The grenade cannot be used effectively in very windy situations.
All air breathing creatures within the radius of effect must save versus poison or in- stantly fall: into a comatose slumber lasting 2-5 tums. Those saving must make a second save even though no longer within the area on the following round (his reflects persistent qualities of the gas.) Cloud persistence is the same asfor Poison gas.
All creatures in the blast radius take 2-12 hit points of damage, no saving throws allowed, and all materials within the area which are inflammable are set afire. Next round, and for 1-3 rounds thereafter, each creature originally within the blast area will sustain an additional 1-6 hit points of damage from residual chemi- cals burning. Each skin of water used will reduce damage by 4 hit point, and total immersion will negate residual bums,
GAS, POISON —
GAS, SLEEP —
INCENDIARY —
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
MISCELLANEOUS DEVICES DATA
Powered Armor: USE ILLUSTRATION #59.
Armor Class: 0
Move: 6” = 1” (clear hop in any direction possible)
Force Shield: 50 hit points damage before shutting down, restored
at’ point per round Hit Points of Armor: 50 Power: Equals 18/00 strength in grasping and lifting, anti-grav as per belt
Weaponry: Laser pistol built into right arm of armor above hand; fires when chin lever triggered — all specs same as normal laser pistol
Powered armor looks like a suit of unusual plate armor. The joints appear to be finely, it somewhat strangely, articulated and an oily, black, leather-like material may be seen at major joints. The ‘armor appears to have been worked to create the illusion of a heavily muscled man. The great helm is unusual in that it has no. ‘openings, only a broad glass plate in the front with a piece of glass above this. There are strange plates and tubing at various Points and large metal bosses seem to be placed randomly on the suit. On the back of the left hand is a rectangular metal box. From this comes a short projecting rod tipped with a cone- shaped red crystal or jewel. It would seem there must be a man inside, for the armor always stands erect although unmoving.
The armor is opened by pressing iwo separate buttons con- cealed at the rear of the helmet beneath its lip. Pressing both buttons at the same time will pop open a seal down the middle of the back of the armor. A person may then climb into the armor, feet first, double over and slip his or her head and arms into the suit. Then, by arching his orher back, the armor will resealitself. The release catches may be reached while wearing the suit, but it will take a round to operate.
Powered armor is completely sealed and will withstand vacuum or pressure equal to 1,000 feet of water. Air system provides ‘oxygen for 8 hours of continuous use, recharging at 4 hour per hour of non-use. No gasses oF viral contaminants can enter the suit
When the force shield is at 0, damage sustained is taken by the armor itself. When the armor reaches 0 it is non-functional in all systems. Damage accruing beyond that point goes to the Person inside.
The anti-grav system in the armor allows the wearer to become weightless and float upwards or downwards at 2” per round. The wearer can carty up to 500 additional pounds of weight when so doing. Anti-grav will function for 6 turns, 3 if carrying additional weight, of continuous operation. For each round of operation it must recharge 1 turn. When power is down to 1 turn of operation the suit will issue a low pinging sound, and a small orange panel will light up; pinging will recur every round thereafter, and the panel light will flash during the last round of operation before the power fails.
The armor will immediately fall, but a small reserve charge will prevent injury to the wearer, although the powered armoritselfwill sustain damage equal to 50% of its remaining hit points.
Powered armor has built-in atmosphere analysis equipment with a readout panel above the vision area; it also has built-in language translators. Hearing in the armor is 200% human normal, and infrared visual sensors allow vision to 12”. The suit is scteened so as to make it 90% unlikely to be seen infravisually. The wearer of the suit does not become fatigued as normal. Continuous operationforperiods ofas long as 8hoursis possible. Powered armor does not use power discs. It is only rechargeable at specialized terminals. None ofthese terminals exist on this part of the ship.
25
Anti-grav Belt:
Move: Float upwards or downwards at 3” /round Load Limit: 500 pounds
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge,‘turn
This item appears to bea strangely crafted girdle, hung with odd ornaments and three leathery straps. It has no apparent clasp to open the girdle, though the front bears a large, embossed disc.
The beit is opened by giving the disc a quarterturn clockwise and Pressing in upon the boss. In the back of the embossing is a circular indentation the size of a coin. A power disc may be fitted into this recess. The belt is activated by turning the boss counter- clockwise half a turn and pushing inwards.
Note that this device can be used to make an object up to 500 pounds weigh only as much as a 1 pound object, but the mass will still be that of a 500 pound object.
Underwater Swimming Gear: USE ILLUSTRATION #26. Armor Class: 7
Move: 6” - (12" for six rounds with gas jets)
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/ turn
This appears to be a bizarre set of armor. The armor consists of a Padded undersuit of an odd, black leather-like material. The Padded suit is reinforced with plate mailat the knees, elbows and shoulder. Over the padded armor is worn a very weighly girdle and loin protectors. Across the chest is worn an odd breastplate with a box attached to it, while the back half bears a strangely shaped pack. The helmet seems impractical, a bubble-shaped sphere mounted on a flexible neck piece made of the same material as the suit. The helmet is attached to the breast box by several cords. Lastly, there are a pair of slippers with elongated, ribbed toes, about two feet long.
This is a set of underwater diving gear, with a wetsuit and breathing apparatus, set inthe front chest plate, and propulsion device, housed in the backpack. The breathing apparatus is a rebreather attached to the helmet by way of the tubes. Itis turned on by pressing the right button on thefront of the box and shutoff by pushing the left button. The front of this housing may be detached revealing cradles for two power discs. The breathing apporatus will function for 9 turns and then a buzzing will sound to indicate that 3 turns of time remain before the pack must be recharged.
The propulsion device is operated by the lever triggerto the left of the buttons on the chest box. This consists of a gas jet that will Propel the wearer under water at a 12” movement rate for 6 rounds before becoming useless. If used on the surface, it will cause an uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after one round of hopping and then turned back on. It cannot be recharged.
The swim fins are independent from the rest of the suit. When in water they will reacttotheswimmer's motions andexpandinto 8” wide fins.
The suit may be used like a gas mask while the breathing ‘opparatus functions, making the wearer impervious to gas.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Gas Mask:
Armor Class: Treat as a leather helmet
Special Defense: makes wearer immune to the effects of gases which must be breathed
This appears to be some sort of ceremonial mask. It is made of a leather-like material and has several straps attached. A silvery metal plate covers the area of the eyes, but this does not seem to impair vision from the inside of the mask. There are no openings for mouth or nose though the mask has been shaped to accommodate a nose and chin. At the base of the mask a cylindrical metal tube is attached and metal cords run from this tube up into the metal-framed mouth and nose region.
The mask's eyepiece is a one-way mirror and permits sight out of the mask, but others can not see in. At night or in dark surroundings this mask will reduce the range of vision by 10’. The mirrored viewer will also act as gaze reflection, but this does not make the wearer impervious to gaze attacks.
Atmosphere Analyzer: USE ILLUSTRATION #60.
Range: Radiation = 6”, Gas = 4”, Mold/Spores = 2"
Power Disc Drain: ‘ charge/use
Agray slab of a material similar to horn, this is about the size of a necklace case. In one side are three windows, all rectangular in shape. Behind eachis a strip of colored paper. The papersareall white on one end and shade into another coloratthe other end. The window to the left is white shading to yellow, the middle window is white shading to purple, and thepaperbehindtheright window is white shading to green. Over each window is mounted a translucent jewel, the same color as the colored paper ofthat window. At the front of the slab is a series of small holes. On the back is a narrow panel set in a groove. Sliding it will reveal a slot about the size of a gold coin.
The caseis only ‘4’ wide, 2’ long, and about athumb’s width thick. The windows are rolling gauges indicating concentrations of impurities in the air by rolling forward to darker shades of color. The yellow gauge detects spore and pollen content, the purple gauge measures intensity of radiation, and the green gauge indicates the presence of gases. Purple, green, and/or yellow lights glow accordingly. Bulkheads which are non-radioactive will screen what is behind them as far as radiation count is concerned. Likewise, sealed areas will not affect the gas or spore registers.
Language Translator: USE ILLUSTRATION #64.
Range: 6”
Power Disc Drain: 4 charge/tum of use
This is a club- or hatchet-shaped device with a metal dish on one end where the blade should be. Across the back are 2 colored plates — red and blue. Above these is a fine metalnet,setin the handle. In the butt is a fine crack going all around the handle.
The red button is for receiving, there will be a 4 turn delay for first analysis of a foreign tongue; and the blue button is pushed for transmitting. A pull on the base opens the power disc compart- ment. The translation will analyze the closest/ loudest speaker in its range.
Portable Spotlight: USE ILLUSTRATION #62. Range: 120 yards
Area of Effect: 10’ diameter beam
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/turn of use
When closed, the spot forms a 1’ cube and weighs about 10 Ibs. It is open at one end and has arecessed grip in the top. Inside may be seen an X formed by jointed rods, a box with a wheel and 2 tivets on it, and a coil of smooth, oily appearing rope. The other end holds a round glass panel, raised slightly, setin the surface of the box.
26
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
When opened, the rods will telescope out to form a stand for the spot. The head section will extend up to 8’ high. Each leg has clamped to it a spike and a smooth leather patch (an adhesive patch) and ends in a side of the box. The black rope (10’ cable) connects the detachable control box to the spot. The wheel controls elevation /depression/rotation, one button is the on/off control, and the second button activates magnetic clamps. A slot in the side of the control box holds a power disc. It has a special polarizing lens. Turning it a quarter turn will change the light to infrared, allowing infravision to 120’
Repair Robot Remote Control Box:
Range: 18”
Function: Summons one worker robot and allows transmission of verbal orders
Size: 3“ x 5”
Power Disc Drain: % charge/turn
This appears to be a brown metal box about the size of a
tinderbox, with violet labels. When the hinged cover is liftedinside
a panel of white hom-like material will beseen. In the center ofthe
panel is set a metal mesh screen the size of a coin, while in the
upper right corner is set a small blue gem. At the base of this
screen a black square is set.
This device is used to summon one worker robot within range to. the immediate vicinity of the holder. The ship's computer moderates which robot will respond if more than one are within range or else the closest one will respond. By pressing the black square the device is activated and a worker will arrive within 1-4 tums if any are available. Once a worker robot has arrived it may be given verbal commands if someone depresses the black button and speaks into the metal grid in a language the robot can comprehend. The back panel may be removed and a cradle for a power disc may be found.
This device has its own store of power but for each turn of operation there is a 2% cumulative chance that the power pack will drain, causing the blue light to fash. In 1-1 0rounds the remote will go dead. Any power disc will reduce the chance of failure by 5% per charge in the disc, but eventually this will drain too.
Power Disc:
This is a blue colored glass or slate disc the size of a coin. One side is smooth and unmarked, the other side has a white, arced band, marked like o sundial with 5 lines. Ataut thread rests on oneofthe lines (or at eitherend, dependingon thecharge).Thesediscs are designed to be fitted into the various slots and holders of the weapons and equipment.
Power discs are energy storage units or batteries which wereused to power the various devices on the ship. A fully charged power disc holds 6 charges and the needle of the gauge will be all the way to the right, if not malfunctioning. Power discs found in ship stores will normally be fully charged, but the charges of those found scattered about the ship should be determined randomly by rolling a dé. Power discs may be inserted either side up when installed in a device. Different devices will have different rates of power use and this is noted under each devicesPowerDisc Drain. Itrequires 2 rounds to change the powerdisc in a device once itis discovered how to make the change.
Wound Healing Cannister: USE ILLUSTRATION #63.
Wound healing cannisters appear as smooth, featureless gourds. They are indented on one side to fashion a grip, flat on the bottom, and have a small neck curving out ofthe other end. This neck ends in a hole. On the back of the neck is a rivet. On the flat bottom is a sundial pattern with a hair marking a line on the pattern.
Pressing the button (the rivet on the neck of the gourd) allows a directional spray from the nozzle (the hole). This spray will heal 2- 24 points of damage and cure any disease, infection, or spore infestation on the skin. A full cannister contains 6 charges; the dial on the bottom shows the number of charges remaining. One spray uses one charge.
Fire Extinguisher: Range: 5’ maximum effect, 10’ = % damage
Rounds: 6 maximum
Damage/Attack: 1-4, 1-6, or 3-12
Area of Effect: cone 10’ long, 5’ wide at end.
This device has a base cylindrical shape with two handles on one side. Opposite the handles is a lever and a wide-mouthed spout adorns one end. On the other endis a padded crook likethatofa crutch,
To operate the fire extinguisher the lever on top must be forced back towards the shoulder rest and then pushed forward; once thisis accomplished the rearmost handle may besqueezedand aconeofCO,willspew outthe nozzle. TheCO,willinfict 1-4h.p.of damage to warm-blooded creatures, 1-6h.p.ofdamagetocold- blooded creatures, and 3-42 points of damage to plants. If the lever is not returned to the forward position the operator will hear a beeping noise and see an orange flashing light in the handle. In 2 rounds the extinguisher will explode causing 2d6 points of damage to all within a 10’ radius.
27
Hand Pump Spray Gun:
Range: 3’
Volume: 5 gallons (40 pints)
Use per spray: 1 pint
This apparatus appears to be two seamless barrels attached together and made of a bone-like material. Two woven straps of equal length are attached to these barrels and an oily-looking rope is fastened to the top of these barrels where they join. Upon. the end of the rope is a wandlike instrument with a handle orlever.
By squeezing the lever several times in a round a fine mist will spray from the tip of the nozzle. The backpack can hold most liquids, except strong acids, and can be refilled by screwing off the top of each barrel. This device was used to spray weed control, a plant defoliant. This defoliant may be found in 1 quart cans which when mixed with 5 gallons ofwaterbecomes useable causing 2-8 points damage to a large plant or destroyinga 2’ x 2’ area of ground cover vegetation.
Ship’s Rations: Each ration pack equals 1 meal for 4 person Container: Either tray, envelope or cylinder
Whatever the shape of the rations, the container is a silvery package made of some flexible material like oiled skins. At one end ofthe package is a small colored ring, and attached to one side is a strange implement that looks like a spoon with serrated edges and a hollow handle.
The small rings, once pulled, create chemical reactions which cause the package contents to be heated, chilled or rehydrated. Each container may be opened by locating a black tab on the end opposite the ring and tearing back the lid. Therings are color coded: red - heat, white - chill, and blue - rehydrate. The plastic spork may be used to cut food and eat it or the hollow handle may be used as a straw. Possible contents of a rations pack are: protein stews, cero-porridges, nutrient drinks, surrogate steaks, vegetable substitutes and vita-bars.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ANDROIDS AND ROBOTS
Android:
Armor Class: 3
Move: 15"
Hit Dice: 7 (35 hit points standard) No. of Attacks: 2 Damage/Attack: 1-8/1-8 Special Attacks: See below Special Defenses: See below Magic Resistance: See below Intelligence: Average Alignment: Neutral
Size: M
Androids are designed to appear exactly as a human does. About half are “male”, the other half“female”. Each has a built-in frequency key to duplicate yellow and violet color cards. This will permit androids to gain access to all areas requiring these colored cards. Androids are programmed to be able to use any human-standard weapon. They are impervious to cold; takeonly half damage from acid or fire; paralysis, gas, poison, and gaze weapons are useless against them; but if hit with electrical attacks there is a 1% chance per hit point of damage they sustain that the attack will short their circuits. Immersion in water for 3 full rounds will always short circuit an android unless it is a specially built underwater model. As theyare machines, spells do nothave any effect unless the magic affects their components; thus, any charm or hold is useless, but a heat metal spell would do damage as noted with respect to hit points to the android.
Androids with various purposes have different strength ratings. Standard strength is 15 on female models and 16 on the male versions. Guard androids have human maximums. Dexterity standard is 18. Vision is 150% human norm, with infravision to 6”. Audial sensors are also 150% human norm. At 7 or fewer hitpoints remaining there is a 50% chance per round that the android will cease functioning.
Robot, Police: USE ILLUSTRATION #5.
Armor Class: -4
Move: 18” plus 24” emergency speed
Hit Dice: 10 (60 hit points standard)
No. of Attacks: See below
Damage/Attack: See below
Special Attacks: See below
Special Defenses: 20 point force shield (restored at 4 point/round)
Magic Resistance: See below
Intelligence: Programmed
Alignment: Programmed lawful neutral
Size: M
Police robots have built-in orange or red color card capacity, language translators, and atmosphere analysis devices. They have anti-grav units builtin, and the capacity of this unit type is the robot plus 1,000 pounds. Emergency speed is usable for 4 turn every hour.
Police robots have the following attack means: ~ 2 subdual tentacles of 6’ length and 18/00 strength - 2 arms which strike for 3-12 hit points of damage - Q built-in laser pistol in the cranial section which conforms to the specifications of a standard laser pistol, but which has no limit on power use, as the unit operates off the main power source of the robot - base storage capacity for 6 grenades (3 sleep gas, 1 poison gas, 1 explosive, 1 incendiary) which can be fired by compressed air to a maximum range of 8” by the robot - chest paralysis pistol mechanism (power disc operated) = tractor beam which can pull an object of up to 300 pounds weight (as a telekinesis spell) = pressor beam which can push away an object of up to 300 pounds weight (as a telekinesis spell)
28
Only one form of attack can be employed during a round, i.e. subdual tentacle attacks, arm strikes, laseruse (2 shot perround, ‘of course), grenade launching, paralysis attack, or tractor or pressor beam use.
Police robots can never be surprised. They have 200% human norm for both audial and visual sensors. They have infravisual capacity to 12”. Their force screen must be brought to 0 points before any damage accrues to the body of the robot. They can withstand vacuum orwater pressure equal to 500 feet depthwhen their force screen is up. Cold does not harm police robots, nor does gas, paralysis, poison, etc. Fire/heat attacks cause only one-half normal damage and acid affects them only ifthe force shield is down. Lightning and electrical attacks have full effect, and there is a 1% chance per hit point of damage sustained that the robot will malfunction and cease operation due to fused circuitty. Most magical attacks are useless (cf. android).
At 10 or fewer hit points remaining, there is a 50% chance per round that a police robot will cease functioning.
These robots are programmed to use subdual and non-lethal attack forms initially. There is a 25% chance that any police robot encountered will have lost this programming, however, so that violent and deadly attack methods will be used. For such robots, roll d6, treating a6 as use of either pressor or tractor beam, to find which attack method will be used. Robots of this type are 10% likely to have armed themselves with some form of human weapon (blaster pistol or fie, laserrifle, needler), and inthiscase use d8, with 8 being attack with the weapon held in their manipulative digits.
Robot, Worker: USE ILLUSTRATION #6 (#7 for ‘tween decks) Armor Class: 2
Move: 12”
Hit Dice: 7-12 (7 hit points/die standard) No. of Attacks: 2 or 4 (large types) Damage/Attack: 2-12/2-12 or special Special Attacks: tractor and pressor beams Special Defenses: Never surprised
Magic Resistance: See below
Intelligence: Programmed
Alignment: Neutral
Size: M (7-8 HD) to L (9-42 HD)
Worker robots generally have built in violet card capacity, although 10% have yellow color card capacity also. They have atmosphere analysis equipment built in, and anti-gravity mechanisms which allow them to carry up to 2,000 additional pounds of weight by such means.
Smaller models are low clearance forwork between decks. Large varieties are normally cargo handlers. Small robots have only 2 manipulative appendages, while the large ones have these plus 2 heavy duty cargomovingtentacleswitha strengthequivalentot 24, These latter appendages will be used only to grasp and hold. Robots of this sort will only attack if actually attacked and damaged by an opponent, andtheywillseekto grasp and hold first.
Worker robots are immune to vacuum, can withstand water pressure equal to 2,500 feet, are unaffected by cold, take half damage from acid, fire, and heat attacks, and are unaffected by spells except as noted previously (cf. android). Attack by electricity causes normal damage, and there is a 1% chanceper point of damage sustained by the robot thatits circuits will be fused and totally non-functioning. At 20% remaining hit points there is a 50% chance that a worker robot will cease functioning — check each round.
Worker robots have human standard audial and visual capa- bility, and they have infravisual capacity to 9”.
These machines have heaw duty tractor and pressorbeams built in — capacity is 2,000 pounds foreach. Thereis a 10% chanceper round that a robot will switch on one or the other if it is being attacked.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
VEGEPYGMY
Frequency: Very Rare
No. Appearing: 30-300
Armor Class: 4
Move: 12”
Hit Dice: 1-6
% in Lair: 40%
Treasure Type: O, P
No. of Attacks: 4
Damage/Attack: 1-6 or by weapon type
Special Attacks: see below
Special Defenses: see below
Magic Resistance: see below
Intelligence: Low
Alignment: Neutral
Size: $
Psionic Ability: nil
Attack/Defense Modes: nil
Level/X.P. Value: 1 HD — III/53+4/hp. 2 HD — IlI/81+2/hp 3 HD — IIl/120+3/hp 4 HD — IV/175+4/hp 5 HD — IV/245+5/hp. 6 HD — V/425+6/hp
This refers to the level of the monster and its experience point worth,
Vegepygmies are vegetable creatures of low intelligence. They organize themselves into regional bands, living by scavenging and hunting. Meat forms their diet and they will eat it no matter what its condition:
Vegepygmies come in a variely of colors and sizes. Usually their colors will be similar to their normal surroundings. Thus, some will be splotched with green while others might be mottled grey- brown. When encountered in areas that match their coloration, they will blend into the background, surprising 50% of the time. They havefrom4 to 4hit dice, althoughleaders will be greater. The composition of a force will be as follows:
41 hit dice 50% 2 hit dice 25% 3 hit dice 15% 4 hit dice 10%
Those with 4 hit die will be 2’ tall, with an additional 4’ added for every hit die over one.
For every 50 vegepygmiesthere will be one sub-chief of 5 hit dice and 2-5 three hit dice bodyguards. Every band will have a 6 hit dice leader. He will have 2-8 bodyguards of four hit dice.
Attacks from piercing weapons such as arrows and spears do only 4 point of damage to vegepygmies. Electrical attacks dono damage. Fire and cold do normal damage. Vegepygmies are immune to all charm/enchantment spells except those that affect plants.
The lairs of vegepygmies are usually found in warm areas underground, although some may be found in dark forests. They form bands near their main food supply and are usually well- ‘organized in the defense of this food supply. They co-exist welll with other forms of plant life. There is a 40% chance that there will be 1-3 shriekers guarding their lair. Vegepygmies of the same tribe have the ability to pass by these creatures unnoticed, There is a 70% chance that russet mold will be found inthe vicinity of the lair.
Vegepygmies are short bipedal creatures with sharp thorn-like claws. Their shoulders, abdomens, and limbs arefringedwithleat- like tendrils. Their heads have a topknot of small leaves. They eat carrion and meat. Vegepygmies reproduce by russet mold or by Propagating buds from their bodies. Although they do not havea spoken language, they are capable of vocalized cries. Their major form of communication is a code of chest slappings and thumping.
29
RUSSET MOLD
Frequency: Vety Rare
No. Appearing: 1 patch Armor Class: 9
Move: 0”
Hit Dice: -
% in Lair: nil
Treasure Type: nil
No. of Altacks: 0 Damage/Attack: 0
Special Attacks: Radiation Special Defenses: See Below Magic Resistance: See Below Intelligence: Non- Alignment: Neutral
Size: Sto L
Psionic Ability: nil Attack/Defense Modes: nil Level/X.P. Value: not rateable
Found only in damp areas underground, this mold is often mistaken for rust at distances greater than 30’ (70% chance). It is immune to all attacks involving weapons, fire, and cofd but is vulnerable to applications of alcohol, acid, and compounds harmful to plants (such as salt). It can be killed instantly by casting a cure disease o a continual light upon it.
Russet mold makes no physical attacks but emits a barely visible cloud of irradiated spores for a 3’ radius, beyond which the spores settle to the floor, inett. Also, if the mold is contacted it will inject irradiated spores. All creatures passing within 3’ or contacting it must save vs. poison. Failure to save results in a sickness that will kill in 2-5 turns unless a cure disease is cast. Those making a successful save will still suffer 5-20 points of damage from the radiation.
Any character who dies from contacting russet mold will undergo a transformation. First, their body will immediately start to sprout new growths of mold from the spores left at contact. Then, when entirely encased in moid, a vegepygmy (cf.) will rise from the remains. The entire process will take from 21 to 24 hours (d4+20).A hold plant spell will halt the growth of the moldfora time equalto the duration of the spell. A character may not be raised any time after the mold has grown for more than one hour.
Russet mold is golden-brown to rust-red in color. It has a lumpy texture similar to cold porridge and is covered by short, hair-like growths. These stand upright and constantly waver as ifina gentle breeze.
Credits Design: Gary Gygax Layout: Harold Johnson and Jeff R. Leason Able Assistance: Lawrence Schick
Editing and Production: David Cook, Allen Hammack, Harold Johnson, Frank Mentzer, and Jeff. Leason
Art: Jeff Dee, Gregory K. Fleming, David S. LaForce, Erol Otus, Jim Roslof,and David C, Sutherland Ill
Inspiration: Jim Ward and Rob Kuntz
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SPECIAL MODULE CHARACTERS
The following listing of characters may be used to form a party for tournament orregular play. Alternatively, players may wish to use their own characters. THE EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS was designed for a large patty of characters of moderate to high level. Suggested party size is 10 to 15 characters withmosthaving levels between Sth and 10th. Smallerparties mayadventurein this scenario but party levels should be increased accordingly, though never exceeding an average level of 12th. Multi-class characters should be considered as one level higher than their highest level. All characters should have atleast 2-3 useful magic items.
If there are too fewplayer-characters to form a suitable patty, the DM may opt to include some of the characters listed below as non-player characters or each player may handle multiple characters. Itis suggested that players be allowed no more than 2 characters each. They may find it difficult to managemorethan this number and may not be able to identify with such “instant”
SPECIAL ITEMS
POSSESSED BY EACH CHARACTER
Character # 4
NOOR wn
items +3 battleaxe, +2 plate mail, +2 shield, ring of fire resistance Sword, Flametongue; +1 plate mail, +1 shield +4 spear, +4 plate mail, scroll of protection vs magic +4 shield, javelin of lightning Sword of dancing +2 war hammer, +4 plate mail +2 dagger, gem of seeing, boots of levitation, wand of cold (28 charges) potion of clairvoyance, scroll with read magic, light, comprehend languages; ring of invisibility
characters. 9; +4 sword, scroll with sleep, light, fear, +2 bolts (x10), potion of growth Novice players may find it necessary to have characters no lower 40: <Simacel sian et india cies soncreation than 7th level with an average level of 9th in the party. Novice " Tope of entangling, polion of extr-healing Players should also be allowed another magic item per 42. robe of blending character such as a scroll of 2-4 spells, a potion (no oil of 13, +2 sword, bag of holding, cloak of protection +3 ethereainess), or a minor ring of protection. Fighter characters 44. +2 dagger, 1 dagger (x2), rope of climbing should be allowed a +1 of +2 weapon (with no special powers) if 4s “A sword! Gh of sippadinuss they do not already have one. If the DM does not think his players . ‘are capable of handling multiple characters, NPCs should be used to round out the party. CHARACTER ROSTER # Race Alignment Class HP Level $s 1 Ww D c Ch 4 H N Ftr 54 12 45 14 42 43 14 16 2 H CG Ftr 42 7 16 43 14 12 14 13 3 H N Ftr a 6 A7 12 13 14 AS 12 4 H CE Ftr 38 5 18(69) 4 10 16 47 10 5 i LG Ftr 24 4 15 42 4 18 16 16 6 Oo N Ftr 48 8 18(17) 43 9 13 14 12 7 H N Mu 27 44 410 16 14 45 14 14 8 HON MU 220~*S "1 16 13 13 17 9 ~~ 9 3 CG Ftr/MU 24 5/8 45 16 14 17 14 16 40 H LG C41 34 40 12 a4 18 14 12 45 44 H LG C1 33 6 14 10 415 a2 47 10 12 H N Or 30 3 12 13 45 14 16 45 43 H N Th 27 10 10 14 13 17 42 7 44 ~& CE Th 23 9 12 45 8 45 16 43 45 H ied Th 22 5 43 10 10 16 47 10 30
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
J8}0M
2 3 ¢ ai a
Aloypalesqgo JejOMiIepUun lal syn P 4 a e6pug sdwioy “(2)2 Ys} ‘IDM SsDd ‘a'!) sUDAW 4 a = ie 00110} @SD94ID}$ JOS ° 6 sanyo dog '8}9@P UBAMY, JO 'g YO@P SINS +1] |2A9T = Sean SIBPOND SUDIOIUYDO} PUD ‘S1BDYJO ‘S|DIOYO | [2A27 5 “‘Y OL = auonbs yoo a * i | . wan - t | Dopo bo im ft a b 7 < Dpgjo bo) | 5 Aaarvans { | 2 {| S) tig oe I all 7 ra 5 i a = = awa } a = a : | i 41¥I i —1_| Pan, aa ie el x MS al 8 i i % i@ be: B Anan S [ Q t 2 a =| | ¢ wan ; | i a : mann prod va 3 aan z
dIHS 40 NOILD3IS SSOUD
The Advanced Dungeons & Dragons® Game Family
PLAYERS HANDBOOK. This hardbound volume contains everything the player needs to know in AD&D™ fantasy adventures. Within it are complete information on characters, levels, equipment, spells, and more.
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. The hardbound book of essential reference information for the Dungeon Master. Including combat and saving throw tables, magic items, wandering monsters, how to DM a game andcampaign, etc
MONSTER MANUAL. A hardbound compendium of the creatures inhabiting the AD&D fantasy world. Over 350 descriptions of monsters, from Aerial Servant to Zombie, profusely illustrated.
THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK. This work provides a complete campaign milieu in which to base adventures and characters, place dungeons, etc. Two large full-color maps, a folder, anda 32-page booklet full of ready-made historical and geographical information. Suitable for use with Advanced D&D™ game systems.
DUNGEON MASTERS SCREEN. Actually two laminated reference screens, one for normal combat, saving throws, and other oft-needed information, and another for psionic combat. With full color illustrations.
PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS
PERMANENT CHARACTER FOLDER AND ADVENTURE RECORD SHEETS
NON-PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS These three products are designed for various types of character record keeping, and are made for the convenience of player and Dungeon Master alike. All are three-hole drilled for easy notebook storage.
THE ROGUES GALLERY. An aid for the harried Dungeon Master, this booklet contains hundreds of ready-made non-player characters, as well as caravans, bandit groups, dungeon parties, and more.
MODULES Every AD&D module is a ready-to-play adventure setting, populated with appropriate monsters, treasures, tricks, and traps, and including maps, background information, and histories. Though each individual module is designed to stand on its own, several series are specially made to form a connected progression of adventures.
Dungeon Module A1 (Slave Pits of the Undercity)
Dungeon Module A2 (Secret of the Slaver’s Stockade) Dungeon Module A3 (Assault on the Aerie of the Slavelords) Dungeon Module A4 (In the Dungeons of the Slavelords) Dungeon Module C1 (Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan) Dungeon Module C2 (Ghost Tower of Inverness)
Dungeon Module D1-2 (Descent into the Depths of the Earth) Dungeon Module D3 (Vault of the Drow)
Dungeon Module G1-2-3 (Against the Giants)
Dungeon Module I1 (Dwellers of the Forbidden City) Dungeon Module Q1 (Queen of the Demonweb Pits) Dungeon Module S1 (Tomb of Horrors)
Dungeon Module S2 (White Plume Mountain)
Dungeon Module T1 (Village of Hommlet)
The designation "TM" Isusedtoreferto trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL | at tale
ATC 9 7 ¢ | t I & tal ts ri 43 if } J 6 7 v 8) 1) WY THA i — awe il wi KIT) c g aaa man A Oo t T = 4 2 TL r2j2}2}2 72) T 4 8 51 60 A) C. 2: € 3 nD OUNCE 1 | ao i r a a 7 i im Si i T f=] OnE feo DOUBLE DOOR DROP TUBE EF 4 OPEN DOORWAY [v] VIOLET CARD DOOR ON/OFF LIT AREA BROWN CARD DOOR [>] ORANGE CARD DOOR BRIGHTLY LIT AREA [5] GREY CARD DOOR YELLOW CARD DOOR | DIMLY LIT AREA [F] RED CARD DOOR [| JET BLACK CARD DOOR = UNLIT AREA
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL Il ' Ce
Ee] DOOR [>] PILLARS SCALE: 1 SQUARE EQUALS 10 FEET Fe] BROWN CARD DOOR >
MACHINERY
SPHINCTER
HOLE IN DECK
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL , caweo, t OL 4 mg i HO|LO] £ | | UNE 1-8 t 4 (sia | HOLD, iat if ‘CfaR|GO) ae CI Nt a 6 i 3) T T J T Canico| ct Me =f HOLD | ; + 5 | F # ae eb Ww {T0) a Al TET ritojor! Yt ae HE EEE 1 a | Inclo is i ‘OUNIGE Ht | 9 5 T t ie ATICHEN Mica cow i | 1 T i 9 CARGO) Hojo os ‘a aad a i xa 1 ‘UN | Z [Tehnle ANIC ING FT | [notol ial AR [HOLD]
HOLE IN CEILING
DROP TUBE ir ON/OFF LIT AREA
LiFT
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
FE 4 OPEN DOORWAY
BROWN CARD DOOR
5 [v] VIOLET CARD DOOR ra | VINES a UNLIT AREA
FOLIAGE DIMLY LIT AREA
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL IV
3 E i) $ ? 0 R A ¢ iy
HUT | RIE TIEN|T t}ON] LIFT AISTIRAIL E : th C a Lolunlee eel ta e S Ud) i 2. BAR| BC y B| a “I at Ta . ; lw ~ HH : a Cc] 2 cet a & ez 5 5 0 es : aml E t ' y 3 3 tu a ss tele +1}. ¢ z G ac 0 1) 1S a fe APL At a2 . a rir SE z x 5.45 oo 2 c BC Seas i g a 3 v 7 BS * RSE) a ole! 41 a Pz Bi i i FEED] Siro}Rak € LiFT FENCE BURROW FOLIAGE ON/OFF LIT AREA FOLIAGE he STREAM BRIGHTLY LIT AREA WATER UNLIT AREA
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL V
TRAPDOOR
BULKHEAD WALL’
MOLD @ @; PILLARS & SPHINCTER
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL Vi
ESSING| i
haben} ae a
oom
ARGO
LuFT
=] pooR [v] VIOLET CARD DOOR Fa] DOUBLE DOOR [s] GREY CARD DOOR WATER
f 4 OPEN DOORWAY STAIRS BROWN CARD DOOR
LOCKER
CURTAIN STORAGE
[)[-]
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ee Dungeon Module $3
% ape . 9 Expedition to the Barrier Peaks by Gary Gygax AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 8-12
This iftustration booklet is specially designed for use with the module. it contains over 60 Illustrations (four of which are full-page color illustrations) pertaining to various features of the ship, and should be used by the Dungeon Master to show appropriate views to the players as they adventure. Each illustration within this booklet carries a number which corresponds fo the rooms and locations on the master map (nofe that all locations are shown and some appeor more than once). The descriptive copy within the other booklet indicates when appropriate
illustrations should be shown.
This booklet, if will be noted, has an additional cross-fold. This allows the Dungeon Master fo fold the booklet horizontally as well as vertically along the binding, and in this manner reveal to the viewing players only a single illustration of the appropriate size. The DM can place a finger or thumb over the number appearing on each picture to avold giving any clues as to room number or location fo the viewing players.
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. © 1980, 1984, TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
TSR Hobbies, Inc.
POB 756 LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
“The GameWizards © 1980 TSR Games All Rights Reserved ISBN 0-935696-14-8
PRINTED IN U.S.A This module booklet is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of material or artwork containedherein is prohibited without consent of TSR Hobbies, Inc.
‘Advanced Dungeonsé& Dragons, Advanced DED, and ADKD are trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 9033
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
tL UT
Rou OTUs
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
A
Ke ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x ¢ x
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
N =
eS Ey, 2 i x x o ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS :
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS Xe
« ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
BAKA AOVARNs £54: MADAMA
x ally 986
\
YQ i S|) MOXA eS WNE goa BY-oa4 \\
AL
WHAAYA AAA QMALS¢° AVANK' 454 RMA Lee WALA > MAZAXAY Met >
XU ACVK RIAA 40 VAR AYAAL: 2&Ae° ARZPV LAAV 4@@
4 LBeALAI KE
3 BDHALA' WAE
ne Sac
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Y
|
ie
NL
(i) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Ke ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x ¢ x
Ce
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIIATED
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED
EXPEDITION TO
THE BARRIER PEAKS
155
TURES REIMCARMATED e E Ml TO THE BARRIER PEAK:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Mi ——<_
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNHATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS NX
" iz xs %, CG
zy Car QT
“Ww
iS iS
BS =
)
« ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
a in
q A
CNN od iw if
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS 16 2 BARRIER PEAS < Pe
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x
Ts
(isd ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARHATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS (ist)
és) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS xX
eX ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINICARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
y THINKIN NAVD ONY
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS Xe
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINC
ARIIATED «
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x ¢ “
x $ x ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
CHAPTER THREE
The Spaceship
STARTING THE SDVENTURE
The following introductory material is intended for use in conjunction with the World of Greyhawk campaign world (as this is where the original module was set). Dun- geon Masters intending to use this adventure in cam- paigns set in other D&D worlds can either revise this in- troduction to include references to their own campaigns or use the Alternate Beginning provided in chapter 4.
The Grand Duchy of Geoff has recently been plagued by a rash of unusually weird and terrible monsters of unknown sort. This western area, particularly the mountain fastness which separates the Grand Duchy from the Dry Steppes, has long been renowned for the generation of the most fearsome beasts, and it has been shunned accordingly—save for a handful of hardy souls with exceptional abilities and sufficient wealth to build stout strongholds to ward off the attacks of the predatory creatures infesting the rugged lands thereabout. Within the last few months, however, a walled town not far distant from the area, and four small fortresses as well, were destroyed by mysterious attacks! The remaining barons and lords have preserved in brine several partially decomposed corpses found on or near the sites of the ravaging. While these strange bodies are assumed to have belonged to the forces which were responsible for the destruction, the remains were too far gone to learn anything other than they were of creatures heretofore unknown to even the wisest sages of Geoff. The urgent plea for aid which accompanied these gruesome corpses could not be ignored, and the Grand Duke acted immediately. Choosing several of his doughtiest henchmen to lead the expedition, he called upon the other powers of the state to likewise furnish their minions for the expedition as well. Thus, the Society of the Magivestre, the Fellowship of the Binding Light, the Magsmen’s Brotherhood, and the High Lord of Elvendom (at Hocholve) also selected the bravest of adventurers and equipped them accordingly to accompany the expedition as their representa- tives. A total of 15 have assembled beneath the pennoned turrets of the Grand Duke's mighty castle near Gorna.
There it was learned that several unconfirmed reports have related that monsters have been disgorged from a gated cave at random intervals. The entrance to this place is high upon a rocky face, and sheathed in armor. This protection has purportedly frustrated all attempts to explore the space beyond the metal valve—although several search parties have entirely disappeared, so it is possible they entered but never returned. Your expedition must find out exactly what this cave is, what is causing the monsters to come forth, who is responsible, and how to prevent future incursions. In addition, any other information regarding this mysterious locale, its strange deni- zens, magical devices, or unusual weaponry is highly desirable, His High Radiance, Owen I, has assured all of the concerned parties that whatever information ts gained will be given to all, and wealth found will be shared according to the contribution each individual or representative group makes to the overall success of the expedition. If necessary, the Grand Duke has vowed to send forth an army to lay waste to the offending place and extinguish every living thing therein. Should your expedition not meet with total success, this step will be considered, but His High Radiance personally doubts such extreme measures will be required considering the strength of the expedition and the ability of its members. The Grand Duke feels assured that you will certainly locate the person or thing responsible Jor the troubles plaguing Geoff and eliminate him, her, or it from the face of the land.
Your party set forth from Gorna a sennight ago, and for the past two days have been climbing higher into the wags of the Barrier Peaks. Last night was spent in the keep of the only Baron remain- ing in the area—and he was fulsome glad for your company. This morning, as the eastern horizon turned from pearl gray to rosy pink, a score of the Baron's retainers guided the expedition towards the unknown area. It is now afternoon, and you have set up camp in a hidden dell but a few bowshots from the strange entrance. The men-at-arms have been detailed to guard the supplies and mounts at the camp while you go onward immediately. They will await your return for four full days befere returning to the keep. Gathering jour personal gear, you are now climbing the steep slope of the dell’s north side, passing the rim, and forcing your way through a dense growth of trees and undergrowth. There, across a field and beyond
a rocky rise, awaits adventure...
oRiGinaL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER
Expedition to the Barrier Peaks is an adventure for character levels 8-12. After your players have had a chance to digest the background information, have them order the party in the manner they desire—typical open field order, 20- foot corridor order, and 10-foot corridor order. If the players are using the pre-generated characters provided in this adventure (see appendix D), pass out those char- acters so they may record the data. Each participant can play the role of one, two, or even three of the characters. Do not be surprised if one or more of the better players are suspicious of what they are about to get into, for the discerning will have noted the hints given in the intro- duction.
Be certain that you are quite familiar with the entire mod- ule, and read each encounter section carefully. Be sure to display the handouts at the appropriate time, and allow players to view them as long as they like—just keep track of the minutes and rack off rounds accordingly.
THE SPACESHIP
Sometime else, a large exploration-colonization expedi- tion of human origin was overtaken in the course of its journey by a deadly plague. In a vain effort to halt the spread of the virus, the modular sections of the vessel were sealed and then separated, each left to its own fate. The section concerned here was drawn through a black hole and spewed into the universe where the World of Greyhawk fantasy setting exists. Chance brought it to that very planet, and its computers and robotics brought it to an intact landing.
This process, however, caused an earth tremor, and a landslide buried the ship section for several decades. Then a computer malfunction sent worker robots to a cargo hatch to discharge material, and when these robots found the hatch blocked by fallen earth and stone, they promptly cleared it and unloaded the requisite cargo— unfortunately for the inhabitants of the area, for the holds contained various alien fauna and flora, and the offloading freed these creatures from stasis. Some died
immediately, some lived for a time, and a few species
prospered and propagated.
Recently, another earthquake uncovered an upper air lock, and the tremor caused the same computer malfunc- tion, so the worker robots again cleared the lower cargo lock and periodically discharged more of the unwanted “goods.”
Communication Problems. Most of the sentient spe- cies aboard the ship speak an alien language unknown to the PCs’ home planet. For simplicity’s sake, this lan- guage is referred to as “Alien Common” in the text. Alien Common can be understood using either the comprehend Janguages spell, magical items that mimic that spell, or through the language translator devices found aboard the ship. Many of the spaceship’s robots possess internal lan- guage translators that allow them to communicate with the party given enough time to study the PCs’ unknown tongue.
At the DM’s discretion, simple communication might be possible between the party and the spaceship’s denizens through bodily gestures and other miming. Any creature with an Intelligence of 8 or higher and the ability to un- derstand a language is a possible candidate for mimed communication. Creatures with lower intellect or who do not understand a language cannot be communicated with in this fashion.
Illustrations. A collection of illustrations depicting vari- ous parts of the ship and its inhabitants is included with this adventure, in appendix E. Be certain to employ these handouts as indicated—or whenever players are in an area with a graphic depiction and request to be shown the illustration again. Be sure to emphasize the strange flora and fauna on Level IV and then show them the ap- propriate handouts!
Circled Numeral Encounter Areas. Each of the level maps contains one or more encounter areas featuring a circled numeral. These encounters are newly designed ar- eas ripe for exploration by the adventurers which do not appear in the original adventure. They are marked on the map in this special manner to make them easily identifia- ble by the DM. The descriptions for each of these newly included circled numeral areas are found in chapter 6.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
a - = ——_e
THE Vast EMPTINESS OF SPACE(SHIPS)
Even a cursory look at some of the level maps reveals there are sections of the ship that are either empty and undescribed in the dungeon key or are areas that repeat multiple times. This wasn’t unusual in the early days of the roleplaying hobby when dungeon crawls were all about locating treasure as quickly as possible and avoiding resource-draining and wealth-lacking random encounters that occurred roughly once per game hour. Empty rooms or chambers containing nothing of value were commonly sprinkled through a dungeon. Gary Gygax himself sug- gested that each dungeon level should only have monsters in about 20% of the available rooms and that 20% of these monsters should have no treasure at all. That makes for some challenging dungeon crawling when treasure was the measure by which experience points were gained!
Dungeon design philosophies have changed greatly in the more than 40 years since Expedition to the Barrier Peaks was created, and players introduced to the hobby in more recent times can quickly become discouraged by encountering yet another empty room on Level I or rummaging through seemingly endless cargo holds on the lower levels of the ship. Unless the DM really desires to run an old school dungeon craw] true to the hobby’s roots and the players are all in agreement, it will likely be prudent to avoid having the party explore one empty room after another if only to avoid boring your players to the point where the characters abandon the dungeon before things get really interesting.
An easy way to do this is to hand-wave the empty rooms with a brief narrative description such as, “Having deter- mined how to open the doors with a jet black color strip on their locks, you proceed to investigate all the rooms along the south wall. Each has been stripped of its contents or long ago looted and contains nothing of interest except for some old rags and more of those curious skeletons. After an hour, you’ve thoroughly explored all the southern chambers. You now face the northern wall and see more jet black marked doors. However, one at the end of the hallway has a violet color strip over its strange lock.” A similar approach can be done with the cargo bays: “You spend 30 minutes opening random crates and find only decaying organic material which may have been food and some completely corroded mechanical parts that no longer function. Despite the search, it is obvious this large storage room contained only worthless and uninteresting materials. Would you like to go through the south door or the north door now?”
It’s best to inform the players that you intend to do this method of speeding up play and to promise them that you'll never skip over the good stuff or otherwise penalize them for not performing a painstaking search of every square foot of the dungeon—and then keep your promise. When the party comes upon a keyed room or their passive Per- ception checks uncover interesting features during the party’s exploration, pause the hand-waving descriptions and return to regular playing mode. This may of course hint to the party that there’s something about to happen, but this abrupt change will likely heighten their anticipation and excitement, leading to more enjoyable gaming sessions.
The DM should continue to track time for the purposes of spell durations, burning torches, and similar phenomena with set time limits. A good rule of thumb is that a regular size dungeon room (30 feet by 30 feet for example) can be explored in 10 minutes, while a larger chamber like a cargo hold requires 30 minutes to search.
array. Harmless mold, dirt, soot, and other stains discolor walls, rugs, and furnishings. The once austere futuristic
GEMERAL FEATURES
General Conditions. Although the starship was once a futuristic piece of unimaginable technology, the viral outbreak and chaos that followed, and the long neglect and rampaging denizens have had their effect. Corridors are littered with broken pieces of machinery, old clothes, smashed bits of furnishings, fire damage, and other dis-
décor is now a largely green and brown with age. This allows the vegepygmies to benefit from their Plant Cam- ouflage trait even if there is no vegetation present. Their mottled gray-brown coloration enables them to blend with ship walls in many areas.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SE
=e SSS
hid
oll
LEVEL! LEVEL I
LEVEL It
LEVEL IV
LEVEL V
SUB-LEVEL V
LEVEL VI
is LAs YM oper,
WOT
Uy Level I: Officials’, officers’, and technicians’ quarters V wy Level Il: Service deck 5, or ‘tween decks 0
Level Ill: Upper walkway and lounge area Level IV: Botanical gardens, rookery, and menagerie Level V: Service deck 6, or garden ‘tween decks Sub-level V: Atmospheric ballast* Level VI: Theater, athletic, and activity deck Level Vil: Biological manufacturing and colonization storage holds “This level is inaccessible unless by some magical means,
is: etherealness, wish, et.)
COO
QQ] fFRrKr WS] §
CZ ia
Drop Chutes
Spiral Staircase
5 ? a 3 2 3
Lew wpedr id lglappac tli
L Naa idebe Rammamamacizeg Yj,
LEVEL VII ~
y
Y
SG
Viewports
Rat | terrace
KY Bridge
WSS
SEAN
El Underwater
a4] Observartory
aa
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Light. The spaceship’s lighting generally remains com- pletely functional. Some corridors are unlit or are dimly lit and these are darkly or moderately screened on the map. Certain areas are lightly screened; these are sections where the lighting is very bright. White areas have full lighting, but rooms are lit only when a panel beside the door is touched. Thus:
Unlit areas (darkly screened areas on map) = darkness conditions
Dimly lit areas (moderately screened areas on map) = dim light conditions
Brightly lit areas (lightly screened areas on maps) = bright light Unscreened areas = on/off lights (darkness/bright light)
EXCEPTIONS: all ‘tween decks areas are unlit; Level IV has alternating light and dark periods.
It is also important to note that the lighting on Level IV is an exception to the standard. The entire level will light up for 14 hours and then go dark for 7 hours, i.e. the lights go out suddenly and return after the 7-hour “night” period elapses. Keep track of entry time and how long the party remains within the ship!
Doors. Doors and hatchways need special attention, for they require color cards to function, so standard door symbols cannot be employed, and care must be taken to correctly recall which letter code represents which order of card. The letter symbols for doors (or color of card to activate a deck hatchway) are:
G = gray card
R = red card
Y = yellow card O = orange card V = violet card B = brown card J = jet black card
There are some doors which will open merely by press- ing upon the panel beside them, and such portals are in- dicated by the standard door symbol.
The doors on the ship are far too complex to be picked with thieves’ tools. A knock spell or similar magic will cause a door to open without the proper color card. In
certain cases, some locks can be bypassed by dealing damage to them with lasers or magical spells. These in- stances are noted in the text below.
DM Note: Whenever the party is before a door, show Handout #1. The metal around the upper slot will be color keyed, if applicable.
Colored Cards. Each of these cards are rectangular bits of nearly indestructible plastic about 3 inches long by 2 inches wide. Since characters should not be aware of the actual nature of the different technological items found on the ship, descriptions have been provided in appendix C for most of the unusual items that they might find.
Colored cards will appear as heavily leaded panes of colored glass. No clues to their function should be given, as the characters must figure out their proper use. While some colors are specific, most will serve to open doors to areas which are keyed to lesser rank color. The colors are given below, with descending order of rank and general description of the rank/occupation/ profession of hold- er each was designed for. Note that robots and androids will note color by means of their visual sensors, provided the card is held forth in a manner which enables the scan- ning of its surface.
GRAY: ship commander and top officials
RED: police/security officials
YELLOW: medical of ficers*
ORANGE: security personnel
VIOLET: technicians
BROWN: crew and maintenance workers
JET BLACK: passengers/colonists
*Yellow cards will not trigger orange entry locks.
To trigger an entry, the card is slipped into the proper slot and when the door/access opens, the card is dropped into the return. An improper card triggers an alarm, a low buzzing sound, and the card is held by the lock. The alarm summons a police robot (see appendix B) which arrives in 1d4 minutes. If the party is still present, the police robot questions them (which may not be compre- hensible to the adventurers) and, unless shown an orange or higher grade color card, attempts to arrest them and bring them to Police HQ (area 25 on Level I) for incar- ceration.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Ceilings. The levels of the spaceship have ceilings of various heights depending on their purpose. In the event that a character has a mishap with one of the non-func- tioning drop chutes (see below), the distances between levels may become important! The different ceiling heights are shown on the Cross Section of the Ship map.
Machinery. Crosshatched areas ‘tween decks are areas of possible danger from generators and other equipment. These dangers are described in the appropriate places.
Drop Chutes. Drop chutes are described in the key to Level I. The UP side is always towards the ship’s hull, the DOWN is always towards the interior; this is coded “U” and “D,” respectively. Drop chutes with full anti-gravity are coded with the letter “A” in the center, and these tubes are brightly lit. Those in which the anti-gravity is NOT functioning, but in which the grasp handles still move are coded with the letter “G” in the center (to indicate that gravity is in effect); these tubes are only dimly lit. Non- functioning drop chutes are coded with the letter “N”; they have no anti-gravity nor do their handles move, and they are completely dark. Drop chutes are illustrated on the map thus:
12) U
(N) (A) uAD ou u D ee . south north west east
Handout #2 illustrates a typical tube. Note that the il- lustration shows a sealed sphincter above, indicating that the level above is sealed off. (In this case, of course, the level above is gone, since this module of the ship was blasted free in the cataclysm which destroyed the ves- sel.) Similar closing devices will be noted by users of a drop tube, but the mechanisms will be open. Important note: Small, broad doors will be noticeable in the drop tube between Levels I and III and IV and VI. These are access doors to the ‘tween decks areas. They are keyed to brown cards.
Radiation Sickness. There are certain areas on the ship that are irradiated. All radiation areas are matrixed with the numerals 13 regardless of level, except on Levels IV and VI where no hazard exists. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these areas may be subject to radiation sickness.
These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitu- tion saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1)
x 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and loses another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condition. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation se- rum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
Sub-Level V. There is a largely inaccessible sub-level lo- cated between Levels V and VI (see the Cross Section of the Ship map). This vast empty space measures 540 feet in diameter and 55 feet in height. This area served as at- mospheric ballast when the surrounding decks were part of the main spaceship, a massive storage tank containing breathable air. Now that this section of the ship has been jettisoned, the atmospheric ballast deck is filled with stale air and nothing else (unless the DM is feeling ambitious and chooses to elaborate on this sub-level). No access is provided on the adjoining levels and the PCs will be un- able to enter this section of the ship without magical aid such as plate armor of etherealness or other means allowing them to bypass solid metal walls.
START
You top the rise and gain your first view of the hillside beyond. Erosion has eaten away at the rocky slope, partially revealing what appears to be a metal wall of great height. Atop one part of the steep slope, a small upper door stands open. At the bottom of the slope, some distance belon, another larger door is sealed tight.
The expedition has just topped the rise and gained their first view of the metal-doored “cave.” At this point, show Handout #3 which depicts the hillside where erosion has exposed two doors—a small upper door (through which the party must enter), and a large lower cargo hatch (which will open only when the party is inside and certain conditions prevail).
Whenever the party approaches for the first time, the small door will be open. It will remain open for 1 hour. After this period, it will then close for 20 hours before reopening again for another hour. As the men-at-arms will wait exactly four days, the party had better be on its toes and not too timid.
Entry is from the south side of the vessel. The upper- most door leads to area 1 of Level I. See that area’s de- scription for more details about what occurs when the party enters the ship.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SX. SCALE: 1 SQUARI
SENS rsnsoscgsn ss
ws
DROP TUBE
DOUBLE DOOR,
\ OPEN DOORWAY [v] VIOLET CARD DOOR \ f f_ | ON/OFF LIT AREA — \ [o] ORANGE CARD DOOR , hl BRIGHTLY LIT AREA GRAY CARD DOOR ; [| DIMLY LITAREA ~
UNLIT AREA
SSS
RED CARD DOOR
Ulld Y Wp UDI da Ld
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL I: OFFICIALS’, OFFICERS’, AND TECHNICIANS’ @UARTERS
WANDERING MONSTERS
Each hour the party is exploring this level of the space- ship, roll a d12. On a roll of 1, an encounter occurs. Then roll a d6 and consult the appropriate table below based on the party’s current location:
SOUTHER HEMISPHERE
D6 Encounter
1 1d8 + 8 vegepygmies with 2d4 thornies (Hand- out #4; see appendix B for both)
1 police robot (Handout #5; see appendix B) 1d2 + 1 displacer beasts
1 worker robot (Handout #6; see appendix B)
1 trapper (see appendix B)
1d8 + 8 vegepygmies with 2d4 thornies (Hand- out #4; see appendix B for both)
Anson
NORTHERN HEMISPHERE
D6 Encounter
1 1 worker robot (Handout #6; see appendix B)
2. 2d6 + 12 vegepygmies (Handout #7; see appen-
dix B)
1d4 + 1 shadows
police robot (Handout #5; see appendix B)
5 2d6 + 12 vegepygmies (Handout #7; see appen- dix B)
6 — 1d2 will-o’-wisps
ENCOUNTER AREAS
UNNUMBERED ROOMS
This room may have once been living quarters or a common room, but is long disused. The furniture is made from rusting, pitted metal and another now dingy material similar to leather but of great rigidity. From the state of the chamber, it looks like someone or something looted the place thoroughly.
These rooms are typically apartments, activity rooms (those with doors which require no color card), and util- ity/maintenance/storerooms. Unless noted by a number code each such area is thoroughly looted, has some jum-
bled furniture or rotting goods therein, and 1d4 - 1 in- animate skeletons of generally human appearance. Eve- rything is worthless or in bad condition, the furnishings are plastic or metal, and only bits of rag or odd pieces of junk can be found.
AREA 1 - ENTRYWAY
A metal room, about 18 feet deep and 20 feet wide, lies beyond the open “cave” mouth. The south wall of the room curves slightly inward and a pair of 10-foot-square doors stand closed in the north wall.
This room is an air lock, albeit a malfunctioning one. The door in the ship’s outer hull opens for 1 hour every 20 hours. Outside of this brief window of time, entry and egress from the ship is nearly impossible.
Development. Once the party has entered, the outer door will silently shut, and the 20-foot-wide inner door will part to reveal the 60-foot-by-60-foot entry area with a drop tube (non-functioning) to the lower levels (area 2).
AREA 1A-SPACE SUIT STORAGE
A 20-foot-by-20-foot chamber is located beyond the now unsealed door. A dozen bizarre garments made from shiny cloth hang in cubicles along the perimeter of the room. On a shelf above each garment is a spherical helmet made of glass and another unknown material that looks something like hardened clay. The garments appear to have been damaged and many are little more than rags.
These rooms held the space suits necessary for survival outside of the spaceship. Each room holds a dozen space suits, but they were destroyed by the plague-maddened inhabitants of the ship at the height of the outbreak. The helmets are still salvageable but they possess no life sup- port functions and inhibit the hearing and vision of any- one wearing them. Wearing a space suit helmet imparts disadvantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks related to vision or hearing.
AREA 2 - DROP TUBES
A olindrical chamber about 20 feet in diameter stands in the cent- er of this area. Its intertor is accessible by a pair of open archways facing one another on opposite sides of the chamber. Within the cylinder, a pair of wide bands bearing metal handles spaced 8 feet apart run vertically down the other two walls.
Show Handout #2. As previously noted, these four de- vices are in different states of functioning. Each tube is a cylinder with an opening on both sides. Inside are two
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
tracks opposite each other, running down the vertical length of the shaft. Each track has a series of handles spaced 8 feet apart. One of these tracks will be moving up and the other will be moving down in all tubes that are operational. In those which anti-grav still functions, the individual need only step in, float weightlessly, and grasp a passing handle to be borne in whichever direction is de- sired. At the top and bottom of the tube the handles fold into the wall to complete a circuit. In the non-operational tube, of course, the handles do not move at all, but they will support up to 400 pounds of weight.
A tube which still functions mechanically, but which has no anti-gravity, can be used if the characters firmly grasp a handle prior to stepping into the chute; if any character attempts to step into the tube and then grasp a handle, they must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. Failure equals a fall which will almost certainly prove fatal from the upper level, causing 3 (1d6) bludgeoning dam- age for each 10 feet of vertical distance fallen.
AREA 3 —- TRAPPER
A pile of rags, bones, and strange husk-like forms lies atop the floor here. A strange violet-colored and rectangular piece of glass is half-buried by the debris.
A trapper (see appendix B) clings to the ceiling directly above the pile, attacking anyone who moves beneath it.
The pile contains bones and tattered clothes. The husks are the bodies of vegepygmies.
Treasure. The violet-colored piece of glass is actually a violet card.
AREA 4- SMALL REPAIR ROBOT
A small metallic thing that resembles a gnome crossed with some type of insect lies slumped against the wall here. It appears to have been beaten and its metallic skin is covered in dents and gashes. Curious looking items that might be tools of some kind lie scattered around it.
Show Handout #8. This destroyed repair robot has been battered, and its main circuitry is broken. Small hand tools scattered around it can be used to open its chest plate where 1d4 intact gem bearings can be pried out. Anyone attempting to dig one of the bearings out must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity check or suffer 5 (1d10) lightning damage caused by an unlucky contact with a live wire.
Treasure. Each of the gem bearings is worth 50 gp.
AREA 5 —- GAME ROOM
More than a score of brightly colored boxes standing as high as a person are arranged in rows throughout this room. Each of the boxes is adorned nith a number of strange attachments: slots, but- tons, wheels, and mysteriously shaped metal protrusions are all com- ponents to the unusual objects. Many of the boxes have been dam- aged, exposing gears and broken metal. Other boxes are untouched.
These rooms originally housed various amusement de- vices of mechanical and electronic nature. The mechani- cal ones have been broken and looted, but the electronic ones are still functional. If the party members have any of the coinage used on the ship they can get rid of it here “shooting” at spaceships, monsters, etc. You may optionally include any sort of gambling devices you wish here—slot machines, blackjack, etc. How you run such games is strictly up to you.
There are also several standard shooting gallery games here. These include guns with handles bolted to tables, others with cables coming out of them, and other vari- ous things like this. Players should be told that they are mysterious metal shaped objects unless they have found such weapons or have encountered creatures using them. In this case, they should be told they see more objects similar to those they have already seen.
Development. If any character spends 10 minutes or more practicing with these shooting galleries, trying to learn how to handle them (this should be specifically stat- ed), they may be granted advantage on their first Intelli- gence check to operate a similar weapon. See appendix C for more details on operating technological devices.
AREA 6 - LOUNGES
This area was once very posh and comfortable, but it is now in ru- ins. There are torn upholstered chairs, broken and overturned small tables, smashed glass and metal boxes, and other debris. Ashes and soot indicate that fires once burned here as well. Bones and skulls are visible in the mess.
These lounges were relaxation areas for the crew and pas- sengers. The smashed metal and glass boxes are broken drink and snack dispensers. All the lounges have been looted, but a few personal items are in the deep folds of lounge furniture, lost during the last few hectic days before the plague took everyone.
If the party searches the room, make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) group check. If at least half the party suc- ceeds, they discover something of interest. Roll 1d6 on
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
the table below for each lounge area searched. Check once only. The treasure found will be:
D6 Discovered Treasure
1 A strange parchment bearing alien writing. If com- prehend languages is used on the writing, it reveals itself to be notes on an escaped intellect devourer running amok on the ship, detailing where it was confined (see Level II, area 1). After this result has been rolled once, further rolls of 1 on the table indicate a brown card is found instead.
2. 1d3 ampules of serum which will cure any dis- ease if injected if the ampule is still viable. There is a 70% chance each ampoule still works, a 20% chance it has become ineffective, and a 10% chance it is now poisonous (user must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 55 [10d10] poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one). Check for each am- pule of serum when used.
3. One piece of jewelry worth 3d6 x 100 gp
4 Three pieces of jewelry worth 1d4 x 1,000 gp each
5 A jet black card A violet or orange card (50/50 chance)
AREA7-— KITCHENS
Bare countertops with a number of large trenchers made from a curious horn-like material are present in this room. Along one wall is a bench with eight metal boxes resting atop it. Each box has a dark colored glass door in its front and a number of small square metal plates set beside it.A short black cylinder is visible atop each box as well. Along another wall is a fine metal mesh with a rivet below it. Next to this is a long narrow door. Near the entrance is a dark glass plate with four rivets below it.
Everything which was possibly useful and not bolted down has been removed from these areas. However, there are still computer operated food dispensers as indicated in each kitchen. The objects described above are—for the DM’s benefit—food dispensers (the metal boxes atop the bench) with selector buttons (the small square metal plates), and a temperature control knob (the black cylin- der); a communications system call box (the metal mesh with rivet, the call box’s operating button); and the daily menus screen (the glass plate with four buttons), which no longer works. The narrow door opens to a small compart- ment containing a number of shelves and is a refrigeration unit. The large trenchers are plastic trays.
Some of the food dispensers still function and are oper- ated by punching the appropriate selector buttons and twisting the temperature control knob to the desired heat/cold setting. If food is dispensed, it will be served in a compartmented tray of a horn-like material (plastic).
Only 1d6 + 1 dispensers in each kitchen function, but there is a 50% chance the dispenser produces poisonous food. Anyone consuming poisonous food must succeed in a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poi- soned. The creature remains poisoned until the condi- tion is removed or they take a long rest. Non-poisonous food provides nourishment as normal and the DM is encouraged to use her imagination in describing what random meal the dispenser produces and how it tastes to the eater.
Development. If the PCs encounter vegepygmies while ina kitchen area, the vegepygmies have advantage on all attack rolls and gain a +2 bonus to damage due to their ferocious reaction at seeing their food supply threatened. At least one will immediately return to their home area (either area 22 or 32) and gather the whole tribe to do battle.
AREA 8 — DINING ROOMS Use the following description for the large dining rooms to the west:
This chamber was clearly once a feast hall of some kind, able to meet the dining needs of dozens of eaters. The furnishings are now displaced, overturned, and in shambles. Eating utensils and large trenchers lie scattered on the floor. The gleam of white bones is vis- thle among the mess.
Use this description for the three smaller dining rooms to the eastern end of the level:
Overturned tables and broken chairs are strewn about the room. Bent and broken eating utensils, some of which are stabbed into tables and walls, are scattered here and there. Old bones, some still clad in rags, are mixed in with the other debris.
These mess halls served the crew and officers alike. The two large ones to the west have mess tables and were cafeteria-like places. The three smaller ones to the east were for the higher-ups, and they contained tables and chairs. All five of these areas are now in ruins. The fur- nishings are jumbled, and there are quite a number of skeletons and bones strewn about. They have nothing of value within them.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 9 —- POLICE ROBOT AREA
Strange tables and an unusual chair occupy a portion of this room. Box-like devices rest atop the tables, while glass-faced containers filled with crackling snow or mist hang along the wall. A number of weird metal cylinders with daw-tipped arms and segmented ten- tacles go about performing incomprehensible duties.
Show Handout #9. This room contains 1d6 police ro- bots (see appendix B) when first entered.
The box-like devices are communications units and com- puter consoles that were once linked to the central com- puter, but they no longer function. The glass-faced con.
tainers are in truth monitors that now display only static and are also non-functioning.
Development. The robots question the party’s reasons for being present here, but speak only Alien Common and their queries are unintelligible to the PCs without means to translate them. If the party fails to respond immediately, the police robots will apprehend them and bring them to Police HQ (area 25) for holding. However, they will not question any character displaying an orange, red, or gray color card. Possession of one of these cards will not allow characters to command the police robots.
AREA 9A — REPAIR PARTS AREA
This room appears to be a storeroom. It is filled with small boxes of paper-like material, long metallic tentacles hanging from the ceiling, and even odder metal rods, disks, hemispheres, and other inexplicable objects.
Spare parts for the ship’s police robots are stored here. The boxes of paper-like material (cardboard) contain di- odes, circuits, bearings, and other small parts.
Treasure. A search of the room along with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check discovers 12 power discs (see appendix C) here amidst numerous replace- ment parts. It takes 5 minutes of searching to locate them among the other odds and ends, however.
AREA 9B —- DISABLED ROBOTS AREA
Cylindrical bodies, their interiors visible through open holes in their sides and displaying all manner of colorful string and thin pieces of horn, lie atop tables throughout the room. A hulking metal thing with insectile arms and legs rummages around inside one of the inert bodies.
A worker robot (see appendix B) is busily engaged in repairing one of the 11 non-functional police robots pre-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
sent in this room. The police robots are all in various states of repair. The worker robot ignores the party un- less attacked or they try and interfere with its work. In that case, it summons help from area 9. There is nothing of value in this room.
AREA 9C —- ARSENAL
Rows of closed metal boxes line the walls of this room. .A high bench in the middle of the room has open boxes sitting atop it. Several of the crates contain oval objects resting in nests of seft, spongy material. A stack of large coin-shaped objects stands beside the boxes.
There are cases of grenades of all types here, and power discs in locked metal boxes. A dozen of each of the four grenade types (sleep gas, poison gas, fragmentation, and incendiary) and 12 power discs are plainly visible on a bench. See appendix C for more information on these devices.
The closed metal boxes lining the walls are locked and contain a total of 100 additional grenades of each type and 200 power discs. These boxes can be opened by plac- ing a red card in their lock slots. The boxes can be forced open with magical weapons. There is 1 in 6 chance per weapon’s magical “plus” per round of forcing the chest (ie. a +2 dongsword has a 2 in 6 chance of forcing the chest each round it strikes the box).
Development. Any attempt to remove weapons or pow- er discs openly will result in an attack by police robots regardless of color card presented, but whatever can be hidden away can be gained. A police robot (see appen- dix B) will check on activities within the arsenal once every minute!
AREA 10 - MOTIONLESS FEMALE FORM
A motionless and beautiful human female dressed in curious silvery clothing lies on the floor. No signs of injury are apparent on her body, but itis impossible to tell if she is dead or merely unconsctons.
The woman is in reality a berserk, malfunctioning an- droid (see appendix B). It is armed with a 2-foot-long metal bar and a fully charged paralysis pistol (see appen- dix C), hidden on the far side of its recumbent body.
When any creature comes within 20 feet, the android springs up and attacks with the paralysis pistol. There- after, it will use the bar if opponents are within range,
or the pistol otherwise. Use the following attacks for the android:
Multiattack: The android makes two metal bar at- tacks.
Metal Bar: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
Paralysis Pistol: The pistol fires a 60-foot cone and all creatures in the cone must succeed on a DC 10 Consti- tution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on a successful save. Creatures who succeed on their Constitution saving throw when initially struck by the paralysis pistol are slowed as per the s/ow spell. They can attempt a DC 10 Wisdom sav- ing throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the slowed effect on a successful save.
Aside from the paralysis pistol and metal bar, the android has nothing of value. Its silvery clothing is merely nor- mal if futuristic garments with no special properties.
AREA 11 - MEETING ROOMS
A long table runs down the center of this room. Bent metal panels and twisted cords pulled from within are set into the tabletop. Over- turned and damaged chairs lie on the stained floor next to a number of skeletons dressed in tattered, ancient rags.
The bent metal panel and cords were once communica- tion devices set into the table, their wiring now pulled free. There is nothing of value in any of the rooms, and anything loose has been taken away.
AREA 12 - OVERLOOKED BLASTER PISTOL
This weapon is laying amidst the debris on the floor! It was dropped here in the chaotic final days of the plague and has remained overlooked since then. It has a full power disc (6 charges). Blaster pistols are described fully in appendix C.
Noticing the blaster pistol requires a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. If no one notices the blaster, there is a 2% chance per person passing through that it will be stepped on and ruined. Check each passerby separately.
AREA 13 —- RADIATION AREAS
A green glow seems to pulse from the contents of this room as if everything in it was under some eerie magical effect.
Each of these rooms is radiation-filled and contains con- taminants which are hazardous to living creatures. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these ar- eas may be subject to radiation sickness. These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1) x 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and los- es another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condition. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation serum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
AREA 14 - DISPLACER BEASTS
A olindrical chamber about 20 feet in diameter stands near the center of this area. Its interior is accessible by a pair of open arch- ways facing one another on opposite sides of the chamber. Within the cylinder, a pair of wide bands bearing metal handles spaced 8 feet apart run vertically down the other two walls. A large pile of rags, dried husks, and other debris lies to the southeast of the cylindrical chamber.
A pack of five displacer beasts den here. If there are more than 10 persons in sight, there is a 60% chance that the displacer beasts will flee unless they have been sur- prised. Once engaged, they will fight to the death.
Treasure. Amidst the litter of their nest area is a brown
color card.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 15- MED 1
An attractive-looking human female dressed in a strange garment occupies this room. Long, tall benches run along the perimeter of the chamber beneath several raised, open cubbyholes. A couple of bed-like tables stand in rows down the center of the room.
Show Handout #10. This is an emergency treatment room with a female android (see appendix B). She will automatically treat any wounded human who enters, us- ing a wound healing canister (see appendix C) that has 5 charges left. Each use heals 13 (2d12) hit points of damage.
If asked, the android nurse will give an injection which will cure all diseases, neutralize poison, or counter radia- tion poisoning. Note that requests must be in a language understandable to the android, mainly Alien Common. If attacked the android will not fight back nor summon any aid.
The bed-like tables are simple treatment tables without additional properties. The open cubbyholes once held medical supplies, but where stripped during the plague of anything useful.
AREA 16 - MED 2
A handsome human male dressed in a strange garment is present in this room.A table rests nearby with a large and somewhat cylindri- cal object standing beside it. A number of metal rods ending with curious and somewhat terrifying items protrude from the cylinder.
Show Handout #11. This is the emergency operating room, and a malfunctioning android (see appendix B) is on hand to “greet” anyone entering. It approaches a random PC and attempts to perform surgery on them.
The android attempts to grapple, anesthetize, and oper- ate upon whomever is grabbed first. It has the following attacks which replace an android’s normal offensive ac- tions and increase its challenge rating to 5 (1,800 XP): Restraining Hold: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: The target is grappled (escape DC 13) and is restrained if it’s a Medium or smaller creature. If the target is restrained, the android can make its Anesthetize attack as a bonus action. The android can only grapple and restrain one creature at a time.
Anesthetize: The target must succeed on a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw or be knocked unconscious for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARHATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Perform Surgery: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one incapacitated humanoid restrained by the android. Hit: 55 (10d10) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the android kills the target by surgically removing a vital organ.
The room contains only the operating table and a diag- nostic device that assists during surgical procedures. The android carries five hypodermic syringes each containing an anesthetic. Any creature injected with the substance is affected as if struck by the android’s Anesthetize attack.
AREA 17 —- PHASE SPIDERS
The sound of dripping water echoes through the air. A small pool has formed on the ground, fed by leaking pipes somewhere in the web-covered ceiling above.
A small group of three dwarf phase spiders (see ap- pendix B) lives here, ambushing prey that comes to drink from the pool. Two of the dwarf phase spiders are newly hatched and have 10 hit points each. The third is an adult with typical stats.
Treasure. Caught in the spiderwebs near the ceiling is a jet black card. In the pool of water beneath are seven small gem bearings, beryls worth 100 gp each.
AREA 18 —- SHIP COMMANDER’S
QUARTERS
A_ comfortable-looking common area is found here, filled with couches, stuffed chairs, small tables, and colorful decorations on the walls, Four skeletons dressed in rags lie prone on the floor, seemingly left where they fell. The room appears in disarray as if abandoned with great haste.
This room is part of a five-room suite that served as the apartment for the commander and his family. Everything therein is disordered from the frantic plague days, but nothing has been looted. This room is the living room and reception area, with couches, arm chairs, small ta- bles, paintings, etc., none of which have any value.
AREA 18A —- COMMANDER’S
PERSONAL CHAMBER
A comfortable if Spartan bedchamber is located beyond this door. A wide bed, small tables, and stuffed chair take up half the room. A small desk, its top duttered with papers and other objects, rests near a closed door on the other side of the room.
This room was left intact after the commander vanished on Level II in pursuit of the intellect devourer (see Level II, area 1). The desk contains mostly paperwork, writ- ing implements, microfilm spools, and other interesting if worthless objects. There is a locked security safe con- cealed in one of the desk drawers that is keyed to the thumb print of the commander. It can now be opened only by lasering the lock mechanism (using either a laser drill or a laser pistol and expending 6 charges).
The door in the southwest corner leads to the command- er’s closet and storage area. The door resembles others, but instead of a color card slot, there is a glass plate with the outline of a human hand on it. The door is locked and keyed to the commander's hand print. The lock mecha- nism can be caused to malfunction in the same manner as the door locks in the security cells (see area 25A).
A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check notices six color cards shoved into a stack of papers. There is one of each type of jet black, brown, violet, yellow, or- ange, and red color card present. Inside the security safe are orders regarding the ship’s destination and activities, 100 plastic encased diamonds worth 100 gp each (these are emergency coins), and a strange packet made from an unknown flexible metal-like material with a small rectan- gular glass protrusion set into its side. This is a Kevlar se- curity documents pouch with a thumb printlock keyed to the commander’s thumb. Attempting to open the packet causes it to explode. The blast affects a 10-foot radius around the packet, causing all those in the area to make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. Those who fail the sav- ing throw suffer 49 (9d10) fire damage, while those who succeed take only half as much damage. The opener of the packet has disadvantage on their saving throw. The explosion destroys all the sensitive documents inside.
AREA 18B - COMMANDER’S CLOSET AND STORAGE ROOM
This small room contains mostly oddly-tailored clothes hanging on racks and a number of narrow doors set into the walls. A reflective
alass-faced box hangs on the wall.
This closet and storage space contains mostly clothing in fair shape and other worthless junk. The glass-faced box is a lavatory cabinet containing two capsules of cyanide. Anyone consuming one of the capsules must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, suffering 66 (12d10) poi- son damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Treasure. A search through the narrow doors (actually clothing drawers) uncovers a needler pistol with four am- munition clips (see appendix C).
AREA 18C —- PRIVATE LOUNGE AND DINING AREA
A pair of soft couches rest at one end of this room. The other side contains a large oval table surrounded by chairs resembling opened seed pods perched atop a single leg. A half-dozen crystal flagons or bottles sparkle on a sideboard near the table.
This room is nicely furnished and appointed. All is intact. On a sideboard are six crystal flasks of rare spirituous liquors. Their effects if consumed are:
* The first flask is now deadly poison. Anyone drinking it must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, tak- ing 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
* The second, third, and fourth flasks are still excellent and intoxicating. Anyone sampling these spirits must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. If the saving throw is failed, the drinker insists the party remains here and takes a short rest so that they can enjoy more of the excellent liquor.
* The fifth flask temporarily gives the drinker advantage on all Dexterity-based actions and saving throws for 10 minutes per 1 ounce consumed. Consuming mul- tiple ounces prolongs the duration of the bonus. The flask holds 20 ounces initially.
* The sixth flask tastes excellent but will cause double vision 10 minutes after drinking it if the drinker fails a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. This double vision lasts for 30 minutes and imparts disadvantage on the drinker when making attack rolls, while attacks against the drinker have advantage. Any method that cures poison will also end the double vision effect.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 18D - MASTER BEDROOM
Ai large bed and many chests-of-drawers reside in this neat but clearly long unused room. A low table flanked by chairs stands close to the door, a small tin statuette of a curious-looking boat resting atop it.
This room is an unremarkable master bedroom. There are many drawers of clothing and the like, but there is nothing of value in them.
Treasure. The tin boat is in truth a commendation de- picting a platinum spaceship (1,000 gp). A DC 11 Intel- ligence (Investigation) check reveals the “tin” is actually precious metal.
AREA 18E — COMMANDER’S WIFE’S RETREAT
This room contains a soft divan facing several lounge chairs. Also present are a dressing table and small desk, both of which display a feminine touch. A skeleton lies on the divan, its shoes removed and a cup held loosely in one bony hand.
This is the personal retreat of the commander’s wife. She took her own life with a cyanide capsule in the last frenzied days of the plague and her bones lie here undis- turbed. The desk and dressing table contain cosmetics, personal items, stationery, and other worthless bric-a- brac.
Treasure. Behind the dressing table is a jewelry case with four rings (50 gp, 300 gp, 750 gp, and 2,000 gp, respectively), six bracelets (four are worth 600 gp; two are worth 1,000 gp), and three necklaces (total of 4,000 gp). One of the necklaces is set with seven aquamarines worth 500 gp each. A shoe near the skeleton hides her gray color card.
AREA 19 —- SECURITY CHIEF’S
QUARTERS
Odd-looking chairs resembling the ends of ladles are arranged around an octagonal glass table in the center of this room. Com- fortable divans and smaller tables rest near the walls. The floor is covered with a rose-colored material, soft to the touch. A rag-dressed skeleton lies splayed out on one of the divans.
This suite of rooms is also basically intact and served as the security chief’s quarters. This main room is a living/ reception room. There is one skeleton in the place, but
nothing of value.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 19A —- PERSONAL LOUNGE
AND DINING AREA
A glass table surrounded by six odd chairs occupies the far end of this room. A smaller table with plump, rounded sacks the size of large chests sits closer to the door. There is a bottle with six sinuously-curved glasses atop a buffet near the larger table.
This lounge and dining area is in good condition. The plump, rounded sacks are settees similar to beanbag chairs. (The DM can have some fun getting the players to believe they could be alien life-forms...)
A bottle of liquor on the buffet is treated with a drug to cause persons imbibing it to tell the absolute truth for 1 minute if they fail a DC 15 Constitution saving throw when drinking it. One dose is equal to 1 ounce, and there are 7 ounces left in the bottle. (DM, here is your chance to sow some dissension...)
AREA 19B —- CHIEF’S OFFICE
A U-shaped table with small boxy protrusions and a neat pile of dusty papers dominates this room. Three chairs, one inside the U of the table and the other two outside and facing it, are also present. A tall set of shelves holds a variety of books bound in colorful glossy
materials.
This was the security chief’s personal office and study. The desk is equipped with no longer functional commu- nications and monitoring consoles and indecipherable paperwork detailing security protocols and events during the last days of the plague.
The books on the bookcase are hardback with plastic covers and detail a variety of topics beyond the party’s understanding and are worthless to them (although they might be of interest to a sage). There is a press panel on the side of the desk that can be noticed with a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. Pressing the panel causes the door to spring open, revealing its contents.
Treasure. The press panel compartment holds three orange cards and a blaster pistol whose power disc has shorted and ruined it so as to make it permanently un- workable.
AREA 19C —- DRESSING ROOM
Racks of strangely tailored clothes, most of which have gone to rags due to time and neglect, fill this chamber. Several closed wardrobes are present along the walls.
This dressing room is filled with clothes in poor condi- tion and with nothing else of apparent value. There are two intact uniforms in a wall wardrobe.
AREA 19D - MASTER BEDROOM
A wide, disheveled bed with a pair of small tables on either side of it occupies this room. A skeleton lies here, sprawled on the floor near the bed. Small piles of rags, perhaps once clothes, are scattered across the floor as if thrown aside in haste.
Under one pile of rags is a small metal box with two but- tons (orange and red in color), a dial, and a grille. It is a command control for police robots, but the voice com- mand is keyed to the chief, so it is useless. If the orange and red buttons are pressed simultaneously, all police ro- bots within 30 feet are shut off until the control box is beyond this range. If either button is pressed separately, it will call police robots (one if orange is pushed, two if the red button is used)—or release those shut down. It can be used only seven times before it malfunctions and is ruined.
AREA 20 —- WILL-O’-WISPS’ LAIR
Large, boxy devices—all clearly damaged—are present in this room. The floor is littered with shiny debris: eating utensils, bits of metal, reflective material, and other gleaming objects are present among the glittering mess. A soft white glow comes from inside of one of the damaged box-like devices.
Three will-o’-wisps make this room their lair, lurking inside the broken computer terminals that fill this room. There is a 2 in 6 chance that one or two will be away (roll for each separately) roaming the corridors to the east but will return after 2 minutes.
These creatures will attempt to lure victims to one of the radiation areas (area 13). If the party follows them and succumbs to radiation poisoning, the will-o’-wisps then attack once their victims are at a disadvantage. If they are unsuccessful at luring victims away, they take more direct action and attack immediately. The will-o’-wisps flee if they take dire wounds, using their invisibility to escape. They may return later to ambush the party if the PCs remain on this level.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Treasure. These monsters have a collection of shiny materials (stainless steel tableware, reflectors, chrome fit- tings, etc.). Amongst this collection are two 100 gp gems, six 50 gp gems, and a plastic tubular instrument—this device is 8 inches long and about 3 in diameter, a lan- guage translator (see appendix C). The current power disc has 3 charges. Note that all treasure is mixed up in a jumble of junk, broken computer parts, and the like and requires 10 minutes of sifting through the debris to pick out the valuables. One or more will-o’-wisps may arrive while the party is sorting the mess...
AREA 21 - SHRIEKING HALLWAY
This corridor has been transformed into a garden of sorts, its floor covered with piles of decomposed vegetable matter and soil. Large mushrooms sprout from the humus, partially blocking the passage- way. Smaller fung are visible growing from the soil beyond them.
The vegepygmies in area 22 grow fungi here to eat and raise shriekers to serve as a warning system for them. The vegepygmies know how to move around the shriek- ers without causing them to sound off, but are ready for trouble whenever the fungi begin their wailing. Six shriekers are at each of the positions labeled 21 on the map while the other edible fungi grow in a humus layer spread along the length of the passage.
Development. Causing the shriekers to scream alerts the vegepygmies in all the various sections of area 22 and they are unable to be surprised. There is a 50% chance a party of vegepygmies from the room(s) closest to the noise comes to investigate the alarm. (See area 22 for details.) Otherwise, the vegetable creatures stay in place, hoping to ambush intruders coming into their lair.
AREA 22 - NORTHERN VEGEPYGMY TRIBE
DM Note: Each of these rooms uses the same descrip- tion but the DM should elaborate on the material provid- ed to make each room slightly different than its neighbor.
Whatever purpose this room had is now obscured by the mess that now fills it. Rags, broken bits of machinery, fungi stems, and nest- Like piles of vegetable and cloth matter spill everywhere. There ts a rank smell in the air, like moldering vegetation left too long in the dark.
Each of these rooms serves as a den to the ship’s north- ern vegepygmy tribe. These creatures sprang up from radiation-twisted hydroponic cultures that affected ex-
posed humans, but they are now able to bud and propa- gate. Weapons are fashioned from material aboard the vessel and are crude but effective.
The number of vegepygmies living in each room is de- pendent on the size of the chamber. Use the following key to determine how many enemies are present in each room in area 22. (See appendix B for stats on all these creatures.)
Area Encounter
22A 10 vegepygmies and 6 vegepygmy elite 22B 8 vegepygmies and 4 vegepygmy elite 22C 10 vegepygmies and 8 vegepygmy elite
22D 14 vegepygmies and 10 vegepygmy elite
Development. The vegepygmies act in concert, and if fighting occurs, a call will always go out for their fel- lows to join the battle if the combatants survive the ini- tial round of combat. Vegepygmies from the next clos- est room arrive 1d4 rounds after the call has gone out. Those from the next closest area arrive 1d4 rounds after the first reinforcements and so on, until potentially the entire tribe is engaged. It is very easy for a party to be overwhelmed by numbers and a wise group will retreat if facing off against all the occupants of this area.
Treasure. Each vegepygmy elite has a jet black card. The normal vegepygmies have nothing of value.
AREA 22E —- VEGEPYMGY CHIEF
This chamber contains a high pile of the softest, filthiest rags and rugs, with several smaller nests arranged along the walls, A ban- quet table laden with horn-like plates and cups is spread out in one area, the trenchers covered with fungi stalks and malodorous goop.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
This is the location of the vegepygmy chief and its five vegepygmy elite guards (see appendix B for both). The chief conducts its court from the high pile of rags protected by its guards. The banquet table holds their meals—harvested fungi from area 21 and unheated dis- pensed foodstuffs from the nearest kitchen’s food dis- penser—displayed on looted plastic plates.
Development. If a battle occurs within 50 feet of the chief’s lair, there is a 20% chance per 10 feet of proxim- ity (50 feet = 20%, 40 feet = 40%, 30 feet = 60%, 20 feet = 80%, and 10 feet = 100%) that the leader will bring out one of the weapons it has hoarded (but fears to use). Roll on the following table to determine what those weapons (see appendix C for details) are:
D6 Vegepygmy Chief’s Weapon
1-2. Two sleep gas grenades
} Explosive grenade
4-5 Laser pistol with 4 charges remaining.*
6 Blaster rifle with 2 charges remaining.*
*On an attack roll of a natural 1 or 2 by the vegepygmy chief when using this weapon, the weapon malfunctions and becomes totally useless.
Treasure. The vegepygmy chief has orange and vio- let color cards. If the vegepygmy chief didn’t bring out one of its weapons during a fight, a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check notices that the grille to an air vent in this room appears loose. The weapon(s) are located inside the vent (determine weapon randomly as above).
AREA 23 -ART WORKROOM
This chamber ts a riot of color—splashes of garish paint in many hues deface the walls, ceiling, and floor. Pieces of broken wood and color-stained canvas litter the ground. Small white objects that resemble flattened slugs are everywhere as are snapped wooden rods adorned with bristles.
This area once served as place to practice artistic pas- times, but it has been looted by the vegepygmies and oth- er of the ship’s occupants. There are pigment tubes (the white flattened slug shapes) strewn here and there, colors splashed on the walls, bits of canvases, broken easel and brush remains, and similar materials in this fore room and in area 23A. Aside from litter, this room contains nothing of value or danger.
AREA 23A —- SCULPTING WORKROOM
Odd shapes, some resembling human forms, while others are bi- zarre abstracts, are positioned about this room. The pieces appear to be a mixture of stone, clay, metal, and another substance resem- bling colored horn. A bust of a human head measuring some 3 feet high dominates the rest of the curious objects. It appears to be made from rotted clay.
This room holds various stone, wood, clay, metal, and plastic sculptures in varying stages of completion (or destruction). It will be noticed that the majority of the wood and metal objects are “decayed,” and that the large bust appears to be leprous, as if it were composed of rotting clay.
Two gray oozes lurk in this room. The “clay” of the bust is actually a gray ooze draped over the actual stone bust beneath it, while the second gray ooze clings to the ceiling above. Anyone approaching the bust will be at- tacked by both oozes.
Treasure. The bust covered by the ooze has two gem eyes (500 gp topazes).
AREA 24 - DOPPELGANGER PACK
A olindrical chamber about 20 feet in diameter stands in the cent- er of this area. Its interior ts accessthle by a pair of open archways facing one another on opposite sides of the chamber. Within the cylinder, a pair of wide bands bearing metal handles spaced 8 feet apart run vertically down the other two walls.
A pack of nine doppelgangers lurk around this area, alert for anyone approaching the drop tube.
Development. If the doppelgangers hear creatures ap- proaching, they hide near the drop chute. The arrows on the map indicate their possible hiding places. The dop- pelgangers wait until creatures are using the tube, and then attack those still awaiting their turn.
Treasure. Although the doppelgangers have no treasure, the drop tube still bears a poster on its north outer wall showing the location of this tube and the other three as circles on a general outline map of the whole level. Tube procedures and safety measures are printed in Al- ien Common underneath the map, and these instructions can be read with magical aid. Included are statements to the effect that unauthorized persons are not to enter ser- vice deck areas.
AREA 25 —- POLICE HQ
Ai rectangular room with doors to the north and south is present here. Three curtous altars or plinths occupy the room. Strange metal olinders with claw-tipped arms and segmented tentacles go about performing uncanny duties.
Show Handout #25. There will be 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) in the first room of this complex. They will inquire what the nature of business of any entrant is, and the language will be totally unintelligible without some scientific or magical means of understanding, al- though the robots can translate the characters’ speech after 10 minutes.
There is a locked metal chest in the corner farthest from the cells for storing weapons and riot control gear. It can be opened by placing a gray or red card in its lock slot. The chest can be forced open with magical weapons. There is 1 in 6 chance per weapon’s magical “plus” per round of forcing the chest (i.e. a +2 /ongsword has a 2 in 6 chance of forcing the chest each round it strikes the box).
Developments. The robots will attempt to apprehend the characters and place them in the security cells (area 25A) for detention and questioning by a “proper author- ity” unless the party has a red, gray, or orange card to show.
At various times robots will leave, so at some point with- in 2 hours there will be only one robot present, but there isa 1 in 12 chance of another entering every 10 minutes thereafter.
Treasure. The metal chest contains two gas masks, 12 sleep gas grenades, and two needler pistols with one clip of ammunition for each. See appendix C for information on these devices.
The first police robot disabled/destroyed here by the party will have a red card stored in its chest compart- ment, but it will have to be pried out carefully. Doing so requires a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. If the check fails with a resulting total roll of 5 or less, the card is broken while being pried out and no longer func- tions.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 25A —- SECURITY CELLS
Six 10-foot-by-10-foot rooms line a central corridor, three to a side. The rooms all lack. doors and are open facing the corridor. A number of small studs line both the floor and ceiling of the entrance to each room and a small post with a slot seen elsewhere on doors stands in the center of each open entrance.
Each cell has a computer-controlled feeding device in it that turns out drinkable liquids but indigestible food. The cells have walls on three sides while across the front there is a row of short projecting studs on both the top and the bottom of the entrance. In the center of this “wall” is a small post with a card lock similar to those found on other doors. Below this is a button and a dial that control the force screen. When a cell is in use, the force screen will be turned on and an invisible wall will radiate in the area between the studs. The cell locks (lo- cated in the post) operate by inserting a red, gray, or or- ange color card.
The force screen is identical to a wall of force but with an unlimited duration. Only shutting off the force screen with the appropriate color card, a disintegrate spell, or causing the control post to malfunction will bring the screen down once it has been activated.
Inflicting cold damage to the force screen control post has a 10% chance of causing a lock to malfunction. Fire- balls and magic missiles have a 50% chance of breaking the lock, and dealing lightning damage has a 10% chance per die of damage of destroying the post’s functioning.
DM Note: The northeastern cell (marked with an “X” on the map) may be sealed and contain other objects of interest if the DM so chooses. See Level I, area 25A in chapter 6 for more information on what might lie within this holding cell if the player characters explore this area.
Development. Any creatures apprehended by the police robots on the ship are brought to this place for incarcera- tion. The robots place as few prisoners in each cell as possible, and leave them there for detention and ques- tioning by a “proper authority.” Of course, there are no “proper authorities” anymore, and prisoners will starve to death unless they escape or are rescued.
The robots will not take away any gear from prisoners unless the item was used to attack one of their number or is a weapon they are familiar with (pistols, etc.).
AREA 25B —- SECURITY CHIEF’S OFFICE
The room to the south of the HQ can be entered only bya red color card. If the door is opened, show Handout #12. The party sees the following:
A skeletal figure dressed in outlandish clothing sits slumped in a chair behind a curved table..A chair resembling the end of a ladle faces the skeleton and the strange box-like object beside it. Glass- faced boxes containing flickering snow or mist hang above the table and a closed metal wardrobe rests nearby.
It is the office of the former chief security officer. His uniformed skeleton still sits behind the desk, but it has nothing—no card or weapon. Built into the desk is a monitoring console (use Handout #13 to illustrate the console) with an off/on switch, a 56-position slider (keyed to each former level of the ship—positions 11- 16 now show Levels I-VI of this module, and 17 shows Level VI if the DM is using that level), and three dials (100s, 10s, 1s) which show specific rooms on each level (and naturally the room key is long since gone). Close-up lenses are malfunctioning, so only wide-angle views of rooms (or the four corners of areas larger than 50 feet square) are available. Dark areas have infrared lens view- ing, but only one in six of these lenses still function.
The room also has the personal locker of the chief. This is locked and can be opened in the same fashion as the metal chest in Police HQ (area 25).
Development. If the party manages to figure out how to operate the monitoring console, they can bring up im- ages from random locations throughout the ship. Many of these will be images of bare corridors, empty rooms, or other innocuous locales. Each round the console is operated, the operator rolls 1d20. On a roll of 13 or bet- ter, the monitor brings up a helpful image of the DM’s choosing; he should either pick a handout from those provided or give a brief description of one of the keyed areas of the spaceship. Illustrations or descriptions of areas likely to entice the party to further investigation are suggested. There is a cumulative 1% chance per round it is used that the monitoring console totally malfunctions.
Treasure. In the locker are:
* The rags of a full dress uniform upon which are sev- eral gem-encrusted medals (three pieces of jewelry worth 1d4 x 1,000 gp each).
+ A blaster pistol on full charge (see appendix C).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
* A suit of powered armor (see appendix C) that had a malfunction which was to be repaired but was not be- fore the disaster wiped out the crew; this armor func- tions as follows (roll a d4):
1. Normal for 1 minute, then freezes into immobil- ity for 5 minutes, and then roll again.
2. Short circuits dealing 10 (3d6) lightning dam- age to the wearer; the person must immediately remove the armor, for he or she will sustain like damage each round thereafter, and after 10 rounds the suit will be totally destroyed; removal causes 10 (3d6) lightning damage as above.
3. Crossed circuitry causes the suit to behave errat- ically (roll a d10), so that the wearer moves back- ward on a 1 or 2, moves sideways on a 3 (left) or 4 (right), falls over on a 5, leaps 10 feet ahead on a 6, behaves normally on 7-9, but on a 10 the built-in laser pistol (right arm) fires ahead while the armor remains motionless.
4. The suit’s fluid systems ignite and cause a deadly gas to fill the suit, so the wearer must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) poison damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the suit is removed, this gas fills the 10-foot-square area immediately around it, and the next round fills a 20-foot-radius area. Saves outside the suit are made with advantage. If a small green canister is taken from the locker wall, pointed at the suit, and a tab pulled, it will cover the suit with a foam which will instantly neutralize the gas.
AREA 26 —- MEDICAL AREAS
Ai soft, calm voice speaking an unrecognizable language seems to come from nowhere in this room, which contains only simple fur- nishings and colorful hangings on the walls. A corridor leads fur- ther into the area, disappearing around a corner.
This area is the main medical records office and exami- nation clinic and is located in the central complex square along with other vital services. A robotic recording in- structs anyone entering to come back tomorrow, as all personnel are absent; emergency cases can report to MED 1 or MED 2 (areas 15 and 16, respectively) for at- tention. All of this will be in a totally incomprehensible language unless a translation device or spell is used.
There are three undisturbed desks here: two are in the easternmost room and a single desk is in the western- most area. Searching the desks and succeeding on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check turns up a yellow card, but as soon as a desk is touched an alarm will sound.
The central two rooms are examination rooms. Both have been looted and only interesting, but worthless, objects—wheeled examination tables, chairs, a smashed wheelchair, etc—remain.
Development. If the alarm is sounded, a police robot (see appendix B) appears in this area 1 minute later. This will only happen once.
AREA 27—-SMALL ARMS LOCKER
Note that it requires a gray card to enter. The place is made of plasteel, and it cannot be broken into except with a laser drill. Show Handout #14.
This is a narrow room with a central aisle running down its length. Open cubicles flank the passage. One cubicle is sealed. Three closed boxes rest at the end of the aisle.
The locker is partially stripped, but still inside are racks and containers of: 10 needler pistols, eight paralysis pis- tols, four laser pistols, two laser rifles, and one blaster rifle.
There are three boxes each containing 20 grenades, one type per box: sleep gas, incendiary, and fragmentation.
A fully operational suit of power armor is in a closed and locked locker (at the end of a row of seven opened ones). Also in this locker is a locked metal chest that holds 20 power discs and 20 needler clips.
The locker and metal chest can be opened by placing a gray or red card in their lock slots or they can be forced open with magical weapons. There is 1 in 6 chance per weapon’s magical “plus” per round of forcing the locker ot chest (i.e. a +2 /ongsword has a 2 in 6 chance of forcing the lock each round it is struck).
See the appendix C for details on these items.
AREA 28 - COMPUTER CENTRAL
In the center of the room is what appears to be an altar. It is sup- ported by a single metal column and its two arms are bent tomards the door. The wall opposite the door is made entirely of glass, al- though this is too dark to see through. There are three skeletons sprawled near the altar.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Show Handout #15. If the party moves closer to the “altar” and inspects it further, show Handout #16 and read the following:
In the center of the altar are six fist-sized circular windows, three coin-sized holes below them, and a single metal box under these. To the left of these weird adornments are 10 small blocks set in grooves, and to the right are two rows of rivets. The wings of the altar are decorated with panels of small glass squares set in rows.
This is one of the terminals and is now only in touch with a smaller auxiliary computer. The circular windows are dials, the holes beneath them view screen controls, and the metal box under them is the view screen master switch. The small blocks in the grooves are sliders and the rivets are buttons. The small glass squares are the key console. The entire glass wall of the chamber is a viewing screen and will show a picture when the master switch is thrown.
The large master switch will turn on the visual display screen above the control panel, while a mechanical voice will begin to relate what is being shown and report on the state of the ship in that area—all in Alien Common, of course. The recessed controls are three buttons: OFF, HOLD, CLOSE-UP. Pressing them will either shut off the view screen, freeze the current image on the screen, or amplify the image for a closer look.
Pictures flash on and off in 1-round increments, provid- ing a fleeting vision of various parts of the ship. Twenty images are seen before the screen cycles back, taking 2 minutes to complete its circuit. The DM can choose what areas of the ship are briefly glimpsed on the screen, using the included illustrations or physical descriptions most likely to entice the players to further explore the ship and, if feeling kindly, hint at what dangers might await them...
There is also a 120-key console for input along with eight switches, 10 sliders, six dials, and 10 buttons. If any of the buttons, levers, etc. are depressed, moved, or what- ever, the russet mold culture at Lab B (area 31B) will be fed, and one of the following will result (roll a d12):
D12
Event
Minor fire: A portion of the computer con- sole sparks and catches fire. An automatic sys- tem immediately sprays a chemical extinguisher upon it and puts it out, a green light blinks, and a worker robot (see appendix B) will come in 1d3 x 10 minutes to repair the damage. (This result also has ramifications on Level VII if the DM is incorporating that new level into the dungeon. See Level VII, area 19 in chapter 6 for further information.)
Ship lights brighten/dim: Any illuminated section of the ship becomes dim illumination, while dark and dim areas become brightly lit. If the sleep (dark) period isin progress, the lights willdim again automatically in 10 minutes. View screen malfunction: The view screen goes blank if in operation or will not activate if currently off. Green and amber lights blink on the console, indicating repair and police ro- bots are on their way. The screen is out until repaired. Both a worker robot and a police robot (see appendix B for both) are due in 1d3 minutes.
Cargo displacement/unloading ordered: Worker robots in the cargo bay (Level VI, area 16) discharge their cargo (the bulette in stasis) while the screen displays this activity. (The DM should show Handout #52 at this time). Note that the bulette will not be present in the area if later explored, but could be encountered by the party after leaving the spaceship. Anti-gravity in control room: Treat as reverse gravity for 1 round, then gravity returns (a 10- foot fall for most characters), and the comput- et acts as noted in #1 above. A successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw allows a creature to catch hold of the console and avoid drifting to the ceiling and avoiding the fall on the subse- quent round.
Close and lock all doors: All doors on the ship seal and pink and amber lights flash on the console. This is a security alert measure which will bring four police robots (see appendix B) to the computer central room in 1 minute un- less #7 or #10 occurs.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
sd Unlock doors: Security alert canceled; pink and amber lights go out.
8 Android power override: All power to an- droids shut off/on.
9 Worker robot power override: All power to worker robots shut off/on.
10 Police robot power override: All power to
police robots shut off/on.
a Drop tubes sealed: All power shut off/on for tubes and lifts.
12 Full alert: All doors and sphincters shut and locked; red lights flash; alarm sounds at 10-sec- ond intervals; sleep gas (as the grenade; see ap- pendix C) will be pumped into the central com- plex of rooms 1 minute after the alarm begins; four police robots and two worker robots (see appendix B for both) will enter the com- puter room 1 minute after the gas is dispensed; only a gray card slipped into a slot in the con- sole and the action noted in #7 will cancel the alert.
Once it has been discovered what a particular control will do, the control will always have the same results.
Development. Any attempt to destroy computer-related equipment in this area will result in #12 above, with ro- bots attempting to kill all unidentified creatures without gray or red color cards found in the computer room.
AREA 29 —- STORES
Ai large number of crates and containers, each made from some hard horn-like substance, are stacked in this room. They range in size from small coffers to massive barrels. They appear untouched and long neglected.
This small central emergency stores compartment is the only stocked room of its kind on the ship. There are vari- ous crates and containers of materials which are totally unrecognizable and useless by the party.
Searching the room for useful supplies takes 10 minutes per attempt and requires a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. On a failed check, the character wastes 10 minutes rummaging through the containers and discovers only unrecognizable and useless materials. The DM is free to indulge their imagination when describing these alien and indecipherable objects.
Ona successful check, the DM should either rolla d8 or choose an entry from the following list of supplies. Each entry can only be found once. Reroll duplicate results. Once all eight entries are found, nothing more of interest remains in the storeroom.
D8 Item(s) Discovered
1 Cases containing 20 days’ worth of ship’s rations (see appendix C)
2 Cases containing 20 days’ worth of ship’s rations (see appendix C)
3 Cases containing 20 days’ worth of ship’s rations (see appendix C)
4 Cases containing 20 days’ worth of ship’s rations (see appendix C)
5 Cases containing 20 days’ worth of ship’s rations (see appendix C)
6 Packet of 12 ampules containing four ampules each of the following: cure disease, poison anti- dote, and radiation antidote
7 Container holding 14 wound healing canisters (see appendix C). Only six still have medicine re- maining, however. A functioning canister has 1d6
charges remaining. 8 Small brown box with violet labels on it; this is a repair robot remote control box (see appendix C)
AREA 30 - LIBRARY
This room isin better shape than others so far explored. It contains many small, fixed tables and comfortable if odd-looking chairs. Atop each table is a strange metal and glass box with small protru- sions, rivets, and cylinders attached to it. Rows of metal boxes with small doors line the walls of the room.
This library is not in terrible shape because there is noth- ing in it to interest the vegepygmies—the worst looters, of course. In addition to the simple furnishings, it holds 24 microfilm viewers. The microfilm storage cabinets are sealed and maintained by the computer and cannot be opened by any means short of a laser drill.
There are a total of four skeletons here. One skeleton lies beneath a table. This one has rags of what was obviously a uniform, with braid and colorful attachments (medals and ribbons) which will clue the inquisitive character that the wearer was an important person. There is a sealed cabinet behind this skeleton, and a corner of a gray card is peeping out from beneath this storage box. The card is noticed with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception)
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
check. There are only three other (unremarkable) skeletal remains in the whole place.
Six of the microfilm viewers are still operational and will show something if the switch is thrown and the char- acter looks into the viewing section. For 10 minutes, a viewer will show either totally unintelligible writing and diagrams (alien and technical), views of stars, planets, and other similar things, or pictures of alien life-forms (none of which are useful as they are not included in the kinds taken aboard).
After this time, there is a 1 in 6 chance that the viewer will begin showing schematics of Levels I, III, and V. All of the viewers operate at a fast rate, so when these appear describe the scene as a circular form with many lines, marks, and colors upon it. Allow the players to ask up to six questions about what they see, giving them up to 1 minute of real time to examine or inquire about the displayed level. After showing each level there is a 1 in 6 chance of the viewer breaking, and after showing Level V it will positively break. Only one of the viewers will show the levels; attempts to view them with other mi- crofilm viewers after the first breaks fail to bring up the schematics of the ship.
AREA 31 - LABORATORIES
These rooms were the special research facilities for bi- ological, biochemical, and chemical projects related to alien life-forms, and eventually were used to stop the plague aboard.
Long worktables covered with odd glass bottles, vials, plates, and other containers of an unidentifiable nature fill this room. A num- ber of small, empty cages are also present.
Those labs without color card-keyed doors are general purpose work areas, and they contain nothing of value or interest except some empty plastiglass retorts, beakers, petri dishes, vials, etc. There are a few smallish cages for animals (which now contain nothing but bones), work counters, and the like.
AREA 31A—-LABA
A cylindrical metal creature with articulated arms and thin gleam- ing tentacles is busy examining the curious glass bottles and large coin-like glass plates on a table in front of it. Other high bench-like tables are arranged about the room, each holding other glass accou- trements and shining metal tools of an ineffable nature.
This room contains a lab technician worker robot (see
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED eo
appendix B) still at work, vainly attempting to find a se- rum to cure the plague which wiped out the ship’s human population a century or so ago. Unknown to the robot, the virus which was the cause of it all died out itself when the last of the human hosts died.
Development. If the party displays a yellow card (or one of higher order) they can help themselves to any- thing in the place. If no proper color card is shown, the party interferes with the robot’s work, or they attack the robot or are destructive, the worker will broadcast a high frequency top-security-priority alarm which will bring 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) in 1 minute.
Treasure. On a countertop are two ampules of poison antidote, three that cure any disease, and a wound healing canister (3 charges left; see appendix C).
AREA 31B —- LAB B
This room was a special hydroponic culture lab. All of the old cultures are dead, but spores of russet mold (see sidebar) still linger in the place. The current state of the room when the party discovers it depends on the PCs’
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
actions during their exploration of the spaceship.
If any use of the computer console (see area 28) has been made prior to entering this lab the computer malfunction factor will have caused it to pump nutrient solution into the tanks to feed the supposed culture. Thus, the room will be packed full of russet mold. In this case, when any door to the place is opened, read the first room descrip- tion below. Otherwise, the room appears as described in the second description.
If the russet mold has been fed:
The door opens and a ghastly avalanche of dense rust-brown mold eo ®
RUSSET MOLD
The fungus known as russet mold is reddish-brown in color and found only in places that are dark, warm, and wet. Russet mold that spreads out across a metal object can be mistaken for natural rust, and a success- ful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check is required to identify it accurately by sight in such a case.
Any creature that comes within 5 feet of russet mold must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw as the mold emits a puff of spores. On a failed save, the creature becomes poisoned. While poisoned in this way, the creature takes 7 (2d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns, sprouting mold as it takes damage. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it- self ona success. Any magic that neutralizes poison or cures disease kills the infestation. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by the mold’s poison damage dies. If the creature is a beast, a giant, or a humanoid, one or more newborn vegepygmies (see appendix B) emerge from its body 24 hours later: one newborn from a Small corpse, two from a Medium corpse, four from a Large corpse, eight from a Huge corpse, and 16 from a Gargantuan corpse.
Russet mold can be hard to kill, since weapons and most types of damage do it no harm. Effects that deal acid, necrotic, or radiant damage kill 1 square foot of russet mold per 1 damage dealt. A pound of salt, a gallon of alcohol, or a magical effect that cures dis- ease kills russet mold in a square area that is 10 feet on a side. Sunlight kills any russet mold in the light’s area.
oe @
pours out of the open door, spilling into the room and onto you!
The russet mold pours over the 10-foot-square (100 square feet) area outside the opened door. Everyone in that area or within 5 feet of it must make a DC 13 Con- stitution saving throw or be exposed to the mold.
If the russet mold is still dormant:
Long worktables covered with odd glass bottles, vials, plates, and other containers of an unidentifiable nature fill this room. Six glass tanks filled with murky liquid rest atop one of the tables. Several flexible straw-like tubes run from the tanks up to the ceiling, van- ishing into it through miniscule holes. A panel covered with small round protrusions and tiny metal squares is set into the wall near the tanks.
The tanks contain the russet mold culture which is inert while in the liquid medium. It remains inert and harmless unless the party meddles with the computer console as described above.
AREA 31C —- LAB C
Rows and rows of shelves, each laden with a vast number of bot- tes, jars, vials, and other containers, each bearing a strip of paper covered in unreadable characters, are present in this room.
A number of chemicals are stored here. Most chemicals are no longer active or have no use to those ignorant of chemistry. Each container is labeled, but unreadable without translating magic or technology. Even if the labels are deciphered, the chemicals are all given their scientific names and will be unidentifiable to even the smartest explorer.
There are more than 100 containers present on the shelves. Searching through the chemicals takes time, but for each 10 minutes spent looking, allow the characters to attempt a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check. If successful, they find a single, still potent chemical from the list below. If all the following chemical are found, further searching is unsuccessful.
D8 Container Chemical’s Effects Type 1 Bottle of
white powder
A defoliant which causes 2d12 acid damage to plant creatures or will absolutely wipe out a 10-foot- square area of vegetation or mold; a total of 10 handfuls of powder are in the bottle.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
wv
Bottle of clear fluid Bottle of clear fluid Bottle of clear fluid Jar of green powder
Jar of pink powder
Ceramic bot- tle of green fluid
A strong acid that causes 3d6 acid damage
A strong acid that causes 3d6 acid damage
A strong acid that causes 3d6 acid damage
Ahighly poisonous chemical. A crea- ture coming into contact with the poison must make a DC 15 Consti- tution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a success- ful one. If the creature touches the poison, the saving throw is made as normal, but the creature has disad- vantage on the saving throw if the powder is tasted.
Contains 36 doses of a chemical that grants darkvision to a range of 90 feet for 1 hour to whom- ever consumes a dose.
The fluid causes plant life to grow. Applying it to a plant crea- ture gives the target 5 (2d4) tem- porary hit points per application that remain until lost or the crea- ture takes a long rest. There are 20 applications in the container. If the entire bottle is used on vegetation, it causes a 10-foot- by-10-foot area to become over- grown as if subjected to a plant growth spell. The vegepygmies will consider this a great treasure and attack to get it, for its odor will drive them to a frenzy at a range of 30 feet or less. Frenzied vege- pygmies have advantage on attack rolls and gain a +2 damage bonus.
8 Ceramic con- tainer of blue fluid
This container is lined with special material and contains an acid that will eat through deck metal in 10 minutes. The entire contents will eat away a 10-foot-diameter sec- tion of the deck; smaller quantities make narrower holes. Only one deck will be dissolved. If used as a weapon, the target suffers 3d10 acid damage in the first round, 2d10 acid damage in the second round, and 1d10 acid damage in the third and final round. A suc- cessful DC 20 Constitution saving throw reduces the damage suf- fered each round by half.
All bottles are made of glass unless otherwise specified.
AREA 32 -SOUTHERN VEGEPYGMY TRIBE
DM Note: Each of these rooms uses the same descrip- tion but the DM should elaborate on the material provid- ed to make each room slightly different than its neighbor.
Several beds with dirty blankets, a small stained settee, and a table littered with filthy dinnerware occupy this chamber. The walls are stained green by mold and the air is fetid with the stink, of milden. A small nest of plant matter lies at the base of one of the beds.
This southern group is slightly different from those in the north with whom they compete (but not usually in combat) in that the members are splotched with patches of green chlorophyll. (See area 22 for the northern tribe.) The southern tribe is slightly more civilized than their northern kin and still make use of the living quarters as originally intended, with the addition of a plant matter nest for their thornies. Their weapons are same as the northern group with the exception of leaders.
As with their northern counterparts, the number of vegepygmies living in each room is dependent on the size of the chamber. Use the following key to determine how many enemies are present in each area 32. (See appendix B for stats on all these creatures.)
Area Encounter 32A 4 vegepygmies, 2 vegepygmy elite, 1 thorny 32B 5 vegepygmies, 3 vegepygmy elite, 1 thorny
32C_ 8 vegepygmies, 4 vegepygmy elite, 1 thorny
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
32D 3 vegepygmy elite, 1 vegepygmy sub-chief (has a yellow card), 3 thornies
32E 5 vegepygmy elite, 1 vegepygmy sub-chief (has a violet card), 4 thornies
32F 2 vegepygmy elite, 1 vegepygmy sub-chief (has a brown card), 2 thornies
Development. The southern group of vegepygmies will not attack without a sub-chief or chief unless they themselves are attacked, and in the latter case they will break off and get away as soon as possible. Thornies are attack-trained and will obey such a command from any southern vegepygmy, fighting to the death.
Treasure. There is a jet black card in the possession of each room group. Each sub-chief also carries a color card, its type noted in the key above.
AREA 32G — VEGEPYMGY CHIEF
A short corridor leads into a large room which may have once been a common area. Now, however, scavenged bits of machinery, near- A-rnined furnishings, colorful but filthy clothing, and other looted odds and ends clutter the room. Some of the furnishings appear used, while others are displayed like weird trophies of battle.
The leader of the southern vegepygmies lairs here. The room is occupied by a vegepygmy chief, four vegep- ygmy elite, and six thornies (see appendix B for all). These high-ranking vegepygmies dress in an array of looted clothing, the more colorful the better, and con- duct themselves as if still human, driven by some nearly forgotten racial memory.
The vegepygmy chief carries a spray can into battle, an aerosol hypnotic with a 5-foot range and 10 uses remain- ing. If a creature sprayed fails a DC 14 Constitution sav- ing throw, it falls into a hypnotic state. While in this state, the creature is both incapacitated and charmed for 1 minute. The target can attempt to make a new Constitu- tion saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effects on a success.
While charmed, the creature can be given commands as if under the effects of a suggestion spell. Note however that the suggestion must be made in a language under- standable to the affected creature. The charmed creature otherwise performs the suggested action as per the spell if it fails a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. A creature under the effects of a suggestion are no longer incapacitated and may act normally within the parameters of the sug- gestion spell.
Treasure. The chief hides its treasure inside a hollow bed frame in the room. This hidden compartment is no- ticed with a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check. Its hoard consists of one red color card, one poison gas grenade, one sleep gas grenade, four gem bearings (100 gp each), and a broken communicator. See appendix C for more on the grenades.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
NtisG am LEVEL ll \™ \
ASCALE SQUARE = 1OFEET
DOOR [+s] PILLARS
BROWN CARD DOOR [R] SPHINCTER
MACHINERY HOLE IN DECK 1
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SE TO HEEL
LEVEL II: SERVICE DECK 5, OR ‘TWEEN DECKS
Show Handout #17 whenever the party enters this or the other ‘tween decks area (Level V).
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA 1 - INTELLECT DEVOURER
There is a 60% chance that this level’s bizarre alien oc- cupantis present in the ‘tween decks when the party first enters the level. If the intellect devourer isn’t present, it is currently in the cargo hold on Level III (see area 11 on that level), but may soon return. Read the following when the party reaches this area and the intellect devour- er is present. Otherwise, ignore the description until they are being stalked...
A sinister feeling overcomes you as if something close by ts watching you with malicious intent.
The intellect devourer is trapped ‘tween decks, for even its great intelligence does not understand the concept of doors operated by color cards. It came to be in this situa- tion as follows: In its early stages, the plague caused insan- ity in the infected person, and in this state the commander of the vessel entered a cargo hold. In his madness, the captain tripped off a stasis field which held a particularly evil form of alien fauna: the intellect devourer.
Freed from its cage, the creature preyed upon the de- mented commander and assumed his form. Some crew- men, still unaffected by the sickness, realized that there was something terribly wrong and organized a hunt for the thing which possessed their captain’s body. One of the hunters soon became the hunted, and the chase even- tually led to the ‘tween decks. The crewman blasted the flesh of the captain’s body away, but the ‘devourer eluded destruction and killed the crewman in return. It was dur- ing this combat that the hole was blasted in the deck, giv- ing access to the cargo hold beneath (see area 6).
Development. The intellect devourer will pick up the thoughts of any person on Level II 10 minutes after their entry, unless it is in the cargo hold on Level III. In the latter event it will emerge in 1 hour and then sense the party’s thoughts. Once thoughts are discovered, the crea- ture will stalk its prey. The intellect devourer will also be drawn to any explosion occurring on this level, arriving 1
minute after it occurs.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 2 -— THE CAPTAIN’S BODY
A skeletal body dressed in rags with curious burned holes in them Les prostrate on the floor here. The skeleton’s arm is still thrust through a strange bracer with two long protrusions.
These are the jumbled bones of the captain, with his la- ser pistol with 4 charges left on the power disc (see ap- pendix C). The dotted line points towards his gray card. A creature succeeding on a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the drab-colored card on the equally drab deck floor.
AREA 3- WHEELY SLED
An intriguing looking conveyance is parked here, resting atop four black wheels largely obscured by metal sheaths. It is the size of a small cart but lacks any sort of yoke or handle.
Show Handout #18. There are three such devices on the level. Each wheely sled is a 6-foot-long, 3-foot-wide, 1-foot-high maintenance vehicle. These devices are pro- pelled by a battery-operated engine which is recharged at various plug-in terminals on the level. A wheely sled has enough power to operate for 2 hours before needing recharging,
A wheely sled is capable of speeds between 10 and 150 feet per round, depending on lever setting. The controls are the speed lever, an on/off switch, and a flush steering wheel with lift and lock hand grasp. A wheely sled has a capacity of 1 ton.
If unguided by the steering yoke, the sled heads in a ran- dom direction. Roll 1d8 to determine its direction of travel (| = N,2 = NE,3 = E,4=SE,5=S,6= SW, 7 = W, 8 = NW). The platform is semi-flexible, and the device can turn 45 degrees in 6 feet as all of its wheels turn on the new course, but high-speed turns are likely to cause passengers to fly off. Anyone on a wheely sled traveling more than 50 feet per round must make a DC 8 Strength check to remain on the sled if not somehow strapped in. The DC increases by 1 for each additional 10 feet of speed beyond 50 the sled is traveling. A sudden impact by the sled causes 1 point of bludgeoning damage per 10 feet of speed the vehicle was traveling at the time of collision. A successful Constitution saving throw vs. a DC of 5 + 1 for each 10 feet of speed at the time of impact reduces the damage by half.
AREA 4- RECHARGING REPAIR
ROBOT
A bulky metal figure with a duck-like head stands motionless in this area. A ojlinder connects the metal being with a boxy protru- ston on one wall. Flickering lights are visible within the cylindrical connection as if lightning was contained within. There is a hum in the air and the smell of a storm is discernable among the tinges of mildew and rot.
Show Handout #19. This repair robot (see appendix B) is recharging its batteries at a power terminal. It turns to look at the party if it becomes aware of the PCs’ pres- ence. If the party has brown cards it will ignore them.
Development. If the party has a violet or gray color card, and can communicate with it, the robot will obey and follow, but it will run out of power in 1 hour as its power accumulators are deficient. If the party has no brown, violet, or gray cards or if not shown any card, the robot will alert police robots to investigate, even if it is shown orange or red cards. Two police robots (see appendix B) arrive on this level 10 minutes after being alerted and begin searching for the party. If found, the police robots attempt to apprehend them, bringing them to Police HQ (Level I, area 25) for containment. See the description of that area for the consequences of capture.
AREA 5 —- CROSSHATCHED AREAS
Ai large mass of boxes and tubes fills this area, each made of metal, glass, and less easily-identifiable materials. Numerous small cylinders, metal plates, meshes, protrusions, and other adornments cover the objects present here, each more inexplicable than the next. Narrow aisles pass between the obstructions, but they wind and tnist, and their ends cannot be seen. There is a soft humming sound in the air, its origin, however, is undiscernible.
These are potential danger areas. Generally, all wiring and piping is protected by metal as are all machines. Certain generators and transformers can cause trouble. If any character insists on striking, poking, prodding, or oth- erwise attacking these areas with metal instruments, they must make a DC 10 Intelligence saving throw. On a fail- ure, the character’s prodding triggers a minor explosion. This blast inflicts 17 (5d6) fire damage to everyone in a 20-foot-diameter area centered on the poked object. Those succeeding on a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw take only half damage. All in the blast area are stunned
for 1 minute. Stunned creatures that succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw end their stunned condition at the end of their turn.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Also, if an explosion occurs, there is a 5% chance that another generator/transformer within 40 feet will react in a secondary 10-foot-diameter blast, inflicting 12 (5d4) fire damage to anyone in that area and stunning them for 1 minute. As above, stunned creatures that succeed ona DC 12 Constitution saving throw end their stunned condition at the end of their turn.
There will be a series of snappings, cracklings, poppings, and hummings after any explosion. Lights here and there will flicker on and off. After 1 minute a worker robot (see appendix B) will appear to repair the damaged ma- chinery. If it sees the party and is not shown a brown, violet, or gray card, it will summon 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) which will appear in 10 minutes.
AREA 6 - CARGO HOLD BREACH
A jagged hole some 15 feet long and 5 feet wide at its middle has been blasted into the floor here. All is dark and silent beyond the breach, giving you no clue as to what might await you below.
This hole was created during the captain’s hunt for the intellect devourer and leads to area 11 on Level III below. A DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check determines that the hole was created on this side by a powerful re- lease of energy.
AREA 13 — RADIATION AREAS
A green glow seems to pulse from the contents of this room as if everything in it was under some eerte magical effect.
Each of these rooms is radiation-filled and contains con- taminants which are hazardous to living creatures. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these ar- eas may be subject to radiation sickness. These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1) X 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and los- es another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condition. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation serum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
LEVEL III: UPPER WALKWAY AND LOUNGE AREA
When the party steps onto the walkway, display Handout #20.
WANDERING MONSTERS
Each hour the party is exploring this level of the space- ship, roll a d20. Ona roll of 1,an encounter occurs. Then roll 1d12 and consult the table below:
Di2_— Encounter
1 1 police robot (Handout #5; see appendix B)
2-5 2d6 + 12 vegepygmies (Handout #7; see ap- pendix B)
6 1 trapper (see appendix B)
4 1 worker robot (Handout #6; see appendix B)
8-9 1d8 + 8 vegepygmies with 2d4 thornies (Handout #4; see appendix B for both)
10-11 1d4 grells 12 1 green slime (see Dungeon Master’s Guide p. 105)
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA 1 - CARGO HOLDS
A large space crammed with giant boxes and cylinders, each marked with indecipherable glyphs, is discovered here. These containers are stacked near to the ceiling in places and are arranged with a sense of order. Aisles pass through the stacked piles, leading deeper into the chamber. Some of the containers appear damaged and there are heaps of moldering organic and rusting metallic debris spilled from them.
These areas are still filled with huge crates and contain- ers which hold building materials, fertilizers, and similar colonization materials. There will be some destruction of goods noted, as well as human bones here and there— the remains of the plague when crewmen went insane. The party will find nothing of value in any cargo hold not specially noted.
AREA 2 - LIFTS
Ai seam is visible in the floor here, outlining a 20-foot-by-20-foot area. A green rectangle roughly the size of a human foot is set into the floor just outside the outlined space.
The lifts within the cargo holds are anti-gravity floor el- evators for cargo transfer between these holds and those below. There is a 20% chance each lift is at the current level when the PCs approach. When a lift is not present at a particular level, a retractable metal hatch seals the lift shaft, preventing accidents. Stepping on the green rec- tangle opens the hatch and summons the lift to that level. When present, the lift platform is a 20-foot-square metal plate with three colored rectangles, each about the size of a human’s foot, set into its surface. The rectangles are yellow, silver, and blue in color.
Each lift is operated by strongly depressing the colored floor panels on the lift floor—the yellow plate for down, the silvery one for up, and the blue plate for emergency stop. Although the lifts are functioning well, the emer- gency stop will cause a malfunction 50% of the time, stalling the elevator for 1d4 x 10 minutes. There is a 20% chance every 10 minutes that a worker robot (see ap- pendix B) will show up to repair the trouble. Unless a violet card is displayed to the worker robot, it will call for 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) who arrive after 1 minute.
DM Note: The lifts allow access to levels III, IV, V, and VIif the DM is using only the original material provided in the adventure. If the DM intends to include Level VII as provided in chapter 6, the lifts connect to that level as well.
AREA 3 —- LOUNGES
A Large open common areais situated here. Tables and chairs, com- fortable looking seats and couches, as well as colorful boxes bearing various knobs and protrusions are placed about the space. Almost all appear to be intact and in good condition.
These rooms are still in a relatively good state of repair. There are tables and chairs, loungers, couches, amuse- ment devices, and so forth. There are some bones, but there are no skeletons.
AREA 4 — ENTERTAINMENT AREA
This expansive area appears to be a mixture of feast hall and per- Jormance space. Much of the floor is open, free from obstructions, and ringed by a number of small tables surrounded by chairs. A
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Y c ? iy (OO Mighas UNF
‘>
DOOR f
y HOLE IN CEILING a Y DOUBLE DOOR ON/OFF LIT AREA
Y /
Y 4 Y OPEN DOORWAY BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
SS
BROWN CARD DOOR
VIOLET CARD DOOR 7(/@ Fe] vines bore <1) Maxmsisaailllddeaulldtteddte
Yj,” es ¢ DIMLY LIT AREA @
g
“ey
EG IESETER) *
SSS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
raised area contains a bar and chairs, indicating it may have served as a tavern. Strange metal boxes are affixed to the ceiling and a large shimmering ball, faceted like a massive gemstone, dangles above the center of the open floor area.
This area was for an evening’s entertainment and is com- prised of several separate areas. The cocktail lounge, bar, dancing, and night club sections are unremarkable, and there is no longer any power in the area. There are several bottles in a carton in the far corner of the bar area, and one contains alcohol which is highly inflammable (burns for 1 minute, causing 7 [3d4] fire damage to all creatures in a 5-foot-radius hemisphere; creatures succeeding on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw take only half as much damage).
AREA 5 - KITCHENS
Bare countertops with a number of large trenchers made from a curious horn-like material are present in this room. Along one wall is a bench with eight metal boxes resting atop it. Each box has a dark colored glass door in its front and a number of small square metal plates set beside it.A short black cylinder is visible atop each box as well. Along another wall is a fine metal mesh with a rivet below it. Next to this is a long narrow door. Near the entrance is a dark glass plate with four rivets below it.
These facilities are robokitchens like those on the level above (see area 7, Level I).
AREA 6 - ROPERS’ TERRITORY
A pair of pillars flank a curious-looking device on the edge of the balcony overlooking the garden area below. The device appears to be a box with glass lenses positioned atop a flexible rod.
Three ropers inhabit this area having claimed it as their territory. One roper will be on the walkway “fishing” for small arboreal creatures in the treetops 20 to 40 feet be- low. This roper appears indistinguishable from the pillar which supports the overhead unless a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check is successful. Its two com- panions lurk just inside the dark entry to the cocktail lounge.
The box with glass lenses is a magnifying viewer (see area 15 below).
Development. Lasers are especially effective against the ropers. Any hit by a laser pistol or rifle inflicts an addi- tional 4 radiant damage to the monsters.
Treasure. Each roper has 2d6 gems (10 gp each) in its
gizzard-like organ. In addition, during the course of their hunting, they have collected the following treasure: two dud fragmentation grenades, a spool of platinum wire (1,600 gp), one fire extinguisher with 3 charges remain- ing, and an anti-grav belt (see appendix C for details on the fire extinguisher and anti-grav belt). They keep this hoard in the cocktail lounge area.
AREA 7-STRANGLE VINES
A dense patch of vibrant green vines has gronn up the edge of the balcony here, sending dangling tendrils onto the walkway itself.
A monstrous growth of strangle vines (see appendix B; use Handout #21) has climbed up from Level IV below and now threatens creatures on this level. The strangle vines attack any creature coming within 20 feet.
Developments. The strangle vines withdraw ftom in- tense heat (burning oil, magical fire, and laser or blaster hits). The vines retreat towards their central vine (area 7 on the map) at double speed. They will remain there for 1 hour after no longer exposed to heat, slowly returning to their normal coverage after that time. Any creature constricted by the strangle vines is released, ending the grappled condition, but possibly suffering damage from the fire/heat attack as well if it is an area-of-effect attack. Cold freezes the vines in the area struck, but thawing occurs after 1 minute unless 3 charges from a fire extin- guisher or its equivalent are expended; using 3 or more charges kills a 20-foot-by-20-foot section of the vines.
These creepers are attracted to the strongest light source, and a PC carrying a means of illumination will be tar- geted first, suffering the first attack by the vines should they come into range of the plant’s constricting tendrils.
Reducing the strangle vines to 0 hit points destroys a 20-foot-by-20-foot section of the creeper, temporar- ily making this area safe. Unless the roots of the plant are destroyed (see Level IV, area 15), however, the vines grow back in 1d4 hours.
AREA 8 - VAMPIRE THORN VINES
Ai thick vine covered with thorns and bearing numerous smaller tendrils extends across the ground. The thorns are formidable, ranging from an inch long on the smaller vines to a width of a hu- man’s palm on the central creeper.
These massive vampire thorn plants (see appendix B; use Handout #22) have crept up from the level below
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
and begun to infiltrate Level III. They lash out at any creature approaching within 5 feet of their central vine, attacking with their smaller tendrils everything within
reach,
Developments. The vampire thorn vine withdraws from intense heat (burning oil, magical fire, and laser or blaster hits). The vine retreats towards its central root (area 8 on the map) at double speed. It remains there for 1 hour after no longer exposed to heat, slowly return- ing to its normal coverage after that time. Any creature grappled by the vampire thorn vine is released when it withdraws, ending the grappled condition, but possibly suffering damage from the fire/heat attack as well if it is an area-of-effect attack. Cold freezes the vampire thorn vine in the area struck, but thawing occurs in 1 minute unless 3 charges from a fire extinguisher or its equivalent are expended; using 3 or more charges kills this upper portion of the vine, but not the entire plant (see area 16, Level IV for further details).
Like the strangle vines (see area 7), the vampire thorn vines are attracted to the strongest light source, and a PC carrying any means of illumination will be targeted first, suffering the first attack by the vines should they come into range of the plant’s blood-draining tendrils.
AREA 9 — DINING SERVO ROBOT
A metallic cylinder about 5 feet tall moves slowly towards you on rolling wheels. It has a clear oval head filled nith blinking lights atop its round body and a pair of metal tentacles in leu of arms. It is decorated with black and white paint, now flaking and dirty, and a tattered strip of doth ts tied around its “neck.” in a dilapidated bow.
The cylinder is a dining servo robot (see appendix B). Diners at this lounge had their needs catered to by helpful servo robots. Most of these robots have been scrapped, but this one still functions—or rather malfunctions. The dining servo robot will immediately attempt to seat any persons entering the dimly lit lounge area, and then begin serving them heaping dishes of “food.” The substance in the dishes will be a decaying mush covered with nauseous blue-green mold. If any creature so much as tastes a drop of it, the eater must make a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the food causes insanity in the target’s next turn as the blue-green spores attack the brain. This insanity is identical to that caused by the symbol spell and lasts for 1 minute. At the end of that time, the creature must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or suffer 44 (8d10) necrotic damage as the spores attack its brain, taking only half damage on a successful save. The spores then run their course and no longer affect the eater. The insanity and poisoning are curable with either a Asser restora- tion spell or any technological source that treats poison or disease. Purify feod and drink will have no effect.
Development. If the party refuses to eat, the servo robot will attempt to force-feed the closest person, pursuing the party if they attempt to flee, although the servo will not leave Level ITI.
AREA 9A —- TREASURE TROVE
Ai heap of bones, cleaned and carefully arranged, les on the floor. The gleam of metal and gold is visible among the macabre display.
These are the piled bones from previous diners, cleaned up and placed here by the servo. Amidst these remains are jet black and violet cards, an empty needler pistol (see appendix C), and three pieces of jewelry (1d4 x 1,000 gp each).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 10 —- WEBBIRD FLOCK A flight of weird birds flutters about overhead. Each is the size of a raven and is brownish-gray in coloration. The birds have spikey tail feathers and appear to lack any sort of beak..A small, droop- ing chest appendage is visible on each bird's breast.
Show Handout #23. There are 1d3 swarms of webbirds (see appendix B) present at each of these areas. The web- bird swarms attack any creature approaching within 40 feet of their position, flying overhead and attempting to capture them with their webs which they spin. Entrapped creatures are subject to their horrific egg implantation.
Development. Webbirds shun flame, and any person with a torch will motivate the webbirds to attack those without such flame.
AREA 11 - CARGO HOLD WITH CEILING HOLE
Six large altar-like structures are present here, each rising some 10 feet above the floor and perched atop three sturdy legs. The altars are 10 feet in diameter and bowl-shaped. Four odd-looking bent pylons loom over each of the bonds, ending in disks with spear-like protru- sions in their centers. A large gaping hole, roughly 15 feet long and
J feet wide, is visible in the ceiling above. Several large crates, some covered in protective sheathing, are also visible along the perimeter of the room.
This hold has a number of stasis cages (now empty; see Handout #51 for an example of the stasis cages—mi- nus the bulette!). There are bones strewn about, some of monstrous appearance and some humanoid.
The hole in the ceiling is 20 feet above the floor and leads to the northwest corner of Level II (see area 6 on that level). See that description for more details.
Development. If it hasn’t already been encountered and defeated on Level II, there is a 40% chance the intellect devourer will be here. If not present when the party ar- tives, but still lurking aboard the spaceship, check again each 10 minutes the party remains in this area to see if the monster arrives.
Treasure. Under a human skeleton, noticeable with a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check, are an orange card and a blaster rifle (2 charges; see appendix C).
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 11A— OCCUPIED STASIS CAGE
A Large transparent box is discovered under a wrapping of protec- tive cloth. Inside are four serpentine creatures bearing wings covered with feathers in an assortment of rainbow hues. The creatures are unmoving and, if dead, are remarkably well-preserved. A small black cylinder with alien markings protrudes from the side of the crate at shoulder level.
The cage holds four couatls in stasis. The intellect de- vourer freed other creatures from stasis in order to eat them, but it knew that these would be too much to han-
dle.
Turning the black dial ends the stasis and will free the cage’s occupants. The couatls will not attack their rescu- ers, and if needed, they will use one éesser restoration and two cure wounds spells (per couatl) upon party members before departing.
Developments. If freed, the couatls will attack the intel- lect devourer and slay it if it appears, although two of the couatls will be killed during the fight. If the intellect devourer doesn’t appear, the couatls will go forth and kill the webbirds (driving survivors into hiding for 1d4 + 1 hours). The couatls will do one of these tasks or the other, but not both. After accomplishing these tasks, the couatls seek to escape the spaceship, eventually doing so. They will have nothing more to do with the party after providing magical healing and dealing with some of the ship’s monstrous inhabitants.
AREA 12 —- ROBOT STATIONS
A trio of boxy protrusions emerge from the walls in this small chamber. Each trails a thin rope-like coil ending in an odd, fork- shaped ornament. A cylindrical metal creature with tentacle arms is present here along with three bulkier metallic monsters with duck-like heads.
These areas are robot recharge stations similar to the one found at area 4 on Level II above. Each of these rooms will contain one police robot and three worker robots (see appendix B for both). There is a 50% chance that each is non-functioning.
Developments. A functioning police robot will attempt to apprehend the PCs unless the party has a red, gray, or orange card to show. If the entire party is apprehended, the police robot summons reinforcements to help cart the prisoners to Police HQ (area 25, Level I) for deten- tion.
Functioning worker robots ignore the party unless at- tacked—in which case they put out an alarm that sum- mons 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) to this area in 1 minute—or the PCs possess a repair robot remote control box which works as described on them.
AREA 13 — RADIATION AREAS
A green glow seems to pulse from the contents of this room as if everything in it was under some eerie magical efject.
Each of these rooms is radiation-filled and contains con- taminants which ate hazardous to living creatures. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these areas may be subject to radiation sickness. These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1) x 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and loses another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condi- tion. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation serum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
AREA 14 - GREEN SLIME
There are two places where green slime (see Dungeon Mastet’s Guide p. 105) can be encountered on this level in addition to any wandering monster results. The green slime growth to the east near the drop tube is above the doorway and has a 2 in 6 chance of falling on any creature passing underneath it. Check for each character passing through this area until four pieces of green slime have dropped.
The green slime which grows to the south is covering the rail of the walkway, and is of a bluish coloration which makes it seem as if the paint is peeling from the material rather than that it is covered with green slime. The green slime’s true nature can be noticed with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Any creature walking next to the edge of the walkway must make a DC 10 Dexterity sav- ing throw to avoid accidentally brushing against the slime.
AREA 15 - MAGNIFYING VIEWERS
A fork-shaped box with glass lenses and four protruding handles or levers is attached to the walkway’ railing on a flexible metal staff. The lenses are present on the side closest to the drop-off to the level belom. The fork tines are pointed towards the walkavay.
Show Handout #24. If these binoculars are turned the proper way and adjusted, requiring a successful DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check, they bring objects five times closer, ic. 100 feet is viewed as if the person was
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
only 20 feet distant from the subject. This will allow view- ing of Level IV below (and the display of appropriate il- lustrations) if the ship’s lights are on. Removal of these viewers from their fixtures will result in destroying their optics and will make them useless.
LEVEL IV: BOTANICAL GARDENS, ROOKERY, AMD MENAGERIE
Immediately upon setting foot on this deck it will be ap- parent to the party that it is teeming with life. A num- ber of calls, whistles, screams, and similar sounds can be heard. This noise does not reach the upper walkway due to a sonic screen. Those areas not covered with foli- age will be spread with dead leaves and vegetable matter, bones, rubbish, husks, and so forth, and earth is slowly spilling onto heretofore bare metal decks. Small crea- tures—animals, birds, insects, reptiles—can be seen dart- ing here and there.
When the party enters the level display either Handout #26 or #27 as applicable.
GENERAL FEATURES
The artificially constructed habitat of Level IV presents new features not previously encountered on the space- ship. These aspects of the level are described here.
Tiers. The whole botanical garden area is designed to give the impression of naturalness and space. There are tiers rising along the boundary of the place, each being about 5 feet higher than the next. Likewise, a tier de- scends towards the central lake, and then the islet in the center of that body is tiered in 10-foot heights. These walls are made to appear as natural stone and are gener- ally obscured by vegetation.
Small Animal Burrows. There are artificial burrows carefully built into the outer layers of tiers. Keepers could easily take care of these burrows by means of the work spaces underneath the rising tiers. These burrows are illustrated as a “c” shape representing the entry and “o” or oval representing the den area. They are large enough to permit the entry of a gnome or halfling.
Walkways. The flagged walkways are shown by dot- ted lines. The circular areas are resting places with stone benches. Vegetation is so thick as to make it impossible to tell what direction a pathway goes. The “S” marks on the circular areas of flagstone are concealed entrances to
the ‘tween decks area below (Level V).
Serviceways. The serviceway lanes under the tiers have their access in the 10-foot-wide passage between the gar- den area and the periphery areas. Small, latched metal doors give into the den portions of the burrows.
Streamlets and Pools. The solid lines are small streams of running water. They vary in depth from 1 to 2 feet or so and are about as wide as they are deep. The shaded cir- cles are pools, about 12 feet across, shelved from 2-foot depth at the edge to about 10 feet (despite some silting) in the center. Life abounds in and near them—insects, colorful fish, amphibians, and so forth.
Swamp. This section as indicated on the level map is an area of the garden where underground piping leaks bad- ly. Combined with the rise of the central lake, a boggy area has occurred, with water from 1 to 3 feet or so deep between hummocks of vegetation.
Lake. This body of water was formerly a large, natural aquarium for the enjoyment of upper echelon personnel. Various water creatures of a harmless sort, or marine life confined to water and not overly dangerous, could be viewed from above and below in the under-islet viewing chamber (see Islet, below). It still has numbers of fish breaking its surface now and then, as well as reptilian and amphibian sorts of creatures along its verge. (See the Cross Section of the Ship map for lake depths.)
Bridge. The span providing access to the islet is depict- ed in Handout #27 and #28, if the latter is applicable... This is the only normal approach. (See area 18 below for details of what will potentially be attracted if any person peers over the edge of the bridge.)
Islet. This centerpiece originally was the setting for the loveliest of exotic flora and its attendant fauna. There is no path on the small land space, but the way leads directly to a pair of doors which open at a touch of the key plate.
Under-Islet Marine Observatory. This facility is illus- trated in cross section and by Handout #29. The stairway spirals down to 50-, 70-, and 100-foot-depth observation floors. If the ship’s lights are on, the viewers will see vari- ous forms of large and small fish, and, if they succeed in a DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check, they get a fleeting glimpse of the “frog-thing” (see area 18). Also, glints of gems will be seen from the lake bed! If they use lights in the observatory they absolutely will not only see the froghemoth, but it will begin smashing at the plastiglass
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEO ALLL IMCL oP
A SS Zhag SSS . 4 Wj LEVEL Iv Sea RETENTION = CRRA 4, SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEE urr C3 | SRA Sx" PN aia fa) Sem CHEM Tr
z SiRAL ase 3 vee : = vo Tegunce Sc Y
ae ieee LEP 2 oes tao = A s TAT NY NN | : ieeeee Sern feo TZ ly : SEBSRED N: BAR : 7, G Bess 19 ig) y eo Disk TT Ny >.7 f 33 x! q
Ll
a Cita ARMs Cee 6 ian altar TTT I i] Le Ltda i yma st sos Y H ZO, iy? Di iyyypitife iil ,
iy, ss LU
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
DIMLY LIT AREA
UNLIT AREA
BURROW my
observation windows to get at the tender morsels within. The chance to break through is 5% per round. Attempts will cease as soon as the light is extinguished or the party is out of the monster’s sight.
A small closet on the lowest level of the marine observa- tory can be opened with a violet card. Inside are six sets of underwater swimming gear (use Handout #30 and see appendix C). From the six sets there, 1d3 + 1 workable sets can be garnered, but there is a 10% chance per set that lack of technical knowledge will cause the gear to malfunction when the wearer enters the water.
The rear wall of this closet has another small door keyed to a violet card, and this opens to a smaller chamber—an ait lock. If there are persons within the 4-foot-by-8-foot room when the door is closed, it will first fill with water, and then an outer hatch will open. The noise of this is 75% likely to attract the froghemoth (see area 18).
WANDERING MONSTERS
Each hour the party is exploring this level of the space- ship, roll 1d4. On a roll of 1, an encounter occurs. Then roll 1d12 and consult the table below:
Di2_ Encounter
1 four-winged bird
1 three-legged monkeyoid 1 rabbitoid (Handout #42) 1 white, multi-legged grub 1 ratoid
1 six-eyed toad
1 four-winged bird
1 squirreloid
CaAAHAEWNHE
1 tree lizardoid
1 rabbitoid (Handout #42) 11 1 foot-long grasshopperoid 12 1 rabbitoid (Handout #42)
DM Note: All encounters are with HARMLESS crea- tures unless keyed in the description below.
°
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA A- DEADLY PURPLE
BLOSSOM PLANT
A tall, thick-stalked plant grows to a height of nearly 15 feet here. Its trunk is branchless and covered with scaled bark. Fern-like fol-
age sprouts at the top and these fronds droop a short distance down, providing shade and shelter to the fine mossy mat at the plants base. Mixed among these fronds are cup-shaped purple flowers with silvery stamens. The flowers point upwards towards the lights in the ceiling. The air here is sweet-smelling, almost refreshing to the nose.
This is a purple blossom plant (see appendix B; use Handout #31), a highly dangerous form of vegetation. The plant senses the vibrations of any creature passing beneath the cupped lavender blooms, causing them to gently tilt and drip a syrupy poison from the flower. The toxic sap can kill, and the target’s decomposing body feeds the roots of the plant (the mossy mat at the bot- tom of the purple blossom plant).
AREA B - DEADLY TRI-FLOWER
PLANT
A tremendous plant with deep green stalks growing up to 8 feet in height blooms here. Each of this plant's three stalks is topped by trumpet-shaped flowers of vivid orange, bright yellow, and intense red.
The plant is a tri-flower frond (see appendix B; use Handout #32). Any creature moving within range of the plant’s senses is a potential victim to the tri-flower frond’s flowers.
Other color combinations of the plant’s flowers are white, pale silvery-gray, and pink, or golden brown, choc- olate brown, and russet. The DM should utilize variant color schemes in her descriptions of the plant should the party encounter multiple tri-flower fronds on this level to keep them guessing.
AREA C - DEADLY SNAPPER-SAW PLANT
A bush with broad ribbed leaves radiating out more than 5 feet from its center grows here. Plump and delicious smelling white ber- ries abound at the bush’s center, succulent and ripe.
This is a snapper-saw (see appendix B; use Handout #33). Hidden in the bushy center are a half-dozen tough stalk-like leaves with sharp edges and jagged thorny pro- jections which remind the viewer of a saw. Any creature stepping within the reach of the plant’s leaves will find that these growths will snap shut, holding it fast, and the saw-like stalks then flail the victim to shed its juices and shred its flesh to feed the plant.
The snapper-saw’s berries can be transparent golden
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
color or yellow-green and the DM should vary their ap- pearance if the party encounters multiple snapper-saw plants during their explorations to keep them guessing. Regardless of their coloration, the berries are not poison- ous and 4d12 berries are found growing on each bush.
AREA D —- THE HORRID PLANT
Ai leprous yellow-gray and ugly scarlet plant grows here. Spikey leaves, bloated and bottle-like stems, twitching tendrils, and writh- ing roots further add to its grotesque appearance. It is a horrid example of vegetable life, almost nauseating in its uncouth majesty.
Despite its nightmarish appearance, the horrid plant (see appendix B; use Handout #34) is peaceful and inof- fensive, and potentially helpful to the party.
If any intelligent creature comes within 5 feet of the hor- rid plant, thinking questioning thoughts, the plant will communicate telepathically, mentally giving the creature assurance that it is friendly to it, and warning it of the dangerous plants in this section (see A, B, C, and E in area 5). It can also give a vague description of the level.
Development. If the plant is attacked, it will slash its spiked tendrils at the attacker. If this fails to drive the opponent away, or if it is attacked from a distance be- yond its lashing range, the plant will discharge a bolt of electricity at the nearest attacker. Once attacked it will not
communicate with the party.
AREA E - GLOBE PALM
A tall, slender tree topped with several globe-like fruits the size of a small child’s head grows at this location. The globes are smooth and are various shades of blue and purple. They appear to be very ripe and ready for plucking.
This is a globe palm (see appendix B; use Handout #35). The tree cannot directly cause harm to others and instead relies on other predators to provide decomposing matter to feed its roots. Each of the plant’s globe-like fruits contains a pungent liquid that produces pheromones that drive preda- tors into a frenzy, attracting nearby monsters towards any potential prey covered in the stuff.
Development. The globe palm drops one of its phero- mone-filled fruits on a target passing within range. The DM should note the location of any nearby potentially hostile or hungry creatures, as they will soon be attracted to the plant’s position by the breaking fruit. These predators begin mov- ing towards the plant 1 minute after the first fruit breaks, moving as fast as possible and attacking any prey creature coveted in the pheromone immediately upon arrival.
DM Note: Be certain not to confuse “B” designation plant encounters with “B” (brown) color card-keyed doors. Also remember that “S” denotes a concealed hatchway to the service deck beneath.
AREA 1 - LEECHOIDS
The ground here is flooded, turning the forest floor into a large swampy morass. Patches of dry ground rise above the murky wa- ters, creating islands of grassy hummocks among the reed, lilypads, and algae scum.
Eight leechoids (see appendix B; use Handout #36) hide in this section of the swamp, hoping to ambush prey.
Development. Any creature succumbing to the le- echoids’ hallucinatory toxin is in danger of drowning as they slip unconscious beneath the murky waters of the swamp. Due to their hallucinating state, the unconscious creature doesn’t hold its breath before immersion and can only survive for a number of rounds equal to its Constitution modifier (minimum 1 round) before drop- ping to 0 hit points and beginning to die. If the dying creature is rescued from the water or succeeds in break- ing its unconscious state, it automatically stabilizes and no longer needs to make death saves.
AREA 2—- LOW GRASS PATCH
A 30-feot-diameter field is visible here. Lush grass grows in this meadow surrounded by tall trees and vibrant plants.
This hazard is the deadly boring grass, a mutated, car- nivorous plant which attacks any living thing which rests upon it (show Handout #37). The blades are cork- screwed, and they will immediately bite into the exposed flesh of anyone entering the meadow.
Any living creature who chooses to rest in the meadow is a potential target of the boring grass. After 1 minute of relaxing on the grassy field, every creature in the meadow is attacked each round by the grass using the following attack:
Boring Grass Tendrils: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: The target takes 12 (5d4) piercing damage.
Once the grass has successfully hit a creature, its tendrils have bored through into the target’s armor and they au- tomatically inflict 12 (5d4) piercing damage each turn the creature remains in the meadow.
A creature must also make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw on the start of its second turn after being success-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
fully attacked by the boring grass, becoming paralyzed on a failed saving throw, or suffering a 50% reduction in movement speed on a successful one. A paralyzed crea- ture can attempt another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the paralysis on a successful save. The creature can then move, but at a re- duced speed as described above.
A creature with magical protection, such as wearing a ning of protection or under the effects of a mage armor ot armor of Agathys spell, is immune to attacks for 1 round. The reduced speed remains in effect until the creature takes a long rest or a /esser restoration spell is cast upon them.
The grass can be killed by burning it with oil poured upon it, defoliants, or a blaster, incendiary grenade, or fragmentation grenade. Lasers have too small an area of effect to be sufficient to damage this vegetation seriously. Any of these effective methods destroys the boring grass and makes the meadow safe to travel across.
AREA 3 —- DEADLY REPTILES SECTION
This area appears to have once been a menagerie of sorts, but it is now neglected and being reclaimed by nature. Seven sections of this space are surrounded by tall metal rods, like fence posts lack- ing railings. In the northernmost section, the air seems to shimmer slightly around the metal rods, like heat haze on a hot summer day. Beyond the posts in each section, you can see shallons open caves that might have once served as shelters. Boulders are visible about this area and small creatures move in the knee-high grass...
This former viewing section once provided amusement for passengers, but when the plague struck, most of the force screens were shut off in the mania which attended the disease, and general carnage followed. Only the force screen of the (darkened) first cage in the northern part still remains up, and inside its enclosure can be seen the remains of the pair of horrible monsters which were penned therein. There are numerous small life-forms around, but the predominant creatures dwell amidst some boulders and screening vegetation at area 3 proper.
These creatures are two lizardoids (see appendix B; use Handout #38). They use their natural camouflage to blend into the overgrown vegetation in their enclosure then pounce on prey.
The remaining force screen around the northern enclo-
sure is identical to the one in the Security Cells (see area 25A, Level I). Consult that area’s description for more
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
information if the PCs attempt to bypass it or bring it down.
Treasure. The lizardoids’ nest contains three unhatched eggs, numerous bones, husks, a broken laser rifle, and a pile of dead leaves with a human skeleton beneath. The skeleton has a pouch containing a violet card, an aerosol defoliant can with 4 sprays remaining (each spray inflicts 2d4 necrotic damage to a large plant or destroys a 2-foot- by-2-foot area of ground cover vegetation), and a laser drill which has 6 charges on the power disc (see appendix C). Lastly, the end of a gold medallion (200 gp) will be spotted sticking out from a pile of lizardoid droppings.
AREA 4—- DANGEROUS ANIMALS SECTION
This section has three enclosures marked off by lines of steel posts resembling fence posts without railings. Beyond the posts are shallow but wide caves that might have once served as shelters for animal Life. Although once probably well-maintained, this entire section is now overgrown and neglected.
This area was similar to area 3 above, with various fero- cious beasts being taken out of stasis for a time and put on display behind the force screens of the cages. The area is a menagerie no longer, but rather the home terri- tory of a brute with a temperament which would make a wolverine seem as a lap dog in comparison: an aurum- vorax (see appendix B; use Handout #39).
This golden carnivore appears to be a badger-like crea- ture, about 1 ' feet high and 3 feet long, with four legs on each side. It is the fiercest predator in the area, having killed its competitors some time back. It is a high-density, very massive creature and weighs over 500 pounds de- spite its small size—thus its high armor class.
The aurumvorax is lurking in its den. Due to the over- grown nature of the enclosure, the creature has advan- tage on any Dexterity (Stealth) checks to surprise its prey. It will scuttle from hiding to attack, using its Pounce trait to try and knock down a likely-looking meal or the most formidable challenger to its territory.
AREA 5 - DEADLY PLANTS SECTION
A stone pathway winds its way through this overgrown garden, now nearly a jungle with neglect. Curious plants with colorful blos- soms, soaring trees, and vibrant underbrush sprout in dense clusters on either side of the path. The sound of small creatures scuttling through the plant life is everywhere.
As noted in area 3 above, the passengers were treated to various displays of dangerous flora and fauna, and dur- ing the days of the plague the force cages were generally shut off and the controls destroyed, freeing the exhibits. This area is now jungle-like, with many plants of strange and colorful types. Five of these special sorts are harmful or dangerous. (See areas A, B, C, D, and E above.)
AREA 6- UMBER HULK’S NEST
One of the strange cylindrical chambers that connect to other levels is present in this darkened area..A mound of debris appears piled beside it.
An umber hulk has built its nest around the drop tube and claimed this area for itself. This creature lurks near the drop tube for prey. It fights any creature intruding upon its domain.
Treasure. Amidst the debris of its nest are a mud-en- crusted blaster rifle with 3 charges and an anti-grav belt with only 1 round of power remaining in its disc (if the wearer goes up over 30 feet, or if itis used a second short period, it will cease functioning, and the wearer will fall).
See appendix C for both devices.
AREA 7- BABOONOIDS
There is a rustling of tree branches nearby as if some large animal has recently moved through the treetops.
This area is the territory of a small band of six ba- boonoids (see appendix B; use Handout #40), who at- tempt to hide from the party in the treetops, hoping they pass them by. These slightly smaller than man-sized crea- tures are omnivorous, but they do not hunt large crea- tures. They will hide from the party, but perceptive PCs will likely notice them in the treetops.
If molested, the baboonoids will hurt globe palm fruit missiles at attackers. The bull who leads the tribe also has two sleep gas grenades (see appendix C) which he will hurl if hard pressed.
Developments. The baboonoids have a limited vocabu- lary language and if a creature succeeds on a DC 16 Intel- ligence check, it is possible to parley with them. The tribe lives in fear of the shambling mounds that lurk adjacent to their territory (see area 11) and greatly desire that they be driven off or killed. If the party kills the shambling mounds, the baboonoids will send two of their number to serve as scouts for the party as long as it remains on
the level. Of course, some means of communication must be established, and the baboonoids will desire all
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
grenades which are found, as they understand the use of such missiles from their experience with palm globes.
AREA 8 - SCINTILLATING
PHOSPHORESCENT FISH
A placid pool measuring 10 feet in diameter is present here. The waters of the pool are filled with daggling, sparkling lights as if countless flashing fireflies dwelled in its waters.
This pool is inhabited by a score of darting 1-foot-long creatures which appear as sparkling lights when viewed from a distance. The scales of the fish seem to be made from semi-precious gemstones and the fish themselves are phosphorescent, shining both in daylight and in darkness.
A fish can be caught with a successful DC 12 Dexter- ity (Acrobatics) check, but doing so has consequences. These fish have poison spines, and any creature touching one must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, tak- ing 55 (10d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. With the proper tackle, a fish can be caught with a net or fishing pole on a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check, but the char- acter doing the fishing might still be potentially poisoned when handling a caught fish.
Treasure. Each fish has (1d10 + 10) x 5 scales, each be- ing of gem-like material worth 5 gp.
AREA 9 - BROWN (BLACK) PUDDING
A muddy hillock rises above the murky waters of the swamp, pro- viding a brief respite from the morass.
This hill is actually a black pudding of unusual colora- tion. It is indistinguishable from an earthen islet until it moves or attacks. It has no treasure at all.
AREA 10- BRILLIANT FISH
A 15 -foot-diameter pool lies among the vegetation at this location. Fish thrive in its shallow depths, swimming placid); about.
DM Note: If the level is currently in its daylight cycle, add the following:
The fishes’ scales flash and sparkle in the bright daylight, showing
them to be rainbow-hued in coloration.
These fish are about the same size as those described in area 8, but they sparkle and flash only when there is bright light, and they are more variegated in color. Each of the 32 fish in the pool has developed into a voracious, piranha-like predator. Treat the fish as a swarm of quip-
pers should any creature enter the pool.
Unlike their relatives in area 8, the scales of these brilliant fish are merely colorful, not valuable, and are worthless.
AREA 11 -SHAMBLING MOUNDS
There is a rank odor of rotting vegetation here, even more pro- nounced than elsewhere in the swamp.
Two shambling mounds dwell in this part of the swamp. These vegetable creatures lurk amongst the thick growths near the path to catch the unwary and blend in so well with their surroundings that they have advantage on any Dexterity (Stealth) checks to remain unseen. They will emerge when prey is within 10 feet of them, closing to striking distance and attacking.
Developments. The shambling mounds have vulner- ability to necrotic damage when that damage is caused by defoliants. If these monsters are slain, a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check of the area reveals a narrow path leading
to area 11A.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 11A—-SHAMBLING MOUND
HOARD
A pile of rotted plant matter and mud has been heaped here, resembling the nest of some swamp-dwelling reptile. It stands 3 feet high and 5 feet in diameter. Wisps of steam are visible rising from the rotting material.
The shambling mounds have built this heap of rotting vegetation, and some incidental treasure and danger is found within.
Development. Anyone digging into the heap discovers two fully-charged power discs (see appendix C) about 1 foot down. If they continue digging, a human skeleton with a jeweled ring (5,200 gp) will be discovered another foot below the power discs. Proceeding another foot fur- ther, the digger will uncover a swarm of rot grubs (see
appendix B).
AREA 12 —- MOSSY PATCH
A 10-foot-wide patch of moss grows in the shade alongside the pathway, free from underbrush and fallen debris.
This small meadow is actually green slime (see Dungeon Master’s Guide p. 105). Anyone pausing to take a break on its mossy sward is in for an unpleasant surprise.
AREA 13 -SQUEALER
The cries of an animal in pain and distress ring suddenly through the forest.
A squealer (see appendix B; use Handout #41), a fierce and semi-intelligent predator about the size of a large gorilla, lurks nearby. It is spotted yellow and green with a pig-like head about 2 feet long—most of which is mouth filled with sharp tusks! Two arm-like appendages with three razor-sharp claws sprout from its hunched shoul- ders and rear quarters, respectively, while another grows from the center of its back. Its two forelimbs are about a foot longer than its rear limbs, and have clawed, prehen- sile fingers. Its head is thrust forward.
The squealer is able to imitate the death shrieks and dis- tress cries of various animals, and it uses such calls to attract prey, for it feeds upon hunting animals as readily as upon the hunted. Its favorite trick is to find a tree limb sufficient to support its 400-pound bulk, squeal, and then drop down with its forepart upon its victim, grabbing it with its three rear limbs. The beast will then bite and claw its restrained prey to death.
AREA 13A-—SQUEALER LAIR
The wide mouth of a burrow is visible in the side of one of the tiered hills surrounding the forest. It is dark inside and the smell of death seeps from its gaping entrance.
The squealer from area 13 makes its den here with its offspring. The burrow is one of unusual size originally designed for a harmless fuzzy herbivore. It is currently occupied by a squealer adolescent (see appendix B) that ferociously defends its home.
Treasure. Amidst the bones therein is an orange card, an incendiary grenade (see appendix C), and four 100 gp gems.
AREA 14- LIZARD AREA
This area abounds with lizards scampering through the under- brush, sunning themselves on rocks, and chasing the numerous in- sects drawn by the flowering blossoms that sprout from the bushes and flowers. The reptiles range in size from no longer than a finger to over the size of a human's arm.
There are many lizards and harmless lizardoids inhabit- ing the area in a 40-foot radius of the numerical key, for there are many flowering plants and their attendant in- sects here. These creatures live in the burrows, the shrub- bery, and the trees. They range from chameleon-size to 3 feet and more.
Development. If the party has not slain all of the rop- ers on Level III (see area 6 on that level), there is a 10% chance per minute the party is in this area that one of the ropers will send down a tendril to “fish” for the lizards— or the monkeyoids and ratoids which prey upon them from time to time.
If the party members are on a higher tier, it is 50% prob- able that one of them will be attacked by a ropet’s tendril.
AREA 15- STRANGLE VINE ROOTS
Ai thick knot of dimbing vines sprouts from the earth, winding their way up the walls to reach the level above and slithering through a nearby open doorway into the corridors beyond.
This is the root of the strangle vine plant (see appendix B; use Handout #21) for this area and destroying it slays all its central vines that spread from this point. It has normal stats, but possesses 200 hit points.
The strangle vine cannot withdraw from intense heat (burning oil, magical fire, and laser or blaster hits) here at its roots, but will release constricted creatures (who
may suffer damage from the fire/heat attack as well if it is an area-of-effect attack). Cold freezes the vines in the area struck, but thawing occurs in 1d4 + 1 rounds unless 3 charges from a fire extinguisher or its equivalent are expended; using 3 or more charges kills a 20-foot-by-20- foot section of the vines.
These creepers are attracted to the strongest light source, and a PC carrying a means of illumination will be tar- geted first, suffering the first attack by the vines should they come into range of the plant’s constricting tendrils.
AREA 16 - VAMPIRE THORN VINE ROOTS
Ai thick vine covered with thorns and bearing numerous smaller tendrils sprouts from the earth at this location. The vines thorns are formidable, ranging from an inch long on the smaller vines to a width of a human's palm on the central creeper. The vine has climbed the wall to reach the level above you.
This is the base of the vampire thorn vine (see appendix B; use Handout #22) that grows up to area 8 on Level III. Destroying these roots slays the plant for good. It has normal stats but possesses 170 hit points and its blood drain attack has a 10-foot reach.
AREA 17 — WOLF-IN-SHEEP’S- CLOTHING
You catch movement out of the corner of your eyes as you see one of the numerous rabbit-ke creatures in the strange forest becomes aware of your presence. Startled, the animal looks your way, then crouches down atop a tree stump, and freezes, hoping to escape your notice.
The stump and rabbit is actually an alien life-form. This predator comes from the same planet as the abundant rabbitoids seen all over the level. It has developed a fleshy growth atop its body which exactly duplicates one of these harmless herbivores, and it wiggles and displays this bait to lure others of this kind—or creatures which prey upon them—to it. The wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing (see appendix B) has likewise adapted its body form to resemble a tree stump, while its mobile and grasping tentacle roots appear to be nothing more than gnarled tree roots, and its eyestalks appear to be vines or plant growths. It can move its “lure” to give it a sense of ani- mation and bait predators within reach of its grasping
tentacles.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
When this encounter takes place roll as if on the wan- dering monster table, look unhappy, then read the above description and show the group Handout #42, “The Cute Little Bunnyoid on the Stump.” If any of the PCs approach within 15 feet of the “stump,” the wolf-in- sheep’s-clothing attacks with its grasping roots, revealing its true nature. At that point, show Handout #43.
AREA 18 - THE FROGHEMOTH
The lake is the abode of the froghemoth (see appendix B). Whether this is a mutated thing or the adult form of some specimen loosed from captivity, it is unquestion- ably the most fearsome of all the terrible life-forms on the level. The froghemoth’s 18-foot-long, 10-foot-wide body is yellow-orange on the belly, shading to a medium
green on its back and thick, bowed rear legs. From its shoulder area sprout four tentacles, two from each shoul- der, which are green on top and yellowish underneath. The creature’s nostrils are stalk-like, and its three eyes are housed on a retractable protruding appendage which is withdrawn when danger threatens the optics. The froghemoth will often submerge its body several feet be- neath the water, trail its tentacles ashore, and watch with its eye appendage at water level—this, along with the nostril stalks, appears to be a plant growth of some sort. The froghemoth may be lurking near the bridge when the party crosses it. On a roll of 13+ ona d20, the mon- strosity is present and attacks anyone attempting to cross the span. Be sure to check each time the party crosses the bridge or looks over the railing into the water while the froghemoth still lives. Show Handout #28 if the beast is encountered on the bridge.
Entering the waters of the lake is even more likely to attract the froghemoth. Even so much as wading into its waters draws the froghemoth to the PCs’ location on a roll of 10+ on a d20. PCs actively diving into the lake’s waters and exploring its depths encounter the froghemoth on a d20 roll of 6+.
The DM may find the rules for holding one’s breath and underwater combat (Player’s Handbook p. 183 and p. 198, respectively) useful while the PCs explore this area.
Development. The froghemoth doesn’t stray far from the lake, but will chase potential prey a short distance. If prey is escaping, the creature will pursue for 1 minute out of the water—but only in the swampy area to the southeast of the lake.
Treasure. At the point marked with an “X” the monster has built a nest of tree trunks and debris. This nest can be noticed from the western shore of the lake with a suc- cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check if a searcher is within 20 feet of the nest. It is located 10 feet under
the lake’s surface.
Inside the nest can be found bits of skulls and bones, an atmosphere analyzer (30% chance of being functional), a twisted laser rifle, a poison gas grenade (see appendix C for these), a plastic model of the level, and a metal chest filled with 100 small gold bars (12 gp each). If the chest is carefully examined it will be noted that it has a small compartment in which is a dial. The chest and its con- tents can be made absolutely weightless for up to 1 hour per charge of a power disc (see appendix C). The chest’s capacity is 3 cubic feet.
In addition to the nest, there are glittering gems embed- ded in the muck at the lake’s bottom. These are only no- ticeable from within the Under-Islet Marine Observatory (see General Features above). Any searcher will find one 100 gp gem per 10 minutes spent searching the bottom of the lake bed. (An insane technician spread these here after finding crates of them taken from some rich world somewhere. Of course, many are now totally lost under muck, and others are elsewhere, but not less than 51 nor more than 100 can be found in the lake.)
AREA 19 - GASBAT COLONY AND ROBOBAR
Several sinuous, yet comfortable looking couches and chairs are placed about this chamber which resembles a tavern’s tap room in design. A large, complex collection of cylinders, tubes, spouts, and other unidentifiable devices rests bebind a broad bench flanked by high seats. The exposed surfaces of this expansive chamber are splattered with piles of chalky material, some of which sprout strange fungi.
In the air overhead drift several dozen weird creatures resembling bloated bats. They float aimlessly, but every so often, one emits a flatulent blast and briefly rockets through the air.
This is a colony of 100 gasbats (see sidebar; use Hand- out #44) that may present a hazard to the party. Their droppings (the chalky material) litter the room, and many strange fungi grow in clumps throughout the whole area. One particular growth has beneficial properties (see Treasure below).
The complex collection of devices is the lounge’s robo-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
bar, which no longer functions. Show Handout #45. An- yone succeeding in a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check while examining the bar notices a small pane) under a lid ona back counter has several dials and switches. Operat- ing this control panel has interesting results.
Development. Playing with any of the dials and switches on the control panel behind the robobar causes a grind- ing noise and a trembling in the area. After 1 minute has passed these effects will cease. Thereafter a section of the outer hull will slide aside to reveal a glassy surface, black and flecked with points of colored light. Show Handout #46.
Has the party somehow been responsible for a reacti- vation of the vessel? Did it take off? Are they in deep space? No, they have activated a mechanism which pro- vided a “view” of the stars even when the spaceship was in an uninteresting section of space, by running taped scenes of past stellar spectacles. The whole thing can give players a few bad moments, however.
Treasure. Among the more common toadstool variety fungi sprouting from the gasbat droppings is a weird branched variety more resembling coral than fungi, growing at the point marked “X” on the map in this area. Consuming the rose and cerise branched growths will give the individual the equivalent of a haste spell for 1 minute. There are six of these mushrooms. Baboonoids Jove these growths.
There is a 1-gallon container filled with alcohol located behind the robobar which can be found with a success- ful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check. In addition to its intoxicating properties, the alcohol is highly flammable and is equivalent to oil if set alight.
AREA 20 - CREW QUARTERS
A portion of this larger space appears to have been reserved for occupation. A transparent oval table surrounded by ladle-shaped chairs stands on one side of the room across from a trio of cots covered with thin, shiny blankets. A skeleton lies slumped over the tabletop and two more are visible beneath the blankets.
This area was for on-duty crew to take breaks, eat, nap, ot whatever. The cot blankets are of a futuristic material, but have no special qualities.
Treasure. A search of the skeletons discovers a brown color card, and a paralysis pistol with 3 charges (see ap- pendix C).
e ® GasBaTs
“Gasbats” are weird plant-animals that vaguely resem- ble bats with bloat. They are nocturnal, using neutral buoyancy to paddle through the night air with green- black vanes, feeding on small flying creatures such as insects. Every so often the gasbat emits a cloud of vapors from a sack near its terminus, and these vapors cause other small creatures to move slowly and errati- cally. The creature then circles and devours the prey thusly made helpless. Each gasbat has AC 11, 2 hit points, a speed of 5 feet, and a flying speed of 20 feet.
They are normally harmless and will not attack the party, but they may present another danger. If any light is brought nearby, gasbats will react by flying cra- zily at it, emitting their vapor clouds in a suicidal man- ner, for these fumes are highly explosive. Each light source attracts 2d6 gasbats.
If the light source is one that produces open flame, the vapors and the gasbat will explode causing 3 (1d6) fire damage for each gasbat attracted by the light source to anyone within a 5-foot radius (and totally destroying the gasbat, of course). A successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw reduces the damage by half.
e @ AREA 21—- CREW ROOM
Narrow doors are set in the walls near shelves containing an array of hand tools, canisters, coiled cords, and other objects.
This chamber was used to store various tools, imple- ments, and items used by the crewmen who kept the gardens and exhibits. The narrow doors in the walls are lockers and storage areas for more tools and items.
Treasure. Amidst the: litter of useless items will be found 100 feet of nearly unbreakable rope that is im- mune to slashing damage. Despite its resiliency, it is no more bulky than 100 feet of normal rope. Also present are a pair of 10-foot-long plasteel poles, a portable spot- light (1 charge left), and a hand pump spray gun with 20 1-quart cans of defoliant chemical (only 18 of the cans are still potent, however). See appendix C for details on these devices.
If anyone eats the powdery chemicals in one of the po- tent defoliant cans, they must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 22 —- TRAPPERS
A trapper (see appendix B) is found at each of these locations on this level, masquerading as normal flooring. The one near the eastern drop tube appears as a stretch of metallic flooring, while the one in the garden section of the level appears to be flagstone.
Treasure. The trapper in the garden area has no treasure, but if it is killed the entrance to the ‘tween decks (Level V) will be discovered. The one in the sloping passageway
to Level VI has a laser pistol and three full power discs (see appendix C), a jet black card, and two pieces of jew- elry (1d6 x 1,000 gp each) hidden beneath it.
LEVEL V: SERVICE DECK 6, OR GARDEN ‘TWEEN DECKS
When the party enters the level display Handout #17.
This service area was primarily for the water circulation machinery for the garden deck, purification of this water, spraying, and so forth.
GENERAL FEATURES
Splotch Marked Areas. These spaces are covered with various colors of perfectly harmless mold—yellowish, greenish, pinkish, and bluish growths in mixed patches. They thrive in the humid conditions of this level stem- ming from the leaking water filtration system.
Solid Areas. All these spaces are continuations of the area above. They cannot be entered. The walls encasing these areas are plasteel.
Eastern Area from North to South. The portion of the level beginning adjacent to the eastern edge of the Jake’s bulkhead and extending to the ship’s hull is an area that is covered with condensation. The floor in this re- gion is covered with small puddles here and there that make swift travel dangerous.
Any creature taking the Dash action in the region must make a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a failed check, the creature slips and falls, an 15 Constitution saving throw. On a successful saving throw, the creature is knocked prone but takes no dam- age. On a failed save, the creature is knocked prone and stunned for 1 minute. If the saving throw is failed with a roll of 5 or less, the creature is knocked prone, takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage, and falls unconscious for 30 minutes. An unconscious creature can be roused by another creature taking an action to revive them.
must make a DC
Trapdoors. These ceiling hatches (marked “T” on the map) ate entryways to Level IV above. They require a brown color card to operate from this side.
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA 1 —-SHALLOW POOL
The sound of steadily dripping water is loud here. Water leaks from a pipe overhead, creating a pool of water 50 feet wide and 30 feet across at its broadest points. The pool drains to the east in a narrow rivulet. Patches of colorful fung ranging in hues from yel- Jon, green, pink, and blue thrive along the shores of the pool.
A stream of water from a nearby pipe and dripping water from overhead form a very shallow pool of water which drains slowly eastwards to the drop terminus tube there. In the western third of the pool dwells a greater slither- ing tracker (see appendix B). This 4-foot-long creature will strike like a snake at all who enter the pool, hoping to bring down as much prey as possible, for otherwise it must hunt below.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
» LEVEL V * SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET : ww
Wn
Wey’ ES
PILLARS
SPHINCTER ||
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 2 —- YELLOW MOLD PATCHES
Each of these yellow mold growths (see Dungeon Mas- ter’s Guide p. 105) clings to the low ceiling overhead. Any creature standing 5 2 feet or taller must succeed in a DC 8 Dexterity saving throw when passing beneath them or brush against the mold, setting off a cloud of spores. Proper precautions (such as crawling) causes the creature to automatically succeed on their saving throw.
AREA 3 - “DAMP” FLOOR
A long patch of fungi sprouts here to create a 40-foot-long, 10-foot- mide “finger” of colorful growth on the metal floor. The floor ap- pears much damper around the growth than elsewhere, suggesting the fungi are thriving in this moist area.
The damp floor is actually a cluster of hungry gray 00z- es. There are three oozes to the west of the fungi and three oozes to the east of the moldy growths.
AREA 4-—-WHEELY SLED
An intriguing looking conveyance is parked here, resting atop four black. wheels largely obscured by metal sheaths. It is the size of a small cart but lacks any sort of yoke or handle.
Show Handout #18; see Level IT, area 3 for details about this vehicle when working properly. However, this par- ticular wheely sled will malfunction if used. Once driven for 1 round, the vehicle will begin to accelerate and its steering mechanism will lock, so no turning is possible. The vehicle will reach whatever rate of speed possible before smashing into something solid. Of course, players can elect to have their characters bail out...
The wheely sled is irreparably destroyed in the crash and no longer functions.
AREA 5 —- REPAIR ROBOT FACILITY
This smaller chamber contains two of the bizarre metal duck-billed creatures that inhabit the complex. They slump motionless against one wall of the room, their metal bodies opened and displaying a perplexing amount of colorful string and thin pieces of horn inside.
Inside this room are two worker robots which do not function and cannot be restored to proper working order by any efforts of the PCs.
Treasure. If they are carefully examined, it will be dis- covered that an atmosphere analyzer (see appendix C) is bolted to the case of the second, and it can be removed with relative ease.
AREA 13 —- RADIATION AREAS
A green glow seems to pulse from the contents of this room as if everything init was under some eerie magical effect.
Each of these rooms is radiation-filled and contains con- taminants which are hazardous to living creatures. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these areas may be subject to radiation sickness. These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1) x 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and loses another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condi- tion. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation serum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
LEVEL VI: THEATER, ATHLETIC, AND ACTIVITY DECK
WANDERING MONSTERS
Each hour the party is exploring this level of the space- ship, roll a d20. Ona roll of 1, an encounter occurs. Then roll 1d4 and consult the table below:
D4 Encounter
1 1d6 + 6 gasbats (Handout #44; see sidebar near Level IV, area 19)
1 umber hulk
1 police robot (Handout #5; see appendix B)
1 worker robot (Handout #6; see appendix B)
kon
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA 1- CARGO HOLDS
A Large space crammed with giant boxes and cylinders, each marked with indecipherable glyphs, is discovered here. These containers are stacked near to the ceiling in places and are arranged with a sense of order. Aisles pass through the stacked piles, leading deeper into the chamber. Some of the containers appear damaged and there are heaps of moldering organic and rusting metallic debris spilled from them.
These holds contain various foodstuffs, stasis cages, and materials such as those previously mentioned in the key to area 1 on Level III. Several encounters occur in these areas according to their numerical designations.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Se < Ws al smi eo \ A \< LEVEL VI : \\ SCALE: 4 SQUARE = 10 FEET \\ iS SS LET. mess -< Cyst aS ; t WN 480 2 S — , hs alt cool | coo im aa f { L % p | Qo ¥ t toe AY 2 Tisearst 1 T 2s “| 2 Tp pa TH Tha a ea | Z Hitt } I t Z Z i 5 1 SRA ZZ 3 3 le | 8 x * ES z at : Is ky a Ht T + ’ BRS CGE ™ J | Ss >< : : 5 mare mer AO AF = SN * Z G ++-G- t ¢ SES Nb, ~G 8 8 oN Zz G Gy = t oD ‘ = OW © { \ SIronrrie ty } G = < fy // Uy y) Uf \ ly i
ff ~ “TUR ee al mihaiqivd A re \ ie "3 feo] DOUBLE DOOR GRAY CARD DOOR , li = OPEN DOORWAY STAIRS : CURTAIN i, (
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 2 —- AUDITORIUM
A vast assembly hall stretches out before you. A central aisle runs down the middle of the room, bisecting rows of numerous benches easily capable of accommodating a couple hundred people or more. Art the end of the aisle rests a raised dais accessible by a short flight of steps..A somewhat tattered curtain screens the south end of the place. At the sound of your entrance, the pitter-patter of vermin is heard as the unseen creatures scuttle away.
This large place was for general meetings. Although it has some rubbish and skeletal remains, it is in generally good repair, and all of its seats are in place and intact. The small creatures heard in this room are harmless ver- min that the party never quite catches a glimpse of. The DM should use their presence on this level to keep the players guessing and their characters on their guard.
AREA 3 - THEATER
Many rows of seats lead from the back of this lng chamber to a perfermance stage at its far end. A tattered cloth curtain hangs at the back of the stage, hiding the rest of the room from view. The scuttling of tiny vermin echoes through the high-ceilinged room. Bits of bones and litter are scattered here and there beneath the seats.
This area was for performance of plays as well as other forms of live entertainment. The mind flayer dwells in a dressing room backstage and may be aware of the party’s presence. The DM should consult the description of area 15 on this level for further details when the party enters this room.
AREA 4—SWIMMING POOL
The air here is humid and it is easy to see why. A large, perhaps ornamental pool fills most of the chambers floor space. A raised platform accessible by a ladder rises above the pool’s murky waters at its north end. East of the pool are tiers of stepped seating that provide a char view of the water. Old bones and trash litter the seating area and the sound of fleeing vermin is heard from beneath the seating tiers.
In addition to providing recreation, competitions were held here—swimming, diving, water polo, water ballet. There is a diving platform at the north (deep) end of the pool. The pool’s depths are 4 feet at the south end and 30 feet at the north end. The water appears relatively clean, but it is not clear as the filtration does not function properly.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Anyone looking into the pool sees the following:
The water of the pool is murky, but you can vaguely see several hu- man skeletons lying on the bottom of the pool. The gleam of metal and the glitter of gemstones ts also visible among the bones.
During the plague madness, a whole laboratory aquarium tank was ordered dumped into the swimming pool by an insane technician, and of course the worker robots obeyed. This carefully watched tank contained several dozen tiny monsters taken from some strange world, and one man- aged to survive the transition to (nearly) fresh water—a stunted eye of the deep (see appendix B). Subsequent dumping added food creatures to the pool, so the monster could feed and grow. Although the water is too shallow and not of the proper chemical balance, the eye’ manages to get along, although it is small and stunted despite its decades of age. It preys upon the smaller inhabitants of the pool (blind crayfish, fish, turtles, snails, etc.) and any- thing coming down to its waters to drink.
Development. The stunted eye of the deep dwells in the deeper northern half of the pool, and when the party approaches, it will use phantasmal force to make it appear that it is a jumble of bones lying upon the bottom. The creature will watch and wait. At the best time, it will flash a light beam with its central eye in order to dazzle the bulk of the party, while it attacks a smaller portion by its hold monster| hold person eye rays and weaponry.
Treasure. One of the real skeletons on the pool’s bottom has a glinting metal tube which contains blueprints of the outer hull of the whole starship, with an explanatory note as to its purpose in an unknown tongue. There are also 27 gems (10 gp each), 341 pp, and a gem-encrusted necklace (10,000 gp) visible on the floor of the pool.
AREA 5 - DRESSING AND LOCKER ROOMS
A room with little furnishings and décor is found here. Many nar- row doors line the walls of the room and several long low benches are arranged about the floor. Standing cabinets, each nith more narrow doors, are placed in rows between the benches. Litter, old bones, and the sound of tiny scuttling feet are also present.
These dressing and locker rooms contain numerous lock- ers (the narrow doors) that hold only ragged swimsuits, towels, robes, and other ordinary items. Each of the lock- er rooms has a small shower area, but the water no longer works. Some may have other contents as described in the encounter key below.
AREA 6 - BATHS
Humid, warm air greets you as you enter this area. The sound of dripping water echoes across the tiled floors and walls. There is a humming sound around you as if hidden machines suddenly began to operate.
These rooms each cater to special needs and are divided into three separate areas. The machine noise is the baths’ various automatic systems coming online. See the note below for more details. Four doppelgangers make their den in the baths. These creatures left their fellows on Level I for greener pastures and eventually ended up re- siding in this area.
DM Note: Whenever any creature steps into the front part of this complex, robo mechanisms cause the various baths to begin functioning, so when the party enters the sauna (area 6A), it is filled with rolling steam. The dop- pelgangers will wait here, or in the regular steam bath room (area 6B), and hope to attack the intruders by sur- prise.
If the doppelgangers surprise their foes in either the steam bath or sauna, they gain the following trait:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Knock-Out Attack: If the doppelganger surprises a creature and hits it with an attack during the first round of combat, the target must succeed on a DC 14 Con- stitution saving throw or be knocked unconscious for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Development. The doppelgangers will seek to kill those knocked out in the following round (drowning in the whirlpool bath area is favored), and a doppelganger will then take the person’s place in the party, immediately working to slay the others. If any are spotted, the other doppelgangers will still use their Shapechanger trait to confound the party.
Treasure. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check or a thorough search of the room discovers the doppelgangers’ treasure. Hidden under a rotting heap of clothing in the locker room are 12 gems (50 gp each), a wound healing canister with 4 charges, a paralysis pistol with 1 charge in its power disc, and a ring (1,200 gp).
There is also an obvious suit of powered armor leaning against one wall, but it is non-functioning. A small pouch clipped to the back of the armor contains an incendiary grenade and a clip for a needler. See appendix C for more information on these devices.
AREA 6A - SAUNA
This room ts filled with billowing clouds of hot steam, making it impossible to see the entirety of the space. The air is humid and hot, jet somehow relaxing.
This room automatically functions when the baths are first entered and a group of doppelgangers from area 6 may be lurking here. If the steam is cleared or the party examines the room by touch, it can be described as:
Tiers of wooden seats line the perimeter of this room..A low plinth with a depression containing a number of dark stones stands in the center of the room. The air here is hot, almost desert-like in temperature and the air above the stones shimmers from the heat.
A control pad on the plinth controls the heat of this room and introduces water onto the hot rocks to pro- duce the occasional gout of steam. Touching the rocks inflicts 2 (1d4) fire damage.
AREA 6B - STEAMROOM
Low benches run along the walls of this room in stepped seating. The air here is filled with warm mist making it difficult to see the room's entirety.
Like the sauna (area 6A), this room also automatically operates when the baths are entered and may be home to doppelgangers from area 6.
AREA 6C — WHIRLPOOL/MINERAL
BATH
Four small pools filled with agitated water are set into the floor of this room. Wisps of steam rise from the water’ surface and it is difficult to see what, if anything, the pools might contain.
The doppelgangers in area 6 may be present in the room and might attempt to drown their victims in one of the whirlpool baths. One of baths contains old bones and waterlogged rags, but nothing of value.
AREA 7- GYMNASIUM
The floor space of this large chamber contains objects of intermi- nable purpose. Several poles are arranged horizontally on stands at uneven heights, large padded ovals roughly resembling the backs of horses stand at chest height on posts, metal rings attached to cords dangle from the ceiling, and soft pads are distributed about the floor. A pile of these pads les against the north wall. Tiered seating occupies the southern end of the room, giving a clear view of the ineffable devices arranged before it.
This typical gym served for gymnastic competitions as well as other athletic activities such as tumbling and jumping.
Seats were for spectators during special events. Equip- ment and mats are piled here and there, and many (harm- less) ratoids now inhabit a stack of mats along the north wall.
AREA 8 - STORAGE
This room is cluttered with various boxes, bottles, bags, and other containers, all in neglected condition.
These storage facilities mostly contain maintenance and custodian supplies. They hold nothing of value or inter- est, just cleaning devices and compounds, now all inert. Some are equipment storage for the exercise areas— weights, dumbbells, etc.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 9 —- THEATER LOBBY AND ROBO SNACK BAR
Tattered and mildewed carpeting covers the floor of this room, which bears no furnishings. At the south end of the room is a broad high bench like a tavern’s bar. A complex collection of cylinders, tubes, boxes, spouts, and spigots is arranged behind the bench, and some of the spigots drip liquid and semi-congealed colorful substances.
A trapper (see appendix B) clings to the ceiling, preying on the small creatures which roam the level. It has grown quite large, for the robo snack bar still functions, even though all of the lighting systems for the level have been shorted out. Things coming to get a bite to eat there are usually the eaten instead.
The robo snack bar operates similar to the kitchens on the upper level (see area 7, Level I), but is only 25% likely to produce a poisonous foodstuff.
AREA 10 —- PHYSICAL TRAINING
ANDROIDS
Aq raised platform surrounded by ropes strung from posts at each of its four corners dominates this room. In other parts of the room, the floor ts covered with soft padded material.
There are three malfunctioning androids here, once phys- ical training models specialized in the arts of boxing/ wrestling, fencing, and karate. Their safety protocols are no longer in place and they pull no punches in combat.
As soon as the patty enters, the three androids will ap- proach and speak, telling the party to prepare for train- ing. Even if no translation spell or device is employed, the trio will select opponents and commence “training” exercises.
The boxing physical training android (see appendix B; use Handout #47) will throw combination punches or employ wrestling holds on its opponent.
The fencing physical training android (see appendix B; use Handout #48) engages its chosen foe with its faulty electrical epee. The epee only malfunctions for 6 rounds, after which it no longer delivers electrical dam- age.
The karate physical training android (see appendix B; use Handout #49) attempts to stun or disarm its oppo- nent. It will ignore a stunned opponent and attack anoth- er character, but it will first disarm the stunned person, tossing the weapons into the adjacent area 8 as an action.
Development. If the karate physical training android’s opponent is able to communicate with it, and suggests that its discipline is inferior to boxing, it will go abso- lutely berserk and attack the boxing physical training an- droid. If the karate and boxing androids fight, they will destroy each other.
Treasure. The storage room (area 8) adjacent to the training area is a mess of bones and junk. In this litter will be found a personal diary with an account of the colonization expedition and fatal plague (this is written in Alien Common, of course, but it can be magically read with a comprehend languages spell). There ate also some worthless paper scraps, a smashed worker robot, an anti- grav belt with 6 charges on its power disc (see appendix C), and four pieces of jewelry (400 gp, 900 gp, 1,500 gp, and 3,000 gp, respectively).
AREA 11 —- TRAPPED SHEDU
Two large creatures resembling winged horses with the oversized heads of bearded humans are present here. They appear to have cleared a space among the piled containers filling this chamber, cre- ating a den for themselves.
The winged creatures are two shedu (see appendix B). As with most of the other creatures aboard, these were freed from stasis, but in this case due to a malfunctioning worker robot. The ship’s malfunctioning hyper-dimen- sional force fields prevent their escape by plane shifting, and they fear to travel around the ship, for they know it has very dangerous creatures. The hold they are in ex- tends under the tiers of seats (dotted line shows this ex- tension) in the swimming pool area, and the two shedu dwell in this hidden area, using the small north door for occasional forays.
Developments. If the party is friendly and promises to show them how to get out of the ship immediately, the shedu will tell them where their treasure is (see be- low), and warn them that there is a mind flayer loose in the west of the level (“in the large hall-with-many-seats area”). If the party is non-friendly (such as having greedy or self-serving intentions, known to the shedu by the use of detect thoughts), the creatures will tend to ignore the party. If they are attacked, the shedu will use mind blasts and ¢elekinesis (although they hate to do so in this place) to defend themselves.
Once attacked, the shedu will never befriend any mem- ber of the party. They will flee if the encounter is likely to bring them to certain destruction.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Treasure. High up in the piled containers and hidden in a narrow gap between them are six power discs (see ap- pendix C) and a red card. A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check is necessary to notice them.
AREA 12 -WORKOUT AREA
This is clearly a torture chamber. Machines designed to stretch the human boaly into unnatural positions are arranged about the room. Tuo of the walls are covered with reflective glass so that the tortur- ers might not miss a single grimace of pain on their victims’ faces.
This room provided exercise equipment of mechanical nature, weights, etc. These machines and apparatus line the walls. The room is occupied by a dangerous, deranged android: a malfunctioning weightlifting physical train- ing android (see appendix B; use Handout #50).
AAs soon as the party enters the android will spring into action. There are a number of plates for barbells, dumb- bells, and other heavy objects nearby, and the android will hurl these at the party. All the while the android is throwing these objects it will be shouting in Alien Com- mon: “WORK UP A SWEAT THERE!”, “CATCH! Butterfingers!”, “LET’S HAVE SOME HUSTLE!”, and “You'll never make the team THAT way!”
Treasure. If the android is disabled and taken apart, a work- able language translator (see appendix C) will be gained.
AREA 13 —- TRAPPED ANDROID AND GASBATS
Numerous oversized crates and cylindrical containers occupy this large chamber, many of which have shifted and now lie broken and battered on the floor. In the air overhead, a few dozen curious bat-like creatures drift about like dandelion fluff on a breeze. Oc- casionally, one rockets eff, propelled by a flatulent blast.
There are 40 gasbats (use Handout #44; see sidebar near Level IV, area 19) in this room. They enter and emerge from the hold via a small opening high in the east wall (a plate blasted away and never noticed). A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the hole, which leads to the corridor outside between this area and the workout room.
This room also contains a trapped android (see appen- dix B). The android is pinned under a very heavy crate which shifted and trapped it. It has been thus for many, many years, and it has shut itself down and only comes
to alert when noise occurs nearby. The worker robots ig-
nore it. It was a bodyguard for an important political of f- cial aboard, and when its master went insane, it followed him in his wandering. Eventually, the human died, here in a narrow aisle of the cargo hold, and as the android was carrying the body out the accident occurred.
Development. When the party comes near it, the an- droid will call weakly for help, slowly moving an empty laser pistol back and forth as its circuits warm up from its self-induced shutdown. If the party does not attack it, the android can be freed and enlisted as a bodyguard for its rescuers. Naturally, any damage it sustains can never be regained as the repair section for androids is not part of this module of the ship.
Treasure. The skeleton of the official is nearby. Amidst its tattered rags is a belt with a gray card, a power disc (see appendix C), and 20 gems (100 gp each).
AREA 14 —- RUBBISH PILE
A large heap of moldy cloth, rotting foodstuffs, and other decaying organic matter is piled here behind the tattered curtain, Several large fungi have sprouted from the rubbish pile along with smaller toadstools and mushrooms.
The atea has been filled with rubbish and materials for these creatures to feed on by the mind flayer (see area 15 below). The trash has sprouted five shriekers. These fungi, and some others growing in the humus, attract other creatures as well, so waiting above are four pierc- ers of huge size (maximum hit points).
Development. The noise of the shriekers alerts the piercers, and the mind flayer in area 15 as well.
AREA 15- THE MIND FLAYER
Racks of clothing, some of which are outlandish, while others re- semble typical dress, fill one half of this chamber. A trio of tables, cach with a mirror facing it, are arranged across the south wall of the room. A pile of clothing lies against the west wall and appears to be an improvised bed.
This room served as both costume storage and dressing room for the theater, but is now home to the ship’s mind flayer. It is likely that this creature was taken on some other world, perhaps whatever bizarre distant planet that spawned its race. Once kept in stasis, it was recently freed and is both exploring the ship and searching for a means to return home.
There is a 10% chance the mind flayer isn’t present in
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
this room when the party discovers it. If it is away, the mind flayer is checking up on the shedu in area 11, which it hates and fears. There is a 20% chance it returns each minute the party remains in this room.
The mind flayer owns an orange card and, in addition to its normal abilities, carries a blaster pistol with 1 charge left, one poison grenade, and two sleep gas grenades. See appendix C for these devices.
Developments. As soon as the mind flayer hears the shriekers in area 14 or sees intruders, the monster will attack. Show Handout #53. Initially, it will use its blast- er and grenades against the party. If given warning, the mind flayer will set up its portable spotlight (see appen- dix C), with a trip cord by the north door, and the light facing that entrance (the spotlight itself is located mid- way between the north door and the entrance to area 15). Unless one of the party succeeds on a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check when entering through that door, the spotlight activates and all PCs facing in its direction must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or be blind- ed for 1 minute. Blinded creatures can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themselves on a success.
The mind flayer will then cut loose with its blaster and
hurl grenades. Range disadvantage due to spotlight. If all its op
attacks against the creature have its position behind the blinding ponents are not killed by this first
barrage, it heads east through the theater. From there, it cuts around to the auditorium, entering through the audi-
torium’s south service Sneaking up from bel
doors (staying behind the curtain). ind, the mind flayer will give the
party a mind blast in hopes of finishing them off.
Treasure. In addition to its found weapons and color
card, the mind flayer
as accumulated the portable spot-
light, 37 gems (10 gp each), five pieces of jewelry (1d6 x 1,000 gp each), and 109 pp. It carries all its wealth except for the spotlight, which is stored in this area if not in position to blind intruders.
AREA 16-STASIS CAGE CARGO HOLD
Ten large altar-like structures are present here, each rising some 10
feet above the floor and perched atop three sturdy legs. The altars are 10 feet in diameter and bowl-shaped. Four odd-looking bent pylons loom over each of the bowls, ending in disks with spear-like protrusions in their centers.
DM Note: If the party hasn’t inadvertently freed the bu- lette by messing with the computer, add the following:
Atop an altar is a huge tapered bodied creature covered in armor
Plates. It appears to be dead.
Show Handout #51. This cargo hold is nearly empty, for it contained many stasis cages, and the six worker robots (see appendix B) present here have been periodically or- dered to unload such by the computer. They are shut down now, although the computer can reactivate them at any time. Developments. If the party enters the hold there is a 1 in 10 chance per minute they spend here that the computer reactivates the worker robots! If it occurs, the robots will grind to action, tossing the characters out through the open cargo hatch. If they resist, or attempt to re-enter, the workers will summon 1d4 + 4 other worker robots to aid them, as well as 1d4 + 1 police robots (see ap- pendix B for both). These reinforcements will arrive in 2 minutes, with the worker robots entering the fray after 1
minute and the police robots arriving a minute after that. When the characters are all out of the hold, the robots will toss out a stasis cage containing the bulette, and shut the hatch. (Show Handout #52.) The bulette will be out of stasis the next round.
VARIOUS EXPLANATORY MATERIAL IS FOUND HEREAFTER IN THE APPENDICES.
This completes the EXPEDITION TO THE BAR- RIER PEAKS. We hope you and your players have found it amusing and challenging!
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
CHAPTER FOUR
Adventure Alternatives and Expansions
ALTERNATE BEGINNING
The original Expedition to the Barrier Peaks includes a de- tailed background for getting the party involved in the events of the adventure as well as providing hints as to what they might be facing. This background and in- troduction is rooted heavily in the campaign setting of Greyhawk, however, and might not be suitable for Dun- geon Masters wishing to run the adventure in other Dun- geons & Dragons worlds. The following background and beginning section is provided for those DMs to utilize or use as a starting point for their own customized cam- paign hooks.
A rash of mysterious raids have struck the lands beneath the soaring Barrier Peaks, sowing fear in the hearts of peasant and potentate alike. While the foreboding mountains have long been re- nowned as home to fearsome beasts and tribes of savage humanoids, for many generations the Barrier Peaks have remained quiet. Now, without warning, new threats have emerged.
Within the last few months, a walled town not far from the moun- tain range’ foothills along with four small fortresses have been destroyed in mysterious attacks. The remaining barons and lords in the region have preserved in brine several partially decomposed corpses found at the scene of the ravaging. Despite the best efforts of the finest sages and wizards in the realm, the identities of these attackers remain a mystery. Many of the bodies were too far gone or damaged in battle to provide even scant clues as to who or what
spawned them.
Faced with unknown forces capable of destroying even fortified towns, the local rulers have sent the word out that mighty heroes are needed to root out and destroy this menace. Heralds have been dispatched to neighboring kingdoms and hired messengers spread the news in every tavern and gambling house within 100 miles of the Barrier Peaks. Many heard the call, but only a few answered. You are those doughty souls, the most powerful and experienced heroes in the region.
Gathered before an august assembly of dukes, counts, clergy, and wizards, you were briefed with what few facts were known:
There were several unconfirmed reports that monsters have been disgorged from a gated cave in the mountains at random intervals. The entrance to this place ts high upon a rocky face, and sheathed in armor. This protection has purportedly frustrated all attempts to explore the space beyond the metal door—although several scouting parties sent to reconnoiter the area have entirely disappeared, so it is possible they entered and never returned.
Your expedition must locate this cave, discover why the monsters are coming forth, who is responsible, and how to prevent further incur- sions. In addition, any other information regarding this mysterious locale, its strange denizens, magical might, or powerful weaponry is highly desirable. Any wealth discovered within the cave that does not directly pertain to the above goals is lanful plunder and can be claimed without taxation by the expedition. In addition, a revard of 10,000 gold pieces is offered should the expedition succeed in all
their assigned endeavors.
Your party set forth a week ago and for the past two days have been climbing higher into the crags of the Barrier Peaks. Last night was spent in the keep of the only baron remaining in the area—and he was fulsome glad for your company and the purpose of your mission. To this end, the lord has dispatched a score of his men-at- arms to guide you to the site of the mysterious cave.
It is now afternoon and you have set up camp in a hidden dell but a mile from the strange entrance. The men-at-arms have orders from their lord to guard your supplies and mounts at the camp while you go formard immediately. They will await your return for four full days before returning to the keep. Gathering your personal gear, jou are now climbing the steep slope to the dell’s north side, passing the rim and forcing your way through the dense growth of trees and undergrowth. There, across a field and beyond a rocky rise, awaits adventure...
ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND
Invasion}
The attacks on the outlying fortresses near the crashed spaceship are due to two factors. Some of the unorgan- ized raids are the result of the ship’s computer order-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
o
Faction InTEREsts
Some DMs and players desire more personal motivations when creating adventure hooks. Not every adventurer is motivated by wealth and danger—and this is especially so in the case of higher-level player characters. In these cases, membership in one of the campaign world’s factions can be used to motivate the PCs and give them a deeper sense of purpose besides yet another heap of gold coins and jewels.
This section includes reasons why a faction might be interested in sponsoring an expedition to the Barrier Peaks.
The default factions of the Forgotten Realms are used as examples of an organization’s “type” but other campaign world equivalents can be substituted as necessary.
* Local rulers (The Lords’ Alliance): An organization or faction of this type has the same interests as described in both the original and alternate backgrounds: an unknown force threatens the people they’re charged with ruling and protecting.
* Religious defenders and/or knightly orders (The Order of the Gauntlet): Vows to protect the weak or thwart the forces of evil wherever they might oppose peace and order drive the members of this type of organization to launch a crusade against the evil dwelling in the mountains.
+ Nature-oriented groups (The Emerald Enclave): The higher-ups in such an organization have seen the preserved remains of the attackers and determined that these are clearly perversions of nature. Something or someone is corrupting the natural order and they need to be stopped. The expedition is sent to restore the natural balance.
* Clandestine organization for good (The Harpers): Secrecy is used to battle secrecy and it is clear from the sudden attacks that an evil force has clandestinely assembled in the Barrier Peaks. Whether this is a new danger or just the latest gambit from one of the goodly-aligned organization’s enemies needs to be investigated.
* Trade or mercantile groups (The Zhentarim): Armed conflict is both a benefit and a threat to business, depending on who you're supplying and with what. The attacks from the Barrier Peaks are either a threat to be staunched or an opportunity to be exploited. And given that the attackers destroyed walled towns and watchtowers, they pos- sibly have powerful magic that could be turned to the faction’s advantage. An investigation into the mysterious attackers is warranted immediately.
e e ing that species in stasis be awakened and set free. These lic menace’s mission is being supported by a number of confused alien beasts, set loose in an unfamiliar environ- android overseers and curious vat-grown biological en- ment, attack out of hunger and fear. However, there is tities—a sort of disposable life-form used for labor and another force at work. servitude. It is this pacification force which destroyed the
The spaceship was launched to colonize a new world, fortresses near the spaceship and threatens the nearby
one that was known to be capable of supporting life. Since the colonists could not know what dangers might Due to corrupted programming, the pacifier robot is
regions.
await them on the new world, the ship was equipped with behaving more aggressively than its programmers origi- a number of pacifier robots. These robots were designed nally intended and has traveled outside its intended pa- to establish a defensive perimeter around the initial colo- trol zone. Its support troops have followed along with it, ny sites, destroying dangerous indigenous life-forms and impelled by their own damaged programming or simple, taking measures to prevent the colonists from coming to near-mindless obedience. So long as the pacifier robot harm. is active, the raids will continue and the threat to nearby
civilization remains. The party can stop the attacks by ei- ther destroying or rendering the pacifier robot inert. This can be done both directly (attacking the robot and its support troops) or indirectly (shutting down the robot’s
In recent months, a programming “hiccup” in the cen- tral computer initiated “patrol and pacify” protocols and dispatched a pacifier robot to secure the area. The metal-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
control computer aboard the spaceship). Of course, causing the destruction of the entire ship also ends the invasion threat.
ALTERNATE ENDING
The adventure as written sets a four-day duration for the expedition. After that time, the party’s assigned men-at- arms have orders to depart, taking their mounts and sup- plies with them. In the original convention game version of the adventure, having a ticking clock motivates the players to move fast and explore as much as the ship as
possible.
If the DM is intending to use Expedition to the Barrier Peaks as part of an ongoing campaign, the party might not feel obligated to adhere to the four-day time limit and want to engage in a prolonged exploration—and looting—of the spaceship or desire to return to it again and again until all the technology has been discovered and is now in the
PCs’ possession. While admirable and understandable, the adventure was not intended to be a way for the party to become overpowered with alien technology.
The following event is provided should the DM wish to make the spaceship inaccessible to the party and also al- low them to fulfill the original mission they were sent to accomplish in the Barrier Peaks.
When the time comes to end the party’s expedition—as decided by the DM or after the player characters have wreaked sizable havoc inside the spaceship—read the following:
Suddenly, the air is filled mith a loud noise as a shrill blaring horn sounds repeatedly. Red lights on the walls and ceiling suddenly spring to life, bathing the area in a hellish glom A voice, speaking calmly in an unknown language, addresses you from an unseen source. Faintly, you feel a rumble beneath your feet as if the earth has shifted briefly, then ceased.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
If the party is able to translate the voice, it is saying the following in Alien Common:
“Attention passengers and crew: the main computer has detected a malfunction in this section’s power cores and catastrophic failure ts 89.9% probable. For your safety, please report to_your nearest emergency evacuation station and prepare for Escape Protocol Al- pha. Thank you.”
This message repeats every three minutes for one hour. After that time, the message changes to the following:
“Aitention passengers and crew: All containment precautions have failed and unstable reaction is imminent. Estimate time to catastro- phe is 33 minutes. For your safety, report to your nearest emergency
evacuation station immediately. Continued life support is not guar-
anteed beyond the estimated 33-minute window and all passengers and crew must vacate the ship before that time. Thank you.”
This message repeats every two minutes for 30 minutes. At that time, the spaceship’s power cores fail completely and the ship is consumed in a massive explosion that de- stroys it and its contents entirely.
Anyone still within the spaceship at the time of the ex- plosion must make a DC 25 Constitution saving throw, taking 132 (24d10) fire damage plus 55 (10d10) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Any creature reduced to 0 hit points by the explosion is killed and their body and all possessions incinerated in the blast. A creature that survives the ex- plosion is thrown clear of the ship and lands outside the smoking crater that was once the buried spaceship.
Any survivors are now free to return to their employers and report truthfully that the threat lurking in the Barrier Peaks has been successfully dealt with and no longer will unknown forces be troubling the outlying lands.
Of course, these same employers may be extremely in- terested in the strange treasures the party returned with and might confiscate them “for further study by our sages and wizards” if the DM doesn’t wish a group of laser-armed adventurers running roughshod across the campaign world...
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
CHAPTER FIVE
The Crash Site Environs
n the original module, the adventure begins with the
party immediately outside the entrance to the space-
ship, a product of its convention game origins. The included background of the converted version of the adventure likewise skips over the fine details of traveling to the Barrier Peaks and the characters’ interactions with the residents of that land.
Likewise, although much is made of the mysterious at- tackers that are ravaging the land on the border of the Barrier Peaks, the identities, motivations, or other details are left undeveloped. The Dungeon Master is assumed to believe they are former denizens of the spaceship, now released from stasis and freed from the vessel, rampaging with abandon and that a thorough exploration and loot- ing of the starcraft puts an end to the menace.
Neither of these methods may be desirable for some DMs and their players, especially if the adventure is be- ing inserted into an ongoing campaign instead of being enjoyed as a “one-shot” style scenario. This section fur- ther fleshes out the area in the immediate vicinity of the spaceship and provides more details on the unknown raiders and their base of operation, as well as some en- counters not directly connected to the space vessel.
This section is entirely optional and the DM should weigh carefully the pros and cons of including it in their campaign. While it provides for a deeper backstory and more adventure, it also potentially tips the DM’s hand about the identify and origins of the unknown attackers, reducing the impact of discovering that the mysterious cave the party is sent to investigate is actually a futuristic spaceship and not an ordinary dungeon.
GENERAL FEATURES
Terrain. The Barrier Peaks is a chain of rugged, steep mountains occasionally interrupted by narrow valleys and dells carved out by streams and tributary rivers. Small woods comprised of pine trees, aspens, and the occasional deciduous tree in the lower river valleys scrape out a meager existence in the high altitudes of the moun-
tains. During summer months, thunderstorms are com- mon, and flash floods are always a danger.
Travel. The high peaks and jagged terrain make direct overland travel impossible, limiting ground movement to the valleys and dells. Few trails aside from animal paths are present in the Barrier Peaks, further complicating travel. Travel in the Barrier Peaks is considered to be through difficult terrain.
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS
The DM should check for random encounters once dur- ing the day and once whenever the party takes a long rest. Roll 1d20 and on a result of 18 or higher, a random en- counter occurs. Roll a d12 + d8, total the results of both dice, and consult the table below to determine the nature of the encounter:
Result Encounter
2 Siren
3 Android
4 Adult blue dragon
5 Curious metal fragment
6 Rockslide
ga Basilisks
8 Type two biological entities 9 Type one biological entities 10 Type one biological entities 11 Type two biological entities 12 Cave bears
13 Hill giants
14 Giant goats
15 Ettin
16 Bulette
17 Rockslide
18 Purple worm
19 Stone giant
20 Siren
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ADULT BLUE DRAGON
This is the adult blue dragon Ninyoldah (see area 1-4) out hunting. If the party is comprised of 10 or fewer creatures including mounts, the dragon passes by over- head without incident. A group with more than that number, or if one or more of its members is flying, is im- mediately noticed and attacked by the dragon. Ninyoldah fights until reduced to less than 50 hit points, then flees to her lair by a round-about route to confuse pursuit.
ANDROID
This single android (see appendix B) is a scout for the pacifier robot and its troops. It is equipped with a nee- dler and a sleep gas grenade (see appendix C for both). It attempts to keep itself hidden and observe the party’s movements, using its gas grenade to cover its escape if spotted. If it escapes, it heads immediately to area 1-6 to report in and may inadvertently lead pursuers to the horde’s encampment.
BASILISKS
The sound of clattering rocks from an outcrop above them alerts the party that something is nearby. Up to a trio (1d3) of hungry basilisks have been attracted by the scent of the party or their mounts and are preparing to attack. If any of the PCs looks upward towards the sound of the noise, they see one or more basilisks staring down at them from atop the rocky ledge and are imme- diately subjected to the monsters’ Petrifying Gaze trait. The basilisks then leap down from the ledge and attack.
BULETTE
The party hears an animal crying from beyond a low ridge. If they investigate, they discover a giant mountain goat with a broken leg struggling across a shallow dell, clearly in distress. Three rounds after the party sights the goat, the ground neat it suddenly churns and shifts as a bulette bursts from the stony soil, drawn by the in- jured goat. If the party is near the goat, perhaps driven
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
by sympathy to aid it, the land shark decides the party makes a better meal than the goat. Otherwise, the crea- ture snaps up the injured animal in its jaws, then burrows back into the ground. The bulette remains in the area for another 1d4 minutes. Any movement by the party during this time attracts its attention and it reemerges to try and devour the moving PC(s).
CAVE BEARS
A mother cave bear (stats as polar bear) is looking for food with its cub (stats as black bear) close by. The bears likely avoid trouble but if any creature attempts to interact with or harm the cub, the mother bear viciously and fearlessly attacks the threatening creature.
CURIOUS METAL FRAGMENT
A shield-sized piece of jagged metal is discovered almost entirely buried in the rocky soil. Strange characters are etched into the metal, indecipherable to the party. If a comprehend languages spell is employed, the words reveal themselves to read “Trans-Plutonian Spaceyard #5791.” The meaning of the phrase escapes even the smartest character. If more fragments are discovered later, they are of similar size but lack any etchings. These are of course pieces that came loose from the spaceship upon its arrival on the planet, but have only recently been un- covered by the earth tremors.
ETTIN
A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check hears a pair of loud voices arguing among themselves and head- ing in the party’s direction. The voices are speaking Gi- ant and are debating whether to head up higher into the mountains to hunt mountain goats or go down to the river to fish for eels. The voices are from a single ettin. If the giant creature sees the party, it comes to an agree- ment to eat the party instead.
GIANT GOATS
The party inadvertently comes across a small herd of 2d8 giant goats as they make their way through the steep foothills. Half the herd is comprised of aggressive adult males who see the party as a threat. The males charge the intruders while the rest of the herd’s females and ba- bies flee to higher ground. The males fight for 1d6 + 2 rounds or until the party is driven off. After that time, any surviving males run off to rejoin the rest of the herd at a more inaccessible location further up the mountain.
HILL GIANTS
A band of 1d6 hill giants from the foothills of the Bar- rier Peaks, these brutes have come higher into the moun- tains looking for food and loot. The patty presents an opportunity for both. The hill giants have no knowledge of the pacifier robot and its troops but might serve as a red herring if the party hasn’t yet deduced that far stran- ger creatures than giants are behind the recent attacks,
PURPLE WORM
The tramping of the horde’s feet and the recent earth- quakes have attracted a purple worm close to the sur- face to hunt. The ground trembles for 2 rounds before it suddenly bursts from below to attack. If the entire party is flying, the worm doesn’t detect their presence and the rumbling earth subsides after a few moments.
ROCKSLIDE
Loose stones and soil give way as the party passes below a high slope. Every creature in the group must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, suffering 11 (2d10) bludg- eoning damage and being knocked prone on a failed save, or taking only half as much damage and avoiding being knocked off their feet on a successful one. If a creature is mounted and their mount fails it save, the riding crea- ture has disadvantage on its Dexterity saving throw:
SIREN
A loud blaring noise sounds from the direction of the spaceship. It repeats five times then stops. This is an alert siren that sounds whenever the cargo door to area 16 on Level VI opens (see chapter 3). A creature within five hexes of the spaceship can automatically determine what direction the noise comes from. Individuals further off must succeed on a Wisdom (Perception) check against a DC equal to 5 plus 1 for each additional hex distance away from the crashed ship to correctly identify what di- rection the sound comes from.
STONE GIANT
This stone giant is one of the clan found at area 1-7. It too was ona “dream walk” (see that area description for more details) and is returning to its home. It is unaware of the death of the clan patriarch or the presence of the pacifier robot and its troops. It will try to avoid an obvi- ously strong party, but fights if attacked, preferring to toss boulders from a distance.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
TYPE ONE BIOLOGICAL ENTITIES
This squad of artificially gestated humanoids, 2d4 type one biological entities (see appendix B), has either got- ten lost from the main body and is trying to find the rest of the horde or is riddled with defects from the cloning process and have gone rogue. In either case, the nearly mindless and violence-prone beings attack anything the come across.
TYPE TWO BIOLOGICAL ENTITIES
These artificial troops, 1d4 type two biological entities (see appendix B), are engaged in “softening” missions to prepare the battlefield and deal with potential guerilla activity ahead of the horde’s advancement. They attack anything they encounter and do not flee battle.
ENCOUNTER AREAS
The following key describes set encounters located throughout the crash site environs. Please refer to map 1 for the location hex of each of these set pieces. Some of the encounter areas have their own maps, as described in the text.
AREA 1-1 — THE BARON’S KEEP
A motte-and-bailey style castle is positioned atop a craggy hill over- looking the land. Three sides of the hill are steep and jagged, while a narrow trail winds up the southern side to a stone gatehouse. The bailey wall is made from a mixture of stone and sharpened tim- bers. A green and white pennant flaps atop the keep in the whistling mountain winds. Men in steel caps and leather cuirasses are visible atop the gatehouse.
This is the keep of Baron Urhar, the Warden of the Northern Watches. He and his men are charged with de- fending the border which runs along the Tumbledown River to the west. He is also the last Warden left standing in the wake of the recent attacks and was responsible for requesting the aid the party now delivers.
The keep houses 200 men along with the Baron and his wife, the Baroness Elesha. The atmosphere at the castle is one of tension and dread, with the Baron and his forces expecting an attack at any moment. The party is challenged if they approach the gatehouse, but welcomed warmly if they announce they’ve been sent to deal with the attackers at the behest of the local potentates or faction leaders. The Baron, a NG human veteran, offers the party quarters for the night and holds a feast in their honor.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The Baron is in his late thirties, a former soldier who earned his title through battlefield victories. He is bald- ing with a dark fringe of hair remaining, tall and broad of build, and speaks plainly, especially to fellow warriors. Baroness Elesha is short of stature and of hearty consti- tution. She keeps her curly dark hair bound in braids and possesses keen insight into the motivation of others. Her martiage to the Baron was one of convenience, but she is fond of the “Old Soldier” and his rule would be far more troublesome without her advice and shrewd mind. The Baroness is more polite and etiquette-bound than her husband, always looking to raise his (and her) stand- ing in the eyes of nobles from the more civilized lands to the south and east.
Developments. Baton Urhar can provide assistance to the party during their explorations of the area. So long as they don’t make impossible demands or wear out their welcome, the party is provided with rooms and stabling for their mounts whenever present at the castle. The Bar- on can give directions to the nearest attacked castle (area 1-3) and provide a scout to lead the adventurers there if they decide to investigate.
If the DM wishes to encourage a period of wilderness exploration, the Baron tells the adventurers that he’s un- certain of the location of the cave the party seeks and knows only that the attackers have come from the far- thest side of the Tumbledown River. The party will have to search the region on their own. However, should the DM wish to speed up the discovery of the spaceship’s entrance, the Baron’s scouts have instead located both the cave (area 1-12) and the invaders’ current encamp- ment (area 1-6) and can provide directions to each. A successful DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check also con- vinces the Baron to lend troops to the adventurers as back-up and to guard their mounts and supplies when they enter the cave. A cadre of 20 guards is loaned to the party as this is all the Baron can spare while still mak- ing sure the castle is defended. These men-at-arms have orders to assist the party as they travel and to watch over their camp while they explore the cave, but they are to head back no later than four days after the expedition discovers the cave. The chances of attack are too great to spate the guards longer than this.
Y— WHAT THE BARON KNOWS
—e
The party will likely ask Baron Urhar what he knows about the attacks and what might be responsible for them. While the Baron has not directly observed the attackers, he and his men did ride to the aid of his neighbor when they saw smoke, but arrived too late to help. They did make a few observations upon teach- ing the destroyed castle and can tell the party the fol- lowing:
* There were few tracks at the site of the closest sacked stronghold (area 1-3). His scout did find several footprints made by bare bestial feet unlike any he’s ever seen. There were also at least two sets of human-sized footprints made by creatures wear- ing strange striated-soled footwear (rubber treads on the bottom of the androids’ futuristic boots).
* Many of the bodies bore burn marks as if stabbed with hot pokers. Others were set ablaze entirely. Still others were hacked by edged weapons. A few corpses showed signs of broken bones and crushed skulls that more resembled the injuries one might get from falling a great distance (these unfortunate souls were hurled about by the pacifier robot’s trac- tor/repulsion beams).
* The attack didn’t appear to be driven by greed as several piles of melted coins were discovered and the bodies were not stripped of valuables and gear. It appears as if the attack was launched to destroy the target entirely rather than raid them for loot.
* The Baron warns the party that a large blue dragon has been sighted on numerous occasions on the western side of the Tumbledown River, but it has so far left the Baronand his troops alone. Although far from an expert on such things, the damage the Baron discovered at the sacked keep, while great, does not appear to be caused by a dragon.
e ® AREA 1-2 - THE TUMBLEDOWN RIVER
Ai fast-moving creek. rushes through a stone-choked river valley, frothing and misting as it passes through the rapids. The river is narrow and a strong person could throw a spear from one bank. to the other, but the current looks fast and the spray is cold against your skin.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The Tumbledown marks the northern border of the kingdom and beyond is ungoverned wilderness. No bridge or ford exists to cross it, and a patty wishing to explore the wilderlands must carefully make their way across the rushing and rapid-filled waters.
A successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check allows a creature to leap from rock to rock and make it across the 20-foot-wide and 3-foot- deep waters. Wading through the river waters is more dif- ficult and requires a successful DC 20 Strength (Athlet- ics) check to avoid being swept off one’s feet and carried along downstream. Various magical spells make crossing a simple matter and may be required to get the party’s mounts and supplies across. A successful DC 15 Intel- ligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check, along with 1d4 hours of scouting, discovers a stretch of the river where crossing is less dangerous and all DCs to cross the river are reduced by 10.
A failed ability check to cross the river results in the crea- ture having to make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and 4 (1d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one, as it is swept away by the river and bat- tered against stones and immersed in its frigid waters. It is carried 30 feet downstream by the fast-moving wa- ters as well. The creature can attempt a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check at the start of each of its turns to grab a boulder or swim to shore and escape the river. If this check failed, they must repeat the DC 14 Dexterity sav- ing throw at the end of each of their turns until they escape the river's grasp.
If the party scouts about to locate a better crossing point, they discover a battered and waterlogged corpse half- submerged along the rocky shore of the river. It is the body of a 6-foot-tall muscular humanoid with animal- istic features. It has bat-like ears and short muzzle, with canine rear legs with clawed feet. It is dressed in torn dirty pants and nothing else. The corpse is grievously in- jured with many broken bones and a crushed skull, and appeats to have drowned. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check determines the creature has been in the river for several days, but no longer than a week, and died by drowning. The other injuries were probably caused by the body hurtling down the rapids and being broken on the rocks. No manner of skill check or nonmagical research can determine what this creature was. Its species is entirely unknown to any of the characters.
This corpse is that of a type one biological entity who went rogue and headed off into the mountains by itself. It discovered the Baron’s Keep, but slipped while cross- ing the river trying to get to the stronghold and drowned.
DM Note: If the adventure is set in the World of Grey- hawk, the Tumbledown River is a small river that flows south out of the mountains into the Hornwood in the Grand Duchy of Geoff. Its small size and little impor-
tance means it is not represented on any known maps the PCs (or the DM!) might have access to.
AREA 1-3 - SACKED KEEP
Ai thoroughly scorched and half-demolished stone keep is visible atop a stony mound. The charred stumps of a timber palisade protrude from the ground, evidence that the keep was once part of a motte-and-bailey castle. T he rocky ground shows little in the way of
footprints and the air bears only the lonesome cry of some mountain bird in the distance.
This castle was the first attacked by the raiders from the spaceship who followed the Tumbledown River south when they came upon it (thereby sparing Baron Urhar’s castle from destruction). The keep is a charred ruin, gut- ted by fire and half its walls toppled by powerful blasts of some sort. Scorched bones in the bailey and a line of weeks-old graves at the base of the mound are all that remain of the castle’s occupants.
A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check determines that the rocky ground \eirhtie trace of the attackers, but does discover a curious footprint within the bailey—a pair of unshod and clawed humanoid feet directly facing a pair of booted footprints with strange ridged marks on the soles. From their position, it appears as if the two creatures were facing one another and perhaps convers- ing. These prints were left by an android overseer giving orders to a type one biological entity after the attack was over.
A DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check while exam- ining the destroyed keep discerns that the fire seems to have been started by a concentrated blast of heat similar to a tay rather than something like a red dragon’s breath. The toppled stones are devoid of forceful marks one might expect from a ram or other siege equipment and instead appear to have been carefully maneuvered out of place like through the use of levitation or similar magi- cal movement (they were knocked over by the pacifier robot’s tractor/repulsion beams, but there’s no way from the party to know this... yet).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
KEY to THE DRAGOTNI’S LAIR (mAP 2)
AREA 1-4 —- NINYOLDAH’S LAIR
A wide cave mouth is visible in the side of one of the soaring peaks. The cavern entrance és lacated high up on the mountain, perhaps 600 feet above you. The slope is steep and covered mith spills of loose gravel and soil. A few giant goat bones are mixed in among the stones.
The blue dragon Ninyoldah makes her lair here. The magnificent azure creature has so far tolerated the pres- ence of the humans across the river as they don’t venture into her lands, but the dragon becomes enraged if she spies any creature intruding in her skies. The party might accidentally enter her cave complex while searching the mountains or to purposely slay the wyrm.
AREA 1-4A —- FRONT CAVE
A massive cave measuring more than 100 feet in diameter and with a soaring 60-foot-high ceiling studded nith stalactites exists at the bottom of a sloping passage. The cavern floor was once a forest of stalagmites, but they appear to have been broken off or worn down purposely. The stone walls glitter with minerals and dark veins of purple-red deposits are visible running throughout the rock. The air here is rank, tinged with an unfamiliar odor.
Two cloakers dwell in this cave as part of symbiotic re- lationship with Ninyoldah. The dragon brings additional prey to feed the aberrations and they in turn provide warnings if intruders start sniffing around the dragon’s den. The cloakers attack anyone entering the cave once they’ve gotten halfway or more into the cavern, using their Moan action on the first round to both soften up prey and warn the dragon. Ninyoldah is always at home unless the party has defeated her during a random en- counter.
a q = 10 ft.
2 Stalagmite “Stump”
® intact Stalagmite
1 Treasure Hoard
Gee
{GP Egg Fragments
f Up
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The purple-red deposits are that of a rare ferrous ore known to dwarves as Aghtning stone. The mineral’s curious properties are the reason the blue dragon chose these caves as het home. See sidebar for further details.
A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Nature) identifies the stink in the air: dragon scent!
e ® LiGHTnNinG stone
This mineral is highly conductive and natural deposits of it exposed to the open sky tend to attract lightning, giving the substance its name. Lighting stone can be identified with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Na- ture) check or a DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
Electrical energy generated in the presence of lighting stone tends to arc from deposit to deposit, amplify- ing its strength and increasing its area of effect. Even a simple cantrip like shocking grasp causes stray sparks to leap from the caster’s hand to crackle through the ore. Unleashing a /ightning bolt near a large deposit cre- ates a storm of electricity that is both beautiful and terrifying. Due to this property, direct attacks become more diffuse, which both makes them more difficult to resist and delivers additional harm, but also makes it difficult to damage the surrounding stone (the elec- tricity is redirected rather than concentrated on a spe- cific point).
All creatures in an area with heavy lighting stone con- centrations have disadvantage on any saving throw made to resist the effects of an attack or spell that deals lightning damage. In addition, the attack deliv- ers an additional 1 lighting damage per die of damage inflicted. A shocking grasp cantrip would cause 1d8 + 1 lighting damage while Ninyoldah’s breath weapon deals a formidable 12d10 + 12 lighting damage, for example.
Lightning stone is valuable and there is 8,000 gp worth of the ore in the dragon’s lair. Every 1,000 gp of ore requires one week of excavation and generates 200 pounds of marketable lighting stone.
AREA 1-4B - SHOOTING GALLERY
A long 20-foot-wide, 30-foot-high passage descends deeper into the mountain. Stubs and stumps of stalagnites and stalactites are pre- sent, but have clearly been intentionally broken to clear the passage. The walls, floor, and ceiling are striated with more purple-red min- erals and the veins seem to run everywhere.
This passage is potentially a deadly trap for intruders. If the cloakers in area 1-4A used their Moan action, their cries echoed down to Ninyoldah’s den and the dragon is aware of intruders and thieves. She is ready to unleash her lighting breath down this passage as soon as she sees signs of the invaders (light sources coming from around the turn in the tunnel, for example).
Due to the curious nature of the lightning stone, the dragon’s breath weapon turns into a 60-foot-diameter sphere from its point of impact (the most probable point of impact is shown on the lair map) as the electricity be- gins arcing from ore deposit to ore deposit, turning this passage into an indoor lighting storm. All creatures in the sphere must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw at disadvantage, taking 78 (12d10 + 12) lighting damage on a failed save, or half was much on a successful one.
Developments. After the lighting blast, Ninyoldah calls down the passage in a deep voice speaking Draconic, ‘Such to all whom traipses across my threshold. Turn back, little serpents lest I burn you again. This is your only warning.”
Unless the party immediately departs or successfully con- vinces the dragon to parley with them (which requires a successful DC 20 Charisma [Persuasion] or Charisma [Deception] check), Ninyoldah repeats her lighting blast as soon as it recharges.
A party that successfully convinces Ninyoldah to stay her attacks and speak with them is spared another lighting breath attack, but the dragon commands them to remain in area 1-4B while they talk. If the party persists in mov- ing down the corridor to her lair, negotiations are over and the dragon uses her lightning breath as soon as pos- sible. If the party gets as far as area 1-4C, the dragon attacks using all her available means, seeking to slaughter the intruders.
Should the party stay put in the incredibly dangerous tunnel, the dragon is open to conversing with them. She is hostile to the interlopers, however. The dragon has witnessed the attacks on the border keeps over the past eight weeks, observing them from high in the air as she hunted. The destruction has been highly entertaining
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
and it’s so seldom she enjoys a good laugh these days. As such, and since the attackers haven’t had the temerity of intruding upon her, she’s seen no reason to interfere with them.
A successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma (Deception) check convinces the dragon to reveal that the attackers are a strange mix, comprised of both men and humanoid creatures that she’s never seen before. These weird new humanoids seem to possess the charac- teristics of both men and beasts. Additionally, the horde bears a floating “altar” of metal before them and she’s seen this object unleash fire and death on the forts, deal- ing damage to an extent that even the dragon was im- pressed. Ninyoldah also states that she’s seen men and some of the humanoids occasionally traveling from the horde’s location to a cave at the base of one of the near- by mountains. If the party agrees to depart immediately and trouble her no more, she describes both how to find the cave (area 1-12) and, if asked, the last known location of the horde (area 1-6).
AREA 1-4C - NINYOLDAHR’S LAIR
The walls of this massive cavern are rich with purplish-red min- erals and glittering flecks of mica reside here. The floor has been worn smooth by the repeated passage of a heavy scaled body and a number of low natural shelves divides the space into tiers. One of the highest tiers to the north holds a glittering mound of golden treasures and piled coins. Another nearby shelf is littered with broken, leathery eggs. Another passage slithers off into the dark- ness to the east.
This is home to the adult blue dragon Ninyoldah. It is sacred ground to her and she rewards intruders who cross her threshold with death. The dragon fights invad- ers using all her weapons and will not parley with any who've violated her home. If reduced to less than 25 hit points, she’ll flee, using either the main entrance or the back-door tunnel depending on which is most readily ac- cessible to her. The presence of lighting stone makes it impossible for her to use her breath weapon to collapse a tunnel in her wake, allowing a determined party to pursue and slay her before she escapes.
The dragon egg shards are all that remains of Ninyol- dah’s last brood, now (thankfully) long whelped and liv- ing in their own dens. The fragments make interesting curios but have no innate value.
Due to the presence of the lighting stone throughout her home, Ninyoldah is considered a CR 17 (18,000 XP) creature if defeated in her den.
Treasure. The dragon’s hoard consists of 14,000 gp, 1,800 pp, 15 gems worth 1,000 gp each, a cloak of elven- kind, a staff of withering, a giant slayer battleaxe, and boots of levitation.
AREA 1-4D — ESCAPE TUNNEL
This 25-foot-wide, 20-foot-high tunnel winds for nearly a half mile under the mountain before coming to what appears to be a natural rock fall. This barrier actually hides a back door to the dragon’s den and can serve as an escape hatch for Ninyoldah. The rock fall doesn’t contain lightning stone deposits, and the dragon can quickly use her breath weapon to blast open the barrier and escape if need be. Otherwise, any creature trying to clear the obstruction must succeed on a DC 25 Strength check and spend 1 hour moving stones to create room for a Medium creature to either enter or depart the tunnel.
AREA 1-5 —- THE STONE SPEAKS
The ground beneath your feet rumbles and tiny stones dance across the exposed rock. A voice like the sound of grinding boulders sounds in the air as if the stony ground itself was speaking.
The party has strayed into the territory of a galeb duhr. The creature addresses them in Terran, asking “Ibo walks upon my rocks?” If they understand the creature and can converse with it, it may share some of its knowledge. A party that ignores its communications or fails to retreat from its territory is attacked by animated boulders while the galeb duhr remains hidden among the stones.
Development. The galeb duhr is Droll-Durm and is initially indifferent to the party (if a little miffed off they’re intruding). Droll-Durm is more disturbed by the recent rumblings it has felt throughout the mountains (the awakening of the spaceship and the attacks made by the pacifier robot and its troops). A party that makes it known to the galeb duhr that it has come to investi- gate those rumblings and put an end to the disturbances plaguing the area can shift the galeb duhr’s attitude to- wards them to friendly.
If the party succeeds on a DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check when Droll-Durm is indifferent, or if they make it friendly towards them, the galeb duhr reveals the fol- lowing:
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
* The disturbances began “three moons ago” (three months) when the “stones turned over in their long sleep.” This was the earthquake that cleared the upper airlock of the ship and caused the computer malfunc- tion that started up the worker robots and the pacifier robot.
* Since then, the stones “quiver and shiver” from time to time. This is both the robots clearing the lower cargo hatch and the rumblings of the now-reactivated spaceship echoing through the rocks.
* About “two moons” ago (two months), there was an- other loud rumble and the “tickling of many feet” on the rock. This was the departure of the pacifier robot and its support troops.
* Droll-Durm can direct the party to the source of the strongest rumblings (the spaceship itself at area 1-12) and vaguely describe the movements of the pacifier robot and its allies. It does this by saying, “The rum- ble comes from where the warmth lingers longest at night and the moon does not sail (the northwest) and the tickling of feet comes from there, too. I felt their little legs walk down my shoulder and pass down my legs (traveling in a southerly direction to the west). The tramping wandered over my feet and up my other leg, then vanished somewhere towards where the sun greets the stone each morning (passed to the south, then turned northeast towards area 1-3 and later 1-6).”
* If asked about other threats, it says there is “a shadow that passes across the sun and moon sometimes, a great thing that leaves sky fire in its wake.” This is the blue dragon, Ninyoldah. Droll-Durm has a notion it dwells “behind my head near morning” (to the northeast).
Any creature that speaks Terran natively can make a DC 10 Intelligence check to translate the galeb duht’s per- sonified directions into ones more understandable by non-elemental minds.
Treasure. The galeb duhr doesn’t possess anything of value, but if the party makes it friendly and communi- cates to it that they seek to discover the source of the rumblings and restore order to the mountains, Droll- Durm expresses its gratitude. It tells them to come see it again once they have succeeded and it will extend its thanks. Once the pacifier robot is dealt with, however the party manages to do so, Droll-Durm provides them directions to a small cave high in the mountains that con- tains a vein of opals. Mining the vein, which takes three days, produces 10,000 gp worth of gemstones.
AREA 1-6 —- INVADERS’
ENCAMPMENT
A shallow, but broad vale extends down to the river at this point, a smaller tributary stream running down the center of it. On either side of the stream are a total of 40 low domes made from taut fabric. Each appears to be 10 feet in diameter and seems to be some form of tent or shelter. A hundred or more humanoid creatures move about the encampment in an animalistic fashion, prowling like caged beasts waiting to be freed. These creatures are man-like in shape, but many have long ears and short muzxles, and walk on legs bent like a ca- nine’. Among the bestial men are normal humans, although each is beautiful and dressed in shimmering garments.
On a low rise overlooking the camp is the strangest among many already weird sights: A floating metal platform hangs 5 feet in the air, its long oval body studded with rod-shaped protrusions, knobby devices, and other incomprehensible adornments. The platform meas- ures 10 feet long and 6 feet wide. In a way you cant quite explain, it seems to exhibit an aura of intelligence as if the object was watching over its servants rather than awaiting use ly them.
This camp is the current base of the pacifier robot, 75 type one biological entities, 25 type two biological en- tities, and 15 androids (see appendix B for all). Scouts have discovered the presence of the Baron’s Keep (area 1-1) up the Tumbledown River and the horde is gathering its strength before laying siege to the last standing strong- hold along the frontier. In less than a week, the pacifier robot and its troops will wipe the keep off the map, slaying all within it—unless the PCs manage to stop the invasion.
A direct attack on the horde by the party is likely suicidal, but the DM should play things out if the players decide to attack the invaders. Be sure to allow them plenty of op- portunities to retreat if they suddenly wise up, potentially losing many of their pursuers among the rocky slopes and valleys of the Barrier Peaks. Ultimately, entering the space- ship and either dealing with the pacifier robot within or causing the catastrophic destruction of the vessel will end the invading threat easier than a straight-on fight.
The domes are each simple tents with no special proper- ties. Each holds 1d4 foam sleeping pads and a blanket and the occasional spare non-technological weapon. These shelters are used by the biological entities and they have simple needs.
There is a 1 in 8 chance that a tent is a supply tent contain- ing a dozen replacement axes, a case of 25 needler clips,
and 1d6 spare needler pistols (see appendix C).
Developments. The party must make a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check every 20 minutes they remain around the
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
encampment. If less than half the party succeeds, their presence is detected by pickets and a group of 10 type one biological entities and an android armed with a needler (see appendices B and C) encounter them. The android tries to command the biological entities to take the party prisoner, but the brutes are only 25% likely to obey these orders. A party daring enough to sneak into the camp itself must make a DC 20 Dexterity (Stealth) check every 10 minutes to avoid being noticed and at- tacked.
After the third round of combat, an additional 1d6 + 1 type one biological entities, accompanied by one type two biological entity (see appendix B for both), join the battle each round as the camp is alerted and the savage humanoids are drawn to the fight. After the sixth round of combat, the pacifier robot (see appendix B) also ar rives. It remains at a distance, using its laser rifle battery to pick off the PCs.
If the party retreats, they can attempt DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) or Strength (Athletics) checks. If half the party succeeds, the PCs lose their pursuers among the rocks and gullies of the Barrier Peaks, but each character suf- fers one level of exhaustion due to the prolonged chase.
KEY To THE STONE Giant LaAiR (maAP 3)
AREA 1-7 —- STONE GIANT LAIR
A crude but high palisade of tree trunks forms an enclosure at the base of a steep cliff. The wall stands 15 feet tall and is crowned with sharpened points. A portion of the palisade appears move- able, and is lashed in place with thick. leather cords. The palisade extends 30 feet from the cliff face and measures 40 feet wide.
A natural cave system emerges from under the moun- tains at this point and it has been claimed by a family of stone giants. The giants entrance to the ca’
shioned this wall across the
2s to keep out troublesome beasts and to preserve their privacy. A recent run-in with the pacifier robot and its support troops resulted in the death of the clan’s patriarch and the giants have retreated to their den to lick their wounds and tend to their dead.
A stone giant waits at the cave entrance beyond the pali- sade, keeping a loose watch over the area. He will not be noticeable from outside the wall at first unless a character scales the palisade or they cause enough noise to draw
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS 243K
oT? 77
J 4 7) V, ” we ae ” Le Aree Sy: ——_— eK ZA - Tom : P UW MAP 3 / » zy 7’ 7 Stone Giant Lair 7| - , a | F \ \ / ee le} ad WA y Torch a oan } g G Hearth / Firepit 4 7 f(& Hearth Fc : GY, g isd Giant Bed j ] z Ae Y s ! re AEG Z © Stone Brazier.» Ss J j y Q Sacre pl c ay Palisade : | y 4 ls Lad u ty Seats g y, Palisade“, by yf 2 @- | rees vy F] ( , y Vv y & Piled Z 4 Bs Boulders
his attention. In the latter case, they'll soon see the giant peering over the wall at them with an unfriendly look on his face.
The wall can be scaled with a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. The moveable section of the wall must either be untied, which requires a creature to climb 10 feet up to the cord and untie it (DC 15 Dexterity check) or cut it (AC 12, 10 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic damage), or succeed on a DC 25 Strength check to man- handle the section enough to squeeze through. Physically trying to shift the gate attracts the stone giant, who inves- tigates the commotion.
Developments. Hailing the palisade or otherwise at- tracting the stone giant’s attention brings the giant to the wall. He is Frummach, a young adult stone giant who is in the throes of sadness over the loss of his beloved
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SESS
WOQ ENN
patriarch. His initial reaction will be to look for an excuse to smash something to help deal with his emotions, and he begins with a hostile attitude towards the party. A suc- cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check notices that the giant is dealing with personal loss and his anger is coming from there rather than outright hatred.
A successful Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma (De- ception) check is necessary to get Frummach to do any- thing more than threaten them with violence if the party doesn’t immediately leave. The DC for either of these checks is 20 unless the party expresses interest in the gi- ant’s sadness or offers condolences for whatever is trou- bling him. If so, reduce the DC to 15, On a failed check, Frummach threatens them, lobbing a boulder near them to demonstrate he is setious and then hails his kin from inside the cave (area 1-7A). Two more stone giants ar-
rive in 3 rounds. If violence breaks out, Fruammach and the other two giants—if present—throw boulders at their foes from inside the palisade for as long as possible. There is a pile of 20 boulders inside the wall for ready use.
If either check succeeds, the giant becomes open to par- leying. He explains that his clan’s patriarch was recently slain by a strange enemy and that his kin are preparing their leader for burial at the moment. Frummach was not present at the fight with these foes and is unclear about what kind of creature killed the giants’ leader. If the party asks for permission to speak with one of the giants who witnessed the battle, Frummach agrees if the characters succeed on a Charisma (Pesuasion) or Charisma (Decep- tion) check. If the total result of the check is 10 or better, Frummach summons Frothar from area 1-7A to the wall to talk with the party. On a result of 20+, Frummach ac- tually allows the party to enter, opening the palisade for them and leading them to area 1-7A.
If the party successfully ingratiates themselves with the stone giants, only Frummach might be inclined to lend them help in seeking revenge for Froddandan, attacking the invaders’ camp (area 1-6), or locating the mysterious cave (area 1-12). Whether he does so or not is left to
the DM’s discretion. However, even if Frummach does come with the party to the spaceship entrance, his great size will make entering the spaceship and exploring at least the upper levels problematic.
Treasure. Frummach carries a bag containing seven 50 gp gemstones and four 100 gp gems. A bracelet of beat- en copper (25 gp) is wrapped around his left wrist.
AREA 1-7A-— STONE GIANT CEREMONIAL CHAMBER
Aun expansive cavern lies 100 feet beyond the entrance to the cave, accessible by a wide sloping tunnel. The cavern walls are entirely covered with carved runes, spiral designs, pictograms of odd figures, incomprehensible symbols, and other decorations done with great skill. Large burning torches set about the cavern throw firelight on great mica sheets, illuminating the entire space. In the center of the cave, laid atop a pile of many furs, is the body of a giant gray- skinned humanoid. His body is covered in symbols drawn in thick blue pigment and large stone braziers burning fragrant fuel rest at his feet and head.
If the party comes here escorted by Frummach or they somehow get past him without alerting the rest of the stone giants, there are three stone giants present here
s ° iN) oO ray n
Dvir
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
(two females, Frekyah and Futhli, and one male, Froth- ar). Frothar has a number of recent wounds, including burn marks and lacerations, which are bandaged. He walks with a slight limp. If battle has been commenced at the opening and the giants are alerted, only one fe- male is present, guarding the body of the clan’s patriarch, Froddandan.
The giants are currently performing funeral rights for their leader by cleaning his body, painting his corpse with the necessary instructions for the afterlife, and purify- ing his flesh with burning subterranean fungi. All three giants are experiencing profound loss and treat any out- siders who come here unaccompanied by Frummach or another giant as foes, fighting to defend their home and protect their patriarch’s body from desecration.
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check deter- mines that Froddandan died from a mixture of precise- ly applied burns, perhaps from a ray, and terrible blunt force trauma and lacerations (the pacifier robot’s laser rifle battery and fragmentation grenades).
Developments. If the party arrives here with Frummach or the giant summons Frothar to the palisade, they can get the full story of Froddandan’s death from Frothar, as he was the one who carried their leader’s corpse back to the den. Frothar reveals the following, delivered in dream- like metaphors and with great sorrow. The DM might wish to have the PCs make a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check to recall that stone giants believe the outside, non- subterranean world to be a type of dream world, filled with symbolism and omens. This could make the players uncertain of whether what Frothar tells the characters is truth or perhaps an actual event told through a haze of stone giant dream logic and interpretation.
* Froddandan and Frothar were out above ground at night, seeking visions about the future. This entailed “dream walking,” a practice of traveling in random di- rections while waiting for the gods to reveal themselves.
* They were drawn by a brilliant glow in a shallow val- ley, a white-yellow light unlike any they had seen be- fore. They crossed over the rise and looked down into the vale to see glowing domes like mushroom caps. Tiny figures moved about the domes and there was a great shining altar among them (the pacifier robot). Almost immediately dancing motes of fire appeared around the two giants (these were the pacifier robot’s laser sights, but Frothar doesn’t know this).
* The night suddenly erupted in “sky fire” that came from the altar accompanied by thunder blasts. Frod- dandan was laid low by the blast and Frothar suffered injuries. Despite his wounds, the surviving giant car- ried his leader’s body back to the cavern home of the clan.
* This all occurred two nights ago.
Frothar can provide the party with rough directions to the place where this occurred, but due to the rambling nature of their “dream walking” and the giants’ curious interpretations of the upper world, the party must suc- ceed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check to correctly decipher these directions. Doing so leads them to the in- vaders’ camp (area 1-6). Frothar has no desire to further incite the wrath of the gods and will not accompany the party to the camp or elsewhere in the outside world un- der any citcumstances.
Frekyah and Futhli, the clan’s matriarch and her daugh- ter, believe that Froddandan’s death is a sign of great dis- pleasure by the gods and a warning that the giants have strayed too far from the roots under the mountains. They intend to take Froddandan’s body deep under the earth for burial in one of the stone giant race’s secret sepulch- ers and never venture back under the sun again. The rest of the clan is in agreement.
So long as the party behaves themselves, the stone gi- ants will not be a threat to them. However, the clan is in mourning and wishes to be alone with their grief. No of- fers of shelter or sustenance are forthcoming, and aside from potentially Frummach, the giants do not aid them in their expedition.
Treasure. Frothar wears a carved ivory amulet (250 gp) and a pair of beaten copper bracelets (worth 100 gp each). His pouch is filled with 20 100 gp gemstones. Both Frekyah and Futhli have ivory earrings worth 100 gp per set and pouches with 2d10 50 gp gems each.
AREA 1-7B - DINING HALL
This area is a smaller cavern with an open hearth and a table made from a granite slab surrounded by stalagmite “tree stump” seats. A funeral meal is being prepared by a young female stone giant (Frikita). She runs to area 1-7D if intruders come here.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 1-7C —- FEMALES’ QUARTERS
Four large beds made from mounds of bear hides and other furs are present here along with Gurggh, a cave bear (stats as polar bear). A female stone giant (Fum- ma) is mending the clothes of Froddandan so that he may be dressed in his finest for his final journey. She and the cave bear fight to defend themselves against intruders, but Fumma will seek to escape at the first opportunity, while Gurggh fights to the death to protect her mistress. The cave also contains clothing, personal belongings, a small (for giants, anyway) altar with a pair of stone idols atop it, and a large basin filled with water.
Treasure. Fumma wears a pair of mammoth ivory bracelets (200 gp each) and a necklace of uncut quartz stones (250 gp). Among the personal belongings are an- other three quartz necklaces (200 gp, 300 gp, and 500 gp, respectively), a silver bracelet (300 gp), and a pouch
with 150 pp. The stone idols have no intrinsic value, but might fetch 50 gp each to a collector of curiosities. Frod- dandan’s burial clothes are made from rare furs worth
1,000 gp.
AREA 1-7D — MALES’ QUARTERS
Five large beds made from mounds of bear hides and oth- er furs are arranged in this cave around an open hearth. Giant-sized spears, clubs, clothing, and bowls containing water and dried fungi are present here as well. A single male stone giant (Falknur) is here sharpening the weap- ons of his slain leader in preparation for the giant patri- arch’s interment in the sepulcher deep under the earth.
Treasure. The stone giant carries three 100 gp gems in a leather pouch around his neck. Mixed among the other belongings are a giant-sized silver torc (500 gp), six more 100 gp gems, and a polished obsidian statuette of a bald humanoid head measuring 3 feet in height and weighing 200 pounds (1,000 gp).
AREA 1-7E — UNDERDARK EXIT
A great pile of boulders blocks the tunnel at the far end of the cave complex. It requires at least three stone giants working in concert to move away. Beyond it lies a miles- Jong tunnel winding into the depths of the Underdark. It is by this passage that the clan means to return to inter Froddandan’s body beneath the earth and never return to the surface world again. What else might await the PCs if they manage to open this passage or follow the stone gi- ants after their departure is left to the DM's imagination.
AREA 1-8 —- BASILISKS’ DEN
Aq dark cave mouth is visible halfway up the mountain slope. A narrow trail winds up to meet it.
This small cave has a 10-foot-high, 8-foot-wide entrance and is 60 feet in diameter. It is home to a clutch of four basilisks. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check made while climbing the path to the cave notices a strange statue half-buried in the fallen scree and gravel near the entrance to the cave. The statue depicts a partial- ly-eaten giant mountain goat, an odd subject for a sculp- tor. It is of course a petrified mountain goat that fell vic- tim to the basilisks, and a DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) check suggests the same.
The basilisks fight fearlessly to defend their home den and are immune to the frightened condition while inside the cave.
Treasure. Among the petrified remains of various mountain animals, there is a half-devoured petrified ogre. Around one stony finger is a ring of x-ray vision.
AREA 1-9 -ANDROID BIVOUAC
Two shining silver domes rest among the rocks here. Each dome is 3 feet high and 10 feet in diameter and appears to be made from a taut cloth-like material. A seam in the side of each suggests a small hemispherical door. Six attractive humans dressed in strange shim- mering clothing are visible around the domes, engaged in ineffable activities with small boxes and rods.
This camp contains six androids (see appendix B) that are charged with supporting the pacifier robot’s mission. They are currently taking sensor readings of the atmos- phere and gauging the weather, feeding the data back to the spaceship’s central computer for processing. A pair of all-weather shelters (see appendix C) are set up in the center of the camp.
The androids’ programming is to remain out of sight and to neutralize any potential foes if spotted. They attack the party if they notice the PCs. Three of the androids have needler pistols for defense, while the other three at- tack unarmed. Additionally, two carry one fragmentation grenade each, while a third owns a sleep gas grenade. (See appendix C for all these weapons.)
If this is the first time the party has encountered an- droids, the DM should play up both their alien cloth- ing; beautiful, almost angelic appearance; and, if one is destroyed, the mess of wires, circuit boards, metal skel-
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
eton, and other features to make this a memorable first encounter.
Treasure. In addition to shelters and the weapons listed above, the androids have two atmosphere analyzers and six needler clips (see appendix C for both).
AREA 1-10 — BLASTED BEAR
The corpse of a large four-legged creature lies on its side here among the stones. It appears to be 12 feet in length and to have once been covered in fur. However, the body is now blackened and cracked as if subjected to an immense flash of heat that cooked it where it stood.
The corpse is that of a cave bear that had the misfortune of mistaking the raiders for a meal. It was quickly dis- patched by the pacifier robot's blaster rifle.
A DC 12 Wisdom (Nature) check identifies the corpse as a cave bear, a formidable beast that weighs more than a ton. A DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check deter- mines that the animal was slain with a single stroke, a blast of intense heat that appears to have been magical in nature. It was killed at least two months ago, yet appears unmolested by scavengers.
A DC 14 Wisdom (Survival) check picks up strange tracks made by a mixture of unshod, clawed feet and boots with ridged soles. There appears to have been many of these creatures but most of the footprints were washed away by rain since they were left. Despite the weather’s toll on the trail, a much older track leads north up the nearby valley (running towards area 1-11), while a somewhat less old trail heads southwest along the riverbank. The most recent of tracks heads northeast before becoming lost among the rocks.
These trails were left when the pacifier robot and its troops first departed the spaceship and reached the river. The horde first followed the river to the southwest, raid- ing the strongholds they found there. They’ve only re- cently come back up the river to attack the upper keeps and are currently camped to the northeast after decimat- ing the stronghold at area 1-3.
AREA 1-11 — CAVE TRAIL
A stretch of rocky soil is visible among the boulders, gravel, and steep mountain slopes at this point. Tracks, some booted and some barefeot and clawed, are clearly visible in the earth. Many appear to have traveled south and are older and worn. However, a fav more recent tracks lead northward up the valley.
A DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) check allows a creature to easily follow this trail northward to the cave at area 1-12. Even if the check fails, the high valley walls mean that the beings responsible for the trail have a limited range of movement. Following the valley north eventually puts searchers close enough to area 1-12 to notice the weird cave set into the high outcrop.
AREA 1-12 - THE MYSTERIOUS CAVE
See the Start section of chapter 3 for more details.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
CHAPTER SIX
Expanded Encounters for the Spaceship
his section elaborates on the material presented in
the original adventure, introducing new monsters
and challenges for the party to face as they explore the crashed spaceship. Some of this supplemental ma- terial builds on ideas included in the classic version of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks, while other content is brand new. An entirely new level has also been added to the spaceship that details the origin of the invaders threaten- ing the realms adjacent to the Barrier Peaks and to pro- vide one possible means of defeating them.
The Dungeon Master may choose to include or leave out any of the following information as she desires, or fur- ther extrapolate or change it to best suit her needs and to entertain and challenge the players. For ease of use, all additional encounters use circled numerals in the map key, making them quickly discernable from the “canoni- cal” encounter areas present in the original module.
LEVEL I ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTERS
AREA 25A (SUPPLEMENTAL) —- DEAD EXPLORERS
DM Note: This encounter can be added to the existing description of area 25A on Level lif the DM desires. It ties into the background material and reveals the fate of some of the previously sent expeditions to root out the secret of the Barrier Peaks.
Two corpses are visible inside the open chamber at the northeastern end of the room. In the 10-foot-by-10-foot space are a female hal- fling and a male human. Both bodies are emaciated with the signs of starvation. The corpses are each armed and wearing armor. A number of small studs kine both the floor and ceiling of the entrance to this room and a small post with a slot seen elsewhere on doors stands in the center of the open entrance. There is a skebt distor- tion in the air around the entrance to the space and a soft humming sound hangs in the air.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
These two unfortunates, a human fighter and a halfling rogue, were members of the first party sent to investigate the raiders coming out of the Barrier Peaks. They dis- covered and infiltrated the spaceship, but these two were captured by the police robots and imprisoned here. They languished for days before succumbing to starvation—a dire portent of what might happen to the PCs if they become imprisoned here!
The force field to this cell is operational and can be brought down by the means detailed in the main room description.
Treasure. The dead halfling wears +7 /eather armorand has a +1 shortsword and a dagger of venom in scabbards on her belt. Her pouches contain thieves’ tools, 115 gp, 75 pp, and two garnets (25 gp each). The human is dressed in normal chain mail but wears a brooch of shielding on his breast. He bears a +2 /ongsword and has a potion of heroism, 100 gp, and three emeralds (100 gp each) in his belt pouch.
AREA 33 —- ASSISTANT TECHNICIAN’S QUARTERS
Musty and neglected, this small room contains a litter of metal objects in various states of disrepair. Spools of stiff colored string, small plates of horn-like material, glittering items which might be strange tools, and even less identifiable things are scattered across a broad low bench at the back of the room. A small sleeping space is set into the wall below several open cubbies. A rag-dressed skeleton lies on the floor.
This room was once the quarters of a particularly larce- nous-minded assistant technician whose criminal mind somehow managed to escape the extreme psychological testing all crewmembers underwent prior to launch. With time to kill, the technician set about building a device that would bypass any lock on the ship so that he might help himself to whatever valuables were stored inside. He per- fected the device shortly before the plague broke out and
managed to steal some objects of value, but soon died in the chaos that followed the outbreak.
On the bench among spools of wirings, circuit chips, non-functioning soldering irons, and other tools is a black glass plate the size of a color card. The plate is connected to a small metal rectangle by two pieces of stiff red- and yellow-colored string (wires). When the black glass plate is inserted into a functioning card slot, a display of green glyphs appears on a screen on the metal box and the plate changes color to the appropriate card needed to open the door. The device will also work on the cell locks in the security cells (area 25A), the sealed boxes in the security office (areas 25 and 25B), and even the lockers in the small arms locker (area 27).
The device successfully functions three times. If used a fourth time, it shorts out and is permanently broken. Additionally, the ship’s computer detects the attempt to illegally open a lock and directs three police robots (see appendix B) to the vicinity of the attempt. They arrive in 1d6 minutes and will attempt to arrest anyone they discover there unless shown a gray color card.
Development. A DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a crude map with alien characters inscribed on the back of one of the circuits on the bench. This map depicts the southwestern corner of Level II. If the al- ien characters are deciphered, they read “Component Storage #1.” Following the map leads them to area 7 on Level II.
AREA 34 —- BOOBY-TRAPPED SKELETON
A crude barricade made from an overturned bed and desk has been erected near the door of this room. Beyond the barricade, a trio of boxes is visible stacked against the far wall. Slumped against the boxes and dressed in rags is a skeleton, its head looking down at its hands in its lap..A small orb-shaped object is clutched in its left hand.
This crewman hoarded supplies and weapons and was de- termined to outlast the plague. When he, too, succumbed to the effects and knew death was imminent, he sought to deprive any fortunate survivors of his hoard. He died with an armed fragmentation grenade in his hand and the device is primed to explode.
Moving the body carelessly automatically results in the grenade falling loose and its arming pin springing out. The grenade explodes seconds later and everyone within a 10-foot radius of the skeleton must make a DC 15 Dex- terity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES RE{NCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The grenade can be safely removed with a DC 15 Dex- terity (Sleight of Hand) check, but this ends with the suc- cessful PC holding a live grenade in their hand. Injury is still possible if not disposed of carefully. If the Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check fails, the grenade falls loose an: explodes as above.
Treasure. The first of the three crates contains 30 days of ship’s rations. The second crate holds 12 wound heal- ing canisters, but only eight are still potent. The thir: crate contains a pair of blaster pistols and 10 power discs, half of which are completely drained. (See appen- dix C for all these items.)
If the grenade goes off in the room, the crates are pierced by fragments and much of the hoard is damage by the blast. Twelve days of rations are ruined, only three potent healing canisters survive, and one blaster pistol
along with seven power discs are destroyed.
AREA 35 - GRELL AMBUSHERS
A number of pipes cross this intersection near the ceiling. The air smells sharp and there is a snapping sound as sparks fall from one of the pipes. A near blinding glare spills from the ruptured pipe.
This damaged electrical conduit is located 10 feet above the floor and occasionally emits sparks and snapping sounds. It appears easy to avoid. However, the conduit is not the only danger here.
Three grells have been drawn by the exposed wiring and have found this to be a good spot to ambush prey. They float in the shadows near the ceiling, waiting to attack passers below.
The grells also discovered that their ability to manipulate electricity grants them an unexpected benefit near the damaged conduit. As an action, any of the grells can use the following attack:
Electrical Blast (Recharge 5-6). A bolt of electricity arcs from the damaged conduit targeting a single crea- ture the grell can see within 30 feet of the center of the intersection. The targeted creature must make a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) lightning damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much dam- age on a successful one. The grell can use this attack against a target it is grappling as a bonus action. Treasure. Stuffed atop some of the non-damaged elec- trical conduits near the intersection’s west end are the remains of a vegepygmy. The corpse has a violet card and a gold necklace (1,000 gp).
AREA 36 - REPROGRAMMED WORKER ROBOT
Ai tall cylindrical metal creature moves through the ransacked room. It stands more than 8 feet tall and has both a pair of sinu- ous steel tentacles ending in claws and a set of human-like arms. Its dome-shaped head is ringed with eyes and a strange rod or lever protrudes from its crown.
This worker robot (see appendix B) was reprogrammed by a mad technician at the height of the plague. lts mem- ory chips were swapped with those of a police robot and the mechanical servant now believes it is a security unit. If it notices the party, it whirls to face them, extending one of its human-like arms in their direction and com- mands them halt and be identified—all in Alien Com- mon. If the PCs fail to respond to its commands and/ or do not produce a ted or gray color card, the robot attempts to “subdue” them using its nonexistent weap- s intended attack—
onty. As it does so, it announces “Deploying sleep gas grenade!” or “firing paralysis
ray!’—then mimes the action with no effect. This con-
tinues for several rounds and the robot follows the party
if they leave the area.
After 10 rounds of ineffective attacks or if it is attacked, the robot announces, “Switching to physical restraining mode” and then attacks with its tentacles and pinchers. Its attacks are now with lethal intent.
If the party displays a red or gray card, the worker robot stands stock still and states “Awaiting orders.” The char- acter with the color card can command the robot to serve it or perform tasks for the card-holder, but the robot will not deign to do any chore it believes unsuitable for a po- lifting, repairs, etc.).
lice robot (carrying things, hea asked to do any “worker robot” chore, it apologi
that’s not in its programming, and offers to summon a worker robot if the card-holder desires. The robot, if asked to summon a worker robot, agrees, goes stock still, then announces, “Worker robot summoned, sir (or ma’am).” No robot ever appears however (it doesn’t have the capability to do this, but believes it does.).
The robot is equipped with a violet color card and will open doors if asked.
The robot fights if commanded to but defaults to its po- lice protocol which restricts it to nonlethal efforts. This protocol cannot be overridden by the card-holder. Dur- ing each of its turns, the robot performs one attack or
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
action in the following order:
¢ Turn 1. “Fires” a “sleep gas grenade.”
+ Turn 2. “Fires” its “paralysis ray.”
* Turn 3. Summons reinforcements (no effect).
+ Turn 4. Uses “subdual tentacles” (attacks with its ten- tacles, doing physical damage).
* Turn 5. Announces it is switching to lethal force pro- tocol and “fires” its “laser pistol.”
After 5 rounds, a personality conflict glitch causes it to cycle back through its protocols and starts with its “sleep gas grenade” attack. The robot only makes an actual at- tack on its fourth, eighth, twelfth, etc. turn in each com- bat.
Development. The robot functions for 4 hours before its power source dies, rendering it inert and useless. If the DM is having too much fun with the “police robot” and wishes to keep it around, it can be recharged at area 4 on Level II or any area 12 location on Level III, a process which takes 1 hour and restores it to a full 6-hour charge.
AREA 37 - MUTATED GOO
A number of dull yellow cylinders with metal handles on their tops are stored horizontally in racks along the walls of this chamber. Each appears to be 3 feet long and 1 2 feet in diameter, and a collection of tiny square tiles are set in a square pattern next to
the handle.
Show Handout #54. These cylinders contain a nutrient- rich viscous substance that serves as the basis for all food produced by the ship’s robokitchens. The cylinders were swapped out to replace empty canisters on this level’s kitchens (areas 7) as needed. The kitchen food dispens- ers then used the substance to manufacture all varieties
of tasty food.
The canisters are of Simple complexity (see appendix C) and opening one is accomplished by punching in a ba- sic command code in the keypad atop each cylinder (the square pattern of tiles). However, due to the close prox- imity of the radiation area in the next room (area 13), these particular nutrient goo canisters have been mutated into a terrible form of life.
If any cylinder is opened, an ochre jelly spills out and attacks whatever is nearby. There are potentially 12 ochre jellies in this area to deal with if the party opens all of the cylinders.
A crafty party might seek to weaponize the contained ochre jellies somehow, but opening a canister requires an action and the opener must be within 5 feet of the container. Unless some method of remote opening is devised, the released ochre jelly will almost always attack the opener first.
AREA 38 — REC AREA
Numerous couches and chairs are arranged about the room creat- ing intimate conversation spaces. Several colorful lumps resembling half-deflated puffball fungus are also present, each measuring 3 feet in diameter. Several smashed boxes the size of a human are ar- ranged against the north wall, their exteriors once covered in garish colors but now stained black by soot. Along the east wall are six curious oval-shaped spheres. Once stark. white, their exteriors are now dirtied and scratched..A seam is visible around the middle of each sphere and a short flight of stairs leads up to the side of each of the weird orbs.
Show Handout #55. A place for the crew and passengers to relax, this area was long ago looted, its food and game machines (the boxes along the wall) smashed and set alight. Only the couches, chairs, and beanbag-style seats (the puffball mushrooms) remain untouched.
The six orbs each measure 8 feet long by 4 feet wide and rest on supports 3 feet off the ground. These are virtual reality pods that provided a number of entertainment options to the user. Now, only one simulation remains functioning.
A jet black color card slot is set into the side of each orb, accessible from the top step of the stairs. Inserting any card in the slot causes the top of the orb to swing upward, revealing the plush reclined seat inside. A white helmet that completely covers the head rests atop the seat, connected to the orb’s interior by a short cable.
Sitting in the pod and placing the helmet on one’s head causes the wearer to be plunged into a VR environment video game that mimics reality in nearly all respects. (See sidebar.) As soon as the helmet is put on, a black field with a glowing green alien lettering is visible. There is a short pause, then the alien characters change to a sin- gle glyph as if counting down. After 20 seconds, the VR pod’s user is immersed in the game setting: an adven- ture game where the player takes the role of doughty he- roes—but with a futuristic twist—in a battle against evil!
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
e @ QUEST: AGainST THE VENOMOUS WARLORD!
Included in this book (see appendix A) is a short side adventure along with pre-generated characters (see appendix D). This mini-dungeon and characters are provided as a means of resolving the use of the VR pods if the DM desires and believes the players would find it interesting to briefly take on the roles of other “virtual characters.” In a sense, roleplaying characters that their own characters are roleplaying (it boggles the mind)).
If this method of resolving the party’s meddling with the VR pods is undesirable, the author suggests that the DM simply describe the character’s experience in- side the pod briefly, playing up the deadly battles with fearsome monsters, the powerful magical items it had, and the treasure and renown they received upon fin- ishing the “adventure.” Then describe the existential sadness they feel when the VR pod program ends and they realize it was all an illusion.
oe @ AREA 39 —- SHOCKING DEVELOPMENT
Ruptured boxes and barrels made from a pale blue material simi- lar to horn are stacked along the walls of this room. The contents of the containers were clearly organic: the stuff has rotted to a stinking mess and sprouted thick clusters of bright pink toadstools. The floor is covered in water that streams down one wall, born from leaking pipes running along the western wall. Oily black ropes dan- ale from a breach in the ceiling and lie splayed out across the floor. Ina cabinet set into the south wall, three curious rod-like objects are visible in a rack behind a glass door.
This storeroom held foodstuffs and organic compounds for the laboratory (area 31) but are now rotted beyond use. The pink toadstools are simple fungus, edible but having no other properties.
The oiled ropes are live power lines and have trans- formed the wet floor into a death trap. Anyone stepping into the puddle or touching the pool with a conductive object must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the space- ship’s lights are currently dimmed due to result #2 when
using the computet console in the computer central (area 28), the water can be crossed or touched without danger.
The walls are slick with moisture but can be climbed to avoid the 15-foot-diameter puddle with a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. A creature failing this check can make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw to land outside of the pool on the side they began their climb attempt, but a failure indicates they come into contact with the electri- fied pool, taking damage as above.
The cabinet in the south wall contains three fully charged fire extinguishers (see appendix C).
AREA 40 - ATTACK OF THE MOLD
PEOPLE
This chamber is dark and stinks of milden. The walls are filthy with deep green, nearly black, patches of mold. The furnishings, which appear to be a collection of tables covered mith strange boxy accoutrements, are likewise coated in the foul stuff. A door at the rear of the room is closed and mold-covered. A blinking light flash- es next to it.
The mold covering this office is foul-looking but pre- sents no danger. However, the mildew is a mutated spe- cies which thrives in the dark and grows with almost su- pernatural speed. The mold covers both this room, the space beyond the door, and the occupants of that room.
If the party enters the room, the closed door slides open and a quartet of humanoid forms, each covered ina thick growth of mold and fungus, shambles through the open doorway to attack the party.
These are four androids (see appendix B) encrusted with a thick coating of the mold, making them look like sentient, ambulatory fungus creatures instead of beau- tiful humans. The mildew has affected their personality chips and they are now hostile to all humanoid creatures.
The androids have normal stats, but the thick coating of mold presents a threat to those fighting them. Each an- droid gains the following reaction:
Spore Cloud: In response to another creature within 10 feet dealing slashing or bludgeoning damage to the android, the android releases a cloud of poisonous spores that targets the creature. The target must suc- ceed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) poison damage.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The room the androids emerged from is another section of the office in similar condition as the front part.
Treasure. A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check in the back office notices glittering metal under- neath a layer of mold. If cleared away, a metal box con- taining three 50 gp gems, two 100 gp gems, and a gold necklace (1,000 gp) is discovered.
AREA 41 —- COOLANT LEAK
Anyone coming within 10 feet of this location who suc- ceeds on a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check heats a faint rattling coming from the pipes and conduits that tun along the corridor’s ceiling. A creature looking at the pipes can make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check. If the creature is proficient with alchemist’s or tinker’s tools, they have advantage on the check. On a successful check, the creature notices that one of the pipes is leaking tiny droplets of blue liquid and appears in danger of failing. If the check fails, they just iden- tify which pipe is rattling but no further information is gleaned.
If anyone passes beneath the failing pipe there is a 50% chance the pipe bursts while they are beneath it, spraying them with super-chilled, highly pressurized coolant. This burst affects one target, doing 36 (8d8) cold damage, or half as much damage if they succeed on a DC 15 Dex- terity saving throw. The pipe bursts only once and affects a single creature, but the DM should check to see if the pipe fails each time it is passed beneath until the leak oc- curs. Afterwards, the passage is free from danger.
AREA 42 - TECHNICIANS’ POST
Ai sinuously-shaped table rests to the right of the entrance, a skel- etal figure garbed in rags slumped atop it. Behind it are a bank. of black glass plates set into the wall with an altar below it. The altar is covered in small square tiles and round protrusions. Strange met- alitems are scattered across the dirty floor. A pool of purple liquid has accumulated on the floor near an open door across from the entrance. An open doorway to the west leads deeper into this area.
These three rooms were a substation to the ship’s main engineering level (which was not part of the jettisoned ship and not present here on the planet). It served most- ly as a monitoring point and a place where work orders were processed.
The bank of glass plates is comprised of 25 unpowered computer displays that once showed the condition of all the ship’s systems. The “altar” below it is a non-function- ing computer terminal. The strange metal items are a va- riety of tools (hydrospanners, sonic screwdrivers, plasma torches, etc.), but all are broken, bent, or otherwise use- less.
The pool of purple liquid measures 4 feet in diameter and is a synthetic fluid used in a number of the ship’s ma- chines. It is not dangerous by itself, but does demonstrate the ability to reflect back harmful energy when exposed to it. If the pool is struck forcefully with a nonmagical physical attack or an effect dealing cold, fire, lightning, or psychic damage, the liquid reflects the energy back at its source (weapons rebound against their wielder, while other attacks are reflected back to their source). The creature delivering the initial damage must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or suffer damage as if struck by its own attack. Less forceful efforts, such as scooping up the fluid gently, do not trigger this response. The fluid can reflect energy three times before it loses its molecular integrity and transforms into a gaseous state that quickly
diffuses.
Treasure. The skeleton has a violet color card and a canvas pouch on its belt. The pouch contains a set of complex tools designed to repair the ship’s various engi- neering systems. Most of the tools are beyond the party’s intellect to use, but a few of the simpler implements can be used in more mundane tasks. If incorporated into a set of alchemist’s supplies, carpenter’s tools, cobblet’s tools, jeweler’s tools, leatherworker’s tools, smith’s tools, tink- er’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools, the implements grant advantage on any ability check made with those tools. The delicate tools break or wear out after the artisan’s tools are used 1d4 + 1 times.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 42A —- TECHNICIANS’ LOUNGE
Overturned tables and chairs are strewn about this room and the skeletons of a half-dozen bodies are also present. The south wall is blackened as if burned and there are similar dark marks in the floor. A large cracked black glass plate is set into the curved western wall. In a small alcove to the north is a large metal figure nith serpent-like steel arms and a pair of smaller limbs that end in sharp pinchers. A square opening in the figure’s chest reveals a network of colored string and horn tablets. A shining flattened oval Les on the ground before it.
Show Handout #56. The technicians here killed one an- other in a plague-driven rage, damaging the room as well. The glass plate was once an entertainment unit.
The metal figure is a worker robot (see appendix B) that severely malfunctioned before the plague struck and was brought here for the technicians to puzzle over in their spare time. The robot displayed some violent quirks and the engineers didn’t trust the robot to be left somewhere it might inadvertently be reactivated. They even pulled the robot’s power supply (the shining flattened oval) to keep it inert. Anyone examining the oval determines it has two small slots set into its top and it weighs about 20 pounds.
A DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check made in con- junction with an examination of the robot’s open chest cavity notices a pair of stiff colored strings (wires) end- ing in small tabs about the size of the slots on the oval. Placing the oval back inside the robot’s chest (there is a space it fits comfortably inside), slotting the tabs into the power source, and closing the chest cavity cover reacti- vates the robot.
Development. Reactivating the worker robot is a bad idea. At first, there is a ratcheting noise, followed by some beepings, buzzings, and static, then the construct comes back to life. It calmly surveys its surroundings before set- tling its optical sensors on the closest creature. Its optical lenses turn from a placid blue to a burning red, and the robot begins repeating the words “Kill, kill, kill,” in Alien Common before attacking every living thing present. It fights until destroyed.
Treasure. One of the skeletons lies near a jury-rigged incinerator (see appendix C). The weapon has 1 charge left in its power disc and enough fuel for three more uses before needing to be refilled.
AREA 42B — CHIEF’S OFFICE
This room appears to have escaped much of the damage present elsewhere. A large bench bearing a glass-fronted box and a number of tiny square tiles stands at the far end of the room. The east wall is adorned with rows of black reflective rectangles imprinted with white symbols. A crystal stud is set into each plate beside the symbols. Many of the studs are glowing either red or green, but far more are dark. A skeleton, its body imprisoned in a form-fitting cage of rods and bars, stands beside a curious chair, facing you.
Show Handout #57. The technician chief for this sec- tion of the ship manned this office, which was the nerve center for monitoring spaceship systems. There are 200 black rectangles, each measuring 2 inches high by 4 inch- es across. Each one lists the name of a sector of the ship (Primary Engineering, Laboratory, Cargo Hold 12, etc.) and has a status light beside it. Green glowing lights indicate systems are functioning nominally, red indicates a problem, and unlit bulbs mean the sector is no longer reporting (they are areas not present in this jettisoned portion of the ship). Translating the alien characters into comprehensible words allows the party to read them, but not necessarily understand their meaning. The DM should use futuristic technobabble when revealing what they read (“Proton Dissembling Sub-Station 11” and “Transmatter Rerouting Hub Delta” are good examples).
The glass-fronted box and tiles is a dedicated computer console related to technical matters and is still powered. Figuring out how the operate the console, a device of Difficult complexity (see appendix C), brings up a flash- ing red screen followed by a scrolling column of alien characters. Diagrams of the ship’s levels appear with a number of glowing sections marked out on them.
The console is displaying all sections of the ship where radiation is present. The DM should show the players each of the ship’s level maps and point to each area 13. Give the group 15 seconds to look at each map and memorize (or not) the locations of the radiation leaks, then show them the next map. Levels I, II, IIT, V, and, if the DM is incorporating it, Level VII all have radiation leaks. Levels IV and VI are not displayed.
The maps display once each before the power surge blanks the console and a shower of sparks emerges from underneath the keyboard. It no longer functions.
Treasure. The skeleton wears a powered exoskeleton (see appendix C).
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL II ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTER
AREA 7-— HIDDEN LOOT STASH
A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a small access hatch set into the bulkhead here, nearly invisible among the gloom and grit of the ‘tween deck. Chipped and alien characters are barely discernable on the exterior of the hatch. If translated, they read “Com- ponent Storage #1.”
The door is trapped with an armed poison gas grenade (see appendix C). A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Inves- tigation) check notices a tiny piece of string protruding from the edge of the closed hatch. A successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools deactivates the trip- wire, otherwise opening the hatch sets off the poison gas grenade. A character without thieves’ tools can attempt this check with disadvantage using any edged weapon or edged tool. On a failed check, the poison gas grenade goes off.
If the grenade detonates, all creatures within 10 feet of the access hatch must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. A creature failing its saving throw takes 42 (12d6) poison damage, or half as much damage on a successful one. All creatures taking damage from the poison gas are also poisoned. The cloud of poisonous vapors persists for 1 minute. Any creature ending their turn within the gas grenade’s area of effect must make a Constitution
saving throw if they have not already done so, suffering the effects of the gas.
Treasure. Inside the access hatch, hidden here by the criminally-minded technician (see area 33, Level I) are three pieces of jewelry (worth 1d4 x 1,000 gp each), two bottles of expensive liquor (tasty and worth 100 gp), a red color card, and two more poison gas grenades (see
appendix C).
LEVEL III ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTERS
AREA 16 —- THE FRIENDLY FLUMPH
Towering piles of crates and barrel-shaped containers made from a smooth, horn-like material fill this cavernous space. Narrow aisles wind their way through the heaped cargo and the high ceiling is gloomy despite the lights of the chamber. The slightest noise seems to echo ominously through the place.
This cargo bay is the home of a flumph recently freed from stasis and thoroughly outmatched by anything else on this level. The creature is hiding atop one of the cargo piles, safely out of reach of most of the level’s predators. It senses the party’s presence with its telepathy and rec- ognizes them as possible allies.
A few moments after the party enters the area, they feel a tickling at the back of their brains followed by a tel- epathic (and empathetic) greeting, “Salutations (WARM EMOTION), walking beings (MILD HUMOR)! Who and what are you (CURIOSITY/FEAR), and how did you get here (CURIOSITY/HOPE)?”
The flumph (whose name in Common can best be trans- lated as “Hruhbrt”), remains out of sight atop the cargo stack and does not show itself until one or more of the party succeeds on a DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check or otherwise demonstrates they mean Hruhbrt no harm. Once they do so, the flumph drifts down towards them, remaining 20 feet overhead until completely sure the par- ty are allies.
Hruhbrt can provide some details of the level, namely the location and contents of areas 3, 4, and 18, and the presence of the ropers (area 6), the dining servo robot (area 9), and the webbird flocks (area 10). It has no idea where it is and its last memory before awakening on the ship was drifting through the high canyons of its home- land, a place called Chwesh-Brrp. Hruhbrt has no inkling it is no longer on its home world and the concept of planets and space travel is beyond it. It does admit it has never seen creatures like the party before, and its curios- ity over creatures that move about on two legs plus its telepathic probing drove it to reveal itself.
Hruhbrt is lonely and frightened, and if the party dem- onstrates they are friendly and it has no reason to suspect their intentions toward it, the flumph asks to come along with them until they reach open air once more. If the party agrees, it joins them gratefully and does its part to
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
help them explore and escape the spaceship. If rebuffed, Hruhbrt drifts back up to its hiding place atop the cargo and the party experiences its sadness and loneliness tel- epathically for as long as they are within range of its te- lepathy.
Developments. Allowing Hruhbrt to join the party has its benefits. First, it proves to be a loyal comrade, endur- ing its fair share of danger to the benefit of the group. Hruhbrt fights to the best of its abilities in combat, will occasionally offer to scout ahead or otherwise use its fly- ing ability to aid the party, and provide advice and in- put when needed. This stops if the flumph ever feels it’s being taken advantage of and the party must thereafter succeed in a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma (Intimidation) check to get Hruhbrt to do anything other than fight in its own defense.
Hruhbrt’s telepathy also proves useful. Although use- less when communicating with androids and robots, the flumph can use this power to act as an interpreter be- tween the party and living sentient creatures capable of speech aboard the ship. Also, Hruhbrt’s telepathy is good at picking out unconscious thoughts in a living creature, allowing it to recognize subconscious leaps of logic that even the creature being telepathically read is unaware of.
While Hruhbrt is present during an attempt to figure out a technological artifact (see appendix C), all creatures working on the device have advantage on their Intelli- gence checks as the flumph offers advice based on the manipulators’ unconscious minds.
If the party refuses to allow Hruhbrt to join them, the flumph’s telepathic sadness seeps into their minds and all within 60 feet of the creature must make a DC 10 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the creature is filled with deep-seated sorrow and has disadvantage on all rolls for 1 hour or until a calm emotions ox lessor restoration spell is cast upon them. Additionally, any character with inspi- ration loses it as sadness overwhelms them and under- mines their self-confidence.
Attacking Hruhbrt causes the flumph to use its Stench Spray attack, then fly away and hide among the cargo out of reach of the party. It will never interact with the party again.
Aside from the flumph, this cargo hold contains the standard array of damaged building materials, fertiliz-
ers, and similar colonization materials. Two empty stasis
cages are also present along with a handful of skeletal
remains.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 17 - GRELL BROOD-MOTHER
This large, high-ceiling chamber contains stacks of containers ar- ranged in neat piles. Many of the containers shew signs of damage, however, and the floor bears piles of rotting organic matter and rusting metal material. Clinging to the sides of several of the con- tainers piled high overhead are clusters of pearlescent orange globes, slick with slime. Each pulses faintly with life.
One of the creatures captured by the spaceship’s crew and placed into stasis was a grell brood-mother, a ma triarch of the dreaded species. The brood-mother was pregnant with a clutch of eggs when captured and, once released from stasis, gave birth to the first wave of the grells now infesting the ship. This cargo hold is her lair and birthing grounds.
The grell brood-mother is a 20-foot-long, oversized
specimen of its species. Its tentacles are scarred from countless battles and its beak bears striated bands of pur- ple and green, the marks of brood-motherhood. Like a queen bee, the brood-mother is the sole breeder among the grells on the ship, the source of the entire species inside the vessel. It does not tolerate intruders in its lair. The grell brood-mother (see appendix B) is present here along with three grell consorts (each with maxi- mum hit points). They float high above the ground in the shadows, ambushing any who enter by drifting down si- lently and attacking the rearmost members of any group.
Development. There are 10 egg clusters present here, each no less than 20 feet above the floor. Climbing up to one requires a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. Each egg cluster has AC 10, 10 hit points, immunity to light- ning damage, and vulnerability to fire damage. Destroy- prevents any more grells
ing all 10 of the egg clus
from being born on the spaceship. Once all the grells de- scribed in the level descriptions are slain, treat any “grell” result on the random encounter table as “No encounter.”
Treasure. The grell brood-mother has accumulated in- cidental treasure from those creature it has slain. Atop one of the cargo piles, located 20 feet above the floor, is a treasure pile consisting of six gem bearings (100 gp each), a laser rifle with 2 charges remaining on its power disc, a gas mask, and a bandolier of six wound healing canisters (two are empty, however). (See appendix C for these items.)
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 18 —- GRICK DEN
Tables and chairs, some quite large, have been thrown about this huge room with abandon, perhaps by looters searching for treasure. Many of the furnishings are broken and piled into mounds. The floor here is covered with soft cloth carpeting, now stained with dirt and a crusty, unrecognizable substance.
This former lounge was looted in the chaos of the plague and then abandoned. Recently, a band of gricks have climbed up from Level IV in search of prey and are tem- porarily using this room as a den. They hide in hollow spaces within the mounds of broken furnishings, am- bushing anything that gets too close. Dried slime from their passage cakes the carpeting of this area.
There are four gricks and a grick alpha occupying this chamber. The heaped furnishings have many small crev- ices and nooks to hide in allowing the gricks to utilize their Stone Camouflage trait despite the non-natural en-
vironment of the lounge.
Treasure. A skeleton lies half buried beneath one of the mounds of furnishings and is noticed with a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check. A rotted canvas bag beneath the bones contains a yellow color card, a wound healing canister with 5 charges remaining (see appendix C), and a hypodermic syringe containing 1 dose of all- purpose curative that neutralizes poison, cures disease, or removes radiation poisoning.
LEVEL IV ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTERS
AREA 23 —- CHUUL POOL
A placid pool some 10 feet in diameter is visible here among the vegetation of this level. A stream leaves the pool, floning to the north. .A pathway skirts the pool at its southern edge. The waters appear deep and dark, and the occasional ripple indicates fish and
other animal life swim in its depths.
Three chuuls once dwelled in the waters and along the shores of the central lake, but the froghemoth has driven them off. The creatures now call this pool and the sur- rounding foliage their home. At least one will be present in the pool at all times and there is a 3 in 6 chance each of the other two are either beneath the waters or lurking in the foliage surrounding the pool. The chuuls are aware of the presence of the tri-flower frond that grows at the north end of the pool (see area B) and avoid it.
The chuuls are attracted to magic and can determine what creature bears the most magical items or is under a spell effect using their Sense Magic trait. They attack this creature before all others, seeking to slay that target first before moving on to other potential threats.
Treasure. At the bottom of the 10-foot-deep pool is the partially-eaten corpse of a male high elf dressed in tat- tered robes. A sodden backpack and a staff of frost lie be- side it in the muck. The backpack contains a ruined spell- book, two potions of superior healing, and a money pouch containing 56 gp, 50 pp, and a sapphire (50 gp). The elf was a wizard who was part of one of the initial explora- tory patties sent to investigate the mysterious raids com- ing from the Barrier Peaks. Like his colleagues elsewhere, he perished inside the spaceship, slain by the chuuls.
AREA 24 —- EXHIBIT RETENTION ZONE 1
Numerous open-faced chambers are arranged in tiers along the verges of this area. Metal platforms, linked by ramps, climb up the tiers, ending 40 feet above the floor. Inside each chamber, a number of plate-shaped disks with dagger-sized spikes protruding from their centers are visible lining the ceiling. Most of the chambers are empty, but a few contain the bones of large unidentifiable beasts.
A blinking red light is visible beside a closed door at the western end of the room.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
This area is lined with stasis cells measuring 10 feet to each side. Each tier contains up to eight stasis cells, and there are four tiers to each stack. When the spaceship was operational, animal and flora exhibits were kept here in stasis and occasionally swapped out for the active exhib- its in areas 3, 4, and 5. Several of the stasis cells malfunc- tioned in the wake of the plague outbreak, their inhabit- ants perishing in captivity, but most remained intact until their occupants were released by the ship’s robots and central computer.
The blinking red light is set into the frame of a large 10-foot-by-10-foot door made from metal and sealed with a color card lock. Only a violet, yellow, or gray card opens the door, which turns the blinking light to a steady green color. Inside is a mostly bare room with a thin layer of white grit covering the floor and a few small mounds If investigated, the mounds
in the center of the spac
reveal themselves to be fossilized bones and the grit is granulated ash. This room is actually a disposal chamber where exhibit specimens that proved to be too danger-
ous or troublesome were put down.
Development. One minute after the door to the dis- posal chamber is opened, the green light begins flashing. One minute after that, the light turns red, a noise sounds, and the disposal chamber’s door swings shut. Anyone inside the chamber at this point must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw to leap through the door be- sealed. Any creature investigating the ar end of the chamber has disadvantage
fore the chambe:
bones or at the f on their Dexterity saving throw.
Once the door closes, the disposal chamber goes through that bombards the interior
is “sanitation cycle,” a proc with deadly radiation. Anyone inside the chamber must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw each round for 10 rounds, taking 17 (5d6) necrotic damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. Any creature reduced to 0 hit points by the cham- killed and become a mixture of ashes and
interrupted.
The sanitation cycle can be stopped by the use of a gray color card from outside of the chamber or by damaging
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
the integrity of the chamber. The door has AC 20, 50 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Bringing the door to 0 hit points causes a breach and the chamber goes into shutdown mode. This shutdown isn’t instantaneous, however, and when the door is broken open, all inside the chamber and within 20 feet of the now open door must make one DC 15 Constitution sav- ing throw as above. After this time, the disposal chamber shuts down and no longer emits radiation.
A &nock spell opens the door, but all inside and nearby are exposed to radiation for 1 round as if the door was broken. A passvall spell is useless against the meta] walls of the chamber.
AREA 25 — THE LIVING BURROW
The dark. mouth of a hole, perhaps an animal’: burrow or a small open pit, is visible atop a low mound of grass-covered earth 20 feet rom the edge of the pathway. Something glitters in the darkness of the hole, but whether it is metal or the gleam of an animal’ eye is impossible to discern at thes distance.
The “hole” is in truth the mouth of a bizarre ambush predator—a living burrow (see appendix B). This crea- ture buries itself in the ground with its mouth open, mak- ing it appear to be a simple earthen burrow on a hillock. Its sucker-covered tentacles and the numerous millipede- like legs it moves about on are easily mistaken for roots and blades of grass. The glittering spotted inside the “burrow” is its tongue, which is coated in reflective slime.
The living burrow will wait until as many creatures are within range of its tentacles before revealing itself, but not so long as to risk letting a meal escape. It attacks im- mediately if a potential prey comes within 5 feet of its mouth. Show the players the cover art from the original module.
Treasure. Inside the living burrow’s gullet are the dis- solved remains of a male dwarf dressed in partially destroyed armor and bearing a broken warhammer. A pouch around its neck contains three emeralds (250 gp each) and a mithril token bearing the symbol of Moradin
(500 gp).
This dwarf was a member of one of the scouting parties first sent to investigate the metal cave and he perished here like his comrades.
AREA 26 - THE PEACE TREE
A 30-foot-tall tree resembling a hybrid of pine tree and massive fern grows in the middle of a small meadon. Its frond-like branches are pale pink in color and droop down to nearly the ground, form- ing a living tent around the base of the tree. Small blue blossoms grow from the branches and at the crown of the tree. The shady grotto formed by the tree’s dangling limbs looks cool and inviting.
Show Handout #58. This tree is a rare species whose flowers produce a natural calming pheromone. All com- ing within 20 feet of the tree must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become passive and nonviolent. While under the effects of the pheromone, a creature cannot attack or otherwise purposely cause harm to another liv- ing being. The pheromone effect lasts for as long as a creature remains within 20 feet of the tree. If an affected being moves outside this range, the pheromone-inflicted passivity ends after the creature remains outside the tree’s area of effect for 10 minutes. A desser restoration spell will also end the effect, but if it is removed while the target is within 20 feet of the tree, it must immediately succeed on another DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or again come under the peaceful mindset.
Creatures beyond the range of the pheromone field can make ranged attacks against those within it, but targets inside the tree’s hanging branches have three-quarters cover.
Development. The peace tree provides an oasis of safe- ty against many of this level’s more dangerous predators. A party of adventurers can take a long rest beneath the tree without being troubled by random encounters or prowling beasts.
The peace tree’s pheromones are products of its blos- soms and the passivity field ends when the flowers have faded. There is a 2 in 6 chance this has occurred the next time the party visits the tree and increases to a 4 in 6 chance if the adventurers return a third time. After three visits, the flowers have automatically faded and the tree no longer produces its safe zone.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 27 —- EXHIBIT RETENTION ZONE 2
Numerous open-faced chambers are arranged in tiers along the verges of this area. Metal platforms, linked by ramps, dimb up the tiers, ending 40 feet above the floor. Inside each chamber, a number of plate-shaped disks with dagger-sized spikes protruding from their centers are visible lining the ceiling. Most of the chambers are empty, but a few contain the bones of large unidentifiable beasts. One chamber holds not bones, however, but a gigantic snail shell composed of a rainbow-colored pearlescent material.
Show Handout #59. Like the other exhibit retention zone, this space was used to keep past and future exhibits for areas 3, 4, and 5 in stasis when not on display. Many of the animal and plant specimens perished in the chaos of the plague; the rest have been set free. One exhibit, however, remains overlooked: a flail snail (see appendix B) gathered on a distant world. It is still in a stasis field, but for how much longer depends on the party’s actions.
A closer inspection of the open-faced chamber contain- ing the glittering snail shell reveals that the open entrance to the 10-feet-on-a-side compartment shimmers slightly like heat haze. This is the force shield that seals it off and remains operational while the stasis chamber is active. A color card slot is set into the left-hand side of the cham-
ber and inserting a violet, yellow, or gray card shuts down the field and ends the stasis effect. The flail snail rouses in 1d4 rounds and then creeps out of the stasis chamber and begins searching for food.
Developments. The flail snail ignores the party unless instead moves to the west and eventually
attacked, an enters the garden area where it begins to feed. It becomes a permanent resident of the artificial forest environment, leaving a broad trail of glassy residue in meandering paths as it eats its way across the garden. In time, the central computer senses that the flail snail is an invasive species and a threat to the environmental balance of the level. Worker robots are first sent to deal with the crea- ture, but in the end police robots are dispatched to de- stroy the ecological menace. This occurs 1d4 days after the flail snail is released into the garden and it is possible that the party might become caught in the crossfire in a battle between the spaceship’s robotic defenders and the
strange mollusk.
If the party attacks the flail snail at any time, it fights in its own defense. The flail snail’s chromatic reflective shell provides unexpected defense against laser weapons: any
attack from a technological device that inflicts radiant damage has disadvantage on its attack roll. If the attack misses, it may be reflected back or converted into a de- structive blast as detailed under the flail snail’s Antimagic Shell trait. If converted into a blast, treat the weapon as having a spell level equal to the number of damage dice it rolls on a successful hit (eg. a laser rifle doing 3d8 radiant damage converts to force damage as if a 3rd-level spell).
Treasure. The flail snails shell is worth 5,000 gp to the right buyer if intact. It weighs 250 pounds.
AREA 28 - FEED STORAGE
The smell of rotting plant matter is rife in this cavernous space. Piles of broken containers lie scattered in unkempt piles through the room, and many have spilled their contents. These crate-sized boxes clearly contained some sort of animal feed, now rotting and rancid. A pair of metallic creatures with cylindrical bodies, pointed heads, and long shining tentacles scurry about the space pushing plow-shaped tools, intent on cleaning up the mess. A large heap of rotted feed is piled in the southeastern corner of the room.
Show Handout #60. Two worker robots (see appendix B) are in the process of cleaning this area where animal feed for the exhibits was once stored. An accident some time ago caused the stacked feed to spill and it has been rotting here ever since. Only in the past few weeks have the robots been sent to correct this accident.
The robots take no notice of the party if they stay out of the way and don’t interfere with them sweeping the rot- ting feed into large piles adjacent to the lift. This decayed matter will be sent down to the cargo hold on Level VI for proper disposal (see area 17 on Level VI for more details on this). Presenting violet or gray color cards to the ro- bots and being able to issue understandable orders allows the party to command them to alter their disposal work (cease cleaning up, deposit the rotted feed elsewhere, etc.), but the robots will not perform tasks for the party or ac- company them elsewhere. If the party attacks the worker robots or prevents them from performing their task, they summon a police robot (see appendix B) to deal with the intruders. It arrives 1 minute after being called.
Development. After 5 minutes of sweeping up a good- sized pile of decayed feed, one of the worker robots acti- vates the lift and it descends to Level VI. The two robots then sweep the piles of rotting food into the open shaft where it falls to area 17 on Level VI below. Any creature standing near the lift when this happens might acciden- tally be swept over the edge by the efficient metal work-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ers. Roll a d6 to determine if any nearby creatures are at risk:
D6 Effect
1-3 The robots sweep the feed off on a side away from where any creature is currently standing. No danger to onlookers.
4.5 One randomly determined creature within 5 feet of the open lift must succeed on a DC 12 Dex- terity saving throw or be knocked into the open shaft, falling 100 feet to area 17 on Level VI and taking 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage.
6 Up to two randomly determined creatures within 5 feet of the open lift must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked into the open shaft, falling 100 feet to area 17 on Level VI and taking 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage.
A creature standing on the lift itself when the robots ac- tivates it, travels safely down to Level VI, but must make
a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw to avoid falling lumps of rotted feed, taking 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage on a failed save.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LEVEL V ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTER
AREA 6 — EMERGENCY SEALANT STORAGE
A metal cage cordons off a 20-foot-square area here. A closed gate with a slot beside it prevents access to the cage’s interior. Through the mesh covering that comprises the cage’ exterior, you see a doxen
Jello cylinders, each covered with strange black symbols and bear-
ing a handle atop it.
This cage contains 12 canisters of emergency sealant (see appendix C). A violet or better color card opens the cage, or the mesh fencing can be lasered open (using either a laser pistol, rifle, or drill and expending 3 charges).
LEVEL VI ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTER
AREA 17- GARBAGE DISPOSAL
The air here is rank with decay despite the high ceiling. Stacks of containers are piled along the walls of the chamber. The floor is occupied by four large altar-like structures, each rising some 10 feet above the floor and perched atop three sturdy legs. The altars are 10 feet in diameter and bowl-shaped. Four odd-looking bent pylons loom over each of the bowls and end in disks with spear-like protrusions in their centers. A pile of organic garbage mixed with metallic debris is heaped in the southeastern section of the room.
This was a cargo hold containing provisions, construc- tion supplies for colonization settlements, and stasis con- tainment units for animal life. The stasis units are empty, but this area isn’t: two otyughs dwell here, released as
a living garbage disposal system by the ship’s computer. The two aberrations occupy the 30-foot-wide, 15-foot- tall trash heap, buried in the pile.
Developments. A creature entering this chamber feels an eerie sensation that manifests as them feeling a mix- ture of curiosity and hunger. They also undergo a strange double vision, seeing themselves as if glimpsed from outside their bodies from the direction of the trash heap. These are the thoughts and sights of the otyughs being telepathically transmitted by the creatures.
The otyughs are well-fed and will not emerge from their trash heap so long as anyone in the area keeps their dis- tance. If the trash heap is approached or searched, the two creatures suddenly erupt from their wallow, with tentacles flailing and making deep bellowing roars to in- timidate those they see as poaching their dinner. If the
S SYS ~ ante aw ae A 2 < & ann BY \\ Uli! a ee me ge ay “a SEG ‘ < ue whe “a 3 x) é. Sac Sug o—sat>) Ha SL re emi ube ge Lea Mm, ny N ny) le sillts se itd wee ig alos 7s ie MMr2 -) i fe) j Ny se cy aay: Sn, y i i ch ©, ~~ i ut, R Fadil iy rks
HT ~ i
HI
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
R (md
tH . bd ys \\) Ce yp) aula Ht ge AHH ct <p) ier MULLEN A aa
intruders back off, the otyughs settle down but keep a careful watch over them. Failing to retreat results in the otyughs attacking anyone in or within 10 feet of the trash heap.
The otyughs’ pile is foul and contains only rotted feed from Level IV above, trash collected by the worker robots, and the occasional mound of animal droppings cleaned up from the garden environment. Searching the trash heap uncovers nothing of value or use, and any searchers must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become diseased as if hit by an otyugh’s Bite attack.
Treasure. The trash heap is devoid of interesting ob- jects, but a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check of the stacked cargo finds a cracked-open crate containing four sets of carpenter’s tools made from nearly unbreakable high-density alloys and plastics, as well as two power discs (see appendix C).
LEVEL VII: BIOLOGICAL MANUFACTURING AND COLONIZATION STORAGE HOLDS
This level contains both biological entity (B.E.) manu- facturing facilities and colonization equipment storage. It also contains a highly-dangerous alien predator which may or may not be in stasis depending on the characters’ actions. If the party meddled with the computer central (area 28 on Level I), the creature could be hiding on this level. See area 19 below when the party arrives on this level.
WANDERING MONSTERS
Each hour the party is exploring this level of the space- ship, roll a d20, On a roll of 1, an encounter occurs. Then roll 1d8 and consult the table below:
is) &
Encounter
1 android (see appendix B)
1d4 type two biological entities (see appendix B) 1d6 grells
2d4 type one biological entities (see appendix B) 1 police robot (Handout #5; see appendix B)
1 worker robot (Handout #6; see appendix B)
1 phase spider
1d4 vampoids (see appendix B)
CYAN AWN
ENCOUNTER AREAS
AREA 1 —- PACIFIER ROBOT BAYS
A pair of metal daises sit in the center of this broad chamber, each accessible by a wide ramp. One dais is bare, but atop the other rests a 10-foot-long oval metal chariot of strange make. It bristles with a number of rod-like protrusions and floats a few feet above the top of the dais. Stout black oily cords dangle from the ceiling and are connected to the metal chariot. At one end of the room is a small altar with a number of glass plates set into the wall above it. Im- ages flicker and dance on some of the plates.
Show Handout #61. This area has two recharge/storage bays fer a pair of the spaceship’s pacifier robots. One has already been dispatched and is the source of the raids af- fecting the area (see chapters 4 and 5), while the other re- mains in “Ready” mode—charged but docked in its bay. Each bay is 20 feet on a side and 6 feet high. The cords connected to the inert pacifier robot are power charging cables. If the cables are struck with slashing weapons or the party makes serious efforts to damage them, anyone in contact with the power cables must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 55 (10d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The altar and glass plates are a monitoring station com- prised of a control panel and computer console with a dozen video displays above it. Six of the monitors are showing video feed from the active pacifier robot assum- ing it hasn’t been destroyed. Otherwise video “snow” is crackling across the monitors.
The monitoring station can be used to stop the active pacifier robot if the PCs can discern how to use it prop- erly. It is of Extraordinary complexity (see appendix C) and each time an Intelligence roll to figure out the device fails there is a 50% chance a police robot (see appendix B) is dispatched to investigate meddling with this impor- tant piece of technology. The robot arrives 1d4 minutes after the failed roll and attempts to apprehend any in- truders it discovers. Multiple failed rolls can potentially summon additional police robots. If the PCs break the station with a mishap, a worker robot (see appendix B) arrives to repair the console, arriving 1d6 minutes after- wards. Unless shown a red or gray color card, the worker robot summons 1d3 police robots (see appendix B) to deal with the meddling trespassers.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
& ur SS NI x8 Lay ———a ———\\
LEVEL VII SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET, we SMW ns
LO
= {| = > X SES WY N SSF ©
we i esta
TLIC
i ee W | J = A aT a RT AN
SPOON
BLACK PUDDING
i [v] VIOLET CARD DOOR fl [ SI
E INTERMITTENT lY | YELLOWCARD DOOR { LIGHT AREA
q }
" \ 3 y rR] RED CARD DOOR \ ua 8 Bee HS AC . poesia aprarprias \ sas GOTONATI i-odJS GEN
Lipp erence Se RT ul MN eatin Sees ‘ae a any) Pinner | Lee Y
IN Xx ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Developments. Mastering the control console allows the player characters to either shut down the active paci- fier robot or to recall it. Only the central computer can reprogram it to perform other duties beyond its current “patrol and pacify” protocols. Shutting down the pacifier robot causes it to cease function wherever it is current- ly. Doing so confuses the android and biological entity support units who remain in the presence of the robot and wait for it to activate again. If the robot doesn’t ac- tivate after 48 hours, the androids return to the ship for new orders while the biological entities disperse into the mountains without leadership. They may prove threats to travelers, but without intelligent guidance will no longer trouble settlements or raid the border keeps.
Instructing the robot to return summons it back to the ship, returning by the most direct route possible. It enters the ship through the lower cargo bay door (area 16, Level VI) then takes the lift back to this level and returns to the empty recharge/storage bay in this room. It remains inactive until another programming hiccup in the central computer occurs, an event that might happen months or centuries from now depending on the DM’s desires.
Deactivating the pacifier robot or causing it to return to its bay for storage rewards the party with full experience points as if they defeated it in battle.
Nothing the characters do will activate the inert pacifier robot. It requires additional authorization from the cen- tral computer.
AREA 2 - BIOLOGICAL ENTITY
PRODUCTION CHAMBER #1
Three rows of large glass cylinders run down the length of this room, each large enough to contain an adult human. A total of 12 cylinders are present and all are filled nith a murky green liquid. Each rests atop a 2-foot-high metal pedestal and is capped with a metal top. Spidery, articulated arms affixed to a network of cross- bars and tracks on the ceiling dangle above each container. Aside from the green liquid, the canisters are empty.
Show Handout #62. The spaceship’s designers realized that planetary colonization was an unpredictable under- taking and, despite everyone’s best efforts and projec- tions, the difficulties facing the mission could not be entirely accounted for. While robotic assistance would aid the colonization efforts, there could occur incidents when other types of servants might prove useful. The ship was therefore equipped with several biological en-
tity production facilities capable of quickly designing and cloning living but disposable life-forms to aid the colo- nists. Raw DNA would be combined in the production laboratory (area 7) then transferred to these areas to be grown in the canisters. Upon reaching maturity, a pro- cess that takes a week, the vats would be transported to the decanting chamber (area 4) for harvesting and basic programming, then equipped and set to their tasks. This production chamber is currently vacant, awaiting its next batch of biological entity DNA if the computer deems another wave of living servants necessary.
Each canister is set into its base but can be unlocked and lifted free by the articulated robotic arms set into the ceil- ing. These limbs run on tracks like a factory production line that allow the canister to be transported to area 4 for decanting.
Development. Each of the 12 canisters here has AC 14, 25 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic dam- age. Since the production chamber is currently not in use, destroying the vats is not registered by the ship’s com- puter and the party could cripple its ability to make more biological soldiers without being detected. Destroying all the vats earns the party 1,200 XP.
AREA 3 - BIOLOGICAL ENTITY
PRODUCTION CHAMBER #2
Three rows of large glass cylinders run down the length of this room, each large enough to contain an adult human. A total of 12 olinders are present, but more than half are cracked and bro- ken. The intact canisters are filled with a murky green liquid and have fleshy growths resembling oversized fetuses floating in the fluid. Each cylinder rests atop a 2-foot-high metal pedestal and is capped with a metal top. Spidery, articulated arms affixed to a network. of crossbars and tracks on the ceiling dangle above each container. The floor of the room is slick with a sour-smelling, viscous green fluid.
This production chamber was damaged during the crash but was accidentally activated by the computer’s faulty programming. The result was that the cracked vats rup- tured and the intact ones failed to bring their biological servants to maturity. Some of the DNA from the dam- aged vats survived in the nutrient-rich fluid and quickly grew into something else—a black pudding of murky green color.
The black pudding lies spread out across the floor on the
indicated section of the map and is so thinly extended that it is only noticeable as something other than spilled
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
vat fluid with a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check. If not noticed, it surprises creatures approaching within 5 feet of it, lashing out with its pseudopod.
AREA 4 - DECANTING ROOM
Ai dozen fan-shaped metal tables are arranged in rows about this room. Each table is set at a roughly 40-degree angle with the broad- est part of it closest to the ground. A raised hood encompasses the base of the wide bottom and a number of oily-looking ropes run from the bottom of the table into the floor. The ceiling is a maze of tracks and skeletal metal arms. On one table, a hulking corpse rots, producing a foul stench that overwhelms the othermise sharp odor of the room.
Show Handout #63. Cloning vats from the production chambers to the southwest were transported to this room by the articulated arms on the ceiling tracks. Each vat was positioned above one of the metal tables and its bottom opened. The clone and the growth fluids inside each vat would spill onto the table and the raised hoods at the bottom of each collection platform would both arrest the sliding newborn entity and collect the growth fluid. The fluid was then pumped back into the storage tanks by the tubes (the oily ropes) set into each table while the articulated arms returned the now-empty vat to its originating production chamber. Worker robots would complete the process of awakening each newly decanted biological entity before sending them to area 5 for nutri- ent injections.
The corpse on the table is a failed type two biological entity that perished in the decanting process due to com- plications in the cloning process. It has yet to be removed by worker robots and is in an advanced state of decay. The corpse is infested with a swarm of rot grubs (see appendix B) and anyone touching the body is attacked by the flesh-eating creatures.
Treasure. There is an emergency station in this room, a white and red cabinet bearing a stylized fire symbol on it set into the south wall. It contains four wound healing canisters and a fully charged fire extinguisher (see appen-
dix C for both).
AREA 5 —- NUTRIENT
ADMINISTRATION
Tno dozen slab-like tables are positioned evenly about this stark white chamber. Above each of the tables is a gleaming metal post hanging 4 feet over the tabletop. Three skeletal, articulated metal arms, each tipped with a sharp-looking barb, extend from the post. A dark glass plate is set into the side of the post at the bottom, facing away from the table.
Show Handout #64. Biological entities were designed to be one-shot living robots used in unforgiving conditions and replaced when damaged or destroyed. Their creators believed them to be tools rather than beings, and little attention was spent on maintaining them. Upon being decanted, each biological entity was given an injection of high-calorie, super-nutritious chemicals designed to sustain them throughout their anticipated short lifespan. Those injections occur here.
The post above each table is a nutrient injector. Each of the injectors is of Moderate complexity (see appendix C). If their proper operation is deduced, the dark glass plate (a computer display) comes alive and a menu appears on its screen, presenting three options in Alien Common: “Baseline Injection,” “Amplified Metabolism Injection,” and “Hostile Environment Deployment Injection.” A sub-menu with the options “High Temperature,” “Low Temperature,” “Caustic,” “Extreme Static,” and “High Decibel” appears if the hostile environment option is se- lected. Only a single option can be chosen at a time.
Once a menu item is chosen, a “Deploy Injection?” op- tion appears which, when touched, activates the injector and delivers the selected injection to whomever is lying on the table underneath it. If no living creature is present on the injection bed, an error message appears and the menu cycles back to the first three options.
Developments. Each of the injections has a different effect on creatures other than the biological entities. These are as follows:
* Baseline Injection: The target must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw as they are injected with high-calorie, super-nutritious synthetic chemicals spe- cially designed for the biological entities’ metabolism. On a successful saving throw, the target’s body assimi- lates the chemicals and they can survive up to 2 weeks without eating and only consuming a cup of water a day. If the target fails the save, they take 35 (10d6) poison damage from the chemicals and are poisoned.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The poisoned condition ends if removed magically or after the creature completes a long rest.
+ Amplified Metabolism Injection: Designed to sup- plement the biological entities’ body chemistry when high-intensity tasks were anticipated, these chemi- cals are even less easily assimilated by normal living tissue than the baseline injection. The target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, suffering 45 (10d8) poison damage and becoming poisoned on a failed saving throw. The poisoned condition ends if removed magically or after the creature completes a long rest. On a successful save, in addition to the benefits of the baseline injection, the target’s speed is amplified. This manifests as if the creature is under the effects of a haste spell for 1 hour. The target be- comes incapacitated after this hour elapses and ends this condition only by completing a short or long rest.
¢ Hostile Environment Deployment Injection: Giv- en to the biological entities when forced to perform in truly unforgiving environments, this substance is dangerous to non-biological entities. The target must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 55 (10d10) poison damage. If this damage reduces the creature’s hit points to 0, it dies. The creature is also poisoned, which ends if removed magically or with a long rest. On a suc- cess, in addition to the effects of the baseline injec- tion, the creature also gains the benefits of a protection Jrom energy spell. The type of energy is chosen by the operator when this option is selected corresponding to the various environments on the sub-menu: acid (“Caustic”), cold (“Low Temperature”), fire (“High Temperature”), lightning (“Extreme Static”), or thun- der (“High Decibel’). The protection benefits last for 24 hours. After this period, the target suffers from damage vulnerability to the formerly protected energy type for 24 hours, after which the creature returns to
it natural body state.
The injectors have an effectively endless supply of chem- icals, but no creature can be under the effects of more than one injection type at a time. The most recent injec- tion supersedes a previous one. A new saving throw must be made each time it is subjected to another injection.
AREA 6 —- TOOL FORGE
Al bulky device comprised of oval metal canisters affixed to an angled box the size of a cart occupies the space in the center of the chamber. A flat glass-topped table protrudes from the box, its surface glowing with a pale white light. A hood, like that of a blacksmith’s forge, hangs 3 feet above the glowing glass table. A number of small metal squares are set into the box's side beside a lass plate.
This device is capable of fabricating simple tools and sim- ilar devices, making it unnecessary to fill the ship’s cargo holds with extraneous weight. A quick-setting chemical compound is pumped from the oval containment tanks into the boxy fabricator and the desired object’s struc- ture is imprinted into the compound. The hood over the glowing table then descends and the “smart material’ is formed into the proper shape and quick-set. The hood then rises after 1 minute of processing time, revealing the new item. The keypad and display monitor (the squares and glass plate) allow the operator to choose from a menu of more than 100 different items to create the most use- ful tool for the job. The ship’s computer is also tied into the forge and can program it to create runs of items. The tool forge is of Difficult complexity (see appendix C).
If the tool forge is operated correctly, the user can create up to 1,000 simple tools and weapons before the chemi- cal compound tanks run dry. Each tool must be either a solid item or contain no more than three separate parts (a pair of shears or a longbow, for example, could be made, but nota laser pistol) and must be no larger than 4 square feet in size. The characters can search through the forge’s catalog of object blueprints, making it an easy if lengthy process of determining what the device can and cannot make. The forge is currently set to make battleaxes, the default weapon given to the biological entities assisting the pacifier robot in its duties. The DM has final say in what the forge can and cannot manufacture.
Treasure. Theoretically, the forge can be programmed to produce items like gold bars and gemstones if the DM allows for it. These objects resemble their real counter- parts at quick glance, but anyone who gets a close look and succeeds on a DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation), In- telligence (Nature), or Wisdom (Perception) check deter- mines that the item is a fake.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 7-— DNA PRODUCTION LABORATORY
High benches covered mith curious glassware, transparent pieces of horn, and altars bearing small tiles and protrusions fill this chamber. Skeletal articulated metal arms hang from the ceiling on a network of tracks. A glass-faced box rests atop a bench at one end of the room, its interior glowing with blue light. Through the transparent front of the container, two small round disks contain- ing some substance is visible. A metal duck-billed creature stands near a bench, performing an unknown task.
Show Handout #65. DNA from the storage bank (area 9) was reconstituted and combined in this laboratory be- fore being injected into the tanks in areas 2 and 3 for gestation. A specialized worker robot (see appendix B) is currently mixing up the next batch of type one biological entity DNA for another run of the artificially gestated servants. If shown a yellow or higher color card, the worker robot ignores the party, otherwise it summons a police robot (see appendix B) to deal with the intruders. The police robot arrives in 1 minute. The worker robot cannot be commanded by the party regardless of what color card they possess. If the party causes damage, the worker robot summons a police robot even if they’ve displayed an appropriate color card.
The glowing box is a specialized stasis unit containing two experimental life-forms. One is very useful, but the second is lethal. The first appears to be a lump of dark blue clay-like matter contained in a covered plastic petri dish. The second is a vibrant red slime mold in a similar
container.
The clay-like matter eats ferrous metal like a rust monster (q.v.) eating up to 1 cubic foot of ferrous material in a single meal. Each time the matter eats this type of metal, it produces gold as waste. It expels a mass of pure gold worth 1d6 x 100 gp after every meal. After 10 meals, the viscous creature goes into hibernation that lasts for 1d6 months. During this time, it displays no signs of life and appears to have died. Once the hibernation period elapses, it rouses and seeks its next meal. The creature
eats only once a day and ignores any offered metal until 24 hours have passed once it has been fed. It has AC 5 and 2 hit points and should be treated as an object rather
than a monster for game purposes.
The slime mold is actually a deadly virus. If its petri dish is opened, all breathing creatures within 20 feet of it must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking
55 (10d10) necrotic damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. If a creature is re- duced to 0 hit points from this damage, it is killed. Cast- ing /esser restoration or puriy food and drink on the petri dish before opening it kills the virus and negates its deadly properties.
AREA 8- BROKEN DOORS
The walls, ceiling, and floor at this area are black. with soot and damaged ly some explosive force. The shredded remains of a metal creature, its cylindrical body peeled open like an exotic fruit, les slumped by a door in the north wall. The damage has bent back part of the door and white light spills from the gap. A second door to the east stands open entirely, leading to a darkened room beyond.
The metal creature is a destroyed police robot that suf- fered a catastrophic failure of its internal grenade arse- nal. The explosion destroyed it, damaged the corridor, and bent open the door leading to area 9. The shock also disabled the lock on the door to area 27 and it is perma- nently ajar. Nothing is salvageable from the robot and even touching it causes the highly damaged machine to collapse completely into scrap.
AREA 9 - DNA STORAGE BANK
This area is filled with rectangular glass containers arranged in rows down the length of the room. Each is lit from within, making the white walls of the chamber gleam mith sterile brightness. Inside each of the 10 containers are hundreds of tiny transparent slats the size of a tinder box. Each contains a coin-sized drop of yellow fluid. From somewhere deeper in the room, the sound of breaking glass is heard.
DNA from countless animal species, both those native to the colonists’ home world and gathered on alien planets along the ship’s route, are stored in the glass containers. These refrigerated units measure 8 feet tall by 6 feet deep by 3 feet wide and contain 1,000 crystalline slides hold- ing the DNA in a liquid medium. Tiny alien characters classify each slide’s DNA and an input keypad set in the side of the containers activates a small robotic arm that withdraws a desired slide. The chosen slide is deposited in a dispensing drawer for collection.
The sound of breaking glass comes from four type two biological entities (see appendix B) that have gotten into the DNA bank through the damaged doorway and are currently smashing refrigeration banks for the pleas-
ing sound of shattering glass.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
The type two biological entities are dim-witted even for their species and the presence of the PCs is likely to baf- fle them. If the characters address the creatures, each must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be perplexed by the party. This period of indecision lasts for 2 rounds, after which they decide to smash the PCs to see if they, too, make interesting noises. Attacks against the type two biological entities while they are pondering how to deal with the party have advantage and the creatures are at disadvantage on any saving throws. The biological entities are no longer perplexed the round after they are attacked.
One of the type two biological entities has a monoblade fire axe (see appendix C). It uses the following attack when wielding that weapon which it can use as part of its Multiattack action:
Monoblade Fire Axe: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) slashing dam- age plus 2 (1d4) necrotic damage.
AREA 10-ANDROID BLANKS STORAGE
Two tiers of rectangular niches resembling open coffins set side- by-side are on either side of this room. Each of the coffin-sized compartments contains a human body dressed in a plain white shift. These beautiful men and women lie motionless, their eyes closed, exhibiting no signs of life. A walkway reached by a pair of ramps is present on either side of the chamber, separating each of the tiers. Ai cylindrical metal creature with serpentine tentacles and a flat round head moves down the length of the chamber.
This area is a storage hold for yet-to-be activated an- droids. Each android is inert and lacks any programming. They are effectively living corpses until the ship’s com- puter deems it necessary to activate them. There are a to- tal of 200 “coffins” or android bays present, divided into four tiers of 50 each. Of the bays, 167 of them contain inert androids, while the rest are empty.
A police robot (see appendix B) is permanently assigned to this chamber to protect the blank androids. The unit is programmed to provide one warning and if not com- plied with in 2 rounds or shown a gray color card, to at- tack intruders with lethal force.
Development. If the party defeats an android within the spaceship and later retreats from the vessel, the ship’s computer replaces the destroyed artificial humanoid with one from these 167 spares. At the DM’s discretion, an- droids assisting the pacifier robot on its duties might also
be replaced if the party is having too easy a time. Obvi- ously, if the party defeats more than 167 androids, re- placements no longer occur.
AREA 11 -ANDROID PROGRAMMING CENTER
A low raised dais sits in the center of this room and has eight chairs arranged in a circle atop it..A hemispherical dome is set into the ceiling directly above the chairs and thin cords dangle from its Gleaming golden surface to the chairs below it. A large dark glass Plate is set into the side of the dome facing the room's entrance. Eight beautiful humans, an equal mixture ef males and females, sit in the chairs with a number of cords attached to their brows. The perimeter of the room is filled with boy devices the height of a human, each covered with blinking lights and whirling wheels behind glass.
Show Handout #66. Eight androids (see appendix B) are present in the room, but each is currently incapaci- tated by the programming process. Whenever an android needs new instruction, the ship’s computer summons it here where it sits down in one of the programming chairs and interfaces with the central computer via the termi- nal cords. Its internal programming is then updated, a process that takes anywhere from a minute to an hour, depending on the updates or changes being downloaded.
The boxy devices are computer data stores and opera- tion terminals. They are far beyond the skills of even the smartest character to master and attempting to operate them randomly can have undesirable results (see Devel- opments).
The androids present are being reprogrammed to either assist the pacifier robot if it is still active or to replace damaged units on Level I (probably destroyed by the PCs’ own actions). They each complete programming and become active 1 minute after the party enters this room. Before that time, they are incapacitated and may be dispatched with ease by the player characters. Once their reprogramming is completed, they become active and fight in their own defense.
Developments. If the characters fiddle with the com- puter terminals, roll 1d6. On a result of 4 or better, the blinking lights change their patterns and the whirling wheels (data tape spindles) spin faster or in another di- rection, but no other effect occurs. On a roll of 3 or less, roll 1d4 on the table below. Make a 1d6 roll for each creature experimenting with the terminal, repeating the roll each round they persist in playing with the computer.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
D4 Effect
1 Explosion: All creatures within 20 feet of the terminal must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage and 5 (1d10) force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The androids slump in their chairs, their programming interrupted. They remain forever inert. A police robot and a worker robot (see appendix B for both) arrive in 1d3 minutes to investigate and begin repairs. The police robot attempts to arrest any creature it finds here regardless of any color card displayed. Activate combat programming: If the an- droids are allowed to finish their programming update unimpeded, they activate with advanced combat protocols enacted. The androids have
we
advantage on all attack rolls and saving throws, and a critical range of 17-20. They attack the party immediately upon awakening.
3 Cease programming: The programming up- date to the eight androids ceases and they go inert. They remain inactive until this result is rolled again, upon which the programming re- commences.
4 Activate all androids: All 167 android blanks in area 10 are roused from their bays and come to this room for programming. They cram into the enclosed space, threatening to trample any crea- ture present. Movement is halved in the crowd and all creatures other than the androids must succeed in a DC 15 Strength check each round or suffer 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage from being crushed and trampled. The need to make saving throws ends once a creature escapes this room. The androids remain in the area for 1d4 hours, after which time the central computer regains control and orders them back into storage.
AREA 12 - COLONIZATION SUPPLY STORAGE
Large crates made from a smooth, horn-like material fill this cav- ernous space. Each of the 20-foot-long, 10-foot-high, 10-foot-nide containers is bright orange and covered ith an array of alien char- acters in black ink.
There are 40 containers in this cargo hold, each of which contains raw materials (metal sheeting, plastic slabs, in- sulation, wire fencing, support struts, etc.) to create a
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
base camp for up to 100 people. It was intended for the containers to be transported to the planet’s surface upon arrival and then assembled by the ship’s worker robots, providing the colonists with housing at the start of the colonization process. Each crate is sealed and requires a violet card to open.
Four fully grown phase spiders live in the hold, their webs strung between the containers near the center of the room. As such, the webbing won’t be noticed until the party begins to explore the area in earnest and walk among the containers. At that time, the phase spiders at- tack, trying to keep their prey boxed in by the crates.
Treasure. In the webbing are the remains of a type one biological entity. Aside from its battleaxe, the creature has an inactive hologram emitter (see appendix C) that it thought pretty. Additionally, one of the crates con- tains six all-weather shelters (see appendix C) with fully charged power discs.
AREA 13 - RADIATION AREAS
A green glow seems to pulse from the contents of this room as if everything in it was under some eerie magical effect.
Each of these rooms is radiation-filled and contains con- taminants which are hazardous to living creatures. Any creature capable of being poisoned who enters these ar- eas may be subject to radiation sickness. These creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned after (1d4 + 1) x 10 minutes. After 1 hour, the creature loses 1 point of Strength and los- es another point for each subsequent hour they retain the poisoned condition. If a creature is reduced to 0 Strength, they are dead. Anti-radiation serum removes the poisoned condition and lost Strength is regained with a long rest.
AREA 14 - CARGO HOLD ENTRANCE
A massive door once barred entry to the area beyond, but the steel valve is now bulging and buckled. Broken storage containers lie smashed to flinders around and inside the broken door, forming a 10-foot-high barricade of twisted metal. A large gap at the top of the pile leads into whatever lies beyond the door. Flickering light is visible through the opening.
When the spaceship crashed, this part of the vessel took the brunt of the impact and the contents of this cargo hold were sent flying. A large pile of storage containers smashed into this door, breaking it outward and partially
blocking the doorway. The toom’s sensors were damaged in the crash and the computer is unaware of the state of this hold. As such, no repair robots have ever been dis- patched to fix the damage.
Climbing over the barricade of twisted, broken storage containers (which once held construction materials now rusted, rotted, and bent beyond use), is a trivial matter, but unless attempted stealthily, it is a noisy process. This alerts the mutant umber hulk in area 15A of intruders and it cannot be surprised.
AREA 15 - WRECKED CARGO HOLD
The contents of this large, high-ceiling chamber are strewn about the floor of the space. High piles of steel crates and barrel-shaped containers of horn-like material le smashed and broken in tower- ing heaps as if thrown about by an angry giant. Bent metal bars, torn fabric, broken devices of incomprehensible purpose, and other debris lie everywhere. A portion of the wall to the northeast is buckled and twisted, showing damage from a tremendous impact. The lighting here is intermittent, plunging into darkness for brief moments before blazing back to daylight conditions.
Once a well-organized cargo hold, the crash caused great damage to this area, snapping support beams and breaking gravitational restraining fields and upending the hold’s contents. It is now a junkyard filled with useless broken supplies and a terrible mutated threat.
A mutant two-headed umber hulk (see appendix B) has claimed this hold as its lair after succumbing to the effects of the radiation in the nearby secondary hold. It is normally found in its den (area 15A), but if intrud- ers made noise climbing the barricade at area 14, it slips out and waits to ambush them among the debris. Show Handout #67.
Development. The lighting here shuts down at random intervals, filling the area with darkness. At the start of each combat round, the DM rolls 1d6, and on a 6 the lights go out. At the start of each new round after dark- ness falls, another 1d6 is rolled. On a result of 5+ the lights remain off and darkness remains; otherwise the room becomes brightly lit again.
Note that unless the party has a light source, any creature without darkvision will be unable to see the umber hulk and is immune to both its Confusing Gaze and Scintillat- ing Gaze traits while the darkness persists. Sometimes it’s
good to be human...
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 15A— MUTANT UMBER HULK
DEN
A 20 -foot-high, 40-foot-wide pile of strange rectangular blocks lies here among the shattered debris. Each of the blocks is massive, like the building stones of a great temple. They appear to be smooth and somewhat resemble blue-colored horn. A tunnel has been hewed into the pile, forming a cave-like mouth some 10 feet in nidth and 8 feet high.
These large blocks are raw building materials that certain machines are capable of turning into a variety of compo- nents. There are more than 500 4-foot-wide, 4-foot-deep, 6-foot-long blocks here, each weighing 200 pounds. The mutated umber hulk discovered it could burrow through them and excavated a “cave” inside the heap to serve as its den. The creature is found rummaging through its junk bin here if the party stealthily entered the area or otherwise haven’t attracted its attention.
Beyond the tunnel entrance is an open space roughly 20 feet in diameter. A crude bed made from scavenged fab- rics and other soft debris occupies one end of the cave. A pile of shredded ship’s rations containers is heaped in another corner, and an open box opposite the entrance is filled with brightly colored and shiny junk scrounged from the cargo hold.
Treasure. The box holds mostly shiny trash that caught the umber hulk’s many eyes, but mixed in with the glit- tering garbage are 15 gem bearings (100 gp each), three needler clips, two power discs, and a fragmentation gre- nade (see appendix C for these items).
AREA 16 —- RANSACKED STORAGE ROOM
The western door to this small room is broken open, its surface scarred by large gouges and scrapes. Inside are many bare shelves, but a few hold sealed paper-like cases. The floor of the room is ankle-deep in empty metal cans, silver foil, and crumpled paper.
This room contained emergency supplies, mostly ship’s rations. The mutated umber hulk has been using it as its personal larder for some time. The garbage on the floor is all from empty ship’s rations packets.
The shelves are mostly bare, but 20 cases of ship’s rations (see appendix C) remain. Each case contains 21 meals.
Treasure. Buried underneath the layer of trash on the floor and noticeable with a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check is a wound healing canister (see appendix C).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED o
AREA 17- LAIR OF THE VAMPOIDS
This area is dark and crowded with hulking metal boxes, each connected to a myriad of tubes, pipes, and oily-looking ropes. The floor is also metal and pools of condensation have formed on it over the countless years. Even now the faint drip of water echoes through the gloom. Many narrow paths wind among the silent metal objects, disappearing deeper into the room. The entire room is cold, much colder than anywhere else in the complex.
This room houses numerous sub-systems related to the biological entity production and decanting areas, many of which resemble industrial machinery rather than sleek futuristic devices. It is an ominous place, one well suited as a home for the weird species of creatures known as vampoids.
Development. If the party explores this area, some of the machines briefly come to life, making rattling noises like ill-maintained air conditioners or leaking harmless industrial fluids. The occasional creak or clunk is heard as the party winds their way through the devices.
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 17A —- VAMPOID NEST
Six: curious leathery pods hang from the ceiling near the center of the room. Each is dark brown in color and resembles a teardrop caught in midair. A single spindly support rises from the bulb to clutch a pipe or strut overhead. They sway slightly as if moved by a light breeze. A light layer of frost is visible on the floor and ceiling, but the pods are untouched by the cold.
These are six vampoids (see appendix B), weird stellar vampiric creatures that coast through the verges of space. Whether they came aboard the ship through the actions of the crew or invaded it looking for prey will never be known, but the vessel’s crash has brought them down out of the stars. The vampoids are currently dozing, their leathery wings wrapped around their bodies curled in a fetal position, a single leg clinging to the ceiling.
If any of the PCs are currently injured, the vampoids smell their blood even in their dozing state and imme- diately awaken, hungry and alert. An uninjured creature can approach the “pods” without disturbing them or otherwise avoid detection with a successful DC 9 Dex- terity (Stealth) check.
Development. The vampoids are intelligent and have become aware of the spaceship’s current circumstances. If they suffer great losses, the survivors will flee this lev- el and possibly escape to the outside world through the cargo bay exit on Level VI (area 16), forsaking the ship for new hunting grounds. Rumors of strange vampire at- tacks soon begin to spread throughout the land...
Treasure. Each vampoid carries a violet card and one also possesses a yellow card. They own a collection of trinkets, among which are a gold ring (500 gp), six 1,000 gp gems, a silver and diamond bracelet (2,500 gp), and a blaster pistol with a drained power disc (see appendix C).
AREA 18 — GENETICISTS’ QUARTERS
Four beds, their covers stained dark, are positioned about this room. Narrow doors are set into the walls between the beds, and a transparent table surrounded by four ladle-shaped chairs rests near the entrance. Three skeletons lie on the floor, yet no skulls are visible among the rag-dressed bones.
Four of the spaceship’s scientists charged with maintain- ing the DNA banks and harvesting new samples resided here close to their laboratory. When the plague struck, one of their number developed an unsettling fascina- tion with a specimen the scientists collected on an alien world and began to revere it as a malignant deity in need
of appeasement. That madman slew his fellows, collect- ing the repositories of their accumulated knowledge and wisdom—i.e., their heads—as offerings to his dreadful new god (see area 19). Their bodies remained here undis- covered since the chaotic days of the outbreak.
A DC 15 Intelligence (Medicine) check made in conjunc- tion with examining the bodies reveals they each died from a savage attack with a large bladed weapon and that the heads were likely taken post-mortem.
The narrow doors are personal lockers which contain a variety of personal clothing and possessions in poor con- dition.
Treasure. Three yellow cards are found in the lockers, along with four pieces of jewelry worth 1d6 x 100 gp each. A locked, hard plastic case (opens with a yellow card) contains a sample-collection pistol with four darts (see appendix C).
AREA 19 - MADMAN’S SHRINE
DM Note: If the PCs meddled with the central com- puter console on Level I and caused a fire, the cylinder described below may be empty. See Developments for more information.
This room is dominated by a 10-foot-tall, 4-foot-wide cylinder filled with turquoise liquid. Suspended within the liquid is a terrible monstrosity, a humanoid thing covered in sharply angled plates, swept-back, spikes, and jutting teeth from an understung jaw. Larg- er than a man, the creature possesses six limbs: two insectile legs and four arms, two of which protrude from the creature's upper back and end with blade-like talons. A pair of barbed tails are coiled about the unmoving creature. Set befere the cylinder are three skulls surrounded by bons of some congealed yellow substance.
The creature in the tube is a death-drinker (see appen- dix B), the apex predator from a world filled with vicious, deadly beasts. It is currently in suspended animation, its stasis cylinder brought here by the madman who wor- shipped and feared it during the days of the plague. For the moment, it is harmless. Show Handout #68.
The three skulls are those from the unfortunate scien- tists in area 18. A search of the room discovers another skeleton here, this one with its skull, and a large piece of sharpened metal, like a crude sword, lying beside it. There is a rough resemblance between the sword and the angled, sharpened plates and spikes covering the death- drinker as if the weapon’s creator, although unskilled, was intentionally attempting to mimic the creature’s nat-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ural weaponry. The blade is an improvised weapon that does damage as a longsword.
The bowls contain congealed fat and appear to be can- dles of crude manufacture. They emit dim illumination up to 15 feet and smoke terribly if lit.
Developments. If the party experimented with the computer console on Level I (area 28) and achieved a result of 1 (Minor fire) on the table, their meddling trig- gered the awakening of the death-drinker. This process takes 48 hours. After this time, the death-drinker emerges from its long sleep and sets out to both feed and learn of its surroundings. The death-drinker is a cautious preda- tor, using its stealth to take prey unaware. It is cunning enough to realize when it is outmatched and will escape if clearly in danger of losing.
If the death-drinker is free from stasis when the party arrives on this level, it becomes aware of their presence 30 minutes after they arrive. It then begins to stalk the group, using its Chameleon Camouflage to hide. The death-drinker will attack weak or separated groups be- fore large ones, but if no opportunity arises after an hour of stalking its prey, it will attack a group, preferably when they’re at less than full strength (during a short rest, im- mediately after they’ve defeated another monster and are injured, etc.).
If the party hasn’t caused a minor fire when meddling with the computer console, the death-drinker is still in stasis and remains harmless to the party and other in- habitants of the spaceship. The stasis tube has AC 15, 20 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Destroying the cylinder causes the suspension liquid to spill out and free the creature. Damaging the stasis tube or meddling with the computer are the only two possible ways to free the death-drinker.
If this occurs, the death-drinker immediately comes out of stasis, but suffers disadvantage on all attack rolls, sav- ing throws, and ability checks during the first 2 rounds after being freed. After this time, it acts normally and is both hungry and angry. The PCs are likely to feel the brunt of its anger unless they put up a good fight and reduce the death-drinker to half its hit points or less. In this event, the death-drinker flees battle and looks for a
place to lick its wounds and discover where it is. In time, it recovers and, if the party remains on this level, begins to hunt them as described above.
Treasure. The skeleton has a violet color card and a bad- ly shaped lump of gold that bears a crude resemblance to the death-drinker on a cord around its neck. The amulet is worth 200 gp.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
AREA 20 —- GIBBERING MADNESS
DM Note: A successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check outside the door to this room detects the sound of a faint, incomprehensible conversation, like many peo- ple discussing something at once. This is the gibbering mouthers within, sensing the PCs’ presence and begin- ning to jabber with excitement.
This room contains a filthy bed and a high bench covered in incom- prehensible glass and metal tools, all scattered in disarray. A trio of narrow doors are set side-by-side in the south wall. In the center of the room is a horrific sight: two masses of churning amorphous flesh, their pale red bodies covered with countless eyes and jabbering mouths from which a cacophony of vileness spills,
This room was formerly the quarters of one of the ship’s xenobiologists who collected samples from a distant world. These samples were kept in stasis in his room. The recent earthquake that exposed the ship caused the small stasis cages to fall from the workbench and shatter, releasing some of the samples. The escaped life-forms began devouring one another and now only two remain: a pair of gibbering mouthers. Hungry and anxious to escape, they attack anything they see.
The bench was once the xenobiologist’s spare laboratory and it contains the ruins of sample dishes, isolation beak- ers, probes, gauges, and other scientific devices.
The three narrow doors are storage lockers that contain personal belongings and clothing, now tattered with age.
Development. Once the door to this room opens, the color card lock sparks and a puff of stinking smoke spills from the card slot. The door cannot be closed until re- paired by a worker robot (see appendix B), which arrives here in 1d3 x 10 minutes.
If the gibbering mouthers are not defeated here (the par- ty flees, for example), they now have free range about the level and quickly begin devouring any organic life they encounter. Each hour they are free, each’s hit point total increases by 10 until it reaches their maximum possible hit point of 99 after three and a half hours. At that point, the gibbering mouthers are CR 3 (700 XP) creatures.
Treasure. There is a yellow card underneath the bed. One of the lockers contains a silver garment that covers the wearer's entire body. The material of the suit repels toxic chemicals and dangerous bacteria, granting the wearer ad- vantage on all saving throws to resist poison damage and effects. However, the suit is susceptible to tears and punc- tures and if the wearer takes 10 points or more of piercing or slashing damage, the suit no longer provides any benefit.
AREA 21 —- KITCHEN
Bare countertops with a number of large trenchers made from a curious horn-like material are present in this room. Along one wall is a bench with eight metal boxes resting atop tt. Each box has a dark colored glass door in its front and a number of small square metal plates set beside it..A short black cylinder is visible atop each box as well. Along another wall is a fine metal mesh with a rivet below it. Next to this is a lng narrow door. Near the entrance is a dark glass plate with four rivets below it.
Everything which was possibly useful and not bolted down has been removed from this area. However, there are still computer operated food dispensers as indicated in the kitchen. The objects described above are—for the DM’°s benefit—food dispensers (the metal boxes atop the bench) with selector buttons (the small square metal plates), and a temperature control knob (the black cylin- der); a communications system call box (the metal mesh with rivet, the call box’s operating button); and the daily menus screen (the glass plate with four buttons), which no longer works. The narrow door opens to a small com- partment containing a number of shelves and is a reftig- eration unit. The large trenchers are plastic trays.
Some of the food dispensers still function and are oper- ated by punching the appropriate selector buttons and twisting the temperature control knob to the desired heat/cold setting. If food is dispensed, it will be served in a compartmented tray of a horn-like material (plastic).
Only 1d6 + 1 dispensers in this kitchen function, but there is a 50% chance the dispenser produces poisonous food. Anyone consuming poisonous food must succeed in a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become poi- soned. The creature remains poisoned until the condi- tion is removed or they take a long rest. Non-poisonous food provides nourishment as normal and the DM is encouraged to use her imagination in describing what random meal the dispenser produces and how it tastes to the eater.
AREA 22 —- DINING ROOM
This chamber was clearly once a feast hall of some kind, able to meet the dining needs of a dozen or more eaters. The furnishings are now displaced, overturned, and in shambles. Eating utensils and large trenchers lie scattered on the floor. White bones can be glimpsed among the mess. A gleaming suit of armor made from smooth plates and a ribbed leather-like material lies atop one of the tables.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
This mess hall served the xenobiologists and geneticists that lived on this level. It contains long mess tables in cafeteria-style seating. The furnishings are jumbled, and there are quite a number of skeletons and bones strewn about. They have nothing of value within them.
The suit of armor resembles powered armor but is ac- tually a mimic taken on a form that has attracted the attention of the biological entities. It attacks anyone in- specting it.
AREA 23 - SEALED DROP TUBES
A olindrical chamber about 20 feet in diameter stands in the center of this area. Its interior ts accessible by a pair of open arch- ways facing one another on opposite sides of the chamber. Within the cylinder, a pair of wide bands bearing metal handles spaced 8 feet apart run vertically down the other two walls. The floor of the chamber is solid, covered by tightly overlapping angled metal plates.
When the spaceship was intact, these drop tubes led down to additional decks. Upon being separated from the main ship, sphincter seals activated to preserve the atmosphere of the jettisoned decks. Even if the seal was somehow breached with technology or magic, only solid rock lies underneath the vessel. The drop tubes them- selves are unpowered and normal gravity exists inside each. The handles are immobile.
AREA 24 - LOOTED QUARTERS
This room may have once been living quarters or a common room, but is long disused. The furniture is made from rusting, pitted metal and another now dingy material similar to leather but of great rigidity. From the state of the chamber, it looks like someone or something looted the place thoroughly.
These rooms were living quarters for the level’s staff but have been thoroughly looted. Each contains some jum- bled furniture or rotting goods therein, and from 1d4 - 1 inanimate skeletons of generally human appearance. Everything is worthless or in bad condition, the furnish- ings are plastic or metal, and only bits of rag or odd piec- es of junk can be found.
AREA 25 - CARGO HOLDS
A large space crammed with giant boxes and cylinders, each marked with indecipherable glyphs, is discovered here. These containers are stacked near to the ceiling in places and are arranged with a sense of order. Aisles pass through the stacked piles, leading deeper into the chamber. Some of the containers appear damaged and there are heaps of moldering organic and rusting metallic debris spilled from them.
These areas are still filled with huge crates and contain- ers which hold building materials, fertilizers, and similar colonization materials. There will be some destruction of goods noted, as well as human bones here and there— the remains of the plague when crewmen went insane. The party will find nothing of value in any cargo hold not specially noted.
AREA 26 — SUPPLY ROOMS
Bare shelves and litter are all that remain in this room, which may have once contained supplies or similar storage. It has clearly been Looted long ago.
These supply rooms were pillaged during the plague and have nothing of value. However, they are ignored by all of the level’s inhabitants except the death-drinker (see area 19). If that creature is still in stasis, a party can take a long rest in one of these rooms without fear of encoun- tering a wandering monster.
AREA 27 - AUTOMATED ASSEMBLY AREA
Hulking metal machines of indeterminate purpose crowd this chamber. Long lengths of otly leather extend on rollers passing through some of the curious devices. A walkway accessible by lad- ders runs along the perimeter of the chamber, overlooking the silent machines.
This space was an automated factory designed to assem- ble certain intricate mechanisms and equipment upon reaching the destination planet. The machines are pow- ered down, ill-maintained, and a mass of automated as- sembly lines, robotic arms, and other complex parts.
A behir that was recently released from stasis has claimed this area as its den, coming and going through the damaged door at the western end of the room. It hides among the silent machines, when not hunting this level or the ones above.
Development. The behit’s breath sends power surges through the equipment here. Any creature struck by its Lightning Breath attack must also make a DC 15 Dex- terity (Acrobatics) check as a section of assembly line springs to life from the power surge. A creature failing this check becomes restrained (escape DC 12) by the ma- chinery as robotic limbs grab it, presses entrap its cloth- ing, or other complications arise. A creature also suffers 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage if it ends its turn restrained.
The behir’s breath activates a 10-square-foot section of
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
machinery. This area is considered difficult terrain and any cteature attempting to move through this area or ending its turns in it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check to avoid being restrained.
Treasure. Atop one of the walkways is a pile of scrap metal. Buried in the heap are three spools of gold wire worth 1,000 gp each and two spools of platinum wire worth 5,000 gp each.
AREA 28 - ROBOT STORAGE
Thirty or more metallic creatures with cylindrical bodies, long ser- pentine tentacles, and skinny arms ending in pinchers line the walls of this room, each wrapped in a translucent material. A pair of different metal creatures, these with thinner bodies and lacking pincher arms, move silently down in the center of the chamber in opposite directions.
Show Handout #69. Forty inactivated worker robots (see appendix B) are stored here to serve as replacements and to aid in colony building at the end of the vessel’s journey. Two police robots (see appendix B) patrol the
room to protect them from sabotage.
The police robots have gone a little mad with age and believe the worker robots are their children and must be protected. Anyone entering the room is considered a threat to their “babies” and the police robots use lethal force to protect them. No color card will command them and one police unit is 75% likely to pursue intruders if they retreat from the room. The other remains to defend their brood.
The worker robots cannot be activated by any means oth- er than the central computer, and it is not programmed to do so unless sizable losses of active robots occur. If the party destroys 10 or more worker robots, an equal num- ber from this area are brought online to replace them.
Treasure. A security locker similar to that found in Po- lice HQ (see area 25, Level I) is located here. It contains 12 sleep gas, four poison gas, four incendiary, and four fragmentation grenades (see appendix C). Each of the worker robots contains 1d10 gem bearings worth 100 gp each, but stripping them requires 1 hour of work per robot.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
APPENDIX A
Against the Venomous Warlord!
he party may discover the VR pods in the spaceship’s
rec area (area 38, Level I) while exploring the dun-
geon. Using the pods plunges them into an artificial reality in which they become heroes in a world of futuris- tic swords and sorcery. The original crew and passengers of the ship found this virtual simulation to be a pleasant diversion, one far removed from the hum-drum reality (for them at least) of interstellar space travel.
Some Dungeon Masters and players might find it enter- taining to suddenly shift gears and play other characters briefly when roleplaying the VR adventure. To that end, this section provides a short mini-dungeon the players can explore with their temporary virtual avatars. This presents an excellent opportunity for a player to take on a character class they don’t normally play or use powers their “real” character lacks.
This small dungeon (see map 4) can also be used out- side of the context of the Expedition to the Barrier Peaks. Its brevity and lack of external connections to a large world make it ideal for dropping into an existing cam- paign as a side adventure or an ancient ruin discovered by an adventuring party while traveling through the wilder- ness. Some modifications will be necessary to reduce the “video game” elements incorporated into the dungeon, however.
DM Note: All treasure found in this adventure is virtual and does not accompany the party back into the “ world” once the VR program is over. Any XP earned during the adventure, however, is retained by the charac- ter and added to their total earned experience. It might have been a simulation, but the artificial environment is so nearly real that one learns from their experiences within it. However, the adventure only awards XP once regardless of how many times a character uses a VR pod.
“real
Any character reduced to 0 hit points makes death saves as normal and can be restored to health by the usual means. If a character “dies” in the VR simulation, their vision goes black and green glowing alien characters suddenly appear before their eyes. These letters, if com- prehensible, read—you guessed it—“Game Over.” The
character awakens inside the VR pod and cannot rejoin the game until it is completed. If the character is the only one “dead” in the video game, the DM may wish to have him or her play some of the monsters to keep them in- volved in the game session. See the sidebar near area 5 for details on if all the virtual characters perish in the game.
e ® SPELLS iff VIRTUAL REALITY
Entering the virtual environment of the game is a mental journey, one that envelops the senses and some of the higher brain functions in an intense experience. Any spell that requires concentration is ended once the game begins.
In addition, a character in the virtual environment gains no benefits from spells that affect their physical body or provide it with protection. A wizard under the effects of a mage armor spell, for example, would not enjoy its benefits in the virtual environment of the game, since it protects their natural body. Magic that doesn’t require concentration and provides a mental effect such as comprehend languages, for example, contin- ues to benefit the targeted creature even in the futur- istic game environment.
AREA 1 - START AREA
You find yourself abruptly standing in the center of a crumbling room, ancient with age and laden nith dust and cobwebs. Burning brands rest in sconces along the walls, their flames green and evil. Three doors are visible: one directly before you and two to either side. Hairless rats scurry off at your arrival and a stray bat flaps about, then vanishes.
The entrance area is where the characters’ virtual avatars manifest at the start of the game. After a few moments of getting their bearings and examining their new forms, a voice speaks out accompanied by dramatic music. The voice speaks in Alien Common, and active translation
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ie MAP 4 Against the
oe Gerreslly!
Locked Door
ZS”!
h~ Pendulum Blade
Secret Compartment Sarcophagus Shallow Water
er
Altar on Dais
Pillar Gong
@ Chest FI Throne
magic (but not technology, as the characters have no ac- cess to their “real world” skills and possessions while in the video game) is required to understand it.
“Brave heroes: Yeur quest has brought you far to the undercrypt of the Venomous Warlord. That foul villain has kidnapped the royal heir Morgan and threatens to end their life unless the goodly poten- tate of Paradise, the Planet of Peace, abdicates in the Warlord’s favor. The horrors that scoundrel would visit upon the People of Paradise would be unimaginable, And so it is up to_you to rescue Morgan and defeat the Venomous Warlord. Paradise is counting on you. Good luck!”
The north door is locked and cannot be opened with magic or by physical means. Only the glowing green key (see areas 2 and 3) unlocks it.
Developments. As soon as the spoken prologue ends, six wrocs (stats as ores) appear in the chamber, manifest-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ing like ghosts from out of nothingness. They attack!
Wrocs are a legendary evil race of myth from the world of the spaceship’s origin. They appear as hulking man- shaped creatures with shaggy green fur covering their bodies. Their eyes are atop eyestalks that extend from the top of their heads up to 2 feet. They speak a clicking language formed by the serrated mandibles that protrude from their mouths.
When awrocis slain, it disappears in a cloud of pixels, its death accompanied by a 100-w00-w00-wo0-wo0-wo00 BLEEK BLEK noise. If a character approaches the north door with the glow- ing green key made whole, a lock appears in the middle of the door. Inserting the key causes the door to open and both the keyhole and key to vanish.
AREA 2 —- PENDULUM BLADES
A chamber with a 20-foot-high ceiling and little adornment waits at the end of a short corridor. A raised dais is visible at the far end of the chamber, an ironbound chest surrounded in a nimbus of blue light resting atop it. Between the door and the dais, a half- dozen pendulums swing back and forth across the room, each tipped with a vicious blade capable of cutting a person in half!
Dodging past a pendulum requires a successful DC 11 Dexterity check. A failure means the character is cut by a blade and suffers 5 (1d10) slashing damage while making it past the blade. Six checks must be made to cross the room.
A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check de- tects a concealed panel in the southern wall. In true video game fashion, on a successful check, the panel begins to glow orange making it noticeable to all. Opening the pan- el reveals six counterweights on chains and a successful DC 13 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools disarms the trap. An unsuccessful attempt to disarm the trap causes the pendulums to swing faster, increasing the DC of the Dexterity check to avoid them to 13.
Attacking the pendulums has no effect. (They aren’t pro- grammed to be damaged by in-game effects. Lazy pro- grammers!)
Treasure. The unlocked chest contains a mound of 1,000 gp. Atop the pile is the front half of a glowing green key. This half-key measures 6 inches in length and is surrounded by an emerald aura. When fitted with the other half of the key (see area 3), the two parts become whole and it can be used to unlock the north door in area 1.
AREA 3 - RAINING SKELETONS
Ai sheen of water covers the floor of this chamber. Nine 5-foot- square pedestals spaced evenly apart rise 2 inches above the surface of the water. A few stray bones are visible atop the low pedestals or protruding from the water..A sarcophagus rests upright against the far wall of the room. Six holes, each 5 feet on a side, are visible in the ceiling overhead.
The water is only 6 inches deep. A closer inspection of the sarcophagus reveals six small faceted depressions set into its lid, each resembling a cut gemstone. The coffin is locked and cannot be opened except with the proper gemstone keys.
Development. A few moments after the door to this room opens, the rattling of bones is heard overhead and six skeletons fall from the holes in the ceiling, splash- ing down into the room (they suffer no damage). Each of the skeletons has a red gemstone set into its bony forehead. They attack all present with shortswords and shortbows. Every two rounds (round 3, round 5, round 7, etc.) after the first skeletons arrive, 1d3 additional skeletons appear, falling down from the shafts above. Eac! the originals and bears a red gemstone in its forehead.
is identical to
A gemstone can be pried from the skull of a defeated skeleton with a pointed weapon or tool as an action. In- serting six gemstones in the sarcophagus lid opens the coffin and stops additional skeletons from falling into the room. Any skeletons already present in the chamber re- main and continue to fight until destroyed.
Treasure. The sarcophagus contains a platinum coffer worth 500 gp. Inside it are 20 1,000 gp gems and the rear half of a glowing green key. This half-key measures 6 inches in length and is surrounded by an emerald aura. When fitted with the other half of the key (see area 2), the two parts become whole and it can be used to unlock the north door in area 1.
AREA 4-— THE ACCURSED CHAPEL
An altar adorned with bones and splattered with blood stands atop a dais near the center of the room. Brazters surrounding it burn with Jambent green fire, throwing eerie shadows about the chamber. A bal- cony runs along the perimeter of the room, supported by stout columns carved with blasphemous imagery. A tremendous brazen gong, tinged green with verdigris, stands behind the altar.
The balcony is 15 feet overhead. It is decorative, bears no exits or other items of note, and climbing up to it requires a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check.
Striking the gong produces a loud crash and the altar de- scends through the floor, providing access to the Venomous Warlord’s throne room (area 5) below.
Development. After all the PCs enter this area, a giggling, howling sound erupts through the room and two void spir- its (stats as wights but with a fly speed of 60 feet [hover] and no longbow attack) appear on the balcony. These crea- tures look like shadows filled with myriad ice-cold glittering fragments resembling a star field. They attack the most for- midable-looking melee fighters among the party first, then move on to weaker-appearing characters.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
7;
If the gong is struck, the altar descends at a rate of 5 feet per round, reaching the bottom of the 10-foot-square shaft after 4 rounds. Striking the gong and activating the altar has no effect on the void spirits who continue to at- tack until destroyed. The spirits will pursue the party to area 5 if not dealt with before entering that area.
Treasure. A pair of golden candlesticks, blood-splat- tered though they might be, rest atop the altar. They are worth 500 gp each.
AREA 5- THRONE ROOM
Eerie purple-green flames burn in cressets set along the walls of this high-ceilinged chamber. Five 15-foot-high daises are situated around the room, winding staircases of stone running up to their tops. A throne of blackened iron rests atop the farthest dais. A cringing figure in ragged finery lies huddled at the base of the throne. An imposing figure dressed in green chain mail and wear- ing a helmet that resembles the head of a terrible serpent looms over the prone victim. The helmed figure laughs mockingly, throwing its head back in malignant glee.
i
SA:
f
a R ay201 This area contains the Venomous Warlord (see appen- dix B), the boss fight of the game. The prostrate figure
is the royal heir, Morgan (choose or randomly determine the heir’s gender), the freeing of whom is the party’s goal.
If the Venomous Warlord notices the party, which it au- tomatically does unless they’re being stealthy, it turns to face them and unleashes a classic villainous monologue:
“Fools! You think you can defeat the poisonous majesty of the Venomous Warlord and rescue the royal heir? Better heroes than jou have tried and their bones are now my playthings! Only death awaits the lucky who choose to face me. The unfortunate will lan- guish for centuries in my Toxtc Dungeon, every day an eternity of torment! Go now, and tell the King of Paradise to prepare his world for my usurpation!”
This is a cut scene and the PCs cannot interrupt regard- less of how much they want to skip it. Once the mono- logue ends, the Venomous Warlord draws its blade and the battle commences. Jaunty fight music fills the air from an unseen source.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS >
The Venomous Warlord uses its Spawn Servants action to summon reinforcements and its Pixelated Step trait to teleport from dais to dais, trying to keep the party out of reach for as long as possible. It attacks with its Poison Blast action at range whenever it can, taunting the PCs when it can’t. The spawned servants are summoned poi- son imps which have the stats of goblins, but resemble diminutive versions of the Venomous Warlord.
The high daises can be climbed by either rushing up the steps or with a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.
Morgan is chained to the throne by a green manacle that drips venom. Anyone attempting to pick the lock, which requires a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools, must also succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or take 4 (1d8) poison damage from the toxin. The chain itself has AC 19, 10 hit points, and immunity to poi- son and psychic damage. The manacles can be broken physically with a DC 20 Strength check, but the creature breaking them must make a Constitution saving throw as above or suffer poison damage.
e ® TPK?
If all the video game characters die in the final battle, their controlling players experience a cut scene show- ing the Venomous Warlord laughing over their pros- trate bodies followed by a scene of a peaceful world drifting in space that suddenly falls under attack by a number of massive space battleships. As fires and destruction lay waste to the world, the screen goes black and mournful music plays. “Game Over” ap- pears written on the black field in glowing green alien characters.
If the players wish, they can replay the adventure be- ginning in area 1. However, no experience points are awarded for creatures they’ve already defeated.
e —_————————_-®
Developments. Any time a virtual creature is reduced to 0 hit points, the creature slaying them is healed 1d4 hit points as a glowing heart rises from the corpse and is absorbed by the victor.
Freeing Morgan or defeating the Venomous Warlord ends the battle. The Venomous Warlord collapses in a heap accompanied by triumphant music. If Morgan is
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
not yet freed, the manacles open and the heir rises, his or her dignity restored. Morgan thanks the players and is about to reward them when suddenly the entire chamber fragments as the VR program glitches. The party finds themselves standing in a vast blue, featureless field with only wire-frame geometric patterns hanging overhead and streams of alien characters scrolling past. Sound stutters and old conversations the characters or the vir- tual enemies had are repeated.
Each character experiencing this strange environment can make a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. This roll is made by the “real” character, not their VR avatar. If the roll succeeds, the character gains some deep insight into the alien world of computer programming. While this does not allow them to actually write code or fully understand the proper functioning of computer systems, it gives them some unconscious comprehension of such matters.
This comprehension manifests in two ways. First, the character has advantage on all Intelligence checks made to operate the pacifier robot computer in area 1 of Level VIL. Secondly, when the character is experimenting with the computer central terminal in area 28 of Level I, the DM should roll on the table twice and take the best re- sult. In this case, best means the result less harmful to the party or most advantageous to their explorations of the spaceship. Alternately, the DM can tell the player the two results and have them pick the one they desire.
After the glitch screen runs for a few moments, the game ends and the party comes back to their normal senses inside the VR pods. The game, however, is permanently frozen and cannot be replayed.
APPENDIX B
New Monsters
ANDROID
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 10(40) 12(+1) 9(-1) Saving Throws: Wis +3, Cha +1 Skills: Perception +3
Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the android suffers lightning dam- age it may suffer a short circuit that renders it inca- pacitated. The chance the android short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the android takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuiting. A short-circuited android remains in- capacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The android possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The android has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Water Susceptibility: If the android is immersed in water it automatically short-circuits after 3 rounds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The android makes two punch attacks.
Punch: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
A comely-looking human of either gender dressed in a long shim- mering silver tunic or a set of one-piece coveralls of a similar ma- terial. Hair color and complexions run the gamut of all human varieties. These artificial life-forms generally act identical to human beings, albeit with slightly more reserved personalities when operat-
ing properly.
AURUMVORAX
Small beast, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 112 (15d6 + 60) Speed: 30 ft., burrow 10 ft. STR DEX CON INT 18 (+4) 1241) 18(+4) 4 (-3) Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances: bludgeoning damage from non- magical attacks
WIS CHA 12(+1) 6(-2)
Damage Immunities: fire, poison Condition Immunities: poisoned Senses: passive Perception 14 Languages: —
Challenge: 7 (2,900 XP)
Ambusher: In the first round of a combat, the aurum- vorax has advantage on attack rolls against any crea- ture it has surprised.
Dense: The aurumvorax is incredibly dense, weighing over 500 pounds despite its small size. It takes no dam- age from needlers and fragmentation grenades (see ap- pendix C for both) only stun it for 1d3 rounds if it fails a DC 15 Constitution saving throw.
Keen Smell: The aurumvorax has advantage on Wis- dom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Pounce: If the aurumvorax moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a bite
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the aurumvorax can make four claw attacks against it as a bonus action.
ACTIONS
BABOONOID
Medium humanoid (baboonoid), lawful neutral
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 38 (7d8 + 7) Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
Multiattack: The aurumvorax makes five attacks: one with its bite and four with its claws.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the tar- get is grappled by the aurumvorax’s jaws (escape DC 16). While grappled, the target automatically takes 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage at the start of each of the aurumvorax’s turns.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage.
This creature is the size of a large badger and has a temperament to match. Six claw-tipped legs protrude from its densely-muscled body. It is covered in tawny brown fur and has glittering yellow eyes. A short dog-like muzgle filled with sharp teeth snarls menacingh.
STR DEX CON INT 10(+0) 14(+2) 13(+1) 6(-2)
WIS CHA 12(41) 8(-1)
Senses: passive Perception 11 Languages: Baboonoid Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Pack Tactics: The baboonoid has advantage on an at- tack roll against a creature if at least one of the ba- boonoid’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.
ACTIONS
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) piercing damage.
Rock: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 10/30 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Thrown Pheromone Globe: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 10/30 ft., one target. Hit: The target and all others within 5 feet of it must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is splattered with a pungent liquid that produces an entic- ing aroma. The creature must then succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned due to the pungent stench. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success.
Until the pheromone liquid is cleaned off, any preda- tor or hostile monster within 50 feet of the target will be attracted to their presence, attacking the splattered creature before all others. The pheromone liquid can be washed off with alcohol; otherwise it persists for 2 hours or until the creature takes a short rest to scrub the substance off.
This creature appears to belong to the ape family, but its features are closer to humanity than animal. Standing 5 feet tall and cov- ered with a coat of dark hair, the creature has long arms and legs, making it adept at moving through the trees and bushes. Its hoots and howls have a pattern that suggests a primitive form of speech.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
BOXING PHYSICAL TRAINING ANDROID
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 19(+4) 18(+4) 16 (+3) 10(+0) 1241) 9(-1)
Saving Throws: Wis +4, Cha +2
Skills: Athletics +7, Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire
Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the android suffers lightning dam- age it may suffer a short circuit that renders it inca- pacitated. The chance the android short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the android takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuiting. A short-circuited android remains in- capacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The android possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The android has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Water Susceptibility: If the android is immersed in water it automatically short-circuits after 3 rounds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The android makes two unarmed strikes or two wrestling hold attacks.
Unarmed Strike: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) bludgeon- ing damage. If the target is a creature, the android can
choose one of the following additional effects:
+ The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity sav- ing throw or be knocked prone.
¢ The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the an- droid’s next turn.
Wrestling Hold: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16). Un- til this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the android can’t use its wrestling hold attack on another target. If the target is a creature, the android can choose one of the following additional effects:
* The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be deafened as the android ruptures their eardrums. The deafness can be cured with a lesser restoration spell.
+ The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity sav- ing throw or be blinded as the android gouges their eyes. The blindness can be cured with a /esser res- toration spell.
* The android can make a bite attack as a bonus ac- tion.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage.
A hulking human male with exquisite musculature dressed in a
strange single-piece garment of dark, stretchy fabric. A soft, open-
faced helm covers his head and high soft boots nith stiff soles dress his feet. His hands are covered by thick leather gauntlets.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
DEATH-DRINKER
Large monstrosity, chaotic evil
AC: 20 (natural armor) Hit Points: 127 (15d10 + 45) Speed: 40 ft., climb 20 ft.
WIS CHA 14 (+2) 6(-2)
STR DEX CON _ INT 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 16(4+3) 9(-1)
Saving Throws: Wis +6, Cha +2 Skills: Stealth +7
Damage Resistances: cold, fire; bludgeoning, pierc- ing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities: exhaustion, frightened Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: —
Challenge: 11 (7,200 XP)
Ambusher: In the first round of a combat, the death- drinker has advantage on attack rolls against any crea- ture it has surprised.
Chameleon Camouflage: The death-drinker has ad- vantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain while it remains motionless. It can take a Hide action even when not obscured from sight. Fearful Strike: The death-drinker inflicts an addition- al damage die for its attack when it successfully strikes a frightened creature. Surprise Attack: If the death-drinker surprises a crea- ture and hits it with an attack during the first round of combat, the target takes an extra 16 (3d10) damage from the attack.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The death-drinker makes five attacks: four with its claws and one with its bite.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage.
Frightful Presence: Each creature of the death-drink- er’s choice that is within 60 feet of the death-drinker and aware of it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom sav- ing throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A crea-
ture can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the death-drinker’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours.
Tail: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage, and the tar- get must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. The death-drinker can immedi- ately make a claw attack against a prone target if within reach as a bonus action.
The death-drinker is a stark white humanoid thing covered in sharply angled plates, swept-back. spikes, and jutting teeth from an underslung jaw. Larger than a man, the creature possesses six Limbs: two insectile legs and four arms, two of which protrude from the creature’ upper back. and end in blade-like talons. A pair of barbed tails trail behind the creature. When hunting, the white plates covering the creature change color to match its surroundings, making it difficult to spot while it remains motionless.
DINING SERVO ROBOT
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 19 (natural armor) Hit Points: 102 (12d8 + 48) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 19 (+4) 14 (+2) 18 (+4) 10(40) 10(+0) 6(-2)
Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 7 (2,900 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the robot suffers lightning damage it may suffer a short circuit that renders it incapaci- tated. The chance the robot short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the robot takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuit- ing. A short-circuited robot remains incapacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The robot possesses a built-in
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Robotic Nature: Whenever the robot starts its turn with 20 hit points or fewer, it must make a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw. Failure indicates the robot has short-circuited and will be incapacitated until repaired.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The robot makes two pincher attacks or two tentacle attacks.
Pincher: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14) if it is a Medium or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the robot can’t use the same pincher on another target. The robot has two pinchers.
Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one grappled target. Hit: The target is force-fed spore- infested foodstuffs and must make a DC 20 Intelligence saving throw. Ona failed save, the food causes insanity at the start of the target’s next turn as the blue-green spores attack the brain. This insanity is identical to that caused by the symbol spell and lasts for 1 minute. At the end of that time, the creature must make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or suffer 44 (8d10) necrotic damage as the spores attack its brain, taking only half damage on a successful save. The spores then run their course and no longer affect the eater. The insanity and poisoning are curable with either a /esser restoration spell or any technological source that treats poison or disease. A purify food and drink spell will have no ef- fect.
A metallic, human-sized, cylindrical creature moves quietly about, propelled by appendages hidden beneath a flared metal skirt at its base. A pair of arms, each tipped with a pinching dan, sprout from its body above a pair of tentacles. Glowing glass plates peer from the front of its metal body. The creature is decorated in flak- ing black. and white paint and a limp, tattered piece of cloth is wrapped around its upper body and tied in a bom
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED
DWARF PHASE SPIDER
Medium monstrosity, unaligned
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 27 (5d8 + 5) Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
WIS CHA 10 (+0) 3(-4)
STR DEX CON INT 14 (+2) 15 (42) 121) 6(-2)
Skills: Stealth +6
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: —
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
Ethereal Jaunt: As a bonus action, the spider can magically shift from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa.
Spider Climb: The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Web Walker: The spider ignores movement restric- tions caused by webbing.
ACTIONS
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage, and the tar- get must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, tak- ing 18 (4d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the poison dam- age reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned in this way.
An arachnoid the size of a large dog, this eight-legged creature has a blue back and head and a creamy white body. Its legs darken Srom blue to nearly black at the tips. Massive fangs protrude from its head, which is crowned with a number of alien-looking eyes that send shivers down the spine.
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
FENCING PHYSICAL TRAI ANDROID
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 16(+3) 10(+0) 12(41) 9(-1) Saving Throws: Wis +4, Cha +2 Skills: Athletics +6, Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire
Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the android suffers lightning dam- age it may suffer a short circuit that renders it inca- pacitated. The chance the android short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the android takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuiting. A short-circuited android remains in- capacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The android possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The android has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Lightfooted: The android can take the Dash or Disen- gage action as a bonus action on each of its turns.
Water Susceptibility: If the android is immersed in water it automatically short-circuits after 3 rounds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The android makes three electrical epee attacks.
Electrical Epee: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 tohit, reach
5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage and 4 (1d8) lightning damage. Miss: If the target is wearing metal armor, it takes 4 (1d8) lightning damage. Punch: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
REACTIONS
Parry: The android adds 2 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the android must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
A tall, lithe-looking human male wearing a tight-fitting garment covering his torso and leaving his well-muscled legs exposed. A styl- ized red heart is painted on the garment's breast and the figure’s face is obscured by a mesh-covered helm. A long but thin sword is held in his hand, ready for use
FLAIL SNAIL
Large elemental, unaligned
AC: 16 (natural armor) Hit Points: 52 (5d10 + 25) Speed: 10 ft.
WIS CHA 10(+0) 5(-3)
STR DEX CON _ INT 17 (+3) 5(-3) 20(+5) 3(-4)
Damage Immunities: fire, poison
Condition Immunities: poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages: —
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Antimagic Shell: The snail has advantage on saving throws against spells, and any creature making a spell attack against the snail has disadvantage on the attack roll. If the snail succeeds on its saving throw against a spell or a spell attack misses it, an additional effect might occur, as determined by rolling a d6:
1-2: If the spell affects an area or has multiple targets, it fails and has no effect. If the spell targets only the snail, it has no effect on the snail and is reflected back at the caster, using the spell slot level, spell save DC, attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster.
3-4: No additional effect. 5-6: The snail’s shell converts some of the spell’s en-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ergy into a burst of destructive force. Each creature within 30 feet of the snail must make a DC 15 Consti- tution saving throw, taking 1d6 force damage per level of the spell on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Flail Tentacles: The flail snail has five flail tentacles. Whenever the snail takes 10 damage or more ona single turn, one of its tentacles dies. If even one tentacle re- mains, the snail regrows all dead ones within 1d4 days. If all its tentacles die, the snail retracts into its shell, gaining total cover, and it begins wailing, a sound that can be heard for 600 feet, stopping only when it dies 5d6 minutes later. Healing magic that restores limbs, such as a regenerate spell, can halt this dying process.
ACTIONS
FROGHEMOTH
Huge monstrosity, unaligned
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 184 (16d12 + 80) Speed: 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
WIS CHA 12(+1) 5(-3)
STR DEX CON INT 23 (+6) 13(+1) 20(+5) 2(-4)
Saving Throws: Con +9, Wis +5
Skills: Perception +9, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances: fire, lightning
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 19 Languages: —
Challenge: 10 (5,900 XP)
Multiattack: The flail snail makes as many Flail Ten- tacle attacks as it has flail tentacles, all against the same target.
Flail Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Scintillating Shell (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest): The snail’s shell emits dazzling, colored lig! until the end of the snail’s next turn. During this time, the shell sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light foran additional 30 feet, and creatures that can see the snail have disadvantage on attack rolls against it. In addition, any creature within the bright light and able to see the snail when this power is activated must suc- ceed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned until the light ends. Shell Defense: The flail snail withdraws into its shell, gaininga+4 bonus to AC until it emerges. It can emerge from its shell as a bonus action on its turn.
Ai tremendous snail with five long tentacles protruding from its head and bearing a glittering shell upon its back. Each of its ten- tacles ends is a mace-like knob it uses to strike prey.
Amphibious: The froghemoth can breathe air and wa- ter.
Shock Susceptibility: If the froghemoth takes light- ning damage, it suffers several effects until the end of its next turn: its speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, it can’t use reactions or Multiattack, and on its turn, it can use either an ac- tion or a bonus action, not both.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The froghemoth makes two attacks with its tentacles. It can also use its tongue or bite. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning dam- age, and the target is grappled (escape DC 16) if it is a Huge or smaller creature. Until the grapple ends, the froghemoth can’t use this tentacle on another target. The froghemoth has four tentacles.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6) piercing damage, and the target is swallowed if it is a Medium or smaller creature. A swallowed creature is blinded and restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the froghemoth, and takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the froghemoth’s turns. The froghemoth’s gullet can hold up to two creatures at a time. If the froghemoth takes 20 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the froghemoth must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, each of which falls prone in a space within 10 feet of the froghemoth. If the froghemoth dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone.
Tongue: The froghemoth targets one Medium or small- er creature that it can see within 20 feet of it. The target must make a DC 18 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is pulled into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the froghemoth, and the froghemoth can make a bite attack against it as a bonus action.
The froghemoth’s 18-foot-long, 10-foot-wide body is yellow-orange on the belly, shading to a medium green on its back and thick, bowed rear legs. From its shoulder area sprout four tentacles, two from each shoulder, which are green on top and yellowish under- neath. The creature's nostrils are stalk-like, and its three eyes are housed on a retractable protruding appendage which is withdrann when danger threatens the optics. A long sinuous and sticky tongue Jolls from its massive mouth.
GLOBE PALM
Large plant, unaligned
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 65 (10d10 + 10) Speed: 0 ft.
STR DEX CON _ INT CHA 1(-5) 10(40) 1241) 1(-5) 1 (-5)
WIS 10 (+0)
tion saving throw or become poisoned due to the pun- gent stench. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condi- tion on itself on a success.
Until the pheromone liquid is cleaned off, any preda- tor or hostile monster within 50 feet of the target will be attracted to their presence, attacking the splattered creature before all others. The pheromone liquid can be washed off with alcohol; otherwise it persists for 2 hours or until the creature takes a short rest to scrub the substance off.
REACTIONS
Loose Globe: In response to being physically struck in combat, the globe palm can make one pheromone globe attack against the attacker, if it is within 5 feet of the globe palm. This reaction occurs even if the plant has not recharged its pheromone globe attack.
A slender tree exceeding 20 feet in height and bearing spear-point shaped leaves grows from the ground. Its bole is covered with spi- raled, overlapping dark brown bark, and a cluster of leathery round fruit blooms from its top.
GREATER SLITHERING TRACKER Medium ooze, chaotic evil
AC: 14
Hit Points: 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: —
Challenge: 1/8 (25 XP)
False Appearance: While the globe palm remains mo- tionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant. ACTIONS
Pheromone Globe (Recharge 5-6): The globe palm chooses one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. It drops a pheromone globe on that creature and it and all others within 5 feet of it must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is splattered with a pungent liquid that produces an enticing aroma. The creature must then succeed on a DC 11 Constitu-
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 16 (+3) 19 (+4) 16(+3) 1040) 14 (+2) 11 (+0)
Skills: Stealth +8 Damage Vulnerabilities: cold, fire
Damage Resistances: bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, grappled, paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses: blindsight 120 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: understands languages it knew in its pre- vious form but can’t speak
Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP)
Ambusher: In the first round of a combat, the slither-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ing tracker has advantage on attack rolls against any creature it surprised.
Damage Transfer: While grappling a creature, the slithering tracker takes only half the damage dealt to it, and the creature it is grappling takes the other half. False Appearance: While the slithering tracker re- mains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a puddle, unless an observer succeeds on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check.
Keen Tracker: The slithering tracker has advantage on Wisdom checks to track prey.
Liquid Form: The slithering tracker can enter an en- emy’s space and stop there. It can also move through a space as narrow as | inch wide without squeezing. Spider Climb: The slithering tracker can climb diffi- cult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, with- out needing to make an ability check.
Watery Stealth: While underwater, the slithering tracker has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, and it can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
ACTIONS
Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
Life Leech: One Large or smaller creature that the slithering tracker can see within 5 feet of it must suc- ceed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and unable to breathe unless it can breathe water. In addition, the grappled target takes 16 (3d10) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns. The slithering tracker can grapple only one target at a time. A 6-foot-long, transparent length of living liquid slithers across the floor, whipping its tail like a frenzied tadpole. Lacking eyes, mouth, or other facial features, it nevertheless exudes an air of menace as it closes in on its prey.
GRELL BROOD-MOTHER Large aberration, neutral evil
AC: 12
Hit Points: 112 (15d10 + 30)
Speed: 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 18 (+4) 14(42) 14 (+2) 14(42) 11(40) 9(1)
Skills: Perception +3, Stealth +5 Damage Immunities: lightning
Condition Immunities: blinded, prone
Senses: darkvision 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive Perception 13
Languages: Grell Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP)
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The grell makes three attacks: two with its tentacles and one with its beak.
Tentacles: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) piercing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. The poisoned target is paralyzed, and it can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. The target is also grappled (escape DC 17). If the target is Large or smaller, it is also restrained until this grap- ple ends. While grappling the target, the grell has ad- vantage on attack rolls against it. The grell can grapple up to two Large or smaller targets at once. When the grell moves, any Large or smaller target it is grappling moves with it.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit; 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage.
The grell brood-mother is a 20-foot-long, oversized specimen of its species. Its tentacles are scarred from countless battles and its beak bears striated bands of purple and green, the marks of brood- motherhood.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARDATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
HORRID PLANT
Large plant, neutral good
AC: 15 (natural armor) Hit Points: 65 (10d10 + 8) Speed: 5 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 6(-2) 16(+3) 12(41) 14(42) 1241) 4(-3)
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 11 Languages: telepathy 10 ft.
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
False Appearance: While the horrid plant remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant.
ACTIONS
Lashing Tendril: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) slashing dam- age.
Lightning Discharge (Recharge 5-6): The horrid plant discharges a bolt of lightning in a 30-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) light- ning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage ona successful one.
A leprous yellow, nauseating-looking plant comprised of slender tendrils, bloated, gourd-shaped bodies, and fanned scarlet leaves grows here.
KARATE PHYSICAL TRAINING ANDROID
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 10(+0) 12(41) 9(-1)
Saving Throws: Wis +4, Cha +2
Skills: Athletics +6, Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire
Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the android suffers lightning dam- age it may suffer a short circuit that renders it inca- pacitated. The chance the android short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the android takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuiting. A short-circuited android remains in- capacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The android possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The android has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Water Susceptibility: If the android is immersed in water it automatically short-circuits after 3 rounds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The android makes three unarmed strikes.
Unarmed Strike: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d12 + 4) bludgeon- ing damage. If the target is a creature, the android can
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
choose one of the following additional effects:
* The target must succeed on a DC 14 Strength sav- ing throw or drop one item it is holding (android’s choice).
* The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity sav- ing throw or be knocked prone.
* The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The target can attempt the Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
REACTIONS
Deflect Missile: In response to being hit by a ranged weapon attack, the android deflects the missile. The damage it takes from the attack is reduced by 1d10+ 4. If the damage is reduced to 0, the android catches the missile if it’s small enough to hold in one hand and the android has a hand free.
An agile human male of slight build dressed in a curious one- piece garment with attached hood. Wrappings encircle his wrists and parts of his palms, and high soft boots cover his feet. The figure lacks weapons but moves with a grace that suggests he can react quickly to any threat.
LEECHOID
Medium beast, unaligned
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 32 (5d8 + 10) Speed: 10 ft., climb 5 ft., swim 20 ft.
STR DEX CON INT 8(-1) 15 (+2) 14(4+2) 1(-5)
Skills: Stealth +4 Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 8
WIS 7 (-2)
CHA 1 (-5)
Languages: — Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP)
Amphibious: The leechoid can breathe air and water. Salt Vulnerability: A handful of salt does 3 (1d6) acid damage to the leechoid and forces it to use an action to end its grapple on a target at the start of the leechoid’s next turn.
ACTIONS
Blood Drain: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 12). While grappled, the leechoid doesn’t attack this target. Instead, at the start of each of the leechoid’s turns, the target takes 4 (1d4 + 2) necrotic damage due to blood loss. Hallucinogenic Toxin: A creature that begins its turn grappled by the leechoid must make a DC 12 Consti- tution saving throw or go into a hallucinatory state. While hallucinating, the target is unconscious. The hallucinating creature can attempt a new Constitution saving throw at the start of its turn to end the state. The creature has advantage on its saving throw if the leechoid is no longer grappling the target.
Ai man-sized leech lurches through the muck. Its slimy body is mottled gray and brown. A single eye peers from the center of its head, while a pair of fleshy antennae twitch grotesquely from the top of its neck.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LIVING BURROW
Huge monstrosity, unaligned
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 95 (10d12 + 30) Speed: 10 ft., burrow 20 ft.
WIS CHA 1341) 4(-3)
STR DEX CON _ INT 20 (+5) 11 (+0) 16(+3) 3(-4)
Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +3 Damage Resistances: cold, fire, lightning
Damage Immunities: bludgeoning from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities: blinded, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages: — Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP)
Ambusher: In the first round of a combat, the living burrow has advantage on attack rolls against any crea- ture it has surprised.
False Appearance: While the living burrow is motion- less and in an outdoor environment, it is almost indis- tinguishable from an ordinary animal burrow. A crea- ture that sees it and succeeds on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Nature) check can discern its presence.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The living burrow makes three attacks with its tentacles.
Tentacles: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15). If the target is Huge or smaller, it is also restrained until this grap- ple ends. While grappling the target, the living burrow has advantage on attack rolls against it and can’t use this tentacle against other targets. The living burrow has six tentacles.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be swallowed by the living burrow. A swallowed creature is blinded
and restrained, has total cover against attacks and other effects originating outside the living burrow, and takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the start of each of the living burrow’s turns.
If the living burrow takes 10 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the living burrow must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed crea- tures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the living burrow. If the living burrow dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone.
A giant-sized flat creature with a gaping mouth in the center of its circular body and six: long tentacles extending equidistant around its circumference, few see the living mound in its true form. The creature buries itself mostly under the ground, obscuring its body with earth and turf to better mimic an animal’ den. It moves about on hundreds of fleshy cilia like an oversized millipede.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LIZARDOID
Medium beast, unaligned
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 71 (11d8 + 22) Speed: 40 ft.
WIS CHA 10(+0) 6 (-2)
STR DEX CON_ INT 16 (+3) 15(+2) 14 (42) 4 (-3)
Skills: Perception +2, Stealth +4 Senses: passive Perception 12 Languages: —
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Jungle Camouflage: The lizardoid has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in jungle or overgrown terrain.
Pounce: If the lizardoid moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the lizardoid can make one bite attack against it as a bonus action.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The lizardoid makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) piercing damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage.
A 6-foot-tall bipedal reptile stalks about on three-toed feet. A Hleshy crest extends behind its head, flaring out to three points. Its gray-green body is covered with stripes of yellow, black, and brown, helping it hide in the surrounding vegetation. Rows of tiny, yet sharp teeth are visible within its open, drool-dripping mouth.
MUTANT TWO-HEADED UMBER HULK
Large monstrosity, chaotic evil
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 119 (14d10 + 42)
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 20 (+5) 13 (+1) 16 (+3) 10(+0) 12(+1) 10(+0)
Skills: Perception +4 Senses: darkvision 120 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages: Umber Hulk Challenge: 6 (2,300 XP)
Confusing Gaze: When a creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the umber hulk and is able to see the umber hulk’s eyes, the umber hulk can magically force it to make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw, unless the um- ber hulk is incapacitated.
On a failed saving throw, the creature can’t take reac- tions until the start of its next turn and rolls a d8 to determine what it does during that turn. On a 1 to 4, the creature does nothing. Ona 5 or 6, the creature takes no action but uses all its movement to move in a random direction. On a7 or 8, the creature makes one melee at- tack against a random creature, or it does nothing if no creature is within reach. A creature cannot be affected by both its Confusing Gaze and its Scintillating Gaze during the same round.
Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see the umber hulk until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the crea- ture looks at the umber hulk in the meantime, it must immediately make the save.
Scintillating Gaze: The umber hulk can magically force a single creature within 30 feet that it can see and who is able to see the umber hulk’s eyes to make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw, unless the umber hulk is incapacitated.
On a failed saving throw, the creature is charmed and the umber hulk can compel it to either become inca- pacitated or to use up to all its movement to attempt to enter an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the umber hulk. The umber hulk can choose a different compelled
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
action at the start of the creature’s turn as long as it remains charmed. The creature can make a Charisma saving throw at the end of its turn to end the charmed condition. It also ends if the umber hulk physically attacks the creature. A creature cannot be affected by both its Confusing Gaze and its Scintillating Gaze dur- ing the same round.
Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so, it can’t see the umber hulk until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the crea- ture looks at the umber hulk in the meantime, it must immediately make the save.
Tunneler: The umber hulk can burrow through solid rock at half its burrowing speed and leaves a 5-foot- wide, 8-foot-high tunnel in its wake.
Two Heads: The umber hulk has advantage on Wis- dom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.
Wakeful: When one of the umber hulk’s heads is asleep, its other head is awake.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The umber hulk makes four attacks: two with its claws and two with its mandibles.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) slashing damage.
Mandibles: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage.
This mutated specimen of umber hulk kind is identical to the nor- mal variety except for the presence of a second head perched atop its broad plated shoulders. The eyes of the second head are faceted like that of a fiy and are comprised of a variety of iridescent rainbow colors. The gaze of these scintillating eyes has a weird effect on liv- ing creatures.
PACIFIER ROBOT
Large construct, unaligned
AC: 20 (natural armor) Hit Points: 157 (15d10 + 75) Speed: 0 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 24 (+7) 20 (+5) 20 (+5) 10(+0) 13(41) 4(-3)
Skills: Nature +4, Perception +5 Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone
Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages: understands Alien Common but can’t speak
Challenge: 11 (7,200 XP)
Force Shield: The robot can enact a defensive shield about it that grants it 40 temporary hit points. The shield regenerates | hit point at the start of each of the robot’s turns. Once the robot loses these 40 temporary hit points, the shield fails and cannot be raised again until the robot completes a long rest. While the force shield is active, the robot can withstand the vacuum of space and water pressure up to 500 feet depth. The robot can attack from within the force shield without penalty.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The robot has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight. Robotic Nature: Whenever the robot starts its turn with 10 hit points or fewer, it must make a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw. Failure indicates the robot has short-circuited and will be incapacitated until repaired.
Tracking Sight: The robot has a laser sight array and tracking computer that allows it to mark hostile targets for increased accuracy. It can mark up to three targets it can see within 300 feet. The robot gains advantage on attack rolls against marked targets. The tracking array can be attacked separately from the robot if the force shield is no longer functioning. The array has AC 15, 30 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Every 10 points of damage done to the array
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REI{MCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
destroys one laser sight and prevents it from tracking one target.
Tractor/Repulsion Beam: As a bonus action, the ro- bot produces a force beam capable of pushing or pull- ing one Huge or smaller creature or object weighing 300 pounds or less. The beam has a 60-foot range.
If the target is a creature, the robot must make a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score; on a success it can move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward, but not beyond the beam’s range. If the target is a loose object, it is moved automatically 30 feet in any direc- tion, including upwards. If the target is an object be- ing carried or held by a living creature, the robot must succeed on a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score in order to move it; a failure indicates the creature retains its hold of the object and it does not move.
(+9 to hit) one of four types of grenades (range 100/300 ft.). Ithas six sleep gas, four poison gas, six incendiary, and 10 fragmentation grenades in its internal magazine. See appendix C for the effects of each grenade type. The pacifier robot ts a 10-foot-long, 6-foot-high sleek metal- and ceramic-plated oval bristling with rod-shaped protrusions and float- ing 5 feet off the ground. A shimmering haze surrounds it and a trio of small red beams swirl about it, tracking the movement of nearby creatures.
POLICE ROBOT
Medium construct, lawful neutral
AC: 19 (natural armor) Hit Points: 127 (15d8 + 60) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 20 (+5) 14 (+2) 18 (+4) 10(40) 10(40) 6 (-2)
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The robot makes three tentacle attacks, or two laser rifle battery attacks and one blaster rifle attack. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of the robot’s next turn.
Blaster Rifle: Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range
50/150 ft., one target. Hit: The target suffers one of two
effects (robot’s choice):
* Disruption Beam: The beam vaporizes anything short of hull metal it hits, affecting up to 6 cubic feet of nonliving material. A living creature takes 17 (5d6) force damage and is stunned for 1 minute. The creature can attempt a DC 12 Constitution sav- ing throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the stunned condition on itself on a success.
+ Heat Beam: The target takes 12 (5d4) fire damage and suffers one level of exhaustion.
Laser Rifle Battery: Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to
hit, range 80/240 ft., one target. Hit: 32 (6d8 + 5) radi-
ant damage.
Grenade Launcher (Recharge 5-6): The robot shoots
Skills: Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 9 (5,000 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the robot suffers lightning damage it may suffer a short circuit that renders it incapaci- tated. The chance the robot short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the robot takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuit- ing. A short-circuited robot remains incapacitated until repaired.
Emergency Speed: The robot can increase its speed by up to 60 feet for up to 10 minutes every hour.
Force Shield: The robot can enact a defensive shield about it that grants it 20 temporary hit points. The shield regenerates 1 hit point at the start of each of the robot’s turns. Once the robot loses these 20 temporary hit points, the shield fails and cannot be raised again until the robot completes a long rest. While the force shield is active, the robot can withstand the vacuum of
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
space and water pressure up to a depth of 500 feet. The robot can attack from within the force shield without penalty.
Integral Color Card: The robot possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates orange and red color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The robot has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Language Translator: The robot can decipher any spoken language after 10 minutes of study, allowing it to speak and understand the language fluently after- wards.
Nonlethal Programming: The robot is programmed to subdue perpetrators and always use nonlethal at- tacks initially. Only if the robot comes under violent assault and suffers more than 60 damage will it begin using lethal force. However, there is a 1 in 4 chance an encountered robot has faulty programming and will begin with lethal force in any combat.
Robotic Nature: Whenever the robot starts its turn with 10 hit points or fewer, it must make a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw. Failure indicates the robot has short-circuited and will be incapacitated until repaired.
Tractor/Repulsion Beam: As a bonus action, the ro- bot produces a force beam capable of pushing or pull- ing one Huge or smaller creature or object weighing 300 pounds or less. The beam has a 60-foot range.
If the target is a creature, the robot must make a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score; on a success it can move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward, but not beyond the beam’s range. If the target is a loose object, it is moved automatically 30 feet in any direc- tion, including upwards. If the target is an object be- ing carried or held by a living creature, the robot must succeed on a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score in order to move it; a failure indicates the creature retains its hold of the object and it does not move.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The robot makes two tentacle, pincher, or laser pistol attacks.
Pincher: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 18). If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution sav- ing throw or be stunned until the end of the robot’s next turn. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the robot can’t use the same tentacle on another target. The robot has two tentacles.
Laser Pistol: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 40/120 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) radiant damage. Grenade Launcher (Recharge 5-6): The robot shoots (+6 to hit) one of four types of grenades (range 30/90 ft.). It has three sleep gas, one poison gas, one incendi- ary, and one fragmentation grenade in its internal mag- azine. See appendix C for the effects of each grenade type.
Paralysis Pistol (Recharge 5-6): The pistol fires a ray in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must suc- ceed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target is paralyzed for 1 minute; the target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. On a success, the target is slowed as per the s/ow spell; the target can attempt a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the slowed effect on itself on a success.
A man-sized metal creature with a cylindrical body moves, its feet or other means of propulsion obscured by a flared skirt at its base. Its copper-colored body sports four limbs: a pair of serpen- tine gleaming tentacles, an articulated metal arm ending in a large pincher, and an arm with skeletal-like fingers. Glowing glass plates ring the creature's head and a number of small geometrically shaped protrusions and adornments are visible on its body.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
PURPLE BLOSSOM PLANT Large plant, unaligned
REPAIR ROBOT
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 11 (natural armor) Hit Points: 52 (8d10 + 8) Speed: 5 ft.
AC: 16 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON_ INT 1(-5) 10(+0) 12(+1) 1(-5)
WIS CHA 10 (+0) 1 (-5)
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 16 (43) 10(+0) 10(+0) 6(-2)
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: —
Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP)
False Appearance: While the purple blossom plant re- mains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant.
Skills: Perception +3 Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP)
ACTIONS
Drip Poison Sap: The purple blossom plant chooses one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. The target takes 55 (10d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Ranging from 8 to 13 feetin height, this alien plant has a branch- less, scaled trunk with fern-like foliage at its top. The fronds droop down a short distance towards the ground. Mixed among the fronds are purple, cup-shaped flowers with silvery stamens. .A mat of fine moss grows around the plant’s base.
Electrical Flaw: If the robot suffers lightning damage it may suffer a short circuit that renders it incapaci- tated. The chance the robot short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the robot takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuit- ing. A short-circuited robot remains incapacitated until repaired. Integral Color Card: The robot possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The robot has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Robotic Nature: Whenever the robot starts its turn with 20 hit points or fewer, it must make a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw. Failure indicates the robot has short-circuited and will be incapacitated until repaired.
Self-Defense: If the robot is operating normally it only attacks if attacked first. It uses nonlethal means to de- fend itself whenever possible, preferring to employ its tractor/repulsion beam to render foes incapable of at- tacking it.
Tractor/Repulsion Beam: As a bonus action, the ro- bot produces a force beam capable of pushing or pull- ing one Huge or smaller creature or object weighing
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
300 pounds or less. The beam has a 60-foot range.
If the target is a creature, the robot must make a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score; on a success it can move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward, but not beyond the beam’s range. If the target is a loose object, it is moved automatically 30 feet in any direc- tion, including upwards. If the target is an object be- ing carried or held by a living creature, the robot must succeed on a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score in order to move it; a failure indicates the creature retains its hold of the object and it does not move.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The robot makes two slam attacks.
Slam: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d10 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Ai 5-foot-tall metal creature with a barrel-like body, this artificial form of life moves about on two legs ending in broad, cone-shaped feet. It also has two arms ending in a pair of hands with slender, manipulative fingers..A single glass lens is set into the center of its rounded body at its upper end, just beneath a curious, hemispherical head. A long protrusion extends straight out from its head, giving it a vaguely duck-like appearance.
SHEDU
Large monstrosity, lawful good
AC: 15 (natural armor) Hit Points: 105 (14d10 + 28) Speed: 40 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 18 (+4) 12 (+1) 14(42) 20(45) 16 (+3) 15 (+2)
Senses: passive Perception 13 Languages: Common, Shedu, telepathy 60 ft. Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP)
Innate Spellcasting (Psionics): The shedu’s innate
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15,
+7 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the fol-
lowing spells, requiring no components:
+ At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, detect thoughts, mage hand, plane shift (self only), see in- visibility
+ 3/day each: dimension door, invisibility, levitate, telekinesis
Magic Resistance: The shedu has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The shedu makes two hoof attacks.
Hoof: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6): The shedu magically emits psychic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence sav- ing throw or take 23 (4d8 + 5) psychic damage and be stunned for | minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
This incredible creature has the tan body of a bull and great feath- ery wings the color of freshly-fallen snom. An oversized human head is perched atop the body's short neck, a long, dark, plaited beard dropping from its enlarged chin. Wise, intelligent eyes peer about the creature, taking in all it surveys.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SNAPPER-SAW
Medium plant, unaligned
SQUEALER
Large monstrosity, chaotic evil
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 58 (9d8 + 18) Speed: 5 ft.
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 112 (15d10 + 30) Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR DEX CON 15 (+2) 10 (+0) 14 (+2)
INT CHA 1(-5) 1(-5)
WIS 10 (+0)
STR DEX CON _ INT 20 (+5) 14 (42) 15 (+2) 6 (-2)
WIS CHA 14 (+2) 6(-2)
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: —
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
False Appearance: While the snapper-saw remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant.
ACTIONS
Entrap: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or smaller creature. Hit: The snapper- saw’s ribbed leaves snap shut, grappling the target (es- cape DC 13). While grappled, the creature is restrained, and takes 24 (4d10 + 2) slashing damage at the begin- ning of each of the snapper-saw’s turns as the plant’s saw-like stalks shred their flesh.
A great fern with 6-feot-long broad, ribbed fronds grows here, At the center of the plant is a cluster of delicious-smelling white ber- res.
Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +4
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: —
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Forest Camouflage: The squealer has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in forest ter- rain.
Mimicry: The squealer can mimic the cries and death shrieks of common beasts in distress. It uses these cries to attract predators and then feeds on them. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Insight) check.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The squealer makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) piercing damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack. +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage.
Grab: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: The target is grappled (escape DC 17) and restrained.
Possessing a body the size of a gorilla, this creature is spotted yellow and green in coloration and bears a 2-foot-long head that somewhat resembles a pig’. Its mouth is filled with sword-sharp tusks that jut out like knives. Five arms protrude from its body: four from its shoulders and lower torso, while a fifth grows from its back. Its forearms are longer than its rear limbs, and all its limbs bear sharp talons. Horrible squeals, like an animal in distress, sound from its mouth almost mockingly.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SQUEALER ADOLESCENT
Medium monstrosity, chaotic evil
STRANGLE VINE Large plant, unaligned
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 52 (8d8 + 16) Speed: 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d10 + 20) Speed: 5 ft., climb 5 ft.
STR DEX CON _ INT 15 (+2) 14(42) 14(42) 6(-2)
WIS CHA 12(+1) 6 (-2)
STR DEX CON INT 1743) 10(+0) 15(+2) 1(-5)
WIS CHA 10(+0) 1(-5)
Skills: Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: —
Challenge: | (200 XP)
Forest Camouflage: The squealer has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in forest ter- rain.
Mimicry: The squealer can mimic the cries and death shrieks of common beasts in distress. It uses these cries to attract predators and then feeds on them. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Insight) check.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The squealer makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Grab: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: The target is grappled (escape DC 14) and restrained.
This creature is identical to its parent, but is only 4 feet in length.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED
Damage Resistances: fire
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: — Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
False Appearance: While the strangle vine remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant. Lightning Speed Surge: The strangle vine’s speed is doubled on its next turn anytime it takes lightning dam- age. Its speed is never increased by more than 100% regardless of how many times it takes lightning dam- age in a single round.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The strangle vine makes one constrict at- tack on all creatures within reach of the main vine. Constrict: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning dam- age, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage at the start of each of its turns.
Ai cluster of green vines lacking leaves or blossoms, these tendrils are smooth and sinuous. They slither and creep across the ground like a mixture of serpent and worm, seeking prey.
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
STUNTED EYE OF THE DEEP
Medium aberration, neutral evil
AC: 17 (natural armor) Hit Points: 78 (12d8 + 24) Speed: 0 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 12 (+1) 14(4+2) 14(4+2) 16 (43) 14(42) 12 (41) Saving Throws: Int +6, Wis +5, Cha +4 Skills: Perception +5
Senses: passive Perception 15 Languages: Alien Common, Deep Speech Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP)
Water Breathing: The stunted eye of the deep can breathe only water.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The stunted eye of the deep makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d10 + 1) piercing damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d6 + 1) slashing damage, and if the tar- get is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 11). A grappled creature is restrained, and if subjected to a bite attack, that attack is at advantage. The stunted eye of the deep can grapple two creatures at a time. Stunning Eye Beam (Recharge 5-6): The stunted eye of the deep emits a beam of blinding light from its cen- tral eye in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in the area of effect must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or become blinded from 1d4 turns and stunned for 1d4 turns. Hold Person Eye Beam (Recharge 6): The stunted eye of the deep emits a beam of light from one of its smaller eyes, targeting up to two humanoid creatures ina 15-foot cone. Each target must make a DC 14 Wis- dom saving throw or become paralyzed for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns it can attempt another saving throw to end the effect on itself.
Hold Monster Eye Beam (Recharge 6): The stunted eye of the deep emits a beam of light from one of its smaller eyes, targeting up to two creatures (any type)
in a 15-foot cone. Each target must make a DC 14 Wis- dom saving throw or become paralyzed for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns it can attempt another saving throw to end the effect on itself. Illusory Eyes (Recharge 5-6): The stunted eye of the deep uses both small eyes to cast major image (save DC 14).
A spherical monstrosity covered with overlapping plates like a crus- tacean, this creature has a large eye in the center of its body and a pair of smaller ones at the ends of eyestalks protruding from atop its rounded form. Large claws like those of a huge lobster extend from its body. Its tooth-filled maw moves silently as if anticipating a feast.
SWARM OF ROT GRUBS Medium swarm of Tiny beasts, unaligned AC: 8
Hit Points: 22 (5d8)
Speed: 5 ft., climb 5 ft.
WIS 2(-4)
CHA 1 (-5)
STR DEX CON _ INT 2(-4) 7(-2) 10(4+0) 1(-5)
Damage Resistances: piercing, slashing
Condition Immunities: charmed, frightened, grap- pled, paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Senses: blindsight 10 ft., passive Perception 6 Languages: — Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP)
Swarm: The swarm can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny maggot. The swarm can’t regain hit points or gain temporary hit points.
ACTIONS
Bites: Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 0 ft., one creature in the swarm’s space. Hit: The target is infest- ed by 1d4 rot grubs. At the start of each of the target’s turns, the target takes 1d6 piercing damage per rot grub infesting it. Applying fire to the bite wound before the end of the target’s next turn deals | fire damage to the target and kills these rot grubs. After this time, these rot grubs are too far under the skin to be burned.
If a target infested by rot grubs ends its turn with 0
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
hit points, it dies as the rot grubs burrow into its heart and kill it. Any effect that cures disease kills all the rot grubs infesting the target.
A writhing mass of scores of pale gray grubs with gasping, tooth- Lined mouths, wiggles disgustingly from a heap of decaying matter.
SWARM OF WEBBIRDS Medium swarm of Tiny beasts, unaligned AC: 13
Hit Points: 35 (10d8 - 10) Speed: 10 ft., fly 50 ft.
STR DEX CON 7(-2) 16(43) 9(-1)
INT 3 (-4)
WIS CHA 12(+1) 6(-2)
Skills: Perception +3 Damage Resistances: bludgeoning, piercing, slashing
Condition Immunities: charmed, frightened, grap- pled, paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Senses: passive Perception 13 Languages: — Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP)
Swarm: The swarm can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny webbird. The swarm can’t regain hit points or gain temporary hit points.
ACTIONS
Bites: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 0 ft., one creature in the swarm’s space. Hit: 5 (2d4) piercing damage, or 2 (1d4) piercing damage if the swarm has half of its hit points or fewer.
Web (Recharge 4-6): Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one creature. Hit: The target is re- strained by webbing. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 13 Strength check, bursting the web- bing on a success. The webbing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; 5 hit points; immunity to bludg- eoning, poison, and psychic damage; applying alcohol to the webbing destroys it automatically).
Egg Proboscis: A webbird lands on an incapacitated or restrained target and inserts its proboscis into the creature’s flesh. The target must make a DC 14 Consti- tution saving throw or be infected with webbird eggs.
These eggs hatch 1 hour after being laid, giving birth to 1d4 larva-like grubs who begin to devour the host, inflicting 3 (1d6) piercing damage per grub infecting it at the start of the target’s turn. If a target infected with webbird larvae ends its turn with 0 hit points, it dies as the webbird grubs burrow out of its body. Any effect that cures disease destroys the webbird larvae, prevent- ing the target from taking further damage.
A fluttering swarm of unusual birds the size of a raven. Each bird lacks a beak and instead has a tiny mouth filled with tiny pointed teeth. Their tails are long and spikey looking, and a small drooping appendage dangles from their breasts. The birds’ plumage ranges from the dull gray to iridescent blue and green.
THORNY
Medium plant, neutral
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 27 (5d8 + 5) Speed: 30 ft.
WIS CHA 10(+0) 6 (-2)
STR DEX CON INT 13 (+1) 1241) 131) 2(-4)
Skills: Perception +4, Stealth +3
Damage Resistances: lightning, piercing Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: —
Challenge: | (200 XP)
Plant Camouflage: The thorny has advantage on Dex- terity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with am- ple obscuring plant life.
Regeneration: The thorny regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the thorny’s next turn. The thorny dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
Thorny Body: At the start of its turn, the thorny deals 2 (1d4) piercing damage to any creature grappling it.
ACTIONS
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (2d6 + 1) piercing damage.
A doglike creature seemingly comprised of living vegetation. Sharp thorns sprout from its canine, plant body and fill its mouth instead of teeth.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
TRAPPER
Large monstrosity, unaligned
TRI-FLOWER FROND Medium plant, unaligned
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 85 (10d10 + 30) Speed: 10 ft., climb 10 ft.
STR DEX CON _ INT 17 (+3) 10(+0) 17(+3) 2(-4)
WIS CHA 13(+1) 4(-3)
AC: 10
Hit Points: 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed: 5 ft. STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 1(-5) 10(+0) 12(+1) 1(-5) 10(+0) 1(-5)
Skills: Stealth +2
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Per- ception 11
Languages: —
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: — Challenge: 1/2 (100 XP)
False Appearance: While the trapper is attached to a ceiling, floor, or wall and remains motionless, it is almost indistinguishable from an ordinary section of ceiling, floor, or wall. A creature that can see it and suc- ceeds on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) or Intel- ligence (Nature) check can discern its presence. Spider Climb: The trapper can climb difficult surfac- es, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
ACTIONS
Smother: One Large or smaller creature within 5 feet of the trapper must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity sav- ing throw or be grappled (escape DC 14). Until the grapple ends, the target takes 17 (4d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (1d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. While grappled in this way, the target is restrained, blinded, and at risk of suffocating. The trap- per can smother only one creature at a time.
Suddenly, the floor (or ceiling) ripples with unexpected life as a thick, rubbery creature moves towards you, a gaping mouth visible at the center of its flat body. Its coloration perfectly matches the surrounding area, making it indistinguishable from floor or ceiling.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The tri-flower frond uses its orange blos- som, then its yellow blossom, and then its red blossom. Orange Blossom: The tri-flower frond chooses one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. While poisoned in this way, the target is unconscious. At the end of each minute, the poisoned target can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Yellow Blossom: The tri-flower frond chooses one creature it can see within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, or it is covered with corrosive sap and takes 5 acid damage at the start of each of its turns. Dousing the target with water reduces the acid damage by 1 point per pint or flask of water used.
Red Blossom: Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 11). Until this grapple ends, the target takes 5 (2d4) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. The red blossom can grapple only one target at a time. Another creature within reach of the tri-flower frond can use its action to end the grapple on the target.
This plant has three deep green stalks rising up to 8 feet in the air from a central bottle-shaped base. Each of the stalks is crowned mith a trumpet-shaped flower of a different color: one is vivid or- ange, the second ts bright yellow, and the last is of intense red coloration.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
TYPE ONE BIOLOGICAL ENTITY
Medium humanoid (biological entity), neutral
TYPE TWO BIOLOGICAL ENTITY
Large humanoid (biological entity), neutral
AC: 13 Hit Points: 34 (4d8 + 16) Speed: 30 ft.
AC: 15 (natural armor) Hit Points: 57 (6d10 + 24) Speed: 30 ft.
WIS CHA 10(+0) 4 (-3)
STR DEX CON _ INT 18 (+4) 16(+3) 18(+4) 6(-2)
STR DEX CON INT 20 (+5) 14 (42) 18 (+4) 6 (-2)
WIS CHA 10(+0) 4(-3)
Damage Resistances: poison; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities: exhaustion, frightened Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: understands Alien Common but can’t speak Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell: The biological entity has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Pack Tactics: The biological entity has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the biological entity’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.
Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest): If the biological entity takes 8 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, it is reduced to | hit point instead.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The biological entity makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its battleaxe.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Battleaxe: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 15 (2d10 + 4) slashing damage if used with two hands. Feet Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing damage.
Type one biological entities resemble hairless humans that possess ani- malistic traits. Their legs are like a canine’s rear limbs complete with clawed feet, their faces possess short muzzles filled with sharp teeth, and their ears are flared like a bat’s. The flesh of a biological entity is almost plastic in rigidity which reduces injury they suffer from physical attacks. The eyes of a biological entity lack. any semblance of lje and they attack with grim, emotionless persistence. Each is dressed in a dirty and torn cloth jumpsuit and bears a battleaxe that is little more than a plate of sharpened metal affixed to a steel haft.
Damage Resistances: poison; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities: exhaustion, frightened Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages: understands Alien Common but can’t speak Challenge: 4 (1,100 XP)
Aggressive: As a bonus action, the biological entity can move up to its speed towards a hostile creature that it can see.
Keen Hearing and Smell: The biological entity has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest): If the biological entity takes 10 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, it is reduced to 1 hit point instead.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The biological entity makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its greatclub.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage.
Greatelub: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. This type of biological entity is much larger than a type one, pos- sessing the musculature of a gorilla, but with the hardened skin of a rhino. It has great flaring nostrils and rabbit-like ears, and it walks with a hunched-over gait. The eyes of a biological entity lack. any semblance of life and they attack with grim, emotionless persistence. Its flesh is pasty white and striated with visible veins. It carries either a ship-forged bludgeoning weapon or a piece of debris to smash enemies with. Each is either nude or wears torn cloth as a crude loincloth.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
VAMPIRE THORN Large plant, unaligned
VAMPOID
Medium aberration, neutral evil
AC: 15 (natural armor) Hit Points: 60 (8d10 + 16) Speed: 5 ft., climb 5 ft.
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 30 ft., fly 40 ft.
STR DEX CON_ INT CHA 15 (+2) 10(+0) 14 (42) 1(-5) 1(-5)
wIs 10 (+0)
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 14(42) 1341) 8(-1)
Condition Immunities: blinded, deafened, exhaus- tion, prone
Senses: blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages: — Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
False Appearance: While the vampire thorn remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal plant. Lightning Absorption: Whenever the vampire thorn is subjected to lightning damage, it takes no damage and regains a number of hit points equal to the light- ning damage dealt.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The vampire thorn makes one blood drain attack on all creatures within reach of its vines. Blood Drain: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grap- ple ends, the target is restrained and the vampire thorn doesn’t attack. Instead, at the start of each of the vam- pire thorn’s turns, the target takes 16 (4d6 + 2) necrotic damage due to blood loss.
The vampire thorn can end the grapple by spending an action. It does this after the target dies or it suffers fire damage.
Ai long, thick vine of dark green hue has grown throughout this area. Large thorns, some the size of small knives, encrust the large
tendril, half-hidden by spade-shaped leaves sprouting from the vine.
Skills: Perception +3
Damage Immunities: cold, radiant
Senses: blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: Vampoid
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Blood is the Life: A vampoid that has fed in the last 24 hours does not need to breathe or sleep and can even survive in an empty vacuum or underwater.
Chilling Aura: Any creature other than a vampoid that starts its turn within 5 feet of the vampoid must suc- ceed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) cold damage.
Echolocation: The vampoid can’t use its blindsight while deafened.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The vampoid makes three attacks: two with its claws and one with its bite.
Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Instead of dealing damage, the vampoid can grapple the target instead (escape DC 13).
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature that is grappled by the vampoid, incapacitated, or restrained. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target’s hit point max- imum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vampoid regains hit points equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target fin- ishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
Vampoids are ganglh-limbed and roughly humanoid in shape. Their skin is dark brown in color and each has leathery wings stretching from wrist to ankle. The head of a vampoid resembles a skeletal alligator’, its skin stretched taut across its skull. A
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
deathly chill, as cold as space, seeps from their bodies. Three yellow eyes, two on either side of the head and one at the base of its nose, flash in the darkness and they emit eerie staccato clicks and low wails. The vampoids use these calls as echolocation, allowing them to pinpoint prey in the darkest of conditions. Each vampoid wears a scavenged belt or bandolier containing trinkets they collect from their many victims.
VEGEPYGMY
Small plant, neutral
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 9 (2d6 + 2) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT 7(-2) 14(42) 1341) 6(-2)
WIS CHA 1141) 7(-2)
Skills: Perception +2, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances: lightning, piercing Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: Vegepygmy
Challenge: 1/4 (50 XP)
Plant Camouflage: The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life.
Regeneration: The vegepygmy regains 3 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vegepygmy’s next turn. The vegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
ACTIONS
Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Sling: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. Vegepygmies are short bipedal creatures with sharp thoru-like claws. Their shoulders, abdomens, and limbs are fringed with leaf: like tendrils. They vary in coloration, ranging from deep greens to pallid yellows and dark, browns, and can easily blend into sur- rounding vegetation. They bear scavenged weapons and communi- cate in weird vocalized cries and chest-thumping.
VEGEPYGMY CHIEF
Small plant, neutral
AC: 14 (natural armor) Hit Points: 33 (6d6 + 12) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT 14 (+2) 14(+2) 142) 7(2)
WIS CHA 12(41) 9(-1)
Skills: Perception +3, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances: lightning, piercing Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: Vegepygmy
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
Plant Camouflage: The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life.
Regeneration: The vegepygmy regains 5 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vegepygmy’s next turn. The vegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The vegepygmy makes two attacks with its claws or two melee attacks with its spear.
Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Spear: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack.
Spores (1/Day): A 15-foot-radius cloud of toxic spores extends out from the vegepygmy. The spores spread around corners. Each creature in that area that isn’t a plant must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. While poisoned this way, a target takes 9 (2d8) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Identical to a sub-chief, the tribe's leader is only an inch or tno taller than these larger specimens of vegepygmy-dom. However, its elevated rank is discernable by its commanding presence and, in some cases, by the articles of old clothing it still wears due to vague memories of its formerly human heritage.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
VEGEPYGMY ELITE
Small plant, neutral
VEGEPYGMY SUB-CHIEF
Small plant, neutral
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 18 (4d6 + 4) Speed: 30 ft.
AC: 13 (natural armor) Hit Points: 22 (5d6 + 5) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON _ INT 10 (+0) 14(+2) 13(41) 6(-2)
WIS CHA 11(40) 7(-2)
WIS CHA 11 (+0) 7(-2)
STR DEX CON _ INT 12(+1) 14(42) 1341) 6(-2)
Skills: Perception +2, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances: lightning, piercing Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: Vegepygmy
Challenge: 1 (200 XP)
Skills: Perception +2, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances: lightning, piercing Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: Vegepygmy
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)
Plant Camouflage: The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life.
Regeneration: The vegepygmy regains 3 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vegepygmy’s next turn. The vegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
Plant Camouflage: The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuring plant life.
Regeneration: The vegepygmy regains 3 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the vegepygmy’s next turn. The vegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
ACTIONS
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The vegepygmy makes two attacks with its claws or two melee attacks with its spear.
Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Spear: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack.
Sling: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
A slightly larger version of the more common vegepygmy, this crea- ture is surrounded by a thin haze of drifting spores. It carries a Jjury-vigged spear and a belt bearing a doth pouch encircles its plant body.
Multiattack: The vegepygmy makes two attacks with its claws or two melee attacks with its spear.
Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Spear: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack.
Sling: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. Spores (1/Day): A 15-foot-radius cloud of toxic spores extends out from the vegepygmy. The spores spread around corners. Each creature in that area that isn’t a plant must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. While poisoned this way, a target takes 7 (2d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. A target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A vegepygny sub-chief is only distinguishable from an elite member of the tribe by the command it holds over lesser status members.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
THE VENOMOUS WARLORD WEBBIRD Medium simulated humanoid (human), lawful evil Tiny beast, unaligned AC: 16 (chain mail) AC: 13
Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 33) Speed: 30 ft.
Hit Points: 1 (1d4 - 1) Speed: 10 ft., fly 50 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 18 (44) 13.41) 17 (+3) 14 (+2) 14.42) 16 (43)
STR DEX CON 4(-3) 16(+3) 9(-1)
INT 3 (-4)
WIS CHA 12(41) 6 (-2)
Skills: Intimidation +5
Senses: blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 12 Languages: Alien Common
Challenge: 3 (750 XP)
Skills: Perception +3
Senses: passive Perception 13 Languages: —
Challenge: 0 (10 XP)
Pixilated Step (Recharge 5-6): The Venomous War- lord is briefly surrounded by a cloud of pixilation and then teleports up to 30 feet away to an unoccupied space that it can see.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The Venomous Warlord makes two at- tacks with its venom blade.
Venom Blade: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing plus 3 (1d6) poison damage, or 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing plus 3 (1d6) poison damage if used with two hands.
Poison Blast (Recharge 5-6): The Venomous Warlord unleashes a blast of green venom at a single target it can see within 30 feet. The target must make a DC 11 Consti- tution saving throw, taking 13 (2d12) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Spawn Servants (3/Day): As a bonus action, the Ven- omous Warlord summons one poison imp (stats as goblin) which appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of it that it can see. The imp acts on its own ini- tiative count. A poison imp remains for 1 minute, until it or the Venomous Warlord dies, or until the Venomous Warlord dismisses it as a bonus action.
The Venomous Warlord appears as a 7-foot-tall humanoid dressed in green chain mail and wearing a helmet shaped like a fanged serpent. A billowing purple cape flaps silently behind it in a non- existent breeze. The Warlord fights with a purple longsword that drips black. venom. Its Poison Blast attack. manifests as a shimmer- ing green longbow that fires an arrow made of concentrated venom at its target. The Warlord occasionally glitches and freezes, but this ts a cosmetic effect and has no impact on its ability to function.
ACTIONS
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 1 piercing damage.
Egg Proboscis: The webbird lands on an incapacitated or restrained target and inserts its proboscis into the creature’s flesh. The target must make a DC 14 Consti- tution saving throw or be infected with webbird eggs. These eggs hatch 1 hour after being laid, giving birth to 1d4 larva-like grubs who begin to devour the host, in- flicting 3 (1d6) piercing damage per grub infecting it at the start of each of the target’s turns. Ifa target infected with webbird larvae ends its turn with 0 hit points, it dies as the webbird grubs burrow out of its body. Any effect that cures disease destroys the webbird larvae, preventing the target from taking further damage.
Unusual birds the size of ravens and possessing some intelligence, webbirds lack beaks and instead have small maws filled with tiny pointed teeth. Their tails are long and spikey looking, and a small drooping appendage dangles from their breasts. This appendage ts its egg-laying proboscis. Webbirds’ plumage ranges from the dull gray to iridescent blue and green. In large numbers, webbirds can act in concert to create sticky webs, but solitary birds lack this ability.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
WEIGHTLIFTING PHYSICAL TRAINING ANDROID
Medium construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 75 (10d8 + 30) Speed: 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 10(+0) 121) 9(-1)
Saving Throws: Wis +4, Cha +2
Skills: Athletics +7, Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire
Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 5 (1,800 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the android suffers lightning dam- age it may suffer a short circuit that renders it inca- pacitated. The chance the android short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the android takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuiting. A short-circuited android remains in- capacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The android possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The android has advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Water Susceptibility: If the android is immersed in water it automatically short-circuits after 3 rounds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The android makes two punch or two thrown weight attacks.
Punch: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 +4) bludgeoning damage. Thrown Weight: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,
range 10/30 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) bludg- eoning damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
This bald, tall, human male with well-sculpted muscles carries a curious weapon comprised of a long pole with solid metal discs the size of cart wheels on either end. The figure wears only a pair of loose fabric trousers to better display his formidable physique.
WOLF-IN-SHEEP’S-CLOTHING Medium plant, unaligned
AC: 15 (natural armor) Hit Points: 78 (12d8 + 24) Speed: 5 ft.
WIS 12 (+1)
STR DEX CON INT 16 (+3) 1341) 14442) 3(-4)
CHA 1(-5)
Skills: Perception +3, Stealth +3
Condition Immunities: deafened, exhaustion, prone Senses: darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 Languages: —
Challenge: 3 (700 XP)
Ambusher: In the first round of a combat, the wolf-in- sheep’s-clothing has advantage on attack rolls against any creature it has surprised.
False Appearance: While the wolf-in-sheep’s-cloth- ing remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal tree stump with a harmless Tiny rabbitoid sit- ting atop it.
Keen Sight: The wolfs-in-sheep’s-clothing has advan- tage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its grasp- ing roots.
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Grasping Roots: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). If the target is Medium or smaller, it must also make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the tar- get is pulled into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
the wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing, and the wolf-in-sheep’s- clothing can make a bite attack against it as a bonus action. Until the grapple ends, the wolf-in-sheep’s- clothing can’t use this grasping root on another target. The wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing has seven grasping roots. The grasping root can be attacked (AC 13; 30 hit points; immunity to psychic damage). Destroying the root deals no damage to the wolf-in-sheep’s clothing, but it can no longer attack with that grasping root.
A small rabbit-like creature nith a pair of tiny horns squats atop a tree stump in the middle of a pastoral glade. Upon treading closer, suddenly the stump splits to reveal a tooth-filled maw and a pair of eyes atop flexible stalks. The ground ripples as root-like tentacles emerge from the soil to grab at nearby prey.
WORKER ROBOT
Large construct, unaligned
AC: 18 (natural armor) Hit Points: 123 (13d10 + 52) Speed: 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS’ CHA 20 (+5) 14(+2) 18 (+4) 10(+0) 10(+0) 6 (-2)
Skills: Perception +4 Damage Resistances: acid, fire Damage Immunities: cold, poison, psychic
Condition Immunities: charmed, exhaustion, fright- ened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses: darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 14 Languages: Alien Common Challenge: 9 (5,000 XP)
Electrical Flaw: If the robot suffers lightning damage it may suffer a short circuit that renders it incapaci- tated. The chance the robot short-circuits when taking lightning damage is equal to 1% per point of damage inflicted. For example, if the robot takes 10 points of lightning damage it has a 10% chance of short-circuit- ing. A short-circuited robot remains incapacitated until repaired.
Integral Color Card: The robot possesses a built-in frequency key that duplicates yellow and violet color cards, allowing it to open doors requiring these or color cards of lesser status.
Keen Hearing and Sight: The robot has advantage on
oRiGcinaL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
all Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Robotic Nature: Whenever the robot starts its turn with 20 hit points or fewer, it must make a DC 15 Con- stitution saving throw. Failure indicates the robot has short-circuited and will be incapacitated until repaired. Self-Defense: If the robot is operating normally it only attacks if attacked first. It uses nonlethal means to de- fend itself whenever possible, preferring to employ its tentacles or tractor/repulsion beam to restrain enemies or otherwise render foes incapable of attacking it. Tractor/Repulsion Beam: As a bonus action, the ro- bot produces a force beam capable of pushing or pull- ing one Huge or smaller creature or object weighing 300 pounds or less. The beam has a 60-foot range.
If the target is a creature, the robot must make a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score; on a success it can move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward, but not beyond the beam’s range. If the target is a loose object, it is moved automatically 30 feet in any direc- tion, including upwards. If the target is an object be- ing carried or held by a living creature, the robot must succeed on a Strength check against a DC equal to the creature’s Strength score in order to move it; a failure indicates the creature retains its hold of the object and it does not move.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The robot makes two tentacle or two pincher attacks.
Pincher: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage. Tentacle: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 15) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the robot can’t use the same tentacle on another target. The robot has two tentacles.
An 8-foot-tall metal creature with a cylindrical body, this artificial Life-form possesses a pair of thick legs ending in slab-like feet the size of kite shields. A quartet of limbs—two arms ending in a pair of hands with slender, manipulative fingers and tno flexible tentacles nith vise-like clamps at their ends—are attached to its up- per body. A ring of glass lenses runs equidistant around the crea- ture’s hemispherical head. A log protrusion extends straight out from the creature's crown, giving it a vaguely duck-like appearance.
APPENDIX C
Technological Items
n this section are found rules for the Dungeon Mas-
ter to use for determining the successful use of any
technological item found on the ship. Following these rules are descriptions of the weapons and major items on board. Information necessary for the DM is given and some descriptions are included to be given to the players. These descriptions are couched in terms that reflect the characters’ ignorance of advanced technology. The DM is encouraged to show the appropriate handout and to describe the steps taken whenever players attempt to lean the use of an item.
DETERMINATION OF PROPER USE
Whenever a new item is discovered, the character may operate it or merely stow it for later inspection. Any at- tempt to use such items is adjudicated using the following rules. These mechanics are adapted from the suggested methods described in the Dungeon Master’s Guide on p. 268.
To determine how the item works, a character must suc- ceed on a number of Intelligence checks based on the complexity of the item: one success for a Simple item, two successes for a Moderate item, three successes for a Difficult item, and four successes for an Extraordinary item. Then consult the Figuring Out Alien Technology table below. The complexity of each item is listed in its entry in the following section.
If the creature attempting to figure out the item fails its Intelligence check, it must complete a short rest be- fore making a new check. This represents the creature rethinking what went wrong and how the device might properly operate. Another creature can attempt to figure out the item in the meantime, however.
A character who has seen an item used or has operated a similar item has advantage on Intelligence checks made to figure out its use.
FIGURING OvT ALIEN
TECHTMOLOGY Int. Check Total Result 5 or lower One failure, one charge or use
is wasted, if applicable, plus roll Mishap die; character has disad- vantage on next check and must complete a short rest before mak- ing another Intelligence check
6-9 One failure; one charge or use is wasted, if applicable; character has disadvantage on next check and must complete a short rest before making another Intelli- gence check
10-14 One failure and the character must complete a short rest be- fore making another Intelligence check
15-19 One success
20 or higher One success; character has ad-
vantage on next check
If the character rolls a total result of 5 or less on their In- telligence check, there is a chance they injure themselves or break the item, rendering it permanently inoperable. On a result of 5 or less, the DM rolls a Mishap die based on the item’s complexity:
MISHAP DIE TYPES
Item’s Complexity Die to Use Simple d4 Moderate d6 Difficult d8 Extraordinary d10
If the result of the Mishap die roll is greater than the Intelligence check result, a mishap occurs and the char- acter either breaks the item or injures themselves (50/50 chance). If an item is incapable of injuring the character, it automatically breaks.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED »« EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
An injury result means the examiner accidentally discharges the item if it’s a weapon, doing damage to themselves (and potentially others) as if successfully attacked by the weapon. An injury result for a non-weapon item indicates the char- acter has accidentally pinched a finger, dropped it on their foot, cut themselves on a piece of exposed metal, or oth- erwise had a calamity determined by the DM. The charac- ter suffers either bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage (DM's choice) equal to another roll of the mishap die (eg. a character dropping an item of Moderate complexity would take 1d6 damage of an appropriate type determined by the DM). Several characters are allowed to try to discover the proper- ties of any item as long as it remains functional, but only one can make an Intelligence check at a time after examin- ing the item for at least 1 minute. Once one character learns how to use an item, he or she may instruct others in its use. Instruction takes 1 minute for a Simple item, 10 minutes for a Moderate or Difficult item, and 1 hour for a device of
Extraordinary complexity.
e__________ ____________e TECHIOLOGY AnD PROFICIENCY
By a strict reading of the rules, no class would be proficient with any technological weapon discovered aboard the spaceship and therefore not enjoy the ben- efits of their proficiency bonus when using these de- vices.
However, since figuring out how to utilize a blaster is in itself a process of familiarizing oneself with the weapon and that it’s far more enjoyable to laser one’s enemies to death than slash at them with a sword, it is suggested that all PCs be treated as proficient with any technological armaments they successfully figure out. With the finite amount of power each weapon possesses, the party has only a short amount of time and/or uses of a power weapon and it is more fun for the players to occasionally hit their targets successfully than constantly miss. In the long run, the temporary benefits of proficiency will expire and game balance be restored.
Besides, with a horde of well-armed police robots awaiting them inside the ship, the party is going to need all the help they can get!
WEAPONS DATA
BLASTER PISTOL
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 30/90 ft.
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use Damage: 5d6 radiant
Use Handout #70. When found, this item will usually be folded. It weighs about 1 %2 pounds and will unfold to about 1 foot. It is composed of a U-shaped section of metal rod with a black rivet on one end and an at- tached piece of thick glass mounted in a frame. This glass is about the size of a hand mirror. On one side of the frame are two raised discs, while on the other is a fine mesh, mounted on a rod. The two sides of the glass are dark on one side (the firing side) and clear on the other (the viewing side). In the hinge joining the handle and glass frame is a slot about the size of a coin.
The pistol is operated by turning the top dial. On the
viewing side of the screen, crosshairs and range figures (in an unreadable language) will appear. The second dial
will magnify the scene slightly. Once a target is selected, the pistol is fired by pressing the black button in the han-
dle.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
BLASTER RIFLE Complexity: Difficult
Range: 50/150 ft.
Power Disc Drain: 2 charges/use Damage: See below
Use Handout #71. As with the blaster pistol, this item will also be usually found in a folded-up state, about 1 Ya feet long. When unfolded, it is about 3 feet long. It weighs nearly 5 pounds. It appears to consist of joint- ed metal rods, a curved metal plate, a hardened leather band or collar, and a pane of glass, framed and mounte on the end of a rod. There is a black rivet at the en of the U-shaped rod. The metal plate has three raised, colored bars—black, white, and red—and a coin-shaped slot above them. There is a blue rivet on the side above the collar. The band is made of a hardened leather or horn-like material, fashioned into overlapping plates. No stitching may be seen. The glass is thick and dark on both sides. On one side of the frame is a metal mesh mounte ona small rod.
The rifle must first be unfolded and then the left arm is thrust through the collar. This band will automatically constrict to a firm grip so that the gun need not be hel constantly. It will only release when the blue button is pushed. The rifle activates when one of the colored set- tings is pushed. The black button on the U-shaped han- dle is pushed to fire. The shot originates from the screen.
The settings and effects are as follows:
Black. Disruption bean, effective out to long range. This beam will vaporize anything short of hull metal when it hits. The beam affects up to 6 cubic feet of material. When an individual creature is targeted it must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 5d6 force damage and is stunned for 1d4 rounds. The creature can attempt a DC 12 Constitution saving throw on subsequent rounds, ending the stunned condi- tion on itself on a successful save. A target struck by the disruption beam has disadvantage on subsequent Dexter- ity saving throws to avoid the beam. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by the disruption beam is disintegrated.
White. Heat beam, effective out to long range. A wave of heat sweeps out in a 4-foot-wide beam, and all in its path must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. Crea- tures failing their save suffer 5d4 fire damage and gain one level of exhaustion due to heat exhaustion.
Red. Flame plane, effective only to normal range. A
horizontal plane cuts out a 50-foot cone. All creatures in the cone must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The flame plane ignites any inflammable materials in this plane that aren’t being worn or carried.
GRENADES
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 20/60 ft. (thrown)
Area of Effect: 20-foot diameter Damage: By type of grenade (see below)
Use Handout #72. These are about the size of a large apple or similar fruit, indented all around for grasping. They are smooth and featureless, except for two rivets— a large and a small one. Around the larger one are three markings in an unknown tongue.
The larger button is used to determine time of explo- sion delay (immediate, 1 round, 2 rounds), according to what setting is chosen. The smaller button must be de- pressed, given a half turn, and depressed again. Thereaf- ter, when the grenade is hurled, the arming pin springs out, and the grenade explodes after the explosion delay elapses (no-delay grenades explode on impact, 1-round grenades explode at the start of the thrower’s turn the following round, and 2-round grenades explode at the
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
start of the thrower’s turn two subsequent rounds after being thrown).
There are four types of grenades:
Fragmentation. All within the grenade’s area of effect must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d6 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Gas, Poison. All creatures within the grenade’s area of effect must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. Creatures failing their saving throw take 12d6 poison damage, or half as much damage on a successful one. All creatures taking damage from the poison gas are also poisoned. The cloud of poisonous vapors persists for 1 minute in a stagnant area, but in ventilated areas it will be gone in 5 rounds. In windy situations it will last only 1 round. The grenade cannot be used effectively in very windy situations. Any creature ending their turn within the gas grenade’s area of effect must make a Constitution saving throw if they have not already done so, suffering the effects of the gas.
Gas, Sleep. All creatures within the grenade’s area of effect must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. Creatures failing their saving throw fall asleep until either 30 minutes elapse, the sleeper takes damage, or someone uses their action to shake or slap the sleeper awake. Any creature ending their turn within the gas grenade’s area of effect must make a Constitution saving throw to avoid falling asleep, even if they have already . This reflects persistent qualities of the gas. Cloud persistence
succeede
is the same as for a poison gas grenade.
Incendiary. All creatures in the blast radius take 2d6 fire damage. Inflammable materials in the area of effect that aren’t being worn or carried catch fire. Next round, and for 1d3 rounds thereafter, each creature originally within the blast area will sustain an additional 1d6 fire damage from residual chemicals burning. A DC 15 Constitution saving throw is allowed at the end of the affected crea- ture’s turn, ending the ongoing damage on itself on a successful one. Each skin of water thrown on the target will reduce damage by 1, and total immersion will negate residual burns.
ES
JURY-RIGGED INCINERATOR
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 20-foot cone
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use (plus fuel) Damage: 4d6 fire
This device is comprised of a long rod measuring 3 feet in length. A flattened conical hood covers one end of the rod and a rectangle of thick stiffened metal dowels extends from the other. A cylindrical bottle-shaped protrusion sticks out perpendicular to the rod just in front of a small- er rectangular post. A round plate the width of a human palm rests atop the rod directly opposite the smaller post.
This device was once a low-power welding tool used by the ship’s technicians to make simple repairs. As the plague-induced madness swept through the ship, one of the vessel’s technicians made unauthorized changes to the device, added a liquid fuel cell (the bottle-shaped protrusion), and transformed the welder into a flame- thrower. He burned his colleagues to death with it, but was slain in the process.
The incinerator throws fire from its flattened conical hood. The metal dowels are a wire stock that rests against the shoulder when fired by squeezing the smaller rectan- gular post.
All creatures caught in the incinerator’s cone of fire must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The incinerator ignites any flammable objects in the cone that aren’t being worn or carried.
Pressing a stud on the round plate causes it to swing open revealing the device’s power disc. The incinerator must have both a charged power disc and fuel in its fuel cell to operate. The liquid fuel cell can hold up to 1 quart of highly inflammable fuel, enough to be used 8 times. The device is intended to use specific fuel found only on the ship, but flammable liquid such as a flask of oil or alcohol can be substituted. However, this substandard fuel grants advan- tage to creatures making a Dexterity saving throw to resist the weapon’s flames and can potentially trigger an explo- sion, On an attack roll of 1, the incinerator explodes, doing 3d6 fire damage per fuel use remaining (a fully-fueled incin- erator explosion would inflict 24d6 fire damage, for exam- ple!). All within a 15-foot radius of the exploding weapon must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, with the holder of the weapon having disadvantage on its save, taking only half as much damage on a successful one.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LASER PISTOL Complexity: Moderate
Range: 40/120 ft.
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use Damage: 3d6 radiant
Use Handout #73. This appears as a heavy armband with two projections, both about 6 inches long. One pro- jection ends in a black leather grip. The other ends in a smooth, cone-shaped red stone, much like a jewel, with a slightly silvery end. There is a coin-sized slot at the base of this projection. Inside the armband are a number of overlapping plates. The entire thing is encased in a white, shell-like material.
The pistol is operated by inserting the hand through the band and applying firm pressure to the grip. The plates in the band will gently close on the wrist to hold it in place, although the hand may be slipped out with care. The beam will originate from the end of the second pro- jection, the ruby rod.
A laser beam will cut through 1 inch of bulkhead or deck metal along a 1-foot path each time it is aimed and fired at normal range. Comparatively, it will cut through 6 inches of steel or 1 foot of iron along a 1-foot line.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LASER RIFLE Complexity: Difficult
Range: 80/240 ft.
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use Damage: 3d8 radiant
Use Handout #74. In appearance this is quite similar to the laser pistol, although on a larger scale. The thing is made of the same shell-like material. The two projections are the same, but longer, and the shorter one has a black rivet placed forward of the grip. One major difference is that instead of a single armband there are now two. Both bands are lined with overlapping metal plates. There is a glass crystal or gem on the section connecting the two armbands. The second armband extends to form a point on one side. A smooth rope comes out of the thing just ahead of this band and connects to a mail coif and visor. This coif is of a soft, lightweight metal. The visor has thick, smoky pieces of glass mounted in a frame.
The laser rifle is worn and operated in much the same way as the laser pistol (i.e. the forearm is slipped in, the plates contract, and the grip squeezes to fire). However, the mesh hood and glasses must also be used for effec- tive fire. The glasses will project a ghostlike image of what the laser rifle “sees” through its camera eye. The button in the grip will turn the camera on or off. If the laser rifle is used without the camera, all attack rolls are made at disadvantage. It is possible at all times to see normally, ignoring the ghost images.
Metal cutting rate is the same length as a pistol, but the thickness cut is double that of the pistol.
MONOBLADE FIRE AXE Complexity: Simple Damage: See below
This tool resembles an ordinary fire axe down to its red coloration. However, its blade is adorned with yellow and black chevrons to warn of its dangerous edge. The axe possesses a monomolecular blade that allows it to cut through nonliving material with ease and inflict ter- rible wounds on living tissue. A successful attack with the monoblade fire axe does 1d12 slashing damage and the weapon is considered adamantine for damage resistance purposes. It also ignores any damage threshold an object possesses, making it possible to hew through immense objects if given enough time. When used against a living creature, it deals an addition 1d4 necrotic damage due the ghastly nature of the wounds it inflicts.
A monoblade fire axe needs no power disc to operate but was never intended for prolonged use. Anytime the axe deals maximum damage, there is a 50% chance it breaks and the monoblade becomes permanently destroyed. Magical repair might restore the axe to full use at the DM's discretion, but it is impossible to be reconstructed by ordinary means.
NEEDLER PISTOL
Complexity: Moderate Range: 10/30 ft. or 30-foot cone (see below) Damage: 6d4 piercing or 2d4 piercing (see below)
Use Handout #75. This item could perhaps be a potion bottle or a flask strapped to a number of tubes. The base of the bottle (actually the handle) has a silvery lid with a knob in the center. The bottle flask is bound in black leather and silver. From the top of this, a broad metal band encircles a number of tubes. Out one end stick three large projecting tubes, while the other has but a single tube, with a small hole in its end. There is a fluted knob on the side with a line across its top. There are two markings above it—a small dot and a big “O.”
The pistol operates by pointing the single tube at the tar- get and squeezing the handle. After each burst the three tubes in the back will pump in air, creating a slight suc- tion. If the knob in the base of the handle is twisted and pulled, a compartment will open for the needler clip. It will seem to be a small drawer and clips will appear as small, lacquered wood boxes. A clip may not be opened except by smashing.
The butt-loading clip holds 10 cluster cartridges. Each cartridge contains 10 needle-like projectiles which burst after penetration or upon flattening. The selector switch on the left of the receiver housing can be set for narrow or broad pattern—a small dot or a big “O.” On narrow pattern, a single target must make a DC 12 Dexterity sav- ing throw, taking 6d4 piercing damage on a failed save*, or half as much damage on a successful one.
On broad pattern all creatures in a 30-foot cone must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d4 pierc- ing damage on a failed save.
*Optional Rule: If the creature rolls a 1 on its Dexterity saving throw, an eye hit has occurred if the creature isn’t wearing full eye protection. The target suffers damage as if struck by a critical hit and permanently loses the eye (unless a regenerating creature).
PARALYSIS PISTOL
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 60-foot cone
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use
Damage: Special
Use Handout #76. This looks like a glass bottle or re- tort with a pimpled or warty surface and a black han- dle on one side. Inside the bottle may be seen threads, wires, globes, and a rod. The broad end of the bottle has a rounded metal plate with several brass prongs sticking out of it. The narrow end is capped with a silver sheath and golden ball. The black handle has a round panel, larger than a coin, with a rivet in the center.
The pistol is fred by squeezing the handle, pointing the
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
broad end of the pistol toward the target. When fired there will be a humming noise and many flashing lights and sparks will go off inside. A small number of sparks will shoot from the golden ball at the narrow end, but the ray from the other end will be invisible. If the small but- ton in the handle is pushed, the raised disc will pop open, revealing a spot for a power disc.
All creatures in the cone must succeed on a DC 10 Con- stitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a successful save. A creature that succeeds on the Constitution saving throw when initially struck by the paralysis pistol is slowed as per the slow spell for 1 minute. It can attempt a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the slowed effect on itself on a successful save.
SAMPLE COLLECTION PISTOL Complexity: Moderate
Range: 60/180 ft.
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/use
Damage: 1 piercing plus 1 poison
This device resembles a short metal rod with a rectangu- lar box affixed to one end. A fan-shaped horn protrusion rests atop the rod near its other end. A smaller crossbar is attached perpendicularly to the main rod by a pair of curved, horn-like pieces. A thimble-sized stud sticks out from one end of the smaller crossbar rod.
This weapon is used by grabbing onto the crossbar so that the rectangular box rests atop the user’s wrist. When the stud is pressed lightly, a conical beam of green light shines from the fan-shaped protrusion, illuminating what-
ever target the weapon is pointed at. Alien characters are visible in the green light as it shines against a solid target, displaying information such as the target’s temperature, rough weight, and other biological data. Pressing the stud down completely fires a tiny dart from the pistol’s maga- zine (located along with its power disc in the rectangular box) that both delivers a knock-out chemical and draws a sample of the target’s DNA for collection. Each pistol can hold up to six darts, found separately. A pistol with- out power or darts does not function. A fired dart cannot be reused if retrieved.
A target struck by the pistol’s dart takes 1 point of pierc- ing damage and 1 point of poison damage, and must suc- ceed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be inca- pacitated for 1 minute. At the end of 1 minute, the target can make another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a suc- cessful save.
InISCELLANEOUS DEVICES DATA
ALL-WEATHER SHELTER Complexity: Moderate
Force Shield: Absorbs 10 damage (see below) Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/4 hours
When first found, this device resembles a tightly bound 2-foot-square bundle of slippery fabric either yellow or orange in color. A metal plate is set into the top of the bundle, seemingly a part of the material. A coin-sized raised disk with an up-pointing chevron along its top edge protrudes from the middle of the plate. When the disk is turned all the way to the right, the bundle expands to form a dome tent large enough for four Medium crea- tures. When turned all the way to the left, the disk causes the shelter to return to its collapsed size provided it is empty. If the tent contains any object or creature, it will not collapse. Pulling the disk outward causes the side of the square to swing open, revealing a compartment for the shelter’s power disc.
An active, powered shelter produces a thin defensive shield around the exterior of the tent. This force shield repels rain, sleet, hail, and snow, and provides 10 hit points of protection against piercing, slashing, and bludgeoning damage from nonmagical attacks. Any damage directed at the tent or those within it from these types of attacks
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
is deducted first from the shelter’s defensive field. If re- duced to 0 hit points, the shield goes down and cannot be restored until the shelter is collapsed and a long rest is undertaken.
The shelter provides protection and a comfortable envi- ronment in temperatures ranging from 0 to 100 degrees FE If the defensive shield is functioning, the range is ex- tended from -25 to 125 degrees F.
ANTI-GRAV BELT
Complexity: Simple
Move: Float upwards or downwards at 30 ft./round Load Limit: 500 pounds
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/10 minutes
This item appears to be a strangely crafted girdle, hung with odd ornaments and three leathery straps. It has no apparent clasp to open the girdle, though the front bears a large, embossed disc.
The belt is opened by giving the disc a quarter turn clock- wise and pressing in upon the boss. In the back of the embossing is a circular indentation the size of a coin. A power disc may be fitted into this recess. The belt is ac- tivated by turning the boss counterclockwise half a turn and pushing inwards.
Note that this device can be used to make an object up to 500 pounds weigh only as much as a 1-pound object, but the mass will still be that of a 500-pound object.
ATMOSPHERE ANALYZER
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 60 feet (radiation) or 40 feet (gas) or 20 feet (mold/spores)
Power Disc Drain: 1/2 charge/use
Use Handout #77. A gray slab of a material similar to horn, this is about the size of a necklace case. In one side are three windows, all rectangular in shape. Behind each is a strip of colored paper. The papers are all white on
one end and shade into another color at the other end. The window to the left is white shading to yellow, the middle window is white shading to purple, and the paper behind the right window is white shading to green. Over each window is mounted a translucent jewel, the same color as the colored paper of that window. At the front of the slab is a series of small holes. On the back is a narrow panel set in a groove. Sliding it will reveal a slot about the size of a gold coin.
The case is only 1/4 inch wide, 1/2 inch long, and about a thumb’s width thick. The windows are rolling gauges indicating concentrations of impurities in the air by roll- ing forward to darker shades of color. The yellow gauge detects spore and pollen content, the purple gauge meas- ures intensity of radiation, and the green gauge indicates the presence of gases. Purple, green, and/or yellow lights glow accordingly. Bulkheads which are non-radioactive will screen what is behind them as far as radiation count is concerned. Likewise, sealed areas will not affect the gas or spore registers. Otherwise, the analyzer automatically detects the presence of such impurities without the need for an ability check by the operator.
EMERGENCY SEALANT
Complexity: Moderate Area of Effect: 10-foot diameter
This material is an emergency repair substance used to patch holes in the spaceship’s hull until proper repairs could be made. It comes in a 3-foot-tall, 1-foot-diameter bright yellow cylinder adorned with black glyphs. An in- tegral handle at the cylinder’s top makes it easy to car- ry and each container of emergency sealant weighs 10 pounds. A metal ring about the size of a coin protrudes from the base of the cylinder’s handle and a 1/2-inch- square button is set into the handle just above it. To ac- tivate the canister, the metal ring must be pulled, which causes a 1-foot-long rigid spout to pop out from the side of the container. Pressing the button then dispenses a spray of blue foam that covers a 10-foot-diameter area to a 3-inch depth in 1 round. This substance hardens the following round to form a solid seal. This seal has AC 17, 18 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. The emergency sealant remains hardened for 1 hour, after which time it returns to foam and can easily be swept or washed away.
A creature caught in the spray’s area of effect must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, they
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
are covered with the foam and unless they spend an ac- tion brushing off the blue goo, they are restrained at the end of their next turn when the foam hardens. A creature trapped by the foam remains restrained until the hardened sealant is reduced to 0 hit points, the creature succeeds on a DC 16 Strength check, or 1 hour passes. Reducing the hardened sealant to 0 hit points frees all creatures trapped in the stuff.
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
Complexity: Moderate Range: 10-foot cone Uses: 6 maximum
This device has a base cylindrical shape with two han- dles on one side. Opposite the handles is a lever and a wide-mouthed spout adorns one end. On the other end is a padded crook like that of a crutch. A fully charged fire extinguisher has 6 charges and each use depletes 1 charge.
To operate the fire extinguisher the lever on top must be forced back towards the shoulder rest and then pushed forward; once this is accomplished the rearmost handle may be squeezed and a cone of carbon dioxide will spew out the nozzle. The CO, will inflict 1d4 cold damage to warm-blooded creatures, 1d6 cold damage to cold- blooded creatures, and 3d6 cold damage to plants. It also extinguishes any burning objects or surfaces within its cone of effect.
If the lever is not returned to the forward position the operator will hear a beeping noise and see an orange flashing light in the handle. In 2 rounds the extinguisher will explode causing 2d6 force damage to all within a 10- foot radius.
GAS MASK
Complexity: Simple
This appears to be some sort of ceremonial mask. It is made of a leather-like material and has several straps at- tached. A silvery metal plate covers the area of the eyes, but this does not seem to impair vision from the inside of the mask. There are no openings for the mouth or nose though the mask has been shaped to accommodate a nose and chin. At the base of the mask a cylindrical metal tube is attached and metal cords run from this tube up into the metal-framed mouth and nose region.
The mask’s eyepiece is a one-way mirror and permits sight out of the mask, but others cannot see in. At night or in dark surroundings this mask will reduce the range of vision by 10 feet, giving the wearer disadvantage on all sight-based Wisdom (Perception) checks. The mirrored viewer will reflect petrifying gazes, such as that of a me- dusa, but this does not make the wearer immune to the gazes’ effects.
When worn, the mask grants the wearer immunity to the effects of gases which must be breathed.
HAND PUMP SPRAY GUN
Complexity: Moderate
Range: 30 feet
Volume: 5 gallons (40 pints)
Use Per Spray: 1 pint
This apparatus appears to be two seamless barrels at- tached together and made of a bone-like material. Two woven straps of equal length are attached to these barrels and an oily-looking rope is fastened to the top of these barrels where they join. Upon the end of the rope is a wand-like instrument with a handle or lever.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
When the lever is squeezed several times (requiring an action) a fine mist will spray from the tip of the nozzle. The backpack can hold most liquids, except strong acids, and can be refilled by screwing off the top of each bar- rel. This device was used to spray weed control, a plant defoliant. This defoliant may be found in 1-quart cans which when mixed with 5 gallons of water becomes use- able causing 2d4 necrotic damage to a large plant or de- stroying a 2-foot-by-2-foot area of ground cover vegeta- tion per spray.
HOLOGRAM EMITTER
Complexity: Moderate
Range: Self or 20 ft. (see below)
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/hour (self) or 1/2 charge /10 minutes (projection)
This object appears to be a pouch-sized disk with a con- cave blue-black glass bead set into the center of the de- vice on one side. The bead can be rotated a half turn in either direction. The other side bears a springy metal hook that rests flush with the device’s backing. A small rectangle is set into the edge of the disk. Depressing the rectangle causes the disk to split open, revealing a space where a power disc can be inserted.
When used, this device emits a holographic projection in one of two ways. Its primary use was as a fashion acces- sory and costume. The user fastens the emitter to a belt or other piece of clothing using its metal clip, turns the bead (the emittet’s projection lens) to the right, and activates the device by pressing the bead inward. The emitter creates a holographic field that covers the wearer, masking them with an almost lifelike semblance of someone else.
If used to change the wearer’s appearance, they look like a random human (equal chance of gender) of the DM’s choosing. The hologram emitter grants the user advantage on all Charisma (Deception) checks to pass themselves off as someone other than their true iden- tity. However, a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) check made by someone scrutinizing the character detects flaws in their appear- ance that manifest as a faint pixelization of the character’s assumed identity. The hologram emitter never allows the user to assume the appearance of a specific person and always defaults to the random human form determined by the DM when first used.
When the glass bead is turned to the left, the springy
metal clip elongates, creating a “kickstand”-like protru- sion the emitter rests upon if placed on a flat surface. When the bead is pushed, it creates a random holograph- ic projection up to 20 feet away. This projection is always one of six images and pressing the bead repeatedly cycles through the images. The projection images are:
1 A woman dressed in silvery garments dancing alone.
2 A bear-like creature with antennae atop its head and six legs. It sits and begs silently for snacks.
3 Ashimmering, shifting cloud of psychedelic colors and patterns. Soft, trilling music accompanies the image.
4 A man playing a strange instrument resembling a hy- brid of keyboard and bagpipes. Atonal music accom- panies the image.
5 A hyperactive collage of explosions, cosmic images, colorful alien creatures, and more. Loud noises and ex- cited chatter accompany the collage. This is the holo- graphic equivalent of children’s media entertainment.
6 A police robot patrolling back and forth along an 8-foot path. The image is silent.
The projections are not nearly as lifelike as the holographic disguise and a DC 11 Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) check notices the projections are semi- transparent. The projections are holographic light and sol- id objects pass through them, revealing their true nature.
LANGUAGE TRANSLATOR
Complexity: Moderate Range: 60 feet Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/10 minutes
Use Handout #78. This is a club- or hatchet-shaped de- vice with a metal dish on one end where the blade should be. Across the back are two colored plates: red and blue. Above these is a fine metal net, set in the handle. In the butt is a fine crack going all around the handle.
The red button is for receiving—there will be a 1-minute delay for first analysis of a foreign tongue—and the blue button is pushed for transmitting. A pull on the base opens the power disc compartment. The translation will analyze the closest/loudest speaker in its range, translat- ing the spoken language into the uset’s native language and transmitting the spoken language of the user into the native tongue of the listener. The translator has no effect on written language.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
LASER DRILL
Complexity: Moderate Range: 6 inches Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/minute
This device is an oblong matte black oval with a tapered end on one side. A short rod extends from the side of the oval and bears a small angled protrusion. A coin-sized stud is visible at the end of the oval opposite its tapered end and a narrow seam runs across the width of the oval.
Pressing the coin-sized stud causes the rear section of the drill to snap open, revealing the device’s power disc housing assembly inside.
Holding the object by the short rod and placing pres- sure on the angled protrusion (in truth, a smalllever inset into the drill’s handle) causes a dark, fan-shaped, 6-inch- tall, 8-inch-wide piece of horn-like material to spring out from the seam on the top of the drill. This is an integral protective eye shield that prevents the user from being blinded by the drill’s beam when in use.
If the lever is squeezed again, a cutting beam with an effective range of 6 inches is projected out of the drill’s tapered end. This beam will cut through 1 inch of ship’s metal (including plasteel) in a 1/10th- to 1-inch diameter hole in 1 minute with 1 charge.
A creature looking directly at the drill’s beam must suc- ceed ona DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for 1 minute. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condi- tion on itself on a success.
The drill is not an effective ranged weapon, but if a crea- ture’s body is exposed to the cutting beam, they must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d6 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
PORTABLE SPOTLIGHT
Complexity: Difficult
Range: 360 feet
Area of Effect: 10-foot-diameter beam Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/10 minutes
Use Handout #79. When closed, the spot forms a 1-foot cube and weighs about 10 pounds. It is open at one end and has a recessed grip in the top. Inside may be seen an “X” formed by jointed rods, a box with a wheel and two rivets on it, and a coil of smooth, oily-appearing rope.
The other end holds a round glass panel, raised slightly, set in the surface of the box.
When opened, the rods will telescope out to form a stand for the spot. The head section will extend up to 8 feet high. Each leg has clamped to it a spike and a smooth leather patch (an adhesive patch) and ends in a side of the box. The black rope (a 10-foot cable) connects the detachable control box to the spot. The wheel controls elevation/depression/rotation, one button is the on/off control, and the second button activates magnetic clamps. A slot in the side of the control box holds a power disc.
When active, the spotlight illuminates anything in its beam with bright light. It has a special polarizing lens that makes darkvision more effective. Turning the wheel on its control panel a quarter turn will change the nature of the illumination. The spotlight no longer produces bright light, but any creature with darkvision has its range dou- bled when attempting to see anything within the spot- light’s illumination area.
POWER DISC
Complexity: Simple
This is a blue colored glass or slate disc the size of a coin. One side is smooth and unmarked, the other side has a white, arced band, marked like a sundial with five lines. A taut thread rests on one of the lines (or at either end, depending on the charge). These discs are designed to be fitted into the various slots and holders of the weapons and equipment.
Power discs are energy storage units or batteries which were used to power the various devices on the ship. A fully charged power disc holds 6 charges and the needle of the gauge will be all the way to the right, if not mal- functioning. Power discs found in ship stores will nor- mally be fully charged, but the charges of those found scattered about the ship should be determined randomly
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
by rolling 1d6. Power discs may be inserted either side up when installed in a device. Different devices will have dif- ferent rates of power use and this is noted under each de- vice’s Power Disc Drain. It requires 2 rounds to change the power disc in a device once it is discovered how to make the change.
POWERED ARMOR
Complexity: Extraordinary
Armor Class: 20
Force Shield: Absorbs 50 damage (see below) Hit Points: 50 (immune to psychic damage) Strength Augmentation: See below
Use Handout #80. Powered armor looks like a suit of unusual plate armor. The joints appear to be finely, if somewhat strangely, articulated and an oily, black, leath- er-like material may be seen at major joints. The armor appears to have been worked to create the illusion of a heavily muscled man. The great helm is unusual in that it has no openings, only a broad glass plate in the front with a piece of glass above this. There are strange plates and tubing at various points and large metal bosses seem to be placed randomly on the suit. On the back of the right hand is a rectangular metal box. From this comes a short projecting rod tipped with a cone-shaped red crystal or jewel. It would seem there must be a man inside, for the armor always stands erect although unmoving.
The armor is opened by pressing two separate buttons concealed at the rear of the helmet beneath its lip. Press- ing both buttons at the same time will pop open a seal down the middle of the back of the armor. A person may then climb into the armor, feet first, double over, and then slip his or her head and arms into the suit. Then, by arching his or her back, the armor will reseal itself. The release catches may be reached while wearing the suit, but it will take an action to operate.
Powered armor is completely sealed and will withstand vacuum or pressure equal to 1,000 feet of water. An air system provides oxygen for 8 hours of continuous use, recharging at 1 hour per hour of non-use. No gases or viral contaminants can enter the suit.
The wearet’s Strength is augmented; treat as having a Strength of 20 for the purposes of lifting or dragging weight. This increase does not apply to attacks or other Strength-based uses. The wearer can jump up to 10 feet in any direction without the need to make an ability check.
The armor is surrounded by a force shield which acts as 50 temporary hit points. All damage suffered by the wearer is deducted from these temporary hit points first. When the force shield is at 0, damage sustained is taken by the armor itself. When the armor reaches 0 it is non- functional in all systems. Damage accruing beyond that point goes to the person inside. The force shield regener- ates to full power after the wearer takes a short rest.
The anti-grav system in the armor allows the wearer to become weightless and to levitate upwards or downwards at a speed of 20 feet per round. The wearer can carry up to 500 additional pounds of weight when so doing. Anti-grav will function for 1 hour, or 30 minutes if carry- ing additional weight, of continuous operation. For each round of operation it must recharge 10 minutes. When power is down to 10 minutes of operation the suit will issue a low pinging sound, and a small orange panel will light up; pinging will recur every round thereafter, and the panel light will flash during the last round of opera- tion before the power fails. The armor will immediately fall, but a small reserve charge will prevent injury to the wearer, although the powered armor itself will sustain damage equal to 50% of its remaining hit points.
Powered armor has built-in atmosphere analysis equip- ment with a readout panel above the vision area; it also has built-in language translators. Hearing in the armor is 200% human normal, granting the wearer advantage on all audial-based Wisdom (Perception) checks. The armor also grants the wearer darkvision to a range of 120 feet.
The wearer of the suit does not become fatigued as nor- mal and is immune to exhaustion from ordinary sources. Continuous operation for periods of as long as 8 hours is possible. Powered armor does not use power discs. It is only rechargeable at specialized terminals. None of these terminals exist on this part of the ship.
For weaponry, the suit has a laser pistol built into the right arm of the armor above the hand. The pistol fires when a chin lever is triggered—all specs are the same as a normal laser pistol (see above).
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
POWERED EXOSKELETON
Complexity: Difficult
Power Disc Drain: 1/2 charge/hour or 1 charge/hour (see below)
Strength Augmentation: See below
This appears to be some sort of articulated metal re- straint comprised of a number of interlocking and jointed metal braces and supports. They are arranged in a manner capable of encasing an average-sized human from shoulders to feet in a “cage” of widely-spaced bars. The bars extend to include the arms and wrists, and have a pair of heavy cloth-like gloves attached to the ends of the arm pieces. A plate-sized circular protrusion is set into the restraints at a point that would cover the chest of any victim imprisoned in the restraints. A coin-sized dial with three white notches set in an arc above it rises from the center of the chest plate.
Despite this device’s fearsome appearance, it is actually a powered exoskeleton that amplifies the wearer’s Strength. Any humanoid between 5 % and 6 feet in height and weighing no more than 220 pounds can utilize the pow- ered exoskeleton. The device has many articulated parts and flexible joints, allowing the wearer to move freely when it is activated. In an unpowered state, the exoskel- eton is cumbersome and slows the wearer to half its normal movement rate and imparts disadvantage on all Dexterity checks and saving throws.
No armor heavier than studded leather can be worn at the same time as the exoskeleton.
Turning the chest plate dial to the wearer’s right acti- vates the exoskeleton. When turned to the middle of the three notches, it grants the wearer a Strength of 20 and consumes 1/2 charge per hour of use. When the dial is turned all the way to the right, the exoskeleton increases the wearer’s Strength to 22 and consumes 1 charge per hour of use. If the dial is turned all the way to the wear- er’s left, the exoskeleton powers down allowing for the wearer to take it off. Treat the exoskeleton as medium ar- mor when determining how long it takes to don or doff the device (see Player’s Handbook p. 146).
Unfortunately, the exoskeleton has not been well-main- tained and may potentially break down. Anytime the wearer rolls a 1 on any Strength-related skill check, saving throw, or attack roll, the exoskeleton locks up, incapaci- tating the wearer. The wearer can escape as if grappled (escape DC 12) but the exoskeleton is permanently fused into position, making it useless.
REPAIR ROBOT REMOTE CONTROL BOX
Complexity: Moderate Range: 180 feet
This appears to be a brown metal box about the size of a tinderbox (3 inches by 5 inches), with violet labels. When the hinged cover is lifted inside a panel of white horn- like material will be seen. In the center of the panel is set a metal mesh screen the size of a coin, while in the upper right corner is set a small blue gem. At the base of this screen a black square is set.
This device is used to summon one worker robot (see appendix B) within range to the immediate vicinity of the holder. The ship’s computer moderates which robot will respond if more than one is within range, or else the closest one will respond. By pressing the black square the device is activated and a worker will arrive within 10 min- utes if any are available. Once a worker robot has arrived it may be given verbal commands if someone depresses the black button and speaks into the metal grid in a lan- guage the robot can comprehend. The back panel may be removed and a cradle for a power disc may be found.
This device has its own store of power but for each 10 minutes of operation there is a cumulative chance that the power pack will drain, causing the blue light to flash. Roll 1d20 for every 10 minutes the device is in opera~ tion. If the result is equal to or less than that number of 10-minute increments, the power pack drains and the blue light begins flashing. The remote goes dead 10 min- utes later. Once dead, the control box is useless unless recharged at the robot recharging station (see Level II, area 4).
SHIP’S RATIONS
Complexity: Simple
Whatever the shape of the rations, the container (tray, envelope, or cylinder) is a silvery package made of some flexible material like oiled skins. At one end of the pack- age is a small colored ring, and attached to one side is a strange implement that looks like a spoon with serrated edges and a hollow handle.
The small rings, once pulled, create chemical reactions which cause the package contents to be heated, chilled, or rehydrated. Each container may be opened by locating a black tab on the end opposite the ring and tearing back the lid. The rings are color coded: red - heat, white - chill,
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
and blue - rehydrate. The plastic spork may be used to cut food and eat it or the hollow handle may be used as a straw. Possible contents of a rations pack are: protein stews, cero-porridges, nutrient drinks, surrogate steaks, vegetable substitutes, and vita-bars.
Each ration pack equals one meal for one person.
UNDERWATER SWIMMING GEAR
Complexity: Difficult
Armor Class: 12 + Dex modifier
Move: Swim 30 ft. or swim 60 ft. for 6 rounds with gas jets
Power Disc Drain: 1 charge/15 minutes
Use Handout #30. This appears to be a bizarre set of armor. The armor consists of a padded undersuit of an odd, black, leather-like material. The padded suit is reinforced with plate armor at the knees, elbows, and shoulder. Over the padded armor is worn a very weighty girdle and loin protectors. Across the chest is worn an odd breastplate with a box attached to it, while the back half bears a strangely shaped pack. The helmet seems impractical, a bubble-shaped sphere mounted on a flex- ible neck piece made of the same material as the suit. The helmet is attached to the breast box by several cords. Lastly, there are a pair of slippers with elongated, ribbed toes, about 2 feet long.
This is a set of underwater diving gear with a wetsuit, breathing apparatus set in the front chest plate, and a propulsion device housed in the backpack. The breathing apparatus is a rebreather attached to the helmet by way of the tubes. It is turned on by pressing the right button on the front of the box and shut off by pushing the left button. The front of this housing may be detached, re- vealing cradles for two power discs. The breathing appa- ratus will function for 90 minutes and then a buzzing will sound to indicate that 30 minutes of time remain before the pack must be recharged.
The propulsion device is operated by the lever trigger to the left of the buttons on the chest box. This consists of a gas jet that will propel the wearer under water at a speed of 60 feet for 6 rounds before becoming useless. If used on the surface, it will cause an uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after 1 round of hopping and then turned back on. It cannot be recharged.
The swim fins are independent from the rest of the suit. When in water they will react to the swimmer’s motions and expand into 8-inch-wide fins.
The suit may be used like a gas mask (see above) while the breathing apparatus functions, making the wearer im- pervious to gas.
WOUND HEALING CANISTER Complexity: Simple
Uses: 6 maximum
Use Handout #81. Wound healing canisters appear as smooth, featureless gourds. They are indented on one side to fashion a grip, flat on the bottom, and have a small neck curving out of the other end. This neck ends in a hole. On the back of the neck is a rivet. On the flat bottom is a sundial pattern with a hair marking a line on the pattern.
Pressing the button (the rivet on the neck of the gourd) allows a directional spray from the nozzle (the hole). This spray will heal 2d12 points of damage and cure any disease, infection, or spore infestation on the skin. A full canister contains 6 charges; the dial on the bottom shows the number of charges remaining. One spray uses 1 charge.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
APPENDIX D
Characters
he following listing of characters may be used to
form a party for tournament or regular play. Alterna-
tively, players may wish to use their own characters. Expedition to the Barrier Peaks was designed for a large par- ty of characters of moderate to high level. The suggested party size is four to eight characters with most having levels between 5 and 10. Smaller parties may adventure in this scenario but party levels should be increased accordingly, though never ex- ceeding an average level of 12th. All characters should have at least two or three useful magic items.
If there are too few player characters to form a suitable party, the Dungeon Master may opt to include some of the characters listed below as nonplayer characters or
each player may handle multiple characters. It is suggest- ed that players be allowed no more than two characters each. They may find it difficult to manage more than this number and may not be able to identify with such “in- stant” characters.
Novice players may find it necessary to have characters no lower than 7th level with an average level of 9th in the party. Novice players should also be allowed another magic item per character such as two to four spell scrolls with spells of 3rd level or less, a potion (no ai/ of ethereal- ness), or a ring of protection. Fighter characters should be allowed a +7 or +2 weapon (with no special powers) if they do not already have one. If the DM does not think the players are capable of handling multiple characters, NPCs should be used to round out the party.
AGAINST THE VENOMOUS WARLORD CHARACTERS
The final six characters in this appendix are VR avatars used if the party plays through the “Against the Venomous Warlord!” video game in the spaceship’s Rec Area (area 38 in Level I; see appendix A). The first player to activate the game pod gets first choice of characters, but the DM should only describe the physical appearance of the available avatat(s). Their stats are available to the choosing player only after an avatar is selected and they appear in the game.
Note that these heroes were created by a human-like race ftom another world and are based on their own myths, stories, and known alien races. What is provided is the best attempt to translate these alien creatures and cultures— computer-generated as they are—into Dungeons & Dragons stats. The DM is encouraged to alter, embellish, or oth- erwise engage in flights of fancy when describing these virtual characters and the environment in which they exist.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name Bruk of the East Raven Edrik Halfhand
Sex Male Female Male Race Human Human Human Level (HD) 12 (12d10) 7 7d10) 6 (6d10) Class Fighter Fighter Ranger Archetype Champion Battle Master Hunter Background Soldier Folk Hero Hermit Alignment Neutral Chaotic Good Neutral AC 23 19 17 Initiative +4 tal ei Speed 30 ft. 30 ft. 30 ft. Prof. Bonus +4 a6) 163)
Hit Points 112 67 52 Strength 17 (+3) 16 (+3) 17 (+3) Dexterity 15 (+2) 12 (+1) 15 (+2) Constitution 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 15 (+2) Intelligence 14 (+2) 13 (+1) 12 (+1) Wisdom 12 (+1) 14 (+2) 14 (+2) Charisma 16 (+3) 13 (+1) 12 (+1)
Skills / Proficiencies Athletics +7, Intimidation Animal Handling +5, Insight Medicine +5, Nature +4, +7, Perception +5, Survival + 5, Perception +5, Survival Religion +4, Stealth +5, Sur- +5, Dice set +4, Vehicles +5, Calligrapher’s supplies vival +5, Herbalism kit +3
(land) +4 +3, Carpenter's tools +3, Vehicles (land) +3 Race / Class / Ar- Fighting Style (Archery, Fighting Style (Defense), Favored Enemy (Aberra- chetype Specials Dueling) Maneuvers (Maneuver save _ tions, Monstrosities), Natural
DC 14; Superiority dice 5; Explorer (Forest, Mountain),
Commander’s Strike, Men- _ Fighting Style (Iwo-weapon
acing Attack, Parry, Rally, Fighting), Spellcasting (Spell
Sweeping Attack) save DC 13; Spell attack modifier +5; Spells known 4; Spell slots 4/2), Hunter’s Prey (Colossus Slayer)
Armor +2 splint, +2 shield +1 chain shirt, +1 shield +1 breastplate Weapons +2 battleaxe, longsword, Flame tongue longsword, +7 spear, shortbow, shortbow shortsword, dagger, light longsword, dagger crossbow Magic Items Ring of resistance (fire) Scroll of protection (plants) None
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class / Ar- chetype Specials
Armor Weapons
Magic Items
Larissa the Wild Scion
Female Human 5 (5d10) Fighter Champion Noble Chaotic Neutral 18 cia 30 ft. ae) 49 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 7 (+3) 12 (+1) 0 (+0) 10 (+0) Athletics +8, History +4, Persuasion +3, Perception +3, Dragonchess set +3
Fighting Style (Archery)
Chain shirt, +7 shield Javelin of lightning, battleaxe, javelins (4), dagger
None
Reldus of the Sacred Green
Male
Half-Elf
4 (4d 10)
Paladin
Oath of the Ancients Outlander
Lawful Good
18
Athletics +4, Intimidation +5, Perception +2, Persua- sion +5, Religion +3, Sur- vival +2, Musical instrument (harp) +2
Fighting Style (Dueling), Lay on Hands (20 points), Spellcasting (Spell save DC 13; Spell attack modifier +5; Spell slots 3)
Breastplate, shield
Dancing longsword
None
Gudren Knee-Breaker
Female
Hill Dwarf
8 (8d12) Barbarian Path of the Berserker Outlander Neutral
18
+1 (advantage) 35 ft.
68
resi
4 (+2) 13 (+1) 12 (+1) 12 (+1) Athletics +7, Intimidation +4, Perception +4, Survival +4, Brewer's supplies +3, Musical instrument (drum)
Frenzy, Mindless Rage
+3 shield
+2 warhammer, battleaxe, throwing hammers (2) None
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class / Ar- chetype Specials
Armor Weapons
Magic Items
Kime, Master of High Mysteries
Male
Human
11 (11d6)
Wizard
School of Evocation Sage
Neutral
12
+2
30 ft.
+4
79
10 (+0)
15 (+2)
16 (+3)
18 (+4)
14 (+2)
14 (+2)
Arcana +8, History +8, In- vestigation +8, Medicine +6
Spellcasting (Spell save DC 16; Spell attack modifier +8; Cantrips known 5; Spell- book of 26 spells; Spell slots 4/3/3/3/2/1)
None +2 dagger, daggers (2), sling
Boots of levitation, gem of seeing, wand of fireballs
Wyrd Frekka
Female
Human
5 (5d8)
Warlock
The Archfey
Charlatan
Neutral
11 (13 with mage armor)
Sil
30 ft.
3)
43
11 (+0)
13 (+1)
17 (+3)
11 (+0)
13 (+1)
15 (+2)
Deception +5, Intimidation +5, Religion +3, Sleight of Hand +4, Disguise kit +3, Forgery kit +3
Pact Magic (Spell save DC 13; Spell attack modifier +5; Cantrips known 3; Spells known 6; Spell slots 2; Slot level 3rd), Eldritch Invo- cations (Agonizing Blast, Armor of Shadows, Eyes of the Rune Keeper), Pact of the Tome
Mage armor Spear, daggers (2), light crossbow
Réing of invisibility, potion of clairveyance, spell scrolls of com- prehend languages, expeditions retreat, and unseen servant
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
A’Nalkin the Unpredict- able
Male
Drow Elf
6/6 (6d10/6d6) Fighter/Sorcerer
Battle Master/Wild Magic Urchin
Neutral
17
a5)
30 ft.
+4
86
15 (+2)
17 (+3)
14 (42)
16 (+3)
14 (+2)
17 (+3)
Arcana +7, Perception +6, Persuasion +7, Sleight of Hand +7, Stealth +7, Alche- mist’s supplies +4, Disguise kit +4, Thieves’ tools +4 Drow magic (dancing lights cantrip, faerie fire 1/day, dark- ness 1/day), Fighting Style (Dueling), Maneuvers (Ma- neuver save DC 15; Superi- ority dice 4; Lunging Attack, Parry, Riposte), Spellcasting (Spell save DC 15; Spell attack modifier +7; Sorcery points 6; Cantrips known 5; Spells known 7; Spell slots 4/3/3), Metamagic (Careful Spell, Empowered Spell) Chain shirt, shield
+1 longsword, hand crossbow, shortsword, dagger
Spell scrolls of sleep, suggestion, and ¢hunderwave; +2 bolts (10), potion of growth
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class / Ar- chetype Specials
Armor Weapons
Magic Items
Sister Sledge
Female
Human
10 (10d8)
Cleric
War Domain
Acolyte
Lawful Good
18
+2
30 ft.
+4
63
12 (+1)
14 (+2)
12 (+1)
11 (+0)
18 (+4)
15 (+2)
History +4, Insight +8, Medicine +8, Religion +4
Spellcasting (Spell save DC 16; Spell attack modifier +8; Cantrips known 5; Spell slots 4/3/3/3/2)
Half plate, ring of protection
+2 mace
Staff of striking
Lindarfin Lightbreeze
Male
Wood Elf
6 (6d8)
Cleric
Life Domain
Folk Hero
Lawful Good
14
spill
35 ft
3:
51
14 (+2)
12 (+1)
17 (+3)
11 (+0)
17 (+3)
10 (+0)
Animal Handling +6, His- tory +3, Medicine +6, Perception +6, Survival +6, Alchemist’s supplies +3, Vehicles (land) +3 Spellcasting (Spell save DC 14; Spell attack modifier +6; Cantrips known 4; Spell slots 4/3/3)
Chain shirt
Quarterstaff, mace, short- bow
Rope of entanglement, potion of superior healing
Siobhan of the Thunder Mountains
Female
Human
7 (7d8)
Druid
Circle of the Land (Mountain) Hermit
Neutral
16
+2
30 ft.
+3
59
14 (+2)
14 (+2)
16 (+3)
14 (+2)
15 (+2)
15 (+2)
Medicine +5, Nature +5, Perception +5, Religion +5, Herbalism kit +3
Spellcasting (Spell save DC 13; Spell attack modifier +5; Cantrips known 4; Spell slots 4/3/3/1)
Studded leather, wooden shield
+2 scimitar, sickle, javelins (2)
Cloak of elvenkind, ring of free
action
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class / Ar- chetype Specials
Armor Weapons
Magic Items
“The Red Wyvern” Male
Human
10 (10d8)
Bard
College of Lore Entertainer
Neutral
16
+5
30 ft.
+4
63
10 (+0)
17 (+3) 12 (+1) 11 (+0) 14 (+2)
16 (+3)
Acrobatics +7, Deception* +11, History* +8, Insight +6, Performance +7, Per- suasion* +11, Sleight of Hand +7, Stealth* +11, Disguise kit +4, Musical instruments (drum, flute, horn, lute) +4 (* denotes Expertise) Spellcasting (Spell save
DC 15; Spell attack modi- fier +7; Cantrips known 4; Spells known 14; Spell slots 4/3/3/3/2); Bonus spells 2 (from any list)
Studded leather, cloak of protection
+2 longsword, dagger, hand
crossbow
Bag of holding
Wilhelmina Waywocket Female
Lightfoot Halfling
9 (9d8)
Rogue
Thief
Urchin
Chaotic Neutral
16
+4
25 ft.
+4
35
12 (+1)
18 (+4)
16 (+3)
15 (+2)
8-1)
14 (+2)
Acrobatics +8, Athletics +5. Investigation* +10, Percep- tion* +7, Sleight of Hand +8, Stealth* +12, Disguise kit +4, Thieves’ tools* +8 (* denotes Expertise)
Studded leather
+2 dagger, +1 daggers (2), shortbow, shortsword Rope of climbing
Karaz Male Half-Orc
5 (5d8) Rogue Assassin Criminal Lawful Evil 15
Athletics +5, Deception +4, Intimidation +4, Insight +3, Perception* +6, Persuasion +4, Stealth* +9, Dice set +3, Disguise kit +3, Poisoner’s kit +3, Thieves’ tools +3 (* denotes Expertise)
Studded leather
+1 rapier, daggers (3), great- club, shortbow Oil of slipperiness
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class Spe- cials
Armor
Weapons Equipment Description
The Silicon Knight
Male
Dragonborn-like
2 (2410)
Paladin
None
Noble
As controlling character’s 17
Fall
30 ft.
aE
18
17 (+3)
12 (+1)
13 (41)
8 (-1)
10 (+0)
15 (+2)
Athletics +5, History +1, Intimidation +4, Persuasion +4, Playing card set +2 Breath Weapon (Silicon Spray; blast of glass in 5 by 30 ft. line; DC 11 Dex save, 2d6 slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one; 1/rest), Fighting Style (Protection), Lay on Hands (10 points), Spellcasting (Spell save DC 12; Spell attack modifier +4;
Spell slots 2; Spells prepared:
compelled duel, heroism, thunder- ous smite)
Scale mail (equivalent), shield
Longsword, spear
Holy symbol, playing card set A humanoid figure made from living crystal and encased in glass-like armor as hard as steel. The Silicon Knight bears a glittering longsword and can breathe a blast of razor-sharp glass fragments at foes.
Chimee of Psychicia Female
High Elf-like
2 (2d6)
Sorcerer
Wild Magic
Hermit
As controlling character’s
11 (14 with mage armor)
Feil
30 ft.
+2
14
8 (1)
13 (+1)
14 (+2)
11 (+0)
12 (+1)
15 (+2)
Arcana +2, Insight +3, Medicine +3, Perception +3, Religion +2, Herbalism kit +2 Cantrip (psychic strike [as ray of frosf|; Spell attack modifier +2); Spellcasting (Spell save DC 12; Spell attack modi- fier +4; Sorcery points 2; Cantrips known 4 [acid splash, blade ward, fire bolt, true strike; Spells known 3 [mage armor, magic missile, thunderwave]; Spell slots 3)
None
Daggers (2), light crossbow Arcane focus, herbalism kit A lithe feminine humanoid with blue skin and scintillat- ing eyes. She is dressed in a flowing garment that shifts colors in kaleidoscopic fash- ion. Her spells are created by the power of her mind.
Comet-Rider
Male
Human-like
2 (2d10)
Fighter
None
Soldier
As controlling character's 17
13 (+1) Acrobatics +4, Athletics +5, Intimidation +3, Perception +1, Dice set +2
Fighting Style (Dueling)
Chain shirt (equivalent), shield
Fail, scimitar, javelins (3) Potion of healing, dice set
A humanoid male with dark complexion and hair dressed in fiery red chain mail and bearing a star-shaped shield. He wields a flail made from asteroid fragments.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Name
Sex
Race
Level (HD) Class Archetype Background Alignment AC Initiative Speed
Prof. Bonus Hit Points Strength Dexterity Constitution Intelligence Wisdom Charisma Skills / Proficiencies
Race / Class Spe- cials
Armor Weapons Equipment
Description
Klick-Hlack of the Hive- mind
None
Forest Gnome-like
2 (2d8)
Cleric
Life Domain
Acolyte
As controlling character’s 15
al
25 ft.
ates
leg
13 (+1)
13 (+1)
14 (+2)
10 (+0)
17 (+3)
8 (-1)
Insight +5, Medicine +5, Persuasion +1, Religion +2
Cantrip (minor illusion; Spell save DC 10); Spellcasting (Spell save DC 13; Spell at- tack modifier +5; Cantrips known 3 [guidance, resistance, spare the dying]; Spell slots 3; Spells prepared: bless, com- mand, cure wounds, guiding bolt, protection from evil and good, sanctuary, shield of faith) Scale mail (equivalent) Quarterstaff, sling
Holy symbol
A Small insectile creature with iridescent blue exoskel- eton and six limbs. Klick-
Klack draws upon the Great Hivemind to preserve life and defeat evil.
Emultan Fast-Fist
Male
Human-like
2 (248)
Monk
None
Urchin
As controlling character's 15
25
40 ft.
ard
17
13 (41)
16 (+3)
14 (+2)
11 (+0)
15 (+2)
9 (-1)
Acrobatics +5, Athletics +3, Sleight of Hand +5, Stealth +5, Disguise kit +2, Thieves’ tools +2, Weaver’s tools +2
Ki (Ki points 2; Ki save DC 12)
None
Shortsword, darts (10) Disguise kit, thieves’ tools, weaver’s tools
A short human dressed in skin-tight, dark garments and soft-sole shoes, Emul- tan Fast-Fist was trained in the art of stealth and deadly hand-to-hand combat.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE
Cosmosetta of the Dark Nova
Female
Drow Elf-like
2 (2d10)
Rogue
None
Sailor (Pirate)
As controlling charactet’s 15
2
30 ft. a2
15
13 (41 16 (43 12 (41 10 (+0 8 (-1) 16 (43)
Acrobatics +5, Athletics +3, Deception +5, Intimidation +5, Perception +3*, Stealth +5, Navigator’s tools +2, Vehicles (space) +2, Thieves’ tools +4* (* denotes Exper- tise)
) ) ) )
Studded leather (equivalent) Rapier, hand crossbow Navigator's tools, thieves’ tools
A stunningly beautiful fe- male humanoid, Cosmosetta hails from the Dark Nova,
a hotbed for pirates and mercenaries. She dresses in impact armor and wields a force rapier in battle.
BARRIER PEAKS
APPENDIX E
Handouts
‘Tae appendix contains the handouts for the fifth edition
ion of the adventure. The collection features brand-
new illustrations along with those from the original versions. All have been renumbered—please take care and don’t confuse them with the reprints in chapter 2.
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ey ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS és)
<
SSS MUNIN
ey ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARIIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
nian # WAAPA AAA SMA L4¢° AVA A04 NIMAL¢° IN ALN 4 NAVA: C9 >
WM ARTA BIMA\:20 4 VAR AMAL: o&f\o ARZPV LAAV BS
Z LDHAA MAE A”
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Y
m x
Bs ¢ l
an
Gat) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED
eX ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
350 ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS yo : x
ae
Est) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Wi
—=—S
Mu
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS eX
W
Pra wes
aunt n__U oF ws Ss es —< : “4: < ‘s . &S
oe ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS pi o x
oe ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
onicinat ‘ADVENTURES REINCARMATED . “EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED ¢ EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS So
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS Kia)
Est) ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
IY M A We
N SSS >” Ne RS SS ee SS SB oss mS SA = 40 a wa SK > os = SS
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS eX
. : Ni a | vant nana
Giie\. \e\)
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e
a 0 1
A
LITNTTNTALTTT TERT SLOT UMATHONTTTE TCT
ntl} LG 2 enn hee
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS eX
o. ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
‘)
e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED
“Tl
my
H
(Cus py F sa NE + :
oT cartel Em Se ee a
= ONSCR OR On mo MARSA Cc p ZOR YY SRE NG! :)
Sy
] | (i f ll
ey ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ijn AMLLCHCUTE < i
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED » EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ls Wey N Mts ah ios ‘ : W Jova Ny ‘ . t eg " a >, ge { =3 \ Kr), ray pe A SOK’ a Ws fi U} i UU, ay Mr 4 [alee SS Reo
20 —————
Mis) 7 [omy ae i lm _f
eX ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
t
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS or
ial TSS OS ; syialllp j UT? y,
) Jem
eX ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS x o x
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS én)
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
APPENDIX F
here are many maps of the spaceship and its nearby environs in this book. Each is included in the preceding chapters near their encounter descriptions, and they are also collected here in this appendix for ease of use by the Dungeon Master.
What is it like to work on a legend? Gary Gygax made this book possible, but Michael Curtis and Tim Wadzinski actually made it happen. Mike (right) and Tim (left) are shown here at Gary Con XI (March 2019 in Lake Geneva, WI) at the What’s New With Goodman Games seminar, where this project was first announced. As you reach these final pages in the book, dear reader, we thank you for making this project possible. It’s an honor to be able to con- tinue to expand on the fundamental building blocks of the hobby originally established by Mr. Gygax and company!
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
=
SSS
ji; iim hy “elit, Wiz
SOLIDE DP
ROSS SECTION O
F THE SHIP
LEVEL I
LEVEL Il
LEVEL IV
LEVEL V
SUB-LEVELV |7
Officials’, officers’, and technicians’ quarters V 0 Upper walkway and lounge area
Level IV: Botanical gardens, rookery, and menagerie Level V: Service deck 6, or garden ‘tween decks Sub-level V: Atmospheric ballast* Level VI: Theater, athletic, and activity deck Level VII: Biological manufacturing and colonization storage holds “This level is inaccessible unless by some magical means
LY jfjor Eo Sf gecges A
IO
Yj
Yj
Wr WO Le
Mie) =e
LEVEL vil
Wy Vsisataa by eiintioe Viti eeennnaradyy iY
My emer WNW iziquaricanuiinuyew lita MY) ad My
Drop Chutes
Spiral Staircase
z 3 3 a
c #
fozza| Observartory
EI Underwater
YU ' BO)
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMNCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
9
an ap TTT)
ny
SS)
LEVEL I SS. SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET
See
DROP TUBE
Z
ON/OFF LIT AREA
[v] VIOLET CARD DOOR [o] ORANGE CARD DOOR
YELLOW CARD DOOR
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
GRAY CARD DOOR
‘ RED LGARD DOOR Hp, 4
iccmtnnctocv ii misrrenicdioatiay
ORIGiMAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
oN SWAT,
SSSI
LEVEL Il
ALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET .\ 2 | gomim,S
PILLARS
SPHINCTER
} }
HOLE IN DECK VN
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
SSS A ae
LEVEL III
SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET /,\)
D>, f r CD Agha tp HOLE IN CEILING r |
ON/OFF LIT AREA
¢
LIFT BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
SSS SSNS
y x i BROWN CARD DOOR FOLIAGE Zo ee] DIMLY LITAREA ~~ fe lv] VIOLET CARD DOOR /1@ | nes CJ UNLIT AREA “22354 raaeresisuif ium Ne) oe CLL. Vane tte }: b ry
A,
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Yj, LEVEL Iv
Se Sa
a.
a litt Mi dM — ss Mt unait a,
YING ys
LIFT
FENCE
i” ee
nao
Heeb stondce
2 Remy
y CUTE
ON/OFF LIT AREA “UMMM
BRIGHTLY LITAREA
DIMLY LIT AREA
UNLIT AREA
\ = eX ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS on
TKO
[+] PILLARS
LIFT f 3 : Me ss SPHINCTER j
WATER
onicinaL ADVENTURES REICARH ATED
< Cn Pe
Br, SR SSS SSSR
“LEVEL VI
Y Q> pe
Aw , SS HAN
ry ~* A \ < Nw : SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET 4 = te - tet} v ae — > 7 cd i CCC N Clit cn I TTT y 3 ina t |
g
2a ym Ye ne Ses)
\
mr Ke VIOLET CARD DOOR A ; Hi b, [s] GRAY CARD DOOR
% \\\y E] STAIRS : [_t ]tocker 2 wy
Xow
SSNS
Bit. ee oT SRR NI
yy)
wee
~™ LEVEL VII i SCALE: 1 SQUARE = 10 FEET, ¥ \ ss Boi e \= E mY SSS 8S & & TT tad ; snes
Ir iy ern Ny Lu) Mn Wnty
es A\ a
RT A 4 BES UN
ute
e : PUDDING Wy INTERMITTENT { f LIGHT AREA ; ia Renveumnvoen Ae aes ayn * Math ire.
ih Cnn ccecerinutiirg ype stor Om a
— 7 hy ana rT Shuuee e Ti ” (is Ie lug i Cine A y
alsa ows “and of) ity,
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS iS a 4
Ni
iT Li ih LM rear sa Wie MK (it Tt
q "
I
Cee AA
, ?
”
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e
Mapp tk )
_— oe pe KN NW PRLASSGISNEG ww) \ y ee _i nw = BA LN LT ae an . yp Pi goa 0 igh NR NF_?
>, "wpe ig (NG NG, f\% s a 50) FO WY Cel SA SS w]e " ef ge YY —(, Byd” ZL e SI vy! RiKy A Ere wrey i> ay’ \eMPeR /
7 suosaug
a
Yi)
S ysDI) x,
‘Oy
d 4 y
al
4 ian i iy; NG I et ae op UY LAD "7 Y YY My yj A SY gt Y Vy A od ~ Paty? LZ vs fess “ yi ‘Quail || 3 OREN ZZ oe Hb oa ~ Dias 5 y) hp yrzaa y\\ ee : i aS y A WA Yi
I dvW
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Wy ti,
: yy Yb i Ly, Fl ae. oka OEY ig Wy. Z UM SZ ONE N Awol 2009 ysZV/
vg Va SS
sjuewBery @
Dy 4
peop aunseasy 2
ayuBeyers OeIUy
«dung, eyubeers 2 Si ANS y woz LC] SN) a S) * 4107 s,uobvid Bs yy Zdvn f WV Bw = ES hye s 5 Siar S\N yopduy yresg Gui
S Jo wu:
Y)
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
y Z
Ul enn rce r ff MAP 3 / “’§tone Giant Lair q
4
@ Stone Brazier >” ig Giant Corpse } Cl on Furs Palisade Moveable
Section of Palisade
Piled Boulders
eS SS
Aver
SS NAN
\\
SSMS
WAH
NVQUIN
Ww
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
Y
SPW
YG. Oy snousuen MA ueBsow WI dp sues euosu, be Buoy yseyn @ Jel
s]eq UO sey
J2IeM MONEYS
Tass Wes'sss8
snBeydoaies
=
yuawysedwog 38199
apelg wininpuad +»
Ss
400q pay907
Ss
ae 3
> iPsOpAoy
b dv
yy Yi
i, YN 7 pe Ces
& ays sui
phy yyy,
iy a
ce )Y) a
Wy
jp Wy OY) WHT)
vs, hp UY i jy) P pyre) Uy Uap w) ff \. i
\\
(AVM TM
WA TANNOL aNnO¥9uFGNN WAY
5 i)
Mh,
Epi = HH
aN
y
iy,
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
APPENDIX G
Metamorphosis Alpha and Expedition to the Barrier Peaks
ublisher’s Introduction: One of the lesser-knonn facts related to the history of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks és that it was originally created as an adventure mod- ule for Metamorphosis Alpha, not Dungeons ¢& Dragons. It was actually run as a Metamorphosis Alpha adventure at an early Origins convention befere subsequent publication under the D&D banner. Several years ago, Goodman Games published a compila-
tion of all the Metamorphosis Alpha material TSR produced. In that volume, RPG historian Jon Peterson described the history of Metamorphosis Alpha—and that history overlaps considerably with the publication of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks. Here we reprint Jon's article, which we believe will surely be of interest to fans of Expedition to the Barrier Peaks.
A History of Metamorphosis Alpha
by Jon Peterson
he earliest role-playing games hid a good deal of
science fiction under a cloak of fantasy. The distinc-
tion between these two genres, so stark to us today, was only about twenty years old when fantasy gaming started: previously, in pulps of the early twentieth cen- tury, the blanket term “fantasy” included both techno- logical speculation and the utterly magical. What we see in Dungeons ¢ Dragons is a liberal blending of the two.
Gygax himself alerts us to the presence of science fic- tion in the Foreword to Dungeons ¢ Dragons, which calls out Burroughs’s Barsoom stories as a major influence— we detect traces of that world in the game’s encounter tables, which included tharks and various colors of Mar- tians. But throughout the first edition of Dungeons & Dragons, there are countless further nods to technology, parapsychology, and super science: in the vocabulary of Extra Sensory Perception (ESP), telekinesis, teleporta- tion, polymorphism, disintegration, and even hints about robots or androids. There is a section about “Other Worlds” that reminds us how “Mars is given in these rules,” but then invites referees to investigate alternate times, spaces, and dimensions.
The early play of Dungeons ¢ Dragons thus was never re- stricted solely to the medieval fantasy setting. We find this already in the vibrant Twin Cities role-playing com- munity that gave birth to Dave Arneson’s Blackmoor set-
ting, where parallel experiments took role-playing to the Wild West and the far future. Local gamer John Snider ran a science fiction campaign called “Stellar VII” which focused on the formation of galactic empires; early in 1975, TSR would publish a product based on this game called Star Probe. In the introduction to that booklet, Gygax tells us that elements flowed freely between these campaigns: in particular, how “one vessel from an avian race had the misfortunate of somehow arriving at the world of ‘Blackmoor’ (and promptly losing all to an an- gry wizard whom they foolishly disturbed)!” Incidents of this nature surely inspired Arneson’s early “City of the Gods” scenario, where fantastic adventurers explored the crash site of a spacecraft. Blackmoor frequently min- gled science fiction with its fantasy, as in the “Temple of the Frog” scenario printed in the B/ackmoor pamphlet, where we can find aliens, satellites, genetic engineering, anti-gravity, and interstellar radio.
Gygax’s own games also mixed settings, incorporating everything from Second World War combatants to bowl- ing alleys to spaceships. Famously, his original Greyhawk dungeon included Martian White Apes on its eleventh level, and he recommended introducing “a semi science- fiction situation” into games to keep things fresh and surprising. As one of his players from the early days re- membered, “I think it was in Gary G’s game, when I was able to acquire a 4d6 ray gun, that I realized that such
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARMATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
things were possible—if rules would allow for their bal- ance in a game format.”
That player’s name was James M. Ward. Ward had met Gygax by chance at a local bookstore while buying fan- tasy novels, which earned him an invitation to Gygax’s gaming table. Ward quickly latched on to the possibili- ties that science fiction brought to role-playing games. His first byline in a TSR publication came about eight- een months after the release of Dungeons ¢ Dragons, in the third issue of the Svrafegic Review, where he provides a system for randomly generating environments in the “Deserted Cities of Mars.” Ward demonstrates consid- erable fluency with Burroughs’s Barsoom setting, giving guidance on Martian urban planning which supported not only Dungeons & Dragons, but also another early TSR title, Warriors of Mars.
At the time, Ward ran his own Dungeons ¢ Dragons games in Prairie du Chien, a town on the western border of Wisconsin, about three hour’s drive from the principals of TSR in Lake Geneva. Ward’s approach to Dungeons ¢> Dragons embraced the potential of science fiction in role-playing to its fullest. His ideology is on display in the very first issue of Dragon magazine, in an article he titled, “Magic and Science: Are They Compatible in D&D?” In it, he advocates for a view very similar to Clarke’s Third Law, that “any sufficiently advanced technology is indis- tinguishable from magic.” Ward reports that back in the day he would “loudly clamor that, ‘a lightning bolt wand is just a static electricity generator,’ or ‘many magical po- tions are simply advanced chemical formulae.” In his own Dungeons & Dragons campaign, Ward introduced a race called the “Artificers” who created technological de- vices that rivaled or surpassed the destructive capabilities of magic. These included pistols, computers, and various “spheres” that could project spell-like abilities as rays. As Ward puts it, “Science does not have to be dull when a little imagination is applied.”
By the time Ward wrote those words, he was already well on his way to demonstrating the truth of that principle by creating an entirely original science-fiction role-play- ing game. “Early in 1976,” as Gygax would later write, Ward had already shown “rough notes” for his game to TSR, and on the basis of those notes, Gygax devised a famous tournament dungeon which he ran that summer at the second incarnation of the Origins convention in Baltimore. The adventure confronted fantastic medieval characters with, as one eyewitness put it, “a buried space- ship type of thing” as a way to introduce players to the new concepts that Ward’s game promised; for this pur-
pose, Gygax “laid out the tournament from old ‘Castle Greyhawk’ campaign material involving a spaceship.” A band of fifteen De>D characters would investigate this bizarre “dungeon” filled with mutated animals, androids, color-coded access cards, and space-age weaponry. TSR later printed a revised version of this dungeon as S3: Ex- pedition to the Barrier Peaks (1980).
What sort of game could Ward have designed, if his concepts inspired that module? Until the present day, we could only speculate about what the “rough notes” for Ward’s work-in-progress might have looked like. But in the present volume, for the first time, we can study a few draft pages of the game. Already in these notes we can make out the general setting of play. One page shows us the sixth level of a huge multilevel structure, and in- dicates how this level connected to the ones immediate- ly above and below it. The area shown is large enough that apparently a large complex, a place called the “Ruby City,” makes up only a small fraction of the space in the center of the level. The remainder contains mountain ranges and lakes, clearly an enormous expanse of terrain. Another page depicts a “Forest Level” with a central ele- vator, various trees and marshlands, and what appears to be an enormous anthill. The denizens of these environ- ments include robots and androids, but also “wolfoids,” tentacle monsters, and giant red ants. Much of the flora and fauna are assigned a numerical rating for “intensity,” and some plants are referred to as “mutated.”
At first glance, we might be hard pressed to say what sort of spaceship would contain these elements. But enormous colony ships crossing vast interstellar dis- tances with successive generations of human settlers, as well as animal and plant life, are a frequent trope in science-fiction literature, and often serve as an environ- ment for adventure—especially when colonists forget not just their mission, but even that they are on a ship at all. Robert A. Heinlein inaugurated this genre with two 1941 stories (“Universe” and “Common Sense”) which were later published in book form as Orphans of the Sky. In Heinlein’s vision, a colony ship sent to Proxima Cen- tauri from Earth suffers two catastrophes: a mutiny that leaves the ship without commanders, eventually leading the descendants of the original passengers to forget the nature of their surroundings; and a blast of radiation that causes mutants to be born, giving rise to primitive tribes of different genetic make-ups. The same theme was revisited by Brian Aldiss in Non-Stop (1958), where another colony ship, this time on the return journey to Earth, suffers similar problems; the resulting tribal hu-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARIATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
man societies shun and fear both mutants and custodial androids. Only a year before Dungeons & Dragons went to press, this theme played out on television in the widely- syndicated Canadian show Starlost—though it aired to lit- tle acclaim from science-fiction fans.
Ward drew heavily on such precedents for the settings of his new game. He imagined a seventeen-level colony ship, fifty miles long and twenty-five miles wide, called the Starship Warden, which departed Earth in 2277 with a million and a half colonists, as well as various native plants and animals. After the ship crossed a cloud of “space radiation,” however, many colonists were killed outright, and others developed mutations, as did much of the flora and fauna. Consequently, the game’s intro- duction would say, “Later generations of humans lost all sense of identity, with the ship regressing into a state of savagery.” Ward unleashed characters into this hostile en- vironment with one key objective: survival. Shortly after Origins II, a notice in the last issue of TSR’s Strategic Pre- view (not to be confused with the Strategic Review) revealed to the world the forthcoming release of “METAMOR- PHOSIS ALPHA—a role-playing game in the spirit of D&D but with a science fiction twist.”
Study of the rough notes preserved in the present volume gives us a glimpse into the early evolution of the game. In the Random Encounter table, for example, we can see a prototype for the first edition Metamorphosis Alpha encoun- ter tables. Some of the original mutant creature names ap- pear verbatim in the finished version of the game, like the “Sword Bush” and “Dark Fungus.” In other cases, we see slight variations, as the “Black One Spider” of these rough notes became the “Black One” in MA; similarly, the “Light- ning Beast” became the “Shocker Beast.” We can also see evidence of discarded concepts, like the “lionoid” that is ab- sent entirely from MA. While a number of “Martian” crea- tures were added to this list, the concept of Martian animals did not survive the final cut—though surely the “Martian Jawed Vine” survived as the “Jawed Plant” of MA.
When Metamorphosis Alpha shipped at the end of 1976, it immediately became a historical landmark: it was the first game that explicitly marketed itself as a “role-playing game.” Dungeons & Dragons did not contain that phrase; instead, it billed itself as “Rules for Fantastic Medieval Wargames Campaigns.” By the fall of 1975, however, critics had ob- served a cluster of titles in the marketplace that imitated the structure of Dungeons ¢ Dragons, and they lighted on the term “role-playing” as a new genre label. TSR began using the term informally early in 1976, but Metamorphosis Alpha was the first TSR title to declare itself an RPG on its cover.
The core system of Metamorphosis Alpha departs from Dungeons ¢ Dragons in that it does not involve personal progression: that is, gaining power through experience. Instead, characters may or may not start with innate mu- tations, which can be either beneficial or debilitating. The mutations themselves often approximate magical pow- ers: physical mutations may enable regeneration, or even shapeshifting; mental mutations allow telepathy, levita- tion, teleportation, even planar travel. In this way a sci- ence-fiction setting can smuggle in a good deal of fantasy. Some mutations derive from specific literary sources, like the “Temporal Fugue,” modeled on an ability from Rog- er Zelazny’s novel Creatures of Light and Darkness, Ward at the time cited Zelazny as his all-time favorite author. Mutant powers are essential to survival, as comparable abilities may be exhibited by roaming animals and even plants, but the only respect in which characters improve with experience is through the accumulation of knowl- edge and resources. Weapons available in the game world include vibro blades, laser pistols, paralysis darts, and knock-out gases—though characters must pass checks to use items of sufficient complexity, and the penalty for failing such a check can be catastrophic. One essential piece of equipment for navigating the Starship Warden is a properly-colored wristband: every colonist possessed a brown band, but access to restricted areas requires colors like white for medical facilities or gray for science labs.
The first advertisement for Metamorphosis Alpha shows up in the December 1976 Dragon magazine; it would reap- pear in the wargaming journal Panzerfaust a month later. By this point, TSR had established such an enthusiastic customer base that any new release quickly made it into the hands of distributers, reviewers, and fans. In the fan- zine Wild Hunt, we can already find a report dated De- cember 15 that a copy of Metamorphosis Alpha had turned up the previous week at a meeting of the MIT Strategic Games Society. The last issue of Flying Buffalo’s news- letter before Christmas announced that they had an ini- tial ten copies in stock. The Judges Guild began reselling the title by mid-January.
We can gauge the reception of Metamorphosis Alpha in the response of fans and commentators. Mark Swanson wrote a detailed review for Adarums ¢» Excursions #17, which was collated on December 11. Swanson regard- ed the game as “long predicted,” especially given that it was “apparently playtested at the Origins II tournament advertised as D&D,” a reference to Gygax’s Expedition to the Barrier Peaks. His assessment is quite positive: he observes that “the rules are better written and more con-
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED « EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
sistent than normal D&D,” to the point that they “are worth more to a D&D DM than many of the official supplements.” He expresses less enthusiasm about the setting, which apparently reminded many fans of the poorly-received Star/ost television show, disappointment at which obscured the memory of the superior efforts of Aldiss and Heinlein.
Praise for the mechanics of the game was nearly univer- sal. The February 1977 review in the Space Gamer reads: “How well does it play? Damn well. James Ward, the de- signer, is to be commended for doing a splendid job.” Later that year, George Phillies would write in the Amer- can Wargamer that “each section is much more clear (or at least longer) than the corresponding section in D&D; in many cases, examples of play are given—how the referee should handle particular rules, and so on.” Of course, like any new release, it had a few bugs in its system. Char- lie Luce pointed out in A/arums #20 that although there are references in Metamorphosis Alpha to saving throws (see for example the “Heightened Brain Talent” Mental Mutation), the game actually provides no saving throw tables. A few early reviewers also expressed some reser- vations about the game’s lack of an experience system, including Ian Livingstone in IW/ite Dwarf #1. But overall, the game spread rapidly and enjoyed a very positive re- ception ftom Dungeons ¢& Dragons fans.
Numerous issues of the Dragon in 1977 and 1978 elabo- rated on the base game of Metamorphosis Alpha. It proved so popular that after only eight months in the market, we see a notice in the Dragon magazine announcing a follow- up title: Gamma World. The article (which constitutes an early version of the introduction to the published Gamma World) describes a global campaign of nuclear terrorism that reduces Earth’s civilization to barbarism. This irradi- ated post-apocalyptic dystopia furthermore gives rise to mutations which sound suspiciously similar to those of Metamorphosis Alpha. The new game brought to an entire planet the setting that Metamorphosis Alpha confined to a starship: as Ward joked in a 1981 interview (conducted by Frank Mentzer for Po/yhedron #3), “it’s a natural tie, to go from the spaceship ‘dungeon’ to the wilderness ‘world’... So what we did was, we just began formulating the wilderness section of a science fiction D&D game.”
No one who studies Metamorphosis Alpha and Gamma World side-by-side could fail to acknowledge the enor- mous debt that the latter owes to the former. Both break down characters into three classes: one for “pure” hu- mans; a second for humans with mutations; and a third for mutated animals. Pure humans in both systems have
innate bonuses to leadership. Only less than one-fifth of the listed physical and mental mutations are different in Gamma World from those given in Metamorphosis Al- pha. Both games choose as their setting an environment where a radiation catastrophe occurred in the past, and thus elements in both games have a quantified “Radia- tion Intensity Level” that may cause death, or mutations, in exposed creatures. Many items of equipment are the same, though sometimes under altered names, and both games rely on the “domar” as the basic unit of currency. In some places the text of Gamma World follows the orig- inal in Metamorphosis Alpha almost exactly, as is the case for the sections on languages. The largest distinction is that Gamma World reinvents the monster list entirely, but this is mostly a difference in setting—it would not be entirely uncharitable to describe Gamma World as a new setting for Metamorphosis Alpha.
Gamma World, written by Ward in collaboration with Jake Jaquet, took the market by storm after its 1978 release. By the end of the decade, the monumental success of Gamma World had overshadowed its predecessor, which TSR quietly withdrew from the market in order not to undercut the new product. Ward, now one of TSR’s top breadwinners, remained committed to the Starship War- den, however, and he wrote in 1981 that his current “big project is the rewrite of Metamorphosis Alpha. This book- let will be turned into a GI’ supplement with new crea- tures, mutational powers, technological items, and more information on Gamma World and all of its role-playing aspects.” This planned title, Metamorphosis Alpha to Omega, did not appear as Ward originally envisioned it. However, his game retained a fan base over the years, and has re- cently undergone a revival, thanks in no small part to the personal efforts of Ward himself, who frequently runs games of Metamorphosis Alpha at conventions in his own inimitable, placid, murderous idiom.
Now, thanks to this comprehensive edition which repro- duces the first printing, a new generation of players can experience the singular vision of Metamorphosis Alpha. Because this volume anthologizes the most significant clarifications and additions published in the magazines of the day, newcomers can find within the original pe- riod material needed to recapture the experience of the game’s founding fans. The Starship arden awaits adven- turers with the wits needed to survive—growing at least one extra brain is recommended.
Jon Peterson is the author of Playing at the World.
ORIGIMAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
iit tl Fest y Peover FIFTH GOITION FERTREY
Stand-alone, world-neutral adventure modules compatible with 5E. All print editions also include a code for free PDF edition. Look for them at your local game store or www.goodman-games.com!
FEF #4: War-Lock FEF #5: Into the Dragon's Maw FEF #6: Raiders of the Lost Oasis Level 5 adventure Level 12 adventure Level 4 adventure
@
FEF #10: The Castle in the Sky FEF #11: The Archmage’ Lost Hideaway FEF #12: The Forgotten Hive Level 5 adventure Level 7 adventure Level 1 adventure
eo ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
GLITTERDOOM F TERS’ FA THE PILLARS OF PELAGIA >
4/ Vous
> 7;
FEF #1: Glitterdoom y Sister's Fate FEF #3: The Pillars of Pelagia
Level 3 adventure 3 3 adventure
: adem FANTASTIC ENCOUNTERS c jE LEVIATHAN ' THE FALLEN TEMPLE
FEF #7: Fantasy Encounters FEF #8: Eye of the Le Fallen Temple
A collection of short encounters evel 8 adventure Li 10 adventure
ee “ MYSTERY BENEATH THE MONASTERY NEATH THE K THE DROWNING CAVERNS OF THE FISH GOD
f
9
FEF #13: Mystery Beneath the Monastery FEF #14: Beneath The Keep FEF #15: ‘The Drowning Caverns
Level 4 adventure Level 1 adventure Level 10 adventure
ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REINCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
We're with the band.
EE FF sl
The band of adventurers, that is. Join us in Geo the pages of Dungeon Crawl Classics adventure SS ‘ modules. Stand-alone, world-neutral, all new, vt and inspired by Appendix N. Learn more at rH 7
| www.goodman-games.com. Of
Ko ORIGINAL ADVENTURES REIMCARNATED e EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
| | i {I 9 "781946 231 |
