Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09253 WG 8 Fate Of Istus"
See other formats
WC8 


Advanced 


yragons 


9253 






Fantasy World Adventure 


Jtk t • 




F 0,6 


Fate of istus 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF TOIM m AGIN AIlOW 














Advanced Dungeons^pragons 

NVORJIW GRfVl IdWKl 

Fantasy World Adventure 

The Fate of istus 



CREDITS 


Table of contents 


Authors: Nigel Findley, Dan 
Salas, Stephen inniss, Robert 
J. Kuntz 

Coordinators: Bruce Heard, 
Karen S. Boomgarden 
Editor: Kim Mohan 
Typography: Betty Elmore 
Cartography: Diesel 
Cover Art: Daniel Horne 
interior Art: Karl waller 


Distributed to the book trade In the united States by 
Random House inc., and In Canada by Random House of 
Canada, Ltd Distributed to the toy and nobby trade by 
regional distributors. Distributed In the United King- 
dom by TSR UK Ltd. 

These adventures are protected under the copyright 
laws of the united States of America, Any reproduc 
tion or unauthorized use of the material or artwork 
printed herein is prohibited without the express writ 
ten permission of TSR inc. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AO&P, WORLD OF 
GREY HAWK, PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the 
TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR, inc. 

*1989 TSR, inc. All Rights Reserved, printed in u.s.A, 

TSR, Inc. TSR Ltd, 

PO a 756 i20 ch urch End " Cherry Hi nton 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge GBi 3 lb 

Wl 53147 USA united Kingdom 



TSn, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF TOUR IMAGINATION' 1 * 


ISBN 0-088058 712-2 
9253 


introduction.2 

Ye Olde City Scroll #1: Rookroost.3 

Adventure #1: The Sage's Tower.6 

by Nigel Findley 

Ye Olde City Scroll § 2 : Rei Mord.14 

Adventure § 2: Swords for Hire.17 

by Dan Salas 

Ye Olde City Scroll #3: Jurnre.25 

Adventure #3: countdown in Jurnre .28 

by Stephen inniss 

Ye Olde city Scroll #4: Elredd.37 

Adventure #4: Diambeths Delving.40 

by Nigel Findley 

Ye Olde City Scroll #5: wintershiven.47 

Adventure #5: service for the Dead .50 

by Nigel Findley 

Ye Olde City Scroll #6: Leuklsh.58 

Adventure #6: The Carden of Evil.62 

by Dan Salas 

ye Olde City Scroll #7: Rauxes .69 

Adventure #7: Down with the Wizard .72 

by Robert J. Kuntz 

Ye Olde City scroll #8: chendl .83 

Adventure #8: At the King's Right Hand.85 

by Nigel Findley 

Ye Olde City scroll #9: verbobonc.93 

Adventure 09: luz's Gambit.95 

by Robert J. Kuntz 

Ye Olde City Scroll #10: Hesuel ilshar.105 

Adventure #10: The Scarlet Masque.108 

by Stephen inniss 

The Mirrors of Fate 

NPC #i: cymbelline (by Nigel Findley).120 

npc #2: Alaric (by Dan Salas) .122 

NPC #3: Beastman Avatar (by Stephen inniss) .124 

npc #4: Arllna (by Nigel Findley).126 


NPC #5: Narlond and the Prophet (by Robert J. Kuntz),. 127 





























INTRODUCTION 


Sages of the future on the world of Oerth will 
look back on the events described in this book 
and say to themselves (sagely, of course) that 
they had to happen sooner or later. In fact, 
they were Fated to happen. 

The Fate of Is tus, in addition to being the 
latest playing aid related to the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(r) setting, is a milestone 
achievement-both in terms of what it will do 
for you, the DM, and your players, and what it 
will do to the world itself. 

Not too much will be said about the story 
line here, so that you can be surprised and 
excited by this book as you read it-just as 
your players will be surprised and excited as 
their characters proceed through each adven 
ture to the cataclysmic conclusion. 

How to Use This Book 

The Fate of Istus is a package of ten adven 
tures . . . and more. Along with each adven 
ture is a map and description of the city in 
which it takes place. At the end of the book, in 
the section entitled The Mirrors of Fate, are 
descriptions of the five new non-player char 
acters who play pivotal roles in the campaign 

as it unfolds. . , , . .... , 

The overall scenario is the brainchild ot 
Istus, the Goddess of Fate in the Greyhawk 
milieu, who has-in her nearly infinite 
wisdom-decided that it's time to make some 
changes in the way of the world. But she 
doesn't simply make the changes, because she 
believes in the right of mortals to have an 
opportunity to influence their own Fate . So she 
sets up a series of tests, each one designed to 
assess the skills and the worthiness of a certain 
class of character. Next, she needs some sub 
jects to perform the tests-and that's where 
the player characters come in. 

The heroes of the campaign begin as incon 
spicuous novices, but by the time they reach 
the climactic confrontation in Adventure 
#10-if they get that far!-they will be adven 
turers of great skill. However, the tests that 
are set for them in each adventure grow in dif 
ficulty while the PCs are growing in power. 
They will indeed be tested every step of the 
way, and the final episode of the campaign will 


be the most perilous and taxing of all. 

The Lady of Fate must have a hand in 
things, of course. But instead of intervening 
herself, she creates an entity whom she 
names Morgorath. This character appears to 
the PCs in various guises and incarnations 
throughout the course of the campaign each 
manifestation so different from the others that 
only the most perceptive player character 
would even dream that they are actually all the 
same "person." Morgorath s role differs from 
one test to another; sometimes he (she?) is an 
active assistant, sometimes a more passive 
provider of clues and information . . . and 
sometimes an adversary-as if the PCs didn t 
have enough problems already! 

These adventures can be played indepen 
dent of one another by making only minor 
alterations. And, of course, the information on 
the cities (and even the NPCs) can be put to 
good use for purposes that have nothing to do 
with Istus. But the best way to get the most 
out of The Fate of Istus is to get the group 
together, roll up a few brand-new characters, 
and plunk them down just outside the walls of 
Rookroost-on the verge of beginning the 
adventure of their lives. 

About the Product 

If you've looked over the Table of Contents 
already, you know that The Fate of Istus is not 
the creation of a single person-and thats 
what makes it such an exciting and interesting 
package. Four accomplished designers were 
each given the same background information 
and then handed specific assignments to be 
accomplished within that framework. As 
you'll see, the framework was rigid in some 
respects and flexible in others. The adven 
tures have the continuity that's needed to 
make them playable in succession-but 
there's also a tremendous amount of variety 
from one section to the next. 

Perhaps nowhere is the variety more obvi 
ous than in the sections entitled Ye Olde City 
Scroll. Essentially, each designer was told to 
write about the city in which the adventure 
takes place, and provide a map as well. Just 
leafing through the book and glancing at the 


city maps will give you some idea of how each 
designer's approach to the project varied. In 
the process of playing any or all of these 
adventures, you'll get insights into the histo 
ry, culture, and geography of the Greyhawk 
milieu that will bring the environment to life 
like never before. 

No matter what kind of adventure you or 
your players prefer, you'll find it represented 
here. Battling a warrior with nothing but bare 
hands and quick reflexes; racing through a for 
est to foil an assassination plot; breaking into a 
mausoleum to put a beleaguered soul to rest; 
coping with a benevolent but insensitive 
bureaucracy; treading lightly through a laby 
rinth of dungeon corridors-all these chal 
lenges and more await the characters who are 
put to the test, over and over again, in The 
Fate of Istus. 

Game Mechanics 

Anyone who's familiar with the terminology 
and rules of the AD&D(r) game should have no 
trouble understanding or interpreting any of 
the information in this book. Only a couple of 
points are worth special mention. 

Some of the adventures call for characters 
to attempt Ability Checks-a concept that was 
introduced in Dungeoneer's Survival Guide. 
The procedure works as follows: Roll the indi 
cated die or dice and compare the result to the 
designated ability score of the character mak 
ing the attempt. If the roll is equal to or less 
than the character's ability score, the check is 
successful. 

Also, note that the THACO statistic given 
for any NPC fighter with an even-numbered 
experience level assumes the use of "per 
level combat advancement," as described in 
the note on page 74 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide, so that (for instance) a 10th level fight 
er has a better (lower) THACO number than a 
9th level fighter. If you elect not to use this 
optional rule, simply add 1 to the THACO 
number for such characters. 

Now, direct your eyes to the top of the next 
page-and, on behalf of Istus, welcome to 
Rookroost, . . . 


2 




Rookroost 

Like most petty holdings in the Bandit King 
doms, Rookroost (the name is shared by the 
territory and the city) traces its origins back 
to the wild skirmishes and turf wars that raged 
between 300 and 350 CV-and still continue, 
although somewhat abated in ferocity. It 
began as a small city-state, encompassing a 
walled town and little else, but has grown 
stronger over the years until it has become 
the largest and most powerful of the king 
doms. Its founder was an Oeridian robber bar 
on named Latavius, and under his dominion 
Rookroost enjoyed its most dynamic period of 
growth. In 371 CY, Latavius died suddenly- 
under rather suspicious circumstances-and 
the throne of Rookroost was taken over by 
the former commander of Latavius's personal 
bodyguard. This assumption of power 
through assassination would become the hall 
mark of Rookroost politics even until the 
present day* 

The current overlord of the kingdom is a 
human bandit-prince named Pernevi (a 
fighter/thief of 12th level) who styles himself 
as "The General" (don't forget the capital let 
ters!). Like Latavius, he is of Oeridian extrac 
tion and chaotic neutral (with evil tendencies) 
in alignment; unlike Latavius, he isn't a partic 
ularly strong leader. 

With the help of Rookroost's powerful 
Thieves Guild, The General gained ascendancy 
by assassinating the preceding ruler. The throne 
was still warm from its previous occupant when 
The General realized how easy it had been to 
remove a well-guarded (and neurotically suspi 
cious) leader, and he suddenly developed a para 
noid fear that he might be next. To protect 
himself, he came to an amicable agreement with 
the Thieves Guild: The General would run the 
military and national policy (such as it is) and any 
thing else the guild didn't want to bother with; 
the guild would run the rest. Thus, there are 
two fairly distinct governments in Rookroost: 
one overt, concerning itself with external affairs 
(The General, his administration, and his bully- 
boy police force); and one covert, concerning 
itself with anything profitable (the Thieves 
Guild), 

The leader of the Thieves Guild is Elara 
Momstar (see Adventure #1), a half-elf who 
calls herself Guildmother and rules her guild- 
and much of the city-with an iron fist. 
Despite this, or perhaps because of it. she is 
highly respected, even loved, by the mem 
bers of the guild. Elara keeps close contact 
with Rookroost's small but very effective 
assassins guild, known as the Slayers Broth 
erhood, 

The relationship between The General and 
Elara is complex. He sometimes turns to the 


guild for help, and guild members sometimes 
serve him-when it suits Elara-as his secret 
police. Despite the arrangement he has made 
with the guild, The General would very much 
like to see his own rule unchallenged. Very 
carefully, he's sounding out the assassins 
guilds in the neighboring territories to see if 
one of them would care to rid him of this 
aggravating female. Of course, Elara has 
learned of his machinations, since she already 
had contacts in all the guilds with which The 
General has communicated. (This possibility 
has occurred to The General, but out of a 
combination of desperation and self-assurance 
he keeps trying anyway.) For herself, Elara 
finds the whole affair rather amusing. She 
doesn't want The General's throne . . , yet. 
But if his efforts to get rid of her become more 
serious, she might see that he receives a 
nighttime visitation from "a short man with a 
long blade/' as she puts it. She would then 
arrange for someone more accommodating to 
be placed on the throne. 

The arrangement between the government 
and the guild is an open secret, although new 
comers to the city might not become aware of 
it immediately. They would, however, quickly 
notice pervasive corruption in the police force 
and government. The government is support 
ed through bribes, exorbitant gate fees, 
profits from foreign currency exchange, and 
"donations" from the Thieves Guild; the 
army is similarly funded, helped along by 
heavy "protection payments" from the terri 
tories through which the army moves. 

The General is a relatively poor leader (per 
haps because he spends so much time looking 
over his shoulder). Under his rule, Rookroost 
has lost considerable amounts of territory to 
its neighbors in the continuing border skir 
mishes that mark life in the Bandit Kingdoms. 
Despite these recent losses, Rookroost is still 
the largest city (more than 17,000 population) 
and the strongest territory in the Kingdoms. 

The city began as a walled town-little 
more than a fort-situated atop a low hill, and 
for the first portion of its history it grew by 
repeatedly building new walls to encompass 
its burgeoning size. Soon, however, growth 
became so rapid that the builders had to give 
up the losing battle. Now almost half of the 
city's area lies outside the outermost set of 
walls, clustered around the two main gates, 
Rookroost's earlier history can be traced from 
the concentric rings of walls that still stand 
within the city. Generally, the wealth of the 
residents decreases as one moves outward 
from the center area-called "The Peak," 
even though it is no more than 50 feet higher 
than the surrounding terrain. The poorest 
neighborhoods are beyond the city's outer 
most barrier, in the region known as Outwalk 
Residences and other buildings and physical 


features decline in appearance and quality the 
farther they are from The Peak. Prices at inns 
and taverns vary according to their location; 
the cost of a drink at the Drunken Dragon, for 
instance, is somewhat less than at the Palace 
Guard Inn. 

This concept of progressively poorer neigh 
borhoods gives an interesting perspective on 
the relationship between the Thieves Guild 
and the power base of the city. The Thieves 
Guildhall, located in a ramshackle warehouse 
belonging to Benedict 's Trading Coster, is just 
where one might expect it to be-in one of the 
rougher parts of town, just inside the outer 
most wall on a dark, dingy alley called Cheap 
Street. Even though this is where Elara 
works, by no means is it where she lives. The 
Guildhall is connected by a long underground 
tunnel to Elara f s palatial estate on The Peak. 
(Elara is well aware that this tunnel threatens 
the security of the city. Thus, she has heavily 
boobytrapped the tunnel, making it easy for 
her to dose it forever-from either end- 
should the necessity ever arise.) 

The population of Rookroost is a rough mix 
ture: predominantly human, with very few 
demi-humans except for a large contingent of 
half-ores. Many of the humanoid races are 
represented-ores most of all, with a few 
ogres and their kin, a handful of goblins, and 
even the occasional giant, ttfealth and power 
are concentrated in the human population 
(Elara being an exception), while the human 
oids typically Jive in ramshackle dwellings in 
Out wall. Because of the population mix, Com 
mon is the major tongue of Rookroost, with 
smatterings of Old Oeridian spoken by the 
more powerful humans (more to set them 
selves apart from the denizens of Out wall than 
for any other reason). 

The standard currency denominations of 
Rookroost are the crudely formed gold 
"lord," the silver "lady," and the copper 
"knave," but most other currencies are 
accepted anywhere in the city. However, the 
exchange rates are so heavily tilted in the 
city's favor that any piece of foreign currency 
has, in effect, only 40-50% of its usual pur 
chasing power. Also, a city law states that all 
stores must give change in local currency. 
Because of these facts, bartering is common 
in Rookroost. 

Guilds are strong in the city, and any trades 
man who doesn't join the appropriate guild is 
soon squeezed out of business-sometimes vio 
lently. Major guilds-smiths, merchants, team 
sters, even mages-are tied through corruption 
to the government and the Thieves Guild. 
Nobody can join a guild without paying a large ini 
tiation fee, much of which ends up split between 
Elara's and The General's coffers. 

The General's police force contains some 
300 members, at least one-third of whom are 


3 






ROOKROOST 


patrolling the streets (squads normally num 
ber 4-8 men each) or otherwise on duty at any 
time of the day or night. Typical patrolmen are 
1st level fighters with (on the average) 6 hp. 
Any squad of five or more will have at least 
one sergeant (F2,12 hp), and 10% of the men 
on the force are lieutenants (F3, 20 hp). Each 


policeman wears leather armor, bears a 
shield, and carries a dagger and at least one 
other weapon. Clubs, maces, and longswords 
predominate, depending upon the situation or 
the officer's assignment: swords are used for 
normal patrolling, clubs and maces for crowd 
control or to break up fights. 


The police are cut from the same cloth as 
The General himself-bandits and bullies 
who've found that working for the established 
order is sometimes more profitable than fight 
ing against it. They're paid a pittance, have lit 
tle discipline, and generally look like the 
ruffians they are. The only feature that distin- 


4 




UHI 


H 

Hi 



guishes them from other bullies abroad in the 
streets is the city crest sewn onto the breast 
of their leather armor* It's common knowl 
edge among residents that the police subsi 
dize their meager income through extortion 
and bribery. These activities are usually, but 
not necessarily, subtle. Visitors to the city are 
frequently hassled by police, grilled about 
their origin and purpose until they find some 
way of bribing the officers to leave them 
alone. Such extortion isn't limited to visitors, 
however: most of the force's income is 
extracted from the poorer citizens of Rook- 
roost. Police "extracurricular activity" 
decreases as one moves inward toward The 
Peak, and is totally absent in the central rich 
neighborhoods. Although it isn't an official 
policy {nor is it prohibited), individual officers 
have struck deals with the Thieves Guild to 
provide information for the guild and protec 
tion for guild members. 

The most profitable assignment for the 
police is gate duty. Around the clock, each of 
the city's seven gates is watched by a detach 
ment of police (four patrolmen, plus a ser 
geant during the day or a lieutenant at night). 
Ostensibly, their job is to keep undesirables 
out. In fact, they take the opportunity to 
shake down anybody trying to enter the city. 
City law calls for the police to levy a gate fee of 
1 s.p. (or the equivalent) on anyone who wish 
es to pass from the outside to the inside of a 
gate. A one-day pass is available for 5 s.p., 
allowing unlimited entry through any of the 
gates during a single day (useful for mer 
chants whose business requires frequent trips 
to Outwall and back). A monthly pass can be 
purchased for 10 g.p. (Such passes are only 
good for the number of days remaining in the 
current calendar month, although the guards 
won't make this clear for the benefit of first- 
time buyers.) Both kinds of passes are simply 
scraps of parchment with the date, type of 
pass, and the chop of the guard officer scrawl 
ed on them. PCs might be tempted to forge 
passes for themselves, and it's fairly easy to 
do so. Anyone with a sample to work from can 
whip up a forgery that has only a 20% chance 
of not passing inspection each time it is used. 
A thief, an assassin, a bard, or someone with 
the secondary skill of scribe (or equivalent) 
can produce a forgery that has a mere 5% 
chance of being discovered per use. If the 
gate guards catch someone using a forged 
pass, they*!! mete out instant retribution: at 
the very least, a savage beating and confisca 
tion of all valuables, followed by prosecution. 

The 1 s.p. gate fee is the base figure, but 
the police are masters at judging what the 
traffic will bear. If they think they can get away 
with it, they'll charge additional fees (for 
example, 1 s.p. per hoof for large animals, 1 
s.p. per wheel for carts and carriages, or an 


exorbitant "weapon fee" of 2 g.p. or more for 
armed adventurers that the police think they 
can bluff). Of course, some city residents 
have special dispensation, and they'll just 
breeze past the gate guards without stopping. 
The police know these people (typically the 
denizens of The Peak, rich merchants, The 
General's cronies, and so forth), and will 
salute them. (It might be possible for a PC to 
bluff his way past the guards, although very 
difficult.) 

Each gate detachment is always backed 
up-although not obviously-by a couple of 
thieves of 2nd or 3rd level. At the end of their 
eight-hour watch, the police give half of their 
take to the thieves, who deliver it to the cof 
fers of the Thieves Guild. (How the remaining 
spoils are divvied up among the police 
depends on the personalities involved.) Apart 
from the money, participating in gate duty has 
another valuable benefit for the guild: it allows 
them to spot rich-looking potential marks as 
they enter the city. As a matter of policy, the 
police question anv affluent stranger as to 
where he or she will be staying in the city, 
then pass this information on to the thieves. 

The entire territory of Rookroost has a 
standing army of several thousand men. While 
most of them are in the field to protect against 
the incursions of neighboring kingdoms, sev 
eral hundred are barracked outside the city 
walls (a gentle reminder to anyone dissatisfied 
with the status quo that rebellion isn't a wise 
idea). 

The city contains temples dedicated to 
many of the Oeridian gods: Zdchus (primarily 
honored by the wealthy and powerful). Ery- 
thnul (worshiped by many humanoids), Hex- 
tor (popular with soldiers and police), KureU 
(honored by Elara and most of the Thieves 
Guild), Atroa, Celestian, and Fharlanghn. The 
last three named deities do not boast numer 
ous or especially fervent congregations. In 
Outw r all, there are also ramshackle chapels 
dedicated to some of the gods of the human 
oids (Gruumsh, for example). 

if a city can be said to have an alignment, 
then Rookroost is definitely neutral with cha 
otic and evil tendencies (these tendencies are, 
of course, more pronounced in Outwall). 

Rookroost received its name from the fact 
that the area is home to great flocks of rooks 
and ravens, and the large black birds are a 
common sight on the rooftops of the city. The 
central square, onto which The General s res 
idence faces, frequently seems to be carpeted 
with the creatures. These birds are central to 
an ancient prophecy. Soon after the founding 
of the city, a seer foretold that, as long as the 
rooks still roosted around the central square, 
the city that bore their name would never fall 
to outside invaders. So far, the prophecy 
seems to be holding up: although the city has 


been attacked and besieged several times, it 
has always withstood the attentions of 
marauders. In light of the recent setbacks in 
the border campaigns. The General has this 
prophecy firmly in mind, and has members of 
his staff go out info the square on a daily basis 
to feed the rooks, trying to ensure that they'll 
remain. 

To determine the nature of encounters 
within the city, the City/Town Encounters 
Matrix on page 191 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide can be used. The DM should keep in 
mind the racial characteristics of the city, and 
should feel free to modify these encounters to 
better suit the nature of Rookroost, 

Map Key 

1. The General's Palace 

2. Raven Square 

3. Triumphary (the main road) 

4. The Sage's Tower 

5. Benedict's Trading Coster warehouse 
(Thieves Guildhall) 

6. Benedict's Trading Coster offices 

7. Elara's villa 

8. Police guardhouse 
9 . The White Elf Inn 

10. Peak Gate 

11. The Drunken Dragon Tavern 

12. Army encampment 

13. Temple to Zilchus 

14. Temple to Atroa 

15. Chapel to Celestian 

16. Chapel to Kurell 

17. Chapel to Gruumsh 

18. Merchants' Guildhall 

19. Teamsters' Guildhall 

20. Mages' Guildhall 

21. The Wayfarer Tavern 

22. Ravenshead Inn 

23. Triumphary Gate 

24. Palace Guard Inn 

25. Guardhouse for The General's guard 

26. Smiths' Guildhall 

27. Greystaffs SaUe d'Armes 

28. Random's Trading Coster warehouse 

29. Grey haven Armorers 

30. Marketplace 

31. Northhaven Tavern 

32. Aliss Westwind Apothecary 

33. City Cemetery 

34. Funary Gate 

35. Peak Circle Street 

36. The Serpentine (street) 

37. Cheap Street 

38. The Shank (street) 

39. Dead Man's Passage (street) 

40. Great Northern Way (street) 

41. The Crescent (street) 

42. The General's Way (street) 

Note: The streets in Outwall are unpaved and 
not truly fixed, and therefore often shift. 


5 






THE SAGE'S TOWER 


This adventure is designed for up to six char 
acters of zero level (or 1st level, if the DM 
decides not to use the rules for zero-level 
characters). A thief character will be helpful, 
although not strictly necessary. 

DM's Introduction 

Plague is abroad in Rookroost-or that s what 
a large percentage of its populace believes. A 
week ago, the city was as disease-free as a 
city like Rookroost ever is. Now scores are 
suffering from a malady that has herbalists and 
clerics puzzled .. • and worried. 

The disease starts innocuously enough, 
with feelings of lassitude, dull pain in the 
joints, swollen lymph nodes, and a throbbing 
headache. Within hours, the lassitude grows, 
and the victim shows a mild fever. Then 
strange red blotches* or edemas* appear, and 
the headache becomes a crippling, trip- ham 
mer pounding. The victim becomes incapable 
of concentration and unable to move without 
assistance. The duration of the disease vanes 
from person to person; sometimes it takes 
two or three days to progress to the incapaci 
tating phase, sometimes (particularly with 
children or frail adults) less than a day. 
Nobody knows the origin of the disease- 
although there are many theories, some of 
them farfetched in the extreme-and there 
are only guesses as to its nature and manner 
of transmission. Judging by its rapid spread 
through the city, it must be contagious. But 
how is the contagion passed on? By physical 
contact? Through the air, or the water? Or by 
some other mysterious-perhaps super 
natural-agency? 

Even more worrisome is its resistance to all 
attempted cures. Poultices, infusions, 
draughts, quack medicines, potions from rep 
utable herbalists, leeching, bleeding-all are 
ineffective. Even magics and the ministrations 
of clerics (cure disease, heal, and the like) 
have proven useless. Certain herbal treat 
ments have been found to lessen the pain in 
the joints and ease the worst of the headache, 
but even these seem to work in only some of 
the cases. Old records describe a plague that 
decimated the Bandit Kingdom's population as 
it swept across the Flanaess some four score 
years ago. The Red Death, as it was called, 
also started with aches and a fever, but soon 
showed its lethal nature. More than two thou 
sand people died in Rookroost alone, and no 
cure was ever found. The disease simply 
burned itself out, vanishing as mysteriously as 
it had appeared. While the old records are 
now seen only by sages, some clerics, and a 
handful of herbalists, the knowledge has 
somehow spread. The word on the streets is 
that the Red Death has returned. 

Already, the populace talks of a number of 
people who've died of the plague. True, the 


victims (most of whom dwell in Outwall) are 
all old and might be expected to have died 
from even a minor fever, but memories are 
very long and imaginations very fertile when it 
comes to plagues. Although the necessary 
commerce of Rookroost makes it impossible 
to close the gates and isolate the city, the rich 
er neighborhoods are enforcing quarantines to 
varying degrees. The gates to The Peak are 
closed and guarded, and nobody is allowed 
admission without a very good reason. 

A thriving business has sprung up among 
unscrupulous herbalists and con men, all 
hawking patent nostrums "guaranteed" to 
protect against the Red Death. Triumphary 
and most of the street comers near the two 
outermost gates are stages for more or less 
elaborate patent-medicine shows, and similar 
booths and stalls have sprung up throughout 
Outwall. Most of these ''medicines" are 
harmless, although a few are mildly noxious. 
All of them are ineffective. 

In game terms, the disease has the follow 
ing effects. At the onset, an affected charac 
ter suffers 1 point decreases in strength, 
dexterity, and constitution. As the malady 
progresses, these three ability scores con 
tinue to drop until they've each decreased by 
5 points. The disease reaches its worst stage 
after a number of hours equal to the victim's 
constitution times four. At this point, wisdom 
instantly decreases by 4 points and intelli 
gence by 3 in addition to the strength, dexteri 
ty and constitution losses that have^ come 
before; movement is decreased to 3 ; and 
spell casting becomes impossible. This phase 
of the disease can continue indefinitely. If any 
attribute reaches zero, the victim dies. When 
the disease is cured (either by a curative 
found in a stand-alone adventure or at the end 
of the complete campaign), all attributes grad 
ually return to normal over a period of 24 
hours as the disease's symptoms fade and 
vanish. 

Introducing the PCs 

If the PCs have not yet met each other, the 
DM might find the following scenario useful. 

The PCs were bom in or around Roo 
kroost, or have come to make their homes 
there. Each has a friend or family member 
who has been stricken with the fever, and fear 
is high that the sufferers will die of the plague. 
Each PC has ventured forth into the city look 
ing for a treatment or cure that will help his or 
her friend. While traveling the streets of the 
city, each PC (or each group of two or more, 
assuming that some of them have made con 
tact with each other already) is approached by 
a well-dressed (some might even say foppish) 
half elf male with long, flowing silver hair, dad 
in a white mantle over chain mail. This is Cym- 
belline (see The Mirrors ol Fate). He leads 


the PC aside and quietly tells him or her that 
he knows the origin of the plague, and has a 
good guess as to the location of a cure. Look 
ing around himself secretively, Cymbelline 
claims that he can't say more here. Why 
doesn't the PC meet him at a tavern, the 
Drunken Dragon, at sundown? 

Each PC (or group) experiences a similar 
encounter, and all the PCs find themselves at 
the same tavern. Cymbelline is late, giving 
those who don't know each other yet the 
opportunity to make each other's acquaint 
ance. 

If the PCs already know each other and are 
traveling together, they're introduced to the 
adventure one day when they're whiling away 
the hours in a tavern. There they are 
approached by Cymbelline. 

In either case, Cymbelline introduces him 
self to the group as a "footloose poet, a way 
farer, and part- time scoundrel." He's come to 
know the highways and byways of Rookroost, 
and has stumbled upon some information that 
might be of interest to the PCs-if, that is, 
they're on the lookout for a little bit of loot... 
and the possibility of renown as saviors of the 
city. 

Near the heart of the city is the Sage's 
Tower-the home of Ereaden, known to the 
townsfolk of Rookroost as a great wizard. The 
word on the street is that Ereaden has recent 
ly been in the employ of The General himself, 
conducting experiments on the nature of dis 
ease. Cymbelline has a nasty suspicion that he 
was working on some kind of biological weap 
on (or maybe a way of disposing of Elara on 
The General's behalf). Perhaps, Cymbelline 
speculates, he was a mite too successful. ... 

A week or so before the plague appeared in 
Rookroost, the sage received a delivery from 
a travel-soiled ranger: a caged creature of 
unknown sort. (Cymbelline wasn't present at 
the time, and his source-one of the sage's 
neighbors, who eavesdropped on the de 
livery-didn't get a good enough look at the 
creature to have a chance of identifying it.) 
Ereaden took the cage into his tower, and 
since a few days later he hasn't been heard 
from or seen. 

For the past several years, the sage has 
paid his neighbors to bring him food and sup 
plies on a regular basis, so he never has to 
leave his residence. Cymbelline has talked to 
the neighbors and found out that the supplies 
they brought almost a week ago still haven't 
been taken inside the tower-and the struc 
ture is locked up tight from the inside. 

Cymbelline thinks the sage is dead, and 
believes the strange beast was a carrier of the 
plague. The creature is probably still in the 
Sage's Tower, Cymbelline theorizes, and 
considering Ereaden's reputed competence 
a cure or treatment might be found there as 


6 




well. Cymbelline suggests that if the PCs 
really care about finding a cure for the plague 
sweeping Rookroost, then their next step 
should be to get into the tower and look 
around. (If the PCs ask why Cymbelline won't 
do it himself, he'll answer with something 
like, "I said I was a part-time scoundrel, not a 
congenita] idiot. If I'm right, there's plague in 
that tower,") 

If the PCs tell Cymbelline that they're 
unskilled and untrained (zero-level), the half 


elf nods. "I know a woman you should meet," 
he says. "She's a friend of mine; she'll 
arrange for you to get some training " He pulls 
out a scrap of parchment and scrawls a rough 
map showing the PCs how to get to "Bene 
dict's" on Cheap Street (actually the Thieves 
Guildhall, although zero-level characters, 
unless they're natives of Rookroost, probably 
wouldn't know this), "It's easy to find; you 
can't miss it," Cymbelline tells them. "Knock 
on the door and ask to speak to the mother of 


the person who answers. Mention my name. 
The woman will help you, but there will be a 
cost. No doubt you'll be able to work it off, 
though." Cymbelline refuses to answer any 
further questions, claiming ignorance, then 
wishes the PCs luck and leaves them to their 
own devices. 

If the PCs decide to accept Cymbelline's 
suggestion about training, they find the map 
difficult to follow. They can, however, discern 
the general neighborhood their destination is 
in. Finding their way to the guildhall should 
take 1-4 hours of searching. During this time, 
there are several "set piece" encounters that 
can occur. The DM can use any or all of these, 
as deemed appropriate. Alternatively, the DM 
can use the City/Town Encounters Matrix on 
page 191 of the Dungeon Masters Guide for 
random encounters. 

1. Police: The PCs are hassled by four of 
The General's police, 1st level fighters (AC 8; 
MV 12"; HD1; hp4, 5, 7, 9; #AT 1; Dmg 18/ 
1-12 (longswords); THACG 20; AL CN(E)), 
The police are aggressive, asking where the 
PCs are going and what their business is. (In 
fact, they 're looking for a way of shaking the 
PCs down for a few gold pieces.) If the PCs 
resist, the police will set upon them and try to 
pummel them senseless for their temerity, 
using their blades only if they have to. If, how 
ever, the PCs describe their destination, the 
police will immediately leave them alone. (The 
patrolmen have reason to respect and fear the 
Thieves Guild, and now they suspect that the 
PCs are somehow connected with that organi 
zation.) 

2. Street Urchins: A horde of twenty scruf 
fy street urchins, zero-level youngsters (AC 
10; MV 12"; hp 1-2 each; #AT 1 (bite or 
scratch); Dmg 1; THACG 20; AL CN), 
swarms around the PCs. The urchins snatch 
at the PCs' clothing and equipment as they 
rush by, trying to steal anything that's not 
securely attached (5% chance for any such 
item to be grabbed). This onslaught lasts for 1 
round, during which time each party member 
will be accosted by 3-5 of the urchins; then the 
children rush off, laughing, with anything 
they've managed to lift. If any of the children 
are struck or pursued, they'll scatter. (They 
know the alleyways very well, and so the 
group has a 75% chance of evading the PCs 
entirely.) If the PCs try to restrain any of the 
children while they are being accosted, each 
character can grab and hold as many urchins 
as he has free hands-but the PC risks getting 
bitten or scratched by his quarry. If at least 
one child is restrained, the resulting commo 
tion will attract police to the scene within 2-5 
rounds. Instead of disciplining the urchins, the 
police will threaten to charge the PCs with 
"child abuse" (yet another heavy-handed 
attempt to shake down the PCs for cash). 



7 







3. Rats: In a particularly noisome alley, the 
PCs are attacked by three rats (AC 7; MV 
15"; HD V-tjhpl, 1,2; #AT l; Dmg 1; SA 5% 
chance of causing serious disease; THACO 
20; AL N), The rats live in the garbage strewn 
about the alley and are protecting their home. 

4. Rabid Dog: A mad dog, foaming at the 
mouth, attacks the PCs without warning or 
provocation (AC 7; MV 15"; HD 1 +1; hp 4; 
HAT 1 (bite); Dmg 14; THACO 18; AL N; SA 
20% chance of causing serious cardiovascular 
disease). 

5. Street Hawker: A disreputable-looking 
human female (AC 10; MV 12"; zero level; hp 
3; #AT1; Dmg 14/1-3 (dagger); THACO 20; 
AL CN) accosts the PCs, trying to sell them a 
"guaranteed protection against the Red 
Death" A foul-tasting-and totally inef 
fective-herbal concoction, this "potion" 
costs 5 s.p. per dose. She carries four doses 
in earthenware vials. She'll continue to harass 
the PCs until they either buy her wares or 
scare her off by drawing weapons. 

6. Plague Victim: Blotched with the red 
edemas typical of the disease, this unfortu 
nate lies propped up against a wall of an alley. 
He's in the final stage of the fever, unable to 
move by himself, and he calls piteously to the 
PCs to give him water. If the PCs oblige him, 
he thanks them kindly, then sinks back into his 
persona] misery. If they ignore him, he sum 
mons enough strength to swear at them 
viciously. 

Guildhall 

When the PCs eventually reach the location 
marked on Cymbeiline's map, they find a run 
down warehouse. Over the door is a rotting 
sign reading "Benedict's Trading Coster/' 
There's no sign of life within. If the PCs make 
their presence known, however, the door is 
opened by a rough-looking human with an abu 
sive manner. He is, of course, the Guildhall 
door guard, charged with keeping unauthor 
ized visitors out. 

Door guard-male 3rd level thief: AC 8 
(leather under soiled merchant's robe); MV 
12"; HD 3; hp 14; MT 1; Dmg 1-6/1-8 
(shortsword); THACO 20; AL LE. 

The guard tries to turn the PCs away, and 
isn't too tactful about it: "Get out of here 
before I slit your rotten throats!" If the PCs 
engage the guard in combat, he's joined in one 
round by three more guards with identical sta 
tistics. The four thieves will do their best to 
slay the intruders and drag their bodies inside 
for eventual disposal. 

if the PCs mention Cymbeiline's name, 
however, the guard reacts with recognition, 
asking them a little more politely exactly what 
they want. Any statement equivalent to "We 
want to see your mother" will elicit a nod of 
acceptance. The guard then invites the PCs 


inside the building. 

The entrance alcove is dark, and the other 
three guards are waiting inside. They ask the 
PCs to allow themselves to be blindfolded 
("You understand why'') before they go any 
farther. The guards are firm on this point. If 
the PCs refuse, they're free to leave, but 
they'll get no farther inside without first slay 
ing all the guards (an exceptionally difficult 
undertaking considering the low level of the 
party). 

Once blindfolded, the PCs are led deeper 
into the building, following a winding path, up 
and down stairs. They eventually reach a 
large, windowless room, and their blindfolds 
are removed. Sitting behind a table in front of 
them is a middle-aged half-elven woman who 
has the bearing of command. She is flanked by 
two formidable-looking assistants. This is the 
Guildmother, 

Elara Momstar, Guildmother- female half- 
elven 14th level thief: AC 10; MV 12"; HD 
14; hp 55; #AT 1; Dmg 4-7Z4-6 (dagger +3); 
THACO 11 (with dagger +3); AL LM(E)), 

Guildmother's assistants-male 6th level 
thieves (2): AC 8; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 29 each; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-6/1-8 (shortsword); THACO 
19; AL LE. 

The four guards from the front door stand 
behind the PCs as the Guildmother addresses 
them. "You use the name of my colleague," 
Elara begins, "What is it that you ask of me?" 

If the PCs ask for training, she immediately 
agrees: "I thought as much. Training you 
request, training you shall have. But there will 
be a price. To begin with, all proceeds from 
your raid on the Sage's Tower. That is your 
target, isn't it?" 

All of the other thieves in the room act sur 
prised by Elara's immediate agreement to the 
PCs' request for training, although they are 
too disciplined to say anything. (Such behavior 
is indeed totally out of character for Elara. 
However, her character was changed just the 
previous day, when Cymbelline approached 
her, claiming to have important information 
from the Guildmaster of a nearby city's 
Thieves Guild. During their private conversa 
tion, he told her that an assault on Ereaden's 
tower might be forthcoming and he used the 
power of his sword to charm the Guildmother 
into giving training to any visitors who used 
his name, because they would be the ones 
intending to attempt the incursion.) 

One of the guards standing behind the PCs 
is the most surprised person in the room, but 
is careful to keep this fact to himself. He's 
more than just the simple thief he appears to 
be; actually, he's a member of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. He has infiltrated this guild-as 
his brethren have done with most such guilds 
throughout the Flanaess-to report back mat 
ters of interest to the Brotherhood. His supe 


riors have recently alerted him that strange 
matters are afoot in the world, and have 
ordered him to keep an especially sharp eye 
out for anything unusual. 

Elara goes on, indicating one of the assist 
ants by her side. "This is Araman. He will be 
in charge of your training. Araman, take them 
away." Immediately, Araman leads the PCs 
out of Elara's study and explains to them the 
arrangements under which they'll be trained. 

The Training 

The guild, Araman explains, will give the PCs 
instruction in thieving skills, fighting skills, or 
preliminary magic (but not of the illusionist 
variety). Among the guild's associate mem 
bers is a cleric (5th level, chaotic neutral) ded 
icated to the god Kurell, chaotic neutral god of 
thieves; he'll teach any aspiring cleric who's 
of his moral and ethical bent and will swear to 
follow that god. There are no bards, illusion 
ists, druids, monks, or members of fighter 
subclasses in the guild or associated with the 
guild, so the organization cannot provide 
training for characters of those types, (PCs 
who want or need such training are on their 
own.) Training in the assassin's arts is availa 
ble through a reciprocal arrangement with the 
city's Slayers Brotherhood. 

The guild will provide training, but will not 
provide any PC with the final initiation into his 
chosen class(es) unless the PC signs himself 
over to the guild (a binding oath made to Ara 
man. the Guildmother's assistant) for a period 
of two years. During this period, a guild asso 
ciate (for such the PC becomes with the oath) 
must obey the orders of the guild, helping the 
organization in any ways with no payment 
above that necessary for subsistence. Reneg 
ing on this vow is punishable by messy death, 
sentence to be carried out on sight, no appeal. 

Thieves and assassins who wish to receive 
their initiation must become paid-up (and life 
long) members of their respective guilds, and 
both must perform a "graduation exercise" (a 
robbery or a minor assassination) during 
which they are secretly monitored. Clerics 
wishing to be initiated must be ordained into 
the church of Kurell. 

DM Note: The intention here is to put 
enough impediments in their way to make it 
likely that the PCs will look elsewhere for 
their initiation. If they do try to take advan 
tage of the guild, there'll be lots of scope for 
future adventures, particularly if they run out 
on their oaths. 

The Guildmother *s instructions are to train 
the PCs for as long as they desire. There 
should be steadily growing pressure applied to 
them, however, to get on about their business 
(the Sage's Tower). At first, this pressure is 
simply rumors of the spread of the disease. 
Within the first week, the PCs hear, one in ten 






of the city populace has shown the first symp 
toms of the disease (an even higher propor 
tion in Outwall). More people are dying, now 
the very young as well as the very old. 

DM Note: The number of people actually 
dying is, in fact, very small. In rumors, 
however-particularly rumors of plague- 
numbers get vastly exaggerated, often by a 
factor of fifty or more. 

The percentage of infected citizens and the 
number of reported deaths both climb steadi 
ly After a week or so, the PCs receive a note 
from Cymbelline, asking if they've forgotten 
their conversation with him. Eventually, if the 
PCs show no intention of getting about their 
business, the DM can optionally inform them 
that one of their family members or friends 
(the individual for whom one of the PCs ini 
tially ventured into he city) has succumbed to 
the plague . The final card to play is for the DM 
to report to one of the players that his PC 
seems to have contracted the disease. When 
word to this effect gets out, guild members 
will no longer associate with the infected PC, 
and will insist that all the PCs leave before 
they spread contagion to the entire guild. 

During the training period, of course, the 
guild will keep the PCs busy with menial 
dudes: cleaning the Guildhall, cooking, wash 
ing dishes, laundry, and so forth. There'll also 
be special jobs appropriate to each class for 
which the PCs are training. These jobs can 
turn into short zero-level adventures. Here 
are some suggestions for each class: 

Fighter: Act as outside guard during a bur 
glary: disguised as a noble's bodyguard, 
escort a mid-level thief (disguised as a noble 
man) into Outwall on some mission; collect an 
outstanding debt from a zero-level merchant 
in Outwall; take a shift on front door duty 
(accompanied by three 3rd level thieves). 

Thief: Assist with a minor burglary; steal a 
certain scroll from a bookseller; enter a 
higher-class tavern and steal the purse of a 
particular merchant within (to embarrass him 
when he finds he can't pay the bill); steal the 
flag of a neighboring city from the roof of an 
inn (the flag was raised to honor the repre 
sentative of the other city, who is staying 
inside) and replace it with the flag of Roo- 
kroost. 

Cleric: Take a message to another cleric of 
Kurell whose chapel is in Outwall; accompany 
a burglary team as "medic"; at midnight on 
the anniversary- of his death, take a wreath to 
a graveyard outside the walls and place it on 
the grave of a previous Guildmaster, 

Magic-user: Put on a conjuring show out 
side a store to act as a diversion while other 
guild members rob it; accompany a thief on a 
midnight excursion into a library to identify 
those books which might be of interest to the 
guild's mage; distract a high-level fighter 


while some apprentice pickpockets rob him 
blind. 

Assassin: In disguise, infiltrate a meeting of 
the Teamsters Guild to discover their political 
plans (if any); assassinate a visiting low-level 
paladin, but make it look like an accident or a 
death from natural causes. 

These are only suggestions. The individual 
DM can use any or all of these, or concoct 
original adventures to keep the PCs busy. In 
any case, it's certain that the PCs will find 
their training period very educational-not 
only about their chosen class, but also about 
how the city of Rookroost operates. 

No matter how valuable they find their 
training, the PCs should eventually be coaxed 
into striking out on their own and approaching 
the Sage's Tower. 

Whether the PCs are expelled from the 
guild when sickness strikes or go voluntarily, 
Elara the Guildmother has ordered that no 
guild member assist them in any wav during 
their assault on the Sage's Tower. (As will 
become apparent, she's already lost three 
thieves to the tower, and has no intention of 
losing any more.) 

The Tower 

Located just outside the walls of The Peak 
neighborhood, the Sage's Tower is an impres 
sive edifice. Eighty feet tail, it's built of huge 
blocks of black basalt, roughly fitted together. 
The tower itself is narrow, with barely 
enough room for a winding staircase, topped 
by strange apparatuses that sometimes shine 
in the sun. The tower stands atop a blocky 
building. Neither the tower nor the base build 
ing has any windows, and there is only one 
door: huge and heavy, made of iron. Piled in 
front of this door are about a week's worth of 
supplies-loaves of bread, cuts of meat, fruits 
and vegetables-some items starting to spoil. 
(Such is the respect that the sage enjoys from 
his neighbors that nobody seems to have 
stolen any of the food-surprising for Rook 
roost.) 

In the middle of the door is a large knocker 
in the shape of a lion's head. If anyone has the 
temerity to use the knocker, the lion's head 
speaks with a magic mouth spell; "Go away. 
Private property. Trespassers will be killed." 
(This message will be repeated every time 
someone tries the knocker.) The door is 
locked and wizard locked. Even if the PCs 
have some way of dispelling the wizard lock , 
heavy bolts have been shot, securing the door 
from the inside. There is no way into the 
building , . . other than possibly through the 
top of the tower. 

This solution should quickly come to the 
PCs' minds. The base building is little more 
than 10 feet high, easily scaled by a thief, or 
by one PC standing on another's shoulders. 


Once the PCs are atop the base building, how 
ever, the tower still rears another 70 feet 
above their heads. Luckily, the basalt is 
rough, with many handholds and footholds, 
making it relatively easy for a thief to climb. 
Therefore, the best solution is for a thief to 
scale the tower with a rope, attach it at the 
top, and have the remainder of the party 
members climb the rope. (A party without a 
thief can no doubt think of alternatives, such 
as grappling hooks or arrows, spider climb, 
etc.) 

If the PCs try this in daytime, there's a 10% 
chance per round that someone will notice and 
attract the attention of the police. Despite the 
officers' dose connection with the Thieves 
Guild-or perhaps because of it-the police 
come down hard on "freelance" thieving 
operations. The police have got the word that 
no authorized guild activity is scheduled for 
the Sage's Tower, so they know that the PCs 
are working freelance. They'll try to arrest 
the PCs and drag them off to the station, 
where they'll be charged with attempted bur 
glary and incarcerated until their trial, (Thus, 
it is much safer for the PCs to try' anything at 
night.) 

The top of the tower is circular, 15 feet in 
diameter, with 4-foot-high metal guard rails 
around its edges. Set into the center is a 
wooden trapdoor. This trapdoor is secured by 
a bolt on the inside. The wood is so soft, how 
ever, that any PC who thinks of it can use a 
knife to dig through it, then just slide the bolt 
back. Alternatively, the trapdoor can be tom 
open by brute force; a character must make a 
bend bars roll to succeed. In either case, the 
PCs' ministrations will render the trapdoor 
incapable of being closed properly thereafter. 

Bolted onto the stone floor are a number of 
fascinating instruments, all made of brass; a 
small telescope, an astrolabe, a mercury 
barometer, a sextant, and an anemometer. If 
the PCs wish to spend the time to detach 
them from the floor, and can get them out of 
the tower in one piece, they might be able to 
sell them for up to 250 g.p. for each instru 
ment . . . if they can find an appropriate buyer 
(probably a difficult task). 

The trapdoor opens onto the dark interior 
of the building, giving access to a spiral stair 
way only wide enough for one person. 
There's no handrail, and any stumble might 
cause a damaging fall down the center of the 
tower. (Each PC must make a ld20 Dexterity 
Check to keep from stumbling; if a stumble 
occurs, a second failed check indicates that a 
fall results.) A grim reminder of the perils of 
the stairway appears one-third of the way 
down the descending spiral. Protruding from 
the wall, just at knee height for a human, is a 
metal rod about two feet long. Its end has 
blood on it. A thief can easily determine what 


9 







2. Ereaden's Study 









happened: the metal rod is part of a trap that 
springs out from the wall when triggered by 
weight on one of the steps. If the PCs' light 
reaches to the bottom of the tower, they can 
see the victim. Dressed in the tight-fitting 
black "business suit'* of a guild thief, he lies 
crumpled on the stone floor One of his knees 
is broken (by the trap), but it was the fall that 
killed him. 

Another indication of the propensity 
Ereaden the Sage had for traps is found half 
way down the spiral stairs. It's another 
human, dressed in a similar manner to the first 
victim. This one, a woman, lies dead on the 
stairs, a massive wound in her side. Again, a 
thief can determine what happened: she 
unwittingly triggered another trap, this time a 
scything blade which slashed out from the 
wall. After felling her, it retracted. As with the 
trap above, this was triggered by applying 
weight on one of the stone steps. PCs might 
be worried that the trap has reset itself; in 
fact, it must be re-armed by hand. Thus, it's 
safe to use the staircase. Trying to disarm this 
trap cannot accidentally trigger it. 

There are no other traps on the stairway. 
The spiral staircase ends in room 1 of the 
Sage's Tower map. 

The Sage's Tower Locations 
Unless otherwise noted, the entire building is 
in darkness. All ceilings are 10 feet high. 
Doors are typically brass-bound oak, and not 
locked. 

1. Stairway Room 


You're in a square room 15 feet on a side. 
The walls, ceiling and floor are unoma- 
mented stone, lighter in color and much 
smoother in texture than the rough-cut 
basalt that comprises the outside walls and 
the tower itself. At the foot of the spiral 
stairs you've just descended is a door 
There's no lock visible. 

The air is heavy with complex scents- 
animals, chemicals, blood, a hint of 
decay-sweet, sharp, constantly chang 
ing. 


Apart from the dead thief on the floor, the 
room is empty. The single door to the south 
isn't locked, but it's difficult to open (regular 
rolls for a dungeon door are required). This is 
because Ereaden has had the door ensorceled 
so that he doesn't have to open it by hand. 
The door is enchanted so that anyone wishing 
to open or close the door simply has to whisde 
within ten feet of it. If the door is closed, a 
whistle will cause it to open, and vice versa. 
It's this dweomer that makes the door a little 
hard to open by hand. 


The walls are lined with bookcases and 
scroll racks, and a large-and messy- 
table stands in the middle of the room. 
Piled beneath it are several dirty plates; 
this apparently doubles as the sage's din 
ing room. In the darkness, you can see 
that all of the bookcases and scroll racks 
are shimmering faintly with a blue-white 
light. There are several oil lanterns mount 
ed in racks on the wall, but all have burned 
out. The floor is carpeted. 


As befits Ereaden's paranoia-illustrated by 
the traps on the tower stairway-his study is 
trapped also. The bookcases and scroll racks 
are protected by a special dweomer similar to 
shocking grasp . Anyone touching the con 
tents of any shelf or rack without first saying 
the word of release-"insulsus," known only 
to Ereaden-receives 7-14 (ld8+6) points of 
electrical damage. There is enough dweomer 
in the entire bookshelf/rack complex to deliv 
er four such charges* .After the fourth, the 
shimmer disappears and the protection is 
gone. 

The shelves and racks hold little of interest 
to anyone but a sage. The books mostly con 
cern biology and ecology, with a few works 
that discuss meteorology and astronomy. 
None of the books or scrolls are of significant 
value. There are no magical tomes or man 
uals. 

The table, which is unprotected, is covered 
with parchments and open books. The books 
all deal with biology, and lie open at pages 
dealing with the ecology of Relmor Bay, with 
flying creatures, or with highly adapted mam 
mals, The parchments are Ereaden's own 
notes, dealing with the same topics* (From 
this reading material the PCs might deduce 
the nature of the creature Ereaden was study 
ing*) 

3* Ereaden's Bedroom 


The rough walls are covered with drapes 
of delicate gray cloth* Your feet sink sump 
tuously into the thick carpeting. Against 
the north wall is a large bed, covered in a 
spread of rich brocade. Beside it is a small 
night table, on which rests an oil lamp and a 
heavy, leather-bound book. A high ward 
robe stands in the northeast comer, its 
doors shut. You can smell a delicate scent 
that counteracts the complex odors else 
where, After a moment you identify it: 
sandalwood* 


The wardrobe, which is lined with sandal- 
w r ood, contains a number of robes, cloaks, 


etc*, all in varying shades of gray* In the pock 
et of one of the robes is a small gold amulet 
(nonmagical), worth 35 g.p. The book on the 
night table is Ereaden's idea of light reading: a 
speculative treatment of how intelligent life 
developed on the world of Oerth, A note on 
the flyleaf describes the book as a translation 
of a work by someone called Lysenko. No one 
quite knows where the original came from, 
because it was written in an unknown tongue 
and because it was printed on strange, almost 
glossy parchment. 

Under the bed is a small locked case which 
contains a bejeweled woman's necklace worth 
100 g.p* In the box with the necklace is a note 
scrawled in a feminine hand: "Keep your gift; 
I'll keep my freedom," With the case is a 
spellbook containing the spells affect normal 
fires, burning hands , comprehend languages, 
dancing lights , erase, feather fall , friends, 
hold portal, identify, jump, mending , mes 
sage, shield, spider climb, and write. The 
spells are inscribed in the same band as the 
note, 

4* Lavatory 


You recognize this room immediately as a 
lavatory. All of the fixtures are of the best 
materials-for example, the washbasin is 
fine white marble. Strangely, there's no 
pump by the basin, just a spigot arrange 
ment similar to the tap on a keg of beer. 


Water pressure to the washbasin tap is main 
tained by a magically driven pump that 
Ereaden has designed. The toilet uses a form 
of teleportation to relocate anything, organic 
or inorganic, deposited in it to the sewers 
below the tower (magical items receive a save 
vs. magical fire; nonmagical items receive no 
save). Only complete items or beings are 
affected (thus it cannot be used to remove, for 
example, the lid from a small chest, or a limb 
from an enemy). 

5* Kitchen 


You disturb dust on the floor as you open 
the door. Waist-high counters run along the 
south and west wall. A washbasin of pol 
ished metal is mounted in the southern 
countertop; a disk of dark iron is inset in 
the western counter. A great number of 
wooden cabinets are mounted on the w T alls 
and under the counters. 


Ereaden hasn't used the kitchen in years-in 
fact, not since he arranged with his neighbors 
to bring him food every day. The cabinets con 
tain cooking utensils, plates, cutlery, and 
some spoiled food (old flour and the like; noth- 


10 












ing foul-smelling or the sage would have 
remembered to get rid of it). The washbasin 
has a tap arrangement similar to that in room 
4. The dark iron disk is Ereaden's stove. The 
word "coquere" triggers a variant of the spell 
heat metal, and the iron reaches red heat in 
four rounds. The word "algor" turns off the 
effect, and the iron returns to room tempera 
ture in another four rounds. 

6. Storage Room 


This room looks like a collision between a 
chemistry lab and a pet supply store. Lab 
oratory glassware is piled everywhere- 
on shelves, on the floor-mixed in with 
small empty cages, muzzles, buckets of 
sawdust, bags of feed, and containers of 
exotic leaves. A particular shelf-the only 
one remotely organized-bears a bewil 


dering variety of vaguely medical-looking 
instruments. The air is enough to make 
your eyes water, a heady mix of tropical 
forests and the bite of disinfectant chemi 
cals. 


There's nothing of significant value here, 
although it may take the PCs some time to 
determine this. The medical instruments 
include four scalpels of different sizes. These 
can be used in combat as daggers {*1 "to 
hit"), although they aren't balanced for 
throwing {- 5 "to hit" when used in this way), 

7, Animal Room 


As you open the door, you're suddenly in 
the middle of a war. A handful of huge rats 
seemed to be fighting a pitched battle with 


an equal number of winged creatures. But 
now they're all after you, , . . 


The warring factions consist of three giant 
rats (AC 7; MV 12" 1/6"; HD Vz; hp 2, 3, 4; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-3; THACO 19; AL N(E); SA 
5% chance of causing serious disease) and 
two stirges (AC 8; MV 3'718"; HD 1 + 1; hp 
3, 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; THACO 15; AL N; SA 
drain blood for 1-4 hp per round). They 
escaped from their cages a couple of days ago, 
and since then they've represented each oth 
er's only source of food. Since they are able to 
fly, it might seem that the stirges have the 
advantage. Not necessarily so, since the 
stirges have to land on their chosen victim to 
feed, thus exposing themselves to the fangs 
of the other rats. The casualties (two drained 
giant rat corpses, one almost-devoured 
stirge) show that the odds are pretty even. 
Now that the door's open, however, all com 
batants are smart enough to realize that the 
door means freedom, and they're not going to 
let anything get in their way. Although they'll 
fight the PCs if necessary, the creatures' first 
priority is to get out of the room. If any rats or 
stirges get out into the corridor, 85% of ran 
dom encounters from then on will be with one 
or more of the escaped creatures. 


Unlike the rest of the building, this room is 
illuminated with an even, glare-free light. 
You notice that the whole ceiling glows 
with a cold white light. The walls are lined 
with small cages, most containing one or 
more creatures. There are lots of mice and 
normal rats, a number of cats, a few dogs, 
and two stirges who hadn't managed to 
escape. There are several cages whose 
frames have been gnawed through. 


The entire ceiling has been treated with a con- 
tinual light spell. Most of the animals in the 
cages are starving, and almost dead from 
thirst. In one comer of the room is a tap with a 
bucket under it. If the PCs feel pity for the 
incarcerated animals and let them free, the 
two stirges will attack immediately (AC 8; MV 
3"/18"; HD 1 +1; hp 2, 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; 
THACO 15; AL N; SA drain blood for 1-4 hp 
per round). The other animals will be 
aggravatingly underfoot for the rest of the 
PCs' time in the tower. 

8. Laboratory 


The door swings open . * . and suddenly 
something gray hurtles at your faces. With 
an almost inaudible screech, it's by, over 
your heads and out into the corridor. . . " 


The Sage's Tower A 


Scale: 1 inch = 5 feet N 



ll 















The creature is a type of bat (AC 7, MV 2"/ 
20"; HD 2; hp 10; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; THACO 
16; AL N; SA surprises on 4 in 6; SD immune 
to sleep , in fine flying conditions AC drops to 
3), light blue-gray in color, with a wingspan of 
almost four feet. It has no intention of attack 
ing the PCs; it just wants out. It flies rapidly 
toward the door into room 1. As it approach 
es, the door swings open (the bat's echolocat- 
ing squeals triggered the dweomer on the 
door), and the bat speeds through it, up the 
tower, and out the trapdoor at the top. In its 
panic, the bat's flight is so erratic that it 
receives a defensive bonus, dropping its 
armor class to 3 and giving it a +2 bonus to its 
save vs, spells. Its speed is so great that it's 
out of the tower in less than two rounds. 


You instantly realize that this must be 
Ereadens lab. The air is pungent: a 
strange animal musk blended with the reek 
of some tiling unpleasant burning. 

The guttering flame of a single gas burn 
er sets macabre shadows dancing on the 
stone walls. The burner rests on a marble- 
topped counter along one wall. In a stand 
over the burner is a flask, coated on the 
inside with the brown residue of liquid that 
has long since boiled away. Standing in the 
far comer is a set of wooden shelves on 
which stand a number of glass vials. Next 
to the shelves is a tall metal cabinet, like a 
cross between a wardrobe and a safe, its 
iron doors shut. 

In the center of the room is a table. Its 
marble top has grooves cut into it, leading 
to a drain at one end. Around the edges are 
attachments for straps, belts, and other 
means of restraint. One strap is buckled 
across the middle of the table, but the 
leather has been gnawed through and bro 
ken. A smaller table stands beside the 
marble- topped one. Arrayed on its spot 
less metal top is a collection of medical 
instruments. You notice there's a gray, 
crumpled shape under the table. 


The gray-clad crumpled shape is an aged 
human-Ereaden the Sage-and he's quite 
dead. His throat has been tom open by claws 
and fangs. His hands, too, are lacerated from 
when he tried unsuccessfully to fend off his 
attacker. The body has been dead for about a 
week. If any of the PCs examine the body, 
they'll notice that Ereaden's skin shows red 
blotches and edemas. The conclusion is obvi 
ous: he, too, had the disease. 

As soon as the PCs are distracted by their 
examination of Ereaden: 


Out of the comer of your eye, you see 
movement from one of the shelves. As you 
turn toward it, something sends several 
glass vials crashing to the floor. Then it 
hurls itself at you, pale gray wings spread, 
teeth bared. 


The creature is a second bat, identical to the 
one that made its escape (AC 7; MV 2"/20"; 
HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; THACO 16; AL 
N; SA surprises on 4 in 6; SD immune to 
sleep, in fine flying conditions AC drops to 3), 
The sage had the bats tranquilized using a 
herbal potion, and was examining them on the 
dissection table. One shook off the effects of 
the potion, however, and attacked Ereaden, 
killing him. Since then, the second has recov 
ered from the influence of the drug as well. 
When the PCs opened the door, one made a 
break for safety; the other hid among the 
shelves, hoping the intruders would leave. 
Now that they've entered the room, how 
ever, their proximity incites it to attack them. 
The bat attacks ferociously until it has sus 
tained at least four hit points of damage. At 
that point, it flees, trying to keep as far away 
from the PCs as possible. If they comer it, 
however, it will again fight, this time to the 
death. 

A couple of the vials that shattered on the 
floor contained liquid. The rest are empty. 
The shelves contain other glassware- 
beakers, flasks, tubes, and so forth. 

The metal cabinet is inscribed with a large 
rune. Any magic-users or illusionists will rec 
ognize the symbol as having something to do 
with the spell dispel magic or perhaps anti- 
magic shell , although they won't quite know 
how it relates. In fact, the entire cabinet has 
been treated with variants of both spells: no 
dweomer of any kind will function inside the 
cabinet or within 1 foot of it. (The sage had the 
cabinet built years ago as a "blast safe" for his 
ongoing magical experiments. If anything 
looked as though it were going awry, he could 
fling it into the cabinet, shut the doors, and 
prevent any ugly consequences while he puz 
zled out what had gone wrong.) 

The doors of the cabinet are secured with a 
single latch. The latch appears easy to open- 
just squeeze it with one hand, turn the handle 
ninety degrees, and pull-but anyone examin 
ing the latch to any degree will notice some 
thing amiss. Just below the handle is a 
discoloration, as though some kind of chemical 
had been spilled on the metal. A closer look 
discovers a pinhole in the center of the discol 
oration. 

This is a needle trap, of course. Once the 
trap has been set, opening the latch causes a 
poisoned needle to spring out of the hole, 
driving into the hand turning the handle. If the 


trap is triggered, the poison does 2-16 points 
of damage (save vs. poison for half damage). 
The arrangement of the latch is complex 
enough that obvious and simple ways to cir 
cumvent the trap (tying a rope to the handle, 
for instance) won't work. Also, its anti-magic 
properties prevent an unseen servant or oth 
er magical aid from doing the dirty work. 
Unless a thief can disarm the trap, or unless 
the players are remarkably innovative (DM's 
judgment is final on any harebrained 
schemes), someone must risk the damage to 
get into the cabinet. 

Inside the cabinet are five flasks of liquid. 
Two flasks contain the herbal tranquilizers 
that Ereaden used on the bats, (The effect of 
the liquid is similar to a sleep spell-the bat's 
natural immunity to this spell is wdiy it shook 
off the tranquilizer so quickly. If a character 
ingests the tranquilizer, he is allowed a save 
vs, spells for half duration.) One flask holds 
the poison used on the needle trap (if any of 
this is swallowed, the effect is worse: 2-16 
points of damage and save vs, poison or die). 
One contains a potion of flying. The final Cask 
contains a concoction that has an effect on the 
sickness afflicting the city. 

If this adventure is played independently 
from the overall campaign, the fifth flask con 
tains a herbal cure for the disease. Any quali 
fied herbalist or alchemist can analyze and 
duplicate the formulation. One practitioner 
can turn out 100 doses per day, at a cost of 1 
s.p. per dose. 

If this adventure is played as part of the 
ongoing campaign, the concoction in the flask 
is a treatment for the disease, but not a cure. 
Anyone who drinks one dose of the potion will 
not reach the final stage of the disease, and 
decreases in strength, dexterity, and consti 
tution are limited to 3 points each (rather than 
the normal 5), Taking the potion won't restore 
lost attribute points, but it will prevent further 
losses. Also, the potion won't protect anyone 
from contracting the disease (thus it won't 
work as an inoculation). One dose protects 
one person for one week. As above, any quali 
fied herbalist or alchemist can analyze and 
duplicate the formulation. As above, one prac 
titioner can turn out 100 doses per day, at a 
cost of 1 s.p. per dose. 

The cabinet also contains a book containing 
some notes Ereaden had made concerning the 
bats. Among the convoluted biological specu 
lations, there are two facts of real value: one, 
that the bats came from the area around 
Relmor Bay; and, two, that an acquaintance of 
Ereaden s in Rel Mord has heard stories that 
these bats were blamed (perhaps incorrectly) 
for the spread of the original Red Death. 

Random Encounters 

Should the PCs spend enough time wandering 














around the Sage's 'lower to warrant random 
encounters, the DM can use the following list 
(roll ld3)* 

L Rats (2-4): AC 7; MV 15"; HD V*; hp 1 
or 2 each; MT1; Dmgl; THAC0 20; ALN; 
SA 5% chance of causing serious disease. 

2. Large pedipaJp: AC 7: MV 12"; HD 
1 + 1; hp5; #AT 1; Drag 1-8; THAC0 20; AL 
N. 

3. Giant rat: AC 7; MV 12"//6"; HD Va; hp 
3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3; THACO 20; AL N(E). 

Concluding the Adventure 
If the PCs attempt to track the escaped bat by 
talking to people outside, they *11 find that very 
few people noticed it (it's silent in flight, after 
all, and its pale gray color makes it difficult to 
see by day or night). Those who did notice it 
will generally let fly with wild stories: "Man- 
sized death bats with flaming eyes"; "A 
mobat, yes it was, I heard its screech"; 
"Thousands of little buggers, all with 
spears"; "A were-bat that tried to suck my 
life out with its gaze"; "A flying man who 
spoke with the voice of Death"; and so on. 
From these fanciful stories, the PCs should be 
able to piece together what happened (albeit 
with some difficulty): the bat flew over the 
city wall almost due south * . * directly toward 
the shores of Relmor Bay, from where it 
came. 

When it attacked the PCs, the second bat 


knocked over some vials of chemicals, which 
broke and spread their contents across the 
floor. Two of these chemicals react, generat 
ing heat. Unless the PCs bother to clean up 
the mess (which is unlikely), the chemical 
reaction generates enough heat to set the 
Sage's Tower on fire two hours after the bat 
escapes. Because the city's firefighting force 
has been depleted by the plague, the tower 
bums to the ground. 

If the PCs decide to abide by their promise 
to Elara, they must take to her all of their loot 
from the tower. When they reach the Guild 
hall, they're treated in the same manner as 
during their first visit: they're led blindfolded 
into Elara T s presence, with all the same pre 
cautions. As before, Elara is blunt: "Well, 
what do you want?" When they explain their 
purpose, she makes a surprising statement: 
"Never seen you before in my life. Araman, 
throw them out before i decide to take their 
heads " She'll brook no argument (and if the 
PCs are smart, they'll offer her none). The 
PCs are blindfolded once more, and ejected 
from the Guildhall-none too gently, 

Elara's strange behavior is, of course, a 
result of another visit-and another charm- 
by Cymbelline. The PCs don't know this, 
however; neither does the Scarlet Brother 
hood's "mole" in Elara's guild (and neither 
does Cymbelline, if the truth be known; he did 
it while suffering from one of his "black 


outs"). This mole was present when his 
Guildmother denied knowing the people to 
whom she offered training not so very long 
ago. At the first opportunity, he passes this 
puzzling information on to his superiors. At a 
later date, the leaders of the Brotherhood 
may conclude this inconsistency to be evi 
dence that the PCs are "the foe," and that 
they're guided and aided by supernatural/ 
demonic help. 

Note: If any of the PCs have signed on with 
the guild, becoming official members, they 
don't get off the hook so easily. The 
arrangement-two years' service with the 
guild-was made with Araman, not with 
Elara, and his memory is in fine shape. . . * 

Cymbelline is nowhere to be found after the 
adventure* 

The Judgment of Fate 

As far as Istus is concerned, to succeed in the 
test the PCs must bring the plague-treatment 
potion out of the Sage's Tower, and must not 
leave behind any of their number slain by 
Ereaden's traps. If the PCs fail to meet both 
criteria , all thieves in Greyhawk lose 1 point of 
constitution. This loss occurs at the instant 
that the potion is destroyed, or when the PCs 
irrevocably decide to abandon the potion or a 
dead comrade* 


13 







Rel Mord 

Despite its location deep within Nyrond, 
Rel Mord is heavily defended and maintains 
the appearance of a huge fortress* Originally 
armored to protect itself against Nyrond T s 
conquered states (the County of Umst and 
the Theocracy of the Pale), the city watch 
now keeps its eyes toward the evil nations of 
the east. Any alert from Almor or the Flinty 
Hills is likely to arouse the city's battalions of 
light infantry, archers, and artillerists. In the 
two centuries since it was built, however, Rel 
Mord has never been scarred by warfare. 

As the political capital of Nyrond, the city is 
also a center of trade. Many caravans visit Rel 
Mord while traveling between Almor and the 
northwestern lands. Two groups travel heavi 
ly on the Dun tide River: hillmen from the 
Flinty Hills, who provide lumber from the 
Gamboge Forest, and merchants who trade 
precious metals and gems from dwarven 
mines in the Rakers. 

Rel Mord tends to be peaceful due to the 
abundance of Nyrondese soldiers* One group 
of soldiers, caked the sentinels, acts specifi 
cally as a police force. They are authorized to 
use deadly force "as necessary" though 
abuse of this liberty is not tolerated. Civil dis 
turbances are kept to a minimum, but crimes 
such as theft and murder are a problem 
because of the heavy trade in copper, silver, 
and gems. 

The capital of Nyrond is located on one of 
the vast grasslands which dominate the south 
eastern quarter of the continent. The Duntide 
River flows from northeast to southwest past 
the northwestern fringe of the city. 

Important structures (the city waks t for 
tresses, fortlets, temples, the City Dungeon, 
mansions) are built of stone, while more com 
mon buildings (shops, poor and common resi 
dences, warehouses, etc.) are built of brick 
and timber. 

Map Locations 
1* Royal Palace 

This massive stone structure is the residence 
of King Archbold III and his family, as wek as a 
smak number of advisors, high-ranking offi 
cials, and other important nobles. 

The palace is patroked by 100 Elite Guards 
(3rd-5th level fighters) equipped with plate 
mail armor, longs words, and small alarm 
horns. Intruders (who are rare but not 
unheard of) are captured for interrogation, 
then sent to the City Dungeon (area 16) to 
await trial at the Law Courts (area 15). 

2. City Fortress 

This structure is equivalent to a large castle, 
complete with gigantic towers topped by 


siege engines. It overlooks the Duntide River, 
the Fortress Bridge, and the only gap in the 
city wall. There are always 1,500 soldiers sta 
tioned here, mostly heavy cavalry and light 
(urban) infantry. Many soldiers are trained 
secondarily as archers and artillerists. Lead 
ing these troops is the General Prime, a 12th 
level cavalier who is loyal to Archbold III. 

Five docks extend out over the river. At any 
one time there are 2-5 small warships tied 
here, while the rest patrol the waters up and 
downstream from Rel Mord* Each day 1-4 
warships leave (carrying one captain, two 
lieutenants, five sergeants, and 50 soldiers) 
and 1-4 warships return. 

3, City Wall 

Rel Mord is surrounded by an immense cur 
tain wall, 30 feet high and 10 feet thick. Battle 
ments line the top, while a small tower 
extends out from the w T ak every 100 feet. Sol 
diers with alarm horns pace along the battle 
ments, and since the grasslands tend to be 
green and boring, the soldiers scan inside the 
city as much as outside* 

Besides the gap at the river, the wall is bro 
ken only by three main gates* Each of these 
passageways consists of a stone gatehouse 
manned by 20 soldiers. Normally the gates 
are kept open at all times, though in emergen 
cies the gates are closed and no one is allowed 
passage. The soldiers keep watch over ak 
who pass the gates* They question ak suspi 
cious persons and detain suspected criminals* 

4, Fortlets 

These two small castles are maintained as 
secondary defenses to the City Fortress. 
Each is manned by 250 soldiers and armed 
with several catapults. The Colonels who 
command these fortlets are trusted Nyron 
dese, and their loyalty to the King is unswerv 
ing* 

5, Shipyards 

Many merchant and passenger vessels dock 
at these rows of piers. Sailors, merchants, 
and travelers often crowd the shipyards, 
while hired guards (typicaky Iron Fist Guild 
warriors) watch for theft and brawling* Three 
large warehouses stand behind each of the 
two dock areas, and yardworkers busily 
wheel cargoes to and from these buildings. 

Next to the southern piers is the vardmas- 
ter's office. The yardmaster is an Bth level 
fighter who oversees matters in the ship 
yards. He makes sure that business runs 
smoothly and that those who use the docks 
and warehouses are properly charged* 

6* Food Market 

Farmers come from many leagues to sek their 
produce in this open area. Fresh fish, vegeta 


bles, and grain are sold from dozens of horse- 
drawn carts. In daylight the place is always 
crowded with customers from ak levels of 
society. Soldiers at the gatehouse and on the 
walls keep watch on the market in case of 
trouble. 

7, Goods Market 

This area is crammed with covered stalls from 
which peddlers sek various items* Goods 
available include daggers, arrows, clothing, 
most items listed under Miscellaneous Equip 
ment & Items on page 36 of the Players Hand 
book , and most items listed under 
Miscekaneous Utensils and Personal Items on 
page 219 of the Dungeon Masters Guide . 
Magic items are rarely sold here. Thieves and 
pickpockets abound in this place, despite the 
continuous presence of armed sentinels. 

8, Commoners 1 Residences 

These buildings house the city's middle class. 
Shop owners, craftsmen, merchants, and mil 
itary officers ak live here* The larger struc 
tures are apartments, with 3-6 families per 
building. Other buildings contain single fami 
lies of upper-middle-class commoners* These 
families often gather their resources to hire 
mercenaries (usuaky Iron Fist Guild mem 
bers) to patrol the streets and buildings, 
although the presence of military families 
keeps regular patrols in the streets. 

9* Iron Fist Guild Building 

Here mercenaries have gathered for over 70 
years. Half of the building is maintained as a 
tavern and temporary barracks, while the oth 
er half is the headquarters of the Iron Fist 
Guild* (See "Swords for Hire," Adventure 2, 
for details of the interior of this building.) 

10* Public Square 

Floored by blocks of granite, this open area 
has a wooden stand at the southern end. Here 
the royal criers announce new laws, important 
notices, and national successes. Criminals are 
occasionally executed here, primarily by the 
headsman's axe. Otherwise the square is 
merely a path for the many citizens who cross 
it to get to other areas* 

11. City Baths 

This building contains dozens of wooden tubs. 
Servants bring towels and buckets of water to 
the customers-mostly middle- and upper- 
class citizens, who prefer a proper bath to a 
swim in the Duntide* At the northern side of 
the building are the wood stoves that heat the 
river water* The baths are often crowded in 
the evening, when craftsmen and laborers 
cool off after long days at work. Prices are 2 
s*p. per hour for cold water and 4 s.p* per 
hour for hot water. 


14 






REL MORD 

Scale: 1 inch = 200 yards 


I. Royal Palace 
2* City Fortress 
3* City Wall 

4. Fortlets 

5. Shipyards 

6 + Food Market 

7. Goods Market 

8. Commoners' Residences 

9. Iron Fist Guild Building 

10. Public Square 

11. City Baths 

12. Temple of Ddleb 

13. Royal University 

14. Royal Minting House 

15. Law Courts 

16. City Dungeon 

17. Wealthy Residences 

18. Temple of Pdor 

19. Ruins 

20. Temple of Hextor 

21. Poor Residences 








12. Temple of Delleb 

Built of white marble, this building is dedi 
cated to Delleb, the Oeridian god of reason 
and intellect. Its walls are inscribed with let 
ters in Old Oeridian, a classic language which 
is spoken by all inhabitants of the temple. The 
inner shrine features a copper statue of Delleb 
as an old sage in simple robes, with books and 
scrolls in hand. Living in this temple are one 
6th level cleric, five 3rd level clerics, and nine 
1st level clerics. All have intelligence scores 
over 14 and can speak the five major languag 
es of Eastern Oerik (Common, Ancient 
Baklunish, Flan, Old Oeridian, and Suloise). 

13. Royal University 

Loosely connected to the Temple of Delleb 
(area 12), this great building is both school and 
library. Eight sages are employed here, each 
having expertise in either humankind, demi- 
humankind, the physical universe, fauna, or 
flora, as well as 2-4 special categories in his 
major field. 

Any character may try to learn a field of 
study by spending one non-weapon proficien 
cy slot in a major field, plus one additional slot 
per special category. Costs for such knowl 
edge are 25 g.p, and one month of intensive 
studies per slot used. At the end of the month, 
the character makes a 2dl0 Intelligence 
Check; success means knowledge of the field/ 
category at normal sage levels, while failure 
means poor academic results, and thus the 
character's chance of knowing an answer to a 
question is halved. Note that only an NPC 
sage may answer questions out of his major 
field of study. The library is stocked with 
scrolls on all major fields listed above. Anyone 
may use the library, though it is patrolled by 
sentinels who w T atch for thieves and vagrants. 

14. Royal Minting House 

This iron-clad structure contains the forges 
that create the copper and silver coins of 
Nyrond. Shapeless chunks of these metals are 
kept in a massive underground vault. Fifty 
laborers are employed here, many of them 
dwarven, while 300 sentinels keep watch on 
all operations of the mint. 

15. Law Courts 

Here legal matters in Nyrond are discussed 
and settled. T^venty-one judges oversee trials 
on matters that range from land disputes to 
crimes such as theft, murder, and unauthor 
ized dueling. Many scribes are employed to 


keep records of trials and judgments. Natu 
rally, sentinels are present in force. 

This building also contains the headquarters 
of Rel Mord's police force. There is a barracks 
for the sentinels and a w T ell-stocked armory. 
Scribes fill scrolls with the watchmen's 
reports and names of suspected criminals. 
Here also is the office of Nathus (10th level 
fighter) , the grand captain of the sentinels. 

16. City Dungeon 

This miserable place is a stone structure atop 
an underground network of dingy corridors 
and jail cells. Ventilation is achieved by a sys 
tem of air shafts. Three sets of spiral stair 
ways connect the five dungeon levels. These 
stairways are reached by iron doors which 
cannot be broken down by a character with 
less than 22 strength, (Teamwork doesn't 
count here; the force must be applied from a 
single blow.) 

At any one time there are 200 guards in the 
place, most of them in the upper building, 
which is the only exit from the underground 
levels. Temporary prisoners are held in the 
first and second underground levels while 
they await trial. Short-term prisoners live in 
the third and fourth levels, while permanent 
prisoners are kept in the fifth level- 
nicknamed the Rat Pit-where living condi 
tions are absolutely as bad as could be 
imagined. 

17. Wealthy Residences 

These small mansions are owned by Rel 
Mord's upper class-rich merchants, busi 
nessmen, and lesser nobles. Rows of well- 
groomed trees and bushes stand beside the 
mansions. Each home employs a few dozen 
servants and mercenary guards. Sentinels 
regularly walk the roads around these build 
ings, and some enjoy small gifts (food and 
wine, but not money) from the residents. 

18. Temple of Pelor 

Built in honor of Pelor, the god of light and heal 
ing, this stone structure has a modest chapel 
and various rooms for the sick and wounded. 
The clerics (one 9th level, three 4th level, five 
2nd level) servo the community with beneficial 
spells, especially those of healing. Any charac 
ter may ask the clerics for aid, and only those of 
evil alignment are refused. There is only one 
other restriction: no character may be raised or 
resurrected, because it would disrupt the natu 
ral process of life and death. 


19, Ruins 

This section of Rel Mord w T as a crowded area 
of commoners' residences until a fire 
destroyed most of it in 1152 Q.R. More than 
500 persons died in the smoke and flames. 
After the fire, clean-up crews complained of 
hauntings and strange occurrences, and the 
area was abandoned. Since then it has become 
overgrown with bushes and small trees. Half- 
burned sections of many buildings still stand, 
though they are weak and dangerous. 

Any character who spends time at night in 
this area has a 10% chance per hour of 
encountering a phantom , and a 5% chance per 
hour of encountering a ghost. Those who 
don't happen to meet any undead are likely 
(DM's discretion) to encounter the thieves 
and criminals who live here, hiding their 
stolen goods and themselves from the senti 
nels. who only occasionally patrol the ruins. 

Phantom: AC Nil; MV 9"; HD Nil; #AT Nil; 
Dmg Nil; AL Any; SA fear (save vs. spells at 
- 2 ). 

Ghost: AC 0; MV 9"; HD 10; #AT 1; Dmg 
Age 10-40 years; AL LE; SA magic jar, SD hit 
only by silver or magical weapons, and cannot 
be affected by spells from non-ethereal char 
acters. 

20, Temple of Hextor 

This structure is a monument of black marble 
and iron plates. The inside is lit only by torch 
es whose flickering light dances across blood 
stained walls and images of human skulls. Any 
zero- level character must save vs. death to 
enter the temple, and then must save vs, 
death again or flee from the building in terror. 
See "Swords for Hire" (Adventure 2) for 
information on the interior and inhabitants of 
this structure, 

21, Poor Residences 

These poorly maintained apartments are inha- 
bitted by Rel Mold's lower class-peddlers, 
laborers, tradesmen, and low-paid merce 
naries and soldiers. There are also many 
lesser criminals, and a lone traveler at night 
has a 10% chance per hour of encountering a 
pickpocket or a sword-wielding mugger. Sen 
tinels occasionally patrol the streets, but do 
not appear in large numbers without a specific 
task (such as breaking up a brawl or capturing 
wanted criminals) . 


16 









SWORDS FOR HIRE 


DlVTs Introduction 

This adventure is designed for three to five 
player characters, each of lst-3rd level. 
Fighters-the "regular" sort (not rangers, 
paladins, cavaliers, or barbarians)-are espe 
cially tested, and it is assumed that the party 
contains at least one such PC, while the com 
bat skills of all player characters are chal 
lenged. 

The rules on weaponless and non-lethal 
combat from Unearthed Arcana , pages 106- 
108, are necessary for several of the battles. 
However, note this rule modification (which 
should be explained, at least in vague terms, 
to players before their characters become 
involved in hand-to- hand fighting): A success 
ful grappling attack can inflict a number of hit 
points of crushing damage per round equal to 
the attacker's strength damage bonus. (Thus, 
only characters with strength 16 or higher can 
cause this damage.) The crushing damage 
begins in the round after a successful grap 
pling attack is made; no damage is inflicted in 
the round during which the hold is broken* 

Background and Set-up 

By following the clues in "The Sage's Tower" 
(Adventure #1), the PCs should eventually 
proceed to Rel Mord, the capital of the King 
dom of Nyrond* By the time they arrive, 
Morgorath has already made his presence 
known-this time in the guise of Alaric, a 
fighter of great renown. (See The Mirrors of 
Fate section of this work*) After what he went 
through before reaching Rel Mord, assuming 
leadership of the Iron Fist Guild (as per Istus's 
plan) was practically child's play. He "simply" 
approached the leader of the guild, a 9th level 
fighter, and promptly bested the man in a fair 
duel. (At least, the contest looked fair to out 
side observers, who didn't know about 
Alaric's "gaze weapon") Since taking over 
the guild of mercenaries, Alaric has smoothly 
but firmly consolidated his power while await 
ing the arrival of the PCs* 

Within minutes of the time the PCs enter 
the city, Alaric's network of messengers has 
made him aware of their presence. If the PCs 
start following up on their investigation of the 
plague (as they should be doing), they will 
probably be surprised to discover that the dis 
ease has apparently not broken out in this 
city-at least, not yet* If they make inquiries 
(the marketplaces would be the most logical 
places to do this), they'll be given a rather 
self- evident tip: if the disease has gotten any 
kind of a foothold, this has probably happened 
in the poor section of town, and any first-hand 
information they might gain would best be 
sought in that area* 

After the PCs have explored Rel Mord for a 
couple of days, Alaric decides to take action 
against them and begin the Test of the Fight 


ers. On his orders, a dozen guild warriors slip 
through the night in search of the PCs. * . . 

The Iron Fist Guild 

Rel Mord's mercenary organization was 
formed in 1148 O.R. by a Nyrondese captain 
who had fought in the expansionist campaigns. 
Seeking action in Nyrond's peaceful years, 
the captain called to arms all men who were 
willing to serve as warriors for pay only, not 
for reasons of ethics or nationalism. Scores of 
low- and medium-level fighters applied for 
membership, and the Iron Fist Guild was 
bom* 

Over the years, the purpose and makeup of 
the guild have changed somewhat. Nowa 
days, guild members (except for officers) can 
be no higher than 3rd level; any member who 
attains 4th level must either leave the organi 
zation or successfully duel an officer for his 
position* Through these self-governing mea 
sures, the guild manages to avoid friction with 
the military and with King Archbold himself, 
because the group never gets strong enough 
to be a threat to the bonafide government of 
the city and the kingdom. In return, the sol 
diers of the Nyrondese army generally leave 
the guild members alone to seek their for 
tunes. Guild members are hired as body 
guards for merchants, as watchmen for the 
yardmaster at the shipyards* and as 
strongarms for shady businessmen* Some are 
even involved in shipping on the Dun tide Riv 
er and in bounty hunts against bandits in the 
Flinty Hills. 

Though the public accepts and even appre 
ciates the presence of guild warriors, most 
ordinary citizens avoid the mercenaries 
because of rumors (not altogether unfounded) 
of guild-member brutality* The soldiers main 
tain a steady watch on the guild, though (as 
indicated earlier) the military is under stand 
ing orders not to harass the guild without roy 
al permission* 

When priests of Hextor arrived from the 
Great Kingdom, they secretly asked the Iron 
Fist Guild to help diem acquire victims for 
their sacrificial ceremonies. The guild officers 
agreed, and now an exchange of gold for vic 
tims is a regular source of income for the 
guild* Only officers and a few of the most 
trusted members know of the deal, and no one 
will ever willingly reveal it. 

A character who wishes to enter the guild 
must pass two requirements: first, a verbal 
recommendation from a guild member, and 
second, a duel against a fighter of at least two 
levels higher than the challenger* The duel 
must be fought with weapons (each combat 
ant's choice) and no armor (although dexterity 
adjustments to AC do apply), but is not a fight 
to the death; when one character suffers dam 
age that would reduce him to zero hit points, 


he is instead left with 1 hit point, and his oppo 
nent is declared the victor. The duel must be 
fought before the guild's officers (and as many 
members as wish to attend). Courage and 
fighting skill must be shown. Even if the pro 
spective member loses the duel, the officers 
and other members may vote him into mem 
bership. 

Members pay 1 g*p. per month to the guild, 
but demand at least twice the normal cost for 
expert hirelings from employers: 2 g.p. per 
week for low-risk guarding, 4 g.p. per week 
for high-risk guarding and bounty hunting, 
etc* 

Presently the Iron Fist Guild has 84 mem 
bers: fifty zero-level fighters, twenty-one 1st 
level fighters, nine 2nd level fighters, and four 
3rd level fighters* The guild is overseen by 
Alaric and his right-hand man, Bakrak. 

Bakrak-male 5th level fighter: AC 5- 
chain mail; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 36; #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon type: Str 17, Int 12, Wis 12, Dex 
10, Con 12, Cha 10; THACG 16; AL NE. Pro 
ficiencies: longbow, longsword, shortsword, 
battle axe, alertness, land-based riding. 

First Encounter: The Arena 

In the late afternoon or evening two or three 
days after the PCs enter Rel Mord, they are 
walking through an alley in the poor section of 
town. Suddenly, at some point when they are 
gathered in a tight group, walking or standing 
still, Bakrak jumps out of a doorway in front of 
them. He throws a waterskin to the ground in 
front of the PCs, and it breaks, releasing a 
cloud of sleep gas* The two PCs closest to the 
cloud are automatically affected; the others 
must save vs. poison to avoid being affected 
as per a sleep spell. The gas dissipates within 
seconds, after which a band of guild members 
rushes forth to surround the PCs* 

Guild members (11)-1st level fighters: AC 
7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 7-10 each; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-8 (longsword); THACO 20; AL LE. 

These warriors keep their swords sheathed 
and attack the PCs with bare hands. Up to 
three warriors will attempt to grapple each 
conscious PC. Grapplers have a -1 penalty 
on initiative rolls, but attack at +2 "to hit" for 
each second or third attacker on a single PC. 
Any successful grapple attack holds the PC 
motionless while Bakrak pours sleep potion 
down the captive's throat. If any of the PCs 
are on the verge of escaping, Bakrak will pull 
out a second waterskin and burst it as close to 
the fleeing PC(s) as possible, even at the risk 
of affecting his own men. The bottom line, of 
course, is that every PC should be taken cap 
tive without suffering any injury (loss of hit 
points). 

The captured PCs awaken in area G inside 
the Temple of Hextor (location #20 on the city 
map; see below for details of the temple inte- 


17 




nor), each one in a separate cell. They wear 
only normal, simple clothing* All of their 
weapons, armor, equipment, jewelry, rings, 
spell components, and other personal items 
are missing. Thus their armor classes are 10, 
not counting adjustments for dexterity. How 
ever, the hit point scores of each character are 
at maximum. 

The PCs do not know that their items are 
held in area B of the temple, or even that they 
are in the Temple of Hextor. 

Within one turn, 15 warriors (all zero-level) 
appear at the edges of the pit (area F) and 
begin muttering among themselves. Then 
two tough-looking fighter-types (Alaric and 
Bakrak) and a man in black robes (the High 
Priest of the temple) arrive along the western 
edge of the pit. Alaric raises both hands, and 
the warriors become silent. 

Alaric says to the PCs, "In the tradition of 
true combat, we have prepared a contest 
which will test the strength of many. Today 
you shall see fighting in its purest form-no 
armor, no blades, no rules. Let these battles 
inspire you to maintain the fighting spirit of 
true warriors." 

If any player character says anything, Alaric 
points to him/them and says, "You shall go 
first" 

Now the PCs are sent into the arena, one by 
one. When chosen for combat, the character's 
cell portcullis is lifted up. To determine the 
order in which characters are sent out, first 
send those which Alaric chose. Next send 
them out in order of physical toughness (total 
of strength and constitution scores), from the 
toughest down to the weakest. 

Each prisoner does battle with a warrior of 
the Iron Fist Guild, one by one (at first) until 
one of the combatants is rendered uncon 
scious. If the prisoner loses, his body is 
thrown back into the cell. Any prisoner who 
wins is ordered to return to his cell. If he 
refuses for any reason, he will be set upon by 
as many of the zero-level warriors as are nec 
essary to pummel or grapple him into uncon 
sciousness and then dumped back into his cell. 

The first guild warrior to appear for combat 
is Ogarro, a 3rd level fighter (AC 10; MV 10"; 
AC 10; HD 3; hp 25; #AT 3/2 when grappling; 
Dmg by weapon type; Str 18/00, Int 9, Wis 
12, Dex 9, Con 18, Cha 8; THAC0 18; AL 
CE* Proficiencies: grappling specialization, 
longsword, two-handed sword, battle axe, 
endurance). His grappling specialization 
allows him +1 on initiative rolls when grap 
pling against a barehanded opponent, and +1 
"to hit" when attempting to grapple. His spe 
cialization also causes +2 points of grappling 
damage per round, for a total of 8 hp of crush 
ing damage per round. His favorite fighting 
technique is to squeeze opponents. 

If Ogarro is somehow beaten, he is left in 


the pit while the next prisoner battles the next 
guild warrior, Caradine, a 2nd level fighter 
(AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2: hp 18; #AT 3/2 when 
pommeling; Dmg by weapon type; Str 12, Int 
11, Wis 10, Dex 18, Con 18, Cha 12; THAC0 
20; AL LE. Proficiencies: pommeling speciali 
zation, longsword, short sword, longbow, 
alertness, direction sense). His specialization 
allows a +1 initiative bonus when pummeling 
against unarmed opponents. He punches at 
+ 1 "to hit" and inflicts 3-5 points of damage 


(1-3 +2 for specialization) with mailed fists. 
His chance to stun an opponent is 48% per hit 
due to mailed fists. 

If Ogarro and Cara dine are beaten, the 
remaining PCs must battle two opponents at 
once. These opponents are 1st level fighters, 
similar to those encountered in the alley. They 
use a combination of grappling and pummeling 
styles against each PC, who must defeat them 
both to win the fight. Two fresh warriors 
enter each new battle until all of the PCs have 



18 































fought at least once. 

When the battles are finished and every PC 
is back in a cell, any of them who have 
regained consciousness are again subdued 
with sleep gas (in preparation for the next 
phase of the adventure). 

Second Encounter: The Lieutenant 

The PCs awaken in a dingy prison cell on the 
uppermost level of the City Dungeon (area 16 
on the city map). They are dressed the same 
as when they fought in the arena, though their 
clothes are now more ragged (because of the 
fights they've been in). All of their armor, 
weapons, equipment, and personal items 
remain missing (and are actually in the upper 
building of the dungeon). However, all of their 
hit point scores are at maximum again. 

At the iron door are two sentinels, 1st level 
fighters (AC 5-chain mail; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 
7, 10; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (longsword); THAC0 
20; AL LN). These guards wear the insignia 
of Nyrondese police, and are armed with long- 
swords. If the PCs pester them, one of the 
guards replies, "The lieutenant will be here to 
see you " Two turns later the iron door opens 
and in comes a tall warrior wearing chainmail 
and a blue cloak, with the silver, triangular 
badge of an officer. He sets a wooden stool 
outside the party's cell while the guards watch 
alertly. 

London-male 3rd level fighter: AC 3- 
chain mail, dexterity bonus; MV 12"; HD 3; 
hp21; Str 16, lnt 14, Wis 10, Dex 16, Con 10, 
Cha 16; THACO 18; AL NG. Proficiencies: 
longs word, shortsword, dagger, lasso, blind 
fighting, land-based riding. 

The lieutenant says, "My name is Landon. 
An officer of the Iron Fist Guild gave us a 
statement, but 1 want to hear your side of it. 
Why did you start a brawl in the Iron Fist Tav 
ern?" 

Landon listens to the PCs' reactions to this 
accusation, then says, "I was told that you 
entered the tavern around midnight and 
attacked several of the customers. The only 
reason we haven't executed you is because 
you didn't use your weapons, just bare 
hands," If the PCs describe the kidnapping 
and the arena duels, Landon listens carefully. 
Then he says, 'TU state your case to the 
judge this afternoon. But your story has no 
proof. The tavern customers are wounded, 
while you don't have a scratch, 

"Still," he continues with a knowing smile, 
"I have a hunch that your story is true, i'll 
have a talk with the judge and see if I can get 
you free by tonight." Then he leaves. 

It should be apparent to the PCs that their 
best course is to sit tight and wait for what 
ever help Landon might be able to provide 
them. However, the DM should give the play 
ers some time to lament over their charac 


ters' current situation. They don't know what 
time of day it is, so they won't be able to tell 
when "tonight" has come and gone. After a 
few hours pass, PCs might start thinking, and 
talking, about trying to escape. 

If the PCs do attempt to escape from the 
City Dungeon, they find strong resistance 
from the reinforced bars, iron doors, and well- 
armed sentinels. Even if they make it into the 
streets, they will be stalked by teams of bow- 
wielding soldiers, and can expect no help from 
the citizens of Rel Mord. Still, they might 
even get past the city walls, and if the Nyron 
dese soldiers don't find them, the adventure 
is finished {and Morgorath's test is failed). If 
the PCs are recaptured, they are locked up in 
the lowest level of the dungeon and forgotten. 

Third Encounter: The Mission 

The player characters are left in the cell for a 
little more than one full day. On the afternoon 
of the second day of their imprisonment, the 
lieutenant returns with a scroll and reads 
aloud: 

"For their crimes against the people of the 
Kingdom of Nyrond, each prisoner shall be 
fined 500 gold pieces, or a combination of pos 
sessions whose worth shall not be less than 
500 gold pieces, or all of the prisoner's pos 
sessions, whichever amounts to the lowest 
value. These are the orders of Sir Gadron, 
Judge-officer of Rel Mord." 

If the PCs protest, Landon replies, "It's 
better than public flogging, which the judge 
was seriously considering." If he is asked 
about the delay in getting back to the PCs, 
Landon halfheartedly apologizes and explains 
that things took longer than he thought they 
would. "You should be grateful," he says. "If 
the judge had made a decision quickly, you'd 
probably be feeling the lash right now " 

The cell is unlocked, and Landon leads the 
PCs to the upper building, where all of the 
party's possessions (minus any money and/or 
items taken to pay the fine) are heaped on a 
table. As the PCs gather their equipment and 
put on their armor and gear, Landon sends the 
guards outside the room and says, "While 
we're alone, 1 should tell you that your busi 
ness with the Iron Fist Guild may not be fin* 
ished, If you're interested in doing a job for 
me, and if you succeed, I can get back the 
money and possessions you've lost and add 
500 extra gold pieces for each of you, as well" 

If the PCs are interested, he says, "For 
months I have suspected that the Iron Fist 
Guild has been providing victims for the Tem 
ple of Hextor, but the city officials won't let 
me investigate because they are afraid of 
starting problems with the temple priests. As 
long as the priests don't cause open trouble, 
the politicians prefer to leave them alone. But 
if you can find positive evidence of kidnapping 


or murder, then I'll have public support to 
prosecute the priests and the guild members 
who are behind the plot." 

If the PCs are reluctant to agree to the job, 
Landon tries more persuasion, "If you have 
great success, I'll petition the king to hold a 
heroes' banquet in your honor There'll be 
money and gifts for all of you." 

He will agree to pay half of the 500 g.p. (per 
PC) in advance, but only if the player charac 
ters request it. (They may need some money 
to replace items that were confiscated to pay 
the fine.) Whatever their decision, they are 
now free to leave the dungeon. 

If the PCs request and accept an advance 
payment from Landon, they are committed to 
following through on their promise, Landon 
will alert the sentinels at the gates to watch 
for them. The PCs can wait as long as they 
like to start their investigation, but if they 
ever try to leave the city without attempting 
to earn their advance money and reporting the 
results to Landon, they will be arrested at the 
gate and returned to the dungeon. 

The mission they have agreed to is not 
without its dangers, hut the PCs need not fear 
breaking the law on a minor scale (breaking 
and entering, petty theft, assault and battery) 
as long as such criminal acts are committed in 
the course of their mission. If they are appre 
hended, they will be summarily hauled off to 
the dungeon-whereupon they will be visited 
by Landon and set free to resume their mis 
sion. 

The party may explore any location in the 
city for some reason or another, but their path 
will eventually lead to either the headquarters 
of the Iron Fist Guild or the Temple of Hextor, 
or perhaps both places. (In feet, both locations 
will have to be examined in order to bring back 
the positive proof that Landon needs.) 
Detailed descriptions of these buildings are 
given below. 

Iron Fist Guild Building 

Only people in the company of a guild member 
of 2nd level or higher are allowed to enter the 
halls and rooms behind the front office (room 
A), and only these high-ranking members of 
the guild know of the traps and secret doors 
there. The doors to rooms B, F, and G are 
double-locked at all times, as is the door to 
room C during the evening and nighttime, so 
that all chances to pick those locks are halved. 

A, Front Office 

This room contains Alaric's desk (more 
showy than functional; it has no drawers or 
secret compartments) and a long counter near 
the outer door. Two broadswords are hung in 
an X-shape on the back wall. 

During any daylight hour there is a 10% 
chance of a would-be employer (a merchant, 


19 






commoner, or whoever) being in tills office, 
Alaric often tends to the business, but some 
times employers are met by a scrawny, shifty- 
eyed scribe named Gazem. The guild officers 
use his services as a writer and bookkeeper, 
but have little respect for him. 

Gazem -male zero-level scribe: AC 10; 
MV 10"; hp2: MT 1 (at -1 "tohit"); Drug 1- 
4 (dagger); Str 6, Int 15, Wis 9, Dex 12, Con 
14, Cha 12; THACO 20; AL LE. 

If this adventure is played as part of the 
overall campaign, note the following informa 
tion: 

On the desk, waiting to be discovered by 
any character who has at least a few seconds 
to examine the few papers scattered across 
its surface, is a letter addressed to Alaric that 
reads: "Outbreak of the disease in Jumre in 
the County of Ulek. Host creature suspected 
to be there " The letter is signed: "Helen, 
Archcleric of Istus " If this adventure is played 
as an independent mission, the desk contains 
nothing of special interest (although PCs 
might still try to search it, just in case). 

In the daytime, there is a 50% chance that 


Alaric is seated at his desk when any PCs 
enter. If he is not there, the office is manned 
by either Gazem or Bakrak (50% chance for 
each), Bakrak will recognize the PCs and 
growl at them to get lost, backing up his order 
with force if need be. Alaric will recognize 
them but will humor them so long as their rea 
son for approaching him seems to be legiti 
mate, If the PCs say that they intend to hire 
guild members for some purpose, Alaric will 
direct them to Gazem f s office to do the neces 
sary paperwork. If Gazem is in the outer 
office, the scribe will likewise be glad to do 
business with them, if that is what they have 
come for, but will not take them into his own 
office. If any of the three guild personages is 
threatened verbally or physically, he will 
sound an alarm that brings six guild members 
(1st and 2nd level fighters) from various parts 
of the building within 1 round. 

In the evening (any time after sundown) this 
room is vacant. 

B. Scribe's Office 

In this chamber are Gazem's desk and file 


shelves. The desk is covered with papers and 
a quill-and-ink set. In the desk is a small bag 
with 45 g.p. Next to the desk is a small cot 
with a single coarse blanket. The wall shelving 
is cluttered with files of employer lists, pay 
ment records, and personal descriptions of 
guild members. 

For any character who studies these files 
(in secret, of course), the DM makes a 5d6 
Intelligence Check each turn, A successful 
check indicates that the character has uncov 
ered documents concerning monthly pay 
ments received by the guild from the Temple 
of Hextor, and a record of "goods" delivered 
to Hextor s priests, (Unfortunately, though, 
these documents do not constitute unmistak 
able proof of the dealings between the guild 
and the temple, since they are all in Gazem's 
handwriting, and the priests, if confronted, 
could simply claim that the papers are an 
attempt to frame them. This, in essence, is 
what Landon will tell the PCs if they return to 
him with this much evidence-they need more 
proof than this to establish the connection.) 

If Gazem is not in room A during the day- 



Iron Fist Guild Building 

Scale: 1 square = 5 feet ^ N 




























time, there is a 75% chance that he is here 
instead, fussing with his records. He will not 
take kindly to being disturbed, but will not 
raise an alarm unless PCs start snooping 
around in his files without his permission 
(which, of course, he will never give). 

At night there is a 95% chance that Gazem 
is here, either catching up on work (30%) or 
sleeping (70%). 

C. Trophy Room 

This lampkt chamber contains glass cases full 
of armor and weapons from many parts of the 
continent. Many of these items are antiques, 
or are from faraway lands, and so are worth 
two to three times their normal values. None, 
however, are magical 

Guild members (with an appropriate escort) 
can visit the museum any time when either 
Alaric or Bakrak is in room A. Nonmembers 
can also visit this room, but must pay 5 g,p, 
each, and any nonmembers must be accompa 
nied by an equal number of high-ranking (2nd 
level or higher) guild members. 

In the southern comer are a variety of 
swords: a hailing shorts word from the Cairn 
Hills; a hooked sword from the Scarlet Broth 
erhood; an ancient ceremonial broadsword 
from the Great Kingdom; a scimitar from the 
Caliphate of Ekbir; a devilish rune sword from 
the Homed Society. 

Also on display are several other melee 
weapons: a short dwarven battle axe from the 
Lortmil Mountains; an ugly iron axe from ores 
in the Bone March; a hooked spear from 
marines in the Aerdi Sea; a serrated harpoon 
from the Rhennee of Nyr Dyv; a 15-foot-long 
lance from the Shield Lands. Also present are 
a few missile weapons: a fur-trimmed long 
bow from the Wblf Nomads; a slender elfin 
bow from the Celadon Forest; a blowgun from 
the Amedio Jungle* 

In the northern comer is a suit of full plate 
armor from the Shield Lands, complete with a 
large, visored helmet, a kite shield, and a 
cross-shaped broadsword. Near it are glass 
cases displaying other armor pieces: a chain 
mail hood from the Kingdom of Furyondy; a 
massive jousting helmet from the Archclericy 
of Veluna; a bronze helmet with red turban 
from the Sultanate of Zeif; golden, elfin chain 
mail from the Kingdom of Celene; a colorful 
feather war headdress from Hepmonaland. 

D. Pit Trap 

This short hallway ends at a false door. Touch 
ing the latch triggers a pit trap. When the trap 
is sprung, the floorboards for 15 feet in front 
of the door swing down, dropping characters 
into a 10-foot-deep hole for 2-12 hp damage 
each. In the daytime, springing the trap 
causes a commotion just as if an alarm had 
been sounded (see room A). At night, the 


noise will awaken anyone in the building who 
is sleeping and (except from 2 a.m. until sun 
rise) will also attract 13-24 (Id 12 +12) drunk 
en patrons from the tavern (room J). 

E. Stairway Trap 

This short hallway ends at a stairway which 
leads up to a false door. Touching the latch 
triggers a blade trap. When the trap is sprung, 
the individual stairs rotate to razor-sharp edg 
es, like rows of horizontal swords leading up 
to the door. 

Each character on the stairway immediately 
takes 0-2 (ld3 - 1) hit points of damage, and 
must save vs. death or roll down the stairs for 
an additional amount of damage equal to his 
armor class plus 1-4 (thus, a character with 
out armor, AC 10, takes 10 + ld4 points of 
damage). Anyone who makes the save must 
then make a 3d6 Dexterity Check to get safely 
off the bladed stairway; failure indicates a fall 
for full damage as specified above. 

F. Alaric*s Bedchamber 

A simple bed stands against the back wall, 
next to the barred window. A locker under the 
bed contains various clothing, a dagger, and a 
short sword. Hidden above the boards in the 
ceiling is a bag containing 256 g.p, In the east 
ern comer of the room is a small treasure 
chest which is trapped to release sleep gas if 
the lock is touched before the trap is dis 
armed . The chest is empty. From sundown 
until 2 a.m. there is a 20% chance that Alaric 
is here, and a 10% chance that he is asleep. 
From 2 a.m. until one hour after sunrise there 
is an S0% chance that Alaric is here and sleep 
ing, At all other times the room is vacant. 

G. Bakrak's Bedchamber 

This room contains a simple bed, a large chest 
full of clothing, and an empty desk. A large 
battle axe is tied under the bed and can be 
removed in one round. Hidden between the 
desk and the west wall is a bag holding 192 
g.p. From sundown until 2 a.m. there is a 50% 
chance that Bakrak is here, and a 35% chance 
that he is asleep. From 2 a.m, until sunrise 
there is a 90% chance that Bakrak is here and 
sleeping. At all other times the room is 
vacant. Note that Bakrak's exceptional alert 
ness almost always (90%) causes him to 
awaken as soon as he subconsciously detects 
the presence of someone else in the room, 

H. Trapped Bedchamber 

Once the sleeping room of a third guild officer, 
this chamber now serves to deter thieves, 
When the door is opened, an alarm sounds 
(consequences as described in room A and 
room D above) and a spear trap fires out a 
spear. The first character in the doorway 
must save vs. paralyzation or take 1-6 hit 


points of damage from the weapon. Otherwise 
the room is empty. 

1, Storage Closets 

These small areas contain shelves with stacks 
of pillows and blankets. Besides ink bottles, 
lanterns, candles, and bottles of lamp oil, 
there is nothing else of interest, 

J f Iron Fist Tavern 

This drinking hall is decorated with armor 
pieces and weapons along its walls. It contains 
50 chairs around 10 tables and 20 stools at the 
bar; by late evening every seat may be filled, 
A chandelier holding 50 candles hangs from 
the center of the ceiling (note that swinging 
from it is strictly forbidden). 

Ale and rum are served by the bar maidens, 
who tend to be physically and mentally tough 
in order to withstand the rowdiness of drunk 
en mercenaries. The bartender is a zero-level 
commoner with 18 strength and a dub always 
within easy reach on a shelf behind the bar. 

The tavern opens around noon and stays 
open well past midnight. It caters primarily to 
guild members; although others are not for 
bidden, they may certainly feel out of place. 
Nonmembers who are fighters of 2nd level or 
higher will get along well with this crowd, and 
(with a sufficiently high charisma score) might 
even be welcomed by the guild warriors. The 
number of customers in the tavern is ld6 per 
hour past noon, so at midnight there are 12-72 
patrons present. If the tavern is open for busi 
ness and Alaric or Bakrak has not been 
encountered elsewhere in the building, there 
is a 5% chance per hour past noon for each 
man to be here, to a maximum of 50%, 

By late evening the customers begin to get 
wild. In addition to card and dart games, there 
are often arm- wrestling and knife-throwing 
contests. Fighting in the tavern is officially 
forbidden, though it does happen; the partici 
pants in any especially spirited argument are 
ushered outside to settle their differences. 
Sentinels often patrol the area around this tav 
ern and arrest drunken, brawling guild mem 
bers. 

K, Barracks 

Once part of the tavern, this area has been 
sectioned off and converted to a makeshift 
barracks. Three rows of cheap cots (10 per 
row) fill the room, and each cot has a single 
blanket and pillow. Only guild members may 
sleep here, and the accommodations (availa 
ble by contacting the bartender) are free for 
the asking as long as there is an empty bed. 
Only extremely inebriated and/or poor mer 
cenaries tend to use the barracks, since they 
prefer the security and privacy of the inns and 
apartments of Rel Morel. 


21 












L" Storage Room 

This small room contains shelves kept 
stocked with blankets* pillows* buckets* cups, 
and rum bottles. There are also 2-3 kegs of ale 
here in the daytime, but no kegs left by mid 
night. 

The Temple of Hextor 

As noted in the brief description of this build 
ing in the text section on the city of Rel Mord t 
any zero-level character must save vs, death 
to enter the temple* and then must save vs. 
death again or flee back out the door in terror. 
This stricture does not apply to the PCs* of 
course, since they are ail at least 1st level 
characters, but would affect any zero-level 
character {Gazem the scribe, for instance* or 
a mercenary who has been charmed or 
bribed) whom they might have managed to 
recruit for assistance. 

The temple's priests are not true clerics, 
but are fighters who have been "blessed" 
(because of their acceptance of Hextor) with 
certain spell-like innate abilities. They include 
one black-robed High Priest (the man the PCs 
saw earlier during their session in the arena)* 
two red-robed Red Priests, and four gray- 
robed Gray Priests, All radiate a continual 
aura of protection from good. The High and 
Red Priests can use the power of confusion 
(duration 5 rounds) twice per day, while the 
High Priest can also cause fear (as a 7th level 
magic-user) once per day. All wield scimitars 
in melee combat. 

High Priest-male 3rd level fighter: AC 8; 
MV 12"; HD 3; hpl5; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (scimi 
tar); THACO 18; AL LE; SA & SD spell-like 
abilities. 

Red Priests (2)-male 2nd level fighters: 
AC 9; MV 12"; HD 2; hp 13* 10; MT1; Dmg 
1-8 (scimitar); THACO 20; AL LE; SA & SD 
spell-like abilities. 

Gray Priests (4)-male 1st level fighters: 
AC 10; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 6, 4* 4* 3; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-8 (scimitar); THACO 20; AL LE; SD 
protection from good , 

The exterior doors of the temple are always 
unlocked. Every other door is double-locked, 
meaning that the chance for a thief to pick the 
lock is halved. The doors are thick wood band 
ed with iron, and can only be broken down by 
a blow from a character with at least 19 
strength. The High Priest and the Red Priests 
carry keys to rooms A, B, and E. The Gray 
Priests have keys to room C* and each of the 
Red and Gray Priests has a key to his personal 
living quarters (rooms D), 

A. Library 

This chamber contains shelves of moldy 
books and scrolls. The written material deals 
with legends of Hextor and his rival* Heiro- 
neous (the Oeridian god of chivalry and jus 


tice), There are also various works on 
deviltry and the Nine Hells. There is a 50% 
chance at any hour of the day or night that the 
High Priest is inside* doing research. He will 
be surprised if a PC manages to pick the lock. 
If characters simply knock on the door and he 
is inside* the High Priest will open the door to 
see what they want. 

B, Storage Chamber 

This unlit room contains the equipment of 


those slain by Hextor's priests. There is a 
great amount of clothing, plus some half- 
rusted armor and weapons. Also present are 
heaps of decaying corpses and human bones. 
Under no circumstances will the High Priest 
or the Red Priests voluntarily open this door, 
although they may do so if their lives are in 
jeopardy. The deceased cause a stench equal 
to a stinking cloud within the room. Worst of 
all, the chamber contains three ghouls who 
attack anyone except the priests, whom they 



22 










instinctively fear. 

Ghouls (3): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 14,12, 
9; #AT 3; Drug 1-3/1-3/1-6; THACO 16; AL 
CE; SA paralyzing touch; SD immune to sleep 
and charm. 

If the ghouls are overcome and the room is 
searched, there is a cumulative chance of 10% 
per round of searching that the PCs will dis 
cover some physical evidence (a piece of dis 
tinctive jewelry, personal keepsake, etc,} that 
will positively identify at least one of the 
bodies-and the name of that person appears 
in the records that are kept in the office of 
Gazem (he scribe in the headquarters of the 
Iron Fist Guild. The PCs can succeed in prov 
ing the connection between the temple and 
the guild if they report back to Landon with 
both of these pieces of evidence. 

C. Hall of the Blood-Pool 

In the center of this torchlit chamber is a 1- 
foot-deep pit filled with blood-like liquid. 
When consumed, the liquid causes a good- 
aligned character to suffer 2-8 points of dam 
age (save vs. poison for half damage), and 


gives an evil-aligned character the benefits of 
+ 2 HD/levels and +3d6 hp (as a potion of 
heroism) for one hour 
Two or three (DM's discretion) of the Gray 
Priests will be meditating at the pool when 
ever the PCs enter this chamber. The priests 
stand up, raise their scimitars, and say, 
"Stop! Only those sworn to Hextor may drink 
from the Pool of War-Blood! " Then they take 
quick drinks of the liquid and fight to the 
death, pursuing the PCs to other parts of the 
temple if necessary. However, they will not 
follow the characters if they leave the temple 
entirely, 

D. Personal Quarters 

These rooms contain wood-frame cots and 
wool mattresses. The room nearest the front 
door on either side is the quarters of a Red 
Priest, while the other four chambers belong 
to the Gray Priests, Both Red Priests are in 
their rooms, and if either one is encountered 
he wall raise an alarm that brings any other 
priests in area D to his aid within 1 round. One 
or two of the Gray Priest rooms are occupied, 


depending on how many priests the DM 
decides are meditating at the pool (room C), 

E. Shrine of Hextor 

This large chamber is the worship hall of the 
evil god. ft contains the combat pit, the prison 
cells, and the altar, all described below, 

F. Combat Pit 

The bottom of this sand-floored, octagonal 
area is 15 feet deep below the stone floor of 
the shrine. It can be entered by a rope ladder 
hung from the eastern side. Otherwise its 
iron-plated walls (smooth but nonslippery) 
must be climbed. 

G. Prison Cells 

Each of these eight small, sand- floored cages 
is closed off by a portcullis between the cell 
and the pit. The bars are reinforced steel, so 
all bend bars chances are halved. After the 
PCs have been through the First Encounter 
(see above), each cell has a 10% chance of 
containing a prisoner (roll ldlO: 1-3 = a 1st 
level fighter; 4-8 = a zero-level male com- 



Temple of Hextor 

Scale: 1 square = 5 feet_N 


ff 


23 










moner; 9-10 = a zero-level female common 
er), 

H. Altar 

This stone platform is stained with the dried 
blood of many sacrifices. Behind it is a 12- 
foot-tali statue of Hextor as a six-armed 
demon. On its forehead is a symbol of fear 
which when looked upon can affect all except 
Hextor's sworn followers (save vs. spells at 
- 2 to avoid). 

If the High Priest is not in the library (room 
A), he will be located here, kneeling before 
the altar in a meditative trance. If the PCs 
open the doors to room E without making a 
commotion and if they employ magic or mis 
sile weapons against the High Priest immedi 
ately, they will have the advantage of 
surprise. Otherwise the High Priest will 
notice them and take action against them 
before they can get close enough to engage in 
melee combat . 

Concluding the Adventure 
As the chief antagonist, Alaric is in charge of 
the guild and its reaction to the PCs' investi 
gation. His intentions-as per his directive 
from Istus-are to challenge them, not 
destroy them, so if he is involved, he will be 
sure they are not seriously injured or killed if 


they are apprehended inside the guild budd 
ing. However, Bakrak and the priests will 
fight to the death, while the guild mercenaries 
can be subdued or fail morale as normal. 
Unbeknownst to all of the others who may 
become involved, Alaric is actually on the 
PCs' side. He will consider the test a success 
if the party fulfills Landon's needs. Whether 
or not he is satisfied with the PCs' perform 
ance, he leaves on a caravan bound for Jumre 
in the County of Ulek-information that any 
military guard at a city gate will readily supply 
if asked. 

If the player characters deliver to Landon 
the files from Gazem's office plus the evi 
dence gathered in the "'ghoul room'' at the 
temple, Landon will feel confident enough to 
start a full investigation. As will be discovered 
when the files are examined, it is Bakrak-not 
Alaric-who was in league with the temple 
(with, of course, the knowledge and assist 
ance of Gazem), Thus, Landon will not be 
interested in prosecuting Alaric (and actually 
will be glad to see him leave the city). He will 
see that the PCs regain the money and pos 
sessions they forfeited to pay their fines, and 
will add the extra 500 g.p. apiece as promised. 

If the PCs bring back a live prisoner from 
the temple to Landon, he will call for a heroes' 
banquet at the Royal Palace. Such a celebra 


tion includes praise in the Public Square, a 
feast in the Great Hall of the Palace, and 
curing/healing spells from Pelor's clerics. 
Each PC also receives a gift of 3,000 g. p., plus 
a golden medallion which radiates protection 
from evil when worn as a necklace. The 
reward will be even greater if the PCs manage 
to bring in a priest or a mercenary for 
questioning-although such an event is highly 
unlikely. 

After the heroes' banquet and for as long as 
the PCs remain in Rel Mord, each of the char 
acters enjoys a +25% bonus to reactions with 
commoners and sentinels in the city. How 
ever, if a PC is caught abusing his popularity, 
the modifier becomes a -10% penalty. 

If the adventure is played as part of the cam 
paign and if the PCs fail to deliver conclusive 
proof to Landon before becoming unable or 
unwilling to continue the mission, all fighters 
in the Flanaess lose 1 point of constitution 
permanently. Assuming that the characters 
find out about where Alaric has gone, they 
should choose to continue the campaign by 
traveling to Jumre. (In fact, as they will find 
out subsequently, Alaric did not go all the way 
to Jumre with the caravan-or at least did not 
stay long. But that's a story for another 
adventure. ,, .) 










24 


j 









Jurnre 

Despite its modest size and undistinguished 
history, Jurnre is among the most peaceful and 
prosperous cities of the Flanaess. It is also 
one of the oldest, excepting certain settle 
ments in Ekbir, Zeif T and Tusmit that antedate 
the Invoked Devastation. From the time of its 
foundation nearly nine hundred years ago until 
the present day, Jumre has been an island of 
stability in the turbulent stream of history. 

In the aftermath of the final Bakluni-Suel 
conflict, the Suel lordling Immris of Rhola ral 
lied his household, crossed the Cry stalinist 
Mountains, and made his way across the 
Sheldomar basin. Like his more illustrious rel 
atives who settled in Keoland, Immris and his 
people were of that small fraction of Suelites 
who were honorable and sought peace, and 
disdained the use of goblinoid mercenaries. 
Immris and his people entered into alliance 
with the local h a I flin gs and gnomes, and with 
them founded a citadel on what they dubbed 
the Hill of Stars above the banks of the Kewl 
River. Many of Immris's troops and servants 
were Oeridian, and they were joined by Qeri- 
dian and Flan tribes who were attracted to his 
relatively peaceful and stable realm. In time 
the new society was augmented by a steady 
stream of refugee Suelites who had repented 
of war. Immris *s expert leadership and the 
shared dangers of those times welded these 
diverse peoples into a city and nation they 
called Jumre. 

The limestone soils about Jumre are rich, 
rainfall is ample, and there is seldom so much 
as a heavy frost. These factors, plus the city's 
location along the Kewl's navigable portions, 
and wise management combined to make 
Jumre wealthy without inciting greed or envy 
on the part of other kings and chieftains. 
Thus, when Rauxes was little more than a 
stockade and a collection of huts, Jumre was 
already a city with stone walls and paved 
streets. It has not known hardship or serious 
danger in the centuries since. 

Eventually Jumre was absorbed by peaceful 
alliance into the fledgling Keoish kingdom as 
the capital of the County of Ulek. When 
Keoish adventures abroad provoked Jumre to 
expel the king's garrisons, this was accom 
plished without violence, and ever since the 
Keoish crown's recognition of Ulek indepen 
dence {a century after the fact) relations have 
been cordial. The elvish and dwarvish realms 
to the north and south have been equally 
friendly. A brief siege of the city by refugee 
goblins and ores in 506 CY, at the height of the 
Hateful Whrs, and some unsuccessful attacks 
by the Sea Princes sailing up the Kewl at the 
nadir of Keoish seapower have had little last 
ing effect beyond the construction of watch- 


towers along the river and higher city walls. 
These events are distant history to the human 
citizens of jumre, and even the nonhumans 
have begun to forget. Not even the oldest 
gnome can remember the sight of enemies 
within the gates, 

Jumre is perhaps the most attractive city of 
the Sheldomar basin; it gives every evidence 
of its slow and graceful growth. The primary 
colors of the city are green and white: the 
green of numerous gardens both public and 
private, and the white of the substantial build 
ings (native limestone, stucco, some even of 
marble) and their distinctive white tiled roofs. 
The limestone streets and walls and the mar 
ble and bronze statues and fountains for which 
the city is so famous likewise contribute to the 
effect. Colorful striped awnings and pots of 
flowers and herbs decorate the doors and win 
dows of the most residences, adding splashes 
of brighter color. A system of cisterns and 
aqueducts supplies numerous public foun 
tains, and the streets are dean and well 
drained. Indeed, jumre has a reputation as 
the cleanest city of the Flanaess-a testament 
to haifling influence. 

Gnomish and haifling influence may be seen 
in the architecture of the city as well: the 
three hills have been extensively quarried and 
tunneled, and most homes are of the native 
limestone, and have substantial basements* 
Many buildings are interconnected beneath 
street level, and even public ways may plunge 
beneath the earth for a space. It is rare for any 
dwelling to exceed two stories in height. 
Instead, the skyline of the city is dominated by 
tail trees and by the expansive domes of the 
public buildings (a specialty of the local dwarv 
ish architects). The broad streets are lined 
with trees, and curve gracefully up and down 
the hills of the city, sometimes ending against 
one of the older city walls or a set of stairs. 
Like the public squares, they are paved with 
close-set limestone blocks. 

Jumre has two major marketplaces: the 
Harbor Market and the New Market, The 
Harbor Market is adjacent to the Kewl where 
the river traffic ties up behind a breakwater, 
while the New Market is in the middle of the 
present city, between the three hills. Order is 
maintained by the city guard, and spaces may 
be rented for a small fee, as may space along 
the docks. The funds for maintaining the mar 
kets are obtained through a tax of one part in 
ten on all items sold at the marketplace. Much 
of what is bought and sold in Jumre is derived 
from the nearby countryside: rice: oranges, 
lemons, and limes: karafruit; cheeses; tobac 
co; peppers; cotton; fine lumber from the 
county's carefully managed woodlands; and 
the powerfully sweet honey derived from the 
local citrus orchards as well as the yet more 
powerful mead which is brewed from it* In the 


crafts, Jnmre is well known for its weavers 
and dyers, its woodworkers, its stonemas 
ons, and its bronze casters, Jumre is also 
famous for its sweetmeats and pastries, and 
Jumrese cooks might almost be listed among 
Jumre's major exports as well. On the streets 
of Jumre itself, many sell food from carts, and 
there are numerous cafes and restaurants: 
Jumrese skill in hospitality is famed up and 
down the Sheldomar, 

Visitors are welcome enough in Jumre, but 
there are numerous laws to which foreigners 
may be unaccustomed. The Jumrese are con 
cerned about preserving the cleanliness and 
peacefulness of their streets and the orderli 
ness of their lives* Both citizens and the city 
guard are vigilant. Immigration is among the 
more strictly controlled aspects of life. One 
may stay indefinitely in Jumre s excellent 
inns, but it is another matter entirely to settle 
there. New residents must present them 
selves to the neighborhood council, which also 
regulates the construction of new buildings. In 
both cases the approval of the nearest three 
householders or property owners, as well as 
the council, is required. Appeals to higher 
authorities are not often entertained. In addi 
tion, those who do not build in the Jumrese 
style may well be ostracized by the commu 
nity, and those who do not maintain their 
dwellings will meet with expressions of disap 
proval, ranging from official complaints to a 
friendly gathering of neighbors with white 
wash* 

The citizens of Jumre have not segregated 
themselves by race. Halflings, gnomes, and 
humans of various backgrounds are found 
close by one another, and their modes of life 
are similar. The older portions of the town, 
nearer the Citadel, have the greater prestige, 
and old blood is definitely an asset. Many fami 
lies can, or pretend they can, trace them 
selves to the original settlers. This phe 
nomenon is less well marked among the 
gnomes, the oldest of whom can remember 
the city's earliest years. Prejudice against 
"newcomers*' is most marked among 
humans. 

The common garments of Jumrese cityfolk 
show the influence of all the founding mem 
bers, though the Suel and haifling styles seem 
to predominate. The warm weather encour 
ages short trousers and loose vests, together 
with sandals or light shoes* In winter, 
Jumrese wear long trousers and baggy 
blouses. Women sometimes but not always 
replace the trousers with skirts of similar 
length. Umbrellas and overcoats are seen 
when it rains. Almost any color may be seen, 
usually a solid and by preference bright. The 
wealthiest wear a jeweled brooch with the 
family symbol to indicate dan or house affilia 
tions; those who cannot afford such an expen- 


25 














give item will use enameled metal or even 
embroidery with bright threads to achieve a 
similar effect. According to ancient practice, 
the members of the city guard wear face paint 
and tartan kilts indicating their rank and 
ward-apparently an echo of the time when 
ordinary 7 troops were largely Flan and Oeri- 
dian tribesmen, Jumrese favor light headgear, 
with a broad brim to keep out the sun. 
Field workers wear broad straw hats that can 
double as baskets. It is fashionable to sport a 
brightly colored feather or plume tucked in 
the hatband or hair. 

Two in three Jumrese are human. One in 
five is a halfling, and about the same propor 
tion is gnomish. The majority of the remain 
der are half-elves or dwarves, though elves 
and centaurs from the nearby Silverwood 
come to Jumre to trade and occasionally settle 
there. The common tongue is known to nearly 
alh though halfling, gnomish, and Keolandish 
are also widely spoken. Including transients 
the city's population is nearly eleven thou 
sand, These people are spread over an area of 
roughly 130 acres. 

The folk of Jumre observe nearly ah of the 
beneficent powers known to the Flanaess. 
The Suel and Oeridian pantheons are most 
strongly represented, and the gnomish and 
halfling deities are also well known. Jumrese 
are most inclined to honor the deities of earth 
and nature, such as Gbad-hai and Ehkurna, 
Ulaa also has a numerous following. As for evil 
deities, it is illegal to display their tokens or 
hold ceremonies in their honor. These laws 
are directed at foreigners; Jumrese are not 
known to worship evil deities. The Jumrese 
are somewhat indifferent toward the gods, 
having little reason to call upon them. 

Jumrese coins have square holes in their 


centers. They carry the unicorn sigil of the 
House of Rhola repeated around the periph 
ery of the coin five times. The obverse bears 
the motto "peace in strength" in the ancient 
Suel script. The "coppers" are actually cast 
bronze; the silver and gold denominations are 
likewise cast, a rare practice in the FJanaesse, 
Platinum coins are not minted. Local mer 
chants, like most people in the county of Ulek, 
are leery 7 of taking foreign coins, and if they do 
so will typically discount up to a fifth of their 
value after weighing. Moneychangers typi 
cally charge one tenth the value of foreign 
coins. 

The lowest level of government in Jumre is 
the neighborhood council, a five-member 
body elected from the heads of the house 
holds in a neighborhood (which can contain as 
few as twenty or as many as fifty households). 
From among the leaders of the neighborhood 
councils in a given area of the city, a twelve- 
member ward council is chosen. Each of the 
eight ward councils sends a representative to 
the sixteen-member city council. Four other 
places on the city council are appointed by the 
count (currently Count Lewenn) from among 
the guilds, and four from among the nobility 
(who are not represented in the neighborhood 
or ward councils). The city council members 
elect a mayor, subject to the approval of the 
count (who casts the tie breaking vote if nec 
essary). The city council is theoretically only 
an advisory body, but the day-to-day activities 
of the government are in fact in the hands of 
that body, and the count seldom exercises his 
privilege to countermand a council decision. 
Haiflings and gnomes are elected roughly in 
proportion to their representation in the gen 
eral population. 

The Citadel is one of Jumre p s most notable 


structures, in part for its placement on the hill 
near the river and in part because of its high 
spires, which are not typical of Jumrese archi 
tecture. It was constructed in 43 CY, and is 
the count's personal residence as well as the 
seat of city and county government and the 
quarters of the city garrison. The Citadel is 
walled ail around; the side facing the river is 
additionally guarded by the steep cliffs leading 
down to the Quarry Gardens. A long stair 
leads directly from the Harbor Market up to 
the Citadel; roads approach the Citadel gate 
by a more circuitous route. Stairs are a fre 
quent feature on Jumre's steeper slopes, but 
the Citadel Way is by far the longest stairway; 
it may well be the longest in the Flanaess. 

The Quarry Garden is another of Jumre's 
unique features. It was created at the order of 
Countess Llyra in 193 CY from the quarry in 
the Hill of Stars that supplied the Citadel and 
many of the older houses in the city. By tradi 
tion it is open to the public so long as they 
remain on the public paths and greens. For 
centuries it has been a strong counterpoint to 
the bustle of the adjacent dockside and mar 
ket. It may well be one of the oldest human- 
built gardens in the Flanaess, and it is 
certainly one of the loveliest. The gardeners 
are all proud volunteer citizens, and competi 
tion for the limited number of posts is sharp. 

The Jumrese are rather smugly contented 
with their way of life and are of the opinion 
that the sooner this type of culture is gener 
ally adopted throughout the continent, the 
better it will be for all concerned. They see 
themselves as a hardheaded, practical people, 
and tend to regard foreigners as shiftless and 
disorderly. 


27 





COUNTDOWN IN JURNRE 


Players' Introduction 

At last! Ahead are the alabaster walls of 
Jumre, one of the few cities untouched by the 
recent turmoils of the Flanaess, It has a repu 
tation as a fortunate city, and a pleasant one. 
Certainly you may hope it will remain so. 
Even if the information which has led you to 
this island of calm turns out to be true, per- 
haps the predicted troubles will be forestalled 
for a few more days during which you may 
take some well-deserved rest and plan the 
next move. Better yet, perhaps the difficul 
ties have ended once and for all. The events of 
the past few weeks seem distant and well nigh 
impossible, as you view the peaceful fields 
about the city, and the cheerful citizens. Yet 
the message that led you here (from Rel 
Mord) was as dire as it was vague, and it 
sticks in your mind. 

Will yet another mysterious and formidable 
character weave its plots even here? And is 
the plague indeed in the air of this beautiful 
city? Only time and experience will tell. From 
the crowds at the gate, it appears that this is a 
market day. At least you can make your entry 
without any sort of trouble of fanfare. With 
any good fortune, perhaps your exit will be 
similarly uneventful. 

DM's Introduction 

Because of the way this adventure is struc 
tured, it is vitally important for the DM to be 
completely familiar with the entire text before 
play begins. All of the following information- 
facts about the city, descriptions of events 
that make up the adventure, and the Timeta 
ble of General Events near the end of the 
text-must be absorbed in order for the DM 
to get a cohesive picture of the situation in and 
around Jumre. 

Jumre T s general atmosphere is an important 
element in this adventure, so it is best to have 
some basis for comparison with the real 
world. The climate is like that of Florida, with 
somewhat higher rainfall. The setting is Euro 
pean medieval-ancient in many other 
respects, but the social milieu is rather like 
that of a smaU English town at about the turn 
of the century, complete with stereotypical 
bobbies. The confidence, even complacency, 
of the general population should be empha 
sized at all times. The reaction of most 
Jumrese to the plague, the PCs, and the 
actions of Morgorath is largely that of hurt and 
bewilderment, and (at least initially) panic and 
disorganization. 

If the PCs arrive at Jumre aboard a river 
boat, they will disembark in the harbor and 
proceed immediately to the Harbor Market. 
Otherwise they will enter through one of the 
city gates. 

When the PCs arrive, Morgorath will 
already be established in the marketplace in 


i 

the persona of a transient merchant and trad 
er, a man named Androch Larrojid. Now t that 
the objects of the test are on the scene, 
Androch7Morgorath will step up his efforts to 
spread the plague and harass the town (and 
especially the druids), and will snipe at the 
PCs until the test set for them is passed or 
until he is driven away. At present Count 
Lewenn is away from the city, on an embassy 
to Niole Dra, He will return immediately along 
a trail through the Silverwood Forest when 
news of the plague reaches him, Morgorath 
will be waiting in ambush, intending to assas 
sinate the count. The objective of the PCs will 
be to uncover the cause of the plague, and 
subsequently to prevent the assassination of 
Count Lewenn. 

This is the Test of The Druids in Istus's 
scheme-particularly designed for a group of 
4-6 PCs, each of 2nd-4th level-and it is 
unlikely that the party will fare extremely well 
if at least one member of the group is not a 
druid (although it is still quite possible for such 
a party to pass the test). Neither will the party 
do well if the druid does not make full use of 
druidic abilities, particularly low-level ones 
such as speak with animals , charm person or 
mammal, entangle, faerie fire, and animal 
friendship. It is unlikely that player characters 
will even identify Morgorath's beastman form 
(see The Mirrors of Fate) or be able to follow 
him without the aid of at least one animal that 
has a good sense of smell (a dog, preferably, 
though a cat, bear, or weasel might serve just 
as well). Judicious use of the druidic cant will 
also prove useful, and the unraveling of the 
mystery will require at least some knowledge 
of plant and animal life. 

If a druid is not in the party, some stopgap 
measures may be possible. A cleric will be 
able to duplicate or simulate some of the dru 
idic skills, and a magic-user with a familiar of 
an appropriate type may be able to use it to 
effect. The lack of anyone who speaks druidic 
cant will be a handicap, but does not make it 
impossible for the characters to operate at all. 
Whether or not a druid is present, it may be 
(DM's judgment) that the players will need 
some prodding at first to encourage use of 
these abilities, particularly if there are no 
druid characters (who might be expected to 
think of them). A few hints may be in order, if 
they don't give away the game entirely. Alert 
players should have several opportunities to 
latch onto the trail of Morgorath. 

The background information on Jumre will 
be available to player characters only in part 
unless one of them is native to the region. 
Portions might have been learned from travel 
ing companions during their journey. Other 
parts of the information must be discovered 
through experience, unless the characters 
happened to consult a sage earlier. Aspects of 


the city's histoi 7 and social structure will be 
evident from conversations with the proud cit 
izens, who will provide rather more informa 
tion than most player characters will care to 
hear. This is particularly apt to occur at 
statues, fountains, or older portions of the 
city wall, all of which have their unique and (to 
the locals) fascinating histories. The DM is 
encouraged to ad lib. 

One aspect of the city that's impossible not 
to notice is that the place is . . . healthy. The 
word ''outbreak" in the letter discovered by 
the PCs in Rel Mord seems to have been a 
gross overstatement-or perhaps it was a 
purposeful exaggeration or an outright lie, 
perpetrated for some purpose the player 
characters are not aware of. At any rate, now 
that they're here, they may as well get to 
know the place a bit. 

City Architecture and Layout 

The city walls are 30 feet high, and are 
smooth with few cracks where they are new 
along the perimeter. The older portions within 
the city itself are smooth but cracked (see 
page 19 of the Dungeon Masters Guide). The 
walls of houses in Jumre are seldom so high 
that it is not possible to leap up and scramble 
onto the roof, but the masonry is good- 
smooth, with few cracks. 

The primary streets of Jumre are 20 feet 
wide and smoothly paved with finished lime 
stone slabs, not cobbles. Secondary streets 
are 10 feet wide. There is a raised sidewalk 3 
feet wide beside each roadway. "Streets" 
shown on the map as running directly up or 
down hills are actually stairways, hall as wide 
as a street. The stairs are generally broad, 
and run in a series of flights interspersed with 
flat areas. 

Typical dwellings in Jumre are roomy (con 
sidering the size of the inhabitants). Many of 
them are built with their backs running into a 
hill, lending some atmosphere of a burrow; it 
is toward the back of a typical residence that 
bedrooms and storage areas are located. The 
parts of the house facing the street are for 
business and visitors, and are generally well 
lit. This style is common to halflings, humans, 
and gnomes alike. There is usually a garden 
on the roof, and the family is likely to sleep 
there during the warmer part of the year. > 
(This makes sneaking about at night rather 
difficult. . . .) Stairways are seldom found in a 
dwelling, but are generally broad and not par 
ticularly steep. Doors and shutters are stout, 
and made of wood. 

If the nearest buildings must be determined 
randomly for some reason, roll on the follow 
ing table: 


28 



Roll 

(dlOO) 

Building Type 

01-04 

Weaver's shop 

05-08 

Dyer's shop 

09-12 

Butcher 

13-16 

Cheesemaker 

17-20 

Brewer 

21-24 

Tailor 

25-32 

Fruit & vegetable shop 

33-40 

Blacksmith or armorer 

41-48 

Woodworker 

49-52 

Tile maker 

53-56 

Mason 

57-60 

Warehouse 

61-64 

Merchant's home and shop 

65-68 

Pawnshop 

69-72 

Jeweler 

73-76 

Herbalist 

77-84 

Used clothes shop 

85-92 

Restaurant or Inn 

93-96 

Snack stand or cafe 

97-99 

Boarding house * 

00 

Nobleman's city house 


* - Contains 2d8 watchmen, militiamen, 
clerks, and/or dock workers, plus possibly 
family members of same. Determine each pri 
mary resident's profession randomly. 

Any household will consist of the primary 
householder or owner (named above by pro 
fession) and 2d8 other persons (triple this 
number for nobles; halve it for warehouses, 
which are owned by merchants who sleep 
elsewhere and are guarded and kept by the 
inhabitants). The race of the householder is 
determined by the table under 'inhabitants 
and By s tande rs '' be low. 

Inhabitants and Bystanders 

It may on occasion be necessary to determine 
who else is on the street or otherwise nearby 
at some random location within the city. 
Assume that 2d6 persons are within range of 
any significant action in the public places of the 
city. Double this on market days; subtract 4 
from the total at night. This total includes peo 
ple looking out windows, traveling along the 
street, etc. Profession is determined as fol 
lows: 

Roll 

(ld20) Type 

01-16 Local re s ide ntJ me rchant 

17 Watchman/city guardsman 

18 Farmer 

19 Trader 

20 Entertainer or pickpocket 

Half the locals and farmers are female, and 
there is a 1 in 4 chance that a local or farmer is 
a child. Roll on the following table to deter 
mine race: 


Roll 


(ld2G) 

Race 

1-14 

Human (local resident) 

1547 

Halfling 

18-19 

Gnome 

20 

RoU ld6: 1 = Elf 


2 = Half- elf 

3 or 4 = Dwarf 

5 = Centaur 

6 = Foreign human (not 

from Ulek or Keoland) 

If necessary, hit points and other characterise 
tics may be determined from the Monster 
Manual or from page 88 of the Dungeon Mas 
ters Guide, but this should not be necessary 
since few of the locals are armed and likely to 
enter lethal combat. It is best to prepare for 
one or two such encounters ahead of time by 
rolling a few random groups. 

Accommodations 

Visitors may pitch a tent on the river side of 
the road outside the city walls, if they do not 
put an axe to local trees (wood sufficient for a 
night's fire may be bought from a vendor near 
dusk for 1 c.p,). Within the city, one may rent 
a space in the covered portion of the Harbor 
Market for 2 c.p. for each person or mount 
from closing time (sunset) until sunrise the 
next morning, on the condition that there be 
no commotion, that the area is tidy the next 
morning, and that the place is vacated 
promptly at sunrise. The harbor watch sees 
to this area. The Rampant Centaur, the Hog 
and Catfish, and the Lazy Lion offer accept 
able if rather simple accommodations and a 
good cross- section of Jurnre's lower-class 
visitors for prices ranging from 5 c.p, for a 
place in the common room to 1 g.p. for a large 
private room. The Golden Perch* The Live 
Oak* and the Hale Horseman offer classier 
company and more impressive accommoda 
tions at twice the price, along with a wider 
range of food and drink. 

Laws and Law Enforcement 
The authorities and citizens ofJurnre are not 
tolerant of "dangerous" or disorderly behav 
ior. Fights* even fistfights* will attract the 
immediate attention of bystanders, and the 
typical reaction is to call the watch. Typical 
Jurnrese citizens are unaccustomed to serious 
violence, and will not attempt to apprehend 
armed criminals* but they will provide what 
ever other aid they can. It would be impos 
sible to list all of the city's bylaws, but a 
sample should suffice. It is illegal to light fires 
other than in a brazier or other contained fire 
place* molest songbirds* spit on the street or 
dump slops or throw trash, mistreat animals 
(even one's own), make loud noises after sun 
down or before first light, buy or sell sexual 


favors* block streets or passageways* wear 
armor or bear weapons openly. 

This last stricture (in italic type) is strictly 
enforced by the watch* and citizens will avoid 
anyone who breaks it until the watch takes 
notice and commands disarmament. Staves 
may pass unremarked if the individual has the 
look of a rustic, and knives worn at the belt 
will cause little more than a raised eyebrow or 
two, but even so much as a dagger is forbid 
den unless it is part of personal luggage (that 
is, carried out of sight in a bag or backpack). 
Leather armor is permitted by most law- 
enforcement officers, since many forms of it 
could be passed off as garments rather than 
items worn for protection from attack, A 
leather vest, no matter how heavy, might 
raise a few eyebrows but cause no real con 
sternation* whereas a full leather jacket might 
(depending on the mood of the viewing offi 
cer) temporarily or permanendy confiscated. 
Studded leather or anything heavier is defin 
itely armor, and will be treated as such. 

There are no beggars in jurnre; those capa 
ble of work are arrested and serve a sentence 
of twenty days hard labor* then escorted to 
the gates. Those incapable of work and with 
out family are cured of their disability if possi 
ble* but are then indentured for the cost of the 
cure . If someone incapable of working cannot 
be cured and is not a native of the city, he must 
leave. The DM should bear in mind that the 
primary intent of jumrese laws is that the city 
should be very safe and very clean. The watch 
has wide discretion in enforcement of laws* 
and the judges at the Citadel have yet wider 
discretion. 

Anyone who has been arrested, regardless 
of the crime* must accompany members of 
the watch to the Citadel. Ordinarily this is a 
friendly request, but anyone who resists will 
be bound and if necessary gagged (remember* 
the Jumrese dislike disturbances). Arrest for 
minor crimes is not considered a black mark in 
Jurnre, but those who violently resist arrest 
will be shunned by all who witnessed the act 
(-20% on all reactions). At the Citadel the 
criminal will wait for ld4 hours until a judge 
may be found to hear the case, or until about 
10 a.m. the next day if the arrest was after 
sundown Qumrese citizens may simply be 
ordered to appear the next day* at the discre 
tion of the Captain of the Watch), The wait will 
be in a comfortable room with other miscre 
ants of the same sex, or a less comfortable ceil 
if the criminal has resisted arrest. The door is 
locked, and the window barred. Water is pro 
vided* but no food. Hearings are short; the 
judge will have either the testimony of a 
watchman, or a written note from the head of 
the watch. Decisions are final, pending an 
appeal to the count, but only citizens or for 
eigners with a Jumrese sponsor are allowed 








to make such an appeal. 

The Jumrese laws emphasize restitution 
where persons or the public interest have 
been harmed. Crimes other than assault, 
theft, or property damage typically bring a 
friendly warning for first offenses, and 
unfriendly warning for second offenses, and 
full penalties on a third offense. A monetary 
fine is the typical penalty; someone who can 
not come up with the funds is given a public- 
works job on short rations until he is deemed 
to have paid his debt. One day's work is worth 
I s,p. piece in fines. Determining the punish 
ment for serious crimes such as murder or 
armed robbery is technically the province of 
the count or his steward, but the preliminary 
judgment of the day 's magistrate is usually fol 
lowed. 

Jumrese watchmen work singly, except in 
areas where there are large concentrations of 
foreigners, where they go about in groups of 
five. Their uniform consists of a checkered 
kilt and face paint. Each carries a quarterstaff 
and a sap. Those at the city gates and those on 
harbor patrol have longbows as well. They are 
large humans, well trained, and fully confident 
of their abilities. Watchmen have generally 
been chosen for a friendly disposition and a 
quick eye. They enjoy good relations with the 
Jumrese citizenry, and are apt to help locals 
with problems other than criminal matters. 
Organization is loose, and routes unpredicta 
ble; there is a 50% chance, checked each 
turn, that a watchman or a group of watchmen 
will come into view; this chance is 50% per 
round if there is a disturbance. 

City watch-1st level fighters (encountered 
singly or groups of five): AC 8; MV 12"; HD 
1; hp 5; MT 1 {or 2 with longbow); Dmg 1-6 
{staff) or 1-2 (sap) or 1-6 (longbow, gate and 
harbor patrols only); THACG 20; AL LN, N, 
LG, NG {roll ld4); SA attack with sap against 
unarmored head has a 60% chance to cause 
unconsciousness. 

Matters beyond the competence of watch 
men are handled by the garrison at the Cita 
del, The force of regular soldiers at the 
garrison (not counting the commander and 
other high-ranking officers) numbers 130, and 
is divided into 10 squads each containing 12 
1st level fighters led by a sergeant of 2nd 
level. Eight of the squads are foot soldiers; 
two squads are composed of mounted troops. 
Footmen carry shortswords and pikes (75% 
of the force) or shortswords and longbows 
(25% of the force), and wear leather armor. 
Horsemen ride light warhorses and have 
shortbows rather than longbows, and lances 
in place of pikes; they wear chain mail and 
shields. 

A squadron of foot soldiers includes the fol 
lowing: 

Pikemen (9)-1st level fighters: AC 7; MV 


12' r ; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (pike or 
shortsword); THAC0 20; AL any neutral or 
good. Each has ld6 copper pieces and ld4 sil 
ver coins. 

Bowmen (3)-1st level fighters: AC 7; MV 
12"; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1 (or 2 with longbow); 
Dmg 1-6 (longbow or shortsword); THAC0 
20; AL any neutral or good. Each has ld6 cop 
per pieces and ld4 silver coins. 

Sergeant-2nd level fighter: AC 7; MV 
12" ; HD 2; hp 12; 0AT 1; Dmg 1-8 (long- 
sword); THAC0 19; AL LG or LN. 

A mounted squadron has the same charac 
teristics, except that they wear chain mail and 
have shields (AC 4); the pikemen are replaced 
by lancers (damage 1-6, doubled on a charge); 
the bowmen are armed with shortbows rather 
than longbows; and the leader bears a lance 
instead of a longs word. And, of course, they 
also ride . . . 

Horses , light war (13): AC 7; MV 24"; HD 
2; hp 10 each: #AT 2; Dmg 1-4/1-4; THAC0 
16; AL N, 

Outside the City 

The lands immediately beyond the city wall 
are all given over to farming. Within six hun 
dred yards of the river these are rice fields; 
beyond, they are mixed grazing lands, citrus 
orchards, and cotton fields. Each farm has its 
own farmhouse, and all of the farmers keep 
dogs. Trespassing is not allowed, but the land 
between the road and the river is free to all if 
they do not cut down living trees. The typical 
farm is about 220 yards square and has 2d3 
adults in residence (equal numbers of men and 
women) plus an equal number of children. If it 
is important, determine the race of a farm res 
ident on the table given under "Inhabitants 
and Bystanders" above. The owner(s) of a 
farm and any hired help will generally, but not 
necessarily, be of the same race. 

A typical farm also has ld3 dogs, kept for 
protection as much as for companionship. 
Farmers do not have weapons; if by some 
peculiar chance they are forced into combat 
they have the characteristics of laboring males 
(zero level, 2-7 hp) and laboring females (zero 
level, 2-5 hp), as on page 88 of the Dungeon 
Masters Guide, and can arm themselves with 
farm implements that serve as spears (Dmg 
1-6) or "generic weapons" (Dmg 14 or 1-6, 
depending on size and weight of the imple 
ment). Only the farm dogs are likely to chal 
lenge intruders, but their master(s) will pitch 
in if a conflict is inevitable. 

Farm dogs (as wild dogs; ld3 per house): 
AC 7; MV 15"; HD 1 + 1; hp 6 each; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-4 (bite); THAC0 18; AL N. 

The Kewl 

The Kewl is a slow, relatively broad and shal 
low river at this point, though not by any 


means shallow enough to be easily forded. It 
is rather muddy. The Jumrese have driven 
away harmful wildlife from the eastern bank, 
but crocodiles may be seen to bask on the 
Silverwood side. There is a 10% chance per 
turn of crossing that adventurers will attract 
the attention of 1-4 crocodiles, and struggling 
or thrashing in the water increases the chance 
of this to 10% per round. Crocodiles will 
arrive in 2-8 rounds. They will keep pace with 
a boat, or attack swimmers from beneath. 

Crocodiles (1-6): AC 5; MV G'7/12"; HD 3; 
hp 10, 14, 11, 12, 15, 9; #AT 2; Dmg 2-8/1- 
12; THAC0 16; AL N; SA surprise on 1-3, 

The crocodiles have noted Morgorath's 
trips back and forth over the Kewl, as have 
other large river creatures. 

The Gate and Walls 

Those who enter at the harbor or the city gate 
are examined by city watchmen. The watch 
men generally keep a benign half-eye toward 
those entering the gate, and on a positive 
reaction roll wall provide directions and per 
haps even aid. They will not allow entrance to 
those who show signs of breaking city ordi 
nances. This is a friendly warning, but a firm 
one. ("Better stow that sword, friend; no 
cause for a grim thing like that in a civilized 
town" or "Watch it lad, they'll be arresting 
you as a vagrant" or "Make sure you get your 
license before you play that thing.") Nobody 
will be allowed to pass if they are openly car 
rying weapons or wearing anything heavier 
than leather armor. The five watchmen loung 
ing in the shade are surprisingly swift and well 
organized, as are their five compatriots atop 
the wall. 

The gates are dosed at sundown and 
opened at sunrise. Only the count's officials or 
a serious threat to the city can cause them to 
be opened at night. During the day there are 
ten guardsmen at each gate, five on the 
ground and five more stationed on the wall 
itself just above the gate. At night, when the 
gate is closed, four remain by the gate and the 
other six walk (m two three-man patrols) 
along the top of the wall, observing both 
sides. They are responsible for the city wall 
halfway to the next gate. 

Watchmen-lstlevel fighters (10 pergate): 
AC 8; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 5; tfAT 1 or 2; Dmg 
1-6 (staff) or 1-6/1-6 (longbow); THAC0 20; 
ALLN, N, LG, orNG (ld4). Each carries ld3 
silver and ld8 copper pieces. 

The Grove 

This is a large area planted with oaks, where 
all druidic clerics in Jumre hold their ceremo 
nies, regardless of which particular deity they 
worship. The present guardian is Tiran 
Weaverman, He is a devotee of Obad-hai. 
While he will provide aid and advice to the 


30 







player characters, his attitude concerning any 
supposed special dangers is like that of the 
authorities at the Citadel (see below). 

Tiran Weaverman-male 7th level druid: 
AC 6; MV 12"; HD 7; hp44; #AT 1; Dmg 2-9 
(scimitar + 1); THACO 16; AL N; $A & SD 
druidic abilities. 

Assume that Tiran has whatever spell may 
be required for the occasion. His 18 wisdom 
entitles him to use 6 first level, 6 second level, 
4 third level, and 2 fourth level spells. 

The Citadel 

The Citadel is located on a patch of leveled 
ground atop a 50-foot-high hill a short distance 
from the Harbor Market. The stairway known 
as Citadel Way leads from the outskirts of the 
marketplace up to the Citadel gate, as does a 
road used by beasts of burden and vehicles. 
The wall and guards about the Citadel are the 
same as those who guard the walls and gates 
around the perimeter of the city (see "The 
Gate and Walls" above). Within the wall sur 
rounding the Citadel is the garrison, the may 
or's office, some courts and meeting rooms, 
and the count's residence. Two tall towers 
rise fifty feet above the other buildings, which 
are typically Jumrese. The open spaces are 
gardened. The soldiers of the garrison and 
guard are described under "Laws and Law 
Enforcement" above. 

The mayor, a large and long-winded man 
named Ponto Porstal, will not be interested in 
seeing the player characters except possibly 
under the most unusual of circumstances 
(DM's option, but the story would have to 
have some actual backup and some reliable 
Jumrese witnesses). Neither will the Captain 
of the Watch or the garrison's commander. 
Before the plague strikes he and ail other offi 
cials will be incredulous that any danger might 
befall the city or the count. Afterward they 
will be too busy with the plague and anxious 
for the count's early return to listen to any 
"nonsense." 

Attempts to illegally enter the precincts of 
the Citadel are 50% likely per round to lead to 
an encounter with a pair of watchmen. The 
watchmen will call for help, which will arrive in 
1-2 rounds, when they first notice an intru 
sion. They will then attempt an arrest. Tres 
passing without apparent malicious intent on 
the grounds of the Citadel carries a special 
mandatory sentence of one week imprison 
ment or a 1 g.p. fine. The imprisonment is 
automatic for second offenders. 

W&tehmen- 1st level fighters: AC 8; MV 
12"; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (staff) 
or 1-2 (sap); THACO 20; AL LN, N, LG, or 
NG (id4); SA attack with sap against unar 
mored head has 60% chance to cause uncon 
sciousness. 


The Harbor Market and the Harbor 

The market area is paved, and the southern 
half of it (adjacent to the harbor) is covered. 
The roof is made of stone and tile, and is rath 
er old and worn. This is the market where 
most goods from up and down the river are to 
be found. The city watchmen here are in 
squads of five, and serve as the harbor guard. 
They inspect each boat as it arrives, and 
accompany the harbormaster to assess har 
bor fees. Booths may be rented from the har 
bormaster (who also looks after the market), 
either for the sale of goods by day or as a place 
to spend the night. 

Any PC who asks for information about 
boats from the upper Kewl will be directed to 
Androch Larrojid's boat. (See the section 
below.) 

The New Market 

This is much like the old market, but it has 
fewer goods from distant parts and much 
more of a country air to it. No goods from up 
the Kewl are found here. 

The Gardens 

Formally known as the Quarry Garden, this 
area is open to the public from sunrise until 
two hours after sunset. Visitors can walk 
where they please as long as they remain on 
the public paths and greens. After dark the 
area is lit by stone lanterns scattered about 
the place. It is separated from the rest of the 
city by a stone wall 5 feet high and a very 
dense thicket of bamboo. The ponds are shal 
low, and supplied with city water. There is a 
quay for small pleasure boats, and when the 
garden is open there will be ld4 such boats 
moored there. The garden is frequently vis 
ited, and is as likely to have citizens in it as any 
other part of Jumre. The limestone cliff lead 
ing up to the Citadel wall is rough, with ledges 
and projections, for the first 24 feet, and 
planted as a rock garden. It Is one degree 
more difficult-fairly rough with some 
cracks-for the next 18 feet, and becomes 
very smooth with few cracks for the rest of 
the distance to the top. 

The Herbalists Shop 
Senneth Sarhand, proprietor of the city's only 
herbalist's shop, does business from an 
unassuming-looking storefront just off the 
northeastern edge of the Harbor Market 
(from where he buys most of his stock). His 
primary business is as a tobacconist, but he 
sells almost any sort of herb used in this 
region of the Flanaess. Sarhand is an elderly 
man, and quite loquacious. He will perform 
identifications free. If the PCs show him a 
sample of boneset (see "The Shooting" 
below) he will not only identify it, but will 
remark that Androch Larrojid, a new mer 


chant in these parts, recently sold his entire 
stock of the herb to Sarhand. 

Androch Larrojid's Boat 
Morgorath is in the city, in the person of the 
transient merchant Androch Larrojid, and the 
boat is one of the places he uses for a lair. The 
vessel is tied up at the westernmost pier in 
the harbor. Although it's a small boat, and not 
ostentatious, it looks relatively new. It has a 
single cabin, where Androch and his hired 
man Tossan both reside. Chained to a post 
outside the cabin is a large, shaggy guard dog. 
The animal will make noise whenever anyone 
approaches, even Androch or Tossan. (It has 
been recently purchased, and doesn't know 
its masters very well yet.) However, the dog 
will not attack unless it is assaulted or cor 
nered. The barking will subside about 30 sec 
onds after someone boards the boat, and the 
dog will be docile thereafter until another 
stranger (or group of strangers) approaches. 

No matter when the PCs first approach the 
boat, Androch/Morgorath will be away and 
will not return for 1-4 hours. In the daytime 
Tossan will be somewhere about in the city; 
after dark, Tossan will be aboard the boat and 
asleep. He will awaken if the dog is disturbed 
and begins to bark, and he will not allow stran 
gers aboard the boat if their intentions seem 
less than honorable. 

In addition to personal items in the cabin, 
there is a small locked wooden chest fastened 
to the deck. A cursory examination will sug 
gest to any druid that warp wood might open 
it. If PCs attempt to open it by hand, the lock 
can be picked very easily (+ 50% to a thief s 
normal chance)-but lifting the lid manually 
will release a poisoned needle from the under 
side of the lid. The needle will strike the char 
acter closest to the front of the chest, causing 
2-8 points of damage and unconsciousness for 
an equal number of hours (save vs. poison to 
halve both effects). 

Within the chest are five rough-cut emer 
alds (base value 1,000 g.p.), seven rough 
chrysoberyls (100 g.p.), 200 gold pieces, and 
500 silver pieces, as well as a scroll with the 
druid spells faerie fire, speak with animals, 
speak with plants, tree , slow poison, and 
transport via plants. There is also a map of the 
area of the SDverwood Forest directly across 
the Kewl, covering an area of several square 
miles and including the road along which the 
count will be traveling on his return to Jumre. 

Another map in the cabin is much more 
accessible-tacked up on the wall in plain 
sight. It is a rough sketch of the Kewl River 
and the coastline bordering the Azure Sea and 
Mbolly Bay, with a dotted line describing a 
route down the Kewl to the sea, east around 
the peninsula, and northwest along the shore 
of the Wild Coast to the city of Elredd. The 


31 









logical (and correct) assumption would be that 
this is the route that "Larrojid" intends to 
take when he leaves Jumre, 

Tossan is loyal to his employer, but has won 
dered about his standoffishness and, why he is 
so frequently away, even at night. If player 
characters strike up a conversation he will 
remark on the fact. He will also mention that 
he has seen Androch go over to the other side 
of the river, and wonders if he isn't trying to 
strike some special deal with the local elves. 
Tossan is of the druidic persuasion, and a very 
convincing story from a druid and a good reac 
tion roll will allow player characters to investi 
gate the boat but not to open or take anything. 
There is one rat aboard the boat, and the crea 
ture is infected with the plague (see "The 
Reeling Rodent" below). 

Tossan -zero-le ve! laborer: AC 10; MV 
12"; hp 5; MT 1; Dmg 14 (dagger under 
jacket); THACO 20; AL N, 

Dog , war: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 2 +2; hp 14; 
MT 1; Dmg 2-8; THACO 16; AL N. 


The Silver wood 

The Silverwood is a largely untouched forest. 
On the low ground within 100 yards of the riv 
er the primary trees are bald cypress, liber 
ally draped with Spanish moss. These give 
way to live oaks, which persist for half a mile 
until the traveler reaches higher ground, 
w T hich is dominated by the gum (eucalyptus) 
trees for which the forest is commonly 
thought to be named (the gum trees have 
grayish, bluish, or silvery leaves, and certain 
varieties are quite valuable). The ground 
beneath the cypress trees is covered with an 
inch or so of stagnant water. Beneath the live 
oaks, the ground is relatively damp and the 
forest floor is gloomy. The wood beneath the 
gum trees is much less dimly lit and conse 
quently has denser undergrowth (reduce 
movement for size M creatures by one-third 
unless they can somehow pass through unhin 
dered as druids can). 

As shown on the map, a trail leads through 
the forest to a ferry landing on the bank of the 
river north of Jumre. This is used by the for 
est inhabitants and travelers to reach Jumre 


on market days, when a ferry operates about 
once every half hour. It runs twice a day oth 
erwise. This is the road along which the count 
and his party will approach the city. 

The region of the forest across from the city 
has been "seeded" by Morgorath with diffi 
culties for anyone who investigates this area. 
Using speak with animals and charm person or 
mammal , he has set the inhabitants to attack 
or hinder the player characters. He has pro 
vided descriptions of the PCs, so that there 
will be no cases of mistaken identity. His activ 
ity in the area means that he has been seen 
going to and fro by 1 in 4 of the ubiquitous 
small animals thereabout. The small mammals 
and birds stay out of sight, and are rarely actu 
ally encountered (10% chance per hour) 
unless magical means of calling or locating 
them are employed. All have the impression 
that Morgorath has a lair somewhere in the 
area; none knows where it actually is. There 
is a 25% chance per hour that one of the major 
creatures placed by Morgorath will be 
encountered. Take encounters from the fol 
lowing list, in the order given. However the 



32 















































encounter goes, the same creature won't be 
seen twice. All will attack from ambush if they 
can. 

Dogs, wifcf (12): AC 7; MV 15"; HD 1 +1; 
hp4, 2, 5, 6, 8,3,6* 7, 9, 5, 5,7; #AT1; Dmg 
14; THACO 20; AL N. 

Leopard: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 3+2; hp 18; 
iff AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6; THACO 16; AL N; 
SA surprises on a 1-3, attacks with rear claws 
for 14/14 if front claws hit; SD surprised 
only on a 1. 

Boar, wild: AC 7; MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 16; 
#AT 1; Dmg 3-12; THACO 16; A1 N; SA con 
tinues to fight for 2-5 rounds if between 0 and 
^6 hit points. 

Bear, black: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3+3; hp 
15; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1- 3/16; THACO 16; AL 
N; SA hugs for 2-8 if paw hits with an 18 or 
higher; continues to fight for 1-4 rounds if 
between 0 and -8 hit points* 

When all four of these encounters have been 
experienced, the PCs' next encounter will be 
with Morgorath's forest lair. 

Morgorath's Forest Lair 
A hollow tree amidst an area of very thick 
undergrowth has served as Morgorath's base 
of operations during his preparations for the 
ambush of Count Lewenn. The cavities within 
the tree hold several spare sets of clothes and 
two recently emptied bottles of insinuative 
poison, but no treasure, Morgorath is not at 
the site when the characters arrive. He left an 
hour ago-just after placing a snare spell, his 
usual precaution, across the only entrance to 
the interior of the tree. 

As the PCs approach the tree, they can't 
help but notice the large opening in the trunk 
about a foot off the ground-and the interest 
ing fact that the interior of the tree is obscured 
by a curtain of vines, which is certainly not a 
natural phenomenon. As soon as the snare is 
either detected (and bypassed) or triggered, 
the PCs see a probably familiar figure-Hloth 
Shadowfoot, the centaur-coming toward 
them through the underbrush. 

If the PCs were helpful to Hloth during their 
first encounter with him (see "The Drunken 
Centaur" below), he will be a veritable wealth 
of information and assistance at this point. In a 
hasty, slightly panicky voice, he will explain 
that Androch Larrojid is at this very moment 
waiting to ambush Count Lewenn from a hid 
ing place just off the northern forest trail, and 
will offer other aid as described m 'The 
Chase" below. If Hloth s recollection of the 
PCs from their earlier meeting is less than 
positive, his opening comments will be more 
vague-something like "The count is in trou 
ble and needs help." For more information on 
how Hloth will react thereafter, see "The 
Chase" 


If he is asked about the tree, Hloth will say 
that it contains nothing of use to the PCs and 
will urge them to not concern themselves with 
it further. If they disregard his advice, PCs 
will discover the two empty poison containers 
and may learn something from them-but at 
the cost of losing Hloth *s continued coopera 
tion, if the centaur had been previously 
inclined to help. 

As soon as this encounter has taken place, 
action proceeds directly to "The Chase" 
regardless of whether all the other events 
described below have occurred. 

EVENTS 

The Drunken Centaur 

This will be the first significant encounter 
once the characters have entered the city, 
before they have decided where to stay. As 
they round a comer, they come upon a scene 
that has already attracted a large knot of 
observers. A cart piled high with hides and 
furs, apparently abandoned, blocks half the 
street* In the doorway of a nearby brewery 


stands a centaur, Hloth Shadowfoot. He car 
ries two small casks, one under each arm, and 
is arguing loudly and heatedly with a city 
watchman (one Red Haleman, if a name 
enters the discussion)* Hloth entered the 
shop to buy the two casks, and lingered to 
chat and have a drink with the proprietor, 
leaving Ms cart outside. The watchman mean 
while passed by, noticed the blockage of the 
road, and stopped to find the owner and deliv 
er a warning. 

Without money (he spent the last of Ms on 
the casks) and worried that he might be fined, 
Hloth misunderstood and started to argue. 
The watchman is now ready to arrest the cen 
taur for disrespect to a law-enforcement offi 
cer. He mentions the additional possible 
charge of "drunk and disorderly" as the play 
er characters approach. In a panic, Hloth 
gives a hand sign which any member of a dru 
idic sect will recognize as a call for help. The 
guard is kindhearted, and would rather not try 
to arrest a centaur in any case. Any druid who 
says a word on Hloth's behalf will be success 
ful in heading off trouble, and any other rea- 



33 













sonable intervention will also be successful, 
particularly if it is in the form of an observation 
that Hloth hasn't yet caused any inconven 
ience. The guard will be satisfied with an apol 
ogy. This Hloth will give, if grudgingly. 

The centaur will be grateful for the PCs' 
help, and will provide information concerning 
the city and accommodations if he is asked. 
He volunteers that his next stop will be 
"Seimeth's-he's the best herbalist in town" 
once he has found an inn where he can park his 
cart. The cart bears a number of rabbit, rac 
coon, and wildcat skins, as well as a very fine 
tiger skin hidden under the others, a bear 
skin, several buffalo hides, and two large 
sealed jars of wild honey. Beneath the skins 
are concealed a large cudgel and a longbow. 

If player characters do not intervene, the 
discussion will rapidly grow more heated. 
Hloth will be detained at the Citadel and will 
have some of his skins confiscated to pay his 
fine. In such a case, he will be quite reluctant 
to give a lot of information or assistance to the 
PCs when they encounter him again {see 
" Morgorath's Forest Lair" above and "The 
Chase" below). 

Red Haleman, city watchman-1st level 
fighter: AC 8; MV 12'"; HD 1; hp 5; #AF l; 
Dmg 1-6 (staff) or 1-2 (sap); THACO 20; AL 
LG; SA hit with sap against unarmored head 
has 75% chance to stun. 

Hloth Shadowfoot-centaur: AC 5; MV 
18"; HD 4; hp 22; tfAT 2 or 3; Dmg 1 G/l -6 
(hooves) and 1-8 (cudgel, if used); THACO 
15; AL N(CG); SA longbow for 1-6/1-6, 

Prophecy on the Stair 
This event will occur within the first day that 
characters are in the city, the first time they 
pass by a stairway after they have encoun 
tered the centaur. It is best if matters can be 
arranged so that it occurs when the charac 
ters are leaving the area of the Harbor Mar 
ket, and in that case the stair will be the 
Citadel Way. A gray-robed priestess of Istus, 
Myrha lllingthom, has gathered a large crowd 
and is berating the townsfolk for their inactivi 
ty: they should expel all non-Jumrese, she 
says, or Fate will bring a plague to the city. 
The response of the crowd is sympathetic 
only in that they think the display is unseemly. 
The comments include "Tsk, tsk"; "Shame 1 '; 
"Oh, what a pity": and "Stand down!" Once 
the PCs come upon the scene, a watchman 
will then arrive within 2 rounds; after an 
unsuccessful attempt to silence her, he will 
bodily bear her away to the citadel . If the char 
acters interfere, or come to the front of the 
crowd, or are foreign enough to be identified 
as such at a distance, she will single them out 
and accuse them of carrying the plague. 
Myrha has created this incident on orders 
from her superiors outside Jumre, but has no 


idea why she should do such a thing. She is the 
sole cleric of Istus in the city, and has a small 
shrine in her home. 

Myrha lllingthom-3rd level cleric: AC 10; 
MV 12"; HD 2; hp 10; #AT special; Dmg 
grappling & pummeling only; THACO 20; AL 
N; SA spells: commandcure light wounds, 
detect magic, sanctuary (already cast), 
enthrall, know alignment, and augury (this last 
is a special ability available once per day to 
clerics of Istus); AL N. 

Myrha lllingthom s residence is on the 
north side of town, a modest and relatively 
new building. She is Jumrese in origin. If 
approached later by the PCs, she will offer no 
explanations, and will flee any attack. Her 
clerical services are available to the PCs, if 
she is so inclined, at the usual fees. 

Hark, Hark the Dogs Do Bark 
This event will occur on the evening of the 
first day as the PCs are somewhere in the city 
and by chance pass by Morgorath in his guise 
as the merchant Androch Larrojid. (This is 
probably, but not necessarily, before they 
have visited his boat.) 

Nearby are two dogs that belong to a 
bystander. When they smell Morgorath, they 
bristle and begin to bark. They will continue to 
do so until their owner has tried to quiet them 
for 2 rounds, after which they will still look 
toward him and growl. Larrojid will look 
embarrassed, and remark that dogs usually 
like him. (Morgorath will head for his boat 
immediately after this event takes place, and 
may be followed by anyone who is discreet.) If 
the dogs are questioned (using speak with ani 
mals) concerning their reasons, they will 
insist that the supposed merchant doesn't 
smell like a human, and that they don't trust 
him. Any weasel, cat, horse, dog, or other 
creature that the characters may have with 
them will confirm that Morgorath has an odd 
smell. 

The Reeling Rodent 
This will occur early on the second day of the 
PCs' visit, in their rooms if they have taken 
accommodations in the city, or otherwise as 
soon as they are inside a building or walking 
through an alleyway-some place where rats 
would be liable to be encountered. It may be 
repeated one or more times during the day if 
the characters don't get the point or aren't 
ready the first time. 

A rat will come staggering out of a nearby 
place of refuge, or will be suddenly noticed in 
the open, unnaturally still and in broad day 
light. The rat has contracted the plague, and is 
feeling dizzy and confused. If speak with ani 
mals is used, it will on careful questioning 
reveal that it began to feel ill after coming into 
close contact with a rat from one of the boats 


tied up in the harbor, which was also not feel 
ing well. Such a confused and worried rat as 
this one will not give any sort of coherent sto 
ry, and will not of course be inclined to attack. 
On a poor reaction roll it will not provide infor 
mation unless charm person or mammal is 
used. 

Rat, ordinary: AC 7; MV 15' r ; HD V*; hp 1; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 20; AL R 

The Clumsy Halfling 
This will happen any time during the second 
day of the PCs ' stay in the city, while the party 
is seated at a cafe or in a restaurant or the 
common room of an inn, or failing that at some 
time when the player characters are simply 
walking through the street or marketplace. 

Morgorath will pass by in the guise of a 
female halfling, "Mara Hardiggin," carrying a 
large stoneware jug, and will seem to stumble 
against a member of the party (the druid, if 
one is present and identifiable; otherwise, a 
character at random). This will mean that the 
character may contract the disease (save vs. 
poison to avoid; the saving throw should be 
made by the DM, or if by the player it should 
be done before or after the incident to keep 
from tipping off what the saving throw applies 
to). "Mara" will apologize, of course. Any 
animals with the PCs that have a good sense 
of smell will recognize Morgorath's "unnatu 
ral" odor, and react. As "Mara" just passes 
out of sight, "she" will stop as a cat rubs up 
against her legs. Shortly after she has passed 
out of sight, a dog will be heard barking franti 
cally. If questioned, either of these animals 
will give the same sort of answer that the 
barking dog did in the earlier scenario: that 
the halfling had an odd smell. Morgorath will 
try to unobtrusively evade pursuit, if there is 
any, possibly by changing form. The jug con 
tains one of Androch Larrojid*s spare cloaks, a 
set of five crossbow quarrels, and a cheap 
light crossbow that can be disassembled and 
reassembled in 2 rounds but is likely to break 
(50% chance) on any shot after the first four. 

The Shooting 

This will occur as soon as possible after the 
"Clumsy Halfling" incident, whenever the 
PCs are in an exposed public position. 

Morgorath will be hidden on an unoccupied 
rooftop garden, in his natural form, and as the 
PCs go past he will fire at them with the cross 
bow that was in the halfling's stoneware jug. 
Since he is wearing the cloak at this time, only 
his general form will be seen, and he will 
change form behind it to confuse matters fur 
ther. He will miss (on purpose), but he will get 
off as many shots as he can until the charac 
ters are almost upon him. Then he will leave 
behind the jug, the crossbow, and any excess 
clothing and change into a raven. He will fly as 


34 













rapidly as possible to the Quarry Garden. 
Whoever first picks up the cloak will notice 
clinging to it a small dried sprig of some herb. 
(This is boneset, a herb said to have healing 
properties when placed over breaks and 
sprains, and found only along the upper reach 
es of the KewL) A druid of 3rd level will auto 
matically recognize it, as will any herbalist. 
Druids of 1st or 2nd level are 50% and 75% 
likely to identify it. 

In the Quarry Garden 

This scenario will occur when the characters 
pursue Morgorath to the Quarry Garden fol 
lowing "The Shooting , Tt or at any time there 
after when the PCs go to the garden. 
Morgorath, still in the form of a raven, will 
spot them as soon as they enter the area. He 
will get into the shrubbery, drop out of sight, 
and change into an otter. He will then enter 
the garden pond and make for the KewL From 
there he will either head for his boat or will 
cross to his encampment on the other side of 
the river (according to circumstances as the 
DM decides, or 50% chance for each tactic if 
both make sense). The only sign of his pas 
sage will be roiled water and agitated fish in 
the ponds. If questioned, the carp in the ponds 
will be able to tell anyone that the otter has 
made a number of trips back and forth from 
the pond to the river in this manner. 

The Chase 

This will not take place until the characters 
have found Morgorath's forest lair and have 
the centaur's information that he seems to be 
lying in wait for the count to return along the 
forest trail. At this point the characters may 
be in something of a hurry to get to the 
ambush spot. On a positive reaction roll, or if 
they provided aid before, Hloth win suggest 
that the characters detour to a small encamp 
ment of centaurs which is not far off to the 
east; he will be able to persuade centaurs 
there to provide transportation, one centaur 
per PC. Otherwise the characters will have to 
make their way on foot. In any case, Hloth will 
accompany them (perhaps grudgingly, and not 
without a bit of cajoling or bribery on the PCs' 
parts) to show them the place where the 
assault is to occur. (See "Morgorath's Forest 
Lair'* and "The Drunken Centaur/' both 
above, for more information on Hloth.) 

If the characters arrive on centaur-back, 
they will reach the ambush spot before 
Morgorath has done his dirty work. But they 
must confront Morgorath alone. The centaurs 
are not interested in attacking him when he is 
not actually threatening anyone, though they 
have no objection if the player characters wish 
to eliminate what they think is an odd sort of 
highwayman. Morgorath is hidden behind a 
broad oak on the north part of the trail. He is 


fully armed, and is using his most potent poi 
son. His plan is to catch the count by surprise 
as he goes by, and assassinate him. He will try 
to put the PCs out of commission (stun them 
or drive them off, but not kill them) as soon as 
he becomes aware of them, so that they will 
not ruin his plan, Morgorath will be alerted to 
their approach by small birds that he has sent 
to spy out the surrounding terrain. 

If the player characters get this far in time, 
they have passed the test. They need only 


hold off Morgorath for 4 rounds once combat 
begins, after which time the count and two 
guardsmen will be seen rounding the bend of 
the forest path, in great haste, riding ahead of 
the entourage. The centaurs, perceiving the 
situation for what it is, will charge. After a 
moment, Count Lewenn (a 13th level druid) 
will take in the events transpiring in front of 
him and prepare help of his own. If not slain 
(killing Morgorath is not something the player 
characters are likely to accomplish), Mor- 



35 








gorath will take raven form and flee. 

If the player characters arrive at the 
ambush spot on foot, they will find the count 
unconscious and injured from a poisoned bolt, 
and his two men hopelessly entangled . The 
assault has just taken place a matter of min 
utes previously; Morgorath is now lying in 
wait for the rest of the entourage, which con 
sists of 10 zero-level clerks. He intends to 
hinder, immobilize, and/or kill the clerks to 
prevent them from giving aid to the count. At 
this juncture, the PCs can pass the test only if 
some manage to occupy Morgorath while oth 
ers attempt to revive the count with a slow 
poison spell or some similar {and stronger) 
magic. If the count is brought back to con 
sciousness and made aware of what has hap 
pened to him, he can cast neutralize poison on 
himself to get out of jeopardy, 

Hioth Shadow foot-centaur: AC 5; MV 
18"; HD 4; hp 22; MT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6 
(hooves) and 1-8 (cudgel): THACO 15; AL 
N(CG): SA bow for 1-6/1- 6. 

Centaurs (numberequal toPCs): AC 5; MV 
18"; HD 4; hp 18 each; tf AT 3; Dmg ! -6/1-6 
(hooves) and 1-8 (cudgel); THACO 15; AL 
N(CG). 

Count's men (2)-1st level fighters: AC 7 
(leather & shield); MV 12"; HD 1; hp6; tfAT 
1; Dmg 1-6 (spears); THACO 20; AL N. 

Timetable of General Events 
Below is a list of events that will occur regard 
less of the activities of the PCs until they 
thwart or drive away Morgorath. At the 
option of the DM these events may occur 
sooner, but they should not happen any later 
than specified here. 

Day 1: Priestess of Istus rants against for 


eign disease carriers (see "Prophecy on the 
Stair"). 

Day 2: Rats and mice seen by daylight; first 
sign of plague (see "The Reeling Rodent"). 

Day 3: First human and demi-human cases 
of plague. Jumrese reactions to foreigners at 
" 20 %, 

Day 4: Plague takes hold. Temples crowd 
ed. Wealthy leave for country homes, 
jumrese reactions to foreigners at -40%. 

Day 5: Markets dosed. Curfews imposed. 
City gates dosed to traffic in either direction 
to prevent spread of plague, jumrese reac 
tions to foreigners at "50%, 

Day 7: Food supplies begin to run short. 
Some theft, looting. The count expected to 
arrive in 2 days. 

Day 8: The count returns early via the trail 
through the Silverwood. 

Consequences 

If the player characters fail to stop 
Morgorath, then the plague will continue 
unabated until all of Jumre and the surround 
ing area are infected. Eventually the plague 
will spread through the entire Sheldomar 
basin, causing widespread panic and disrup 
tion. PCs must convince the authorities that 
any disturbance they caused in Jumre was 
necessary, if they wish to enter that dty 
again. They are not likely to succeed at this. If 
they were at or near the site of Morgorath *s 
ambush, then the authorities will attempt to 
arrest them, and will detain them for at least a 
week before a defect lie spell establishes their 
innocence. Morgorath will not be seen again; 
by the time anyone with knowledge of the 
assassination attempt gets back to Jumre, 
Androch Larrojid's boat and the two people 


associated with it are nowhere to be found. 

If this adventure is part of the overall cam 
paign, and the test was failed, then all druids in 
the Flanaess will lose 1 point of constitution. 
Morgorath will not appear to the characters 
again in this form until they reach the Tilvanot 
Plateau for the last adventure of the series. 
Whether Morgorath's plot is foiled or not, 
experience may be gained for treasure 
acquired and opponents neutralized in the 
course of the adventure. 

If the player characters pass the test, the 
plague will diminish. Count Lewenn will per 
sonally cure many of the remaining cases, 
which will become noninfectious when 
Morgorath is driven away. Count Lewenn will 
grant honorary knighthoods to the player 
characters, and award one or two useful magi 
cal items (DM's selection) worth 2,000 to 
5,000 g.p. (or 2,000 to 4,000 g.p, for a gift 
which includes a weapon of any sort). He will 
also provide mounts, transport up or down 
the river, equipment, and even (if he is taken 
into the confidence of the player characters) 
advice, all within reason. Unless they make 
strong protests to the contrary, the player 
characters will be detained for some weeks as 
guests. 

Foiling Morgorath r s plot is worth a number 
of experience points in itself to each PC. The 
award will be either 700 x.p. or a number of 
x.p. sufficient to raise a druid in the party (if 
any) to the next higher level of experience, 
after all other x.p. for this adventure have 
been credited, whichever amount is greater. 








if ^ 

& 


Elredd 

Located on the Wild Coast, Elredd is a city of 
around 8,500 people. Like most settlements 
in this somewhat lawless land, iCs a fortified 
rity P with crenellated walls and guard towers. 
Its single main gate is closed when the hom 
sounds nightfall and remains shut until the 
dawn bell is rung. 

Graven above the gate is a single word: 
"Kabal." In an archaic and mostly forgotten 
dialect of the Baklunish tongue-which is now 
known only to bards and perhaps people who 
have spent enough time in the Paynims to pick 
up some of the language-it means "fate," but 
with a special twist. When someone "meets 
his fate" in a contest of arms, that's "kabal " 
Thus, the word is very appropriate to the city. 

Elredd is a militaristic town, populated by 
mercenaries and other warlike adventurers. If 
a war leader wanted to hire a force of merce 
naries, he could do much worse than to visit 
Elredd. Of course, warriors make up only a 
part of the population-the infrastructure of 
the city is maintained by the usual merchants, 
shopkeepers, laborers, and other ordinary 
citizens-but the proportion of higher-level 
NPCs (3rd level and above) is much higher 
than is found in virtually every other munici 
pality in the Flanaess. One out of every 75 citi 
zens is a character of 1st level or above. Of 
these, 40% are fighters, 10% members of 
fighter subclasses, 15% thieves, 10% clerics, 
5% magic-users or illusionists, and the 
remaining 20% miscellaneous or multi- 
classed. 

With so many hard-bitten warriors wander 
ing the streets packing steel, one might 
expect the city to be the "murder capital" of 
the Flanaess, and reading the statistics of vio 
lent deaths-of which there are many-might 
convince one that Elredd must be a war zone. 
But statistics can be deceiving. Actually walk 
ing the streets of Elredd would give a different 
picture. Unlike other Wild Coast towns, 
Elredd is orderly, almost polite. No members 
of the police or city watch patrol the thorough 
fares; there*s no need for them. 

To the amazement of many, Elredd epito 
mizes the phenomenon of natural selection as 
applied to society: people who transgress 
against others typically die, and are gone from 
the population. If someone kills another with 
out a good reason, the killer will himself be 
killed. If someone is killed for an appropriate 
reason-an insult, perhaps-that's just fine. 
Thus, the social climate of Elredd is breeding 
a population of "polite" warriors: not meek, 
not weak, just not obnoxious. It's such an 
interesting process that many sages, bards, 
and other observers of human (and demi- 
human) nature are drawn to Elredd to study it 


... but the gods help them if they act patron 
izing toward those they're studying! 

Because the population has become self- 
regulating with regard to social behavior, 
there's no need for an internal police force, 
and the central government of the town- 
what scanty government there actually is- 
has little need to lay down laws. In fact, in 
Elredd there are only two laws, and they're 
both unwritten: The Rule of Fast Steel ("The 
one with the fastest steel makes the rules") 
and The Golden Rule ("There ain't no such 
thing as a free lunch"). People who trans 
gress the unwritten laws die; it's that simple. 

Elreddi justice is a street-comer thing. If a 
person considers himself wronged, but isn't 
sure enough of his position to cut the trans 
gressor down, he might convene a "jury" of 
several witnesses to the event. There's no 
prosecution or defense; the jury members 
simply give their opinions on whether the 
transgressor deserves to die. The wronged 
party will (usually) abide by the majority deci 
sion. 

While a good portion of the city's inhabitants 
will tend toward chaotic in individual align 
ment, and many are evil, social evolution has 
given the city as a whole a slightly lawful neu 
tral alignment, with occasional true neutral 
tendencies. 

What all this means to visitors is that they'll 
be treated with polite respect by most people 
they meet... as long as they treat others in 
the same manner and don't overstep the 
bounds of civilized behavior. If they do over 
step the bounds, they'll almost certainly be 
challenged to a duel or cut down in the 
streets, and no bystander will make a move to 
help them. Some citizens make allowances for 
strangers-"They don't know our ways"- 
and will warn visitors about the ways of 
Elredd, but such people are rare. Most let 
their steel do their talking. 

The current ruler of the city is a celebrated 
mercenary general named Brego Hammer- 
fist, He is a middle-aged-but still physically 
daunting-high-level human fighter with an 
incredibly impressive (and quite bloody) per 
sonal history. Considering his achievements, 
one would probably expect Brego to be a kill 
ing machine with no sensitivity for the finer 
things in life. In fact, Brego is intelligent, well 
educated, and a very good administrator. He 
has published several volumes of verse under 
the pseudonym of Ajax Wheelwright, 

Brego Hammerhst-male 15th level fight 
er; AC 5 (chain mail); MV 9"; HD 15; hp 90: 
Str 17, Int 15, Wis 14, Dex 12, Con 17, Cha 
15; MT2; Dmg3-9 (broadsword) or 2-5 (dag 
ger); THAC0 5; AL N. 

Brego is assisted by his staff of five aides, all 
fighters; Willem (10th level), Alhassan (9th), 
Tal Summereven (9th), Troch (9th), and Jenna 


(7th). Brego and his aides don't really make 
laws: they simply handle relationships 
between Elredd and other governments, and 
take care of matters that normal city dwellers 
don't care to handle themselves. They also 
handle the dispensation of property if-as is 
sometimes the case-a landowner without 
official heirs is slain. In such a case, the prop 
erty devolves upon the city, and would-be 
owners participate in a sealed-bid auction. 
The city holds the bidding open for fifteen 
days, then sells the property to the highest 
bidder. 

Brego claims no title for himself, but the 
populace usually refers to him as "the chief' 
(a sign of serious respect among these hard 
bitten types). His aides are "the chiefs men" 
and are accorded almost as much respect as 
Brego himself. 

Brego and his staff draw no salary, but by 
tradition all their wants and needs are taken 
care of at no charge. There's no risk that this 
benefit will be abused-the Elreddi aren't 
folks that would suffer a tyrant to live. 

Elredd has no standing army as such, but 
Brego's office pays good wages (standard 
wages as described on page 29 of the 
Dungeon Masters Guide) to the City Force. 
The members of this uniformed paramilitary 
organization serve as wall and gate guards. 
For as long as anyone can remember, the 
force has been composed entirely of qualified 
volunteers (1st level fighters and a smaller 
number of thieves); conscription has not been 
necessary, since the pay is fair and the work is 
steady-although, on occasion, perilous. (If 
the PCs decide to spend time in Elredd, some 
of them may wish to apply for a place on the 
force.) 

There are no taxes in Elredd (at least, not 
under that name; the Elreddi probably 
wouldn't stand for it). There is, however, a 
"security levy" charged each year against 
property owners-1% of the property's total 
value. This money goes toward the expense 
of maintaining the walls, paying the City 
Force, and meeting other financial obliga 
tions. 

Since it's in such an enviable location- 
astride trade routes, surrounded by very fer 
tile land (in comparison to the rest of the Wild 
Coast, at least), supplied with fresh water by 
springs, and protected in some part by its 
location atop a low but rugged hill-there has 
been a settlement of some sort on the site of 
Elredd for more than a thousand years. The 
city itself came into being only a century or so 
ago, however. It was founded-if that's the 
correct word-by a warrior named Uroch, 
who hailed from the Nomads before he 
discovered the wonders of civilization (and the 
wonders of the mercenary's wages that "civi 
lized" people would pay him). Uroch, accom- 


37 






parried by a group of mercenaries loyal to him, 
was "between engagements'* and needed a 
place to settle for a while. Always the strate 
gist, Uroch built a fort on the site of what 
would be Elredd. 

As more mercenaries were drawn to 
Uroch's banner-and, after his death, as war 
riors were attracted by the nature of the soci 
ety he had begun-the fort grew into a town 
and the town into a city. The dimensions and 
exact site of Uroch's original fort are still visi 
ble, since some of the walls still stand {albeit 
sometimes incorporated into other buildings). 
In fact, Brego's personal residence is the 
restored central keep of Uroch's fort. (An 
interesting aside: it's perhaps in memory of 
Uroch's Bakiunish heritage that the word 
"KabaT appears over the gate of the city, 
since there are few of that race-and thus few 
speakers of that language-on the Wild 
Coast.) 

Elredd is home to representatives of all the 
major races, including many humanoids, some 
ogres and their kin, and even a few giants. All 
are "civilized" by the standards of the dty; 
they don't cause trouble. Bloodthirsty ores 
can kill each other, but kill others only at the 
price of getting killed themselves. The Com 
mon tongue is predominant in the dty, but 
there are neighborhoods where other lan 
guages are used exclusively. Listening to con 
versation in crowds or at the market, a person 
could well hear all of the major-and many of 
the minor- -tongues in common use. 

As would befit a town of such mixed heri 
tage, there are temples to most of the major 
gods of Oerth. Most are tiny, little more than 
chapels, and the more aggressively evil 
faiths-particularly those that embrace the 
sacrifice of sentient beings-practice under 
the deepest of secrecy. The largest temple is 
near to the official residence of Brego Ham- 
merfist, and is dedicated to the hero-deity 
Kelanen, Prince of Swords. Kelanen is Bre 
ga's chosen patron, and most of the warriors 
in the city pay him some degree of homage. 

Because of the adventurous, free booting 
nature of its populace, all currencies are 
accepted in Elredd. Value of coins is calculated 
only by the metal of the coin and its weight. 


The shape or denomination is incidental. 
Thus, stores all have tiny scales which are 
used to calculate value. A certain purchase 
might be worth five "weights" of gold: gold 
coins are added to one side of the scale until it 
balances. Change is given in "weights" of oth 
er metals, or even by cutting coins into por 
tions, Values of metals are as given in the 
Players Handbook: 1 weight of platinum = 5 
weights of gold = 10 of electrym = 100 of sil 
ver = 1,000 of copper. Although visitors 
might find it hard to believe, the vast majority 
of storekeepers' and innkeepers' scales are 
honest. The reason is simple: any business 
man found giving dishonest measure would be 
killed out of hand by the first customer to find 
himself so cheated. 

Laventhal's, although rather spartanly fur 
nished, is the city's highest-quaiity inn. Prices 
for food, drink, and lodging are higher than 
average, although not exorbitantly so. 
Because of its location and its name, The 
Footsore TC&nderer is the inn where short 
term visitors are most likely to lodge. Both 
this place and Bay lock's Rest have average 
prices, as do a couple of taverns, The Coaster 
and The Stirrup Cup. For those with a sense 
of adventure and/or not much money, Wilfs 
and The Bullhead's Den offer passable food 
and drink at fairly low prices-along with the 
prospect of seeing, or getting involved in, 
some roughhousing. 

The geography of the Wild Coast is such 
that a heavy fog cloaks Elredd once a year, in 
early autumn when the prevailing wind shifts 
to the northeast at the onset of the cooler 
months. For the duration (between one and 
two weeks), the city almost totally closes 
down: all doors are locked, all windows are 
latched, all lights bum. The reason? Stories 
from villages on the coast telling of the depre 
dations of "the drowned ones," sea zombies 
from Vfeolly Bay who follow the sea fog inland. 
Although Elredd is several miles inland and 
safe from the sea zombies' tender mercies 
(probably!), the stories from the coast are 
enough to put a good scare into the dty. 

Like many people across the world whose 
living depends on physical fitness, the popula 
tion of Elredd is almost pathologically afraid of 


disease: it's something they can't fight, yet it 
can lay them low. Warriors in particular hate 
the concept of sickness. Thus, the spreading 
plague is about the worst horror that the peo 
ple of Elredd can imagine. Even vague rumors 
of an outbreak in the dty can drive normally 
level-headed individuals to irrational behavior. 

For encounters within the city, use the 
City/Town Encounters Matrix on page 191 of 
the Dungeon Masters Guide. The DM should 
keep in mind the racial and cultural character 
istics of the city, and should feel free to modify 
these encounters to better suit the nature of 
Elredd. 

Map Key 

1. Kabal Gate 

2. Brego Hammerfist's residence 

3. Counciihouse (residence of Brego's staff) 

4. Harper's Hold 

5. City Square 

6. Temple to Kelanen 

7. Laventhal's Inn 

8. Wild Coast Trading Syndicate 

(warehouse and offices) 

9. Cemetery and mausoleums 

10. Trazt's Ajrmory and Gymnasium 

11. The Arcanium (mages' meeting forum) 

12. Wolfs Tavern 

13. The Coaster (tavern) 

14. City Force guardhouse and armory 

15. The Footsore Wanderer (inn) 

16. The Stirrup Cup (tavern) 

17. Baylock's Rest (inn) 

18. Traders' Market 

19. Armorers' Square (many arms dealers, 

weaponsmiths, etc.) 

20. V ray mar AJ Korven's Livery Stables 

21. Bullhead's Den (tavern) 

22. Gateway Street 

23. The Processional (street) 

24. Way of the Heroes 

25. W^y of the Lords 

26. The Bow (street) 

27. Market Street 

28. Avenue of the Red Lanterns 

29. Avenue of the Lance 









DIAMBETH'S DELVING 


This adventure is designed for up to five char 
acters of levels 4-6. A bard character, or one 
who is aspiring to be a bard, will be very help 
ful, although not strictly necessary, 

DM's Introduction 

Among the more intriguing residents of the 
Wild Coast area was the bard Diambeth. 
Unlike Tenser and Mordenkainen, he wasn't 
bom in the region, but spent his twilight years 
in Elredd. While traveling through the area, 
Diambeth saved the necks of an adventuring 
company in a very tight spot-in fact, sparing 
them from the cooking pots of a family of hun 
gry ogres-and thus was accepted as an hon 
orary Elreddi. Finding the city to his liking and 
a good source of inspiration for his songs, he 
bought a villa, which he named Harper's Hold, 
within the city walls and lived out the last 
years of his life there. He died four decades 
ago, and such is the turnover in the population 
of Elredd that few now remember him. {This 
is highly ironic, since his name lives on in most 
other civilized lands, and his wonderful songs 
are still sung around many hearths at night.) 
His villa is now in the hands of a cranky dwar- 
ven mercenary officer named Zymor Giant- 
bane. 

The disease arrived in Elredd a day or two 
before the PCs. Although there are only a 
handful of confirmed cases- and these are 
only incidences of mild fever among older and 
more sickly residents-the fear is starting to 
take hold. The city's general paranoia about 
illness, as described in the section on Elredd 
in Ye Olde City Scroll , is fanning the flames, as 
it were, and fear is rapidly building toward 
panic. Anyone who shows the edemas typical 
of the Red Death will be shunned, and some 
blade-happy inhabitants have taken to cutting 
down suspected carriers on sight. 

Note on encounters: For encounters within 
the city, use the City/Town Encounters 
Matrix on page 191 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide. If a dice roll indicates a thief, assassin, 
or monk, there's a 75% chance that this rep 
resents one of the minions of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. On the instructions of the 
Brotherhood-whose leaders are becoming 
more and more concerned about the signifi 
cance of the PCs-these minions are following 
the PCs and trying to find out as much about 
them as possible (perhaps going so far as to 
pick their pockets for informative items). 
Such people will, of course, never admit to 
their connection with the Brotherhood; 
indeed, they'll die-even take their own 
lives-before divulging their nature or mis 
sion. 

Entering the City 

When the PCs reach Elredd, they find the 
main gate shut. If it's daylight, they notice that 


theyTe being observed through a view slit; if 
it's night, they must pound on the gate or oth 
erwise attract the attention of the guards. In 
either case, once they announce their inten 
tion to enter, a voice asks them where they 
hail from. If they claim to be residents of 
Elredd, they're allowed in. Otherwise, an 
armed guard (one of the City Force) comes 
out through a postern gate-carefully shutting 
it behind him-and approaches them. Order 
ing the PCs to stand their ground, he unwill 
ingly draws closer (he obviously hates this 
duty) and looks them over very carefully. (His 
duty is, of course, to look for symptoms of the 
disease, but the PCs might not realize this.) If 
he notices any PC showing symptoms of the 
disease-or anything that could be mistaken 
for such-he rushes back inside the city and 
yells at the party through the view slit to "Get 
out of here! No plague carriers!" If the PCs 
are free from obvious symptoms, he apolo 
gizes, explaining that he was just doing his 
job, and allows the PCs to enter. 

If the PCs decide for some reason to fight 
the guard, or try to go over the wall (by flying, 
for example), they are immediately engaged 
by five City Force bowmen from the battle 
ments atop the walls (the battlements grant 
these bowmen 75% cover). An additional five 
guards will appear every three rounds, 
attracted by the commotion, to a total of 
thirty-five. All guards have similar statistics: 

City Force Guard-1st level fighters: AC 8; 
MV 12"; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (short 
sword or longbow); THACO 20; AL LN. 

This newly instituted inspection procedure 
was ordered by Brego Hammerfist himself, 
and applies to all strangers wishing to enter 
the city, 

Cymbelline Again 

As soon as the PCs enter the city, they see a 
familiar figure waiting for them: it's Cymbel 
line (from "The Sage's Tower," Adventure 
#1), leaning casually against a wall. "I recog 
nized your voices as you talked with the 
guard," he says, "and I wondered whether 
you were making any progress. The plague is 
here, y'know. I wonder if you might be carri 
ers ... ?" If questioned, he claims that he, 
too, has been following the spread of the dis 
ease, and so it shouldn't be too surprising that 
they've met once more. If the PCs blame him 
for misinforming them with regard to the 
Sage's Tower and the creature in Rookroost, 
he claims that he advised them rightly: all the 
evidence showed that the beasts from Relmor 
Bay were the cause of the plague. "In any 
case," he says cryptically, "you comported 
yourselves well." Now he has further clues 
concerning the nature of-and possible cure 
for-the disease, "Are you familiar," he asks, 
"with the bard Diambeth?" 


Any aspiring bard in the party will know the 
name. For the benefit of those who are not 
bards, Cymbelline relates the story as 
described in the DM's Introduction above. 
One of Diambeth's songs-one that will be 
familiar to any would-be bard-talks of a 
"wasting disease" that swept Oerik nearly a 
century ago, and of a sovereign treatment for 
it. Cymbelline believes that the disease men 
tioned in the song must be the Red Death, and 
that the disease currently threatening the land 
is a new outbreak of the same ailment. The 
song only mentions the treatment in passing, 
giving no real details. But it's Cymbelline 5 s 
contention that the song as it's sung now has 
obviously been altered. Surely there must be 
more information on the wasting disease-and 
on the cure-in Diambeth's original notes. 

Where are these notes? Well, Cymbelline 
explains, they weren't found when Diam 
beth's possessions were moved out of his villa 
after his death. But he's heard from another 
bard who in his youth was apprenticed to 
Diambeth that there was a set of cellars under 
Harper's Hold-"Diambeth's Delving," the 
old bard called them in jest. There has been no 
mention of the cellars since Zymor Giantbane 
took possession of the villa, and Cymbelline is 
convinced that the dwarf has never found 
them ... or the papers they contain, Cymbel 
line suggests that the PCs should continue 
their search by exploring Diambeth's Delving. 

Harper's Hold 

Cymbelline leads them to the gates of Diam 
beth s old villa. Harper's Hold is a sprawling, 
gracious mansion constructed of fine marble. 
Its lines bespeak great wealth, but wealth 
tempered with good taste: there's no feature 
that doesn't enhance the building's sense of 
serene dignity. 

Harper's Hold is surrounded by walls 12 
feet high topped with wicked spikes (the 
spikes are obviously a recent addition). 
There's one entrance into the grounds, 
through a set of ornate wrought-iron gates. 
Inside the walls, the grounds are pleasantly 
landscaped, with rolling lawns, graceful shade 
trees and sumptuous flowerbeds. Though still 
beautiful, the grounds aren't as well tended as 
they might be (the current occupant isn't as 
fastidious about his garden as Diambeth was). 

Through the gates, the PCs can see move 
ment among the bushes. In fact, there are five 
attack dogs loose in the grounds. These dogs 
have free run of the grounds twenty-four 
hours a day, and are trained to attack 
intruders on sight. The only people the dogs 
will obey are Zymor Giantbane himself and 
three dog handlers on his staff. The dog han 
dlers live in the servants' quarters attached to 
the villa. Such is the reputed ferocity of 
Zymor's dogs that any deliveries to the villa 


40 




are simply left outside the gate. Anyone wish' 
ing to enter or leave the villa itself must be 
escorted to and from the gate by Zymor or 
one of the handlers. 

Attack dogs (5): AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2 + 2; 
hpft. 9, 10 r 13. 14; § AT 1; Dmg2-8; THACG 
16; AL N. 

Dog ha ndlers-zero-level commoners (3): 
AC 10; MV 12"; hp 3, 3, 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4 
(dagger); THAC0 20; AL LN. 


Zymor Giantbane 

The PCs may decide to approach Zymor 
Giantbane and ask his permission to search 
for and explore the forgotten cellars. If this is 
their intention, Cymbelline makes no effort to 
dissuade them-even though he knows the 
likely outcome of their attempt. In fact, he 
wishes them luck and leaves them to go about 
their business. 

The first problem Is getting Zymor's atten- 
tion. There's no bell at the gate, or any other 


means of announcing the presence of a visitor. 
(This reflects the fact that very few people 
ever want to visit Zymor-and that's just the 
way he likes it.) Yelling or otherwise causing a 
disturbance outside the gate has a 10% 
chance per round of attracting the notice of 
Zymor, and a 75% chance per round of attract 
ing the notice of passersby (some of whom 
might, at the DM's discretion, give the PCs a 
little insight into the personality of Zymor). 
Such a disturbance will also attract the dogs, 
who gather just inside the gate, barking and 
snarling viciously at the PCs, (Killing or other 
wise silencing the dogs might be a tempting 
prospect, but isn't a good way of ingratiating 
oneself with Zymor.) 

If the PCs succeed in attracting the atten 
tion of Zymor Giantbane, or if they otherwise 
gain an audience with him (perhaps by flying to 
the villa), they find that the current owner of 
Harper's Hold has neither the serenity nor the 
dignity of his home. He's a cocky little dwarf, 
even more puffed up with self- importance 
than most of his sort. Zymor thinks that 
music, the arts in general-and bards in 
particular-are a waste of time, and so will 
have no interest at all in listening to talk about 
his illustrious predecessor at Harper's Hold. 
Conversation with Zymor on any topic will 
probably prove irritating, useless, loud, and 
very brief: he's hostile toward nonmercena 
ries, elves, bards, magic-users, and strangers 
in genera] (thus, he's sure to dislike each of 
the PCs for one reason or another). In a city 
where the effective penalty for rudeness is 
often death, Zymor survives simply because 
he's very much a recluse-and because he's 
such a tough opponent. 

If the PCs explain their goal and ask for the 
dwarfs permission to explore his cellars, his 
response is predictable: "Forget it. My 
house. Zog off." If he is at the gate, he stomps 
back to his house and slams the door. If he has 
met the PCs at the door or inside the villa, he 
orders them to leave and calls the dog han 
dlers to escort them back to the gate. 

Note that any conversation with Zymor at 
the gate will definitely attract a small crowd of 
onlookers-witnesses, in case the PCs are 
tempted to do something drastic to Zymor. A 
conversation with Zymor within the villa-if 
the PCs can somehow gain entrance-is wit 
nessed by at least two servants (same statis 
tics as the dog handlers). The locals, as well 
as his own servants, find Zymor almost intol 
erably rude. If the PCs decide to do away with 
him, they w T on't be censured for it (although 
they probably aren't enough aware of the ten 
or of the city to realize this fact). 

Zymor Giantbane, male dwarf 10th level 
fighter: AC 0: MV 8"; HD 10; hp 88; #AT 3/2; 
Dmg 3-6 (hammer) or 7-15 (battleaxe), 
including +1 strength bonus); Str 17, Int 12, 



41 

























Wis 9, Dex 14, Con 18, Cha 9; THACO11 or 9 
(with gauntlets); AL CN. He wears a set of 
bracers of defense AC 2 and a ring of protec- 
tion +2, and carries a hammer +1 on his belt. 
If he's girded for battle, which will occur if the 
PCs storm the gate and rush the villa, he 
wears gauntlets of ogre power (increasing his 
strength bonus to +3 "to hit" and +6 on 
damage) and wields a battieaxe + 2 * 

In the Out Door 

After the PCs have failed to gain Zymor's 
permission-or if they decide not to even 
try-Cymbelline returns. He's done a little 
research, he says: he thinks there's another 
entrance to the cellars* In fact, it was probably 
designed as an escape tunnel, since it emerg 
es outside the villa's walls; Diambeth was 
always a realist about the possibility of attack 
on his adopted city. The half-elf believes it 
should get them into the cellars , however * * . 
if they can find if* He knows its approximate 
location, but believes it's almost certain to be 
concealed in some way. 

Cymhelline leads the PCs into an alley that 
winds its way behind the wall surrounding 
Harper's Hold* Unlike the beautiful grounds 
on the other side of the wall, the alley is foul 
smelling and filthy, with a midden at the end of 
it. Cymhelline looks doubtfully at the midden, 
but says that he thinks the escape tunnel ends 
around there. 

Searching through the garbage is a noisome 
task, and Cymbelline declines to participate. 
For each character searching, roll ld6 each 
complete turn spent searching. On a 1 or 2, an 
elf or thief will find the secret door; other 
characters must roll a 1 to succeed. Each 
turn, there's also a 25% chance that a ran 
domly chosen character has unearthed either 
a rat (85% chance) or a rot grub (15% 
chance). 

Rat: AC 7; MV 15"; HD V*; hp 2; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1; THACO 20; AL N; SA 5% chance of 
causing serious disease. 

Rot grub: AC 9; MV 1"; HD 1 hp; MT 0; 
Dmg nil; THACO n/a; AL N; SA burrowing 
will kill in 1-3 turns. 

The door leading into Diambeth's escape 
tunnel is set into the wall just above ground 
level, and cunningly concealed as part of the 
stonework. Once the door has been found, it's 
easy to see how to open it. The door, when 
open, is less than eighteen inches wide-a 
tight squeeze for anybody larger than a half- 
ling or gnome, and absolutely impossible for 
broad-shouldered characters (such as 
humans, half-ores or dwarves) wearing 
armor. It's very dark on the other side of the 
door. . ., 

At this point* Cymbelline announces to the 
PCs that he'll accompany them into Diam 
beth's Delving, claiming nothing more than 


idle curiosity, and also saying that he has no 
intention of getting himself hurt helping them. 
If at any time the PCs ask him for help, his 
response is typical Cymbelline (aggravating): 
"Come, come. This is your quest* heroes* 
I' m just along for the ride, y ' know " If the PCs 
refuse to let Cymbelline accompany them, he 
simply waits until they've gone on ahead and 
then follows them* As a last resort, he'll use 
his sword's power to c/jarm any characters 
left behind to prevent him from following. 

Diambeth's Delving Encounter Key 
The entire cellar is in total darkness* Unless 
otherwise noted, ceilings are 10 feet high. 
Doors are typically brass-bound oak, and 
most aren't locked* 

1* Entry Passage 


You squeeze through the narrow opening 
into darkness. As you make light, you see 
a passageway stretching westward ahead 
of you* The passage is narrow, forcing you 
to move in single file* and your shoulders 
brush the cold stone walls on each side* 
The ceiling is correspondingly low, no 
more than five feet above the floor* 

Cobwebs festoon the ceiling, and your 
feet disturb dust which hangs in the cool, 
dry air as you move uncomfortably along. 
The musty smell of disuse is in your nos 
trils. 

The tunnel slopes steadily downward, 
and ends with a stone wall. Under a layer 
of dust, you can see a painting of sorts, 
composed of symbols and parallel lines. 


The passageway is the home of two large spi 
ders that will attempt to drop on the PCs as 
they pass by* 

Large spiders (2): AC 8; MV 6" *15"; HD 
1 +1; hp 2, 3; MT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 18; AL 
N; SA poison (+ 2 bonus to saving throw). 

A dwarf will recognize that the western end 
of the tunnel is some fifteen feet below ground 
level. 

Any bard or any PC with musical experi 
ence will immediately recognize that the 
painting on the wall represents a bar from a 
piece of music. The symbols on the parallel 
lines are notes, forming a musical phrase: F#, 
E, G* A, D, A. 

The dust has dung to the wall, making it 
easier to see the cracks where the secret 
door fits* This gives PCs a +1 bonus to their 
normal chances of detecting the door. It isn't 
locked* and opens easily* 


2* Corridor 


As you open the door, a voice speaks out of 
the shadows to your right: "Go back or 
you will be killed.'' Your light casts hideous, 
misshapen shadows onto the walls as you 
turn toward the voice. 

In an alcove to the right of the door 
stands a figure that looks almost like a 
human * * . but not quite* Its angular head 
almost brushes the 10-foot-high ceiling* 
and its shoulders are two axe-handles 
across. Your light glints off metal-here 
and there darkened by patches of rust- 
and reflects redly, like newly kindled fire, 
from deep crystal eyes. With a mechanical 
grinding, the metal monstrosity steps for 
ward, raising an arm to block your prog 
ress. "Go back,'' it intones again, "or you 
will be killed." 


Although the metal man may resemble an iron 
golem, it's nowhere near that powerful. It was 
created by two friends of Diambeth-a power 
ful wizard, and a high priest to the goddess 
Lirr-as a favor to the bard* to serve him as a 
guardian. Its powers come from variations of 
the spells animate object , magic mouth r and 
other dweomers. Originally its metal skin was 
almost impenetrable* but rust has weakened it 
considerably. Its joints have also suffered 
from oxidation, slowing the guardian down. 
The metal man was enchanted to obey Diam 
beth's simple instructions. Without his orders 
to the contrary, it's now serving to prevent 
unauthorized entry into the bard's cellars. 

Its "programming" is such that it will try to 
bar entry without hurting anyone. Ifitcan'tdo 
so, or if it's attacked itself* it will fight, striking 
with its fists* until its opponents are killed or 
flee the cellar (it will not pursue), or until it's 
destroyed. If intruders manage to evade it and 
enter the rest of the cellar, it will follow them 
stolidly until it can catch them and expel or kill 
them. The guardian's senses extend to the 
western ends of the forked hall* If anyone 
comes down from the villa above, the guard 
ian comes to investigate, challenging any 
intruders and denying them free access to the 
cellars. 

Diambeth had the guardian "programmed" 
with a musical password, to allow friends or 
colleagues to gain entry when he wasn't 
around. This password is the musical phrase 
painted on the outside of the door. If anyone 
sings, whistles or plays this phrase within 40 
feet of the guardian, it will immediately return 
to its alcove and pay no more attention to the 
party. 

Guardian: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 8; hp 45; #AT 
1 per 2 rounds; Dmg2-20; THACO 12: ALN; 
SD immune to mind-altering spells, fire-based 












attacks do half damage, pointed/edged weap 
ons do half damage, A heat metaf spell does 1- 
10 points of damage per round to the device. 
While the spell is in effect, however, the 
guardian gains a +3 bonus to the damage it 
inflicts with a successful hit (similar to being 
struck by a red-hot mace). 

3. Well Room 

In the center of the room is a low stone 
parapet surrounding a well. The water 
level is five or six feet below the top of the 
parapet, A bucket on a mildewing rope lies 
abandoned in a comer. 

There seems to be a flaw in the brick 
work on the north side of the well, six inch 
es above the water's surface. 

Diambeth, aware that his adopted city could at 
any time fall under siege, had this shaft sunk 
so that he T d always have a dependable supply 
of water. He never had to use it, but its exist 
ence was always a comfort. 

The apparent flaw in the brickwork is just 
that-a flaw in the brickwork, with no other 
significance (although the PCs will have to get 
much closer to it to recognize the feet, of 
course). 

The mildewed rope attached to the bucket 
has a breaking strain of 50 pounds-enough to 


pull up a bucket of water, but nowhere near 
enough to safely lower a character to investi 
gate. The water is very cold, and tastes 
brackish (the level of the water table has 
changed since Diambeth sank the shaft, and 
the well has become contaminated). 

4. Wine Cellar 

Five barrels of blackened oak rest on tres 
tle stands. The air is rich with a bitter 
sweet smell: wine mixed with vinegar. 

The barrels contain five of Diambeth S s favor 
ite vintages. Three of them have turned to 
vinegar (barrels are rarely completely air 
tight, and oxygen has soured the wine). The 
fourth has also spoiled, but in a different way. 
It tastes sweet, almost syrupy, with an after 
taste of decay. Anyone drinking more than 
two swallows of the wine suffers nausea for 2- 
12 rounds (save vs. poison for half duration); 
during the nausea, the victim attacks and 
defends at "2. The onset of the nausea 
occurs 1-3 rounds after drinking the wine. 

The fifth vintage, in contrast, has dramati 
cally improved with age. From a merely good 
wine, it's evolved into an outstanding wine: 
rich, full-bodied and balanced. The barrel con 
tains about two gallons of wine, which could 
be sold for 40 g.p. per gallon. The barrel of 


wine weighs only 25 pounds, but is awkward 
to carry. 

5. Armory 

Weapons hang on the walls-a longs word, 
a bastard sword, a hand axe, a light cross 
bow, and a rack with half a dozen javelins. 

A quiver hanging from a hook contains 15 
bolts for the crossbow. All of the weapons 
show signs of heavy use coupled with care 
ful maintenance: the mark of a careful 
adventurer. 

On the wall opposite the door are sev 
eral mementos and trophies: two notched 
and rusted ore scimitars crossed beneath a 
cloven shield; a huge stone axe that must 
weigh almost 100 pounds; and a blood 
stained green banner with the symbol of a 
red hand on it. 

After a moment you notice that this wall 
is different from the others. While they are 
stone, this one is made of brick. 

Unlike Diambeth*s own weapons on the other 
walls, the ore scimitars are of very poor qualiy 
because of their condition, !f one of these 
blades is used in combat, there's a cumulative 
10% chance per round that it will break. 

The brick is newer than the stonework of 
the other walls, as a dwarf will recognize 




Diambeth's Delving 

Scale: 1 square = 5 feet 


43 














immediately* Pounding on the brick wall with a 
heavy object reveals, because of a hollow 
sound, that there's a space behind it. Tearing a 
hole in the brickwork without magical aid will 
take eight character-turns (one person work 
ing will take eight turns, two people will take 
four turns, etc,); characters must have a 
strength of 12 or more to be counted toward 
this total* 

As soon as a small opening is made in the 
brick wall, the reek of decay pours out into the 
room. When the hole is larger, the PCs can 
see there's a cavity behind the brick, perhaps 
two feet deep, backed by a stone wall similar 
to the others in the room. There seems to be 
something lying crumpled on the floor of this 
cavity, * * . 


As you crane forward for a better view, 
the object moves, lunging for you with 
frightening speed. Long, dirty claws reach 
for your throat. 


The creature within is a wight, which immedi 
ately tries to kill all living creatures it can 
reach (except Cymbelline; the monster is 
somehow aware that there is something dif 
ferent about the half-elf). 

Wight: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; hp 15; 
#AT 1; Dmg 14; THACO 13; AL IE; SA 
energy drain; SD spell immunity, only hit by 
silver or magic weapons* 

The wight was once a brutal mercenary 
captain, who came to Harper's Hold to force 
Diambeth into giving him some information 
that the bard wished to keep secret. When it 
became obvious he had no choice, the bard 
summoned his guardian from room 2 to slay 
the captain. While there would be no legal 
consequences from his act, Diambeth decided 
it would be best if the captain's colleagues 
never found out about his fate. Rather than 
dumping the body outside his grounds as he 
would otherwise have done, the bard made 
other arrangements: a secret chamber, where 
the captain would remain undisturbed. As 
with others of great evil, however, the cap 
tain's spirit didn't find rest. Consumed with 
hatred for Diambeth-which, over the years, 
generalized to hatred for the living-the cap 
tain became a wight. His undead strength was 
insufficient to set himself free, so he had to 
wait until someone else broke into his resting 
place. 

On its body, the wight has a gold brooch 
worth 250 g.p. Its garb-now mostly mold- 
ered away-was once green with the emblem 
of a red hand on the left breast. 


6. Stairway 


Ahead of you a stairway leads upward. At 
the top of the stair, you see a closed door, 
secured with a latch. 


There is no lock. The latch is easy to open 
from this side of the door. 

A dwarven character can easily determine 
that the staircase has a rise of 15 feet and ends 
at what would be floor level in the villa. The 
door at the top opens into Zymor's study (see 
"Concluding the Adventure" below, for 
details from this point). 

7* Lute Room 

The door is locked. 


Three lutes hang on the walls. A work 
bench holds a fourth lute, only partially fin 
ished. Tools of the lutemaker's trade are 
scattered around the work surface, along 
with pieces of teak, ebony, maple, and 
rosewood. Even under its patina of dust, 
you immediately sense that this room was 
the place where Diambeth spent some of 
his happiest hours* 


Two of the lutes have warped with age: their 
fingerboards are no longer true, their strings 
have broken, and some of the fine wood strips 
that form their bellies have sprung loose. The 
third, however, has lost nothing to the years. 
It's the acme of the lutemaker's art, as any 
lutist who plays it will immediately recognize . 
Although it's nonmagical, its purity of tone is 
such that it enhances the influence and inspi 
rational abilities of any bard or aspiring bard 
who uses it for that purpose. If such a charac 
ter playing the instrument is trying to influ 
ence the reactions of NPCs or monsters, he 
gains an additional -1 modification to the 
objects' saving throws; someone playing the 
instrument in an attempt to inspire his com 
rades need only play for two rounds, rather 
than the normal three. The lute is worth 750 
g.p. (at least) to the right buyer (a bard, musi 
cologist, or collector). 

Stored in a drawer of the workbench is a 
book-Meditations on the Lutemaker's Art- 
that Diambeth was writing. Even though the 
bard died before completing the work, it's 
worth 250 g*p. to the right buyer (a bard, lute- 
maker, or collector), 

8. Storage Room 


Cobweb-shrouded racks on the wall con 
tain sheets of parchment; other shelves 
hold writing implements-quills, ink pots, 
sand shakers, and bottles of ink (their con 


tents long since dried to a crumbly black 
residue)* There are also lute strings hang 
ing from pegs, and small boxes that contain 
reeds for oboes and other instruments. 
You can also see a small box with a lock sit 
ting on one of the shelves. 


The cobwebs are home to another two large 
spiders. 

Large spiders (2): AC 8; MV 6" *15"; HD 
1+1; hp 2, 2; 0AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 18; AL 
N; SA poison (+ 2 bonus to saving throw). 

The small locked box contains some semi 
precious stones that Diambeth sometimes 
used to embellish his finest lutes: four azur- 
ites, four malachites, and ten turquoises (10 
g.p* value each), plus six camelians and four 
chalcedonies (50 g.p. value each). The lock on 
the box is more decorative than functional, 
since the box can easily be broken open by 
one stroke of a mace or similar weapon. 

9* Antechamber 


There are several coat hooks on both 
walls. On the floor in one comer is a shape 
less mass that seems to be covered in 
some kind of fur. 


The "shapeless mass" is a cloak trimmed 
with the fur of an owlbear, much the worse for 
its four decades of neglect, and totally worth 
less. It's infected with fleas, however, which 
will migrate to the body of anyone putting the 
cloak on* Flea infestation causes itching and, 
in 25% of cases, red blotches similar to the 
symptoms of the plague. Treat flea infestation 
as a mild parasitic infection of the skin and hair 
(see page 14 of the Dungeon Masters Guide). 


The door to your left is different from the 
others you've seen. Instead of dark oak 
bound with brass, this one is made of a 
light-colored and fine-grained wood- 
perhaps elm. There is no handle: in its 
place is a delicate carving composed of 
symbols and parallel lines. 


Any bard or any PC with musical experience 
will immediately recognize that the carving 
represents a bar from a piece of music. The 
symbols on the parallel lines are notes, form 
ing a musical phrase: FE, G, A, D, A. (This 
is the same phrase that was painted on the 
secret door into room 2.) The door is magi 
cally sealed, and cannot be opened by force or 
by simple spells like dispel magic or knock. 
The PCs will soon realize that the carving is 
the lock to the door. 

Diambeth enjoyed puns, as many of his 
more light-hearted songs illustrate. This lock 















represents one of his favorite plays on words. 
The musical phrase is in the key of D, and D is 
the "key" to the lock. Pressing the symbol 
that represents the note "D" causes the door 
to swing inward. 

A thief might be able to pick the lock, but all 
attempts suffer a -35% penalty because of 
the lock's magical nature. 

(DM note: If the PCs need a clue to figure 
out the puzzle, Cymbdline might be heard to 
be murmuring under his breath t "The key is 
the key t the key is the key.") 

On its other side, the door has a normal han 
dle. Shutting the door resets the lock, 
although it can always be opened easily from 
inside room 10. 


have what you want-Diambeth's notes. 
They can be yours, if you earn them. I pro 
pose a wager" He smiles, for an instant 
appearing as the irresponsible Cymbelline 
of old. " A battle of wits, you might say, of 
legend and lore." And then the moment is 
gone. Authority seems to build around him 
like a nimbus. "Put forward one of your 
number to meet my challenge. The stakes 
are high. If you win, I grant you the knowl 
edge you seek plus a powerful gift of mag 
ic. In balance, if you lose, my sword drinks 
from your challenger's life force, and 1 
destroy these notes. Who takes my chal 
lenge?" 


The necklace is Cymbelline's necklace of mis 
siles, as described in The Mirrors of Fate. 
Close inspection gives the PCs a chance to 
recognize the symbol of Istus and perhaps 
speculate on the nature of what's going on. 

If this adventure is played as part of the 
overall campaign, Cymbelline continues: 


The half-elf bows to you all. "Congratula 
tions. You have comported yourselves 
well. What you seek may be found in Win- 
tershiven in the Theocracy of the Pale-a 
priest/alchemist in that city can help you. 
Your destiny lies there." 

And with that, Cymbelline is suddenly 
gone. 


10. Writing Room 


Even under the ever-present layer of dust, 
this room still looks cozy and comfortable. 
A woven carpet covers the floor, while fad 
ed tapestries showing scenes of forests 
and hunting decorate the walls. A small 
bookcase is packed with leather-bound 
books, and more are piled precariously on 
top. Against the far wall is a roll-top desk of 
intriguing, possibly elvish, design, its fine 
ly worked top closed. A comfortable- 
looking chair stands next to it. 

Even though you're the only ones to 
enter this room in forty years, you still feel 
an inexplicable sense of presence, as 
though Diambeth has just stepped away 
for a while and might soon return. 

As you gaze into the room, there's a cry 
of exaltation from behind you. You turn as 
one. IPs Cymbelline-he holds a flaming 
sword high above his head, and in its harsh 
white light his face looks inhuman in its 
expression of overpowering joy. 

Suddenly you feel torpor wash over you 
like a wave. Your movements-even your 
thoughts-become grindingly slow. 


For the first time, the sword Kabalhas "told" 
Cymbelline about his true nature; thus the 
half-elfs elation (of course, the PCs shouldn't 
know this). He immediately uses KabaFs 
powers to cast a slow spell on the party, with a 
-3 penalty to their saving throws. 


Cymbelline sprints past you, easily evad 
ing your sluggish movements in his rush 
toward Diambeth's desk. He flings open 
the roll-top desk and pulls a sheaf of parch 
ments out of its depths. 

He wheels back to face you. "Hold!" he 
cries, emphasizing the order by pointing 
the dazzling sword at you. He raises the 
sheaf of parchments above his head. "I 


If the PCs decide to attack Cymbelline, he 
fights to the death, using his considerable 
armory of powers to their best effect. If, how 
ever, the PCs decide to put forward a champi 
on (and the DM should hint that this is 
probably the best option): 


Cymbelline smiles. "Noble choice, my 
friends. The challenge begins" He turns 
to the challenger and recites: 

"All in one and one in all, 

Colored star and silken strand. 

Seek me when the mighty fall, 

And when your doom is near at hand. 
Crone am I, and maiden fair, 

Shepherd girl and noble dame. 

Now my nature strip you bare, 

And venture my immortal name" 
Again Cymbelline bolds his sword high 
above his head, its actinic glare almost 
blinding. "By my sword Kabal," he cries, 
"answer now my riddle!" 


The answer to the riddle is, of course, 
"Istus" or "Fate." The name of his sword- 
"KabaT-is a clue. As described in the text 
on Elredd in Oide City Scroll T "kabal" is an 
archaic Baklunish word meaning a form of 
fate: judgment and truth through arms. As 
with the inscription over die gate of the city, 
any bard will recognize the meaning of the 
word. 

If the PC challenger guesses the correct 
answer, Cymbelline immediately removes the 
slow spell from the party: 


Cymbelline smiles. "Well answered, my 
friend. All hail to the victor." And with that 
he re sheathes his sword. With a half-bow, 
he hands the sheaf of parchments to you. 
"The first half of my bargain. And now the 
second." From around his neck he takes 
his elaborate necklace. Respectfully he 
lays it into your hands. 


Cymbelline is not invisible: he's just gone. 
(Istus has called him back to her plane as a 
reward for his services.) 

If this adventure is played independendy, 
Cymbelline says nothing about Wintershiven. 
He simply bows once more to the company 
and vanishes. 

IPs quite possible that, even with the due, 
that the PCs won't guess the correct answer 
to Cymbelline's riddle (and they have only one 
try) . In that case: 


Cymbelline shakes his head dejectedly. 
"So sad, so sad." He points his fiery blade 
at you and says, "The first half of your bar 
gain." 


He touches his blade to the challenger, using 
the sword's energy drain ability to remove 
one level of experience from the unlucky PC. 
Then: 


"And now die second." He holds up the 
sheaf of parchments and brings the flame 
of his sword toward them, "So sad," he 
murmurs again. "Diambeth's last song, 
lost for forty years. And now lost forever. 
Such a waste." 


Unless the PCs intervene, he ignites the 
parchments with the flaming sword and 
throws them down to burn on the ground. 
Wfien they are burned to ashes, Cymbelline 
vanishes forever. 

If at any time the PCs fight Cymbelline and 
kill him, his body vanishes in a flare of white 
(or is it white?) light. His sw T ord is left behind, 
but it's lost most of its powers (as described in 
The Mirrors of Fate), 

Assuming that the PCs save the parch 
ments from destruction-one way or 
another-once Cymbelline is out of the pic 
ture they can examine the contents. Sure 
enough, as Cymbelline claimed at the outset, 
among the parchments are the original notes 


45 
















(¦¦i 



that became Diambeth T s song on the Red 
Death. These contain much information that 
never found its way into the final version. If 
this adventure is played independently, these 
notes contain a herbal cure for the plague, if 
it's played as part of the overall campaign, 
they merely state that the original Red Death 
was transmitted at least partially by air. Isolat 
ing contagious victims with vinegar-soaked 
curtains around them will prevent others from 
becoming infected. 

In addition to these notes, there's also a 
draft of a "new" song by Diambeth, one never 
before seen. This song-entitled "The Fall of 
the Scarlet Brotherhood"-deals with how 
the Brotherhood hierarchy dabbled in demon 
ology, and summoned something that was too 
powerful for them. The demon laid waste to 
their citadel and killed most of their members. 
The only Brethren alive today (so says the 
song) are scattered remnants. They may be 
trying to re-form the Brotherhood, but the 
order's historical enemies are busily stamping 
out the survivors as soon as their existence 
becomes known. (The song is a work of spec^ 
illative fiction, loosely based on unsubstantiat 
ed rumors, but the PCs aren't to know that.) 
Written in Diambeth's hand, this original draft 
of the song is worth up to 2,000 g.p. to the 
right buyer. Any bard in the party, or any PC 
with a knowledge of and appreciation for his 
tory, will realize that this is a significant find 
that must be preserved for posterity. 

The books in and on the bookshelf are of lit 
tle if any value, being social history tomes, 
books of poems, and so forth. In addition to 
the sheaf of parchments, the roll-top desk 
contains scribbled notes and half a page of 
stilted rhymes (the preliminary draft of a 
poem about Elredd). A drawer contains a 
writing set: a quill pen and ink pot. The quill is 
a griffon's feather with a gold nib attached; the 
ink pot is worked silver Together the set is 
worth 100 g.p, In a back comer of the same 
drawer, out of sight and forgotten, is a gold 
ring set with an emerald (350 g.p. value). 

Encounter Tables 

Should the PCs spend enough time wandering 
around Diambeth's Delving to warrant ran 
dom encounters, the DM can use the follow 
ing table (roll d4). 

1 Large spider (1-2) 

2 Huge spider (1) 

3 Rat (3-6) 

4 Giant centipedes (1-4) 


Concluding the Adventure 
Once the matter with Cymbelline and the 
notes is concluded, the PCs may choose to 
leave the cellars the way they entered, or may 
prefer to make their exit through Zymor's 
home (via the stairs in room 6). 

In the latter case, they find the door difficult 
to open. If a total of 25 strength points is 
applied to it (which might be difficult, consid 
ering its position at the top of a flight of stairs), 
it swings outward with a resounding crash, 
(Zymor has no knowledge of this concealed 
door. When he was redecorating the study- 
into which this door opens-he inadvertently 
positioned a tall bookcase directly in front of 
it. Opening the door, of course, topples the 
bookcase.) 

If it T s daytime, there's a 75% chance that 
Zymor is working in the study when the PCs 
open the door and bring the bookcase crash 
ing down (roll for surprise). Zymor always 
keeps his gauntlets of ogre power and battle- 
axe +2 nearby, so-unless he was totally 
surprised-he'll be girded for battle by the 
time the first PC emerges. If it's nighttime- 
or if, during the day, Zymor isn't in the 
study-the dwarf will hear the crash, grab his 
equipment, and rush to the study, arriving in 
1-3 rounds. Such is Zymor's personality that 
he'll attack first and ask questions later (if 
ever) , Zymor is without official heirs, so, if the 
PCs slay him, they may bid on Harper's Hold 
(as described in \b Olde City Scroll) if they 
wish-and if they can afford it. If the PCs 
decide to loot the villa, it's up to the DM to 
determine their haul (keep in mind that Zymor 
is spartan in his tastes, and has little love for 
the finer things in life). 

The disguised followers of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood have been busy while the PCs 
were in the Delving: stirring up the populace, 
playing on their fear of the Red Death. The 
city was plague-free before the strangers (the 
PCs) arrived, the agent provocateurs have 
been telling the Elreddi; now the sickness is 
upon them. The only way to cleanse the town 
is to rid it of the infected strangers. Over a 
hundred townsfolk were listening to the 
Brethren as they made their play in the town 
square, and were partially convinced by their 
rhetoric. One of the Brethren-Ilfs, an elvish 
magic-user/thief-had been issued a scroll of 
mass charm by his superiors, and has used it 
on the crowd. Since the scroll was written by 
a 10th level magic-user, the spell has "con 
vinced" 20 people that every'thing the Breth 
ren have said is true. Twenty total converts is 
enough to turn a crowd into a mob. . . . 


When the PCs leave Harper's Hold-either 
through the concealed passageway into the 
alley, or through the front gate-the mob is 
waiting for them: a hundred or so hard-bitten 
inhabitants of the city, all whipped up into a 
frenzy of fear over the plague. The mob's plan 
is to fall upon the PCs and bum them and all of 
their possessions to stop the spread of the 
disease. 

Because of the size of the crowd, fighting is 
probably out of the question. Unless there's a 
bard or aspiring bard among the PCs, fleeing 
is the best option. A bard, however, can use 
his influence to alter the mood of the mob. ! 
Since mob psychology is inherently so unsta 
ble, the townsfolk are a perfect target for a 
bard's powers, and the mob's saving throw is 
at -2, not including any other adjustments. 
The 20 charmed individuals are immune, how 
ever, and won't be swayed by anything a bard 
can say or do. Ilfs is present also, and he'll do 
his best to convince the mob not to listen to 
reason. PCs observing the crowd's behavior 
have one chance to make a ld20 Wisdom 
Check. If the check is successful, the PC 
notices that an elf Gifs) in the midst of the 
crowd seems to be the ringleader. The PCs 
may then take whatever action they see fit. If 
Ilfs is killed or rendered unconscious, the 
effect of the mass charm ends. 

Ilfs-male elf 2nd level magic-user/8th level 
thief: AC 10; MV 12"; hp 31; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon (dagger); THAC0 19; AL LN. Spells 
carried: magic missile (x2). 

Mob member, typical-zero-level common 
er: AC 10; MV 12"; hp 4; #AT 1; Dmg by 
w r eapon (various weapons, mostly clubs and 
daggers); THAC0 20; AL CN. 

The Judgment of Fate 

As far as Istus is concerned, to succeed in the 
test the PCs must bring Diambeth's notes- 
including the lost song-out of the cellars and 
mustn't let the townsfolk bum them. Whether 
the notes and song are acquired by answering 
the riddle or killing Cymbelline is incidental. 

If the PCs fail to save the notes, all bards in 
Grey hawk lose a point of constitution. This 
loss occurs at the instant that the notes are 
destroyed, or when the PCs irrevocably 
decide to abandon the notes. 


46 











Wintershiven 

As the rot of cultural and social decay started 
to penetrate the Great Kingdom* many of the 
more devout and outspoken followers of the 
god Pholtus withdrew from the increasingly 
corrupt core of the land* Some of these set- 
tied between the Rakers mountain range and 
the Yol River. Around 356 CY, when Nyrond 
declared its independence from the Great 
Kingdom, so did these religious refugees. 
Thus was the Theocracy of the Pale formed. 
Its original capital was called Wintershiven, 
but it was located a good twenty leagues south 
of the city that now bears that name* When 
the troops of Nyrond moved in and subjugated 
the Pale* the entire capital was destroyed in a 
tragic fire. (Some still claim that the invaders 
razed the city to the ground. Calmer heads 
disagree* citing nothing more than careless 
ness: apparently some drunken Nyrondese 
soldiers set fire to a bam* and the fire spread 
to destroy the city.) After the Treaty of Rel 
Mord* the Nyrondese troops withdrew and 
left the Pale to its independence (the date is 
still celebrated as a national festival, "The 
Emancipation")* A new capital was built and 
was graced with the name of the old. 

The people of the Pale had chafed under the 
subjugation by the "pagan" Nyrondese (par 
ticularly since many of the occupying soldiers 
were followers of St. Cuthbert)* but their suf 
fering had strengthened their faith. While 
before they had been devout followers of 
Pholtus* now that they had their freedom they 
became nothing if not wildly zealous in their 
belief. They were determined that nothing 
would ever oppress them again . . . and noth 
ing is more tenacious than zealots following an 
inflexible god. In addition to strengthening 
their faith* the period of occupation had also 
pushed the ethos of the Pale from lawful good 
to a very dogmatic lawful neutral. (Followers 
of Pholtus in other parts of the world have 
retained their generally good alignment, and 
many of them look on the Theocracy as some 
what of a distortion of their faith.) 

From its inception* the Pale had been ruled 
by clerical leaders-in effect, the land's 
nobility-with one of their number being 
selected as "the Theocrat" the supreme 
leader for his lifetime. After the Emancipa 
tion, matters formalized further. The clerical 
leaders formed a true government, with juris 
diction over all aspects of life in the land. The 
Theocrat became not just supreme cleric but 
unquestioned ruler of the Pale. Within ten 
years of the Emancipation, government of the 
Pale had taken on the form it would maintain 
for two centuries. 

While the Theocrat is presented to the pop 
ulace as being "the Chosen of Pholtus" 


selected directly by the god himself, there is 
an extensive political infrastructure to make 
sure that Pholtus selects the right candidate. 
The most influential clerics in the land sit on 
the Council of the Nine; seats on the council 
are of lifelong duration, and the other mem 
bers select a replacement for Councilors who 
die in office or who ascend to the Throne of 
the Sun (that is* to the office of Theocrat)* 
The main duty of the Council is to support the 
Theocrat in his governance and-unofficially, 
at least-act as his advisors (unofficially 
because the Chosen of Pholtus shouldn't need 
human advisors). They also select the next 
Theocrat when His Worshipful Mercy dies: in 
closed-door sessions that can last days-and 
that can get rather nasty* if rumors are to be 
believed-the Councilors appoint one of their 
numbers to take the Throne of the Sun* The 
chosen candidate is then hailed by the entire 
Council as Theocrat. (Little is known outside 
the Basilica about the political maneuvering 
that goes on. While some of the residents are 
cynical (quietly so if they want to keep their 
heads)* most blithely accept that the Council 
is simply the tool Pholtus uses to make his will 
known . * * and perhaps they're right. 

Since all clerics in the Pale are responsible 
to it* the Council holds great power in the 
land. It isn't the only authority* however. 
Some seventy years after the Emancipation* a 
splinter group of clerics rebelled against the 
central rule of Wintershiven. Their claim was 
that a person's relationship with Pholtus was a 
personal thing* and shouldn't be dictated 
through political expediency* This apostasy 
was quickly put down by an army division led 
by three of the Council. The hierarchy learned 
its lesson: sometimes spiritual force must be 
augmented by physical force. 

The result was the founding of the Church 
Militant* a paramilitary body of warrior- 
priests. While the officers of the Church Mili 
tant are typically human clerics of high level, 
many of the troops are haif-elven cleric/ 
fighters. The commander-in-chief of the 
Church Militant holds the rank of Priest- 
Commander* and reports directly to the Theo 
crat. While the Church Militant and the Coun 
cil (and thus the ecclesiastical hierarchy) are 
both under the authority of the Theocrat* they 
should theoretically work shoulder to shoul 
der with no friction. There is, however* often 
tension and sometimes out-and-out rivalry 
between the two sides of government. 

In the regular church, clerical rank names 
are used (acolyte, priest* curate* etc*). As if 
to set itself apart* the Church Militant uses 
army rankings (general* captain, etc.) coupled 
with clerical rankings. Thus, officers of the 
Church Militant are termed Father-General, 
Acolyte-Corporal* etc. The rank-and-file 
troops are known as Legates. 


The Church Militant is responsible for 
"ensuring purity of doctrine." In the Pale* 
there are two sets of laws and two codes of 
justice: civil and ecclesiastical. Civil justice 
deals with such matters as theft* assault, and 
other purely criminal matters. Ecclesiastical 
justice* on the other hand* concerns itself with 
blasphemy, desecration, and other similar 
sorts of crimes against the Church. The 
Church Militant is solely responsible for the 
administration of ecclesiastical justice. With 
its own courthouses and jails* it's well 
equipped to do so* 

There are several differences between civil 
and ecclesiastical justice. The major one is 
that ecclesiastical justice is considerably 
harsher, and dispenses with such legal nice 
ties as habeas corpus and the concept of 
"innocent until proven guilty." In an ecclesias 
tical court-"under the Question"-the cen 
tral tenet is "sinful until proven innocent." 
Judgments handed down by ecclesiastical 
court range from flogging (for transacting 
business on a holy day) through incarceration, 
to death (for blatant heresy). In order to dis 
pense its form of justice, the Church Militant 
constantly patrols Wintershiven (and other 
cities in the Pale). A typical patrol consists of 
eight half-elven legates led by a priest- 
sergeant. 

Legate-half-elven cleric/fighter of lst/2nd 
level: AC 4 (banded mail); MV 9"; HD 2; hp 
16; #AT 1; Dmg 2-7 (footman's flail or foot 
man's mace); THACO 20; AL LN* Spell: vari 
able* but usually light or command . 

Priest-sergeant-half-elven cleric/fighter of 
4thf3rd level: AC 4 (banded mail); MV 9 r> ; HD 
4; hp 30; #AT 1; Dmg 2-7 (footman's flail or 
footman's mace); THACO 18; AL LN. Spells: 
light usually accompanied by command* cure 
light wounds * hold person * and spiritual ham 
mer. 

In addition to meting out justice* the Church 
Militant is responsible for guarding the 
church's properties (particularly the central 
Basilica) and provides bodyguards for the 
Council and the Theocrat himself. Members 
of the Church Militant are adept at all combat 
skills* including leading troops on the field of 
battle* They are "the few, the proud," and are 
very difficult to deal with. The current Priest- 
Commander is a hard-bitten human deric/ 
fighter (10th level in each class) named Reifus 
and often referred to as "the Paganhammer," 
a nickname he favors. 

Although most of the populace accepts the 
necessity for the Church Militant, the force's 
arrogant behavior tends to grate a little . Since 
many of the legates are half-elves* most riti- 
zens of Wintershiven feel an antipathy to that 
race. Half-elves visiting the city often have 
rather a bad time of it, because the citizenry 
takes out on them its frustration at the Church 


47 






WINTERSHIVEN 


Militant. 

The least expensive accommodations are in 
the establishment located farthest from the 
Citadel-The Lightbringer Inn, on the out 
skirts of town to the northeast. The Rayed 
Sun Inn, in the southeast "suburbs," is a bit 
more expensive (average prices) and better 
kept. The Citadel Tavern-which, despite its 


name, lies just outside Evengate-is a high- 
priced place that's mostly frequented by digni 
taries, well-to-do merchants, and law- 
enforcement officials. Pilgrims 1 Rest 
Rooming House, a short distance north of 
Noon Gate, is low-priced but clean and (rela 
tively) quiet-just the sort of place that 
devout pilgrims would appreciate. 


There are two other significant organiza 
tions in Wintershiven, both "lay" forces con 
sisting of nonclerical personnel These are the 
City Watch and the Prelatal Army. The City 
Watch is responsible for policing the city 
streets, guarding the walls, enforcing civil jus 
tice, and basically keeping the peace. In all 
things-although theoretically their authori- 


48 






ties are equal-the City Watch always cedes 
jurisdiction to the Church Militant when the 
latter group wants it. City Watch patrols usu 
ally consist of five privates and a noncommis 
sioned officer. 

City Hatch private-1st level fighter: AC 6 
(ring mail and shield); MV 9"; HD 1; hp 7; 
#AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 (pole arm) or 1-6/1-6 
(shortbow) or 1-6 (shortsword); THACQ 20; 
AL LN. Each watchman will be outfitted with 
either a pole arm or a shortbow {50% chance 
of each); all privates carry shortswords as 
secondary weapons. 

Noncommissioned officer-4 th level fight 
er: AC 6 (ring mail and shield); MV 9"; HD 4; 
hp 28; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8 (broadsword) or 1-4 
(dagger); THACO 18; AL LN. 

Most of the Preiatal Army is constantly in 
the field, combatting the barbarian, humanoid, 
and bandit raiders that plague the Pale; how 
ever, soldiers on leave or in the capital for 
training aren't an uncommon sight on the 
streets. Preiatal troops are in general very 
tough (lst-3rd level fighters with maximum or 
near-maximum hit points) and well trained. 

The City Watch reports to the Council; the 
army's chain of command (theoretically) 
bypasses the Council entirely to report to the 
Theocrat, who is their commander-in-chief. 
This table of organization is complicated, how 
ever, by the fact that the higher-ranking offi- 
cers of both the City Watch and the Preiatal 
Army are drawn from the Church Militant. 

Most citizens of Wintershiven are unshak- 
ably devout. . * or pretend to be, to avoid the 
attention of the Church Militant. (This organi 
zation is famous for its late-night knock on the 
door, leading to a " here tic" facing the Ques 
tion in some windowless ecclesiastical court 
room, and being put to death before the sun 
rises the next morning.) The most common 
colors for clothing are white, silver, and gold 
(the colors of Pholtus), and people in their 
right mind don't make jokes about religion. 
Intolerance of other religions isn't strictly offi 
cial policy, but it's fairly pervasive and tacitly 
accepted. Temples to other gods aren't per 
mitted, of course; visiting clerics of other 
faiths are treated with very cold respect (but 
only as long as they refrain from preaching 
their "pagan creeds"); nonclerics who are 
known to be of different faiths are discrimi 
nated against, and sometimes beaten up; any 
one who openly professes another faith is 
almost certain to attract the unwelcome atten 


tion of the Church Militant. 

Like many cities, Wintershiven has a cen 
tral walled area-the Citadel-and an outside 
sprawl of poorer dwellings and businesses. 
The Citadel contains the governing power of 
the city, and has at its core the main temple, 
the Basilica. There are only three gates to the 
Citadel-Dawn Gate, Noon Gate, and 
Evengate. Dawn Gate and Evengate are so 
aligned that, on the summer solstice, the first 
and last rays of the sun shine directly in 
through the respective gates. This day is a 
festival to Pholtus, and on this day the gates 
are left open. The Citadel is so laid out that 
the light shines directly down long, wide 
streets and paints the central temple with 
golden illumination, (It's not a good idea to do 
anything that will block this light.) Although 
the veneration of Pholtus isn't officially a sun- 
worshiping sect, of course the sun is an 
important symbol (as an example of the Blind 
ing Light). There are some portions of the 
population, however, whose doctrine isn't 
exactly pure, and they put much more stock in 
the sun-revering side of the religion. (For 
these people, the solstices, the equinoxes, 
and such celestial events as solar eclipses are 
high holy days, to be marked by drunken 
revelry-out of sight of the Church Militant, 
of course.) 

People wanting to enter the Citadel must 
pass through a small chapel-a "Pilgrims' 
Chapel"; there's one at each gate-and pay 
homage to Pholtus. (Under the watchful eye 
of armed Church Militant guards, it's probably 
advisable to take this quite seriously.) Once 
they've done so, they are given red "pilgrim's 
badges" that must be worn openly while with 
in the city. Residents of Wintershiven wear 
white "citizen's badges " which exempt them 
from having to go through the chapel. Anyone 
wishing a pilgrim's badge must pay a deposit 
of 3 gold pieces, to be reimbursed when the 
badge is surrendered. No one without one 
kind of badge or the other is let into the Cita 
del. Even in the sprawling "suburbs," Church 
Militant patrols will often hassle people not 
wearing a badge, saying something like, "You 
should go and worship, just as a sign of 
respect, even if you don't plan on entering the 
Citadel." 

The Basilica is a huge and rather oppressive 
building constructed of dark basalt. It's 
crowned by a high spire atop which is a huge 
symbol of the rayed sun. The symbol is highly 


polished gold, with a large faceted gem 
mounted in the center. It catches the sun well, 
gleaming and flashing by day. By night, it 
shines with continual light. The entire symbol 
is worth 7,500 g.p. and weighs close to 250 
pounds; the centra) gem is a diamond worth 
5,000 g.p. Despite its size, the gem is flawed; 
thus its relatively meager value (for a gem as 
big as a man's head, that is). Although it may 
look unguarded, the symbol is protected by 
magic. The symbol itself and the entire spire 
are dweomered with a massive variant of 
shocking grasp, cast at the 25th level of abili 
ty, Anyone touching the spire or the symbol 
receives 10-60 points of electrical damage. 
The dweomer can deliver this charge four 
times before becoming inert. 

The overall alignment of the city is unargua- 
bly lawful neutral. For encounters within the 
city, use the City/Town Encounters Matrix on 
page 191 of the Dungeon Masters Guide . The 
DM should keep in mind the characteristics of 
the city, and should feel free to modify these 
encounters to better suit the nature of Win 
tershiven (for example, encounters with the 
city guard become encounters with Church 
Militant patrols). 

Map Key 

1. Basilica 

2. Preiatal Palace 

3. Council Chambers 

4. Church Militant headquarters 

5. Hall of Spiritual Justice (Church 

Militant jail) 

6. Administration complex 

7. Evengate 

8. Dawn Gate 

9. Noon Gate 

10. Pilgrims' Chapels 

11. Cemetery 

12. Hall of Earthly Justice (City W'atch jail) 

13. City Watch Guardhouse 

14. Army barracks 

15. Disused slaughterhouse (site of 

secret temple to evil deity) 

16. Temples/chapels to Pholtus 

17. The Rayed Sun Inn 

18. The Lightbringer Inn 

19. The Citadel Tavern 

20. Farmers market 

21. Jay Swordwright (smithy/weaponsmith) 

22. Pilgrims' Rest Rooming House 


49 








SERVICE FOR THE DEAD 


This adventure is designed for four to six 
characters of 4th to 6th level At least one 
member of the party should be a cleric. 

DM's Introduction 

When the PCs reach Wintershiven, the dis 
ease has preceded them by perhaps a week. 
The toll of people suffering from the sickness 
has started to grow, as has the fear. Even 
though the reaction in Wintershiven is as 
strong as anywhere else the PCs have gone, 
here it's taken a different form* There are no 
hawkers on the street comers selling amulets 
to ward off infection, no smooth-talking herb 
alists in the squares peddling their quack nos 
trums. Instead of displaying such outward 
expressions of fear, Wintershiven is reacting 
to the plague by turning in on itself. There are 
fewer people on the streets than normal, and 
they almost always seem to be in a hurry. 
Many of them dart nervous looks over their 
shoulders as they walk or ride, as though 
they're worried about something other than 
disease. . * * 

There is more than the plague to worry 
about. The people of Wintershiven constantly 
have religion on their minds (one of the conse 
quences of living in a theocracy), so it only 
makes sense that, when danger appears, they 
look for cause, relief and solace there. Some 
citizens-mainly lay folk, plus several clerics 
of minor rank-have decided that the plague is 
a punishment meted out on the Pale by 
Pholtus for some trespass or other. Perhaps 
the Church has strayed from the true doc 
trine, the One Way, and this is the god's warn 
ing to get things back on track. Even in a 
regimented society, there are wild-eyed zeal 
ots and mad prophets. And now they're all 
coming out of the woodwork, preaching their 
own pet paths to salvation from the plague. 

This all adds up to a risky situation for a the 
ocratic government. Religious dissent- 
particularly when it includes even a few 
low-level members of the clerical hierarchy- 
strikes at both its spiritual and political power, 
and so must be quelled as quicldy as possible. 
With this in mind, the Church Militant has 
been charged with "stilling the clamor of the 
heretics and of the misguided.'" Anyone heard 
denouncing the government's handling of the 
plague, anyone preaching a different 
doctrine-sometimes even anyone standing 
too close to someone doing either of these 
things-is at serious risk of being arrested on 
the spot by the Church Militant. (It's no won 
der the populace is acting rather paranoid.) 

To coincide with the Church Militants 
"sweep," all sermons in all churches across 
the city echo one theme: the plague is a warn 
ing from Pholtus, a warning to stamp out the 
subversive element that's been undermining 
the Church's dedication to the One Way. Help 


the Church Militant cleanse the land before 
Pholtus does something really unpleasant. 

Taken together, these events make it cer 
tain that Wintershiven will be even less a 
haven of religious tolerance than usual. 

An interesting aside is that, before the out 
break of the disease, there was a minor 
"power struggle" underway between the 
Church Militant and the Council. To outsiders 
it might appear a small thing, a squabble over 
jurisdictions, but to the parties involved it r s 
vitally important. When the disease broke out 
and the fringe reaction to it became disturb 
ing, the members of the Council were in a bad 
position: they could either leave the reaction 
unchallenged, or hand more power to their 
rivals, the Church Militant. Despite grave 
misgivings, the Council had to go along with 
the Theocrat and grant the Church Militant 
unprecedented freedoms in dealing with mat 
ters. 

Note on encounters: For encounters within 
the city, use the City/Town Encounters 
Matrix on page 191 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide , If a dice roll indicates a thief, assassin 
or monk, there's a 90% chance that this rep 
resents one of the minions of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood, The Brethren are still following 
the PCs closely. Although they're now willing 
to act indirectly against "the foe" (as will be 
explained later), they haven't yet reached the 
point of direct action. As before, the Brethren 
will die-even take their own lives-before 
divulging their nature or mission. If the table 
indicates an encounter with the city guard, 
this is actually an encounter with a Church 
Militant patrol. 

The Official Greeting 
The PCs arrive on the outskirts of the city at 
nightfall. The streets are almost deserted, as 
if a partial curfew were in effect. 

When Cymbelline instructed the PCs to 
seek out "a priest/alchemist" in Win 
tershiven, he gave them no useful information 
on how to find that worthy. They'll have to ask 
someone for help . , . difficult since there's 
hardly anyone around. 


Up ahead is an inn. The door's shut, but 
firelight shines through the windows, 
while voices and the comfortable smell of 
ale drift out into the night air. As you 
approach the inn, however, there's a sharp 
order from behind you: "Hold!" 

You turn as one to see nine armed men 
approaching you. 


This is a Church Militant patrol, consisting of 
eight legates and one priest-sergeant. The 
patrol's behavior depends on the PCs' 
appearance. 


C/u/rdi Militant legates- cleric/fighters of 
lst/2ndlevel (8): AC 4 (banded mail); MV 9"; 
HD 2; hp 16 each; #AT 1; Dmg 2-7 (footman's 
mace); THACO 20; AL LN, Spells: light (leg 
ates 1-5) or command (legates 6-8). 

Priest-sergeant-cleric/Sghter of 4th/3rd 
level: AC 4 (banded mail); MV 9"; HD 4; hp 
30; HAT 1; Dmg 2-7 (flail); THACO 18; AL 
LN. Spells: light , command, cure light 
wounds , hold person, spiritual hammer. 

If one or more of the PCs is obviously a cler 
ic (wearing vestments, or openly displaying a 
holy symbol other than the rayed sun): 


The leader of the patrol turns to your cleric 
with a scowl. "And what business do you 
have with a devout city? 11 he snarls. 
"Come to spread your lies?" He turns to 
the rest of you. "If you look for the hospi 
tality of Wintershiven, 1 suggest you find 
another traveling companion" 


Unless the PCs reply or do something else to 
stop him, the priest-sergeant leads his squad 
away . . * somewhat disappointed. He's bored 
and cranky, and there's nothing he'd like more 
than a good scrap, after which the Church Mil 
itant can "put the Question 1 ' (put on trial) any 
surviving "heretics." Although the patrol is 
under orders to bring in offenders alive, they 
are free to kill to save their own lives. 

If there are no obvious clerics among the 
PCs, the priest-sergeant finds some other 
excuse to hassle them- perhaps grilling them 
about their business in Wintershiven, or why 
they're not wearing pilgrim's badges (a good 
topic for misunderstanding, particularly if the 
PCs don't know what pilgrim's badges are). If 
he can't get a rise out of them, he leads his 
troops off. 

Arlina 

When the PCs enter the inn-assuming they 
escape arrest-they find it almost deserted. A 
handful of men dressed as laborers (but all 
with at least a flash of white somewhere on 
their persons) sit at the bar. As the PCs step 
inside, the laborers silently look them over, 
then pointedly turn away, returning to their 
drinks. Apart from the staff, there's only one 
other person in the barroom. 

Sitting alone at a table is a young woman 
dressed in dark gray, with golden blonde hair 
falling down her back. This is Arlina (see The 
Mirrors of Fate). She watches the PCs steadi 
ly, showing no inclination to ignore them as did 
the men at the bar. If they don't approach her 
on their own initiative, she beckons them over 
toward her. Throughout her conversation 
with the PCs, she keeps a fold of her robe 
drawn across her face, covering her mouth. 

As the PCs join her, she indicates the men 


50 






at the bar* "Welcome to Wintershiven " she 
says with an ironic smile. "1 see you've expe 
rienced the hospitality of the city" 

She introduces herself to the PCs as a cleric 
of Istus-a High Priestess, in fact. She's in 
town on the instructions of her church, she 
confides, to perform an important duty. But 
she greatly fears she won't be able to do so. 

Several months ago, a cleric of Istus was 
visiting Wintershiven alone, and died a violent 
death through the overzealous actions of the 
Church Militant. The people involved were 
disciplined for overstepping the bounds of 
their authority. But the cleric was dead, so 
thoroughly so that resurrect/em or the equiva 
lent was impossible, even if the members of 
the Theocracy 's Church would consider per 
forming the act for a cleric of another faith- 
which they wouldn't. The cleric was buried in 
the major state cemetery with a reasonable 
display of respect* But there was something 
the officiating clerics missed through lack of 
knowledge. 

The cleric was a messenger, and all impor 
tant messengers of Istus bear a magical 
device-the Amulet of the Spirit- that pro 
tects them from magics that directly attack 
the soul or spirit (trap the sou/, magic yar, the 
attack of a ghost, possession, and so forth). 
Anyone wearing the amu/e t is immune to such 
effects* This protection has an interesting 
side effect, however: if the person dies while 
wearing the amulet , his spirit can't progress 
to the Outer Plane awaiting it: the spirit 
remains trapped in the decaying body* (This 
doesn't mean the spirit can animate the body 
in any way, nor is the resulting entity consid 
ered an undead creature, it just means that 
the person's destiny is "on hold") 

Thus, the appropriate funeral service for 
anyone bearing an amulet includes removing 
the amti/ef and casting three simple spells 
over the body: bless, protection from evil, 
and chant. Then the soul can move on* Unfor 
tunately, the clerics presiding at the funeral 
didn't know this, and the messenger was 
entombed still wearing the amulet 

The church of Istus found this out, and 
Arlina (as the messenger's friend) has been 
sent to do the kindness of freeing his soul. 
(Even though followers of Istus may seem 
cynical, they're great believers that a per 
son's fate-and particularly that of his soul's 
progression-shouldn't be interrupted for 
anything.) 

DM note: Most of what Arlina relates to the 
PCs is true* The exception is that the church 
of Istus actually doesn't know of the messen 
ger's fate. The releasing of the messenger's 
spirit is something the goddess herself wishes 
to do for a faithful follower, and represents the 
Test of the Clerics. 

Performing this kindness for a friend would 


prove no trouble for Arlina, she says * * * 
except for the involvement of the Church Mili 
tant. 

Realizing that she needed the approval of 
the Church, Arlina approached the Council. 
The Amulet of the Spirit is an object of great 
importance to the hierarchy of Istus, so she 
couldn't tell the Council her true motives (she 
feared the clerics of Pholtus would take the 
amulet for themselves). Instead-even 
though it made for a weakened case-she 
claimed simply that the dead cleric had been 
buried without the correct rituals, and that 
she wanted to right matters, albeit belatedly. 
The Council saw no reason to deny her peti 
tion . * . but Reifus ("the Paganhammer"), 
Priest-Commander of the Church Militant, 
did. Perhaps he perceived that Arlina was hid 
ing something; perhaps he just saw this as a 
chance for another power play against the 
Council. In any case, Reifus used his emer 
gency authority to overrule the Council- 
claiming that granting a "heretic priestess's" 
petition would weaken the Theocracy's posi 
tion just when it had to be strong-and denied 
her request* She tried to appeal to a higher 
authority, but she was refused an audience 
with His Worshipful Mercy, 

With no official alternatives remaining, she 
started considering some unofficial ones* The 
cemetery in which the messenger was buried 
is the only public burial ground inside the Cita 
del (a surprising evidence of respect)* Though 
there are people coming and going throughout 
the day-usually to visit and leave offerings on 
the graves of loved ones-at night the only 
people present are two Church Militant leg 
ates standing as an honor guard at the single 
gate. It should be fairly easy, Arlina reasoned, 
to "infiltrate" the cemetery at night and do 
what had to be done. 

But then she realized that she was being fol 
lowed. Ever since her audience with the 
Council, members of the Church Militant have 
been dogging her steps, never letting her out 
of their sight. The only conclusion she can 
draw is that somehow Reifus guessed that 
she'd take matters into her own hands, and 
that it would be worth his while to find out 
what she plans to do* 

Whatever his reasoning, the Church Mili 
tant's surveillance has put her in a bad posi 
tion* With a "watchdog" patrol always on her 
heels-they're outside the inn now, she tells 
the PCs-she can't very well break into the 
cemetery. On the other hand, she can't in all 
conscience leave matters where they stand. 

She tells the PCs a further reason why she 
can't handle the task herself: since her audi 
ence with the Council she has contracted the 
disease, and is very weak; she is keeping her 
mouth and nose covered to lessen the chance 
of infecting the PCs* She's afraid if she does 


get into the cemetery-perhaps after having 
to overcome resistance from the patrol-she 
might collapse or faint, and fail through physi 
cal weakness. 

Would the PCs consider helping her out? 
Wfculd they perform the necessary service for 
the dead priest? 

DM note: Depending on the personalities of 
your players, they might suggest just ridding 
Arlina of her escort, either temporarily or 
permanently* Arlina won't go along with this* 
Killing or incapacitating the patrol is unaccept 
able to her neutral ethos. Also, anything like 
that would stir up trouble and attract further 
attention to her, which she'd like to avoid* 

Arlina focuses on the deric(s) in the party 
as she tries to convince the PCs, concentrat 
ing on the necessity of letting a soul fulfill its 
destiny and move on to the plane awaiting it. 
In addition to the knowledge that they're 
doing a good act, there's a further reward: 
they're free to make use of any information in 
the message the priest was carrying* This 
message was concealed magically (in fact, it 
had been rendered invisible) and was probably 
buried with the priest's body. Arlina believes 
the message contains, among other things, 
information that might halt the spread of the 
disease* 

If she's still unable to convince the PCs to 
take on the mission, she offers to give them, 
as payment, her golden spindle holy symbol 
(value 250 g*p,), She realizes that isn't much, 
but it's all she has; also, it should show the 
PCs how much mission this means to her. 

If no PC cleric agrees to help Arlina, the 
Test of the Clerics is over before it's begun, 
and the PCs have failed* All clerics in the Fia- 
naess lose 1 point of constitution at the instant 
it becomes clear the PCs won't change their 
minds. 

If the PCs agree to aid Arlina, she describes 
the location of the cemetery* 


"The messenger-my friend-rests in a 
mausoleum in the far northwest comer of 
the cemetery," she tells you. "Its entrance 
has wrought-iron gates, and there are two 
carriage lamps, one on each side of the 
door. You should have no difficulty recog 
nizing it. My friend is interred within. His 
name is Warm." She looks earnestly into 
your eyes. "Free his soul," she says qui 
etly* 


Arlina reminds the PCs that "her" patrol is 
outside. She recommends that they make all 
reasonable efforts to divorce themselves from 
her: in particular, stay in the inn until well after 
she's left and don't meet with her again until 
after the mission's complete* She also recom 
mends that the PCs take a day to examine and 


51 







explore the city and the environs of the ceme 
tery before committing themselves to one 
particular plan; why don't they stay in this inn 
tonight and reconnoiter tomorrow? In any 
case, she'll spend each subsequent evening in 
the inn in which they're currently sitting (so 
they know where to stay away from hereaf 
ter). When they've completed their task, they 
should meet her at this place on the following 
evening to give her Warin's amulet. 

With this she leaves, slowly and with some 
difficulty. If any PCs watch her depart, they 
see a patrol of eight legates and a priest- 
sergeant emerge out of an alley and quite 
openly follow her. 

Troubles . * * 

There are several subplots that will make 
matters more interesting (and difficult) for the 
PCs. These can be sprung on the PCs when 
ever one seems appropriate (or should things 
start to get a little dull). These chains of 
events should, however, all have at least 
begun to occur by the time the PCs are ready 
to stage their raid on the cemetery. 


While traveling through the city, the PCs 
bump into (quite literally) a teen-aged girl. 
Her name is Shirk and she's an attractive- 
and very naive-16-year-old with thick, curly 
red hair and a head full of romantic dreams. 

Shirl-zero-level commoner: AC 10; MV 
12"; 3 hp; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon (almost 
never armed); THACO 20; AL LG. 

Shirl has been shopping, and she's carrying 
an armload of packages. Rounding a comer, 
she collides with the PCs, dropping her pack 
ages. As she picks them up, her gaze falls on 
the face of the male PC with the highest cha 
risma score .. . and her eyes light up. (If there 
are several male PCs with the same charisma, 
Shirks preference is based on race: human, 
then half-elf, then elf. It's unlikely that a mem 
ber of any other race would prove to have the 
most charisma.) 

To put it bluntly, Shirl is smitten-a raging 
case of puppy love. She's too shy to really talk 
to the object of her affection, so she's limited 
to following him around, mooning over him. 
Having a romantic teen-ager tagging along 
after him like a puppy will at first just be an 


embarrassment for the chosen PC (or a temp 
tation, depending on his personality), but will 
soon become something more. 

The problem is that Shirks father, Collus, is 
a Father-General m the Church Militant, a 
warrior who underwent some clerical training 
before becoming a fighter, and quite a tough 
customer. Of course it's totally unacceptable 
for any devo ut citizen of Winters hiven-and 
totally incomprehensible for the daughter of 
an officer-to consider any form of social or 
personal contact with a heretic. If Collus were 
ever to see the PC dallying with his daughter, 
all hell would break loose. 

And, of course, that's what he does see. If 
the chosen PC decides to speak to Shirl at any 
time after the end of their initial encounter- 
even if only to tell her to go away-Collus is on 
the scene. (If the chosen PC isn't going to 
speak to Shirl, she should eventually get up 
enough nerve to initiate the conversation. 
When she does, Collus is within earshot.) 



52 



















"You!" a voice roars from behind you. The 
girl flinches and turns pale as she hears it. 
"Get away from my daughter!" 

Storming toward you is a very large man 
wearing the uniform of the Church Mili 
tant. Everything about him is large: large 
voice, large shoulders, large fists, large 
sword at his belt, large red mustache. He 
interposes himself between you and the 
cowering girl. 

"You strangers!" he roars, and the word 
is a curse. "Get away from here, corrupt 
ing followers of the One Way. And you!!" 
He points a quivering finger at the man 
who was talking to the girl. "If you ever 
come within a dagger-cast of my daughter 
again, you're dead, hear me? Dead. And 
then I'll put what's left to the Question, 
Now get out of here " 

The girl yelps in pain as the man grabs 
her by the shoulder and drags her away. 


Collus-cleric/fighter of 2ndf8th level: AC 4 
(banded mail); MV 9"; HD 8; hp 54; MX 3/2; 
Dmg2-8 (longsword) or 1-4 (dagger); THACG 
14; AL LN, Spells: light, command , 

Collus is quite serious about his threat: if he 
catches the chosen PC "dallying" with his 
daughter, he'll do his best to cut the PC down 
no matter where he is. (Shir! will confirm the 
truth of her father's intentions if she's ever 
asked,) 

This doesn't stop Shirl, of course. As soon 
as she can get away from her father, she 
returns and continues to follow her beloved. 
She's a little more circumspect about it at 
first, but she soon forgets her caution. 

Shirl-or more correctly, her father- 
re presents a very real risk to the PCs. 
Whether this risk ever materializes should 
depend on the chosen PCs actions. If he 
makes any move to take advantage of the 
naive Shirl, then Collus should arrive on the 
scene just in time to see. If, however, the PCs 
ignore her or try to "let her down easy," then 
Collus might not put in a second appearance. 
One final concern: if Shirl f s "new friend" tries 
to get rid of her and isn't gentle about it, she 
might go to her father in a fit of pique and tell 
some outrageous lies. (Of course she'd feel 
terribly guilty about this later, but maybe not 
in time to save her love from her father's 
wrath). 

The emissaries of the Scarlet Brotherhood 
haven't been idle, and continue to follow the 
PCs, Although they're becoming even more 
sure that the party represents "the foe," the 
Brethren are still willing to take only indirect 
action against the PCs, Like in Elredd 
("Diambeth's Delving," Adventure #4), they 
prefer to let others do the dirty work for 


them. This time, the unwitting tool is the 
Church Militant. 

There are several Brethren who've lived in 
Wintershiven long enough to be accepted as 
faithful citizens. One of these has gone to the 
Church Militant guardhouse with a story. He 
claimed that he heard a group of heretics talk 
ing, and those heretics were discussing some 
sacrilegious act they were going to perform. 
The strangers didn't mention exactly what 
this sacrilegious act was, but it sounded like 
they were planning to desecrate a temple or 
something. When asked what the heretics 
looked like, the citizen gave a description of 
the PCs. (The Brethren know nothing about 
the PCs' plans; they have just figured, cor 
rectly, that a story like this would get the 
attention of the Church Militant. With patrols 
on their heels, they figured the PCs would 
eventually transgress some law and be taken 
out of the picture.) 

Although this tale isn't enough cause to 
arrest the PCs-even for the Church 
Militant-it is enough to make them keep an 
eye on the strangers. The upshot is that 
Church Militant patrols will start to follow the 
PCs the same way they've been following 
Arlina. Although these patrols may some 
times try to be as inconspicuous as possible, 
it's difficult to hide nine armed men. Each PC 
has a percentage chance equal to his or her 
intelligence score times three (rolled on an 
hourly basis whenever they're abroad in the 
city) to realize that they're being followed. 
Thus, if aU party members fail one of the hour 
ly checks, it will seem as though the soldiers 
have given up or that the party has lost its tail; 
in fact, the patrol will be able to observe the 
PCs for the next hour without the characters' 
knowledge. If they don't realize they're being 
tailed, or if they don't do a sufficiently good 
job of actually losing the pursuit, the PCs 
might find a patrol barring their way into the 
cemetery, or waiting for them as they try to 
leave. 

The Brethren will watch to see if their sub 
terfuge succeeds, but they won't get actively 
involved. 

The Followers of Istus 
As if matters weren't complex enough, there 
are some other visitors in town: followers of 
Istus. Not clerics, they're simply pilgrims, 
true believers following the route of a famed 
missionary-priest of Istus who lived a century 
ago. There are three men (Ardens, Beron, 
and Redulus) and three women (Crixa, Fallor, 
and Mitra) in the group. 

Pilgrims-zero-level commoners (6): AC 
10; MV 12"; hp 3 each; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(staff); THACO 20; AL N. 

All the pilgrims wear gray (the color of 
Istus) and carry walking staves. Most are 


between the ages of 30 and 50, and are quiet 
and calm of demeanor. Ardens, however, is 
different. He's old (65 at least), thin, and bald 
ing, with piercing blue eyes. While the others 
are decorous in their faith, Ardens is a true 
wild-eyed zealot. He has visions, or so he 
claims-visions of the Ways of Fate-and he 
enjoys nothing more than telling (haranguing, 
actually) people about them. 

In a different, more religiously tolerant city, 
Ardens might be a figure of amusement or, at 
worst, an embarrassment. In Winters hi ven- 
particularly now, when the Church Militant is 
cracking down on "heretical" beliefs-he rep 
resents a grave danger to his fellow pilgrims. 
While they recognize this danger, he doesn't. 
He's quite likely to fling himself into a diatribe 
at any time-in a tavern, on the street, out 
side a temple to Pholtus-and, unless his 
compatriots stop him, he'll rave on for an 
hour. Luckily for them, the other pilgrims 
have become quite adept at noticing the subtle 
signs that Ardens is working himself up to 
declaim. When they do see a speech coming 
on, they do anything they can to distract him 
or silence him: give him food, yell at him, even 
slap him. (Such behavior is weird, but not 
heretical.) 

The PCs meet the pilgrims during their 
travels throughout the city (the DM should 
choose the most amusingly embarrassing 
moment). Ardens sees the PCs coming, 
and-while his "handlers" are otherwise 
occupied for a moment-heads straight for 
them, . , . 


"Wait!" You turn at the voice. 

A figure hurries toward you. He's old, 
thin as a rake, with scraggly white hair that 
makes his head look like it's exploding. But 
what really catches your attention are his 
eyes. They're a startling, bright blue, and 
they flash with religious fervor ... or mad 
ness. 

"Wait" the old man cries again. "1 saw 
you. I saw you." He grabs at you, clutch 
ing, trying to kiss the hems of your cloth 
ing. 


In his divine madness, Ardens has recently 
had a vision in which he saw the PCs, and 
caught a glimpse of some of Istus s grand 
scheme. At least, he realized that the PCs are 
important in the eyes of his goddess, and 
that's enough for him. As he babbles on about 
this, the other pilgrims-a little belatedly- 
cluster around him. One of them apologizes 
profusely to the PCs for the inconvenience, 
while the others try to shut Ardens up. 

They're too late. A Church Militant patrol 
arrives on the scene, and it's obvious the 
priest-sergeant wants to arrest Ardens, The 


53 







V w ^ 


other pilgrims plead for his freedom, but the 
patrol leader won't listen to them. Instead, he 
turns to one of the PCs-one who is obviously 
not a cleric-and asks whether the old man 
had been saying anything heretical, if the PC 
says yes, the patrol arrests Ardens, and any 
one else who tries to intervene, and carts 
him/them off for incarceration and speedy tri 
al. (If Ardens comes to trial, he's convicted, 
flogged, and ejected from the city.) If the PC 
claims that Ardens wasn't saying anything 
heretical, the patrol leader relents. Instead of 
arresting Ardens, he orders the pilgrims to be 
out of the city within one hour or face worse 
consequences. {If given the choice, the pil 
grims obey the priest-sergeant's instructions 
and leave immediately.) 

No matter how the matter of Ardens turns 
out, the PCs have come to the notice of the 
Church Militant (again), which can only disad 
vantage them in their ultimate goal. 

Dark Secrets 

Unknown to the PCs-in fact, unknown to 
most residents of the city, and only suspected 
by the Church Militant-Winter shiv en is the 
home of a small but active body of worshipers 
of a terrible evil deity. Before the plague, 
there were only a handful of the faithful, hold 
ing their distasteful services in a cellar 
beneath a disused slaughterhouse. Now there 
are more than a score, sending their prayers 
to their evil god in the hopes that he'll spare 
them from the plague. They're led by a half- 
elven cleric who calls himself Mordel (his real 
name is Aelfred Elmstaff, and he works by day 
as a chandler). 

Services to the evil deity require various 
unsavory substances, and the best place to 
find them is the cemetery. Thus, Mordel him 
self or his followers frequently make nocturnal 
"supply expeditions" to the cemetery. As the 
number of worshipers has increased, so have 
Mordels requirements and the frequency of 
his visits. Recently, the cleric's attentions 
have stirred some of the dead who otherwise 
would have lain undisturbed. Now there are 
several residents of the cemetery whose 
slumbers have become unquiet. . , . 

The Cemetery' 

The cemetery is surrounded by 3-foot-high 
walls-more decorative than protective; 
who'd w T ant to invade a cemetery?-and has a 
single wrought-iron gate. During the day, the 
gate is open to let people visit the resting plac 
es of loved ones; four Church Militant legates 
serve as an honor guard. At night, the gate is 
shut and latched (but not locked), and only 
two legates stand guard. (Even though this is 
arguably the most boring duty in the city, the 
legates are usually quite alert; standing with 
their backs to a cemetery has that effect on 


people.) 

The cemetery itself resembles a ne 
cropolis-a city of the dead. Standing in ser 
ried rows are mausoleums and crypts of ah 
shapes and sizes. Most are made of decora 
tive stone, and many are topped with the 
rayed sun emblem of Pholtus. Mausoleums 
usually have a single entrance , often closed off 
by a door or gate. 

Each mausoleum or crypt is dedicated to 
one particular family, and several generations 


of each family rest within. (This cemetery is 
witliin the Citadel, so the families represented 
here are the most influential in Wintershiven. 
Most mausoleums house at least one cleric 
who was once important in the Church hierar 
chy.) There is one mausoleum reserved for 
important people who aren't members of fam 
ilies that have their own resting places. This is 
where the messenger Warin lies. 

As Arlina described, this mausoleum is 
located in the far northwest comer of the 



54 
















1. Antechamber 



cemetery. Its entrance has wrought-iron 
gates (closed but not locked) and is flanked by 
two brass oil lamps (filled but not lit). These 
lamps are lit only when a body is being 
interred in the mausoleum. 

Encounter Tables 

Should the PCs spend enough time wandering 
around the cemetery to warrant random 
encounters, the DM can use the following 
table (roll ld20). This table is valid only at 
night; by day, all encounters are with mourn 
ers, clerics, or other people with a legitimate 
reason for being there. 

I- 4 Evil deity worshipers (1-3) 

5 Ghost (1) 

6-10 Rats (2-12) 

II- 17 Bats (11-30) 

18-20 Giant bat (1) 

Evil deity worshipers^zero-level common 
ers: AC 10; MV 12"; hp 2-5 each; MT 1; 
Dmg 1-4 (dagger) or 1-3 (knife): THACO 20; 
ALNE. 

Out on "'supply missions, 1 ' these people are 
dressed in black and act in a secretive manner. 
PCs might initially suspect that they're some 
kind of undead (and the DM shouldn't tell 
them otherwise). For their part, the evil- 
worshipers will suspect that the PCs are a 
Church Militant patrol, and will fight only to 
save their lives (preferring to hide). . . unless 
they think they can get away with ambushing a 
single PC. 

Ghost ; AC 0; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 41; #AT 1; 
Dmg age 10-40 years; SA fear, magic jar, SD 
harmed only by silver or magic weapons; 
THACO 10; AL LE. 

This ghost is the spirit of an evil- worshiper 
who kept her nature secret. She T s been dis 
turbed from her slumbers by the activities of 
M or del. There is only one ghost; if the PCs 
defeat her, re-roll this result for future 
encounters. 

Rats: See room 1, below. 

Bats: See room 3, below. 

Giant bat: AC 8; MV 3'718"; HD Va; hp 4; 
MT 1; Dmg 1-4; THACO 20; AL N; SA 1% 
chance of causing rabies; SD missile-weapon 
attackers with Dex 12 or lower attack at "3 
"to hit." 

Mausoleum Encounter Key 
The entire building is m total darkness. All 
ceilings are 10 feet high. Gates are made of 
black wrought iron, and aren't locked. 



The antechamber contains thirty rats, half of 
them adult and the other half voung. 

Rats, adult (15): AC 7; MV 15"; HD V*; hp 
1-2; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA 5% chance of serious 
disease: THACO 20; AL N(E). 

Rats f young (15): AC 7; MV 9"; HD 1 hp; 
#AT 1; Dmg nil; SA 5% chance of serious dis 
ease; THACO 20; ALN). 

This chamber is the rats' home, and the 
adults will attack anything that disturbs them. 
The adults will fight to the death to protect 
their young; the young will only fight if directly 
threatened or handled. The rats have built a 
nest out of old rags, scraps of parchment, and 
other scavenged materials that they've 
dragged into the mausoleum. Among the 
scraps is part of a scroll (the rest has been eat 
en). The scroll used to contain several spells, 
but only one is still readable: Mordenkainen , s 
faithful hound. 

The rats' nest is highly flammable. Using 
fire, or any fire-based or electricity-based 
spells, will certainly set them aflame, destroy 
ing the scroll. Even magic missile has a 25% 
chance per missile used (noncumulative) of 
igniting the nest, 

2, Hallway 

The dry air is filled with an ammonia-like 
reek, sharp enough to make your eyes 
water. As you negotiate the hallway, you 
notice that the dust on the floor has been 
recently disturbed by footprints. 

Because of the effect on their eyes, PCs and 
any other humans or humanoids (such as a 
Church Militant patrol) are - 2 "to hit" on any 
combat attempt that takes place in this room 
or within two rounds after exiting it. 

3. First Crypt Room 

As you enter the room, chaos erupts 
around you. With a mad squeaking and 
chittering, you're engulfed in a cloud of 
blackness. Leathery wings buffet your 
face, tiny daws catch at your hair, and 
small furry bodies careen into you. 

The room is occupied by 50 bats. During the 
day three times that number nest here, but at 
night most of them are out feeding on insects. 
Even so, the number present is enough to 
give the PCs a bad few seconds. 

Bats (50): AC 8; MV 1/724"; HD V*; hp 1- 


2; #AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 20: AL N; SD in fine 
flying conditions AC improves to 4. 

The bats won't bite unless attacked first 
(they're scared and they just want to get out 
of there). There are so many of them, how 
ever, that they might put out torches (75% 
chance for each one lit) and/or cause PCs to 
drop objects they're holding (25% chance per 
PC) in order to cover their faces and eyes. 
The floor is covered with bat guano and is 
very slippery, so there's also a chance that the 
PCs will fall. Each PC must make a ld2G Dex 
terity Check or slip and fall. Anyone who falls 
has a 50% chance of dropping any object held. 
Dropped torches will certainly be extin 
guished on contact with the floor. 

Lining the walls are crypts: large stone 
coffins, some with ornate designs on their 
lids, all coated with the same slimy black 
deposits as the floor. One of the crypts is 
open, its heavy stone lid pushed back. 

The open crypt (marked "A" on the map) is 
empty except for some dust. (In fact, it was 
never used, but the PCs won't know that.) If 
the PCs clear away the deposits, they'll find 
that each crypt has on its lid a small brass 
plaque. Most of these bear a name and a date; 
the plaque on the empty crypt is blank. A 
crypt lid weighs over 100 pounds, and is too 
unwieldy for one person to lift regardless of 
strength. Two people can do so easily, how 
ever. Apart from the empty one, all crypts 
contain moldering bodies, garbed in white 
robes, with hands folded peacefully on their 
chests. Three of the bodies have rayed sun 
holy symbols clutched in one skeletal hand. 
Each symbol is worth 50 g.p. 

The dead in all of the crypts are resting 
peacefully and won't be mused even should 
the PCs disinter them and steal their posses 
sions. (The DM should build the mood so that 
the PCs are in serious doubt about this, how 
ever.) 

4. Second Crypt Room 

In the center of the room, suspended by 
wires from the ceiling, a golden symbol of 
the rayed sun, perhaps two feet in diame 
ter, catches your light. In each comer of 
the room is a crypt. All four are considera 
bly more ornate than those you've seen 
before, carved from smooth marble. As 
before, the lids bear brass plaques, but 
you don't recognize any of the names. 

The rayed sun symbol is made of base metal 
plated with the thinnest layer of gold. It 
weighs perhaps 30 pounds-much less than 
solid gold would-and is worth no more than 


55 











50 g*p* The twelve ray-points are fairly sharp, 
ho wever, and the symbol could conceivably be 
used as a weapon; consider each point as a 
shortsword (for weapon proficiency pur 
poses) doing 1-3 points of damage on each hit. 

These four crypts contain the bodies of 
warriors, members of an adventuring compa 
ny who helped the Theocracy in its ongoing 
fight against bandit marauders. All are now 
partially decayed bodies, impossible to recog 
nize; but these heroes were buried with some 
of their valuable property. Crypt "B" contains 
a longsword +1; crypt "C" contains a half- 
elven body still wearing a suit of chain mail 
+ 2; crypt "D" contains a dwarven corpse 
still clutching his hammer +Z Crypt "E" 
contains an elven body wearing a cloak of 
elvenkind (free from decay because of its 


dweomer)-and something more: a haunt. In 
life, the haunt was an elven cavalier who 
swore a mighty oath that she'd bring warning 
to the Theocrat himself that a large bandit 
force was massing on the border for an attack 
into the Pale. Since the cavalier died more 
than 20 years ago, her information is a little 
out of date, but her oath still binds her. She 
will attack anyone who opens her crypt, and 
try to possess them* She will then use her vic 
tim's body to gain an audience with the Theo 
crat and pass on her warning. (If a PC falls 
victim to the haunt, this could prove an inter 
esting and difficult task*) 

Haunt: AC 0 or victim's AC; MV 6" or as 
possessed victim; HD 6; hp 36 or victim's hp; 
#AT 1 or 1, as 5 HD monster; Dmg special or 
by weapon of victim; THACO 13 or 15; AL 


LG; SA possession; SD harmed only by silver 
or magic weapons, or fire* 

5* Third Crypt Room 


Your light casts twisted, shifting shadows 
on the walls and crypts. Suddenly, a pebble 
lands at your feet, and complete silence 
closes in on you. Then everything goes 
black, , . * 


Mordel, the leader of the evil cult, is in the 
mausoleum with an assistant, collecting some 
requirements for the next night's services. 
When the PCs startled the bats in the first 
crypt room, Mordel and partner heard the 
commotion, extinguished their light and hid 
behind one of the crypts. He then cast silence 
15' radius on a pebble, and prepared his dark 
ness spell* When the PCs entered the room, 
he tossed the pebble at their feet, thus enclos 
ing them in the area of silence- and prevent 
ing them from casting spells with verbal 
components-while staying outside it. He 
then cast darkness on the party* In the ensu 
ing confusion, he and his assistant hope to 
make their escape. 

Mordel and partner both believe that the 
PCs are a Church Militant patrol, and know 
the unpleasant fate that awaits them if they're 
captured (burning at the stake, if they're 
lucky). They'D both fight to the death rather 
than be taken alive* 

Mordel-5th level cleric: AC 2 ( bracers of 
defense ): MV 12"; HD 5; hp 21; #AT 1; Dmg 
4-15 {staff of striking) or 1-6 (concealed club); 
THACO 18; AL NE; SD 28% immunity to dis 
eases* Spells: command, cause light wounds, 
darkness , hold person , silence 15 1 radius t 
spiritual hammer, cause blindness, 
hypnotism. 

Assistant-2nd level fighter: AC 8 (leath 
er); MV 12"; HD 2; hp 19; Str 18/76; #AT 1 
or x h ; Dmg 7-13 (broadsword or 2-5 
(heavy crossbow); THACO 17 (with sword) or 
18; AL NE. Items carried: tinderbox, two 
flasks of oil* 

The assistant will use burning oil only if the 
situation looks really bad. If the burning oil 
isn't extinguished within one round after it is 
ignited, it consumes all the oxygen in the 
room (and immediately goes out). At the start 
of each subsequent round, each character still 
in the room must make a 4d6 Constitution 
Check. Failure means that the PC passes out 
from anoxia (lack of oxygen)* Once a charac 
ter has passed out, brain damage occurs after 
four rounds (dropping intelligence to 3), and 
death occurs after two more rounds* 

The room remains effectively devoid of 
breathable air for 15 minutes, or until the PCs 


Mausoleum 


Scale: 

1 square - 5 feet 


N 



B 


on 


1 * ! ¦ ¦¦ " U H I j * i 1 ^ ¦ - J , M - | I 

nttincnfGiri 


u 


56 











find some way of ventilating it (with a gust of 
wind, for example). 

Mordel and his assistant had opened one of 
the crypts (the one marked "F" on the map)* 
and had taken various unpleasant substances 
from within. MordeTs activities around the 
cemetery have disquieted some of the dead, 
and the occupant of this crypt is no exception. 
In life* he was a lawful evil assassin who 
entered the dty disguised as a visiting cleric of 
Pholtus. While in Wintershiven, he died in a 
tragic accident and was interred-ironically 
enough-with great honor. His spirit was 
already troubled over his body being buried 
with people so antithetic to his alignment; now 
this last desecration proved to be the last 
straw. Ten rounds after the combat with Mor 
del begins* the occupant rises as a spectre. 

If combat is still going on in the room, he 
immediately enters the fray, attacking anyone 
and everyone impartially. (DM note: The 
spectre will probably gain surprise and make 
its first attack from the back, with all the 
bonuses that entails.) Otherwise, the spectre 
waits in the room to attack anyone ivho 
enters. If after two hours nobody has entered 
the room, the spectre leaves and makes its 
way toward the entrance to the mausoleum. 
Unless and until it's destroyed, it will forever 
after haunt the mausoleum and prowl the 
cemetery at night. 

Spectre; AC 2; MV 15'730"; HD-7 +3; tip 
36; 0AT 1; Dmg 1-8; THACO 13; AL LE; SA 
energy drain; SD +1 or better weapon to hit. 

Because the attending clerics didn't recog 
nize its value* the assassin's body was buried 
still wearing a gold ring mounted with a black 
opal (value 1,500 g.p.). Since the spectre is 
insubstantial, the body-and the ring-are left 
behind in the crypt. 

As with the crypts in room 3, the lids are 
too bulky for one person to remove, yet fairly 
easy for two. Apart from the one that Mordel 
had opened (the one that held the spectre), 
the crypts contain only moldering bodies. 

6. Fourth Crypt Room 


The air is still and dry as you enter the 
room. Crypts line the walls. 


The bodies in these crypts are totally bare of 
anything valuable. 

7. Fifth Crypt Room 


Like the room before it, stone crypts line 
the waUs. On each lid is a small brass 
plaque. You check the plaques, and quickly 
find one that bears the name " Warin'' and a 
recent date. 


Warm's crypt is the one marked "G." As with 
the other crypts, the lid can easily be removed 
by two people. Within is a fairly fresh male 
corpse bearing horrible and disfiguring 
wounds. Around its neck is a small gold disk 
on a thin chain: the Amulet of the Spirit . The 
use of detect magic and similar spells will indi 
cate a strong dweomer, but won't give any 
idea of exactly what the amulet's powers are. 
In fact, as related to the PCs by Arlina* any 
one wearing the amulet is immune to magics 
and attacks that directly affect the soul or spir 
it ( trap the soul, magic jar, the attack of a 
ghost, possession, etc.). 

Unbeknownst to the PCs when they discov 
er it* the amulet a\so provides the w T earer with 
25% magic resistance against ESP and telepa 
thy (this resistance can't be waived). 

Again as Arlina described, if the wearer dies 
while wearing the amulet, his spirit is held in 
stasis until freed. While in stasis, the soul can 
not progress to any other plane of existence 
that may be awaiting it; the person cannot be 
raised, resurrected or reincarnated; and 
speak with dead and similar spells won't work 
at all. 

To free the soul, the amulet must be 
removed from contact with the body ; then the 
spells bless T protection from evil * and chant 
must be cast over the body. (Of course, to do 
so for Warm, the PC cleric must have request 
ed these spells in advance. If the cleric wor 
ships a non-evil deity* it's almost certain that 
the spells would be granted, since freeing 
Warm's soul is a good act.) If the PCs perform 
the correct ritual, everyone in the room feels 
something as the last spell is completed: a 
sudden impression of release and gratitude. 

W^rin was buried wearing the clothes in 
which he died: breeches and a nondescript 
gray jerkin. In an inside pocket of the jerkin is 
a folded piece of parchment that was rendered 
invisible. A casting of dispel magic at the third 
level of ability or higher will remove the invisj- 
bility spell and allow the PCs to read the 
parchment. 

As Arlina had hinted, the parchment con 
tains information that will interest the PCs. If 
this adventure is played as part of the overall 
campaign, the message is mainly a disserta 
tion on rumors claiming that the Scarlet 
Brotherhood was recently all but wiped out by 
a plague, and their power broken perhaps for 
ever. The message goes on to say that these 
rumors might be confirmed or denied by an 
expert on strange diseases, an unnamed sage 
residing in the city of Leukish in the Duchy of 
Umst. 

If this adventure is played stand- alone, 
however, the message deals with the fear that 
a plague might soon sweep the land (this fear 
was based on a prophetic dream that a her 
metic holy man had). The message goes on to 


detail a treatment that the holy man concocted 
from information he gained from his dream. 
This treatment is, in fact, a cure for the 
plague. 

Concluding the Adventure 

The nature and sequence of events after the 
characters leave the cemetery depend on how 
they've handled matters throughout their 
stay in the city. If they haven't succeeded in 
losing their Church Militant "escorts" a 
patrol (or two) might be awaiting them outside 
the walls. Also, the arrangement with Arlina 
means that they must meet her the evening 
after they complete the mission, necessitating 
a further day's stay in the city. During this 
time, Shirl-and her father-might put in 
another appearance. 

When (and if) the PCs meet with Arlina, she 
requests the amulet and the message that 
Warm was carrying (the PCs are welcome to 
use the information contained within the mes 
sage, but Arlina wants the actual document). 
If the PCs hand over both items and assure 
Arlina that the required spells have been cast 
over Warm's body, she congratulates and 
thanks them for a job well done. She reaches 
into a pocket in her robe, extracts a number of 
tiny copies of her golden spindle holy symbol* 
and presents one to each PC cleric. As 
described in The Mirrors of Fate, this symbol 
has the powers of a luckstone ; the power of 
each spindle lasts for eight days. Then Arlina 
wishes the PCs well and departs about her 
business. 

The Judgment of Fate 
As far as Istus is concerned, to succeed in the 
test the PCs must perform the ceremony that 
Arlina described to free Warm's soul, and 
must return the Amulet to her. They must do 
both without causing "undue loss of life " If, 
during the course of the adventure, the PCs 
have slain anyone non-evil in alignment (which 
Includes almost anyone except for members 
of the Scarlet Brotherhood or the evil- 
worshipers), the DM must decide whether 
the killing could reasonably have been avoid 
ed. If it could have been reasonably avoided, 
the PCs fail the Test of the Clerics regardless 
of their other activities. 

If the PCs fail to perform the ceremony and 
give the amulet to Arlina, all clerics in the Fla- 
naess lose 1 point of constitution. This loss 
occurs at the instant that the PCs perma 
nently lose control of the amulet (to the 
Church Militant, perhaps), or when the PCs 
irrevocably decide to keep the amulet or not 
to perform the ceremony. If the DM judges 
that the PCs have failed through unnecessary 
killing, the constitution loss occurs at the 
instant of the first unnecessary death. 


57 












Leukish 

An average-sized (population about 21,000) 
city of Oerik, Leukish began around 200 C Y as 
a trading post between Furyondy and Nyrond, 
Later the Duchy of Umst's own treasures 
(precious metals and stones) were discov 
ered, and the city grew as the duchy's size 
and wealth grew- Since the duchy's rulers 
demanded 60% of each mine's products in 
return for land claims and military protection, 
Leukish flourished. 

Ships began to leave from Leukish with pre 
cious cargoes, and so piracy increased with 
the duchy's prosperity. Also, the merchants 
had many unfriendly (though rarely violent) 
encounters with Nyr Dyv's other group of 
traders, the Rhennee. Even today, the 
duchy's support of its merchant class causes 
great antipathy between the lake people and 
the "landers/* 

Though the duchy's ruling family lived in a 
huge fortress at the mouth of the Nesser Riv 
en they named Leukish as the capital city and 
appointed a sovereign noble as its mayor/ 
governor Thus, the duchy is ruled from a seat 
of military power, while its civilian population 
is centered in Leukish, 

Due to the riches stored on its shores, the 
city is heavily fortified and defended. More 
than 2,000 soldiers and marines are stationed 
here, all on watch for pirates and monsters 
from Nyr Dyv. Though the chance of an 
armed invasion is small, the soldiers are also 
prepared to defend against the army of any 
nation that desires the duchy's wealth. They 
patrol the streets for troublemakers as well. 

Violent crimes are strongly discouraged by 
the soldiers, but bribery and theft are more 
common. Thus corruption is a well-known but 
unspoken aspect of life in this city. City offi 
cials and judges are often more immoral than 
the criminals who fill the national prison, 
which is a large castle 15 miles south of Leuk 
ish. 

Though no thieves 1 guild exists, many low- 
and mid-level thieves plague the streets, 
especially in crowded areas. The problem is 
made worse because soldier patrols can be 
bribed (typically 10 g.p. per watchman and 25 
g.p. for the officer) to release a captured pick 
pocket. Any player character who carries 
more than 100 g.p. on his person will become 
the target of one lst-6th level thief per day. 
The best way to avoid the pickpockets is to 
deposit extra valuables in the City Treasury 
(area 13). 

The Map of the City 

Leukish is surrounded on three sides by the 
grassy flatlands of the Duchy of Umst, Many 
small groves of trees grow in the city and just 


outside its walls. 

Since Leukish is not the home of the 
duchy T s royal family, it is not as heavily armed 
as it might otherwise be. Nevertheless, the 
city's northern side is well defended against 
threats from Nyr Dyv, and its actual field of 
influence spreads over 30 miles across the 
lake. Of course, threats from beneath the 
waves are out of the royal navy's control. 

Numbered areas on the map are described 
below. Many of the locations in the city could 
come into play during Adventure #6, "The 
Garden of Evil." If the entry for an area is pre 
ceded by an asterisk, more information about 
that area is given in the adventure text. 

1. Leukish Castle 

This medium-sized fortress represents one of 
the largest military presences on Nyr Dyv, 
second only to Admundfort of the Shield 
Lands. It is a direct result of the duchy's 
wealth and desire to keep that wealth. 

The castle is stocked with enough supplies 
to withstand a year-long siege, if necessary. It 
has facilities to support 2,000 soldiers, though 
at any one time, up to 1,500 men are in ships 
patrolling the southeastern quarter of the 
lake. All of these soldiers are trained as light 
infantry and marines (naval fighters), while 
many are also archers and artillerists. 

The military docks can hold up to 20 war 
ships, and more ships can anchor close off 
shore. Because these ships are used 
extensively, the castle maintains a large repair 
facility. 

The 30-foot-tall city wall is an extension of 
the castle. Its gates remain open and con 
stantly guarded. The soldiers are accustomed 
to seeing a colorful mixture of travelers, 
adventurers, and suspicious characters pass 
through the gates, so they take action only 
when trouble arises. 

During his visits, Lord Karll sleeps at the 
castle with his escort of 300 soldiers and 50 
Elite Guards (3rd level fighters). At such 
times, the castle also maintains double the 
normal number of guards on duty for extra 
safety, 

2 . Granary 

This iron-walled building holds an emergency 
supply of grain, usually many tons of it. The 
granary is guarded by three soldiers who 
serve to keep out hungry beggars and 
thieves. 

*3, Lake Docks 

These piers extend out from huge wooden 
platforms on shore. The docks are occupied 
by fishing boats (mostly at night) , personal 
yachts, merchant ships, and Rhennee barges 
(only in the daytime). During daylight, sol 
diers keep watch on the travelers , merchants, 


sailors, and laborers who move among the 
crates of treasure and goods. 

4, Construction Yards 

These docks are often empty, but are some 
times occupied by newly built ships, either 
unsold or recently sold. To the south is the 
work area, which contains 2-5 vessels (per 
week) in various stages of construction. The 
craft are commonly galleys, merchant ships, 
and barges, with an occasional warship. Tool 
sheds and piles of lumber surround the unfin 
ished vessels. 

In daylight, the construction yard is filled 
with busy workers and overseers. At night, 
the yard is empty except for 2-5 mercenaries 
in the southern office, and for six vicious war 
dogs who patrol the area (but never leave it). 
Mercenaries-1 st-leve!Eghtcrs (2-5): AC 5 
(chain mail); MV 12"; hp 2-5 each; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-8 (longsword); THACO 20; AL N. 

War dogs (6): AC 7; MV 15"; HD 2 +2; hp 
17, 16, 14, 14, 13, 11; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; 
THACO 16; ALN. 

5, Fish Market 

In the early afternoon this open area is full of 
wooden carts. Iforious fish, shrimp, and fresh 
water crabs are available at cheap prices, and 
a large part of the city's population gathers 
here in the afternoon. Local villagers also 
come here to sell com, grain, fresh bread, and 
(occasionally) fresh meat and fruit. 

6, Sailor's Guild 

Once a sleazy tavern, this poorly kept building 
serves to unite merchants and travelers with 
shipmasters and crews. Most sailors at the 
lake docks are members, and those who are 
not find themselves generally distrusted by 
the people of Leukish. 

The Guildmaster is an ex-shipmaster and a 
5th level fighter. He loves to tell of his battles 
against pirates and monsters on Nyr Dyv. His 
assistants are two ex-lieutenants (3rd level 
fighters), while around 1,200 zero-level sail 
ors hold membership. 

The Guildmaster keeps records of dishon 
est actions by ship crews, officers, and 
employers, and he freely warns others with 
this information. Thus, only trustworthy 
crews and employers are usually found here, 

7, Gray Ghost Tavern 

This tavem/inn is popular with travelers and 
sailors who arrive at the lake docks from other 
lands. Because of the nature of its patrons, it 
is also a hot spot for gamblers, adventurers, 
and those who wish to hire adventurers. 
Characters who seek information about 
strange lands, creatures, and people will find 
that the bar's customers are a verbal library 
(for the price of a drink or two), though rumor 


58 






:.V 


It Leukish Castle 
Z. Granary 
3. Lake Docks 


4- Construction Yards 


Fish Market 


£>. Sailor's Guild 


7. Grey Ghost Tavern 

8. Poor Section 

9* Temple of Lydia 

10. Shops and Businesses 

11. Swordsmith 

1Z. Commoners' Homes 
13* City Treasury 

14. Government Hall 

15. Governor's Mansion 

16. Racing Arena 
17- Hospital 

18. Alchemist Shop 

19. Wealthy Homes 

20. Halfling Village 
2L The Dining Hill 
22* The City Garden 





















is often mixed with fact. 

The patrons are more apt to be loud and 
boastful than violent, though brawls occasion 
ally erupt in the common room. Any customer 
who displays or claims wealth and then sleeps 
in one of the upstairs rooms is likely (85% 
chance) to be visited in the night by a 6th-9th 
level thief. 

8, Poor Section 

These run-down streets and buildings are 
occupied by the city's lower class. There are 
general laborers, unskilled miners ("dirtdig- 
gers"), and other workers on whom the 
wealth of Leukish stands, plus their uneducat 
ed families. Though poor by the duchy's 
standards, they still live at a level equal to 
lower-middle-class in most other kingdoms. 
Hiding among the law-abiding citizens are 
secret groups who steal from and extort the 
merchants who deal in precious metals and 
stones at the lake docks, 

*9. Temple of Lydia 

Built in honor of Lydia, the Lady of Music and 
Thought, this wooden structure stands to 
greet all who enter Leukish from the lake. 

10. Shops and Businesses 

These rows of buildings represent the various 
business districts of Leukish. The quality of 
items various from average to good. There 
are shops for all types of common equipment, 
plus some that sell armor and weapons, and a 
handful of stables and taverns. 

Some businessmen, especially jewelers and 
weapon-dealers, maintain paid staffs of pri 
vate guards. Most merchants and tradesmen 
rely on the soldiers who patrol the roads regu 
larly, Complaints from shop owners are not 
taken lightly by the city's military. 

11. Swordsmith 

Each day black smoke pours out from the 
chimney of this stone building. It is occupied 
by three zero-level boy assistants and their 
master, the swordsmith. He is an ex-soldier 
who fought in many battles between the 
Duchy's marines and pirates on Nyr Dyv. 

The shop sells many types of swords, and 
has the following average number for sale: 
three bastard swords, five broadswords, nine 
longs words, twelve shortswords, and three 
two-handed swords. These weapons cost 
50% more than normal prices due to fine 
craftsmanship. Scabbards are included. 

In a locked back room, in addition to the 
smith's suit of armor, are several high-quality, 
nonmagical blades priced at ten times the nor 
mal cost. Each of these weapons is +1 on 
damage. They include two broadswords, 
three longswords, two shortswords, and one 
two-handed sword. 


Smith-7th level fighter :AC 10 (unarmored 
while working) or 3 (plate mail kept in back 
room); MV 12"; HD 7: hp 55; Str 18/95, Int 
10 T Wis 12, Dex 14, Con 18, Cha 10; 0KT 3/2; 
Dmg by weapon type ( + 5 for strength 
bonus); THACO 12; AL CN. Proficiencies: all 
sword types, blacksmith, weaponsmith* 

12. Commoners 1 Homes 

These well-kept homes and two-story apart 
ments are occupied by the city's middle class, 
though they live at lower- upper-class stand 
ards in comparison to other kingdoms. Due to 
bribes to the castle's lieutenants, military 
patrols are common in these streets. 

13. City Treasury 

Built of stone and iron, this small fortress con 
tains four large vaults, each vault having 100 
iron boxes. Each box holds 30-180 g.p. worth 
of coins and jewelry, plus deeds of ownership 
and other legal documents. The vaults can 
only be reached by a series of locked iron 
doors, portcullises, and other gates. In a 
dungeon below the building is the government 
vault, containing at least 10,000 gold pieces 
and 50,000 silver pieces. 

Stationed here are one captain (8th level 
fighter), 10 sergeants (3rd level fighter), and 
100 regular soldiers (zero-level). The captain 
owns a shorts word +3 which can detect evil7 
good 10' radius and detect invisible objects 
20'radius. He is assisted by a 6th level magic- 
user who is armed with the following spells: 
burning hands, magic missile, shocking grasp, 
sleep , scare, wizard lock, fireball, and light 
ning bolt The magic-user has placed explo 
sive runes on several doors in areas which are 
off limits to unauthorized persons: intruders 
may (50% chance) find such a trapped door 
while searching for a way into one of the 
vaults. 

Anyone may store valuables at the treasury, 
for a charge of 5% of the gold piece value. The 
magic-user wears a ring of truth whenever 
dealing with customers; cheats are immedi 
ately detected and surrounded by armed sol 
diers. 

14. Government Hall 

This oddly shaped marble structure is the 
center of law and corruption for Leukish. Its 
court chambers usually see only trials against 
poor criminals, since wealthier lawbreakers 
can afford to bribe the judges. However, vio 
lent crimes are not subject to mercy from offi 
cials, so the weekly armored wagon still 
becomes full for its southward journey to the 
national prison. 

Around 50-80 soldiers are here in daytime, 
and 30 at evening and night. They guard cap 
tives in the holding cells, escort prisoners, 
and keep order in the hallways and courts. 


One captain (8th level fighter) oversees the 
soldiers. He scorns open corruption in his 
troops, though secret payoffs are common. 

*15. Governor's Mansion 

This two-story home is a gaudy display of 
wealth, both outside and in. It is separated 
from the rest of the city by tall bushes and 
long pathways. The outside of the building is 
covered with porches, balconies, tall glass 
windows, and ornately carved pillars. The 
front door has a permanent magic mouth that 
speaks when anyone approaches within 10 
feet; it says loudly, "Welcome to the resi 
dence of the Lord-Governor Hadric." 

16. Racing Arena 

Popular with the middle and upper classes, 
this stadium seats up to 5,000 spectators. On 
every Free day, twelve eight-horse races are 
staged. Large crowds gather on racing days, 
and pickpockets abound. The stadium's 50 
armed guards (1st level fighters with dubs 
and chain mail) are backed by dozens of sol 
diers, though the soldiers tend to care for 
wealthy patrons (and others who have bribed 
them) more than the common people. 

A character can bet on one horse per race. 
Extra betting on a single race gives a 33% 
chance (per bet beyond the first) to be caught 
by the guards, who immediately dispel the 
rulebreaker. Between 1 and 100 g.p. can be 
bet on a single horse, and the bettor can 
choose horses with odds paying between 3:2 
and 8:1. Roll on the Racing Table, below, to 
determine the winner of each race. 

The use of spells (such as haste or slow) 
alerts the officials, who employ a wand of 
magic detection to prevent this type of cheat 
ing. The results of magically tampered races 
are declared null and void, and all bets are 
refunded. If caught, the offender is severely 
beaten by the guards and then thrown into the 
street. 

Fifty boy attendants feed and groom the % 
racing horses. On non-racing days, 20 guards 
patrol the area day and night. Horse thieves 
are beaten and then given to the soldiers for 
trial. 

Racing Table 


Horse 

Odds 

Winner 

(IdlOO) 

#1 

3:2 

01-24 

02 

2:1 

2544 

03 

3:1 

45-60 

04 

4:1 

61-72 

05 

5:1 

73-82 

06 

6:1 

83-90 

07 

7:1 

91-% 

08 

8:1 

99-00 


60 











17. Hospital 

This two-story building contains many small 
rooms with beds for the sick and injured. Any 
one may enter to receive free care; the hospi 
tal is government-funded. However, note that 
officials and nobles receive "house calls" 
instead of public healing. Employed here are 
54 people with healing proficiency: 12 physi 
cians (wisdom 13-18; -4 die roll modifier to 
Proficiency Checks) and 42 caretakers (wis 
dom 11-18; -2 die roll modifier). A charge of 
50 g.p. is collected from anyone who wants or 
needs the care of a physician; those unable or 
unwilling to pay are treated by the caretakers. 

18. Alchemist Shop 

This simple shop is owned by a wealthy alche 
mist (zero-level commoner). The front room 
is furnished with tapestries and a long wooden 
counter. Behind this room is the laboratory (a 
large chamber packed with tables, glassware, 
vials of powders and liquids, and a furnace) 
and the alchemist's bedchamber (with a bed 
under which is a hidden compartment contain 
ing 950 g.p.). A teen-age girl (zero-level 
apprentice) usually deals with customers in 
the front room. 

19. Wealthy Homes 

Similar to but smaller than the governor's 
home, these four mansions are occupied by 
the city's richest families. Each building has 
gardens and tree groves, and is surrounded 
by thick stone walls. The grounds are 
patrolled by soldiers (off-duty but well paid) 
and sometimes war dogs. 


20, Halfling Village 

This area is filled with grassy hills (covering 
cozy burrows), winding paths, small cottages, 
and vegetable gardens. Around 50 halfling 
families live here, all immigrants from the 
Cairn Hills. Most are Hairfeet. 

The halflings work as gardeners, carpen 
ters, tailors, and leatherworkers in the city. 
Some also farm small plots near the village. 
They generally do not seek great wealth, but 
instead collect only enough money to eat and 
live comfortably. This economic modesty 
causes them to be popular with upper-class 
citizens, who trust the halflings over any oth 
er group in Leukish. 

If threatened, any adult halfling can defend 
himself with dagger or shortsword, while many 
can also use shortbows. City soldiers do not 
normally patrol this area, but if there is trouble 
they will ride in and assist the halflings. 

21. The Dining Hill 

The largest burrow in the village, this 12- 
room area is a popular restaurant with half 
lings. The innkeeper is a 5th level fighter, a 
cheerful ex-adventurer with many tales about 
the Abhor-Alz and the Wild Coast. He is profi 
cient with knife and shortbow, and doubly 
specialized with the shortsword. Non-halfling 
strangers are tolerated in his restaurant, but 
troublemakers are not. In the common room, 
meals are served from sunrise to sunset. The 
employees are always busy, since a typical 
non-adventuring halting eats five meals each 
day. Ale and wine are also served, though half 
lings drink such things only moderately. On 
Moonday and Earthday nights, the common 
room is especially festive with many singing 
and laughing halflings. 


Ten rooms are available for rent, with ceil 
ing heights and bed sizes for halfling-sized 
persons. Each night, 2-8 rooms are occupied 
by an individual, couple, or small family, 

22. The City Garden 
Once a playground for romantics and nature 
lovers, this area was closed to the public two 
years ago. "Suspicious visitors" was the offi 
cial reason, though the governor's personal 
use is the widely believed (but rarely spoken) 
reason. 

The Garden consists of several flagstone 
paths among groves of horn wood, walnut, and 
yew trees. Various ferns and bushes also 
grow among the trees, making each grove a 
thick green maze. A character outside a grove 
may see up to 25 feet into one, but not beyond 
that. Small boulders stand here and there 
among the trees-excellent missiles for hill 
giants! 

The Garden is surrounded by a 20-foot-talJ 
stone wall, topped by a recent addition: razor- 
edged knife blades bristling in all directions. 
Any character who attempts to climb over the 
wall suffers a -50% penalty to his climbing 
modifier and takes 2-8 hp damage (save for 
half damage). Also, any rope that is hung over 
the blades and which supports a character (or 
equal weight) must save vs. crushing blow 
(actually a cutting blow) each round or be 
sliced. The eastern wall abuts this part of the 
city wall, making a barrier of double thick 
ness. The top of the 20-foot-tall Garden wall 
along this side is bladed like the rest of the 
Garden walls. 


61 







THE CARDEN OF EVIL 


This adventure is designed for four or five 
characters, each of 7th-9th level* The test is 
designed for rangers, though it involves the 
fighting and woodland skills of all player char 
acters. 

DM's Introduction 

For the location of each numbered area 
referred to below, see the map of Leukish in 
Ye Olde City Scroll elsewhere in this book* 

Having traveled to Leukish in the Duchy of 
Umst, hoping to find the "unnamed sage" 
mentioned at the end of "Service for the 
Dead" (Adventure #5), learn a lot by just 
standing and listening to the first sizable group 
of residents they encounter* They find out 
three items of information, which may be gos 
sip or rumor . * .but have the ring of truth: 

1* Lord Karll, the Duke of Umst, is in Leuk 
ish on a royal visit* He sleeps in Leukish Cas 
tle (area 1) and meets each day with Governor 
Hadric in Government Hall (area 14)* 

2, Shipments of gems have been vanishing 
from the shipyard warehouses. These gems 
normally arrive weekly from mines in the 
Cairn Hills, then are sent out to Furyondy and 
the Shield Lands* After each theft, the ware 
house guards are found with crushed skulls, 
and as a result* few men-at-arms are now 
applying for work at the shipyards. 

3, Governor Hadric refuses to send military 
aid to the shipyards because he believes that 
the problem concerns only merchants, and so 
is not of national significance. He seems to 
fed that more important matters require his 
full attention, such as pirates and monsters 
from the lake, desert raiders in the south* and 
Lord Karll's visit* 

Unknown to the player characters, Alaric- 
first encountered in "Swords for Hire" 
(Adventure #2)-is mixed up in the gem 
thefts. Using his charisma and leadership abili 
ty, and the aid of Istus* he has insinuated him 
self into the upper echelon of the Leukish 
social/political hierarchy. He is the chief 
guardian of the City Garden (area 22), where 
the stolen goods are being stored. 

City Governor Hadric, a mid-level illusion 
ist, started the thefts by traveling alone to the 
Cairn Hills on a "personal matter*" There he 
used potions of giant control to convince two 
hill giants to accompany him back to Leukish* 
They accomplished the journey by hiding 
invisibly during daylight, and traveling at 
night* Now the giants live in the City Garden 
under the protection of Alaric, the mercenary 
Sabrina, and her six henchmen archers. 

Once every two months, when a large ship 
ment of gems is stored in one of the ware 
houses (area 3), Hadric casts invisibility 10' 
radius over himself and the two giants, then 
walks with them from the Garden to the ware 


houses* There they kill the guards and grab 
cratefuls of precious stones* Later Hadric 
smuggles the stones into the Garden, where 
they are stored, and then to his mansion (area 
15), where he holds them until a suitable buy 
er pays gold for the gems. Some of the money 
eventually filters back to the two giants and 
the people who aid the operation* 

The Non-Player Characters 

Before acting out the roles of the NPCs, the 
good DM must understand each one's motiva 
tions and attitudes. Below is a brief descrip 
tion of each NPC's personality, with statistics 
afterward. 

Alaric is less merciful to the player charac 
ters than he was in Rel Mord, since each PC is 
now about as powerful as he is. Thus he is 
willing to fight to the death to push the test to 
its fullest* To the best of his (and the DM's) 
ability, he sets the test so that the PCs are 
lured into the City Garden* and he plans to 
fight them there. Asa servant of Istus, he has 
no loyalty to the duke, the governor, or any 
other mortal. The consequences that befall 
Leukish are irrelevant to him. 

Lord Karll is on a mission purely political in 
purpose. He knows that his visit is merely a 
obligation of rulers hip, and he is bored by it. 
He would gladly trade this visit for a giant- 
hunting expedition in the Gnarley Forest . The 
duke T s restlessness, caused by dissatisfaction 
with his present lot in life, keeps him alert for 
action in Leukish. 

Governor Hadric is nervous about Karll's 
visit, since open knowledge of the thieving 
operation would destroy him. However, 
Hadric's greed is stronger than his paranoia, 
and thus he plans to attack the warehouses 
even during Karll's stay. Hadric is 30% loyal 
(as a henchman) to the duke, though the gov 
ernor pretends to be 110% loyal* He supports 
the duke only because Karll's naivete keeps 
the thieving operation from disbanding, thus 
meaning many extra gems in Hadric's vaults* 

The hill giants are likewise not loyal to their 
"master," the governor. They follow his 
orders grudgingly* seeking only to attain great 
wealth before they leave* However, their 
greed (like Hadric s) has no limit, so they are 
likely to stay with Hadric as long as the thiev 
ing operation continues* The giants are well 
aware that they are in a city full of people who 
would gladly kill them. If discovered, they 
know that they must fight to the death* 

Sabrina is 50% loyal to her boss, Hadric, 
and she likes the leadership (and cooperation) 
of Alaric* As a mercenary, she enjoys the 
wealth her job brings her. Briskly efficient and 
an optimist, she sees no end to the thefts as 
long as all members continue to do their jobs 
effectively. In a fight she must be reduced to 
20 hit points before having to make a morale 


check. 

Sabrina's followers are 100% loyal to her. 
Having been her henchmen since they were 
all 1st level, they now know that their leader is 
a tough, dangerous lady who rarely backs 
down from a fight. The archers follow her 
every order, never check morale while in her 
presence unless she fails such a check, and 
are likely to fight to the death for her. 

Lord Karll, the Duke of Umst-12th level 
ranger: AC 7 (studded leather) or -5 (full 
plate armor +4 and shield +1); MV 6" 
(armored) or 12"; HD 12: hp 71; Sir 16, Int 
14, Wis 14, Dex 14 * Con 17, Cha 17; SAT 3/2; 
Dmg by weapon type; THACO 10; AL CG. 
Druid spells (usually): detect magic, faerie 
fire, charm person or mammal. Magic-user 
spells: jump, protection from evil. Proficien 
cies: longbow specialization, halberd, two- 
handed sword, long sword, dagger* battle axe, 
healing, hunting* land-based riding, swim 
ming. 

Governor Hadric-5th level illusionist: MV 
12"; AC 7 (fin# of protection +3; HD 5; hp 
12; Str9, Int 16, Wis 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Cha 
15; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type; THACO 20: 
AL LE. Spells (in memory): change self, color 
spray, darkness * wall of fog t fog cloud, iii visi 
bility invisibility 10' radius; Proficiencies: 
land-based riding, swimming, weather sense* 
Items owned/carried (not necessarily on per 
son): two potions of invisibility, three potions 
of speed* three potions of hUl giant control 

Hill Giants (2): AC 4; MV 12"; HD 8; hp 58, 
54; #AT 1; Dmg 2-16 (usually club): THACO 
12; AL CE; SA hurl rocks for 2-16* 

Sabrina-8th level tighter: AC 1 (chain mail 
plus dexterity bonus); MV 13"; HD 8; hp 58: 
Str 12, Int 12, Wis 10, Dex 18, Con 10, Cha 
15; #AT 3 (with longbow) or 3/2; Dmg by 
weapon type; THACO 14; AL LE* Proficien 
cies: longbow specialization, longs word* 
short sword, staff, dagger, alertness, healing, 
tracking* Items carried: nine arrows + 3 . 

Archers-3rd level fighters (6): AC 5 
(chain mail); MV 12"; HD 3; hp 25, 22, 20, 
19,17,16; #AT 2 (with longbow) or 1; Dmg 1- 
6/1 ^6 (arrows); THACO 18; AL LE; SA long 
bow specialization. 

Playing Cat-and-Mouse 

When the player characters enter the Garden 
for the final battle, they will first be attacked 
by Sabrina and her archers* Naturally these 
guardians will hide in the lush greenery of the 
area, rather than risk melee combat with the 
PCs* The following rules are designed to sim 
ulate the cat-and-mouse game of characters 
hunting other characters through the thick 
woods of the Garden* 

The characters may search individually or in 
groups. (Hereafter in this section, "NPC" 
stands for a non-player character individual or 


62 




group and 41 PC* 1 stands for a player character 
individual or group*) The chance of a PC 
encounter with an NPC is 2 in 6 per round if 
one of the parties is stationary, or 1 in 6 if both 
parties are moving* Double the chance if the 
PC has encountered an NPC in the last five 
rounds and then lost sight of it* The NPC 
encountered can be chosen randomly by the 
Dungeon Master, or may be determined by 
checking which NPC is most likely to be in a 
given area. Of course, if no NPC is in the area, 
there is no chance of an encounter, regardless 
of die-roll results. 

Roll ldlG on the Concealment Table to 
determine each PC's and NPC's average con 
cealment by surrounding bushes and leaves. 
Rangers and those with alertness proficiency 
are surprised 1 in 6 times, while others are 
surprised 3 in 6 times. This ld6 roll is modi 
fied by the opponent's surprise bonus, taken 
from the Concealment Table, To check sur 
prise for the NPC, use the average conceal 
ment status of all members of the PC. 

A PC or NPC can hide in bushes to await the 
arrival of another PC or NPC. The individual 
or group in hiding can choose between 75% 
concealment, from where only missile and 
magical attacks are possible, or 90% conceal 
ment, from where only magical attacks are 
possible. The party in hiding receives a +1 
surprise bonus in addition to the bonus listed 
on the Concealment Table * If the party in hid 
ing enters melee combat while in the bushes, 
it becomes 0% concealed to the target PC or 
NPC, but is randomly concealed to other PCs 
or NPCs that may enter the area. 

When an encounter is indicated, the oppos 
ing groups will become aware of one another 
when they are 23-50 (3d 10 + 20) feet apart* 
In many cases, an individual can dart behind a 
tree for cover. At any given time, each charac 
ter is 0-2 rounds of movement away from a 
tree that is large enough to provide cover* 
During each round of such hiding, the charac 
ter can take one of the following actions: hide 
completely (90% cover with +10 AC bonus), 
look around the tree (75% cover with + 7 AC 
bonus), make an attack with a rod, staff, 
wand, crossbow, dagger, or dart (50% cover 
with +4 AC bonus), or make an attack with a 
longbow, shortbow, or magic spell (25% cov 
er with a +2 AC bonus). If more than one 
character hides behind the same tree, the AC 
bonus is reduced by three-fourths for each 
additional character beyond the first. Frac 
tions are rounded down, so that (for instance) 
a +10 AC bonus becomes +2, and a +2 
bonus is entirely negated. 

If one of the opposing parties flees and the 
other follows, then there is a 3 in 6 chance per 
round for the pursuer(s) to sight the quarry. 
Of course, the fleeing party may be tracked by 
the pursuer(s). 


Concealment Table 


RoU 

Conceal* 

AC 

Surprise 

(Id 10) 

ment 

Bonus 

Bonus 

1 

0% 

none 

none 

2-4 

25% 

+ 1 

none 

5-7 

50% 

+2 

+ 1 

8-9 

75% 

+3 

+2 

10 

90% 

+4 

+3 


Event #1: The Desperate Merchant 

On an afternoon when the player characters 
are eating dinner in a tavern, they are 
approached by a stocky, middle-aged man 
named Hiram. He introduces himself as a 
merchant and asks to speak to them. 

Hiram-zero-level commoner: AC 10; MV 
10"; hp4; Str 12, Int 15, Wis 15, Dex 10, Con 
12, Cha 18; tfAT 1; Dmg by weapon type; 
THAC0 20; AL NG. 

Hiram says, "As you may know, a large car 
avan of unfinished rubies and diamonds is 
arriving from the mines in the south. Pm in 
charge of their safety, but I won't sleep until 
the stones are delivered to Furyondy. 

"Right now, my greatest fear is their stor 
age at the lake docks. Six crates of uncut 
rocks are to be stored in the warehouses, 
where they can be loaded immediately onto 
the merchant ships which are sailing in from 
Willip. Because of delays, the stones will be 
locked in the warehouses for two nights. I fear 
that the stones will be stolen by the same 
thieves who've taken several other ship 
ments in the last year." 

The truth is that the real shipment is being 
transported by caravan to a safe haven some 
where west of Leukish, and that the shipment 
in the warehouse is actually a decoy made up 
of gems of lesser value. Hiram, of course, will 
make all attempts to keep this fact a secret. 

The merchant continues, "I need strong 
fighters to guard the shipment, i'll pay each of 
you 50 gold pieces per night, plus 500 more 
for the group if you repel a substantial force of 
thieves." Each nightly wage, he says, will be 
paid on the following day, and the bonus is pay 
able any time the PCs defeat or run off a band 
of thieves and can bring Hiram some evidence 
that a burglary had been attempted. 

If this doesn't seem like sufficient payment 
and the PCs ask Hiram what else he can do, 
the merchant shrugs his shoulders and says 
he can't afford to pay any more. Detect lie or 
similar magic will reveal that Hiram does have 
other resources he isn't revealing. He might 
be coerced or persuaded to say what else he 
has (see "Concluding the Adventure" below), 
but under no circumstances will he include 
anything else in the offer of payment. "I can 
get other men to do the work for that much 
gold," he says, "or my name isn't Hiram 
Sage." 

(Yes, this is the "unnamed sage" the PCs 


were to look for when they got to Leukish. 
When they see Hiram again at the end of the 
adventure, they will find out information that 
will lead them to the next stage of the cam 
paign, and a tip that might offer an 
interesting-and profitable-mission on the 
side*) 

If the player characters accept the job, 
Hiram tells them to go to the warehouse area 
in late afternoon two days from now and look 
for him. Then he says his thanks and leaves. 

Event i/2: First Night of Guard Duty 

When the PCs arrive at the shipyards shortly 
before sundown, they find the place deserted 
except for a couple of nervous-looking guards, 
who are more than pleased to let the PCs take 
over. Dozens of galleys and large merchant 
ships are tied at the docks, and all are seem 
ingly empty and quiet . 

Guards-zero-level fighters (2): AC 7 
(studded leather); MV 12"; hp 5, 4; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-8 (longsword); THACO 20; AL N* 

Soon Hiram appears from a hiding spot 
behind a stack of barrels on the north side of 
Warehouse B. He says, "Welcome, my 
friends! 1 expect the night to be as peaceful as 
the starry sky above our heads. The gems are 
locked in Warehouse B p the one behind me. 
You can put men on the inside, or the outside, 
or some of both. In the morning I'll come to 
check on the shipment and give you your first 
night's pay. Until then, good night!" 

He hurriedly hands the highest-level PC 
fighter a key to the lock on the warehouse 
door, then leaves with equal haste, going 
toward the western city gate, looking in all 
directions until he is out of sight. Then the 
night is silent again. 

If any non-elf PC did not sleep all day or at 
least nap for two hours in the evening, he may 
become drowsy beginning at midnight* Each 
such PC must attempt a ld20 Constitution 
Check at midnight and each hour thereafter; 
failure indicates that the character becomes 
sleepy, giving his roll for surprise a *2 penal 
ty* (Thus, a ranger or a character with alert 
ness proficiency can be surprised 3 in 6 times, 
while others can be surprised 5 in 6 times*) It 
is possible to shake off the effects of drowsi 
ness, by simply succeeding on a subsequent 
check. Of course, any character who gets 
engaged in action will come wide awake and 
stay that way until the next Constitution 
Check is called for. The chance of drowsiness 
for each PC is checked regularly until that PC 
sleeps for at least two hours in a row, or until 
morning, when everyone's term of guard duty 
is over. 

If the PCs happened to go out and have 
some drinks before reporting for work, note 
that a slightly drunk character has a -2 penal 
ty to his Constitution Check (add 2 to the die 


63 










roll), a moderately drunk character has a 
penalty, and a very drunk character has a _ 8 
penalty. Also, a moderately or very drunk 
character who fails the first check in a given 
hour must immediately succeed on a second 
check (with the same modifiers) or pass out 
for 24 or 4-6 hours respectively. Success on 
the second check does not remove drowsi 
ness; it only negates the chance of passing 
out. 

Note: Each of the six crates in Warehouse B 
contains 2140 uncut blue quartz stones, each 
having a base value of 10 g.p. when finished. 
For more information about the contents of 
Warehouse B and the other storage buildings, 
see the "Lake Docks" section below. 

During the first night of guard duty, the PCs 
have three planned encounters: 

1. Shortly after midnight, a rag- clothed beg 
gar is discovered shuffling around outside the 
warehouse, making no attempt to conceal his 
presence. He steps up to the first character 
who comes to investigate and says politely, 
"Could you please spare a few coins for an old 
man?" 

Any good-aligned character who gives 
money to the beggar receives 2 experience 
points for each copper piece in value given; 
but if the PC refuses to give the man anything, 
he forfeits a number of experience points 
equal to the gold piece value of all money and 
jewelry on his person. If an x.p. loss of this 
amount would drop the PC to a lower level of 
experience, he forfeits only enough x.p. to 
drop him to the lowest point of his present 
level. Player characters who are neutral with 
respect to good and evil gain x.p, for c.p. at a 
one-for-one rate if they give the beggar any 
thing, but do not lose x,p. for refusing. 

Beggar-zero-level commoner: AC 10; MV 
8"; hp 1; m 1; Dmg 1; THACO 20; AL NG. 

2. Two hours past midnight, the PCs hear loud 
voices approaching from the southwest, from 
behind the warehouses. There is no surprise 
in this encounter. 

The voices come from three drunken 
marines. Upon arriving at the warehouse, the 
marines claim-truthfully but drunkenly-to 
be the officers who will sail with the gem ship 
ment, and they demand to enter the ware 
house to see that it is safe. If allowed to enter, 
they study the crates inside and then leave 
satisfied. 

If they are refused entrance, the marines 
can be turned away peacefully if any PC 
makes a successful ld2G Charisma Check 
with a - 5 penalty (one attempt per PC). Oth 
erwise the marines can only be stopped by 
melee combat (either to kill or subdue) or if 
one of the marines fails a morale check. 
Because of the alcohol they have consumed, 


the marines fight at -1 "to hit" but with a 
+10% morale bonus. 

Marine captain-8th level fighter: AC 6 
(ring mail plus shield); MV 12"; HD 8; hp 65; 
#AT 3/2; Dmg4-11 { longsword +3); THACO 
14; ALCN. 

Marine lieutenants-3rd level fighters (2): 
AC 7 (ring mail); MV 12"; HD 3; hp 25, 22; 
MT1; Dmg 2-9 (high-quality longs words, +1 
on damage); THACO 18; AL N. 

3. A couple of hours before sunrise, check any 
thief character(s) who are inside the ware 
house, awake, and concentrating on standing 
guard for a chance of hearing a noise. The 
sound is a soft but persistent scratching com 
ing from a distant corner of the warehouse. If 
other PCs are alerted without undue noise or 
commotion, anyone who knows about the 
scratching is not surprised at the start of this 
encounter. All others inside the warehouse 
will be automatically surprised when a group 
of giant rats bursts out of the comer. 

The rats will panic and try to flee if the PCs 
inside the warehouse make any loud noise in 
the process of alerting their comrades. If 
everyone is alerted calmly and quietly, no one 
will be surprised when, all of a sudden, a loud 
crash resounds from the comer-and the rats 
scatter, some of them heading right for the 
PCs, 

The rats will not attack unless threatened 
or cornered-except that any PC inside the 
building who was surprised will be attacked at 
least once. Any PCs who go after the rats, 
inside or outside the warehouse, will be 
attacked by 2-5 of the creatures for a period of 
1-4 rounds, after which any surviving rats will 
try to flee. If the PCs simply let them go, the 
rats will run out escape holes at various places 
along the bottom edges of the walls and scurry 
off in all directions once they get outside. The 
loud crash occurred when the scratching of 
the rats dislodged a crate from its precarious 
perch atop another one. 

Giant tats (16): AC 7: MV 12"; HD 14 hp; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-3; THACO 20; AL N(E); SA 
bite has 5% chance of causing serious dis 
ease. 

In the morning, Hiram arrives. He secretly 
checks the shipment, finds it all in order (the 
crate that fell was not part of Hiram's hoard), 
then pays the agreed-upon amount to each 
PC, (Dealing with the marines does not quali 
fy the PCs for the bonus, since Hiram will 
insist-rightly-that they were not thieves.) 
Afterward he says, "I thank you all for your 
help. Come back again tonight!" 

Event #3: Second Night of Guard Duty 
When the PCs return that night, Hiram greets 
them as before, then leaves. The night is 


uneventful until some time in the wee hours, 
when Hadric and the giants strike. (Check 
each PC for drowsiness before the event gets 
under way.) 

Before leaving the Garden, Hadric casts 
invisibility 10* radius on himself and two hill 
giants. The three of them are able to approach 
close to the warehouse, silently and unseen, 
(At this point, the DM should contrive to have 
at least one PC come outside the warehouse, 
if all of them are inside and inclined to stay 
there.) Hadric sees the player character(s) 
standing guard outside the warehouse and 
decides to try avoiding a fight, since the PC(s) 
do not appear to be low-level mercenaries, 

Hadric casts darkness (which lasts for 2d8 
+ 5 rounds) on the northern side of Ware 
house B, concealing the double doors of the 
building. Immediately the invisible hill giants 
rush, forward, smash down the doors, and 
move to seize six crates from inside. Mean 
while, Hadric casts fog cloud to further 
obscure the northern half of the warehouse. 
Any PCs inside the warehouse one round 
after the doors are broken in attempts a ld20 
Intelligence Check, Success indicates that the 
PC sees a couple of invisible shapes disturbing 
the fog as they move through it. 

Despite anyone's best efforts, the giants 
get in and out too quickly to be stopped or 
attacked. In a single round, they make their 
exit with the crates in hand, Hadric and the 
giants (still invisible) now run southward. If 
there is pursuit, Hadric casts a wall of fog 
behind himself. He and the giants turn to go 
west toward the city gate, staying off the road 
and moving cautiously. They sneak up to the 
gate-and then in a flash, they are past the 
gate guards (who hear thumping footsteps for 
a few seconds but see nothing). The trio 
heads toward the Garden, where Alanc, 
Sabrina, and her henchmen are waiting to help 
them enter at the southern gate (area B on the 
Garden map). 

The illusionist has made one fatal mistake: 
this night he forgot to erase his and the giants' 
tracks. Anyone with tracking proficiency will 
see them immediately (if looking), or can 
make a ld20 Intelligence Check (+3 bonus 
for rangers) to notice them. Hadric's slipper 
prints may not be very visible, but the giants' 
huge, bare footprints are obvious to anyone 
looking for tracks. Because of the size of the 
giants' prints, add 10% to the base chance of 
tracking. Also see the information on tracking 
on page 21 of Unearthed Arcana. 

Leukish Encounter Areas 
In this section are described the areas of the 
city that are likely or certain to he visited by 
the PCs in the course of the adventure. More 
information on all of these areas can be found 
in the appropriate section of Ye Olde City 


64 







Scroll, Area numbers refer to the keyed loca 
tions on the map of Leukish. Letters (for the 
sub-areas within area 22) are keyed to the 
map of the Garden that accompanies the 
adventure text. 

Lake Docks (area 3) 

At night, all the valuables in this area are 
locked in the warehouse buildings (A through 
F) behind the piers, and the warehouses are 
watched by private guards (typically only 2-5 
low-level men-at-arms due to the recent mur 
ders and thefts). On any given night, each 
warehouse holds 4-13 wooden crates or box 
es, each containing (roll ld20): 

1-6 40-80 square yards of silk 

7-13 10-40 square yards of fine rugs 

1445 5-10 jewelry (silver and gold) 

16 3-5 jewelry (gold) 

17-18 20-50 uncut gems (base 10 g.p.) 

19 5-20 uncut gems (base 50 g.p.) 

20 2-12 uncut gems (base 100 g.p.) 

Warehouse B, where the PCs are standing 
guard, is an exception. For the two nights the 


PCs are there, it holds Hiram's property-six 
crates containing gems (see Event §2 
above)-and seven other crates of silk and 
rugs belonging to another merchant. 

Temple of Lydia (area 9) 

The temple is occupied by seven women: 
clerics of 10th level, 6th, 3rd (2), and 2nd (2) t 
plus a 9th level elven bard. At noon each day, 
these women enter a platform on the northern 
side of the temple and play their music with 
lutes, mandolins, lyres, and a harp. The bard 
uses a Fochlucan Bandore , and with it her 
chance to charm is 52%. Only those within lis 
tening range (100 feet on a busy, noisy day) 
are subject to the charm. Those who are not 
charmed do not have bad feelings toward the 
bard. Those charmed will stay to hear the 
entire concert, which lasts for 6-9 turns. A 
typical concert gathers 150-220 listeners, and 
their offerings make an income of 20-80 g.p. 
per day for the temple. 

The clerics cast healing spells in return for 
for money (25 g.p. per hit point restored), 
finely crafted musical instruments, scrolls 


(any spell type), maps, or books. The clerics 
are also skilled sages. Each cleric majors in 
Humanities, with one special category per 
three class levels in either art & music, histo 
ry (as written in the Guide to the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK (r) Fantasy Setting h languages, 
or legends & folklore. 

Governor's Mansion (area 15) 

The inside of the mansion has lofty rooms with 
pillars and painted ceilings, a ballroom, a mas 
sive wooden staircase, and more balconies. 
Each room has an antique painting worth 100- 
600 g.p. Behind the desk in Hadric's upstairs 
bedchamber is a vault with a lethal poison 
spike trap and a sleep gas trap. The vault con 
tains 14 pieces of jewelry (six gold with gems, 
eight wrought silver and gold), 15 gems (base 
500 g.p,), and 5,000 gold pieces. 

Forty soldiers patrol the grounds and stand 
guard within the mansion. Patrols outside the 
building (2-3 in daytime, 3-4 at night) consist 
of five men accompanied by two war dogs on 
chains. 

Hadric also employs a magician who sleeps 

































































in the daytime and is active during the evening 
and night. The magic-user wanders the 
grounds alone, using infra vision to scan the 
area. Each night he casts alarm in the upstairs 
hallway outside the governor's bedchamber. 
In emergencies, he uses message to alert the 
nearest guard, plus hold portal , wizard lock, 
and/or wall of force to stop intruders. He can 
also cast grease to trouble intruders, prefera 
bly on the staircase, where a fall becomes 
likely. He might even cast guards and wards if 
trouble is expected. His ring of invisibility 
keeps him unseen at all times, and in battle he 
serves mainly to harass intruders and aid the 
guards. 

Intruders caught in this area cannot bribe 
their way out of it. They meet Hadric person 
ally, who must have a good reaction check lest 
he immediately condemn the captives to the 
national prison. Otherwise he demands that a 
"lesson" (usually a beating, or worse, 
depending on the PCs' offense) be taught to 
the intruders. 

Mansion Guards-2nd level fighters (40): 
AC 4 (banded mail); MV 12"; HD 2; hp 15-20 
each; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8 (broadswords); 
THACO 19; AL LN. 

War Dogs (6): AC 7; MV 15"; HD 2 +2; hp 
18, 18, 17, 16, 15, 15; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; 
THACO 16; AL N. 

Mansion guardian-5th level magic-user: 
AC 10; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 12; #AT 1; Dmg 14 
(dagger); THACO 20; AL N. Spells (in mem 
ory): alarm , grease, hold portal, message, 
magic mouth , wizard lock, infravision . Items 
carried/worn: scrolls of wall of force and 
guards and wards, plus a ring of invisibility. 

Alchemist Shop (area 18) 

The shop sells all items listed on the Table of 
Potions below. Each day, roll for the chance of 
one flask of each potion being available for 
sale. The alchemist also buys special ingredi 
ents at the listed price. Special ingredients are 
listed on page 116 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide (note that hair and garment threads 
from a saint are not acceptable ingredients). 
Two special ingredients must be added to the 
list therein: minotaur horn for an elixir of 
health , and sylph's hair for a philter of beauty. 

Anyone who wishes to pre-order a potion 
must either pay half m advance or supply the 
special ingredient. Either way, the alchemist 
needs a number of days equal to the ingredi 
ent cost divided by 100 to make the potion. 

In case of theft, the alchemist keeps several 
flasks of poison lying about. Each flask stolen 
has a 2 in 3 chance of being a random potion 
and a 1 in 3 chance of being an ingestive poi 
son, usually Type C (40% chance of being 
noticed as poison; Dmg 40 hp, save at +2 for 
half damage). 

If forced to defend himself, the alchemist 


keeps a dagger, oil of sharpness (+ 6 combat 
bonus), and two potions of fire breath on his 
person. 


Table of Potions 



Base 

Ingredient 

Daily 

Potion 

Cost 

Cost 

Check 

Elixir of health 

2400 

300 

18% 

Extra-healing 

900 

400 

20% 

Healing 

Phi/ter of 

500 

200 

30% 

beauty 

1800 

200 

20% 

Philter of love 
Philter of 

400 

200 

15% 

persuasiveness 

1000 

400 

15% 

Sweet water 

350 

200 

15% 


The City Garden (area 22) 

In the daytime, Alaric and Sabrina are here, 
hidden at the shrine (area G on the garden 
map), while the giants sleep in their tent (area 
F). Four archers sleep in the groves while two 
patrol the area, wandering the edges of the 
groves but not the paths. Any intruder has a 1 
in 8 chance per round of being seen by a wan 
dering archer, who is ready with a longbow 
and an alarm whistle. 

In the evening and night, Alaric and Sabrina 
each have a 25% chance of being outside the 
Garden at any given time-except on robbery 
nights, when both are in the Garden awaiting 
Hadric's arrival. Also, the giants are allowed 
to roam quietly. While two archers sleep, the 
other four patrol the area. Any intruder has a 
1 in 4 chance of encountering an NPC group or 
individual; choose randomly from the two 
giants, four archers, Sabrina, and Alaric. 

Bell traps with trip wires are set here and 
there in the garden. An intruder on a pathway 
has a 1 in 3 chance per round of encountering 
such a trap (and a 100% chance to activate it 
unless it is detected first), or a 1 in 6 chance 
per round in the groves. The bells will attract 
half of all patrolling archers, so that the 
intruder's chance to encounter them is dou 
bled for 3 rounds if the intruder moves away, 
or the chance becomes 100% if the intruder 
remains near the trap. 

If Alaric sees the player characters here, he 
orders Sabrina to attack without mercy and 
fight to kill. See the section entitled "Playing 
Cat-and-Mouse," above, for details on the 
battle with Sabrina and her followers. Mean 
while, Alaric drinks a potion of hill giant con 
trol and sends the giants into combat, first 
with boulders, then dubs. Finally, Alaric him 
self enters the fray and fights to the death-a 
perfect ending to the Test of the Rangers! 

A. Northern Gate 

This entrance, no longer used, is sealed by 
brick and cement, making it part of the wall. 
The top is covered by blades just like those on 


the adjacent walls. 

B. Western and Southern Gates 

These entrances are blocked by strong 
portcullis-type gates (halve all bend bars 
chances). Their tops are bladed similarly to 
the walls. Each gate is held dosed by an iron 
chain anchored in place with two locks. Each 
gate is also trapped so that if it is opened with 
out a key (and without picking the locks), it 
sounds many loud bells which hang inside the 
wall. The noise of these bells will draw 
Sabrina (25%) or 2-3 of the archers (75%). 

C. Western Lane 

This wide, straight path is lined on each side 
with life-sized marble statues of various ani 
mals, each on a marble pedestal. The statues 
are numbered as follows: (1) eagle, (2) boar, 
(3) deer, (4) horse, (5) griffon, (6) owl, (7) 
wolf, (8) mountain lion, (9) bear, and (10) uni 
corn. 

D. Garden Pool 

This 2-foot-deep pool is ringed by curved 
blocks of granite. Neglect has allowed a layer 
of green slime (not the Monster Manual crea 
ture) to line the inside of the stone ring, and a 
thin film of green algae covers the surface. 
The name of Norebo (Suloise god of luck and 
gambling) is inscribed in Old Oeridian on the 
western side of the ring. 

At the bottom of the pool are coins worth a 
total of 19 g,p. Any character who tosses a 
gold piece (nothing cheaper) into the pool and 
says "Praise Norebo" (or a similar chant) has 
a 10% chance of gaining good luck (a +1 
bonus to saving throws and Ability Checks) 
for 24 hours. Anyone who takes coins from 
the pool receives bad luck (a -1 penalty) for a 
number of days equal to the g.p. value of the 
heist. 

At midnight at the end of each Godsday, all 
coins in the pool automatically vanish (tele 
ported to Norebo's treasure vault in the Outer 
Planes). If anyone is standing in the pool at 
that time, ah coins on that person also disap 
pear. 

E. Pond 

Fed by an underground spring, this small pond 
is floored by hard-packed earth under its dear 
waters. The 4-foot-deep liquid is pure and 
drinkable. If it gets contaminated, it will 
cleanse itself in 24 hours as if affected by 
sweet water Swimming in the pond are a 
score of small and harmless algae-eating fish. 

F. Giants' Lair 

Hidden by overhanging trees and surrounding 
bushes here is a 20-foot-square tent of deer 
skins on a wooden frame. Inside are a small 
fire pit, two large piles of bearskins, and sev- 


66 







era] cattie bones strewn about* 

During daylight, the hill giants may be found 
here* They will leave the tent in the daytime 
only if there is trouble or under orders from 
Alaric or Hadric* 

A bag containing 6,430 g*p* is buried 30 feet 
northeast of the tent. Only the giants know of 
its exact location, though Alaric, Sabrina, and 
the archers suspect that the giants' gold is 
hidden somewhere in the area. Make a ld20 
Intelligence Check for any PC who searches 
the ground in the immediate area of the trea 
sure hole. Success indicates that the charac- 
rer notices a place where the ground seems to 
have been dug up and replaced at least once. 

G. Shrine of Ehlonna 
This small, open-front structure frames a 
marble statue of Ehlonna, goddess of the 
woodlands, in the image of a beautiful elven 
ranger holding longbow and dagger, with a 
newborn unicorn at her feet. Leaves and dirt 
are strewn about the floor of the shrine. Oth 
erwise it is dean, and in good condition. 

A good-aligned character who prays to 


Ehlonna for at least one turn receives an anti- 
animal shell (sixth level druid spell) to hostile 
animals and a +10% bonus to tracking 
chances, both for 24 hours. Anyone who will 
fully harms the shrine is enveloped by an 
insect plague (fifth level cleric spell) for 2-5 
rounds, or longer if the harm to the shrine is 
extreme. 

Concluding the Adventure 

This adventure is a success only if the thieving 
operation is destroyed, for no worthy ranger 
would quit after discovering such corrupt 
activities* If the PCs are driven away, leave 
freely, are killed, or are imprisoned before the 
operation is crushed, then all rangers on 
Oerth suffer an 8-hour fever (losing half of 
their strength, wisdom, constitution, cha 
risma, and movement rate during the illness), 
and then permanently lose 1 point of constitu 
tion (plus appropriate hit-point bonuses for 
high constitution)* 

Any loud battles (especially in Hadric's 
home or the City Garden) will draw the atten 
tion of the city soldiers, though the DM is 


advised to allow the PCs to finish their own 
fights before the soldiers arrive to take con 
trol. After the battle in the Garden, the area is 
surrounded by 50 soldiers, while 30 archers 
overlook the Garden from the city wall. How 
ever, the soldiers make no attempt to invade 
the Garden or harm the PCs (unless, of 
course, the soldiers are attacked). 

Soon after the end of the battle in the Gar 
den, Lord KarU arrives. He hears the PCs 1 
story, then inspects the area under heavy 
guard* The presence of hill giants (whether 
dead or alive) and/or bags of gemstones (if 
found in the giants' treasure hole or Hadric *s 
cache) will certainly strengthen his belief in 
the PCs' story. If Hadric is still alive, then the 
governor is summoned immediately. Upon his 
arrival, Hadric claims innocence, but Lord 
Karll orders him to be chained and taken 
away. He then orders the PCs to remain in 
Leukish for one week; this demand is echoed 
by every soldier and honest sailor in the city* 

At the first opportunity on the morning after 
the robbery and the battle in the Garden, the 
PCs are approached by Hiram, who hands 


The Garden Scale: 1 inch = 120 yards N 



67 














them their pay for the night. If the thieving 
operation was destroyed, he gladly tacks on 
the bonus and gives the characters even 
more: 

"You did even more than I would have 
hoped for" he says. "Perhaps you will also 
accept this as a token of my gratitude " He 
pulls out a map showing the location of a sunk 
en fleet of Furyondian ships in Nyr Dyv- 
ships that most probably contain treasure. 
(Hiram got the map from a magic-user who 
discovered the ships with the help of a water 
breathing spell. The magician didn't have 
enough gold to mount an expedition, so he 
made a map and sold it to Hiram.) Scrawled on 
the back of the map, apparently in the magic- 
user's hand, are a few words: "White Alche 
mist in Rauxes-cure for plague?" Hiram has 
no idea what the sentence means. "And even 
if I did ,' r he adds. "I'm not going anywhere 
near a plague." 

During the week that PCs stay as guests of 
the duke, Hadric is put on trial In Government 
Hall. The Duke himself acts as High judge. 


Primarily because of the PCs' testimony, 
Karll declares Hadric guilty and sentences the 
ex-governor to spend the rest of his life in the 
national prison. Hadric is carted away on the 
next prison wagon. 

The duke takes the PCs to a private cham 
ber and says, "You have opened my eyes to 
the corruption in my own land. From now on t I 
shall fight evil within as well as outside the 
Duchy of UmsL I thank you for your efforts " 

In reward, Karll orders a cleric to cast raise 
dead on any PC killed since the group arrived 
in Leukish. Each PC who participated in the 
mission is given 2,000 g.p,, three potions of 
extra-healing, one potion of lull giant strength, 
and two documents of free passage to any 
port on Nyr Dyv. Each is also given a medal 
lion with the symbol of Leukish; this marks 
the medallion's bearer as an Honored Guest in 
Leukish, entitling him to free food and board 
ing in the city, as well as immediate audiences 
with the residing governor. 

An optional reward is the duke's offer to 
hire the PCs to act as secret police for the 


cause of good in the duchy. Payment is 5 g.p. 
per level per week. This offer could lead to 
many adventures as the PCs infiltrate evil 
groups, hunt and capture criminals, ruin plots 
and rebellions, and generally fight crime in the 
duchy. If the PCs accept, they can expect 
strong military and government backing for 
their undercover activities. 

If the PCs attempt to salvage the treasure 
ships by using the map given to them by 
Hiram, they must travel to hex V3-79 on the 
Grey hawk map, then 300 feet beneath the 
lake's surface to the wreckage site. There are 
six ships, each containing 1,000-6,000 g.p. 
value in gold, gemstones, and jewelry. There 
is also a dragon turtle among the sunken 
ships, plus enough giant eels and other dan 
gerous denizens to make the salvage tough 
and costly. Naturally, no NPC is foolish 
enough to assist the PCs, though pirates may 
take an interest once the treasure is brought 
to the surface. The brutal details are left to 
the DM's judgment. 


68 





Rauxes 

The most revealing fact about Rauxes is the 
number of people who live here, because- 
unlike practically every other city in the 
Flanaess-the number is going down. The 
population of this once-illustrious city of the 
Great Kingdom was 41,000 at the last census, 
but nowadays is closer to 35,000. The decline 
in population is due to Overking lvid T s harsh 
rule. More than 1,000 people have been sen 
tenced to death or imprisonment, and a num 
ber far exceeding this amount have fled 
Rauxes. 

Overking hid-13th level magic-user: Int 
17, Con 17 (originally; now down to 12); hp 
43. Items carried: 3 miscellaneous magic 
items, 1 rod, 1 wand. 

Ivid is truly insane, and it is only a matter of 
time before his waning constitution gives out. 
He has contracted a debilitating disease, over 
looked by his physician, which decreases his 
constitution at a rate of 1 point per year; for 
every passing year a system shock roll must 
be made to see if Ivid survives. In the mean 
time, Ivid, his new court Wizard Karoolck, 
and Ivid's "Black Legion" of chaotic evil fight 
ers rule all subject lands with an iron fist. All 
good beings are suspected by Ivid of being in 
league with his enemies (The Iron League), 
and are maltreated-thus the large emigra 
tions to date. 

The city rests on the plain north of the fork 
of the Flanmi and Imeda rivers. Surrounding 
lands are farmed and recently have been used 
to graze the many warhorses which are des 
tined for the field of battle either in the north 
or south. Rauxes was once a great city, and 
some vestiges of its old splendor remain, but 
on the whole little of its past glory is in evi 
dence today. Roads are not kept up, and many 
of the poor are forced-under penalty of con 
fiscation of property-to meet a "stone tax," 
which requires imbedding flagstones in all 
roads fronting one's own establishment or 
dwelling. The mighty walls are also crum 
bling, and the resources and manpower which 
at one time were available to alleviate this 
problem no longer exist. 

Flooding has been a major problem in 
recent years. The water table has been at an 
all-time high for the last few years and, in 
combination with the swelling tributaries and 
the lack of resources allocated to deal with 
this, has contributed to a rising incidence of 
catastrophes (bridge washouts, wall founda 
tions giving way, etc.). Due to the misma 
nagement of the sewers by inept lackeys 
appointed by Ivid to deal with the problem* 
disease has now spread throughout the city 
and is taking a frightful toll; the monthly birth 
rate is 5% lower than the death rate. At the 


time that "Down With the Wizard" (Adven 
ture HI) begins, the base chance for a city res 
ident to contract a disease is doubled (4%) and 
crowding and filth (in both categories) per 
centages are tripled (3% respectively); expo 
sure to carrier and polluted water are doubled 
(20% and 10% respectively). Ivid's last Min 
ister of Engineering was beheaded for for 
warding a plan to control the flooding which, 
to be realized, would have required gold piec 
es equal to the amount needed to field three 
horse regiments. 

War has been a steady diet of the Over- 
king's realm for several years. Allies are few, 
but include the Herzog of South Province, the 
See of Medegia, certain tribes of humanoids 
to the north (those crushed in actions 
between North Province and Bone March, 
etc*, and then reorganized) and certain fac 
tions of the Sea Barons, though the latter-as 
a whole-are quite untrustworthy. Ivid has 
become more obsessed with extending his 
lands in order to form the "Greater Aerdi 
Empire*' ever since his declaration of war 
against Almor and Nyrond. The Herzog's sub 
sequent blunting of the armies of the Golden 
League (Nyrond, Almor and those countries 
comprising the Iron League; see Guide to the 
World of Greyhawk, "An Overview of Political 
Divisions") has added only fresh fuel to his 
monomania. The aforementioned battle(s) 
transpired after the events detailed in Tl-4 
(The Temple of Elemental Evil) and spanned 
two years, ending in a minor strategic victory 
for Ivid's field army under the leadership of 
the Herzog, and seeing the withdrawal of 
Almorian and Nyrondese armies to the west 
of the Harp Riven 

Though the Herzog failed to crush the 
forces opposing him, and because of this was 
forced to postpone indefinitely the siege of 
Irongate, the victory strengthened the sag 
ging morale of his troops. However, the war 
has left both sides incapable of anything but 
reorganization. Ivid's coffers are all but strip 
ped, and Nyrond J s political machine has begun 
to maneuver the king toward more peaceful 
dealings with Ivid. On the home front, Ivid's 
popularity is at an all-time low despite battle 
field gains. This unpopularity stems from his 
hard-line tactics (as mentioned) against the 
Great Kingdom's good factions, and continues 
spreading among the people, who must now 
recognize his newly sanctioned state worship 
of "Baalzy," the so-called god of prosperity. It 
is known in informed circles, however, that 
this " religion" is a front for the worship of an 
archfiend named BaaeL All other religions are 
tolerated, but are taxed so heavily that parish 
ioners are forced by closure of their original 
worship places to choose new gods, or par 
take of services in their own homes. The lat 
ter is a violation of law if a "worship tax" is not 


paid. A league known as the Dawnsbreak Clan 
had set its sights on overthrowing Ivid, 
though nothing ever came of this. Ivid's 
cohorts have kept fear in the minds of men, 
expelling any thoughts of revolution. 

Ivid recently replaced his court wizard 
Xaene with a man named Karoolck, actually 
an archmage devoted to Baael. Xaene has 
vowed vengeance for his displacement, but 
nothing has been heard of him for over a year 
now. It is thought that Karoolck intends to 
replace the "Black Legion" with beings of his 
own ilk, possibly allies summoned from the 
Homed Society. This move toward more 
ordered events, albeit evil ones, has a better 
chance of stimulating a rebuilding of the Great 
Kingdom. Ivid's dependence upon Karoolck 
grows more pronounced as he himself weak 
ens (see above), and it is suspected in some 
circles that the archmage has been guiding the 
Great Kingdom's internal machinery for the 
last six months. 

Rauxes Map Locations 

1. North Gate 

2. Guard House 

3. Red Unicom Inn 

4. Armory 

5* Barry's Gambling House 
6* Silverhawks Tavern 

7. Mentser the Merchant 

8. The Hawthumes (noble line) 

9. Tun's Livery 

10. Golden Grain Tavern 

11. Crossroads Inn 

12. Pyther's Boarding House 

13. Shops 

14. The Prancing Dryad (music hall/tavem) 

15. Shellbone's Inn 

16. Zamara's House of Pleasure 
17* Houses for rent 

18. The Golden Girdle (fine lady's apparel) 

19. Bellax's Meats 

20. Temple to Boccob 

21. Harckoan's Store (dealer/merchant) 

22. ^rehouses 

23. Kendor's Jewelry 

24. Jakkur's Anything Shop 

25. East (Watch) Gate 

26. The Five Torches Inn 

27. The Dancing Fool Inn 

28. The Black Stallion (tack* harness, etc.) 

29. Warrel's Weapon Shop 

30. West (New) Gate 

31* Kyree's Cooler (underground tavern) 

32. Sages Guild 

33. Telvorthin's (tailor) 

34. Nast's Merchant Company 

35. Bronzer's Metal Goods (hardware) 

36. Ugurah's Furniture (woodcrafts) 

37* Opan's Pawn Shop 

38* Kathor's Boarding House 









1 

¦ m 

¦ 

-- i. 


m ' 

78 


1 

¦ 

> 

3 *v 

L \ - 

¦ m 

* 

¦ 














39. Tower of the "Gray One" (wizard) 

40. The Blue Dog (tavern) 

41. The Two-Fister (tavern) 

42. NaphaTs Inn of the Empty Room 

43. Wrestling/dueling yards 

44. Crooked Pye's Money Shop 

(lender/changer) 

45. Palace compound gate and Guardhouse 
46* Temple to "Baaizy" 

47. Captain's Quarters (horse, foot, archers) 

48. Supplies 

49. Palace of Over king Ivid the Great 

50. Barracks {archers, foot, horse) 

51. Tower of Karoolck. Archmage 

of the Court 

52. Tower of the Knights of Doom 

53. Tower of the Dead (royal crypts) 

54. Stables, armory, servant houses 

55. Blackfort (town guard, 2 regiments 

of light horse) 


56. Vfest (Old) Gate 

57. The Lion's Roar (tavern) 

58. Morabar's Leather Goods (boots, etc.) 

59. Philster's Inn of the Bird Dog 

60. The Iron Boot (soldiers' tavern) 

61. House of Arranas (noble line) 

62. Palum's Perfumes and Soaps 

63. Balabab's Merchant Company 

64. Bathhouse 

65. Qltary Park 

66. Zelizar's House ... of ill repute 

(tavern, etc.) 

67. Tinkers Row 

68. The Plump Hen (restaurant) 

69. Goblin-tooth Inn 

70. Yar's House of Games (gambling, loans) 

71. Flatch's %apon Shop (all types) 

72. Narlond's Tower (alchemist/herbalist) 

73. Debenarr, mercenary captain (HQ) 

74. The Gilded Goat (best inn and 

food in Rauxes) 


75. Calor's Roost (tavern) 

76. Hibbin's Store (dry goods) 

77. The Lance (inn for fighters) 

78. Ostel's House of Viands (restaurant) 

79. House of Garrych (noble family) 

80. Fennym's ^rehouse & Storage 

81. The Blue Dagger (tavern) 

82. The Pit (to settle tavern challenges) 

83. Gimmee's Store (outfitters 

of demi- humans) 

84. Cabbal's Merchant House 

85. Marryut's Inn of the "Helpful Hand" 

86. Dark Dragon (unsavory tavern) 

87. Tower of Marriock (dark elf wizard) 

88. Ertharah's Boarding House 

89. The Lone ttfolf (inn for all comers) 

90. "Halfhigh T s" Mead and Ale (best 

beverages in Rauxes) 

91. City stores, administrative offices, 

reserve army units (12 regiments) 

92. Military compound; HQ of Town 

Guard eastern branch 


71 








DOWN WITH THE WIZARD 


DM's Introduction 

This adventure is designed for a party of char 
acters whose total of experience levels is in 
the range of 31-45, Four to six characters are 
preferred; and since this is the Test of the 
Wizards (note below, and also note the NPC 
Narlond in the section entitled The Mirrors of 
Fate), the party should contain at least one 
magic-user, though this need not be so. 

The party arrives in Rauxes following a clue 
that the "White Alchemist" has information 
concerning the plague. This is, in essence, a 
true statement, and the man referred to as 
the White Alchemist-named Narlond (see 
location 72 on the Rauxes map in Ye Olde City 
Scroll) ~c an be found at his three-story tower. 
There is a 1 in 4 chance that any resident 
approached and questioned will know of 
Narlond as the "White Alchemist" and wiH 
say (perhaps for a price) how to find his tower. 

When the PCs arrive at Rauxes, they notice 
immediately that it is worse off than any other 
place they have visited recently. People are 
collapsed in the streets; cowled figures carry 
stretchers and pull carts filled with the sick or 
dying. People avoid the PCs as they pass, 
casting furtive glances in their direction and 
making signs in the air to ward off evil spirits. 
The suffering is great here. 

Refer to page 13 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide to determine whether the PCs get 
infected. Many city officials and others "in the 
know" are sure that the disease running 
through Rauxes is not the "plague" they've 
heard rumors about, but is "merely" a malady 
brought on by faulty management of the 
Rauxes sewers. However, a lot of the regular 
citizenry who have contracted the fever have 
associated it with the plague they've heard 
rumors about, and therefore believe that their 
lives are doomed. As a consequence, there 
has been much true chaos here for weeks, and 
martial law will be enforced soon if the riots 
and spontaneous suicides and outbreaks of 
crime do not cease. 

The ailment is not dangerous to most peo 
ple, but in a city the size of Rauxes that still 
means a lot of folks are having trouble. If any 
PCs contract the disease, use this information 
to determine severity and duration of the ill 
ness: The effect of the disease begins 5-8 
days after someone gets infected and lasts for 
a number of days equal to 20 + 1-6 minus the 
victim's constitution score. The victim loses 1 
point of strength and 1 point of constitution 
upon the outbreak of the disease, and another 
point from each score on every third day 
thereafter (day four, day seven, etc,). Each 
time a point loss occurs, the victim also incurs 
a cumulative penalty of -1 "to hit" and -2 
(or -20%) on an attempt at any other physi 
cal acion (such as bend bars or a thieving skill). 
If either ability score reaches zero, the char 


acter dies. 

If the disease persists for longer than 
twelve days (which it will in any victim with an 
original constitution score of 7 or less), the 
victim becomes first terrified (of dying) and 
then delirious, and may (depending upon his 
intelligence and wisdom scores) do something 
irrational and harmful. At the end of the pre 
determined duration, the fever breaks abrupt 
ly, and the character regains full health (aU 
scores back to normal) in a number of hours 
equal to 20 minus his normal constitution 
score. 

Visiting Narlond 

After some time (DM's discretion, or PCs* 
preference, if they're in a hurry) spent walk 
ing the streets and seeing the city, the PCs 
come to Narlond's stone tower. Above the 
doorway is a metal plaque inscribed with the 
words "Narlond's Alchemy and Herbals," 
Camped outside the tower are four ragged 
individuals-citizens, no doubt. The group 
notices an open shutter on the second story of 
this three-story tower as they approach the 
door. It closes after a second. A knock on the 
door brings a response from one of the people 
sitting nearby: "He won't answer it" He then 
looks at his companions, who only murmur 
unintelligibly. "We T ve been here for two 
days." He looks away just as the door opens. 

In the doorway stands a man in white robes. 
His hair is slicked back, and his black eyes are 
very alert. Just then the man who spoke to 
you jumps up and in a demanding voice 
shouts, "We was here first; cure us, wizard!'" 
As if in answer to that, an armored man of 
great stature springs forward from the 
shadows of the hallway. He brandishes a spear 
at the man in rags. After a tense moment the 
citizens depart, hurling curses behind them as 
they limp off. 

If the PCs interfere with the armored 
guard, the alchemist intervenes by promising 
to see the citizens after the party departs. 
This satisfies them, and their spokesperson 
sits down. In either case, the PCs are invited 
inside. After becoming comfortable in a high- 
backed, velvet-lined chair situated near a 
table that the PCs are either sitting on or 
standing next to, Narlond tells them that he is 
aware of the reason for their visit and informs 
them that he can assist the party in some small 
way. 

"It is the curse of Xaene, the Overking's 
former court wizard" he exclaims. "Xaene 
has disappeared, and is rumored to be dead, 
but I know of his general location, and of those 
people you must seek to help you in finding his 
place of hiding so that he may be destroyed. 
Until then," he says with a sigh, "nothing can 
be done to help those suffering-though they" 
(he tilts his head in the direction of the door 


way, indicating the four supplicants on his 
doorstep) "would not have believed this sto 
ry, notwithstanding my sincerity and true feel 
ings" 

If asked to explain further, or if nothing is 
interacted by the characters, Narlond says, 
"Go to the Blue Dagger Tavern; in back of it is 
a hovel lived in by Barley, a sculler for the tav 
ern. His friends will be there, no doubt- 
sewer-men all. Below the hovel is the 
entry way into the sewers. Barley knows the 
tunnels well. He'll guide you-to a point. Pay 
him handsomely; he deserves more of life." 

At this point Narlond excuses himself. If 
asked for assistance he abstains, explaining 
that it would be too dangerous for him as a citi 
zen to enter the sewers, (A recently enacted 
law prohibits any person from entering and 
then leaving the sewers, since many city offi 
cials suspect that the sewers are a source of 
disease. Confiscation of all properties and a 
stiff fine (1,000 g.p.), plus possibly a 10-year 
prison term, is the penalty for disobeying this 
edict, Narlond will relate all of the above infor 
mation if pressed for reasons.) After brushing 
aside any other questions he dismisses the 
party, wishing them luck. 

Important Note: Narlond has been replaced 
by Morgorath, and it is the entity that they 
treated with, not Narlond himself. Morgorath 
will follow the party-while using his magic to 
stay hidden and undetected-and influence 
events if things get out of hand. He will help 
twice in life-and-death situations, preferring 
to save less than 50% of the party at those 
times. He will save the entire party once (this 
forfeits the two aforementioned saves) if it 
appears that they will be slain if he doesn't 
intervene. He will not aid the PCs in a con 
frontation with Xaene, believing they are suf 
ficiently prepared for the wizard if they've 
survived until that point. For more on 
Morgorath as Narlond, see The Mirrors of 
Fate elsewhere in this book. 

If the PCs want to proceed immediately 
toward the Blue Dagger, they will head south 
three blocks and then west along Viper Row, 
heading for the alleyway in back of the Blue 
Dagger. After a short time they arrive at Bar 
ley's hovel, a broken-down collection of odds 
and ends resembling a square structure. 
Refuse is everywhere around it, and three 
individuals are kneeling by a collection of the 
stuff just outside its doorway. They notice the 
PCs' approach, and the newcomers can see 
fatigue, bitterness, and suspicion in the citi 
zens' eyes. The men stop digging through the 
awful pile and face your direction. One gan 
gling fellow looks a bit scared, as if he might 
run away. 

The tall, scared fellow is Barley. He is afraid 
of being caught with items salvaged from the 
sewers and condemned to the northern labor 


72 



camps. If the PCs go about introducing them 
selves in a cautious manner, stating their busi 
ness and adding gold to the formula, the three 
men become hospitable, but remain cautious 
nonetheless. For the princely sum of 10 g.p., 
Barley will guide the PCs to an area where, as 
he puts it, "strange sounds have been cornin' 
from" 

If the PCs meet Barley's price, or pay him 
even more than 10 g.p., then he guides them 
into the hovel He closes the curtain-door, 
kneels on the dirt floor, and starts digging with 
his hands. A moment later, he pulls on an iron 
ring he has uncovered in the center of the 
floor He grunts, looking at his guests. One 
turn later (or in half that time, if any PCs assist 
with the digging) the edges of a round stone 
slab are uncovered. 

"Don't use this way down too often," Bar 
ley explains, "but it's the quickest way to get 
where we're goin\" 

The slab can be lifted away from the hole in 
one round by four characters (maximum) who 
have a total of at least 40 strength points. Fail 
ing that, the slab can be pulled and pushed 
away from the opening (requiring only a bit of 
lifting) in a total of 4-6 rounds, depending on 
how many PCs help. 

When the slab is moved aside, a waft of 
putrid air infiltrates from below, replacing the 
now welcome stench of the hovel with a nau 
seating rankness. At this point, the DM 
should establish who is carrying light 
sources-the underground adventure is about 
to begin: 

Hereafter, text enclosed in boxes is meant 
to be read to the PCs at the appropriate time 
(and, sometimes, under certain conditions). 
Sentences enclosed in parentheses inside 
boxed text are incidental information for the 
DM, which may or may not be revealed to the 
PCs. 


After descending a 40-foot ladder, you step 
off onto a 20-foot-square landing with a set 
of 5-foot-wide service stairs going down. 
(If no light source w r as provided by the par 
ty, Barley claims a lantern from a nearby 
wall, taking it from a peg and lighting it.) 
The light reveals a large rectangular tun 
nel, approximately 30 feet wide and 20 feet 
high, leading off to the east and west. Bar 
ley descends the stairs for about 100 feet 
and then steps into water, saying, "It isn't 
that deep here, but stay to the sides-the 
current can be tricky." He sloshes ahead, 
past offal, other refuse, and an occasional 
dead body which bobs by. 

After several minutes of proceeding 
down twisting and turning tunnels, you 
come to a dead end smaller than the form 


er passages. Barley pauses here and 
points up: "That's w T here the noises come 
from; and it beats me why that alchemist 
finds it interesting," Barley turns to leave. 
It is apparent that you are now on your 
own, (Barley will faint and/or be nothing 
but a hindrance if the party forces him to 
come along.) 


Dungeon Notes for the DM 
Xaene, now a lich, makes use of the following 
area. The passages and rooms comprising this 
dungeon are damp and musty. Molds and oth 
er incrustations are everywhere. The floors 
are slimy in places, and anyone running at 
faster than normal speed around corners or 
attempting to stop after moving fast will skid 
and fall 50% of the time. The ceilings are 20 
feet high and are rough, A thin layer of 
bedrock supports the groundwork above. 
Walls are composed of granite and are old. 
The principal occupants of this dungeon are 
undead-chosen for this test by Istus because 
of most magic-users' particular dislike of 
these sorts of creatures. Xaene stays in com 
munication with these creatures through the 
use of undead-like bats. These creatures, 
called bachs, are very rare even on the Nega 
tive Material Plane and are not fully compre 
hended by beings of this plane. Their 
twitterings are understood by all undead 
except skeletons and zombies. See room 5, 
below, for their statistics. 


As Barley moves out of sight you look up 
and note a large hole on the south wall, 5 
feet from the ceiling. It is a 10-foot climb to 
its base. 


Characters looking in the hole note a 10-foot- 
wide passage leading off to the south. (See the 
text for room 1, below. Ask for a marching 
order and note which PCs have light sources. 
The undead here will react to light and other 
Positive Material Plane emanations within 
their line of sight and will seek out the sources 
of such emanations.) Highly intelligent undead 
will attempt to inform Xaene (see room 30) 
about intruders 50% of the time. But note 
room 28, a place some creatures-even 
undead-might have a tough time circumvent 
ing. 

Dungeon Encounters 
1, Entry Corridor 


Your light reveals a dank and musty corri 
dor leading to the south and then branching 
southeast and southwest, A noticeable 
stench permeates the area. 


The corridor leads to room 2. If the charac 
ters listen in complete silence, they will hear 
moaning and shuffling noises ahead. Scratch 
ing sounds are also heard, and if an elf or a 
ranger pays dose attention, one might guess 
(50% chance for each such character, one 
time only) that the latter sounds come from 
inside the rocklike projection ahead-the wad 
area forming the southerly, curved surface of 
the brandling corridor, 

2. Ghoul Roost 

Characters rounding either side of the 
rough-hewn corridor here are surprised on a 
ld6 roll of 1-4 unless they specifically stated 
they were looking upward and are using light 
sources to aid their vision. The ghouls 
above-which are in a dug-out area that 
extends beyond the range of a normal light 
source-jump down upon unwary victims. 


Several ghouls jump upon you from what 
apparently are roosting holes high on the 
walls. You hear more noises-guttural 
sounds mixed with slave rings and high- 
pitched titterings, the latter sounding 
much like noises small children would 
make upon receiving their dessert. 


Ghouls (12): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 10; 
MTS; Dmg 1-3/1--3/1-6; THACO 16; AL CE; 
SA paralyzation by touch; SD immune to sleep 
and charm. 

The ghouls attack and pursue adventurers 
until they are themselves slain. Initially 3 
ghouls jump per side of the column, intercept 
ing characters just at the midpoint of each cor 
ridor, before these turn in new directions (SE 
and SW, respectively). Jumping ghouls 
receive a +2 to their initial "to hit" rolls in 
addition to any advantages due to surprise 
(DM T s option). Impacting ghouls inflict 1-8 
points of pummeling damage with their feet 
(but these hits have no chance to paralyze), 
and then engage in normal attack routines in 
the same round. Ghouls that miss intended 
targets with their pummeling attacks do not 
get their claw and bite attacks immediately; 
they hit the floor (taking no damage) and 
spend the rest of the first round of combat 
regaining their balance and getting back to 
their feet. Additionally, ghouls fighting within 
the immediate vicinity of their roost gain +1 
on initiative rolls for the next two rounds after 
jumping, because of dose quarters and their 
utter disregard for conventional attack rou 
tines. 















3* Guards and Wards 


All of a sudden, the area in front of you is 
filled with a thick mist, A brief examination 
determines that the mist itself is not harm 
ful. As you move into the cloud, you can't 
help wondering how you're going to keep 
from getting lost in the stuff. 


A guards and wards spell affects this area. The 
spell has been reduced in area of effect and tem 
porarily fixed in place by the application of a lim 
ited wish spell (it will last another 33 days), The 
spell is centered on the south wall of room 4; its 
effect extends 90 feet in every direction, encom 
passing all of room 6 to the south and extending 
north to the edge of room 3. 

4, Gust of Wind 


You enter an area containing mist which 
swirls slightly, drifting in a southerly direc 
tion. After a moment you hear the sound of 
whistling wind to your south. 


There is nothing in this room except the mist. 
Note the guards and wards information given in 
room 3. A gust of wind blows from west to east 
across the spell's area of effect (making the 
whistling noise), covering the entire length of 
the corridor leading in those directions out of this 
area. All exposed flames (torches, etc.) are 
blown out immediately, and flames that are 
somewhat protected (as in a lantern) have a 80% 
chance of being extinguished in every round 
while they remain in this area. 

5. Bach Post 

Bachs are stationed here. Upon noting the 
party's advance out of the mist, they fly to 
warn the wraiths in room 9. 

Bachs (8): AC 7; MV 3 r 718"; HD 1; hp 3; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1- 4; THACQ 17; AL CE; SD 
turned as a wight, immune to sleep and charm 
and similar mind-affecting spells and powers. 

There is a 50% chance that one bach will fly 
to warn Xaene of the intrusion (see the text 
for room 28 when the bach reaches that 
point). Unless magically searching ahead of 
them, party members do not note the bachs. 

6. Zombie Room 


As you grope your way through the mist, 
you enter a room. The south wall falls 
away-and before you, moving through 
the mist, are many humanoidlike shapes. A 
faint shuffling noise is all you hear. 


em wall is sounded. 

Zombies (30): AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9 
each; MT 1; Dmg 1-8; THACO 16; AL N; SD 
some spell immunity. 


You feel, rather than hear, a strange sound, 
which sets your mind tingling and for a 
moment paralyzes your thoughts. After a 
short time, the sound and the feeling 
recede. 


The sound was made by the Gong of the Neg 
ative Plane , an item that works along the 
same lines as a dog whistle. The noise 
heard-not loud, but piercing-slows the 
reaction time of non-Negative Material Plane 
creatures for 1-3 rounds each time it is sound 
ed (*~1 or -10% penalty to any action or 
attempt involving quickness or speed). Its pri 
mary function is to summon all undead within a 
100-foot radius: these move at full speed to 
the gong, stopping to attack creatures only if 







WmM. 




¦y. 


nWjmV* 






: yyyyyyyfc >:¦: 

;v+v'vh 



ffl 


Characters note that these shapes shuffle 
toward them-slowly. As they do so, a gong 
located near the central portion of the north- 


74 







































































these attempt to intervene with them. In this 
case only the creatures in rooms 2, 5, 7, 8, 
and 9 react to the summons; the surrounding 
stone restricts the sonarlike vibrations from 
affecting further undead within the gong's 
range. 

The zombies move to engage the PCs as 
they enter this room. When and if the wraiths 
and bachs arrive, the former engage any 
opponent near them while the latter fly 
toward magic-users, attempting to despoil 
spells. Ghouls (if any remain available from 
room 2) melee where possible. The zombies 
have orders to fight with their backs to the 
south, guarding the passageway in the south 
western comer of this room. If more than half 
of them are killed, two zombies will head for 
the gong to sound it again (and repeatedly 
thereafter, if given the opportunity), while the 
remainder will shuffle into the 5-foot-wide 
passageway single-file and make a stand 
there, forcing the PCs to dispose of them one 
at a time. Undead arriving during this "holding 
action"' might have an excellent opportunity to 
attack the party from the rear or flank, 

7. Bach Post 

See room 5 for particulars. These bachs, if 
disturbed, will fly to warn the wraiths in room 

8. If one flies off to alert Xaene, see room 28 
and room 30 for events thereafter. 

8. Wraith Room- -West 


The corridor, which had been widening for 
the past few minutes, now opens into a 
large area-perhaps a room. 


Characters are surprised on a ld6 roll of 1-3 if 
the wraiths were alerted by the bachs from 
room 5. Otherwise, normal surprise checks 
apply. The wraiths, if alerted, are evenly 
divided and hiding near the two entry corri 
dors. They rush out and attack anyone expos 
ing themselves. The bachs will not engage in 
combat in this instance, staying airborne and 
out of reach of melee weapons. They will flee 
if the wraiths are destroyed, attempting to 
report this news to Xaene. 

Wraiths (8): AC 4; MV 12'724"; HD 5+3; 
hp 24; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; THACO 15; AL LE: 
SA energy drain; SD silver weapons or better 
to hit, limited immunity to mind-affecting 
spells, poison, etc. 

Unless summoned by the gong at #6, or if 
they are attacked from outside the confines of 
their room-'in which case they will then pur 
sue their antagonists and fight to the death- 
the wraiths will not leave this area. They have 
no treasure nor possessions. 


9. Wraith Room-East 

See room 8 for particulars. Note in addition 
that hidden in a small niche (1-foot-diameter 
round hole on the south wall covered by 
rocks) is a ring of spell storing containing the 
cleric spells augur>; spiritual hammer, nega 
tive plane protection, and heal. 

10. Bone Heap 


In your first good look at this chamber, you 
notice a heap of bones extending as far as 
your light source can reach. The pile is at 
least two feet deep, sometimes deeper, 
over the entire floor of the area. The lack 
of any significant odor is distinctly apparent 
here. 


The bones are what's left from many of the 
meals eaten by the undead creatures on this 
level. (The denizens are not being tidy, but 
sensible: they dispose of bones here instead 
of leaving them lying around in the corridors 
for zombies to trip over.) The lack of odor 
should suggest that the bone marrow itself 
has been consumed-a testimony to the vora 
cious appetites of the creatures that did the 
consuming. PCs attempting normal move 
ment into or through this pile cause lots of 
noise from the clinking and shifting of bones. 
The black pudding in room 11 will be fore 
warned by these noises. If PCs wish to cir 
cumvent the pile noiselessly, they must use 
spells, devices, and/or abilities that would 
enable them to do so. The bone pile extends 
to the room's entrances, but not into the cor 
ridors beyond. The pile contains nothing of 
interest; anything notable that might have 
been dumped there has either been given in 
tribute to the intelligent black pudding in room 
11 or was appropriated by Xaene, as the occa 
sion warranted. It would take the party sev 
eral hours of searching to ascertain that there 
is absolutely no treasure here. 

11. Intelligent Black Pudding 

If the pudding has been alerted by noise from 
room 10, roll ldlQ. On a result of 1-3, it lies in 
wait just outside the room in the southwest 
corridor; 4-6, it has summoned the wights 
(room 12), and all the foes are clustered 
around the northwest entrance, ready to 
ambush PCs when they enter; on 7-9, the 
spectres (room 13) are present instead of the 
wights; and on a result of 10, both the wights 
and the spectres are part of the ambush. On a 
small, linger like appendage, it bears a ring of 
mirror images (as the spell, with 20 charges). 
It implements a charge and then attempts to 
slay the party one at a time, choosing to attack 
magic-users first, clerics/paladins/cavaliers 
next, and all others last. If it deems the battle 


lost, it attempts to flee to room 18 and join the 
vampire there. 

Intelligent Black Pudding: AC 6; MV 6"; 
HD 10; hp 58; Int 9; #AT 1; Dmg 3-24; 
THACO 10; AL CE; SA dissolves wood and 
metal; SD blows, cold and lightning do not 
harm. Located on the pudding is a bone case 
containing a waterskin (10 draughts) of some 
putrid- smelling liquid. 

At some point during or after their battle 
with the pudding, the PCs will notice a silver 
coffer and a 4-foot-high, 2-foot-diameter 
lidded barrel standing next to each other along 
the southeast wall of the room. 

Any occupants of rooms 12 and 13 that 
were not here upon the PCs" arrival will be in 
transit one round after the combat begins, 
attracted by the commotion and will arrive 2-5 
rounds thereafter (some in each round). 

If all the foes are dispatched or the room is 
otherwise cleared, it will take a careful party 
at least three rounds to investigate the barrel 
and coffer, and more if they are proceeding 
circumspectly. 


Your search reveals nothing but ordinary 
water in the barrel and grain in the coffer. 
The water does appear slightly unhealthy- 
looking, though, and the grain is colored 
with alternating ribbon-like blacks and tans 
as if each seed had been individually paint 
ed. 


As will become apparent if appropriate magic 
is employed, the grain and the water are 
enchanted. Both were gifts bestowed upon 
Xaene-and entrusted by the latter to the 
guardianship of the black pudding, a creation 
of Nerul1 the Reaper, When a single grain is 
placed in the barrel it grows in six hours to 
become a random undead creature (of less 
than 8 HD); this process can be performed 
once per day. The seed "pollutes"' the water 
for one hour immediately after it is immersed, 
changing the liquid into something different: 
one swallow of it taken by an evil or Negative 
Plane creature will heal one hit point per 
round, up to as many rounds as the creature 
has hit dice. The effect is noncumulative if 
multiple doses are taken rapidly; the first dose 
must run its course of rounds/hit dice before 
the second draught begins to take effect. 
Bathing in the liquid cures all damage in one 
round, but absorbs the barrel's curative 
powers until another seed-undead is made 
(only one can be created per day). This fluid 
can be removed from the barrel and stored for 
later use; obviously, this is the liquid in the 
waterskin carried by the black pudding. 

Any non-evil creature or character experi 
ences the opposite effect if the liquid is drunk; 
each draught will remove hit points, 1 per 


75 




























round up to the number of hit dice of the drink 
er, and partial or full immersion in the liquid 
causes an immediate drop to zero hit points, 
followed by death within one round if the bath 
er is not pulled out of the liquid. 

These containers, although not magical in 
themselves, are considered minor artifacts 
for purposes of how easily they can be 
destroyed. (The water was just used a few 
hours ago, so immediate experimentation will 
not produce meaningful results*) The water 
can be poured out, but the barrel will be 
replenished one day later; the same is true for 
the seeds and the coffer. The barrel and coffer 
can be taken from this room, and any charac 
ter of good alignment would want this accom 
plished at the very least. The coffer's 
monetary sale value is 3,000 g.p. 

12. Wight Room 

Wights (10): AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4 + 3; hp 
18each; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; THACO 15; AL LE; 
SA energy drain; SD hit only by magic or sil 
ver weapons, immune to mind-affecting 
spells, poisons, etc. 


If the PCs somehow arrive here without 
causing the wights to leave this chamber earli 
er, then they are attacked as soon as the first 
PC enters the room. This is a dead-end cham 
ber containing nothing noteworthy except a 
pile of corpses and bones in the southern pan 
of the area. If one PC searches the area for six 
turns, he will discover 11-20 arrows +3 
among the carnage. (Halve the searching time 
for each additional PC who helps, but the 
search will take one turn in any case.) 

13. Spectre Den 

Spectres (4): AC 2; MV 15" /30"; HD 7 + 
3; hp 27 each; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; THACO 13; 
AL LE: SA energy drain; SD only hit by +1 or 
better weapon. 

If the PCs arrive here without causing the 
spectres to leave the room earlier: 

You see four prisoners lashed to the south 

wall. All appear starved and near death. 

Only one of the humans moves, and it is 


only to look up at you. Upon doing so the 
man stares, as if in a dream, then looks 
excited for a moment. He croaks some 
thing unintelligible and motions to his 
bonds, licking his parched lips. He is 
apparently suffering from acute dehydra 
tion. 

These figures are the spectres in semi- 
corporeal form, disguised (with garments) as 
humans. If one PC comes within 10 feet of one 
of the spectres, all of the monsters will aban 
don their disguises and rush to attack. 

If the spectres have left the room, it con 
tains nothing but a collection of tattered cloth 
ing strewn about the floor. 

14, Chair Room 

This room appears to be deserted, except 
for a large wooden chair in its center. 

The chair is magical, a device created by 





77 
































Xaene for entertainment but abandoned 
recently, if a person sits in it, an image of 
whatever that person is thinking about 
appears and performs (within limitations as 
described below). For instance, a dwarf (if 
desired) would appear and perform-speech, 
mannerisms, behavior-the way a dwarf is 
perceived by the person thinking about 
dwarves. A specific person or creature can be 
called up, so long as the viewer has either 
seen the person in question or has extensive 
knowledge of the person (as might be gained 
through research or through the use of ESP to 
read someone else's mind). 

An image is semi-transparent and harmless, 
and can be communicated with (by gestures, 
verbally, if there is no language barrier). Its 
responses will often (half the time) be what 
the viewer imagines or expects (from his 
knowledge) them to be-but there is a 4 in 10 
chance that a response or answer to a com 
ment or question will be a lie, fabrication, or 
guess-some of them sounding ludicrous, 
others believable enough that they might be 
taken as true. There is also a 1 in 10 chance 
that the response or answer will contain at 
least some true information known by the 
14 real" version of the image that had previous 
ly been unknown to the viewer. 

Only creatures, characters, and things 
native to the Prime Material Plane can be 
called up by using this device. To summon an 
image, a character sits in the chair and con 
centrates upon the desired person or thing. 
The image appears after 1-3 rounds of steady 
concentration-sooner for characters of high 
intelligence, later for those of low intelligence. 
It can move around, but will never leave the 
room (or a 40-foot-diameter area centered on 
the chair, if the chair is moved from this 
room). Images that are larger than the con 
taining area (such as a large dragon) appear in 
truncated form, with their heads always visi 
ble. The chair may be used once per day indef 
initely; if it is used twice in a day (even to call 
the same image), it thereafter becomes inert 
for a week. (If a character gets up from the 
chair before an asked-for image forms, this 
counts as one use of the chair nevertheless.) 
The chair can be destroyed by inflicting 10 
points of structural damage upon it, 

15, Shadow Room 

This large area appears to be empty. Charac 
ters insisting on more information concerning 
the room as they w r ait near the entrance, or as 
they proceed inward, should be told that it is 
unnaturally dark in the room. 

Shadows (10): AC 7; MV 12 "; HD 3 +3; 
hp 17; MT 1; Dmg 2-5; THACO 16; AL CE; 
SA strength drain; SD hit only by +1 or bet 
ter weapons, some spell immunity, 90% unde 
tectable. 


The shadows lurk above, and will drop upon 
unsuspecting victims. Too much noise made 
here (DM T s discretion) will attract the displac 
er beasts from room 16, One shadow is this 
undead group's de facto leader, and it is intent 
upon leaving this dungeon since Xaene keeps 
them here against their will (he has threat 
ened them with utter destruction if they try to 
leave). The leader shadow will first attempt to 
communicate with the party. A character with 
intelligence of 16 or higher or one using com 
prehend languages or similar magic will be 
able to understand the shadow 1 . The creature 
knows the room Xaene resides in and of his 
secret phase door there. However, before 
giving out this information it will require coop 
eration from the PCs, in the form of a promise 
to help the shadows escape the dungeon. If 
the PCs and the shadows fail to communicate 
or if the leader shadow's deal is rejected, the 
undead creatures will attack immediately. The 
room contains nothing of value. 

16, Displacer Beasts 


As you approach the entrance, you see 
that this area is dimly lit by a partially open 
hooded lantern hanging by a chain in the 
center of the ceiling. 


Displacer Beasts (4): AC 4; MV 15"; HD6; 
hp 34 ; #AT 2; Dmg 2 8/2 8; THACO 13; AL 
N; SD ^2 on opponents' attack dice, save as 
12th level fighter with +2 on die. 

The beasts are up on ledges inside the cave, 
and leap down to attack. One is very intelli 
gent and will surrender if its hit points are 
reduced to 5 or less. If conversed with, it 
reveals that a vampire is the leader of the 
caverns to the south (room 18). It also knows 
the way out at room 31, but refuses to tell the 
party members this unless it is directly threat 
ened with death. If released, it proceeds to 
room 18 and warns the vampire there. If con 
fronted by the party a second time elsewhere 
in the dungeon, it flees. 

17, Nightmare Tapestry 


You see a tapestry on black doth, outlined 
with red trim and gold thread, fastened to 
the outside wall along this section of corri 
dor, In the scene visible immediately to the 
east, white figures-skeletons, undead, 
cowled humans, etc.-dance and cavort in 
a scene representing utter degradation. 
One end of the 10-foot-high tapestry is a 
few feet away from you to the east, and 
another section of tapestry is visible in a 
corridor heading to the northeast. If both 


pieces you see are ends of the same tapes 
try, the entire thing must be immensely 
long! 


The Tapestry of the Underworld stretches 
about the walls of this circular area. Each pic 
tured part represents an event in sequence 
building toward a climax. Unless the scenes 
are viewed in order beginning with the first 
section, nothing unnatural occurs; ail adverse 
effects described below pertain only to some 
one who views the tapestries in numerical 
order. 

First 10 feet, at the mouth of the corridor 
heading east: A large pit around which skele 
tal figures dance. They wield rusty scythe-like 
weapons. A viewer must attempt a ld20 
Intelligence Check or Wisdom Check (which 
ever ability score is greater). Success leaves 
the viewer free to do what he wants; failure 
indicates that the viewer is compelled to move 
on and examine the second section. 

Second 10 feet: A vampire's head is seen 
dangling from a trident. Its teeth have been 
tom from it and a bloody stream rushes like a 
torrent from its mouth. If the viewer has just 
come from viewing the first section, he must 
make either a ld20 Intelligence Check or Wis 
dom Check-this time with a -1 penalty-to 
keep from being driven to look at the third 
section. 

Third 10 feet: A man is being forced by two 
red ores through large iron portals beyond 
which can be seen a castle of bones. For a 
viewer who has just come from looking at the 
first and second sections in order, an Intelli 
gence or Wisdom Check is again called for 
here, this time with a -2 penalty. (From now 
on, the penalty worsens by -1 for every sub 
sequent scene viewed, until it reaches - 6 at 
the seventh and final section.) If such a viewer 
is physically forced to stop viewing the tapes 
try at this point or any time hereafter, the 
viewer must make a system shock roll with a 
-25% penalty. Failure indicates one of the 
following results, based on the victim's consti 
tution: 

13 or less: Insanity for a number of turns 
equal to 40 minus constitution: negated 
only through the implementation of a staff 
of curing or similar magic. 

14-16: Stunned for 40 turns minus con 
stitution. 

17-18: Blinded for 20 rounds minus con 
stitution. 

19 +: Speechless for a number of rounds 
equal to the victim's constitution. 

Fourth 10 feet: The view T er sees a scene 
looking out along a snaking road filled with suf 
fering humans being whipped onward by 
manes. 

Fifth 10 feet: The scene shows the gates of 


78 












the Bone Castle, open with throngs pressing 
against them and moving on into the depths of 
the seemingly uninhabited fortress. 

Sixth 10 feet: The scene is from the point of 
view of someone standing before the throne 
of Nerull. A compelled viewer sees himself as 
being girded by mini-deaths {see the Dungeon 
Masters Guide under Deck of Many Things, 
Skull), showered in valuables, and praised as a 
servant of the mighty god of the underworld. 

Seventh 10 feet: A compelled viewer sees 
himself bowing to Nerull. (To anyone else 
viewing it, the supplicant in the tapestry is an 
anonymous figure.) Any character who has 
failed all of his previous Intelligence or Wis 
dom Checks while viewing the tapestry has 
one final chance to make a successful check, 
this time with a -6 penalty. Failure causes 
the victim to lose 3 points from his prime abili 
ty score (strength for fighters, wisdom for 
clerics, etc.), but in no case will the loss drop 
the victim's score below the minimum 
requirement for the class. 

18. Huge Chamber 


You enter a chamber lit with strange danc 
ing ceiling lights which conform to a mosaic 
some 100 feet across and 50 feet wide. 
This is located on the middle span of the 
chamber-or so you would guess. Nothing 
else is apparent at this moment. 


The mosaic is decoration, but it has some spe 
cial significance to the intelligent undead, for 
although they cannot fathom its function they 
are nonetheless soothed by it. On occasion, 
Xaene's undead minions will stop and look 
upon the ceiling on their way through this 
cavern (making themselves vulnerable to 
attacks from pursuers), although the skele 
tons in rooms 19 and 20 are not affected by it 
in the least. The ceiling here is 40 feet high. 

Note the location of the central 10- foot 
wide corridor which converges on this cavern 
from the north: Five feet west of this corri 
dor's entry point and 30 feet up along the 
northern wall is a grotto 8 feet deep by 4 feet 
wide by 6 feet high. This is where the leader 
of the cavern forces (rooms 19, 20, 20A, 2 OB, 
23, and 24) resides in his coffin. Nerlax the 
vampire is awake at most times; there is only 
a 15% chance that he is sleeping when PCs 
enter this chamber. 

Nerlax the vampke: AC 1; MV 12"/18"; 
HD 8+3; hp 51; #AT 1; Dmg 5-10; THACO 
12; AL CE; SA energy drain, charm; SD 
assume gaseous form at will; regenerates 3 
hp/round; half damage from electrical or cold 
attacks; not affected by mind-control spells, 
poison, etc. 

If the cavern is invaded when Nerlax is 


sleeping, he awakens, turns to bat form, and 
fUes to 20A and 20B-this alerts the coffer 
corpses there; and when any of these crea 
tures cross the imaginary line 80 feet north of 
their cul-de-sac area, the skeleton hordes at 
19 and 20 react and move into the room, 
attacking intruders and cutting off possible 
retreat routes. 

If Nerlax is not sleeping, he will assess the 
situation before taking action. If the PCs seem 
to represent no immediate threat or if they 
retreat quickly, he does nothing, or at the 
very least he stations some skeleton guards at 
the entryways. If an attack is forced, he 
looses the aforementioned creatures and 
waits himself for opportunities to attack, 
seeking likely targets-such as magic-users- 
whom he can spring upon from above. 

Nerlax will not loose the otyughs at 23 and 
24 unless all other forces (except for himself) 
are defeated, and he will do this only to cover 
his own retreat. He then alerts the 
sword wraiths at 25 (creature B or H first, and 
the others in turn, two per round thereafter, 
depending upon his retreat route), organizing 
these for his next line of defense. 

Neriax's coffin contains a secret panel near 
the left side just above the outside handle. If 
the handle is slid left, then pulled out, the pan 
el will swing open, revealing a small compart 
ment containing a piece of paper, a book, 
three potions, and a ring case, all set upon a 
small heap of jewelry. The six pieces of jew 
elry are gold with gems (roll for each); the 
case holds a ring of shooting stars; the potions 
are undead control, extra- healing, and (fire) 
giant strength. The book is hollow and con 
tains a map showing a way out of the dungeon: 
the route from 18 through 22, along the south 
ernmost corridor to 26 and then southward to 
31 (but without revealing the existence of the 
side passages leading to 29 and 30). The piece 
of paper lists intended targets for the vam 
pire's next raids (written by Xaene). Among 
the names listed are Narlond (the real one) 
and a patriarch of Pholtus, Emastuss Carcosa, 
who resides in Rauxes under another identity. 

19. Skeleton Horde 

There are 50 skeletons located here. See 
room 18 for other specifics regarding them. 
Their instructions are to attack intruders and/ 
or to move to attack intruders once the 
wolfweres (20A and 20B) move into their line 
of sight to the west. They will also move upon 
Nerlax's direct orders to do so. They have 
nothing of value. 

Skeletons (50): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4; 
0AT 1; Dmg 1-6; THACO 19; AL N; SD 
immune to mind-affecting spells. 


The northern corridor out of this area 
seems unused. 


20. Skeleton Horde 

Particulars are the same as for room 19, 
except that this alcove holds 70 skeletons 
instead of 50. 

20A. Four Crates 


You see four wooden crates with lids in 
place. 


Each crate contains a wolfwere. If alerted by 
the vampire, or if a general assault is made 
upon the cavern (room 18), they rise from 
their containers and attack. They have no 
treasure. 

mifweres (4): AC 3; MV 15"; HD 5 + 1; 
hp 22; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 2-12 plus 1-4 (dag 
ger); THACO 15: AL CE; SA singing brings 
on lethargy, as a slow spell; SD iron or +1 
weapon to hit, MR 10%. 

20B. Three Crates 

Particulars are the same as for room 20A, 
except that only three wolfweres are seques 
tered here. 

21. Gray Ooze 01 

If the PCs are concentrating on examining the 
floor in front of them as they move, or if any 
PC in the front row of the marching order 
makes a successful 4d6 Intelligence Check, 
the party notices that the floor ahead for 15 or 
20 feet seems wetter and shinier than 
normal-different, but not necessarily dan 
gerous. 

If the PCs hesitate before walking onto the 
shiny area, and if the lead character makes a 
3d6 Intelligence Check, what lies ahead will 
be correctly identified as gray ooze. Other 
wise, the party will assume that the area con 
tains nothing but harmless slime and will walk 
right onto it. 

The gray ooze was living here before Xaene 
arrived. He and his minions have avoided the 
stuff, and it doesn't have any interest in them, 
either. 

Gray Ooze: AC 8; MV 1"; HD 3 + 3; hp 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2-16; THACO 16; AL N; SA cor 
rodes metal, weapons contacting it cause 
damage but thereafter corrode and break; SD 
impervious to spells, cold, and heat. 

22, Gray Ooze #2 

Same particulars as for room 21. 










23* Foul-Smelling Chamber, West 


The stench is almost overwhelming as you 
enter this circular chamber* Along the 
south wall is a huge pile of dirt and refuse. 
There is nothing moving in the room* 


If the otyugh that inhabits this room is already 
killed or driven off when PCs enter, there is 
nothing of interest here. However, if the ot 
yugh is yet alive and undiscovered, it is hiding 
in the offal pile, and is aware that the PCs have 
entered its room. It has an alliance with 
Xaene* and has been instructed to follow the 
orders of Nerlax the vampire (room 18). 

Otvugh: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 7; hp42; 0AT3; 
Dmg 1-8/1-8/2-5; THACO 13; AL N; SA 90% 
chance for bite to cause typhus* 

The otyugh's initial concern is to stop 
intruders from traveling out the southern cor 
ridor (blocked by its body, if it is present). It is 
always hungry, however, and will move to 
attack intruders (food!) if they have not 
moved within its attack range by the second 
round after entering its room* 

24* Foul-Smelling Chamber, East 

Same particulars as for room 23* except that 
this otyugh has 37 hit points. 

25* Swordwraiths 

Two swordwraiths are located in each grotto/ 
room (see the description of these creatures 
in Greyhawk(r) Adventures , pp, 31-32, but 
note change in damage per attack as explained 
below). These creatures will not move from 
their posts unless ordered hence by Xaene or 
Nerlax, or if the party remains in the corridor 
bordering their lairs for more than two 
rounds. In the latter case they move to attack 
intruders there, but do not pursue them 
beyond that point. There is one exception to 
the above-if a PC challenges a swordwraith, 
it will attack until destroyed, following the 
challenger anywhere as long as the target can 
be kept in sight* 

Swordwraiths (2 per chamber, A - H): AC 3 ; 
MV 9"; HD 7; hp see below; #AT 3/2 round; 
Dmg see below; THACO 10; AL LE; SA 
strength drain; SD only hit by +2 or better 
weapon* 

If a PC takes one step inside one of the lairs: 


You see a very small room. In the room's 
middle span is a small, raised area of rock 
about the size of a tree stump. Around this 
are standing two humanlike figures. They 
turn to look at you as you enter* and almost 
immediately they seize their weapons and 
in the common tongue shout, **Death to 
all! Fight, cowards* or die running!" 


There is nothing of apparent interest in any of 
these rooms. Some contain scraps of books 
and parchments, all relating to battles won 
and lost, types of tactics and troops/weapons 
employed, and so forth* It will take two 
rounds of searching to determine that a room 
has nothing of great value within it. 

These swordwraiths inflict damage accord 
ing to how they are armed, and each pair has 
varying hit points as per the following table. 


Room 

HP 

Dmg 

A 

36, 37 

2-8 (bastard swords) 

B 

35, 35 

2-7 (military picks, 
footman's) 

C 

37, 38 

2-7 (footman's maces) 

D 

28, 30 

1-6 (spears) 

E 

24, 26 

2-5 (hammers) 

F 

25, 28 

1-6 (shortswords) 

G 

27, 27 

1-6 (glaives) 

H 

30, 30 

2-8 (guisarmes) 


26* Pool of Water 


You see a pool of shallow water that com 
pletely covers the corridor. It must be 10 
feet wide by 30 feet long, and it blocks the 
southern passage. 


This is a teardrop from Nerull, enlarged and 
made permanent by Xaene. Negative Plane 
creatures and true believers in the will of 
Nerull can walk through this pool unaffected* 
Otherwise, special measures are required to 
get from this chamber into the southern corri 
dor safely. The pool may be crossed or cir 
cumvented by one or more PCs making use of 
any of the following forms of magic: water 
walking; negative plane protection ; 
wraith form; protection from evil immediately 
followed by bless; part water; transmute 
water to dust (pool is allowed a saving throw 
vs, spells as a 12th level magic- user to avoid 
the harmful effects of this spell); duo- 
dimension; vanish (saving throw required, 
and note the limited area affected). 

If some appropriate magic is not attempted 
or not successful and it looks as though one or 
more PCs might become trapped at the north 
edge of the pool, the highest-level magic-user 
in the party attempts a ld20 Intelligence 
Check. If successful, he has a vision in which 
piles of treasure appear on the floor of the 
chamber at the bottom of the pool. This is a 
sign (which may or may not be interpreted 
correctly by the PCs) that anyone can get 
through the pool unharmed once by dumping 
all the money, gems* and jewelry (nonmagical) 
in his possession into the pool and then simply 
walking through the water into the dry south 
ern corridor. 

Any other attempts to cross this obstruc 


tion (including teleport and similar magic) 
result in those doing so being affected as 
described below. Saving throws vs. spells, at 
-4, are allowed to escape the effects. 

Flying* climbing, levitating (etc.) across: 
Anyone failing his saving throws gets just 
over the edge of the pool before being pinned 
to the ceiling or wall by a water gusher for 3- 
18 points of damage, then flung back toward 
the northern shore. 

Walking through: Leprous gray hands grab 
those doing so and attempt to hold them in 
place. The hands can be negated for 1-6 
rounds-probably long enough for everyone 
to pass safely-by an effective dispel magic or 
dispel evil spell cast at the pool (the pool's 
magical level is 12), Each hand takes 6 hp of 
damage, has AC 5, and does not need to roll 
"to hit" in order to grasp a target with an 
effective strength of 20. If the grasp of a hand 
cannot be broken physically (by someone/ 
something with higher strength) and the band 
is not "killed" in the round when it appears* 
then it will be joined in the next round by 
another hand. If a character is held in place for 
one full turn, he begins to sink (as the eighth 
level magic-user spell). If this problem is not 
remedied within two rounds, the victim will be 
entombed in the pool. Part water ; lower 
water, transmute water to dust, or some simi 
lar magic used within one day thereafter will 
free an imprisoned character* If the victim is 
not freed by then* his essence is transported 
to Nerull T s domain in Tartems. 

Teleport or similar means: Those attempt 
ing this simply find the magic wasted-the 
spell lost from memory', or the item drained of 
an appropriate number of charges. If the item 
used is one that does not expend charges, 
there is a 50% chance that the item s magic is 
permanently dispelled (no saving throw). 

27. Symbol Columns 

Symbols of confusion are carved into these 
columns. However, those having made a sac 
rifice of treasure at the pool (room 26) are 
immune to the initial effects of these and may 
pass by if they shield their eyes. Characters 
missing their saving throws could flee back 
through the pool. Roll a fear check when flee 
ing characters reach the south side of the 
pool. A successful check means that they are 
unafraid and enter the pool, unmindful of what 
it will do to them. Xaene usually keeps these 
symbols covered during non-alert hours* but 
they will certainly be uncovered when 
intruders are about. Note that the bachs pass 
ing this way to communicate with Xaene know 
enough to fly high and close their eyes. 


80 















28* Four Corridors 


You note converging corridors* You may 
proceed east, west or south. Your voices 
seem magnified here, and there are more 
echoes. 


Characters looking upward with the assist 
ance of light sources should be informed of the 
following: 


There is a 10-foot-square hole which con 
tinues for some distance upward. You see 
something moving down toward you! 


A roper lives in the area above the branching 
corridors, approximately 40 feet up and out of 
normal sighting range, ft attacks anything that 
is not undead T and occasionally it 1 !! mistakenly 
grab a bach, thinking it's a bat. It has grown 
mean because Xaene will not let it leave to 
hunt human flesh. It attacks insanely when 
aware of the presence of humans! 

Roper: AC 0; MV 3"; HD 11; hp67; MT 1: 
Dmg 5-20; THACO 10; AL CE; SA hits cause 
weakness; SD MR 80%, immune to lightning, 
cold does half or no damage. 

The roper has collected nothing above, but 
it has a ring of protection +3 in its gullet. 

29. Treasury 


You enter an area heaped with valuables; 
but before you can do or say anything a 
screeching batlike being with two heads 
flies from behind an urn straight at you! 


Giant Bach: AC 4; MV 6" /21"; HD 7 + 12; 
hp 58; #AT 2: Dmg 1-6/1-6; THACO 13; AL 
CE; SA bite causes paralysis; SD turned as a 
vampire, immune to sleep and charm and sim 
ilar mind-affecting spells and powers. 

This creature is a variation of the bach at 
described at room 5. Once the bach is dis 
patched, read the following passages to those 
noting the room's contents: 


Located among heaps of gold and silver are 
three brass ums containing gems, four sil 
ver unis containing more silver, and five 
pewter urns containing copper. 


There are 13,000 s*p. and 6,000 g.p. scat 
tered about the room* The brass ums are 
worth 90 g.p. each and the gems (200 per urn) 
are base 5 g.p. zircons* The four silver ums 
are worth 500 g.p. each and their contents are 
actually platinum pieces (200 per urn), but do 
not tell the PCs this unless they examine the 
contents closely. The four pewter ums are 
worth 30 g.p* each, and their copper pieces 


(100 per um) are lighter colored than most- 
again, only inform the PCs of this if they take 
special time to examine the copper coinage. In 
fact, these pieces were minted during the ear 
lier years of the Great Kingdom when copper 
and gold were combined to make a more 
standard gold coin. Each "copper piece" has a 
market value of 5 g.p. Certain sages, metal 
lurgists, and coin collectors will pay from 6-10 
g.p. per coin, however. (The party would 
have a good chance of unloading these coins at 
the following places in Rauxes: #23, Kendor's 
Jewelry; #24, Jakkur's Anything Shop; #32, 
Sages Guild; or #37, Opan's Pawn Shop.) 

30. Wizard's Room 


You see a large room replete with para 
phernalia common to one given over to the 
pursuit and study of magic. But before you 
can advance farther than a few steps 
beyond the cave mouth, a man appears to 
materialize right out of the middle of a tall 
set of shelves* As he comes into better 
view, you see not a man but a strange two- 
headed undead being. In his left hand he 
holds a scythe topped by a red skull. His 
eyes turn to meet yours; and at once the 
right head cackles while the left's mouth 
and teeth move* 


This is Xaene the two-headed lich, the entity 
that the PCs should wish to capture or kill. 
Xaene will act as though he is fighting to the 
death, but if he comes to think that victory is 
impossible, he will flee. He is in most regards 
a lich as described in the Monster Manual , 
except for a few differences including these 
three important ones: 1) he does not cause 
fear, 2) his hands do not cause paralyzation 
upon touch (but see below); and 3) he has two 
heads* 

Xaene's left hand acts as that of a mummy 
(Dmg 1-12, save vs. poison or contract rot 
ting disease), and the right one causes an 
energy drain of 1 level upon a successful hit. If 
both hands hit the same character in the same 
round, the victim is instantly rendered uncon 
scious and infected with a rotting disease that 
will kill him within 3-5 rounds unless cure dis 
ease or similar magic is used. 

Xaene, once ousted from the court wizard 
position he had coveted for such a long time, 
took to studying necromancy, an art he had 
become efficient in while creating Ivid's vari 
ous servants. While raiding graveyards and 
tombs he came upon the artifact described in 
room 17 above, as well as those detailed in 
room 11* All three artifacts are aligned to 
NeraU, especially the Tapestry of Night 
mares* In unraveling the tapestry's secret, 
Xaene was converted to neutral evil (from 


chaotic evil) and was transformed into a lich* 
However, his mind, strong as it was, could not 
stand (or fathom) the change; and his will per 
sisted to such a stubborn degree that Nerull 
actually cursed Xaene, saying, "You have two 
minds-so have two heads to go with them!" 

The heads are equally divided in their phi 
losophies; the left is pure neutral while the 
right is pure evil* Some day Xaene hopes he 
will remove Nerull's curse and return to a 
one- headed* neutral evil individual. But until 
then, each mind will perceive things, and thus 
react to things, differently. The neutral head 
is more calculating and organized-thus its 
recourse to a spell upon sighting the party. 
The evil side is intent upon destruction and is 
not overly guided in thought, so it gloated for a 
time after sighting the party (and thus lost 
Xaene's chance for automatic surprise), but is 
more destructive in its application of power* 

Follow the guidelines below for determining 
what each head (mind) attempts in a given 
turn. Note that only one mind can successfully 
implement an action or spell at one time, and 
there is an equal chance for either one to gain 
the initiative and thus utilize the energy/time 
available to it during these periods-the other 
mind is temporarily "shut out" for a time 
equal to what it takes the other to achieve the 
initial result. Contemplation then begins anew 
and the struggle between the two mind- sets 
starts over. This "struggle" in no way slows 
Xaene's physical reactions, for the minds, 
although contesting with each other in 
thoughts and actions, have adjusted to sharing 
the body and its processes* 

Neutral (left side): There is order here. It 
attempts to achieve maximum results with lit 
tle damage to it or its goals* Suicide is not pos 
sible; surrender is. Living to fight another day 
is always a consideration. 

Evil (right side): This side has no guiding 
force except the destruction or subjugation of 
anything non-evil. It will choose to use offen 
sive spells and attacks in virtually any situa 
tion (99% chance)-even if (for instance) a 
victim is attempting to surrender. Loss of its 
own life-or those of its allies-is not consid 
ered in its decision-making. Victory at any 
cost should be considered its only "rational" 
credo. 

Xaene the Accursed (lich): AC 0; MV 12 "; 
HD 16; hp 96; #AT 1 (scythe) or 2 (hands; see 
above); Dmg 6-13 (scythe); Str 10, Int 17, 
Wis 12, Dex 14, Con 11, Cha -2; THACO 7; 
AL see above; SA spells, disease; SD affected 
only by magical attack forms or 6+ HD 
monsters/characters; not affected by charm * 
sleep, enfeeblement, polymorph, cold, elec 
tricity (lightning), insanity, and/or death spells 
or powers. Items carried: scythe + 5, ring of 
mammal control, Zagyg f s spell component 
case (the components located therein are 

















worth 12,000 g.p.), He ward's handy haver 
sack containing three potions of undead con 
trol (vampires, ghouls, wraiths), a map and 
notes indicating diseased portions of the land 
(see "Concluding the Adventure" below), and 
his spell books. 

The contents of Xaene's spell books are as 
given below (DM's discretion as to which 
ones are currently in memory), 

1st level (11): affect normal fires, charm 
person, comprehend languages, find familiar, 
grease, identify, magic missile, read magic r 
write 

2nd level (10): continual light T darkness 15 ' 
radius , ESP, invisibility, levitate, Melfs acid 
arrow, shatter, vocalize, web 
3rd level (9): clairvoyance, dispel magic, 
explosive runes, dame arrow t hold person, 
material Melfs minute meteor, phantasma/ 
force, wind wall 

4th level (8): dimension door .; fear, fire 
shield, ice storm, magic mirror; polymorph 
other wall of ice, wizard eye 
5th level (8): animate dead, conjure elemen 
tal, dismissal, dolor, hold monster, sending t 
teleport, wall offeree 

6th level (8): Bigby's forceful hand, control 
weather, enchant an item, glassee, globe of 
invulnerability, guards and wards, legend lore, 
repulsion 

7th level (8): banishment, Drawing's instant 
summons, limited wish, mass invisibility, 
phase door ; reverse gravity, torment, vanish 
8th level (8): Bigbys clenched list, binding, 
glass teel, incendiary cloud, mind blank , per 
manency, polymorph any object , symbol 
When and if Xaene is defeated, the party can 
examine the sparse contents of the room. 
Located on the west wall, center, is the book 


shelf that Xaene seemingly came out of. In real 
ity, there is a phase door spell upon the shelf in 
its middle span; and Xaene was, at the time the 
party entered, returning from the 10-foot- 
square area beyond it. The shelf contains vari 
ous minor treatises from a time before Xaene 
became afflicted by NenilTs curse. These 
papers and books are practically worthless, but 
even so are the most valuable items in the 
room-in sum, there is nothing of interest in 
this chamber. Resting and eating places, and 
the usual utensils associated with these, are 
not here for obvious reasons . All valuables that 
Xaene owns, except those in his spell pouch 
and on his person, are located in room 29. 

Concluding the Adventure 

The map and notes in Xaene's haversack 
should be read by the party. Have a scrap of 
paper with notes on it fall out of the haversack 
when this is handled, but only if it seems likely 
that the characters will not open it and exam 
ine the contents. 

If the PCs do not kill Xaene or manage to 
gain possession of the haversack, then a brief 
examination of the shelves in room 30 will 
yield a map and some accompanying notes 
that serve the same purpose. 

After the PCs read the notes and study the 
map, there are two possible conclusions to be 
drawn, depending on the desired ending. 

If this adventure is played as part of the 
overall campaign, then the PCs discover 
vague hints about more people associated 
with the plague. They also find out that 
Xaene, even though he was close to discover 
ing the identity of the actual mastermind, is 
missing a piece to the puzzle that might be 
found in the city of Chendl, in Furyondy. If the 


party fails to kill Xaene, all magic-users in the 
Flanaess lose 1 point of constitution at the 
moment that the PCs exit the dungeon. 

If the adventure is played as a one- time 
scenario, then the PCs can succeed by obtain 
ing the notes on the disease, whether or not 
Xaene is defeated. The notes describe a sim 
ple but unusual remedy for the plague: bring a 
pot of water to a boil, then bend over it and 
breathe the steam for five rounds. The heat 
kills the bacteria causing the infection; how 
ever (and the notes don't reveal this), anyone 
who takes the treatment suffers 1 point of 
damage per round from the scalding steam 
unless the skin of his face is covered. By 
bringing the cure to the attention of Rauxes 
city officials, the PCs will be hailed as heroes, 
with all the benefits and gifts that such lofty 
status warrants. 

31, Tunnel Sloping Up 


You notice that the tunnel ahead of you 
slants gradually upward, continuing as far 
as the light-assisted eye can see, 


If this tunnel is followed for about two miles , it 
exits at ground level in a small swamp south of 
Rauxes, 


After you travel approximately a mile, the 
corridor becomes wet, and mud can be 
noted ahead. As you slog along you 
become knee-deep in the stuff, but 
through persistence you find your way into 
the fresh air of the outdoors-a fen sur 
rounded by dying trees. Ah- fresh swamp 
air! A treat, compared to Xaene *s 
dungeons and Barley's sewers. 


82 












Chendl 

Chendl stands alone in the Flanaess as the 
only truly planned city. In days of old there 
was another city named Chendl nearby (in 
fact, near where Crockport now stands)* But 
in the year 927 0*R., several decades after 
Furyondy as such was formed, the king (then 
Thrommel III) decided he needed a new capi 
tal. Thus, a new Chendl was built: a beautiful, 
wealthy, dean, and peaceful city, a city of wide 
canals and graceful temples* Its boundaries 
were laid out with compass and straightedge, 
its streets with transit and theodolite* It took 
five years for the city to progress from plans 
to reality, and thereafter it has remained 
unchanging , * . perfect* 

A consequence of being a planned city is 
that Chendl is built to hold a set population 
(15,750, to be exact; its current population of 
15,600 is close enough to the optimum that 
new permanent residents are not actively 
solicited at the present time)* Immigration 
and emigration are carefully monitored. If 
there's space in the city, anyone who can 
prove "verifiable worth"-capital to start a 
business, skills needed by the city, etc*-can 
become a Citizen. (Note the capital letter to 
designate the individual's acceptance by the 
city administration)* As the population 
approaches the optimum (which is the case at 
present), Citizenship requirements become 
more stringent; the converse is also true, of 
course. (The death rate is almost exactly 
matched by the birth rate, so this doesn't 
come into the calculation), 

The nature of the city has another conse 
quence: there are no slums, no areas housing 
exclusively poor people* There are taverns 
and rooming houses, of course, capable of 
handling a transient population of almost one 
thousand. Visitors don't have to show "verifi 
able worth"; anyone is welcome as a visitor 
(as long as he can pay for lodging, w T hich is 
generally expensive). There are usually few 
adventurers in the city (it's so well organized 
as to prove boring). Although not expressly 
forbidden, the public display of weapons and 
armor is seriously frowned upon* 

The city is absolutely beautiful, as none can 
deny. Its streets are wide and clean, lit at 
night by suspended globes on which continual 
light has been cast* Its buildings are of stone, 
as opposed to the wood typical of other cities, 
with graceful arches, buttresses and colon 
nades. Its canals-on which Citizens often 
cruise in flat-bottomed punts-boast floating 
pleasure gardens, or just reflect the magnifi 
cence of the architecture* The overall effect 
proved sufficient to prompt the bard Diam- 
beth to state, "The City of Greyhawk may 
claim to be the Gem of the Flanaess, but I 


name Chendl to be the Diadem *" 

The entire city is surrounded by a high wall 
which is guarded round the clock by the city 
police reinforced by troops of the King 's Light 
Infantry. The area surrounding the palace 
itself-the Inner City-is ringed by another 
wall, much smaller and less weU guarded. The 
Inner City is the preserve of the royal family 
and of the nobility-those born into the Seven 
Families, the major families that effectively 
run the city. Although the guards at the gates 
to the Inner City don't bar the entry of "com 
moners," still the segregation is as effective 
as if they did. In Chendl, social custom fre 
quently has the force of law, and it is custom 
that only the nobility may freely enter the 
Inner City. 

At the core of the Inner City stands the pal 
ace, a majestic building of gold-veined white 
marble. Even in a city of magnificence, the 
palace stands out as extraordinary. Among 
other attractions, it boasts a huge dome of 
glas steel covering a garden of exotic plants 
and birds (even several baneful varieties are 
on display * . . safely roped off, of course). 
Anywhere else, the gleaming dome would be 
the centerpiece of the city; in Chendl it's 
overshadowed-quite literally-by something 
else* 

This something else is the king's floating 
garden-not like the ones that float in the 
canals; this one floats in the air* Held several 
hundred feet above the ground by powerful 
magic, it's a private retreat for the king and 
his closest friends. Access is by two bridges- 
delicate white arches-the feet of which are 
guarded by the king's own House Regiment (a 
detachment of four for each bridge). When the 
sun has sunk beneath the horizon, for some 
time its rays still shine on the king's garden, 
making it glow with a golden light. The lower 
portions of the bridges are already in shadow, 
so it's very easy to pretend that the garden 
has no connection with the ground at all. At 
the highest point of the floating garden is a 
flagpole, atop which flies the king's personal 
standard when he is in residence. 

House Regiment officer-6th level tighter: 
AC 4 (banded mail); MV 9"; HD 6; hp 6-60; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-10 (halberd) or 2-9 (longs word 
-hi); THAC0 16; AL LG. 

Although not as sumptuous as the Inner 
City, the rest of Chendl is still impressive 
compared to other cities in the Flanaess. The 
streets are clean and lighted, the city police 
are polite and efficient, violent crime is kept to 
a bare minimum, and there are none of the 
hideously poor found in most other cities. 
There are good inns and taverns, ranging 
from average quality (prices and goods/ 
services) on up. The Wyrm is the best inn in 
town, and Sutter's is a top-quality restaurant, 
tavern, and gaming house. Of slightly lower 


status is Weatherhaven Inn, and below that 
(but still better than average-quality places in 
most other cities) are the King's Arms Tavern 
and the Heroes' Rest Inn* 

A central facet of city life is gambling, and 
there are many casinos and gaming houses 
both in the Inner City and in "Greater 
Chendl." Policed by the government, all are 
safe and (relatively) honest. Government reg 
ulations forbid high-stakes gambling except in 
the Inner City (table limits are usually in the l - 
10 g.p. range; in the Inner City, the sky's the 
limit). Because of this, there are several illicit 
gambling dubs outside that cater to high 
rollers who aren't nobility. In these-it's an 
open secret that they're run by the Thieves' 
and Assassins' Guilds-the house percentage 
is considerably higher and the games them 
selves are sometimes rigged. 

The king, Belvor IV (a 14th level paladin), 
His Pious Majesty, King of Furyondy, is in his 
mid-30s-younger than most of his advisors, 
chamberlains and generals, which is an 
embarrassment to some-and has the verve 
and energy of someone a decade younger. He 
revels in the joys of the hunt (with falcon and 
with bow), in jousting, and in other vigorous 
activities. Because the populace follows the 
lead of the king in many things, the nobility, 
too, dedicates much time to such pastimes. 

The alignment of the city is strongly lawful 
good, with some of the Knights of Furyondy 
holding paladin status (like the king). It is a 
caste-bound society, with the Seven Families 
at the pinnacle, followed by "semi-nobles" 
(families with some noble blood through mar 
riage)* then the merchant and guild classes 
(including the Mages' Guild, etc.), artisans, 
and finally laborers. The higher-ranking mer 
chants very occasionally diffuse into the lower 
nobility through marriage. High arts are com 
mon among the nobility, with music and the 
visual arts reaching pinnacles of brilliance. 
Nobility is generally considered a hereditary 
thing: if you aren't bom into the appropriate 
family, or haven't married into it, you just 
aren't part of the aristocracy. Exceptions are 
sometimes made for foreigners: hereditary 
nobility from other cities and countries is rec 
ognized, and acceptance is sometimes 
granted-albeit grudgingly-for certain visit 
ing heroes whose achievements live in song 
and story* Unless the PCs qualify (or can con 
vince people that they qualify), they might find 
the wonders of the Inner City off limits* 

The city is very law-abiding, and is patrolled 
by a well-trained police force. A typical patrol 
consists of five privates and one sergeant 
accompanied by a 2nd level magic-user (see 
"At the King's Right Hand" Adventure #8, 
for statistics). In the Inner City-particularly 
around the palace-the House Regiment 
shares some of the police duties. A House 


83 






violence is another tool of doing business, and 
every tool has its uses. 

Unlike such cities as Wintershiven, Chendl 
is religiously very' tolerant . Temples dedicated 
to most of the non-evil deities can be found 
somewhere in the city, and all are treated with 
respect by the city administration. Some 
faiths have two temples, one in the inner City, 
one elsewhere. Others have only one, outside 
the Inner City, Wforshipers of almost any deity 
can profess their faith in public, confident of 
living through the experience unlynched. 
There is a small evil subculture, and services 
dedicated to certain evil deities are conducted 
under conditions of deepest secrecy. 

The king worships the god Heironeous the 
Invincible, so it J s only logical that his temples 
be the largest and most ornate (the one inside 
the Inner City is part of the palace complex, 
and is most spectacular). 

For encounters within the city, use the 
City/Town Encounters Matrix on page 191 of 
the Dungeon Masters Guide. The DM should 
keep in mind the characteristics of the city 
and should feel free to modify these encoun 
ters to better suit the nature of Chendl. 


Map Key 

1. Palace complex, with arboretum, temple 

to Heironeous, and floating 
garden (dotted lines) 

2. Canals 

3. Field of Honor 

4. City police guardhouse 

5. House Regiment barracks 

6. The Wyrm (inn) 

7. City administration and executive 

office complex 

8. Tore's house (on Windward Avenue) 

9. Temple to Istus 

10. Temples to Heironeous 

11. King's Light Infantry barracks 

12. Golden Wheel Casino 

13. Ki-Rin Gaming House 

14. House of Chance Casino 

15. Bella's Casino 

16. Mages' Guildhall 

17. Smiths' Guildhall 

18. Teamsters' Guildhall 

19. Four Brothers warehouse and 

offices (home of Thieves Guild) 

20. Temples to St. Cuthbert 

21. Temple to Pholtus 

22. Temple to Kord 

23. Temple to Pelor 

24. Temple to Rao 

25. Temples to Allitur 

26. Temples to Delleb 

27. Weather haven Inn 
28* King's Arms Tavern 

29. Sutter's (restaurant, tavern, 

and gaming house) 

30. Heroes' Rest Inn 


Regiment patrol wiU consist of three soldiers 
(statistics as given above). 

Somewhat surprisingly-considering the 
overall ethos of the city-duels are still used 
to settle disagreements. In Chendl society, 
courtesy and politeness are codified, and have 
the strength of law. There are certain situa 
tions where one is required to challenge a 
transgressor to a duel. Duels take place on 
the Field of Honor, a large open area near the 
wall to the Inner City. 

For lesser duels, each duelist has a second, 
and usually some independent party acts as 
referee; enforcement of rules and honor is left 
to the participants. For duels among nobles, 
however, behavior is strictly prescribed: sec 
onds must be unarmed, magic is outlawed, 
interference from the sidelines is punishable 
by death, etc,, etc. Duels among the nobility 


often attract large crowds. Detachments of 
police and of the House Regiment are fre 
quently present to ensure the peace* The ref 
eree for such duels is always another noble, 
usually one of higher rank-and power, 
whether physical or magical-than the com 
batants. Among the nobles, duels to the death 
aren't as serious, as most can afford immedi 
ate resurrection (there are some nobles 
who've lost several duels); among the lower 
classes, they're deadly serious. 

Like any city, Chendl has its Thieves Guild; 
however, the guild reflects the organized out 
look of the city* Instead of a pack of wild cut- 
purses, the guild is an organization of 
conservative businessmen; mugging trav 
elers, sticking up stores, and kidnapping mer 
chants are all bad for business. This doesn't 
mean the city is completely safe, of course: 


CHENDL Scale: 1 inch = 250 yards 








AT THE KING'S RIGHT HAND 


This adventure is designed for four to six 
characters, each of 10th to 12th level. A pala 
din character will be helpful, although not 
strictly necessary. At least one member of the 
party should have a magic weapon of +2 or 
greater enchantment. 

DIVTs Introduction 

By the time the PCs reach Chendl, the plague 
has already gained a significant foothold. The 
first recorded case occurred some four weeks 
before the PCs' arrival, and already more 
than 10% of the population are feeling its 
effects. There T ve been remarkably few 
deaths (so far)-mainly due to the efficiency of 
the city's "medical" services. As soon as the 
seriousness of the disease became known, 
the City Administration set up free clinics 
throughout the city. At these clinics, patients 
are kept in quarantine in an attempt to halt the 
spread of the disease. They're kept warm and 
well fed, with apothecaries and clerics to help 
in any way possible. 

Although they can't cure the disease, at 
least the clinics can prevent patients from 
dying from related causes (dehydration, expo 
sure, etc.). The clinics in the Inner City are 
considerably more luxurious than the rest, but 
all represent an honest attempt to stop the 
epidemic. 

Despite everything the clinics are doing, 
the plague is continuing to spread. If the level 
of infection reaches 15%, the clinics will be 
totally overwhelmed, and the system will 
break down. 

Entering the City 

As with Elredd ("Diambeth's Delving," 
Adventure #4), the city administration of 
Chendl has realized that it is a good idea to 
screen visitors who want to enter the city. 
When the PCs arrive, they find each city gate 
shut and guarded by a detachment of city 
police-six privates and a sergeant- 
accompanied by a magic-user who is in the 
city's employ. 

Private-1st level fighter: AC 6 (scale 
mail); MV 9"; HD 1; hp 1-10; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 
(longsword) or 1-6 (spear); THACG 20; AL 
LG. 

Sergeant-3rd level fighter: AC 6 (scale 
mail); MV 9HD 3; hp 22; tfAT 1; Dmg 1-8 
(longsword) or 1-6 (spear); THACO 18; AL 
LG. 

Magic-user-2nd level: AC 10; MV 12"; 
HD 2; hp 5; HAT 1; Dmg 14 (dagger); 
THACO 20; AL LG. Spells carried: friends, 
sleep . 

These police have the duty of examining 
any visitors to the dty for signs of the plague. 
If the PCs are all free of obvious symptoms 
(red edemas, etc.), the police open a small 
postern gate and allow them in. If symptoms 


are visible, however, the police politely but 
firmly instruct the PCs to leave immediately. 
Should the PCs decide to attack the police 
detachment, they'll immediately be engaged 
by an additional 20 police privates (variously 
armed with spears, longs words, and short- 
bows) and another magic-user-this one 5th 
level with 13 hit points and carrying magic 
missile (x2), sleep (x2), web (x2), and fireball. 
These new adversaries appear on the battle 
ments over the gate. The main gate and pos 
tern gate are both locked, and will only be 
opened if the correct password is given (the 
police detachment outside knows the 
password, of course). Inside the gate is 
another detachment of 20 privates and four 
sergeants, statistics as above. 

The gate and wall guards have an important 
duty-protecting the city from further 
infection-and they take it very seriously. 
None will consider a bribe, and the arrange 
ment is such that anyone who doesn't pass 
inspection will find it very difficult to enter the 
city. 

Unlike those of poorer and less organized 
cities, ChendTs streets aren't filled with 
hawkers selling quack nostrums. Everyone in 
town knows that the clinics are doing every 
thing that can be done for the victims, so 
there's no market for expensive patent medi 
cines. At each corner, a posted notice 
announces the location of the nearest clinic, 
and advises anyone who suffers from any of 
the disease's symptoms to seek treatment 
immediately. 

Arlina Again 

When the PCs enter the city, one of the first 
people they meet is Arlina (see The Mirrors 
of Fate section of this book). She's glad to see 
them, and eagerly drags them off the street 
into a tea house, tavern, or somewhere else 
where they can speak privately. She has a tale 
of great import to tell them. . . , 

"When you met me in Winter shiven," Arlina 
says, "I was suffering from the plague. Soon 
after you left, my fever grew, and I fell deathly 
ill. Drifting in and out of delirium, I dreamt that 
I was walking in a fine garden with the Lady of 
Our Fate, the goddess Istus herself. As we 
walked, Istus plucked a blossom from a tree 
and gave it to me. Somehow, as she gave me 
the bloom, I realized we were in the dty of 
Chendl. Also in the garden was the young king 
of Furyondy. He strolled with a friend, a friend 
as dark of hair and eye as the king is bright. 
The two young men talked and laughed as 
companions, free of care. But, as I watched, 
the dark man changed. His skin turned the 
color of rusted iron, and wings burst through 
his jerkin. Unconcerned, the king walked on, 
laughing, as the wings spread over him, cast 
ing dark shadows on his golden head. 


"Then I awoke." Arlina sighs. "Of course, 
at first I thought it just a dream, a product of 
my fevered imagination. But then 1 realized I 
had something clutched in my hand." She 
holds out toward you a crushed blossom- 
unfamiliar in form, and of surpassing beauty. 

"My fever was gone," Arlina continues, "I 
was free of the disease, I realized then that 
the dream had been a true vision, 

"There was more to the vision than the sur 
face events 1 told you," she goes on. "1 felt 
things-great evil, a malevolent intelligence, 
and a gloating amusement-that are not of this 
plane. I also felt some connection, I know not 
what, with the plague. 1 fear fell things are 
afoot. 

"I hurried to Chendl. As I reached the gate, 
I saw a scene that could have been from the 
vision. The young king was returning from a 
hunting trip with some of his companions. Rid 
ing knee to knee with him was the dark man T 
saw in my dream. 

"His name is Tore, this young companion of 
the king-I found that from talking to 
citizens-and he arrived in town some four 
weeks ago. That was the day before the first 
case of the plague was found." 

Arlina leans forward earnestly. "I fear for 
the king," she tells you. "I fear for Furyondy, 
and I fear for the balance. Since I arrived in 
Chendl, your faces have come to me in 
visions. You helped me once before. Will you 
help me again?" 

Arlina's fears aren't exactly clear, even to 
herself, but they concern Tore, If her visions 
are to be believed, he's not of this plane. 
There's no doubt that he has somehow 
worked his way into a position of trust, a posi 
tion where he can perhaps influence the king. 
She begs the PCs to discover Tore's true 
nature, and to remove him as a potential 
threat to the balance of good and evil. She has 
no concrete suggestions as to how to go about 
this, but doubts that the PCs can succeed 
without killing Tore. 

If the PCs seem unwilling to help, she 
repeats that the plague sprung up immediately 
after the arrival of Tore. Maybe the sickness is 
part of Tore's evil plans, and would end if he 
were vanquished. She will certainly concen 
trate her persuasive abilities on any paladin 
among the PCs, stressing the vital importance 
of ridding the world of a powerful evil influ 
ence. 

If the PCs categorically refuse to take on 
the task, they've failed the Test of the Pala 
dins. At the instant when it becomes apparent 
that they won't change their minds, all pala 
dins in the Flanaess lose 1 point of constitu 
tion. Simultaneously, Arlina vanishes, along 
with all her possessions. (Istus and Mor- 
gorath have no further use for the "Arlina" 
character.) 


85 








If they accept the mission, Arlina tells that 
PCs that she'll be in town for several days, 
but will be spending that time sequestered m 
the temple to Istus. But, even though she 
won't be able to accompany the PCs, her 
thoughts and prayers will be with them. . . . 

The motives of Istus and Morgorath are 
almost exactly as Arlina stated. Furyondy and 
the Shield Lands are strong allies opposing 
the Homed Society, and balancing the latter's 
power. Should Furyondy-or at least, its 
king-be somehow turned to evil, then the 
alliance will obviously end. Without the aid of 
Furyondy, the Shield Lands will eventually 
fall, seriously unsettling the good-evil balance 
in the region. Istus is interested in maintaining 
this balance, and sees Tore's influence on the 
king as a serious threat to it. 

Research 

The PCs may decide to tell the king or Ins 
ministers what Arlina has told them, and leave 
it at that. They should quickly learn that this 
isn't the way to go. For one thing, access to 
the king-or to anyone of high rank-is very 
difficult to come by, particularly for scruffy 
travelers. For another, the story sounds like 
complete bunk: a paranoid delusion or some 
kind of scam. Nobody will believe the PCs. 
Should they try to press the point, the police 
will be called to take the "paranoids" away for 
treatment. 

Keeping this in mind, the PCs should proba 
bly begin by doing some research on Tore. 
The most obvious way is for them to chat with 
people in bars, on the streets, and so forth. 

As a new' boon companion to the king, Tore 
is quite well known around the city. Almost 
everyone in ChendL apart from some new 
comers, will know his name and something 
about his history. Nobody will know 7 every 
thing there is to know, however, and getting 
the full story will take a number of "inter 
views." (This is a great opportunity for the 
DM to role-play all the citizens and transients 
whom the PCs try to talk to.) Most citizens of 
Chendl are polite, and will at least spare the 
PCs a few moments. Like anywhere else, 
however, there' ll be some whose tongues can 
only be loosened by the application of ale or 
coin. 

The following is the story that the PCs will 
eventually be able to piece together: 

Tore was bom in Chendl some thirty years 
ago to a family of middle-class merchants. 
Then, as now, Chendl was a very caste-bound 
society: to reach the highest levels of achieve 
ment in any field, one must be noble-bom. 
Although Tore's potential was obvious to 
everyone, he was doomed to a life of medioc 
rity ... if he stayed in Chendl. As soon as the 
young Tore realized this, he left home to make 
his own way in the world. 


He found success in the Shield Lands, 
where he earned his spurs through brilliance 
in battle and single combat, and was invested 
as a Knight of the Shield. After several years 
in the service of Holmer, Knight Commander 
of the Shield Lands, he derided to return to 
the land of his birth. He arrived in Furyondy 
just in time to aid a hunting party that had been 
ambushed by hobgoblin raiders. Tore distin 
guished himself in the fight, defeating the hob 
goblin chieftain in single combat, and saving 
the beleaguered hunting party . . . which just 
happened to include His Pious Majesty, 
Belvor IV. 

Tore was welcomed back into his own city 
with great pomp and ceremony. As a Knight of 
the Shield, and as a bonafide hero, class status 
is no longer an issue for him. Tore was granted 
full citizenship, and all the rights of the Inner 
City. At first Tore stayed in an inn (The Wynn, 
near the north gate to the Inner City), but the 
king would have none of that: a hero must stay 
in the palace. 

Over the next weeks, the king and Tore 
spent much time together: riding, hunting, 
and just talking. It was obvious that both had 
found a kindred spirit in the other, and a strong 
bond of friendship grew between them. Now 
the two are almost inseparable. 

Most citizens do not dislike Tore or suspect 
him of any evil motives. With his dark good 
looks and dashing figure, he looks a fitting 
companion for their king. Many among the 
Seven Families are aiming their unmarried 
daughters toward Tore, but with little 
success-although he's always polite and 
good company, he seems to have little or no 
interest in girls (or boys either, for that mat 
ter). The speculation is that celibacy was one 
of the oaths he took when he became a Knight 
of the Shield. There are some who disapprove 
of the influence Tore has over the king-the 
same ones who disapprove of Belvor's youth 
ful nature-but these are greatly in the minor 
ity. 

Not everything is sweetness and light with 
Tore, however. He's easily irritated, and has 
already slain four noblemen who rubbed him 
the wrong way. According to the law's and cus 
toms of the city, he was perfectly within his 
rights in all four cases to challenge and then 
dispatch them on the field of honor, but few 
others would have been so picky as to demand 
death for such trifling slights. The king still 
supports Tore, however, and will hear nothing 
bad spoken about him. 

These are the facts that the PCs will be able 
to glean from conversation. Of course, there 
are some unsubstantiated rumors and out- 
and-out exaggerations that will get mixed in 
with the truth. Thus the PCs will have to 
assess what they hear quite carefully. Some of 
these distortions are: 


1. Tore is actually related to Belvor IV. He 
was the black sheep of the family, but the obvi 
ous reconciliation between them means that 
Tore will be considered for the succession if 
Belvor should die. 

2. Tore is a paladin as well as a knight, and 
wields a Holy Avenger sword. 

3. Tore is not the man's real name. He's 
actually an important noble from another land 
who's disguising his true identity for some 
reason. 

4. As well as being a warrior, Tore is a 
magic-user of great power, 

5. Tore's numerous duels are actually at the 
instigation of the king, Belvor is using Tore as 
an instrument to rid him of people he doesn't 
like. 

6. Tore is being forced into his duels by peo 
ple who are jealous of his position at Belvor's 
right hand. Tore doesn't want to fight, and 
hates the necessity of the challenge. 

There are a couple of very valuable pieces 
of information that the PCs shouldn't get 
immediately; the DM should save these for 
the appropriate moments. First, when Tore 
arrived in town, he rented a room at The 
Wyrm. He paid for this room for a month in 
advance before he knew he would be invited 
to stay at the palace. The room is still held for 
him in case he should return, and will be held 
until the advance payment runs out three days 
after the PCs' arrival. Second, the house in 
which Tore was supposedly born is still stand 
ing. It's a small dwelling on Windward Avenue 
in the merchants quarter. 

The PCs will probably want to follow up one 
or both of these leads. 

Masquerade 

There is considerably more to Tore than 
meets the eye. As Arlina stated, he's not of 
this plane. In fact, Tore (not his true name, of 
course) in real form is a huge ancient red 
dragon bound into the service of the evil deity 
NerulL bestow r ed with some special powers, 
and poiymorphed into human form. The real 
Tore is dead, and the dragon has assumed his 
identity. 

Nerull brought the dragon forth from Tar- 
terus to the Prime Material Plane and 
assigned it/him the goal of ingratiating himself 
with the king and bending the monarch slowly 
toward evil. "Tore" is required to accomplish 
this goal without using any magic on the king 
himself (the better to avoid suspicion and 
detection). Although the dragon can assume 
its real form any time it desires, it is ordered 
not to reveal itself in this way unless its life is 
in danger-which would also indicate that it 
had failed in its mission. 

Since there is no rigid schedule for comple 
tion of his mission, Nerull and Tore (the 
dragon's real name is Nex, meaning "violent 


86 









death") have spent a lot of time in prepara 
tion, The deity looked around for an appropri 
ate victim to use for the masquerade. The 
young Tore was perfect: a disaffected youth 
leaving home alone for high adventure. The 
young man found adventure, all right-in the 
form of the red dragon* Nex slew him immedi 
ately and was then polymorphed by Nerull 
into the young man's form. 

Over the next years, Torc/Nex fought in the 
armies of the Shield Lands, Because of his 
great strength-and discreet use of magic- 
he proved totally invincible in combat. Soon 
he came to the notice of his commanding offi 
cers, and was rewarded with a knighthood 
(the ultimate irony). 

The last step in the preparation took the 
longest: finding a way to defeat the paladin- 
king's innate detect evil and protection from 
evil abilities* He finally found the solution, in 
the person of a wandering mage from the City 
of Grey hawk, an expert on magics related to 
alignment. He tormented the poor wizard into 
creating for him an amuiet of neutrality that 
"shielded" his evil nature and made him seem 


neutral to all dweomers* (Thus, know align 
ment , etc., will show Tore to be lawful neu 
tral, and protection from evil and equivalent 
spells won't keep him away.) The amulet isn't 
all-powerful; for instance, it takes a great 
effort of will for Tore to be able to touch the 
king, but he can do it. 

When it was time, Tore prepared to return 
to Chendl. It was, of course, Tore himself who 
terrorized the hobgoblins into ambushing the 
king's hunting party, giving Tore the opportu 
nity for his grand entrance. (The fact that he 
rewarded the hobgoblins for their help by 
slaying them all doesn't bother him, of 
course*} 

Tore: AC '3; MV 6'715" (12" in human 
form); HD 13; hp 67; #AT2; Dmg 5-8/7-12 or 
by weapon ( + 6 strength bonus); THACO 6; 
AL LE; SA magic use; SD only hit by +2 or 
better weapon. 

In human form, Tore does not have access 
to most of the general abilities of a red dragon 
(no flying, no breath weapon), but he does 
have other abilities bestowed upon him by 
Nerull. Tore's spell-like abilities include charm 


person, suggestion, illusion, infravision, tele 
portation (no error), know alignment, pyro 
technics. detect magic T detect invisible, hold 
person , and fear (20' radius). Once per day he 
can use a symbol ofpain. He regenerates 2 hit 
points of damage per round. In human form, 
Tore prefers to use a two-handed sword (if he 
is challenged to a duel, this weapon would be 
his first choice) . His strength is 18/00, giving 
him a bonus of +3 "to hit" and +6 on dam 
age, He never wears armor. He always wears 
his amulet of neutrality {see above) around his 
neck, whether in human or dragon form. 

The Wyrm 

The Wyrm is a top-quality inn near the w ails of 
the Inner City. Its bar and dining room are 
tastefully appointed, and the rooms to be 
rented upstairs are quite luxurious* The sign 
out front depicts a serpentine gold dragon. 

The clerk at the desk is all politeness , * , 
until and unless he realizes that the PCs aren't 
interested in renting a room* Then he 
becomes cold and officious. He will admit that 
Tore has a room here, but he will certainly not 



87 











tell the PCs which room it is, or willingly let 
them enter it. if the PCs offer him a bribe of 5 
g.p. or more, however, he'll tell them that 
Tore's room is number five at the top of the 
stairs, and that it's empty. He still won't let 
the PCs in, but for another gold piece or two 
he'll look the other way while the PCs go 
upstairs, if at any time the PCs make any 
noise or start a disturbance (kick down a door, 
fight with a guest, etc.), or if a guest catches 
them trying to pick the lock on room five, the 
clerk will be forced to call for the police. A 
patrol will arrive 2-6 rounds after he raises the 
alarm. 

Clerk-zero-level human : AC 10; MV 12"; 
hp 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4 (dagger kept under 
counter, in case of robbery); THACO 20; AL 
LN. 

The door to room five is, of course, locked. 
The upper hallway is deserted when PCs 
arrive at the threshold, but there's a 50% 
chance each round that a guest will emerge 
from one of the other rooms. Unless the PCs 
are blatantly trying to pick the lock, the guest 
will wish them good day, pass them by and go 
downstairs, if they look as though they're 
doing something suspicious, however, the 
guest will start a commotion, asking them what 
they think they're doing, and will eventually 
yell downstairs to the clerk to fetch the police. 

Guest-7th level fighter: AC 10; MV 12"; 
HD 7; hp 49; 0AT 3/2; Dmg 1-6 (shortsword in 
room); THACO 14; AL LG. 


As the clerk told you, room five is empty. 
Against the far wall, under the window, is a 
bed. A low cabinet serving as a bedside 
table holds an empty bud vase. A ward 
robe stands against another wall. 


Tore stayed one night here before moving to 
the palace. He packed up all his possessions 
when he moved . . . except for one thing he 
forgot. The item he left behind is a book that 
fell off the bedside cabinet and slipped dowm 
between it and the wall (easy to find, but only 
if a PC is actively looking). 


It's a small book, not much larger than the 
palm of a man's hand, bound in black leath 
er. On the front cover, embossed in red, is 
a symbol that looks somewhat like a 
scythe. As you open the book and flip 
through the pages, you realize it's a form 
of journal or diary * * . but one unlike any 
you've ever seen before. The writing 
inside, in red ink, is in a harsh, jaggedly 
ugly script. None of you can read the lan 
guage, but you feel certain the writing isn't 
discussing gardening, , , . 

On the last written page is another sym 


bol, sketched by hand in the same red ink: 
a four-armed cross of some kind that looks 
like a throwing star. 


The book is Tore's diary of his deception. 
Since moving into the palace, he's had no 
chance to write in it in private, so he hasn't 
noticed that it's missing. The scythe symbol 
on the front cover indicates a connection with 
Nerull (the Reaper), but this may not be 
immediately recognized by the PCs. The 
hand-drawn symbol near the back of the book 
is the symbol for the Scarlet Brotherhood (as 
taken from the group's coat of arms). Any 
bard or sage will immediately recognize the 
significance of these symbols. Other charac 
ters must make a 6d6 Intelligence Check to 
recognize the symbol of Nerull and a 5d6 
Intelligence Check to recognize the symbol of 
the Scarlet Brotherhood, 

The writing within is "Death tongue/' the 
written language used in Tarterus, and is 
totally untranslatable even through magic. 
The last entry in the diary was made after 
Tore had saved the king from the hobgoblin 
raiders. One of the king's aides had been 
killed, and Tore noticed a small, four-armed 
symbol tattooed on the dead man's chest; 
nobody else noticed, so Tore didn't draw 
attention to it. He didn't recognize the sym 
bol, but thought it might prove important 
someday, so he reproduced it in his diary. (In 
fact, the dead aide had been one of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood's "moles" in Chendl. The PCs 
won't know this, of course, and might come to 
the conclusion that the Scarlet Brotherhood is 
somehow connected with Nerull and Tore.) 

The book might be sold to the right buyer (a 
sage, perhaps) for up to 5,000 g.p.; nobody 
else will recognize its value, although some 
one might buy it (for much less) as a curio. 
There is nothing else of value or interest in 
the room. 

Homecoming 

The address the PCs were given for Tore's 
birthplace leads them to the merchants quar 
ter, and a rather narrow and (by Chendl s 
standards, at least) nondescript road; Wind 
ward Avenue. The house itself is small. 

The house looks empty, but if the PCs 
knock on the door, they hear somebody mov 
ing inside. After a moment, the door opens. 


A beautiful woman-slender and statu 
esque, with rich auburn hair, barely wear 
ing something white and diaphan 
ous-stands in the doorway, bathing you in 
the warmth of her smile. But then she 
looks perplexedly from one to the other of 
you and her smile fades. 


"Ail of you?" she asks in a mellifluous 
voice. "We don't normally cater to so 
many at once. But I'll see what we can do." 


It should fairly quickly become apparent to the 
PCs that the house is now a brothel. Unless 
they want to take the time to pursue other 
matters within, they soon learn that none of 
the girls know anything about people who 
lived here before, nor do they care. 


As you step outside again, you notice some 
body watching you from across the street. 
She's a little old lady, silver-haired and 
stooped, standing in the doorway of one of 
the facing houses. Though her free shows 
her years, her eyes are bright and alert. 
She smiles at you and beckons you over. 

"I'm Marla," she says in a chirpy little 
voice. "I see you met my neighbors. But 
they weren't exactly what you'd come for, 
hm?" 


If the PCs explain that they're seeking infor 
mation about Tore, they see a sudden change 
come over the lady. 


For a moment she looks forlorn, and her 
bright eyes mist. But then she pulls herself 
together. 

"I know Tore," Marla says quietly. "He 
was my son. WfeJl, not my real son-I nev 
er had children of my own. But when his 
parents died in that tragic accident, he was 
still so young. So I took him in and 1 raised 
him as mine. He called me his mother." 
Again her eyes mist. "Would you like to 
see his room?" 


If the PCs agree, she leads them inside her 
house and upstairs. 


The bedroom is small, with a single bed, a 
wardrobe and a tiny table. It's decorated 
as though it belongs to a young boy: draw 
ings of knights on the walls, a small bow 
and a wooden sword carefuEy propped up 
in the comer. Even though the room is 
spotless, you feel that it's not used, 

"I keep it clean," Marla says. "I keep it 
just like it was when he went away, in case 
he ever comes back." 

She leads you back downstairs. "I know 
he's in the city," she tells you. Tm so glad for 
him, he's done so w f ell for himself. Knight, 
hero, friend of His Majesty and all. He's so 
busy." She pauses, and seems to look off into 
the distance, "But still. I wish he'd come and 
visit me one day. just so I can look into those 
bright blue eyes one more time. *, " 


88 















If the PCs question Marla further, she'll con- 
firm that the Tore she raised did in fact have 
strikingly blue eyes. (The Tore who's friends 
with the king has brown eyes-a detail that 
Nendl missed when he polymorphed the 
dragon.) She*11 also give more details about 
the death of Tore's parents (a tragic accident 
with a laden wagon and a steep hill) and about 
lore's childhood: DMs can be as creative as 
they like here. 

Tbrc will not recognize Marla, should the 


PCs orchestrate a meeting. She, on the other 
hand, will at first think that he is the Tore she 
knew, but then change her mind after a few 
seconds: he looks like Tore, but he isn't. . . . 

Boon Companion 

There are a number of further complications 
to make the players' lives more difficult. The 
DM should insert them when most (in)con 
venient. 

The first complication is provided by a half 


elf named Merrin Hailek whom the PCs meet 
early in their stay in Chendl. Merrin is outgo 
ing and jovial, a real "hail fellow well met" 
type and a great drinking buddy/boon compan 
ion. When he meets the PCs, he introduces 
himself as a fighter (with a little thieving back 
ground, he admits, "but that was years ago"). 
He's new to the city as well, he claims, Merrin 
does everything he can to be accepted by the 
PCs, to become their drinking buddy. He's 
affable, with a sharp sense of humor, and 
pleasant to have around, so he might be quite 
successful. 

Of course there are hidden depths to Mer 
rin Hallek. Rather than a fighter/thief, he's an 
assassin, and a member of the Scarlet Broth 
erhood. He's done the necessary background 
to maintain the masquerade, and nobody can 
find him out. 

By now. the members of the Scarlet Broth 
erhood have given up hope of stopping the 
PCs by indirect action. They realize that 
direct action is necessary, and that's where 
Merrin comes in. His job is to insinuate him 
self into the PCs' trust and either kill them all 
himself (a tough task) or find out enough about 
their plans and movements to call in help to 
take them out. 

Merrin Hallek-9th level assassin: AC 8 
(leather): MV 12"; HD 9; hp 22; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-4 (dagger): THACO 16: AL N(E); SA assas 
sination, backstab. Thief skills: PP 70%, OL 
52%, FT 50%, MS 55%, HS 48%, HN 25%, 
CW 94%, RL 35%. 

Concealed in his pouch, Merrin has a small 
bottle containing three doses of type D inges- 
tive poison. Over his leather armor, Merrin 
wears a loose-fitting gray-green robe. He has 
an open, honest face and an easy laugh, 

Merrin is a devoted member of the Broth 
erhood. He's been ordered not to be taken 
alive, and he takes these instructions very 
seriously. If he does something that reveals 
his true nature to the PCs and they try to cap 
ture and interrogate him, he kills himself in 
the most expedient way. (Unless the PCs are 
expecting this behavior in advance, they'll 
probably be too surprised to stop him.) 

Merrin will only try to kill the PCs himself if 
he thinks he can successfully slay them all. If 
there's even a little doubt in his mind, he'll go 
to plan B. 

Plan B involves finding out where the PCs 
are staying. Once he knows the inn and the 
room, he gets the word to some other Breth 
ren, and they stage a midnight raid on the 
PCs. The raiding party consists of five 4th 
level assassins led by a 7th level monk; all are 
human. Using the most appropriate means 
(probably the window), they enter the PCs' 
room and try to kill them all while they sleep. 

Assassins-ith level (5): AC 8 (leather); 
MV 12"; HD 4; hp 13,15,15, 16, 23; MT 1; 











Dmg by weapon (see below); THACQ 20; AL 
LE, Thief skills: PP 35%, OL 29%, FT 25%, 
MS 21%, HS 15%, HN 10%, CW 86%, The 
assassins all wear black leather and are armed 
with light crossbows, shortswords, and dag 
gers, The daggers are coated with type B 
insinuative poison. 

Monk-7th level: AC 5; MV 21"; HD 7; hp 
27; #AT 3/2; Dmg 3-9 or 1-8 (longsword) or 1- 

4 (dagger); THACO 16; AL LE; SA +3 dam 
age bonus, stun/kill, plus see below; SD 
dodge nonmagical missiles, 22% chance of 
being surprised, plus see below. Thief skills: 
OL 52%, FT 50%, MS 55%, HS 43%, HN 
25%, CW94%. The monk wears a black skin 
tight costume. The monk has certain other 
powers: speak with animals, 24% resistance 
to ESP t immune to diseases, immune to haste 
or s/ow, can fall 30 feet without damage, can 
feign death for 14 turns, can heal (by touch) 2- 

5 hp of damage each day. 

These people are a suicide squad: they're 
ordered to take their own lives if they're 
unsuccessful in killing all the PCs. Attackers 
who are rendered unconscious and thus 
unable to kill themselves will be killed by their 
colleagues. It should be extremely hard for 
the PCs to take anyone alive. If he's confident 
he can get away with it, the monk will use his 
feign death ability, then "rise from the dead" 
when the PCs are least expecting it and have 
another try at killing them. 

Monks in the Streets 
The members of the Scarlet Brotherhood 
have given up their stance of "no overt 
action." In fact, they're taking matters so 
seriously that they've openly sent some rep 
resentatives to Chendl to keep an eye on 
things. These Brethren, who openly display 
their true identity, are all 7th level monks (sta 
tistics similar to the monk who led the raid on 
the PCs), They wear the hooded red robes 
typical of their order, and each one is usually 
accompanied by three bodyguards. There are 
20 such monks in the city, but rarely are more 
than two seen together. They act aloof and 
withdrawn, and their bodyguards make it very 
difficult for people to talk to them. 

Bodyguards-3rd level fighters (3 per 
monk): AC 6 (scale mail); MV 9"; HD 3; hp 3- 
30; MT 1; Dmg 1-4 (light crossbow) or 2-8 
(broadsword); THACO 18; AL LE. 

The PCs need not necessarily see these 
monks, but they should hear of their presence 
(the red-cloaked figures are great topics for 
gossip, after all). If the PCs do see one, it 
should be in a situation where they can't free 
ly attack the monk. 

There are other members of the Brother 
hood m town, of course, but most of these are 
fighters and assassins, and in disguise. 

As if the monks of the Scarlet Brotherhood 


weren't enough, there are a number of fol 
lowers of Istus in town. There is an important 
religious festival going on at the small temple 
to Istus. Some 150 pilgrims are in town at the 
moment, most of them zero-level humans, 
with a handful of clerics accompanying them. 
There's considerable friction between the pil 
grims and the regalia-clad monks of the Scar 
let Brotherhood: each group looks on the 
other with distrust and dislike. 

Many of the pilgrims fit the mold of the ster 
eotypical Istus worshiper: cynical and rather 
aggravating. At one point, several pilgrims 
irritate a couple of monks past all control (get 
ting in street brawls is not uncommon for the 
typical Istus worshiper. The monks lay the pil 
grims out with very lit tie ado, and that's the 
start of open unpleasantness between the two 
groups. Over the next several days, matters 
begin to escalate, and the PCs witness or hear 
about scattered brawls between pilgrims and 
monks or their bodyguards. 

The police force of Chendl tries valiantly to 
keep the peace, attempting to keep the two 
groups separate, but that's almost impossible. 
Anyone caught disturbing the peace is quickly 
hustled off to jail, and within 24 hours of the 
first clash several dozen pilgrims are cooling 
their heels behind bars. The major conse 
quence to the PCs is that the police patrols are 
a lot quicker to come down on any distur 
bance, and a lot more likely to arrest anyone 
even peripherally involved. 

At the DM's discretion, the PCs can 
become more personally involved in the 
"troubles." While walking through the city, 
they witness three pilgrims-two men and a 
woman-getting the stuffing beaten out of 
them by three Brotherhood bodyguards (a 
monk is nowhere to be seen). 

Pilgrims-zero-level humans (3): AC 10; 
MV 12"; hp2,4,4; #AT 1; Dmg 1 or by weap 
on (presently unarmed); THACO 20; AL N. 

Bodyguards-3rd level fighters (3): AC 6 
(scale mail); MV 9"; HD 3; hp 14,22, 24; #AT 
1; Dmg 1-4 (light crossbow) or 1-8 (broad 
sword); THACO 18; AL LE, 

The bodyguards aren't trying to kill the pil 
grims, they're just thrashing them unmerci 
fully with sheathed swords, unloaded 
crossbows, fists, etc. If the PCs get into the 
fray, however, the bodyguards will certainly 
draw steel and fight in earnest. If the PCs do 
become involved, four rounds after the start 
of hostilities a police patrol (10 privates, a ser 
geant, and a 5th level magic-user; statistics as 
given above) arrives to break things up. 
Unless the PCs can do some fast talking, 
they're quite likely to end up in jail. K they 
explain that they were saving the pilgrims, 
however-the pilgrims will back them up on 
this-and the police officer believes them, 
only the bodyguards will be arrested. 


Into the Inner City 

Eventually the PCs must make an expedition 
into the Inner City, The gates to the Inner 
City always stand open, and four soldiers from 
the House Regiment stand watch at each one. 
This guard duty is more ceremonial than func 
tional. Although the guards will definitely 
glare at the "common" PCs if they have the 
temerity to enter the Inner City, they won't 
do anything to bar entrance. 

People who belong in the Inner City might 
not know everyone else so privileged, but 
they do seem to have an innate ability to rec 
ognize people who don't belong. The PCs will 
find that people treat them very coldly, almost 
rudely. If the PCs step over the bounds of pro 
priety while in the Inner City, they're much 
more likely to get challenged to a duel than 
would be the case outside the walls in Greater 
Chendl. 

At the core of the Inner City is the royal pal 
ace, a magnificent edifice of gold-veined white 
marble. In the midst of the palace compound is 
a gleaming dome of glassteel (the king's arbo 
retum), while above everything floats the 
king's pleasure garden. 

Even though the king is generally well loved 
by his people, he has the sense to take pre 
cautions against assassins. The palace is 
guarded and warded so as to make unauthor 
ized entry almost impossible. Day and night, 
the House Regiment patrols the walls, 
grounds, and halls, with orders to attack 
intruders on sight and question any survivors 
afterward. Walls are topped with arrays of 
nee die-sharp barbed spikes that do 2-20 
points of damage to anyone trying to climb 
over who doesn't take precautions. All win 
dows are barred, and the bars are dweomered 
with variants of shocking grasp and magic 
mouth: touching a bar causes 3-30 points of 
electrical damage (save vs. wands for half 
damage) and triggers a magic mouth which 
calls out " intruders 1" The noise summons a 
House Regiment patrol within two rounds. At 
night, three watch-leopards are set loose in 
the grounds. These leopards are trained to 
attack any intruders, and to do it silently. 

Leopards (3): AC 6; MV 12"; HD 3 + 2; hp 
19. 20, 22; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA rear 
claws for 1- 4/14; SD surprised only on a 1; 
THACO 16; AL N. 

Unauthorized access to the palace is nearly 
impossible; authorized access isn't much eas- j 
ier. Most of the actual governing of Chendl 
and Furyondy as a whole is done through the 1 
city administration and the executive arm of | 
the government. This means that the king's | 
main duties are making policy decisions and 
handling diplomatic relations with other lands. 
Thus, there's no need for him to hold regular 
audiences where the people can see their I 
monarch in person. To gain an audience with I 


90 






the king, the PCs must work their way up 
through the country's labyrinthine bureaucra 
cy. At each step of the way, convincing rea 
sons why the audience is necessary will be 
required. The general route that any request 
must take is roughly this: junior civil servant, 
councilor, deputy minister, minister, then 
king's chamberlain (with other possible steps 
in between). Each level must be satisfied that 
the audience is in the best interest of king and 
country, (Remember that the truth-that the 
PCs believe Tore to be an evil person-or 
creature-won't he believed, and will proba 
bly get the PCs put away as mental cases,) 
The whole bureaucratic nightmare might take 
anywhere up to two months before the PCs 
can see the king. 

Note to the DM: If the players decide they 
want to try this route, play the bureaucratic 
rigmarole to the hilt. As a suggestion for role- 
playing, remember any time you've tried to 
light city hall or appeal a tax bill. ("Sorry, you 
need to fill out form 15687-AX slash B. You 
can get form 15687-AX slash B from the clerk 
in room 101, which is open from one to one- 
thirty on alternate Fridays. Have a nice day") 

Dealing with Tore 

After experiencing the joys of coping with 
Cherub's bureaucracy, the PCs will probably 
decide to try another tack. They can very eas 
ily find out that the king goes hunting with 
Tore every few days, and might decide the 
trips offer an opportunity to do something. 
The king's hunting party usually consists of 
himself, Tore, and assorted other young 
nobles, plus several squires. A party is never 
smaller than ten people, but rarely larger than 
fifteen. All are unarmored (AC 10, before 
adjustments) and mounted on light horses; 
the king, Tore, and the nobles are armed with 
spears or longbows (depending on what game 
they're after), while the squires bear 
shorts words and daggers. When the king 
leaves the palace, he always wears a belt with 
an enchanted buckle. This device surrounds 
the wearer with a 15-foot-radius anti-magic 
shell and a 10-foot radius aura of protection 
from normal missiles. (This setup is purpose 
ful: an enchanted missile is made nonmagical 
by the shell and then diverted by the protec 
tion). Since Tbrc habitually rides right next to 
the king so they can talk, he is almost always 
protected by the belt's magic. 

While within the city, the hunting party is 
flanked by an honor guard of ten soldiers from 
the House Regiment . Their job is to prevent 
anyone from reaching the king, and they take 
it very seriously. 

Nobles^fighters of 5th-8th level (3-5): AC 
10; MV 12"; HD 5-8 (ld4 + 4); hp variable; 
#AT 1 or 3/2; Dmg 1-6 (longbow or spear); 
THACO 16 to 13; AL LG, 


Squires-1st level fighters (5- 8): AC 10; 
MV 12"; HD 1; hp 1-10; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(shortsword) or 1-4 (dagger); THACO 20; AL 
LG. 

The hunting party takes the most direct 
route from the palace to the dty gate. The 
best hunting is to the north of the city, so they 
usually leave by that gate. 

If the PCs attempt to talk to the king, the 
House Regiment guards will do their best to 
prevent it. Outside the city, when the guards 
aren't there, the other nobles and the squires 
will do their best to prevent the PCs from 
bothering the king. If the PCs find some way 
to talk to the king and mention the story Arlina 
has told them, the king will laugh it off. Even if 
they have the testimony of Marla, the king 
would rather believe that the old woman's 
memory has gone bad than that his companion 
is a threat. 

The PCs will probably soon realize that the 
only place they can get a crack at killing Tore is 
on the Field of Honor. (If the PCs don't think 
of this option by themselves, they might over 
hear a conversation about an impending duel 
between two nobles, to plant the seed of the 
idea,) 

There's more to this than just walking up to 
Tore and challenging him, however. First of 
all, since he and the king are almost insepara 
ble, the precautions to protect the king also 
make it difficult for the PCs to reach Tbrc. 

Second, the PC inciting the duel-for obvi 
ous reasons, a paladin PC would be the best 
choice-must make Tore challenge him, or 
make Tore insult the PC so badly that a chal 
lenge is unavoidable. There are several rea 
sons for this. The first is that the king has 
been privately worried about the casual man 
ner in which Tore slays people in duels. To 
minimize the loss of life among the nobility, 
he's decided that he will personally disallow 
any "frivolous" challenges concerning Tore- 
that is, any challenge for an offense that the 
king doesn't think serious enough to warrant 
death. If the PC were to simply walk up to 
Tore and challenge him for no obvious reason, 
Belvor would disallow the duel. 

The second reason is that Tore has heard, 
through occasional remarks from guards and 
townsfolk, that the PCs are unusually inter 
ested in him and may be out to get him for 
some reason. Tore realizes that their best 
chance of confronting him is to get him onto 
the Field of Honor. Therefore, he won't issue 
a challenge unless he has no choice. 

And the situation might develop so that he 
does have no choice. Manners are codified in 
Chendl, and there are certain unwritten rules 
concerning challenges. There are certain 
insults that, by immutable custom, must be 
answered by a challenge. These are direct 
accusations of cowardice, accusations of sex 


ual inadequacy, aberration or infidelity, and 
insults directed at dead ancestors. To keep 
from being found out or removed from his 
position of influence, Tore must abide by the 
customs of Chendl. Thus, if the PC hits on any 
of these insults, Tore is honor-bound to issue a 
challenge. 

A confrontation between a PC and Tore is an 
excellent opportunity for deeply character 
ized role-playing. The DM should remember 
that Tore is, at his core, an evil being who 
finds patience and forbearance quite foreign to 
his nature. On the other hand, as a red 
dragon, his intelligence is quite high (a score 
of 15-16), and so he won't be easy to sucker 
in. 

If the PCs don't hit on this method of deal 
ing with Tore, the DM should subtly channel 
them in this direction. 

The Field of Honor 

If the PCs can engineer a challenge, the duel is 
scheduled to take place the next day at dawn. 
The site is the Field of Honor, just outside the 
walls of the Inner City. Since this duel involves 
a member of the nobility, it's a big event, one 
circumscribed by custom and convention. 

The Field of Honor is a large grass field. In 
its center is a circle, some 300 feet in diame 
ter, its circumference marked out with white 
lime. This is where the duel itself takes place. 
Only the combatants can enter the circle, and 
neither can leave again until one is van 
quished, At the exact center of the circle, bur 
ied so that its top is flush with the ground, is a 
small block of marble. This has been enchant 
ed so as to emanate a field of protection from 
normal missiles (similar to the king's belt 
buckle). This effect is 150 feet in radius (in 
other words, it extends to the periphery of 
the duel circle). This dweomer is permanent, 
and has the purpose of ensuring that no out 
side interference can affect the duel. 

Around the periphery of the circle stand the 
combatants' seconds and friends, a referee (in 
this case, Belvor himself has volunteered for 
the duty), and any spectators who desired to 
attend. Because Tore is so well known-and 
because his other duels have proved to be 
exciting shows-there's quite an audience out 
for this event. 

Belvor is flanked by a detachment of eight 
soldiers from the House Regiment, all armed 
with heavy crossbows and broadswords, and 
there are an additional 16 soldiers similarly 
equipped spaced evenly around the circle. As 
well as acting as bodyguards for the king, they 
have the duty of immediately slaying anyone 
in the audience who attempts to interfere with 
the duel (for example, anyone who is obvious 
ly preparing to cast, or has just cast, a spell). 
As referee, Belvor is responsible for seeing 
that all rules are obeyed. While he would obvi- 


91 






ously like to see his friend victorious, he can't 
interfere in any way. 

In the duel, both combatants must use simi 
lar weapons (both longs words, or both maces, 
for example). The challenged party gets to 
choose the weapon used, but custom dictates 
that he or she must select a weapon that the 
other party is not forbidden (thus someone 
challenged by a cleric, for example, couldn't 
select a bastard sword). There is no require 
ment that the challenged party select a weap 
on in which the challenger is proficient, 
however (this is a point of strategy if one party 
knows the weapon proficiencies of the other). 
No spells or magic items can be used within 
the circle. The only exception is enchanted 
weapons: they are perfectly acceptable. 

Just before dawn, Belvor orders both com 
batants into the circle. As the sun appears 
above the horizon, he signals for the duel to 
begin. 

Abiding by the constraints of custom. Tore 
fights in human form without using any of his 
magical powers (apart from hit-point regener 
ation, which he can perform unnoticed and 
undetected). When he's reduced to 20 hit 
points, his anger overcomes his desire to win 
fairly, and he takes on his true form. He also 
uses any and all of his other powers-the 
standard abilities of a red dragon , plus the abil 
ities granted to him by Nerull-in his attempt 
to kill the PC. Tore, in his dragon form, cannot 
be subdued. 

As soon as Tore shows his true nature, all 
hell breaks loose on the sidelines. The audi 
ence panics and flees. The House Regiment 
soldiers follow their standing orders and 
immediately form a protective phalanx around 
the king. They then hustle him as quickly as 
possible back to the palace. When the ordered 
duel breaks down, all bets are off as far as the 
other PCs are concerned: there's no one to 
prevent them from joining in the fray. 

If the PCs succeed in destroying Tore, his 
body ignites and bums to ashes (Nerull's ret 
ribution). If the PCs don't react immediately 
and pull Tore's amulet of neutrality from the 
flames (at the cost of 2-20 points of bum dam 
age), it is destroyed with the dragon. 

Final Ambush 

By the time the dragon is destroyed, there's 
no sign of the king and his entourage (they're 
safely back in the palace). 

Among the audience were two Scarlet 
Brotherhood monks, in disguise as mer 
chants, Although they fled with the rest, they 
quickly realized that, if the dragon didn't slay 
the PCs, at least it would weaken them seri 
ously. The monks know (through the work of 
Merrin Hallek) where the PCs stay, so they 
decide to set up an ambush. They choose the 
most appropriate place between the Field of 


Honor and the PCs' accommodations, and 
wait for the PCs to pass by. When they do, the 
monks attack. As before, the monks will take 
their own lives rather than be taken prisoner. 

Monks-7th level (2): AC 5; MV 21"; HD 
7; hp 21, 28: MT 3/2: Dmg 3-9 or 1-8 (scimi 
tar); THACO 16; AL LE; SA +3 damage 
bonus, stun/kill, plus see below; SD dodge 
uonmagical missiles, 22% chance of being sur 
prised, plus see below. Thief skills: OL 52%, 
FT 50%, MS 55%, HS 43%, HN 25%, CW 
94%. The monks have certain other powers: 
speak with animals, 24% resistance to ESP, 
immune to diseases, immune to haste or 
slow, can fall 30 feet without damage, can 
feign death for 14 turns, can heal 2-5 hp of 
damage each day. 

Concluding the Adventure 

When Tore has been dealt with, the PCs might 
try to find Arlina. There's no sign of her any 
where, however. If the PCs visit the temple to 
Istus and ask about her there, the clerics will 
deny ever having met someone named Arlina. 

Soon after the duel, the PCs are met- 
either on the street or in their accom 
modations-by a messenger. He tells the PCs 
that someone wishes to see them, and asks 
them to follow him. He'll tell them no more 
until they accompany him to their destination* 

The messenger leads the PCs to an attrac 
tive but not excessively lavish house in the 
Inner City. He leaves them at the door and 
instructs them to go in. 


Sitting in the main room is His Pious Maj 
esty, King Belvor IV. He looks you over 
appraisingly as you enter. 

"You must understand me," he says 
without preamble, "The duel today, the, 
er, unexpected events . . * None of that 
happened. It cannot have happened," 

He stands and begins to pace, a little 
nervously, "A people must have confi 
dence in their king," he continues, "How 
would that confidence suffer if the people 
came to know that their king had taken an 
evil dragon into his confidence? Had 
offered his friendship and trust to a crea 
ture who returned none of the same? No* 
None of that happened, 

-Til tell you how matters actually 
occurred. During the duel today, a red 
dragon came to kill me. My friend Tore 
attacked it and slew it, but at the cost of his 
own destruction. You were merely wit 
nesses to his final act of heroism. Do I 
make myself clear?" 


If this adventure is played stand- alone: 


The king continues, "At least the plague 
seems to be ending. I hear reports from 
the clinics that victims are beginning to 
recover. The disease must have been a 
foul sending from whatever power was 
controlling that dragon " 


If the adventure is played as part of the cam 
paign: 


The king looks searchingiy at you for a long 
moment. "You were in my dreams," he 
says at last. "As I slept, a crone came to 
me and showed me your faces* She told 
me that your destiny lies in the Free City 
of Verbobonc* You should follow your fate 
there, and see how it is intertwined with 
Carlan Dieg " 


In either case: 


"Kingship is nothing more than expedi 
ency," the king continues, "but expediency 
need not exclude gratitude " He slides a 
ring off his finger and puts it down on the 
table in front of you. For the first time, he 
smiles, "How silly of me* I seem to have 
lost a ring With that, he turns and leaves 
the room by a second door. 


The king has no intention of talking any fur 
ther with the PCs: he's said his piece, and 
kings don't have to explain themselves. If the 
PCs try to follow Belvor, they find their way 
blocked by six House Regiment soldiers. 
They are polite, hut inflexible. 

The ring the king left behind is a gold band 
studded with tiny emeralds and mounted with 
a huge diamond* The entire ring is worth 

10,000 g.p. 

The Judgment of Fate 

As far as Istus is concerned, to succeed in the 
test the PCs must destroy Tore, and they must 
do so without causing "undue loss of life." If, 
during the course of the adventure, the PCs 
have slain anyone non-evil in alignment (meaning 
almost anyone except for Tore and members of 
the Scarlet Brotherhood), the DM must decide 
whether the killing could reasonably have been 
avoided. If it could have been reasonably avoid 
ed, the PCs fail the Test of the Paladins. 

If the PCs fail to destroy Tore, all paladins in 
the Flanaess lose 1 point of constitution. This 
loss occurs at the instant that the last PC is 
killed (by Tore or otherwise), or when the PCs 
irrevocably decide to give up on the mission. 
If the DM judges that the PCs have failed 
through unnecessary killing, the loss occurs at 
the instant of the first unnecessary death* 


92 












Verbobonc 

Only scant information regarding Verbobonc is 
herein presented, DMs are encouraged to 
expand upon the information presented in the 
text which follows, and that which comprises 
the adventure. Verbobonc is an important city, 
and its affairs are a concern to many thou 
sands of people* 

Verbobonc has a current population of 12,500 
(up from 11,600 at the last census). The 
beings making up the population of Verbobonc 
are a strong lot indeed. Over the years they 
have been at the forefront of a continual war 
against evil. The Temple of Elemental Evil- 
now presumed abandoned after the Vis 
count's forces and other strong and 
good-hearted peoples rallied to destroy that 
fane place-is a constant reminder to the folk 
hereabouts that they must continually guard 
against the outsider, ft is not that they're 
paranoid-but they are cautious, a trait inher 
ent in most of their leaders. They are a fearful 
lot, given over to industry and true social and 
economical advancement. Many of the 
humans of Verbobonc (who represent the 
majority) are god-fearing souls, worshipping 
the Old Faith (druidic) or reserving their pray 
ers for St* Cuthbert of the Cudgel. In either 
case, religion figures into many of their events 
and repasts. Festivals are common, and the 
priests are everywhere to be seen. In all, the 
souls of Verbobonc are examples worthy of 
the respect of the Archdericy of Veluna, their 
more powerful ally in good causes. 

Approximately 1,000 gnomes and 800 syl 
van elves dwell in or near the city. This benign 
mixing of divergent races has had a telling 
effect on the layout and architecture of Verbo 
bonc. Trade is similarly affected, for the 
gnomes have set up establishments in the city 
to deal in the many gems brought forth from 
the rich mines in the Kron Hills, Thus, many 
of the gnomes present in Verbobonc are con 
nected with the various businesses here-and 
they have made parts of this city uniquely 
their own. A good portion of the sylvan elves 
live near and in the dty for several reasons, 
the primary one being that their dealings with 
humankind and gnomekind are peaceful and 
conducive to growth economically, a fact they 
no longer feel they can ignore due to the prox 
imity of evil and the possibility of another war. 
They have been content with minimal growth 
recently-the acquisition of land and metal- 
crafts, etc.-and in return they supply 
gnomes and humans alike with their wood 
craft, practice of herb lore, and tracking abili 
ties. As for their purchases, it is noted that 
these are always bought against the possibility 
of a future disaster (the acute cautiousness of 


the beings in and around Verbobonc showing 
through once more). Indeed, the elves are 
quite outspoken in their claim that the buying 
of land is a defensive measure and that the 
trading of goods is merely an outgrowth of 
intermingling societies. Indeed, they seem 
ingly wish nothing more than the druids do, 
but are obviously driven in some respect 
which would be foreign to the latter group. 
Perhaps the intermingling of customs-old 
and new-and religion has caused these par 
ticular elves to evolve socially. In any event, 
their actions of late have raised some eye 
brows. As for the impact upon Verbobonc, the 
city welcomes them as brothers. Their people 
have lent a keen eye to the stone-worked 
streets and buildings and have, in places, 
planted trees and flowers to make their lives 
more comfortable while they conduct busi 
ness* 

Viscount Wilfriek, Defender of the Faith- 
11th level fighter: AC -3 (adjusted); MV 6"; 
HD 11; hp 75; MT 3/2; Dmg 9-17; Str 18/68, 
Int 14, Wis 12, Dex 17, Con 16, Cha 16; 
THAC0 5; AL LN* Items carried/worn: shield 
+ 2 , bastard sword +3, three protection 
scrolls, and a bronze horn of Valhalla (a gift 
from the Archcleric of Veluna; all fighters 
summoned are berserkers of St. Cuthbert, 
each armed with a dub +2), 

Wilfriek is concerned about rumors that the 
Temple of Elemental Evil to the south is again 
active. He has cooperated with the Archcleric 
of Veluna in building a castle to defend the 
small village of Hommlet, which is not too far 
from the Temple's precincts (see Tl-4, Tem 
ple of Elemental Evil). Recently that project 
saw fruition, and only garrisoning the place 
remains to complete the handiwork started 
years ago. 

DM Note: The completion of the aforemen 
tioned castle transpired a couple of years after 
the events described in the initial version of 
T1 (The Village of Hommlet). It is assumed 
that the Temple's forces did not conquer the 
lands west and north but instead organized 
bands of humanoids from the south to raid the 
adjacent areas, not wanting to take a direct 
hand in the destruction of good until local fig 
ures aligned to that cause were assassinated* 
If the Temple forces conquered adjacent 
lands, then a stalemate has ensued since then, 
and no progress has been made either way. 
Wilfriek's dilemma will remain until he is con 
vinced one way or the other that the Temple is 
dead and forgotten or is indeed on the rise 
again. Locally, rumors abound; and the 
increased bandit and brigand activities, which 
were at one time noted only in the south, have 
become more apparent north of the Kron 
Hills* 

Wilfriek will not publicly announce his suspi 
cions, however. Silent desperation is the 


course now-and keeping alert* To this end he 
has raised certain reservist contingents one at 
a time, disguising their real reason for being 
organized with excuses about pirate activity 
along the Velverdyva. He is deep in the council 
of the druids, and trusts in their reports. In 
fact his personal friend, Jaroo, whom he 
adventured with as a young man, is still keep 
ing a watch on the events in and near Hom 
mlet. Twice a year Wilfriek visits his old 
friend; and at these times he is escorted by no 
less than four Knights of the Order of the Hart 
(Veluna)-all disguised, of course. 

\ferbobonc rests on a plain overlooking the 
Velverdyva River to the north* It is composed 
of solid granite supplied from nearby quarries 
in the Kron Hills. Its look is a mix of the old 
and new ages, a sprinkling of gnomish stifled 
by Gothic styles* Houses are primarily one 
story with or without cellars (a style influ 
enced by the gnome architect Snirthiglin, who 
drafted the first city plans for Verbobonc). 
Carved in the wall above the north gate (City 
Location #1) is the inscription, u Earth and 
Stone, Man and Gnome," which indicates the 
good relations between this civilization's 
human farmers and the nearby gnomes at the 
time of Verbobonc *s construction* 

Gnomes dwelling here will be found living in 
burrows, or "rents" (the gnomish word for 
"cellars"). There are hundreds of rents 
throughout the city, as well as many establish 
ments of normal sort-inns, taverns, etc.- 
dedicated to gnomekind. Humans will rarely 
be seen in these places, for good reason, but 
this is not always the case. In fact, most inns 
and taverns have accommodations for the big 
ger folk, though many a gnome innkeeper 
would be severely put out by more than three 
or four such boarders in one night* 

The sylvan elves of the city dwell in wooden 
houses surrounded by a plethora of plant life, 
including trees. Some of these dwellings, in 
fact, are simulations of trees. Each dwelling is 
modular and is easily built or tom down. 
Open-air gardens and resting areas are 
favored on the first story; the second story- 
reached by ladders, ropes or vines-consists 
of sleeping and eating quarters. At this time 
very few elven families dwell in Verbobonc 
(another case in point for elven tradition, inex 
plicably overlooked by this new breed of elven 
pioneers). Thus these ipt-houses (so named 
by the gnomes and humans alike, for the wood 
generally used in their construction) tend to 
be quite singular in aspect, depending a lot 
upon the occupant's taste. 

Politically, Verbobonc is in its prime. It is on 
better than favorable terms with Furyondy 
and the Archdericy; the gnomes are a peace 
ful lot concerned with their ability to sell raw 
and finished goods fast enough in the 
"human" market, and they see \ferbobonc as 


93 






a link in that exchange system-so at the very 
least they are neutrally disposed, and at the 
extreme represent a strong ally. The nearby 
elves-including those as far away as the 
Gnarley Forest in the eastern Kron Hills (see 
Guide to the World of Greyhawk , "An Over- 
view of Political Divisions")-are favorably 
disposed toward the Viscounty, and they, in 
fact, expect it to lead the way in the suppres 
sion of evil in the area. Militarily Verbobonc 
remains unorganized, except as noted above. 
The Viscount has a standing force of 150 men 
(heavy cavalry, light crossbowmen, and 
spearmen) and can raise three times that 
amount of veterans in one week's time. The 
militia is commanded by Mayor Velysin, a 


highly competent but aging man who took part 
in the suppression of the lemple years ago. 
Twelve hundred militia can be raised at a rate 
of 400 men per week. This represents the 
total available levy. In emergencies the peas 
antry can be armed and thus another 1,000 
soldiers can be fielded, but written law pro 
hibits their use beyond a two-mile radius of 
Verbobonc. 

Verbobonc Map Locations 

1. North Gate (High Gate) 

2. Inner Bailey 

3. Silver Lyre Inn 

4. Bronze Unicom Inn 


5, Brass Rail Tavern 

6, Inner Gate (Guard Gate) 

7, Macor's Merchant House 

8, Hilewy's Gnome Palace (comforts 

of home for gnomes; expensive) 

9, Rusty Nail Tavern 

10. Jala's Armory (independent) 

11. Kile's Spice Store 

12. General Stores 

13. Spruce Goose (inn for the wealthy) 

14. Maynard's Metal Emporium 

15. Nicchol's House of Silk 

16. Bams (stalls for rent) 

17. Be than *s Books (used/rare tomes, 

copies bought and sold, printer) 

18. Zeebei's Maroon Mon (inn) 


94 

















19* Red Don Inn 

20. Harvester's Theater (and forest) 

21. Players' Inn (for entertainers) 

22. Jamstav's Merchant House 

23. Lester's House of Cards (gambling) 

24. Molten Spigot (tavern) 

25. House of Jimm (resident gnome prince) 

26. Shrine to Fharlanghn 

27. Viscount's Outer Grounds 

28. "Grayfist," castle of the Viscount 

29. Segemm's Store of Collectibles 

30. Gotho's Clothes (all types, two floors) 
31 ? Gotho's Cheese House 

32. House of Haxx (noble family) 

33* Bensar's Wax W>rks (wax specialties) 


34. The Electrum Eel (inn for 

sailors/adventurers) 

35. Hamstid's Stables and Horse Sales 

36. Shrine to Istus 

37* Barlonn's Stoneworks 
38. Storage Bins 

39* Grandma Henri's House of Rest 
40* The Silver Consortium (mages, apotheca 
ries, alchemists, scholars, et. ah) 

41. Veera's Voluptuous Maidens (tavern) 

42* Inner City Gate (Castle Gate) 

43. Inner City Gate (North Gate) 

44. Nib's Importers 

45. ^rehouses 

46. Temple to St. Cuthbert 

47. Temple to Hieranius 


48, Pond of the Hart (religious meeting area) 

49* Ash Horn Stream 

50, South way Gate 

51* Inner City Gate {South Gate) 

52. Community House (political 

rallies, speeches, etc.) 

53. House for rent 

54. Kabora's Jewel of the Velverdyva (inn) 

55. Dieg Manor 

56. Barracks {heavy horse regiment) 

57. Barracks (medium archers) 

58. Jylee's Inn (catering to the famous) 

59* Barracks (heavy footmen and 

light footmen) 

60. Packard's Trough (tavern catering 
to soldiers) 


IUZS GAMBIT 


DM's Introduction 

This adventure is designed for a party of 4-6 
characters, each of 10th to 12th level. 
Uncommon character types are tested 
herein-every class (except for assassins) 
that has not been tested in the previous eight 
installments of the campaign* 

The party arrives at the plagued city of Ver- 
bobonc amidst rumors that the disease is a 
curse levied against the good folk hereabouts 
by the clerics and demons of the Temple of 
Elemental Evil, which is located south and 
east of here. Some people are actually running 
through the streets proclaiming various 
religious-doom ideas, trying to get others to 
flock to their causes. Most of the good folk- 
of which Verbobonc is mainly composed- 
ignore these outbursts. In fact, there is frank 
determinism on open display amid the terrible 
suffering. 

The PCs should be interested in locating 
one Carlan Dieg, the man whose name was 
mentioned in the information they discovered 
in Chendl. As the party starts on its journey to 
locate this gentleman, a deformed and dis 
eased man claiming to be a prophet of Boccob 
(actually Morgorath again, in magic-user trap 
pings) blocks their way: 


As you wander down a street attempting 
to get your bearings, a deformed and dis 
eased man in ragged magic-user garments 
blocks your path. Before anything can be 
done he raises his hand and speaks in a 
cracked, dry voice: "By Boccob 1 proph 
esy gratis! You look, and you'll find. Deep. 
Yes. Deep and under. You'll Dieg him up, 
but wifi not be happy, no. For it is his 
father's time, and the son has rooted; nay, 
he gnaws at the roots of good, awaiting its 
destruction from within!" 


If nothing is done to stop the old man, he con 
tinues to rattle off this seeming nonsense* If 
the characters flee from him, he follows at 
what can only be an impossible pace for one so 
seemingly handicapped* 


"Are your ears a-prickle? Good! Then 
know that there are ways to win your vic 
tory before the son's aware, but be 
stealthy! Ask the neighbors, do not go 
knocking; for announcements now work 
against you! Dieg is the answer, for Dieg is 
dead, yet Dieg is not! That's the riddle, 
and yet there's more. For when are neigh 
bors who were once friends no longer both 
yet both? Eyes can see yet be blind. . . " 


At this point, the man turns and hobbles away, 
no matter what is said or done. If pursued, he 
darts around the comer of a building and 
seems to vanish into thin air. 

Clue Synopsis 

The clues are hints toward two frightful facts; 
Carlan Dieg has been murdered, and someone 
has assumed his identity. The PCs should be 
guided in arriving at these two conclusions if 
they seem to have difficulty interpreting the 
clues, 

The man who has assumed Dieg's identity 
is actually Helthrax, a polymorphed high 
priest of Iuz. Helthrax disposed of Dieg 
months ago as part of the preliminary plan for 
inhabiting the cellar below his manor house 
(see the description of Dieg Manor which fol 
lows). Helthrax has populated those once- 
peaceful chambers with evil men, beasts, and 
worshipers of Iuz. He sees this as an answer 
to the outcry of evil against good in this 
locale-an outcry which the adherents of Ele 
mental Evil of this area seem deaf to. His 
interests are identical to those of his liege, 
Iuz, who has seen too many plans against 
good fail and has wasted too many years on 
the Temple of Elemental Evil and the insecure 
plans of Zuggtmoy's followers* Iuz now trusts 
in a secure partner, one whose base is firmly 
entrenched at Dorakaa. 


95 











As Dieg, Helthrax is now on bad terms with 
a number of neighbors whom the real Dieg 
was once friendly with. He has gleefully 
encouraged some less than savory folk to 
occupy the block, and one-time associates 
who respected Dieg are now against him even 
in the smallest matters. The neighbors will 
willingly relate this sudden "change" in an 
"old and dear friend," but will also counsel the 
adventurers not to pursue the matter, for it 
seems that Dieg is very ill tempered as of late 
and for the last two months has been receiving 
no guests. There is a 60% chance that any one 
of the neighbors talked to will even go so far 
as to mention the "window that Dieg plas 
tered shut." Inform the characters of this win 
dow's location (north side, west; see area 11 
in the Dieg Manor description). 

As for Helthrax *s plan: When the majority of 
the surrounding area's population is overcome 
by the plague (a boon-as he sees it-sent by 
something as hateful of mankind as he is), 
then his forces will attack, but only after mak 
ing sure that all of Verbobonc's important lead 
ers are assassinated (Wilfrick, high church 
officials, the mayor, etc.). In the chaos, 
Helthrax believes that he can take Verbobonc 
and hold it until the unified forces from the 
south (armies in the Gnarley Forest and those 
individual groups and followers of the Temple) 
arrive to secure the place. It is a bold, yet 
inspired, plan. With Verbobonc turned into a 
fortress for evil, and with the Velverdyva all 
but cut off, the forces of good will be hard 
pressed to maintain a concerted front against 
evil in the area. Yes, it is a bold plan. . . , 

City locations 153, 054, and 055 (see the map 
of Verbobonc in Ye Olde City Scroll) are of crit 
ical importance in the playing out of this 
adventure. Detailed descriptions of these 
buildings are given below, to be used when 
the PCs approach or enter one of the loca 
tions, 

#53: House for Rent 
A large two-story brick affair stands out as 
one of the finer-looking buildings on this block. 
A "For Rent" sign is tacked on the wall to the 
right of the door. The place looks quite desert 
ed. 

The owner lives in the house just west of 
here. If he is questioned about Dieg, he dams 
up and wishes the party a good day. If asked 
about the house, he responds that it's been 
rented, and that it was an oversight on his part 
not to remove the sign. In actuality, this man 
has been bribed by Dieg (Helthrax) to not rent 
the house until certain customers (actually 
those assassins whose targets are the high 
officials of \ferbobonc) appear. The tenants 
will arrive in one month. The owner, named 
Jarvos, is not aware of the subterfuge but is 


willing to wait because of the goodly sums of 
gold he receives from Dieg for doing so, Jar 
vos is a retired merchant from Dyvers. He 
will not fight if threatened with force. He car 
ries 12 g.p. ( 20 s.p., and 2 p.p. in a belt purse, 
but has no other apparent valuables. He has 
the keys for the house and his own abode bid 
den out of sight on a leather thong around his 
neck. 

#54: Jewel of the Velverdyv a 

As the PCs approach this place, they see an 
inn which, considering its size and the many 
horses and carriages parked near it, emits 
very little noise. An engraved and painted sign 
above the door indicates that this is the 
"Jewel of the Velverdyva"-a place, as the 
PCs realize soon after entering, that is 
renowned for its food, its drink, and the snob 
bishness of its patrons. 

The inn is not bustling with activity, though 
it is full. A well-dressed servant attends the 
PCs, leading them to the bar in the back 
(bypassing the main dining room). There, 
they may partake of the viands proffered. All 
food and drink is excellent. 

The barkeep is a jovial man named Gahr 
who initially lacks any information about Dieg 
that the PCs might be seeking. Helthrax's 
spies are everywhere in this place but at the 
back bar. They have been keeping dose track 
of the comings and goings of important city 
officials, since this is a place where such fig 
ures gather-ineluding Wilfrick, on occasion. 
The spies have no interest in the back bar, 
which is "reserved" for less important per 
sonages and visitors to the city. No matter 
what they do or how much they are willing to 
pay, the PCs will not be allowed to enter the 
main dining area where the "important" peo 
ple are. 

As a way of getting around this difficulty, the 
PCs could try to bribe the barkeep to give 
them or acquire for them some specific infor 
mation. He will agree to perform as many as 
three such services for a price of 50-100 g.p. 
per service, depending on the theoretical 
degree of difficulty involved in acquiring the 
information requested. Gahr is sharp, but 
there is only a 20% chance per service that he 
will actually come forward with some perti 
nent information, and then only if the charac 
ters had asked him in advance to perform his 
information-gathering in such a specific way 
which would lead to such an discovery. In all, 
even in the best of situations, Gahr will only 
be able to relate other workers' suspicions, 
which would indicate that strange people are 
spending a lot of time in the inn; that Dieg no 
longer frequents the inn, although he used to 
be a steady customer; and that the inn's 
guards have been talking to a lot of street ped 
dlers recently (pretty wenches in Helthrax's 


organization, who have been instructed to 
strike up friendships w T ith the guardsmen so 
that on the day of the assassinations they are 
occupied elsewhere), 

055: Dieg Manor 

This is a two-story wooden building recently 
painted gray. It was apparently a bad paint job, 
for faint red streaks are obvious beneath the 
light gray cover, making the building appear as 
if it has veins. The shrubbery and trees about 
the manor have grown somewhat out of con 
trol; the weed-covered cobbled walk leading 
to the front door shows evidence of being 
little-used. 

Entering the Manor 

It is assumed that the PCs will have made dis 
creet inquiries about Dieg Manor before 
approaching the place. If they've made a plan 
to enter the manor by day, the DM should 
make sure it is a good one. The servants and 
guards there are less active at night. Thus, 
try to encourage ideas of investigating the 
place during that time. Note that the top floor 
is virtually empty (and no map is included for 
it). If the PCs enter that way, the only direct 
route to the first floor is down the western 
stairs (area 4). If the characters are identified 
fleeing from the manor, it could go ill for 
them-Helthrax will try to have them found 
and assassinated. (Three 7th level thieves 
disguised as a trio of jugglers entertaining the 
sick will position themselves, wait for any of 
the PCs to pass by, and then backstab them 
with poisoned daggers +2\ save vs. poison at 
-4 or die. Each "juggler" strikes twice, 
using a dagger in each hand.) 

However, once committed to a sound plan 
the PCs should be encouraged to forge ahead. 
It's a mystery, for sure; but they have a suspi 
cion still that this is not a sideshow: it has 
something to do with the plague-and the 
solving of that dilemma is of utmost impor 
tance! 

Morgorath's Role: Morgorath will always be 
in the background, watching (either invisible 
by his Lady's will and thus undetectable even 
by extraordinary means, or from the Border 
Ethereal realm, where he can react to the par 
ty's moves). He will help the PCs once, but 
never in a life-or-death situation-if they get in 
that much trouble, they're on their own 
When the party is in need, ascertain which of 
the following assists will be most helpful: 

1, Finding several helpful potions in a 
secreted container they just happen to spot. 

2, Gaining bonuses on all saving throws, or 
improved ACs and/or hit points by breathing 
in a pocket of "fresh air," or by consuming 
some "strange looking" piece of food, etc. 

3, Replacing a weaker weapon just found 




96 









with a stronger one before its power is ascer 
tained. 

4. Supplying suggestions magically which 
impart warnings or provide necessary direc 
tions at crucial points. A cleric or magic-user 
in the party should receive these impressions, 
and these could be explained away as divinely 
inspired, depending on the case; or such 
impressions could seem to emanate from any 
newly acquired magical item. 

Dieg Manor Area Descriptions 
1, Manor House Door 


The cobbled walk leads up to a metal- 
banded wooden door. There is a single 
window, with shutters closed, on either 
wing. Nothing but silence permeates the 
air. 


The door is bolted and chained from the 
inside. Only appropriate spells or magic items 
can silently open the door. The door is thick 
and cannot be broken in easily; it takes two 


characters with a combined strength of 30 to 
do the job. Treat it as a magically held portal, 
with a defensive point value of 4. Anyone 
making excessive noise (pounding on the 
door, breaking it down, etc.) will attract the 
attention of the guards at area 3* 

2* Hallway 


You are in a plush hallway that has fallen 
into disuse. Dust is thick everywhere, and 
cobwebs hang from the ceiling. The tracks 
of some rodent disappear toward a shutter 
on the west wall, ahead of you. There is a 
door to the north. 


A hole has been burrowed out near the lower 
left side of the shutter. Peering through it 
reveals a space beyond, and perhaps (50% 
chance) a musty smell. The window beyond 
the shutter is definitely one of the hinged 
types and is apparently open. The shutter can 
be opened quietly by a successful attempt to 
open locks (this is done at +20% to the dice 


roll because of the simple latch system). The 
French windows beyond open outward. The 
space created is large enough for one human- 
sized being to climb through. Inside is what 
appears to be a bathing area (see area 12). 

3. Drawing Room 

If the characters made noise in area 1 or 2, the 
guards present here will be waiting in posi 
tions from where they can surprise the party. 
Otherwise, they are located in random places 
around the room, and may themselves be sur 
prised. 


You see a large drawing room carpeted in 
blue. There is a fireplace where a small fire 
has recently been lit. 


As the PCs enter, combat begins with the 
brigand guards stationed here. The six brig 
ands are led by Therkle, a fighter who has 
been masquerading as a rich traveling mer 
chant in order to spy on city officials at the 
"Jewel." If the PCs have visited the inn and 


















bribed the bartender, there is a 10% chance 
per PC in the party {maximum 60%) that one 
of them will recognize Therkle as one of the 
people described by the inn's workers who 
has spent a lot of time at the inn recently. 

Therkle-7th level fighter: AC 7 (padded); 
MV 12"; HD 7; hp 47; #AT 3/2; Dmg 1-4 
(dagger); THACO16; AL CE;SA one applica 
tion of type D insinuative poison on dagger. 
Items carried: potion ofclairaudiance, scroll of 
protection from nonmagical edged weapons* 
Brigands-1st level fighters (6): AC 6 (scale 
mail), MV 12"; HD 1; hp 7 each; Dmg 1-8 
(scimitars); THACO 20; AL CE, 

The brigands have orders to flee if defeat 
ed. They will not talk if captured, for they fear 
the masters revenge. Therkle attempts to 
escape upstairs and out a window if the 
defense fads. He commits suicide with his 
dagger if he perceives that he'll be captured. 
The brigands each have a purse containing 20 
g.p. Therkle has a pouch with six gems (all 50 
g.p, value with no chance of increasing) and 15 
p.p. 

4. Stairs Up 


You see a set of stairs leading up. Their ris 
ers are as dusty as the rest of the place, 
but faint traces of footprints going up and 
down the staircase are noticeable. 


The upstairs is abandoned, dusty, and all the 
window's shutters are dosed. If the PCs 
examine the dust on the upper floor: 


There must have been furniture here at 
one time, for recent scratches can be seen 
on the floor beneath the dust, indicating 
that pieces were moved. 


The furniture on the upper floor was moved to 
the cellar some time ago for the use of the 
men residing there. 

5* Small Bedroom 


You see a small bedroom containing a bed, 
a small bureau, a small chest, and a lan 
tern. 


This is where Therkle sleeps when he is not at 
the inn. The locked chest contains the follow 
ing: a 30-foot rope, writing utensils, three 
sheaves of paper, a map of the immediate area 
outside (with the inn cirded and its doorways 
marked), a flint and steel, two flasks of oil, and 
a sack with 200 g.p, (bribe money). The small 
bureau (unlocked) is packed, and contains no 
less than seven changes of expensive clothing 
(total value 300 g.p.). The lantern on the 
bureau contains enough oil for two hours of 
use. 


Dieg Manor Scale: 1 square = 5 feet 


Mortared window 









? 

ii 

mil 



!5 




Mill 

Hill 

w 

11 


7 


4 




3 




5 















b 




9 




rt 







A 

N 





j. 

r 



PI 

§b£ 

lil 

¦; r ,. r ;V 


2 





i -| 



6 


_ 

_r 

i 




\ _ t 






L 

_ 




10 


8 















_r 




1 

2J 

L_ 



13 



LJ 




? 

L 



J 

? 

? 


_ 



_| 


6, Large Hall 


You see a large hall carpeted in blue* The 
walls here are inlaid in stained oak. Among 
the various items located here are two 
viewing stands containing busts of males, a 
large mirror (south wall, just east of the 
window), a bathing stand containing towels 
and a cake of soap, and a basin next to this. 
Three paintings adorn the west and east 
walls* The one centered on the west wall 
depicts a man bedecked in blue. From 
what you have learned about the man's 
appearance, there is no doubt that this is a 
recent portrait of Carlan Dieg. 


Anyone who examines the picture wiU notice 
that it's been water-stained, as if someone 
spat upon it. 

7. Kitchen 


This standard kitchen appears empty. 
Food scraps are apparent on the counters, 
and a large cheese and sausage are sus 
pended from the rafter here. 


8. Servant's Room 


You open the door and come face to face 
with a man in servant's attire. He seems 
taken aback by your entry as he steps 
backward a pace. 


The man is a thief, but is cowardly and will 
avoid a fight if possible. Unless he is 
restrained immediately, he will rapidly edge 
his way toward the window and one round lat 
er will threaten to jump. If the PCs don't try 
to prevent him from doing so, there is a 75% 
chance that he will leap through the window- 
which is only a couple of feet above ground 
level-and escape. Otherwise, he will cower 
in the southwest comer and beg the PCs not 
to hurt him. 

Hyrmie-5th level thief: AC 9; MV 12"; 
HD 5; hp 17; tfAT 1; Dmg 2- 5 (dagger) or 4- 
13 (17 Str) for a backstab; THACO 18; AL LE; 
SA backstab. Items carried: thieves tools, 
two daggers, keys for the front door lock. 

This is Hyrmie *s room. It is sparsely fur 
nished with a cot and a chair. Several articles 
of clothing hang from a cord drawn from the 
northeast to the southwest comer. 

Hyrmie will spill his guts if threatened with 
torture or the like, but will insist that he be 
free to leave in exchange for his cooperation. 
Hyrmie is a fast-talk expert, however-he 
Ues, saying that Dieg is a government official 
bent on uncovering the inner workings of a 
plot against a church official, and that he 
















(Hyrmie) has been captured and forced to 
work with the plotters. He warns that if he 
isn't set free he surely will be slain, and if the 
PCs bring law-enforcement officials into the 
picture and they insist on speaking to the mas 
ter of the manor, this will only complicate mat 
ters, for then Dieg will be killed by church 
officials before being able to divulge his infor 
mation. 

Hyrmie, if asked about the cellar, will give 
PCs the location of the stairs to the cellar and 
warn that he knows a guardian of some sort 
exists at their terminus-what it is he has no 
idea, for he, "a lowly servant," has never 
been privy to such things. 

9, Den 

Yon enter a room that must be Dieg's den. 
There is the normal complement of chairs, 
tables, bookshelves and the like here, but 
all seem of ordinary quality and not used 
much. 

There is nothing of interest or appreciable val 
ue in this room. 

10. Empty Room 

This appears to have been at one time a 
small storage room or linen closet. It is 
dusty and empty. 


11. Storage Room 

You see a hall ahead which is lined with 
shelves along its east wall. The hall then 
turns west, going around a staircase lead 
ing down. A faint odor of something unsa 
vory but unidentifiable seems to emanate 
from below, although the smell is notice 
able throughout the room. 

The shelves contain bottled and bagged food 
stuffs: grain, flour, pickles, beets, apples, 
pears, and cooking oil. Anyone examining the 
long hallway will notice a window on the north 
wall that has been closed over with plaster and 
mortar The window can be broken out rather 
easily (defensive value of Vz point), but doing 
so will certainly attract the attention of anyone 
in the vicinity. 

12. Bathing Area 

This is a rectangular bathing room with a 
window along the east wall and a wooden 
double door near the southeast comer. 
The bath is musty-smelling, and it's appar 
ent that it hasn't been used recently. 


13. Master Bedroom 

The double oak doors leading to this room are 
locked. The keys are held by Helthrax. The 
doors will sustain 2 points of structural dam 
age each before breaking asunder. There are 
magical sleep-gas traps (of 10th level 
strength) on each door that will be triggered if 
one of the doors is forced open or the traps 
are not disarmed before the lock is picked. 
The gas affects characters of all levels equal 
ly: save vs. poison at - 3 or fall into a sleep (as 
per the spell) that lasts for a number of rounds 
equal to 40 minus the victim's constitution 
score. A successful casting of dispel magic or 
the use of some similar dispelling power (a rod 
of cancellation, for instance) will defuse both 
traps. The doors could then be opened with 
out setting off the trap. Note that thieves are 
not able to find or remove these traps. Magi 
cal means might locate them, however. If the 
PCs get past the doors: 

You see what appears to be a master bed 
room. A canopied, oaken bed is set against 
the far eastern wall; next to this is a night- 
stand with a crystal lamp and a small book 
case containing a smattering of neatly 
arranged volumes-all dusty. A desk and 
hardwood chair are set against the south 
ern wall, before the window there. A crys 
tal reading lamp is the only object on the 
desktop. There are signs that other pieces 
of furniture were once here-floor 
scratches can be seen, no doubt caused by 
the movement of these. 

Out of all the objects in this room, possibly only 
one will strike the characters as significant: 
Located under the pillow on the bed is a gold 
symbol of luz-a grinning skull. This object 
radiates an intense aura of evil; anyone 
approaching within 5 feet of it once it is 
exposed to viewing will tend not to want to look 
upon it, and those of good alignment will want 
to depart the room upon seeing it. If this sym 
bol is touched or carried, there is a 25% chance 
(check immediately and each hour thereafter 
that it is kept) that the bearer will be trans 
ported to Helthrax (much like the reverse of 
the succor spell). Helthrax will be forewarned 
of the character's arrival by a constant head 
throb just minutes before the transportation 
occurs. The symbol bestows no other powers 
or attributes unless employed by Helthrax, at 
which time he can generate an aura of fear 20' 
radius for as long as he holds it within sight of 
intended victims. If it is destroyed, Helthrax 
receives a sharp pain which immobilizes him for 
one complete round. He will thereafter be 
aware of what happened and will hunt down the 
ones responsible for its destruction, using all 
available forces. 


The Cellar 

Carlan Dieg built an extensive cellar, fashion 
ing it after those normally found on larger out 
door estates. In it he placed the family crypt 
(bordering area 33), wine rooms, and other 
places he had intended to expand upon (exer 
cise and training areas, etc.). It's composed of 
granite and is dry for the most part. Helthrax, 
with some help from a distance provided by 
luz, has magically transformed some of the 
cellar's areas to accommodate unusual and 
dangerous creatures that will be set upon the 
city after the assassinations have been accom 
plished. 

14. Savage Dog 

The stairs go down for 50 feet, and then 
you're confronted by a dead end upon 
reaching their bottom. The stench you 
I smelled at the top of the staircase is over 
whelming here, though you cannot pin 
down the direction from which it origi 
nates. 

The secret door to the west is blocked on the 
western side by a pile of rubbish the dog 
heaped there-a recurring problem even for 
the inhabitants of this place! When the door is 
swung inward, the pile is moved slightly (a 
bone falls to the floor and makes a clacking 
noise) and the dog is alerted. Unless someone 
speaks the control word ("Mutt") before 
entering, the dog attacks. 

Savage Hkr Dog (larger than norma/).' AC 6; 
MV 12"; HD 3 + 1; hp 20; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; 
THACO 12; AL N; SA attacks at +4 "to hit" 
due to savageness, surprises on a ld6 roll of 
1-3. 

When the dog attacks there is a 50% chance 
per round, starting in the first round, that it 
will bark, thus alerting the guards in area 15. 
In turn, these will rush to see what the matter 
is; and upon ascertaining the situation, one 
runner will move off posthaste to spread the 
alert. Keep track of the number of turns the 
runner has advanced ahead of the party, if this 
occurs. If the runner gets away, this is the 
worst of all possible scenarios. If the charac 
ters do not have a concerted plan of operation 
when they enter area 14-one combining 
information-gathering and a stealthy ap 
proach-then they could find themselves in 
more hot water than they bargained for. 

15. Guards 

If the characters silence the dog, or sneak 
past in such a way that allows them a chance 
to surprise the occupants of this room, read 
the room description that follows. Otherwise, 
events transpire as outlined in area 14. 


99 















You enter an alcove area where stands a 
human bedecked in chain mail* He shouts 
and levels his spear right at you. 


The man sets his spear against a charge, hop 
ing to fend off the intruders until his col 
leagues to the east arrive. There is a 30% 
chance that the mercenary leader will not act 
according to orders and dispatch a runner (see 
below) to warn the remaining dungeon inhab 
itants about the intruders-instead he attacks 
without giving this order, possibly because of 
being surprised by this onslaught. 

Guards-1st level fighters (15): AC 5 (chain 
mail); MV 9"; HD 1; hp 6; MT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(spear, or 2-12 if set vs, charge); THACO 20; 
AL CN. 

Leader-8th level fighter: AC 2 (plate mail 
+1); MV 12"; HD 8; hp 46; § AT 3/2; Dmg 2- 
7 ( spear +1); THACO 13; AL CE. 

Runner-1 st level fighter: AC 10; MV 12" 
(24" when sprinting, as per Wilderness Sur 
vival Guide); HD 1; hp 3; MT 1; Dmg 1-4 
(dagger); THACO 20; AL CN. 


The room contains the usual bedrolls and 
other belongings. All monies are sequestered 
in the mercenary's packs: 540 g.p. each. The 
runner wears a bone bracelet (worth 25 g,p*); 
the leader's pack contains a large satchel with 
an ermine fur (worth 3,800 g.p.) and a small 
bag of coins which holds 34 s.p, and 16 g.p, 

16* Brigands 

This room houses 25 brigands. If they were 
alerted by the runner, their set-up is as fol 
lows: Those with missiles will discharge these 
as long as they are able and then draw their 
blades* The spearmen stand ready with their 
weapons set vs. charge. Any enemy opening 
the east door will be met by double fire from 
the shortbowmen, and a bristling wall of 
spears. If the brigands are not aware of the 
adventurers, then normal surprise rules 
apply* However, guards are posted inside the 
doors to this room, and it is highly improbable 
that the party could surprise the bulk of the 
men because of this* Also note area 17, for the 
men there are these brigands' leaders, and 
they will react to any noise-such as that 


made by battle-promptly. If the brigands lose 
morale and retreat, they will attempt to lure 
the party into a trap with the inhabitants of 
area 22. Each brigand has a pouch containing 
340 g.p. 

Brigand Spearmen-1st level fighters (18): 
AC 5; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(spear, or 2-12 if set vs. charge); THACO 20; 
AL CE. 

Brigand Bowmen-1st level fighters (7): 
AC 8; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4; MT 1; Dmg 1-6 
(arrow from shortbow) or 1-4 (dagger); 
THACO 20; SA double missile discharge if sta 
tionary and not meleed during a round; AL 
CE. Items carried: each has a quiver with 10 
arrows. 


The room is filthy and apparently has been 
used as a barracks for some time. Besides 
scraps of food and garbage, and an occa 
sional pack containing nothing of specific 
interest, you find nothing here* 


It will take the PCs two rounds* if they decide 
to stop and check the clothes, packs, and oth 
er junk here, to ascertain that there is nothing 
of value in the room (except the pouches car 
ried by the brigands). 

17* Leaders 

If the PCs stop to listen for a moment outside 
this room, they will detect the sounds of talk 
ing from within. 


As you enter this room you are confronted 
by three men in plate mail armor and 
shields. One is a towering figure with a 
bastard sword already in hand. 


Huge Fighter-7th level: AC 3 (plate mail); 
MV 6"; HD 7; hp 47; MT 3/2; Dmg 6-12 
(bastard sword, strength bonus); Str 18/81; 
THACO 12; AL CE* 

Fighters-6th level (2): AC 2 (plate mail & 
shield); MV 6"; HD 6; hp 36, 40; MT 1; Dmg 
1-8 (longswords); THACO 16; AL CE* 

The room-which at one time might have 
been used for wine storage, for a lingering 
smell of the fruit is still apparent-is bedecked 
with throw nigs, carpets, three cots, a table 
and three large stools, a chest, and four hang 
ing lamps, each of which contains enough oil 
for eight hours of operating time. The chest 
holds enough standard rations for 3 weeks for 
one individual; each of the three men's purses 
contains 300 g*p., and the huge fighter wears 
a silver ring inset with a large amethyst (780 
g.p. value). 



100 












18. Priest of luz 


As you enter this room, you get a brief 
glimpse of a man in yellowish robes. Sud 
denly, before you can do anything, the man 
disappears and the room is cast into utter 
darkness. 


The man is Margus, a priest of luz. He has 
invoked a power employable once per week 
which allows him to cast two spells, or per 
form two related fuactions, at once; he has 
just simultaneously cast darkness 15' radius 
and invisibility from his specially made ring of 
spell storing. In the resulting confusion, he 
tries to use his other spells to slay the PCs. If 
he deems the party too great a threat to over 
come, he flees when the chance presents 
itself, using wraithform if need be to elude 
pursuit, 

Margus the Evil PatriarchSth level cleric: 
AC 2 (plate mall + 1); MV 12"; HD 8; hp 36; 
#AT 1; Dmg4-9 (mace +3); Wis 18; THACO 
14; AL CE. Items carried: ring of spell s toring 
(darkness 15* radius (x2) and wraithform 
remain after the use just completed), boots of 
elvenkind, mace +3, pouch with 20 diamonds 
(1,000 g.p. each). Spells: bless, command, 
portent, resist cold, sanctuary; aid, enthrall, 
hold person , silence 15' radius f spiritual ham 
mer; animate dead , cause disease, dispel 
magic, prayer; cause serious wounds , protec 
tion from good 10' radius, sticks to snakes. 
Special ability: change self (as the first level 
illusionist spell) once per day. 

Margus is the de facto second in command 
here. He is a trusted servant of Helthrax, but 
has special orders from luz which entitle him 
to question the orders and stratagems of 
Helthrax* He will openly deal with the PCs, or 
slay HeIthrax-depending on the situation at 
hand-if he senses that Iuz's plans are being 
compromised. He is ruthless and will cheat 
and lie to attain his master's victory. If cap 
tured, however, he will talk openly of Iuz's 
plan* If released after this, he flees from Ver- 
bobonc, for he fears the wrath of luz too much 
to remain a target tn this area. 

After Margus is defeated or flees: 


The room is sparsely furnished, as if the 
man hadn't intended to stay here long. A 
cot, a stand with a filled water basin on it, a 
leather waterskin (half full), a small brass 
incense burner, and a cot with a blanket are 
all the items decorating the room. 


Anyone who examines the cot will find a staff 
concealed beneath the mattress. This is a 
very special staff of curing, with an effectively 
unlimited number of charges. It can only be 
used to negate the effects of the plague, and 


only upon people located within the walls of 
Verbobonc, luz crafted this artifact as a way of 
keeping his followers and supporters free of 
the plague when the takeover begins and then 
entrusted it to Margus, 

19. Idols 


You notice two human-sized idols as the 
corridor turns west. One must be of luz, 
for it matches his known description per 
fectly. The other is less definite in origin; 
its posture suggests filial subservience. Its 
features are human but yet demonic, the 
latter consisting of razor-sharp teeth and 
mottled skin with a reptilian texture; its 
shaggy head of hair is surmounted by a dia 
dem normally worn by human princes of 
Furyondy, 


These idols represent the relationship 
between luz and High Priest Helthrax, the lat~ 
ter having recently received recognition as 
Iuz's right hand. In recognition of this change, 
the priests of luz have reacted accordingly by 
supplying the appropriate symbols fi.e., the 
statue of Helthrax). 

20, Scrying Pools 


You see three pools of water in the 10-foot- 
square area ahead of you* 


The pools cast no reflections. At the bottom 
of each are the vessels which at one time mag 
ically held these pools' waters. These ves 
sels, similar in appearance to large crocks, are 
magical, and are the source of the the pools' 
powers. When one of the pools is gazed upon 
by a follower of luz and the sentence, "luz the 
powerful, cast us your waters, allow us to see 
us through you" is uttered, its surface 
becomes reflective, and the pool operates 
thereafter as a magic font spell for up to six 
hours* luz stays in touch with his son and 
priests in this way. The pools will only function 
for a follower of luz. The vessels cannot be 
destroyed, but they can be removed* thus 
nullifying the power and making the pools use 
less in regard to their primary function. 

21. Brackish Pool 


This pool appears dark and foreboding. You 
smell something acrid as you near it. 


Margus (see area 18) prays for his spells 
here. If a cleric praying at this pool is worthy 
of Iuz's aid (as is Margus), the spells are 
granted; in this case all spells come directly 
from luz, and no intermediaries are involved. 
K he is not worthy, a glob from the pool splat 


ters the cleric, as if luz had spat at him, Iuz's 
spittle causes the victim to age 1-6 years (no 
saving throw) asnd withers the area struck 
(an arm or a leg), making the extremity use 
less for 2-5 rounds. After the victim has 
recovered from the spittle's withering effects, 
30%-80% (ld6 + 2) of the spells requested 
are granted (rounding fractions down). Any 
fleshy being touching the pool becomes para 
lyzed for 1-6 turns (no saving throw). There is 
a 50% chance that the paralyzed creature falls 
headfirst into the pool, if this happens, perma 
nent paralysis occurs and remains in effect 
until appropriate spells or powers are invoked 
to cure the victim. 

22. Underpriests of luz 


Beyond the door Is a room fit by what must 
be a magical light source. Three men in 
yellow robes confront you. 


The under priests will attack without thought 
of harm to themselves. Prior to entering 
melee, each casts a change self spell to make 
himself look identical to as his first intended 
victim. 

Underpriests-5th level clerics (3): AC 5; 
MV 9"; HD 5; hp 20, 21, 24; AT 1; Dmg 2-7 
(mace): THACO 17; SA +1 "to hit" due to 
tenacity; AL CE. 

Spells forHefus, cleric #1: combine, create 
wafer, magic stone, hold person, resist fire, 
spiritual hammer ; death s door 

Spells for Karrok, cleric if2: cure light 
wounds, light ; protectio from good , augury, 
dust devil, spiritual hammer, cause blindness. 

Spells for Jamboo, cleric #3: bless , com 
mand, light, aid, chant, hold person, create 
food and water: 

These priests were hand-picked by Margus 
to accompany him to Verbobonc, They are all 
fanatical-but the third one, Jamboo, is 
insanely hungry for power. If gi ven a chance to 
gain something by dealing with the charac 
ters, he will do so. He knows about the plan to 
take the city, but his knowledge doesn't 
include what elements, other than this 
dungeon's own, will be involved in the attack. 
He otherwise feigns service to luz and bides 
his time. He is utterly untrustworthy and will 
attempt to extricate himself from faked alli 
ances by double-dealing-claiming, if he is 
captured by Iuz's servants, that he merely 
infiltrated the party to learn of their plans, 

23. Strange Passages 


You see small stairs leading up to the east, 
and an alcove containing stairs going up to 
the west* Both are strange, because they 


101 















Iuz's Gambit Scale; 1 square = 10 feet 


27A 













slant up less like stairs, but more like walk 
ways (about 5 feet up for every 10 feet of 
actual distance covered). They apparently 
do not ascend to the ground floor of the 
manor above. 


24. Earth Elemental 


The stairs lead to a rough-hewn corridor 
filled with rocks and dirt which* in turn, 
leads you on a short, twisting jaunt south. 
After 20 feet you come before a pool of 
mud in an enclosed* rough-hewn chamber. 


An earth elemental is captured here* It remains 
hidden and will not breach the confines of the 
pool It will look at adventurers, and there is a 
75% chance when it does this that it recognizes 
that they are not Helthrax's servants. In that 
case, it rises and attempts to converse with the 
party, hoping that they will somehow release it. 
It attempts to alert them to a special symbol 
that keeps it here, which is inscribed on the 
inner ring of the pool, 2 feet beneath the mud 
adjacent to the entry corridor. 

Earth Elemental: AC 2; MV 6"; HD 16; hp 
60; MT 1; Dmg 4-32: THACO 7; AL N; SA 
full damage against creatures resting on the 
earth , -2 on damage rolls against other oppo 
nents, cause 2-8 points of structural damage; 
SD +2 or better weapons to hit. 

The PCs must be able to communicate with 
this creature to understand its motives. It will 
attempt sign language, and a magic-user who 
has summoned elementals before will at the 
very least recognize its gestures as nonhostile. 
Discovering the symbol is easy, for a raised 
metallic skull will be felt if characters attempt to 
physically locate it. The symbol can be neutral 
ized by the fallowing spells or stratagems: A 
mud to rock spell or a disintegrate spell 
destroys the symbol, A passwaE spell negates 
the symbol's power for as long as the spell 
remains in effect; this has the incidental effect 
of allowing the earth elemental to escape. The 
symbol can also be destroyed by inflicting 110 
points of magical attack damage upon it. 

The elemental will not touch the symbol, for 
doing that causes it excruciating pain. Other 
spells or powers (short of the magic of an arti 
fact) will not work to destroy or invalidate this 
symbol. If loosed, the elemental will join the 
party in the attempt to overthrow Helthrax. It 
doesn't like remaining on this plane, but it 
hated its former imprisonment so much that it 
finds dignity in revenge. If the elemental is not 
released, it will be loosed upon an unwary 
populace at the time of Helthrax's attack. It 
defends itself if attacked by the characters. 
The pool is 20 feet deep, so if pressed the ele 


mental can hide for lack of any other action. 

25. Shrine to luz 


After proceeding about 8 feet west you 
enter a rectangular shaped room at a point 
12 feet above it; below you is a sandy area 
extending toward a marble floor, w'hich 
approximately covers the western half of 
the chamber. On the marble floor is an altar 
of some sort: it is a raised ovoid stone 
affair, inset with six large stones that glow 
in the light. You see no stairs or other ways 
to descend to it. 


This is Iuz's answer to the Temple of Elemen 
tal Evil (after a fashion). He has attempted to 
link the worship of himself to the '"new order" 
a plan which allows for the summoning and use 
of his own elementals-new allies not yet 
revealed to his clerics or followers. The 
stones on the altar symbolize the following 
(proceeding clockwise from the top): N (yel 
low) luz; NE (brown) earth; SE (gray) air; S 
(red) Helthrax; SW (orange) fire; NW (white) 
water. The stones are rock crystals of various 
geographic origins. Each crystal cracks if 
physical methods are employed to remove 
them. If removed by magic (by employing a 
rock to mud spell, for instance) they can be 
subsequently sold for 1,000 g.p. each, 

26. Prayer Room 


This room is carpeted in gray and littered 
with pillow's. Centered upon a teakwood 
table are bust-sized brass idols of luz and 
another demonlike humanoid. 


This is the prayer room utilized by the clerics 
from area 22, The table is worth 300 g.p. if 
sold. The idols are brass. The "other idol" is a 
representation of Helthrax in a ritualistic poly- 
morphed state. 

27, Hall of Victories 


The passage west turns into a carpeted 
passage leading off to the south, 20 feet 
wide. Lining the walls of this corridor are 
many empty stone pedestals. 


Helthrax has prepared a suitable place for the 
soon-to-be-dead enemies of evil to be dis 
played and interred. On the agenda, after the 
fall of Verbobonc, is the mummification of 
assassinated officials, including Wilfrick. All, 
in turn, will be displayed (and buried) here. 
Note that if too much noise is made in the 
approach to area 28, the dracolisk there will 
be alerted to the party's presence. 


27A, Secret Escape Route 

If the PCs open the secret door and enter this 
small chamber, they discover a passage head 
ing north. If the PCs proceed this way: 


The passage continues in a straight line for 
60 feet and then terminates against a brick 
wall. 


The bricks are easily knocked out. The space 
beyond reveals a sewer passage east and 
west. It takes the party one hour to find its 
way out of the sewers by going west, or twice 
that time if it proceeds east. 

28. Hall of the Dracolisk 

Roll for surprise and initiative when PCs enter 
this place. All but Helthrax and the troll keep 
er (see area 30) will be attacked by the draco 
lisk. See Monster Manual U for complete 
details. 

Dracolisk: AC 3; MV 9" (no flying here); 
HD 7 + 3; hp 50; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/3-12; 
THACO 13; AL CE; SA acid breath w'eapon 
for 4-24, petrification gaze weapon; SD oppo 
nents attempting to avoid the gaze melee at 
-4 "to hit," creature is 90% impervious to 
having its gaze reflected. 

The dracolisk bellows during its attack, and 
the troll at area 30 will most certainly be alert 
ed. The dracolisk will not attack its troll keep 
er and actually averts its gaze in his presence. 
This chamber contains nothing of value. 
Two iron-bound doors are set into the west 
wall. 

29. Treasure Room 

Beyond the secret door is a small area heaped 
with boxes. This represents the majority of the 
wealth currently available to Helthrax. There 
are 20 boxes here: numbers 1-10 contain 400 
g.p. each; 11-14 contain 400 e.p. each; 15-19 
contain 10 silver necklaces, each necklace worth 
300 g.p.; and box 20 contains 300 p.p. 

30. Storage/Troll Keeper 

Note: If the troll has been alerted, he locks 
and bolts the doors. If the doors are forced 
open, he flees to gather the zombies (see 
areas 31 and 32) for a counterattack. 

Troll: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6 + 6; hp 40; #AT 
3; Dmg 5-8/5-8/2-12; THACO 13; AL CE; SA 
severed body parts can still attack; SD regen 
eration. Special ability: this troll has a 14 intel 
ligence. 


Upon breaching the door(s) you see a 
room filled with boxes, large casks* and 
barrels. You hear and see the approach of 
figures from the north. A troll appears to 
be leading a horde of zombies! 




















The zombies-both types-will attack until 
slain. The troll will attempt to escape past the 
party if its death or defeat seems imminent. If 
blocked, it fights to the death. This is obvious 
ly a storage room. The 12 boxes and 16 casks 
contain foodstuffs (pickled meat, breads, veg 
etables in oil, spices, etc.) which are dis 
pensed by the juju zombies to those lackeys in 
need (Helthrax finds this mildly amusing) . 

31. Juju Zombies 

These creatures will follow the dictates-in 
descending order-of Helthrax, Margo s, and 
the troU They command the undead zombie 
horde at #32. 

Juju Zombies (5): AC 6; MV 9"; HD 3 + 12; 
hp 26, 27, 27, 28, 28; #AT 1; Dmg 3-12; 
THACO 13; AL N(E); SA can hurl or dis 
charge missile weapons, climb as 6th level 
thieves; SD only hit by +1 or better weap 
ons, piercing/blunt weapon attacks do half 
damage, immune to mind-affecting powers/ 
spells such as illusion, charms , and holds , and 
to electricity, magic missiles, death magic, 
and cold spells; fire only inflicts half damage; 
turned as a spectre. 

32. Zombies 

The zombies will follow the dictates of 
Helthrax, Margus, or the juju zombies in area 
31. 

Zombies (20): AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9 
each; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; THACO 16; AL N; SD 
immune to mind- affecting spells, poisons, 
etc. 

33. Cavern of Helthrax 

Important Note; Helthrax will not interfere 
with his lackeys' inabilities to deal with 
intruders. (He thinks, "Surely, if they cannot 
deal with a few meddlesome humans, of what 
worth will they be to me in the grand assault 
upon the City?") He waits here, listening, 
instead. When the characters enter the cham 
ber, he casts the best spell befitting the situa 
tion and thereafter engages the party with 
guile and tact, employing all means available 
to him. Though he abhors the thought of flee 
ing, he will do so to save his own life. Helthrax 
has inherited powers not typical of regular 
humans. His rituals with 1m have made him a 
super-human in effect, 

Helthrax, High Priest of Iuz- 12th level 
cleric: AC 0; MV 15"; HD 12; hp 80; #AT 2; 
Dmg 8-13 (footman's mace strength 
bonus); Str 18/48, Int 17, Wis 17, Dex 16, 
Con 16, Cha 15; THACO 10; SA cause fear by 
touch (plus see below); SD MR 25%; AL CE, 
Item carried; amulet of proof against detec 


tion and location. Additional abilities/misc, 
notes; detect magic, levitate, polymorph self, 
infravision, speak with elementals, all at will; 
iron weapons do damage at +1 per die. Spells 
carried: command, cure light wounds T detect 
good, penetrate disguise, protection from 
good, remove fear; aid, enthrall, hold person, 
messenger, silence 15' radius; animate dead, 
cause disease, dispel magic, curse, speak 
with dead; abjure, protection from good 10 f 
radius, spike stones; slay living, true seeing; 
blade barrier, word of recall. 

Notes on spell use: The blade barrier spell 
is a good candidate for the first spell cast by 
Helthrax; its range is 3" (and extends beyond 
that due to the affected area) and it lasts for 36 
rounds. Helthrax will cast it upon party mem 
bers (saving throws to dodge apply). The 
word of recall , if used, returns Helthrax to 
Dorakaa. The curse could be used to lower 
the party's subsequent saving throws; 
Helthrax would likely then follow up on this 
with slay living, hold person, and command 
(not necessarily in that order). 

Concluding the Adventure 

If Helthrax flees or is slain while playing this 
scenario as part of the overall campaign, 
Morgorath creates this illusion for the party's 
benefit: 


The image of Iuz appears, and he stares at 
you as he says, "You have but slighted me 
by this defeat, for who can defeat the will 
of Iuz, greatest of all on Oerth?! You shall 
reap my wrath, humans. You shall be 
blighted, just as I loose my venom upon 
the Scarlet Ones! So speaks the great 
Iuz!" He spits upon the floor, and his image 
disappears in a flash! Where the spittle 
landed are some words, burned into the 
floor and still smoldering: 'The Brother 
hood shall suffer!" 


Of course, this Is the clue that tells the PCs 
where to proceed for the next (and, unbe 
knownst to them, the last) mission of the cam 
paign. 

If the PCs recover the staff of curing from 
room 18 and succeed in identifying its nature, 
the government of Verbobonc will be grateful 
beyond words, and the staff will be used to 
cure the plague within a matter of days. Oth 
erwise, the disease runs its course and stops 
infecting people after two more weeks have 
passed. H&sit "only" a disease, or did it have 
a more sinister source? Perhaps only Iuz 
knows for sure,. .. 


If this adventure is played as a one-shot 
mission, success means that the PCs have 
ended the threat of the assassination plot. 
When they go before Wilfrick with proof of the 
attempted overthrow, they are rewarded. 
They may choose from the following gifts, 
bestowed upon them by Wilfrick during a 
pompous ceremony proclaiming them as 
heroes. 

Knighthood: Includes a manor and lands 
equal to 20,000 g.p. value. 

Monetary: 25,000 g.p. in jewelry. 

Magical: One choice of any magic item (be 
practical: no wishes, artifacts, major staves or 
rods, etc.), fully charged and/or in excellent 
condition. 

If the PCs thwarted Helthrax and claimed 
the staff of curing, any reward they choose is 
doubled in amount or quantity. 

If the party fails to stop Helthrax and fails to 
recover the staff, all player-character classes 
in the WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) game 
milieu not specifically mentioned in any of the 
other adventure sections as being affected by 
the plague lose 1 point of constitution. This 
loss occurs at the instant that the PCs exit the 
dungeon beneath Dieg Manor with no appar 
ent intention of going back. 

34. Hidden Chamber 

If this chamber is broken into: 


This is the Dieg family crypt. The coffins 
to the north and west are sealed. The new 
est addition-a crate with no lid-has the 
decomposed body of Carlan Dieg sprawled 
across it. 


Any good cleric will say a prayer on the spot! 
It seems that Carlan Dieg was a righteous 
man after all. 

35. Mortared and Bricked Wall 

If this place is uncovered: 


This 20-foot-square area is heaped with 
weapons and armor. 


This is Helthrax's secret cache of weapons 
and armor, either to be used in the taking of 
Verbobonc or as a reserve against bad times. 
This armory consists of 200 spears, 50 
shortswords, 1,000 quarrels, 2,000 arrows, 
30 light crossbows, 30 shortbows, 20 pole 
arms (mixture), 100 hand axes, 50 suits of 
leather armor, 30 suits of chain mail, 10 suits 
of plate mail, 50 round shields, a suit of field 
plate +3, and 4 suits of elven mail +1. 


\ 


104 












Hesuel Ilshar 

Many of the Suel nobility who escaped the 
Rain of Colorless Fire dreamed of a return to 
power and the destruction or subjugation of all 
rival peoples. The most determined of these 
gravitated toward the Tilvanot Plateau in the 
years immediately following that disaster. The 
reasons for this were threefold. First, the 
Flan natives were few and peaceful, easily 
subjugated. Second, the climate resembled 
that of the lost Suel homeland with its steady 
but cool temperature and misty skies. Last 
and perhaps most important was the plateau's 
relative isolation, far from the nascent power 
of the Oeridian tribes or the interference of 
the despised but feared elves and dwarves. 

Unlike the Suloise of the Sheldomar Basin, 
these colonists disdained any sort of intermix 
ture, social or otherwise, with other sorts of 
humans* and unlike the northern tribes they 
did not revert to barbarism. Instead they set 
out to reproduce the glories of ancient Suloise 
society, from slaveholding* assassination, rit 
ual torture, and the employment of goblinoid 
mercenaries to the highest magical and mate 
rial arts. 

Fortunately for the outside world, they also 
retained the capacity of the old country for 
treachery. Though a thriving set of cities and 
slave estates was established in mere dec 
ades, the new society spent its efforts in con 
tinuing feuds and factionalism. While their 
mansions gradually crumbled around them, 
the gentry spent their time in petty boundary 
disputes and other and increasingly bizarre 
diversions. The only unifying element was a 
common hatred and disdain for everything 
non- Suloise, and its one institutional expres 
sion: the Scarlet Brotherhood, 

The Brotherhood was founded in the last 
years of the Bakluni-Suel wars (5091 S.D.) to 
combat what its members saw as the dilution 
of Suel virtues and superiority: its express 
purpose was the "purification " of Suel blood 
and behavior* with the concomitant and inevi 
table rule of Suloise over all lesser peoples. 
However the only outward expression of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood on the Tilvanot Plateau, 
aside from certain arcane ceremonies, was 
the ritual hunting of escaped slaves and for 
eign intruders and the execution of dissidents 
who attempted to leave the plateau. Members 
seldom cooperated in any other manner. 

The complacency of this society was shaken 
to its very roots in 489 CY (6003 in the Suel 
calendar still used by the colonists' descen 
dants). Suddenly the southern provinces 
were invaded by strange monsters and by 
small bands of an entirely alien people who 
bore a disturbing resemblance to the Bakluni. 
Slaver forces sent against them were driven 


back in disarray. Many of the upper classes 
committed suicide for shame, or failed to 
respond at all. The slaves on the estates sens 
ed weakness and revolted. The tottering 
structure erected by the first colonists col 
lapsed. 

Only one element of the old order survived 
the impact. Irith Van, the head of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood, sent out scouts to investigate 
and met secretly with certain elements among 
the strangers. It developed that these folk had 
entered the plateau via a magical portal, cre 
ated by a great mage to allow them to escape 
enemies yet more powerful than themselves. 
They included several " monasteries" and vil 
lages which fled together with all their goods. 
The portal had closed behind them, and they 
knew no way to return. Irith Van noted the 
strange but effective skills of the intruders, 
whom he called "monks" because of their 
ascetic doctrines. He proposed an alliance. 
Not all were amenable, but one group agreed. 

Under Irith Van's iron hand, the Scarlet 
Brotherhood was hammered into a new form. 
The alliance with the monks was secret to all 
but those of the highest circle* but Irith Van 
learned, and his co-rulers began to teach, the 
new disciplines imported by the strangers. 
There were radical reorganizations of the 
moribund Brotherhood's structure. One by 
one, the old Suel lords and the free slave prov 
inces fed under the sway of the Scarlet Broth 
erhood. Those of the strangers who had 
refused alliance were driven into the wilder 
nesses at the plateau's edge. 

In 6006 S.D., Irith Van ordered the building 
of a new headquarters and fortress at the site 
of the strangers' entry into the Flanaess: 
Hesuel Ilshar, Breedhome of the Suloise, The 
entire episode of the foreign intrusion has 
since been expunged from history, and the 
existence of the descendants of the monks is a 
carefully maintained secret. The disciplines of 
monks and the grandiose programs of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood have been woven into a 
coherent whole, and most members accept 
that it has always been so. In the course of 
five generations, even the precise age of 
Hesuel Ilshar has been largely forgotten. Not 
so, however, its purpose: to produce a newer 
and "purer" Suel race, trained in all the dead 
liest arts, fit to conquer a continent. At long 
last the Scarlet Brotherhood has begun to 
direct its attention toward the outside world, 
Hesuel Ilshar is a grim and martial city. While 
its inhabitants regard it as the epitome of Suel 
culture, it has been heavily influenced by the 
monks with whom Irith Van formed his alli 
ance. Ironically, the vigorous and rejuvenated 
expression of Suel "superiority" is a hybrid. 

Hesuel Ilshar is set on high ground in the 
middle of a large expanse of slave estates. 
The estates about the capital provide cotton, 


citrus, maize, and rice, as well as bananas and 
tobacco. The dark volcanic soil of the plateau 
and the efficiency and harshness of the 
estates combine to produce an abundance of 
every sort of foodstuff and cloth. A belt of the 
native forest land separates Hesuel Ilshar 
from the estate lands, and provides supplies 
of ebony, teak, bamboo, deldo, and other 
woods. 

The walls, streets* and buildings of Hesuel 
Ilshar are all of the basalt which underlies the 
Tilvanot Plateau; a hard, dark gray fine 
grained rock. There are four city gates, one at 
each quarter of the compass and ah heavily 
guarded. Walls also divide the city into four 
outer quarters and an inner portion. Move 
ment in and out of the city is strictly con 
trolled, as is movement between quarters. 
The buildings are all of substantial construc 
tion. Those within public view are tall, narrow 
structures, most of them covered with a pale 
stucco. The low pitched roofs are covered in 
leaden sheeting. Windows are tall and narrow, 
commonly barred in complex patterns with 
wood or iron. Panes of glazed paper are used 
in preference to shutters. None of the build 
ings is heated: a greater hardship than it might 
first appear, since even the tropics are cool at 
these elevations. 

The streets between the houses are narrow 
but absolutely straight, arranged in a rectan 
gular grid that echoes the city wall. Most are 
intended only for foot or horse traffic. There 
are few private open spaces, and these are 
small. More prominent citizens maintain small 
sand gardens, consisting of raked pebbles and 
sand, a few boulders* and a stunted tree or 
two. These gardens are considered to be utili 
tarian, being required for meditation. The 
largest may have a small carefully informal 
pond stocked with colored carp. 

The largest structures in Hesuel Ilshar are 
hidden behind high walls. These are the train 
ing grounds of the elite agents of the Brother 
hood, There are three in each quarter: one for 
the assassins, one for the thieves* and one for 
the monks, each overseen by a senior master 
within the order. They are subordinate to a 
larger complex at the city center. 

The other major buildings of Hesuel Ilshar 
are the quarters of the women who bear new 
Suel children* the creches and dormitories of 
the children themselves* and the workhouses 
and workshops where all residents of the city 
spend time in useful labor. Those approved to 
have offspring for the Scarlet Brotherhood 
must journey to Hesuel Ilshar, where they 
remain until a child is conceived. The man 
immediately departs* and the woman remains 
only until the child's second birthday* or earli 
er if she has important duties elsewhere. The 
children are educated and fed in groups of ten, 
segregated by sex, until at the age of twelve 


105 








HESUEL ILSHAR Scale: 1 inch = 60 yards A 


N 



1. Walled Compound (fills block) 

a: Monk 
b: Assassin 
c: Thief 

d: Oriental monk 
e: Leader 

2. Hobgoblin Barracks 

3. Visitors' Dormitory 


4. Mens' Dormitory 

5. Children's Dormitory 

6. Servants' Dormitory 

7. Garden of Meditation 

(fills block) 

















































mmmm 

mmm 


they are directed into a profession. 

Each resident carries a lacquered wooden 
card with an inscription in Ancient Suloise 
stating the occupation and residence of the 
individual. Official visitors (there is no other 
sort) are provided with temporary cards. 
Cards are checked at every gate, whenever 
an individual enters the city or any of the 
wards or compounds. 

Nonhumans such as hobgoblins, goblins, 
and ores carry a gray card. Humans may have 
a green, blue, white, or red card according to 
their status. Only those of the purest Suel 
blood and the highest achievement may aspire 
to a red card; fullblooded Suel generally rate a 
white card regardless of ability, and a few are 
granted to exceptional individuals of other 
backgrounds. Blue cards are for non-Suel who 
have some particular talent. Green cards are 
those of slaves with no exceptional abilities. 

A card also bears a copy of the unique num 
ber tattooed on the right arm of each inhabit 
ant of the citadel, as well as special notes such 
as area restrictions or freedoms. Guards sel 
dom check to see whether an individual's card 
and tattoo match, but the penalty for a mis 
match is decapitation. The descendants of the 
Orientals are treated as full-blooded Suel by 
the card system, but matters are so arranged 
that low-ranking members of the Brotherhood 
never examine them. 

There is no commerce in the city, and no 
coins are accepted. Supplies and food are 
available at a dormitory on approval or not at 
all. The only manufacturing carried out within 
its walls are the labors of students or children, 
or of those who await the conception or birth 
of a child and would otherwise be idle. These 
are set to weaving and spinning, or if they 
have the art they may work wood from the 
surrounding forest or the gold and olivine 


which are gathered from the Tilvanot Pla 
teau's streams, or engage in other approved 
crafts to finance the Brotherhood's activities 
abroad. 

The garments of Hesuel Ilshar are largely 
uniforms of one sort or another. Typical is a 
robe with a deep hood, and sandals for the 
feet, sometimes with short trousers and a 
vest under the robe. For slaves, this clothing 
is gray and of coarse weave. Others are per 
mitted colors, though the shades of red are 
reserved for actual members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. Each member or direct servant 
also bears the four-armed symbol of the Scar 
let Brotherhood and the number of the regi 
ment on the upper left shoulder, together with 
a symbol denoting the wearer's profession. 
Most notable are the Vigilances, easily recog 
nized by their bright scarlet uniforms. 

The Vigilances are cadres of young trainees 
who enforce Hesuel Ilshar s strict laws. They 
may rely upon the swift arrival of hobgoblin 
troops if required, but this is not usually nec 
essary, Those who witness a crime in Hesuel 
Ilshar but fail to report it are considered as 
culpable as the criminals, and it is possible to 
acquire honors by personally aiding the Vigi 
lances in an apprehension. Many residents are 
eager, even overeager, to discover crimes and 
report on them. Beatings, tortures, and exe 
cutions, always public, are the typical penal 
ties. 

While obedience to the ultimate leaders is 
exact and unquestioning, the daily course of 
events in Hesuel Ilshar is directed by the mas 
ters of the four quarters of the city, who in 
turn delegate authority (and make superiors 
accountable for the actions of their inferiors). 
Superiors have absolute authority over under 
lings, even if they are only the foremen of 
slave gangs. Within the Scarlet brotherhood 


first precedence goes to those of higher level, 
but otherwise monks take precedence over 
assassins, who take precedence over thieves. 

There are no temples to the deities in 
Hesuel Ilshar, only a few small shrines to the 
lawful, neutral, and evil members of the Suel 
pantheon. The Brotherhood does not encour 
age observance of these deities, except as an 
expression of Suel culture, and regards clerics 
of even suitable Suel powers with some suspi 
cion. 

The population of Hesuel Ilshar consists 
largely of humans, with some hobgoblin 
troops. There are no elves, dwarves, or half- 
lings other than visitors. Excepting the 
slaves, most individuals are of predominantly 
Suel blood. Fully half of the city consists of 
those under the age of thirteen, and with the 
exception of those who cany out the essential 
tasks of maintenance the remainder are all 
fighters, magic-users, and most of all monks, 
thieves, and assassins who are either in train 
ing or are engaged in educating others. A few 
are administrators, none without skill in some 
martial field. In all there are some four thou 
sands, plus the Kara-turans who remain large 
ly hidden at the city's center: another three 
hundred individuals. The common language of 
these people is Ancient Suloise-not the form 
current on the rest of the Tilvanot Plateau, 
which has altered somewhat in nearly a mil 
lennium, but the original as known from docu 
ments. Most know common speech as well, 
but it is a sign of inferiority to use any other 
language than the ancient Suel or possibly the 
lawful evil alignment tongue. Excepting a few 
horses used by couriers and certain mon 
sters, there are no other creatures in Hesuel 
Ilshar. 


107 





THE SCARLET MASQUE 


Players' Introduction 

Your long journey may be finally nearing an 
end. Following obscure hints of its secret 
location through Kro Terlep, up the ramparts 
of the Tilvanot Plateau, through the belts of 
slave estate and forest, you have at last come 
to the hidden fortress and monastery of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood, Hesuel 11shar. It is a 
dark and forbidding city that looms on the 
horizon behind basalt walls. The ring of forest 
about it seems to absorb all sound, as does the 
surrounding fog. Who knows what you will 
find within? Certainly you may expect to find 
the mysterious Morgorath, and perhaps the 
dreaded plague that seems to dog your foot' 
steps will soon arrive here as well. All else is 
uncertain. Your only real clue t thrust upon you 
a while back by a mysterious traveler, is a 
scrap of paper with these words: 

seek the heart of the blood red city 
where a casket holds the price of kings 
a sovereign remedy 
if found in time 


As you come within bowshot range of the gate 
to the fortress, you can hear the harsh shouts 
of the guards demanding identification. 

DM's Introduction 

Some parallels with the real world may be 
useful to the DM in describing the general 
atmosphere of Hesuel Ilshar and determining 
the actions of its inhabitants. The climate is 
like that found at higher elevations in Central 
and South America, on the rainier slopes. 
While never cold, the weather can be chilly, 
especially at night. Rains and fogs are fre 
quent. The inhabitants of Hesuel Ilshar are 
rather like ancient Spartans. Fear of superi 
ors, disdain for outsiders and those lower in 
the hierarchy, and constant scheming for 
advancement are characteristic, as are rigid 
personal and social discipline. The atmos 
phere is grim and military. 

Not all parts of the city are detailed. Such 
things as the hoiir-by-hour locations and activ 
ities of all the residents and the contents of 
particular warehouses should be decided by 
the DM if the question arises. 


The PCs' objective will be to find the pre 
cious casket they have been promised by the 
riddle while avoiding members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood and Morgorath and Iiis various 
minions. For details concerning the casket, 
see the appropriate heading below. Mor- 
gorath arrives the same day that the charac 
ters do, along with 26 dopplegangers whom 
he has convinced that life in Hesuel Ilshar will 
be pleasant. He has also convinced them that 
the PCs are a danger to be eliminated. The 
dopplegangers are awed and will do whatever 
Morgorath commands, within reason. 

This adventure is designed for a party of 4-6 
characters whose total levels of experience 
are in excess of 60, The mission is meant to 
test assassin characters. If the PC party does 
not include at least one of these, they will have 
to depend on the skills of thieves, and possibly 
illusionists. It is highly unlikely that they wiU 
succeed if they do not at least proceed with 
guile and subtlety. A frontal attack is likely to 
be disastrous. The key is the gathering of 
information and the careful application of 
force. Because of the difficulty of assessing 



108 








r 


w 


PC abilities and strategies at higher levels of 
play, a number of elements have been includ 
ed which the DM may use at will to make the 
task easier or harder (see "Course Correc 
tions" below)* These can be used without loss 
of plausibility because of the coiled intrigue in 
Hesuel llshar. Everyone is an agent, or at 
| least a tool, of one or more factions. 

Timing will be very important in this adven 
ture, most particularly response time of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood. Given a long enough 
delay, player characters will be able to silence 

I witnesses or make their escape: otherwise 
their difficulties will multiply* Three factors 
work in their favor. The first is surprise: the 
members of the Scarlet Brotherhood do not 
expect danger here from anyone other than a 
member of a rival faction. The second is pride: 
most members of the Brotherhood are 
j extremely arrogant, and will desire to person- 
| ally catch or destroy the player characters if 
they discover them. The third is absolute obe 
dience: the inhabitants of Hesuel llshar are 
not inclined to question any changes or orders 
that seem to have official sanction, since ask 
ing questions might be interpreted as disloyal 
ty. These elements should be emphasized to 
the players at every opportunity, so that they 
may capitalize on them. Used with care, they 
can be used to balance the adventure. 
Response times listed here should be used as 
guidelines, not hard-and-fast rules. 

Characters of the level required for this 
adventure (12 or higher, ideally) might arrive 
in Hesuel llshar in any of a number of ways, 
secret or relatively open. (The above intro 
duction should be modified to suit the circum 
stances.) They cannot pass through the city 
gate without identification, which they must 
either forge or steal. Information concerning 
the Scarlet Brotherhood and Hesuel llshar will 
be sparse, even if characters have made an 
effort to discover it. Any preliminary investi 
gation will reveal the system of identity cards 
and tattoos, and the need for such if they are 
to enter the city or move about in it. If the 
characters do not make this preliminary inves 
tigation, the need will be evident at the city 
gate. They should be allowed to hang back in 
the group of entrants and fade into the fog to 
reconsider their plans. 

Obviously this is not an adventure suited to 
actual members of the Scarlet Brotherhood, 
unless they are renegades with little knowl 
edge of the organization's broader plans and of 
the layout of Hesuel llshar. The DM should 
carefully control the result of any divinatory 
magic that PCs might use either before the 
adventure or during it. Intelligent questions 
and usages should be rewarded, but in terms 
of clues rather than direct answers. Under no 
circumstances should the precise location of 
the casket be revealed in this way. 


Course Corrections 

Imaginative players operating high-level char 
acters are rarely predictable. Some problems 
may turn out to be absurdly easy for a particu 
lar group, or might be circumvented entirely 
because of an unusual course of action. On the 
other hand , it is possible that players will be at 
a loss as to what to do at one or more points in 
this adventure. The Scarlet Brother hood is a 
tightly structured and highly secretive organi 
zation, and it may be that the capabilities of 
the players or the characters are insufficient 
for the adventure to continue. The following 
suggestions may be of some use in such situa 
tions: 

1* Can't Find the Casket: It may be that the 
characters fail to fully appreciate the riddling 
rhyme, or don't understand it, or for one rea 
son or another never see the Garden of Medi 
tation. This is not a great difficulty if they think 
to capture and interrogate members of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood's leadership (possibly 
using charm spells, since other methods 
aren't likely to have any success), or manage 
to spy on a senior member for long enough to 
see or hear something significant. (All mem 
bers of the Brotherhood above 7th level know 
of the casket's existence and that it is in the 
central compound; it is a matter much on the 
minds of all of them and a topic for conversa 
tion among themselves.) Or, they might suc 
cessfully masquerade as members and simply 
ask (remember to play appropriate reactions if 
the characters ask in a way that reveals they 
aren't members). If they don't do any of these 
things, perhaps they deserve to fail, but the 
DM who wants to give them a break might 
have Chan Roh approach them in human form, 
or invisibly, and give a due or two. 

2. Over Too Quick: It is entirely possible 
that the player characters will arrive almost 
immediately in the Garden, figure out where 
the casket is, and proceed to the "final'' 
scenes* If they do this, they have "won," and 
the plague ends, but a new a new adventure is 
possible. Chan Roh will plunge through the 
portal immediately, and the characters will be 
overwhelmed if the members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood attack in force. They must flee, 
either through the portal (in which case see 
the information under "Consequences") or to 
elsewhere in the immediate region. The dop- 
plegangers will still be loose in Hesuel llshar, 
and the resulting disorder might tempt player 
characters to attempt to raid the city in search 
of treasure. Also, the Scarlet Brotherhood 
will deny passage through the portal to the 
Oriental monks who are not part of their orga 
nization, and the player characters may be 
approached with offers of alliance. 

3, Caught or Surrounded: If the player char 
acters are all caught together and have no 
strategy for getting out, then they might be 


released by a traitor. The traitor might be 
someone within the Scarlet Brotherhood, in 
which case the characters will be misdirected 
to a rival's compound in the hope that they will 
do damage before they are caught again, or 
the traitor might be a Suel noble or a secret 
member of one of the other schools of Orien 
tal monks, who for one reason or another 
believes that the characters will be useful if 
they are free and alive. These types will have 
cover stories for themselves, and will not 
accompany the player characters. Last of all, 
very brave slaves might sneak in and let the 
characters loose, either hoping to get away 
along with them or to use their escape as cov 
er for some attempt of their own. This "out" 
shouldn't be used if the characters did some 
thing stupid to get caught: their potential res 
cuers won't be sufficiently impressed with 
their possible value. A Dungeon Master who 
is reluctant to make this sort of judgment call 
might simply roll a die: half the time, someone 
springs the player characters. 

4. Characters Too Tough: If the player char 
acters are walking all over the opposition, 
consider the ingenuity of the Scarlet Brother 
hood's leadership and the extent of the Broth 
erhood's resources. New tactics might be 
evolved (for instance, white powder to dis 
cover invisible opponents), and new equip 
ment (especially such things as wands of 
enemy defection or various scrying devices) 
imported from elsewhere on the plateau. (It 
will be obvious that the Scarlet Brotherhood 
must be storing the bulk of its magical items in 
some spot inaccessible to player characters, 
possibly outside the dty entirely.) Last but 
not least, new personnel might be imported 
(magic-users, clerics, and fighters, for 
instance, if not more monks and assassins), 
and so might new monsters. New tactics 
could appear in as little as half an hour: new 
resources within a day. 

Recent History 

The original alliance between the Oriental 
monks and the Scarlet Brotherhood contained 
the seeds of division, despite similar align 
ments, philosophies, and even symbolic col 
ors. At the root of the difficulty is the Scarlet 
Brotherhood's program for racial superiority. 
While the existence of the Orientals remains a 
secret at lower levels, any member of the 
Brotherhood of 7th level or above is aware of 
them, and some resent them. Initially their 
superior knowledge of martial arts allowed the 
Orientals to maintain something of a balance 
of power, but that advantage has been gradu 
ally eroded, while the need to maintain Sueli- 
tes in exposed public positions has distanced 
them from the centers of power within the 
Scarlet Brotherhood. The second highest 
position within the monkish order is now held 


109 







by one of Suelite background, Korenth Zan. 
He is accessible to all factions, and though he 
is openly committed to none of them he might 
well use hostility to the Orientals to advance 
his position. Even now they confine them 
selves to the inner quarters of He sue! Ilshar 
and go forth among general members of the 
population cowled and in long robes that con 
ceal the color of their skins. 

Several other factors have recently com 
bined to put Hesuel Ilshar in a state of foment. 
Among these are the news of turmoil in the 
Flanaess (which causes some factions to 
press for immediate action), and the 
approaching millennium of the Scarlet Broth- 
erhood's foundation, which many consider to 
be a sign that they should either reform, or go 
forth to conquer, or both. Last but not least, a 
golden box has appeared in the inner courts of 
Hesuel Ilshar at the very place which once 
opened onto Kara-Tur. The highest repre 
sentatives of the monkish order, both Oriental 
and Suel, have received visions intimating that 
this box must be kept secret and safeguarded 
from all others, even those within the Scarlet 
Brotherhood; that it contains an essence vital 
to the continuation of the known order. They 
have also received vague warnings that the 
activities of the PCs (or others like them) are 
a danger, and they have even taken steps to 
eliminate the player characters, although they 
have no hint that the next flurry of activity will 
be within the walls of Hesuel Ilshar itself! 

The Casket 

The casket containing Morgorath's life force 
appeared mysteriously one night next to the 
sundial in the Garden of Meditation in the 
Central Compound of Hesuel Ilshar. It is 
extraordinarily heavy, and seems to be made 
of gold. It is 2 feet long by 1 foot wide by Vz 
foot deep, and has a hinged lid. It is decorated 
with intertwined golden dragons. If it is 
opened, a bright bluish radiance fills the air 
within 10 feet obscuring the casket and ren 
dering the interior invisible. It is immune to 
any sort of magical or physical attack except 
for a blow from a magical weapon wielded by a 
living creature. It has an effective armor class 
of 6, and 16 hit points against such attacks 
before it is destroyed. The highest leaders of 
the Brotherhood have concealed it near the 
place where they found it. For additional infor 
mation, see the entry on Morgorath's beast- 
form in The Mirrors of Fate, and the 
description of the Garden of Meditation 
below. Only members of the Brotherhood 
above 10th level know that the casket is pres 
ently concealed in the Garden of Meditation 
(see below). Those above 7th level know of it, 
but believe it is in the dungeon beneath the 
central buildings. 


Factions and Forces in the City 

Listed here are but a few of the more impor 
tant divisions and powers. The DM may see 
fit to add others according to the course of 
play, or alter these to suit the needs of the 
adventure. Of course, within each alliance 
individuals seek to advance themselves over 
rivals as well as to bring their own faction to 
ascendancy. 

Within the Scarlet Brotherhood, there are 
the obvious divisions according to city quarter 
and according to profession (the assassins, 
the monks, the thieves, and the more diffuse 
orders of fighters and magic-users whose 
headquarters are located in a lesser city). The 
fact that the highest leadership remains within 
the hands of those who are trained as monks is 
a source of unhappiness for all those of other 
professions (calling a monk "father" is partic 
ularly galling to them). In addition to this, 
there are the more fundamental divisions 
according to what might be called political phi 
losophy. 

The Pure Suel faction wishes to expel all of 
the Oriental monks, if they know of them, and 
any other non-Suel influences. Some within 
this faction wish to exterminate them, while 
others would be content to intern them else 
where on the plateau on the chance that they 
might still have some useful knowledge. It is 
also doctrine within this faction that the first 
overt action of the Scarlet Brotherhood 
should be the destruction of the ancient 
"heretical" houses of Rhola and Neheli in the 
Ulek-Keoland regions. 

The Strong Hand faction wishes to begin 
domination of the Flanaess immediately by 
taking covert control of the predominantly 
Suel nations and using them to conquer the 
lands immediately north of the Tilvanot Penin 
sula. 

The High Unity party, which remains large 
ly secret, believes that there is strength in the 
other human races which should be incorpo 
rated into the primarily Suel line. They also 
have hopes that valuable skills may be had 
from nonhumans such as elves and dwarves 
(even though they are destined to be subju 
gated, there is something to be learned from 
them). This faction and the Pure Suel faction 
are deadliest enemies. 

The Millennialists believe some obscure 
and generally discredited statements of the 
"prophet" Huro (officially banished from the 
Brotherhood and sentenced to death by ritual 
torture) . He wrote a hundred years ago that 
"at the millennium of the Foundation a great 
miracle will occur which will be the beginning 
of a purified and strengthened Scarlet Broth 
erhood y This will be the signal to go forth in 
strength to conquer the world. Millennialists 
know that this is The Year (6091 S.D., or 576 
CY, exactly 1.000 years since the Scarlet 


Brotherhood was formed), and are making 
plans. Many lower members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood are Millennialists, and some are 
also members of other factions, particularly 
the Pure Suel. 

The majority within the Scarlet Brother 
hood is committed to the present program of 
careful breeding and training, and to cautious 
control and surveillance of the other regimes 
in the Flanaess. They suppress dissident 
opinions, regarding them as traitorous. Many 
are cynical of those who believe in anything 
but the Right of Might (one of the first pre 
cepts of the Brotherhood). 

The descendants of the original monks from 
Kara-Tur amount to a faction in themselves. 
They are increasingly uncomfortable and iso 
lated, and many of them have come to believe 
that their ancestors were wrong to embrace a 
foreign country and that their political ene 
mies in Kara-Tur are most certainly long 
gone. Certain of the most highly placed among 
them have secretly begun to research ways of 
returning, in cooperation with the other 
schools of Oriental monks who did not join the 
Scarlet Brotherhood and in cooperation with 
certain of the other Oriental creatures that 
crossed over from Kara-Tur at the time (see 
the character descriptions in the "Garden of 
Meditation" section below). 

Outside the Scarlet Brotherhood there 
remain certain disgruntled representatives of 
the former Suel aristocracy on the Tilvanot 
Plateau. While their ancestors submitted to 
the Scarlet Brotherhood's over lordship, they 
retain the rights to their private slave estates, 
at least in theory, and resent the control ema 
nating from Hesuel Ilshar. None are monks; 
many have taken the ancient, honored profes 
sions of fighter or magic-user or assassin. 
These nobles have no formal organization* but 
individuals might take an opportunity to 
embarrass the present rulers of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. Some are presently members, 
if disloyal ones, of that organization. 

Of the original intruders from Kara-Tur, not 
all allied themselves with the Scarlet Brother 
hood. The Sapphire Celestials, of lawful good 
alignment, committed themselves to serene 
contemplation until such time as a gate to their 
homeland should reappear, and chose isolation 
from all outside influences. The Black Order 
was of similar alignment but took a more 
active role, sending secret missions over the 
entire continent and establishing small 
enclaves beyond the Tilvanot Plateau, all in 
search of a new homeward route. The Golden 
Monks, of lawful neutral alignment, chose to 
simply exist on the Tilvanot Plateau in such 
harmony as might be possible. Of these three 
schools, none had the success of the High 
Scarlet Order, which had found an organiza 
tion with similar ideas to its own and even 


110 









(perhaps not by chance) the same colors. The 
Sapphire Celestials, the Black Order, and the 
Golden Monks have been driven into the wild 
er and more isolated regions at the edge of the 
Tilvanot Plateau, but they maintain their own 
progression of Masters in these secret 
monastaries and have taken in and trained 
both escaped slaves and renegade Sue Lite s. 
All have hidden representatives in Hesuel 
Ilshar. These seldom take any overt action, 
but are primarily observers. Such events as 
are associated with the arrival of Morgorath 
and of the player characters may change this. 

Last but not least, there is widespread 
hatred of the Scarlet Brotherhood among the 
slaves. The more recent acquisitions are most 
active; the largely Flan descendants of the 
original natives are more cautious. Slave con 
spiracies are small and recent; they and their 
perpetrators have a short life expectancy. 
Still, they may act against the Scarlet Broth 
erhood if they see an opportunity to do so 
undetected. Most rebels only want to escape, 
either to the wilderness or to someplace 
entirely beyond the Tilvanot Plateau, but only 
if the chance of success is high. 

Forms of Address 

The form of address used in Hesuel Ilshar var 
ies according to rank and profession. A monk 
is "father," an assassin "uncle " and a thief or 
member of one of the other professions 
" cousin " Rank is indicated by the use of the 
words "elder" for one of higher rank, and "lit 
tle" for one of lower rank. Feminine versions 
of these terms are used where appropriate: 
masculine is used in the inclusive sense 
(monks in general are referred to as 
"fathers"). For one who is not within the hier 
archy, or whose rank is unknown, the term 
"excellence" is used-a reference to the indi 
vidual's hereditary potential. Nonhumans who 
are within the military system are addressed 
by rank or function. Non-Suel humans and 
intelligent nonhumans are also addressed by 
rank or function if they are allies or otherwise 
respected. If of unknown profession they are 
called "foreigner." If they are slaves or other 
wise unimportant they are addressed accord 
ing to their function as well, but the speaker 
may add the word "slave" or "impure" 
before or after the description. All of these 
are commons peach translations of the follow 
ing ancient Suel forms: 
sahar = "father" 
rhoidin = "uncle" 
eltesh = "cousin" 

-kal = "senior, greater" 

Ton - "junior, lesser" 
shar = "pure (Suel), excellent" 
issim = "foreigner (respected)" 
bosok = "soiled, slave-person" 


a- or aL = prefix indicating female 
(asahar = "mother," 
aleltesh - "female cousin" etc.) 

Thus, a male of unknown but possibly senior 
rank is "sharkal," a junior monk is "saharfon" 
and a typical foreigner of no station is simply 
known as "bosok," with a prefix indicating 
function if the function is known. Those who 
know the secret of the Orientals never use 
the term "shar" to describe one who is not 
within the monkish system and cannot be 
called "saharfon," "sahar," or "saharkel." 
Instead they use "issim" Suel and common 
speech forms are used interchangeably in 
Hesuel Ilshar; to fail to use them is to be rec 
ognized as a foreigner. All members of the 
Brotherhood speak Ancient Suel among 
themselves. 

City Layout 

City streets are 15 feet wide, and buddings on 
either side run to two stories (about 20 feet 
high). The pavement is cobblestone, which is 
noisy if a cart is driven over it. Paving stones 
can be pried up in 1-3 rounds. 

The city wall is 30 feet high, and walls 
between quarters are 20 feet high, \fells 
around compounds are 15 feet high. These 
walls are 5, 4, and 3 feet thick respectively, 
and made of mortared basalt chunks. There is 
an overhang on all walls that juts out 2 feet, 
since all the walls are roofed with tiles. This 
requires an additional climbing check when 
thieves or assassins pass over it. The walls 
themselves are "smooth but cracked" as per 
the table on page 19 of the Dungeon Masters 
Guide and nonslippery except in fog or rain 
when they are slightly slippery. Compound 
walls and the walls of houses are plastered, 
reducing the rate of climb to that of a smooth 
surface with few cracks (6 feet per round). 
The climber will also leave a discernible trail of 
broken plaster, exposing the dark rock under 
neath, Unless otherwise specified, all doors 
are of stout iron-bound wood. Those set in 
city or quarter walls are 10 feet high, those in 
compound walls are 7 feet high. 

Interiors consist of small personal cubicles 
about five feet square, or bamlike open areas 
for common work, storage, etc. Doors and 
hallways are narrow, and stairs are likewise 
narrow and steep. Windows are small and 
usually shuttered or barred. Some of the large 
areas may be partitioned by sliding screens 
consisting of panes of glazed paper. These are 
the only notably flammable furnishings. 

The following table may be used when char 
acters are in a part of the city that is not desig 
nated as having a particular function, to 
determine what sort of buildings are in the 
immediate vicinity: 


Roll (d8, 

d2) Description 

1 workhouse, grain-grinding 

2 workhouse, weaving 

3 workhouse, dyeing 

4 workshop, carpentry 

5 workshop, jewelry 

6 workshop, smithy 

7 workshop, bakery/food prep. 

8 bathhouse 

9 dormitory, women 

10 dormitory, women and infants 

11-12 dormitory, children 

13 dormitory, slave 

14-15 warehouse 

16 exercise yard 

Wbrkhouses take up 80 feet of frontage, 
workshops take up 40 feet of frontage, bath 
houses 50 feet, and dormitories 120 feet. 
Exercise yards have 300 feet of frontage. 
Workplaces contain about 5 people per 10 feet 
of frontage when fully occupied; bathhouses 
the same. A dormitory houses 10 persons at 
least for each 10 feet of frontage. 

Wbrkhouses and workshops operate dawn 
to dusk, and are run in shifts. The work is 
done diligently, and in silence. Those assigned 
to grinding grain have the hardest work, but 
by way of compensation they can have as 
much grain or flour as they can take without 
being caught. Vigilances (see "Laws and Law 
Enforcement" below) check workhouses 
once per night at a random hour. 

Bathhouses have heated water for better 
cleaning but are otherwise chilly. A monitor 
(see "Laws and Law Enforcement" below) 
takes the clothing of those who enter and 
sends it to be washed. Even identity cards are 
left in the antechamber (this is an opportunity 
for player characters to switch cards with 
someone else). Like other places that are 
abandoned at night, the bathhouses are 
patrolled at least once per night by a squad of 
Vigilances. 

In the dormitories, each group of 10 resi 
dents is overseen by an elder or senior moni 
tor, who exercises severe discipline for fear of 
being caught in leniency by superiors. Food, 
while adequate, is not abundant, and it is com 
mon for children to steal past the monitor and 
break into a nearby warehouse or workhouse 
at night. This is tolerated less and less as they 
grow older; in adults it is not tolerated at all. 

Warehouses have only a pair of monitors, 
who must account for any changes in the 
wares. They are replaced hourly, as are all 
monitors. There is a 30% chance per day that 
a work party will arrive to add goods to or 
remove goods from a warehouse. Note that if 
it is suspected that there are undetected for 
eigners, there will be a sweep of warehouses 
once per day (see "Timetable of Events" 


111 





below), in addition to the usual nightly check. 

Exercise yards are full by day ; senior mem 
bers of the Scarlet Brotherhood (those above 
6th level) may choose to meditate in them at 
night, although an underling always knows 
where they are. 

Cards 

Identification cards are palm-sized and made 
of lacquered wood. Each bears a unique num 
ber, and has a color according to the status of 
the bearer (see the general city description). 
The writing bears, in addition to any other 
information, a description of the holder's hair, 
eye, and skin colors, and a notation as to age 
and sex. Place of residence, rank (if any), and 
occupation are also listed, all in Ancient Suel. 
Guards at any checkpoint will examine individ 
uals to see that they match the description. 
The only way to evade this is to have a red 
card indicating rank above 7th level, and a 
password in Ancient Suel which is changed 
daily. Guards at checkpoints and members of 
the Brotherhood above 7th level all know this 
password, but only Korenth Zan, the Master 
of Obedience (see "Central Compound'") 
knows what it will be from day to day. It is 
reset every dawn, but if he suspects a secu 
rity leak, Korenth Zan will not hesitate to 
change it at other times. 

It is possible for any member of the Broth 
erhood to bring a card carrier of any sort into 
areas for which that member is cleared, to a 
maximum number of persons equal to the 
level of the member. Someone with the spe 
cial card and password can do this even with 
persons who do not have cards themselves. 
However, the guards are required to remem 
ber and record ad such incidents, and unusual 
movements will come under the scrutiny of 
the Father of Obedience or a member of his 
staff. It is not easy to alter a card, or produce 
replicas without access to their production 
center, because of the thick layer of lacquer. 
The secret of lacquer extraction and applica 
tion is one imported by the Orientals, and 
cards are produced only in a single room of the 
House of the Brotherhood in the central com 
pound, Lost cards must be reported immedi 
ately, and that card will no longer be useful 
once a report has been made to the authori 
ties, However, there is often a delay in 
reports, since the penalty for losing a card is a 
severe beating. The penalty for using a stolen 
card is death. 

Accommodations 

Player characters will not find any sort of reg 
ular accommodations in Hesuel llshar unless 
they somehow manage to masquerade as 
legitimate residents. They may of course take 
up residence in the surrounding forest (see 
"Outside the City'* below). The simplest 


method is to supplant visitors and probation 
ers in the Foreigners Dormitory, or to pass 
themselves off as slaves. This has its limita 
tions both in the short term (food good but 
spartan for foreigners; gruel only, with meat 
every third day for slaves) and in the long 
term (see "Timetable of Events"'). Even vis 
iting dignitaries and street-sweeping slaves 
are expected to be present for the morning 
and evening meals: someone will be counting 
noses, , , . 

Slave dormitories sleep groups of 10 or 
more in a common room. Visitors may be 
allowed small private rooms if they are of high 
status, but there will be a watchman at the end 
of the hall and bars (admittedly ornamental- 
looking) on the window. Player characters 
who are, or can appear to be, of Suel blood 
may attempt to replace someone who is in the 
breeding program. The most ambitious may 
attempt to replace someone in one of the 
Compounds: an extremely hazardous under 
taking, and one which will bring them under 
constant supervision even if they succeed. In 
no case will the food be any better than that in 
the Foreigners Dormitory. Perhaps the best 
place for characters to stay is a warehouse, 
preferably one with food in it. However, ware 
houses will be searched if there is any suspi 
cion that there are superfluous or escaped 
persons in Hesuel llshar, and there is at least 
one perfunctory check by Vigilances every 
night. 

Inhabitants and Bystanders 

The following table should be used to deter 
mine who, if anyone, is nearby at critical 
moments when the PCs are on the street in a 
part of the city that is not described in detail. 
From 2-5 such rolls should be made during the 
day and from 0-2 (ld4 -2) at night, when the 
inhabitants of Hesuel llshar who are not on 
guard are likely to be asleep. The definition of 
" nearby is up to the DM, and should be tai 
lored to fit circumstances. "Nearby" might be 
at the window of a second-floor room over 
looking the road, for instance (in which case 
the characters might not notice the person). 

Roll 

(ldlO) Result 

1 children (10 plus 1 supervisor) 

2 young children (10 plus 1 woman) 

3 slave work party (5 plus foreman) 

4 woman, pregnant (50% in Scarlet 
Brotherhood; 50% zero-level) 

5 woman, zero-level 

6 man, zero-level 

7 hobgoblin squad (20 plus leader) 

8 monitor 

9 Vigilances 

10 Scarlet Brotherhood member 


Scarlet Brotherhood members are 35% likely 
to be females. Roll ld3 to determine whether 
a monk, an assassin, or a thief is encountered; 
roll on the following table to find rank, and 
consult the roster under "Compounds" below 
for the characteristics of an individual. 


Roll 


(diOO) 

Result 

01-50 

first level 

51-75 

second level 

76-87 

third level 

88-93 

fourth level 

94-97 

fifth level 

98-99 

sixth or seventh level 

00 

Roll ldlO and add 7 for level 


Encounters Indoors 

No encounter tables are given for the interi 
ors of buildings. Simply roll ld6 each turn. On 
a roll of 1 (at night) or 1-2 (by day), ld6 per 
sons will pass by. One-fourth of the time they 
are zero-level slaves; the rest of the time they 
are residents. Roll randomly to determine 
which resident (s) enter the area. No area is 
private in Hesuel llshar; this rule will cover 
anything but a locked dungeon. 

Laws and Law Enforcement 

The laws of Hesuel llshar are too extensive to 
list in their entirety. The general principle is 
that all actions not compulsory are forbidden, 
and that harsh punishment is the best remem 
bered lesson. The disobedient or disorderly 
are by definition criminal. If the DM is unsure 
as to whether some relatively innocuous 
activity should be illegal, ld6 should be rolled. 
It is illegal without authorization on a score of 
5 or less. Citizens watch carefully for criminal 
activity, although this is the primary task of 
the monitors. 

Monitors are solitary zero-level individuals, 
male or female, who watch a section of street 
or a single area of activity in shifts of one hour 
each before moving on to another assignment. 
There is a 1 in 6 chance that a monitor will 
arrive at a particular point, checked each 
round. Each carries a whistle with which to 
summon aid; monitors themselves do not vol 
untarily fight intruders. 

Monitor-zero-ievel human: AC ID; MV 
12"; hp 4; Dmg 1-6 (jo stick); THAO) 20; AL 
LE or LN. 

The Vigilances pass by any point along the 
street once every 2 turns. If there is a distur 
bance they will arrive within ld6 rounds. 
Their objective will be to capture criminals 
afive, for punishment, but they will attack to 
kill if this seems not to be effective. 
Bystanders are expected to impede fleeing 
criminals at the very least. A force of Vigi 
lances will be composed entirely of monks, 
thieves, or assassins (roll ld3 to determine 


112 





r 







which class) and will contain five 1st level 
characters and one 4th level character of the 
indicated type. (See "Compounds" below for 
statistics.) 

The Vigilances are confident but very pro 
fessional. They will generally allow a distur 
bance or odd occurrence to proceed until they 
have a very good idea of what is afoot, and 
against invaders they may arrange an ambush. 
They will spread out if magic is used, and call 
for help immediately if they meet with resist- 
ance beyond their capabilities. Each member 
of the patrol has a whistle with to summon aid. 
This additional aid will arrive in 1*6 rounds in 
the form of 20 hobgoblins and 1 leader type 
hobgoblin. (See "Hobgoblin Barracks" below 
for statistics.) 

Anything beyond the capabilities of the Vigi 
lances and a squad of hobgoblins will receive 
the attention of the nearest compounds and 
barracks. These soldiers will organize in 3-12 
rounds after they receive word of difficulties, 
and will arrive as swiftly as possible thereafter 
by at least two different routes, to cut off a 
possible escape route. If a pitched battle is 
anticipated, word will be sent to the Central 
Compound, asking for further reinforce 
ments. (Statistics for soldiers are found under 
the heading "Compounds" or "Barracks" 
below.) 

Captured criminals are usually taken to the 
nearest compound of the quarter, stripped of 
all clothing and belongings, and kept in small 
stone rooms without food or water, manacled 
to the wall. These rooms are underground, 
beneath the main compound building. There is 
no window, and the locked door is of beaten 
lead over hard wood. Criminals appear before 
the acting head of the compound, who will 
pass judgment, within one day (roll ldl2 to 
determine the hours before trial; if this brings 
the time to after sundown, then move the trial 
to dawn). Prisoners who look important will 
be examined immediately. A prisoner is not 
permitted to speak unless questioned. If a 
prisoner is reticent or gives information that 
seems to conflict with something else the 
questioners have been told, torture-for the 
purpose of getting the truth, not necessarily 
meant to be lethal-will commence 1-4 hours 
after the initial questioning session. 

Outside the City 

There is an open area 400 yards across out 
side the city walls, kept in very low-growing 
vegetable crops by slaves from Hesuel Ilshar. 
Beyond is the cool upland tropical forest of the 
plateau. This has been left in its natural state, 
and extends for 1 mile in every direction 
before reaching the surrounding plantations. 
This belt of forest contains impoverished wild 
life. More significantly for player characters it 
also contains a small band of tasloi who have 


license to attack and eat any escaped slaves. 
This includes anyone not in the garb of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood. Also, the forest is an 
important part of the training ground for 
young members of the Scarlet Brotherhood. 
Small bands are left in the forest for up to a 
week at a time, and must feed themselves, 
mostly by raiding nearby slave villages. If 
caught , they are beaten. Most will kill to avoid 
such a shameful occurrence. If the player 
characters stay in the forest, use the following 
encounter table. Each hour there is a 1 in 6 
chance of an encounter; reduce this to 1 in 12 
by day, when the tasloi and the trainees are 
resting. If an encounter is indicated, roll ld4 
and refer to the following list: 

1. Trainees: 50% chance of either a squad of 
Vigilances as described above under "Laws 
and Law Enforcement " or 6 youths of zero 
level, with 3 hit points apiece, armed with jo 
sticks and unarmored. 

2. Tasloi (3-12): AC 6; MV 9" @ 15"; HD 1; 
hp 5; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3/1-3; THACO 19; AL 
CE; $A surprise on 1-4, hide in shadows 75%. 

3. Owl: AC 5; MV l"/27"; HD 1; hp 7; MT 
3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/1; THACO 19; AL N; SA dive 
for +2 hit, double damage. 

4. Mongoose (as weasel): AC 6; MV 15"; 
HD V*; hp 2; #AT 1; Dmg 1; THACO 20; AL 
N. 

The DM may wish to check for encounters, 
at a reduced rate, to see whether any stored 
food or equipment is disturbed if characters 
leave any behind. There is no game larger 
than a rabbit. 

City Walls and Gates 
City gates are opened at dawn, noon, and sun 
set, and at the command of any member of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood of 7th level or above. 
There is a 75% chance at dawn, and a 50% 
chance at other openings, that from 1 to 3 of 
the following individuals and groups will pass 
through (roll randomly to determine whether 
they are coming or going). If an entry or exit 
through a gate is indicated, roll ld4 the appro 
priate number of times (one, two, or three) to 
determine the makeup of the travelers. 
(Duplicate ld4 results are possible.) 

1. Messenger-1st level fighter on hght 
warhorse: AC 6 (studded leather and shield); 
MV 9"; HD 1; hp 7; MT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 
Gongs word) or 1-6/1-6 (shortbow); THACO 
20; AL LN or LE. 

Light warhorse: AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 
13; MT 2; Dmg 1-4/1-4; THACO 16; AL N. 

2. New slaves (2d20) and standard party of 
Vigilances (five 1st level, one 4th level; see 
"Compounds" below for statistics). 

3. Goods in ld3 oxcarts, with zero-level 
drivers. Oxcarts are searched by gate guards 
before they can enter or leave the city. The 
drivers are slaves, ordinary' laborers. Oxen 


have the same statistics as bulls. 

4. 2d4 Scarlet Brotherhood operatives (roll 
for level & class on the table under 
"Bystanders" above; statistics are found 
under "Compounds" below). 

Each city gate is responsible for its own 
section of the wall, and patrols it. The gate 
house contains 20 hobgoblins, 2 hell hounds, 
and 15 first level members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood (five each of thieves, monks, 
and assassins), supervised by a 6th level 
assassin, thief, or monk (determine which 
with ld3). They are alert for intruders of all 
sorts, including flying or invisible intruders 
(this is the purpose of the hell hounds). The 
guard is replaced each hour. The first 
response to any intrusion will be to raise an 
alarm by calling out, blowing a hunting horn, 
or striking the large bronze gong in the gate 
house. The second reaction will be to kill the 
intruders; the penalty for passing the city's 
boundaries except via the gates is death. 

Patrols pass by any point of the wall each 
round, in squads of five. There is a 1 in 4 
chance that any squad will contain a hell 
hound, and a 1 in 8 chance that it will contain 
the supervisor. Hell hounds have a 50% 
chance of noticing the scent of any intruder 
who somehow scaled the wall unseen. The 
supervisor is provided with a rope of entan 
glement. He or she also has a wand of nega 
tion and will use it liberally at any suggestion 
of a magical foe. Note that the wand is likely to 
negate magical devices of Dying, conceal 
ment, or climbing, to disastrous effect. Invisi 
ble intruders are still vulnerable, since the hell 
hound can direct fire for the supervisor, but 
they are allowed a saving throw at +4. 

Hell hounds (2): AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 
30; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; THACO 13; AL LE; SA 
breath weapon (6 points), surprise on 14; SD 
surprised on 1, locate hidden/invisible 50%. 

Statistics for Scarlet Brotherhood members 
are given under "Compounds" below; statis 
tics for hobgoblins are under "Hobgoblin Bar 
racks" below. 

Ward Gates 

The Ward Gates are manned by special squads 
of Vigilances of higher level than the general 
patrols; five 2nd level members and one 5th 
level leader, all of the same class (roil ld3 to 
determine which); see "Compounds" below 
for statistics, ttkrd gates are open by day, 
with the usual inspections. They are closed to 
all below 6th level at night. 

Compounds 

All the compounds of the city are built accord 
ing to the same plan. They are wailed as 
described under "City Layout" above (15 feet 
high, 3 feet thick, slight taper, made of mor 
tared basalt with a plaster covering and 


113 





topped with an overhanging roof: effectively a 
smooth surface with few cracks, requiring an 
additional climbing check at the overhang and 
likely to leave marks of passage) . The single 
iron-bound door is guarded by a pair of 4th 
level members of the compound (see below 
for statistics). They examine any who 
approach through a small dosable slit in the 
door. The door is dosed to traffic at night 
(exception: 7th level or higher members of 
the Brotherhood). Carefully monitored traffic 
by day might he any of the following (10% 
chance of traffic each turn: 50/50 chance of 
going in or out). 

Roll 

(ld8) Character(s) 

1 ld4 x 10 zero-level children 

(students) 

2 ld4 x 10 zero-level adults 

(students) 


arranged on either side of a corridor, including 
a lockup for prisoners and various store 
rooms. In the center of the ground floor room 
is a meditation garden. The inhabitants are 6 
fourth level, 4 fifth level, and 4 sixth level 
members, plus the 7th level member of the 
order, who is the day-to-day administrator of 
the compound, and the titular ruler and 
supreme instructor who is of 9th to 12th level 
depending on the profession and on the quar 
ter of the city. 

Following is a list of underlings. The same 
figures may be used for any of the city's four 
compounds. Note that monks, assassins, and 
thieves have special ablUties (not specifically 
listed herein) that may aid them in attack or 
defense. 


Monks: 

1st level monks (50): AC 10; MV 15"; HD 
1; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3 or 1-6 + Vz (jo stick); 
THAC0 20; AL LE or LN. 

2nd level monks (25): AC 9; MV 16"; HD 2; 
hp 9; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4 (open hand) or 1-6 + 1 
(jo stick); THAC0 20; AL LE or LN. 

3rd level monks (12): AC 8; MV 17"; HD 3; 
hp 12; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 {open hand) or 1-6 + 
1 l k (jo stick) or 1-4 + 1 l h (light crossbow); 
THACO 20; AL LE (75%) or LN (25%). 

4th level monks (6): AC 7; MV 18"; HD 4; 
hp 15; MT 5/4 or 1; Dmg 1-6 (open hand, at 
5/4) or 1-6 + 2 (jo stick) or 14 +2 (light 
crossbow); THACO 18; AL LE. 

5th level monks (4): AC 7; MV 19"; HD 5; 
hp 18; MT 5/4 or 1; Dmg 2-7 (open hand, at 
5/4) or 1-6 + 2 Vz (jo stick) or 1-4 + 2Vz (light 


3 ld4 x 10 zero-level adults (workers) 

4 5 slaves plus 1 slave foreman 

5 Vigilances, street duty 

6 Vigilances, ward gate duty 

7 Vigilances, city gate duty 

8 ld4 Scarlet Brotherhood members 

(see subtable in "Inhabitants 
and Bystanders" above) 

There is a large structure in the center of the 
walled area, and the remaining space is 
divided into courtyards where the arts of the 
order are practiced. The narrow divisions 
between courtyards are the dormitories, 
where the junior members of the order sleep 
in spartan simplicity. At all hours of the day a 
proctor may be found at each quarter of the 
compound, standing on the roof of one of the 
junctions between courtyards (a height of 10 
feet), Proctors watch for misbehavior within 
the compound, or unauthorized attempts to 
enter or leave the compound. They are placed 
so that each can see two others (the central 
building prevents surveillance of all three fel 
low proctors), Proctors are 3rd level mem 
bers of their order (thief, monk, or assassin). 
In all, the outer courtyards of the compound 
contain 50 first level members, 25 second 
level members, and 12 third level members. 
One-third of the population is female. 

The broad central building harbors the elite. 
It is two stories high, and raised on a platform, 
with a low pitched roof and a broad overhang 
in the Oriental style but the typical Suel stone- 
and-stucco walls. It is arranged as a hollow 
square. The lower story has workrooms, 
gymnasiums, classrooms, and storerooms, 
while the upper floor has smaller rooms 
(including the tiny private sleeping quarters 
that are the reward for excellence) on either 


Standard Compound Scale: 1 inch = 30 feet 



Gate 


side of a central hallway. Below ground is 


another hollow square of small rooms, also 


114 











crossbow); THAC0 18; AL LE. 

6th level monks (4): AC 6; MV 20"; HD 6; 
hp 25: MT 3/2 or 1; Dmg 2-8 (open hand, at 
3/2) or 1-6 + 3 (jo stick) or 1-4 + 3 (light 
crossbow): THACO 18; AL LE. 

7th level monk: AC 5; MV 21"; HD 7; hp 
28; MT 3/2 or 1; Dmg 3-9 (open hand, at 3/2) 
or 1-6 + 3 l k (jo stick) or 1-4 + SVa (light 
crossbow); THACO 16; AL LE. 

Assassins: 

1st level assassins (50): AC 8 (leather); MV 
12"; HD 1; hp4; MT 1; Dmg 1 -6 (jo stick) or 
1-4 (light crossbow): THACO 20; AL LE; SA 
equipped with type A insinuative poison for 
crossbow bolts (save vs. poison or take 15 
points of damage within 2-5 rounds after being 
hit). 

2nd level assassins (25): AC 8 (leather); 
MV 12"; HD 2; hp 8; MT 1; Dmg 1-6 Qo 
stick) or 1-4 (light crossbow); THACO 20; AL 
LE; SA poison as for 1st level assassins, 

3rd level assassins (12): AC 8 (leather); MV 
12"; HD 3; hp 13; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6 (jo stick) or 
1-4 (light crossbow); THACO 20; AL LE; SA 
poison as for 1st level assassins. 

4th level assassins (6): AC 7 (leather plus 
dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 4; hp 18; MT 
1; Dmg 1-6 (jo stick) or 1-4 (light crossbow); 
THACO 20; AL LE: SA equipped with type B 
insinuative poison for crossbow bolts (save 
vs, poison or take 25 points of damage within 
1-3 rounds after being hit). 

5th level assassins (4): AC 7 (leather plus 
dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 5; hp 20; MT 
1; Dmg 1-6 (jo stick) or 1-4 (light crossbow); 
THACO 19; AL LE; SA poison as for 4th level 
assassins. 

6th level assassins (4): AC 4 (leather +2 
plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 6; hp 27; 
MT 1; Dmg 1-6 (short sword), 1-4 (light 
crossbow), special (garotte); THACO 19; AL 
LE; SA equipped with type C insinuative poi 
son for blade and crossbow bolts (save vs. 
poison or take 35 points of damage immedi 
ately), 

7th level assassin: AC 4 ( bracers of defense 
AC 6 plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 7; 
hp 35; #AT l or 2; Dmg 1-8 (long sword) plus 
1-4 (dagger in left hand) or 1-4 (light cross 
bow) or special (garotte): THACO 19; AL LE; 
SA poison as for 6th level assassins. 

Thieves: 

1st level thieves (50): AC 8 (leather); MV 
12"; HD 1; hp4; MT 1; Dmg 1-2 (sap) or 14 
(light crossbow); THACO 20; AL LE or LN; 
SA sap has 50% chance to cause unconscious 
ness on a blow to the unarmored head. 

2nd level thieves (25): AC 8 (leather); MV 
12"; HD 2; hp 8; MT 1; Dmg 1-2 (sap) or 1-4 
(light crossbow); THACO 20; AL LE or LN; 
SA sap attack as per 1st level thief. 


3rd level thieves (12): AC 8 (leather); MV 
12"; HD 3; hp 12; MT 1; Dmg 1-2 (sap) or 1- 
4 (light crossbow); THACO 20; AL LE; SA 
sap has 55% chance to cause unconsciousness 
on a blow' to the unarmored head. 

4th level thieves (6): AC 7 (leather plus 
dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 4; hp 18; MT 
1; Dmg 1-2 (sap) or 14 (light crossbow): 
THACO 20; AL LE; SA sap has 60% chance to 
cause unconsciousness on a blow to the unar 
mored head. 

5th level thieves (4): AC 7 (leather plus 
dexterity bonus): MV 12"; HD 5; hp 20; #AT 
1; Dmg 1-2 (sap) or 14 (light crossbow); 
THACO 19; AL LE; SA sap has 60% chance to 
cause unconsciousness on a blow to the unar 
mored head. 

6th level thieves (4): ACS (leather +1 plus 
dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 6: hp 30; MT 
1; Dmg 2-9 ( longsword +1) or 1-2 (sap) or 1- 
4 (light crossbow); THACO 19; AL LE; SA 
sap has 65% chance to cause unconsciousness 
on a blow to the unarmored head, 

7th level thief: AC 4 (bracers of defense AC 
6 plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; HD 7; hp 
35; MT 1 or 2: Dmg 3-10 ( longsword +2) 
plus 2-5 ( dagger + J) or 1-2 (sap) or 14 (light 
crossbow); THACO 19; AL LE; SA sap has 
70% chance to cause unconsciousness on a 
blow to the unarmored head. 

The leaders of the various peripheral com 
pounds are described below, 

la) The Northern Monks Compound: Ihilin 
Soron-9th level monk f Master of the North 
Wind: AC 1; MV 23"; hp 48; MT by weapon 
or 2 open-hand attacks: Dmg 3-12 (open 
hand) or 1-6 + 5Va (jo stick) or 14 + 4 V 2 
(light crossbow); Str 17, Int 17, Wis 14, Dex 
15, Con 17, Cha 15; THACO 16; AL LE. 
Items carried/worn: potion of speed, ring of 
protection +2, ring of truth . Middle-aged 
man, balding, tall. Cautious. No special fac 
tion. 

lb) The Northern Assassins Compound: 
Sham Zereth-9th level assassin: ACS ( brac 
ers ); MV 12"; hp 55; MT 1; Dmg 1-8 + 3 
(longsword) or 14 +2 (dagger); Str 16, Int 
13, Wis 15, Dex 15, Con 17, Cha 18; THACO 
16; AL LE. Items carried/worn: dagger of 
venom +1, longsword +2, bracers of 
defense AC 5, type D insinuative poison. 
Young man, very pale, white-blond hair, slen 
der, pale blue eyes. Fanatic Millennialist and 
Pure Suelite. Hates the Orientals, 

l c) The Northern Thieves Compound: 
Fherin Herbal-9th level thief: (Away on a 
mission to the eastern Tilvanot Plateau.) 

2a) The Western Monks Compound: Li 
Wu-lOth level monk T Master of the Best 
Wind: AC 3; MV 24"; hp 43; MT 2 (open 
hand) or by weapon; Dmg 3-13 (open hand) or 
1-6 + 2 (axe); Str 16, Int 11, Wis 15, Dex 16, 


Con 15, Cha 11; THACO 14; AL LE. Items 
carried/worn: throwing axe +2, potion of 
extra-healing, ring of fire resistance. Stocky, 
taciturn woman. Oriental. Dislikes most 
Suelites. 

2b) The Wsstem Assassins Compound: 
Torith Sul - 10th level assassin: AC 4 (leather 
plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; hp 50: MT by 
weapon: Dmg 1-8 + 3 (longsword) plus 14 
(dagger in left hand); Str 12, Int 16, Wis 13, 
Dex 18, Con 15, Cha 14; THACO 16; AL LE. 
Items carried/worn: longs word +3, potion of 
invisibility, rope of climbing, type D insinua- 
tive poison. Elderly man, brown-haired, 
freckled. Member of High Unity faction, and 
very sensitive about freckled skin. 

2c) The Western Thieves Compound: Alrha 
Tenet/?- 10th level thief: AC 3 ( leather +2 
plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; hp 49; MT by 
weapon; Dmg 1-8 (longsword) plus 14 (dag 
ger in left hand); Str 15, Int 14, W/is 15, Dex 
17, Con 15, Cha 16; THACO 16; AL LE. 
Items carried/worn: cloak of elvenkind , ring 
of feather falling, leather armor +2. Tall wom 
an with light red hair, blue eyes. Disconcert 
ing stare, harsh voice. No faction. 

3a) The Southern Monks Compound: Ho 
Teng-llth level monk , Master of the South 
Wind: AC 2; MV 25"; hp 47; MT 5/2 (open 
hand) or by weapon; Dmg 4-13 (open hand) or 
1-6 + 7 l k (axe): Str 15, Int 14, Wis 15, Dex 
16, Con 15, Cha 11; THACO 14; AL LE, 
Items carried/wom/possessed: carpet of fly 
ing (4-person size), ioun stone (pearly white; 
regenerates 1 hit point per turn), throwing 
axe +2. Oriental, slender, elderly man. 

3b) The Southern Assassins Compound: 
Mhir Sheresh-llth level assassin: (Away on 
a mission to Verbobonc.) 

3c) The Southern Thieves Compound: 
Iheth Mord-llth level thief: AC 7 Oeather); 
MV 12"; hp 44; MT by weapon; Dmg 1-6 + 2 
(shortsword); Str 15, Int 13, Wis 12, Dex 15, 
Con 13, Cha 15; THACO 16; AL LE. Items 
carried/worn: scroll of protection from ele- 
mentals (all), potion of speed, shorts word 
+ 2 . Middle-aged man. Jet black eyes, very 
pale skin. Laconic, No faction, 

4a) The Eastern Monks Compound: Tai 
Cho-12th level monk, Mistress of the East 
Wmd: AC 1; MV 26"; hp 51; MT 5/2 open 
hand, 1 by weapon; Dmg 4-16 (open hand) or 
1-6 + 6 (bo stick), or 14 + 7 (light cross 
bow); Str 15, Int 13, Wis 16, Dex 15, Con 15, 
Cha 11; THACO 14; AL LE. Items carried/ 
worn/possessed: potion of human control 
(any), net of entrapment , crossbow of speed. 
Beautiful young Oriental woman. 

4b) The Eastern Assassins Compound: 
Kelshar Iss-12th level assassin: AC 2 (leath 
er +3 plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; hp 72; 
MT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 (longsword) plus 1-6 
(hand axe in left hand); Str 13, Int 17, Wis 12, 


115 








Dex 17, Con 16, Cha 11; THACO 16; AL LE. 
Items carried/wom: leather armor +3, dust 
of invisibility, brass horn of Valhalla T type D 
insinuative poison. Tall, middle-aged man, 
very fair, one-eyed. Sue! noble stock; has res 
ervations about Brotherhood. 

4c) The Eastern Thieves Compound: Shara 
Fon-12th level thief: AC 5 (leather plus dex 
terity bonus); MV 12"; hp 69; 0AT by weap 
on; Dmg 1-8 + 3 (longsword) plus 1-4+3 
(dagger in left hand); Str 16, Int 17, Wis 11, 
Dex 17, Con 16, Cha 18; THACO 16; AL LE. 
Items carried/wom: dagger +2 t longsword 
+2, ioun stone (lavender & green; absorbs 
up to 50 spell levels from spells under eighth 
level in power). Short, slender, broad-faced 
woman of middle age. Short temper. Strong 
Hand faction. 

Hobgoblin Barracks 

This has the appearance of another dormitory. 
There are 60 hobgoblins of the ordinary sort 
and 6 leaders in each barracks, one per quar 
ter of Hesuel llshar. No more powerful hob 
goblins have been allowed into the city, as it is 
thought they might cause a disturbance. The 
hobgoblins are as grimly silent as the humans, 
and are by force of discipline as obedient as 
the humans of Hesuel llshar. 

Hobgoblins (60): AC 5 (chain mail); MV 9"; 
HD 1 + 1; hp 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10 (halberd); 
THACO 18; AL LE. 

Hobgoblin leaders (6): AC 4 (banded mail); 
MV9"; HD 1 + l;hp9; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 + 1 
(longsword); THACO 17; AL LE. 

Men's Dormitory 

This is much like the women's dormitories 
scattered through the city, and has a similar 
purpose. There is only one, since the resi 
dence time for men is so much shorter. The 
inhabitants are all zero-level individuals 
judged to have potentialities useful in the 
breeding program. As with women, men in 
the breeding program who are members of 
the Scarlet Brotherhood are housed at one of 
the city's compounds according to their pro 
fessions, and those with other character-class 
abilities are housed in the Visitors' Dormitory. 

Visitors' Dormitory 

Though outwardly quite similar to the other 
dormitories, the Visitors Dormitory is one of 
the more comfortable buildings in the city, 
though it is still very chill and spare, and the 
food is only marginally more abundant. It 
houses an assortment of temporary residents 
in Hesuel llshar who are not of the Brother 
hood but have some status. 

There are two wings, one for men and one 
for women, and there a meditation garden and 
exercise yard are attached. Some are notably 
able people of Suel blood who have been 


enticed here for the breeding program. Oth 
ers are ambassadors of one sort or another, 
mostly those of various criminal organiza 
tions, who have been brought here so that 
they will be overawed and agree to an " alli 
ance" with the Scarlet Brotherhood. Others 
yet are potential members of the Brotherhood 
proper, or of its subsidiary fighter and magic- 
user branches, there for a period of mutual 
inspection. A few are instructors or consult 
ants in various arts. 

Visitors are allowed to retain whatever 
equipment they have brought with them, 
except for weapons, armor, and magical 
items, which are taken to the Central Com 
pound and returned when (or if) the visitors 
leave. All have temporary cards, of course. 
Half of the Visitors who are not from the 
Tilvanot plateau will for one reason or another 
be willing to change places with a similar play 
er character in return for passage out of 
Hesuel llshar. Increase this to 90% once the 
plague starts. Residents include the following 
(the DM should feel free to add more; there 
will be at least one representative of every 
player-character race (dwarf, elf, etc.) here; 
in a pinch, use the figures given for Ulug or Til 
and add appropriate racial advantages): 

Hugin Fairfoot-9th level human fighter: 
AC 9; MV 12"; hp 81; #AT 3/2; Dmg by 
weapon; Str 18/59, Int 15, Wis 8, Dex 16, 
Con 17, Cha 13; THACO 12; AL CN(G), 

Hugin was contacted by an agent of the 
Brotherhood among the Frost Barbarians, 
and lured south with a promise of a well-paid 
position. In fact, the agent did not consider 
him as a recruit but rather (because of his 
superior characteristics) as an element in the 
breeding program. This has been accom 
plished by various stratagems. Hugin is now 
aware that he was duped, and is thoroughly 
disgusted. He is also canny enough to know 
that he will never see home again unless 
somehow he escapes, and he is desperately 
trying to think of a plan. Hugin is taU, with 
abundant curly red hair, blue eyes, a loud 
voice, and a bluff manner. He is 33 years old. 

Til Stoneglitter-lst level gnome lighter: 
AC 10; MV 9"; hp 5; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; 
Str 13, Int 16, Wis 9, Dex 15, Con 12, Cha 6; 
THACO 20; AL N, 

Til was brought to the city as an expert 
gemcutter and jeweler, with certain false 
promises concerning pay. He has been here 
one year, and expects now that he will be 
killed once he has taught all he knows. He is a 
balding middle-aged gnome, with a weather 
beaten face and a waspish temper. 

UlugSth level half-ore thief: AC 10; MV 
12 "; hp 28; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; Str 16, 
Int 11, Wis 10, Dex 14, Con 15, Cha 4; 
THACO 16; AL NE. 

Ulug is an advisor to a crime lord in Heli 


port, He is thoroughly depressed and unhap 
py, and ready to report back to his leader. 

Sarn Kfea verson; This is actually one of 
Morgorath's disguises! (See the entry on 
Morgorath's beastform in The Mirrors of 
Fate for more information.) As Sam, he will 
spy on the characters until an opportunity for 
attack presents itself. 

Central Compound 

The Central Compound is larger than the oth 
ers, and has more than one building. Rather 
than yet another training ground for lesser 
monks, thieves, and assassins, it is the resi 
dence for certain of the higher members of the 
Scarlet Brotherhood and the administrative 
center for the organization. Admittance is 
highly restricted, most particularly because 
this is also the residence of the Oriental 
monks. Any servants, slaves, or lower mem 
bers of the Brotherhood (below 7th level) who 
are found here are necessarily permanent res 
idents. 

The gates are each guarded by a 7th level 
member of the Brotherhood, assisted by a 
pair of hell hounds and provided with a gem of 
true seeing and a rope of entanglement. Other 
than their equipment, these are standard 7th 
level members of the Brotherhood (see 
"Compounds" above for statistics concerning 
these). 

Hell hounds (2): AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 
30; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; THACO 13; AL LE; SA 
breath weapon (6 points), surprise on 1-4; SD 
surprised on 1, locate liidden/invisible 50%. 

There is a 25% chance per half-hour that 
someone will approach the gates to the Cen 
tral Compound on normal business. If an 
encounter is indicated, roll ld4 and consult 
the following list. 

1. Courier (zero-level; hands message 
through gate). 

2. Slaves or porters numbering ld6 (pack 
ages are handed to Inner Compound ser 
vants), 

34. Scarlet Brotherhood member (roll ld3 
for profession, ld6 for level). 

Children's Dormitory: This dormitory is 
exactly like those in the rest of the city, except 
that the 50 children here are all offspring of 
Oriental monks. They are raised in the same 
way, but never exposed to public view in 
Hesuel llshar. They do see the outside world, 
but careful measures are taken so that they 
are not seen by lower members of the order 
within Hesuel llshar itself. 

Inner Servants' Dormitory; This is where 
those of the Orientals who are not fit to 
become monks reside. They number no more 
than 25; excellent heritage and rigorous effort 
have allowed all other adults to succeed. The 










Inner Servants tend to the mundane tasks of 
the Central Compound, and never leave it. 

The Garden Of Meditation 

This meditation garden is less austere and 
much larger than the smaller versions found 
elsewhere in the city, and shows more Orien 
tal influence. There are groves of gingko 
trees, a rustling stand of bamboo, and a collec 
tion of contorted pines. Bonsai are placed at 
strategic points along the twisting gravel 
paths, and there are low stone benches. A 
large informal pond contains colored carp. 

Near the center of the garden is a huge sun 
dial of bronze set in a large black boulder. It 
may be seen that the gravel within 10 feet of 
the boulder is carefully raked, whereas the 
gravel of the paths around it is scuffed. 

This place will be deserted when the player 
characters first encounter it, and is 50% likely 
to be unoccupied at any time that they should 
happen to return. It is reserved for the use of 
the highest representatives of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood, but those of Suel background 
seldom frequent it. In part because it is so 
rarely frequented, this is the spot chosen for 
the hiding of the golden casket that contains 
Morgorath's life essence. It has been placed 
in a chamber beneath the boulder. Guarding it 
are six gargoyles. The terms of their servi 
tude are that they shall rend to pieces anyone 
who steps within the 10-foot circle and is not 
one of the members of the Scarlet Brother 
hood who knows the casket is there (10th 
level members and above). They are not oth 
erwise to attack or make themselves known. 
They have been rendered invisible, and are 
lurking in various parts of the garden. They 
are always awake, and always angry. If the 
area is disturbed by unauthorized persons, 
they will quickly organize and then attack at 
the first opportunity. This will almost certainly 
attract the attention of the nearest residents. 

Chun Lung, the Grand Master of Flowers, 
will be in the garden meditating, wearing a 
cloak of elvenkind and an amulet of proof 
against detection and location , hidden among 
some boulders clustered not 20 feet from the 
sundial. He will not take part in any melee that 
occurs, but is waiting for the moment that the 
casket is unearthed and destroyed by the 
player characters. 

The pool is the sometime home of Chan Ro, 
a small ancient t'ien lung or celestial dragon. 
Chan Ro is presently polymorphed into the 
form of a 2-foot-long golden carp, a unique 
ability she was granted by the Celestial 
Emperor when she still dwelt in the land of 
Kara-Tur (she is otherwise a normal celestial 
dragon). When any new persons enter the 
garden, Chan Ro will surface to survey the sit 
uation, If the player characters become 
engaged in a protracted struggle and it does 


not appear that they will be able to win against 
a greater number of opponents, Chan Ro may 
use her powers to prevent additional mem 
bers of the Scarlet Brotherhood from attack 
ing and interfering with the result, Chan Ro 
will not in any way interfere with the actions of 
Morgorath, and will flee if her life is endan 
gered. 

If the casket containing Morgorath "s soul 
object is touched by living humans or demi- 
humans, Morgorath will teleport to the spot 
instantly. He will get as near to the casket as 
he can, and will use all his persuasive power to 
convince them that he should have possession 
of it. If the casket is opened almost immedi 
ately after the characters find it, he will also 
try to persuade them to close it. If this fails, 
he will attack, and fight to the death if neces 
sary, to gain possession of it. If Morgorath is 
standing with his back to the open casket 
when he launches his attack, he will thought 
lessly step backward first, in which case he 
will be annihilated. If the casket is smashed by 
someone during the course of melee, the 
result will be the same. If Morgorath is 
destroyed but the casket is not, either Chan 
Ro or Chun Lung will attempt to persuade the 
player characters to break open the casket. If 
the PCs attempt to flee instead, they will be 
detained and possibly even attacked by the 
two. 

If the casket is destroyed in the presence of 
Chun Lung, he will leap into the blast so pro 
duced, destroying himself. A semi-permanent 
one-way gate to western T'u Lung in the land 
of Kara-Tur is thereby created. The result is 
further described and explained under "Con 
sequences" below. The magic is such that 
Chun Lung and Chan Ro cannot cause the 
result they wish by destroying the casket 
themselves. The portal cannot be opened if 
the person w T ho destroys the casket knows 
that it is possible. 

Gargoyles (6): AC 5; MV 9'715"; HD 4 + 
4; hp 36 each; MT 4; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6/M; 
THACO 15; AL CE; SD only hit by +1 or bet 
ter weapon. 

Chun Lung-17th level monk: AC - 3; MV 
32"; hp 85; MT 4 (open hand); Dmg 8-32 
(open hand); Str 17, Int 16, Wis 18, Dex 16, 
Con 16, Cha 16; THACO 10; AL LN(E). Items 
carried/worn; cloak of elvenkind, amulet of 
proof against detection and location. Very old 
Oriental man, robust build. Has recently had 
vision of how to save his order through actions 
listed above. Confided in Chan Roh. 

Chan Roh-small ancient celestial dragon: 
AC -2; MV 9 r 748'7/6"; HD 11; hp 88; MT 
3: Dmg 1-6/1-6/4-40; THACO 10; AL LN; SA 
breath weapon and spells. Chan Roh entered 
the Flanaess with the monks, but longs for her 
own kind now* and wishes to return. 


The House of The Masters 

This is the permanent residence of all mem 
bers of the Scarlet Brotherhood who are 
above 12th level, plus those of 7th level with 
out other assignments at present. Also, any 
member of the Scarlet Brotherhood who 
ascends to 8th level lives here for a probation 
ary period under the eyes of the supreme 
masters before being granted any higher post. 
None of the 8th level members is presently 
located here; all are away on assignments. 
Also living here is the only magic-user resid 
ing in He suel Ilshar at the time of the player 
characters" visit: I la Fethuel, who is from the 
subsidiary college of mages that serves the 
Brotherhood and which has its headquarters 
elsewhere on the Tilvanot Plateau. 

In overall plan this building is exactly as the 
central buildings of the subsidiary compounds, 
though the number of nonresidential rooms on 
the upper story is smaller and the number of 
inhabitants is higher. The other minor differ 
ence is that the four quarters within and 
immediately around the building are the 
domains of specific Masters of the Order. 
There are three per quarter, one of each pro 
fession, and they command in the usual order: 
monk over assassin over thief. Each quarter 
of the building is known as a "house." 

The House of Summer; This is the dwelling 
place of the Master of Summer and his equiva 
lents in the other orders. It is also the tradi 
tional place where ventures and assaults 
toward the south are planned, and the interior 
walls have murals of the southern jungles and 
seas. 

Chai Fung-15th level monk: AC "4; MV 
29"; hp 70; MT 3 (open hand) or 1 (weapon); 
Dmg 6-24 (open hand) or 1-6 + llVz (axe); 
Str 15, Int 17, Wis 15, Dex 18. Con 16. Cha 
13; THACO 12; AL LE. Items carried/wom: 
axe +4, crossbow of distance, potion of 
human control , potion of healing, ring of pro 
tection +3. Oriental man, young, ambitious, 
likes Suelite ways. 

Lorof Fehr-13th level assassin: AC 5 
(leather); MV 12"; hp 78; MT by weapon; 
Dmg 1-8 + 1 (longsword): Str 16, int 14, Wis 
13, Dex 15, Con 18, Cha 17; THACO 14; AL 
LE. Items carried/wom: hat of difference, 
ring of invisibility, Keoghtom 's ointment, 
scroll of protection from shapechangers (all), 
type D insinuative poison. Medium height, 
elderly, amiable-seeming man. Vindictive. No 
faction* but sees all monks as impediments to 
own ambitions, 

Martesk Soron-13th level thief: (Away on 
expedition to Sea of Dust.) 

The house also includes three each of 7th 
level monks, thieves, and assassins (see 
" C ompound s rr for stati s tics). 


117 








The House of Autumn; This is the domain of 
the Master of Autumn and her peers, and is 
the meeting place when members of the Scar 
let Brotherhood meet to consider strategies 
and policies concerning the western parts of 
the Flanaess. The Sea of Dust figures promi 
nently in the murals painted on the walls of its 
rooms, 

Chen Bao-14th level monk: (Away on 
embassy to Sapphire Brother hood.) 

Sencha Rhesp-13th level assassin: AC 6 
(leather and shield); MV 12"; hp 67; MT 1; 
Dmg 1-8 + 4 (longsword); Str 13, Int 16, Wis 
11, Dex 15, Con 15, Cha 13; THACO 14; AL 
LE. Items carried/worn; shorts word +4, 
ring of truth, boots of levitation , Keoghtom s 
ointment, type D insinuative poison. Power 
fully built, fair-haired, middle-aged woman. 
Paranoid. Some Millennialist leanings. 

Firm Sul-13th level thief: AC 4 (leather 
armor and ring); MV 12"; hp 57; #AT 1; Dmg 
1-8 (longsword); Str 15, Int 18, Wis 13, Dex 
13, Con 15, Cha 15; THACO 14; AL LE, 
Items carried/worn; scroll of protection from 
magic, ring of chameleon power, ring of pro 
tection +4. Young man of medium height, 
pale blue eyes, charming manner. Cunning 
and manipulative. No faction; an opportunist. 

The house also includes three each of 7th 
level monks, thieves, and assassins (see 
''Compounds" for statisties). 

The House of Winter: The Master of Winter 
and other fifth-ranking members of the Scarlet 
Brotherhood reside here. The meetings held 
here concern matters to the north, and the 
House of Winter is appropriately decorated. 

Missek Sham-13th level monk: AC 0; MV 
27"; hp 55; AT 5/2 (open hand) or 1 (weap 
on); Dmg 5-17 (open hand) or 1-6 + 9Va 
(staff); Str 15, Int 14, Wis 15, Dex 15. Con 15, 
Cha 13; THACO 14; AL LE, Items carried/ 
worn; wings of hying, quarterstaff +3, wand 
of enemy detection, potion of extra-healing. 
Middle-aged, scarred face, pallid skin. Soft 
voice. No politics. 

Sifir Vohn-12th level assassin: (Away on a 
mission to RauxesJ 

Hissek Rhesp-12th level thief: AC 1 
(leather +4 plus dexterity bonus); MV 12"; 
hp45; 0AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 + 3 (longsword) 
plus 1-4 (dagger in left hand); Str 11, Int 17, 
Wis 10. Dex 18, Con 12, Cha 17; THACO 16; 
AL LE. Items carried/worn; potion of speed, 
ring of fire resistance r leather armor +4, 
longsword +3, Middle-aged, balding, high 
brow. Very cautious. Pure Suel leanings, but 
not aligned. 

The house also contains three each of 7th 
level monks, thieves, and assassins (see 
"Compounds^ for statistics). 

The House of Spring: This holds the second 


rank of the Scarlet Brotherhood's leadership, 
including the feared Korenth Zan, Master of 
Spring and Father of Obedience, the de facto 
ruler of the entire Scarlet Brotherhood. The 
murals inside this house are mostly of the sea, 
and other aspects of the western lands. As 
Father of Obedience, Korenth Zan also super 
vises the small workshop that produces iden 
tity cards for the entire city, which is manned 
by three zero-level Orientals. It is guarded 
day and night by relays of 7th level members 
(ld3 for character class) on one-hour shifts. 

Korenth Zan-16th level monk: AC -2; 
MV 30"; hp 60; #AT 4/1 or by weapon; Dmg 
5-30 or by weapon type + 8; Str 17, Int 11, 
Wis 16, Dex 17, Con 18, Cha 13; THACO 10; 
AL LE. Items carried/worn: jo stick +5, 
crossbow of accuracy +3, ring of invisibility 
ring ofmarid summoning. Average sized man, 
pale skin, black eyes. Suspicions verge on 
paranoia. No faction, but wishes to use anti- 
Oriental sentiment for advancement. See 
Greyhawk Adventures for more information, 

Firuz Tesh-14th level assassin: (Away on 
mission to Hold of Sea Princes.) 

Ista Prad-14th level thief: AC 2 (leather) ; 
MV 12"; hp 50; 0AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 + 1 
(longsword) plus 1-4 (dagger in left hand); Str 
11, Int 17, Wis 10, Dex 18, Con 12, Cha 17; 
THACO 14; AL LE. Items carried/worn: ring 
of warmth, ring of protection +2 f potion of 
invisibility, gem of true seeing, longsword 
+1* Small, slighdy built young woman, with 
bright green eyes. Poisoner and blackmailer. 
Least trusted of inner circle. 

The house also contains three each of 7th 
level monks, thieves, and assassins (see 
"Compounds" for statistics). 

The Supreme Masters: These are the 
highest-level members of the Scarlet Broth 
erhood, though not in fact the ultimate rulers 
of the Brotherhood. Chen Lung is disqualified 
because he is not Suel, and the Grand Master 
of Assassins and Grand Master of Thie ves are 
both beneath the rank of Chai Fung, the Mas 
ter of Summer. Nevertheless they are heads 
of their orders within the Brotherhood. Their 
duties are wide-ranging, and so they have 
command over no specific area. Their Quar 
ters are in no way distinguishable from those 
of other high members of the Brotherhood. 

Issor Ferh-15th level assassin: AC -1 
(bracers); MV 12"; hp 90; #AT 1 or2; Dmg 1- 
8 + 5 (longsword) plus 1-4 + 2 (dagger in left 
hand); Str 16, Int 17, Wis 15, Dex 18, Con 17, 
Cha 14; THACO 14; AL LE. Items carried/ 
worn: dagger of venom, crossbow of dis 
tance, longsword +4 defender, efreeti bottle, 
cloak of elvenkind, scroll of protection from 
magic, bracers of defense (AC 3), Ancient 
man, with piercing blue eyes; vigor main 
tained by magical potions. Vague quavering 


voice is an act. Utterly ruthless and loyal to 
Brotherhood. No faction. 

Telek Senh-15th level thief: AC 0; MV 
12"; hp 70; j^AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1-8 + 4 (long 
sword) plus 1-4+1 (dagger in left hand) ; Str 
16, Int 17, Wis 15, Dex 18, Con 16, Cha 17; 
THACO 14; AL LE. Items carried/wom: 
bracers of defense (AC 4), wand of lightning 
bolts, longs word +3, ioun stone (lavender & 
green; absorbs up to 50 spell levels from 
spells of eighth level of power or less), potion 
of invisibility Very young and ambitious, 
extreme Suel type. Pure Suel faction. 

Ila Fethuef-llth level magic-user: AC 5; 
MV 12"; hp 45; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4+2 (dag 
ger); Str 13, Int 17, Wis 15, Dex 16, Con 15, 
Cha 14; THACO 16; AL LE. Items carried/ 
worn: broom of Hying, wand of fire, crystal 
ballrube of the archmagi, Keogh tom's oint 
ment, dagger +2. Typical spells memorized: 
armor, magic missile, detect magic, shocking 
grasp, invisibility, web, know alignment, ESP, 
fireball, invisibility 10' radius, slow, tongues, 
charm monster, fire shield, confusion, conjure 
elemental, teleport, wall of iron. Tall, black 
haired, narrow build. Korenth Zan's present 
lover. Noble Suel background, and will aban 
don all others if endangered. 

The Subcompound of Oriental Monks: This is 
where those among the Orientals who are lit 
to become monks live. It is essentially the 
same as one of the monks' compounds in the 
outer parts of the city, but the inhabitants are 
Oriental rather than Suel, half the population 
is female, and the overlord is the Grand Mas 
ter of Flowers himself. It is guarded in the 
same way. Use the statistics listed for monks 
under "Compounds" for the inhabitants. 

Events 

Events are aspects of the adventure which 
overtake the player characters whether they 
take any action or not. As a general rule, they 
might happen sooner if the circumstances 
require it, but they should not happen any lat 
er without a very good reason. Two sorts of 
events are shown below. One Is a timetable of 
general events in He suel Ilshar; the other is a 
description of particular events which the 
player characters will very probably experi 
ence as they search for the casket. 

Morgorath's Attacks 

This is a recurring event, beginning on the 
second day of the PCs' adventure in He suel 
Ilshar. Morgorath has spied on the player 
characters using the druid spell reflecting pool 
unless they have means to prevent it, or 
detect the scrying and negate it. He will know 
approximately where they are and what dis 
guises they have taken. He will then proceed 
to the area and stalk the group. C ire urns tanc- 


118 






es will vary; he may disguise himself as Tira 
Imharvon, or even as Sam Weaverson 
(though he will reserve this disguise to spy on 
the player characters if they are living in the 
Visitors Dormitory), or as a lowly slave. As 
Tira Imharvon, he has a proper card identify 
ing him as a 7th level assassin of noble Suel 
blood who has recently returned from assign 
ment, After a period of observation he will 
either try to attack a lone PC in an unguarded 
moment, snipe at them from a distance (either 
with spells or with crossbow bolts that have 
been dipped in type D poison), or betray them 
to the authorities: whatever seems most 
effective. There is a 10% chance per hour that 
the characters operate in the city that Mor- 
gorath will find them, to a minimum of once 
per day. He will always make a rapid escape, 
and he will work hard not to "blow** his two 
character covers (Sam and Tira). Naturally, if 
he is seriously wounded or has spent most of 
his power, he will wait until he has recovered 
(delay any checks). 

The Discovered Doppleganger 

This is an event that will occur sometime 
when the characters are on the street, as ear 
ly as possible after day 1. A doppleganger has 
been unmasked by a 5th level monk (see 
"Compounds" for statistics) who noticed 
something unusuaJ (the monk's immunity to 
BSP prevented the doppleganger from cor 
rectly guessing what it ought to do next). For 
verisimilitude, play out the result of the com 
bat, which takes place in a second-story 
room. The doppleganger will have taken the 
form of the monk during the fight. The one 
who is losing will flee by bursting out the win 
dow, and the other will follow. Player charac 
ters may or may not wish to become involved; 
the Vigilances certainly will, with the usual 
response time. After this incident, security 
checks will be more stringent (see "General 
Events" below). 

Dopple Jeopardy 

This will happen repeatedly once the Discov 
ered Doppleganger scenario has occurred. 
Because of Morgorath's warning that they are 
a danger, doppleganger attacks on player 
characters are possible. The chance is 25% 
each time the characters are exposed to pub 
lic view and might be recognized (by dopple- 
gangers disguised as slaves) or 25% on any 
ward, compound, or city gate identity check 
(by dopplegangers who are disguised as 
Brotherhood members). Descriptions of the 
characters are updated and passed on to the 
dopplegangers by Morgorath each day. Dop 
plegangers will attempt to have the characters 
arrested or will follow them and infiltrate the 
group using standard doppleganger tactics, 
eliminating as many as possible, according to 


circumstances. 

Dopplegangers (29): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4; 
hp 28; 0AT 1; Drag 1-12; THACO 15; AL N; 
SA surprise on a 1-4; SD ESP 90% accurate, 
immune to sleep and charm spells, save as 
10 th level fighter, imitate any form 4 r to 8' tall. 

Attacks of this sort will be repeated until 
either there are no more dopplegangers, or 
(in the DM's opinion) the dopplegangers have 
learned that the player characters are too dan 
gerous. 

Timetable of General Events 

Day 1: Morgorath, dopplegangers, player 
characters arrive. 

Day 2: Rats and mice seen by daylight (first 
sign of plague). First occurrence of a discov 
ered doppleganger. 

Day 3: First human cases of plague. Plague 
cases confined in temporary camp outside 
city. 

Day 4: Plague takes hold. Anti- 
doppleganger measures taken. Vigilances 
ordered to shoot unconfined plague cases and 
suspected dopplegangers on sight. 

Day 5: Curfews imposed. Iftforehouses and 
other areas searched for hidden plague cases 
or dopplegangers. Some factional fighting. 
City gates closed to traffic in either direction, 
other than to internee camp. 

Day 6: Some thievery and looting. 

Day 7: Some isolated slave revolts. 

Consequences 

If the PCs are defeated or destroyed, 
Morgorath or Ills soul-object will eventually 
be eliminated by one of the contending fac 
tions within He sue! Ilshar, in a scenario much 
like the one outlined previously for the player 
characters. In either case the result for the 
Tilvanot Plateau and the Flanaess in general 
will be the same. 

Because Morgorath was testing assassins 
when he was finally destroyed, his death has 
worldwide significance. His destruction at 
such a moment has the side effect (not known 
to himself but foreseen by Istus) that all assas 
sins begin to forget some of their primary 
skills. Because they cannot simply lose skills 
in one area without a compensating gain in 
others (this would cause a tremendous local 
imbalance in the scheme of things) they will 
become thieves with the same number of 
experience points. This in no way alters their 
inclinations, but specific "assassin" skills such 
as poisoning, disguise, special knowledge of 
alignment languages, and the like are simply 
lost. 

The mystic powers of the Grand Master of 
Flowers will allow him to direct some of the 
power released by Morgorath*s and his own 
destruction, giving him powers similar to but 
greater than those of a wish spell. Given his 


aims, the consequences are that a portal to his 
homeland is opened, and that all those trained 
in the disciplines of the Oriental monks 
become aware of its existence. Those who 
pass through will find themselves in the moun 
tains of southwestern T'u Lung; those not of 
Oriental blood may pass relatively unre 
marked there as barbarians from nearby out- 
lands. Those who remain in the Flanaess will 
find their skills fading; they may become 
either fighters or thieves with the same num 
ber of hit points. Of those who enter the world 
of Kara-Tur, they will discover that the full 
range of Oriental-style monk abilities replaces 
those outlined in the P/ayers Handbook . The 
particular type of martial arts ability gained 
will vary according to the school under which 
the character initially trained. 

Other characters than monks might choose 
to pass through the portal, but it is a one-way 
trip. They must return to the Flanaess on 
their own power, if at all. This is an opportuni 
ty for an Oriental campaign, or an Oriental 
interlude in the ongoing campaign, as the DM 
chooses. The lawful good and lawful neutral 
monks who benefited from the opening of the 
portal will be grateful, to the limit of their 
alignment preferences and their ascetic teach 
ings. However, the region to which the monks 
are returning is much as it was when they left: 
there is constant strife, and though they will 
be strong enough to hold their own (as their 
ancestors were not) they will be rather busy. 

The Scarlet Brotherhood will have been 
thrown into disarray by the varying turns of 
events. Depending on the degree of damage, 
He suel Ilshar may be rebuilt eventually, but 
the factions will first settle among themselves 
which is to do the rebuilding, and the winner 
will doubtless have to restore order on the 
Tilvanot Plateau. None will be able to spare 
the energy to prevent the various Oriental 
groups on the plateau from using the portal, 
but it may be that they will attack the player 
characters. Some factions, particularly the 
"moderates" and the High Unity faction, 
might attempt to recruit the player charac 
ters. Others will certainly attempt to destroy 
them. 


119 





NON-PLAYER CHARACTERS 


CYMBELLINE 

Half-elf 9th level thief f 10th level hard 

AC 5 (chain mail plus dexterity bonus); MV 
12 "; HD 10; hp 80; 0AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
(see below); MR 10%; SZ M (6'2"); Str 17 t 
Int 14, Wis 12, Dex 17, Con 16, Cha 16; 
THACO 11 (including strength bonus); AL N; 
SA spells (see below); SD see below. Thief 
skills: PP 85%, OL 72%, FT 60%, MS 75%, 
HS 66%, HN 30%. CW 98%, RL 45% 

Although he is exceptionally tall for his race, 
CymbeUine's appearance is otherwise typical 
for a half-elf: slender build, long silver hair, 
ageless features, and steady blue-gray eyes. 

He always dresses well-some might say 
fastidiously. His chosen garb is a loose-fitting 
mantle (almost a robe) belted at the waist, 
worn over a suit of chain mail. This mantle 
appears at first glance to be white; on closer 
inspection, however, it turns out to be woven 
from slender threads of all the colors of the 
spectrum. Each thread actually gives off light 
of the same color, and those lights all fuse 
together to give an overall impression of 
white. Sometimes the mantle makes Cymbel- 
line seem to shimmer when he moves. Over 
this mantle, Cymbelline occasionally wears a 
traveling cloak of silver-gray. 

When appropriate, he wears a finely 
wrought silver helm with a gold disc inset into 
the brow (375 g.p. total value). Close exami 
nation of the disc (difficult when Cymbelline is 
wearing it) shows that it bears an engraved 
image of a spindle (the symbol of Istus, of 
course)* When not wearing his helmet, Cynv 
belline wears a circlet of fine silver around his 
brow (10 g.p. value)* 

The only other adornment he wears is an 
elaborate necklace* Actually it T s a necklace of 
missiles with seven projectiles-one 9-dice, 
two 7-dice, two 5-dice, and two 3-dice fire 
balls* Close examination of the necklace 
(again, difficult) shows that the symbol of the 
spindle is worked into its central design. 

On his belt Cymbelline wears a highly magi 
cal longs word named Kabal (described below) 
and a dagger of venom. Both weapons show 
amazing craftsmanship and are finely embel 
lished with precious stones and gold chasing. 

Cymbelline's strength gives him a bonus of 
+1 to hit and on damage; his high dexterity 
gives him a +2 reaction/attacking adjustment 
and a - 3 defensive adjustment. 

A 10th level bard, Cymbelline casts spells 
as a 5th level mage. He normally has the fol 
lowing spells memorized: dancing lights, mag 
ic missile (x2), shocking grasp, ESR wizard 
lock , and fireball. Cymbelline's magic resist 
ance is a function of his nature as an aspect of 
Fate* Like his mistress Istus, he is immune to 


all mind-altering magics (charm person, sleep, 
domination, geas, etc*) , and cannot be affect 
ed by any time-related spell. Any divination 
spell cast on an issue concerning Cymbelline 
will have unaccountable gaps ("dead zones") 
where Cymbelline himself and his future 
actions are concerned. 

Cymbelline considers himself an aristocrat* 
In manner he's loquacious- as befits a bard- 
and sometimes rather pedantic. Even though 
he talks easily, he directs conversation away 
from himself, his background, and his abilities. 
If he is ever pressed about his backround and 
has no easy way of changing the subject, he 
will reveal only that he was born in the County 
of Ulek-because (for reasons explained 
below) that's all he really knows about him 
self* He has a sense of humor, and a rather 
aggravating one at that: like an elf, he takes 
almost nothing seriously. This doesn't mean 
he's constantly cracking jokes; rather, he has 
a casual, almost irresponsible approach to 
everything, no matter 1igw t serious the people 
around him might be. In conversation, Cym 
belline has another potentially irritating habit: 
no matter what the topic-person, place, 
event-Cymbelline always claims at least a 
passing acquaintance ("Been there, done 
that")* In anyone else, this could be written 
off as the trait of a pathological liar who wants 
to appear as though he knows everything. But 
in Cymbelline's case, he's telling the truth: if 
the PCs test him or try to trip him up. they'll 
find that he actually does have some familiar 
ity with the subject at hand. Even more irritat 
ingly, Cymbelline w T on't discuss just how he 
knows all these things; instead, if PCs try to 
press the issue, he will lead the conversation 
in a different direction, (His wide-ranging 
knowledge is another facet of his relationship 
with Fate.) 

Cymbelline is skilled at storytelling and 
singing. He usually carries a lute, which he 
plays with great skill and sensitivity. Although 
he knows all the lively, sentimental, and inspi 
rational songs that are part of any bard's rep 
ertoire, when he's playing just for himself 
(which he does in quiet moments) he'll usually 
select something introspective. 

Occasionally Cymbelline will fall silent, act 
ing slightly troubled and confused* if ques 
tioned about this, he'll always shrug it off: 
"Just an artistic fit. When inspiration speaks, 
you must listen, y'know " In fact, Cymbelline 
is a very troubled person, although he won't 
admit that to anyone. He's totally unaware of 
his true nature and of his role as a pawn in 
Istus s game. He knows he's Cymbelline the 
thief/bard, but has virtually no memory of his 
personal background, or of anything specific 
that happened to him more than two days 
before he first met the PCs. (He remembers 
places and people, but not what he did in those 


places or with those people.) He attributes 
this deficiency to a form of amnesia, perhaps 
caused by magic or an injury-which is dis 
turbing enough in itself . (This is why he quick 
ly directs the PCs away from prying into how 
he knows what he does: he has no idea how he 
knows, and won't admit this fact.) 

As if all of this weren't bad enough, Cym 
belline isn't sure he has complete control of 
his own thoughts and actions. Facts spring 
unbidden into his mind, from he knows not 
where. And from time to time, he finds him 
self performing certain acts without knowing 
why-for example, picking the PCs out of a 
crowd and "recruiting" them to infiltrate the 
Sage's Tower (in Adventure 1). Even worse, 
he occasionally has blackouts during which he 
suddenly loses consciousness. When he 
comes around, he's often in another part of 
town (or another part of the w r orld) entirely, 
and he has no knowledge of what he did or 
what has happened to him in the meantime. 

For these reasons, Cymbelline will never 
voluntarily talk about his background or his 
feelings. If a PC somehow develops a strong 
rapport with CymbeOine, the half-elf might 
admit that he's troubled and confused, but no 
more than that. Confused or not* his pride is 
still too strong to confess the full extent of his 
distress* An interesting consequence of all 
this is that detect He wiU always show Cymbel- 
line to be telling the truth* He is telling the 
truth-as he knows it* 

During the two adventures in which Cym 
belline is involved, he'll be helpful to the PCs, 
but only to a point: providing them with infor 
mation and guidance, but never with physical 
aid. 

When the PCs meet Cymbelline for the sec 
ond time, in the city of Elredd (the start of 
Adventure #4), they'll probably ask how f he 
came to be there* His answer is that he has 
been following the spread of the dread disease 
throughout the land, just as they have been, 
and thus meeting them once more shouldn't 
be that surprising. (In fact, Cymbelline suf 
fered another blackout that lasted for as long 
as the PCs were involved with Adventures #2 
and #3. When he came to, he found himself in 
Elredd with no memory of having traveled 
there*) 

Cymbelline the half-elf had a life before he 
was "recruited 1 ' to aid Fate, He was a thief/ 
bard, but of much lower level than he is now, 
and was rather a failure at both trades. He ran 
afoul of a pack of bandits in the Vesve Forest, 
and was left, mortally wounded, by the side of 
the road. Istus selected him as a suitable pawn 
for her game and transported him to her 
plane. There she healed him, prepared him 
for his mission . . . and swept his memory 
clean. She provided him with the sword Kabai 
and sent him forth. When his mission is com- 


120 



plete, his spirit will dwell with Istus on her 
home plane (a reward for a job well done). 

Kabal 

Cymbelline J s longs word is highly magical* a 
+3 flame tongue whose light is blinding 
white. The sword's name, Kabal, is a word 
from an archaic-and mostly forgotten- 
dialect of the Baklunish tongue. The word 
means "fate" but with a special twist: when 
someone "meets his fate" in a contest of 
arms* that is "kabal." Cymbelline will only 
mention the name of the sword under spedi 
circumstances (as described in Adventure 
#4). Kabal is a unique weapon, created by 
Fate herself-sentient, strictly neutral in 
alignment, with an intelligence of 20 and an 
ego of 30. The sword has the following 
powers: read languages, read magic, know 
alignment (once per day), energy drain (three 
times per day), detect magic (once per turn), 
detect invisible (once per turn), charm person 
(three times per day), telepathy (once per 
turn), suggestion (twice per day), and slow 
(twice per day with a -3 penalty to saving 
throw). All these powers are similar to spells 
of the same name, and operate at the 18th 
level of ability. 


Kabal has a special purpose: to aid Tstus in 
her test of the character classes. The sword is 
fully aware of Cymbelline's function in Our 
Lady of Fate's plans (although Cymbelline 
himself is not). 

The weapon communicates with Cymbel 
line telepathically. He will let no one else touch 
the sword. If a mage casts detect magic on the 
weapon, the caster will receive a fleeting 
impression of frightening power; then the 
connection is broken. If anyone else touches 
the hilt of the sword while Cymbelline is alive, 
the weapon will deliver 3-36 points of electri 
cal damage. 

A Sword and Its Man 

The fact of the matter is that it's the sword, 
Kabal, who's in command. It's the sword-not 
Cymbelline-who is a manifestation of the 
entity Morgorath. Istus has transferred 
Morgorath's life force into the weapon, thus 
giving it its high intelligence and ego ratings. 
These ratings are sufficient to give it control 
over Cymbelline when it wishes to exercise 
such. The half-elfs sudden flashes of insight 
and his unaccountable actions are driven by 
the sword. His blackouts also arise from the 
same source. Kabal/Morgorath only informs 


Cymbelline of his true nature and purpose at 
the climax of Adventure 4, Diambeth's Delv 
ing. This is why Cymbelline is suddenly exult 
ant: he knows at last who he is and his place in 
the grand scheme of things. Throughout the 
two adventures in which the sword appears, 
Kabal uses its telepathic powers to monitor 
the PCs and subtly feed back information to 
Cymbelline (who is unaware that this is hap 
pening), This is how Cymbelline manages to 
know something about anything that might be 
brought up in conversation with the PCs. 

If Cymbelline is firmly and repeatedly ques 
tioned about how he came to own the sword, 
he'd eventually say that his mother gave it to 
him. This is true in a way, of course, although 
Cymbelline won't know the real facts of the 
matter. 

If Cymbelline is killed, Istus immediately 
withdraws Morgorath's life force from the 
sword. It immediately loses its ego and intelli 
gence, its spell-like abilities, and its dame 
tongue aspect, reverting to a simple iong- 
sword +3. If Cymbelline lives through 
Adventure #4 and is transported back to 
Istus's plane, the sword goes with him, as 
does all his other equipment. 







ALARIC 

Human 7th level fighter 

AC 2 or -3 (see below); MV 15"; HD 7; hp 
62; 0AT 2; Dmg by weapon; MR 90%; SZ M 
(6W); Str 18/00, Int 14, Wis 12, Dex 18. Con 
18, Cha 15; THACO 11 (including strength 
bonus); AL N; SA see below; SD see below. 

The second incarnation of Morgorath is called 
Alaric, and appears to be a middle-aged 
human with a large, muscular body. His hair is 
short and black, with a thick mustache and 
beard framing a stony face. His icy blue eyes 
reflect nothing, and with these he can cast a 
hawklike gaze which acts as scare (second 
level magic-user spell). .Alaric can use this 
power on one human or de mi-human per 
round. 

Alaric is proficient with spear, dagger, and 
longsword, and doubly specialized with the 
battle axe. He has the non-weapon proficien 
cies of alertness, healing, and swimming. 

After Istus created this version of 
Morgorath, she decided to test him to prove 
that he was worthy of creating tests for the 
fighters and rangers of Oerth. Thus she gave 
him a destination- Rel Mord in the Kingdom 
of Nyrond-and then promptly teleported him 
to a land 800 miles away from it, to the very 
center of the Bone March. 

Lost and alone, Alaric wandered the grass 
lands for weeks, hiding from evil humanoids 
and giants. He fought only when cornered, 
but then he showed himself to be a fearless 
warrior with a whirlwind battle axe. Eventu 
ally he met a large band of human and haif-orc 
bandits. After a brutal test of arms (in which 
three low-level bandits were slain), Alaric 
became an honored member of the group. 

Due to his high charisma and natural leader 
ship ability, Alaric gained a large following 
among the bandits. Even the group's own sor 
cerer preferred him over the current leader. 
Then one night, the bandit lord learned of 
Alaric F s following, and he flew into a violent 
rage. This led to a two-hour-long duel 
between the two men. Exhausted and blood 
stained, Alaric emerged as the victor. 

Yet fstus's servant had not forgotten his 
mission. He studied maps left by the band's 
former leader, learning the location, distance, 
and best route to Rel Mord, Then he planned 
an attack an dw T arven mines in the Rakers. He 
intentionally chose the largest fortified mine in 
the area. Some bandits considered the plan 
insane, but most were overcome by Alaric's 
enthusiasm and promises of wealth. Within 
two weeks the bandits marched westward, 
having lost only a few members who were 
smart enough to abandon their fellows. 

Secretly, Alaric laughed at his followers, for 


they provided excellent protection for him on 
the 200-mile journey. The large caravan trav 
eled unharmed through a land infested with 
evil creatures. 

At the eastern edge of the Rakers, Alaric 
allowed his army one day of rest. Then he 
gathered the troops for an attack on the tar 
get. Many dwarven eyes peered down from 
the battlements as the bandit horsemen 
formed strike teams. Then, finally, Alaric led 
the charge up the hill: but at the last moment, 
he turned his steed away and raced off before 
any startled bandit could take action. Seconds 
later, a cloud of hand axes ripped into the 
attackers. The gates thrust open and hun 
dreds of dwarves rushed out to cut down the 
bandits, who reeled about in confusion or 
sought escape in any direction. 

Alaric rode to the southwest, leaving his 
former companions "to their fate." Their cries 
of rage and pain were quickly forgotten. 

Halfway through the mountains, Alaric met 
trouble in the form of four hill giants. A great 
fight ensued, and afterward four hill giants 
were dead, and Alaric lay dying. He was dis 
covered by a patrol of mountain dwarves who 
knew nothing of the bandit attack three weeks 
before. They took him to their lair-a small 
castle overlooking a failing mine. For five 
weeks he remained with the dwarves as they 
nursed him. Then he said his thanks and con 
tinued on toward the southeast. 

After Alaric left the dwarves, Istus flipped a 
platinum coin. That coin toss made her decide 
to grant good luck to the dwarves. Within days 
they discovered one of the largest mithril 
deposits in eastern Oerik, and today the mine 
is a beehive of activity protected by two gigan 
tic fortresses-the direct result of the mine's 
wealth. 

Alaric rode casually through the Flinty Hills, 
passing many halfling and gnome villages as he 
went. In these places he gained a small repu 
tation for tossing bags containing 10 g.p. to 
some of the halflmgs and gnomes he met. His 
choices were random, and many little people 
cursed him for ignoring their pleas for gold. 
The richer ones, of course, gave him their 
blessings. 

Near Wbmtham he found the end of the 
Dun tide River. He rode southward along its 
shore. During this time, he came upon a 
father and his 8-year-old son clinging to an 
overturned boat. Both cried out for his help. 
Alaric considered his options, then tossed a 
gold coin. The decision having been made, he 
swam out to the boat, grasped the boy, and 
took him back to shore. The father, however, 
drowned as the vessel went under. Alaric 
shrugged: such is fate. . . . 

In a week Alaric joined a group of hillmen 
transporting lumber by barge to Rel Mord. 
The voyage passed without incident. At last 


istus's servant entered the city with many 
ideas and schemes to put into action. 

During his stay in Rel Mord, Alaric is 
equipped with scale mail armor (thus AC 2), a 
battle axe +2, a longsword, and a dagger. He 
wears plain brown trousers, leather boots, 
and a brown long-sleeved shirt. He has no 
other magical items because he does not 
expect to need them against the low-level 
fighters whom he intends to test. 

When the player characters prepared to 
head toward Leukish in the Duchy of Umst, 
Istus re-formed Morgorath as Alaric the fight 
er once again. She equipped him as before, 
but also gave him plate mail +2 (thus AC - 
3 ), a ring of fire resistance, and a ring of spell 
turning (with 100% chance to turn spells 
when worn by Alaric). Having thus prepared 
him, she ordered him to begin the Test of the 
Rangers in Leukish. Then she rolled a 9-sided 
die and so decided where to place him on 
Oerik. 

Alaric materialized in the Cairn Hills, six 
miles south of Nyr Dyv. He immediately met a 
patrol of men from the City of Grey hawk. 
Intending to do no harm, Alaric answered 
their questions and endured their looks of sus 
picion. At last they left him, but not before 
giving him directions to Nyr Dyv and then to 
Leukish, 

On his way to the lake, Alaric was 
ambushed by a high-level wizard and a small 
band of fighters. At first the wizard cast vari 
ous spells to capture Alaric, but these had no 
effect. Then the magic-user sent a blinding 
lightning bolt at the stranger, but the bolt 
flashed back at the wizard and killed him 
instantly. The horrified fighters fled from 
Alaric, who had barely moved during the 
whole encounter. 

An hour later he arrived at the lake. Nearby, 
a large merchant ship was anchored several 
yards offshore. Alaric saw a handful of chained 
people on the deck, plus a score of ragged- 
looking warriors similar to those he had just 
met. Planning on the quickest way to Leukish, 
he sat down and waited for nightfall. 

As the sun set, Alaric swam to the ship and 
climbed up its anchor chain to the bow. He 
killed a guard there, but others saw him and 
shouted for help. Bracing his feet and lifting 
his axe, Alaric prepared for a charge by over 
twenty swordsmen. A long, bloody fight 
occurred that night, but in the end Alaric 
stood alone on that red-stained vessel. 

Forcing up his last bit of strength, Alaric 
took time to explore the rest of the ship. He 
found it empty except for eight sailors chained 
in the cargo hold. From them he learned that 
the ship had been hijacked by a magic-user 
and his followers, who had forced the crew to 
sail the ship while they went on coastal raids. 

Alaric informed them that he had slain the 


122 






magic-user and most of the pirates. In return, 
he asked only that the sailors take him to 
Leukish. They gladly agreed. 

A few days after they set sail, the merchant 
ship was stopped by a patrol warship from 
Admundfort. The soldiers boarded the mer 
chant vessel and inspected it, finding decks 
covered with blood and treasure chests full of 
gold and jewelry. The sailors explained that 
they had been the captives of pirates* whom 
they had killed a few nights before. The 
knightly captain decided to let the sailors and 
Alaric free, but that the valuables had to be 
confiscated "in the name of the Earl of 
Walworth" Though the sailors protested, 
Alaric shrugged and let them take it. 

Istus gave this version of Morgorath the 
heart and soul of a true warrior, Alaric is 
strong-willed and brave, and never needs to 
check morale. He prefers hand-to-hand com 
bat before missile combat, and this liking is 
reflected in his only magical weapon: a heavy 
two- handed axe, with crescent blades on two 
sides and a sharp spearhead pointing up from 
between the two blades. 

Alaric respects only those who are willing to 
risk themselves in melee combat. He has con 
tempt for "weaklings" who use only magic to 
win their fights. He treats others with toler 
ance, and feels merciful toward those who 
cannot physically defend themselves- 


children, common women, the elderly, etc. 
However, the best way to gain his favor is the 
test of arms. 

In battle, Alaric detests cowardice. He 
automatically slays those who willingly sur 
render, and grants mercy only to those who 
fight to the end, but are captured anyway. 
This spiritual strength is also his weakness, 
for his pride can be seen as arrogance. Many 
warriors have been insulted by his cold com 
ments, and have had to be silenced by his 
frightening gaze or, more rarely, his whirling 
battle axe. 

Alaric does not have the normal racial pref 
erences akin to humans, since he is Istus's 
creation and thus not a real human. He prefers 
human company only because humans are 
more likely to accept him than other races. 
His overall view toward humans and most 
demi-humans is tolerance, though he feels 
some goodwill toward dwarves because of 
their treatment of him in the Rakers. 

Despite his dose ties to the Lady of Fate, 
he almost never mentions her by name, and 
likes to keep his true origin secret. He is wary 
of clerics, who represent deities who may or 
may not be opposed to Istus. Most strikingly, 
Alaric distrusts clerics of Istus, for he is well 
aware of their uncaring attitude and often ran 
dom (though not chaotic) behavior. 

Istus gave Alaric many powers to protect 
him against magical attacks, as well as to force 


his opponents to face him in melee combat. 
Most important is his high magic resistance. 
His powers also allow him to act as if he is 
wearing a ring of free action. 

Furthermore, Alaric can automatically 
detect invisible and defect illusion. He can 
also cast the following spells at will, one per 
round: protection from normal missiles (3 
times/day), dispel magic, dispel illusion, 
remove curse (1 dme/day), and anti-magic 
shelf (3 times/day). 

A detect magic spell cast on Alaric will 
reveal a faint aura around him, though the 
spell caster may suspect that it comes from a 
magic item and not the man himself. Dispel 
magic , of course, does him no harm. 

Aside from his combat abilities, Alaric f s 
best skill is that of leadership. He can be a firm 
but fair master, and these qualities, along with 
his high class level and weapon specialization, 
make liim a good social and technical leader. 
This nonmagical ability acts similarly to 
friends (first level magic-user spell), though 
characters who fail to be impressed will not 
necessarily dislike him, and those who are 
impressed will wish to be commanded (rather 
than befriended) by Alaric. This spell-like abil 
ity is usable once per day, and those affected 
can be treated as followers (the effect does 
not have a specific duration, but lasts as long 
as Alaric wishes). 


123 







MORGORATH'S BEASTMAN 
AVATAR 

AC 3; MV 12" (or see below); HD 14; lip 65; 
#AT 1 (or see below); Dmg by weapon or oth 
er physical attack +2; THACO 7 (including 
strength bonus); MR 40%; SZ M; Str 18, Int 
17, Wis 13, Dex 18, Con 17, Cha 17. SA see 
below; SD see below, 

Morgorath in his beastman form has several 
different shapes, but his "true" appearance is 
that of a tall, powerfully built humanoid, with 
broad but humanlike features. He would not 
by any means be mistaken for anything 
human P however, for he is entirely covered in 
curly gray tur, and has sharp pointed teeth, 
clawed hands, and catlike eyes. In addition to 
this form, he can at will take on the shape and 
abilities of a number of other creatures, in the 
same manner as a druid's shapechanging abili 
ty, Morgorath can change form any number of 
times per day; up to three times per day, he 
regains 10% to 60% of lost hit points when he 
changes form, just as a druid does. The possi 
ble forms are those of a h aidin g, a human, a 
serpent, an otter, a bear, an owl, a tiger, a rav 
en, and a boar In each form Morgorath may 
use the physical attacks of his shape, but he 
retains an unnatural strength which gives a 
bonus of +1 "to hit" and +2 on damage in 
any strike or bite. 

His serpent form is a venomous snake, each 
bite injecting a toxin that causes paralysis in 1 
round and death within three days. His beast 
man (true) form has a pair of claw attacks for a 
base 1-2 points of damage each. The one iden 
tifying feature of Morgorath in all forms is a 
streak of lighter color about the head or in the 
hair, and bright green eyes that gIow T with a 
reddish tint in dim light. He also retains a dis 
tinctive odor which may be identified by a dog 
or cat or any other nonhuman creature with a 
similarly keen sense of smell* Animals scent 
ing Morgorath in this incarnation will act in 
some unusual way, depending on the reaction 
roll: a positive reaction roll means that they 
try to follow him; a neutral reaction roll means 
that they show interest, and a negative reac 
tion roU means that they shy away or even 
attack. Note that Morgorath's charisma 
affects animals as much as it does others* 

In any of his five humanoid forms, 
Morgorath can make use of his assassin-like 
skills, most particularly those of disguise. He 
may appear to be any sort of human, demi- 
human or goblinoid, but he has these estab 
lished these as his favorite personae; 

1 * A fat human male, well dressed and with 
the manner of a wealthy merchant. His name 
is Androch Larrojid* He is a jolly and over 
bearing fellow* with a burly build, swarthy 


skin, a curly black beard, hair in ringlets, and a 
high-pitched laugh. His accent is Jumrese, 
and his clothes are in the bright Jumrese col 
ors* He has established an identity as a trader 
in from the Lortmil region of Ulek County who 
trades down the Kewl with a cargo of goods 
from the upper Kewi (jewels, certain herbs, 
bronze wood, and fine marble) and returns 
upriver with goods manufactured downriver 
(fine cloth, furniture, mead, and jewelry). 
Previously unknown in Jumre, he has given 
out that he has only recently extended his 
route so far south. He maintains a small trad 
ing boat, and a man hired in Tringle to guard 
his goods and help pilot the craft. 

2 . A comely halfling maiden, cheerful and 
rather sharp-tongued, of Tallfellow stock, 
usually appearing as a waitress or a young 
housewife. Her name, if she must give one, is 
Mara Hardiggin, 

3. A slender and intense young man with 
red hair, freckles, and a sharp chin, simply 
dressed, with an abrupt and preoccupied man 
ner and the accent of Port Momnurg. He 
styles himself Sam Weaverson* 

4. A 7th level priest of Obad-hai, red-haired 
and bearded, of late middle age, heavily 
tanned, and with a coppery undertone to his 
skin. He wears a simple green robe and car 
ries a shorts word and staff. He is called Rran- 
nach, and claims to be from the eastern 
regions of the County of Ulek, near the Lort 
mil Mountains. (In this form, Morgorath actu 
ally can cast cleric spells, which he receives 
from Istus in order to maintain the ruse that 
he really is a cleric.) 

5. Tira Imharvon, a noblewoman of the 
Tiivanot Plateau, high-ranking in Hesuel 
Ilshar, extremely arrogant and intolerant* She 
is slender, tall and of extraordinarily pale com 
plexion, with dark blue eyes and pale brown 
hair. She is an administrator and instructor in 
one of the assassin temples according to her 
credentials, which will withstand the closest 
scrutiny because there really once was such a 
person. Morgorath caught her alone on a 
secret mission to Port Monmurg, killed her, 
and replaced her. 

In all of his disguises, Morgorath s shock of 
lighter-colored hair shows through, but it is 
often concealed by a hat, hood, or headband. 

Morgorath *s other assassin-like abilities are 
helpful to him, sometimes deadly to adversar 
ies. He has all the skills of a 9th level thief, and 
his keen ears give him a +15% bonus to hear 
noise. He can backs tab for triple damage (not 
quadruple, as for an actual 9th level thief). He 
has the ability to concoct any type of poison, 
so he always carries any type he might want 
or need. 

There are two other special abilities that 
make Morgorath particularly dangerous. One 
is that he is, by design, a carrier of the plague 


that the player characters are trying to learn 
about or cure. The disease is contagious only 
if Morgorath-or Istus-wills it to be, and 
only to the degree determined appropriate. 
This w T hy some cities along his route (in all of 
his various forms) are hit very hard, while oth 
ers are only marginally affected by the dis 
ease: tills is, after all, another aspect of Fate. 

Morgorath's other special ability, which is 
more dangerous than it sounds, is his skill at 
throwing his voice and imitating sounds, A 
favorite trick is to hide in shadows and make it 
appear that some odd noise is coming from 
some area or item which will cause the victim 
to turn away from the hidden Morgorath, This 
ability is retained in all of Morgorath's forms. 
In effect it is equal to the first level magic-user 
spell ventriloquism. 

Morgorath speaks common. Ancient Sul- 
oise, hobgoblin, halfiing, elvish, dwarvish, 
gnomish, the Cold Tongue, Keolandish, Len- 
dorian, thieves cant, the druidic cant, and all 
the alignment languages, in addition to the dia 
lect spoken in western T'u Lung in the land of 
Kara-Tur. He is an accomplished liar in all of 
these. He can detect clean water, move freely 
through natural undergrowth, and identify 
plant and animal types as a druid, and he can 
identify and use any weapon which a druid or 
assassin could use as well as weapons peculiar 
to ninja in Oriental settings. 

Morgorath's equipment in this avatar varies 
according to what or whom he is impersonat 
ing. He will generally find a safe spot, or pref 
erably several safe spots, in w T hich to cache 
some of his more useful possessions if they 
are inappropriate to his aims at the time. 
Among the magical items available to him are 
a short sword +2< a dagger of venom +2, 
bracers of defense (AC 4), two potions of 
speed , a cloak of elvenkind. a crossbow of 
accuracy +3, twelve sling buffets + 2 , an 
oversmoking bottle, a folding boat, an amulet 
of proof against detection and location f and a 
bag of tricks (type 68). He will supplement 
these with any equipment acquired from his 
victims. He can alter the appearance of weap 
ons and equipment to make them seem appro 
priate to one of his station, according to the 
social class he is imitating. His nonmagical 
equipment includes a grapnel, rope, clothes 
for his most often-used personae (two 
changes each), two flasks of poison (one type 
C insinuative and one type A ingestive), and 
1,500 gp in local funds, plus four rough jewels 
of each base value (see Dungeon Masters 
Guide, page 25). 

The druid spells that Morgorath typically 
memorizes in this avatar are animal friend 
ship, detect magic, entangle, faerie fire, and 
speak with animals; charm person or mam 
mal, heat metal r obscurement, and flame 
blade; protection from fire, tree, and pyro- 


124 





r 



technics; and animal summoning I (5 first level 
spells, 4 second level, 3 third level, and 1 
fourth level spell) * These may be varied 
according to circumstances* 

Morgorath is of unpredictable tempera 
ment, has an odd sense of humor, and is apt to 
perpetrate practical jokes at the slightest 
excuse. He delights in mystifying opponents, 
and enjoys surprising them, particularly with 
something unpleasant. He is absolutely amor 
al* While he does not hesitate to kill those who 
oppose his designs, neither will he do so if it 
can reasonably be avoided. He is neither 
human nor demi-human* and has a mild dislike 
for both; his affinities are toward animals and 
toward monsters of neutral alignment. How 
ever, he will not hesitate to use creatures of 
these types in his plots* He is very flexible, 
and takes on new roles and adapts to new situ 
ations very rapidly* His ''jokes" may be lethal, 
such as the poisoned traps he sometimes sets 
in Ids lair. 

While he is not notably cruel, Morgorath 
has no pity whatsoever. He is determined to 
accomplish his objectives and will let nothing 
stand in his way, although one of his personae 
may make a convincing show of sympathy if it 
seems appropriate. While he has a strong 
sense of self-preservation, his mission comes 
first, above all other considerations. He is 
aware that his existence will be relatively 


short in his present incarnation, and while he 
will avoid premature dissolution he does not 
particularly seek to prolong his stay past its 
useful stage. He is only vaguely aware of 
Istus's purposes, but will volunteer if identi 
fied and questioned that he is "sent by the 
gods" to test first druids and then assassins* 
The choice of locations was entirely his own 
(or so he thinks): they are logical places, 
Jumre (Adventure #3) is under strong druidic 
influence and the Scarlet Brotherhood 
(Adventure #10) is the greatest single organi 
zation that supports assassins in the Flanaess, 

He believes his missions are to disrupt the 
normal life of the two cities to which he has 
been sent unless those "chosen" for the task 
can prevent him. If they seem to be failing in 
their "assigned" task he will turn his at ten- 
tions to them rather than to the cities he had 
intended to harass* Morgorath's avatar will 
remember any individuals encountered in his 
other forms, at least as regards their names, 
their abilities, and their personalities, rather 
as if he had been told them by someone else. 
He has only a vague memory of his other 
forms and their characteristics. 

One weakness is Morgorath's vanity; if 
faced with danger, he retreats only after mak 
ing a good show. When possible, he will raise 
difficulties for all concerned before making his 
escape. Despite his otherwise excellent judg 
ment, Morgorath's beastman avatar is also 


impulsive, a trait that may be turned against 
him. Those who identify Morgorath in this 
form and attempt to reason with him, or ques 
tion his motivations too deeply, will merely 
goad him into a sudden attack, followed by 
rapid flight; he does not care to give the mat 
ter much thought. The beastman Morgorath 
also fears fires which are not of his own kin 
dling, and will generally retreat from such 
unless duty demands otherwise. One final 
note, which should be mentioned to player 
characters every time they might have an 
opportunity to witness it; in this avatar 
Morgorath always takes a half-step back 
before launching an attack. 

In his beastman avatar, Morgorath is always 
aware of the distance and direction of the 
golden casket containing his power of reincar 
nation. He will also know whenever anyone 
touches it, and can at will teleport without 
error to its location if someone does. He can 
transport the casket without harm if it is 
dosed. If it is open, the bluish radiance that 
fills the air within 10 feet is deadly to him, and 
will destroy both him and the casket in a burst 
of heat and light. This force causes blindness 
for 1-3 turns and 2-16 points of damage to any 
one within 60 feet who fails a saving throw vs. 
wands. Those who make their saving throws 
take 1-8 points of damage and are blinded for 
1-3 rounds. 


125 







ARLINA 

12 th level cleric 

AC 10(4 with ring of protection ; MV 12"; HD 
12; hp 74; 0AT 1; Dmg by weapon; SZ M 
(5'10">; Str 10, Int 16, Wis 18, Dex 10, Con 
14, Cha 18; THACO 14, AL N; 5A see below; 
SD see below, 

Al first glance, Arlina appears to be a young 
woman in her late 20s, perhaps 30 at the 
most. But on closer inspection-or particular 
ly on looking into her green eyes-she seems 
to exude a sense of wisdom that belies her 
youthful appearance. Sometimes people who 
meet her gaze directly have the disturbing 
sensation that they're catching a glimpse of a 
soul that's lived forever. When she speaks, 
too, her voice is steady and measured: never 
surprised, never perturbed, never agitated. 

All this aside, there's no doubt that Arlina is 
beautiful: tall and slender, with lightly tanned 
skin and reddish-gold hair that falls in a thick 
cascade to her waist (a great contrast to the 
drab raiments she usually wears). Her habit 
ual clothing is dark gray overlaid with a very 
subtle weblike pattern in lighter gray. It's 
relieved only by a flash of gold at her throat: 
the golden spindle symbol of her deity, Istus, 
hanging on a gold chain (value 250 g.p.). Her 
only jewelry apart from the symbol is a simple 
gold ring worn on her right hand (it is, in fact, a 
ring of protection 4-6, +1 on saving throws). 
Sometimes she wears a black traveling cloak; 
when she does, she typically keeps the hood 
pulled up to cover her shining hair. 

Arlina travels lightly armed, her only weap 
on being a simple walking staff of ash shod 
with black iron. As with many things, appear 
ances are deceiving: the walking staff is actu 
ally a staff of the serpent (python), and Arlina 
is proficient in its use. She typically carries no 
other equipment (apart from spell compo 
nents), and carries no money. 

Despite her youth, Arlina is a high priestess 
in the service of the goddess Istus, and is very 
competent in this position. She's intelligent, 
serious of demeanor, and definitely not some 
one to take liberties with. Unlike many fol 
lowers of Istus, she's not unfeeling or cynical: 
she's one of the true believers who's grateful 
to Fate for the way she's been treated. Her 
behavior shows this true, unquestioning 
belief: she trusts to Fate for all decisions, 
doing the first thing that comes into her head, 
sometimes even going so far as to toss a coin 
or cast a die to make choices, (Since she's 
actually the entity Morgorath, all of these 
"random" derisions turn out in the way that 
best serves the purposes of Istus.) 

As a 12th level cleric with 18 wisdom, Arlina 
has the use of a great number of spells: 8 first 
level, 7 second, 6 third, 4 fourth, 2 fifth, and 2 


sixth level, phis one use per day of augury and 
one use of strand of binding (the extraordinary 
spells bestowed upon clerics of Istus). Because 
Arlina is actually the entity Morgorath and thus a 
supernatural servant of Istus, she gains access 
to the spells differently from other clerics. Rath 
er than having to select her spells in advance and 
petition her goddess for them, Arlina may cast 
any spell of the appropriate level, choosing the 
spell she will cast at the moment of casting (in 
other words, she lias free choice from the entire 
cleric spell list for a character of her level and 
wisdom). This gives her considerably more 
freedom of action, and thus more power. She 
can get a full complement of new (or replen 
ished) spells by spending eight hours in sleep 
and meditation. 

As a further consequence of Arlina's super 
natural nature, all spells that she casts auto 
matically have the maximum effect possible 
(thus Arlina's cure light wounds will always 
heal 8 points of damage, and her spiritual ham 
mer will always hit for maximum damage). 
This doesn't affect nonmagical combat abili 
ties, and it doesn't affect a target's saving 
throw for spells that grant one. 

Concerning augury and similar spells, Arlina 
might be requested to perform some type of 
divination by the PCs. If refusing to do so 
would be out of character, she'll cast the spell 
. , , but this doesn't mean she'll necessarily 
pass on to them everything she learns. Arlina 
will never divulge anything that would prove 
detrimental to the purposes of her mistress. 

Arlina is immune to any spells or powers that 
affect the mind (sleep, charm, ESP, etc.) and 
can't be affected by any time-related spell. She 
can't be located or observed using any scrying 
devices; if an attempt is made, the device will 
mysteriously fail. Any divination spell cast on 
an issue concerning Arlina-except for ones 
that she casts herself-will have unaccountable 
gaps ("dead zones") where Arlina herself and 
her future actions are concerned. No informa 
tion about Arlina can be garnered through com 
mune* contact other plane * or similar magics; 
any questions asked concerning Arlina will not 
be answered, 

Arlina is a loner. Even when other followers 
of Istus are in the vicinity, she prefers her own 
company. Other followers of Istus recognize 
her vestments and treat her with due respect* 
but they don't recognize her personally. 

She has no obvious vices, and never partakes 
of alcohol. Although she is always polite, she can 
"turn on the freeze" enough to dissuade even 
the most ardent pursuer from taking liberties. 

The Hand of Fate 

Arlina is an entity manufactured by Istus, so 
anything Arlina will say about herself w r as 
actually fabricated by the Lady of Fate and 
planted in Arlina's mind. Arlina has no knowl 


edge, conscious or subconscious, of her true 
nature. What she know T s is this: 

She was bom in the Free City of Greyhawk in a 
community that reveres Istus. Arlina's mother 
had a vision that her unborn daughter would one 
day serve the goddess at the highest level, and so 
from birth Arlina was destined for the priesthood. 
Throughout her youth and her clerical training, 
everything seemed to fall into place for Arlina 
without her making any efforts; this, of course, 
was enough to persuade everyone around her 
that the Mistress of Fate herself was looking out 
for Arlina. She advanced in skill and authority' 
quickly, and became a high priestess at the 
unprecedented age of 26. Since her ordination as 
a high priestess three years ago, she's been trav 
eling the work! in service to her goddess. 

From a very early age , she remembers hav 
ing prophetic insights and vivid dreams that 
could be termed visions. She believes implicit 
ly that these have been vouchsafed to her 
directly by her goddess. If asked specifically 
about her visions, she'll say that they were 
private communications from her deity. She 
will admit that they make her think she has a 
significant role to play in the purposes of 
Istus, however. (From another's lips, this 
could sound arrogant and self-aggrandizing; 
from Arlina, however, it sounds like a simple 
statement of the truth.) 

Her motivation is complete dedication to the 
will of her superiors in the church (who sent 
her to Winters hi ven in Adventure 05, "Service 
for the Dead") and to Istus directly (who 
vouchsafed her the vision directing her to 
Chendl in Adventure 08, "At the King's Right 
Hand"). 

Arlina had no existence before the time she 
first meets the PCs in Wintershiven, and 
between their departure from the Theocracy 
of the Pale and their arrival in Chendl. If Arlina 
is killed, her body instantly disappears along 
with all her possessions. 

There is no direct physical evidence of 
Arlina's true nature. Only one clue-and a 
slight one at that-might hint at her other 
worldly nature: she gives off a faint aura of 
magic, easily perceivable by detect magic 
(this might be attributed to her staff, her holy 
symbol, or her garments, however). 

As a servant of Istus, Arlina has certain spe 
cial powers. She shares some of Istus's extra- 
dimensional awareness, giving her limited 
precognition-in essence, a view several min 
utes into the future. This makes it impossible 
to surprise Arlina, and very difficult to trick or 
manipulate her in any way. (From a game per 
spective: if you, as DM, know what a player is 
about to do, then so does Arlina.) 

If Ariina witnesses someone doing a deed that 
greatly advances the purposes of the goddess, 
she might at her option give them a magical gift. 
This is a tiny version of her golden spindle that 


126 







has the powers of a luckstone; the power of the 
spindle lasts for eight days. She will certainly 
give one of these to a PC cleric who performs 
the task required in the adventure "Service for 
the Dead" Ariina doesn't carry any of these 
spindles on her person, but can call them up 
(through Istus) by simply putting her hand into a 
pocket of her robe and withdrawing one when 
ever she wants. Any thief trying to rob her, how 
ever, will find her pockets empty.) 

A Matter of Alignment 
Istus and Ariina are thoroughly neutral in align 
ment. Thus, it might seem surprising that the 
tasks Ariina will use to test the PCs could be 
considered good in nature (releasing the impris 
oned soul of a dead cleric, and slaying a dragon 
who is attempting to influence a lawful good 
king). The goddess's-and hence Ariina's- 
motivations are more complex than such a sim 
plistic judgment would imply, however. 

Many believe that Istus is an uncaring deity, 
the goddess of an indifferent fate. This isn't 
quite true: sometimes she shows a surprising 
sensitivity, particularly toward those who 
revere her. The Test of the Clerics serves two 
functions. One is, of course, the test itself; 
the second is to give succor to a faithful ser 
vant and end his suffering. This is hardly the 
action of an uncaring goddess. 

As for the second issue, the dragon provides a 
perfect Test of the Paladins. Obviously, a test 
appropriate for that class must focus on an 
overtly good deed. But there's even more to it 
than that. Neutrality isn't always indifference or 
lack of involvement: sometimes it's positive 
action to establish-or shore up-the balance. 
Under a good king, the land of Furyondy repre 
sents a strong bulwark against the encroach 
ment of lawlessness and woe. Thus it acts as a 
counterbalance against such lands as the Homed 
Society, luz and others. If it, too, were to turn to 
evil (as the dragon influencing the king might 
wish), the balance must surely suffer. 

NARLOND THE WHITE 

ALCHEMIST and 

THE PROPHET OF BOCCOB 

18 th level magic-user 

AC 2 (bracers); MV 12"; HD 18; hp45 (or 90; 
see below); #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type (4-7 
using dagger +3 as Narlond, or with staff of 
striking as the Prophet); MR 75%; Str 13, Int 
19, Wis 14, Dex 14, Con 12, Cha 12; THACO 
10 as either character; AL N; SA spells (see 
below); SD hit point increase to 90 when in 
need (aid from Istus), travels ethereally, 
improved invisibility up to three times daily. 

Morgorath in the dual role of Narlond the 
White Alchemist and the Prophet of Boccob is 


the all-in-one servant. In Adventures #7 and 
#9 he is a catalyst by showing the characters a 
way to resolve their dilemma. In all cases 
where he deals with the party, he should be 
played intelligently. He always maneuvers the 
characters toward the fulfillment of his Lady's 
purpose and has utter disregard for their own 
wants and desires ... to a point. He does 
want them to survive, for they are being test 
ed; but he will lie, cheat, and otherwise posi 
tion the party in such a way so that whatever 
turn they take, it seems to be one predestined 
to happen-Fated, so to speak. 

Some specifics on role-playing Morgorath 
as Narlond and the Prophet are included in the 
separate adventures. The DM should read 
these introductions carefully, for it is in these 
that the actual flavors of the impersonated 
characters are exposed. 

As a controlled entity of Istus, Morgorath 
has those strengths and weaknesses that are 
typically inherent to her. His single-minded 
ways could be a weakness if these grew to 
obsessive degrees. However, though Mor 
gorath appears single-minded at times (as 
expressed through those he impersonates), 
this is far from the actual truth of the matter. 

Narlond is strong in his coming forward and 
informing the characters about Xaene, only to 
regret his inability to participate fully. This is due 
to the instigations of Istus: it is the party's test, 
not Nartond's. But on the whole, Morgorath will 
help the party when their need is great. 

As for the Prophet, he assumes that the 
party can readily defeat Helthrax because the 
situation is totally linked to subterfuge and 
ego. Sure, Helthrax has taken some minor 
precautions, but Morgorath knows that these 
are not enough to stop a concerted and intelli 
gent raid by the adventurers. Thus he rea 
sons that scant information and perhaps slight 
help from him as the Prophet will suffice to 
see the party through this time around. 

Morgorath as Narlond and the Prophet pre 
fers to use his innate ESP powers to ascertain 
the weaknesses or strengths of those oppos 
ing or cooperating with him. Once he has 
ascertained the former's position, he informs 
the latter of a course, or courses, to be taken, 
and of what objectives are at stake . Naturally 
he attempts to manipulate the situation so that 
opposing sides in a conflict are his pawns, as 
inferred above. He can automatically see a 
person's fate (by his closeness to Istus), and 
this will distress him, but, of course, nothing 
can be done about that! 

Narlond and the Prophet can have in memory 
any magic-user spells, up to the limits for a caster 
of 18th level and 19 intelligence. The spefls typi 
cally carried are affect normal Gres, charm per 
son, enlarge, magic missile, protection tom evil; 
darkness 15' radius, levitate, Meifs arid arrow , 
vocalize, web; dispel magic, fireball , hold person. 


Meifs minute meteor, phantasmal force; dimen 
sion door, fear, fire charm, polymorph other, wall 
of fire; Bjgby's interposing hand, conjure elemen 
tal, hold monster, teleport, wall of iron; Bigbys 
forceful hand, globe of invulnerability, project 
image; limited wish r reverse gravity, statue; 
Bigby 's clenched fist, maze; and power word kill . 

Morgorath as Narlond has complete run of 
the real Narlond's tower. The real Narlond 
was called away on some errand of mercy to 
the south. Although Istus is (was) aware of 
this emergency in the past (and for this rea 
son, Narlond's character fit into her scheme 
perfectly) she did not cause it; but she did take 
advantage of the situation and positioned 
Morgorath as Narlond to receive the party. 

Narlond was once a court alchemist and 
serviced kings and prelates until the sulfur ran 
dry. He then tired of court service and went 
into business on his own, discovering all sorts 
of new potions and elixirs. His estate is worth 
upwards of 500,000 g.p. His formulas are val 
ued at double that amount by some Greyhawk 
wizards. His laboratory contains two of each 
known potion, elixir, oil and powder. 

The Prophet has no name. He is a "joke" 
character, created by Istus and blessed by 
Boccob, who cooperated to this degree 
because the matter involved magic-users. 
The Prophet has nothing of value or lasting 
interest except for items and characteristics 
common to both NPCs-and except for a very 
special type of staff of striking. 

The weapon is known as the Staff of the 
Fates. It can be used as one of striking, but it 
also has spell-like powers that Morgorath can 
call forth from it. He will do this quite grudgingly, 
however, for every time he uses the staff in this 
fashion, his intelligence score suffers a tempo 
rary decrease. The device goes inert (and no 
point loss occurs) if the user tries to cal upon a 
power that would reduce his intelligence to less 
than 9. Lost intelligence points are regained at 
the rate of one per day, by resting or sleeping for 
at least four hours. Fractional lost points are dis 
regarded for purposes of intelligence-related 
abilities; for instance, a character with a score of 
15 V 2 makes Intelligence Checks as if his score 
was 16. The following powers are employable 
from the staff once per day: 

Costing 2 pts.: time stop, tempos fugit, magic 
mirror (unlimited range and duration), contact 
higher plane (no chance of failure or insanity). 

Costing IV 2 pts.: reincarnation, sending, 
truename, geas. 

Costing 1 pt.: divination, true seeing, find 
the path, word of recall. 

Costing V 2 pt.: all cantrips and all first level 
cleric spells. 

For comparison purposes (not in the expecta 
tion that any character could ever obtain or sell 
it), the x.p. value of the Staff of the Fates is 
25,000, and it has a g.p, sale value of 90,000. 













¦¦ 

>1] i 






1 


^ auvetirut^s ^<s 



Fantasy World Adventure 


Fate of istus 


This collection of linked adventures takes 
characters from the Bandit Kingdoms to 
Furyondy to the Wild Coast, with stops In 
some of Creyhawks most exciting locales. But 
don't be fooled: This is more than Just a travel 
ogue. 

A dread plague has struck the world of 
Creyhawk, and the adventurers must travel 
the length and breadth of the land seeking an 
explanation and a cure. This is no ordinary 
plague, but one that seems almost like a 
punishment-or a test-meted out by some 
greater power. 

Should die characters fail to uncover the 
secret of this quest, the world of Creyhawk 
will be forever changed. 

This epic campaign provides hitherto 
unknown details about the cities of Greyhawk 
and tests each major character class in the 
AD&D'*' game. 


*1989 TSR, Inc. Ai! ragtits Reserved. Printed In we USA 


TSR. Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
VW 53147 USA 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge cbi 3LB 
united Kingdom 


ISBN 008038-712*2 


o 1 46363 09253 




9253)00(1401 


ADVANCE) DUNGBDftE & DRACOfvB, AD80, CKEVHWK, Pf^COJCIB OF WDUf? MAOfATlGftL and the T58 
logo ane trademarks cwned by TSR, Ire 




















































