Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09317 WGS 1 Five Shall Be One ( Level 7 10)"
See other formats
WGS1 

ADVENTURE 


Official Game Adventure 


Five Shall Be One 


szL&oFanimiiE 


1 1't 

y\1 

¦ 


i if 

DVStl 

ITURBS'xT !! \N 




















Official Game Adventure 


Five Shall Be One 


Design: Carl Sargent 
Editing: Caroline Spec tor 
Cover Art: Jeff Starlind 
Interior Art: Ken Frank 
Cartography: Diesel 
Typography: Tracey Zamagne 
Graphic Design: Dee Barnett 


Copyright £ '199l TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U S.A. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, ADStD, WORLD OF CREYHAWK. and GREYHAWK 
arc registered trademarks owned by TEFL Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc, 

Distributed In the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc,, and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada. Lid, 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed In the United Kingdom by 
TSR, Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of 
the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, 
Inc. 


TSR, Inc. 
ROB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl53147 
U.S.A. 


TSR, Ltd* 

120 Church End, 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


9317XXX1501 
ISBN 1-59076*070*2 





















Five Shall Be One 

Table of Contents 


Introduction.*.+. , . 3 

Chapter 1: Into the Hills ...*..* * " * * * • * 6 

Random Encounter Ihbles JO 

Chapter 2: White Ranged Bay . ..17 

Random Encounter Ihbles ......... t ...17 

Chapter 3: Drawn to the Darkness T ....... ... 27 

Random Encounter Thbles . . . ... ... . . .... - 28 

Pull-Out Section ,...29-36 

Handouts . . .......... ... 29 

Pregenerated Player Characters. 31 

Non-Player Characters .. 35 

Mulsever's Bandit Gang ..>.. 35 

The Ice Barbarians...> . ... 36 

Chapter 4; City of the Ore Horde....41 

Guide to Garek Enkdal . 42 

Location Guide .. 44 

Encounter Strengths ..*.. 50 

The Temple and the Blackwell ... 54 

Appendix-The Blades of Corusk . ....61 

Appendix-Dream Handouts .. ..- 63 


2 
























required the page number of the reference is 
given along with an abbreviation of the book 
in which it is found* The following abbrevia 
tions are used: 

PHB means the AD&D(r) 2nd Edition Player's 
Handbook. DMG refers to the AD&D 2nd Edi 
tion Dungeon Master's Guide . MC refers to the 
Monstrous Compendium , and MCG refers spe 
cifically to the Monstrous Compendium , 
GREYHAWK 5 Adventures supplement, WG 
refers to the WORLD OF GREYHAWK boxed 
set. 


Introduction 


Five Shali Be One is the first in a trilogy of 
modules set in the north-eastern lands of 
Gerik. the great continent of the World of 
Grey hawk. 

These modules are designed to be played as 
a sequence. However, this module also has an 
alternative ending which brings the adventure 
to a conclusion for DMs who don't want to 
play the entire trilogy of modules. 


How This Module is Laid Out 

The events of this adventure are presented 
in the order they are most likely to occur. 
There is a defined linear storyline in the ad 
venture. but players won 1 ! feel they are being 
shoehorned into the storyline because of the 
unfolding mystery of the prophecy of the 
Blades of Corusk: The Five That Shall Be One. 
In addition to the specified goals of the 
adventure-finding out about and locating 
certain important magical items-other events 
and encounters are listed as options for you to 
use. These provide extra flexibility and free 
dom in the adventure script. 

The content of this module is meant for your 
eyes only. Any text that appears in a box is 
meant to be read aloud (or summarized) to the 
players. Players should not read other parts of 
the adventure. If you intend to role-play an 
adventurer in this adventure* DO NOT read 
any further! 


The Barbarian Lands of 
Greyhawk 

To understand the broad themes of this tril 
ogy it's necessary for you to have an under 
standing of barbarian cultures and lands in 
eastern Oerik* The pregenerated PCs are 
mostly barbarians and their integration into 
the adventure is also important in this con 
text. You should consider briefing players of 
barbarian PCs on the general and historical 
background below since their PCs would be 
aware of this information. 

This section also includes historical updat 
ing from the WORLD OF GREYHAWK boxed 
set. This adventure trilogy is set in CY582, six 
years past the final timeline of the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK boxed set. Political developments 
within the barbarian lands* including their 
alliances with other nations, are important. 
They form a crucial part of the backdrop to the 
adventure themes as they unfold-especially 
in later stages of the adventure. 

All the barbarian people of eastern Oerik are 
pure Suioise.The Suel people dominate the 
islands off the coast of eastern Oerik and In the 
lands of the Scarlet Brotherhood. The barbar 
ian Suel races are threefold and are our major 
concern here. 

The Frost Barbarians (including the pregen 
erated PCs), or Fruztii, call their land Rhizia, 
although other races refer to it simply as the 
land of the Frost Barbarians. They are the 
weakest of the three nations and are techni 
cally vassals of the powerful Snow Barbarians* 
This is an important factor in Frost Barbarian 
psychology: the Fruztii chafe at their subservi 
ence and resent the overlordship of their east 
ern cousins. 


The Setting 

The WORLD OF GREYHAWK (r) boxed set is 
useful as general background to this adven 
ture, but isn't required for playing it. The in 
formation given In this pack tells you all you 
need to know to run the adventure smoothly. 
However, if you want to convert the adventure 
for use outside the Greyhawk world, you will 
need to read the material below on barbarians 
and the barbarian lands of Greyhawk and con 
sider carefully how to set this adventure in 
another game world. 


Locating References 

When information from another source is 




Oerth-the Bandit Kingdoms. From here, 
weapons make their way up the Zumker river 
to Caibut and then through dangerous foothill 
territory at the very edge of the Griff Moun 
tains to the pass east of Kelten. The trade is 
discreet, but everyone knows about it. This is 
where the PCs enter the storv. as we shall see. 


The Snow Barbarians, or Schnai. are the 
most powerful and populous group, dominat 
ing Grendep Bay and the northern Solnor 
Ocean with their longships. Their marauding 
armies, with those of the Ice Barbarians, have 
also made themselves into a major force in the 
land. 

As yet. their successes have been modest, 
but this adventure may change all that... 

Tb update events from CY576. the time of 
the WORLD OF CREYHAWK (r) boxed set. the 
barbarians have made gains during the last 
six years. The alliance between Ratik and the 
Frost Barbarians against the humanoids of the 
Bone March has born fruit over years of co 
operation. The forces of Ratik now occupy the 
Loftwood and are preparing for a major as 
sault on the city of Johnsport, backed by a 
naval attack along the coast to the east. 

The other joint operation of these states has 
been against the Hold of Stonefist. Fruztii 
forces have now secured the pass south of the 
Hraak forest and control the land for some 20 
miles around. 

The Ice Barbarians have supported the Fruz 
tii to some extent by making naval raids along 
the northern coast of Stonefist. The Snow Bar 
barians have concentrated on attacks on Great 
Kingdom and Sea Baron shipping, although 
some of the Schnai have been seen "assisting" 
the Frost Barbarians in Stonefist. 

It is rumored that the King of the Snow Bar 
barians was not taken with a plan for the three 
barbarian groups to ally with Ratik-not be 
cause he didn't trust the Baron of Ratik who 
proposed the plans-but for simpler reasons. 
Major invasion of the Bone March would drive 
humanoids in their tens of thousands into 
North Province and might precipitate an all- 
out attack from the Great Kingdom. The King, 
being wily and crafty, prefers more opportunis 
tic and piratical actions. 

One final piece of the puzzle is the attitude of 
the Duchy of Ifenh. Duke Ehyeh has become 
notably more friendly to the Frost Barbarians 
of late. The actions of Ratik and the Frost Bar 
barians stir up the Bone March, which causes 
trouble for the Great Kingdom and for the The 
ocracy of the Pale. Both states have hostile 
attitudes to the Duchy. So. Ehyeh discreetly 
allows Frost Barbarian emissaries across his 
lands to organize shipments of weapons from 
the best source of weaponry in the whole of 


Overview 

Tb help you get an idea of the scope of the 
adventure, here is a brief summary of the 
events of this adventure. 

The PCs begin their adventure in the Bandit 
Kingdom city of Rookroost where they chance 
upon a mage being attacked by murderous 
thugs. One way or another, they join forces 
with the mage who wants to pay them to ac 
company him to find his master in White 
Fanged Bay, far to the north. Although reti 
cent. the mage knows of a barbarian weapon 
in a treasure horde and he knows something 
of an ancient prophecy concerning such weap 
ons. But, of course, his master knows more. 

The PCs make a detour on the way into the 
Bluff Hills. This is where the first of the five 
great Blades of Corusk mentioned in legend is 
found. It has been resting in the lair of a 
Shadow Dragon where the bard who held the 
weapon fell in a great battle with evil clerics. 
From here, the adventurers have to make their 
way to the home of the wizard of White 
Fanged Bay. Difficult encounters block their 
path, including the clear opposition of other 
barbarians-but who are these barbarians and 
why do they seek to thwart the PCs? 

The wizard, Karasten Meldraith. wants to 
accompany the PCs to find the third blade. 
They can accept his company or not as they 
choose, though they'll find it much harder 
going if they refuse. They have to wrest the 
third of the Blades of Corusk from an ore chief 
tain who rules a huge orcish city below the 
Griff Mountains-and make good their escape 
into the bargain. 

Ores might not seem powerful enemies for a 
party of adventurers of levels 7-10. However, 
there are thousands of them, and they have 
spellcasters, elite warriors, zombies, the chiefs 
pet troll, even orog-the elite great ore race- 
to boot. Hence, the danger they present is 
fairly formidable and the PCs will need to use 
a variety of skills to overcome them. This ad- 


4 




venture ends with the PCs gaining the third 
blade. 


players. Finally, note that barbarians have a 
form of "barbarian common"-the Cold 
Tbngue-which is derived from Old Suloise, 
Very few people other than barbarians will 
be able to speak or understand this language* 
although NPC exceptions will be noted in the 
text. Speaking the Cold Tbngue gives the PCs 
(save for Stumred the dwarf) a channel of se 
cret communication between themselves. You 
should check with players whether their play 
ers are speaking Cold Tbngue or Common in 
certain social situations. Speaking Cold 
Tongue may give them privacy, but it may also 
offend or anger those who are excluded from 
the conversation. 


A Note About AD&D-' 2nd Edition 
Game Rules 


This adventure is written using the termi 
nology and rules in the AD&D(r) 1 2nd Edition 
game, but the adventure is still playable if you 
are using the original game materials. Some of 
the more obvious differences are name 
changes of the character classes. For instance* 
the term "magic-user" has been replaced by 
"mage" (or, in a few places* the more general 
designation of "wizard"). The "cleric" charac 
ter class is now the "priest" class, although 
members of that class are still usually referred 
to as "clerics." "Fighters" are now called "war 
riors"* and "thieves" are now called "rogues." 
Bards, however* are very much changed from 
the original character class. 

Another change is in the presentation of 
monsters. The descriptions of the new mon 
sters designed for this adventure are identical 
in format to the presentation of monsters in 
the Monstrous Compendium series. Although 
the information is organized differently and 
has been somewhat expanded, nothing from 
the original format is omitted. Everything that 
DMs are accustomed to seeing is still provided 
in the new descriptive format. 


Barbarian Adventurers 


The pregenerated PCs detailed in the central 
pull-out section are mostly barbarians. This 
adventure could be run with non-barbarian 
PCs, but since its basis is having adventurers 
obtain powerful weapons which will greatly 
strengthen the barbarian kingdoms, obviously 
barbarian PCs have a much stronger motiva 
tion for accepting the quest, 

There is a special problem with non- 
barbarian PCs which you must know. Since 
one goal of the adventure trilogy is the cer 
emonial awakening of the Great God of the 
barbarian people* it's apparent that a cleric or 
priest of a non-barbarian deity would not be 
pleased by this. Use of the pregenerated PCs, 
or with barbarian PCs generally* is preferred. 
Note also that the encounters in this adven 
ture with undead are far more dangerous if the 
party has no priest-if the party has a priest, 
the number of undead should be increased. 

A problem with barbarian PCs is their align 
ment. The WORLD OF GREYHAWR • boxed 
set notes that the predominant alignment of 
barbarians is Chaotic Neutral, The pregener 
ated PCs are mostly of Neutral alignment with 
NG and CN both represented. 

Players should be clear about what this 
alignment means* Neutral-aligned barbarians 
are self-reliant, independent proud, and don't 
put up with nonsense from anyone. But* they 
are also very loyal to their tribe* their Chief 
tain, and their companions. Part of being a 
barbarian is the pride of being one of a "supe 
rior" tribe* the pride of being one with one's 
fellows. Despite their Neutral alignment these 
adventurers should co-operate and show loy 
alty to each other. 

The second problem with the pregenerated 
PCs is the inclusion of a bard. A bard PC is 
deliberately included here as a magpie-mind 
PC. Bards, as the PHB notes, learn a little bit of 
everything. There is scripted information 
about what the bard may learn of the Blades of 
Cornsk. dispensing some of this may help to 
develop the sense of discovery and unfolding 
mystery which will keep the adventure fresh 
and compelling. If there is no PC bard* this 
information will be difficult for you to feed to 


5 





Chapter 1: Into the Hills 


then the top flings open. It is filled with 
gold. The bandits murmur appreciatively, 
filling their hands greedily. The half-elf casts 
another spell and says. "It's real, not just 
fool's gold." 

The bandits have a browbeaten clerk 
present you with sealed documents of re 
ceipt and show you the final shipment of 
weapons being despatched to Marsakeer on 
the Zumker river. Your work is done and it's 
time to find a place to rest up in this un 
trustworthy city. As you leave the temple, 
you see the half-elf mage striding down the 
steps before you. He falls scattering posses 
sions and documents on the ground before 
him. He scrabbles desperately to retrieve 
them, looking anxiously about him. 


The adventure opens with the PCs arriving in 
the city of Rookroost. They don't have any 
pressing business at the moment having just 
completed a mission for their tribe. Read the 
text below to your players at the beginning of 
the adventure. At tiiis stage, Mallon (the half- 
elf mage below) shouldn't be a player charac 
ter. 


You have done your duty as agents of your 
tribe. You delivered a sum of money to 
agents in Rookroost. Rookroost is well 
known among your people as the place to 
gel the best swords and weaponry for their 
struggles in many lands. Now you are 
seated in the temple of Zilchus before a row 
of greedy-looking bandits. 

They take the small magical chest you 
brought and summon a nervous-looking 
half-elf. He's been looking around and fid 
geting since you arrived. He takes a scroll 
from a belted tube and mumbles for a mo 
ment. The chest grows in size on the table. 


The PCs can go and help Mallon here if they 
wish. If they just want to assist him. they can 
do this. If a PC wants to try to use some sleight 
of hand to "acquire" something, a rogue can 
make a Pick Pockets roll. If this is successful, 
the rogue can snatch a note from under Mal- 
lon's nose; the harried mage won't notice (at 




V. * Tffijflir v 


Hi 

Wi : (r) 

Us raSS 









this time). Give the player of the rogue Hand 
out I, If the rogue fails the roll. Mallon notices 
and angrily grabs the note with a cry of, "Give 
me that!" It Is clear that he attaches some im 
portance to it. Either way, Mallon strides off on 
his own away from the PCs, Note that the use 
of a spell such as ESP won't reveal anything 
because of Mallon's magical ring [see his pro* 
file). 

If followed, Mallon heads for a hostelry 
known as the Drunken Dragon where he 
meets with a hulking bandit bodyguard, Mal 
lon is from out of town and the PCs won't 
learn anything about him from asking around, 
If the PCs hang around Mallon and follow him 
the next encounter takes place as scripted, but 
you will need to alter the details a little* Other 
wise, tell the PCs that they find a moderate 
tavern to stay at before returning home, that 
they go out to get some decent food later in the 
day, and they are just returning to their ac 
commodation when,.. 

Assault in the Streets 

Map 1 shows the layout for a small section of 
the back streets of Rookroost the PCs pass on 
their way home. The PCs chance upon an as 
sault on Mallon, so read the text below to your 
players. 


Striding home, you hear the ring of metal 
on metal and the curses and shouts of com 
bat. There is a sudden flash of blue light and 
you duck as a forked lightning bolt comes 
streaking overhead! 

Looking toward the direction of the melee 
you can see a pair of chainmail-clad fighters 
attacking a vaguely familiar figure while a 
fourth person lies groaning and bleeding on 
the ground. You suddenly recognize the fig 
ure as the half-elf mage you saw earlier to 
day. He isn't going to last long against two 
strong warriors, that's for sure. You have a 
choice-help the mage or walk on by. 


If the PCs choose to help Mallon, continue with 
this passage; if they walk away, turn to the 
section headed Posting the Bail Bond below* 
If they help, the bandits assaulting Mallon will 
now also attack the PCs. At this stage, Mallon 
should be regarded as disabled and incapable 
of effective action (it's the PCs against the ban 


dits now). If the PCs get into real trouble, 
though, Mallon can manage a swift recovery 
and fire off a magic missile spell or two. 

The two bandits who were assaulting Mallon 
will turn to fight the lead PCs heading toward 
them, and the two bandits lurking in the side- 
alleys will strike at PCs running past. They 
gain + 2 to their hit rolls for these initial 
swings, and if they roll a natural 19 or 20 the 
PC must make a Dexterity check or else go 
sprawling from the force of the hit. This in* 
flicts ld2 points of damage and the PC must 
spend a full round getting up (and is +4 to be 
hit during this round). The bandit leader, 
Harkon Stanfeldrin, will emerge from around 
the corner where he has been keeping watch 
and will fight the PCs also. 

Lastly the bandit wizard who is watching 
everything from the rooftop [see Map 1) will 
use his spells to harass the PCs* He uses area 
spells [stinking cloud first, then web and slow) 
to try to cut off the rear of the PC group, and 
then individually targeted spells (such as 
magic missile) to assault PCs involved in me 
lee with the other bandits. The wizard, who is 
a specialist Invoker, has drunk a potion of fly 
ing and also has a mirror image spell, a shield 
spell, and a protection from good spell precast 
for protection. The wizard is cowardly and will 
fly away if the warriors are about to lose or if 
the PCs get a strong fighter up to face him 
(e.g.,with a fly spell) in melee. The bandits 
have a Morale of 14. which falls to 10 if 
Harkon is killed. 

Harkon won't surrender and, if he is some 
how captured or disabled, won't reveal any 
thing. The bandits might talk, but they know 
little. They are just hirelings of Harkon. who 
paid them 250 gp apiece to ambush Mallon. 
Mallon was to be killed and the property on his 
person taken. 

Bandit Fighters, 6th-level (4): AC 4, 4, 3, 3 
(chain mail and shield, two have Dexterity 
bonuses): MV 9; hp 41, 36, 28. 31; HAT 1 at 
+ 1: Dmg ld8 + 1 (long swords); AL NE; 

THACO 14. Each has a belt pouch with 3d 10 
gp and idlQ pp* 

Bandit Wizard, 6th-level Invoker: AC 7 (5 
versus good-aligned creatures); MV 12, FI 18; 
hp 27; Str 10, Dex 16, Con 17. kit 17. Wis 10, 
Cha 12; HAT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); AL LE; 
THACO 19. Spells- magic missile (x 3, 3 mis 
siles), protection from good*, shield*, mir- 


7 




ror image, stinking cloud, wed, lire ball, MelFs 
minute meteors, protection from normal mis 
siles*. Magic items: scroll of 2 spells: wall of 
lire and slow. 

* Precast spells. 

The wizard has a gold bracelet worth 50 gp, 
a pouch with 20 pp and a silver ring with a 
purple amethyst worth 125 gp. 

Harkon Slanfeldrin. Ice Barbarian, 7th-level 
warrior: AC 1; MV 12: hp 62: Str 18/44, Dex 
16, Con 16. Int 13, Wis 9. Cha 12: HAT 3/2 ( + 3 
with magical bastard sword +1 and weapon 
specialization); Dmg 2d4 + 6: AL CE; THACO 
14 (11 with magical sword and specialization). 

Magic items: chain mail +2. ring of free 
action, brooch of shielding (29 hp remaining). 

Harkon has a heavy gold bracelet worth 150 
gp and a gold signet ring with a small opal 
worth 600 gp. 

If the PCs win the combat, allow them a 
brief moment to look at the bandits they have 
'ercome while Mall on regains his senses. In 
jbJcular. tell them that the leader is certainly 
barbarian. He has no specific racial identifi 
cations. but an Intelligence check made with a 
- 4 penalty (one check for the smartest barbar 
ian PC only) allows the PC to suspect that the 
bandit leader is an Ice Barbarian. 

If the PCs are very quick to cast a spell such 
as detect magic, they should be allowed a 
round or two of time to take any magical items 
they detect (e.g.. on Harkon's body). Mallon's 
dead bodyguard has no magic. At the same 
time, if they are quick about it. they can take 
belt pouches, bracelets, rings, and similar 
valuables. 

Then there is the sound of the patrolmen on 
the street-the forces of law and order. Mallon 
curses and orders a fast retreat, saying that 
here in Rookroost there is little concern with 
justice, only scapegoats. The PCs should run 
off with Mallon. If they don't, have enough 
patrolmen turn up to arrest them and take 
them into custody (Mallon will make good his 
escape). 

If the PCs try to fight, tell them they don't 
have a hope against a large group of mean 
looking patrolmen, and if they put up a fight 
they'll just be killed. The players should get 
the message: run; stay and be arrested: or 
stay, fight, and die. If the PCs run off with Mal 
lon, go to Conspirators! below. If the PCs 
hang about to get arrested, go to Posting the 


Bail Bond. 

Posting the Bail Bond 

This scenario will be needed if the PCs run 
off leaving Mallon lo his fate, or if they hang 
around after the light, inviting arrest. If the 
PCs ignore Mallon, a large detachment of pa 
trolmen turn up in time to rescue him and the 
PCs get caught up in all of this. They can't 
avoid being hauled in. The system of "justice" 
in the Bandit Lands is arbitrary and the PCs 
will be locked up awaiting trial in the morning 
(with weapons confiscated, hands manacled, 
etc.). If the PCs gel arrested after a fight, then 
they'll be in a similar fix except that this time 
the PCs are held on charges of affray, gross 
bodily violence, and anything else the head of 
the patrol can trump up. 

In either case, Mallon comes along and res 
cues the PCs. He is shown into their commu 
nal cell at dawn the next morning. He makes 
their predicament plain to them: they can ex- 
pect to have all their possessions seized and be 
thrown into jail, or they can accept an offer 
from him, Mallon offers lo pay bail for them, 
which in Rookroost is tantamount to getting 
them out of the city. This is going Lo cost thou 
sands of gold pieces, so Mallon understand 
ably wants some assistance in return. He 
wants the PCs to escort him to visit his tutor, 
the mage Karasten, who lives in White Fanged 
Bay, Mallon says that he can offer the possibil 
ity of adventure along the way since he has a 
treasure map which might interest the PCs. 

Since the PCs aren't known to Mallon, he 
tells them he needs some form of insurance 
that they won't accept his help then abandon 
him. Specifically, Mallon demands that one of 
the PCs (the leader) must voluntarily accept a 
quest spell cast upon him to accompany Mal 
lon Lo White Fanged Bay to find Karasten. 

This is a reasonable request and the PCs 
shouldn't refuse it. Mallon only wants one of 
them to accept the quest. If they have doubts, 
Mallon says that a version of the quest spell 
can be cast which allows for Lhe spell to be 
canceled when a stated event takes place 
(shaking hands with Karasten) rather than the 
PC having to go back and prove that the quest 
has been fulfilled, Mallon tells them that a 
cleric of Zilchus can cast this type of spell, 

Mallon does not agree to show the PCs the 


8 




treasure map he has until they agree to his 
terms: bail bond for escort duty. The treasure 
map is an extra lure. Now, go to The Mage's 
Tfcle below. 

Conspirators! 

Mallon guides the PCs to the Drunken 
Dragon through a warren of back streets, say 
ing that they have to lie low. He ducks into his 
room by the back door, then offers the PCs a 
deal to get them all out of town. He makes the 
offer of money and treasure in return for es 
cort duty-refer to the previous section for 
details. Mallon will ask for a guest spell to be 
cast, to give him insurance, but he might be 
prepared to compromise on this (the PCs have 
saved his life, after all)* 

The Mage's Tale 

If you want to have Mallon be a PC. give a 
player the NPC Capsule for Mallon together 
with Handout 2. This handout tells the piayer 
what Mallon knows and what he is willing to 
tell other PCs. Mahon's map is on the reverse 
side of his NPC Capsule. However he is played, 
he will be cautious about what he says. 

The PCs first have to deal with some practi 
cal matters: getting released from jail if they 
are there; getting their possessions returned 
and others collected from their hostelry base: 
getting supplies for the journey; and getting a 
quest spell laid on their leader (Mallon pays for 
this). Then they have to decide which route to 
take. Mallon will readily show the other PCs 
his map-this is Map 2- so give this to the 
players. Map 3 is the DM's version of this 
same map with additional detail. 

One option for the PCs is to take the land 
route (shown on your version, Map 3). This 
will take longer if the PCs don't have mounts. 
Mallon is concerned about the bandit group 
that attacked him. If agents from so far away 
are tracking Mallon. this route might be safer, 
since the alternative is the more obvious way 
to go. The alternative is the river route which 
involves a land journey to Marsakeer followed 
by a river boat journey to Narleon and striking 
out across land from there. 

Mallon doesn't have enough money for 
mounts (he could buy one for himself), so 
cross-country travel will be on foot unless the 


PCs want to buy mounts. They can do this, 
but they wilt have to pay 30% above the prices 
listed in the PHB. 

Mounts will save time and Mallon will en 
courage the PCs to buy them if they are going 
to take the land route-otherwise horses 
would be left at Marsakeer and it isn't worth 
the bother. 

Mallon will then say a little of what he 
knows about the treasure there. 

Mallon says that his research in Nyrond and 
Furyondy has revealed a magical weapon of 
barbarian origin in the dungeon shown on the 
treasure map. He says he believes it to be of 
Frost barbarian making, but he isn't positive 
about this. 

Mallon further states that Karasten knows 
more about this weapon and may be able to 
help with identifying it. He may also have ac 
cess to ancient legends and tales concerning it 
(this should intrigue any PC bard). Mallon will 
finally state that he thinks that the weapon 
has bardic associations. 

He says that Karasten would dearly like to 
study this blade, but he is also certain that the 
old mage wouldn't wish to keep it. The PCs 
could have a fine magical weapon as a trophy 
to flourish on their return home. 

Mallon doesn't know what treasures may be 
in the dungeons, nor the hazards, but he sus 
pects that some kinds of undead may be 
present since he suspects the dungeon is a 
part of a burial ground. This is all he'll tell the 
PCs. 

Mallon's Note: If a PC managed to acquire 
Mallon's note during the first melee and con 
fronts Mallon with it. the mage may say a little 
more. Handout 2 gives further details on this. 

Journey to the Bluff Hills 

The land route is almost exactly 240 miles 
to reach the dungeon marked on the map. The 
river route involves a 100 mile cross-country 
trek to Marsakeer, followed by a 2-day river 
boat journey to Narleon. and a trek of some 55 
miles to the dungeon. Standard rules for cross 
country movement should be used [PHB, 
p.120: DMG. pp. 122-125 including rules for 
mounts). 


9 



mm 


Random Encounters Tbble 2-Hills Table 


Random Encounters 

Don't have any random encounters during 
the river boat trip or within 10 miles of a city 
or village. When the PCs are more than 10 
miles from the Bluff Hills, roll for random 
encounters on the Wilderness Tbble below. 
When the PCs are within 10 miles of the hills, 
or actually within the hills, roll on the Hills 
Tfeble below. 

You can use the encounter frequency system 
shown in the DMG, p.101, or just approximate 
and make 1 d4-1 encounter checks per day 
with a 50% chance per check of an encounter 
occurring [this averages to 0.75 encounters 
per 24 hours, a fair frequency). For the over 
land trek between Rookroost and Marsakeer, 
reduce the number of encounters to ld3-l 
encounter checks per day (there are more set 
tled lands in this area). Planned encounters 
are dealt with later in this section. 

Don't overdo random encounters or use 
them inappropriately. If the random roll 
throws up two or three tough encounters for a 
weakened party, weed some out. Statistics for 
monsters can be found in the Monster Statis 
tics Chart on the inside cover. Details of cer 
tain key encounters follow the encounter 
tables. 


D100 Encounter 


01-10 Bandits 

11-15 Bugbears. 2d6 

16-25 FUnds, 2d8 

26-30 Ghouls. Id4 +2 

31-35 Giants [hill), ld4 

36-45 Gnolls. 2d 10 

46-50 Gnolls, 2d6, and Flinds, 2d4 

51-60 Goblins. 2d 10, with ld6 worgs 

61-65 Griffons. Id3 

66-75 Ogres. ld4 + 2 

76-80 Ogres. Id4+4 

81-85 H-olls, Id4 

86-90 TYolls. Id4 +2 

91-93 Tyrgs. Id4 

94-95 Wights, ld4 

96-00 Worgs. pack of ld6 + 6 

Bandits: Use a group ofld4 +4 bandit war 

riors. each of levels 2+ ld4. 


The Monster Statistics Chart gives stats for 
bandits of each level. 

Assume that bandits all have the following 
attributes: + 1 to hit and damage due to 
Strength (included in stats), use long swords 
(Dmg ld8+ 1) and longbows, and wear chain 
mail and use a shield (base AC4). If you want 
to add some extra detail, 25% have Dexterity 
of 14 + ld4 (AC reduced by 1 per roll on the d4) 
and while 25% have Constitution scores of 
14 + ld4 (add 1 hp per level per roll on Ihe d4). 

Bandits may be renegades (50%) or agents 
of petty fiefs (50%) attempting to extract tolls 
for allowing safe passage. 

Bandit encounters should offer the PCs a 
chance to evade combat by paying up if they 
wish to do so. 

Humanoids: Use standard encounter and re 
action rules for all these encounters. Human 
oids can be expected to use "standard" 
equipment and weapons-ogres use clubs, 
gnolls use clubs and fiindbars. etc. The Mon 
ster Statistics Chart should be consulted for 
further details. 


Random Encounters Tbble 1 
Wilderness Table 


D100 Encounter 


Resting and River TYavel 

There is a chance of the PCs finding a farm or 
barn to rest in for the night. This is 50% likely 
per night between Rookroost and Marsakeer, 


01-10 

Bandits 

11-15 

Centaurs. Id4 + 1 

16-25 

Flinds, 2d8 

26-30 

Giants (hill), ld3 

31-35 

Giant-kin (verbeeg), ld4 

36-45 

Gnolls. 2dl0 

46-50 

Gnolls. 2d6, and Flinds. 2d4 

51-60 

Ogres. ld4 + 2 

61-70 

Ogres, ld4+4 

71-80 

Trolls. Id4 

81-82 

Wyvem, 1 

83 

Wyvems, 1 d2 

84-95 

Wolves, pack of d 10+ 10 

96-00 

Re-roll and add 1 extra 


encounter during the day 


10 






and 25% possible each night if the PCs take 
the land route for the first 50 miles (alter this, 
settlements thin out and the PCs are really 
into wild territory). The river journey from 
Marsakeer to Narleon costs 4gp per PC, and a 
small river boat carrying grain (and weapons) 
provides the transport. 

Planned Encounters 

These encounters are tougher than the ran 
dom encounters and require additional notes 
on enemy tactics and the like. You should 
place these encounters carefully. Don't throw a 
dangerous encounter with Mulselver's bandits 
at a party already weakened by an encounter 
with giants earlier the same game day. Also, 
don't feel that all (or even any) of these 
encounters must be used. 

Options are given for you to tie these 
planned encounters into the main plotline* 
Overdoing this may give the players the feel 
ing that encounter links to the plotline are 
being contrived, so these options should be 
used with discretion. 

In this first section of the adventure, just one 
planned encounter is used. Since the PCs are 
travelling through the Bandit Kingdoms, this 
encounter is with a very dangerous group of 
bandits. Most players will expect such an 
encounter, so don't disappoint them. 

Encounter 1. Mulselver's Bandits 

This encounter has a good fight with some 
nasty tactical twists for the PCs to deal with in 
the shape of the rogue NPC. It also gives the 
PCs some minor magical goodies to add to 
their store or resources. This encounter is best 
placed during cross-country travel before the 
PCs get into the Bluff Hills. 

This NPC group is fully detailed in the cen 
tral pullout section, Igrin Mulselver Is a rabidly 
chaotic evil individual and lives for plunder 
and bloodshed. He and his gang travel on light 
warhorses (with a tough little pony used by 
Hanna the halfling), assaulting merchant con 
voys and adventurers who look as if they have 
some money or treasure on their persons. 

These bandits use a fairly straightforward 
attack strategy. The five warriors spread out in 
a horseshoe shape around the PCs, slowly con 
verging. Hanna Blackhand uses her dust of 


disappearance , gets off her pony and sneaks 
behind and to one side of the PCs. 

If the PCs are aware of the approach of the 
bandits (this depends on the terrain), the ban 
dits waste time by pretending to be agents of a 
petty local baron or bandit princeling, asking 
for identification* statement of the PCs' intents 
crossing their lands, and the like. 

The bandits close to within 30 yards as they 
dismount (save for Anneka) and then Anneka 
throws one of the spheres from her necklace of 
missiles at the middle of the PC party. At this 
stage, the four male warriors race to the attack 
and the halfling rogue moves in for poisoned 
backstabbing. 

Anneka, who has a Riding (Land-based) +2 
Skill, is capable of fighting as well from horse 
back as she can on foot and doesn't need to 
dismount to strike. She will drink her potion of 
hill giant strength as she rides into the fray. 

Of these various enemies, Hanna the rogue 
presents unique problems. She is invisible for 
the duration of the combat due to her dust 
and, with her ring of blinking, she can move in 
and out of triple-damage backstab range aw 
fully quickly* undetected* 

You should consider using miniatures or 
keeping track of PC positions on paper to de 
cide who she strikes at. Or just determine this 
randomly using a dlO roll. Number the PCs 
randomly and roll a dlG. This will tell who she 
attacks during any given round. On a dlO roll 
greater than the number of PCs, Hanna blinks 
to a location where she can't get at anyone. 

Igrin is a maniacal fighter and will always 
attack the strongest-looking male opponent. 

He won't back down or surrender. The other 
bandits won't surrender while he lives- 
they're too terrified of him. Iflgrin falls, the 
morale of the male bandits is 10. that of An 
neka is 7, and Hanna will run to her pony to 
flee automatically. 

If Anneka flees, she will be hard to catch due 
to the magical horseshoes her horse wears. 

Finding The Shadow Caverns 

Mall on's map does not pinpoint these ex 
actly. Map 3 shows the location of the Shadow 
Caverns. When the PCs reach the area* they 
have to search for the entrance to the caverns. 

This is a 10' x8' wide entrance which Is 
partly occluded. So, finding the entrance isn't 


11 



pack of yeth hounds which once served the 
Hextor clerics* There are only three of these 
creatures here now, but they remain bonded 
to this place. They will automatically attack if 
the PCs enter the area, and are 50% likely to 
hear the PCs move past in the tunnel outside. 
The hounds will use their baying attack as 
they fly to melee. 

3. Barracks: This spacious cavern is semi- 
worked; the walls and floor have been 
smoothed over the years. The place is strewn 
with bones* scraps of ancient and long-rusted 
armor and weapons, the remnants of some 
furnishings* as well as the general refuse from 
a large-scale battle centuries ago. The bones 
are mixed-some human, some humanoid. 
There are no undead in this chamber (but see 
below). If the PCs want to sift through the 
bones, each turn a PC can turn up ld6 as 
sorted minor coins (cp, sp, gp-equal chance 
for either)* but they also have a 10% chance of 
the creature from the next location arriving to 
investigate [this won't trigger the glyph be 
hind the rocks). Up to 200 coins can be looted 
from here, 

4. Secret Chamber: Behind the rockpile is 
a secret door which has a glyph of warding 
spell still active upon it (this means a detect 
magic spell will reveal the door). This is cast at 
9th level and inflicts 9d4 points of chill dam 
age to anyone opening the door (saving throw 
for half damage). 

The chamber beyond is worked and con 
tains the faded and decayed remnants of a 
small shrine of Hextor. The shrine is draped 
with rotten black drapes and the crumbled 
black stone altar bears four evilly curved* 
sharp knives as well as some copper bowls 
with ugly* dark stains. The occupant of this 
chamber is a wraith and it lights fiercely 
against any living creatures who enter. 

This place radiates evil, but there is treasure 
if the PCs look for it. The skeletal former body 
of the wraith is slumped in the north-eastern 
corner of the room and it wears a solid silver 
bracelet with a bloodstone setting (worth 550 
gp)* There is also a small secret door in the 
north corner of the east wall* 5 r above ground 
level, measuring 18" by 15", which also has a 
glyph of warding spell cast upon it* Opening 
this door if the glyph is active inflicts 7d4 
points of fire damage on the person opening 
the door. 


easy. 

Intelligent use of magic should give the PCs 
a fix (although maybe not at the first attempt). 
Otherwise, an Intelligence check for the party 
(with a +2 bonus if someone has the Tracking 
skill, since this involves attending to subtle 
cues in the terrain) should be made twice per 
day. 

If the party doesn't make this check, they 
may spend a night or two exposed in open 
hillside while they wander around looking for 
the cavern entrance* exposing them to addi 
tional random encounter checks. 


The Shadow Caverns 

Map 4 is your map of the Shadow Caverns. 
These caverns are a small, long-lost complex 
of Geridian clerics of Hextor the Lawful Evil 
deity of discord and strife. In these gloomy and 
wretched caverns, these clerics fought against 
a Suloise force opposed to their lawfulness and 
their evil* All the clerics were slain. The bar 
barians, however* suffered grievous losses and 
the bard who last held Dreamsinger fell in the 
dreaded Great Chapel of Hextor. 

Centuries later, a young Shadow Dragon* 
Szeverin* felt himself drawn to the location. 
Szeverin was able to enter the place* despite 
his size* because he is something of a freak for 
a shadow dragon. He gained the shadow walk 
ability soon after birth* much faster than 
shadow dragons usually do. Consequently, 
Szeverin is able to enter and leave his lair as 
he pleases and he has a highly defensible base 
in the bargain. The undead within the com 
plex are either mindless and appear to accept 
the evil dragon in their midst quite readily. 

Within these caverns, there is no natural 
lighting. Ceiling height varies from 7-10'. The 
air is dank and musty, and the ground under 
foot has been undisturbed for many years. 
Statistics for all monsters can be found in the 
Monster Statistics Chart except for Szeverin 
who is detailed below* 

1, Descending Tunnel: This natural tunnel 
descends some 20' over a total length of 80' or 
so. It is clearly of natural origin and isn't 
worked. The walls contain some long-rusted 
iron brackets which once held torches, but 
these have long rotted away* 

2. Hound Cavern: This large cavern is also 
unworked and is home to the remnants of a 


12 




Within the 12" deep wall alcove is a fine 
sculpture in red gold showing six arrows fan 
ning outward. This has a small ruby set into 
the flight "feathers" of each arrow, and is 
worth 6000 gp. However, it is an evil thing and 
anyone taking it is subject to a curse: he or she 
becomes vulnerable to strikes from weapons 
used by Hextor (using any arrow, fork, scimi 
tar, hail, or morning star are + 2 to hit the 
cursed character!. Of course, this curse may 
take some time to reveal itself. Remove curse 
will only remove one of the adverse effects 
(determine randomly). Multiple applications of 
remove curse will be needed to remove all the 
ill-effects. 

Also within the alcove is a green crystal vial 
with blue crystalline powder inside it. This is a 
dried-out potion of speed (if pure water is 
added, it is still magical), and a scroll of four 
priest spells; bless, chant, prayer *2, 

5, Junior Cleric Cells: Each of these rooms 
is smashed and the small room beyond them 
is utterly destroyed. The remnants of pallet 
beds and similar spartan furnishings are 
strewn ail over the floor together with the skel 
etal remains of many dead clerics, and barbar 
ians. 

6, Stores: The door to this larger room is 
also smashed and bodies, ruined weapons, 
furnishings, and various broken items (bar 
rels. smashed glass, and the like) are all over 
the floor here. However, unlike other areas, 
there are some undead creatures still lurking 
here. Six shadows, together with two slow 
shadows lurk along the walls of this room, 
eagerly awaiting any chance to attack the liv 
ing. There is no treasure here save for a few 
coins the PCs could salvage from the bodies if 
they really want to (see #3 above), 

7, Hall of Battle: The huge, thick door here 
is ajar and almost smashed off its heavy brass 
hinges. This hall has the decor of a place 
where the clerics and fighter-followers of Hex- 
tor once practiced their military skills. The 
walls still bear a few mounted weapons (none 
magical); the floor has a mosaic grid used in 
manoeuvres. 

This place is packed with bodies. Some of 
them are still active, since, in desperation, the 
last few clerics used animate dead spells to 
replenish their numbers. The zombies here are 
mindless. If the PCs are being chased by the 
High Priest from the next location, the zom 


bies will attack them. The zombies are only 
10% likely to attack the PCs while they are in 
this room (or staring into it wondering what to 
do). There are 12 zombies in all. 

8. High Priest's Chamber: The door to this 
room is secured and locked. The door is of 
heavy black wood and there is a blast area on 
the wall around it (a triggered area glyph). 
inside, the room is surprisingly spartan and 
bare, although there is a stone statuette of 
Hextor in an alcove on the east wall. Room 
furnishings have decayed and rotted, but the 
inhabitant of the room is still active. The spec 
tre here will furiously attack those entering. It 
will pursue Lhe PCs Lf they flee, There is no 
treasure in this room, 

9. Hall of Pillars: This room is strewn with 
skeletal forms, decayed armor, and weapons. 
This is clearly where the Iasi major battle took 
place. The PCs are forced to walk almost shin- 
deep in bones and detritus here. This ensures 
that they won't be. able to surprise Szeverin as 
they approach the next room. Again* the PCs 
can loot up to 500 coins here (see #3 above), A 
detect magic spell will reveal that there are a 
few usable magic items littered about under 
neath the bones: two daggers + 1, a short 
sword +1, a shield + 1, and a quiver of 12 
Hight arrows +1. The pillars of the room each 
have a raised motif showing Hextor s six- 
arrow symbol. These radiate a faint evil, but 
have no magical power. 

10. Great Ttemple of Hextor: This is where 
Szeverin currently lives and has cached all the 
treasures he found within this complex. A de 
scription of the area is followed by details of 
the dragon and his treasure, 

The doors to this temple have clearly been 
breached but repaired sufficiently to keep 
them shut in place (but not locked). The wood 
of the doors has been defaced, although some 
traces of red gold can be seen underneath 
thick blade scratches within the wood. 

Inside, there is a massive symbol of Hate 
and Discord dominating the east wall, which 
can affect all non-evil characters and creatures 
entering here (saving throw versus spells or be 
affected as by a prayer spell). The other walls 
of the chapel have mostly defaced mosaics and 
etchings showing clerics of Hextor triumphant 
in battle, in one case led by Hextor himself, 

Szeverin crouches in front or the sym&o/, 
unaffected by it, on top of his treasure pile. He 


13 






will have cast his mirror image spell to create 
ld4 + 1 illusory duplicates of himself. Szeverin 
doesn't bother with any other spells. He 
breathes immediately, and will almost cer 
tainly use a breath attack as his second attack. 
Then he jumps into melee, using his claw and 
bite attacks. 

When Szeverin drains levels temporarily, 
you must unroll hit dice for lost levels and 
reduce PC hit point totals accordingly. This 
makes Szeverin a pretty terrifying enemy, but 
that s the idea. If the PCs have not been care 
ful (all of them lined up behind the door and 
caught in the breath weapon), they'll be in 
trouble. If they've been smart, they should be 
able to handle the dragon, 

Szeverin is a cowardly dragon. If reduced to 
15 hit points or below, he will offer the PCs a 
proportion of his treasure to leave him alone- 
he can speak Common haltingly. Use your 
judgement here, Szeverin won't offer to sur 
render if the PCs are in really bad shape, but if 
they look as if they can defeat him, he'll forget 
his pride and offer a deal. 

The PCs can take one-third of his monetary 
treasure, and either the magical sword Dream - 
singer or two magic items. If the PCs lost one 
or two of their members here, this could be a 
really good deal. Best of all, t hey could take 
the magic, rest up and recover hit points and 
spells, and come back to finish the job another 
day. If the PCs turn down the offer from a 
weakened dragon, he will fight for one more 
round and, if he takes any damage during it, 
will use his shadow walk ability to escape, 

Szeverin the Shadow Dragon: AC -4: MV 
18, FI 30 hp 3: HD 12: MV 44: M.T 3 + special; 
Dmg ld6 + 4/id6 + 4/3d6 + 4 or 2d4 +2 breath 
weapon + temporary energy drains [75% if 
fail saving throw, 50% if the save made); AL 
CE; THACO 5: SA "4 to opponent's saving 
throws versus magic cast by the dragon; 2 1st 
level wizard spells per day cast at 10th level 
phantasmal Force , spook); SD ld4 +1 mirror 
images (2/day), shadow walk (1/dayJ, immune 
to energy drains. Hide in Shadows 60%,; MR 
20%; SZG (35'). 

The sword Dreamsinger virtually screams 
its existence to any bard in the PC group. For 
details of Dreamsinger see the Appendix at 
the end of this module, Dreamsinger is in the 
middle of Szeverin's treasure pile. The other 
treasure which can be found here is the follow 


ing: 

Coinage: 9,950 cp, 7,055 sp, 4,450 ep, 

2,495 gp, and 755 pp. These are all mixed, of 
course. 

Gems; Scattered about are a total of 18 
gems (11 worth 100 gp each, five worth 500 
gp each, and two worth 1,000 gp each). 

Jewelry: Dispersed among the other 
goodies are some bracelets, neck chains, and 
the like-functional rather than decorative, if 
such a thing can be said of jewelry. There are 
12 such pieces, worth 200 gp each x 6 and 
300 gp each x 6, 

Miscellaneous Treasures; Also in the pile 
are; a pair of heavy crystal statues of elves 
(worth 1,500 gp for the pair or 500 gp each); a 
silver-decorated mother-of-pearl inlaid mahog 
any box [worth 500 gp) containing six gold 
rings (each worth 50 gp); a platinum chain 
with a small emerald pendant worth 900 gp; 
and a dragon's tooth necklace set into a plati 
num chain (worth 150 gp if it isn't realized 
Lhat these are dragon teeth, worth 1.000 gp if 
this is realized). 

Magic: There are several magic items in 
addition to Dreamsingen a footman 's mace 
+1 * a quarterstaff + 1, and a pair of slim calf 
skin gloves of missile snaring. These gloves 
are small and won't expand to fit the hands of 
a human or dwarf male {a female, or an elven 
or half-elven male* can wear these). A libram 
of gainful conjuration stands beside a large 
teak box, which has no value due to damage 
from dampness. 

Inside the box are some blocks of Incense 
(three of incense of meditation, one of incense 
of obsession), each of which is held in a little 
silver half-cube. There are also eight empty 
cubes in the box* Finally, there are two silver 
flasks (each worth 45 gp) each of which con 
tains a potion of polymorph self and a small 
leopard skin hat of disguise. 

An important note is that the //dram of gainful 
conjuration is intended for the mage in the 
party; it cannot be used by a bard. 

Give Handout 3 lo the player of the character 
who takes Dreamsinger This informs the player 
of the abilities of the weapon (not including the 
special purpose power which isn't revealed yet- 
see Chapter 3) and gives some important role- 
playing guidance also. The following chapter 
gives details on the visions and fugues which 
Dreamsinger brings with it. 




fgglgr 

jSi 

























ful rolls made here. For each level of success, 
reveal the information shown below (cumula 
tive). 

One Success: This weapon is undoubtedly of 
barbarian manufacture and is many centuries 
old. 

Two Successes: This weapon is one which 
was once used by a barbarian bard in whose 
hands it had greater powers. Unfortunately, the 
bard's name is lost to legend. 

Three Successes: The weapon was owned 
by a barbarian bard, whose name now comes to 
mind-Kristin Permfors* He was known for his 
prophetic visions and was rumored in some 
quarters to be half-mad. 

Four Successes: Permfors and the sword, 
Dreamsinger, accompanied a group of four other 
barbarians for a golden period during their ca 
reer. Three of the others were warriors, but the 
fourth was not, and nor was she a rogue. Hope 
fully. this should give the PCs something more 
to think about as they head for Karas ten 
Meldraith and White Fanged Bay where a sur 
prise or two awaits them. 


Bardic Skill and Dreamsinger 

Bards have a chance of knowing something 
about distinctive magical items because of their 
magpie minds and acquisition of general in Tor* 
mation. This chance is normally 5% per level of 
the bard in question. However, with Dream - 
singer this chance is reduced because of the 
obscurity and antiquity of the item. 

When a bard picks up Dreamsinger he will 
feel a strong empathy with the weapon and will 
know of its magical properties in the hands of a 
bard (as detailed in the Appendix). The bard will 
not know about the sword's power to implant 
dreams, visions, and fugue states. But this direct 
empathic understanding doesn't stop him from 
knowing something more from his general 
bardic knowledge. Roll four sets of percentile 
dice* and each roll below 5% times the bard's 
level minus two is considered a success (so, a 
7th-leve] bard would be successful on any roll of 
*5 or below)* 

What the bard thinks he knows about this 
oadsword depends on the number of success- 







PPM 


Information about Greenswathe is also in the 
Appendix. 

Reverie of Harmonies (Dream Handout 3); 

This refers both to chanting and singing in the 
rituals to the Great God, and also to the name 
of the greatest Blade of Corusk, Harmonizer. 
Ores (Dream Handout 4): This refers to the 
underground citadel of Garel Enkdal, where 
the weapon Stalker is to be found)* 

The Once and Present King (Dream Hand* 
out 5): This refers to the weapon Edge . which 
is currently held by a barbarian King. It is not 
found in this module but its whereabouts be 
come known at the end of the adventure. 


Chapter 2: 

White Panged Bay 


The route that Mallon will suggest here is to 
move north across the Bluff Hills, striking out 
north around the edge of the Griff Mountains, 
then head cross-country to the edge of the For 
lorn Forest toward the shore of the bay. If Mal 
lon is a PC, inform his player that this is the 
route Mallon wants to take. The large foldout 
map shows the area for travel. This is what 
Mallon intends, but an encounter will alter 
this. 

There are three elements of importance. 
These are random encounters, planned 
encounters, and the visions implanted by 
Dreamsmger. 

Dream sing er's Visions 

These occur in the usual way, through 
dreams (see description of Dreamsingerat the 
end of this module)* although an odd scrap or 
image can be Implanted in a fugue state if the 
you want. Don't overdo it with this material. 
The important thing is to keep Dreamsinger 
strange and eerie, so don't have PC dream 
night after night. The player of the bard or 
other character with this weapon has a role* 
playing challenge* to play the role of someone 
dreamy and even more other-worldly than 
they ever have been before. 

The dream images and visions below should 
be implanted at dramatic times. You don't 
have to feed the PCs all the dream visions be 
low if you don't want to-dispense information 
to keep players on tenterhooks* 

When you want to use a vision* hand the PC 
with Dreamsinger one of the Dream Hand 
outs in the Appendix at the end of this mod 
ule, The notes below are information for you. 
briefing you on the meanings of the visions. 
Flight of the Swan (Dream Handout 1): Use 
this first* before the encounter with the annis 
in the forest. This refers to Eristen the swan- 
may who is taking information about the 
sword Stalker to Karasten. The swanmay is 
met in the annis encounter* 

Dream of the Green Sword (Dream Hand 
out 2): This refers to Greenswathe , the magi 
cal scimitar possessed by Karasten. 


Random Encounters 

TWo tables for random encounters are given 
here: one for the Forlorn Forest and one for all 
other terrains. Apply the same rules and prin 
ciples to the frequency and deployment of ran 
dom encounters as suggested in the previous 
chapter. 

Random Encounters Table-Hills and 
Plains 


D100 Encounter 


01-10 

Bandits 

11-15 

Bears, brown, ld3 

16-25 

Bugbears, 2d6 

26-30 

Flinds, 2d6 

31-40 

Giants (hill). Id4 

41-45 

Gnolls* 2d6* and Flinds* 2d4 

46-55 

Goblins* 2d 10* with ld6 worgs 

56-60 

Griffons, ld3 

66-70 

Kech, ld4 + 2 

66-75 

Ogres, ld4 + 2 

76-80 

Ogres* ld4 +4 

81-85 

Trolls. Id4 

86-90 

TVolIs. ld4 + 2 

91-95 

Tyrgs, ld4 

96-00 

Worgs. pack of ld6+6 

Random Encounters Table-Forest 

D100 

Encounter 

01-10 

Badgers. Giant. Id3+ 1 

11-15 

Beetles. Stag, ld4 

16-25 

Ettins. Id2 


17 


26-35 

36-45 

46-50 

Hangman Tree. 1 

Harpies, ld8 

Kech. ld4+2 

51-55 

Ogres. Id6 

56-60 

Ogres. ld6 + 3 

61-70 

Owlbears. Id4 

71-80 

Small mammals (fox, etc.), Id4 

81-85 

TTeant. 1 

86-90 

Trolls, ld3 

91-95 

Wolfweres. Id2 

96-00 

Wyvern. 1 


Planned Encounters 

There are two major combat encounters to 
be deployed during this journey. The first of 
these will affect the course the PCs take for the 
rest of their journey. 

Encounter 1. The Ice Barbarians 

Gundar Hjortensen and his barbarians are 
fully detailed in the pull-out section: all statis 
tics for this group can be found there. 

Gundar has been dispatched by a fairly pow 
erful local baron of the Ice Barbarians to ob 
tain the magical sword Dreamsinger. His 
mission is simply to get that sword and kill 
anyone and everyone who possesses it. Gun 
dar does not know the significance of the 
sword. He does know that the current weapon 
is not potent in the hands of a warrior, and 
hopes that another one might be (and he 
might be allowed to keep it). 

Gundar doesn't know who paid him to do 
this work. He was given the job by a courier in 
Jotsplat, and then he and his group were 
shipped out to Stonefist. From there they have 
made their way to where they attack the PCs. 
Gundar has descriptions of the PCs. This de 
tail might reveal to t he PCs that someone has 
been taking a very active magicat interest in 
their travels so far. 

The combat tactics of this group will cer 
tainly involve an ambush attempt in the foot 
hills. fairly soon after the PCs have acquired 
Dreamsinger. Forces will be spread out with 
one spellcasler on either side of the PC group, 
each protected by one of the lesser fighters; 
the other four fighters rush to the attack after 
area effect spells have been cast. Otar the 
priest will certainly approach within 40' or so 
of the PCs to make sure his prayer spell affects 


melee. Rolf will stay as far away as possible to 
use distance attacks. This attack may well be 
close to dusk or dawn to allow Rolf to use his 
magical cloak to best effect. 

The preparations that this group will take 
for combat are: 

Gundar-swallows his potion of invulnera 
bility which gives -2ACand +2 saving 
throws for 5d4 rounds, then fights. 

Tosti-no special preparations. 

Otar-casts barkskin and resist cold to pro 
tect himself, then sanctuary, then bless, and 
finally prayer. Be sure to keep a time track of 
the bless/praver spells. Importantly, Otar 
prayed while burning incense of meditation, 
so all saving throws versus his spells will be at 
a - 1 penal ty and his spell effects are all at 
maximum potential. 

Rolf-casts shield, protection from good, 
mirror image and invisibility for his own pro 
tection (this mage is very paranoid) and exten 
sion 1 from his scroll to increase the duration 
of mirror image. Finally, he casts stoneskin on 
himself and releases a fireball spell. He tries to 
use stinking cioud to disable part of the PC 
party, and then uses magic missiles (spells 
then wand) to knock out PC spellcasters. 

Don't pull punches with this group. They 
want the sword and they want to kill the PCs. 
They don't waste time negotiating while their 
combat spells are running out. This is a do-or- 
die situation for the PCs. 

After this encounter. Mallon (inform his player 
if you have him as a PC) will strongly suggest 
the PCs head for the cover of the Forlorn Forest 
and get away from the plains as soon as possi 
ble. If Ice Barbarians are tracking the PCs, there 
may be more of them out there, and the forest is 
some protection. Whether the PCs actually do 
this or not doesn't matter too much-they'll 
have to cut across the eastern spur of the For 
lorn Forest to avoid a delay in any event. As 
long as they spend some time cutting through 
the forest, the second encounter will also take 
place. This is another tough encounter, so don't 
have any random encounters for a while before 
hand to make sure the PCs have a lair shot at 
handling this one. If the PCs refuse to enter the 
forest, add extra random encounters for their 
detour around it, but it isn't essential that the 
following encounter take place. 





Encounter 2. The Hags of the 
Forlorn Forest 

This encounter begins with the wielder of 
Dreamsinger waking screaming from a night 
mare. This is literally a nightmare (reverse of 
5th-level wizard spell dream) sent by a covey 
of annis hags which dwells further in the for 
est. The affected character loses Id 10 hit 
points and (if a spellcaster) cannot relearn 
spells for the following day. Any spells still 
memorized from the previous day are not af 
fected. however. 

This PC is nervous, disturbed, agitated, and 
apprehensive. As the PCs get further along 
their intended route, the affected PC gets more 
and more nervous. The PC begins to be af 
fected by fugue (see description of Dream- 
singer in the Appendix). The PCs then 
stumble into the Hag Copse (Map 5). 

The PCs find enemies all too ready and wait 
ing: three annis, three hill giants, and four 
human zombies (created using the animate 
dead power of the covey) as shown on Map 5. 
The annis dispense with disguise or change 
self spells here as being unnecessary. The 
covey is preparing to cast a polymorph other 
on the strongest-looking fighter in the PC 
group (turning him into a harmless piglet), 
while the giants rush to attack with clubs. The 
zombies shuffle forward toward the PCs. To 
one side, a human female is imprisoned in a 
force cage within a pit. 

This is where the PC who owns Dreamsinger 
finds out about the special purpose power of 
the sword-with a vengeance. This PC auto 
matically acts first in this round. A firespear is 
launched by Dreamsinger. streaking forward 
and striking the largest annis In the chest, 
ruining the covey's spell. A THACO roll is 
needed for this strike and 6d 10 points of dam 
age are caused. The radiant prayer effect of 
the power ripples out as a wave of antiphony 
over the PCs as usual (see sword description). 
The PC with Dreamsinger now knows of the 
special purpose power, snaps out of fugue, and 
has a - 2 initiative bonus for the rest of this 
combat. But from here on in. the PCs have a 
tough fight: the annis will attempt to use their 
forcecage power on the PC with Dreamsinger 
on the next round. After that, they use fog 
cloud spells to confuse the PCs and then come 
in to fight. 


Assuming the PCs manage to win t his com 
bat. the forcecage imprisoning the human fe 
male disappears after the annis are killed. The 
female is a swanmay, the ranger Eristen. The 
statistics for her below include some in paren 
theses which assume she can collect her 
equipment from the cottage of the hags. 

Eristen, 7th Level Ranger-Swanmay: AC 

7 (1): MV 15 FI 19: hp 46; Str 14, Dex 17, Con 
15. hit 14, Wis 14, Cha 13; #AT 2; Dmg ld3/ 
ld3 with fists (IdS + 1 and ld4 +2 with long 
sword +1, dagger +2): AL NG; THACO 14: SA 
+4 to hit vs. ogres, Move Silently 48%, Hide in 
Shadows 60% [halved in non-natural settings): 
SD can turn into swan and is only hit by magi 
cal weapons in swan form. She can influence 
animal reactions [PHB. p.29). Magic: cloak of 
displacement, leather armor +2. long sword 
+ 1, dagger +2, potion of extra-healing x 2. 

Eristen is initially very wary of the PCs. de 
spite the fact that they saved her life. She is 
torn between wanting to leave-she has no 
trust of barbarians-and needing to get her 
magic items from the hags' hut. She will only 
say that she is in the service of a powerful 
mage (true), and if the PCs try to do her any 
harm they wit! regret it. Eristen is nervous and 
jumpy. 

If the PCs mention Karasten to Eristen. she 
calms somewhat. If Mallon introduces himseir 
as a student of Karasten [and Mallon can give 
some personal details to back this up), the 
swanmay becomes much less troubled. She 
will give the PCs directions to Karasten's 
home, saying she is flying there to give the 
mage some information. 

The PCs will find it easy to search the hut of 
Ihe hags. It is filthy, strewn with ordure, 
bones, and grisly remnants of their feasts. The 
contents of the cauldron are indescribably vile. 
Apart from Eristen's Items, a crude wooden 
chest here contains the following items: bags 
with a total of 995 sp, 415 gp, and 55 pp; a bag 
of jewelry trinkets worth a total of 1,800 gp: a 
pair of gold-banded mammoth tusk tips worth 
4,000 gp the pair: a dirty, but still intact, 
winter wolf fur worth 1,000 gp; and a bag of 
holding {500 lb. capacity) which contains a 
quiver of 10 flight arrows + 1 . a dagger +2, a 
jade tube (worth 500 gp) with a scroll of wiz 
ard spells [polymorph self, stoneskin. and rope 






























































at the doorways and windows to poke their 
clubs at him, but clearly they will probably kill 
him if nothing prevents this. 

By this time the PCs should be doing some 
thing about all this. If Mallon is with them, he 
will be frantic to help his master. When they 
do finally help out one of the frost giants will 
head for the house while the other two will 
fight the PCs and try to keep them away from 
the house. The invisible magic-user will let fly 
with a lightning holt directed at the front PC 
fighters, forking the bolt if necessary. 

The giants will fight to the death here, since 
they are being controlled and they are blood 
thirsty at the best of times. The mage isn't so 
cavalier. He will try to harm the PCs as much 
as possible, using waf/ of fire to protect him 
self, and he has a fly spell precast so he can 
evade melee. If he lakes serious combat dam 
age, though, he has a teleport spell memorized 
and another one on a scroll, so he has a fair 
chance of escape. 

Karasten will use his spells to attack the 
frost giant in the doorway and he doesn't mess 
about, using his heavy artillery at once. 

Statistics for the frost giants are on the Mon 
ster Summary Chart, those for the mage are 
given below. A profile for Karasten Meldrailh 
is given in the central pullout reference sec 
tion. You should remove one offensive spell of 
each level from 1-5 from his listing there to 
reflect his battle with the stalker: he also has 
suffered id4 +4 points of damage from a single 
blow from the stalker 

Randrin Meverast, 9th Level Male Hu 
man Mage: AC 10 or 4/3/2 (sh/e/d spell); MV 
12: hp 35; Str 9, Dex 9, Con 15. Int 17, Wis 15, 
Cha 12; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 + i [dagger +1); 
THACQ 19; AL N. Spells; burning hands, 
magic missile, phan tasmal force , shield: detect 
invisibility .; invisibility mirror image; fly, light 
ning bolt slow; polymorph other, wall of fire; 
teleport. Magic: dagger + 1, ring of free action , 
scroll of 3 spells [hold person x 2, teleport], 
scroll of 2 spells [dimension door ; dispel 
magic), 

Randrin has a gold brooch set with came- 
Hans worth 450 gp, and a platinum neckchain 
with chrysoberyls which is a valuable Old Sui- 
oise antique worth 3,000 gp. 

If Randrin can somehow be subdued and 


trick) and a small box with two small white 
spheres stored inside. These are simply beads 
of force of unusual appearance. 


The Mage's Home 

Map 6 shows the general layout of the small 
bay where Karasten's home is located. There 
is a single way down from the escarpment 
above-down a fairly steeply sloping rocky 
and pebbled path. It Lakes 3 rounds to descend 
this path. A PC taking a chance and hurrying 
down can make it in 2 rounds but must make 
a Dexterity check or else slip and fall, suffering 
ld4 points of damage and needing 1 round to 
get to his feet. 

The PCs won't easily walk up to the house 
and enter. There is a real commotion going on: 
the initial positions of important creatures are 
marked on Map 6. 

Three frost giants are in the act of throwing 
boulders at the house. Five mongrelmen lie 
dead around the house and a total of eight 
more are fleeing to the back of the house for 
safety. There is also an invisible wizard at the 
point shown on Map 6. although he will al 
most certainly be out of range of a detect invis 
ibility spell if the PCs happen to have one 
running (or use one when they turn up here). 
He has 4 mirror images, from a precast spell. 
The wizard is using a potion of frost giant con 
trol to direct the actions of the giants. He does 
not perform any other actions at this time. 

For reference, Karasten Meldrailh the mage 
is inside battling it out with an invisible 
stalker (summoned from a scroll) which has 
been sent in to get him. Subsequent events 
will follow a definite timeline although the 
actions of the PCs will affect them. 

The frost giants will throw their boulders, 
one of which will smash down the front door, 
on the round the PCs turn up. On the next 
round, they will pick up clubs as the mon 
grelmen run further away in all directions. On 
the third round, they rush the house: on this 
round. Karasten will finish the invisible 
stalker off and will turn up at his front door to 
see what's going on. On the fourth round, one 
of the frost giants takes a swing at Karasten as 
the mage tries to get back into his house and 
cast a spell. The other two frost giants close in 
to aid their comrade. They strike with -4 pen 
alties at Karasten. since they can only crouch 


21 



interrogated, the PCs will get little out of him. 
He raves about Karasten betraying him to 
creatures which are controlling his mind by 
thought waves and the like. This is the result 
of a high-level insanity curse affecting him and 
no dispelling actions will be able to eliminate 
the problem. 

The Mage Explains 

Assuming the PCs are able to deal with the 
giants and the mad mage, Karasten will invite 
Stem into his home for some running repairs 
(see his profile; he will certainly use some po 
tions of healing/extra-healing to help the PCs if 
there is anyone in need). He'll want to know 
who they are and what they're doing at his 
home, but since they 've just helped him escape 
a murderous attack, he's going to be well dis 
posed toward them. He also says that he was 
told by a swanmay that some people fitting the 
description of the PCs were in the area. 

If Randrin's body (alive or dead) is available 
for inspection. Karasten will look sad and say 
that Randrin was once one of his pupils, but 
not one of his better ones. He resented being 
passed over for more diligent pupils. Karasten 
explains that Randrin became mad after an 
expedition into the Corusk Mountains. "The 
fools sought a magical orb, an evil and control 
ling thing, and they found what they sought in 
their own hearts," he says sadly. "I suppose in 
his madness he began to seek revenge on 
those he had built up grievances against in his 
weak little mind. Ah, well." and he falls silent. 

At this point the mongrelmen begin to come 
back to the house, looking rather sheepish, 
and Karasten and Malion go outside to help 
the fallen and begin to direct some repairs to 
the house. At this time, Malion tells Karasten 
privately what he has learned about the blade 
Stalker (inform Malion's player of this pri 
vately if Malion is a PC). Malion doesn't know 
exactly what the information means at this 
stage, of course. 

As the mongrelmen servants begin repair 
work on the house, Karasten arranges for food 
and drink to be given to the PCs, saying that 
what he has just learned is important and he 
begs the indulgence of the PCs to mull it over 
for a while. He departs for his study and re 
turns later with a pile of dusty old scrolls, 
manuscripts, and a tome or two. Karasten now 


gives the PCs a briefing on what he knows 
about the Blades of Corusk, after having Ran 
drin incarcerated in his cellar if he is still alive. 

Karasten will tell the PCs quite a lot here, 
while keeping some of what he has discovered 
Lo himself. What follows is an exhaustive de 
tailing of what Karasten knows and says, and 
you may wish to spread this out over a period 
or up to a week in game time while the PCs 
recover from their wounds, relearn spells, and 
the like (one of the PCs may well want to read 
the libram of gainful conjuration], PCs may be 
awarded XPs here and any level gains imple 
mented. 


What Karasten Says to the PCs 

Karasten does not tell the PCs everything he 
knows about the Blades of Corusk. His profile 
(in the central pullout reference section) sum 
marizes what he does know and at the end of 
the boxed text below are a few things he's 
aware of that he doesn't tell the PCs. 

The text below assumes that the majority of 
the PCs are barbarians, if this isn't the case, 
then you will have to amend it before reading 
it to the PCs. 


"Malion tells me you have the Dream- 
singer sword. Malion wasn't sure if that's 
what it was, but I think it must be. Mind if I 
take a look?" You hand the sword to the 
mage, who admires its strange design and 
holds it lovingly. "Lovely thing isn't it? 

Such tales it has within it..." 

"It's ail old barbarian weapon. I'm not 
sure, but 1 think a Fruztii held it last. One of 
your own. But this little broadsword is only 
one piece of the tale. It has clues about i he 
others, I think. Tell me, what dreams has it 
shown you?" 

"Interesting. Many clues here, many 
clues, but so much to learn." The mage 
thumbs through one of his tomes, sighing 
impatiently. "Well, at least we know about 
two more of these blades, That only leaves," 
then he breaks off in annoyance at himself. 
"Dear me. I'm rather getting ahead of my 
self. You don't even know the basics yet. 

''They are very, very ancient, the five 
Blades of Corusk. Barbarian magic, barbar 
ian weapons, great heroes of your people 




in the past. These things are all part of the 
history. I'm afraid you Suloise peoples left 
too much unrecorded. However, there's 
some evidence I can be fairly certain about. 

"The five weapons are lost and scattered, or 
at least they have been for quite some time. 
Not even a diviner could find them, the stories 
say. The magic in their creation must have 
been very powerful." Karaslen looks thought* 
ful, he mulls over something for an instant, 
and then returns to his explanation. 

"The legends say that if the five blades 
are brought together again, greatness shall 
come upon the barbarian people. The leg 
ends say that a great force is unleashed 
which will beat down the enemies of the 
barbarians. The power of the weapons 
themselves will be greatly magnified and 
expanded when the Five Become One and a 
greater force will inspire the barbarian folk 
to glory and dominion. I speak of a Power: 
the Great God of the North!" 

Karasten's face seems lit by joy as he 
speaks. For an instant, it seems as if an inner 
light infuses his face and he looks young and 
strong, his face is that of a barbarian warrior. 
There was no doubt about it. This is some 
thing utterly unexpected and very strange 
indeed. Is he one of your people? Ybu don't 
have time to ponder. His words tumble along 
and you are transfixed by them. 

"Drive the bandits out of Stonefist and the 
murderous rabbles out of the Bone March, 
sweep through the lands of the Rovers and 
to the south. Who knows where the great 
power will prevail and be led to glory? Shall 
the Suloise rise again, my friends?" 

Then Karaslen relaxes back into his chair 
and breathes deeply. "Shouldn't get so ex 
cited at my age." He seems lost in thought, 
then snaps back out of his reverie. "My 
friends. I want to offer you a great chal 
lenge. From Mallon's report of you. and 
from your help here, I feel trust and confi 
dence in you. Will you seek the three re 
maining Blades of Corusk with me? Will you 
return to your people as heroes and lead 
them forth to rightful conquests as the true 
god of your people is returned to them?" 


If the players don't seem to realize it, don't 
point out that there are five blades in the 
prophecy, you hold one. and yet Karasten has 
mentioned recovering three lost blades. They 
should figure it out for themselves. If they do, 
Karasten will grin and say that they do have a 
head start on bringing all five swords together. 
But he still requires the agreement of the PCs 
to go hunting the other swords before he 
hands over the second blade. 

If the players are wary, both Karasten and 
Mallon will do all they can to persuade the PCs 
to help. Point out also that the PCs are barbari 
ans and they should rejoice at the chance to 
bring such magic back to lead their people! 
Karasten will brief them on the whereabouts 
of the third sword which he has just learned 
about (see below on this). The other two are as 
yet unknown to him, but he has a lead on Lhe 
fourth sword. So. matters look promising and 
there are things to do right away (getting the 
third sword). You may also review the informa 
tion which Karasten has but doesn't tel) the 
PCs about immediately: this is also summa 
rized below. He may be prepared to dispense a 
little of this information if pressed on a specific 
point by a PC, 

Lastly, a fair compromise option is to have 
the PCs agree to help Karasten find the third 
sword which is in the orcish city (see below), 
and then "see how it goes." This will be suffi 
cient for Karasten to loan the second sword, 
Greenswathe, to them. It also offers you the 
option of ending this adventure without play 
ing the further modules in the series. 

What Else Karasten Knows 

Karasten knows some other things which he 
doesn't mention to the PCs. 

The Ritual: Karasten knows that when the 
five Blades of Corusk have been brought to 
gether. a potent magical ritual fraught with 
danger must be enacted to draw upon the 
Power which will lead the barbarians. He 
doesn't know exactly what this ritual Is. nor 
does he know how to find out. He doesn't want 
to admit his ignorance and. if pressed on the 
matter, may try to waffle his way out of it. 


The Fourth Sword: Karasten will give a 
sanitized version of what he knows about this. 





the druid is the obvious candidate. 

Greenswa the is detailed in the Appendix and 
the properties of this blade should be revealed 
to the player of the PC who receives it, Karas- 
ten's donation of this wondrous weapon is a 
very direct demonstration of his trust and 
faith in the PCs. 


In addition to what he tells the PCs, he sus 
pects that the sword is held by a barbarian 
chieftain of great power who may prove resist 
ant to giving it up. He doesn't know who this 
is because of resistance to his magical scrying. 
He is very apprehensive about this. 

The Accumulating Danger: Karasten 
knows that when the swords are brought to 
gether some powerful magical enmity will be 
invoked. He doesn't know what this is. He only 
knows that, just as when all five are assem 
bled and a Power can be brought down, some 
powerful magical opposition will be generated 
and may seek out the swords and those who 
hold them. 


The Third Sword 

This is where the PCs are headed next, of 
course. Because the PCs are likely to ask about 
the next step of their quest at various times, 
no boxed text to read out is given here. Rather, 
here is a summary of what Karasten will say 
about their next move. 

The information that Mallon brought to 
Karasten is that "Stalkeris in the black well at 
Garel Enkdal " This has told Karasten much. 
Stalker is the third sword. Karasten is fairly 
certain that this is a warrior's weapon, he also 
thinks that it is a highly unusual one-subtle 
and strange. That is, it has powers of illusion 
and deception which affect combat. 

Garel Enkdal is an underground orcish city 
below the Griff Mountains. Karasten does not 
know the exact location of this city, but he 
does have a general location and It should not 
be difficult to find a way into the city and ca 
vern complex. Karasten does not know any 
details about the city. 

Karasten doesn't know what "the black 
well 1 ' is. However, since this is a fairly specific 
reference it is an advantage for the PCs. It will 
allow them, hopefully, to locate some specific 
area within the city which they can find out 
about by magical detection, espionage, interro 
gation. and/or other means. 


Karasten Himself: Karasten does not know 
his own parentage, having been abandoned in 
the Bandit Kingdoms as a child, but he does 
have Frost barbarian blood in him (he dis 
guises this fact most of the time). In part his 
desire to find the blades and return them to 
the Fruztii is a desire to return to his own peo 
ple. His ideas about this strong motivation are 
oddly vague, as it' he himself feared to think 
about them too closely. 


The Second Sword 

When the PCs agree to help on the quest to 
find the other Blades of Corusk (they may 
want to hear about the third sword first), read 
the following paragraph: 


Karasten casts a spell with no visible ef 
fect, but shortly a slim, long object wrapped 
in heavy black cloth comes drifting in from 
his study. Slowly, pausing for dramatic ef 
fect, he unwraps the cloth fold by fold. The 
gleam of a golden scimitar in an ornately 
decorated scabbard is revealed. "Beautiful, 
is it not?** whispers the old mage, "TXvelve 
years to find this. And now it is for you" 


Karasten As An Adventurer 

Obviously. Karasten wants to accompany 
the PCs. They won't be able to slop the mage 
coming with them. There are different ways in 
which you can handle this. 

First, you can run Karasten as an NPC. This 
is fine, except that decisions have to be made 
about Karasten*s spell choices and usages. You 
might wish to consider asking the players to 
choose Karasten T s spell list and make tactical 
choices about spell use during combat, sur 
veillance, etc. 

Second, you can have a "second DM" run 


Karasten stays silent and looks modest if 
asked how he came by the sword. Surpris 
ingly, he simply bought It from a weapons 
dealer in Stoink who was unaware of its value. 
He does not know the weapon's history. 

Karasten gives the scimitar. Greens wa the, to 
the most appropriate PC in the party. If you 
are using the pregenerated PCs, then Ingrid 


24 




Karasten choosing spell and item use as 
above. 

Third, you can allow Karasten to become a 
PC, If you do this, then the player will have to 
be briefed on what Karasten knows, which will 
mean supplying him with information from 
Karasten s profile and the sections above. The 
player should not just give away the extra in 
formation which Karasten has not passed on 
to the PCs to date! 

Be aware of the effect which including 
Karasten in the PC party will have on game 
balance. He is a powerful mage, but he has a 
major problem: relearning spells is not easy 
for him. His profile in the central reference 
section gives rules for his relearning spells. 
Karasten isn't senile or dumb, but he does 
have real trouble relearning spells. You must 
apply the rules on memorizing spells and the 
time required for this ( PHB, p.81) quite 
strictly. 

Also, note that with Karasten and Mai Ion 
included the PC party is likely to be considera 
bly higher on magical firepower than they will 
be on recuperative (healing) powers. Given 
this, dangerous combat situations may not 
necessarily be ones in which the PCs are faced 
with lots of brute force, but rather ones where 
they can be surprised and subjected to sneak 
attacks which catch them off guard. Play on 
this tactical element when you want to make 
the players nervous. 

Bardic Skill and Greenswathe 

A bard PC may know something about 
Greenswa the from general bardic knowledge. 
The chance for this is tow, however. Make four 
dlOO dice rolls-any roll which is below a per 
centage figure of three times the bard's level is 
a success. Dispense the following information 
depending on the number of successes roiled. 

One Success: The weapon was once used by 
a barbarian druid, a follower of Obad-hai, and 
the druid was known for exceptional wisdom. 

Two Successes: The druid s first name was 
Perenn, The weapon gave her command of 
elemental forces at the height of her powers, 
and some form of summoning magic. 

Three or More Successes: Perenn definitely 


travelled with a barbarian bard, a man named 
Permfors, in a group of five barbarian adven 
turers, The three others were warriors. One of 
them used a great two-handed sword, the 
most powerful barbarian magical weapon in 
existence at the time. 

Preparation For The Journey 

When you have completed Karasten's brief 
ing, healing, spell relearning, and training, 
then the party is ready to set off for the orcish 
city ofGarel Enkdal. Mundane re-equipping 
can be done at Karasten's home. There is also 
one special part of equipping which Karasten 
attends to. 

The old mage brings out a small teak case 
which has eight small silk-lined compartments 
built inside it. Inside each of these is a pair of 
small pink-tin ted lenses. Each of these is a 
lens of infravision. which when placed in the 
eye [as per a contact lens) confers infravision 
to a range of 60'. PCs who are not demihu* 
mans will find these very useful. "After all, 1 ' 
Karasten points out, "ores don't need light. If 
we humans walk in with torches or magical 
light, we would be very foolish/' Karasten 
gives one pair of lenses to each PC who needs 
them and retains the rest in the case as back 
ups. after taking a pair for himself. 

These lenses are slightly irritating to the 
eyes and can't be worn for more than 14 hours 
in any 24-hour period without ill effects. Over 
use of them has the following effects, cumula 
tive for each day of over-use [and disappearing 
in reverse order for each day when they are 
not over-used): 

-2 to all missile fire hit rolls: - 1 penalty to 
Dexterity; further - 1 penalty to Dexterity; 
migraine headaches, with - 1 penalties to 
Strength and Dexterity: mental befuddlenient 
from headache, with -1 penalties to Intellh 
gence and Wisdom. 

The PCs should figure out that it isn't sensi 
ble to overdo it with these special magical 
items. If they persist, add further penalties as 
you see fit. 


25 








too much trouble. If your PCs aren't Frost Bar 
barians, it's reasonable to assume that, at 
their levels of experience, they know how to 
prepare for travel and adventuring under such 
conditions. 


Chapter 3. 

Drawn to the Darkness 


The large fold-out map shows the hex in 
which entrances to Garel Enkda! are located. 
Map 7 is a map Karasten shows to the PCs 
which has this marked and which also has a 
suggested route marked upon it. Karasten 
suggests spending as little Lime in the moun 
tains as possible, since there are many danger 
ous monsters in them. However, close to 
Vlekstaad, it is actually safer in the mountains 
because of the fierce "Fists" (marauding raid 
ers) which patrol the plains and foothills, So, a 
route which sets out through the forest, across 
the plains, into the Griff mountains for a time, 
back down to the foothills, and then finally 
strikes out for the mountains again (as Map 7 
shows) is clearly the best route. If the PCs in 
sist on taking some less sensible route, throw 
a few extra random encounters at them. 

As before, during the journey to Garel 
Enkdal there are three elements of Impor 
tance. First, Dreamsinger implants more vi 
sions into the mind of its wielder. Second, 
there are random encounters. Third, there are 
planned, staged encounters. These are dealt 
with below, but first there is the matter of 
mountain travel. 


Dreamsinger's Visions 

As before, these should be used sparingly 
and with some dramatic emphasis, in dreams 
or fugue states. You may substitute one or two 
previously unused visions for those listed 
here; don't feel obliged to use all the possibili 
ties listed below. 


The Baleful Eye [Dream Handout 6]: You 

may treat this as the equivalent of a night 
mare [reversed dreamt spell if you wish. This 
refers to the Temple in Garel Enkdal. where 
the sword Stalker is hidden. 


The Return of the King (Dream Handout 

7): This is a straight repetition of the vision 
described as The Once and Present King in 
the previous chapter. It is a further foreshad 
owing of the location of the fourth sword. 
Don't use this unless you have given out; 
Dream Handout 5 earlier. 


The Sword and the Shadows (Dream Hand 
out 8): This refers both to the properties of 
Stalker and to its location within the shadowy 
Blackwell). 


Travel in Mountainous Tferrain 

First* note that Karasten is not likely to slow 
the PCs down too much. He's not as feeble as 
he seems, as his profile shows. 

Second, use standard rules for mountainous 
terrain and movement here [DMG, pp. 124- 
125). This will mean slow movement, but this 
isn't an adventure the PCs can expect to deal 
with quickly. 

Third, if you wish to introduce some special 
features-a chasm or two. for example-then 
feel free to do so, but make sure the PCs have 
a reasonable way of dealing with the problem. 

Finally, no special rules are given here for 
travel in the mountains and the effects of tem 
perature. It will be a little chilly, especially at 
nights, at a high altitude in the Griff Moun 
tains. It is assumed that Frost Barbarians, 
equipped with their usual gear and topped up 
with Karasten's furs, can handle this without 


Random Encounters 

Tvo tables are given below, one for encounters 
in plains and one for encounters in the Griff 
Mountains. For travel within the Forlorn Forest, 
use the table provided in the previous chapter. 

Make Id4-I encounter checks per day in any 
terrain other than mountains: make ld3-l 
encounter checks per day in the Griff Moun 
tains. In each case, there is a 50% chance per 
check of an encounter occurring. Notes on 
certain encounters are found below the tables. 

These tables differ from previous ones. The 
plains encounter table includes one or two 
different encounters to add a little variety. The 
mountain encounters include some fairly 
tough encounters, to reflect the greater power 
which the party now has with the acquisition 
of another of the Blades of Corusk and an addi- 


27 




tional wizard Into their midst, It is also a more 
varied table, allowing for the number of 
encounters which may occur during travel in 
this difficult terrain. 


Random Encounters 1-Plains 

D10G Encounter 


01-10 

Bandits. ld4 + 4. levels 164+2 

11-20 

Bears, brown, ld4 

21-30 

Bugbears, 2d6 

31-40 

Gnolls. 2d8 

41-45 

Griffons. Id4 

46-50 

Harpies, ld4+4 

51-60 

Ogres. ld4+4 

61-65 

Ogres. 164+2, with 1 Ogre Mage 

66-70 

Poisonous snakes. Id2 

71-75 

Trolls, Id4 +1 

76-80 

Trolls, two-headed, ld4 

81-85 

Wolves. 2d8 +2__ 

86-90 

Worgs, 2d6 

9195 

Worgs. 2d6, with 1 Wolfwere 

9600 

Wyvern 

Random Encounters 2- Griff Mountains 

D100 

Encounter 

01-05 

Bear. cave. Id2 

06-10 

Bugbears, 2d 8 

11-15 

Crystalmist 

16-18 

Galeb Duhr. 8HD. Id3 

19-20 

Galeb Duhr. 10HD, ld2 

21-25 

Giants, hill, ld4 +1 

26-28 

Giants, hill, ld3+3 

29-35 

Giants, stone, ld4 

36-40 

Giant-kin, verbeeg. ld4 + 2 

41-45 

Gnolls. 2d8 + 2 

46-48 

Lions, mountain, ld4+ 1 

49-50 

Lions, spotted. Id4 + 1 

51-55 

Ogr^s, ld4 + 2 

56-58 

Ogres. ld4+4 

59-60 

Ogres, ld4 + 2, with I Ogre Mage 

61-65 

Ores, 4d4 

66-70 

Ores, 4d6 

71-75 

There, 2d4 

76-80 

Trolls. Id4 + 1 

81-85 

Trolls, two-headed, ld4 

86-90 

Tvrgs, ld4 +1 

91-94 

Urds. d4+ 1HD, 3d6 

95-96 

Wights. Id4 

97-98 

Worgs. 2d6 

99-00 

Wyverns, ld2 


Stone Giants: Make a standard reaction 
check here, but the giants are unlikely to be 
openly hostile. Their main concern is simply 
that the PCs keep away from their caves. They 
have food (game, bread, cheese) which they 
will trade for things useful to them (worked 
utensils, rope, daggers for use as toothpicks, 
and the like). Or, you can have one limping 
with a slight wound to his heel so that a cure 
light wounds spell will make the giants consid 
erably more friendly. They know the entrances 
to the orcish city and will confirm that Karas- 
ten's destination is the right one. They regard 
the ores as minor nuisances but warn the PCs 
that there are a lot of them, and that they co 
exist with other creatures. There are certainly 
trolls in the orcish city, and possibly worse. 

Lions: If there is a druid in the party (or a 
cleric/priest with speak with animaisfanimal 
friendship)* such creatures might be pacified 
and one or more taught to be an animal com 
panion (by the animal friendship spell}. A pair 
of spotted lions, for example, can be a very 
potent force in combat as auxiliary fighters. 

Ores: There is a chance that the ores are 
from Garel Enkdal. This chance is 100% less 
twice the number of miles between the city 
and the PCs. Thai is, if the PCs encounter ores 
35 miles from the city, there is a 30% chance 
they are from it (100 - 2 x 35). If the PCs take 
prisoners and interrogate them, they may 
learn something about the city and Its layout. 

The following chapter gives details of the 
orcish city and you should decide how much 
information to feed the PCs, The ores will be 
standard soldiers and won't have any detailed 
or secret knowledge, but they may be able to 
give a fair account of ways in and guards. 

They will have to be certain that they won't 
just be killed after they talk, though, and they 
may well distort the truth. 

Statistics for ore hunting parties are given in 
the next chapter; if you have determined that 
the ores encountered will be from the city, 
then you may substitute such a party here. 



j) HoK> of 
Sconefisi 


White pAmjeft Bay 


Wisten's home 


C 5 ^ C 1 

c\ r\ r 

the pocloan forest 


vieicsUA^ 


's?'* f's Pi* P%* f $* 

Pj? ZJfPjt* P^P'sP 

ssf's ¦v; V 

<f*^ Qj typtyP b*f V 


Titivces of the flARRens 


CaIwjI 


to the ORCish City 1 hex =15 miles 


Sy* 4^ O'^'Ts 

31igisf , 

. s! v *?$$$$¦ 

. .. ;: guff hk -; - g: frfr?V"/*VfV 


Handout 1 

My dear Fer'Asque. 

Thank you for the volumes you brought to 
me. I'm sorry that 1 could not have been 
present to thank you in person. The elemen 
tal were being troublesome! 

In return. 1 did manage to decode the very 
obscure references that old goat despatched in 
your care. Tfell him that "Stalker was last 
known to be in the Blackwell." Scrying doesn't 
work, of course. 

Tbke care in Rookroost. If you can't be good, 
be careful! 

Tyrolian of Rel Mord 


Handout 2 

Mallon has been engaged in archival and 
library research for his old tutor, Karasten 
Meldraith. Consulting mages, sages, librari 
ans. and priests, he has pursued his master's 
interest in a set of five magical barbarian 
swords-the Blades of Corusk, Mallon has 
been able to locate one, a broadsword in the 
Bluff Hills, and has a lead on another which he 
only knows as Stalker. It is this information he 
is taking to Karasten (ask the DM for Handout 
1 if you don't have this already). He does not 
want the other characters to know exactly 
how many swords exist, and certainly not the 
information he has for his tutor. 

Mallon knows some other things he won't 
wish to tell the rest of the party if possible. He 
knows that Karasten has the blood of a Frost 
Barbarian in him. He also knows that there are 
conflicts between different barbarian tribes. 


29 








Karasten Meldraith 

10th Level Human Male Wizard 
(Mage) 

Str 7 

Dex 9 

Con 10 

Ini 18 

Wis 16 

Cha 14 

Alignment; N hp: 28 

THACO18 AC 2 

Weapon Proficiencies: dagger, quarterslaff. 
Non-weapon Proficiencies: ancient history + 1 (19)* 
ancient languages + 1 (19}* etiquette (14)* heraldry + 1 
(19). read/wrtte (3 7)* spellcraft +2(18), 

Languages: Cold Ibngue, Common* Flan, Old Sul- 
oise. 

Experience Point Ihlly: 291.265. 

Spell Use: 4 tsl-LeveL 4 2nd-Leveb 3 3rd-Level, 2 
4th-level and 2 5th-Level spells per day. 

Spell books (kept in bag of holding with magic mouth 
spell cast to scream if anyone other than Karasten 
touches ihe bag); Level 1: burning hands, cantrip * 
charm person* comprehend languages f delect magic, 
erase, feather fall, light, magic missile, mending, read 
magic . shield, unseen servant. Level 2: blur, darkness 
15 'radius, defect evil, detect invisibility, ESP. forget, 
invisibility, knock, levitate, mirror Image, ray of enfee- 
blement, scare. stinking cloud , strength, web , wizard 
lock. Level 3: cla/nwance, dispel magic , fireball, flv. 


hold person f invisibility 10' radius, non-detection, 
sepia snake sigif slow, suggestion . wdnd wall. Level 4: 
charm monster t confusion * contagion * detect scrying, 
enervation * fear, hallucinatory terrain, ice storm * mi 
nor globe of invulnerability polymorph self, Rary's 
mnemonic enhancer, solid fog t wall office. Level 5: 
cloudkilf cone of cold, extension II. feeble mind, hold 
monster, pass wall, sending, shadow door teleport, wall 
of force * 

Special Possessions: Dagger +2. +3 versus large 
creatures* bracers of defense AC 3* ring of protection 
+ 1 * ring of warmth * wand of fire (22 charges), whirling 
iridescent ioun stone fallows Karasten to be sustained 
without air)* bag of holding {500 lb* capacity). 

Karasten is a Nyrondese mage of some antiquity. 
Chronologically he is hi his 80s but biologically he is 
60 or so* due to potions of longevity and similar magic. 
He is obsessed with myths and legends of the SutoLse 
peoples and has taught himself the Old Suloise tongue 
to further his research. He is something of a recluse 
now, continuing his research mostly through the work 
of his students and pupils. 

Karasten is somewhat forgetful and academically- 
minded* but he plays this up quite deliberately to 
make people think he's less attentive than he actually 
is* Likewise, he uses a staff to support himself when he 
walks to appear more feeble than he actually is. Karas 
ten carefully stage-manages himself to appear less 
potent than he really is. 

Further detail about Karasten is given in Chapter 3* 

If you allow Karasten to join the party as a PC, then 
you should review the information given in Chapter 3 
and present a summary of this to Karasten s player. 


and he believes that some theme or such con 
flict may be linked with the location of one or 
more of the swords* but knows no details* 
if the party has the note (Handout 1)* but 
Mallon doesn't know what or where the Black- 
well Is* Karasten will know* He knows that 
Stalker is another barbarian magical sword. 
Although Mallon is now a party member* he 
wants to keep some secrets to himself* Don't 
disclose unless you must. 


lions. Sometimes your character will enter a 
fugue state* a form of waking half-trance. Your 
DM will tell you when this happens* Likewise, 
the sword may bring dreams and visions from 
time to time* 

Dreamsinger has a deep longing and seeking 
within it. It seeks to join its fellows in a deep 
and ancient magical bond. In the fellowship of 
that bonding, Dreamsinger was made to 
weave the magic that transcended the group 
and it longs to bring all Lhe blades together 
again* Its force and nature will change the per 
sonality of your character subtly through your 
association with the weapon. Your character 
will become somewhat more dreamy* thought 
ful* and contemplative. But your character will 
also increasingly need to bring the magical 
blades together just as Dreamsinger has this 
as its goal. Try to reflect both Lhese changes in 
your role- playing* 


Handout 3 

Your DM will tell you about Dreamsinger's 
known powers* The weapon's powerful empa 
thy gives you the feeling that it has other 
powers and deeper magic within it, but you 
don't know what these are. Yet. 

Dreamsinger is powerfully em pat hie. At 
times* it will influence your thoughts and emo 


30 


Pregenerated Player 
Characters 

HELDEN STORMFIST 

8th-level Human Male Fighter 


Str 17 

Dex 15 

Con 15 

Int 14 

Wis 9 

Cha 16 

Alignment: N hp: 58 

THACO12 AC 2 


Weapon Proficiencies: bastard sword, com 
posite longbow, long sword, spear, two-handed 
sword (specialized). 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: animal lore (14), 
blindfighting (NA), hunting (8). running (9). 
survival - cold climates (15). 

Languages: Cold Tbngue. Common. 

Experience Point Thliy: 177,915 

Special Possessions: TWo-handed sword + 1. 
flametongue, chain mail +2. quiver of 14 
flight arrows + 1: ring of free action. 

Helden is a strong, capable barbarian who is 
used to leadership of any group. Much smarter 
than the average barbarian warrior, Helden is 
also cool-tempered and somewhat inclined to 
caution. He tends to be thoughtful and patient, 
less impulsive than many of his warrior brothers. 

Helden is the eldest son of a minor Fruztii 
chieftain and feels both that leadership is nat 
ural for him. and that he must continually 
prove he is worthy of it. He has fought with 
the men of Ratik against the humanoids of the 
Bone March: Helden's magical sword was 
taken from the hands of a monstrous ogre 
chieftain. 

Helden's major goal at this lime is to under 
take some great adventure, obtain some pow 
erful magic, or battle and overcome some 
great monster. In short, he wishes to perform 
one great heroic deed to establish his reputa 
tion. once and for all, as a worthy first son and 
to make himself finally feel that he is a fit ruler 
and leader. 


BAERN BARRAETH 

7th-level Human Male Fighter 


Str 18/56 

Dex 10 

Con 17 

Int 11 

Wis 14 

Cha 11 

Alignment: CN hp: 62 
THACO 12 AC 4/2 


Weapon Proficiencies: bastard sword (spe 
cialized). battle axe. club, longbow, long 
sword, spear, two-handed sword. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: animal handling 
(13). endurance (17). hunting (13), mountain 
eering (NA). running (11). 

Languages: Cold Tbngue. Common. 

Experience Point Thlly: 91.450 

Special Possessions: Bastard sword + 1, + 3 
vs. regenerating creature s; chain mail +1; 
shield + 1; longbow + 1; potion of extra- 
healing. 

Baern is a hardy man-tough even by bar 
barian standards. He is a skilled mountaineer 
and is used to long cold days and nights hunt 
ing and lighting in the mountains to the north 
of his homeland. He has fought against the 
men of Stonefist for several years and has a 
grudging respect for their toughness as oppo 
nents. 

Baern is the only son of a father crippled by 
the claws of a mountain bear. He has a strange 
ambivalence toward authority and authority 
figures as a result of seeing his father so weak 
ened. On the one hand, he is sometimes very 
subservient to such figures and acts almost 
meekly toward them. Other times, he is 
fiercely independent and stubborn and may 
oppose the word of authority slmpiy because it 
is the word of authority. 

Baern often keeps his own counsel and may 
act independently, but if he gives his word on 
a planned course of action he'll stick with it. 

He is also loyal to his fellows and would never 
abandon a friend to danger. He is distrustful of 
spell casters, because he has a morbid fear 
that they may somehow read or control his 
mind. 


31 



FENESTIR "SWIFTHAND" 
GALANDER 

8th-level Human Female Ranger 

Str 15 

Dex 17 

Con 15 

lot 10 

Wis 14 

Cha 12 

Alignment: NG hp: 56 

THACO13 AC 3 

Weapon Proficiencies: dagger, footman's mace, 
long sword, longbow, spear, short sword. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: endurance (15), 
mountaineering (NA}, survival - hilly and moun 
tainous dimes (10). tracking +2 (16), weather 
sense (13). 

Languages: Cold Tongue, Common, Flan. 

Experience Point Thlly: 231,220 

Special Abilities: Can cast one lst-level Priest 
spell per day (animal or plant spheres), +4 to hit 
giants, Hide in Shadows 54% (27% non-natural 
settings). Move Silently 67% (33% non-naturaJ 
settings), can alter reactions of natural animals 
(PHB p.29). 

Special Possessions: short sword +1. dagg er 
+ 2. studded leather armor +2. potion of tire giant 
strength, jar of Keoghtom's ointment (4 doses). 

Fenestir is a rough, tough, tomboyish young 
woman who has already made a name for herself 
within the ranks of the Fruztli. She has fought in 
the mountain passes of the Griffs in winter, jour 
neyed into Stoneiist and Tenh to fight and wan 
dered far and wide in the barbarian lands. She is 
curious and independent-a true free spirit. 

Fenestir likes a strong leader in any group she 
is with, providing thaL the leader has the brains 
(in addition to strength) to maintain cohesion and 
make his word stick. She prefers not to worry 
about leadership and to do what she does best 
which is scouting and searching and keeping 
watch. She doesn't suffer fools gladly, but is al 
ways happy to have strong fighters around to 
stand shoulder to shoulder with her when com 
bat beckons. 

Fenestir has little time for non-barbarians, be 
lieving their men to be milksops and their 
women to be subservient. She expresses these 
views unambiguously and quite tactlessly when 
she feels like it, and does this sometimes just to 
be mischievous. 


INGRID HASHANDIR 

9th-level Human Female Druidess 
of Obad-Hai 

Str 11 

Dex 15 

Con 15 

Int 10 

Wis 17 

Cha 16 

Alignment: N hp: 47 

THACO16 AC 3 

Weapon Proficiencies: club, scimitar* spear* 
sling. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: direction sense 
(18), healing (15], herbalism (8), rope use (15)* 
weather sense (16). 

Languages: Cold Tongue, Common* Druidic. 

Experience Point Thlly: 336*500, 

Special Abilities: identify plants* natural ani 
mals and pure water, pass through overgrown 
areas at normal rate and leave no trail, immune 
to charm spells cast by woodland creatures* sha- 
pechange to bird* reptile or mammal 3/day* +2 to 
saving throws versus fire and electrical attacks. 

Spell Use: 6 lst-level, 6 2nd-level* 4 3rd-level* 2 
4th-level, and one 5Lh-ievel spell per day. Spheres 
allowed: all, animal, divination (minor), elemen 
tal, healing, plant, weather. 

Special Possessions: Spear +1, shield + 1. ring 
of protection +2 (with normal leather armor), 
potion ofHydng * magical jar which keeps mistle 
toe fresh for up to 12 months. 

Ingrid is a fascinating and rare barbarian. She 
is an albino with platinum-blonde hair, exception 
ally tall at 6' 2", with very slender limbs and 
hands. She has a natural grace and beauty which 
is unforgettable because of the rarity of her ap 
pearance. 

Ingrid loves the wilderness, the purity of 
mountains and ice* rivers and virgin forests. 
She loves to travel wherever her feet take her 
in Lhe north-eastern lands. She is quite a prag 
matic woman* earthy and self-possessed, and 
she has a very practical common sense. She 
can spot Qaws in tactics and strategies quite 
easily* and likes to have the details of plans 
well attended-to. 

Ingrid is an orphan without family ties, but 
within her tribe she is valued for her healing 
skills and kindly nature. 





Special Possessions: broadsword +17 + 2 versus 
magic using and enchanted creatures, cloak of protec 
tion + 2 (leather armor), hoots of levitation, brooch of 
shielding [61 hp remaining). 

No one can remember when Sabraia came from the 
lands of the Ice Barbarians, or liow a slip of a girl with 
an elven father ever got born there. Bui Lhe wild-eyed 
young bard with the heartbreaking voice brought her 
stories and visions to the Frost barbarians and they 
took her to their hearts. Her pipe rendering of the for* 
lorn Flowers of the Forests has brought tears to Lhe 
eyes of barbarians long hardened by battle and death, 
and she has played and sung several times for the King 
himself. 

Sabraia becomes almost possessed when she sings, 
recites, or plays the music dearest to her. She almost 
seems to become figures in Lhe legends, to assume 
their mantles and sorrows, and her performance Is 
breathtaking. The more powerful Lhe legend, the 
deeper Sabraia becomes immersed in it and the more 
inspired she becomes. 

Sabraia's taken name. Star breaker, comes from an 
old Fruztii expression relaLing to the exhalation of 
breath In bitterly cold air. The breath frosts at once 
and tiny snowflakes fall to the ground appearing like 
the breaking of stars. The King once compared Sabra 
ia's ballad voice to the gentleness of breath falling to 
the ground, and in honor of his compliment she 
adopted the name she now carries. 

Sabraia travels as she will through the world, free- 
spirited and dreaming, wishing only to learn more ofleg- 
end, song, magic, and timelessness. Other-worldly and 
strange, she is nonetheless not gullible or foolish. When it 
is necessary, a bard must sing for her supper and Sabraia 
knows how to use her charms and wit. 


9th-level Half-elven Female Bard 

Str 9 

Dex 16 

Con 9 

Int 16 

Wis 13 

Cha 17 

Alignment: CN bp: 32 

THACO 16 AC 2 

Weapon Proficiencies: broadsword, dagger, short 
sword, short bow. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: artistic ability (13), dis 
guise (16), musical instrument-northern pipes (15). 
read/write (17), singing j 17). 

Languages: Cold Tbngtte, Common, Elven. Flan. 
Experience Point Thlly: 119,755 
Special Abilities: Bard skills (CWSO, DN50, PP30, 
RL75J, singing improves combat abilities of friends 
(PHB , pp. 42-43), can modify NPC reactions by up to - 
3 If they fail a save vs. paralyzaiion, 45% chance to 
know some history of an identifiable magic item, 30% 
resistance to sleep and charm spells, finds secret doors 
1 In 6 (2 In 6 if concentrating), 6CF infravision. 

Spell Use: 3 Ist-level, 3 2nd-level. and 2 3rd-level 
Wizard spells per day. 

Spellbook: 1st Level: change self charm person, 
comprehend languages, detect magic , light magic 
missile . read magic , shield. 2nd Level- detect invisibil 
ity, ESR gliiterdusU improved phantasmal force, invisi 
bility: knock . web. 3rd Level-dispel magic, fireball . fly 
hold person. protection from evil 10' rad/us. 


tasma/ force , read magic , sleep , unseen servant. Level 
2 .alter self continual light, ESP log cloud, hypnotic 
pattern , know alignment, mirror image, strength. 
Level 3: dispel magic, fireball , fly. Leomund's tiny hut. 
lightning bolt, slow. Level 4: confusion, fear ; tee storm, 
polymorph self stoneskin, wizard eye. 

Special Possessions: dagger +2, bracers of defense 
AC 5. ring of protection +1, wand of lightning (5 
charges), dust of disappearance [4 pinches). 

Mallon Fer'Asque is a young Nyrondese half-elf who 
is deeply devoted to his tuLor and mentor, Karasten 
Meldraitb. who resides in White Panged Bay. Karasten 
has saved the half-dfs life at least twice and Mallon 
feels a strong debt of loyalty to the old mage. 

Mallon himself Is a little twitchy, rather insecure and 
shy. but he has a charming manner and agreeable 
lea Lures and is generally welUlked. He is rather diffi 
dent, makes nervous ULtle chopping gestures with his 
hands and tension shows in his lined brow and in the 
bunching of muscles at the back of his neck and be 
tween his shoulders. 

Mallon is something of a scholar, enjoying the study 
of old languages and legends: his researches at Karas- 
ten's request have borne some fruit. 


Mallon Fer'Asque 

8th Level Male Half-eiven Wizard 
(Mage) 

Sir 9 

Dex 9 

Con 15 

Int 17 

Wis 11 

Cha 14 

Alignment: N hp: 29 

THACO18 AC 4 

Weapon Proficiencies: dagger, dart. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: ancient languages (17), 
etiquette (14), herbalism [17). read/wrlle (17). spellcraft 
+ 2 [17). 

Languages: Common. Elven, Flan, Nyrondese, 
Experience Point Thlly: 122.725 
Special Abilities: 30% resistant to stccp/charm 
spells, detects secret doors i in 6 [2 in 6 Lf concentrat 
ing), 60' infravision. 

Spell Use: 4 ]st-Levcl. 3 2nd-Levei, 3 3rd-Level. and 
2 4th-Level spells per day, 

Spellbook: 1st level: charm person. color spray, de 
tect magic, feather fall, identify, magic missile . phan 



STUMRED BARDURAN 

6th/7th Level Mountain Dwarf 
Fighter/Thief 


Str 16 

Dex 17 

Con 16 

Int 9 

Wis 9 

Cha 8 

Alignment: N hp: 42 

THACO 14 AC 3 


Weapon Proficiencies: battle axe, crossbow, 
dagger, short sword, war hammer. 

Non-weapon Proficiencies: blindftghting 
(NA). endurance (16). jumping (16). mountain 
eering (NA), 

Languages: Common. Dwarven, Gnome. 

Experience Point ThUy: 55.255 (per class). 

Special Abilities: Thief skills (PP35, OL80. 
FRT70, MS35, HS25, DN65, CW70. RL15). 
triple damage on backstab. racial under 
ground detection abilities (PHB. p.21), +4 
saves versus magic and poison, + 1 to hit ver 
sus ores and goblins (and half-ores and hob 
goblins), ogres, trolls, ogre magi, giants and 
titans attack at -4 on hit rolls, 60' infravision. 

Special Possessions: battle axe + 1, dagger 
+1. dwarf-sized leather armor +2, gauntlets of 


Stumred is a mountain dwarf from Ratik. He 
is more outgoing and sociable than many of 
his people, despite his poor Charisma, and he 
also knows Helden from previous trips to 
gether. He likes and trusts the honest barbar 
ian leader. 

Stumred has seen several winters of fighting 
with the Frost Barbarians down in the Bone 
March, but he is also knowledgeable about the 
Griff mountains and knows his way about the 
passes and valleys to the west of the Frost Bar 
barian lands. He's a very competent, careful 
adventurer and mountaineer and he hates 
taking undue risks. 

Stumred is nobody's fool when it comes to 
travelling. He likes Lo get well-organized with 
supplies and resources and he likes attending 
to detail. He's almost a quartermaster for any 
adventuring group. Of course, his magical bag 
gives him a distinct advantage in this respect. 

Stumred's clan of dwarves lives to the west 
of the Timberway forest, thus he and his peo 
ple are very familiar with the Fruztii. Although 
he doesn't have Cold Tbngue listed as a profi 
ciency, the DM may allow him to pick up the 
gist of a conversation if he makes a successful 
Intelligence check (but only the gist thereof). 


dexterity, bag of holding (1.500 lb. capacity). 





Hanna Blackhand, 6th Level Halfling Fe 
male Rogue: AC 2 (halfling-sized leather ar 
mor +2); MV 6; hp 27: Str 11, Dex 18. Con 15. 
Int 15. Wis 12. Cha 10: #AT 1: Dmg ld6+l 
[shortsword +1). triple backstab damage: 
Alignment CE; THACO 18 (14 on backstab). 
Thief skills (PP70. OL60. FRT45, MS70. HS70. 
DN30. CW55. RL05). Magic:/eather armor +2. 
short sword + 1, ring of blinking, dust of disap 
pearance (2 pinches). Hanna has various belt 
pouches and pockets with a total of 52 pp and 
small jewelry trinkets worth 600 gp. She also 
has a secret compartment in each boot heel 
(Intelligence check at -4 to detect this on a 
search), each of which contains one 1.000 gp 
gem. 

Poison; Hanna has a flask with 4 applica 
tions of insinuative Class A blade venom (10- 
30 minutes onset time, save vs. poison or take 
15 hp of damage). Each dose can be applied in 
2 rounds and is active for 1 turn or until ld2 
blows have been struck in melee, after which 
time the poison has either evaporated or been 
wiped from the blade through physical con 
tact. 


Non-Player Characters 
Mulsever's Bandit Gang 


Igrin Mulsever is a tall and powerfully-built, 
dark-haired man with a hectoring voice and 
contemptuous manner. He is half-psychotic in 
battle, swearing foul oaths at his enemy. His 
paramour. Anneka, is altogether smarter but 
no less evil: she usually attempts to strike at 
easy targets: mages, rogues and the like. The 
three other warriors are a surly, hateful bunch 
who serve Igrin out of fear and because the 
pickings have been good to date. Last, Hanna 
the rogue hangs around because of good pick 
ings, especially because the others seem to be 
too stupid to notice that she "sets aside" a few 
extra coins for herself when loot is divided up. 


Igrin Mulselver, 7th Level Human Male 
Bandit Fighter: AC 0: MV 9: hp 60; Str 17, 
Dex 16, Con 16, Ini 9, Wis 13, Cha 13: #AT 3/ 
2; Dmg ld8*4 [magical long sword +1, also 
weapon specialized and Strength bonus): 
Alignment CE; THACO 13(11 with long 
sword). Magic: shield + 1 (normal plate armor). 
long sword + 1, potion of extra-healing* Igrin 
has 37 gp and 9 pp in a pouch, a thick gold 
neckchain worth 150 gp. and a platinum wrist 
bracer set with small moonstones worth 800 


Bandits (3 4th Level Human Male Bandit 
Fighters): AC 3 (chain mail, shields. Dexterity 
bonus); MV 9: hp 17. 19, 25, 29: #AT 1: Dmg 
ld8 + 1 (long sword and Strength bonus] or 
IdG (longbows): Alignment CE (2), NE (2); 
THACO 16, Each bandit has 3d 10 gp and Id 10 
pp in a pouch. 


Anneka Folksjan, 5th Level Human Fe 
male Bandit Fighter: AC - 2 (plate mail and 
shield): MV 9 (24 on horseback and see magic 
items below); hp 36: Str 13, Dex 18, Con 11, 
Int 14, Wis 8. Cha 13: #AT 1; Dmg ld8+ 1 [bas 
tard sword + 1 used one-handed against non- 
large enemies): Alignment CN; THACO 16, 
Magic: bastard sword + 1, necklace of missiles 
(one 7HD and one 3HD missile remaining), 
potion of hiil giant strength. horseshoes of a 
zephyr on the light warhorse, Anneka has jew 
elry (bracelet, two small rings, gold-threaded 
silk headband) worth a total of 700 gp. 


Animals: Each of the fighters has a light war- 
horse: AC 7: MV 24: HD 2; hp 12 each; #AT 2: 
Dmg Id4/ld4; Alignment N; THACO 19; SZ L; 
ML 6. Igrins horse has saddlebags containing 
315 sp, 190 gp and 150 pp. Other horses have 
saddlebags with mundane equipment (includ 
ing food, ropes, blankets, etc,), so PCs can pos 
sibly replenish equipment stocks here as the 
DM determines. Hanna has a riding pony: AC 
7: MV 12;HD i + 1: hp 9: *AT 1: Dmg ld3; 
Alignment N: THACO 19; SZ L: ML 7. 


35 




long sword + 1, lavender ioun stone (absorbs 
16 spell levels from incoming spells up to 4th 
level), potion of extra-healing, Tbsti is vain 
and has much personal jewelry worth a total 
of 1125 gp. 


The Ice Barbarians 

The leader. Gundar Hjortensen, is a 6' 4" 
white-haired bear of a man, massively built, 
with a long moustache and crooked teelh. 
Tosti. the leader of his men, is a tough and 
wiry woman with page-boy cut platinum 
blonde hair and strikingly pale skin, her plate 
mail padded with fine ermine. Otar the priest 
has an unusual physical characteristic: His 
blue eyes are slightly clouded and if he tries to 
target a spell, he is 10% likely to be unable to 
do so and misdirect the spell(effects as the DM 
decides). He also has a - 1 penalty to all hit 
rolls (included in the stats below). He is an 
ugly man. slightly bandy-legged and buck 
toothed. Rolf the mage is a thin, cadaverous 
creature with a grey sheen to his skin. He 
walks with a stoop and has an awful habit of 
wiping his nose across his wrist. The four 
fighting men are well-trained, disciplined, and 
loyal. The group is completed, by a huge 
winter wolf with 35 hit points which is fero 
ciously loyal to Gundar. since he raised it from 
being a mere cub. 

This group is very dangerous indeed. Chap 
ter 2 gives detailed instructions for making tlie 
most of them tactically. 


Otar Erlendssen, 5 th Level Human Male 
Priest of Ralishaz: AC 4: MV 12; hp 31; Str 
11. Dex 12, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 17.Cha 12: 

#AT 1: Dmg ld6+ 1 (footman's mace); Align 
ment CE: THACO 19. Spells: bless. cure light 
wounds x 2, endure heat, sanctuary'; 
barkskin, resist cold, silence 15' radius x 2, 
withdraw; dispel magic, prayer. Magic: incense 
of meditation (2 blocks in a small wooden 
box), jar of Keoghtom's ointment (3 applica 
tions remaining). Otar carries no personal trea 
sure. 


Rolf Harkennen, 6th Level Human Male 
Mage: AC 8 (2 or better with shield spell): MV 
12 FI 15 (cloak of the bat); hp 17: Str 10, Dex 
9. Con 9. Int 17. Wis 17, Cha 7; #AT I: Dmg 
ld4+1 ( dagger + 1); Alignment NE: THACO 
19. Spells: magic missile x2. 3 missiles per 
spell), protection from good, shield : invisibility, 
mirror image: dispel magic, fireball. Magic: 
cloak of the bat. dagger +1. wand of magic 
missiles (16 charges), scroll of 2 spells (stink 
ing cloud, massmorph). scroll of 3 spells (ex 
tension /, stoneskin. Infravision). Rolf has a 
silver neekehain with a small ruby and blood 
stone pendant worth 1000 gp. 


Gundar Hjortensen, 8th Level Human 
Male Fighter: AC -2: MV 16 (boots of speed, 
allowing for encumbrance): hp 61; Str 18/84, 
Dex 17. Con 15. Int 9. Wis 16. Cha 14; #AT 3/ 
2; Dmg 2d4 + 7 (bastard sword + 1 , weapon 
specialized, strength bonus): Alignment CE: 
THACO 11 (9 with magical bastard sword). 
Magic: chain mail +2, boots of speed, bastard 
sword + 1, longbow + 1. ring of protection + 1, 
potion of invulnerability. Gundar has a splen 
did pair of platinum arm bracers set with orna 
mental gems worth 2,500 gp and gold 
bracelets worth 400 gp. 

Tbsti Thordor, 6th Level Human Female 
Fighter: AC 0: MV 9; hp 40; Str 17. Dex 11. 
Con 15, Int 15. Wis 15. Cha 15; MT X: Dmg 
ld8+2 (longsword + 1); Alignment NE: 
THAC014. Magic: piafe mail + 1. shield + 1. 


Barbarian 4th Level Fighters (4): AC4 

(chain mail and shield): MV 9: hp 25 each: #AT 
1; Dmg ld8 (long swords) or ld6 (longbows); 
Alignment CE (2), NE, CN; THACO 17. Fighter 
#1 has a potion of extra-healing. Fighter §2 
has 17 Dexterity for AC 1 (and THACO 15 with 
missiles). Fighter #3 has 16 Con for 33 hp. 
Fighter M has a ring of tire resistance, and 
also carries a pouch with coins for any neces 
sary travelling funds-100 gp and 400 pp. 


36 



Planned Encounters 

There are four planned encounters, one of 
which is a stiff combat challenge, another a 
simple combat allowing the PCs to gain infor 
mation and resources, and two of which are 
non-combat encounters. Again, these should 
be used during the travel to Garek EnkdaL 

Encounter 1. The Frost Barbarians 

This is simply an encounter with some of 
the PCs' own people (assuming the PCs are 
Frost Barbarians). A small Fruztii group is 
inching along the foothills of the Griff Moun 
tains, heading for Rookroost There are 12 of 
these barbarians, each a warrior oflevel 3-8 
(d6 +2). They are wary of the PCs at first, but if 
they are approached politely and greeted well, 
their leader. Kendric Perhanssen, will be 
friendly and make an offer of sharing food and 
camp for the night. 

These barbarians won't say much about 
what they are doing because they are actually 
taking money to Rookroost to pay for weap 
onry (exactly what the PCs have done). They 
don't make over-nosy and tactless inquiries 
about the actions of the PCs either. They bring 
some news from home which isn't good. There 
have been reverses in the east: a Stonefist 
force from Kelten inflicted a severe defeat on 
one group of Frost Barbarians a couple of 
weeks ago. They then proceeded to destroy the 
border community of Ranskine, Pick one PC at 
random and inform the player of that PC that 
he had relatives living there who were slain- 
the whole village was wiped out. Three war 
ships were lost aiding the men of Rafik in a 
fruitless coastal assault just south of the 
Loft wood. Furthermore, Snow Barbarians 
have become increasingly arrogant about their 
role in directing overall barbarian operations 
and belittling the Fruztii. 

This encounter is designed to make the PCs 
more dedicated to their quest-their people 
need the inspiration of the Blades of Corusk. 

Encounter 2, The Savage Fist 

The men of Stonefist are murderous, savage 
bandits. The roaming and pillaging units 
known as Fists threaten all who travel through 
their land. The PCs are about to find this out. 


They're very unlucky because the leader of 
this Fist is a high-level priest of Erythnul who 
is returning from fighting against barbarians 
to the east. It is he who masterminded the 
destruction of Ranskine. He has a force of 20 
men mounted on medium war horses, four 
sergeants and 16 cavalrymen, and a magical 
goat of travail on hand. Statistics are given for 
these enemies, followed by notes on their tac 
tics. 

Sergeants (4th Level Fighters): AC 2 

(plate mail, dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 30 
each; STR 17; 1; Dmg 2d4 +3 (bastard 

sword, weapon specialization. Strength bonus) 
or ld6 (spear); AL CE (2), NE (2): THACO 15 
(16 with spears, including dexterity bonus). 
Magic: § 1 has a bastard sword + 1 for THACO 
14 and Dmg 2d4 + 4; #2 has a ring of protec 
tion + 1: #3 has a potion of extra-healing ; #4 
has no magic. 

Cavalrymen (16 2nd Level Fighters): AC 

5 (chain mail); MV 12; hp il each: STR 17: 

0KT 1 at +2; Dmg ld8 + 3 (long swords, 
weapon specialization. Strength bonus) or ld6 
(spears): AL CE (7), NE (4), LE (1), CN (4): 
THACO 18. 

Bamalr Mandarek, Priest (12th Level) of 
Erythnul: AC -3 [plate mail +3. Dexterity 
bonus); MV 12: hp 71: Str 16, Dex 17. Con'16. 
Int 10, Wis 18, Cha 4; #AT 2; Dmg ld6 + 5/ 
ld6 + 5 [magical mace -see below); AL CE: 
THACO 14 (11 with mace). Spells: bless *2, 
command *2, endure heat/cold, magical 
stone, protection from good; aid , barkskin. 
chant hold person x 2, resist cold , withdraw; 
animate dead , cause blindness, dispel magic 
x 2, prayer x 2: cloak of bravery x 2, cloak of 
fear, free action; flame strike x 2; conjure ani 
mals. word of recall* Magic: CE aligned mace 
of speed +3 (double attacks at +3), plate mail 
+ 3. ring of fire resistance , scroll of 2 spells 
(dispel magic, word of recall, at 12th level), 
scroll of 3 spells (animate dead , cloak of fear 
prayer ), Bamair wears a thick red silk-lined 
rusty-colored cloak (worth 800 gp] and wears a 
thick gold and silver bracelet set with moon 
stones and a ruby worth 6000 gp. 




The tactics of this group are fairly simple 
and give the PCs just one real chance of avoid 
ing major damage. The riders approach to 
within 100 yards of the PCs, where Bamair 
casts a prayer spell. They then ride to within 
60 yards of the PCs, shouting at them to sur 
render their goods. Bamair is arrogant and will 
under-rate the PCs. Believing that one demon 
stration of his power will do the trick, he es 
chews any further protective spellcasting and 
dumps a flame strike centered on the toughest 
looking fighter in the PC party The sergeants 
and cavalrymen then raise their spears and 
watt for the PCs to surrender. 

If the players state that their PCs are going 
to attack (e.g., with spells), they gain a + 1 
bonus to initiative this round since the Fist 
expects them to surrender. If the players state 
that their PCs are going to attack while feign 
ing surrender, they will gain a +3 bonus to 
initiative this round. They need to get in some 
hefty magical shots here, and a defensive spell 
such as a wall of fire to keep the horsemen at 
bay could be vital in buying the PCs time to 
cast protective spells and prepare for battle. 

The horsemen will throw their spears at the 


PCs, then dismount (assume they all have the 
Riding-land-based proficiency) and fight with 
the swords. Bamair first looses his goat of tra 
vail [see DiVfG, p. 168) to charge and then uses 
his conjure animals spell. This works slightly 
unusually since the man is a priest of Ery- 
thnul, being more akin to a monster summon 
ing variant: it summons three copper trolls 
(see Monster Statistics Chart), copper 
skinned trolls with a lower AC than normal. 
Bamair then em ploys slay living against any 
one trying to melee him, and then cloak of fear 
and free action before dismounting and wad 
ing into melee with his dreadful stone-headed 
mace. 

The ordinary cavalrymen have a morale of 
14, the sergeants a morale of 16, but subtract 
6 from these numbers if Bamair dies or leaves 
the scene. Bamair T s tactical decision to flee [he 
has word of recall as a memorized spell and on 
a scroll, and has a safe haven in Erythnul's 
temple in Kelten) will be based solely on his 
own personal safety. If reduced to 15 hit points 
or less, he seeks to escape. 

Bamair's Mace: This is an evil, vile thing, a 





&wARf massacRe 


yasCs 


£>WARf 

elevation (heiqht 
above valley level) 


explains Lelepathically that it was the familiar 
of an elven mage who was slain by giants and 
it was left for dead. If asked the mage's name, 
it replies "Kalendrin Myrshander" Malion and 
Karasten will both vaguely recall him as being 
indeed that of an elven mage, possibly from 
Nyrond (the little creature confirms this de 
tail). Use of tracking may lead the PCs to the 
ambush area, but won't enable them to track 
the by now far-distant giants. 

The pseudodragon, whose name is Keldris. 
will attach himself to a wizard who shows him 
kindness and invites him to become a com 
panion. The little creature has a personality of 
his own, though, so you should consider rum 
ning him as an NPC. Keldris is curious and 
fascinated by gems, which he loves to play 
with using his paws. He also loves to romp and 
sing and have his tummy rubbed (he rolls over 
onto his back playfully to invite this), and he is 
distinctly hyperactive at times. He confers the 
usual advantage to his master when in contact 
with him (35% magic resistance). He has a 
disconcerting habit of licking his master's ears 
periodically. 

This encounter gives a further reward to a 


stone-headed mace striking twice per round 
and heavily bloodstained. Any creature of 
good alignment grasping it suffers 2d6 points 
of damage per round in contact with it. Any 
neutral-aligned creature suffers ld6 points of 
damage per round for such contact. 


Encounter 3. Getting A Little 
Familiar 

This encounter can be used when the PCs 
are making camp or resting up. The PCs hear 
a slithering noise, as if an animal were crawl 
ing over the ground (whether rock or grass), 
The sound is easily located and if the PCs in 
vestigate they find a badly hurt pseudodragon 
trying desperately to haul itself along the 
ground. It is very feeble and frightened and 
communicates extreme distress to a wizard in 
the party, whom it will latch onto as a compan 
ion, Don't pick Karasten for this role if he is in 
the party; "reward" a junior spellcaster. 

The pseudodragon has 1 hit point and needs 
curing or it will die in ld6 hours. Use of a spell 
or the healing proficiency will stabilize it s con 
dition (it has a maximum of 15 hit points). It 


39 




PC who isn't going to be a beneficiary of one of 
the Blades of Corusk by evening up rewards 
within the party. 

Option: Pseudodragons are curious little crea 
tures with magpie minds* Keldris might know 
a scrap of information about Garel Enkdal 
which he reveals off-handedly later in the ad 
venture. if asked why he didn't tell the PCs 
before he says. "Weii, you didn't ask, did 
you?*'. When you have read Chapter 4. con 
sider what information Keldris might know. 

He shouldn't know anything very detailed, 
just a tidbit which will help the PCs. 


to have up to 50 gp worth of such equipment 
each* After this, the PCs will gently be asked 
to start paying (which may mean bartering, at 
your discretion). 

From here, the PCs are ready to seek the 
third Blade in the ore city. The vastness of this 
place, and how the PCs are going to handle it, 
form the remainder of this adventure. 


Information about Ores: If the dwarves 
are asked about the ores and their activities 
they can give some basic information. The 
orcish city is packed with ores. Ore warbands 
come out periodically to hunt herd animals 
and anything else the ores can get to eat. 
There is only one large tribe, the Bloodied 
Blade, within the city complex, and therefore 
no inter-tribal rivalries which can be exploited 


Encounter 4. Dwarf Massacre 

This should be placed close to Garel Enkdal, 
not more than 20 miles away. 

Map 8 shows the tactical set-up, A be 
leaguered group of 15 dwarves is pinned down 
by a group of 45 ores taking crossbow shots at 
them. The ores are led by two subchiefs (see 
Monster Summary Chart). The dwarves 
have crossbows out, but they are badly out 
numbered and it's only a matter of time before 
they are massacred. 

Assisting the dwarves should be child's play 
for the PCs. This encounter allows the PCs two 
important options: 

Capture and Interrogate: Capturing some 
ores here will enable the PCs to interrogate 
them about entrances to Garel Enkdal as 
noted earlier. The PCs can even take orcish 
gear and goods into the bargain if they want to 
try the disguise tactic at some stage. 

Re-equipping: The dwarves will be very 
grateful for their rescue. They are from a clan 
of mountain dwarves, the Mergrund clan, and 
they have a small underground village not too 
far away (marked on the large fold-out map). 
They will certainly offer the PCs all the hospi 
tality they can. 

The dwarves have no special members, save 
for a chieftain who is a 7th level fighter, and 
they cannot assist directly in attacking the 
ores. There are some 120 dwarves in the clan 
and many thousands of ores. The dwarves are 
not suicidal. But they will want to give the PCs 
alt the help they can. This can take practical 
forms-food, ropes, waterskins, brandy for 
cold nights, and basic equipment. Allow PCs 


Dwarf PC; If there is a dwarf PC in the party 
(such as Stumred In the group of pregenerated 
PCs), then he will get a personal audience with 
the chieftain, Garndred Glim doner. Garndred 
first gives the dwarf PC a gift, a potion of extra- 
healing which he says is his personal gift for 
having saved the lives of so many of his peo 
ple. The chieftain makes it plain that this is a 
gift from dwarf to dwarf and that this potion 
shouldn't be wasted on mere humans (or 
pointy-ears, etc.). If there is more than one 
dwarf PC, then the potion should be used by 
the one most in need of it at a critical time, 
Garndred also imparts some information to 
the dwarf PC. There is a magical weapon or 
dwarven manufacture somewhere within 
Garek EnkdaL While Garndred is not certain 
exactly where it is located, he believes it to be 
close by an obelisk or needle of distinctive 
appearance-made of black rock or marble-it 
cannot be mistaken for anything else. 

Garndred asks the dwarf PC to recover the 
weapon 'Tor the dwarven people " Garndred 
makes it plain he. and his clan, have no claim 
on the weapon and he wishes the dwarf PC to 
keep it if he is strong enough to recover it. The 
obelisk is location #21 within Garel Enkdal 
(see next chapter for details). 


40 



Chapter 4. City of the 
Ore Horde 

The task for the PCs is terribly simple. They 
have to walk into a city of some 25,000 ores 
pick up a sword, the location of which is un 
known to them, and walk off with it. Clearly, 
this is going to take some organizing to be a 
success. The information in this lengthy chap 
ter is likewise organized into sections which 
will make the adventure within the city much 
easier for you to run. 

First, there is the matter of How to Find 
The City; This shouldn't be too tricky once 
the PCs are in the right area of mountains. 
However, surveillance and scrying can bring 
some important rewards for the PCs and help 
them infiltrate the city more easily. 

Second, there is a Location Guide to the 
ore city. The PCs may have to make detours, 
test runs, and more to locate the sword 
Stalker. The DM needs to know exactly what is 
where within this underground complex. This 
is effectively a guide of the city and caverns. 

Third, there is Getting to The Sword. The 
PCs will have to find out exactly where the 
sword is, or at least form an idea of where it 
might be. Magical help from Dreamsinger may 
be necessary to give them the final pointer to 
this location. Then the PCs have to get to the 
temple of Gruumsh, the orcish god of battle, 
within the city. This means getting past thou- 
sands of ores in a spread of caverns and pas 
sages. The logistics and tactics of this offer the 
PCs lots of options (although gross violence is 
likely to be spectacularly unsuccessful), which 
are exhaustively reviewed here. 

Finally, there is The Temple and the 
Blackwell, the detail of the location in which 
Stalker is to be found. Here, spelleasting ene 
mies and worse await the PCs. 

Last but not least, there is the minor matter 
of getting out of Garel Enkdal with the sword, 
getting away from the locale, and then con 
cluding the adventure. 

Dreamsinger's Visions 

T\vo of these should be staged during this 
part of the adventure, which will be very diffi 
cult for you. It s important not to be heavy 


handed or to make the PCs think that the 
inspirations and actions of this magical 
weapon will do their job for them. However, 
here are the two visions which will be placed 
in the mind of the sword wielder. These are 
fully described here because they may be of 
major Importance. 

The Song of Sleeping (Dream 
Handout 9) 

Dreamsinger implants an image of the 
dreamer walking through a great cavern with 
ores rushing toward him or her. As they close 
in, they foil to the ground, magically sleeping. 
There is an eerie, echoing song in the air 
which magically affects the ores. 

However, there is a strange effect at the edge 
of the dreamer's visual field: the color green 
predominates and the edge of vision is fuzzy, 
distorted, and impossible to focus on. The 
dreamer also knows, intuitively, that he/she is 
headed into darkness and a dangerous, evil 
place where this sleep induction will not be 
effective. Dreamsinger and Greens wathe will 
combine here to produce a Transcendent Prop 
erty of magical s/eep (see the Appendix) at 
the climax of this adventure-this is discussed 
later in this chapter. 


This is an amplification of a vision presented 
earlier. The dreamer knows that the sword is 
plunged into blackness. This is the dominant, 
recurring image and sensation-bitter cold 
and blackness. There is also a single image of 
a tall black structure like a pillar which the 
dreamer senses may be close to the sword. 

DM Note: this identifies the Black Obelisk in 
the cavern of the Tfemple, where the sword is 
located, A dwarf PC may be able to add some 
more information if he talked to the dwarf 
chieftain earlier, (see Chapter 3). 

Finding Garel Enkdal 

This can be done automatically if the PCs 
manage to interrogate an ore prisoner. The ore 
will claim that the only entrance is at location 
#1 on the large map (Map 9 on the fold-out 


The Sword in the Blackness 
(Dream handout 10) 


41 


mapsheet), Guards are stronger here and the 
ore wants to land the PCs in trouble. 

Finding an entrance to the city can also be 
done automatically if the PCs get to talk to the 
dwarves (Encounter 5 in Chapter 3). The 
dwarves know of both entrances at # 1 and #6. 
and tell the PCs that both are heavily guarded. 

Both entrances are in the side of a forbidding 
mountain which rises more than 600' above 
its neighbors, and which is visible up to 25 
miles away. 

If the PCs haven't managed to interrogate 
either ores or dwarves, they wilt have to blun 
der on an entrance when they get into the 
right general area (the hex the entrance is 
marked on in the large fold-out map). For each 
half-day of searching in the hex, allow the 
party an Intelligence check (take their average 
Intelligence score). If they make the check, 
they find an entrance [t 1 or #6, choose at ran 
dom), If they fail, they have to keep trying, if 
they use some smart tactic, like using a speak 
with animals spell to interrogate a bird which 
might know the area (or better still, a carni 
vore which eats ores!), add a bonus to this 
check, 

"'Finding an entrance" means that the PCs 
are able to see an entrance passage from some 
distance away-at least 200-300 yards away If 
they take special precautions such as magical 
invisibility ; they increase their chances for not 
alerting the guards. Such issues are dealt with 
in the section on Getting to The Sword. 


There are some 25,000 ores in the city. How 
ever, they're not all trained fighters and war 
riors, Some are hunters, some are laborers, 
some are animal tenders, some are farmers (of 
a sort), and so on. This isn't to say that these 
other ores aren't capable of fighting, (they cer 
tainly are), but they're referred to below as 
"ordinary ores" to distinguish them from the 
leaner, fitter* fighting ores (see also the Mon 
ster Statistics Chart), The exact numbers of 
such ordinary ores present in locations are not 
usually specified. Likewise, fighting ores 
aren't totally different from their brethren. 


The resources of an underground city are 
scarce enough that any fighting ore has to 
pitch in and help with finding food* repairing 
buildings, making weapons, and the like, 

However, some ores have better combat abil 
ity and morale than others, and this is re 
flected in a summary statistic, the Encounter 
Strength. This is a measure of how tough it is 
to deal with the ores in a location (and it ap 
plies both to combat and attempts to dupe, 
deceive, browbeat* or otherwise get past 
them). Exactly how the ES score works is 
dealt with later in this chapter. It is recorded 
on Map 9 and also on the location guide to the 
city later in this chapter* 

Encounter Strength (ES) ratings are given 
in situations where some kind of averaging 
and overall group strength is a useful way of 
dealing with enemies. For tougher creatures 
(ogres, etc.), and special cases, such an ap 
proximation is too simplistic and encounters 
should be resolved using standard game me 
chanics. 

Finally* note that the ores here are all mem 
bers of the Bloodied Blade tribe. There are no 
major in ter-tribe rivalries and hatreds the PCs 
can exploit. 

Ore Statistics and Details 

Stats for various ores can be found on the 
Monster Statistics Chart. These include 
stats for standard fighting ores, non-warriors, 
sergeants, and members of the Phalanx (the 
most powerful lighting ores). There are also 
standard stats for orog and low-level orcish 
speilcasters, (but the spells of the latter will be 
specified in the main text). These "variants" 
will be noted as such in the text. 

In the text here, individual stats will be 
found for exceptional ores only, such as higher 
level speilcasters, and the ore chieftain and his 
personal bodyguard. 

Note that all orcish shamans have their left 
eyes plucked out* and usually the left eye 
socket covered by a patch of lizard skin 
leather, in the service of the one-eyed orcish 
god Gruumsh. 

Exact details of every last ores' armor and 
weapons aren't necessary here. The Monster 
Statistics Chart gives adequate summary 
information. However, important points-such 
as possession of crossbows allowing missile 


Guide lb Garek Enkdal 

Population and Encounter 
Strengths 




fire-will be noted. 

The PCs aren't likely to have the time to 
stop and loot silver and copper from overcome 
ores* but if they are mercenary characters use 
standard random treasure determinations. 
However* the PCs may want to grab some 
equipment items ("Can we get a bunch of 
ropes off these guards we just killed?"). Mun 
dane Rems (rope* knives, rather horrid food* a 
waterskin or two, simple and crude utensils) 
should be retrievable by the PCs. But the ores 
don't have anything rare or unusual* 


a magical sphere with a segmented circumfer 
ence had been expanded from a central point. 
The walls have weird, fluted* broad swathes of 
rock sweeping down from ceiling to floor* Sta 
lactite formations hanging from the ceiling are 
also very unusual, both for shape (spirals and 
coils are common here) and color [pink and 
blue are common). The PCs won't know the 
reasons for all this, but it should keep them 
alert and wondering about the place. 

For the purposes of combat, missile fire, fly 
spells, and the like, passages have a ceiling 
height of 10 +d 10 feet. Caverns have an aver 
age height of 30 + 2d 10 feet, but this varies 
from place to place within a cavern. The cen 
tral city cavern {#14] has an average ceiling 
height of 110' rising to some 200' in the mid 
dle of the cavern. 


Buildings and Description 

The details of city buildings* save tor the 
Tfemple* are unimportant. The PCs are not 
going to be dealing with the quest by search 
ing through orcish homes on an individual 
basis and the restriction of infravision use 
doesn't allow them to get a grand panoramic 
vision anyway* However, you may want at 
some stage to describe the basic nature of orc 
ish dwellings to the PCs, When they first come 
upon one of the major caverns read or para 
phrase the following to them: 


Visual Restrictions 

It's important to remember that the range of 
infravision is 60* and Lhai almost all of Garel 
EnkdaTs caverns and passages are unlit. The 
ores don't use light because torches consume 
too much air and the darkness gives them an 
advantage over non-infravision using crea 
tures. This obviously affects how much PCs 
can see and take in of the scenes which greet 
them. If they are forced to use a visible light 
source, matters may get very tricky for them 
(see below). 

Don't forget that the range limit applies to 
ores every bit as much as it applies to the PCs. 
in the great central city cavern, a military 
leader at the gates before the Temple complex 
won't be able to look down the central road 
way and see what the PCs are doing at the far 
end (unless they're using light sources, of 
course). The responses of ores will also be af 
fected by the restricted range of their vision. 


Looking into the gloom of the caverns* 
you see some ramshackle buildings of stone 
and rock. They are of varied size and hap 
hazardly constructed-some don't have a 
roof, some lean at awkward angles, and 
some have holes in their walls which have 
been filled with mud and small stones* 
There are no doors or glass windows, only 
open spaces in the walls. Young ores play 
outside while older ones kick them out of 
the way. Litter* refuse* and filth are strewn 
around outside most of the crude dwellings. 


Buildings which are unusual in the central 
cavern (#14) are noted in the text and on Map 
9. The Temple beyond the gate is also given 
individual detailing in The Ttemple and the 
Blackwell. 


Location Guide 


1* Guarded Entrance 

This is the main entrance passage to the 
city. There is always a force of 100 vigilant 
ores on duty here. They are equipped with a 
variety of hand weapons and half of them also 
possess crossbows. Of the 100, 10 are ser 
geants (total ES of 4 here). There are also 5 1st 
level shamans with Wisdom scores of 14 or 
better (spells: command x 2, cure light 


General Features 

The cavern system in which Garel Enkdal is 
built is unusual. It is clear [to a dwarf, for ex 
ample) that the system is basically a large set 
of limestone caves. However, the central ca 
vern (#14) is clearly not entirely of natural ori 
gin* The walls and vaulted ceiling appear as if 


43 



wounds x 3). The ores on watch are changed 
every 4 hours from barracks in location #3. 
The ores usually have a brazier here to ward 
off the cold of the mountain winds, burning 
more or less anything they can get for fuel 
{usually lizard dung], Tbasting rats on skewers 
is a popular pastime for the guards. 

A hunting party of 2d 10 + 10 fighting ores 
leaves from this entrance every ld6 hours and 
likewise another returns to Garel Enkdal at 
similar time intervals. The hunters bring back 
mountain goats, wolves, deer, and similar fare. 
Each day, ld2 special hunting parties set 
forth- each party is comprised of 3d 10+ 20 
fighting ores, 2d4 sergeants, ld3 members of 
the Phalanx, and ld4 1st level shamans 
(spells: cure light wounds in all cases), plus 
one 3rd level shaman leader (spells: com 
mand , cure light wounds , chant). Such a party 
is setting off on an aspic hunt and is heavily 
armed {including unusual weapons such as 
pikes in the group). Likewise, a party of this 
type returns with the same frequency, usually 
with a few less ores present, but also with one 
or two aspic drone corpses and some baskets 
of juicy larvae to eat. One note is that all mem 
bers of all hunting parties have crossbows and 
10% will have unusual items such as nets. 

The PCs can get within 120 yards of the en 
trance without being spotted, assuming that 
they take sensible precautions against being 
spotted. Invisihie characters can get to within 
30 yards without any chance of being heard or 
detected unless they dislodge a stone, etc. 
Closer than 120 yards (for non-in visible char 
acters), make a Wisdom check for the lead PC 
every 20 yards closer the party gets. A suc 
cessful check means the PC managed to be 
subtle and smart enough to avoid giving the 
guards any cues to his presence, if a PC has a 
special ability such as Move Silently, use the 
skill value for this instead if it is higher. Add a 
+ 20 bonus to the ability test here. 

However, if they are closer than 60 yards the 
PCs will automatically alert Hie guards unless 
they are all invisible ; there just isn't enough 
cover here. This is the closest the PCs can get 
with any chance of being unseen. 

2. Watch Passage 

Along this lengthy passageway, members of 
the watch head to and from the entrance. If 
the PCs take the time to do surveillance out 


side, they can easily time their arrival here 
when there are no watch parties in transit. 
Otherwise, there's a straight 5% chance they 
get unlucky and meet 100 ores including 10 
sergeants (ES 4) and 5 1st level shamans 
(spells as above). Half of this party will have 
crossbows in addition to standard hand weap 
ons. 

If there isn't a watch party patrolling here, 
there will be a single meeting with a group of 
20 fighting ores at some randomly determined 
point along the passage (ES 1). 

3- Barracks Cavern 

This cavern houses a fairly sizeable group of 
fighting ores in a barracks building as shown 
on Map 9. There are also a fair number of or 
dinary ores occupying standard dwellings 
here. 

At the entrance to this cavern (facing #2) a 
group of 40 ores is stationed, led by 5 ser 
geants (ES 2). If this group is attacked or ren 
dered hostile in an encounter, an alarm will be 
raised and fighting ores begin to appear from 
the barracks. The barracks hold a total of 800 
such fighting ores who appear at a rate of 40 
per round, armed and armored (ES 2 per 
group of 40. Some 5% will be sergeants). 

There are 100 crossbows available for these 
ores. 

At the opposite end of the cavern, there is 
another group of 40 fighting ores guarding the 
passage heading toward #5, These ores tend to 
be more bored and inattentive than the guards 
to the south, and they dislike having to deal 
with the occasional bullying orogs to the 
north. For this reason they tend to let things 
past easily and leave it to the orogs to sort but 
any trouble. The ES for this encounter is 2, 
but it can be counted as 0 if the PCs have not 
generated any obvious violence in this area. 
Unless these ores have been cued to expect 
violent opposition, it may be somewhat easier 
to bluff or deceive a way past them. 

4. Ogre Enclave 

This cavern houses some of the roughest 
ores living in the city complex. Workers and 
laborers live in slum dwellings, and some even 
in tents made from lizard skin and cloths 
taken from slain enemies. They'll make a shel 
ter with anything they can find. There are 
some 800-1,000 ores living in very squalid 


44 



guard of 60 ores with 10 orogs who command 
them (total ES 3). If the PCs have been able to 
bluff past the orogs outside the gate, they can 
get past here. If they used some form of deceit 
or iJius/on then the ES of the secondary guard 
will be 0. but the PCs may not necessarily au 
tomatically deceive them as well. 


conditions here: the small band of ogres living 
in the city have their own enclave close by the 
entrance. The ogres don't mix well with orog 
or senior orcish military leaders and shamans* 
so they have been given a small fief where 
they can bully the most wretched ores. 

There are 42 ogres here all told* including 
one ogre leader and one chieftain. In an initial 
encounter, there will be ld4 +6 of them 
around the entrance to the cavern who will 
challenge anyone trying to enter. If combat 
ensues* other ogres will arrive at the rate of 
!d4 + 4 per round until the whole group is 
present (but see below). In this situation, the 
ores here will not fight with the ogres. They 
hate and fear the bullying ogres and won't risk 
their necks to help them. 

The ogres have lived in subterranean realms 
long enough to have a form of infravision to a 
range of 15\ However, this isn't a great dis 
tance and while ogres may arrive in the gen 
eral area of fighting here, they must make an 
Intelligence check (Int 8) to locate the PCs with 
sufficient accuracy to be able to enter the fray. 
Otherwise they just blunder about flailing 
away harmlessly with their clubs* 


6* Guarded Entrance 

Tills entrance is guarded by 80 fighting ores 
10 of them are sergeants and half of them hav 
ing crossbows. Hunting parties leave and ar 
rive here with 75% of the frequency noted for 
the main entrance. ES here is 3. 


7* Entrance Passage 

Apply the same rules here as for location #2 
except that any watch patrol in transit will be 
of 80 ores (the same as above)* 


8. Cavern of The Hunters 

This cavern is home to some 800 ores* many 
of them hunters and trappers. Leather and fur 
(bear* wolverine, wolf* etc*) treatment is also 
carried on here* These procedures smell ap 
palling (if combat ensues* there is a - 1 pen 
alty to hit and damage rolls for all non-ores 
here due to nausea)* 

There is also a small barracks here which 
holds an alternate watch force of 80 ores, ex 
actly as for location #6 above (ES 3). 

9. Cavern of the Crafts Ores 

Part of the eastern part of the cavern here is 
filled with a very shallow, still pool fed by 
slow-moving underground streams. The 
growth of stalactites and stalagmites here is 
both very rapid and very unusual* Bizarre fea 
tures such as hollow growths, cones, spirals* 
and the like are common, A detect magic spell 
reveals a faint aura in most of the cavern* a 
spillover of the magical forces which created 
the main city cavern. 

Of the 1,500 or so ores who live here, around 
a third are artisans of some kind* The more 
refined (if ores can be refined) work with stone, 
rock, and the mineral deposits of the cave sys 
tem. Other ores make pots, receptacles, horns, 
drinking vessels, mortars, and such like* 
Leather workers occupy the more seedy part 
of this cavern to the south. A few armorers 
and specialists such as dyers and animal train 
ers also live in this cavern. The items outside 


5. Orog Gate 

In the outer cavern (#5a)* there are guards 
and a barracks building-some 40 ores with 
30 orog (total ES 5) including an orog leader. 
The orog leader has a potion of fire breath he 
has long wanted to use. There will be a 3rd 
level orcish shaman with this group* with the 
spells bless . command * and hoid person. In 
various buildings around the barracks, some 
400 ordinary ores dwell. 

The orogs are bullies and particularly enjoy 
maltreating any prisoners unfortunate enough 
to enter the area. They all have crossbows and 
use plate mail and long swords. 

There is a large gate as shown on the map 
made of crude ironwork and a little bronze 
around the hinges* It is fashioned in the form 
of two leering visages of a monstrously tusked 
ore (a depiction of the current chieftain)* It has 
two poor locks (4 15 to Pick Locks rolls) and 
the orog leader keeps the keys at all times. 

The gates are opened frequently allowing 
watch reliefs and hunters and journeymen in 
and out* and may be left unlocked 50% of the 
time. 

In the inner cavern, there is a secondary 



The northern passageway was clearly once 
blocked up by rocks since many of them are 
strewn around tire floor to the east and west of 
the passage. 

There is also a most unusual feature here. 
The whole passageway is illuminated with 
burning torches. These are of a variety of 
material-wood, rags, wax, old and ruined 
animal skins-all treated with a thick, heavy, 
pitch-like substance. The light they give Is 
poor, but they do extend visibility to a total of 
150' down the passageway. It's obvious that 
the ores want plenty of advance warning If 
anything comes along. 

The passageway has been unblocked re 
cently because the ores are preparing for a 
final assauit on the wretched creatures which 
live in the cavern beyond. 


and around their dwellings (an animal skin, 
ornamented pots, etc.) sometimes give away 
the occupation of those who live inside. 

There are also some guards here: a force of 
80 fighting ores with 10 sergeants (ES 4) is 
found at the entrance of the passageway lead 
ing from location #8. 

10. Animal Cavern 

There is a small number of orcish dwellings 
here around the broad entrance, but only 
around 500 ores live here. There is a group of 
guards here, but they do not actually keep an 
active watch outside the cavern-they are 
clearly involved with keeping order and secu 
rity within it. There are 70 ores here with 10 
sergeants (ES 3). 

Most of the cavern is occupied by a sizeable 
herd of cave lizards (these creatures are non- 
combative but reference stats are given in the 
Monster Statistics Chart), These vary in 
size from a small rat-like lizard to larger brutes 
the size of ponies. They feed on fungi and 
moss, which grow in profusion within the 
cave, and also on fish which appear to be plen 
tiful in the fairly deep but slow-moving stretch 
of underground waterway which lies to the 
west of the cave. Ores use the lizards for meat 
and for their skins, and their eggs are an orc 
ish delicacy. 

There is also a barracks holding 200 fighting 
ores close by the passage to it 11. At any time 
there are 40 ores including 4 sergeants outside 
(ES 2). The other ores can emerge at the rate 
or 40 per round (ES 2 per 40 ores). 

11. Guard Post 

There is a barracks building here which 
bouses a total of 300 fighting ores. Of these. 
100 will be posted at the passageway heading 
north from this cavern. They have with them 
15 sergeants and 5 members of the Phalanx 
(total ES 6. Other ores emerge at 40 per round, 
ES 2 per 40 ores). All of these fighting ores 
have crossbows and half of them will actually 
have their crossbows ready and aimed down 
the northward passage. There will also be ld6 
I st level shamans (spells: bless, command, or 
cure light wounds) and a lead shaman of 3rd 
level (spells: bless, curse; spiritual hammer). 
The shamans will have their unholy symbols 
prominent to turn anything emerging down 
the passageway they face. 


12. Ghoul Caverns 

These caverns are filthy and vile with piles 
of yellowed bones moldering in obscured cor 
ners, behind rocks on the rubble-strewn floor, 
and in niches and nooks. The inhabitants are 
cunning enough to clear away the mess from 
their feasting and also to have placed some 
treasure half-way into the room to the east of 
the southern entrance passage. 

The remnants of a pack of ghouls still man 
ages to eke out survival here. There are 28 
ghouls hiding around the cavern and eager to 
ambush anything (or anyone) who enters. 

They are filthy, emaciated, and ravenous, not 
having eaten for weeks, They are terrified of 
the ores since they get peppered with cross 
bow bolts when they so much as stick Lheir 
heads down the passageway, If any other liv 
ing creatures come Lheir way (like the PCs), 
they attack with the ferocity of the starving, 
adding + I to all their hit rolls. 

The treasure they use as a lure comes from 
dead ores and isn't very valuable. However, a 
couple of adventurers also got waylaid so the 
total is 325 cp. 310 sp. 115 ep. 82 gp. 17 pp, 
t wo small gems worth 100 gp apiece, some 
minor gold jewelry (rings, bracelets, nose rings 
and the like) worth a total of 1.000 gp (one 
plain gold ring here is a ring of warmth], and a 
silver tube (value 80 gp) sealed with wax and 
red ribbon which contains a scroll of magic- 
user spells: strength, dispel magic. By. poly 
morph self. 


46 






13. Secret Passage Complex 

This passage Is obscured by a 3' thickness of 
wedged rocks and stone behind a very large 
boulder. The ghouls don't know it is here. A 
standard secret door detection roll will reveal 
it, as will a dwarf 50% of the time (if he is close 
to it), or a test such as using a shielded candle 
to test for a gentle breeze. It takes 8 "PC 
hours" to clear away the rubble, although a 
spell such as stone to flesh or even dig (the 
rock isn't solid and d^gwill clear out the rocks 
and stones in ld4 +3 rounds) will expedite 
matters considerably. If the PCs want to cover 
their tracks behind them, a wall of stone spell 
will seal off the entrance, 

The passageway beyond varies in height 
and width. Parts of the central section are 
clearly unsafe (and might be detected as such 
by a gnome, etc.)- Worry the PCs by rolling 
dice and announcing that they hear creaks 
and distant rumbling sounds above them. If 
you wish have part of the passageway be so 
low they have to crawl along on hands and 
knees. Roll dice. Keep the players scared. 


14* The Central City Cavern 

This massive cavern houses the majority of 
buildings and creatures of Garel EnkdaL Some 
20,000 ores live here (including 500 half-ores 
who can be treated as ores). A huge central 
highway runs through the city toward the 
great black iron gate to the north (although 
this is way outside of infravision range to 
someone just entering the city). There are 
some zones of division within the city which 
separate its inhabitants into groups. 

A. Fighting Ores: Some 1,000 fighting ores 
are quartered In barracks here. The detach 
ment which will be outside at any given time 
is only 60 strong. Including 5 sergeants and 
one Phalanx member [ES 3). Other ores can 
emerge at the rate of 100 per round (ES 5 per 
group) if an alarm is raised and mass battle 
results. 

B ( C, Workers: The working ores of the city, 
laborers and their ilk, live here. 


47 







D. Guards; There are 700 fighting ores bil 
leted here with 100 ot them* including 10 ser 
geants and 2 Phalanx members, on guard at 
any given time (ES 5 b The other ores can 
emerge at the rate of 100 per round (ES 5 per 
group of 100)* 


16 & 17. Hobgoblin Caverns 

These two caverns are the most important 
occupied on this "level" by a tribe of hobgob 
lins some 1.500 strong in total (of these. 800 
are fighters while the rest are young* elderly 
sedentary, noncombatant, etc.). The ores have 
reduced their numbers fairly considerably and 
expect to mount an all-out attack in the near 
future. Here there is a passage leading down 
from #17 to a deeper cavern inhabited by the 
tribe and from there it winds on down to the 
Underdark. The PCs should certainly realize 
that this isn't the way to find the sword they 
seek. 

In the passageway emerging from #16 to the 
river is a permanent force of 40 hobgoblins 
with a sub-chief and two leaders (see Monster 
Statistics Chart). The chief lives to the north 
of #17. The hobgoblins are always prepared for 
an attack from the opposite side of the river. 
They always have crossbows trained down the 
passageway 

IPs unlikely that the PCs can recruit the 
hobgoblins as allies because there's no way of 
getting hundreds of them across the river in a 
sensible time period. However, it is just possi 
ble that a fighting retreat down #15 into the 
boats and across the river could give the PCs 
some chance of escaping annihilation In the 
orcish city if they've made a terrible mistake 
there* The hobgoblins just might accept the 
PCs if an encounter check gives a Friendly 
result (subtract -2 from the dice roll if the PCs 
have obviously been killing whole heaps of 
ores). This could be dramatically affected by 
the use of magic (notably a charm spell cast on 
the chief, for example). The hobgoblins might 
even allow the PCs some shelter and rest for a 
day or two. allowing them to recover spells 
(but might a few hundred ores come after 
them?...). 


E, Scum; The real dregs of orcish society live 
here, ores rejected by their brutish fellows as 
being too vile even for orcish companionship. 
These ores won't fight anyone* 

F. Artisans and Armorers; In this zone, 
most of the armor-making, smithing, and 
weapon making is conducted. Note that in this 
zone there is a passage which leads down 
wards (not shown on Map 9) to the mines 
from which the ores manage to extract a little 
iron for their weaponry A detachment of 100 
guards with 10 sergeants (ES 4) is posted here. 
The PCs should not take this route. If they 
head this way, you had better have Dream- 
singer communicate through empathy to his 
wielder that this is not the way to get to 
Stalker 


G. Creme de la Creme; Here the superior 
social strata of the ore life can be found (they 
have shirt cuffs to wipe their snouts on). Supe 
rior artisans, courtesans of orcish chieftains, 
musicians, elite standard bearers, and others 
live here. They are all abject cowards, of 
course, and will avoid combat if at all possible. 

15. Riverwards Passage 

There is a detachment of 100 fighting ores at 
the far end of this passage with 10 sergeants 
(ES 5). Half of the ores have crossbows readied 
and directed out and across the underground 
river* A small number of crude wooden boats, 
mostly in a bad state of repair (there's little 
wood to repair them with), are grounded un 
der some canvas-like material on the near 
bank. If the PC use these to try to cross the 
river, there's a 10% chance per round that a 
boat will begin to sink (it sinks in ld4 + 1 
rounds). 

Each boat holds four man-sized creatures, is 
powered by oars, and moves at a rate of 3 per 
round upstream (north) or cross-stream, 4 per 
round downstream. 


18. Fishing Cavern 

Two activities dominate this low-ceilinged 
cavern. First, large numbers of cave lizards 
graze on lichens and cave moss which grow 
abundantly here. These creatures are kept 
leashed to prevent them running off into the 
river and escaping. Second, ores fish the wa 
ters for the mostly-blind fish and eels which 
are surprisingly plentiful in the fairly sluggish 
river water. Both rod and line and weighted 
nets are used by the ores* 


48 




There are two groups of fighting ores placed 
here as guards. One group of 80 with 10 ser 
geants (ES 4] is located by the entrance to the 
cavern. Half of these ores have crossbows. An 
other 120 fighting ores, with 15 sergeants and 
3 Phalanx ores (ES 7) stand close by the river 
side in the northern half of the cavern, 75% of 
them with crossbows at the ready. These 
guards are readied for any possibility of the 
hobgoblins striking out down the river and 
attacking this cavern. 


learn from interrogations is dead with below). 

Bv logical deduction (there aren't that many 
notable buildings in the city), the PCs may work 
out that the temple is the likeliest place to find 
the sword. Whether such deduction is sufficient 
to persuade them to mount an assault on it is 
another matter and the dream visions (see be 
low) may be needed as a final spur, 

A second option-magical scrying-is likely to 
be less successful unless the PCs are thoughtful 
about how they interpret what they learn. 
Stacker cannot be scried (see the description of 
the sword in the Appendix), but it is possible 
that negative information might give something 
away For example, an entity reached by a con- 
tact other plane spell might know for sure that 
there is no powerful magical sword in other 
buddings (such as orog barracks, etc.) it is asked 
to examine, whereas if asked about the temple 
you might, allow a reply of. "Don't know, can't 
tell" to a query about a magical sword being 
there. However, more obvious spell choices sue) 
as augury and divination are unlikely to be use 
ful, save as sources of (restricted) negative infor 
mation and magic isn't likely to be the answer 
to the PCs' problems. 


19-21. 

These locations are described in The Item- 

pie and the Blackwell later in this chapter. 


Getting to the Sword 

The PCs need to be able to locate the sword 
first , of course. There are three way to do this. 

First, the PCs can use interrogations and de 
ductions. They should be able to learn from in 
terrogations of captured ores that the chief lives 
in the Temple, that spell casters are present 
there, and that magic (including magical items) 
is also kepi there (exactly what the PCs can 


l( if ij^ll 





49 



A spell such as ESP cast during Lhe interro 
gation of a spellcaster or Phalanx member 
who refuses to talk may reveal some informa* 
lion about the sword tf the ore knows of it. 
Rather than give a random determination, you 
should determine whether you want to drop 
such information to the PCs. depending on 
what stage their investigations are at. If 
they're just starting to get into the city, don't 
give things away to early. If they are getting 
desparate to find the information, and they've 
been trying hard for some time, help them out. 

The third option is to feed in the dream vi 
sions from Dreamsinger . Again, these should 
be timed depending on how Lhe PCs are doing. 
If they've only just set foot inside the orcish 
city, don't give them an image of the temple- 
later on they may need this as their final need. 
Ideally, you want them to have figured out 
that Lhe sword probably Is in Lhe temple and 
then have a dream vision "confirm" this. 

The PCs then have to manage to get into the 
city and to the temple (they may have made 
progress on this front as they were doing the 
detective work to find out where the sword 
was). This means dealing with many ores in 
various encounters. There are many options 
for this, which are reviewed later. Initially, it's 
important to understand how the Encounter 
Strength system works. 


The ES score is given to allow you a fast 
resolution of encounters. It is used in two 
ways: combat and noncombat situations. 

In a combat situation, each point of ES Is 
taken as a pool of hit points, ft takes 50 hit 
points of damage to eliminate I ES point. An 
area effect spell [fireball. fJame slriice, ice 
storm , etc.l will eliminate 1 ES point (if the 
caster is 6th or higher level), rolling for dam 
age isn't necessary. An area effect spell which 
causes enemies to be routed or forces retreat 
[fear, emotion . confusion . etc.) also eliminates 
1 ES point of opposition. Other magical, me 
lee. and missile damage is normally cumu 
lated. If you want to translate ES into 
numbers, generally 1 ES point is equivalent to 
around 20 ores including the odd leader type. 
Exact numbers don't matter, though. 

When the PCs are trying to eliminate ES 
points, they are subject to attacks in reply. An 


averaging system can be used here. There will 
always be 4 effective attacks per PC per round 
so long as ES is 2 or higher (this is reduced to 
2 effective attacks per PC per round if ES is 
reduced to 1). Attacks on PCs can be averaged 
also. For example: If THAOO =19 and a PC has 
AC1. then 4 effective attacks per round can be 
taken as a 60% chance per round of hitting (4 
x 15%). If a d 100 roll gives 40 or below the PC 
is hit for usual melee damage (IdS, or missile 
fire if this is taking place). Multiple melee at 
tacks can be dealt with this way so long as the 
chance for being struck isn't 100% or higher 
(if it is, resolve the attacks separately). Magical 
attacks must be dealt with separately* If a 
guard group has mixed THACQ values, use the 
superior values to approximate attacks on PC 
warriors. This simulates the fact that warriors 
tend to attack other warriors. 

Morale checks do not get made with the ES 
system: this set of approximations takes typical 
morale into consideration when computing ES 
values. 

In interpersonal situations involving reac 
tion checks, ES is applied as a positive modi 
fier to the dice roll. The higher the ES. the 
higher the likelihood of an adverse reaction. 

Using the ES score allows fairly fast resolu 
tions of encounters. In combat, ES is a mea 
sure of how stiff the opposition is that the PCs 
are up against and how much damage ores 
and their kin will take before they back off 
from combat. Not all ores are suicidal fools. If 
they see PCs wipe out whole groups of their 
fellows, they aren't going to press forward in 
droves to be flreballed. Some of those fighting 
will flee when they see other ores butchered 
wholesale. All this is taken into account with 
the ES system. 

Finally when awarding XPs, each ES point is 
worth 500 XPs if dealt with by combat and 1,000 
XPs if dealt with by non-combative means. 

How the PCs Can Win 

The best way tor the PCs to resolve the ad 
venture is to wait until they are in striking 
distance of the black gates at the northern end 
of #14 {or manage to get into the long passage 
at #13 which by-passes this entrance). Then 
the fighting will start in earnest. But getting 
past thousands of ores en route will surely " 
demand non-combat options in play. 


Encounter Strengths 



Non-Combat Options 

Surveillance 

Watching cave entrances rfl and #6 is impor 
tant: it will allow' the PCs to spot when 
watches are changed, for a start. This won't 
enable them to avoid guards, but it will enable 
them to avoid meeting a second watch coming 
along to replace those already on duty, as ex 
plained earlier. There is also one definite bo 
nus the PCs should receive if they spend at 
least 12 hours watching one or more en 
trances. 

Four ores return with a group of six human 
bandit prisoners roped together their weapons 
removed. The ores are an advance group sent 
from a hunting party. The bandits are kicked a 
little by the guards then dragged off into the 
city. The PCs can try to rescue them here if 
they're foolish enough-they're all CE 2nd 
level bandits and will behave accordingly. 
They'll be dead within half an hour of getting 
into the city, so no rescue is possible there. 

The important thing is that the PCs might get 
a hint here: Use of a polymorph se/fspeil or 
two could produce some ores among the PCs 
and stripping weapons off the rest (and slip 
ping them in a bag of holding or suchlike) 
could get them past the guards. Don't spell 
this out. Let the players think it out for them 
selves. Encounter checks may be needed for 
more suspicious creatures such as the orog 
and these should be made with tougher modi 
fiers as the PCs get further into the caverns. 

Surveillance also allows the PCs the chance 
of following an orcish hunting party, attacking 
it. taking some prisoners, as well as a pile of 
orcish gear which could be used for disguise. 
These resources may also be vital for success 
ful deceptions. 

Interrogations 

At more than one stage, the PCs should be 
able to get some ores or better (orogs, etc.) to 
interrogate-maybe on a hit-and-run basis. 

You have to determine what such prisoners 
may say depending on the needs of the see* 
nario. 

Almost any prisoner will give some details of 
the city (system of caverns* zones of the city, 
etc.) if persuaded. Saying much more will de 


pend on whether the PCs can reassure the 
prisoner that it's in his interest to talk. You 
may use an action check with a friendly result 
being necessary for the prisoner to say any 
thing more (a charm spell is an obvious help 
here). 

How much prisoners know depends on the 
state of play. If the PCs are finding it hard go 
ing, give them some clue which guides them 
to the temple area (mentions of the black obe 
lisk, magic being kept in the temple* the chief 
being a spellcaster and living there* and the 
like will help). Make the hints more enigmatic 
if the PCs are already doing well enough. 

Also, what a prisoner will know will depend 
on who he is-a shaman will know much more 
about the temple than a humble fighting ore. 

The key here Is to tell PCs what you feel 
they need to know. Make them work for the 
information* but keep it moving. 

Deception and Disguise 

The polymorph self spell (and potions, etc.] 
could be absolutely vital in this adventure, 

PCs disguised as ores could carry out surveih 
lance missions (but they will need orcish 
equipment to wear* of course, the polymorph 
self spell does not. create equipment). They 
could smuggle in the other PCs appearing as 
prisoners (see above). They could try to 
blather their way through various places by 
pretending to be messengers (" T Ere! Where's 
Red Ratsnout? We gotta find *im quick!"). 

They could converse with oiher ores (espe 
cially by bullying scum, children, and the 
like). They can steal equipment, mug ores in 
the shadows, and much more. 

When trying to disguise themselves as ores 
with orcish gear (face-smeared with diri and 
grime), a character with the disguise profb 
ciency is not likely to be successful in a direct 
encounter. If the PCs have a dwarf or gnome, 
it's virtually impossible. But it might be possi 
ble tor a minority of characters with the dis 
guise proficiency one or two with polymorph 
self, and the rest being invisible or otherwise 
concealed* to create a whole PC party of ores 
through various methods. 

There is other magic which can aid such 
deceptions. Items and magic allowing change 
of form {alter/change self spelts, a cloak of the 
bat a hat of disguise, druidic shapechanging. 


51 





First, the PCs can hardly just charm the 
leader in open view of the other ores. They're 
going to suspect that some kind of influence 
has been used if their leader suddenly starts 
behaving differently. The PCs have to be very 
careful how they use charm magic. 

Second, the PCs need to get a decent story 
together- They have to persuade their newly 
charmed friend that they need to see the ore 
chief to convey a message of some importance, 
for example {"There's going to be poison in the 
river, the hobgoblins are trying to kill you! We 
must warn your chief! We hate those hobgob 
lins, Lhey killed our best friend!"}. This gives 
the leader a good reason for getting them 
through to where they want to go. and a good 
line to rationalize to his subordinates. 

Encounter checks will still be needed, but 
bonuses of - 1 to "3 to the dice roll apply if 
the PCs have a charmed leader type and a fur 
ther - 1 to - 2 for having a good storyline in 
case a suspicious leader down the line starts to 
get wondering. This can be a dangerous strat 
egy. but. if it works. It can be very successful. 


etc.) will allow PCs to appear as common and 
inoffensive creatures such as rats. bats, or 
cave lizards (in addition to masquerading as 
ores or orog). In these forms, they can scuttle 
about and infiltrate the place. Be very careful 
to keep track of elapsed time with spells. 

There are no limits to player ingenuity in 
such actions, so it's impossible to give hard 
and fast rules, but reward good play. If the 
players are smart enough to realize that wear 
ing the armor and insignia of a shaman or ser 
geant will get them further than wearing 
ordinary fighting gear, this is intelligent and 
their PCs should be able to get further along 
the line. Applying similar considerations will 
allow you to DM such actions successfully, 


Decoys and Diversions 

The PCs may be able to avoid encounters by 
creating diversions and decoys. There are 
many ways they might go about this. 

Use of Ulusion/phantasm spells is one possi 
bility. Creating a diversion with some charmed 
or otherwise controlled creatures is a second 
{examples include the ogres, after their leader 
was charmed, the hobgoblins, creatures 
rounded up in the mountains, and others). 
Created magical effects (wall spells in a pas 
sage. for example) are a third. A major fire, if 
the PCs can build one (or a flaming sphere 
spell), would be another possibility The list 
goes on and on. 

How do you deal with this? If the PCs are 
using a decoy to draw away the attention of 
the creatures, or actually lured some of them 
away, a simple rule of thumb is to halve the 
ES (round fractions up) for the encounter. This 
simulates the fact that some of them will stay 
at their posts while others will investigate, get 
confused, run around in panic, etc. If the idea 
is an especially ingenious one, you could re 
duce ES to 1 as most of the ores are taken in 
or otherwise affected. 


Braggadocio and Being 
Outrageous 

Players can come up with briUiantJy inven 
tive solutions (in one play testing a thundering 
herd of cave lizards sweeping all before them 
created utter mayhem). They can also attempt 
the absolutely ludicrous, PCs can dress up in 
white sheets and pretend to be ghosts, feign 
being zealous converts to the worship of 
Gruumsh, pretend to be arms salesmen (as it 
were)* feign madness (or even better having an 
inevitably lethal and very infectious disease), 
attempt to be seductive [unbelievable but 
true), and scores of other extraordinary strate 
gies. 

It's very difficult to give rules for such strate 
gies since by definition they're unpredictable. 
However, one rule of thumb is helpful. If the 
PCs put some thought into how their off-the- 
wall idea might work (contingency plans and 
the like), let them get away with it once unless 
it's really reaching. Roll dice as if resolving 
some check and then shake your head, in 
forming the players that their PCs "really got 
lucky there, you won't gel away with stuff like 
that again." If they try something weird again. 


Charm and Control 

Some effects of charm magic have been 
noted above, but there are others. Successful 
use on a senior leader can get the PCs past a 
group of ores later along the line. A Phalanx 
member or an orog can be crucial in this re 
spect. But this isn't automatically successful. 


52 





sword sings, the scimitar Greenswathe glows 
and pulses green along its length, A 20 r radius 
sphere projects around the PCs; its center is 
Dreamsinger and the edge is marked by spar 
kling motes of green light and a strange semi* 
refraction effect. 

If this effect is active outside the black gates, 
ail ores within the radius of the effect on the 
near side of the gate will fall asleep (no saving 
throw). If the effect is active inside the black 
gates- the creatures present within the area of 
effect must save versus spells or fall asleep, 
but again the song lasts for only 2 rounds (the 
victims of the sleep will sleep for ld6 + 6 
turns). 


they've been warned. Hit them hard 


Combat 

Combat options can be tried at any stage. 
They are certainly an option for the guards at 
the entrance. One successful strategy in play* 
testing, for example, was to dump wall of 
stone and silence 15' radius spells behind the 
guards and fry them with fireballs and the 
like. A few can be left standing for lighters to 
mop up so their gear can be used, a dispel 
used to deal with the other magic, then the 
PCs can head off down the passage and toward 
the caverns. 

Within the major caverns it's unlikely that 
this can work. There are just too many fight 
ing ores. It's vital to make the PCs realize that 
they cannot win by fighting their way through 
the inner caverns. 

Where combat will be inevitable is at the 
end of the adventure when the PCs get to the 
tern pie of Gruumsh. The locations in this area, 
and the enemies they have to face, are the 
final piece of the puzzle. 


The Temple and the Blackwell 

Before listing the locations here, it is impor 
tant to note that Dream singers special pur 
pose power of casting llrespear twice a day will 
certainly be available to the PC using this 
sword at this stage. The party is close upon 
.Stalker and Dreamsinger will certainly ready 
this power. 

19. The Black Gates 

Assuming the PCs have Dreamsinger. they 
will be able to put to sleep all the guards (120 
with 15 sergeants and 4 Phalanx members) on 
the city side of the gate. They still have to deal 
with all the guards inside the temple area and 
they also have to open the gates somehow. 

The great gates of black iron are 18' high and 
bolted into the stone walls. 

The gates are massive with two poor quality 
locks and they are also barred. TWo locks and 
a bar require two knock spells. Ten or more 
points of damage to a lock from a Melf s acid 
arrow or like spell will ruin it. A Bend Bars roll 
will create a hole in the bars big enough to get 
one PC per round through to the other side. Of 
course, some spectacular violence (a wall of 
iron dumped on top of the gates) can also be 
effective here. 

The guards inside the compound aren't just 
going to sit around and watch this. See the 
description of area #22 for details of their 
forces and deployment. 


Hit And Run 

The ES values do not change if the PCs try a 
hit-and-run. There are enough ores to replace 
any slain almost Indefinitely, If the PCs settle 
down for an endless string of hit-and-runs, 
send out the heavy duty humanoids to come 
and get 'em. Over 100 orog and ogres, and all 
the spell casters and Phalanx ores, should be 
able to give the PCs some serious trouble if 
they catch them at their camp. 

Only use this search-and-destroy option if 
the PCs are careless and foolhardyand try re 
peated attempts at attacking the orcish city. 


Dreamsinger's Sleep Song 

This can operate as the PCs head toward the 
black gates at #19 in the upper half of the ma 
jor city cavern or actually inside the temple 
complex if they come through the secret en 
trance at #20 {location details below). Dream- 
singer bursts into song of its own accord, 
either when the entrance at #20 is opened or 
when the PCs are headed for the black gates at 
#19 (and are within two rounds or reaching it). 
The song is an eerie, keening wail, and, as the 


20. Secret Portal 

The existence of this one-way secret portal is 
unknown to the ores. It does, unfortunately, 


53 



have a glyph of warding placed just within it 
(on the side of the passage #13) which is trig 
gered by anyone walking within 6" of the door. 
A very high-level priest originally cast this and 
the glyph has multiple effects when triggered. 
These are listed below; for the purposes of dis 
pel attempts, the glyph is cast at 16th level. 

Triggering the glyph first causes an explo 
sion of fire in a 5' radius which inflicts 8d4 
points of damage (save for half damage* Dex 
terity bonuses do not apply in the confined 
space) and blows the door out also. The flash 
of light set off is brilliant and dazzling. Anyone 
in the passageway within 20' and facing the 
door must make a saving throw versus spells 
or be blinded for ld4 +1 rounds. Finally, there 
is an unpleasant curse cast into the glyph so 
that the creature triggering it must make a 
saving throw versus spells or suffer -2 penal 
ties to all hit and damage rolls and saving 
throws for Id4 days (and this effect may not 
be obvious for some while). 


hostilities commence. They will be aided by 
the forces inside the temple which are summa 
rized later. Here are the guards the players will 
first encounter: 


Phalanx ores 
Ore sergeants 
Orogs 

Orog subchiefs 

1st level ore shamans (with the spell 
command in ail cases). 


Standard profiles from the Monster Statis 
tics Chart can be used for these enemies. 

Note that they all possess missile weapons in 
the form of crossbows and one orog subchief 
has a crossbow of accuracy +3 together with a 
supply of 12 crossbow bolts + 1. If the ores 
have to fire through the bars of the gates at 
#19, they suffer -2 penalties to hit rolls for 
this. PCs returning such fire have "4 penal 
ties to hit rolls. The penalties for the ores don't 
apply If they are able, for example, to shoot at 
a hapless PC trying to pick locks on the gates, 
bend bars on the gate, and the like (you can 
add at least +2 to hit rolls and damage against 
the sitting-duck PC). 

Combat should be resolved using standard 
mechanics here there is no ES value is given. 
These initial guards shouldn't cause the PCs 
all that much trouble* but they aren't stupid, 
They have the discipline and intelligence to 
spread out in order to evade magical area at 
tacks until the PCs get within melee range. 
This overall group should be treated as having 
a group morale of 14. Don't forget also that 
they will start receiving support from the crea 
tures inside the temple very quickly. 


21. The Black Obelisk 

This malefic needle of obsidian reaches 20' 
into the air and is marked with many orcish 
runes and blood stains. Atop its point is a sin 
gle* baleful, stone eye. When the PCs breach 
the courtyard area (#22). either through the 
gates or the secret portal, the eye opens and 
bathes a 60' radius area in very dim red glow 
ing light. This has the effect of a prayer spell 
operating against any living creatures other 
than orog* ores* and half ores (i.e,, the PCs), 

The following spells may be useful against 
the eye: light (negates the prayer for ld6 
rounds) or continual light (counteracts the red 
glow' and negates the prayer for ld4 turns). 
dispel magic (negates the prayer effect for i 
turn if successfully cast against 12th level 
magic), blindness (causes a grey fog to swim 
before the stone eye and negates the glow and 
prayer for ld6 turns), and hypnotic/rainbow 
pattern (Lf cast before the eye, the glow fades 
and die prayer is negated for ld6 turns). If a 
spell which might destroy the eye is cast (e.g,, 
stone to flesh , disintegrate) the eye is allowed 
a saving throw against spells (as if a 12th-level 
wizard) to negate the effect, 

22- The Temple Courtyard 

There are guards stationed here who will 
certainly do all they can to fight the PCs when 


23. The Temple of Gruumsh 

Map ) 0 shows the layout of this building in 
detail. The creatures which occupy this tem 
ple are numerous. Information is organized 
about them in the following manner. First* a 
special boxed section gives statistics and de 
tails for exceptional ores and others inside the 
temple. Second* a location guide to the temple 
notes all the rooms and states whai creatures 
are initially present in which location (a sum 
mary table at the end of this guide will help 
you with this). Finally* a tactical guide to how 
these forces will deploy themselves and react 
to the PCs is given. 


54 





magnificent gold neckchain worth 2500 gp 
and other personal jewelry worth 1000 gp. 

Hardreda, Chieftain's Wife: This tall, 
powerfully muscled and utterly evil half-ore 
is a fighter of real stature and viciousness 
who is much feared by the ores. She has a 
ferocious temper and is enraged when in 
combat. When reduced to hall'her hit point 
total or below, she fights with demented 
frenzy, adding +1 to all hit rolls and + 2 
additional damage. She is a 9th-level fighter 
with 18/47 strength. 

AC -2 ( plate mail +3 and Dexterity bo 
nus): MV 9; hp 74: #AT 3/2: Dmg Id 10 + 7 
(two-handed sword + 2. weapon specialized. 
Strength bonus): AL NE: THACO 11(8 with 
magical sword). Magic: plate mail +3, 2- 
handed sword +2. stone of good luck, 
broom of animated attack. Hardreda es 
chews jewelry save for a very fine platinum 
brooch set with aquamarines, two small 
pearls, and an emerald. This brooch is 
worth 4500 gp. 


Major NPCs in the Temple of Grnumsh 

Chief Gardrak Bloodsocket: The chief is 
a grizzled ore, a good fighter, and a shaman 
of unusual power. His second name comes 
from the fact that, when enraged in battle, 
blood wells up in the eye socket of the left 
eye he plucked out in Gruumsh's service. 

He is treated as a 7th-level priest with supe 
rior combat ability (and 18 wisdom for the 
purposes of spell and saving throw bo 
nuses). 

AC -A (plate mail +2, shield +2. Dexter 
ity bonus); MV 9: hp 38: STR 18, Dex 16. 
Con 14, Int 12, Wis 18. Cha 16 (to ores): #AT 
1: Dmgld6+4 (iron spear +2, Strength bo 
nus); AL LE: THACO 15 (13 with magical 
spear). Spells: bless, command x2 , cure 
light wounds *2: aid. barkskin. hold person 
x 2. resist fire; cause paralysis, dispel 
magic, prayer; free action, spell immunity 
(cast against magic missile). Magic: plate 
mail +2. shield + 2. long sword +2. ring of 
protection +1. scroll of protection from fire, 
potion of extra-healing. The chief has a 


the temple 
of QRuumsh 


1 squaRe 







__ p 


















K 




















i 



fit 



ITT 







HI 

L 

HI 


L 










G 



"l 

¦ L 





l 



- 


T 





2| 

iLk 1 

| F 



















































Sharazad, Priest of Gruumsh: This 
wizened, old ore is the effective High Priest 
for ceremonial duties even though he is but 
5th level compared to the chiefs 7th level. 
He can still manage to use one of the heavy 
spears favored by Gruumsh in his chain 
mail-this gumless old ore is not to be un 
derestimated, 

AC 2 (chain mail + 3); MV 9; hp 21; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6+ 1 (iron spear + i): AL LE; THACO 
17. Spells: command . cure light wounds 
x 2, protection from good; aid , bless, hold 
person: meld into stone . Sharazad has only 
a pair of silver bracelets of crude manufac 
ture with skull motifs etched on them which 
are worth 30 gp each, 

Gakmaradar, Court Wizard: This 
stunted (5 r 1"), sneaky, devious little ore 
took to the study of magic because of his 
lack of fitness for fighting. He has managed 
to survive and worm his way into the chiefs 
good books. Although he hardly has the 
wizard powers to be formidable (4th level). 


he has managed to salt away some wizardly 
magic items from captured and slain adven 
turers and these make him a more danger* 
ous foe. 

AC 10 (or much better with shield spell and 
magical dust see below): MV 15; hp 17: #AT 
I; Dmg ld4: AL NE: THACO 19. Spells: magic 
missile (2 missiles), shield: naming sphere, 
web. Magic items: dagger +2. iongfooth (he is 
unaware of this magic), wand of magic mis 
siles (21 charges), scroll of 2 spells (fireball, 
wail of ice, cast at 7th level), scroll of 3 spells 
{dispel magic, dimension door ; Melfs minute 
meteors, cast at 9th level), dust of disappear 
ance (2 pinches), Gakmaradar wears a gold 
bracelet set with amber and amethysts worth 
1200 gp. 

Mordugar, Chiefs Son: Mordugar swans 
about in black-lacquered plate mail and 
thinks he is a powerful and inspiring fighter- 
leader. He is actually a fairly pathetic speci 
men and is treated simply with the usual 
Phalanx profile (see Monster Statistics 
Chart) save that his plate mail +2 gives him 


It 


§fr/*| 

*MV>. 











the High Priest. There axe four level 3 sha 
mans here (with 13 wisdom) and two level 4 
shamans (with 14 wisdom). Their spells are: 
level 3 shamans: b/ess, command, cure light 
wounds, barks/cm: level 4 shamans: b/ess, 
command, cure light wounds x 2. protection 
from good, aid, hold person. 

F. Mordugar's Chamber: The chiefs son 
will initially be found here. 


an AC of 1. He also carries a potion of heal 
ing. He wears abundant personal jewelry in 
the form of a gold nose-ring, ear-ring, heavy 
gold bracelets, a gold medallion against his 
hairy chest which combined are worth a 
total of 2.800 gp. 


Locations Within The Temple 

On Map 10. these are lettered. Not included 
are the black iron railings around the temple 
which stand 12' tall. The railings are deco 
rated with skulls on top-human, orcish, vari 
ous humanoid forms, even one or two elves. 

Temple rooms aren't given abundant detail 
ing here and nor is specific treasure listed, 
save for major locations. The PCs aren't likely 
to have lots of time to check them thoroughly. 
Add "dungeon dressing" as you see fit. 

A. Great Itemple: This is where the action 
isn't. This vast temple area (not all shown on 
Map 10) can hold thousands of ores in its 
many pews and rows. There are black altars to 
Gruumsh. displays of weapons (especially 
spears), racks and pegs of skulls and broken 
bones, and all the impedimenta one would 
expect in such a dreadful place. At any time 
there are 3 lst-Ievel shamans here with 10 
zombies (mix of ores and humans) which are 
used for cleaning duties. 

B. Doors to the Chiefs Throne Room 
Complex: There are always 4 Phalanx ores on 
guard outside these doors. 

Cl-12. The Bodyguard: Each of these 12 
sparsely furnished rooms is the living space of 
1 Phalanx ore. 


G. Senior Phalanx Chamber: Three Pha 
lanx chiefs will initially be either here or in 
their personal rooms (see below). These are 
the chiefs senior advisers and military lead 
ers. 


HI-3. Personal Chambers: These are the 
personal bed chambers and living quarters of 
the Phalanx chiefs. 


I. The Throne Room: It is almost certain 
that the climax to the adventure will take 
place here. For this reason, a description of 
this location is at the end of this section. 


J. Sharazad's Chamber: The High Priest 
resides here. The chamber has the decor one 
would expect from such a priest, but the black 
silk tapestries with gold threading here are 
surprisingly tine and worth a total of 1500 gp. 
Sharazad has no other valuables or treasure. 


K. Hardreda's Chamber: The chiefs wife 
lives here with her maid-a terrified, noncom 
batant ore. Hardreda's "hobby" is etching 
shields and other metaiwork and she has a 
total of three flasks of metal-eating acid here. 
Each will cause 2d6 points of damage on a 
direct hit. Id4 points on a splash. A direct hit 
is 25 % likely to ruin non-magical metal armor 
within 1 turn. This chance is reduced by 10% 
per magical plus of the armor (+ 3 or better 
armor is unaffected). A character not wearing 
metal armor is 15% likely to suffer scarring to 
the face which results in a permanent loss of 
ld3 Charisma points. Hardreda is especially 
fond of using acid to attack comely females. 

L. Chief's Chamber: This room is fairly 
spartan, although there is a set of fine wolf 
furs on the chiefs bed (worth 700 gp) and 
some good solid silver candlesticks (no can- 


Dl-6. Students of Magic: These cells 
house six witchdoctors. l\vo of them are ievei 
two spell casters, three are level three spell 
casters, and the sixth is the Court Wizard (de 
tailed elsewhere). Their spells are: Level two 
witchdoctors: - magic missile , shield: Level 
three witchdoctors: - charm person, magic 
missile, web. 


EX-6. Junior Shamans: These cells house 
the six shamans who are the direct servitors of 


57 




dies, but they're still worth 500 gp). There is a 
set of iron keys hanging up beside the chiefs 
bed which open the treasure chamber, 

M, Treasure Room: This has three locks, all 
of standard quality- The keys from the chiefs 
chamber will open these* but one is trapped: 
The lock must be unlocked, re-locked* and 
then unlocked a second time to defuse the trap 
which will spring out when the door is opened* 
This trap is a razor-sharp metal blade which 
springs out and around from the door frame 
and slashes at the person opening the door 
inflicting 2d8 points of damage (2d4 if the per* 
son wears metal armor). 

Within this bare chamber are four chests, 
each locked. These contain the following: 

Chest A: A sack with 12,760 cp. a second 
sack with 8,400 sp, a small sack with 4,200 
gp* and a second small sack with 1.655 pp. 
These coins are from a variety of people and 
places, mostly bandit princelings, Tbnh, bar* 
barian issue, and Stonefist* 


10' must save versus spelts or be deafened for 
ld6 +1 rounds by the explosion. 


Reference Thble: Ttemple Occupants 


Room 


Occupant(s) 

Level 1 shamans (3) 

Zombies (10) 

4 Phalanx Ores 
12 Phalanx Ores 
Level 2 witchdoctors (2) 

Level 3 witchdoctors (3) 
Gakmaradar* Level 4 witchdoctor 
Level 3 shamans (4) 

Level 4 shamans (2) 

Mordugar (Phalanx Ore) 

3 Phalanx Chiefs 
Chief Gardrak, Level 7 shaman 
Hardreda, Chiefs Wife. Level 9 
Fighter 

Sharazad. Level 5 shaman 


Tactics for Ttemple Occupants 


When an alarm is raised the shamans from 
A will open the doors to the Great Ttemple at 
once and command the zombies out to fight 
the intruders* From the other areas of the tem 
ple, the response is fairly simple and splits into 
two groups: 


Chest 8: This contains some rolls of slightly 
mildewed silks, some calico, thick cotton, and 
similar bolts of cloth. The ores have no use for 
such materials and the chief imagined that he 
might trade them, but has forgotten about 
them* The cloths are heavy (total encum 
brance value of 150) hut are worth 4,000 gp 
total* Hidden inside one boll of cotton is a mis 
laid gold ring with a ruby worth 1,400 gp, 


• The chief, his wife, his son, Sharazad, 
Gakmaradar, and the three Phalanx chiefs will 
assemble in the throne room. There they will 
begin casting defensive spells. 


Chest C: This contains a sack with assorted 
jewelry and gems, mostly trinkets and orna 
mental stones, worth a total of 9,000 gp. There 
is also a sack with bric-a-brac: crystal paper 
weights and ornaments, a turquoise behir 
model (very fetching), an articulated silver 
model skeleton of a hydra, a pair of exquisite 
silk glove puppets, and like oddities, worth a 
total of 16,000 gp. 

Chest D: This chest is simply trapped. 
Whether unlocked with the key, picked, or 
smashed open, a small vial of corrosive acid Is 
broken. It reacts with a green powdered con 
centrate and has two effects* First, the chest 
explodes. This inflicts 2d8 points of blast dam 
age and Id6 points of splintered wood damage 
on anyone within 10'. Second* anyone within 


• All other ores here will rush out to fight. 
Shamans and witchdoctors will cast their de 
fensive spells (including bless) first. These ores 
are really the cannon fodder to weaken the 
PCs a little before the climactic combat in the 
throne room* This location is now detailed 
fully for this final combat* 


Combat in the Throne Room 

This chamber is dominated by the great 
obsidian throne of the chief. It is a tail-backed 
seat topped with impaled skuils with a hole 
neatly drilled above and between their eye 
sockets to represent the central eye of 
Gruumsh. Bloodied trophies of combats, ani 
mal skins, [non-magicall weaponry, and crude 


58 




furnishings complete Lhe decor. Just behind 
and to the right of the throne of the chief is a 
depression in the floor which has a ring of red* 
flecked black stone around it* Even in the 
darkness Lhe ores favor, it seems that flickers 
of blackness and chill sinuously radiate from 
this area and then slither back into their magi 
cal point of origin (this radiates strong magic 
and evil if detected for]. Above this well, 
sculpted into the wall, is an idol of Gruumsh 
appearing as a huge (14' tall), one-eyed ore 
with an enormous flaming spear in one hand 
and a wickedly spiked ball and chain in the 
other. Finally, slavering and snarling by the 
throne is the chiefs pet troll, a huge monster 
with 51 hp. 

The Phalanx chiefs will spread themselves 
out, with Hardreda and Mordugar, to protect 
the others (the chief, his High Priest and Court 
Wizard) to allow them to cast spells. The troll 
will attack the first PC who enters the room. 
Note that Hardreda will be using her broom of 
animated attack, especially to assault any fly* 
ing PC or spell caster who is proving hard to 
melee. Unless the PCs have been very fast, all 
defensive/protective spells will have been pre 
cast in the best order. Gakmaradar will have 
used his magical dust on himself and Shara- 
zad. Gardrak will have read his scroll of pro 
tection from tire , and so on. Just before the 
PCs enter, the chief will cast his prayer spell 
for Lhe coming combat. 

Don't use morale checks for these enemies. 
The rationale here is a battle to the death. The 
only ores who might surrender (and only then 
if the chief and his wife are siain) are the High 
Priest and Gakmaradar the wizard. 


Effects of Blackwell Missiles 


D6 Roll Effect 

1 ^2 Strength, 2d6 rounds 

2 -2 Strength, 2d6 Turns 

3 Victim is slowed, 2d6 rounds 

4 Victim is paralyzed, 2d6 rounds 

5 One randomly determined limb 
is affected as by a staff of wither- 
ing 

6 As above, and the victim is also 
aged (as if by a ghost) 

These effects can only be utilized by a spell 

caster who is a worshipper of Gruumsh* 


The Idol of Gruumsh 

The etched wall idol is also active during 
combat. It exerts a protective effect in the 
room. First, It automatically dispels or dis 
misses any conjured or summoned creatures, 
which the PCs have with them (efreeti, invisi 
ble stalkers, elementals. unseen servants, 
summoned monsters, conjured animals, and 
the like). It also negates the effects of any 
spells which conjure/summon such creatures 
within this chamber. 

The single eye of the idol opens as the PCs 
enter the throne room revealing a magically 
red cornea and a jet black pupil. Each round 
during combat a single spark of red light ap 
pears within the stone eye and fires a glowing 
mote of light through the air at a (randomly 
selected) PCs, THACO for this attack is 5 and 
the missile acts as a tire seed (2d8 points of 
damage]. The idol's eye closes only if all ores 
in this room are slain. 


The Blackwell in Combat 

However, it isn't just the abilities of the ores 
here which present dangers to the PCs. Each 
round, any one of the spell casters can reach 
into the Blackwell and draw forth a globe of 
blackness from which black semi-ethereal 
tendrils trail and fade into nothingness. This 
globe can then be thrown up to 40' as a +3 
magical missile weapon. The globe inflicts 2d6 
points of chill damage and the victim must 
make a saving throw versus spells (no bonus 
applies for magical armor) or suffer a ran 
domly determined effect from the table below. 


Victory! 

Eventually, the PCs should be able to win 
this combat. When they do. Dreamsinger and 
Greens wa the both scream to their owners 
(metaphorically speaking) that Stalker is 
within the Blackwell. 

There is only one way to get at the magical 
weapons within the Blackwell-reach in and 
grab them. When this is attempted, the PC has 
a chance of grabbing a weapon from what feels 
like a swirling vortex of ultra-cold force. This 
chance is equal to one-half the PC's Dexterity 
score (roll as a Dexterity check). The Blackwell 



is bottomless, If a PC wants to actually climb 
down into it, it is a terrific way to reduce life 
expectancy to zero. 

Unfortunately, contact with the Blackwell 
inflicts 2d6 points of chiiJ damage per round. 
Spells which protect against cold will halve 
this at best [resist cold t fire shield , etc.). There 
is also a 10% chance per round that the PC 
loses one point of a physical stat (d6: 1-2, Str; 
3-4, Dex; 5-6, Con) permanently from the bit 
ing magical chili 

Magical means of getting the weapons here 
won't work, except for a wish . 

There are two weapons within the Black- 
well: Stalker {see Appendix) and a dwarven 
warhammer +3 which only acts as a +1 
weapon In anyone else's hands. If the dwarf 
using this weapon is a rogue it adds +5% to 
all rogue skills when used and. if used to strike 
from behind with surprise (as in backstab- 
bing). on a natural 20 it kills the victim out 
right. Which weapon is grabbed first should be 
randomly determined. 

Staging the Ending 

There are two options for getting out of the 
orcish city. The first is to make the PCs run 
from the city, fighting or bluffing their way 
past encounter checks and replenished 
guards. The city will be in a state of uproar 
and panic and encounters, and encounter 
checks should reflect this. Ore reactions will 
be extreme (very hostile or terrified). If the PCs 
have the strength and skills left to try this, let 
them go for il [and add extra XPs if they make 
it the hard way). If they get into real trouble, 
you can always switch to the second option. 

The second option is that the three magical 
swords begin to hum and glow together, devel 
oping a whirlwind of swirling, howling magical 
force. They are building up strong magical 
energy. The result of this is to teleport the PCs 
20 miles away north-east of the city (and 
above ground). The three sword wielders will 
be physically drained, their hit point totals will 
be halved from their current levels (round frac 
tions up) with - 2 penalties to Strength and 
Constitution for 24 hours. 

if you can stage it. while the PCs are desper 
ately rummaging in the Blackwell for Stalker, 
you can have orog reinforcements start pour 
ing down the temple corridor to the throne 


room forcing the PCs to hold them off. If they 
interpose a magical barrier (wall of stone, etc.), 
have an orcish 2nd level witchdoctor with a 
dispel magic scroll get rid of it. Make them 
fight a holding action while they get the 
sword. 

Concluding the Adventure 

The PCs should be allowed to find a safe 
place to rest and recuperate. What happens 
now depends on whether you wish to continue 
with the adventure series. 

If you do not end the adventure at this point, 
the PCs should rest and sleep, recover hit 
points and spells, and the adventure will be 
resumed in the next module of this series. 

If you wish to end the adventure here, after 
rest and sleep, the PCs will meet a group of 
powerful Frost Barbarians led by a man 
known to be a powerful warrior and leader. 
Since the PCs do not wish to continue the 
quest, Malian and Karasten will depart with 
the Frost barbarians and the three Blades of 
Corusk, The PCs can travel with them to a safe 
place within their own lands, if they wish: you 
can skip encounters along the way, the com 
bined group is too strong to be seriously 
threatened. Here, they will be greeted as he 
roes and fine barbarians, but when the other 
barbarians find the other Blades, the glory of 
the PC s will soon be forgotten. The PCs lives 
will be safer, but quieter, and their chance of 
glory is gone. 







Appendix 


The Blades of Corusk 

Name Align B 

Harmonizer IN] + 


The Blades of Corusk 

The nature of the Five Blades of Corusk are 
listed below for reference, although only the 
three found in this adventure are described in 
detail. They are ancient magical blades cre 
ated to function most powerfully as a group. 

All blades are resistant to magical scrying, 
although they confer no protection on their 
wielders in this regard. 


Basic Type 

+ 5 Defender, 
two-handed sword 
+ 3 Bastard sword 
+ 3 Scimitar 
j. R-^dsword 
.i,ui.g sword 


Characters and Weapons 

The weapons were made for certain types of 
characters-bard, ranger etc. The pregener 
ated PCs fit the bill for the best use of these 
weapons. If you use other PCs, approximate: 
Dreamsinger can be used by a rogue as well as 
a bard, for example, but its unique and 
strange behavior remains the same. 

The weapons also have alignments. Allow a 
"one place difference'' rule if you must stretch 
things-ror example, The Edge will allow any 
chaotic or true neutral character to use It. 

Dreamsinger , Broadsword 

Dreamsinger is a weapon created for a bard. 
It has a white steel blade and a platinum- 
filigree crosspiece and pommel set with fine 
moonstones. In the hands of anyone other 
than a barbarian bard, it is simply a + 1 magi 
cal sword. In the hands of a barbarian bard, it 
is a +3 weapon which also confers a - 1 bonus 
to AC and a + 1 bonus to all saving throws. 
There is one exception to this: the wielder of 
Dreamsinger has a - 1 penalty to saving 
throws versus Illusions and mind-affecting 
spells because of the strange mental effects of 
the weapon (see below), 

Dreamsinger allows a barbarian bard to cast 
spells from it. The spells ESP and augury are 


usable once per day each* and divination can 
be used once per week. The answers and infor 
mation gained should always be conveyed in a 
metaphor, simile* or allegory of some kind. 

Dreamsinger's Visions 

Dreamsinger communicates information 
about future events involving the quest for the 
Blades to its wielder, but only in a strange 
manner, Dreamsinger communicates in 
dreams* as its name suggests, and in these 
dreams the bard owning the weapon will 
sleepwalk and sing in his or her sleep. The 
song is in an unknown language and the sleep 
walker does not remember it* but fragments of 
the song remain in the mind. The DM should 
carefully use these dream fragments to tanta 
lize the PCs with hints about the later stages of 
the searches for the other Blades of Corusk. 

Periodically, Dreamsinger's wielder enters 
fugue states. Such a state is one of intense 
dreaminess in which awareness of the outside 
world is diminished. This means penalties of 
-3 to surprise rolls and - 1 to initiative rolls 
although, once combat has begun* the charac 
ter can operate normally. Such a fugue state is 
75% likely to occur on waking after a dream 
vision, for ld6 hours and 25% likely every 
other day for IdiO turns at a randomly chosen 
time of day (or a time deliberately selected by 
the DM as a staging device). 

Special Purpose and Power 

The special purpose of Dreamsinger is to 
locate the other Blades of Corusk. This should 
be interpreted fairly strictly by you. Dream 
singer should be close to another blade* or 
close to someone or something which has in 
formation about a Blade of Corusk, for its spe 
cial purpose power to operate. 

Dreamsinger has a vicious special purpose 
power. It launches a 10' long firespear of in 
tense burning power in any combat situation 
related to its special purpose. This lirespear is 
treated as a missile thrown by the wielder of 
the blade for hit purposes (maximum range 80 
yards). A successful hit inflicts 6d 10 points of 
damage. No saving throw is allowed* but 
magic resistance (against 20th level magic) 
applies and half damage will be sustained by a 
creature which is protected by a resist fire 


6 ! 



spelt a ring of fire resistance, or similar protec 
tion, The firespear can be launched up to twice 
per day, 

When the /Irespear is launched from Dream- 
singer a wave of sound ripples radiates out to a 
60' radius from it with a faint song of antiphony. 
This produces an effect equivalent to a prayer 
spell affecting the sword's user and his or her 
party positively and enemies negatively in the 
area of effect. This effect lasts for 6 + ld6 rounds. 

This special purpose power isn't communi 
cated to the wielder initially. Dream singer only 
makes it known when its special purpose is 
first aroused (see Chapter 2). 

Dreamsinger has an Intelligence of 14. com 
municates in its own special way (dreaming), 
and has an Ego of 12. 


Greenswathe , Scimitar 

Greenswathe is a strange looking weapon, 
almost arcane and alien. Il appears to be made 
of gold, but is as hard as adamantite. Peculiar 
arabesques and sigils are etched into the blade 
and decorate the handle. It has a single emer 
ald set into the pommel. 

Greenswathe is a weapon designed for a 
druid. In the hands of anyone else, it is simply a 
+1 scimitar. In the hands of a druid it is a +3 
weapon which also confers bonuses of -1 to AC 
and +1 to all saving throws. A druid possessing 
Greenswathe is allowed to cast one additional 
spell per day of each level he is capable of cast 
ing from the Plant or Animal sphere. 

Greenswathe has no special purpose, but it 
does have a special attack form usable once per 
day-the armor-piercing strike. On command. 
Greenswathe will simply sweep In an arc 
through armor as if it did not exist. A target is 
treated as having no armor, though any magical 
pluses are still counted. For example: if striking 
at a target in plate mail +3 which would nor 
mally have ACO. Greenswathe is treated as 
striking at a target with AC7 (AC 10. -3 for the 
magical bonus}. In addition, if the strike is suc 
cessful. Greenswathe inflicts ld3 times the 
usual amount of damage (between 4-11 and 12- 
33 points of damage to an M-sized target). 

The druid picking up Greenswathe will at 
once have the feeling that this weapon has 
further latent powers currently unknown to 
him or iter. 


Stalker , Longs word 

Sfa/fcer is an enigmatic and powerful 
weapon which reveals its full powers only in 
the hands of a ranger. To anyone else, it is sim 
ply a + 1 weapon. It is a slender long sword 
with a blue steel blade, but its hilt, pommel, 
and crosspiece are of the starkest black metal 
as hard as adamantite. If Stalker is stared at 
for any length of time, it seems to have wisps 
of shadowstuff moving silently along it, al 
though this is just illusory,,, or is it? 

Stalker is a +3 weapon when used by a 
ranger. The ranger gains a + 1 bonus to Wisdom 
and Intelligence when in possession of the blade. 
The ranger gains a +20% bonus to all Hide in 
Shadows and Move Silently attempts, and a +4 
bonus to his Tracking proficiency 

Stalker bequeaths an affinity with dogs and 
wolves on its wielder for an unknown reason. 
The ranger has a Charisma of 18 when dealing 
with dogs and wolves (not including worgs or 
winter wolves, nor "monsters" such as hell 
hounds). When holding Stalker the ranger can 
speak with animals (dogs and wolves only) 3 
times per day. 

The spells which can be used once per day 
each by Stalkers wielder: invisibility invisibif 
ity to animals , invisibility to undead. In the 
action of becoming invisible. Stalker's wielder 
seems to become shadowy and semi- 
translucent before he fades from sight. 

Stalker does have a special purpose, how 
ever. the sword does not choose to reveal it to 
its owner during this adventure, nor the na 
ture of its special purpose power. Stalker is an 
intelligent sword, with Int 14 and Ego 11, and 
communicates by empathy. 


Itanscendent Properties 

When Blades are brought together, their 
powers are greater than when they are apart. 
Powers which spring from a combining of the 
swords are called transcendent properties. In 
this adventure, only two such properties are 
noted: the magical sleep generated by Dream- 
singer and Greenswathe in the orcish city of 
Garel Enkdal. and the teleportation effect gen 
erated by these two together with Stalker. 
Other transcendent properties are detailed in 
later modules in this series. 



Dream Handouts 

Dream Handout 1 


You see a single swan (lying high over a deep 
green pine forest* The swan glides down on 
the air currents, wheeling around to descend 
to a glittering, pale blue bay. You sense that 
the swan has a purpose and knowledge, but 
just what she knows and exactly where she is 
heading you don't know* 


You see an arc of green color which slowly 
takes on form and clarity* It becomes a 
strange, curved, green sword which you see 
sweeping in an arc and cutting through armor 
as if it did not exist. You sense that, in the arc 
and sweep of the sword, there are echoes of 
the cycles of time, the ebb and flow of the sea 
sons, the bitterness of winter, and the explo 
sion of life in the spring. How such powerful 
feelings arise from a simple image of a moving 
sword you don't understand. 


You hear voices, voices raised in song, but this 
is much more than just hearing a song. This is 
the direct impression of music on the soul, the 
perfect harmonies of chants out of time, 
endless and spinning away into the eternal. 
The songs convey powerful feelings of a culmi 
nation and the initiation of a new cycle of af 
fairs, a beginning and an ending together... 


In a gloomy and oppressive set of caverns and 
passages you see armored and grim-faced ores 
- thousands and thousands of them. They are 
marching through the darkness and they 
stride out to the deep beats of some infernal 
drumming. Their eyes glow with malevolence 
and hatred. 

Dream Handout 5 

You have only a sensing this time, the sense of 
a barbarian King. He bears a great weapon, 
one which was borne by another and greater 
King in the far distant past. 


Dream Handout 6 

You see a huge, single eye of stone* The pupil 
suddenly turns black, the cornea blood red, 
shadows play around the eye* and a red tear 
drips from it. There is a powerful sense of evil 
about the eye. 

Dream Handout 7 

You have the sense of a barbarian king once 
more and a sense of distance-perhaps in 
space and time* It is not yet your time to deal 
with this vision. 

Dream Handout 8 

You sense the presence of another of the 
Blades of Corusk. It is obscured by flickering 
shadows and illusion and you do not see it 
clearly. You have a keen feeling of semi-reality, 
as if this Blade is elusive and other-worldly in 
some way. and hard for you to understand. 

Dream Handout 9 

You are walking through a great cavern with 
hundreds of ores rushing toward you. Their 
weapons are readied, and haired and bloodlust 
are etched in their faces. As they close in on 
you. they fait to the ground overcome by magi 
cal sleep. There is an echoing song in the air 
which has rendered them helpless. At the edge 
of your vision there is a fuzzy greenness which 
prevents you from focusing properly. You don't 
understand this, but you know that you must 
hasten onwards to a place of great evil where 
this power of inducing sleep will not avail you 
to face ores far more powerful than those you 
have just overcome. 

Dream Handout 10 

You seek the Blade of Corusk In the orcish city. 
It is plunged into blackness. You shiver, sens 
ing bitter cold and blackness numbing you. 

You see an image of a black obelisk stretching 
into the gloom of an infernal cavern and you 
sense undead creatures and evil magic at 
work. 


Dream Handout 2 


Dream Handout 3 


Dream handout 4 





jay Ihmmehtm, one of the RPGA* Network *z top-rankedjudgn, rum a Tirrwnastn tournament at thi\ 
year j GEN CON* Game Fait 


Can You Take the Ultimate 
Role-Playing Challenge? 


Only dedicated players 


n UMOR HAS IT that of almost 12,000 
/\ gamers who Applied for Ft PGA 1 * Network 
membership at the 1990 GEN CON* Game j Fair, 
only 200 were aecepled Nv, that's impossible. 
Only 10,000people could ha tie applied - 2,000 uj 
the gamer t were already members 


It draws thousands of players-including 
the country'll best. 


Join more than 8,000 top-notchrd players 
in ihr world's best gaining network. For 
more information or to join, call us at 
I -BOO-558'5977. 


CAN YOU IMAGINE RUNNING game 
demonstrations, speaking at conventions 
and meetings, nr even starting new dubs in 
your aiea? The Network has more than 30 
dubs from Canberra (Australia) to Califor 
nia and Canada to Cambridge (England) 


All kidding aside, hundreds of game players 
joined the RPGA Network at the Game 
Fair-and fur a number of great reasons, 
for instance , . 


CAN YOU IMAGINE BECOMING one 
of the RPGA Network's select regional di 
rectors? Only 22 directors exist, and they 
promote role-playing around the world, 


CAN YOU IMAGINE PUBLISHING 
your own story/gamr in POLYHEDRON 1- 
Ncwjizinr-thaf over 8,000 gainers world 
wide will read? 


CAN YOU IMAGINE GETTING all of 
this, getting magazines, special member 
discounts, and the camaraderie of dozens of 
players from around your area for just $ S 
per year? 


CAN YOU IMAGINE JUDGING RPGA 
Network sanctioned tonmaments at the 
world's largest gaming convention? 


and - dBHgsfialfl foademgrts o"wwo Of TSn r Inc. 

















Mmmwmmmt 

tsmmmmsmmm 

mwmmmmmmmi 


AniBUSh in 
Rooknoost 


111i(>," oo HOOf of EUlllQlflQ 


Amts 


Bandit fiqhto?s 


Z zombie 
G hrll Giant 

F female in fOQCBCX# map 


One square = i o feet 


Ma mage (victim of assault) 


One squARe = lOfeet 


BAPflAPiAn ItAOeu 




'ttevonO .nevpenb 


| 3 WstS>\j 


SennmqfoRO 


king 6 om&- 


>6m's map: JouRney 
to the Shadow CaveRns 


rna^sakccp 


al ivOuolir. 


kROOSt 


1 hex = 10 miles 
























MONSTER STATISTICS CHART 


Name 

Annis 

Badger, Giant 

Bandit: Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

AL 

CE 

N 

E 

E 

E 

E 

AC 

0 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

MV 

15 

6, Br 3 

9 

9 

9 

9 

HD 

7 + 7 

3 

3 

4 

5 

6 

hp 

41 

15 

17 

24 

30 

36 

THAC0 

9/12 

17 

17 

16 

15 

14 

#AT 

3 

3 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Dmg 

9-16/9-16/3-9 

t-3/1-3/1-6 

W+ 1(2-9) 

W +1(2-9) 

W +1(2-9) 

W +1(2-9) 

SA 

Y 

N 

N 

N 

N 

N 

SD 

Y 

N 

N 

N 

N 

N 

sz 

L 

M 

M 

M 

M 

M 

ML 

ts 

8 

12 

12 

13 

13 

Book 

MC 

MC 

Bear, brown 

N 

S 

12 

5 + 5 

28 

15 

3 

1-6/1-6/1-8 

Y 

N 

L 

9 

MC 

Bear, cave 

N 

6 

12 

6 + 6 

34 

15 

3 

1-8/1-8/1-12 

Y 

N 

H 

10 

MC 

Beetle, stag 

N 

3 

6 

7 

44 

13 

3 

4-16/1-10/1-10 

N 

N 

L 

13 

MC 

Bugbear 

CE 

5 

9 

3 + 1 

16 

17 

1 

2d4 or W 

Y 

N 

L 

12 

MC 

Crystalmist 

N 

7 

FI 6 

n/a 

50 

13 

1 

1d6 

Y 

Y 

T 

11 

MCG 

Dwarf 

LG 

4 

6 

1 

7 

20 

1 

W(1-8) 

Y 

Y 

M 

13 

MC 

Ettin 

CE 

3 

12 

10 

52 

10 

2 

1-10/2-12 +W or 
2-16/3-18 

N 

Y 

H 

14 

MC 

Rind 

LE 

5 

12 

2 + 3 

12 

17 

1 

1-6 or 1-4 

Y 

N 

M 

12 

MC 

Galeb Duhr, 8HD 

N 

-2 

6 

8 

40 

13 

2 

2-16/2-16 

Y 

Y 

L 

17 

MC 

Galeb Duhr, 10HD 

N 

-2 

6 

10 

50 

11 

2 

4-24/4-24 

Y 

Y 

L 

17 

MC 

Ghoul 

CE 

6 

9 

2 

8 

19 

3 

1-3/1 -3/1 -6 

Y 

Y 

M 

11 

MC 

Giant, hill 

CE 

3 

12 

12 + 1 

55 

i 

1 

1-6 or 9-19 

Y 

N 

H 

13 

MC 

Giant, stone 

N 

0 

12 

14 + 1 

65 

7 

1 

1-8 or 10-20 

Y 

Y 

H 

16 

MC 

Giant-kin, Verbeeg 

NE 

4 

18 

5+5 

30 

15 

2 

5-10/5-10 

N 

N 

L 

13 

MC 

Gnotl 

CE 

5 

9 

2 

10 

19 

1 

W(2-8) 

N 

N 

L 

11 

MC 

Goblin 

LE 

6 

6 

1-1 

4 

20 

1 

W(1-6) 

N 

N 

S 

10 

MC 

Griffon 

N 

3 

12, FI 30 

7 

36 

13 

3 

1-4/1-4/2-16 

N 

N 

L 

12 

MC 

Hangman Tree 

NE 

3/5 

0 

6+90 

152 

7 

3 

14 

Y 

Y 

G 

15 

MC 

Harpy 

CE 

7 

6, FI 15 

fcv 

30 

13 

3 

1-3/1 -3/1-6 

Y 

N 

M 

13 

MC 

Hobgoblin 

LE 

5 

9 

1+1 

6 

19 

1 

W(1-8) 

N 

N 

M 

11 

MC 

Lion, mountain 

N 

6 

12 

3 + 1 

16 

17 

3 

1-3/1-3/1-6 

Y 

Y 

M 

9 

MC 

Lion, spotted 

N 

5/6 

12 

6+2 

30 

15 

3 

1-4/1-4/1-12 

Y 

Y 

L 

9 

MC 

Mongrelman 

LN 

5 

9 

3 

15 

17 

1 

1-8 or W 

N 

Y 

M 

12 

MC 

Ogre 

CE 

5 

9 

4 + 1 

20 

17 

1 

2-12 (d10 + 2) 

N 

N 

L 

11 

MC 

Ogre leader 

CE 

3 

9 

7 

32 

13 

1 

5-15 

N 

N 

L 

12 

MC 

Ogre mage 

Ore: 

CE 

4 

9, FI 15 

5 + 2 

28 

15 

1 

1-12 

Y 

IS! 

L 

14 

MC 

Fighting 

LE 

6 

9 

1 

5 

19 

1 

W(1-6) 

N 

N 

M 

12 

MC 

Ordinary 

LE 

10 

12 

1 

3 

19 

1 

W(1-6) 

N 

N 

M 

10 

MC 

Phalanx 

LE 

4 

9 

3 

15 

17 

1 

W+ 2 (3-10) 

N 

N 

M 

14 

MC 

Phalanx chief 

LE 

4 

9 

4 

20 

17 

1 

W+3 (4-11) 

N 

IM 

M 

14 

MC 

Serjeant 

LE 

4 

9 

2 

11 

19 

t 

W+1 (2-9) 

N 

N 

M 

13 

MC 

Shaman-1 

LE 

6 

9 

1 

5 

19 

1 

W(1-8) 

Y 

N 

M 

12 


Shaman-2 

LE 

5 

9 

1 +d4 

8 

19 

1 

W(1-B) 

Y 

N 

M 

12 


Shaman-3 

LE 

5 

9 

11 

1 +2d4 

19 

1 

W(1-8) 

Y 

N 

M 

13 


Shaman-4 

LE 

4 

9 

1 +3d4 

15 

17 

1 

W +1 (2-9) 

Y 

N 

M 

14 


Witchdoctor-1 

LE 

10 

12 

1 

5 

19 

1 

W(1-4) 

Y 

N 

M 

12 


Witchdoctor-2 

LE 

10 

12 

1 +d4 

8 

19 

1 

W(1-4) 

Y 

N 

M 

12 


Orog 

LE 

4 

6 

3 

16 

17 

1 

W + 1 (2-11) 

H 

N 

M 

14 

MC 

Orog leader 

LE 

4 

6 

4 

22 

17 

1 

W+ 2 (3-12) 

H 

N 

M 

14 

MC 

Pseudodragon 

NG 

2 

6, FI 24 

2 

15 

19 

1 

1-3+ special 

Y 

Y 

T 

15 

MC 

Shadow 

CE 

7 

12 

3 + 3 

16 

17 

1 

2-5+ special 

Y 

Y 

M 

Sp 

MC 

Shadow, slow 

CE 

8 

12 

4 

28 

17 

1 

1-4 + special 

Y 

Y 

M 

Sp 

MCG 

Snake, poisonous 

N 

6 

15 

2 + 1 

10 

19 

1 

1 + special 

Y 

H 

S 

8 

MC 

Spectre 

LE 

2 

15, FI 30 

7+3 

43 

13 

1 

1-8+ special 

Y 

Y 

M 

15 

MC 

Taer 

N 

4 

18 

3 + 6 

20 

17 

1 or 3 

W+3 (3-11) or 
1-6/1-4/1-4 

Y 

Y 

M 

11 

MCG 

Treant 

CG 

0 

12 

10 

55 

11 

2 

3-18/3-18 

Y 

Y 

H 

15 

MC 

Troll 

CE 

4 

12 

6 + 6 

33 

13 

3 

5-8/5-8/5-12 

Y 

Y 

L 

14 

MC 

Troll, copper 

CE 

1 

12 

6+6 

48 

13 

3 

5-8/5-8/5-12 

N 

Y 

L 

Sp 

WG 

Troll, two-headed 

CE 

4 

12 

10 

45 

11 

4 

5-8/5-8/1-12/1-12 

Y 

Y 

L 

16 

MC 

Tyrg 

CN 

5 

10 

7 

33 

13 

1 

1-12 

Y 

Y 

L 

13 

MCG 

Urd 

NE 

8 

6, FI 15 

3 

14 

17 

1 

1-3 or W(1-4) 

Y 

N 

S 

7 

MC 

Wight 

LE 

5 

12 

4+3 

22 

15 

1 

1-4+ special 

Y 

Y 

M 

14 

MC 




the Shadow 
Caverns 

One square - VO feel 


the mages Bay home 

One squAPe = 10 feet 


MONSTER STATISTICS CHART 


Name 

AL 

AC 

MV 

HD 

hp 

THACO 

Wolf 

N 

7 

18 

2 + 2 

it 

19 

Wolfwere 

CE 

3 

15 

5 + 1 

28 

15 

Worg 

NE 

6 

18 

3 + 3 

16 

17 

Wraith 

LE 

4 

12, FI 24 

5 + 3 

28 

15 

Wyvern 

NE 

3 

6, FI 24 

7 + 7 

44 

13 

Yeth Hound 

NE 

0 

15, FI 27 

3 + 3 

18 

17 

Zombie 

N 

6 

6 

2 

10 

19 


*AT 

Dmg 

SA 

SD 

SZ 

ML 

Book 

1 

2-5 

N 

N 

s 

10 

MC 

t or 2 

2-12+ W(1 -8) 

Y 

Y 

M 

14 

MC 

1 

2-8 

N 

IM 

M 

11 

MC 

1 

1-6+ special 

Y 

Y 

M 

15 

MC 

2 

2-161-6 + 
special 

Y 

N 

G 

14 

MC 

1 

2-8 

Y 

Y 

M 

19 

MCG 

1 

1-8 

N 

Y 

M 

Sp 

MC 


W = Weapon 

MC = Monstrous Compendium 

MCG = GREYHAWK(r) Monstrous Compendium 





























iiiixx 














































CjAT6 

SecRet Poor 

Stamway (arrow points down) 

Rockfall 

RlV€R 

Lake/pool 















































temple 


XX XX 


xx*frx 


xxxxxxx 





































xxxxx 


- 

City of the Orcs ^ 


One hex = 50 yaR6s 
encounteR stRenqth values 
- 1 ORCish pquRe 
^ = l laRqeR fiquRe (oRoq/oqRe) 
loo = BaRRacks with numBeR of tRoops denoted 





































To the Uni 


kARAStg 


pORlORn 



































Hf /" \ 7 \ / v /> 
>_/ /- 1 )-( )-\ }-\ 


hol6 of Stonepst 

f v / 


^H^hCrQi 

White fanqed Bay 


Vs home 


i 
























&Rea map ^ 


M991 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


9317XXX0701 


One hex = 30 miles 
IJkAi mountains 
hills 
Swamp 
foRest 


mm P ,ne f° Rest 








































Official Game Adventure 


Five Shall Be One 

by Carl Sargent 


Adventure in the world of Greyhawk! 

Powerful forces are set in motion as your party 
searches for the legendary Blades of Co rusk. Take 
them on the perilous journey from Rookroost to the 
Lair of the Shadow Dragon in the frozen northlands. 
Will they survive the ramifications of events that 
they have initiated? Those who hold the magical 
blades will not easily give them up. Plucking them 
from the grasp of a jealous dragon or stealing them 
from the center of the subterranean City of the Ore 
Horde will strain your adventurers to their limits! 

Designed to be played alone or with the adventure WGS2, A Howl from the North, 
Five Shall Be One is suitable for four to eight players who are 7th to 10th level. 



TSR, Inc, L. I . TSR Ltd. 

POB 756 " TM 120 Church End 

Lake Geneva Cherry Hinton 

Wl 53147 Cambridge CB1 3LB 

U.S.A. United Kingdom 

TSR, Inc. 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, and GHEYHAWK are registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 
The TSR logo Is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. -1991 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Printed in the U.S.A. 


ISBN 1-56076-070-2 



$9.95 

£6.50 

9317XXX1401 



















