Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 01120 AD& D Accessory FR Ruins Of Zhentil Keep"
See other formats
-- 


* 


r___ jA 


Advanced 





ilrt -¦•*! .•^Ufc- . imp' ' > 4- ' r*./ "• fif 





























1 • 1 ' 7 ! ¦ ; ; , r . 

r li 

OjjfM-i*' '-J,S 

-. --- 





c y r - k 

'¦ j ; " nVi 

IBaSf/ ,• 

¦ 

wl A- P | 


By Kevin MelJka and John Terra 































Ru)kjs of 

ZbewTiL Keep 


Campaign Boole 



Kevlw MeLka aw6 John Tbrra 



















































Cn.eb)ts 

Ruins of Zhentil Keep Campaign Book Design: Kevin Melka and John Terra 

Ruins of Zhentil Keep Campaign Book Additional Design: David "Zeb" Cook and Ed Greenwood 

Monstrous Compendium(r) Booklet Design: Kevin Melka and John Terra 

Card Design: Kevin Melka 

Developing and Editing: Julia Martin 

Cover Art: Fred Fields 

Ruins of Zhentil Keep Campaign Book Interior Illustration: Scott Rosema 
Monstrous Compendium(r) Booklet Illustration: Jim Butler 
New Card Illustration: Eric Hotz 

Color Cartography: Dennis Kauth and David L. Sutherland III 
Cartography: Diesel 

Card Cartography: Diesel and David C. Sutherland III 
Monstrous Compendium(r) Booklet Typesetting: Nancy Kerkstra 
Typesetting: Angelika Lokotz 
Production: Paul Hanchette 


Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, Dungeon Master, Monstrous Compendium, Polyhedron, and 
Forgotten Realms are registered trademarks owned 
by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 

All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by 
TSR, Inc. 

(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for 
English language products. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is pro 
hibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

1120XXX1901 


TSR, Inc. 
201 Sheridan Springs Rd. 

Lake Geneva 


WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


2 














CowTeioTs 


Sage's Advice.4 

Using Zhentil Keep.5 

Pre- or Post-Purge.6 

History of Zhentil Keep.7 

Founding Fathers.7 

The Coming of Zhentar.8 

To Honor the Dead.8 

Character Growth.10 

The Night Plague.11 

War and Trade.12 

The Lord-Princes.13 

Manshoon, 

Master of the Zhentarim.14 

Troubled Times.15 

The Citadel of the Raven.16 

The Ogres of Thar.17 

Years of Expansion.17 

Counterattacked.19 

The Taking of the Citadel.19 

The Time of Troubles.20 

Keeping the Faith.21 

The Banedeath.21 

The Consolidation.23 

The Realignment.23 

The Year of Discord.23 

Cyric's Plan.24 

The Death of Lord Chess.24 

Strife in the City of Strife.24 

The Destruction of the Keep.25 

Endgame .25 

The Trouble with Deserters.26 

Zhentil Keep Now.26 

The Death Toll.27 

The True Timeline 

of Zhentil Keep.27 

The Zhentarim.31 

Goals of the Black Network.31 

The Zhentarim 

(organizational diagram).32 

The Secret History.32 

The Inner Circle.34 

Bases of the Black Network.34 

Zhentil Keep.34 

Darkhold.35 

Zhentarim Tactics 

at Darkhold (sidebar) ....36 

Citadel of the Raven.36 

Opposition.27 

The Mir (sidebar).37 


Allies.40 

Zhentarim Agents 

and Activities.41 

Typical Zhentilar Outpost 

(map).42 

The Blood Axe 

Smashers (sidebar).43 

Joing the Black Network.48 

So You Want to 

Live Forever.49 

Zhentil Keep -Then 

(Circa 1357 DR) .50 

The Time Period.50 

Overview of the Keep .51 

Common Quarter.51 

Harbor District.52 

Typical Zhentilar Squad 

(sidebar).52 

Foreign Quarter.53 

Inner Quarter.53 

Society in Zhentil Keep.54 

The Working Class.55 

The Middle Class.55 

The Nobity and the Lords.55 

Life of a Zhent.55 

Entertainment.56 

Family Life.56 

Taxes.57 

Justice.57 

The Magistrate.57 

Bribery.58 

Power Groups.59 

Rulers of Zhentil Keep.61 

Puppet Lords.64 

Faiths of the Keep.64 

Church of Bane.65 

The Black Altar (map).66 

Church of Loviatar.68 

Cult of Malar the Beastlord.68 

Less Influential Powers.69 

Tempus, Lord of Battles.69 

Auril, the Frostmaiden.69 

Umberlee, 

the Bitch Queen.69 

Tymora, Lady of Luck.69 

Places of Interest.69 

Inns.70 

Taverns .71 

Towers, Temples, and Halls.72 

Fzoul's Tower (map).73 


Shops and Services.74 

The Tower High (map).75 

Zhentil Keep -Now 

(Post-1368 DR).76 

The Time Period.76 

Recent Events.76 

Overview of the New Keep.77 

Trade.78 

The Keep's New Defenses.78 

Life in the New Keep.79 

Press Gangs (sidebar) .79 

Zhentish Slang (sidebar) .80 

City Scenes.80 

Power Groups in the New Keep. ..81 
Wizards' Guild Rules (sidebar) ...82 

The Ruler.82 

Faiths of the New Keep.84 

Building Key.85 

The Shape of Things to Come .. .103 
Enemy Actions.105 

Hall of Knaves.106 

Desmonda.106 

Eshaeris.106 

Fzoul Chembryl.107 

Lord Orgauth.108 

Abarax.109 

Manshoon of the Zhentarim.110 

Semmemon of Darkhold.Ill 

Appendix I: 

New Realms Powers.113 

Cyric.113 

Iyachtu Xvim.114 

Kelemvor.116 

Mask.118 

Other Gods.119 

The Quick and the Dead.119 

Appendix II: New Spells.120 

Priest Spells.120 

Wizard Spells.123 

APPENDIX III: Magical Items .125 

Albruin .125 

Battle Gorget .126 

Bone Mask .126 

The Cyrinishad .127 

Gargoyle Cloak .128 

Mace of Darkness .128 











































































































































Sage's Advice 


the pipe again. I always know when Elminster is around, even if he 
does arrive unannounced. The rooms reek of pipe smoke, and it takes 
me literally days to air things out again. 

Sure enough, there he was, pulled up in my biggest carved wood 
chair, with his feet casually propped on the hearth. Of course, it was 
summer, so there wasn't the usual blaze going. In fact, even with all the windows open 
it was still hot enough inside. It was almost a relief to see that even the great Elminster 
perspired. 

"Greetings to ye, lad. Would ye care to join me in a cool draft of Saerloonian Spe 
cial Vat? I confess to finding it in your cellar." The eminent mage took the top sheet 
from a sheaf of a handbills on the table. "You have been hard at work, it would appear. 
'Citizens of Cormyr-)'" 

"It's a proclamation from King Azoun," I explained as I sank, glass in hand, into the 
other chair. "It's getting posted all over the kingdom. It's a warning about agents from 
Zhentil Keep. Basically it says they are supposed to be captured or, failing that, killed 
on sight. . . ." 

"And, stripling?" the mage asked, noting my pause. 

"It seems rather harsh." 

Elminster puffed on his pipe and blew the smoke at an annoying cloud of gnats 
drifting in through the open window. "Harsh would all depend on whether your good 
king means Zhent or Zhentarim here. The good folk of Shadowdale say 'Kill a Zhen- 
tarim on sight. He'd do the same for you. ' They have a few other choice sayings, too, 
like 'Mind the barn when it's full, not empty,' and - " 

"As direct as Elminster," I could not resist adding. 

"The proper expression is 'As wise as Elminster,"' the mage growled. He paused to 
sip at his wine, letting me stew before he continued. "The point is Dalesmen aren't 
given to bloodthirst, mind ye. It's just that they've had more clashes with the Black 
Network than most, and there's a difference 'twixt a Zhent and a Zhentarim." 

With that twinkle in his eye that says he's got a tale to tell, Elminster leaned for 
ward. "I know a little of the mysteries of Zhentil Keep and the Zhentarim. Such 

knowledge has great usefulness in Shadowdale. If ye he willing, I shall tell ye the little 
I know. 

"Knowledge of Zhentil Keep has come a little easier now, ever since the Day of 
Cyric's Reckoning. Refugees from the shattered Keep have made their way south, 
bringing with them many of the Keep's darkest secrets. 

"There can be no understanding of Zhentil Keep without understanding its groups. 
The first thing any scholar of the Keep must know is the difference between the 
Zhents, the Zhentilar, and the Zhentarim. It only seems like a slight difference of 

spelling, but that difference has confounded many a would-be sage." Elminster chuck 

led at the thought and blew another curl of smoke toward the gnat-filled window. I 
sipped my wine and waited for him to continue. 

"None of the three are pleasant, mind ye, but some are more dangerous than others. 
The least likely to be dangerous of the lot is a Zhent, which is a way to say anybody 
from the blasted Keep. Many of these citizens have taken to the road since Cyric's 
downfall -at least those who were lucky enough to escape the city. Now, a Zhent is 
not automatically a Zhentilar or a Zhentarim, but they are all Zhents. 

"The Zhentilar are who a person meets most often outside the walls of Zhentil 



















Keep -and they are the most obvious threat to the 
lands of the south. Ye see, the Zhentilar are the swords 
and spells of Zhentil Keep, the soldiers and mages that 
are the armies of the Zhents. Good king Azoun and his 
Purple Dragons have fought the Zhentilar more than a 
few times, and even I, Elminster, have faced them 
down in Shadowdale. But here's more to the riddle -a 
Zhentilar is a Zhent, but he is not assured to be a Zhen- 
tarim." 

Elminster drew in a mouthful of sweet smoke from 
his pipe and set it aside for a taste of wine. The pipe 
puffed contentedly by itself until he reached to take it 
up again. "The Zhentarim are the most dangerous of 
this wicked lot. They can be found anywhere, not just 
in Zhentil Keep. In some cities they are called the 
Black Network, and it is a name that well suits them. 

"In theory the Zhentarim serve only one master: 
Manshoon, Lord of the Zhentarim." Elminster's lips 
curled with a tinge of distaste at that name. "Man 
shoon built the Zhentarim years ago as his own net 
work of spies and assassins. He was just setting himself 
up as High Lord of the Keep and did not trust his fellow 
Zhents or Zhentilar. Now there is a point I agree with 
him on. There is a saying in Mulmaster taverns that 
'Fear and loyalty are the same word.' The Red Cloaks 
know quite a bit about that, too. There was a time 
when I - " 

I unsubtly coughed, and Elminster stopped to gaze at 
me with irritation. 

"I was about to say," the mage archly continued, 
"that 1 saw an entire Zhentilar patrol change sides as 
soon as their Zhentarim commander was killed. Not 
that it did them much good, because when word 
reached the Zhentarim, everyone in that patrol was 
hunted down and slain as an example to others." 

"As long as Manshoon stays strong, the Zhentarim 
are loyal to him, or at least most of them are. Like every 
Zhent, they are ambitious and scheme against them 
selves almost as much as they do the outside world. 
There is always at least one plot festering against Man 
shoon, hut I do not think he will fall to one of his 
underlings. He has been known to disappear for a 
time -why. I've even spread rumors of his death just so 
his enemies, or allies, would tip their hands." 

"The other thing that marks the Black Network as 
different from the Zhentilar is its goal. The Zhentilar 
are soldiers and mages, eager to conquer an empire for 
Zhentil Keep. The Zhentarim are subtler. They know 
Cormyr, Sembia, and the others would ally to fight the 
threat of Zhentilar soldiers. They remember the last 


time Zhentil Keep tried this. 

"The Zhentarim goal is to control the trade of all 
the Dalelands and beyond. To do this, they work in the 
shadows. It is hard for the Purple Dragons to crush an 
enemy that does not take the field against them. The 
Zhentarim corrupt officials, terrorize caravans, and 
charm merchants into setting prices the Zhentarim 
like." 

I set down my glass and gestured toward the hand 
bills. "A few spies and intriguers hardly seems worth 
such a harsh response, though." 

Elminster sighed, finished his glass, and rose to go. 
"Such is the cunning of the Black Network. Do ye 
remember when the price of grain jumped a year ago?" 
He didn't expect an answer from me. "Now, why did 
that happen? Perhaps it was because just a month later 
Sembian troops were to move on a series of Zhentarim 
strongholds - until the price of grain went up and the 
cost of feeding all those soldiers and horses was more 
than the Sembians were willing to risk on the venture. 

"And what if all goods were controlled by the Black 
Network, lad?" Elminster added with a final fillip as he 
prepared his spell to leave. "That is why the good folk 
of the Dalelands fear the Zhentarim." 

Us)wg ZhewTiL Keep 

K now ye that Zhentil Keep is a major player in the 
intrigues and wars of the lands north of the 
Dales. Much has been hinted about it and little 
explained. This boxed set lays out for the DM the true 
story of Zhentil Keep: its history, people, places, ambi 
tions, wonders, and terrors. The information here 
doesn't limit itself to Zhentil Keep; that would only 
give a partial picture of the threat to the north. This 
boxed set also describes the related Zhentarim, the 
shadowy Black Network, and its efforts to undermine 
and dominate lands throughout the Realms. Though 
Zhent and Zhentarim are not one and the same, their 
paths are so entwined that is it impossible to talk about 
one and not the other. 

It is arrogance to believe that the scope of Zhentish 
life and ambition can be contained, frozen to a particu 
lar moment, however. From lord to drudge, the people 
of Zhentil Keep are a slippery and scheming lot. 
Thwarted in one direction, they artfully shift blame, 
deny intentions, and retarget their ambitions. It is a 
pattern true in both their plots and their daily lives. 
Zhentil Keep grows without city planning as traders, 
innkeepers, and craftsfolk build according to their 




5 











Zhentil Keep before 1368 DR, viewed from across the Tesh. 


need. The plots of the Zhentarim in Darkhold are not 
the plots of the Zhentarim in Yulash. 

Thus, this boxed set does not try to give an absolute 
accounting of every street in Zhentil Keep or every 
Zhentarim in the Black Network. It is like a pho 
tograph that is clear and understandable when viewed 
as a whole, but where not everything is in perfect focus. 
Specific areas of Zhentil Keep are described in detail; 
specific goals are presented with care; specific adven 
tures are provided. More is left for the DM to fill and 
expand. 

Within this box are three booklets. This one, the 
Campaign Guide, is the sourcebook of information 
about Zhentil Keep. It contains background history, 
land and city descriptions, businesses, temples, trea 
sures, spells, and NPCs. The second book, the Adven 
ture Book, contains three adventures that take charac 
ters into Zhentil Keep or pit them against the schemes 
of the Zhentarim elsewhere in the Realms. 

The third booklet contains new monsters. Some of 


these are the handiwork of the Zhentish mages; others 
are fell allies to the Zhents in their plots to control the 
North. More than a few are the products of deities or 
the consequences of dealing with them. Zhentil Keep 
has had a tumultuous relationship with the powers of 
Faerun, and it bears the scars to prove it. 

In addition to the booklets, this boxed set contains 
three maps showing Zhentil Keep, the surrounding 
area, and specific sites under the control of the Zhen 
tarim. Eight cards present other information useful to 
the DM, such as encounter tables, sigils, and places of 
interest. 

Pne-on PosX-Punge 

noted before, Zhentil Keep's interactions with 

the Realms' powers have been spectacularly 
tumultuous. Three times in recent memory have major 
temples of the city been melted, sacked, or blasted. In 
the third blow, described in the novel Prince of Lies, 
neither was the rest of the city spared. So great was the 
destruction following the mad god Cyric's downfall 
that Zhentil Keep was a city no more. Its walls and 
gates shattered, its houses crushed, most of Zhentil 
Keep is currently a smoldering ruin overrun by ores, 
frost giants, and things more foul. 

But it does not have to be that way. DMs do not 
have to use the destroyed Zhentil Keep if they do not 
want to. Two Zhentil Keeps are presented here -the 
city at the height of its strength, following the Time of 
Troubles, and the city as it is following Cyric's down 
fall. DMs can choose to use the Zhentil Keep they most 
prefer. One is a living city, a formidable nest of intrigue 
and villainy, the heart of a thousand plots to conquer 
the Realms. The other is a dangerous ruin, rumored to 
be full of sinister magic, stolen treasures, and stalking 
horrors. The first is well suited to those who like cam 
paigns of role-playing, wits, and plots upon plots. The 
second situation is perfect for those who like exploring 
ruins, although in this case they are far from forgotten 
or abandoned. War is still being fought in the rubble- 
strewn streets of Zhentil Keep. 

The choice of Zhentil Keeps is not even limited to 
one or the other. Enterprising DMs can begin their 
campaign with the Zhentil Keep that existed after the 
Time of Troubles and play their campaign through and 
beyond the events described in Prince of Lies. A break 
down of the story's events - inasmuch as they affect 
Zhentil Keep and the rest of the Realm -is given in 
this book for DMs to use. 

































HisToRy of 
Zbewfil Keep 

T7/e following history is courtesy of that great mage Elminster, as recorded by one of his most diligent 
scribes, Ed Greenwood. Portions of this history first appeared in POLYHEDRON(r) Newszine. 

hentil Keep was the first human city to be built on the northern side of the 
Moonsea, and it has become the richest and most powerful habitation in the 
area, rivaling Suzail and the cities of Sembia. It has been called, at times, Thar- 
gate Keep, because it stands between the eastern Heartlands to the south and 
Thar. Metal mined in the Moonsea north was worked into finished goods here, 
then sold throughout the Moonsea, making the Keep a wealthy place throughout its history. In 
its early days, the city drew trade from the dwarves of the Iron House, who sent metal down the 
valley of the Tesh from the mines of Tethyamar. Other human settlements to the east -includ 
ing Phlan, Melvaunt, and Thentia -had to fight the ogres who ruled Thar, and they did not 
prosper so rapidly. 

Seven hundred years ago, Zhentil Keep was a mining and trading camp on the north bank of 
the mouth of the Tesh. It had no ruler, nor did it have permanent inhabitants. Rival caravan 
masters enforced their own authority with the swords of the forces they commanded, and often 
they met their deaths under the teeth and weapons of ogres, ores, trolls, and other fearsome crea 
tures who raided the unfortified camps at night in search of easy prey. It would have remained 
that way, too, were it not for the driving ambition of greed. 

Fouhob)tog FAthens 

O ne hundred years after the first records of the trading camp that became Zhentil Keep, an 
enterprising ship owner of Chancelgaunt decided to build a proper dock and a stone 
walled warehouse. This was a major undertaking, since the structures were to be located so far 
from civilized lands. Knowing that his investment required protection, the ship owner also raised 
an earthen embankment around the infant settlement. This man, Orlephar Flostren, was shrewd 
enough to not only expect bandits and unscrupulous rivals to attack his new stronghold (as well 
as the ores and ogres that infested the area), but also knew that success would only come with 
order. He hired mercenary guards, not only to protect the workers who built the place (then 
called Flostren's Hold), but to defend the walls, police the streets, and patrol the surrounding 
area. Warning beacons were established to the east and north of the settlement. 

Flostren's preparations were both wise and necessary. The Hold survived several heavy 
goblinkin attacks, proving its worth in its first season. With the next spring, a dozen Sembian 
merchants, mildly astonished that Flostren's Folly (as it was also called) had actually sur 
vived, offered Flostren 240,000 pieces of gold - a vast sum in the Inner Sea north in those 
days -for all rights to the site and the surrounding land. Flostren accepted, even though he 
had no legal claim to the land. He died rich and happy, of natural causes, some 27 winters 
later, leaving the bulk of his wealth hidden somewhere in Sembia. (It has never, if local lore 
tells the truth, been found.) 

This consortium of merchants set out upon an energetic building program. (Twelve mer 
chants could hardly fit their businesses into Flostren's small keep.) To finance this expansion and 
to recoup the costs of their purchase, they built beyond their needs and leased the excess space 
and dock rights to all interested merchants. And there were many interested merchants, thanks 




7 




















to tales told of gullible dwarves and stories of freshly won 
dragon hoards brought from the mountains nearby. That 
these accounts had suddenly become very popular with min 
strels who wandered the trade routes probably had more to do 
with Sembian gold than the quality of the tales themselves. 
Nonetheless, merchants from nearly all of the coastal cities 
on the Sea of Fallen Stars laid out their coins to do business in 
Flostren's Hold. 

The settlement soon had a gigantic, ring-shaped, many- 
towered wall paid for by the income from the newly arrived 
merchants. A large, but plain, keep was raised in the north 
west quarter to house a defensive garrison. The shrewdest of 
the 12 founding merchants, Elephstron, moved into the 
keep immediately, proclaiming himself to be Lord of the 
Keep. This did not sit well with the others. Elephstron had 
the cunning of a statesman, though. When his 11 partners 
confronted him, he smoothly suggested that they could all 
assume the title of Lords of the City, while artfully reserving 
the title Lord of the Keep for himself. As lords, he pointed 
out, they could enact laws, establish taxation, and structure 
a policing force to their own advantage. In a stroke, he had 
mollified his partners and even united them into the 
absolute govermnent of the city -all under his "benevo 
lent" guidance. 

All the space within the walls was sold or leased during 
the first season. Buildings grew visibly with each passing day, 
and Elephstron and his partners planned where and how to 
expand the town. Their patrols had strict orders to keep the 
land around the wails free of buildings and to break up 
encampments lasting more than six nights-forcibly, if nec 
essary. As the settlement grew, there were several nasty skir 
mishes between the forces of the lords and the lesser mer 
chants. To the lords, expanding a warehouse across a street 
to wall in a competitor - and similar such tactics-just 
made good business sense. Although the tradespeople bris 
tled at being told how to conduct their businesses, the lords 
made the laws. 

The ComiMg 
of ZhetoTAK 


others would come to learn at the feet of such a wizard, thus 
strengthening the town's defenses. 

In far-off Westgate Elephstron met a mage, one Zhentar, 
who impressed him and was interested in his offer. Zhentar 
was firm, though, on one condition-that he become a lord 
equal to any of the Twelve. To sway the decision on this 
point, Zhentar proposed that the lords form themselves into 
a formal council, thus increasing their legitimate claim as 
rulers of the Hold. With only a few misgivings, the Twelve 
accepted Zhentar's terms. 

Zhentar's land of birth and training in magecraft is 
unknown. Some rumors place his origin in Halruaa, land of 
wizards; other tales claim he was the last living mage from 
ancient Narfell. The truth, if there is one, is well hidden in 
the past. What is certain is that after his arrival at Flostren's 
Hold, no less than six of the lords died mysteriously, and 
their replacements all conveniently seemed to know Zhen 
tar. Except for a very rich Sembian merchant and a grim 
warrior-priest named Brest, all of the replacements were 
wizards, too. The time just following Zhentar's arrival has 
gone down in Zhentish legend as the Cleansing of the 
Council. (It has since often been put forward by later pow 
ers within the Keep as the best example of how to deal with 
one's enemies.) 

Within a year, word spread throughout the Dragonreach 
that a new temple of Bane existed in the Moonsea area. The 
warrior-priest Brest of Flostren's Hold was its priest. This was 
news that shocked even the hard-bitten merchants of the 
Hold. Bane and Bane's followers were bad for business - 
strife. Bane's goal, would drive away trade. Pressed by the 
other lords, Elephstron confronted Zhentar. In response, the 
mage mocked the Lord of the Keep. The Banite temple was 
no oversight, but rather an integral part of the wizard's 
schemes - and there was nothing Elephstron or the other 
lords could do. Zhentar made clear a variety of horrible 
deaths awaited any lords who opposed him. 

The Lord of the Keep was not so easily intimidated 
though. Elephstron had secrets of his own -magical 
weapons accumulated over his long mercantile career. 
Steeled with these, he surprised and slew the contemptuous 
Zhentar, but perished himself from the dying mage's last 
spells. 


T he escalating infighting between merchants and the 
increasing attacks by monsters on nearby caravan 
routes (and even the city walls), combined with rumors of 
an vast ore horde gathering beyond Thar, convinced Eleph 
stron that the Hold needed powerful magic to defend itself. 
Dissatisfied with the mages found among the motley adven 
turing bands in the region, the Lord of the Keep traveled 
south in search of a master mage. Elephstron was convinced 


To Honor the Dead 

T he deaths of Zhentar and Elephstron were a harsh 
blow to the small Council of Lords. The five remain 
ing lords of the original Twelve detested, and were equally 
detested by, Zhentar's chosen wizard lords. And the Dark 
Shrine of Bane, Brest's temple, was loved by no one save 





8 











Brest and the High Imperceptor of Bane in Mulmaster. 
(The High Imperceptor saw this new temple as a way to 
increase his influence in other areas of the Moonsea.) Only 
Hamastarin, the Sembian merchant who bought his way 
onto the Council, was neutral toward all factions. The 
Council was on the verge of internal strife even worse than 
the Cleansing. 

It was Hamastarin who realized the true peril facing all 
the lords. Over the years they had become increasingly 
unpopular with the numerous common merchants of 
Flostren's Hold. Too often they had passed severe laws or 
used soldiers to prevent some rising upstart from chal 
lenging their power. Now any sign of weakness in the 
Council or any hint of dissension among the lords would 
likely lead to riot and rebellion in the streets of the city that 
would undo them all. 

Knowing that Zhentar's pet mages of the Council were too 
impoverished and too unknown in the Hold to openly flout 
those who remained of the Twelve, Hamastarin threw his sup 
port behind Jhoaz, the eldest of Elephstron's sons. This suited 
the surviving Twelve, who deemed Jhoaz to be controllable, 
and the youth's selection as Lord of the Keep was ensured. In 
filling the other vacancy on the Council, Hamastarin was 
again the key, this time pushing through a wizard, though one 
not allied to the late Zhentar. Through this, he persuaded the 
mage-lords that balance had been kept. (From this time for 
ward the distinction between Lord of the Keep and Lord of 
the City was done away with. All were now lords, and the 
Council of Lords voted new titles on those it wished to 
appoint to new duties, give new powers, award lump sums of 
money to, or reward with stipends.) 

Even though peace was preserved on the Council, the co 
murders of Zhentar and Elephstron were still a problem. Their 
deaths were the subject of rumor, conjecture, and grumbling, 
though few had any idea what had actually happened. 
Among those who knew the truth were Zhentar's chosen 
mage-lords. They quickly invented a tale in which Zhentar 
had been attacked by an evil wizard, an assassin sent by jeal 
ous merchants from the south. Zhentar and the wizard per 
ished battling each other, while poor Elephstron suffered the 
tragic fate of so many innocent bystanders. 

To give their fiction a ring of truth, the mage-lords and 
Brest's priests of Bane wove a web of spells to block, divert, 
and mislead any who might try to magically divine the truth 
of what had transpired. It is said by some that the god Bane, 
eager to protect his temple, lent his powers to the task, 
shielding the two departed spirits from all mortal inquiry. In 
exchange for its aid to the Council, the church of Bane qui 
etly received a large donation from the lords, with which it 
improved and enlarged Bane's temple in the Hold. 



Zhentar and Elephstron plunge to their dooms. 























However it was managed, the fiction worked, and the 
spells raised to protect it are still effective today. The truth is 
recorded only in a few wizards' worm-eaten tomes -tomes 
most likely lost in the crypts beneath the city. The assassin's 
attack has become another Zhentish legend. Over time, 
Zhentar's death has become an act of treachery committed 
by Cormyte or Sembian agents. Exactly who performed the 
act is not important - proof that the southerners fear and 
hate Zhentil Keep is all that matters. "Rewarded like Zhen- 
tar" has since become an old expression for someone 
betrayed. 

As a final flourish to the tale, the city was renamed Zhen 
til Keep to honor the wizard who died defending the com 
munity. Elephstron's role was downplayed lest the citizens 
discover the cause of his rage. Over the years, "hapless as 
Elephstron" has become a callous slur used to describe any 
unsuspecting fool caught in a crossfire of deadly plots. 

CbARAcTeR 

GkoluVi 

R iot and rebellion temporarily averted, the lords (even 
without their ablest leaders) knew they had to harness 
the energies of their people. Since growth served this need 
(and their pocketbooks) best, a massive expansion of the city 
was begun. With that growth, the newly rechristened Zhen 
til Keep developed a personality all its own. 

The first major project undertaken was to link the city 
with the developing settlements of the southern Moonsea 
coast. This was to be the first step in establishing an overland 
trade route to Cormyr. Already other communities of the 
Dragon Sea north had begun to route their trade goods to 
Hillsfar rather than Zhentil Keep in order for them to reach 
Cormyr and Sembia. From Hillsfar, the goods would be quick 
ly transported along the coast and down the River Lis by 
barge. Hillsfar also had support from the Elven Court, which 
wished to limit human incursions into its woods by encourag 
ing river traffic and overland routes. The lords saw that they 
were losing business, and they took action. 

A great bridge was built across the River Tesh to link the 
city with roads leading south. The bridge was fortified to the 
east, forming an outer wall for Zhentil Keep's crowded, but 
large, harbor. This fortification held a roadway and bastions 
armed with catapults to repel hostile ships. A great wooden 
boom made of massive logs linked by chains was hung on 
the bridge fortifications parapet where it could be quickly 
lowered into the water to close the channel. In the true spir 
it of mercantilism, a string of adjoining shops and houses 
built by traders who hoped to be the first to gather goods 


from passing ships sprang up on the western side of the 
bridge. The southern end of the bridge was guarded by a 
massive gate and tower. 

The next stage was to enlarge the city once more. Since 
marshy ground made further expansion southward impracti 
cal, a new wall was begun outside the existing one. When it 
was complete, four winters later, the inner ring was gradually 
torn down, and the black stone was used for the buildings 
needed within the new wall. 

The city grew into a busy commercial center, feeding on 
the expanding mining trade out of the Dragon Sea north and 
supplying the growing human population of the Moonsea 
region with goods and services hitherto no closer than Sem 
bia. Temples to Malar, Tempus, Tymora, and Waukeen were 
founded, but the priesthood of Bane quickly established its 
dominance in the city, enlarging the Dark Shrine until it was 
second only to the Black Lord's Altar in Mulmaster in size 
and personnel. Bane's church in Zhentil Keep ruthlessly 
drove out priests attempting to consecrate places of worship 
for Lathander and Tyr. 

Even as it grew in size, Zhentil Keep grew in character, too. 
It was not always an evil city. Indeed, for most of the Keep's 
existence to this point, the only unifying characteristic of its 
people was that of fierce competition. The merchants were 
here to make and protect their fortunes. Art, beauty, good, and 
evil were only secondary considerations to wealth and prosper 
ity. Faezzryl Farstepper, a noted traveler of the time, said: 

Zhentil Keep is one of the most commercially cutthroat cities 
I have visited. In the course of my tenday here, I have been 
offered every trade good twice over, each time with curses 
against the previous seller and at a price another copper thumb 
less. Nor does it lack services, some with descriptions that 
would make a licentious rogue blush, so long as there is a coin 
to be made in them. 

An obsession with money, though, begets greed, and greed 
begets other evils. When a merchant could no longer under 
cut his competition's prices, he struck back in other ways. 
Money could buy a favorable ruling from the Council, a con 
venient accident, a thief in the night, or a poisoned dagger in 
the shadows. Who would complain? The lords were as guilty 
as anyone in this respect. Their only concern was for public 
order. So long as merchant feuds did not cause widespread 
destruction, no law would intervene. 

It did not take much time for word to spread that Zhentil 
Keep was a place where humans, elves, dwarves, or whatever 
could get the kind of work that paid well if they did not ask 
questions. Even if a person's only talent was a willingness to 
use his or her blade, there were jobs to be found in Zhentil 











Keep. Adventuring companies run out of other cities, thieves 
too well known in the south, and priests of disreputable gods 
all took up residence at the Keep. They brought with them 
not just their ambitions but their morals as well. 

For mages it was a slightly different matter. The merchant 
feuds required wizards to perpetuate them, and Zhentar's old al 
lies seized on the chance. A few successful spells and a few sus 
picious killings quickly made it clear that magework would only 
be done by Zhentar's followers. All other wizards in the city 
wisely decided to keep their skills quiet or leave town. 

Thus, as the city's walls, towers, warehouses, and docks 
grew, so did the city's ruthlessness, deceit, and paranoia. 
Zhentil Keep's mood was fast matching the blackness of the 
walls that enclosed it. 

The N)ghT Plague 

T he nobility had survived the first great disaster of Zhen- 
tar and Elephstron's deaths and the entrepreneurial rush 
of the Keep's subsequent development. The sons and daugh 
ters of the original lords claimed their parents' seats as their 
right -at least, those daughters and sons ruthless or evil 


enough to survive any challengers. Zhentil Keep had its lords 
and ladies. Merchant, priest, and wizard all ruled the city in 
an uneasy Council. 

One by one, Zhentar's chosen mages aged over the years. 
Unlike the merchants, many were childless, having spumed 
the pleasures of the physical world and the responsibilities of 
families in their pursuit of dark knowledge. Like imperial 
politicians, they chose their successors from the ranks of their 
fellow wizards, selecting those they deemed loyal and fulsome 
with hideous skills. By this means they passed on the title of 
Zhentilar, "the chosen of Zhentar." 

These old Council members retired, but did not vanish. 
Instead, they pursued dark studies until they gradually, one 
by one, slipped from sight into crypts growing beneath the 
city. There they attained their goal of lichdom and were 
oddly content-assured of privacy and endless time to con 
tinue their experiments. Not wishing to be disturbed, they 
kept themselves well hidden, only occasionally emerging to 
barter for magical supplies or claim a body (living or dead) 
for their experiments. Unlike most other liches, they 
worked together, bound in undeath as they had been in life 
by Zhentar's vision. 



Those Who Walk by Night plague Zhentil Keep for another ewening. 













































Time preys on even liches, though, as their undead 
minds inexorably deteriorate. Zhentar's dark vision and 
their own caution crumbled over the long years, and the 
former masters of the city began to walk its streets by night. 
They spied on their chosen successors, slew fools taking 
their nightly constitutionals, and committed ever more 
grotesque crimes as their researches grew more insane. 

It was the time of the Night Plague. Each night Zhentil 
Keep surrendered itself to a siege of terror. Taverns closed 
their doors, inns became little fortresses, and only the most 
dangerous or desperate went out at night. Zhentil Keep's 
reputation as a rough-but profitable -trading city took a 
bleaker turn as word of the nightly terror spread south. 

Protected from harm by their own skilled wizards, 
priests, and warriors, the lords of the Council ignored 
Those Who Walk by Night, a name given the liches by the 
Keep's fearful citizens. The inaction of their leaders did 
nothing to endear them to the terrorized citizenry as their 
discontent grew. It was only after the opportune deaths of a 
few merchant lords -blamed on Those Who Walk by 
Night, of course -and a substantial decline in caravan traf 
fic that the Council finally acted. 

Thus it was that the Zhentilar grew. The city needed a 
standing watch, not armies of private bodyguards. To equal 
ly protect all, it needed to be free of the merchant factions 
(including the lords 1 factions) and filled with specialists 
able to handle the Night Plague. What better solution was 
there but to expand the Zhentilar? The long-standing 
mages of the Council, supported by the newest members 
(priests and wizards dedicated to Bane), pushed the idea 
through. Private armies were restricted to 100 guards or 
less. The suddenly unemployed soldiers of fortune, who pre 
viously worked for this merchant house or that, were dra 
gooned into the ranks of the Zhentilar. Captained by Zhen 
tilar wizards and priests of Bane, the Zhentilar troopers 
swore loyalty to the will of the Council and no one else. Of 
course, by now the Council was firmly in the control of the 
Zhentilar wizards. 

The truth was, of course, that the Zhentilar cared 
naught about the Night Plague, but a show of putting the 
liches down was necessary to maintain control of the city's 
populace. Several spectacular battles were fought against 
lich-like figures; some of them were undoubtedly staged to 
conveniently destroy the warehouses of lords opposed to 
the Zhentilar. These battles led to much property destruc 
tion and damage, but no dead liches. Instead, the mages 
and priests of the Zhentilar coerced, bribed, or forced the 
lich lords to return to their crypts beneath the city. True, 
one lich, Fear-Lord Vingril (though Zhent history would 
later dub him "Vingril the Obstinate"), was completely 


annihilated when he tried to magically shrink an entire cog 
and its crew. His destruction was not caused by the Zhenti 
lar, however, but was the work of an adventuring compa 
ny-the Golden Stag -who had signed on to protect the 
Cormyte ship from Melvauntian pirates on the Moonsea. 

These night walkers are still feared in the city, although 
it is likely that most have been destroyed, become totally 
insane by now (and too preoccupied to roam), attained 
demilichdom, or have been so physically damaged as to be 
rendered immobile. Zhentish legend holds that Those Who 
Walk by Night are bound into the walls of certain secret 
crypts by Zhentilar spells. They will be released when the 
Zhentilar lords no longer rule the city. Certainly, the lure of 
their fabulous hidden laboratories has drawn a steady 
stream of explorers into the crypts beneath the city. Many 
fewer come out than go in, but it is hard to say just what 
was found by those who never return. (To aid in this crypt 
exploration, the modern marketplaces of Zhentil Keep do a 
good trade in "true and accurate" maps of the city's subter 
ranean world. Buyers interested in these things should hag 
gle well and beware of fakes. The Black Network is fond of 
using fake maps to lure outland troublemakers to their 
doom.) 

War and T RAb& 

T he Night Plague was only a pretext for expanding the 
Zhentilar. (Indeed, some think the Zhentilar caused 
it.) In Zhentil Keep, the bulk of the merchant community 
was in unrest, a soft but steady grumble of unhappiness. Fur 
thermore, Thar fell to humans largely based in other cities. 
As the lords saw rivals and potential enemies growing more 
numerous, they strengthened the Zhentilar to awesome 
numbers. Well-placed barracks and iron gates erected to 
block key streets (ostensibly for defense from invasion) 
forced a quietude on the populace. 

Soldiers must, of course, be given something to do 
(besides brutally putting down unrest among the citizenry) if 
they are not to prove a menace to their employers. With 
order restored, the lords, ever watchful of mutiny, sent much 
of their new army into the field against the rising port of 
Phlan. While some troops remained in town, the Zhentilar 
created the naug-orls (devil worms) to keep the people in 
line. A collection of spies, assassins, thieves, and thugs, the 
naug-orls were the secret police of the lords. They killed, 
kidnaped, robbed, framed, and arrested anyone foolish 
enough to complain too openly. Reporting only to a myste 
rious figure known as Night Fingers, the naug-orls kept order 
through fear and paranoia, states of mind the citizens under 
stood already all too well. 






12 











Meanwhile, the Zhentilar army's campaign against Phlan 
resulted in several crushing defeats for the Phlanites. It was 
only the growing might of the Dalelands, particularly the 
founding of Shadowdale, that saved Phlan from total con 
quest. Overextended, Zhentil Keep drew Phlan and Mel- 
vaunt into an alliance (the Triple Alliance) that these cities, 
weakened by war, could not refuse. 

For decades a pattern continued. Zhentilar troops skir 
mished with the militia of surrounding lands, forcing conces 
sions when they could. Yulash was occupied and forced to 
give Zhentil Keep exclusive trading privileges. Hillsfar, farther 
off and aided by the elves, resisted Zhentish demands. 

Zhentil Keep's rapidly expanding navy had just undertak 
en the first of several wars with Mulmaster to ensure Zhentil 
Keep's naval supremacy over the Moonsea when disaster 
struck the area. Dragons swooped down in a mass raid to plun 
der and destroy all the human cities of the Moonsea. What 
they did not topple, they set afire or twisted with spells. They 
feasted at will upon humans and their livestock. Zhentilar 
mages on the rooftops and ramparts of the city fought off the 
dragon attack with spells, but not before the original keep 
inside the walls had been reduced to rubble-with many cow 
ering lords and their families still inside it. Once again the 
lords of the Council were reduced, and once again their 
replacements were more wizards and priests. Now, only three 
of the original 12 merchant lords' families still held positions 
of power. 

So things remained for over a century or more. The Zhenti 
lar, commanded by the Council of Lords at Zhentil Keep, were 
kept busy in constant skirmishes with neighboring lands. Zhent 
caravans aggressively pushed through dangerous territory to set 
up trade routes and agreements with distant lands. Whenever 
possible caravans and Zhentilar worked together. In distant 
towns, Zhent merchant houses provided convenient bases for 
Zhentilar (so-called) caravan guards. The expression "a Zhent- 
sharp trade" became a common idiom for deals sealed with a 
(sometimes discreet) threat of arms. 

The Lotid-Pnitoces 

I n the last century, Harlshoon, a warrior of renown, 
became first lord of Zhentil Keep. (The first lord was, by 
tradition, a sort of chairperson of the Council of Lords.) 
This was unusual since he was not a merchant, priest, or 
mage, but a commander of the Zhentilar troops. Some took 
his rise as an ill-omened sign of the military's growing might. 
It was no surprise that his chief rival among the city's lords 
was Calkontor, a skilled mage, for the mages of the Zhentilar 
bristled at the thought of their sword-wielding counterparts 
rising to such heights. 


Harlshoon's sons, Asmuth and Manshoon, were a pair of 
ruthless, depraved, swashbuckling rakes who terrorized the 
common folk with cruel pranks and destructive roistering. 
Their chief friend and companion in this was Chess, son of 
Calkontor. As was the custom of Zhent nobles, Harlshoon 
and Calkontor sent their sons (known as lord-princes, the 
Zhentish title for a lord's heir who has not yet come to power) 
forth into the world armed with swords and gold to leam its 
ways and prove themselves. Each was charged with a mission 
to complete, one that would bring more wealth to the gates of 
Zhentil Keep and prove his worth as a future lord. Even as the 
three set out, neither fathers or sons fully trusted the friend 
ship, but such paranoia was only expected from scions of the 
black walls of Zhentil Keep. All knew that the strongest 
would survive any treachery, should it come to that. In this 
way weakness would be purged. 

While Harlshoon sent his sons in the belief it would make 
them strong, Calkontor had other reasons for encouraging the 
three to leave. With his sons gone, Harlshoon's power was 
weakened ever so slightly. Three months after their departure, 
Calkontor poisoned Harlshoon and then taunted the dying 
lord. It was Calkontor's undoing. Harlshoon mastered his 
weakening body enough to stun Calkontor with a hurled 
chair, and then he cast the treacherous mage from the tower's 
high window to the cobbles far below. The effort did not save 
Harlshoon, but he did have the satisfaction of seeing his assas 
sin die before him. 

With both lords dead,the mage Theilon Greencloak and 
the priest Ulsan Baneservant - both powerful men in the 
Keep - claimed the vacant positions left by the deceased 
lords. (In this they usurped the positions from the lord- 
princes, whom tradition held should normally receive the 
titles.) Like Zhentar and Elephstron before them, Harlshoon 
and Calkontor perished together, and once again deaths 
caused by treachery and grasping ambition were cloaked 
behind the lies of outsider assassin attacks, this time from 
Hillsfar or Mulmaster. 

Far away, the journeying lord-princes came upon a barrow 
that their lore readings told them would hold, among other 
things, a magical blade of great power. Unfortunately for the 
lord-princes, three Harpers were spending the night inside the 
tomb. They were also seeking the sword, and they planned to 
take it with all due ceremony so as not to despoil the barrow. 
In the battle that followed, Asmuth was blinded, and Man 
shoon's right hand was blasted into nothingness when he 
hastily snatched up the sword. Only Lord-Prince Chess was 
unharmed, and it was he who dragged his companions into 
the safety of the night. 

The victorious Harper women prayed for permission to 
take away the blade. Animated by the spirit of its one-time 














wielder, the sword flew all around them, flashing about the 
tomb ever more swiftly. Chess feared it would slay the Harpers 
and then come forth to dispatch any lord-princes who were 
still nearby, so he hastened to assist his injured comrades away 
from the tomb. 

Asmuth was all but helpless and had to be led on his 
mount. Manshoon was crippled and could no longer hold a 
blade. Fleeing the battle. Chess, Asmuth, and Manshoon 
wandered until one night they found an encamped company 
of adventurers. Most lay asleep. The three Zhents overcame 
the watch and slaughtered the hapless company. Among its 
gear, Manshoon found a magical wand and a spellbook. He 
soon traded the wand for the magic needed to regenerate his 
hand, but secretly kept the spellbook. He resolved to master 
magic, having seen its power in play at the tomb. Manshoon 
thus covertly began his career as a mage. 

After a few more dangerous and brigandish adventures, the 
Zhents began the long trip home. It was at an inn in the Dale- 
lands, still far from the Moonsea, that the trio learned of the 
deaths of their fathers. The facts were hidden amid Zhentish 
lies, Cormyte denials, and wild speculations, but Manshoon 
cared little for the truth behind the words. His father was 
dead, and even worse, Manshoon's rightful place on the 
Council had been usurped by another. 

Manshoon quickly formed a plan. It took little to convince 
his traveling companion Chess that Theilon and Ulsan were 
behind the deaths and that the lord-princes themselves would 
be the next targets of the usurpers. The two sons agreed to 
ally. As for Asmuth, Manshoon resolved to dispose of his 
brother before they reached Zhentil Keep. It would not do to 
have two lord-princes seeking the same seat on the Council. 
With Asmuth blind, it was a simple matter for Manshoon to 
arrange his fatal fall from a narrow bridge into the misty 
depths of a rocky gorge. 

Other events had unfolded in the lord-princes' absence. 
The Masked Wizards of Ankhalus (a brotherhood of evil 
mages who dwelt in a small keep in Thar) had attacked sever 
al Zhentilar outposts, threatening the Phlanite frontier. To 
occupy the restless Zhentilar (and distract them from the 
recent usurpation of power in the Council), Theilon Green- 
cloak led the army in a retaliatory attack. 

The Battle of the Masks ensued on the plain of Thar. 
While the Zhentilar troopers slashed through waves of ores 
and ogres allied to the Masked Wizards, the mages of both 
sides conjured secret spells devised for just this confronta 
tion. It is said that from the Masked Wizards there rose a 
snarling beast, caged in a black whirlwind, that tore through 
the lines straight for the bonfires of the Zhentilar mages, 
spitting lightning at the sorcerous commanders. Meanwhile 
the Zhentilar wizards churned forth a river of boiling lava 


that flowed toward and then over the tower of their masked 
foes. By dusk, the leaders of both sides had perished, 
destroyed by the magic their enemies had released. The 
humanoids, suddenly without their masters, withdrew from 
the fight, leaving the battered Zhentilar to hold the field. 
The Citadel Ankhalus was reduced to a half-melted smok 
ing ruin -and in Zhentil Keep, the Lord Ulsan was left 
alone holding power, the other lords thoroughly terrified of 
his cold, depraved cruelty and the power of the priesthood 
he commanded. 

When Chess and Manshoon returned to the city, priests 
promptly tried to assassinate them, clearly on Ulsan's orders. 
Cool-headed plans for such contingencies, Manshoon's emerg 
ing magic, and a dash of good fortune saved them. (These did 
not, however, save the townhouse of Lord Vyalshar, where 
Manshoon was supposed to be staying, or the Spitted Man 
Alehouse next door. The explosion that leveled both was 
described by local residents as a "magnificently silent fireball.") 

The blast seemed to stretch Manshoon's luck to its limit. 
Within days Lord-Prince Chess defected to Ulsan's side in 
exchange for Theilon's seat on the Council. Still pretending 
loyalty. Chess arranged to meet Manshoon-and thus draw 
him into a trap for Ulsan's assassins. Manshoon's future 
looked very short and bloody. 

Overconfidence is a terrible thing, as Ulsan soon 
learned. Without realizing it, he had become the victim of 
a classic double-cross -a "Zhent deal" (another Dalelands 
phrase). Chess had faked his betrayal and was following 
Manshoon's plan. Manshoon struck at Ulsan with the aid 
of a childhood friend, Fzoul Chembryl, one of Baneser- 
vant's own subordinate priests who was ambitious to rise 
within the church's ranks and unhappy with the creed the 
current church leaders were following. While Ulsan's assas 
sins were slaughtered in one trap, Manshoon, Fzoul, and 
Chess sprung the other. Astonished by the treachery, Ulsan 
was easily killed. In the aftermath, Manshoon and Chess 
each claimed the title of Lord of Zhentil Keep, and both 
supported Fzoul's rise in the ranks of the priesthood of Bane 
and the formation of a dissenting branch within Bane's 
church in Zhentil Keep. 

MAKtshoofOj 

MasT&k of 

the ZbewTiutifo 

M indful of his exposed position at the pinnacle of 
power in Zhentil Keep, Manshoon immediately set 
about creating a secret organization-the Zhentarim-that 









would support him, his rale over Zhentil Keep, and his ambi 
tions throughout the rest of the Realms. Fzoul was an early 
recruit, for the priest saw membership as a means to seize the 
leadership of his church. Under his influence, many of the 
lower priests of Bane joined this network against the will of 
the old-school church hierarchy, secretly breaking with what 
they saw as the outdated doctrines of the orthodox leader of 
the Banite religion, the High Imperceptor of Bane in Mul- 
master. Fzoul's influence among the priests of Bane grew as 
Manshoon supported his fellow conspirator. Ultimately, with 
the backing of Manshoon's network, Fzoul took over the 
church organization in Zhentil Keep, renaming the temple 
the Black Altar in open defiance of the authority of the High 
Imperceptor, whose seat of power in Mulmaster was called the 
Black Lord's Altar. 

Manshoon did not solely rely on the Banite priests, nor 
did he truly trust them. Their loyalty was first to Bane, not 
him. Nor did he fully trust the many Zhent wizards who 
joined his cabal; he assumed their ambition to be as great as 
his own. Manshoon cold-bloodedly played wizards one 
against another, and he found many ways to use their knowl 
edge and items to further his own researches. Through his 
own studies and by plumbing the depths of the resource that 
other Zhentarim wizards presented, Manshoon's skills as a 
wizard grew and surpassed his skills with a sword. Knowing 
the consequences of overconfidence, Manshoon strove to 
raise his own might-of-Art to a higher level than the other 
wizards in the Zhentarim. 

A few years after the founding of the Zhentarim, Man 
shoon became adept at commanding loyalty and detecting 
treachery among the Zhentilar (and Zhentarim). Spies came 
back from Teshendale (still a free Dale at that time) telling 
tales of a magically levitating hollow rock that drifted over 
the wilderness west of Zhentil Keep. While investigating this 
flying rock personally (since he suspected it contained power 
ful magical items that might be useful to him), Manshoon 
met Xantriph, a beholder who inhabited the floating shrine. 
The two cunning minds saw a mutual advantage to be gained 
by joining forces, rather than attempting to kill each other. 
Manshoon proclaimed the great flying shrine to be the 
Temple in the Sky, a worldly link to the gods. There Xantriph 
spoke to Banites (who came riding hippogriffs, or more foul 
creatures) as the Voice of Bane, directing them to do whatev 
er Manshoon desired. The god Bane, amused and intrigued, 
raised no hand against this. 

In addition, the Voice of Bane encouraged the confession 
of sins -of course reporting information gained in these con 
fessions back to Manshoon. The floating temple became a 
base for Zhentilar patrols and for a network of agents - 
humans and small skulking creatures -that Xantriph set up 


to spy on Zhentil Keep's citizens (including the priesthood of 
Bane and the ranks of the Zhentarim). Some findings Xant 
riph reported to Manshoon, who was quick to remove serious 
threats and rivals when alerted by the eye tyrant, but many of 
the facts he learned the beholder kept secret for its own 
plans. Sometimes it also offered "suggestions" to Manshoon, 
suggestions that furthered its own secret goals even as they 
aided the Zhentarim. 

T^oubLed Times 

P erhaps it was only coincidence that shortly after the 
founding of the Zhentarim, the North became restless 
again. Rumors of dragons working with ore shamans, the 
ascendance of a giant four-armed ore leader named Ghauust, 
and of massing ore hordes began to filter south. These were 
followed by raids. Dragons swooped over Teshendale and 
Daggerdale. Ores stormed the outposts of Melvaunt and 
seized the Border Forest. Glister was besieged by ogres. 
Humanoid pirates made the Moonsea unsafe. 

Some scoffed at the threats building in the North. "Zhent 
work," they sneered, "just Zhent plots to scare all the north 
ern traders into their arms." They pointed to maps of the 
Moonsea and noted how the threat stayed away from Zhent 
lands. As their suspicions became louder, new reports came 
from the north of ore raids through the Dragonspine Moun 
tains and into the Zhent-held lands of the Tesh Valley. 

Then the dragons came, proving the truth of the threat. 
Dragons destroyed Hulburg, and Sulasspryn was shattered. 
Ores swept over the ruins and butchered the survivors. 
Blocked by the mountains at the east end of the Moonsea, the 
horde swept west and beset all human settlements north of 
the Moonsea itself. 

The lords of Zhentil Keep were shrewd enough to see that 
they could redeem themselves in the eyes of many neighbors 
who might otherwise unite against them by aidmg Melvaunt 
and Thentia in the struggle. By doing so, they could also 
impress those who might otherwise consider Zhentil Keep 
militarily weak, such as Cormyr, which was busily expanding 
northward, and Sembia, whose ship captains had taken to 
pointedly reminding Zhents that they were Sembian in ori 
gin, and ought to be allies of-or even citizens of -Sembia. 
So the Zhentilar armies were hurled into the fray, bolstered by 
the Art wielded by the lords who were also mages, and by 
priests of the city's temple of Bane. The horde was defeated, 
but not until ore raiding parties had slipped through into the 
Tesh Valley and ravaged the frontiers of the Dalelands. 

(Elminster insists the entire ore threat was a Zhentarim 
plot. He points to how little Zhentil Keep suffered compared 
to its neighbors and how the armies it sent were composed 











of convicts and those disloyal to Manshoon. He admits that 
the sacking of Hulburg and Sulasspryn was probably not part 
of the plan, but that their destruction only enhanced Zhen- 
tarim schemes. As for the raids into the south, Elminster 
says the ores were escorted across Zhentish lands by the 
Zhentilar and released to the south to make the Dalesmen 
panic.) 

The QT&b&L 
of The Ravew 

s the threat of an ore invasion subsided, Manshoon saw 
an opportunity and seized it. At his direction, Halaster 
and Aumraeven, two diplomatically astute lords of lesser 
power -the former a great warrior, the latter a fell mage - 
called the rulers of the other Moonsea cities to a parley in 
neutral Elmwood. There they convinced all that the Citadel 
of the Raven could and ought to be refortified by all human 
powers in the region acting together to head off possible 
future humanoid threats. As a goodwill gesture, Zhentil Keep 
had just granted Yulash an independent charter, and now it 
was prepared to withdraw its troops from Yulash and send the 
withdrawn Zhentilar garrison north to the Citadel to begin 
the job of cleaning out and occupying this fortress in the 
Dragonspines. (Yulash had been occupied by Zhentilar 
almost from its founding. Of course, the Zhents intended to 
keep covert agents in the market town to ensure that Yulash 
would act as Zhentil Keep desired until Zhentilar armies 
retook it.) 

The Citadel of the Raven was (and still is) a chain of 
ancient stone fortresses linked by tunnels, low walls, and high 
stone bridges. Stone ravens are carved on its battlements, fac 
ing north, from which the Citadel takes its name. The 
Citadel has seemingly always existed throughout recorded 
history, always bearing the same name. It was old when 
humans of the Inner Sea first reached the Dragon Sea and 
built now-lost Northkeep. 

For centuries the abandoned keep served as a refuge for 
human and half-ore bandits, and several successive bands of 
them were routed out of it as the human presence in the 
Moonsea north grew. Some sages believe the Citadel's exis 
tence proves there was once a grand human kingdom in the 
Moonsea north, and that humans are an older race than 
demihumans and humanoids. Elminster and other learned 
scholars hold that the Citadel is a remnant of a realm whose 
people fell back into barbarism under repeated ore and ogre 
attacks. Today the survivors make up the Horse Tribes of The 
Ride. This realm's existence proves nothing about the age of 
humankind or human greatness in Faerun, only that human 


history in the Moonsea north goes back beyond reliable 
record. 

At the insistence of Zhentil Keep, all the human Moonsea 
cities had a hand in reestablishing the Citadel. At the time, it 
was assumed that Zhentil Keep had been weakened by its 
stand against the invasion and could not carry out the neces 
sary improvements and staffing of the Citadel on its own. 
Since the recent attacks proved to the city governments that 
they were dangerously exposed to raiding ores and ogres, no 
one city or land wanted to send all its forces to guard some dis 
tant fortification. The terms of the parley that established the 
Citadel as a defensive stronghold called for all of the cities 
and lands to send some troops to the Citadel, and for all of 
them to use it as a base for patrolling Thar and The Ride, 
where fierce barbarian human tribes were proving increas 
ingly dangerous to mining caravans from Zhentil Keep and 
other areas throughout the Moonsea. Everybody was to send a 
small contingent, so that nobody had to weaken their home 
garrisons. At least, that was the theory. 

From the start, the Zhents made sure their forces outnum 
bered the soldiery of other cities in the Citadel. Zhentilar 
arrived under the banners of both Zhentil Keep and Yulash. 
Yulash had been formally granted independence just before 
the parley, but Zhentil Keep still truly held the reins of power 
there. 

The Zhents worked carefully to avoid the appearance of 
dominating the citadel. A dedicated battle captain, Galaun- 
tar Hawkhelm of Hillsfar (a staunch rival of Zhentil Keep), 
was elected captain of the Citadel by vote of all the cities. (It 
is now believed that the Black Network rigged the outcome 
against itself to further lessen suspicions.) He raised the 
watchful Raven of the North banner, and he wisely led the 
warriors who rode under it. 

Some of the cities sent malcontents and criminals to the 
Citadel just to be rid of them. These mavericks might have 
been troublesome, but Zhentarim wizards surreptitiously 
installed in the Citadel kept order through subtle application 
of their Art. Keeping their powers hidden from Hawkhelm, 
the wizards discovered which warriors were spies reporting 
back to their home cities, and they made sure that these stal 
warts ended up amid the battle casualties when Citadel war 
riors fought. At the same time, these covert mages recruited 
those malcontents who could be seduced into the lower ranks 
of the Zhentarim. In comparison to the others, the Zhentilar 
garrison was always tightly disciplined and cooperative with 
Hawkhelm, never once giving a hint of trouble. 

The Citadel's forces fought well against persistent ogre 
attacks, and they were soon joined by fledgling adventuring 
bands hoping to make names for themselves. These adventur 
ers served as explorers and scouts. The Citadel's fame, and good 





16 











name, grew. Once its true worth came to be appreciated, the 
ancient, crumbling walls were renewed and strengthened. 

For many years, the garrison of the Citadel skirmished with 
this ore band or that ogre tribe. These were only petty battles 
against foes that could never threaten the safety of the Dale- 
lands or lands further south. It did not take long before council 
members in many Dales grumbled about the cost of maintain 
ing a "useless garrison so far from home." Contributions to the 
staffing force of the Citadel from distant lands diminished, 
while those of Zhentil Keep grew steadily. 

The Ogn.es 
of Than. 

T he first true test of the Citadel came when the ogres of 
the Moonsea north fell on the weakened human king 
dom of Thar and smashed it. Their traditional lands regained, 
the ogres surged toward the Dragonspines. It took bold action 
and hard fighting, but Hawkhelm's command managed to 
break the building ogre threat. Chastised, the ogres retreated 
to their reconquered homeland. 

The war was not without its disasters for the Zhents. 
Phlan, which was well on its way to becoming a Zhentish 
client state, became the target of a combined ore and ogre 
horde. Melvaunt, an ally on paper, felt too exposed to risk its 
own troops in Phlan's defense, rendering the Zhentilar and 
Zhentarim who could come to Phlan's aid too few to hold 
back the tide. Phlan was overrun and left in ruins. Worse still, 
the ogres had outflanked the Citadel. Only an open plain sep 
arated them from Zhentil Keep. Zhentilar were hurriedly 
withdrawn from the Citadel to reinforce the troops at the 
Keep itself. Zhentarim agents plied the ogre leaders with gifts 
and advice, while secretly setting the ogre clans against each 
other to delay their movement, weaken their resolve, and 
confuse their tactics. 

At last, magic-wielding scouts sent back initial reports that 
the ogres were on the move. These were some of the Keep's 
darkest days. Every being who could carry a sword was press- 
ganged into the army. The dark temple of Bane droned with 
services every night and into the day. Even the lords were 
unsure if the walls of the Keep could withstand the full might 
of the ogre horde. 

Finally the full reports came in -the bribes, flattery, and 
advice had worked. Believing their enemies were weak, the 
ogres marched on both Zhentil Keep and Melvaunt. When 
the portion of the invaders sent to assault the Keep were well 
out on the barren plain, the Zhentilar struck. What followed 
was a massacre of the ogre forces, not a battle, and was intend 
ed to set an example for all the humanoids of the Moonsea 



north. It would make the humanoids think twice about chal 
lenging Zhentil Keep. 

Melvaunt also survived the assault by the humanoid con 
tingent that attacked it, although it was denied Zhentish aid. 
Indeed, Zhentarim agents secretly aided the ogres in their as 
saults on Melvaunt's walls. It was in the Zhentarim's best 
interests to see another trade competitor gone. 

Y &ans of 
Expansion 

S hielded by the strong, diligent patrols of the common 
ly garrisoned Citadel, Zhentil Keep grew stronger yet 
after the downfall of the ogre-led forces from Thar. The city 
grew up now, rather than out. Even the buildings in which 
common folk dwelt were tall, some having as many as six 
floors. They leaned one upon the other, pressed together in 
rows like so many cliffs towering over the narrow and 
gloomy streets below. Then, as now, crabweed and lichen 
grew on the cobbled streets, but there was not a tree to be 
found in the city. 

Since the rise of the Zhentilar, the soldiery outnumbered 
all other inhabitants of the city. Military concerns ruled daily 
life; great iron gates were set into buildings all over the city so 
that key streets could be closed off in case invaders reached 
the city interior (or, as some have said wryly, in case of a 
revolt). Minor Zhentarim mages-called naug-adar or "devil 
dogs" by the Zhentish citizenry-began to be assigned to 
gather information not only on the external enemies of Zhen 
til Keep, but to routinely spy on visitors and citizens of the 
Keep for Manshoon. Zhentil Keep had become a power in the 
Moonsea north, and would continue as one at the price of the 
happiness of its citizens. 

With the Moonsea north secured and the ogre threat 
defeated, it was time for Zhentil Keep and the Zhentarim to 
flex their muscles. The Zhents had ambitions to build an 
empire. Throughout the Realms, the Zhentarim planned to 
dominate through trade. 

One thing that Zhentil Keep and the Zhentarim needed to 
do to guarantee their economic ascendancy was to secure 
their water route to the Dragon Reach and the Sea of Fallen 
Stars, over which many goods were shipped. In the Year of 
Thunder (T306 DR), Zhentil Keep acted with this goal in 
mind. It supported Sembia, Hillsfar, Phlan, and Melvaunt in 
fighting down the increasing imperialistic intentions of Mul- 
master, which had begun using its naval forces to control 
access to the River Lis. The Moonsea War, as this conflict is 
called, ended in the defeat of Mulmaster. Zhentil Keep's par 
ticipation further fueled the enmity between the two cities. 



17 













The sinister fortress of Darkhold in the Far Hills became 
the next test of the Keep's imperialistic ambitions. The cas 
tle flanked the major trade route from the Inner Sea to the 
Sword Coast, making it a strategic point for anyone who 
wished to harry - or monopolize - the trade that traveled 
east and west. Centuries old, the fortress had passed through 
a number of hands until it fell under the sway of the lich- 
queen Varalla. 

Her evil gave the members of the Zhentarim an excuse to 
seize Darkhold as their own. Led by Manshoon himself, they 
attacked knowing that no one would come to her aid. Zhen 
tarim wizards and priests, backed by mercenaries and goblin 
allies, stormed the walls. After fierce fighting, they gained 
control of the castle. It is rumored that Manshoon died in the 
assault and was either resurrected or replaced by a clone. 
(Elminster claims Manshoon has died over 21 times, though 
this is likely an exaggeration based on personal dislike. After 
all, Elminster also describes Manshoon as a "petty, third-rate 
wizard with more luck than brains.") 

With Darkhold now its own, the Zhentarim carefully be 
gan exerting pressure on the surrounding area. Yellow Snake 
Pass, never the safest of routes, quickly came into its grasp. To 


the south though, the routes along the Trader's Road, the 
Dusk Road and the High Road have remained open due to 
the vigorous efforts of local rulers, the Purple Dragons of Cor- 
myr, and the influence of the Harpers. 

The next move was made by Zhentilar forces and it is not 
clear if this was actually part of a Zhentarim plan. ("Clear as a 
sunny day," snorts Elminster.) The forces of Zhentil Keep 
marched on Teshendale, laid waste to the town of Teshwave, 
and established rigid control of the valley of the Tesh, while the 
other Dales stood aside -much to their later shame. Next, the 
Zhentilar made war on Hillsfar and established a temple to 
Bane, the Altar of the Dark God, in the village of Voonlar. 

The Zhentarim made its boldest move when leaders 
friendly to the Zhents were helped to power in Daggerdale 
and Shadowdale. In both cases, the ruling seat became sud 
denly and mysteriously vacant, although astute citizens had 
little trouble guessing the cause - Zhent treachery. In Dag 
gerdale a relative from a far distant branch of the ruling fami 
ly-a vile man named Malyk-fortuitously appeared to claim 
the throne. In Shadowdale, where the right to rule was given 
to the holder of the Pendant of Ashaba, an outlander, Jyord- 
han, successfully made his claim. In both cases the citizens 
quickly had cause for regret as Zhentilar and Zhent merchants 
flowed into the Dales. 

It was in the midst of this expansion that Manshoon con 
solidated his iron hold over the Council of Lords. In the Year 
of the Blazing Brand (1334 DR), First Lord of the Council 
Iorltar died, naming Manshoon as his replacement under sus 
picious circumstances. Many members of the Council who 
had opposed Manshoon became mysteriously ill immediately 
after Manshoon's ascension to the position of first lord. Citing 
treachery within the city and enemies lurking eternally out 
side it, Manshoon called for increased powers to directly hire, 
train, and assign military forces be given to him. The Council 
of Lords at first denied this request after strong opposition was 
presented at an unprecendented and bloody Council meeting 
by several beholders who had, until then, been working loose 
ly with Manshoon in Zhentil Keep. The beholder Arglath 
floated threateningly in midair above the Council until mat 
ters were resolved as it wished. Lord Chess was given the posi 
tion of " Watchlord of the Council," which was defined to 
include the Council duties formerly given the first lord (thus 
Lord Chess is sometimes referred to as First Lord Chess). But 
within three years Manshoon had once again rearranged the 
Council to his liking and intrigued his way into being 
declared "High Lord," and he was given the almost absolute 
control over the affairs of Zhentil Keep and the Zhentilar that 
he desired. The beholders, strangely, remained silent this 
time, perhaps being caught up in other matters more near and 
dear to their beholder natures. 


18 



























In the Year of the Bright Blade (1347 DR), a large Zhentish 
force was sent to assault Melvaunt and bring it under the direct 
rale of Zhentil Keep. The Zhentilar and Zhentarim were sup 
plemented by a mercenary ore horde under the leadership of a 
strong ore warrior rumored to be of the line of Ghauust. Unfor 
tunately, Phlanite scouts, alerted by unusual ore activity in their 
vicinity, spied the force far in advance. They mobilized what 
resistance they could and sent fast messengers to neighboring 
Melvaunt to alert it and request aid. (Phlan has frequently been 
the target of Zhent attacks, and was unsure who was to be the 
target of this one.) With surprise lost, the Zhentarim attempted 
to swing wide through the badlands of Thar to come up on 
Melvaunt from the east. The ores, however, would not cooper 
ate. Knowing they had lost any chance of an easy victory in 
Melvaunt, the Zhentarim continued to swing wide and instead 
assaulted Hulburg. The small city, still littered with the ruins of 
several previous sackings (by first giants, then dragons, and 
then Mulmaster), did not stand a chance, and was decimated 
and looted. 

CouNJTeRATTacke<3 

T he rapid expansion of Zhentish influence alarmed the 
Keep's uninfluenced neighbors. The other free Dales, 
Mistledale especially, strengthened their defenses while vigor 
ously hunting out "Zhent" spies and giving them dubious tri 
als. Many lives were ruined, but not those of many spies. 

In Shadowdale, Jyordhan died under peculiar circum 
stances. (He was slain by Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun when 
he tried to ambush Khelben as the mage was attempting the 
leave after visiting the Dale.) This ushered in a period when 
Shadowdale had no official leader. Jyordhan had named 
Lyran, a Melvauntian, as his successor, but without the Pen 
dant, which had disappeared, Lyran was considered a pre 
tender by the Dalesfolk. (Khelben had taken the Pendant of 
Ashaba back to Waterdeep with him, promising to find a wor 
thy leader of Shadowdale.) 

At the same time the Dales were fortifying and hunting 
spies, they were circulating rumors of great treasures in the 
ruins bordering Zhent lands, hoping to draw adventurers 
close to their bosom. One of the first of these groups was the 
Knights of Myth Drannor. It was they who sacked the Flam 
ing Tower, attacked the Temple in the Sky, slew Xantriph 
the Voice of Bane, and freed the Temple from its mooring 
above the Flaming Tower. Although Xantriph was replaced 
by a less able beholder, Xulla, the attack damaged the credi 
bility of the Voice of Bane, From here on the Temple - 
restored to its tether - was to have less influence over the 
Zhentilar. Manshoon recognized this and closely allied him 
self with a different beholder, Manxam, who became his 


spymaster and co-conspirator. Manxam is said to be younger, 
but far wiser, than Xantriph was. 

The next blow in opposition to the Zhents fell in Dag- 
gerdale. Malyk, never popular with the peasants, was con 
fronted and slain by Randal Mom, true heir to the throne of 
the Daggerdale. Heartened, the Dalesfolk rose up against 
their Zhent overlords and pressed them back toward the 
remains of Teshendale. 

The Tatowg 
of The Cft&deL 

M any angry and exaggerated tales surround what is 
often described as "the treachery of Zhentil Keep." 
Elminster swears that, as far as he can tell, the Zhentarim 
cold-bloodedly planned to seize the Citadel of the Raven 
from the beginning, and with it, much of the force of arms of 
the other Moonsea cities. Of course, such a move could not 
be made immediately. At first, the Zhentarim was not strong 
enough to risk acting openly against all the other cities in 
the region. Later, too many mages and adventurers of power 
came to the Citadel for such a bold stroke to have much 
chance of succeeding. As the years passed, many in the 
Zhentarim advocated holding off on the planned seizure of 
the Citadel. After all, other people's lives and gold were 
shielding Zhentil Keep itself so well that gold coins were 
pouring into more than a few laps in the city due to the ben 
eficial trade atmosphere. 

Perhaps, though, the Black Network felt pressured by its 
setbacks -or perhaps it was emboldened by its recent success 
over the Mulman navy. For whatever reason, after eighty-odd 
winters had passed, the time seemed right to act. Zhentarim 
mages in the Citadel used poison and magic to slaughter the 
non-Zhentilar elements in the garrison and then took the 
Citadel for their own. They acted when a large ore army was 
approaching the Citadel and most of the warriors had sallied 
forth to do battle. 

The ores (possibly aided by Zhentarim magic, and certain 
ly probably goaded into the attack by Zhentarim promises) 
prevailed in the fray. The defeated warriors found the walls 
held against them. Trapped in a vise, they were caught in the 
open and butchered. Galauntar Hawkhelm, gray-haired 
despite liberal use of potions of longevity, rallied a small number 
of skilled warriors who fought their way clear. Later they 
would become the Knights of the North, bitter foes of every 
thing Zhentish. Tragically, Hawkhelm was mortally wounded 
in the charge and never saw his knights to freedom. When 
night came, the banner of Zhentil Keep flew from the 
Citadel's battlements. 




19 














Zhentil Keep had planned to crush the armies of the 
Moonsea cities with this stroke and render its rivals defense 
less. With the Citadel taken, a Zhentarim-ruled empire was 
expected to follow swiftly. Thus, Zhentilar troops set out for 
Melvaunt, Thentia, Yulash, and Daggerdale even as pleas 
were made for more troops to replace the "tragically over 
whelmed" force under Hawkhelm. 

The members of the Zhentarim, however, had overlooked 
their neighbors' wariness and the might of adventurers in the 
area. The other cities, apprised of the Zhentarim treachery 
through magic, prepared to act. The majority of Melvaunt's 
troops, brought to the field to resist the ores, simply waited 
for the Zhentilar threat. Cormyr sent troops to Daggerdale, 
and Sembia sent mercenaries and much coin to Hillsfar, 
intending to stop Zhentil Keep from simply rolling over the 
Dalelands. Various lone mages and adventuring bands 
administered sharp defeats to Zhentilar troops all around the 
Moonsea shores. More than a few Zhentarim mages operat 
ing undercover in foreign cities were suddenly unmasked and 
very publicly dismembered; it was made clear that their iden 
tities and activities had been known for some time. 

In all, the Zhent gains were small -most of Daggerdale 
was regained, while the bulk of the Zhentilar were stopped at 
Yulash by the Red Cloaks of Mulmaster. The situation quick 
ly stalemated as Yulash erupted in civil war. With the coming 
of winter, Zhentil Keep suddenly learned prudence, and a 
time of uneasy peace began. The Zhentarim fought a few 
skirmishes around Yulash and Voonlar to remind everyone 
that Zhents were too powerful to trifle with, ignore, or try to 
blockade. However, the Zhentarim ceased to depend on 
open warfare to achieve its ends and established extensive 
networks of often-unwitting agents to further its aims and 
interests. Its new policy depended on corruption and local 
domination by mages. 

It was fate and opportunity that saved the Zhents from all- 
out counterattack the next spring. Seizing on the distraction 
of the Zhent threat, Lashan of Scardale attacked his neigh 
bors. Here was a threat to Sembia and Cormyr even closer 
(and thus greater) than Zhentil Keep. Worse still, the 
Cormyrean/Sembian force was far north, unable to quickly 
counter Lashan. Peace with Zhentil Keep was necessary, and 
the Zhentarim seized upon that necessity to gain an advan 
tage even in losing by lending a force to crush the upstart 
Lashan. Caught in a bind, the Zhents' enemies could not 
refuse. In the end, Lashan was crushed, and the Zhentarim 
was well on the way to founding a new secret base in 
Scardale with the agents it left as part of a multilateral provi 
sional government of the Dale. 

The Keep's gains in the south were followed by losses in 
the north. While all sides in the Scardale conflict were 


exhausted by war, the Knights of Myth Drannor returned to 
Shadowdale and restored true rule to the Dale. (Khelben 
Arunsun gave them the Pendant of Ashaba in return for ser 
vices they rendered to Shadowdale and himself.) Zhentarim 
influence was purged from the valley. 

In the next few years things stood at a stalemate in the 
Moonsea region and the Dales, with various sides making 
abortive attacks on each other and the civil war in Yulash 
grinding on. In the Year of the Prince (1357 DR), the High 
Imperceptor of Bane sent an emissary force, led by High 
Inquisitor Ginali (who worked with a beholder named 
Orox), to the Black Altar in Zhentil Keep to attempt to 
bring that church back under his sway. Some warrior-priests 
affiliated with the High Imperceptor actually even attacked 
the Black Altar and Fzoul during this mission. If Ginali could 
not persuade Fzoul to recant and rejoin the main Banite 
church in the Moonsea, then his orders were to set up a sec 
ond temple to Bane in the city to minister to the faithful who 
did see the light, and from there to work to retake the Black 
Altar. 

Fzoul, preoccupied with the troublesome exploits of one 
Alias of the Azure Bonds and a power struggle within the 
ranks of the Zhentarim involving acquiring a woman with 
spellfire (Shandril Shessair), retreated to his tower and 
briefly abandoned the Black Altar (which the Orthodox 
Banite still called the Dark Shrine). He then forcefully 
rejected Ginali's demands that he rejoin the main church 
and reasserted his control over the Black Altar, and a short 
period of open conflict between Fzoul's faction and more 
orthodox Banites ensued. Fzoul waited just long enough to 
act, however, that the more orthodox members of his faith 
permanently split off and joined Ginali, who erected a small 
new temple to Bane he named the Dark Shrine-which the 
High Imperceptor in Mulmaster asserted was the proper 
name for the temple in Zhentil Keep. 

Then, the world changed. 

The Time 
of Troubles 

I n the Year of Shadows (1358 DR), Bane's avatar came to 
Zhentil Keep. He had been forced out of the heavens by 
Ao, along with his fellow deities, in response to the theft of the 
Tablets of Fate. It was in fact Bane and Lord Myrkul who had 
stolen the Tablets of Fate. They believed, incorrectly, that the 
Tablets were the key to Ao's power. The night Bane came down 
to Zhentil Keep is known to all Zhents as the Arrival. 

On that fateful night, accompanied by fire from the sky. 
Bane's spirit fell from the heavens, directly on top of his dark 


20 













temple in Zhentil Keep, the Black Altar. The force of the 
landing destroyed the temple, save for the throne room that 
served as an altar of power for Bane. Once Bane adjusted to 
his new body, that of Zhentish citizen Trannus Kialton, he 
commanded the Black Altar to be rebuilt in a form more 
suitable his glory. Fzoul and Sememmon, a mage of the 
Zhentarim, led a force of Zhentilar in a distracting assault on 
the Twisted Tower of Ashaba for Bane so that he could 
reach the temple of Lathander there. When Bane's mortal 
avatar form was destroyed in a battle with Mystra, Midnight, 
and Elminster at Lathander's temple. Bane possessed the 
body of Fzoul for a period of time until he transferred his 
essence into an obsidian form. 

Bane and Myrkul worked together during the Time of 
Troubles, pursuing their evil agenda while the Realms shook 
with the chaos that the avatars' arrivals brought with it. Bane 
was killed by Torm, God of Duty, outside the city of Tantras. 
Myrkul died over the skies of Waterdeep, a victim of the lady 
mage Midnight's magic. Cyric slew the physical body of 
Kelemvor Lyonsbane, who had been a trail companion of 
both himself and Midnight, but Kelemvor's spirit wound up 
trapped in the sword Godsbane. 

When the Time of Troubles ended. Midnight had taken 
the mantle of Mystra as the goddess of magic. Cyric had also 
ascended to godhood and gained the portfolios of Bane, 
Myrkul, and Bhaal, the latter apparently perishing after his 
banishment from the Moonshae Isles. The worship of Cyric 
was centered at his new temple in Zhentil Keep, called the 
Circle of Darkness, with Maskul Mirrormane as its high 
priest. 

The avatar form of Iyachtu Xvim, the Godson of Bane, 
was destroyed during the early days of the Time of Troubles. 
His surviving spirit was drawn to an ancient imprisonment 
circle under Zhentil Keep. Xvim remained there, unable to 
leave and angry that he had been removed from the picture 
before he even had the chance to strike at his father. He 
turned his dark cunning and simmering wrath to eventually 
escaping. 

A small fellowship of sages and scholars proposed the rad 
ical theory that Ao himself had divine foreknowledge of 
Cyric's ascendancy to godhood and thus hamstrung Xvim so 
that the quasi-power could not rush in to fill the void left by 
Bane's death. Xvim could indeed have had legitimate claim 
to his father's portfolio, as he was of the same flesh, blood, 
and spirit as the evil god. Put simply, Xvim was Bane's heir. 

Keepiwg the FaJTh 

T he coming of the avatars had brought much damage, 
grief, and chaos to the Realms. Throughout city and 


countryside alike, areas of wild magic sprang up, and in some 
places magic died. It was a time for regrouping, rebuilding, 
and revenge. 

Not all of the priests of the late, great Bane flocked 
immediately to Cyric's side. Many stubbornly maintained 
that Bane was not dead, but rather was in the midst of exe 
cuting a very cunning plan. He would return, they assured a 
rapidly doubting populace, and he would remember those 
who deserted him and deal with them accordingly. Many of 
these priests-who called themselves Orthodox Banites, the 
Waiting Faithful, the True Followers of Bane, and other 
even more pretentious names - pointed to the fact that 
their prayers for spells were still being granted as a sign that 
Bane was alive and well. Little did these stubborn, misguid 
ed fools realize that it was Cyric himself who was granting 
them their powers. 

Some sages versed in matters divine say that Cyric perpet 
uated this confusing situation for two reasons: First, he was 
the god of lies and could not resist the chance to prevaricate 
in such a broad way. Second, he hoped to eventually lure the 
stubborn priests to his cause. After all, Ao had decreed that a 
deity's power would wax and wane in proportion with his or 
her worshipers and how great their faith was. The stubborn, 
but incredibly faithful, holdouts of Bane were a vast well- 
spring of the power of belief, and Cyric coveted it. 

For three years, Cyric kept the lie alive, but the number of 
stubborn Banites who "saw the light of the Dark Sun" and 
turned to worshiping Cyric were few indeed. Cyric gradually 
lost patience with the Orthodox Banites. Eventually, he 
became enraged at their refusal to acknowledge his greatness 
and ended his policy of tolerance. 

During this time, Iyachtu Xvim lay in incorporeal form in 
an ancient pit under Zhentil Keep. Much in the same way 
the old god Moander lay trapped under Yulash until released, 
so was Xvim trapped under the Keep, fuming and plotting. 

The BAMec^eaXb 

O nce Cyric's power was consolidated - and it was a 
considerable amount of power indeed -he unleashed 
it in a terrible move of calculated cruelty. On a frosty night, 
the final night of Marpenoth in the Year of Maidens (1361 
DR), a huge column of flame erupted from a low-hanging 
cloud and set the Black Altar of Zhentil Keep on fire. This 
was the signal for the Banedeath to commence. 

The Banedeath was an inquisition launched by Cyric 
through his agent Xeno Mirrormane, the brother of Maskul 
Mirrormane. Xeno led the followers of Cyric through the 
dark, twisted streets of Zhentil Keep in an attempt to 
cleanse the city of all Banite worship. Known worshipers of 


21 













Bane were dragged from their beds at swordpoint. Businesses 
owned by Banites were vandalized, looted, or burned. In the 
ensuing days, widespread fighting peppered the Keep and 
made life even more dangerous than usual. Besides burning 
the Black Altar of the more moderate Banites under Fzoul, 
Xeno's followers besieged and demolished the Dark Shrine, 
the church of ultra-orthodox Banite worship in Zhentil 
Keep. It was so utterly and completely destroyed that not 
one brick remained stacked on another. High Inquisitor 
Ginali of the Dark Shrine disappeared in the confusion and 
managed to flee Xeno's purge (despite claims that he per 
ished in the Banedeath). 

The Banites were given two choices: worship Cyric or 
explain to him in person why he was not worthy of worship. 
Of course, the second choice required that the Banite die, see 
ing as only then could he meet Cyric, God of the Dead, face- 
to-face. This proved to be a very effective recruiting tech 
nique, and many did indeed "see the light of the Dark Sun." 

Maskul Mirrormane was slain by his younger brother, 
Xeno, after the Banedeath had reached its height, and Xeno 
then took command of the Circle of Darkness. The Black 
Altar had occupied prime real estate in Zhentil Keep. The 


Circle of Darkness took over the Black Altar's grounds and 
what remained of its structure and relocated the church of 
Cyric there, abandoning their more modest former structure 
in favor of a glorious new temple complex. This reconsecrat 
ed church became the Black Altar of Cyric, and it was now 
the sole temple of death and strife in Zhentil Keep, and 
Cyric was the god venerated within its foul walls. Fzoul 
Chembryl, the high priest of the Black Altar of Bane, was 
allowed to live due to a mysterious "special relationship" 
with Cyric, as well as his extensive connections within the 
Black Network. 

The Banedeath lasted for the rest of the year. At last, on 
the first day of Hammer in the Year of the Helm (1362 DR), 
Mirrormane declared that this year was to be referred to by 
the faithful as Year One of Cyric's Undisputed Rule. The 
inquisition was over, and it had been declared a complete 
success. 

In fact, however, if the goal of the Banedeath was to 
eliminate all traces of Bane worship from the city, it was not 
such a success. (Historians also noted with interest at the 
time that the Cyricists did not repeat the "cleansing" at 
other places of Zhentish power such as Yulash, Darkhold, 




22 










































Teshwave, and the Citadel of the Raven.) Zhentil Keep is 
littered with numerous subterranean passages, sewers, and 
catacombs. Bane worship was driven underground, figura 
tively and literally. Certainly the majority of Bane's devoted 
converted or were executed, but some survived, more deter 
mined to continue in their beliefs than ever, their hatred 
glowing white hot in their corrupt hearts. 

One small group of Banites who fled underground passed 
through a little-used sewer section and happened upon the 
ruins of the subterranean portion of a small fortified build 
ing in the Foreign Quarter. These battered, resentful faith 
ful sensed a familiar presence, close yet out of reach. This 
turned out to be Xvim, brooding in his pit, his energies 
waning. It would take several years, but eventually Xvim 
was accepted by them as the true heir to Bane. He then 
tapped the strong beliefs of this small sect, and began gain 
ing in strength. 

The CobisoVidATiOH 

F or the next six years, the city of Zhentil Keep grew in 
power and evil. Even though there were temples to 
other gods in the Keep, it was Cyric who ruled supreme 
through his clergy and other followers. During this period, 
Cyric's followers consolidated their gains and formed an 
ecclesiastical hierarchy. The Black Network continued in its 
attempts at domination of the Moonsea and the Dalelands, 
while the clergy of Cyric spread word of his might through 
out the Realms. 

During this period, the growing might of Cyric through 
out Faerun forced the High Imperceptor of Bane into hiding. 
The church of Cyric's inquisitors fretted restlessly, wanting to 
get their hands on the greatest living manifestation of the 
now-discredited Bane's power, but the High Imperceptor 
slipped through their fingers. A constant watch was kept at 
his lavish retreat in Sembia; however, he has never shown up 
there to claim the riches he has undoubtedly squirreled away 
on its premises. (He is actually still hiding in Mulmaster, 
which had always been his power base.) 

Cyric's hatred for Mystra continued to fester. In fact, even 
though the members of his clergy did their best to proselytize 
in his name, Cyric was dissatisfied with his lot. He deserved 
better, no matter how well things were going. He wanted to 
command the loyalty, worship, and obedience of all in the 
Realms, and began pondering how best to achieve this. 

The civil war in Yulash continued to drag on, with Zhen 
til Keep backing one faction and Hillsfar backing the other. 
The war had now degenerated into a prolonged covert strug 
gle in the shadows, punctuated by the occasional flare-up of 
open, larger-scale skirmishes between military forces. 


The ReaUgKjmeKjT 

D uring the period of consolidation, the forces of the 
Black Network, led by the wizard Manshoon, realized 
that Cyric was no Bane. Whereas Bane was an experienced, 
wily, patient sort, Cyric was a fool, a hot-headed recent mor 
tal who still retained his mortal perspectives. Cyric was a bane 
on Zhentil Keep. 

Manshoon quietly made plans to relocate the Network's 
main base of operations outside of Zhentil Keep. Over a period 
of six months, he secretively and gradually shifted supplies, 
other resources, and personnel to new quarters in the Citadel of 
the Raven. The Zhentarim outright took over a large portion of 
the sprawling complex. Lord Chess was too stupid to notice the 
change, Xeno Mirrormane was too preoccupied with the hier 
archical struggles within the church of Cyric, and Cyric himself 
in his arrogance never thought that Manshoon would ever 
contemplate such an action, let alone take it. 

Fzoul Chembryl knew precisely what was going on, yet he 
said nothing. Fzoul, still embittered by his fall from high 
power and privilege after the Banedeath, decided that what 
Manshoon chose to do was none of his business. Besides, 
Fzoul was also still part of the Zhentarim's Inner Circle, and 
he well understood that Cyric's actions would lead to ruin. 
Fzoul thought it best to just sit back and allow Manshoon to 
make the necessary changes. 

By the beginning of the Year of the Staff (1366 DR), the 
realignment of Zhentarim resources was complete. It had 
taken just six months to accomplish, and no one who should 
not have known about it ever did until it was far too late. 

The YeaR 
of Discorzd 

T he Year of the Banner (1368 DR) began with hope - 
then disintegrated quickly. Precisely six years to the day 
from when Cyric's Undisputed Rule had been declared, 
Cyric's inquisitors launched a second inquisition, this one 
erupting suddenly in Yulash, Darkhold, Teshwave, and the 
Citadel of the Raven. Its purpose was simple: cleanse all 
Zhentish holdings of all nonbelievers. 

The inquisition went well, though the inquisitional efforts 
in Yulash diverted resources from fighting Hillsfarian forces 
there. The Zhentilar in Yulash became increasingly vulnerable 
to Hillsfarian offensives, until finally they retreated from the 
embattled city, leaving Hillsfar the victor-holding an overglo 
rified mound of ruins enclosed in a crumbling city wall. 

Even with the successful inquisition, Cyric was not satis 
fied. He needed people to not only fear him, but also to wor- 












ship him-to adore him. In order to achieve this, he sought to 
create the Cyrinishad, the history of Cyric as dictated (and 
extremely rationalized) by the god himself. This work was to 
be ensorcelled so that whoever read its pages would become a 
loyal worshiper of the Dark Sun, believing, in fact, that Cyric 
was the only deity worthy of worship. All of the other gods of 
Faerun, with no worshipers left, would fade away. 

However, the right scribe had to be found who could ade 
quately transfer the words to parchment with the right phrasing 
and in harmony with the enchantments to empower the work. 
Many attempts were made to inscribe the work, but none of 
them had the power to convert the reader wholeheartedly. They 
were are flawed to one degree or another. An irritated Cyric had 
each unsuccessful scribe horribly killed when his or her version of 
the Cyrinishad failed to pass his test. Cyric eventually executed all 
known scribes in Zhentil Keep through his efforts. 

Bevis, an illuminator who was tortured to death for writing 
an ineffective version of the Cyrinishad, mentioned that he 
had a daughter, Rinda, who had been schooled as a scribe, 
though she was not one currently. Rinda was pressed into ser 
vice to attempt yet another creation of the Cyrinishad. Fortu 
nately for her, she had the necessary talent to write the book 
the way Cyric wanted it to be written, and chillingly, it did 
indeed affect the minds of all who read it. 

Critic's PLan 

bove all else, Cyric feared losing the worship of Zhentil 
Keep. He correctly surmised that if he lost the faith of the 
people of the Keep, he would lose the power he needed to keep 
control of the City of Strife, his center of power in the Gray 
Waste (Hades). In order to not only secure his worship in the 
Keep and elsewhere, but also to increase it, Cyric launched a 
three-pronged attack. The first prong was the creation of the 
Cyrinishad. Little did Cyric now that a true history of his life 
was also being written. Called, appropriately enough, The True 
Life of Cyric, it was commissioned by Fzoul Chembryl, backed by 
Oghrna, God of Knowledge, and written by Rinda, the same 
scribe who was creating Cyric's own foul book. Mask, God of 
Intrigue, was also a participant in the counterconspiracy. 

Cyric's second prong was the unleashing of special con 
structs built by Gond Wonderbringer, God of Invention, in all 
the major cities where the Zhentarim held sway. These clock 
work inquisitors were to strike down anyone who spoke even 
a single unflattering word against Cyric. 

The third prong of Cyric's plan was an attack on Zhentil 
Keep by frost giants, gnolls, and other humanoids, engi 
neered by none other than Cyric himself. Word of the 
approaching army would galvanize the city's faith in Cyric, 
boosting his power. The army would attack the Keep, but 


before it did any lasting, major damage, Cyric would inter 
vene, save the city, and win over the permanent gratitude, 
adulation, and worship of the populace. 

Unfortunately for Cyric, all three prongs were undermined 
almost from their conception. As mentioned earlier, Oghma 
and Fzoul initiated the creation of a true account of Cyric's 
life. Mystra, Goddess of Magic, intervened against the clock 
work inquisitors. And Oghma arranged it so that when Fzoul 
addressed the faithful of Zhentil Keep by reading from the 
Cyrinishad on the eve of the invading army's attack, the priest 
would instead read the final section of The True Life of Cyric, 
which told how the god was planning to dupe the city. At the 
same time as the reading, a revolt would be incited in Cyric's 
extraplanar power base, the City of Strife. 

the Death 
of Lorzd Chess 

L ord Chess, the foppish, fat lord of Zhentil Keep who 
ruled the city on paper only, was duped by Mask into 
conducting a ritual to bind Kezef the Chaos Hound, an entity 
which Cyric had entered into a bargain with to track the spir 
it of the Kelemvor Lyonsbane, which Cyric had never been 
able to find. (A point that obsessed him and contributed to 
his ever-enlarging paranoia.) Chess was resentful that Cyric 
had killed Leira, Goddess of Illusions. Leira had aided Chess 
in disguising his disgusting bulk from his courtesans. With her 
gone, his bloated form was once again in plain sight, a tortu 
ous fate for such a vain man. 

Mask used Chess's resentment to convince him to help 
with the ritual, which was held on the roof of Blackstaff 
Tower in Waterdeep without the owner's knowledge. The 
Chaos Hound was trapped, but at the cost of Chess's life. 
Mask attempted to frame Mystra for the deed, then left 
Chess's body in the tower, to puzzle the learned folk of Water- 
deep for years to come. 

Strife )n> 

the CiTy of Strife 

C yric, as the death god, drew much power from the part of 
the realm of the dead known as the City of Strife, where 
his Bone Castle was located. A key part of the plan to counter 
Cyric's ambitions was a revolt in the City of Strife. This 
revolt, incited by the clockwork inquisitors -who were now 
free of Cyric's tainted control-was timed to coincide with 
the ceremony at which Fzoul was to read in Zhentil Keep. 
Many of the gods participated in this part of the plan after 







24 











Mystra convinced each one of the sheer breadth of Cyric's 
treachery and what it would mean to each of them. The only 
condition the other gods had was that they be allowed to 
magically remove those citizens of Zhentil Keep who were 
faithful to them after Fzoul read from The True Life of Cyric 
and before the Keep was invaded. 

One of the clockwork inquisitors sent to stir up the City of 
Strife was controlled by a soul named Gwydion the Quick, who 
died as a mortal when Cyric fooled him into thinking that he 
was acting on the orders of Torm, God of Duty. Gwydion had 
died with no allegiance to any deity; thus he was claimed by 
Cyric in the afterlife, and locked into the Wall of the Faithless 
until his soul was put into a clockwork inquisitor. 

The DesTnucTioK) 
of the Keep 

X eno Mirrormane, FTigh Priest of Cyric, confronted 
Fzoul after his reading, but the damage had been done. 
The Black Altar, Cyric's temple in Zhentil Keep, was almost 
immediately struck by powerful divine fire from Mask, who 


had told Fzoul that he would help the priest when called 
upon. The flames devoured Xeno Mirrormane and proceeded 
to do likewise to the temple. 

As Cyric sat in his throne room, immobilized as an increas 
ing number of worshipers turned away from believing in him, 
the armies that Cyric had sent began laying siege to the Keep. 
Their attack was to be devastating. The orcish armies that 
served in the Zhentilar, resentful of their mistreatment under 
Cyric, rebelled and retreated from the Keep, blowing up the 
Tesh Bridge and the Force Bridge. This cut off the Foreign 
Quarter, which lies on the southern bank of the River Tesh, 
opposite the city's other quarters. Ironically, this act of destruc 
tion would save the southern portion of the city, giving the 
Zhents something to rebuild from later -after the siege. 

Ewd game 

s it turned out, Mask had disguised himself as the sword 
Godsbane since the time Cyric took the sword, while 
he was still mortal, from a group of halflings at Black Oaks in 
a battle during the Time of Troubles. This same sword had 
been used by Cyric to kill Kelemvor. Instead of Kelemvor's 




Xeno Mirrormane, High Priest of Cyric, meets a gruesome death, as Fzoul Chembryl watches. 


25 

































































spirit drifting off to the afterlife, Mask took his spirit and hid it 
within the sword. 

Cyric, angered at Godsbane's betrayal (which was revealed 
during the revolt in the City of Strife), shattered the sword. 
The act freed Kelemvor, and seemed to destroy Mask. 
Kelemvor used the remains of Godsbane to slay Cyric's form 
and drive him from the City of Strife. Cyric survived, having 
lost his powers as God of the Dead and his power base in the 
Gray Waste. He is now said to dwell somewhere on the for 
saken plane of Pandemonium. 

Kelemvor became the new God of the Dead. He took up 
the mantle of Judge of the Damned and transformed Bone 
Castle into the Crystal Spire, a reflection of the principle of 
clear and unobscured justice he set as the keynote of his god- 
hood. Gwydion's life was restored to him, and he was given a 
mission to protect the scribe Rinda, who still carried the 
Cyrinishad. The book, despite Cyric's setbacks, was still dev- 
astatingly powerful. 

The Trc.oubLe 
UDffb DeseKffeRs 

T he southern section of Zhentil Keep survived due to for 
tuitous disaster, as the armies of frost giants, white 
dragons, gnolls, and goblinkin settled into a siege around the 
northern portion of the Keep. When it became clear that 
Cyric was in no position to help the city, and that even his 
clergy were dying off, many Zhentilar paused for a moment to 
consider their situation. Here they were, under attack by a 
huge army of humanoids, giants, and dragons, rumored to be 
sent by none other than Cyric himself. Now Cyric was 
nowhere to be found, his temple was in flames, and many of 
the Zhentilar commanders were scattered or lay dead. To 
many Zhentilar, there was but one option. 

They ran away. 

In a splendid display of motivated self-interest at least 
1,500 of the city's Zhentilar and Zhentarim defenders, primar 
ily officers of some rank, removed their colors and fled their 
units. While some simply lost themselves in the twisted alleys 
of the Foreign Quarter and failed to make any attempt to 
come to the aid of their Zhent fellows across the river, the vast 
majority became marauding bands of brigands, making the 
Moonsea roads a dangerous place. 

The roads within a 100-mile radius of Zhentil Keep are 
now the favored targets of the brigands, who usually number 
from four to eight fighters. Most of the time, the brigands are 
happy just to steal all foodstuffs, money, and valuables from 
passersby. Victims who offer no resistance are then let go, 
sometimes after getting a sound beating. Priests of Cyric or 


Bane, as well as any worshipers who proudly display those 
holy symbols, are struck down without mercy. The brigands 
fear that if they let these people go, the devout souls will call 
down the divine wrath of those deities. "No prisoners" means 
"no supplications for divine intervention." 

Those deserters that lost themselves in the city most often 
simply descended into a life of wine-sotted destitution. In 
their minds, this is an infinitely better fate than being hacked 
to death by a frost giant or blast-frozen in an upright position 
for all eternity by a white dragon. The more ambitious and 
hard-working deserters, however, have moved into vacant 
Foreign Quarter buildings and set up businesses for them 
selves. Some are doing quite well. 

Whatever their occupation - shopkeeper, drunkard, or 
brigand -all the deserters believe, quite correctly, that Cyric 
is far too busy with matters of greater importance to hunt 
down a handful of deserters. By the same token, the Zhentilar 
still in Zhentil Keep are too busy fighting for their lives to be 
concerned about the deserters, as well. 

Ironically, two gods are offended by the deserters: Tempus, 
Lord of Battles, and Torm, God of Duty. The former believes 
that the deserters are cowards, and the latter, while harboring 
no love for the evil of Zhentil Keep, is angered at the fact that 
these soldiers broke their vows (explicit or implicit) of loyalty. 
Though no one knows it, a very special (and dire) fate awaits 
each deserter, courtesy of Torm and Tempus. 

ZhewTil. Keep Nouj 

T he biggest obstacle to Zhentil Keep's eventual recovery 
was the armies of frost giants, gnolls, other humanoids, 
and white dragons that surrounded the Keep and attacked it. 
The armies eventually left the area, although stragglers remain. 
Most of the white dragons, the least organized of all the at 
tackers, left first, their minds turning instead to hunting and 
other more draconian pursuits, liking counting their hoards. 

The frost giants left next. With Cyric gone, Zzutam, the 
frost elemental whom the frost giants that attacked the Keep 
worshiped as a deity, regained control of his worshipers and sent 
them back to their homelands. Zzutam did this not out of altru 
ism or love for the Keep, but rather out of principle. He hated 
Cyric for what the dark god forced him and his people to do. 
Zzutam may not be the most intelligent elemental force, hut he 
has his pride and a good memory as well. Cyric humiliated him 
by making him kowtow to Cyric's will. But with Cyric gone, 
nothing stopped Zzutam from recalling his forces. 

The humanoid armies were the last to leave, intent as 
they were on doing the most looting and causing the most 
damage possible. However, without the dragons and the 
giants to keep the more elite forces of the Zhentilar at bay. 




26 










The Tnue TimeLiwe 
of ZhewTjL Keep 


remaining at the Keep became an increasingly risky venture. 

The last army left the Keep at the end of the fourth month 
of the siege. They left behind a collection of stragglers and 
forces turned to brigandage, hundreds of scavengers of all types 
attracted by the destruction and carnage, a huge sprawling ruin 
to the north of the Tesh, and a small walled portion of the city 
to the south that still dared call itself Zhentil Keep. 

The Death Toll 

I t is a sad fact of life that in times of war, the brunt of the 
pain inflicted falls upon the shoulders of innocents. Fam 
ilies are tom apart, wives widowed, children orphaned - 
those that survive, that is. Perhaps it is fitting, then, that for 
once the judgment that befell this center of evil managed to 
avoid the innocent, for the most part. 

As mentioned before, deities other than Cyric pulled their 
faithful out of the city and brought them to places of safety. 
Most wound up in the Dalelands, though some materialized in 
the temples of their respective deities in Hillsfar, Mulmaster, 
and Thentia. Scholars estimate that out of the population of 
83,000 that dwelt within the walls of the Keep at that time, 
about 13,000 were rescued in this manner, most of them being 
the more honest, hardworking sorts, including many families. 

In an interesting twist of logic, Chauntea the Earth Mother 
declared that the orphaned children of Zhentil Keep were sym 
bolic of new life and were therefore her followers. Invoking this 
logic, she rescued every orphaned child from that city. They 
were transported magically to various cities of the Realms, and 
the brighter ones were selected to be raised as druids by her cler 
gy. Many deities were skeptical about Chauntea's right to do 
this, but decided not to make waves about the matter for now. 
This holds especially true for the good-aligned deities, who 
could not find it in themselves to chide a fellow goddess for sav 
ing innocent, helpless children from a cruel fate. 

About 9,000 people managed to flee the city before the brunt 
of the armies swept in. Once again, this included many families, as 
parents concerned for their offspring felt naturally compelled to 
leave and seek a safer home elsewhere. The refugees also included 
a large part of the population of the Foreign Quarter. Since most 
residents of this quarter were foreigners, they saw no reason to 
stick around and fight (or die) for the city. In one of those quirks of 
fate, the flight of the Keep's foreigners left a huge number of 
vacant buildings, buildings that were then occupied by Zhents 
fleeing from the northern half of the city. 

The death toll in Zhentil Keep, all told, was about 42,000 
people, about half the city's population at the time the siege 
began. The southern section now holds around 17,000 peo 
ple. The remainder, numbering about 2,500, still dwell in the 
ruined northern section. 


T he following is an excerpt from a letter to Sememmon 
from his master Manshoon, regarding the changing of 


There have been other timelines for the Realms, my student, 
but as any Zhent will tell you these histories are prejudicial at 
best, and more often outright deceitfd lies. The nations of the 
south, particularly Cormyr and Sembia, have every interest in 
painting the Zhents black. Such lies serve to justify their own 
dark deeds and to counter the threat that Zhentil Keep's contin 
ued economic dominance plays to their no longer vital nations. 

Presented here is a true timeline of the Keep and events that 
have for years been laid blamefully at the feet of all Zhents. 
Where dates are different from other timelines, it is clearly 
because Zhentish historians have better records of such matters. 
Readers from the southern nations, should they obtain this 
record, may be shocked and outraged by the events below. Such 
is the effect of truth's radiance on those whose eyes have been 
veiled for too long. 


640 T7re Year of the Tanged Beast 

First mining and trading encampments established at 
what will become Zhentil Keep. 

714 The Year of Doom 

Fall of Myth Drannor allows merchants a direct, but 
dangerous, trade route from Sembia to the River 
Tesh trade camp. 

747 Year of Stagnate Water 

Flostren's Hold built. It survives several ore and ogre 
attacks. 

748 Year of the Coin 

Flostren bought out by a consortium of Sembian 
merchants who are later known as the Twelve Lords. 

750 Year of the Dying Dwarf 

First walls of Flostren's Hold built. 

Elephstron becomes Lord of the Keep. 

751 Year of Good Tidings 

Zhentar comes to Flostren's Hold and becomes a lord. 

752 Year of High Treachery 

The Cleansing of the Council -those lords opposed 
to Zhentar receive their just rewards. 

Brest, warrior-priest of Bane, is guided by visions 
from his god to accept a seat on the Council. 

753 Year of Strife 

The Dark Shrine, temple to Bane, is founded by 
High Priest Brest, as prophesied. 



the Realms' calendar to reflect the Time of Troubles. 


2 7 














Lord Zhentar is slain by a sorcerous agent of the 
Sembians. Lord Elephstron dies as an innocent vic 
tim of this deed. 

Jhoaz, Elephstron's son, named to the Council of 
Lords as Lord of the Keep. 

Flostren's Hold renamed Zhentil Keep to honor the 
memory of Zhentar. 

754 Year of Mid-Summer's Dreams 

Zhentil Keep starts a program of expansion, erecting 
new walls and the first bridge across the Tesh. 

775 Year of the Bloody Stone 

The new walls of Zhentil Keep are finished. 

796 The Year of Gray Mists 

Zhent caravan masters report that night-terrors in 
Merryvale have made the route too dangerous. Seek 
ing a new road to the south, the Zhents are the only 
surface dwellers to set aside violence and make peace 
with the drow of the Ashaba valley. 

882 The Year of the Curse 

The Night Plague descends on Zhentil Keep only to 
be broken by the might of the Zhentilar, defenders of 
all Zhents. 

902 The Year of the Queen's Tears 

Zhentilar troops are attacked by Phlanite raiders, 
forcing Zhentil Keep to act in protection of its bor 
ders. 

906 Tire Year of the Plough 

The Treaty of The Ride is concluded between Zhen 
til Keep, Phlan, and Melvaunt. 

Cormyte agents seize the Ashaba valley and name it 
Shadowdale; Zhent trade is restricted. 

1018 The Year of the Dracorage 

A great Flight of Dragons assaults Zhentil Keep. The 
old keep is destroyed, but the city is saved by its wiz 
ards and priests of Bane; the most notable spellcast- 
ers are elevated to the Council as reward for their 
services, filling the gaps created by the dragons. 
Rumors point to the Cult of the Dragon as the per 
petrators of the vile act for reasons still unknown. 

1164 The Year of Long Shadows 

Southern imperialists attempt to seize Zhentil Keep's 
main caravan route by founding the town of Voon- 
lar. 

1221 The Year of the Frozen Flower 

Voonlar, beset by the Harper King, a terror 
unleashed by the ill-guided Harpers, signs a treaty of 
mutual defense and trade with Zhentil Keep. 

1229 The Year of the Carrion Croiv 

Manshoon, Gifted of the Gods and future savior of 
all Zhents, is born. 


1245 The Year of Pain 

A temple to Loviatar is founded as Zhentil Keep 
extends its arms to the oppressed religions of the 
south. 

1258 Tire Year of Wilted Floivers 

Lords Harlshoon and Calkontor die in a terrible 
accident, possibly the result of Cormyte/Sembian 
treachery; their places on the Council are taken by 
Lords Theilon and Ulsan. 

1259 Tire Year of the Vigilant Fist 

Lord-Prince Manshoon is guided by the gods to take 
up the study of magic. 

Manshoon is unable to prevent the tragic death of his 
brother, Asmuth, and evidence suggests the death 
was the work of the fearful lords Theilon and Ulsan; 
Manshoon promises his brother's spirit justice. 
Zhentilar forces are victorious in the Battle of the 
Masks, though Lord Theilon dies valiantly in the 
fight. 

1260 The Year of the Broken Blade 

Manshoon and Chess return to Zhentil Keep, bring 
ing with them evidence that Lord Ulsan betrayed 
Lord Theilon in battle; Ulsan denies the proof and 
refuses to recognize Manshoon as a rightful lord of 
the Council. 

1261 TIk Year of Bright Dreams 

Supported by the people, Manshoon exposes the 
treacherous Lord Ulsan's ties to Cormyr; Lord Ulsan 
is publicly executed for his crimes. Manshoon claims 
his seat as a lord of the Council. 

For the security of all Zhents, Manshoon founds the 
Zhentarim; the organization is kept secret to protect 
it from enemy spies. 

1263 The Year of the Tressym 

The High Imperceptor of Bane, operating from his 
headquarters in the temple of Bane in Mulmaster, 
the Black Lord's Altar, is shown to be a heretical 
puppet of Mulman interests. 

Fzoul Chembryl steps forward in Zhentil Keep to 
take up the reins of authority of the Dark Shrine of 
Bane during the turmoil within the Zhentish church 
following this revelation; he rededicates the Dark 
Shrine as the Black Altar, indicating by this change 
where the allegiance of true followers of Bane should 
fall. 

1265 Tire Year of Flowers 

The Voice of Bane miraculously reveals itself to the 
Zhentilar at the Temple in the Sky. 

1270 The Year of the Tooth 

Several realms learn of the existence of the Zhen- 


28 













1276 

1303 


1306 


1312 


1316 


1334 


1337 


tarim through its enemies; countless hundreds flock 
to Zhentil Keep to join its ranks. 

Tire Year of the Crumbling Keep 

Guided by the wisdom of the Zhents, the forces of 
humanity rebuild the Citadel of the Raven. 

Tire Year of the Evening Sun 

The Zhent-backed garrison at the Citadel of the 
Raven blocks the ogres of Thar, forcing them to turn 
east. 

Despite Zhentilar efforts to relieve the city, Phlan is 
overrun when Melvaunt ignores the Triple Treaty 
and refuses to send troops to Phlan's defense. 

The Year of Thunder 

Zhentil Keep, acting with a multilateral force includ 
ing Sembia, Hillsfar, Phlan, and Melvaunt, thwarts 
Mulrnan imperialistic desires, denying exclusive use 
of the River Lis to that city in the Moonsea War. 
Many dragon raids plague the cities of the Moonsea, 
including Phlan; the might of the Zhentilar, the 
Zhentarim, and Bane's faithful deter the foul beasts 
from any assault on Zhentil Keep. 

The Year of the Griffin 

Since the Purple Dragons of Cormyr do not extend 
their protection to the people of the Tunlands, Man- 
shoon leads the Zhentarim against the lich-queen of 
Darkhold. She is slain by Manshoon, and the Far 
Hills are freed from her evil. Zhentarim remain in 
Darkhold to ensure the safety of the region. 

The Year of the Gulagoar 

Fearing the imperialistic moves of Rhigaerd II, King 
of Cormyr, Teshendale seeks the protection of the 
Zhentilar and becomes part of the Zhentish lands. 

The Year of the Blazing Brand 

Lord Manshoon is named first lord of the Council of 
Lords by the retiring first lord, Iorltar. 

Several lords of Zhentil Keep are slain when treacher 
ous forces from Thay attack a Council meeting at 
High Hall. 

Lord Chess is presented with the title of Watchlord of 
the Council and assumes the duties of speaker of the 
council previously held by the first lord. 

Manshoon relinquishes this onerous part of his duties 
willingly to devote his time to the Zhentarim for the 
protection of Zhentil Keep and all Zhents. 

The Year of the Wandering Maiden 
With forces building in The Ride and the Land of 
Thar, the lords confirm Manshoon in his position of 
High Lord of Zhentil Keep for the betterment and 
security of all Zhents. All military forces of Zhentil 
Keep are placed beneath his able direction. 


1339 

1345 

1346 

1347 

1350 

1352 

1353 

1354 

1355 


1356 


The Year of the Weeping Moon 

The Zhentarim aids Jyordhan in assuming his rightful 
throne in Shadowdale. 

Shadowdale and Zhentil Keep sign a treaty of friend 
ship and trade. 

The Year of the Saddle 

Jyordhan of Shadowdale is assassinated by southern 
provocateurs and his throne usurped; the treaty with 
Zhentil Keep is treacherously broken. 

The Year of the Bloodbird 

The king of Cormyr charters a group of assassins and 
spies, basely called the Knights of Myth Drannor, and 
charges them with the overthrow of Zhentil Keep and 
the destruction of the Zhentarim. 

Tire Year of the Bright Blade 

Hulburg, harborer of pirate spies, is crushed beneath 
the might of the Zhentilar and the allies of Zhentil 
Keep. 

Tire Year of the Morningstar 

The Knights of Myth Drannor attack Zhentish lands 
without provocation, destroying our forces at the 
Flaming Tower, a Zhent frontier settlement, and des 
ecrate the Temple in the Sky. 

The beholders of the North seek an alliance with 
Manshoon for mutual protection. 

Tire Year of the Dragon 

Barbarians of The Ride destroy a large Zhentarim car 
avan en route to Glister. 

Tire Year of the Arch 

Malyk, legal ruler of Daggerdale, is assassinated by the 
outlaw Randal Morn, who then leads southern Dag 
gerdale in rebellion against Malyk's successor. 

Tire Year of the Bow 

The Zhentilar navy crushes the privateering fleet of 
Mulmaster, thus ensuring the safety of shipping on 
the Moonsea. 

Tire Year of the Harp 

After years of provocations and attacks on all Zhents, 
Zhentil Keep can no longer trust its allies at the 
Citadel of the Raven; the need to secure the safety of 
its northern border forces Zhentil Keep to assume 
control of the Citadel. 

Plotters from Hillsfar plunge Yulash into civil war; 
Zhentilar troops are requested to help defend the 
loyal factions of the city. 

Zhentilar troops repulse a combined Cormyrean and 
Sembian force marching on Zhentil Keep. 

Tire Year of the Worm 

As a gesture of goodwill, Zhentilar forces play a key 
role in putting down the insurrection of Lashan of 


29 












Scardale, who threatens Sembia. While Zhentilar 
forces are so occupied, those Sembian/Cormyte 
agents, the Knights of Myth Drannor, seize Shadow- 
dale. They name one of their own as lord, and drive 
off Lyran, the rightful heir and ally of Zhentil Keep, 
before he can claim his throne. 

The treacherous Knights of Myth Drannor attempt to 
overthrow the ruler of Voonlar, but they are driven 
back by the allied forces of that city and Zhentil Keep. 
In a cowardly retaliation, the Knights destroy several 
peaceful Zhentarim trading caravans and kill inno 
cent citizens of Voonlar who obtained Zhent goods. 
The Flight of Dragons is driven back from Teshwave by 
the valiant efforts of the Zhentilar, forcing the dragons 
to continue south; for future protection of the area, 
Manxam the beholder moves his base to Teshwave. 

1357 Tire Year of the Prince 

A force led by High Inquisitor Ginali, a puppet of 
the High Imperceptor of Bane in Mulmaster, 
attempts to seduce the faithful, led by Fzoul, back 
into the flock of the heretical High Imperceptor; 
Fzoul prevails, but a small number of deluded Banites 
leave the Black Altar to follow Ginali. 

High Priest and Inquisitor Ginali of Bane forms a 
rival temple of Bane in Zhentil Keep. This inferior 
edifice is named the Dark Shrine, in a pathetic 
attempt to confuse loyal Banites. 

A powerful Harper witch, Shandril, attacks the 
Citadel of the Raven, but is driven off by Zhentarim 
mages; many martyrs are mourned. 

Manshoon and Fzoul are briefly taken ill until the 
powers that protect Zhentil Keep restore them to 
health. 

Zhentil Keep wins a fierce naval battle against the 
forces of the rebellious cities of Melvaunt and Mul 
master; hostilities between Zhentil Keep and these 
former allies show no signs of ending. 

Late in the year, the civil war in Yulash flares. Ruffi 
ans of the rebellious faction backed by Hillfar take 
the city, only to be repulsed when it is retaken in the 
following month by loyalists; work parties from the 
Citadel of the Raven are sent to strengthen the 
defensive fortifications in Yulash. 

1358 Tire Year of Shadows 

Zhentil Keep is blessed by the coming of Bane's 
avatar. His temple in Zhentil Keep, the Black Altar, 
is reshaped into a home suitable for the god during 
his stay on this plane. 

In response to past attacks on Voonlar, the Zhentilar, 
under Bane, raid Shadowdale, killing many of the 


treacherous Knights of Myth Drannor and their 
allies. Fzoul and Sememmon prove able leaders in 
the forces of the Dark Lord, although Bane's avatar 
form is lost due to foul treachery. 

Fzoul serves Bane as a temporary avatar until the 
Dark Lord transfers his essence into an obsidian form 
more suitable to its divine nature. 

Bane is destroyed in hand-to-hand combat with the 
avatar of Torm in Tantras. 

Cyric, greater than Bane, Protector of the Zhentilar, 
ascends to the heavens; his temple in Zhentil Keep, 
the Circle of Darkness, is led by Maskul Mirrormane. 

1361 Tlie Year of Maidens 

The Banedeath cleanses Zhentil Keep of traitors, as 
false Banite worship is forbidden within the city by 
Cyric's inquisition, led by Xeno Mirrormane. The 
Dark Shrine is destroyed; the Black Altar is partially 
gutted by fire. 

The followers of Cyric rebuild the former Black 
Altar, reconsecrating it to Cyric's glory; the structure 
retains its former name, so as to cause the faithful of 
the consolidated churches less confusion. Xeno Mir 
rormane is its high priest. 

1362 The Year of the Helm 

Year One of Cyric's Undisputed Rule is declared by 
Xeno Mirrormane in a holy proclamation to the 
faithful of Zhentil Keep. 

1364 The Year of the Wave 

A bounty is placed on the heretical High Impercep 
tor of Bane, who has failed to appear before the 
church of Cyric in Zhentil Keep when summoned by 
its holy inquisitors. 

1366 Tire Year of the Staff 

Direction of Zhentil Keep is given to Lord Chess, as 
Lord Manshoon temporarily moves to the Citadel of 
the Raven to strengthen its fortifications. 

1368 The Year of the Banner 

Cyric's inquisitors purge Zhentil Keep, the Citadel of 
the Raven, Yulash, Darkhold, and Tesh of all nonbe 
lievers. 

The forces of Zhentil Keep aiding the freedom fight 
ers in Yulash regroup outside the city. 

Zhentil Keep is destroyed by the foes of Cyric as a 
punishment for the unfaithfulness of the people. 

1369 The Year of the Gauntlet 

1370 The Year of the Tankard 

1371 Tire Year of the Unstrung Harp 

1372 The Year of Wild Magic 


30 














"Things do not go well here, my friend. Manshoon, in his insanity, is gathering powerful wizards, clerics, 
and warriors throughout Zhentil Keep for some insane purpose. I have been contacted as well, and 
rumors are flowing regarding a secret cabal Manshoon is forming called the Zhentarim. I fear the grow 
ing evil of Zhentil Keep may soon spread beyond the Moonsea, and we will be helpless to halt it. This 
may 
be my last contact with you, for I fear for my life. It is difficult to tell whether Cormyr-nay, all of the 
Realms, would be safe from the unbalanced mind of Manshoon. What his exact plans are, only his inner 
circle has men a hint at. Rest assured, this black nehvork will only bring sorrow and destruction upon us. 
For the good of the land, I will stay to discover what I can. Should I not return, may Mystra guide and 
keep you through the years, my friend." 

-A letter from Nalon of Cornyr, War Wizard of Cormyr and spy in Zhentil Keep, 
to Vangerdahast, Royal Court Magician of Comyr, 1269 DR. 

Nalon was newer heard from again. 


't h e Zhentarim is a not-so-secret organization, comprising members recruit- 

irijJ ed by Manshoon and others within its Inner Circle, whose main goal is to 
iffuHlJtM dominate trade throughout the Realms. Although controlling trade is its 
A mV- L 1main objective, the Zhentarim is much more than a group of evil mer- 
kVg*-^fv / chants vying for wealth. Power is the key to the Zhentarim way of life. 
The more power one has within the Black Network, the more power one requires -and the 
more enemies one picks up along the way. Many contend that the Black Network will even 
tually consume itself, but history has proven that there are enough greedy, megalomaniacal, 
and malicious folk in the world to replace those lost to infighting within its ranks. Sadly 
enough, the Zhentarim is here to stay. 

The strength of the Zhentarim is its members' magic. The majority of Zhentarim are wiz 
ards and priests of Cyric (or Bane, depending on the time period). Rogues and warriors are 
also considered for membership, but only those of exceptional skill, possessing particularly 
good connections, or occupying strategic terrain are given the title of Zhentarim agents - 
the remainder are sent to the ranks of the Zhentilar. The bulk of Zhentarim wealth comes 
from the trade caravans it controls, carrying valuable goods of all kinds from place to place 
(including stolen goods, slaves, and other illegal, high-priced wares, as well as costly legal 
cargo such as precious gem ore). The Zhentarim's cutthroat mercantile reputation is built on 
its no-questions-asked practice of handling goods, its use of magic and strong-arm forces to 
guard shipments, and its ability to always get cargo through-regardless of the perils. The 
Black Network tries to get its goods to their destinations faster than everyone else, then 
undercuts its competitors' prices in an effort to put them out of business (then raising prices 
sky-high once there is no competition). It also resorts to vandalism, murder, arson, and 
other acts of sabotage in an effort to establish and control strategic trade routes across the 
Realms. 


Goals of the BLack NeTcuorck 

I n addition to trade, the Zhentarim has a long list of objectives Manshoon wishes to 
accomplish in the Moonsea and the rest of Toril, which are to: 


+ Control major political seats throughout the Moonsea. Such cities include, but are not re 
stricted to, Hillsfar, Mulmaster, Yulash, Phlan, Voonlar, Melvaunt, and other small cities 
and villages along the Moonsea, Sword Coast, and Western Heartlands. 


























+ Control the church of Cyric or Bane, depending on the 
time period. Though many within the Zhentarim are not 
dedicated heart and soul to one of these two evil deities, 
Manshoon and the Inner Circle see the potential of the 
church's leverage, both through its influence over its 
faithful and through its reputation among those who do 
not belong to it. Manshoon's personal long-range plans 
do not include being under the control of the church of 
a dark god; however, the church's dark agenda is fulfilled 
in some way by working with the Zhentarim. Manshoon 
also sees that sometimes religious influence allows him 
to motivate people when greed does not. 

+ Provide services that are considered illegal in most 
Moonsea communities. This includes supplying poisons, 
illicit and harmful drugs, weapons, and slaves -all at 
lucrative rates, of course. Though currently limited to 
the Moonsea vicinity, ambitious Zhentarim wish to 


expand this trade to the Sword Coast in the west and 
Mulhorand to the southeast. 

+ Ensure the utter destruction of all who stand in the way of 
these objectives. These enemies include Shadowdale, the 
Purple Dragons of Cormyr, Mulmaster, Hillsfar, the 
Harpers, the rulers of Sembia, the Cult of the Dragon, 
other Moonsea cities, the troublesome Elminster, and 
countless others. 

As a whole, the power of the Zhentarim reaches beyond 
any other organization in the Heartlands save perhaps the 
Harpers. Should the Black Network focus its entire might to 
accomplish one objective, it would likely emerge triumphant. 
However, individual Zhentarim have their own itineraries 
and evil designs. The Black Network's major weakness, cou 
pled with the fact that its members are scattered throughout 
the Realms, is its inability to focus on a single aim. 


The Zhentatiiim 


FzooL ChembH ( yl 


Lowfr MflnEhouri 

(MIS) 




r 

1 


ft-hidir. 






Xijlln 




| Liird Phunuy 

r 


Vl 1 1 . 1 r L 111-' f ¦ ¦ r 1 (fDI 


Ikbialtki* 

XiialnhniiL 

Znuiad 


Cludrih aL Ban-' 

Zlirratc tO) 
Dplb?te<C5> 
limit, (C4! 


IVuon Bihirrf.'F 

| I!.111tCTisnt,I 


IJ+ ZlbnifciL kmp 

I uhl C/hfr'K" Ml. P31 
U-iunukir UmLhylt i F-4 i 
L ad IVLinh 1FBJ 

Miim'InLf (himmint i (FI Ok 
(Jim ill ViHvjuhi i |TIU>| 
Lifj Alkia (M 41 
LjiuI t (TJf 


Tbeltiirv 
Mnlthe ( R,I 
IlniHTS-l 
Sihhjcin l 


Adv-Lum i I.M Lb I 1 


r 


Kun 

{M6> 

L _ 


t-n 

<M51 


-I- 

'iWkfl 

IM7I 


T 


1 


..i.b 


Ranhte (M j ) ¦ 


v"fk P im 

SillTlIlfKIOT 


Msttil ¦ 4FM> 
Llammnn • ll tj 
Jliaras LHI 


A initiated Wir* 
ILihnivl I.M /A 
lencLLf Qu"rv iryl (M9) 
Thru L"wn ¦¦ ¦¦¦ lM II) 


]|rl>nuL 

<MT) 


N ,i!h 
(T9.I 


UnuJ <¦{ Caraiwu 


r 

Ashetiw i, 1 


1 


Allies 

rwfen (Mini 

M !¦:"* (M95 
Et"ljltMLL} 

Ftnifer (T'H 

hhmiH HrJiUH.? (M9) 

Geidirr Ich^nnt 4 SEIKI 

Pvi, nti Tahimvii 
iralM LCD 


Farni 

(Mil 


J -1 

Hawd-d 

Droun LTD 


3 

Tht 

h-TVfibl'" 

LFI2} 


Itlli I AT 

pLikwinJ 

£F7| 


TheSutn 

Watch 


Slim K'.h-J Sem &(tm)bk 
(TSl (H) (T3J (Ttl 


M.iCk 'I |hc 

A | velvet an 1 (TH 


Canrtort 

LTitmakuTamkh I (FM !VJ"h llbirint LF3) 
Ulran It.irliclaum (FJJ 


Kr, u.mur KelldVriFl} 

21 |'|| ,r|--. tlriL l i"*~,r-v lO |i.". r|'l 

d"d^ 1 H 6 S W -dibtkwucH. "£***"**- W*""l <*"*!* d" 

hunrrlrp to dte rf *- R""i b, <llhcr HtMltftt utTwi -**<*•"¦( R"(tm)'l """ 


























































The SecReT HjsToRy 



T he hour was late when the awaited knock on the door 
came. Without a care as to who it may have been, Man- 
shoon whispered, "Enter, Fzoul." 

Cloaked in dark robes, the High Priest of Bane stalked into 
the audience hall of the Tower High, shaking the rain from his 
garments ivith disgust. As his hood fell away, the look of ani 
mosity revealed on the priest's face could have struck dead the 
most ancient of dragons. The effort was toasted on Manshoon. 

"I'm so pleased you could pull yourself from your meditation 
this evening, Lord Fzoul," Manshoon said coldly. "As always, it 
is a pleasure to share your company." 

"Spare me your worthless prattle, Manshoon," snapped the 
priest. "'Tis a wet and cold night throughout the Keep, and I 
prefer the damp air and unwashed masses next to your compa 
ny. Whatever reason you have for calling me here, it had best 
be a good one or my lord Bane shall look with ill favor upon 
you!" 

"As cordial as ever, eh my friend?" replied Manshoon as he 
walked over to a cabinet and pulled forth a dusty bottle. "Can I 
interest you in some fire wine from Mulhorand? 'Tis truly a fine 
vintage." Fzoul shook his head in visible anger as the wizard 
poured the thick, black wine into a golden goblet. Smirking at the 
thought of poisoning the follower of Bane, the mage took the 
drink and returned to his comfortable chair. Taking another sip 
of the spicy wine, Manshoon, lost in thought, stared into the 
goblet for several moments before turning again to the wicked 
priest, 

"We have never been on pleasant terms, Fzoul," Manshoon 
began, "and I did not call you here to become your trusted 
friend. The reason I summoned you is that I wish to enter into a 
partnership, as it were, with you and some of your followers." 

Were Fzoul a lesser man, he might have burst into laughter. 
"In the name of Bane," hissed the priest, "what in the Realms 
would make me want to join you in any venture?" 

"Power, my dear Fzoul, power! It is my intention to form a 
network of spies and assassins, more vast and powerful than 
anything you or the petty lords ofZhentil Keep presently have, 
controlled by those loyal to my Inner Circle. This dark network 
will help us dominate trade and communities across the Moonsea 
and beyond. The formation of this organization, which I've 
named the Zhentarim, has already begun. I am offering you a 
place in the cabal's Inner Circle. Consider your answer wisely, 
my friend -the offer will not be repeated." 

The threat was not lost on the priest of Bane, and neither was 
the potential in the mage's offer. The slow sipping of wine was 
the only sound in the room for several minutes as Fzoul studied 
Manshoon intently, as if the consequences of such an alliance 


Manshoon invites Fzoul Chembryl to join the Zhentarim. 

could be divined in the lines on Manshoon's face. After a while 
the priest whispered, "What's in it for me" 

A sinister smile crossed Manshoon's lips so swiftly that Fzoul 
zvas not sure if he had actually seen it through the shadows of the 
room. "I have heard you and the High Imperceptor in Mulmas- 
ter are not on the best of terms lately, my dear Fzoul. Tlze Zhen 
tarim could arrange for a fall from grace for the dear Impercep 
tor among the faithful of the Keep, leaving you sole control of the 
priests of Bane here. And that is only the beginning. With the 
support of the church of Baize, combined with the wizards under 
my control, dominance of the Moonsea would be ours. That is, 
of course, if your all-powerful deity supports you." The lust was 
spoken with more than a hint of sarcasm, and was a insult Fzoul 
would not soon forget. 

Though Fzoul did not trust Manshoon, he was intrigued by 
what the mage had to say. After another moment of thought, 
Fzoul stood and headed for the door. "I must consult my Lord 
before joining your Zhentarim, wizard. I will return tomorrow 
with an answer. May Bane smile upon you, Lord Manshoon." 
Pulling his robes tight, Fzoul Chembryl returned to the Dark 
Shrine, leaving a smiling Manshoon behind. 

With the priest gone, a shadozoy curtain in the rear of the 




33 
















































chamber mowed to the side, and one of Manshoon's apprentices 
stepped forward. "Do you think he'll join?" whispered the dis 
ciple. 

"Of course he will, Sememmon," gloated the mage. "I'm 
offering him control of the church of Bane in Zhentil Keep-an 
offer even Fzoul cannot refuse." 

"But ivhat of Bane, master? The High Imperceptor is said to 
be the voice of the God of Strife on this plane. Would not He 
take offmse at this act?" 

"You misunderstand the God of Strife, underling. Bane will not 
interfere, because Bane thrives on this type of deceit and treachery. 
Fzoul will return tomorrow to pledge his aid to the Zhentarim, arid at 
that time we'll decide how best to use his priests to our advantage. In 
the end, the Zhentarim and I will reign supreme." 

Historians and sages of the Realms (including everyone's 
favorite pipe owner) date the creation of the Zhentarim at 
1270 DR, give or take a year. In truth, the Zhentarim has 
existed in one form or another since Manshoon's inaugura 
tion as a lord of Zhentil Keep in 1261. The Black Network's 
ability to keep itself a secret for nearly a decade lends cre 
dence to its power and influence. 

Manshoon did not build the Zhentarim overnight. 
Many of the wizards who filled the ranks of the Zhentarim 
in its first 30 years were either recruited by Manshoon, 
based on long-standing personal acquaintance, or appren 
tices he taught himself. With the addition of Fzoul Chern- 
bryl and the followers of Bane, the Zhentarim grew by 
leaps and bounds - though Manshoon would be the first 
to deny it. With the higher profile this brought the Zhen 
tarim, others flocked to Manshoon's banner from across 
the Moonsea. It was this increase in the Black Network's 
membership that alerted the rest of the Realms to its exis 
tence. Whether this discovery was part of Manshoon's 
designs or not, only the master of the Zhentarim knows 
for sure. 

The 

ItoKteR CtecLe 

T he Inner Circle of the Zhentarim is comprised of 
Manshoon, Sememmon, and Fzoul Chembryl - each 
the leader of a Zhentarim headquarters. Members of the In 
ner Circle openly work together to better the Black Net 
work and to line the pockets of their faithful agents with 
precious gold. Covertly, however, each member of the Cir 
cle plots the demise of the others and works toward this 
through the use of expendable agents, powerful scrying 
magic, and well-placed coin. 


Of the three, Manshoon and Sememmon have the clos 
est relationship, that of master and student, as Sememmon 
was Manshoon's apprentice once. But even Sememmon 
remembers a time when his master ordered his death as part 
of a test of power for the young wizard. It is difficult to for 
get treachery in the ranks of the Zhentarim. 

Manshoon and Fzoul have a relationship based on 
respect for the power each holds, though each despises the 
other personally. Many times in the past Fzoul has at 
tempted to wipe out all the hidden clones (see Manshoon's 
stasis clone spell in the "New Spells" appendix) and spies of 
the Master of the Zhentarim, and each time he has come up 
short. Manshoon, on the other hand, has attempted to sub 
vert the church of Bane to further his own needs and has 
been thwarted by the high priest at every turn. When they 
join forces and are not trying to undermine each other's 
schemes, Fzoul and Manshoon usually easily obtain what 
they desire. 

The most uneasy alliance among the three is between 
Sememmon and Fzoul. A younger Sememmon was con 
stantly meddling in the affairs of Zhentil Keep, and he 
made an steadfast enemy of administrator Fzoul. Fzoul 
remembers with considerable unhappiness the time that 
Sememmon and he were forced to lead the Zhentilar 
against the Twisted Tower of Ashaba at the order of Bane's 
avatar during the Time of Troubles. However, the Fzoul was 
delighted when Sememmon was given control of Darkhold, 
keeping the ambitious mage far from Zhentil Keep and 
occupied with his own problems (including some created 
by Fzoul). 

Bases of The 
BLack NeTuaoRk 

T he Zhentarim has minor bases and agents pursuing 
field work throughout the Heartlands, but current 
ly it has only three major bases of operation. The first is 
the birthplace of the society, Zhentil Keep. Darkhold, a 
fortress formerly held by Varalla the Lich-Queen, a lich 
of fearful power, is the Black Network's second head 
quarters. It is located in the Far Hills, which are them 
selves nestled between two large arms of the Sunset 
Mountains west of Cormyr. The third and most recently 
established base is at the ancient Citadel of the Raven 
that straddles the Dragonspine Mountains. Each of these 
bases is a major hub for Zhentarim trade, a headquarters 
for Zhentilar troops, and the birthplace and logistical 
nucleus of many of the diabolic plots of the Zhentarim's 
Inner Circle. 




34 














Zhentil Keep, Darkhold, and the Citadel of the Raven 
are linked by powerful gates used exclusively by the Inner 
Circle. Two of these magical gates were created by Man- 
shoon and Sememmon, based on a hidden gate found after 
the conquest of the Citadel of the Raven. It is uncertain 
whether Manshoon's duplication of the gate was sheer luck 
or a true inkling of his power. (He would assert that it was 
the latter, of course.) The gates provide a convenient 
means of transport - and escape -for members of the 
Inner Circle. 

ZbewDI Keep 

S With the taking of Darkhold and the 
recent realignment of Zhentarim 
^ resources to the Citadel of the Raven, 
Zhentarim activity at Zhentil Keep 
has dropped off from that of previous 
years. The Zhentarim of Zhentil Keep 
are dominated by the church of Bane 
(or Cyric depending on the time frame), the naug-orls 
(thieves, spies, and assassins who work for the ruling 
lords), the naug-adar (minor Zhentarim mages who serve 
as spies on the populace), merchants and caravan masters, 
and a contingent of warriors who work within the Zhenti- 
lar. All Zhentarim members of the church owe their loyal 
ty to Fzoul Chembryl (LE hm C16), a member of the Net 
work's Inner Circle, while the remainder of the Zhen- 
tarim's loyalties are split between the corrupt priest and 
Manshoon. 

Zhentil Keep is also the hub of Zhentarim trade in the 
Heartlands. Though some trade activity has strayed to the 
other two citadels in recent years, the merchants of Zhen 
til Keep remain the shrewdest in the Heartlands. Despite 
the efforts of groups like the Harpers and the Purple 
Dragons, the Zhentarim is still pursuing control of all 
trade in the Heartlands and elsewhere, whether licit (ore 
from the Dragonspine Mountains) or illicit (poisons and 
slaves). 

Conquest of the Moonsea area is also high on the list of 
Zhentarim goals. Since Zhentil Keep possesses the largest 
and most experienced troops, the Zhentarim uses the 
Zhentilar forces of the Keep to punish enemies and weak 
en rivals, then move its own into key positions within the 
communities. The Zhentarim also makes considerable use 
of nonhuman tribes and mercenaries, with a sizable con 
tingent stationed at Zhentil Keep. General Vrakk, veteran 
of the Horde Campaign, is the commander of the Keep's 
largest force of nonhuman troops, and a member or the 
Zhentarim as well. 



Sememmon studies in his private library in Darkhold. 


Ddrzkhold 

v Conquered by the Zhentarim in 1312 

DR, Darkhold is presided over by the 
mage Sememmon (LE hm M115), a for- 
r |A mer apprentice of Manshoon. The 
1 1 lilcontingent of Zhentarim at Darkhold 
is over 1,000 strong, and all except 
</(w \I I I slaves and prisoners who dwell there 

\ y \ are members of the Black Network. 

' \ Since Darkhold is located a significant 

distance from the other two Zhentarim strongholds in the 
Moonsea, it is a base for only the elite and most trusted (if 
that can be said of any Zhentarim). 

Darkhold itself is a high-spired keep of black stone that 
sweeps up from a worn volcanic plug in midst of Darkhold 
Vale, a small valley in the highest of the Far Hills that is 
surrounded on all sides but the west by steep cliffs. (The 
castle is described in detail in the 2nd edition AD&D(r) 
game Castles boxed set.) Seized from the lich-queen Varal- 
la, Darkhold now rivals the Citadel of the Raven in the 
size of its forces and Zhentil Keep in ambient treachery. 





35 































































ZheMtaR) m Tactics 
aT Da nkhold 


O ne of the favorite tactics of the Zhentarim is to sabotage 
trade by strategically importing monsters to release along 
competitors' trade routes. This tactic is most widely used in the 
areas around Darkhold and eastern Cormyr. The Black Network 
transport entire tribes of goblins, kobolds, ores, and ogres to the 
desired region, supplying them with weapons and sometimes 
even magical items. The Zhentarim also makes pacts with 
numerous beholders and dragons to inflict destruction in areas 
where simple goblinkin are not enough. 

One of the most recent tactics used to threaten competitors' 
trade routes is for wyvern riders out of Darkhold to fly into 
enemy territory and deposit deepspawn monsters on rival trade 
routes. These deepspawn wreak utter havoc with trade caravans 
from Cormyr and to Waterdeep. The deepspawn are bred with 
in the dungeons of Darkhold, and the wyvern-drop tactic was 
created by none other than Manshoon of the Zhentarim. 


Darkhold's public stance is that it serves to protect the 
Far Hills, harbor trade caravans (Zhentarim only), and 
facilitate diplomatic relations between the Inner Sea and 
the Sword Coast. Secretly, Darkhold is a home to magical 
research and experiments, a slaver refuge and power base, 
a headquarters for raiders into Cormyr and the Sword 
Coast, and a prison for the enemies of the Zhentarim. 
Zhent trade caravans from Baldur's Gate, Mirabar, and 
Calimshan make regular stops at Darkhold to acquire pro 
tective guards and magic, gather supplies, and report to 
superiors before returning to Zhentil Keep. The castle is 
also a staging area for the Zhentarim to spread its influ 
ence in villages between the Far Hills and the Sea of 
Swords. 

Manshoon's conquest of Darkhold was also initiated to 
halt the westward spread of Cormyr's sphere of influence. 
Should the forces of Azoun be allowed to support the 
Western Heartlands to a greater degree, Zhentarim activi 
ties based in Darkhold would be hindered in a similar man 
ner to the way Zhentil Keep suffers constant setbacks due 
to the actions of Shadowdale's residents and affiliates. 
With a firm hand on Darkhold, the Zhentarim works to 
expand and control trade to the west and harass Cormyr 
with bandit raids and other activities to the east to keep 
Cormyrean influence weak. The Cormytes are so preoccu 
pied by Zhent activities out of Darkhold that they cannot 
aid the smaller communities of the Western Heartlands, 
which are one by one falling under the sway of the Black 
Network. 


OTade l of the Ravew 

The Citadel of the Raven is a chain 
of interconnected fortresses that 
straddles the Dragonspine Moun 
tains. It fell under Zhentarim con 
trol in 1355 DR due to a cleverly 
orchestrated act of Zhent treachery 
(see "The History of Zhentil Keep" chapter). The origins of 
the Citadel are shrouded in mystery and conjecture, and it 
was nothing by crumbling walls and towers inhabited spo 
radically by bands of bandits until the cities of the Moon- 
sea, including Zhentil Keep, rebuilt and manned the 
fortress in the Year of the Crumbling Keep (1276 DR) to 
repel invasions from The Ride and Thar. Through bribery, 
continued strengthening of the Zhentilar component of the 
multilateral forces occupying the Citadel, and finally out 
right treachery, Zhentil Keep gained complete control of 
the Citadel. To this day, many political prisoners, represen 
tatives from other Moonsea cities present during the 
takeover, still linger in the Citadel's darkest dungeons, far 
from the light of day. 

Like Darkhold, the Citadel of the Raven benefits from 
strong defenses without the worry (and dangers) of a civil 
ian population. The Citadel is controlled by a force of 
2,000 soldiers, most of whom are Zhentilar, led by the 
strong arm of Lord Kandar Milinal (LE hm F10). In times 
of war, the Citadel has room to house an additional 7,000 
troops. 

Though it can be said there are many members of the 
Zhentarim among the soldiers (namely Lord Kandar), the 
overall number of Zhentarim here is low despite the pres 
ence of Manshoon (LE hm M19), who finished moving 
his base of operations to the Citadel before the events of 
the Cyrinishad debacle. Many low-level wizards and assas 
sins call the Citadel their home, as do wintering merce 
nary companies hired by Manshoon. All occupants of the 
Citadel have some type of Zhentish background. 
Imposters are eventually found out and summarily dealt 
with. 

Manshoon has no outward designs that he has made 
public for the Zhentarim of the Citadel of the Raven, but 
few know what lurks within his devious mind. Many of 
the Zhentarim's schemes and designs originate at the 
Citadel, and both Sememmon and Fzoul visit here several 
times during the course of a year. Should the Black Net 
work ever be forced from Darkhold or Zhentil Keep, the 
Citadel of the Raven can reluctantly absorb masses of 
Zhentarim. 












Opposition 

T he list of Zhentarim enemies is vast. If one were to 
count all the individuals who call the Zhentarim their 
foe, it would be greater than the population of Waterdeep. 
The list of Zhentarim adversaries is not limited to the catalog 
below, and the DM is encouraged to add other individuals and 
power groups to the list. 

Cult of the Dragon: The Cult of 
the Dragon was founded by a powerful 
wizard named Sammaster (who is said 
to have been favored by the gods with 
power akin to Elminster's) on an 
unknown date previous to 900 DR. 
Sages relate that Sammaster's mind could not handle the 
"touch of the gods," and his insanity led him to believe that 
one day dead dragons would rule the world. The Cult reveres 
evil dragons in general, and when possible it reanimates them 
(especially the older and more powerful ones) as dracoliches. 
The Cult acts as an intelligence network for its undead draco- 
lich masters, brings treasure and powerful magic to their lairs, 
and encourages the transformation of all evil dragons into 
dracoliches. 

The first contact between a Zhent (since the Zhentarim 
was to be created years later) and the Cult of the Dragon was 
in the Year of Dracorage, 1018 DR, when Zhentil Keep was 
assaulted by a great flight of dragons. The reason for the 
attack is not specifically known, but it was probably intend 
ed to strip Zhentil Keep of its riches and transport them to 
dracolich hoards. Over the next 350 years, the Cult has exe 
cuted both frontal assaults using dragons and sneak attacks 
on Zhentarim strongholds, and more recently has begun 
striking at trade caravans in an attempt to procure Zhentish 
riches. (The Cult is the prime suspect in a caravan that dis 
appeared on its way to Glister, though it is commonly 
thought barbarians of The Ride were responsible.) Major 
Zhentarim caravans are now equipped with potions of dragon 
control and other similar protections from the unbalanced 


# 

<T~v-V 



The Harpers: Based in the Heart 
lands, the Harpers form a semisecret 
organization of primarily good groups of 
adventurers who receive support from 
goodly churches, druidic circles, and 
powerful neutral individuals with whom 
they share a common foe, such as the 
Zhentarim. The Harpers work for work for the good of humankind and 
other sentient races, and believe in a rigid balance between 
civilization and surrounding wilderness. The organization 
often operates in secret, using individuals or small groups of 


adventurers to accomplish its goals. Those Who Harp have 
no permanent base of operations, save perhaps Twilight Hall 
in Berdusk. 

The Harpers first learned of the Zhentarim in the spring 
of the Year of the Moat (1269 DR), when Vangerdahast of 
Connyr passed on an intelligence report on Zhentil Keep to 
Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun. Over the next hundred 
years. Harpers and Zhentarim would sometimes literally kill 
one another on sight. In the early years conflict between the 
two groups, the Harpers could not push back all Zhentarim 
activity in the Heartlands due to casualties suffered in the 
Harpstars War. Eventually, strength in numbers returned to 
the ranks of the Harpers, but by this time Zhentarim power 
and influence had grown to a level that the Harpers could 
not completely eliminate. Aided by the forces of Shadow- 
dale, which is considered a Harper stronghold by all Zhents, 
the Harpers are probably the most formidable of Zhentarim 
enemies. 


High Imperceptor of Bane: Once 
the mortal head of the church of Bane 
j across the Realms, who dictated church 
doctrine and policy from the Black 
Lord's Altar in Mulmaster, the High 
Imperceptor of Bane lives in exile in a 
location unknown to the Zhents. (He's 
hiding in Mulmaster.) The Banedeath, the subsequent perse 
cution of Banites by Cyricists all over Faerun, and finally the 
issuance of a summons by the church of Cyric in Zhentil Keep 


The M )iz 

R esisting the domination of the Zhentarim in the Tunlands 
around the Marsh of Tun is a group of seminomadic horse 
men who call themselves the Mir. These horsemen fight both the 
forces of Darkhold and the Purple Dragons of Cormyr for the con 
trol of the surrounding territory. 

The Mir are led by a savage horseman with the hereditary title 
of "tralmir," Tralmir Numac (CN hm F14). Numac is unmatched 
in battle, and surrounds himself with dozens of skilled warriors 
(CN hm F4-F7). The Mir have a secret base on the northern 
edge of the Marsh of Tim, where their women and children are 
secluded. The Mir are hunters and scavengers, living off the land 
and stealing from Zhent caravans that travel the northern trade 
routes. 

Making friends with the Mir is a difficult tiling, as they seldom 
trust outsiders since the time a group of Zhentarim spies infiltrat 
ed their tribe and killed many of their women. Those who are 
accepted into the tribe are expected to give a blood oath of loyal 
ty to the tralmir and defend the lands of the Mir to the death. 


37 
















for the Imperceptor to appear before its inquisitors in the Year 
of the Wave (1364 DR) forced the High Imperceptor into 
hiding. This does not mean he has been forgotten by the 
faithful or has decided to retire. The passion the Imperceptor 
has for his beliefs is still strong. 

Despite his fugitive status, the High Imperceptor (who 
gave up the use of his earthly name when he took on the 
mantle of High Imperceptor) still holds power and influence, 
though it is restricted to the Moonsea area where orthodox 
Banites who refused to accept Cyric live in hiding. Over the 
years the Imperceptor has had several spies watching the 
activities of Manshoon and Fzoul, but his clerical support was 
significantly diminished after the Banedeath. Many of these 
spies have since been discovered and put to death, while oth 
ers less devoted have seen who holds the true power -and 
have changed sides. 

The Zhentarim's price on the head of the Imperceptor 
has risen to 10,000 gold pieces his failure to answer the sum 
mons of the church of Cyric. With the destruction of Zhen- 
til Keep in the Year of the Banner (1368 DR), the High 
Imperceptor and his influence may once again emerge. The 
Imperceptor still commands an important ally well 
acquainted with Zhentil Keep: Orox the beholder. Orox 
worked with High Inquisitor Ginali on his mission to try 
and bring the church of Bane (controlled by Fzoul) in Zhen 
til Keep back under the wing of the Imperceptor. Orox, who 
fled Zhentil Keep in the wake of the Banedeath, has fol 
lowed the High Imperceptor into seclusion. Orox remains 
an eternal enemy of Zhentil Keep, the Zhentarim, Fzoul 
Chembryl, and (especially) the church of Cyric because of 
the humiliation dealt it in the Banedeath and by Alias of 
the Azure Bonds during its work with Ginali. 

The Iron Throne: Created a 
decade ago by unknown individuals, 
the Iron Throne is a group of private 
merchants who, on the surface, deal at 
face value and honestly. Staying out of 
politics, the Throne is in business to 
simply make money. In the process, it has come into fierce 
competition with the Zhentarim. 

The Iron Throne and the Zhentarim have scuffled many 
times in recent years, and neither side has gained the upper 
hand. Many conflicts have arisen because of trade wars started 
this village or that city, but these an equal number of these 
struggles have been won by both sides. This is unacceptable to 
the Zhentarim, while the Throne considers it the price of 
doing business. Many merchants hard hit by the bottom-line 
policies of the Iron Throne publicly state that the Zhentarim 
are the true lords behind the Iron Throne, since no one, not 
even the Throne's agents, knows its leaders. The Zhents sus 


pect the gold of Cormyr is attempting to beat the Black Net 
work at its own game. 

Knights of Myth Drannor: The Knights of Myth Dran- 
nor were originally a group of childhood friends who longed 
to adventure across the Realms. After several years as success 
ful adventurers, they received a charter from King Azoun IV 
of Cormyr allowing them to bear arms in defense of his king 
dom. It was shortly after this that they first ran afoul of the 
Zhentarim. 

While attempting to gain control of a trade route across 
the Stonelands, a Zhentarim task force was driven back by the 
Knights and suffered a costly defeat. Two of the Black Net 
work's powerful members were killed in the fracas. Shortly 
afterward, the Knights discovered a magical gateway to 
Waterdeep and joined forces with Khelben "Blackstaff" 
Arunsun. Khelben then thwarted the Zhentarim takeover of 
Shadowdale by giving Florin Falconhand, a Knight, the title 
of Lord of Shadowdale by gifting him with the Pendant of 
Ashaba. (For the whole story, see the Shadowdale booklet in 
the revised edition of the Forgotten Realms(r) Campaign 
Setting box.) 

Returning to Shadowdale, the Knights defeated the mem 
bers of the Zhentarim and their drow allies at the Tower of 
Ashaba, and earned the Black Network's eternal enmity. In 
the Year of the Morningstar (1350 DR), the Knights slew the 
beholder ally Xantriph in the Temple in the Sky, and have 
since returned to temporary bases in Shadowdale, Cormyr, 
and elsewhere in Faerun. Though small skirmishes between 
the two groups have occurred since, other matters have kept 
the Black Network out of the Knights' sphere of influence. 
This does not mean, however, that the Knights of Myth 
Drannor have forgotten the forces of Manshoon. 

Knights of the North: The Knights of the North are a 
band of adventurers with a deep hatred of all Zhents (resi 
dents of Zhentil Keep, the Zhentilar, and the Zhentarim). 
Their band is composed of the remains of troops stationed at 
the Citadel of the Raven who were the representatives of 
Moonsea cities other than Zhentil Keep. After the treachery 
of the Zhentarim at the Citadel following an ore attack in the 
Year of the Harp (1355 DR), remnants of the non-Zhent con 
tingent that survived wandered north and east to avoid the 
influence of Zhentil Keep. Here they took the name "Knights 
of the North," and they have since been a thorn in the side of 
Zhentarim trade. 

Initially a band of forty-odd warriors, good-aligned priests, 
and mages, their numbers have dropped to less then 20 over 
the years. The surviving Knights of the North keep them 
selves busy by ambushing Zhentarim caravans and slaying 
envoys of Zhentil Keep who venture north of the Moonsea. 
Cries such as "One for the Raven," or "Justice for another," 
















are common last words heard by Zhents who come across this 
vengeful group. 

The Lords' Alliance: Commonly called the Council of 
Lords or the Lords' Council, the Alliance was formed for com 
mon defense against Luskan, the ore hordes, Calishite-spon- 
sored strife, and the Zhentarim. The Alliance also serves as a 
trade-dispute forum for its members. The Alliance members 
are the lawful and essentially good rulers of the cities of the 
North and the Western Heartlands, including Waterdeep, 
Mirabar, Neverwinter, Silverymoon, Baldur's Gate, Elturel, 
Berdusk, Iriaebor, and Sundabar. 

With the help of Khelben Arunsun, Alliance agents have 
successfully coordinated military operations to counter Zhen 
tarim attempts at annexation of an exclusive overland trade 
route to the North and the Sword Coast. They stand firm 
against the encroachment of the Black Network, but are less 
cohesive in other matters. Manshoon hopes to use such differ 
ing attitudes toward trade, magic, and the treatment of non 
humans to break the Alliance, but to date he has failed. 

The agents of the Lords' Alliance are varied, and usually 
swear loyalty first to one particular lord, and then to the 
Alliance. There are a number of adventuring companies and 
paladins who strike against the Zhentarim "in the name of the 
Lords' Alliance." 

The Purple Dragons: Commanded 
by the lord high marshal of the King 
dom of Cormyr, the Purple Dragons are 
King Azoun's elite military forces. It is 
quite an honor to serve under the ban 
ner of the Dragons, and their reputation 
as a superior fighting force nearly out 
weighs their ability. 

The Zhentarim's primary confrontations with the Purple 
Dragons are indirect. Most often the two meet when Zhen 
tarim are working behind the scenes to support their (often 
secret) allies. However, predominantly in the Goblin 
Marches, the Stonelands, and the Tunlands, the Black Net 
work actively engages the forces of Connyr whether there is 
direct profit in it or not. The Zhentarim wishes to prevent 
Cormyr from expanding its sphere of influence beyond the 
Storm Horn Mountains, and harassing Purple Dragon 
patrols or missions keeps Azoun busy in the lowlands 
between the Storm Horns and the Sunset Mountains so that 
he cannot aid communities in the Western Heartlands. In 
addition, the well-disciplined and alert Purple Dragon forces 
of Azoun are a perpetual thorn in the side of Zhentarim 
smuggling operations in the Heartlands, so anything that 
can be done to even the score when the Purple Dragons are 
not on their home turf is a good thing, as far as Manshoon is 
concerned. 




The Red Plumes: The Red Plumes 
of Hillsfar are a large mercenary force 
owing allegiance to, and under the iron 
control of, the wizard Maalthiir. Within 
Hillsfar itself, the Red Plumes serve as a 
militia. The Red Plumes and the Zhen 
tarim are two fingers on the same hand: 
Both groups are led by an evil wizard, both use large contin 
gents of soldiers to occupy and subdue communities, and both 
vie for control of Moonsea cities. The only difference 
between the two organizations is the Red Plumes primarily 
use armies and overt conquest while the Zhentarim usually 
first tries intrigue, collusion, and conspiracy (although the 
Zhentilar have made more than one appearance over the 
years). 

Since the Year of the Harp (1355 DR), the Red Plumes 
and the Zhentilar have been embroiled in a civil war in 
Yulash. Both the Red Plumes and the Zhentarim ultimately 
want complete control over Yulash. (They will never admit 
that outright to the Yulashi, though.) Each supports a differ 
ent faction in the conflict. Because the forces of Zhentil Keep 
are spread throughout the Realms, the Zhentilar presence in 
Yulash is sometimes inferior to that of the Red Plumes. Con 
sequently, Zhentarim agents work to more deviously under 
mine the Plumes by cutting off their supply lines or smuggling 
food and weapons to Zhentarim sympathizers. 

The Zhentarim enjoys the popular support of the Purge 
Yulash faction, composed mainly of the remaining living 
original Yulashis. The Purge Yulash faction supports the 
Zhents because, although Zhent rule of Yulash was cruel and 
harsh, Zhentish actions did not destroy the Yulashis 1 
beloved city. Zhentarim agents are also working to recruit 
remaining members of the thieves' guild. Maalthiir, howev 
er, did not come to power by being a fool, and he constantly 
works to undermine the forces of his rival Manshoon by 
recruiting Yulashi spies and developing his own supporting 
faction in the citizenry. 

Red Wizards of Thay: The Red 

Wizards are the rulers of Thay, and the 
powerful ruling zulkirs of that land are 
chosen from among their numbers. Red 
Wizards can be found throughout the 
Realms as spies and agents of their king 
dom. Their actions are supposedly for 
the good of their own government, but each Red Wizard has 
his or her own secret agenda. 

On the whole, the Zhentarim and the Red Wizards count 
roughly equal numbers of wizards within their ranks. Red 
Wizards, on an average, are superior in ability to Zhentarim 
mages, while the Zhentarim have a larger and more diverse 








39 














support network of priests and soldiers to draw upon. The 
Zhentarim also may act on a large scale without being coun 
tered by the government in its "home" city of Zhentil Keep, as 
it essentially runs the Council of Lords as a puppet govern 
ment. If Manshoon wishes to send an army of Zhentilar 
against Melvaunt, in a short time the army leaves. If one Red 
Wizard wishes to muster troops and march an army across 
Thay, many zulkirs will raise potent objections, and they have 
the magical might to put teeth into their words. Because they 
fear one among their number gaining too much power over 
the others, such large mobilizations are difficult to get away 
with without a coalition of Red Wizards at least tacitly work 
ing together. 

The Red Wizards and the Black Network have clashed 
on several occasions, each having found spies among the 
other's ranks. There have also been a few notable instances 
when Zhentarim traders have attempted to infiltrate the 
Thayan slave trade and were discovered. The Red Wizards 
have also been known to support the High Imperceptor of 
Bane and Mulmaster, adding to the enmity between the 
two organizations. One day the influence of the Zhentarim 
may geographically clash with the Red Wizards, but until 
that time the two groups warily eye each other and remain 
alert for signs in their own domains of each other's 
schemes. 


Allies 


Z hentarim enemies outnumber Zhentarim allies by a sub 
stantial amount. However, the Zhentarim have picked 
their allies primarily for the key locations they control or are 
active in, and with a general inclination toward their allies 
having the ability to work covertly. The list of Zhentarim 
allies is always changing, as the Black Network changes the 
direction that its goals lie in. 

Beholders: Ever since Manshoon's 
first mutually profitable alliance with 
the beholder Xantriph, the Zhentarim 
and the eye tyrants have worked to 
gether to further their own needs. 
Though some beholders oppose the 
Black Network through secretly dissi 
dent lords of Zhentil Keep, the eye tyrants' most common 
alliance is with the Zhentarim and the Inner Circle. 

The actual number of beholders allied with the Zhen 
tarim is unknown; however, a few are publicly known to be 
staunch allies of the Black Network. Xantriph, the Voice of 
Bane at the Temple in the Sky and the first of the Zhen 
tarim's beholder allies, was killed by the Knights of Myth 
Drannor in the Year of the Morningstar (1350 DR). It was 



summarily replaced with a less able beholder named Xulla. 
Soon afterward, Manshoon allied himself to another 
beholder, Manxam, who eventually ended up securing 
Zhent rule of Teshwave. 

Other Zhentarim-allied beholders can be found in the 
Stonelands, Greypeak Mountains, Dekanter, and, of course, 
the three major Zhentarim bases. Each beholder has its own 
agenda, and its alliance with the Network could end at any 
moment to further its own needs. 

The Bloodswords: This group of mercenaries originally 
from Amn patrols and skirmishes with Cormyrean patrols 
west (and sotnetimes east) of Eagle Peak and north of the 
Bridge of Fallen Men. The Bloodswords work to keep non- 
Zhent caravans and explorers out of the area, making excep 
tions only for certain traders from Amn. The Bloodswords 
have opened up exclusive Zhentarim trading with portions 
of the Empires of the Sands via secret trails guarded by 
Zhentilar troops. The Bloodswords are paid well for their 
services, and they are allowed to keep any booty they find 
among their victims. 



The Drow: The dark elves of the 
Underdark, some even from Menzo- 
berranzan itself, have been using 
subterranean passages near Shadow- 
dale to come to the surface and trade 
quietly with the Zhentarim for nearly a 
century. The two major accesses to the 
surface for the drow are in the dungeons of the Tower of 
Ashaba and beneath Shadowdale's Old Skull Inn via a sub 
terranean lake. Through both of these passages the Black 
Network has been trading weapons, slaves, and any other 
surface items that interest the dark elves. The drow should be 
considered primarily to be business partners, rather than mil 
itary allies -though there is no proof that they would not aid 
the Zhentarim leaders should they ask (or if drow and Zhen 
tarim needs coincide). 

In the Year of the Worm (1356 DR), the Knights of Myth 
Drannor closed the underground passage at the Tower of 
Ashaba and killed many drow traders. Five years later, the 
drow agreed to once again open up relations with the Black 
Network. (Few other surface dwellers in the Heartlands 
region trade human slaves with them.) The drow have dis 
covered another passage to the surface, this one closer to 
Zhentil Keep. However, this entry to the Underdark is 
located in the eastern Dragonspine Mountains, on the edge 
of Thar. Zhentarim caravans laden with slaves headed for 
this cave passage are usually accompanied by a large contin 
gent of Zhentilar troops to protect against the goblinkin of 
Thar, as well as the untrusting (and sometimes untrustwor 
thy) drow. 




40 














A Zhentarim mage confers with some of Manshoon's beholder allies. 


Harondalbar the Black Dragon: Since he nests high 
in the southwestern peaks of Yellow Snake Pass, this great 
black wyrm's mere presence helps to guard the pass, though 
Harondalbar seldom leaves his lair. Zhentarim feed the drag 
on, praise him (boosting his ego), and bring him both trea 
sure and sport in the form of creatures to hunt (such as 
slaves, helpless competitors, or Zhents sentenced to death). 
The "keeper" of the dragon is an enthusiastic Zhent 
enchanter named Faren Starlight (LE hf W(E)5), with 
whom Harondalbar is slightly enamored. Harondalbar is 
supposed to prevent all but Zhentarim caravans and forces 
from using the pass, but Faren must sometimes resort to illu 
sions and trickery to make the dragon's presence known 
when he refuses to budge from his hoard. Should a major 
conflict come to Yellow Snake Pass, Faren is to coax the 
dragon from its lair at all costs. 

The Cult of the Dragon has also taken an interest in the 
great black wyrm, and Zhentarim agents must occasionally 
battle with cultists attempting to climb into the caves, bear 
ing offerings and promises of power should the dragon come 
with them. Harondalbar is well aware of the Cult, but has no 
wish to become a dracolich at this time. 


ZhewTaRlm AgewTs 
&K)b Activities 

T he Zhentarim has many agents and many ambitions. 

What follows is a brief listing of its plots, schemes, and 
forces throughout the Realms. This listing is not a rehash of 
the players in the grand strategic goal to dominate all trade 
from Waterdeep to the Inner Sea, but a summary of the tac 
tical moves needed to accomplish that goal. Specifically, it 
enumerates the aims of Zhentarim agents in towns, villages, 
and other locations throughout the Realms. Even though 
this list is long, it hardly reveals all the Zhentarim agents 
that could be running around the Heartlands. Agents in 
Cormyr and Sembia are buried particularly deep, a lesson 
learned from the hard experience of watching Zhentarim 
agents publicly dismembered. DMs should not hesitate to 
create new Zhentarim agents and new Zhentarim plans for 
their own campaigns. 

Anauroch: For the past 20 years the Zhentarim has been 
trying to establish a trade route across the Anauroch desert, 
and its efforts have met with limited success. Hundreds of 




































Zhentilar troops are scattered across the Sword (a lower sec 
tion of the Anauroch), supporting the Black Robes (the name 
for the Zhentarim in Anauroch). Zhentarim agents have 
been creating oases with the help of decanters of endless water, 
in an effort to secure a route across the desert toward the 
Greycloak Hills or the Greypeak Mountains, then on to 
Waterdeep and other Sword Coast cities. The Zhentarim's 
biggest obstacles to securing this trade route are a harsh envi 
ronment, restless natives, and confrontations with the mind 
controlling powers of the phaerimm (sinister beings who live 
in the Anaurian Underdark). 

Archenbridge: A small Zhentarim outpost is concealed 
in this town under the guise of the Fairwater Coster. Like 
many other merchant fronts maintained by the Zhentarim, 
the Fairwater Coster deliberately sells some goods at a loss to 
destroy the competition. Their goal is to increase the depen 
dency of the Dales on Zhentish merchandise. 

Asbravn: Agents here operate very cautiously and quiet 
ly, since the Red Cloaks of the town are a dangerous threat. 
Zhent mercenaries and humanoid bands operating out of 
Darkhold have harried the surrounding lands. Agents in 
town report on the movements of the Red Cloaks and the 
activities of known Harpers, search the catacombs of 
Urdrath for treasures to aid their cause, and have been try 



ing to undermine one of the Network's stalwart foes, the 
local priest of Ilmater. 

Ashabenford: Because it is located so close to the bor 
ders of Zhentil Keep, Ashabenford is home to many active 
Zhentarim agents. Most operate from a branch of the Fair- 
water Coster that ships goods from here to Archenbridge. 
However, other Zhentarim, unknown to each other, are 
also hidden throughout the town. It is their goal to bring 
this Dale under Zhent protection, preferably without vio 
lence. Controlling access through Ashabenford would 
enable the Zhentarim to close the main Cormyr-Hillsfar 
trade route. 

Berdusk: Working close to the heart of the Harpers is a 
small band of Zhentarim agents. These followers are deeply 
concealed throughout the community. Most Zhentarim 
activity (unknown to the rest of the town) is centered on 
the Green Heath Caravan Society, a respectable merchant 
coster that serves the Zhents as a front. Zhentish goods are 
passed through the town under its auspices. The master, 
Dhroul Kammet, is not a Zhentarim himself, but profits from 
his association with the Black Network. Although his cara 
vans are sometimes raided to divert suspicion, profits from 
his "stolen" goods make their way back to him. Nonetheless, 
the Dhroul is very cautious, and he only allows Zhentarim 
agents brief stays, lest his connection be discovered by the 
pestiferous Harpers. 

Bhaerlith: This secret oasis in Anauroch is one of the 
major stopovers for Zhent caravans crossing the desert. It is 
a manufactured, rather than naturally occurring, oasis and is 
manned by a Zhentilar garrison supported by a team of 
Zhentarim mages. 

Blackfeather Bridge: A secret temple to Cyric serves as 
the base for Zhentarim activity in this area. If the Zhentarim 
can eventually dominate this community, the Black Net 
work will control the main overland trade route from Sem- 
bia to Hillsfar. 

Border Forest: Zhentilar troops from Zhentil Keep and 
the Citadel of the Raven have undertaken extensive lum 
bering out of Snowmantle into this forest. A number of 
druidic groups and intelligent forest creatures have moved 
into the area to oppose the forest's destruction. Zhentarim 
traders move a portion of the lumber back to Zhentil Keep, 
an allotment travels to Darkhold for distribution west, and 
the remainder is traded to the tribes of Anauroch. 

Citadel of the Raven: The state purpose of the Zhen 
tarim at the Citadel is to oppose savages from The Ride and 
goblinkin from Thar. A large number of Zhentarim actually 
here work to support the Zhent attempt to establish a secret 
trade route through the Anauroch desert. Such a route 
would expand the territory in which the Zhentarim trade, 



































































































undercut the competition (which has to take a longer route 
down around the Storm Homs and the Thunder Peaks to go 
west) in speed of delivery, and add to the Black Network's 
power base. 

Corm Orp: This little village is one of the main targets 
of Zhentarim activity. Agents and raiders from Darkhold 
are doing their best to bring it under their sway, since con 
trol of the village will secure another link in the trade 
chain. Their plans are near success, for the local lord, belea 
guered by the constant threat, is seeking aid from Hill's 
Edge. He does not realize that any troops sent from there 
are certain to be Zhentarim mercenaries. 

Dagger Falls: Daggerdale is ostensibly a protectorate of 
Zhentil Keep, but the constable of Dagger Falls is caught in 
a guerrilla war against the "outlaw" Randal Morn. The 
countryside is barely under Zhent control. Still, the Dale 
provides relatively safe haven for openly avowed Zhen 
tarim, and Zhent caravans can pass in near-perfect safety 
through the valley. Currently, mercenary adventurers are 
encouraged to collect the sizable reward placed on Randal 
Mom's head. 

Darkhold: This is one of the three main bases of the 
Zhentarim and is committed to gaining control over the 
crucial passes and trails that connect Cormyr and the 
Sword Coast. More detail about Darkhold can be found in 
the revised Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting, the 
Castles boxed set, and earlier in this chapter. 

Dekanter: This dark ruin is the lair of a sinister 
beholder. The Zhentarim has formed an alliance with the 
creature and its gnoll minions. In exchange for certain 
items and prisoners, the beholder secures the pass through 
the Greypeak Mountains, allowing access only to Zhent 
caravans. 

Dragonspear Castle: Zhentarim plans are in the works 
to take over and rebuild the ruins of this castle, which was 
originally built only a hundred years ago by Daeros Dragon 
spear. It would add a fourth citadel to the Zhentarim power 
base, and secure the Black Network's trade route west. Cler 
ics of Tempus have built a small shrine within the ruined 
castle walls and are kept busy by scores of undead, ores, 
ogres, and other goblinkin who roam the region. These 
clerics would provide some resistance to a concerted Zhen 
tarim attack, but would not likely prove to be strong 
enough to hold the ruins. 

Drawn Swords: This small village is a thorn in the side 
of Zhentarim plans. It sits astride the Network's trade route 
and has resolutely resisted Zhentarim domination. Cur 
rently the town is protected by Harpers, but Zhentarim 
agents are working to undermine local support. Success is 
likely, since there is more and more grumbling from mer- 


Sssssa 


chants about profits lost in pointless hostility toward Zhent 
caravans. 

Easting: As a key junction on the Cormyte trade route 
following the High Road, Easting has naturally acquired a 
few Zhentarim agents. As in many Zhentarim operations, 
these agents work behind the front of a trading company - 
in this case, the Hrulurgain Brothers. The Zhentarim's goal 
here is to drive out the competition by fair means and foul. 
Price wars and mysterious accidents are common events in 
Easting. 

One ambitious Zhentarim, Thyyrspyrl Vangradd, has 
another plan in motion. Funded by Darkhold, his agents 
have been working to buy every inn and resthouse in the 
town. Once the Zhentarim owns all the services in Easting, 
it will be able to grant or deny aid to caravans at will. 

The Flaming Tower: This Zhentarim base is in the 
final stages of being rebuilt following its destruction by the 
Knights of Myth Drannor in the Year of the Morningstar 
(1350 DR). The Black Network is already using it as a sig 
nal base for the Citadel of the Raven, to warn it of 
approaching forces, and as a Zhentilar guardpost for the 
Temple in the Sky (see below). Forty seasoned Zhentilar 
warriors (36 LE hm F5, 3 LE hm F7,1 LE hm F9) and five 
fire giants staff the Flaming Tower, and 35 extra Zhentilar 
warriors (LE hm F4), four magelings (LE hm M4), and 


The Blood Aye Sm Ashens 

T he Blood Axe Smashers are a Zhentilar patrol operating 
out of Darkhold and consisting of evil humanoids. The 
patrol is lead by a powerful scro (an ore from wildspace) 
named Thergod (LE scrom F7; Str 18/33, Con 18) who 
threw his lot in with the Zhentarim when his spelljammer 
crashed near Darkhold in the Year of the Harp. Thergod leads 
a patrol of 16 ogres and three hill giants, and he has never 
been defeated in battle. He is specialized in the broad sword 
and uses a broad sword +2. He usually wears plate mail +2 and 
a shield on patrol. 

Although Thergod is rather ugly and ill-mannered, his men 
rally to him (Cha 8, but effectively Cha 15 to his troops). The 
diabolical scro possesses a keen tactical sense and is a master of 
the ambush. The Smashers have adopted as their banner a large 
skull on a purple field. The arrangement of the skull on the ban 
ner and its coloration is a direct insult to the Purple Dragons of 
Cormyr. 

Out of all the forces of Darkhold, Thergod and the Blood Axe 
Smashers are the most successful -especially against the Purple 
Dragons. A reward of 2,000 gold pieces or a commission in the 
Purple Dragons from King Azoun IV awaits the person or persons 
who rid the Realms of the Blood Axe Smashers. 


" - ^ 


43 















three priests (LE hm C3) are helping temporarily in the here, many of the toW n militia and merchants 
are Zhen- 
work to restore the Tower. tarim sympathizers. 


Goblin Marches: This area is a major caravan route for 
the Black Network. The Zhentarim deals with local 
humanoid problems by rotating between paying off local 
goblinkin, hiring them for bandit raids, or wiping them out. 
The methods chosen depends on which Zhentarim military 
leader is currently in charge of the region and whether the 
humanoid leaders of different local groups can be con 
trolled (or if the groups even have leaders). Direction for 
activities within the Marches comes from Darkhold or Dag 
ger Falls. The Zhentarim is backing its power in the Goblin 
Marches by importing monsters to harass Cormyrean 
knights. More Zhentilar troops have been moving into the 
Marches lately as part of a strong push for the Zhents to 
complete a western trade route. 

Greypeak Mountains: The pass toward Llorkh 
through these mountains, called Dawn Pass, is guarded by a 
Zhentarim ally -a beholder and his gnoll minions from 
nearby Dekanter. The beholder is wild and near uncontrol 
lable, but honors its deal with the Zhentarim since the 
agreement suits its present needs (and because the Zhents 
pay extremely well). 

Hardbuckler: This little gnome village is quietly 
becoming an advance base for the Zhentarim without the 
gnomes even realizing it. The short folk have a policy of 
warehousing stores, no questions asked, and the Zhen 
tarim is exploiting that to build a sizable cache of supplies 
and weapons. When all is ready, a Zhentarim force from 
Darkhold will filter into the town and seize it with the 
weapons already stockpiled there. Control of Hardbuckler 
will give the Zhentarim another leg on its southern trade 
route to Waterdeep (the northern route being through 
Anauroch). 

Harrowdale: Operating under the guise of a shipping 
company out of Impiltur, Zhentarim here are trying to 
undermine any growth of Harrowdale's small port. The 
Black Network sees a strong port here as unwanted compe 
tition for Scardale, which they already hold, and Yhaunn, 
where Zhentarim influence is strong. 

Highmoon: Zhentarim agents of the Fairwater Coster 
are present in this town. They watch for (non-Zhent) cara 
vans passing through Thunder Gap and pass that in 
formation on to several Zhentarim-allied bandit strong 
holds in the southern Thunder Peaks. 

Hill's Edge: This town, close to Darkhold, is well on 
its way to becoming another major base of Zhentarim 
operations. Zhentarim activity centers on the Fist of the 
Future, an unconcealed fortress-temple to Cyric. Al 
though the Harpers have struck against the Zhentarim 


Still, the Zhentarim has not been able to seize open 
control. The greatest obstacle is the temple to Lliira 
which, supported by the Harpers, is openly hostile to Cyric 
and the Zhentarim. Zhentarim plans to crush the temple 
have not yet been realized, but will succeed sooner or later. 

Hillsfar: Zhentarim agents constantly seek to un 
dermine control of Hillsfar's military either through sub 
version of the average soldiers, of commanders, or of upper 
government officials. The Zhentarim has achieved no 
staggering success in any of those categories thus far. Con 
sequently, it has been working to sabotage trade out of 
Hillsfar and frame key individuals for various crimes, 
resulting in their death or imprisonment. Many of these 
plans work directly to thwart Hillsfarian occupation in 
Yulash. 

Hlaunga: This is another of the Zhentarim-created 
oases in Anauroch and serves to protect their secret trade 
routes through the Great Sand Sea. The Zhentarim main 
tains a garrison of its own mages and Zhentilar troops here 
to protect the oasis from Bedine raiders. 

Hluthvar: This fortress town, the breakwater against 
Darkhold, is on the verge of collapse. Although its leaders 
are staunchly against the Zhentarim, the city is infested 
with agents of the Black Network. The most important of 
these is Fyroth Tahsravil (LE hm F8/M10), warrior-advisor 
to Maurandyr, the High Ward of the town. Fyroth has 
concealed his true allegiance from the priest-ruler of 
Hluthvar through spells and magical items. Currently the 
Zhentarim is using special spells devised in Darkhold to 
steadily drive Maurandyr mad. Once this happens, Fyroth 
intends to assume command. 

As befits Zhentarim plots, Fyroth has gained a rep 
utation as a slayer of Zhentarim to camouflage his true 
nature. Rarely do his patrols go out without successfully 
finding and defeating Zhent raiders or patrols, and this has 
gained him a high standing as a defender of the town. His 
masters in Darkhold callously view these losses as neces 
sary sacrifices and, indeed, provide him with the informa 
tion he needs for victory. Most of these victims are Zhent 
traitors or those who have lost their usefulness in their 
superiors' eyes. 

Hulburg: After Hulburg's destruction by Zhentish 
forces in the Year of the Bright Blade (1347 DR), the 
Zhentarim has kept agents in the ruins of Hulburg with 
orders to keep a watchful eye on Mulman activity. Endeav 
ors to the west of the ruined city, and the total devastation 
of the Zhentil Keep itself, cemented the Zhentarim deci 
sion to not make any attempt to rebuild Hulburg. 










Iriaebor: Iriaebor, the Overland City, has recently 
slipped from Zhentarim control and is presently ruled by a 
man named Bron, who was elected by the people. The loss 
of Zhent rale here was costly to the Black Network, as the 
city is essential to control of southern Sword Coast trade. 
The days of throat-slitting and Zhent confiscation of goods 
are gone -at least for now. 

Lonely Moor: Zhentarim caravans sometimes flow 
through this area, but activity has been light in past years. 
Because the Moor is only lightly populated by civilized folk, 
Zhentarim caravans bound for Llorkh bearing precious or 
magical goods sometimes use this route to avoid scrutiny. 

Llorkh: Once a dwindling mining town of humans and 
dwarves, Llorkh was quietly conquered by the Zhentarim, 
who slew its previous lord. The Zhentarim planned to use 
Llorkh as a western base for their desert caravan route. A 
Zhentarim mage, Geildarr Ithym (LE hm M8), quickly 
installed himself as the new lord with the support of 400 
"Lord's Men" (Zhentilar troops, LE hm F1-F4). Nearly all 
dwarves have since fled to Mithral Hall. The coming of the 
Zhentarim has been met with mixed feelings among the 
remaining populace. Some view the increase in gold and 
commerce to be a sign of prosperity for the town, while oth 
ers see the unscrupulous elements of society increasing daily 
and feel less safe in their homes. In effect, both are true. 

Fearing the forces of nearby Hellgate Keep, Lord Geil 
darr is hurrying to strengthen Zhent might in Llorkh. Zhen 
tilar troops are digging a large defensive trench around the 
city, and caravans arrive weekly from Darkhold to fortify 
this Zhentarim base. A temple to Cyric, called the Dark 
Sun, has also been constructed to help reinforce Zhent 
power. Its high priest is Mythkar Leng (LE hm C12 of 
Cyric). Despite its heavy activity in Llorkh, the Black Net 
work has been confined to the area just around the town by 
the efforts of the Lords' Alliance. 

Loudwater: This community lives in the shadow of the 
Zhentarim, which cannot conquer the town without seri 
ously weakening Zhent control of Llorkh. The lord of 
Loudwater is also a good friend to local Harpers, who often 
appear in town to dispose of any discovered Zhentarim 
agents. Zhent goods arriving here along the River Delim- 
biyr have been well hidden from the eyes of Those Who 
Harp by subterfuge (merchants disguised as non-Zhent 
traders from Waterdeep) or by being smuggled deep in 
ships' cargo holds. These hidden Zhent cargoes then makes 
their way to Secomber or Daggerford. 

Lundeth: Zhentarim have seized control of this village, 
killing its Bedine inhabitants, who now guard it as undead. 
Lundeth serves as the Zhentarim's western base of opera 
tions in Anauroch, and more than 20 minor magelings and 


priests can be found here at any one time. Zhent caravans 
who run into trouble try to find their way here for help. 

Luskan: Luskan is a strategic trading community that 
distributes rare goods from the Ten Towns to Waterdeep. 
From the City of Splendors they travel to the rest of the 
Realms. While five high captains supposedly rule Luskan, 
the true power in Luskan is the Arcane Brotherhood, a 
mercantile company and wizards' guild similar to the Zhen 
tarim. Trade from the Ten Towns lines the pockets of the 
Brotherhood, gold the Zhentarim would prefer to control 
instead. The Black Network has tried to place several spies 
among the ranks of the Brotherhood, but they were soon 
found dead in the streets of Luskan. Since these failures, the 
Zhentarim has tried to negotiate an alliance with the 
Brotherhood. 

Ma'atar: Ma'atar is another oasis created by the Zhen 
tarim. There are several small, permanent structures here 
that house a squad of rather bored Zhentilar troops, three 
underpriests, and a Zhentarim mage with a wand of fire who 
is in charge of the operation. The Black Network is assem 
bling a large cache of weapons and skeletons (to be animat 
ed as needed) for the days when this is a major stop on its 
trade route through the desert. 

Melvaunt: While Zhentil Keep and Melvaunt have 
been skirmishing of the field of battle since the Zhents took 
the Citadel of the Raven, the Black Network has also been 
working behind the scenes to gain control of the city's slave 
trade. Running the Melvauntian slave trade would enable 
the Zhents to trade more slaves to their drow allies coming 
to the surface in the eastern Dragonspine Mountains. The 
Zhentarim is quietly replacing slave merchants in Mel 
vaunt with its own agents and authorizing these new mer 
chants to pay top price to local slavers -with the gold 
eventually finding its way back to Zhentil Keep. 

Olomaa: Olomaa, another Zhentarim-created oasis, has 
an abundance of water, fruit trees, and grazing land. A sim 
ple stone structure here is home to four Zhentilar warriors 
(LE hm F5) supervised by a priest of Cyric (LE hm C6). 
However, the greatest threat to non-Zhents venturing into 
the oasis is the beholder Xualahuu, who is recuperating 
here after the loss of several eye stalks to a group of Harpers. 
The beholder is fiercely loyal to Manshoon, who saved the 
creature's life after it was injured. 

Phlan: Bane's interest in Phlan was great, as the God of 
Strife tried several times to conquer the small community 
in an attempt to increase his power base. With the coming 
of Cyric, the Zhent preoccupation with overpowering 
Phlan has been eliminated, and forces previously assigned 
to doing so have been temporarily redirected west. (The 
Zhent may eventually attempt to take Phlan, but they are 




45 












no longer obsessed with it.) The rebuilding of Phlan has 
opened new opportunities for Zhentarim trade, but a low 
profile is required due to the presence of the church of Tyr 
in Phlan. 

River Tesh: Zhentarim use of this waterway plays a cru 
cial part in speedy transport of Zhent goods across the 
Heartlands. A typical Zhent caravan travels the river to 
either the ruins of Teshwave or to Dagger Falls, then south 
or north to its destination. The water route takes half the 
time an overland route would. Zhentarim mages are found 
on nearly every barge traveling the river, ensuring safe pas 
sage for their wares and personnel. 

Scardale: According to the rules of the Scardale Coun 
cil, Zhentish forces are allowed only a 12-person garrison in 
this Dale, but the number is actually easily 10 times that 
amount, counting the local "auxiliary" (mercenaries and 
thugs). The Zhents, led by the Zhentarim, are easily the 
strongest force in Scardale. 

The Zhentish garrison is commanded by an ambitious 
Zhentarim mage named Ithana Redstave (LE hf M9). The 
Black Network has big plans for Scardale. It plans to estab 
lish control over Myrian Beechwood, the lord of Scardale, 
and then propose an end to the "occupation" by other 
Dales communities -leaving Scardale as a Zhentish puppet 
state. Ithana is currently working on a plot to frame the 
Hillsfarians for a series of murders to help expel non-Zhent 
forces by putting them in an ill light. 

Scornubel: Scornubel, also known as the Caravan City, 
is said to be the center for trade activity in the Heartlands. 
This nonwalled city is ruled by old, sharp-tongued Lady 
Rhessajan Ambermantle, assisted by three lord high advi 
sors who are retired merchants. The Zhentarim nearly has 
one of these three lord high advisors. Deep (NE hm T9), 
under its control. He supplies the Black Network with in 
formation regarding its competition. Scornubel is also 
home to dopplegangers, lamias, and other monsters able to 
assume human form, and is an excellent place for the Zhen 
tarim to recruit such allies. Zhentarim activity is centered 
around Scornubel's warehouse district, where the Network 
owns several storage areas. 

Secomber: Agents in Secomber are hidden deep, for 
fear of intervention from the Lords' Alliance. The village - 
whose residents are half humans and nearly as many 
halflings, with a smattering of dwarves, elves, and 
gnomes -is a strategic wayside for Zhentarim caravans 
traveling from Anauroch to the Sword Coast. Dominance 
of this community would be difficult. A large base of opera 
tions would likely attract swift attention among the many 
fishermen and farmers, and large numbers of the mainly 
human Zhentilar and Zhentarim would stand out amidst 


the population, which is half human and almost half 
halfling, with a smattering of dwarves, elves, and gnomes. 

Shadowdale: Zhentarim influence in Shadowdale has 
been minimal since the execution of the warrior Jyordhan, 
a Zhentarim puppet with the title of Lord of Shadowdale. 
Because of the events of the Time of Troubles, the presence 
of Harpers, and the watchful eye of Elminster, Zhentarim 
agents have had to begin from scratch in subverting this 
Dale. Currently, Zhentarim agents have established a farm 
along the Northride, and have as yet gone uncontested. 

Shadow Gap: A main trade route passes through the 
Gap, leading from the Moonsea to the Western Heartlands. 
Shadow Gap has been patrolled by Tilverton, which is 
occupied by Cormyr, since the Year of the Prince (1357 
DR). The Zhentarim has avoided total domination of the 
Gap so as not to give Cormyr reason to send in more troops. 
Zhentarim mages often loose savage monsters in the Gap or 
hire bandits to attack non-Zhent caravans and Cormyrean 
patrols there. 

Skull Gorge: This passage to the western Heartlands at 
the southwestern tip of Anauroch is filled with savage tribes 
of ores and other goblinkin, most of whom are under Zhen 
tarim control. Non-Zhentarim caravans through or near 
the gorge are never heard from again. Forces in Skull Gorge 
are supplied and reinforced by nearby Darkhold, and are 
often sent to or through Yellow Snake Pass to fight off 
Cormyte incursions. 

Snowmantle: Once the home of a retired Knight of 
Myth Drannor, Lanseril Snowmantle, Snowmantle is now a 
base for Zhentarim logging, lumber mills, and timber distri 
bution to Teshwave, Dagger Falls, and the Citadel of the 
Raven. The Black Network has found the lumber business 
to be highly profitable, and a garrison of 100 seasoned 
Zhentilar troops (F3-F5), seven priests of Bane (C3), five 
mages (M4) and at least two high-status Zhentarim, one 
thought to be a male mage (M9) and another a female cler 
ic (C8), help with the lumbering and repel encroachment 
by druids and creatures of the forest who oppose the 
endeavor. As it stands, these forces of nature are fighting a 
losing battle against superior Zhent numbers. 

Soubar: This small, lawless town is a full of brigands, 
werecreatures, and mercenaries down on their luck. It is a 
perfect breeding ground for the Black Network. The Zhen 
tarim uses Soubar to fence stolen and illegal goods, support 
ed by forces from Darkhold. Soubar is loosely controlled 
from behind the scenes by a mysterious woman known only 
as Mag, who is clearly more than she appears to be. The 
Zhentarim is trying to learn more about her in an attempt 
to bring her into the Black Network or replace her with a 
Zhent agent. 


46 











Stonelands: The Black Network is constantly fighting 
battles with Cormyrean knights and patrols here, prevent 
ing Cormyte intervention with Zhentarim trade routes to 
the west. (The most heavily traveled one passes through 
the Stonelands and the Goblin Marches, around the Farsea 
Marshes and into the Tunlands, back up through Yellow 
Snake Pass and on to the west. The trail cannot continue 
to skirt Anauroch because the terrain between Anauroch 
and the Sunset Peaks becomes impassable near Anauroch's 
southwestern tip in the smaller canyons around Skull 
Gorge left over from the many times the River Reaching 
has changed course.) Reports of mad beholders wandering 
across the land at night, disintegrating anything they see, 
have reached the ears of Cormyrean patrols. In truth, a 
beholder ally of the Zhentarim named Zantiid patrols the 
Stonelands, hampering all non-Zhent activity from his 
home in the High Moors. 

Tel Badir: This village on the edge of Anauroch is a 
major trading post for the D'tarig, but Zhentarim magic 
controls the workings behind the scenes. The Black Net 
work is working here to gradually eliminate any control the 
D'tarig have. The Network hopes to use Tel Badir as a base 
for the trade of exotic Anaurian items to the rest of the 
Realms and as a jumping off point for caravans across the 
desert to the Sword Coast. Groups of D'tarig actively 
oppose the Zhentarim, and they support any adventuring 
bands who mass against its members. 

The Temple in the Sky: Literally a chunk of rock 
floating in the sky, the Temple in the Sky is rumored to 
have been created by the Netherese eons in the past. In 
recent history the Temple was tethered to the Flaming 
Tower and was where the Voice of Bane was heard through 
the beholder Xantriph and later the beholder Xulla. 

With the death of Bane and the subsequent purge of the 
Orthodox Banites in Zhentil Keep, worship at the Temple 
in the Sky has degenerated into a beholder Beast Cult. The 
Black Network, still allied with Xulla, is well on its way to 
subverting the cult to further Zhentarim interests. 

Teshwave: The remains of this city serve as a military 
base for the Zhentilar (2,000 strong) and a launching point 
for Zhentarim caravans. Zhentilar forces here are super 
vised by a slow-witted but brawny commander named 
Guthbert Golthammer (CN hm F6)-while members of 
the Black Network are commanded by Asdag (LE hm C6), 
a priest of Cyric loyal to Fzoul Chembryl. Asdag is Guth 
bert' s advisor and finds it easy to manipulate the man into 
unwittingly supporting Zhentarim designs. Asdag is sup 
ported, from time to time, by the beholder Manxam. Manx- 
am divides its time between assisting Asdag, reinforcing 
Zhentarim rule, and executing its own diabolical plans. 


Currently, Zhentarim caravans are helping distribute lum 
ber from Snowmantle across the Heartlands from Tesh 
wave. 

Teshenfall Pass: This pass begins at the headwaters of 
the River Tesh and continues through the Desertsmouth 
Mountains to Anauroch. Zhentarim caravans travel 
through the pass, then turn south to Tel Badir. A dozen 
Zhentilar (F5-F8) and two magelings (M6) prevent non- 
Zhentarim caravans from entering the Pass. 

Thentia: The Zhentarim realizes that the only way to 
break Thentia is to ruin its economy, and it is currently 
working on a viable plan to do so. Zhentarim agents posing 
as clothing merchants have set up a legitimate business 
front from which to begin their operation. 

High-ranking members of the Zhentarim, particularly 
Manshoon, have taken interest in the local legend of the 
Bright Sword -a powerful weapon that acts on its own 
accord, flying through the sewers of Thentia attacking peo 
ple at random. An item this powerful would be extremely 
useful to the Zhentarim. 

Tilverton: Zhentarim in Tilverton have been maintain 
ing a low profile since the Cormyrean occupation in the 
Year of the Prince (1357 DR). Agents remain behind the 
scenes, gathering information on activities in Shadow Gap 
and Tilver's Gap. Zhent agents posing as wealthy nobles 
have also been hiring groups of adventurers to investigate 
ancient elven ruins beneath the city, in hopes of 
unearthing powerful magic. 

Tunlands: This area is crawling with isolated tribes of 
goblinkin working for the Zhentarim of Darkhold. Patrols 
formed from warriors of these tribes prevent non-Zhent 
trade from passing through and harass Cormyrean patrols 
who venture west of the Storm Homs. 

Voonlar: Zhent control of Voonlar is nearly complete, 
with the exception of the Shield Trading Company and a 
temple of the Goddess of Bounty, Chauntea. The temple is 
directly opposed by Cyric's temple, the Dark God 
Reformed, whose high priest bears great enmity for 
Chauntea. The temple to the goddess has escaped destruc 
tion due to support from Shadowdale and the fact that 
Voonlar has a primarily agricultural economy. The local 
farmers would openly revolt at any direct attack on the 
temple and its high priestess. Lady Shrae (CG hf C12 of 
Chauntea). 

The Shield Trading Company is another matter. The 
Zhents have made life as difficult as possible for the Shield. 
Rather than start a price war and send profits plummeting 
for both sides in the conflict, the Zhentarim is trying the 
economic equivalent of starving the Shield to death. Sup 
plies due for embarking Shield caravans "disappear" en 




47 












route, raiders seem to strike Shield caravans much more fre 
quently than Zhent ones, and taxes on Shield caravans 
coming into Voonlar are always declared to have been pre 
viously undercalculated - with the result that the Shield 
must pay extortionistic rates to do business in the town. 
Prices in Voonlar are 30% greater than normal (refer to the 
Player's Handbook or Aurora's Whole Realms Catalog for 
price lists) on all items that are available on the open mar 
ket due to these tactics (and the black market, controlled 
by the Zhentarim, charges more, of course). 

The corrupt leader of Voonlar, Buorstag Hlammythyl 
(LE hm F8, and a devout Cyricist) is a Zhentarim agent 
who extorts protection money and high taxes from the 
townsfolk. He suspects outsiders are aiding the Shield Trad 
ing Company with gold and with caravan protection. 
Harpers or forces from Shadowdale or Hillsfar are among 
the suspected perpetrators. 

Hlammythyl is covertly aided by a vicious beholder 
named Uluae, a youngster who takes great delight in tortur 
ous killings. Uluae switched his alliance from the Zhen 
tarim to Cyric the Dark Sun after the Time of Troubles. 

Vuerthyl: This area is a well-watered oasis of fruit trees 
created by the Zhentarim as a storage area and way station 
for caravans. During their excavation of an underground 
reservoir, some Zhentarim came across a rich beryl gem 
stone vein yielding beautiful emeralds as large as a warrior's 
fist. Unfortunately, they unwittingly released an imprisoned 
mind flayer wizard (23rd level) who has taken to studying 
the area before acting. The post is guarded by seven low- 
level wizards and 20 seasoned Zhentilar warriors (F4+). 

Waterdeep: One major long-term goal for the Zhen 
tarim is establishing a profitable trade route across the 
Heartlands to Waterdeep. Though many suspect a Zhen 
tarim presence in the City of Splendors, agents here are 
buried very deep. Agents must avoid conflicts at all costs 
with the Lords of Waterdeep and the Shadow Thieves, to 
name two opponents, until the trade route is secured. Some 
Zhent representatives have been attempting to establish 
small trading companies to receive Zhentarim goods when 
they arrive, while other agents gather information on com 
petition and clients. 

Xonthal's Tower: This remote village nestled on the 
southern slopes of Mt. Hlim is nearly under the complete 
control of the Zhentarim. A Zhentarim agent, one Hansi- 
bal Droun (LE hm Tl), runs a hardware shop and a swap- 
mount stables. Accompanied by a dozen experienced Zhen 
tilar soldiers (LE hm F5; eight are specialized in some type 
of bow), Hansibal and his men have secured this communi 
ty by infusing gold into local businesses and helping fend off 
invading yuan-ti from the Serpent Hills. 


The village gets it name from, and is built around, the 
tower of the reclusive mage Xonthal, who has not been 
seen in many years. In an effort to draw him from his seclu 
sion a few years ago, three Zhentarim mages attempted to 
breach the Tower. Two are now dead, and the third was 
horribly burnt. Xonthal is rumored to be a lich, something 
the Black Network fears and may also attempt to gain con 
trol of. 

Yulash: This city has been a battleground for Zhentil 
Keep and Hillsfar since the Year of the Harp (1355 DR). 
The fighting has reduced the once-proud city to ruins. 
Zhentilar forces stationed here have been cut back and 
worn down over the years. Maalthiir, ruler of Hillsfar, has 
now (1368 DR) openly proclaimed Yulash to be under 
Hillsfarian rule. Lords of Yulash who oppose Maalthiir are 
secretly backed by the Black Network, and these lords are 
working to control Hillsfar. If they succeed, Yulash will 
likely rapidly fall into Zhent hands as the Hillsfarian Red 
Plumes retreat because of new orders from their home city. 
Meanwhile, Zhentilar troops from Zhentil Keep or the 
Citadel of the Raven often foray into Yulash to harass the 
Red Plumes stationed there and support the efforts of 
Zhent-backed lords of Yulash. 

Zhentarim Agents, Rumored: The following is a list 
of communities where Zhentarim agents are rumored to 
exist, their intent and motives uncertain. More than likely, 
their presence indicates an attempt to secure a trade route 
or to infiltrate the rule of the vicinity. 


Elmwood 

Featherdale 

Griffin's Nest 

Harrowdale 

Leilon 

Marsember 

Neverwinter 

Priapurl 

Proskur 

Saerloon 


Selgaunt 

Tasseldale 

Triboar 

Triel 

Tulbegh 

Urmlaspyr 

Westgate 

Yartar 

Yarthrain 


Joitoihic the 


BLack NeTcuottk 

f oining the Zhentarim, whether as an inside agent or 
for personal advancement, is extremely easy. Individ 
uals merely present themselves to the lords of Zhentil 
Keep, Darkhold, or to Manshoon himself. After a few tests, 
such as killing an enemy of a Zhentarim lord or seeing a 




aims 














The Red Plumes of Hillsfar and the Zhentilar clash near Yulash-again. 


trade caravan to its destination, prospective agents are 
inducted into the society through secret rites (usually 
involving a geas spell against harming members of the 
Inner Circle). 

Joining the Zhentarim is easy; surviving in its ranks is 
more difficult. Low-level agents are often given near 
impossible tasks to prove their worth. Commands such as 
"Kill Elminster" or "Assassinate King Azoun" are com 
monly dispensed, and how the agent sets out to accomplish 
this goal is carefully monitored. If constructive long-range 
strategies are set in motion, the Inner Circle knows that 
this individual shows promise. 

Once a character gains some measure of power in the 
Zhentarim, she or he must then worry about the machina 
tions of other members of the Black Network trying to 
advance themselves at each others' expense. The only 
members who are secure in their positions are the Inner 
Circle, and even they must look out for each other. The 
organization is rife with spies keeping tabs on rival officers 
and reporting back to any number of secret masters. 


So You WawT To 
Vroe F orieven.. . . 

s is represented in the Timeline of Zhentil Keep, 
Manshoon of the Zhentarim is nearly 100 years old, 
but appears unchanged from the day he first became a lord 
of Zhentil Keep. The same can be said for Fzoul, Se- 
memmon, and fewer than a dozen other powerful Zhen 
tarim agents (usually trusted wizards and priests exceeding 
10th level). The extended life of these individuals is puz 
zling, for unlike users of potions of longevity or wish spells, 
these Zhentarim have simply ceased to age. This secret of 
eternal youth is closely guarded by Manshoon and Fzoul, 
and some sages have speculated that it may be related in 
some way to the long life span of Elminster. Several rumors 
are in circulation regarding this enigma, attributing it to - 
among various things -a pact with an evil extraplanar 
fiend, carefully worded wish spells, and a potion fabricated 
from elf blood. 



49 










































ZbewT)! Keep-TbeK) 


"Zhentil Keep? Aye, I've been there-and I count meself lucky ta get out alive. 'Tis a dark and gloomy sort 
of place where one has ta always watch his buck, and his purse. 'Tis a place where the merchants get 
rich, the 
priests of Bane do us they will, and the Zhentarim ride behind closed doors. The longer ye stay within its 
walls, 
the better yer chances of crossing one of the three-and endin' up dead in a gutter. They call it the Pride 
of the 
North - 'tis more - like the last layer of the Abyss. 'Tis a place I'm glad I'll never see again." 

-Tale as told by Dutan Bloodletter, criminal and mercenary, 
at his trial and subsequent execution in the Year of the Gate. 



asha stepped through the door of the Serpent's Eye, a large, dirty inn in the 
southeastern portion of the Common Quarter, and onto the streets of Zhentil 
Keep. The pretty young woman of 20 winters swore beneath her breath at 
neglecting the time of day. Usually her duties at the inn never went this late, 
but a drunken Zhentilar had proven most profitable this evening, and 100 gold 
coins lined her pocket. However, the comfortable weight of the money did nothing to calm her 
nerves at the thought of walking home through the city without the protection of sunlight. Weigh 
ing her options, Tasha quickly decided that the Zhentil Keep night life probably had yet to emerge. 
If she hurried, she might make it home unscathed. 

The soiled cobbled streets of the city were still covered with water from the afternoon spring 
rains, and the poorly laid and maintained stones often shifted in their settings as Tasha headed 
north. The rain had brought forth the usual foul and disgusting odors hidden within the city. Hug 
ging the wall as she moved down the street, Tasha held a cloth over her mouth to keep from gag 
ging on the vile smells assaulting her as she worried about making it home -despite having only a 
few blocks to travel. 

Suddenly, a shadowy figure stepped directly into her path from a nearby alley, light glinting 
off the dagger in his right hand. Tasha turned to run, her raven-black hair swirling over her 
shoulder, but found a second man behind her also wielding a dagger. Turning back to the burly 
thug in front of her, Tasha suddenly realized that these men were friends of the drunken Zhen 
tilar whose pocket she had just emptied of coins. Frozen in terror, Tasha's brown eyes locked 
with the two men's hate-filled gazes. Her mind went blank. She could think of nothing to do 
as the two men closed in on her. 

The men died quickly -too quickly, in fact, for Tasha to see and comprehend what had hap 
pened. One moment the off-duty Zhentilar were about to escort her to an early grave at knifepoint, 
the next moment they were lying on the ground with holes burnt through their chests. Looking 
around for her savior, Tasha turned and came face-to-face with a man nearly a foot taller than her 
self wearing a hooded cloak. 

Not wishing to be ungrateful, the young woman opened her mouth in a effort to thank her res 
cuer, only to be once again paralyzed by terror far beyond anything a pair of thugs could ever inflict. 
The figure pulled back its hood, revealing the decaying features of a lich of the Night Plague. Tasha 
was unable to utter any last words at all as the creature said, "One so pretty as you should not be out 
after dark. Henceforth, you are mine!" 


The Time Petziod 

T his chapter depicts Zhentil Keep at its power zenith, circa the Year of the Prince (1357 DR), 
before divine events conspired to massively reconstruct it several times. Dungeon Masters 
who wish to set a campaign in the period after the Time of Troubles in the Year of Shadows (1358 
DR) and before the Banedeath in the Years of Maidens (1361 DR) need only add the presence of 















clerics of Cyric and a third main evil temple (the Circle of 
Darkness, dedicated to Cyric), to the Keep. After the 
Banedeath, the temple of Cyric, now called the Black Altar, 
stands where the Black Altar (of Bane) is located on the Zhen- 
til Keep (Pre-1368 DR) map. The Circle of Darkness is aban 
doned and the Dark Shrine is destroyed, and both factions of 
Banites have disappeared. Bane worship exists only as an 
underground activity, and priests of Bane are not granted spells 
any longer. However, Fzoul still occupies his tower, is still a 
power within the Zhentarim, and has a peculiar relationship 
with Cyric, whom he worships at least in name. 

Only three NPCs of major import show shifts in experi 
ence level from the Year of the Prince to just before Zhentil 
Keep's destruction. Manshoon is a 16th-level mage at the 
beginning of the Year of the Prince and has attained 17th 
level by its end. By the end of the Year of Shadows, he has 
become a 19th-level mage, which he remains until after the 
events of the Cyrinishad debacle, Fzoul Chembryl is a 13th- 
level cleric at the beginning of the Year of the Prince and 
remains that level through the Year of Shadows. By the Year 
of the Shield (1367 DR) he has become a 15th-level cleric, 
and after the events of the Cyrinishad debacle he progresses 
to 16th level (although which deity he serves at this point is, 
uncertain): Lord Orgauth is a 7th-level fighter at the begin 
ning of the Year of the Prince, but by the end of the Year of 
Shadows, he has become a lOth-level fighter, which he 
remains until after the events of the Cyrinishad debacle. 


Oveizv'iecu 
of the Keep 


Z hentil Keep is a powerful city built on the back of trade 
and war across the Moonsea and the Heartlands. It is 
known as the Pride of the North (the Heartlands north, that 
is) and the Thargate City. Its population is 79,000 in the win 
ter, and swells to an estimated 85,600 during the summer. Its 
major products are metal of all sorts; armor, weaponry, and 
other metal products; gems; coal; furs; and liquor. Its armed 
forces are the Zhentilar, currently numbering some 22,000 
crack troops armored in plate mail to full plate, and bolstered 
by almost 16,000 mercenaries of all levels of ability. These 
troops are mainly based along the Long Road and in the 
Citadel of the Raven, with only about 5,000 residing in the 
Keep itself. 

The Keep is fortified with 40-foot-thick walls of black gran 
ite that are higher than the tallest building. They are construct 
ed from stone mined in the Dragonspine Mountains centuries 
ago. These walls can withstand twice the punishment of nor 
mal granite, a testament to the dwarves who constructed them. 


Most of the buildings inside the black walls are four to six sto 
ries high, and lean one against the other. They loom over the 
streets like dark cliffs. Crabweed and lichen grow on the cob 
bled streets, through which dirty water, kitchen, and night 
wastes flow until they meet a sewer grate. There is not a tree or 
park to be found in the entire city. Great iron gates set into 
building walls can block off entire streets in case of an invasion 
or, as the locals say quietly, a revolt. The city is divided into four 
sections: the Common Quarter, the Harbor District, the For 
eign Quarter, and the Inner Quarter. 

Commow QudnTen 

The Common Quarter is where the masses of Zhentil keep live, 
do business, and hope to see the next sunrise. The buildings of 
this quarter are crammed together along the broken streets 
occupied by the common Zhent. The quarter harbors inns, tav 
erns, merchant shops, providers of skilled services, and apart 
ments that house the masses, along with the rare slightly run 
down family residence. The condition of structures found here is 
mediocre at best, and roach-infested and disease-ridden at worst. 
For the lost soul who, because of his or her birth or condition, 
will never venture beyond the walls of the Keep, this is a prison 
akin to the plains of Gehenna. To the corrupt and immoral that 
prey on the ignorant and downtrodden, the Common Quarter is 
the means to gain the heart's desire-be it wealth, fleshly 
delights, or power. The Common Quarter is home to myriad 
inns and taverns, each in poor to average condition. Agents 
from the Inner and Foreign Quarters (usually naug-adar or naug- 
orls) see to it that prospering businesses run by common Zhents 
never draw too many customers away from the plush, expensive 
establishments in those quarters. 

Typical housing for common Zhents consists of one- or two- 
room apartments with poor (or absent) plumbing, unclean 
water, and an abundance of rats and other vermin. Not all res 
idences are in such deplorable condition, but a Zhent must work 
hard to bring himself or herself out of squalor. 

Unless someone leaves via the Harbor District or the Foreign 
Quarter, anyone exiting Zhentil Keep must travel through the 
Common Quarter to one of two gates at the western or north 
eastern portion of the Keep. Each gate is guarded by 10 Zhentilar 
soldiers (LE hm F1-F3), and concealed agents may lurk in near 
by shadows. Entering Zhentil Keep is relatively easy; exiting can 
be much more difficult. Anyone entering through the Dragon 
Gate or the Trail Gate (also known as the common gates) is 
asked a series of questions by Zhentilar guards: 


1. What is your name? 

2. Are you a resident of Zhentil Keep, Darkhold, or the Citadel 
of the Raven? 

3. What is your business in Zhentil Keep? 


51 













T yp'icaL ZhesiTilarz Squab 

C ommon Zhentilar troops consist of humans (50%), 
humanoids such as ores, ogres, and goblins (40%), or other 
demihuman races (10%) such as dwarves, halflings, and even 
elves. About 35% of the Zhentilar are female, with the remainder 
being male (60%), or of indeterminate gender due to unique cir 
cumstances or species (5%). 

A typical Zhentilar squad patrolling the city consists of six to 
20 common troops of 1st or 2nd level accompanied by one or two 
5th-level lieutenants who have specialized in the use of the long 
sword, and a 7th-level captain. Officers of the Zhentilar are often 
humans or half-elves promoted through bribes or extraordinary 
bravery in battle. Zhents who make it to this level are either very 
lucky or extremely skilled. They commonly have a minimum 
Strength of 16 and Charisma of 15. Captains in the Zhentilar are 
usually members of the Zhentarim or followers of the church of 
Bane (or Cyric) who have used their influence to get this com 
mission. Also, troublesome lower-ranking Zhentilar are some 
times promoted to the rank of captain and then sent on a suicide 
mission. Zhentilar who achieve this rank on their own are com 
monly powerful fighters who are cunning and brutal. They com 
monly have a minimum Strength of 17, Dexterity of 15, and 
Charisma of 15. 

Common Zhentilar Troops, LE F2s or F3s (6-20): 

#AT 1; THAC0 19 or 18; Dmg ld6 (short sword); AC 4 
(chain mail and shield); hp 12 or 17; MV 8; SZ M; INT 
Average; ML 11; XP 65 or 120. 

Zhentilar Lieutenant, LE F5 (1-2): #AT 3/2; 
THAC0 16, 15 long sword; Dmg ld8+3 (long sword); AC 
2 (plate mail and shield); hp 32; MV 8; SZ M; SA Weapon 
specialization in long sword, +1 to hit/ +2 damage; INT 
Average; ML 12; XP 270. 

Zhentilar Captain, LE F7 (1): #AT 2/1; THAC0 
13/14, 11 long sword +1; Dmg ld8+5 (long sword +1); AC 1 
(full plate armor, Dex.); hp 48; MV 12; SZ M; SA Weapon 
specialization in long sword, +1 to hit/ +2 damage; INT 
Average; ML 13; XP 975. 


4. Are you a follower of Bane? 

5. Are you from Hillsfar, Mulmaster, or Shadowdale? 

6. Are you wanted for any crimes anywhere in the Moonsea? 

7. Are you carrying any powerful magical items? 

8. What is your name again? 

Answering "yes" to certain questions (numbers 5 and 7) 
results in the traveler being detained for questioning by Zhen 
tilar captains and possibly Zhentarim. Giving different 
answers to questions 1 and 8 also results in similar detain 


ment. Priests of Bane with detect lie spells or minor Zhentarim 
mages (naug-adar) with rings of truth often stand in the shad 
ows and listen to the questioning, acting on the answers they 
hear. (The Zhentarim take great interest in magical items, 
while worshipers of Bane look for a reason to detain anyone.) 
Liars who do not interest the Zhentarim are confronted with 
their untruths and are arrested by the Zhentilar. If guilty par 
ties cannot bargain for their freedom, they often end up as 
slaves or become victims at the Black Altar of Bane. 

To exit through any of the city's gates (even those in other 
quarters) costs money. Foreigners who wish to leave the city 
are charged a gate fee of 20 gp. Working-class or middle-class 
natives of Zhentil Keep are charged 100 gp. The Council of 
Lords assesses such a high gate fee to its average citizens 
because it has had problems in the past with a persistent attri 
tion of its workforce. Nobles of Zhentil Keep and their 
entourages may enter or leave the city at will. (Many do not 
ever pay the full fee. See the section on Bribery in the Justice 
section below.) 

Ha nborz D)$Tiz)cT 

The harbor is controlled by the lords of the city who are mer 
chants, as well as the Zhentarim, as this district is the center 
for goods shipping and warehousing in Zhentil Keep. Most of 
the lords reside in the Inner Quarter, but their merchandise 
storage and offices are located in this section of the Keep. 
Warehouses here are squeezed up against one another along 
heavily guarded docks and are safeguarded by the personal 
troops of the owning Zhent lord. The harbor itself is easily 
capable of docking 250 vessels at a time at its six large per 
manent wharves and numerous smaller, temporary ones that 
change with the seasons. Docking and unloading in the 
north harbor is restricted to the Zhentarim, the lords of the 
Keep, and others having special trading status with the 
Zhentarim. Non-Zhent trading concerns must work out of 
the Foreign Quarter. 

In addition to the guards of the lords, the Harbor District is 
patrolled by a garrison of Zhentilar during the day, and naug- 
orls under the control of the Zhentarim at night. Access to 
the Harbor District is possible through two inner city gates 
leading to the Common Quarter and two inner bridge gates, 
leading to the larger city bridge gates, the North Force Gate 
and the North Tesh Gate. Each inner gate has a Zhentilar 
guardpost near it and is guarded by 10 to 15 Zhentilar, 
depending on the day's activities. Admittance to the Harbor 
is restricted to those bearing authorized writs and on-duty 
members of the Zhentilar under the command of an officer or 
petty officer. These writs are obtained from the harbonnaster 
or his agents at the High Hall, and are issued to (mainly 
Zhent) merchants, Zhent lords and people on their payroll. 


52 

















known Zhentarim traders, and members of the Zhentilar. 
Although required, these documents are easily forged and sel 
dom scrutinized. Legitimate writs can be obtained at the High 
Hall for 25-50 gp and up, depending on the speed desired for 
a reply (no guarantees). Black-market writs can be obtained 
from appropriate sources for Id6xl00 gp. 

Since free and safe trade is the heart of Zhentil Keep's 
economy, the Keep's laws are strictly enforced here for most. 
Zhentarim tend to be above the law, except when incompe 
tence could be traced back to the Inner Circle or important 
Zhentil Keep lords. Zhentarim offenders who might embar 
rass their superiors are usually made an example by being pub 
licly whipped or beheaded. 

The harbormaster of Zhentil Keep is an important post cho 
sen by the Council of Lords, and his or her performance is 
reviewed each year. It takes a vote of half of the Council to elect 
or reelect someone to the position. In theory, the election of this 
official by the entire Council helps reduce the chance for cor 
ruption in the position and helps counter the favoritism of cer 
tain lords. Currently, the harbormaster is an ex-Zhentilar cap 
tain named Zak Tanish (CN hm F9), who retired after a battle 
at Yulash left him lame in one leg. Zak has proven himself a 
more-than-adequate administrator. In the decade he's held the 
position, he has publicly held steadfast against the bribes and 
threats of corrupt lords. In reality, Zak is a Zhentarim agent, 
reporting directly to Manshoon when he discovers corrupt lords 
and agents of Zhentil Keep's enemies. 

foiz&)gxi QuAizTeiz 

The Foreign Quarter is comprised of the portion of Zhentil 
Keep south of the River Tesh. The Foreign Quarter is a stop 
ping point for non-Zhent traffic along the river from the Dales 
to the Moonsea. The Council of Lords of Zhentil Keep (along 
with the Zhentarim) normally does not suppress travel along 
the River Tesh and detain traffic in the Foreign Quarter 
because the volume of traders coming up the river would over 
whelm the harborage. Entry into the Foreign Quarter by either 
the River Trail Gate or the Throat Gate meets an interrogation 
similar to that for the two outer gates of the Common Quarter 
(see that section). Guards at these two gates are somewhat 
more lax and easier to bribe, though Zhentarim and church of 
Bane spies still lurk in the shadows nearby, eavesdropping. 

Two bridges now cross the river from Zhentil Keep to the 
Foreign Quarter: the Tesh Bridge and the Force Bridge. Nei 
ther of them are much like the first bridge begun across the 
Tesh here, long ago in the Year of Mid-Summer's Dreams 
(754 DR). The Tesh Bridge is a series of multiple gates 
through which traffic from the Moonsea must pass to enter 
the River Tesh, and vice versa. Zhentilar under the command 
of the harbormaster record the names of ships, their captains, 


cargoes, and destinations before letting the ships into the 
mouth of the river. In addition to providing an accessway to 
the Foreign Quarter, the Force Bridge has an enormous iron 
gate, protected from rust by magic, which is dropped down to 
block river traffic in both directions. The gate is opened for 
only eight hours per day, often forcing non-Zhent traffic to 
stay in the Foreign Quarter. Non-Zhent traffic is restricted to 
the Foreign Quarter, while the goods of the Zhentarim, the 
lords of the Keep, and others having special trading status 
with the Zhentarim are filtered north into the harbor. 

Non-Zhent traders wishing to unload for the first time 
must seek temporary docking at the smaller dock near the 
South Tesh Gate of the Foreign Quarter until the proper 
paperwork can be obtained for a longer stay. There they may 
remain for two days before being run off by the Zhentilar or 
naug-adar, but they may not unload cargo without a permit. 
(This does not include passengers.) Certified harbor couriers 
at the temporary docks take applications for legitimate trad 
ing and unloading permits to the High Hall for 30-60 gp and 
up, depending on the speed desired for a reply. Black-market 
permits for unloading in the Foreign Quarter can be obtained 
from appropriate sources for ld4+ 1x100 gp. 

In addition, the crew and cargo of ships docked here are 
closely scrutinized by Zhentarim agents and naug-orls. If there 
is any evidence the cargo (whether it is people or product) is 
linked to Hillsfar, Shadowdale (in other words, Harpers), or 
Yulash, or if the crew of the vessel is wanted for questioning, 
the harbormaster orders Zhentilar troops to detain the crew 
and confiscate the cargo. 

Non-Zhent traffic restricted to the Foreign Quarter pays 
exorbitant taxes (docking permit, unloading permit, wine tax, 
beer tax, liquor tax, inn tax per night's stay, etc.) and equally 
high prices for food and lodgings. This quarter is full of inns, 
taverns, festhalls, and other entertainment-based establish 
ments. Many of these businesses are owned by lords of Zhentil 
Keep and the Zhentarim. Being far from the heart of Zhentil 
Keep, the Foreign Quarter is also home to secret agents who 
oppose the Zhentarim and certain lords of Zhentil Keep. 
Some of these agents include members of the Harpers (who 
secretly own several businesses) and Hillsfarian and Mulman 
agents. Rumor also holds that the quarter hides a secret 
temple of the Cult of the Dragon somewhere. 


Ib3b3&iz QuAizTeiz 

The Inner Quarter lies within the boundaries of Flostren's 
original keep walls, built over 500 years ago. At one time 
these walls towered 60 feet in height, but they have been 
reduced to 15 feet over the years. The removed stone has 
been used to reinforce new outer walls. This quarter is home 
to the most prominent, powerful, and deadly citizens of Zhen- 


53 











til Keep Merchant headquarters, plush inns, exorbitant tav 
erns, and the Keep's "official" government also reside here, as 
well as an assortment of other notable (and disturbing) city 
structures including the Black Altar of Bane, the Tower High 
of Manshoon, the Thieves' Guildhall, and the deadly Arena. 
The services offered in the Inner Quarter command higher 
prices than in other quarters of the city, except for the 
obscenely inflated Foreign Quarter. 

Gaining access to the Inner Quarter is not at all an easy task. 
There are only two gates to this quarter, one located near the 
Black Altar (the temple of Bane) and the other near Man- 
shoon's Tower High. These gates are guarded by at least 12 
Zhentilar soldiers, and anyone wanting to gain access to this 
quarter must submit to several questions similar to those asked 
to enter the city. However, these gates are watched even more 
closely than the outer city gates, by naug-orls, Zhentarim, and 
agents for the clergy of Bane. 

The condition of the Inner Quarter is paradisaical compared 
to any other part of the Keep. The general layout of the quarter 
is similar to the rest of the city, but the quality of the structures 
is vastly superior. What few tax moneys actually make their way 
to the city's coffers are used to rebuild broken roads, repair 


faulty sewage lines, and restore older buildings in this quarter. 
Prices for services in the Inner Quarter are two to three times 
those of the Common Quarter, but the patron definitely gets 
the best Zhentil Keep has to offer. Although walking the streets 
at night is not recommended in any part of the Keep, citizens 
who respect the laws (and those that enforce them) are the 
safest in this segment of the city. 

Residents of the Inner Quarter who do not possess the title of 
Lord often pay protection money to one of the city's major power 
groups (Zhentarim, Banites, or the naug-orls), depending on their 
location in the quarter. Despite corruption in these power groups, 
such paid protection is always honored in times of need -hence 
the maxim: "A Zhent promise is always purchased." 

SocjeTy 

'm ZbewOL Keep 

L ife within the walls of Zhentil Keep is difficult and some 
times deadly, but many opportunities are available for the 
resourceful -and wealthy -Zhent. Along with Waterdeep, 
Calimport, and one or two of the cities of Sembia, Zhentil Keep 



54 


































































is one of the richest cities in the Forgotten Realms. Its wealth, 
though, is hidden deep within the coffers of the Keep's lords. 

The W oiitibjg Class 

The most common way to make a living in Zhentil Keep is by 
working for someone else. Many Zhents live by the coins they 
make from day to day, but never have to worry about property, 
taxes, or the shadow of the Zhentarim. Since it is difficult for 
the average citizen to leave Zhentil Keep, many Zhents live out 
their lives as commoners within the city's walls. 

Excluding joining the ranks of the Zhentilar, most working- 
class Zhents hold jobs as tavern workers, cooks, street cleaners 
and repair workers, servants, personal guards, entertainers, pro 
fessional escorts, beggars, messengers, and assorted other menial 
occupations that barely put food in their mouths, let alone sup 
port their families. Joining the Zhentilar is a step up in pay from 
these jobs, and the potential for kickbacks and bribes can dou 
ble a Zhent's income. However, the strict and harsh military life 
of the Zhentilar is not for everyone; there is a very great chance 
of being killed on the job. 

Given their station within the class system of the Keep, the 
common Zhents are often found in taverns or back alleys drink 
ing or gambling away their meager income. They seek an 
escape from the squalor and dreariness of their lives through 
beer or liquor, or hope for that lucky break of the cards or dice 
that will make them rich-or at least well off enough to leave 
the Keep or set up a shop of their own. Many of these sad and 
deluded individuals end up drinking themselves into oblivion 
permanently, losing their money to professional gamblers, 
falling afoul of muggers and thieves, dying in bar fights, or sim 
ply wasting away of poor nutrition and disease. 

The MiddLe Class 


Small business owners, skilled tradesfolk, property owners, and 
nonlord merchants make up the next bracket of Zhent society. 
These folk have inherited money or a business, or they have 
pulled themselves out of the gutter through skill, persistence, or 
luck to compete for their own place within the city's walls. 
Many of these Zhents have either thrown in their lot with one 
of Zhentil Keep's many power groups in order to get where they 
are, or they have been persecuted by a power group that want 
ed to keep them from getting more powerful. 

Many establishments and buildings in the Common Quar 
ter are owned by these middle-class businessmen. (Properties in 
the Inner and Foreign Quarter are almost exclusively owned by 
lords or other powerful merchants.) These businesses run the 
full gamut, and include inns, taverns, small specialty shops, 
wagonmakers, finesmiths and ironsmiths, weaponmakers and 
armorers, jewelers and gemcutters, leathermakers, tailors, 
weavers, millers, bakers, masons, carpenters and cabinetmakers. 


and other trade services. Middle-class Zhents who make their 
livings as landlords own primarily working-class Zhent living 
quarters, which are frequently nothing more than filthy and 
disease-filled holes in the wall. Between keeping their business 
going, paying off power groups, meeting taxes, and other unex 
pected expenses, these entrepreneurs earn only slightly more 
than the common worker. 

Nonlord merchants and traders seldom own property from 
which to peddle their wares, and often attempt to sell their 
goods on the streets to those who pass by. Such individuals 
often earn the ire of the lords with whom their businesses com 
pete; they are then usually put out of business slowly by having 
their prices vicious undercut or quickly at the point of a sword. 
Eventually, the nonlord merchants and traders end up working 
for lords if they prove competent and have some connection a 
lord would be interested in, or are forced to leave the city, or are 
marked for assassination. Many of these smaller, fiercely inde 
pendent traders make an adequate living in Zhentil Keep, but 
the cautious ones make sure not to cross the Zhentarim, under 
penalty of a slow, painful death. 

When they can, both lord and nonlord merchants invest in 
Sembian real estate. This gives them the hope of somewhere to 
retire and a place to run to if things get very bad in the Keep. 

The NobillTv 
Atod Coutoell Lonjbs 

Lords of Zhentil Keep either inherited their money or earned it 
(legally or illegally) through hard work. Those who got where 
they are through hard work involve themselves in all aspects of 
their mercantile businesses, from purchasing goods to accompa 
nying the wares to their destinations. These lords tend to be the 
most manipulative, shrewd, underhanded, and cruel Zhents in 
Zhentil Keep. They are usually involved with the Zhentarim or 
some other power group. 

Unfortunately for the prosperity of Zhentil Keep, many of the 
lords are fat, lazy buffoons who live off the gold of their forefathers 
and are more interested in what new luxuries they can wallow in 
than their family businesses. While the debaucheries of such 
lords are legendary, their business acumen is not. Many of these 
lords leave the management of their business to incompetent 
subordinates or deceitful individuals who embezzle their masters' 
funds and eventually disappear. Such lords are often still lords 
because they have proven themselves to be useful pawns of the 
Zhentarim or other heinous individuals. 


Life of a ZhewT 

M ost Zhents begin their day at the crack of dawn, scurry 
ing to their place of employment or cleaning up their 
establishment from the night (in the case of taverns and inns) 



55 














or day before. The average Zhent moves head down through 
the streets of the city, concentrating on his or her destination 
and being careful not to make eye contact with someone - 
anyone -who might take offense or be suspicious of anyone 
curious enough to look about. 

Any Zhent who has no reason, aside from personal enter 
tainment, to be out of doors after nightfall takes care to stay off 
the dark streets and alleys of the Keep. During the daylight 
hours, Zhentilar troops patrol the city or loiter in the streets, 
often looking for trouble out of boredom or in an eternal quest 
to prove that they are in control. While the Zhentilar can be 
source of trouble in and of themselves, they do well as a securi 
ty force. Business owners and Zhentish citizens walking the 
streets do not fear muggings or robberies during daylight hours, 
as a shout to nearby Zhentilar often solves the problem. 

EwTeRTaiMmewT 

Zhents, on the whole, tend to be a hard-drinking lot, but they 
favor house parties over taverns. Such private parties can 
involve sensual revelry, shady business deals, rebel plots, and 
other unscrupulous arrangements without the fuss of public 
exposure. One of the most profitable ventures a merchant of 
Zhentil Keep can undertake is importing liquor to the city 
from far-off lands. 

Taverns are mainly frequented by military folk who have 
just returned to the city after a tour of duty. Such Zhentilar are 
often in a bad mood after the harsh discipline of the campaign 
and are either looking for a fight, meeting a companion or pro 
fessional escort for the evening, or doing business that they do 
not wish to conduct in their homes. As a result, the taverns of 
Zhentil Keep tend to be hushed, dimly lit places with rough 
manners, brooding atmospheres, and dark overtones. 

The wealthy of Zhentil Keep frequent private parties held 
daily by the lords and ladies of the city or witness contests of 
skill in the Arena to pass the time. Parties attended by nobles 
are frequently all-night affairs featuring exotic and extravagant 
dishes (such as hot buttered snails, covered platters of steaming 
eels in black broth, and pickled vegetables of all sorts), prodi 
gious amounts of drink, wild dancing, and masked games. 
Death waits in the shadows for anyone who blunders into a 
quiet corner where shady business is being discussed. Many 
lethargic lords find themselves slipping into decadence, having 
nothing better to do with their time than to attend celebra 
tions, drink, recover, and prepare for the next day. 

Many Zhents often retreat from the perils of the Keep and the 
stresses of the day at festhalls. These warm, welcoming establish 
ments provide a congenial atmosphere in which to socialize in 
relative safety (for Zhentil Keep). Here, folk of all classes and ori 
gins can relax and talk, sip warm bitterroot tea and broth, and 
enjoy the convivial company of professional escorts of both gen 



ders and most races-without the social pressures of a party or 
the allure of liquor. Festhalls in Zhentil Keep do not serve strong 
drink, and in fact drunkenness on the premises is frowned upon 
(to reduce property damage and injuries). However, admission to 
a the companionable atmosphere of a festhall carries a price, like 
everything in Zhentil Keep. To enter a cheap festhall costs 1 cp, 
and is the origin of the Zhent phrase "a copper to come in," 
which is spoken by the ready-armed doorguard after she or he has 
looked a prospective customer over thoroughly through a sliding 
panel spy-slot in the door. The better festhalls charge as much as 
7 sp, and this practice is the source of the phrase, "a seven silvers 
house," which Zhents use to describe places or things with 
expensive price and high worth. 

Gambling is another form of entertainment that idle or fool 
ish Zhents enjoy. Back-room gambling halls can be found in 
many taverns throughout the city, many of them operated by 
the Zhentarim or the naug-orls. Nearly all of these gambling 
rooms bait their victims with a winning streak, then take them 
for all they are worth. The one notable exception to this is 
Tymora's Holy Hall of Good Fortune and Casino, where the 
house always plays fair and does not extend credit, but payouts 
are usually modest. 

Many folk who gamble fall victim to the odds, whether the 
game is rigged or not, and end up in debt to the owner of the 
gaming hall or the power group sponsoring him or her (such as 
the Zhentarim). This debt is collected at extortionistic rates, 
and failure to pay results in pressure to perform favors or illegal 
acts for the debt-holder, personal injury, being sold into slavery, 
being sent to the Arena, or simply a quick death if the debtor 
has no redeemable worth. 

Gambling halls also attract professional gamblers, who 
come to Zhentil Keep to try their luck in a wealthy city. Intelli 
gent professionals often win small amounts here and there, not 
attracting a lot of attention. Those who earn the wrath of the 
power groups running the house by trying to break the bank sel 
dom make it out of the city alive. 

Farofl-Y Life 

Unless one has sufficient gold, raising and supporting a family 
well in Zhentil Keep is hard. The sons and daughters of the 
wealthy are educated by private tutors and usually follow in 
the footsteps of their parents, while orphaned street urchins 
wander back alleyways in search of their next meal. Some of 
these urchins end up as naug-orls, with their knowledge of the 
streets proving to be an invaluable tool. It is not unknown for 
impoverished Zhent parents to sell children they cannot care 
for into slavery for the gold they need to survive. Several 
orphanages are actually fronts for slaving operations, raising 
newborns and infants to an age where they can be turned over 
to their new masters. 











Though difficult, family life in Zhentil Keep is not impossi 
ble. Determined, traditional folk who are not wealthy some 
times manage to raise a family within the Keep. The children of 
these families often spend their entire lives never seeing beyond 
the granite walls of the city. Many Zhents wishing a better life 
for their families save their coins for years in order to bribe the 
gate guards into letting them leave the city. Even then, many 
families who head for the Dalelands never make it there 
because of bandits, slavers, unscrupulous Zhentilar patrols, or 
roving bands of humanoids. 

Taj res 

Working-class Zhents pay little to nothing in taxes, depending 
on their occupation. This was decided on by the Council of 
Lords nearly two centuries ago after a greedy first lord's tax pol 
icy drove half the working population from Zhentil Keep to 
other cities around the Moonsea. After the removal of the first 
lord by other right-thinking members of the Council, a near 
unanimous vote bestowed this freedom from taxation upon the 
common Zhent. This is probably the only right the working- 
class Zhent has. 

Business owners, skilled tradesfolk, and nonlord merchants 
are taxed on either the goods they sell or those they bring into 
the Keep's walls to sell. Such taxes are typically 5% to 10% of 
the products' worth, depending on the goods' owner and its 
point of origin. If the business owner making a transaction is 
not a resident of Zhentil Keep, an additional tax of 10%-20% 
is also applied. Sometimes it is difficult to tell a Zhent trader 
from a non-Zhent trader, but seldom are the tax collectors, who 
are often naug-orls or naug-adar, fooled twice. 

Foreigners visiting in the Foreign Quarter on business or 
pleasure pay outrageous taxes on almost everything (as men 
tioned previously, in the Foreign Quarter section). Basically, 
when in the Foreign Quarter one has to prove one is a native to 
the Keep to avoid permits fees of 30-60 gp for both docking 
and unloading, the above-mentioned 15%-30% tariff on the 
value of goods brought in for trade, a 1-cp-per-mug tax on beer 
and ale, a 1-sp-per-cup tax on wine and mead, a 3-sp-per-glass 
tax on hard drink, a 1% sales tax per night's stay at an inn, and 
a 2% sales tax on any other goods and services not covered by 
another tax. And these are just the normally imposed taxes. 
The Council of Lords imposes other taxes as it sees fit at any 
other time. Foreigners in the Keep frequently just pay whatever 
a tax collector or merchant tells them they have to pay. The 
whims of the Council make keeping track of legitimate taxes 
difficult, as the corruption with which Zhentil Keep is riddled 
makes getting a fair assessment nigh impossible. Many tax col 
lectors' statuses as naug-adar or naug-orls affiliated with the 
Zhentarim makes challenging any tax collector dangerous to 
one's further existence. 


The lords of Zhentil Keep, whether they are powerful or 
lesser lords, pay no taxes to the city. However, since the time of 
the Night Plague, the lords of Zhentil Keep have been respon 
sible for the protection of the city and its citizens. Consequent 
ly, all lords must pay a monthly fee to Councilor Urathyl at 
High Hall (see the Rulers of Zhentil Keep section) to support 
the forces of the Zhentilar. The exact amount assessed is based 
on the overall wealth of the lord, determined by Councilor 
Urathyl. Although the Councilor is thorough and loyal to the 
city, total wealth is hidden by most members of the Council, so 
most nobles get off fairly easy. Considering the volume of busi 
ness the lords do in Zhentil Keep, the amount paid to the 
Councilor is quite trifling when compared to the tax they 
would pay if they were taxed like other Zhentish merchants. 

JusTice 

The law of Zhentil Keep is set by the decree of the Council of 
Lords, enforced by the military, and sentence is passed upon 
offenders by the lord magistrate. In the day-to-day life of the 
average Zhent, the Zhentilar enforce the Keep's laws; howev 
er, order is really maintained through the cooperative efforts 
of the Zhentilar, the naug-orls, Baneservants (the priests of 
Bane), and the mages of the Zhentarim. The law of the Keep 
is strictly enforced; conversely, because of the breadth of cor 
ruption within the Keep, many offenders escape its grasp. 
Infractions and their penalties are: 

Destruction of Property: 20-gp fine and 100 lashes, or 
one year's enlistment in the Zhentilar. 

Violation of Curfew or Public Violence: 20-gp fine 
and interrogation for intent, or three years' service in the 
Zhentilar. 

Embezzlement or Tax Fraud: Forfeit of 50% of offender's 
wealth and 20 lashes, or three years' service in the Zhentilar. 

Assault or Petty Theft: 30-gp fine or one years' enlist 
ment in the Zhentilar. Men who beat helpless women or chil 
dren are sentenced to the Arena for a minimum of three 
matches. 

Arson or Grand Theft: 100-gp fine and 18 years' service 
in the Zhentilar, or death in the Arena. 

Murder or Treason: Death in the Arena. 

The Magistrate 

The judicial system of Zhentil Keep is a farce. Individuals may 
be charged with crimes by private parties or by the city. 
Accused individuals are arrested by the Zhentilar. After those 
arrested spend a minimum of one night in the Detention 
Center (across the street to the north of the High Hall), they 
are brought before the administrator of the Keep's laws, Lord 
Magistrate Osconivon, a corrupt sot of the first order. Since 
there is no prison in the Keep, arrested individuals have very 





57 













Two accused criminals endure a trial of guilt in the Arena. 


few options after they are brought before the lord magistrate. 
If Osconivon has orders to turn perpetrators over the Zhen- 
tarim or the church of Bane, then their fate is already sealed, 
and they are turned over first thing in the morning. 

Those arrested who are beneath the notice of the Black 
Network and the Dark Altar had better have sufficient gold 
available to them if they ever hope to get out of Zhentil Keep 
alive. Osconivon accepts bribes from all prosecutors, and those 
accused of a crime by a private party who plead innocent had 
better be able to out-bribe those who accuse them. If put into 
a bidding war between two private parties, Osconivon decrees 
that the issue must be decided by a "trial of guilt" in the Arena 
between the accused and a force designated by the lord magis 
trate. Sometimes the accused faces the accuser, and sometimes 
she or he faces Arena gladiators or monsters. The difficulty of 
the match hinges on the whims of the drunken Magistrate. 
Osconivon then accepts the bribe of the winner in the Arena 
and makes an "appropriate" judgment. 

If the accused is charged by the forces of the city (arrested 
by the Zhentilar, for example), Osconivon renders an inno 
cent verdict when bribed by an amount not less than twice 
that of the normal fine for the offense of which a prisoner is 


accused. He cannot be bribed out of an officially brought 
charge of murder or treason, unfortunately. 

If the accused is charged by the city or found guilty, can 
not pay the appropriate bribe or fine, and does not wish to 
serve in the ranks of the Zhentilar, she or he is sentenced to 
the Arena. Osconivon delights in sending victims to the 
Arena. Depending on the crime, those sentenced to the 
Arena may fight anywhere from one to five matches, unless 
they have been sent there to die. Osconivon also sends peo 
ple to the Arena when he cannot think of the proper sen 
tence due to overindulgence in liquor while on the bench, 
which happens often. 

Despite appearances. Lord Magistrate Osconivon is a 
more-than-competent fighter (LE hm F10). If threatened in 
the courtroom, he wields his gavel like a club (ld6 damage). 
He has two stone giant bailiffs and three squads of Zhentilar 
a heartbeat away. (See the Typical Zhentilar Squad sidebar 
for the composition of a squad.) Guilty (or even innocent) 
individuals who are sentenced in the morning hours have a 
slightly better chance of getting their cases heard reasonably, 
if not fairly. Those heard later in the afternoon, when a day's 
worth of liquor has had its effect on the magistrate, are 
almost universally fated to have the merits of their case 
judged by a "trial of guilt" in the Arena. 

Bribery 

Both the Zhentilar and city officials -with the exception of 
the lord magistrate -are ill-paid individuals who would rather 
take in a few coins whenever possible than fill out paperwork 
at the High Hall. All Zhentilar and city officials are corrupt, 
save those who are also members one or more of the Keep's 
power groups, who have ulterior motives related to the group 
or groups they are affiliated with. (See Power Groups.) 

The following table provides the minimum bids bribable 
Zhents accept to turn the other cheek. 


Situation 

Minimum Bribe 

Bypassing gate fee or taxes 

Vi normal fee or tax 

Persuading Zhentilar 

10 gp 

to look the other way 

Persuading Zhentilar 

20 gp 

to release petty criminal 

Persuading Zhentilar 

50 gp 

to release major criminal 

Persuading naug-orls 

Minimum 50 gp 

to look the other way for 

any reason 


Persuading guard to leave a cell unlocked 125 gp 


Remember that not all circumstances allow a Zhent to 
accept a bribe. Taking a bribe and releasing someone who is 





58 


























wanted by the naug-orls or the Zhentarim, for example, may 
result in retribution from Manshoon, the Night Finger (see the 
Naug-orls entry under Power Groups), or another prominent 
member of Zhentil Keep society. Zhents do not take bribes that 
they feel place them in too much personal danger. 

PouueR Gtioups 

e very back alleyway, every hidden chamber, every con 
cealed shadow holds the agents of some secret society in 
Zhentil Keep. Despite a Zhent's best intentions, most citizens 
either join forces with, or run afoul of, one of the many power 
groups present in the city. 

The Church of Bane in Zhentil 
Keep: Fzoul's faction of the church of 
Bane, believing that the proper wor 
ship of the god of tyranny is to support 
a tyrant, has allied itself with the Zhen 
tarim, which is headed by the most effi 
cient tyrant around, Manshoon. It also 
participates in numerous ventures in Zhentil Keep, to bring 
wealth and power to not only the church, but those individ 
uals who serve the Black Lord. Individual priests aid the 
Zhentilar, the Council of Lords, and the Zhentarim on vari 
ous missions, providing many kinds of tactical support 
through the capabilities of different priest spells (curing, 
detecting lies, raising morale and combat abilities temporari 
ly, detecting traps, etc.). 

Fzoul's minions have a hand in the city's slave trade. They 
purchase unwanted children, capture street urchins, and "res 
cue" criminals from the Arena. Followers of Fzoul have also 
been slowly assembling an army of undead, storing them in the 
sewers beneath Fzoul's Tower. Fzoul has worked personally to 
create death tyrants, undead beholders he hopes to use to 
counter the living beholder allies that Manshoon has. He is 
believed to have one such death tyrant guarding either the 
Black Altar or a shrine in his tower. 

Fzoul's faction is always alert for information about the 
activities of the Orthodox Banites and the High Imperceptor 
of Bane in Mulmaster. Priests of Fzoul's faction tend to be sus 
picious of anyone from Mulmaster, considering the High 
Imperceptor's continuing efforts to fold Zhentil Keep back 
into his flock. 

f The Handful of Coins: The struggling 
merchants of Zhentil Keep who are not lords 
have organized in the last few years to form a 
secret and informal support network for each 
other. These folks help each other with smug 
gling and tax evasion, and by quickly raising 
funds for bribes for the lord magistrate or to 


pay off debts and fines. This cooperative effort helps them to 
avoid being shut down by the richer and unscrupulous lords. 
The Coins also exert a united front of pressure on the Coun 
cil to try and get trade standards passed and firm rules in place 
so that fear of the Zhentarim does not drive away ail foreign 
trade, or so that certain lords cannot create trade monopolies 
on specific goods by using arson, blades in dark alleys, and 
similar means. 

This group survives not through the silent support of a few 
sympathetic lords and a lot of sympathetic workers, but because 
the beholders of the Moonsea region see it as a useful balancing 
force and sponsor it behind the scenes. The beholders use their 
own powers to defeat magical attacks by Zhentarim wizards and 
priests on members of the Coins, and use the Coins to contact 
the Knights of the North and other Zhentarim foes when nec 
essary. (Of course, then the beholders can hide behind such 
"outside foes" when the Zhentarim comes looking for someone 
to blame.) 

The Naug-adar: The naug-adar, or 
devil dogs, are the ever-watchful minor 
mages of the Zhentarim. These low- 
ranking or inexperienced mages are 
W given certain spying and eavesdropping 

• tasks that the Zhentarim deem impor 

tant and that require the magical capa 
bilities endowed by the ability to use wizard spells. 

While the naug-adar must perfonn their assigned tasks to 
remain in good stead with the Black Network, they are never 
promoted within the ranks of the Zhentarim until they show 
some initiative. They must unearth information of importance, 
manipulate people or events in a way beneficial to the Black 
Network, or arrange for the death of their rivals or superiors on 
their own to be considered for promotion. Needless to say, the 
result is that naug-adar are a bunch of prying, conniving, back- 
stabbing vipers. 

The naug-adar trust no one, and can be trusted by no one 
until they rise above their low position in the Zhentarim peck 
ing order. They are supposed to report anything they leam of 
that might foul the plans of the Zhentarim, but in practice can 
be relied upon only to report things that might benefit them 
selves or show them in a good light. Any information that they 
come across is weighed as to how it might be used to betray a 
rival or boost their reputation before it is passed on. Beneficial 
information is passed up the chain of command promptly. Bad 
news is buried whenever possible. If information does not serve 
a naug-adar's needs, but does not hurt his or her prospects 
either, it is passed on about half the time; the rest of the time it 
is hoarded like secret gold, with each naug-adar thinking that 
something only she or he knows might help his or her cause 
down the line. 




59 














The Naug-orls: Also known as the 
devil worms, the naug-orls are loosely 
the thieves' guild of Zhentil Keep, 
although they are so closely tied to the 
ruling lords and the Zhentarim that 
they ought to simply be counted as the 
scouting and reconnaissance arm of the 
powers that be in Zhentil Keep. The naug-orls report via a 
secretive and labyrinthine chain of command to their leader, 
Shounra Shalassalar (CN hf T14; Dex 18, Int 16, Cha 17), 
whom they know only as Night Fingers. She is a master rogue 
and assassin who poses as the pleasure queen (head profes 
sional escort) of a large festhall. Night Fingers has almost 600 
naug-orls under her command, about 300 of whom are 
skilled in combat. The naug-orls are organized more like a 
secret spy and informer network than a typical thieves' guild, 
and most naug-orls know little of their organization's activi 
ties beyond their own orders and the identities of co-agents 
and their immediate superiors. Inquiries for more informa 
tion about such matters get the curious killed. 

The naug-orls keep watch over Zhentil Keep's inns, taverns, 
inner and outer gates, and anything else they deem interesting. 
They have been known to eavesdrop on everyone from adven 
turers to beggars, reporting all they hear to Night Fingers -who 
in turn reports to certain lords of Zhentil Keep, as well as her 
master, Manshoon, in secret. For a price, the naug-orls frame 
people for crimes, perform kidnappings, make arrests, perform 
impersonations, and perform assassinations. 

Orthodox Banites: The power of 
the orthodox following of Bane in Zhen 
til Keep, guided by the authority of the 
High Imperceptor in Mulmaster, has 
waned rapidly since the inception of the 
Zhentarim in the Year of Bright Dreams 
(1261 DR). During their heyday, ortho 
dox priests of Bane were the confidants of the lords of Zhentil 
Keep, using their power and influence to help the lords in their 
business transactions and to enrich themselves and their 
church through the services they offered. The lords, in turn, 
supported the worship of the Black Lord, allowing the Banites 
unprecedented freedom of worship. This enabled the Banites to 
bring more worshipers into the Black Lord's fold than ever 
before. The Orthodox Banites lost much of their secular power 
within Zhentil Keep with the Imperceptor's initial (trumped- 
up) discreditment in the Year of the Tressym (1263 DR), when 
Fzoul took over the church of Bane in Zhentil Keep. 

The High Imperceptor's unsuccessful attempt to bring Fzoul 
and his church back into mainstream Bane worship in the Year 
of the Prince (1357 DR) resulted in the construction of a sec 
ond, smaller church of Bane in Zhentil Keep, headed by High 




ft 



Inquisitor Ginali. The Orthodox Banites of his temple cling to 
the doctrine professed by the High Imperceptor, that only Bane 
can worshiped as the ultimate tyrant, and Bane's priests should 
rule over the followers of Bane. Orthodox Banites disdain the 
Zhentarim, and Manshoon in particular, feeling that he is but a 
pathetic hollow shadow of the true, glorious tyrant that is Bane. 
Some Orthodox Banite priests are still consulted or hired by 
lords who have not forged a pact with the Zhentarim. Many 
Orthodox Banites have fled to other cities where prospects 
seem more rosy, while others are less willing to give up their 
home. 

Press Gangs: During the night-time 
hours, the dreaded press gangs roam the 
streets of Zhentil Keep in force. The 
press gangs are sometimes led or incited 
by naug-adar mages or depraved priests 
of Bane looking to test their skill or 
prove their worth to the Black Network 
or the church of the Black Lord. 

The press gangs are supposed to (forcibly) recruit able- 
bodied people into the ranks of the enlisted Zhentilar, These 
collections of brutal thugs are theoretically details from cer 
tain units of the Zhentilar that have suddenly had massive 
casualties and need to be reinforced quickly. In reality, they 
are often drunken and violent mobs of off-duty Zhentilar 
who are just out to knock heads and make trouble. Occasion 
ally, press gangs are deputized as agents of the law (given 
their authority temporarily by the lord magistrate or other 
lords) and are unleashed through the streets in order to keep 
the peace. The presence of these gangs helps keep the aver 
age Zhent indoors during the night, leaving the only the 
ignorant, the foolish, and those with something to hide to 
become victims of the gangs. 

The Zhentarim: As detailed in the 
chapter on the Zhentarim, Zhentil 
Keep is the birthplace of the Black Net 
work. Those who are totally loyal to 
Manshoon and the Inner Circle refer to 
the organization as the Brotherhood, in 
a true show of dedication. Many folk 
both inside and outside the Keep's walls think the Black Net 
work rules Zhentil Keep. Although this may be largely true, 
many other power groups also vie for control of the city. 

At any given time, the Zhentarim presence in Zhentil 
Keep is strong. The members of the Black Network include 
12 to 24 priests of Bane (lst-8th level), 36 mages, another 12 
or so apprentice or low-level wizards (magelings), and 
unknown number of soldiers, thieves, slave traders, 
masters, and obscure informants (including members 
naug-orls). 


















Others: Many other power groups are represented in 
Zhentil Keep, but few warrant a real threat to the powerful, 
though arrogant, lords of Zhentil Keep. Men like Manshoon 
and Fzoul realize that Harpers and Red Plumes may roam the 
streets of the Keep despite their best efforts, and so they take 
careful precautions in their plans. Members of nearly every 
influential organization in the Realms are present in Zhentil 
Keep, if one knows where to look. However, if one asks the 
wrong person where to find them . . . 

R utens 

of ZbewDL Keep 

T o the average citizen of Zhentil Keep, the rulers of the 
city are Lord Chess Calkontor, Watchlord of the Coun 
cil and supreme director of Council affairs, and a Council of 
Lords comprised of 16 other lords of Zhentil Keep, known as 
the Council of Lords. Another 40 to 45 minor lords work 
together as a kind of parliament, each of them supporting a 
lord of the Council. The minor lords are only given a voice (or 
vote) on lesser issues concerning day-to-day operations of the 
city -issues lords of the Council do not wish to be disturbed 
with such as minor bureaucratic appointments, maintenance 
of public streets and structures, etc. Council lords often imbue 
minor lords with the power to speak for them in these day-to- 
day administrative issues. However, although the Council of 
Lords does serve a function in governing Zhentil Keep, its 
members are not the true leaders of Zhentil Keep. 

Although many Zhents contest it, Manshoon of the Zhen- 
tarim is the true leader of Zhentil Keep. He pulls the strings of 
Lord Chess and more than half the other major and minor 
lords of the Keep. Those lords Manshoon does not control di 
rectly he subverts through other members of the Black Net 
work and the Council. Lords who think they act to oppose 
Manshoon are often in truth indirectly working for the lord of 
the Zhentarim, though they know it not. 

Manshoon carries the title of high lord of Zhentil Keep. 
This title does not grant him supreme control of Zhentil Keep, 
but it does place all the military forces of Zhentil Keep at his 
disposal. (He is not their field commander, though; the field 
commander of Zhentil Keep's forces is known as the battlelord 
of Zhentil Keep.) The title of high lord also carries with it other 
privileges and duties that shift from time to time, according to 
what Manshoon can get rammed through the Council. 

From the time the Keep was purchased from Flostren, the 
title of "lord" had been passed down from father to son. The 
death of a lord of the Council required that his son be con 
firmed as a lord by the Council. Some were not so confirmed, 
usually due to political intrigues. These unconfirmed sons 


lost their standing (and their families' standing) as major 
nobility and dropped to the status of minor nobility, becom 
ing part of the loose parliament of minor lords. Members of 
the Council who die with no male heirs are replaced by an 
elected minor lord (unless political power plays cause special 
circumstances). 

Throughout the Council's history, people could also be 
elevated to the status of lords of the Council or minor nobles 
by a vote of the Council. Since the coming of Manshoon, 
"lord of Zhentil Keep" is a title worthy of anyone with loyal 
ties to the Zhentarim -or a rather large purse. In the current 
Council, only four lords' families bear a noble lineage of any 
significant length: Manshoon, son of Harlshoon; Chess, son 
of Calkontor; Orgauth, son of Denuth; and Thaerun Black- 
ryn, son of Alesh Blackryn. 

The Council of Lords meets at least once a week, but any 
member of the Council can call an emergency meeting 
should the safety or prosperity of Zhentil Keep be threatened. 
Those who call an emergency session without good reason 
usually lose favor with or make enemies of fellow lords. 
(Manshoon often calls emergency meetings, or induces oth 
ers to call them, using this tactic to pit lords against one 
another.) The weekly meetings are usually open to promi 
nent members of the merchant community and minor lords, 
while urgent gatherings are cloaked in secrecy. 

Members of the Council of Lords are either powerful mer 
chants with a thriving trade, wizards whose actions and 
wealth have earned them the position (often through Man 
shoon), or, more rarely, priests of Bane that have at their dis 
posal the considerable influence that the church can exert in 
Zhentil Keep. Since the Year of the Harp (1355 DR), the fol 
lowing lords have made up the Council of Lords. Asterisked 
lords' levels change after the beginning of 1357 DR; see the 
Time Period section near the beginning of this chapter. 

Lord Syal Amandon (N hm F4): Battlelord Rorst 
Amandon was a powerful and influential member of the 
Council of Lords until his death in the Year of the Blazing 
Brand (1334 DR). As battlelord of Zhentil Keep, Rorst served 
as the overall general and supreme field commander for the 
military forces of the Keep. Rorst had many enemies inside 
and outside the walls of Zhentil Keep, but in the main he was 
well liked by his fellow lords and the general populace. Rorst 
Amandon denounced Manshoon and the Zhentarim, and 
died a slow death from incurable poisons -no doubt the work 
of Manshoon, a master of slow, wasting poisons. His only son, 
Syal Amandon, is the youngest and most inexperienced of 
the Council lords. Fearing further retribution toward himself 
and his family, Syal has openly thrown in his lot with Man 
shoon. The Amandon family controls the majority of Zhentil 
Keep's weapons and iron trade. 




61 











Lord Marsh Belwintle (NE hm F8): This Zhentarim 
agent, commonly known as the Slave Lord, is one of Zhentil 
Keep's leading merchants, dealing slaves to the drow, to oth 
ers across the Heartlands, and to foreign contacts. Marsh sup 
ports Manshoon openly, but secretly has his own agenda. The 
ambitions and actions of Manshoon and Marsh have run par 
allel or complemented each other in the past, so there has 
never been a reason for Marsh to show open rebellion before 
the Council. Belwintle is an unyielding individual who 
believes in wealth and power (his own, that is) over every 
thing else, and his voting pattern on matters before the Coun 
cil of Lords reflects this attitude. 

Lord Thaerun Blackryn (LE hm F4): The family of 
Blackryn can trace its lordship back to one of the very few of 
Zhentar's chosen wizard lords who took a wife. The Blackryn 
family's tie to magic faded, though, after a few generations, 
and Thaerun Blackryn is little more than the Council's sec 
ond Lord Chess. Unlike Chess, Thaerun is a cunning mer 
chant who has increased his personal wealth through the 
trading of weapons, ore, and exotic goods (especially fabrics 
and spices). Thaerun always votes with the majority when 
dealing with the Council of Lords. He is extremely short 
sighted with his decisions, fearing retribution from the major 
power groups in the Keep. He tends to bluster a great deal and 
flash magical protections about in an effort to convey a front 
of fearlessness, but lacks the guts to back his mouthings. 

Lord Fzoul Chembryl (LE hm CIS* of Bane): Fzoul's 
elevation to lord status was a gradual thing. He began to be 
seen in the Council's chambers, along with several other 
"impartial" priests of Bane, after Manshoon was confirmed as 
a lord of the Council. Manshoon explained his presence by 
telling the Council that the priests of Bane had come at Man- 
shoon's behest to use their priestly magic to keep an eye out 
for undue magical influences upon the lords of the Council. 
After the Council grew used to the presence of so many the 
priests of the temple of Bane in its proceedings, Fzoul began to 
be consulted more and more frequently to "protect" the meet 
ings from various forces, both real and imagined. Certain 
lords of the Council saw the writing on the wall when Fzoul 
became high priest of the Black Altar after the Fligh Imper- 
ceptor of Bane was discredited in Zhentil Keep, in the Year of 
the Tressym (1263 DR.) He was gradually voted more and 
more duties and responsibilities, and finally was able to lever 
age himself into a position on the Council through bribes, 
blackmail, Manshoon's influence, and threat of poison (or not 
being cured when poisoned). 

Many lords fear Fzoul and his command over the church of 
Bane, and rumors circulate constantly of certain lords having 
died horribly after opposing Fzoul during Council meetings. 
Fzoul tends to support plans that involve the church of Bane 


prominently, especially those that will increase its power and 
his standing within the church. He also favors plans brought 
before the Council that take the long view, working toward 
the long-range goals of the city (and the Zhentarim). He tends 
to remain neutral regarding invasions of nearby communities 
and problems with merchant and Zhentarim trade. 

Lord Chess (CN hm F3/M3/C3 of Leira): Chess is a fat, 
oafish, vain overlord with a taste for gluttony. He is a gossipy 
blunderer who follows the orders of the Zhentarim out of fear 
for his life. Chess supports Manshoon in all things in the 
Council of Lords, but does not trust Fzoul and his fanatic fol 
lowing. Manshoon often uses Chess to spread false rumors 
among the lords, playing on their weaknesses and fears. (After 
the Time of Troubles, Chess's spells actually come from Cyric, 
not Leira, although he does not know this.) As watchlord of 
the council, Chess frequently serves as a sort of chairman of 
the Council, but he is only allowed a vote in the case of ties. 

High Lord Manshoon of the Zhentarim (LE hm 
M16*): Manshoon was confirmed as a lord of the Council in 
the Year of Bright Dreams (1261 DR). He was named first lord 
in the Year of the Blazing Brand (1334 DR) by the retiring first 
lord, Iorltar, but resigned the post within the year. Ultimately, 
in the Year of the Wandering Maiden, the Council appointed 
him High Lord of Zhentil Keep. This title granted him the 
rather nebulous "right to lead the Zhents in time of war and to 
govern the city in the best interests of the Council." The end 
result has been to give Manshoon nearly complete control 
over the forces of the Zhentilar. Manshoon convinced the 
Council he needed direct command of the forces to protect 
Zhentil Keep from its enemies, but in truth he has used Zhen 
til Keep's military forces to broaden his own power base 
through taking over Darkhold and the Citadel of the Raven. 

Manshoon wears a mask or goes hooded in public. Even 
when he is not masked, it is difficult to tell what his true sem- 
blage is, as no one can say that they have laid eyes on what is 
guaranteed to be his actual face since his early youth. His 
demeanor is controlled, yet his opponents always feel that he 
is just a hair's width away from flying into a fury. He is biting 
and sarcastic even when being polite to the letter. Even 
while he is away from Zhentil Keep, all the other lords 
(except Fzoul and, possibly, Orgauth) fear the dark mage and 
his Black Network. 

Lord Orgauth (NE hm F7*): Lord Orgauth does not 
directly support Manshoon and the Zhentarim or the church 
of Bane. His motivations, while not good by any means, are 
more personal in nature than the dreams of empire that Man 
shoon has. (The designs of Lord Orgauth are discussed in 
more detail in the "Hall of Knaves" chapter.) Orgauth is the 
only lord not controlled by Manshoon, the Zhentarim, or the 
church of Bane. Lord Orgauth is a cruel and calculating veter- 









an of dozens of wars. Orgauth's family has immense wealth; he 
himself spent some time adventuring in his youth, and the 
treasures he obtained made him rich twice over. Orgauth 
makes a fair amount of coin through hiring out a portion of 
his immense personal "bodyguard" as mercenaries and 
through trading in slaves. Because of his slave dealings, he has 
a business relationship with Lord Marsh Belwintle. 

Lord Magistrate Osconivon (LE hm F10): Manshoon 
needed someone in the position of magistrate that he could 
control, so he appointed Osconivon. This drunken fool takes 
a bribe from any lord, prosecutor, or prisoner who can meet 
his price. A coward at heart, Osconivon is not stupid; he just 
does not care about things like honor, trust, fairness, etc. He is 
fiercely loyal to Manshoon over all others out of his own self- 
interest; he thinks Manshoon can protect him from revenge 
better than any other lord. He does, however, try to arrange 
and collect as many bribes as possible without seriously 
impacting his interests. While he never outright works 
against Manshoon, he may occasionally be persuaded to keep 
silent on minor points. A modest salary conveyed by the 
Council upon the lord magistrate and the bribes he collects 
are currently Osconivon's only source of income, although 


this oaf is the son of a rich Zhent merchant, who left quite a 
bit of money to him-more than even Osconivon could ever 
hope to fritter away. (See the section about the magistrate 
under the Life of a Zhent section, above.) 

Lord Phandymm (LE hm C7 of Bane): This lord is 
one of few who endorse Fzoul's plans in Council meetings. He 
is an outspoken supporter of the worship of Bane in Zhentil 
Keep and is secretly a priest of the god of strife. (Manshoon 
does have his suspicions.) Phandymm was once a busted ser 
vant of the High Imperceptor of Bane within the Banite 
church before it fell under the conbol of Fzoul's faction. He 
was Fzoul's spy within the orthodox sect of the church, and 
was instrumental in helping Fzoul wrest conbol of the church 
in Zhentil Keep bom more orthodox forces in the Year of the 
Tressym (1263 DR), and as a reward was eventually given the 
title of lord of Zhentil Keep through the machinations of 
Fzoul and Manshoon on the Council. 

Councilor Urathyl (LE hm F4): Councilor Urathyl is 
the day-to-day administrator of the High Hall, the public 
meeting place of the Council of Lords. As such he is the ulti 
mate bureaucrat, and an expert in drawing decisions out over 
an extended period, misfiling or losing (or creatively finding) 



Lady Alicia, High Lord Manshoon, Lord Chess, Lord Fzoul Chembnjl, and Lord Orgauth attend a meeting 
of the Council of Lords. 


63 























































































































important papers, organizing panels to "study" problems end 
lessly, hiring his relatives and friends (and the relatives and 
friends of those in power on the Council), "refocusing" what 
he said to mean something totally different, and (in good con 
science) making arbitrary decisions with no input from any 
one informed about a subject. Urathyl obtained a seat on the 
Council of Lords at the behest of Manshoon, and Urathyl is 
completely loyal to him. Urathyl supports the Zhentarim, but 
also works with the church of Bane to further its goals when 
possible. Urathyl's family makes its money through festhalls 
and distributing liquor through Zhentarim agents. During 
Council meetings, all lords must recognize Councilor 
Urathyl's protocol. 

Puppet Lorz&s 

The above nine lords are the most influential of Zhentil 
Keep's ruling Council. The remainder of the lords are nobles 
of lesser influence and mere puppets that fill out the ranks of 
the 17-member Council. 

Lady Alicia (LE hm M10): The first woman ever to 
serve on the Council of Lords, Alicia was allowed to claim her 
position on the Council after her father died because she is an 
apprentice of Manshoon. The Master of the Zhentarim has 
high hopes for this ambitious and beautiful young woman. 
She tends to be quiet, but has already proven an able and pas 
sionate debater on topics that interest her. 

Lord Aumraeven (LN hm M13): Lord Aumraeven is a 
fell and ancient merchant-mage who often opposes Man 
shoon for the betterment of Zhents in the city. Unfortunately, 
even when his actions serve these noble purposes, Aum 
raeven sometimes acts within the framework of a larger plot 
that Manshoon is weaving. For instance, Aumraeven and 
Halaster led the diplomatic parley at Elmwood over 80 years 
ago that resulted in the occupation (and subsequent refur 
bishment) of the Citadel of the Raven "for the good of all in 
the Moonsea and the Heartlands." Manshoon, of course, sub 
verted the entire effort eventually, and in the Year of the Harp 
(1355 DR), the Zhentarim took over the Citadel after a mul 
tilateral force had done the cleanup work. 

Taradril Aumraeven is a brilliant man who has thwarted 
many attempts on his life by the Zhentarim. He has obviously 
used potions of longevity to prolong his adult vigor, although 
they are now failing him. Lord Aumraeven is childless, and 
his death would allow Manshoon to move another Zhentarim 
agent into the Council of Lords. It is unknown what level of 
power Aumraeven still commands; some say he commands 
more might than Manshoon. 

Lord Halaster (LE hm L14): Lord Halaster is a master 
politician, and he often deals with representatives from near 
by cities. When he was younger he was a military man of 


note, leading Zhentil Keep's forces in many actions against 
bandits and the goblinkin of Thar. Halaster owns many estab 
lishments in the Foreign Quarter, and he supports Manshoon 
(although he did not always do so) in return for Zhentarim 
assistance across the River Tesh. Halaster has made a great 
deal of money in the fur trade (using, it is rumored, contacts 
he made in Thar during his campaigning). 

Lord Hael (N hm F4): After years of submitting to 
mind-control drugs and spells from both Manshoon and 
Fzoul, Lord Hael is now little more than an old, babbling 
fool who simply raises his hand for any vote in favor of the 
Zhentarim or the church of Bane. Hael has a eager son wait 
ing in the wings for his father to die. 

Lord Naerh (LE hm F3): Naerh is a buffoon who 
(unwisely) listens to whatever Lord Chess tells him. He has 
been extremely fearful of the Zhentarim since the events 
surrounding the appointment of Chess as watchlord of the 
Council in the Year of the Blazing Brand (1334 DR). 

Lord Payr'adar (NE hm T7): This oily, squat, dark- 
complected man is the owner of the finest festhalls in all of 
Zhentil Keep. Payr'adar came to Zhentil Keep from 
Chessenta with a large number of exotic women in his 
employ. Using purchased favors and promises of exotic 
attentions from these wondrous women from the south, 
Payr'adar found a seat on the Council by mutual vote. 
Secretly, Payr'adar and his network of businesses supports 
Manshoon and the Zhentarim. 

Lord Ssorg (NE hem Til): Lord Ssorg is a hideously 
deformed half-elf who deals in gems and coal, and dabbles in 
trading weapons and armor. Ssorg most often brokers his 
goods to other merchants of Zhentil Keep or sells them to 
travelers through a storefront in the Foreign Quarter. Ssorg 
supports the Black Network when it benefits him, and he 
holds no fear of Manshoon. However, he would rather work 
with the dark mage than against him. Ssorg often supplies 
Zhentarim forces with goods they need at reasonable prices 
to get (back) on the Black Network's good side (usually after 
crossing the line with the Zhentarim somewhere else). 

Faiths of The Keep 

lthough it has the largest following, the church of 
Bane is not the only church in Zhentil Keep. Zhents 
who are not Banites tend to keep a low profile in the city, and 
the temples and shrines of other deities within the walls of 
the Keep are much smaller than the exalted Black Altar. 
(The Black Altar is number 2 on the Zhentil Keep (Pre- 1368 
DR) color map, and a map of its interior is found on page 
66.) The following are the faiths openly found within the 
Keep's walls: 



64 












Chuizch of Bawe 

From slightly before the time that Manshoon first became a 
lord, the church of Bane in Zhentil Keep has been divided 
into two separate sects: Orthodox Banites who owe their 
allegiance to the High Imperceptor of Bane in Mulmaster, 
and the followers of Fzoul. The most prominent faith in 
Zhentil Keep, the Banites boast about 500 active wor 
shipers and nearly 60 priests, if one adds both sects togeth 
er. (Just after the Time of Troubles, Fzoul's faction has 18 
priests and 330 followers, all of them Zhentarim, and the 
Orthodox Banites have 34 priests and 96 followers.) 
Orthodox Banites believe that the followers of Bane 
exist only to do his will, kill his enemies, and bring more 
followers into the nest. Things such as personal wealth and 
power are secondary, even meaningless, when compared to 
spreading the faith of Bane. Orthodox Bane-worship in 
Zhentil Keep reached its peak in the Year of the Trembling 
Tree (1223 DR). With the coming of the Zhentarim 
almost 40 years later, many worshipers of Bane, led by an 
intrepid young priest of middling experience named Fzoul, 
argued that the church of Bane in Zhentil Keep could reap 
great profits by forming an alliance with Manshoon. This 
suggestion met with great resistance from the High Imper 
ceptor, who not only objected on the basis of doctrinal dif 
ferences, but because he did not want to cede any of his or 
the church's power to another. This forced Fzoul to tem 
porarily move the heart of his following (those who wished 
to throw in their lot with the Zhentarim) from the Dark 
Shrine, as Bane's temple was called at the time, to Fzoul's 
personal residence. During all the controversy. Bane did 
nothing but observe, granting all his worshipers their 
spells. Perhaps he was amused at the strife within the ranks 
of the god of strife. 

The two sects remained at loggerheads, and the rift 
between them only increased when Fzoul became high 
priest of the Dark Shrine in the Year of the Tressym (1263 
DR), after Zhentarim agents "revealed" to the Council of 
Lords that the High Imperceptor of Bane was a puppet of 
Mulman interests. Supposedly, he had been working for 
years through the upper echelons of the church of Bane in 
Zhentil Keep to undermine the authority of the Council 
and lay Zhentil Keep open for an invasion by Mulmaster 
that would leave the Keep the first city-state to be forcibly 
inducted into a Mulman empire. The hierarchy within the 
Dark Shrine was shocked at such accusations, but could 
only wave its figurative arms in protest as the old high priest 
and his cadre were ousted and Fzoul was installed as the 
new high priest; the Zhentarim were already becoming too 
powerful to effectively oppose within the Keep. 


Fzoul rededicated the temple of Bane in Zhentil Keep as 
the Black Altar. The Orthodox Banites who remained alive 
after the "changing of the guard" were allowed to remain and 
integrate themselves into the new hierarchy, provided they 
toed Fzoul's line. The split between the two factions in the 
Keep remained present, however, no matter how carefully 
submerged it was. The remainder of the Realms recognized 
orthodox Bane worship as the correct method of glorifying the 
god of strife, putting Fzoul in the minority, theologically 
speaking, and this resulted in constant pressures on the church 
to "come back to the fold" from the High Imperceptor. 

For many years the Imperceptor tolerated Fzoul and his 
followers, despite what he considered blasphemy by these 
Banites, because at least his deity held sway in the Keep 
because of them. Over the years, many followers of Bane 
noticed the social and fiscal benefits of working with the 
Zhentarim and the number of worshipers in Fzoul's faction 
grew, while the High Imperceptor, often busy traveling 
throughout the Realms, continued to lose influence. 

In the Year of the Prince (1357 DR), the High Imper 
ceptor finally decided to do more than send demanding 
missives to the Black Altar in Zhentil Keep. He sent a del 
egation, headed by High Inquisitor Ginali, to yank the 
church of Bane in Zhentil Keep back under his control. 
Closet supporters of the High Imperceptor were convinced 
to make a rash assault on Fzoul and the Black Altar, and 
briefly retook it for the High Imperceptor. Fzoul had been 
distracted by events that the Zhentarim were involved in 
surrounding a woman with spellfire and an alliance formed 
over new magic involving magical bonds that forced others 
to perform certain actions. He refocused his attention on 
his temple, quickly evicted Ginali, and rejected all over 
tures that the two factions reunite. However, Ginali lin 
gered. He had drawn enough support away from Fzoul to 
dedicate a new church to Bane in Zhentil Keep, the Dark 
Shrine. This is how events stood at the end of the year, 
right before the Time of Troubles began. 

During its heyday under the direction of the High 
Imperceptor, the popularity of the church of Bane was met 
with mixed feelings from all Zhents. Organizations and 
establishments who did not pay tribute to Bane often met 
with misfortunes, such as drops in patronage, arson, and 
mysterious deaths. Merchants of Zhentil Keep reluctantly 
paid the Dark Shrine protection money to insure their con 
tinued prosperity. One reason for the growth of Fzoul's fac 
tion after the discreditment of the Imperceptor is Fzoul's 
opposition to such strong-arm tactics by the church. Fzoul 
has no need for protection money because of the profits he 
and the church obtain through the Zhentarim's ventures. 

Fzoul's sect of the church of Bane maintains close ties to 



65 









Temple of Bane 

One square = 10 feet 


1 





Leoel 2, 3, +4 



66 















































































































The Black AITar 

14. Library materials preparation and 

25. 

Railed balcony (2 guards or 1 

(Temple of Bamc) 

storage 


beholder, warded) 

i. 

Grand entry 

15. Colonnade 

26. 

Minstrels' gallery and railing 

2. 

Watch post (2 guards) 

16. Middle-ranking priest's quarters 

27. 

Choir gallery and railing 

3. 

Seneschal's office (day-to-day 

17a. High priest's antechamber 

28. 

Choir master's podium 


business) 

17b. High priest's study 

29. 

Eye tyrant* (beholder) 

4. 

Supplies/files 

17c. High priest's private chapel 

30. 

Wine cellar 

5. 

Priest on call's office 

17d. High priest's private office 

31. 

Supply storage 

6. 

Sanctuary 

17e. High priest's bedchamber 

32. 

Well 

7a. 

Throne of Bane (altar/throne on 

17f. High priest's work room/day room 

33. 

Treasury 


dais) 

17g. High priest's servant's chamber 

34. 

Practice chamber 

7b. 

Unholy water font 

17h. Secret passage and one-way secret 

35. 

Novices' quarters 

7c. 

Incense brazier 

door 

36. 

Armory (spare arms and armor) 

8. 

Sanctuary supplies (incense, altar 

18. Underpriest's quarters 

37. 

Jailkeeper and guard chamber 


cloths, candles) 

19. Privy chamber and wash room 

38. 

Torture chamber 

9. 

Stairs 

20. Underpriests' office (shared) 

39. 

Barred cells 

10. 

Guard captain's office 

21. Railless walkway 


The eye tyrant hovers in the dark- 

11. 

Seneschal's quarters 

22. Railless stone span 

ness 

high above the ground floor. 

12. 

Scriptorium 

23. Conference chamber 



13. 

Library 

24. Private meeting room (warded) 




the Zhentarim and makes no great secret of them, though it 
never tires of promoting its own interests within that alliance. 
After Manshoon threw in his lot with Fzoul (or vice versa, 
depending on whom you ask), many wizards openly joined 
Fzoul's sect, something not previously encouraged by the 
orthodox church administration. These new mage worshipers 
are another reason the ranks of the church of Bane swelled 
under Fzoul's leadership. 

Ceremonial dress for Banites, regardless of sect, is black 
armor adorned with blood-red capes bearing the symbol of 
Bane -a black hand on a red field -in the center. The more 
prosperous and powerful the Banite, the more elaborate and 
detailed the garb. Facial tattoos are common among Banites 
(though are more popular with orthodox worshipers), causing 
Banites to stand out in a crowd. FTigher-level priests of Bane 
often graft precious gems to their foreheads as a symbol of 
their status. Many of these gems are enchanted to offer them 
some sort of magical protection (similar in many cases to the 
effects of ioun stones). 

Wizards who follow Bane prefer to wear long, black-and- 
red robes. Neither priests nor wizards openly wear such gear if 
it exposes them to persecution or reveals their presence when 
they wish to remain unnoticed. However, the presence of 
facial tattoos on a person is usually enough to announce the 
presence of a Banite throughout most of the Moonsea and the 
Heartlands. 

Banites in Zhentil Keep mainly work and reside in the 
Inner and Foreign Quarters, where the city itself is nicer and 


better maintained. Since allying themselves with the Zhen 
tarim, clerics of Bane can be found in the holdings of the 
Black Network throughout the Realms. 

The ceremonial traditions of the church of Bane in Zhen 
til Keep are extremely strict and formal. They include bowing 
and kneeling to or kissing the hands (or boots) of a superior. It 
is unheard of for underpriests to contradict upperpriests, and 
members of the Inner Ring of Bane (12th level and above) 
have unlimited control over their subordinates. Behind the 
veil of the formalities, underpriests constantly scheme to 
assassinate or disgrace their superiors in an effort to rise more 
quickly through the ranks of the Black Lord. The hierarchy of 
titles within the church of Bane is: 


Underpriests 

1st level 
2nd level 
3rd level 
4th level 
5th level 
6th level 
7th level 


Upperpriests 

8th level 
9th level 
10th level 
11th level 


Watchful Brother 
Deadly Adept 
Trusted Servant 
Willing Whip 
Hooded Menace 
Black Fang 
Striking Hand 


Vigilant Talon 
Masked Death 
Dark Doom 
Higher Doom 


67 
















Inner Ring 

12th level Deep Mystery 

13th-16th level Lord Mystery 

19th level and up Imperceptor of Bane 

While his authority is not recognized in Zhentil Keep, the 
High Imperceptor is the leader of the church of Bane in 
Faerun, and serves the faith from the Black Lord's Altar in 
Mulmaster. The High Imperceptor is selected from among all 
the Imperceptors at a special council called in Mulmaster 
when the previous High Imperceptor enters the afterlife or 
retires. (The title of High Imperceptor has not been recog 
nized by Banites since the disappearance of the last High 
Imperceptor in 1364 DR, the Year of the Wave.) 

Churzcb of LoviaTajz 

There has been a small but powerful following of the Maiden 
of Pain in Zhentil Keep since 1305 DR. This small congrega 
tion of Loviatar priests resides in the Tower of Pain Exalted 
under the domination of High Torturelord Ulamyth Quantor 
(LE hm C17 of Loviatar). (The Tower of Pain Exalted is num 
ber 9 on the Zhentil Keep (Pre-1368 DR) color map.) The 



Huntmaster Baerdeth Malagar brings down a boar. 


torturedlord was the founding father of the worship of Loviatar 
in Zhentil Keep, and his success has been rewarded with ex 
tended youth by the Mistress of Pain herself. 

The Tower of Pain harbors no specialty priests of the god 
dess, and the number of clerics serving her at the Tower 
varies, depending on clerics' accidental deaths during month 
ly ceremonies. The number of clerics of Loviatar in Zhentil 
Keep has varied over the years, but has risen to 15 since Fzoul 
gained control of the church of Bane in Zhentil Keep. The 
Tower of Pain holds monthly ceremonies for nearly 30 devot 
ed followers, and frightful screams echo through the streets of 
Zhentil Keep during the midnight services. Followers of Lovi 
atar in the Keep include several lords and members of the 
Zhentarim who covet the skills in interrogation they can only 
leam from Torturelord Ulamyth. 

Priests and followers of Loviatar sometimes break the laws 
of the Keep that incur lashings and beatings as punishment 
(such as destruction of property), believing pain inflicted by 
nonworshipers of Loviatar helps them commune with the 
Maiden of Pain. Worshipers of Loviatar in Zhentil Keep 
proudly wear their ceremonial garb proudly through the streets 
of the city -often gaining a wide berth in the process. Priests 
and priestesses of the Maiden of Pain wear pleated armor that 
resembles scale mail; however, its light-weight design is more 
fashionable than protective (Armor Class 6 instead of 4). 
Priests of Loviatar carry nine-tailed whips, which both repre 
sent their goddess and serve them as holy symbols. 

Torturelord Ulamyth has thrown in his lot with Manshoon 
in an effort to bring a steady flow of gold into his church. The 
lord of the Zhentarim uses the priests of Loviatar to extract 
information from reluctant suspects and captured spies, and one 
or two pains (the name for specialty priests of Loviatar) are on 
call daily to graciously assist with any dudes Manshoon assigns. 

CutX of MaIar the BeAsTLoizd 

The church of Malar in Zhentil Keep is one of the few orga 
nized churches of the Beastlord in the eastern Heartlands. This 
temple to Malar, the High House of the Hunt, is found in the 
northeastern portion of the Common Quarter. (The High 
House of the Hunt is number 10 on the Zhentil Keep (Pre- 
1368 DR) color map.) Huntmaster Baerdeth Malagar (CE hm 
P16 of Malar) is a cruel, powerful (and despicable) individual 
who rules through his forceful nature and chaotic charisma. 
Huntmaster Baerdeth has a staff of nearly a dozen specialty 
priests of 3rd-10th levels, who serve nearly two dozen followers 
among the Zhent population. Many of these worshipers are 
cunning warriors of the nobility or members of the Zhentilar 
who crave the thrill of the hunt. Hunts are often conducted 
against the goblinkin of The Ride, in the hills north and east of 
Zhentil Keep, or the in vast sewer system beneath the city. 




68 















The High House of the Hunt is a virtual armory of every 
weapon imaginable, and a few developed by the huntmaster. 
The huntmaster has also developed several different types of 
paralytic and fatal poisons, but only uses them in defense of 
the temple or when it would be more "sporting." Huntmaster 
Baerdeth often purchases slaves or convicted criminals (from 
the Arena) for his hunts when fierce animals are scarce. Like 
the followers of Loviatar, priests of the Beastlord are given a 
wide berth when encountered by the Zhent on the street. 

Clerics of Malar often serve as bounty hunters, tracking 
down escaped or wanted criminals deemed fugitives by the 
lord magistrate. Such convicts are seldom brought in alive; 
they usually die victims of the brutal tactics used by the 
priests and followers of Malar. Bounty hunting, occasional 
mercenary work, and worshiper tithes and donations support 
the High House of the Hunt. 

Priests of Malar normally dress in woodland gear, usually 
brown or red in color. The headpiece traditionally worn is 
the skull of a bear, large cat, or other savage predator. Hunt- 
master Baerdeth adorns himself in the skull of a huge lion he 
slew himself in single combat. All priests of Malar in Zhentil 
Keep are specialty priests. They can be identified by their 
headpieces and by the daws of Malar (damage ld6 vs. man- 
sized/ld4 vs. large opponents) that they carry, deadly 
weapons created by the church for use only by its disciples. 
(For details on the daws of Malar, see Forgotten Realms 
Adventures.) 

Less lNJfLuewT)aL Pouuens 

The following deities also sustain followings of note within the 
masses of Zhentil Keep, though their Zhent worshipers are 
smaller in number than the three churches discussed above. 

Tempus, Lord of Battles 

Battlehall, the shrine of Tempus in Zhentil Keep, is located in 
the Foreign Quarter. (Battlehall is number 57 on the Zhentil 
Keep (Pre- 1368 DR) color map.) Since Tempus-worshipers' 
love for battle is so zealous, they are common among the ranks 
of the Zhentilar. Zhentilar commanders tend to prefer Tem- 
pians since their desire for battle with at least a degree of honor 
makes them superb warriors who do not turn against their supe 
riors for personal gain. Followers of Tempus are seldom given 
positions of power in the Zhentilar, however, since they have a 
vicious habit of ordering their troops into battle against the 
wishes of those in charge when battlelust comes over them. 

Priests of Tempus generally refuse to work with clerics (and 
sometimes worshipers) of Bane, judging them to be cowards 
who torture the helpless and flee from any contest. However, 
priests of Bane who prove themselves in battle by killing a 
superior opponent are tolerated. 


Auril, the Frostmaiden 

Worshipers of the Frostmaiden roam the streets of Zhentil 
Keep in the winter months and are seldom seem during the 
rest of the year. Their apparent purpose in the city is to recruit 
followers for the Ice Queen from among the homeless of the 
Keep. Many of these refugees, who would otherwise perish 
during the harsh weeks of winter, find salvation and life under 
the wing of the Aurilians, instead of a frozen death in some 
back alleyway of the Keep. Auril is rumored to have a secret 
shrine somewhere in the Keep. 

Umberlee, the Bitch Queen 

Followers of the Queen of the Sea are deeply hidden and wor 
ship in secret, although there is undoubtedly a sect serving 
her in the Keep simply because it is a port of some signifi 
cance. Any public invocation of the name of the Bitch 
Queen is usually done to avoid her unwanted attentions in a 
seagoing venture, rather than to call forth her power. Many 
Zhents seek to appease Umberlee to insure their safe travel 
across the Sea of Fallen Stars. A hidden shrine to Umberlee is 
said to exist in the Foreign Quarter, where the majority of 
seagoing traffic stops before heading to the Moonsea. 

Tymora, Lady of Luck 

The name of Tymora is invoked often in Zhentil Keep by 
those needing the power of luck to survive to see the next day. 
The shrine of Tymora in Zhentil Keep is Tymora's Holy Hall 
of Good Fortune and Casino. (Tymora's Holy Hall of Good 
Fortune and Casino is number 58 on the Zhentil Keep (Pre- 
1368 DR) color map.) Tymora's priesthood is not usually 
inclined to run a business on the premises of her shrines. The 
pressure exerted by the more powerful evil churches in Zhen 
til Keep on the Council of Lords, to not allow a shrine of 
Tymora to be erected in the Keep, resulted in the construc 
tion of the casino as a compromise. The hefty tax assessed by 
the Council on the casino allows the Council's greed to out 
weigh its fear of reprisals from the churches of Bane, Loviatar, 
and Malar. Priests of Tymora are forbidden by law to enter any 
other gambling establishments in the city, for they often walk 
away with exorbitant sums of gold. Invoking the luck of 
Tymora, however, is not yet a crime. 

PLaces 
of IwTe^asT 

T o detail every building or hideaway in the Zhentil Keep 
would be a laborious task. Below are descriptions of the 
most prominent structures and establishments within the 
Keep by type. 





69 









Injws 

Zhentil Keep's inns are comparatively few. Those that can be 
found in the city are commonly of two types: large, spired 
stone structures that are clearly in better shape than the build 
ings around them, and sprawling multifloor buildings of wood 
and stucco whose upper floors are often cantilevered out over 
their first stories. All inns of the Keep also tend to be fairly 
expensive: 3 gp per person per night is a typical "low board" 
rate in the Common Quarter, while as much as 10-20 gp per 
person is common for inns in the Foreign and Inner Quarters. 
This rate usually includes a simple breakfast, stabling and feed 
for a mount, a basin full of ice-cold water, and a towel. In the 
cheapest of inns a traveler often spends the night in a wooden 
trestle bed, in a room shared with three other guests. 

Most inns are guarded by private hireswords, and patrols of 
Zhentilar are a shout away. Inn guards take a dim view of fight 
ing and are likely to eject brawlers into the street, leaving 
them to the mercy of press gangs and other night-time men 
aces. Corpses and badly wounded customers are also dumped 
out onto the cobblestone streets. 

Below are a list of inns in Zhentil Keep, what sections of 



A tired sailor relaxes in Oparil's Tower. 


the city they can be found in, and what types of clientele fre 
quent them. Their numbered locations from the Zhentil Keep 
(Pre-1368 DR) color map are noted next to their names. 

The Eagle of the North (14): Located just inside the 
Dragon Gate, this inn is a drab, tired old building huddled in a 
dark part of the city. Travelers not wanting to venture further 
into the city board here, despite the inn's cheerless decor and 
mediocre service. The Eagle is lit only by little scented brass oil 
lamps, giving the inn a peculiar smell both inside and out. 
Between 15 and 20 rooms are available here at any one time, 
with the rest being used by Zhentilar gate guards too drunk to 
make it home. 

The Heroes' Rest (12): The Heroes' Rest is a cozy but 
noisy inn located in the southwestern part of the Inner Quar 
ter. The Rest boasts quality food, lavish lodging, and nightly 
entertainment for visiting dignitaries and wealthy adventurers. 
This inn has 15 luxurious and spacious rooms, and it is the 
most expensive boardinghouse in the Inner Quarter. The 
Heroes' Rest is owned and operated by the Zhentarim, who 
keep a close eye on who visits the inn and their reasons from 
coming to Zhentil Keep. 

Oparil's Tower (13): Oparil is an aging female human 
bard whose establishment flaunts the best singers and sto 
rytellers in Zhentil Keep. This sprawling structure, which fea 
tures a large tower that rises above the buildings for several 
blocks, is located in the Harbor District. It was once a beauti 
ful structure inside and out. Over the years, business has been 
steadily declining due to construction or remodeling of more 
lavish inns in the Inner Quarter, and Oparil has let the tower 
fall into disrepair. Oparil's Tower is known for its tapestries and 
draperies collected from the far comers of the Realms. How 
ever, these are poorly maintained and give off clouds of dust if 
struck. This inn is often a resting place for Zhent sailors who 
dock in the harbor after hours and do not wish to try their luck 
getting home. The Tower hosts 20 rooms and has no stables, 
but does feature a small bathhouse where a traveler can get a 
much-needed soak. 

The Pride of Zhentil Keep (16): The Pride, located in 
the Foreign District, is patronized by bullies and warriors. 
Fights at this inn occur almost nightly, and the common room 
of the establishment has very little unbroken furniture. Its 15 
largish rooms range from adequate to poor in quality, and are 
dirty and cold. "Even the chamber pots leak," more than one 
disgusted guest has commented. Despite the rough image por 
trayed in the inn's common room, access to the Pride's sleeping 
rooms is guarded by several hireswords who usually ensure a 
restful evening for its patrons. 

The Silver Trumpet Inn (11): Located in the northwest 
comer of the Common Quarter, the Trumpet is a many-turret- 
ed microcastle. It is the best of the inns located in this portion 


























































































of the city, and better than almost all in the Keep except some 
establishments in the Inner Quarter. Its prices reflect its status, 
however, as they are quite high. The Silver Trumpet boasts 30 
rooms and nightly entertainment by traveling bards or local 
singers looking to make a living. The Trumpet is owned, 
behind the scenes, by none other than Manshoon of the 
Zhentarim, though its administration is handled through an 
intermediary. Manshoon often frequents the inn during his 
more quiet moods, to listen to the words of the common 
Zhents who come here. 

The Serpent's Eye (15): This inn is a huge, creaking, old 
ruin of a place located in the southeastern portion of the 
Common Quarter. It is leaky in wet weather and drafty all 
season long. The Serpent's Eye is favored by fighting men and 
freelance thieves, and is known for a large gambling room in 
its basement-which is operated by the naug-orls. Despite its 
shabby appearance, the inn's 37 rooms are never empty for 
long, and prices to stay the night here are moderate. 

The Tesh Inn (55): The most lavish inn in the Foreign 
Quarter, the Tesh Inn is the most extravagant resort a non- 
Zhent can access, and the most expensive inn outside the 
Inner Quarter. A traveler can expect to pay at least 30 gold 
pieces for an evening of entertainment, lodging, and meals. 
The Tesh is owned and operated by Lord Payr'adar, whose 
southern preclusions for the opulent and the ornate can be 
seen in the decor. The Tesh is also the Foreign Quarter's most 
prominent festhall, with dozens of exotic professional escorts 
from Chessenta, Calimshan, and Chult whose beauty is 
enough to thrill anyone's heart. Most employees of the Tesh 
Inn are members or informants for the Zhentarim, including 
the escorts, who use their wiles to extract information from 
their clients. This inn boasts 20 rooms, and Lord Payr'adar has 
designs to build a second establishment when suitable proper 
ty can be found. 

T AV&lZbJS 

Since Zhents love their liquor, day or night, taverns aplenty 
line the streets in Zhentil Keep. Most taverns are dimly lit 
buildings who cater to a specific clientele, with others entering 
at their own risk. Their numbered locations from the Zhentil 
Keep (Pre-1368 DR) color map are noted next to their names. 

The Axe and the Minotaur (19): The Axe and the 
Minotaur is a Zhentilar hangout located near the Trail Gate. 
Agents for various power groups can be found here, keeping a 
close eye on who is entering the Keep. 

The Black Avatar (21): The most sinister of taverns in 
the Inner Quarter near Fzoul's Tower, the Black Avatar is a 
place where the disciples of Bane come to converse and relax 
without overindulging. Many dark deals are conducted in its 
shadowy nooks. 


The Cloven Ogre (18): This tavern sports a signboard 
depicting an axe-split beastman with an expression of pain on 
the two halves of his face. Brash young Zhentilar soldiers 
make this tavern, located in the northern portion of the 
Common Quarter, their home while off -and even on-duty. 

The Gorey Eye-Beast (24): This tavern's sign shows an 
eye tyrant whose fangs are dripping with blood, below which 
is printed the name of the tavern. The spelling of the name 
("Gorey") shows the scant familiarity its owners and patrons 
have with formal instruction. The worst of the worst, this tav 
ern is exclusive to evil humanoids (ores, ogres, hobgoblins, 
and the like) who are members of the Zhentilar under the 
command of General Vrakk, an ore (see the novel Crusade). 
Humans and demihumans who attempt to enter the Gorey 
Eye-Beast are met by a half-dozen ogres with bloodlust in 
their eyes and a club in each hand. Those skilled enough to 
make it pass the tavern's bouncers are allowed in, but are care 
fully watched. The Gorey Eye-Beast is located in the south 
eastern portion of the Common Quarter, and a temple to the 
ore god Gruumsh is rumored to be hidden nearby. 

The Last Stop (23): This tavern is a place publicly 
known to be favored by Zhentarim mages, especially the 
naug-adar. Arrogant young wizards trying to learn more about 
the Black Network or desiring to join it often come here for 
more information. This tavern is truly the last stop for non- 
Zhentarim who enter without reason. Its owner prides himself 
on the strange and exotic liquors and wines he stocks, but he 
charges high rates to sample drinks with such peculiar names 
as dewberry blush wine, golden lionsheart, and icehoney. 

The Roaring Dragon (22): Anyone who has been to 
Zhentil Keep knows of the Roaring Dragon. This tavern is a 
lively, honest place whose doors are open to all-even known 
Zhentarim and priests of Bane. The finest in entertainment 
can always be found on the Dragon's large stage, brightening 
the lives of Zhents throughout the daylight hours. After sun 
set, the doors of the Roaring Dragon are open only to mem 
bers of the military and those holding no fear of the night. 
Average citizens are encouraged to return home before sunset, 
and a large gong is rung once an hour before sunset, and 
another time a half an hour before it to warn customers who 
might have overindulged and lost track of the time. 

The Shield Faces North (25): Probably the oldest tav 
ern still operating in Zhentil Keep, the Shield is a quiet place 
located in the heart of the Harbor District. This tavern is fre 
quented by those wishing to spend a quiet evening in calm 
surroundings - such as dwarves, halflings, and older mer 
chants reminiscing about the old days before a crackling fire 
place. Its sedate clientele is probably partially due to the strict 
requirements for gaining access to the Harbor District, which 
keep out most average citizens of the Keep and even discour- 





71 











age sailors and longshoremen from lingering in the area 
longer than it takes to just do their jobs. 

The Whipwalker's Cloak (20): This establishment is 
frequented by worshipers of Loviatar and those curious about 
the teachings of the Maiden of Pain. Ruffians who think to 
infiltrate the Whipwalker's Cloak are often dealt a dozen or so 
lashes and are cast out into the street as an example to others. 
Patron's of this bar are known for their unusual fashion sense, 
and many seem to favor spike-studded leather garments and 
decorative chain mail outfits. 

T oiverzs, TecnpX.es, awd Halls 

Zhentil Keep has quite a few landmark structures, buildings 
that are not a part of the typical street structure and often house 
important people, are temples, or are used by the city's govern 
ment. Many of these prominent buildings are located in the 
Inner Quarter, home of Zhentil Keep's most powerful and influ 
ential people. Their numbered locations from the Zhentil Keep 
(Pre-1368 DR) color map are noted next to their names. 

The Arena (4): This coliseum was constructed for the 
amusement of the lords hundreds of years ago, affording them 
the sport of gladiatorial games and allowing them to witness the 
deaths of traitors and lawbreakers at the hands of savage mon 
sters or other criminals. The current status of the Arena allows 
for trial by combat four or five days a week, depending on the 
number of offenders to be dealt with. Being sent to the Arena 
usually means death-if not in one's first fight, then later, when 
one is weakened by successive battles and poor conditions 
offering little shelter, poor food, and no clerical healing. 

On days when combat is not on the agenda, the Arena is 
used to unload large caravans (led here under guard from the 
Trail Gate) or as an enormous merchant bazaar where every 
one from the common Zhent to lords of the Keep can peddle 
their wares. The combat area is covered in fresh sand, saw 
dust, or straw each day, and the majority of the structure is of 
stone. The good seats command a view of most of the combat 
area and are covered by an awning to protect their occupants 
from the heat and the weather; the cheap seating areas are 
wooden bleachers. 

The Black Altar (2): Known as the Dark Shrine in the 
heyday of the High Imperceptor's influence and the Black 
Altar under the leadership of Fzoul, this black granite struc 
ture is the second largest public temple to Bane in the 
Realms. One legend says that the temple was constructed, 
stone by stone, by Bane himself in his home plane and 
brought to Zhentil Keep as a gift for his faithful. (More realis 
tic enthusiasts maintain that perhaps it was designed by Bane; 
there is ample record of its prolonged construction and 
numerous remodelings by the workers in Zhentil Keep.) The 
temple is five stories high, with imposing decorative elements 


that jut upward like black serrated blades. (A subterranean 
floor brings the total number of floors in the structure to six.) 

The subterranean level of the temple contains a warren of 
small rooms, including quarters for novices and middle-ranking 
priests, storage, a well, torture rooms, dungeons, and the 
temple's treasury. The first floor features more priests' quarters, 
offices, the high priest's apartment/offices, the library, the scrip 
torium, and more offices and priests' quarters are located on the 
second through fourth floors. The fifth floor contains confer 
ence chambers, a choir loft, and a minstrel gallery. The bulk of 
the temple is an immense cathedral reaching up to the darkness 
above, where at least one beholder usually lurks, guarding the 
temple and gathering intelligence for Fzoul and Manshoon (or 
for its own foul purposes). A secret passage from the basement 
of Fzoul's Tower exits in a magically silenced trapdoor near the 
altar on the first level. (The trapdoor never squeaks or thuds 
when opened or closed.) Another branch of this secret passage 
is said to exit somewhere in the high priest's apartment. 

Eye of the Beholder (30): Outside the Black Altar, near 
the west wing that houses the high priest's apartments, is a 
grand statue of a beholder atop a slim spire of black stone. The 
entire statue is carved from a single piece of rock. As a token 
of their alliance with the lords of Zhentil Keep, this statue was 
raised in tribute to the beholders who help keep Zhentil Keep 
safe. This is what is told to explain the statue to the to the 
common Zhent, but those who know of beholders know (or 
suspect) the truth, that the beholders' alliance is with Man 
shoon and the Zhentarim, not the lords. 

Fzoul's Tower (5): Traditionally, this tower has been the 
private residence of the head of the church of Bane in Zhentil 
Keep, and Fzoul has always managed to retain control over it, 
even during the brief periods when he was forced from the 
grounds of the Black Altar. Fzoul's Tower is narrow, but tall, 
rising five stories above the city street. The Tower is of stone 
and square in form, although a wooden stable annex built 
onto the base somewhat mars its symmetry. In addition to the 
stables, the Tower holds a feast hall, a private laboratory, 
Fzoul's office, and Fzoul's private bedchamber. He prefers 
dwelling in this room at night rather than in the sleeping 
chamber of the high priest's apartment in the Black Altar. 
Below the Tower's ground level, numerous underground pas 
sages that crisscross Zhentil Keep converge near a private 
altar chamber, rough-hewn from the ground of the Keep. A 
secret passage leads from this tower to the Black Altar, exiting 
in a magically silenced trapdoor near the altar on the first 
level. Another branch of this secret passage is exits some 
where in the high priest's apartment in the Black Altar. The 
roof of Fzoul's Tower is guarded by three wyvems who follow 
simple commands from anyone wearing robes of the church of 
Bane. (A map of Fzoul's Tower can be found on page 73.) 












FzoaL's T owen 

One square = 5 feet 






Key CM 

1. Feast hall 

2. Laboratory 

3. Stable 

4. Stairs 

5. Kitchen 

6. Dry storage 

7. Cold storage 

8. Fzoul's office 

9. Conference room 

10. Fzoul's private chambers 

11. Treasure vault 

12. Meditation chamber 

13. Secret passage to temple of Bane 
14- Black Altar of Bane 

15. Altar 

16. Eye tyrant 



Level 2 




Subterranean Level 


















































































































High Hall of the Lords' Council (3): This hall is a series 
of connected buildings that consist of a meeting hall for the 
Council of Lords, the offices and courtroom of the lord magis 
trate, a small detention area for lawbreakers whom the magis 
trate is next to hear, and a great many offices occupied by 
minor bureaucrats who are in charge of maintaining an assort 
ment of poorly organized files or dispensing permits and 
licenses. (There is no prison in Zhentil Keep, as all criminals 
are immediately dealt with in one way or another.) Two stone 
giant bailiffs and a minimum of 36 Zhentilar warriors guard 
the Hall at all times. This number will double should there be 
a meeting of the lords in session. 

Thieves' Guildhall (6): This fortified guildhall is the 
home of the naug-orls. This four-story structure serves as liv 
ing quarters, a training area, and a central base of operations 
for the group. The basement of the guildhall has a direct 
link to the sewer system, which the guild uses extensively. 
Night Fingers, leader of the naug-orls, does not live here, 
and the worms who reside at the guild (rather than report 
ing in here occasionally) are generally low- and mid-level 
thieves; those who have gained more experience, power, 
and gold have their own homes in the Keep or are function 
ing undercover in a role that would preclude them living at 
the guildhall. 

The Tower High (1): The Tower High is the largest of 
the four towers in a Manshoon's walled compound. Their 
interior courtyard of the compound opens off its base, and an 
observation platform is located on its roof. (A map of the 
Tower High can be found on page 75.) 

Like the homes of many important figures, the tower serves 
both Manshoon's public and private needs. The Tower High 
is Manshoon's residence, but a table in Manshoon's paneled 
feast hall serves as a not-so-secret meeting place for the Coun 
cil of Lords as well as providing a secret meeting location for 
the Zhentarim's Inner Circle. Clinging to the rafters of this 
modestly sized but elegant hall are a number of hideous (liv 
ing) gargoyles. Six stone golems stand mutely in the shadows 
throughout the Tower High, each coming to life with a com 
mand from Manshoon. He restations them as he sees fit, to 
better protect himself and his property. 

Deep in the bowels of Manshoon's tower is the lair of his 
personal black dragon, Orlgaun. Orlgaun was slain in the Year 
of the Worm (1356 DR) and replaced with a younger wyrm, 
who is actually a magical clone of the first. When the dragon is 
called forth, great stone doors open into the courtyard, releas 
ing the creature. Also located within the depths of the tower 
is one of Manshoon's many magical laboratories. Here he 
hides some of his greatest magical devices, one set of his spell- 
books, and numerous stasis clones with contingency spells that 
activate them in the event of Manshoon's death. These 


chambers are protected by powerful guards and wards spells, as 
are all the rooms of the Tower High. 

Shops <\K)d Senx>)ces 

Among the populace of Zhentil Keep are a diverse variety of 
craftsfolk, artisans, and others skilled in strange or unique pro 
fessions. Some of services can only be found in the heart of 
Zhentil Keep, with people traveling across the Heartlands to 
visit with a lone crafter or artist. Shops (and almost all build 
ings) in Zhentil Keep sport iron bars and shutters on all the 
street-level windows; many establishments, especially in the 
Inner Quarter and Foreign Quarter, also have sliding panel spy- 
slots in their entrance doors through which their armed 
doorguards can look to decide whether to admit a customer. 

Services vary between the different districts of the city. The 
Foreign Quarter does supply at least one outlet for any type of 
trade, and that service provider usually charges stratospheric 
prices. It is easier to located skilled tradespeople of certain pro 
fessions in the city. Common laborers, messengers, butchers, 
tanners, pawnbrokers, gravediggers, liveries, brewers, mid- 
wives, bowyers, leathercrafters, fletchers, tailors, weavers, 
cooks, and bakers, among others, can be found in most quarters 
of the Keep. The quality of their work varies, and the prices for 
their wares or their labor tend to be inflated in a manner simi 
lar to all prices in the Keep, and proportionate to other trades 
folk of the quarter they work in. Most of these tradespeople 
serve the local population's needs, and are not of Faerun-wide 
class in their chosen crafts -nor do they need to be. 

Cartographers, scribes, vintners and distillers, smiths, fine- 
smiths, armorers, weaponmakers, caravan masters, jewelers, 
gemcutters, and other professions requiring an education, a 
long apprenticeship, or dealing with valuable basic materials 
tend to be located in the better parts of Common Quarter or 
in the Inner Quarter. They also often work exclusively for a 
certain noble house or organization. Their services command 
a high price, when they can be obtained. 

The best craftsmen can be found in the Inner Quarter. 
Here are found blacksmiths who can forge weapons worthy of 
magical enchantments, scribes that can forge documents from 
any city or illuminate works worthy of ensorcellment, traders 
who have whatever you need (or know where to get it), wiz 
ards (always Zhentarim mages) who cast spells for a high 
price, assassins for hire, and clerics of Bane who can raise the 
dead-all if you have sufficient coin to satisfy their greed. 

Nearly any service can be provided somewhere within the 
walls of Zhentil Keep for a price; however, anyone spending a 
large amount of gold, no matter what part of the city they are 
in, will likely attract the attention of one of the many power 
groups that vie for control of the city. Discretion these mat 
ters, as in any dealings in Zhentil Keep, is advised. 





74 











Observation 
platform (rcmfl 


Guest chambers 


Level 5 


Treasure 

storage 


rianshQQrn =5 
cbamhf-if 


StnrJKE 


Wvverni' nests 


Guest 

I. h.!l',l K'T. 


Level 1 


Kilehtm 


Level 3 


Magical Item and 
Informarkin Mttrags 


UlttlttgreuAd Level 


Marwhecfn 1 ! liibeirator? 


MaJ'iil'itMin'i md£pc[ 
.chamber 


& 

¦¦¦' [ 

Z! 





El 

? 










T 










1 



¦ 


























_ 
























LJ 


































1 





















v,._ 








75 




































































ZbeNfffl. Keep-Nocu 

"Let us not look at the disaster that has struck our splendid city as a had thing. Rather, let us look at this 
as a rare opportunity to rebuild Zhentil Keep the way it was meant to be: a city with a new vision, a new 
strength, and a new future." 

-Lord Orgauth, ruler of Zhentil Keep, in his first public address 


"New vision? Neio strength! New future? HA! Same old name, same old rulers, same old lies, same 
old tyranny." 

-Mendrill Belarod the Halfelven, wandering bard 

"Alas, true evil is newer truly killed. Wlwt this means for Zhentil Keep is that all of the chuff--the weak, 
the foolish, the incompetent-lost their lives. The ones who remain in the Keep are the ones who were 
ruthless and powerful enough to prevail. Zhentil Keep has undergone a refining process, giving birth to a 
purer, stronger strain of wickedness. Zhentil Keep's ivickedness did not end with its ruin. Nay, 'fa's only 
beginning." 

-Elminster of Shadowdale 



he cities that hug the windswept coasts of the Moonsea all have one thing in 
common: As the years pass, they are knocked down and rebuilt over and over 
again. Some cities, like Sulasspryn, fell and stayed down. Others, like Phlan, 
keep bouncing back in sheer defiance -or stupidity. Once again Moonsea 
renovations have been made -this time in Zhentil Keep. 


The Time Period 


T his chapter presents the Zhentil Keep that exists after the events of the end of the Year of 
the Banner (1368 DR); most places are portrayed as to their status about midway through 
the Year of the Gauntlet (1369 DR). The city has been ravaged by divine fire and an invasion 
force of giants, dragons, and humanoids because of the twisted machinations of the insane god, 
Cyric. (Told of in the "History of Zhentil Keep" chapter and the novel Prince of Lies.) These 
events are referred to as "the Cyrinishad fiasco" by Realms historians; the destruction of the 
majority of the Keep is known as "the Razing" within the Keep. The section called The Shape 
of Things to Come, near the end of this chapter, details events after the close of the Year of the 
Banner, which ended with the city under siege. Exactly when the various siege forces leave (in 
the main) can be determined by examining that section. 


RecewT EuejoTs 

T he southern section of the Keep is currently all that remains of the great city of Zhentil 
Keep. This area was long known as the Foreign Quarter of the Keep. The lords that ran the 
city acknowledged that they needed the trade of other cities and nations in the Realms, but 
wanted to make sure that these non-Zhents were easily watched, so they segregated foreigners in 
a separate section of the city, with the River Tesh forming its boundary. Access was granted by 
the two bridges that spanned the river: the Force Bridge and the Tesh Bridge. The Foreign Quar 
ter, while still fully a part of Zhentil Keep proper, and just as heavily patrolled as the larger north 
ern section, was nevertheless looked down on by native Zhents as a foreign ghetto. 

It is therefore a supreme twist of fate that the only section of the Zhentil Keep left intact 
was the section set aside for strangers. During the entire Cyrinishad fiasco, which culminated 


76 

























in the destruction of most of the Keep, anyone with any 
wisdom and the means to leave, left the city. Those who 
stayed, voluntarily or not, were either killed, left to rum 
mage in the ruins of the main city, or managed to flee to the 
southern section of the city. The flow of refugees to the For 
eign Quarter was slowed when the bridges were blown up 
by angry ore units that had served with the Zhentilar who 
felt mistreated. Still, some brave, foolish, or panicked souls 
attempted to cross the Tesh using whatever boats were 
handy. 

Terrible riots broke out at the Keep's main harbor as fran 
tic refugees stabbed each other in the back in their frenzied 
attempts to get to the few precious boats that could be 
seized. The citizens of the Keep, not exactly known as 
paragons of morality during the best of times, became posi 
tively savage in their desperate scramble for places on the 
dwindling number of boats. And gaining a seat on a water 
craft did not guarantee one's safety. The angered white 
dragons swooped down on the refugee boats and ships and in 
the harbor and blasted them with frosty breath, creating 
grotesque miniature icebergs that with the bridges' destruc 
tion drifted down to the mouth of the River Tesh and out 


into the Moonsea. Many foreign ships later stumbled across 
these tragic monuments to the horrors of the siege; one was 
rumored to have washed ashore as far west as the city of 
Phlan, its macabre cargo still frozen. 

But even with the humanoid armies and the dragons still 
lurking in the ruins of the northern section of the Keep, the 
southern section wasted no time in organizing itself into a 
fully functioning city. The surviving nobles, some Zhentilar 
officers, and the clergy of many of the temples of the Keep 
who had fled to the Foreign Quarter when the siege began 
proudly declared, once the initial onslaught was over, that 
Zhentil Keep still existed -on the southern shores of the 
Tesh. 

Ovejtvieu? 
of the Necu Keep 

I n the wake of the Razing, the Foreign Quarter of Zhen 
til Keep has been occupied by the refugees/survivors 
from the much larger northern portion of the city. Nowa 
days, when people talk about Zhentil Keep, they are talking 



The shattered remains of the Force Bridge are nozv under construction. 




77 















































about that small portion southern quarter. For all intents 
and purposes, it is Zhentil Keep. The northern part of the 
entire city is now known as "the ruins." 

Of the population of approximately 83,000 that dwelt 
within the walls of the Keep at the beginning of the Cyrin- 
ishad. fiasco, 42,000 died in the siege, about 10,000 were 
snatched from the city and transported to safer locations by 
their deities (not by Cyric, however), and about 9,000 peo 
ple fled the Keep altogether before the siege became set Fif 
teen hundred of the Zhentilar, mostly officers of rank who 
could see which way the wind was blowing, deserted and dis 
appeared to become brigands (or go into hiding in the For 
eign Quarter). The mins of the northern section of the Keep 
now house nearly 2,500 homeless and frantic refugees. The 
new Zhentil Keep -the old Keep's southern quarter -holds 
around 15,000 people. 

Structurally, the city got away with considerably less 
damage than the ruins did. The destruction of the two 
bridges (Force and Tesh) by vindictive ores did more to save 
the city than any other single act. By destroying the bridges, 
the ores inadvertently prevented the invading humanoid 
armies from crossing the Tesh and attacking the Foreign 
Quarter in full strength. 

That is not to say that the Foreign Quarter did not get 
hit. In fact, the two gates on the southernmost wall of the 
quarter had to be heavily reinforced to prevent their breach. 
The westernmost gate was eventually shut down and sealed. 
The invaders had a token southern force, which was used 
during the siege mainly to harry the walls' defenders (there 
by tying down defending units that could have been put to 
better use elsewhere) and co seal off the roads leading into 
and out of the Keep so that the Keep's citizens would starve. 
When the siege began to break up, the southern forces were 
the first to be pulled back. 

Despite its sinister reputation, the city is making a gen 
uine effort to bring in skilled people to settle the city and 
help restore it. Naturally, it helps if the new citizens have a 
moral view that is in line with the city's powers-that-be. 
Lord Orgauth, who has declared himself the lord of Zhentil 
Keep, has allocated heavy resources to rebuilding the Force 
Bridge in an effort to control river traffic and generate rev 
enue through tolls and tariffs upon this traffic. Fie wants the 
Force Bridge's main gate -the one capable of completely 
blocking off the river-repaired. His intent is not to recon 
nect the two parts of the city yet; this is only a money-mak 
ing venture at the moment. Some enterprising folk are try 
ing to set up a ferry service that allows access to the north 
ern bank of the river and back. Flowever, Lord Orgauth is 
not comfortable with the idea of a ferry just yet; the ruins are 
still too dangerous. 


Tnx&e 

Trade routes have been thrown into disarray in the wake of 
the siege. All sea traffic has come to a halt because of the 
white dragons, who seem to love using ships as target practice 
for their frost breath. A precious few fast ships manage to 
sneak into the Foreign Quarter's docks, but they cannot carry 
a great amount of cargo. The same situation applies to river 
traffic. Boats coming downriver are subjected to attack by the 
assembled humanoid forces on the north banks of the River 
Tesh, as well as by the annoying white dragons. 

All overland trade routes to points west and north (the 
Citadel of the Raven, Phlan, the land of Thar) have been 
shut down due to the siege forces. Southern routes are in 
somewhat better shape. There are considerably fewer siege 
forces on the south banks of the Tesh and outside the walls 
of the Foreign Quarter. The Red Plumes of Hillsfar enjoy 
harrying caravans headed for the new city that they inter 
cept, though they are not as effective as the siege armies to 
the north. 

Because of the situation, all prices for goods and services 
have a 50% markup until the dates indicated in the The 
Shape of Things to Come section at the end of this chapter. 
It is impossible to purchase a mount, pack animal, or horse 
or ox broken to harness in the Keep, as most of them have 
died in the siege warfare or have become stew. All other 
livestock prices have increased tenfold (unless a keyed loca 
tion states otherwise). 

Any time a PC wishes to purchase something in the Play 
er's Handbook from the Household Provisioning, Tack and 
Harness, and Miscellaneous Equipment sections, there is only 
a 50% chance that the item in question is available that day 
(unless a keyed location states otherwise). The chance for 
finding a particular item for sale increases cumulatively by 5% 
per additional day of looking, to a maximum of 85%. 

Lord Orgauth is considering minting new coins and 
imposing a tax on all foreign coinage. He is going to wait, 
though, until the Keep is back on its feet financially before 
attempting such an exclusionary action. 


The Necu Keep's Defenses 

The remains of the Zhentilar are still the foremost military 
power in the region of Zhentil Keep. In a perverse way, the 
siege was beneficial: It winnowed out the weaker fighters, 
leaving the Keep's Zhentilar garrison smaller but filled with 
expert warriors. 

The current garrison numbers about 3,000 Zhentilar 
under the command of Ulgrym (CN hm F13), a senior 
Zhentilar army captain who now holds the title of captain of 
the guard. Ulgrym continues looking for mercenary compa- 



78 










rues to bolster the army. Naturally, groups who openly follow 
good deities need not apply. 

The Zhentilar in new Zhentil Keep are responsible for 
keeping the city walls strong, protecting the city against the 
siege forces, enforcing law inside the city, and bringing cara 
vans safely into and out of the city through the Throat Gate. 
The Throat Gate, the easternmost gate along the Keep's 
southern walls, is the only gate through which one can cur 
rently enter the city. The western gate has been sealed, as it 
takes more manpower to guard a gate that can be opened. 

The Zhent navy has been almost completely destroyed. 
Most of it was blast-frozen into icebergs by the white dragon 
horde. Any vessel that remained was immediately impounded 
and used by deserters or refugees to escape up the River Tesh. 
The dock facilities in the southern section, however, man 
aged to make it through the siege almost unscathed. Lord 
Orgauth, the new ruler of Zhentil Keep (see the section on 
The Ruler, below) has sent out a call for shipwrights, sailmak- 
ers, rope-makers, and other nautical artisans, and is stockpil 
ing huge quantities of shipbuilding supplies to rebuild the 
navy (his personal special project). And now the sounds of 
pounding hammers, rasping saws, and ringing anvils echo day 
and night at the docks as the city tries to regain its sea power. 

Life )m 

The Necu Keep 

S ince the Razing, life in Zhentil Keep has changed in 
many ways. Common laborers and merchants still rise 
at dawn and quickly make their way to their shops and places 
of employment in the hopes of making a quiet living without 
attracting undue attention. However, the atmosphere of 
oppression within the Keep is not as great as before the siege. 
Everyone realizes that the main enemy of the moment is now 
rampaging through the ruins of the northern half of the city. 
There is little time for Zhentilar and members of other 
remaining power groups within the city to harass the local 
citizenry unless there is good reason. 

Average citizens eat their meals, which these days consist 
of fish, gruel, and bread made of moldy stored grain or the 
hardy cereal plants and coarser grains that grow in and 
around the Keep, wash down their tasteless meal with a 
strong beer brewed from the same coarse grain, and with 
growling stomachs, watch the roads for caravans to make it 
through the gauntlet of the siege forces and roving brigands. 
These caravans bring meat, cheese, produce, and fine wines 
and liquors-when they get through. 

While at work, most able-bodied men and women arm 
themselves with a melee weapon, such as a dagger, short 


Pizess Gawgs 

ven though press gangs are not as common as they once 
were, they do still exist. Many of them are from other cities 
along the Moonsea (such as Mulmaster and Hillsfar). Some, how 
ever, are Zhentish in origin, shanghaiing victims and sending 
them upriver to work in Teshwave. A press gang usually consists 
of an LE hm F4 leader in chain mail, armed with a club and a cut 
lass, and 2d4 LE hm F2 gang members in leather armor, armed 
with cutlasses and belaying pins (ld3 damage). Press gangs have a 
25% chance of also having a net, to better capture victims. 


sword, or club. They keep one of their eyes on their work, 
and the other on the spire of the Hall of Rulership. If a black 
flag is unfurled, it means the siege forces have finally turned 
their attention to the southern portion of the Keep, and 
every arm that can heft a weapon is needed at the walls. 
Thus far, the black banner has not flown, and gods-willing, 
it never will. 

Work winds down at sunset, and the citizens scurry back 
to their homes. Press gangs and angry, drunken Zhentilar are 
no longer the problem they were before the siege, but all 
manner of odd creatures are now being encountered on the 
streets after dusk. Whether it is to avoid a rogue patrol of 
humanoids on a looting spree (inevitably followed by a 
melee courtesy of a Zhentilar patrol catching up with them) 
or some undead wandering out of the city's sewers or only 
remaining graveyard, citizens walk quicker toward their 
homes the darker the sky gets at the day's end. 

Inns and the taverns in the Keep stay open until several 
hours past midnight, and the Zhents are still a hard-drinking 
lot. Patrons stagger out in groups for safety's sake when the 
taverns close. Street thievery has increased dramatically 
(even during the day), with thieves taking not only a victim's 
money pouch, but also his boots, cloak, backpack, and the 
chicken he was carrying under his arm. 

Temples hold services frequently, as each religion does its 
best to accumulate a greater number of worshipers and new 
converts than its competitors in this new era of greater reli 
gious tolerance. Religions that formerly had no established 
permanent meet hall in Zhentil Keep have dared to set up 
shrines or temples, although the public worship Mystra is for 
bidden by the Keep's new ruler. Lord Orgauth. Services are 
well attended, and many Zhents go to multiple temples, just 
to cover their bases in these troubled times. Cyric's new 
temple is the only exception in this; his worship has dropped 
off drastically, for understandable reasons, and his clergy have 
to endure considerable derision, hostility, and even physical 
violence from the citizenry when they leave Iris new temple. 






79 















ZbewOsb Slawg 

ach city has its own special slang. The following is a partial 
list of terms and phrases commonly used by Zhents of all 
walks of life in the post-Razing era. 

Artists: Wizards. 

The Charmer: Since Mystra's name is still a forbidden word, 
the citizens use this term instead. 

Converts: Zhentilar deserters who decided not to fight for 
Cyric during the Razing. 

The Eclipse: Derisive term for Cyric, the Dark Sun. Adopted 
when he failed to save the city during the Razing. 

The Flow: Casual name for the Tesh River. 

Good News: Slang term for a supply caravan that has entered 
the city; used especially during the Horse Stew Days. 

Himself or Hisself: Lord Orgauth, ruler of the Keep. Mostly 
used by the lower classes. 

Horse Stew Days: Called this because the citizens began 
stealing horses and eating them when food became scarce. See 
the Lean Months. 

Innocents: Anyone who comes to Zhentil Keep unaware that 
it has been razed. 

To Kiss: To seduce information out of someone. 

The Lean Months: The three months following the siege, 
where supplies became extremely scarce. 

Mask: A scam. 

The Pile: The dump, located outside the city. 

The Razing: The destruction of most of Zhentil Keep by white 
dragons, frost giants, and humanoid armies. Also applies to the 
months of the siege that followed. 

The Rookery: Street nickname for the Citadel of the Raven. 

Sodchuckers: Dalesfolk. 

Take Out the Garbage: Kill someone and deposit the body in 
the dump. 

Zhentish Desserts: Gruesome nickname given to the frozen 
corpses that washed up during the siege after battles with the 
white dragons. 

Zhentish Handshake: Walking up to someone, whacking 
them upside the head with a club, and taking their goods. 

To Zik: To stab. 


OTy Scewes 

Zhentil Keep is a busy place, and the likelihood of meeting 
someone of passing interest is great. Even though a short walk 
from an inn to a smithy's shop may result in a PC seeing 
dozens of people, there are always a few encounters that seem 
to stand out. The following are a series of tableaux that flesh 
out the trips a PC takes, add some color, or even provide pos 
sible adventure starting points. PCs should be allowed to 


interact with them as little or as much as they wish. 

Caravan of Fun: A caravan has arrived from Corrnyr, 
loaded with goods. It narrowly escaped an attack from a band 
of humanoids. The caravan is overflowing with items to buy, 
trade, sell, and its members are a font of rumors. 

Construction: A group of average citizens are busy 
rebuilding a house. There is a 10% chance that ld3 wor 
shipers of Gond are here as well, helping in the construction. 

Diseased Lepers: A flock of 2d4 lepers scrambles up to 
the party and begs for alms. If someone casts a cure disease on 
them, there is a 40% chance of attracting a crowd of 4dl0 
beggars and sick people, all wanting the same thing, and a 
40% chance of attracting the notice of jealous clergy from a 
different faith than the caster. 

Dubious Vendor: The smell of hot spices fills the air as a 
vendor sells strips or chunks of indeterminate meat on a stick. 
The meat does not look very recognizable -or maybe it is all 
too distinctive, and that is the unsettling part. There does 
seem to be an absence of rats on this street. 

Funeral Procession: The funeral of a Zhentilar soldier 
winds down the streets, presided over by a cleric of Kelemvor 
(LN hm C5 of Kelemvor). This is a good opportunity for the 
PCs to be exposed to this new faith and its clergy. 

Madman: The awful events of the Razing has unhinged 
many psyches. Many mentally disturbed people still manage 
to function, but others are raving lunatics. Most of the psy 
choses evidenced are paranoia or delusional behavior. There 
is a 5% chance that what is mistaken for insanity is actually a 
psionic wild talent. 

Missing Persons: An old man staggers up to the PCs and 
clutches the collar of the lead PC, begging the group to help 
him find his wife, who has been missing since the Razing. 

Religious Argument: Priests from two competing reli 
gions in the city are squared off, arguing about which god is 
greatest. There is a 20% chance that the argument escalates 
to blows and/or spells. 

Rumormonger: This can be anything from an old gossipy 
woman, to a raving prophet of doom, to a bard who wants to 
be the center of attention. 

Sneak!: A young woman in a long cloak carries a suspi 
cious large bundle slung limply over her shoulder. After look 
ing this way and that, she scurries off. If covertly watch, she is 
seen to open a sewer grating and descend into the depths of 
the sewers. 

Street Performer: The performer could be a bard, a jug 
gler, an acrobat, or a mime. She or he is watched by ld20-l 
onlookers, and the crowd may (55% chance) have attracted 
the attention of a pickpocket. If a pickpocket is present, the 
perfonner may (20% chance) be taking a kickback to serve as 
a distraction. 










The Whipping Boy: A young teenage boy, obviously 
cradling some stolen loot, has been tackled to the ground 
and is now being whipped by two angry priestesses of Lovi- 
atar. 

Yuck: Each PC has a 20% chance of getting doused with 
wash water (or worse) that a housewife hurls out the win 
dow of her third-story dwelling. 

Yuck Again: Five riders on heavy war horses gallop 
through the streets, whipping people, and yelling, "Move 
aside, we have pressing business with Lord Orgauth!" The 
PCs get splashed with street mud. Each rider is a mercenary 
NE hm F7. 

Zealous Watch: A group of four Zhentilar of the city 
watch are beating up a man who wears the symbol of Cyric. 

Polv&k Grioups )n> 
the Neuj Keep 

hile the Orthodox Banites had dropped from the 
ranks of the movers and shakers in Zhentil Keep years 
before the Razing, other power groups in the new Keep have 
just recently come into existence or collapsed in the chaos of 
recent events. 

The Handful of Coins: The ranks of this unofficial self- 
help merchant group were decimated in initial attacks on 
the Keep; the lucky members fled, and unlucky ones died. 
With the easing of the siege and the gradual resumption of 
normal trade, this group shows signs of becoming a mer 
chants' guild to be reckoned with. The lords no longer pos 
sess a stranglehold on the lucrative trade opportunities in 
Zhentil Keep, and the Coins are working with Lord Orgauth 
to set up long-term trade development goals and stable for 
eign trade agreements. 

Harpers: The Harper presence in Zhentil Keep is still 
small. There is one main Harper spy in Zhentil Keep these 
days: a woman named Kornah the Crazy (NG hf R9). (Kor- 
nah's house is number 68 on the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 
DR) color map.) As a deep-cover agent of the Harpers, Kor 
nah is fanatical about keeping her secret. She is not above 
drawing her weapon against good-aligned folk if her secret is 
threatened, though she does her best not to kill such people. 
No Harper enters the city without Kornah finding out. 

Kornah, a muscular woman with an eyepatch on her left 
eye and a wild mane of blonde hair, has been living in the 
city for 10 of her 36 years. Her vocation is that of city guide, 
and she hires herself out as one for 20 gp a day. She knows its 
politics, its history, everything. Her escape from the slaugh 
terhouse that was the northern part of the city is a testament 
to her survival skills. In fact, she even helped a few inno 


cents in the process - an admirable thing, considering the 
number of people who helped others could be counted on 
one hand. 

Kornah dresses in leather armor embellished with sharp 
metal studs. She is a superb actress, and plays the role of a 
swaggering, slightly crazed, bloodshed-loving swordswoman 
with a perverse sense of humor to the hilt. In reality, she is a 
calm, refined woman with a very dry sense of humor and 
average looks. However, she is a dedicated Harper, and is 
willing to make sacrifices in the pursuit of her duties to that 
organization. 

The Naug-orls: The naug-orls used to serve as the eyes 
and the ears of the lords of the Keep and the unofficial spy 
network of the Zhentarim in Zhentil Keep. However, with 
the lords are nearly all dead, and most of the rogues of the 
naug-orls in little better shape, the organization has scat 
tered to the four winds. Their leader, Shounra Shalassalar 
a.k.a. Night Fingers (CN hf T14; Dex 18, Int 16, Cha 17), 
still lives, plying her cover trade of pleasure queen (head 
professional escort) of one of the new Keep's festhalls. She 
aspires to rebuild her organization to its former heights no 
matter what it takes or how long. 

The Naug-adar: The naug-adar were minor Zhentarim 
mages that roamed the city's dark streets in earlier days. Their 
numbers suffered serious attrition during the siege, and they 
have all fled to other Zhentarim bases or are dead. 

Thieves' Guilds: Thieves' guilds are forbidden by law in 
Zhentil Keep, but exist nonetheless. None has achieved the 
prominence of the naug-orls' former organization since the 
Razing. Lord Orgauth allows a small number of thieves 
(about 25) to ply their trade inside the new Keep's laws with 
his knowledge and approval in return for spying in some of 
the inns and other public places. He does not believe any of 
these to belong to a guild (some do), and each meets with 
him or his agents individually. (The largest hidden thieves' 
guild is the Keep is located at number 76 on the Zhentil 
Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) 

Wizards' Guild: Zhentil Keep has always been a gather 
ing place for practitioners of the Art, and a little thing like 
the destruction of most of the city did not altered this. Any 
wizard who had the capability of teleporting from the siege 
to a personal hideaway did so. The remaining wizards pooled 
their resources and established themselves in the southern 
portion of the city. Laying claim to an old tower and restor 
ing it with spells, they christened their new building the 
Tower of the Art. (The Tower of the Art is number 75 on 
the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) 

The wizards have formed themselves into a loose guild for 
their mutual survival and prosperity. The Tower is run by a 
mage named Thagdal (LE hm Ml 6), a native Zhent who sup- 






m= 



81 












ports Lord Orgauth's rule. (Placing a native Zhent sympathet 
ic to his leadership in charge of the guild was Lord Orgauth's 
requirement for allowing the guild to continue to existence.) 
Thagdal is an opportunist, but his love of the Art is genuine. 
He runs a tight organization, a talent that comes naturally to 
one of his alignment. Thagdal plays both sides of the fence; he 
is loyal to Orgauth and the city, but he also has a relationship 
with High Lord Manshoon of the Black Network. 

At the Tower, mages of all levels, alignments, and schools 
have a place to rest their heads, study spells in peace, and 
research new magics. A modest-sized library and two small 
laboratories are taking shape, gaining equipment with each 
passing week. Almost all wizards are welcome, but the pres 
ence of foreigners is duly reported to Lord Orgauth as a mat 
ter of course. Former naug-adar are forbidden from setting 
foot in the Tower or associating with the Guild. 

The talk in the city is that the Tower of the Art is the 
only place in the Keep where people can say the name of 
Mystra without losing their heads -literally. While this is 
indeed true, guest mages are wiser to not display any symbols 
of Mystra. Officially, any devotions to her are dedicated to 
Asuth instead. 

The Zhentarim: Lord Manshoon relocated the head 
quarters of the Black Network from Zhentil Keep to the 
Citadel of the Raven; however, it would be a grave mistake 
to assume that the Black Network abandoned the Keep 

Wizards' Guild Rules 

ach mage that joins the new wizards' guild housed in the 
Tower of the Art in Zhentil Keep must abide by the rules of 
the guild. A fine balancing act by the guild's members between 
devotion to the Art and the city allows the guild to continue to 
exist. 

. 1 . My loyalties are to the Art, the Guild, myself, and the Keep, 
in that order. 

i I will accept all practitioners of the Art, regardless of their 
background or loyalties. 

j. I will honor and venerate Mystra in private always and in 
public when possible. 

Secrecy always is the law; none may know what we do, for 
knowledge is power. 

Inventing or investigating new manifestations of the Art is 
the highest calling one can pursue; this activity must be car 
ried out over all else, if the opportunity arises. 

,j E I will defend the city if attacked, taking orders only from the 
master of the guild or the ruling lord of the city. 

I will aid fellow guild members if they ask for assistance. 

The ranks of the guild must be kept pure; recommendations 
for membership shall be given only to the best and brightest 
mages. 


entirely. Manshoon left behind one of his lower-ranking 
assistants, a wizard named Nimbaud the Magnificent (LE hf 
M8), a tall, gangly young man with darting eyes and fingers 
that are always moving. Nimbaud, anxious to win Man 
shoon's favor, volunteered to remain in Zhentil Keep at the 
head of a small conclave of Zhentarim. Nimbaud's allegiance 
is a matter of public record. In fact, the Black Network points 
to the wizard and Iris staff as proof that the Zhentarim have 
not abandoned the Keep in its hour of need. 

As anyone with a shred of wisdom knows, the de 
struction of Zhentil Keep and the reduction of Cyric's pow 
ers did little to diminish the Black Network. Nestled in the 
safety of the Citadel of the Raven, Lord Manshoon and his 
cohorts watch as Zhentil Keep is rebuilt by the hard work of 
the people who survived the siege and remained at the 
Keep. Once these hard-working people restore Zhentil Keep 
to its former glory, the Network will swoop back in and 
regain control of is birthplace. 

The RuLeR 

T he only major member of the Council of Lords that 
ruled Zhentil Keep who has surfaced since the destruc 
tion of most of the city is Lord Orgauth. He has set himself 
up as "Ruler Absolute and Defender of Zhentil Keep." The 
other two known surviving lords are Lord Payr'adar, when has 
reestablished his festhall in the southern section of the city, 
and Lord Halaster, who owned many establishment in the 
Foreign Quarter. Both men now rule the Keep alongside 
Orgauth, though in truth they simply nod their heads at 
whatever Orgauth suggests. 

Because Lord Orgauth is the only major noble whose res 
idence is in the Foreign Quarter, his opulent mini-fortress 
escaped destruction, and he escaped death. A small tort of 
ancient construction near his home has been reopened and 
refurbished, and it now serves as Orgauth's seat of power and 
the center of Zhentil Keep's government. It has been re 
named the Hall of Rulership. (Lord Orgauth's residence is 
number 54 on the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map, 
and the Hall of Rulership is number 91.) 

Most of the other lords of Zhentil Keep died in the 
bloody first night of the siege of the city and the conflagra 
tion surrounding the destruction of the temple of Cyric. 
(Some were saved by Manshoon, who teleported a few lords 
he felt he could use later to the Citadel of the Raven, how 
ever, their fate has not yet been revealed to the citizens of 
Zhentil Keep.) Orgauth's story is that only his abilities, 
honed by years of military service, allowed him to avoid the 
same horrible fate that befell his fellow lords. Anyone in 
Zhentil Keep (or elsewhere) who keeps track of such matters 




82 














accepted Orgauth's statements as fact, having no reason to 
doubt him. 

In an effort to get the city back on its feet, Orgauth has 
worked with the surviving Zhentilar forces to shore up defens 
es, reopen trade routes, and maintain order within the city 
walls. Thus far, the defenses have indeed been strengthened, 
and at least a few caravans manage to make it past the few 
siege forces that exist south of the city. To the average citizen, 
however, it seems that the Keep is slowly pulling itself togeth 
er. Say what they will about Lord Orgauth's methods or 
demeanor, no one can deny that he has gotten results. One 
wonders what these same average citizens would say if they 
knew that Lord Orgauth was not himself these days. 

The truth is, Lord Orgauth did die in the siege. He died 
just inside his front door of wounds he took in fighting his 
way back to his family from the northern part of the city, 
where he was when the siege began. However, a mage friend 
of the lord had apartments in Orgauth's manor, and within 
one of those rooms was a greater baatezu-a pit fiend. The 
pit fiend, named Abarax, had been trapped for two months 
in the mage's summoning circle. During the siege, a lucky 
blast of white dragon's frost breath rocked Orgauth's manor, 


blast-froze the mage, and ruined the circle of summoning 
that bound Abarax to the spot. 

Freed, the enraged pit fiend's first thoughts were to 
avenge itself upon the mage, Lord Orgauth, all who dwelt in 
Orgauth's manor, every living creature in the neighborhood, 
and the entire Foreign Quarter of the city, in that order. 
However, his anger rapidly cooled when he saw the mage 
(who had been literally rapidly cooled, mind you) dead on 
his feet. As he looked carefully around the manor, he dis 
covered that Orgauth's entire household was dead, includ 
ing the lord himself. Once Abarax took stock of the situa 
tion and realized what was happening to Zhentil Keep, he 
devised a plan. He would take the shape of Orgauth and 
assume control of the city. 

Thus, a battered, bloodied Lord Orgauth made quite a 
show of staggering into the Foreign Quarter of the city 
before the bridges blew. Once there, he quickly rallied oth 
ers to his side. Since chaos reigned in the city, everyone was 
desperate for some order, for a figure of authority to tell them 
(threateningly, if need be) what they should be doing. It was 
a very small thing for Orgauth to declare himself absolute 
ruler in the confusion of the siege, and his commanding 



Lady Desmonda and Lord Orgauth face Zhentil Keep's bright new future together. 





m= 































presence and the large personal bodyguard that the true 
Orgauth had kept allowed him to back his claim. (For more 
on Lord Orgauth's bodyguard, see the NPC description of 
Lord Orgauth in the "Hall of Knaves" chapter.) 

In order to keep up appearances, Abarax cast a gate soon 
after his declaration of rulership and brought forth a lesser 
baatezu, an erinyes. This erinyes has assumed the identity of 
Desmonda, a courtesan of minor note who disappeared in 
the confusion of the siege, though her true name Eshaeris. 
To explain their association. Lord Orgauth has revealed that 
he had been discreetly keeping company with Desmonda 
even before his loving wife and family perished in the siege. 
(Such infidelity is a common thing among the lords of 
Zhentil Keep, and this lent even more credence to the pit 
fiend's cover story.) Despite the fact that the city is in such a 
disarray that social gatherings are not top priority, the cou 
ple have made special efforts to be seen around the city. The 
reaction to their attendance has been widespread envy, ad 
miration, and fear, as their very presence is powerful, attrac 
tive, yet instinctively unsettling. 

Even though Orgauth is the absolute ruler of the Keep, he 
enjoys keeping up the appearance that Zhentil Keep is a city 
ruled by a committee. Once a month, he convenes a meeting 
of the influential movers and shakers, called the Rulemeet, at 
which he gets reports and sets policy. These meetings are 
attended by Lord Orgauth, Lady Desmonda ("lady" is a cour 
tesy title here), Thagdal of the Tower of the Art, Fornault 
Blacksun of Cyric, Captain of the Guard Ulgrym, Nimbaud 
the Magnificent of the Black Network, and Lords Halaster 
and Payr'adar. Everyone leaves the meetings thinking that 
they have contributed greatly to the governing and profitable 
reconstruction of the city, only to find out later that things 
have not changed a whit. The magics of the two baatezu mud 
dle the minds of the participants, making them think they are 
actually helping to run the affairs of the city, when they are 
really just agreeing to whatever the baatezu say (and even 
coming up with good rationalizations for obeying) 

Faith 5 

Of the Netu Keep 

S ince the Cyrinishad incident, religious life in Zhentil 
Keep has gone topsy-turvy. All of the temples in what 
is now the ruins were destroyed, and the faithful were spirit 
ed away to safety by their respective deities. Each religion's 
clergy has since returned to Zhentil Keep to rebuild. Each 
priesthood realizes that with Cyricism having lost its iron 
grip on the citizens, there is now a chance to gain a greater 
foothold for their respective gods. 


Cyric: The worship of Cyric still goes on in what is left of 
Zhentil Keep, although it has declined considerably from its 
former height. A new temple dedicated to Cyric, called Twi 
light Hall, has opened. (Twilight Hall is number 61 on the 
Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) The church's offi 
cial position about the Razing is that Cyric would have 
helped Zhentil Keep in its hour of need, but was unfairly 
prevented from doing so by the petty whims of the other 
gods. The new high priest is a man named Fornault Black- 
sun (LE hm C14 of Cyric), a beady-eyed, pointy-chinned; 
always-smirking man who actually relishes the challenge of 
rebuilding Cyric's power base in Zhentil Keep. He is aided 
16 underpriests and lay brethren. 

Bane/Xvim: The worship of Bane has plummeted to an 
all-time low. Any worshipers who had hoped that Bane 
would step in to show the failed Cyric "how it's done" were 
severely disappointed. In addition, with the advent of Xvim, 
most Banites feel that if they cannot have their old god 
back, his son is the next best thing. Rumors holds that Fzoul 
Chembryl himself has decided to take up the worship of 
Xvim, and may be planning on wresting control of the 
Xvimist cult from its present leader, Xana (LE hf P14 of 
Xvim, formerly of Bane). 

Xvim's worshipers meet in secret in tunnels and cata 
combs under the city; they have no formal shrine or temple 
aboveground yet. Xvim has only recently ascended from 
quasi-power to lesser power, which is quite a large step 
upward for him. Xvim's worshipers conduct secret rituals, 
undertake quiet proselytizing, and kidnap strangers in order 
to feed their fledgling god's appetite for life forces. 

Xvim's cult has to grow stronger and larger before it dares 
to try and carve a spot amidst the stronger religions. The 
worshipers of Xvim are especially wary of the clerics of 
Cyric, who would like nothing more than to obliterate any 
legacy of Bane at all, including his son. 

Kelemvor: While Kelemvor has no shrine or temple as 
yet in Zhentil Keep, his clerics have begun to be seen walk 
ing the streets of the Keep and intermittently tending the 
South Cemetery, where they are trying to eliminate the 
undead infestation that plagues the cemetery. 

Loviatar: The Palace of Sweet Pain is the new temple 
devoted to Loviatar. It is attended by High Torturelord 
Ulamyth Quantor (LE hm C17 of Loviatar) and 14 priests 
and priestesses. Torturelord Ulamyth is one of the few mem 
bers of the clergy not removed from the city by his or her 
deity who survived to escape to the Foreign Quarter. (The 
Palace of Sweet Pain is number 65 on the Zhentil Keep 
(Post-1368 DR) color map.) He bears a great many new 
scars as souvenirs of his escape experience; they testify to his 
ability to survive and endure great pain. 


84 










Malar: The Malarites have taken over the old Leather- 
crafters' Guild building in the Foreign Quarter. Their 
temple is called the Lodge of the Great Hunt. It is under the 
control of Huntmaster Baerdeth Malagar (CE hm P16 of 
Malar), who is attended by 12 specialty priests. Huntmaster 
Baerdeth was high priest of the former temple of Zhentil 
Keep, the High House of the Hunt, which was destroyed in 
the Razing. (The Lodge of the Great Hunt is number 66 on 
the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) 

Mystra: The worship of Mystra, goddess of magic, is 
expressly forbidden by law. In fact, merely possessing of one 
of her holy symbols is grounds for imprisonment and seizure 
of all personal goods. 

Tempus: Battlehall, the temple of Tempus, is one of the 
few structures that existed before the siege. The temple is 
overseen by Battlemaster Bladreth Crackbone (CN hm C15 
of Tempus), with eight clerics as assistants. Tempus has 
gained greater prominence during the siege since the sol 
diers defending the city need a god who aids them in battle. 
(Battlehall is number 57 on the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 
DR) color map.) 

Tymora: The only organized casino in the new Zhentil 
Keep, Tymora's Holy Hall of Good Fortune and Casino, dou 
bles as a shrine devoted to (obviously) Tymora. Each different 
game of chance is also incorporated as a separate church litur 
gy. The entire complex is overseen by Lucklady Demetria For- 
tunato (CG hf C14 of Tymora) and her 24 cleric assistants. 
The powers-that-be in Zhentil Keep view the Holy Hall of 
Good Fortune with suspicion, but have decided that this new 
version of Zhentil Keep needs all the luck it can get. Still, 
there are always at least two spies in the Holy Hall at all times. 
(Tymora's Holy Hall of Good Fortune and Casino is number 
58 on the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) 

Umberlee: The Jagged Rocks is the colorful name of the 
new temple of Umberlee, overseen by Stormmistress (CE hf 
C12), with six priestesses as helpers. (The Jagged Rocks is 
number 64 on the Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map.) 

Other Deities: Other deities are worshiped within the 
walls of the new Keep, but have no permanent public 
shrines or temples. Most Faerunian human deities not men 
tioned specifically above have a scant handful of worshipers 
in the Keep; many nonhuman deities, especially the dwarf, 
ore, goblinkin, and drow deities, have more than that -per 
haps a dozen or so -but keep a low profile, for the most part. 

Bult&hjg Key 

T his section describes the prominent buildings on the large 
color city map of post-1368 DR Zhentil Keep. The vast 
majority of buildings, which have not been detailed, are simple 


dwellings. Note that most houses are multistory dwellings, each 
with a separate apartment arrangement for each family. 

5 4. Loizt> Ok gauTb's Complex 

This multitowered structure contains a vast subterranean 
complex as well. It is sometimes called Orgauth Manse, and 
was once the home of a very wealthy Thayan ambassador. In 
fact, most of the exotic furnishings remained intact. The 
interior is quite opulent, suitable for the ruler of a city. The 
subterranean complex, however, is something out of a night 
mare, with dank cells, torture chambers, summoning rooms, 
and a fixed gate to Baator. The air is damp and cold, with 
the stink of corruption. The pit fiend Abarax, who masquer 
ades as Lord Orgauth, has given strict orders that no one is 
to enter the complex except by his invitation (ostensibly for 
security reasons). 

The entire complex radiates a protection from good spell, 
and the walls have been reworked so that no one can enter or 
leave by any means save the front door, back door, secret tun 
nel, or the planar gate. However, extraplanar creatures may 
still be magically summoned by Abarax and his erinyes 
cohort. The tunnel under the complex leads to the adjacent 
Hall of Rulership, as well as to a spot outside the city wall, in 
the far southeast comer, hidden by a small patch of woods. A 
half-dozen Zhentilar (LE hm & hf F5) in chain mail and 
shield, armed with long swords, patrol outside the complex, 
but even they are forbidden from entering without express 
permission from Orgauth himself. 

5 5. The Tesh Inn 

Once considered the most lavish inn of the Foreign Quarter, 
the Tesh Inn has managed to survive the Razing, with some 
minor changes. The inn's business and entertaining capabil 
ities were severely hit during the Razing, as goods were hard 
to come by due to the siege forces' blockade of the city. 
However, it managed to muddle through with minimal 
inconvenience. The inn's configuration has not changed, 
still possessing 44 rooms, the most of any inn in Zhentil 
Keep. It is still the most extravagant resort the city has to 
offer. A traveler can expect to pay up to 30 gp for an evening 
of entertainment, lodging, and meals. Naturally, the inn 
accommodates many definitions of "entertainment," as dic 
tated by the customer. The Tesh is still owned and operated 
by Council Lord Payr'adar. 

The Tesh serves as the new city's most prominent fes- 
thall, with dozens of exotic southern-bred women whose 
beauty entices any man. The Zhentarim's presence is no 
longer as great as it once was, though there are still some 
women who continue to seduce their clients for informa 
tion, to be sold to the Black Network. 












5 6. Rale's ApoTheca^y 

A stranger to this city may wonder why the houses adjacent 
to this establishment are empty. Anyone in the neighborhood 
can easily supply the answer: Rak Alumeater (CN grn W(I)9) 
is a lima tic who works with combustible materials. All of his 
neighbors have moved away, tired of the rancid smells and the 
occasional explosion. 

Rak is a crazed gnome illusionist who also happens to be 
a proficient alchemist. He's a fast talking, long-winded, 
wild-eyed gnome whose hair has turned green and frizzy due 
to chemical exposure. He whisks around his shop, eyes dart 
ing to and fro, his entire demeanor best described as manic. 
Just as hatters go mad after working with mercury, many 
alchemists become slightly erratic due to overexposure to 
exotic chemical fumes. (Rak has a cousin in Ravens Bluff 
who is also an alchemist, and suffers from the same afflic 
tion.) There is little doubt that Rak is mad, but in matters 
of alchemy, chemistry, and medicine his prowess equals, 
and sometimes surpasses, that of archmages of great power. 
(In fact, Rak can determine the type of a potion just by 
sniffing it [85% chance]). 

Rak makes ends meet by running the only decent apothe 
cary in the small city. When it comes to spell components, 
alchemical materials, or medicines of any sort, Rak has it all: 
spell components, medicines, poultices, acids, bases, folk 
remedies, and chemicals. (The apothecary has become a 
favored haunt of the new mage guild.) What many do not 
know is that Rak also stocks a full supply of poisons, though 
he never mentions this. If anyone thinks to ask him about 
poisons, Rak asks about poison type desired, etc., trying to feel 
out the customer as to the amount of money she or he has to 
spend and the desired effects for the poison. 

The gnome also pays good money for monster parts that 
are required to make various potions. There is a 40% chance 
that Rak has ldlO potions for sale (consult page 135 of the 
Dungeon Master(r) Guide, Table 89). He also purchases 
potions from adventurers, using his identify spell to verify 
their true nature. 

Rak boasts a fully equipped alchemy lab in the back of 
the shop. He lives in an absolute pigsty of an apartment, 
located on the second floor. 

Rak has little concern about Zhentish politics. All he 
cares about are his potions and his research. 

57. BamehaLL 

Battlehall, a temple devoted to Tempus, does a brisk business. 
It is mn by Battlemaster Bladreth Crackbone (CN hm C15 of 
Tempus), with the aid of eight priestly assistants. The edifice 
looks like a miniature fortress. High on the battlements. 


spears are wedged into the stones, each one with the severed 
head of a humanoid invader impaled upon it. The call to wor 
ship is a loud clashing noise made by a priest slamming an 
oversized mace against a large brass shield. 

The interior of the temple is decorated with bloodied 
armor, broken weapons, and the occasional gruesome sou 
venir of one of the invaders. The smell of blood and oiled 
metal permeates the room. In the chambers behind the 
main sanctuary are a weapons forge, several rooms for train 
ing fighters, and a meditation room. The Shelves of Honor lie 
under the temple: graves carved into the solid subterranean 
granite. Here, heroes who worshiped Tempus and died hero 
ically in battle (usually vastly outnumbered and killing most 
of the opposition before falling) are buried. It is said that the 
spirit of anyone buried in the Shelves of Honor goes on to 
become a favored warrior in Tempus's halls in the afterlife. 

Tempus gained huge prominence during the Razing, as the 
Zhentilar are convinced that his power helped them in dri 
ving away the siege forces. Worship of Tempus is currently at 
an all-time high, especially among Zhentilar and mercenaries. 
Bladreth has seized this opportunity to portray Tempus as a 
reliable god who gives his faithful the power to annihilate 
their foes. While he does not mention Cyric by name, 
Bladreth sculpts his words into finely tuned attacks on Cyric's 
power, showing his faithful that, compared to mighty Tempus, 
Cyric is nothing. 

Bladreth is a bit of a fanatic for battle, and couches all of 
his statements in military terminology. 

5 8. TycnomiS Holey Hall of 
Good FortXubJ& ak>o Caslwo 

Of all the temples and shrines in Zhentil Keep, none is 
more outrageous then the Holy Hall of Good Fortune. The 
huge, three-story palatial mansion, with large windows and 
ornate stonework, is both a place of worship and a gambler's 
paradise. It is run by Lucklady Demetria Fortunato (CG hf 
C14 of Tymora) and her 24 clerical assistants. Demetria is a 
vivacious, outgoing, clever priestess with a short attention 
span. Some describe her as a "chaotic force of nature." She 
is well aware that she runs a temple whose alignment is dia 
metrically opposed to the philosophies of Zhentil Keep, but 
she just shrugs and says that her luck has held thus far; she 
feels that it will continue to do so, and she seems to be quite 
right. 

The temple portion is located in the East Wing, and has 
been radically altered to fit the needs of the worshipers of 
Lady Luck. It has been consecrated and bears protection from 
evil and protection from undead spells. Services are held each 
morning at three hours after sunrise, then again at three 
hours after sundown. 






86 











The casino occupies the West Wing and the Central 
Manor. It is open all day and night, inviting gamblers to play 
every conceivable card game, dice game, and other game of 
chance imaginable. The facility also boasts two bars and a 
kitchen/ dining hall. A portion of the upstairs West Wing is a 
dance floor, with constant musical talent providing the 
incentive to dance the night away. 

The casino has but one defender, but that defender is 
quite enough. Graddis, a human male, is actually a werebear. 
A converted worshiper of Tymora, Graddis wanders the casi 
no in human form, making sure that all is well. At the first 
sign of trouble, he shapechanges into a massive bear and 
approaches the troublemakers. If they are simply being dis 
ruptive, he grabs them in his massive paws and hurls them 
out the door, but if they have used weapons or otherwise 
injured the clientele, he attacks with intent to kill. In these 
instances, he is joined by ld4 clerics of Tymora, all of at least 
3rd level. 

The Holy Hall of Good Fortune is certainly a place of 
laughter, love, luck, and just sheer enjoyment of life, some 
thing which Zhentil Keep sorely needs. It is an extremely 
popular place, well loved and heavily frequented by citizens 
and visitors alike. Of course, for those same reasons the rulers 
of the city absolutely hate the place, and would like nothing 
better than to see it tom down and utterly destroyed, with all 
of the clerics roasted alive for good measure. However, 
Tymora's hand rests heavily on the Hall, and even Lord 
Orgauth is loath to attempt any action against the place and 
the priests, lest he encounter some "bad luck" and his mas 
querade be undone. For now, it is just not worth the risk. 

Orgauth and his cohorts actually have attempted small- 
scale, discreet forays with the intent to commit minor acts of 
sabotage, but the most amazing bits of dumb luck always 
seem to foil their best laid plans. It is as if the clergy and the 
building itself have charmed lives (and in a way, they do). 

There has been some discussion among the clergy of 
Tymora as to why the influence of good luck cannot or will 
not spread outside the Hall's environs. Many of the clerics feel 
that the average citizen in Zhentil Keep is suffering enough. 
Could perhaps, Tymora grant them some good luck as well? 
The problem is that Tymora refuses to intervene in the 
province of another god. She is more than aware that Cyric 
still has a special hold on Zhentil Keep, and she also senses a 
lingering presence of Bane about the city. (In fact, she senses 
Xvim, Bane's son.) Tymora has made a conscious decision not 
to spread her influence beyond the Hall-for now. 

S 9. The House of ComfonT 

Located almost at the exact center of the city, the House of 
Comfort fits somewhere between the Pride of Zhentil Keep 


and the Defiant Gesture in terms of accommodations. This 
two-story structure has 28 spartan, clean, functional rooms 
that tend to run a little on the cold side. The food is simple 
but filling (when there is food to be had, of course). Rooms 
cost 5 gp per night, meals cost 2 gp, a mug of good ale costs 3 
sp, and a hot bath costs 1 gp. There are limited stable facilities 
available for 2 gp per night. 

The House of Comfort is run by Maradad (LN hf FI), a 
spinster with a severe expression, her mouth turned down in 
a perpetual frown, her nose like that of a hawk. She is cool 
ly polite to all, though she mutters under her breath when 
she disapproves of something. Maradad is a snoop and a gos 
sip whose favorite expression is "I run a respectable place 
here, so there had better not be any horseplay or I'll toss ya 
all out the door!" It is a miracle that no one has chopped off 
her head by now. 

Her staff consists of two serving girls, Anna and Lise, and a 
young man named Anderis, who does most of the chores. 
Maradad slaps Anderis often, and whacks the hands of any 
clients who dare paw the girls. 

60. The CrzypTs 

The Crypts is the nickname given to the constabulary 
because the cells are located below ground. The building 
used to be a military detention center, with crypts below for 
the quick burial of prisoners. Currently, it serves as the head 
quarters of city security. It is staffed at all times by at least 24 
Zhentilar of 3rd level, commanded by a 5th-level fighter. 
There is even a small barracks attached to the building. 

Petty offenses are tried here by a mage named Grisk (LE 
hm M7), presiding as judge. Justice is swift and usually 
involves a heavy fine for offenses such as drunk and disor 
derly conduct. More serious offenses are currently judged by 
Lord Orgauth himself, although he has voiced the idea of 
appointing a magistrate soon. 

61. T(JU)i)ghT Hail- 

Thanks to the Razing, the temple of Cyric has fallen on 
some hard times. The new temple, called Twilight Hall, is 
run by Fomault Blacksun (LE hm C14 of Cyric) and his 16 
acolytes. Services are held every morning at an hour before 
sunrise, and every evening at an hour after sunset. A special 
service is held at midnight once per week. Extremely special 
services/feasts are held during solar eclipses. 

Twilight Hall is a squat structure of blackest granite, with 
Cyric's symbol hung over copper double doors, which provide 
access to the sanctuary. The complex includes a parsonage for 
the clergy to sleep and study in, plus a special chamber used for 
communing with Cyric. The entire structure is guarded by pro 
tection from good and protection from magic spells-clerical magic 






87 














can still be cast, but wizard spells and magical items of any type 
cease to function. This reflects Cyric's hatred of Mystra. 

The subterranean section contains tombs, which recently 
have been stocked with the bodies of noted Cyric worshipers. 
For example, followers of Cyric have brought the remains of 
the Mirrormane brothers to rest here. A special arrangement 
with Khelben Arunsun of Waterdeep resulted in Lord Chess 
being buried here as well. 

While Cyric certainly still has his adherents in Zhentil 
Keep, there is little doubt that the god's following has been 
badly depleted. No one is foolish enough to attack the com 
plex outright, but any overt show of devotion to Cyric on the 
streets is fair game for the worshiper being struck down by 
bitter citizens. 

62. The Piz)de of ZhewT)L Keep 

Never has a place been more misnamed. This inn is a dirty, 
cold place where, as one very unsatisfied guest put it, "even 
the chamber pots leak." It has been around since before the 
Razing, and the siege did not help matters much. The inn is 
a worse dive than ever. Volo Geddarm, the renowned travel 
er, has described the Pride of Zhentil Keep as "one of the ten 
worst locales of any kind in the Realms" (and yes, Volo has 
been to Zhentil Keep's dump). 

The Pride of Zhentil Keep is surely the worst inn in the 
city, if not the entire Moonsea region. It is run by Berk (NE 
horn T5), a lazy half-ore with intractable body odor who is 
assisted by Usta and Gres, his half-ore serving wenches. The 
30 rooms' locks are flimsy, the roaches are big, the portions 
are small, and the ale tastes like bilge. Prices are 4 sp for a 
room, 1 sp for food, and 1 cp for a mug of house brew. No 
longer are there any mercenaries who can be hired to ensure 
a good night's sleep; only those with the keenest ears, the 
fastest reflexes, and the sharpest eye get peaceful rest. 

Why is it still in business? Aside from the fact that it is 
one of the only four surviving inns in town, ignorant travel 
ers are often steered here by guides and city guards who have 
a sick sense of humor. Usually, by the time the poor fools 
arrive at the inn, it is too late to go wandering around, and 
thus they reluctantly stay the night. 

It should be borne in mind that the Pride is not necessari 
ly a place where one gets a dagger in the back. That's because 
even the thieves and assassins of Zhentil Keep have their 
pride, and refuse to frequent this dive. If anyone does die, it is 
more often from food poisoning, some exotic disease, or a 
broken neck from tripping on a loose stair. 

6 5. The DefUhJT GesTune 

This is a three-story inn that appears to be in good repair. 
The signboard over the entrance depicts a human hand with 


thumb and pinky tips touching (an obscene gesture in and 
around Zhentil Keep). Twenty-four rooms on the premises 
are rented for 10 gp per night. Stables attached to the rear of 
the inn house mounts for 5 gp per night. A bath costs 1 gp, 
meals are 4 gp, and the weak ale costs 5 sp. The prices are 
steep because of the difficulty getting decent food into the 
city. 

The inn is run by Trevis Uhl (N hm F9), formerly a 
Zhentilar warrior, who is ably assisted by three barmaids 
named Dierdre, Talisan, and Emmi. When the siege first 
started and most of Zhentil Keep went up in holy fire, Trevis 
decided that staying to fight was suicidal. Trevis wears a sil 
ver necklace with a small shield trinket on it that acts as a 
ring of protection +3. His claymore +3 lies under the bar, 
within easy reach. 

The clientele of the Gesture is mostly middle-class folks 
and well-to-do strangers. It is expensive enough to keep out 
the riffraff and most Zhentilar. Trevis's fighting prowess guar 
antees there are no disturbances or customers who refuse to 
leave when asked. 

64. The Jagged Rocks 

Commonly known as the Jagged Rocks, this building is the 
new temple of Umberlee. Craftsmen modified the exterior of 
the structure to resemble a large rock outcropping similar to 
what one would find on a rocky shoreline. A shining light at 
the apex represents a lighthouse. The temple has no crypt, 
since all the faithful are buried at sea, in homage to Umberlee. 

The Jagged Rocks is overseen by a priestess known simply 
as Stormmistress (CE hf C12 of Umberlee), with six priest 
esses as helpers. Services are held during high tides. Special 
celebrations are held during fierce storms. 

Since Zhentil Keep is busy rebuilding its navy, many find it 
necessary to placate this sea goddess as the ships are being 
constructed. The religion has been gaining a steady increase 
in converts, though some in the city wonder why, if Umberlee 
is so wonderful, did she not help the boats that tried to set sail 
during the Razing. Zhentil Keep's entire fleet of merchant and 
warships was destroyed by white dragons, and many mariners 
bitterly remember that night. 

6 5. The PaLacc of ScueeT Pa)m 

The Palace of Sweet Pain is the new temple devoted to Lovi- 
atar. It is designed with definite gothic tones, with barbs and 
spikes all over the turrets and battlements. The entire build 
ing has an air of gloom and menace, and the rumor goes that 
anyone who falls asleep and has the shadow of the temple fall 
upon them will have nightmares. Even so, these nightmares 
are supposedly not mere bad dreams, but cryptic messages and 
revelations, though no good news ever comes from them. 


88 












A night in the Pride of Zhentil Keep is not a very pleasant experience. 


The sections below the temple are a terrible collection of 
torture chambers, cells, and special rooms where unspeak 
able revels occur. However, there is one interesting feature 
to the subterranean section: a maze called "The Broken 
Body." This labyrinth is filled with various traps and pitfalls, 
each designed to injure and maim, but not kill (at least not 
immediately). When a supplicant reaches the maze's objec 
tive, she may ask Loviatar questions as if she had just cast a 
commune spell, with one question allowed per level of the 
individual. 

This new temple is attended by Zhentil Keep's old high 
priest of Loviatar, High Torturelord Ulamyth Quantor (LE 
hm Cl7 of Loviatar), who is aided by 14 priests and priest 
esses. The clergy of Loviatar often interrogates prisoners, 
punishes criminals, and (somewhat oddly) entertains at rich 
parties. 

Loviatar's congregation remains much the same as 
before the Razing. It still consists mostly of ruthless bullies 
who enjoy inflicting pain on others, miserable guilt-ridden 
fools who enjoy getting punished for their supposed trans 
gressions, and insane or depraved individuals who defy 
description. 


High Torturelord Quantor has been given a revelation by 
Loviatar that all is not as it seems with Lord Orgauth. Quan 
tor finds this mystery to be amusing, but does not know how 
to approach the situation. 

6 6. Lodge of The GizoaT HukjT 

Now called the Lodge of the Great Hunt, this temple of 
Malar is a long, low building made of great hewn tree trunks, 
covered with a thatched roof. It appears rather out of place 
among the high, stone buildings of the rest of Zhentil Keep. 
The interior has been decorated to resemble a hunting 
lodge, with animal skin rugs, a roaring fire in a hearth, and 
numerous mounted animal trophies. This building was for 
merly occupied by the Leathercrafters' Guild, and was taken 
over by Malar's clergy after the Razing. Members of the 
Leathercrafters' Guild still hold considerable ill feeling 
toward the church of Malar because of this. 

The Lodge is under the control of Huntmaster Baerdeth 
Malagar (CE hm P16 of Malar), who is attended by 12 spe 
cialty priests. Malar enjoyed a large following before the 
Razing, and the clergy is now busy rebuilding the congrega 
tion. Though Malar worship is more directed at sparing the 




89 












































































worshipers from Malar's wrath and the wild animals that 
hunt, the predatory nature of Zhentil Keep (with regards to 
the other cities of the Moonsea and the Dalelands) makes 
Malar a natural choice for the suffering masses. 

There is very little in the way of organized services for 
Malar. Most worship takes the form of hunts that range 
outside the city walls. During the siege times, these hunts 
consisted of wild, almost suicidal forays into the enemy 
camps, with a particular goal in mind (for example, stealing 
a gnoll chieftain's weapon or finding a frost giant's thumb). 
Worship of Malar increased during the lean winter months, 
as the supplicants prayed that natural predators, which 
were also having a harsh winter, would leave the city alone. 
While many in the city starved in the winter, the hunting 
parties of Malar found game and kept their faithful fed. 
Coincidentally enough, their ranks swelled during this 
time. 

Besides conducting their normal services, members of 
Malar's clergy are raising and training of hunting dogs. 
Many of these beasts are captured as pups in the wild and 
trained at the temple. This has caused some friction with 
local druids, but for now it is a minor quibble at worst. 


67. CusTom House 

This small, squat fortress was reopened and converted into a 
custom house. All merchants coming to and from Zhentil 
Keep report here, record their activities, and pay entry and 
exit taxes. The entry tax is 1 gp per wagon, and the exit tax 
is 3 gp per wagon. The Custom House is opened from sunrise 
to sunset. Caravans that foolishly decide to leave at night or 
enter at night pay double the fees, and usually (65%) under 
go careful cargo inspection. 

The Custom House is staffed by 12 3rd-level Zhentilar 
guards, four bureaucrats, and two 5th-level wizards associat 
ed with the new guild. If a warning gong is rung once, 
another 12 guards enter in ld4+l rounds. On two rings, 18 
guards and two more 5th-level wizards show up instead. 
Three rings sound a general alarm: The gates are shut while 
36 3rd-level Zhentilar and six 5th-level Zhentilar rush to 
the area to defend it. 

Adventuring companies and normal individuals must 
also register. For those on foot, entry tax into the city is 2 cp 
and exit tax is 1 sp. For those on horseback, the tax is 1 sp 
for entry and 2 sp for exit. Visitors who use winged mounts, 
flying carpets, or any other airborne transportation pay 1 pp 
for entry and 2 pp for exit. 

At any given time, the Custom House's strong box holds 
Id20x3 pp, ldlOOxlO gp, Idl00xl5 sp, and Idl00x25 cp. 

6 8 . Reside Nice 

of Kokki ah the Crazy 

This simple one-story, three-room stone house is the home 
of Kornah the Crazy (NG hf R9), an expert Harper agent 
who poses as a city guide. In keeping with her eccentric 
guise, the house is a comfortable mess, with various and 
sundry objects scattered everywhere. Nestled close to the 
city wall, away from the main thoroughfare, Kornah's house 
is a known refuge to all Harpers who visit the Keep. Extreme 
measures are taken to ensure that no neighbors become sus 
picious at the sight of strangers visiting her at all hours of 
the day or night. 

Kornah has a pet crow named Shalla, who shares a weak 
mental link with her mistress. Shalla usually remains in the 
house, but if anyone breaks in she flies off and unerringly 
reaches Kornah, alerting her to the intruders. 

69. The Tesb-Waue 

With a signboard depicting a large wave on the river, this is 
a moderate tavern with decent food and drink - supplies 
permitting. The tavern is located on the dock area outside 
the main wall, and it has a splendid view of the River Tesh 
and the ruined city on the northern bank. The Tesh-Wave 



Kornah the Crazy 


90 
























has become a favored launching point for adventuring par 
ties going into the northern ruins. 

The Tesh-Wave is run by Koleth (N hm FI), a middle- 
aged man with no family. When the Razing came, he simply 
boarded up his place and hid in the basement until it was all 
over. Then he ripped off the boards and opened again for busi 
ness, none the worse for wear. Koleth's three serving wenches 
are Deanna (who has a loose reputation), Roxanne (the 
sweetheart everyone treats like a kid sister), and Dora 
Stonethrow, a female dwarf with a flaming red beard and a 
cranky disposition. Dora is acknowledged as the tavern's arm 
wrestling champ. Most meals run 2 sp, most drinks 5 cp. 

Many sea captains and river boat commanders frequent 
the tavern, making it a favored site to hire a boat. However, 
these days it is rare to find someone crazy enough to sail 
across the Tesh to the northern ruins. 

70. The BmsT Bo)L 

Though this place is a tavern, one would never know to look 
at it. On the outside, this wooden hovel appears unremark 
able. The only irregularity is a faint rune scratched into the 
door. The rune is the word "rest" in the goblinkin tongue. 
This comes as little surprise, since this is a humanoids-only 
bar. It is a small, crowded, smelly, loud, dirty place with saw 
dust on the floor and flies in the gruel. It is frequented by 
ores, half-ores, gnolls, goblins, and other humanoid races 
that happen to wander by. Any humans blundering into the 
Boil get mugs hurled at their heads, threats leveled at their 
persons, and then are told to leave immediately. Any demi- 
hurnan entering the bar is beaten, stabbed, shot at, robbed, 
and then told to leave immediately. 

The Boil is owned by Frrahr the gnoll, who has lived in 
Zhentil Keep for the last five years. His bribes are paid up, so 
the Zhentilar who act as city watch leave him alone. There 
are no tavern wenches in the Boil. Patrons go to the bar for 
drinks and then take them back to their seats. Gruel costs 1 
sp and ale costs 5 cp. 

Many humanoids who were part of the siege forces, but 
managed to desert their army and hide in the city, can be 
found here. It is a common meeting place for humanoids 
when they wish to rendezvous and plot the latest takeover of 
their world. 

71. The Mug awd MuTTow 

The Mug is a rowdy tavern located on the city's main 
avenue. A large wooden board is mounted to the right of the 
outside door, and nailed to it is a wooden drinking mug and 
a small stuffed sheep, hence the tavern's name. The Mug is 
frequented by folks from all walks of life: Mages, merchants, 
thieves, Zhentilar, laborers, adventurers -all types find their 


way to the Mug and Mutton for a tankard of beer and some 
thing hot to eat. 

The tavern is run by Olford Thrax (LN hm FI), a man in 
his late thirties who seems to imbibe as often as his cus 
tomers. Olford is enjoys eating, watching pretty girls, and 
gossiping about everything under the sun. The four tavern 
servers are Karyl, Lorna, Toria, and Salena. Salena (CN hf 
T2) is a practicing thief, but this is not known to anyone. 
Meals run from 6 sp to 2 gp, with drinks ranging from 2 cp 
for cheap house brew to 2 gp for carafes of expensive wines. 

71. The Rh^en. 

A low-slung building with four different drinking areas, the 
River is the largest and best tavern in the city. A constant 
flow of bribes to law enforcement and mercantile officials 
guarantees that no one bothers the clientele, and the menu 
always offers a variety of dishes to choose from. The River is 
the only tavern in town having private rooms for meeting 
and/or drinking, with stout doors that lock from the inside. 

The proprietor of the River is a man named Keris (NE hem 
F5/M5/T7), a well-dressed con man who won the tavern from 
the previous owner and now has a burgeoning business. Even 
though Keris' alignment is evil, it must be explained that this is 
evidenced only in his dealings with the law and finances. As for 
his clients, Keris is quite strict about maintaining their safety 
while under his roof. (Certainly Keris does not mind bilking 
some customers out of a major portion of their funds in a dis 
honest game of chance, but he draws the line at violence.) He 
employs a dozen serving wenches and four serving boys, who 
are all willing to extend services beyond just serving drinks, if 
the proper incentive is produced. Drinks range from 5 cp for the 
cheap stuff, to 5 gp for the truly exotic liqueurs which Keris' 
connections keep him supplied with. Meals range from 2 sp for 
simple fare, to 5 gp for a feast. A group of four or more revelers 
can rent one of the four private rooms for 2 gp per hour. 

It is not unusual to see many of Zhentil Keep's movers 
and shakers having a drink at the River. It is a place to see 
and be seen. Unlike many other taverns in the Realms, 
where any bard may just stand up and perfonn, Keris only 
allows a bard to perform if he himself has heard the min 
strel's selection beforehand. Keris also asks for a 20% cut of 
any money thrown at the bard. 

Keris's other sideline is that of fence. He conducts that 
business in his office, recording all transactions in a ledger. 
Keris's office has a secret trap door that leads to the sewers. 
For his defense, Keris has a ring of teleportation, an oddity he 
found during his brief stint as an adventurer. The ring 
instantaneously teleports him to the Crypts, where he fetch 
es a dozen Zhentilar and brings them back to the River, to 
deal with any problem. 











75. South Comotorzy 

Named back when there were more cemeteries in Zhentil Keep 
(all in the northern portion), this is now the only cemetery still 
maintained and accessible. Situated in the extreme eastern cor 
ner of the Keep, the South Cemetery is sealed off from the casu 
al public by a 6-foot-high stone wall, topped with a spiked black 
iron fence that adds an additional 4 feet to the wall's height. The 
entry to the graveyard is a pair of huge doors made of black iron 
carved with death's heads, hourglasses, winged creatures, and 
setting suns. Atop the gate is a glyph which supposedly seals the 
cemetery, preventing undead from entering or leaving. Anyone 
who takes a good look at the glyph (and no one has done so in a 
while) sees that, while the glyph is intact, it is no longer set 
properly. There is currently no caretaker for the South Ceme 
tery, but a priest of Kelemvor would feel obliged to attempt to 
make the place look a bit more presentable -and to lay to rest 
any roaming undead creatures encountered. 

Inside the walls is an eclectic collection of tombs, burial 
mounds, gravestones, crematory urns, and statuary. The 
ground is disturbingly wet and springy due to the high water 
table in proximity to the river banks. 


The easternmost guard tower in the city wall also marks 
the easternmost point in the South Cemetery. However, the 
Zhentilar are reluctant to patrol there. In fact, all the arrow 
slits and murder holes in the walls that face into the grave 
yard have been sealed with mortar. Naturally, none of the 
Zhentilar are willing to admit that they are afraid of the 
cemetery. 

When wandering the graveyard after dusk, random 
encounters are checked for once every 30 minutes (three 
turns), with a roll of 1 on ld6 indicating an encounter. An 
asterisk (*) means that particular undead type cannot leave 
the cemetery's borders. 


dlO Roll 

Random Encounter 

1 

3d4 rats 

2 

ld8 Zhentish sewer rats 

3-4 

2d6 skeletons 

5-6 

2d4 ghouls 

7 

ld6 shadows 

8 

ld4 wights* 

9 

1 spectre* 

10 

1 ghost* 



The South Cemetery can be a peaceful resting place for the dead, but only during daylight hours. 


92 




































































Since the graveyard was originally "consecrated" to 
Bane, his apparent demise has turned it into unholy ground. 
Anyone buried here has a 30% chance of rising as an 
undead creature, checked for once per full moon. Attempts 
at turning undead are made as if the undead were one step 
higher on the Turning Undead table (in the DMG). 

It is possible that some evil power may attempt to use the 
undead as some form of servants, but no one has yet made 
the effort. In general, the cemetery is left alone, with the 
occasional burial made during daylight hours. 

74. BdTh House 

This ornate marble building is a holdover from the pre-Raz- 
ing days that has managed to survive intact. Built over a rare 
mineral hot spring, the bath house has large communal 
pools and smaller private pools filled with soothing hot 
water. A selection of cool wines are offered for the bather 
who does not wish to get too overheated. Massages by 
experts are also available, rounding out the entire experi 
ence of the bath house. The bath house is the perfect place 
for the rich, the powerful, and the magically gifted to gossip, 
relax, and talk shop. 

Valourish the Younger of Calimshan (CN hm M15) is 
the proprietor. Since the time of the Razing he has kept a 
low profile until the city stabilizes. His pride and joy is a djin- 
ni bottle with a marid under his command. Valourish keeps 
control of the house through the courtesy of four massive 
eunuch warriors (LN hm F12) armed with scimitars +3. The 
eunuchs, who also happen to be mute, silently bow in wel 
come to all guests, and lead them to the proper pools after 
taking the admission price. Admission is 5 gp for the com 
munal pool, 7 gp and 5 sp for the private pool, and 2 gp for a 
massage. Pool sessions last for two hours, and a massage lasts 
15 minutes. 

The bath house experience is common in the warmer 
southern lands, and it was built by a Calishite wizard in a fit 
of homesickness and disgust with the cold Moonsea climate. 
As a result, many foreigners, especially wizards, frequent the 
bath house, so much so that many people joke that the bath 
house is Zhentil Keep's second wizards' guild headquarters. 

7 5. Touuerz of the ART 

After the disaster of the Razing, a ragtag band of wizards 
joined forces in the southern portion of the city and decided 
to depend on each other for mutual survival. They found and 
moved into a large tower that at one time belonged to a pow 
erful archmage, rehabilitated it, and renamed it the Tower of 
the Art. The edifice is 10 stories high and dominates the 
Zhentish skyline -an appropriate thing, since the city's life 
has always been interlinked with the forces of magic. The 


Tower holds of numerous bedrooms, studies, labs, work 
rooms, lecture halls, libraries, and store rooms. The top level 
is an observatory. Interestingly, the Tower has no front door; 
when a visitor rings the bell at the front portico, the mage on 
duty in the tower activates the teleport spell on the marble 
slab that the visitor is standing on, which whisks him or her 
to a magical circle in the tower's ground floor. Exiting the 
tower is much the same way -a mage in the tower must trig 
ger the spell, allowing the visitor to leave. 

The guild is run by a mage named Thagdal (LE hm M16), 
a native Zhent. Fortunately, his love for the Art is as great as 
any obligation he feels toward the city and its rulers. His 
favorite item is a ring of truth, which he wears when he inter 
views prospective guild candidates. Initial entry fee is 50 gp 
per level of mage, with annual fees of 25 gp per level. 
Nonguild mages may use the facilities, but only if they pay 
25 gp per hour of usage and are willing to be constantly 
monitored by a guild mage. 

The guild's first and foremost goal is mutual survival, cou 
pled with preservation and promotion of the Art. Hence, 
the Tower is magically shielded and warded so that nothing 
may teleport, gate, plane shift, or blink into the structure, 
except as listed above. These barriers also prevent outsiders 
from scrying and any astral or ethereal travelers from gain 
ing access. Additionally, wizards inside the Tower can still 
summon creatures as per their respective spell ability. 

76. DesenXeb ORphawage 

This squat, two-story building used to be an orphanage, but 
now serves as the headquarters of the (currently) largest of 
Zhentil Keep's thieves' guilds. The interior is gutted, with 
most of the partitioning walls gone. Debris is scattered all 
over the floor, making any attempt at walking quietly an 
exercise in futility. Thieves who attempt to walk across the 
floor suffer a -15% penalty to move silently rolls. There are 
still four stone hearths/chimneys in place, and one of them 
contains a secret trap door that leads to an underground 
complex. If a small metal handle is not turned properly, 
however, the intruder who plans on using the trap door suf 
fers the attack of 2d4 darts (THACO 10), each inflicting ld4 
points of damage. The darts fire from a mechanism in the 
chimney. A victim must make a save vs. poison, with a 
cumulative -1 penalty for each dart that hit after the first 
one. Failure to save paralyzes the victim for 2d6 turns. (Note 
that up to two people may be in the line of fire for the darts, 
all of which affect both victims -roll 2d4 per victim.) In 
addition to the darts, the trap triggers a loud clanging noise 
that alerts the guild below to trouble up above. Climbing 
down the secret tunnel, the visitor finds himself in a well- 
organized underground headquarters, with four thieves of 





93 












Id6 levels as the sentries. The guild complex itself contains 
sleeping quarters, loot storage rooms, tool-making work 
shops, a tailor, a leatherworker, and a small shrine to Tymo- 
ra, goddess of luck. Everything that a thief would need to 
better ply his trade is found here. 

This is the only truly organized thieves' guild in the new 
Zhentil Keep. The guild is forbidden to exist by Zhentish 
law, and is the best kept secret in the city (save for the true 
identity of Lord Orgauth). The leader of the guild is Tyana 
Softfoot (N hf T15), a very average-looking woman who 
can easily blend into any crowd, and who has a weakness for 
exotic desserts. She organized the guild for the same reasons 
that the wizard Thagdal organized his guild: mutual survival, 
and propagation of her trade. As the guildmistress, Tyana is 
a well-organized leader and a brilliant strategist and tacti 
cian, with survival her first and foremost concern. She has 
managed to take a pack of five dozen thieves of assorted 
races and levels of experience and shape them into a tight, 
secretive guild. Tyana is a lifelong resident of Zhentil Keep, 
and knows well the lay of the land as well as the political sit 
uations and the idiosyncrasies of many of the city's most 
influential and/or well-known people. Tyana realizes that 
her guild is highly illegal, rendering secrecy of the utmost 
importance. If she feels that the location of her guild is 
about to be compromised she will kill the offender, despite 
her aversion to murder. 

77. ZhehjTitdiz HeddqudrzTerzs 

As is well known, the Zhentilar are the armed forces of 
Zhentil Keep. The current headquarters is an old Zhentilar 
armory. The headquarters also has a massive armory under 
ground, and the equivalent of a brig. The cells are for Zhen 
tilar who violate their military oaths, as well as private citi 
zens who engage in treasonous behavior. 

This structure is commanded by the captain of Zhentil 
Keep's security, Ulgrym (CN hm F13), a senior Zhentish 
army captain who has been around since the Time of Trou 
bles. He and his garrison of 750 soldiers occupy both the 
headquarters and the barracks nearby, planning strategies 
and coordinating the city's defense. The building houses the 
entire command structure of the Zhentilar forces. The 
building is well defended and not often visited by strangers. 
After all, the only contact the average person needs with 
the Zhentilar is in terms of city law enforcement, which is 
what the Crypts are for. Any non-Zhentilar who wants to set 
foot past the front door had better have a compelling, life- 
or-death-of-the-city reason to be there, or be unceremoni 
ously thrown out. 

There are always 18 3rd-level and one 5th-level Zhenti 
lar on active guard duty. A nearby alarm gong alerts the 


troops for action, with three gongs being the accepted signal 
for a major emergency. 

78. Bldck N&Tujonk (Zhexi- 
Tdizjm) Hed&qudizTerzs 

A small, ornate mansion houses the remains of the Zhen- 
tarim headquarters in Zhentil Keep. The manor is a sort of 
"embassy" for the Black Network. Even though its presence 
is downplayed. Lord Orgauth knows of its existence, as do 
most of the city leaders. The front and back doors are guard 
ed by a glyph of warding, a nasty specimen called "Zeeas." 
Any non-evil being who passes under the glyph without 
whispering the word of passing triggers the energy with a 
bright red flash and a loud hang! The victim must then make 
a successful saving throw vs. death magic or drop dead on 
the spot. 

Staffed by the self-titled Nimbaud the Magnificent (LE 
hm M8), a Zhentarim member, it is the only remaining con 
tact that the Black Network has with the city since the Raz 
ing. The mansion is guarded by six Zhentarim warriors (km 
& hf F7) bearing two-handed swords, plus Synnda (LE hf 
C7 of Cyric), a cleric of Cyric, her assistant priest Goral 
Righthand (LE hm C5 of Cyric), and two thieves who act as 
assassins and spies when needed. The thieves forsook their 
regular names and are now simply called Shadow (LE hf 
T10) and Mist (LE hm T9). 

Nimbaud's task is to keep an open line of communication 
between the Network and the leadership of the Keep. He is 
to monitor the Keep, determine when the reconstruction is 
done, and recommend the moment when the Black Network 
can move back in and seize the city in a swift, near-bloodless 
coup. The Network maintains good solid relations with the 
temple of Cyric. There is obvious friction between the Zhen 
tilar and the fledgling mage guild, fueled by mutual mistrust. 
Considering the debacle of the Razing, the Network is more 
intent than ever to use only subtle machinations. 

The manor is stocked with all manner of collectable 
works of art many of them religious icons of Cyric, but Nim 
baud's pride and joy is a crystal ball with ESP, which he uses 
to spy on the city's leaders as well as to communicate with 
his superiors at the Citadel of the Raven. Nimbaud keeps 
the crystal ball out of sight when company comes; actually, 
only he and Synnda know of its existence. 

79. Bdizizoddiz's 
fdXiTdsTia fdbiz'ias 

Under the guise of a fabric merchant specializing in the sale 
of bolts of cloth from all over the Realms hides the most suc 
cessful fence left in the city. Barrodar (NE hm T12) the mer 
chant is the finest unallied fence in Zhentil Keep. His loyal- 











ties are only to himself; he does not work for or take orders 
from any exclusive group. Barrodar does not deal in infor 
mation, rumors, or his list of clients. People who whisper the 
right words in his ear open an opportunity to deal with an 
expert who can fence their stolen goods or introduce them 
to a black market source. 

The only way the PCs can find out about Barrodar is to 
live in Zhentil Keep for at least a week, meet some of the 
less-reputable members of the society, and have one of them 
owe the PC a favor. At that point, the PC just might get 
Barrodar's address. Barrodar never fences for anyone he 
doesn't know, or anyone who has not been recommended by 
someone he knows -no exceptions. 

During the Razing, Barrodar lost his original business, 
located in the northern portion of the city. However, it did 
not take him long (three days, to be exact) to find this 
empty shop and set up a new business. Barrodar is, among 
other things, a survivor. The stolen goods and other inter 
esting merchandise are kept in the cellar. Barrodar lives in 
the apartment above the store. 

Barrodar is aware of the existence of the thieves' guild in 
Zhentil Keep, but he remains mum about it. He and Tyana 
have a very profitable arrangement, and he does not want to 
see it ruined. 

80. PizospeizTCy House 

Prosperity House is a huge complex that includes the Silver- 
guild Manor, the Prosperity Emporium, the Prosperity Cara 
van Company, and the caravan staging grounds. 

Silverguild Manor (80a on the color map) is an attrac 
tive, comfortable manor house staffed with a dozen servants. 
Here lives Malvred Silverguild (N hm FI), the most impor 
tant merchant in the new Zhentil Keep is a man named. He 
is one of the richest men in the Keep, and may even be con 
sidered for a position as a new Lord of Zhentil Keep, as his 
wealth approaches that of Lords Payr'adar and Halaster. He 
is a shrewd man who is rarely outfoxed in a deal. He is a 
patron of the arts who enjoys funding deserving bards, espe 
cially if they compose a flattering ode to him. Malvred is not 
much involved in city politics. He still clings to the hope 
that Waukeen, goddess of Trade, still lives. Things like the 
Black Network, church of Cyric, Zhentilar, and Zhentish 
citizens mean little to him compared with earning some 
gold. However, his wealth may thrust him into a higher pro 
file than he would have liked. 

Malvred posts a personal guard of 14 mercenaries (hm & 
hf F4) to protect Silverguild Manor in addition to the four 
bodyguards who accompany him everywhere. Living with 
him in his mansion is his perpetually bored wife Eunice, his 
spoiled rich brat of a daughter Ernelia (N hf F2), and his lazy 


son Meryn (N hm F2). Both of his children have received 
warrior training and enjoy carousing in the streets and bars 
of the Keep. They are always on the lookout for a new chal 
lenge or conquest. 

The Prosperity Emporium (80b on the color map) is an 
"all services" mercantile shop of great size. Any item that 
can be worn, eaten, or used in battle can he found here, at a 
5% markup from base prices. When the caravans are mov 
ing well, any items from (9358) Aurora's Whole Realms Cat 
alogue can be found here, with a 10% markup. 

The Prosperity Caravan Company (80c on the color map) 
is Malvred's pride and joy. Here, he assembles caravans that 
make their way all over the continent, and also receives cara 
vans from everywhere as well. Malvred has a talent for putting 
together the perfect caravan, and many merchants come to 
him for his services. In addition, Malvred hires many merce 
naries and adventuring groups to guard the caravans. Many an 
adventurer has earned a fine bit of coin by working for 
Malvred. There is always a crowd of professional freelance sol 
diers and adventurers, waiting for word about work. 

81. SuwseT House 

Lurking near the South Cemetery is an ornate house with 
heavy black drapes across the windows, and shutters for 
extra privacy. Stone gargoyles leer down from the roof. The 
doors and windows are secured with a special glyph of ward 
ing called "Izzeiz," available only to priestesses of Lolth. 
When a non-drow passes across it, it detonates with a loud 
roar and a flash of violet-green light. The victim must make 
a successful saving throw vs. petrification or be turned to 
stone. Even a successful saving throw still inflicts 20 points 
of damage on the intruder. The cellar has a secret passage 
that leads to a subterranean tunnel that was once part of the 
older Zhentil Keep ruins from centuries past. Winding one's 
way through those ruins eventually brings one to a steep 
tunnel leading to the Underdark. 

This old house, formerly owned by an eccentric mer 
chant who fled during the Razing, is now home to a contin 
gent of drow. They are from House Mizzrym, the same house 
which maintains a secret Moonsea base in the ruined city of 
Sulasspryn. Thus far, their presence is known only to 
Orgauth and his consort, and the clergy of Loviatar, since 
these particular drow find this goddess rather fascinating. 
The drow, who sensed the disturbances with the Time of 
Troubles and later on the Razing, visited the wrecked Keep 
and had the good fortune of meeting "Lord Orgauth," who 
decided that it would be wise to establish a rapport with the 
dark elves of Menzoberranzan. (The pit fiend is wise enough 
not to dismiss a potential resource: Orgauth has found a neat 
solution to disposing of undesirables without killing them. 














The city square in the new Zhentil Keep is a favored promenade of all the Keep's citizens. 


The drow are more than happy to buy healthy slaves and 
send them to the Underdark.) 

The drow are led by Kebella Mizzrym (CE ef F7/ C7 of 
Lolth), a cunning, cold drow priestess of Lolth. Her consort 
is Taybar Rozziss (CE em F5/M5), a nominal sorcerer and 
professional "yes man." The balance of the staff includes a 
half-dozen 3rd-level drow warriors and a mind flayer advisor 
by the name of Xog. 

The drow never venture out in daylight or on moonlit 
nights. As a rule, they limit their city forays to the darkest, 
cloudiest nights, and they walk enshrouded in long cloaks 
and large hoods. 

Unknown to Lord Orgauth, Kebella has her own agenda 
for Zhentil Keep. She hopes to insinuate herself into the 
city's command structure, unaware, of course, that Orgauth 
is really a pit fiend. Kebella wants Zhentil Keep as a staging 
area to launch attacks on the elves to the south, as well as to 
control the Moonsea coast. 

8 2. City SquAize 

Also called the Gathering, this small paved square is a 
favored lounging spot for the citizenry. Six stone benches 


are arranged along the perimeter of the plaza, facing the 
statue of some unknown bureaucrat who apparently did 
something significant several centuries ago. Several stocks 
and pillories are set up for public punishments. Some clever 
vendors save their rotted produce to sell to the jeering 
crowds for one copper piece each. This way, the crowds have 
ammunition which to pelt the prisoners. Public floggings 
also take place here, meted out by the clergy of Loviatar. 
The final object of note is a rough wooden pole made from a 
chunk of driftwood. Messages, notices, edicts, personal 
notes, are fastened to the pole. It is the best way to get in 
touch with someone in the city. People find job opportuni 
ties, cryptic warnings, and other matters, at the pole. 

Interestingly enough, the square is the only place in the 
city that is consistently lit at night. Illumination emanates 
from a pair of lanterns enchanted by some foreign wizard so 
that they each bum a flask of oil only once per month. 

The square itself is a very popular place, and there is 
always a small crowd here. Bards often perform here, hop 
ing to catch the attention of an inn or tavern owner who 
will like what they play and invite the performer to play at 
their establishment. One of the regulars in the square is an 




96 









































































old man in a threadbare robe who goes by the name of 
Sanamun. He is a chess player who is always seen with his 
game, usually sitting on a bench, playing against a new 
opponent. Sanamun plays for a gold piece a game, and he is 
quite good. He is a sage, specializing in the history of the 
Moonsea region, with a special focus on Zhentil Keep, 
Hillsfar, and Phlan. 

85. The Dancing Coin 

This fancy but secure-looking building houses Andalias (N 
hm F2), the most popular moneychanger in Zhentil Keep. He 
has currencies from all over Faerun, and can change practical 
ly anything to Zhentish coin, and vice versa. The normal 
transaction cost is 10% of the value. Andalias is a man with a 
sharp head for figures. He is very methodical and precise, and 
is always thinking two steps ahead of everyone else. 

Since Andalias has about 75,000 gp worth of coins on his 
premises at any given time, he has taken special security 
measures: An archmage friend of his created two clay 
golems and a ring which allows Andalias to control them. 
The golems, named Bar and Ingot, lurk in a back room and 
can be summoned to appear in one round. 

The Zhentilar make it a point to pass Andalias' establish 
ment often, keeping an eye out for the moneychanger. 

Andalias lives alone in his beautiful home, adjacent to 
the moneychanging building. He is in his late thirties, and 
looking for a wife. 

84. UTa's Equipment 

A large store stocked with all manner of equipment, this 
business has all the new and used goods anyone could need. 
Except for foodstuffs, spirits, arms and armor, livestock, and 
spell components, Lita's Equipment has it all. Anything that 
can be found in the Aurora's Wlwle Realms Catalogue, the 
Arms & Equipment Guide, or the Player's Handbook can be 
bought here with only a 20% markup (very reasonable for 
Zhentil Keep). 

Lita herself is a delight to the eyes. A young elf woman in 
what seems to be her early twenties, she explains that she 
used to be an adventurer, but her entire adventuring compa 
ny was slaughtered. She salvaged their equipment, sold it, 
and had enough to open this shop. In fact, there is just 
enough tmth in that story to make it sound feasible. Lita is 
actually a werefox (see the Monstrous Manual) who 
slaughtered her party and took their goods. Her prize posses 
sion is an amulet of non-detection. 

Lita survived the Razing quite well, and is now looking 
for some excitement as well as profit. If a PC has an item 
that catches her eye, she attempts to sweet talk that person 
into giving it up or selling it cheap. 


A small apartment attached to the back of the store 
serves as Lita's home. Despite its small size, it is lavishly dec 
orated with all manner of expensive luxury goods. 

8 5. The Eye of the Beholden 

Despite its potentially threatening name, this is simply a 
jeweler/gem cutter's establishment. It is run by Artagalor 
Goldbeard (NG dm F4/T4), a very dexterous dwarf with an 
impressive gold-colored beard. Artagalor buys and sells gems 
and jewelry, and is a craftsman of the highest caliber. He 
works well with metals as well, making beautiful gold and 
silver jewelry. 

What no one realizes about Artagalor is that he stayed in 
Zhentil Keep because the dwarf god Moradin commanded 
him to stay. The power chose Artagalor despite his common 
dwarf weaknesses of greed and social gracelessness, for he 
does have a good heart. Moradin is not pleased with the way 
dwarves are being treated by the Keep and its leaders, and he 
wants someone in place who may be able to carry out his 
will. Manifesting his spirit in a small silver icon of the god, 
Moradin told Artagalor that "this city needs a few shining 
lights amongst the filth." 

The whole matter has Artagalor rather confused, as he 
does not see himself as a paragon of virtue. Still, he muses, 
compared to the rest of the city he is probably a paladin. 
Artagalor indeed is a decent fellow, honest in his business 
dealings, and with strong convictions of right and wrong. In 
fact, if a group of PCs were fleeing from the Zhentilar, he 
would probably take them in and hide them until the danger 
was passed, as he has no love at all for the rulers of the city 
and their lackeys. 

8 6. On Four feet 

This large barnlike structure with an adjacent corral features 
horses, ponies, oxen, mules, and other livestock. (Of course, 
his stock has been extremely limited lately.) Additional 
stalls are available for horse owners to put their animals up 
for the night. Balrud Thai (LN hm F4) is the proprietor, 
knowledgeable in the care and feeding of all types of 
mounts. (Balrud even has two special stalls set aside to 
accommodate flying mounts such as griffins or pegasi.) One 
night's stay, including feeding and grooming, costs 10 gp, or 
25 gp for exotic mounts. The animals that Balrud sells are 
marked up 20% from the base prices in the PHB, and at this 
price are a deal compared to the normal tenfold markup 
found anywhere else in the Keep. 

During the leaner times, when famine hit the city during 
the Razing, Balrud had to be especially vigilant, as people 
began to cultivate a taste for horse and mule flesh. A former 
mercenary, Balrud found himself having to kill more than 


97 










one desperate fool who wanted to eat his stock. It is helpful 
that Balrud lives in a series of four rooms above the livery's 
main building. His few guests always cringe at the powerful 
odor of the animals, but Balrud has grown quite accustomed 
to it. In fact, Balrud seems to get along with animals better 
than people. A nominal worshiper of Chauntea, he has an 
almost rangerlike rapport with animals. 

One person he especially does not get along with is Luanna 
Lightheart, his next-door neighbor and business partner. 

87. Luamkja's Foizge 

Despite the delicate, almost elvish sounding name, Luanna 
(CN hf F3) is a rotund, muscular woman who wears her 
blonde hair in two huge braids. She is an accomplished 
blacksmith and iron worker. She shoes horses, repairs armor 
and weapons, and creates metal tools and items. Her profi 
ciency at smithing is unparalleled in the city, and her prices 
are on a par with the average costs of a smith, as opposed to 
the usual inflated Zhentil Keep pricing. Dwarves who meet 
her often observe that, if she were but 2 feet shorter and had 
a beard, she would be the ideal woman. 

One person who considers her less than the ideal woman is 
Balrud, the livery man. These two simply do not get along, as 
they bring out the worst in each other. Balrud is a man of 
nature who finds much to appreciate in living, growing things, 
while Luanna enjoys the ability to pound lifeless iron into a 
useful tool. This is not a case of two people who bicker but 
have a underlying love for each other; they truly hate each 
other. Unfortunately, they are in a financially symbiotic rela 
tionship. Balrud's horses require shoes, and Luanna's horse 
shoes require, well, horses. Since their businesses are adjacent 
to each other, they have no choice but to work together often. 

Luanna is worshiper of Gond. During high holy days, she 
takes handfuls of iron gears and hurls them at Balrud's build 
ing. The latter often retaliates by sneaking into her house 
and releasing a sick goose or a pig, then laughing madly at 
the horrible mess the animal leaves all over the environs. 

When the river bridges are rebuilt, Luanna will be called 
upon to help build new components such as gears and cogs. 
This will make her a target of those people who do not wish 
to see Zhentil Keep (or its separate components) rebuilt in 
any way. However, like many priests and followers of Gond, 
Luanna does not see the moral side of things; all she sees is a 
project that needs to be done, a challenge that needs to be 
overcome. As long as people leave her alone, she is content 
to leave them alone as well, and get on with her work. 

Luanna's pride and joy is a massive, two-handed war ham 
mer +4, a gift given to her by a dwarf admirer. Anyone who 
attempts to give her grief will be on the receiving end of this 
nasty weapon, wielded with her formidable (18/76) strength. 



8 8. The Sp)ce of Life 

There are precious few halflings in Zhentil Keep, and this 
herb and spice shop is one of those places where they are 
found. It takes either a very stubborn or very stupid halfling 
to go against the grain and try to make a life in Zhentil 
Keep, as the halfling's size and reputation make him an easy 
target for bullies. 

Ascot Stumblefoot (NG halfrn F3/T3) is an extremely 
polite, impeccably mannered, and very stubborn halfling. A 
bit of an Epicurean, his prime motivation for settling in the 
Foreign Quarter eight years ago was the proximity of a rather 
fine vintage of wine and a very special blend of tobacco. 
Admittedly, Ascot had thoughts of leaving during the Raz 
ing, when he was down to only three meals a day and it 
appeared that the entire city would go up in flames, but his 
stubbornness prevailed, and he did not budge an inch. 

Ascot runs his herb and spice store, offering a selection 
that must be seen to be believed. Besides the commonplace 
spices and herbs, his store carries exotic merchandise from 
places as varied as the Moonshaes, Kozakura, Maztica, 
Zakhara, and, some whisper, even certain rare herbs that 
grow only in the Beastlands, in the Outer Planes. His inven 
tory is priced at only 5% markup over base prices, and 
includes any herbs, plants, and spices a PC can think of, 
including things like wolfsbane, belladonna, and nightshade. 
In addition to herbs and spices. Ascot also sells a wide selec 
tion of teas and tobaccos. Whatever he does not have in 
stock, he can order, since Ascot has numerous connections. 

Ascot eats, drinks, and smokes far too much, and he has 
never completely given up his con-man scams that he 
employed when he "took up the way of the wanderer and 
warrior," as he calls adventuring. He lives underground, in a 
warren of tunnels made into comfortable rooms only big 
enough for a halfling, gnome, or possibly a dwarf. This com 
fortable dwelling lies directly under the shop. 

8 9. Way °f Wajzr)ok 

This long hall is the headquarters of the only fighters' guild 
in town. Called the Way of the Warrior, it was formed dur 
ing the tumultuous events of the Razing. During that time, 
the Zhentilar hired many mercenaries to fill out the ranks of 
the defense, in the face of the besieging forces. Many of 
these warriors had private reservations about fighting for a 
political entity that seemed to be cursed by the gods. The 
Way was formed as a means for the fighters to unite in a pact 
of mutual support and cooperation. Each member is tat 
tooed with a flaming sword on his upper left arm. The guild 
currently boasts 47 members, with levels ranging from 1st to 
10th. It is run by Cerenna True-edge (LN hf F12), a 60-year- 





98 












old woman who is a veteran of many campaigns. Though 
age has slowed her down a little, her skills are mostly intact 
and she can beat almost anyone in a fair fight. 

The hall is a low-slung one-story building, which features 
a meeting room, weapon and annor repair shop, shrine to 
Tempus, training rooms, and two communal sleeping cham 
bers. The guild provides a place for a warrior to rest his head, 
sharpen his weapon, bang out the dents in his armor, and 
perhaps find employment. Many caravan leaders come to 
the guild to hire escorts. Guild admission is 50 gp, and annu 
al dues amount to 5% of the warrior's earnings. 

Entry into the guild is a two-step process. The first step is 
to be nominated for membership by an existing member, or a 
former member who left in good standing. The second step is 
a bout of nonlethal melee with one of the instructors. The 
applicant need not be able to beat the instructor; a convinc 
ing showing of the applicant's ability to competently wield a 
weapon is all that's needed. Membership is open to males and 
females, humans and demihumans, and all the many types of 
warriors there are. Rangers, paladins, cavaliers -all are eligi 
ble to join. Multiclassed fighters are also allowed, with the 
understanding that their magic, clerical devotions, or thiev 
ing skills are not welcome within the walls of the hall. 

There is currently some tension between Cerenna and 
Ulgrym (the captain of the guard). Ugrym wants the warrior 
guild to drill with the city's defenders, but Cerenna refuses, 
citing the guild's independence and the promise that they 
will defend the city if it is under attack. The Zhentilar are 
not used to taking people at their word, but Cerenna points 
out that that is not her problem. 

90. Rh)ercJbAK)k TheaTen. 

Even a city in the midst of rebuilding needs its arts, some 
thing which the pit fiend/Lord Orgauth acknowledges. The 
Riverbank Theater is a large playhouse with near-perfect 
acoustics. For the longest time, the Theater was used as a 
camping area for humanoid armies under Zhentish employ. 
After the Razing, however, it was abandoned, then to be 
taken over by a small handful of bards and other performers 
who were unable to leave the city. When Lord Orgauth 
heard of the situation, he hired the artists to restore the the 
ater and put on shows again. Thus, Lord Orgauth became, in 
the eyes of many, an enlightened patron of the arts. 

The artists did their work well and restored the theater to 
its original grandeur, limited only by the scarcity of supplies 
during the lean months. The building has a seating capacity 
of 2,500 people, which is currently 10% of the city's popula 
tion! The entire theater is posh, featuring very comfortable 
seats, soft crimson carpeting, beautiful tapestries on the 
walls, all lit by globes of colored glass with continual light 


spells cast upon them. Many wandering performers are sur 
prised to find such a place of beauty and enlightemnent in a 
city with such a sordid, evil reputation. This, however, is 
precisely what Lord Orgauth wants to happen. The pit fiend 
is doing his best to very subtly undermine a lot of the talk of 
the Keep's alleged wickedness. He wants to lull the other 
cities into a state of false security, making them think that 
the Keep is no longer a threat. 

Bards, jugglers, jesters, dancers, and actors put on nightly 
performances at the theater. The current, popular play is 
called Cyric the Duck Sun, a satire portraying the god as an 
evil waterfowl trying to take over the entire pond. The peo 
ple howl with laughter while the clergy of Cyric howls with 
outrage at this blasphemy. However, as the clergy of Cyric is 
none too popular these days, they are powerless to do any 
thing about it. 

Once more, this is part of Lord Orgauth's cunning plan. 
With plays like Cyric the Duck Sun, the pit fiend hopes to 
gradually undermine the people's faith in all gods and god 
desses. Since Orgauth continues to fund the theater, one 
can only guess that there will be more such performances, 
each one aimed at a different deity. 

91. The Hall of Rulensh)p 

Once an ancient fort during the Keep's wilder days, centuries 
ago, this stout building now serves as the seat of government 
for Zhentil Keep. The bulk of the building is taken up with 
offices for the running of the different departments in the city. 
Orgauth's throne room is in the Hall; this is where he receives 
all his visitors, as everyone is forbidden to enter his manor. He 
also has a large office, where he conducts less formal business. 
The other lords of the Keep, as well as the Captain of Zhentil 
Keep's Security, have offices in the Hall. A secret tunnel in the 
basement leads to Orgauth's manor, and Orgauth and 
Desmonda are the only ones who know of its existence. 

One of the Hall's most impressive rooms is the Lords' 
Room, a huge chamber dominated by an expensive oak 
table with a map of Zhentil Keep laminated into its surface. 
This is the room where "Lord Orgauth" assembles his fellow 
rulers of the city in order to come up with new civic plans. 
Of course, it is all a sham; Orgauth uses his pit fiend abilities 
to warp the wills of all present, making them agree to what 
ever he says, but tinkering with their minds so that they 
believe that they actually had a say in what was going on. 

The Hall is always guarded by 15 3rd-level Zhentilar, five 
5th-level Zhentilar, and overseen by a 7th-level Zhentilar 
warrior. It is open to the public in a limited capacity: There is 
a department of records, which contains all of the records 
that were rescued or salvaged during the Razing. This turned 
out to be a very small amount indeed, as most people were 



99 











too busy trying to escape with their lives to bother with res 
cuing paperwork. 

Salvaging is another matter, however, and it is still being 
attempted. These attempts are coordinated by a rat-faced 
little man call Zark (LE km Tl), a member of the Zhentarim 
who specializes in scribe work and research. When he was 
recruited by the Black Network, he imagined a life of 
debauchery, drunkenness, looting, pillaging, and stepping 
on other people. Instead, he got stuck in the hall of records, 
watching all the information and reporting back to the 
Zhentarim if anything of interest crossed his desk. There 
fore, Zark is not a happy man, and he is determined to make 
the lives of anyone trying to look for records into a living 
hell. In addition, he is in charge of sending adventuring par 
ties into the northern, ruined city in order to salvage impor 
tant papers. On such missions, he does his best to pay the 
least amount of wages possible. 

9H. The Docks 

Though not nearly as large as the docks in the northern sec 
tion of the city, these docks now handle all sea and river traffic 
to and from Zhentil Keep. There are several piers, two dry- 
docks, and a dockmaster's shack. In order to provide security, a 
detachment of 24 3rd-level Zhentilar is permanently assigned 
here, staying in the wall tower that juts out to the river's edge. 
They are under the command of a 5th-level Zhentilar. 

The dockmaster is a retired sea captain, Shamus Dol- 
phinsbane (N hm F3). In addition to having a ridiculous 
name, Shamus also has the annoying habit of asking far too 
many questions, most of which are irrelevant to what the 
Zhentish authorities want to know about arriving ships. 
("Nice ship. How many knots can she do in a storm?") He 
also tends to launch himself into irritating tangents and 
long-winded stories about the sea. When Shamus is not wan 
dering the docks or in his shack, he is at the Tesh-Wave, 
drinking large amounts of grog and talking up a storm. 

Visitors who enter the city by the docks are escorted by 
two Zhentilar to the Custom House to be processed and pay 
their entry taxes. Docking fees are 1 gp per 10 feet of boat 
length per day. People can hire a simple boat with one small 
sail and a pair of oars for 10 gp a day. Once the Force Bridge 
is repaired, the docks' importance will vastly increase. Con 
trol of the bridge's mechanisms will allow the Zhentilar to 
collect tolls at the docks. 

A river ferry runs from these docks, westward to Tesh- 
wave, then Dagger Falls. Fares are 5 sp per person, 1 gp per 
mount. One ferry departs each morning, reaching Teshwave 
by sundown. At the same time, a ferry leaves Teshwave for 
Zhentil Keep, arriving in the late afternoon; the price is the 
same. For an additional 5 sp, one can take a ferry from Tesh 


wave to Dagger Falls, leaving in the morning. There are no 
ferries which cross the Tesh to the northern ruined section 
of the city. 

There is always a small group of 2dl0+6 burly folk idling 
about, ready to unload cargo from newly arrived ships. These 
folk are often joined by a few drunks, one or two con artists 
waiting to scam newcomers, and a few professional escorts 
who are looking for people who have not seen a friendly face 
in a while. Also, although press gangs are currently rare at 
Zhentil Keep, they do still exist. There is a 10% chance per 
two hours spent at the docks for the PCs to run afoul of a 
press gang. These gangs attempt to knock victims uncon 
scious, take their possessions, and toss them aboard their ship 
in order to serve as new crew. 

The last unusual feature of the docks is the odd things 
that wash up at the piers. The Razing and the siege that fol 
lowed wreaked a tremendous amount of death and destruc 
tion, and the resulting flotsam and jetsam continues to wash 
up, a constant reminder of those troubled days. In fact, many 
who linger at the docks tell of certain cold, misty nights, 
where the entire northern bank of the Tesh is covered in 
thick fog, and phantoms of the dead float or sail on the Tesh 
while the echoing screams of the dying sound from the 
north ruins. Some locals swear that they have seen corpse- 
lights winking in the northern ruins. Whatever is truly out 
on the river during those nights, it makes dogs howl, gives 
people nightmares, and causes clerics to momentarily falter 
in their nightly devotions. 

93. Warehouses 

A series of long, two-story warehouses lines the eastern end of 
the docks. Four patrols of four 3rd-level Zhentilar constantly 
patrol this area. The warehouses are built of stone and oak, 
with solid iron doors and tricky locks (-20% to lockpicking 
attempts). The warehouses have also been magically warded by 
the mage guild, to make them impervious to normal fires. 

Storing cargo in a warehouse costs 2 sp per square foot of 
goods per night. Stevedores idling at the docks (see the entry 
for that area) are more than happy to help carry the cargo for 
a few silver coins each. The most common cargo stored here 
is dry goods, as all food is immediately rushed to the proper 
merchants, for fear of theft. 

94. The Rhier Ttzdil GaXe 

(<\K)d> r Vs Immediate EMuirows) 

The southern portion of the city has two gates that allow 
city access. During the Razing, the River Trail Gate, which 
is the westernmost gate, was sealed up. The decision to seal 
the River Trail Gate came because the defenders correctly 
realized that they did not have adequate forces to defend to 




100 










points in the city that could be opened by an invader. Thus, 
they had to neutralize one of the openings. 

Hence, the River Trail is spiked shut from the inside with 
great iron spikes. Huge iron-reinforced beams are laid across 
the gate to bar it. Then, a large mound of debris, including 
blocks of granite, is pushed up against it. Next, two glyphs of 
warding called "Doas" are placed on the gates, each causing 
30 points of fire damage to anyone crossing the threshold 
(no saving throw). Finally, a total of 12 3rd-level Zhentarim 
have been stationed here, watching the gate. They have 
boiling oil and ballistae at the ready, just in case. 

On the gate's exterior, signs in common, elvish, dwarvish, 
and the goblin tongues tell of the gate's closing and direct all 
traffic to the Throat Gate. 

Outside the River Trail Gate 


The Throat Gate is opened from dawn to dusk. Entry and 
exit fees are collected at the Custom House. Anyone who 
wishes to enter at any other time must rouse the guards (who 
will be none too happy about it) and bribe them at least 10 
gp to open the gates. Even then, the guards will question the 
visitors extensively, demanding to know why they are arriv 
ing at such an unholy hour. It is virtually impossible to leave 
the city before dawn or after dusk. Only specially authorized 
patrols and caravans with exclusive permission may do so. 

Outside the Throat Gate 

Several structures are located immediately outside the 
Throat Gate. Even though they are outside the walls, they 
are still part of Zhentil Keep. 

Among the more interesting buildings are: 


A number of small buildings are strung along the road that 
leads to the River Trail Gate. Though located outside the city 
walls, they are still technically part of Zhentil Keep. 

Among the more interesting buildings: 

99. Keep to Yourself 

This is a small tavern for people who do not wish to enter 
the Keep, but still appreciate a place to take a load off their 
feet and hoist a few mugs. Some of the wildest rumors about 
the Keep are heard here. 

100. Residence of Tumarys 

A druid of Chauntea dwells in this simple cabin. Tumarys (N 
hem D8) is here to oversee the restoration of the land into 
farmland. He is not interested in politics; ail he wants to see is 
the restoration of the earth. For those who object to his efforts, 
a wooden whistle brings a huge brown bear, a pair of griffons, a 
pegasus, a stag, and a pack of wolves, all of which will be happy 
to deal with obnoxious intruders for their druid friend. 

95. The ThnodX Gate 

(dKid Its Immediate Btovltioxis) 

This large gate is the only way into Zhentil Keep via land. 
The road leads south to Yulash and other points south. The 
doors are made of highly polished adamantine-steel alloy, 
with nasty spikes and bas-reliefs of baatezu decorating the 
front. A portcullis drops down to seal the gate off in times of 
trouble. The gate house consists of two hemispherical tow 
ers with a blockhouse crosspiece that connects them. War 
riors can fire arrows and pour oil down on anyone who 
enters the gates. The Throat Gate is constantly manned by 
24 3rd-level Zhentilar, six 5th level Zhentilar, and presided 
over by a 7th-level Zhentilar warrior, and a 5th-level Zhen- 
tish wizard who happens to have a wand of lightning. 


101. Ugris' Accurate Maps 

Even though the city is much smaller, a map is still impor 
tant, especially since the city has changed so much. A 
sketchy map of the new city is available for 5 gp (use the Play 
ers' Map from the adventure "Buying Time" in the Adventure 
Book). Ugris (CN hm T3) is not responsible for any loss of 
life, limb, or property as a result of following the maps. 

102. Reliable Guides 

For those who distrust maps, guides can be hired for 1 gp per 
day. (A day ends at sundown, for purposes of bookkeeping.) 
Though the city itself has many independent guides who 
work for themselves, Reliable Guides provides groups of visi 
tors with knowledgeable citizens to assist them on their way. 

Most of these "knowledgeable citizens" are teenage boys 
and girls who are 1st- to 4th-level thieves. They know the city 
well because they have probably fled down every street in the 
city at least once. These "guides" are instructed not to steal 
from their clients. Any guide that does so gets a stem talking 
to and gives up 30% of the take to the owners of the business. 

Reliable Guides is owned by Goartet (CN hm T5) and 
Jenzar (CN hm F5), a pair of brothers with an allergy to hard 
work. Even though they make an effort to have guides who 
do know the city, honesty is not necessarily their policy. 

96. The Dump 

If there was ever any place on Faerun that could be mistaken 
for one of the planes of Gehenna, it is the Zhentil Keep 
dump. It is a vast tract of land with numerous mounds of 
garbage resting on moist soil. Besides normal garbage, the 
dump is a collecting ground for toxic chemicals, failed exper 
iments, animal and monster carcasses, and the secreted 
corpses of the murdered. There are numerous corpses of 
humanoids and young white dragons, remains of the attack- 











mg armies during the Razing, dumped unceremoniously into 
mounds, and covered with garbage. 

A horrendous stench emanates from the area, even in win 
ter time. Fortunately, the prevailing winds in this area blow 
from the northeast, sparing the city the bulk of the effluvium. 
The fumes that rise from the decomposing piles actually coa 
lesce into a foul mist, especially prevalent when the sun is not 
out. The mist cuts visibility to 20 feet. Occasionally (15% 
chance per day), parts of the dump spontaneously catch fire 
due to the volatile nature of some of the refuse. These fires 
(ld8 of them at any given time) release thick billows of greasy 
black smoke that stink of burning sewerage. The fires bum for 
2d6 hours. As a result, the air in the dump is dangerous to 
good health. Anyone who spends more than an hour in the 
dump runs a cumulative 5% chance per additional hour of 
contracting a respiratory disease or a blood infection. 

The farther north into the dump someone walks, the wet 
ter and more unstable the soil becomes. North of the dump, 
before the River Tesh is reached, lies a swampland that spills 
into the refuse piles. Once per turn, explorers must make a 
successful Dexterity ability check or slip and fall into a wet 
patch of filthy barren soil. If a natural 20 is rolled, the PC hits 
his head and is knocked out for ld6 rounds. In either case, 
there is a 1% chance of contracting a disease. 

It must be stressed that there is nothing of any value here, 
nothing that can be salvaged, nothing of any use whatsoever. 
This dump is every bit as bad as it is made out to be in whis 
pered tavern tales. However, there is a one-in-six chance (1 
on ld6) for an encounter, checked for every five rounds. If an 
encounter is called for, roll ld20 and consult the chart below. 


d20 Roll 

Encounter 

1 

3dl2 rats or (night only) ld6 
Zhentish sewer rats 

2 

ld6 Zhentish sewer rats 

3-4 

Rumbling, gurgling noises off in the 
distance (garbage piles settling) 

5-6 

Carrion crawler 

7 

ld2 otyughs 

8 

Shambling mound 

9-10 

ld6 diseased beggars looking for 
scraps 

11 

ld4 thieves (levels ld4+l) dumping 
a large, suspicious-looking bundle 

12 

ld8 ghouls 

13-15 

ld6 giant centipedes 

16-17 

ld4 huge spiders 

18 

Ghost (victim dumped here) 

19 

ld6 gnoll stragglers 

20 

1 will o' wisp 


Zhentilar refuse to go near the dump, as does anyone else 
with a working sense of self-preservation. As far as most cit 
izens are concerned, its presence is hidden by the city walls 
and the woods to the southeast. Thus it remains "out of 
sight, and out of mind." 

97. ShlpLUizeck PoibfC 

During the Razing, Zhentil Keep lost all of its seagoing 
fleet. The vast majority of these vessels were caught by 
white dragons and blasted frozen with icy breath weapons 
until they became miniature icebergs, floating tombs for the 
quick-frozen sailors caught within. Eventually, many of 
these vessels washed up on parts of the coast where tidal 
streams frequently swirl, resulting in a large collection of 
mined wooden vessels, shredded canvas sails, blocks of ice, 
and dead bodies. There are rumors that the dead crews rise 
as zombies, skeletons, and ghouls if someone takes too 
much of the loot. Several clerics have confirmed that the 
entire area radiates a certain aura of foreboding. (All 
attacks and saving throws are rolled with a -2 penalty, 
except for followers of Umberlee.) 

The clergy of Umberlee has announced that the area is 
consecrated to the goddess of storms, and that any who 
defile the place will be cursed. Hence, any trespassers caught 
here by the Zhentilar or the clerics of Umberlee are immedi 
ately dealt with-slain on the spot-and their bodies are 
tossed onto the shattered wrecks of the ships, while their 
valuables are tossed into the sea to appease Umberlee. 
Therefore, entire area is shunned by the locals. 

However, it remains well known that there are many 
weapons, coins, and other valuables simply lying on the 
ships and on the dead crewmembers, so not everyone is afraid 
to go there. 

98. Neuu BedcohJ UgbTbouse 

There has been but one original, brand new structure built 
in the new city of Zhentil Keep since its comeback: a light 
house for navigation. The New Beacon lighthouse was con 
structed in only two months' time, using great stone blocks 
salvaged from the siege. Lord Orgauth wisely decided that 
the need for a lighthouse was urgent, since the city needed 
to regain trade as quickly as possible in order to recover all 
the faster. Anything which could make trade easier would 
be a welcome addition, hence the New Beacon. 

The 120-foot-tall New Beacon is manned by four Zhen 
tilar fighters (LE hm F3). There are always two lookouts: 
one facing the Moonsea, the other facing upriver of the 
Tesh. Access to the lighthouse is through an archway built 
into the city wall. Two of the Zhentilar always guard this 
entrance. Tampering with the light, or failing to keep 


102 


















watch, are offenses punishable by execution. 

The mage guild has placed a specially enhanced continual 
light on the lens, enabling the light to be seen for miles. The 
city rulers intend to commission the followers of Gond to 
create a mechanism that allows the light to rotate. 


During what is later known as the Night of Crystal and 
Iron, a huge offensive spearheaded by the shaky 
alliance of white dragons and frost giants attempts to 
smash the Zhentilar defenses once and for all. The 
Zhentilar hold the line, and the attackers are repulsed. 


The Shape of 
Tbtwgs To Come 

T here is no doubt that Zhentil Keep was dealt a severe 
setback, but the city will recover and rise again. Once 
the siege forces depart, the city's reconstruction will begin in 
earnest. The citizens of the Keep, both high-born and low 
born, will put aside personal differences and vendettas and 
pitch in to rebuild the city, starting with the walls and work 
ing inward. What follows is a breakdown, by month, of 
events that will transpire in Zhentil Keep during the Year of 
the Gauntlet (1369 DR). Note that it is possible that certain 
actions by characters in individual campaigns may delay or 
even cancel out events. 

HammeR 

An unusually brutal cold front roars down from the 
North, bringing record snowfalls, high winds, and 
plummeting temperatures. The frost giants and white 
dragons laying siege to the city flourish in these condi 
tions. The harbor is almost completely frozen over; 
even if there were no ship-hating white dragons over 
head, no ship could enter or leave. 

"'*- Horse stew becomes the rage in Zhentil Keep's inns and 
taverns. 

The Moonsea cities and the Dalelands experience a 
rash of disappearances; many young men and women 
go missing. Numerous skulking figures are seen entering 
the Zhentil Keep's sewers late at night with squirming 
bundles. 

'* A messenger is sent out to the Citadel of the Raven to 
ask for military help. On his way to the Citadel, the 
messenger finds the remains of the first relief force that 
the Citadel sent, unknown to Zhentil Keep. The force 
perished shortly after the initial attack on the Keep. 

Al_TuK.Uk 

f* Starvation is now the most frequent cause of death in 
Zhentil Keep. Pathetically few caravans manage to 
struggle through the siege forces. 

J*' In response to further pleas for military help, a messen 
ger arrives from the Citadel of the Raven. The message 
sent reads: "You're on your own. Good luck." 


Cbes 

•'" Xvim ascends to complete godhood, leaving behind his 
former status of quasi-power. He is now a lesser power. 
His church, located underground, begins making plans 
for the divine debut of the Xvimist religion. 

>'"¦ A force of frost giants and gnolls attempts to cross the 
frozen Tesh in order to better attack the southern por 
tion of the city. A column of searing fire launched by an 
unknown source plummets from the sky and Instanta 
neously melts the ice, killing over 1,000 of the enemy 
as they plunge into the water and drown or freeze to 
death. Some consider this a turning point in the siege. 

<* The white dragons lose interest in the siege, and 
migrate back north to hunt and mate. 

The ice in Zhentil Keep's harbor begins breaking up. 
The first cargo ship pulls into the harbor with a full load 
of goods. 

TaKsakh 

The ice elemental Zzutam reasserts his control over the 
frost giants. The frost giants retreat northward, back to 
their frozen lands, as the weather begins to turn 
warmer. 

Naval forces from Mulmaster harry vessels attempting 
to sail to and from Zhentil Keep. Piracy in the Moonsea 
soars to record heights. 

The ice in Zhentil Keep's harbor is finally gone. Sea 
and river traffic increases. Repairs begin on the Force 
Bridge, in order to restore the gate and better control 
river traffic. Calls go out for dwarves, gnomes, the fol 
lowers of Gond, and others skilled in engineering and 
stonework, as skilled workers are needed to facilitate 
repairs. Few answer the call, though a contingent of 
Gond's followers come, inspired by the challenge of re 
pairing the bridge mechanisms. 

M)nXul 

The humanoid armies laying seige to the Keep begin 
retreating, having lost their powerful allies. The first 
Zhentilar counterattack since the beginning of the siege 
scores impressive victories for the Keep's defenders. 

m- With the ground thawing, numerous undead emerge 
from their graves (or the lack thereof) and wreak havoc 
on the city at night. 



103 











ICyTh orkj 

f * The last of the humanoid armies are finally gone. The 
13th day of the month is proclaimed a new Zhent holi 
day: Victory Day. Reconstruction now begins in earnest. 

*•- A crash program of sowing vegetables and grain crops 
begins in order to augment the city's sparse food supply. 
Pleas are sent out to druids for help. Many druids 
respond, incurring the anger of the Harpers and the 
Knights of Myth Drannor, who argue that the Keep 
does not deserve aid. The druids think otherwise, and 
cite "maintenance of the Balance" as their justification, 
as well as restoration of the local ecology. 

To go hand-in-hand with the frantic crop planting, the 
Homestead Edict is proclaimed. Deserving citizens are 
granted plots of land outside the Keep in return for 
planting food crops and tending them. 

FLa.merc.uLe 

**¦ Lord Orgauth authorizes expeditions into the northern 
section of the city, hiring adventuring parties to search 
and map out the ruins, salvaging what can be readily 
laid hold of. 

**- An envoy from the Citadel of the Raven is rebuffed. 
Orgauth cites the Citadel's indifference during the 
siege as justification for his action. 

<*• Former refugees begin trickling back into the city, as 
word spreads that the Keep still stands. In order to 
return, however, all refugees must swear an oath of loy 
alty to Lord Orgauth. 

A Red Wizard envoy from Thay visits the Tower of the 
Art. The visit is supposed to be clandestine, but Or 
gauth catches wind of it. The pit fiend decides not to 
tip his hand by interfering. 

ELeas Us 

The hot weather, combined with the many unburied 
corpses in the northern section of the Keep, causes an 
outbreak of plague in the city. The priests of Xvim wise 
ly postpone announcing the Xvirn's ascendency until 
after the plague ends. 

By Orgauth's new edict, the punishment for all crimes 
short of treason or murder is assignment to the new bur 
ial details being formed. 

i*' The Force Bridge river gate is fully functional, although 
the bridge itself does not fully connect with the north 
ern shore yet. The followers of Gond who worked on 
the bridge are granted full citizenship. The followers of 
Gond are hired for a special project, a very tightly kept 
secret. 


ELeiwT 

** The first harvest since the siege started is begun in 
the Keep. Wild celebrations are the rule of the day. 
Zhentish prices drop from their recent 50% markup 
down to only a 30% markup. 

The priests of Xvim announce the arrival of Xvim 
into the pantheon of the Faerunian deities The 
priests declare that the fire from the heavens that 
smote the giants and humanoids in the month of 
Ches came from Xvim. In fact, the priesthood claims 
that the entire retreat of the siege forces was caused 
by Xvim. 

A large number of dwarves and gnomes are killed in 
the city in the course of three nights. Some say this is 
in retaliation for their refusal to use their skills on the 
repair of the Force Bridge. 

Negotiations between the Tower of the Art and the 
Red Wizards of Thay come to a successful conclusion. 
Several Red Wizards join the guild, though they 
downplay their affiliations with the Red Wizards. The 
Keep's wizards' guild promises to aid the Thayans in 
some unspecified magical research. 

MarcpewoTb 

Amid much fanfare, the first two vessels of the Zhentil 
Keep's new navy are launched and dedicated to 
Umberlee. They are the Payback and the Revenge. 

**- A delegation from the Citadel of the Raven is finally 
received. After four days of negotiations, the com 
manders of the Citadel offer a formal apology for the 
Citadel's indifference during the siege. (Curiously, the 
Keep never acknowledges the substantial losses the 
Citadel suffered from the annihilation of the Citadel's 
initial relief force.) In addition, the Citadel arranges 
to send 2,000 Zhentilar to bolster Zhentil Keep's 
defenses. 

Zhentish goods prices drop down to normal levels for 
the Keep (only a 15% markup over the Player's Hand 
book standard rates). 

**¦ High Lord Manshoon sends more Zhentarim to Zhen 
til Keep from the Citadel of the Raven, to monitor the 
progress of the reconstruction. 

Fzoul Chembryl decides that it is time to set into 
motion his plan to seize control of the cult of Xvim. 
He begins by recruiting a half-dozen powerful priests 
and priestesses with promises of great power if they 
support him. 

>•- Lord Orgauth sends a polymorphed osyluth into the wiz 
ards' guild to spy for him. The osyluth appears to be a 











male half-elf wizard who goes by the name of Osric. 
His background story is that he hails from Darkhold. 
Osric's main mission is to keep an eye on the Red Wiz 
ards hidden in the guild. 

UKTatz 

The secret project the Gondsmen were assigned to is 
finally revealed when the vessel Revenge encounters 
five Mulman ships: Moonsea Monarch, Umberlee's 
Teeth, Bulwark, Zhentbane, and Flaming Arrow. A 
ferocious sea battle ensues, and the Revenge is discov 
ered to be armored with metal plating. It also sports a 
backup steam engine to supplement its sails. Though 
the steam engine only works briefly, it works long 
enough to allow the Revenge the extra maneuverabili 
ty it needs at a crucial moment. All five Mulman ships 
are sent to the bottom. 

**• The Gondsmen are contracted to finish reconstruc 
tion on the Force Bridge and rebuild the Tesh Bridge, 
to enable the city to be reconnected to its northern 
portion once again. The project will take months. 

<*- A clandestine group of dwarves and gnomes in the 
city vows to conduct a campaign of sabotage against 
all Zhentish construction projects. 

N) gbm 

Predictions of another harsh winter drive prices up 
again to a 30% markup. 

Lord Orgauth, in a monthly address to his people, 
vows that the following spring will bring with it the 
city's first efforts to rebuild its northern section. 

Lord Manshoon draws up plans for next year's seizure 
of power in Zhentil Keep, to bring it back under the 
absolute control of the Black Network. 

The Knights of Myth Drannor attempt to destroy the 
skeletal Tesh Bridge and the more substantial Force 
Bridge, both of which the Gondsmen have barely 
begun work on. Their rationale is unclear, and may 
have something to do with protecting the southern 
part of the city from some menace unleashed in the 
northern ruins. 

Lord Orgauth offers a bounty of 20,000 gold pieces for 
anyone who can prove she or he killed any member of 
the Knights of Myth Drannor. 


Ewemy Actions 

T he events that take place in Zhentil Keep during the 
Year of the Gauntlet are laid out in the previous sec 
tion, but its enemies' reactions to the Keep's weakened 



state for the most part are not. The city's participation in 
the Moonsea's political arena will remain low for a while, 
as it hangs back, licks its wounds, and rebuilds. However, 
many of the city's enemies have no compunction about 
getting even with the Keep for past wrongs, real (mostly) 
or imagined. In its long, bloody, treachery-stained history, 
Zhentil Keep had made many enemies, and Zhentil Keep 
was the one who initiated most of the hostilities. The list 
of the Keep's depredations is long: the betrayal at the 
Citadel of the Raven, the war in Yulash, and the seizure of 
Voonlar and Teshwave, among others. The fact that Zhen 
til Keep condoned and encouraged a slave trade did little 
to enhance its image. 

Now, however, Zhentil Keep has been brought low, 
humbled by an army sent by the very god who was to be 
the city's protector. When the Keep's long-standing ene 
mies heard this, their reactions ranged from cackling in 
glee at the city's misfortune to planning for retaliation 
while the Keep is weak. 

The Dalelands: The Dalelands have been unable to 
reach a consensus on how to respond to Zhentil Keep's 
weakened state. For now. Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale 
hires adventuring companies to scout out the Keep and its 
environs, and report to him on the progress of the Keep's 
reconstruction. 

The Harpers: Though the Harpers have an agent in 
the Keep, they have been quietly slipping in a few more 
agents and allies in order to better monitor the Keep's 
recovery. They are concerned at the harsh and evil nature 
revealed by the proclamations of Zhentil Keep's new ruler. 

Hillsfar and the Red Plumes: While no city wishes 
to weaken itself so much as to attempt a full-out siege of 
the Keep, Hillsfar's Red Plumes have begun ranging with 
impunity across lands that had previously always been 
under the control of the Zhentilar. In fact, the Red Plumes 
operate close enough to the Keep enough to actually see 
its walls off in the distance. Aside from consolidating its 
gains in Yulash, Hillsfar's forces have begun harrying sup 
ply lines to Voonlar and Teshwave in an attempt to even 
tually duplicate Hillsfar's success in Yulash. 

Mulmaster: The Mulman navy, though still rebuilding 
after its defeat at the hands of the Zhents, does not now 
limit itself to sailing only the eastern half of the Moonsea. 
It has begun patrolling the western half, as well, with the 
express purpose of boarding ships bound to and from new 
Zhentil Keep, stealing their cargo, and impressing the 
more able-bodied crewmembers. 


105 












Hall of Ktoaves 

'"Tis a shame Zhentil Keep was not destroyed during the coming of the gods. Surely it would 
have sawed the Heartlands a decade of misery at the hands of those Zhentarim dogs." 

-Mourngrym Amcathra, Lord of Shadow dale 

"Someday I'll have to do something about Manshoon and his insignificant Zhentarim." 

- Cyric, Prince of Lies 


Descnotob* 

Hf F2: THACO 18/17; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); AC 8 
(Dex.); hp 16; MV 12; SZ M (5'6" tall); AL N; ML 16. 

S 10, D 16, C 15, 1 12, W 11, Ch 16. 

Personality: Charming, flirtatious, ambitious. 

Desmonda is only well known among the male nobil 
ity of Zhentil Keep. She has discreetly been the mistress 
of about seven different nobles in succession over the 
years. Desmonda is a voluptuous redhead who looks to 
be in her mid-20s, though she is actually over 30 years 
old. She has wicked-looking violet eyes. She dresses in 
extravagant, but form-fitting, long gowns of satin, silk, 
and velvet in shades of purple, blue, and deep gold. She likes to dance and is a vivacious 
conversationalist. She hopes to one day use her connections to Zhentil Keep's nobility 
and the money she has squirreled away over the years to either retire in luxury in Sem- 
bia or weasel her way into the noble class herself through marriage. 

£$hxen.)s J 

A.k.A. La^y Desmow^A 

Erinyes (Lesser Baatezu): THACO 12; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+3 (dagger +3) or by weapon; 
AC 2; HD 6+6; hp 54; MV 12, FI 21 (C); SA Use of one of the following abilities, 
1/round, at will: advanced illusion, animate dead, charm person, detect invisibility, infravi 
sion, invisibility, polymorph self, produce flame, suggestion, teleport without error; fear at will; 
know alignment (always active); charm; gate 1/day either ld8 spinagons (50% chance) or 
ld4 barbazu (35% chance), leaving a 15% chance of failing to gate anything; SD Half 
damage from gas and cold; immune to fire damage, poison, and cold iron weapons; +1 or 
better weapons to hit (except silver ones); SW Can be hit by nonmagical silver 
weapons; MR 30%; SZ M (6' tall); INT High (14); AL LE; ML 12; XP 7,000; MI rope of 
entanglement. 

Lady Desmonda is the companion and consort of Lord Orgauth. ("Lady" is a cour 
tesy title; the two have not been married -yet.) Desmonda is in truth the erinyes 
Eshaeris, who was gated in by Abarax (see the section below on Lord Orgauth) and 
assumed the identity of Desmonda in the confusion following the destruction of much 
of the Keep in the Year of the Banner (1368 DR). While Desmonda and Orgauth had 
no relationship prior to the events of 1368 DR, the jaded citizens of Zhentil Keep find 
it easy to believe that they had simply not been allowed to know that the two were 
more than passing acquaintances. With the death of Lord Orgauth's wife and children 


































during the siege of the Keep, Orgauth's seeking solace 
in Desmonda's company is easy for most people to 
understand. 

As an erinyes, Eshaeris can cause fear in any creature 
that gazes upon her. She also possesses a charm ability 
that can be used against anyone within 60 feet that she 
gazes at; her victim need not return her stare. These vic 
tims must make a successful saving throw vs. spell as if 
they were half of their normal level or they are utterly 
obedient to her. Thus, a 12th-level fighter would make 
the save as if he were a 6th-level fighter. However, 
Eshaeris can only have one being at a time under her 
thrall. 

When in her Lady Desmonda form, Eshaeris appears 
to be physically identical to Desmonda. She dresses 
much differently though, wearing a tight black leather 
halter, a black silk skirt with a long up one side, and 
a long black cloak with fastener made of gold chain. 
She carries a dagger +3 on her belt as well as a rope of 
entanglement disguised as a nine-tailed whip. She claims 
the "whip" is a holy symbol of Loviatar, whom she pur 
ports to worship. 


Fzo ul ChembRvL 

Hm C16: THACO 10, 6 
mace +4, 9 silver morn 
ing star +1 or staff of the 
serpent (adder); #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6+4 (mace +4), 
2d4+ 1 (silver morning 
star +1), ld6+l (silver 
footman's flail), 2d2+ 
poison if serpent's head 
used (staff of the serpent); 
AC -1 (Dex., bracers of 
AC 2, cloak of the bat) or 
-3 (Dex., full plate armor, bracers of AC 2, cloak of the 
bat); hp 86; MV 12 (or 6); SA Priest spells; SD Move 
ment and attacks unimpeded by web, hold, slow, or 
being under water; 90% chance of being invisible when 
stationary or in a shadowy or dark place; SZ M; AL LE; 
ML 15; MI Bone mask*, cloak of the bat, three blocks of 
incense of meditation, ring of free action, ring of spell storing 
(DMs should define this for their campaigns), rod of can 
cellation. 



S 12, D 15, C 16, I 14, W 17, Ch 13. 

Personality: Political, insidious, devious. 

Spells (9/9/8/6/4/3) :1st: Bless, call upon faith (ToM), 
cause fear, cure light wounds, detect magic, detect poison, 


protection from good, poison food & drink, remove fear; 
2nd: Augury, create holy symbol (ToM), find traps, hesita 
tion (ToM), hold person*2, know alignment, mind read 
(ToM), silence 1.5' radius, wyvern watch; 3rd: Bestow 
curse, cause blindness, dispel magic, emotion control 
(ToM), miscast magic (ToM), negative plane protection, 
prayer, speak with dead; 4th: Abjure, divination, cause seri 
ous wounds, poison, protection from lightning, tongues; 5th: 
Cure critical wounds, battletide**, mindshatter (ToM), 
raise dead; 6th: Blade barrier, Sol's searing orb (ToM), word 
of recall. 

ToM=Tome of Magic. *The bone mask is described in the "Magical 
Items" appendix. **Battletide is detailed in the "New Spells" appendix. 


Fzoul is wily, glib-tongued, burly, and handsome. The 
foremost priest of the Zhentarim leads the Black Net 
work in times of Manshoon's absence or indisposition. 
He is a cruel, mean-spirited man who dreams of attain 
ing immortality or even godhood. He has red hair and a 
mustache, and he usually wears the full panoply of cere 
monial garments of a high priest both in public and pri 
vate. A consummate politician, Fzoul has something 
good to say for anyone who can do him good, and noth 
ing but scorn for those who cannot affect his career. He 
is also quite patient. His exploitation of the intricacies of 
Banite politics to gain power had been slow, but sure, 
before the unfortunate demise of Bane and ascendancy 
of Cyric. 

Fzoul is the only child of a minor noble of Zhentil 
Keep. He entered the priesthood of Bane at an early age, 
using his skill as an administrator to move rapidly 
through the ranks of the church. Fzoul's differing doctri 
nal interpretations (combined with his ambition) caused 
him to break from the orthodox church of Bane, taking 
many Banites with him into the ranks of Manshoon's 
Zhentarim. 

Fzoul and those of his faction felt that the proper wor 
ship of the god of tyranny is to support a tyrant, and the 
most efficient tyrant around was Manshoon. Once with 
in the ranks of the Zhentarim, of course, power also sang 
its siren song to Fzoul, motivating him and others under 
his influence to remain in the Black Network. Fzoul is 
careful to remain necessary to and friends with Man 
shoon while keeping as much power as possible in his 
own hands. He wants to make sure that Manshoon 
never considers him expendable or a threat so powerful 
that he must be destroyed at all costs. (Manshoon 
believes Fzoul to be a master administrator, and in 
valuable to the Zhentarim. In fact, because of his long 
standing previous command of many of the (now) 


107 





















priests of Cyric within the Zhentarim, Fzoul's influence 
with the everyday members of that organization is actu 
ally greater than Manshoon's.) 

Fzoul's main ambition before the Year of Shadows was 
to be the true leader of the worship of Bane in Zhentil 
Keep. The death of Bane at the hands of Torm was dev 
astating to Fzoul. Following the death of his god and a 
personal encounter with the new god Cyric, Fzoul con 
verted to the worship of the new Prince of Lies - 
extremely reluctantly. Fzoul remained with the church of 
Cyric as an administrator, leaving the duties of high 
priest to the newly appointed Maskul Mirrormane. 
Maskul was succeeded as high priest by his brother Xeno 
after the Banedeath. 

For a decade Fzoul suffered through the grinding do 
mination of Cyric within the walls of Zhentil Keep. The 
former Banite repeatedly urged Manshoon to move the 
Black Network's base of operations to either the Citadel 
of the Raven or Darkhold before all was lost; he was qui 
etly most gratified when Manshoon moved most Zhen 
tarim operations to the Citadel of the Raven over a period 
of six months at the end of in the Year of the Sword (1365 
DR). After the creation of the Cyrinishad, the death of 
Mirrormane, and the destruction of his home, Fzoul fled 
to Teshwave with a large contingent of Zhentilar troops. 
Unsure of his next move, Fzoul spent many months under 
the watchful eye of the beholder Manxam, waiting for the 
gods to play their hands and determine his next move. 

Fzoul's prayers were answered with the reemergence of 
Iyachtu Xvim, Godson of Bane and heir to the throne of 
the god of strife. Fzoul learned of the return of Xvim, absent 
for over a decade from Faerun, through refugee from what 
remained of Zhentil Keep. Since then, the former priest 
has returned to the remnants of his home to regain direc 
tion in his life. Fzoul has just recently made contact with 
the new cult of Xvim, and has offered his services as admin 
istrator and high priest. He plans to take over the cult of 
Xvim and induct its members into the Black Network, thus 
regaining control over the same sort of power bloc within 
that organization that he once possessed. 

Having seen his ally Manshoon rise to power largely 
due to beholder support, Fzoul had tried in the past to 
win some eye tyrants to his personal cause, hoping to pre 
vail if things ever came to open conflict between himself 
and High Lord Manshoon. To accomplish this, he tried 
to manipulate certain beholders into rivalries and dissen 
sion with their fellows. He was soon humiliated by sever 
al eye tyrants who made it crushingly apparent that they 
were fully aware of all crude human attempts to manipu 
late them - and that in the event of strife among behold 


ers, all Zhentarim, and indeed all beings of Faerun, were 
cattle to be sacrificed at whim or will. 

The furious Fzoul wracked his brains for an alternative 
secret weapon he could use against Manshoon's eye 
tyrants - and keep loyal to himself. He soon hit upon the 
idea of forcibly creating death tyrants (undead beholders) 
subject to his control, and has been secretively pursuing 
this goal for some time now. He has eight death tyrants 
awaiting his orders in a hidden fortress-refuge somewhere 
in Faerun. This refuge is also equipped with food, water, 
healing potions and other magical items, and various sorts 
of golem servants. Fzoul can flee to this refuge - possibly 
in the wastes of Thar or the northern Thunder Peaks - 
by means of a word of recall, but does so only in direst 
emergencies. 

Lorzd On .gauTh 

Hm F10: THACO 11/10, 

9 bastard sword +2 or 
light crossbow of distance; 
#AT 3/2 (bastard sword 
+2) or 1 (light crossbow 
of distance); Dmg 2d4+3 
(bastard sword +2); 
ld4+l (light crossbow of 
distance); AC -1 (Dex., 
plate mail +2); hp 66; 
MV 12; SZ M (6' tall); 
AL NE; ML 16; MI 
Crossbow of distance, eyes of the eagle, ring of human influ 
ence. 

S 16, D 16, C 15, I 15, W 16, Ch 16 (18 for humans 
and humanoids). 

Personality: Ruthless, subtle, disarmingly blunt. 

Lord Orgauth is a human male in early middle age. 
His dark hair is graying at the temples, and he usually 
wears it tied into a ponytail. His eyes are cold and gray, 
and his skin is weather-beaten and brown from the sun. 
He has a scar on his chin and a generous mustache. He 
often wears the russet and scarlet color of his livery; his 
family arms are a russet raven striking, talons out, on a 
scarlet field. His personal arms, which were bestowed 
upon him for his faithful service in the army of Zhentil 
Keep, are a rising sun behind a tower on a scarlet field. 
Orgauth rarely uses his personal device, although an old 
lady friend of his had it made into a silver cloak fastener 
that he occasionally dons at feasts. In combat he wears 
his plate armor and wields a bastard sword two-handed. 





108 















He carries his eyes of the eagle in a pouch for use with his 
crossbow of distance. 

Lord Orgauth seems to be a simple merchant-fighter, 
blunt in his ways and possessing just enough bare cunning 
to survive as a trader in an essentially evil city. Actually, 
Orgauth is a ruthless, subtle schemer. 

Orgauth is torn between his lust for control and his 
wish to maintain the trade relations that enrich him. 
Outwardly, he supports the Zhentarim (indeed his goals 
and its often coincide), but he also supports activities 
that work against the Zhentarim, or betrays its more 
reckless or ill-founded projects, he works to maintain the 
rule of Maalthiir in Hillsfar as a check against the expan 
sionist policies of the Zhentarim. He believes that an 
empire centered on Zhentil Keep would overreach and 
weaken the city's military strength and earn it the enmi 
ty of those conquered, which would hurt his trade 
prospects. One of his major allies is Manxam the behold 
er, who lairs in Teshwave. 

As the younger son of one of the nobles of Zhentil 
Keep, Orgauth devoted himself to warfare for 15 years, 
fighting many times in the armies of Zhentil Keep. In the 
meantime, his father and older brother died, and 
Orgauth retired from the military to become one of the 
lords of Zhentil Keep. He earned much respect as a sea 
soned veteran of the Moonsea wars and is now a wealthy 
merchant in his own right. 

He has built his ore-refining (mostly taking ore from a 
mine he discovered in a campaign against the ores) and 
caravan-running concerns into much coinage, and he 
maintains, in the guise of a normal work force, a strong 
bodyguard of about 60 or 70 soldiers. This last shrewd 
measure undoubtedly has ensured his own survival in the 
noble hierarchy of Zhentil Keep throughout the rise of 
the Zhentarim. There have been several attempts on his 
life from rivals among the Zhentarim, and all have failed, 
thanks to the watchfulness of his bodyguard. 

Manshoon considers Orgauth one of his loyal opposi 
tion, one of those nobles who do not see the wisdom in 
Zhentil Keep's expansionism, but support him still as the 
best person to run the city. Orgauth is also consulted by 
Lord Chess, and Orgauth frequently argues for the Zhen 
tarim cause to him. He works against the Zhentarim on a 
more subtle level. 

Orgauth's bodyguard, commonly stationed in his 
citadel in southeastern Zhentil Keep, consists of five 5th- 
level fighters (the sergeants who lead the others), nine 
4th-level fighters, 12 3rd-level fighters, 20 2nd-level fight 
ers, and 30 lst-level fighters. All of these fighters are 
trained in riding, spear, short bow, and broad sword and 


shield. They are not actually an effective cavalry force, 
but they can stay on their horses long enough to get to a 
battle, where they dismount to fight. Orgauth's real work 
force consists of about 50 folk (0-level fighters) who are 
being trained in both warfare and surveillance. 

Orgauth is the kind of villain one hates to hate. He has 
a certain courtesy and gentility that most of the Zhen 
tarim lack. He is an evil man, but he does not want to 
spread his form of villainy all over the Inner Sea as the 
Zhentarim do. He wants to be left alone to oppress his 
workers, buy and sell slaves, and manipulate the minerals 
markets for his own profits. 

If commanded by the Zhentarim to kill player charac 
ters, he will certainly try to do so. His first priority is his 
own well-being. Still, if he thought that some player 
characters might put a stick between the spokes of the 
wheel of the Zhentarim advance, he might look the other 
way and let them continue rather than reveal them to 
Manshoon. After all, if Manshoon and Fzoul were 
destroyed, a man could get back to making a dishonest 
profit in peace again, and Zhentil Keep would be a much 
less stressful place to live. 

He can be contacted through his offices in his citadel. 
He is generally in Zhentil Keep, though he occasionally 
accompanies his caravans elsewhere around the Moon- 
sea. If encountered with a caravan, he has one troop (25 
soldiers) of his bodyguard with him. The rest are minding 
the home front. 


AbaKAX, 

A.k.A. Lonb Oiz gauTb 


Pit Fiend (Greater Baatezu): THAC0 7; #AT 6; Dmg 

ld4 (wing)/ld4 (wing)/ld6 (claw)/ld6 (claw) or ld6+6 
(jagged club)/2d6 +poison and disease (bite)/2d4 (tail) or 
2d4+8 (bastard sword +2); AC -5 or -7 (plate mail +2); 
HD 13; hp 104; MV 15, FI 24 (C); SA Use of one of the 
following abilities, 1/round, at will: advanced illusion , ani 
mate dead, charm person, detect magic, detect invisibility, fire 
ball, gate (two lesser baatezu or one greater baatezu), hold 
person, unproved invisibility, infravision, polymorph self, pro 
duce flame, pyrotechnics, suggestion, teleport without error, 
wall of fire; fear aura (20-foot radius); know alignment 
(always active); symbol of pain 1/day; wish 1/year; poiso 
nous bite; tail constriction after initial successful hit; SD 
Half damage from gas, cold, and nonmagical silver 
weapons; immune to fire damage, poison, and cold iron 
weapons; regenerate 2 hp/round; +3 or better weapons to 
hit (except silver ones); SW Can be hit by nonmagical 
silver weapons; MR 50%; SZ L (12' tall); INT Genius 
(18); AL LE; ML 20; XP 21,000; tongues amulet. 


109 












Abarax the pit fiend began impersonating Lord 
Orgauth after the destruction of the majority of the 
Zhentil Keep in the Year of the Banner (1368 DR). 
Abarax uses his polymorph self to appear physically identi 
cal to Lord Orgauth (see above), but retains his own nat 
ural toughness in his Orgauth form, along with all his 
nonphysical abilities. Lord Orgauth as portrayed by 
Abarax is best described as sinisterly handsome. Abarax 
normally communicates with telepathy, but to further his 
disguise as Orgauth he wears an amulet that operates as a 
permanent tongues spell. When Abarax is polymorphed to 
look like Orgauth, the amulet becomes part of his form. 
When Abarax is in his true shape, the amulet hangs from 
a chain around his neck. 

In combat situations (when in disguise), Abarax 
wears Orgauth's plate mail +2, which boosts his Armor 
Class to -7, and wields Orgauth's sword, a bastard sword 
+2. When not equipped for combat, Abarax's taste in 
clothing is considerably different from Orgauth's; he 
favors expensive black silk shirts, black trousers and 
boots, and he constantly wears a long, black cloak fas 
tened with a silver chain and fastener that bears 
Orgauth's personal crest, a rising sun behind a tower on a 
scarlet field. Those who knew the real Orgauth might 
begin to suspect something is amiss by noting this drastic 
change of wardrobe preference. 


MawsbooN] 
of the ZheNtARim 


Hm M 1 9 : THACO 
14/15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
(staff of the magi); AC 0 
(Dex., battle gorget, brac 
ers of defense AC 3); hp 
63; MV 12; SA Wizard 
spells; victims of his 
charm monster, charm 
person, friends, hold 
monster, hold person, 
polymorph other or sug 
gestion spells have -20% 
to their magic resistance and -4 to their saving throws; 
SD Permanent protection from normal missiles spell; +3 
bonus to saving throws vs. spell; +1 bonus to all other 
saving throws; can absorb spell energy directed at him 
while using staff of the magi; MR 5%; SZ M (5'11" tall); 
AL LE; ML Elite (14); MI Battle gorget, brooch of shield 
ing, ring of spell storing (DMs should define this for their 



campaigns), ring of spell turning (kept in pocket), ring of 
wizardry (doubles 4th- and 5th-level spells), black robes 
of the archmagi, rod of beguiling with 28 charges, staff of 
the magi with 17 charges, wand of magic detection with 81 
charges. 

S 10, D 16, C 16, I 18, W 16, Ch 18. 

Personality: Cruel, calculating, careful. 

Spells (5/5/5/10/10/3/3/3/1*): 1st: Burning hands, 
charm person, magic missile, shocking grasp, unseen ser 
vant; 2nd: Blindness, darkness 1.5' radius, ESP, ray of 
enfeeblement, stinking cloud; 3rd: Clairaudience, dispel 
magic, hold person, lightning bolt, suggestion; 4th: Charm 
monster, confusion, dimension door, emotion, fire shield, 
improved invisibility, magic mirror, stoneskin, polymorph 
other, wall of fire; 5th: Advanced illusion, chaos, cloudkill, 
conjure elemental, cone of cold, feeblemind, magic jar, pass- 
wall, shadow magic, teleport; 6th: Disintegrate, project 
image, true seeing; 7th: Finger of death, teleport without 
error, vanish; 8th: Polymorph any object, symbol, trap the 
soul; 9th: Imprisonment. 

*Includes doubling for ring of wizardry. 


Manshoon of the Zhentarim is an average-sized 
human male who usually wears a mask under his hooded 
robe. It is often difficult to tell, however, when he is 
masked and when he is not, as the mask is rumored to be 
enchanted to disguise its wearer's face to look as he 
wishes. Only the few who knew Manshoon in his child 
hood know his original appearance, and he may have 
permanently polymorphed his face to another form since 
then. Manshoon often further masks his appearance 
with magic when venturing into the streets of Zhentil 
Keep or the Citadel of the Raven. Despite his average 
build and countenance, Manshoon carries himself with 
a palpable aura of authority. He tends to dress in dark 
colors such as black, charcoal, dark purple, deep red, and 
maroon. Of course, all outfits are topped by his black 
robe of the archmagi. 

Manshoon is the eldest son of the renowned warrior 
Harlshoon, first lord of Zhentil Keep. Manshoon 
learned at an early age that the best spot to occupy in a 
tyranny is the tyrant's seat. His tyrannical father abused 
his power over his children, and Manshoon decided 
that no one would again have that authority over him. 
After his father's death, Manshoon slew his only broth 
er, Asmuth, so none could oppose his quest to control 
Zhentil Keep. 

Manshoon's political cunning, personal wealth, and 
constant pursuit of the Art soon earned him the status 
of master wizard. It is thought that Manshoon's spell li- 


110 

















brary is equal to that of Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun. 
His arsenal of magical devices and weapons is rumored 
to be the largest held by a single mage anywhere in the 
Realms, although is it scattered in many hidden loca 
tions that are guarded by spells and monsters. His per 
sonal wealth has surely increased his collection of magi 
cal items beyond that of Khelben. One item of his own 
devising, which Manshoon always wears, is his battle 
gorget. (It is described in the "Magical Items" appendix.) 

Over the years, Manshoon easily took control of the 
city's governing council by skill, intrigue, and the sup 
port of well-cultivated allies, including beholders and a 
faction of the church of Bane led by Fzoul Chembryl. 
With his power base secured, Manshoon then created 
the Zhentarim. Since its founding in Zhentil Keep, the 
Zhentarim has established an iron grip over that city, 
Darkhold, and the Citadel of the Raven. The Black 
Network is Manshoon's tool for acquiring complete 
control over the Heartlands and beyond. His ultimate 
goal is the total domination of the Realms from the 
Sunrise Mountains to the Sword Coast. Then, perhaps, 
he will feel safe and sure that no will be able to tyrannize 
him again. 

Although others face danger at his bidding, Man 
shoon is almost never there when heroes fight their way 
to the heart of a matter. Despite his considerable per 
sonal power and magical resources, Manshoon is quite 
content to flee from battle. Many have tried to kill the 
master of the Zhentarim; none have completely suc 
ceeded. He has died several times, only to have a stasis 
clone "reborn" later as a result of contingency spells. (Sta 
sis clone is a spell Manshoon developed, and he alone 
knows it. It is described in the "New Spells" appendix.) 
Manshoon's stasis clones are the source of awed rumors 
about his many resurrections. He is known to have sev 
eral hidden crypts containing multiple stasis clones, 
both in Zhentil Keep and elsewhere in (and under) 
Faerun. 

Manshoon once spent an entire year in seclusion, 
pretending to be a convert to the worship of Lathander 
in a monastic community in Sembia. While there, he 
pretended to be meditating on the uses of magic to fur 
ther growth and agricultural fertility. In reality, he spent 
day after day employing improved wizard eye spells in a 
survey of the lands between the Thunder Peaks and the 
Dragon Reach. (Manshoon's longseeing eye is a 5th-level 
spell identical to the familiar 4th-level wizard eye, except 
that its duration is two turns per level.) Tirelessly Man 
shoon probed every back alley, footpath, trail, ruin, cav 
ern, and underground passage. Today, he recalls the gen 


eral layout of all communities in Sembia, the Dalelands, 
and the western Moonsea -and of the Underdark 
beneath them all. He knows exactly where all the con 
nections between the surface Realms and the Lands 
Below are (or were, about two decades before 1368 DR). 
He has exhaustively examined, committed to memory, 
and used locales suited for lookout sites and for seclusion 
throughout both the surface and underground areas so 
that they are either "studied carefully" or "very familiar" 
destinations for teleport spells. 

A few years after the Time of Troubles, Manshoon 
began relocating the Zhentarim base of operations from 
Zhentil Keep to the Citadel of the Raven. This realign 
ment was due mainly to the insane preoccupation of 
Cyric, Prince of Lies, with the city. As the young god's 
authority in Zhentil Keep began to grow to fanatical 
proportions, Manshoon saw the need to abandon a city 
on the verge of self-destruction. When Zhentil Keep was 
destroyed in the Cyrinishad fiasco, Manshoon was snug 
in the Citadel, sipping tea, and he only left briefly to 
teleport out a few "useful" people. 

The archmage's plans for the future are uncertain, 
though they may include the rebuilding of Zhentil Keep. 
The expansion of the Zhentarim to the Western Heart 
lands is also important to Manshoon, including securing 
and northern trade route to Waterdeep through Anau- 
roch, and further developing and expanding routes 
through the southern Realms. 

The High Lord of Zhentil Keep is a supremely co&- 
dent master manipulator who maintains an icy calm as 
he plays rivals and dangerous underlings endlessly 
against each other. He never lets his temper master his 
reason, and is always alert. He knows he is hated and 
feared -and cares not a whit, so long as he can control 
life and events in as much of the Realms around him as 
possible. Power is his god, and the subtle use of it is his 
greatest satisfaction. 

SememmoN 
of Ddrikhold 

Hm M15: THACO 16, 15 quarterstaff +1 or dagger of 
venom +1; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+2 (quarterstaff +1) or 
ld4+l+poison (dagger of venom +1); #AT 1; AC 1 
(Dex., bracers of defense AC 2); hp 56; MV 12; SA Wiz 
ard spells; SD Ioun stone absorbs spells of up to 8th level; 
SZ M (5'10" tall); AL LE; ML Elite (13); MI Brooch of 
shielding, gargoyle cloak, helm of teleportation, ioun stone 
(lavender and green ellipsoid) with 64 spell levels 




111 










remaining, periapt of 
proof against poison, ring 
of regeneration, robe of 
blending, wand of light 
ning with 27 charges. 

S 9, D 15, C 9, I 18, 
W 16, Ch 14. 

Personality: Ruthless, 
haughty, scheming. 

Spells (5/5/5/5/5/2/1): 
1st: Detect magic, magic 
missile, sleep, unseen ser 
vant, wall of fog; 2nd: Alter self, detect invisibility, 
improved phantasmal force, stinking cloud, wizard lock; 3rd: 
Dispel magic, fireball, protection from evil 10' radius, pro 
tection from normal missiles, slow; 4th: Detect scrying, 
improved invisibility, ice storm, stoneskin, wizard eye; 5th: 
Cloudkill, cone of cold, dismissal, teleport, wall of stone; 
6th: Disintegrate, globe of invulnerability; 7th: Howling 
horror. 

Sememmon is a middle-aged man in excellent 
health. He has thick, black hair with no beard or mus 
tache. While within the confines of Darkhold, Semem 
mon wears multihued robes befitting his stature as ruler 
of the castle. When traveling he dons his robe of blend 
ing and uses magical spells to mask his appearance. 

Sememmon, the commander of Darkhold, is one of 
many former apprentices of Manshoon of the Zhen- 
tarim. He is a ruthless mage who ascended through the 
ranks of the Black Network by dint of anticipating 
treachery and unhesitatingly indulging in the merciless 
murder of underlings and rivals who sought to challenge 
his power. Seeing the mage's promise, Manshoon pro 
moted Sememmon to the Network's Inner Circle fol 
lowing the death of a former member. Sememmon is the 
youngest member of the Inner Circle and patiently 
awaits the day when Fzoul and Manshoon turn on each 
other. He plans for the day when he either must help 
the winner, or must take command himself in the event 
his seniors destroy each other. In the meantime, his 
generally neutral stance provides stability in the Inner 
Circle. 

Sememmon's neutrality in Zhentarim politics reflects 
his prudent, planning nature. He is continually 
involved in plots that may take months or years to 
reach full fruition. To him, temporary setbacks are only 
building blocks to final victory. 

An able commander, Sememmon has succeeded in 
staying alive because he studies his underlings carefully. 


using scrying spells of all sorts to eavesdrop on their 
doings and to trace their whereabouts, and because is he 
is immune to poison and does not require sleep. He 
eliminated his need to sleep long ago by applying to 
himself a powerful necromantic magic of his own devis 
ing, although he still needs to enter a light meditative 
state for a period of time before rememorizing any 
spells. His immunity to poison has been much more 
mundanely acquired through a periapt of proof against 
poison. 

Sememmon remains loyal to Lord Manshoon, who 
treats him as a trusted lieutenant. Fzoul Chembryl, on 
the other hand, prefers that Sememmon remain far 
removed from the everyday workings of the Black Net 
work and Zhentil Keep. As a result, after the defeat of 
the lich-queen Varalla and the conquest of Darkhold, 
Sememmon was given control of that castle holding. 
This is a position important enough to merit his atten 
tion, but not so important that either Fzoul or Man 
shoon thinks that he poses a threat. Darkhold is also far 
enough away to keep Fzoul from growing to hate 
Sememmon so much that it becomes an all-consuming 
(and time-consuming) obsession. From Darkhold he is 
to spread the influence of the Zhentarim westward and 
develop control over the trade routes between the 
Sword Coast and the Moonsea. 

Death means little to Sememmon, and he does not 
fear it in any way. The wizard has in fact been slain sev 
eral times, and his present mortal form is a clone created 
by Manshoon after Harpers destroyed his true physical 
form. Manshoon currently guards some tissue belonging 
to Sememmon, guaranteeing the mage's loyalty should 
he perish again. 

Sememmon often wears his gargoyle cloak when going 
into known strife. (This cloak is described in the "Mag 
ical Items" appendix.) One of his favorite spells is the 
howling horror enchantment he devised. (Howling horror 
is detailed in the "New Spells" appendix.) Both of these 
magics have won several sorcerous duels for him, and 
aid him in keeping down the treacheries of overly ambi 
tious Zhentarim magelings. Sememmon constantly 
travels the Heartlands, ensuring his plans and those of 
the Zhentarim are followed to the letter -often taking 
it upon himself to do the job personally. The mage has 
made Darkhold a nearly impregnable fortress, with 
dozens of magical and mechanical traps. Many of these 
traps guard the Zhentarim's magical experiments and 
enchanted items, created and stored deep in the heart 
of the castle. 

















AppeN)£"x I- 

Necu Realms 
PouueRS 

B he destruction of Zhentil Keep was in part a reflection of a greater 
struggle in the domains of the gods, as Cyric, through intrigue and 
manipulation, sought to expand his influence further among the godly 
powers of the Realms. When the dust finally cleared, Cyric had been 
driven mad, a new Lord of the Dead was created, and Mask, the god of 
thieves, was left with his exact fate unrevealed. This section clarifies the present situa 
tion (as best as such matters can be clarified) and details the abilities of the various spe 
cialty priests of these deities. 



(Prince of Lies, Prince of Madness, 
the Dark Sun) 

"For an instant, the Prince of Lies heard the bubble of voices in his head 
chime harmonious agreement. None of them coidd deny his absolute 
supremacy over all the gods in Faerun. The Cyrinishad proved the truth of 
that, and Cyric himself had read the tome very carefully." 


- Prince of Lies 


Greater Power of Pandemonium, CE 


Portfolio: 

Requirements: 

Weapons Allowed: 
Armor Allowed: 
Major Spheres: 

Minor Spheres: 


Murder, strife, lies, intrigue, deception 
Wisdom 13 
Strength 13 

All bludgeoning weapons and long swords 
Any 

All, Astral, Charm, Combat, Guardian, Healing, Necroman 
tic, Summoning, Sun, Weather 
Divination, Elemental, Protection 


Magical Items Allowed: Same as clerics 


GlZAK)Te& Pold&zs 

• Specialty priests of Cyric can turn or command undead. 

• Specialty priests of Cyric gain a +1 to saving throws against spells using illusion/ phan 
tasm magic. 

• Specialty priests of Cyric are unaffected by fear spells and other emotion-altering 
magic. They can still be charmed and are subject to enchantment/charm spells in 
general, provided those spells have no direct effect on the emotions. 

• At 5th level, specialty priests of Cyric may summon an aerial servant (as per the spell 
aerial servant). This servant will fight for the priest (contrary to normal restrictions on 
the spell) and can act as a magical assassin. Only one aerial servant may be summoned 
per month (30 days), and only one may be controlled at a time. 

• At 15th level, specialty priests of Cyric may instill madness. This ability is similar to the 







113 












feeblemind wizard spell, with the exception that no 

Wisdom adjustments are made to the saving throw, and 

the priest of Cyric must touch his or her target. 

The destruction of Zhentil Keep, along much of the rest 
of the woes of Faerun, may be laid at the feet of Cyric, 
known as the Dark Sun, the Prince of Lies, and the 
Prince of Madness. In an attempt to further enhance his 
own power, Cyric created the Cyrinishad, a book that 
purports to be the truth about Cyric's greatness, but in 
reality is enchanted to bind the reader slavishly to 
believing that Cyric is the most important being in the 
universe, exceeding all others. Cyric made the serious 
error of reading his own book, and is now mad, believing 
that he himself is the center of the universe, and every 
thing that occurs is by his direct intervention. (The arti 
fact known as the Cyrinishad is described in the "Magical 
Items" appendix.) 

The Power: Cyric's madness has taken a number of 
forms, including visions and a continual chorus of voic 
es that burble and moan in the back of his mind. These 
voices may be parts of Cyric's own shattered conscious 
ness, or they may be the remains of the gods that Cyric 
slew or usurped the portfolios of. The uncharitable 
declare that Cyric's madness is the logical outcome of 
his attempts to dominate the Realms, but these individ 
uals make those comments very quietly, for Cyric 
retains a great deal of his power and all of his vengeful 
nature. 

Cyric has fled Bone Castle, leaving it and the portfo 
lio of death, and the dead to Kelemvor. He now has built 
a twisted, ever-changing castle in Pandemonium, and he 
uses it as base for his future plans for the Realms. Such 
plans have thus far met varying degrees of success, but 
Cyric believes that the results are as he himself has 
declared - since he is the most powerful being in the 
universe. 

Cyric hates the other gods, much like Xvim, but in 
Cyric's case he believes the other gods to be his pup 
pets, easily fooled and defeated, existing only on his 
whim. 

The Ethos: Cyric's abandonment of the portfolio of 
death and the dead has freed him to embrace much of 
where his true heart lies - treachery, deception, strife, 
and disaster. Random violence is never as good as vio 
lence that serves some greater, more dangerous purpose. 
Plans and counterplans can twist and turn on them 
selves, such that a defeat in one area can bring overall 
victory for the Dark Sun. 

Any means, any method, any sacrifice or treachery is 


allowed if it brings about the desired end. Cyric's bane is 
not that he lacks the power to effect his desires - in real 
ity, it is that he has so many (sometimes conflicting) 
desires that his plans (and those of his clergy) often work 
against themselves. 

The Clergy: The clergy of Cyric benefited from a 
decade of growth and consolidation before the events 
that drove their god mad. They absorbed a great many 
of the worshipers of Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul, and even 
the revelation of the demise of Leira has swollen the 
church's ranks. Cyric, though now a few monks shy of a 
monastery, remains closely involved with the upper 
ranks of his clergy. His high priests are expected to carry 
out his orders, regardless of how dangerous or odd they 
may seem. 

Some priests carry out their tasks as enthusiastically 
as they had before. Others seek to obey the letter of any 
directives while changing the spirit of them. A few note 
(quietly and cynically) that as Cyric replaced the gods 
before him, so too might Cyric be replaced. 

Priests of Cyric dress in black or dark purple robes, 
with or without hoods. Silver bracers are worn on the 
wrists, and some priests paint the symbol of their deity 
on their cheeks or foreheads. Cyric's symbol is a white 
skull (sans jawbone) on a dark purple sunburst. The sun 
burst is also sometimes rendered in black when color is 
inappropriate or the rendition is in two tones. 

Cyric's faith attracts power, and it remains strong in 
any area where evil is planned and beings seek to im 
press their will on others. Members of the clergy are 
always aware of the possibility that a superior may stum 
ble, allowing them to advance. Some priests are en 
couraged by inner voices that may or may not be the 
spirit of their deity. 

lyachTu Xv'im 

(The Go&sok) of Bawe) 

"Those knowledgeable in the ways of 
the gods have long known that Xvim 
wished to see his father dead. How 
ironic for him that he got his wish, only 
to see Bane replaced by someone even 
more powerful!" 

-Elminster of Shadowdale 

Lesser Power of Gehenna, LE 

Portfolio: Tyranny, hatred 

Requirements: Wisdom 10 

Strength 12 





114 











Weapons Allowed: All nonmissile bludgeoning 

weapons and javelins 
Armor Allowed: A n y 

Major Spheres: All, Combat, Divination, Ele 

mental, Guardian, Necro 
mantic, Summoning 

Minor Spheres: Sun (reversed effects only). 

Healing (reversed effects 
only). Creation 
Magical Items Allowed: Same as clerics 

GriAK)Ted> Pouoeizs 

• Specialty priests of Xvirn can turn or command 
undead. 

• Specialty priests of Xvim gain a +1 to saving throws 
against spells cast by priests of Cyric or Bane. In addi 
tion, they gain a + 1 to attack and damage rolls against 
these priests. 

• Specialty priests of Xvim are unaffected by fear spells, 
though they may be affected by other emotion-affect 
ing spells and by spell-like abilities that engender 
fear. 

• At 5th level, specialty priests of Xvim can generate an 
aura of fear in a 10-foot radius. This aura is similar to 
the fear 4th-level mage spell. Those who succeed in 
their saving throw against this effect still get an 
uneasy feeling, but this feeling does not affect their 
actions. The aura can be called up once per day, and 
lasts 1 round per level of the priest. Fellow priests of 
Xvim, as well as diehard priests of Bane, are immune 
to its effects. 

• Ninth-level priests of Xvim can cast a protection from 
good, 10' radius, once per day, lasting 1 round per 
level of the priest. 

Xvim is said to be the result of a union between the 
Black Lord, Bane, and a greater or a true tanar'ri, and 
thus the blood of Bane runs through his veins. (Another 
tale says he is the spawn of the Black Lord and a corrupt 
ed paladin.) During the Time of Troubles, Xvim found 
himself mysteriously confined to the subterranean 
depths of Faerun -specifically, under Zhentil Keep. It 
took the quasi-power from the end of the Time of Trou 
bles until the destruction of Zhentil Keep to escape his 
earthen prison and establish a base in Gehenna, and 
Xvim now considers himself a full-fledged power of the 
planes. 

With the setbacks that Cyric has suffered, Xvim has 
taken it upon himself to snatch away from Cyric some of 
the former portfolios of his father, Bane. Xvim since his 


incarceration seems smarter, cagier, and cannier than 
before, and has taken a more subtle approach to power 
than earlier legends give him credit for. The evil god has 
made himself known to cultists who were once faithful 
to Bane. Rapidly building up a following, he sent his fol 
lowers beyond Zhentil Keep in search of victims whose 
life force he could drain and absorb into himself in order 
to push him beyond quasi-power status and into full 
divinity. 

Now that Xvim is once again walking on Faerun and 
is boosted up in deific status, his next plan is to fully 
subsume his father's portfolio and status among the 
deities of Faerun. DMs should note that in the adven 
ture "Buying Time," Xvim has the chance to become an 
intermediate power if his plan is not stopped. If it is 
stopped, his climb in stature ends at lesser power, and 
he is considered to be such for future FORGOTTEN 
Realms(r) campaign game material (that is, we're assum 
ing the player characters stop Xvim). In either case, the 
godling has left the ranks of the also-rans and is now 
ready to take his place among the other ranking powers 
of Faerun. 

The Power: Xvim is 12 feet tall, with brown-black, 
scaly skin and glowing green eyes. He has powerful claws 
that he can attack with, but he favors using the Scimitar 
of Souls, a lawful evil scimitar +3 that drains two life- 
energy levels from living opponents. 

Xvim is a vain being, and most often appears as a 
dark, handsome man of average height in his late thir 
ties. In this form, his eyes are a brilliant emerald color, 
far greener than any eyes of a natural color. 

Xvim wants to eliminate Cyric completely, but for 
now is satisfied with seeing him reduced in power. Xvim 
sees the entire Cyrinishad incident as an opportunity to 
show the former worshipers of Bane that the upstart 
mortal Cyric is incompetent, and that only Bane or one 
of his blood is truly worthy of obedience. 

Currently, Xvim is busy building up his clergy. He is 
centering his rebuilding efforts in what's left of Zhentil 
Keep. Just as the Keep is in the middle of its rebirth, 
Xvim sees his church as having a fresh start as well. 
Xvim considers the Keep's comeback and his own ascen 
dancy to be linked. 

Xvim has a hatred for all the deities of Faerun, re 
gardless of alignment. He is unsure of who it was that put 
him in the earth. (One report claims it was Ao.) Xvim 
blames the entire Faerunian pantheon for his misfor 
tunes, and he plots his revenge accordingly. 

The Ethos: Xvim delights in death and destruction, 
and encourages his devoted to emulate him. In Xvim's 


115 












dark, twisted mind, nothing worthy is accomplished 
without the destruction of something else. 

Those who would follow Xvim must be as committed 
to destruction, oppression, and cruelty as he is. Xvim 
favors a crushing pecking order that rewards those who 
shove others aside for personal gain. Those at the top of 
the food chain prey on those at the bottom. Those at 
the bottom either survive (and become stronger) or per 
ish-in which case, they were weak and didn't belong 
in Xvim's camp anyway. 

The Clergy: Xvim's priests currently have several 
missions: They must round up victims to drain their 
spirits in order to feed Xvim's insatiable appetite; they 
must seek out the demoralized and hidden clergy of 
Bane and offer them the chance to join Xvim; and they 
must destroy the followers of Cyric, along with any 
priests of Bane who decide not to follow Xvim. The 
clergy sees Xvim as Bane's heir. 

The clergy is not supposed to loudly proclaim Xvim's 
name from the rooftops and aggressively proselytize on 
the street comers -at least, not yet. Despite his bull 
headed desire for death and tyranny, Xvim is well aware 
that he is not yet established enough to tackle the gods 
on their own terms. He is instead building up his wor 
shipers' ranks slowly by hushed word of mouth. 

Thus, whenever the clergy of Xvim carry out a mis 
sion of some sort and are acting quite openly in favor 
of their god, there is a strict "no survivors" rule in 
force. No one must know that Xvim is on the loose and 
is building his power. All potential witnesses must die. 
In some cases, entire buildings have been put to the 
torch just in case someone was watching from the win 
dow or eavesdropping. Since much of Zhentil Keep 
erupts in occasional fires, this does not appear out of 
the ordinary. 

The adventuring cleric of Xvim dresses like any 
armored cleric, favoring black armor and green acces 
sories. Specialty priests wear black robes or cloaks with 
startling emerald accessories (gloves, a belt, a pouch, 
etc.) or piping when "dressing down" for covert work. 
Battle armor of specialty priests tends to incorporate 
grotesque black great helms done in the form of fierce 
animals and monsters, often with the eyes done as green 
crystals or gems. For ceremonial garb, a specialty priest 
of Xvim wears a long, black cassock, a blackened metal 
skullcap, a black amice (overmantle) with thin, bright 
green piping or braidwork, a green ecclesiastical stole 
with the symbol of Xvim embroidered into it, and green 
maniples attached to the cassock's sleeves that swing 
from beneath the amice when she or he makes dramatic 


gestures. Facial tattooing is not common, but not 
frowned upon (making orthodox Banite converts more 
comfortable). 

The new symbol of Iyachtu Xvim is bright green 
glowing eyes against a black, open-palmed hand, similar 
to the hand of Bane. Xvim's clergy tend to style this 
symbol as that of "Xvim empowered," to distinguish it 
from Xvim's old symbol of glowing green eyes on a black 
field. 

In keeping with his father's clergy's habit of giving 
themselves grandiose titles, Xvim has commanded his 
priests to do likewise. Priests of 9th level and higher are 
called ruinlords, while those under 9th level are 
hatemasters. 


slemvoK 



"Death is the ultimate equalizer, for it 
strikes low the peasant and the lord, the 
rich and the poor, the good and the evil. 
They say that justice is blind. Not so. 
Death is." 

- Elminster of Shadowdale 


Greater Power 

Portfolio: 

Requirements: 

Weapons Allowed: 

Armor Allowed: 
Major Spheres: 


Minor Spheres: 


of the Gray Wastes, LN 

Death 
Wisdom 14 
Constitution 12 
All bludgeoning and piercing 
weapons, but no swords or 
other slashing weapons 
Chain mail; no shields 
All, Astral, Charm, Combat, 
Healing, Necromantic, Sum 
moning 

Creation, Divination, Ele 
mental, Guardian 


Magical Items Allowed: Same as clerics 


Gtzak>X eb Pouoens 

• Specialty priests of Kelemvor can turn and command 
undead as do clerics. They can affect triple the num 
ber of zombies and skeletons when commanding or 
destroying undead. 

• Specialty priests of Kelemvor gain a +1 on their sav 
ing throws vs. death magic. 

• Specialty priests of Kelemvor can feign death once per 
day, as the spell. 






116 















• At 5th level, a specialty priest of Kelemvor gains a 
second chance at turning undead if the previous 
attempt failed. This second attempt is as a priest two 
levels lower than the first attempt was. 

• At 10th level, specialty priests of Kelemvor can sum 
mon a minor death to fight for them. A minor death 
appears as a skeleton wearing a robe and wielding a 
scythe. A minor death can be summoned once per 
tenday (Faerunian week). The summoned minor 
death will fight obediently for 10 rounds (1 turn) or 
until the fight is over, whichever comes first. If the 
minor death disappears before killing its opponent, 
another minor death cannot be summoned until the 
priest kills a living creature. Characters slain by a mi 
nor death can be raised again. 

Minor Death (1): THACO 1; #AT 1; Dmg 
2d8 (scythe); AC -4; HD 8; hp 33; MV 18; SA 
THACO of 1 and automatic initiative roll of 1; 

SD Cannot be disarmed; immune to cold, fire, 
and electricity damage, sleep spells, and all 
enchantment/charm spells; SZ M (6 feet); INT 
Avg (10); AL N; ML 20; XP 5,000. 

• At 16th level, a specialty priest of Kelemvor who 
casts resurrection or raise dead boosts the recipient's 
resurrection survival check by 10%. (It cannot, how 
ever, exceed 99%.) Furthermore, the caster only ages 
one year, not three, when casting the resurrection 
spell. 


Kelemvor, a former associate of Midnight, Cyric, and 
Adon back when the former two were still mortals, 
inherited the portfolio of the god of the dead when 
Cyric lost those responsibilities following the Cyrinishad 
debacle. The first official act of the newly created god of 
the dead was to turn Cyric's Bone Castle into a gleaming 
tower of crystal, a symbol that this particular god of the 
dead would hide nothing from his subjects. He intends 
to impart justice among the dead in an even-handed and 
fair manner. 

The Power: Kelemvor, Lord of the Dead, Judge of 
the Damned, Master of the Crystal Spire, is Faerun's 
newest god, a god solely of death. He dwells in the Crys 
tal Spire, a beacon of justice amidst the twisted squalor 
of the Gray Waste. 

Since Kelemvor was until recently a mortal human 
warrior, he appears much as he did in life, as a square- 
jawed warrior with piercing green eyes in a dark, 
tanned face. He has a wild mane of black hair with a 


few streaks of gray in it, and is clad in chain mail and 
dark leather. 

As the new Lord of the Dead, Kelemvor hopes to 
bring justice to the Land of the Dead, a realm free of the 
evil stigma that Cyric wrought upon it. 

Kelemvor has an unexpected ally, at least in terms of 
traditional godly alliances. He and Mystra, formerly the 
human Midnight, remain close, and as they are both 
deities new to their respective duties, they often confer 
on matters in their own spheres. 

The Ethos: Kelemvor is interested in having fol 
lowers who recognize that death is but a part of life, it is 
not an end but a beginning, not a punishment but a 
necessity. There is no deceit in death, nothing con 
cealed, nothing chaotic. Death is an orderly process. 

The followers of Kelemvor are not out to spread death 
and destruction in the Realms. Rather, they seek to help 
others to die with dignity at their appointed time and no 
sooner. Just as they do not seek to rush death, they also 
speak out against those who seek to artificially prolong 
their lives beyond their natural limits, including such 
magical creations as liches. 

The Clergy: Priests of Kelemvor administer last rites 
to the dying and help the living left behind to better 
understand the natural and inevitable process of death 
and dying. They preach that there are times when death 
is required to correct a situation, such as when a creature 
of a blasphemous nature that is running loose must be 
destroyed to protect others, or when an overabundance 
of dragons forces a dragon to kill to carve out a new ter 
ritory for itself. 

Undead, according to Kelemvor's teachings, are to be 
put to rest as soon as is possible. Though members of the 
clergy can command the undead, these commands usual 
ly can be boiled down to "Go back to your graves and 
sleep there forever." The undead walking the Realms are 
as much an affront to Kelemvor as they are to the god 
desses and gods of nature. 

Adventuring clerics of Kelemvor dress functionally, 
wearing armor and cloaks. They are required to display 
the symbol of their deity prominently. Often it is worn 
on the left breast over the heart or is woven into the 
cloak. Specialty priests of Kelemvor dress in somber and 
starkly elegant robes of dark and muted blue, gray, or 
green. (They may wear armor beneath their robes when 
the situation merits it.) They always wear the symbol of 
Kelemvor prominently in a badge on their chests, and 
wear simple silver headbands on their brows. 

Kelemvor's symbol is an upright skeletal arm holding 
the scales of justice balancing evenly in its fist. The arm 


117 










is white or bone-colored, and the scales are depicted as 
iron-colored, silver, or gold, depending on the ecclesias 
tical rank of the wearer. 


Mask 


(PaTrosj of Thieves, 
SbAdocuLoKxb) 



"Mask took what he could 
As was his right. 

Now he runs from the Hound 
Like a thief in the night." 

- Dalelands 
jump-rope rhyme 


Demipower of the Gray Wastes, NE 


Thieves 
Wisdom 13 
Strength 13 
As clerics, plus knife 
Leather, padded leather, or 
studded leather; no shield 
All, Astral, Charm, Combat, 
Divination, Guardian, Heal 
ing, Protection, Sun 
Elemental, Necromantic, 
Summoning, Weather 

Magical Items Allowed: Same as clerics, plus devices 
that can only be used by 
thieves 


Portfolio: 

Requirements: 

Weapons Allowed: 
Armor Allowed: 

Major Spheres: 


Minor Spheres: 


GriAJoTed Pouuens 

• Specialty priests of Mask have some thieving skills. 
They have the thieving skill base scores as set out in 
the Player's Handbook (including Dexterity, race, and 
armor adjustments), but gain no initial discretionary 
points. Each time a specialty priest gains a level, 20 
points may be applied to thieving skills. No more 
than 15 points may be assigned to a single skill. 
Priests of Mask do not gain a backstabbing ability or 
the ability to use magical scrolls. 

• Priests of Mask may understand and use thieves' 
cant. 

• Specialty priests of Mask cannot turn or command 
undead. 


Mask has remained a mystery since the destruction of 
Zhentil Keep. One school of thought believed the god 
totally destroyed, another that the god is now totally 


subsumed by Cyric, and a third school that the god, 
engaged in its own intrigues, faked its own loyalty to 
Cyric and later its own death. 

The truth, as pieced together from divinations and 
godly asides, seems as follows: Mask survived the en 
slaving effects of the Cyrinishad, and the destruction of a 
major avatar form, the sword Godsbane, but at great cost, 
losing much of its godly power in the process. To make 
matters worse. Mask crossed a powerful extraplanar enti 
ty known as Kezef the Chaos Hound, who has sworn 
eternal revenge. Mask is on the run in the Gray Wastes, 
never remaining in one place too long, always hearing 
the hellish baying behind it. Such is the price of 
intrigue, a price that Mask has paid dearly. 

The Power: Mask's form is ever-changing in regard 
to appearance - short and tall; strong and weak; female 
and male; human, halfling, and dwarf. A body of myth 
has arisen among planar travelers that they have 
encountered Mask in one of its myriad forms, only to 
lose that company at the sound of Kezef's approach. 

Mask remains the patron of thieves, and there its 
faith is strongest. However, it is a weakened power as a 
result of its own efforts, and walks (or runs, when the 
Chaos Hound is abroad) carefully in its dealings with 
the other gods. Mask wants to remain out of the sight 
(and hopefully out of the mind) of Cyric, who might still 
covet Mask's remaining power. 

The Ethos: Mask's ethos remains unchanged - own 
ership is nine-tenths of what is right, and if you happen 
to currently have something, it is yours. Previous owner 
ship does not count. Therefore, the day belongs to the 
quick, the smooth-tongued, and the light-fingered. 

The Clergy: The followers of Mask have been re 
duced to their central core: thieves and thieves' guilds. 
Many guilds still have their shrines to the god, and in 
those regions where thievery is not actively frowned 
upon, temples to Mask survive. Specialty priests of Mask 
are called demarchesses if female, and demarchs if male. 
The symbol of Mask is a black velvet mask, tinged with 
red. 

Normal dress for clerics of Mask is similar to that of 
any merchant, craftsperson, or adventurer in the area. 
Ceremonial dress consists of tunics and trousers in a 
bright motley, with ballooned sleeves and cuffs. The 
entire outfit is covered with a full-length, hooded gray 
cloak that can be drawn shut to hide the bright color 
beneath. A black cloth mask is worn beneath the hood. 
In some areas where Mask has fallen on particularly hard 
times, the gray cloak and mask only are worn as a symbol 
of the god's favor. 


ns 










OTbefc Gobs 

"He's dead? Right, like being dead would slow him down." 

- Olive Ruskettle 

As a result of the Time of Troubles, many deities per 
ished or lost their portfolios to others (primarily to 
Cyric). At the time of the destruction of Zhentil Keep, 
the status of these powers are as follows: 

Bhaal: After suffering reverses in the Moonsea area, 
Bhaal was destroyed in the Time of Troubles. In the 
main, his faith has been taken over by Cyric, and 
Bhaal's temples have been converted to the worship of 
the Prince of Lies. There are still some committed 
Bhaal worshipers, but they are found primarily in rural 
areas, and many of these former worshipers are now 
venerating the orcish and other nonhuman pantheons 
as well. 

Bane: Bane was destroyed in conflict with Torm in 
the Time of Troubles, and his portfolio was handed over 
to Cyric. Along with the Bhaal worshipers, the Banite 
factions formed the strong base of Cyric's present 
church. There remains an ultra-orthodox sect of con 
firmed Banites who venerate that god, but most wor 
shipers have moved on to other deities. With the resur 
gence of Iyachtu Xvim, some Cyric worshipers are ven 
erating him. One of the leading Banite priests who con 
verted to Cyricism, Fzoul Chembryl, has apparently 
deserted Cyric to encourage (and perhaps lead) Iyachtu 
Xvim's rising faith. 

Myrkul: Myrkul was destroyed during the Time of 
Troubles. The death god's portfolio passed first to Cyric, 
and now belongs to the new god Kelemvor. Most of the 
Myrkul-worshiping priests had shifted their allegiance 
first to Cyric, and have now just as easily shifted it to 
Kelemvor. This easy shift in allegiance has been aided 
by the fact that all three gods had the same base of oper 
ations and the same support hierarchy. (All three 
employed Jergal, the Scribe of the Doomed, as their 
seneschal and assistant, and while the nature of the 
death palace has shifted from golden to a castle of bones 
to a crystalline tower, it has remained at the same loca 
tion.) Kelemvor is more even-handed than Cyric, but 
less tolerant of the undead than Myrkul was. There are 
no known remaining worshipers of Myrkul. 

Leira: Despite a fog of counterclaims and declara 
tions, it is most likely that Leira perished in the Time of 
Troubles or shortly thereafter, and the goddess's portfo 
lio was subsumed by Cyric. Churches of Leira still oper 
ate, and their priests receive spells, but it is assumed 


that these are granted either by Cyric or other agents 
who see a profit in creating questions as to Leira's exis 
tence. Many devout Leiracists seem unconcerned that 
the goddess may be dead, since that death may be an 
illusion, the original Leira may be an illusion, or Cyric 
himself may be an illusion. Many rational sages just 
assume Leira, Lady of the Mists, is no more, and go on 
from there. 

Waukeen: The fate of Waukeen the Merchants' 
Friend remains a mystery. She disappeared during the 
Time of Troubles, and even Cyric and Mask did not 
claim this goddess's profitable portfolio. Her priests were 
deprived of their spells, and many of her worshipers and 
churches have turned to other faiths. Lathander, Tymo- 
ra, and (especially) Lliira have all benefited from an 
influx of former Waukeeners. Waukeen's final fate is 
unrevealed. 

The Quick 
AM<b The De<\b 

Note that it takes a great deal to destroy a god entirely, 
and stories continue to surface of this group of Banites 
or that group of Bhaal worshipers who have been "visit 
ed" by their god or who have proof of their power's sur 
vival. It is possible that avatars, incarnations, relics of 
power, or the mortal spirits of the destroyed gods still 
exist in some form somewhere in the Realms. Rumors 
swirl through Waterdeep that Myrkul is abroad, and 
some point to Iyachtu Xvim's growing influence as an 
indication that perhaps more than just Bane's blood 
flows through his veins. Such speculations remain just 
that - speculation. When dealing with a death god, one 
goes to Kelemvor, and when venerating hatred and 
tyranny, Xvim takes precedence over his father. 

In addition, the appearance of Xvim keynotes the 
rising fortunes of many local deities (who would com 
monly be known as quasi-powers) who are gaining in 
power as time goes on due to weak or unrepresented 
areas at the top of the hierarchy of deific powers. In the 
years to come, many of the other "small" gods may find 
themselves elevated to more central roles in the Realms 
and allowed entrance into the inner circles of the 
mighty and the sage. 




119 













Apvestdix H- 

Necu Spells 

Most of the new spells introduced here are used by the evil Banite, Xvimist, and Cyricist 
priests in the adventures found in the Adventure Book. One spell, conjure nature elemen 
tal, is a spell reputed to come originally from lost Netheril. Battletide is a personal spell 
Fzoul Chembryl requested of his deity, which has aided him in several battles and intra 
temple coup attempts. Howling horror is a spell researched by the wizard Sememmon 
that is exclusive to his spellbook. Stasis clone is a spell that the wizard Manshoon devel 
oped and has never shared with anyone, but that explains Manshoon's incredible abili 
ty to survive after being killed so many times. 

Priest Spells 

Sib Level 

BdTTLeTi&e 

(Alteration) 

Sphere: Combat 
Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 6 rounds 
Casting Time: 5 
Area of Effect: 20-foot radius 
Saving Throw: Special 


This spell slows all beings within a 20-foot spherical radius centered on the caster, 
except the priest casting it. Affected beings move and attack at half-speed. (The magic 
affects beings so located at the time of casting, not creatures who later come within 
range of the caster during the duration of the spell.) Beings affected by the spell remain 
slowed even if they move beyond the original area of effect of the spell. The magic 
transfers the energy it steals from its victims to the caster, who is hasted for the spell 
duration, without any of the aging effects of a haste spell. The caster moves at double 
rate, and makes physical attacks twice as fast (that is, a being who attacks once per 
round would attack twice -first in the round and then last). This does not allow spell 
casting to be hastened. 

All beings within range of the caster are allowed to make saving throws vs. spell once 
a round to avoid, or instantly break free of, the battletide. The spell ends entirely when 
the last victim escapes its effects (or at the end of its duration). On the first round, the 
saving throw is made at a -6 penalty; on the second, at a -5 penalty; on the third, at a -4 
penalty, and so on. 

The material component of this spell a piece cobweb, human hair, or silk thread as 
long as the caster's hand. 


DarJc Pnomise 

(Enchantment/Charm) 

Sphere: Charm, Necromantic 
Range: Touch 


120 















Components: V, S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: 1 creature 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

The dark promise spell was used exclusively by priests of 
Bane centuries ago to make sure their hidden cults, tem 
ples, and covert members were protected from the bias of 
the general populace. As Bane's power grew to a point 
where Banites were no longer hunted, the spell was no 
longer needed, and its use dwindled away. 

When the spell is cast, a set of circumstances are set 
in motion that targets of the spell must follow to the let 
ter (a promise, of sorts, with stipulations). The dark 
promise must have Bane's interests at heart and cannot 
be suicidal in nature. Dark promises such as "Never eat," 
"Never breathe," and "Never wear armor" will not work. 
Legitimate dark promises include: "Do not return to 
(name of place)" or "Never again attack a priest of 
Bane." 

If the promise is violated, affected spell targets lose 1 
hit point per violation of the dark promise until they are 
dead. Curing and other means of recovering hit points 
do not restore damage done by a dark promise spell, and 
these hit points are permanently gone (short of a wish 
spell). The dark promise can be lifted by the original cast 
er of the spell, a wish spell, or a remove curse cast by a 
good priest of higher level than the caster of the dark 
promise. If an (unwilling) target of a dark promise spell 
makes a successful saving throw vs. spell when the spell 
is cast, it has no effect. 

Only one dark promise may be in effect on a being at 
one time. Any successive dark promise spells cast auto 
matically fail. The main components of a dark promise 
spell are the name of the person the spell is to be cast 
upon and a carefully worded promise statement. 

(5th Level 

S p)izTC AwwJhJLa'DoM 

(Necromancy) 

Sphere: Necromantic 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 3 rounds 
Area of Effect: 1 victim 
Saving Throw: Neg. 


Spirit annihilation was used by the clerics of Bane cen 
turies ago to negate the operation of spells used to 
retrieve information from the Banites' victims, such as 
speak with dead. Clerics of the new God of Strife, Cyric, 
seem have no access to this spell, however. The only 
place to currently find this spell is on ancient scrolls hid 
den deep within old Banites' haunts. There are rumors 
that Iyachtu Xvim may be granting this spell to a small 
cult of his followers for some nefarious purpose 

By use of this spell the caster completely annihilates 
the victim's spirit, utterly wiping him, her, or it from 
existence. The victim's spirit cannot find rest in the 
Outer Planes, and indeed it never even reaches them. 
The spirit is caught up by the force of the spell and utter 
ly shattered, or its energy is diverted to some foul use 
(such as to power a particularly monstrous spell of gigan 
tic complexity). 

This spell is usable only on victims who are about to 
die (0 hp) or who have died (below 0 hp, or below -10 
hp if that optional rule is in use) within 1 round per level 
of the caster. The victim receives a saving throw vs. 
spell, which negates the effect if the saving throw is suc 
cessful. Victims who fail their saving throws not only 
cannot be spoken with using speak with dead spells, but 
also cannot be resurrected, raised, or reincarnated, 
though the body of the victim may be animated as a 
mindless undead creature. 

UhjdeaTh AfTeR Death 

(Alteration, Necromancy) 

Sphere: Necromantic 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 1 turn 
Area of Effect: 1 Banite 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell is cast on worshipers of Bane upon the 
moments of their deaths, transforming them into differ 
ent forms of undead. Which form of undead a Banite 
becomes depends on his or her level of experience in 
life. The more powerful the Banite was in life, the 
stronger the type of undead. If the spell is cast upon the 
Banite after his or her death, it must be cast within 1 
round per level of the caster after death occurs; other 
wise, the spirit of the Banite is too far from the body to 
return and take control. If the caster waits too long, the 
spell works as an animate dead spell, creating a mundane, 
mindless zombie. Vampires created by this spell retain 












character abilities. (If the DM chooses to use the option 
al rules presented for mummies in Van Richten's Guide to 
the Ancient Dead, mummies created by this spell retain 
character abilities, also.) 


Level 

Type of Undead 

lst-3rd 

Ghoul 

4th-6th 

Ghast 

7th-9th 

Ju-ju zombie 

10th-13th 

Wight 

14th-17th 

Mummy 

18th+ 

Vampire 


The level of the caster must be higher than the level 
of the spell's recipient, or else the caster must make a 
saving throw vs. death magic or perish in the casting. In 
such a case, however, the spell still functions as normal 
on the recipient. The material component for this spell 
is a black obsidian heart into which is carved the recipi 
ent's name and the symbol of Bane. This heart is shat 
tered during the ceremony. 

This spell is a closely guarded secret within the upper 
ranks of the church of Bane, and its use disappeared 
with the death of Bane. New priests of Cyric do not 
seem to know of the spell's existence, and those priests 
who converted from Bane worship have been unable to 
have the spell granted to them by Cyric when they pray 
for it. 

7Tb Level 

Cohjjuize NdTurze ELecnebjTaL 

(Conjuration/Summoning) Reversible 

Sphere: Elemental, Plant, Summoning 

Range: 100 yards 

Components: V, S, M 

Duration: Special or 24 hours 

Casting Time: 1 turn 

Area of Effect: 1 mile 

Saving Throw: None 

Upon the casting of this 7th-level priest spell, the caster 
opens a direct link with his or her deity, and a portion of 
the deity's essence forms a nature elemental from the 
uncivilized and uncultivated portions of the priest's cur 
rent surroundings. The deity linked with this spell must 
have both elemental and plant in his or her major 
spheres of influence or the spell will not work. 

Unless the caster is 17th level or higher, she or he 
must make a saving throw vs. breath weapon. If the sav 


ing throw fails, the caster provides the spirit portion of 
the elemental's essence (it is composed of earth, air, 
fire, water, and spirit) and departs the Prime Material 
Plane when the elemental disperses at the end of the 
spell's duration. The caster is then dead, but the body 
remains intact (it is, oddly, not restructured like the 
environment) and may be raised or resurrected. Priests 
must be above 17th level to inscribe the spell onto a 
scroll, and then only someone who is in touch with 
nature (druids, clerics or priests of nature powers, or 
rangers above 5th level) can read the scroll. When 
reading from a scroll, a caster does not need to make a 
saving throw. 

Nature elementals are summoned to return the spell's 
area of effect to an uncultivated state. All signs of civi 
lization and all humans or humanoids within the area of 
effect are obliterated. The only people immune to the 
elemental's fury are the caster and up to 10 people per 
the caster's level within a 100-yard-radius, designated 
upon casting the spell. The elemental disperses into its 
environmental components when a 1-mile radius is ren 
ovated or after 24 hours, whichever occurs first. 

Unlike other elementals, nature elementals cannot 
be controlled. Their duties and the area in which they 
are to perform them are set at their summoning. If the 
area a nature elemental is summoned into is free of 
signs of civilization, the creature disperses. Nature ele 
mentals are not affected by protection from evil spells 
and like magics intended to hold at bay extraplanar 
creatures. 

The material components for this spell are burning 
incense, soft clay, sulfur, phosphorus, water, and sand, and 
a duly consecrated holy symbol of the deity to be invoked. 
The holy symbol is the only component to survive the 
spell's casting. The reverse of this spell, dismiss nature ele 
mental, disperses a summoned nature elemental. 

CReaXe Us>d>&dd> 

(Alteration, Necromancy) 

Sphere: Necromantic 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 1 turn 
Area of Effect: 1 victim 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

The caster of this spell creates a form of undead. The 
type of undead created depends upon the level of the 
caster and the condition of the victim. The spell may be 


122 










cast on a living or a dead subject. Dead subjects must 
have died within 24 hours, and their bodies must be in 
good shape. From a dead subject, the only type of 
undead that can be created is a ghoul. 

Subjects who are still alive result in more powerful 
undead minions. If such subjects fail their saving throws 
vs. spell, they transform into the type of undead indicat 
ed below, depending on the casting priest's level. Casters 
can create any type of undead given on the table, up to 
their level limit. Thus, a 18th-level priest can create a 
ghoul or a ghast as easily as a vampire. Undead creatures 
of any sort created by this spell never retain character 
abilities. 


Cleric Level 

Type of Undead 

14th 

Ghoul 

15th 

Ghast 

16th 

Ju-ju zombie 

17th 

Wight 

18th 

Wraith 

19th 

Spectre 

20th+ 

Vampire 


The transformation into an undead creature takes the 
full turn of the casting time to be complete. If the spell is 
interrupted (or dispelled) before the turn is complete, 
the subject is rendered unconscious for a turn, and 
returns to normal at the end of that turn. The undead 
creature created is under the complete control of the 
caster. If the controlling priest is later killed, the undead 
minion must make a successful saving throw vs. death 
magic or perish as well. Surviving undead become free- 
willed. 

The components of this spell are the holy symbol of 
the caster, dirt from a graveyard, and the fingernail of 
one of the forms of corporeal undead listed on the table 
above. 

WizAtzd Spells 

7th Level 

HomUibjg Horror. 

(Evocation, Necromancy) 

Range: 0 

Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Casting Time: 7 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 


This spell causes a wraithlike flying form to be emitted 
from the caster. Moaning eerily, it flies at a target being 
within line-of-sight that has been mentally selected by 
the caster. 

This howling horror is a magical force, not an undead 
creature, and cannot be turned. It lasts for 1 round per 
level of the caster, or until the target creature perishes. 
The horror is destroyed by suffering more than 22 
points of damage or if the caster wills it to vanish. The 
howling horror is not fooled by feign death spells or simi 
lar conditions. The caster need not concentrate on the 
horror to maintain its existence. Once a target is select 
ed, a howling horror cannot be redirected against any 
other being. 

A howling horror is a faceless, translucent gray, wispy 
being that swirls and drifts in response to weapon blows 
and moving objects. Only physical attacks that pass 
through the volume of air it occupies harm it. It moves 
at MV FI 14 (A), is AC 5, and attacks twice per round, 
draining its target of 2d4 hit points per strike. Its attacks 
automatically hit its target. 

For every hit point of damage the howling horror 
inflicts, a hit point is gained by its caster. If the caster has 
been hurt, these points heal him or her. When the cast 
er is at full hit points, these points become extra, phan 
tom hit points that remain with the caster for 1 turn. 
Any damage suffered by the caster is taken from them 
first. 

Area-of-effect spells have no effect on a howling hor 
ror, which in turn does not alter them in any way. Spells 
directed specifically against a horror do it no harm, but 
the spell effects are transmitted to its caster. The caster 
in turn suffers no harm from them, and can emit them at 
any chosen target (not necessarily the horror's target). 
This retransmission is not considered spellcasting and 
occurs in addition to the caster's activities. It does not 
disrupt the caster's spellcasting. 

Spells cast at the creator of a howling horror while 
the horror is active are taken into the caster's body and 
transmitted through the magical link to the horror, to 
be emitted by the horror at targets selected by the hor 
ror -caster. The primary target of the horror need not be 
among them. Area-of-effect spells are also altered and 
usurped by the caster in this manner if the caster is 
included in the area of effect at all. Again, this occurs 
in addition to any spellcasting on the part of the horror- 
caster, and it does no harm to either the horror or its 
creator. 

If the caster is unconscious, spells are emitted from 
the horror- caster or the horror in random directions. 




123 











Retransmitted area-of-effect magics are emitted with 
spell foci at random distances and directions from the 
emitting horror. 

A howling horror cannot form underwater. The mater 
ial component of this spell is a small cone made of bone 
that is consumed in the casting. 

Pth Level 

STas)s Clowe 

(Alteration, Necromancy) 

Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Permanent 
Casting Time: 2 turns 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 


This spell creates a duplicate of a human, demihuman, 
or humanoid creature from any scrap of bone, hair, tis 
sue, or at least six drops of blood from that being. If the 
caster is not the being to be duplicated, that living crea 
ture must touch the duplicate body, as it forms, to give it 
life. 

This clone is identical to the original being in mem 
ories, skills, experience level, and appearance at the 
time the organic tissue was obtained from the being. It 
has one less point of Constitution than the original 
being, and it cannot form at all if the original being has 
a current Constitution of 1. All other ability scores are 
identical. 

Unlike duplicates created by the 8th-level wizard 
spell clone, the copy of the being is never aware of the 
existence of the original. It remains in magical stasis and 
is mentally unreachable (with a sole exception noted 
hereafter). It does not age, decay, or need air, water, 
food, or other essentials that other living things require. 
A stasis clone can be stored in a coffin or other confined 
space, and it is not awakened by handling. It can be 
damaged or even destroyed by weapons, fire, crushing 
blows, and other forces that would harm its living coun 
terpart. 

A stasis clone holds the pose it was last placed in by 
living hands, and thus can be dressed and clothed so as 
to be used as a decoy or to fool others into thinking they 
are seeing the original being in a state of rest or sitting 
absorbed in study. 

Whenever the original being touches the stasis clone, 
the clone's memories, skills and experience levels are 
updated to match the original being's. Purely physical 


differences, such as aging, a wound, or an amputation 
the original being has gone through, are not mirrored by 
the clone in this process. 

The stasis is normally lifted only when the original 
being dies, though up to two contingency spells may be 
applied to any stasis clone to modify when and how it 
activates. (Note that a stasis clone confined in an airtight 
or flooded space may perish shortly after awakening.) 
Multiple stasis clones can be created by repeated castings 
of this spell. These stasis clones can even be linked to 
each other by custom-devised transferal spells mated to 
contingency spells so that the death of the first clone 
awakens only the second, its death in turn activates just 
the third, and so on. 

Manshoon has used this spell both to escape a final 
death and to remain young. As he ages, he can update 
his stasis clone, get himself slain (usually in a reckless 
attack that destroys an enemy, such as a powerful Red 
Wizard), and return as a physically younger clone. Sever 
al wizards have offered him fantastic sums for a copy of 
this spell and reportedly have been refused. Others 
(including apprentices) have perished quite messily at 
Manshoon's hands when they attempted to steal the 
spell. 

Manshoon's stasis clones are obvious targets for those 
who wish him dead, permanently. Several times his 
enemies or his rivals in the Inner Circle of the Zhen- 
tarim have gone to a great deal of trouble to kill him 
and destroy all of his stasis clones, only to find that 
Manshoon had squirreled away one or two they had 
missed. One reason that Manshoon has not advanced 
to a higher level as a wizard is undoubtedly the cumula 
tive loss of a great deal of experience because of the lag 
between newly activated clones that had not been 
recently updated and previous, now-dead Manshoon 
incarnations. 



Manshoon's Symbol 


124 











A pv&sidiy IIL* 

Magical, ffeoDS 

n the listings that follow, "XP Value" is an experience point award gained by a 
being who researches and crafts such an item. This award applies only the first 
time such an item is crafted. It should be reduced proportionally if other beings 
assist in, teach, or guide the construction. It is not experience gained by one who 
merely comes to possess an item. "GP Value" is an average market price for the 
item in Faerun. It is assumed to be paid by a wealthy mage, merchant, or sage interested in magic, 
who does not suspect the seller is in any haste or financial need. 

AlbRaito 

XP Value: 5,000 GP Value: 25,000 

bruin is a broad sword made of steel alloyed with electrum (itself a natural alloy) and sil- 
(•v'*- ver. This alloy is demonstrably as effective as silver against undead and other creatures 
who suffer particular effects from contact with silver. It lends a +1 bonus to its wielder's attack 
rolls and a +3 bonus to its damage rolls. It sheds an eerie blue radiance in up to a 10-foot-diame 
ter sphere when drawn from its scabbard. It is an intelligent weapon of chaotic neutral alignment 
with an Intelligence of 17 and an Ego of 13. It communicates by speech and knows common, 
elvish, drow, and thieves' cant. It can also read languages and magical writings. 

Albruin's bearer can, at will, activate and maintain by concentration the sword's power to 
detect invisible objects in a 10-foot radius. Albruin can also neutralize poison once every three days, 
and heal its bearer once every 12 days. These powers are evoked at the will of the bearer, or by the 
sword if the bearer is unconscious and Albruin deems it advantageous to itself to activate either 
power. Physical contact between Albruin and the flesh of the bearer is necessary for the powers to 
work, but the sword need not be drawn to neutralize poison or heal. 

Albruin is believed to be the creation of the long-dead smith Surdee, who was famous in his 
day for the craftsmanship of his work that came out of the forges of ice-bound Glister, where he 
worked ore fresh from the mines above the city on the edge of the glacier. The blade itself evades 
questions as to its origins. There are no markings or definite touches of workmanship that iden 
tify Albruin as the work of anyone in particular. 

Albruin was held for many decades by the royal house of Cormyr, kept as a family treasure but 
seldom (due to its alignment) borne by the kings of that land. It was stolen form the palace at 
Suzail some 100 winters ago by the thief Nypan ("Nipe"), a halfling who was soon arrested at 
Wheloon by soldiers of Cormyr and slain when he attempted escape. Nipe did not have the 
blade when seized, and did not reveal its whereabouts. It was rumored among the thieves of 
Wheloon that he had sold it to a gray trader (fence) by the name of Blusken Shult, who had a 
merchant barge on the Wyvernwater, and that Blusken had sailed from Wheloon up to some 
where on the northern shore of the Wyvernwater, and delivered the sword to a waiting buyer. 

The blade's whereabouts were uncertain for some 24 winters, until a lady of high birth in Sel- 
gaunt, one Shamur, found the blade left behind in her bedchamber by a visitor fleeing the city 
guard. He never returned, and Shamur sold it when she married. It was bought by an adventurer 
visiting the city of Selgaunt on matters of trade (gold for mercenaries) and wielded thereafter in 
several minor skirmishes about the Easting Reach before its owner died in an ambush. His slayer, 
the adventurer-prince Thaum of Telflamm, used Albruin to help take the lands of Impiltur 
forcibly from his father's rule and found his own kingdom. Thaum eventually died by magic 
(hired by his father Kuskur, who was unable to regain control of the lost lands militarily), and us 





125 













Albruin was acquired by one of Thaum's warriors, who fled the 
dead king's keep and took the blade back westward, into the 
Dalelands. 

This warrior, one Adjuz by name, perished at the hands 
of brigands on a northern road, and Albruin disappeared 
from view-but not before Adjuz had sought out a sage 
(Elminster) in Shadowdale to learn the blade's true nature 
and powers. After the death of Adjuz, the trail of the sword 
remained hidden for some eight winters. It is known to have 
been in the hands of the mercenary general Malakar on his 
visit to Zhentil Keep in the spring of the ninth year there 
after, and it was identified again by the sage Murail of Sar- 
breen when a mercenary warrior sought him out in Ravens 
Bluff to learn the blade's properties some six winters beyond 
that time. (Sarbreen is now more commonly known as 
Ravens Bluff.) 

We now know that Albruin came into the possession of 
the banelich Stallac Benadi in Zhentil Keep. When Stallac 
recruited Malakar to help him in his subterranean feud with 
Chrinson of the Blazing Sun, he offered the mercenary 
Albruin plus a fair amount of gold and gems. Malakar agreed 
and has held Albruin until now. (It was Malakar who trav 
eled to Ravens Bluff to have Murail identify the blade so 
that he could better use it.) 

Riffle GongeT 

XP Value: 3,000 GP Value: 6,500 

ne item that Manshoon of the Zhentarim always wears 
is a battle gorget. This throat protector consists of a 
metal throat-shield and overlapping, neck-encircling plates 
that are attached to a leather belt. It protects the wearer from 
all strangulation effects, death by hanging, and stabbing or 
piercing damage done to the throat. It bears an enchantment 
that improves the wearer's Armor Class by 1, and also offers 
the following powers (usable one at a time): 

• Once per day, for a four-round period, the wearer is pro 
tected as if by an ironguard spell (that is, metal of any 
sort, except enchanted items such as the gorget itself, 
passes through the wearer's body harmlessly, as if the 
wearer's form was insubstantial). This property is activat 
ed by the wearer's silent act of will, has foiled several 
assassination attempts, and has enabled Manshoon to 
fight his way safely clear of at least one battle. (See 
Forgotten Realms Adventures or Pages From the Mages 
for the ironguard spell.) 

• When the wearer wills, the gorget can emit a feather fall 
effect twice per day, for up to one turn at a time, of suffi 
cient force to slow up to 600 lbs. In practical terms, this is 
enough to allow a fully armored heavy wearer, carrying 


heavy cargo, such as a second person grasped by the wear 
er, to descend to safety. This property has allowed Man 
shoon to survive several falls from the backs of flying 
dragons over the years. 

• Once per day at the silent mental command of the wearer, 
the gorget can emit a repulsion. This power causes affected 
creatures to retreat for six rounds. The effect duplicates a 
repulsion spell cast by a 12th-level wizard except that it 
works in all directions from the gorget -wearer, in a sphere. 
Only beings directly touching the wearer are immune to 
the repulsion. 

• Once per day, the gorget can project a firebeam in front of 
the wearer. The wearer must speak a command word to 
enact this power. The throat-plate emits a cylindrical red 
shaft of fire a hand's width in diameter, directly out from 
the wearer's throat to 20 feet distant. The beam is instan 
taneous, and all beings it comes into contact with suffer 
4d4 points of fiery damage. If the targets make a success 
ful saving throw vs. spell, they take half this damage. 
Items the beam strikes (such as armor) are subject to 
forced saving throws vs. magical fire. It should be noted 
that the wearer's own hands or items may be imperiled by 
this beam. 

Bobje Mask 

XP Value: 6,000 GP Value: 12,000 

his skull-face mask is fashioned of bone from any source. 
The powdered bones of many animals can be used in a 
paste to augment or even form an entire mask. When a bone 
mask is worn, the wearer -who may be of any class -is 
immune to all undead draining, chilling, aging, and withering 
attacks, and all of the nonphysical attacks of a demilich (such 
as death ray, tray the soul, and curse). 

A bone mask also has three other powers that the wearer 
can call upon (one at a time) by silent act of will: 

• The wearer can turn all undead as if she or he were a 7th- 
level priest. Wearers who are priests normally able to turn 
undead have their effective level for turning attempts 
(only) doubled. 

• The wearer can animate dead by touch. This ability creates 
human or monster skeletons or zombies only, and can 
make one such entity per round. An undead animated by 
the bone mask rises on round following the use of this abil 
ity, and the mask-wearer can mentally control it on the 
third round. It will never attack any being who wears or 
has worn the bone mask that animated it. 

• The mask can emit a spectral messenger once per day. This 
insubstantial magical construct looks like a skeletal bat 
and flies unerringly at MV FI 21 (A) to any being visual- 




126 











ized by the mask-wearer who is alive and on the same 
plane. (If either of these conditions is unfulfilled, the spec 
tral messenger does not fly off, but simply circles the mask- 
wearer's head until dispelled by will of the mask -wearer.) 
When it reaches the chosen recipient being, the spectral 
messenger emits a verbal message from the mask -wearer. 
The message must be 33 or fewer words spoken by the 
mask- wearer, and the message cannot be a spell incanta 
tion. The message can include a word of activation, how 
ever, perhaps to activate a magical item the target being is 
carrying or is near. 

Fzoul Chembryl is known to treasure his bone mask, 
though his is by no means the only one in existence. 

The Cyrzisjishdd 


"Who's to say the book doesn't contain the power to twist the mind 
of a god!" 



T he artifact known as the Cyrinishad is a large (1-foot- 
square) tome of raven-black leather, embossed with a 
pattern of small grinning skulls and dark sunbursts against a 
twisting, warped background of torture and chaos. The book 
has golden hinges and clasps, and it is closed with a lock of 
unbreakable metal. The lock may be picked at a -15% penal 
ty, but cannot be shattered. The pages of this book are made 
of the flayed skins of the scribes of earlier, less-successful drafts 
of the tome. These interior pages are illuminated with 
strange, bestial designs imprinted on gold foil, and the text of 
the work is inscribed in bright red ink. Once begun, it is a 
hard book to put down. 

H}sTory 

The Cyrinishad reflects an attempt by the god Cyric to domi 
nate the Realms and conquer the other great godly powers. 
As a result of the Time of Troubles, the power of a deity is 


directly related to the size and fervor of belief of his, her, or its 
followers. The Cyrinishad is a powerfully enchanted tome that 
causes the reader or listener to become a fanatical follower of 
Cyric. In this way, Cyric hopes to convert all the followers of 
other powers of the Realms to his faith, thereby destroying 
them and allowing him to attain the position of the only 
power in the Realms. 

After a great many drafts (397), the Cyrinishad was fin 
ished. Its power was to be tested on Fzoul Chembryl, but the 
god Mask was impersonating him at the time and read the 
book in his stead. The tome was successful in weaving its web 
of lies into its reader's consciousness, and Mask only escaped 
its complete domination by excising portions of Mask's own 
godly power. Any lesser creature would undoubtedly be total 
ly ensnared by the power of this book. 

The Cyrinishad was to be read to the people of Zhentil 
Keep, but (the real) Fzoul instead read a blasphemous text. 
The True Life of Cyric, that rebutted Cyric's dogma. The read 
ing was the beginning of the destruction of Zhentil Keep. The 
real Cyrinishad was later entrusted to Rinda the Scribe, who 
had created it unwillingly under extreme coercion by Cyric. 
Rinda was rendered undetectable by the god Oghma (in a 
manner presumably similar to that of Alias of the Azure 
Bonds) and entrusted with keeping the book from the hands 
of Cyric and his followers. 

C4.mp4.igw Use 

The Cyrinishad is one of the most dangerous books in the 
Realms. If it is read, it turns its reader into a fanatical follower of 
Cyric, who then seeks to spread the word of Cyric throughout 
the Realms. As a result, it is continually hunted by agents of the 
church of Cyric, as well as other powers who wish to either uti 
lize its power as a bargaining chip or destroy it utterly. 

To make matters worse, there are a number of early drafts 
of the Cyrinishad that lack the magical powers of the final 
book. Most of the early drafts were destroyed (along with 
their scribes), but apparently one or two survived, at least in 
part, to make it into general circulation. This means that 
Cyrinishad sightings may be found throughout the Realms. 
These nonmagical drafts lack the artifact power of the true 
Cyrinishad, and they may be destroyed like any normal book. 

PoLuerzs 

The Cyrinishad has the following powers: 

Constant: The reader of the Cyrinishad becomes a fanati 
cal follower of Cyric. A successful saving throw vs. spell at -4 
to the roll allows an individual to stop reading before the 
conclusion of the book. Even a successful saving throw 
results in the reader being under the effect of afeeblemind 
spell until a heal or a wish spell is used to cure that condition. 





127 















Those listening to the book read aloud are forced to make 
a saving throw vs. spell. Those who make a successful saving 
throw immediately suffer the effects of a fear spell and seek to 
escape the speaker. Those fail their saving throw (or those 
who cannot escape the reader's voice) become fanatical fol 
lowers of Cyric. 

Those affected by the Cyrinishad believe all written within 
the book to be true: Cyric is the one true deific power of the 
Realms, supreme above all other deities, and the only individ 
ual worth venerating. Priests of other deities immediately 
become clerics of Cyric. (Those with the necessary prerequi 
sites may become specialty priests.) Alignment of any convert 
changes immediately to chaotic evil, and such an individual 
continues to spread the "good word" of Cyric. 

Once a person is converted, only a full wish spell negates 
the effects of the Cyrinishad, and this only gains the individ 
ual a new saving throw vs. spell (with the feeblemind effects as 
noted above). Creatures of godly nature may shed the effects 
of the book, but at the effective cost of one level of their 
power. (A lesser power, such as Mask, becomes a demipower, 
a demipower becomes a quasi-power, and a quasi-power loses 
all godly power.) Being affected once by the Cyrinishad does 
not provide immunization from the book -one may be affect 
ed upon another reading. 

Suggested Means of Destruction 

• The book must be immolated in a fire of absolute purity. 

• The book must be turned over to Ao himself, who will 
place the book (and its godly author) into a separate plane 
of existence. 

G<vzgoyLo CLo<\k 

XP Value: 2,500 GP Value: 6,000 

his dusty gray cloak confers on the wearer a +2 bonus on 
all saving throws vs. petrification. The gargoyle cloak can 
also be called on once per day by the wearer's silent mental 
command to enact its major power, which is to turn the wear 
er into a gargoyle in many respects. The wearer can remain a 
gargoyle, as described below, to a limit of one turn, and may 
return to normal at any time before the turn is up. Once 
ended, the power cannot be reactivated for 24 hours (144 
turns). A gargoyle cloak must be worn to be activated. 

When its major power is activated, the cloak transforms 
itself in one round into a gargoyle shape around the wearer. 
During that round, the wearer can do nothing but move. 
Application of a dispel magic during this round prevents the 
cloak from transforming for one turn, though activation of its 
major power can be attempted again later; a 24-hour wait is 
not necessary. 


The cloak expands to cover the wearer's body and cloth 
ing with a stony overskin, wings, and a tail, until the wear 
er resembles a gargoyle. Worn or carried magical items are 
unaffected, but only objects carried in the hands or worn on 
the fingers and around the throat (such as bags of coins or 
material components) can be accessed while in gargoyle 
form. 

The wearer retains normal speech. Dexterity, skills, and 
presence of mind. A spellcaster still able to reach necessary 
material components can cast spells normally. In gargoyle 
form, the wearer becomes AC 5, has a MV of 9, FI 15 (C), a 
THAC0 of 15, and four attacks per round (two claws at ld3 
points of damage each, a bite that inflicts ld6 points of 
damage, and a horn slash-and-gore that deals ld4 points of 
damage). The wearer gains 90-foot-range infravision and 
can be hit only by a +1 or better magical weapon. A gar 
goyle cloak -wearer aloft or swooping down to attack on the 
wing can only attack with its horn or both claws. To use all 
four attacks, the gargoyle cloak -wearer must be on the 
ground. 

Changing the cloak back from gargoyle form into a gar 
ment requires one round. During that round, the wearer 
can only move about and, if a spellcaster, cast spells requir 
ing only verbal components. Sememmon, the commander 
of Darkhold, often wears his gargoyle cloak when going into 
known combat situations. 

Maco of 

DakIcki&ss 

XP Value: 1,000 GP Value: 9,000 

hese weapons are used by many evil priests and war 
riors across the Realms. They are always aligned. 
(Maces used by priests of Bane, for example, would be law 
ful evil.) These metal maces are fearsomely spiked, and are 
enchanted to a +2 attack roll bonus. They deal ld8 points 
of damage per strike to both man-sized and smaller and to 
larger than man-sized targets. 

The bearer of a mace of darkness can cause the grasped 
mace to create darkness 15' radius for one or two rounds. 
This darkness is centered on the mace head and moves as 
it does. Once the darkness ends, it cannot be activated 
again until two rounds have passed. 

A mace of darkness emits a snarling noise whenever it 
strikes a good-aligned creature. The weapon cannot be 
confused as to the target's alignment. Beings of any align 
ment, other than that of the mace, who touch it suffer 
2d4 points of electrical damage per contact or round of 
contact. 




128 












r 


•i 



i* r r**" 











* 



V. 





¥ 



vEiwixxA- QudoHsi Aid i* wd rnaconrs Hti >i '¦ ¦¦ ."¦ ..L* ¦"-¦! I">-7SJI, Inc. 

Thu THR 1 1¦ a11 ii a i railrmuk u^-ncd I'.v TS.Hv ¦ 

W:i. TSIL Inc*. .VII Hi^hlt IV**wd I'i ifc* ¦ ¦¦!%¦'*¦ 


\ 


. r, 


i 


liaoxKxiefli 





W-iT^ 


K.J&, 

\mwi 

[1.1 yr3F - 


i;'.W j 



L ^';-*.'h: 4 **- ¦ \'ir< . ^ * ¦ '^Wi 




























A tfvanced gur^e^s^gragons 



Ru)W 5 Of 

ZbewTil- Keep 

A<bv>ewTuRe Boot 


By Kevin Melka and John Terra 


CowTewTs 

Introduction. 2 

Felled Hopes.3 

Story Background.3 

NPCs of Snowmantle.3 

The Zhents.6 

Beginning the Adventure.8 

Invitation to Adventure.8 

Dagger Falls.9 

Ambush.12 

Snowmantle.12 

Snowmantle (map) ..14 

Escaping Snowmantle.19 

The Lost. 19 

Location of the Lost (map).20 


Returning to Snowmantle.21 

Reading the Scroll.21 

Conclusion.22 

Sinister Conviction.23 

Story Background.23 

NPC Capsules.24 

Starting the Adventure.25 

Plots and Subplots.26 

The Conflict So Far.27 

Stallac's Domain.27 

The Blessings of Bane.28 

The Underground Complex.28 

Rest and Recuperation.29 

Treasure.29 

Spies and Eyes.29 

Keyed Locations.29 


Conclusion .46 

Buying Time.47 

Story Background.47 

A Noble Calling.47 

Running the Gauntlet.49 

Adventurers' Map 

of Zhentil Keep.51 

Knock, Knock.52 

At the Defiant Gesture.53 

Prophet and Loss.55 

The Sewer Section.55 

Sewers Under 

Zhentil Keep (map).56 

The Older Keep.59 

The Caverns.61 

Conclusion.64 


Credits 

Design: Kevin Melka and John Terra 
Editing: David Wise 
Editorial Assistance: Julia Martin 
Cartography: Diesel 
Cover Art: Fred Fields 

Interior Illustration: Eric Hotz and Scott Johnson 
Typesetting: Angelika Lokotz 
Production: Paul Hanchette 

Special thanks to Ed "Elminster" Greenwood 


Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, Dungeon Master, Forgotten Realms, and 
Monstrous Compendium are registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

The TSR logo. Monstrous Manual, and Planescape are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 
(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade 
for English language products of TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any repro 
duction or other unlawful use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without 
the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

1120XXX1902 


TSR, Inc. 
201 Sheridan Springs Rd. 

Lake Geneva 
WI 53147 
U.S.A. 



TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End 
Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 

























































IbftnoducTiobJ 

There be many places for ye to find adventures across the Heartlands, but only the brave, the desperate, 
or 
the foolish seek such in Zhentil Keep. Even so, many seek adventure against the forces of the keep and 
the 
Black Network. This is where adventurers have to decide whether what they do is for greed ... or valor. 

- Terristar Proudmane, Harper 


Adventurers? They do make a wonderful snack! 


-Manxam the Beholder 



his booklet contains the adventures of the Ruins of Zhentil Keep box. Therefore, it holds infor 
mation strictly for the Dungeon Master (DM). If you plan to play any of these adventures, do 
not read any further! DMs, however, should read each of the adventures before running them 

The three adventures contained herein are designed to run in coordination with the 


Campaign Book, MONSTROUS OMPENDIUM(r) 

boxed set. Hence, it is further recommended that the DM review these portions of the product before 
gathering 
together a party of heroes to explore each scenario. 


first one occurs either before or immediately following the Time of Troubles (somewhere between 1357 
and 1368 
DR), the second begins soon after the Banedeath of 1361 DR, and the third commences at a point 
directly fol- 

Because of the span of years between the adventures, they 
need not be played in order. (In fact, the DM may choose to invoke time travel to play all three 
adventure in any 
order.) They do, however, work best when played in their specific time periods; if set at different times, 
the DM 
needs retrofit them accordingly (changing Banite clerics to Cyricist ones, for instance). 

The first adventure, "Felled Hopes," requires the PCs to attempt to disrupt (at least temporarily, but 
preferably 
permanently) the Zhentilar occupation of the village of Snowmantle. Located west of the Citadel of the 
Raven, 
Snowmantle has been conquered by the forces of Zhentil Keep and converted into a lumber camp to 
process tim 
ber from the Border Forest. Not only is the Zhentilar use of slave labor objectionable, but their 
desecration of the 
forest has gamed the attention of many of the forest's residents, including druids and other powerful 
woodland 
denizens. So far, the Zhentilar have been defeated all attempts to drive them away, and they have killed 
most of 
the local druids. 

The second adventure, "Sinister Conviction," propels the heroes into a conflict of significant proportions 
in 
the underground complexes of tombs, sewers, and ruined and forgotten cellars below the streets of 
Zhentil Keep. 
Several underground networks exist down there, and this adventure delves into one of the largest. (The 
DM is 
encouraged to take advantage of the existence of so many complexes by creating additional lairs and 
connecting 
passages to other areas, filling them with monsters and plots of his or her own fiendish devising.) 
"Sinister 
Conviction" places the adventurers between two powerful forces who fight for supremacy beneath the 
cobbled 
streets. These events take place in the city after the Time of Troubles, but before those incidents that 
occur in the 
novel Prince of Lies. 

The third adventure, "Buying Time," returns a major villain to the Realms. Iyachtu Xvim, purported son 
of 
Bane himself, seeks to ascend to his sire's throne and claim his father's portfolio, lost to Cyric after the 
Time of 
Troubles. This scenario occurs after the destruction of Zhentil Keep in the Prince of Lies, and it sets the 
stage for 
further adventures in the ruins of the city. The events leading to the conclusion of this adventure will 
shape the 
face of Zhentil Keep and the Moonsea for years to come. 

A Note on NPC Abbreviations and Combat Statistics: The normal FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) campaign set 
ting NPC abbreviations have been clarified somewhat for the Ruins of Zhentil Keep box. Priests and 
wizards have 
been previously abbreviated with the letter "P" or "W" followed by the level of the NPC, leaving unclear 
whether 
the priest is a cleric or specialty priest of a particular deity, and whether a wizard is a mage or a 
specialist wizard. 
Therefore, in Ruins of Zhentil Keep these two classes are now abbreviated with "P" for specialty priests, 
"C" for 
clerics, "W" for specialist wizards, and "M" for mages. 

Also, to make combat statistics a little easier on the DM, THACOs in the following adventure are 
presented 
in the following way: "THACO Base melee (including Str)/Base Missile (when different from base melee 
THACO, including Dex)." THACOs for magical items and weapon specialties follow the base THACOs and 
include all applicable modifiers (except situational modifiers such as range). Movement rates are also 
shown with 
the true land movement of the creature including its encumbrance; the encumbrance level is noted in 
parenthe 
ses following the movement rate. Two abbreviations used in this product not seen in previous combat 
summary 
statistic blocks are "SW' and "MI." SW is special weakness; MI is magical items useful in combat that 
have not 
already been mentioned under AC or THACO. 



^ >> V- 


2 















FeLLe<b Hopes 

Throughout time, humankind has abused the trees and the land. Though humans are often protectors of 
nature, they are just as often the harbingers of destruction for the peaceful inhabitants of the woods. 
But all 
forests across Faerun have their protectors, whether they be human, beast, or something produced by 
nature. 

-Darin Pathfinder, ranger and protector of Archwood 


his is the first of three adventures revolving around the forces that control 
ifi Zhentil Keep. This scenario is designed to be played by four to six characters 
1\ at the 4th to 6th level of experience. The party should be of good align- 
11 ment-possibly members of the Harpers or their associates-and some of the 
player characters (PCs) should be inclined toward nature, like rangers and 
druids. Evil and chaotic neutral PCs are not recommended, as their ethics and morals are too close to 
those of the Zhentilar. And certainly the PCs must not be members of the Zhentilar, the Black 
Network, or any other organization whose ethics and morals would conflict with the central theme 
of this adventure, which is to work against Zhent clear-cutting of the Border Forest around 
Snowmantle. 

This scenario takes place after the conquest of the Citadel of the Raven and right after the Time 
of Troubles, but before the Banedeath. Note that the priests of Bane in this adventure can easily be 
changed to priests of Cyric if this would serve to better fit them into a DM's individual campaign 
world. 


Stony B&dkgnoumd 

S nowmantle is a small village located just within the edge of the Border Forest. This settlement 
of less than 50 people is populated by humans and a few elves, who live off the land and trade 
rare herbs and mushroom wine to the communities of Daggerdale and Shadowdale. They lived in 
peace for hundreds of years-until the coming of the Zhents. The Zhentarim have been present in 
Snowmantle since 1330 DR, patiently waiting for the time when they could safely conquer the com 
munity without retaliation from the Dalelands. 

After the cooperative effort to rebuild the Citadel of the Raven began, the Black Network 
already had a number of spies seeded into the peaceful village of Snowmantle. The day after Zhent 
forces took over the Citadel of the Raven in 1355 DR, Zhentilar forces-with the help of those 
Zhentarim spies in the community-overpowered and enslaved the quiet hamlet. Snowmantle is 
now a base for Zhent lumbering in the Border Forest. The Black Network employs slave labor and 
Zhentilar troops to raze the trees, process the wood, and ship it off to Zhentil Keep, Darkhold, or the 
Citadel of the Raven. 


NPC$ of SwocumdKiTLe 

T he following five NPCs are major players in this adventure, and the DM should integrate them 
into the scenario to steer the PCs in the right direction, not complete the adventure for them. 


Lak)$&kH SwocumaNffte 

Half-elf Male, lOth-level Druid 


THACO 14; #AT 1; Dmg ld8 ( scimitar), ld6 (spear), or ld6 (quarterstaff) (currently unarmed); AC 
10; hp 63 (currently 22); MV 12; SA Spells, identify plants, animals, and pure water, pass without 
trace through overgrown area, immune to woodland charm, shapechange three times a day, +2 to 
saving throws vs. fire and lightning, 60' infravision, bonus to detect concealed and hidden doors; SD 



3 















30% resistance to sleep and 
charm; SZ M (6'2" tall); AL 
N; ML 16. 

S 10, D 14, C 12, I 14, 
W 17, Ch 16. 

Personality: Quiet, gen 
tle, diplomatic, good field 
strategist, forgets nothing, 

hates wolves. 

Spells ( 6/6/4/3/2 ): 1st: 

Animal friendship, cure light 
wounds (x2), entangle, faerie 
fire, locate animals or plants; 2nd: Charm person or mammal, 
goodberry, heat metal, know alignment, trip, warp wood; 3rd: Call 
lightning, summon insects, tree, water walk; 4th: Call woodland 
beings, neutralize poison, plant door 5th: Pass plant, transmute 
rock to mud. 

Patron Deity: Sylvanus. 

Languages : Common, elvish, centaur, druidic, dryad, 

gnomish, hill giant, orcish, satyr, treant. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Scimitar, spear, staff. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Animal training (badger), direction 

sense, fungus identification. 

Lanseril is a native of Snowmantle. He has brown hair, blue 
eyes, delicate features, and he is ambidextrous. He stands 6'2" 
tall and weighs 100 lbs. He is 58 years old. (Lanseril is detailed 
in the FR7 Hall of Heroes accessory.) 

The druid's mother was a beautiful maiden of the village, and 
his father was an elf of the forest. Upon becoming a druid, 
Lanseril learned that his father was one of the Lost-an ancient 
race of elves who disappeared deep into the forest over 30 years 
in the past (see page 19). Lanseril's parents were killed when he 
was just six years old, so he was raised by a local druid named 
Haemfaest "Holloweye" Sarthun. Years later, following the 
death of his mentor, Lanseril left Snowmantle and eventually 
became a Knight of Myth Drannor. 

Upon learning of the conquering of Snowmantle, Lanseril 
petitioned the Knights and the Harpers for help to drive the 
Zhents from his home village, but both factions regretfully stated 
they were too preoccupied with other matters to help at the 
time. Ever more determined to save his home town, Lanseril 
came to the Border Forest alone to rally the creatures of the 
woods. After several successful weeks of hampering the efforts of 
the Zhents, however, Lanseril was captured, and many of his fel 
low druids died in an attack by a dozen Zhentarim mages who 
were specifically called in for the task. Since then, with no one 
to lead them, the creatures of the forest have made a few ran 
dom attacks, but they have done nothing to impede the 
encroaching axes of the Zhents. 


Currently, Lanseril languishes in the newly built Snow 
mantle prison. It would be an easy matter for him to escape 
(by shapechanging into a sparrow or other small animal), but 
he has been told that five slaves will be killed upon discovery 
of his flight, and another will be executed each hour until he 
returns-starting with residents of Snowmantle who are his 
closest friends. 

WaLTeR Ge&bsToroe 

Human Male, 5th-level Ranger 

THAC0 16; #AT 2 or 1; 
Dmg By weapon; AC 7; hp 
33; MV 12; SA Attacks 
with two melee weapons, 
HS 36%, MS 45%, track 
ing, +4 attack vs. giants; SZ 
M (5'11''tall); AL NG; ML 
14. 

S 16, D 17, C 14, I 15, 
W 15, Ch 14. 

Personality: Courageous, 
reserved, quietly noble. 

Walter Geddstone is an accomplished ranger who is a mem 
ber of the Harpers, out of Shadowdale. Walter was sent to 
Snowmantle over a month ago by Elminster himself to assess 
the Zhent situation. Aside from reporting back the number of 
Zhents present, Walter has been unable to relay any other infor 
mation. He has been posing as a slave, having simply walked 
into the slave house one day with the rest of the Snowmantle 
residents, right under the noses of the Zhents. Since the exact 
number of slaves is carefully counted, Geddstone managed to 
free one of them and take his place. 

If the PCs are taken into slavery, or if they attempt to gain 
his confidence, Walter carefully attempts to determine if the 
PCs are Zhentarim agents. If the party somehow gains the 
confidence of Walter (the simplest way is to show him a 
Harper's pin, which will be given to the party at the start of 
the adventure), he informs its members of Snowmantle's cur 
rent situation (and any basic information regarding the 
Zhents listed in this adventure), and he confirms any report 
that Lanseril is in the prison block. He can also inform the 
party that Korin Ironnugget, Juliana Saan, and Willard 
Gooseford (see below for information on them all) are resi 
dents of Snowmantle who are sympathetic to the cause. Any 
one of these NPCs can assist the PCs with help if they are 
slaves, or with information if they are not. 

No matter what the outcome of the adventure, Walter 
stays in Snowmantle, either to help the people or to rebuild 
the village. 

























KorzibJ InosisiuggeT 

Dwarf male, 2nd-level Fighter 

THACO 19, 16 war hammer 
+ 3; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+3 
(war hammer + 3); AC 6 
(scale mail); hp 20; MV 3 
(moderately encumbered); 
SZ M (4' 1" tall); AL CG; 
ML 13. 

S 18(22), D 13, C 17, I 
13, W 14, Ch 10. 

Personality: Cautious, 
dour, hard-working. 


Korin is an aging dwarf who wished to live out his years in 
Snowmantle, away from the Zhents of the Moonsea. Un 
fortunately, the Zhents came to him when they occupied 
Snowmantle. After the takeover, Korin reluctantly offered his 
services as blacksmith to Ragnoth to avoid induction into the 
slave-labor pool. 

When he can, Korin sneaks food and water to the slaves, 
usually when they bring in wagons with broken wheels or horses 
that have thrown a shoe. The slaves have asked him to give 
them weapons, but the majority of them know little about war 
fare; giving them weapons would only get them killed and Korin 
implicated and then executed by the priests of Bane. If the party, 
posing as slaves, asks Korin for weapons (he has short and long 
swords), he considers doing so only after consulting Walter 
Geddstone. 

Jut )awa Saanj 

Human Female, lst-level Ranger 

THACO 20; #AT 2 (sword 
and dagger) or 1 (quarter- 
staff); Dmg ld8 (long 
sword), ld4 (dagger), ld6 
(quarterstaff); AC 9; hp 6; 
MV 12; SA Attacks with 
two melee weapons, MS 
10%, HS 15%, tracking, +4 
to attack vs. ores; SZ M 
(5*7" tall); AL NG; ML 10. 

S 10, D 15, C 15, I 15, 
W 13, Ch 16. 

Personality: Courageous, organized, slightly naive. 

Juliana has been the owner of the Singing Dryad, in 
Snowmantle, since her father was killed during the Zhentilar's 
initial attack. She is a comely 19-year-old woman who operates 
the Dryad with the help of slaves assigned to the task by the 




Zhentarim mage Ragnoth (see page 6), who uses the tavern as a 
mess hall for his troops. A storage area in the rear of the struc 
ture holds the foodstuffs sent here to feed both the soldiers and 
slaves. Meals are prepared by Juliana and are supervised by Noth 
(LE hm C2), a Banite priest who sees that the slaves get only 
their allotted amount of food and water over the course of the 
day. 

Juliana has been extremely brave in the face of the Zhents 
and her father's death. She does what she can to smuggle extra 
food and water to the slaves, as many of them are her friends. 
She also keeps an ear out for information spilled by any of the 
drunken Zhentilar who frequent the Dryad each evening. 
Juliana gives information to the PCs only if told to do so by 
Walter Geddstone or Korin Ironnugget. Over the last few weeks, 
Juliana has overheard the following rumors: 

• A badger has been seen wandering through Snowmantle dur 
ing the night, and it has killed a guard. Ragnoth has offered a 
20-gp reward to the person who kills it. (True: The badger is 
a friend of Lanseril-see page 17.) 

• A group of Harpers has been sighted outside Snowmantle. 
(False: This rumor was spread to keep the guards on their 
toes, and it has nothing to do with the PCs.) 

• One of the slaves is a spy, though the Zhents do not know 
who. A missing slave gave Glorganna the information. (True: 
Under torture, a slave confessed to the presence of a Harper 
among the slaves. He died before revealing who the Harper 
was, and a speak with dead spell revealed nothing. The Harper 
is, of course, Walter Geddstone.) 

W)tti\rz& Goose fond 

Human Male, 7th-level Ranger 

THACO 14; # A T 5/2 
rounds; Dmg ld6 (short 
sword) and ld4 (dagger); 
AC 9; hp 33; MV 12; SA 
Attacks with two melee 
weapons, HS 43%, MS 
55%, tracking, +4 to attacks 
vs. trolls; SZ M (6'2" tall); 
AL CG; ML 12. 

S 10, D 15, C 12, I 16, 
W 18, Ch 13. 

Personality: Clever, "dod 
dering." 



Willard is one of the oldest surviving residents of Snow 
mantle as well as the uncle of Lanseril Snowmantle (on his 


5 


























mother's side, but only Willard and Lanseril know this). Willard 
is over 70 years old, and he feigns senility, frailness, and a hear 
ing problem so the Zhents do not consider him a threat. Willard 
makes mushroom wine for the Zhents in an effort to keep him 
self and the residents of Snowmantle alive long enough to liber 
ate the village. 

Willard has been in contact with his nephew through 
Lanseril's badger friend Lawrence (see page 17), and both are 
waiting for the right moment to take back Snowmantle. Since a 
large portion of the contingent of Zhentilar troops normally sta 
tioned here have temporarily returned to the Citadel of the 
Raven, Willard and Lanseril are readying their plans, though 
both doubt their success. If Willard is taken into confidence by 
the party, he uses Lawrence to tell Lanseril of the PCs' efforts to 
help. 

Th& ZbewTs 

T he majority of Zhents in the Snowmantle area are 
Zhentilar troops who harvest the trees and watch the 
slaves. To avoid strife among the ranks, the soldiers trade off 
shifts, cutting trees and watching slaves. To fill out the com 
mand ranks of the Zhents, there are Zhentarim mages and a 
handful of priests of Bane. There have been a few disagreements 
between these two factions, but overall they have worked well 
together, considering past conflicts. 

This logging operation is, for the most part, run by a 
Zhentarim mage named Ragnoth and a priestess of Bane named 
Glorganna. Ragnoth is in charge of the day-to-day operations of 
timber harvesting and shipping, while Glorganna makes sure the 
slaves and remainder of the town's folk behave. (For a worshiper 
of Bane, this often means beatings, torture, and all-too-common 
"mercy killings.") 

RagwoTb of The ZbewTaRlro 

Human Male, 9th-level Mage 

THACO 18/16; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (quarterstaff); hp 
30; AC 7; MV 12; SA 
Spells; SZ M (5'10" tall); 
AL LE; ML 13; XP 2,000; 
MI Wand of polymorphing, 
rod of alertness. 

S 15, D 17, C 16, I 17, 
W 14, Ch 10. 

Personality: Methodical, 
cold, Machiavellian. 

Spellbook (4/3/3/2/1): 1st: 
Alarm, change self chill touch, detect magic, friends, light, magic 
missile, sleep, spider climb, wall of fog; 2nd: Blur, ESP, invisibility, 


Melfs acid arrow, minor image, strength, wizard lock; 3rd: Blink, 
explosive runes, hold person, lightning bolt, protection from good 15' 
r., spectral force, wraithform; 4th: Dig, hallucinatory terrain, poly 
morph other, wall of fire; 5th: Conjure elemental, stone shape, tele 
port, transmute mud to rock. 

Ragnoth is a master planner, which is why he was chosen for 
this job. He is an excellent administrator who has turned a tidy 
profit running this operation. Ragnoth is a slender man, seldom 
seen in anything other than his black wizard's robes. In the for 
mative stages of the lumbering operation, there was an intense 
rivalry between him and the priestess Glorganna, but they have 
since come to terms, and Ragnoth now trusts the woman with 
the "morale" of the labor pool. When forced to act, the wizard 
uses his polymorph spell and his wand of polymorphing to change 
troublesome slaves into toads, then crushes them beneath his 
feet. The Zhentarim mage is cold and calculating, and he takes 
great offense at spies (especially Harpers) interfering with what 
he has built. 

In addition to his formidable spells and wand (containing 33 
charges), the wizard also carries a rod of alertness (25 charges). 
Ragnoth's second in command is Endugous Than, a mage whom 
the party may or may not encounter in an ambush (see page 12). 
Ragnoth is also in charge of five other minor Zhentarim mages 
who, despite their traitorous nature, follow his commands to the 
letter. Each of them carries lOdlO gold pieces. 

Endugous Than, hm M6: THACO 19/18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (quarterstaff); AC 6; hp 19; AC 4 (bracers of 
defense AC 6, Dex bonus); MV 12; SZ M (6' tall); AL LE, 

ML 10; XP 1,400. 

S 12, D 16, C 16, I 17, W 14, C 14. 

Personality: Cunning, self-interested, ambitious. 

Spells (4/2/2): 1st: Magic missile, charm person, phantas 
mal force, sleep; 2nd: Alter self (cast already), Melfs acid 
arrow; 3rd: Fly, hold person. 

Minor Zhentarim Mages, hm M4 (5): THACO 19; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); AC 8; hp 10, 12, 14, 15, 15; 

MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M (5'10" tall); INT High; AL LE; 

ML 10; XP 420. 

Personality: Power-hungry, greedy, cowardly. 

Spells (3/2 - choose from this list): 1st: Alarm, change self 
chill touch, detect magic, friends, light, magic missile, sleep, spi 
der climb, wall of fog; 2nd: Blur, ESP, invisibility, Melfs acid 
arrow, mirror image, strength, wizard lock. 

GloRgawwa, 

V)g)LawT TaLow of Bawe 

Human Female, 8th-level Cleric 

THACO 16 (15 sickle +1); #AT 1; Dmg ld4+2 (sickle +1); AC 4 

















(chain mail +1); hp 37; MV 
12; SA Spells, paralytic poi 
son (see below); SZ M (6'3" 
tall); AL LE; ML 13; XP 
4,000. 

Personality: Cruel, ambi 
tious, paranoid. 

S 10; D 14; C 15; I 16; 
W 17; C 15. 

Spells commonly carried 
(5/5/4/2): 1st: Cause fear, 
cause light wounds, com- 
2; 2nd: Dust devil, hold person 
x2, know alignment, zone of truth; 3rd: Cause blindness, cause dis 
ease, curse, dispel magic; 4th: Cause serious wounds, detect lie. 


hp 13 each; MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SA Spells; 

SZ M (5'11" tall); INT Avg; AL LE; ML 11; XP 175. 
Personality: Power-hungry, cruel. 

Spells commonly carried (4/2): 1st: Command, cure light 
wounds, cause Eight wounds, cause fear; 2nd: Hold person, 
silence 75' radius. 

Grtimbohies the Bold 

Human Male, 7th-level Fighter 

THACO 13, 12 long sword; #AT 2; Dmg ld8+3 (long sword); 
AC 2 (chain mail, shield, Dex); hp 44; MV 9 (lightly encum 
bered); SA Weapon spec, in long sword (+1 attack, +2 damage); 
SZ M (6'2" tall); AL LE; ML 15; XP 1,400. 

S 17, D 16, C 15, I 14, W 14, Ch 12. 

Personality: Critical, treacherous, aggressive, greedy. 



A loyal follower of Fzoul Chembryl, Glorganna was sent to 
Snowmantle because of her hatred of the wilderness and her 
ability to "control" people. At first Glorganna resented the 
assignment, having been sent where she would be constantly 
surrounded by trees and creatures of the forest. But when the 
foresters started to rebel, followed by denizens of Border Forest, 
the corrupt cleric discovered great delight in destroying their 
homes and bringing them to their knees, slaying without 
mercy. 

Glorganna is a tall, comely woman who has no interest in 
companionship, as the worship of Bane and the dominance of 
the church ever remain foremost in her life (though rumor has it 
she was involved with Fzoul for some time, and that a lover's 
quarrel sent her to Snowmantle). Before she became a priest of 
Bane, Glorganna was a follower of Loviatar, so she is an expert 
in methods of forcibly extracting information. She is extremely 
paranoid about spies in Snowmantle and follows up even the 
smallest clue or rumor of their existence. 

In addition to the magical items listed in her combat summa 
ry, Glorganna carries a paralytic contact poison that she applies 
to her sickle. A failed saving throw vs. poison indicates a victim 
is paralyzed for 4d4 turns. Also, anyone whose saving throw 
result is a natural 1 must immediately make a successful System 
Shock Survival check or their heart stops, killing them instant 
ly. Glorganna has 30 total doses of this substance, half of which 
are at the temple (see the Snowmantle map on page 14). 

A group of seven other Banite priests are also present here, 
all fiercely loyal to Glorganna, Fzoul, and the God of Strife. 
Unlike Zhent mages, these priests of Bane are not corruptible 
or bribable, and they are deadly and unpredictable when con 
fronted. 

Trusted Servants of Bane, hm C3 (7): THACO 20; 

#AT 1; Dmg ld4+l (mace); AC 6 (ring mail and shield); 


Grimbones is the commander of the Zhentilar of Snow 
mantle. The Zhent captain is not only in charge of logging and 
slave recruitment, but is responsible for all Zhentilar activities, 
on and off duty. Any problems with the troops are brought 
directly to Grimbones (although discipline is usually handled by 
Glorganna). After seeing several of their comrades tortured to 
death or worse, only fools or those drunk on mushroom wine 
dare act against any Snowmantle superiors, and Grimbones 
never hesitates to take prisoners. 

Zhentilar troops under his command are occupied mostly by 
harvesting timber and watching slaves, but they also protect 
Snowmantle and their fellow Zhents from the rebellious crea 
tures of the forest. Recent attacks by forces of the forest have left 
them nervous and upset, so many of them stare obsessively into 
the forest, looking for an attack. This tension often leads to 
troops drowning their worries in mushroom wine during their off 
hours at the Singing Dryad. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm & hf F3 (60): THACO 18; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); AC 7 (ring mail); hp 18 
each; MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; 

AL NE (40)/CE (20); ML 10; XP 120. 

Personality: Military, plodding. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm & hf F4 (30): THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); AC 7 (ring mail); hp 24 
each; MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; 

AL LE (23)/CE (7); ML 11; XP 175. 

Personality: Military, obedient. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm & hf F5 (10): THACO 16 (15 
long sword); #AT 3/2; Dmg ld8+2 (long sword); AC 5 
(chain mail); hp 30 each; MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SA 
Weapon spec, in long sword; SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE 
(7)/NE (3); ML 12; XP 420. 

Personality: Military, cunning, cruel. 







7 

















The soldiers each carry 5d4 gold pieces, though most of them 
spend their coin on mushroom wine or gamble it away, so they 
only have ld4 gp late at night, after a visit to the Singing Dryad. 
There is a feeling of camaraderie among the soldiers, and new 
comers are treated with caution (as they may be Zhentarim 
spies). 

Beg)ww)wg 
the A6v>ewTme 

T he ultimate objective of this adventure is for the PCs to 
liberate Snowmantle from Zhent occupation. There are 
several ways they can become involved in this emancipation, 
depending on the situation in the DM's current campaign. Use 
one of the following suggestions as a basis for beginning of this 
adventure. 


• The PCs are summoned by Lord Moumgrym to Shadowdale. 
A member of the Knights of Myth Drannor, Lanseril 
Snowmantle, has not been heard from since returning to his 
home village of Snowmantle in an effort to free it from Zhent 
occupation. The PCs are asked to travel to Snowmantle, 
evaluate the situation, and possibly rescue Lanseril. The 
Knights of Myth Drannor are currently occupied in Sembia 
and cannot aid in Lanseril's rescue. The party is to travel to 
Dagger Falls, locate a recruiter there, and attempt to find 
work as lumberjacks in the occupied village. 

• If one or more of the PCs are members of the Harpers, they 
are summoned to Shadowdale at the request of Lord 
Moumgrym, who asks the party to travel to Dagger Falls dis 
guised as mercenaries looking for work in Snowmantle. They 
are to assess the strength of the Zhent occupation there, and 
if possible strike a serious blow to the Zhent operation. 


In either case, the PCs should be strongly cautioned that it is 
vital to maintain their cover as long as possible. The Black 
Network is too firmly entrenched to be defeated in a frontal 
assault, and the party cannot hope to succeed if identified as a 
group of spies or troublemakers. This may mean staying their 
hands when they are insulted, standing quietly by while the 
Zhents perform acts of cruelty, or participating in the timber 
operation while they gather intelligence. Actually, one of the 
best ways to infiltrate the operation is for the PCs to allow them 
selves to be enslaved! (See "Ambush," on page 12.) In short, 
this is an adventure where role-playing and quick thinking can 
win the day, while sword and spell must be held in check until 
the moment is right. 

Remember that the PCs are headed into a dangerous area. 


full of sinister mages, wicked priests of Bane, and the forceful 
hand of the Zhentilar troops who have taken over the territory. 
The PCs should not be able to simply waltz right in and take 
whatever they wish from the Zhent forces. The Zhentarim and 
the Zhentilar are some of the most cruel and vicious humans 
and humanoids on the face of Faerun, and should not be 
pushovers for PCs of the levels listed above. 

Inv)TaT)on" 

To A6veK)TuRe 

T he adventure begins in the presence of Lord Moumgrym 
of Shadowdale. Once the players are ready, read the fol 
lowing introduction: 


"As you may or may not know," begins Lord Moumgrym, 
"the village of Snowmantle has recently been conquered by 
forces from Zhentil Keep. This once-peaceful village is now 
a slave-labor camp where Zhentilar troops and mercenaries 
fell trees and slaves process the wood. All the while, inno 
cent people die horrible deaths at the hand of the Zhen 
tarim. The fat Lords of Zhentil Keep are growing rich off 
the broken backs of this village! 

"Recently, my old companion Lanseril Snowmantle took 
a leave of absence from the Knights of Myth Drannor to aid 
the druids and creatures of the forest in a liberation of 
Snowmantle, or at least to slow their logging operation 
until his fellow knights could arrive. Unfortunately, the 
Knights have informed me that they will be unable to assist 
Snowmantle for sometime. This presents a problem for the 
town and Lanseril. Worse still, Lanseril has failed to contact 
me in several days. I fear he has been either captured or 
killed by the Zhents, as he does not answer my homing 
pigeon messages. 

"I want you to travel to Snowmantle, disguised as merce 
naries, and assess the situation. If you find Lanseril and cir 
cumstances are right, you're to try and free him. If he's dead, 
return to Shadowdale with a report on the number of 
Zhentilar troops, Zhentarim mages, and priests of Bane pre 
sent in the village. 

"You may begin your quest in Dagger Falls, to the north, 
posing as mercenaries looking for work. If my sources are 
correct, you'll find a Zhentilar recruiter there. A strong 
show of force here is important-if the Zhentilar think 
you're weak, they'll attempt to capture you as slave rather 
than pay you for your services. On the other hand, slavery 
would provide a perfect cover for you, as the Zhentilar are 
less likely to closely watch a 'lowly slave.' 


8 















"In either case, I will give you a Harper's pin, which will 
prove to Lanseril that you came to Snowmantle at my 
request. So, what say you, heroes?" 


For those groups who adventure for gold rather than loyalty 
to the Harpers or the Knights of Myth Drannor, Lord Mourn- 
grym offers each group member 1,000 gold pieces for his or her 
services-payable only upon return. For those petitioning to 
become Harpers, saving Lanseril and Snowmantle will go a long 
way to becoming one of Those Who Harp. Once the party 
agrees to the terms, Lord Mourngrym provides the following, 
additional information: 

• The last report by Lanseril (by way of carrier pigeon) stated 
that there were between 400 and 500 people in and around 
Snowmantle. Of that number, half are reported to be 
slaves-either former members of the village or poor souls 
captured by the Zhents across the Heartlands. Many druids 
and creatures of the forest have fled or been killed. 

• The PCs should be wary of Zhentarim mages and priests of 
Bane. If the PCs act suspiciously in any way, the Zhents may 
attempt to determine their true nature with magic. If the 
party gives them no reason to act, however, it should be able 
to pass among them unnoticed. If the heroes' cover is blown, 
then they shall almost certainly have to abandon the mission 
and fight for their own survival. Spellcasting is to be avoided at 
all costs, as it will draw immediate suspicion of espionage upon the 
caster! 

• There is a Zhentilar agent in Dagger Falls who hires merce 
nary workers for Snowmantle. Mourngrym is unsure of who 
the contact is, but a known Zhentilar named Tharwin One- 
eye could possibly put the party in contact with him. 
Tharwin owns a shady tavern call the Broken Dagger. 

• The PCs should not attempt to approach Snowmantle with 
out a Zhentilar escort. Those who come to Snowmantle 
unannounced are often questioned by priests of Bane with 
detect lie spells. If the adventurers approach Snowmantle in 
the guise of Zhentilar, they had best have their story straight 
or they will similarly be subjected to inquiry-type spells. 

• A Harper named Walter Geddstone attempted to infiltrate 
Snowmantle before Lanseril tried it, and he has not been 
heard from since. There is a chance he may still be in the 
area and could help if the PCs find him. Walter is an accom 
plished ranger and is nearly as familiar with the surrounding 
territory as Lanseril. 


Lord Mourngrym supplies the PCs with any nonmagical 
items they require for the mission, including mundane weapons 
with which they can "lose" a fight and become enslaved (saving 
their own, enchanted possessions from capture). He suggests 
that the party pose as unshaven, crude, obnoxious mercenaries 
looking for work. Objects like holy symbols and known crests 
should be concealed from view. If pressed, Mourngrym provides 
the PCs with up to 50 gold pieces, stating that to give them any 
more would attract suspicion since they are supposed to be look 
ing for work. Once the PCs pass into Dagger Falls, they will be 
on their own. 

If the party questions Lord Mourngrym about Lanseril, para 
phrase the information about the druid in the NPC section (see 
page 3). Be sure to include a cryptic reference to the Lost (see 
page 19). 

Dagger Fails 

T his formerly peaceful dale community is now a harbor for 
both covert and overt Zhent (Zhentilar and Zhentarim) 
activity. Dagger Falls, part of the area known as Daggerdale, is 
little more than a military state ruled from behind the scenes by 
Zhent puppets and Zhentarim-sponsored officials. 

The party requires three days on foot, or two days on horse 
back, to reach Dagger Falls by way of the Tethyamar Trail. Since 
the countryside of Daggerdale is a lawless area, the DM may 
insert random encounters into the adventure as the party travels 
north. Once the party enters Dagger Falls, it is a simple matter 
to find the Broken Dagger tavern. 

Although it is not needed to run this adventure, the 
FORGOTTEN Realms adventure FRQ3 Doom of Daggerdale 
details Dagger Falls at length. Should the PCs decide to explore 
the city, that module adds to the adventure's possibilities. If the 
DM does not have access to the scenario, she or he can simply 
inform the party that time is of the essence and it would be best 
if they sought out the Broken Dagger as soon as possible. The 
DM can also insert patrols of Zhentilar throughout the streets of 
the city, to show the party that wandering aimlessly may have 
drastic consequences. If the party still insists on exploring 
Dagger Falls, remind them that it is an easy task to get arrested 
and sent to Snowmantle as a slave rather than a mercenary. 

The BRokew Dagger 

This tavern is the embodiment of the "dirty and deadly" estab 
lishment. A constant flow of Zhentilar soldiers, ores, mercenar 
ies, and other riff-raff gather here to drown their sorrows in 
cheap ale. Because of the Dagger's clientele, seldom does a night 
go by without a brawl. The bar is owned by an ex-Zhentilar 
tracker named Tharwin One-eye, who still acts as a Zhentilar 
and Zhentarim contact-for a price of course. 
















Tharwin One-Eye tends bar at the Broken Dagger. 


It is an easy task for the party to find the Broken Dagger, as 
most people know where the tavern is, if only to avoid it. Once 
the party enters, read the following boxed text. 


The Broken Dagger is the filthiest cesspool of a tavern you 
have ever seen on the face of Faerun, both in appearance 
and clientele. Rats run freely here, while ores and ruffians 
toss darts at them to see who buys the next drink. Barrels 
and broken furniture line one wall, while Zhentilar troops 
sit at a few stained and carved-up tables. A one-eyed man 
behind the bar spits in a glass and attempts to rub it clean as 
he watches you enter. 


Tharwin One-eye is already measuring the party to assess 
their potential-and his profit margin-but he is not the only 
one to notice the PCs as they enter. Several other Zhentilar, 
looking to earn an easy bounty for bringing back more slaves, 
are evaluating the PC's strengths to determine if they are easy 
targets. Once the party approaches Tharwin about work in 
Snowmantle, read the following: 


"Sure I know 'bout Snowmantle," slurs Tharwin. "If yer 
lookin' fer work with fair pay, Zhents from Snowmantle 
need fit men and women to harvest timber in the Border 
Forest. They pays good coin fer a fair day's work, and there's 
bonuses in it if ye knows how to wield a sword agin them 
nasty forest critters. 

He smiles, revealing a mouthful of broken, discolored 
teeth. "For a price, ol' One-eye can puts ye in touch with 
the right people. For a price, ye know." 


For a bribe of no less than 20 gold pieces, Tharwin in 
forms the PCs that a Zhentilar captain named Grimbones the 
Bold should be walking into the tavern "any minute now." If 
the party waits, Tharwin points out Grimbones when he 
enters for lunch (or breakfast or dinner, depending on the 
time of day). While they wait, there is a 30% chance that a 
brawl breaks out and they are dragged into it. If they interact 
with the other patrons, allow role-playing to dictate whether 
a fight breaks out instead of percentile dice. 


10 















































































The Daggers PaTttowage 

While the PCs wait for Grimbones to arrive, they are wit 
nesses to the unsavory activities of the Broken Dagger, and 
may find themselves drawn into them if not careful. The tav 
ern is filled with a squad of off-duty Zhentilar soldiers, a small 
group of ore mercenaries, and a quiet Zhentarim wizard who 
lies low in a far corner. The squad of fighters is here to pass 
the time before going on duty in an hour. They are currently 
throwing darts at a small group of rats running along a far 
wall. (Tharwin gives the soldiers a free drink for every three 
rats they kill.) Currently, these Zhents are rather bored with 
the game and would be more than happy to initiate a fight 
with a tough-looking PC. Since they are not currently intoxi 
cated, these Zhentilar will not draw their weapons and fight 
to the death, which would be a violation of Zhent law in 
Dagger Falls-as is the unauthorized casting of spells. Both 
offenses are punishable by arrest and enslavement in the tim 
ber operation. 

If the PCs draw weapons or begin to cast in response to 
verbal abuse, Tharwin warns them that doing so is a viola 
tion of Zhent law, but arguments settled with fists are fair and 
legal fights. If the PCs ply their weapons or cast spells any 
way, then the battle turns bloody and an additional 12 Zhent 
guards arrive in ld6+2 rounds, to make arrests or finish the 
PCs. Assuming the PCs respect the law, however, treat all 
combat in an ensuing fight as nonlethal damage (using the 
Punching and Wrestling Results table found in the "Combat" 
chapter of the Dungeon Master(r) Guide). 

If the party has elected to go undercover as slaves, this is 
an ideal opportunity to be captured, or at least to appear 
weak in order to invite capture along the road to Snow- 
mantle. (See "Ambush," below.) If the party members prove 
to be easy pickings for the Zhentilar, but remain within the 
law by not drawing weapons or casting spells, they are tagged 
as possible slave material by the soldiers and the Zhentarim 
mage in the comer. Anyone who breaks the law in the midst 
of the brawl is immediately arrested by the Zhentilar and 
taken to Snowmantle as a slave. 

Should the party members draw weapons, cast spells, and 
defeat all the Zhentilar soldiers, they discover Grimbones the 
Bold watching them from the door when the battle ends. He 
is impressed with their fighting prowess and readily agrees to 
hire them as protection for the lumber operation, but they 
will be watched very carefully for a few days. (See "Arrival in 
Snowmantle," on page 15.) 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm F3 (12): THACO 18; #AT 

1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); AC 5 (chain mail); hp 18 

each; MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL 


LE; ML 10; XP 120. 

Personality: Greedy, aggressive, bored. 

The ore mercenaries in the bar are always looking for 
trouble, but they are in need of money and are waiting for 
Grimbones to arrive so they can inquire after employment. If 
the PCs openly reveal that they are looking for work in 
Snowmantle, they make instant enemies out of the ugly 
humanoids. Since there are only five ores, they are careful 
not to begin any fight they cannot win; they have been 
around Zhents long enough to know better than to pick a 
fight with a superior foe. However, they do not hesitate to 
join the Zhentilar soldiers if the PCs draw weapons, or to 
pick a fight after the PCs lose one to the soldiers. 

If the party loses a fight with the Zhentilar soldiers (on 
purpose or otherwise), the ores become more abusive, unwit 
tingly tempting the PCs to reveal their true strength and 
nature. If the party is role-playing the situation properly, the 
DM can have some fun by letting the ores taunt them, make 
rude remarks, and otherwise bait them into fighting. 
Otherwise, the ores are more than content to sit back and 
wait for Grimbones to arrive. 

Ores (5): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short 
sword); AC 6 (scale mail); HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 9 
(lightly encumbered); SW -1 to attack in sunlight; SZ 
M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 12; XP 15. 

Personality: Aggressive, cowardly. 

The Zhentarim mage sitting in the corner is Endugous 
Than, a minor mage seeking fame and power in the North. 
(See page 6 for a full description.) Endugous is also content 
to sit back and watch how the PCs handle the Zhentilar sol 
diers (and/or the ores). If the PCs appear weak or untrained 
when confronting the soldiers, the mage views them as 
potential slaves and has a private meeting with Grimbones, 
to discuss ambushing the PCs on their way to Snowmantle 
(see "Ambush," below). Also, if any of the PCs display spell 
casting abilities, Than becomes suspicious of the party's true 
nature, which increases the number and strength of the 
aforementioned ambush. The Zhentarim are extremely wary 
of spellcasters who are not members of the Black Network, 
whether they are mages or priests. (Harpers are, after all, 
everywhere.) Than avoids combat here if possible. 

If any of the PCs attempt to speak with the Zhentarim 
mage, he appears quite friendly as he seeks to determine their 
intentions. He is mildly inquisitive about spellcasters and the 
origins of each PC. If questioned about himself, he claims to 
be a merchant traveling through Dagger Falls on his way to 
Cormyr and Sembia. 



11 











GRimbowes the Bold 

After a half hour of game time or the resolution of any en 
counters, whichever comes first, Grimbones arrives for a 
meal and a pitcher of cheap ale. He is a large man who rose 
through the ranks of the Zhentilar on his fighting skills and 
tactical abilities. Grimbones is a husky 6 feet tall, weighs 
225 pounds, and is sincerely loyal to the Zhentilar and 
Zhentarim. 

Grimbones currently works as a recruiter for the Zhentarim 
in control of Snowmantle. He is on the lookout for both able- 
bodied warrior types and also weak, defenseless individuals 
who are candidates for slave labor. This is one of the first 
things Grimbones considers when the PCs introduce them 
selves as mercenaries seeking employment. After brief intro 
ductions with the Zhent captain, read the following boxed 
text. 


Grimbones continues to eat while addressing you. "So, yer 
interested in work, are ye? The job is cuttin' down trees, 
haulin' timber to the wagons, guarding slaves, and fighting 
off them pesky critters that attack us while we're fellin' 
wood. The job pays 20 gold pieces a week, plus incentives 
for killin' them little buggers in the forest. As long as you 
follow the rules, there'll be no troubles. What say you? Are 
you interested in some hard, honest work?" 


If the PCs haggle with Grimbones, he goes so far as to give 
them a signing bonus of 20 gold pieces, but tells the party to 
get lost if they ask for any more. Grimbones is leaving for 
Snowmantle soon, and if the PCs want the work they can 
meet him on the Tesh Trail, just outside of the city limits, in 
an hour. 

Ambush 

T he trip to Snowmantle takes two days. The DM can 
throw a few random encounters of his or her own devis 
ing at the PCs to challenge them as they travel rugged Zhent 
territory if desired. However, main purpose of this encounter is 
to attempt to capture the PCs and integrate them into the 
slave-labor force in Snowmantle. There are several reasons to 
use this encounter: (1) The PCs appeared weak during their 
time in Dagger Falls, having been beaten up by the Zhentilar 
or bullied by the group of ores; or (2) the Zhentarim mage wit 
nessed one or more of the PCs cast spells, and he suspects they 
are spies or rival Zhentarim. 

The ambush occurs on the Tesh Trail after an hour of trav 
el, just before the group breaks north for Snowmantle. During 


the following encounter, Grimbones pretends to be on the 
side of the party until it is certain they are about to be defeat 
ed, at which time he switches sides. If Grimbones thinks that 
his ambush is about to fail, he turns on his own lackeys, ensur 
ing their deaths so they cannot implicate him. 

The Zhentarim mage, Endugous Than, casts spells at the 
PCs from a nearby ridge. If it appears the ambush is about to 
fail. Than flees, proceeding to Snowmantle ahead of the 
party by way of a fly spell. Remember that he notes any spell- 
casters he sees in the party and reports this information to 
his superiors. Furthermore, if he has witnessed spellcasting by 
the party back at the Broken Dagger in Daggerdale (see page 
11), the number of Zhentilar soldiers in the ambush is 
doubled (to 20). 

Because of an alter self spell, the PCs will not recognize 
Endugous Than later in the adventure. Whatever the out 
come of the battle, Grimbones should survive and lead the 
PCs to Snowmantle, either as employees or slaves. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm F3 (10): THACO 18; #AT 1; 

Dmg ld8 (long sword); AC 5 (chain mail); hp 18 each; 
MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; 

ML 10; XP 120. 

Personality: Greedy, plodding, but dutiful. 

Grimbones the Bold, hm F7: THACO 13, 12 long 
sword; #AT 2; Dmg ld8+3 (long sword); AC 2 (chain 
mail, shield, Dex); hp 44; MV 9 (lightly encumbered); 

SA Weapon spec, in long sword (+1 attack, +2 dam 
age); SZ M (6'2" tall); AL LE; ML 15; XP 1,400. 

S 17, D 16, C 15, I 14, W 14, Ch 12. 

Personality: Critical, treacherous, aggressive, greedy. 

Endugous Than, hm M6: THACO 19/18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (quarterstaff); AC 6; hp 19; AC 4 (bracers of 
defense AC 6, Dex bonus); MV 12; SZ M (6' tall); AL 
LE, ML 10; XP 1,400. 

S 12, D 16, C 16, I 17, W 14, C 14. 

Personality: Cunning, self-interested, ambitious. 

Spells (4/2/2): 1st: Magic missile, charm person, phan 
tasmal force, sleep; 2nd: Alter self (cast already), Melfs 
acid arrow; 3rd: Fly, hold person. 

S M o <x> ro a joTL e 

F ounded in the Year of the Wailing Wind (1000 DR) 
by a small group of humans and elves, the village of 
Snowmantle was a quiet and peaceful community protected 
by local residents, creatures of the forest, and the hidden 
forces of the Lost-a group of reclusive and mystical elves 
who live deep within the Border Forest. Citizens of this for 
est community are foresters and craftspeople living comfort- 


12 













ably off the land. Until the Zhentilar invaded, the people of 
Snowmantle had little contact with the outside world. 

The only thing unique to Snowmantle, beside its famous 
Knight of Myth Drannor, is the mushroom wine that is pro 
duced here year round. This beverage is derived from a plenti 
ful mushroom native only to the Border Forest. Harvested 
mushrooms ferment in spring water for several months (the 
actual amount of time depends on the quality and potency 
desired) and are then strained and the resulting wine stored 
in small casks or clay jugs to produce the libation. Inhabitants 
of Snowmantle and nearby communities have developed a 
taste for this peculiar drink, though a resident of Waterdeep 
would likely spit it out-it is an acquired taste. 

ZbewT PrzoffTs 

With concerns over the insurrection of the Citadel of the 
Raven in the Year of the Harp, very few denizens of the 
Heartlands noticed the quiet occupation of Snowmantle by 
the Zhentilar and Zhentarim. Most of the original residents 
of the village have been made slaves, and there also are some 
slaves who have been taken from other nearby villages; pass 
ing travelers have fallen prey as well. 

The Zhents have a simple purpose in Snowmantle: It is a 
base for a timber operation in the Border Forest. The sale of 
lumber and wood-based products has become very profitable 
for Zhentil Keep, and the troops and wizards here answer to 
the Council of Lords of Zhentil Keep not of one individual 
lord (or the Black Network). After paying expenses for har 
vesting and transporting the lumber, the profits are divided 
among the 17 lords of the Council. 

After spending some time in Snowmantle, the Zhents 
have realized that production of mushroom wine could be 
profitable, too, as many of the Zhentilar troops have grown 
accustomed to the piquant brew. In addition, the Zhents 
have discovered other byproducts of the timber operations: 
wood chips and sawdust. Slaves are constantly put upon their 
knees to gather these incidental commodities from the 
grounds near the mill and the cutting tracts in the forest. 
The slaves then put the materials into burlap sacks, which 
are sold as "firestarter bags." These products, which ignite 
easily and burn for about 10 minutes, are sold to the wealthy 
who are too lazy or inept to start their own hearth fires. 
Needless to say, the product is a hit with the lords and other 
rich citizens of Zhentil Keep. 

All in all, the lords of Zhentil Keep have profited greatly 
from the Snowmantle operations. Considering that they have 
harvested only a fraction of the Border Forest, the Zhents 
plan to be here for a long time, unless someone-like the 
PCs-stops them. 


HAtiv&sTltog 

The Zhents have a very simple system for harvesting timber, 
processing it, then shipping it to its destination (Zhentil 
Keep, the Citadel of the Raven, or Darkhold) for use or distri 
bution. Deep in the forest, Zhentilar troops (with occasional 
help from Zhentarim mages) fell the trees, and slaves load 
them onto wagons that take them to Snowmantle. There, 
Zhentilar cut the bark from the wood while slaves hand-saw 
the logs into planks. Afterward, the lumber is inventoried and 
shipped off to its final destination. 

Key To SwocumAKffl-e 

1. Lumber Mill: This building was built specifically by the 
Zhentilar troops to cut logs into lumber suitable for transport. 
There are always a minimum of 10 guards here, watching the 
slaves and assisting in the cutting. Unless there is a shortage 
of healthy male slaves or the processing is behind schedule, 
the Zhentilar troops normally just watch the slaves work. 

2. Stables: There are dozens of horses in Snowmantle, used 
to pull logs to the mill and across the Heartlands. There are 
always between 20 and 30 light and medium horses stabled 
here every evening, under the watch of five Zhentilar guards. 

3. Blacksmith: The only dwarf to ever live in Snowmantle 
is Korin Ironnugget (see page 5). In addition to repairing 
Zhent armor and weapons, Korin shoes horses and mends 
wagons. Korin does what he can to help slaves when they 
bring horses and wagons here for repair, but his shop is always 
under close watch by Zhentilar troops. 

4. The Singing Dryad: This establishment is another of 
the few businesses to survive the occupation of Snowmantle, 
though the original owner was killed in the takeover. The 
business has since been taken over by Juliana Saan (see page 
5), daughter of the late owner. Juliana is helpless to stop the 
Zhent occupation, but she does what she can for the little bit 
of resistance the slaves offer. Fearing the Zhentarim will take 
away all that she has left of her father, Juliana is extremely 
careful of whom she speaks with. Since this is the only tavern 
in Snowmantle, many drunken Zhentilar with loose lips fre 
quent the establishment. Juliana usually hears anything said 
in the Singing Dryad. 

5. Slave House: This building was once Snowmantle's 
meeting hall, but it has since been turned into a place for 
slaves to rest during the evening hours. There are a total of 44 
male and 27 female slaves here by night, most of which were 
residents of Snowmantle and members of nearby Dales com 
munities. The conditions here are deplorable, as the unwashed 
wretches sleep on floors, rotting hay, and each other. There is 
a visible attempt by the Zhentilar to keep the slaves clean and 
healthy, but their current efforts are not enough to prevent the 


13 















death of slaves due to the poor environment and working con 
ditions. 

6. Prison: This building is used to house unruly slaves, 
possible spies, and Lanseril Snowmantle (see page 3 and page 
17). This area is one of those operated by Glorganna and her 
followers. This building has a separate section for extracting 
information from spies. In addition to the priests of Bane, five 
Zhentilar guards are stationed here to guard the 10 cells. 

6A. Temple of Bane: This building was newly built for the 
followers Bane, and it is used as both a temple and living quar 
ters. The vile corruption in this building causes all spells cast by 
Banites to have maximum effect, and all saving throws against 
such magic are rolled with a -4 penalty. A secret door in the 
altar contains 445 gold pieces, 119 platinum pieces, 15 doses of 
Glorganna's poison (see page 6), and a book of vile darkness. 

7. Manor House: This building is the most elaborate in 
Snowmantle. It used to belong to the mayor of the village, 
who was killed during the Zhent invasion. The manor house is 
now the home of Ragnoth and his Zhentarim wizards. All ritu 
alistic and especially important spells are cast within this struc 
ture. The minor wizards sleep in the guest quarters, to the 
southeast. Hidden in a secret cache in the basement is Rag- 


noth's treasure: 788 gp, 1,102 sp, 335 ep, four potions of healing, 
a wizard scroll with cone of cold on it, and his grimoire. 

8. Villagers' Dwellings: These structures were once the 
simple living quarters of the residents of Snowmantle, but 
they are now occupied by Zhentilar soldiers. Zhent troops 
who have been productive or particularly brave in facing the 
creatures of the forest are given these personal quarters, which 
house two to six soldiers. 

8A. Barn: This structure is Snowmantle's community barn. 
It was once home to chickens, cows, and lambs, but has since 
been converted to house Zhent supplies. Currently, the barn 
holds crates of extra weapons (nonmagical long and short 
swords), saws and axes, barrels of water and wine (replenished 
once per month), and assorted items of war. (The DM may 
choose to place items related to the overall campaign here.) 
The bam is always guarded by six Zhentilar soldiers. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm & hf F4 (6): THACO 17; #AT 
1; Dmg ld8 (long sword); AC 7 (ring mail); hp 24 each; 

MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE 
(23)/CE (7); ML 11; XP 175. 

Personality: Military, obedient. 



















































































































































9. Wine Factory: This is where Snowmantle's mushroom 
wine is created from fungi native to the Border Forest. The 
majority of the mushrooms grow south, north, and east of Snow- 
mantle, and this has so far saved those portions of the forest 
from destruction. The factoiy is operated by Willard Gooseford, 
a 70-year-old retired ranger who has yet to pass on the secret of 
mushroom wine to an apprentice or confidant. (See page 5 for a 
full description of Willard.) Because of this, the Zhents have 
allowed him to live, and they even pay him for producing the 
wine, though the price they pay is far below his former norm. 
Willard has two female assistants who help him produce 
between 10 and 20 casks of wine per week, along with about 20 
to 30 smaller clay jugs (sealed with cork and wax stoppers), if 
the harvest of mushrooms is sufficient. Willard is currently liv 
ing in the factory, as the Zhentilar have confiscated his house. 

10. Zhentilar Barracks: These new buildings were built to 
house Zhentilar troops. Since many who were previously sta 
tioned here have temporarily returned to the Citadel of the 
Raven, several sections of the ban*acks are empty. Each soldier 
has a bunk and a locked footlocker. The key to each footlocker 
lies with the owner of the contents, but Ragnoth has a master 
key. The footlockers contain clothing, spare weapons, armor, 
tools for weapons maintenance, and personal items. They also 
may contain coins. Roll ldlO: 


Die Roll Coins Die Roll Coins 


1-2 

Nothing 

8 

ld20 

gP 

3-4 

2d4 cp 

9 

3dl0 

gP 

5-6 

ld6 sp 

10 

ldl2 

PP 

7 

2d8 gp 





11. Trail East: This path through the eastern edge of the 

Border Forest forks after a few miles. The left trail leads to the 

Citadel of the Raven and the right joins the Tesh Trail, to the 
south. One or two wagons laden with lumber leave Snow- 

mantle by this road eveiy day, but their destinations are known 

only to Ragnoth and the wagons' drivers. 

12. Felled Trees: This section of the Border Forest stretches 
long beyond the boundaries of the Snowmantle map. The land 
has already been cleared of trees by the Zhents; all that remains 
are stumps, piles of sawdust and wood chips, and turned up 
ground. Slaves are often found here, collecting wood chips and 
sawdust in burlap sacks (as described in the Zhent Profits sec 
tion on page 13). The slaves used for this duty are usually those 
who are too weak (from age or injuiy) to fell trees, and who will 
eventually perish in these rough fields. 

13. Trail Southwest: This beaten path is used to travel to 
the edge of the harvesting operation, currently one mile west 
of Snowmantle. Each morning a contingent of 50 Zhentilar 
soldiers, two mages, two priests of Bane, 30 slaves, and four 


long wagons travel to the edge of the forest and raze as many 
trees as they can in order to be back in Snowmantle by sunset. 
Even the smallest amount of rain causes transportation prob 
lems, requiring the entire company to help pull the wagons 
out of muddy grounds. (This might present the ideal opportu 
nity for PCs to put a plan into action.) 

EvetoTs ihJ SwocumaMTl-e 

While the PCs are in Snowmantle, several events occur, even 
tually leading them to the Lost, a band of elves who are their 
only hope of ridding Snowmantle of the Zhentilar (see page 
19). The events are designed to remain usable whether the 
PC's are hired as Zhentilar or are brought to Snowmantle in 
chains. 

Note that the DM need not use all of these events. Most of 
them simply provide additional encounters for the scenario, 
although the Lawrence the Badger encounter may be pivotal to 
the heroes' ability to find the Lost elves. The DM is encouraged 
to add other events that fit into the scenario, as long as they fit 
into the overall theme of the adventure. 

Arrival in Snowmantle 

If the ambush against the party failed, Ragnoth and Glorganna 
are slightly suspicious of the PCs at first, but these misgivings 
fade after three days unless the party begins to ask strange ques 
tions or makes itself the center of attention. (Known spellcasters 
are never free of suspicion-see below.) There should be no mis 
take that they are being watched, at least until they settle into 
the routine of their new roles. 

There are fewer Zhentilar troops in Snowmantle than Lord 
Mourngrym believes (see page 9), as some of them have been 
ordered away to reinforce the Citadel of the Raven from possible 
retaliation from the Dalelands. That is why Grimbones was in 
Dagger Falls, recruiting help to harvest timber. If the PCs want 
to count the troops for the purpose of making a report to Lord 
Mourngrym, they must declare their intention to do so and then 
track the soldiers for ld4+l days, at which time the DM can 
give them an approximate count. 

If the heroes are hired as workers, the party spends the first 
few days helping process lumber at the mill. After two days, they 
are assigned to cut down trees one mile from the village. If the 
party is taken in as slaves, they are assigned to work with a group 
of five other slaves, including Walter Geddstone. For the first 
few days the PCs are told to gather sawdust and wood chips 
around the lumber mill area. On the third day and afterward, 
they are assigned to load logs onto carts deep in the forest. Far 
from Snowmantle, they should have an easier time escaping so 
they can put into action any plan they may conceive. 

All party members are casually watched for the first couple 
days, after which time the Zhents think of them as whatever 














Creatures of the Forest 


they seem to be. However, anyone who suspected of being a 
wizard will have a 24-hour watch on them from a distance 
(make a 35%-chance hide in shadows roll, then call for 
Wisdom checks from the PCs if it fails). Suspected priests are 
another matter, as Glorganna trusts no clerics but the followers 
of Bane. Those who act as clerics of a good or neutral faith- 
who are seen casting curative spells or other generally good- 
aligned spells-are ordered to report to the cleric of Bane, 
where they are questioned about their origins. Those who 
answer unconvincingly are next questioned with the aid of 
truth-detection magic. A cleric whose identity is detected is 
immediately taken to the prison to await execution in the 
morning, which will probably blow the adventuring party's 
cover, since they will almost surely be forced to attempt a res 
cue. Besides, Glorganna will want to know if the captured cler 
ic is alone. This is an option the DM should exercise only if 
cleric PCs are careless in their actions. If desired, the Dungeon 
Master may choose to aid a captured PC with one of the major 
NPCs (see page 3), who will help him or her escape and flee 
the scene. 

Food and Water 

PCs who are slaves are given a ration of food and water each 
day, which is enough to keep their strength up, although it is 
not particularly satisfying. Each day on this diet requires a suc 
cessful roll vs. a PC's Constitution score or Strength drops by 1 
point. A lost Strength point can be recovered if the PC slave 
makes two successful Constitution checks in a row. Anyone 
reduced to a Strength of 3 or less becomes too weak to work 
and is beaten to death by a Zhentilar, if not the Zhent is not 
prevented from doing so by other PCs (which, again, could 
well blow their cover). 

Escaping Slave 

During the PCs' first day in Snowmantle, a slave (a young 
woman named Willa) makes a run for the woods near a ran 
dom PC (or group of PCs). If the PC is posing as a mercenary, 
she or he is expected to stop the slave. (Other Zhents will 
cry, "Stop her!") Allowing Willa to escape results in grave 
consequences: Glorganna will question the PC with detect lie 
and know alignment spells, and the result of these questions 
will more than likely cast the PC into the role of spy. The 
penalty for espionage is imprisonment and execution in the 
morning. However, with the PC's cover blown, she or he may 
receive help from other NPCs in Snowmantle (at the DM's 
discretion). 

If the PCs are slaves and stop their escaping comrade, they 
are elevated to the status of trustee, and they are assigned to 
help with the cooking at the Singing Dryad or to help Willard 
at the wine factory. 


At some time during the PCs' stay in Snowmantle, a group of 
forest creatures led by a group of hybsils attacks the Zhentilar. 
The creatures' objective depends upon the PCs' location: If they 
are in the forest cutting trees, the creatures assault the Zhents 
cutting wood, and if the PCs are in Snowmantle, the creatures 
are attempting to free Lanseril. Though the forest denizens man 
age to kill a few Zhents here and there, they are soon overpow 
ered by superior forces. Without Lanseril to lead them, they 
have no hope. If the PCs try to help the forest creatures, they 
risk the wrath of the Zhents themselves. Tempt the PCs to blow 
their cover by giving them a chance to save a Zhent's life or let 
him die (or a woodland creature's life); their action or inaction 
could give them away. 

Hybsils (10): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short 
sword or flight arrow); AC 7; HD 1; hp 6 each; MV 15; 

SA Sleep arrows; SD +4 to saving throws, immune to poi 
son HS 75%, F/RT 50%, continual light, mirror image, pass 
without trace, and ventriloquism (once per day, all spell-like 
abilities); SZ S; INT Avg; AL LG; ML 10; XP 420. 

Arrows are coated with a toxin that results in ld4 hours of 
sleep if a saving throw vs. poison with a -4 penalty is failed. 

Hybsil Leader D5: THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l 
(sickle); AC 7; hp 31; MV 15; SA Identify plants, ani 
mals, and pure water; SD +4 to saving throws, immune to 
poison HS 75%, F/RT 50%, continual light, mirror image, 
and ventriloquism (once per day), pass without trace at will; 

SZ S; INT High; AL LG; ML 15; XP 2,000. 

Spells (3/3/1): 1st: Bless, cure light wounds, entangle; 

2nd: Charm person or mammal, heat metal, warp wood; 3rd: 

Call lightning. 

Wild Dogs (2): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (bite); 

AC 7; HD 1 + 1; hp 8, 5; MV 15; SZ S; INT Semi; AL N; 

ML 5; XP 35. 

Wolves (2): THACO 18; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l (bite); 

AC 7; HD 3; hp 15, 12; MV 18; SZ S; INT Semi; AL N; 

ML 10; XP 65. 

Spy 

If the PCs are slaves, the weakest one (physically) among them 
is brought before Glorganna and told she or he is to be an infor 
mant, helping Glorganna to uncover a Harper spy who she is 
convinced is among the ranks. The PC will be rewarded for 
bringing her information on anything the slaves are either dis 
cussing or planning. Useful information will be rewarded with 
extra food and water. If the PC brings her no information (true 
or not), Glorganna will beat him or her down to half his cur 
rent hit points. This event occurs for this particular PC once 
each day. 

















Homing Pigeon 

A homing pigeon sent by Lord Mourngrym to Lanseril over a 
week ago has finally arrived in Snowmantle, having gotten lost 
in a storm on its way to the Border Forest. The PCs spot the bird 
with a message tied to its leg, hopping around outside Lanseril's 
prison cell. It does not fly away if approached, but approaching it 
almost surely attracts the attention of the Zhentilar (85% 
chance unless precautions are taken). Since the bird has never 
been handled by any of the PCs, a successful attack roll is 
required to seize the fluttering quarry as it hops about nervously. 
Pigeon statistics are: AC 6, MV 6/15 FI (B), 6 hp. 

The PCs must discreetly capture the bird and destroy the 
note before the Zhents notice it themselves (which occurs in 
one turn). If they fail and the message falls into the hands of the 
guards, then a spy hunt begins in earnest, and each of the PCs 
will be called in and questioned about their past and their 
knowledge of the "conspiracy." (If the PCs respond convincing 
ly, no magic is used to extract the truth; there are lots of slaves 
to question, after all.) 

The message, dated last week, reads as follows: Lanseril, I have 
yet to receive your latest report on Zhent activity, and 1 am worried. 
Other agents of Shadow dale will be sent at your request, I only await 
your word-Lord Mourngrym. 

Fight at the Singing Dryad 

If the PCs are hired as workers and spend an evening at the 
Dryad, they gain the notice of a Zhentilar press gang, led by a 
half-ore named Gruel, who attempts to shake down the PCs for 
up to 10 gold pieces if they wish to enter the tavern. He is 
backed by six soldiers. 

Gruel and his gang fight with fists only unless the PCs draw 
weapons. Using weapons against anyone but a slave is forbidden 
by Ragnoth, and there is a conspicuous sign on the wall that 
states as much. The small print below "No Fighting By Order of 
Ragnoth" states that those who draw first forfeit a week's pay, 
and those who draw first blood will be made slaves. What is 
worse, any word of violence quickly reaches the ears of both 
Ragnoth and Glorganna, making the party more visible in the 
eyes of the Zhent leaders. 

Gruel, hom F5: THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg ldlO (two- 
handed sword); AC 5 (chain mail); hp 35; MV 9 (lightly 
encumbered); SZ M (5'10" tall); INT Low; AL LE; ML 
12; XP 420. 

Personality: Stupid, violent. 

Gruel's Gang, hm & hf F3 (6): THACO 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld6 (short sword); AC 7 (ring mail); hp 19 each; 

MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL 
NE; ML 10; XP 120. 

Personality: Obnoxious, rowdy. 


Lawrence the Badger 

Lawrence is a giant badger with a much higher than normal 
intelligence (Int 8), who has bonded with Lanseril. Since 
Lanseril's capture, Lawrence has been living under Willard 
Gooseford's house, coming out only at night and attempting 
to contact his master. A few days before the PCs' arrival, 
Lawrence was spotted outside Lanseril's window, and Glor 
ganna's paranoia (and her knowledge that Lanseril is a druid) 
has prompted her to order the creature killed on sight. 

The party has a chance to encounter Lawrence when they 
are taken into Willard's confidence, during one of Lawrence's 
attempts to contact his master, or at the request of Lanseril 
himself. Lawrence can also lead the party to Lanseril if neces 
sary (though this is an unlikely scenario, as virtually everyone 
knows where he is), but the badger's most important function 
is to lead the PCs to the Lost elves (see below). 

It is in the party's best interests to keep Lawrence alive. The 
badger has learned to avoid the Zhentilar rather well, and the 
most likely way he could be put in danger's way is through the 
ignorance or ill-conceived actions of the party. DMs who con 
sider alignment an important factor in role-playing can chal 
lenge the party's goodness by putting Lawrence in jeopardy 
because of them. Once Lawrence identifies the PCs as allies, 
he will trust them implicitly, perhaps even foolishly. Allowing 
the animal to be killed should not only cost the heroes experi 
ence points, but it could well hurt their chances of completing 
the adventure. 

Lawrence the Giant Badger (1): THACO 17; #AT 3; 

Dmg l-3/l-3/ld6; AC 4; HD 3; hp 15; MV 6, Br 3; SZ M; 

INT 8; AL N; ML 10; XP 65. 

LdKJserziL SwocuroaNffte 

Sooner or later, the PCs should attempt to contact Lanseril 
Snowmantle. If they do not decide to do so themselves after a 
week in town, one of the druid's NPC allies should suggest that 
they contact him. Any reasonable attempt to contact him 
should succeed, but the DM should make the attempts more 
difficult if the PCs are under the watchful eye of Glorganna, 
her followers, and Zhentarim mages. Of course, if the party has 
been arrested for some reason (such as drawing weapons at the 
Dryad, and so on), they can easily speak with Lanseril from a 
cell next from his. In that case, they will need to find a way out 
of the prison to complete the mission. If they can manage this 
feat with a plan of their own, so much the better, but Lanseril 
can help them by commanding Lawrence and the creatures of 
the forest to dig a tunnel to the PC's cell. 

As mentioned, Lanseril has not escaped from prison be 
cause Ragnoth has threatened to kill five slaves the moment 

= 4 | 



17 














Lawrence the badger communicates with Lanseril 
Snowmantle in his cell. 


his flight is discovered, plus one slave every hour until he 
returns. Since many of the slaves are residents of Snow- 
mantle-and his friends as well-he does not wish to take 
such a risk until he is sure he can defeat the Zhents. This pos 
sibility has yet to materialize. 

The prison itself is simply laid out, containing 10 cells and 
a set of offices near the northern entrance. There are four 
Trusted Servants of Bane on guard here at all times, and Glor- 
ganna herself spends some time here during daylight hours. 
The priestess spends her evenings worshiping in the house of 
Bane, or questioning slaves or Zhentilar, but is only found in 
the prison if she is torturing Lanseril. If the PCs attempt to 
contact Lanseril too soon after their arrival, the DM can place 
Glorganna in the prison to discourage their entrance. 

For the first two days after the party arrives in Snow- 
mantle, two Zhentilar soldiers are locked in cells adjacent to 
Lanseril, and they can hear everything said to the druid, 
should the party try to speak with him. (Lanseril understands 
this and may not be able to speak freely with the PCs, result 
ing in some stilted conversation and confusion.) The Zhen 
tilar have been given some "time off without pay" and some 
prison rations for brawling in the Singing Dryad. 

If the PCs communicate through the small window in 
Lanseril's cell, the Zhents cannot hear the conversation, but 
they report such activity to the Banite priests as soon as possi 
ble. As a result, 10 slaves (possibly including one or more of 
the PCs) are brought before the window and given five lashes, 
to the conspicuous delight of Glorganna, who repeatedly and 
loudly announces that it is done because of the spies who 
spoke with Lanseril Snowmantle. Each lash inflicts ld3-l 
points of damage (minimum 1 point of damage). 

If the party never attempts to contact Lanseril, even with 
prompting from NPCs, they can be assigned to bring him his 
meager rations twice per day. 

Once the PCs prove that they are agents of Lord Mourn- 
grym (by showing Lanseril the Harper's pin), the druid relays 
the following information. (If the PCs have been brought to 
Lanseril by Lawrence, it will be necessary to alter the second- 
to-last paragraph slightly.) 


"Snowmantle is in dire need," whispers Lanseril with a 
quick glance around for prying ears. "A fair number of 
Zhentilar troops have returned to the Citadel of the 
Raven, yet there are still enough here to repel the small 
force of forest creatures I've assembled. No matter how 
deep my hatred of the Zhents, I cannot allow my friends 
to fruitlessly perish by their cursed blades. 

"But now there is an alternative, since you have come. 


18 






















































"Deep within the heart of Border Forest is a group of 
elves called the Lost. I have never actually met them, but 
my father was a member of their tribe. I have always 
believed that the Lost still watch over us, through the eyes 
and ears of the forest, and now, beyond all hope, my badger 
friend Lawrence has told me that the Lost have spoken to 
him, and that they wish to speak with me regarding the 
coming of the Zhentilar. Since I cannot leave Snowmantle 
without dire consequences, this duty must fall to you. 

"If you do not already know, Lawrence has been living 
underneath the wine factory where Willard Gooseford 
works since the coming of the Zhents. Seek him there, and 
he will lead you deep into the forest to find the Lost. 

"The Harpers and my fellow Knights of Myth Drannor 
appear to be too busy to help," Lanseril concludes mourn 
fully. "You may be Snowmantle's last hope. You had best go 
now, before a guard spots you. May Sylvanus guide your 
way!" 


Lanseril has no time to answer any questions the PCs may have, 
as several guards make a sudden appearance to disrupt whatever sit 
uation allowed the PCs to speak with the druid. If the PCs stay any 
longer, they are arrested by a dozen Zhentilar guards and a Banite 
priest. It is folly for the PCs not to leave when Lanseril asks them. 

Esc&p) Mg 
SwocumaMTl-e 

T here are several ways for the PCs to escape the confines of 
Snowmantle and travel deep into the forest in search of 
the Lost. It is more difficult if the party has been enslaved, but 
not impossible. After the third day in Snowmantle, whether 
they are slaves or employees, the PCs are assigned to work in the 
forest, at the location of the current tree harvest. This is an 
opportune moment for the party to break for the heart of the 
forest, the location of the Lost. 

Though it is not necessary, the PCs will have better success 
at finding the Lost with the help of Lawrence the Badger. He 
can take the party directly to an area where they will be con 
fronted by the elves. Note that this is not actually their home; 
despite the fact that the elves wish to help drive the Zhents from 
the Border Forest, they are not yet willing to announce to the 
world their sacred abode. 

If the PCs do not have the help of Lawrence, they will come 
upon the Lost on a roll of 1 on ldlO, made once per hour. Every 
two hours, the chance of finding the elves increases by 1 (2 in 
10 chance after three hours, 3 in 10 chance after five hours, and 
so on). Also increase the chance by 1 if there is a ranger or druid 


in the party, and increase the chance by 2 if someone uses a 
speak with animals spell to aid in the search. 

The Lost have no reason to recognize the fact that the 
adventurers are looking for them, so the PCs only glimpse the 
elves when the dice finally indicate success. Thereafter, the 
heroes continue to catch glimpses of eyes behind foliage and 
shifting branches, and they hear the occasional rustle of leaves, 
but cannot catch the elves. The adventurers should be given the 
impression that they are surrounded by invisible creatures who 
shadow their every move, yet slip away when approached. This 
continues until they call loudly to the Lost, identifying them 
selves as friends of Lanseril or otherwise stating their mission. 
There is a 10% chance that shouting draws the attention of a 
Zhentilar patrol. 

Zhentilar Soldiers, hm & hf F4 (ld4+2): THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 (short sword); AC 7 (ring mail); hp 
24 each; MV 6 (moderately encumbered); SZ M; INT 
Avg; AL LE (23)/CE (7); ML 11; XP 175. 

Personality: Military, obedient. 

The Lost 

C enturies ago, what is now known as the Border Forest was 
a part of the greater forest of Cormanthor. After years of 
logging operations along the Tesh River Valley, however, that 
tract of woods became separated from the rest of the elvish 
woodlands. Accordingly, the wood elves who live in the Border 
Forest were isolated from their brethren, and they retreated ever 
deeper into the woods and hid themselves from all other races. 
With the rise in power of Zhentil Keep, the elves cut off all con 
tact with the outside world, and they have not been seen in 
years. Hence, they came to be known as the Lost. 

However, one of the few members of the Lost to have any 
contact with humans was Raunaeril the Rose, Lanseril's father. 
Lanseril Snowmantle is the first and only half-elf whose veins 
run with the blood of the Lost. 

CowffcowDwg the Lost 

When the PCs finally call out to members of the Lost, read the 
party the following boxed text. 


From out of nowhere, a green-feathered arrow embeds itself 
in the ground at your feet. The forest abruptly comes alive 
with elves dressed in the colors of nature, who step out from 
their cover and aim their many bows at you. Their sudden 
appearance, and the sheer number of them, stuns you for a 
moment. The silence becomes almost palpable, as none of 
them moves or speaks after appearing. 



19 

















Finally, one of the elves steps forth and proclaims, "We 
are called the Lost, to whom you have been calling most 
rudely. What is your business here?" 


If the party members peacefully explain the reason for their 
presence in the forest (to save Snowmantle and the forest), 
the elves lower their bows and the speaker asks their names. If 
Lawrence the badger is with the party, an elderly elf emerges 
from the trees and speaks with him, in a strange language that 
only a druid would understand. Lawrence confirms that the 
party is here because Lanseril cannot leave Snowmantle, for 
fear of innocent deaths. After either speaking with Lawrence 
or listening to the PCs' explanation for traveling this deep 
into Border Forest, read the following. 


"It is unfortunate that the half-breed could not seek us in 
person," says the aged elf, "as this may have been his last 
chance to ask the questions I know he has. Besides, we 
had something for him. It was not our intention to show 
ourselves to anyone other than our own kind, though he 
is not a true green elf. 


"However," continues the elder, "the situation in the vil 
lage called Snowmantle demands immediate attention. 

We judge that you must destroy the Zhents, or drive 
them from the Border Forest. We will not leave the depths 
of the forest, ourselves, yet we cannot allow the destruction 
of our home to continue. 

"I am of a mind to take a great chance and entrust an 
ancient secret to you, which will drive out the Zhents. 
But before I do so, I would hear one reason why I should 
give it to you" 


The ancient elf is Tanseril, Lanseril's grandfather and keeper of 
the knowledge of the Lost. Tanseril is testing the sincerity of the 
party: They must make an honorable plea for help from the elves. 
If the any of the PCs are rude or ill-mannered to Tanseril, the 
elves murmur angrily, raise their bows, and draw back the strings 
in a threatening gesture. If the party thinks it can fight its way free 
of these people, it is mortally mistaken. A two-to-one ratio of 
elves engages the PCs in melee battle to provide escape for 
Tanseril, then flees into the forest as soon as possible. Meanwhile, 
Id4xl0 arrows fire from the surrounding foliage per round and 
continue to do so until the PCs throw down their weapons and 
beg for mercy, or until they are all slain. Attempts to root out and 
engage the Lost in battle meet with failure, as they slip through 
the trees with a facility that would amaze a druid. (Use standard 
Monstrous Manuals(tm) statistics for the elves, arming them 
with long bows and long swords.) Needless to say, it is definitely in 
the best interests of the party to respect the Lost, for without their 
help there is little chance of purging the forest of the Zhent forces, 
let alone surviving the elves' wrath. 

Assuming the PCs speak fairly and nobly, read the following 
boxed text. 


"Long ago," explains Tanseril, "we chose the Border Forest 
as a home instead of wondrous Evermeet, and we brought 
with us many ancient secrets. I have a scroll containing an 
archaic and potent spell, developed by the elves of the for 
est to protect their homes. This scroll I give to you. Read it 
in the heart of Snowmantle, loud and clear. Then, I charge, 
you must run for your lives, else you may be destroyed! 

"Go now, for each moment the Zhents remain in our 
forest, they inflict yet more harm." 

Then, as quickly as they appeared, the Lost dissolve into 
the depths of the forest. 


The scroll is a summon nature elemental spell (see the "New 
Spells" appendix of the Campaign Guide) that has been specially 
written so that it may be read by a cleric, a druid, or a ranger of 




20 




























5th level or higher without risking failure-anyone else looking 
at the scroll will be unable to read it. At the DM's option, a per 
centage chance of spell failure can be applied to the scenario, 
but the DM should be prepared to deal with a rather high likeli 
hood that the spell will fail. (The scroll has been written by a 
20th-level priest; see the "Scroll" section of the DMG.) 

The nature elemental (see the Monstrous Compendium 
booklet in this boxed set) is a destructive force of pure nature 
that will obliterate Snowmantle and the Zhent operation. In 
short, over a time span of 24 hours, everything within 1 mile of 
the village will be destroyed and "reformed," allowing nature to 
once again reclaim the forest from its desecrators. The character 
who reads the scroll cannot determine the exact effects, but she 
or he can tell that it releases an incredibly destructive force in 
the form of an elemental. 

If the character who can read the scroll peruses it before 
actually reading it, allow him or her an Intelligence check. If it 
succeeds, she or he comprehends that a "certain number" of 
people may be designated by the caster to be ignored by the ele 
mental when it arrives. The exact number (up to 200 people in 
this case) is not specified. Thus, the reader can potentially pro 
tect virtually all non-Zhents in Snowmantle, if she or he has the 
foresight and inclination to include them among the designated 
creatures to be ignored by the elemental. 

ReTuRN))N)g 

To ShJocumAwTLe 

efore reading the scroll, the PCs would be wise consider 
the consequences of doing so. If slaves are present when 
the scroll is read, but not indicated by the reader to be ignored, 
only about half of them can escape the ravaging elemental. 
Lanseril and anyone else in jail may be trapped and killed as 
well. The same applies for any Zhents present, of course, but a 
number of survivors will flee the Border Forest, only to face the 
wrath of their supervisors far from the destruction. The party 
may face isolated pockets of Zhents upon their retreat, and the 
DM can use the statistics given for groups of them in this adven 
ture to make sure the party flees back toward Shadowdale. 

The DM must also take into consideration how the PCs are 
going to get to the center of town unchallenged to read the 
scroll. Technically, they can read the scroll on the outskirts of 
the village, but this will give more Zhents a chance to escape 
unharmed (about 75% of them). 

If the PCs have had a fairly easy time up to this point, make it 
extremely difficult for them to return to Snowmantle and read the 
scroll. A search party of three Zhentarim mages, two priests of 
Bane, and a half-dozen Zhentilar can ambush them on their way 
back to Snowmantle. Without the aid of Lawrence the badger, the 


party may also get lost in the forest, further delaying its return to 
the village (though the use of direction sense avoids this problem). 

Rea£>)Njg 
The ScroLL 

I f none of the party can read the scroll, then it will have to 
be given to Lanseril, which may result in an additional 
adventure episode. (Note that Lanseril, given a free round, will 
look over the scroll, understand its contents, and protect every 
non-Zhent he can see from the elemental before unleashing it.) 
The PCs need to infiltrate the camp-heavily guarded now-to 
get to the druid, tell him what they have brought, then protect 
him while he reads the scroll in the center of the village. 

As soon as the scroll is read, read the following. 


The ancient parchment crumbles to dust upon reading it, 
and a deathly silence falls over the forest. A moment later, 
the ground begins to rumble beneath your feet, making you 
long for something steady to hold on to. A sudden crack 
jars the earth below you, sending you sprawling. The ground 
heaves up nearby, thrusting a small clump of trees from its 
crust, and vegetation all around you seems to crawl along 
the ground with you, helpless in the earthquake. 

At last the trembling subsides, but the land seems fragile 
now, as if it might crumble under the weight of a halfling. 
Then, as if to confirm your suspicion, the ground before you 
begins to chum and break apart! It rises in a mound and 
then explodes, sending dirt in all directions, opening a large 
crater. As the rain of earth and pebbles subsides, a massive 
creature similar to an earth elemental-only much larger- 
rises from the hole and looses a howl that freezes your blood. 

Perhaps this would be a good time to vacate the area. . . . 


It is, indeed, time to depart Snowmantle for safer regions. 
Although the elemental does not attack those who have been 
indicated by the reader, it will topple buildings indiscriminately. 
Those who are within range of falling structures risk a 25% 
chance of being crushed for 2d 10 points of damage (save vs. par- 
alyzation to leap free). 

Meanwhile, the Zhents endeavor to defeat the nature ele 
mental with sword and spell, but fail horribly in the attempt. If 
there has been no prior warning to the slaves regarding the com 
ing of this destructive force, or any plan of evacuation, or pro 
tection from the scroll's magic by the reader, many of them die 
in the creature's ruinous path. All of the major NPCs should 
escape the devastation, however, helping some of the slaves 
along the way. The most likely exception to this would be 













A nature elemental restores Snowmantle to its "natural " state. 


Lanseril, who might not realize what is happening until the 
prison collapses around him. 

As the party departs the scene, presumably heading for 
Shadowdale to report to Mourngrym, a dozen Zhentilar (led by 
Ragnoth or Glorganna if needed to make it a good battle) con 
front them once they reach a safe distance. Despite any apparent 
luck of the PCs, the finale of the adventure should not be with 
out conflict of some sort. If the party has been the "casual" hero 
in this adventure, make them earn a victory by defeating the 
leaders of Snowmantle's overthrow. If the PCs have won, but at 
terrible costs, let them escape the final fray largely unscathed. 

CowduslOK) 

I f the party successfully releases the nature elemental in 
Snowmantle, the creature reduces the village and all of the 
Zhent equipment to tinder, thoroughly erasing it from the face 
of the Realms-thus, Snowmantle will have to be rebuilt. 
Lanseril (if he survives), Willard, Juliana, and Walter all return 
to Snowmantle after they have recuperated for a month in 
Shadowdale and rebuild the village. Any of the PCs that wish to 
return with them and make a home for themselves in the com 


munity are more than welcome to do so. 

Lord Mourngrym is true to his word, and rewards the PCs 
with either 1,000 gold pieces or a place among the Harpers if 
they were successful in defeating the Zhents. Each surviving 
character also nets 5,000 experience points for the adventure, 
and 7,000 if none of the slaves were killed by the nature elemen 
tal. Also, award the characters additional experience for good 
role-playing and problem solving-for a total of no more than 
1,000 additional experience points. 

On the other hand, subtract 1,000 experience points from 
the final total if any of the major NPCs were killed by the PCs' 
action or inaction, and subtract 2,000 experience points if they 
left Lanseril in prison, to die under the claws of the elemental. 

If the PCs have been at least moderately successful, they may 
be able to find additional commissions from Lord Mourngrym in 
the future. The Lord of Shadowdale could even send the PCs 
into the next adventure, "Sinister Conviction," which is set 
shortly after the Banedeath of 1361 DR. Since there is at least a 
three-year gap between the time period this adventure is set in 
(circa 1357-58 DR) and the given time setting of the next one, 
DMs may need to slightly modify the next adventure to take a 
party into it directly following "Felled Hopes." 

































S)N)sTeR 
Comv)cTIom 


77ie most cruel and vicious of all High Imperceptors of Bane was, without a doubt, Stallac Benadi. 
Crowned 
first High Imperceptor by an avatar of the god of strife in the Year of the Black Fist (800 DR), Stallac's 
name 
is closely connected to the rise of the church of Bane in the Realms. Imperceptor Stallac was a true 
disciple of 
the god of strife, spreading hatred and tyranny wherever his voice was heard. 

After serving as High Imperceptor for over 40 years, Stallac Benadi disappeared. Many believe him to 
have passed on to another plane of existence, but I say he still exists. Even now Cyric seeks to slay 
Banites 
that flock to Stallac's banner, and of late the name of Benadi is whispered in shadows once more. 

The new god of death has much to fear, should Stallac Benadi abandon his centuries-long slumber and 
walk the Realms again. 

-Zobreen Hajael, Scribe to High Blade Selfaril Uoumdolphin of Mulmaster 


S his is the second of three adventures featuring the villains of Zhentil Keep and 
the followers of Bane. This adventure is designed for five to seven characters at 
the 5th to 9th level of experience. It is recommended that the party have at 
least one cleric of good or neutral alignment who can turn undead as well as a 
good balance of mages, fighters, and possibly a thief to fill out the party. Paladins 
who have a difficult time restraining their noble zeal are bound to draw a great deal of unwanted 
attention in Zhentil Keep, as are any good characters who wear their alignments on their sleeves. 

This scenario takes place either during or shortly after the Banedeath that swept across Zhentil 
Keep, three years after the ascension of Cyric of the Dark Sun. Since the underground war featured 
in this adventure could be considered interminable without heroic intervention, it is conceivable 
that it could be placed later in the history of Zhentil Keep, or even after the Keep's destruction. DMs 
using this adventure as a post- Prince of Lies scenario must alter the beginning of the adventure to 
reflect the city's annihilation. 

STorv BAdkgnouKtb 

F ive centuries ago in 844 DR, Stallac Benadi reached a level of power beyond anything Banites 
had previously achieved, and he was commanded by the god of strife to enter self-imposed 
exile deep beneath the city known as Zhentil Keep. There, he was commanded by Bane to create an 
empire of hatred and strife that would one day ascend to the surface of Faerun, elevating the worship 
of Bane beyond anything previously achieved. Stallac and a handful of trusted followers began creat 
ing a vast underground empire beneath the Keep. 

Even though he extended his life for over 160 years through the use of potions of longevity after his 
descent below the Keep, time still was not on the Imperceptor's side-slowly but surely his life was 
slipping away. In fear of death, Stallac petitioned Lord Bane for aid, and his prayer was answered: 
The god turned him into a Banelich of tremendous power (see the Monstrous Compendium 
booklet included in this boxed set). So powerful was Stallac's new form that he could cast any priest 
spell (from any spell sphere) without need of divine assistance; in essence, he became a minor 
demipower in the Realms. Thus, in his lair beneath Zhentil Keep, he quietly amassed power for the 
next three centuries. 

Over those same 300 years, numerous powerful wizards also achieved lichdom and sought lairs 
beneath the Keep. Several of them confronted Stallac and attempted to drive him from their city, 
but they were destroyed by his might. In the end, the lich-mages were forced to content themselves 



















with building domains around the underground empire of 
Stallac and his forces of Bane, for they had come to fear the 
wrath of the Banelich. Centuries passed and the lich-priest's 
forces grew, patiently awaiting the time when their Lord would 
call them forth to do His bidding. 

Then, in the Year of the Harp (1355 DR), Stallac received a 
vision from the god of strife telling him to prepare, for the time 
when the Realms would bow before Bane was coming. But then 
befell the Time of Troubles, and the schemes of the god of strife 
and the god of the dead did nor go off as planned, and Lord Ao 
forced them to walk the Realms until the Tablets of Fate were 
returned. During the battles that would follow, the god of strife 
was destroyed, and Cyric the Dark Sun took his place. 

Soon after usurping Bane's mantle, Cyric came to Stallac, 
seeking his adoration and support in the conquest of Zhentil 
Keep and the rest of the Moonsea. Stallac spumed Cyric. Cyric's 
anger at this rejection was great, but the Banelich's empire had 
risen to a phenomenal level of power and Cyric did not wish to 
waste the considerable strength required to destroy Stallac. 
Therefore, he empowered one of his lowly converts, one 
Chrinson Navham, instead. 

Chrinson was an acolyte of Bane when the Time of Troubles 
ended, and he was one of the first to embrace Cyric. After 
Stallac's refusal of Cyric's offer, the new god of the dead took 
Chrinson into his fold and turned him into a more powerful ver 
sion of a blazing bones, with great clerical ability, called a burn- 
bones (see the Monstrous Compendium booklet). Chrinson 
of the Blazing Sun (as he was now called) was given his own 
army of undead and commanded to bring Stallac to his knees. 

Even as the citizens of Zhentil Keep sleep each night, power 
ful forces are grappling to see who is mightier-Stallac of Bane 
or Chrinson of Cyric. One fights for his belief in a supposedly 
dead master while the other strives for the respect of a deity who 
wants nothing less than total dominance over all! 

NPC Capsul.es 

STaLLac BehJddi 

Banelich, 19th-level Cleric of Bane 

THACO 5; #AT 1; Dmg ldlO 
(cold touch+possible hopeless 
ness), 3d 10 (coldfire missiles); 

AC 0; hp 89; MV 9; SA Priest 
spells, hopelessness touch; cold- 
fire missiles; painwrack, voice 
of maleficence, grasp of death 
- see the Monstrous 
Compendium booklet; SD +2 
magical weapon needed to hit; 
fear aura; immune to lst-level 


illusions; immune to poison, charm, sleep, enfeeblement, poly 
morph, cold, electricity, insanity, and death spells and spell 
types, immune to magic missile damage (brooch of shielding); unaf 
fected by sunlight; SW Holy water from lawful good temple of 
Lathander does Id 10 points of damage, and all other holy water 
cause only ld6 points of damage; MR 25%; SZ M (6' tall); INT 
Supra; AL LE; ML 20; XP 10,000; MI Mace of darkness (see the 
"Magical Items" appendix in the Campaign Book), ring of blink 
ing, rod of smiting, brooch of shielding (81 points of magic missile 
damage left to absorb). 

S 14, D 13, C 16, I 19, W 19, Ch 3. 

Personality: Inhuman, deceptive, shrewd. 

Spells (12/11/10/9/6/4/2) (normally taken): 1st: Cause light 
wounds (x3), command (x3), detect good, invisibility to undead 
(x2), light, protection from good (x2); 2nd: Aid, charm person (x2), 
fire trap, heat metal, hold person (x3), know alignment, resist fire, 
silence 15' radius; 3rd: Animate dead (x5), cause blindness, cause 
disease, curse (reverse of remove curse), dispel magic, paralysis 
(reverse of remove paralysis); 4th: Cause serious wounds (x2), lie 
(reverse of detect lie), poison (reverse of neutralize poison), protec 
tion from good 15' radius, protection from lightning, reflecting pool, 
spell immunity, tongues; 5th: Dark promise* ( x 2), dispel good, flame 
strike, slay living (reverse of raise dead), wall of fire; 6th: Blade bar 
rier, conjure fire elemental, harm (reverse of heal), word of recall; 
7th: Energy drain (reverse of restoration), annihilation (reverse of 
resurrection). 

* See the "New Spells" appendix in the Campaign Book. 

MaLaJcar 

Human Male, 12th-level Fighter 

THACO 8/7, 7 Albruin*; 
#AT 2/1 ; Dmg 2d4 + 4 
(Albruin*); AC -2 (plate 
mail +1, shield +1, Dex) or 
AC -4 (plate mail +1, shield 
+1 , Dex, boots of speed); hp 
92; MV 12 (24 when using 
boots of speed); SZ M (6' 
tall); AL CN(E); ML 14; 
XP 5,000; MI Albruin*, 
amulet of infravision, boots of 
speed. 

*Albruin is described in the "Magical Items" appendix in the Cam 
paign Book. Briefly, it is +1/+3, glows blue in a 10-foot-diameter sphere 
when drawn, speaks common, elvish, drow, and thieves' cant, reads lan 
guages and magical writings, detects invisible objects in a 10-foot-radius when 
drawn and the bearer is concentrating, neutralizes poison 1 time per 3 
days, heals its bearer 1 time per 12 days, is CN, has in Intelligence of 17 
and an Ego of 13. 

S 17, D 17, C 16, I 15, W 11, Ch 12. 

Personality: Vicious, cautious, merciless. 





24 





















Malakar is Stallac's agent in Zhentil Keep, as the Banelich 
feels it is important to monitor the goings on above his domain. 
Until the splitting of the church of Bane by the orthodox 
Banites and the forces of Fzoul, Stallac recruited priests of Bane. 
Following the treachery of Nrist (see the Starting the Adventure 
section, below), Stallac resorted to hiring men like Malakar, 
who loyally comply with his orders (for the right price) without 
a hidden agenda. 

Though content with his work for Stallac beneath the city, 
Malakar often feels the need to return to the surface for the 
company of other mortals, a warm bed, and a hot meal. He often 
stays at The Shield Faces North tavern, in the Harbor District, 
for one or two days every other week. Unless the DM wishes the 
party to stay in Zhentil Keep for an extended time while waiting 
for Malakar, he could be at The Shield Faces North on the day 
the party arrives in the city. Otherwise, they must wait until he 
emerges from the underground for a hot meal. 

OirInson of the Bldzibjg Sun 

Burnbones, 12-level Priest of Cyric 

THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 
2d 10 (touch); AC 3; HD 
12; hp 62; MV 12; SA 
Searing touch, heat aura, 
priest spells, can cast and 
attack simultaneously; SD 
+2 or better weapon needed 
to hit, immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, death, poison, 
fire, and paralyzation, quar 
ter damage from cold, half 
damage from slashing and 
piercing weapons, turned only by lawful good priests; MR 40%; 
SZ M; INT High (insane); AL NE; ML 17; XP 12,000. 
Personality: Deceitful, insane, aggressive. 

Spells (6/5/5/3/2Z2): 1st: Command (x2), cause light wounds, 
detect good, light, cause fear (reverse of remove fear); 2nd: Charm 
person, flame blade, hold person, obscurement, silence 15' radius; 
3rd: Animate dead (x2), dispel magic, curse (reverse of remove 
curse), paralysis (reverse of remove paralysis); 4th: Lie (reverse of 
detect lie), protection from good 10' radius, poison (reverse of neu 
tralize poison); 5th: Cause critical wounds, slay living (reverse of 
raise dead); 6th: Conjure fire elemental, word of recall. 

STAKOwg 

the A dv&bfCuK& 

T he adventure begins in Zhentil Keep, and it is up to the 
DM to determine just how the PCs arrive there, how they 


enter the city, and where they stay. As far as getting them 
involved in the underground war, the DM can either choose 
from the following plot suggestions or create a scenario appropri 
ate to his or her individual campaign world. 

• The party is commissioned by a wealthy, unnamed Cormyte 
to seek out a magical broad sword called Albruin, which was 
recently spotted in the hands of a ex-Zhentilar soldier in 
Zhentil Keep. The man's name is Malakar, and he is a former 
mercenary general who disappeared many years ago and then 
re-emerged with Albruin on his belt. 

The PCs are to travel to Zhentil Keep, find Malakar, and 
attempt to buy the sword from him. If he agrees to sell it, a 
Cormyte agent will supply Malakar with the money, and the 
PCs will need to bring the sword to Suzail. If he refuses to sell 
the sword . . . well, it is the PCs' job to make sure he sells it. 

If and when the party attempts to buy Albruin from him, 
Malakar refuses them outright and asks to be left alone. If the 
party persists, he threatens to call the city guards, stating that 
he is an ex-Zhentilar with many friends. He will not be the 
first to draw a weapon in combat, and he will have the support 
of other tavern patrons (all are fighters of 2nd-5th level) in 
any confrontation. (PCs who are thrown into the Detention 
Center across from High Hall may have to begin the adven 
ture by escaping from the dungeon-they will enter the com 
plex at area 21 on the Sinister Conviction color map.) 

Malakar can easily be followed to a section of the sewers 
that lead to Stallac's realm (to area 1 on the Sinister 
Conviction color map) after leaving The Shield Faces North. 
Since only fools dare to travel into the sewers of Zhentil 
Keep, Malakar cares not who follows him and makes no 
effort to conceal his trail. (Besides, he wears boots of speed and 
can easily outrace any pursuer.) Since Malakar is to be 
encountered later in the adventure, the only purpose here is 
to lead the PCs to the underground cavern to start the 
adventure. The broad sword Albruin is detailed the "Magical 
Items" appendix of the Campaign Book. 

Real Story: Albruin is a powerful sword stolen from the 
Cormyrean palace at Suzail 100 years ago. It is an heirloom of 
the royal house, and the Crown is willing to pay handsomely 
for its return. The sword is intelligent, but its alignment con 
flicts with that of the present ruling house. The unnamed 
Cormyte who hired the party is none other than Vangerdahast 
himself. His agents in Zhentil Keep spotted the sword and 
reported its appearance to the royal mage. Unknown to 
Vangerdahast, Malakar is an agent of Stallac Benadi. 

• The party finds a treasure map leading to the underground 
complex beneath Zhentil Keep. All information regarding 
the map seems to check out (landmarks and such), and its 

















authenticity seems genuine. A caption at the bottom of the 
map speaks of gold, powerful magic, and "the greatest trea 
sure of Zhentil Keep." 

Real Story: The map was drawn a century ago by a cleric 
of Bane named Nrist, who was a servant of Stallac that 
Stallac used as a spy on the surface of Zhentil Keep. Shortly 
before his death (at the hands of Stallac), Nrist drew the 
map. He was going to travel to Mulmaster to present the map 
to the current High Imperceptor in an attempt to gain his 
favor. (The Imperceptor did not know of Stallac's existence.) 
Nrist was slain for his treachery and the map disappeared 
from sight, somehow falling into the hands of the PCs. (The 
way the party finds the map is left to the DM). Nrist consid 
ered Stallac to be "the greatest treasure of Zhentil Keep." 
The map leads the PCs to area 1 on the Sinister Conviction 
color map, but it does not detail the rest of Stallac's under 
ground lair. 

An unusual number of people have gone missing throughout 
the Keep, including some prominent merchants and their 
families. For the first time in hundreds of years, Zhents are 
once again whispering heatedly of the Night Plague. This 
time, however, Zhentilar troops were sent into the sewers to 
investigate, never to return. The party can begin the adven 
ture by being hired to discover why the Night Plague has 
returned, or they themselves might be kidnapped and taken 
below, or they might be hired to find a missing Zhent noble. 

Real Story: The war between Stallac and Chrinson has 
been costly for both sides. As a result, both forces have 
resorted to kidnapping citizens of the city and transforming 
them into undead creatures. The abductions are carried out 
by nine wights who serve Malakar, and by two ju-ju zombies 
and two ghouls who work for Stallac. 

On the side of Cyric, there is also a cleric by the name of 
Goris, who obtains victims for the war through either the 
Arena, friends at the church of Loviatar, or one of the Dark 
God's temples. However, this supply is wearing thin, and 
Goris and several other priests of Cyric have taken to wan 
dering the streets of the Common Quarter at night, looking 
for potential victims. 

Both forces seek prey on the surface one to three times a 
week, depending on the severity of the conflicts below. 

The PCs are captured by either the forces of Cyric or the 
Zhentilar, and they escape into the sewers beneath the city. 
The labyrinth of passageways and tunnels lands the PCs in 
the middle of the underground war. 

Real Story: If the PCs are lost beneath the keep without 
any equipment, they are in deep trouble. If the PCs are at the 
lower end of the 5th- to 9th-level scale for this adventure, 


perhaps they can come across the remains of others who have 
died in the sewers, leaving behind leather armor or a few 
rusted weapons. On the other hand, if the PCs are fairly pow 
erful, handling a few undead with nothing more than a bro 
ken dagger is a quite respectable challenge. (DMs may want 
to remind clerics of the existence of the create holy symbol 
spell, found in the Tome of Magic.) 

Plots 

Atod Subplots 

In addition to being a dungeon-crawl adventure, "Sinister 
Convictions" details several schemes and plots orchestrated by 
the evil NPCs on both sides of this unholy war. In an effort to 
give the adventure a flavor other than simple hack-and-slash, 
the DM can use the following plot devices to add to the playa 
bility of the dungeon. The DM is also encouraged to add other 
intricacies from his or her own campaign, as long as they do not 
unbalance or otherwise impose an undesirable effect on the out 
come of the scenario. 

D eddy's UTfl-e G)izl 

Somewhere deep within the dungeon (possibly area 3 or 14), 
the party finds a lost teenage girl of 14 years named Frel Drillysa 
(0-level human female, 4 hp). Frel was out late one evening 
and, while trying to evade a pursuing press gang, fell down an 
open sewer grate and became lost. Somehow she ended up in 
this section of the dungeon, with no idea of how to get home. 

Frel is the daughter of a Zhentarim mage (whose profession 
remains unknown to her) who is frantically looking for his little 
girl. Because she is in Stallac's domain, any attempts to scry for 
her have been negated. The mage will pay the PCs 2,000 gold 
pieces each for the safe return of his daughter, and he will fur 
ther offer them jobs if they wish to make a lot of money. 
(Without knowing it, the PCs could possibly find themselves 
working for the Black Network, should they survive the adven 
ture.) Even if they do not decide to take work from him, the 
PCs could still call in a big favor later from what would, in all 
likelihood, normally be an opponent diametrically opposed to 
them. 

Awc)ewT Ruwes 

Unknown to Stallac, his zombie excavation crews have 
unearthed a few ancient runic artifacts of one of the many lost 
empires that litter the surface of Faerun. These carvings can be 
found in random sections of the dungeon (DM's discretion, but 
nowhere near Stallac's lair), but they cannot be removed from 
the area without risking their destruction. (For example, they 
are carved on a cave wall or natural rock outcropping.) If the 











symbols are copied and shown to a scribe or sage, he will offer 
the party a sum of 1,000 gold pieces to protect him and guide 
him to the runes so he may study them, regardless of the danger. 
The gold will be paid only upon his safe return to the surface, 
ensuring that the party does not leave him to his death. 

The runes themselves are extremely difficult for any PC 
(including those with the ancient languages proficiency) to 
comprehend or translate, and indeed only a respectable sage has 
any chance to decipher them. If enough of the runes (those in 
more than one location) are studied, they tell the story of an 
ancient, unnamed culture that used to inhabit this region. 
Possible locations for the runes are areas 14, 19, and 26. 

Diabolical OffeR 

An agent of Stallac, possibly Malakar (if the PCs are not look 
ing for his sword) or some form of intelligent undead, appears 
before the PCs after they have destroyed some of the minions of 
the Banelich. Stallac offers them whatever has brought them to 
his domain (such as gold, gems, magic, or even Albruin) if they 
agree to kill Chrinson of the Blazing Bones. Despite his evil 
nature, Stallac is offering the deal in good faith and will reward 
the PCs for their efforts. Of course, he attempts to pervert the 
bargain in any way possible (similar to the wording of a wish 
spell), and will seek to ensure that the PCs never return to his 
realm or tell anyone about him with a dark promise spell (see the 
"New Spells" appendix in the Campaign Guide). Stallac will not 
make his offer official until he knows the spell is in place. This 
plot device should be used only when the party is close to the 
heart of Stallac's domain, such as in areas 35 or 49. 

A Losifog BaTTLc 

The forces of Chrinson of the Blazing Sun are not doing as well 
as hoped against Stallac Benadi, and it seems they will soon fall 
before the Banelich. Once the party has confronted some of 
Chrinson's minions, a frightened acolyte of Cyric, named 
Crimm (LE hm Cl), offers the party up to 2,000 gold pieces 
each for their assistance. He tells them of the lich-priest of Bane, 
"one of the greatest evils of the Heartlands" (this is true), and 
that his misunderstood master is attempting to eradicate the foul 
Banelich. This could be so much easier with the PCs' help. 

The challenge for the party here is that Crimm is telling the 
truth, or at least what he believes to be the truth. Although he 
can pay the party as much as 300 gold pieces in advance, Crimm 
promises that the rest will be delivered after the task is complet 
ed. Since this is what Chrinson told him, Crimm thinks it is the 
truth, and spells such as detect lie indicate no deception. Of 
course, Chrinson has no intention of following through on the 
deal, and if the party comes looking for a reward, they will face a 
large contingent of undead-and possibly Chrinson himself. 

If Crimm's offer is accepted in good faith, he tells the party of 


the section of Stallac's domain that contains his phylactery, and 
that they must destroy that life-force receptacle. Once it is bro 
ken, Stallac will be destroyed and the Realms will be a safer 
place in which to live. The section of the dungeon containing 
the phylactery is deep within Stallac's territory (see area 52), 
and it cannot be approached by undead (for they would fall 
under Stallac's control). Once again, Crimm truly believes his 
master will fulfill his part of the bargain; he has yet to realize 
that agents of Cyric seldom keep their word. 

The 

CoMfDcT So Far 

T he battle between the two factions is going against 
Chrinson and the forces of Cyric. Early in the contest, 
both factions were evenly matched due to direct help from Cyric 
himself. However, the new god's short attention span (not to 
mention his apparent insanity) has drawn his notice to other 
diabolical designs, leaving Chrinson limited resources with 
which to win the battle. 

Stallac's power and relative status among the undead give 
him a clear advantage over the burnbones. However, Chrinson 
has greater resources within Zhentil Keep itself, though they fall 
short of the former Imperceptor's overall power base. In the end, 
Stallac will be victorious; it is just a question of when. 

Then there is the unknown factor stemming from the PCs' 
involvement in the conflict. It is possible, however unlikely, that 
the PCs may lower Stallac's power considerably. If this occurs, 
Chrinson orders an immediate attack on the Banelich in an 
attempt to either weaken him further or utterly destroy him. 

A victory for Stallac is still several years off, and a total victory 
will not occur during this adventure unless the PCs interfere in a 
crucial way. Unless the party seriously offends Stallac by attempt 
ing to kill him or destroy his realm (he cares little for his undead 
servants, as he can always make more), the Banelich will more 
than likely let them go, especially under certain circumstances 
(see "Diabolical Offer," above). Chrinson, on the other hand, has 
no reason to be generous to the party, but he makes every effort to 
accrue the PCs' favor, then sets about destroying them utterly. 

STaLIa c?$ Dooda)n) 

T he Banelich has had nearly 500 years to build his empire, 
so his caverns beneath Zhentil Keep are not only exten 
sive, but they are all the more impressive having been built by 
mere undead (though various humans and humanoids have 
helped over the years). The section of Stallac's lair occupied by 
Chrinson and his forces are largely natural caverns and areas 
that the Banelich's undead miners have only just begun to exca- 


27 













vate. Unless otherwise stated, there are no light sources, and all 
ceilings here are 15 feet in height. 

The Blessitogs of Bawe 

Over the years, Stallac has had a chance to empower portions of 
his domain with what he calls the blessings of Bane. These "bless 
ings" accomplish the following: 

• All attempts at scrying or divination magic, whether into or 
out of the complex, do not function. 

• The use of detect evil by any PC requires a successful saving 
throw vs. death magic to avoid becoming overwhelmed by 
the extreme concentration of evil in the complex and falling 
to the ground stunned and senseless for ldlO rounds. Anyone 
foolish enough to attempt a second casting automatically 
fails the save. 

• All priests, except those of Cyric, are cut off from their 
deities and cannot pray for and receive any spells above the 
2nd level unless they first bless their rest area or leave 
Stallac's domain. 

• Spells such as teleport, teleport without error, dimension door, 
plane shift, and various other spells and items that could 
transport the PCs to and from the Banelich's home do not 
function properly. Such spells malfunction whenever used. 
When this type of magic is employed, consult the following 
chart to determine the distance from their intended destina 
tion to which the travelers are "bounced." 

dlO dlO 


Roll 

Result 

Roll 

Result 

1 

ldlO yards north 

6 

5dl0 yards south 

2 

2d 10 yards east 

7 

IdlOO yards south 

3 

2d 10 yards south 

8 

Id 100 yards north 

4 

ldlO yards west 

9 

IdlOO yards west 

5 

3d 10 yards east 

10 

IdlOO yards east 

It is 

the DM's prerogative to 

decide 

whether teleporting PCs 


have a chance to materialize within solid rock. In this case, the 
PC must successfully save vs. breath weapon or appeal' within a 
solid object, resulting in instant death. 

The U\jderzgrzou\jd Complex 

Traveling through the sewers and caverns beneath Zhentil Keep 
is no small chore, as the passageways are crawling with ver 
minous creatures, malevolent predators, and undead not directly 
connected to the war. While the PCs remain outside the com 
plex, the DM should devise random encounters from these types 
of sewer inhabitants, suiting the types and numbers of creatures 
encountered to the PC party. DMs should roll for possible 
encounters once per turn. 


Once the PCs enter the complex, they are subject to variant 
random encounters that depend on which portion of the dungeon 
they are in, as determined on the table below. The western, exca 
vated section belongs to Stallac Benadi and the eastern, natural 
caves are under the control of Chrinson of the Blazing Sun. A roll 
of a 1 or 2 on ld6 each turn indicates an encounter. 

Random Encounters 

Stallac's Realm Chrinson's Realm 

IdS IdS 


Roll 

Result 

Roll 

Result 

1-2 

No encounter 

1-2 

No encounter 

3 

2d8+4 ju-ju zombies 

3 

2d8 zombies 

4 

2d8 ghouls 

4 

ld6 ju-ju zombies 

5 

ld8 ghasts 

5 

ld4 ghouls 

6 

ld6 wights 

6 

ld3 ghasts 

7 

ld4 wraiths 

7 

ld6 clerics of Cyric 

8 

ld2 ghosts 

8 

Chrinson 


Common Zombie: THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; AC 
8; HD 2; hp 11; MV 6; SD Immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; SZ M; INT 
Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

Ju-ju Zombie: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 6; 
HD 3+12; hp 25; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

Ghoul: THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg l-3/l-3/ld6; AC 6; 
HD 2; hp 11; MV 9; SA Paralyzing touch (2+ ld6 rounds); 
SD Immune to sleep and charm spells; SW Protection from 
evil keeps it at bay; SZ M; INT Low; AL CE; ML 12; XP 
175. 

Ghast: THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; AC 4; 
HD 4; hp 22; MV 15; SA 10'-radius stench requires suc 
cessful save vs. poison or suffer -2 attack penalty, paralyz 
ing touch affects even elves (4+ld6 rounds); SD Immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and 
paralyzation; SW Cold-iron weapons inflict double dam 
age; SZ M; INT Very; AL CE; ML 14; XP 650. 

Wight: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 4+3; 
hp 26; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver or 
+ 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; 
SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light; 
SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 


28 













Wraith: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; AC 4; HD 5+3; 
hp 36; MV 12, FI 24(B); SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by 
silver and +1 weapons (silver inflicts half damage), immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and 
paralyzation; SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of 
bright light, raise dead destroys (save vs. spell applies); SZ M; 
INT Very; AL LE; ML 15; XP 2,000. 

Ghost: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10d4 years; AC 
0 (ethereal) or 8 (material); HD 10; hp 55; MV 9; SA 
Humanoids save vs. spell to avoid flight for 2d6 rounds 
and aging 10d4 years (priests above 6th level immune, all 
characters above 8th level add +2 to the save), magic jar 
attack; SD Can be attacked when ethereal only by crea 
tures in ethereal state, 2d4 damage from holy water only in 
material form, immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold- 
based spells, poison, and paralyzation; SZ M; INT High; 

AL LE; ML 20; XP 7,000. 

Clerics of Cyric, hm & hf C4: THACO 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+ 1 (footman's mace); AC 6 (studded leather and 
shield); hp 17 each; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M; INT Avg; 

AL NE; ML 13; XP 270. 

Personality: Cruel, vicious, malevolent, distrustful. 

Spells (3/2): 1st: Detect evil, invisibility to undead, light; 
2nd: Obscurement, silence 15' radius. 

If fewer than four clerics of Cyric are encountered, there are 
2d6 zombies accompanying them. 

Chrinson of the Blazing Sun (Burnbones): THACO 
11; #AT 1; Dmg 2dl0 (touch); AC 3; HD 12; hp 62; MV 
12; SA Sealing touch, heat aura, priest spells, can cast and 
attack simultaneously; SD +2 or better weapon needed to 
hit, immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, poison, fire, and 
paralyzation, quarter damage from cold, half damage from 
slashing and piercing weapons, turned only by lawful good 
priests; MR 40%; SZ M; INT High (insane); AL NE; ML 
17; XP 12,000. 

Personality: Deceitful, insane, aggressive. 

Spells (6/5/5/3/2Z2): 1st: Command (x2), cause light 
wounds, detect good, light, cause fear (reverse of remove 
fear); 2nd: Charm person, flame blade, hold person, obscure 
ment, silence 15' radius; 3rd: Animate dead (x2), dispel 
magic, curse (reverse of remove curse), paralysis (reverse of 
remove paralysis); 4th: Lie (reverse of detect lie), protection 
from good 10' radius, poison (reverse of neutralize poison); 

5th: Cause critical wounds, slay living (reverse of raise dead); 

6th: Conjure fire elemental, word of recall. 

Disappointed by the way the war is going, Chrinson has decid 
ed to take matters into his own hands, so he now wanders his 


domain, looking for infiltrators and inspecting his troops. Fearing 
Stallac himself will take to the field if he directly interferes with 
the course of the war, Chrinson lets others lead the actual charges 
into Stallac's territory-at least until victory is at hand. 

ResT anj£> RecupenXViosi 

If the PC party is overtaxed by the volume of undead wandering 
the complex, the DM may wish to allow them a few safe zones 
in which to heal themselves and memorize spells. (Recall the 
restrictions imposed upon praying for priest spells in Stallac's 
domain-see section on The Blessings of Bane, above.) Ideally, 
the party should leave the area altogether, retreating to the sew 
ers, but one or two rest stops within the war zone may be possi 
ble, especially in areas 9, 15 (after defeating the mudmen), 19 
(after defeating the wight), and 47. 

Trzedsurze 

There is quite a bit of gold, magical items, and other treasure to be 
found in the complex. If the player characters are thorough enough, 
they could gamer enough of it to upset the balance of a long-term 
campaign. Most likely, the PCs will not find every trinket that has 
been hidden in each comer and cubbyhole, but the DM should 
keep a running record of everything they recover. When the party 
approaches a sensible limit of gathered treasure, the DM should 
begin to omit easily discovered items from subsequently explored 
areas. Once the PCs actually hit that limit, the DM should remove 
all incidental treasure from the rest of the adventure. Leave only 
those valuables that are directly related to the story line, such as the 
sword Albruin (if the PCs are searching for it). 

Spies Eyes 

Because of the considerable power he has fostered over the cen 
turies, Stallac Benadi can see through the eyes of any undead 
within his complex, provided he himself creates them. 
(Chrinson cannot do so without Cyric's aid.) Therefore, any 
confrontation with undead under the control of Stallac alerts 
the Banelich to the PCs' presence. 

If the PCs begin the adventure by either trailing Malakar 
into the sewers or following the treasure map, remember to roll 
for random encounters as the party approaches the complex. 

1. "EwTeR All an< 5 be Damwe^f' 


The passageways beneath Zhentil Keep must be, without a 
doubt, the most dismal places on all of Faerun. You feel a 
strange sense of foreboding here, a visible sense of uneasi 
ness that is difficult to explain, but nonetheless present. 
Your trail ends at a small alcove in a sewer tunnel, far from 
the surface. A closer look at the alcove reveals semicircular 
scrape marks on the floor 




29 















The ghost guarding the entrance to Stallac's domain challenges the party-unsuccessfully. 


The uneasiness you have been experiencing grows in in 
tensity, and with good reason: As you seek to quell the dis 
comfort in your stomach, a noncorporeal creature appears 
before you! It says, "Speak the name of he who is the only 
master of the master and pass. Speak not and die." 


The creature before the party is a ghost in the service of 
Stallac Benadi. If the PCs fail their saving throws at the sight of 
the creature, aging 10 years and fleeing in panic, the ghost mere 
ly fades away and waits for them to approach again. Adventurers 
may add +1 to their saving throws for each time they fail, flee, 
and return, until they finally make successful saving throws. (Of 
course, they may be very old by then!) 

The password for opening the secret door is "Bane" or "the 
true god of strife," or something to that effect. If the party does 
not answer within one minute on the DM's watch, the ghost 
attacks. 

Ghost: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10d4 years; AC 
0 (ethereal) or 8 (material); HD 10; hp 55; MV 9; SA 
Humanoids save vs. spell to avoid flight for 2d6 rounds 


and aging 10d4 years (priests above 6th level immune, all 
characters above 8th level add +2 to the save), magic jar 
attack; SD Can be attacked when ethereal only by crea 
tures in ethereal state, 2d4 damage from holy water only in 
material form, immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold- 
based spells, poison, and paralyzation; SZ M; INT High; 

AL LE; ML 20; XP 7,000. 

Since the ghost is technically outside the complex, Stallac 
cannot see through its eyes and thus be warned of the party's 
approach (see the Spies and Eyes section, above). However, if 
the ghost is losing the battle, it becomes ethereal and flees back 
into the complex to warn its master. Once the above command 
word is spoken or the ghost is defeated, the party must find the 
hidden lever that operates the secret door (as per racial abilities, 
searching for secret doors, and magical detection). 

1: Guar& PosT 

This area is a guard post of undead that monitor the entrance to 
Stallac's complex. If the ghost from area 1 retreats, it will be to 
this area. There are always a minimum of six ju-ju zombies on 
guard here, and an additional 2d4 ju-ju zombies join them if 











































there is increased activity in area 5. 

The additional zombies were added after Chrinson breached 
area 1 and mounted a rear attack during a battle in area 5. 

Ju-ju Zombie: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 6; 

HD 3+12; hp 24; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 

92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

When first approached by the party, the zombies appear as 
corpses slumped against the northern wall. Now that the PCs 
are inside the complex, Stallac is aware of their presence, but he 
orders the zombies to take no action against them unless they 
attack, as he wishes to study them further. The Banelich spends 
as much time as needed to discern the PC's reason for entering 
his domain and to determine whether he can use them against 
Chrinson of the Blazing Sun. One of the ju-ju zombies wears a 
ring of free action, which protects it from the spell hold undead. 

3: Garbage 

This area is filled with the remains of a recent battle in area 5, as 
well as scattered pieces of past victims. Much of the chamber 
contains zombie arms and legs, torn clothing and armor, and 
rusted weapons. 

There is also the body of a man that appears to be over 100 
years old. This poor soul is a victim of the ghost from area 1, a 
cleric of Cyric who tried to sneak in through this entrance in an 
attempt to gain Chrinson's favor. After dying of old age as a 
result of the ghost's attacks, the cleric's body was placed here by 
the ju-ju zombies, to await disposal in area 9. 

Close examination of the cleric's body reveals that his 
clothes carry an powerful aroma of death upon them, yet they 
remain wearable by any human between the heights of 5'4" and 
6'2". The garments also fit elves and half-elves of that height, 
but neither of those demihuman races are present on the side of 
Chrinson of the Blazing Sun, so any elf or half-elf seen wearing 
the raiment of a Cyricist priest will be attacked by the forces of 
Chrinson. The garments consist of plate mail armor emblazoned 
with the symbol of Cyric, a holy symbol of the sinister god, and 
a scarab of protection with five charges remaining. 

A: WaTchful. GuakAUm 

The chamber just north of this position is a major battleground 
for the forces of Stallac Benadi and Chrinson of the Blazing 
Sun. In addition to the guard post at area 2, Stallac has placed 
another powerful undead creature here: a warrior skeleton. The 


skeleton is on guard here only if there is a battle occurring in 
area 5; otherwise, he can be found standing guard at area 34. 

If there is a battle occurring in area 5, read the following to 
the PCs as they approach. 


Through the inky darkness ahead, you hear the moaning 
and groaning of inhuman voices. The clatter and snap of 
bone against bone echoes around you, emanating from the 
chamber beyond. It sounds like some sort of battle rages 
nearby, although the familiar metallic clanging of crossed 
swords is missing. 

A skeleton wreathed in a fiery nimbus steps into the 
hallway before you, dressed in plate mail armor that glows 
from the creature's own fire. In one hand the skeleton holds 
a massive shield, while the other hand wields a long sword 
as black as the night sky. 

The inhuman creature holds firm its stance, and declares 
in a hollow voice, "None shall pass but the faithful of 
Stallac. None but the brave and the dead." 


The warrior skeleton allows no one to pass while a battle is 
occurring in area 5 unless the PCs specifically claim they wish to 
help the forces of Stallac win the battle. The monster does not 
leave its post to pursue anyone retreating back to area 1. Once 
the battle is over (see below), the warrior skeleton returns to 
area 34. Note that the skeleton's flames are simply a visible man 
ifestation of the magic that transformed it into a warrior skele 
ton, and they do not radiate heat or cause flame damage to liv 
ing beings or inert matter. 

Warrior Skeleton: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg ld8+6 
(long sword); AC 0 (plate mail +2) ; HD 9+8; hp 79; MV 6; 

SA +3 attack bonus, creatures with less than 5 HD flee at 
first sight; SD Affected only by magical weapons, not con 
trolled by magical circlet; MR 90%; SZ M; INT Excep 
tional; AL LE; ML 20; XP 5,000. 

5: BdTTlef^eld 

This large chamber was Stallac's first worship chamber for his 
faithful, but with the expansion of his domain, Stallac moved 
deeper into the complex. With the coming of the forces of 
Chrinson, this chamber has become a central battleground, as it 
is one of the few places strategically located between the two 
forces. There are three exits from this chamber: one to the 
north, which leads to the caverns controlled by Chrinson; one 
to the west, which leads to Stallac's domain; and one to the 
south, which leads to area 1 and the sewers of the Keep. 

There is a 50% chance that there is a battle going on in this 
chamber the first time the party enters this area. The PCs 


31 














encounter a battle here on subsequent visits 20% of the time, plus 
a cumulative 5% chance per day. If there is a battle here, the 
skeleton warrior from area 34 guards the southernmost passage 
(area 4) against a possible rear attack by the forces of Chrinson. 

If the PCs interfere with the battle, they are attacked by the 
forces whom they assault. Hence, if the party attacks all the 
undead in the chamber indiscriminately, then the undead table 
their own conflict and turn their attentions to the party. The 
following is a breakdown of the forces which fight here at any 
given time. 

Forces of Stallac 

Common Zombies (2d8): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; AC 8; HD 2; MV 6; SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; SZ M; INT 
Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

Ju-ju Zombies (ld4+3): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 
3d4; AC 6; HD 3+12; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD mon 
ster, 92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon 
needed to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing 
weapons inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, 
immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells. 


poison, mind-affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electric 
ity, and magic missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 
20; XP 975. 

Ghouls (ld6): THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; 

AC 6; HD 2; MV 9; SA Paralyzing touch (2+ld6 rounds); 

SD Immune to sleep and charm spells; SW Protection from 
evil keeps it at bay; SZ M; INT Low; AL CE; ML 12; XP 
175. 

There is a 50% chance that the leader of this force is either a 
wight or Malakar. The wight is be found at the head of the 
attacking forces, while Malakar hangs back near the western 
exit where he can escape easily. 

Wight: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 4+3; 
hp 26; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver or 
+ 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; 

SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light; 

SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

Malakar, hm F12: THACO 8/7, 7 Albruin*; #AT 2/1; 
Dmg 2d4+4 (Albruin*); AC -2 (plate mail +1, shield +1, 
Dex) or AC -4 (plate mail +1, shield +1, Dex, boots of 
speed); hp 92; MV 12 (24 when using boots of speed); SZ M 
(6' tall); AL CN(E); ML 14; XP 5,000; MI Albruin * 
amulet of infravision, boots of speed. 

*Albruin is described in the "Magical Items" appendix in the 
Campaign Book. Briefly, it is +1/+3, glows blue in a lo-foot-diame- 
ter sphere when drawn, speaks common, elvish, drow, and 
thieves' cant, reads languages and magical writings, detects invisible 
objects in a 10-foot-radius when drawn and the bearer is concen 
trating, neutralizes potion 1 time per 3 days, heals its bearer 1 time 
per 12 days, is CN, has in Intelligence of 17 and an Ego of 13. 

S 17, D 17, C 16, I 15, W 11, Ch 12. 

Personality; Vicious, cautious, merciless. 

Forces of Chrinson 

Common Zombies (2d6): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; AC 8; HD 2; MV 6; SD Immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; SZ M; INT 
Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

Ju-ju Zombies (ld3): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; 

AC 6; HD 3+12; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 


















Clerics of Cyric, hm & hf C4 (ld6+l): THACO 18; 
#AT 1; Dmg Id4+1 (footman's mace); AC 6 (studded 
leather and shield); hp 17-25; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M; 
INT Avg; AL NE; ML 13; XP 270. 

Personality: Cruel, vicious, malevolent, distrustful. 

Spells (3/2): 1st: Detect evil, invisibility to undead, light; 

2nd: Obscurement, silence 15' radius. 

6: H'isTorvy of Bawe 

The walls of this section of hallway are painted with murals 
that depict the known history of Lord Bane-god of strife, 
hatred, and tyranny-according to Stallac Benadi. The murals 
emit a faint aura of magic if detected for, as they were placed 
here by Stallac's clerical spells. 


Three large murals adorn the walls of this wide hallway. 
The first depicts a host of great, glowing beings, each bear 
ing the symbol of a different god, ascending skyward on 
invisible steps. At the pinnacle of the shining procession is 
a being marked with the symbol of Bane. To the side, the 
scene dissolves into a host of people bearing the symbol of 
Bane, gathered around a single, similarly marked figure with 
skeletal features, who floats above them. 

The second mural depicts the ascendant, glowing being 
from the first mural, now surrounded by the mass of Banite 
followers. In the background, a skulking figure bearing the 
symbol of Cyric approaches from the shadows, grasping a 
bloody dagger in his hand. 

The third mural depicts the assassin figure of the second 
mural, smitten to his death by the Banite figure. Around 
them, the host of faithful now rends a group of humans 
wearing the symbol of Cyric. The heavens above glow 
brightly, suggesting the glory of the day. 

There is a white-washed section of wall here, suggesting 
that another mural is to be commissioned some time in the 
near future. 


The first section of wall portrays Lord Bane at the pinnacle of 
the gods as they ascend into the heavens at the beginning of 
time. The following sections of wall show the rising of the Cult 
(later church) of Bane through the years, with the largest sec 
tion of wall devoted to Stallac's rise as the Imperceptor of Bane 
and his transformation into a Banelich. The second section of 
the mural depicts the coming of the gods to Faerun during the 
Time of Troubles, showing Bane's faithful gathering around him 
in absolute devotion. Cyric lurks in the background with the 
dagger, symbolically usurping Bane's place with the blade of 
treachery. The final section of wall represents the rebirth of 
Bane into the heavens as a result of the works of his faithful, and 


the destruction of Cyric at the hands of the true god of strife. 
There is one section of wall left open, awaiting the next vision 
of Stallac Benadi. 

As previously stated, the walls on which the murals are 
carved are magical in nature. Physically defacing a mural is 
impossible due to its magical origins. A dispel magic is the only 
way to erase the murals, and it must be successful against 19th- 
level magic. 

7: Gmazb PosX 

This chamber is a guard area for the prison cells in area 8. There 
is always a wight (30%) or ghast (70%) here to guard against 
intruders, especially clerics of Cyric who come here in an 
attempt to free members of their clergy who await sentencing by 
Stallac. The guard to this area has the key to the cells beyond. 

Wight: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 4+3; 
hp 26; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver or 
+ 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; 

SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light; 

SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

Ghast: THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; AC 4; 

HD 4; hp 22; MV 15; SA 10'-radius stench requires suc 
cessful save vs. poison or suffer -2 attack penalty, paralyz 
ing touch affects even elves (4+ld6 rounds); SD Immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and 
paralyzation; SW Cold-iron weapons inflict double dam 
age; SZ M; INT Very; AL CE; ML 14; XP 650. 

8: Prison Ceils 

This area is lined with cells where Stallac's forces hold human 
and demihuman victims until the Banelich readies the spells 
that turn them into undead slaves. There are a total of nine 
cells, and any of the PC party who become captured during the 
adventure will end up here. 

There is one prisoner in the cell farthest from the entrance, a 
cleric of Cyric captured in the last battle at area 5. The cleric's 
name is Sten, and he has been stripped of ail possessions (except 
his pants) and is awaiting the judgment of Stallac. 

If the PCs approach Sten, he begs to be let out, stating that 
to leave him here is a death sentence. He lies about his origins, 
saying he wandered down into the complex through the sewers 
and was captured by a group of zombies while attempting to 
return home. As a cleric of the Prince of Lies, Sten can and will 
say anything to get the PCs to release him. 

If the cleric is set free, he heads for area 21, declaring that the 
PCs should follow him if they seek a way out of the dungeon. He 
also tells the party of Stallac, "who is a great threat to Faerun 
and must be destroyed." 













Sten of Cyric, hm Cl: THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon; AC 10; hp 24; MV 12; SZ M (5' 10" tall); AL 
NE; ML 13; XP 1,400. 

S 15, D 13, C 15, I 14, W 16, C 13. 

Personality: Sly, deceptive, misleading. 

Spells (6/5/2/1): None currently in memory. 

9: Fterzy PIT 

This rough-cut chamber contains an open gate to the Elemental 
Plane of Fire, created by Stallac centuries ago. The gate is one 
way only, and someone or something that is dropped into the pit 
cannot return, except by the command of Stallac. The pit is 
used to deposit mined dirt and rocks, as well as bodies that can 
no longer be animated. Aside from the pit, the chamber is 
empty. Unless they have a way to live on the Elemental Plane of 
Fire amidst unspeakable heat, PCs that enter this gate die, incin 
erated. Items partially inserted in the gate also incinerated, 
unless they are magical. Magical items partially inserted in the 
gate may make a saving throw vs. magical fire in order to survive, 
and must do so each round they are exposed to the gate's flame. 

1 0: Cave-)w-Staff Ac's S )be 

This section of tunnel used to be another major conflict area 
between the two sinister forces, but it has recently collapsed. 
Since both factions are preoccupied with fighting one another, 
the cavern has yet to be cleared by either. Any digging here by 
the PCs attracts attention-roll on the Random Encounters 
table for Stallac's Realm in the Underground Complex section 
above to see what appears. If the tunnel can be cleared by quiet 
means, the party finds several twisted and broken zombies, one 
of which is wearing a ring of protection +2. 

11: Caue-iw- Chizitosoto's 

The same set of rules apply to this section of tunnel as to area 
10, except there are three ju-ju zombies here that guard the 
cave-in and watch for activity in areas 5 and 12. 

Ju-ju Zombies (3): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 6; 

HD 3+12; hp 25, 27, 28; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD mon 
ster, 92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons inflict 
half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind-affecting 
spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic missiles; SZ 
M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

Each of these zombies has a long bow and a quiver of a dozen 
arrows. They instinctively recognize the raiment of followers of 
Chrinson, and attack anyone who is not a member of that fac 
tion (or is not dressed like one). 


1 2.. Gafbefciwg Aizga 

This naturally formed chamber is a gathering place for the forces 
of Chrinson, which march to area 5 for battle. This is also where 
the followers of Cyric retreat when they need to regroup (which 
is often). The ju-ju zombies from area 11 watch this chamber for 
activity, and there is a 30% chance that a PC part will en 
counter two more similarly armed ju-ju zombies hiding within 
the northern rocks. (See also area 24.) 

13: Rats 

The rocks of this cavern are riddled with holes that serve as 
homes to a pack of Zhentish sewer rats. The rats have thrived 
here, as there is never a shortage of bodies to feed upon. The rats 
are rather large and very aggressive. They have taken to attack 
ing live prey. Anyone investigating the holes in the walls starts a 
rat attack in the chamber. 

Zhentish Sewer Rats (3d8): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld4+l; AC 6; HD 2; hp 16 (leader rat) and remainder 9 
each; MV 12, Sw 18; SA Blood drain; SD Displacement; 

SW Hate bright light and -2 penalty to attack in daylight 
or continual light; SZ S (2' long); INT Low; AL NE; ML 
12; XP 270 (leader), 177 each (remainder of pack). 

Blood Drain: On a natural 20 attack roll, the rat has fastened 
itself to its victim and inflicts an automatic ld4+l damage per 
round until removed by successful open doors roll. It takes one 
round to try and remove the rat, during which time the victim 
may take no other actions except moving at half his or her move 
ment rate. Displacement: The first attack on a Zhentish sewer rat 
always misses. 

The sewer rats attack until the leader rat is killed. Once the 
leader rat is killed, the remaining rats must make a morale check 
each round. On the round they fail a morale check, they flee 
back into their holes. 

14: Seuoeiz W<\Teiz 

This chamber contains a watery, viscous substance that covers 
half of the cavern. This material is pure, bacteria-ridden sludge 
that has oozed down here from the sewers above. The rocks 
around this chamber work as a strainer for the sludge as the sewer 
water moves underground and collects in area 15 and 16. Its 
stench is perceptible from far beyond the chamber, and those who 
wish to enter must make successful Constitution check or find 
that they are unable to stomach the odor at such close range. 

The sludge here is also poisonous. Stepping into the sludge, 
or even stepping close enough to probe it with a sword, puts the 
PC on slippery ground, requiring a successful Dexterity ability 
check each round to keep one's footing. (The DM might want 
to make all checks so the player(s) is not aware of the danger. 


34 










but a warning that the floor is slippery is probably in order.) 
Failure of a Dexterity ability check indicates a slip and fall into 
the mess, whereupon the startled character inadvertently ingests 
a bit of sludge. The character must then make a successful sav 
ing throw vs. poison or become nauseated for the next ld4 days, 
suffering a -1 penalty to all attack and damage rolls during that 
time. A neutralize poison spell ends the effect immediately. 

15: Mudmew 

The water in this chamber is deeper than the sludge in area 14, 
a result of centuries of erosion. With the sustained concentra 
tion of magic in the nearby complex and the city above, a large 
group of mudmen have formed in this area. They now guard the 
pool here and in area 16. Both Chrinson and Stallac know of 
the mudmen, and the clerics of Cyric have attempted to bring 
the creatures under their control, to no avail. 

Anyone entering this area draws the attention of the crea 
tures, who rise out of the water and attack. The water here 
reaches a depth of 15 feet, with a sharp drop off after only a few 
feet (which cannot be seen from outside the water). The chan 
nel leading to area 16 is also of the same depth. There are a 
maximum of 20 mudmen present, split between this area and 
the adjacent chamber, though at least one of the creatures 
always guards the "special magic" (see area 16). 

Note that the possibility of slipping, as defined in area 14, 
exists here as well. Anyone who falls into the sludge is immedi 
ately and automatically hit by several mudmen, becoming 
immobilized in one round. Since both forces leave this area 
alone, it is a good place for the PCs to rest or regroup (after 
defeating the mudmen). 

Mudmen (20): THACO 19; #AT 1 (thrown mud); 
Dmg Successful hit slows movement by 1-completely 
immobilized victims suffer ld8 damage per round and suf 
focate in five rounds unless rescued; AC 10; HD 4 (see 
below); hp 23 each; MV 3; SA Mudmen within 10' hurl 
themselves at targets, slowing movement by 4 with a hit, 
all targets considered AC 10 (Dex bonus applies); SD 
Immune to poison and mind-affecting spells; SW Dispel 
magic and dig act as fireballs, transmute mud to rock kills all 
mudmen within area of effect (no save); SZ S; INT Non; 

AL N; ML 20; XP 175 each. 

The presence of a ring of elemental control in area 16 gives the 
mudmen one more Hit Die than normal. 

16: Mud DuuelUw g 

This sunken chamber is filled with water, with only 6 inches of 
air at the top of the cavern. All of the mudmen originated in 
this cavern, the product of nearby magical influences and the 


presence of a ring of elemental control - earth, which rests at the 
bottom of the pool. There is always a minimum of one mudman 
here to protect the ring. Though the mudmen are nonintelli- 
gent, they instinctively comprehend that the presence of the 
ring helps to give them life and strength. 

In addition to the magical ring, the following treasure has 
incidentally accumulated here over the years: 274 gold pieces, 
515 silver pieces, 756 copper pieces, and a wand of fear with 17 
charges. 

17: SUroe 

The ceiling here is covered in green slime, which drops upon 
anyone who passes through this corridor. 

Green Slime: THACO 19; #AT 0 (drops onto victim 
automatically); Dmg nil; AC 9; HD 2; hp 13; MV 0; SA 
Victim is dissolved in ld4 rounds (no resurrection possi 
ble), dissolves armor in three rounds; SD Unaffected by 
weapons or spells; SW Cure disease kills it; SZ S; INT Non; 

AL N; ML 10; XP 120. 

Slumped against the far wall are a few odd remnants of the 
green slime's last victim, a cleric of Cyric who got separated from 







35 




















his allies during the last battle. The slime has dissolved nearly all 
of the cleric and his equipment, and only his holy symbol 
remains clasped in a skeletal hand. 

18: NaTuraL CbAmberc. 

Once the party enters this chamber read the following text. 


Stalactites and stalagmites cover the floor and ceiling of this 
chamber, blocking the view of anything more than a few feet 
away. The distant dripping of water can be heard from some 
where within the cavern, and that is the only sound you hear. 

Several undead lurk within this chamber, awaiting the forces 
of Stallac, should they pass this way. The undead-zombies and 
ju-ju zombies-are hidden among the rock formations, imposing 
a -3 penalty upon surprise rolls. 

Common Zombies (5): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld8; 

AC 8; HD 2; hp 11, 12, 12, 14, 15; MV 6; SD Immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW 
Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; 

SZ M; INT Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

Ju-ju Zombies (2): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 
6; HD 3+12; hp 25, 27; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD 
monster, 92% climb walls ability; SD + 1 or better weapon 
needed to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing 
weapons inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, 
immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, 
poison, mind-affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electric 
ity, and magic missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 
20; XP 975. 


Closer examination of this chamber reveals large deposits of 
silver and copper in the floor and southern walls. A dwarf, with 
proper mining supplies, can extract 2d 100+50 gp-worth of ore 
per day from these walls, provided she or he can work uninter 
rupted. Each additional dwarf adds an additional IdlOO gp to 
the profits. (Both Stallac and Chrinson have been too busy skir 
mishing to notice the rich deposits of minerals in this chamber.) 

1 9: LosT Souk 


Hidden within this chamber is the undead form of Cerchan of 
Lathander, a cleric of the Morninglord who was captured by 
clerics of Cyric in the Keep. Cerchan was transformed into a 
wight by Chrinson and set loose in the caverns. The undead 
thing has been here nearly since the beginning of the conflict, 
but he does not submit to the commands of either Chrinson or 
Stallac. The Banelich has even offered Cerchan a position in his 
fold, but the wight has refused him. 

If approached by the party, Cerchan begs them to stay away, as 
he has a difficult time controlling his hatred of all that lives. As 


the DM role-plays him, the wight should speak with barely con 
strained fury, appearing to struggle more desperately with himself 
with each passing minute. After the ld4 rounds of contact, 
Cerchan must make a successful saving throw vs. death magic 
each round or his undead cravings overcome him and he launches 
himself at the PCs. Furthermore, each successful save adds a 
cumulative -1 penalty to the next roll, to a maximum of -4. 

If the time is taken to converse with Cerchan, he tells the 
PCs of the conflict between Stallac of Bane and Chrinson of the 
Blazing Sun. He states that both sides are completely and utterly 
evil, though Stallac seems to be the lesser of two evils. He also 
informs them that, during his interview with the lich-priest, he 
learned that Stallac has no intention of leaving his complex 
until Bane is restored to his proper place among the gods. 


Cerchan (Wight): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 
5; HD 4+3; hp 26; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only 
by silver or + 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyza- 
tion; SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright 
light; SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

20 : Uchew 

This chamber is covered with a subterranean lichen that emits a 
light blue glow. The followers of Chrinson cultivate and use the 
lichen as a natural light source in the tunnels whenever possible, 
preferring it over the bright glow of a light or continual light spell. 
A lone ju-ju zombie guards this area for Chrinson. 


Ju-ju Zombie: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 6; 
HD 3+12; hp 25; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 


21: PassAge bo on. Out 

If the PCs have begun the adventure by escaping the dungeons 
of Zhentil Keep, they enter the complex at this point. The pas 
sageway here is extremely thin (5 feet wide by 7 feet high), and 
it is slick with moisture and algae, making travel difficult and 
combat dangerous. Hence any sudden movement, including 
engagement in combat, requires a successful Dexterity check to 
avoid falling. 

This shaft leads to the upper sewer passages, which branch 
out to the dungeons of the Detention Center, as well as the 
sewer ducts that empty into the River Tesh. This is a way into 
the complex for the PCs, but it is also a way out. 



36 











2.2.: Passage Gudrib 

Those who enter or attempt to exit the complex through area 
21 attract the attention of the monstrous guard lurking here. 
Chrinson has made a pact with a lone cloaker to guard this area. 
The cloaker is fed slaves (and sometimes clerics of Cyric who 
displease the bumbones) on a regular basis to keep it happy, so it 
has not been disappointed with the deal. 

The cloaker does not attack anyone who wears the holy crest 
of the Prince of Lies (a skull within a black sun), and it has no 
interest in undead, as its diet consists of living victims. 

Cloaker: THACO 15; #AT 2 + special; Dmg Id6/ld6/ 
special; AC 3 (stinging tail is AC 1); HD 6; hp 34 (tail 16); 

MV 1, FI 15(D); SA First hit engulfs victim and inflicts ld4 
damage + victim's unadjusted AC, moan, manipulate shad 
ows; SD Half of all damage sustained is bestowed upon 
engulfed victim, area-effect spells inflict full damage upon 
both; SW Light negates shadow manipulation (see below); 

SZ L; INT High; AL CN; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

Moan: The cloaker may moan instead of bite, causing any one 
of the four following effects: Those within 80 feet suffer a -2 
penalty to attack and damage rolls, and listening for five consecu 
tive rounds places victims in a trance that lasts until the moaning 
stops; those within 30 are affected by fear, fleeing for two rounds 
unless a successful save vs. spell is made; those in a 30-foot-long 
by 20-foot-wide cone must successfully save vs. poison or suffer 
incapacitating nausea for ld4+l rounds; or one person may be 
affected as by a hold person spell for five rounds. Neutralize poison 
negates any of the effects of moaning. 

Manipulate Shadows: The cloaker can also manipulate shad 
ows, obscuring vision and lowering its AC to 1, or creating a mir 
ror image effect with ld4+2 images. 

25: Escaped Ptzlsoioerz 

A mangled body lies on the floor of this chamber, an unfortu 
nate victim of the cloaker from area 22. The body is that of a 
human male named Doro, who died only a couple of hours ago. 
Although the victim is severely disfigured from the attack, his 
clothing indicates that he was once a prisoner of the Detention 
Center, who must have escaped through the tunnel at area 21. 

If spells like speak with dead are used on Doro, there is nothing 
he can tell the party other than that he was attacked by some crea 
ture that looked like a wall of black. Doro is nothing more than a 
victim of Zhentil Keep's corruption. He was thrown into the 
dungeons of the Detention Center simply because he could not 
bribe a Zhentilar guard enough to leave him alone. He has not seen 
enough of the underground complex to be of any use to the PCs. 

2 A: GNtherdihig Aiz&d 

Before launching an attack against Stallac's forces, the clerics of 
Cyric gather in this area to count their undead, animate corpses. 


and prepare spells for the forthcoming battle. (See also area 12.) 
If there was a battle in progress in area 5 within the last turn, 
there may not be anything of significance for the party to find 
here. There are dozens of footprints on the dusty cavern floor, 
many of them made by zombies, who drag their feet or limp as a 
result of being animated one too many times. 

If the PCs found no battle in area 5, the following force will 
be here, on the side of Chrinson: 

Common Zombies (2d8): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; AC 8; HD 2; MV 6; SD Immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; SZ M; INT 
Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

Ju-ju Zombies (ld3): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; 

AC 6; HD 3+ 12; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

Clerics of Cyric, hm C4 (3): THACO 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+l (footman's mace); AC 6 (studded leather and 
shield); hp 17 each; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M; INT Avg; 

AL NE; ML 13; XP 270. 

Personality: Cruel, vicious, malevolent, distrustful. 

Spells (3/2): 1st: Detect evil, invisibility to undead, light; 
2nd: Obscurement, silence 15 ' radius. 

25: Bldbe Bdizizleizs 

In an effort to limit the battles between the two forces to one 
area, Stallac has erected a permanent blade barrier at these two 
locations. The barriers are cast at the 19th level of ability, and 
they are beyond the power of Chrinson or the PCs to dispel 
(unless they possess a rod of cancellation or other such powerful 
magic). Anyone stepping into the barriers will sustain 8d8 
points of damage and must make a successful Strength check to 
push themselves through to the other side. Those who fail the 
Strength check still suffer damage from the barrier, but cannot 
pass through as intended. 

26: UhJ&edb CdtiKidge 

Here lie the remains of several undead who attempted to pass 
through the blade barrier and failed. There are the remains of a 
half-dozen zombies and the bodies of two clerics of Cyric who 
were ordered by Chrinson to pass through the barrier. One of 
the clerics still carries a potion of flying that was to get him over 
the chasm at area 27. Somehow, the potion survived the blade 
barrier and can be found tucked into his shredded clothing. 



37 













27: Chasm 

When the party reaches this point from either side, read the fol 
lowing boxed text. 


The crevasse before you is vast, much wider than you could leap 
under your own power. Through the darkness you can see 
another passage on the far side of the chasm, aligned slightly to 
the left of your current position. Peering down into the darkness 
of the fissure, you can see the distant glow of molten rock in the 
jagged depths. A hot, acrid odor rises to sting at your nostrils. 


The chasm is nearly a quarter mile deep, with a pool of 
molten rock at its bottom. There is nothing of value there. 
Anyone who attempts to climb down the cliff suffers a -20% 
penalty to climbing attempts, due to loose rock and unsure foot 
ing. Any rogue who examines the sides of the crevasse may 
attempt an Intelligence check to determine the difficulty of the 
climb, but the PC must announce the intention to do so. Those 
who fail their climb walls rolls may attempt a Dexterity check to 
see if they manage to grab hold of something to check their fall. 
Those lucky PCs who find a handhold, but fail a subsequent 
climb walls roll, cannot climb back up and must be rescued by 
their comrades. Anyone plunging into the lava suffers 20d6 
points of falling damage, then 5dl0 points of bum damage per 
round until rescued (assuming she or he survives). 

The chasm width varies from 10 to 30 feet across, and the 
diagonal distance between the two tunnels is 40 feet. A small 
ledge below the lip of the eastern tunnel offers an excellent hid 
ing place for up to three man-sized or smaller creatures. The 
climb down to the ledge is 10 feet, and it requires one climbing 
check per character to reach. 


the Zhentil Keep Ruins Random Encounters card in this set for a 
selection of possible encounters appropriate to the area.) 

Clerics of Cyric, hm C4 (24): THAC0 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+l (footman's mace); AC 6 (studded leather and 
shield); hp 17 each; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M; INT Avg; 

AL NE; ML 13; XP 270. 

Personality: Cruel, vicious, malevolent, distrustful. 

Spells (3/2): 1st: Detect evil, invisibility to undead, light; 
2nd: Obscurement, silence 15' radius. 

29: Usjdedd STo ridge 

This chamber is where the clerics of Cyric house their undead 
for use in the battles against Stallac. As the PCs enter the cham 
ber, read the following text. 


Dozens of bodies line the walls of this chamber, all lying 
motionless as your light flashes upon them. The stench of 
death and decay wafting from the cavern is appalling, and 
your hand reflexively covers your nose and mouth to keep 
from inhaling too much of the vile odor. Flies, rats, and 
other scavengers scurry around the chamber and feast. 

A humanoid-shaped cloud of blackness takes form be 
fore you. "Only the faithful of Cyric may enter. Unbelievers 
beware!" howls the creature as it moves toward you. 


The creature is a wraith under the control of Kranzzel, the 
highest ranking priest here, aside from Chrinson. The wraith 
has been instructed to post a warning to all who enter here 
without presenting a holy symbol of Cyric. If one such holy sym 
bol is not presented to the wraith within one round of its 
appearance, the creature attacks. 


28: CoNNecTroN To The Surifdee 

This cavern contains a tunnel and ladder that leads to the temple 
of Cyric (the Circle of Darkness or the Black Altar, depending on 
the exact timing of the scenario) in Zhentil Keep above. Depend 
ing on the time line of the adventure, this is either an escape for 
the party or a deadly trap. If the time of the adventure is before 
the destruction of Zhentil Keep (circa the time of the Banedeath, 
as mentioned above), then the PCs emerge from the tunnel only 
to be greeted by two dozen clerics of Cyric. If the time the adven 
ture is set in has been moved to after the destruction of Zhentil 
Keep, the PCs surface in the ruins of the Black Altar (of Cyric at 
this time), which worshipers of Chrinson (and often the burn- 
bones himself) have been using as a base to collect zombie vic 
tims, supplies, and other items needed to continue the war against 
Stallac. In the latter case, there are no guards at the ruins, but the 
PCs are at the mercy of the monsters who roam the ruins. (See 



Wraith: THAC0 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; AC 4; HD 5+3; hp 36; 
MV 12, FI 24(B); SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver and + 1 
weapons (silver inflicts half damage), immune to sleep, charm, hold, 
death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light, raise dead destroys (save 
vs. spell applies); SZ M; INT Very; AL LE; ML 15; XP 2,000. 


Several of the zombies stored here have been animated, but 
the majority of them either need to be repaired, or they are fresh 
dead deposited here (to be converted to undead later). None of 
the zombies attack without the commands of a true priest of 
Cyric (not just someone presenting Cyric's holy symbol). On the 
finger of one of the undead is a ring of flying that has yet to be 
noticed by the clerics. The ring is concealed by rotting flesh and 
the zombie's garments, and a detect magic is needed to find it 
among the other corpses. 


38 















30: deities of Cyitic 

This cavern has been converted into living quarters for the 
priests of Chrinson who serve in the cause against Stallac of 
Bane. A makeshift wooden wall and door has been erected to 
provide the clerics with some measure of comfort deep within 
these cold caverns. There are 10 bunks here for the followers of 
Chrinson's cause that sleep two clerics in each. 

The clerics of Cyric here are some of the most fanatical in 
the congregation of the Prince of Lies, desiring nothing more 
than the destruction of all worshipers of Bane. Most are young 
recruits who are blinded by their own devotion, but there are a 
few who are wary of the insanity of this conflict. In the end, all 
will follow the commands of Chrinson of the Blazing Sun for 
fear of eternal damnation at the hands of Cyric, as well as the 
fiery might of the bumbones. 


Clerics of Cyric, hm C4 (15): THACO 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+l (footman's mace); AC 6 (studded leather and 
shield); hp 17 each; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M; INT Avg; 
AL NE; ML 13; XP 270. 

Personality: Cruel, vicious, malevolent, distrustful. 
Spells (3/2): 1st: Detect evil, invisibility to undead, light; 
2nd: Obscurement, silence 15' radius. 

Kranzzel's Lieu 
tenants, hm C6 (4): 

THACO 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld4+l (footman's 
mace); AC 4 (chain 
mail and shield); hp 
26, 27, 29, 30; MV 9 
(lightly encumbered); 
SA Spells; SZ M; INT 
Avg; AL NE; ML 14; 
XP 975. 

Personality: Cruel, 
vicious, malevolent, 
Kranzzel distrustful. 

Spells (3/3/2): 1st: Cause light wounds, light, protection 
from evil; 2nd: Charm person, hold person, obscurement; 3rd: 
Animate dead, dispel magic. 

Kranzzel, hm C12: THACO 13, 10 staff of striking; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld4+l (footman's mace), ld6+3 (staff of strik 
ing -1 charge*); AC 1 (chin mail +2 and shield, Dex); hp 
43; MV 12; SA Spells; SZ M (5' 9" tall); AL NE; ML 15; 
XP 5,000; MI Staff of striking with 16 charges. 

*If two charges are expended from the staff, damage is ld6+6; 
if three, ld6+9. 

S 17, D 15, C 15, I 15, W 18, Ch 10. 

Personality: Self centered, brutal, callous, wary. 




Spells (8/7/6/4/2Z2): 1st: Bless, command (x2), cause light 
wounds, invisibility to undead, light, protection from good, pro 
tection from evil; 2nd: Aid, charm person, hold person, resist 
fire (x2), silence 15' radius, wyvern watch; 3rd: Animate dead 
(x4), negative plane protection (x2); 4th: Cause serious 
wounds (x2), poison, tongues; 5th: Flame strike, raise dead; 

6th: Blade barrier, word of recall. 

A search of this chamber reveals little in the way of treasure, 
as many of the clerics keep their valuables well hidden. 
However, with an active search there is an 80% chance to find 
about one-tenth of the total treasure at a time, hidden in niches 
under cots and in wall crevasses: 240 gold pieces, 176 silver, two 
flawed gems worth 20 gold each, and a potion of undead control. 
The DM can adjust the exact amount found with each success 
ful percentile roll. 

Not all of the clerics are here at any one time, as several of 
them are out on patrol. There are always 2d4 lower-level clerics 
and one to two lieutenants present at any one time. Kranzzel is 
here only 15% of the time; otherwise, he wanders in area 32. 

31: Wight Have* 

Chrinson has control of only a few wights, though he creates 
them as quickly as he can by throwing living captives into this 
cavern and letting the existing wights drain them of life. Wights 
who are "killed" in combat are reanimated as zombies if their 
bodies are still intact. 

There are always a minimum of three wights here at any one 
time, in addition to other wights found throughout the complex. 
The wights do not leave this grotto unless they are commanded 
to leave by the clerics of Cyric or they are attacked. 

Wights (3): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 
4+3; hp 26, 27, 27; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only 
by silver or + 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyza- 
tion; SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright 
light; SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

3/2: Chiz'ibjsoto's ChAcnberz 

If the PCs make it to this chamber and confront Chrinson him 
self, read the following: 


The rock walls of the corridor and connecting chamber 
have been literally melted to create straight lines, perfectly 
smooth from end to end. In fact, they seem to continue to 
radiate with heat, filling the area with a soft, crimson glow 
and warming it slightly. 



39 















At the far end of the chamber you see a chilling sight, an 
all-too-real manifestation of the power it must have taken 
to create this room: Sitting on a hunk of rock that has been 
molded to fit its form, a huge skeleton that blazes with 
unearthly fire stares back at you. The monster gestures to 
you, instantly proving it is sentient and alert. 

"Welcome to my home, brave ones," announces the crea 
ture in a hollow, deathly voice. "I am Chrinson of the Blazing 
Sun. What brings you to my realm? Surely you are not min 
ions of the evil Stallac of Bane, my mortal enemy, who even 
now seeks to extend his power to all of Faerun. Speak!" 


Chrinson plays the cordial host as long as it suits him. He 
may make an offer of employment (see Plots and Subplots) in an 
attempt to weaken Stallac's power base, but he tolerates no inso 
lence from the party. Any visible act of aggression is met with 
quick retaliation by the burnbones and any of his faithful that 
are present (Kranzzel the high priest has an 85% chance to be 
here unless he was encountered in area 30 and slain). 

The creation of Cyric attempts to play on the PCs' ignorance 
and sympathies, hoping they will aid him in his battle with 


Stallac. He capitalizes upon whatever brought the PCs into the 
complex, be it to search for the sword Albruin or anything else, 
always faulting Stallac for any troubles they have experienced. 

There is a possibility the PCs might be brought before Chrin 
son shortly after escaping from the dungeons of the Detention 
Center. If this is the case, the burnbones offers the PCs a deal: 
They must try to destroy Stallac's phylactery in exchange for 
their freedom. Chrinson ensures the pact by placing a quest spell 
upon each PC. Of course, Chrinson has no intention of reward 
ing the party with anything except pain and death. 

Should the party destroy Chrinson, Kranzzel (who will 
escape via word of recall) will take up the torch of leadership in 
the fight against Stallac (unless he, too, has been destroyed). 
However, it will take several days for the cleric to muster a force 
of clerics and undead and return to the chambers. Stallac, in the 
meantime, will send a powerful force of undead into the natural 
caverns, to rout out any of the remaining forces of Chrinson. 

55.* STaw6)K3g Ju-Ju 

Secluded in the comer of this chamber is a lone ju-ju zombie 
under the control of the Banelich Stallac. The zombie does 
nothing but stand and observe the PCs as they pass or enter the 



Chrinson of the Blazing Sun welcomes his guests before trying to kill them. 


















































































































































































































































small chamber. It makes no aggressive movement toward the 
PCs, and does not attack unless they do so first. 

Stallac is observing the PCs through the eyes of his creation, 
attempting to determine their motives for entering his home. As 
the party reaches this point, Stallac realizes they are not simply 
explorers, but are adventurers who have quite likely entered his 
realm for some puipose. Should the party address the ju-ju, Stallac 
will answer simple questions regarding his home, and he may even 
make the party a diabolical offer (see Plots and Subplots). 

Ju-ju Zombie: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; AC 6; 

HD 3 + 12; hp 25; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

54-* HaU-cjuay Gmazb 

This passage is the beginning of what Stallac has dubbed the 
Walk of Strife, and a guardian blocks the entrance to all except 
those whom his master commands to pass. Unless the PCs have 
destroyed the warrior skeleton from area 4, it is here to guard 
against the party's passage. If that skeleton has been exterminat 
ed, then a ghost is present to block the way. The skeleton is one 
of the Warriors of Bane, the rest of which are located at area 49. 

Warrior Skeleton: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg ld8+6 
(long sword); AC 0 (plate mail +2); HD 9+8; hp 79; MV 6; 

SA +3 attack bonus, creatures with less than 5 HD flee at 
first sight; SD Affected only by magical weapons, not con 
trolled by magical circlet; MR 90%; SZ M; INT Excep 
tional; AL LE; ML 20; XP 5,000. 

Ghost: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg Age 10d4 years; AC 
0 (ethereal) or 8 (material); HD 10; hp 55; MV 9; SA 
Humanoids save vs. spell to avoid flight for 2d6 rounds 
and aging 10d4 years (priests above 6th level immune, all 
characters above 8th level add +2 to the save), magic jar 
attack; SD Can be attacked when ethereal only by crea 
tures in ethereal state, 2d4 damage from holy water only in 
material form, immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold- 
based spells, poison, and paralyzation; SZ M; INT High; 

AL LE; ML 20; XP 7,000. 

If the PCs have been nonaggressive as they traveled through 
Stallac's section of the labyrinth, the guardian allows them to 
pass through unhindered, yet it follows them on their journey. If 
the party decides to move on and travel to the eastern cham 
bers, the guardian allows them to pass, as long as they have done 
little harm to the forces of Stallac. 


35: WaUc of STirife 

This corridor is dedicated to all known High Imperceptors of 
Bane, including Stallac Benadi himself. There are 10 vaults 
along the hallway, but only eight of them (A-H) are engraved; 
two are reserved for future commemorations. Stallac has placed 
a mummy in vaults A-G, to hold and protect the place re 
served for the remains of each former Imperceptor. (The Bane- 
lich plans to make this place the official resting place of all 
High Imperceptors, after Bane regains his rightful place as the 
god of strife.) The Imperceptors' vaults are listed below, with 
their accompanying epitaphs. 

A. Stallac Benadi 

First Imperceptor of Bane, 735-844 DR 

First and greatest follower of Bane, invested with the title of 
Imperceptor by the avatar of the Lord of Strife himself Seventh in 
Faerun to receive the greatest gift of Bane. 

B. Tomar of Bane 

Second Imperceptor of Bane, 801-877 DR 

Most ruthless of all Imperceptors, Tomar's greatest achievement was 
the introduction of a deadly plague into the Western Heartlands, 
causing the deaths of thousands. Eighth in Faerun to receive the great 
est gift of Bane. 

C. Harr Santolic 

Third Imperceptor of Bane, 848-966 DR 

Following in the footstep of his predecessors, Harr Santolic is attrib 
uted with the rise in the church of Bane in the Western Heartlands. 

D. Wedic B'donder 

Fourth Imperceptor of Bane, 901-1010 DR 

A savage Imperceptor, who brought the worship of the Lord of Strife 
to full blossom within the walls of Zhentil Keep. Last in Faerun to 
receive the greatest gifi of Bane. 

E. Forja B'donder 

Fifth High Imperceptor of Bane, 988-1076 DR 

The only female to be named High Imperceptor-in her father's foot 
steps-and the most beautiful of all Banites to walk the face of Faerun. 
Renowned for the vast number of Harpers who died at her hands. 

F. Strife 

Sixth High Imperceptor of Bane, 1055-1141 DR 

Raised from birth by his predecessor to succeed her us Imperceptor, 
Strife brought quarreling factions of the church together and spread the 
word of Bane further than any other mortal upon the face of Faerun. 
Died at the hands of treacherous Harpers. 




wmB. 


41 













G. Brist of Bane 

Seventh High Imperceptor of Bane, 1120-1224 DR 57* EjrOAOATlON) M XX&SJi AkS 


Youngest to possess the mantle of Imperceptor, Brist begun the war 
against the jealous gods of Faerun, who sought to banish Banites 
everywhere. Died at the hands of a chic of Lathander. 

H. Szchulan Darkoon 

Eighth High Imperceptor of Bane, 1207- 


One round after any PC attempts to deface a monument, its 
wall slides to the side, releasing a mummy. The creatures do 
not follow vandals from the area. When those who disturbed 
their rest leave, awakened mummies go back to the monument 
they guarded, mend any damage, and then return to their state 
of torpor. 


Mummy: THACO 13; #AT 1; Dmg ldl2; AC 3; HD 
6+3; hp 42; MV 6; SA Opponents save vs. spell to avoid 
ld4 of paralyzation with fear (+ 1 to save per six opponents 
present, humans receive +2 bonus), touch imparts disease; 
SD Hit only by magical weapons, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, cold-based spells, poison and paralysis; SW Resurrec 
tion turns the mummy into a human (7th-level fighter), 
torches inflict 1-3 damage, burning oil inflicts ld8 damage 
on first round and 2d8 on second, magical fire adds + 1 
damage per die, holy water inflicts 2d4 damage; SZ M; 
INT Low; AL LE; ML 15; XP 3,000. 


36 : Mal-akAR. 

This chamber is the residence of Malakar, Stallac's agent to the 
city above. The room is closed with an iron door that is always 
locked. Only Malakar has the key; impose a -25% penalty upon 
lockpicking attempts due to superior craftsmanship. The room is 
adorned with a comfortable bed, a table and two chairs, and a 
couple of fine rugs. There is a locked chest beneath the bed 
(same key and type of lock) that contains Malakar's accumulat 
ed wealth: 755 platinum pieces, 544 gold pieces, 12 opals worth 
250 gold pieces each, four potions of extra-healing, and three 
scrolls of restoration given to him by Stallac, to be used if his life 
force is drained by minions of Chrinson. 

If the PCs have been rather quiet during their travels 
through the complex, Malakar is here resting before the next 
conflict. He attacks any PCs who break into his chambers, and 
fights to the death before giving up the sword Albruin. 

If the party has already encountered Malakar somewhere in 
the dungeon, or if the PCs have been destroying everything in 
their path, then Malakar is mustering undead in areas 49 and 51 
for a retaliatory attack. 

Malakar can also lead friendly PCs to Stallac, should they 
request an audience. 



This chamber contains picks, shovels, and ore carts used by the 
undead minions of Stallac Benadi to construct this underground 
realm. There are a total of 20 shovels and 13 picks. The equip 
ment has seen little use since the coming of Chrinson of the 
Blazing Sun, and the tools now sit here, covered with dust and 
cobwebs. Many of these items can be used as weapons if the 
party is hard pressed, but they must make saving throws vs. 
crushing blow if maximum damage is inflicted on a victim; fail 
ure indicates the tool breaks or otherwise becomes useless. Both 
the shovels and the picks inflict ld4+l points of damage upon a 
successful hit. DMs should be sure that nonproficiency penalties 
have been applied to attack rolls. 

38 : MAgicAk ExcaoaT)om 

The door to this chamber is trapped with a glyph of warding that 
floods with fire the hall connecting this chamber to area 37, 
inflicting 19d4 points of damage upon all who stand within. 
Characters who are not blocked from area 37 in any way may 
attempt a Dexterity check to leap free of the blast. Provided 
they are successful, those directly behind them may attempt the 
same, with -2 penalties applied to the rolls. (Normal saving 
throws apply to those who cannot escape the blast.) Once the 
trap is set off, it is safe to enter the chamber-that is, until the 
PCs meet the wight lurking within. . . . 

Wight: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 4+3; 
hp 26; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver or 
+ 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; 

SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light; 

SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 


Stored within this chamber are some of the magical items 
that Stallac uses to carve the rock of the complex. In a chest in 
one comer of the room (no lock or trap) is the following: a spade 
of colossal excavation, a wand of earth and stone with four charges 
remaining, and a pair of gauntlets of ogre power, which are needed 
to wield the spade. Stallac will be extremely upset if the party 
takes these items, and he will order a force of undead creatures 
to pursue the PCs to retrieve them. (The DM must determine a 
sufficient force to challenge the party from areas 39-42.) 


5 9-4k 2: Foizces of Uw&e 

These four rooms are where the bulk of Stallac's undead minions 
gather when not in combat against the forces of Chrinson. 
Since all of these undead were created by Stallac, the Banelich 
is constantly aware of what they see and do, so he can mobilize 
the force at any time. 



42 












As the PCs encounter each of the chambers, they notice 
undead standing in a trancelike state, awaiting orders. The 
rooms contain the following undead: 

39: Grunt Troops 

Common Zombies (20): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8; AC 8; HD 2; MV 6; SD Immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, and poison; SW Holy water 
inflicts 2d4 damage, attacks last every round; SZ M; INT 
Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 65. 

40: Shock Troopers 

Ju-ju Zombies (12): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 3d4; 

AC 6; HD 3+12; MV 9; SA Attacks as a 6-HD monster, 
92% climb walls ability; SD +1 or better weapon needed 
to hit, turned as spectre, blunt and piercing weapons 
inflict half damage, fire causes half damage, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, mind- 
affecting spells, psionics, illusions, electricity, and magic 
missiles; SZ M; INT Low; AL N(E); ML 20; XP 975. 

41: Sergeants of the Cause 

Ghouls (9): THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; 

AC 6; HD 2; MV 9; SA Paralyzing touch (2+ld6 rounds); 

SD Immune to sleep and charm spells; SW Protection from 
evil keeps it at bay; SZ M; INT Low; AL CE; ML 12; XP 
175. 

Ghasts (4): THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; 

AC 4; HD 4; MV 15; SA 10'-radius stench requires suc 
cessful save vs. poison or suffer -2 attack penalty, paralyz 
ing touch affects even elves (4+ld6 rounds); SD Immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and 
paralyzation; SW Cold-iron weapons inflict double dam 
age; SZ M; INT Very; AL CE; ML 14; XP 650. 

42: Incorporeal Officer Material 

Wights (7): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld4; AC 5; HD 
4+3; MV 12; SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by silver or 
+ 1 or better magical weapon, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, cold-based spells, poison, and paralyzation; 

SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, afraid of bright light; 

SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 14; XP 1,400. 

Wraiths (2): THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; AC 4; 

HD 5+3; MV 12, FI 24(B); SA Energy drain; SD Hit 
only by silver and +1 weapons (silver inflicts half dam 
age), immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based 
spells, poison, and paralyzation; SW Holy water inflicts 
2d4 damage, afraid of bright light, raise dead destroys 
(save vs. spell applies); SZ M; INT Very; AL LE; ML 15; 

XP 2,000. 


45.* Temple of Bawe 

Despite his apparent destruction, a temple dedicated to the true 
god of strife exists here. As the PCs enter this area, relay the fol 
lowing information. 


The sinister glow of a deep purple, almost black light fills 
this chamber, extinguishing your own light source as soon 
as the two come into contact; strange shadows dance across 
the walls of this elongated room. 

What seems to be an altar rests at the far northern end. 
The shrine is a simple one, consisting of a circular slab of 
pure obsidian with golden chalices and daggers arranged 
across its surface. Also upon the altar is a man dressed in the 
ceremonial robes of a high priest of Bane. He appears 
ancient, his arms and face gaunt from lack of sustenance. 
You discern the outline of a large, ghostly hand floating 
above the man, though its form is difficult to identify under 
the strange illumination. Before you can act, the man 
speaks from across the chamber. 

"Come no closer unbelievers, lest the Hand of Bane 
smite you. What is it you seek at the temple to the true god 
of strife? Do you seek his true knowledge? Or do you wish to 
know when his worship will return to Faerun? Only those 
seeking the wisdom of the true Bane may approach." 


This man is the only living ally of Stallac, besides Malakar, 
who lives in this complex. His name is Lertis the Seer, and he is a 
high priest of Bane who was brought here by Stallac after the 
Time of Troubles. Lertis is using his powers to search for any sign 
of Bane in the Realms, despite his apparent destruction. The seer 
is a disciple of the current High Imperceptor (Darkoon), and he 
may be the third-most powerful worshiper of Bane in Faerun next 
to the current High Imperceptor and the Banelich himself. 

In addition to having once been a high priest of the god of 
strife, Lertis possesses powerful wild psionic powers that he has 
developed over the years. The high priest uses these powers to 
search through the Realms in an astral form, looking for any sign 
of the god of strife's return. This temple was created by Stallac and 
Lertis, and its dedication offers no power to Cyric the False One. 

Lertis's devotion to the return of Bane is fanatical to the point 
of suicide. The priest seldom eats, using his mind over body powers 
to sustain him for extended periods of time while his spirit travels 
through the Realms in search of his lord. As Lertis lies in his 
psionic trance, he is guarded by a holy hand of Bane, a rare and 
powerful magical item used to guard temples devoted to Bane. 

The holy hand was created by Stallac specifically for the pur 
pose of guarding Lertis from intruders who might disturb his 
work. The hand is carved from a block of solid obsidian, stands 

4k 



43 















over 6 feet in height, and floats motionlessly over Lertis until he 
is somehow threatened. The holy hand can sense those of good 
alignment, as well as undead created by Cyric, and instantly 
moves to destroy them unless ordered otherwise by Lertis or 
Stallac. Furthermore, the hand does not leave Lertis unprotected 
even after the human's death. 

The hand can be struck by all forms of weapons, suffering 
normal damage. Normal fire and electricity inflict no damage 
upon it, however, and it is unaffected by magic of any kind due 
to its mystical creation. In fact, magical attacks dealing more 
than 40 points of damage in one round are absorbed by the holy 
hand; they are then released in an explosion (inflicting the same 
amount of damage) if it is destroyed. 

Magical items that come in contact with the holy hand are 
instantly drained of magic, not restorable by any means short of a 
wish spell. A dispel magic spell is also absorbed by the construct, but 
it does act as a slow spell upon it for one round. The holy hand 
attacks by either striking its victim (4d6 damage) or by grasping 
and crushing (ldl2 damage in the first round, 5d6 damage each 
round thereafter). Determine which attack it employs randomly. 

Holy Hand of Bane: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 4d6 or 
Idl2/5d6; AC 1; HD 9; hp 66; MV 15(A); SA Grasping; 

MR 100%; SZ M; INT Non; AL N; ML 20; XP 1,000. 

Lertis-High Priest of Bane, hm C15: THACO 12; 
#AT 1; Dmg See below; AC 10; hp 34; MV 12; SA 
Psionic blast; SZ M; AL LE; ML 20; XP 6,000. 

S 13, D 14, C 16, I 17, W 18, Ch 8. 

Personality: Suicidal, obsessive, devoted. 

Spells: None. 

Psionics: Devotions-Astral projection, dream travel, 
mind over body, psionic blast. 

PSPs: 100 

Lertis defends himself with a psionic blast if attacked, but he 
really wants nothing except to be left alone so he can search for 
his master. Without the hand to protect him, the high priest 
would be an easy kill. Therefore, attacking and killing Lertis in 
cold blood, even though he is a follower of Bane, may conflict 
with the dictates of good alignments. 

Lertis is happy to talk to the PCs about what he terms "the 
second coming of Bane," stating he has had dreams that tell him 
the true god of strife is not dead. If it is apparent that the party 
wishes nothing but the priest's destruction, he orders the holy 
hand to attack while he uses his psionic blast - all the while not 
moving from his seat on the altar. 

Resting on the altar beside Lertis is a gold and platinum cere 
monial set dedicated to sacred rituals to Bane. The set is worth 
5,000 gold pieces, but selling such items will attract the atten 
tion of Cyric's clergy, and they may conclude that the PCs are 
Banites. 


44- * L&vCVis's Chamber. 

This room used to be Lertis's private chamber, but the high priest 
spends literally all of his time in area 43, searching for his absent 
master. A small table, one chair, a simple bed, and a chest lie in 

this room, and the chest is filled with nothing but raiment used in 

services to Bane. The priest has eschewed personal possessions 
until his master is restored to a proper place among the gods. 

45- 48-- ExcavaOows 

These four chambers were under construction when the forces 
of Chrinson first appeared in the complex. Work on these areas 
has been postponed until after Cyric's burnbones is dealt with. 
Each chamber consists of rough-cut rock and gravel, and the fol 
lowing unique features are represented in each cavern. 

45: Ore Cart 

An empty ore cart lies on its side in the northwest comer. It is 

constructed of steel and iron, and was used to haul rock to area 9 

for disposal. 

46: Narrow Passage 

The tunnel to this chamber is extremely narrow, just 2 feet wide 
at the slimmest point. The DM must decide whether any given 
PC can fit through this opening. In all likelihood, a person must 
shed any armor and adventuring gear to slide through. 

If and when the chamber is reached, the characters there dis 
cover the beginnings of an excavation site containing small 
deposits of emeralds. The emeralds are rough and uncut, worth 
no more than 3d6 gold pieces per chunk. PCs can pick up 
3d8+3 pieces from the floor of the chamber. If they decide to 
begin extensive digging, the noise attracts a wraith on patrol in 
2d4 rounds. If digging continues, roll for random encounters 
twice as often as normal. Mining with normal tools (from area 
37) produces lOdlO stones per turn, up to a total of 12,000 gold 
pieces worth of raw emeralds before the vein goes dry. (Their 
value can triple if the stones are finished.) 

Note that digging in a southward direction can put the party 
in area 10. 

Wraith: THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg ld6; AC 4; HD 5+3; 
hp 36; MV 12, FI 24(B); SA Energy drain; SD Hit only by 
silver and +1 weapons (silver inflicts half damage), 
immune to sleep, charm, hold, death, cold-based spells, poi 
son, and paralyzation; SW Holy water inflicts 2d4 damage, 
afraid of bright light, raise dead destroys (save vs. spell 
applies); SZ M; INT Very; AL LE; ML 15; XP 2,000. 

47: Dead Cleric 

A trail of blood runs from Stallac's side of Area 25 to this dead 
end chamber. A cleric of Cyric, hoping to prove his fealty to 














Chrinson, leaped through the blade barrier in an attempt to get 
behind enemy lines. Unfortunately, the cleric was mortally 
wounded by the magical barrier and crawled into this dead end 
to die. Nearly everything on the cleric's body has been shredded 
to pieces, with the exception of his holy symbol, which survived 
because the foolish priest was grasping it when he jumped 
through the barrier. 

48: Construction Nearly Finished 

This chamber had the most work completed in it before the 
minions of Chrinson attacked. Its walls are nearly smoothed 
over, and its floor is level. The chamber is unadorned and is 
currently empty. 

4 9: Waizizioizs of Bawe 

This hallway is home to the 10 greatest followers of Bane 
who were not priests, each of whom struck fear into the 
hearts of unbelievers. (The PCs have already met the greatest 
of these warriors: the warrior skeleton at either area 4 or 34.) 
As a reward for their vigilance and conviction in life, Bane 
has rewarded the warriors in death by giving each of them 
supernatural powers. These warriors stand here in their 
respective alcoves, awaiting the command of Bane or Stallac 
Benadi to once again unleash their power and prowess upon 
the Realms. 

Warrior Skeletons (9): THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 
ld8+6 (long sword); AC 2 (plate mail); HD 9+5; hp 70, 
65,64,58,52,46,46,40,36; MV 6; SA +3 attack bonus, 
creatures with less than 5 HD flee at first sight; SD 
Affected only by magical weapons, not controlled by 
magical circlets; MR 90%; SZ M; INT Exceptional; AL 
LE; ML 20; XP 4,000. 

The warriors of Bane do not attack the party unless they are 
assaulted first or are ordered by Stallac to kill the PCs. The war 
riors also take orders from Malakar, but only after confirmation 
from Stallac. These monsters have no golden circlets to control 
them, as they were created by divine power before Bane's 
demise (as was the warrior skeleton in area 34). As a sign of 
their status as Bane's divine creations, each of them is wreathed 
in a showy display of flickering flames, similar to the warrior 
skeleton found at location 4, that emit no heat and cause no 
flame damage to either living beings or to objects. The flames 
look imposing, though. 

5 O: StaLLac the BaweDcb 

This grand chamber is the main audience hall of Stallac 
Benadi, first High Imperceptor of Bane. When the PCs come 
into view of the chamber, read them the following text. 



Stallac Benadi, first High Imperceptor of Bane, shrugs off 
puny attempts to forcibly reject his bargain. 




45 




























The wide corridor you have been following ends in a grand 
chamber, adorned with massive pillars carved of solid obsid 
ian. The room itself is bathed in a low luminescence with 
no apparent source. 

Across the considerable distance of the chamber lies a 
grand throne of gold, jet, and silver, and upon it sits a skele 
tal creature garnished in the ancient ceremonial raiment of 
a high priest of Bane. Its bony hand rises in greeting. 

"Greetings to you brave ones," croaks the thing in an 
inhuman voice. "I am Stallac Benadi, first High Imper- 
ceptor of Bane. You take great risk at invading my home, 
and I believe an explanation is required. Make no mistake, 
your lives do depend on it. Speak now or feel the wrath of 
the true god of strife!" 


The tone of the PCs' meeting with Stallac depends on events 
that occurred throughout the course of the adventure. In the 
event the PCs have come before Stallac in good (or neutral) 
faith, seeking Albruin or treasure, the Banelich promises to turn 
over the sword or otherwise reward them with gold if they agree 
to first destroy Chrinson of the Blazing Sun. If the party has 
already killed Cyric's creation, Stallac gives them the sword, but 
only if they submit to a dark promise spell (see the "New Spells" 
appendix of the Campaign Book). 

Stallac has no real reason to destroy the party unless they 
give him one; he require the dark promise of the party because 
the last thing the lich-priest needs is a host of Zhentilar troops 
and Zhentarim wizards flooding his complex in search of magic 
and gold. If the party refuses to submit to Stallac's wishes, he 
attempts to destroy them in order to ensure his privacy. 

If the PC's sole reason for coming here is to destroy the 
Banelich, they are in for a terrible battle. The undead of the 
lich-priest are but a thought command way, with the Warriors 
of Bane being the closest and the most deadly. Furthermore, 
Stallac is not careless, and he will flee a battle that goes 
against him. He will flee to area 52, to guard his phylactery, 
and may take it to area 43 if the holy hand of Bane has not 
been destroyed. 

Whatever the reason for the PC's appearance before Stallac, 
they will be hard pressed to defeat the Banelich. As with all 
worshipers of Bane, Stallac is cruel and merciless to his enemies, 
though he rewards his faithful (but only so much as suits his 
needs). The lich-priest has no qualms about slaying the party 
and changing them into undead to ensure their silence. 

51* STaU-Ac's HoAizd> 


If the PCs defeat Stallac and his forces, then search for and 
find the secret door near his throne, they come upon the 
Banelich's personal wealth, earmarked to advance the church 


upon the Second Coming of Bane. Stacked in chests along the 
north wall is the following treasure: 19,043 gp, 4,445 ep, 997 
pp, and 155 assorted gems worth Idl00x2 gold pieces each. 
One chest contains the following magical items: 20 potions of 
healing, three potions of fire resistance, five vials of oil of impact, a 
staff of command with 9 charges, a book of vile darkness, a talis 
man of ultimate evil, a robe of scintillating colors, and two maces of 
darkness (see the "Magical Items" appendix of the Campaign 
Book). 

52: Life Forcc 

This chamber contains Stallac's phylactery, which houses his 
mortal life force. If the phylactery is destroyed, so is the 
Banelich. The secret door to this chamber can be found only 
through magical means, excluding detect magic. If the door is 
somehow opened, all who pass through the door are subject to 
a destruction spell (the reverse of resurrection). 

There is no way for the PCs to teleport into or out of this 
room, and misfired teleport and other transportation-type 
spells do not deposit travelers here. The room cannot be 
entered by ethereal or astral means, and the door opens only 
with a command word that is known to only the Banelich. 
Stallac may or may not have retrieved his phylactery and fled 
the area, or he may make his last stand here, depending upon 
the DM's whim. 

CoKtdLusios) 

T here are several possible conclusions to this adventure, 
many of them not pleasant for the PCs. Stallac does not 
allow the party to loot his complex or leave to tell others about 
who he is and where he can be found. The Banelich might be 
willing to let the PCs return to the surface in order to heal 
themselves or resupply early in the adventure, but as the PCs 
leam the scope of what is actually occurring, he is increasingly 
reluctant to let them go. 

In addition to the experience points awarded for killing mon 
sters, the DM can hand out the following experience points for 
each PC involved: 


• Rescuing Frel Drillysa from the complex: 1,000 XP. 

• Retrieving Albruin from Malakar and returning it to Cormyr: 
700 XP. 


Discovering the ancient runes and showing them to a Zhent 
sage: 1,000 XP. 

Putting Cerchan the wight (area 19) out of his misery and 
returning his remains to a church of the Morninglord for a 
proper Lathanderite burial: 500 XP. 

Driving the followers of Cyric from the dungeon: 1,500 XP. 
Eradicating Stallac and all of his minions: 2,000 XP. 


46 









Buying Time 


Ye can tell much about a parent by looking at the offspring. 


-Elminster of Shadowdale 


his adventure takes place around the remains of the destroyed Zhentil Keep in 
the old Keep's Foreign Quarter, as well as its underground environs. The sce 
nario is designed for six to eight PCs at the 7th to 10th level of experience. A 
cleric of a good deity in the party is highly recommended, and a paladin would 
certainly be a great help as well. 

Although the adventure is set in the month of Ches (March), DMs can change this. The inten 
tion is to set up an environment where the climate and weather are cold and harsh. The year is 1369 
DR, the Year of the Gauntlet, and that should not be changed. However, if the date must be altered, 
then choose a year later than 1369; this adventure cannot happen before then. 



STory BackgRouMd 


I yachtu Xvim, also known as the Son of Bane or the Godson, is at last attempting to consolidate 
his power and to elevate his standing to that of an intermediate power. (He is presently a lesser 

power.) In order to gain such puissance, Xvim needs to devour the life force of innocent victims. A 

band of his cultists, who call themselves the Cult of the New Eyes (in honor of the glowing-eyes 
symbol of Xvim), have taken residence in what remains of Zhentil Keep. From there they have 
launched a campaign of kidnapping around the southwest coast of the Moonsea and down into the 
Dalelands. 

Many local lords and members of the gentry whose sons and daughters have been snatched are 
desperate for news or clues for ways to get them back. Indeed, it is such a group of nobles that the 
PCs first encounter on the road to the Keep. The PCs receive their present quest from those nobles, 
who will gladly pay the PCs for their troubles. 

Meanwhile, Xvim's cult has gained prominence among Zhentil Keep's citizens by loudly pro 
claiming that Cyric was powerless to stop the city's destruction, and that Bane-had he not been 
slain (and indeed if he has been slain)-would have not let things get this bad. Filling the void left 

by Bane is a task for Xvim, the Cult argues, and he needs all the worshipers he can get in order to 

grow strong, overthrow Cyric, and restore Zhentil Keep to its proper glory. These arguments are quite 
persuasive, and the Cult's membership grows larger each day, much to the consternation of the sur 
viving clergy of Cyric. 


A Noble CalDwg 


egin the adventure by directing the party onto the Bowshaft Way, between Hillsfar and the 
ruins of Yulash. When this condition has been met, read the following boxed text. 


It is early in the month of Ches, and spring struggles to escape the frosty grip of aging winter 
upon the Moonsea coast. As you walk west along the Bowshaft Way, Hillsfar lies behind you, 
Yulash lurks ahead, and the great forest of Cormanthor towers to your left. 

It would be nice to get a straight answer from someone about what goes on in these parts. 
For that matter, it would be good to sink your weapons and spells into a tangible foe, collect a 
nice reward, and spend it in a comfortable inn with hot food instead of trail rations, and a 
warm soft bed instead of the cold hard ground. 


j^= 




m 


' <£><£>] 


47 















As you round a small bend in the road, your ears pick up 
the sound of pleading voices, answered by harsh words. 
Ahead, you spy the source of the commotion. They do not 
yet see you, so you can watch them at your leisure at a dis 
tance of about six-score paces. The pleading folk are a half- 
dozen men of middle and advanced ages, who wear warm 
finery and ride well-appointed horses. The oppressors 
around them appear to be a gang of a dozen mounted war 
riors, dressed in battered chain and wearing the colors of 
Zhentil Keep. 

There seems to be something odd about the Zhent sol 
diers. Their entire bearing seems to be of warriors who no 
longer have direction or leadership. Discipline appears to 
have broken down. 

One of the older rich men is slapped across the face with 
the back of a chain mail gauntlet, splitting open his cheek 
and knocking him from his saddle while the other Zhenti- 
lar-if that is indeed who they are-laugh. 


The highwaymen are a dozen experienced Zhentilar who 
have fled the destruction of Zhentil Keep and have taken up the 
lives of independent raiders. They have come upon a group of 
noblemen who are searching for their lost family members. 
Their leader-the man who struck the elder noble-is named 
Alamar Dren. 

Zhentilar Raiders, hm F5 (11): THACO 16; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8 (long sword) or ld4 (light quarrel); AC 4 (chain 
mail and shield); hp 30 ea.; MV 9 (24 on horseback); SZ 
M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 12; XP 270. 

Personality: Rude, mercenary, greedy. 

Alamar Dren, hm F7: THACO 14; #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld8+3 (long sword +2) or ld4 (light quarrel); AC 1 (chain 
mail +2 and shield); hp 41; MV 12 (24 on horseback); SZ 
M (6' tall); AL LE; ML 12; XP 975; MI Potion of healing, 
cloak of elvenkind. 

S 16, D 15, C 16, I 12, W 11, Ch 13. 

Personality: Bullying, ambitious, coarse. 

The raiders are riding light war horses. They each have a light 
crossbow with 24 quarrels and 2 gp, 4 sp, and 5 cp. Alamar Dren is 
also riding a light war horse and has a light crossbow with 24 quar 
rels. His purse contains 48 gp, 64 sp, and a small topaz worth 50 gp. 
Alamar also has a map of the southern portion of Zhentil Keep 
(see the player's map of Zhentil Keep on page 51), a small piece of 
wood with a rune carved upon it (a pass that readily allows the 
bearer into the city's remains), and a hasty note containing the 
words "Thumb and Pinky." Anyone who makes a successful Local 
History proficiency check recalls that, in Zhentil Keep and its 


environs, the hand held palm 
upward with the thumb and 
pinky touching together is an 
obscene gesture. 

Alamar is a shrewd, griz 
zled old veteran who will 
not hesitate to let his com 
rades die for him while he 
makes a getaway. In fact, 

DMs should do whatever 
they can within the bounds 
of fairness to let Alamar get 
away if and when the 
heroes leap to the rescue, 
perhaps to become a recurring villain for the PCs. 

The raiders fight ferociously, but surrender if they fail morale 
checks. What follows below are questions that PCs are likely to 
ask the soldiers, and the answers to those questions. 

Q: Who are you? 

A: We be Zhentilar, soldiers from Zhentil Keep. We've left 
that gods-forsaken place and are on our own now. We want 
nothing more to do with that place. 

Q: Why have you left? 

A: Zhentil Keep's been destroyed by angry gods. All that's 
left of the main city is ruins and fools who refuse to leave. Even 
now the entire place is surrounded by giants and monstrous 
humanoids, laying siege to it. Only the southern section of the 
city, 'cross the Tesh, is still intact. 

Q: What of Cyric? 

A: Ha! If Cyric was as powerful as he said, then the Keep 
wouldn't have been consumed by god-fire and wouldn't have all 
them doggone giants and dragons knocking at the walls. Didn't I 
mention there's dragons there? Musta slipped me mind. 

Q: What does this piece of wood signify? 

A: That's a pass to get into the southern section of the city, the 
only part that's left. As ye can imagine, security is a wee bit tight. 

Q: What's this "Thumb and Pinky?" 

A: Ah, that be a reference to the Defiant Gesture, an inn in 
the southern section, run by one of our old mates. Bit pricey, but 
still one of the better places: lotsa contacts, good food, stout 
locks on the bedroom doors. And he'll serve anyone -he don't 
care who you are so long as your gold has the right bite. 

Q: What's all this about the Keep's southern section? 

A: Pah! Tourists! You know nothing of this area, do you? 



Alamar Dren 




48 

















Before all this mess hit us, Zhentil Keep was split in two by the 
River Tesh. The larger, main section lay north of the river, while 
the smaller, southern section was connected by a series of 
bridges 'cross the river. The southern section was called the 
Foreign Quarter, as the lords of the Keep wanted to keep all the 
foreigners stuck in one section, where we could keep an eye on 
'em. Funny how that's the only part of the city that wasn't 
ruined! Right now, that quarter is Zhentil Keep. 

Q: What are you doing now? 

A: We be on our own, seeking fortune and taking it as we see 
fit. The rest of the Zhentilar, the Black Network, and the god 
his-self can go hang for all we care! 


know any Harpers and are loathe to ask their help. Hence, 
we've taken to the roads, my fellow bereaved fathers and I, to 
seek help. We mistook those brigands for mercenary adven 
turers. They refused our offer, but decided they wanted our 
money anyway. Then ye came along, and here we all are." 

Keris clasps his hands in supplication. "Please! We're 
desperate! We need help! Would ye consider going to 
what's left of Zhentil Keep and rescuing our kinfolk?" 

Another noble pipes up: "Or at least, if they're dead, per 
haps fetch back the bodies, or some sign of their fate?" 

"Aye," an older man nods. "The worst of this is not 
knowing what's happened to them." 


Q: Are the Zhentarim gone? 

A: HA! The Keep may be gone, but the Network lives on! 
And, for all we know, our Zhentilar comrades live on as well. 
But now they can live on without our help, thank ye very much! 

If the PCs want the Zhentilar taken into custody, the noble 
men promise to deliver them into the hands of the law in 
Shadowdale. They have enough rope with them to tie up the 
entire band of thieves, and some of them-especially the man 
who was struck across the face-are pleased to take charge of 
them and see that they get their just desserts. 

The rescued nobles overflow with gratitude, praising the 
fighting prowess of their rescuers. The group of nobles rewards 
each of the PCs with a small gem (25 gp value). Then, after 
they have convinced the heroes of their sincere admiration, 
their leader, a human man named Keris Furl, gives each PC a 
500-gp platinum trade bar as a reward. 

As he does this with a flourish of gracious words, the other 
nobles huddle together in earnest discussion. Once the last PC has 
been given a trade bar, the cluster of nobles whispers something to 
Keris, pointing at the PCs. Keris nods and addresses the PCs. 


"As I have said, my associates and I are grateful for ye saving 
our lives. Your prowess with spell and sword is indisputable, 
in light of the job ye did on the raiders. I only wish we had 
the likes of your company in our desperate search. 

"See, in the past several tendays there have been a rash 
of disappearances in Voonlar, Hillsfar, and the northern 
Dalelands. (We ourselves hail from the latter.) It seems that 
our loved ones, ranging in ages from fifteen to the late twen 
ties-girls more often than boys-have been kidnapped! 

"We've consulted a few holy clerics who augur, and have 
learned the victims have been taken north to Zhentil Keep, 
or what's left of it. We've tried to hire the services of adven 
turing guilds, but none are interested. Further, we don't 



If there are lawful good members in the party, a reward for 
this mission should not be necessary, but Keris and his cohorts 
will pay each PC 2,000 gp for the rescue or for solid proof of 
their relatives' fates. 

Assuming the PCs accept the quest, the nobles thank them 
profusely and head south with the captive Zhentilar, explaining 
that they will proceed to Shadowdale and take rooms at the Old 
Skull Inn. This is the closest settlement where they can be 
assured of minimal interference by the Zhentarim, since the 
closer cities of Voonlar, Yulash, and Teshwave all harbor some 
noticeable measure of Zhentish influence. 

Any PC who accepts the terms is given a potion of extra-heal 
ing. In addition, the nobles offer the party the following items, to 
be used as they see fit: a figurine of wondrous power (onyx dog), a 
scarab of protection, a potion of water breathing, two exilirs of health, 
a ring of feather fulling, and a ring of mind shielding, and a scroll of 
protection from undead. 

Rutotoitog 
the GauNTLeT 

s the PCs approach the Keep, they must contend with a 
small mob of invaders that is part of the siege force men 
tioned by the Zhentilar raiders. Even though the assault focuses 
primarily on the much larger, northern section of the city, a few 
isolated patrols have been dispatched to watch and hold the 
southern entries until the Keep falls once and for all, and to pro 
vide a diversionary distraction when the northern forces plan to 
mount an attack. 


Zhentil Keep looms on the horizon before you. Even from a 

distance to is is easy to see that the city is split into two section 
by the river: a large section north of the River Tesh, and a 
much smaller southern section. Both are fortified against 




49 
















The party must face a gauntlet to enter Zhentil Keep: a white dragon, two frost giants, and gnolls (not 
shown). 


The frost giants and the white dragon are arguing over who 
gets the shattered wagon and the two freshly killed draft hors 
es-all that remains of a caravan they Intercepted. The gnolls 
want to see a fight and are jeering at both antagonists. Beryeya, 
the female white dragon, intends to get as much fresh meat and 
loot as possible. 

These creatures are part of a small detachment of the invad 
ing armies that has hunkered down for a siege. They have set up 
a checkpomt of sorts at this point. The southern-based forces are 
much less active in the siege, however, and are less vigilant. The 
PCs may attempt to sneak by the hostiles, but unless they all 
have means to remain unseen and unheard, they will almost 
assuredly be spotted, especially by the ever-darting eyes of the 
gnolls. Luckily, almost any diversion can draw off virtually the 


You figure that it would take two full minutes at a full 
run to reach that gate into the city: a pair of huge iron doors 
that are sealed. Twin towers flank the gates, and numerous 
torches and watchfires burn from the parapets and light the 
arrow slits. There lies your shelter and goal. Now, how to 
get there? 


attack with heavy walls-or at least, both were walled at 
one point. Fitful flames and drifts of smoke still rise from the 
northern Keep, and many portions of its walls have buckled 
under the onslaught of ruthless assailants. The bridges over 
the River Tesh, connecting the two parts of the Keep, have 
been blown up-probably saving the southern section from 
the brunt of the assault. 

The land surrounding the southern Keep is hilly and over 
grown, offering great cover until you come within a quarter 
mile of the gates, but the last several hundred yards flatten out 
and break free of the foliage. At the final crest of a hill that 
offers a secure vantage point, you look upon the only function 
ing gate in the southern district (on the eastern half of its 
southern wall). Between you and that gate lies a contingent of 
the siege force: A pair of giants with white skin and blue hair, 
clad in furs, brandish impossibly huge battle axes as they roar 
and snarl at a white dragon. Lying on the ground between 
them is a shattered wagon and the carcasses of two horses. 
Nearby, a band of gnolls jumps up and down and growls excit 
edly, seemingly egging on the argument. A small encampment, 
complete with cookfires and cheap hide tents, lies to the left. 


50 



































whole siege force. While the frost giants will rush to see whatev 
er distraction the PCs have created, the white dragon will 
snatch the wagon and one horse, and fly away. Half the gnolls 
will follow the giants while the other half stays on guard. The 
forces will investigate the source of the diversion for ld6+4 
rounds before returning. The DM should describe (or chart) 
enough irregularities in the surrounding terrain to lure the mon 
sters out of sight of the Keep, provided the PCs ask about it. 

Note that these forces will not parlay with the PCs. They will 
attack ferociously, and after half the party is killed, the monsters 
will call for surrender each round (unless the battle is a close 
one). Half of any PC captives will be taken back to the white 
dragon's lair as fresh meat, and the remaining PCs will become 
prisoners of the frost giants. 

Yotruk and Fentruk, Frost Giants (2): THACO 7; 
#AT 1; Dmg 2d8+9 (giant battle axe), ld8 (fist), (2d 10 
rock); AC 0 (chain mail, metal helm, and furs); HD 
14+ld4; hp 70, 73; MV 12; SA Hurl rocks (min. range 3 
yds, max. 200 yds); SD Immune to cold damage, 40% 
chance to catch thrown large missiles; SZ H; INT Low; 

AL CE; ML 14; XP 7,000 each. 


ing a dragon should be extremely difficult! A party of adventurers 
that challenges one of these dread monsters with a frontal 
assault should rue the day. Strategy, not steel, is in order. 

The wrecked wagon holds a half-dozen wooden security pass 
es similar to the one taken from the Zhentilar brigands (allow 
ing entry into the city); four bolts of expensive cloth worth 500 
gp each; a small coffer containing 700 pp; a ring of warmth in a 
small velvet-lined ring box; 240 small pieces of costume jewelry 
worth 5 gp each; four casks of brandy worth 30 gp each; and a 
solid silver long sword +1, heavily ornamented with small gems 
and gold filigree. The sword blade glows with a pale blue light, 
making the weapon look far more powerful and impressive than 
it truly is. 

There are Zhentilar guards on the battlements of the city, but 
they do not lift a hand to help the PCs, for fear of a trick or 
sneak attack by the siege forces. 

Knock Knock 

fter the matter of getting past the giants, the dragon, and 
the gnolls is resolved and the PCs can finally approach 
the Keep itself, read the following text. 



Yotruk and Fentruk each carry a four-gallon skin of good 
wine and a pouch holding 550 gp. 

Gnolls (12): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (morning 
star); AC 5 (scale mail); HD 2; MV 9; SZ L; INT Low; AL 
CE; ML 11; XP 35. 

The gnolls wear tattered animal hides draped over their scale 
mail for warmth, and each gnoll is carrying ld4+l gp and 3d6 sp 
in a belt pouch. 

Beryeya, Adult White Dragon: THACO 11; #AT 3 
plus special; Dmg ld6+6/ld6+6/2d8+6 (claw/claw/bite); 

AC -1; HD 13; hp 78; MV 12, FI 40(C), Br 6, Sw 12; SA 
6d6+6 frost breath weapon, sleep cast at 11th level (casting 
time 1, verbal only), snatch, plummet, kick, wing buffet, 
tail slap, stall, 20-yd fear radius; SD Saves as F6, immune 
to cold, unimpeded movement on ice, gust of wind 3 
times/day; MR 10%; SZ H; INT Low; AL CE; ML 16; XP 
12 , 000 . 


It is important to consult the Monstrous Manual for full 
instructions on running a dragon. Beryeya can communicate 
with any intelligent creature, and will certainly communicate her 
strong hatred for adventurers. If she sees any, she hurls herself at 
them, screaming things like, "Sssssoo, are you ready to fight a 
dragon who issssn't cornered in her lair???" Remember that fight- 


The huge city gates before you are made of black iron, with 
streaks of rust coursing over carved reliefs of skulls and dis 
embodied hands. The towers flanking the gates stand as 
twin guardians of black granite, with a reddish glow of fire 
burning within and peeking out through their arrow slits. 

A single voice rings out, though only loud enough for 
your group to hear: "What business have ye here?" 


There are a total of 36 Zhentilar guards, 18 in each tower, 
and they are extremely suspicious of all strangers. If the PCs 
fought the siege forces and managed to overcome them, or if the 
monsters have gone out of sight in search of the PCs' distrac 
tion, the guards exchange a few words with the PCs, asking for 
names and cities of origin, then let them in. 

If the PCs attempt to gain entrance through stealth and suc 
cessfully approach the gates unnoticed, it is a bit harder to gain 
entry. The wooden token, a pass for entry into Zhentil Keep, is 
acceptable, but only one PC may use it. These Zhentilar cannot 
be bribed, so the PCs without passes have to talk their way in. As 
long as they are not hostile, almost any explanation will suffice, 
even a simple one. ("We need a place to spend the night," or 
even, "It's cold out here and we're hungry!") Any PC foolish 
enough to attempt to bully his way in, or say that they are here to 
investigate disappearances of Dalesfolk, will be turned away loudly 
and angrily, alerting the siege force to the party's presence. 


52 














Zhentilar Warriors hm & hf F3 (36): THACO 18; 
#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword), ld4 (light crossbow with 
24 quarrels each), 1 d 10 (halberd); AC 5 (chain mail); 
MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SZ M; TNT Avg; AL NE; ML 
12; XP 270. 


The warriors each have 3d6 gp, 5dl0 sp, and IdlOO cp in 
addition to their armor and weapons. 

Once inside the gates, each PC must sign a register giving his 
name and home city, plus pay a 1-gp entry tax. If anyone asks 
about the words "thumb-and-pinky," written on the parchment 
taken from the Zhentilar, the PCs are directed to the Defiant 
Gesture, an inn with a good reputation (at least by Zhent stan 
dards). If the PCs do not mention the parchment, one of the 
guards can recommend it as a place to get a bed for the night. 

Have the players roll Wisdom checks for their characters as 
soon as they depart the guard station. Tell those who succeed 
that they spot a hunched-over, shadowy figure following them. If 
the try to approach the person, she disappears into the shadows 
before they get close. This lurker is a prophet whom the PCs will 
encounter in the Prophet and Loss section (page 55). Until 
then, this old woman should increasingly appear and disappear 
everywhere the PCs look! 


AT the 

DefUwT GesTuRe 

hen the PCs reach the Defiant Gesture, read the follow 
ing aloud. 


The signboard over this three-story building depicts a human 
hand, palm upward, with its thumb and pinky tips touching. 
From within the building comes the sound of laughter and 
singing, and the smell of hot food. Inside, you stamp the slush 
off your feet and take in the scene: A large common room is 
crammed with diners, drinkers, and revelers, though there 
seems to an air of desperation amidst the patrons. 

At the bar stands a huge man who has the bearing and 
scars of a warrior. He looks a bit out of place drawing mugs 
of beer for the locals. He looks your group over, and having 
ascertained that you pose no immediate threat, gives you a 
curt nod of welcome and points his thumb at two of the 
remaining four empty tables in the common room. 


After the PCs settle in and order, the innkeeper begins to 
make his way through the room, talking with the patrons. Soon 
he passes the heroes' table and asks if they need rooms for the 


night. If the PCs strike up a conversation with him, they find out 
his story: His name is Trevis Uhl, and he used to be a Zhentilar 
warrior. When the siege first started and most of Zhentil Keep 
went up in holy fire, Trevis decided that staying to fight was suici 
dal. He did not even fear Cyric's judgment, having correctly 
guessed that the troubled god would not spend the time and/or 
energy hunting down a single Zhentilar deserter when he could 
not smite the siege armies or stop the other gods from blasting the 
Keep. Therefore, Trevis fled to the southern section of the city 
and opened the Gesture, giving the establishment an appropriate 
name. Cyric's military faithful in this portion of the city are very 
disorganized, and none of the Zhentilar soldiers recognize him. 
Trevis is quite happy just to run his inn. Perhaps, when it gets 
warmer, he may strike forth for a warmer climate. 

If asked, the retired warrior admits that he has heard stories 
of kidnapped foreigners, with some of the scuttlebutt mention 
ing that the victims have been dragged into an underground 
labyrinth. He knows nothing more than that, or at least is not 
willing to talk about it with strangers. 

Trevis Uhl, hm F9: THACO 11, 8 claymore +5; #AT 

2; Dmg 2d4+4 (claymore +3); AC 6 (necklace of protection 



Rumors are easy to find at the Defiant Gesture. 


53 






















































+3, Dex bonus); hp 80; MV 12; SZ M (5' 10" tall); AL N; 

ML 18; XP 3,000. 

S 17, C 18, D 15, 19 W 13, Ch 8. 

Personality: Friendly, rebellious, tough. 

Under his shirt, Trevis 
wears a silver necklace with 
a small shield trinket on it 
that acts as a ring of protec 
tion +3. His claymore +3 
lies under the bar, within 
easy reach. 

Rooms at the Defiant 
Gesture cost 10 gp/night, 
and there are enough rooms 
for everyone to have their 
own. Stables attached to 
the rear of the inn house 
mounts for 5 gp/night. A 
bath costs 1 gp, meals are 4 gp, and weak ale costs 5 sp. The 
prices are steep because of the difficulty of getting decent food 
into the city. 

The clientele in the Gesture is mainly comprised of fairly 
wealthy locals and a few out-of-towners -the high prices keep 
out the low-ranking Zhentilar soldier and the riff-raff. There is 
no bard to play for the crowd, so if one of the PCs is a bard, she 
or he is offered ldl00x10 gp to perform a four-hour set. 

Do not forget to tease the PCs with glimpses of the old 
prophet, peeking at them and grinning toothlessly from every 
comer of the inn. Of course, no one else notices her. . . . 

The rumors to be heard here are as follows. Pick an appropri 
ate mmor when called for, or roll ld8. 

1. "I hear the siege will be lifted when the snows melt-we've 
outlasted the invaders!" (False.) 

2. "It's said that the invaders' ranks will be reinforced, and 
they'll hit us harder in the warm weather." (True.) 

3. "A massive Zhentilar force is preparing to march from the 
Citadel of the Raven, led by Cyric's high clergy! It will 
arrive in the spring and save us." (False.) 

4. "The son of Bane is coming to claim his father's title. 
Preparations for his ascendancy are nearly complete!" 
(True.) 

5. "There have been rumblings from under the streets. And 
vagrants that sleep too near the sewer grates never wake to 
see the sun again!" (True.) 

6. "Bane's coming back, 'cause Cyric's failed in his duties to 
the city. Bane's followers are kidnapping folks everywhere, 
in order to restore their fallen god." (False; it is Xvim who 
is coming.) 


7. "There's more than sewers underground, mate. There's the 
remains of older buildings, caverns, hidden shrines to for 
bidden gods, and fabulous wealth. What, me go there? 
Nah, I enjoy living!" (True.) 

8. "A tenday ago, I coulda swore I saw some nasty wretches 
dragging some lass down to the banks of the Tesh, near the 
docks." (True.) 

There are two useful things to be found in the Gesture's com 
mon room: the first clues of where to seek the kidnap victims 
(within the rumors), and Tellurain-a drunken, larcenous, 
homicidal half-elf who happens to be one of the best guides to 
this part of the city. Tellurain can spot a newcomer a mile away, 
and he does his best to ingratiate himself into the PCs' confi 
dence. He is a street-smart, somewhat crazed, random-thinking 
individual whose skill has managed to keep him alive in this 
dangerous city. He is a good guide, but he will pilfer from the 
PCs if he thinks he can get away with it. He does not hesitate to 
kill someone who threatens him, but if he is threatened by a PC 
who seems too tough for his fighting skills, he will just as quickly 
bolt to save his own skin. 

Tellurain, hem F7/T7: THAC0 14/12, 11/9 dagger of 
venom +3; #AT 5/2; Dmg ld6+l (cutlass), ld4+l (dirk) 
ld4+4 (dagger of venom +3); AC -2 (bracers of protection 
AC 5, +3 cloak of protection, Dex bonus); hp 56; MV 12; 

SA Backstab at +4, triple damage, fights two-handed; SZ 
M (5' 8" tall); AL CN; ML 14; XP 2,000; MI Potion of 
gaseous form, potion of healing. 

S 16, D 18, C 12, I 13, W 14, Ch 11. 

Thief abilities: PP 75%, OL 57%, F/RT 65%, MS 70%, 

HS 58%, HN 25%, CW 94%, RL 35%. 

Personality: Lewd, irreverent, shrewd. 

Tellurain's pouch contains 12 pp, 23 gp, and 33 sp. Around his 
neck is a silver pendant with a pegasus pendant, worth 150 gp. 

Tellurain has heard 
about fair-faced kidnapping 
victims who have been 
smuggled into tunnels under 
the city, and he knows the 
area where the entrance is 
rumored to be. He does not 
know the exact location of 
the entrance, but he will 
not admit to that; if pressed, 
he will insist that such 
information has a price. His 
fee for helping the PCs find 
the hidden entry is 10% of 



Trevis Uhl 



Tellurain 























the reward and any loot they recover in the tunnels. He will 
even join them on their "little quest," as long as things do not 
get too rough. So long as he gets an immediate 10% cut of every 
thing they find, Tellurain will faithfully stick with the heroes 
until he is bored, driven off, or until he can profit greatly by 
turning on them. 

If the PCs do not hire Tellurain, allow them to explore the 
southern Keep as they will, be sure to represent it as the dan 
gerous place it is. Roll for a random encounter every turn, and 
insert an encounter with a dozen Zhentilar on patrol, anxious 
to break heads, if no other encounter occurs within an hour 
(six turns). 

Zhentilar Warriors hm & hf F3 (12): THACO 18; 

#AT 1; Dmg ld8 (long sword), ld4 (light crossbow with 

24 quarrels each), 1 d 10 (halberd); AC 5 (chain mail); 

MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL NE; ML 

12; XP 270. 

The warriors each have 3d6 gp, 5dl0 sp, and IdlOO cp in 
addition to their armor and weapons. 

Pnophet Loss 

I f the PCs wander aimlessly for too long, tempt them to 
chase the old prophet-let her laugh at them, appear in 
their midst for a split second, even gesture for them to follow 
her-and she will lead them to the river. 

Eventually, with or without the half-elf guide, the heroes 
must find their way to the docks. When they arrive there, read 
the following boxed text. 


This sector of the southern Keep has suffered the greatest 
degree of damage this side of the Tesh. The piers are almost 
all collapsed into the cold, dirty water, or frozen over with 
layers of grim blue ice with shadowy human silhouettes 
locked deep within. The shipping warehouses are collapsed 
as if some massive hammer beat them to the ground, and 
the goods they held have been scattered in all directions. 

In the corner of your eye you catch a motion to your 
right, where a short dead-end alley stretches into dusky 
shadows between two partially crumbled stone buildings. 
Deep within its recesses stands the old woman with her 
head bowed, mumbling under her breath. 


Allow the PCs to react. All attacks pass through her as if she 
is not real, but if they touch her without attacking, she is solid. 
When they address her in any way, she looks up at them with 
glowing eyes and says: 


"Strangers seeking innocents, heed me! I am the voice of 
Mystra. Thy quest is just, though ye know not what ye do. 
Accept no other-stray not from thy duties, lest ye con 
front your inevitable bane!" 

The old woman's knees buckle, and she falls upon them. 
"Seek thy quest where the ship sails," she croaks and sinks 
back against the wall. 


The woman falls into a stupor. She responds to a few ques 
tions, but incoherently, as she is roaring drunk. All semblance of 
glowing is gone from her eyes. In a few rounds, she passes out. 
Call for Wisdom checks from the PCs who spoke to her after the 
prophecy; those who succeed realize that her previous words 
were perfectly enunciated. 

This encounter serves three purposes: First, it allows the PCs 
to finally confront the old woman who has been shadowing 
them; second, it warns them that they should stick to their res 
cue mission, mostly because it will defeat Xvim's plans to 
become an intermediate power (which is the best they could do 
in any event), but also because attempting to defeat Xvim's 
combined forces is fairly likely to fail anyway; and third, it gives 
the PCs a hint of where to find the entrance to the sewers. Note 
also the veiled reference to Bane (and, by extension, Xvim). 

A brief search along the riverfront reveals the scene 
described in the following encounter. The rest of this adventure 
is keyed to the Sewers Under Zhentil Keep map on page 56. 

The 

SetueR SecTlow 

SI: Ftioz&bJ GbosTs 

Read the following boxed text when the PCs reach the banks of 
the Tesh River, whether or not Tellurain is with them. 


You and your comrades skirt the dock area and manage to 
find footing on the shores of the River Tesh, outside the 
walls of the southern city. The icy Tesh flows eastward, 
below the remains of the two demolished bridges whose 
ragged ends still reach out toward one another before col 
lapsing into the water. Across the river, the largest portion 
of Zhentil Keep glows sullenly with arcane fires of unknown 
origin and the fitful orange glare of smoldering buildings. 

As you explore along the south bank of the Tesh, you 
come upon the beached hulk of a sailing ship locked in ice. 
In all likelihood, this unfortunate vessel ran afoul of a white 
dragon. There are dead crewmember still in mid-climb upon 
the ship's rigging, their faces frozen in silent death screams. 


55 



















'".'ll 1 n | 


Plh*d O' l>Jp 


W'l-.li 




l*willY 




(Olwbciy 

tJ r U irt i 


Mamkvrc 

i k tham-rJ 

I*!* 


Setuens linden ZhenCfl Keep 

Osfre iquaft * 10 feet 


-L. J- l>njr 

- W- Secret door 
-{J -O^nccslcd dwr 


56 



















































































Their ice-glazed eyes stare upward, toward the position of the 
last thing they looked upon before dying in bitter-cold agony. 

The vessel itself is beached beside the sloping ridge of 
the southern shore, bow pushed up against the rocks. You 
must try to squeeze around the bow if you want to get by 
and continue eastward. 


If Tellurain is present, he says that this is the place where 
rumors claim the victims disappear. At this point, he will reluc 
tantly admit that he does not know exactly where the entrance 
is. Allow the party to search for it, and use Tellurain to discover 
it (with smug assurance that he knew where it was all along) if 
all the PCs fail. The chance of finding the hole is similar to find 
ing a concealed door. If the party simply fails to examine the 
area closely, a wisp of steam rises from the hole as they look 
around, drawing attention to the entrance. 

52: Make Your Ocukj EmT^v 

Read the following text when the entrance is discovered. 


After you push past the bow of the wreck, the first thing you 
notice is the awful stench of sewage. The second thing you 
notice is a hole that is not a manmade sewer conduit. It is 
apparent that someone, (or something) burrowed through 
the ridge side and into the sewer tunnels. Whatever did so 
was careful to do it so that no one could find the hole with 
out crawling past the frozen ship. 


There are tracks here, indicating two-way traffic. There is no 
noise save the splashing of sewage in the flow tunnels. 

S3: Room of WaRwlwg 

Proceeding east from the entrance, this outflow tunnel gives way 
to a cube-shaped room, leading to still another tunnel beyond. 
A small iron grating is set into the access to the far eastern tun 
nel. A raised walkway runs all along the walls, 4 feet wide and 2 
feet above the waterline. A winch mechanism lies on the wall to 
the right of the flow tunnel. A series of symbols that can be read 
by anyone from Zhentil Keep or anyone who makes a successful 
Local History proficiency check are carved in the wall. The sym 
bols read, "Outflow Room: Do not advance beyond this point." 

The eastern grating is easily opened with the winch. 
Anyone who walks into the eastern tunnel hears the sounds 
of flowing water. 

S4-* Royal. Flush 

In fact, the current is stronger here, and anyone who passes fur 
ther than 30 feet into the tunnel (past the "x" on the map) must 


make a successful Strength and Dexterity check or lose his or her 
footing and be swept into the Tesh River beyond. For each addi 
tional 10 feet into the tunnel, add a cumulative penalty of -1 to 
the rolls (to a maximum of -4). See the Dungeon Master 
Guide for rules on drowning and swimming in cold water. 

55: \hjTetzsecTioK) Room 

This room serves as an outflow junction. There are lots of tracks 
here, leading to and from S8. A 4-foot-wide ledge runs the 
length of the room. 

S6: Corsjcr Lair 

This room contains tunnels that head east and south. In the 
northwest comer of the chamber is a large, vile pile of sludge. Its 
odor is almost unbearable. A pack of four carrion crawlers live 
inside the pile, but they do not attack unless anyone approaches 
within 10 feet. 

Carrion Crawlers (4): THACO 17; #AT 8; Dmg ld2 
(tentacle); AC 3/7; HD 3+1; hp 16, 17, 18, 23; MV 12; 

SA Paralysis 2d6 turns (save to negate); SZ L; INT Non; 

AL N; ML 13; XP 270. 

The crawlers' only treasure is a battered, muck-encrusted staff of 
striking (12 charges) that one of them dragged back with a victim. 

57: Access ShafT 

This small alcove/walkway has a set of rusty iron rungs that lead 
up 20 feet to a grating. The grating opens into a small courtyard 
about 15 feet behind the Burst Boil, which is number 70 on the 
Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) color map. The Boil is an unre 
markable ramshackle wooden hovel, with the word "rest" 
scrawled on its front door in a number of goblinkin tongues 
(orcish, gnoll, and goblin). Anyone coming up through the grat 
ing does not see the front door, though, but the kitchen door, 
which is propped open by a small wedge of wood and emits foul 
smelling steam from the "interesting" stews being cooked inside. 
The Boil is not a place of refuge for anyone except humanoids. 
(See the "Zhentil Keep-Now" chapter of the Campaign Guide 
for a description of it.) However, its patrons generally leave non 
humanoids alone, so long as they do not try and enter the tavern. 

Next to the Burst Boil is Twilight Hall, the new temple of 
Cyric (number 61 on the color Zhentil Keep (Post-1368 DR) 
map). Any extremely large ruckus near the Boil may attract the 
unwelcome attentions of the clerics of Twilight Hall. 

58: IbjTcRsccVbjg Room 

This rectangular room is unremarkable save for a faint glow to 
the east that catches the eye. As fast as it appears, it vanishes. 
There are tunnels to the north, west, and east. 





57 


















The party meets Dirge, an eccentric but decent wizard. 


S9: f'lbJ&'ibJg a D)ng& 

When the PCs come within 50 feet of this area, they trigger a 
symbol (sleep) with a blinding flash. This is a cul-de-sac that has 
been cleaned up (and actually smells tolerable). The floor is dry, 
as the floor is raised. 

If the entire party fell asleep as a result of the magical trap, 
read the following. 


Your eyelids feel leaden, but you manage to open them, and 
are quite surprised by what you see: Even though this cham 
ber is part of the sewer system, it is bone dry, well-lit, and 
has only a slightly musty smell to it. 


If any of the PCs remains awake, read the following. 


The sudden flash makes your head spin. You feel uncon 
sciousness descend upon you, but you struggle against it and 
manage to shatter the dweomer. With a shake of your head, 
you foist off the effects of the trap. 


If the entire party fell asleep, they awaken in S9 with a 
human male standing over them. Otherwise, he pulls aside a 
black curtain, which covers the entrance of the tunnel to S9, 
and examines the party, standing (and lying) in the trap area. In 
either event, read the next passage. 


A grim-faced man, bald, with an emerald circlet on his fore 
head studies you intently. He nods to you with a small flour 
ish of his voluminous gray robes and says, "Well, you cer 
tainly do not look like Zhentarim . . . ." 


This is Dirge, a mage who voluntarily took to the sewers 
when the Keep fell. He decided that the journey out of the city 
was too hazardous for him; besides, he wanted to see the Keep 
"get what's coming to it." Dirge spends his time researching 
magic, making quiet forays to the surface to take in the latest 
news, and patiently awaits the final collapse of the Keep. 

Though a grim, serious man. Dirge is nothing if not a good 
host. As long as he is not attacked or threatened, he cheerfully 
feeds the PCs and offers them clean water with which to wash 
themselves. He also is willing to exchange spells with other 
mages. 

Having been underground for the last few months, Dirge has 
accumulated some information, which he imparts if asked: 


"There's more here than just the sewers. There are old 
buildings from centuries past. Entry to them is gained in 
the far southwestern corner of this sewer section." 

"I set up that symbol because there are critters crawling 
around in the sewers, as well as people of some sort. They 
are thieves, probably, or maybe even some sort of cult." 

"A magical item of great power lies down in the old 
buildings, or so I understand from my readings. Probably 
the last thing you'd expect to find in or under Zhentil 
Keep." 

"Good and evil don't impress me; I seek balance. What's 
happening above me doesn't concern me. It's just Zhentil 
Keep reaping what it sowed. The balance is being re 
dressed. I merely observe." 

"My spell selection doesn't include any transit spells. It's 
safer to remain here. And no, I don't wish to accompany 
you, either further underground or out of the Keep." 
"Beyond the old buried buildings are a series of natural 
caverns. There's even a passage to the Underdark." 
"There's something stirring, so close I can almost smell it 
(or is that fish?). Powerful forces are at work, and evil 
grows ever more potent. I know not if it bodes well for 
Zhentil Keep, for this is a force that feels different from 
the evil that Cyric and his cronies give off." 


58 


































































Dirge, hm W(C)16: THACO 15/13; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); 
AC -3 (robe of the archmagi, ring of protection +4, Dex bonus); hp 
65; MR 5% (robe of the archmagi); MV 12; SZ M (5' 9" tall); AL 
N; ML 18; XP 12,000; MI Ring of spell turning, gem of brightness 
(embedded in his forehead). 

S 9, C 16, D 18, I 18, W 17, Ch 14. 

Personality: Cordial, eccentric. 

Spellbook (5/5/5/5/5/3/2/1 , plus 1 conjuration/summoning 
spell per level) : 1st: Armor, burning hands, cantrip, charm per 
son, color spray, featherfall, grease, protection from good/evil, 
sleep, unseen servant; 2nd: Continual light, darkness 15' 
radius, fog cloud, glitterdust, invisibility, knock, Melf's acid 
arrow, protection from cantrips, summon swarm; 3rd: Dispel 
magic, flame arrow, haste, hold person, monster summoning I, 
sepia snake sigil, suggestion; 4th: Charm monster, Evard's 
black tentacles, fear, magic mirror, minor globe of invulnerabil 
ity, monster summoning II, polymorph others, shadow mon 
sters; 5th: Airy water, conjure elemental, dream, hold mon 
ster, Leomund's secret chest, monster summoning III, Mor- 
denkainen's faithful hound, summon shadow; 6th: Conjure 
animals, ensnarement, invisible stalker, monster summoning 
IV, permanent illusion; 7th: Control undead, Drawmij's 
instant summons, finger of death, limited wish, power word 
stun; 8th: Maze, prismatic wall, symbol. 

In addition to the items 
mentioned above, Dirge has 
his spellbooks, another dag 
ger, and a pouch with 32 pp 
and 48 gp. 

Dirge's quarters have a 
bed, shelves full of books, a 
small lab setup, a black cur 
tain that hangs in front of 
the tunnel to prevent light 
from escaping and odor 
from coming in, enough 
food for 21 meals, a barrel 
of drinking water, two bar 
rels of wine, and two lanterns. Most of the items were salvaged 
from the city above. 

Dirge can become an NPC for an extended Zhentil Keep 
campaign; he is a good source of rumors and perhaps a last ditch 
rescue, if needed. 

SIO: Drztvifog You Buggy 

This chamber appears to be situated in an older part of the 
sewer system, probably a spur that is rarely used. Large pale 
stalks of water plants sprout from the wet floor, and long 


greenish strips of some odd vegetation grow on the walls, 
looking like slimy tapestries. 


A gash in the southwestern wall is covered by one of the veg 
etation curtains, and is treated as a concealed door. The vegeta 
tion in this chamber is very wet, and thus impossible to bum 
with normal oil and fire. Moving through the curtain exposes 
each PC to a 30% possibility of having a ld6 giant centipedes 
land on him or her (as the vegetation is infested with them). 

Giant Centipedes (ld6 per Person): THACO 20; 
#AT 1; Dmg Nil; AC 9; HD 2 hp; MV 15; SA Poison 
(save at +4 or be paralyzed for 2d6 hours); SZ T, INT Non; 

AL N; ML 6; XP 35 each. 

SI 1: Access T usihJcl 

This is a sewer tunnel that connects with the rest of the Zhentil 
Keep sewer system. PCs who follow this route should be accom 
modated with an endless labyrinth, filled with wandering mon 
sters and collapsed dead-end passages. Lead them eventually 
back to the dungeon at hand. 

The Keep 

T his area is made up of the remains of old chambers and 
buildings from at least five centuries ago in Zhentil Keep's 
history; their existence is long since forgotten. 

Kir A Fuhjcrzdl RcccpTiosj 

The very air is different as you pass from the sewer into this 
ancient area. It is drier and dustier, with a hint of decay. The 
walls in this chamber are decorated with fading murals depict 
ing corpses in various stages of funeral preparation. The style 
of clothing worn by the workers must be hundreds of years 
old. The floor is covered with the remains of old ums, tables, 
and embalming equipment. Much of the junk creates some 
thing of a maze in the room. An archway leads to the east, 
and an iron door is stationed on eastern part of the south wall. 


The "maze" is populated by two dozen ghouls. They are the 
remains of two dozens workers who were sealed up in this funer 
al parlor when this section of the Keep sank into the earth. The 
workers' malevolent souls lingered on as ghouls. They crawl out 
from under tables and throwsheets, or grab at the ankles of pass 
ing PCs and bite. 

Ghouls (24): THACO 19; #AT 3; Dmg l-3/l-3/ld6 
(claw/claw/bite); AC 6; HD 2; MV 9; SA Paralyzing touch 































(2+ld6 rounds); SD Immune to sleep and charm spells; SW 
Protection from evil keeps it at bay; SZ M; INT Low; AL 
CE; ML 12; XP 175 each. 

The ghouls' nest contains a handful of gold coins (27 gp) and 
a potion of fire resistance. If the PCs were attacked by centipedes 
in room S10, the ghouls are waiting for them and gain automat 
ic surprise. 

K.2.: Sarcophagus SVoizAge 

The scent of damp, rotting wood greets you as you see 
dozens of wooden coffins and stone tomb lids sprawled out 
across this room. Many of them have gruesome visages on 
the lids, either carved in stone or painted in time-faded col 
ors. The entire sight is unsettling. An iron door lies to the 
east. 


While the DM can play upon the PCs' fears of mummies by 
describing odd, unidentifiable sounds and furtive shadows, there 
is nothing in this room. (It is probably just a scavenging rat.) 

K3: CRemaToR)um 

Two things catch your attention in this dry, warm chamber: 
rows of shelves with small, expertly carved urns, and a huge 
iron furnace in the far comer. The furnace has a small door 
with runes carved above it. 


The urns are empty and the furnace is cool to the touch. 
Inside, however, is an ensorcelled efreeti who has been locked in 
for the last seven centuries, and he is angry. Years ago, the 
Zhents summoned and imprisoned the efreeti inside the furnace 
to act as a cremator of human remains. If a PC reads the runes 
carved on the furnace's exterior and makes a proficiency check 
using Spellcraft, she or he figures out that they are part of a sum 
moning/binding spell. Their effect is to allow the efreeti to use 
any of his powers, although none of them can create any effect 
outside of the furnace, nor can the creature go back to the 
Elemental Plane of Fire. 

If anyone sticks his or her head in the furnace, the efreeti- 
who usually spends his time in gaseous form-materializes, grabs 
the PC, drags him or her into the furnace, and creates a wall of 
fire, with the intent to incinerate the victim. If the PCs attempt 
to communicate with him, the efreeti pleads to be freed. 
(Simply defacing the runes breaks the binding ward.) The 
efreeti promises wishes, riches, whatever it takes to gain compli 
ance. However, he attempts to word his promises so that he can 
break them. For example, he might say, "If you'll let me out, I'll 
be happy to grant you three magical wishes." Then, upon emerg 


ing he says, "I said I'd be happy to do it, not that I would," and 
flees back to his native plane, laughing all the way. 

Jukar the Efreeti: THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 3d8 (fist); 

AC 2; HD 10; hp 70; MV 9, FI 24; SA Produce flame or 
pyrotechnics at will, grants three wishes, and can cast 
(1/day): an illusion with audio and visual components, 
invisibility, gaseous form, detect magic, enlarge, polymorph 
self and wall of fire; SD Immune to normal fire, and -1 
penalty imposed upon each attack and damage die with 
magical fire; SZ L; INT Very; AL LE; ML 16; XP 8,000. 

A secret door lies behind a group of four shelves filled with 
urns. It has not been used in over 500 years, and opens with a 
loud creaking and scraping over stones. 

K4* ytSyeb Btessiwg 

When the PCs breach the secret door, read the following text. 


A blast of air hisses by you as the air pressure equalizes in 
this chamber; obviously it has not been opened in centuries. 
When your eyes adjust to the darkness beyond, you see a 
beautiful white bastard sword lying on a stone block. 


This is Smiter, a holy avenger sword belonging to a paladin 
who met his end in the Keep centuries ago. The Zhentarim were 
unable to destroy the weapon, so it was sealed in this chamber. 

Unfortunately, this intelligent sword has remained all too 
aware of the evil festering around it for the past half-millennium. 
It has gone insane with frustration at not being able to smite any 
evil. Having become chaotic neutral in alignment, it has lost its 
holy status and all the powers that accompany that, yet it remains 
intelligent and retains the ego it had as a result of them. 

If handled, the sword attempts to take over its wielder and 
drag him or her on a rampage, killing anything with even the 
slightest evil inclination. If blessed by a lawful good priest of at 
least 10th level before it draws a single drop of blood, it will 
regain its holy powers (when handled by a paladin, of course). 
Otherwise, it behaves as a berserker sword whenever it gains con 
trol over the person who holds it. (See the DMG concerning 
weapons with Intelligence and Ego.) Optionally, once the 
sword slays 500 Hit Dice of people and creatures (one HD for 
every year of inactivity), it "calms down" and becomes a normal 
sword +2, whereupon its intelligence fades. By then it will have 
forever lost its capacity to be a holy sword. 

In the hands of a nonpaladin, the "cured" sword functions as 
a sword +2, though it still has its Intelligence and Ego, and still 
wants to kill every evil in sight. It also wants its new owner to 
seek out a paladin and give him or her the sword. 


60 

















Smiter, former +5 holy avenger (if "cured"): INT 17 
(speech and telepathy), speaks common, frost giant, gnoll; 

AL CN (LG if cured). 

Primary Abilities: Detect evil/good 10' radius, detect 
magic 10' radius. Extraordinary Powers: Clairvoyance 90- 
yard radius, six times/day. Ego: 14. 

Another secret door, in the southeastern wing of the room, 
leads to Area K7. 

1C Sr A Na gglsig Bawe 
TbaT WonT Go Acuay 

This small, vaulted chamber has archways leading east, 
south, and west. A stifling feeling of dread creeps upon you 
as you enter. Ragged red banners with a black hand upon 
them decorate the walls. A squat altar of red marble stands 
to the north, with words scrawled in fresh blood upon the 
wall behind it: "Gone but not forgotten; now the son takes 
the gory mantle and rise to new power!" 


This chapel of Bane once served the funeral parlor's needs. 
There are permanent protection from good and protection from undead 
spells affecting the entire room. There are also clear signs that this 
place has been used very recently, if any PCs think to look for such 
signs. For example, the floor and walls are relatively free of dust. 


ers are buried in an avalanche of rocks and debris if they fail a 
surprise roll, suffering 4dl0 points of damage (save vs. paralyza- 
tion for half damage). 

A forgotten secret door lies on the south wall. It has not been 
used in centuries. 

K7: The CouvCVyxnjb 

This was a small courtyard that managed to survive the original 
structure's burial. It is fenced in by a crumbling stone wall. 
However, the southwestern comer has a secret door that leads to 
the caverns. A successful tracking proficiency check reveals 
heavy traffic coming to and going from the secret door. 

The C&verihis 

T hese natural caverns have been carved into a network 
by a group of duergar that has allied with the Cult of the 
Glowing Eyes. 

Cl: Nowe May Pass 

The secret door opens silently, revealing a rough cavern 
with a sandy floor and crystals winking from the rugged 
walls. A bronze door, set with reliefs of a black hand and a 
pair of eyes, lies to the southwest. A tunnel lies to the east. 

In the distance you hear an eerie chanting, but you cannot 
tell where it comes from because it echoes off the walls. 

More immediately, there is a group of angry-looking, 
pale dwarves in here. Judging from their reaction to your 
entrance, they seem to want your blood. 


K<S: The SbAdocus Knjouj 

This chamber was apparently some sort of receiving area 
for visitors. The rotting remains of divans, cushions, tables, 

and chairs lie jumbled about, making your light sources 
cast odd shadows on the walls. A set of iron double doors 
lie to the east. 


There is more to the shadows than just the normal darkness: 
Two dozen shadows lurk about, anxious to drain life energy, but 
they are unable to leave the room, due to the protection from 
undead spell in K5. They whisper, "Xvim, Xvim," as they attack- 
make the PCs roll successful Wisdom checks (or hear noise rolls) 
before whispering loud enough for them to understand. 

Shadows (24): THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l (chill 
ing touch); AC 7; HD 3+3; MV 12; SA Each touch drain 1 
point of Str for 2d4 turns (being drained to 0 Str means 
death); SD +1 or better weapon to hit, immune to sleep, 
charm, cold spells; SZ M; INT Low; AL CE; ML 15; XP 650. 

The double doors on the east wall used to lead outside long 
ago. Now, an open doors roll is needed to move them, and open 



More immediately, there is a group of angry-looking, 
pale dwarves in here. Judging from their reaction to your 
entrance, they seem to want your blood. 


Duergar (24): THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg ld4+l (ham 
mer), ld8 (spear); AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 1+2; 
MV 6; SA -2 penalty to opponents' surprise rolls, enlarge 
ment and invisibility at will (as lst-level wizard); SD 
Immune to poison, paralysis, illusion/phantasm spells, save 
at +4 vs. magic, surprised only on a 1; SW Daylight reduces 
Dex and attack rolls by 2, and adds 2 to opponents' saves; 
SZ S (4' tall); INT Very; AL LE; ML 13; XP 420. 

Dorvak, dm F7 (leader): THACO 14; #AT 3/2; Dmg 
ld4+4 (hammer +3); AC 4 (chain mail and shield); HD 
7; hp 42; MV 6; SA -2 penalty to opponents' surprise 
rolls, enlargement and invisibility at will (as 7th-level wiz 
ard); SD Immune to poison, paralysis, illusion/phantasm 
spells, save at +4 vs. magic, surprised only on a 1; SW 
Daylight reduces Dex and attack rolls by 2, and adds 2 to 
opponents' saves; SZ S (4' tall); INT Very; AL LE; ML 
13; XP 2,000; Ml Necklace of missiles (fireballs: one 9-HD, 
two 7-HD, two 5-HD, two 3-HD). 



61 




















Each duergar has a pouch with 4d4 gems of 25-gp value 
each. Dorvak has a pouch with four perfectly matched 500-gp 
emeralds. 

The duergar fight until they lose 50% of their number, at 
which point they attempt to retreat into the caverns through 
the bronze door, fleeing to the Underdark entry (C2). Two of 
them attempt to hold the door leading to C2 against the PCs 
while the rest run and leap over the trap pad (see below). As 
they make their escape they cry, "Enjoy the moment, top- 
worlders! The Godson is rising, and will smite you all!" 

C2: Passage To the L/wdeRdaRk 

The duergar have a trap set up in the entry to this room. A suc 
cessful find secret doors or detect traps roll reveals a small rock 
that seems loosely set into the wall, just inside the door. If pushed 
down, it clicks and deactivates the trap. (Pressing it again reacti 
vates it.) Anyone who walks on the spot marked as a trap on the 
map triggers the trap, releasing a hail of 50 poisoned darts from 
each side of the hall within 10 feet of the trip. The trap's THACO 
is 12, and each dart inflicts ld3 points of damage per hit. 
Furthermore, each hit requires a saving throw vs. poison (type E). 
Failure means death within one round, while success inflicts 20 
additional points of damage. 

This cavern's only feature is a 12-foot-wide hole that slopes 
gently down and out of sight. This is a passage to the Under 
dark, and it is where the duergar came from. There are plenty of 
human, duergar, and unidentifiable creature tracks going back 
and forth. If the PCs decide to investigate the hole, assault them 
with creatures of the Underdark living the labyrinthine tunnels 
that connect to the hole until they retreat. 

C5: Cave UoTensecTioxi 


You come upon a small cavern with an arched ceiling. 
Passages stretch off to all four cardinal points of the com 
pass. To the east, a chill wind blows the sound of fluttering 
wings and clanking metal to your ears. From the south 
comes a series of muffled sobs and whimpers. A red glow 
pours in from the north, along with the bass rhythm of 
chanting which, though unintelligible to you, makes the 
hairs on the back of your neck stand on end. 


C4: The PIT 

A small, circular dead-end cavern marks the end of this passage. 
The rocky floor has a large hole about 10 feet wide in its north 
ern portion. Above the hole, symbols are carved in the wall. 
The symbols are magical, and a read magic reveals the transla 
tion: "From this pit did the Son of Bane crawl up, to rise and 
claim his birthright." 


This is a virtually bottomless pit to the Underdark; it is now 
used as a place of special punishment. Anyone who falls in 
descends for several hours, bouncing off the walls several times, 
and immediately dies on impact when he finally reaches the 
bottom. The entire length of the pit is a dead magic area. 

More immediately, however, there is a manticore fluttering 
around the area, chained to the wall by a collar. It has enough 
room on its leash to reach any point in the chamber, as well as 
dive 40 feet down the shaft and follow a retreating party 20 feet 
down the hallway that enters this room. 

Manticore: THACO 13; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld8 
(claw/claw/bite) or Id6xld6 (tail spikes); AC 4; HD 
6+3; hp 51; MV 12, FI 18(E); SA Tail-spike projectiles 
(180-yard range) 4/day; SZ H; INT Low; AL LE; ML 15; 

XP 1,400. 

C5: DamseLs (aw£> Lads) 

)bj DisTRess 

When the party enters this room, read the following aloud: 


This large cave has about two dozen young women and a half 
dozen young men in it, all sitting obediently on the sandy 
cave floor. Their eyes betray looks of terror, resignation, and 
despair. An odor of decay and rot hangs in the air, and it 
seems unnaturally cold. There are no guards in sight, as if the 
sheer hopelessness of the situation is enough to keep the 
young people from attempting an escape. However, one young 
woman who seems a little less numb than the rest of the cap 
tives looks at you with wide eyes and gestures behind you 
enter the room. "No!" she screams. "Behind you! Unseen!" 


Four osyluth fiends are guarding the prisoners. They become 
invisible and stand behind the PCs as they enter the chamber, 
planning to surprise them. They fight to the death, and will 
attempt to gate in more baatezu if the party overwhelms them 
too quickly. 

This should be the key battle for the PCs to fight and win. If 
they heed the prophet's advice, they will gather together the 
hostages and flee. Assuming they do so, as they reach the sewer 
system again, a horrendous scream from the thwarted godson 
prompts a save vs. spell from the party members to avoid the 
effects of a fear spell. (All hostages automatically fail, which 
could lead to an interesting chase scene, spiced up with a wan 
dering monster or two.) Xvim has achieved only the status of a 
lesser power because of the loss of these sacrifices (rather than 
intermediate, which was his goal). Even so, the PCs will want to 
leave town immediately, before the god recovers sufficiently 
from his ascension ceremony and comes looking for them. 



& 



62 
















Osyluths (Lesser Baatezu) (4): THACO 15; #AT 4; 
Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8/3d4 (claw/claw/bite/sting); AC 3; HD 
5; hp 26, 28, 31, 36; MV 12; SA Can gate ldlO nup- 
peribo* (50% chance) or 1-2 osyluths (35% chance) 
1/day, 5' fear radius, poison tail requires save vs. poison to 
avoid losing ld4 points of Str for Id 10 mds, know align 
ment always active, can cast advanced illusion, animate 
dead, charm person, fly, improved phantasmal force, infravi 
sion, invisibility, suggestion, teleport without error, and wall of 
force 1/rnd at will; SD Perfect vision in darkness, half 
damage from cold and gas, immune to all fire, iron 
weapons, and poison; MR 30%; SZ L; INT Very; AL LE; 

ML 19; XP 24,000. 

*Nupperibo are described in the PLANESCAPE(tm) MONSTROUS 
Compendium Appendix and the Monstrous Compendium 
Outer Planes Appendix, but the DM can substitute ld8 black 
abishai if that resource is not available. 

There are a total of 25 young women and nine young men, 
ranging in ages from 14 to 30, in this room. All are terrified and 
utterly useless in combat. Most of them hail from the Dalelands. 

G6: The Godsow Rlslwg 


Your bodies vibrate to the sound of countless voices chanti 
ng a terrible litany. Flames from an altar at the opposite end 
of the large chamber leap and roar upward, almost touching 
the vaulted ceiling. 

This natural cavern is filled with black-robed figures 
whose dancing and swaying throw grotesque shadows across 
the walls. One figure near the altar, clad in black and green 
ceremonial garb and a gruesome fanged mask with glowing 
green eyes, seems to be the leader. 

A huge black cloud with glowing green eyes appeal's and 
hovers above the altar. Wordlessly, a score of cultists 
approach the sacrificial table, and the chanting increases. 
Suddenly, green energy arcs from each of these cultists and 
enters the cloud while they writhe and then shrivel. The 
cloud slowly coalesces into a huge, ebon-skinned man with 
glowing green eyes. Even so, the human shape shifts and 
blurs, as if not quite complete. 

The shadowy figure bellows, in a voice that echoes 
through the chamber and down the halls, "My ascendancy 
is half-achieved; the willing have given their lives! Now 
bring forth the unwilling so that I, lyachtu Xvim, Godson 
of Bane, may fully rise and take up the mantle of my 
father!" 


Xvim is calling for the kidnapped victims, who are to be 
brought in by the osyluths from C5. If the PCs did not go there 
first, the captives are herded in by the four lesser baatezu. 


There are two dozen 
robed cultists still living 
here, plus the high priest 
ess of Xvim, who turn to 
attack the intruders as 
soon as they are spotted. 
After ld4 rounds, the 20 
dead cultists arise as Bane- 
dead and join the fight. 
Fortunately for the PCs, 
Xvim himself cannot at 
tack; he requires the drain 
ing of the kidnapped vic 
tims' life forces to elevate 
him to the status of intermediate power, and he is still caught 
in mid-ritual. During the battle, he rants, roars, and calls 
down insults on the PCs while exhorting his faithful to fight 
without mercy. 

Between the baatezu and the combined forces of Xvim's 
faithful, the PCs are probably overmatched. Unless they are 
extremely effective in combat, this confrontation is likely to be 
too much to handle, and the PCs' only option is to withdraw 
and retreat-hopefully with the kidnap victims in tow. If pre 
sent, the baatezu engage the PCs directly, but the cultists tend to 
stand between the heroes and their rising god, leaving the 
escape route open. The PCs can, if they choose, herd the young 
men and women (at a maximum movement rate of 9) back to 
the surface, either fighting cultists all the way or strategically 
throwing up obstacles to give them a chance to break free. If the 
PCs are wise enough to withdraw, make their escape an exciting 
one and avoid overwhelming them with too many opponents 
having too much power. For example, the high priestess can stay 
behind to receive Xvim's orders (or his wrath). 

Angry Cultists of Xvim, hm & hf F3 (24): THACO 
18; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4 (morning stars); AC 5 (chain mail); 
MV 9 (lightly encumbered); SZ M; INT Avg; AL LE; ML 
19; XP 175. 

Banedead (20): THACO 15; #AT 2; Dmg ld6 (fangs), 

2d6 (clawed hand); AC 4; HD 6; MV 12; SA Dex drain; 

SD +1 or better weapon to hit, immune to sleep, charm, 
hold, death, illusions, cold-based spells, and poison; INT 
Avg (9); AL LE; SZ M; ML 18; XP 1,400 each. 

Xana, High Priestess of Xvim, hf P14 of Xvim* (for 
merly P14 of Bane): THACO 12/11; #AT 1; Dmg 2d4+4 
(morning star +4); AC 0 (chain mail +3, Dex bonus); hp 
75; MV 12; AL LE; SZ M (5'6" tall); ML 17; XP 12,000; 

Ml Amulet of nondetection, talisman of protection from good. 

S 15, C 15, D 16, I 13, W 17, Ch 16. 

Personality: Wicked, fanatical. 





















The Godson of Bane, Iyachtu Xvim, ascends in power thanks 
to the efforts of his cultists. 


Spells (8/8/7/5/3/2/1): Xana can cast any clerical spell 

of the DM's choice from the following spheres: Major: All, 

Combat, Divination, Necromantic, Protection; Minor: 

Charm, Elemental, Guardian, Healing, Weather. 

*Xana is a specialty priest of Xvim. See the "New Realms 

Powers" appendix of the Campaign Book for her special abilities. 

Xana also has a purse with 35 pp and a blood-red ruby 
worth 500 gp. 

If more than 50% of Xvim's followers are killed, Xana 
must make a morale check each round. When she fails the 
check, Xana flees to the surface, where she will begin to 
hatch new plots for future adventures. The remaining follow 
ers surrender immediately. 

As for Xvim, he is now a lesser power (as opposed to a 
quasi-power - see the "New Realms Powers" appendix in the 
Campaign Book), but he is weakened by the ceremony and 
delirious with his new state of being; he must take some time 
to adjust to it. With a final, earth-shaking roar of fury, he 
fades away to rest. 

Of course, if the PCs are unable to stop the draining of 
the prisoners' spirits, Xvim succeeds in becoming an interme 
diate power. In either case, however, he disappears from the 
chamber in order to have some time to "digest" his newly 
gained power, swearing vengeance upon the PCs as he fades 
away. 

CokcXusIok 

I f the PCs manage to free the prisoners, take them out of 
Zhentil Keep, and bring them to Shadowdale, the nobles 
overflow with gratitude and give each PC the promised 
2,000-gp reward. The PCs can bask in the success of their 
mission, but with an uneasy eye to the future: The rescue 
went well, but now there is a new player on the Realms' 
stage, a new deity anxious to carve out his share of wor 
shipers and power-and one who is very angry with them! 
The PCs managed to buy some time for the Realms. The 
question now is, "How much time, and how will it best be 
used?" 

Each surviving character also nets 5,000 experience 
points for the adventure. Add an 2,000 extra experience 
points to this award if none of the nobles' children died in 
the rescue attempt; add only 1,000 extra experience points if 
no more than five of the kidnap victims died in the rescue 
attempt. On the other hand, subtract 3,000 experience 
points from the final total if the PCs allowed Xvim to 
become an intermediate power. Also, award the characters 
additional experience (no more than 1,000 additional expe 
rience points) for good role-playing and problem solving. 








































1 12U XX XI 902 


.k.n iXii l.' l>: ;n"8t DlMi*** HtJftli and FOMMTICK BrAniK... • rr L i..iMwJ ir i.l,ir,rL, md k '. T^K. 

I ki I hie lope a irddrn- n 1 1 m '"nl i>> 'I K I!, Int. 
rri iSH, Brr.-. O kir'M Rnerroi I W*H Imhi-1 .K-.,',. 


Banedead 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any 

FREQUENCY: Rare 

ORGANIZATION: Pack 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Any 

None 

Average (8-10) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

2d6 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

MOVEMENT: 

12 

HIT DICE: 

6 

THACO: 

15 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Id6/2d6 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Dexterity drain 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+1 or better weapon to hit, spell 
immunities, immune to poison 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (5'+) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

2,000 


Banedead (also called the shriveled dead of Bane) are a form of 
undead that surfaced after the Time of Troubles in the Moonsea 
region, especially in and around Zhentil Keep. Created from fanati 
cal human worshipers, they appear as withered human males and 
females who have had the life sucked out of them. The malevolent 
force that now animates them manifests in their glowing red eyes. 
One of a Banedead's hands is always twisted into a hideous claw. 

Combat: Banedead attack with sharp fangs that cause ld6 points of 
damage, and one clawed hand that causes 2d6 points of damage. 
Despite the fact that Banedead have two hands, only the twisted 
one is used for attack, symbolizing the black hand of Bane. 

Banedead derive their power from the Negative Energy Plane 
and from the clerical power of the ritual that created them. The 
touch of a Banedead (bite or claw) drains 2 points of Dexterity from 
the victim. If a victim's Dexterity reaches 0, the victim is paralyzed. 
Dexterity is regained at the rate of 1 point per turn; paralysis wears 
off when the first point is regained. 

Due to their origins as fanatics, Banedead always go out of their 
way to attack priests and paladins above all others. Any attempt by 
priests or paladins to turn Banedead results in their becoming a tar 
get of choice. Banedead also seem to have a remnant memory or 
unearthly knowledge of religious symbols, and they target priests or 
paladins displaying such symbols. If there is more than one priest 
among available targets, a priest of a good-aligned deity takes prece 
dence. The only exceptions to this order of preference are priests of 
Cyric. Banedead attack priests displaying the symbol of Cyric to the 
exclusion of anyone else in a group. 

Banedead are immune to sleep, charm, and hold spells, as well as 
all illusions and poisons. They can be hit only by magical weapons of 
+1 or greater enchantment. 

Banedead retain much of their mortal cunning. They use tactics 
and teamwork, much more so than most undead. 

Banedead are turned as wraiths. Evil or neutral priests cannot 
attempt to control them, rather than turn them (except in the cir 
cumstances detailed below). 

Habita^/Society: Banedead are usually found in the service of a spe 
cialty priest of either Bane or Xvim (the alleged Godson of Bane), or 
a wizard who worships one of the above two beings. In either case. 



the master must be of at least 11th level. 

When Banedead have been found without a living master, they 
were roaming around ruins and sites consecrated to Bane or Xvim. 
Unverified reports claim that Banedead wander the ruined streets of 
Zhentil Keep, hunting down those who lost their faith in Bane dur 
ing the Time of Troubles. 

Ecology: Banedead are created by a special ritual that requires at 
least 12 worshipers (to be turned into Banedead), at least 24 living 
additional worshipers (to offer prayers), and a priest of Bane or Xvim 
of at least 12th level (to preside over the ritual). The ritual must be 
held in a place that is consecrated to either Bane or Xvim. People 
who are to become Banedead (also called the Promised Ones) must 
come forward voluntarily. Rumors of innocent folks captured by 
cultists and forcibly transformed into Banedead are patently false. 
At the end of the ritual, the new Banedead are placed under the 
control of their new master, the presiding priest. 

The control that the master has over the Banedead can be bro 
ken only by another priest successfully turning the Banedead. Once 
this is done, the priest who originally controlled the Banedead must 
try to regain control by making a turning attempt. A priest who fails 
this roll can keep trying, once per round. A priest who controls 
Banedead can maintain control over the undead or bestow the con 
trol of that particular group of undead to a wizard who worships 
Bane or Xvim. 

If a wizard loses control of Banedead, she or he would do well to 
flee. Banedead hate being subordinate to wizards, as the secular 
nature of wizardly magical power offends their fanatical leanings. 

Some scholars are still trying to discern how a new breed of 
undead could be formed by a deity who is supposed to have been 
destroyed. A few sages believe that it is not Bane at all, but rather 
Xvim, who has introduced this new horror to the Realms. These 
sages speculate that the spirits of the Promised Ones are in fact 
shunted into Xvim somehow to nourish him, building his power so 
that he can eventually fill the void left by his father's death. 


1120XXX1903 


1 


















Banelich 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: Solitary 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Any 

Nil 

Supra-genius (19-20) 

TREASURE: 

A, S, Z 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

i 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

9 

HIT DICE: 

17+ 

THACO: 

5 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ldlO 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Priest spells, hopelessness touch, coldfire 
missiles, see below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+2 magical weapon needed to hit, fear 
aura, spell immunities, immune to poi 
son, see below 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

25% 

SIZE: 

M (5 '-6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

22,000+ 1,000 per HD over 17 

When Bane, the God of Strife, 

was first establishing his church long ago, 

those who worshiped him were 

hounded to their deaths by the forces of good 


unless they gathered in significant numbers. Tired of his faithful becoming 
victims, every 50-60 years Bane chose the most powerful priest within the 
ranks of his clerics and revealed to him or her a foul rite that would transform 
the caster, through force of faith, strength of will, and Bane's divine hand, 
into a powerful, immortal form-a lich of Bane, or Banelich. 

Baneliches are gaunt, skeletal, rotting humanoid forms with black eye 
sockets in which bum red pin points of light. They dress in decaying elegant 
clerical ceremonial robes and always wear Bane's holy symbol (the black 
hand of Bane) prominently. 

Combat:: Baneliches were at least 17th-level clerics before they were trans 
formed, and several were 20th level or higher. Bane grants a Banelich's spells 
each day. The spells still require verbal and somatic components, but mater 
ial components are no longer needed. Spells cast by a Banelich take the nor 
mal amount of time to cast. Baneliches may use any magical items normally 
usable by clerics of their alignment. 

Baneliches radiate an aura of power such that any creature of fewer than 5 
Hit Dice (or less than 5th level) that sees them must flee in terror for 564 
rounds. Those with 5 or more Hit Dice (or levels) may make a saving throw 
vs. spell to avoid this effect. 

The touch of a Banelich causes ldlO points of unearthly cold damage and 
forces the victim to make a successful saving throw vs. spell as if hit with an 
motion spell, or suffer from complete hopelessness. 

Baneliches are also able to produce blue-green negative energy fire that 
inflicts 3dl0 points of freezing damage. Even beings normally immune to 
cold damage (because of their nature or a magical item or effect) suffer half 
this damage. Baneliches can throw up to two balls of this coldfire per round. 
A coldfire missile has a range of 60 yards. 

Baneliches can be hit only by magical weapons of +2 or greater enchant 
ment. These ancient creatures are also immune to the following spells and 
spell types: charm, sleep, enfeeblement, polymorph, cold, electricity, insanity, 
and death. Baneliches are immune to all types of poisons and are not affected 
in any way by sunlight. They cannot be turned while in their lairs or areas 
dedicated to the worship of Bane. When outside their lairs, they are turned 
on the Special column. Holy water from a lawful good temple of Lathander 
inflicts ldlO points of damage per vial to them; any other holy water causes 
only ld6 points of damage. 

Destruction of a Banelich is similar to that of the average lich, centering 
on the eradication of the creature's phylactery. Destroying a Banelich's phy 
lactery kills it immediately. If the phylactery is not found and the creature is 
reduced to 0 hit points, it will reform in 2dl0 days at the site of the phylac 
tery. The person who destroys a Banelich's phylactery and anyone within 10 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



feet must make a successful saving throw vs. death magic at -1 or be struck 
dead by the force of an incredible negative energy explosion generated by its 
destruction. 


Habitat/Society: In ancient times Baneliches used their remarkable powers 
to spread the word of Bane across Faerun and defend the god's faithful. They 
were supposed to serve as ultimate guardians of the faith. Many Baneliches 
were worshiped as demipowers and were referred to as the "Mouths of Bane" 
by any who came into contact with them. However, once the followers of the 
good Faerunian deities, especially Lathanderites, learned of the existence of a 
Banelich, they gathered in force to destroy it before the creature's power 
became too great. As a further problem, each Banelich considered himself or 
herself to be the natural leader of the church, and was reluctant to relinquish 
temporal power to a living High Imperceptor. This caused grave internal 
problems within the church. Consequently, Bane was not entirely satisfied 
with his Baneliches and chose not to reveal the dark ritual to any of his 
priesthood after 1010 DR. Before this date, records have revealed signs of at 
least 35 Baneliches coming into existence, and the deaths of only 10 have 
been documented. 

Ecology: As a Banelich grows older, its power increases. For every 100 years 
of existence the creature gains one level of clerical experience (in regard to 
spells), 5% greater magic resistance, and one of the special abilities detailed 
below. Other abilities may be gained after 400 years, but they have been 
undocumented by sages. 

Painwrack: Any living creature that makes eye contact with the Banelich 
suffers 2dl0 points of damage from severe, muscle-wrenching pain unless a 
successful saving throw vs. spell is made. The Banelich can uses this power 
only when it wishes. 

Voice of Maleficence: Failure of a saving throw vs. spell by a victim to 
whom the Banelich talks for one turn results in a sleepy trance wherein the 
victim reveals any secrets known to him or her. The saving throw may be 
rerolled every six turns. Each consecutive hour the Banelich talks to the vic 
tim, a + 1 penalty is applied to subsequent saving rolls. 

Grasp of Death: The touch of the Banelich kills instantly unless the target 
successfully saves vs. death magic. A person so killed can be resurrected only 
by a good priest and not by potions or magical items. The Banelich can use 
this power once a day. When it is active, a nimbus of coruscating black flame 
surrounds its hands. 


2 























Burnbones 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any land 

Very rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

High to genius (14-18) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

3 

MOVEMENT: 

12 

HIT DICE: 

10 

THACO: 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

2dl0 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Searing touch, heat aura, priest 
spells, can cast spell and attack 
simultaneously 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+2 or better magical weapon to hit, 
spell immunities, immune to poison, 
immune to fire, quarter damage from 
cold, half damage by weapon type, 
turned only by lawful good priests 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

40% 

SIZE: 

M (6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

12,000 


The early days of the Banedeath did not go well for Cyric, the (then) 
new god of the dead, and many of his fledgling clerics were slaugh 
tered at the hands of powerful Banites. Cyric soon after empowered 
select members of his clerical faithful with a portion of his power - so 
much power, in fact, that these clerics' mortal forms dissolved into 
nothing more than mere bones and the fiery power of the Dark Sun. 
These new undead, burnbones, are similar to the blazing bones found 
in the ruins of Myth Drannor in appearance, but that is where the 
similarity ends. Burnbones tend to wear the symbol of Cyric on them 
selves (as a holy symbol, for instance) as a sign of their devotion. 

Combat: A burnbones causes 2dl0 points of damage with its su 
pernatural flaming touch, affecting even creatures or magical items 
that are immune to the harmful effects of fire or magical fire. Any 
one standing within 10 feet of the creature also suffers ld3 points of 
heat damage; magical spells and items can prevent this damage. 

In addition to its fiery attack, a burnbones can cast priest spells as it did 
in life. The creature has the spellcasting abilities of a cleric of at least 12th 
level. If the cleric was of higher level in life, it still retains its level for 
spellcasting purposes after the transformation. A burnbones requires no 
verbal, somatic, or material components to cast spells; the creature simply 
points its finger, and the spell issues forth. The casting time of the spell is 
unchanged for initiative purposes, and the spell (or another that the crea 
ture chooses of the same level) returns to its memory after a 24-hour 
period. A burnbones may attack with one hand and cast a spell with 
another simultaneously. Because of the way in which a burnbones casts a 
spell, it can never be interrupted during spellcasting and lose a spell. 

A burnbones is immune to all forms of normal and magical fire, and 
takes only a quarter of the normal damage from cold-based attacks. As an 
undead creature, the burnbones is also immune to sleep, charm and other 
mind-affecting enchantments, hold spells, and all poisons. Curative spells 
that restore hit points - such as cure light wounds - have the opposite 
effect on the creature, while the reverse of these spells cures damage. 

All weapons must be of +2 enchantment or greater to have any 
chance of striking a burnbones. Because a burnbones is a skeletal 



creature, slashing and piercing weapons only inflict half damage. A 
burnbones can only be turned by a cleric or priest of a lawful good 
faith. A burnbones is turned as a ghost. Holy water obtained from a 
lawful good faith acts like strong acid against these beings, causing 
2dl0 points of damage per vial. Other holy water is ineffectual. 

Habitaty'Society: Burnbones were created from Cyric's priesthood, and 
were are chosen for their fanatical loyalty. This loyalty led quickly to a 
somewhat insane and paranoid state of mind after their transformations. 
Burnbones exist only to serve the greater glory of the Prince of Lies, 
bending to his every whim. To do otherwise causes the creatures insuf 
ferable pain and anguish. Considering the unstable nature of the god 
they serve, it is not unheard of for burnbones to be apparently working 
at cross purposes while still working under their god's direct orders. 

Cyric created nearly a two dozen of these creatures at the onset of 
the Banedeath, and their numbers were soon halved by Banites and 
the forces of good in the Heartlands. As his enemies discovered 
means by which to destroy the creatures, Cyric sent some of the 
remaining ones into hiding until needed, and created others as rein 
forcements. Cyric has created new burnbones only sporadically how 
ever, for he seems to be easily distracted, with the result that only a 
handful of burnbones are created every year. 

Ecology: A burnbones is infused with a portion of Cyric's power, 
giving Cyric complete control over it when he so wishes. All of the 
burnbones created at the time of the Banedeath were a minimum of 
12th level before their transformation. When Cyric infuses clerics of 
lesser level with power enough to increase their levels as burnbones, 
the increased power bums out their corporeal forms in a short period 
of time. The greater the difference between the cleric's original level 
and that of the enhanced burnbones, the shorter the existence of 
the burnbones. (A one-level difference will generally result in a 
creature that lasts a year. For each level greater the difference is, sub 
tract a month from the duration of the creature's existence.) Burn 
bones that are not "overcharged" last until they are destroyed. 


3 















Elemental, Nature 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Forest 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: Solitary 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Any 

NA 

Average (8-10) 

TREASURE: 

None 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

12 

HIT DICE: 

18 (140 hit points) 

THACO: 

5 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

5dl0/5dl0 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Regeneration, immune to protection 
from evil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

G (35'+) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

15,000 


The nature elemental is a being whose origins date back to the 
height of Netheril, and adventurers can find the spell to summon 
one only in libraries and tombs dating back more than 2,000 years. 
The nature elemental is composed of earth, fire, water, and air, as 
well as the force that some sages call the fifth element, spirit, or life. 
The nature elemental is one of the most powerful of elemental 
beings. 

Upon being summoned, nature elementals take on a roughly 
humanoid appearance. They are gigantic, and easily attain heights 
of 35 or more feet. They look like walking humanoids composed of 
the biosystem they are summoned in. Generally, they appear as 
earthen forms covered in sod and shrubs, with small rivulets running 
over their bodies in defiance of gravity, and small animals moving 
over them. Nature elementals do not speak and are summoned for 
one task only: to return a certain area to an uncultivated state. 
Things such as villages, buildings, and even human and humanoid 
creatures are destroyed by the elemental in the process of performing 
its duty. Even the smallest grass hut is not above the notice of the 
elemental. The only persons immune to the elemental's fury are the 
caster of the summoning spell and up to 10 people per the caster's 
level within a 100-yard-radius, designated by the summoner upon 
executing the spell. 

Unlike other elementals, nature elementals are not and cannot 
be controlled by their summoners. Their duties and the area in 
which they are to perform them are set upon their summoning. If 
the area a nature elemental is summoned into is free of signs of civi 
lization, the creature merely returns to its place of origin. Nature 
elementals are also unaffected by protection from evil spells and like 
magics intended to hold at bay extraplanar creatures. 

Combat: Fighting a nature elemental is extremely difficult. Most 
people would prefer to avoid one rather than confront it. To kill a 
nature elemental, one must deal damage in one round equal to the 
creature's total hit points; otherwise, it regenerates all damage it has 
sustained at the end of the round. If the elemental is somehow sepa 
rated from contact with its surrounding environment (including 
air), it cannot regenerate. However, the circumstances that would 
cause it to be isolated in this manner are extremely hard to generate 
(place it magically in a vacuum, tug it into wildspace or the phlogis 
ton, etc.). 



If confronted, the massive fists of the elemental strike twice per 
round for 5dl0 points of damage. The creature has the equivalent of 
titan strength (Strength 25). Magical items the creature moves 
across (not simply magical weapons used to attack it) must make a 
saving throw vs. disintegration or be restructured into the new envi 
ronment and destroyed. The elemental never tires, but will disperse 
after its 1-mile area is "renovated" or 24 hours have elapsed. 

Habitat/Society: The origins of these elementals are a mystery, 
since their exact home plane of existence is unknown. Some the 
orize that a nature elemental is actually an extremely minor avatar 
of a deity worshiped by the caster. For lack of a better explanation, 
most sages hold to this one. 

Ecology: The nature elemental actually restructures the immediate 
environment. New plants grow to a mature state in its wake almost 
immediately, animals are attracted overnight to the location, water 
sources are purified, and signs of destruction, cultivation, and civi 
lized habitation or influence disappear. 

Nature elementals are summoned by the 7th-level priest spell 
conjure nature elemental. This spell is conjuration/summoning magic 
of the elemental, plant, and summoning spheres, and is reversible. 
The reverse of this spell, dismiss nature elemental, disperses a sum 
moned nature elemental. The material components for this spell are 
burning incense, soft clay, sulfur, phosphorus, water, and sand, and a 
duly consecrated holy symbol of the deity to be invoked. The holy 
symbol is the only component to survive the spell's casting. Conjure 
nature elemental is detailed in full in the "New Spells" chapter of the 
Campaign Book in the Ruins of Zhentil Keep boxed set. 


4 














Gargoyle, Guardgoyle 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. Ail Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Guardgoyle 

Any land 

Rare 

Solitary 

Greater 

Any land 

Rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

Any 

DIET: 

Nil 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1-6 

1-6 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

4 

MOVEMENT: 

9, FI 15 (A) 

9 

HIT DICE: 

1+1 

3+1 

THAC0: 

19 

17 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

3 

3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Id3/ld3/ld4 

Id4/ld4/ld6 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Surprise, 
poison bite 

Poison bite 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Shriek, 

Shriek, 


spell immunities 

spell immunities 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

Nil 

SIZE: 

S (2' tall) 

M (4'-6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

975 

975 


Guardgoyles are created by Zhentarim wizards to guard their treasures, 
families, residences, and secret locations that the wizards hold dear. 
Guardgoyles are constructed like golems, but are much easier to fabri 
cate. Guardgoyles are only 2 feet tall (or long), carved from hard stone 
(such as granite or basalt), and formed into a modified gargoyle shape or 
that of some reptilian creature. 

Guardgoyles' relatively small size allows them to easily hide among 
wizards' possessions, sometimes masquerading as decorative statuettes or 
paperweights. These creatures may or may not possess wings, depending 
on their construction, but all have the ability to fly. 

Combat: A guardgoyle's small stature often allows it to surprise oppo 
nents, penalizing their surprise rolls by -3. Tire construct's claw and bite 
attacks cause only small amounts of damage. The real danger lies in the 
creature's poisonous bite, which requires a saving throw vs. poison at -1. 
If the saving throw is failed, the victim dies in ld4+ 1 rounds. The guard 
goyle has enough poison in its fangs for two such bites, and its owner 
must replenish the poison after its use. While deadly poison is the norm 
for the creature's fangs, any type can be applied by the owner. 

The guardgoyle can also issue an ear-piercing wail that can be heard 
for up to half a mile, alerting members of the city watch or possibly even 
setting off preset traps or spell effects. This shriek prevents any spellcast 
ing within 20 feet of the creature, which can continue the scream for up 
to 6 rounds-even when attacking. 

Because the guardgoyle is a construct and not alive, it is immune to 
all charm, hold, and mind-affecting spells, as well as all forms of poison. 
The creature takes only half damage from fire- and cold-based spells 
because of its stone form, and takes no damage from electrical attacks. 
Casting stone shape on a guardgoyle restores all damage it has suffered and 
returns it to a brand-new condition. The following spells instantly 
destroy a guardgoyle if it is made their target: earthquake, stone to flesh, 
and transmute rock to mud. It receives no saving throw. 

Habita^Society: Guardgoyles take no independent actions, existing 
only to react as commanded at a previous time by their owners. These 
creatures can recognize up to five beings, aside from their owner, whom 
they are not to attack. All others will be attacked instantly. Guardgoyles 
follow simply stated commands ("Guard this room," "Allow no one in 



but me," etc.), but they are not intelligent enough to complete compli 
cated tasks, such as delivering messages. 

To create a guardgoyle, a wizard needs a block of stone at least 4 cubic 
feet in size. This block must be molded into the desired guardgoyle shape 
with a stone shape spell. Afterward, a series of additional spells known 
only to the Zhentarim are cast over the construct to animate it and 
imbue it with its minimal intelligence. 

The cost of creating a guardgoyle ranges between 1,000 and 2,000 gold 
pieces. Most of the money goes toward selecting and quarrying the proper 
stone and purchasing the components needed to empower the construct. 

Guardgoyles usually live as long as their owners, after which time 
their animation ceases and they become merely statues. Guardgoyles 
that are sold or given away before their owners' deaths do not become 
inanimate. Instead, their lifespan becomes tied to their new owners' life. 
After 50 years, the duration of the spells that animate a guardgoyle 
expire. The guardgoyle may then be reanimated at the cost of its original 
creation and by using the same procedure that first created it. 

Ecology: Guardgoyles live only to serve their masters and have no other 
goals in life. Over the years, the creatures may require small amounts of 
repair, depending on where they are kept (indoors or outdoors). Guard 
goyles may be repaired by casting s tone shape on them. They have no 
need for food or sleep, and are constantly vigilant. If properly main 
tained, guardgoyles make simple, cheap guardians. 

Greater Guardgoyle 

A greater guardgoyle is a larger and tougher version of a normal guard 
goyle, ranging in size from 4 to 6 feet in height. Greater guardgoyles can 
not fly or surprise opponents as guardgoyles do. Their movement rate is 9. 

The construction of a greater guardgoyle requires the casting of a wish 
or limited wish spell to animate it, due to its greater mass. The cost of a 
greater guardgoyle can be as high as 10,000 gold pieces, due to the 
amount of high-quality rock needed to create it and the extra spells 
needed to animate it. Only the most powerful of mages have the ability 
to create greater guardgoyles, and few know the secret of their creation. 


5 













Golem, Magic 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Any 

FREQUENCY: 

Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Magic 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

-2 

MOVEMENT: 

18 

HIT DICE: 

8 (64 hit points) 

THACO: 

13 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

3dl0 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Absorbs magic, magical flare 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to most magic 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

100% 

SIZE: 

L (9' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

8,000 


A magic golem appears as a humanoid creature composed of iridescent 
yellow energy-pure magic. It is the unholy union of a human being and 
an area of wild magic. After the Time of Troubles, Zhentarim wizards be 
gan to catalog all of the areas of wild magic in an effort to study these 
areas more closely. During an expedition to a remote wild magic area in 
the Hordelands, an unfortunate sequence of spells cast by one Zhentarim 
wizard turned another into a being of pure magic-a combination of the 
mage and untamed magical forces. 

Combat:: Magic golems absorb all magical energy within a 20-foot radius. 
Spells are instantly absorbed as they are cast. Running spells are termi 
nated and absorbed at the end of one round, with the two exceptions 
noted below. Magical items lose one level of enchantment per round (a 
long sword +2 changes to a long sword +1), and charged magical items lose 
ld6 charges per round. Magical weapons do no damage to the creature, 
but normal weapons and those drained of all magic can hurt the golem. 

The magic golem attacks its victims with blasts of pure magical 
energy causing 3dl0 points of damage. These magical blasts have a range 
of 75 yards. The blasts ignore all magical adjustments to Armor Class. 
(Armor Class for a blast target is calculated only by armor type and Dex 
terity bonus.) However, these blasts do not penetrate an anti-magic shell 
or a prismatic sphere until such spells are absorbed by the creature. It takes 
six rounds for a magic golem to dissipate an anti-magic shell, and seven 
rounds for it to disable a prismatic sphere. 

Dispel magic has no effect on the creature, as the spell is instantly 
absorbed as it is cast. However, a limited wish will negate the creature's 
ability to absorb magic for one round per level of the caster, and a wish 
will do so for an hour. During this time the creature has no immunity to 
magic and magical effects. 

Once per day a magic golem must release a flare of magical energy 
that is a result of its link to wild magic. This flare can be used as a con 
scious attack in addition to the golem's normal attack in a round. Roll 
ldlO for the form the flare takes. All spell-like effects at at 16th level of 
ability unless otherwise noted. 


ldlO 

Result 

ldlO 

Result 

1 

As per a ivand of wonder 

6 

Wall of fire encircles golem 

2 

Magical blast (see above) 

7 

Color spray in a 360° radius 

3 

4d6 lightning bolt 

8 

Fireball centered on golem 

4 

Double-strength light spell 9 

Time stop 100' radius 

5 

Dispel magic 100' radius 

10 

Earthquake 


(r). (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



Habita^Society: The magic golem was discovered, quite by acci 
dent, by the Zhentarim. A magic golem is formed when a mage of at 
least 12th level casts detect magic, Ran/'s mnemonic enhancer, and 
anti-magic shell in that order on himself or herself while standing in 
an area of wild magic. The spells themselves must escape any ill 
effects of the wild magic area and go off as normal. The caster then 
gains the ability to transform another wizard within the wild magic 
area into a magic golem. The victim receives no saving throw, 
although magic resistance applies. The new magic golem is automat 
ically under its creator's control, and the wild magic area is then dis 
pelled (or rather, it is absorbed into the golem during its creation). 

The chances of a magic golem forming within a wild magic area 
are slim-less than 1%, given the effects of wild magic. Only three 
of these creatures are known to exist. All of them are under the con 
trol of the Zhentarim. 

Ecology: A magic golem is very stupid and easily controlled through 
force of will by any mage or wizard of 12th level or greater. If there is no 
mage of the required power to control the golem, the creature wanders 
aimlessly in search of a source of magic to absorb. If a magic golem hap 
pens to stumble upon another zone of wild magic, the creature remains 
in the area and slowly absorbs all of its wild magic effects. A wild magic 
zone is totally absorbed in from an hour to a month, depending on its 
size. When a magic golem absorbs a wild magic zone, the creature's Hit 
Dice and hit points are increased by 50%. The size of the area absorbed 
has no bearing on this increase. After this absorption process, the golem 
is uncontrollable, lashing out at all who possess or wield magic for at least 
a week before it can again be controlled by a wizard. 

The creatures need no sleep or sustenance, and as long as there is 
magic in the world they will continue to exist. It has been theorized 
that a dead magic zone, another product of the Time of Troubles, 
would instantly destroy a magic golem. The dead magic area and the 
golem would eliminate each other, leaving a zone of normal magic 
function. Since magic golems are so rare to begin with, none of the 
Zhentarim have been willing to test this theory. 


6 










Golem, Vault Guardian 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any 

Rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

18 

HIT DICE: 

8 (50 hit points) 

THAC0: 

13 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ldlO/ldlO 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Surprise 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Spell immunities, immune to fire and 


cold, partially immune to electricity, 
reduced damage by weapon type 


MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (5'-6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

8,000 


Vault guardians are simple but expensive creations of Zhentarim wiz 
ards. They are sold to lords of Zhentil Keep and beyond to guard their 
most precious treasures. Vault guardians are constructs of stone and 
metal that require incredible wealth to create, but are constantly alert 
and very effective at their job. 

Vault guardians can appear as any type of creature, from dogs to 
people (though generally they appear as statues or other humanlike 
creatures no taller than 6 feet), but they always have two appendages, 
such as hands or claws, with which to attack. 

Combat: The attack of a vault guardian is straightforward and con 
sists of two punching attacks that inflict ldlO points of damage per 
strike. What makes the vault guardian a troublesome foe are the crea 
ture's additional magical powers, which enable it to detect intruders 
and withstand magical attacks. 

The vault guardian can perform the following at will: detect magic, 
detect invisibility, and true seeing. The attacks of the guardian can reach 
into the Astral and Ethereal Planes and can injure those struck only 
by magical, silver, or iron weapons. A vault guardian takes no damage 
from normal fire, magical fire, or cold-based attacks, and electrical 
attacks cause only one-quarter damage to the construct. Charm and 
sleep spells have no effect on the vault guardian, nor do other mind- 
affecting spells or any poisons. 

Edged and piercing weapons inflict only one-quarter damage to the 
creature because of its durable construction. Blunt weapons such as 
maces and hammers do only half damage if the weapons are not 
enchanted to at least +1, but cause normal damage if so enchanted. 
The vault guardian is also extremely fast, and imposes a -3 penalty to 
all surprise rolls when defending its charges. 

Because of its construction, the vault guardian is vulnerable to 
earth magic. A rock to mud spell inflicts 2dl0 points of damage on the 
creature and stops it from moving for one round, and earthquake or 
s tone shape instantly kills the construct (no saving throw allowed). 

Habitat/Society: Vault guardians are found in treasure vaults. They 
are similar to stone or iron golems, and could be considered a combi 
nation of the two types. Vault guardians are slightly cheaper to con 
struct than stone or iron golems, but take nearly a year to fabricate 
and require additional enchantments to empower. 



Vault guardians were first created by wizards in the nation of Sem- 
bia to protect the vast riches of Sembian trading consortiums. Years 
later, Zhentarim wizards learned the process for creating them, and 
offered to create vault guardians for various lords of Zhentil Keep at 
greatly inflated prices. 

To create a vault guardian, a wizard of at least 18th level must first 
be able to cast the following spells (from memory or by scroll use) over 
the course of the creature's creation: statue, detect magic, detect invisibil 
ity, Iwste, wall of iron, fabricate, true seeing, permanency, and either wish 
or limited wish. In addition, a breastplate from a suit of plate mail of ethe 
realness must be fused into the creature, giving it the ability to strike 
those opponents that hover between planes of existence. If a wizard 
does not have access to these spells, the cost of construction of a vault 
guardian could exceed that of a stone or iron golem. 

Dozens of intricate symbols must be carved across the forehead and 
forelimbs of the vault guardian, and rubies worth at least 500 gold 
pieces each are needed for its eyes. 

During its creation, a vault guardian is given a certain key word 
that is used to control it. After creating the guardian, the wizard passes 
on this key word to the guardian's new owner so she or he may prop 
erly control the creature and instruct it to guard a certain place or 
thing. A guardian's key word can never be changed. 

By the time construction of a vault guardian is complete, the total 
cost could range between 40,000 and 70,000 gold pieces, plus any 
added costs for spells. In turn, the wizard can sell the construct for up 
to three times the cost of fabrication. Many unscrupulous wizards have 
recorded the key words of their creations, using this knowledge at a 
later date to their advantage. The guardian can understand up to 100 
command phrases in addition to its key word, and the key word must 
be spoken first when commanding it to any action. 


7 


Ecology: Vault guardians are not normal creatures, but are con 
structed through powerful spells. A vault guardian has no need to eat 
or sleep. 



















Hybsil 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any temperate forest, plains, or hills 

FREQUENCY: Rare 

ORGANIZATION: Tribe 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Day 

Omnivore 

Average to very (8-12) 

TREASURE: 

I, K 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful good 

NO. APPEARING: 

Id6(ld8x8) 

ARMOR CLASS: 

7 

MOVEMENT: 

15 

HIT DICE: 

1 

THAC0: 

19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

By weapon 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Sleep arrows 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+4 to all saving throws, immune to 
poison, limited thief abilities in for 
est terrain, continual light, ventrilo 
quism, pass without trace 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

S (3' tall) 

MORALE: 

Average (9-10) 

XP VALUE: 

420 

Leader 4th 

1,400 

Leader 5th 

2,000 

Leader 6th 

3,000 

Leader 7th 

4,000 

Guard 

975 

Ranger 

3,000 


Hybsils look like a cross between a small antelope and a pixie, 
brownie, or sprite. These antelope centaurs can be found in large 
forests or small woods across the Heartlands, and often venture into 
nearby plains or hills to hunt or forage. The color of their antelope 
body ranges from dark gray to chestnut brown, and they sometimes 
sport small spots, white tails, white or tan striping, or dark socks and 
tails. Male hybsils grow antlers and shed them seasonally. Hybsil ears 
are pointed and graceful, with a small tuft of hair on their tips. 

Hybsils are somewhat xenophobic, preferring the company of 
their own kind. They have been sighted in the Border Forest, the 
Reaching Woods, and the Trollbark Forest. 

Combat: Hybsils fight with daggers, short swords, or short bows. 
Hybsils coat their weapons with a rare plant juice blend that causes 
sleep for ld4 hours. The victim is allowed a saving throw vs. poison 
at -4 to avoid the effects. Hybsil bows have normal short bow range, 
and their arrows inflict flight arrow damage (ld6), in addition to the 
sleep effect. 

Hybsils have inherited some of the powers of their fairy cousins. 
Once per day a hybsil can use the following spell-like abilities: con 
tinual light, mirror image, pass without trace, and ventriloquism. Hybsils 
gain a +4 bonus to all saving throws and an immunity to all poisons 
due to their fey nature and an extremely high Constitution. 

Because of their familiarity with forests, hybsils have a 75% 
chance to hide in shadows and move silently when in any forest. 
They also have a 50% chance to find and remove traps or snares 
when in an arboreous environment. In addition, once a day for one 
turn, a hybsil can break into a gallop and travel at the rate of 21. 

Habitat/Society: Hybsils live together in closely knit tribes of up to 
80, but rarely less than 20, members. Young male hybsils sometimes 
break away and attempt to start their own tribe if a tribe's numbers 


), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



total more than 50. Hybsils are seminomadic and may roam over 
vast forests or plains, either in search of food or to preserve their iso 
lation from other sentient species. Because of this tendency to roam, 
most hybsil tribes live in or near large forests and grasslands. 

Male hybsil are in charge of hunting, gathering, and protecting 
the tribe from external invaders. Female hybsils rear and educate the 
young, preserve tribal lore and traditions, maintain an oral history of 
the tribal range, and care for the injured and the sick. Females can 
wield weapons as the males do when necessary, but in general do not 
do so on a day-to-day basis. Female hybsils are seldom encountered 
outside of their tribe's home camp or village unless searching for a 
stray young one or on a special quest. 

Every tribe of hybsils has a leader of 4th-7th level who is either a 
druid (60%) or a mage (40%). For every 30 or more hybsils in a 
tribe, there will be ld4 hybsils with 3 HD who are charged solely 
with guarding the tribe. A tribe of 50 or more hybsils will also have a 
mighty warrior who has 5 HD and the all skills of a 7th-level ranger. 

Ecology: Hybsils eat fruits, berries, roots, and small mammals that 
they hunt. They live for up to 50 years, and those with spellcasting 
abilities have been known to live well past 70 years of age. 

Hybsil antlers are said to have magical powers, and have fetched 
as much as 100 gold pieces from certain wizards, sages, and potion- 
ers. Since hybsils shed their antlers every year, it is not necessary to 
injure hybsils to obtain their horns. However, since hybsils do not 
like people trespassing on their territory, it is often difficult to gain 
permission to gather shed antlers, or to befriend a male hybsil and 
convince him to give one away. 


















Magedoom 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any 

Very rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Magic 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Average (8-10) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

-2 

MOVEMENT: 

Mv 18, FI 18 (C) 

HIT DICE: 

10 

THACO: 

11 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

3d8/3d8 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Temporary spellcasting drain 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

3-foot-radius anti-magic shell 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

100% 

SIZE: 

L (8' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (19-20) 

XP VALUE: 

11,000 


Non-Zhentish wizards are all viewed as a threat by Zhent wizards. 
And there are usually lots of wizards, Zhent and non-Zhent, in 
Zhentil Keep. In response to this, the most powerful wizards from 
the Keep banded together to insure their continued supremacy, and 
devised a horror that would seek out other mages and wizards and 
destroy them: the magedoom. 

A magedoom exudes a distinctive tang of ozone, like that of a 
lightning strike during a rainstorm crossed with the essence of citric 
acid. ("It's like being assaulted by something that smells like rotten 
electric grapefruit," one ill-fated mage once commented.) It resem 
bles a large, cone-shaped mound of yellow and brown sludge that 
glistens with moisture, crowned with a withered, eyeless human 
head. It sports two heavy appendages hanging from near the top of 
the mound. 

Combat: Magedooms attack by swinging their heavy clublike ap 
pendages for 3d8 hit points of damage each. They always attack wiz 
ards first, then priests, then any others. 

Their most insidious attacks can occur only against wizards. 
When a wizard spell is cast within 180 feet of a magedoom, it locks 
in on the source and begins tracking its prey. Once the magedoom 
reaches melee range, a slimy tentacle tipped with a bloodshot, with 
ered eyeball erupts from within the creature's slimy body mound and 
touches the mage on the forehead (requiring a successful attack 
roll). If it hits, the effect is similar to a level drain, but only in regard 
to what spells a wizard can cast. Thus, an llth-level wizard who was 
hit by the appendage would cast spells as a lOth-level wizard. Spells 
that are now too advanced for the wizard to cast flee the victim's 
mind. Wizards who survive this attack recover one level of spellcast 
ing ability per hour, but must relearn the spells they lost. This drain 
does not effect wizards' saving throws, THACO, or hit points. 

Magedooms are blind, tracking targets by their unerring sensitiv 
ity to magic as well as by small sensory organs in the strands of slime 
that coat their bodies and attacking appendages. As a result, they 
are immune to illusions or to spells that require the victim to have 
sight. 

Magedooms also radiate an anti-magic shell in a 3-foot radius. 
Thus, a fighter with magical armor and a flametongue sword winds up 
effectively fighting a magedoom with normal armor and a normal 
long sword. Once the items are taken out of the field, their magic 
returns. 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



When a magedoom is killed, all of the magical energy trapped 
within exits in an explosive magical wave of wild magic that be 
haves as if every being within a 15-foot radius were a wild mage who 
had evoked a wild surge (see the Tome of Magic). This effect lasts for 
five rounds; each round, roll on the Wild Surge Results table in the 
Tome of Magic for each being (except the magedoom), treating "the 
caster" in the results as the target being rolled for. Results that make 
no sense result in nothing unusual happening. (Or, the DM may 
treat every being in the 15-foot radius as the target of five successive 
discharges of a wand of wonder, one each round for five rounds.) 

Habita^Society: Magedooms are created from living wizards whose 
bodies and spirits have been transformed by a rare, forbidden spell. 
A magedoom is under the partial control of the archmage who cast 
the spell that created it. The archmage is able to order the creature 
to do certain tasks, and the magedoom has a wide breadth of discre 
tion as to how it accomplishes them. If the archmage dies, the mage 
doom becomes a rogue, and no wizard is then safe. 

Magedooms are solitary creatures. There are rumors that if two 
magedooms come within 10 feet of each other, they set up a res 
onating field that explodes in ld4 rounds, creating a 40-foot-radius 
dead magic area that lasts for a month and annihilating the crea 
tures. Some rumors further speculate that there is a tiny chance 
(1%) that, instead of a dead magic area, a sphere of annihilation is cre 
ated. 

Ecology: Magedooms were created for one reason alone: to kill 
non-Zhentish spellcasters. The goddess Mystra, the god Azuth, and 
their priesthoods loathe magedooms. High-level priests of Mystra or 
Azuth sometimes charge those who have acted against their faiths 
with a geas or a quest to destroy one of the creatures. High-level spe 
cialty priests of Azuth who serve him well are rumored to receive a 
special spell that allows them to destroy magedooms. 


9 












Mist, Scarlet Dancer 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r). (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Swamps/sewers 

Rare 

Cluster 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Semi- (2-4) 

TREASURE: 

S 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

10-100 

ARMOR CLASS: 

1 (8 after feeding) 

MOVEMENT: 

FI 24 (A) (FI 12 (B) after feeding) 

HIT DICE: 

1 per 10 present 

THACO: 

Varies by number of Hit Dice 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld3 per Hit Die 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Blood drain 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

T (2" diameter) 

MORALE: 

Champion (15-16) 

XP VALUE: 

10 dancers: 35 60 dancers: 420 

20 dancers: 65 70 dancers: 975 

30 dancers: 120 80 dancers: 1,400 

40 dancers: 175 90 dancers: 2,000 

50 dancers: 270 100 dancers: 

3,000 


Scarlet dancers are similar to crimson deaths, but are much smaller 
in size. Scarlet dancers also gather together in clusters of 10 to 100, 
unlike crimson deaths. Scarlet dancers appear as miniature versions 
of their dreaded bog cousins, but without an outward humanoid 
appearance (such as a face with the look of intelligence). Some the 
orize that these creatures are immature versions of the malevolent 
crimson death. 

These creatures have only been found within the sewers of Zhen 
til Keep, an environment that has proven to be the perfect haunt for 
scarlet dancers. They are yet another reason why the sewers of that 
city are deadly to traverse. 

Combat: Clusters of scarlet dancers can sense the presence of 
warm-blooded creatures within a 100-foot radius. The red mist that 
surrounds the creatures draws the blood from their victims, using 
tentacles of scarlet mist. The amount of blood drained depends on 
the number of dancers present -the more dancers in a cluster, the 
more blood is drained from the victim each round. For each 10 scar 
let dancers present, the creature has 1 HD (and appropriate 
THACO) and drains ld3 hit points on a successful hit. 

Because these creatures are partially mist, metal and leather 
armor do not protect an intended victim from a cluster of dancers - 
their misty tentacles permeate the cracks in the armor, seeking out 
the victim's skin. Only Dexterity adjustments and magical protec 
tion can prevent the attack of the dancers. 

Before 10 dancers (1 HD's worth) feed, they have and Armor 
Class of 1, but after draining 7 hit points of blood the dancers are 
slower and their Armor Class drops to 8. Ten scarlet dancers can 
absorb up to 14 points of blood before the cluster stops attacking to 
digest its spoils. 

Having evolved in the sewers of Zhentil Keep, scarlet dancers 
cannot stand the light of the sun. Though sunlight does no physical 
damage to them, the dancers instinctively flee from it. 

Habita^Society: Scarlet dancers live exclusively in the sewer tun 
nels below Zhentil Keep. The dancers live in clusters that float 



flying is when they have consumed their maximum daily allotment 
of blood (14 hit point's worth per 10 dancers). Then they seek an 
out-of-the-way place to rest for ld4 hours. 

Since only the foolish come down into the sewers beneath the 
city, scarlet dancers feed mostly on mice, rats, and other warm 
blooded denizens living in the bowels of Zhentil Keep. The favorite 
food of the dancers is humans, since their reproduction requires 
human blood. 

The similarities between scarlet dancers and crimson deaths are 
unnerving, especially to the lords of Zhentil Keep, who are fearful of 
a possible outbreak of crimson deaths throughout the city. In fact, 
crimson deaths and scarlet dancers are similar only in appearance 
and type of attack. The creatures are in no way biologically related. 

The shadowy forces of Zhentil Keep know the locations of five 
clusters of scarlet dancers in the city sewers. These areas have been 
marked on certain maps and have gained notoriety by word of 
mouth. However, Zhentil Keep's sewers are not the only home of the 
dancers, as many of them live in small clusters throughout the tun 
nels honeycombing the ground beneath the Keep -and their num 
bers are greatest in the deepest tunnels. 

Ecology: Scarlet dancers need small amounts of blood on a daily 
basis to survive. If a cluster goes for more than three days without 
feeding, the dancers of that cluster perish. However, since the sewers 
of Zhentil Keep are flooded with vermin and other nasty monsters, 
finding potential sources of food is seldom a problem. While scarlet 
dancers need human blood to reproduce, any kind of iron-based 
blood will suffice for nourishment. 

The dancers are neither mean nor malicious, but do what they 
need to in order to survive, as would any animal in need of food. 
The creature's origins are unknown. Some believe that they are but 
another Zhentarim experiment gone bad. The truth may lie deep 
underground beneath Zhentil Keep. 


10 
















Ondonti 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. AH Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any land 

Rare 

Tribe 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Omnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Average (8-10) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful good 

NO. APPEARING: 

10-60 

ARMOR CLASS: 

10 (6 with barkskin) 

MOVEMENT: 

12 

HIT DICE: 

1 (clerics to 7th level) 

THACO: 

19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 (see below) 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

By weapon 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Sanctuary, barkskin, tree, immune to 
charm, + 1 save vs. poison (priest spells) 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Average (8-10) 

XP VALUE: 

120 

Cleric, 1st 

175 

Cleric, 2nd 

270 

Cleric, 3rd 

420 

Cleric, 4th 

650 

Cleric, 5th 

975 

Cleric, 6th 

1,400 

Cleric, 7th 

2,000 


North of The Ride, in a secluded part of the Tortured Lands, dwells a 
race known as the ondonti, a close cousin of the ore. This race lives as 
peaceful farmers and gatherers, taking only what they need from the land 
to survive. In outward appearances, ondontis resemble ores. 

Scattered tribes of ondontis lived peaceful lives until a scouting party 
from Zhentil Keep stumbled across them in 1340 DR. Because ondontis 
live by a peaceful and collaborative philosophy, they were not prepared 
for treachery, and shortly after the initial meeting between Zhents and 
ondontis, the majority of the ondonti population, with the exception of 
one isolated tribe, was betrayed by the Zhents and kidnapped into slav 
ery. Very few ondontis have since then escaped further raids. The greedy 
lords of Zhentil Keep view ondontis as superior slaves because their 
strength and nonviolent attitude make them superbly suited to lightly 
supervised manual labor. 

Combat: Traditional ondonti culture is peaceful and contemplative. 
Most would sooner die than take another sentient creature's life, and 
they kill other creatures only as needed for food (or if the creatures are 
deemed insane or incurably diseased). However, the Zhentarim have 
brought up several young ondontis in an orcish environment, training 
them to be skilled killers (alignment LN to LE). These ondontis are still 
not as violent or abusive as ores, but a few generations of violently indoc 
trinated ondontis could bring into being a deadly race of humanoids 
under the influence of the Zhentarim. 

All ondontis can use the following spell-like abilities: sanctuary (on 
themselves) three times a day, barkskin once a day, purify food & drink 
three times a day, and tree once a week. Ondontis also gain a + 1 bonus to 
their saving throws vs. poison and are immune to charm -type spells and 
spell-like abilities. 

Adult ondontis (male and female) have Strength scores ranging from 
17 to 19 and Constitution scores from 16 to 18. Ondontis trained by the 
Zhentilar usually fight with either a bastard or two-handed sword, and 
can easily fight with either weapon and a shield. They dislike metal 



armor and don leather or studded leather when not using their natural 
barkskin ability. Since the first group of ondonti warriors is still learning 
its craft, it is uncertain how far they will progress as fighters. 

Especially wise ondontis can become clerics of up to 7th level. Spells 
memorized by ondonti clerics are almost always curative and defensive in 
nature, as harmful spells are taboo. Priest ondontis have a minimum Wis 
dom of 16. 

Habita^Society: Ondontis revere Eldath, the Goddess of Peace and 
Quiet Places, and their culture attempts to embody the pacifist teachings 
of Eldath. Ondonti oral history recounts that "the Founders" brought 30 
young ondontis to the lands they still consider theirs long ago, and laid 
down the teachings that provide the foundations of ondonti society in a 
cycle of tales called Tarek-Passar (the Way of Peace). One sage has theo 
rized that the original ondontis were in fact infant ore orphans, brought 
from their lands and taught by a reclusive group of priests of Eldath. 

Ondontis are nearly the opposite of ores: peaceful, kind, and depend 
able. To the ondontis, peace, harmony with one's environment, and a 
full family life are what is important in life. Ondonti priests are revered 
and their guidance is followed because of their majestic wisdom and close 
relationship to Eldath. 

Fourteen of the 15 ondonti tribes have been captured by raiding 
Zhentilar and taken to the Citadel of the Raven for use as slave labor and 
as breeding stock for an army of superior humanoids. The remaining 
ondonti tribe lives in extreme seclusion, employing the spells of several 
ondonti clerics to hide its members from further enslavement. It is 
rumored that a extraplanar servant sent by Eldath herself guards over her 
remaining children, while another seeks to free those who have been 
wrongly seized from their homeland. 

Ecology: Ondontis reproduce at the same rate as ores, but have attained 
a longer lifespan than ores (60 years) as a result of internal cultural har 
mony and applied curative priestly magic. The mortality rate of infant 
ondontis is nearly nonexistent, due to close monitoring of pregnant 
ondontis and infants by the priesthood. 


11 














Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


Rat, Zhentish Sewer 

(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

Subterranean 

FREQUENCY: 

Uncommon 

ORGANIZATION: 

Pack 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Night 

DIET: 

Omnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Low (5-7) 

TREASURE: 

W 

ALIGNMENT: 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

3d8 

ARMOR CLASS: 

6 

MOVEMENT: 

12, Sw 18 

HIT DICE: 

2 

THACO: 

19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld4+l 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Blood drain 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Displacement 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

10% 

SIZE: 

S (2' long) 

MORALE: 

Steady (11-12) 

XP VALUE: 

175 (mature) 


120 (ratling) 


270 (leader) 


The sewers of Zhentil Keep are the breeding ground of all sorts of 
horrors. There is perhaps no other single place in all the Realms 
where so much evil magical fallout is to be found. In this environ 
ment the Zhentish sewer rat was born. 

Zhentish sewer rats appear as large specimens of common sewer 
rats, except that their eyes glow bright yellow and their faces appear 
slightly human. Their coarse, bristly hair is glossy black, and they 
carry a smell of mildew and sewer waste. Some scholars suggest that 
these malevolent rodents even have a rudimentary language. 

Combat: Zhentish sewer rats attack in packs of no fewer than three. 
The rats make every attempt at remaining unseen if there are only 
one or two of them. Despite their abilities being far beyond those of 
a normal rat, they still find their courage only in numbers. The rats 
live and travel in packs, each led by a sewer rat with a full 8 hit 
points per Hit Die. Death of the leader necessitates a morale check 
by the remainder of the pack. 

The rats attack with large, sharp incisor teeth. If the DM rolls a 
natural 20 for a rat's attack, the rat has fastened itself onto its victim 
and inflicts an extra ld4+l points of damage from blood drain per 
round of attachment. In order to remove the rat, the victim must 
make a successful open doors roll. It takes one round to remove the 
rat, and the victim cannot do anything else that round (except per 
haps scream and thrash), although DMs may allow the victim to 
move half his or her movement rate. 

The magical nature of the rats manifests itself in the form of an 
ability similar to the effect of a cloak of displacement, in that the first 
attack on a Zhentish sewer rat always misses. 

The rats hate extremely bright light, and receive a -2 penalty to 
attacks in daylight or continual light. 

Habitat/Society: Although these rats are called sewer rats, they can 
be found any place near Zhentil Keep that has subterranean recesses 
and a large quantity of water and rotting vegetation. Swamps, marshes, 
flooded basements, even graveyards located in areas with a high water 
table or nearby water runoff are other likely habitats. These rodents 
never venture out in daylight, however, even on overcast days. 

The typical lair of a Zhentish sewer rat has 6d6 mature rats and 
50% more immature rats. Each young rat has half the Hit Dice and 



inflicts half the damage of an adult. These lairs are always in a moist, 
dark place, out of the way of traffic. Often, they contain items left 
from previous victims. 

Ecology: Zhentish sewer rats are exceedingly mean, even for rats. 
Some scholars say half jokingly that Bane did not die completely, 
that his temper found its way into the sewer rats. Zhentish sewer rats 
are never found among their lesser brethren, nor with most creatures 
that usually summon or associate with rats. In fact, Zhentish sewer 
rats find jermlaine a delicacy. 

The only beings that can deal with Zhentish sewer rats are vam 
pires, tanar'ri, and baatezu. Even then the furry beasts are difficult to 
control or organize. 

Some Moonsea-area wizards who find the prospect of using dis 
placer beast hides in the manufacture of cloaks of displacement a dan 
gerous proposition have experimented on using the furry hides of 
Zhentish sewer rats. Thus far, the only result has been wizards run 
ning around in cloaks that look like sewn-together, flattened, dried- 
out rat hides. 

However, there are whisperings that certain alchemists are work 
ing on a potion or salve that would duplicate the rats' displacement 
ability. To such people (and they are hard to find, if they even exist), 
a freshly killed sewer rat would command a price of 500 gold pieces. 
Freshly killed, in this case, is defined as dead for no longer than 48 
hours. 


12 









Render 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any 

FREQUENCY: Very rare (unique) 

ORGANIZATION: Solitary 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Any 

Carnivore 

High (14) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Chaotic evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

-3 

MOVEMENT: 

24 

HIT DICE: 

13 (104 hit points) 

THACO: 

7 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Idl0/ldl0/2dl0 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Rending, berserk fury, surprise 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Regeneration, + 1 or better weapon 
to cause normal damage, silver or 
iron weapons cause 1 point of dam 
age, spell immunities, fear gaze 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

30% 

SIZE: 

L (9' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fearless (20) 

XP VALUE: 

19,000 


Created deep within the experimental labs of Darkhold, the render 
is without a doubt one of the most savage creatures to ever walk the 
face of Faerun. The render was created completely by accident, and 
efforts to duplicate the experiment that brought life to the beast 
have since met with failure. 

The fearless render is an imposing 9 feet of muscles, sinews, 
claws, and teeth. The creature has deep black, short fur that covers 
its entire body and is matted down with a slimy, sweatlike secretion. 
The teeth of the render are between 5 and 9 inches long, and razor 
sharp. The beast's claws are equally as long, and are often caked with 
the remains of its last victim. The most unnerving thing about the 
render is its glowing amber eyes. They seem to strike fear in its vic 
tims only moments before they die. The creature has a deep hatred 
of all life, and kills without mercy or remorse. 

Combat: The render is one of the most savage, feral, deranged crea 
ture in the Realms, and likely the most deadly creature in the Heart 
lands. It is incredibly quick for its size, and imposes a -2 penalty to 
all surprise rolls when not encountered on open ground. The render 
has 60-foot infravision. In addition, anyone glancing into the crea 
ture's amber eyes must make a successful saving throw vs. paralyza- 
tion or be rooted in place by incredible fear and unable to act for 13 
rounds (or until the fear is dispelled). The render attacks with its 
two claws and fierce bite, and if all three of the attacks are success 
ful, the victim suffers an additional 2dl0 points of damage as the 
beast rends and shreds its prey. 

The render's greatest advantage is its ability to regenerate hit 
points. The monstrosity regains 4 hit points per round, and double 
that if the creature is in a berserk fury. The beast's regeneration is 
similar to that of a troll, and it regenerates even if reduced below 
-10 hit points. Only electrical damage can permanently kill the ren 
der. When it is brought to -10 hit points, over half of the damage 
done to it must have been electrical for it to be dead and not regen 
erate. 

The creature's magic resistance is considerable at 30%, and it is 
immune to all poisons, charm -type enchantments, and hold spells. 
Normal weapons cannot strike the render. Silver and cold iron 
weapons have a minimal effect on the creature, inflicting only 1 



point of damage per successful strike. Magical weapons do normal 
damage. 

If the creature is somehow brought to below half of its hit points, 
it throws itself into a berserk fury, gaining double its normal number 
of attacks and reducing its Armor Class to -4. So brutal are the 
attacks of the render that if an opponent sustains more than 40 
points of damage in one round and is not already dead, the victim 
must make a successful saving throw vs. death magic or be instantly 
reduced to 0 hit points -and at the mercy of the creature. 

Habitat/Society: The creation of the render was an accident. The 
beast is an unholy combination of a summoned tanar'ri and a human 
prisoner of the Zhentarim. While nefariously allowing the tanar'ri to 
kill a prisoner for pleasure, a Zhentarim wizard miscast an unknown 
spell from a scroll. The spell killed the wizard and joined together 
the tanar'ri and the dying human. The resulting creature killed hun 
dreds of Zhents in Darkhold before escaping into the Far Hills to the 
south of the citadel, where it has hunted ever since. The render has 
no memory of its former lives. As far as it is concerned, its existence 
began in the dungeons of Darkhold. 

The creature is in constant pain from its unholy union. The only 
way it knows to temporarily relieve this pain is to kill and consume 
prey -thus the render is a constantly active eating machine. Since 
the creature fears nothing, it is truly deadly. 

The Zhentarim are desperate to capture the render, but all 
attempts to do so thus far by Zhentarim wizards and Zhentilar troops 
have caused twoscore casualties and met with no success. 

Ecology: The render knows nothing but pain and the need to eat. 
The beast's stomach can digest anything organic, and it cares noth 
ing about the freshness of its meal. The beast needs to eat a mini 
mum amount of twice per day, though it will eat more frequently for 
the sheer pleasure of it. The render is presently unique and has no 
way to perpetuate its species. 


13 














Sacaanti 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


5), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved, 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any £ 

Very rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Any 

DIET: 

Carnivore 

INTELLIGENCE: 

Average (8-10) 

TREASURE: 

T 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

2 

MOVEMENT: 

6, FI 24 (B) 

HIT DICE: 

4 

THACO: 

17 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Id3/ld3/ld3+l 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Poison bite, wizard spells 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Etherealness, regeneration 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

25% 

SIZE: 

S (2' tall) 

MORALE: 

Steady (11-12) 

XP VALUE: 

2,000 


A sacaanti is a magical amalgamation of an imp and a quasit. Sacaantis 
are used by evil Zhentarim wizards as utterly loyal familiars. Only 
through powerful magic can a sacaanti be created. 

Sacaantis look similar to both imps and quasits, except they do not 
have a tail. Most sacaantis are 2 to 3 feet tall, possess batlike wings, a 
thick leathery hide, and a fiendish appearance. To make up for the lack 
of a poison tail, sacaantis have more powerful wings than a normal imp. 
These give them a greater flight range and speed. Sacaantis do not have 
the ability to polymorph as an imp, but have the ability to cast spells. 

Combat: Sacaantis attack with their two claws and sharp fangs. 
Although they do not have a poison tail, sacaantis have a poisonous bite. 
Tire victim of such a bite must make a successful saving throw vs. poison 
with a +2 bonus or suffer a massive heart attack, dying the next round. 
Sacaantis have 60-foot infravision. 

Sacaantis are usually trained as wizards by their masters. Their effec 
tive spellcasting level is limited to one-third of their masters' level, 
rounded down. Melee combat is not the first choice of a sacaanti, and 
the creature often casts offensive spells from a distance or sneaks in close 
using invisibiliti/ or other such spells. 

The master of a sacaanti can also cast spells through the creature, 
using it as a magical conduit. However, this is dangerous to the sacaanti, 
causing it 1 point of damage for every level of the spell. For instance, a 
wizard could cast fireball through his sacaanti familiar, using the sacaanti's 
sensory impressions to target the spell. The range limitations are treated 
as if the sacaanti originated the spell, but the sacaanti would suffer 3 
points of damage (because fireball is a 3rd-level spell). 

A sacaanti can become ethereal, at will, a number of times per day 
equal to the level of its master. If the creature chooses to do this instead 
of an attack in a combat round, then the sacaanti becomes ethereal 
before any attacks occur. 

Sacaantis regenerate 1 hit point per turn, and confer this ability on 
their masters as long as they are within a mile. Many of the immunities 
of imps and quasits (such as to cold, fire, and normal weapons) are lost in 
the creature's creation. In exchange, sacaantis are not affected by holy 
symbols, the spell holy word, or other magical manifestations that banish 
extraplanar creatures from the Prime Material Plane. 

Habitat/Society: First created in the magical labs of the Zhentarim 
nearly a century ago, sacaantis are extremely rare. Both imps and quasits 
are difficult to summon, and keeping the two in the same room is a near 



impossible feat. Sacaantis are created when, with two successful poly 
morph other spells and a carefully worded wish, an imp and quasit are 
joined together. This process is dangerous, and sometimes ends with the 
death of the two beings to be joined. Only half of the joined creatures 
survive. However, once a sacaanti comes into being, it becomes an 
unswerving ally of the spellcaster who created it - something one can 
never expect from an imp or a quasit. 

From the moment of its creation the sacaanti is in telepathic contact 
with its master. The longer the link remains, the more the two become 
extensions of each other. If a sacaanti's master is knocked unconscious, 
the creature can take control of its master's motor functions and com 
mand the body to walk, run, or perform other tasks (excluding the cast 
ing of spells). When they wish to, both the sacaanti and its master can 
receive each other's sensory impressions (including infravision). 

The death of a master or his sacaanti is devastating to the other. If a 
sacaanti dies while linked to his master, the wizard loses one level plus 
one level for every decade the two were joined. If this reduces the wizard 
below 1st level, the mage dies. If the two were joined less than a decade, 
the master falls into a coma 24 hours after the sacaanti's death for a num 
ber of weeks equal to the number of years the two were joined. If the 
master of a sacaanti dies, then the creature has 24 hours to enact its 
revenge before it too dies. This life-or-death link sets in immediately 
after the sacaanti is created. 

Sacaantis and their masters dislike remaining apart for more than a 
few days. Sacaantis are always evil in alignment, but are either lawful, 
neutral, or chaotic, depending on the alignment of their masters. 

Ecology: Sacaantis are more than errand boys or pets for Zhentarim wiz 
ards. They actually become extensions of the wizards, and the bond 
between the them is considered to be stronger than that between a wiz 
ard and a familiar. In many ways a sacaanti becomes the child a wizard 
never had, in addition to being a powerful tool of the spellcaster. 

Sacaantis live on a diet of raw meat and must eat daily. The creatures 
have no need for sleep. They are surprisingly neat and clean, considering 
their origins. 


14 















Snake. Messenger 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 

ORGANIZATION: Solitary 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any 

Omnivore 

Highly (13-14) 

Nil 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

MOVEMENT: 

6, FI 24 (B) 

HIT DICE: 

3 

THAC0: 

18 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld6 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Poison 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Chameleon 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

30% 

SIZE: 

S (2' long) 

MORALE: 

Steady (11-12) 

XP VALUE: 

975 


For reasons never explained, Zhentish wizards dislike working with 
most birds. There are times, however, when messages need to be car 
ried, and magic can be undependable and erratic, or is needed for 
other purposes. For these situations, a strange little reptile was bred: 
the messenger snake. 

Messenger snakes are 2 feet long, and their coloring is a metallic 
jade green. They have light green feathery wings resembling those of 
a parrot. They mimic human speech, speaking in a soft, hissing 
voice. Messenger snakes also have infravision (60-foot range) and 
an uncanny sense of direction. 

Combat: Messenger snakes were not made for combat. However, in 
order to protect themselves, they have a bite that causes ld6 points 
of damage and injects the target with venom that paralyzes a victim 
for ld4 hours, unless the victim make a successful saving throw vs. 



tish mages are searching diligently for it, and will pay handsomely 
for any such information or its possible location. 

Whenever a messenger snake is encountered, there is a 50% 
chance that it is carrying a small bundle. Roll ldlO and consult the 
chart below: 


ldlO Roll 
1-2 


Bundle Contents 


The snake's coloration shifts and changes as necessary, making it 

3 

A scroll with ld4 wizard spells of level ld8 

50% undetectable by casual sight. Add to this the fact that the 

4-5 

Some odd trinket or personal article 

snake's flight is 75% silent, and it makes for a very effective mes 

6 

A pouch with spell components 

senger. The snake can even blend in with the color of an overcast 

7 

A potion bottle (roll randomly) 

sky, so that persons looking up from the ground would have a hard 

8 

A small pouch with 20 pp 

tune telling that one of the snakes was flying above their heads. 

9 

A pouch with ld4 gems worth dllOOxlO gp 

In order to help it on its appointed rounds, the messenger snake 

10 

A small magical item (ring, figurine, etc.) 


can detect lie at will, and it always asks the intended for identification 
(a name or code word that it has been taught with the message). 
The snakes also have a special find the path ability that has a 100- 
mile radius and can only be used to find the person they are told to 
seek. The snakes can fly 200 miles a day. They must rest for an hour 
after 100 miles of flight before continuing on. 

Habita^/Society: The messenger snake can carry up to 2 pounds of 
weight in its coils. Most of the time, the burden is a scroll with a 
written message. The item can be seen as normal, despite the snake's 
blending ability. However, the snake is also able to repeat a verbal 
message of up to 100 words, giving it only to the one person it was 
intended for. 

Messenger snakes are never encountered in the wild. They are all 
raised by wizards who keep close tabs on them. The snakes mate, 
laying a clutch of 2d4 eggs once a year. 

The original secret of breeding messenger snakes from a root 
stock of other snake species has been lost. There is talk that Zhen- 


Ecology: The messenger snake is found wherever Zhentish mages 
are found: Zhentil Keep, the Citadel of the Raven, and Darkhold. 
They have also gained a measure of popularity in Mulmaster, Hills- 
far, Tantras, Ravens Bluff, and the nations of Thay and Calimshan. 
Many nations and regions dislike messenger snakes. In Waterdeep, 
the Dalelands, and Cormyr, messenger snakes are shot down. In the 
Great Gray Land of Thar, the snakes are considered a delicacy. 

Messenger snakes eat plants, insects, and small rodents, and live 
for about four decades. Rumor has it that the reason the Zhents are 
so frantic to find information on the origins of messenger snakes is 
that the snakes are becoming more intelligent, developing their own 
language, and refusing to serve. No one has ever been able to get a 
messenger snake to speak a word on its own, though, to confirm this. 

Messenger snake eggs can be sold for up to 1,000 gp each; hatch 
lings fetch 2,500 gp. 


15 
















Zhentarim Spirit 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 

ORGANIZATION: 

Any/Zhentarim-controlled areas 

Very rare 

Solitary 

ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

Night 

DIET: 

Nil 

INTELLIGENCE: 

High (11-14) 

TREASURE: 

Nil 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

-2 

MOVEMENT: 

FI 12 (C) 

HIT DICE: 

7 

THACO: 

13 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

ld8 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Hit point drain, possession 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+ 1 magical or better weapon needed to 
hit, spell immunities, invisible and 
intangible at will 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

M (5'-6' tall) 

MORALE: 

Fanatic (17-18) 

XP VALUE: 

6,000 


A Zhentarim spirit is the essence of a Zhentarim wizard who met 
with a horrible death at the hands of his or her enemies or treacher 
ous comrades. The spirit of the wizard is extremely vengeful, and by 
sheer force of will is remaining on the Prime Material Plane until a 
task is complete or until it takes revenge on those who slew it. Zhen 
tarim spirits are extremely rare, and only the death of a wizard who is 
greater than 14th level can bring about the creation of one of these 
spiteful spirits. 

Zhentarim spirits are semitransparent spirits that look somewhat 
like spectres, and those who confuse the two often end up dead. 
These spirits appear as they did at the time of their deaths, bearing 
their fatal wounds. 

Combat: Zhentarim spirits can no longer cast spells of any kind, but 
can converse with Prime Material beings in the languages they knew 
in life. Zhentarim spirits are not undead in the normal sense of the 
word -that is, they are not affected by holy water, cannot be turned, 
and are not connected to the Negative Energy Plane. They are sim 
ply being held to the Prime Material Plane by their indomitable 
willpower, refusing to go to their final rest (or judgment) until their 
killers have been dealt with. A Zhentarim spirit can become invisi 
ble and intangible at will, but must materialize to attack. 

Zhentarim spirits primarily target their killers. The attack of a 
Zhentarim spirit drains the hit points of its victim at a rate of ld8 
per strike. The loss of these hit points is permanent to the target of 
the spirit's vengeance (its killer or killers), while all others regain 
lost points as normal. 

Zhentarim spirits can also possess people through the use of a 
magic jar ability that they can attempt once per round; a spirit can 
only possess one person at any one time. A Zhentarim spirit must be 
within at least one-half mile of the possessed victim to exercise con 
trol over him or her. The spirits often use possessed victims to get 
close to their targets and either kill or injure them. A spirit must 
relinquish possession of a person before attacking a victim with its 
draining touch. 

Depending on the power possessed by a spirit's intended victim or 
victims, it will use extreme caution or a straightforward attack. 
Once those responsible for the death of the spirit's mortal form are 
dead, the creature will depart for its judgment on the planes. It is 


Ruins of Zhentil Keep Boxed Set 


(r), (tm) & (c) 1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



impossible to fool the spirit about the death of its victim-it will 
know if that person (or group of people) is truly dead or not. 

Killing Zhentarim spirits is a difficult thing, as they reform by 
force of will after 100 days if reduced to fewer than 0 hit points. The 
only way to completely destroy Zhentarim spirits is to kill them 
using a finger of death, power word, kill, or wish. They receive normal 
saving throws against these spells. 

Zhentarim spirits are immune to all spells except magic missile, 
protection from evil, finger of death, power word, kill, and wish; all oth 
ers simply pass through the creatures as if they were immaterial. 
They are also immune to weapons not of a magical nature (of at 
least +1 enchantment) and take only normal damage from a mace of 
disruption. 

Habita^Society: The determination of Zhentarim spirits to an 
nihilate their killers is exceptional, and these creatures defy final 
judgment for indefinite and extended periods to exact their revenge. 
This is done through these spirits' force of will (minimum Wisdom 
of 16), aided by their connection with the magical arts (minimum of 
14th-level wizard). 

These spirits have so far only been linked with wizards of the 
Zhentarim, and many think the tendency of Zhentarim wizards to 
form these spirits is attributable to magical means that they use to 
extend their lives. A vengeful Zhentarim spirit is formed one to two 
days after the death of an appropriate Zhentarim wizard, and it 
immediately sets about planning its revenge. 

Ecology: Zhentarim spirits have no need for sustenance or rest, and 
they continuously seek the destruction of their killer or killers. 
These spirits exist on the Prime Material Plane until their victim 
dies or they are destroyed. 


16 



















4th Floor 




























The FLamiNg TocueR 


This gigantic structure was originally constructed by a set 
of fire giant brothers. It is the last Zhentish outpost left 
uncontested in the Dalelands. The Flaming Tower rests in 
the shadow of the Temple in the Sky, which is tethered to 
the roof of the tower by a long, heavy magical iron chain. 
The tower was destroyed by the Knights of Myth Drannor 
in the Year of the Morninglord, but has since been rebuilt. 

The tower gets it name from the elevated bonfire that 
rests on its roof. This fire is lit if an invading force is spot 
ted heading toward the Citadel of the Raven, alerting the 
Citadel to the attackers. 

The Flaming Tower has solid black granite walls. 
After its earlier destruction, the walls of the tower were 
physically and magically reinforced, and the building can 
now easily withstand battering rams and powerful magic. 

A force of 40 Zhentilar soldiers (36 LE hm F5, 3 LE 
hm F7, 1 LE hm F9) operates the tower. They wear chain 
mail (AC 5) and use long swords when they fight hand- 
to-hand. The soldiers are aided by a family of fire giants (a 
father and his four sons) who are distant cousins of the 
tower's original creators. The fire giants are paid hand 
somely by Zhentil Keep to present a show of force here. 
The fire giants fight with gigantic two-handed swords and 
hurl rocks from the roof of the Tower when necessary. 

General Notes: The ceilings throughout the Flam 
ing Tower are 25 feet tall. All of the floors of the Tower 
are constructed with an encircling hallway. Arrow slits 
every 10 feet line the outer walls at a height of 5 feet, and 
quivers of sheaf arrows and long bows hang from pegs sta 
tioned every 20 feet or so along the inside wall. The sol 
diers of the Tower work in eight-hour shifts. One group of 
three Zhentilar patrol the base of the Tower constantly. 
Sometimes they are mounted, sometimes on foot. 

1. Entryway: The door to the Flaming Tower is con 
structed of hardwood and reinforced steel, and is 20 feet 
in height. The door can withstand 300 points of damage 
before collapsing. Both the interior and outside walls of 
this courtyard area have the arrow slits mentioned in the 
General Notes. 

2. Guardposts: One fire giant is located at one of 
these guardposts, along with a Zhentilar soldier. The 
other guardpost is manned by two Zhentilar. 

3. Armory: The Zhents store extra arrows, bolts, 
long bows and crossbows (light and heavy), extra long 
swords, and other weapons here. 

4. Gathering Hall: This main hall is where the sol 
ders and giants gather for most meals. It holds a huge 
table and many chairs, stools, and benches. 

5. Kitchen: This is obviously a food preparation area. 
A large fireplace with both a small spit and a double oven 
is built into one wall. The fireplace has no chimney, as it 
is magically vented. Bins and shelves around the room 
hold staples, spices, vegetables, and cooking pots and 
pans. Two Zhentilar are here preparing meals 16 hours 
out of every day. 

6. Cold Storage: This room is kept cool magically by 
a spell that passing Zhentarim wizards periodically renew. 
It is filled with meats and perishable fruits and vegetables. 

7. Privy: The privy wastes are periodically emptied 
outside. 

8. Well Room: The Flaming Tower is built over a 
good well, and could stand a long siege because of this. 


The well is covered by a heavy, hinged wooden cover 
with a hole cut in one side, big enough to admit a bucket 
on a rope, which hangs from a pulley on the ceiling. 

9. Staple Storage: This room holds long-term food 
staples. At the insistence of Zhentilar commanders, there 
are no alcoholic beverages present except weak beer. 

10. Stables: Six horses are kept here for the Zhentilar 
to use. The stable could probably hold a couple more, but 
then would become cramped. 

11. Tack and Feed: This room contains horse tack 
and equipment for repairing it, pitchforks, bales of hay, 
barrels of grain, and a salt lick. 

12. Activity Room: Group activities like arms prac 
tice, weapons and armor repair, games, and lounging about 
while drinking take place in this room, which is big enough 
to enough allow the fire giants to take part. 

13. Fire Giant Quarters: Five enormous beds occupy 
this chamber. Three giants are on watch at any one time, 
while the others either rest, eat, or hunt for game in the 
countryside. The giants keep the following items locked in 
a chest against one wall: 550 gold pieces, 224 silver pieces, 
and 5 uncut diamonds worth 300 gp each. 

14. Zhentilar Barracks: Twelve Zhentilar are sleep 
ing here (six in each room) at all times. These are the sol 
diers who are on their sleep shift. Since none of the 
Zhents truly trust each other, personal wealth is not left 
unguarded in the footlockers here. 

15. Leader's Conference Room: This room has a 
meeting table and chairs, and holds a few charts of the 
area around the Flaming Tower. 

16. Leader's Quarters: Pitsmin Finival, the Zhentilar 
captain in charge of the Tower (LE hm F9; Str 16, CON 
16, WlS 16), lives here in comfortably furnished quarters. 
He has a long sword +2 and chain mail +2, and wears a ring 
of invisibility. He has let his men know about the ring to 
make them think he may be watching them at any time. 

17. Storage: These rooms contain stored goods. 
Spare parts, spare weapons, food staples, broken and 
unused furnishings, and even empty containers are stored 
here, among other things. 

18. Signal Fire: The large signal fire rests on a 15- 
foot elevated platform. The wood is soaked in oil and 
ignites with the slightest spark. A flint and steel is located 
nearby. Two fire giants and four Zhentilar soldiers keep 
watch on the roof. 

19. Ballista: A large ballista is positioned at each of 
the tower's four comers, mounted to aim into a 180° arc. 
When manned, each ballista has a trained three-man 
crew and ammunition for 20 shots. A fully manned bal 
lista can be fired once per round, inflicts 3d6 points of 
damage, and has a range of 5/20/40. 

20. Boulders: These piles of boulders are the ammu 
nition for any rock hurling the fire giants wish to do. 
There are four piles of approximately 35 boulders each. 

21. Fire Giant Barbecue Spit: The fire giants like to 
spit-roast whole animal carcasses (or multiple carcasses). 
Since the kitchen is not big enough to accommodate 
their appetites, they have erected this spit on the roof. 
Often the fire giants on roof watch combine their duties 
with tending this spit. 

22. Chain: This is the point where the Temple in the 
Sky is attached to the Flaming Tower. 


1120XXX0601 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 





















ZhewTaRim Cakavak) 


The Black Network puts a great deal of thought 
into transporting its goods from one place to 
another. The caravan layouts on the other side of 
this card show typical security arrangements for 
Zhentarim caravans, from those carrying legal 
everyday products to rare precious metals or magi 
cal items to contraband, like slaves. Security 
increases incrementally, depending on the value 
of the cargo. The security measures are defined 
below. 

Security Measure A: 14 Zhentilar soldiers 
(LE hm & hf F3). 

Security Measure B: 14 Zhentilar soldiers 
(LE hm & hf F4) and 3 Zhentarim mages (LE hm 
& hf M5). 

Security Measure C: 16 Zhentilar soldiers 
(LE hm & hf F5) and 4 Zhentarim mages (LE hm 
& hf M7). 

Security Measure D: 24 Zhentilar soldiers 
(LE hm & hf F7), 5 Zhentarim mages (LE hm & 
hf M5), and 2 flying Zhentarim mages (LE hm & 
hf M8) either mounted on hippogriffs or other fly 
ing creatures, or using magical items to fly. 

ZhewTaRim Caizavak) 

CowTewTs Astb SecurciTy 

Roll IdlOO and consult the following list to deter 
mine what a random caravan is transporting, 
along with the level of security for the goods. 

01 - 35% Foodstuffs: The Zhentarim deal in 
many foodstuffs including grains, fresh and dried 
meats, fruits, fresh water (in the desert), and veg 
etables. Many of these caravans (60%) also con 
vey cheap wine and ale. A smaller number (20%) 
also carry a few luxury food items, such as exotic 
spices, rare herbs, sweetmeats from foreign lands, 
or pickled or preserved plants or meats from far 
away countries. Security Measure A. 

36 - 52% Ore: The ore carried can range from 
metal ores (40%) containing iron, copper, lead, or 
tin, among other metals, to building stones such as 
granite or limestone (40%), to semiprecious stone 
ores (20%) like bloodstone, augelite, azurite, blue- 
stone, crown of silver, goldline, hematite, mala 
chite, agate, ophealine, satin spar, quartz in its 
many forms, and many others. (For a good idea of 
what kinds of gems are found in the Realms, from 
fancy stones to precious ones, see FORGOTTEN 
Realms(r) Adventures.) Such ore is mined in the 
Dragonspine Mountains, the hills north of Citadel 
of the Raven, the Sunset Mountains, and the 
mines of Tethyamar. Because they carry such 
heavy cargo, these caravans often have extra 
horses or oxen, or reinforced wheels and axles. 
Security Measure A. 


53 - 65% Weapons: In addition to supplying 
the Zhentilar with weapons, the Zhentarim sell 
arms to anyone who is not likely to bear them 
against the Black Network. They also make a large 
profit by selling inferior weapons at inflated prices 
during times of war to both their allies and ene 
mies. Weapons are usually of the melee variety 
(70%), with occasional shipment of bows and 
arrows or bolts (30%). Security Measure B. 

66 - 70% Fabrics & Silks: Difficult-to-obtain 
fabrics, such as linen from the area of Chessenta, 
Unther, and Mulhorand, and rare silks from far- 
off Kara-Tur are popular items among the Heart 
land's wealthy. Many bolts of cloth begin their 
journey with the Zhents in Sembia or Waterdeep, 
or even from as far away as Turmish. Security Mea 
sure B. 

71 - 78% Lumber & Wood Products: Heavy 
timber, cut planks, and wood chips are needed in 
all major cities and by the tribes of the Anauroch. 
Much of the timber the Black Network sells 
comes from lumbering activity at Snowmantle 
and in the Border Forest north of the Citadel of 
the Raven. The wagons of these caravans have 
extra horses or oxen, or reinforced wheels and 
axles. Security Measure A. 

79 - 83% Slaves: Human and demihuman 
slaves are traded to the drow of the Underdark, 
corrupt nobles of Zhentil Keep, and beyond. The 
slaves are chained together in groups of six to 
ten. When passing through territory where the 
practice of slavery is censured, the slaves are 
loaded in covered wagons for transport. Else 
where, the wagons merely provide support for the 
guard personnel and the slaves must walk. Secu 
rity Measure C. 

84 - 93% Invasion Force: If the Zhentarim 
wish to move troops, magical strike forces, or spies 
into a community, it is easy to move them hidden 
in wagons supposedly filled with extremely valu 
able trade goods. These caravans are heavily 
guarded, cleverly adding numbers to the invasion 
force. Security Measure D. 

94 - 00% Magical Items & Other Rare 
Items: Powerful magic, rare antiquities, precious 
gemstone ore or gemstones, gold, and silver are 
often used and dealt in by the Black Network, 
and often these items cannot be transported mag 
ically. These caravans are guarded by skilled war 
riors and powerful wizards. Sometimes priests of 
Bane or Cyric also accompany these shipments. 
(There is a 20% chance of ld4 LE hm & hf 
C5-C9. Roll ld4+5 for level of each cleric.) Secu 
rity Measure D. 


1120XXX0602 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(r), (c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 




Temple )n the Sky 


The Temple in the Sky is an enormous chunk of 
strange rock that defies gravity by a means 
unknown to wizards and sages of the Realms -it 
just floats. The temple is made of black and 
brown stone, is taller than it is wide, and has a 
rough, jagged exterior. The bottom of the tem 
ple is tethered to the top of the Flaming Tower 
by a quarter mile of heavy iron chain, magically 
strengthened to keep it from breaking in rough 
weather. 

It is unknown who created the Temple in the 
Sky or exactly when it was created, just that it 
has floated across Faerun for hundreds of years. 
The Temple in the Sky was once the home of 
the Voice of Bane, heard through the beholder 
Xantriph, who was later slain by the Knights of 
Myth Drannor. Following the death of Bane, the 
temple was once again tethered to the Flaming 
Tower by a savage beholder Beast Cult. The 
beholder Xulla now rules the Temple in the Sky. 
Many cultists live in the temple and carry out its 
every whim. The Black Network is rumored to 
have made some secret pact with Xulla follow 
ing the Time of Troubles that links the forces of 
the temple and the Flaming Tower. 

Twenty-four cultists and their leader are here 
at any one time, as well as the beholder Xulla. 
The cultists are LE hm F4s armed with short 
swords and light crossbows, wearing hide armor 
(AC 6). They will all immediately become 
demoralized if Xulla is killed. The beholder cult 
leader, Travin Murl, is a LE hm P7 (STR 16, WlS 
16, Cha 16). He is a specialty Beast Cult priest, 
and has major access to the All and Animal 
spheres, and minor access to the Charm sphere. 
His spell complement is 5/5/2/1. He is also wear 
ing hide armor, and he uses a long sword and a 
light crossbow. 

All ceilings in the Temple in the Sky are 20 
feet in height unless otherwise stated. 

1. Entrance/Stables: Because the Temple is 
over a quarter mile up in the sky, the only way to 
reach it is by griffon or other flying creature. 
Any creature used to reach the temple is stabled 
here, as are four griffons used by the cult. With 
the exception of this chamber, the entire temple 
is lit with continual light. This chamber has five 
torch holders on the walls with torches in them. 
One or more of these are lit when illumination 
is desired in the stables. 

2. Stairway: The stairs from the stables are 
extremely steep and somewhat irregular in height. 
Any combat or other vigorous activity on the 
steps requires a player character to roll an ability 
check against Dexterity at a -2 penalty. Charac 
ters who fail the check lose their balance and 


fall Id6xl0 feet before becoming wedged against 
the wall. They suffer ld3 points of damage for 
each 10 feet they fell. 

3. Common Room: This chamber acts as a 
gathering area for the cult members. Many of 
their meals, which consist of raw meat from a 
variety of creatures, are eaten here on the cold 
stone floor. Bones and refuse litter the room. 
The smell is not pleasant, as the sweet odor of 
rotting meat clings to the area. 

4. Storage: Extra short swords and crossbows 
are stored here, as are rough, poorly tanned or 
green hides from animals eaten as food. Uneaten 
cuts of meat hang from hooks in the ceiling, and 
knives and tools for dressing animal carcasses 
rest carelessly on and about two butcher tables 
with scarred tops. Many other assorted odds and 
ends have been carelessly tossed into the corners 
of this chamber. 

5. Sleeping Chambers: These are the quar 
ters of the common cultists. Filthy straw mats 
line the floors of the chambers, and a rank smell 
emanates from the bedding. The bedding smells 
pleasant compared to the odor emanating from 
the buckets that are being used as latrines, found 
in one corner of each of these rooms. 

6. Cult Leader's Chambers: The left side of 
this chamber is literally a nest of foul straw, ani 
mal hides, and the bones of past meals. Hidden 
amidst the straw are 306 gp, 240 sp, 104 cp, four 
diamonds worth 400 gp each, and a potion of 
cloud giant strength. 

7. Beholder Audience Chamber: This 
vast chamber is home to the beholder Xulla and 
is where the creature is found. The chamber is 
also where cultists pay homage to it. The ceiling 
here reaches 70 feet in height, and the beholder 
often hovers near the highest points. The cultists 
hold daily ceremonies in reverence of their 
patron in which they offer Xulla up a meal in 
the beholder's honor -often a human meal. 

8. Escape Route: A shaft in the ceiling of 
the audience chamber provides a way out of the 
temple for a levitating beholder, should Xulla be 
attacked. 


1120XXX0603 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 





5-fT 

ft n> 

7 2. 

H 

aj 

5 -1 

" P 

z EL 

o ^ 
3P 


ru m 

fg 2 cl 
1 y R co 

- ~ o 


0*0- -n 

&.<§ O N 

co £ <JQ ft 

R.^c 2 

HTh 5-7 

co ft 7S 
(/) < co n> 

u tr £L " 

r O CR 3-T3 

< 3' " ; 

r^~ 5"s 

:• rp 3 CL ft 
- a y 1-1 

r S b- S, g. 

! ^ 3 3* p 

, pj X- "-> co 
^ co ft <T> cT> 


5'8 ff 

S*8 

00 a, c. 

S5-S 

P 3 " O 
O 3 a 

-n £ s' 

<S S' g: 

5 4; EL 

'- r o a. 


H 

p ft 

;¦§ rT 


*-p H* 

1 £o r* 

lr+" 2 

& < KjS 
% i^y 

f (r) 0 

I g, s 

-,CQ 

|-Q 

*G 

(6 f* 
CD ST 
TS t 


g ^|S 
3 s-S 2 

2-3 -+¦, j3 
y> a p 


a 

CL I 

o cr 

M fD v 


ft 


£0 


3 ^ 

p >d 


co o ft 
n 
co 
0 

- g 

CO 


CO 

3 o 
& ** 2 
IP ? 

S1 

3 " O 

ft" O o j; 

m co n> 

S' 1 p- -t 

3 5-r 

ft ft co 


Z£ g:p 

I ? g-F 

co- ft ^ ^ 

p 1 B' ?T K' 
3 " g: rt 

5 3 E# ff 

^ 2 "--ft 
-\ ft o _* 
.. 3 ^ 5j 
-t h- SL " 

s. ST g: g* 

ft i~t n (tm) 

L, o 2L o 

tj 3r " 

£4 r-f 5 CL 

HfTS if 

o'"|^ 

o " S' 3. 

? R-i* 


*> Tl 

"• S 

re C 


3 D 3 


d 7 
3 -3 

n re 
o 

u£ 

Cp on 

g -T 


"0 ?" 

<S O' 

CO ^ 

1^0 

Si? 5 Li 
^ jl jy 


ft 


Q 2 Tl 
13 N 
0*0 
s& 


2 Cd 

3 B 


5 s* a, 

ft (U r-t 

w' co p 


pr- P 
e cl 


ft 


s " 

tr 

Ll p 


CL 

S | 

i-J co 

?r e 
9 p 
Q c= 
o 


Qs 


e w > 

p ft ^ 
CLg ^ 
C+ ft n 

sTi 3 

. . R ft 
C Q ^ 
3 P " 
o' 55' •§ 


?¦ .. 

"I-S" 

sp3 


9. r^ 


zr ft , 


c." 3 

t; Cl ^ 


a X 


50 2. 

S.S 


3 aTo 


a 1 £ 

. G* r 


S| 

S 3 

5§ 

o S 


\ 



Ip 

"r?2 

|(D Q 

|n= 


VQ 

re 3" 

CD 


3 S 

Q 3 - 
3 2 



£ 

G? 

3 



g s 


x- sr o 




rs* 

3 3 


w 


y TO jr* 

i It P 


P ^ 


-> &* 9 ft 

ft M co 
'2 ^ <: 


ft n> 


n o y 

sT| a 

3 H rt 

3 CL 

O <T 

PSl 
2 11 


S £. 


d S" 

ft p 

" 5- 


g o 

J!L Su <§. 

^ Cl R 
^ Sr 2 


o P 
O "' 
P 
3 


3" P B " 

n S 3 3 


o g* 
3 P 
3 T 


8 5 s- 

3 ft H 

g- § g 

5 S 8 . 

ft ft ft 
CL CL CL 


QTQ 


3. P" 

p' ft 

-" n 
Z i- 
o s. 


C 

3 

ft 
CL x> 


¥ g" 

CL ft 


|g-(r) S' 
f re ? 3 gf 

s (r) 

c i- 

ffi o 

a-8 


CO P 







SectzeT 

Temple 

One square = 10 feet 















SecReT 

Sinister temples to Bane, and later Cyric, can be 
found in many villages and cities across Faerun. 
These temples are hidden from the eyes of the gen 
eral populace because the worshipers of evil deities 
rightfully fear retribution by the forces of good. 
Many of these temples are hidden beneath ware 
houses or the residences of lords and nobles, or are 
squirreled away deep within a city's sewer system. 
The worshipers of these wicked gods protect their 
shrines with dogged perseverance. Only others of 
their faith are welcome; all others will be offered up 
as sacrifice to their deity as punishment for intrud 
ing. 

A minimum of 20 clerics of one evil faith are 
here at any one time, as well as a high priest and two 
undead guardians under his or her control. 

1. Entrance: The entrances to these hidden 
temples are often trapped with poison needles (suc 
cessfully save or die) or magical glyphs of warding. 
The tripping of these traps alerts those inside to the 
presence of trespassers outside their domain. Other 
types of traps include poison gas, flying darts, or pits 
that open at the door, capturing intruders. 

2. Guard Rooms: These chambers each hold 
three acolytes (six total NE hm & hf C2; WlS 14) 
who take turns monitoring the temple entryway for 
the entrance of their fellow brethren or malicious 
intruders. They are wearing scale mail (AC 6) and 
are armed with footman's maces. While the acolytes 
are engaged with the intruders, one of their number 
casts sanctuary on himself or herself and flees to 
warn the remainder of the clergy. The rooms each 
hold an unlocked wardrobe containing loose robes. 
Their walls are draped in plain wall hangings depict 
ing symbols of the appropriate faith. 

3. Acolytes' Chambers: These rooms are 
where the acolytes of the temple sleep. They contain 
tiny cots with locked chests at their feet (in which 
the acolytes keep their belongings), and a scarred 
table with two chairs. When appropriate, the DM 
may decide that one or more acolytes are sleeping 
here rather than on duty in a guard chamber. 

4. Underpriests' Chambers: These are the 
cells of the mid-level priests of the temple. They are 
also used as accommodations for important guests 
who must sleep overnight in the temple. Each 
chamber contains a simple bed and a large, flat- 
topped chest that is locked. A comfortable rug cov 
ers the floor, and a curtain can be pulled across the 
room to hide the bed from view. Usually the two 
cells located nearest the altar are used as guest rooms 
to allow the high priest to spy on guests. These two 
chambers do not have curtains. 

5. Holding Chambers: These chambers have 
sturdy locks on their doors. They are used to hold 
disbelievers or others who are to be punished at the 


Temple 

hands of those who dwell here. The chambers are 
filthy and lice-ridden, with a thin layer of mildew- 
covered straw on the floor. There is a 40% chance to 
find a victim trapped here. 

6. Grand Worship Hall: This vast hall is host 
to ceremonies in the name of the evil god worshiped 
here. Large pillars of stone line either side of the 
chamber, and an undead guardian (a zombie or 
skeleton, two total) under the control of the high 
priest can be found lurking in the shadows to either 
side. The chamber's ceiling is 30 feet in height. 

The remainder of the clergy and the high priest 
are found in this area. There are six evil clerics (NE 
hm & hf C4; WlS 15) present, wearing scale mail 
(AC 6) and armed with footman's maces. The high 
priest (NE hm or hf C7; WlS 16) wears chain mail +1 
(AC 4) under a tunic and uses a footman's flail +1. 

7. Dark Altar: The center of worship in the 
temple, the altar is crafted of dark granite or obsid 
ian. Flanking it are two candelabras, an unholy 
water font is located to its left on the floor, and a 
huge tapestry occupies the entire space behind it 
from floor to ceiling. It radiates evil and may have 
suspicious dark stains on its surface. 

8. High Priest's Conference Room: A large 
meeting table and chair occupy most of this room, 
which also features three bookcases of religious texts 
and reference works. 

9. High Priest's Chambers: This chamber 
reveals its owner's status through its size, rather 
than the richness of its furnishings. The room con 
tains a small desk and chair, writing supplies and 
candlesticks, a small priedieu, and a large comfort 
able bed. 

10. Secret Chamber: Any magical treasure of 
the temple is stored here in a locked and trapped 
chest. Also located in the chest is the temple's trea 
sury. How wealthy the treasury is depends on the 
wealth of the temple's supporters and how influen 
tial it is in the city or town where it is located. Typi 
cal treasure includes 2dl00 gp, 2dl00 sp, 5d6 pp, 
and ld3 potions. 

11. Storage Room and Armory: Supplies of 
all sorts and extra or broken furnishings are stored 
here. Several locked chests are located against one 
wall. They contain fine altar linens, beeswax can 
dles, incense, extra ceremonial garments, and other 
ecclesiastical supplies, but nothing of great value. 
Also found here are any extra melee or missile 
weapons the temple may have. 

12. Secret Passages: These narrow passages 
provide escape for the high priest should the temple 
be invaded by superior forces. The passages also 
serve to let the high priest spy on prisoners and cer 
tain underpriests through peepholes concealed in 
the walls. 


1120XXX0605 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 



ZbejoTJL Keep Ru)kjs 
R andom EkJGoubfterzs 


All of the creatures used in this encounter table can 
be found in the MONSTROUS MANUAL(tm) or the 
Monstrous Compendium(r) booklet in this boxed 
set. Entries with an asterisk next to them have a 
note in the Notes section. 


Encounter 

Day 

Night 

Banedead (2d6) 

01-04 

01-03 

Banelich (1) 

- 

05 

Bats* (IdlOO) 

- 

06-07 

Beholder (1) 

05-06 

08 

Burnbones (1) 

- 

09 

Centipedes, huge* (4d6) 

07-10 

10-12 

Doppleganger (1) 

11-13 

13-14 

Drow visitors* (2d4) 

- 

15-16 

Dwarves, hill* (6) 

14-18 

- 

Falcon (1) 

19-21 

- 

Feral dog pack* (4d4) 

22-26 

17-19 

Feyr, great (1) 

27 

20 

Fire beetles, giant (3d4) 

- 

21-23 

Frost giants (ld6) 

28-32 

24-27 

Galltrits (ld4) 

- 

28-29 

Gargoyles (2d6) 

33-36 

30-32 

Ghoul pack (2dl2) 

- 

33-34 

Giant toads* (2d4) 

37-39 

35-36 

Gnoll raiders* (2d6) 

40-41 

37-40 

Gremlins (ld6) 

- 

41-42 

Guardgoyle (1) 

42-43 

43 

Human thugs* (2d6) 

44-47 

- 

Lich (1) 

- 

44 

Looters* (3d6) 

48-52 

- 

Lost pet* (1) 

53 

45 

Magedoom (1) 

54 

46 

Ore scavengers* (3d6) 

- 

47-50 

Otyugh (1) 

55-59 

51-53 

Owl (1) 

- 

54-55 

Phantom (1) 

60-62 

56-58 

Poltergeists (ld8) 

- 

59-60 

Ravens* (4d8) 

63-66 

- 

Scarlet dancers* (ldlOxlO) 

- 

61-64 

Skeletons* (3dl0) 

67-72 

65-67 

Snyads (ld8) 

73-74 

68-69 

Spiders, large* (2dl0) 

75-78 

70-73 

Trolls* (ld4) 

- 

74-75 

Undead beholder (1) 

79 

76 

Unstable structure* 

80-83 

77-79 

Vampire* (1) 

- 

80 

Vultures* (4d6) 

84-87 

- 

Wandering undead* 

- 

81-82 

Wererats (2d6) 

88 

83-85 

Weretiger (1) 

89 

86 

White dragons, young adult 

(ld3) 90-92 

87-89 

Wights* (ld4) 

- 

90-92 

Zhentarim survivor* (1) 

93 

- 

Zhentilar expedition* (14) 

94-97 

- 

Zhentish sewer rats (3d8) 

- 

93-96 

Zombies* (3d8) 

98-00 

97-00 


NoTes 

Bats: This swarm of bats is not menacing, 
although it may unnerve anyone who encounters 
it. If the vampire is encountered, these are the bats 
that can be summoned by it. This encounter is 
with large hats (3d6) 20% of the time, but they 
cannot he summoned by the vampire. 

Centipedes, Huge: This encounter is with 
giant centipedes (2dl2) 30% of the time, and 
with megalo-centipedes (ld4) 10% of the time. 

Drow Visitors: This curious party has come 
up from the Underdark through the sewers, and it 
seeks to loot some of the Keep's famous magic. It is 
led by a CE of C9 of Lloth, who is accompanied by 
a CE em M5/F6 and a CE of C7/F6. All remaining 
drow in the group are CE em F3s. 

Dwarves, Hill: These dwarves have come in 
search of treasure and glory, and to slay giants. 
They are hostile only if provoked, unless a giant 
accompanies the group. These group members are 
all male dwarves. One is an F7, one is a C7, one is 
a C5/F4, and the rest are F2s-F5s. They are of any 
non-evil alignment. 

Feral Dog Pack: Natural selectioin has 
ensured that only the toughest of these guard dogs 
and escaped pets survived the razing of the Keep. 
These animals use the statistics for war dogs. 

Giant Toads: This encounter is with giant 
poisonous toads (ld4) 30% of the time. 

Gnoll Raiders: Once allied with the frost 
giant invaders, many of the gnolls have since bro 
ken off and formed their own scavenging parties. 

Human Thugs: These thugs are fairly tough. 
They are looking for easy loot, but will fight 
almost any group equal to them or less in number. 
They are T4s-T6s and F3s+F5s of any non-good 
alignment. 

Looters: These looters are fairly cowardly peo 
ple who are out for a quick gold piece for little 
effort. They are N hm & hf Tls-T3s and Fls-F2s. 
They only fight if someone tries to take the little 
they've found (2dl0 gp in assorted coins and two 
art objects), and they flee if more than two of their 
number fall. 

Lost Pet: Most often the lost pet is a domestic 
cat or dog that has somehow managed to survive. 
It is incredibly cute and desperately needs to be 
taken out of the ruins before it becomes some 
thing's lunch. At the DM's discretion, a lost pet 
might be something more exotic, like a mountain 
lion. 

Ore Scavengers: Groups of ores, either rem 
nants of the Zhentilar forces or tribes from Thar, 


wander the ruins in search of gold or other valu 
ables. 

Ravens: A flock of crows swoops in to feed. 
There is a 20% chance they are giant ravens (4d4), 
and a 5% chance they are huge ravens (2d4). 

Scarlet Dancers: Released from the sewers of 
the Keep, a cluster of scarlet dancers roams the 
ruins in search of blood. Dancers are especially 
attracted to the scent of blood. 

Skeletons: This encounter is with monster 
skeletons (ld6) 30% of the time, and with animal 
skeletons (ldlO) 10% of the time. 

Spiders, Large: Rather than large spiders, this 
encounter is with huge spiders (2d6) 35% of the 
time and giant spiders (ld8) 15% of the time. 

Trolls: A small group of trolls have moved into 
the ruins, and they patrol the wreckage at night in 
search of food. 

Unstable Structure: A nearby building or 
underground cavern, weakened by the razing of 
the Keep, collapses due to stress. All involved 
must make a successful saving throw vs. breath 
weapon or sustain 3d6 points of damage and 
become pinned or trapped. 

Vampire: The destruction of Zhentil Keep has 
not diminished this creature's need for blood. It 
always flies through the ruins of the Keep first in its 
nightly search for victims before heading for the 
occupied southern section. The vampire can sum 
mon bats easily to assist it (see the Bats note). 

Vultures: There is a 30% chance that these 
are giant vultures (2d6). 


Wandering Undead: A mixed group of zom 
bies (2dl0) and ghouls (ld6) shuffles through the 
streets. 

Wights: These undead have been attempting 
to breach the barriers to the southern section of 
the city and reach its living residents. 

Zhentarim Survivor: This minor surviving 
member of the Black Network, Korvig Thellan 
(LE hm M6; Int 16), wants to be escorted to the 
Citadel of the Raven. He offers 500 gp in gems 
now, and 2,000 gp upon his arrival for his safe 
transit there. He has the gems with him, but 
must get the gold from the Citadel. If attacked, 
he flees, rather than fight. If taken up on his offer, 
he expects to be guarded all the time, and expects 
his (heavy) spellbooks to be carried and pro 
tected. (They're hidden nearby.) He refuses to 
participate in combat, is generally unhelpful (but 
not openly hostile), and uses almost any excuse 
to renege on the 2,000 gp if actually delivered to 
the Citadel. 

Zhentilar Expedition: By order of Lord 
Orgauth, a squad of 14. soldiers (LE hm F5) have 
been sent to map out the ruins, salvage what they 
can, and kill any small pockets of resistance. 

Zombies: With the setting of the sun these 
former residents walk the streets. Many of these 
creatures wander aimlessly, their former masters 
slain in the razing of the city. Rarely (5% of the 
time), this encounter is with ju-ju zombies (ld3) - 
unfortunate victims of some Zhentarim mage's 
cruel experiments. 



1120XXX0606 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(r), (tm). (c)1995 TSR. Inc. All rights reserved. 






La)r. of Ha.ROM<5>albAK the BLacTc 


One square = 20 feet 


HAROM&aLbARS La)k 


The Zhentarim of Darkhold have made a pact with the 
great black wyrm Harondalbar to guard Yellow Snake 
Pass against all but Zhentish caravans. Harondalbar's lair 
rests high in the southwestern peaks of the pass. The 
Zhentarim have offered to feed Harondalbar, give him 
the respect his age and cleverness have earned, and bring 
him treasure for his already massive hoard. 

A Zhentarim agent, a comely female enchanter 
named Faren Starlight, resides here with the dragon, 
keeping an eye on the pass and coaxing Harondalbar 
from his lair should he need to make good on his bargain 
with the Black Network. Harondalbar thinks Faren is 
exceptionally beautiful for a human, and follows her 
requests after some persuasion. Should Harondalbar 
refuse to leave his lair (which he does on occasion), Faren 
uses phantasmal force or spectral force spells to imitate the 
dragon's swooping attacks on the pass. 

Harondalbar's lair cannot be reached except by flying 
or a dangerous climb up sheer cliffs. Few people, except 
members of the Cult of the Dragon wishing to seduce the 
great wyrm, have attempted to approach the lair since its 
location became open knowledge. Until striking a pact 
with the Zhentarim, Harondalbar was a servant of the 
lich-queen Varalla. She was destroyed at the hands of the 
Black Network during their conquest of Darkhold. 

1. Entrance: The entrance to the lair is enormous, 
but it is barely large enough to accommodate Harondal 
bar's great bulk. Large claw marks are evident in at the 
front ledge of the area, caused by the dragon's landings 
and liftoffs. 

2. Faren Starlight: When the pact between Haron 
dalbar and the Zhentarim was completed, Faren Starlight 
used magic to delve this chamber (with the permission of 
Harondalbar). She then constructed a makeshift wall to 
insure her privacy and claimed the chamber as her own. 
The large chamber has a huge fireplace/oven/furnace in 
the westernmost corner that serves to heat the room, 
cook meals, and provide a smelter for various magical 
experiments. It is vented magically to the Elemental 
Plane of Fire. 

The chamber's floor has been leveled and smoothed, 
and carpets have been brought in to provide a homey and 
warm touch. The rougher walls of the room are covered 
by an eclectic assortment of tapestries, and the room is 
amply furnished toward the northeastern end with two 
large beds, several wardrobes, and a couple of chests, 
along with a half dozen large bookcases and one scroll 
storage rack. 

Closer to the fireplace lies Faren's work area. Several 
large tables cluttered with magical laboratory equip 
ment-jars, bottles, alembics, decanters, mortars and pes 
tles-and other wizard paraphernalia are located here, as 
are a couple of tall stools and a large overstuffed armchair 
near the fireplace. Other furniture includes many shelves 
and bins full of arcane odds and ends, and a food prepara 
tion nook complete with a chopping block, a sink, a bar 
rel of water that magically never runs dry, and a rack of 
pots, pans, and kitchen utensils. 

Faren is a young, beautiful human woman, 5'6" tall, 
with long, black hair and deep emerald eyes. She has clear, 
pale skin, making her look almost ethereal at a glance. 
The enchanter is one of many former apprentices of both 


Sememmon and Manshoon, and although she is young, 
she shows great potential. While Faren's loyalties still lie 
with the Zhentarim, the knowledge and power that the 
great wyrm holds locked within his skull and under his 
talons may swing her allegiance to him alone over time. 

Faren Starlight, hf W(E)6: THACO 19/18, 

16 staff of power; #AT 1; Dmg ld6+2; AC 2 
(Dex., bracers of defense AC 6, staff of power); hp 
27; MV 12, FI 18 (B); SA wizard spells; SD +2 to 
all saving throws due to staff of power, immune to 
magic missile; AL LE; ML 14; MI Staff of power 
with 19 charges, bracers of defense AC 6, brooch of 
shielding (can absorb 83 more points of magic mis 
sile damage), winged boots. 

S 14, D 16, C 16, I 17, W 14, Ch 18. 

Personality: Alluring, seductive, deceitful. 

Spellbook (5/3/3*): 1st: Burning hands, charm 
person**, color spray**, comprehend languages, 
detect magic, feather fall, shocking grasp, sleep**, spi 
der climb, phantasmal force** (x2); 2nd: Alter self, 
bind, deafness, fog cloud**, insatiable thirst** 
(ToM), summon swarm, Melf's acid arrow**, 
Tasha's uncontrollable hideous laughter; 3rd: Explo 
sive runes, hold person, lightning bolt**, spectral 
force**, suggestion**. 

'Includes one extra spell of the Enchantment/Charm 
school of each spell level. "Indicates favored spell. 
(ToM=Tomc of Magic.) 

3. Harondalbar's Lair: Harondalbar has lived 
through two dozen human generations, and his power 
has yet to diminish. He was reluctant to aid the Zhen 
tarim, but after the Black Network offered to double his 
hoard and provided a beautiful assistant, the dragon 
agreed. Harondalbar defends the pass against intrusions, 
but seldom leaves his lair more than three times a week. 

Harondalbar's hoard consists of 14,004 copper pieces, 
8,992 silver pieces, 23,406 gold pieces, 40 assorted gem 
stones, 24 pieces of jewelry, 20 miscellaneous magical 
items, 7 magical weapons, 3 sets of magical armor, 4 mag 
ical rings, 12 random potions, and 30 assorted art objects, 
along with a veritable nest of decaying, rich tapestries, 
rugs, and bolts of silk and velvet. 

Harondalbar the Black, a Great Wyrm: 
THACO 1; #AT 3+special; Dmg Id6+12/ld6+12/ 
3d6+12; AC -7; HD 20; hp 109; MV 12, FI 30 
(C), Sw 12; SA Acid breath 24d4+12 (5' wide, 

60' long), wizard spells (all verbal only, casting 
time 1, at 20th level), snatch, plummet, kick, 
wing buffet, tail slap, stall, 50-yd.-radius fear aura, 
darkness 120'-radius 3/day, corrupt water 1/day, 
plant growth 1/day, summon insects 1/day, charm rep 
tiles 3/day; SD Water breathing, immune to acid; 

MR 45%; SZ G (99' long+86' tail); INT Genius; 

AL CE; ML 20; XP 20,000. 

Personality: Selfish, charming, proud. 

Spells (9): 1st: Charm person, detect magic, 
enlarge (or reduce), gaze reflection, grease, magic 
missile, unseen servant, metamorphose liquids 
(ToM), Nystul's magic aura. 

(ToM=Tome of Magic.) 


1120XXX0607 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 





L a)k of the Reto&eri 


The render is a unique creature created in the 
bowels of Darkhold, from which it escaped. 
The creature is the perfect killing machine 
and has so far killed all who have opposed it. 
The render roams the Far Hills to the south 
of Darkhold and has lately taken to attacking 
caravans out of the Zhentarim base as a 
source of food. 

The render must kill and eat twice daily to 
ease the constant pain it is in. It may soon 
venture into more civilized lands in search of 
food. For now, the savage creature has taken 
up residence in an ore tribe's lair in the Far 
Hills. The beast has recently taken to drag 
ging the remains of its victims back to the 
cave as trophies. The render has only recently 
occupied the cave, and remnants of its former 
residents still litter the complex. 

1. Cave Entrance: The entrance is hid 
den amidst a clump of scrub brush, planted by 
the ores who once lived here to mask the 
entrance of their home. The render has not 
moved the brush since decimating the ore 
tribe. 

2. Ore Warriors' Remains: Upon enter 
ing the ores' lair, the render massacred the ore 
guards stationed here. The creature quickly 
consumed the bodies, threw the remains in 
this alcove, and promptly forgot about them. 
Both of the ores were male, each of them 
armed with a rusted short sword and wooden 
shield. One of the ores still has an uncut ruby 
worth 75 gp, while the other has a dagger +1 
still clasped in its mangled hand. 

3. Ore Storage Room: The tribe of ores 
that once lived here was working for the 
Zhentarim, and stored its booty here before 
transferring it to Darkhold. A dozen crates 
are stacked here, plunder from a Sembian 
trade caravan headed for Waterdeep. The 
crates contain silks, furs, rugs, and fine items 
of clothing worth up to 5,000 gp. The trail 
sign of the Firehands Group, a trading coster 
headquartered in Daerlun, is inscribed on the 
crates, along with the name of the coster 
written in Common. If the crates are returned 
to the coster, they will net a reward of 500 gp. 

4. Scavengers: More ore remains are 
found in this alcove. A bold group of 10 giant 
rats has dared to enter the cave in search of a 
meal and has taken up residence here. The 
render has left the rats alone for now, since it 
has found sufficient food outside the cave. 


Giant Rats (10): THAC0 20; #AT 
1; Dmg ld3; AC 7; HD 1-1; hp 4 ea.; 
MV 12, Sw 6; SA Disease; SZ T; INT 

Semi-; AL Neutral evil; ML 7; XP 15 

ea. 

5. Dead Ores: This chamber is where the 
ores made their last, and futile, stand against 
the render. Short swords and crossbows lie 
among a dozen mangled corpses that are 
barely distinguishable as ore in origin. So hor 
rible is the sight here that those entering the 
chamber must make a successful ability check 
against their Constitution scores or become 
sick to their stomachs from the repulsive dis 
play (-1 to attack and damage rolls for ldlO 
rounds). 

6. The Render's Abode: The render 
hunts during the daytime, and there is only a 
25% chance the PCs will find him here when 
they enter this chamber if they do so between 
sunrise and sunset. If the render got enough 
food during the day, there is an 85% chance 
to find it here after sunset. 

Lying about this chamber are the bones 
and skulls of countless victims of the render, 
many with bits of dried meat still on them. 
Some victims' belongings managed to remain 
with them when the render dragged their 
bodies here. The helmet of a Purple Dragon 
of Cormyr, a wand of fire with 15 charges 
(bearing the symbol of the Zhentarim), a 
pouch containing 400 pp (also bearing the 
seal of the Zhentarim), a dagger of venom, and 
a ring of protection +2 are strewn about the 
chamber, intermixed with the bones. It will 
take a minimum of four turns to completely 
search this room. 

If the render is not here when the PCs 
enter this chamber, there is a 5% cumulative 
chance per turn that the creature will return 
from hunting with another dead victim in its 
claws. See the Monstrous Compendium(r) 
Appendix booklet for the render's statistics. 


1120XXX0608 Ruins of Zhentil Keep 


(r), (c)1995 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 




sea of Mavi 


JcewiNO i 
Dale > 


Min&ll, 


ChG icGpeak 


ICC EjlftSfi 


LueltAN 


TVV'V:- . vv - 


weve 


aLi ;-v 7 

kuV 1 "' tattifvii 


iuHdanluN 


ll'Hut-j m 


the Whale boNcs 


Kuaim'vi 


KOTliM 


iperaqp 


MlVl.-iVV 












CcfPMVLlbi 


¦:- j • tJuL ' : MM**] ADHSr 


¦Lurto^b: 

. 1 ^ -!n '.i . . -r- 


{ N'sNeEl* o 

. ? 

P . irf 

* LONilSa.Wtlf' 


ri^v?Riuo"n£. 

{X$e_ ^rtpJl fcfgons i 


^vsstfuwo/' 


Hellliate Kttp 


Vaiilau 


H'.^nK ¦ 


-Vi'Vvi 1 




V ^ 


P3*#ws 






U^aflicr.cott 


Aitot-cp 




-ficcpMhi 


CI7^ 

Lauqhi>jq 

Hui'ortw 


VUETCtJ 


JtpweJ? 


j i k>'m; n. 

L 'IsS-fj 


TJitftGOPeii^rt 

• CSfibs =1 


oiuu Mtiot!. 




rnoll Hills 























:c*|jwavt 


SfoaDowbal 


iCtye tontuREiJ Lass 


ANauRoelj 

¦ . tr?c : QnEat bcsent 

(Atso t'^'Quea} $&no Seal. 


4 ~i+J w 

,. r White Hohn 


VUCittfjryl 


np^ftTfiq^t 


l of [ijt RavidM 




Attics [IfrtrA-i 

• • • M 


woaj^i 


HtaUNia 











ute Ride (NOMab sieppesf 


Of me llavp-N 


'jPie_G^cat_ gnay UiNb Of pjai 


FUIlAH ¦ 


0 EftENlil KEEP 


MooNsea 


MlllfrfaJi 




West 


z\)<£ Qrceat giacteit 


Moun 


i" - BEOOb&tONf 




Moufl 




HtTit-HiUtiAlUS- 


MooNsea 

| 'iffttjiPil, Of 's* *i. ' 

^ -SP 

W-v: : 'vV -'V- 


MUlM^fCETI 


- : L . 

i : ¦¦ , 

E3SS 






























Ru.OS 01 ZhenSil Kesq 1 'SOXXXU/gi 




Moons 17 

Isles 




n Caiiloyitn 


il- Muuvbhat " 


Frawst€^ti ist? 


NrARIM 


MlNta.K'N 


Sea 


SWOKO 


Cliy os VlFlaqs uNiMK 
UhtNliiaiM COMtTKH 

an? ore Vili;u.;r u k Wh; 

!!¦[?>. COHlRCll bVltr? 

XCMUteOf II^Nf cm CTlUC 

Cat? ore VllLicK wild 

Zhi-NlnnlM PkCsCmcc 

ritp nit Vlllaqc 
ZhfNIflfilM PKeWHCS Wife 
CrMpJe Of flBNC im Celtic 

Cat? CJH VllFAM will? 

Clioups 

Oil? On Vi3l£njr UNincn 

idcmaniF-.'Si^Mtuairt 

CnNlnol 

uitKiii IwfJuewe 


£lMnran.iw Citubr Roule 


Nof^iNrlu-rNcct? dtp 


Ljuilk'lircp 


K 3 


Hobo 


CWin 


NelaNtfren 

Islesi 








CltMl 


MOLINF&IH6 


Fooldills 


UnltiNq Hil In 


Worts(tm) 


-^3 




7 ¦ , "i" 


IIURK^hi: 


D€Wlft 


FORCE! 


fl'.-.'flMJl 


Sc;t 


Ili lie 


ItiVfiit 


Cliffs 


Swim 


GlAClu'll 


riiiMS fi GruissLiK&i 


UQV 

Of iRtJtlC 


Sea 

Of 


1095 TSR, Inc All rights reserver:. 








































































































Souls 


liliifHTrC 


soubaft 


/rue Fteios/ 


CrUel f 


r ITu lie I • 


Sco'HNutKl 


C-tpiik j 

¦¦' fcjLrSL i. h, 

Wop.t>, 

k 1 -kJ&' F 


rue wooti: afyuaK^'iceetu 


mtaction ¦ 


CilwW 


rue Ejneew Fief&s 


AiUfcatT& '* 


URla 


Amn 


E*M-C]TaSE(lN 


l rowtn 
nplK>Mq 


tUe SMalir€^r 


Simsl 


HlalaviN 


FlfleDRakc 


¦- .1 - r l 


ife Wou^!aj.-N3. 

"j-S. 




















otBoncs 


6 LuMbetlj . 

I 

el- -QobilK iV^n-rirrs 


bUuli GonQ' 


iioHdaNOE 


Anatifl 


'Cl|NrAM&& 


V ** WWt^NW Me i: 


Aiii-rrcNmci. 


Of 


wijfiooN 




.,">•¦' ManscMtJcn 

TrlpilW Lan.-g Uf DFUiifrjHf, 
fl it!na<3c>K|MLrn:i 


' 

PnwiliiJU 


3 UnmiatpVF 


TCjlla 


'¦ Easi i n q 


river-usuit 


Pusan mu 


ikt ui [lie 


L^tor IflF 
i .•¦n(] ah,* ' 


• *" ' Mi s - -1 l-t L. L. 


GianI's PEaiw 


NailjlEKff 


Oje SbiNiNt; Plains 


ftlataviH 


O-nwatij 


W"SH l.^f 


LH?sl7ay| 


?*ii 5 


: i-4. 

' } J*$ 


n 

















oT7j?T 




iMpiltU 


Fire Rivun 


ftL-ach 


navrw's lu.irr 
irtw 


£ norite* 

¦t?u I Ik qlj 




I'nneaMpuii •* 


TfrunJ^qol 


Wa^Rock 


(Cl)e Inngu Sea) 


Dua^ON 


Whai 


¦CUKMiSl? 


WVilfioN Reac 


•fit >.' >*' ¦> I ' r-. W :.'- 














ZfjeNtil Keep 


(PRE-1568 DR) 


LoaiiDH licy 
i me rowt'R Hiuty 
3, tPr mack Aiiar (Xempic of hand 
4 - opr Tiicn Hall 

4- ITOf AncHi 
s. FZOUFS cowen 
6 . rnievEs' cjuiitiijaii 
7 " cpe force TjRitwc 
e. tcitc tesig n-Rtocs: 

o- trre cowei! of faIh cxallcfr fteMpie of LovlataR? 
ip. HiqH House of tljc HUNt JTeMplG Of Marini 
I I . SilVER TRUM]1 Ct ]WM 

12. CtfE Heroes" [test 
I 3. Opart I s toweR 

14. die EiqlES of life NorIP 

I tlJC Serpent's Eye 

15, ITIjc FRlOG OF ihcMttr Keep 

17, Reside NCG Of Lord I'Ayn'ADan 
le.Clje ClOVGN Ogre 

1 q. TTHC Axe a Kb [fge MiifolauR 

20. TTIJC Wpip walker's Cloak 

21 , Eije mack Avals H 

2 2 . Elje Roan in G DRAGON 
if. 'Cpe Last Stop 

24 . oje Goncy EycTieasi 

zs- 'crje sigieih Faces- Nowtp 

26 . [tesifteuec or Lotto Chess 

27 - ItesiOeMce of Lento PljaNbytaM 

26. ReeiCKNCF Of Loili) AMaKOOH 

3<J. RGSifrtHCE of JVtaCristRAlr OscoMVOn 

40. LpE Eye of tlje RftjolOcw 

41. StyGMCaRirw waRe douse 

43. ShvuLflaR ttantacks 
45. Slf^ntilaR arwoRy 

44. Zl it NCrluR guarUipust 

45 . 'CPe DxvirvEH CoUPIers 
4 *. CcitN'S SljipwRiqpl Service 
47 . Joseph's Locks 

49, ClfC Master Masons 

44 . Edwin'S MeHcaNlifE Inatwns 

40. HOUSC OF Stone S SworS, Meta Ism Uljs 

41 . UK Quito Of WooPcraFtERS 

42 . ClK Wlz&RbS' workshop 

43. cue CdClJRalefr EMDalMeR Moncc 

44. irue four Dwarf miners 

45. Residence OF LO"b Hast 

46. Leatocncttaclcits' Quito 
47- KesiOcHcc or La by Afitia 

4 0. [lEsiOenee of LOttO AUMrtaeven 

49. Residence or Lotto S&Olto 

50. Residence of CouMciltort UltaTpyl 

5 J. Residence of LorP Mansd Rcfw I Nile 


5 Ti n F-CLiJV!* 


¦ I TU - 
















Eagij_ Gajc 


HoatJ 


w 'NrcR 


£ tojj Srmrh'c 











Fonm^ga Sfiitd; 


sjjjBI M M In n| 

51 lied of Dcliyljts 


Elr|ilj*[rnN Way 













r-*T**i y iii ~JL* p Ire I. ;7* 

^ig'd'y'* r irfe 

fa"g 3 @Cfe" 

3 E- 1 ?* L's £ +1 uillB^f! 


LSVV,*tS ' 


!MCj -'-Ti. - 

! *= S5f*k fiSSW 




Vi,*"" |B '/JV# iS^ET * "-'iTh * J 


f I COMMON QUARTER 


FOREIGN QUAKCER 


I I INNER QUARTER 

I I HARBOR DISOTICC 






n 












¦jO. KSioeSc? or Cu-UMciaion Una!lj7l 
51, rccaiotNtc of Lotto Mattel} Bciwitrtte 
5 a, RfsIiK-Nfc of LonONacaff 
<yj. REsltwuff of Loito iiaiasiciE 

54. KCSitHTUrf Of OUGAUtlJ 

55. TOsr tcsl] Inn 

56. ILalfs Apoinrcan? 

'yj. KatllEtial] (Sftniwc of reMpusI 
S 9 . tyivionae Holy Ha]I of f,onQ FrutTuwr 
awO CasiHO i'SOulnf of T^MOttaj 




1 iNtf7 eguaie 200 feet 















¦y^j 


^Nlrn 




.g, si* 


Via 


! raf &c STncet 


mB 


!¦¦¦ 


V 


4fi^ 


'C'XTpl Strrec 

|g Vh 


>¦ Sflil'll ¦ 


WeiicJwNt Sl'niTtC 




.-:• ¦ •¦¦ .v-¦'¦¦'.;¦ ¦ V / ---¦-. - ¦ 

fe~Av^| ¦>.;¦:¦ . ¦; y • ¦• ¦; - 

\ .: .¦ •¦• i ¦ 


N O III ll 

route gaie 


Rivei * tresfj 


sourn 
roiicr Qale 


: : rv- 




'S' SlTJ-C^I 


,a c^ 

/n 

1 5 lt]£Hl AV€NU e 


r s: & It wave 


\ f C c^ rtSwCEl 






aW e1L 























NDtim 

zo.-*i <"ate 


Mooi 


aoiiiu 
ctflJi qaie 


Zlfent Avenue 




















' ; - 


• '-1H 


L-. : : . ' TO 


¦¦- ¦-;' --i 

':*ife*:v£Si 




'' ¦'is i-^ 
¦". 


i 995 rsn. INC, All Itkitllfr iICBCrvCOl 


¦; ¦ 


i 120XXX0701 nij"is ul Zhar*M Ktap 















1 






V 









c£ 
















Pm rfi 
r ^ 
1. 


z E c n := 5 

5 S ; f < p 


3 ) I 


c ^ 

II 

¦fl s 

z 


m "¦ 

a.i ^ 

n Q 
? - 

* 5 

E - 


r Foncc 


^ftiOse 


"'J 


¦*' 










* 





-m-¦_ 




! 


_ 





4 
















































































• 





• 





• 






















































? 









¦JH 
















Q 














































• 





• 





• 
















































































































i 































































gjAUasau Itv l HS3l 













¦*S 













'-fk 

U 














1 

- 

-- 




3 






(c) 



¦jj 

* 



[ 

: 














!! 


! 

*P 







































































































































































































































ItlVGR res!) 






ZpeNtil Keep l ^ 

(Post -1 3 68 DR> ' 





a 


? 


¥ 


¦ji 

-*s 


¦i 

* 

n 


u5 ^ ?Li:L £ 





































M \ 












(T\ 







u 

jp, 










? 

?B| 

uj 

; 

o 

n J 

Q 

B H 





(Post-1 36$ DR) 




































Ong &guatt£ - jo feet 




_ 













¦Mi 




















' 








. 

*J1 J 



















1 K 

or? 

>o 

0} 

6 

5 ) 



O 

0 






















v. 









w 

l*-l 



w 





/ 


















mu 


- 



By Kevin Melka and John Terra 

Visit the He a t of the Black Netoow k 





ADVANCED DUNGEONS 4 DFlMiOTtS. FORGOTTEN REALMS Pld MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM 
aro Ko-slcred IritdrinMrtei- um-vd by T5H. Ire 
Pie tsH logo '# * iiadamniH o"rcd by !rc ¦ :1"S TSR, feic. 

AM Rights. Pi-Mad In IhtlfS.A 


isr, l(tm):. 

LIU I hhcrid.m S>| ¦ ri iiy.^ ltd. 
L .nlit- [ icneva 
Wl n 3 H 7 
I LS.A. 


LSlt I .id, 
I2tt ¦flhurcJi F.n<! 
L'li. i n, J Liiuom 
Cambridge tlW 3I.B 
l ill' ll hLLnj-eEr-m 


SLiddio i:.s. 


ri 5 .w L-K 


Known throughout [lift Realms as the lwiuti)Mirter5 of the 
ZhcrtariTn, Zlieutil Keep has lung- been a trade hub, a scat of power, 
jutil a nest of -corruption a-L die edge oi the Moonstst I his boxed set 
details Zhcniil Keep in the days ol' Bnrie Lbe ISladk Ixard, before (bet 
Tiriie of Troublesr It also [ii'essenls the neiv Zheolil Ketp, a city nearly 
destrovccl by iSitt insane Cyric, l J rin(tm) of I.l&". 

l"h is campaign expansion contain sc 

A ISft.page sourcebook dotal ling the ol d and new 1 
/linii il Keep, the history of ihe city, the sinister Blad 
NvlWMi k, .uid import-isml villains. 

+ A 64-page adventure book with three new perilous 
advert tunes that take heroes into Zlientil Keep, under 
it, ami cu nearby communii ins. 

+ A Monstrous Compendium* Appendix booklet con 
taining 16 new creatures, 

-h Three poster maps depicting the old Zhcntil Keep, the 
new Zhenril Keep, and dm activities ol'the malevolent 
Zlwntarim, 

I :ighL eai'ds describing areas containing- some ol Lhe 
ITH.KSI nefarious Nl*Cs and monsters ever to be ivsswtHted 
with Zhentil Keep- 


Enten and bewawe! 












































