Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09252 FR 7 Hall Of Heroes"
See other formats
Nri(j| Gtimw AccitnifiAucf 


£ wm 

¦i rjncV AI3K.1J ^jfjrrx* HTfjts fuM rf jt j nwf-tfir.c-ffdr Ijw/twri urjrt ^ 
iff FORGOTTEN KEAI MS 1 ' rjc]fJHJs fine'! ucccfKsiilslA!;. ¦*. 





























Advanced Diinwocis&pragons 



Hall of Hercoes 


TabLe of CowTewTs 


Introduction .2 

Major Characters . 3-55 

Adon .3-4 

Alias . 5-9 

Bruenor Battlehammer. 10-13 

Cyric .14 

Doin Sanehiro.16-18 

Drizzt Do'Urden.19-22 

Dragonbait .23-26 

Elminster.27-33 

Kelemvor.34-37 

Prince Tristan Kendrick.38-41 

Midnight .42-43 

Robyn .44-46 

Shandril Shessair .47-50 

NarmTamaraith.51-52 

Wulfgar .53-55 

Minor Characters.56-105 

Adventuring Brotherhoods.106-128 


CizediTs 

Authors: Jeff Grubb and Kate Novak (Alias, Dragonbait); David 
E. Martin (Adon, Cyric, Kelemvor, Midnight, Mourngrym 
Amcathra, Shaerl Amcathra); Jim Lowder (King Azoun IV, 

Akabar Bel Akash, Cassana, Dimswart, Mistinarperadnacles 
Hai Draco, Zrie Prakis, Olive Ruskettle); Bruce Nesmith 
(Elminster, Narm Tamaraith, Shandril Shessair, Lhaeo, 

Rauglothgar); Steve Perrin (Tristan Kendrick, Robyn, 

Alzegund, Khelben Arunsun, Fzoul Chembryl, Cyndre, 

Daryth, Duman, Finellen, Kappiyan Flurmastyr, Grunnarch, 

Hobarth, Kazgaroth, Maaril, Manshoon, Manxam, Mirt, 

Genna Moonsinger, Orgauth, Pawldo, Nymara Scheiron, 

Storm Silverhand, The Simbul, Sylune of Shadowdale, 

Vangerdahast, Xanathar); Mike Pondsmith (Doin Sanehiro, 

Jinchin, Kuang, Masakado, Okotampe, Onoye, The 
Wanderer); R.A. Salvatore (Bruenor Battlehammer, Drizzt 
Do'Urden, Wulfgar, Alustriel, Catti-Brie, Dendybar, Artemis 
Entreri, Malchor Harpell, Piergeiron, Regis, Sydney) 


Editing: Scott Bowles 
Cover Art: Jeff Easley 
Interior Art: Ned Dameron 

Typography: Kim Janke, Angelika Lokotz and Betty Elmore 
Keylining: Paul Hanchette 

Special thanks to Scott Ciencin and Ed Greenwood 


TSR, Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 USA 



TSR Ltd. 
120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, FORGOTTEN REALMS, DRAGON, PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are 
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork 
contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

(c)1989 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

9252 ISBN 0-88038-711-4 


9252XXX1401 








































INTRODUCTION 


King Arthur. Robin Hood. Edward, the 
Black Prince. Roland. Joan of Arc... All 
of these people, whether or not they 
ever really existed, have one very spe 
cial thing in common -they are all 
heroes. As heroes, all of these men and 
women hold an important place in our 
culture, and our hearts. For heroes 
afford us all a roadmap to the heights 
we can achieve, if only we work hard 
enough and follow our dreams. 

What you hold in your hands is a roll 
call of heroes, and all of them call one 
fantasy world-the Forgotten Realms - 
their home. These characters, like the 
Merlins and Friar Tucks who are their 
literary great-great-grandfathers, show 
us magnificent feats of courage and 
wisdom. 

Sometimes, as in Darkwalker on 
Moonshae, the heroes are called upon 
to right great wrongs that threaten a 
kingdom. Sometimes, as in the upcom 
ing Avatar Trilogy, the heroes are asked 
to battle the gods themselves and save 
the entire world from certain destruc 
tion. The courage and skill necessary to 
succeed in these adventures is obvious. 

Yet, all the beings who fight for Law 
or Good included in these pages may 
not flash a sword with the finesse of the 
evil swordsmen they encounter, or 
throw lightning bolts with as great a 
fury as the archmages who oppose 
them. But it was not power alone that 
made Shandril Shessair go on, even 
though the whole world seemed against 
her in Spellfire. It was her spirit, her 
will to live and be free, as well as her 
amazing powers, that let Shandril 
defeat all her enemies. 

For the true hero, then the battles 
fought with the spirit are as important 
as the ones fought with a blade or 
incantation. In Azure Bonds, for exam 
ple, Alias' battle to control her own des 
tiny and understand her origin is just as 
important as her combat with the dark 
god, Moander. In fact, one battle with 
out the other is really just empty brava 
do. 

Of course, heroes have to be chal 
lenged along the road to their goal. Per 
haps they even fail for a time. Still, the 


grail they seek would not be as valuable 
without the doubt and hardship faced 
on the way to recovering it. And if they 
stumble along the way, that's fine, too; 
we don't really expect our heroes to be 
perfect. (Besides, they'd be rather bor 
ing if they were.) In the end, however, 
we expect the true hero to see through 
the troubles that block his path and find 
a way to reach his goal, whether it be 
Mithril Flail or peace for the Moon- 
shaes, by putting his beliefs into action. 

On this front, however, the hero 
would be nowhere without a worthy 
opponent, someone to hide the grail in 
an inaccessible place and try to prevent 
him from finding it. Heroes are nothing 
without villains to challenge them. 

You will find in these pages, there 
fore, the significant evil characters in 
our heroes' lives. These beings are 
often the ones that started the hero on 
his quest. In every case, by opposing 
the hero, the villain made the hero 
reach for new heights of strength and 
wisdom. 

Where would King Arthur be with 
out Mordred to thwart his vision of 
Camelot? Where would Robin Hood be 
without Sir Guy or the Sheriff of Not 
tingham to keep him working for the 
poor and oppressed? It's hard to imag 
ine. 

Fzoul Chembryl's search for power 
and Dendybar the Mottled's quest for 
the Crystal Shard are really just as 
interesting as the goals of the heroes 
they oppose. They, too deserve a place 
in these pages. 

Of course there are thousands of 
heroes and villains worthy of induction 
in to our Hall. Most of you have proba 
bly played characters that might 
deserve a place there. But for now, at 
least, the Hall of Heroes is limited to just 
some of the worthy of the Forgotten 
Realms. 

The monuments inscribed to the elite 
of the Realms in these pages have been 
constructed with care and diligence. 

Once you enter the Hall, you will find 
three sections of entries. First, you will 
meet the major heroes of the Realms: 
Elminster, Bruenor, Tristan Kendrick, 


and the rest. Included along with their 
game stats, you will find personal histo 
ries, background information on 
related characters, and even role- 
playing hints. 

Next, you will encounter the minor 
heroes of the Realms, those who have 
yet to play a central part in a FORGOT 
TEN REALMS(tm) story. You will find the 
evil characters here, as well, from Cas- 
sana of Westgate to Rauglothgar the 
dracolich. For these characters, we 
have given you game stats, brief charac 
ter histories, and role-playing tips, too. 

In the third section of tbe book, you'll 
find information on two famous adven 
turing brotherhoods: the seemingly 
ever-present Knights of Myth Drannor, 
and the Company of Eight from the 
module Empire of the Sands. All the 
members of both adventuring compan 
ies are detailed, giving you enough 
information on each member to run the 
group as well-developed NPCs in your 
FORGOTTEN REALMS campaign. 

That's one of the major reason the 
Hall was built: to give you all the infor 
mation you need to include these 
heroes and villains in your own AD&D(r) 
games set in the Forgotten Realms. In 
addition, we know you'll find the char 
acters you are not familiar with inter 
esting enough to want to read more 
about their heroism in the FORGOT 
TEN REALMS products you've missed. 
Finally, we've even thrown in previews 
of some soon-to-be major heroes in the 
Realms: the four heroes from the 
upcoming Avatar Trilogy, and the 
heroes of a projected Kara-Tur novel. 

The heroes you will find within the 
Hall will inspire the player characters in 
your campaign to be greater heroes 
themselves. Just as assuredly, the vil 
lains found within these pages will 
make your players strive to defeat 
them, if only to survive the encounter. 
Use the material found here wisely and 
one day your characters, too, could 
stand in the Hall of Heroes. 

Jim Lowder 
January 11,1989 


2 













































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Ados) 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 25 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (5'11") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fifth-Level Human Cleric 
S:ll 1:9 W:15 D:12 C:12 CH:13 

Armor: Plate mail, large shield. 
Languages: Common, Elven. 

Skills: Medicine, herbalism. 
Weapons of proficiency: Mace 
(ld6 + l/ld6), flail (ld6 + l/ld6 + 2), war 
hammer (1 d4/1 d4). 

Possessions: Plate mail, large 
shield, mace, war hammer, holy symbol 
(on neck cord), holy water (four vials), 
notebook filled with poems he's written 
praising women. 

Experience points: 25,000. 

Money: Under 400 gp at any time. 
Spells: Adon can cast five first-level, 
four second-level, and one third-level 
spell each day. Spells marked below 
with an asterisk are ones he favors and 
almost certainly regains each day. 

• First-level - Bless, ceremony, com 
mand, cure light wounds *, detect 
evil, detect magic, light*, protection 
from evil, sanctuary 

• Second-level - Detect charm, hold 
person*, resist fire, silence (15' radi 
us), snake charm, speak with ani 
mals. 

• Third-level - Cure disease, dispel 
magic, prayer. 

Combat: Adon's attacks differ great 
ly depending on the circumstances and 
whether or not women are involved. 

Adon prefers to capture humanoid 
opponents alive because the dead can 
not be converted. Since non-humanoids 
cannot be converted, he atacks them 
with impunity. 

If Adon is attacked while unprepared 


or unwilling to unleash his full powers, 
such as when he is relaxing or sur 
rounded by townspeople, he will 
attempt to use his spells to seize control 
of the attacker. Once the opponent is 
safely neutralized, Adon tries to deter 
mine if his captive is under mother's 
control, magical or otherwise. 

If others are threatened, especially 
women, Adon will rush to their assist 
ance. He will attack on sight anyone he 
sees abusing a woman. If this occurs 
within a community, he will use his 
remaining spells to make the malefac 
tor see the error of his ways. If this 
occurs in the wild, he will tie up or oth 
erwise subdue the malefactor to insure 
that person can no longer harm the pre 
viously distressed woman. 

Adon's weak point is women. His ado 
ration of them compromises his combat 
sense. He cannot move himself to attack 
a woman. Even if she is trying to kill 
him, Adon concentrates on parrying 
her attacks rather than striking his own 
blows. He always cedes the initiative to 
a female opponent. If he unwittingly 
kills a woman in combat, he will try to 
make sure she is resurrected as soon as 
possible. 

However, if his own female compan 
ions are threatened, he will fight com 
pletely unrestrained to protect them, 
battling to their side, then moving in 
front of them to protect them from fur 
ther attack. 

Appearance: Adon is in his mid-20s 
and has fair skin, light brown hair, and 
green eyes. Though he is plain fea 
tured, he does everything he can to 
increase his physical atractiveness. He 
dresses well and even keeps his battle 
gear shiny. 

Personality: Adon is very vain, 
always managing to catch his reflection 
in any mirror. He is sure that he can 
raise his appearance up to his high self- 
image. He is incredibly verbose; once he 
begins speaking, he is prone to keep 
going until every possible listener has 
fled the area. 

Adon holds an unswerving belief in 
the perfection of womankind. He 
believes each woman deserves to be 


atop a pedestal; even if she climbs 
down, he promptly puts her back up. 
His smothering optimism eventually 
drives to distraction any woman who 
spends any time with him. He is oblivi 
ous to his patronizing attitude. 

Relatives: Abrasax (father), Phylicia 
(mother), Phred (distant cousin). 

Allies: Kelemvor, Midnight, Cyric. 

Patron deity: Sune Firehair. 

Personal history: Adon was born 
the only child of Abrasax and Phylicia. 
He was raised as a devout, borderline 
fanatic, worshiper of Sune Firehair. His 
father, Abrasax, had a pleasing smile 
and a shrewd business sense, and was 
considered a genius of management 
and investment. Abrasax made several 
fortunes, which he quickly tithed to the 
Sune church, keeping only what he 
needed to maintain a suitable middle- 
class lifestyle. Phylicia was a gorgeous 
brunette with emerald eyes, a legend 
ary beauty with a quiet grace that 
would be the envy of royalty. Unfortu 
nately, she had a voice that would make 
a demon cringe, a flaw to which she 
was totally oblivious. However, Abrasax 
and Phylicia remained the darlings of 
society, as Abrasax's financial acumen 
made him every bit as desirable of com 
pany as did Phylicia's smoldering beau- 
ty. 

Adon grew up in the midst of this 
comfortable, pampered world, and his 
parents studied him to see which of 
their best traits lived on in their son. 
They were disappointed in almost eve 
ry case. 

Adon lacked ambition, even as a 
child. At an early age, he had realized 
there was little need to work if every 
thing he needed was provided free of 
charge. Study was equally meaningless 
since the gods could instantly bestow 
wisdom with their merest act. By age 
14, Adon was thoroughly set into a life 
of enforced idleness, punctuated by 
social activities and brief periods of eat 
ing and exercise. 

He had physical problems as well. He 
had somehow managed to inherit not 
one of his parent's attractive features. 
Rather, he was the spitting image of 


3 

















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 





Abrasax's distant cousin, Phred, a man 
who had turned out to be a total failure 
in the jousting fields of love. Adon was, 
in a word, plain. 

Abrasax despaired at the direction 
Adon's life was taking. The boy's pench 
ant for luxury was slowly draining the 
family finances. Abrasax found himself 
working harder and tithing less. Even 
the ever-doting Phylicia was beginning 
to flinch when she overheard the mar 
ket gossip about her wastrel son. 


A desperate ploy by Abrasax to galva 
nize Adon worked far too well and pro 
duced unexpected results. On the night 
of his 15th birthday, the jaded boy was 
transformed into a fiery idealist. Think 
ing it was just a phase, Abrasax intend 
ed that Adon would see the folly of his 
crusading spirit and finally begin to 
prepare to eventually assume the fami 
ly business. 

Instead, Adon came home and 
announced he would become a cru 


sader in the service of Sune Firehair. His 
parents were filled with happiness and 
regret. At 18, Adon became the young 
est cleric ever to graduate from the 
temple of Sune, where he was schooled 
in armed and unarmed combat. By 19, 
he was assigned to the temple in the city 
of Arabel. While there, Adon met Cyric 
and Kelemvor, and later the magic-user 
Midnight, and together the four adven 
turers became central figures in the cri 
sis of the gods. 


4 

































































































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


ALUs 

ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 48 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (5'10") 140 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Sixth-level Human Fighter 

S:17 1:17 W:17 D:17 C:17 CH:17 

Weapon proficiencies: All 

swords, dagger (thrown or wielded), 
mace (both types), ax (both types), club, 
dart, all pole arms, lance (all types), 
morning star, staff, weaponless combat. 

Known languages: Common. 

Features: Green eyes, reddish- 
blonde hair. 

Magical items: Magical tattoos - A 
set of twisting blue runes were once set 
into Alias' right arm. At first glance, 
they appeared to be part of a tattoo, but 
closer inspection revealed they were a 
set of magical sigils which affected Ali 
as' actions. The sigils originally bound 
Alias to the masters who created her, 
but with their demise, these symbols 
have disappeared. The pattern current 
ly is a snaking swirl of thorns and 
waves, ending with a rose at the wrist. 
The pattern cannot be removed magi 
cally. It will radiate a bright blue light if 
a detect magic or similar divination 
spell is cast upon it. 

Aldas' STory 

From the notes of the Sage Elminster, as 
told to the Master Bard Olive Ruskettle: 

Alias was created by a group of pow 
erful individuals to act as a magical ser 
vant, spy, and assassin. Alias was 
intended to masquerade as a human, 
but to carry out particular actions over 
a particular time. 

The original conception for what 
became Alias was by an individual now 


known only as the Nameless Bard. The 
bard was seeking a way to carry on his 
songs and stories beyond his death, 
without fear of their meaning becom 
ing lost or corrupted. To that end, he 
and his assistants created a humanoid 
"vessel" which was to contain that 
knowledge. The spells to activate this 
"vessel" went afoul, killing an assistant 
and maiming another. Nameless was 
brought before his fellow Harpers - an 
organization of bards, druids, and rang 
ers devoted to maintaining The Bal 
ance. He was found guilty of letting his 
pride result in the death of others, and 
for this crime, was sentenced to exile 
on another plane, deprived of his name, 
and, worst of all, all his tales and stories 
were eliminated from the records. This 
was at a time when the North was less 
populated than today, so such actions 
were within the Harpers' power. 

The Harpers were not as effective as 
they thought in removing all trace of 
Nameless' work from the Realms, for 
once something is thought of, it is diffi 
cult to unthink it. Eventually, a power 
ful southern sorceress, one Cassana of 
Westgate, happened upon the tale and 
discovered Nameless' place of extra- 
dimensional exile. He was held at the 
Citadel of White Exile, a rocky spur 
located at the junction where the Plane 
of Gems and the Positive Material Plane 
meet. Cassana rescued Nameless, get 
ting from him a promise to aid her in 
creating another vessel. Nameless, lone 
ly from long exile, feeling no loyalty to 
the Harpers, and still vitally interested 
in preserving his tales, agreed. 

Cassana was an evil sorceress and 
recruited others of her ethical ilk to 
perform the necessary magical opera 
tions. Nameless pushed his own doubts 
about his new allies to the back of his 
mind, glad only to be given a second 
chance to create his perfect vessel. 

Cassana's allies included Zrie Prakis 
the lich, a former lover who was more 
powerful than Cassana, but totally 
under her control. (Both Cassana and 
Zrie have their own entries in this 
book.) Using their magics, Cassana con 
structed Alias' body, and Zrie made it 


immortal. The Fire Knives, a group of 
thieves and assassins which had been 
chased out of Cormyr, provided most of 
the manpower and "acquisitions" 
required for the spells cast by Zrie and 
Cassana. A cult of a long-dead god, 
Moander, also called "The Jawed One," 
donated the energy needed to bring Ali 
as to life. Lastly the creation needed a 
spirit and a soul. 

Cassana contacted a powerful 
demon, through what she believed to 
be the demon's agent, a nasty-looking 
halflingish creature named Phalse. 
Phalse was no more a halfling than the 
king of Cormyr is a centaur, but was 
rather the demon himself, maintaining 
a ruse to spy on the others in the alli 
ance. Phalse was charged with bringing 
a pure soul into the mix, an innocent 
who would be sacrificed to bring the 
new vessel (which was to become Alias) 
to life. 

Phalse found his innocent in the form 
of the saurial paladin known as Dragon- 
bait. The sacrifice was marked, as was 
Alias, with the symbols of the alliance - 
Cassana's insect squiggle, Zrie's inter 
locked rings, the jawed palm of Moan 
der, the flaming dagger of the Fire 
Knives, the blue-upon-blue circles of 
Phalse, and the last, no marking at all, 
symbolizing Nameless. Nameless 
learned of these symbols shortly after 
he completed his task, creating the his 
tory and background of the vessel, and 
putting his songs within it. Upon discov 
ering Alias had come to life before the 
sacrifice of the saurial, and fearing for 
his creation's purity, he helped free her 
and the saurial. When the others 
learned of his betrayal, they impris 
oned him beneath Cassana's home in 
Westgate. 

Needless to say, the members of the 
evil alliance began to squabble amongst 
themselves after this setback, and their 
pact began to disintegrate as they 
began plotting to betray one another. 

Alias and Dragonbait flew across the 
Inner Sea, to Suzail, capital of Cormyr. 
Alias was semiconscious at this time, 
and remembers little of the voyage and 
nothing of her creation. When she 


5 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



awoke (at the Hidden Lady inn in Suzail, 
where Dragonbait had left her), she 
thought she had a "gap" in her memory, 
taking up the space between where 
Nameless' story stopped and her 
present situation began. Because Name 
less had not "programmed" her with a 
memory about the sigils, which were to 
have been hidden before she was let 
loose, it seemed to Alias that the strange 
tattoos had suddenly appeared. Associ 
ating them with her memory loss, she 
set about trying to have them removed. 

Removal proved a problem, however, 


because the runes were an inherent 
part of Alias' makeup and actively 
resisted all spells that attempted to 
harm them. Magic could still affect Ali 
as, but it could not affect the runes. In 
addition, the runes glowed a bright 
blue when a divination spell was used 
on them. 

Alias sought out magical and clerical 
aid and sagely counsel to solve her 
problem, and in the process, was 
brought into contact with the noble 
halfling Olive Ruskettle and the trader 
Akabar Bel Akash. Dragonbait also 


rejoined her. Although Alias did not 
remember fleeing from Westgate with 
him, he seemed familiar to her, so she 
allowed him to come along as well. 

Each of the members of the evil alli 
ance responsible for Alias' creation had 
a different goal for her. Her motivation 
to achieve these goals ranged from a 
"strong desire" to do something to a 
mindless compulsion. 

The Fire Knives desired revenge 
against the king of Cormyr, Azoun IV, 
because he had banished them from his 
country many years before. They pro 
grammed Alias with a pattern which 
would force her to attack at the sound 
of the king's voice. It might have 
worked, if someone imitating the king, 
rather than Azoun, had not accidental 
ly sprung the effect's tripwire. 

Moander's minions were trying to 
bring back the Realmsian incarnation 
of their god who had long ago been 
imprisoned in the mins beneath Yulash. 
From them. Alias received a strong 
desire to go north and to work the nec 
essary magics to free Moander. They 
succeeded in freeing their god, but 
Moander was in such a weakened state 
that soon thereafter Alias' allies 
destroyed it. 

Nameless placed his songs within Ali 
as, and with them the desire (whether 
intentional or not) to sing in Shadow- 
dale, in the heart of Harpers country, to 
show off to those who had imprisoned 
him. This too drove Alias north soon 
after her awakening. 

Zrie Prakis' motives remain unclear, 
but he was apparently unhappy with 
his undead service as Cassana's slave, 
and hoped to reverse the situation. Cas- 
sana was the physical model used to 
create Alias, and Alias had all of the 
youthful beauty of the sorceress with 
out her evil madness. 

Cassana herself opted for a more vari 
able plan. She tied her symbol to the 
power of her wand, which also main 
tained her power over Zrie Prakis. 
When within range of the wand (100'), 
Alias would perform Cassana's bidding. 
Cassana also saw Alias as a way of main- 


6 











































































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


taining her own immortality, and 
intended to possess the woman's body 
(after the other members of the alliance 
were dead, of course). 

Phalse was perhaps the most farsight 
ed of all. He saw Alias as the first "trial 
run" for an army of similar creatures, 
12 of which Alias and her allies discov 
ered, not yet brought to life as Alias had 
been. Phalse intended to bend them to 
his purposes alone. First and foremost 
among Phalse's goals was the full 
destruction of Moander, whom Phalse 
regarded as his bitterest rival. 

All the plans of the evil alliance failed, 
however, in large part owing to the fact 
that Alias unexpectedly proved to have 
a soul and will of her own, linked to the 
saurial's, but independent nonetheless. 
Thus she had developed her own per 
sonality, one which attracted good 
friends to help keep her out of trouble 
when she attacked a Wyvernspur noble 
whom the runes mistook for King 
Azoun of Cormyr. These friends also 
accompanied her during her quest to 
discover the meanings of the runes and 
ultimately destroy them. When she 
freed Moander's Realmsian form, these 
same friends (the saurial Dragonbait, 
the merchant Akabar Bel Akash, and 
the noble and highly underrated half- 
ling bard Olive Ruskettle) recruited the 
red dragon Mistinarperadnacles and 
destroyed Moander within a day. 

The evil alliance's attempts to recap 
ture Alias included attacking her with 
assassins of the Fire Knives Guild, a 
crystal elemental under Zrie Prakis' 
control, and a kalmari created by Cas- 
sana. All these creatures were defeated 
by Alias and her friends. Furthermore, 
these victories succeeded in further 
enhancing Alias' will. Unfortunately, 
during the battle with Moander, Alias 
and her friends were all transported to 
Westgate, where they were finally cap 
tured by Cassana and her alliance. By 
that time. Alias had already learned and 
accepted her origin, and this strength 
ened her character and her will as well. 

A second ceremony was set up to sac 
rifice the saurial and bring Alias totally 
under the control of Cassana and her 


allies. The sacrifice, held on the Hill of 
Thorns outside Westgate, was disrupt 
ed by an attack by Alias' friends, who 
had freed Nameless and come to her 
rescue. But it was Alias' own sense of 
will that broke the spell. Zrie and Cas 
sana were apparently slain in the battle, 
along with all the remaining Fire 
Knives. Phalse fled through an extra- 
dimensional portal to the Citadel of 
White Exile. 

Alias, Dragonbait, Nameless, Akabar, 
and the underrated but highly talented 
halfling bard Ruskettle followed Phalse 
to the citadel, where Phalse's full plan, 
and the duplicate Aliases, were 
revealed. The demon, which had aban 
doned his halfling form, fought Alias in 
his true form, as a beholder-headed 
man. Alias defeated him anyway, break 
ing the last visible hold the evil alliance 
had on her. After the disappearance of 
all the sigils of the evil masters. Alias 
reasserted her belief in part of the pur 
pose for which Nameless had designed 
her - restoring his songs to posterity. 
At that moment, in the space Cassana 
had left for Nameless' sign, a blue rose 
blossomed. 

With the death of Phalse, the multiple 
Aliases vanished, though whether they 
dissolved or were magically teleported 
is unknown. The idea of a dozen such 
women wandering the Realms, deadly 
and excessively competent, disturbs the 
thoughts of at least one very powerful 
person in the Realms. 

In the final summation, Alias has 
proven herself to be, not some automa 
ton or golem, but truly a human, with 
human emotions and values. She sings 
Nameless' songs, but changes them and 
creates her own as well. While this 
defeats Nameless' original purpose, he 
has decided that the end result is better 
than what he had hoped for. 

The reason for Alias' power, ability, 
and free thought is currently unknown. 
Nothing in the plans of Nameless or the 
alliance accounts for her free will. It 
could be the strength of Dragonbait's 
will which is linked to her own, or some 
unaccounted variable in her creation, 
or the actions or some unknown, out 


side force. The fact remains that Alias is 
as "human" as most of the natives of the 
Realms (and often more human than 
most). 

After discovering her identity and the 
apparent destruction of all her creators 
save for Nameless, Alias chose to 
remain a wanderer. She is usually 
found in the company of her partner, 
Dragonbait. She can be found through 
out the lands of the Sea of Fallen Stars 
occasionally as far west as the Sword 
Coast. 

Alias is an adventuress, not a merce 
nary. She fights as often for the cause of 
good as for any monetary reward. She 
dislikes organized law and rules, how 
ever, and will bend or break them as 
need be (and as Dragonbait will allow 
her to). She retains a dislike of clerics, 
which likely was initially patterned into 
her as a way of dissuading her from 
seeking clerical help. She still regards 
them as book-banging fools who know 
nothing of the real world. 

One thing Alias despises is slavery in 
any form. Having been enslaved by 
arcane means herself, she has a pretty 
wide interpretation of slavery, and a 
complete enmity toward those who 
practice or tolerate it. 

Alias is very good songstress, well- 
versed and trained from Nameless' own 
experience. Most of the songs she 
knows are ancient, those of Nameless 
which were suppressed by the Harpers 
as well as many others forgotten over 
the long passage of the years. She also 
writes her own tales now, and elabo 
rates on those she already knows. Her 
voice is perfect, and in the opinion of 
one humble but incredibly talented 
halfling who has traveled with her. Ali 
as could become a fairly good bard, if 
she could abide the training and disci 
pline. 

While Alias has the memories given 
her by Nameless and the skills provided 
by the alliance, her body is still new 
born and unhardened by experience. 
She will tire more easily than she 
"remembers" she did in her non 
existent past. Nonetheless, she has 
twice the endurance of a normal man. 


7 













































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Similarly, she "remembers" liking the 
taste of alcohol, but she has a child's pal 
ate and resistance, so besides not really 
enjoying the taste of most alcoholic bev 
erages, she is easily inebriated by them. 

Magleak Life 

Being a treatise on the nature of autom 
atons, golems, clones, simulacra, and 
other forms of magically created life in 
the Realms, with special attention paid 
to the being known as Alias. 

By Lhaeo, 

Scribe to Elminster 

The Realms are a magical place, filled 
with a large number of creatures who 
are capable of using magic (men and 
elves), those who have spell-like or 
spell-mimicking abilities (beholders or 
mind flayers), fhose whose origins as a 
race are the result of magic (owlbears 
and perytons), and those who are cre 
ated specifically from magic and 
enchantments. This last is the subject 
for this discussion, and includes crea 
tures such as automatons, golems, 
homoculi, some weapons, clones, 
simulcrums, and, at the topmost part of 
the scale, the being called Alias and her 
sisters. All of these may be referred to 
by the moon elven term of Qua'sioh - 
in Common, "made life." 

The simplest form of Qua'sioh is the 
automaton, a device which performs 
certain functions by mechanical or 
magical means according to a set time 
table. For example, there is a mechani 
cal clock in Luskan which, on the hour, 
displays a scene of automaton warriors 
battling against an automaton dragon, 
In this case, all the autmatons are con 
trolled by rods and pins running back 
into the clock itself, and the spinning of 
the clock's mechanism powers them. 

Another form of automaton is the 
Iron Cobra of Thay, though the origins 
of the creature seem to be from further 
east along the Inner Sea. This creation 
is an obvious imitation snake made of a 
dark, unknown metal. As opposed to 
being controlled by rods and pins, the 
iron cobra can react to simple verbal 


commands or track down a target. 

In both cases, automatons are consid 
ered at best simple tools, no more intel 
ligent in their way than a hammer, a 
pot, or a dagger. No one considers 
destroying a clockwork form or defeat 
ing an iron cobra or similar creature to 
be taking a life. 

The next step up is the golem, an mag 
ically created statue with a rude intelli 
gence, ability to follow orders, and a 
generally humanoid form. There are 
four basic types of golem, three created 
by magic-users, the forth by and for 
clerics. 

There have been experiments with 
other types of golems reported 
throughout the Realms, but these 
experiments are usually unsuccessful, 
short in duration, or refer to other mag 
ical creatures which are given the 
"golem" name (such as the bone golems 
of Calimshan). 

The three magical golems are, in 
increasing order of power, flesh, stone, 
and iron golems. The flesh golem is a 
reanimated and strengthened creature 
of human and humanoid flesh. Stone 
golems and iron golems, on the other 
hand, are statues created of the appro 
priate material. These last two are occa 
sionally used in siege warfare, but more 
often used, along with the flesh golem, 
as guards or protective devices. Iron 
golems tend to be larger and more pow 
erful than stone golems, but one of the 
largest stone golems is the Walking 
Statue of Waterdeep, which was cre 
ated by Khelben Arunsun to protect his 
city. The statue is 90' high, and made of 
gray granite. 

The one successful clerical golem is 
the clay golem, built of inanimate mate 
rial, much like the stone and iron 
golems. Unlike its magical brethren, the 
clay golem has a chance of going ber 
serk in combat and trying to slay all liv 
ing things in the area. For this reason, 
such creatures are used primarily as 
guards of temples and shrines in little- 
populated reaches. 

All golems follow simple verbal com 
mands, and are treated as humanoid, if 
unintelligent, creatures, and usually 


are considered the property of their 
creators. In Waterdeep, letting a golem 
create havoc will result in the wizard or 
cleric involved in the golem's creation 
being held responsible for damages. 

Golems may be created in one of two 
ways, either by investiture of large 
amounts of gold, coupled with a num 
ber of powerful spells cast by a mage or 
cleric of a particular level. Mages and 
clerics of lower levels may create 
golems using a manual of golems. 

Related to golems, but more primitive 
and closer in function to magical 
automatons, are beings such as stone 
guardians and caryatid columns. These 
are primarily used as treasure protec 
tors and magical traps. 

Another type of magical creature cre 
ated by wizards is the homonculous. 
This creature differs from the golems 
in that it requires a second individual, 
in this case an alchemist, to create the 
final creature. In addition, the homon 
culous is mentally linked to the wizard, 
knows what the wizard knows, while in 
turn, the mage can see and hear 
through the creature's eyes and ears. 

Being mentally linked to the mage, 
the homonculous is more versatile than 
golems and other constructs. This men 
tal link is 1,440' in range. If the homon 
culous is forced beyond this range, the 
creature goes into a hibernating state 
until the link is reestablished. 

Homonculi are relatively rare in the 
Realms, and then only found amound 
high-level magic-users. This is because 
the death of a homonculous will result 
in massive internal and mental damage 
to the mage to which it is linked, mak 
ing it one more vulnerability for a class 
which is already plagued by poor 
armor class, low hit points, and poor 
weapon proficiencies. 

Legally, even more so than golems, 
homonculi are considered to be an 
extension of the creating mage's body 
and persona, such that actions per 
formed by the creature are considered 
to be actions performed by the mage in 
most courts of law. If a homonculous 
steals, for example, in the streets of 
Waterdeep, the mage is held responsi- 


8 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


ble and must pay the penalty for such 
actions. 

As an aside, a similar legal approach 
can apply to a magic-user's familiar, 
whom, while not a creation of the 
magic-user, is a creature which is 
bound to the mage in a similar fashion. 

Such legalisms do not apply to 
enchanted magical items, such as 
swords and the like, which have some 
form of intelligence. The development 
of intelligence and ego among magical 
weapons is of disputed origin in the 
Realms, with an apparent plethora of 
methods used to endow these weapons 
with magical intelligence. A number of 
ways have been provided, ranging 
from extra-planar endowments by 
powerful beings to good fortune to cer 
tain dark rites (the last only used for 
intelligent weapons of Evil alignments). 

Whatever the origin, a magical weap 
on is sometimes endowed with an intel 
ligence and an ego. The last is an 
important addition, one missing from 
the previous examples of magical intelli 
gence. A golem or homonculous, it may 
be argued, has some mean intelligence, 
but lacks a will of its own. A magical 
weapon that has ego and intelligence, 
however, may enforce its will on an 
unwilling and/or unwitting user to fur 
ther its own ends or special purposes. 
In some (thought not all) situations, this 
may be a mitigating factor in an individ 
ual's defense, if it could be proven that 
the sword's will, not the owner's, was 
responsible for some attack or another. 
This responsible and advanced view is 
held in Waterdeep, Cormyr, and the 
Dalelands, but is sadly lacking in most 
of the South, which tends to hold the 
individual responsible regardless of the 
situation. 

There are two spells which duplicate 
the form of an individual - simulacrum 
and clone. Simulacrum is a seventh- 
level magic-user spell which creates a 
magical duplicate of an individual's 
form from ice and snow. Use of further 
spells (reincarnation and limited wish) 
allows the spell-caster to invest this 
form with motive power and some of 
the personality and knowledge of the 


individual upon which it is modeled. 

A simulacrum is an imperfect copy at 
best, as its knowledge is incomplete and 
it cannot advance further in ability and 
level. As a result, this spell is rarely used 
in the Realms, and then only for partic 
ular specific reasons, such as the desire 
to regain knowledge or power from a 
dead party member when there is no 
other spell available, or some deception 
is planned using the simulacrum. In one 
case, in old Teshendale, its ruler/wizard 
created a simulacrum of himself to rule 
the land while he slipped the bonds of 
leadership to pursue his own life. A sec 
ond wizard in The Living City once 
used a host of simulacrums as lab assist 
ants in his work. 

The simulacrum is a living, if magical, 
being, but lacks the ego and sense of 
self-identity to set its own course. As as 
result, it is dominated by its creator, 
who, if crafty, can pursue the ruse for 
some time before someone discovers 
the situation. Legally, simulacrums are 
treated variously as property, exten 
sions of the mage, extensions of the 
individual being duplicated, or new 
beings with whatever rights are grant 
ed to sentient beings. 

Clones, on the other hand, are cre 
ated by an eighth-level magic-user spell, 
and are almost always used to create a 
exact duplicate of an individual who 
has since died and could not be raised. 
This is due to the fact that, in most situ 
ations, a clone and its original stock can 
not exist simultaneously, and such an 
existence drives one or both of the indi 
viduals insane. This magical form of 
guaranteeing that one cannot be in two 
places at one time tends to make legal 
problems relatively simple. A clone is 
regarded in most civilizations as a legal 
heir to the previous individual's estates 
and rank, and is treated as the same 
individual, much like an individual who 
has recently received a raise dead or 
reincarnation spell. Clones have full 
legal rights, and are often used as an 
"insurance policy" for adventurers who 
are about to enter an area where 
escape and/or recovery of the body 
may prove difficult - including trips to 


other planes, suicide missions, and 
wars. As quests, curses, and geases 
transfer over to these new individuals 
as well, so too do any pronouncements 
against the individual - a clone of a 
man sentenced to death in Cormyr 
would still be hung, even if his prede 
cessor met a similar fate. 

This brings us at last to Alias, a magi 
cal creature which displays a high level 
of human characteristics in an individ 
ual fashion. The exact spells involved in 
Alias' origin are unknown, save that 
they required the combined power of 
an elder god's cult, a guild of thieves 
and assassins, two powerful mages (one 
living, one undead), and a demon of 
"name"-level power. It may be surmised 
that a clone spell or some variant was 
used in her creation, as she bears a 
striking resemblance to Cassana, one of 
the powerful mages. Further, unlike the 
simulacrum, Alias has proven that she 
has her own will, and in this fashion is 
similar to an intelligent magical weapon 
- capable of exerting her own "ego," as 
it were. 

Whether it was through the develop 
ment of her own sense of will, or the 
interference of the saurial Dragonbait, 
is unknown, but the control, while ini 
tially effective, diminished over time to 
the point that she could resist the 
power of those creators and make her 
self her own woman. 

This magical non-detection does cre 
ate problems for further research, as 
most divination spells do not function in 
regard to her, and the true seeing and 
true sight reveal her to be nothing more 
than an ordinary (or extraordinary) 
mortal. This may be because she is a 
human in all respects, or may be a func 
tion of the spells which created her. In 
either event. Alias has proved unwilling 
to sit still for extended research into 
her condition. 


9 


















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Bizu&kjok 

BaTTlefaAmmeR 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 112 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
(+ 1 ) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Head butt 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (4'6") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Ninth-Level Dwarf Fighter 

S:17( +1 +1) 1:12 W:15 D:15 C:19 CH:15 

As classic an example of the dwarven 
stereotype as you will ever find, 
Bruenor Battlehammer grumps and 
stomps around with a constant scowl 
stamped upon his face, and all the while 
sporting a heart that is both loyal and 
compassionate. He more than compen 
sates for his lack of height around the 
bigger humans with an overpowering 
and dominating personality. When 
Bruenor speaks, people listen; and 
when Bruenor growls, smart people 
find a place to hide. 

His brow is ever-furrowed in his 
scowling facade, bushy red eyebrows 
deepening the already deep set of his 
pale gray eyes. Fiery red, his beard 
stands out a mile away, and his long and 
pointy nose sticks out above it like the 
handle of a bushy mop. 

Actually, Bruenor is large by dwarven 
standards, standing a good 4Vz' tall and 
possessing a solid 175 pounds of gnarled 
muscle. There is a texture about him, a 
hardness that gives the impression of 
rooted strength, like mountain stone. 
Even his fellow dwarves shake their 
heads in awe of his toughness. "Sure that 
'is head be the perfect mold for ham 
merin' bowl or shield," they whisper of 
Bruenor - behind his back, of course. 
Not that they believe that Bruenor 
would take offense, and certainly none 
is intended, but they fear that if Bruenor 
ever got wind of the notion, he might 


just try it out! 

As with everything about him, 
Bruenor's equipment reflects this 
aspect of toughness. His battered and 
bent field plate armor, finely forged by 
Bruenor himself a hundred years ago, 
still holds strength enough to turn a 
giant's blow, and his shield, embla 
zoned with the foaming mug standard 
of Clan Battlehammer, has taken a thou 
sand hits. (The armor is +2 and the 
shield +1.) 

But without doubt, the most beaten 
piece of Bruenor's attire is his helmet; 
one horn is broken away and there are 
dents within its dents. That it still fits on 
his head is amazing enough, but 
Bruenor sometimes even uses it as a 
weapon. The dwarf can head-butt an 
opponent for ld4 points of damage 
while wearing the helmet, and ld2 
damage bareheaded. 

If Drizzt Do'Urden is reckless in bat 
tle, Bruenor is simply crazy. He wades 
into a fight face first, and is more than 
happy to take a hit if he can dole one out 
in return. Wulfgar learned this the hard 
way when he and Bruenor first met, as 
foes, on a battlefield. 

"Ferocious as his heritage dictated, 
though, the youth (Wulfgar) showed no 
fear, and Bruenor's hesitation had given 
him the first swing. With deadly accu 
racy, he slammed his standard pole 
down onto his foe, snapping it in half 
Tough as the mountain stone he mined, 
Bruenor put his hands on his hips and 
glared up at the barbarian, who nearly 
dropped his weapon, so shocked was 
he that the dwarf still stood. 

" 'Silly boy,' Bruenor growled as he cut 
the youth's legs out from under him. 
'Ain't ye never been told not to hit a 
dwarf on the head?' 

- from The Crystal Shard 

He is a slugger, snarling and growling, 
and customarily teasing his opponents 
with a belittling song or rhyme while 
hacking away with his many-notched 
axe. The weapon, too, is a product of 
the dwarfs own handiwork. It is +3 
and specially weighted to allow 


Bruenor to swing it with one hand or 
two. (Treat as a hand ax for one-handed, 
a battle-ax for two-handed.) 

Bruenor likes options and new expe 
riences. He'll often pull some outra 
geous and very dangerous stunt in a 
battle simply for the thrill of it, though 
he almost always winds up better off 
for the risk anyway. Once he tied him 
self to a boulder, then hurled himself 
into two ogres, tumbling all of them 
from the facing of a cliff. The rope 
stopped Bruenor's descent, and he 
taunted the ogres as they continued 
their drop to the bottom of the gorge. 

But, though ferocious and deadly 
when he has to be, Bruenor clearly dis 
tinguishes between opponents deserv 
ing an immediate audience with their 
chosen god and innocents caught up in 
the middle of something they are pow 
erless to control. Gruff and surly, and 
nasty as a demon to an enemy, 
Bruenor's true character lies in an 
extraordinary measure of compassion. 
He truly lamented having to cut down 
Wulfgar on the field that day, and 
moved on "shaking his head at the 
waste of one so tall and straight, with 
intelligent eyes to match his physical 
prowess." In the aftermath of the battle, 
when he returned to the side of the hill 
and learned that the youth lived, he 
chased away anybody who meant to 
see the boy dead. Then Bruenor, the 
warrior and hero of his clan, took the 
boy under his protection, and nurtured 
him back to health. Wulfgar had come 
to Ten-Towns with his people that day 
to plunder and destroy, but Bruenor 
had to discover if his initial observa 
tions about the inner character of this 
barbarian were correct. 

In the unfathomable scheme of the 
fates, that single act of mercy became 
the salvation of Ten-Towns a few years 
later. 

And a friendship of one-time enemies 
began that will live on forever in the 
songs of the bards of the Forgotten 
Realms. 

Of course, Bruenor is always quick to 
deny any such emotions, but his list of 
kindhearted deeds rims too long to be 


10 















































ignored and grows proportionately as 
the years pass by. He befriended Drizzt 
Do'Urden when Drizzt had no other 
friends, and when a goblin raid on the 
town of Termalaine left the human 
child, Catti-brie, orphaned, Bruenor 
took her in and raised her as his own. 
And Catti-brie did not suffer for any 
lack of love from her adoptive father. 

Yet even these acts the dwarf passes off 
as simple good sense, talking of the bene 
fits of having a ranger roaming the out 
skirts and watching over his clan, or of 
bringing in the orphaned girl because he 
needed a helping hand around his house. 
"Ye do what ye has to do!" is his motto, 
and he lives in full accord with it. But part 
of what Bruenor "has to do" involves fol 
lowing the instincts of a generous heart. 
He can deny it to the world, even to him 
self most times, but his closest friends 
know better. 

And though he is constantly complain 
ing, Bruenor is actually quite content 
with his existence and generally takes 
whatever hardships befall him as minor 
inconveniences - then fights back like a 
ravenous wolf against whatever, or 
whomever, is instigating the problem. 

In all the hard times of life on the 
frontier - the monsters, the rogues, the 
meager living - there is only one nagging 
problem that Bruenor cannot shake. 

He wants to go home. 

He was the son of Bangor, and the 
grandson of Garumn, king of Mithril Hall. 
Clan Battlehammer did not always reside 
in Icewind Dale, in the middle of the 
three-lakes region that harbors Ten- 
Towns. They marched in less than two 
centuries ago, a ragtag band of refugees 
simply looking for an honest way to sur 
vive. Bruenor was an unbearded child 
then, but now he is the last in all the 
Realms who remembers the splendors of 
Mithril Hall, his ancient homeland. 

Clan Battlehammer counts fewer 
than a hundred heads now, but at its 
height, it numbered more than 10,000. 
The mines, rich with the precious 
mithril, rang out in the hammering 
song of the dwarven gods, and even the 
poorest members of the clan had 
enough wealth to spend long, leisurely 
days crafting a single shining item. 


Their works were the rave of the 
North, commanding incredible profits, 
and their mines were so well hidden 
that no enemy could lay any claim to 
the rivers of the silvery metal. 

But the dwarves delved too deep, into 
holes dark enough to open a rift to the 
Plane of Shadow. And dark things crept 
through. 

The end came swiftly. 

And when the rout was complete, 
fewer than 300 of the 10,000 remained 
alive: the very young, the very old, and 
the very weak. They spent many 
months at the nearby dwarven city of 
Settlestone, awaiting word from 


Garumn that the mines were cleared. 
But the word never came, and any who 
went in search of answers to Mithril 
Hall never returned. 

And so the refugee road led Clan Bat 
tlehammer to Ten-Towns, and the 
dwarves set up their forges and 
worked for the fishermen. A sorry 
existence for craftsmen who had 
reached the very pinnacle of their art. 
The older dwarves died away in 
despair, the youngest forgot what had 
been. But Bruenor remembered. If Ban 
gor and Garumn were dead, he was the 
king of Mithril Hall, and his vow from 
the very first day after the routing of 


11 

























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Clan Battlehammer was to one day 
return to the secret mines and reclaim 
what was rightfully his. 

But the heartbroken elders of his 
clan, lamenting the despoilment of all 
that they had ever built, would not 
think of returning to Mithril Hall, and, 
thinking that they were acting in his 
best interests, would not tell the inquisi 
tive young Bruenor anything that 
would help him find the way. 

A passing century, and then the bulk 
of another, did not quench Bruenor's 
thirst for revenge. Yet he knew his 
dreams of returning to be futile, for he 
had no idea of where the halls might lie, 
and so well had his clan kept the knowl 
edge private, that no one at all had 
more than the slightest hints of where 
to begin looking. Many came to believe 
that the whole legend of "the halls 
where the silver rivers run" was a ruse 
to cover a marketing trail from some 
southern city, and many others, believ 
ing in the lost treasures, set out to find 
the place, only to return months, or 
even years later, wondering if the skep 
tics had been correct. 

Bruenor remained undaunted in his 
desire, but he kept patient, waiting for 
the opportunity to present itself prop 
erly. He was as fine a smithy as any in 
the Northland, and a worthy leader of 
his small band. And as Ten-Towns began 
to prosper in the marketing of the ivory 
from the precious fish, the knuckle 
head trout, that swam the waters of the 
three lakes, the dwarves did quite well. 

They fought many battles against the 
numerous monsters of Icewind Dale 
and carved out a wonderful complex of 
tunnels and halls beneath the tundra, 
and Bruenor engulfed himself fully 
within his crafting work, creating his 
own fine armor, shield, and ax, and 
many other artifacts that distinguished 
him even above the other skilled 
smithies of his clan. 

And then, for Wulfgar, the youth he 
had defeated and captured and then 
come to love, he created Aegis-fang. His 
gods blessed him in that task. A war 
hammer of unprecedented strength, 
Aegis-fang is a weapon worthy of the 


lost days of the finest magics, a throw 
back to the skill of the dwarven masters 
who once pounded the anvils forging 
weapons for the gods themselves. But 
for Bruenor, Aegis-fangmarked the end 
of an era. It represented the pinnacle of 
his work, the highest he could ever 
hope to achieve. And, satisfied, he nev 
er fired his forge again. 

And with the dying of Bruenor, the 
smithy, came the rebirth of Bruenor, 
the rightful king of Mithril Hall. He 
sensed that the time had come. His fel 
low dwarves thought him crazy for 
even thinking of leaving the fine life 
they had carved out of the savage wil 
derness, but respected his loyalty to 
their heritage and his rank among their 
clan, and volunteered to follow him 
wherever he chose to go. 

But Bruenor sought other company for 
the initial journey. His kin could claim 
their rightful place after the halls had 
been found, but the search required skills 
they did not possess. For years Bruenor 
had been teasing Drizzt into making a 
commitment to join him on his quest, and 
finally, with Bruenor feigning a deathbed 
scene, the draw agreed. 

And so the Companions of the Hall 
were formed, first Bruenor and Drizzt, 
and then Wulfgar, to their delight, 
pledged to come along. Finally (and sur 
prisingly!), Regis trotted up beside them 
on the first leg of their road, and the 
band was complete. 

Bruenor could go home. 

About The NoRtbLawb 
DcuARues: 

The glory of the dwarves in the Forgot 
ten Realms reached its pinnacle more 
than 1,000 years ago in the days of Del- 
zoun, the Northkingdom of the Dwarves. 
Primarily mountain dwarves, these stur 
dy folk battled through the harsh envi 
ronment of the Northland and carved out 
mighty fortresses and prosperous mines 
in the area from the Ice Mountains to the 
Nether Mountains, and betweeen Silvery- 
moon Pass and the Narrow Sea (now the 
Great Desert). They were a concentrated 
group at first, 150,000 strong and all close 


enough together to lend support in the 
first days, or even hours, of a battle. 
Though as plentiful as they are now, the 
various ore tribes in the region learned 
quickly to avoid the tough dwarves. 

"Delzoun was a rich and proud land, 
perhaps the height of dwarven power; 
its smiths crafted intricate and beauti 
ful mechanisms to ease every task; the 
great dwarven families grew rich and 
famous, and gold shone everywhere 
about the persons and homes of the 
dwarves of Delzoun. The dwarves 
ranged across the North, building 
homes for themselves and (for hire) for 
men, and their work endures still. They 
were a happy and hearty people. That 
is all gone now." 

- from Waterdeep and the North 

by Ed Greenwood 

It wasn't ore tribes or any other ene 
my that brought the downfall of Del 
zoun. The Northkingdom came into 
being out of necessity; in the untamed 
land, only mighty numbers could guar 
antee survival. But as the Northland 
grew more populated (though not nec 
essarily more civilized!) and new mar 
kets and trade routes opened up, many 
of the individual clans of the dwarven 
kingdom saw options open before them 
for greater prosperity. 

Several smaller clans drifted away 
from Citadel Adbar, the primary strong 
hold in Delzoun, but two major divisions 
rocked the Northkingdom beyond recov 
ery. Ironically, the dwarves viewed the 
expeditions as a good thing, envisioning a 
dwarven empire stretching all the way to 
the Sword Coast. 

The first division came about when 
Ilgostrogue Sstar left Citadel Adbar 
with nearly a quarter of the 
Northkingdom's population, 35,000 
grim-faced dwarves, his sights set on 
Mirabar and the claims of great riches 
in the area. By the time they had 
crossed through the mountains north 
of Sundabar, the ores were striking at 
them every day, and they were a ragged 
troop indeed by the time they reached 
Mirabar. They had left in their wake a 
toll of dead ores that could feed all the 


12 
















































carrion birds in all the Realms for a 
hundred years, but their own ranks 
had been cut nearly in half. Disillusion 
ment claimed thousands more in Mira- 
bar as they traded the horrors of the 
Northland road for a settled existence 
within the safety of the city. 

And the brutal trek had taken its toll 
upon Ilgostrogue as well. Denying the fol 
ly of the adventure and fighting to tred 
the deep waters of his own guilt, the clan- 
master was no longer content with Mira- 
bar. Consumed by his delusions of the 
grand dwarven empire, he drove the loy 
al remnants of his army forward, to the 
end of the Spine of the World and across 
the pass of Icewind Dale. 

Ilgostrogue died happy when he saw 
the sea, believing in his final delirium that 
his vision of the empire had come to pass. 
But those left behind him understood the 
true nature of their situation. Twelve 
thousand dwarves is a considerable 
force, but caught unsupported so very 
far from home, in a wild land where the 
weather can claim many more than the 
ores and giants combined, their future 
was not so bright. 

Councils were called even as the first 
cold blasts of the long winter began 
creeping into the land. The consensus at 
first was to return and set up around 
Mirabar, as they had originally intended 
when they had left Citadel Adbar, but 
Beerkanstrogue, son of Ilgostrogue, 
planted his booted feet squarely upon the 
ground and called for his kin to pay hom 
age to the vision of his father. And so the 
dwarves, loyal to the last, worked as only 
dwarves can work, and constructed Iron 
master, their tribute to Ilgostrogue, in a 
rocky valley not far from where the clan- 
master first looked out over the sea. They 
have survived over the centuries - their 
numbers dwindling, though, to the 
present 9,000 - making pots and other 
trading goods from the exceptionally rich 
veins of iron ore that they found under 
the rocks and the ever-frozen ice of the 
tundra. 

They have never forgotten their terri 
ble ordeal, though many of the details 
have been distorted over the years, and 
the real tragedy of Clan Sstar is the emo 


tional scarring the journey caused. Reclu 
sive in the extreme, no non-dwarven 
races are allowed anywhere near their 
fortress, and even their fellow dwarves 
share little with them now. When the 
remnants of Clan Battlehammer made 
their way to Ironmaster after the despoil 
ment of Mithril Hall, they were not turn 
ed away, but they were looked upon with 
such suspicion and disrespect that they 
would not remain. 

Even more tragic was the second divi 
sion of Delzoun, 300 years after Clan 
Sstar's departure, when Bunko Battle- 
hammer led his clan to the southern 
spurs of the Spine of the World, just west 
of Silverymoon, in search of reputed 
mithril deposits. In league with Clan Bat 
tlehammer, Clan Ironshield followed, 
building the city of Settlestone south of 
the mountains as a buffer market for the 
secret mines of Clan Battlehammer. With 
the mithril deposits running thicker and 
more pure than even the most optimistic 
tales would tell, these dwarves enjoyed 
unparallelled success for several centu 
ries. But the bright light that was Mithril 
Hall burned away quickly by a dwarfs 
estimation, and compared to the 13,000 
dwarves that originally left the 
Northkingdom that fateful season. Clan 
Battlehammer now numbers fewers than 
100, and Clan Ironshield drifted apart 
and faded away, with individuals finding 
their own roads and their own homes in 
the growing number of cities in the 
Northland. 

Citadel Adbar remains strong even 
now, with approximately 15,000 
dwarves under King Harbromm, and 
Ironmaster, under Lord Clanmaster 
Strogue Sstar, houses 9,000. They are a 
far cry from the early power of the 
Northkingdom, and bear a grim warn 
ing for the future of the Forgotten 
Realms, a testimony to the vulnerability 
of the long-lived races. Typically non- 
prolific, the low birth rate among 
dwarves and elves simply cannot 
replace the losses incurred through 
constant battling with the goblinoids. 

And woe to the Realms, for a barren 
place it will be indeed, when the last ring 
of a dwarven hammer is rung, when the 


last note of an elven song is sung. 

RoLepUyiNg Dps: 

Sometimes abrasive, always opinion 
ated, Bruenor is above all else, forward 
and direct. First impressions mean a lot 
to him, and if someone initially gets on 
his bad side, it will take that individual a 
long time to change Bruenor's outlook. 
No one will ever have to guess how they 
stand with the dwarf, though. He'll tell 
them in no uncertain terms. 

He usually has a sour word for every 
body, but there is a distinct difference 
in the tone of the sarcasm aimed at 
friends and those insults aimed at peo 
ple he does not like. When Regis slows 
down the Companions on the road, 
Bruenor might tell him, "If ye pulled yer 
belt over yer fat belly, ye'd find walkin' 
easier!" but if he didn't truly like the 
halfling, his statement would be more 
on the order of, "Keep up, or get out!" 

A DM must be careful in handling this 
character, and must always keep the 
dwarf's high charisma in mind. 
Bruenor is a positive grumbler, using 
his growling tactics to raise the per 
formance levels of those around him. 
He is never petty, and would sooner 
walk away than get into an argument 
over some insignificant issue. And if 
anyone, no matter their social standing 
or battle-prowess, calls him out over an 
insult, he's more than happy to oblige. 
His friends, and even new acquaint 
ances, understand that they can count 
on Bruenor to stand beside them to the 
bitter end, and this undeniable loyalty 
and strength, and a pragmatic bravery 
that leads him into battle against impos 
sible odds with a resigned shrug and 
let's-get-it-over-with grin, make the sur 
ly side unimportant. 

And anyone who is around the dwarf 
for any length of time might come to 
view his grumbling and roughness as a 
facade for the true warmness of his 
nature. Certainly his friends love him, 
his fellow dwarves revere him, and 
even his most hated enemies respect 
him and avoid the wicked low cuts of 
his fell ax. 


13 













































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Cyizio 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 (9) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 14 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
(+ 1 ) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: + 1 to hit 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC REISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6') 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Third-Level Human Fighter 

Fifth-Level Thief 
S:17 1:11 W:10 D:15 C:15 CH:15 

Armor: Plate mail, small shield. 

Languages: Common, Thieves' 
Cant. 

Possessions: Plate mail, small 
shield, long sword, short sword, dag 
ger, hand axe. 

Weapons of proficiency: Long 
sword (ld8 + l/ldl2 + 1), short sword 
(ld6 + l/ld8 + 1), dagger (ld4 + 11 
ld3 + 11, long bow (ld6). 

Experience points: 6,000 as fight 
er, 14,000 as thief. 

Money: 12,000 gp (as individual, 
mostly in high-value gems). 

Combat: Cyric is +1 to hit and dam 
age. His high dexterity lowers his armor 
class by 1. 

Cyric is cautious about joining in com 
bat; he is very aware that getting killed 
is a sure way to frustrate one's ambi 
tion. However, once he commits to the 
battle, he becomes a furious fighter. 

Appearance: Cyric's lean appear 
ance belies his strong, quick body. His 
face is equally suited to sly, mischievous 
humor or frightening dark moods. 
Crows'-feet surround his eyes, though 
he is only in his late 20s, and his hair is 
brown. 

He prefers dark clothing and strong 
armor. During his thieving days, he 
wore a blackened leather chest plate 
and carried a short sword. As a fighter, 
he preferred a combination of chest 
plate and mail. 

Personality: Cyric is mysterious 


and secretive. He is not proud of his 
past. He wants to bury it all and become 
a warrior, but his past keeps resurfac 
ing. Cyric is also a loner. He values free 
dom above all else and finds most 
relationships far too restrictive. 

Still, he has his good traits. He has an 
endearing sense of humor and a quiet 
eloquence that cuts to the heart of the 
matter. 

Relatives: None. 

Known allies: Adon, Kelemvor, 
Midnight. 

Patron deity: None. 

Home: Zhentil Keep (birthplace), 
Sembia (childhood home). 

Personal history: Cyric was born 
in the filthy back alleys of Zhentil Keep. 
He never knew his parents. When he 
was older, he pieced togther some of his 
origin. His mother was a young woman 
who was madly devoted to a Zhentarim 
officer. The officer rejected the wom 
an's claim of paternity and cast her out. 
She fell in among the beggars and 
homeless, who cared for her and 
helped her through the delivery. Later, 
the officer returned and murdered her. 
He sold the infant Cyric to slavers. 

Cyric was bought and freed by a 
wealthy Sembian family. They raised 
him as their son in a life of privilege. 
They were very forgiving and lenient, 
perhaps too much so, for Cyric always 
felt a bit different from the other chil 
dren. He constantly tested the limits of 
how far he could go. 

He was an intelligent child who 
devoured new learning the way other 
children consumed sweetmeats. He 
was most interested in geography and 
the customs of far-off countries. 

When he was 10, he learned of his 
background when he overheard his 
parents arguing about him. He ran 
away from home, but was caught and 
returned by a civil patrol. Cyric's angry 
protestations at being returned eventu 
ally spread the truth of his origin, and 
his parents became social outcasts. 
When Cyric ran away again at age 12, 
no one stopped him. 

Cyric almost died as he faced the 
world alone and unprepared. He 



became a cynic as he realized that 
everyone was truly alone; the gods 
could not care less if any one person 
lived or died. He taught himself how to 
survive, first in the wild, then in the 
city. He became an effective street thief 
and even managed to acquire a knife. 
He also managed to acquire the atten 
tion of the Thieves' Guild. When they 
kidnapped him into their midst, Cyric 
won their approval and support. He 
proved a fast learner in the thiefly arts. 

He went independent in his 16tb year. 
For the next eight years he used his 
skills to indulge in his one passion, trav 
el. He found that people were the same 
wherever he went. He cynically 
observed that poverty and inequality 
were as universal as luxury and splen 
dor. He became contemptuous of the 
middle class and the work ethic. His 
thieving filled a philosophical need to 
lash out at society. 

At 24, he realized that, despite his 
adventures thus far, he had not made a 
single mark anywhere and lacked a 
direction for his future. He returned to 
his past. Secretly returning to Zhentil 
Keep, he learned the details of his past 
and may have encountered his father. 
However the man was killed before 
Cyric could learn more. 

Cyric left Zhentil Keep at that time, 
convinced that he had to abandon his 
life of thievery. He became a fighter and 
worked for causes he thought were 
good. Over the next five years, Cyric 
was an adventurer of little repute. He 
was, however, happy during this time, 
as he enjoyed the freedom afforded 
him as a member of a wandering party 
of heroes. 

One of Cyric's acquaintances during 
those years of adventuring was a mer 
cenary named Kelemvor, who eventu 
ally convinced Cyric to join the guard in 
Arabel. There Cyric also met Adon, a 
cleric of Sune Firehair. Together, Cyric, 
Adon, and Kelemvor worked for Myr- 
meen Lhal, keeping the peace in her 
land. 


14 



































































































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Do)n SawehiRo 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 61 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (5'6") 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fifth-Level Shukenja 

Eighth-Level Human Samurai 
S:14 1:12 W:16 D:13 C:16 CH:14 

Proficiencies: Calligraphy, eti 
quette, horsemanship, reading/writing. 

Commonly used spells: Bless, 
detect evil, deflection, aid, trance, 
dream sight, castigate, abjure, remorse, 
cure critcal wounds, flame walk. 

The carpenter sees not the wood, but 
the sword within the wood. Likewise, 
the enlightened soul sees not the man, 
but the hero within that man. 

The Legend of Monkey 

At first glance, Doin Sanehiro is not 
the stuff of which heroes are made. 
While taller than most of the Koza- 
kuran race, he is only 5'6", although he 
is well muscled and has a full head of 
thick, gray-shot hair. His speech is sim 
ple, direct, and honest. His face is 
weathered and handsome in a rough 
kind of way - women take to him. His 
hands are hard from years of wielding 
the sword. An educated man, well 
versed in the classics of literature, his 
calligraphy is his special pride. His skill 
in settling disputes between rival clans 
earned him the respect of samurai 
throughout the kingdoms of Kozakura. 

In better times, he was well dressed 
(if not a bit conservatively), in the gray 
kimono of his liege lord's clan, pat 
terned with its distinctive hollyhock 
symbol, and wearing two swords of 
great honor and antiquity in his obi. But 
now his beard runs rough on his chin, 
and his garb is the simple robe of the 
shukenja. For a fatal battle has left him 
a masterless ronin, his swords dishon 


ored by the blood of demons, and his 
name lost forever among the screams 
of his dying companions. 

In his youth, Sanehiro was a cunning 
fighter, not a skilled one. His tactics 
were those of the battlefield and the 
wine shop brawl - he was just as likely 
to knee an enemy in the stomach as use 
his blade. His swordsmanship was the 
hard-won skill of hundreds of fights, 
beginning as a low-ranked samurai in 
his youth, and progressing through a 
lifetime of campaigns under his dai- 
myo's command. 

As he matured, Sanehiro's greatest 
victories came not through the Way of 
the Sword, but by the Way of the Pen, 
acting as an administrator and head of 
the Samuraidokoro (samurai board) for 
Kanazaki Province. In this capacity, he 
oversaw the training and ranking of the 
clan's samurai retainers, working long 
hours to ensure that they were the fin 
est possible. 

Sanehiro's battlefield experience 
served his lord in other ways. While not 
a brilliant military tactician, his knowl 
edge of strategy and practical warfare 
made him an opponent to be reckoned 
with. Even in the fatal battle of 
Kiroshina (which cost Sanehiro's lord 
his life), this hardheaded samurai's tac 
tical expertise enabled the Shiramura 
Clan to throw back the five of the six 
waves of attacks - no mean feat, con 
sidering their forces were outnum 
bered 4-1. It was this loyalty to his lord 
which cost Sanehiro all that he valued 
most - his position, family, and good 
name. 

Sdnehteo's FaLL 

The year 256 found the Shiramura 
Clan masters of the verdant rice lands 
of Kanazaki Province. Yet, within this 
year, stories began to circulate of a 
powerful opponent to their rule, an 
itinerant monk named Jinchin. 

At first, this lay monk appeared to be 
just one of many wandering holy men, 
espousing vague bits of theology and 
the occasional prophecy. Gradually, as 
Jinchin began to gather a following, the 


lord of Shiramura assigned several of 
his retainers to arrest and detain this 
upstart monk. When these and other 
retainers vanished without a trace, it 
became obvious that Jinchin was more 
than a mere holy man, and that his goal 
was nothing less than the absolute con 
quest of the Land Beneath Heaven. 

By the new year, Jinchin had gath 
ered a great army to himself. Originally 
formed of ronin (masterless samurai) 
dissatisfied with the current regime, 
this vast horde gradually began assimi 
lating even less reputable recruits: brig 
ands, criminals, sorcerers, and the like. 
Soon, it was rumored that the very 
fiends of the Underworld had joined 
Jinchin's ranks - there were tales of 
twisted, many-legged shapes which 
stalked the night, of terrible undead 
creatures and obscene meldings of man 
and beast. This was the legacy Jinchin's 
army left behind it, as inexorably, it 
crushed its way through the besieged 
Shiramura forces and spread a fell 
shadow over the province. 

At the battle of Kiroshina, outnum 
bered 4-1 and facing a monstrous host 
of oni, bakemono, and other sorcerous 
creatures, the samurai armies of Lord 
Shiramura fell, leaving the province 
under the iron boot of the evil monk. It 
is not known how Doin Sanehiro 
escaped being slain, although legend 
has it that he was knocked senseless by 
a mighty oni as he struggled valiantly to 
defend his lord. What is known is that 
on the evening of the second bloody 
day, Sanehiro staggered to his feet to 
find his lord dead, and the Shiramura 
armies routed. 

Convinced by a fellow survivor that 
his duty lay in defending the Shiramura 
castle against the encroaching armies, 
Sanehiro chose not to join his lord in 
death. Instead, he returned to find the 
castle destroyed, his family murdered, 
and the monsters of the renegade monk 
Jinchin crouched in the ruins. 

While struggling to reach Shiramura 
Castle, Sanehiro was joined by a fellow 
survivor of the battle, an amnesiac 
(who would later be known by legends 
as The Wanderer), and by an enigmatic 


16 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



young physician calling himself Kuang. 
It was Kuang who convinced Sanehiro 
to again forego his pledge to join his 
lord in death, and instead to devote 
himself to bringing about Jinchin's 
downfall. 

The Mowlcev 

Fleeing the forces of the evil Jinchin, 
Sanehiro and his companions fell into 
the company of two more travelers. It is 
then, according to legend, that Sane 
hiro first took on the nickname of 
"Monkey," in order to disguise his true 
identity. His new allies, Onoye (a spirit 
woman of considerable, if hidden, 
power), and Okotampe (a restless and 
argumentative hengeyokail, accepted 
this name (with a great deal of amuse 
ment), although they soon learned 
Sanehiro's true identity. 

Through his battles with Jinchin, it 
soon became evident to Sanehiro that 
his skill with the sword was no match 
for the monk's sorcerously inspired 
abilities. While hiding among the tenju 
villages of the west provinces, Sanehiro 
gradually was convinced to learn the 
way of the shukenja - a way of sorcery 
and subtle power far greater than any 
blade. In keeping with his decision, the 
grizzled veteran put down his swords, 
took up the three-ringed staff, and 
chose to be known only as the Monkey 
from that time. 

As a shukenja, Sanehiro/Monkey 
much resembles his old self, although 
his head is shaved in the style of the 
priests of the Way, and his samurai garb 
has been replaced by the scarlet robe. 
Two ancient swords adorn his waist; 
these however, are broken within their 
scabbards, relics of his old life and his 
last clash of blades with Jinchin. 
Instead, Monkey's strength lies within 
the towering oak staff he carries. The 
staff, capped with the three silver rings 
of his profession, enhances both Mon 
key's saving throws vs. magical attacks 
by +4 and his shukenja spell rolls by 
+3. 

Monkey normally wears no armor. 
However, in time of great danger or 


when facing a battle, he will wear his 
old samurai armor, rated at +2. 

Dungeon Master's information: 

Sanehiro/Monkey is usually found in 
the company of three individuals. 
These are the hengeyokai Okotampe, 
the spirit woman Onoye, and the mas 
terless warrior known only as The 
Wanderer. He will often be joined by his 
good friend Kuang, whose true identity 
is T'u Lung Prince Shin Gisen. In addi 
tion, Monkey may be found with any 
number of villagers or acolytes from his 


temple. 

Monkey is not a wanderer by nature; 
in most cases, he can be encountered 
within his home village of Tomobiki, 
located in the south of Shiramura Prov 
ince. It is here that he has constructed a 
small temple and dojo for the training 
of young shukenja. Monkey is particu 
larly interested in those samurai who 
have lost their lords through misfor 
tune or those who seek another path 
beyond that of the sword. His main pur 
pose, as he sees it, is to defend his small 
village from outside harm. Those who 


17 































































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


endanger the village or threaten its peo 
ple do so at the risk of his considerable 
power. 

If Monkey is encountered on the 
road, it is a sign of trouble throughout 
the land, something that threatens 
Kozakura on a grand scale. In these 
cases, he will most likely be gathering 
together a party of companions to 
defend the province or right a great 
evil. 

The BaizVi Spldeti (A GizbaT 
Evil) 

FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 18" 

HIT DICE: 12 
Hit Points: XX 
% IN LAIR: 100% 

TREASURE TYPE: Special 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2d6/2d6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Surprise, grasp 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 50% 
INTELLIGENCE: High 
ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
Size: L 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 


Magical Attacks: Web, possess, 
hypnotism, detect invisible, transfix, 
minor creation 

One of Sanehiro/Monkey's greatest 
adversaries is the creature known only 
as the Earth Spider. This evil spirit 
appears in the form of a huge black spi 
der, its twisted, multi-eyed visage meld 
ed with that of a screaming man. 

The Earth Spider ruled over the Land 
of Men many centuries ago, until he was 
bound by the hand of the Celestial 
Emperor into the Realm of Mirrors. Here, 
he and his foul legions of insectile young 
are trapped, unable to affect the Land of 
Men in a direct fashion. The Earth Spider 
must instead take possession of a living 
man and work its will through its host. 
This process gives the host great powers 
of sorcery, but eventually wastes him 
away to a non-living shell. 

The Earth Spider cannot escape the 
Realm of Mirrors unless he can contrive, 
in one way or another, to wed an inno 
cent female of the Wood Spirit people. 
With the consummation of this unholy 
marriage, he will be able to open a gate 
from the Realm of Mirrors, releasing him 
self and his minions into the world of 
men once more. It was to this end that 
the Earth Spider, through his host Jin- 
chin, sought to capture Sanehiro and his 
spirit companion Onoye. 

The Earth Spider may take any one of 
three forms: its original, grotesque arach 
nid form, the form of its current host, or 
(should it escape the Realm of Mirrors) 
the form of a comely male Kozakuran. 


While the Earth Spider cannot 
directly reach into the world of men, it 
can reach out through the medium of 
dreams. These dreams, linked to the 
spirit world, have great power. It is 
through this medium that the Earth Spi 
der may entice or entrap its host. Its 
power can also kill. 

Dungeon Master's information: 
The Earth Spider will rarely, if ever, be 
directly encountered by your player's 
group. Instead, it will work through a 
variety of agents and hosts. Killing the 
Earth Spider's host will not destroy the 
Earth Spider; like all demons, it must be 
slain on its home plane, in this case, the 
Realm of Mirrors. Killing the host will 
only serve to banish the Earth Spider 
for up to ld6 years, during which time 
it will actively be seeking a new host for 
its evil designs. 

The Earth Spider's most dangerous 
powers are those of the dream world. 
At moments when a player is asleep, 
the demon can attempt to reach 
through his or her dreams and attack. 
These attacks can be treated as the 
spells of mind control and power word 
kill, and characters retain appropriate 
saving throws as per their character 
class. The Earth Spider is the sworn 
enemy of the Imperial House; banished 
by an ancestor of the Emperor, it has 
never forgotten its enmity. As such, it 
will do anything in its power to cause 
harm to members of the Imperial fami 
ly, the Shogunate, or those loyal to the 
Emperor's government. 


18 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Dntezt Do'UndeN 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 15" 

Hit Points: 77 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use, critical 
hits (see below) 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Stealth (see below) 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: +2 to saves vs. 
magic 

SIZE: M (5'4" 1 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
lOth-Level Elven Ranger 
S:13 1:17 W:16 D:20 C:15 CH:14 

To have a black elf, a drow, roaming 
the surface world of the Forgotten 
Realms is a rarity indeed, but to have 
one championing the cause of good is 
rarer still. Yet that is the case of Drizzt 
Do'Urden, ranger and hero. 

Drizzt is of typical physical build for a 
black elf: slender, around 125 pounds, 
with long and graceful fingers that per 
fectly grasp the pommel of a weapon. 
While his black skin and white hair dis 
tinguish Drizzt among the surface 
dwellers, his penetrating lavender eyes 
stand him apart from even his own 
kind. Fiery orbs of passion and curiosi 
ty, their sparkle is strikingly visible 
even within the shadows of a low- 
pulled cowl. 

But though the coloration and inner 
glow are unusual for a black elf, the lav 
ender orbs are bound by Drizzt's dark 
heritage. In the night, they are as keen 
as a cat's, and timed to the dark, as are 
all of Drizzt's senses. He needs no torch 
to guide him, even in a lightless tunnel. 
But in the day, under the shine of the 
sun that his people do not know, Drizzt 
is at a disadvantage. Even when low 
clouds darken the sky, the daylight 
makes him dizzy and his eyes ache 
from constant squinting. 

He manages, though, and accepts the 
discomfort with his customary stoi 
cism. And his familiarity with the dark 
brings him an advantage as well. 


Because of his heritage and his agility, 
Drizzt can hide in shadows, move 
silently, and climb walls as well as a 
lOth-level thief. Likewise, his keen 
hearing, sharpened by his daylight 
vision problems, allows him to hear 
noise equally well. 

The statistics for his thieving abilities 
are: move silently 98%, hide in shadows 
88%, hear noise 35%, climb walls 99%. 
(These stats are adjusted for racial and 
dexterity bonuses.) 

When he left Menzoberranzan, the 
lightless city of the underworld, Drizzt 
retained some of the innate magical 
abilities of the drow. (See complete 
description of the character race of 
Drow in the UNEARTHED ARCANA 
book.) Two spells in particular, dark 
ness and faerie fire, often aid Drizzt in 
his trials. He normally conjures the 5' 
radius globe of darkness to cover an 
escape or to blind a larger foe, such as a 
dragon, and the faerie fire is employed 
as often for dramatic effect as to clearly 
outline a target. For example, purplish 
flames sprouting from the skin of a 
superstitious and magic-hating barbari 
an more often that not take the war 
rior's heart out of a battle. Drizzt has 
left more than one potential opponent 
rolling in the dirt in a frantic attempt to 
extinguish the magical flames. 

Not that Drizzt needs these advan 
tages, though. Few in all the Realms 
could match weapons against Drizzt. 
Deadly with a longbow, but preferring 
the face-to-face challenge of melee com 
bat, Drizzt fights with two scimitars, 
attacking three times each round and 
suffering no penalties "to hit" because 
of his incredible dexterity. One of the 
scimitars is a +3 frostbrand that he 
took from the hoard of Icingdeath, the 
white dragon that he and Wulfgar 
defeated. The other is a normal weap 
on, but equally deadly in the hands of 
the skilled ranger. So accurate are his 
wicked cuts, that if Drizzt's "to hit" roll 
exceeds the minimum required for a hit 
by more than 5, he scores double weap 
on damage and has a base 10%, plus or 
minus 3% per level difference between 
him and his opponent, chance of killing 


the foe instantly. 

For armor, he wears the fine chain- 
link mesh (AC 5) of his people, though 
its magical properties (it was once +3) 
have long since faded away under the 
light of the sun. The chain mail is com 
pletely unencumbering and unnotice- 
able beneath the dark green cloak that 
Drizzt customarily wears. 

He is a perfectionist, in combat and in 
everything he does, striving to attain 
the highest standards within his code of 
morality and self-discipline. Yet Drizzt 
is careful not to impose his personal 
standards upon others. Kindly and 
compassionate, he remains a valuable 
ally to all the Good races, despite the 
harsh treatment he usually receives 
from ignorant people who can't see his 
worth for the color of his skin and the 
reputation of his heritage. For Drizzt 
believes in the brotherhood of the 
races, human, dwarf, elf, half-elf, half- 
ling, and gnome, and always views the 
world with sympathy and empathy for 
the other person's viewpoint. And thus, 
he accepts his lot in life without com 
plaint. 

But Drizzt's outward calm and com 
posure are only half of his dichotomous 
personality. He is the peacemaker, the 
level head in critical situations, always 
willing to avoid an unnecessary fight if 
possible. But when all of the options 
have been exhausted and a fight is 
unavoidable, a battle-lust bums within 
the drow that makes even his closest 
friends step back and shudder. He nev 
er allows his rage to blind him to the 
most advantageous path to victory, and 
that makes him deadlier still, but he is 
ferocious in battle, a foe of blinding 
speed and unrivaled accuracy. 

Furthermore, Drizzt is a ranger in the 
purest sense of the word. Where gobli- 
noids and other giant-class creatures 
are involved, no fight is unnecessary. 
His friends sometimes consider him 
reckless; Wulfgar is fully convinced 
that Drizzt's daring will one day get 
them into a situation from which they 
cannot escape. And even Bruenor, fear 
less and stone hard, shrugs in amaze 
ment at his drow friend's daring. 


19 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



"The eager gleam in Drizzt's eye gave 
Bruenor the impression that the draw 
had more in mind than watching. 'Cra 
zy elf he said under his breath. 'Pro- 
bably'll take on the whole lot of 'em by 
himself!' He looked around curiously 
again at the dead giants. 'And win!' " 

- from The Crystal Shard 

But Drizzt, always calculating the 
odds and searching out the best possi 
bilities, trusts in his luck and under 


stands his abilities. If the situation 
presented itself properly, he would take 
on a lair by himself. 

And win. 

Drizzt was born and spent the first 65 
years of his life in Menzoberranzan, a 
mighty drow city far beneath the sur 
face of the world. He was a member of 
the house of Daermon N'a'shez- 
baernon, a prominent family, ninth in 
line of succession to the throne of the 
dark city. Though similar to his kin 
physically, except for his eyes, Drizzt 


learned very quickly that he shared lit 
tle emotional and moral characteristics 
with his evil people. 

He always hoped that he would find 
some redeeming quality in his people, 
some shred of evidence that things did 
not have to remain as they were, for the 
loyalty of blood ties runs strong in him. 
But at the same time, Drizzt feared that 
he might come to find himself more 
akin to their malicious way of thinking 
than he believed. 

"He had always known that he was 
unlike his kin in many ways, though 
many times he had feared that he 
would prove to be more akin to them 
than he believed. Yet he was rarely pas 
sionless, considering the death of 
another more important than the mere 
sport it represented to the vast majority 
of drow. He couldn't label it, for he had 
never come across a word in the drow 
language that spoke of such a trait, but 
to the surface dwellers that later came 
to know Drizzt, it was called con 
science. " 

- from Tire Crystal Shard 

Shortly after his 60th birthday, his 
passage into adulthood by the stand 
ards of his society, Drizzt participated 
in his first surface raid. Accompanied 
by a score of his kin, he crept out of a 
dark hole under the nighttime sky of 
the Forgotten Realms. Before dawn, the 
party returned to the tunnels that 
would lead them back to Menzoberran 
zan, but in their wake they left a massa 
cre of elves - male, female, and 
children. The horror that Drizzt wit 
nessed that fateful night convinced him 
beyond any doubt that he would one 
day soon leave his kin and not look 
back. 

It would be a drastic step, for Drizzt 
knew what type of life awaited him out 
side of the protective borders of Men 
zoberranzan. The final outrage 
concerned an associate, Masoj Hun'ett. 
Masoj held in his possession a figurine 
of wondrous power, an onyx statue 
depicting a panther. Vile in the extreme, 
Masoj often brought forth the marvel 
ous cat, Guenhwyvar, to carry out his 
senseless minders and tortures. Drizzt 


20 


























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


had befriended Guenhwyvar, the cat 
had even saved his life once, and he 
could not bear to see the proud beast 
lowered into such demeaning servi 
tude. 

It was the only time that Drizzt ever 
killed a fellow drow, an act that revolt 
ed him so profoundly that he vowed 
never to strike down one of his kin 
again. After his scimitar did its work, 
Drizzt took the statuette and fled, never 
to return. Guenhwyvar, the entity of 
the panther, became his closest com 
panion, sharing the dark road as often 
as the magic of the figurine would per 
mit. The two eventually made their way 
out of the tunnels of the underworld, 
surfacing on the southern slopes of the 
Spine of the World Mountains west of 
Mirabar. 


Guenhwyvar: AC 4; HD 6 + 6; hp 
45; Move 15"; 3 attacks: Id4/ld4/ 
ldl2, plus rear claw rake for 2d4/ 
2d4 if both paws score a hit; Move 
silently and hide in shadows at 95%; 
Never surprised. The figurine can be 
used a maximum of 24 hours total 
per week, and no more than three 
separate summonings are possible. 


They traveled throughout the smaller 
towns of the region, unintentionally 
causing a panic wherever they went. 
Several times, Drizzt was set upon, but 
understanding the protective inten 
tions of his misguided foes, he never 
really fought back. He would parry 
away the attacker's weapon and deftly 
disarm the man, then move along on his 
way. 

So he lived the life of the nomad, wan 
dering the countryside and getting by 
as well as he could, holding to his hopes 
that he might yet find a niche in this 
world. But the scenario always played 
out the same, and Drizzt took to avoid 
ing people altogether, shrugging away 
his pangs of loneliness in his knowledge 
that he was living by his principles. 

But even Drizzt had his limits. How 
long he might have survived in that 
empty existence, he'll never know, but 


the black cloud of despair inevitably 
found its way over him. Then he met 
Mooshie. 

Mooshie was old and nearing death 
even as Drizzt found him in his secret 
cave in a mountain in the Spine of the 
World. Blind, the hermit could not 
know that Drizzt was a drow, but 
Drizzt would later come to believe that 
with Mooshie, his race wouldn't have 
mattered anyway. 

What Mooshie gave to Drizzt in the 
seven months that they spent together 
was hope, a reaffirmation of his beliefs 
and principles in the form of a goddess, 
Mielikki, and a patron hero, Gwaeron 
Windstrom. A ranger himself, Mooshie 
recognized similar qualities in Drizzt's 
character and dedicated the last 
months of his life to training Drizzt and 
sharing the experiences of his long life. 
When Drizzt buried the old man the 
next spring, he resumed his nomadic 
existence, but with a renewed bounce 
in his graceful stride and a fiery glim 
mer in his eyes. In discovering a god fig 
ure in accordance with his own tenets, 
he had found a focus for his life. 

It was on the road outside of Mirabar 
that Drizzt first heard of Ten-Towns. 
The frontier settlements of rogues and 
outcasts seemed to fit with the roleinto 
which he had been forced when he had 
come to the surface, and with hope for 
a more normal lifestyle, he made the 
long trek around the mountains and 
through Icewind Dale. 

But when he arrived in Bryn Shander, 
he found little difference. Even the out 
casts of the mainstream society were 
not quick to welcome a drow, and once 
again Drizzt was relegated to the 
periphery of the communities. He 
patrolled the borders of the towns, liv 
ing in a series of caves and shelters that 
he constructed, and keeping a vigilant, 
though unappreciated guard against 
the intrusions of the wild. 

Then one day Drizzt came upon a bat 
tle on the open tundra. He rushed to the 
aid of a dwarf locked in combat with a 
tundra yeti. By the time he got there, 
the monster was dead on the ground 
and the dwarf, Bruenor Battlehammer, 


was already hard at work skinning it. 
Still, the gesture did not slip past unno 
ticed. Certainly no love exists between 
the dwarven and drow races, but Clan 
Battlehammer of Icewind Dale, and 
Bruenor in particular, put more store in 
a person's actions than in what others 
tell them a person's actions will be. To 
the nine hells with the reputation of the 
dark elves, Bruenor had found a coura 
geous and loyal ally that day on the 
field. 

And Drizzt, at last, had found a 
friend. 

As the years passed in Ten-Towns, 
and Drizzt's list of heroic deeds contin 
ued to grow, and the true nature of his 
character began to shine clearly 
through the predjudiced veil of his dark 
heritage, others began to see his worth. 
He still found himself shunned by the 
vast majority, but Drizzt made several 
trusted friends, most notably Regis, 
Wulfgar, and Catti-brie. 

Let the rest of the world think what 
they may, he has his faith, his cat, and 
his friends. 

Okj The Drzouu Elves 

The drow elves, sometimes called the 
night elves, are not often seen by the 
surface-dwelling races of the Forgotten 
Realms. This invisibility has led many of 
the peoples, especially the short-lived 
humans, to question the very existence 
of the drow, or at least to believe that 
the dark elves have dwindled and faded 
away to be of no serious threat. 

These assumptions are foolish and 
possibly dangerous. Drow rarely 
appear on the surface simply because 
they truly prefer their dark caverns in 
the depths of the world. They do come 
to the surface occasionally (and exactly 
how often may never be known, for 
they usually disguise their cruel raids to 
look like a goblinoid strike, and it is very 
rare that a witness would survive), but 
driven under by their surface cousins 
thousands of years ago, they have accli 
mated themselves to the mysterious 
underworld and, for the most part, 
have lost all desire for the open sky and 


21 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


the feel of the wind on their faces. 

And this is a good thing for the sur 
face dwellers! 

Far from fading away, the black elves 
thrive in the underground realm. Men- 
zoberranzan is only the third largest of 
the eight reputed draw cities (and there 
may be more), and the drow in Drizzt's 
former home number more than 
40,000. And given the brutal nature of 
the underworld, and particularly of 
drow society, even the weakest of the 
black elf citizenry is formidable by the 
softer standards of the surface. Fur 
thermore, drow are skilled in the arts 
of magic, and especially adept at 
destructive magics and in dealing with 
creatures from other planes of exist 
ence. They count many demons among 
their sinister allies. 

The threat of the drow may forever 
remain a potential disaster. They are 
chaotic in the extreme, and while some 
may want revenge upon their surface 
cousins or to expand their domain 
above the ground, many others are 
quite content to remain in their dark 
cities and have no ambition to ever 
return to the surface. 

And one of the realities of the class- 
structured society of the drow is 
"advancement by elimination." A drow 
city is ruled by a family, with a succes 
sion line of other, rival families extend 
ing all the way back to the peasants. A 
family betters its position on the succes 
sion ladder by weakening a family 
ranked above it, probably through 
assassination or a technique called 
Cuel'a'cul. CueTa'cul involves laying a 
series of lies and false evidence against 
a target family designed to bring the 
wrath of a more powerful family, or 
families, crashing down upon it. It is a 
dangerous practice, for if the deception 
is exposed, all of the other parties unite 
against the perpetrating family and 
wipe it out. 

But the privileges of rank in the dark 
cities are great indeed, and under the 
constant temptation of advancement, 
the practice continues. Perhaps the 
most successful CueTa'cul was executed 
by Drizzt's own family, Daermon 


N'a'shezbaernon. The house of Hau'fe- 
lesse, two rungs on the ladder above 
Drizzt's family, came into the disfavor 
of D'everdun, the ruling family of the 
city, over a land dispute. Daermon 
N'a'shezbaernon, with no ties, good or 
bad, to Hau'felesse, but always ready to 
seize an opportunity for advancement, 
saw his family's chance. 

First they murdered a member of the 
house of D'everdun and laid an intri 
cate web of clues to point toward still a 
fourth family. Then they underlaid a 
second series of clues, more obscure, 
but not beyond the eye of the ruling 
family's vast network of informants, 
that belied the first set of evidence and 
made the whole scam appear to be a 
CueTa'cul attempt by Hau'felesse 
against the fourth family. 

The house of Hau'felesse no longer 
exists. 

But even with all of the well-earned 
paranoia, the threat of the drow 
remains substantial. If a mighty leader 
could unite them through sheer 
strength - and their demon goddess, 
Lolth, is a concern, though she is as cha 
otic as they - she would have a power 
ful force at her disposal. Perhaps not 
powerful enough to conquer the For 
gotten Realms, but certainly a deadly 
strike force and nucleus of her dark 
army. 

So a word of warning to short-lived 
humans whose beliefs tend to stem only 
from personal experience: 

Don't forget the drow! 

RoLepLayiNg T )ps 

Drizzt is very reserved around stran 
gers, quietly observing newcomers 
from the perimeters of their conversa 
tions. Player characters might even 
think him a snob, though in truth, he is 
merely defending himself against the 
heartaches of false expectations. It 
takes Drizzt a long time, not to trust in 
someone else, but to believe that some 
one else will trust in him. His defense 
against the realities of the drow reputa 
tion is seclusion, and his group of 
friends remains a select few. 


But there is plenty of untapped love 
and friendship within Drizzt, and he 
would happily accept a new friend, pro 
viding he is convinced that the person 
accepts him for what he is and shares 
his viewpoints on morality. Minor indis 
cretions can be tolerated - after all, 
Drizzt is a friend of Regis! - but any 
attitude of bullying or bringing harm or 
grief to someone for no justifiable rea 
son would invoke the draw's wrath. At 
the least, he would simply depart from 
the party. If he saw worth in other 
members of the group, he would either 
warn the instigator to change his 
behavior, dismiss the offending individ 
ual from the party, or leave the rogue 
dead on a field of honor, depending 
upon the seriousness of the offense. In 
no instances will Drizzt compromise his 
principles or tolerate a malicious indi 
vidual, unless he is merely buying time 
for a better opportunity to strike back 
for the cause of good. 

In battle, Drizzt always seeks the 
most advantageous route and method 
of attack. He inspires companions to 
new levels with his skill and fearless 
ness, and would willingly sacrifice him 
self to save an ally. He would willingly 
return to die beside a friend rather 
than run away, as long as even the tini 
est sliver of hope remained. 

Away from the battlefield, Drizzt is 
more vulnerable. But far from an easy 
mark for a confidence scam, he is ever- 
wary and always anticipating the 
worst, even if he presents an aura of 
optimism. A character might find a way 
to sting him emotionally, and wouldn't 
likely be punished for the act. (Unless 
Wulfgar or Bruenor got wind of it.) But 
someone feigning friendship in order to 
get an easy strike at the drow is likely to 
be the one surprised. 

And pity he who incurs the wrath of 
Drizzt Do'Urden! 


22 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Dj^AgoMbaft 

ARMOR CLASS: 5 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 50 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 50% (with sword) 

SIZE: M (4'10", 150 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Seventh-Level Saurial "Paladin" 

S:15 1:14 W:16 D:13 C:17 CH:4 (18) 

Weapon proficiencies: Crossbow, 
bastard sword, long sword, two- 
handed sword, battle-ax, weaponless 
combat, saurial broad sword (Id8/ldl0 
damage). 

Magical items: Magical tattoos - As 
for Alias; " Holy avenger" (+ 5 sword) - 
This oddly shaped sword was Dragon- 
bait's chief weapon in his adventures 
with Alias. It has a wide, top-heavy 
blade with jagged teeth and a short han 
dle and functions as a holy avenger 
sword, providing a magic resistance of 
50% in a 5' radius, dispelling magic at 
the same level as the wielder, and 
inflicting +10 hit points of damage to 
Chaotic Evil opponents. To all others, it 
functions as a +2 sword. Humans in 
particular will find this sword difficult 
to wield, and as such are -2 with it, 
regardless of its magical bonus, until 
proficiency with the weapon (technical 
ly a "saurial broad sword") is gained. 

DRagowbafTs Stony 

(From the notes of Elminster, trans- 
la ted (without his permission) to the 
vernacular by Olive Ruskettle.) 

Dragonbait is a saurial, a race of senti 
ent lizard-like creatures who are not 
native to the Realms, but rather come 
from an alternate material plane. Dra 
gonbait is the first known saurial in the 
Realms, and the only one (known, that 
is - the Realms is a wide place, and who 
knows what can turn up in the Jungles 
of Chult). Saurials are bipedal reptilian 


creatures similar to the Realmsian dino 
saur, but as intelligent as mankind (and 
in Dragonbait's case, more intelligent 
than most). 

Dragonbait is short, with a blunted 
muzzle, powerful, peglike teeth, green 
scales, and yellow eyes. A single fin 
grows from the back on his head. He 
wears clothes, though it is not known 
whether he does so out of modesty or 
needs to for protection. 

Dragonbait's culture is apparently 
similar to that of the Realms, such that 
the creature has made the transfer 
between the two worlds with a mini 
mum of personal shock. Then again, 
Dragonbait may just be a quick learner 
and easily adapatable to new situations. 
He appears to have an intuitive grasp of 
human nature as well, able to approach 
individuals in a non-threatening fash 
ion, and get his point across without 
words. 

Dragonbait is apparently mute, save 
for some growls and guttural snorts. In 
actuality, his race has a very highly 
developed sense of smell, and commu 
nicates by scent in the same fashion as 
humanoid races of the Realms use 
voice. These scents are easily picked up 
and translated by other saurials, and by 
dragons as well, pointing out a possible 
connection between the two. To normal 
humans, a saurial must "shout" a scent 
to be understood, and then only the 
very basics of emotion are transmitted 
by smell. 

Dragonbait's known scents are: brim 
stone: confusion, roses: sadness, lemon: 
pleasure/joy, baked bread: anger, vio 
lets: danger/fear, honeysuckle: 
tendernesss/concern, wood smoke: 
devotion/piety, tar: victory/celebration, 
and ham: nervousness/worry. There 
are others as yet unrevealed. 

Dragonbait has turned his inability to 
communicate properly in the Realms to 
his advantage by appearing to be less 
than he really is. He understands Com 
mon though he cannot speak it. Many 
assume that his inability to communi 
cate equals an inability to comprehend. 
Dragonbait does not correct them on 
this matter. 


The name "Dragonbait" was given to 
him by the warrior Alias soon after her 
awakening (see Alias). Originally meant 
as a threat ("One wrong move and 
you're dragon bait, understand?"), the 
saurial took this as his name. The comi 
cal appellation further adds to the crea- 
ture's apparent harmlessness. 
Dragonbait's true name is a combina 
tion of scents and subsonic guttural 
clicks. The dragon Mist knew it, but 
died without passing on that knowl 
edge. 

In his own world, Dragonbait is a holy 
fighter who crusades for good. In that 
respect, and in many of the abilities he 
shows, he is a "paladin." The quotation 
marks are noted only because Dragon 
bait is obviously non-human, and in the 
Realms (at least), only humans can be 
true paladins. Dragonbait does exhibit 
many paladin-type powers, including: 

• Saving throws at +2; 

• Immunity to all disease; 

• Laying on hands for 14 points heal 
ing per day; 

• Detect evil, up to 60' distance - in 
Dragonbait's case, this ability (called 
the Shen-state) doesn't detect evil so 
much as it reveals a know alignment, 
showing colors for the various align 
ments, with the intensity of those col 
ors showing the strength of those 
alignments; 

• Wielding his world's equivalent of a 
holy sword. 

Unlike paladins, Dragonbait can 
not: 

• Radiate protection from evil; 

• Turn undead as a cleric; 

• Use clerical spells. 

It is unknown if Dragonbait can sum 
mon the equivalent of a paladin's 
mount, and in what form that mount 
would appear. 

Dragonbait's home world and native 
dimension are unknown to any in the 
Realms, and he will not divulge that 
information. He was captured by the 
demon Phalse while on a mission in the 
Abyss, so that even Phalse and his alli 
ance do not know his origin. He was 
imprisoned by Phalse, tbe sorceress 
Cassana, the lich Zrie Prakis, members 


23 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



of the Fire Knives and minions of Moan- 
der and was to be used as a sacrifice, 
with his death activating the form of a 
living slave, Alias. 

Something, as yet unrevealed, went 
wrong in their plans, and Alias revived 
early. Dragonbait helped the semicon 
scious woman to escape, and pair fled 
to Suzail, in Cormyr. Using his shen abil 
ities, Dragonbait determined that while 
Alias was the creation of an evil alli 
ance, she was basically good, with the 
potential for becoming either good or 
evil. 


Dragonbait had promised 
he would remain with Alias and protect 
her, but the saurial would have likely 
done so in any event. The pair shared 
the same curse in the form of the tattoo. 
In addition, Dragonbait sensed a poten 
tial for good in the warrior. Posing as a 
humble servant, Dragonbait aided Ali 
as, the mage Akabar, and the halfling 
thief (bard!) Olive Ruskettle in their 
adventures. 


When the evil alliance recaptured Ali 
as and Dragonbait, it was the swords- 


woman's and the saurial's combined 
will that finally broke the spell binding 
her to her makers. The alliance was 
defeated, but at a cost - in the final bat 
tle with Phalse, Alias lost Dragonbait's 
holy sword when both Phalse and the 
sword were pitched into the Positive 
Material Plane and exploded. 

Dragonbait now carries a non- 
magical version of his saurial blade and 
continues to accompany Alias in her 
adventures through the Realms. 
Though Alias (and several others, 
including Elminster) know of Dragon- 
bait's true nature, he continues to play 
the part of humble servant, leaping into 
action as a true warrior only when nec 
essary. In the case of Dragonbait, it can 
be truly stated that paladinhood is 
proven more by actions than by words. 


Notes on SaurUIs 

Dragonbait is a saurial, one of a race 
of extra-dimensional creatures from an 
alternate Prime Material Plane. Little is 
known of this plane, and what follows 
is pure speculation on the basis of inter 
views (such as they are) with the 
saurial, careful research, and wild 
guesses. 

What we laughingly call higher senti 
ence in mammalian life does not appar 
ently exist in Dragonbait's plane. 
Instead, the lizardish, dragonish, and 
dinosaurian creatures of his dimension 
fill the niches vacated by man, goblin, 
ore, pixie, and other similar creatures. 
Whereas the lizard man is restricted to 
his fetid swamps here, the troglodyte to 
his underground mazes, and the 
dragons to far-off peaks, in Dragon- 
bait's home, they are the norm, perhaps 
the ancestors of the modem saurials. A 
lizard man may be related to a saurial in 
much the same way as an ore is to a 
man - a similarity of form and function 
and perhaps a common place of origin. 

In any event, Dragonbait's culture is 
on a par with any in the Realms, and in 
some areas (such as ethics), could even 
be further evolved than those in 
Faerun. Their craft in both steel and 
magic is demonstrated by the quality of 


24 






















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Dragonbait's sword, which in addition 
to being a fine weapon, was perfectly 
shaped for his smaller hands. 

Saurials have vision on the par with 
humans, extending down into the infra 
red range. It is their sense of smell that 
is truly remarkable, such that they use 
scents to communicate. The scents 
used by Dragonbait are noted above, 
and may or may not apply to other 
saurials. There may be different saurial 
languages and dialects, but this is 
unlikely, as the dragon Mist readily 
picked up the challenge of Dragonbait 
in his own "tongue." 

Saurials are proficient with their own 
weapons, equivalents of those found in 
most of the Realms. The saurial broad 
sword used by Dragonbait, for exam 
ple, is broader at the tip of the blade 
and notched in an ornate fashion, while 
the handle is shorter than for the 
human equivalent. A saurial dart may 
be wider in its wings, and a dagger may 
have three edges to it. In terms of 
AD&D(r) game combat, however, all 
weapons fuction as well as their human 
equivalents. Saurials suffer a -1 to hit 
with human weapons, while humans 
suffer a similar penalty with saurial 
weapons. 

Saurials seem to possess no special abili 
ties other than those possessed by the 
"character class" of individual saurials. 
That is, assuming that Dragonbait is rep 
resentative as a paladin of his race, he 
exhibits no other special abilities than 
those of paladins found in the Realms. 
While it is possible that some of these abil 
ities may be natural to all saurials, the 
sample taken (a single saurial) is too small 
to determine it as fact. 

Saurials as player characters: The 
existence of the saurial paladin Dragon 
bait makes one wonder about other 
saurials and their nature. Saurials 
would be at best very rare in the 
Realms, and are not native to its plane 
of the Realms. (Saurials would be con 
sidered exha-planar creatures as far as 
spells concerning their summoning, 
banishment, and the effect of protec 
tion from good/evil spells.) If the DM 
determines that a character may be 


played as a saurial, use the following 
modifications: 

Statistics - As normal for AD&D(r) 
characters, with two modifications: 

• Saurials cannot gain "% STR" stat - 
the maximum strength they may 
have is 18. 

• Saurials may have any charisma stat 
among their own kind, but their 
maximum charisma among other, 
non-saurial races is 5. The charisma 
listed for Dragonbait in parenthesis 
is that which he has among other 
saurials and among creatures such as 
dragons, lizard men, and troglo 
dytes. 

Alignment - It is assumed that 
saurials can be of any alignment availa 
ble. The fact that the only such creature 
available for studies is a paladin does 
not preclude the existence of others 
having different alignments. 

Weapons proficiency - Note the 
restriction for weapons above - 
saurials suffer no penalty when using 
weapons of saurial design, and a -1 to 
hit penalty when using weapons of 
human (or other) design. 

Languages - None, other than the 
scent language of the saurials, which 
may be roughly comprehended by 
humans who anticipate such things, 
and by creatures who have both good 
intelligence and a fine sense of smell. 

Infravision - Saurials can sense 
objects in the dark up to 60' away 
through seeing varying degrees of heat. 

Special abilities: None known, 
though if saurials represent the equiva 
lent of "humans" in their home dimen 
sion, then there might be the equivalent 
of scaly elves, reptilian dwarves, and 
the like. Dragonbait has said little on 
the subject, and the entire matter is one 
of rampant speculation. 

Character classes - Saurials can 
be of any character class available to 
humans in the Realms. There are some 
minor differences for Realmsian play: 

• Fighters - No differences, other 
than those noted for weapons. Saurial 
fighters (and their subclasses) can gain 
proficiencies in human weapons with 
proper training. 


• Paladins - See above under Dra 
gonbait's stats for his abilities. 

• Rangers - Saurial rangers are sur 
prised one time in eight, and surprise 
opponents 50% of the time. They do not 
gain a +1 per level damage benefit 
against "giant class." They do gain this 
benefit against lizard men, troglodytes, 
dragons, and other reptilian (and 
amphibian, at DM's option) creatures. 
Otherwise they have all ranger abilities 
and requirements. 

• Clerics - Saurial clerics worship 
saurial gods, and as such, are more 
severely limited in the Realms. They are 
considered to be two planes removed in 
regards to contacting their gods, with 
the result that they may cast only cast 
first-and second-level spells when in the 
Realms. See magic-users below for 
effects of spells. 

• Druids - While both saurial and 
human druids worship "nature," they 
do so in different ways and respect dif 
ferent aspects of their nature-gods. 
They are limited as clerics in their spell 
choice. However, some types of swamp 
reeds will function for saurial druids as 
well as mistletoe and oak do for their 
human equivalents. 

• Magic-Users - Saurials have no 
written language as yet determined, 
and as such, the concept of spellbooks 
is lost on them. Dragonbait has proved 
familiar with the concept of spellbooks, 
such that saurial mages likely use 
"memory sticks" - notched poles 
which function in the same fashion as 
spellbooks. These might be mistaken 
for magical staves by the uninformed 
or strangers. While saurial mages use 
spells that parallel or mimic human 
spells (much like saurial and human 
weapons are similar), saurial and 
human magic is not compatible in any 
way. The saurial mind is different than 
that of humans, and rather than a ver 
bal component, the mute saurials have 
a "scent" component that makes their 
spells impossible for humans to cast 
and vice versa. With research (as for a 
new spell), a human mage may come up 
with the equivalent of a saurial spell 
and vice versa, but one cannot use the 


25 












































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


other's spellbooks or memory sticks. 

• Illusionists - Saurial illusions 
extend into the infrared part of the 
spectrum, and in addition, give off a 
scent proper for their appearance. 

• Thieves and assassins - Saurial 
thieves (and their subclasses) suffer a 
blanket -5% on all thieving abilities. 

• Other classes (barbarian, cavalier, 
the ORIENTAL ADVENTURES classes (a 
saurial samurai?) - Left to the DM's dis 
cretion on all major abilities, taking into 
account saurials' limitations such as 
muteness, and advantages, such as 
their sense of smell. 

Level limitations - The exact level 
limitations on saurials are as yet 
unknown, again, given the small size of 
the sample currently living in the 
Realms. In game terms, the highest 
level of saurials is ninth in any class, 
with exceptional individuals (those that, 
if human, would gain a bonus to experi 
ence), able to reach 10th level. 


Class limitations - Saurials can 
not be dual-class characters (like elves, 
half-elves, and the like). They can be 
characters with two classes, in accord 
ance with normal AD&D(r) rules as 
regards humans. 

Racial relations - Most other 
races are either neutral (80%) or 
unfriendly (20%) to saurials in general, 
usually along the lines of how they feel 
about lizard men in general. Humans 
are neutral to them, with adjustments 
for how much a bother they are, how 
many turn up, and regional differ 
ences. 

Saving throws - Saurials have 
normal saving throws for their class. 
Due to their keen sense of smell, how 
ever, they are more vulnerable to gas- 
based attacks (such as stinking cloud or 
the chlorine of a green dragon), and as 
such, save against such attacks at -2. 

Armor class - All saurials (even the 
mages) are armor class 5. They may 


wear armor, but it will only help them if 
it raises their armor class above 5 (That 
is, mere leather would do no good, 
while plate would offer as much protec 
tion as plate would to a human - AC 3). 
A shield will add 1 to the AC, just as for 
humans, Saurials cannot wear human 
armor comfortably and vice versa. 

Psionics - It is unknown if any 
Saurials have psionic abilities, and the 
extent of them if they do. 

Weaponless attacks - A saurial 
without any weapons may still attack 
twice with his claw-like hands (ld3 
points damage each), or strike with his 
tail (ld2 points damage). Not much, but 
better than a weaponless human. 

Zero-level saurials - If zero-level 
humans exist as the standard for all 
humans, it follows that zero-level 
saurials may well exist on Dragonbait's 
home world. A zero-level saurial would 
have ld4 hit points, AC 5, Move 12"), # 
AT 2 or 1, Damage Id3/ld3 or ld2. 


26 












































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


€lm)sisXen 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 (7 with ring) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 96 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spells and magic 
items 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Spells and magic 
items 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: 266 
ATTACK/DEFENSE MODES: All/ All 
26th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:13 1:18 W:18 D:18 C:14 CH:17 

A human male of advanced age, 
Elminster appears to be a gray-bearded 
man of weathered visage, gruff voice, 
dancing eyes, and nondescript attire. 
He is a natural storyteller and mimic, 
and can be quite imperious or persua 
sive if he wants to be. He is a consum 
mate actor, and if need be, can convince 
most people to believe his role. For 
game purposes, he can act as if any of 
the above characteristics are any value 
up to their true number, and he can 
change his attractiveness with makeup. 

He rarely travels in the Realms 
(although it is apparent that he once 
traveled there widely), preferring these 
days to explore other worlds. When he 
does travel, it is usually in the disguise 
afforded by a shape change spell, or 
under cover of invisibility. Elminster 
travels to acquire information; his great 
love is the discovery of the long forgot 
ten, or of creatures and magic totally 
new to him. 

Elminster smokes a meerschaum pipe 
(burning some strange substance that 
produces thick green or blue smoke, 
sparks, and smoke rings), and can drink 
heavily without apparent ill effects. He 
can be witty and clever in conversation 
if he so desires, or haughty, or charming 
or terrible and commanding. As he has 
grown older, Elminster has become 
more whimsical, given to sudden 


impulses and doing things "for the hell 
of it." He is not aggressive, but is fear 
less, and will fight if crossed, threat 
ened, or attacked. 

Elminster keeps a low profile in the 
Realms, preferring not to openly 
engage in diplomacy or politics of any 
sort. Officially, he maintains a sage's 
neutrality; in fact, he prefers to see 
peace, freedom from slavery and 
oppression for all peoples (of all races), 
tolerance, and maintenance of wilder 
ness and natural beauty. He often 
works with circles of druids and allied 
rangers, magic-users of like mind (nota 
bly Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun; Alus- 
triel, High Lady of Silverymoon; and 
The Simbul, mage-queen of Aglarond), 
and that mysterious group known only 
as the Harpers, working covertly to 
prevent war and limit the influence of 
rulers and groups viewed as evil. 

Elminster has perhaps the best pri 
vate library in the Realms, and hence is 
often consulted on matters of history 
and genealogy, but he is most famous as 
the foremost authority on rare and 
arcane magic, and on dangerous and 
unusual beasts. Elminster enjoys 
imparting wisdom to others, but 
intensely dislikes giving up the time 
necessary to train a magic-user up to a 
new level of mastery, and will not 
undertake such tutelage for those with 
whom he is not friendly or to whom 
he's not beholden. Adventurers come to 
him from all over the Realms, and he is 
said to be fabulously wealthy as a result 
of the fees they pay (having only to sell 
the right to copy a spell to certain 
mages, if he ever desires more wealth). 
He never dresses as a person of wealth 
or influence, however; formal or grand 
clothing, to Elminster, is a simple black 
or gray robe, clean and unadorned. 
Rumors of his wealth are borne out by 
the fact that he aids those it pleases him 
to aid, and turns away others, regard 
less of how much or how little any of 
them offer in payment. 

Over the years, Elminster's memory 
has been developed to an astonishing 
degree; he can call to mind with crystal 
clarity the likeness of creatures or 


things seen only once, or seen long ago. 
Other sages speculate that this is the 
results of a wish spell cast centuries 
ago. At his present stage of maturity, he 
only uses wishes when in dire need, 
which hasn't happened in over a centu 
ry. However, he has admitted that in his 
youth (when he was only 200 or 300 
years old) he used them occasionally. 

His vast experience and nearly per 
fect memory allow him to identify all 
known non-unique magic-user spells 
(and many illusionist, clerical, and dru 
idic magics) by the opening activity of a 
visible spell-caster's casting. This often 
enables him to counter spell effects 
with fast, high-level magics of his own. 

He also has the unique natural ability 
(from birth, origin unknown, and lead 
ing to his present career) to see magical 
auras - precise location, hues, shapes, 
and intensities - on persons and things 
within 3" (even when darkness pre 
vents his normal sight). This includes 
illusions and polymorphed or other 
wise transformed objects. He can even 
see the potential for magic-wielding 
(which he calls "power") in a creature, 
as betrayed by the unconscious mental 
seeking or manipulation of pathways of 
power between the Positive and Prime 
Material planes. In a rare display of 
openness, he conjectured that it might 
be a rare passive psionic discipline. 
Although Elminster himself is psionic, 
he has little interest in the disciplines 
and has done little research into them. 

His favorite spells are known to 
include identify, magic missile, magic 
mouth, disintegrate, legend lore, tele 
port, imprisonment, meteor swarm, 
and shape change. He dislikes conjura 
tion and summoning spells of all sorts, 
and prefers not to deal with creatures 
from the lower or the elemental planes. 
A curious exception is his fondness of 
firetails. He has been known to wear a 
necklace of missiles, and customarily 
wears a +3 ring of protection and a 
ring of regeneration. He may have ioun 
stones of any sort upon his person, and 
always carries a staff, usually non- 
magical. 

Elminster rarely uses his psionic abili- 


27 












































ties in combat against non-psionics; he 
will sometimes use these disciplines 
while traveling. He possesses the minor 
disciplines of body equilibrium, cell 
adjustment, object reading, and sensi 
tivity to psychic impressions, and the 
major disciplines of energy control and 
mind bar. 

Elminster's precise age is unknown 
(he will coyly evade any questions on 
this topic), but he is at least 600 winters 
of age - and presumably the user of 
potions of longevity and vitality, and 
perhaps also a regular imbiber of elixir 


of life potions. This count of years is 
inescapable, given that he once had 
Arkhon "the Old" as a tutor, and that he 
remembers the city of Myth Drannor in 
all its glory. 

The "Old Sage," as he is now known, 
has taught such famous workers of 
magic as The Simbul, the witch Sylune 
(now deceased), and the bard Storm 
Silverhand, who remained with him for 
many years as apprentice and lover 
before making her own way in the 
Realms - and perhaps knows more of 


Elminster's past than any other living 
creature. Elminster now dislikes teach 
ing in any concentrated form - he has 
sickened of such work, he says, by 
hearing too many sages, magic-users, 
and "scholars of the 'if I stop talking for 
an instant I shall cease to exist' school - 
and knowing how much I came to 
resemble them." 

He is also irked by the constant 
demands of those who would hire his 
knowledge for information on magic 
and monsters. "War! It's always this or 
that power, this or that weapon. Kings 
make war unceasingly, for the greater 
men are, the more petty men are . .. and 
no one wants to hear about how to get 
good crops, where to plant or where 
not to plant, or how to guard beauty in 
the taking of riches for rock and soil. No 
one want to listen to such things, 
because - mark ye - sword and spells 
rule the Realms, not cool heads and 
warm hearts." The true learning of 
being a mage, according to Elminster, is 
the knowledge of when not to use one's 
powers. 

Elminster's true parentage is 
unknown. His manners and dealings 
would lead one to believe that he was of 
noble birth. However, he's visited 
enough courts and mixed with enough 
high society throughout the Realms to 
have the etiquette and wily wit of a 
chancellor. 

It is known that he was born some 
where in the North - probably some 
where near the great city of 
Waterdeep, or at least the Sword Coast. 
His knowledge of the lands from Mira- 
bar south to Baldur's Gate, and east to 
Cormyr and the Desert, is vivid and var 
ied when he speaks of events 500 years 
ago. The tone of his voice suggests that 
he is remembering things he experi 
enced and was part of, not things he has 
studied in books of lore. 

During this time of perhaps 40 years, 
Elminster had a varied career adven 
turing (suggesting that he had no par 
ents, or was parted from them early) - 
having little to do with magic, it 
appears, save as the spoils of tomb 
pillaging and delving in the lost cities of 


28 












































































the dwarves. Any character class abili 
ties gained during this period have been 
lost centuries ago by severe disuse. He 
was fascinated by the past, as revealed 
in the tombs he entered and in bardic 
lays and ballads heard in taverns, and 
was also intrigued by the magic that 
slumbered in scrolls and items that he 
and his band found. 

He speaks of Arkhon "the Old," per 
haps the foremost human sage (and a 
mage of note, too) in the North at the 
time, and it's suspected that he took 
tutelage under Arkhon in Waterdeep, 
and probably also learned the rudi 
ments of an adventuring mage's art 
through his contacts (the merchants 
and "fences" of goods from the past) in 
the caravan city of Scornubel. Possible 
tutors in magic of the time were Myrja- 
la " Darkeyes," the half-elven adventur 
ess, and the merchant-mage Lycon, 
called "Wolf-beard" for his appearance 
and manner. 

After this period, for reasons 
unknown (perhaps to flee enemies, 
seek a change of life, or merely to 
advance in training), Elminster traveled 
with his caravan comrades east via 
Iriaebor to Cormyr and the still 
fledgling Dalelands. There, he is known 
to have become a friend of elves, one of 
the few humans allowed to travel to the 
Elven Court without special leave. 
There he came to the school of wiz 
ardry established by the Seven Wiz 
ards, where he studied under Mentor 
and the mage known only as "The 
Masked." He stayed in Myth Drannor 
some 20 years, growing in lore and 
maturity, and when he deemed it time, 
left the city (not long before its destruc 
tion) with Alais, an elven lady, to begin 
an epic travel about the Realms to learn 
its lands and lore. 

For 15 years he traveled, ranging 
more widely about the Realms than any 
man alive had at the time. At length, 
Alais took him over the sea to Ever- 
meet, the island kingdom of the elves. 
There she remained, to pass away, and 
he returned, changed in outlook and 
humor, to visit one keep of learning 
after another, quietly scoring the 


libraries of the Realms - and discreetly 
furthering his arts under the tutelage 
of such mages as Torose and Shalane of 
Taerloon. It is thought that at this time 
he mastered and completed whatever 
processes he thought necessary for his 
own longevity, for Elminster then 
dropped out of sight for over 200 years, 
doubtless into seclusion at some haunt 
of his own devising, to experiment in 
magery on his own, develop some of his 
spells, and create magic items. At some 
point during this time, he is known to 
have tentatively explored some of the 
lower planes. When he returned to 
public view, in Waterdeep, he began to 
operate as a sage for hire, and to take 
on apprentices. Then, as now, he 
retained only those he liked and 
thought fit: the adventuress Laeral, 
founder of The Nine; Alustriel, who 
was later to become ruler of city of 
Silverymoon; the witch Sylune, who 
become the the wife of Aumry, lord of 
Shadowdale; and Murask of Neverwin- 
ter. 

Since then, Sylune's husband was 
slain, and Elminster answered her call 
for aid by coming to Shadowdale, 
where he helped to overthrow an evil 
usurper and quell an uprising of drow 
from the depths. Elminster loved the 
peace and beauty of the dale, its near 
ness to the Elven Court, and its simple 
folk, and he stayed. Thereafter, he 
taught the bard Storm Silverhand, 
Sylune's sister, and aided The Simbul 
and Khelben Arunsun for the first time, 
working together against evil magery 
from Thay, Mulmaster, and Zhentil 
Keep - foes that have remained, in one 
form or another, to this day. 

It is suspected that he had a hand in 
raising the present Lords of Waterdeep 
(a secretive group that includes 
Khelben Arunsun) to power, and in 
forming the Harpers, but there is no 
hard evidence, and Elminster just 
smiles and winks now and then when 
queried. He has often aided mages, and 
elves in particular, over the last half 
century or so, but has taken few 
apprentices, and less of a hand in open 
politics. 


Presently Elminster resides in a place 
he loves - the verdant farming valley 
of Shadowdale. He lives quietly, respect 
ed by the townsfolk, who consult him 
on matters of history and genealogy 
and advice on the upbringing of their 
sons and daughters. His cluttered, two- 
story tower overlooking a fish pond is 
his home. He is accompanied by a scribe 
named Lhaeo, of great renown. 

Elminster does travel more or less 
continuously in the "endless worlds," as 
he puts it, these days - and may turn 
up on any parallel Prime Material Plane 
a DM wishes. There is only a one-in-10 
chance of finding him in his tower 
under normal circumstances. However, 
Lhaeo can contact him if need be, and 
he always seems to be around just 
when you need him the most. 

When out and about, he will always 
be seeking unusual magic, monsters, 
and - of even more importance to him 
- information on how each world 
works: its ecology, societies, and unique 
beauties. Rather than being a dramatic 
figure of power, he travels quietly, in 
disguise. He does present a model of a 
cautious, prepared mage of power - 
and no one should find him a pushover. 
When traveling, Elminster protects 
himself with the following spells: 
shield, protection from normal missiles, 
stone skin, statue, Serten's spell immu 
nity, and Elminster's evasion (see 
below). 

In addition, his is likely to have all of 
the following unique spells ready. 
These spells are the results of many 
years of research and experimenting by 
Elminster himself, and he will not 
divulge the method of their casting to 
just anyone. Certain of his colleagues 
know the formulae, Khelben "Black- 
staff" Arunsun and The Simbul, to 
name two. 


29 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


lNSCR)be 

(EbucAT)ow/ALTe?uT)ow) 

Level: 6 

Components: V,S,M 
Range: 7" 

Casting time: 1 round 
Duration: 1 turn +1 turn/level 
Saving throw: special 
Area of Effect: 1 inscription 

Explanation/Description: By means 
of this spell, a magic-user may be able to 
inscribe any writing, runes, or glyphs, 
even a spell he or she cannot under 
stand at the time (due to low level, lack 
of time to study or write, or insufficient 
intelligence or training) into a spellbook 
or onto a suitably prepared writing sur 
face (such as a slate or scroll). The origi 
nal is unaltered, and the duplicate 
contains all the properties of the origi 
nal, including type of ink, smudges, 
errors, etc. For example, a strange 
glyph of warding would still retain all of 
its harmful properties. 

Non-magical writings are always suc 
cessfully copied. Magical writings are 
subject to a saving throw modified by 
the difference in level between the 
inscriber's highest castable spell level 
and the level of the spell being copied. If 
the inscriber can cast up to sixth-level 
spells and is attempting to copy an 
eighth-level spell, there is a -2 modi 
fier to the saving throw. If the saving 
throw is failed, 2 points of damage per 
spell level being copied are taken. In 
addition, the inscriber is stunned for 
ld3 rounds. 

The spell animates an enchanted quill 
(reusable) and uses ink that includes a 
drop of the caster's blood. The DM can 
use his discretion for the components 
and spells necessary to construct the 
quill and mix the ink. 

The quill must be within 1" of the 
spell it is copying, and the caster must 
be within 7" of the quill. The spell takes 
no concentration, and the inscriber can 
perform any action so long as he stays 
with 7" of the quill. The quill will evade 
attempts to grab it, but can be 
destroyed by 4 hp of damage. 


The quill writes normal text at a rate 
of one turn per normal sized page. Mag 
ical writings are copied at one turn per 
level of the spell being copied. The DM 
may want to modify the time for extra- 
large pages or if complex drawings are 
being copied. 

WoRLduMLIc (MTskaVion) 

Level: 9 

Components: V,S,(M) 

Range: 3" 

Casting time: 3 segments 
Duration: up to 1 turn per level 
Saving throw: none 
Area of effect: special 

Explanation/Description: By means 
of this spell, an ultra-dimensional con 
nection is temporarily created between 
the plane the caster is on and a differ 
ent plane chosen by him. The portal is a 
shimmering disc of force 2" across, 
floating on edge up to 3" from the cast 
er, wherever he wills it. It is held open 
without concentration until the caster 
wills it to vanish or the spell's duration 
expires. Anything caught between 
planes when it is dispelled is flung into 
the uppermost plane of Limbo. 

Up to 10 creatures can pass through 
the portal in a given round (1 per seg 
ment), assuming that they race through 
in an organized line, one right on the 
heels of the other. Objects not in contact 
with a creature are also sent to the 
uppermost plane of Limbo, and scat 
tered there randomly. 

If the destination plane is personally 
known to the caster, no material com 
ponent is needed. The chance of suc 
cessfully reaching the requested plane 
is 5% per level of the caster. Failure 
indicates an opening into an alternate 
Prime Material Plane. 

Unknown planes can be reached if 
the caster is in physical contact with 
material from that plane. The material 
is not consumed and can be brought 
along if it is possible. If the material 
component is missing, the caster must 
provide a verbal description of the 
plane desired even if it is only from his 


imagination, then there is only a 10% 
base chance of reaching the correct 
plane. Add +1% for each level of the 
spell-caster. 

B.a))h3$Ten.'$ Euas)on 
(EuocaDon) 

Level: 9 

Components: V,S,M 
Range: 0" 

Casting time: 1 turn + other spells 

Duration: special 

Saving throw: none 

Area of Effect: the spell-caster 

Explanation/Description: This is an 
enhanced and customized version of 
the contingency spell of which Elmin- 
ster is quite proud; he calls it a "good 
and true alternative to lichdom." Upon 
the declared conditions (no more than 
six simple clauses), the spell-caster's 
body, complete with his soul or spirit, 
even if separated from the body, with 
any of the items held at the time, is 
snatched through a momentary (1 seg 
ment) worldwalk portal to the place 
where the spell was originally cast, 
even if that place is many planes dis 
tant. 

When casting the evasion spell, the 
worldwalk it uses must also be cast, 
along with telekinesis to move the body, 
and two other spells of the caster's 
choice. All four of these spells must be 
personally cast and can not come from 
devices or other spell-casters. The eva 
sion remains in effect until one of the 
six conditions is met. 

The material components of this spell 
are a pint of the caster's blood and a 
gem of at least 5,000 gp value. Both are 
consumed in the casting. The caster 
also loses ld4 hit points which cannot 
be healed, until the spell is triggered, at 
which time they can be recovered by 
normal or magical means. 

Elminster's version uses only five con 
ditions - death, loss of control over his 
mental faculties, loss of control over his 
physical body, destruction of both 
upper limbs or equal physical damage, 
and uttering the command word 


30 













































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


"Thaele." He usually casts this spell from 
an extra-dimensional "safe hold" (loca 
tion unknown), to which the evasion 
would take him. Upon arriving, some 
sort of magical creature (unseen ser 
vant, homonculous, or golem; Elmin- 
ster is deliberately vague) administers 
an elixir of health, elixir of life, 
Keoghtom's ointment and up to six 
potions of healing. 

The two spells to be activated on his 
arrival are a very carefully worded 
wish, to restore him to mental and or 
physical health if necessary, and a send 
ing spell which contacts Elminster's 
friend The Simbul, mage-queen of 
Aglarond, saying "I am sorely wounded, 
if you value my life, come to the safe 
hold quickly." 

ElmiwsTeR's Touoeiz 

For a sage of great renown and 
Faerun's most powerful arch-mage, 
Elminster's tower is amazingly nonde 
script. It has two floors and a flat roof 
with time-worn crenelations on the 
edge. One of the oldest structures in 
Shadowdale, it dates back to the earliest 
settlers of the region. They were 
farmers and hunters who built this 
small stone tower to keep out the pred 
ators at nights. 

When Elminster came to Shadow- 
dale, it was falling apart, the mortar 
crumbling, and the top story had shorn 
away on one side during a bad storm. 
Elminster chose it for two reasons. One 
was the highly attractive price: Nobody 
else wanted it. The other was its strate 
gic location in the dale, off the beaten 
path, but still within walking distance 
to the Old Skull Inn, where a man can 
get decent drink and hear a tale or two. 

Elminster worked subtle magics into 
the reconstruction of the tower. Its 
walls and mortar are full of lead, which 
prevents certain creatures from seeing 
through them. On both the Astral and 
the Ethereal planes, his tower is a solid 
cylinder without entrance. No form of 
teleport or plane shifting spell will 
allow entrance unless Elminster speaks 
a command word first. Even then it is 


only possible for a single round. 

The entire tower acts as an amulet of 
proof against detection and location. No 
device or spell can ever see or hear into 
it. The whole structure radiates a pro 
tection from evil, 10' radius. Elminster 
has no illusions that these measures 
guarantee his privacy or even his 
safety. For the greater part, he relies 
upon his reputation, and upon the sign 
at the foot of the path leading to his 
tower. It reads, "No trespassing. Viola 
tors should notify next of kin. Have a 
pleasant day," in both Common and 
Thorass. 

The first floor is a general study and 
workroom. It has a few small tables and 
a couple of dilapidated easy chairs. The 
table surfaces and floor around them 
are filled with stacks of paper, some of 
which reach close to the ceiling, totally 
obscuring the furniture itself. There is 
a footpath leading from the kitchen to 
the chairs, and to the staircase. 

Most of the papers are written by 
Elminster, although many of them have 
been copied over by Lhaeo into legible 
writing. Of any random selection of 100 
papers, 99 are safe readings of descrip 
tions of strange lands, creatures and 
cultures. One will be some sort of mag 
ic. Of those, nine in 10 are minor spell 
variants such as a levitate spell that 
works at an angle to gravity, or a danc 
ing lights spell that allows control over 
the color of the light. 

The remaining papers are not safe to 
read. They could contain anything, 
from horrible new glyphs of warding, 
to malignant intelligences trapped in 
the parchment. For this reason, all visi 
tors are cautioned not to poke around 
in the stacks. Some things are better left 
undisturbed. 

An open archway leads to the 
kitchen. The larder is stocked with 
exceptionally plain fare, although there 
is a wide variety of spices, some are 
even from other realms of existence. A 
single large cupboard on the side hold 
all of the common spell components 
that a mage would want. The more 
unusual ones Elminster keeps on his 
person. On a special shelf in this cup 


board rests a jar and several glass vials. 
The jar holds a dozen or so stones, all of 
which have had continual light cast 
upon them, some with a half brightness 
variant. The vials are potions of healing, 
extra-healing, elixirs of health, and a 
special concoction that immediately 
cures hangovers and rids the body of 
any alcohol. 

The second floor is the sleeping room. 
It has but a single bed in it. Elminster 
and Lhaeo rarely sleep at the same 
time, each keeping unusual hours. 
There is one accessible wardrobe 
where they both keep everyday cloth 
ing. A spot on the floor next to the bed 
usually has papers or other before bed 
objects on it. 

The rest of the room is filled with 
wardrobes and trunks, frequently 
stacked one on top of another. These 
hold many strange wonders, few of 
which are magical. Several wardrobes 
contain fine clothing from lost Myth 
Drannor. One actually has a full set of 
plate mail in it, although it is not fit for 
battle. Lhaeo keeps his short sword +2 
of quickness in one of the trunks. 

There is a trapdoor in the ceiling, 
with a wooden ladder leading up to it. 
Always wizard locked, it leads to the 
rooftop. Elminster has been known to 
venture up there on occasions to sit and 
watch the world go by. The crenela 
tions do make the rooftop a defensible 
area, although it has never been used as 
such by Elminster or Lhaeo. 

ELmjwsTeR's Safe Hold 

Not much is known of this extra- 
dimensional place. By putting together 
various subtle clues, it seems likely that 
it is its own pocket dimension. It is a 
well fortified structure with plenty of 
open space for trial-casting new spells. 
It is certain that this is where Elminster 
keeps his spellbooks. Copies of Lhaeo's 
finished works also end up here in his 
extensive (although undoubtedly disor 
ganized) library. It is certain that there 
are many different magic items in the 
safe hold. Elminster always seems to be 
able to put his hands on just the right 


31 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


piece, when it is necessary. Some for 
gotten closet probably holds enough 
treasure (particularly gems for use as 
spell components) to make even the 
richest man drool. 

There are no reliable tales of it ever 
being plundered, or even entered, but 
as Elminster says, "Never underesti 
mate the greed of men." Any who 
would find their way there are certain 
to encounter Elminster's servants, 
which include stone and iron golems, 
and maybe a spectator or two. In gen 
eral, Elminster does not use living ser 
vants that do not wish to serve him. He 
will never have a summoned or con 
jured creature do his bidding. 

Sages )n the FoRgoTtew 
Realms 

A sage is simply a learned man. As 
Elminster says "Any damn fool can call 
himself a sage, all he has to do is know 
more about something than whoever is 
sitting next to him." Any creature that 
has gathered information can be con 
sidered a sage. 

There are those in the Realms who 
sell their knowledge and call them 
selves sages. These men are usually 
experts in a single field of study. A few, 
like Elminster, are masters of a handful 
of topics. Usually they have exceptional 
intelligence or have lived a very long 
time. 

Most sages, unlike Elminster, do not 
travel. They rely upon news or writings 
from travelers, and therefore are only 
found in places frequented by well trav 
eled men. These include large cities and 
smaller cities at strategic crossroads. 
Elminster considers himself retired 
from general practice and is not for 
hire anymore. 

Below is a table of general fields of 
study which a sage might have, along 
with a table of percentages for finding 
such a sage in an average-sized city. The 
chance of locating a sage in a city is 
modified by the DM for location and 
extreme circumstances. Certain 
regions in the Realms tend to promote 
certain fields of study. Next to each field 


is the area or region that gives a +10% 
chance to find a sage in that field of 
study. Usually this refers to a particular 
area within the field. For example, 
Orlumbor is famous for shipbuilding 
and therefore would only get a bonus 
for finding sages knowledgeable in that 
specialty, not all types of engineering. 


study 

Alchemy 

Architecture 

Art 

Astrology 

Astronomy 

Botany 

Cartography 

Cryptography 

Ecology 

Engineering 


Folklore 
Genealogy 
Geography 
Heraldry 
History, human 
History, 
non-human 
Languages, 
human 
Languages, 
non-human 
Law 

Magic 

Mathematics 

Medicine 

Music 

Philosophy 

Politics 


Planes, inner 
Planes, outer 
Religion 
Trade 
economics 
Warfare 


Zoology 


Chance Specialty 
to find of 

10% Thay 
5% Sembia, 
Waterdeep 
20% Calimshan 
30% 

10% Amn 
25% Cormyr 
20% Amn, Lantan, 
Waterdeep 
5% Calimshan 
10% Cormyr 
30% Lantan, 
Orlumbor, 
Impiltur 
25% Dales 
25% Tethyr 
10 % 

30% 

30% Waterdeep 

5% Dales 

Amn, Baldur's 
40% Gate 

5% Dales 
35% Cormyr, 

Zhentil Keep 
10% Mulhorand, 

Thay 

20% Waterdeep 

10 % 

30% 

25% 

5% Calimshan, 
Tethyr, 

Zhentil Keep 
15% 

5% Mulhorand 
25% 

15% Amn, Waterdeep 
5% Baldur's Gate, 
Thay, 

Zhentil Keep 
20% Sembia 


There are a few famous sages in the 
Realms other than Elminster, although 


he would never admit to it. These men 
and women are known well enough 
that they can charge more for their 
services. Usually they deliver informa 
tion on topics not accessible by com 
mon sages. Any character class ability 
of these sages is unknown by the gen 
eral public. 

Raash - Zhentil Keep: A lean man of 
some 50 winters, Raash is considered 
by many to be the foremost authority 
on dragons in the Realms, excepting 
Elminster, and a sixth-level magic-user. 
He is fairly wealthy, enough to be able 
to refuse work if need be. He is famous 
for his barbed temper. Raash only 
accepts interesting work, giving more 
mundane assignments to one of the two 
sages who work under him. His fees are 
five times normal, and those of his 
assistants are three times normal. Their 
specialties are zoology and ecology. 
They are particularly knowledgeable 
about enchanted creatures. 

Drake "Deepcups" - Iriaebor: He is a 
short, stout, bearded man of around 60 
winters. He is famous for his written 
works on dwarfish history and social 
customs. He speaks and writes all 
known forms of dwarfish fluently, and 
with a flawless accent. He is often con 
sulted by adventuring parties that plan 
on exploring the old dwarven digs. At 
double the normal fees, he ought to be 
wealthy, but he has a soft spot for good 
ale. 

Selinor - Ordulin in Sembia: Her 
knowledge of the Elven Court is second 
only to that of the elf sages themselves. 
She has personally advised statesmen 
and politicians needing to negotiate 
with the Elven Court. She speaks and 
writes all forms of elvish with a perfect 
accent. With the current passage of the 
Elven Court, she is swamped with work 
for the next year. Her fees are four 
times normal, and she has five scribes 
working for her. 

Simple maps of Myth Drannor (artis 
tic renditions) can be bought for 50 gp 
by anybody in her shop. Any adventur 
ing party using such a map will find it to 
be highly inaccurate for travel pur 
poses. She only sells accurate travel 


32 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


maps to those who do not intend to 
harm the ruins and gets 250 gp for 
them (use the before and after maps in 
the boxed set). 

Duncan - Arabel of Cormyr: A 
young sage of 43 winters, his family 
was slaughtered by goblins when he 
was young. Driven to understand how 
this could happen, he has become the 
foremost authority on the goblin races, 
their history, society, and ecology in the 
Realms. His fees are triple normal, and 
he pays for any unusual information 
pertaining to the goblin races. Duncan 
is also a fourth-level ranger and does a 
some of his own information gathering. 

Jantoo - Waterdeep: Considered to be 
the greatest philosopher alive today, she 
can either support or refute most ques 
tions, depending upon her whim. Two of 
her most famous works concern the 
existence of free will in mankind. One 
paper conclusively proves it does exist, 
the other that is does not. Unwed, she has 
said publicly that she will marry the man 
who can win an argument with her. 


Bezier - Waterdeep: Tutored under 
the great Furier, Bezier is a lesser math 
ematician. However, this still puts him a 
cut above most living mathematicians 
in the Realms. He has many sages and 
scribes who work for him. In recent 
years, rumor has it that he has grown 
feebleminded. At over 80 winters, this 
is to be expected. 

Viticun - E Itabbar of Tlwy: Known 
only by reputation in the western 
lands, he is thought to know more 
about the workings of magic and its 
relationship to the inner and outer 
planes than any man alive. He is a 
devoted follower of the cult, and is a 
powerful wizard (18th level). Viticun 
only accepts work from loyal followers 
of the Cult of the Red Wizards. He 
apparently has no talent for leading 
men or any desire to enter into politics. 
A famous story is told of The Simbul vis 
iting him in magical disguise and com 
ing away with a great secret. The truth 
of this is not known. 


Skarn Stonegrinder - Impiltur: A 
dwarf who associates freely with men, 
he understands geology, mining, and 
metal smithing like no human does. It is 
not known why he lives amongst men 
in Impiltur. His name is spurned by 
dwarves who admit to knowing of it, 
although they do not say why. He takes 
his fees as a percentage of the operation 
on which he advises. His wealth is 
great, but hidden somewhere in the 
Earthfast Mountains. He was a seventh- 
level fighter before becoming a sage, 
and owns a hammer of thunderbolts. 

Delitar the Slow - Westgate: He is 
called the slow because of the stutter in 
his speech. It can take him a long time to 
relate a story verbally. However, pity 
the adventurer who assumes he is slow 
in thinking. Delitar is considered to be 
the greatest human historian of these 
times. His works are quoted by most 
other sages in the Realms. He has three 
other sages who specialize in the histo 
ry of some regional area, along with 
many scribes. 


33 












































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


KeLemvoR 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 (3 as panther) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 44 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (5'10") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fifth-Level Human Fighter 

Lycanthrope (Werepanther) 

S:18/94 1:7 W:7 D:12 C:17 CH:13 

Armor: Plate mail, large shield. 

Languages: Human, Panther. 

Possessions: Plate mail, large 
shield, bastard sword, dagger. 

Weapons of proficiency: Bastard 
sword (2d4 + 5/2d8 + 5), short sword 
(ld6 + 5/ld8 + 5), lance (ld6 + 5/ld8 + 5, 
double if mounted), dagger (ld4 +5/ 
2d4 +4), bow (ld6). 

Experience points: 22,000. 

Money: 450 gp. 

Combat: Due to his great strength, 
Kelemvor is +2 to hit and +5 to dam 
age. 

Kelemvor is a fierce fighter whose 
natural fighting skills are more than a 
match for most foes. He does not shy 
away from attacking foes who outnum 
ber him tenfold. His lycanthropic abili 
ties apparently extend to his human 
form. Although he can suffer wounds 
from normal weapons, he soon shrugs 
off their effects. Kelemvor simply con 
siders himself to be a fast healer. 

Kelemvor cannot control his transfor 
mation into a panther, so his lycanthro- 
py rarely works to his advantage. In 
battle, however, Kelemvor's panther 
form is terrifyingly vicious. The were 
panther attacks as a 5 Hit Die monster, 
striking with the claws on its two front 
paws, doing ld4 points damage for 
each paw. The werepanther will also 
bite for ld8 points of damage. 

The werepanther can only be 
harmed by silver or magical weapons of 


at least +1. It possesses keen night 
vision that enables it to see in near 
lightless conditions, acute hearing, and 
a sensitive sense of smell. 

Appearance: In human form, 
Kelemvor is muscular and ruggedly 
attractive man in his early 30s, with 
long black hair. His mouth is more 
prone to scowls than smiles, and he 
often wears military garb. Even when 
trying to relax in civilian garb, he still 
wears at least a chest plate. 

His panther form is physically identi 
cal to a black panther. 

Personality: Kelemvor is an 
extremist in everything he does. He 
only shows his wilder side and keeps 
his sensitivity a deeply buried secret. 

Because of his family's curse, he is a 
tragic figure, constantly forced to seek 
the life of a mercenary. He has assumed 
a gruff, callous exterior that protects 
him more from his own feelings than 
from emotional strife caused by others. 
He hates the fact that his curse 
demands he take payment for any deed 
he does that is not in his best interest, 
but realizes that any selfless act will 
bring forth his panther form, possibly 
causing the death of some innocent. 

Kelemvor is driven to seek a place of 
law and order. To him it would be a safe 
place ruled by benevolent authority. 
This drive is tied to his search for a 
benevolent father- figure to replace the 
monster who sired him. Kelemvor will 
ally himself to such father- figures but 
as soon as they betray his idealized 
vision (as all do in time), he leaves, more 
embittered than before. His search for 
true order gives him a limited view of 
the world. Everything is seen in black 
or white. 

Because of his memories of his cor 
rupt father, Kelemvor is unwilling to 
assume command. If faced with an 
incompetent superior, Kelemvor simply 
leaves. 

The werepanther form is more animal 
istic in its behavior, but retains enough of 
Kelemvor's memories that it will not 
attack Kelemvor's friends or allies. Kelem 
vor himself has only dim memories of 
what the panther does or feels. 


Relatives: Kendrel Lyonsbane 
(father, deceased), Cyndril (mother, 
deceased), Guntharr (brother, 
deceased), Burne (uncle, deceased). 
Allies: Adon, Cyric, Midnight. 

Patron deity: none. 

Home: Lyonsbane Keep. 

Personal history: Kelemvor was 
the fourth and final son Cyndril bore 
Kendrel. The 10 years she had waited 
since her last child had taken their toll; 
she died in childbirth. Throughout his 
childhood, Kelemvor was always 
blamed for her death. 

As the youngest child, Kelemvor had 
the hardest burden to carry. Not only 
did he have to meet his father's aspira 
tions, he had to match the accomplish 
ments of his far-older brothers. When 
he was 8, his brothers were already 
writing their own legends as they bat 
tled in far-off lands. Kendrel was 
retired from fighting; an old war injury 
forced him to settle for work as a mili 
tary advisor. The inaction rankled him 
even more since the injury was the 
result of his own carelessness. Still, he 
never acknowledged his own part in his 
downfall. It was far easier to blame his 
inaction on Kelemvor's improper care 
at the hands of a succession of nannies. 

By the time he was 10, Kelemvor had 
begun to show appreciation for art and 
beauty. His teacher was Tannith, a 
lovely and sensitive woman. This "cor 
ruption," as Kendrel saw it, was the 
final straw. He discharged Tannith and 
took full control of Kelemvor's upbring 
ing; the boy was now locked into a mili 
tary future. Kelemvor ran into Tannith 
weeks later, and he learned she had 
been savagely abused and left for dead 
by his father's friends. The fire of 
hatred kindled in Kelemvor's breast. 

Kelemvor learned to channel his fury 
into fighting. He became an apt pupil 
whose rapid progress in the deadly arts 
delighted Kendrel. The father never 
guessed his son's motivation. He was 
sure it was the family bloodline proving 
true. He would soon know how right he 
was. 

When Kelemvor was 13, he reached a 
turning point in his life, meeting Lilian- 


34 
















































na, a 15-year-old beauty who reminded 
Kelemvor of his lost nanny. She was full 
of laughter, art, song, and an indomita 
ble love for Kelemvor despite his gruff 
exterior. She slowly worked on pene 
trating his emotional armor. 

Once again Kendrel sought to destroy 
the boy's happiness. Kelemvor discov 
ered his father beating Lilianna. He 
leaped to her defense, but was no 
match for his father. Kelemvor's selfless 
attack on his brutal father triggered 
something deep inside of him. 

Kelemvor felt his body burn as he 
transformed into an adult panther. The 
beast tore Kendrel apart. When two 
bodyguards rushed into the room, the 
panther ripped them apart as well. Dur 
ing the carnage, Lilianna cowered in 
the corner. Then she recognized that 
Kelemvor's mind was still in control. 
She helped him escape the castle and 
flee into the woodlands. 

Kelemvor remembers little of the 
next six months. He prowled as a pan 
ther most of the time; his humanity was 
so completely submerged that even his 
human form was that of a feral wild 
man, more animal than human. Eventu 
ally his animal rage subsided and he 
returned again to human form and 
intelligence. 

Kelemvor's uncle, Burne, went 
searching for his nephew when he 
learned of his brother's death. Burne 
was an intelligent, kind man, very dif 
ferent ffrom his cruel, petty brother. 
Burne recognized how different Kelem 
vor was from the rest of his family, and 
saw, too, that Kendrel mistreated the 
boy badly. 

Burne and his adventuring company 
found young Kelemvor wandering in 
the countryside. Kel's uncle was sad 
dened to learn that the boy had inher 
ited the family curse, but felt no sorrow 
for Kendrel's death. It was from his 
uncle that Kelemvor learned of the 
curse that would probably haunt him 
for the rest of his life. 

Kyle Lyonsbane was the first and 
only of the Lyonsbanes to receive the 
curse due to his own actions. Kyle was a 
professional mercenary, and, to him, 
every service had its price - even if it 


had to be taken from the purses of wid 
ows and orphans. 

In a battle long ago, Kyle had the 
choice of defending a wounded sorcer 
ess (who had been struck down while 
protecting Kyle from a sneak attack) or 
rushing through the enemies' lines to 
sack their stronghold, which was about 
to fall. Kyle chose the latter, and the sor 
ceress cursed him with her dying 
breath. The curse would make sure 
that no Lyonsbane ever worked for 
profit again. If Kyle or his ancestors 


ever did anything for personal gain, 
they would turn into a beast. 

Over time, however, the curse 
became unstable and only affected 
some of Kyle's descendants. By the time 
the curse had passed through five gen 
erations of Lyonsbanes, down to 
Kelemvor, it had mutated in a more 
unusual way, too. No longer was the 
cursed Lyonsbane required to act 
unselfishly. Now, if the curse's victim 
did something without payment, he 
was changed into a panther. 


35 

















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Like most spiteful acts, the sorceress's 
curse did more damage to the world 
than it did good. Yet, Kelemvor adjust 
ed, joining Burne's company-for pay, 
of course. 

The panther was quiescent for the 
next three years. It was a fresh start 
and a happy time of sorts. Although 
forced to live the life of a mercenary 
warrior, Kelemvor found that he 
enjoyed the martial life surrounded by 
Burne's companions. Kelemvor grew 
into a fighter to be reckoned with. 

Sometimes his dreams reminded him 
of the life he had led and the life he 
could have had. In his 18th year, the 
nightmare of his past gained reality. 
Burne's company was ambushed and 
slaughtered to a man. Too late, Kelem 
vor battled the man who had taken 
Burne's life. The man was Kelemvor's 
eldest brother Guntharr. Brotherly hate 
fueled their battle; the blows and words 
they exchanged were equally vicious. 
Though he was desperately outnum 
bered, Kelemvor fought his brother's 
company. This selfless act released the 
curse again, and the beast slew Gun 
tharr and every one of his men aside 
from a few who fled. 

The disheartened Kelemvor returned 
to the warrior life. Even here there was 
no release from his inner torment. He 
became resentful of the ultimate lack of 
meaning in a mercenary's life. He espe 
cially resented incompetent superiors 
whose decisions cost too many men 
their lives. Kelemvor could have been a 
better leader, but he never tried. The 
ghost of his father, the image of a man 
corrupted by command, made sure 
Kelemvor never took the reins of 
authority. 

Eventually Kelemvor left his employ 
ers. He felt the urge to search for a 
prize whose form eluded him, even in 
dreams. Then the crisis of the gods 
occurred. Kelemvor met up with Cyric, 
Adon, and the sorceress, Midnight. 


Necu LvcafoTbRopes )w The 
Realms 

The magical energies unleashed dur 
ing the divine crisis had a peculiar side 
effect. As the crisis abated, reports 
came in of new lycanthropic species. 
Some were accidentally created when 
one of these freak maelstroms of pure 
magic enveloped a human and an ani 
mal. The two merged together into a 
single being with traits of both. A sec- 
ond group included those who 
remained physically independent but 
gained the ability to transform into 
another's form. A third group appears 
to have been deliberately created. A 
fourth group includes those that 
appeared as a result of long-standing 
curses; apparently these lycanthropes 
had always existed, but have only just 
recently come to light. All the new 
lycanthropes either fill niches left unoc 
cupied or seem to be intended to specif 
ically oppose known lycanthropic 
species. 

Individuals may acquire their lycan- 
thropy in an apparently spontaneous 
transformation during a time of stress. 
In such cases, the new lycanthropy is 
often related to some long dormant fac 
tor in that person's bloodline. 

Some of these new lycanthropes are 
listed below. As additional species 
become known, game masters will have 
to develop statistics for them. Some 
guidelines for creating new lycan 
thropes are: 

• Climate: Any, but tending toward the 
animal's range. 

• Frequency: Rare. 

• Organization: As per normal animal. 

• Active cycle: The lycanthropic form 
is only present during the night. 

• Diet: As per animal. 

• Intelligence: Any. 

• Treasure: Any. 

• Alignment: Any. 

• Number appearing: As per animal. 

• Armor class: Normal animal AC 
minus ld4. 

• Movement: Normal human or animal 
rate (depending on form). 

• Hit Dice: Lycanthrope hit dice are the 


sum of normal human and normal 
animal hit dice. 

• Number of attacks: As per animal. 

• Damage/ attack: At least as dangerous 
as the normal animal. 

Special attack: As per animal. 

• Special defenses: 90% of new lycan 
thropic species can only be harmed 
by silver or magical weapons of +1 
or greater. 

• Magic resistance: 90% of new lycan 
thropic species have no magical 
resistance. 

• Size: Any hybrid forms are halfway 
between the human and animal 
sizes. 

• Morale: Most are steady (11-12) or 
very steady (13-14). 

Recently discovered lycanthropes 
include: 

Werebison: These Neutral Good 
creatures are the largest and, so far, the 
only herbivorous lycanthropes. They 
are humanoids of above average size 
who can turn into a form resembling a 
minotaur but possessing a bison-like 
head and short horns. Werebison 
attack by charging headfirst into their 
opponents; the charge does ld4 points 
of damage. The hooved feet stomp for 
ld2 points of damage. They normally 
do not bite opponents, hence the 
spread of this form of lycanthropy is 
limited only to those the werebison pur 
posely infects. 

Werecats: These Chaotic Good crea 
tures have two forms. One resembles a 
human-sized house cat. The other is a 
hybrid with feline features (hind legs, 
head, claws, tail, and fur) over a human 
oid frame. They are sworn enemies of 
the wererats. Werecats speak any feline 
language, even when in human form. 
Each front claw does ld2 points of dam 
age or rakes for ld3 each. The bite does 
ld4. Even in human form, the strong 
fingernails enable each hand to do 1 
point of damage. 

Weredogs: These Lawful Good crea 
tures resemble large dogs such as mas 
tiffs, St. Bernards, or German 
shepherds. Their bites do ld6 points of 
damage. They have 3 hit dice +3. Were 
dogs appeared as a canine counter to 


36 














































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


the werewolves. They are often Good- 
aligned people whose personalities 
were so strong that they managed to 
alter the effects of the impending lycan- 
thropy. Weredogs are sworn to destroy 
the more numerous and powerful 
werewolves. Unfortunately, most peo 
ple still have trouble telling weredogs 
and werewolves apart. Consequently, 
those the weredog tries to help may be 
scared and turn against it. 

Weredolphins: These are Lawful 
Good beings that are able to transform 
themselves into elf-like humanoids or 
bottlenose dolphins. Weredolphins 
attack by ramming (2d4 points of dam 
age). They can summon ldlO dolphins 
or other small cetaceans or ld2 whales. 
During the day, weredolphins may rest 
atop whales or come ashore. They are 
the enemies of the weresharks and 
wereseals. 

Weredragons: These are people 
who are able to transform themselves 
into a hybrid form that combines a 


humanoid shape with distinctly dragon 
like features such as scales, fangs, 
claws, wings, and a long tail. All have 
wings, even those species emulating the 
non-winged gold dragons. Each of these 
creatures have the same alignment as 
the dragon it resembles. They have 8 
hit dice. Their bites and clawed hands 
each do ld6 points of damage. They can 
also use the dragon's breath weapon 
once each day. 

Wereleopards: These Lawful Neu 
tral lycanthropes transform into shapes 
similar to spotted leopards. They have a 
hybrid form that combines the overall 
humanoid shape with leopard-like feet, 
tail, pelt, face, and ears. Wereleopards 
move silently at great speed (12) and 
climb easily, even when carrying a bur 
den equal to their weight. 

Wereowls ("Wrowls"): These Neu 
tral Good beings are the first known 
avian lycanthropes. They transform at 
night into man-sized great snowy owls. 
Wereowls, which are highly intelligent. 


can speak Common in this form. They 
attack with their claws (ld3 each) and 
beaks (ld2). They fly at a rate of 18 and 
are maneuverability class C. Wereowls 
are the natural enemies of the harpies. 

Werepanthers: These Lawful Neu 
tral lycanthropes turn into sleek black 
panthers or slim, athletic humans with 
dark hair and a slight trace of elven fea 
tures. It is unknown which is the were- 
panther's real form (50% chance either 
way). Werepanthers move silently at 
great speed (12) and climb easily, even 
when carrying a burden equal to the 
their weight. Their ebony coats make 
them difficult to spot in the dark. 

Werespiders: These Lawful Evil 
creatures turn into giant web-spinning 
spiders with poisonous bites. Even as 
humans, they are skilled weavers and 
spinners. Werespiders are firm believ 
ers in a society as strictly ordered as 
their webs. They detest Chaotic spider 
like monsters. 


37 

















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


PR)wce Tr)sTanj 
Kesidiziok 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 37-95 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 + l/ld8 + 4 

(Normal long sword/ Sword of Cymry- 
ch Hugh) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
12th-Level Human Ranger 
S:17 1:16 W:14 D:18 C:17 CH:18 

Physical description: Tristan is a 
young human male who, early in his 
career, seemed to have no care in the 
world. When in times of peace, Tristan 
wears the usual Ffolk garb of cloak and 
trousers and boots. He has a new coat 
of hair on his chin. 

In combat, Tristan wears a suit of 
banded mail armor and favors a long 
sword. He is an indifferent archer, 
though he has learned more as he has 
progressed in experience. 

As high king, Tristan wears the crown 
of the high king, which is a simple gold 
circlet with eight points. 

Equipment: Tristan wields the 
Sword of Cymrych Hugh, a long sword 
first used by his ancestor to defeat 
Kazgaroth and found the line of the 
high kings. When he found it, its hilt 
was wrapped in old, dull, leather, and it 
rode in a scabbard of dull, brown, leath 
er. The blade, however, is silver, and it 
shines with a light all its own. The blade 
is emblazoned with a crest and motto in 
the Old Script. According to the "Ballad 
of Cymrych Hugh," the sword was 
forged by dwarven smiths from metal 
forged by the Goddess herself. 

This sword is a long sword +4. It has 
a special purpose of defeating 
Kazgaroth. Its special purpose power is 
to cause fear in its target for ld4 
rounds. It detects evil in a 2" radius and 


communicates by empathy. Its Intelli 
gence is 12, and its Ego 13. If Kazgaroth 
is within 36" of the sword, and the 
wielder touches the sword by the hilt, 
he must make a successful saving 
throw vs. spell or be compelled to seek 
out the monster and battle it directly. 

Tristan also rides the white stallion 
Avalon, a war horse who is very similar 
to a paladin's war horse. Avalon is larg 
er than any other horse on the Moon- 
shaes. Possession of this steed gives the 
rider command over the fighting serv 
ices of the Sister Knights of Synnoria, 
otherwise known as the Warriors of the 
Llewyrr. These are a troop of elven 
warrior maidens. The troop never 
numbers more than 25 (there were 20 
when they first took service with Tris 
tan), and each is a third-level fighter 
with AC 1, riding a heavy war horse 
with the speed and maneuverability of 
a medium horse. These horses are 
mares and geldings of Avalon's herd. 
The troop is led by Brigit, a fifth-level 
fighter. 

Tristan's other main "equipment" is 
Canthus, a moor hound from the isle of 
Moray. Canthus is a large and powerful 
specimen of the already powerful 
breed, with a proud bearing unusual 
for its kind. His brown coat gleams, 
thick and smooth, over broad shoul 
ders and long, slender, but powerful 
legs. His teeth are the size of a man's lit 
tle finger. 

Canthus is a war dog (see MONSTER 
MANUAL) but he has 3 + 3 hit dice, 20 
hit points, and an armor class of 5. His 
damage per attack is ld8 + 2. Canthus 
has a dog's normal intelligence, but is 
inspired by the Goddess to protect and 
serve Tristan. Canthus also wears a 
torque of the Goddess (see Robyn) 
under his spiked iron collar. 

Personality: Initially, Tristan was 
outwardly carefree and inwardly trou 
bled by his father's constant criticism. 
As events transpired in the Moonshae 
Isles, first with the advent of Kazgaroth 
and then the machinations of the Coun 
cil of Wizards, he became more self- 
confident and assertive. However, he 
still had a tendency to retreat from his 


cares when danger was not pressing on 
him, trying to drown his sorrows in 
drink and carousing. This did nothing 
to endear him to his father, who saw 
him first as an unworthy wastrel, and 
then as a good war officer who was still 
incompetent as a peacetime leader. 

When his father was slain by assas 
sins (see background), Tristan was first 
cast adrift. But he found his path in try 
ing to track down his father's murder 
ers, and the path took him to his true 
heritage, as high king of the Ffolk of the 
Moonshae Isles. 

Motivations: Initially, Tristan's 
motivation was both to live up to his 
father's exacting standards and to avoid 
the onerous duties of being the prince 
of Corwell whenever he could. This 
constant contradiction in motivation 
drove him to drink and other excesses. 
But the coming of Kazgaroth made him 
realize that he owed the duty of leader 
ship to his people, and the machinations 
of the Council of Wizards made him 
realize that he had to unite all of the 
Ffolk under one strong ruler to keep 
them and their way of life intact against 
the threats of Kazgaroth, the 
Northmen, and the people of the main 
land. 

Background: Tristan was prince of 
Corwell, son of King Bryon Kendrick of 
the royal line of Corwell. His mother 
died a few years after he was born, and 
his father mourned her for 10 years 
after that, in some part blaming Tristan 
for her death. 

King Bryon was determined to make 
his son a good ruler for Corwell, but 
lacked the ability to make such a goal 
interesting to Tristan. Bryon also had 
the care of Robyn, the young daughter 
of the great druid, Brianna Moonsinger, 
who had died trying to destroy 
Kazgaroth single-handedly. Tristan 
grew up with Robyn, at first thinking 
her his sister, then, as he realized there 
was no real relationship, his brotherly 
fondness turned to love. 

However, he continued to disappoint 
his father until, on a hunting trip with 
his tutor, the arms master Arlen, 
Robyn, his old friend Pawldo, his new 


38 














































hound Canthus, and his new friend 
Daryth of Calimshan, he ran afoul of fir 
bolgs, and Arlen was killed. 

He was saved by Keren, the greatest 
bard of the Moonshaes, and learned 
that the high king felt there was a 
threat looming for Corwell. 

When Keren disappeared after leav 
ing Corwell for Alaron, Tristan and his 
friends attempted to find him and 
finally followed his trail to Myrloch Vale 
where they rescued him and the dwarf 
Finellen from the firbolgs and discov 
ered the fabled Sword of Cymrych 
Hugh in a firbolg treasure house. 

Going back to Corwell, the party dis 
covered that the Northmen had invad 
ed in force, destroying several cantrevs 
and marching on Corwell itself. More 
over, a party of Northmen were going 
through Myrloch Vale in an attempt to 
cut off the retreat of the refugees from 
the cantrevs and keep them from rein 
forcing Corwell. 

Attempting to catch the Northmen, 
Tristan and his friends first found the 
stallion Avalon and the Sisters of Synno- 
ria, then met Finellen again, this time 
with a party of dwarves who had been 
sent to oppose the firbolgs going to join 
the Northmen under Kazgaroth's direc 
tion. 

Tristan forged the elven war maidens, 
the dwarves, and refugees from the 
cantrevs into a force that met the 
Northmen on the road and drove them 
away, allowing the refugees to escape 
to Corwell. Canthus was seemingly 
killed at this time, though his body was 
not recovered. 

In fact, Canthus was revived by Gen- 
na Moonsinger, the great druid of Gwy- 
nneth, who sent him off to oppose the 
werewolf who had taken command of 
the Pack, one of the "children" of the 
Goddess. 

Tristan and his friends arrived in Cor 
well to find it besieged by Thelgar 
Ironhand (actually Kazgaroth) of Oman, 
who had already slain the Leviathan, 
another of the Goddess' children. 

Tristan fought Kazgaroth and the 
besieging Northmen, finally wounding 
the monster sorely. When Canthus led 
the Pack into the Northmen, Robyn 


destroyed almost all of the Bloodriders, 
and Tristan wounded Kazgaroth. The 
beast gave up his plan of conquest and 
fled. Tristan and his friends followed, 
finally confronting Kazgaroth again at 
the Moonwell Kazgaroth had corrupt 
ed. 

In a hard-fought battle, they finally 
brought the beast low, slaying it with a 
combination of the sword and druidic 
magic. By the end of the fight, Tristan, 
Pawldo, Daryth, and Keren had all 
fallen, but the Goddess was able to 


bring all but Keren (who had been dis 
integrated) back to life. 

For the next year, Tristan helped his 
father supervise the recovery of Cor 
well. However, his father was still criti 
cal of his every effort, so he spent much 
of his time in carousing and hunting to 
avoid his father's eye. Also, in the 
course of the fight against Kazgaroth, 
Robyn had discovered her heritage as a 
druid, and went off to Myrloch Vale to 
study the arts with her newly discov 
ered aunt, Genna Moonsinger, the great 


39 



























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


druid. Tristan, who had fallen finally 
and irrevocably in love with Robyn, 
was also devastated by her absence, 
and tried to solace himself in his revel 
ries. 

However, a year after Kazgaroth was 
slain, the machinations of Cyndre and 
his Council of Sorcerers came to frui 
tion. Assassins attacked Tristan and his 
father and killed the king. Daryth, com 
ing to their aid, recognized Razfallow, a 
half-ore assassin he had known in 
Calimshan. 

Tristan was not necessarily the first 
choice to assume his father's crown. He 
was opposed by Pontswain, a cantrev 
lord with a royal lineage who attempted 
to parlay his long experience and Tris 
tan's youth into his selection as the new 
king. 

It was decided to let the high king 
decide, but when Pontswain and Tris 
tan (with Daryth and Canthus) attempt 
ed to go to Alaron, their boat was 
sabotaged and they found themselves 
washed up on the castle of Queen Alli- 
syn, where Tristan was told that a new 
high king would be selected who bore 
the Sword of Cymrych Hugh. They 
were then picked up by a passing bard 
and taken to Alaron. 

There they were arrested by the 
Scarlet Guard of the high king, who was 
convinced that Tristan was there to 
assassinate him. 

Rescued by Pawldo and Daryth, Tris 
tan and Pontswain were forced to go 
deep into the earth, where they found 
first Alexei, one of the Council of Sor 
cerers, whom Cyndre had imprisoned 
there. Then, as they escaped through a 
secret passage that led out of Caer Calli- 
dyrr, they found Finellen, who was 
leading a force of dwarves sent to hunt 
duergar (gray dwarves). 

Eventually finding their way to the 
surface again, Tristan joined forces 
with O'Roarke, a nobleman who had 
been disinherited by the high king and 
who had set himself up in the forest as 
an outlaw. 

There, he was met by Robyn, who 
was fleeing the destruction of the 
Moonwell on Corwell by Hobarth. 


When Cyndre led the Scarlet Guard to 
destroy O'Roarke's hideout, the friends 
managed to get away, incidentally ful 
filling most of the aspects of Queen Alli- 
syn's prophecy on the way. 

Finally, they defeated Cyndre and the 
high king in a climatic battle, and Tris 
tan was proclaimed the new high king, 
having fulfilled all the conditions of the 
prophecy. 

From Alaron they journeyed back to 
Myrloch Vale, to find it devastated by 
Hobarth, Bhaal himself, and a corrupt 
ed Genna Moonsinger. By clever diplo 
macy, Tristan managed to enlist 
Grunnarch, the last king of the 
Northmen, on his side and find a force 
to oppose Bhaal and his minions. In this 
final struggle they lost good friends, 
such as Daryth, but finally managed to 
prevail. 

Now Tristan is the monarch of all the 
Moonshaes, and he and Robyn must 
face a new Moonshae unlike anything 
they have known before. 

With the destruction of much of 
Myrloch Vale, and the destruction of 
most of the druids of the Moonshaes, 
the Goddess is no longer a major force 
in the Moonshae Islands. New gods are 
coming to the islands, and somehow 
they must be accommodated, and the 
Ffolk and Northmen must find a way to 
accommodate their ways of life to these 
new gods. Tristan and Robyn, with 
Grunnarch, must somehow lead their 
combined people into this new, fright 
ening, age. 

Other notes: Using Tristan in a cam 
paign set in the Moonshaes depends on 
the time period in which the DM sets 
the adventure. If set in the time depict 
ed in FR2, MOONSHAE, Tristan is a 
young lad, perhaps 10 years old, and 
already suffering from the moodiness 
and grim authority of his father. 

If set in the time just before the 
advent of Kazgaroth, Tristan is a popu 
lar but little-respected young prince 
still trying to find a place in the world 
that he enjoys without the onerous 
duties of being a prince. At this time he 
can be an interesting chance-met tav 
ern or hunting companion. During the 


time depicted in the three books of The 
Moonshae Trilogy, Tristan is how you 
find him in the books, a young man 
much worried by fate and trying to 
make the Moonshaes a safe place for 
himself and his people again. 

The period between the first two 
books of the trilogy is an interesting 
time to know Tristan, as he is a great 
hero, yet still chafing at the duties of 
being a prince. At this time, he makes a 
rather desperate hunting and drinking 
companion, trying to lose his sorrow 
over the departure of Robyn to 
Myrloch Vale and the ongoing criti 
cisms of his father. At this time, he is 
ready for any adventure to take his 
mind off his self-pity. 

After the time of the Trilogy, Tristan is 
a fair and powerful king, who rules the 
Ffolk and influences the Northmen as 
well. Domestic relationships are quiet, 
but there are still monsters loose 
throughout Gwynneth and the other 
isles, thanks to the efforts of Hobarth 
and Bhaal. Newcomer adventurers, 
perhaps brought to the Moonshaes by 
stories of combat and loot to be found, 
can get plenty of work from King Tris 
tan to help the people clean up the mon 
sters that still threaten them. 

If someone should get into combat 
with Tristan at any time in his career, 
they will find him a good close-in fight 
er, who rarely uses missile weapons 
when he can close with a sword. Of 
course, when the sword is that of 
Cymrych Hugh, one can understand his 
preference for that weapon. 

On a more peaceful note, Tristan is a 
very open and trusting young man. He 
is easily guiled and fooled by a friendly 
voice and manner. If he finds he has 
been fooled, however, he is quick to 
anger and want revenge. Con men 
should consider carefully their plots if 
they think to take advantage of his good 
nature. 


40 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


The Royal Uwe of the 
Moowshaes 

Many hundred years ago, the king of 
the small kingdom of Callidyrr on the 
island of Alaron united the Ffolk of the 
Moonshaes to fight the incursions of 
the beast who had named himself 
Kazgaroth. With the blessings of the 
Goddess and a sword forged for him by 
the finest of dwarven craftsmen, 
Cymrych Hugh faced Kazgaroth. The 
might of the sword and the king drove 
the beast back to the darkened recesses 
of his home, badly wounded but not 
killed. There it remained for many cen 
turies. 

Cymrych Hugh returned to Callidyrr 
to build the spectacular Caer Callidyrr, 
the seat of the high kings, and to deal 
with his sorrow. 

Queen Allisynn: Cymrych Hugh 
survived the war with Kazgaroth, 
though he was sorely wounded. His 
young queen, Allisynn, was not so for 
tunate. In honor of his love for this 
queen, Cymrych Hugh had a palace cre 
ated to house her body and vast trea 
sures. This castle resides on an island 
that spends most of its time at the bot 
tom of the Strait of Alaron, but rises to 
the surface perhaps four times a year 
on particularly bright days so that his 
queen can once again enjoy the sun- 
light. 

The sahuagin of the area use the cas 
tle as a way point for their patrols. They 
are too evil to touch the treasures safe 
ly, but they oppose anyone who might 
be allowed to touch the treasures in a 
typical display of sahuagin spite. 

When Tristan Kendrick was adrift on 
the strait, the castle appeared to him 
and, when he explored it, he saw Queen 
Allisynn, who returned the Sword of 
Cymrych Hugh to him (it had been lost 
in the shipwreck that set him adrift). 
She also gave him a prophecy that 
stated that a new high king would arise 
who held the sword and had the name 
of Cymrych. 

The sons of Cymrych Hugh: 
Cymrych Hugh had to remarry to pro 
vide more high kings to follow him. He 


married the daughter of a major chief 
tain of Gwynneth and had three chil 
dren before she died in childbirth. He 
remarried again and had two more chil 
dren before he finally died of complica 
tions arising from the wounds he 
received in the battle with Kazgaroth so 
many years before. His oldest son, who 
was only 13, took over the crown of the 
high king, and Cymrych Hugh's other 
children married into the noble families 
of the Isles and became the progenitors 
of all the kings of the Moonshaes. The 
war with Kazgaroth had destroyed 
most of the ruling families, so the chil 
dren and grandchildren of Cymrych 
Hugh rapidly became part of the blood 
lines of all the royal families. 

Moreover, even the husbands of his 
daughters took Cymrych as a family 
name. Within a couple of centuries, 
every noble family in the Moonshaes 
had Cymrych as a family name. 

Unfortunately, this was the only uni 
fying factor among them. While each 
ruler gave lip service to the primacy of 
the high king, each attempted to other 
wise promote his own importance to 
the detriment of the others. 

When the Northmen arrived from 
the Sword Coast, they found a collec 
tion of squabbling kingdoms, ready 
made for conquest. The reigning high 
king, Dolan Cymrych, attempted to 
meet the Northmen at the northern tip 
of Alaron, near what is now Sunder- 
staad, but he made the mistake of 
attempting to cross Whitefish Bay in a 
coracle flotilla. They were met by the 
fast-sailing long ships of the Northmen, 
and the flotilla was virtually destroyed. 
Dolan died trying to cover his followers' 
retreat, and the crown of the high kings 
went to the bottom of the sea. 

Dolan's son, Conn, survived the bat 
tle, but the loss of the crown (not to 
mention the battle) was a severe blow 
to his position. While he was the undis 
puted high king, his authority was 
undermined. Each lord paid his 
respects to the high king but gave him 
no attention. Instead, each small king 
and cantrev lord attempted to fight the 
Northmen in his own way, and usually 


lost. In a hundred years, the Northmen 
had settled in Norland, Norheim, Oman, 
and northern Alaron and Gwynneth, 
and relations with them settled down to 
occasional raids and counter-raids. 

Conn had rescued the Sword of 
Cymrych Hugh, but that proved no 
more potent than any other good 
sword against the Northmen invaders. 

A hundred years later, when the 
Northmen had become just another 
fact of life to the Ffolk, another high 
king led his men into Myrloch Vale to 
quell firbolg incursions into Corwell. 
The Ffolk were ambushed and, though 
the Ffolk won the fight, the high king 
slain in the fighting. The sword was not 
recovered. Apparently, firbolg survi 
vors of the fight took it away with them 
and stored it in their treasuries, where 
it was eventually recovered by Tristan 
Kendrick. 

The names of Cymrych Hugh: 

About 400 years ago, when the crown 
of Cymrych Hugh had been lost and the 
various kingdoms and cantrevs were 
moving further and further away from 
allegiance to the high king, the names of 
the royal families began to change. 
Many of the families had Cymrych as 
their name, so the various branches 
took to spelling and pronouncing their 
particular names differently. Thus, the 
royal line of Corwell derived Kendrick 
from Cymrych. 

Thus, when Queen Allisynn said that 
Tristan was to see a high king who held 
the Sword of Cymrych Hugh and was 
named Cymrych, she was really talking 
about Tristan himself, and she proved 
this true by bringing the crown of the 
high king to Tristan when his followers 
were proclaiming him the new high king. 

Thus, Tristan is the first high king in 
centuries to possess both the crown 
and sword of the high king. That, and 
the destruction of so many royal fami 
lies of the Moonshaes - thanks to the 
depradations of Kazgaroth and the 
machinations of Cyndre and Hobarth, 
should make him the greatest high king 
to reign in the history of the Moonshaes 
since Cymrych Hugh himself. 


41 













































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


M)dw)gbT 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (5'6") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Magic-User 
S:6 1:16 W:10 D:ll C:10 CH:17 

Armor: None. 

Languages: Common, Elven, Dwar- 
ven. 

Possessions: Dagger, staff, 
spellbooks. Midnight's main spellbook is 
bound in heavy black leather and is 
trimmed with a pewter clasp, hinges, 
and an "M" rune to mark its owner. The 
book measures 16" by 12" and is 6" 
thick. Midnight's traveling spellbook 
matches the larger tome. It is bound in 
matching black leather and has a simi 
lar "M" rune embroidered on its cover. 
The book measures 8" by 6" and is 1" 
thick. 

Weapons of proficiency: Dagger 
(Id4/ld31), staff (Id6/ld6). 

Experience points: 65,000. 
Money: 375 gp. 

Spells: Midnight's spellbook includes 
the following spells. Those marked by 
an asterisk are ones she most likely 
retains on a given day: 

• First-Level - Armor, charm person, 
comprehend languages, feather fall, 
magic missile*, run, Tensor's floating 
disk, identify read magic*, shocking 
grasp, sleep*. 

• Second-level - Continual light, dark 
ness (15' radius), deep pockets, 
detect evil, invisibility*, levitate, 
locate object, ESP*, shutter, scare, 
wizard lock. 

• Third-level - Clairaudience, clair 
voyance, feign death, fly*, fireball, 
haste, hold person, infravision, mate 
rial, suggestion, water breathing. 


Fourth-level - Enchanted weapon, 
dimension door, fire charm, fire 
shield, ice storm, Leomund's secure 
shelter, massmorph, polymorph oth 
ers, polymorph self. 

She is able to use four first-level, 
three second-level, two third-level, and 
one fourth-level spell each day. As a gift 
from Mystra, Midnight possesses a per 
manently active form of detect magic. 

Combat: Because of her low 
Strength, she is -1 to hit. Midnight is a 
cautious woman. If she is alone, she will 
attempt to turn invisible and fly away. If 
battling alongside companions, she will 
quietly move to a position that offers 
her both protection and the maximum 
ability to use her offensive spells. If she 
lacks such spells, she will attempt to dis 
tract opponents and decrease their abil 
ity to defend themselves from her 
companions. 

Appearance: Midnight is a thin 
woman in her late 20s with tight, wiry 
muscles. She has jet black hair and deep 
ebon and scarlet eyes, a sharp contrast 
to her pale ivory skin. The hair reaches 
to her waist, but she usually braids it 
during the day. She prefers black, indi 
go, or deep violet clothing. 

Personality: In her early days. Mid 
night was a hell-raiser and a hedonist, 
dedicated to serving her own interests. 
She was very tough, very capable, and 
very self-assured. 

When she wants to be sociable, she 
can ignite her sultry beauty and sensu 
ality. In her youth, she was extremely 
promiscuous and freely traded her 
favors for magical training. But during 
the crisis of the gods, she changed. She 
became a crusader determined to free 
humanity from the gods who more 
often preyed upon them than helped 
them. 

Midnight is guarded about her past. 
She believes she would be taken less 
seriously if she was revealed to be a 
merchant's daughter. 

Relatives: Theus Manx (father), 
Paiyse Manx (mother), Rysanna (sister). 
Allies: Adon, Cyric, Kelemvor. 
Patron deity: Mystra. 

Personal history: Midnight was 


born Ariel Manx, the second child of 
Theus Manx. Theus was a merchant 
who was entirely without dreams or 
imagination. He understood hard work 
for honest pay; he had no patience for 
those seeking shortcuts in life. He was a 
modest man with simple expectations 
for his future. He would have liked at 
least one son, but accepted the two 
daughters Paiyse bore him. 

Paiyse wanted nothing but the best 
for her family. She was very insecure 
and self-conscious. She constantly wor 
ried about finances, the family's rela 
tively low social standing, and her 
self-perceived faults. She never accept 
ed the truth that she was a very attrac 
tive woman and a loving mother. 

Rysanna, the oldest daughter, was the 
daughter every parent dreams of hav 
ing. Rysanna was always willing to help 
around the house or assist Theus' busi 
ness. She assumed the role of the fami 
ly's demure "princess" whenever 
wealthy suitors called. 

Ariel was a year younger and radical 
ly different. What she didn't find in the 
normal world of her parents, she found 
in the nocturnal world of the streets. As 
a teenager, she became a familiar part 
of the night's populace of bards, 
thieves, sorcerers, and fighters. She 
became friends with everyone who 
appreciated impish beauty and adven 
turous spirit. Her friends gave her the 
name "Midnight," one she immediately 
preferred to Ariel. 

A tryst with the conjurer Tar gave her 
her first taste of magic and set the pat 
tern for her life. She became less inter 
ested in hedonistic pursuits and more 
in the quest for magical knowledge and 
training. She became obsessed with her 
new quest. 

Rysanna was outwardly repulsed by 
the havoc induced be her sister's behav 
ior, but inwardly she was intrigued by 
magic. Rysanna shared her sister's inde 
pendent spirit; she just hid it better. 
Rysanna looked to Midnight's magic as 
proof that there was more to life than 
following her parents' wishes and 
allowing suitors to court her. 

Rysanna decided to secretly study 


42 

















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



Midnight's magical texts and parapher 
nalia. One dark night she encountered 
an intruder. It was Tar, who'd come to 
profess his undying love for Midnight 
(whom he thought was with him). He 
poured out his heart and promised her 
an endless amount of wealth, adven 
ture, and undying love. Without even 
seeing his face, Rysanna fell madly in 
love. The tryst that ensued was inter 
rupted by the intrusion of her parents. 
When Midnight returned at dawn, she 
discovered Rysanna and Tar were now 
engaged, and her parents were trying 
to figure out how to explain a magician 
for a son-in-law. 

That day Midnight finally moved out. 
She fell into the worship of Mystra, god 
dess of magic. She even served in a tem 
ple for a time until her natural 
rambunctiousness made even that life 
unbearable. Around her 21st year, she 
began to feel a presence from time to 
time. She would feel her skin tingle 
cooly with the certain knowledge that 
she was somehow being followed or 
observed. She found the feeling com 
forted her, especially after she noticed 
the benefits that resulted. It always 
happened that, after one of these 
occurences, a spell she had been labor 
ing over for weeks on end would sud 
denly work without any problem. 

Midnight suspected that she had been 
granted the special attention of the god 
dess Mystra. She also believed that Mys 
tra was watching over her, perhaps 
even grooming her for the position of 
Magister. 

Sunlar, a high priest in the 
Deepingdale temple of Mystra, took an 
interest in Midnight, and, under his 
supervision, Midnight's knowledge of 
self-defense (which she had learned 
previously in the streets) was refined. 
Her study of magic was encouraged 
and rewarded, too. Sunlar refused to 
tell Midnight of his motives for taking 
her under his wing. This mysterious 
behavior fueled Midnight's suspicions 
that she had been singled out for some 
great destiny. 

Midnight spent almost a year in the 
temple at Deepingdale, and when the 
time came for her to leave, she was 


amazed at the amount of time that had 
passed. It was almost as if some outside 
force had tampered with her natural 
restlessness. 

For the next three years, Midnight 
devoted herself to Mystra's worship 
and pursued every scrap of magic she 
could. Yet she felt unfulfilled, as if she 
were going about this in the wrong 
way. She supported herself by an occa 
sional foray with a mercenary band, or 


perhaps passing herself off as a carnival 
fortune teller. She continued to feel 
restless, confused, and helpless. She 
saw herself as a pawn waiting for its 
moment in the game. In her 26th year, 
the veil lifted. Midnight now knew what 
she was to do. The crisis of the gods had 
arrived. 

Midnight met her future allies Adon, 
Kelemvor, and Cyric when they needed 
a mage for a mission they had planned. 


43 

























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Robyw 

ARMOR CLASS: 4-2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 28-76 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: Id6/ld6 + 2 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Druid 
S:14 1:16 W:18 D:16 C:16 CH:17 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First Level - Animal friendship, 
entangle, invisibility to animals, 
locate animals, speak with animals. 

• Second Level - Barkskin, heat metal, 
locate plants, obscurement, warp 
wood. 

• Third Level - Plant growth, protec 
tion from fire, summon insects. 

• Fourth Level - Cure serious 
wounds, cause serious wounds. 

• Fifth Level - Animal summoning II, 
insect plague, wall of fire. 

• Sixth Level - Fire seeds, weather 
summoning. 

• Seventh Level - Control weather. 

At seventh level, Robyn learned to 

change her shape as other druids do at 
that level. 

Physical description: Robyn's 
black hair gleams in the sunlight, and 
her green eyes sparkle. She is usually 
clad in practical garb - a linen tunic 
with green leggings and a cape the col 
or of bright rust. Yet her beauty out 
shines that of the most daintily dressed 
maidens. 

She has a hearty, feminine laugh. Her 
black hair flows freely, settling down 
her back as far as her hips. Her slender 
waist is supple and strong. 

If in combat, Robyn wears leather 
armor and is armed with a staff. Once 
she obtained the Staff of the White 
Well, she used it as a weapon, as is 
reflected in the game stats above. 
Robyn also wears a silver torque of the 
Goddess around her neck. 


Equipment: Robyn wears a torque 
of the Goddess about her neck and car 
ries the Staff of the White Well, which is 
a druid staff. 

The torque of the Goddess is a silver 
band worn about the neck. It is com 
monly used by druids and other mem 
bers of the Ffolk. This torque functions 
in all respects as a ring of protection +2 
(most are + 1) and can be used in con 
junction with any other magical rings 
except other rings of protection. Addi 
tionally, the torque provides its wearer 
with immunity to lycanthropy, though 
not the damage from a lycanthropic 
attack. The wearer receives a +2 to all 
attack and damage rolls against a lycan- 
thrope. Although the torque does not 
allow a weapon that would not normal 
ly harm a lycanthrope to harm one, the 
wearer can harm a lycanthrope with 
his or her hands or teeth. The leaders of 
hunting dog packs used to track lycan- 
thropes are often equipped with such 
collars. 

The Staff of the White Well is a su 
perior form of druid staff. It is a long 
staff of white ash that allows the user to 
perform several special functions. 

Unlike other druid staffs that have an 
animal likeness carved into them, and 
can summon animals of all members of 
the species carved on the staff, this staff 
can summon animals of any species the 
bearer chooses. However, the user 
must be specific as to the species sum 
moned. Robyn cannot summon every 
species in the forest at once. Each sum 
moning takes two charges. All animals 
of the called species within 12 miles 
hasten to the druid as quickly as possi 
ble. Once they reach the druid, they act 
as if under an animal control spell. The 
staff can also be used to cast animal con 
trol at any animal within sight of the 
staffs user, at a cost of one charge. 

The staff is also a magical weapon, 
with a +2 bonus to hit, inflicting 
ld6 + 2 points of damage on a success 
ful hit. The staff also functions as a 
python staff with the characteristics of 
the staff of the serpent as detailed in the 
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. This 
includes the destruction of the staff if 


the serpent is killed. Using the staff as a 
snake costs one charge. 

At a cost of two charges, the staff can 
be used to cast one of the following dru- 
idical spells: call lightning, plant 
growth, dispel magic (as if cast by a 
15th-level druid), cure disease, cure 
serious wounds, speak with plants. 

Once per month, with no cost in 
charges, the staff can perform one of 
the following greater abilities: wall of 
fire, insect plague, transmute rock to 
mud, wall of thorns, weather summon 
ing, conjure fire elemental, conjure 
earth elemental, fire storm. 

After using its greater power once, 
the staff only regains this ability if it is 
recharged in the Moonwell beneath a 
full moon, as explained in FR2 MOON- 
SHAE. 

Use of the spells of the staff by a druid 
who does not have the experience to 
normally use the spells drains the 
energy of the druid. For every such 
spell used in battle, the druid must rest 
for 10 minutes after the battle. If more 
than one such spell is used in a battle, 
the user must make a Constitution abili 
ty check every time he uses the staff 
after the first time. If the staff is touch 
ed by a person or creature of Evil align 
ment, the toucher takes 3d6 points of 
damage every round he holds the staff. 

The staff can be fully recharged by 
exposing it to the light of the full moon 
once a month. 

Robyn also has her mother's book of 
druid spells. It contains all the usual 
druid spells, plus the unique druid 
spells of briartangle, smoke ghost, 
thorn spray, and death chariot. (All of 
these are described in the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(tm) DM'S SOURCEBOOK OF THE 
REALMS.) 

Personality: Robyn is a bright and 
friendly young woman who is solicitous 
of her friends and dedicated to the 
woods and animals that occupy so 
much of her time. She is much beloved 
in Corwell for her sunny personality 
and caring attitude. 

However, when she or her friends are 
threatened, she can turn into a tigress 
in defense. Unlike many druids, who 


44 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



will wait for later revenge against 
despoilers of nature, Robyn is ready to 
attack when the action happens. 

Motivations: Robyn is dedicated to 
the wild woods. Even before she knew 
of her heritage as a druid, Robyn was 
good with animals and an excellent 
tracker. However, she never hunted, 
though she accompanied her friend 
Tristan on his hunts. She used the time 
in the forest to sharpen her woods skills 
and gather healing herbs. 

Once she learned of her heritage as 
the daughter of one great druid and the 
niece of another, she dedicated herself 
to becoming as good a druid as her 
mother and aunt. When Hobarth 
attempted to destroy the Moonwell, she 
fought him with every spell and skill at 
her command. 

The only motivation that matches her 
devotion to the forest is her love for 
Tristan. 

Background notes: Robyn is the 
daughter of Brianna Moonsinger, form 
er chief druid (Neutral cleric who wor 
ships The Balance of nature) of the 
Moonshaes, and niece of Genna Moon- 
singer, the current chief druid. 

Her father is unknown. When she 
was a year old, Brianna brought her 
daughter to King Bryon for safekeeping 
while she tried to prevent the growth of 
Kazgaroth. She failed. 

The king raised Robyn as his own, 
saying that she was the daughter of a 
favorite guardsman who died in battle. 
In this way, he tried to keep her and her 
obvious power from being corrupted 
by the evil growing in the land. 

When Kazgaroth arose, Robyn 
already had an instinctive knowledge of 
several druid spells, though she had no 
idea of how she knew them. By the time 
of the events of DARKWALKER ON 
MOONSHAE, she had gained the fourth 
level of experience as a druid without 
realizing what she was doing. She first 
realized her powers when she used an 
entangle spell to keep the gigantic fir- 
bolgs from killing Prince Tristan. 

In the initial stages of the battle 
against Kazgaroth, she found herself 
capable of many feats of druid magic. 
When she next saw King Bryon, the 


king gave her the Staff of the Wlute 
Well and the magic spellbook that had 
been her mothers. With these items 
she gained more expertise rapidly. 

In a battle with Kazgaroth, when he 
turned himself into a winged beast, and 
she attempted to attack it where it 
rested in Caer Corwell, using both the 
staff and her own magic to good effect 
until her friends could arrive to drive 
the monster off. 

In the climactic moments of the siege 
of Caer Corwell, Robyn destroyed most 


of the Bloodriders, then was abducted 
by the sole survivor, their leader, who 
attempted to sacrifice her to renew his 
powers. The intervention of Genna 
Moonsinger and her friends Newt and 
Kammryn the Unicorn kept her safe 
and gave her the knowledge of how to 
recharge the staff, which she had 
depleted in the siege. She then used the 
staff and her own magic to help Tristan 
and the others slay Kazgaroth. 

Once Kazgaroth had been destroyed, 
Robyn realized that she had to learn 


45 

































































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


more of her heritage and power. She 
temporarily turned her back on the 
prince she loved and went to Myrloch 
Vale with the great druid, her aunt Gen- 
na Moonsinger, who taught her more 
about being a druid and helped her 
learn to change shape as druids do and 
gain more spells. 

Then Hobarth, the priest of Bhaal, 
came to Corwell. He had two purposes, 
sent to him by Bhaal. One was to 
destroy the power of the druids in Gwy- 
nneth, the other was to capture Robyn, 
the druid who had slain Kazgaroth, and 
offer her up in sacrifice to Bhaal. 
Toward these purposes, he found a 
great and powerful artifact of power. 

When Tristan and Robyn slew 
Kazgaroth, one part of the beast sur 
vived, his heart, which turned into a 
black rock of great malignancy. This 
rock was found by Trahearn, a druid 
subverted to Kazgaroth, and it drove 
him mad. He tried to slay Robyn, but 
failed. Robyn, detecting the malignancy 
of the rock but not understanding its 
true evil, had her friend Newt fly the 
rock away and drop it in the forest. 
Hobarth was drawn to the heart and 
rescued it from the steadily growing 
circle of dead foliage around it. 

Using the heart, Hobarth went to the 
site of Tristan's first battle with the 
Northmen a year before, and raised up 
an army of undead from the mass 
graves there. He marched this army to 
the Moonwell, knowing that the druids, 
masters of nature magic, had no magic 
that would affect such unnatural crea 
tures. 

Robyn fought by her mentor's side in 
a number of holding actions. When the 
remaining druids formed their line for 
the last-ditch defense of the Moonwell, 
the center of their religion, Gertna gave 
Robyn a rune stick with spells of all the 
elements - to be used as needed. 
Robyn fought with her fellow druids 
until all was lost. But when the Goddess 
turned all her faithful druids into stone 
statues to save them from final degra 
dation, Robyn had been drawn away 
from the fight. Realizing she could do 
no more against the victorious Hobarth, 


Robyn shape-shifted and flew to the isle 
of Alaron, where Tristan was trying to 
stay alive against the efforts of the high 
king. 

The rune stick and her own magics 
and staff served them well in Alaron, 
and the rune stick incidentally helped 
Tristan fulfill all the requirements of 
the prophecy of Queen Allisynn. 

Together with their other allies, they 
managed to overcome the machina 
tions of the high king and Cyndre. 
When that menace was ended, a giant 
waterspout placed the crown of the 
high king at their feet, and Robyn care 
fully placed it on the head of her prince, 
now the high king of the Moonshaes. 

They then turned back to Gwynneth, 
where they had to defeat Hobarth, or 
the Goddess would be destroyed. 

Throughout this extended final bat 
tle, Robyn used her powers to help Tris 
tan and try to maintain the Goddess, 
but the opposition of the corrupted 
Genna Moonsinger made this virtually 
impossible. By the end of the struggle, 
Myrloch Vale was devastated, without a 
growing thing anywhere except in spe 
cially protected places such as Synno- 
ria. The Goddess' power on the 
Moonshae was virtually destroyed, and 
Robyn was the only surviving druid. 
Now she must somehow make a place 
for what is left of the Goddess to sur 
vive in the face of the new gods coming 
to the Moonshaes from the Sword 
Coast and beyond. 

Other notes: Robyn has two friends 
who have not yet been described. One 
is Newt, the fairy dragon, and the other 
is Yazilliclik, a wood sprite. Newt is the 
complete hedonist until confronted 
with a task that needs to be done to save 
his friends, then he digs in and does his 
best. The minute a threat is over, how 
ever, Newt is eager to begin another 
game or play a practical joke on Robyn 
or some woodland animal. 

As might be expected of so flighty a 
fairy dragon, Newt is a very young 
member of his race. His spell use is 
restricted to harmless illusions that do 
nothing but confuse a foe. He has no 
effect on reality. 


Yazilliclik came to Robyn's attention 
when he attempted to warn the druids 
of the undead invasion. The wood 
sprites are a timid folk, but he stayed to 
help the druids as best he could with his 
tiny bow and arrows, and then went 
with Robyn and Newt to Alaron to join 
Tristan. 

Though small, his abilities of flight 
and invisibility proved helpful on sev 
eral occasions, and his unfailing cour 
age when he or his friends were 
confronted by danger was an inspira 
tion to all who fought alongside him. 

Anyone meeting Robyn is likely to 
find her with an animal of some sort. 
This does not just mean domestic crea 
tures such as Canthus, but bears, swal 
lows, eagles, and any other woodland 
creature that might be in her vicinity. 
This affinity with wild creatures was 
one of the first signs of Robyn's bur 
geoning druidic powers. 

In a fight, Robyn stays away from 
edged weapons, preferring first a cud 
gel, and then the Staff of the White 
Well. Her spell use is usually con 
strained to spells that constrict and 
annoy, rather than kill. However, she is 
capable of killing in defense of herself 
or those she holds dear. 

As consort to the high king, Robyn 
makes it her particular duty to try to 
restore Myrloch Vale to its previous 
state. She is likely to find adventurers of 
similar inclination to seek out artifacts 
of the Goddess, where they may be held 
by firbolgs or other monsters, and 
restore them to the vale. 


46 


















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Shaw^RiL SbessaiR 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 (or by armor) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 6 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spellfire 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Spellfire 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Special 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
First-Level Human Thief 

Fifth-Level Spellfire Wielder 
S:ll 1:10 W:14 D:15 C:14 CH:9 

Shandril is a pretty, blonde-haired 
young woman of 17 winters. She tends 
to act on the advice of her heart and not 
her head, and is generally good- 
natured. She has an unshakable faith in 
the essential goodness of the world 
around her, although this does not 
mean that she is foolishly trusting of 
strangers. Far too many of the dark 
forces in the Realms would see her 
dead or enslaved for her to have that 
view, for she is the sole recipient of 
spellfire in this generation. 

Her father was Garthond, an appren 
tice to the mage Jhavanter. The two of 
them fought several times against the 
Cult of the Dragon in Sembia. Jhavanter 
held an old tower on the eastern flanks 
of the Thunder Peaks, which he called 
the Tower Tranquil. Garthond dwelt 
there with him until mages of the cult 
destroyed his master in battle. After 
ward, Garthond continued his studies 
and his feud with the cult. 

He grew in power, and survived many 
attempts on his life by the cult. In a dar 
ing raid upon a cult caravan, Garthond 
rescued the magic-user Dammasae 
from cult captivity - they had her 
drugged, bound, and gagged - in the 
caravan heading to one of their strong 
holds. 

Dammasae had adventured with Gor- 
stag and others before this. She was 
known for a natural power she had - a 
power she wanted to develop, by prac 
tice and experiment. Dammasae could 


absorb spells and use their force of art 
as raw energy held within her. She 
could use her power to heal, or to harm 
in the form of fiery blasts. The cult kid 
napped her to learn the secrets of 
spellfire, as it was called, for their own 
use, or at least to control her use of it to 
further their schemes. 

Garthond protected and worked 
magic with Dammasae . . . and they came 
to love each other. They traveled much, 
seeking adventure as many fools do, 
and pledged their troth before the altar 
of Mystra in Baldur's Gate. 

Unbeknown to Garthond, a cult 
mage, one Erimmator, cursed him in a 
battle of the art. This curse bound a 
strange creature called a balhiir, from 
another plane of existence, in symbiosis 
with Garthond to drain his magic. 

They dwelt quietly in Elturel, and 
Dammasae bore Garthond a daughter, 
Shandril Shessair. They did not return 
to the Tower Tranquil and the dales, for 
the cult waited in strength, and the dan 
ger to their child was great. They wait 
ed eight months until she was old 
enough to travel. 

They left Elturel with Gorstag, a bur 
ly fighter who favored the battle-ax. 
East they went, overland, and the cult 
was waiting for them. Somehow they 
saw through the disguises, probably by 
art. The cult attacked them at the 
Bridge of Fallen Man on the road west 
of Cormyr. Garthond was thrown down 
and utterly destroyed, but he won vic 
tory for his wife and daughter, and for 
Gorstag. He took nine cult mages and 
three swordsmen with him. Dammasae 
and Gorstag were wounded, and made 
for Shadowdale. Dammasae did not 
make it. She is buried on a little knoll on 
the north side of the road, the first one 
close to the road west of Toad Knoll, a 
place holy to Mystra. 

Gorstag took the babe Shandril and 
headed south toward Deepingdale. He 
intended to leave her with the elves and 
return to the Tower Tranquil for 
Garthond's writings and objects of mag 
ic which were Shandril's inheritance. 
The elves brought word to him that the 
cult had broken into the tower and 


blasted their way into the cellars below. 
Then they used the great caverns 
they'd created as a lair for the dracolich 
Rauglothgor the Proud, whose hoard 
had outgrown his own lair. 

Gorstag continued on to Deepingdale, 
where he used some gems from past 
adventures to buy an inn in Highmoon. 
Counting on his relative obscurity in 
the eyes of the cult, he raised Shandril 
as a servant there. He hid her lineage as 
long as he could. 

At the age of 16, she left the inn, hav 
ing secured for herself a position with 
the Company of the Bright Spear as a 
thief. By Tymora's will, they ran into a 
large party of the Cult of the Dragon on 
the banks of the Semberflow. The com 
pany was all but destroyed, and Shan 
dril taken captive. 

They held her in an old tomb, from 
which she escaped through magic hid 
den there. Unfortunately, she was tele 
ported into the devil-infested city of 
Myth Drannor where she was captured 
by The Shadowsil, arch-mage of the 
Cult of the Dragon. The Shadowsil saw 
an immediate value in the virgin blood 
of Shandril, a key ingredient in main 
taining the undead status of the cult's 
dracoliches. 

The apprentice magic-user Narm saw 
her kidnapping and enlisted the help of 
the Knights of Myth Drannor to rescue 
her. With the aid of the Knights, Elmin- 
ster, and Narm, she was rescued from 
the very jaws of the dracolich 
Rauglothgor. 

In the confusion, Narm and Shandril 
were trapped in a cave-in. The Shadow 
sil followed them, intent on making 
their deaths very slow. In desperation, 
Shandril stuck her on the head with a 
crystal, releasing a balhiir, a magic 
absorbing creature feared by all who 
practice the art, possibly even the very 
one that had ridden her father. In its 
presence, The Shadowsil's magic did 
not work, and they escaped. 

Meanwhile, the Knights and Elmin- 
ster were holding off the dracolich. 
When Shandril and Narm reappeared, 
the balhiir followed, foiling all of Elmin- 
ster's magic. To rid the party of the pes- 


47 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



ky balhiir, Elminster asked Shandril to 
try to absorb all of the energy of the 
balhiir. This awakened the dormant 
power of spellfire in her, inherited from 
her mother. Filled to the point of 
exploding, Shandril released the 
balhiir's energy as destructive bolts, 
destroying Rauglothgar, a large party of 
the cult, and most of the mountain on 
which they stood. 

Elminster quickly realized that this 
could not be only the work of the 
balhiir, and deduced that Shandril had 


the power of spellfire. He took them to 
Shadowdale, where he tested and 
refined her ability. Despite several 
attempts on their lives by the Zhen- 
tarim and the Cult of the Dragon, Narm 
and Shandril were married in Shadow- 
dale. 

Every mage in the Realms is vying to 
hold or destroy Shandril. Her spellfire 
power represents danger to all spell- 
casters, and a chance for incredible 
power. They seek to find a way to con 
trol her, maybe by holding and threat 


ening the life of Narm, or if that is not 
possible, to destroy her so that others 
cannot do the same. 

Shandril is unlikely to ever gain more 
levels as a thief. To do so, she would 
have to adventure without using the 
spellfire power, something she is not 
likely to do. As a wielder of spellfire, 
she has fifth-level ability, the highest 
ever known to be held. From this point 
on, she breaks new ground with 
spellfire. 

Balh))R 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 8 
MOVE: 0"/18" 

HIT DICE: 18 
Hit Points: Special 
% IN LAIR: 0 
TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: Nil 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Special 
INTELLIGENCE: Animal 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: M (6'-diameter cloud) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
LEVEL/X.P. VALUE: IX/15,000 

Normally seen as a man-sized, shape 
less, softly glowing cloud with diamond 
like sparks of light inside it, the balhiir 
can flow and ooze like any gaseous 
form, never having a distinct outline. It 
is constrained by solid objects and 
needs an aperture of at least 1" in diam 
eter to pass through. It has no manipu 
lative organs at all, and it not affected 
by weather or gusts of wind, even mov 
ing through water uninhibited. They 
are completley unaffected by physical 
weapons, which just pass through 
them. 

A native of the Negative Material 
Plane, the balhiir is rarely seen on the 
Prime Material Plane, as it takes very 
powerful magic to trap one and remove 
it from its native plane. It is not known 
if they are intelligent, though they 
appear to act on animal instincts rather 


48 
































































than reason. If they do possess intelli 
gence, their reasoning processes are so 
alien that few men could understand 
them. 

The balhiir seems to spend its entire 
existence in search of energy to feed on 
and support itself. On its native plane, it 
can absorb any kind of energy, includ 
ing experience levels or a being's life 
force. Some sages think they may be the 
natural predators of the xeg-yi. If on 
any other plane, it can only absorb raw 
magic. Since there is not much energy 
on the Negative Material Plane, the 
balhiir is very efficient in its use of 
energy. It can remain active for months 
without feeding. For periods longer 
than that, it enters a state of hiberna 
tion which can last indefinitely. Only 
the presence of life or magical energy 
will awaken it, which takes a full turn. 

This strange creature can sense life 
forms and magical energy up to 10" 
away, even through solid rock. It 
always moves toward the greatest con 
centration of magic near it. Once in con 
tact with the source of magic, it absorbs 
spell energy using the spellfire rules 
(see below) as if it had a constitution of 
18. However, it does not use the energy 
like a spellfire wielder. Instead, one 
spell level will sustain an active balhiir 
for one day. It does not suffer damage 
from holding more than five times its 
constitution, but does shed those extra 
spell levels as radiant energy (light and 
heat) at the rates specified. 

It can only "attack" once per round to 
actively drain magic. However, it can 
passively drain magic from many 
sources at once. Any spell or magical 
effect that is active within 10' of it is 
absorbed. For example, a mage fires a 
magic missile at an opponent. If a 
balhiir is within 10' of the path of the 
missile, it is absorbed into the creature. 
However, a wand lying more than 10' 
from the balhiir is safe, unless the 
balhiir "attacks" it. 

There are only two known ways to 
destroy a balhiir. Its spell absorbing 
energy must be overloaded, just like the 
spellfire ability. This usually takes sev 
eral mages of high level casting spells 


simultaneously at it. The other way is 
related to a strange ritual discovered by 
a long dead arch-mage. She found a 
way to bind the balhiir to an object or 
creature. Once bound, the balhiir can 
only be bound again by the creature 
that freed it. Its rescuer must either 
repeat the ritual to bind it to another 
object or creature, or can attempt to 
bind it to his or her own body by sheer 
force of willpower. This requires a save 
vs. death (since that is the price of fail 
ure). The total spell levels held by the 
balhiir is divided by the character's 
Constitution (round up), similar to the 
spellfire danger rating. A -1 is applied 
to the roll for each rating above 5. 
Therefore a 7 (after dividing spell levels 
by CON) means a -2 on the save. Until 
the creature's spell levels are used up, 
that character can use spellfire. Once 
used, the balhiir is destroyed and the 
character must make a system shock 
roll or die. 

Spellfine 

No sage in the Realms, not even 
Elminster, knows the origins or com 
plete powers and limitations of 
spellfire. What is set down in this 
record, is what they do know. 

Spellfire is the ability to absorb raw, 
chaotic, magical energy. Magic is 
thought to be the control, shaping and 
transferring energy from the Positive 
Material Plane on the Prime Material 
Plane. Spellfire collects the energy from 
almost any source and stores it in the 
person's body. At will, the person can 
release this energy in a variety of 
forms. If no control is attempted, it is 
released as raw chaotic energy of tre 
mendously destructive potential. 

The amount of spellfire a person can 
handle is determined by the person's 
Constitution. Spellfire is measured in 
spell levels, since that is the form of 
energy most likely to be absorbed. In 
the case of magic items, some transla 
tions can be made. Each plus of a weap 
on is one spell level. Each special ability 
is one spell level, unless the DM judges 
it to be of unusual potency, in which 


case the DM can raise that value. Dor 
mant charges in wands, rods, and 
staves each represent one spell level, 
even if the spell being cast is of a higher 
level. If the effect of the wand is used on 
the wielder of spellfire, then use the 
level of the spell effect. Even dragon 
breath can be absorbed as one spell 
level per hit die. 

The maximum spell levels that can be 
stored in the body is the Constitution 
score times 10. So Shandril can hold 140 
spell levels worth of spellfire energy. 
However, the wielder takes risks any 
time the amount of spellfire energy 
goes over five times his or her Constitu 
tion score. 

Up to 5 x constitution: Completely 
safe, with no side effects. 

lip to 6 x constitution: The wielder 
can feel the energy inside him or her. 
The wielder's eyes begin to glow. A 
touch by any creature or static magic 
device or spell effect causes ld6 spell 
levels to be released at it. Every 24 
hours, a Constitution check must be 
made; failure results in the wielder suf 
fering ld6 hit points of damage, which 
release 1 spell level of spellfire. 

Up to 7 x constitution: The wielder's 
skin tingles, the eyes glow brightly. A 
touch causes 2d6 spell levels to be 
released. Every hour, a Constitution 
check must be made; failure results in 
the wielder suffering ld6 hit points of 
damage, which release 1 spell level of 
spellfire. 

Up to 8 x constitution: The wielder's 
skin has a slight glow, the eyes shine 
brightly enough to be seen at a distance 
in bright sunlight. The wielder can feel 
a destructive burning inside. A touch 
causes 3d6 spell levels to be released. 
Every turn a Constitution check must 
be made; failure results in the wielder 
suffering ld6 hit points of damage, 
which release 1 spell level of spellfire. 

Up to 9 x constitution: The wielder's 
entire body glows, the eyes are like 
torch lamps. The wielder is in pain, and 
must save vs. paralyzation to perform 
any action except randomly releasing 
great quantities of spellfire. A touch 
causes 4d6 spell levels to be released. 


49 










































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Every round a Constitution check must 
be made; failure results in the wielder 
suffering ld6 hit points of damage, 
which release 1 spell level of spellfire. 

Up to 10 x constitution: The wield- 
er's body glows brightly and radiates 
heat from up to 3' away. The pain is 
great enough that a save vs. paralyza- 
tion at -2 is needed to perform any 
action. Every segment a Constitution 
check must be made; failure results in 
the wielder suffering ld6 hit points of 
damage, which release 1 spell level of 
spellfire. 

The wielder of spellfire can release 
up to his or her Constitution in spell 
levels. Shandril can release 14 spell 
levels of spellfire per round. Spellfire 
effects that would use less than a spell 
level (for example, lighting Elminster's 
pipe) are rounded up to a full spell level. 
Each spell level contains enough energy 
to do ld6 points of damage when 
directed as destructive blasts. The 
recipient does get to save vs. spells to 
take only half damage. When used for 
healing, each spell level heals 2 hit 
points. 

Control over spellfire comes with 
experience, just like for other character 
classes. For the purposes of game play, 
the wielder of spellfire becomes a split- 
class character. Actions using the origi 
nal character class abilities accumulate 
experience points for that class; adven 
turing using spellfire accumulates expe 
rience points for its control. Experience 
points for treasure cannot add to 
spellfire ability. The spellfire levels only 
determine control over that ability. 
They do not affect a character's hit 
points, to hit with weapons, saving 
throws or any other game function. 

Use the magic-user experience point 
table to determine level of spellfire abil 
ity. Below is the table showing how 
much control the character has for 
each level. 

First Level 

The character is only able to use 
destructive blasts and cannot control 
the amount of spellfire very well. Add 
ld4 -2 to the number of spell levels the 


character wants to hurl; the minimum 
is one level, the maximum his total Con 
stitution points expressed as levels. 
Only one bolt per round is allowed, and 
it must be hurled in a straight line. Any 
magic item touched is absorbed, wheth 
er or not the wielder wishes it to be. 

Second Level 

The character can control how many 
spell levels of spellfire he or she is hurl 
ing as destructive bolts. The bolt can be 
bent every which way if desired. Other 
wise, it is the same as the first-level abil 
ity. Magic items are only absorbed 
when using spellfire or when the 
spellfire wielder wills it. 

Third Level 

Two blasts per round, one from each 
hand, can be hurled, or one a round can 
be emitted from any other part of the 
body. Even with multiple blasts, the 
maximum number of spell levels of 
spellfire a character can discharge in a 
round is equal to the player's Constitu 
tion. The character can react with 
spellfire, although with only one blast 
that round, within five segments, 
minus the dexterity reaction adjust 
ment. For example, a character with a 
dexterity of 17 has a +2 reaction 
adjustment and can react with spellfire 
in just 3 segments. 

Fourth Level 

Effects using less than one spell level 
are possible, although a full spell level is 
still deducted from the total. For exam 
ple, lighting a candle takes less than one 
spell level. 

Fifth Level 

The spellfire wielder now has enough 
control to heal another person if he or 
she is in flesh-to-flesh contact. Up to 
three blasts can be delivered per round, 
one from each hand and one from the 
eyes. The total spell levels used in a 
given round is still limited by the char 
acter's Constitution. 

Any further levels of ability or refine 
ments of power are not known at the 
time of this writing. No spellfire wielder 
has ever shown abilities other than 


these to any spectator who survived. 

Spellfire is always limited by line of 
sight (at least until the obstruction is 
destroyed), but not by distance. A to-hit 
roll is needed to strike anything more 
than 1" away that is taking defensive 
action. Immobile objects are automati 
cally hit. 

Enchanted creatures, or those that 
were created or sustained by magic, do 
not get a saving throw against spellfire. 
These creatures must always take full 
damage. Undead that drain life energy 
(or any Negative Material Plane crea 
ture) save at +2, unless, like the lich, 
they are created by or sustained with 
magic. 

Certain spells, magic items and spell 
like effects are immune to spellfire. The 
exact reasons for this is not known, but 
there is conjecture. Anything that 
absorbs magical energy without storing 
it would also absorb spellfire. It would 
also be immune to absorption by 
spellfire. Known examples: Ring of spell 
turning, rod of cancellation, wand of 
negation (if the beam hits the spellfire), 
sphere of annihilation, dispel magic (if 
cast in the same segment as spellfire is 
used). 

Items or spells that store magical or 
life energy for future use, will absorb 
spellfire, but can also be absorbed by 
the spellfire wielder, as the energy is 
still available. Known examples: Ring of 
spell storing, certain ioun stones. 

Similarly, spells or items that create 
barriers to all magic are immune to 
destruction by spellfire. However, they 
can be absorbed. Known examples: 
Scroll of protection from magic, wall of 
force, anti-magic shell. 


50 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


NaR(T) T ACnAIZA)Th 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 9 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Third-Level Human Magic-User 
S:10 1:16 W:12 D:14 C:13 CH:11 

Narm is young man of 22 winters, 
handsome even in drab clothing. He is 
dark-haired and slim, with a serious 
face. His dark brown eyes reveal a 
lighter side not visible on his face. At 
times they can twinkle merrily as if 
sharing a secret joke. Due to his tute 
lage under Elminster, he is calm under 
fire. However, any threat to his beloved 
wife Shandril will bring forth a fiery 
passion. 

He was born in the city of Silvery- 
moon in the North, of Hargun Tama- 
raith, called "The Tall," and Fythuera. 
He never learned his mother's last 
name. Narm suspects that his father 
was a ranger, before he fell ill with the 
shaking fever. Hargun dealt in weapons 
and smith work. Fyth, to her husband 
and child, played the harp and traded 
as Hargun's equal. They had been wed 
for some time before Narm's birth. He 
remembers them as good people. 
Elminster suspects that they may have 
been members of the mysterious group 
known only as the Harpers. 

While Narm was still a babe, his par 
ents journeyed to Triboar and thence to 
Waterdeep. They traveled a great deal, 
up and down the northern Sword 
Coast, moving with the trade. They are 
dead now. While in Baldur's Gate, they 
became the innocent victims of a wiz 
ards duel. 

On the river bank, Algarzel Halfcloak 
and the Calishite arch-mage Kluennh 
Tzarr strove by art to destroy one 


another. Algarzel was in flight over the 
river when Kluennh Tzarr flung a fire 
ball at him. Algarzel flew out of the way, 
but a ferry making the river crossing 
could not. Nearly all on board, includ 
ing Hargun and Fyth, were killed. 
Hargun's last action in life was to fling 
his 11-year-old son into the river. Those 
watching the duel pulled him out of the 
water and took him ashore, but then 
left him to find his own way in the city. 

In the years that followed, Narm 
learned all he could of the mages that 
dueled and killed his parents. He deter 
mined their names and native lands. 
Algarzel has not been seen since that 
duel. Narm has heard conflicting 
reports that he died in the duel, and 
that he escaped to another plane, never 
to return. 

Kluennh Tzarr left for his Calishite 
citadel in triumph. Narm's informants 
say that he is served by dragons and 
keeps many slaves. Narm has vowed to 
be his death some day, or if another gets 
their first, to spit upon his grave. 

Even at the tender age of 11, he knew 
he would need powerful magic to 
defeat the foreign arch-mage. Just 
another homeless urchin, in a city 
where there are dozens like him on eve 
ry street, Narm set out to gain an 
apprenticeship with a mage, any mage. 
Pestering every mage who passed near 
ly got him turned into a toad or burnt to 
ashes several times. 

Finally, at when Narm was 13, a mage 
said yes. Mirimmar turned out to be a 
pompous, sour man. His overwhelming 
pride made him weak. He never 
worked to strengthen his art where he 
lacked spells or technique. He couldn't, 
or wouldn't, see his weaknesses. None 
theless, knowing nothing, Narm was 
able to learn a lot from him. Mirimmar 
had a temper and little patience. He was 
one of the laziest men Narm had ever 
met, so he needed an apprentice to do 
all the drudge work. From this Narm 
learned much of spell components and 
their preparation. 

Mirimmar disliked conflict, so he nev 
er fought other mages to gain their 
spells. He was shining proud that no 


mage had ever challenged him. Those 
of real power saw him as a posturing 
know-nothing, with no spells worth 
seizing. Those of lesser power feared 
always that he must have something up 
his sleeve, he seemed so confident and 
fearless. His confidence killed him, and 
nearly took Narm as well. 

He saw the abandonment of the Elven 
Court and Myth Drannor as his chance 
to become a great mage. He was going 
to walk right in and seize all the magic 
that he, and many others, thought was 
just lying around in the ruins. A perfect 
solution for a lazy wizard. 

On the long journey to Myth Drannor, 
the pair stopped at the Rising Moon in 
in Deepingdale. Narm caught the eye of 
Shandril, a servant then, whom he 
thought quite pretty. Unable to escape 
from the weary lectures of his master 
Mirimmar, nothing else came of it. 

Deep in the woods of the Elven Court, 
just outside of Myth Drannor, the hap 
less duo stumbled into a pair of elves. 
Representatives of the Knights of Myth 
Drannor, they were keeping out all 
intruders and warning innocent trav 
elers that the city was infested with 
devils. Mirimmar assumed that they 
were lying to protect their own inter 
ests and doubled back with Narm to 
approach the ruins from another angle. 
This was no sooner done then they 
were set upon by bone devils that 
instantly slew Mirimmar. 

While toying with Narm for the sport 
of it, the bone devils attracted the atten 
tion of a pair of the Knights of Myth 
Drannor, Lanseril and Illistyl. They res 
cued him and brought him to Shadow- 
dale to heal. 

Nightmares of taunting devils drove 
Narm to seek Myth Drannor once again 
on his own. He hoped to be able to con 
front his fears so he could lead a normal 
life without looking over his shoulder 
for non-existent devils. Narm watched 
as The Shadows!! took Shandril captive. 
Recalling her from the inn, he quickly 
convinced the Knights of Myth Dran 
nor that she needed rescuing. 

A group of the Knights, Elminster, 
and Narm invaded the dracolich 


51 















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



Rauglothgar's cavern home. In the 
ensuing battle, Narm and Shandril 
were trapped behind fallen rubble for 
quite some time. Human nature being 
what it is, they emerged quite smitten 
with each other. 

It was at this time that spellfire was 
awakened in Shandril. Narm had to 
watch, a helpless spectator, as Shandril 
fought Rauglothgar and a horde of 
dragon cultists, slaying them all. 

After the defeat of Rauglothgar and 


the Cult of the Dragon under the lower 
Tranquil, Narm and Shandril journeyed 
to Shadowdale with Elminster and the 
Knights of Myth Drannor. There Elmin 
ster personally saw to their education 
in the use of spells and spellfire. Narm 
did not so much learn to cast new spells 
from Elminster, as how to learn the art. 
The old sage taught him to discipline 
himself for both the learning and cast 
ing of spells. 

Narm and Shandril were married in 


Shadowdale. Their honeymoon was 
short but sweet. The two decided to 
leave the peaceful community to seek 
safety through anonymity in the 
Realms. While in Shadowdale, too 
many outside factions tried to capture 
or kill them, not the least of which was 
the Cult of the Dragon. They could not 
endanger their friends by remaining in 
the dale any longer. 

They decided to travel to the faraway 
city of Silverymoon where none would 
know them. The couple accepted the 
protection of the Harpers, through 
their agent Storm Silverhand, for the 
journey. Shandril wanted to pass 
through Highmoon to say goodbye to 
Gorstag and her other friends at the 
Rising Moon inn. After a series of 
adventures, they found themselves on 
the way to Cormyr with Delg, a dwarf 
ish warrior and former companion of 
Shandril's. From there they passed 
from knowledge of most of the groups 
seeking to control Shandril and her 
spellfire ability. 

Narm does not have any single place 
he considers to be home. At best, 
Baldur's Gate would be the most famil 
iar city to him, seeing as he spent over 
10 years there as a youth. However, 
there is nothing in the city for him now. 
His master Mirimmar is dead. All of that 
mage's possessions were either sold to 
make the journey to Myth Drannor, or 
disappeared when he was killed there. 

Narm and Shandril are always met 
together, unless someone or something 
has forced them apart. Occasionally 
they are found in the company of pow 
erful friends, such as Elminster or the 
Knights of Myth Drannor. They will 
work together as a team to overcome 
any obstacle that might stand in their 
way. Each would do anything to safe 
guard the other. Standing practice for 
the two is to have Narm keep Shandril 
safely filled with spellfire energy by 
casting spells at her every few days, or 
as needed. 

At this point in his career, Narm does 
not carry any magic items, and only has 
a dagger for defense. Shandril would 
merely absorb magic items, and he was 
never trained to use warrior's gear. 


52 





























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


Wulfg ar 

ARMOR CLASS: 5 
MOVE: 15" 

Hit Points: 74 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
(+7) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: M (6'H") 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Barbarian Fighter 
S:19( +3 +7) 1:15 W:14 D:16 C:18 CH:15 

Wulfgar, son of Beornegar, has been 
blessed with the raw potential to 
become the complete hero. Agile and 
tough, and possessing strength beyond 
the range of normal men - to match his 
great size. Nearly 7' tall and fully 350 
pounds - Wulfgar has packed more 
experience into his young 18 years than 
most fighters see in their entire 
careers. 

He has experienced the best of both 
schools of fighting. Growing up on the 
tundra among the barbarians of Ice- 
wind Dale taught him ferocity in battle, 
an offensive style designed to simply 
blast through whatever defenses his 
opponents presented. And then he 
learned the more subtle skills of true 
swordsmanship under the tutelage of 
Drizzt Do'Urden. Drizzt was rough on 
the young warrior, slapping Wulfgar 
down with the flat of his weapons and 
showing him with yet another sting 
every weakness in his fighting style. 
And to the young Wulfgar, whose intel 
ligence was sufficient to overcome the 
anger of his wounded pride, the lessons 
were effective. 

"By the middle of the second week, 
Wulfgar was in complete control of (his 
war hammer), twisting its handle and 
head deftly to block against the two 
whirring scimitars, and responding 
with cautiously measured thrusts of his 
own. Drizzt could see the subtle change 
taking place as the barbarian stopped 


reacting after the fact to the scimitars' 
deft cuts and thrusts and began recog 
nizing his own vulnerable areas and 
anticipating the next attack. 

"The drow knew that his style of 
offense would not be the most effective 
mode for Wulfgar The barbarian could 
use his unrivalled strength more effec 
tively than deceptive feints and twists. 
Wulfgar's people were naturally aggres 
sive fighters, and striking came more 
easily to them than parrying. The 
mighty barbarian could fell a giant with 
a single, well-placed blow. 

"All that he had to learn was 
patience." 

- from The Crystal Shard 

Wulfgar was quick to see the advan 
tages of the drow's lessons and in the 
short span of their training, he became 
a multidimensional warrior. 

In battle, he wears no armor, but his 
heavy layers of wolf-skin furs serve as 
well as studded leather (AC 7). He can 
take a hit, even from a giant, and with 
his awesome strength, his opponents 
usually don't last long enough for a sec 
ond strike. And if he were not powerful 
enough on his own, he wields Aegis- 
fang, possibly the mightiest weapon to 
be forged in the modern day Realms, a 
throwback to the times when the great 
est dwarven smithies crafted weapons 
for the gods themselves. An offspring 
of the Hammer of Thunderbolts, 
Bruenor crafted Aegis-fang especially 
for Wulfgar. So wonderful was the 
result, an effort of the dwarfs consider 
able skill and his deep love for the boy, 
that Bruenor knew he had reached the 
ultimate achievement of his trade, and 
would never again fire up a forge. 

The war hammer is fully +5 and 
scores double-damage dice (2d4 + 2, 
2d4) on a hit, gaining full "to hit" and 
damage bonuses, including Wulfgar's 
Strength bonus, even when thrown! 
Furthermore, Aegis-fang unerringly 
reappears in Wulfgar's hand (and only 
in Wulfgar's hand) whenever he desires 
it, even if it has to disappear from some 
one else's hand to get there. 

The war hammer's magic and power 


are tuned perfectly to Wulfgar alone, 
designed especially to match his great 
size and strength. In the hands of 
another, Aegis-fang is only +3, loses its 
special throwing bonuses, and does not 
score double-damage dice. 

A powerful weapon still, but devas 
tating in the hands of the young barbar 
ian. 

But there is much more to this man 
than physical prowess. Intelligent and 
observant, Wulfgar has learned to think 
before he speaks or acts, measuring 
each action against its probable conse 
quences. Unlike his brutal kin, he is 
introspective, searching his own heart 
and conscience for the true values of 
the world. In this, too, Wulfgar looks to 
Drizzt as his guiding force. 

"Wulfgar sat a moment longer in com- 
templation. The drow lived a hard and 
materially empty existence, yet he was 
richer than any man Wulfgar had ever 
known. Drizzt had clung to his princi 
ples against overwhelming circum 
stances, leaving the familiar world of 
his own people by choice to remain in a 
world where he would never be accept 
ed or appreciated. 

"He looked at the departing elf, now a 
mere shadow in the gloom. 'Perhaps we 
two are not so different,' he mumbled 
under his breath." 

- from Tire Crystal Shard 

A wide world lays open to Wulfgar 
now, and he is determined to see it. 
From the spirited Catti-brie he has 
viewed, for the first time, the true 
worth of a woman, and from Bruenor 
and Drizzt he learned to see his ene 
mies as people, as individuals whose 
lives extend beyond the immediacy of 
the battlefield. 

And Wulfgar understands that there 
is much more for him to learn, and that 
each new experience brings him closer 
to finding the truth about himself, and 
the meaning of his life. 

These revelations would be extraor 
dinary to a person from the everyday 
civilized world in the Forgotten Realms, 
but to a youth bred amidst the savagery 


53 
















































MAJOR CHARACTERS 



w ¦ 






of the tundra barbarians, they are even 
more incredible. 

Wulfgar was born the son of Beorne- 
gar into the Tribe of the Elk, one of the 
most powerful tribes which followed 
the caribou migration along the length 
of Icewind Dale. Living on a thin edge of 
subsistence, they were a warlike peo 
ple, and so totally male-dominated that 
many of the women didn't even have 
names. 

Wulfgar's father was in high standing 
among the tribe, a personal advisor to 


the great and cruel King Heafstaag, a 
battle-scarred veteran of incredible 
strength. Yet the young Wulfgar sensed 
that his father, though obedient to his 
rank and position, did not care for the 
king. Beornegar was a dreamer and 
stubbornly believed that there must be 
a better way for his people to live. 
When Wulfgar was still a boy, Beorne 
gar went off on a quest that could bring 
him the power and the wealth to find a 
new road for his people. 

But he never returned. 


Still, the young Wulfgar fared well. 

Tall and straight, he was well-suited 
for a society strictly structured in a 
pecking order according to strength. By 
the time he had reached adolescence, 
he had achieved the honorable position 
of Heafstaag's standard bearer, and 
many looking upon him - he was 
already larger than most of the men - 
envisioned him as a future leader of 
their people. 

Then came the first great battle of 
Icewind Dale, when all the barbarian 
tribes united and invaded Ten-Towns. 
In the fierce battle of Bryn Shander, 
Wulfgar was cut down by the dwarf, 
Bruenor. But he was not killed, and 
when the battle had ended - and the 
barbarians had been routed - Bruenor 
found the boy and, seeing some special 
glimmer in his eye that did not reflect 
the normal savagery of a barbarian, 
spared his life, in exchange for five 
years of servitude in the dwarven 
mines. 

It was the turning point in his life, the 
one act that allowed the young man to 
fully find the road to his potential. Here, 
he met Catti-brie and saw the new 
dimensions of a woman. Here, he met 
Drizzt Do'Urden and found a hero for 
those principles so long sublimated 
under the limitations of his savage 
tribe. And here, he came to know 
Bruenor, so ferocious with his deadly 
ax, yet preferring the harmony of 
peaceful coexistence. 

"The work paid dividends physically 
as well. Chopping stone and pounding 
metal had corded the barbarians mus 
cles, redefining the gangly frame of his 
youth into a hardened girth of unri 
valled strength. And he possessed great 
stamina, for the tempo of the tireless 
dwarves had strengthened his heart 
and stretched his lungs to new limits. 

"Wulfgar bit his lip in shame as he 
remembered his first conscious 
thought after the Battle of Bryn Shan 
der He had vowed to pay Bruenor back 
in blood as soon as he had fulfilled the 
terms of his indenture. He understood 
now, to his own amazement, that he 
had become a better man under the 


54 

























































MAJOR CHARACTERS 


tutelage of Bruenor Battlehammer, and 
the mere thought of raising a weapon 
against the dwarf sickened him." 

- from The Crystal Shard 

It was indeed the true Wulfgar who 
emerged from those years of servitude. 
He understood the visions of his father 
for the first time in his life, and even ful 
filled Beornegar's unfinished quest, the 
slaying of the dragon, Icingdeath. 

Then he returned to his people, the 
dragon's horns a trophy sufficient to 
allow him to challenge for the throne. 
And when he had killed Heafstaag, he 
laid a new road for the barbarians of 
Icewind Dale, even rallying them 
behind the people of Ten-Towns against 
the invading goblin army of the evil 
Akar Kessell, and then forging a new 
alliance on the tundra, in which all the 
people of Icewind Dale, barbarian and 
Ten-Towner alike, united against their 
common foe, the ever-encroaching wil 
derness of the savage frontier. 

But after the dust of the battle had 
settled, and the new alliance forged, 
Wulfgar abdicated his new position as 
barbarian king, giving over the throne 
to an old friend of his father's, a man of 
similar conscience. Wulfgar would 
have made a great king, even at that 
tender age, but his heart was for the 
road. He wanted to learn, to grow, to 
see everything that his existence in Ice 
wind Dale had denied him. And so he 
took up with Drizzt and Bruenor, and 
later was joined by Regis, on their road 
south in search of Mithril Hall. 

Not without reservations, for he left 
behind the one thing in the dale that 
still intrigued him, and always would - 
Catti-brie. 

But he had a destiny to fulfill, out 


there, on the open road and in the wide 
world. Catti-brie understood it even 
better than he, and did not bid him to 
stay. 

By the fates, he would return to her 
when his journey had ended. 

On the BaRbaRUNS 

There is a special connotation accom 
panying the word "barbarian" that 
strikes a chord of terror across all the 
Realms. Barbarian raids are normally 
more devastating than ore attack, and 
just as savage. Trained soldiers, vet 
erans of a hundred fights, quiver at the 
approach of a barbarian horde. 

And yet, physically, a barbarian is a 
fighter plain and simple, no more train 
ed (even less, formally) and no more 
skilled, and typically wielding inferior 
weapons and armor. So why does the 
sweat bead on the foreheads of the 
fighters of the civilized world at the 
mere mention of the word "barbarian?" 

Because the mind-set of a barbarian 
transcends the boundaries of a normal 
fighter. Fanatical servants of Tempus, 
or some other god of battle, barbarians 
honestly do not fear death in battle, 
believing it a service to their god that 
will ensure them a place of honor in the 
land of their final reward. 

And in most cases, the barbarian has 
little to lose. Barbarian life, except for 
short stretches of plunder, is materially 
barren and knows no comforts. They 
are a people existing with one aspira 
tion: glory in battle. 

Furthermore, the hard existence of a 
tribesmen weeds out the weakest early 
in their lives. Typically, a barbarian 
fighter will have gained more experi 
ence by the time of his 20th birthday 


than most fighters will ever know. And 
someone facing one of these warriors 
in battle understands that he is fighting 
a survivor of that brutal existence, one 
of the strong members of the tribe who 
has never known deterred from the 
strict codes of discipline that rule bar 
barian life and determine their surviv 
al. Many a soldier has cursed the meals 
that softened his belly and slowed his 
sword arm in the last breaths of his life 
before the club or war hammer of a 
hardened barbarian crushed him. 

RolepLay^g Tips 

While Wulfgar has widened his vision 
of the world to include the principles 
and conscience not common among his 
people, he is still young, and still bound 
by a code of honor and pride. Insults 
may get offenders killed, honorably, of 
course, though in most cases, Wulfgar 
would temper his rage enough to 
accept an apology. 

He is a champion of the underdog, a 
fearless fighter, and a loyal friend. His 
vein of sympathy runs deep, and he will 
try to relieve suffering wherever he 
finds it, at any personal cost. 

On a large scale, he is a charismatic 
and dominating young man (remember 
he altered the very way of life for the 
peoples of Icewind Dale), but in one-to- 
one encounters, Wulfgar remains a bit 
unsure of himself and is easily embar 
rassed, which sometimes leads him to 
anger - bridled rage, but rage nonethe 
less. 

But he is young, and in his drive to 
find his truest self, he will learn. He will 
grow wiser and stronger. 

A chilling thought for would-be ene 
mies! 


55 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


AIusTRiei 

ARMOR CLASS: -2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 44 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: M (5'11") 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
22nd-Level Human Magic User 
S:ll 1:18 W:17 D:16 C:13 CH:17 

Tall and slender, and bending with the 
grace of a willow in the spring breeze, 
Alustriel, the high lady of Silverymoon, 
might be the most impressive and beau 
tiful leader in all the Northland. Men 
have been known to fall in love with her 
in a single glance, bards won't write 
about her for fear that their words, 
however sweet, would not do her jus 
tice. 

It is more than Alustriel's physical 
beauty that awes them all. In truth, she 
is beautiful, silver-haired and ever- 
young, and with a glowing face and 
eyes that sparkle like the sun dances on 
the a clear river, but there are so many 
more dimensions to this woman. Keen 
ly bright and wise, she is one of the 
most powerful wizards in all the For 
gotten Realms, though she rarely dis 
plays her powers openly. She rules 
Silverymoon, the largest city in the 
realms north of Waterdeep and isn't 
anyone's puppet or figurehead, to be 
sure - none would make that mistaken 
assumption more than once! 

Her reign is legitimate, her power 
well- earned, and her judgment fair and 
consistent. She is a peacemaker to the 
end, seeking a harmony of the goodly 
races so that they may fully dominate 
the wild lands of the North. Her magical 
restraint is legendary, using her spells 
only for personal reasons such as tele 
porting to her favorite grove on a 
moonlit night, and even then humbly 
and without show. 


She might use her spells to enhance 
the atmosphere at an important meet 
ing by creating Mordenkainen's magnif 
icent mansion, or even to avoid an 
embarrassing situation by teleporting 
in someone who would have arrived 
late. But never would Alustriel use her 
magic to gain an unfair advantage in a 
diplomatic situation. 

Her favorite spell is shape change, 
and she views it as an educational expe 
rience in seeing the world from many 
different perspectives. She also likes 
non-destructive evocations such as 
material, spells of learning such as leg 
end lore, and locomotion spells like tele 
port without error and, another 
favorite, fly. Her day-to-day spells will 
typically reflect a blend of these types, 
and rarely, if ever, contain an offensive 
spell, reflecting Alustriel's belief that 
she has enough magic-user bodyguards 
hovering about her to protect her. 
(Though, in truth, she uses her tele 
ports and the like primarily to get away 
from those very same bodyguards.) 

Most of the magical items that she has 
acquired, and the few she has fabri 
cated, she has given away, figuring that 
others could use them more than she. 
She does retain bracers of defense AC 2 
(in the form of golden bracelets), a ring 
of protection +2, a wand of illumina 
tion, an amulet of proof against detec 
tion and location, and a cloak and boots 
of elvenkind. 

She is indeed an impressive lady, and 
was born into a family of impressive 
women. Her sisters include The Simbul 
of Aglarond; Storm Silverhand, a bard 
of high renown; Dove Falconhand, an 
equally impressive ranger; and Sylune, 
the witch of Shadowdale, who was 
killed in the Year of the Worm when she 
broke her staff of the magi in a retribu 
tive strike against an ancient huge red 
dragon. (The dragon was killed as well.) 

Certainly Alustriel, the second-born 
of the group, stands tall in their midst, 
taking a back seat to none of them. 
From her earliest days, she was a vision 
ary, seeing the world in her own image 
of utopia. With her intelligence and 
empathetic prowess, it didn't take her 


long to understand how to create this 
vision of beauty around her. 

She began adventuring at an early 
age, perfecting her art as a wizard. Her 
masters marvelled at her incredible 
pace. Soon she was beyond them, 
understanding the very fabric of spells 
and able to conjure the magical powers 
for all of her needs. While most wizards 
bend the powers to gain their ends, 
Alustriel seemed more to work as an 
extension of the forces, as though she 
had formed a symbiotic relationship 
with the natural forces of the universe. 

And as she began her adventuring 
career early, Alustriel ended it early, 
determined to carve out a settled piece 
of utopia in the savage wilderness. Now 
Silverymoon, a city of 26,000, reflects 
her vision. Here the pen truly is mighti 
er than the sword, here the sculptor's 
hammer outweighs the war hammer, 
and spells of creation are valued above 
those of destruction. All who come in 
puruit of knowledge and the arts are 
welcomed, and it is not uncommon to 
see an elf and a dwarf walking side by 
side discussing things far removed 
from conflict. 

And in the savage North, only a wom 
an as gentle, kindly, and inspiring as 
Alustriel could hold this dream togeth 
er. 

Roleplaying tips: Unlike Pier- 
geiron, who took a different road to a 
similar end, Alustriel seems not at all 
reserved around friends or strangers. 
She is open and unsuspicious (for, in 
light of the tenets of her city, to be any 
thing else would make her a hypocrite) 
and willing, and wanting, to forgive 
most indiscretions. 

But Alustriel is also a legislator and, 
when necessary, a shrewd bargainer. 
The responsibility of thousands falls 
squarely upon her shoulders, and 
though she accepts the burden, and is 
more than able to execute the office, 
her spirit seems more that of a child, 
running free without worry through 
grassy fields. 

But the promise of Silverymoon is more 
than ample reward for the labors of her 
duties, and she has no complaints - 


56 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Except on those very rare occasions 
when she is forced to go against every 
thing she believes, such as the time she 
had to refuse a drow elf entry into 
Silverymoon because of the political 
implications. Her lament was quite evi 
dent in her apology to that drow, Drizzt 
Do'Urden, and it could be that she was 
speaking more to her own conscience 
than to Drizzt when she said: 

"All that I ask you to understand is 
that, as leader of my city, I am forced at 
times to act for the overall good, what 
ever the cost to an individual." 

- Alustriel 

from Streams of Silver 

Alzeguhjd the TizAdeiz 

ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 50 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
lOth-Level Human Magic-User 
S:12 1:16 W:15 D:15 C:17 CH:13 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Affect normal fires, 
burning hands, detect magic, melt. 

• Second-level - ESP, flaming 
sphere. 

• Third-level - Fireball, flame 
arrow. 

• Fourth-level - Fire charm, fire 
shield, fire trap. 

• Fifth-level - Conjure fire elemen 
tal. 

Physical description: Alzegund is a 
human male Red Wizard of Thay; he is an 
old, bald, war-scarred necromancer who 
openly wears robes marked on the breast 
and back with a red flame badge, and 
travels the trade routes with six grim 
men-at-arms, guarding those caravans 
the Red Wizards want kept safe. 

Equipment: Alzegund has a magical 


bag of tricks and a wand of lightning. 
He also has bracers of AC6, and his 
robes are actually a cloak of protection 
+1. If forced to fight hand-to-hand, he 
fights with a dagger filigreed with sil 
ver. 

Personality: Alzegund is a member 
of the School of Evocation, and special 
izes in fire magics. Because he does so 
much traveling and guarding, he has 
not climbed as high in his profession as 
his age would indicate, but he seems to 
enjoy his work. Indeed, while his guard 
maintains a tight-lipped and dour 
watch over him, he is continually buy 
ing drinks for other travelers and 
exchanging stories, some of them at the 
expense of his masters, the Red Wiz 
ards. 

Motivations: Alzegund also spies on 
the military strength of Cormyr and of 
Zhentil Keep. Like all Red Wizards, his 
main loyalty is to himself, and he seeks 
to learn as much as he can to make him 
self useful to the Red Wizards. 

However, he is not working so much 
to strengthen the Red Wizards as he is 
to strengthen his own position on the 
Inner Sea. At his age, he realizes that he 
will probably never become a master of 
a school or a zulkir, so he intends to do 
as well as he can and retire to some non- 
Thayvian area, where he can create his 
own power base. 

Background notes: Alzegund was 
born into the noble clan of Agneh in 
Thay. He had risen to the second level 
of accomplishment as a magic-user 
when an intra-family feud resulted in 
the death of his parents and most of his 
siblings. 

Alzegund was, in fact, studying under 
an uncle who was not involved on 
either side of the feud. By keeping to his 
studies and out of family discussions, 
he managed to stay alive. He made his 
peace with his father's murderers and 
continued his studies. 

Five years later, as a successful 
seventh-level magic-user, he managed 
to successfully use charm monster on a 
powerful monster, and unleashed it in 
his father's enemy's bedroom. 

The next day he was on his way on his 


first trip outside of Thay, the appren 
tice to the wizard guardian of a trade 
caravan. He has been plying the trade- 
ways of the Inner Sea, and avoiding his 
family, ever since. 

Alzegund's intent in being chummy in 
the taverns with everyone who will 
drink with him is principally to draw 
out his new-found companions and get 
information from them, making them 
think he is a harmless toss-pot who 
loves the Red Wizards no more than 
most of their neighbors. Very few high- 
ranking officials are taken in by this 
demeanor, but he can often get vital 
information from lower-ranking per 
sons, and sometimes uses his magics (he 
is a proficient alchemist) to do favors 
for them, for which he then claims a 
reward by forcing information from his 
"friends" or even having them steal 
things for him. 

Other notes: When dealing with 
Alzegund, a character should be sure to 
check his neck when leaving, for fear 
the Thayvian has managed to get his 
head from him as "surety." Alzegund 
takes his role as trader and caravan 
master very seriously. 

His route takes him from Suzail in 
Cormyr to Selgaunt in Sembia, thence 
to Procampur across the Dragon Reach 
and then along the coast to Telflamm, 
where he meets his contacts and 
arranges for the next trip. He often 
makes side trips to Hillsfar, Turmish, 
the Pirate Isles, Altumbel, and West- 
gate. A trading trip takes from one to 
three years, depending on how many 
stops he makes and the extent of trade 
and materials necessary to take back to 
Thay. 

During troubled times, such as when 
Zhentil Keep is being particularly 
aggressive, he enlists extra aid in con 
voying his goods. Since these goods 
often include slaves, he is very careful 
about who he is hiring. 

His men-at-arms are all human males. 
Their membership changes over the 
years, but now consists of the sergeant, 
who is a sixth-level fighter, three 
fourth-level fighters who have been 
with Alzegund for a couple of years. 


57 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


and two second-level sword appren 
tices who are on their first trip with 
him. 

Characters running into Alzegund 
can find him a fund of information, a 
good target for a robbery (he usually 
carries about 20,000 gp in coins, gems, 
and a couple items of jewelry), or a 
potential patron. Characters can get 
Him flammed or supported by Alze 
gund. And, of course, Alzegund is one 
way of getting to see the mysterious 
land of Thay, though this could involve 
getting there in a slave coffle. 

Due to his alignment, Alzegund will 
live up to the letter of any agreement he 
makes with characters, but will try to 
weasel out of any contract by using the 
contract against the characters. 

MouRNgRm 
AmcaTbRA, Loizb of 

ARMOR CLASS: 1(9) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 32 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (6'4") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Human Cavalier 
S:15 1:13 W:9 D:ll C:14 CH:11 

Armor: Plate mail, ring of protection 

+ 1 . 

Languages: Common, Elven, 

Dwarfish. 

Common skills: Armorer. 

Possessions: Ring of protection +1 
(always worn on right hand), broad 
sword +3 (2d4 + 3/ld6 +4), shield +1, 
knife (enchanted to transform into a 
short sword on command). 

Weapons of proficiency: short 
sword (Id6/ld8), broad sword (2d4/ 
ld6 +1), long sword (Id8/ldl2), dagger 
(Id4/ld3), lance (3d3/3d6, double if 
mounted), mace (ld4 + l/ld4 + 1). 


Experience points: 65,000. 

Money: 45,000 gp. 

Combat: Mourngrym leads any bat 
tle he fights. He feels it his duty to bear 
the brunt of the assault, inspire his 
comrades to greater valor, and protect 
those unable to defend themselves. He 
attacks with the most powerful sword 
available, preferably his own broad 
sword. He always carries a knife that 
can transform on command into a short 
sword. 

Mourngrym is dominated by concern 
for his wife. If she is in the same battle, 
he battles to a protective position in 
front of her. If she is directly attacked, 
he will ignore the rest of the battle in 
his effort to get to her. If Shaerl is 
wounded severely and falls uncon 
scious, Mourngrym will enter a ber 
serker rage centered on whoever 
harmed her. Holding Shaerl hostage 
will not work; even if she is threatened 
with immediate death, Mourngrym will 
attempt a rescue rather than give in to 
her captor. 

Appearance: Mourngrym is a large, 
middle-aged man with dark brown hair, 
a hearty figure still blessed with the 
muscles he developed during his years 
of battle. His hair is well-trimmed. He is 
always clean. 

Personality: Mourngrym likes to 
think he is benevolent and protective. 
He believes in the obligations of the 
nobility and the strong to protect and 
guide those weaker or in need of help. 
He knows what is right. If events sug 
gest he might be wrong, he subcon 
sciously denies it and rearranges things 
to support his belief in his infallibility. 
He does not consciously deny the truth, 
but he will deny truth the chance to be 
heard. 

His opponents and few detractors 
hold him to be smothering, paternalis 
tic, and condescending. 

In the past, Mourngrym was privately 
bothered by his beloved wife's past. He 
rationalized it by believing that she 
stole only from evil people or monsters. 
In any event, he considers her retired, 
hence her past is irrelevant. 

Relatives: Shaerl Amcathra (wife), 


child (name unrecorded). 

Allies: Elminster, Harpers, Randall 
Morn, Knights of Myth Drannor. 
Patron deity: Tymora. 

Home: The Tower of Ashaba, Sha- 
dowdale. 

Personal history: He began as a 
young noble of Waterdeep and was a 
youthful ally of the Harpers. He 
admired Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, 
the arch-wizard. Mourngrym jumped 
at Khelben's offer to join Doust Sul- 
wood, lord of Shadowdale. Mourngrym 
was an enthusiastic member of Black- 
staff's adventuring band as they fur 
thered the cause of good in the 
Dragonreach area. Mourngrym served 
ably in many small skirmishes and 
adventures and was able to amass a siz 
able fortune. The relationship was bro 
ken when Blackstaff and the others 
decided to renounce their holdings and 
return to full-time adventuring as the 
"Knights of Myth Drannor." Mourn 
grym wanted to join, but Blackstaff per 
suaded him to assume sovereignty over 
Shadowdale. 

As a ruler, Mourngrym has proven to 
be a shrewd, cautious, and diplomatic 
lord of authority and foresight. He has 
periodically returned to the field of bat 
tle, such as the time he aided Randall 
Morn of Daggerdale in resisting Zhentil 
Keep, or his frequent battles against 
drow invasions from the subterranean 
realms. 

Mourngrym was surprised and 
pleased when the new Cormyrian emis 
sary proved to be the noblewoman 
Shaerl Rowanmantle. They became 
very friendly, then intimate, although 
Mourngrym felt his duties kept him 
from marrying. He was puzzled when 
she insisted on joining him on his forays 
in defense of Shadowdale. He felt this 
was unseemly and dangerous for a 
woman of the court. When she 
revealed that she was an extremely 
competent thief and combatant, 
Mourngrym was at a loss for words. He 
was inwardly torn between his strong 
adherence to the law and his love for 
Shaerl. He often rationalized his feel 
ings in that it was all right for her to be 


58 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


a thief if her prey were Shadowdale's 
enemies. Still, he grew distant as time 
passed. 

He was shattered when, in the midst 
of a fierce battle against devils, Shaerl 
died for him, but then the love in her 
sacrifce filled him with the power to 
seize victory. Later, Moumgrym discov 
ered that Shaerl had kept from him the 
secret that she was carrying his child. 

Mourngrym realized just how great a 
fool he had been. He spared no effort or 
expense in seeking her resurrection. He 
was the first sight her reborn eyes 
looked upon. Their wedding was a 
grand affair. She soon bore him a child, 
and it looked like a happy ending was 
finally upon them. 

Mourngrym has long been an ally of 
the Harpers, but it was only recently 
revealed that he was in fact a Harper 
himself. It is unknown when Mourn 
grym actually joined their ranks. 

As middle age and fatherhood took 
hold, Mourngrym's attitudes subtly 
altered. His normal self-confident 
benevolence has become smothering 
paternalism. 

SbaeRl LLatebaoewN 

RoujAwmaNjTLe 

AmcaTbRa 

ARMOR CLASS 6 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 31 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M(5'10") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Human Thief 
S:8 1:12 W:6 D:15 C:ll CH:12 

Armor: None. 

Languages: Common, Thieves' 
Cant. 

Skills: Jeweler/lapidary. 

Possessions: Ring of protection +3 
(always worn on right hand), dagger 


+2 (ld4 + 2/ld4 + 1), silver dagger (ld4/ 
ld3), darts (8) (Id3/ld2), short sword 
(Id6/ld8). 

Weapons of proficiency: Short 
sword, dagger, dart. 

Experience points: 36,000. 

Money: 45,000 gp. 

Combat: Shaerl prefers to avoid 
combat. If possible, she will flee rather 
than fight. If her companions are 
threatened, she fights with cunning 
and skill. She usually remains in the 
rear, throwing darts and knives past or 
between her allies. When adventuring, 
she carries all her weapons. Even when 
she is at court, she is still a formidable 
foe. She always wears her ring of pro 
tection and carries her two daggers in 
places where she can get at them within 
an eye's blink. 

Appearance: Shaerl is an attractive, 
patrician woman with a graceful body 
that retains a firm muscle tone into her 
mid-30s. Her russet hair is bound at 
shoulder length but actually reaches to 
her hips. In court she favors simple 
gowns with elaborate embroidery. 
When on an adventure or a nocturnal 
foray, she prefers loose, dark garments 
and binds her hair into a tight club. 

Personality: Shaerl is adventurous 
and danger-seeking. She dislikes the 
mundane, unexciting life led by her 
parents and siblings. Although Shaerl 
upholds the obligations and duties of 
her station, she longs for her wild 
youth and the adventuring life. 

She is fiercely protective of Mourn 
grym and their child. If the child is 
threatened, she will remorselessly deal 
with the child's captor in as painful a 
way as possible. She acts as Mourn 
grym's bodyguard and discreetly deals 
with threats to him. 

Relatives: Mourngrym Amcathra 
(husband), child (name unrecorded). 

Allies: Lord Thomdor. 

Patron deity: Mask. 

Home: Tower of Ashaba, Shadow- 
dale. 

Personal history: Shaerl was born 
into a noble Llairhavenn family of 
Suzail, a city in the kingdom of Cormyr. 
She had a normal upper-class upbring 


ing, full of pomp and luxury, and she 
became utterly bored with it all. There 
were very few socially accepted outlets 
for adventuresome girls of her class. 
Frustration and a natural mischievious- 
ness turned her toward thievery. She 
became a self-taught cat burglar. She 
secretly practiced breaking into her 
parents' quarters and vaults, then 
moved on to break into other noble 
houses as her skills and self-confidence 
grew. She never stole that much; she 
mostly collected souvenirs of her esca 
pades. 

Her nocturnal activities were eventu 
ally detected. Unbeknownst to her, she 
was observed and identified by two 
captains of the city guard. They recog 
nized the problems that might result 
from a simple arrest and reported their 
findings to Lord Thomdor. Thomdor 
himself was loath to punish the enter 
prising lass. He knew the problems 
inherent in a scandal involving a noble 
family. He knew her, her family, and 
especially the spirit that burned so 
fiercely within her. After deliberation, 
he summoned her to a secret, personal 
meeting; even her parents were 
unaware of it. Shaerl was immediately 
suspicious, but she knew she had no 
choice but to accede to his request. She 
was surprised at how long she had been 
under observation. She was even more 
surprised when Thomdor made her an 
offer. He offered her the chance to do 
something both meaningful and enter 
taining. She was to go to Shadowdale as 
an emissary of Cormyr and attempt to 
ally herself with Mourngrym, lord of 
the dale. There she was to learn all she 
could about both him and the dale, as 
well as spread Cormyrian views and 
explain their interests in the Shadow- 
dale area. Then she was to report back 
to Lord Thomdor. The alternative he 
offered was public exposure, disgrace, 
and imprisonment. 

She accepted, of course. Thomdor lat 
er made a public request for her serv 
ices, which she dutifully accepted. No 
one was ever aware of the earlier meet 
ing. Her parents were a bit puzzled by 
the sudden display of civic responsibili- 


59 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


ty, but soon turned their attention to 
the current social calendar. 

Shaerl originally resented her mis 
sion since it was not her own idea. She 
found Mourngrym to be a heroic, char 
ismatic figure, but she quietly blamed 
him for her misfortune. As time pro 
gressed, her feelings changed. Despite 
her inner misgivings, she took a liking 
to the man. They became lovers. When 
her mission was ostensibly completed, 
she decided to stay in Shadowdale. 

Shaerl found that Mourngrym's for 
ays in the defense of his realm offered 
her a chance to indulge in the excite 
ment and danger she craved. She qui 
etly gathered suitable equipment for an 
itinerant thief of her stature. When 
Mourngrym set off on one of his forays, 
she followed at a distance. That night 
she appeared in camp and announced 
she was going with him. Mourngrym 
was reluctant to have his lady love join 
him on adventures into the wild lands. 
He was extremely surprised to discover 
that she was a well-trained thief and 
combatant, though she had to knock 
him to the ground twice before the idea 
set in that she could take care of her 
self. 

ShaerTs skills proved helpful in many 
an adventure. She grew far more 
skilled than she might have as a simple 
cat burglar. The danger of the quest 
gave her a fire she had not known. Even 
her love for Mourngrym gained in 
intensity. Mourngrym, on the other 
hand, grew increasingly distant as she 
gained experience. He grew cooler 
toward her; although he still loved her, 
he wasn't sure he liked her. Shaerl sadly 
realized that she had lost him. When 
she discovered that she was pregnant 
with his child, she chose not to tell him. 
She still loved him, though she kept her 
fire inside. The turning point came dur 
ing a battle in the woodlands of Myth 
Drannor. In a move that surprised 
everyone, Shaerl sacrificed herself in 
order to protect Mourngrym. 

She remembered little of what fol 
lowed except for vague images of a 
mostly forgotten dream. When she 
awoke, she discovered that Mourn 


grym arranged her resurrection. The 
two publicly declared their love for 
each other and were married soon 
after. The first pregnancy was termi 
nated by ShaerTs death, but she was 
determined to try again. Shaerl recent 
ly bore Mourngrym their first child, the 
future lord of the dale. 

Thomdor is well pleased with her. She 
is welcome anytime in Cormyr. Her par 
ents are still oblivious to her true activi 
ties. They are pleased that she is 
member of the ruling nobility some 
where and delighted that she has 
played an important part in the life of 
the Cormyrian king, Azoun, since this 
reflects well on their own family's sta 
tus. 

Motherhood made her take a hiatus 
from thieving activities. Within the year 
though, the old urges returned. Shaerl 
returned to practicing her more acro 
batic skills on the night-shrouded roof 
tops of Shadowdale. She has also begun 
to publicly display some of her skills. 
She has become a figure of admiration 
for many daughters of the Shadowdale 
court. 

KbeLbew "BLAcksTaff" 
Akukisuki of 
WdTojzdeep 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 70 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ ATTACK: 2d6 + 2 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6') 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
26th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:14 1:18 W:16 D:16 C:16 CH:15 

Commonly remembered spells 

• First-level - Burning hands, charm 
person, detect magic, identify, 
light, read magic. 

• Second-level - Detect invisibility, 
flying fist (see FR4, THE MAGIS- 


TER), knock, locate object. 

• Third-level - Clairvoyance, haste, 
protection from normal missiles. 

• Fourth-level - Dispel illusion, 
minor globe of invulnerability, 
Rary's mnemonic enhancer, 
remove curse. 

• Fifth-level - Dismissal, 
feeblemind, sending, telekinesis. 

• Sixth-level - Death spell, guards 
and wards, power word: silence 
(see FR4, THE MAGISTER), project 
image. 

• Seventh-level - Khelben's warding 
whip (see FR4, THE MAGISTER), 
limited wish, teleport without 
error. 

• Eighth-level - Demand, mass 
charm, power word: blind. 

• Ninth-level - Astral spell, Elmin- 
ster's evasion (a spell learned from 
the sage of Shadowdale and 
described above under Elminster), 
imprisonment, time stop. 

Blackstaff also has the spells catapult, 
Detho's delirium, and decastave in his 
spellbooks, but rarely uses them except 
in special circumstances. They can all 
be found in the description of Detho's 
Libram in FR4, THE MAGISTER. Simi 
larly, his spell dismind is in his books, as 
described in the FORGOTTEN 
REALMS(tm) sourcebook. 

Physical description: Khelben is a 
tall (6'), well-muscled, bearded human 
male, with a receding hairline, black 
hair shot through with white, and a dis 
tinguished manner. He always carries 
his trademark black staff, which is his 
staff of power. 

Equipment: Khelben has bracers of 
AC2, a ring of protection +3, a staff of 
power, and a wand of banishment (see 
FR1, WATERDEEP AND THE NORTH, or 
FR4, THE MAGISTER). No doubt he has 
many other items, scrolls, and potions 
available, but these items are always 
with him. 

Among his possessions, Blackstaff has 
the Libram of Lathintel, which is 
described in FR4, THE MAGISTER. 

Personality: Khelben is often 
thought (untruly) to be humorless. His 
public persona is gravely wise, but not 


60 















































pompous. He likes to encourage young 
magic-users, particularly those he 
thinks he can recruit into the Harpers. 

Motivations: Khelben is dedicated 
to furthering civilization and making 
the world safe for everyone. He is 
always working to influence this or that 
incident or trend, looking years ahead. 
He is a forester and a painter, and has 
trained many mages of note. 

Background notes: Khelben Arun- 
sun has a long history on the Sword 
Coast. Now he is considered the most 
powerful and influential arch-mage of 
the Sword Coast and is one of the rulers 
of Waterdeep (though he does not 
admit this openly, most people in the 
North suspect it). 

He is allied to the Harpers, and instru 
mental in keeping the Lords Alliance (of 
Silverymoon, Sundabar, Neverwinter, 
and other "good" cities of the North) 
with Waterdeep intact. He is learned in 
the history, lore, and traditions of magic 
as practiced by humans in the North 
since the rise from barbarism. 

Other notes: It is suggested that 
DMs adjust Khelben's level upward to 
10 levels above the strongest PC, for use 
in humbling runaway characters. 

K)bjg Azoun IV of 
Corimyrz 

ARMOR CLASS: 0/ -7 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 105 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (5'11") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
20th-Level Human Cavalier 
S:18/00 1:15 W:14 D:18 C:18 CH:16 

Weapon proficiencies: Lance, 
long sword, broad sword, horseman's 
flail. 

Non-weapon proficiencies: Eti 
quette, heraldry, falconry, alertness. 


horsemanship, reading/writing, music. 

Those who have seen the good king of 
Cormyr report him to be a handsome 
man, standing just under 6' tall. He 
maintains the regimens of exercise and 
drill he adopted as a young cavalier and 
is in excellent shape for a middle-aged 
man. Azoun's brown hair and beard are 
only now beginning to show hints of sil 
ver. 

He is happily married, and his wife, 
Filfaeril Selzair, is as strong-willed and 
as cultured as her husband. Azoun and 
Filfaeril have two daughters, Alusair 
and Tanalesta. Their only son, Foril, 
died when he was only 2. The loss of his 
only male heir remains a source of 
great anguish for Azoun. 

Azoun's nickname - "The Purple 
Dragon" - is derived from his battle 
standard. The banner with the purple 
dragon on a black field has flown over 
Cormyr for many, relatively peaceful, 
years. This long period of prosperity, 
coupled with Azoun's reputation of 
being a just ruler, has made Azoun's 
subjects loyal and content. 

However, Azoun himself has found 
the price of rulership difficult to pay. 
Because he is a devoted father and hus 
band, he has often found the demands 
of state far too taxing on his personal 
time. Also, because Azoun is idealistic, 
he finds the idea of sometimes placing 
the survival of the state over the needs 
of its individual citizens very disturb 
ing. 

Vangerdahast, the royal court magi 
cian and Azoun's closest friend, will 
often advise the king on these difficult 
matters. Because "Vangy" does not 
share Azoun's Lawful Good outlook, 
favoring instead the tenets of Law and 
Neutrality, he will often attempt to per 
suade Azoun that his rigid belief in 
Good cannot always be functional in 
the "real world." 

Yet, despite any momentary doubts 
Azoun may have about the conflicts of 
individual liberty vs. duty to the state, 
he will always make his decisions based 
upon loyalty and duty to the "higher" 
good of the state and the promotion of 
peace in the kingdom. In functional 


terms, this means he expects all able cit 
izens of Cormyr to serve or support the 
large standing army established in the 
kingdom. Any adventuring parties of 
four or more members based in Cor 
myr must be registered with the king 
and will likely have a set term of service 
they must fulfill in the army each year. 

Azoun recognizes the sacrifice his cit 
izens must make to support the state. 
Because of this, he is determined to 
make Cormyr the safest and most 
peaceful kingdom possible. Adventur 
ers will encounter many facets of 
Azoun's "peace policy" every day they 
spend in Cormyr. 

Azoun does not permit mercenaries 
or adventurers free rein in the city 
when they are not under binding con 
tract to a local merchant or nobleman. 
Adventurers wishing to make their per 
manent residence in Cormyr must 
obtain a charter from Azoun. Public 
display of weapons is also limited, and 
adventurers who travel armed in pub 
lic must have their weapons bound in 
"peace strings," ornate cords which are 
knotted around a weapon to deter its 
quick use. 

Though Azoun does maintain his 
skills as a swordsman, he personally 
favors the finer things his position can 
offer him. He is a patron of the arts, and 
his court at Suzail is one of the most 
refined in all the Realms. He dabbles in 
both poetry and music, but is especially 
fond of drama. 

This may account for his penchant 
for disguises. Often, when he ventures 
out of the court, he will try to pass him 
self off as a merchant. He is, in fact, 
quite adept at this and can sometimes 
fool even the most astute observer. 

The other possible motivation for 
Azoun's use of disguises is his long 
standing feud with the thieves and 
assassins guilds in and around Cormyr. 
Azoun detests thieves and assassins, 
and he went so far as to drive the Fire 
Knives, an organization of assassins, 
from Cormyr. There are many practi 
tioners of the thieving arts who would 
be happy to see Azoun dead, and he has 
been the object of many assassination 


61 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


attempts. One of these attempts 
involved the creation of Alias by the 
Fire Knives, among others. 

For their very substantial financial 
backing of Cassana as she prepared her 
experiment for life, the Fire Knives 
were allowed to include their sigil on 
Alias' arm and program her for one 
task. The Fire Knives decided their 
highest priority was the assassination 
of Azoun. As soon as she heard King 
Azoun's voice. Alias was instructed to 
attack and kill him immediately. The 
plot failed when Giogioni Wyvernspur, 
a Cormyrian nobleman, imitated 
Azoun's voice at a wedding. Alias 
attacked Giogi, and it was only luck, and 
the interference of Alias' friends, that 
saved Giogi's life. 

Azoun has a very high regard for 
magic and magic-users, and he recog 
nizes the great potential for good and 
evil among practitioners of the magic 
arts. Mages of fifth level or higher must 
register with the government. The 
magic-user's name, sigil, and abode are 
recorded with Vangerdahast. The royal 
magician and the Council of Mages in 
Suzail, also known as the "war wizards," 
will often call upon the mages regis 
tered with them for state service in 
times of crisis. 

Azoun wears bracers of defense (AC 
3), and a +3 ring of protection when 
not in battle. He also wears a ring of 
free action at all times. In battle, in true 
cavalier style, Azoun wears a magnifi 
cent suit of +5 full plate armor, and 
carries a +2 shield emblazoned with 
his standard. He owns a large number 
of enchanted swords but prefers to 
fight with either his vorpal sword or 
+4 defender. 

In playing Azoun, GMs should 
remember that the king is committed to 
the safety and freedom of his people. 
He will deal harshly with trouble 
makers and will tend toward over 
generosity with those who want to help 
the kingdom. However, Vangerdahast 
will be at his side or very close by at all 
times to make sure things don't get out 
of hand. 


AkabaR Bel Akash 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 15 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By spell 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6'2") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fifth-Level Human Human Magic-User 
S:ll 1:15 W:13 D:12 C:13 CH:14 

Non-weapon proficiencies: 

Direction sense, cooking, survival cold, 
reading/ writing. 

Commonly used spells: Fly, pyro 
technics, wizard eye, magic missile, dis 
pel magic, enlarge, continual light, 
magic mouth, cantrips, haste, deep 
pockets, bind. 

Akabar Bel Akash, from the rich and 
prosperous land of Turmish, is a mer 
chant and "mage of no small water," as 
they say in that part of the Realms. Aka 
bar deals in fine weaves and spices, and 
is known by all who deal with him as a 
fair and honest trader. 

Like many Turmish merchants, Aka 
bar sports a mustache and a long, 
square beard. He is dark-skinned, blue 
eyed, and has curly brown hair which 
he often bands with gold cords. Though 
the merchant-mage is very thin, his 
true size is often hidden by the large, 
billowing robes he favors. He will often 
be found wearing robes of crimson 
highlighted with thin white stripes and 
a white cloak with red trim. His cloth 
ing cannot hide his height of 6'2", how 
ever. 

Akabar has three blue dots tattooed 
horizontally across his forehead. These 
dots mark him as a Turmish scholar of 
religion, reading, and magic. He also 
wears a single sapphire embedded in 
his left earlobe. The earring signifies 
that Akabar is married. 

In fact, Akabar has two wives - 
Akash and Kassim - and they are cur 
rently looking for a third wife to join 


the family. This may sound a bit odd, 
but it isn't when you realize that Turm 
ish businesses are run by women, and 
businesses are generally family opera 
tions. Akabar, in fact, is little more than 
a front man for his wives' enterprises. 

This does not mean that Akabar is not 
self-sufficient or even strong-willed. 
Actually, he must have had both of 
those traits in order for his first wife to 
take him into her family when they 
married. He is very happy with his fam 
ily and business arrangement. He 
enjoys traveling, and sees that his 
strengths as a persuasive and honest 
seller are being put to good use. 

Akabar is generally very practical, 
and this fact is mirrored in the spells he 
commonly uses. The Turmishman will 
study spells that have specific uses in 
his travels as a merchant. 

He will always know a number of use 
ful cantrips, like clean, dry, and spice, 
and the higher-level spells he studies, 
like fly or haste, will be geared toward 
escape or self-preservation. Akabar 
commonly throws a magic mouth spell 
on his earring to alert him to danger as 
he sleeps. 

The most offense-oriented spell he 
studies is magic missile - never fireball 
or lightning bolt - and that spell is used 
to skewer his dinner more often than it 
is to strike an opponent. His recent 
adventures, however, have made him 
quite proficient in the use of his chosen 
spells. In battle, he will often fly around 
his opponents, using his other spells to 
keep them off-balance until he and his 
party have a chance to escape. 

The events that so radically changed 
Akabar's peaceful, prosperous life were 
the result of his desire to have one mag 
nificent adventure before he got too 
old. He got far more than he bargained 
for and came very close to never grow 
ing old. 

Akabar's adventure started when he 
was delivering fine weaves to an estate 
north of Suzail for a wedding; 
Dimswart, a local magic-user and sage, 
was finally marrying off his last daugh 
ter. 

The caravan was attacked by Mis- 


62 












































MINOR CHARACTERS 


tinarperadnacles, a red dragon, and 
one of the wagons was carried away, 
along with its occupants, the intended 
entertainment for the wedding - the 
"famous bard" Olive Ruskettle. Aka- 
bar's spellbook was also taken in the 
raid, though it is unclear how Olive 
Ruskettle came to be carrying it when 
she was stolen away with the wagon. 

Dimswart was intent on rescuing the 
lost entertainer and hired a mysterious 
swordswoman, Alias, and her saurial 
companion, Dragonbait, to save her. 
Akabar knew of a secret way into the 
dragon's lair, and used that knowledge 
to force Alias and Dragonbait to take 
him along. 

This was not his first meeting with 
Alias. Only a few days before Dimswart 
sent them to rescue Olive Ruskettle, 
Akabar had tried to discover the origins 
of the strange tattoo on Alias' right arm. 
When Akabar cast a detect magic spell 
on the tattoo, a frightening blue light 
erupted from it. Alias was understand 
ably upset by this and was not pleased 
when Akabar - the Turmite green gro 
cer, as she sarcastically called him - 
was included in her foray against the 
dragon. 

As time went on, and Akabar and Ali 
as shared more adventures, the two 
grew very close. Akabar considered 
himself Alias' protector for a long time. 
As Alias grew self-confident, and Aka 
bar learned to trust her mute saurial 
companion, Dragonbait, he realized 
that he was not needed in that capacity. 

His time adventuring with Alias, as 
she searched for the origin of her mys 
terious "azure bonds," matured Akabar, 
especially in his use of magic. He 
became invaluable to Alias and was cru 
cial in the eventual defeat of Cassana 
and Zrie Prakis. 

For a time, Akabar was linked with 
the god Moander, when the deity 
escaped from his prison in Yulash. In 
the form of The Abomination - a 
mound of decaying earth and greenery 
that has the ability to grow a myriad of 
eyes and mouths - Moander captured 
the merchant-mage and possessed his 
mind, dragging him along like a puppet 


and using his voice and form to commu 
nicate with Alias, who was also a pris 
oner at the time. The effects of this 
possession are still unknown, though, 
as Akabar noted, his part in the eventu 
al defeat of the mad god will certainly 
gain him Moander's eternal enmity. 

In a game scenario, Akabar will be 
encountered as a merchant. He has had 
his magnificent adventure and is now 
content to spend the rest of his days 
trading his wares in the Realms. 

However, Akabar Bel Akash now feels 
a strong kindred spirit with adventur 
ers and will be helpful in any way he 
can - short of joining in their adven 
tures. His travels as a merchant have 
given him an outstanding knowledge of 
the areas surrounding the Inner Sea, in 
addition to his vast knowledge of Turm- 
ish history and religion, He will be glad 
to talk, at length, on any one of these 
subjects, or just trade tales of adven 
tures with friendly parties he encoun 
ters. 

Cass ama 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 35 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By spell 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
15th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:ll 1:18 W:12 D:13 C:13 CH:16 

Non-weapon proficiencies: 

Reading/writing, etiquette. 

Commonly used spells: Torment, 
repulsion, death spell, teleport, cloud 
kill, fear, animate dead, polymorph oth 
er, fireball. 

The first thing one notices about the 
strangely attractive sorceress is that 
her features seem like they have been 
etched irrevocably in alabaster. Her 
beauty seems too perfect to be real. In 
fact, it is not real at all. 


Cassana is several hundred years old, 
but appears to be no more than 40. 
However, the sorceress is very proud 
and would never allow herself to seem 
anything less than beautiful. Her long, 
deep reddish-blonde hair and hard, 
green eyes, her harsh, high cheekbones 
and soft, flawless skin, have all been 
preserved through a complicated lon 
gevity spell stored in the wand she con 
stantly carries. 

Cassana's preserved beauty cannot 
hide her dark, perverted soul. Cassana 
is an irrevocably evil, sadistic woman. 
As she has survived for several hun 
dred years, too, she's had plenty of time 
to perfect her depravity and support it 
with her extensive magical ability. 

The sorceress's cruelty, though many 
call it insanity, is so legendary that an 
opera has been written about her. The 
story the opera tells, that of the warped 
relationship between Cassana and Zrie 
Prakis, is well-known in the Realms. 
The tale reveals a great deal about Cas- 
sana's personality. 

Cassana met Prakis while they were 
both magelings, just beginning their 
studies of the magical arts. They fell in 
love, pledged their eternal faithfulness, 
then were forced to part. 

Different versions of the story give 
different reasons for this separation. In 
one version, Cassana and Zrie Prakis 
are sent on their journeyman quests to 
opposite ends of the Inner Sea; in 
another, Zrie Prakis gets lost on the 
Ethereal Plane and cannot return for 
many years. Typically, the opera has 
Cassana kidnapped by pirates and 
unable to return to her lover. 

All versions of the story agree on 
what happened next. As the years pass 
and the lovers remain separate, both 
Cassana and Zrie Prakis grow vain and 
evil and very powerful. When they next 
meet, they duel over who is the more 
powerful. Cassana wins the contest, but 
only by killing Zrie Prakis. 

Whether Cassana was already a 
depraved person by this time or the act 
of murdering her lover drove her 
insane, her actions after the duel reveal 
just how perverse she was. After she 


63 













































MINOR CHARACTERS 


killed Zrie Prakis, Cassana gathered her 
lover's charred remains and placed 
them in a glass sarcophagus that she 
keeps by her bedside. 

Eventually, Cassana helped to revive 
Zrie Prakis and now controls the lich 
through her wand, as she does all of her 
"creations." The sorceress loves to dom 
inate and control beings and is only sat- 
isfied when she has broken an 
opponent's will. It is likely this is the 
reason she resurrected Zrie Prakis: His 
death was far too quick, and Cassana 
was left with no chance to gloat on the 
victory and break her lover's haughty 
spirit. 

This desire for control was certainly 
Cassana's main motivation for the crea 
tion of the swordswoman, Alias - or 
"Puppet," as Cassana called her. In fact, 
the sorceress's desire for control over 
Alias was such that she made the 
swordswoman in her image, though 
Alias' features are far less harsh than 
Cassana's. 

For the experiment, the sorceress 
gathered the support of Zrie Prakis, the 
Fire Knives, the mad god Moander, a 
mysterious, extra-dimensional halfling- 
shaped being named Phalse, and the 
Nameless Bard. While most of the 
beings involved in Alias' creation had a 
clear, specific goal for her, Cassana 
wanted simply to create something 
over which she had absolute control. 

Of course, it did not work out that 
way. Alias was instrumental in Cas 
sana's death on the plains outside of 
Westgate, where Cassana maintained 
her home. During a ceremony which 
was intended to destroy whatever free 
will Alias had achieved after her birth, 
Alias, Akabar, Dragonbait, Olive 
Ruskettle, and the Nameless Bard ral 
lied against Cassana and her allies. 

During the battle, Cassana's wand 
was tossed into the extra-planar Citadel 
of White Exile, where it was later 
destroyed. Though a formidable enemy 
even without her wand, the combined 
might of the heroes was too much for 
Cassana. The sorceress was apparently 
destroyed when Zrie Prakis' staff of 
power was broken while she was hold 


ing it. 

GMs should emphasize Cassana's cha 
risma and cruelty in game encounters. 
If she is resurrected in some form in a 
game, she will first recreate her wand 
and restore her youthful appearance. 
Also she will likely be even more insane 
and vengeful than she was in her earli 
er incarnation. She will then gather 
allies and will usually have at least two 
servants of notable power at her imme 
diate call. 

The sorceress's wand was 18" long, 
shimmering blue, and had three func 
tions. First, it acted as a modified per 
manent potion of longevity, allowing 
Cassana not to age when she was in pos 
session of the wand. The wand also 
allowed her to control Zrie Prakis. The 
lich's existence was somehow linked to 
the wand. When the wand was 
destroyed, it is assumed Prakis was 
destroyed as well. Finally, the wand 
allowed Cassana to control Alias and 
creatures she summoned from other 
planes, like the dreaded kalmari, as if 
they were puppets under her com 
mand. 

Cassana's spellbook is still somewhere 
in Westgate. Though it is well protect 
ed, the book is very valuable and worth 
the time to recover. The book is bound 
in black leather with Cassana's sigil - 
an insect leg-shaped squiggle surround 
ed by a design of thorns - is on the cov 
er and binding. 

The thorns are a special defense. 
Anyone touching the book will cause 
the branches of thorns to come to life 
and attack the intruder, moving 
straight for his or her eyes. A failed 
save vs. magic will mean the character 
is permanently blinded. The book is 
also protected by Xult's magical doom, 
for those who make it past the thorns. 

The spellbook contains 28 pages, each 
containing one spell. The book con 
tains: alarm, comprehend languages, 
magic missile, read magic, spider climb, 
bind, darkness 15' radius, ray of enfee- 
blement, ray of Ondovir waves of wea 
riness, fireball, fly, lightning bolt, 
missile mastery, wind wall, confusion, 
dimension door, fear, ice storm, poly 


morph other, animate dead, cloud kill, 
contact other planes, teleport, Xult's 
magical doom, death spell, repulsion, 
and torment. 

CaTD-BR)e 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" Hit Points: 22 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (5'4") 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Third-Level Human Fighter 
S:12 1:14 W:16 D:16 C:15 CH:17 

"Beautiful women were a rarity in 
this remote setting (Ten-Towns), and 
this girl was indeed the exception. 
Shiny auburn locks danced gaily about 
her shoulders, the intense sparkle of 
her dark blue eyes enough to bind any 
man hopelessly within their depths." 

- from Streams of Silver 

Beautiful indeed is the adopted 
daughter of Bruenor Battlehammer, but 
an enemy should take care not to 
underestimate the young woman. So 
innocent, she seems, and so full of kind 
ness and gaiety. Yet she was raised 
among the hardened dwarves in the 
brutal land of Icewind Dale and knows 
which end of the sword is which. 

Tolerant, though. Catti-brie is not 
quick to anger, and even then reluctant 
to fight. She prefers to talk through a 
problem, or to simply walk away. 

Not for fear, though. Brave and able 
as any warrior. Catti-brie wades into 
battle with complete composure and a 
methodical approach to get the job 
done as painlessly as possible. She 
abhors violence and all the suffering it 
brings, but she is realistic enough to 
understand the practicality of knowing 
how to defend herself. 

And she is well suited to do so. She 
wears a suit of elven chain mail (not 
magical) which Bruenor had acquired 


64 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 



in a trade for some weapons he had 
forged. She wears no shield, nor a 
helm, and typically fights with a long 
sword in melee, but an approaching foe 
is likely to get stuck with Catti-brie's 
favorite dagger, which is always 
strapped to her hip, long before he ever 
gets to her. The dagger is +1 to hit and 
to damage in melee, but specially bal 
anced to be +3 to hit when thrown, 
though the damage bonus remains +1. 

Though formidable in battle, Catti- 
brie's heart is for the home. She places 
more value on people and feelings than 
on material possessions and exotic loca 
tions. By her thinking, the real struggles 
in life are internal battles - Bruenor 
coming to accept his present life in light 
of his obsession to find Mithril Hall; 
Drizzt Do'Urden (whom Catti-brie plac 
es upon a high pedestal of respect and 
admiration) finding worth in an exist 
ence of few friends and fewer com 
forts; and herself, reaching beyond the 
scars of her past. 

She was bom in Mirabar, the daughter 
of a miner. Her mother died in childbirth 
and her father, determined to make a bet 
ter life for his baby girl, moved to Ten- 
Towns, the village of Termalaine, to find 
his fortune in the valuable knucklehead 
trout. For three years, he did indeed 
make great gains in his standard of living, 
and he even found a new wife and moth 
er for Catti-brie. 

But the lure of Ten-Towns' wealth 
blinds many to the dangers of the 
region. A goblin raid on Termalaine 
quickly ended the man's dreams and 
left Catti-brie orphaned. All of Terma 
laine might have fallen that day, except 
that Clan Battlehammer rushed out of 
their rocky valley and drove the foul 
horde away. Bruenor himself actually 
saved the baby girl from a goblin 
sword, and when the smoke had 
cleared away and the city was secured, 
he claimed the orphan as his own and 
took her back to the mines. 

Catti-brie has no real memories of the 
time before Bruenor, just conjured 
images pieced together from stories she 
has been told. But she has lived a fine 
life with the dwarves and has no bitter 


feelings about the tragedies of her past. 

"Life is for livin'!" she always says. 
"And there be no worth in painin' over 
what ye cannot change!" 

To Bruenor she remains his little girl, 
but in the short life span of a human, 
Catti-brie is now coming into adult 
hood. She is surrounded by colorful 
and heroic figures, has many dear 
friends and dozens of willing suitors 
(though even the most lovesick of these 
flinches whenever he thinks of her pro 
tective father's many-notched axe), but 
the man who intrigues Catti-brie the 
most is undoubtedly Wulfgar. 

For the five years that the young bar 
barian served Bruenor, Catti-brie 
watched him grow into a complete 
human being. She helped strip the 
bonds of his misguided pride from the 
caring and compassionate aspects of his 
personality, and now sees in him many 
of the finer attributes of both Drizzt 
and Bruenor. Both human, and about 
the same age. Catti-brie and Wulfgar 
have shared much in their time togeth 
er, their most personal feelings and 
fears, and their outlook on all the 
world. They have come to see that they 
are kindred spirits in many ways. 

They haven't realized it, perhaps, but 
they are in love. 

Roleplaying tips: Bouncy, and 
with a zest for living that only enhances 
her already awesome beauty, Catti-brie 
is much more than just an attractive 
centerpiece in a group of adventurers. 
Those that know her, respect her opin 
ions (which she'll freely give) and trust 
fully in her judgment. With a hard 
background and a pragmatic upbring 
ing by the down-to-earth dwarves, the 
young woman understands pain and 
the harsh realities of the world, but she 
refuses to give an inch with her optimis 
tic view that even a single person can 
make things better. 

And Catti-brie views each new person 
she meets as an enhancement to her 
life, dismissing Bruenor's teachings that 
a person must prove his worth. Quite 
the contrary, Catti-brie will be open and 
friendly to new acquaintances and 
believe the best of them until they do 


something to teach her otherwise. 

She's not fond of battle, even with 
goblins and the like, perceiving violence 
as the cornerstone of everything that is 
ugly in the world. Not that she'd walk 
into a goblin camp and try to make 
friends, she would just rather avoid 
them altogether. 

And if a member of a party shows her 
an ugly, destructive side, she'll walk 
away. And if they try to bring harm 
upon another, she'll defend their 
intended victim. 

Stubbornly, and without fear. 

FzouL Chembizy of 
ZbewDL Keep 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 80 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 +4 +4 mace) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
13th-Level Cleric 
S:12 1:14 W:17 D:15 C:16 CH:13 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Bless, ceremony, 
detect magic, protection from 
good. 

• Second-level - Augury, chant, hold 
person x2 

• Third-level - Bestow curse, dispel 
magic, prayer. 

• Fourth-level - Abjure, divination, 
tongues. 

• Fifth-level - Cure critical wounds, 
raise dead. 

• Sixth-level - Word of recall (which 
takes him to his hidden refuge in 
the wastes of Thar). 

Physical description: Fzoul is a 
human male, wily, glib-tongued, burly, 
red-haired-and-mustached, and hand 
some. He usually wears the full panoply 
of ceremonial garments of a high priest 
of Bane. 


65 












































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Equipment: Fzoul commonly wears 
bracers of defense AC2 and adds a suit 
of full plate when he goes into battle 
(making his armor class 0). He usually 
wields his mace +4, but uses a silver 
flail or a morning star +1 if the situa 
tion seems to demand them. On his fin 
gers he has a ring of free action and a 
ring of spell storing. He treasures the 
rod of cancellation which he keeps in a 
sheath inside his left boot. 

In his temple, The Dark Shrine, he 
has three blocks of incense of medita 
tion, and a staff of the serpent (adder) 
for personal use in emergencies. 

Personality: Fzoul is a politician. He 
has something good to say for anyone 
who can do him good, and nothing but 
scorn for those who cannot affect his 
career. He is also quite patient. His 
exploitation of the intricacies of Bane 
politics to gain power has been slow, 
but sure. 

Motivations: Fzoul is the leader of 
the minority of priests of Bane who fol 
low Manshoon. He, and they, feels that 
the proper worship of the god of tyr 
anny is to support a tyrant. He feels the 
most efficient tyrant around is Man 
shoon. Fzoul is careful to remain neces 
sary to and friends with Manshoon, 
while keeping as much power as possi 
ble in his own hands, so that Manshoon 
will never consider him expendable, or 
a threat so powerful that he must be 
destroyed. 

In fact, because of his command of 
the hierarchy of Bane within the Zhen- 
tarim, his influence with the everyday 
members of that organization is actu 
ally greater than Manshoon's. 

His main ambition is to be, for now 
and always, the true leader of the wor 
ship of Bane in Zhentil Keep. 

Background notes: Manshoon's 
rise to create and lead the Zhentarim is 
told elsewhere in this book. In Fzoul, he 
early found the ideal theological back 
ing for his play for power. 

Fzoul was an immediate convert to 
Manshoon's party - seeing in the char 
ismatic magic-user the embodiment of 
the true nature of his god. Moreover, he 
could see that by holding onto Man 


shoon's cloaktails, he could create his 
own tyranny within the church of 
Bane, and surely that must be pleasing 
to the god. 

By his machinations, Fzoul emerged 
at Manshoon's right side when the 
Zhentarim took over Zhentil Keep and 
then the Citadel of the Raven. The high 
imperceptor of Bane, a 19th-level cleric 
who has his headquarters in the Black 
Lord's Altar in Mulmaster, is now 
Fzoul's bitter enemy. The imperceptor, 
Szchulan Darkoon, continues to 
express his disdain for Manshoon as a 
priest and his belief that only Bane can 
be worshiped as the ultimate tyrant, 
and his priests should have the rule of 
the people of Bane. Many of those who 
follow these precepts are priests who 
theoretically follow Fzoul. There is 
some fear among Fzoul's followers that 
Szchulan is working with the eye tyrant 
Manxam, but Fzoul does not feel this is 
a significant threat, even if true. 

Other notes: The ongoing struggle 
between the factions among the priests 
of Bane gives plenty of opportunity for 
adventures involving the machinations 
of Fzoul Chembryl, if not with the cleric 
himself. 

The Red Wizards of Thay, inasmuch 
as they have a united policy at all (see 
FR6, DREAMS OF THE RED WIZARDS), 
support Szchulan and his adherents. 
This is not so much because of a belief 
in his version of the message of Bane, 
but because that can weaken their 
rivals, the Zhentarim. 

Thus, the rivalry between Fzoul's fac 
tion and Szchulan's provides many 
opportunities for races to retrieve a 
special artifact before the other side 
gets it, rivalries with other (NPC) adven 
turer bands who have been hired by 
the other side, and involved confidence 
games where one side is played against 
the other while the characters actually 
work to deny both sides' goals. 

And, of course, if characters manage 
to foil several of either side's schemes, 
they gain an ongoing enemy who will 
employ anything in his arsenal, includ 
ing Zhentarim assassins, summoned 
monsters and demons, and even the 


armies of Zhentil Keep (or mercenary 
armies hired by Thay, depending on the 
side involved) to rid themselves of these 
meddlesome adventurers. 

One possible storyline would involve 
an agent of Fzoul offering the adventur 
ers a contract to retrieve an important 
item from some ruin or the treasure 
house of a rival of Zhentil Keep. When 
the adventurers retrieve the item, they 
find that Fzoul has decided to reward 
them by enlisting them forcibly into his 
own select forces, binding them with 
charm spells to insure their loyalty. 
From there, we have an adventure of 
escape, rescue, and eventual revenge. 

Cytodrze 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 56 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
19th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:12 1:18 W:14 D:15 C:15 CH:17 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Charm person x3. 

• Second-level - Invisibility 

• Third-level - Lightning bolt x2. 

• Fourth-level - Polymorph others x 
2, dimension door, transport (other 
notes below). 

• Fifth-level - Cloud kill, wall of 
iron, telekinesis, teleport. 

• Sixth-level - Death. 

• Seventh-level - Power word: stun, 
reverse gravity 

• Eighth-level - Trap the soul. 

• Ninth-level - Power word: kill. 

Physical description: Cyndre is 

always wrapped in a dark cloak. When 
he drops the deep hood of the cloak, he 
reveals blond, curly hair and a cherubic 
smile in a wide, almost-childlike, face. 
Under the cloak he wears a soft cotton 
gown embroidered in gold. He rarely 


66 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


expresses any negative emotions on his 
face; pursing his lips is a strong display 
of feeling. 

But his eyes are a pale blue - icy as 
death. 

Equipment: Ring of protection +2, 
ring of wizardry (doubles first- and 
second-level spells), staff of slinging, 
mirror of mental prowess, bracers of 
AC 5. 

Personality: Cyndre is always con 
trolled and diplomatic. His voice is 
always pleasant and conversational. 
Like a diplomat, he is always looking for 
an advantage for himself. 

Motivations: Cyndre desires to rule 
a large kingdom to prove to himself that 
the Red Wizards of Thay were wrong 
to ignore and disdain him. The Moon- 
shaes had a weak ruler and divided peo 
ples, but it is a large and rich land, 
ready for exploitation, just what he was 
seeking. 

Background notes: Cyndre came 
to the Moonshaes from Thay about the 
same time as described in FR2, MOON- 
SHAE. He did not get along with the 
zulkirs who rule Thay, and decided to 
carve out his own empire. The rela 
tively uncivilized Moonshaes seemed 
like an ideal target. 

The high king already had a Council 
of Sorcerers, an institution created by 
his father 30 years before. The current, 
and first, leader of the council was Cur- 
mavyss, a 15th-level magic-user born in 
the Isles who had studied under the 
wizards of Waterdeep. He had eight 
mages under him. 

Curmavyss welcomed Cyndre, who 
was already almost as powerful as he, 
and Cyndre's companion Alexei, into 
the council with some misgivings. How 
ever, he felt that magic-users of their 
accomplishments and background 
should not be allowed to run around 
loose. Curmavyss thought he could 
keep better control of the newcomers if 
they were part of the council. 

Within three years Curmavyss was 
dead, as were five other members of 
the council. Cyndre and Alexei subvert 
ed the other resident members and 
brought in some others, so that at the 


culmination of his attempt to finally 
control the Moonshaes, Cyndre had six 
like-minded magic-users at his call. 

In the meantime, Cyndre had struck 
up an alliance with the high priest of 
Bhaal, Hobarth. Each felt he was con 
trolling the actions of the other. Togeth 
er, they forged their master plan to 
conquer the Moonshaes from within. 

After he arranged for the death of 
Curmavyss and usurping the leader 
ship of the Council of Sorcerers, Cyn 
dre began his program of confrontation 
and extermination of the druids of 
Alaron. His first step was to enthrall 
High King Carrathal. Then the high 
king enrolled the ogres and outlaws 
Cyndre designated into his Scarlet 
Guard. With this force and his own 
magic behind him, Cyndre moved 
against the druids of Alaron. 

The druids could not move fast 
enough to stop him. In a few years, the 
sacred groves had been desecrated, and 
the druids of Alaron had been wiped 
out far more thoroughly by Cyndre 
than they'd ever been by Kazgaroth's 
machinations. 

In the meantime, his assassin, the 
half-ore Razfallow (seventh-level fight 
er, ninth-level thief), managed to eradi 
cate the royal families and principal 
druids of Moray and Snowdown. Slow 
ly, the kingdom of Cornell, which con 
tained the principal druid of the 
Moonshaes, was isolated from the rest 
of the Ffolk. Bhaal knew his avatar, 
Kazgaroth, sought the dominion of that 
home of the druidic religion, and want 
ed to be sure the druid leaders would 
have no friends left when the beast's 
attack came. Cyndre did not under 
stand these qualms, but humored his 
ally. 

When Tristan Kendrick and Robyn 
the druid defeated and destroyed 
Kazgaroth, Cyndre became the main 
instrument in Bhaal's attempt to punish 
the Moonshaes for the destruction of 
his avatar. 

In the meantime, he alienated his 
companion Alexei, who tried to warn 
him of the duplicity of Hobarth. This 
drove Alexei to the side of Tristan and 


Robyn, and Alexei's intervention helped 
finally bring Cyndre's schemes down 
around his ears. 

Other notes: 

Transport (aIToraT)on) 

Level: 4 

Components: V,S 
Range: 1" 

Casting Time: special 
Duration: Special 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

Area of Effect: 1 target. 

Explanation/description: The magic- 
user must prepare a cell for the target 
of the spell ahead of time, and do part of 
the spell then. This takes one full turn. 
The rest of the spell stays in his mind 
(taking up the space of one fourth-level 
spell) until used. When used, multicol 
ored streamers come from the hand 
and engulf the victim in one segment. 
The victim grows blurry and is ban 
ished to the pre-prepared cell. 

DarvT b of CdUmsbAM 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 44 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
lOth-Level Human Thief 
S:13 1:15 W:13 D:18 C:17 CH:14 

Thiefly skills: Pick pockets 90%, 
open locks 83%, find/remove traps 
70%, move silently 88%, hide in 
shadows 73%, hear noise 30%, climb 
walls 99%, read languages 50%. 

Physical description: Daryth is 
swarthy and quick, and his black eyes 
flash with humor and danger. He 
speaks heavily accented Common- 
speech and likes to wear a red cloak 
and, in dangerous situations, leather 


67 











































MINOR CHARACTERS 


armor. He has an excellent rapport with 
dogs. 

Equipment: Gloves of thievery and 
escape ; these are like gloves of thievery 
(see UNEARTHED ARCANA), but they 
also allow the user to escape from any 
bondange on his hands. No rope, shack 
le, or chain can bind his hands if he 
wishes to remove that bondage. This 
has no effect on the rest of his body, if 
that is bound, but a thief with his hands 
free is likely to escape any other bind 
ings in very little time. The gloves also 
contain an undetectable supply of 
wires and other lock-picking tools. 

Daryth also uses a silver scimitar with 
a leather hilt that he found in the same 
firbolg treasure hoard in which Tristan 
found the Sword of Cymrych Hugh. 

Personality: Daryth was deter 
minedly light and amusing, refusing to 
take anything seriously if he could help 
it. In battle or dangerous situations, he 
became quieter and more serious, but 
could still see the light side of a situation 
and had time to mock an enemy. 

Motivations: As a spy for the pasha 
of Calimshan, Daryth had no real moti 
vations except to please his teachers 
and superiors. Once he severed that 
relationship, he was totally rootless, 
and embarked on a journey partly to 
avoid the reprisals of the pasha and, 
really, just to see what he could see and 
find another place for himself. 

When he came to Corwell and met 
Tristan and Robyn, he initially found 
two good comrades. Then, as 
Kazgaroth's net began to tighten on 
Corwell, he found a cause in which he 
could believe, and he worked diligently 
for the good of the people of the Moon- 
shaes and his friends. He felt more than 
friendship for Robyn, but realized that 
her preference was for Tristan, what 
ever her actions toward him at any 
time. 

Background notes: Daryth was 
selected as a child to be a student in the 
pasha of Calimshan's Academy of 
Stealth, a school for spies. Every stu 
dent of the school is taught the usual 
thiefly skills as they apply to espionage, 
and is also trained in one other skill. 


cover. Daryth was trained as a dog 
trainer, learning the trade as trainer of 
the desert racers of Calimshan. 

However, he found himself in a dis 
pute with the pasha about rights to 
some property he acquired on a mis 
sion, and thought it prudent to take an 
extended, and unofficial, leave of 
absence. 

He embarked on a career as a sailor, 
but found that the ocean waves did not 
agree with him. After a stormy passage 
across the Sea of Swords, his ship 
docked at Corwell, and Daryth decided 
to find another career on dry land. 

His career as a thief was short-lived. 
His first victim in Corwell was Tristan 
Kendrick, prince of Corwell, who real 
ized he had been robbed immediately 
and chased Daryth down. In a fight 
with daggers they showed each other 
they were good fighters, and a bond 
sprung up between them, reinforced 
by Robyn's instant liking for Daryth. 

At Robyn's instigation, Tristan hired 
Daryth as his master of hounds, and 
Daryth then shared their adventures 
throughout the Moonshaes. He sur 
vived the fight against Kazgaroth 
(though he may have died in the final 
battle against that beast but for the 
intervention of the Goddess). He jour 
neyed to Alaron with Tristan and there 
fought High King Carrathal and the wiz 
ard Cyndre until both were slain, and 
Tristan was proclaimed the high king. 

When the three friends returned to 
Gwynneth to confront Hobarth, Daryth 
was separated from his companions 
and hunted down and slain by a displac 
er beast sent by Bhaal to help destroy 
Myrloch Vale. 

Other notes: At the time of events 
in FR2, MOONSHAE, Daryth is just fin 
ishing his training in espionage in the 
school of the pasha of Calimshan. Char 
acters in that nation at that time may 
have cause to run into this young, but 
very promising, secret agent and per 
haps rue the experience. If your cam 
paign is set later, in the time of 
DARKWALKER ON MOONSHAE, Dar 
yth can often be found in the company 
of his friend, Tristan, between the time 


of Kazgaroth's attempt to destroy Cor 
well and the conflict with Cyndre and 
Hobarth. They provide an entertaining 
confrontation in any of the taverns they 
haunt in Corwell or on the trail if they 
are out hunting with Tristan's hound, 
Canthus. 

If befriended, Daryth proves a true, if 
sometimes critical, friend. He also has 
an excellent memory for those who 
oppose him and, while he is willing to 
forget and forgive if given the opportu 
nity, he is not an opponent one should 
continue harassing. 

Daryth is a swordsman and dagger 
man. He has some ability with sling and 
short bow, but would rather show off 
his skill with melee weapons. 

DeK)d\?bAR 

ARMOR CLASS: 7 
MOVE: 6" 

Hit Points: 22 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: M (5'7") 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
llth-Level Human Magic-User 

Second-Level Cleric 
S:9 1:17 W:15 D:10 C:8 CH:9 

By all appearances, Dendybar, the 
mottled wizard of Luskan's Hosttower 
of the Arcane, seems a weakly man, too 
frail to be of any threat. Yet there is a 
magical strength about this wizard that 
more than compensates for his physical 
frailties. His movements slow and delib 
erate, his voice a passionless monotone, 
and his hollowed face buried beneath 
the shadows of his robe's cowl, Dendy 
bar creeps along from dark corner to 
dark corner, trusting no one and always 
ready with some form of magical 
attack. 

He is a small man, barely weighing 
100 pounds, and he seems to be no 
more than withered skin stretched 
over bones to anyone who has seen him 


68 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


without his robes. His eyes look out 
from within the cowl, a penetrating and 
dangerous glare, darker spots in deep 
and dark sockets. The few tufts of 
white hair he has left cling stubbornly 
in scraggly patches. 

Perhaps as compensation for his 
physical inadequacies, Dendybar nor 
mally keeps several powerful offensive 
spells at his disposal, and most others 
he memorizes from day to day, wheth 
er he expects to leave the Hosttower or 
not, are designed to get him away from 
dangerous situations. The exceptions 
are those days when Dendybar plans to 
summon an otherworldly being, usu 
ally a demon. Then his repertoire is 
dedicated almost exclusively to spells 
pertaining to the situation (protection 
from evil and dolor, for example). On an 
average day, though, Dendybar typi 
cally would be armed with the follow 
ing spells: 

• First-level - Charm person, magic 
missile, run. 

• Second-level - Invisibility, ESP 
web darkness 15' radius. 

• Third-level - Protection from nor 
mal missiles, lightning bolt, wind 
wall, hold person. 

• Fourth-level - Dimension door, 
wall of fire, Leomund's secure shel 
ter. 

• Fifth-level - Cone of cold, teleport, 
passwall. 

In addition to this considerable reper 
toire, Dendybar wields several magic 
items, including a staff of power and a 
ring of protection +3. His mottled robe 
is really a robe of eyes, and just because 
he likes the chaos of rampant fire, he 
has fashioned a wand of fireballs, com 
plete with a holster, for his belt. While 
Sydney is his present apprentice, Den 
dybar puts his full faith only in Bok, a 
flesh golem of incredible strength that 
he created as a defense against his fel 
low wizards. 

For one so adept at the black arts, 
Dendybar started his career, not as a 
mage, but as a cleric serving Myrkul, 
the lord of bones. He switched profes 
sions in an attempt to better serve 
Myrkul, but has retained several 


powers from his former days. 

"The hood that constantly shadows 
Dendybar's features hides a face that is 
little more than a skin-covered skull, 
Myrkul's mark upon his most loyal ser 
vant. 

"In addition to his magic spells, Den 
dybar may animate ld6 skeletons or 
ld3 zombies each round of combat, so 
long as bodies are available." 

- from Tire Savage Frontier 
by Paul Jaquays 

The mottled wizard takes great care 
to keep his religion private, even to his 
closest confidants, understanding the 
mistrust that would naturally arise 
against someone serving such a god. 

No one knows Dendybar's actual age, 
but he seems to have found a limbo 
state concerning aging, caught some 
where between life and death. Rumors 
say that, like Arklem Greeth, the arch 
mage of the Hosttower of the Arcane, 
Dendybar seeks lichdom, an undead 
state where his magic and sheer will 
power alone sustain him. 

Perhaps to find that end, or maybe 
simply in his never-ending hunt for 
greater power, Dendybar has become 
obsessed with possessing the Crystal 
Shard, the mighty relic of unspeakable 
evil forged in a past age. Dendybar 
knows little about the specifics of the 
artifact, but realizes that the Crystal 
Shard brought Akar Kessell, a bum 
bling, inept apprentice to the verge of 
conquering the Far North. What might 
it do in the hands of a true wizard? 

And the quest for power is at the core 
of Dendybar's every action. Now serv 
ing as the master of the North Spire, 
one of the four wizards closest in suc 
cession to Greeth's throne, Dendybar 
gained his title by arranging the mur 
der of the former occupant of the post. 

And he knows no loyalty whatsoever. 
Eldeluc, the budding wizard who was 
in on the conspiracy, has been targeted 
as the mottled wizard's next victim sim 
ply because Dendybar resents the oth 
er mage's fast climb through the lower 
ranks. Eldeluc was once Dendybar's 


apprentice and was undyingly loyal. 
But now he watches over his shoulder 
for the strike he knows will eventually 
come. 

And he shakes his head whenever he 
sees Sydney, Dendybar's apprentice, 
for he wonders how long it will be 
before Dendybar aims his foul temper 
at her. 

Roleplaying tips: Dendybar says 
little, but hears everything that is being 
said around him, and always views the 
words of others in the most negative 
light. He will pursue any road or join 
any group that promises him a substan 
tial gain in power, but otherwise has no 
desire to leave his small laboratory in 
the Hosttower. Normally, he sends Syd 
ney out to do his work. 

But even if an adventure is successful 
in bringing Dendybar all that he hoped 
it would, he is not likely to look favor 
ably upon his fellow adventurers. Any 
one who has witnessed his gains, he 
reasons in his perverted view of the 
world, serves as a potential threat to 
those gains. 

And, in the true spirit of Myrkul, 
must be eliminated! 

DlmsuoATit 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 19 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1FL) DAMAGE/ 
ATTACK: By weapon type or spell 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Magic-User 
S:12 1:17 W:16 Dll C:13 CH:14 

Non-weapon proficiencies: 

Reading/writing, etiquette, fungus 
identification, healing, plant lore. 

Commonly used spells: Read 
magic, dispel magic, identify, message, 
ESP locate object, deep pockets. 

Since retiring from adventuring, 
Dimswart generally can be found in his 


69 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


beautiful home in the countryside 
north of Suzail. He lives in Manor 
Dimswart with his wife, Leona, and a 
large number of servants. At one time, 
the sage's five daughters lived at Manor 
Dimswart as well, but his youngest 
daughter, the last to be married, was 
recently wed to a Wyvernspur noble 
man. Now it is only on holidays and spe 
cial occasions that Dimswart's studies 
are interrupted by children. 

The "Sage of Suzail," as Dimswart is 
known, is a short, good-natured, likable 
man. Though he is getting stout as he 
approaches middle age, he is quick 
witted. He has taken his retirement 
from adventuring with the King's Men, 
a Cormyrian adventuring company, 
quite well. Though his hair is now 
almost totally gray, Dimswart's blue 
eyes still sparkle whenever he gets the 
chance to demonstrate his ready intelli 
gence and wit. 

Dimswart has sage knowledge of 
herbs and minor knowledge of magical 
items. The sage is far more interested in 
plants these days than in magic, how 
ever, and he can often be found rooting 
around the countryside in Suzail, look 
ing for some rare species of herb or 
plant. 

Another of the sage's great loves is 
gossip, or "public information," as he 
calls it. Though never a gossip-monger 
himself, Dimswart keeps track of any 
rumor circulating through Suzail. He is 
an excellent source of information on 
not only Suzail, but all of Cormyr and 
the lands nearby. When not pursuing 
his studies of flora, Dimswart will be 
found in local taverns or inns, usually in 
the company of his old friend Winefid- 
dle, drinking and listening to the latest 
story about whatever anyone is 
inclined to discuss. 

Dimswart is such a good source of 
information, he is an unofficial 
reporter for King Azoun IV Dimswart 
and Azoun are old friends, and it is 
even rumored that Azoun occasionally 
adventured as a young cavalier with the 
King's Men. Neither Dimswart nor 
Azoun have ever admitted that ever 
occurred. 


The Sage of Suzail generally uses his 
magical abilities to further his studies. 
In fact, Dimswart's life is devoted 
almost entirely to the pursuit of knowl 
edge now that his daughters are all 
married and he and Leona can live at 
Manor Dimswart in peace. 

Dimswart will always entertain par 
ties of adventurers, however. The sage 
finds that traveling companies are an 
excellent source of information on far- 
flung parts of the Realms. In exchange 
for any information, adventurers can 
expect to pay with information and an 
exchange of services. And Dimswart is 
never lacking a task suitable for a party 
of adventurers. 

Such was the case when the swords- 
woman Alias sought Dimswart's assist 
ance with the mysterious azure sigils 
embedded in her sword arm. In 
exchange for his help, the sage sent Ali 
as, Dragonbait, her saurial companion, 
and Akabar Bel Akash, to rescue Olive 
Ruskettle from the red dragon, Mis- 
tinarperadnacles. Olive had been trav 
eling to Manor Dimswart to play at a 
wedding when she was abducted by 
the dragon. 

Before the Sage of Suzail dispenses 
any information, he will try to impress 
the adventurers with a demonstration 
of his powers of reasoning. Before the 
party has a chance to introduce itself or 
explain its purpose in seeking 
Dimswart, the sage will rattle off as 
much information as he can about the 
company. He can gather a great deal 
about a party simply from their 
accents, visible scars, clothing, and the 
like, but he also has likely heard of the 
adventurers through rumor and story. 
Dimswart can usually surprise even the 
most traveled adventurer with the 
amount of knowledge he has about 
them, if they have traveled anywhere 
near Cormyr. 

Players encountering Dimswart will 
find him a very friendly, helpful man. 
Unlike other sages of greater power 
and renown, like Elminster, Dimswart 
is very accessible. And though he may 
not be able to answer every question, 
his knowledge of Cormyr and the lands 


nearby should make him a valuable 
source in any campaign. 

When encountered in Suzail, 
Dimswart will often be found in the 
company of Curate Winefiddle. 

W)wef)d<ble 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 21 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fourth-Level Human Cleric 
S:ll 1:13 W:16 D:ll C:14 CH:13 

Weapons proficiencies: mace. 

Non-weapon proficiencies: 

Reading/writing, etiquette, fishing. 

Winefiddle is a curate in the Towers 
of Good Fortune, a huge temple to 
Tymora, in Suzail. The cleric retired to 
the temple after his adventuring com 
pany, the King's Men, disbanded several 
years ago. 

Life in the temple has been very good 
for Winefiddle, and he has grown quite 
fat in the years since his retirement 
from adventuring. His brown hair is 
thinning, but like his companion 
Dimswart, his brown eyes still reflect 
an active, happy soul. 

In fact, Winefiddle has found life in 
the temple in all ways superior to his 
time as an adventurer. In addition to 
being allowed to focus his attention on 
his duties as a cleric, and his favorite 
hobbies - relaxation and drinking - 
Winefiddle has found that the closest 
he has to come to monsters is in treat 
ing the victims of their attacks. 

The curate is a compassionate, caring 
man, however, and is very concerned 
about the well-being of those for whom 
he cares. When encountered, 
Dimswart will be very interested in aid 
ing adventurers in any way he can, as 


70 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


long as he is not put in any danger. 

Dutzkiaki the 

WAtodeizeri of 

Watefcdeep 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 72 + 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 + 8 (battle-ax 
+2, gauntlets of ogre power) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
12th-Level Human Fighter 
S:15 1:13 W:14 D:16 C:15 CH:14 

Physical description: Durnan is 
an older man, still broad-shouldered 
and lively in step. His brunet hair is 
spotted with gray, and he is starting to 
bald. His usual garb consists of a bright 
ly colored tunic and darker trews worn 
tucked into his fighting boots ("I've nev 
er known a more comfortable pair of 
boots.") 

Equipment: In combat, Durnan 
uses a battle-ax +2, a dagger +1, wears 
elfin chain mail +3, and carries a shield 
+2. He also has gauntlets of ogre 
power, and a ring of spell turning. 
When he is not expecting combat, he 
wears the ring, and carries the dagger, 
a normal long sword, and wears his elf 
in chain mail +3 under his clothes. He 
always wears his boots of striding and 
springing. 

Personality: Durnan is close 
mouthed and prudent. Though he 
shouts in battle, Durnan does not get 
into arguments. He would rather 
retreat into silence than argue. If he 
does not want to answer a question, he 
simply looks at the questioner with a 
calm, expressionless face and says noth 
ing. 

In general, he is affable but not talka 
tive. When he greets guests at his inn, 
he welcomes them simply and shows 


them to a table or gets their drinks of 
choice, but does not engage in idle chat 
ter or hyperbole about the virtues of his 
food or vintages. He always has a quiet 
smile for regular customers and old 
friends. 

In conference with the other Lords of 
Waterdeep, Durnan lets the others 
speak and then, if he has anything to 
add, speaks quietly and to the point. 

Motivations: Durnan hates unfair 
ness and injustice, but is tolerant of the 
differing interests of others. As a Lord 
of Waterdeep, he tries to maintain the 
atmosphere of tolerance and fairness 
for which the city is known. 

Durnan's tolerance does not extend 
to most of the goblinoid races. Goblins, 
kobolds, gnolls, ores, and half-ores are 
given little service and no acceptance at 
his tavern. He especially hates hobgob 
lins, for reasons unknown, because he 
refuses to talk about them. 

Background notes: Friends specu 
late that Durnan's family was slain by 
hobgoblins when he was still a youth, 
but this is not confirmed. He was a lone 
ly adventurer who traveled the North 
extensively, moving from one adventur 
ing band to another before he met Mirt 
(see below), with whom he became fast 
friends. 

When he decided to "retire" to Water- 
deep - actually he was just accompany 
ing Mirt because he did not want to 
adventure if Mirt was not - he was 
asked by Mirt and Khelben to become 
one of the Lords of Waterdeep. He pro 
vides one of the "voices of sanity" 
among the Lords, reining in the enthu 
siasms of the more fanatically Lawful 
Good among the members. 

As a method of advancing the goals of 
the Lords with less regard for the 
"means" espoused by Piergeiron and 
Texter, he became "The One," the leader 
of the Red Sashes - an organization 
that thinks it is in opposition to the tyr 
anny of the Lords of Waterdeep, but 
actually works to provide for the good 
of the city by capturing those the law 
cannot or refuses to touch, and freeing 
those who are imprisoned unjustly, 
despite the demands of the law. In 


short, Durnan uses this organization to 
take care of pragmatic missions to 
which the paladins among the Lords 
would never agree. 

Moreover, the Red Sashes are theoret 
ically an independent organization will 
ing to work for anyone, and thus are 
often contacted by other organizations 
to work "against" the Lords, giving 
Durnan a good grasp of the menaces to 
the city and the Lords. 

Other notes: Durnan is the proprie 
tor of the Yawning Portal inn in Water- 
deep. This inn contains a well-like shaft 
leading down into the Undermountain, 
the subterranean ways under Water- 
deep. As such, he can be the person to 
whom to talk about a mission to the 
Undermountain. Many adventurers 
have used this shaft as the first step of 
their exploration of the Undermoun 
tain. Some of them have even returned 
up the shaft. Others have come from 
other exits. Many have just not 
returned. 

Durnan's connections with the Red 
Sashes and the Lords can frequently 
involve him with the characters' activi 
ties in Waterdeep. Also, the Red Sashes 
do not operate outside of Waterdeep, so 
Durnan might enlist the aid of the char 
acters for a mission outside of the city 
that can benefit the Red Sashes, either 
by freeing or capturing some individual 
who is in need, or simply bringing in 
some wealth to help support the Red 
Sashes' expenses. 

Suggested adventures: Some 
monster from the deeps wanders into 
Undermountain and then wanders up 
the shaft and attacks the Yawning Por 
tal as the characters are having their 
evening meal. The characters deal with 
the monster, then accompany Durnan 
down the shaft to find out where the 
monster came from and to stop further 
incursions. 

Durnan is, hopefully, impressed with 
the characters and keeps them in mind. 
Then, he has a mission for the Red Sash 
es within the city - the daughter of one 
of the magisters has been kidnapped to 
influence his decisions concerning the 
son of one of he noble families. The 


71 













































MINOR CHARACTERS 


characters must get the girl out. If they 
are successful, Durnan considers them 
for other missions outside the city. 

ArT emls ExiTr&r) 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 (-5) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 80 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Assassination 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Never surprised 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (5'4') 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Fighter 

llth-Level Assassin 
S:13 1:16 W:15 D:17 C:15 CH:14 

Artemis Entreri, the prime assassin, is 
possibly the most deadly killer in all the 
Forgotten Realms. While not a big man, 
barely 125 pounds, his abilities to dance 
his sabre through the defenses of any 
opponent horrifies onlookers and 
leaves his victim gaping in disbelief as 
the last breaths flow from his body. 

There is a strength about the man 
that defies physical abilities, an inner 
promise of death that gives him the 
upper hand in most encounters. Intimi 
dated opponents do not usually per 
form to the best of their abilities. 

Entreri's build and movements are 
similar to those of Drizzt Do'Urden, 
though the assassin is slightly heavier 
than the drow ranger. Together, they 
appear almost as negatives of each oth 
er; Entreri's skin, accustomed to light 
less nights and shadows, is milky white 
to Drizzt's black; his hair is jet black to 
the drow's stark white; and his eyes 
dark and sinister to the sparkling and 
life-filled orbs of Drizzt. 

The stark contrast between the two is 
even more evident in their emotional 
makeup. Drizzt is a passionate lover of 
life and peace, a warrior who gains his 
strength through his emotional dedica 
tion to his cause. Entreri is passionless, 
and would consider the drow's gener 
ous nature a weakness, a fatal flaw, not 


to be tolerated by a true fighter. 

" Catti-brie had seen this before, the 
trademark methods of the finest 
swordsman in all of Icewind Dale. The 
comparison to Drizzt Do'Urden was 
inescapable; their grace and move 
ments were so alike, with every part of 
their bodies working in harmonious 
accord. Yet they remained strikingly 
different, a polarity of morals that sub 
tly altered the aura of the dance. 

"Tire drow ranger in battle was an 
instrument of beauty to behold, a per 
fect athlete pursuing his chosen course 
of righteousness with unsurpassed fer 
vor But Entreri was merely horrifying, 
a passionless murderer callously dis 
posing of obstacles in his path." 

- from Streams of Silver 

So they achieve similar results despite 
their paradoxical views of life. 

Entreri is every bit the equal of Drizzt 
in battle, even fighting with two weap 
ons, a jewelled dagger and a cruel- 
edged sabre. His overall dexterity is 17, 
but his eye-hand coordination is near 
perfect, and he suffers no "to hit" penal 
ties when fighting two-handed. 

Furthermore, as if he wasn't deadly 
enough of his own accord, the assassin 
has outfitted himself with powerful 
magic items over the years. His sabre is 
a +1 sword of wounding and his jewel 
led dagger, his most prized possession, 
a +4 defender. He wears only leather 
armor and no shield, but his black cape 
is actually a +4 cloak of protection, and 
the ring identifying him as a member of 
Pook's guild, a +2 ring of protection. 

Even without all the magic, though, 
Entreri's background and unwavering 
devotion to perfection make him formi 
dable. Like Regis, he grew up on the 
streets of Calimport, the bastard son of 
a prostitute, alone and depending upon 
his own resources for survival. His tac 
tics, though, were much different from 
the subtle cons and coercions of the 
halfling. In the dark alleys of the city, 
Entreri learned the worth of a well- 
placed dagger. 

And barely a teenager, an age when 


most aspiring heroes are learning their 
very first parries with a sword, Entreri 
was already hiring himself out as a mer 
cenary soldier whenever and wherever 
he could find the work. His reputation 
as a silent and deadly killer, as well as an 
incredible swordsman, leaked out 
through the underground of the city 
and caught the attention of Pasha Pook, 
guildmaster of a powerful thieves' 
organization. 

Noted for his ability to surround him 
self with the very best henchmen, it 
didn't take Pook long to understand the 
unlimited potential of the young man. 
Accepting Pook's offer to join the guild, 
Entreri studied under many of the fin 
est thieves in all the Realms, and com 
bining his already considerable 
weapons' proficiency with the lessons, 
he has become doubly deadly, a pure 
assassin. 

He still serves Pook - his present mis 
sion is to hunt down Regis and recover 
the ruby pendant - but only because 
he views his association with the 
thieves as in his best interests. In truth, 
Artemis Entreri gives his allegiance to 
no one, and has no loyalties beyond 
what is best at any given moment for 
him in his perverted pursuit to become 
the ultimate killer, in his view, the ulti 
mate victor in a world of unending con 
flict. 

Roleplaying tips: In his absolute 
confidence, Entreri exudes an aura of 
strength that intimidates most of the 
people who meet him. The way he 
holds himself, the way he walks, the set 
of his jaw, would give a PC the distinct 
impression that Entreri could kill him at 
any time, even if the character was of 
equal or higher level than the assassin. 
And this calm confidence and unshak 
able composure keeps Entreri at his 
sharpest, at all times. 

He is reserved and observant, speak 
ing little and weighing every single 
word carefully before uttering it. He is 
so perceptive that rumors say he has 
the power to read minds. This is not 
true, but Entreri can take a full mea 
sure of a person in a single meeting, and 
understands the motivations of the 


72 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


world around him well enough to fig 
ure out what course the person will 
likely take. In game terms, treat the 
assassin with a degree of omniscience. 
He will always be a step or two ahead of 
the others, anticipating, waiting, and is 
so alert to his surroundings that he is 
never surprised. 

It is imperative to keep in mind that 
Entreri is not a wanton killer. He simply 
follows the most logical course to 
achieve his present mission, be it hunt 
ing Regis or acquiring some magic item 
that may have caught his eye. 

But if someone were to happen to get 
in his way ... 

Rwellew 

ARMOR CLASS: 0 
MOVE: 9" 

Hit Points: 90 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 + 1 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (4') 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Ninth-Level Dwarf Fighter 
S:17 1:15 W:13 D:17 C:19 CH:14 

Physical description: Finellen is a 
female dwarf, around 400 years old. 
She stands about 4' high and has a fine 
bristling blonde beard that drops past 
her beltline and an unruly mass of hair 
atop her rounded head. Like most 
dwarves, Finellen has a stocky body, 
short legs, long arms, broad and sturdy 
shoulders, and surprisingly large feet. 
Between her beard and body type, it is 
difficult to tell that she is female until 
you hear her voice, which is equivalent 
to a human woman's contralto. 

Equipment: When traveling or 
scouting the actions of firbolgs, Finellen 
wears leather armor and carries a 
battle-ax and dagger. If she knows she is 
going into combat, she wears darkened 
plate mail armor and uses a short- 
hafted battle-ax two-handed. She 
always carries a long dagger, which she 
wields with great effect. 


Personality: Finellen is gruff and 
aggressive and prickly about comments 
concerning her size and beard. To her 
mind, the only good defense is a strong 
offense, and she values good fighters of 
any breed. 

Motivations: Her main motivation 
is the protection of the dwarven race. 
She has little inclination to mix in the 
affairs of humans, though she likes the 
opportunities to fight that her associa 
tion with Tristan Kendrick provides. 
Mostly she feels that "if you see a 
human coming - you see trouble com 
ing." 

Background notes: Finellen lived 
as any other dwarf for 300 years, min 
ing, guarding the tribe, and killing 
duergar and firbolgs. When the firbolgs 
started mining coal and taking to the 
valley floor of Myrloch Vale, Finellen 
was sent to discover why they were 
doing this entirely uncharacteristic 
activity. However, she was captured. 

Shortly thereafter, the population of 
her cell was doubled with the addition 
of the bard Keren. Weeks passed, then 
the two prisoners were freed by Prince 
Tristan Kendrick and his friends, who 
had come seeking Keren. 

Finellen fought beside her new 
friends duing the escape, then left 
them, refusing to have anything more 
to do with humans and their problems. 
However, when she got back to her 
caves, she discovered that the firbolgs 
were aggravating the dwarves, and the 
dwarves had decided to take action 
after all. 

Leading a force of 50 dwarves, Finel 
len found her new battle comrades 
again as they were about to meet Grun- 
narch's Northmen and the remains of 
the firbolgs who had imprisoned her 
before. The dwarves helped the 
humans defeat the raiders and let the 
Ffolk refugees get through to western 
Corwell. Then they aided the humans 
in the defense of Caer Corwell, saving 
the day on at least two occasions, at 
great loss of dwarven life. 

Sometime afterward, Finellen was 
given another force of dwarves and 
sent to track down incursions of the 


duergar to the east. The dwarves 
marched through deep caverns and 
came up in Alaron Isle. They found the 
duergar in greater than expected 
strength and helped Tristan and his 
comrades escape the dungeons of the 
high king. Then they went on to fight 
duergar. 

Eventually, they were driven above 
ground by the overwhelming numbers 
of the duergar, and once again merged 
forces with Tristan and his rebels. They 
played a strong role in the final battle 
that slew Cyndre and routed the zom 
bies, sahuagin, duergar, and king's Scar 
let Guard. Finellen was one of those 
who cheered loudest when Tristan was 
proclaimed high king of the Moon- 
shaes. 

Then she and her remaining dwarven 
soldiers returned to the underworld to 
continue the fight against the now- 
depleted duergar and were not seen in 
the final battle against Hobarth and 
Bhaal. 

Other notes: Finellen is adventur 
ous for a dwarf, and probably the most 
likely to discover the problems of the 
dwarves of Norland, who are losing a 
war of extinction with the frost giants 
of the Jotunspine Mountains. 

Since there are no dwarven caverns 
connecting Gwynneth and Norland (as 
there are between Gwynneth and 
Alaron), she might be a handy NPC to 
use to recruit an adventuring band to 
help her fellow dwarves of Norland. 

The adventurers she would want 
would be dwarves, but her compatriots 
in Myrloch Vale are not interested in 
such a long trek in a human-built boat. 
If she can't find outlander dwarves, she 
has sufficient worldliness to enlist 
humans and even, perhaps, elves. 

Finellen is a scrapper. Given any sort 
of weapon, she will tangle with oppo 
nents six times her size without a sec 
ond thought. With her advanced age 
and experience outside the dwarven 
people, she finds herself more and 
more in positions of authority among 
her people. When it is time to send out 
an expeditionary force, the dwarven 
king singles out Finellen and dwarven 


73 
















































warriors clamor to serve under her. 
This both gratifies and chafes her. She 
prefers the freedom of charging head 
long into a foe, but has too much of a 
sense of responsibility to lead her fol 
lowers in helpless charges. So she 
hangs back, directs her forces, and only 
joins the front line when they are com 
mitted and they need her ax more than 
they need her direction. She much pre 
fers acting as an independent scout or 
emissary. 

FLuRmasTyrc. of 
WaTe^eep 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 33 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
llth-Level Human Magic-User 
S:10 1:18 W:13 D:16 014 CH:16 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Detect magic, identify, 
read magic, write. 

• Second-level - Continual light, 
locate object, preserve. 

• Third-level - Material, protection 
from evil 10' radius. 

• Fourth-level - Plant growth, 
remove curse. 

• Fifth-level - Fabricate, extension 
II. 

Physical description: Kappiyan is 
a distinguished looking, tall, thin, white- 
bearded wizard. He is always wearing a 
gray robe that is never stained or dirty, 
despite Kappiyan's usual activities. 

Equipment: Kappiyan always 

wears a gray robe of the arch-magi, a 
ring of wizardry (first-level spells), and 
a ring of protection +1. His house, 
which he rarely leaves, always has 
many potions, which he makes. There 
are a homonculous and many magical 


guardian creatures in his house. 

At least once a year, the city watch is 
called in to remove some thief who 
thought to rob the helpless old man of 
his potions. Frequently after such an 
event, Kappiyan is seen visiting the pur 
veyors of exotic creatures and magical 
traps for additions to his defenses. 

Personality: Kappiyan is affable to 
other magic-users who want to consult 
with him about potions. He will also sell 
potions (using the prices shown in the 
DMG), but he becomes testy if contin 
ually asked for potions. "I am not run 
ning a potion shop," is his usual 
response when asked too often. 

Characters coming to Kappiyan for 
potions undergo rigorous quizzing 
about how the potion is planned to be 
used. Purchasers are also asked to give 
an account later about the efficacy of 
the potion. Those who do not supply 
such a report or give inadequate 
reports are less likely to be sold future 
potions. 

Also, Kappiyan had many years of 
experience as an adventurer before 
retiring to his current researches. He 
has a good eye for what is possible for a 
group, and will refuse potions to people 
he does not feel will use them properly. 

Kappiyan sometimes provides free 
potions for a good cause, and has been 
called on by the Lords of Waterdeep for 
such upon occasion. However, he is just 
as testy toward the mighty Lords as he 
is toward beginning adventurers. 

Motivations: Nowadays, Kappiyan 
is primarily interested in research, 
which he finances by selling potions. He 
is always interested in trying new ver 
sions of established potions in an 
attempt to extend their longevity, or 
change the effects slightly. He is never 
satisfied with the current version of 
any potion. There must be some way to 
improve it. 

Background notes: Kappiyan 
came to Waterdeep from the South. He 
is believed to have originally lived in 
Cormyr, and left after a philosophical 
dispute with Vangerdahast. (This story 
comes from merchants from the 
Dragon Sea area who learned that Kap 


piyan lived in Waterdeep and told the 
story.) This has never been confirmed 
by Kappiyan, who occasionally lets slip 
references to the Dragon Sea area, but 
does not otherwise talk about his pre 
vious life. 

However, it is obvious that, before 
coming to Waterdeep, he did adventure 
extensively. He knows very little about 
the conditions of the North, so his 
adventuring must have taken place in 
the Southern Realms. 

Currently Kappiyan lives in Water- 
deep on Anchoret's Court among the 
honest, if poor, working men of Water- 
deep. He has lived there for more than 
50 years, always looking much the 
same as he does today. His house is a 
former "grand residence" (see FR1, 
WATERDEEP AND THE NORTH), but 
every room in this palatial establish 
ment, built when the Southern Ward 
was a bit higher class than it is now, is 
full of alchemical equipment. The great 
room has been turned into a zoo full of 
exotic animals that supply components 
for the various potions, most of the bed 
rooms are full of shelves of potion 
ingredients or scrolls and books that list 
esoteric formulations. 

There are three servants, one of 
whose sole duty is maintenance of the 
animals, one of whom is both cook and 
cleaner, and one of whom is a supply 
clerk who maintains the other alchemy 
supplies. At this time, Kappiyan has no 
apprentices, though he has had some in 
the past. One of these (the most recent) 
died while trying one of Kappiyan's var 
iant potions. 

Other notes: PCs intent on robbing 
him should leave many of their fellows 
behind, fallen to his defenses. He is 
known to employ both traps and 
strange monsters in the defense of his 
house. Questioning former servants 
reveals that a new servant must spend a 
month learning the traps and getting 
acquainted with the monsters before 
he can be allowed to work alone in the 
house. The traps are changed every 
couple of years, and the monsters fre 
quently die and are replaced. 

When characters request potions 


74 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


from Kappiyan, the old mage will usu 
ally suggest they try one of his new 
potions, as he is always trying to simu 
late the effect of other magical items, 
such as gauntlets of ogre power or a 
ring of spell turning. He also tries to cre 
ate potions that allow the user to cast a 
magic-user spell. He offers any of these 
potions at a nominal price. 

These potions have a variable chance 
of actually working. DMs should adjust 
the chance of working to meet the situ 
ation, in the spirit of adventure litera 
ture. 

GnutotoAizch the Red 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 9" 

Hit Points: 90 
NO, OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 + 1 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
14th-Level Human Fighter 
S:16 1:15 W:14 D:17 C:16 CH:18 

Physical description: Grun- 
narch's head is framed by flowing red 
hair and beard. He stands only average 
height, but seems much larger. There is 
an undefinable quality to the way he 
moves and talks that communicates his 
authority. 

Equipment: Grunnarch uses a 
battle-ax one-handed, warding off 
blows with a shield in the other hand. 
He wears chain mail, giving him a good 
armor class when combined with his 
high Dexterity. 

Personality: Grunnarch rules his 
people with an iron hand, but he is 
loved by his followers for his concern 
for their welfare and ready smile and 
wit. 

There are stronger men among his 
followers, but his people realize that in 
Grunnarch they not only have a good 
war and raiding fighter, but a wise lead 
er. 


Motivations: Grunnarch is a proto 
typical Northman. His greatest joy is 
combat, and his second greatest joy is 
being on the sea in a long ship, on his 
way to a combat. However, he got his 
fill of slaughter when following the 
leadership of the disguised Kazgaroth, 
and is somewhat more temperate in his 
appetite for action now. Whether this 
attitude will continue is impossible to 
say. 

Grunnarch likes a fight against a wor 
thy foe. General slaughter can nauseate 
him. Fighting natural foes like beasts 
and weather eventually drags him 
down. 

In general, Grunnarch is a gambling 
man, and fearless against normal foes. 
However, he knows when he must flee 
before a superior foe, and keeps the 
well-being of his people uppermost in 
his mind. Of course, for a great deal of 
his reign, the well-being of his fighting 
followers involved getting them into 
raids and fights at every opportunity. 
He did not have to worry about retalia 
tion against his women and children 
because the Ffolk did not fight that way. 

But when he realized that the alliance 
of Bhaal's priest and the sahuagin was a 
threat to all residents of the Moon- 
shaes, he understood the benefits an 
alliance with the Ffolk, and he and Tris 
tan forged the first united government 
of the Moonshaes since the Northmen 
first arrived so many hundreds of years 
ago. 

Background notes: Grunnarch is 
the king of Norland, the westernmost 
kingdom of the Northmen in the Moon 
shaes. Norland is one large island with a 
wide expanse of pine forest and lakes 
protected from the storms of the Track 
less Sea by the Jotunhammer Mountain 
range. 

Grunnarch rules a dozen lesser kings 
whose domains make up the settled 
portions of Norland along the eastern 
coast of that island. 

After gaining his kingship, Grun 
narch consolidated his rule and gained 
a reputation as the second greatest of 
the kings of the Northmen in the Moon 
shaes. 


At the peak of his power, Grunnarch 
joined with his fellow Northman kings 
to attempt to ravage Corwell. The king 
of Oman, Thelgar Ironhand, assembled 
all the the Northmen and used them in a 
master plan to utterly destroy the king 
dom of Corwell. What none of the 
Northmen realized was that Thelgar 
Ironhand was dead, and his body taken 
over by Kazgaroth. 

By the time Kazgaroth finally 
revealed himself in the heat of the final 
stages of the siege of Caer Corwell, 
Grunnarch was the only one of the 
Northman kings still alive. He led his 
panicked, routed forces from the scene 
and is now the main leader of the 
Northmen of the Moonshaes. 

With his onetime opponent, Tristan, 
the high king of the Ffolk of the Moon 
shaes, Grunnarch forged the Moon 
shaes into a unified nation, with 
Northmen and Ffolk working together 
toward a new glory for the islands. 

Other notes: DMs running a Moon- 
shae Isles campaign can use Grunnarch 
as the leader for any Northmen encoun 
ter, as Grunnarch spends as much time 
as he can away from his duties and on 
the seas in his long ship. Until the time 
of the events of DARKWALKER ON 
MOONSHAE, Grunnarch also led the 
only cavalry force among the 
Northmen, a select group of 100 horse 
men called the Bloodriders. These were 
taken over by Kazgaroth and their 
game statistics can be found in the 
write-up for that monster. 

If player character dwarves have 
learned about the beleagured dwarves 
in the Jotunhammer Mountains (see 
FR2, MOONSHAE), Grunnarch is the 
man with whom they will have to deal 
to get safe conduct into the mountains 
to try to save their kinsmen. However, 
considering the tolerant relationship 
between the Northmen and the frost 
giants who are oppressing the dwarves, 
getting that safe conduct may be very 
difficult. 

The Northmen propitiate the frost 
giants with gifts and leave them strictly 
alone. They are not interested in having 
adventurers interfere with this peace- 


75 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


ful arrangement. 

Grunnarch learned his battlefield 
skills by raiding the Ffolk, who tend to 
fight in a clear field in one line. Thus, 
his best position as a leader is in the 
front rank, where he can act as an inspi 
ration to his men and strike the most 
blows. However, the raid led by 
Kazgaroth in Thelgar's body and the 
siege of Caer Corwell taught him some 
more lessons in military tactics, and he 
is less likely to lead his men headlong 
into a charge now. He watches the ter 
rain and uses his troops as cleverly as 
one can use a gang of semi-berserkers. 

MaicboR HaRpeli 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 52 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6'1") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
18th-Level Magic-User 
S:14 1:18 W:15 D:14 C:15 CH:18 

The most powerful of the magic 
using Harpell family of Longsaddle, 
Malchor Harpell is also the only one 
who has ever ventured out from 
Longsaddle for any length of time. He is 
a true thinker, a lover of the secrets of 
the universe, and combines that with 
an adventuresome spirit. 

Unlike most wizards who perfect their 
craft well enough to earn the title of arch 
mage, Malchor is a fine physical specimen 
as well. Tall and straight, he could have 
been successful at many adventuring 
professions. But there is no doubt that he 
chose right in undertaking a career as a 
magic-user. His attitude is that of the true 
wizard. While Dendybar and other 
power-hungry mages seek knowledge 
for the sake of personal strength, Mal- 
char seeks knowledge simply for the sake 
of learning. 


He is a painter, a lover of art, and con 
siders his magic as another extension of 
his creativity. In his magic, he is a crafts 
man as surely as any dwarven smith. 
While the dwarf pounds the metal into 
beautiful objects, Malchor tunes his 
magical skills into creations of wonder 
and power. Included among his long list 
of magical creations are a staff of the 
magi, rings of warmth, and rings of 
feather falling. 

When traveling, Malchor, usually 
astride a griffon, always brings his staff 
of the magi, a +3 ring of protection, 
bracers of defense AC6, and a lurker 
cloak, as well as several rings of 
warmth and feather falling which he 
might give to a helpful adventurer or 
use as barter for some new spell or 
arcane tome. His spell choice also 
reflects both his love of learning and 
the adventuresome side, typically con 
sisting of a balanced blend of 
divination-type spells such as read mag 
ic and legend lore, and evocations, such 
as Bigby's grasping hand and lightning 
bolt. His favorite spells are the various 
Bigby's hand maneuvers, especially 
Bigby's crushing hand, which does 
exceptionally well as an interrogation 
tool. Legend lore also strikes a chord in 
his heart, especially when it reveals 
some knowledge long lost to the world. 
Everytime Malchor casts it, he tingles in 
anticipation of the mysteries he may be 
uncovering. 

As an arch-mage, Malchor certainly 
has an ample day-to-day spell selection 
to remain a formidable adventurer and 
an inquisitive student of the world. So 
dedicated to his craft, his spellbooks are 
overfilled with spells that most mages 
have never even heard of. And with his 
own research and his family constantly 
working on new spells, Malchor's books 
continue to swell. 

Malchor was born in the Ivy Mansion 
on Harpell Hill in Longsaddle, the small 
hamlet west of Luskan and Waterdeep. 
The town is principally known as the 
home of the Harpells, an extraordinary 
family of magic-users experimenting on 
the edge of reason and caution. Many a 
Harpell has fallen victim to an unsuc 


cessful experiment, and others have 
lost their perspective on reality to a 
world of unprovable and incompre 
hensible theories. Therefore, when 
Malchor, a relatively straightforward 
mage, emerged to become a charter 
member of the Company of Crazed 
Venturers, a wild band of young heroes 
dashing through the northern wilder 
ness like a runaway tornado, many 
speculated that he was trying to escape 
the unsteady environment of his birth 
place. 

That wasn't completely true. Malchor 
did see limitations to life in Longsaddle. 
His family's singular line of reasoning 
(or unreasoning) had begun to stagnate 
for the lack of influx of new ideas and a 
new way of approaching the use of 
magic. He felt that he would achieve his 
potential only if he left, for a while, and 
saw the world from a fresh perspective. 

He was the longest running member 
of the Company of Crazed Venturers, 
then took up study under Khelben 
"Blackstaff" Arunsun. After long years 
and rising to the title of arch-mage, Mal- 
char returned to Longsaddle to share 
some of his experiences with his kin. 

Then, needing a place of study far 
removed from the constant explosions 
and interruptions of the experiments at 
the Ivy Mansion, Malchor traveled a 
half-a-day's ride to the west, to the edge 
of Neverwinter Woods, and built the 
Tower of Twilight, his finest creation. 

Malchor rarely leaves his tower now, 
preferring the solitude of magical 
study. His present project involves the 
enhancement of stone guardians, 
golem-like creations that serve as 
guards in his tower. Malchor is a master 
at creating them, but is convinced that 
the art can be improved. 

Sometimes Malchor's adventuresome 
side resurfaces and he'll take to the 
road for a short, whirlwind dash, but 
inevitably he finds his way back to the 
tower before the change of a single sea 
son. 

Also, again on a whim of the complex 
mage's many moods, Malchor might 
take a younger mage under his tute 
lage. Though it is unlikely that any stu- 


76 














































dent will remain with Malchor for more 
than a year or two, the young mage will 
certainly be better off for the experi 
ence. 

For he will have witnessed one of the 
true geniuses of the Forgotten Realms 
at work, a man of insight and foresight, 
of daring and reason, and a true lover 
of the art of magic use. 

Roleplaying tips: For all of his 
hermit-like existence in the Tower of 
Twilight, Malchor Harpell is generally 
friendly and outgoing to new acquaint 
ances. He has no reason not to trust 
anyone, for he knows that he is well 
equipped to defend himself if the need 
arises. 

He is always willing to help out a par 
ty which travels with good intentions, 
and if Malchor gets involved in an 
adventure, hold on to your helmets! He 
has been known to level a mountain of 
goblin tunnels and drain a lake that 
housed a lizard man lair. Overkill is the 
key word here. 

As for training younger mages, Mal- 
char is quick to distinguish between a 
lover of learning and a lover of power. 
The former is likely to gain much from 
the arch-mage, the latter is likely to get 
a farewell handshake, complete with a 
kick in the rump! 

HobdrzTh of Bbddl 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 13" 

Hit Points: 75 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 + 1 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
15th-Level Human Cleric 
S:16 1:15 W:18 D:15 C:16 CH:13 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Ceremony, command, 
detect magic, purify food and 
drink. 

• Second-level - Attraction (new 


spell, see other notes). 

• Third-level - Animate dead, create 
food and water decay (new spell, 
particular to Bhaal, see other 
notes). 

• Fourth-level - nil. 

• Fifth-level - Air walk, control 
weather, wound (another spell 
unique to Bhaal, see other notes). 

• Sixth-level - Aerial servant, blade 
barrier. 

• Seventh-level - Earthquake. 

Physical description: Hobarth is 

grotesquely fat; rolls of fat sag around 
his neck and tiny eyes gleam from 
beneath low, sinister brows and over 
bloated cheeks. Several large warts - 
punishments from Bhaal for moments 
when he had been less than devout - 
mar his nose. 

He usually wears his holy robes, 
which conceal the suit of chain mail he 
prudently wears underneath. 

Equipment: When Hobarth came to 
Corwell, he was drawn to the Heart of 
Kazgaroth. This is the stone-like black 
heart of the avatar - all that is left after 
Tristan slew him. The Heart of 
Kazgaroth acts as a direct channel to 
Bhaal. It confers no further spells on its 
wielder, who must be a priest of Bhaal, 
but it allows the priest to use any spell 
without forgetting it. 

The stone calls appropriate clerics to 
itself if it is not in the right hands. All 
plant life and small animal life within 
15' of the stone withers and dies within 
a day. If Bhaal wishes to give specific 
commands to his priest, the stone 
implants images of the command in the 
priest's mind. 

Personality: Hobarth is mean, pet 
ty, manipulative, and vicious. He has a 
short temper when thwarted that he 
tries to control. He has piggish personal 
habits and loves to eat. 

Motivations: Like most priests of 
the death god, Hobarth fears Bhaal and 
propitiates him at every chance. He 
hates the sea. Next to the sea, he hates 
dogs. His loves are the exercise of 
power over people and the dealing of 
death. 

Background notes: Hobarth, a 


devoted priest of Bhaal, came from 
Amn to the Moonshaes. Bhaal realized 
that while Kazgaroth made Bhaal's 
presence felt in the islands, the monster 
was not a priest, and could not convert 
anyone to his cause and worship, 
except covertly and briefly. 

Once in the isles, Hobarth discovered 
Cyndre was already starting his own 
master plan for dominion over the Isles. 
The two joined in a holy (in Bhaal's eyes, 
anyway) alliance to destroy the power 
of the druids, each intending to destroy 
the other when their conquest was 
completed. 

Then Kazgaroth, heartened because 
Bhaal had so reduced the power of the 
Goddess, made his own bid to destroy 
Corwell (See DARKWALKER ON 
MOONSHAE). Bhaal stood aside to let 
his avatar make his bid for conquest. 

When Kazgaroth failed, Hobarth 
moved the alliance to avenge him. 
While Cyndre attempted to destroy 
Tristan on Alaron, Hobarth journeyed 
to Gwynneth, where he found the 
Heart of Kazgaroth and used it to ani 
mate an army of undead. He led this 
army to attack Myrloch Vale, the center 
of the Goddess' power, for the purpose 
of destroying it and also securing 
Robyn of Corwell to sacrifice to Bhaal. 

Hobarth succeeded in his first pur 
pose, but Robyn got away to join Tristan 
in Alaron and help him defeat Cyndre 
and the high king. 

Hobarth followed his god's dictates to 
destroy Myrloch Vale and confronted 
Tristan and his allies there on the bare 
bones of the Vale in the final battle, 
where Bhaal himself came to confront 
his antagonists. 

Other notes: 

ATDucOon (altejuDoN) 

Level: 2 

Components: V,S,M 
Range: touch 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

Area of Effect: 1 target 


77 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Explanation/description: This acts as 
a combination of the magical spell 
charm person and the clerical remove 
fear and is much used by clerics of 
Bhaal because of their ambient air of 
death. It also has aspects of the magical 
spell friends. The spell replaces any 
negative emotions the target has 
toward the user with positive emotions. 
Repulsion becomes attraction, hatred 
becomes love, etc. It is reversible, as dis 
dain and can be used in that fashion to 
cause the target to replace all positive 
feelings concerning a named target 
(which can be the caster if he really 
wants someone to despise him) with 
their opposites. A saving throw against 
this spell has modifiers of +1 through 
+5 if the emotions to be changed are 
really intense. As such, it is much more 
useful as a ploy to make a date with a 
barmaid (who is motivated to please 
customers, anyway) than it is to convert 
the feelings of one's enemies. 

Decav (AITeRaDoN)) 

Level: 3 

Components: V,S,M 

Range: Touch 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: None 

Area of Effect: 1 cubic foot/level 

Explanation/description: This spell 
acts to accelerate the aging of any arti 
fact. For every hour that passes, the 
object decays a day. Equally, any abra 
sion or strain to the article is increased 
twentyfold. 

W ousjd 

(NecfcomawDc) 

Level: 5 

Components: V,S 
Range: 12" 

Casting Time: 5 segments 
Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: Neg. 

Area of Effect: 1 target 

Explanation/description: This spell 


does the damage of a cause serious 
wounds spell at the given range. 

Jibjchibj 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 86 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILTIY: Nil 
13th-Level Human Samurai 

Sixth-Level Shukenja 
S:18 1:17 W:9 D:15 C:12 CH:14 

Proficiencies: Calligraphy, eti 
quette, horsemanship, reading/writing, 
falconry, heraldry, administration. 

Commonly used spells: Levitate, 
deflection, aid, trance, dream sight, cas 
tigate, abjure, speak with dead, imunity 
to weapons, possess, raise dead. 

He was destruction incarnate. Was he 
evil? Or was he merely a victim of a 
darker power? 

Physical Description: He is a 

huge, squat man (nearly 250 pounds), 
rippling with muscle and suppressed 
power. His clothes are the simple red 
robes of the monk, but his teeth are 
blacked and his eyebrows shaven to 
show that he is not unaware of courtly 
graces. His tread is menacingly light - 
subtle destructive power lightly reined 
by an iron will. 

Personality: Brilliant, cold, and cal 
culating, Jinchin is a consummate strat 
egist. A master swordsman, far greater 
than either Doin Sanehiro or Prince 
Gisen, he is capable of besting any oppo 
nent. He has also mastered many of the 
arts of the shukenja, turning these to 
his own evil designs, and making him 
an extremely deadly foe in all aspects. 
Yet, he never kills needlessly. Mercy and 
murder are one the same to him, as 
long as they serve a greater plan. 

Motivations: Emotion rarely if ever 
affects Jinchin's judgment. He can be a 
charming host or a ruthless killer, 
depending on which face is more useful 


to him at the time. His greatest pleasure 
in in exhibiting his ability, whether as 
strategist or a fighter - a bold decision 
masterfully made fills him with the 
same heady feelings others might asso 
ciate with passion or love. 

Jinchin's history: Once a powerful 
counselor to the Imperial Court, the 
monk Jinchin (then known by the his 
clan name of Ieyasu Sabanada) was the 
eldest son of a major samurai family. 
But soon after the death of his father, he 
and his elder brothers fell to fighting 
each other. Stripped of his titles and 
ranks, Ieyasu retired to the distant Tem 
ple of Kagaii, renouncing his old name 
for the name Jinchin, and taking up the 
monk's robes of office. 

Jinchin's original goal was merely to 
depose his brothers and once again rule 
the Sabanada Clan. But as he stayed 
long years at the temple, increasing his 
mastery of the shukenja's arts, his ambi 
tions grew, until at last, nothing would 
do but complete dominion over the 
lands of Kozakura. 

To this end, Jinchin began to gather to 
himself a great army - first, of discon 
tented monks within the temple, then 
later, rebellious samurai and ronin cir 
culating around the Emperor's Court. 
As his army grew, it began to attract 
even less savory recruits: monsterous 
oni, tengu, and legions of undead 
gakken. 

The Earth Spider: In his quest for 
absolute power, Jinchin was willing to 
deal with the darkest of spirits. The 
most feared of these was the infamous 
Earth Spider. This terrible demon (once 
defeated by a great ancestor of the 
Emperor) held a special hatred of the 
Imperial Throne and all it symbolized. 
Coming to Jinchin in his dreams, it 
offered him all of its power, if the evil 
monk would in turn become the Earth 
Spider's avatar. The unholy alliance was 
consummated in blood, and the now 
unstoppable Jinchin poured forth his 
demonic legions upon the land. 

It was in one of these battles that Jin 
chin first encountered Doin Sanehiro, 
then tactical adviser for the Shuramura 
Clan. Sanehiro was merely another 


78 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


samurai, until his strategies at the battle 
of Kiroshina threw back five of Jin- 
chin's six attacks. On the sixth assault, 
Jinchin dispatched one of his most pow 
erful oni to personally deal with Sane- 
hiro. Thinking the matter ended, he 
was somewhat irritated to find Sane- 
hiro alive after the battle and still a via 
ble opponent. At each step of his 
orderly plan of conquest, Jinchin found 
himself blocked by Sanehiro, so that 
eventually killing the samurai became 
an obsession (or as close to an obsession 
as Jinchin would allow himself). 

Jinchin's hatred of Sanehiro has 
grown even greater, as his dark master 
(the Earth Spider), will not let the monk 
slay the "Monkey" out of hand. As a 
price for gaining the demon spider's 
powers, Jinchin has been forced to use 
Sanehiro/Monkey as a pawn with 
which to capture the willow spirit 
Onoye. 

Dungeon Master's information: 

It is rare that an adventuring party will 
encounter Jinchin on the road; peons 
on the level of player characters will 
always encounter one of Jinchin's many 
minions. However, should the adven 
turers in some way thwart Jinchin, it is 
likely that they will come to his atten 
tion. Attacks by his monstrous allies 
will follow. Should the players survive 
these encounters, Jinchin may actually 
lead a force against them himself, hop 
ing to capture and subvert them to his 
side. 

There is one exception to this. Should 
the players already be allied with 
Sanehiro/Monkey or one of his friends, 
Jinchin will take very special notice of 
them. They will be singled out for 
attacks from his most powerful forces. 
Should the adventurers escape their 
fates, Jinchin will personally seek them 
out for destruction! 

Jinchin has two aspects; that of his 
human self (a powerful samurai/ 
shukenja double class), and the aspect 
of an avatar of the Earth Spider. As an 
avatar, Jinchin has access to any or all of 
the spells of the demon creature, 
although he may not use its bite and 
poison attacks. 


KazgaRoTb 

FREQUENCY: Unique 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 0 
MOVE: 12" 

HIT DICE: 16 
Hit Points: 120 
% IN LAIR: 0 

TREASURE TYPE: See below 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: Idl2/ldl2/3dl0 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 60% 
INTELLIGENCE: High 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: L (18' tall) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

The beast is a formidable foe in com 
bat, yet whenever possible, it seeks to 
do battle through shrewdness and 
trickery rather than straightforward 
melee. When fighting in its true form, 
Kazgaroth attacks with its clutching 
foreclaws and vicious bite. It can, at the 
same time, swing its tail around to 
strike a foe from behind for ld6 points 
of damage. A person thus struck must 
make a Dexterity Check with a -5 pen 
alty, or be knocked from his feet. He 
can do nothing the next round except 
stand. 

Kazgaroth can only be struck by mag 
ical weapons of +2 or greater enchant 
ment. Its magical resistance applies to 
all magic-user and clerical spells, except 
for those neutral clerics whose powers 
are based on preservation of the bal 
ance of nature. 

Kazgaroth can change shape at will, 
shrinking to as small as half ling size. It 
can assume the exact form of a creature 
(including a human or other intelligent 
creature) it has eaten. It cannot assume 
a form larger than its own - but then it 
doesn't really need to. It has a number 
of special abilities. 

The beast can cause lycanthropy with 
its bite, if it chooses to do so. It can 
detect magic and detect invisibility in a 
24" radius at will. It can cast a perma 
nent charm upon a victim at a range of 


1" or less. A side effect of this charm is 
that the victim must roll a successful 
saving throw vs. spell each week or per 
manently lose a point of Charisma (to a 
minimum of 3). Once per week it can 
cast a death spell at a character of sev 
enth level or lower. 

The beast has a unique ability to per 
form a corrupted type of mass charm 
spell, creating for itself a band of fanati 
cally loyal undead troops known as 
Blood Warriors. A unit of soldiers, up to 
500 individuals, can be thus corrupted 
as long as the unit has a strong com 
mander to serve as the beast's lieuten 
ant. The game stats of the Blood 
Warriors follow this description. 

Kazgaroth draws power from the 
Goddess of the Moonshae Isles herself 
and thus chooses as a resting place a 
Moonwell (see FR2, MOONSHAE) that 
has been polluted or otherwise dese 
crated. The beast is the lord of the fir- 
bolgs (see MOONSHAE) and will often 
order a band of these giants to guard its 
well, and perhaps to pollute it, while it 
rests and gains power. If Kazgaroth is 
slain by any means other than the 
Sword of Cymrych Hugh, it will return 
within 3d6 years. If this sword is used 
to kill it, and the remains of the beast 
are burned to ashes, it is rumored that 
it can be destroyed permanently. 

Apparently this happened when 
Prince Tristan Kendrick slew the beast, 
but a part of its heart survived the con 
flagration, and it may yet grow again. 

Physical description: Kazgaroth 
looks like a tyrannosaurus rex with 
forelimbs that, while still short, actually 
match the rest of its body. It can run on 
all fours if it pleases, but usually travels 
on its hind legs. It has a broad, scaly 
body, and drools mildly acidic saliva 
from widespread jaws. Its feet are heav 
ily clawed, and poisoned spikes project 
from its knees and elbows. 

It, and most of its creations, such as 
the Blood Warriors (or Bloodriders) 
have hot fiery eyes. This continues in 
whatever form it assumes unless it very 
consciously controls itself. 

Personality: Kazgaroth is evil and 
degradation incarnate. When it has a 


79 


















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


foe helpless it gloats, and even when 
masquerading as human it is cold and 
merciless and may kill someone on a 
whim. 

Motivations: In the pantheon of the 
Realms, the beast is manifested as an 
aspect of Malar, the Beastlord. On the 
Moonshaes, however, this aspect has a 
specific purpose: the disruption of The 
Balance. 

Background notes: The origins of 
Kazgaroth lurk in the past, nearly as 
distant as those of the Goddess of the 
Moonshae Isles herself. 

Over the years, it has arisen many 
times to upset The Balance and create 
havoc. Most recently, it attempted to 
combine the firbolgs and Northmen 
into a conquering army set on destroy 
ing all the realms of the Ffolk on the 
Moonshaes. However, despite his dep 
redations, Prince Tristan Kendrick and 
his friends Robyn the druid, Daryth of 
Calimshan, Keren the harper, Gavin the 
Smith, Finellen the dwarf, Brigit the 
elven knight, and Pawldo the halfling 
managed to stop him and slay him with 
the Sword of Crymrych Hugh, at the 
cost of Keren and Gavin's lives. 

Other notes: The Blood Warriors 
(or Bloodriders) are a type of undead 
soldier corrupted from normal human 
warriors by Kazgaroth's power. They 
are fanatically loyal, never check 
morale, and rejoice in killing. The beast 
can create one such unit each time it 
emerges from hibernation to stalk the 
land. 

Further information on this troop of 
undead can be found in FR2, MOON 
SHAE. 

Kuawg (PR)wce Gteew) 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 66 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Kensai 
S:16 1:16 W:10 D:17 C:14 CH:17 


Proficiencies: Calligraphy, eti 
quette, horsemanship, reading/writing, 
kung fu, poetry. 

There are some things so fair to look 
upon, that they disguise their true 
power and dangerousness. These are 
the poisonous dagger shell of the Celes 
tial Sea, the coral banded serpent of the 
Great Desert. And then, there is Prince 
Gisen of T'u Lung. 

A thousand years of culture and wis 
dom have culminated in the young 
Prince Gisen - as he, proud of bis lin 
eage and history, would be the first to 
tell you. Or would, were he not con 
stantly engaged in a life and death 
struggle to survive against impossible 
odds. This is one reason why he has 
chosen to hide his illustrious lineage 
behind the simple name of a traveling 
mendicant called Kuang. 

A young man of 22, Kuang/Gisen 
stands out even among the many peo 
ples of the Lands of Men. He is tall, well- 
built, and has the face and features that 
young women dream of and scholars 
talk of in their histories. With his grand 
and flowing motions, his long hair tied 
back in the fashionable style of the East 
ern Court, his dark, flashing eyes and 
saturnine smile, he might well be con 
sidered too pretty to be taken seriously. 
As his many adversaries have discov 
ered far too late, this is a fatal miscalcu 
lation. 

The T'u Lung court is a hotbed of 
duels, assassination, and intrigue, and it 
is in this arena that Kuang/Gisen sur 
vived to manhood. As a child of 5, the 
innate savagery of his family line sur 
faced when he single-handedly killed an 
assassin with his own knife. Trained in 
the best dojos of both the Shou and T'u 
courts, he has grown to be a master of 
the blade, as well as of various more 
obscure weapons, including the much 
dreaded kung fu of the Eastern lands. 

Unlike his good friend Doin Sanehiro, 
Kuang's skill is that of the formal duel 
ist. This originally made him somewhat 
naive concerning battlefield combat, as 
he mistakenly believed his opponent 
would follow the same rules of honor 
and decorum in which he was trained. 


Years of fighting pitched battles in des 
perate circumstances have taught him 
the errors in his thinking. 

The legend of the princess: Des 
tined to become a third son in the hotly 
contested T'u Lung succession, Kuang's 
plans were severely altered during a 
trading trip to the islands. While travel 
ing as a trader captain (Kuang is inordi 
nately fond of elaborate disquises), he 
chanced to rescue a young woman who 
had been kidnapped by pirates. It was 
only much later, after tbe two young 
people had fallen deeply in love, that 
Kuang discovered his "princess" was 
indeed just that - the youngest daugh 
ter, in fact, of the powerful emperor of 
Shou Lung. As their two nations had 
been embroiled in a civil war for the 
last two centuries, the lovers knew 
their affair was doomed - yet, under 
the sheltering hand of the divine Kwan 
Yang (mistress of lovers and compas 
sion), they still attempted to secretly 
meet whenever possible. 

This "love under the sword" came to 
an abrupt end when the traveling min 
strel Tam Nong Hikong came to the 
Shou Court singing a new tale of kid 
napped princesses, heroic princes, and 
forbidden love. While Hikong's new tale 
was a popular success, it didn't take 
long for the Shou emperor to deduce 
the participants and take action. The lit 
tle princess was packed off to an 
unknown destination, and her enraged 
eldest brother set assassins upon Prince 
Gisen to destroy him for the affront. 

Fleeing the agents of the most power 
ful nation under heaven, Kuang knows 
he lacks the power to directly oppose 
his enemies. Even if he should win the 
Southern throne (and with two power 
ful brothers opposing him, this is 
doubtful), the forces of T'u Lung would 
be unable to prevail against Shou 
Lung's mighty armies. For now, Kuang 
travels through Kozakura and Wa, 
seeking allies and magics which will 
give him some advantage in his struggle 
to win his princess. 

Wisdom isn't Kuang's strong point - 
headstrong, impulsive, and charis 
matic, he depends on luck and wit to get 


80 














































him out of most scrapes, and his sword 
skills to carry him through when all else 
fails. While his goal is etched in his 
mind, his methods are sketchily out 
lined, and his plans even worse. 

Kuang is very clever, quick-witted, 
and fanciful. His facility for disguise, 
learned from his elderly tutor, allows 
him to pass safely where most would 
fear to tread. His biggest problem is his 
natural arrogance - a prince of an 
arrogant nation, descended from the 
sea kings of Hai-Yuan, he finds it hard to 
swallow his pride in difficult situations. 

Currently, Kuang/Prince Gisen is in 
the guise of a young physician from the 
Eastern lands; talented with herbs and 
healing lore (or at least enough to get 
by: DMs may grant Kuang up to second- 
level clerical ability as part of his guise). 
He wears flashy but slightly tattered 
clothes, and carries a bag of herbs and 
cures. A small monkey (a symbol of his 
calling) rides his shoulder - he never 
fails to make comparisons between his 
pet and Doin Sanehiro's unfortunate 
nickname. 

On the road, and in his mendicant's 
disguise, the Prince wears no armor 
other than a heavily mailed kote on his 
left arm (he is a left-handed swords 
man, adding an additional +1 to his 
abilities as a fencer). In battle. Prince 
Gisen wears a fine and honorable suit of 
armor in the Shou/T'u style ( +4 magical 
armor). Its perfect finish has been cov 
ered by a cheap coat of black lacquer to 
disguise its ancestry. 

Dungeon Master's information: 
Players may encounter Prince Gisen/ 
Kuang almost anywhere within the 
Eastern Realms, as his search for allies 
and artifacts takes him to many strange 
places. If the PCs are overwhelmed in 
an attack, he will always lend his con 
siderable fighting skills to their cause; if 
he trusts them, he may try to enlist 
them in his crusade. This may take the 
form of adventures to recover power 
ful items, free allies, or just fight a 
source of oppression or evil. 

The Floating and the Shimmer 
ing Blades: The famous Floating Blade 
of Shin Lu is one of a matched pair of 


swords, forged on the day of the two 
half-brothers' birth. The second sword 
is known as the Shimmering Blade of 
Shin Ginsen. Both weapons are +3 long 
swords in the butterfly-tipped Shou 
style, and have the following powers: 
vorpal blade, luck blade, illusion and 
charm x 3 per day. However, when 
drawn in the presence of the matching 
blade, the swords become mere +3 
blades, unable to tap into their greater 
powers. The two blades were on dis 
play in the respective capitals of Shou 
and T'u Lung, until 10 years ago, when 
both mysteriously vanished. 

As legend has it, each of the twin 
blades is self aware, and that upon the 
death of each half-brother, his soul was 
captured and contained within his 
choice of weapon. The Floating Blade is 
said to contain the spirit of the Shou 
Emperor Shin Lu, and that his soul 
manifests itself as purity and light, 
teaching the blade's owner the way of 
peace and silent power. The Shimmer 
ing Blade of Shin Gisen manifests the 
spirit of its T'u Lung owner - it is vio 
lent, and possessed of quick, savage 
power. The Floating Blade's alignment is 
Lawful Good, the Shimmering Blade is 
Lawful Evil. 

Kuang was given the blades by his 
sword mentor, the great Tong Fu Mei, 
who had replaced the blade guards and 
hilts. (How Tong Fu acquired the blades 
can only be speculated.) However, the 
old sword master wisely did not tell the 
young Prince their origin, telling him 
only that the blades had a long and glo 
rious history. As a result, Kuang has lit 
tle or no knowledge of the Floating and 
Shimmering Blades' abilities. This is as 
Tong Fu intended, for his plan is to see 
which of the two blades Kuang will 
favor, and thus determine the young 
Prince's chosen path. It is ironic indeed 
that the very artifacts Prince Gisen 
needs to carve his way to the Jade 
Throne are within his very grasp. 


Lfraeo 

ARMOR CLASS: 10 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 30 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Second-Level Human Fighter 
S:15 1:18 W:16 D:17 C:14 CH:11 

A green-eyed man with pale brown 
hair who looks to be in his mid-20s, 
Lhaeo has aged well. His actual age is 
not well known. When he lets his true 
personality be seen, he is a quietly con 
fidant man possessing a keen mind and 
a very dry sense of humor. Lhaeo see a 
lot and says very little, a trait that 
Elminster values greatly, calling him 
"the very soul of discretion." 

To most of the world at large, he is a 
lisping, simpering fop of a man, with an 
effeminate way about him. He speaks in 
a high, lilting voice, avoids direct eye 
contact, and never sits or stand upright. 
All of this is an act which he has been 
playing for around 10 years. He can slip 
back and forth between personalities 
with startling ease. 

To the best of Lhaeo's knowledge, he 
is the last surviving member of a noble 
family in Tethyr. He is the son of King 
Alemander IV and the younger brother 
to prince Alemander V, traitor and kin- 
slayer. Lhaeo's mother was sent on a 
long land and sea excursion for her 
health shortly after becoming pregnant 
with him. It lasted over a year, and she 
toured many kingdoms. 

When the lad was but 6 months old, 
he was given into the hands of Elmin 
ster at the request of King Alemander 
IV Since Lhaeo was the younger son, 
the king sought to protect him from the 
intrigues of court and get him the best 
education in all of Faerun, namely 
under the tutelage of the famous Elmin 
ster. The entire birth and giving over of 


81 













































MINOR CHARACTERS 


the boy to the sage was kept a secret. 
Later, the secret was kept to protect his 
life. 

Ten years ago, when the royal family 
was thrown down from power, the last 
person in Tethyr to know of the exist 
ence of the prince died. Elminster told 
Lhaeo of his true heritage on his 16th 
birthday. By that time, Tethyr was 
already in strife. To return would mean 
certain death for one only trained as a 
scribe. With time he has lost most of his 
desire to journey to a homeland he nev 
er knew. 

His resemblance to the royal family is 
close enough, at least so Elminster says, 
that he has adopted a false personality 
to throw off any visitors from Tethyr 
who might pass through Shadowdale. 
Most men will not see past the voice and 
attitude to think that there might be a 
prince present. 

Lhaeo has no desire to rule any 
nation, and is content to merely be the 
foremost scribe to the foremost sage 
and practitioner of the art in the 
Realms. He rarely leaves Elminster's 
Tower, except to get supplies and other 
common items in Shadowdale. On rare 
occasions he will accompany Elminster 
on a journey, but prefers to be left 
behind. 

He has had few women in his years, 
and usually they have sharp, penetrat 
ing minds, and are not easily fooled by 
his act. Currently he is secretly trysting 
with Storm Silverhand, a former adven 
turess of considerable reputation, who 
cares not what others may think of her. 
They have kept their relationship 
secret from their friends, although it is 
almost certain that Elminster is aware 
of it. 

If you use the DRAGON(r) magazine 
NPC class of scribes, Lhaeo would be an 
llth-level scribe. As such, he has the 
trained ability similar to the write spell 
(first-level magic-user) without needing 
to cast any magic. Lhaeo can memorize 
and cast up to two of the following 
spells per day: Comprehend languages, 
confuse languages (reverse of pre 
vious), erase, read magic, unreadable 
magic (reverse of previous), explosive 


runes, secret page, encrypt, inscribe, 
and legend lore. He has learned all of 
these spells from Elminster. After two 
decades of service, Lhaeo has learned a 
lot from them. He reads and writes eve 
ry language in the Realms, and several 
from other worlds, and speaks Elvish. 
He is versed in codes and ciphers, and 
can forge most styles of handwriting. 
He is especially adept at imitating 
Elminster's writing, frequently leaving 
messages for the old sage written this 
way. This harmless practical joke has 
been known to produce quite a reac 
tion, to which Lhaeo smiles and goes 
back to peeling potatoes. 

He is particularly skilled at cartogra 
phy and calligraphy. He has made sev 
eral innovations in mapping now in 
common use throughout the Realms, 
Original maps of his can command a 
fair price in most civilized cities, and 
caravan masters pay a high price even 
for a copy of a copy. 

Lhaeo has few possessions of his own. 
One is a short sword of quickness (+2) 
emblazoned with his orginal family 
crest, which he hides under a wrapping 
of leather. Rarely needed, he keeps it 
hidden in the bedroom of the tower. It 
is his only heritage from his royal lin 
eage. With it he could prove his parent 
age to any in Tethyr, although he has no 
desire to do so. 

Maar)L of WATerzdeep 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 45 
NO. OF FATTACKS 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACKS: ld4 + 2 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
PSIONICE ABILITY: Nil 
13th-Level Magic-User 

S:12 1:18 W:12 D:17 C:15 CH:17 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Charm person, detect 


magic, magic missile. 

• Second-level - Forget, locate 
object, ray of enfeeblement. 

• Third-level - Clairvoyance, haste, 
slow. 

• Fourth-level - Charm monster, 
dimension door, remove curse. 

• Fifth-level - Contact other plane, 
dismissal, hold monster. 

• Sixth-level - Death spell, legend 
lore. 

Physical description: Maaril is a 
human male, a handsome, dark-eyed 
wizard with a jutting black beard curl 
ing from the point of his chin. Maaril is 
given to wearing dark green or purple 
robes and always carries a staff. 

Equipment: Maaril always wears 
his bracers of AC4, his amulet of proof 
against detection and location, and a 
ring of X-ray vision. And he is never 
without his staff of power. 

Personality: Maaril is a quiet, 
patient, behind-the-scenes schemer. He 
is known as an eccentric, but no one 
knows of his evil side. He rarely 
appears in public, but is known to 
spread the word to the taverns that he 
is having a party for those adventurers 
who have returned from their latest 
quests in the last three months. At these 
parties, he makes a point of meeting 
everyone and talking about their 
adventures with some animation, ask 
ing for particulars about how monsters 
were fought and what devices were 
used or found in the course of the 
adventure. 

Motivations: Maaril's main interest 
in life is magic items, and he will do any 
thing he can, in his own way, to obtain 
any items adventurers bring into 
Waterdeep. He throws his "welcome 
home" parties in order to find out about 
the latest items found by adventurers 
and what other items they may have in 
which he is interested. 

He is also fascinated with other 
planes and continually researches the 
spells necessary to open up gates and 
the spells necessary to control denizens 
of other planes once he has opened up 
the gate. He is a careful planner, and is 
not likely to open up a gate full of mon- 


82 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


sters he cannot control. 

Background notes: It is said that 
Maaril came from east of the Inner Sea, 
from Thay or Mulhorand or Aglarond 
or one of those other exotic lands that 
are known so little on the Sword Coast. 
However, very little is known of 
Maaril's life before he came to Water- 
deep. 

He has adventured with several of the 
adventurers of the city and has a repu 
tation as a greedy but proficient magic- 
user who always wants magic items as 
his share of any loot. He is also stingy 
with his magic items, using spells 
before a magic item. Of course, if he is 
traveling with an adventuring band, his 
spell mix, as shown above, changes to 
fit the situation. 

Other notes: Maaril lives in the 
Dragon Tower, which is so called 
because the top of the tower is carved 
into a dragon head and the smoke from 
the chimneys issues from the dragon's 
nostrils and mouth, an eerie sight. 

Maaril rarely issues forth from this 
tower, except to attend the private par 
ties of the nobles of Waterdeep or make 
arrangements for his own parties, 
which are restricted to the bottom floor 
of the tower. Guests climbing the stairs 
are stopped by animated statues (stone 
golems) who do not let anyone pass to 
the upper stories. 

The tower is full of guardian mon 
sters in the form of enchanted con 
structs, and they remain lifeless if 
Maaril has guests rather than 
intruders, unless the guests go where 
they are not wanted. 

When Maaril wants to seize a magic 
item from its current owner, he sends 
gargoyles or clay golems by night. If 
adventurers prove pesky and persist 
ent in wanting their items back, he 
hires (through intermediaries) bravos 
and assassins to do away with them. 

When the golems and gargoyles 
secure the items for which they are 
sent, they return to the Dragon Tower 
by means of the sewers of Waterdeep. 
Maaril has a secret entrance to the 
sewers in his kitchen area, which is in 
the back of the first floor of the tower. 


Maaril can be a good method of get 
ting rid of a magic item that proves too 
disrupting to the campaign. If the char 
acters are so enamored of the object 
that they try to get it back, Maaril can 
become a major menace to the party, 
growing in level as they do, and always 
ready to attack them with hirelings or 
constructs, or otherwise work against 
them. Remember that he is constantly 
acquiring new magic items from other 
sources as he deals with the player 
characters. 

If he gets the characters mad enough, 
he can be used as an excuse for a trip to 
the other planes. As the characters 
close in on him, he escapes to another 
plane, and the characters must follow 
him (using some artifact that he had to 
leave behind in the rush). Once on the 
other plane, they must hunt him down, 
and deal with the inhabitants of the oth 
er plane. The DM can devise an elabo 
rate society of other plane beings 
whose ways are totally foreign to the 
party members, and to Maaril. The 
characters may have to team up with 
Maaril to escape this plane, then finally 
deal with him back in the Forgotten 
Realms. And, of course, there is nothing 
to say that they will come out in the 
same place they entered. 

MaKJsbooKJ of The 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 60 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
16th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:10 1:18 W:16 D:16 C:16 CH:18 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Charm person, burn 
ing hands, shocking grasp. 


• Second-level - ESP, ray of enfee- 
blement, whip. 

• Third-level - Clair audience, hold 
person, suggestion. 

• Fourth-level - Charm person, con 
fusion, polymorph other. 

• Fifth-level - Cloud kill, 
feeblemind, magic jar 

• Sixth-level - Disintegrate, project 
image. 

• Seventh-level - Teleport without 
error 

• Eighth-level - Trap the soul. 

Physical description: Manshoon 

is a human male of average size who 
always wears a mask. It is said that he 
has had his features changed from 
when he was last seen unmasked. In 
any case, no one knows his true face, 
and he is said to walk unmasked in the 
streets of Zhentil Keep to get a better 
understanding of the people. If so, his 
actions prove this deception is solely for 
the purpose of learning how to repress 
them better. 

Equipment: Manshoon carries a 
staff of the magi, wears black robes of 
the arch-magi and wears a ring of spell 
storing and a ring ofwizardri/ that dou 
bles fourth- and fifth-level spells. If he 
does, in fact, walk the streets of Zhentil 
Keep, then he must have other magical 
items that protect him, or some sort of 
illusion to hide the appearance of his 
usual equipment. 

Personality: Manshoon is cruel, cal 
culating, and careful. He never lets his 
temper master his reason, and is always 
alert. He is quite content to flee danger. 

Motivations: Manshoon learned at 
an early age that the best spot to occupy 
in a tyranny is the tyrant's seat. His 
tyrannical father abused his power 
over his children, and Manshoon decid 
ed that no one would again have that 
authority over him. 

His ultimate goal is the total domina 
tion of the Realms from the Sunrise 
Mountains to the Sword Coast. Then, 
perhaps, he will feel safe and sure that 
no one will be able to tyrannize him 
again. 

Background notes: Manshoon 
was born to a noble house of Zhentil 


83 

















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Keep. After his father's death, Man- 
shoon first slew his older brother 
Asmuth and then seized control of the 
city's governing councils by skillful 
intrigue, staunch allies (such as the city 
ruler, Lord Chess, a lifelong "friend"), 
and the aid of the beholder Xantriph 
and that faction of the priesthood of 
Bane led by Fzoul Chembryl. 

Manshoon's alliances with the dark 
nagas, and his manipulations of the Cult 
of the Dragon, increased his influence 
and bought him the time necessary to 
build his personal mastery of the magi 
cal arts without allowing stronger 
rivals to assume control of the city until 
he was ready to take it. 

Now he has virtual control of the city 
and he has flourished; his spell library 
is thought to be the equal of Khelben 
Arunsun's, and his arsenal of magical 
devices and weapons the largest held 
by a single mage anywhere in the 
Realms (although it is scattered, hidden, 
and guarded by spells and monsters). 

Other notes: Manshoon heads the 
Zhentarim; its power and success are 
largely due to his efforts, and its collec 
tive control of Zhentil Keep, the Citadel 
of the Raven (and through it, domi 
nance of Thar and the cities of the 
Moonsea's north coast), Darkhold (and 
through it, maintenance of the shortest 
overland trade route between the Inner 
Sea and Waterdeep) have made him 
very rich. 

He seems an unbeatable foe; others 
face danger to do his bidding, but he is 
"never there." 

It must be kept in mind that although 
the Zhentarim (known as "The Black 
Network" to its foes) is a powerful 
force, it does not, in fact, control Zhen 
til Keep. Manshoon has the ear of Lord 
Chess, but so do many other councilors, 
including representatives of Lord Bane 
who are not under the thumb of Fzoul 
Chembryl. 

Thus, it is possible to enter Zhentil 
Keep to confront Manshoon (assuming 
anyone would want to do so) and not be 
stopped at the city gates. However, 
Manshoon has his own small fortress 
within the walls of Zhentil Keep, and 


his alliance of all classes of being makes 
him well-nigh invulnerable. Anyone 
wishing to assault him directly will 
need help. 

One interesting focus for adventure 
is Manshoon's many caches of equip 
ment and provisions. Each of these 
would provide a rare treasure for an 
adventuring party. Of course, discover 
ing a map to any of these caches is virtu 
ally impossible, but it would not be 
strange for Manshoon to hide them 
away in a dungeon where other crea 
tures and treasures can serve to scare 
away or distract adventurers. 

This situation could serve as a means 
of involving a party of adventurers who 
have had no dealings with the Zhen 
tarim in a feud with Manshoon. In 
whatever dungeon they are exploring, 
simply set up a treasure of gems, jew 
elry, and a couple of magic items appro 
priate for a magic-user but usable by 
others (such as rings of protection or 
some miscellaneous magic item), guard 
them with monsters and/or traps that 
can sit in one place for decades without 
needing to move around, and let them 
be found by the intrepid adventurers. 
They slay the guardians, avoid the 
traps, and gain a useful treasure. Man 
shoon is very upset, and soon learns 
who looted his cache, and the charac 
ters gain an implacable foe, who will 
not rest until they are all dead. 

MaNjim 

FREQUENCY: Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 0/2/7 
MOVE: 3" 

HIT DICE: XX 
Hit Points: 70 
% IN LAIR: 80 
TREASURE TYPE: I,S,T 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2d4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Magic 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Anti-magic ray 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Special 
INTELLIGENCE: Exceptional 
ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
SIZE: L (5' diameter) 


PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Physical description: Manxam's 
physical shape is the same as any other 
eye tyrant: A large diameter sphere 
covered in chitin with ten eyestalks, a 
large eye in the forward part of the 
sphere, and a tooth-filled mouth below 
that, all of which floats about 3" above 
the ground. 

Equipment: There is very little 
equipment that is of use to an eye 
tyrant, but Manxam has rigged a frame 
work among his eye tentacles and had a 
helm of telepathy altered to let him 
wear and use it. 

Like any eye tyrant, Manxam has 
extensive treasures, including several 
magical items. He likes to collect them 
for the sake of collecting them, and, of 
course, any magic item in his collection 
cannot be used against him. 

Personality: Manxam is a very rea 
sonable beholder, ready to deal with 
humans (as long as it is to his perceived 
advantage) rather than immediately 
attack them. For this reason, he first 
allied himself with Zhentil Keep. 

He is particularly friendly to priests 
of Bane, and unfriendly to magic-users 
unless they demonstrate their friendli 
ness to him. He will not negotiate with a 
magic-user, though he is willing to 
speak to one for the purpose of threat 
ening him. 

Motivations: Manxam is motivated 
by a desire to build up a private little 
fiefdom in Teshwave. He has servants 
and slaves, and is willing to help the 
humans of Zhentil Keep in order to 
accumulate more wealth to build up his 
own defenses. 

Manxam, like most of the eye tyrants 
who have cooperated with humankind 
in Zhentil Keep prior to the rise of the 
Zhentarim, resents and despises the 
"upstart mages," vastly preferring the 
priests of Bane, who accord beholders 
the respect they see as their due. More 
over, he views the Zhentarim's bold 
expansionist policies with increasing 
alarm, thinking that they will lead to an 
inevitable battle union of all of Zhentil 
Keep's foes, and the resulting defeat 


84 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


and destruction of Zhentil Keep. If 
Zhentil Keep is destroyed, its allies will 
be destroyed, and Manxam is too intelli 
gent to think he won't be one of the 
allies to go down. 

For this reason, he is helping the oppos 
ing faction of priests of Bane, based in 
Mulmaster, to thwart the Zhentarim 
where he can, and still remain in the good 
graces of Zhentil Keep. It is a thin edge he 
walks, but he has supreme confidence in 
his ability to walk it. 

Background notes: Manxam spent 
centuries in the shadow of Xantirph 
and Zorkha. However, since their 
deaths at the hands of adventurers, he 
is probably the most powerful eye 
tyrant in the lands of the northwest 
Inner Sea, including the Moonsea cities, 
Sembia, Cormyr, and the Dales. Manx 
am deals in the politics of men as Xan 
tirph did, but with a far lower profile 
and fewer servant creatures. 

Since the great dragon invasion of a 
few years ago, Manxam has lived in 
Teshwave, once a burgeoning riverside 
trade town, now a ruin inhabited by the 
remnants of its population and an eye 
tyrant who has taken this time of devas 
tation as an invitation to settle himself 
into a nice little estate. 

The Zhentarim leave him alone, but 
other residents of Zhentil Keep visit 
and keep him apprised of current 
developments. 

Other notes: It is thought that the 
anti-Zhentarim faction is using 
Teshwave and Manxam as a focal point 
for assembling their forces and training 
recruits for the "great day" when they 
drive Manshoon and his followers out 
of Zhentil Keep. However, they are 
faced with the problem of being a rela 
tively small force facing a large, suc 
cessful, operation. Being the alignment 
they are, they cannot even depend on 
the support of the populace around 
Zhentil Keep, for they are just as terri 
fying and tyrannical as the Zhentarim. 

This presents some interesting possi 
bilities for adventures, as characters 
can be lured to Teshwave and persuad 
ed to "strike a blow for freedom" 
against the Zhentarim and gain great 


treasure at the same time. In this way, 
the anti-Zhentarim faction, which still is 
a great part of Zhentil Keep, is not seen 
as directly threatening the city, as long 
as no one realizes it is sponsoring the 
bandits who are giving the Zhentarim a 
bad time. 

Of course, what the characters do 
when they realize that their patrons are 
led by an eye tyrant is a good question, 
as is the question of how long Manxam 
can stay in the background instead of 
coming to the fore and trying to enslave 
or kill the characters. After all, that has 
been the instinct of beholders for cen 
turies, and centuries of instinct are 
hard to shake off. 

The characters can realize the nature 
of their patrons in several ways, from 
spotting Manxam lurking in the back 
ground to making a deduction based on 
the condition of the people of Teshwave 
and what is being done toward recov 
ery for the town. 

Masalcado 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 70 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Ninth-Level Bushi 

Tiger Hengeyokai 
S:18 1:12 W:7 D:18 C:16 CH:15 

Proficiencies: Calligraphy, eti 
quette, reading/writing, survival, track 
ing, gaming, hunting, and running. 

Anger drives him - a terrible, feral 
thing. For he has not yet decided which 
path to take; that of men or that of the 
beast. His greatest weakness is that he 
worships power in all its forms, and 
fears it most of all in himself. 

Personal History: Born a shape- 
changer, the hengeyokai Masakado may 
assume human, cat-man or tiger 
aspects. He is beyond the bounds of 
normal society, but unlike others of his 


kind, his aloneness torments him and 
drives him to associate even more with 
the world of men. 

As a human, Masakado is thin and 
lithe - a cat in all but shape. His rich, 
lustrous hair is shot with golden streaks 
(a sign of his tiger blood), while his fea 
tures are sharp and savage, as if rough 
ly carved from stone. A soft, gentle 
voice and sleepy indolent movements 
belie an incredible awareness of his sur 
roundings; his senses are far keener 
than those of others, and the slightest 
sound can jar him from torpor to 
instant activity. Moody, intense and 
headstrong, he finds it hard to plan or 
think ahead; instead, he lives for the 
moment. 

Masakado is a creature of rage; domi 
nated by the wild and savage side of 
himself, he is constantly struggling to 
subdue his animal nature. His manners 
are urbane; he is well-educated and 
intelligent. But his blood calls him to 
hunt at night and to seek the fury of 
battle and the kill. His soft voice sings 
with implied threat and menace, and 
his actions are violent and erratic. He 
takes offense at the smallest things, par 
ticularly if the slight is from a human. 

Masakado's greatest secret is his alli 
ance with the monk Jinchin, a human 
he loathes and hates, but serves willing 
ly. Perhaps this is because each sees 
himself mirrored in the other. Ulti 
mately, Masakado's fury will lead him to 
his destruction, as his anger drives him 
to honor no other will but his own. 

Dungeon Master's information: 
Encountering Masakado is a risky prop 
osition for any adventuring party. His 
violent mood swings and fearsome 
combat skills make him dangerous in 
the extreme. If the party ignores his 
markedly hengeyokai background, he 
may join them for a time as a compan 
ion; however, at the least hint of insult 
or notice, he will fly into a murderous 
rage. 

Masakado wears fairly standard 
armor for a Kozakuran - lacquered 
deep black with diagonal stripes of gold 
on back, breast, and helm. He carries an 
extremely long no-dachi (the long horse 


85 















































sword), which he easily uses with one 
hand. Neither armor not arms possess 
any magical properties. 

M)rT "The 
M osjeyLesjdeiz" of 
WaTeR^eep 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 75 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ ATTACK: ld8 + 3 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Ninth-Level Human Fighter 

Seventh-Level Thief 
S:17 1:13 W:15 D:17 C:16 CH:14 

Thief skills: Pick pocket 65%, open 
locks 62%, find/remove traps 50%, 
move silently 60%, hide in shadows 
48%, hear noise 25%, climb walls 94%, 
and read languages 35%. 

Physical description: Mirt is a 
human male - fat, casual in dress, and 
generally seen with a tankard in his 
hand. His face is round and red-nosed, 
his hair is an unremarkable brown, and 
he walks with a slight hitch in his step, 
as if being very careful where he puts 
his feet. Anyone who sees him for the 
first time assumes he is drunk. 

Equipment: Mirt wears a set of 
stained leather armor +4 under a loose 
tunic and trews. This includes a hood 
that lies under the tunic unless he is get 
ting into a fight. In a fight, he fights with 
two weapons, his long sword +2 and 
his dagger. He also wears a ring of 
regeneration. Around his neck is a gem 
on a chain which is actually a periapt of 
proof against poison +2. 

Personality: Mirt is coarse- 
mannered and gruff, a hard-drinking 
man. In earlier days, he also had a repu 
tation for being lusty and brawling. 
Anyone who has dealings with him real 
izes that beneath the beery exterior is a 


very shrewd man. 

Anyone who has closer relationships 
with him, such as his friends among the 
Lords of Waterdeep, know that he is 
also a romantic, and very soft-hearted. 

Motivations: Mirt wishes to main 
tain the peace and prosperity of Water- 
deep, and uses his power as a Lord of 
Waterdeep to insure this tranquility. At 
one time, Mirt was a money-grubbing 
mercenary, but once he had accumu 
lated a fortune, he realized that he 
could not buy the peace and tranquility 
he wanted, that he would have to work 
for it. The calm he craved would not be 
possible unless the rest of the world 
was at peace. 

So when Khelben and Sammereza 
greeted him when he moved to Water- 
deep and asked him to become a Lord 
of Waterdeep, he accepted wholeheart 
edly. Now he makes his wheezing way 
around the streets of the city, looking 
for problems and trying to see what 
must be done to keep Waterdeep safe. 

He is one of the most practical of the 
members of the Lords, though his 
innate romanticism sometimes clouds 
his views of the most practical ways to 
accomplish a purpose. 

Background notes: Mirt is short 
for Mertonius, and as the son of a suc 
cessful coaster (a trading concern along 
the Sword Coast), he was brought up 
with an appreciation of the legends of 
the great heroes of yore. He gravitated 
toward the life of a fighting man, and 
rapidly gained prominence under his 
nickname, Mirt. 

Eventually, he became a successful 
mercenary general of the North and 
Sword Coast lands called "Mirt the Mer 
ciless," and accumulated a vast store of 
wealth. Along the way, he met Durnan 
the Wanderer, and they became good 
friends and companions. 

Finally, Mirt decided he was tired, 
and determined that he would retire 
and enjoy it. The younger Durnan fol 
lowed him into retirement, mostly 
because he could not conceive of con 
tinuing his adventuring without Mirt. 

Within a month of his arrival in 
Waterdeep, Mirt was invited to become 


a Lord of Waterdeep. He was already 
looking for a way to break his boredom, 
so he accepted immediately. A few 
years later, when another Lord died, he 
suggested that Durnan be brought into 
the Lords, and the other Lords agreed. 
It was something of a shock to Durnan 
to see Mirt there, as he had begun to fall 
away from his friend because of Mirt's 
strange behavior. 

Shortly after becoming a Lord, Mirt 
decided to get closer to the people of 
Waterdeep. He figured the best way 
was to become a thief. So the old, fat, 
but surprisingly agile Tonius the thief 
appeared in the Dock Ward and became 
a member of the Thieves Guild. He 
advanced rapidly until the Lords, 
alarmed, among other things, at the 
success of thieves in robbing them, 
decided to close the guild down. Mirt 
acted as a spy for the Lords, discover 
ing all the secret ways and safe houses, 
then in a week of flame and steel, the 
guild was destroyed, and most of its 
members slain, captured, or driven out 
of Waterdeep. 

After that, Mirt returned to his craft 
as a fighter and continued in that class, 
gaining most of his experience on a few 
missions with other Lords that took 
them Undermountain and into other 
planes to defend Waterdeep. 

Now, though he is often seen wheez 
ing about from tavern to tavern in food- 
stained clothing, Mirt is actually a very 
rich man. He is also one of the most 
influential Lords of Waterdeep, though 
few beyond the Lords themselves know 
this. He is well-loved by his fellows, 
even the paladins, and is wise in tactics 
and in judging the characters of all 
races and creeds. 

Other notes: Mirt's constant com 
panion is the young fighter Asper, 
whom he rescued as an infant from a 
sacked city, and whom he regards as his 
little girl, despite her now-matured 
beauty. Asper is a fighter of about fifth 
level, (DEX17, CHA16, CG) worships 
Tymora, and is a lithe, petite beauty, 
soft-spoken yet merry. Her weapon of 
choice is the bow, and she has a com 
posite short bow +1 and 13 arrows +1 


86 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


and four arrows +3 to use with it. She 
also has an arrow +3 of slaying griffins 
which is fletched with griffin feathers. 

M)sT)WARpeRA£>MACleS 
Ha) Draco 

FREQUENCY: Unique 

NO: APPEARING: 1 

ARMOR CLASS: -4 

MOVE: 9"/IT 

HIT DICE: 10 

Hit Points: 90 

% IN LAIR: 60 

TREASURE TYPE: H,S,T,X 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 (see below) 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: Id8/ld8/3dl0 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Breath weapon and 

magic use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
INTELLIGENCE: Exceptional 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil with Neutral 
tendencies 
SIZE: L (45' long) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Commonly used spells: Charm 
person, locate object, protection from 
normal missiles, hold person. 

Mistinarperadnacles, or Mist, as she 
is commonly known, is a typical venera 
ble red dragon in most regards. She can 
speak and use magic, having gained two 
spells of each level from first through 
fourth level, and one fifth-level spell. 
Mist can breathe a cone of fire 9" long 
by 3" base diameter. Like all dragons in 
the Realms, she can use this breath 
weapon as many times as she sees fit in 
a 24-hour period, inflicting total dam 
age not exceeding three times her hit 
points, or 270 total points of damage. 

Where Mist differs from a standard 
red dragons is in her personality. While 
most red dragons are horrifyingly evil 
and avaricious creatures, Mist is rather 
refined and even a bit naive in her out 
look on life. She is far from the terrify 
ing force of evil stereotypically 
personified by red dragons. 

This does not mean Mist is not deadly 
or evil. She is most certainly both. Mist, 


however, is not prone to slaughtering 
parties for fun, or destroying villages 
for no reason other than to relish the 
chaos it creates. That type of wanton 
destruction bores Mist, and she feels 
there are more important things to be 
accomplished than simple demolition. 

Mist discovered how boring - and 
dangerous - destruction for the sake 
of chaos can be when she flew south 
and west with a flight of dragons from 
the glaciers beyond Thar and attacked 
Yulash and Shadow dale. Though the 
destruction of Yulash was mildly amus 
ing to Mist, the pitched battle over Sha- 
dowdale in which many of her 
comrades were destroyed by the river 
witch Selune was simply too dangerous 
to be enjoyed. 

After the battle over Shadowdale, 
Mist moved to the Storm Horn Moun 
tains, west of Cormyr. There she bat 
tled a younger dragon, driving him out 
of his lair and appropriating his hoard. 
During the battle, before Mist sealed 
her victory by tearing through her 
opponent's wings and grounding him, 
she grew overconfident, and the youn 
ger male struck a nearly fatal blow. 
Mist quickly defeated the other dragon 
after that, but it was not the last time 
Mist would pay for toying with her 
adversaries. 

After the battle. Mist remained in the 
Storm Horns, perched over the trade 
route from Suzail to Waymoot, waiting 
for travelers and merchants to provide 
her with what she considered really 
important. In the lair, a flock of ravens 
constantly flutters about, and Mist 
seems able to read their actions, if not 
communicate with them directly, for 
the birds often warn her of approach 
ing attackers when she is asleep. 

Most of the things Mist deems impor 
tant have to do with her personal com 
fort. She is very concerned with her 
diet and maintaining a schedule of reg 
ular and frequent meals. Her raids on 
villages or caravans usually occur 
around her numerous mealtimes. 

Like all red dragons. Mist is inter 
ested in obtaining material wealth. But 
she is often bored by simple items of 


gold or silver. The only things that 
really interest her, other than food, are, 
in fact, music and story. For this reason, 
Mist is likely to attack caravans that 
may be carrying magical items that can 
hold her interest - like mechanical 
singing birds or talking mirrors. Of 
course, adventurers can sing and tell 
tales, too, and Mist has been known to 
kidnap people and keep them around as 
long as they keep her entertained. 

It was on one of her frequent raids on 
the caravans traveling to Suzail that 
Mist first got involved with Olive 
Ruskettle. The halfling thief was travel 
ing as a bard to the wedding of the sage 
Dimswart's daughter in Suzail when 
Mist carried off the wagon she was in. 
Mist was delighted to have snagged 
such a wonderfully entertaining prize, 
and kept Olive in a cage in her lair. 

Olive kept Mist entertained until the 
swordswoman Alias, with the help of 
Akabar Bel Akash and Dragonbait, res 
cued the halfling. Alias challenged and 
defeated Mist in a feint of honor. 
Though Mist was honorable enough to 
follow the rules of combat during the 
feint, she was set to attack the heroes 
when Alias escaped with Olive. The 
dragon was so offended by her loss to 
Alias that she vowed to destroy the 
swordswoman. 

Though she came close on many occa 
sions, Mist never saw Alias again. How 
ever, the dragon did catch up with Olive 
Ruskettle outside of Yulash. Again Mist 
delayed devouring the halfling so the 
pseudo-bard could sing for her. This 
time it was the saurial paladin Dragon- 
bait who rescued Olive through a feint 
of honor - though with considerable 
help from Olive. 

The defeated dragon agreed to help 
Dragonbait rescue Alias and Akabar 
from The Abomination of Moander. In 
the initial skirmish, Akabar was res 
cued from The Abomination. However, 
in a spectacular battle over Westgate, 
Mist and The Abomination destroyed 
each other. 

This may not be the end of Mist's 
existence in the Realms. The Cult of the 
Dragon has certainly learned of Mist's 


87 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


demise and it is possible they may 
attempt to revive her as a dracolich. 
The huge amount of damage Mist must 
have sustained in the battle with The 
Abomination of Moander will certainly 
make any resurrection difficult, if not 
impossible. 

If Mist were to return, however, she 
would certainly wish to revenge herself 
on Alias and her companions. In fact, 
she would very likely hold a grudge 
against most adventurers, blaming 
them all for her misfortune. 

Mist will also retain many of the foi 
bles that made her unlike most red 
dragons. Whether as a dragon or a dra 
colich, Mist will undoubtedly retain her 
interest in music and story. If an adven 
turer can't divert the dragon with a 
song or tale, Mist will likely give them 
plenty of time to escape anyway. She 
always toys with her adversaries 
before dispatching them, a habit that 
cost her her life. 

GewNa Moonslngeii 

ARMOR CLASS: 6 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 85 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
14th-Level Human Great Druid 
S:ll 1:15 W:18 D:15 C:17 CH:17 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Animal friendship, 
ceremony, speak with animals. 

• Second-level - Barkskin, charm 
person, locate plants. 

• Third-level - Call lightning, neu 
tralize poison, protection from 
fire. 

• Fourth-level - Animal summoning 
I, call woodland beings, plant door. 

• Fifth-level - Commune with 
nature, insect plague, wall of fire. 

• Sixth-level - Cure critical wounds, 


fire seeds, wall of thorns, weather 
summoning. 

• Seventh-level - Animate rock, con 
jure earth elemental, control 
weather finger of death. 

Like any druid of seventh level or 
higher in the Moonshaes, Genna can 
create a rune stick. The rune stick is a 
kind of magical wand that can be cre 
ated by a druid of seventh level or high 
er who also has a Dexterity of 14 or 
better. The rune stick is a short piece of 
oak about 12" long, carved with a 
detailed pattern of runes, and then 
wrapped in mistletoe or holly. It nor 
mally can be used to store up to five 
spell levels of druidical spells. However, 
the great druid of the Moonshaes can 
put up to 20 levels of spells into a rune 
stick. 

The stick takes ld4 hours to create 
for every spell level put into it (roll sepa 
rately for each spell). Upon completing 
the rune stick, the druid must cast the 
spells he or she wishes to store upon it. 
The rune stick crumbles to dust one 
month after creation. It cannot be 
recharged. 

The spells stored in the rune stick are 
cast at the level of the druid who 
enchanted the rune stick. It can be used 
by any druid who knows the command 
word. It can also be used by any maiden 
of pure heart (use the unicorn test to 
determine this) who knows the com 
mand word. However, when used by a 
non-druid, the effects of the spells (radi 
us, range, damage, etc.) are halved, and 
the victim receives a + 4 modifier to his 
saving throw. 

Physical description: Genna is a 
pleasantly rounded older woman. She 
has a plump, lined face, and a warm 
smile. Her hair is brown and worn 
short. As befits her position as repre 
sentative of the Goddess, she is very 
motherly. She seems to be middle-aged, 
but she is older than she looks. 

Generally, Genna wears the robes of 
her station as great druid of the Moon 
shaes. 

Equipment: Genna usually has a 
torque of the goddess (see description 
of Robyn) and a druid staff. This staff is 


like Robyn's Staff of the White Well, but 
has the head of a bear carved into its 
top and can only be used to summon 
bears. It cannot be used to summon a 
fire storm or summon weather as the 
Staff of the White Well can. 

If she knows she is going into a fight, 
Genna wears leather armor. Genna will 
also enchant some fire seeds and a rune 
stick as needed. 

Personality: Since she took over 
the position of great druid of the Moon 
shaes, Genna has maintained a low pro 
file, preferring to maintain Myrloch 
Vale and lead her fellow druids by 
example rather than autocratic com 
mand. Her humble attitude is shown by 
her favorite shape-changes. She would 
rather be a sparrow than an eagle, a 
shrew than a wolf, a lizard than a viper. 

However, she is fiercely dedicated to 
the defense of the Goddess, and brooks 
no opposition. 

Motivations: Genna always felt 
inferior to her sister, the highly charis 
matic Brianna Moonsinger. When 
Brianna was slain, the Circle of Druids 
was surprised to discover that Genna 
was the best qualified to succeed her 
sister, but no more surprised than Gen 
na herself was. 

She buried her resentment of Brian 
na to be the best great druid the Isles 
had ever seen, but under her dominion, 
the druids of other isles were slain or 
driven out, the Leviathan was slain, and 
the principal Moonwell defiled despite 
all the efforts of Genna and the remain 
ing druids. 

Thus, when Hobarth managed to 
insert the Heart of Kazgaroth into Gen 
na as she sat defenseless in the statue 
form created by the Goddess in a last 
effort to protect her servants, the heart 
fed on Genna's resentment and frustra 
tion to turn her into a willing servant of 
Bhaal, dedicated to destroying what she 
had lived so long to preserve. 

Background notes: Genna is the 
sister of the former great druid, Brian 
na Moonsinger (Robyn's mother). She 
gained her sister's rank when Brianna 
was slain trying to stop Kazgaroth from 
manifesting. 


88 




















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


When Kazgaroth finally arrived, Gen- 
na organized the spiritual defense of 
Corwell against the monster, but she 
would have failed without Prince Tris 
tan and Robyn to turn the tide with the 
Sword of Cymrych Hugh and Robyn's 
burgeoning druidic powers. 

Recognizing that Robyn had potential 
to be the greatest druid the Isles had 
ever seen, Genna took her under her 
wing. But before she could finish the 
girl's training, Hobarth struck with his 
army of undead and managed to defeat 
the assembled druids. 

After the fight at the Moonwell, in 
which the Goddess turned Genna and 
her fellow druids to stone to thwart 
Hobarth, he took the Heart of 
Kazgaroth and implanted it in her 
statue. This corrupted the great druid 
and turned her into an anti-druid, with 
all the powers of a druid but dedicated 
to the destruction of the Goddess and 
the ascendancy of Bhaal. 

Okotampe 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 21 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: S 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Korobokuru Wu Jen 
S:ll 1:16 W:12 D:14 C:12 CH:8 

Proficiencies: Chanting, fire build 
ing, survival, tracking. 

Commonly used spells: Animate 
wood, ghost light, secret signs, shield, 
animal companion, animate water, 
detect shape-changer, commune with 
lesser spirit, scry, shout, stone shape, 
and true sight. 

"There must be a special kami in 
Celestial Heaven that watches over 
such things as the korobokuru. For if 
there wasn't, I am certain I would have 
killed Okotampe years ago!" - 
Prince Gisen 


A korobokuru dwarf only distantly 
related to men, Okotampe is small 
(shorter than 4' tall), wiry, and thin. 
From his bowlegged stance, to his wild 
beard and hair liberally coated in bear 
fat, he is almost a throwback to a time 
before the Celestial Ones taught men to 
walk upright and use fire. He never 
bathes, wears filthy rags, spits, curses, 
yells, and is invariably rude. 

If others stare at him and call him 
names, it doesn't matter to Okotampe; 
he has little use for humans anyway, 
considering them little more than bar 
barian invaders. His culture is a far old 
er one, with its own mystical rhythms 
and ancient powers. 

Okotampe is a shaman - a sorcerer 
of skill among his people. Through their 
totem animals and legends which were 
old before the first kings, the korobo 
kuru people have access to the Spirit 
World itself. To them, the Bear Gods and 
Owl Women walk the earth in invisible 
form, invisible to lesser beings, and visi 
ble to the korobokuru only through 
their use of their magical symbols and 
nature signs. 

Okotampe is the only one of the com 
panions of Monkey who knows of 
Onoye's true spirit origin. Believing her 
to be a guide from the Owl Woman, he 
travels with her, hoping Onoye will lead 
him to a new totem spirit to replace his 
tribes' old one. Because he believes the 
willow woman to be from the gods, he 
is understandably overly protective of 
her. He tolerates the other members of 
Monkey's group as associates of his 
spirit guide with their own arcane pur 
poses in the gods' plans. 

Okotampe wears no armor and usu 
ally carries no weapons, preferring to 
use whatever comes to hand. He is 
extremely fond of clubs and other 
large, heavy objects. These he wields 
with a strength far greater than his 
appearance warrants. During the battle 
for the village of Tomobiki, he acquired 
a rusting iron tetsubo, which he now 
uses exclusively, when he uses a weap 
on at all. 

Dungeon Master's information: 
Players are likely to encounter Oko 


tampe in almost any locale, although he 
often returns to visit Monkey at his tem 
ple in Tomobiki. As an encounter, Oko 
tampe is more likely to be an 
aggravation than an experience. He is 
likely to talk in riddles, refuse to divulge 
information, yell at the adventurers, 
insult anyone whom he meets, and gen 
erally make a nuisance of himself. 

Okotampe has no fixed abode, prefer 
ring to live in the trees or in the nearest 
cave. His needs are few, and he will 
show little or no interest in treasure or 
possessions. In most cases, he will 
either ignore the adventurers or bore 
them to death with long, rambling sto 
ries about spirits, animals, and the 
korobokuru gods. The exception is if 
there are spirit people among the party 
members. These people he will treat 
with great deference and respect, tak 
ing time to talk to them while ignoring 
most of the other party members. 

ONcrye 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: Special 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Seventh-Level Kami 

S:18 1:16 WTO D:17 C:14 CH:17 

Though Onoye is technically immor 
tal, she can be dispelled to her willow 
grove after 40 hit points of damage. 

Proficiencies: Calligraphy, eti 
quette, music, reading/writing, singing, 
and cooking. 

Commonly used spells: Bless, 
detect evil, cure light wounds, com 
mune with greater and lesser spirits, 
speak with plants. 

If there is perfection, then it is mir 
rored in a moving stream. And if there 
is perfection in woman, it is Onoye, for 
like a stream, she mirrors Heaven and 
yet has hidden, shifting depths below 


89 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 



her peace. 

The book of yan: A tiny woman of 
delicate grace and perfect bearing, 
Onoye is the embodiment of refined 
beauty. Her clear voice and simple, 
unpretentious manners belie a careful 
ly sheltered upbringing, perhaps as the 
daughter of a great lord or even a dai- 
myo. 

But Onoye is more than a mere orna 
ment of a Shogonate castle. She has an 
innate understanding of the human 
soul, of the complexities of social rela 
tionships, of the inner meanings of con 
versation. Her passions run deep 
beneath her calm exterior; her endur 
ance is astonishing, and her fury and 
savagery can explode without warning 
or source. At these times, she seems to 
be more than human, to be truly a force 
of nature. 

Onoye's secret: This is not too far 
from the truth. For Onoye is actually a 
lesser nature spirit - an earthbound, 
minor deity more goddess than human. 
She has left her previous life to wander 
the earth in a mortal form, seeking ful 
fillment unattainable through any oth 
er path. Her fate is thus intertwined 
with Sanehiro/Monkey's, as he seeks to 
rise above his human weaknesses. 

Willow and Monkey: The essential 
yin and yang of these two people is evi 
dent in their relationship to each other. 
Early in their travels, Sanehiro, rootless 
and seeking comfort, imagined that he 
was in love with the beautiful willow 
woman. Her gentle rebuff of his fum 
bling attentions caused Sanehiro to 
reconsider things, so that eventually he 
came to view her more as a daughter 
than a lover. However, as Sanehiro 
gained greater self-awareness, culmi 
nating in his rebirth as the shukenja 
Monkey, his courage and honesty 
touched something deeper within 
Onoye. This dimly realized feeling has 
blossomed into the fire of love - a love 
which can never be realized as Monkey 
is destined for greater things. 

Onoye's kami powers are few but 
potent, and she is reluctant to reveal 
them, fearing that her secret might be 
divined. Without actually lying, she has 


constructed an elaborate background, 
implying some things, agreeing to other 
things, and letting those around her 
supply the missing parts from their 
own imaginations. Sometimes this 
doesn't work; those who know her 
often discover disturbing gaps in her 
knowledge. She knows the working of 
nature and the seasons, but is con 
founded by such everyday things as the 
ceremonies of the Way of Enlighten 
ment or the names of famous person 
ages. She is strangely uncurious about 
the material world; food, money, or 
shelter mean nothing to her. Yet she is 
fascinated by talk of spirits, magic, and 
the affairs of Heaven. 

Onoye fears little - not even death 
itself. Her greatest fear is of being dis 
covered. It is forbidden for those not in 
communion with the Spirit World to 
know her true nature; should she be 
found out, she would be compelled to 
return to her willow spirit shape in 
shame. This would take her away from 
her beloved shukenja and end her tenu 
ous visit on earth. 

Dungeon Masters information: 

Onoye will always be encountered in 
the company of Sanehiro/Monkey; in 
fact, she will never be more than a few 
yards from his side if possible. She will 
take a polite and gentle interest in the 
adventurers, although she will not 
show any great interest in their affairs 
unless they speak of magic and the Spir 
it World. Her conversation will then 
become more animated, showing a 
bright and sparkling personality 
beneath her passive demeanor. 

Onoye's sorcery enables her to 
appear as a non-magical being; an ordi 
nary woman to all who meet her. Only 
those with some connection to the Spir 
it World will be able to perceive her 
secret. Other spirit folk within a party 
will know almost automatically, but will 
be constrained by the laws of Heaven 
from revealing her identity. Shukenja 
and other enlightened souls may have 
an inkling. 

Onoye wears no armor, and carries 
almost no weapons. Her only armament 
is the slender dagger all high-born 


women carry to defend themselves 
against dishonor. Her greatest powers 
come from her spirit ability to raise the 
force of nature against her foes. This 
ability, which may be used only once 
per week, covers a range of one mile, 
and has a duration of up to ldlO 
rounds, acts as a combination of the fol 
lowing spells: Elemental burst, animate 
water, cloudburst, move earth, whirl 
wind and call (animals only). Onoye will 
only invoke this power if Sanehiro/ 
Monkey is in severe danger - other 
wise, she will not use her abilities, even 
to save her own life. 

Or gauTh of ZhewDL 
Keep 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 45 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2d4 + 3 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Fighter 
S:16 1:15 W:16 D:16 015 CH:16 

Physical description: Orgauth is a 
human male in early middle age. His 
dirty blond hair virtually masks his few 
gray hairs. He often wears the russet 
and scarlet colors of his livery; his arms 
are a russet raven striking, talons out, 
on a scarlet field. In combat he wears 
his plate armor and wields a bastard 
sword two-handed. 

Equipment: Orgauth's armor is 
plate mail +2 and he usually wields a 
bastard sword +2, though he has a 
crossbow of distance with which he is 
equally proficient. He also has a ring of 
human influence and carries a set of 
eyes of the eagle in a pouch for using 
with the crossbow. 

Personality: Orgauth seems to be a 
simple merchant-fighter, blunt in his 
ways and with just the bare cunning 


90 














































necessary to survive as a trader in an 
essentially evil city. Actually, Orgauth is 
a ruthless, subtle schemer. 

Motivations: Orgauth is torn 
between his lust for control and his 
wish to maintain the trade relations 
that enrich him. Outwardly, he sup 
ports the Zhentarim (indeed, his goals 
and theirs often coincide), but he also 
supports activities that work against 
the Zhentarim, or betrays their more 
reckless or ill-founded projects. 

He works to maintain the rule of 
Maalthiir in Hillsfar as a check against 
the expansionist policies of the Zhen 
tarim. He believes that an empire cen 
tered on Zhentil Keep would overreach 
and weaken the city's military strength 
and earn it the enmity of those con 
quered, which would hurt his trade 
propects. 

One of his major allies is Manxam the 
beholder. 

Background notes: Orgauth start 
ed as the younger son of one of the 
nobles of Zhentil Keep. As a younger 
son, he devoted himself to warfare for 
15 years, fighting many times in the 
armies of Zhentil Keep. 

In the meantime, his father and older 
brother died, and Orgauth retired from 
the military to become one of the lords 
of Zhentil Keep. He earns much respect 
as a seasoned veteran of the Moonsea 
wars and is now a wealthy merchant in 
his own right. 

He has built his ore-refining (mostly 
taking ore from a mine he discovered in 
a campaign against the ores) and 
caravan-running concerns into much 
coinage, and he maintains, in the guise 
of a normal work force, a strong body 
guard of about 60 or 70 men-at-arms. 
This last shrewd measure undoubtedly 
has ensured his own survival in the 
noble heirarchy of Zhentil Keep 
throughout the rise of the Zhentarim. 
There have been several attempts on 
his life from rivals from among the 
Zhentarim, and all have failed, thanks 
to the watchfulness of his bodyguard. 

Manshoon considers Orgauth one of 
his "loyal opposition," men who do not 
see the wisdom in Zhentil Keep's expan 


sionism, but support him still as the 
best person to really run the city. 
Orgauth is also consulted by Lord 
Chess, and Orgauth frequently argues 
the Zhentarim cause to him. He works 
against the Zhentarim on a more subtle 
level. 

Other notes: Orgauth's bodyguard 
consists of five fifth-level fighters (the 
sergeants who lead the others), nine 
fourth-level fighters, 12 third-level 
fighters, 20 second-level fighters, and 
30 first-level fighters. His real work 
force consists of about 50 more zero- 
level fighters who are being trained in 
both warfare and surveillance. 

All of these fighters are trained in rid 
ing, spear, short bow, and broad sword 
and shield. They are not actually an 
effective cavalry force, but they can 
stay on their horses long enough to get 
to a fight and get off to fight. 

Because of Orgauth's opposition to 
the Zhentarim, he can be a source of 
adventure for characters who are 
interacting with the Zhentarim. 

He can warn (through indirect com 
ments or agents, never by his own 
direct statement) people that the Zhen 
tarim do not always live up to the spirit 
of their contracts. 

He can hire adventurers himself to 
guard his caravans or perform special 
missions for him, particularly in times 
of stress when he wants all of his own 
guard around him to protect him. 

Conversely, he can become the villain 
you hate to hate. He has a certain cour 
tesy and gentility that most of the Zhen 
tarim lack. He is an evil man, but he 
does not want to spread his form of vil 
lainy all over the Inner Sea, as the Zhen 
tarim do. He wants to be left alone to 
oppress his workers, buy and sell 
slaves, and manipulate the minerals 
markets for his own profit. 

If commanded by the Zhentarim to 
kill the characters, he will certainly try 
to do so. His first priority is his own 
well-being. Still, if he thought that the 
characters might put a spoke in the 
wheel of the Zhentarim advance, he 
might look the other way and let them 
continue, rather than reveal them to 


Manshoon. After all, if Manshoon and 
Fzoul were destroyed, a man could get 
back to making a dishonest profit in 
peace again, and Zhentil Keep would be 
a much less stressful place to live. 

He can be contacted through his offic 
es in his citadel in the northeastern area 
of Zhentil Keep. He is generally in Zhen 
til Keep, though he occasionally accom 
panies his caravans elsewhere around 
the Moonsea. 

If encountered with a caravan, he has 
one troop (25 men) of his bodyguard 
with him. The rest are minding the 
home front. 

PauuLdo 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 9" 

Hit Points: 60 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: S (3'1") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fifth-Level Halfling Fighter 

Seventh-Level Thief 
S:14 1:15 W:13 D:18 C:18 CH:16 

Thief skills: Pick pockets 75%, 
open locks 72%, find/remove traps 
60%, move silently 75%, hide in 
shadows 68%, hear noise 30%, climb 
walls 79%, read languages 30%. 

Physical description: Pawldo is a 
male halfling, brown-haired, an inch or 
two over 3' in height. He is over 60 
years old, with graying hair, but his 
smiling face is cleanshaven and free of 
wrinkles. 

Equipment: Pawldo's usual equip 
ment is a short bow and a short sword. 
When he knows he is going into com 
bat, he wears leather armor as he finds 
metal too constricting. 

Personality: Pawldo is brave but 
mildly pessimistic. He is likely to com 
ment on the hopelessness of a situation 
before going forth to prove himself 
wrong. This is a last vestige of his heri- 


91 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


tage as a halfling, a race which, in gen 
eral, prefers building a warm fire in a 
hearth at home to burning out an ore 
village. 

However, unlike his more staid kin 
folk, Pawldo is an adventurer. He goes 
where prudent halflings do not follow. 
He has found a merchant's life fits this 
penchant of his for exploration and 
excitement full well. However, he is 
likely to add a dash of larceny to his rec 
ipe for successful merchantry, and is as 
likely to running a confidence game as 
he is to deal in honest merchandise. 

Motivations: Pawldo has three 
main motivations. The most important 
is friendship. In his early 50s he struck 
up an acquaintance with Prince Tristan 
and Robyn, and this ripened into a 
friendship that could not be broken by 
the most dire circumstances. Pawldo's 
other two motivations are thrill seeking 
and greed. In many ways, these are two 
aspects of the same motivation, for he 
often attempts confidence games more 
for the thrill of succeeding in fooling 
people four times his size (by weight, 
anyway) than for the monetary reward. 

Background notes: Pawldo is a 
merchant who was born and raised in 
Lowhill in Corwell, but who has sailed 
all over the Sword Coast. 

He first made the acquaintance of 
Prince Tristan when he sold the prince 
some weapons he had gained on a mer- 
chanting trip. They talked of weapons 
and hunting, and became hunting com 
panions. Robyn, Tristan's constant com 
panion as a child, found that she also 
liked the little man, and willingly 
included him in on any plans they made 
for adventuring. 

But every year Pawldo left to make a 
trading voyage among the Moonshaes 
and sometimes to the Sword Coast. One 
year, he decided to deal in dogs and 
arranged to find a hunting pack leader 
for his friend, the prince. On his travels 
he found the great moor hound Can- 
thus and sold the dog to Prince Tristan. 
Since his travels for the year were 
done, he resumed his usual non 
traveling place at Tristan's side and 
became enmeshed in the battle against 


Kazgaroth. He helped rescue Finellen 
and Keren the bard from the firbolgs, 
lent his archery skills against the 
Northmen invaders along the road to 
Caer Corwell, led the archers of his peo 
ple in the defense of Caer Corwell, and 
accompanied his friends in the final bat 
tle against Kazgaroth - almost dying, 
except for the intervention of the God 
dess when the monster was slain. 

The next year, he was selling phony 
crystals in Alaron when he saw Prince 
Tristan and Daryth being arrested by 
High King Carrathal's Scarlet Guard, 
and acted to rescue them. From there, 
he spied on the high king and partici 
pated in the final battle against Cyndre, 
High King Carrathal, and their duergar 
and sahuagin allies. 

Finally, Pawldo joined Tristan and 
Robyn in the final battle against 
Hobarth and Bhaal himself. 

Other notes: Pawldo is an ideal 
introduction to the Moonshaes. His 
merchant adventures take him 
throughout the isles and to the Sword 
Coast, and his stories of the glories of 
the Moonshaes, and perhaps some 
hints of the possibilities of high adven 
ture in the mountains of the Jotunheim, 
or against the troll-folk of Moray, could 
lure adventurers across the sea from 
the Sword Coast. 

Moreover, Pawldo, while confident of 
his own abilities, is not unaware that 
the seas on which he travels can be full 
of dangers, and he has been known to 
employ adventurers as guards for his 
goods and person. 

Pawldo is also inclined to get into 
trouble for a good cause. If a player 
character befriends him, then gets into 
trouble with the authorities or some 
powerful private citizen, Pawldo may 
well come to his rescue, preferably 
without having to directly assault any 
turnkeys. 

Note that Pawldo is quick and sturdy, 
but not incredibly strong. He does not 
get involved in stand-up battles if he can 
help it - he'd much rather sit back and 
snipe with his bow and arrows. 


Pterzgelrzosj 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 6" 

Hit Points: 102 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
(+1) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6'4") 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
16th-Level Human Paladin 
S:17 1:14 W:16 D:14 C:15 CH:17 

Piergeiron, "The Paladinson," is a tall 
and muscular, strikingly handsome 
man with a firm jaw and dark eyes. His 
hair, curly and brown, is flecked with 
grey at the temples, but this only adds 
to the regal aura of the noble man. 

Of the reputed 16 Lords of Water- 
deep, Piergeiron is the only one openly 
known and recognized, and as such, he 
speaks for the others in matters con 
cerning the city. He is the commander 
of the watch, warden of the guard, and 
overmaster of the guilds. His word is 
law in the City of Splendors, even above 
the guild law, and thus he is in a posi 
tion to make many enemies. 

Even if a foe was to catch the young 
lord on one of the many instances that 
he is alone, he would find himself faced 
by an opponent quite able to take care 
of himself. Dressed in his full plate mail 
armor and his shining shield +1, 
emblazoned with golden scales atop the 
head of a war hammer, the symbol of 
Tyr the even-handed, the Paladinson 
fears no battle and has yet to be bested. 

He wields Clamorour, a holy avenger, 
the sword of his father, and though he 
prefers diplomacy to battle, he fights 
with the knowledge that he is blessed 
by his god. 

"Yet, within Waterdeep, Piergeiron 
has little to fear. He handles his position 
and authority with such caring and 
dedication to his responsibility that the 
Waterdhavians, even those with per- 


92 













































MINOR CHARACTERS 


sonal grudges against him know that 
they could not find a better man for the 
position. The only ones who would 
want to bring harm to this Lord are 
those against the city itself. 

"... and his decree is the only absolute 
law in this city of interpretation and 
subtle evasion. As such, he is very safe 
from Waterdhavians - and his life is 
threatened by foreign powers, such as 
Amn, Calimshan, and Luskan, for the 
same reason; he is so above reproach, 
and so able in his administration and 
justice, that the city flourishes." 

- from Waterdeep and the North 
by Ed Greenwood 

Piergeiron weighs his every word 
before he speaks it, and often, under 
standing the tact of silence, keeps his 
thoughts to himself. When he does 
speak, he enunciates every word slowly 
and deliberately, wanting those around 
him to fully grasp the exact meaning 
and connotations of what he has to say. 

Because of this cautious manner of 
speaking, some snicker his other nick 
name, "The Thickskull," behind his 
back. But they are unperceptive, or are 
the ones who should rightly wear the 
insulting mantle themselves. Far from 
stupid, Piergeiron never forgets the 
weight of his position and understands 
the many potential implications of his 
every word. 

He has heard the degrading nick 
name, and he has even laughed about it, 
not confusing the pride and execution 
of his office and his code with the 
destructive pride of self. And Pier 
geiron is smart enough to use this mis 
perception of his mental prowess to his 
advantage. If his political enemies 
underestimate him, he correctly rea 
sons, they will often slip up in their 
dealings with him, not expecting him to 
pick up on the subtleties of the conver 
sation. 

Piergeiron was born with large shoes 
to fill. He was the son of Athar, "The 
Shining Knight," an adventuring paladin 
who captured the imagination of the 
whole Northland with his daring and 
heroic accomplishments. Also called 


"The Arm of Tyr," Athar roamed 
throughout the North, vanquishing evil 
and rescuing whole towns from perse 
cuting and unjust governments. The 
very name of Athar still brings a smile 
and a look of true love and admiration 
to the faces of elders all across the land. 

It is said that Athar was once a Lord 
of Waterdeep, but this has never been 
proven. His son, though, seemed des 
tined for the position from very early in 
his life. Piergeiron, less a wanderer 
than his father, always believed that the 
true fostering of the word of Tyr could 
be better achieved through a strong 
central location, and thus, as soon as he 
had earned respect through deeds of 
valor and conscience, he moved right 
into the position offered him, becoming 
the only visible Lord of the city. 

Even his greatest skeptics soon came 
to understand the young man's value 
and were silenced. In all the years Pier 
geiron has ruled the city, he has rarely 
angered even the most selfish of guilds, 
and has become so well-loved by the 
general populace that nobody, or no 
guild, would dare to strike against him 
in any case, fearing the inevitable, and 
brutal, reprisals that would surely 
befall them. 

Roleplaying tips: Piergeiron is a 
gentle man who seems to walk secure 
in the truth and righteousness of his 
chosen course. Never will adventurers 
meet a man so comfortable in his way 
of life and in his every action. He is 
pleasant and warm, though he doesn't 
speak much, and has a heart and man 
ner that give new heights to the mean 
ing of generosity. 

He is comfortable in battle as well, 
knowing that Tyr supports his every 
move. He swings Clamorour easily and 
ably, and accepts the possibility of his 
own death without fear. 

Though Waterdeep bears little sem 
blance to Camelot, Piergeiron just 
might be the Forgotten Realms' version 
of King Arthur. He believes in justice, 
even for the poor, and executes it with 
his every move and every word. "Might 
for right" would be an apt motto. 

Certainly his father would be proud 


of him, and no longer does he walk in 
Athar's shadow. Even Athar's most 
devoted admirers admit that his son 
excels in ways the elder did not, ways 
that might prove more important to the 
future of the Northland in general. 

For Piergeiron is just the type of lead 
er who will transform the savage 
Northland into a united realm of peace. 

Ziz)<5 PtZAtis 

ARMOR CLASS: 0 
MOVE: 6' 

HIT DICE: 11 

Hit Points: 88 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ldlO 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: +1 or better 

weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Supra-geniuis 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Commonly used spells: Fireball, 
lightning bolt, cloud kill, feeblemind, 
mind blank, death spell, cacodemon, 
guards and wards, contact other 
planes. 

Zrie Prakis' appearance is enough to 
strike fear into anyone's heart. The 
18th-level lich is covered with age- 
worn, rotting, translucent flesh, pulled 
tight over its skeleton. Its black, gaping 
eye sockets contain pinpoints of sharp, 
red light. The undead sorcerer's laugh 
is hollow and deep. And like all liches, 
Zrie Prakis' touch causes ldlO points of 
freezing damage and paralyzes those 
who fail to make their saving throws. 
The staff of power he carries is equally 
deadly. 

The story of Zrie Prakis' death at the 
hands of his lover Cassana is quite well 
known in the Realms, and is even the 
subject of a popular opera performed 
frequently in The Living City. The 
opera makes the tale out to be a trag 
edy, though it is more commonly told as 
a horror story. Zrie Prakis is seen as a 
kind of bogeyman throughout the 


93 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Realms, and parents often invoke his 
name to keep young children in line. 

Zrie Prakis met the sorceress Cassana 
many years ago while they were both 
apprentices, just beginning their stud 
ies of the magical arts. They fell in love, 
pledged their eternal faithfulness, then 
were forced to part. 

During the years of their separation, 
both Zrie Prakis and Cassana grew very 
powerful. The mage also grew obses 
sively proud of himself and what he 
considered his unique powers. Zrie 
Prakis adopted for his sigil three inter 
locking rings, a common enough sym 
bol in the Realms, but decided that it 
should be his symbol alone. He 
destroyed an ale house in Sembia sim 
ply because the innkeep happened to 
choose three interlocking rings to grace 
his sign. 

It is not surprising then, that when 
Zrie Prakis met Cassana again, he tried 
to prove himself the greater mage. He 
was not, and Cassana killed him in prov 
ing it. Cassana gathered Zrie Prakis' 
remains and kept them in a glass sar 
cophagus next to her bed. Eventually, 
she resurrected him as a lich. 

Zrie Prakis' existence was linked to 
Cassana's wand, and the sorceress used 
it to control her undead lover. The clos 
er Zrie Prakis remained to the wand, 
the greater his power. And though the 
wand kept Zrie Prakis from acting 
directly against Cassana, he plotted 
against her from the day she brought 
him back from the dead. 

The lich was destroyed again in the 
battle that finally brought down Cas 
sana. When the sorceress's wand was 
cast into a parallel dimension, the 
source of Zrie Prakis' existence was cut 
and he tumbled to dust. Liches are not 
so easily destroyed, however, and the 
Realms may hear from Zrie Prakis 
again. 

Zrie Prakis was a vengeful creature, 
capable of great evil. He served Cassana 
well, though he constantly sought ways 
to be free of her control. The lich often 
contacted other planes and summoned 
horrible creatures to serve the sorcer 
ess. Those who seek to conquer Zrie 


Prakis or his allies will certainly 
encounter creatures such as the crystal 
elemental he brought to this plane to 
capture Alias. 

In his first incarnation as a lich, how 
ever, Zrie Prakis was a servant of Cas 
sana, and thus completely subject to 
her will. In fact, he was only one of a 
number of creatures that served the 
dark sorceress. If encountered as a ser 
vant of Cassana, he will likely be only 
part of a larger force of monsters - like 
the kalmari. 

KaIodar) 

FREQUENCY: Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: -6 (see below) 

MOVE: 6" 

HIT DICE: 3 
% IN LAIR: 100% 

TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: Idl0/ld6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: +2 or better 
weapons to hit (see below) 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 100% 
INTELLIGENCE: Average 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral Evil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

The kalmari in its natural state is an 
amorphous being of a mistlike consist 
ency with a 3' long, tapering tail. The 
most striking thing about the kalmari is 
its jaws, which seem to stretch almost 
all the way around its body. Set below 
the kalmari's two unblinking yellow 
eyes, the mouth is filled with huge 
pointed teeth. However, adventurers 
are likely to first encounter the kalmari 
while it is possessing a host from this 
plane. 

To be called to this plane, a kalmari 
must possess a body made of materials 
from this plane. It prefers to possess a 
living host, which it then devours from 
the inside, but will also be contained by 
a non-living shell created to give it full 
use of its terrible jaws. 

The body being possessed retains its 


natural armor class, but will only take 
10 points of damage before it splits and 
falls apart. After the host is destroyed, 
the kalmari will emerge, making a noise 
like a thousand hissing snakes. The 
kalmari can only stay on this plane 
without a host or magical shell for 10 
minutes. After that time, it is sent hur 
tling back to Acheron. 

The kalmari's jaws inflict ldlO points 
of damage and its tail only ld6. How 
ever, the kalmari can entangle a victim 
with its tail when it hits with a natural 
20. Only when the tail is severed, by 
doing 10 points of damage specifically 
to it, is the victim free. Otherwise the 
adventurer is helpless. 

It is the mouth of the kalmari that is 
most feared, however. Though the 
kalmari's bite is not deadly, the monster 
can swallow a creature whole on any 
hit over 20% (4 or more over the 
required number to hit) or on a natural 
20. The creatures will be digested in a 
number of rounds equal to its level or 
number of hit dice. After that time, the 
creature cannot be resurrected. The 
kalmari will not attempt to swallow 
anything else until the creature is dead. 

The kalmari's one weakness is that it 
cannot digest magic. It will vomit up 
any magic item swallowed with a crea 
ture immediately upon the death of the 
creature possessing it. The kalmari can 
be slain with any magical weapon 
which it has eaten once and rejected. 
These weapons have an added +2 to 
hit the kalmari, and also gain +2 to the 
damage bonus they normally possess, 
but only against that kalmari. Note, too, 
that a kalmari can only be slain with a 
weapon it once ate and weapons eaten 
and rejected by other kalmari are treat 
ed as normal magic weapons. 


94 















































RauglotbgaR 

FREQUENCY: Unique 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: -2 
MOVE: 9"/24" 

HIT DICE: 11 
Hit Points: 88 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3 (claw/claw/bite) 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: Id8/ld8/3dl0 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Save as 22 hit dice 
monster 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: L 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Created by the Cult of the Dragon, 
Rauglothgar was the second most pow 
erful dracolich in the Realms, behind 
only the blue, huge great wyrm Shar- 
grailar. He was a dracolich so long, that 
the preserved flesh and hide finally just 
wore out and fell apart, much like a 
man's favorite pair of shoes. He is now a 
huge skeletal form with glowing red 
lights floating in his eye sockets. 

Rauglothgar was already old by the 
time man came to the Thunder Peaks. 
In his youth, he had flown and fought 
against many of his kind, completely 
clearing the air space above the Thun 
der Peaks of other dragonkind. His 
hoard was the largest ever assembled 
by a dragon. 

He watched as men began to carve 
empires from the Inner Sea lands. He 
watched them battle the kobolds, ores, 
and bugbears for passage through his 
mountains. He grew afraid, for man 
brought magic, magic even more pow 
erful than he could wield. Magic power 
ful enough to slay Rauglothgar. 

As men populated the Inner Sea 
lands, Rauglothgar flew less often, and 
other dragonkind began to return to 
the Thunder Peaks. When the cult 
approached him with their offer of 
eternal life, eternal strength, and 
immunity to many powerful magics, he 
readily agreed. It helped that they 
offered to increase his already stagger 
ing hoard. 


He was one of the first dragons to 
undergo the complicated and lengthy 
ritual to become a dracolich. As the 
years passed, his hoard grew, and 
Rauglothgar began to become bored. 
Eternal life was an insidious curse, soon 
becoming eternal boredom. With the 
cult at his beck and call, and his lich sta 
tus, no one could stand against him. 

Then came a slip of girl, brought to 
him by the cult arch-mage The Shadow- 
sil, whose virgin blood he would use to 
maintain his lichdom. A puny female 
who was no threat to his lowest servant 
let alone the great Rauglothgar the 
Proud. But this nothing of a human 
could wield spellfire! The very touch of 
it broke down the magic holding his life 
force to his body. His mightiest magics 
and burning breath could not touch 
her, in fact they merely fed her power. 

Rauglothgar died at the hands of 
Shandril Shessair, wielder of spellfire, 
in the caverns under the Tower Tran 
quil, his lair in the Thunder Peaks. 
Present at the time were the sage and 
arch-mage Elminster, and several 
adventurers of no consequence to him, 
the Knights of Myth Dr armor. They 
plundered his hoard, leaving only the 
lesser coins and gems, and none of the 
magic items. 

Powers of a dracolich: A draco 
lich has all the normal dragon powers it 
had in life, including spell casting abili 
ty, Physical attacks and breath weapons 
are as usual, and spells are cast as if by a 
magic-user of level equal to the dragon's 
hit dice. Therefore, Rauglothgar casts 
spells as if he were an llth-level mage. 
They can detect hidden and invisible 
creatures within 1" per age level (8" for 
Rauglothgar), and cause fear in crea 
tures under six hit dice. 

Its new powers are largely immuni 
ties. Like human liches, a dracolich is 
immune to charm, sleep, enfeeblement, 
polymorph, cold (of any sort), electrici 
ty, insanity and death spells or symbols. 
It can not be controlled by any item of 
dragon control, and it cannot be turned 
by a cleric regardless of level. In addi 
tion, the dracolich is immune to poison, 
paralysis, or being magically held. 


Attacks by elemental means no longer 
get special bonuses due to its undead 
status. Once it wins a single battle as a 
lich, the dracolich is immune to fear of 
all sorts, including magical and psionic. 
As would be expected of any undead 
creature, it has no need to eat, except to 
fuel its breath weapon, and no longer 
sleeps. 

All physical attacks made by the dra 
colich add 2d8 points of chilling dam 
age, similar to human liches. A save vs. 
paralyzation is required, or the victim is 
paralyzed for 2d6 rounds by the touch. 
Once every three days the dracolich 
can attempt to control undead (as the 
potion) creatures within 6". 

To meet the gaze of a dracolich (with 
in 4" of it) can be dangerous. Creatures 
under six hit dice are paralyzed instant 
ly, while the dracolich holds that gaze. 
All others must save at +3. Once a save 
is made, that particular dracolich can 
no longer paralyze that creature by 
gaze. 

The cult plays an active role in the 
activities of all known dracoliches. 
They provide them with treasure and 
teach them the most powerful spells 
they can learn. A large and powerful 
party is always near the dracolich, fre 
quently worshiping within sight of it. 

When a dracolich dies, its life force 
flees to a prepared corpse of a dra- 
gonkin creature, in the case of 
Rauglothgar, a fire drake. If this ani 
mated corpse can consume 10% of the 
remaining flesh of the dracolich within 
one phase of the moon, it will slowly 
metamorphose into a body exactly like 
original dracolich. No one knows if this 
has happened with Rauglothgar, but it 
is sure that the Cult of the Dragon will 
do all it can to see that it does. If so, he 
will lose ld8 hit points permanently to 
grow his new body, just like all draco 
liches. His new body will be fully 
fleshed for decades to come, if it sur 
vives that long. 


95 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


Regis 

ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 26 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Lucky streak; +2 

to all saves and +10% to all thieving 

functions (see below) 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: S (3") 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Fight-Level Halfling Thief 
S:10 1:13 W:15 D:17 C:15 CH:15 

Regis the halfling, or "Rumblebelly," 
as Bruenor calls him, is the most dimin 
utive member of the Companions of the 
Hall. Barely 3' high (with the fluff of his 
curly brown locks) and with a belly too 
round and legs too short for the road, 
Regis may appear to be more of a hin 
drance than an asset to his fellow com 
panions. 

But Bruenor, Drizzt, and Wulfgar 
know better than to estimate the half- 
ling's worth in physical stature alone. 
Witty, crafty, and blessed with more 
than his share of good luck, Regis 
always seems to land on his feet, in the 
right place, and at the right time. He 
wears leather armor and fights, when 
he absolutely has no other choice, with 
a little +2 mace that Bruenor made for 
him. 

Regis has carried the weapon for sev 
eral years, but it certainly isn't worn 
from use. He abhors violence, especial 
ly when it is directed at him, and if his 
words can't get him out of a fight, his lit 
tle legs have been known to outrun a 
thrown spear. Many times, Regis has 
avoided battle by using his ruby pen 
dant, a magical charm that casts a form 
of hypnosis over anyone viewing it, 
opening them up to suggestions (as the 
third-level magic-user spell) of the half 
ling. The ruby's magic is quite powerful 
and all saves against its hypnotic web 
are made at -2 (-4 if Regis is using the 
gemstone along with his charisma and 


his disarming smile). 

Of course, Regis is not above using 
the ruby to get other things that he 
might desire. He is a master of comfort, 
perfecting the fine arts of eating and 
sleeping. If he can charm someone into 
inviting him over for dinner, or into 
offering him some small trinket that 
they probably don't really want any 
way, then what is the harm? 

Yet not everyone adheres to this phi 
losophy, and Regis rims from a dark 
past indeed. 

He was born in or around the south 
ern city of Calimport; exactly where or 
when, he does not know, nor does he 
have any idea of who his parents were. 
His earliest recollections are of a child 
hood spent alone on the street, begging 
and stealing, and then being adopted by 
some kind-hearted "ladies" of one of 
Calimport's numerous brothels. He 
lived in the house for several years, 
learning the ways and wiles of the 
world, until the ladies introduced him 
to one of their most prominent clients, 
Pasha Pook, master of a powerful 
thieves guild. 

Regis intrigued Pook. With his inno 
cent looks, diminutive size, and nimble 
fingers, the halfling showed great 
potential for the trade. Regis did not 
disappoint. His eyes at a person's belt 
level, he could slip through the packed 
crowd at Calimport's renowned open 
market, picking the fattest purses, and 
his ability to pull off a confidence scam 
was unsurpassed by any in the guild. 
He rose up fast through the ranks, 
becoming a burglar in only a few short 
years. 

But except for those at the very top 
echelons of power, life in a thieves' 
guild is hard work. And Regis, too in 
love with comfort, soon ran out of 
patience for his climb to the top. He 
wanted a shortcut. 

The opportunity came unexpectedly 
a few years later. Regis discovered that 
Pook employed a magical ruby in his 
dealings, a charm that lent him an 
advantage over his adversaries and 
influence over his allies. Regis promptly 
relieved his guild master of the ruby 


and took out for the road, envisioning a 
life of comfort as a guild master in some 
other city. 

But Pook proved more determined 
than Regis had anticipated, and wher 
ever the halfling went, Pook's men soon 
appeared. Finally, afters years on the 
run, Regis made his way to Ten-Towns, 
believing this remote frontier settle 
ment to be beyond the long arms of 
Pook. He made many friends there, par 
ticularly his fellow Companions of the 
Hall and Catti-brie, earned a fine living 
as a scrimshander (especially after he 
learned just how effective the hypnotiz 
ing gem could be), and was even once 
elected a spokesman for one of the 
towns. And after the great victory over 
Akar Kessell's goblinoid army, Regis 
somehow came out as the hero and was 
awarded, again with a little help from 
the ruby, the finest palace in all Icewind 
Dale and uncounted gifts of food and 
fine clothing. He had found his true call 
ing, by his estimation, and thought that 
he would live out the rest of his life in 
comfort and luxury. 

But it all came crashing down around 
him in the spring after the battle, when 
Artemis Entreri, Pook's prime assassin, 
arrived in Bryn Shander. Preferring life 
on the road beside his formidable 
friends to death in a palace, no matter 
how fine, Regis took Bruenor up on an 
earlier offer and rushed out onto the 
open tundra to join the Companions of 
the Hall as they began their quest for 
Mithril Hall. 

Roleplaying tips: Regis is good- 
natured, good-humored, and not mali 
cious in the least. Last in battle, and 
proud of it, he strikes only when he has 
run out of other options, or in defense 
of a friend (and hopefully from behind). 

He does his share of mischief, though 
(more than his share), but never sets 
out to hurt anybody. And a good por 
tion of Regis' extraordinary luck lies in 
his ability to temper his actions with 
good sense. He rarely outright steals 
anything, preferring subtle cons, and 
tries hard not to do anything that will 
set someone after him further down 
the road. He uses his ruby with similar 


96 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


caution. 

But Regis is weak in the face of temp 
tation, and if someone, even a friend, 
possesses something that he truly 
desires, and if the opportunity presents 
itself in the right way . . . 

OVrve RuskeTCle 

ARMOR CLASS: 6 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 29 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: S 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Neutral 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Pseudo Bard and Sixth-Level Halfling 

Thief 

S:ll 1:12 W:7 D:18 C:15 CH:13/17 to oth 
er halflings 

Weapon proficiencies: Dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies: 

Reading/writing, alertness, running. 

Adventurers familiar with bards and 
the limitations barding colleges put on 
the induction of halflings will realize 
instantly upon meeting the famous 
Olive Ruskettle that she cannot possibly 
be a true bard. 

In fact, Olive not only isn't a true 
bard, she has never had formal bardic 
training, and the renown attached to 
her name has been slightly misplaced, 
though Olive has done all she can to fos 
ter the confusion. 

The halfling who claims to be Olive 
Ruskettle is really a thief who has 
always aspired to a life of entertaining 
people and the easy living that profes 
sion can bring. Her name is not even 
Olive Ruskettle; the halfling won the 
name and the reputation of Olav 
Ruskettle, a true and famous bard, in a 
dice game. Since that time, "Olive" has 
done her best to maintain her image as 
a bard of great talent. 

Olive's glib tongue, boisterous per 
sonality, and fair talent for singing and 
playing have carried her far. Though 


she has been cornered many times by 
well-traveled folk who claim to have 
seen the "real" Olav Ruskettle perform, 
Olive always manages to lie her way out 
of the confrontation, often claiming 
that the person who claimed to be Olav 
Ruskettle was someone who was trying 
to steal her name and pass himself off 
as a bard. 

Though she claims to be from the 
Cormyr, no one has ever been able to 
pin down Olive's true home. The hazel 
eyed, red-haired halfling prefers it that 
way, too. Though she is charismatic and 
attractive, she realizes her past as a 
thief could cause her a number of prob 
lems if it were discovered. 

But this does not mean Olive has for 
saken her thieving abilities or retired as 
a practitioner of the thieving arts. In 
fact, Olive has found the ability to pick 
pockets with finesse and open locks 
with ease quite a benefit to her life as a 
performer. Patrons who refuse to pay 
her what she feels she deserves for her 
singing often end up missing their 
purses when Olive leaves. 

Olive is only 3' tall, which is short 
even for a halfling. Because of this, and 
the taller races' general reaction to half 
lings as a cute - though somewhat 
prone to pilfering - race of beings, 
Olive tends to react strongly against 
anyone who treats her as less than an 
equal. For example, people who might 
pat Olive on the head or pick her up, 
would find themselves barraged by 
caustic insults and perhaps even fists 
and feet. 

The halfling also hates those who rig 
idly follow the tenets of a specific align 
ment, and especially loathes paladins. 
Olive is insecure about her past as a 
thief and really doesn't consider herself 
a common pickpocket. She believes she 
is only taking what is her due, and often 
that is the case. Those who see the 
world through the blinders of a rigor 
ous devotion to either Law or Chaos, 
Good or Evil, often fail to see the validi 
ty of Olive's perspective. 

In fact, Olive finds she is quite often 
mistaken for a villain when she is sim 
ply taking care of herself the best way 


she knows how. Such was certainly the 
case when she was convinced by the 
evil pseudo-halfling Phalse to help him 
track the swordswoman Alias. Though 
Alias had rescued Olive from the 
dragon Mist, who had kidnapped her, 
Olive had seen Alias attack someone for 
no particular reason, and had heard 
about her attack on a cleric. The 
swordswoman seemed, as Phalse point 
ed out, a very dangerous woman. While 
this was certainly a substantial incen 
tive to aid in her capture, Phalse also 
offered Olive a great deal of money. 

When Olive discovered she had allied 
herself with the wrong party, that Alias 
was not a menace and her creators 
were extremely evil and dangerous, 
Olive helped rescue Akabar Bel Akash 
from CasSana's dungeon, and then 
helped foil the sorceress's plans to gain 
complete control of Alias. 

Olive's adventures with Alias gained 
her a myriad of new songs to sing, and 
Olive is even planning on composing a 
long work telling the adventures of Ali 
as and her companions. The piece, enti 
tled "The Magic Arm Chronicles," may 
take the form of a book or a lay. Olive 
has yet to start it. 

In addition to a number of wonderful 
songs and a wealth of material for new 
tales, Olive gained another very special 
gift from her adventures with Alias. 
Because the halfling helped to rescue 
the Nameless Bard from Cassana's 
dungeon, the true bard, a Harper, gave 
Olive his small, silver harp and crescent 
moon pin, the symbol of the Harpers. 
The Nameless Bard was once banished 
to the awesome Citadel of White Exile 
for attempting to create a being to keep 
his songs alive forever. It is unknown if 
the Harpers will punish him even more 
severely when they learn of this act - 
one that could certainly cause more 
annoyance for the Harpers and the 
Realms than any of the Nameless Bard's 
earlier mistakes. 

Dungeon Masters running Olive 
should emphasize her desire to become 
a true bard and, at the same time, the 
chaotic side of her character that pre 
vents her from doing so. Players will 


97 














































MINOR CHARACTERS 


find Olive interested in any stories or 
songs they can relate to her, though she 
will often get bored if the telling is long 
or the tale too philosophical. 

In return for any stories told to her, 
or food and drink sent her way, Olive 
will regale the adventurers with the sto 
ry of Alias' quest to discover the mean 
ing of her azure bonds. Of course, the 
halfling will emphasize, and even 
expand, her part in the adventure. 

Olive loves strong drink and has a 
very strong constitution. For a person 
of such small stature and slight build, 
Olive eats and drinks quite heavily. 
Player characters attempting to match 
her will likely find themselves far out 
classed. 

When the tales are over and the food 
and drink gone, Olive will depart, pay 
ing as little as possible of the bill. 

NvmaRa "l QU&kT 
Scbe)RON, of 
WATendeep 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 42 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld4 + 2 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Thief 
S:14 1:15 W:15 D:18 C:16 CH:16 

Thief skills: Pick pocket 70%, open 
locks 67%, find/remove traps 55%, 
move silently 65%, hide in shadows 
53%, hear noise 25%, climb walls 94%, 
and read languages 35%. 

Physical description: Nymara 
Scheiron is a brunette, tousle-haired 
and lush-figured female of middle 
years. 

Nymara can appear as a stunningly 
beautiful lady of high station if she 
wishes to do so (very rare), but is more 
often found heavily made up and per 


fumed, dressed revealingly and loung 
ing in an alley or bar at the docks. She 
dons less distinctive garb to follow peo 
ple in the streets without being noticed. 

Equipment: Kitten always carries 
her dagger +2 and, if she anticipates 
combat or other physical danger, puts 
on her leather armor +1. Otherwise, 
she depends on her wiles, her dexterity, 
and her ring of invisibility 

Personality: Kitten is fierce, with 
an occasionally savage temper. She is a 
hard-bitten entertainer and sometime 
thief of Waterdeep's docks, who is ser 
vile to no one. She regards Mirt, 
Durnan, Larissa, and Khelben as her 
dear friends and delights in relaxing 
with them when she is not on the 
streets or poking about in the goods of 
this or that suspicious visitor to the city. 
She distrusts such paragons as Pier- 
geiron, Texter, and Caladorn (though 
she has found that Caladorn can enjoy a 
bit of slumming, if the conditions are 
sufficiently controlled that he doesn't 
come too close to the real world). 

Motivations: Kitten is a practical 
person, and this outlook influences the 
details of many an action by the Lords. 
She knows how this or that decree will 
appear to, or work among, the common 
folk. 

Kitten will not take a copper piece 
from her fellow Lords, fiercely reject 
ing any gifts or charity. Deep inside, she 
feels the ability to influence the work of 
the Lords is its own reward, though she 
prizes her reputation for toughness too 
much to ever say such a thing to her 
friends. 

Background notes: Few people, 
even among the Lords of Waterdeep, 
know Kitten's full name. They just 
know her as "Kitten the Entertainer," 
and leave it at that. No one but her fel 
low Lord, Larissa Neathal, knows that 
she spent most of her younger years as 
an adventurer. Even Larissa does not 
know that she is actually the daughter 
of a noble house of Silverymoon, and 
ran away from an arranged marriage to 
become an adventurer. 

After many adventures, including a 
year as a Zhentarim slave until she 


killed her master and escaped, Kitten 
found herself fighting an evil demigod 
("The Godson," son of Bane) toe-to-toe 
with blades when a summoning by a 
company of adventurers went awry. 
After that experience, she decided that 
a thief and entertainer's life in Water- 
deep was preferable to taking on the 
likes of demigods. However, the Godson 
remembers Kitten, and may yet have 
occasion to pay her another visit. 

Over 10 years ago, after Kitten had 
been back in Waterdeep for three 
years, she was recognized by Mirt and 
recruited by Mirt and Khelben to the 
ranks of the Lords of Waterdeep. 

Kitten was never a member of the 
thieves guild. As a practical matter, she 
was happy when the Lords drove the 
thieves out. It made her life a lot easier. 

Other notes: Kitten is familiar with 
the sewers of Waterdeep and the roofs 
in many districts, using them as high 
ways that are faster and less crowded 
than the streets. 

Kitten is an NPC that characters wan 
dering the seamier side of Waterdeep 
could encounter any time. As an enter 
tainer, she has lost the bloom of youth, 
but is well-experienced. Characters 
might also find her acting uncommonly 
nosy about the doings of passers-by or 
what is in their parcels. The passers-by 
would not notice, of course, but sharp- 
eye player characters would. 

Alternately, if characters are being 
secretive about their doings, they might 
find Kitten nosing around their posses 
sions and accommodations. An attempt 
to run off a nosy thief could suddenly 
land the characters in much trouble 
with the Lords. And, of course, if every 
thing is settled amicably and the Lords 
are satisfied that there is nothing unto 
ward in the characters' actions (as long 
as they haven't killed or maimed Kit 
ten), then perhaps they will have 
impressed the Lords enough to make 
the Lords want to use them in some 
mission of interest to Waterdeep and 
the world. 

Another hook to bring the characters 
into contact with the Lords would be 
for them to rescue Kitten from an over- 


98 

















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


aggressive would-be customer. Of 
course, she could have handled the situ 
ation herself, but she would appreciate 
the assistance, particularly if the res 
cuers are good-looking young men. 
Again, this puts the characters into con 
tact with the Lords without realizing it, 
and gives at least one Lord a reason to 
keep an eye on them and possibly 
recruit them for future problem 
solving. 

And of course, for player characters 
with a taste for fighting demigods, 
there is the menace of The Godson (see 
FR6, DREAMS OF THE RED WIZARDS 
for statistics), who wanders the Realms 
on his father's business (and surrepti 
tiously supports the Zhentarim to 
thwart his demanding father) and may 
find the chance to come to Waterdeep 
and look up old friends. 

STorim Shtv&nh Atod 

ARMOR CLASS: -2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 74 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld8 + 4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Bard 

Seventh-Level Fighter 

Fifth-Level Thief 

S:18(27) 1:15 W:15 D:17 C:16 CH:15 

Thief skills: Pick pocket 65%, open 
locks 62%, find/remove traps 50%, 
move silently 60%, hide in shadows 
48%, hear noise 25%, climb walls 94%, 
and read languages 35%. 

Bard skill: Charm person 34% 
chance and legend lore 16% chance. 

Commonly known druid spells: 

• First-level - Detect magic, pass 
without trace, speak with animals. 

• Second-level - Cure light wounds 
x2, produce flame. 

• Third-level - Cure disease, neu 
tralize poison. 


Physical description: Storm is a 
tall, striking, well-muscled human 
female. She has hair of silvery hue and 
blue-gray eyes. She wears a silver ring 
and a tiara, and a silver bracer on her 
right wrist bearing her badge, a silver 
moon and a silver harp on a black field. 

Equipment: Storm bears a luck 
blade +1, which has one wish left. Her 
silver ring is a ring of protection +2 
and she wears a set of elfin chain mail 
+2 under her normal flowing robes. 
The tiara acts as a ring of fire resistance 
in all ways, including precluding the 
wearing of another magical ring. The 
bracer is just an item of jewelry that 
protects her arm when shooting a bow. 

Storm also has a sling +1 and 12 bid- 
lets +2. She has recently acquired a 
Methild's harp (see FR4, THE MAGIS- 
TER) and is now learning how to use it. 

Personality: Storm has always 
been adventurous and a lover of risks. 
She is quick with a laugh and a song, 
and has little of the grimness that 
marked her sister Sylune and still 
marks Alustriel of Silverymoon and 
The Simbul. 

Motivations: Initially, Storm was 
motivated by a lust for adventure and 
gain. Later, she began to realize that the 
Realms needed a force to balance the 
evil of the Zhentarim and Red Wizards, 
and helped her sister Sylune found the 
Harpers. Now she works in her own 
way for the preservation of the Realms 
from those who would ravage them for 
their own gain. 

Background notes: Of the famous 
five sisters (the others are the ranger 
Dove, Alustriel of Silverymoon, The 
Simbul, and the now-deceased witch 
Sylune), Storm is the youngest and most 
spoiled. Like all of the sisters, she was 
encouraged to follow the path that 
attracted her, and that was the path of 
the rogue, or thief. For several years 
she built up her proficiency in the 
roguish arts until she met Maxan, a 
fighter of Lawful Good tendencies who 
tried to persuade her that she would be 
a better fighter than thief. She denied 
his blandishments until they were 
involved in a battle in which all of her 


thiefly skills were of no use, but her nat 
ural strength of arm (she is the strong 
est of the sisters) slew the foe. 

She adopted the class of fighter and 
soon proved her natural talent for the 
fighting life. Then she met the druid 
Briadorn of the Circle of Shadowdale, 
and it changed her life, as he praised 
her voice and suggested that she pur 
sue the life of a bard. 

Normally, she would not have been 
accepted as a bard because she had pur 
sued her two vocations of thief and 
fighter in the wrong order, but her tal 
ent and motivation were so obvious 
that the druids allowed her into their 
circle as a bard. Since that time, her 
voice has been raised in song in the 
cause of good all over the Inner Sea. 

Long a resident of Shadowdale, she 
used her home as a base for long, far- 
traveling, adventures for her own gain 
(particularly when she was young and 
learning the arts of a thief) and to fur 
ther the ends of the Harpers. Storm is 
sometimes referred to as "The Harper 
of Shadowdale." 

Storm's longtime companion, Maxan, 
was recently destroyed by demons in 
the same adventure in which she 
acquired the Methild's harp, and Storm 
has turned away from the bold and 
wild adventures she enjoyed with him. 

She still acts as an adviser to Doust of 
Shadowdale and stands ready to pro 
tect her village from invaders. 

Other notes: Storm Silverhand is a 
fund of information for the adventurer 
operating from the Dales. While she has 
little inclination to adventure herself, 
she is still ready to assist the Harpers in 
any way she can, which includes train 
ing promising young bards. 

Moreover, as a bard, she is a fund of 
legend lore information about magic 
items found by adventurers, and she 
will do what she can for those she feels 
fit the goals of her organization. 

Since she is somewhat sedentary 
these days. Storm and her friends in 
Shadowdale, such as Elminster, have 
become something of a central clearing 
house for Harper information. 

Also, while Storm's sense of adven- 


99 













































MINOR CHARACTERS 


ture was quelled with the death of her 
longtime companion, the spark is still 
there, particularly because she now has 
an instrument that could be very useful 
in adventuring. She does not admit it to 
herself, but she is looking for a small 
band that could use her assistance. 

The S)mbui 

ARMOR CLASS: -4 
MOVE: 12' 

Hit Points: 75 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld4 + 3 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Serten's spell 

immunity 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Neutral (with 
Good tendencies) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
27th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:14 1:18 W:15 D:18 C:16 CH:17 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Comprehend languag 
es, friends, magic missile, read 
magic. 

• Second-level - Detect invisibility, 
ray of enfeeblement, scare, web. 

• Third-level - Clairvoyance, dispel 
magic, fireball, phantasmal force. 

• Fourth-level - Charm monster, 
confusion, polymorph other, wall 
of fire. 

• Fifth-level - Conjure fire elemen 
tal, extension II, telekinesis, wall of 
force. 

• Sixth-level - Chain lightning, con 
tingency, globe of invulnerability, 
project image. 

• Seventh-level - Banishment, lim 
ited wish, Mordenkainen's sword, 
power word: stun. 

• Eighth-level - Incendiary cloud, 
mass charm, polymorph any 
object. 

• Ninth-level - Meteor swarm, 
shape change, Tire Simbul's synes- 
todwoemer (see FR4, THE MAGIS- 
TER, for description). 

The Simbul has also placed detect 


magic and protection from evil on her 
self with a permanency spell, and used 
a wish to give herself permanent use of 
Serten's spell immunity.. 

Physical description: The Simbul 
is a tall, silver-haired human lady with 
the striking good looks shared by her 
sisters. In court (which is rare), she 
wears purple and blue gowns with sil 
ver trim. When wandering, she wears 
gray exclusively. No one has noticed a 
change in her appearance since she 
took the throne of Aglarond, 38 years 
ago. 

Equipment: The Simbul prefers to 
use her own magics and talents to using 
magic items, but she does carry an 
impressive array of magic items which 
she rarely uses. 

In particular, The Simbul usually 
wears a set of bracelets which are brac 
ers of defense AC1 and a ring of spell 
storing and a ring of shooting stars. She 
has a staff of power which she used in 
earlier days, but it is largely depleted 
and usually resides in a (well guarded) 
place of honor in her apartments in 
Aglarond. 

She also has a selection of wands, 
including several of the rare wands 
described in FR4, THE MAGISTER, and 
several other rings of magic. When she 
is in Aglarond, she will inscribe scrolls 
for her assistants. 

Personality: She can be ruthless if 
necessary, but usually avoids combat if 
possible. She prefers the subtle use of 
magic to the blatant, but if cornered, 
will unleash her full arsenal. 

Motivations: The Simbul's principal 
motivation is to preserve her small 
country of Aglarond against the might 
of Thay and the machinations of other 
surrounding realms. She also seeks to 
work mysterious ends understandable 
only to herself. 

These mysterious ends take her on 
long expeditions, usually shape 
changed, to nations all around the 
Inner Sea - forming alliances and pro 
viding examples to those who might 
menace herself or her nation. 

Background notes: When King 
Halacar of Aglarond died in the Battle of 


Lapendrar (1260) and his sister, the sor 
ceress Uione, took the throne, The Sim 
bul was a young woman, just starting 
out in her career as a magic-user. 

However, Ilione had heard of her 
through The Simbul's sister, Sylune, 
and invited the young mage to join her 
as her apprentice and heir. The Simbul 
arrived shortly after receiving the invi 
tation and immediately began learning 
all the knowledgeable ilione could 
impart and gaining the confidence of 
the half-elves of her adopted country. 

Ilione died during the Great Plague of 
The Inner Sea in 1320. The Simbul 
ascended to the throne, already mighty 
in magic, and is still the ruler of 
Aglarond. Her awesome magical 
powers have kept the forces of Thay 
from overwhelming her kingdom. She 
is a mysterious, lonely arch-mage 
whose proper name is known only to 
her sisters (Sylune of Shadowdale, now 
deceased; Alustriel of Silverymoon; the 
bard Storm Silverhand; and the ranger 
Dove), and whose true name is secret 
even from them. The Simbul travels 
widely in many planes, shape shifting 
constantly. 

Other notes: Besides being an awe 
some opponent to any character com 
ing from Thay, The Simbul is an 
excellent NPC for instigating player 
character activity in Thay. She is contin 
ually looking for information about 
Thay and agents to satisfy her needs for 
action in Thay. At this time, she is mak 
ing a circuit of the Eastern Realms, look 
ing for information and assistance. She 
can find the player characters and ask 
them to assist her. In the Realms, if The 
Simbul asks, you fulfill her needs. She's 
a good friend, and a deadly enemy. 

Encountering the Simbul can happen 
at any time. While she prefers to wear 
grey, she can be garbed in anything, 
and uses her many contacts throughout 
the Realms, even in Zhentil Keep, to 
produce an identity in keeping with the 
land through which she is wandering. 

Too, The Simbul is as apt to appear as 
a gray cat, or wolf, or dark-plumaged 
eagle or hawk. If the characters are act 
ing surreptitiously in enemy territory. 


100 

















































they may find a spider growing into a 
statuesque woman who wants to enlist 
their aid or assist them, if they are 
meeting her ends. 

And her ends are as mysterious as 
rumored. In other words, the DM can 
make them whatever he pleases to ful 
fill the needs of his campaign. However, 
remember that they should be many 
layered and convoluted, and she will 
never say what her real goals are. 

Sydsj&y 

ARMOR CLASS: 9 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 16 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
SIZE: M (5"5') 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Magic-User 
S:8 1:18 W:14 D:15 C:12 CH:11 

Not an overly attractive woman, the 
young mage Sydney devotes all of her 
energies to her obsession with power. 
She is heavyset and a bit too sqare- 
shouldered, her dress frumpy, and her 
hair unkempt, and she generally 
presents an indifferent, even antagonis 
tic attitude to any advances on a social 
level. But though she is not the most lik 
able person around, no one can deny 
the sharpness of her mind. 

Certainly Dendybar, one of the most 
powerful wizards in all of Luskan, 
understands the potential in the wom 
an. He took Sydney under his tutelage 
after only one encounter with her, 
moreso to prevent one of the other wiz 
ards from snatching her up than to fill 
any need he might have had for a pro 
tege. Perhaps the best indicator of just 
how powerful Sydney might someday 
become is the measure of care and cau 
tion with which Dendybar is bringing 
her along. He has taught her mostly 
defensive spells and no destructive evo 


cations at all - her most powerful 
offensive spell is web. Sydney is his con 
nection to the outside world, and is 
most effective in a manipulative role. 
Her spellbook, therefore is filled with 
spells such as charm person, and defen 
sive spells such as wizard lock, shield, 
and protection from normal missiles. 

Perhaps to make up for the limited 
offensive power he has granted her, 
Dendybar has bestowed great gifts 
upon his prize student, and Sydney, 
though she prefers to exercise her own 
magical prowess, is quick to grab at her 
wand of lightning bolts (83 charges) in a 
tight situation. Also, she keeps a mirror 
of mental prowess in her small room at 
the Hosttower of the Arcane. Her 
spellbook holds numerous spells for a 
mage of her level, and Sydney typically 
leaves the Hosttower after memorizing: 

• First-level - Charm person, com 
prehend languages, shield x 2. 

• Second-level - Web, wizard lock. 

• Third-level - Protection from nor 
mal missiles, haste. 

The "chicken-or-the-egg" dilemma 
applies wholeheartedly to Sydney. It is 
difficult to determine if her lack of 
physical attractiveness contributed to 
her burning desire for the magical arts, 
or if her obsession with power stunted 
her social growth. Certainly she is rath 
er plain-looking, but what Sydney truly 
lacks is an inner glow of beauty. 

Ironically, the absence of those social 
wiles hinders Sydney in her quest for 
power. Dendybar gave her the mirror 
of mental prowess, and the first spell he 
ever taught her was charm person, 
because he understands the special 
advantage a female mage in the North 
land enjoys. Wizards like wizards; ordi 
nary folk don't trust them or 
understand them, and men outnumber 
women 10-to-l in the magic-user circles 
of the North. Sydney has many would- 
be suitors despite herself, one Harkle 
Harpell of the Longsaddle Harpells in 
particular, who offer her lessons, infor 
mation, even minor magic items in an 
attempt to win her favor. But while Syd 
ney has no reservations whatsoever 
about taking advantage of someone, she 


remains clumsy and uncomfortable in 
such situations and with the charm 
spells, and has never fully exploited the 
possibilities open before her. 

She has spent all of her 25 years in 
Luskan, the daughter of a weaver- 
woman and a merchant sailor. Her fam 
ily was not rich, but neither was it poor, 
living a modest life in a comfortable 
apartment near the center of the city. 
Often young Sydney would stare out of 
her window at the wondrous, tree-like 
towers of the Hosttower of the Arcane 
and dream of studying the secrets of 
the universe. This was much to her 
mother's dismay, for the woman want 
ed only one thing from her only daugh 
ter: grandchildren. 

But Sydney had other aspirations, 
and when she enrolled in, and clearly 
won, the Challenge of the Aspiring Wiz 
ards, a test of mental prowess conduct 
ed every fifth year by the Hosttower to 
discern if any potential wizards might 
be found among the general populace, 
the powerful lobby of the Hosttower 
came into play on her side. Even the 
controlling merchants in Luskan 
adhere to the few, but emphatic, 
demands of the city's wizards, and Syd 
ney's parents had no choice but to give 
in to her wishes. 

Her very first interview upon joining 
the order was with the tower's second 
in command, Dendybar, and thus the 
relationship was begun. 

And now, fully convinced that the 
guiding fates have set aside a special 
and brightly burning star just for her, 
Sydney drives herself into her work 
with passion, absorbing every word 
her master utters and pouring through 
the magical tomes each night until her 
eyes sting from the candle smoke, sacri 
ficing her very existence for the all- 
consuming obsession. 

Roleplaying tips: Sydney is quick 
ly bored with new people, having no 
interest in anything they might do 
unless it affects her future. 

She is learning - slowly - the arts of 
manipulation, and will play up to any 
mage who might be of use to her. But 
any interest Sydney shows in anybody 


101 















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


will be for selfish reasons. She is devoid 
of sympathy and empathy, caring not at 
all for the sufferings of others. In her 
distorted perception, her existence is 
all that matters, even to the point 
where she honestly wonders if anyone 
else truly exists when she is not around, 
as if all the other people in all the 
Realms live their lives simply to nurture 
the continuing experience that she calls 
her life. 

She is undeniably loyal to Dendybar, 
though, but only because she percieves 
the Mottled Wizard to be her chosen 
tutor in this existence. In Sydney's delu 
sions of grandeur, the gods have 
appointed Dendybar the vital task of 
training their shining star. 

Syluhie of 
ShddoujSaLe 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 77 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: ld6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
22nd-Level Human Magic-User 
S:13 1:18 W:16 D:17 C:18 CH:15 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Comprehend languag 
es, feather fall, protection from 
evil. 

• Second-level - Continual light, 
locate object, strength. 

• Third-level - Dispel magic, fly, 
protection from normal missiles. 

• Fourth-level - Charm monster, 
hallucinatory terrain, plant 
growth. 

• Fifth-level - Conjure water ele 
mental, hold monster, telekinesis. 

• Sixth-level - Globe of invulnerabil 
ity, guards and wards, reincarna 
tion. 

• Seventh-level - Banishment, lim 


ited wish. 

• Eighth-level - Maze, permanency 

• Ninth-level - Shape change. 

Physical description: Sylune was 

a human female - stikingly beautiful, 
with long black hair that became silver 
early in her life. She dressed in a nonde 
script brown robe, and always carried 
her staff. 

Equipment: Sylune's drab brown 
robe was actually a robe of protection 
+4. She carried a staff of the magi and 
wore a ring of spell storing and a ring of 
fire resistance. She had many scrolls 
with various protection spells on them, 
and possessed a crystal ball which is 
now in the possession of her old friend, 
Elminster (as, one assumes, are most of 
the scrolls). 

Personality: Sylune was always 
gracious, gentle, and polite. Among the 
five sisters, she was the motherly one, 
and at the same time, the stern example 
to them all. Sometimes she seemed to 
feel the burden of being the example to 
the others, yet she was always willing to 
listen and lend herself to causes that 
needed her talents. 

However, like any of her clan, Sylune 
could be short with fools and liars, and 
quick to point out their shortcomings. 
She had a tongue that mostly caressed 
the ears of her listeners, but it could 
blister the ears of those who would 
waste her time with foolishness. 

Motivations: Sylune was motivated 
by the example of her lover and then 
husband, Aumry, lord of Shadow dale. 
They adventured together in their 
youth, and when Aumry was called 
upon to assume the mantle of lord, she 
married him and took on the burden of 
lady. 

Her dedication was to the well-being 
of her people at all time. She was their 
most fierce defender, standing out 
among many other defenders, includ 
ing two of her sisters. Dove and Storm 
Silverhand. She finally proved her dedi 
cation with her life. 

Background notes: Sylune was 
born in the year of the Dancing Maiden 
(1202 DR), and was killed in the Year of 
the Worm (1356 DR). 


Upon the death of her husband, 
Aumry, she fought against a number of 
evil usurpers, overcame them, and then 
kept peace in the dale, working to 
achieve this with Elminster, the bard 
Storm Silverhand (her sister), and 
Mane's Band, until a rightful lord, Doust 
Sulwood, returned. Sylune was slain by 
a huge ancient red dragon under the 
influence of the Cult of the Dragon. She 
slew the dragon as she herself per 
ished, breaking her staff of the magi for 
a retributive strike. 

Other notes: Sylune was a friend 
and ally to Doust and his companions. 
She lived in a hut in the woods south 
and west of most homes in the dale, 
where she served all dalefolk as mid 
wife, comforter, and physician. Sylune 
was the eldest sister of The Simbul of 
Aglarond, Storm Silverhand, Alustriel 
of Silverymoon, and the ranger Dove. 

One of her early feats was helping to 
form the Harpers, along with her sister, 
Storm Silverhand, and a group of other 
rangers and bards. This was almost a 
century ago, when Sylune was still 
young, but the organization has grown 
to become a major force for the propa 
gation of "good" against such entities as 
the Zhentarim and the Red Wizards of 
Thay. 

Since Sylune is dead, it is difficult 
(though not impossible) for characters 
to interact with her. Yet, her legacy does 
give characters some hooks for adven 
ture. 

Stories of Sylune are told by bards 
(particularly Storm Silverhand, but her 
saga is considered prime recruiting 
material by all the Harpers) as inspira 
tion for the living. Thus, Sylune is still 
fulfilling her function. From her adven 
tures, characters can gain inspiration 
(that is to say, the DM can give them 
hints) for dealing with problems that 
seem unsurmountable at any particular 
moment. 

And, of course, her legacy of the 
Harpers provides plenty of opportunity 
for adventure as recruits to that elite 
network oppose the machinations of 
Zhentarim and Red Wizard alike. 


102 

















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


VaMgeRdabasT 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 60 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ ATTACK: ld4 + 1 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
15th-Level Magic-User 
S:12 1:18 W:16 D:14 C:16 CH:12 

Commonly remembered spells: 

• First-level - Charm person, detect 
magic, friends. 

• Second-level - Detect invisibility, 
ESP mirror image. 

• Third-level - Detect illusion, hold 
person, protection from evil, 10' 
radius. 

• Fourth-level - Charm monster, dis 
pel illusion, remove curse. 

• Fifth-level - Bigby's interposing 
hand, passwall, wall of iron. 

• Sixth-level - Geas, globe of invul 
nerability 

• Seventh-level - Reverse gravity 

Physical description: Vangerda- 

hast looks like a middle-aged, paunchy, 
white-bearded man of kindly but stern 
manner. In fact, he has been around, 
looking much the same, for 30 years, so 
he is older than he looks. 

Vangerdahast always wears long 
robes with capacious sleeves. 

Equipment: Vangerdahast has a 
ceremonial dagger which is actually a 
dagger +1. He wears bracers of AC2 
and a ring of protection+3. He also has 
several magical wands, and generally 
carries a wand of armory (see other 
notes) and a wand of force in one of his 
copious sleeves. He has several other 
magical rings, and wears different ones 
depending on the situation. In court, 
which is where he is usually found, he 
wears a ring of multiple wishes with an 
unknown number of uses left. He has 
used it twice in times of disaster. 

He is also known to have supplied the 


king with magical rings, and resupplies 
him when he gives them away to people 
on special missions or who have done 
the king important favors. 

Personality: Vangerdahast is quiet 
and unassuming, although during court 
ceremonies, he can be very dignified, 
solemn, and impressive. A studiously 
pragmatic person, Vangerdahast 
always tries to appear unflappable and 
ready to cope with anything. He is of 
kindly but stern manner. 

Motivations: Vangerdahast is 
known for lifelong loyalty to Azoun IV, 
king of Cormyr. He feels that Azoun is 
the best possible ruler for Cormyr, and 
works to maintain Azoun's rule. He 
tends to take the most expeditious 
route, rather than the "good" path, 
which might be longer and less likely, in 
his view, to succeed. 

However, he is concerned for the wel 
fare of the entire nation, and realizes 
that repression and arbitrariness are 
the best ways to make the people want 
a change of ruler. 

Background notes: Vangerdahast 
spent his youth, in the time of Azoun's 
grandfather's rule, as an adventurer - 
gaining many friends in the adventurer 
and retired adventurer circles. Since 
many of these people are now kings or 
advisers to kings, he has a network of 
friends and acquaintances throughout 
the Realms. 

Azoun's father, Rhigaerd II, appointed 
Vangerdahast as Azoun's tutor in the 
history and lineages of Cormyr and in 
matters of magic and such rulership 
subjects as ethics. Vangerdahast used 
this position to become the king's most 
trusted adviser. 

Vangerdahast aided the king in his 
youth and has supported Azoun's rule 
throughout his reign. He is respected 
by fellow mages and the people of Cor 
myr alike. 

Vangerdahast is now the royal magi 
cian of Cormyr, court wizard of the 
Purple Dragon, and head of Suzail's 
Council of Mages. When he is not advis 
ing the king, he spends his time 
researching spells and enchanting mag 
ical items for him. 


Other notes: As the adviser to the 
king of one of the major nations of the 
Realms, Vangerdahast is someone that 
player characters will almost inevitably 
meet or otherwise interact with in their 
travels. He is the man behind Cormyr's 
activities against the Zhentarim, and he 
is always interested when a party has 
found some item of magic that they 
want to identify or dispose of. 

Parties sent on missions for the Harp 
ers by Storm Silverhand or The Simbul 
may be told to talk to Vangerdahast 
about the subject of the mission and 
gain his counsel. Vangerdahast is not a 
Harper, but is generally sympathetic to 
their aims. 

The wand of armory: This type of 
wand was originally devised by the 
long-dead wizard Hosta. His appren 
tices spread the method of making it far 
and wide through the North of the 
Realms. 

When touched to a target creature or 
activated upon the user's person, this 
wand envelops the target with an invisi 
ble, magical field of force which affords 
the equivalent of armor class 0 protec 
tion. 

The field of force can be destroyed by 
dispel magic, limited wish, disintegrate 
(which does not affect the person pro 
tected) or similar, stronger, spells. Oth 
erwise, it lasts for six rounds. During 
this time it absorbs magic missile and all 
electrical (including magical) attacks, so 
the target is not affected, but the field 
does not affect any other spell going in 
or out of the field. 

The "force armor" is used in addition 
to any armor worn. That means the 
attacker must attack twice, once 
against the armor class 0 from the 
wand, and once against the normal 
armor class of the target. It completely 
covers any size M or S creature (who 
need not be conscious, alive, or even 
willing to be protected). There is no sav 
ing throw. Size L creatures have their 
heads and torsos protected. 

Any member of any class may use this 
wand. It cannot be recharged. Each use 
of the wand drains one charge. 


103 
















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


The WAhjdeizeiz 

MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 56 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Enchanted sword 

(see below) 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Seventh-Level Human Kensai 
S:16 1:16 W:10 D:17 C:14 CH:17 

He is the true wave man, driven by 
the winds, hammered to the Earth, 
shadowed by fire and eternal as death. 
Who is he? He is no one. 

Background: It is possible that no 
one will ever know exactly who the 
Wanderer is - not even himself. Born 
from the ashes of the terrible battle of 
Kiroshina, he is a man without history, 
without name, and without family. 

Slender and strong, with black hair 
and eyes, he is unremarkable among 
the peoples of Kara Tur. His face is 
young, without the wrinkles and marks 
of age or care. Found wandering the 
blasted battlefields of Kanazaki Prov 
ince, he wore the garb of a soldier, but 
his armor was so torn that not even the 
side for which he fought could be deter 
mined. 

Who he is is The Wanderer's least 
concern - in fact, his identity seems to 
be something from which he now flees. 
His motivation is to always keep mov 
ing, keep doing, so that he need not 
ever consider his past - a past perhaps 
too horrible to remember. If he is 
approached by someone from out of his 
previous life, he will rebuff them with 
angry words, or run from them in ter 
ror. Doin Sanehiro is the lodestone of 
The Wanderer's life. He follows the old 
er warrior without question, giving the 
"Monkey" his loyalty and the responsi 
bility for The Wanderer's actions. In 
turn, Sanehiro does not ask The Wan 
derer to explain his past or choose 
sides. 

As the companions travel together, 


The Wanderer has slowly accumulated 
the bits and pieces of a new identity; a 
livable fiction made up from the images 
his friends project upon him. This new 
self mirrors his increasing loyalty to 
Sanehiro, as the quintessential ronin 
becomes samurai again under a new 
lord. 

Dungeon Master's information: 

The Wanderer can be encountered on 
the road alone or in the company of 
Sanehiro/Monkey. His usual abode is a 
small woodcutter's hut on the edge of 
Tomobiki village, surrounded by a thick 
brake of bamboo and scattered fields. 

The Wanderer rarely speaks, even to 
his closest friends. When encountering 
an adventuring party, he will watch 
them silently, a somewhat distant and 
considering look in his eyes. Should any 
player recognize him, he will go out of 
his way to avoid that person; if he can 
not, he will rebuff the adventurer with 
loud words and curses. The Wanderer 
will only become violent if severely 
pressed. 

The Wanderer normally does not 
wear armor or carry weapons, 
although he does have both at his hut 
and will wear them into battle. At first 
glance, the armor appears to be a bat 
tered mismatch from no determinable 
army; however, a careful use of the 
detect magic spell will prove the armor 
to be enchanted to +3. The Wanderer's 
swords are of uncertain antiquity, but 
are actually enchanted with the ability 
to cast the spell protection from spirits 
three times per day. If asked. The Wan 
derer will say that he found the sword 
and armor on the battlefield of 
Kiroshina and that he knows nothing of 
their histories. 

XaxjaTkaR 

FREQUENCY: Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 0/2/7 
MOVE: 3" 

Hit Points: 75 
% IN LAIR: 80% 

TREASURE TYPE: I,S,T 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 


DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2d4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Magic 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Anti-magic ray 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Special 
INTELLIGENCE: Exceptional 
ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil 
SIZE: L (4 1/2' diameter) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Physical description: Xanathar's 
physical shape is the same as any other 
eye tyrant: A large diameter sphere 
covered in chitin with 10 eyestalks, a 
large eye in the forward part of the 
sphere, and a tooth-filled mouth below 
that. His body color (which varies with 
every beholder) is a dark blue-gray 
which shades toward a dull yellow- 
orange around his cavernous mouth 
and underside. All of the above is usu 
ally floating about 3' off the ground. 

Equipment: Xanathar, like all eye 
tyrants, has no particular faith in magi 
cal equipment. However, he has had 
specially made an eyes talk ring of proof 
against detection and location which is 
around his fifth eyestalk. He has similar 
rings around all of his other eyestalks, 
but they are simply jewelry, worth 
about 350 gp each. 

Personality: Xanathar loves his 
position as the secret lord of Water- 
deep's criminal underground. His great 
pleasure is chuckling over the vanity of 
the Lords of Waterdeep, who think 
they have eradicated organized crime 
in Waterdeep, while he prospers in the 
sewers beneath their feet. 

Motivations: Xanathar is a creature 
of pleasures - it enjoys finely prepared 
foods, scented oils, and spiced southern 
tobaccos and herbs. His principal goal is 
to maintain his position as crime lord of 
Waterdeep. 

Besides avoiding the scrutiny of the 
Lords of Waterdeep, Xanathar is keep 
ing himself from common knowledge 
because he doesn't want his former 
masters of the Zhentarim to know 
where he is (see background). 

Background notes: Xanathar 
came to Waterdeep as cargo in a trading 
caravan from Zhentil Keep. He was a 
follower of Xantriph, Manshoon's eye 


104 



















































MINOR CHARACTERS 


tyrant ally, and initially, his mission was 
to work toward the destruction of the 
Lords of Waterdeep and the promotion 
of a ruler who would be friendly to 
Zhentil Keep and the Zhentarim. 

However, after a couple of months of 
conspiracy and lurking about the 
shadows of the docks, the free market 
atmosphere of Waterdeep inspired 
Xanathar, and he defied his masters by 
disappearing from their view. 

In no time he had a network of 
thieves working for him, and had found 
his hideout underneath Waterdeep. 

Xanathar is now the master of the 
"unofficial" thieves guild of Waterdeep. 
He works solely through free-lancers 
who receive orders indirectly. Only his 
most trusted lieutenants have any idea 
that Xanathar exists, or is a beholder. 

He has not left his hideout for years, 
allowing his lieutenants to supply all of 
his needs. The Lords of Waterdeep 
have no idea that there is an eye tyrant 
within 200 miles of Waterdeep. 

Other notes: Xanathar makes his 
home is an opulent chamber that lies 
hidden behind a secret door leading 
from the sewers of Waterdeep. His 


main chamber has yet to be located by 
the forces of Law, and indeed, few 
know of his very existence in the city. 
He has the best knowledge of the 
sewers and their entrances both into 
the major citadels and into Under 
mountain as well. 

Xanathar's abode is enmeshed in a net 
of trapped passages, of which only the 
four councilors know the safe passage. 
Most of the traps are non-lethal, pri 
marily consisting of pits and nets and 
falling cages. Interlopers are taken 
from the traps and kept as pets briefly, 
wrung dry for information, then dis 
patched (for Xanathar's appetite is 
enormous). 

The chambers in Xanathar's lair con 
tain a number of treasure vaults and 
libraries (with information from Slink 
written in code). Xanathar itself 
reclines in a clear glass tank of scented 
water when planning criminal activi 
ties. 

Xanathar is served by his central 
"four councilors" who meet with him 
regularly. They in turn deal with other 
underlings. 


Sian Thurbel is his mercenary leader, 
a sixth-level fighter who arranges 
crimes of violence. 

Slink Monteskor is Xanathar's book 
keeper and gatherer of information - 
he has a network of snitches scattered 
throughout the poor sections and 
among some servants of the upper 
classes. 

Ott Steeltoes is a renegade of Iron 
master, a one-eyed and one-legged 
dwarven pirate, who is a fifth-level 
fighter and thief. 

Darkeyes is a half-drow thief of sev 
enth level, and Xanathar's personal 
favorite. She is also a master at black 
mail and extortion, and her information 
comes from the darker festhalls of 
Waterdeep and their more stylish 
patrons. 

In his lair, Xanathar keeps a pair of 
charmed intellect devourers, and a 
winglet of six gargoyles for local 
defense. 

Player characters may learn of Xana 
thar's existence by running afoul of 
Zhentarim agents who are "looking for 
a beholder." 


105 
















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


Bands of adventurers are common in 
the Forgotten Realms. They are com 
posed of individuals united by a desire 
for money, magic, skill, fame and, most 
essentially, adventure. They are toler 
ated in most places and have a long tra 
dition. Certain lands, such as Cormyr, 
require that bands register and receive 
a royal charter to operate within their 
borders; a few, such as Amn, forbid 
adventurers outright. 

The number of adventuring compan 
ies is large and constantly changing. 
Such groups are established, vanish, 
and change names and locations con 
stantly with the passing winters. 

Two notable groups are described 
below. Both have shown remarkable 
longevity and are quite well known. 
The Knights of Myth Drannor, operat 
ing out of Shadowdale, are an example 
of a fairly typical group that started just 
looking for adventure; as they became 
powerful, they embraced a number of 
worthy causes, such as the defense of 
Shadowdale and the monitoring of the 
ruins of Myth Drannor. The Company 
of Eight, of Tethyr, is a group with a 
much more narrow focus; their 
expressed purpose is to provide stabili 
ty in the state of near-anarchy in their 
country. 

The IGofght $ of Myth 

Drasjk)ok 

These adventurers first came to 
prominence as rulers of Shadowdale, in 
their successful defiance of the armies 
of Zhentil Keep. They were instrumen 
tal in the defeat of Lash an of Scardale, 
and remain able foes of the Zhentarim 
and of the drow beneath the Dra- 
gonreach lands. 

The Knights began in Espar as a 
nameless band of youths, young men 
and women who had grown up togeth 
er. They received a charter from King 
Azoun of Cormyr allowing them to bear 
arms. The royal assent included a 
strong recommendation that the party 
of adventurers explore and clean out 
the "Haunted Halls," a bandit hold north 


of the village of Eveningstar. 

The group departed on the 28th of 
Tarsakh, Year of the Harp, and spent 
two months adventuring in the Halls. 
The group then moved on to the Stone- 
lands, exploring assorted tombs and 
strongholds of evil creatures. 

It was at this time that the Knights 
first ran afoul of the Zhentarim, who 
were engaged in taking control of the 
Stonelands in order to complete an 
overland caravan route from Zhentil 
Keep to the Sword Coast. The party 
slew Maglor, a Zhentarim spy, in 
Eveningstar, and later slew the rene 
gade Zhentarim mage Whisper. A thief, 
Nith, whom the party rescued in the 
Halls during this time was actually a 
Zhentarim spy, Asbarode. He laid hold 
of a magical sword that compelled him 
to take it elsewhere, and left the band. 

As with almost any beginning group, 
the Knights at first had several bad ele 
ments: companions who were uncoop 
erative, and attempted to slay or steal 
from their fellows. Two of these in the 
Knights, the fighters Agannor Wild- 
silver and Bey Freemantle, met swift 
and brutal ends. 

The party discovered a curious fea 
ture common to many ancient ruins in 
the Realms: permanent teleportation 
gates linking one dungeon with 
another, far-distant one. By chance they 
took one to the great city of Waterdeep, 
where they met Khelben "Blackstaff" 
Arunsun, who had heard of their 
doings via Harper agents (such as Dove, 
later a Knight herself and the wife of 
Florin Falconhand). Khelben recog 
nized a golden opportunity to hand the 
Zhentarim a setback: He gave Florin the 
pendant and title of lord of Shadow- 
dale, to claim if he could. After 
strengthening and healing the band, 
Khelben teleported them all back to 
Eveningstar. 

The party traversed the Stonelands to 
Shadowdale, where they took posses 
sion of the monster-infested Tower of 
Ashaba and met Sylune, Elminster, and 
other notable locals, including Mane's 
Band (adventurers) and a few drow 
agents. It was some time before the 


adventurers had secured the tower, but 
by the time they had, they had found 
enough treasure to rebuild the struc 
ture. They also discovered the chilling 
secret of the Tower of Ashaba: It had 
been built not by men, but by the drow, 
to guard the entrances to the realms 
below. The drow had been coming up 
through the ruined tower to trade with 
the Zhentarim, who had a hidden 
stronghold in the woods near Shadow- 
dale. 

Florin declined the lordship of Sha 
dowdale; instead, he asked that his fel 
low Knights elect one of their number 
to take the position. Doust Sulwood, 
cleric of Tymora, was chosen. Support 
ed by the sage Elminster, the witch 
Sylune, Tamshan the bard, and the 
magic-user Boots "The Lucky" of Mane's 
Band (the latter two Harper agents), 
Doust established his rule. He called vil 
lage meetings, democratic "lord's 
courts," to discuss matters great and 
small, and arranged to have elected a 
council of locals to advise him. 

Troubles with the Zhentarim contin 
ued to plague Doust; caravan after cara 
van from Zhentil Keep, some carrying 
slaves, pushed through Shadowdale, 
and fought the Knights' guards. At the 
same time, the adventurers made for 
ays against local giants, wiping out the 
Flaming Tower, tackled a beholder 
allied with the Zhentarim, and encoun 
tered "The Hand," a band of evil adven 
turers based in Voonlar. 

All too soon, Zhentil Keep sent an 
army against the dale, supporting a 
false claim on the lordship from Lyran 
Nanther of Melvaunt. Astonishingly, 
the party's mercenaries and militia, 
with elven and Harper help, prevailed 
against 10 times their number; but it 
was recognized that Zhentil Keep had 
not yet given up the struggle. 

The party members continued to 
establish themselves in the dale, uncov 
ering Zhentarim and drow agents, iden 
tifying a weretiger, and discovering the 
talents of Illistyl Elventree. They solidi 
fied the dale's defenses and settled new 
farmers. Envoys began to arrive from 
local rulers and priesthoods; most were 


106 



















































politely refused, but Tyche, Lathander, 
and Chauntea were granted land. 

Before Zhentil Keep could make its 
next attack, the Knights made a light 
ning attack on Voonlar, a village up the 
road. There they razed and plundered 
the temple of the evil god Bane, taking 
over 400 prisoners, including drow and 
Zhentarim. While the Zhentarim recov 
ered from this blow, the adventurers 
dealt another to the drow in the 
caverns below the dale. 

This venture was highly successful, 
but as the adventurers themselves 
were recovering, Lashan of Scardale, 
secretly supported by the high imper- 
ceptor of Bane, suddenly invaded and 
conquered neighboring Harrowdale 
and Featherdale. He then took Battle- 
dale and Tasseldale beyond before any 
one could mobilize their forces, and 
attacked Mistledale. Cormyr guarded 
its borders by annexing Tilverton to the 
west, and Sembia rushed its forces 
north to protect Deepingdale and pre 
vent Lashan from turning south. It was 
left to Shadowdale, the elves (who were 


leaving the Elven Court for the tranquil 
ity of Evermeet as fast as they could), 
tbe Harpers, and the druidic circles in 
the area to bolster Mistledale and hold 
Lashan back. Hold they did - and 
Lashan's empire began to crumble as he 
was attacked from all sides. 

The departing elves invited the party 
to enter Myth Drannor. There they 
found much evil, but also another gate 
to Waterdeep, as well as gates to other 
worlds. They found a treasure cache 
known as the Elfhold, and encountered 
renegade lords of Zhentil Keep, seeking 
allies to fight against the Zhentarim, 
and the goddess Mielikki. 

Aumark Lithyl then left the party to 
take the throne of Ruathym, since his 
father had been slain in the war with 
Luskan. To replace him, Khelben sent a 
young Waterdhavian cavalier, Mourn- 
grym Amcathra. When Doust relin 
quished his title, Mourngrym was 
named lord of Shadowdale. 

In Myth Drannor, the band found a 
deck of many things, and Doust amaz 
ingly survived the drawing of a death 


card. Soon thereafter, Islif gave birth to 
a son, Jhaok, and Mielikki appeared to 
Florin, commanding him to marry 
Dove. 

The party guarded Shadowdale until 
the deep snows of winter made attack 
by Zhentil Keep impossible; then they 
made their way to Myth Drannor to 
take the gate to Waterdeep, where they 
wintered in a villa, dubbed "Cold Com 
fort" Jhessail gave birth to Veluthil, and 
Dove and Florin were wed. 

When spring of the Year of the Prince 
came, the adventurers left Waterdeep 
to explore the Realms, having left the 
defense of Shadowdale to Mourngrym, 
Elminster, and their army. They spent 
most of the next year exploring the 
northern Sword Coast, and then com 
ing down the western edge of the Great 
Desert, Anauroch, to Westgate, then 
Cormyr and the Dales at last. Along the 
way, they found the lost city of Gauntl- 
grym, met with Alustriel, high lady of 
Silverymoon, and the wandering Sim- 
bul of Aglarond, and lost Jelde, then 
Doust and Islif, to retirement. 


107 



























































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


Instead of returning to Shadow dale, 
the remaining party members elected 
to go to Myth Drannor, hoping to estab 
lish their own stronghold there. They 
found a nasty surprise there: hordes of 
devils, summoned by priests of Bane, 
infested the ruins. After hard fighting, 
the party retired to Essembra, there to 
rest and welcome Rathan Thentraver, 
cleric of Tymora, and Torm, a rogue, 
into their ranks. They also finally chose 
a name: The Knights of Myth Drannor. 

The Knights have since had many 
adventures, exploring other worlds, 
battling the drow (and in the process 
gaining a new companion, Sharantyr), 
and continuing to fight the Zhentarim 
and their devil and ore agents. They 
have also had many battles in the ruins 
of Myth Drannor; adventurers flock 
there from the lands all around, search 
ing for treasure, but finding instead 
swift death from diabolical claws. 

The death of Sylune and the devasta 
tion of much of the Dalelands at the 
claws and fangs of dragons at the 
behest of the Cult of the Dragon gained 
the Knights a new enemy. Currently the 
Knights are fighting on against ever- 
more-powerful foes; and they are 
beginning to question the nature and 
aims of the Harpers. 

Having renounced their official posi 
tions in Shadowdale, they remain 
"lords" and "ladies" of the dale, respect 
ed by all the dalefolk; and Elminster, 
and the bard Storm Silverhand remain 
staunch allies. 

Currently the Knights are: Florin 
Falconhand and his wife. Dove; Jhessail 
Silvertree and her husband, Merith 
Strongbow; the druid, Lanseril Snow- 
mantle; and four "junior members": the 
magic-user Illistyl Elventree, her lover 
Torm, Rathan Thentraver, and the 
ranger Sharantyr. Less active members 
are Jelde Asturien, Doust Sulwood, and 
Islif Lurelake, and Mourngrym 
Amcathra, with his wife, Shaerl Rowan- 
mantle. Mourngrym and Shaerl are 
described elsewhere in this book; the 
rest are described below. 

Jhessail coordinates domestic matters 
for the Knights, while Florin is battle 


leader; but all party members are 
equal, and all important decisions are 
decided by a democratic vote. 

The party does not currently have a 
permanent stronghold or base, 
although they are hoping to build one. 
They are always welcome at the Tower 
of Ashaba or almost anywhere else in 
Shadowdale; and there they keep a 
cache of communal treasure and magic, 
deposited in the days of Doust's lord- 
ship. It includes healing scrolls and 
potions and at least one elixir of life. 

The Knights utilize no hirelings or 
henchmen; all who so offer their serv 
ices are sent to aid Lord Mourngrym in 
policing Shadowdale. 

Spellbooks: The spell-casting mem 
bers of the Knights have pooled their 
resources, gathering all their known 
spells together. The books containing 
these spells are kept safe in the Tower 
of Ashaba in Shadowdale; any magic 
using Knight can have access to them. 
Each Knight has a traveling spellbook, 
in which are recorded those spells list 
ed in the character descriptions below 
as "spells commonly memorized." Some 
also have their own books of cantrips; 
such zero-level spells are not recorded 
in the shared books. 

The Knights of Myth Drannor are 
always eager to find new spells to add 
to the communal books as well as their 
personal repertoires. 

Jelde "SemooR Wolf Tooth" 
AsTuR)ew 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 57 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Eighth-Level Human Cleric 
S:161:12 W:18 D:12 C:15 CH:12 


Patron deity: Lathander. 

Home city or country: Espar, Cor- 
myr. 

Current residence: Eveningstar. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Elvish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Staff, ham 
mer, mace. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Endurance, fishing, rope use. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
7; Petrification/polymorph - 10; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 11; Breath weapon -13; 
Spells - 12. 

Undead turning: Skeleton - D*; 
Mummy - 7; Zombie - D*; Spectre - 
10; Ghoul - D; Vampire - 13; Shadow 
- D; Ghost - 16; Wight - T; Lich -19; 
Ghast - T; Special - 20; Wraith - 4. 
Spells per level: 5/5/4/3/ -. 

Spells commonly memorized: Aid, 
bless, command, continual light, cure 
blindness, cure light wounds x 2, cure 
serious wounds, dispel magic, glyph of 
warding, hold person, know alignment, 
messenger, neutralize poison, remove 
fear, speak with plants, withdraw. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Hammer +1, chain mail +2, potion of 
levitation, scroll of protection from illu 
sions, ring of spell storing (with the 
spells control weather, item, Leomund's 
trap, lightning bolt, and water breath 
ing, all at the 12th level of use), horse 
man's mace, shield, rope (65' long), holy 
symbol, prayer beads, fishing line and 
net, staff, backpack, bullseye lantern, 
three flasks of oil, water skin, two 
weeks' rations. 

A longtime member of the Knights, 
Jelde was one of the original members 
from the Cormyrian village of Espar. 
The name given to him there was 
Semoor Wolftooth; but now he finds 
himself called this only by acquaint 
ances of long, long ago. His name is now 
Jelde Asturien: It is the tradition of cler 
ics of Lathander, God of the Dawn, to 
take a new name, revealed by their dei 
ty, upon gaining the rank of priest 
(third level). This symbolizes the 
rebirth and renewal that Lathander 
also represents. 

Another appellation from Jelde's past 


108 













































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


is the nickname, "Stoop." This name 
came from his favorite pastime, fishing; 
as a boy he spent long hours in that pos 
ture, waiting for a strike on his line. 
Now, so many years later, he has fewer 
occasions to pass an idle afternoon on a 
riverbank. But he still likes to fish, and 
on those occasions when he gets out of 
Eveningstar, he rarely fails to bring 
along his fishing tackle. 

When Semoor came of age, he left 
Espar to seek his fortune. Among his 
companions were Florin Falconhand, 
Islif Lurelake, and Doust Sulwood, the 
nucleus of what would someday be 
named the Knights of Myth Drannor. 
Though sarcastic and scheming, 
Semoor was ever loyal to his compan 
ions, and ever a valued asset. In the 
course of their adventures, Semoor 
found his vocation as a cleric of Lathan- 
der, and earned his new name, Jelde 
Asturien. 

Jelde became a noble of Shadow dale 
when the knights returned from Water- 
deep with the pendant from Khelben 
"Blackstaff" Arunsun to claim lordship 
of Shadowdale. He took the title sene 
schal of the Tower of Ashaba, and 
served well in the conflicts with the 
drow, the Zhentarim, and the would- 
be-conquerer-tyrant, Lashan of Scar- 
dale. He retains the honorary title of a 
lord of Shadowdale. 

At last Jelde tired of the adventuring 
life. He chose to retire from the life of 
wandering to better serve Lathander. 
He presently resides at his deity's tem 
ple in Eveningstar and is a prominent, 
respected member of the clergy. Most 
of his time is devoted to matters of wor 
ship, administration, and sharing his 
wisdom and experience with upcoming 
members of Lathander's priesthood. 
But he does equip himself on occasion 
and sally forth in the Morninglord's 
service to the Stonelands, or elsewhere; 
and if the Knights of Myth Drannor 
needed his service, he could hardly 
refuse their request. 

Asturien dons magical chain mail and 
wields a magical hammer in combat. He 
is strong and hardy; but with his excel 
lent spell-casting capabilities, aug 


mented by his ring of spell storing, he 
no longer would need so much to 
engage in hand-to-hand combat. He 
recently possessed, for a brief time, a 
magical tooth, but it was taken from 
him in battle. The tooths powers had 
not yet been discovered; it may have 
been an artifact. 

For his glyph of warding spell, Jelde 
prefers the magical rune named 
telatha. Nicknamed "Morninglow," tela- 
tha is favored by priests of Lathander, 
who claim that the Mominglord taught 
it to them ages ago. (Clerics of other 
faiths may learn and employ it; Astu 
rien has taught his fellow cleric 
Knights, Doust and Rathan, to recog 
nize and to use it.) When triggered, the 
glyph explodes with the intense bright 
ness of the rising sun, automatically 
stunning for ld4 +1 segments and 
blinding the creature that triggers it. 
The blindness is permanent unless a 
saving throw vs. spells is successful, in 
which case it lasts ld6 turns. 

llUsTyt El vetiTnee 

ARMOR CLASS: 7 
MOVE: 12' 

Hit Points: 13 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (5'1") 96 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: 242 

Attack/Defense Modes: A,C/F,G 
Fourth-Level Human Magic-User 
S:12 1:18 W:16 D:17 C:14 CH:16 

Patron deity: Mystra. 

Home city or country: Shadow- 
dale. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Elvish. 

Weapon proficiency: Dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Animal training (horses), heal 


ing. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
14; Petrification/polymorph - 13; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 11; Breath weapon - 15; 
Spells - 12. 

Spells per level: 3/2/ - . 

Spells and cantrips commonly 
memorized: Blue light, burning 
hands, fire finger, friends, mirror 
image, scare, unlock, untie. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Brooch of shielding, slippers of spider 
climbing, potions of clairvoyance and 
polymorph self, two daggers, large 
pouch of medicinal herbs, tinderbox, 
12 wax candles, backpack, small mir 
ror. 

Of all the knights of Myth Drannor, 
only Illistyl is a native of Shadowdale. 
Her psionic abilities and aptitude for 
magic, noted in the Shadowdale census 
of the Year of the Harp, were discov 
ered accidentally by the Knights, who 
were actually seeking the weretiger 
who had slain the thief Alura 
Durshavin, one of their number. Doust 
Sulwood, then lord of the dale, brought 
her to live in the Tower of Ashaba after 
her parents, Ilcurt and Lasha Elventree, 
were killed in the battles with Zhentil 
Keep. Besides being concerned for the 
young woman's personal welfare, the 
Knights recognized her as an asset to be 
carefully protected and nurtured for 
the good of the dale. 

Her tutor in the art, Jhessail 
Silvertree, is also Illistyl's good friend. 
Since Jhessail became a mother, a 
greater role as spell weaver for the 
Knights has fallen to this young theur- 
gist. When the greater tasks are at 
hand, however, Illistyl steps aside and 
permits Jhessail to lend her full and for 
midable powers to the Knights' pro 
jects. Illistyl then takes care of the child 
of Jhessail and Merith Strongbow, and 
tends to the daily magical needs of the 
dale folk, as the deceased witch Sylune 
used to do, and calls for Elminster's aid 
if it is necessary. 

Illistyl is young, small, and lithe - 17 
winters old, 5'1" tall, and 96 pounds 
heavy. She is ambidextrous. Her 
straight, dark hair is cut just past shoul- 


109 













































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


der length, and her friendly eyes have 
an impish sparkle. She likes comfort 
able, colorful clothing, quickly taking 
breeches and a tunic instead of stuffy 
mage's robes or a lady's dress. She has a 
wry sense of humor, and is quite inde 
pendent and sharp-tongued - very 
necessary traits for anyone who would 
be the lover of the thief, Torm, as she is. 
Beneath her often-cocky exterior, Illis- 
tyl is sensitive, reliable, and acutely per 
ceptive. 

In addition to a traveling spellbook 
containing the "spells commonly memo 
rized," listed above, Illistyl has a book of 
36 cantrips. This repertoire consists of 
the following: 

Useful - Chill, clean, color, dampen, 
dry, dust, exterminate, flavor, freshen, 
polish, salt, shine, spice, stitch, sweet 
en, tie, warm, wrap. 

Reversed: Dusty, knot, tangle, 
untie. 

Legerdemain: Hide, present. 

Person-affecting: Blink, cough, 
giggle, sneeze, twitch, wink, yawn. 

Personal: Blue light, fire finger, 
unlock. 

Haunting: Footfall, rattle. 

Dove FaLcoNbANkb 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 59 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use and see 
below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6') 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
llth-Level Human Ranger 
S:17 1:18 W:17 D:16 013 CH:16 

Patron deity: Mielikki. 

Home city or country: Unknown. 

Current residence: Evermeet. 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Good, Centaur, Dryad, Elvish, Gold 
Dragon, Thorass, Treant. 


Weapon proficiencies: Longbow 
(specialization), long sword, two- 
handed sword, dagger, battle-ax. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Endurance, healing, swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
7; Petrification/polymorph - 8; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 9; Breath weapon - 8; 
Spells - 10. 

Spells per level: Druid - 2/-; 
magic-user - 2/ -. 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Druid - Entangle, invisibility to ani 
mals, predict weather, speak with ani 
mals. Magic-user - Enlarge, unseen 
servant. 

Special abilities: +11 damage vs. 
giant-class humanoids; surprise 50% of 
the time; tracking; may employ all non- 
written magical items that pertain to 
clairaudience, clairvoyance, ESP, and 
telepathy 

Magical items and equipment: 

Full plate armor +1, long sword +1 
luck blade (with 2 wishes), three arrows 
+2, three arrows +3, one arrow +4, 
two potions of extra-healing, cloak and 
boots of elvenkind, rogue stone (see 
below), quiver, five silver-tipped 
arrows, dagger, shield. 

Dove is the second-youngest of a 
famous family of five sisters. Her three 
illustrious older siblings are Sylune, the 
late witch and lady of Shadowdale; 
Alustriel, high lady of Silverymoon; and 
the bard Storm Silverhand, a resident 
of Shadowdale. The youngest sister is 
The Simbul, witch-queen of Aglarond. 
All of these human sisters are very old 
(Dove is 142), but retain their youthful 
appearance and vitality through the use 
of potions of longevity and similar mag 
ic. 

Besides being a Knight of Myth Dran- 
nor, Dove is, like her sister Storm, one 
of the Harpers. For many years even 
before the creation of the Knights, 
Dove fought the Zhentarim and their 
minions and other evil creatures of the 
Inner Sea lands. 

A number of times in the course of 
these activities, she encountered a band 
of young Cormyrian adventurers, the 
nucleus of the Knights of Myth Dran- 


nor. The battle leader of the group, one 
ranger named Florin Falconhand, was 
in need of training, and Dove served as 
his tutor. 

Florin more than repaid the service. 
Later when Dove had become the pris 
oner of Orvar "The Unseen" of the 
Zhentarim, she ran into Florin in the 
Whistling Wizard Inn in Voonlar, and he 
released her from her captivity. Dove 
relocated to Shadowdale to join the 
Knights of Myth Drannor; not long 
thereafter she took to husband Florin, 
the most "noble" man she had ever met. 

Soon after Doust relinquished his 
lordship over Shadowdale, the Knights 
moved on, concentrating their atten 
tion on Myth Drannor. Dove became 
pregnant, and she retired to Evermeet, 
the fabled island realm of elvenkind, to 
give birth and raise her child, Azalar 
Falconhand. She and Florin (and, of 
course, Azalar) are among the very few 
humans permitted to set foot in Ever 
meet. Dove and Azalar currently 
remain there, to be visited on occasion 
by Florin. 

Beautiful, graceful, and quiet. Dove is 
a tall woman - at 6' in height, she is not 
much shorter than her husband. Like 
her husband and many other Knights, 
Dove is ambidextrous. She is kind, 
calm, and firm; her reserved air con 
veys a strong sense of strength, confi 
dence and wisdom. She is probably the 
most shy and withdrawn of the sisters, 
but she is an accomplished singer and 
harpist, and in private she likes to 
dance. 

Listed under magical items and equip 
ment above, are only the most basic 
items that Dove would be found carry 
ing. She also will have whatever equip 
ment and provisions would be 
appropriate for the situation in which 
she is found, plus some cash or jewels. 
As all the long-lived sisters do, Dove has 
several secret caches of treasure about 
the Forgotten Realms, containing coins 
and jewelry, spare weapons and armor, 
as well as useful, common magic items 
(e.g., potions of healing and longevity, 
magical arrows, and perhaps a protec 
tion scroll). 


110 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


The rogue stone, which Dove 
Falconhand always carries, is a magical 
green gem. It will teleport her back to 
Evermeet, without error, when grasped 
and commanded. 

FLor)n FaLcoNbAwd 

ARMOR CLASS: -4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 66 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use and see 

below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M (6'2"), 162 pounds) 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Ninth-Level Human Ranger 
S:17 1:17 WTO D:17 CTO CH:14 

Patron deity: Mielikki. 

Home city or country: Espar. 
Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Good, Elvish, Dryadic, Treant. 

Weapon proficiencies: Long 
sword, staff, two-handed sword, dag 
ger, hand crossbow. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Armorer, riding, swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
8; Petrification/polymorph - 9; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 10; Breath weapon - 9; 
Spells - 11. 

Spells per level: Druid - 1/ -; 
magic-user - 1/ - . 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Druid - Pass without trace. Magic-user 
- Jump. 

Special abilities: +9 damage vs. 
"giant-class" humanoids; surprise 50% 
of the time; tracking. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Long sword +2, dagger +1, three bolts 
+2, Reptar's Wall (see below), potions 
of extra-healing and sweet water, rogue 
stone (see below), full plate armor, hand 
crossbow, quiver with 12 silver-tipped 
quarrels, staff, other appropriate 
equipment and provisions. 


Florin Falconhand, an imposing and 
inspiring man, is a senior member and 
the leading figure of the Knights of 
Myth Drannor. He was bom in Espar 26 
years ago to Hethcanter Falconhand 
(fourth-level fighter), a retired Cormyr- 
ian army captain, and the half-elf Sky- 
dusk (fourth-level magic-user). Florin 
himself is entirely human. 

In his youth. Florin was interested in 
nature (especially flowers) and 
elvenkind, and his mother encouraged 
him to learn about gardening. His 
father apprenticed him to the famous 
armorer, Hawkstone, believing the lad 
would need a more useful trade to get 
by in the world, but the boy ever pre 
ferred forest to forge. His long, solitary 
walks in the woods earned him the 
nickname "Silent," and allowed him to 
pick up smatterings of the Elvish, Dry 
adic, and Treant languages. 

When he came of age. Florin set out 
to find his fortune with his companions, 
Islif Lurelake, Jhessail Silvertree, Doust 
Sulwood, and Semoor Wolftooth. 
Skilled with sword and tongue, the 
ranger emerged as a leader in battle 
and the diplomatic representative of 
the band. 

After some time of adventuring with 
the Knights, Florin was considered fit 
by the wizard Khelben "Blackstaff" 
Arunsun of Waterdeep to be lord of 
Shadowdale. Florin declined the office, 
and allowed it to be bestowed upon his 
stalwart companion, Doust. Florin 
served as warden of Shadowdale, and 
represented the tiny state in diplomatic 
matters with neighboring lands and 
rulers. 

Florin would seem to be very impor 
tant to his patron deity, the forest god 
dess Mielikki - so important that she 
has appeared to him personally on at 
least seven occasions. In one such 
instance, she ordered him to marry 
Dove the ranger, telling him that it was 
"necessary." Dove had tutored him in 
the ways of the forest, and he had res 
cued her from a Zhentarim captor. 

Dove was not the first woman with 
whom Florin had been involved. 
Among the many ladies before with 


whom he had acquainted himself in his 
travels. Florin was enamored of the 
thief "Pennae," Alura Durshavin. Sadly, 
she was slain in Shadowdale by a 
weretiger. The lycanthrope turned out 
to be Lune Lyrohar, an unfortunate 
pleasure girl at Mother Tara's. (On the 
positive side, the search for her 
revealed the powers of Illistyl Elven- 
tree, who is now a member of the 
Knights.) 

Florin remains battle leader of the 
Knights, a formidable warrior. When 
not in service to the Knights, he retires 
to Evermeet, the tree-cloaked elven 
realm across the sea where his wife, 
Dove, and young son, Azalar, presently 
reside. The members of the little family 
are among the few humans permitted 
in that island kingdom. 

Spell ability of both magical and dru 
idic nature is now available to Florin; he 
has been trained by his companions, 
the sorceress Jhessail Silvertree, and 
the druid Lanseril Snowmantle. Among 
the magic-user spells, Florin can never 
learn magic missile, but he has learned 
and used find familiar in order to 
acquire his familiar, the hawk Minstrel. 
Minstrel has 2 hp and customarily rides 
about on Florins shoulder. Florin can 
telepathically see through the bird's 
eyes. 

Florin also has a white charger, a 
heavy war horse named Firefoam. 
Gained by a magical wish, Firefoam is 
the equivalent of a paladin's war horse. 
The beast (AC 5, hp 37, MV 18", INT 7) 
can communicate telepathically with 
Florin on a basic level - feelings, yes or 
no, danger, recognition of beings, and 
so forth. Firefoam can fight alone with 
hooves and teeth, or with a rider on his 
back, and will serve Florin for six more 
years. 

Among Florin's possessions are a 
unique, magical shield, Reptar's Wall, 
and a rogue stone. The rogue stone, just 
like the one possessed by his wife, Dove 
Falconhand, is a gift from the elves that 
can teleport Florin without error to 
Evermeet. 

Reptar's Wall (detailed in issue #89 of 
DRAGON(r)Magazine and FR4, THE 


111 













































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


MAGISTER) is a shield +2. It can cause 
the wearer to become invisible for 2d4 
rounds upon verbal command, once 
every 16 hours, or fly for two turns, 
once every 24 hours, draining a nearby 
magic item (charges from a chargeable 
item, all dweomer from a "one-shot" 
item, or negating a permanent item for 
a time) to do so. The shield makes no 
sound when struck or dropped. 

Florin is 6'2" tall, broad-shouldered, 
162 pounds, and ambidextrous. He has 
curly brown hair, blue-gray eyes, and a 
burn scar on his right hand (from pet 
ting a baby red dragon when small). He 
has a kingly demeanor, and is not as 
jovial as the other Knights; he is good- 
natured, but quiet and dignified. 

Islif luriel ate 

ARMOR CLASS: -4 
MOVE: 12' 

Hit Points: 48 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M (6', 146 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Eighth-Level Human Fighter 
S:18 1:11 W:ll D:17 C:17 CH:14 

Patron deity: Tempus. 

Home city or country: Espar, Cor- 
myr. 

Current residence: Arabel, Cor- 
myr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good. 

Weapon proficiencies: Ax, broad 
sword, halberd, long sword, scimitar, 
sling. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Alertness, riding, running, 
swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
10; Petrification/polymorph - 11; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 12; Breath weapon - 12; 
Spells - 13. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Long sword +1/+2 vs. magic-using 



and enchanted creatures, periapt of 
wound closure, potion of vitality, ring 
of protection +2, field plate armor, 
great helm, large shield, sling, pouch 
with 30 sling bullets, bullseye lantern, 
four flasks of oil, tinderbox, backpack, 
provisions, and water skin. 

Another member of the original par 
ty that came from Espar, at age 25 Islif 
Lurelake is a formidable warrior of 
high repute. 

The parents of Islif are Tesha and 
Buckman Lurelake. Her father. Buck- 
man, was a trader, often away from his 
family on business. Islif was often left 
free to roam as she would. At the local 
swimming hole she made friends with 
her future adventuring companions: 
Florin Falconhand, Jhessail Silvertree, 
Doust Sulwood, and Semoor Wolftooth. 

She also befriended a scarred old 
fighter, Skuldi Wolfspear, who became 
her first tutor in the arts of battle. 
Skuldi still makes a living as a hunter 
and guide in the Espar region. 

Adventuring, Islif proved herself a 
competent sword fighter, brave explor 
er, and a dependable companion. She 
gained skill rapidly and learned the use 
of many weapons, though she did not 
choose to favor any one with specializa 
tion. She normally uses her magical 
long sword in melee, and a sling for mis 
sile combat. 

Not long after Doust Sulwood was 
selected to become lord of Shadowdale, 
he asked Islif to marry him, and she 
accepted. Islif also served as captain of 
the militia of Shadowdale, and proved 
an able leader in battle against Zhentil 
Keep and Scardale. 

The couple's young son, Jhaok Sul 
wood, was born in Shadowdale on the 
22nd of Marpenoth, Year of the Worm. 
The boy has black hair, clear silver eyes, 
and already shows interest in following 
in his mother's footsteps as a fighter. 

After Doust gave up the lordship of 
Shadowdale to Mourngrym Amcathra, 
he and Islif retired, at least temporarily, 
to Arabel, where they are enjoying a 
peaceful life. For the present, they are 
content to take life easy and bring up 
their child well. 


Islif is tall and brawny (6', 146 
pounds), a fearless fighter with a devil- 
may-care attitude. As Doust well 
knows, she still has a streak of drill ser 
geant in her from the days of barking 
commands at Shadowdale's soldiers. 
Her boldness also makes her a good 
trader, as her parents were. She enjoys 
woodcarving and sculpting, and dis 
likes "macho" men. 

Islif has silvery-blue eyes and 
shoulder-length hair, black and very 
straight. She is more commonly found 
wearing day-to-day clothes or fashion 
able evening gowns these days, but she 
still keeps her trusty suit of field plate 
armor well oiled and ready for use. 

ShARANltVR 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 24 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Second-Level Human Ranger 
S:17 1:16 W:15 D:17 017 CH:14 

Patron deity: Tempus. 

Home city or country: Baldur's 
Gate. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Chaotic Good. 

Weapon proficiencies: Dagger, 
long sword, two-handed sword. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Riding, swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
14; Petrification/ polymorph - 15; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 16; Breath weapon - 17; 
Spells - 17. 

Special abilities: +2 damage vs. 
"giant-class" humanoids; surprise 50% 
of the time; tracking. 

Weapons and armor: Long sword, 
two-handed sword, chain mail, shield, 
dagger. 


112 












































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


The female ranger Sharantyr is the 
newest member of the Knights of Myth 
Drannor. Her lack of a surname is quite 
common in the Realms. She has yet to 
choose one, and might never do so. 

Sharantyr was born to a merchant 
couple in Baldur's Gate. Her father, Zun- 
zyr Thalomm, traded textiles, and her 
mother, Nathla, dealt in embroidery 
and fine needlework. Sharantyr never 
saw much of her native town, since her 
parents' careers took them all over the 
North. 

The life of a traveling merchant in the 
Realms can be as risky as that of an 
adventurer, as was demonstrated most 
tragically when Sharantyr was barely 2 
years of age. Her parents' caravan was 
waylaid by trolls north of Scornubel, 
and both killed. Sharantyr escaped 
miraculously in the confusion as the 
caravan dissolved. She fled many miles 
into the forest, alone, until she col 
lapsed from exhaustion after all the 
exertion and terror. 

She was found by a gentle ranger, 
Thauntyr, who treated her bruises and 
scrapes and nursed her back to health 
and vitality. He brought her up as if she 
were his own daughter, training her in 
wood lore and the use of weapons. 

Twenty years after he had saved 
Sharantyr from the dangers of the for 
est, Thauntyr passed away, victim of a 
fever. Sharantyr buried him, and then 
decided that she could no longer live 
alone in their little forest dwelling. She 
packed what possessions she could car 
ry, including her adoptive father's great 
sword, and journeyed away to find her 
fortune. 

She traveled south to Iriaebor, and 
then east, through Cormyr, to the Dale- 
lands. She had the misfortune of 
encountering a group of drow raiders, 
who took her prisoner and carried her 
deep beneath the earth. 

Luckily she was discovered and res 
cued by the Knights of Myth Drannor, 
who were on one of their forays against 
the evil elves of the Underdark. 
Impressed by Sharantyr's fighting skill, 
resourcefulness, and determination 
(she had the guts to face a beholder and 


to bait drow into a trap), the Knights 
offered Sharantyr a place in their 
ranks, which she gladly accepted. 

Sharantyr is graceful and beautiful, 
with long, silky, brown hair and gray- 
green eyes. Those eyes can almost 
smoke with silent anger; she has a hot 
temper, and though she has been 
through enough hardship to know 
when it is best to control her passions, it 
usually can be seen in her eyes. Sharan 
tyr is quiet, a woman of few words but 
much battle skill, and she enjoys famil 
iarizing herself with the Daielands by 
traveling with the bard. Storm 
Silverhand, of Shadowdale. 

She wears chain mail under her trav 
eling tunic and cloak, and carries a long 
sword at her side. She has a shield, but 
usually keeps it on her riding horse, 
unless she is expecting a melee. Her 
two-handed sword gets similar treat 
ment or, sometimes, is strapped to her 
back in its sheath. A dagger is concealed 
in each boot. Being ambidextrous, 
Sharantyr wields long sword, dagger, 
and shield equally well in either hand. 

This ranger has amassed enough 
experience points to advance to third 
level, but on account of all the bustle 
and trouble in the Dales of late, Florin 
Falconhand has not yet had time to 
train her, as he has promised to do. 

Jbessa)L Silventnee 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 26 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M(5'9", 91 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Eighth-Level Human Magic-User 
S:13 1:18 W:18 D:14 C:9 CH:14 

Patron deity: Mystra. 

Home city or country: Espar, Cor 
myr. 


Current residence: Wanders (the 
Daielands). 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Good, Dryad, Elvish, Treant. 

Weapon proficiencies: Dagger, 
staff. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Animal training (horses), forag 
ing, healing, plant lore, tracking. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
13; Petrification/polymorph - 11; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 9; Breath weapon - 13; 
Spells - 10. 

Spells per level: 4/3/3/2/ - . 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Dimension door, ESP, Tenser's floating 
disc, fly, haste, ice storm, Leomund's 
tiny hut, mirror image, push, sleep, spi 
der climb, strength. 

Magical items: Bracers of defense 
AC 2, pearl of power (recalls third-level 
spells), potion of fire resistance, ring of 
wizardry (doubles fifth-level spells; not 
yet usable), ring of shooting stars, spell 
scroll with wall of force, wand of magic 
missiles (48 charges), wand of metal 
detection (74 charges). 

Small and motherly, but command 
ing, Jhessail Silvertree is the maternal 
leader of the Knights of Myth Drannor. 

Like many of the senior Knights, Jhes 
sail is a native of Espar, Cormyr. She is 
the daughter of foresters and elfriends, 
Criag and Lhanna Silvertree, from 
whom she inherited an undying inter 
est in elves and woodlands. 

As a child, Jhessail was fascinated by 
magic as soon as she discovered it. The 
elves, on good terms with her family, 
discovered that besides having any 
child's delight with conjurers' tricks, 
"Twoteeth," as she was nicknamed, had 
a real aptitude for the art. Even before 
she could read or write well, Jhessail 
had discovered how to use a few simple 
cantrips, just from carefully observing 
mages and their apprentices. She 
delighted her young friends with such 
petty magics as blue light. The elves, 
with her parents' permission, arranged 
for the precocious child to be tutored 
immediately by Hezom of Espar. 

Formal training matured Jhessail's 
magical talents, even as nature and a 


113 













































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


healthy lifestyle developed her body 
into one of striking, near-elfin beauty. 
Her old nickname, Twoteeth, was 
replaced by "Flamehair," on account of 
her long, fiery, orange-brown tresses. 
She has a slim, exquisite figure (5'9", 91 
pounds), a gentle mouth, and dark gray- 
green eyes. She came to favor simple 
apparel, such as plain, dark robes, that 
allows her natural beauty to shine. 

After completing her apprenticeship 
to Hezom, Jhessail was encouraged by 
her parents to go out and see the world; 
so she set off with a band of friends, the 
nucleus of the Knights of Myth Dran- 
nor. One woman in the group, a magic- 
user named Martess, was soon killed; 
she too had been an apprentice of 
Hezom and a good friend of Jhessail. 
The loss hurt this sensitive, young sor 
ceress; but it helped to harden her to 
the harsh realities of an adventurer's 
life. And she rose rapidly in power, 
reading a libram of silver magic and 
acquiring a familiar, a black cat named 
Jet (AC 7, hp 4, MV 12", INT 14). 

Talents besides magic were cultivated 
by Jhess (as she now is usually called by 
her fellow Knights). She learned and 
practiced her skills of healing, animal 
training, endurance, and riding. Her 
wide range of abilities made her power 
ful and respected among the Knights. 

Jhessail's first lover was one of the 
Knights, the cleric Jelde Asturien, who 
had also come from Espar. The elf 
Merith Strongbow contested Jelde's 
claims on Jhessail. Ultimately, the 
choice was, of course, Jhessail's, and 
she decided that she loved Merith 
more. Winning his hand in marriage 
before all the Elven Court was no mean 
task, but Jhessail proved herself well. 
By elven standards she is extremely 
young; and even though she seeks to 
extend her life span by magical means, 
she hasn't hoped to outlive even the 
youth of her husband. 

The marriage, enacted on Alturiak 
15, Year of the Worm, has produced one 
half-elven daughter, Velutbil Silverbow. 
The first name means "beautiful of the 
evening," in reference to the time of her 
birth on Mirtul 1, Year of the Prince; 


"veluthe" means "beautiful," and "thil," 
"evening." Veluthil's surname is a combi 
nation of those of her parents, as is tra 
dition for half-elves of the Realms; 
when she grows older she may keep 
this name or choose another. 

Veluthil is cared for by Illistyl Elven- 
tree at least as much as by her mother; 
as the Knights of Myth Drannor mem 
ber most experienced in the use of mag 
ic, Jhessail's services are often in 
demand, and she is not one to miss 
adventure. 

She is warm, kind, and understand 
ing, yet strict and proper. Her passion 
and strong will are tempered by great 
self-control. Jhess has undertaken to 
train Illistyl Elventree as her successor 
and to develop Florin Falconhand's new 
magical powers. She also is carefully 
nudging her infant into familiarity with 
magic. 

Jhessail's spells, built up from 
spellbooks gained in the Knights' adven 
tures, are shared freely with the other 
spell-casters of the group, particularly 
her husband. Besides her memorized 
spells, Jhessail has an impressive array 
of magical devices that make her quite 
formidable in combat. 

In addition to a traveling spellbook 
containing the "spells commonly memo 
rized," listed above, Jhessail has a book 
of 34 cantrips. This repertoire consists 
of the following: 

Useful - Chill, clean, color, dampen, 
dry, dust, flavor, freshen, gather, polish, 
salt, shine, spice, stitch, sweeten, tie, 
warm, wrap. 

Reversed - Tangle, untie. 

Legerdemain - Change, hide, 
mute, present. 

Person-affecting - Blink, yawn. 

Personal - Blue light, fire finger, 
gnat, mouse, smoke puff unlock. 

Haunting - Tap, thump. 

Us)$en)l SNouumawUe 

ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 54 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 


spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
SIZE: M(6'2", 100 pounds) 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Eight-Level Half-Elven Druid 
S:10 1:14 W:17 D:14 C:12 CH:16 

Patron deity: Sylvanus. 

Home city or country: Snowman- 
tie. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Elvish, Neu 
tral, Centaur, Druidic, Dryad, Faun, 
Gnome, Hill Giant, Orcish, Treantish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Scimitar, 
spear, staff. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Animal trainer (badgers), direc 
tion sense, fungus identification. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
7; Petrification/polymorph - 10; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 11; Breath weapon - 13; 
Spells - 12. 

Spells per level: 6/6/4/2/ -. 

Spells commonly learned: Ani 
mal friendship, call lightning, call wood 
land beings, charm person or mammal, 
cure disease, cure light wounds, good 
berry, know alignment, plant door, pre 
dict weather, purify water, summon 
insects, trip, warp wood. 

Special abilities: Identify plant, 
animal, pure water; pass through over 
grown areas without leaving discern 
ible trail; immune to the charm of 
woodland creatures; change shape to 
animal up to three times per day; +2 on 
saving throws vs. fire and lightning; 
30% resistance to sleep, charm; infra 
vision 60'; detect concealed doors. 

Magical items: Bracers of defense 
AC 5, ring of protection +1, Firecrown 
(see below), druidic spell scroll with 
cure light wounds x 2, cure serious 
wounds, neutralize poison, and trans 
mute rock to mud. 

Lanseril is a native of Snowmantle, a 
tiny village north of Daggerdale, on the 
edge of the Border Forest. When he 
came of age, he took his village's name 


114 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


as his own. 

Raunaeril "The Rose," an elf, was Lan- 
seril's father; his mother was a beauti 
ful human maiden of Snowmantle, 
Nelael "Heth's Girl." 

Lanseril loved to play in the forest 
with the elves, and hated what little he 
saw of cities. A druid who lived in the 
forest near Snowmantle, one Haem- 
faest "Holloweye" Sarthun (he had lost 
his left eye in a long-ago battle, but 
refused to wear an eye patch), took a 
fancy to the half-elven lad and intro 
duced him to the worship of Silvanus. 

Silvanus was to Lanseril a much more 
believable deity than Rillifane Rallathil, 
the elven deity favored by his father's 
tribe. This was in spite of the fact that 
Haemfaest and the elves believed that 
Lanseril had once, unknowingly, met 
Rillifane on the forest paths, and played 
tag with him around the trees until, in 
full view of Raunaeril, who was angrily 
approaching, the green-clad elf with 
the bow whom Lanseril was chasing 
turned into a great oak tree. Then one 
night, over a week later, that great oak 
tree vanished. 

Raunaeril's was one of "The Lost," the 
elven tribe that inhabited the Border 
Forest; perhaps they still do, but they 
have not been heard from for over 30 
years. They appear to have been killed 
off or forced to withdraw by the 
increasing strength of humankind in 
the North, and by the ores who seized 
the mines of Tethyamar and began raid 
ing from them into the lands about. 

Both of Lanseril's parents perished, 
together, on the trampled banks of the 
river Tesh, in a bloody struggle with 
raiders from the Citadel of the Raven. 
Six-year-old Lanseril was left behind. 
Fortunately, the druid Haemfaest, 
looked after the half-mad, disconsolate 
boy; but one winter night, about a year 
later, the old druid fell prey to a pack of 
hungry wolves. The boy was pursued 
by the wolves, and was forced to flee 
south. He bears a near-obsessive hatred 
for those animals to this day. 

Eventually Lanseril arrived in 
Deepingdale, where, in Highmoon, he 
was able to carve out a niche for him 


self. He worked for a local merchant, 
Braun o' the Beard, as a runner, errand- 
boy and animal keeper; even then he 
could train animals and identify their 
unique sounds, or "voices" as he always 
called them. Lanseril worked devotedly 
for Braun for 12 years, seeing much of 
the local roads and businesses. But in 
the end, he was made miserable by the 
jealous younger cousin of Braun, who 
hoped to inherit the business, and 
didn't want a competent, well-liked 
apprentice blocking his plans. 

In a way, it was opportune that Lan 
seril was forced to seek new horizons. 
A ranger, Briadorn of the druidic Circle 
of Shadowdale, saw Lanseril gently car 
ing for an injured hare, treating its 
wounds with herbs, and offered to 
bring him to the dale. 

Lanseril accepted, and soon became a 
most valuable member of the Knights of 
Myth Drannor. Though quiet and gen 
tle in appearance, he is perhaps the 
greatest strategist among the Knights 
(his clever use of an insect plague from 
a spell scroll was instrumental in 
defeating Zhentil Keep's reinforce 
ments in the Battle of Shadowdale), and 
a shrewd, Machiavellian diplomat. He 
has an absolutely phenomenal memory, 
able to recognize faces, sigils, even 
handwriting years after seeing it last, 
and he can sometimes almost recite ver 
batim conversations overheard long 
ago. Lanseril sees all, remembers all, 
and thinks on his feet. 

Lanseril has brown hair, delicate fea 
tures and blue eyes. He is ambidex 
trous, 6'2" tall, 100 pounds, and 48 
years old. He is generally friendly, but 
sometimes with a hint of condescen 
sion. Since becoming a Knight, he has 
developed a great attachment to Sha 
dowdale and its people, whom he 
regards as being under his protection 
as much as the local woods are. 

Possessions are few for this druid; he 
has no great longing for worldly goods, 
and he understands how easily they 
come and go. Of note among the things 
he does keep is the Firecrown, a magi 
cal treasure. It is a golden circlet whose 
gems, usable twice every 200 turns, can 


emit two rays of fire, doing 18 points of 
damage (half if a save vs. spells is made). 
This enchanted coronet was won from 
giants in the Flaming Tower, a fortress 
that Lanseril and his companions 
destroyed with the aid of treants. 

Lanseril also has two trained badgers, 
who can dig, fetch keys (or similarly 
small items), gnaw ropes, and the like 
upon telepathic command. 

He has enough experience to advance 
to ninth level, if he could ever spare the 
time for the necessary training and 
communion with nature. 

MenOTh STRowgbouj 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 42 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: 152 
Attack/Defense Modes: A,B/F,G 
Sixth-Level Elven Fighter 
Sixth-Level Magic-User 
S:17 1:17 W:15 D:14 C:12 CH:16 

Patron deity: Rillifane Rallathil. 
Home city or country: Elven 
Court. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Elvish, Common, Cha 
otic Good, Gnome, Halfling, Goblin, 
Hobgoblin, Orcish, Gnoll. 

Weapon proficiencies: Dagger, 
long sword, longbow. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Animal trainer (deer), bowyer/ 
fletcher, direction sense, swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
11; Petrification/polymorph - 11; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 9; Breath weapon - 13; 
Spells - 10. 

Spells per level: 4/2/2/ -. 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Affect normal fires, ESP fly, haste, mir- 


115 












































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


ror image, read magic, sleep, Tenser's 
floating disc. 

Special abilities: 90% resistance to 
sleep, charm; +1 to hit with bow, 
sword; detect secret/concealed doors; 
surprise. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Elfin chainmail +2, Sylabra (intelligent 
long sword; see below), shield +1, 
three arrows +1, arrow of slaying dev 
ils, wand of magic detection (84 
charges), wand of wonder (37 charges), 
oil of fiery burning, potion of invisibili 
ty, scroll of protection from devils, long 
bow, quiver of 16 silver-tipped arrows; 
other equipment appropriate to spe 
cific mission. 

Merith Strongbow is a tall, black 
haired moon elf, ambidextrous, with 
one eye blue and one green. He was 
born 184 years ago, on the banks of the 
River Duathamper in the Great Wood 
(more commonly called the Elven 
Court), to Laerune and Lianthorn 
Strongbow. 

The elves train their folk carefully 
and well, and Merith was no exception. 
His father tutored him in the use of 
weapons, and they practiced their skills 
in battle against the men, from the 
developing Dalelands and Moonsea cit 
ies, who were trying to clear the forest, 
upon which the elves depended and 
which they cherished so dearly. 
Merith's first magical training came 
from the "Gray Ladies" of Sem- 
berholme, an elven retreat on the 
shores of Lake Sember. 

After the death of his parents 20 
years ago, Merith sought to avenge 
their murder, but never managed to 
locate their slayer, a human mercenary 
warrior-captain named Todelyn. To this 
day he remains alert for any clue as to 
the whereabouts of that man, but he 
has become involved in pursuits more 
constructive than vengeance. 

Central to those pursuits was Merith's 
joining the Knights of Myth Drannor. 
He was sent by the Elven Court, with 
the purpose of influencing the Shadow- 
dale adventurers to steer them from 
actions harmful to the elven woods and 
ways. Carrying a letter from Luvon, a 


elven ally of Doust Sulwood and compa 
ny, Merith was instantly accepted and 
has remained in the company ever 
since. 

Strongbow has served well among 
the knights; he is formidable as both 
fighter and mage. Augmenting his mag 
ical powers is a familiar, a black cat 
named Shadowclaw (AC 7, MV 13", hp 
4, INT 12). He used to have a pseudo 
dragon, Esshkk, but that familiar per 
ished in a battle with evil nagas in the 
ruins of Myth Drannor. 

The most important things in Merith's 
life today are his wife and child. After 
joining the Knights, he fell in love with 
their sorceress, Jhessail Silvertree. 
They have had one daughter, Veluthil 
Silverbow (see Jhessail's description, 
above). Merith holds great respect for 
Jhessail's superior magical powers, and 
she in turn is impressed by his mixture 
of abilities as a multi-classed character. 
The two cooperate in combat, each 
lending the other whatever assistance 
might prove most efficient, and each 
also looking to protect the other. After 
adventuring together for so long a time, 
the two make a very effective team. 

Jhessail and Merith are an effective 
team in every other way. They are 
deeply in love, each willing to sacrifice 
anything and everything for the other, 
or their child, Veluthil. 

Merith is sometimes saddened by the 
thought of outliving Jhessail; but in typ 
ical elven manner, he will not let it inter 
fere with his appreciation of the joys of 
the present. And he is comforted by the 
thought of seeing Veluthil mature and 
become as beautiful and formidable as 
her mother. 

Associating with humans, Merith's 
lifestyle is certainly different from that 
of the typical elf in the Elven Court, but 
he enjoys it; and though the People (the 
elves) have left the Elven Court for the 
safety of Evermeet, Merith remains 
with the Knights. He knows well that, 
with elven longevity, provided he is not 
slain, he can expect to devote many 
future centuries to other activities. 

Besides the typical elven affinities for 
woodlands, animals, etc., Merith enjoys 


swimming a great deal and is interested 
in fine woodwork and carved adorn 
ment. At present, he only collects such 
items, but some time in the far future 
he might be interested enough to learn 
how to craft them. 

Since the elves left the Elven Court, 
Merith has become increasingly reck 
less in battle. He particularly hates ores, 
drow, and the Zhentarim. He dislikes 
dwarves, but in truth has had little con 
tact with them. 

Sylabra is Merith's favored weapon. It 
is a silver long sword +3 of Chaotic 
Good alignment, with Intelligence 14 
and ego 6. It can detect invisible objects 
(1" radius), detect magic (1" radius), 
and glow with a silvery-blue radiance at 
the bearer's will. 

In addition to a traveling spellbook 
containing the "spells commonly memo 
rized," listed above, Merith has a book 
of 35 cantrips. This repertoire consists 
of the following: 

Useful - Chill, clean, color, dampen, 
dry, dust, flavor, freshen, gather, shine, 
spice, sprout, stitch, sweeten, tie, 
warm, wrap. 

Reversed - Dusty tangle, untie. 

Legerdemain - Change, hide, 
mute, palm, present. 

Person-affecting - Giggle, sneeze, 
wink, yawn. 

Personal - Blue light, unlock. 

Haunting - Footfall, groan, moan, 
whistle. 

Doust Suit voob 

ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 44 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Eighth-Level Human Cleric 
S:16 1:14 W:17 D:13 C:14 CH:12 


116 












































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


Patron deity: Tymora. 

Home city or country: Espar, Cor- 
myr. 

Current residence: Arabel, Cor- 
myr. 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Good. 

Weapon proficiencies: Flail, 

mace, staff. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Alertness, swimming, tracking, 
weather sense. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
7; Petrification/polymorph - 10; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 11; Breath weapon - 13; 
Spells - 12. 

Undead turning: Skeleton - D*; 
Mummy - 7; Zombie - D* ; Spectre - 
10; Ghoul - D; Vampire - 13; Shadow 
- D; Ghost - 16; Wight - T; Lich - 19; 
Ghast - T; Special - 20; Wraith - 4. 

Spells per level: 5/5/4/2/ -. 

Spells commonly memorized: 
Aid, continual light, cure disease, cure 
light wounds, cure serious wounds, 
death's door, dispel magic, dust devil, 
find traps, magic stone, portent, protec 
tion from evil 10' radius, remove fear, 
sanctuary, silence 15' radius, spiritual 
hammer. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Chain mail +1, ring of protection +1, 
shield +1, potion of clairaudience, cler 
ical spell scroll (with hold person, speak 
with monsters and spike stones), mace, 
staff, holy symbol, holy water. 

Yet another native of Espar, Doust 
was born to Farflung Sulwood and his 
wife, Piirl. Doust's mother perished in 
childbirth. His father, a retired Cormyr- 
ian soldier, never remarried, nor even 
really recovered from the loss of his 
beloved, taking comfort chiefly in drink 
and, on rare occasion, in his son. Doust 
group up lonely, afraid of a drunken 
father whom he never could seem to 
adequately please, and his awkward 
ness earned him the nickname, "Clum- 
sum." 

As soon as he was old enough to 
leave, Doust set off in search of adven 
ture with the other youths of his age - 
Florin Falconhand, Semoor Wolftooth, 
etc. Though he is by nature quiet and 


careful, Doust embraced the religion of 
Tymora, hoping that service to this god 
dess of luck and adventure would help 
him break out of a life of drifting inac 
tivity. His first tutor in clerical ways was 
Transtor Asberil. 

Doust soon distinguished himself as a 
solid fighter in the ranks of the Knights. 
Within two years of departing from 
Espar, he found himself named by his 
companions to be lord of Shadowdale, 
after Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun of 
Waterdeep offered the rulership to the 
party. 

Soon thereafter, Doust married Islif 
Lurelake, his companion-in-arms. They 
have had one child, a son named Jhaok 
Sulwood (see Islif Lurelake's descrip 
tion, above). 

Lord Doust Sulwood proved himself 
an effective, popular leader, in spite of 
the chaos that accompanied his reign, 
with troubles from Zhentil Keep, 
Lashan of Scardale, and the Cult of the 
Dragon resulting in the deaths of many 
of Doust's subjects. A lasting contribu 
tion to the Dale was the "lord's court," a 
weekly meeting where the dalefolk 
could speak openly about their griev 
ances and views, and internal affairs 
could there be decided by the vote of 
the Council of Elders. 

In the end, Doust relinquished his rul 
ership to the cavalier Mourngrym 
Amcathra, also a Knight. It was difficult 
for Doust to reconcile the fickle 
demands of Lady Luck and still make 
responsible decisions to ensure the 
safety of the dalefolk. Since he did not 
wish to forsake his goddess, he gave up 
the dale rather than rule poorly. 

Doust has settled in Arabel with his 
wife and son. There they live peaceful 
ly, and Doust is free to worship his deity 
at the local temple, unharried by the 
heavy burden of leadership. He particu 
larly enjoys the freedom of leisure time 
with his wife and raising his son. 


RaThaN ThebfCiuveri 

ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 39 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M(6', 232 pounds) 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Human Cleric 
S:16 1:15 W:17 D:10 C:12 CH:9 

Patron deity: Tymora. 

Home city or country: Arabel, 
Cormyr. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Chaotic 
Good. 

Weapon proficiencies: Club, flail, 

mace. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Endurance, fungus identifica 
tion, slow respiration. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
9; Petrification/polymorph - 12; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 13; Breath weapon -15; 
Spells - 14. 

Undead turning: Skeleton - D; 
Mummy - 13; Zombie - D; Spectre - 
16; Ghoul - T; Vampire - 20; Shadow 
-T; Ghost - -; Wight - 4; Lich - -; 
Ghast - 7; Special - -; Wraith - 10. 
Spells per level: 5/5/3/-. 

Spells commonly memorized: 
Command, cure light wounds x 2, 
detect evil, enthrall, find traps, locate 
object, meld into stone, messenger, 
sanctuary, silence 15' radius, slow poi 
son, water walk. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Footman's mace +1, ring of the ram, oil 
of earth elemental invulnerability, 
splint mail, shield, always carries sev 
eral full skins of wine. 

A fat, jolly cleric, Rathan is the closest 
friend of the thief, Torm; the two are an 
effective and amusing team in their 
adventures, each ribbing the other as 


117 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


much and as well as they cooperate. 

Rathan is a heavy drinker, much 
enamored of his ubiquitous wine; this 
makes him the butt of many of Torm's 
jests. But the cleric is not really a buf 
foon, as the light-fingered friend under 
stands; his "drunken sot" act hides his 
sensitive, romantic character. Without 
alcohol, Rathan fears his sensitive and 
prudent nature would win out; but as a 
priest of Tymora, he needs to favor luck 
and live in danger. So he steels himself 
with drink; and to be able to drink 
much, he eats like a starving wolf. This 
makes him rather obese, but permits 
him to drink a great deal without stag 
gering and slurring his jests. 

Born to a merchant family of shoe 
makers in Arabel on Kythorn 6, Year of 
the Thunder, Rathan was the child of 
Rathmur and Ulla Thentraver. From 
Rafhmur, Rathan inherited his jovial, 
bluntly honest manner, while his 
plump, homely features can be traced 
to his mother. Both parents died of chol 
era before Rathan had come of age, and 
the boy found himself quickly inducted 
into the priesthood of Tymora, so that 
his greedy uncles could acquire all the 
family wealth. 

Segril, Rathan's superior in Tymora's 
temple in Arabel, commanded the 
young priest to go out to "spread the 
Lady's favor (and influence) among 
adventurers, those active in strife, 
change, and perilous deeds in the multi- 
versei." Many speculate that Segril just 
wanted to be rid of him. 

The Dalelands were where Rathan 
found himself, and he joined the ranks 
of the Knights of Myth Drannor in Sha- 
dowdale. Among them, he has proven 
stout and fearless in combat; in one par 
ticularly fierce battle with mages of the 
Zhentarim, he won a ring of the ram. 

Rathan is 6' tall, 232 pounds, and left- 
handed. He has brown hair, a stubbly 
mustache, rivetting brown eyes, and 
large strong features (which earned 
him the nickname "Strongjaws" in his 
childhood). 


Torn) 

ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 24 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Human Thief 
S:13 1:12 W:12 D:16 C:ll CH:15 

Patron deities: Mask and Tymora. 

Home city or country: Westgate. 

Current residence: Wanders (the 
Dalelands). 

Languages: Common, Chaotic Neu 
tral, Thieves' Cant. 

Weapon proficiencies: Dagger, 
club, long sword. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Blind-fighting, riding, rope use, 
swimming. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
12; Petrification/polymorph - 11; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 12; Breath weapon - 15; 
Spells - 13. 

Thieves' abilities: Pick pockets 
55%, open locks 52%, find/remove 
traps 45%, move silently 47%, hide in 
shadows 37%, hear noise 20%, climb 
walls 92%, read languages 30%. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Bracers of defense AC 4, bag of holding 
(a backpack, actually with a contents 
limit of 500 pounds), cloak of comfort 
(detailed in FR4, THE MAGISTER), two 
throwing daggers +1, long sword, 
appropriate traveling gear, and miscel 
laneous equipment. 

A smooth-tongued trickster, Torm is 
consistently and lightheartedly insult 
ing, obscene, and outrageous in his 
speech. He is the cockiest of all the 
Knights, remorselessly goading even 
his adventuring fellows to the brink of 
belting him; the women often do hit 
him, hard and accurately. His best 
friend, Rathan Thentraver, is the most 
common butt of Torm's jests and jibes. 


The thief is carefree and daring, nev 
er resisting the chance to add a dash of 
bold, flashy daring to a venture. When 
once asked about his brazen attitude to 
adventuring, he responded, "The war 
cries and all? Well, if you're risking 
death, why not have fun? If I wanted to 
risk death without having fun, I'd be a 
tax collector, not a thief." On another 
occasion, a person demanded of him, 
"Have you no honor?" to which Torm 
lightly confessed, "Aye, indeed. I keep it 
at the bottom of my backpack and take 
it out to shine it up and look at it on 
windy nights in the wilderness, by the 
fire. It looks grand, I tell you. But it is 
poor company, and doesn't keep one 
warm." 

Perhaps to keep himself warm, Torm 
has cut quite a swath through the ladies 
of Sembia, Hillsfar, and (surprisingly) 
Zhentil Keep. Torm's charm easily wins 
him many fair maidens - and some 
times angry fathers and brothers when 
he departs in pursuit of another adven 
ture or another lass. (He currently 
steers clear of all three of those places.) 

One romance in which Torm is now 
involved seems to be gaining unusual 
(for Torm) longevity, and this is with 
Illistyl Elventree, a fellow Knight of 
Myth Drannor: Torm continues to dally 
with other women, but finds a particu 
lar attraction for that young sorceress, 
and she has helped bring out a softer, 
kinder side of the rogue. Some Knights 
speculate that if he ever grows most of 
the way out of his "perpetual adoles 
cence," the two might settle down in 
some sort of stable relationship. 

Torm is handsome, of slim build, with 
green eyes, black hair, and a fine mus 
tache. He likes to dress extravagantly; 
on special occasions he wears a pen 
dant of a king's tear (an extremely rare 
gem, unique to the Realms) set in a web 
like mesh of electrum. 

Netha, a prostitute of Westgate, bore 
Torm; it is generally believed that 
Dathguld, a lord of that city, was his 
father. This noble lineage is the reason 
that the Night Masks (a band of thieves 
and assassins) have on several occa 
sions tried to end Torm's life. They 


118 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


probably have been hired by Orgule, a 
rival lord; Torm therefore avoids 
Westgate in his travels. His favored ali 
as, "Rathgar," is becoming far too well- 
known for safe, continued use. 

In battle, the thief prefers to wield a 
long sword, and sometimes one of his 
daggers as well. (He always carries one 
in each boot.) 

Torm has a particular fascination 
with magical devices. Besides those list 
ed above among his possessions, the 
thief normally carries ld4 minor items. 
The following table may be used to 
determine them specifically: 

d% 

Roll Result 

01 Any item 

02 Beads of force (ld3) 

03 Cyclocone 

04 Dart of the hornets' nest 

05 Deck of illusions 

06-08 Dust, magical (appearance, dis 
appearance, dryness, illusion, or 
tracelessness) 

09 Eyes of minute seeing or Lens of 
detection 

10 Fire gyregam (see FR4, THE 

MAGISTER, for details) 

11 Keoghtom's ointment 

12 Mist of rapture (see FR4, THE 

MAGISTER, for details) 

13 Necklace of missiles (ld4 mis 

siles) 

14 Nolser's marvelous pigments 
15-59 Potion (any type, consult 

UNEARTHED ARCANA tables) 
60-62 Quaal's feather tokens 
63-97 Scroll (protection or not more 
than four spells; consult 
UNEARTHED ARCANA tables) 

98 Sheet of smallness 

99 Sovereign glue 

00 Ultimate solution 

The DM is encouraged to expand this 
table with items from other sources 
(such as DRAGON(r)Magazine, and his 
own imagination). Appropriate items 
are those with limited charges and/or 
relatively minor effects; in any case, 
avoid anything with an XP value greater 
than 1,000. Torm particularly likes 


flashy items, and he has an interest in 
items with applications outside adven 
turing (e.g., a comb that grooms the 
user when its command word is spo 
ken). The thief can rarely resist the 
chance to obtain a new item, by trade, 
trick, or theft. 

(A special word of thanks must go to 
Ed Greenwood for providing reams of 
valuable notes on the Knights; also to be 
thanked are those players who first 
brought to life the personalities 
described above.) 

The CompawY of 

Eight 

The Company of Eight is an adventur 
ing band of the country of Tethyr (see 
FR3, EMPIRES OF THE SANDS). Since 
its formation 13 years ago, the Compa 
ny has risen in fame. The Company's 
efforts for justice in Tethyr's power vac 
uum have demonstrated that, even 
after the fall of the Tethyr kings, there 
may be the means and the will to 
achieve a political situation that is nei 
ther anarchy nor despotism. With per 
severance and luck, the Company may 
also be instrumental in guaranteeing 
that Tethyr's next dynasty (if there is to 
be one) starts off on the path of right 
eousness, peace, and freedom. 

When the Company was founded, it 
had eight members: Mirthal Aendryr 
(male elf magic-user/thief), Raima 
Damond (human female fighter), Nes- 
trun Farclutch (human male fighter), 
Chiaelin Frendel (female half-elf 
fighter/cleric), the brothers Alain and 
Tardeth Llanistaph (human male rang 
ers), Thiel Ralmun (human male magic- 
user), and Kaleene Thalwood (human 
female druid). These people had all 
adventured together at one time or 
another, and they decided that they 
would do best to come together as an 
organized group. Some people - most 
notably Alain Llanistaph - believed 
right off that the Company ought to be 
devoted to a noble cause, like justice 
and peace in Tethyr; but initially, the 


group was, by and large, most devoted 
to the ideals of profit and adventure. 

It was a tragedy that changed the 
Company's orientation from profit to its 
present tripartite goals of peace, free 
dom, and justice. Within the Company's 
first year its leader, Alain Llanistaph, 
was slain and could not be resurrected. 
(See the description of his brother, Tar 
deth, below, for more details.) This led 
the other companions to wonder: Was 
Alain's death really worthwhile? Was 
profit really worth the life of so noble a 
man? Especially one who really wasn't 
himself interested in the money? Alain 
usually made large donations to charity, 
and it was no secret that he had hoped 
the Company would grow to work for 
higher ideals than profit. Kaleene Thal 
wood became the Company's leader, 
and her suggestion that service take 
precedence over profit was accepted. 
The companions swore an oath to each 
other and their cause; and they pro 
nounced the new eighth companion to 
be their guide and guardian, the Lady 
of Truth and Justice. 

After this reorientation, the Compa 
ny became involved in a number of 
small projects: driving away humanoids 
and other lesser monsters, miscellane 
ous small tasks to assist individuals in 
need, plus the staple caravan escort 
work on the Trade Way that earned it 
its living. 

The first real measure of fame came 
to the Company 11 years ago. A green 
dragon, apparently from the eastern 
depths of the Forest of Tethir, was feast 
ing on caravans that traveled the Trade 
Way. Then it was so bold as to assault 
and plunder a small village north of 
Mosstone. Fear swept the region: Mer 
chants couldn't find guards or drovers 
willing to risk the Trade Way, villages 
called meetings and tried to muster 
defenses against the rampaging lizard. 
Even before the lord mayor of Mos 
stone's decree offering a rich prize for 
the dragon's head was issued, the fledg 
ling Company of Eight had quickly risen 
to the challenge. 

The Company did slay the dragon 
(and discovered Chiaelin's sword to be a 


119 
















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


green dragon slayer; it is now a posses 
sion of the halfling, Paddy), but at the 
bitter price of Kaleene Thalwood's life. 
The Company earned a great deal of 
respect, however; perhaps as much of 
it came from the immediate donation of 
the lord mayor's reward to charity as 
from the actual defeat of the dragon. 
The dragon's hoard also found good 
use: With it the Company constructed a 
headquarters in the forest, and named 
it Cayr Thalwood, in honor of their late 
companion (see below). 

Since then, the Company of Eight's 
renown has continued to rise steadily - 
especially after the disintegration of all 
royal and much noble power in the Ten 
Black Days of Eleint a decade ago. With 
the disappearance of central govern 
ment, the Company's leader, Tardeth, 
has recognized the group's purpose as 
being all the more vital. The Company 
has continued to drive off monsters and 
marauders (including another dragon), 
and in slow times, the companions still 
may be found guarding merchant cara 
vans as they traverse the forest. But 
political matters have also attracted the 
Company's attention. On the small 
scale, oppressive lords have been pres 
sured into easing the burdens on their 
subjects, releasing persons wrongly 
imprisoned, and so forth. The most 
famous political endeavors of the Com 
pany (which have given it the leverage 
to do things like pressure leaders) were 
the successful effort to secure peace 
after a bloodbath in northeastern 
Tethyr eight years ago (an aftershock of 
the kingdom's fall), and, most notably, 
the Company's central role in the orga 
nization and leadership of the forces 
that crushed the rule of the late tyrant 
of Ithmong four years ago. 

The Company's current object of 
scrutiny is again Ithmong and its 
present ruler, Ernest Gallowglass, who 
seems determined to follow in his pred 
ecessor's totalitarian footsteps. Of 
course, Tardeth and his fellows do keep 
an eye on all Tethyr, as well as sur 
rounding lands; but Gallowglass has 
been flexing Ithmong's economic mus 
cles of late, and is said to be amassing an 


army, so he seems the biggest problem 
on the horizon. Though there is diversi 
ty of political views within the Compa 
ny, all agree that tyranny under 
Gallowglass is entirely undesirable. 

Changes have affected the Company 
over the years; only one of its seven 
current members, Tardeth Llanistaph, 
goes back to the Company's creation. Of 
the six characters who have been 
replaced over the years, three died and 
three retired. The retirees all remain on 
very good terms with the group, 
though contact is not very frequent. 

Mirthal Aendryr (a Suldusk wood elf, 
fifth-level magic-user/seventh-level 
thief) departed only about a year ago 
and was replaced by Manny Arbustle, 
Arkaneus' druidic apprentice. Aendryr 
had wandered Faerun for a quarter 
century and then joined the Company, 
and simply wished to return to his peo 
ple for a time. Besides attending to his 
own business, Aendryr takes care to 
maintain a sanctuary for the Company 
of Eight in the southeast of the forest. 

Raima and Nestrun Damond (humans 
fighters of eighth and seventh level, 
respectively) settled down in Pailstone 
to marry and start a family. They now 
have three children: son Tardeth (age 
5), daughters Kaleene (2 1/2 and Arkanea 
(1). After Raima and Nestrun left six 
years ago, Marilyn Haresdown and 
Sylvanus Moondrop took their places in 
the Company. The young family still 
helps the Company by maintaining a 
sanctuary in the northeast arm of the 
Forest of Tethir, and by paying careful 
attention to all news and political devel 
opments in the country's northeastern 
region. 

A list of the present members of the 
Company of Eight, in order of seniority, 
is as follows: Tardeth Llanistaph, Arka 
neus Silvermane (human male druid), 
Marilyn Haresdown (human female 
fighter), Sylvanus Moondrop (elf male 
fighter), Lawantha Silendia (human 
female magic-user), Paddy Stoutfellow 
(halfling male fighter/thief), and Man 
fred "Manny" Arbustle (human male 
druid). 

Tardeth is recognized as spokesman 


of the group, and leader - the latter 
only to a certain extent, since any deci 
sion of significance is made by the vote 
of all the companions, but Tardeth's 
seniority and dedication gives his opin 
ion much weight. 

Friends and foes: Over the years, 
the Company has acquired quite a num 
ber of useful allies and at least as many 
enemies. Six brief examples follow; it is 
by no means a comprehensive selec 
tion, and the complete list is, of course, 
always changing. It should give the DM 
some ideas, though, of what resources 
the Company may have and what diffi 
culties might appear in the future. 

First some friends: Jordy Galium 
(eighth-level human male fighter) is the 
chief of the constabulary of Mosstone. 
Almost everyone in that town holds the 
Company of Eight in high regard. What 
makes Jordy special is that he is a long 
time friend of Tardeth; and, as an offi 
cer in the army of Tethyr, he was a 
comrade of Marilyn Haresdown years 
ago. 

Tethirmin (13th-level half-elf druid) is 
the arch-druid of Mosstone, and an 
extremely powerful and influential fig 
ure in the area. It was he who tutored 
Arkaneus Silvermane decades ago, and 
the two remain close. Rumor has it that 
Arkaneus is to succeed Tethirmin if that 
druid ascends to a higher position, 
retires, or otherwise vacates his post. 
How this would affect the status of 
Arkaneus in the Company - if he 
would accept the position at all - is a 
matter of intense speculation in local 
druidic circles. 

Garlokantha (small, sub-adult, female 
gold dragon) dwells in the east-central 
Forest of Tethir. The Company of Eight 
saved her from a band of evil adventur 
ers three years ago. She would happily 
repay the Company with any favor she 
could grant. 

And then some foes: Argrum Black- 
spear (ninth-level half-ore male fighter/ 
lOth-level thief) is a bandit chieftain 
operating along the Trade Way with a 
keen skill for organization. His own 
raiders have become the most success 
ful - in part by learning early on that 


120 














































the Company of Eight is to be avoided. 
He wishes to form an alliance of the 
most powerful bandit groups; of 
course, such an organization would 
surely attract the Company's attention, 
and rumors of it are spreading already. 
That is fine with Argrum, because a sec 
ond goal of his is to trap and eliminate 
the Company and thus make banditry 
easier for all. 

Tleobar (lOth-level female drow 
fighter/ fifth-level magic-user) encoun 
tered the Company of Eight three years 
ago in the Forest of Tethir, when, with 
some companions, she was attempting 
to slay and rob a gold dragon, Garlokan- 
tha. Tleobar, unlike her compatriots, 
escaped and survived. She holds quite a 
grudge against the Company - espe 
cially when she realized that the elf, 
Sylvanus Moondrop, was the same one 
who had led a daring and successful 
assault on her home in the Forest of Mir 
15 years earlier. The Company is totally 
unaware of Tleobar and her thirst for 
revenge. 

Lord Voranwell of Lylburg (ninth- 


level human male fighter) is a petty 
lordling who has often offended the 
Company's sense of justice and has 
been pressured into change. More than 
anything, this has wounded his pride. 
He therefore plots to make the lives of 
the companions miserable (especially 
those of Tardeth and Marilyn) in any 
way he can. Vain Lord Lylburg has even 
considered hiring an assassin, but 
hasn't quite mustered the boldness to 
do so. 

Cayr Thalwood is the name given to 
the primary base of the Company of 
Eight, located about 30 miles southeast 
of Mosstone in the Forest of Tethir. It is 
named after the druidess Kaleene Thal 
wood, an original member of the com 
pany, who was killed by the green 
dragon 11 years ago. 

Besides the main outpost near Mos 
stone, the Company maintains a dozen 
small sanctuaries, scattered through 
the forest. They are small, concealed 
locations (caves, hidden tree forts, cam 
ouflaged huts in dense portions of the 
wood, etc.), convenient for shelter and 


respite. In each is a cache of food and 
weapons and some dry blankets, and 
materials for minor repairs (needles, 
cloth, bowstrings, etc.), and supplies of 
bandages and dried healing herbs for 
treating wounds, poison, and illness. 

As was mentioned above, the one in 
the southeast is maintained by the Sul- 
dusk elf Aendryr, and the one in the 
northeast by Nestrun and Raima 
Damond. A few of other sanctuaries far 
from the main base (the pair on the 
peninsula, for example) are stocked and 
kept in order by friendly elf tribes (who 
also use them when necessary); other 
wise, the company members must 
themselves periodically check their 
upkeep. 


121 
































































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


MawfRed Anbustle 

ARMOR CLASS: 8 
MOVE: 1" 

Hit Points: 16 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Third-Level Human Druid 
S:12 1:14 W:15 D:10 C:12 CH:15 

Home city or country: Velen, 
Tethyr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral, Dru 
idic, Elvish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Quarter- 
staff, sling. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Horse riding, plant lore, 
animal lore. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/ poison - 
10; Petrification/polymorph - 13; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 14; Breath weapon - 16; 
Spells - 15. 

Spells per level: 5/3/1/ -. 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Animal friendship, call lightning, cure 
light wounds, detect snares and pits, 
entangle, flame blade, invisibility to ani 
mals, obscurement, shillelagh. 

Special abilities: +2 on saves vs. 
fire and lightning; identify plant, ani 
mal, pure water; pass without trace. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Leather armor, quarterstaff, four 
throwing daggers, sling, 20 sling bul 
lets, light war horse (AC 7, MV 24") hp 
6), saddle and tack, large sack, one 
week's provisions, water skin, bowls, 
two small boxes of mistletoe, holly, etc. 

Manfred Arbustle is a young fellow, 
who looks even younger with his boy 
ish freckles. His hair is sandy brown, 
his eyes blue, and he likes best to wear 
olive or brown hooded robes over his 
leather armor. His weapon of choice, a 
quarterstaff that also serves as walking 
staff, is hardly more than an uncured 


sapling - appropriately reflecting Man 
fred's status, perhaps. 

This druid joined the Company only 
about a year ago, replacing the retiring 
elven mage/thief, Mirthal Aendryr. 
Manfred is Arkaneus Silvermane's 
apprentice; he was adopted into the 
Company of Eight chiefly on account of 
his mentor's words of praise. He shows 
a lot of promise and eagerness, but has 
yet to decisively prove himself. 

Manfred's position in the Company of 
Eight is, from his perspective, uncom 
fortable. Manfred is quite insecure; he 
hasn't quite found a niche for himself 
among the Company members. He does 
not wish to be simply Silvermane's 
apprentice, nor does he enjoy feeling 
like a junior member, almost a child, on 
account of his relative lack of experi 
ence. This is why the diminutive nick 
name, "Manny," which everyone uses, 
grates on him so much. It makes him 
feel like he's on the level of the children 
who tag along after the Company 
whenever they pass through a village. 

In his desire to prove himself, Manny 
is wont to be overeager, experimental, 
even reckless at times. But still, he is all 
too aware of his inadequacies; while he 
could hold his own against a few 
humanoids, he does not nearly 
approach the skill level of any other 
Company member. Being suspended 
between his eagerness and his insecuri 
ties causes Manfred sometimes to act 
sullen or rebellious. It is tragic that 
sometime, faced with an important 
task, his eagerness, or even his sense of 
duty, may succumb to a poor self- 
image. 

Manfred is, naturally, very close to his 
mentor, Arkaneus. He is devotedly loyal 
to the older druid, and trusts him abso 
lutely, though he may act as if this were 
not the case, for the sake of proving to 
himself that he is more than Silver 
mane's shadow. Manny also thinks 
highly of the elf, Sylvanus, and hopes to 
become better friends with him; he is a 
great admirer of elvenkind for their 
ability to coexist with nature. 

He gets along well with most of the 
rest of the party, though they do make 


him a little bit uncomfortable (especial 
ly the seemingly invincible Tardeth). 

The one person Manfred trusts least 
of all is the "Calishite witch," Lawantha. 
His family in Velen imbued him with a 
prejudice against foreigners, especially 
Calishites; his father as a youth was cap 
tured by pirates and sold into slavery in 
Calimshan. Besides of this automatic 
distrust, Manny thinks Lawantha is 
arrogant, condescending, and very arti 
ficial. Unfortunately, he also finds her 
very attractive, and he is jealous of the 
fact that she has studied the flora of his 
home peninsula even more than he. 

Manfred became a druid on account 
of his great love of nature; this love sus 
tains him throughout the trials and trib 
ulations of proving himself. Whenever 
he feels stressed, he finds great relief 
by going alone into the forest to be with 
nature, absorbing himself in fascina 
tion with its countless wonders. 

Mar)Lyn HMiesdoujhi 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 69 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 3/2 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
llth-Level Human Fighter 
S:16 1:12 W:16 D:14 C:14 CH:12 

Home city or country: Castle 
Tethyr, Tethyr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Elvish, Dwarf, Orcish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Broad 
sword (specialization), composite bow, 
battle-ax, dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Bowyer/fletcher, horse riding, 
healing. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
7; Petrification/polymorph - 8; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 9; Breath weapon - 8; 
Spells - 10. 


122 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


Magical items and equipment: 

Scale mail +3, large shield +3, dancing 
broad sword +3, potion of extra heal 
ing, ring of swimming, broad sword, 
composite short bow, two quivers, 30 
arrows, 10 silver-tipped arrows, battle- 
ax, dagger, light war horse (AC 7, MV 
24", hp 9), saddle and tack, saddlebags, 
three large sacks, two weeks' rations, 
two water skins, three torches, lantern, 
tent, bedroll. 

Of noble blood, Marilyn Haresdown 
was originally destined to be a lady-in- 
waiting in Castle Tethyr. She was much 
more interested in horses, archery, and 
swordplay than courtly matters and 
husband-seeking, however. Against her 
family's desires, she ended up with an 
officer's commission in the army of 
Tethyr rather than a noble's wedding 
band. She was a successful leader, well 
respected, and a skilled fighter. After a 
couple of years, she married a fellow 
officer, Dorian Haresdown. 

Unfortunately, not long thereafter, 
came the fall of Castle Tethyr. Marilyn 
managed to escape the carnage; her 
husband, Dorian, was not so fortunate. 
As she fled to the northeast, Marilyn 
found little comfort in the knowledge 
that her love had died loyally defending 
his king. 

For about three years, Marilyn adven 
tured in the region of Cormyr and Sem- 
bia, and even visited Shadowdale. 
There she made the acquaintance of 
Elminster and his scribe, Lhaeo, and 
she related to them the tale of what had 
befallen the kingdom of Tethyr. They 
also discussed what might be the 
present state and the future of the 
country. 

This conversation was a turning point 
for Marilyn. Afterward, she was deter 
mined to return to her homeland, there 
to attempt to right the wrongs of 
treachery in the last dynasty. She found 
that Tethyr had calmed quite a bit from 
the "Ten Black Days of Eleint," when she 
had left; still, there was much chaos. Six 
years ago, she quite readily joined the 
Company of Eight, to which she was 
introduced by a former fellow officer, 
Jordy Galium of Mosstone, a friend of 


Tardeth Llanistaph. 

Marilyn's overriding concern is the 
restructuring of Tethyr - which is only 
understandable, since the dissolution of 
the old dynasty claimed the lives of 
most of her relatives, friends, and 
comrades-in-arms. She is almost cer 
tainly the person in the Company of 
Eight most devoted to the reunification 
of Tethyr. What she would like to see is 
a new dynasty - hopefully with blood 
ties to the old, for legitimacy. The Com 
pany, she believes, must serve to facili 
tate the establishment of a new, single, 
just government over Tethyr. 

Of course, not everyone in the com 
pany agrees with her; Sylvanus Moon- 
drop has the most different political 
views, and the two often are at odds. 
Fortunately, all members agree that the 
group's cohesiveness and cooperation 
are paramount, and they are willing to 
restrain their own wishes and political 
convictions before the decisions are 
reached by the whole party. (Naturally 
this doesn't preclude a great deal of 
heated debate.) 

Blonde, green-eyed Marilyn is a very 
active, energetic character. She is still 
very fond of horse riding and archery, 
and she likes to fashion her own bows 
and arrows, with greatest care and 
expertise. 

Her closest friend in the Company is 
Lawantha, the Calishite sorceress. They 
share, among other things, a great 
interest in medicinal herbs. Often the 
two take long walks together, talking 
and collecting plants. Marilyn prefers 
the open plains of southern Tethyr to 
the forest where the Company is based, 
but she has come to appreciate the for 
est more and more through what she 
has learned from the other Company 
members. 

TAtideVn LLaNteTapb 

ARMOR CLASS: 5 or 0 (see below) 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 100 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2/1 

(5/2 with specialization) 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 


spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use and see 
below 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
15th-Level Human Ranger 
S:18/23 1:15 W:16 D:13 C:17 CH:14 

Home city or country: Ithmong, 
Tethyr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Thorass, Elvish, Halfling. 

Weapon proficiencies: Long 
sword (specialization), longbow, spear, 
dagger, light crossbow. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Horse riding, animal handling, 
animal lore, blind-fighting, direction 
sense, fire building, weather sense. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
2; Petrification/polymorph - 2; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 3; Breath weapon - 2; 
Spells - 4. 

Spells per level: Druid - 2/2/-; 
magic-user - 2/2/ - . 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Druid - Cure light wounds, pass with 
out trace, reflecting pool, speak with 
animals. Magic-user - Invisibility, mag 
ic missile, protection from evil, read 
magic. 

Special abilities: +15 damage vs. 
giant-class monsters; surprise foes 3 in 
6; surprised on 1 in 6; can use scrying 
magical items; hacking. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Ring of protection +3, chain mail +4, 
"The Scales of Justice" (intelligent 
sword - see below), spear +1, amulet 
vs. undead, 13 arrows +1, six arrows 
+3, arrow of dragon slaying, arrow of 
giant slaying, longbow, large shield, 
quiver, 10 arrows, nine silver-tipped 
arrows, dagger, medium war horse (AC 
7, MV 18") hp 12), light crossbow, case 
of 20 bolts, 50' rope, saddle and saddle 
bags, two water skins, wineskin, flint 
and tinder, tent, spellbook. 

Tall, broad-shouldered, handsome 
Tardeth appears the archetypical 
mighty hero, and many people would 


123 

















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


regard him as such. He is indeed power 
ful, honorable, and just, but not with 
out flaws. 

Of the eight original members of the 
Company, only Tardeth remains. This is 
a result both of his devotion to the 
causes the Company espouses and of 
the fact that the Company runs quite 
smoothly under the ranger's implicit 
leadership. These two points are widely 
recognized, but in addition, Tardeth has 
a very personal reason for his total 
devotion to the Company and its 
endeavors. 

This personal reason is wrapped up 
in the identity and fate of the mysteri 
ous "eighth companion." One can't help 
but notice that the famed Company of 
Eight has but seven members. Tardeth 
will quickly explain that this is a bit of 
superstition: seven is a lucky number, 
and the eighth spot is kept for "The 
Lady of Truth and Justice," who symbol 
izes the whole point of the Company's 
existence (as Tardeth sees it). 

While that isn't untrue, it fails to con 
vey the whole story. At its inception, the 
Company did have eight members. Tar- 
deth's older brother, Alain Llanistaph, 
was the man who really gathered 
together the group in the first place. He 
believed that the Company needed to 
be more than a fraternity of monster- 
bashers; it needed to take a role in shap 
ing the future of Tethyr and caring for 
its people's welfare. 

Tragically, Alain was the first member 
of the Company to die, and barely a 
year after the group's creation. Equally 
tragic, it was not a necessary death, nor 
was it even directly for Tethyr's wel 
fare; in fact, Alain was killed while try 
ing to undo mistakes made by his young 
and (at the time) somewhat careless 
brother, Tardeth. Three beings wit 
nessed the death and understood the 
blame that was Tardeth's: Tardeth him 
self, Alain's intelligent sword (see 
below), and the late half-elven druidess, 
Kaleene Thalwood. 

Kaleene ascended to leadership of the 
Company. She didn't deepen Tardeth's 
wound by explaining the situation to 
the rest of the Company, but she did 


support Tardeth's wish that Alain not 
be replaced in the Company's ranks. 

The druidess met her own end hardly 
a year later, and the ranks were replen 
ished by the addition of the druid, Arka- 
neus Silvermane. Tardeth became the 
Company leader, and has been ever 
since. 

The empty eighth spot serves as a 
constant reminder to Tardeth of his 
own faults and weaknesses, and the 
gravity of his mission. He has almost 
single-mindedly devoted himself to his 
brother's ideals, as if doing so could 
change the fact of Alain's senseless 
death; at the least, Tardeth can find 
comfort in trying to do for Tethyr what 
Alain would have done (though, he 
fears, Alain would have done it better). 

The whole issue remains a major psy 
chological scar and weakness for Tar 
deth. There is no living person with 
whom Tardeth discusses the matter. 
The only way he eases his conscience is 
to devote himself more and more to 
Alain's goals. 

Someone who pries to closely into the 
identity of the eighth companion could 
soon alienate Tardeth; the same would 
befall someone inquiring much about 
the ranger's family. He says only that he 
had a brother, but no one of his immedi 
ate family still lives. The Company is his 
family now. 

Also, Tardeth is unusually possessive 
of his sword (formerly Alain's), which 
he calls "The Scales of Justice." This 
intelligent blade, a long sword +3 (Neu 
tral Good, INT 15, Ego 8, detect traps, 
magic; heals once/day; speaks Neutral 
Good and Common), belonged to Alain, 
and witnessed his death. The man and 
sword understand each other well. 
Once, long ago, Tardeth became men 
tally unstable as a result of difficulty in 
dealing with guilt over his brother's 
death. Fortunately, " Scales " recognized 
what was happening, and took control 
of his possessor. It prevented a major 
catastrophe for the Company. Since 
then, Tardeth has come to rely on Scales 
as a sort of security blanket should such 
an event again occur. 

None of the current members of the 


Company know the true history of the 
eighth member. Arkaneus Silvermane 
knew of Alain, and suspects that he 
once was in the company. He has 
hypothesized to himself that Tardeth 
had something to do with Alain's no 
longer being with the Company, but is 
tactful enough never to have brought 
up the issue. 

Tardeth normally wears leather and a 
ring of protection +3; if he expects to 
engage in combat, he dons his suit of 
chain mail +4. He is proficient and 
comfortable with a number of weapons 
(note especially his longbow and magic 
arrows), but always prefers to use 
Scales. 

The ranger is affable and optimistic 
(but not overly sol, belying the internal 
doubts and turmoil that he has almost 
even hidden from himself. In maintain 
ing the group, he has always sought a 
balance of regions, races, and tempera 
ments as well as skills among the com 
panions. 

Tardeth is on good terms with every 
one in the group. He sees much poten 
tial in Manny, whom he thinks may lead 
the "next generation" of the Company; 
Lawantha and Arkaneus have taught 
him magical spells and druidic lore, 
respectively, and so forth. 

Politically unlike Marilyn, Tardeth 
does not see himself so much as a build 
er; but neither does he adopt Moon- 
drop's vision of Tethyr politics. Tardeth 
is more certain of what he doesn't want 
-namely, tyrants such as Ernest Gal- 
lowglass of Ithmong. If a decent monar 
chy could be set up, Tardeth would lend 
it his support; but in the meantime, he 
thinks he is more than busy fighting 
injustice and trying to keep Tethyr from 
slipping into total chaos. 


124 














































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


Sylvius Mooudrzop 

ARMOR CLASS: 0 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 36 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

(2/1 with specialization) 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Wood Elven Fighter 
S:15 1:13 W:13 D:17 C:14 CH:16 

Home city or country: Forest of 
Tethir. 

Languages: Elvish, Common, Neu 
tral, Treant, Woodland Mammals. 

Weapon proficiencies: Long 
sword, longbow (specialization), short 
sword, dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Horse riding, hunting. 

Saving throws Paralysis/poison - 

10; Petrification/polymorph - 11; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 12; Breath weapon - 12; 
Spells - 13. 

Special abilities: 90% resistance to 
sleep and charm; +1 to hit with bow, 
short sword, long sword; 60' infra 
vision; find secret, concealed doors; 
move silently. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Longbow +2, long sword +1, boots of 
speed, eight arrows +2, two arrows 
+4, potion of fire giant strength, stone 
of good luck, ring of regeneration, 
splint mail, large shield, two quivers, 20 
arrows, 10 silver-tipped arrows, dag 
ger, short sword, light war horse (AC 7, 
MV 24", hp 13), saddle and tack, saddle 
bags, one weeks provisions, two water 
skins, 50' rope, small chest. 

Sylvanus Moondrop, a wood elf of the 
Elmanesse tribe, has been a member of 
the Company of Eight for six years. Pri 
or to joining, he adventured in Tethyr 
and some of northern Calimshan. In 
Tethyr, he is most familiar with the cen 
tral and southern portions of the Forest 
of Tethir, and the Trade Way. In Calim 


shan, Sylvanus twice braved the Forest 
of Mir in assaults on drow holdings. 

Moondrop is not unusual in appear 
ance, among wood elves of the Realms. 
He is tall and slender, and his copper 
hair frames a long, smooth-skinned 
face, also of coppery hue; the shadows 
in his face and hair seem to have a 
green tint, but perhaps that is only 
from the startling verdance of his eyes. 

Sylvanus is unusually gregarious for a 
wood elf. He enjoys meeting people of 
all backgrounds, and he is delighted by 
the diversity he finds in the world. He 
enjoys Paddy's company best of those in 
the Company, and loves to plot jokes 
with the halfling. 

Though ambivalent on most issues, 
Moondrop is unusually vocal and 
unyielding on the the question of Tethy- 
r's political future. He does not wish to 
see a reunited Tethyr, under the rule of 
Ithmong or any other city. Rather, he 
desires a balance of city-states in a weak 
alliance. The "city-states" would include 
the human cities and the non-human 
lands - specifically, the elven 
Elmanesse tribe of the Forest of Tethir, 
and the half lings of the Purple Hills. 
These states would not only cooperate 
to mutual advantage, but would serve 
to check and balance each others' 
power. The duty of the Company of 
Eight, according to the elf, is to see that 
the balance is maintained, by keeping 
tabs on goings-on and taking action 
when necessary (as may be the case 
with Ernest Gallowglass of Ithmong), 
without too much interference in each 
city-state's business. 

Archery is one of Moondrop's favor 
ite activities, and this actually helps the 
group get along. Though he vehement 
ly disagrees with Marilyn Haresdown in 
the political arena, and neither is will 
ing to compromise his or her views 
(their "discussions" too often too quick 
ly become shouting contests), Sylvanus 
does deeply respect her talent in fash 
ioning bows and arrows; and she, in 
turn, respects his skill in their use. 

When not involved in Company mat 
ters, Sylvanus can often be found trav 
eling the forest, especially along the 


Trade Way. There, he and elven friends, 
and sometimes Paddy Stoutfellow, 
make sport by playing vigilantes and 
driving away bandits who try to harass 
travelers. This has done much to 
increase Moondrop's personal renown, 
as well as, indirectly, that of the Compa 
ny of Eight. 

UcDANtha S)LewdU 

ARMOR CLASS: -1 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 33 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 

spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
12th-Level Human Magic-User 
S:9 1:17 W:15 D:16 C:13 CH:16 

Home city or country: Calimport, 
Calimshan. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Elvish, Dwarf, Halfling, Orcish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Quarter- 
staff, dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Horse riding, swimming, fun 
gus identification, sound analysis, rope 
use, healing. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
8; Petrification/polymorph - 6; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 4; Breath weapon - 8; 
Spells - 5. 

Spells per level: 4/4/4/4/4/1/-. 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Conjure elemental, dimension door, fly, 
hold monster, ice storm, invisibility 10' 
radius, knock, lightning bolt, magic mis 
sile x 2, mirror image, polymorph other, 
polymorph self, protection from nor 
mal missiles, read magic, sleep, stinking 
cloud, stone to flesh, telekinesis, tele 
port, wizard lock. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Cloak of protection +3, wand of light 
ning bolts (43 chargess), dagger +2, 
bracers of defense AC 4, potion of 


125 














































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


green dragon control, scroll of protec 
tion from undead, scroll of protection 
from demons, ring of air elemental con 
trol, crystal ball, gem of seeing, quarter- 
staff, four daggers, light war horse (AC 
7, MV 24") hp 9), saddle and tack, sad 
dlebags, tent, bedroll, two weeks' provi 
sions, three water skins, wineskin, 
spellbooks. 

Lawantha is a Calishite sorceress who 
has been with the Company of Eight for 
four years. Her predecessor, one Thiel 
Ralmun, was also a Calishite mage - 
her cousin, in fact. He was slain when 
the Company was leading the over 
throw of the former tyrant of Ithmong. 
Lawantha came to Tethyr to recover 
her cousin's body and bring it home to 
Calimport for burial. The Company 
escorted her on this journey, and on the 
way, they faced numerous perils. 
Lawantha was impressed by the Com 
pany's skill, spirit and cohesiveness; and 
the company members, looking for an 
addition to their ranks, were impressed 
by the Calishite sorceress's prowess 
and loyalty to her family. After Thiel 
Ralmun's proper burial, Lawantha was 
invited to take his place, and she accept 
ed. 

Lawantha has proven herself with 
the group. Tardeth and Marilyn have 
become closest to her and understand 
her best; but the sorceress is sometimes 
a source of tension for other group 
members, particularly the young and 
somewhat xenophobic druid, Manny. 
There is some feeling that Silendia is a 
mercenary foreigner, not at all person 
ally devoted to the cause of Tethyr's 
welfare. It is true, Lawantha is some 
what distanced by her nationality, but 
she is fiercely loyal to the group. She 
recognizes any matter of importance to 
the group - be it Tethyr's welfare or 
anything else - as being, by associa 
tion, of importance to her, even if she 
may personally be somewhat disinter 
ested. It is regrettable that, in a typical 
Calishite manner, she usually fails to 
hide such disinterest. 

Fortunately, most members of the 
group have come to understand this 
woman, to recognize her basic benevo 


lence and loyalty. The person who 
understands her least is Manfred 
Arbustle, the Company's youngest and 
newest member. Manfred often thinks 
of Lawantha as an arrogant, conde 
scending foreigner who must only be in 
the Company to show off her talent for 
magic, if not for some unknown, sinis 
ter end. Lawantha is unaware of Man 
fred's hostility (tinged, as is typical of 
such feelings, with a smattering of jeal 
ousy), and unaware that her frequent 
use of his nickname, "Manny," which 
seems to her a gesture of camaraderie, 
only makes her appear all the more 
condescending in his eyes. 

Before she joined the Company, 
Lawantha had traveled and adventured 
far and wide, but most intensively in 
her native Calimshan. The Spider 
Swamp's secrets have particularly 
intrigued her, especially its botany: A 
number of useful herbs and fungi are 
apparently unique to that region of 
Faerun. Should contacts in the area 
ever be necessary, Lawantha has good 
friends living in both Almraiven and 
Volothamp. (Also, it may be noted, she 
comes from a large family of merchants 
that has scattered across Calimshan in 
pursuit of business; she could probably 
find a close relative in any major 
Calishite city.) 

Tethyr was also a place in which 
Lawantha had traveled; in fact, she had 
met most members of the Company 
when visiting her late cousin, Thiel 
Ralmun. Her explorations in Tethyr 
focused especially on the peninsula for 
est, where the many varieties of fungi 
and their related slimes and molds 
attracted her scholarly interest. The 
same interest in fungi frequently brings 
Lawantha to Brost's "mushroom coun 
try," to the north of the Forest of Tethir. 

As a naturalist, Lawantha is most 
interested in all sorts of fungi and 
medecinal herbs; she is very knowl 
edgeable in the identification and uses 
of both. She also has experience with 
the dogs of Brost that are trained to 
sniff out particular mushrooms. 


AfclcANeus S)lveRfruNe 

ARMOR CLASS: 8 
MOVE: 12" Hit Points: 69 
NO OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type or 
spell 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Spell use 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 
SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
12th-Level Human Druid 

Home city or country: Mosstone, 
Tethyr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral, 
Druid, Centaur, Dryad, Elvish, Gnome, 
Hill Giant, Lizardman, Manticore, 
Sprite, Treant, Green Dragon, Halfling, 
Dwarfish. 

Weapon proficiencies: Staff, dag 
ger, hammer. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Healing, weather sense, animal 
handling, horse riding. 

Saving throws: Paralysis/poison - 
6; Petrification/polymorph - 9; Rod/ 
staff/wand - 10; Breath weapon - 12; 
Spells - 11. 

Spells per level: 7/7/5/5/3/2/1. 

Spells commonly memorized: 

Animal friendship, animal summoning 
I, call lightning, ceremony conjure fire 
elemental, create water, cure disease, 
cure critical wounds, cure light 
wounds, cure serious wounds, creep 
ing doom, detect magic, detect snares 
and pits, dispel magic, entangle, fire 
trap, flame blade, good berry, heat 
metal, insect plague, invisibility to ani 
mals, know alignment, moonbeam, 
neutralize poison, plant door, speak 
with animals, speak with plants, tree, 
wall of fire, warp wood. 

Special abilities: +2 on saves vs. 
fire and lightning; identify plant, ani 
mal, pure water; immune to woodland 
charm; shape change thrice/day. 

Magical items and equipment: 
Staff of the Woodlands +2 (37 charges), 
leather armor, six throwing daggers, 
hammer, medium war horse (AC 7, MV 


126 













































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


18") hp 12), saddle and tack, saddle 
bags, three water skins, silver sickle, 
bowls, five small boxes with oak, mistle 
toe, holly, etc. 

The oldest human among the com 
panions, Arkaneus also has seniority in 
the group second only to that of Tar- 
deth. As a full druid of 12th level, he is 
also one of the most formidable charac 
ters in this group of adventurers. In 
spite of this, the aged druid takes a sur 
prisingly low-key role; he sits back qui 
etly as the fireworks fly between 
Marilyn and Sylvanus, for example, 
rarely intervening, and then subtly 
coaxing the two into a compromise. 

Patient Arkaneus takes this approach 
to all of life. Nature always works itself 
out, he believes; his role as a druid is to 
see that it is allowed to do so. 

As a druid of name level, Silvermane 
has three lesser druids as attendants, all 
of them initiates of the First Circle. Two 
of them, Leisha and Thastrun, are a 
married couple. They do not adventure 
at all; instead, they are devoted to the 
care of Cayr Thai wood and the sur 
rounding woods. 

The third attendant might be more 
suitably termed an apprentice. This is 
Manfred Arbustle, who has himself 
become a member of the Company of 
Eight. Arkaneus has a great deal of faith 
in and hope for his young apprentice - 
probably more than Manny has for 
himself. But Arkaneus realizes this as 
well, and believes that Manny will in 
fact have to prove to himself what he 
can make of his life. 

Many human issues - say, politics - 
receive a sort of ambivalence from 
Arkaneus; or at least he isn't devoted 
fanatically to single points of view 
(except of course the protection of 
nature; but even here he is more willing 
than most of his profession to tolerate 
short-term abuse, believing it all balanc 
es out). He is a cool, rational decision 
maker, without emotional attachment 
to many issues. For this reason, Tardeth 
relies heavily upon him for advice and 
wise guidance. 

Arkaneus is quite devoted to the Com 
pany (were he not, he hardly would 


have given it 11 years of his life). He 
does not have the personal, passionate 
devotion of Tardeth or Marilyn; nor is 
he as flippant as Paddy. The druid 
believes that chaos in Tethyr would be 
as bad as a rigid system of law; there 
fore, his service to the Company of 
Eight is in effect service to balance and 
true neutrality in Tethyr's present, 
near-anarchic state. Besides this "ideo 
logical" reason, Arkaneus feels that the 
Company's devotion to justice is noble 
and worthy, and he appreciates the 
good the Company has done for the 
Forest of Tethir (counteracting rampag 
ing monsters, bandits, etc.). And, 
finally, he feels deep bonds with the 
others in the group as friends. 

Another close associate of Arkaneus, 
outside the Company, is the half-elf 
Tethirmin, arch-druid of Mosstone, 
who was the human druid's mentor so 
many decades ago. Tethirmin has made 
it clear that Arkaneus could be his suc 
cessor, but Arkaneus would be hesitant 
to become arch-druid, in spite of the 
power and prestige it entails. With its 
advantages would come many obliga 
tions, and these would be hard to rec 
oncile with continued service in the 
Company of Eight. 

Arkaneus' real wish for the future is 
to see Manny rise and eventually be 
able to take his mentor's place as druid, 
allowing Arkaneus to retire - to be full 
time caretaker of Cayr Thalwood, to 
live as a hermit elsewhere in the Forest 
of Tethir, or perhaps to go and serve the 
great druid. 

Paddy StouTfellou) 

ARMOR CLASS: 4 
MOVE: 12" 

Hit Points: 44 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below 

SIZE: S 

ALIGNMENT: Neutral Good 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Sixth-Level Halfling Fighter 


Sixth-Level Thief 
S:ll 1:10 W:14 D:15 C:16 CH:8 

Home city or country: The Purple 
Hills, Tethyr. 

Languages: Common, Neutral 
Good, Halfling, Elvish, Gnomish, Goblin, 
Dwarf, Orcish, Thieves' Cant. 

Weapon proficiencies: Broad 
sword (specialization), light crossbow, 
dagger. 

Non-weapon proficiencies/ 
skills: Horse riding, alertness, fishing, 
rope use. 

Saving throws Paralysis/poison - 

11/7; Petrification/polymorph - 11; 
Rod/staff/wand - 8; Breath weapon - 
13; Spells - 9. 

Thieves' abilities (leather 
armor/elfin chain): Pick pockets 
60%/40%, locks 52%/47%, find/remove 
traps 50%/45%, move silently 57%/ 
47%, hide 52%/42%, hear noise 25%/ 
20%, climb walls 77%/57%, read 
languages 25 % / 25 %. 

Special abilities: +4 on saving 
throws vs. rod/staff/wand, spells, poi 
son; infravision 60'; detect slopes, move 
silently. 

Magical items and equipment: 

Broad sword +2 (green dragon slayer), 
five bolts +1, five bolts +2, five bolts 
+3, elfin chain mail, light crossbow, 
two cases, 15 bolts, 10 silver-tipped 
bolts, four daggers, pony (AC 7, MV 
12", hp 7), saddle and tack, saddlebags, 
tent, bedroll, two weeks' provisions, 
two water skins, spare leather armor, 
thieves' tools. 

Black-haired, bushy-sideburned Pad 
dy Stoutfellow is the clown of the Com 
pany of Eight. Besides being a valuable 
member in himself, his irreverent sense 
of humor serves a very important func 
tion in helping the party coexist 
smoothly and putting matters in per 
spective. And being annoyed by Paddy's 
friendly mockery can take one's mind 
off more serious worries, a most wel 
come break. 

Paddy likes everyone in the group, 
but they're almost always too serious. 
He never misses a chance to point this 
out teasingly. Tardeth is too busy and 


127 















































ADVENTURING BROTHERHOODS 


worried about the welfare of the Com 
pany and Tethyr; Manny is too self- 
conscious; Marilyn is obsessed with the 
reestablishment of a kingdom over 
Tethyr; Lawantha appears stuffy on 
account of her Calishite manners and 
mannerisms. Arkaneus is pretty 
decent, but a little old and wrapped up 
in religion. Paddy gets along best with 
Sylvanus (though this does not spare 
the elf any ribbing); they are the two 
non-humans in the group, and both 
have very different perspectives on all 
the matters with which the humans are 
obsessed. 

Though Paddy is very cheerful, light 
hearted, and incessantly making sport 
of his companions and their worries, he 
is an uncompromisingly loyal group 


member. This is not out of devotion to 
any particular cause, or some vague 
ideal of loyalty and honor, but simply 
because the members of the Company 
are his friends. And, all lighthearted 
ness aside, friends are what Paddy val 
ues most, and he stands by them. 

More than anyone else in the group, 
Paddy is here for adventure. He joined 
just over two years ago, hoping that 
he'd find thrills and excitement, stories 
to share with his grandchildren back in 
the Purple Hills a few decades down the 
line. 

Paddy has never been particularly 
involved in politics; he is not sure 
whether a reunited kingdom, like Mari 
lyn wants, or something more like a 
confederation, as Moondrop envisions, 


would best suit Tethyr. The Purple Hills 
halflings will probably go along with 
whatever emerges, if it promises 
greater stability, security, and prosper 
ity. These three things are Paddy's long 
term goals as well; as to how to reach 
them, he's still undecided. 

Stoutfellow is fond of drinking and 
games of chance, but rarely to excess. 
Thieving is his favorite game of chance, 
but here, too, he is careful. He is not 
greedy, just thrill-seeking. He would 
much prefer to attempt a difficult job 
for an almost worthless item - say, to 
steal the handkerchief of the Meisarch 
of Amn - over an easy burglary with 
great profit. And he is always more 
than happy to use (and show off) his tal 
ents for the party's benefit. 


128 
















































Hall of Heroes 


TheFORGO! 1 LlI\ HKAI.ms(tm) fantasy world has been Hie: situ of 
many great adventures and home to countless valiant heroes 
Htif! infamous villains. Many ? mle ni derring-do has been 
recounted in novels like I he Mtmoshae trilogy by Douglas Niles, 
'F'hiftlrystalfShmrH by It, A, Salvatore, Axtuif Iltmtis bv Kate Novak 
and Jeff Grubb, and Spefifire by Ed Greenwood (ereaiur nf the 
FORGOTl'LN lILAtMli fantasy world). 

Until now, thecliaraddrs fmm these FORGOTTEN REALMS nov 
els have been unavailable to rtlMi.lT-' game players, flat no lunger: 

HaN nf furors provides complete histories and AD&D game 
siaiislii'h fur such beloved cliamelers us Hminster, the greatest 
sags: and magic user of the Realms, Tristan Kendrick and Robyn 
or Hit: Moon,shat: isles, VVnlfgar the Barbarian, IJrizzt the dark elf, 
and Bruenor Hit: dwarf, all from the northern reaches, plus Alias 
anti Dragon bail, Shandril and N'urm Thmarnfth # and many mnn:. 

3 hit i he Hall of Hcrars is mure I ban a listing of garms statistics: 
It's also a sourcebook describing (among other things) artificial 
hi id magical I i reforms ul' the Realms, as well as the lives uf tin: 
world's elves, dwarves, lizardmen, and erotic creatures. 

tVhutever your interest in the niRGOTTEM REALMS cam 
paign soiling, you'll find much to entertain and intrigue you ill 
this Volume. 


TSH, I rue 
I'Uli 7!slt 
t CJrnovw, 
VVI f.J I -17 UHA 


I-ill I 

ADVANCED UUHQEawss nRA<M*|5. ADae FOFWJOTTEH REALMS. PHOLHJCT5 OF TOCFIIMA-GINATION, 
Jim-Hit THH Iflga .IK, |r*r1(,|Y,fl.VEi Owned by TSfl, Inc, 


"'ISHiSITSli. t.ic. All Iti^hl^ Reserved. 
lYluird In tin- r.s.A. 

TSEt I .Id. 

1211 c:lu4n:li Knd, Cherry lliuinn 
fVm?bridge CbJ ituv 
United kingdom 


isisa o-fisnas-ri i ~i 



J10.B5 tr.s. 




























